

XIV NO. 44 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
''Hogs'' of Holy Cross Hall return for dorm reunion 
By FINN PRESSLY /\.ssistant News Editor 
Gathering to celebrate the spirit of their former dorm, over a hundred Notre Dame alums met in the basement of St. Joseph Hall Friday. They came together to remember the memory of a different lakeside landmark. Holy Cross I-tall. which. until its demolition in 1991, housed one of Notre Dame's most unique residential communities. 
"The reunion was terrific as usual," said Drew 
Danik ·75 llolv Cross' unofficial reunion coordina­
tor. "We had i.{bout 120 people form the hall, but 
with guests and children we had around 200 peo­
ple." 
Holy Cross Hall was located on what is today 



known as Ilolv Cross Hill -a raised area between the lakes ofte"n used as a staging ground for bon­The men of Holy Cross Hall returned to campus

fires. This weekend was the seventh reunion for the Holy Cross Hogs. this weekend to celebrate, reminisce, and Danik said that the size and location of Holy Cross 
remember their former home. The returnees 
helped create a close dorm community. "It was small dorm, so everybody knew everybody. gathered for a group picture (above) and shared And although we don't have fraternities at Notre 
mementos of the "building by the lake" (right). 
Dame ... it was actually pretty close to being frat. It was built as a seminary, so we had a basketball Holy Cross Hall was torn down in 1991 after court, softball field and our own kitchen," he said. 
being part of Notre Dame's campus for 

"The guys got real close because we were so far out there. You got back from class, and you pretty much over 100 years. stayed there." 
Because Holy Cross was so far removed from the center of campus. it was also the cheapest to live in, before the University adopted uniform pricing for 
.

the residence halls. "It was all the guys who didn't have money," said photos by 
SARAH FUCHS see REUNION/page 4 
CAMPAIGN 2000 


Bush brings campaign to help swing Michiana votes 
Ghosts under the Dome 
Check out the favorite "haunts" at Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Scene . page 12 

THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
lies not in its halls of govern­

ByANNE-MARIE MATTINGLY 
ment, but in the hearts of people

News Editor 
that care about a neighbor." 
If elected, his administration 

With more than 1,000 GOP would not dodge unpopular supporters waving Bush-Cheney issues, Bush said. signs and chanting his name, 
"The role of a leader is to set Republican presidential candi­
clear priorities, not to try to be date George W. 
all things for all people. The role Bush distanced See of a leader is to tackle the tough himself from also: problems before they become Democratic can-acute," he said, noting that he didate Al Gore Election was addressing such problems in Friday by empha-coverage, the campaign against the advice 
sizing his belief in of other Republicans. "Now is 
returning the page 6 
the time, folks, to get leadership powers of gov­in Washington that won't duck ernment to the the tough issues, but that will hands of the people. solve the tough issues on behalf 
In an 11-minute campaign of the people of this country. And speech, Bush touched on issues 
now is the time to have an 

ranging from Social Security to 
administration that trusts the taxes to education, reiterating 
people, not the federal govern­

with each comment that he, ment." unlike Gore, has confidence in Among the toughest of those the nation's citizens. issues is Social Security, he said. 
"(Al Gore] trusts the govern­
Bush said the new administra­ment. He thinks that tion must rescue the ailing pro­Washington, D.C., is the place 
gram, but that the solution for all wisdom. That's what we 
should not be that the federal know differently," he said. "We government collects all money, 
trust the people. We know the but instead that citizens should 
great strength of America lies in be given the option to responsi­thn hearts and souls of the 
bly invest the money set aside American people. We know the great strength of this country see AIRPORT/page 6 
Blocking the Falcons 
Notre Dame pulled out an overtime victory over Air Force 34-31 Saturday. 
See Irish Insider 


doesn't try to be all things to led. We will," Bush said. 
. Bush cites need 
all people," he said. "Our pri­Although Bush declared thefor Social Security orities are best described by United States' military strong reform what we want to do with the and capable, be also surplus." expressed his desire to con­Bush cited Social Security tinue a "legacy of peace"
By KATE NAGENGAST 
and Medicare reform, mili­without excessive military
Assistant News Editor 
tary spending, education and presence. 
tax relief as his priorities for "The role of the a leader is 
Standing before an enthusi­spending the surplus. to anticipate problems ... astic crowd of supporters and "One of the differences Ours is a nation of peace a banner with the word between me and my oppo­makers, but not peace keep­"Responsibility" printed bold­nent is this," Bush said. "[Al ers around the world, " he ly across it, Republican presi­Gore] thinks the surplus said. "You can't be too many dential candidate George W. exists because of the ingenu­things to too many people." Bush spoke about his plans ity and hard work of the fed­The Texas governor also for spending the surplus and eral government. But the sur­opposed Gore's plans for "big his desire to restore integrity plus exists because of the government" through a dis­to the White House at Lake hard work and ingenuity of cussion of education reform Michigan College Friday. the American people." and tax relief. 
"We believe that in order to He spoke about his plans to Bush focused on more per­make sure America is hope­return the surplus to sonal plans for education to ful we must demonstrate a American citizens by allow­end the "achievement gap" responsibility era," said ing younger workers to man­and shift schools from Bush. "That means responsi­age their own money through process oriented evaluations ble leadership in Washington, Social Security reform. (placing students in classes 
D.C. That's what this nation As the crowd erupted into a by age) to skills oriented test­needs, a responsible leader "No more Gore!" chant, Bush ing (placing students in class­who sets clear goals and criticized the. Democratic es by abilities). 
works with people to achieve presidential candidate, Vice "We believe all school sys­those goals ... someone to go President Al Gore. tems should be locally con­to Washington and end parti­"As Vice President Gore trolled," said Bush. "I don't san division, the name call­himself said, 'You ain't seen want to be the federal super­ing, the ugliness. nothing yet!' [They've] had intendent of schools, but stu­
"A leader is somebody who their chance to reform sets their priorities and Medicare, but [they] haven't see BUSH/page 6 


Monday 

OCTOBER 30, 2000 
__________________________________ J 
Monday, October 30, 2000

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
IINSIDE COLUMN 

A vote for our future 
It is time for a much needed change. 

George W. Rush offers a fresh perspective for the future of the United States. He places more control in the hands of the American people, and promises to limit the power of the central !:overnment. 
As a "compassionate con­servative", George Bush nppeals to both Democrats and Republicans alike. We need a president in office like Bush, who is bi-parti­san and will work in the best interest of the American people. Bush has 


proven time and again dur­ing his tenure as the gover- Nate Phillips  
nor ofTexas that he will  
make decisions based on  
integrity, not politics.  Copy Editor  
Bush offers options for  
the American people.  He  
proposes a concrete solu­ 

tion to the social security dilemma, by placing surplus money back into the hands of the peo­ple, who can make their own future financial decisions. Also, Bush wants Americans to make their medical decisions by allowing them to choose their own health care providers. Finally, Bush wants parents to have a direct i:1fluence on the education of their children. 
Unlike opponent Al Gore, who is proposing selective tax cuts for those who meet certain acceptable criteria, Bush promises a tax cut for all American people. He is in favor of preserv­ing the stability of our armed forces, and thus preserving peace for the future. 
Through all of these changes, Bush promises to curb the political agendas of the Washington beaurocrats and place power back into the hands of the American people. 
That is democracy; and that is the foundation upon which Bush wants our nation to thrive. 
Finally, and perhaps most importantly, Bush will have the opportunity to appoint three Supreme Court justices. This could serve as a monumental decision in the protection of the rights of the unborn child. Bush has promised to appoint justices who strictly uphold the Constitutional right that all people are guaran­tned "life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness." If Gore is elected, he has vowed to appoint jus­tices who will protect abortion as a federally funded practice. As Christians, we cannot stand by and watch as unborn children are legally murdered in this country every day. 
Students and faculty of Notre Dame, this election contrasts candidates with very distinct views, who could change the future of our nation. Bush promises to give power back to the people. He will bring dignity, integrity and hope back to the presidency, by leading the United States not on partisan politics, but with the best intentions of the American people at heart. 
This is your chance. Take a stand. For your­s13lves, for your families, for your future, and for the entirety of the Unites States of America. On Nov. 7, vote George W. Bush for president. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily t11ose ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Finn Pressly Jackie Browder Nate Phillips 
Graphics 
Meg Daday Jose Cuellar 
Sports Production Kerry Smirh Noah Amstadtcr Viewpoint Lab Tech Lauren Beck Lisa Velrc: 

... he Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i, publi,hcd Monday through Friday ex,:ep! during exam anJ vac;4Cion periods. The Ol.servcr i, a member of the fu.sacia,ed Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Monday  Tuesday  
. Movie: "Mildred  . Movie: ··mack Cat,  
Pierce," 7 p.m., Snite  White Cat," 7 p.m.,  
Museum ofArt  Hesburgh Center  
. Lecture: "A Psycho­ Auditorium  
Social Perspective of  . Service: Eucharistic  
Democratic Change in  Adoration, 10 p.m., St.  
South Africa," 8 p.m.,  Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall  
Hesburgh Center  

Wednesday Thursday 
. Lecture: "Monty Python . Theater: "Lost in and the Mass: Medievalism Yonkers," 7:30 p.m., and the Middle Ages," 7 Washington Hall Lab 
p.m.. North Dining Hall Theater 
. Event: Swing Dance, . Event: Acoustic Cafe, 9 
8:30 to 11 p.m., LaFortune to 11 :30 p.m .. LaFortune Ballroom Student Center 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 


OUTSIDE THE DOME 


Lazio visits Syracuse, blasts Vasser Arafat 
SYRACUSE. N.Y. 
U.S. Senate candidate Rick Lazio denounced Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat for having "planned and orchestrated" recent violence in Israel. 
These anti-Palestinian Liberation Organization comments, made at Syracuse University's Eggers Hall were directed to defense and mili­tary officials in the university's National Security Studies program. 
"If there was ever evidence that Arafat is not interested in peace; the blood in the streets of Jerusalem is it," said Lazio, a four-term Republican congressman from Long Island. "The peace process is dying, for the time being at least, and responsibility for this lies squarely with Yasser Arafat." 
"If there is any evidence that Arafat is not interested in peace, the blood in the streets ofJerusalem is it. " 
Rick Lazio 

Republican congressman 
The SU visit marked Lazio's first to the university, as he struggles to bolster support in Upstate New York. 
The congressman also criticized the Clinton administration for diplo­matic overtures to so-called "states 

of concern," including Iran. Syria 
and North Korea. 
Lazio told the security studies stu­dents that the United States must isolate these countries. diplomatical­. ly and economically. and "punish" 
state-sponsored terrorist acts. 
"When it comes to dealing with 
rogue states, New York needs a sen­
ator who will hold the White !louse's 
feet to the fire --somebody who has 
the convictions and the courage to 
stand up for them," Lazio said. 
While Lazio also advocated strong 
support for U.S. military forces he 
also wavered slightly. In response to 
a question from SU professor and 
former ambassador Melvyn Levitsky, 
Lazio said he would consider sup­
porting a "consolidation" of military 
bases. 

UCLA 

Sex offender info to be available 
LOS ANGELES, Ca. 

President Clinton is expected to sign a bill next week requiring colleges nationwide to inform stu­dents if there are any registered sex offenders at their campuses. The bill, titled the "Violence Against Women Act of 2000," passed through the House and Senate earlier this month. It mandates that states document whether sex offenders are enrolled or employed at higher education institutions and dis­seminate that information to campus police. "It will provide additional resources to prevent violence against women on campuses," said S. Daniel Carter, vice president of Security on Campus, Inc., a non­profit organization that supports the bill. Currently, UCLA staff and faculty members are fingerprinted upon employment to see if they are registered sex offenders, Ross said. But a person who has commit­ted a sex offense won't necessarily have that infor­mation released to the public. 


LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AocuWeather l!.=ist fer daytime conditions and high lemperalllres 
1-/ 
Tuesd,y Wedn~sday 
I 
Thurs~ay 

Friday) 
,1 

Saturday.
{J··S··'.,.,,1·. \.,I 

Q,~,~0.GQ ~ ~ u 
Showers T-srorms Rain F/u,rles Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via A:ilociated Prus!I CJrapf11CJNsr 
UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA 
Regent criticizes chancellor 
LINCOLN, Neb. 

University of Nebraska Interim Chancellor Harvey Perlman shouldn't be considered for the permanent chancellor position, Hastings Regent Robert Allen wrote in an Oct. 20 letter, because of his "attention and interest in helping homosexuals." The letter said as dean of the Nebraska College of Law, Perlman spon­sored "several homosexual items," including a gay dat­ing service. Allen also objected to Perlman's telling members of UNL's Academic Senate that he was opposed to Initiative 416, which would ban gay and lesbian marriages, civil unions and domestic partner­ships in Nebraska. Perlman, who said he hasn't decid­ed whether he'll be in the running for the permanent chancellor position, refused to comment on Allen's let­ter but said the two had spoken on the phone since the letter was written. " Regent Allen is certainly entitled to his opinion," Perlman said. "And it differs from my opinion." 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeatherc> forecast for noon, Monday, Oct. 30. 
O 2000 Acc:uWeather, Inc. C<'XD WARM STATIONARY 
@""'co D D c:zJ D . . 
High luw Shaw.rs R1ln T·•10fm ¦ Flurrl•• Snow 101 Sunny P1. Cloudy Cloudy 
Vl•A!l,t:,c,.l"'1PrctP 

Atlanta 74 62 Las Vegas 84 60 Portland 56 40 Baltimore 74 27 Memphis 80 62 Sacramento 61 48 Boston 74 27 Milwaukee 50 43 St. Louis 71 58 Chicago 68 48 New Yori< 70 49 Tampa 78 54 Houston 88 67 Philadelphia 34 56 Wash DC 75 54 


Monday, October 30, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Local station stages South Bend version of Survivor 

Want to invent new sports? 
Football, baseball, basketball ... all the major sports we watch and play today are products of the 19th Century or earlier. 
Why is that? 

A new group is forming on campus that aims to make Notre Dame the birthplace of entirely new sports. It's called the 
Notre Dame Sports Invention Workshop. 
And if you're imaginative, inventive or entrepreneurial ­and like sports -come to the organizational meeting, which is ... 
7 p.m. TONIGHT!!! 

Recycle The ObserveJ!'. 
By KATIE McVOY News Writer 
Oo you have what it takes to be a survivor? 
This is the question that South Bend CBS affiliate WSBT-TV is asking as it hosts a spin-off of the popular CBS survival show Survivor. 
Tonight at 11 on WSBT-TV, South Bend area residents will see the first of 15 episodes of the show. 
Between Oct. 13-16, the sta­tion sent six local residents to Leeper Park Island in South Bend. Like members of its par­ent show on CBS, the residents voted on who would leave the island. At the end of the four­day period on the island, two survivors remained. 
The show, hosted by Amanda Hart, will air every weeknight through Nov. 17. On that night, local viewers will vote to determine who the ultimate survivor is. 
The winner will receive a week-long adventure in Australia. 
Contestants interested in being a part of the series were asked to write a 500-word essay discussing why they believed they should be cho­

'''''--''--'''''''''
Join us for an 
~ Are you involved in tutoring children? ~ 
Information Session 
'-Want to be more effective? '­
Monday, October 30 
'-. If so, you are invited to the '-.
7pm -9pm 
LaFortune Student 
Center 
~ Tutor Training ~ 
On-campus interviews will be 
~ Workshop ~ 
~ ~ ~ 
'-~ ' 
' ' 
sen for the show. 
"I am a blonde, so of course l can outwit, outsmart and outlast my opponents, espe­cially if they are brunettes," Cindy. one of the chosen island hoppers said in her essay. Last names of contes­tants have not been released. 
In a recent interview with the South Bend Tribune, sta­tion director Meg Sauer said the station's intent was "to have a nice eclectic group of people." 
Although the contestants had to be at least 18 years of age, youth did not seem to be a requirement. The six contes­

candidate for PNC. 
PNC p,ornises our clierits that we wtll listen to t:,em and add,~ss th,eir individ1.Jal nt"eOs. So hiring peopl-e with qualities like Sue is a must. In exchang~, we offer roorn 
to think. outside of the box, flexible career paths and a 
Si.lpportive environment. Need orie more reason to stay with us in Pittsbu rgli? Our city is --anked among the most livable in the count"Y, with mon: cultural 
attractions. ncr capita th<m anywh~rc else in the natiol'll 
-~,. ... --,~~; -1:_:-•_j;" _:~1:_,._::·1J .. ,.~::_·-~1~:.: -: ..:·~'.:~"? We have ~Jrcat m,ma~cmcnt-track positions in the followin~J areas. 
• Fin~rncc 
• 
Corporate Banking 

• 
Internships 


RSVP-to: college.recruiting@pncbank.com Thii sessiori is required for all stvdents selected for intervi~ws and is open to all Accountif'lg, Fin;:uiC'e a'ld Business Management students inter~steo in an inttmship with PNC. 


tants chosen for the four-day adventure ranged from a 22­year-old local IUSB student to a 51-year-old middle school teacher. 
The WSBT version of Survivor serves as more than local entertainment for the network. 
The show will air during the weeks when national and local ratings are measured. Because of the success of the original CBS series, the spin­off may increase ratings for the local station. 
WSRT's parent station, CBS, is supportive of the spin-off of its popular TV series. 

'00 grad struck by car outside the Linebacker 
Observer Staff Report 
Julia Gillespie, a 2000 '.\!otrc Dame graduate, was hit by a drunk driver on Edison Road early Saturday morning, according to South Bend police. 
She was taken to St. Joseph's Medical Center and where she was treated for cuts and bruis­es and released, 
Gillespie was leaving the Linebacker Lounge at 2:28 
a.m. when she lost her balance on a curb and stepped into the road, police said. The driver swerved to avoid her but was unsuccessful, according to 

"CBS is 100 percent behind us," Sauer said. 
After being chosen for the Survivor show. contestants had to sign a waiver authoriz­ing WSBT to tape and air their time on Leeper Park Island. 
ln addition, contestants had to agree not to discuss the results of the four-day stay with anyone and grant WSBT exclusive rights to interviews following the three-week series. 
The winner had to agree to being accompanied on tho Australia trip by a WSBT cam­era crew for another airing in January or February. 
Corporal Britton Shupert, the officer at the scene. Gillespie was hit from behind and knocked unconscious. 
The driver failed a breatha­lyzer test and was arrested for driving under the influence, police said Police would not release the driver's name. 
Police said Gillespie was walking back to campus from the bar with two friends when the accident happened. She was also intoxicated, Shupert said, but would not be charged. 
A Chicago resident, Gillespie graduated last year and majored in English with Computer Applications. She lived in McGlinn Hall. 
~ Wednesday, November ist, 6-9 pm ~ '-Center for Social Concerns '­
'-Pizza dinner will be provided! '­
~ Campus and local experts will facilitate training sessions. ~
'-. ' 
'-Topics to be addressed include: '­~ * Teaching Children to Read * Teaching Children Math ~ '-* Discipline * Conflict Management '­'-_ * Tutoring Fundamentals * Motivating students '-_ 
., Due to food and space limitations, please reserve '-. ~ your spot by 5pm, Monday, October 30th by phone ~ '-(631-5293) or e-mail (Cahill.l9@nd.edu). '­
Bi '­
--ONCERNS

r.;'~·,;·~,'-'-'-'-''-'''-'-'-'-' 
Rolfs Sports Rec Center meeting room (downstairs, adjacent to court 4) 
Let's get the ball -or whatever we devise -rolling. 
page 4 The Observer . NEWS Monday, October 30, 2000 
==============================================================================================================================--­
Reunion 
continued from page l 
Tom Coughlin, ·gt. 
Tho rr-union also helped raise an addi­
tioni.l $3,500 for an endowed scholarship 
!Jngun by a Holy Cross alum whose son 
w,ts kilkd in a car accident, Danik said. 
"We'rr. gong to endow a scholarship so sonwonc like us -middle class and both paw11t working, holding down a summer job ~nd trying to pul things together -can go tr Nolre Dame," he said. 
lloly Cross was also the nearest Notre Dame residence hall to Saint Mary's, and according to one alum, relations between tho Ilogs and the Belles were strong. 
"S;1,inl Mary's loved the !logs," said Host~mary Larcos '79, who marriod a I loly Cros-; grad. 
Constructed in 1885 as the Saint Aloysius Scholasticate, it was renamed lloly Cross Hall three years later. I loly Cross operated as a seminary for the grcnter half of the 20th Century, with University president emeritus Father Tlrn,Jdorn llesburgh among its most famous graduates. 
In 1% 7, the Brothers of the lloly Cross leasr:d the hall to Notre Dame for use as a resiclence hall during a housing crunch. Des~ ite structural and heating probIr-ms, the Univtirsity continued to use / loly Cross llall unlit the late 1980s, when the deci­sion was made by the Brothers to tear it down in Mav 1990. 
Though former residents had heard warnings that the dorm would be demol­ished, the first visit back to campus was an emotional one for many. 
"It's still strange today," said Greg Kamah '81. "I take my kids up the hill and say 'This is where my room was."' 
Even without their dorm, however, the l!og~ maintain the close ties that were the hallr1ark of their hall. 
"It's not the bricks and mortars," said Hay Hamirnz '76. "It's all these guys here." 
VENEZUELA 
Cc:1.stro praises H'ugo Chavez in address 
A.ssoci:ttcd Press 
VALENCIA 

Fidel Castro appeared on President llugc Chavez's radio talk show Sunday, prai:,ing Chavez's efforts to change Venezuelan society and joining his host in a sing-along to a popular ballad. 
Decidedly off-key, the two leaders sang the chorus of "Venezuela" at the end of a four-hour program that was at turns joc· ular •1nd studious, mournful and combat­ive. It was a demonstrative show of the close friendship between the 74-year-old Cubfan president and the 46-year-old Chavez. 
"I have confidence in you," Castro told Chavez. "At this moment, in this country, vou have no substitute." " Cai;tro has been on a visit to Venezuela since Friday. Ile and Chavez were to sign an oi I assistance pact Monday before he returns home. 
"I fnllo !'resident," Chavez's weekly call­in show, became "Hello Prosidcnts" Sunday in a studio broadcast to Cuba and Vnnczuela l'rom a place dear to both lead­ers: fhc Cambobo Battlefield where South Amc:·ican liberator Simon Bolivar defeat· ed thn SpanL'lh colonial army in 1821. 
Fiolding calls from Cuba and Vnnt zuela, the two leaders denounced the ~ panish colonialism or the past and a prcs,int-day economic colonialism they attribute to a "unipolar" economic order dom mated by the United Stales. They dern,111ded that Latin Americans work together to con[ront that order. 
"The only way we can light neoliberal­isrn ... is to unite," declared the garrulous Chavez, who dominated much of the show. 
Student Workers Needed To help assist other students using the temporary DART registration system at the Registration Center, G l 84 Hesburgh Library from November 
,h 

8 through December l" 
Hours: 9:00 am ro 5:00 pm 
Dates: 

November 8, 9, 10, 14, 15, 16, 20, 21, 28, 29, 30, December 1 
We need srudent help throughout the day. .. you pick your time you are available 
Please Contact: Arlene Vogt, Assistant Registrar, IOS Main Building, Registrar's Office 631-6050 
SARAH FUCHSfrhe Observer 
Drew Danik '75, organized the seventh Holy Cross Hall reunion this weekend. The Hogs met for golf, dinner, and a reception Friday, as well as a memorial Saturday on Holy Cross Hill. 
-

SA~ 
everyone's invited™ Equip smart~· 
l 

A laser printer for the price of an inkjet? 
Cool. Just $199. 
Now you can have your very own laser printer. At a breakthrough price. 
Fast. Sharp. Clean. Compact. With . ;;.; a toner cartridge that should last you all _.} year. And at a per page cost that's 70% 
less than inkjet. Plus a Toner Save button that extends the life another 30%. 
Papers that stand out in a teacher's grading stack. Professional resumes. Articles fit to submit for publication. All for the price of a half-dozen inkjet cartridges. 
Better think twice. Everyone in the dorm's gonna want to use it. 
Grab one at your campus bookstore. Order online. Or by phone at 800-459-3272. Go to www.samsungusa.com/Xtreme for more information. 
r.,~;;o..... 
: ,._.,,--·

.... 

.,......-.j 
----Ii' 
~ 
' 
--~~;. 


------...----~· 
The Samsnng ML-4500 Laser Printer. "16-pages-on-1" print feallxe and Last Page Reprint button. Microsoft ZOOO and Linux compatible. 
scare __
nar-ufin1rnr. 
°'"" ·i;... ..,'It,--~__ ma::
_1"" ,...._..,.

~--...11 .....,..._,_
bolllt-l11TV _ 
_,._.,.....Siol!>IJfl•

WWW.--Ol-llto­
-lJrlMlill•-,--llpa""""""9 
canpa­


e ~ Sarnwr,g [Tccltonic!o Ameroc.a SyncMa,..te,e t._ a tr__.k d. 'iarMurog [le(ttMIC' Anw!r,ca 

ATION 
October 30, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Chileans back government: Despite a lingering economic crisis, Chileans gave President Hicardo Lagos' socialist govern­ment a vote of confidence Sunday by favor­ing his coalition's candidates in municipal elections nationwide. With half the votes counted in mayoral and city council races in 341 municipalities, Lhc center-left coalition backing Lagos had won 51.5 percent of the elections compared to 40.9 percent for the right-wing opposition. 
Voting in Zanzibar halted: Vote­rounting in Zanzibar's second rnultiparty elections was halted after election officials declared that voting in 16 of 50 districts must be repeated because of a lack of bal­lots in Sunday's vote. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Utah Democrats hope to win seat: 
A late disclosure about the business practices of Republican candidate Derek Smith in Utah gives Democrats new hope they can win a seat that's been in GOP hands. An audit by the fed­eral Pension and Welfare Benefits Administration, obtained by The Associated Press, found that Smith's company, Cambric, made no payments into employee 401(k) fund for eight months in 1995. The company contin­ued to withhold the money from employees' checks at the time, a violation of the federal Employee Retirement Income Security Act. 
Gore proclaims Bush 'not ready': 
While the Republican side mostly rested on Sunday, Democrats Al Gore and Joseph Lieberman blanketed TV talk shows, rocked Detroit's black churches and motored through Michigan with a blunt homestretch message: "George Bush is not ready be president of the United States." 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Man shot, mistaken for deer: A 
Kosciusko County man was killed Sunday on a hunting trip when his father mistook him for a deer and shot him with an arrow. The Indiana Department of Natural Resources reported that Frederick Searfoss, 28, was bow hunting with his father, Jerry Searfoss, and a friend. Daryl Gans. While Searfoss was on his way to a tree_ stand he was mis­taken for a deer by his father, who later told conservation officers he thought that the sound his son was making was a deer walk­ing. 
Market Watch 10/27 

Dow 
10,590.62 +210.50

]ONES 
CompositeSame: 
Volume:
489 
NIA
•

Nasdaq: 3278.36 +0.19 
S&P 500: 1379.58 + IS. 14 TOP5VOLUMELEADERS 
COMPANYISEClJRJTY  %CHANGE  $GAIN  PRICE  
JOS l;NJPHASE (JDSlJ)  ,J.7H  +2.81  77.25  
Cl:.CO SYSTEMS (CSCOJ  -5.J6  -2.87  ;0.69  
MICROSOFT CORP (MSTT)  ,5.05  , 3.25  (,7.69  
NASDAQ JOO SHAR (QQQ)  -0. !Y  -0.15  79.72  
WORLDCOM INC (WCOM)  , t.43  +0.31  22.06  

COLOMBIA 


Associated Press 

BOGOTA 
Local elections took place peacefully acToss Colombia on Sunday in what officials labeled a vote against the guerrilla and paramilitary violence tearing apart this South American country. . 
Colombians voted for governors, mayors and town council members, many of them indepen­dents challenging the two traditional political parties -the Conservatives and Liberals -who are increasingly blamed for Colombia's woes. 
Charges that leftist 
rebels stole ballots marred closely-watched voting in a guerrilla-held southern area. It was the first time in 36 years of fighting that Colombians had voted under formal rebel rule. 
Fighting between rebels, rival paramilitary militias and government troops has left tens of thousands dead, forced millions to flee their homes and crip­pled a once-vibrant econo­my. But amid a security operation involving some 150,000 soldiers and police, there were no reports of major clashes Sunday and only scattered disruptions to voting. 
Despite its endemic 
strife, Colombia has one of Latin America's strongest electoral traditions and little history of military coups. Turnout appeared strong in the elections, with some people casting ballots even though they doubted it would make a difference. 
"This country is a disas­ter," said Lucy Restrepo, a 52-year-old housewife, as she left a polling station in a wealthy Bogota neigh­borhood guarded by sol­diers with machine guns and police checking bags for weapons. 
"There is robbery, cor­ruption. war. It's horri­ble," Restrepo said. "Who 
knows if my vote will 
help?" 
Beyond the thousands of 
loc-al posts up for grabs, 
officials said Colombia's 
embattled democratic sys­
tem was at stake. 
"Voting sends a very 
important message to the peace process," President Andres Pastrana said after casting his ballot. "It says to the insurgents that Colombians want to strengthen our democratic process, to strengthen our democracy. Polls closed Sunday evening and offi­cials said voting was dis­rupted in only two of ·colombia's nearly 1,100 
municipalities. 

Soldiers take army general hostage 
south of Lima near the Chilean bor­head of the army and chief of Peru's 
Associated Press 

der. joint armed forces to discuss the mil­The soldiers said they were dis­itary uprising, the presidential
LIMA 
gusted with Fujimori and the contin­palace said. Ile made no public com­
One day after President Alberto Fujimori dismissed the nation's three ued influence of his feared former ment. intelligence chief Vladimiro Peru has been in turmoil since the
top military leaders in a bold move Montesinos. September release of a video show­designed to bring Peru stability, a 
group of soldiers staged a revolt "I will lay down my arms when the ing Montesinos apparently bribing a chain of command is legitimate and congressman to support Fujimori. In
Sunday, seizing a southern mine and 
reportedly taking an army general there is a president who has been the ensuing scandal, the president hostage. truly elected by the people to whom I announced he would step down in would swear 'subordination and July after new elections.
Some 51 soldiers under the com­valor,"' Humala said in a statement, The political crisis intensifiedmand of Lt. Col. Ollanta Humala demanding that Montesinos be Monday, when Montesinos returnedjoined three unidentified civilians in 
taking, then abandoning, the copper thrown in prison. to Peru after a failed asylum bid in Fujimori met Sunday with the new Panama and went underground. 
mining town of Toquepala, 535 miles 
Monday, October 30, 2000 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 
=================================================================================================== 
Airport 
continued from page 1 
using indi.vidual retirement 
accounts. Bush also noted the 
Clinton administration's failure 
to act to reform Medicare. 
arg1. ing that seniors should 
receive the same options for 
medical cam as federal employ­
ees receive. 
"One thing my opponent can• not (:scape is this fact that you havu tu tell the undecided voter: In 1992 they went aro1. nd the country talking about Medicare reform. In 1996 they went around the country talking about Medicare reform. llcre in the year 2000, they're still talking about Medicare rnl'nrm," he said. "/\l Gore says you ain't seen nolhin' yet, and he's right. we've never seen nothin' yet." 
Bu:;h's plan advocates provid­ing assistance with prescription drug costs, including 100 per­cent coverage for seniors in tho lowest economic brackets. he said. The Republican nominee further oxtflnded his push for returning leadership to local lovc.s of government when describing his vision for the future of America's educational system. 
'Tm not interested in being the federal superintendent of schools. We're not for the fed­crali:'.ation of the public educa­tion system in America," he said. "We believe in local con• trol of schools. We believe we ought to trust teachers and par­ents ind local folks to make the right decisions for the children and :he communities in which they live." 
Bw;h also expressed concerns aboul the current morale of the 
U.S. military and said that he would both work with Congress to build military strength and to foster mutual respect between the commander in chief and members of the armed forces. 
Ult:mately. Bush told his sup• porters that intangible differ• ences in character would make him a better president than Gore, noting in particular his success at building bridges across party lines in Texas while alluding to the scandals that have plagued the Clinton administration. In addition to preserving, protecting and defending the Constitution, Bush said he would also pledge to bring respectability back to the Oval Office. 
"I will also swear to you that I will bring honor and dignity to the White House, so help me God," he said. 
Republican candidate for gov­ernor David McIntosh and Chris Chocola, candidate for the U.S. House of Representatives were in attendance at the rally to help build unity among local Republicans. 


Bush 
continued from page 1 
dents shouldn't be asked, 'How old are you?' ... rather than, 'What do you know?"' 
Bush also cited Reagan's tax cuts of the 1980s as a possible source for the strength of' today's economy, and said that the government should not take any more than 1/3. of any­one's income. 
"We believe government ought to be limited," said Bush. "We don't believe in the heavy hand of' government; we believe in the helping hand of government. We trust people to make the best decisions for their lives." 
Since the rally's audience ­packed tightly into the Mendel 
Center on Lake Michigan 
College's campus in Benton 
Harbor, Mich. while hundreds 
more waited outside -con­
tained mostly Bush supporters, 
he discussed not onlv the elec­
tion issues, but also the nature 
of the campaign itself. 
"This campaign is more than just a person, it's a philosophy, it's an effort to change America," Bush said. "It's a close race and the team that's got the best grassroots organi­zation is the team that's going to win." 
Recent Associated Press polls have been especially close in Michigan, one of four key states for which the candidates are currently vying. 
"We here in Michigan are the epicenter, we are ground­zero and we are going to elect ·the next President of the United States," said Candice Miller, Michigan's Secretary of' State, in her opening com­ments at the rally. 
Michigan Governor John Engler, a Republican, also commented on the candidates' campaign strategies in his introductory remarks. 
"I think [the increase. in Bush's poll approval in Michigan I is a rejection of some of the scummiest calls that are happening today in politics ... coming into the homes of Michigan," said Engler. "I reject that kind of approach to campaigning ... we 're not going to let our citi­zens be scared. 
Bush also said, "We believe in responsible leadership, leadership that stands on prin­ciple not on polls or focus groups." 

NEWS ANALYSIS 
Professor: Undecided voters will make or break election 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
Associate News Edi tor 
Wilh the two major parties' presidential candidates hesitant to di-aw strong distinctions betwnen themselves on issues in order to maintain a more cen­trist political stance to attract voters, the result has been a race 1.hat he polls show to be the closest Presidential race since that of John F. Kennedy versus Hichard Nixon in 1960, accord­ing tc Saint Mary's professors. 
Mrn;t polls indicate a very nar­row margin between the candi­dates and have yet to indentify a clear front-runner. 
Undecided voters are the caus(1 of the switching of leads in thP polls, said Patrick Pierce, asso( iate professor of political scicn,:c at Saint Mary's. 
"nere arc a large number of undedded voters who are rela­ti vc l y volatile voters," said Pierce. "You can see them switc'ling who they are going to vote for based on the changing leads of candidates in the polls." 
A lack or enthusiasm for either ol' the major party candidates has l1~d to Bush and Gore lack­ing well-defined base of support. This factor has contributed to the large numbnr of undecided voturs, Pierce said. lie added that third-party candidates like Nader and Buchanan could play a rok in Urn outcome ol'the elec­tion. 
Watching the series of three presidential debates. viewers may have been surprised to find Bush and Gore pointing out agreement with each other on various issues, paticularly noticeable in questions of for­eign policy. Pierce also attrib­uted the large number of unde­cided voters to the hesitance of Gore and Bush to distinguish themselves from each other on issues, which is also contribut­ing to the close nature of the race. 
"Objectively, it is not true that there are not clear differences between Bush and Gore," said Pierce. "But to ordinary voters, it looks as though there aren't major differences between the two candidates because of how the debates went. Both candi­dates spent the majority of the time pointing out areas of agree­ment they had with their oppo­nent." 
Pierce said the reason for this tactic of agreeing with the oppo­nent could have been due to advice given to the candidates by consultants. 
Sean Savage, associate profes­sor of political science at Saint Mary's concurred with Pierce. 
"Part of it is that you have undecided voters seeing tho can­didatos trying to be similar to each other by trying to cover the middle ground with their posi­tions on issues," Savage said. 

Failure of the candidates to distinguish themselves on issues has led to voters focusing on personality of each candidate, said Savage. 
However, despite the close­ness of the race, Savage was hesitant to draw comparisons between the close 1960 presi­dential election and the 2000 election. 
"Comparisons between this and the 1960 election can be carried too far," he said. "After the first debate in 1960, Kennedy went ahead of Nixon in the polls and never lost that lead, no matter how narrow it was. It seems as though today people are waiting longer to make up their minds about who to vote for." 
With the election only eight days away, the strategy employed by campaigns in the final days is key. Both Bush and Gore have appeared to be trying to woo undecided voters and mobilize their party loyals in their remaining campaign stops. Bush's stop in Benton Harbor, Mich., last Friday -a tradition­ally solid Ilepublican-lcaning area of Michigan -was an example of the push to mobilize the Party base. 
Pierce and Savage differed in their assessments of campaign strategy in the remaining days. 
''People at this point who are undecided, won't vote at all or choose a candidate capriciously and there is no way that cam­paigns can predict that," said Savage. "The campaigns are most likely then to try to ener­gize their base so that the most likely Republican voters in toss­up states like Michigan could push Michigan into Bush's elec­toral column." 
Savage added that this tactic also explains the pressure on Gore to have President Bill Clinton campaign for him among key traditionally Liberal con­stituencies such as women and black voters, that Clinton has influence with. 
The candidates can never overlook undecided voters, said Pierce. 
"Undecided voters are never a lost cause, particularly in this election where it is so close," said Pierce. "This is the point in the campaign where the candi­dates will be getting little sleep, mobilizing their base. and trying to make appeals to undecided voters. It's not as though they can just focus on the Party's base and ride on that." 
The final days of' the campaign will also see the candidates bat­tling over toss-up states, includ­ing those that the candidates at one point expected not to have to campaign in as heavily. in Florida, where Bush's brother Jeb is governor, Bush and Gore arc locked in a tight battle for the state's 25 electoral votes. Gore's home state of Tennessee which has narrowly voted for the Democratic presidential can­didate in the last two elections has also become a state that Bush is a contender to win. 

The possibility of one candi­date winning the popular vote but not the 273 votes necessary to secure winning those of the electoral college is being consid­ered by experts. 
"This is slightly more possible now that it has been since 1968 when there was some semi-seri­ous talk about abolishing the electoral college because it looked like Nixon could win the popular vote and not the elec­toral vote," said Savage. 
While Pierce agreed that this outcome was possible, he said it is more a media-generated idea. 
"Clearly, the number of times this has been the outcome of an election should give people pause to think it will happen again," said Pierce. "I suppose that it is possible but it strikes me as one of those things that the media loves in a story and has the cha.nee to point out that one of the country's institutions could have an undemocratic outcome because a candidate who won the popular vote wouldn't win because he hadn't won the electoral college. I think it's unfortunate the media por­trays it in this way because there arc a number of good things that come out or tht1 idea orthe electoral college." 


Monday, October 30, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 

Cop kills actor at Halloween party 
Asoociated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

The police shooting of a Halloween party guest who was brandishing a fake gun has left the troubled Los Angeles Police Department in an unwanted spotlight and the victim's friends blaming racial profiling. 
Actor Anthony Dwain Lee, 39, died at the Hollywood Hills mansion after he was shot sev­eral times bv a.n officer who fired at him· through a glass door about 1 a.m. Saturday. 
Police say Lee had pointed 
what looked like a gun at 

CLIMB THE PYRAMID OF TH.ESUN 
FIND OUT MORE ABOUT 
Notre Dame's International Study Program IN 
PUEBLA, MEXICO 
INFORMATION SESSION 
Wednesday, November 1, 2000 
4:45 PM 207 DeBartolo 

APPLICATION DEADLINE: Nov. 7, 2000 for Spring 2001 Dec. 1, 2000 for F'2001, AY 2001-2002 
Scared because you don't have anything to do for Halloween? 
I 
Who ya gonna call? 

GH$STBUSTERS 
When: Tues., October 31 at 8:00pm Where: DeBartolo 102 How Much: FREE!!! 
Free Goodie Bags for the movie while supplies last 
Sponsored by Student Activities Office 
Officer Tarriel Hopper, and Hopper, who had been called to the mansion to respond to a noise complaint, fired in self defense. 
"fie had no way of knowing it was fake even though people were in costume," Los Angeles Police Department spokes­woman Charlotte Broughton said Sunday. "If you feel your life is threatened, you react in the way you were trained." 
But Lee's friends said Sunday that the shooting was more than a mistake. Some planned to hold vigil Monday night in front of the police station where Hopper is stationed to protest the shooting. 

uHis biggest fear was getting killed by 1;ops, because he's a tall black man," Mary Lin, a friend of the Lee's, told the Los Angeles Times. 
It wasn't clear if Lee knew that Hopper, who is also black, was a real policeman and not just another party guest. Some at the party said other guests were wearing LAPD uniforms. 
"This is so incredibly shock­ing that a person would be taken down like this," said Kirsten Blackburn, a fri1md of Lee's. 
The police departmerit and District Attorney's office are both investigating the shooting. 
The shooting comes as the LAPO is already struggling to recover from a widespread corruption scandal and accusa­tions of civil rights abuses and police brutality. 
Two other officers have faced criminal charges this year for shootings, District Attorney spokeswoman Sandi Gibbons said. Meanwhile. four police officers are currently on trial for allegedly framing gang members. 
Broughton said she believes the public will realize the Lee shooting wasn't intentional or a case of police brutality. 
"I think most people can understand where we're com­ing from as far as what we have to do. We're risking our lives every day," she said. 
Police said several hundred people were at the mansion early Saturday when Hopper and bis partner arrived and began searching for the owner. 
Broughton refused to say whether Hopper, a three-year veteran, shouted a warning before firing. She said she didn't know if Lee's toy gun had any brightly colored marks _ that would distinguish it from a real weapon. 
New law may not punish terrorists 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
A new law gives American victims of terrorism millions of dollars in compensation, but some fear it won't achieve their ultimate goal -punishing ter­rorist nations. 
The legislation to pay victims from the U.S. Treasury first, and recoup the money from alleged terrorist states later, Le, a precedent that complicates international diplomacy, say some international law experts. 
The legislation signed Saturday by President Clinton is "a convoluted scheme," says Rosemary Wolfe of Alexandria, Va., whose 20-year-old 

stepdaughter, "I'm no saint, but I The victims had been
Miriam, died 

could not take money 
blocked from bombing of 
in the 1988 

this way." getting the pay­Pan Am J-iight 
ments until 
now because

103. Susan Cohen "I'm no 
the administra­

mother of terrorism victim
saint, but I could not take money this way," says Susan Cohen, whose 20-year-old daughter, Theodora, died in that attack over Lockerbie Scotland. ' 
"It doesn't irunish terrorists. it punishes U.S. taxpayers," says Cohen of Cape May Court House, N.J. 
"The American taxpayer is going to pay millions of dollars, and somehow, someday, maybe soon, maybe not soon, the money will be taken from the Iranians?" asked Cohen. 
"I think you have to believe in the Easter Bunny to believe that." 
She and others believe Libya is behind the Pan Am bombing of 12 years ago. . 
One proponent of the law and among the first who will benefit from it is Stephen Flatow, whose daughter, Alisa, was killed in a 1995 bombing in the Gaza Strip. Others include Terry Anderson, for­mer chief Middle East corre­spondent for The Associated Press in 1984 when he was taken hostage and held in Lebanon for nearly seven years, and fellow hostages held for shorter periods, David Jacobsen, Joseph Cicippio and Frank Reed. 

Together. eight families who've won lawsuits will receive some $213 million plus interest. 
"When Tehran reads in the papers that the president has signed this law, and people can go after their money, it's going to hit home," says Fla tow of West Orange, N.J. "They're going to wake up." 
Courts awarded those dam­ages under a 1996 law that allowed American victims to sue countries sponsoring ter­rorists if those countries are on the State Department's list of 
seven terrorist 
states. 
tion rejected 

various plans such as seizing the long-closed Iranian embassy in Washington or taking money from frozen Iranian assets. Officials feared drawing retaliation or ruining chances for future relations with those states, which are Sudan. North Korea, Iraq, Iran, Cuba, Libya and Syria. 
Another section of the law gives some $50 million to the families of three Brothers to the Rescue workers whose plane was shot down off the coast of Florida by Cuban jets in 1996. That monev comes from frozen Cuban a;sets and not the Treasurv. 
While the law most immedi­ately addresses cases against Iran and Cuba, lawsuits are pending against Iraq by Americans used as human shields during the Persian Gulf War and against Libya on behalf of the victims of Pan Am's bombing. If those fami­lies are awarded damages in court, they too could go to the government and ask for help in getting compensation. It would be up to future administrations to block them or help them get assets from those countries. 
---------------------------------. 
page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, October 30, 2000 
IIVORY COAST 

]Popular uprising typical of recent West African trends 
Associated Press 
ABIDJAN 
;\ popular uprising had pushed Ivory Coast's military ruler from power, and pPople worn celebrating in the streets. But the cries of jubilation had barely begun when ethnic and religious tensions exploded into violence in this West African nation. 
Last week's evenlc; followed a pattern that has become famil­iar in this region scarred by power-struggles and dictatorial leaders -a reminder that political change alone does not assuage the sharp divisions, othnic and otherwise. that still tear at West Africa. 
Ivory Cua.st, a tropical coun­1ry rich in cocoa and coffee, saw its reputation as an oasis of stability in volatile West Africa shattered in a Dec. 24 coup that brought military jllnta leader Gen. Hobert Guei to power. 
Guei sur­
vived two 
"Democracy comes in The elt~ction
mutinies and 
stages. Learning how of a southern 
a reported 
Yoruba and
assassination to deal with it on a 
his efforts to
attempt. But 
nonviolent basis 
diversify the
when he sus­
takes time. " government
pended the 
and military
,:om mission 
created
1Jv ers eei n g Tim Bork 
unease 
last week's director, African Policy Initiative among the
elections to 
restore civil­
:an rule and declared himself 
the winner. thousands of 
fomonstrators took to the 
,treets, later to be joined by 
members of his own security 
forces. 
Guei fled and a longtime 
opposition leader, Laurent 
Gbagbo, was swept to power. 
It was the latest of a series of changes that would seem to bring power closer to the peo­ple in West Africa. Civilian leaders are now in control of such coup-prone countries as Nigeria and Niger. In Senegal, where one party held sway for 40 years. a March presidential election brought a longtime opponent to power. 
Within hours of Gbagbo's tri­umph, however, the followers of a rival political leader who was excluded l'rom the Oct. 22 presidential vote had taken to the streets to demand a new ballot. By the following morn­ing. political clashes between Gbagbo's mostly southern. Christian supporters and the predominantly northern, Muslim followers of Alassane Dramane Ouattara had turned into bloody sectarian attacks with machetes. rocks and nail-studded clubs. 
A Muslim office worker watched in horror from her apartment in a middle-class suburb as northerners were pulled from their cars at barri­cades of burning tires, robbed and beaten by Gbagbo support­ers chanting anti-foreigner slo­gans. 
"Our own neighbors were shouting, 'Kill them like chick­ens."' said the woman. who asked not to be identified. 
More than 200 people are believed to have died since the elections. By most accounts. the majority were Ouattara supporters, who also found themselves battling security forces who backed Gbagbo's followors. 
A taxi driver wiped tears from his eyes as he described how paramilitary police accompanied by Gbagbo sup­porters broke down the door of his house and took away his seven brothers. Only one returned. 
The other six were taken to a police compound, told to lie on the ground and shot. according to the surviving brother. The taxi driver. who declined to give his name for fear of retri­bution, said his brothers' bod­ies were later dumped in a field on the outskirts of town where about 55 twisted corpses were later found piled on top of one another. 
"I was born in Abidjan," the driver said, clutching pho­tographs of his brothers in happier times. "But they say we Muslims are foreigners." 
Such  scenes  have  been  
played  out  in  this region  
before.  

In Nigeria, thousands have died in renewed clashes since President Olusegun Obasanjo was elected last year, ending 15 years of military rule. 
country's 
northern Hausa and Fulani, who had traditionally dominated those institutions. Some Yorubas. in turn, fear Obasanjo is a stooge for the north because of his military background. 
In Senegal's troubled Casamance region, which is geographically and ethnically distinct from the rest of the country, separatist rebels have waged an 18-ye,ar fight for independence. And in Niger, tensions linger despite the end of years of desert warfare waged by Tuareg tribesmen, an olive-skinned people who don't consider themselves African. 
"I don't think that because the public erupted and called for democratic changes that you are necessarily going to see the consolidation of politi­
t 

cal liberalization" in Ivory Coast, said Tim Bork, director of the African Policy Initiative for the Carnegie Endowment. "Democracy comes in stages. Learning how to deal with it on a nonviolent basis takes time." 
For years, however, Ivory Coast was spared the violence that con­vulsed its neighbors, steadied by a booming economy and a revered leader who managed to co-opt most of his opponents. 
But founding President f<elix Houphet-Boigny allowed no opposition parties for most of his 33 years in power. When politics were liberalized in 1990, most of the parties that emerged were organized a.long ethnic and reli­gious lines. 
There are some 60 different ethnic groups in the country of 19 million people. llouphet-Boigny's successor, Henri Konan Bedie, began using these divides as political fodder to shore up his dwindling support. Guei was accused of the same thing after ousting Bedie. 
Meanwhile, coffee and cocoa prices have plummeted in recent 
years. and Ivory Coast's economy 
has stumbled. 
Ivorians, who in more prosper­ous times threw open their bor­ders to migrant workers and war refugees from neighboring states. now mutter darkly about the "foreigners" they say want to take over the country. 
Ouattara. a former prime min­ister, was barred from running for president because the Supreme Court questioned whether both his parents were Ivorian, as required by a new junta-approved constitution. 

rn,us. 
"7II_Gdp . 
1Jll,News America Marketing 
..-f"'""..¥'.,.. 

Learn more about News America Marketing's great careers in sales and marketing at bur information session: 

Monday, October 30th 
6:00 p.m. -8:00 p.m. 

The Alumni Room at The Morris Inn 
All Majors Welcome • 3.0 Minimum GPA Refreshments Will Be Served 

·r}:-~.,_'..t ~~·-{· .. 
•:--""'._, ... ,\ 
. -i~ 

Visit us at www.newsamerica.com 


The next 1neeting will be held Wednesday, November rt, at 5:30 p.m. in the CSC. The theme is "biterrace: Standing Alone". The focus is isolation in a homogenous setting. 
Dinner provided courtesy of Multicultural Student Programs and Services. Please RSVP by October 30th ! Call l-1684. 
Monday, Ocotber 30, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
ISRAEL 
Clashes continue, Barak attempts to find coalition 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 

A column of Israeli tanks and armored personnel carriers rolled into the Gaza Strip and exchanged tire with Palestinian gunmen Sunday, a day of renewed clashes that left five Palestinians drad and dozens wounded. 
Amid the turmoil, Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak met Ariel Sharon. leader of the hawkish Likud party, in an attempt to forge a coalition gov­ernment. No immediate agree­ment was reported. 
In Gaza, the Karni road junc­tion resembled a battlefield with acrid smoke from burning tires darkening the air and tanks moving along the road, their occasional fire punctuat­ing the sound of assault-rifle rounds. 
The armv said it sent the armored column to secure free movement or Jewish settlers on the key road, which cuts through the strip and has been the site of violent Palestinian protests. 
The tanks responded to fire from Palestinian police by shooting from mounted machine guns, the military said. A 14-year-old boy and a 31­year-old man were killed, medics said. At least 25 people were injured overall in Gaza. 
"We've retaliated with tanks and helicopter gunships at cer­tain points and we used them with consideration," said the army chief of staff, Lt. Gen. Shaul Mofaz. The ·military, he added, plans to begin initiating action rather than reacting to gunfire. 
Military oflicials said the army wanted. to phase down its aggressive image and reduce friction with stone-throwing Arab youths, focusing instead on pinpoint struggle against armed Palestinian radicals. 
Also in Gaza, Palestinians set off a homemade bomb and fired at a bus carrying Jewish settlers near the Morag settlement. The army responded with fire, the military said. 
In the West Bank town of Nablus, two Palestinians were killed and four were wounded in clashes. The armv said sol­diers opened fire ·when the Palestinians' customary stones and firebombs gave way to guns. However. Suleiman Narkib, a Palestinian doctor. at the site, said he did not see any gunfire coming from the Palestinian side. 
Another Palestinian was killed Sunday night in violent clashes near the West Bank town of Jenin, and a 20-year-old Arab from the same area died two days after being shot in the head. Israeli police. meanwhile, said 25-vear-old Marik Gavrilov, an Israeli who was found dead inside a burned car in the West Bank town of Ramallah on Saturday, was killed for political reasons. 
The deaths raised the overall count to 140 since the blood­shed erupted more than a month ago. The vast majority of the dead and injured have been Palestinians. 

While the army and protesters fought in Gaza, Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat presided over the opening of a new Gaza hospital and pledged that the Palestinian fight will continue. 
"Our people shall remain steadfast and strong until one or our young boys or girls raises the flag over Jerusalem. the capital of the state of Palestine," he told reporters. 
But the Palestinians were showing signs of economic dis­tress. 
Israeli authorities have pre­vented Palestinians from enter­ing Israel since Oct. 6, shortly after the violence began. Normally, about 120,000 Palestinians work in Israel, and industries including tourism and agriculture have been hit hard by the closure. 
"At the beginning of the year 2000 we could claim that it started as a year of economic recovery,': said Mohammad Shtayyeh, managing director of the Palestinian Economic Council for Development and Reconstruction. "Now this clo­sure is adding another external shock to the Palestinian econo­my." 
Shtayyeh said unemployment in the West Bank and Gaza was 13 percent before the closures and that the areas have seen many layoffs since then. 
The Palestinian territories remain heavily dependent on Israel. importing $2 billion 

Horne is. no haven 
Last week's firefights between Gilo, a Jewish neighborhood, and Beit Jalla, an Arab village, has brought the Palestinian-Israeli struggle closer than ever before. Middle­class homes have now become the battleground. 
1949. Armlsti 
Lin(!_<· .. 
.... }r 
1 
••••·~:-~; hdi'i-f}~t, ······ 
worth of goods each year from the Jewish state -86 percent of total imports. 
Palestinian leaders are con­cerned about recent Israeli talk of a "unilateral separation," which would involve setting borders and possibly tightening economic restrictions. Palestinian Economic Minister Maher Al-Masri said economic relations should be "based on a free trade arrangement." 

Shtayyeh said there were measures the Palestinians could take if Israel went ahead with unilateral separation and con­tinued to maintain the closures. 
"We can let all the sewage flow into the Jewish settlements [in the West Bank], we can do all these unilateral measures as well," he said. 
On the political front, Barak began the day saying he was close to forming a parliamen­tary coalition that could prevent the collapse of his minority gov­ernment. Barak is trying to finalize a deal with Likud in a bid to retain power and stave off early elections. 
"We have to move forward together to lead the state through the emergency situa­tion that has emerged," Barak said in an interview with Israel's army radio. 
But his meeting with Sharon was inconclusive, and aides to the two worked frantically to forge a coalition before parlia­ment reconvened on Monday following a three-month recess. The Knesset may pass a no-con­fidence motion that could bring Barak's government down. 
Sharon. who opposes Barak's land-for-peace policies. has been seeking a veto over future peace moves -a demand Barak has rejecte-d, according to Israeli media reports. 
Also Sunday, senior Israeli army officials said they were preparing for an escalation of attacks along their northern border with Lebanon that could deteriorate into war with Syria. 
Syria, the effective power bro­ker in Lebanon, has given the Lebanon-based fundamentalist 
...Mu,sli,t;n Hezbollah a reen Ii ht 
~-0 ?'tt~ . .• li(!'ih~._p_-""
~el: .~ . .'',ffr. Qt
'"ctfcr'O . Af:.,;,:.:l~'.E'!]:~4: Yaalon. Iran, in ·backing Ilezbollah, has pressured the group to engage in anti-Israeli activity, he added. 


WHEN? 
The week of January 4 -1 1 Specific 48 hour period Set by·each Site.
Plunge! 

.._ I ndianapolis.f.MObile"'"New York 4-0akland... Philadelphia Phoenix.r-Pittsburgh.;.St. Petersburg...south Bend+San Antonio San Diego.-,.Tacoma+Washington D.C.+AND MORE! 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 
'THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Nurre Dam,, IN 46556 04 Somh Dining Hall. Notre Dame. IN 465% 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EmrnR  BUSINESS MANAGU  
rs: orecn Gillcspie  Tim Lane:  
Assl. MANAGING EDITOR  OPEIL\1'10NS MANAGER  
Christini, Kraly  Brian Kessler  

NF.W5 EDITOR, Anne Marie Mattingly Vn.'Wl'OINT EDl'TOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOII• Amanda Greco SA.NT MARY'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOl'O EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 

ADHIITISINC MANAGF.R: Pat Peters At> DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila S¥'S11'MS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville ~·E8 ADMINl~TRAT0R: Adam Turner CoNTROL!.ER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EmToR, Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGEllfGENEIW. INF0 .............. 631-7471 FAX....................... .. ................. 631-6927 Aovt::ffJSING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc. nd.cdu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANI.GING EDITORIAssT. ME....................631-454I Bus,nss OFFICE.......................................631-5313 NEW5 . ........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews.l@nd.edu VJEW•OINT ................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoinr. I@nd.edu SPORTS.....................................................631-4543 observer.spons. l@nd.edu 
ScENL .............................................. 63 l-4S40 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv'S.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTI.MSIWEB ADMINISJ'RATORS ................631-8839 
THE 1i)esERVER ONLINE 
Vi, it our Web site at http://ob1erv,r.nd.edu for daily up&1 es of campus news, ,ports, features and opinion columns, as wdl as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rh" Associated Press. 
Sl:RF TO: 
wi:ather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 

minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 

adverti.sr for policies 
online features for spe­

and rates of print ads 
~ial campus coverage 

ar:hives to search for 
about The Observer 

articles published after 
ro meer the edirors and 

August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
Tlie Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prinr and online by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary•s Coll<ge. Edirorial contenr. includingadvcrrisemcnts, is not governed by policies of rhe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adveirisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the: maioriry of the Editor in Chief, Managing Ediror, Assiscanr Managing Editor and department editors. Corr menraries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
V,ewpoint space is available to all readers. The free <xpr•:ssion of all opinions through letters is encouraged. L.,,m,rs to rhe Editor musr h<' signed and must include contac1 informacion. 
~11atio,u regarding Ob1mm-polir:i,s sho11/d be d,r,,t­rd 16 Editvr in ChiefMifu Connolly. 
DILBERT 
MY &ON IS FLUNKING 
ALL HIS CLASSES. I'M HOPING HE CAN GET A JOB INVOLVING 


O
THE BSERVER Monday, October 30, 2000 

Praising Bush's message 
Friday afternoon, Hepublican presiden­tial candidate George W. Bush rode into town like a phantom and left just as quickly -zooming oIT in his 757 dubbed "Responsibility One" to Detroit. fie artu­ally spent less time speaking -13 min­
utes -than he did shaking hands and greeting supporters after his speech. Yet his brief visit to South Bend left more than 2,000 people. many of whom were waiting two hours or more on an unseasonably 


warm October after-Mike Marchand noon, energized and eagerly anticipating 
Questionable
voting for him next 

Freedoms
Tuesday. 

Most of the elec­2000 tricity coming from the supporters stemmed from the Governor's basic themes: tax cuts targeted at everyone who pays taxes rather than certain peo­ple who meet certain qualifications; lim­ited privatization of Social Security so younger workers can invest their own retirement funds and get larger returns; and reforming the educational system "to ensure that no child gets left behind." 
The good feeling evident on Friday is hardly a phenomenon limited to South Bend. Not even Indiana, where Bush will likely win by double digits. 
It's evident in many of the termed "swing states," many of which are slowly pulling around to the Governor. It's visi­ble in California, where Bush has closed a Gore lead as high as 15 points down to five without spending one second or one dime campaigning in the Golden State in over three months. 
It's happening even in the Vice President's home state of Tennessee, where Bush leads by four points in an Oct. 21 poll. 
What is this nationwide sensation? Despite the fact that many media outlets and pundits are labeling the race "too close to call" and that we'll all have to "wait and see" for every precinct to report in, it's becoming obvious to even the most nonpartisan observers of this election that Governor Bush is control­ling the race and will win, barring a colossal screwup or a massive 11th hour 
comeback by Gore. But the odds of either 
of those happening are about as likely as 
the chances of us seeing the Veep get 
down to "Who Let The Dogs Out." 
From the opinion pages to "Doonesbury," writers arc taking it upon themselves to catalog every one of Bush's speaking flubs in a. desperate attempt to try to prove to America that 'Dubya' somehow doesn't have the brainpower necessary to be commander in chief. They can add one from South Bend: he said, 'The government is not the surplus' money," before immediately correcting himself by transposing "gov­ernment" and "surplus." 
As for a ninth inning rally by Gore, he and his army of spinsters have already unloaded just about every trick in their bag. A small handful of Gore supporters at the Bush-fest held up signs demoniz­ing Bush for how he has run Texas (debatable) to the number of criminals executed during his tenure (uh, Gore is also pro-death penalty) to Bob Jones University (old and, plus. I wrote a col­umn in March that annihilated that argument.) 
Gore himself has used class warfare, trying to portray himself as a man of the people and Bush as an elitist millionaire. Well, Gore went to Harvard, and is by all accounts a fairly wealthy guy. Gore has attempted to paint Bush and VP candi­date Dick Cheney as puppets of Big Oil, capital letters used to emphasize their inherent evilness. But neither Republican candidate has any current ties to the oil industry; Gore owns a bunch of shares of Occidental Petroleum. 
Moreover, their experience could help them in dealing with matters of the Persian Gulf; Gore's lack of knowhow was obvious when he thought that a 30 million barrel release of oil would do anything to alleviate the big numbers at the pump or the little numbers at his poll. 
Gore has used scare tactics against every one of Bush's issues. Apparently according to Gore, America under -a Bush administration would look some­thing like this: 
Uneducated children who couldn't benefit from school vouchers because they're not rich would run arou.nd in the streets. 
Meanwhile, the wealthy would take their massive tax refunds and go skitter-
SCOTT ADAMS 
CARR.YING THEM? 
~ 

---u....i..........______, !! L,_;.........:.J.____
~~~~ 

ing around in yachts eating caviar, 
because (Weryone knows the rich do 
nothing to aid the American oconomy. 
Seniors would be forced to take medi­
cine for dogs as representatives from 
their IIMOs would look on and laugh 
devilishly. 
The U.S. government would declare 
bankruptcy because the "risky schemes" 
of tax cu ts and Social Security reform 
would drain all of the federal funds. 
And poor 'Dubya' would be a hostage in the Oval Office to the NBA, Big Tobacco, Big Oil. Big Pharmaceuticals, Big Polluters, Big Business, Big Boy, Big Ben and Big John Studd, while armies from every enemy of the United States march on Washington outside because George has no foreign policy exprwience and, of course, the fact that Clinton had zip in '92 means nothing. 
All of this scheming, definitely backed by a feeling of desperation to avoid being shut out of control by the Hepublicans, has given Al Gore just enough traction to be noticed by the American populace as an actual human and not the talking slab of Formica he's been portrayed as for the last seven vears. This massive mean­spirited demagoguery campaign might have bought Gore a few votes. but his rhetoric and overall demeanor of late has pushed his unfavorable numbers past his favorable rankings in opinion polls. You can't get elected when more people hate you than like you. 
Meanwhile, the most vicious Bush ever was Friday was a poke at eight years of unfulfilled promises of President Clinton and Gore on medicare reform: "My oppo­nent says, 'You ain't seen nothing yet,' ... and he's right!" 
He followed it up with a oft-repeated phrase from the convention: "Mr. Vice President, you've had your chance. You have not led. We will." 
America is catching on to George W. Bush's positive and future-oriented mes­sage. Al Gore is eight days away from being toast. But at least Joe Lieberman will still be the Senator l'rom Connecticut. 
Mike Marchand is an off-campus senior English major. His e-mail address is Marchand.J@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"1bo bad 90 percent of the politicians give the other 10 percent a bad reputation." 
Henry Kissinger former secretary of state 



IEWPOINT 
O
THE 
Monday, October 30, 2000 BSERVER page 11 
Offering a 
•
progressive alternative 

This election. voters have a choice. We can use our nation's economic prosperity as a cover to dismantle our social programs, increase corporate welfare and give tax cuts for the rich, or we can invest our prosperity in working Americans and build a just society. 
Taking a look at the candidates, there are many students who will choose to vote for Gore and with reason. The Democrats arc the party of the upper-middle class, 
Aaron Kreider
putting a liberal face on a system of profound injus­tice. They offer mild reforms to ease our consciences, while tens of millions of Americans continue to live in poverty, without health insurance, lacking decent Think, housing and public education -all while the rich get Question, richer. Some students who are more honest about 
Resist 

their interests, ancl/or who hope to reach the top 5 percent of America thanks to a Notre Dame educa­tion, will vote Republican. 
Now, for the remaining students who actually believe in a preference for the poor and oppressed, fortunately this election you have a decent alter­native. 
The Green party ticket of Ralph Nader and Winona LaDuke stands in sharp contrast to the other two parties due to its profound support for pro­gressive social change. On taxes, the Republicans focus tax relief on the rich (for example, the estate tax), the Democrats would enact a complicat­ed plan that only fine-tunes an unjust system, but the Greens would sup­port a negative income tax that will be designed to totally eliminate pover­ty. For at least 40 years, if not longer, the U.S. has had the financial resources to reduce poverty (currently at 12 percent -unchanged since 20 years ago) to a couple percent. But as corporations and the rich have controlled our government. it has failed to act. Greens believe that the elite who benefit from our economy should pay their fair share and they believe in using tax policy to ensure economic justice. 
The Republicans and Democrats would fiddle with health care, but the Greens would implement national single payer health care. This would save the economy hundreds of billions of dollars through efficiency gains and insure over 40 million people who are not covered. 
While the Democrats outdo the Republicans in promises to increase mili­tary spending, the Greens recognize that the Cold War is over and that the 
U.S. already spends several times that of all its possible adversaries. The Greens would transfer military spending to human needs, like housing and education. 
Again the two main parties cooperate to implement corporate-sponsored globalization, placing power in the hands of unaccountable international bodies like the WTO, IMF and World Bank. There is a "race to the bottom" with corporations moving production to countries with the lowest wages and environmental standards in the world. Instead the Greens support fair trade, using trade to lift wages and uphold minimal environmental and labor standards. 
How are the Greens able to stand up for justice? By refusing corporation contributions, the Greens are the only significant independent political party in the United States. It is a grassroots party that is run by its mem­bers. As the only party that supports real campaign finance reform (pub­licly funded campaigns), the Greens would help others to also break away from their reliance upon the support of the power elite. 
Of course, Nader was intentionally excluded from the debates so that now standing at 5 percent in the polls he has no chance of winning. However, voting Green is a long-term strategy. On Nov. 7 the Greens will do better than any progressive presidential campaign since 1924. As Greens chapters spring up all over the country, some Greens will win local elections, several will get into state legislatures and eventually a couple might break through into Congress. If the Greens get 5 percent, then they will qualify for millions of dollars in public funding in 2004. It's also possi­ble that the Greens will merge with other progressive third party efforts like the New Party, the Socialists and the Labor Party and a new alterna­tive will emerge. In the worst case, even if progressives fail to create a strong party, we can be assured that the Democrats \Vill steal parts of our platform. 
In terms of integrity, Nader has devoted his life to working for the com­mon good, working for consumer and environmental protection that has saved thousands (if not hundreds of thousands) oflives. For ~O years he has donated half of his income to support non-profit organizations. Unlike Bush and Gore who spout off meaningless well-rehearsed applause-lines, Nader shuns these lines to focus on his message of replacing corporate dominance with a democratic civic culture which will engage people in pol­itics. 
Vote Nader tu walk with the poor and oppressed. And if you vote in Indiana. where Nader is a write-in. be sure to request a write-in ballot after you sign in and before you enter the voting booth. 
Aaron Kreider is a class traitor and last saw Nader speak while protest­ing his exclusion from the Oct. 17 presidential debates. His column appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not nec­essaril.lJ those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Choosing as Christians 
The inscription above the memorial door on the right side of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart may proclaim "God, Country, Notre Dame," but the relics of the saint beneath the main altar starkly challenge that motto. 
Today we celebrate the feast of Saint Marcellus, a saint and martyr who was a centurion in Northern Africa at the end of the third century under the Roman Emperor Diocletian. While at a celebration of the emperor's birthday in Tangiers. Marcellus decided that as a Christian, he could no longer be a soldier. Marcellus dropped his soldier's belt, the legion's standard of alle­giance, threw down his vine-switch, the sym­bol of an officer and threw down his arms. "l serve Jesus Christ. the Eternal King," he said, "from now on I serve your emperors no 
more." 
Following his arrest, Marcellus found him­self in court facing charges for his actions to which he stated, "I did throw down my arms, for it is not right for a Christian who serves the Lord Christ to serve also the demands of the world." Upon his condemna­tion to death, Marcellus answered those who passed judgment on him with the words, "May God bless you." On Oct. 30 in the year 298 A.O. he was beheaded. 
The relics or bones, of saints and martyrs like Marcellus are vitally important, for they serve as a reminder to us that the glory of God is not beyond human history but among us, present and active in our lives. The relics of Marcellus are a tangible reminder to us that we as Christians are called to lives of love that are contrary to the ways of the world. They also show us that living for God entails dying to one's self and that some­
-... 
I • -,. 
I : 
I --I I 
Changing the system 
If Americans can take anything from the 2000 campaign season, it is several lessons about the inadequacies of our political sys­tem. While we are fond of bragging to the world of our strong, participatory democra­cy, a closer look reveals several flaws in the system. Here are five necessary democratic reforms that will strengthen American democracy. 
First, shorten the campaign. Simply put, we get tired of these guys. The campaign no longer begins with the primaries, Hush and Gore declared their candidacies in early 1999. Sixteen months of hearing politicians is too much for us to bear and too much for anyone to afford. We should follow Canada's example: on Oct. 22. the election season began for a vote scheduled for Nov. 27. 
Second, eliminate the electoral college. Our current system elects not a President of the United States but a President of swing states. The candidates spend their time in and tailor their message to, a handful of close, elec­torally-rich states while ignoring smaller or predetermined states altogether. A direct vote in which one candidate must receive more than 50 percent to win is the best option; a compromise might be a system in which the electoral college remained, but its votes are divided according to the percentage in each state (like Nebraska and Maine now). 
Third, voting should be required by law. Americans are, in large part, removed from the political system and spoiled. This doesn't times that death is not simply metaphorical. 
Notre Dame is a school that is concerned with tradition. Father Sorin himself sent for and secured the relics of Saint Marcellus in 1847 having them transported across the Atlantic so that they might find a place here at the heart of Our Lady's University. 
So let us then honor the life and death of the martyr Saint Marcellus by evaluating our own allegiances. Let us ask hard questions about what "God, Country, Notre Dame" really means to us and to our University community and what that should mean to us as Christians. Let us also realize our impli­cation and participation in human systems of domination that utilize and perpetuate vio­lence, injustice and oppression, both person­al and institutional. to gain wealth and power. Let us seek forgiveness for those times when we have served and worshiped the "gods and emperors" of thls world. Most importantly, though, let us also recommit ourselves everyday to service of and total allegiance to Jesus Christ, the Lord and true King of all the Universe and all of history. 
The entire University community is invited to gather together and celebrate the life and death of the martyr Saint Marcellus as our Lord taught us to celebrate, by attending Mass at 5:15 p.m. on Monday in the place where the relics of this prophetic voice reside, the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Shawn Storer 
semor Siegfried Hall October 29, 2000 

mean all Americans must vote; they can sim­ply show up and leave their ballot blank. It does mean they must participate in the most important part of citizenship in a democracy. Voting is more fundamental than paying taxes or jury duty and those are required by law. 
Fourth, either the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November ought to be made a national holiday or election day should be moved to Sunday, as is the case in most European democracies. Part of the reason voter turnout is so low is that many Americans can't or don't have the energy to make it to the polling place on a workday. 
Finally end opinion polls 10 days before election. While opinion polls am meant to reflect the voters' feelings on the candidates, they often influence them just as much. Many nations cut-off opinion poll publication as far as two weeks in advance of election day. This allows voters to decide for them­selves, free of bandwagon tendencies, who they will select. This year's election is a per­fect case in point: if opinion polls had been stopped on Oct. 27, no voter could have been influenced by a seemingly neck-and-neck race. 
Matt Caccamo off-campus senior October 28, 2000 

C 
s
en@ 
page 12 Monday, October 30, 2000 
=====-=-=-=--=-=-=-=-=-=---=--=-=-=~=-=-======================================================================-= 
Just when you thought it was saf 
J!alloween spawns spooky memories ofhaunted halls and Gipper's ghost 
Mor•e Spooky Stories 
. 
Fow peopln may know about the crnopy chronicles of night workers in the Main Building. but the night staff in the building can assure you th at strange things arc happ<1ning. According to Nanc} Franklin, a night cus­todiar., them is one room on the third noor of the golden domed building. that remain freezing cold at all times even though the thermostat is set at approximately 70 degrees. the same tempera­ture us the rooms surround­ing it, which remain warm and c,imfortablc. 

. 
It b rumorod that a priest or brother fell from the third l'loor rotunda of the main building and died. One security staff member has seen a young priest dressed in black, wearing an old­fashioned collar around his neck. The man was standing next lo the rotunda. 

. 
A peculiar event occurred in Farley Ilall this summer when it was housing a group of 14-year-old girls for a session of volleyball camp. After CHHl young camper entered her room and saw a girl approximately 18-years­old she immediately ran to the rectress, Sister Carrine Etheridge tu report she had seen a ghost. After she had calnrnd dC>wn the girl and sent her back to her dorm room. Carrinc turned on a news show. The report announced that this day. .luly 17. was th<) anniversary of' TW/\ Flight 800 Patty Kwiat would've been a senior in Farley in 1996. but she went down on 11ight 800, Carrinn said. Prior to lwr departure for France, Kwiat lived on the second l1oor the sanrn placci as the sighting. 

. 
Don't shed tears while yC>u arc working on tedious homework assignm<>nts ­one young f('male ghost is rumored to be pPrpetually w,ieping for all students in the llcsburgh library. 


By CHRISTINA MARTINI 
Scene Writer 
A student wanders through the 
darkness in the middle of the 
night and makes his way to the 
outdoor hand-pump outside 
Washington llall to quench his 
thirst. lie glances up from his 
drink and his blood freezes as he 
sees a ghostly white form 
immerse from a dark cluster of 
trees. 
The misty shape heads for the 
steps of Washingtcm Iiall and as 
it inched closer, the student 
believes he can make something 
out. 
!L's none other than football 
great George Gipp atop a white 
horse riding up the steps of 
Washington flail. When the stu­
dent looks again. the image has 
vanished. 
The ghostly ride ol' Gipp is just 
one of the many ghost stories 
surrounding Washington Hall. 
Ilair-rising rumors of ghosts in 
Washington Hall have been 
attributed to a number of 
sources. though the legend that 
the ghost of All-American foot­
ball player George Gipp is a 
favoritn of most Domcrs. 
After returning home late from 
a night at the bars, Gipp alleged­
ly slept on the steps of the hall to 
avoid problems with his rector. 
Unfortunately the extreme cold 
caused him to contract a fatal ill­
ness. I le died only a short time 
later on Dec. 13. 1920. 
Only a week after his death, the eerie .incidents began. According to a 1977 article in the South Bend Tribune, a student was writing his thesis late one night in Washington Hall when he was distracted by a rustling noise from under his door. He quickly locked it and grabbed his rosary beads. 
The following week the sight­ing of the Gipp on the white horse occurred on the lawn of Washington llall. When this story was recounted, some stu­dents laughed, but more began to wonder. 
Though the ghost of the Gipper was the first thing that came to mind, many other theo­ries began to surface. In 1919. one year before the death of Gipp, a student professor and very talented trumpet player. Jim Minaui, died in his room. llis death was not given much afterthought. until lhe events that followed the sighting or the night-riding Gipp. 
Around 3 a.m. one night, Joe Cassanta, one of the most famous Irish band directors and a resid1int of Washington Hall in 1920. was awakened by the sountl of a trumpet. The music was f'ollowcd by the sound of pattNing feet next to his bed. 
Feeling the presence of some­one in the room. fear came over Cassanta and he froze in his bed. Two nights later, another young man was awakened in the same manner. I le was so afraid that he couJcJ not muster up the courage to call on his roommate. 
There has been much dispute as to what the musical sounds may have actually been, but it is 

said that they continued in the 
hall for six months. Some say the 
music note WU.5 distinctly t.l1at of 
an E flat tuba. 
In addition to the story of 
Minaui, the tale of Brother 
Cajetan, who had playod fourth 
alto horn in the hall surfaced. It 
had been said, "When he's dead 
and buried his spirit will return 
and play the peck-horn." 
Others had their own suspi­cious speculations. It is rumored that one student confessed on graduation day that he had been behind this elaborate scheme and was creating the trumpet sounds for the past six months. He said he connected a rubber hose to a trumpet mouthpiece in the band room and then thread­ed the hose through a hole in the walJ all the way to outside. Ile was able to blow into the hose and create the notes. 
Many do not believe that this confession is enough to dismiss the uncanny events of that year. In 1978, Clarence Manion, a '21 graduate told The Observer his version of the ghost stories. 
Manion did not feel that the confession on graduation day was a valid explanation of the freaky episodes. 
"Ile couldn't have done it; it wouldn't add up," Manion said. "Nothing was piped through the wall. We had janitors and plumbers check through the building." 
Manion insisted that as far as he knew, almost all the incidents were real. 
"We couldn't exaggerate; there were too many witnesses to the thing," he said. 
He continued to say that they were never able to explain the door slamming and the walking down the stairs since the door was always locked. 
Manion also believes that the noise he heard was "a perfect B flat on something maybe a clar­inet'' that could be heard any­where in the hall. 
"The horn blowing became so 
commonplace that no one 
thought anything or it. It was just 
like a squeaking door," he said. 
Brother Maurilius. a resident 
of Washington llall in 1920 was 
once awoken in the middle of the 
night by "enough noisn to wake 
the dead," according to Manion. 
After the loud banging sounds, 
Maurilius heard the loud sound­
ing of a horn. Maurilius jumped 
from bed in hysterics. IJe refused 
to go back to sleep for the entire 
night and spent the wee hours of 
the morning praying in the 
chapel. 
Maurilius rushed to Provincial 
Charles O'Donnell's of'Oce the 
next morning and demanded an 
exorcism ofthe entire hall. 
"Somebody came over there 
with holy water one day," 
Manion said. 
Though Maurilius was scared out of his wits, Manion is quick to admit that this episode did not happen exactly the way Maurilius remembers it. 
According to Manion, Maurilius used to answer the ghost claims with, "These people drink too much coffee. I've lived here for live years and I've never heard the scratch of' a pin." It was the disbelief of Brother Maurilius that sparked what Manion calls "the only feature about the whole thing that was fake." 
The students were tired of the Maurilius' skeptical attitude and were frustrated that the ghost was not making his presence known to him. 
"We couldn't depend on the ghost; he wouldn't cooperate. We knew we had to do it in our own way," he said. 
The students in Washington lla!I brought iron dumbbells buck to the dorm and stored them in the dorm room right above Maurilius' bedroom. Late one night the guys strategically placed the dumbbells on the top bunk bed and at just the right moment pushed them onto the floor. Joe Cassanta planned to 


KYLIE CARTER/The Observer The Administration Building is home to many of Notre Dame's unexplained occurences. 
play the clarinet at just the right 
time. 
"Maurilius was in bed snor­

ing," Manion laughr.d. 
Though Maurilius was duped 

Manion did claim that after the 
exorcism, the f'rightnning ghost 
visil'i promptly ended. 
Claims of daunting visions and 

noises in the hall arc not only 
limited to the 20th Century. Until 
today spooky sightings have star­
tled many. 
Hoger /\lice, a member of the 

nighttime custodial staff in 
Washington Ilall has had his own 
experience with the ghost. 
Around July 15 this summer, 
Allee was resting in the worker 
break room located backstage in 
the hall and he claims to have 
felt a presence. lie quickly 
turned around the doorway and 
saw a transparent older man 
with a big grin. Aline asked him 
how he was doing and the man 
disappeared. 
Humor is that most of the 

nighttime workers in Washington 
Ilall have had some spooky exp1i­
riences. As Allee was cleaning a 
few yoars ago, he saw a shadow 
on the wall. 
"I looked back and there was 

no one there but the shadow 
kept getting biggPr and when I 
looked at the shoulders I knew it 
had to be a football player," h1) 
said. 
I le said to the ghost: 'Tm just doing my job. This is your build­ing and I'm just kenping it clean." The ghost did not bother him anymore that night. 
Though these ghost stories can never truly be explained. Father Robert Austgen, the chaplain of' health services at Notre Dame is on the trail of the ghouls and spiril'i that have been sited. 
Austgen began collecting ghost stories this summer and has already accumulated approxi­mately 20 anecdotes. 
Ile has even discovered the identities of some of the ghosts. lie has shown pictures to the people who have sighted the 
ghosts and they have identified 
the image in the picture and 
their ghostly visitor as one in the 
same on two separate occa­
sions. 
The most he would reveal is 

that the ghosts am people who 
have been here before. such as 
graduates and faculty, who am 
now dead . 
Austgen does not b1)1ieve that 

it is the Gippcr who haunts 
Washington Ilall. 
"I know he isn't the ghost. 

There are many stories about 
the students just playing 
around," he said. 
Perhaps Manion summed up 

the idea of the haunted halls of' 
Notre Dame the best when he 
dcscribnd what he folt about his 
experience in Washington Ilall. 
lie said, "It was just an unex­

plained phenomenon. We could 
never explain the door slam­
ming and the walking down the 
hall, they were just occummces 
that we heard, as real as any­
thing." 
Information for this story was 

collected from the Notre /Jame Archiues, The Obseruer and the South Bend Tribune. 

NSIDER 
~HE 
Monday, October 30, 2000 vnSERVER Notre Dame vs. Air Force 

ERNESTO LACAYO/The Observer 

Senior flanker Joey Getherall dives into the end zone on one of his three touchdowns in Notre Dame's 34-31 victory over Air Force Saturday. Getherall's efforts allowed the Irish to keep hopes of a Bowl Championshtp Series game alive. 
Getherall's offense grants Irish 34-31 victory 
ByTIMCASEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
As a native of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., Dave Adams spent many Saturday afternoons rooting for the University of Miami footbal-l team. So when "Air Force 20, Notre Dame 17" scrolled across the bottom of the television screen in the early evening hours of Oct. 19, 1996, the 17-year old high school senior was elated. 
"I despised Notre Dame," Adams said. "Growing up a Hurricanes fan, you always wanted Notre Dame to lose." 
On Saturday, Adams, now Air Force's place kicker, had a chance to shatter the Irish's Bowl Championship Series chances and provide the Falcons with another South Bend afternoon to cherish. With three sec­onds remaining in regulation and the game tied at 28, the senior lined up for a 28-yard field goal in the south end zone. Four years earlier, Dallas Thompson (Air Force's current punter) nailed a 27-yarder in overtime for the 
win. 
"The kick was from the same exact spot and from the same exact end zone," Adams said. 
The result was the exact opposite. Glenn Earl, who was supposed to watch for a fake, instead leapt high in 
Earl blocks Adams' field goal attempt to force overtime 
the air and blocked Adams' attempt. And after Joey Getherall's 9-yard touchdown run in overtime, an unan­ticipated thriller ended in a 34-31 Irish victory. Notre Dame stands at 6-2 on the season with three games remain­ing and moved up to No. 15 in the Associated Press poll and No. 16 in the USA Today/ESPN Coaches' poll. 
Excitement? Relief? Disbelief? 
All three emotions (and several more) came to the minds of Irish play­ers and coaches following the 25th meeting between the two teams. Ahead 28-10 with less than 12 minutes left, Notre Dame allowed two touch­downs, a field goal and the legion of Irish fans to again question coach Bob Davie. 
Did the defense "collapse," Coach? 
"I don't know if that's a collapse," Davie said. "I think that's a pretty good offensive football team." 
It was the same unit that gained 2B yards in the first three quarters, including just 37 during the third. Air Force's option running game, ranked fourth in the nation entering Saturday, managed 206 yards, 70 yards below their average. 
But three days before Halloween, the unlikely combination of quarter­back Mike Thiessen and 6-foot-5 receiver Ryan Fleming tricked the Irish defense and spooked the 80,232 in attendance with a memorable fourth quarter performance. 
Forget the B-52 Bombers flying over the Stadium on Saturday. The Air Force tandem may have put on the best aerial show seen this season. 
A trio of plays in the final 15 min­utes sparked the Falcons. On the first drive of the quarter, Fleming's 10-yard reception on 3rd and 11 allowed his team not to have to punt on fourth down. 
Two plays later, Air Force narrowed the lead to 28-17. After scoring anoth­er touchdown on the next possession, Air Force got the ball back at its own 5-yard line. With 5-foot-9 Irish corner­back Shane Walton covering him. Fleming made a one-handed grab along the left sidelines for a 42-yard reception. 
Adams' 34-yard field goal just over two minutes later tied the game. Then on the final possession of regu­lation, Thiessen and Fleming hooked 
up once again on first down for a 46­yard gain. 
For the game, Thiessen completed 17-of-29 passes for 265 yards and two touchdowns. Fleming gained 163 yards on eight catches. 
"The kid was unreal," Adams said of Fleming. "He played like an All­American." 
Said Fleming: "To be honest, I really wasn't all out there.-I was just going through the motions. I guess I just got in a zone." 
Notre Dame's offense did not help a defense that allowed 258 fourth-quar­ter yards. In the fourth quarter, the Irish failed to gain a first down and had 15 total yards, including an illegal procedure penalty. 
Although Julius Jones gained 118 yards and Matt Lovecchio threw for 171 yards, the offensive hero for the Irish was Getherall. 
When his team needed a score, the 5-foot-8, 170-pound senior delivered. During a timeout, receivers coach Urban Meyer told Getherall, who already had two touchdowns, that they would run a "Z-reverse." 
"Coach Meyer looked at me and said you're getting the ball," said Getherall, who had four catches for 116 yards and carried twice for 22 yards. "[Meyer said), you better be ready." 
He was. And thanks to the speedy Getherall, Notre Dame's BCS hopes are still alive. 


player of the game  quote of the game  stat of the game  
Glenn Earl The sophomore safety blocked  "At the end ofthe third quarter. the mindset was, 'We're allfinished.  Falcons: 272 yards 4th quarter offense Irish: 45 yards 4th quarter offense  
David Adams' 28-yardfield goal attempt with three sec­onds left in regulation to send the game into overtime.  We just have to run the time out."' Tony Driver lrlsh free safety  The Irish had the game in hand, but nearly gave away the win by collapsing on offense and break­ing down on defense.  

Monday, October 30, 2000 

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
report card 

8-
quarterbacks: Lovecchio threw three 
touchdown passes but completed 
only 40% ofpasses. The most important statistic? LoVecchio's 4-0 as a starter. 
running backs: The Irish relumed lo a one-man backfield and Jones deliv­ered with 111 yards. Two reverses for touchdowns were a plus but consis­t<mcy was a problem. 


receivers: Getherall's the most unlikely go-to receiver in the country. C,'ivens had another solid game. Fisher and Givens each dropped a pass. 
offensive line: Paved the way for 212 yards on the ground. Hut several times, Jones was stuffed on first down between the tackles. Maybe the pre­dictability led to the lack ofsuccess. 
defensive line: Contained the option 
attack as the Falcons averagedjust 
3.9 yards per carry. Pressured Thiessen consistently until the fourth quarter. Scott and Legree each had 6 tackles. 


linebackers: Denman again led the team with .11 tackles. The senior also recorded two .'>acks and forced two fumbles. Boiman had the other Irish sack. 
defensive backs: Hven without Clifford 
Jefferson. the backfield played their worst game of the year. Thiessen and Fleming made Air Force look 
like Florida's 'Fun N' Gun· passing 
game. 


special teams: Without Earl, the lrish 
haters would have multiplied. The 
kickoffreturn team is as good as 
ang in the country. The unit has 
saved the team all year. 

c; 
coaching: !Jlame the defense or coach­ing on the fourth quarter collapse? 
Both. The "this was an excellent team" line by Davie when referring 
lo Air Force does not help his public 
perception. 
overall: The Irish won despite numerous slip-ups, 
keeping their BCS hopes alive for another week. 

2~.79 
adding up the numbers 
number of overtime 
o 
games won by Notre Dame prior to Saturday. 
1 
fumbles lost bv the Irish, the first of the season. 
points allowed by Noire Dame in the fourth quar­
18
ter. 
yards yielded by the Irish in the fourth quarter.
258 
yards gained by Air Force In the first three 
197
quarters. 
3 
number of 8-52 Bombers thal flew over 
the Stadium. 
percentage of carries by Julius Jones, of the 47 total 
57
Irish carries. 
5 
number of touchdowns by 
Notre Dame wide receivers. 
accounting for all the scores. 
INSIGHT 


Every time the Irish step on the field they are graded. Each play they make is analyzed by their fans and critics alike. 
So how will Glen Earl's game-saving field goal block on Saturday against the Falcons ofAir Force be grad­ed? 
As a missed assignment if you want to get technical. 
"I wasn't the designated leaper," Earl said. "I was supposed to give Tony Weaver a push and look for a fake. So I guess I'll get a misassignment for that. I got a little excited, but I'll take it." 
If Bob Davie and his coaching staff want to play by the rules, they will grade Earl's play for precisely what it was and dock him the five points on the special team's production board for not completing his designated task. 
"We get graded on how well we produce on special teams," Earl said. "I really hope they don't dock me for blocking the kick. But that board might be minus a couple points from Wednesday." 
IL could be, but it shouldn't be. 
Forget subtracting five points for missing an assignment. Give Earl the three points for a key block, another three points for a great effort and multiply that number by 100 for sav­ing not only the game, but Notre Dame's season and Bowl Championship Series bid hopes. 

Notre Dame's fourth-quarter per­formance in its 34-31 overtime win against Air Force is telling of Notre Dame's entire season: struggling at first, seeing a potential loss in sight and then pulling out all the stops when it counts. It makes fans want to tear their hair out, but leaves them smiling in the end. 
Irish starting quarterback Arnaz Battle breaks his wrist and is out for the season, throwing a huge kink in the the Irish offensive scheme. But back up quarterback Gary Godsey saves the day with a solid perfor­mance and Nick Setta kicks the game winning field goal as time expires in a huge win over Purdue. 
Godsey's limited style later cripples the Irish offense. Leaving no one but quarterbacks with only high school experience to take the helm, the offensive ailments seem incurable. But freshman Matt LoVecchio steps into his role like a veteran and has not lost a game since he started. 
Stanford ruins what would be an easy win for Notre Uame when it scores with just over a minute remaining to bring the game within six points and uses an onside kick to try to keep its offensive crusade alive, but Jabari Holloway recovers the ball to preserve the Irish win. 
The Irish step on the field at Morgantown and allow the 

Mountaineers to run over the Notre 
Dame defense. giving up a touch­
down on West Virginia's first posse­
sion, but then step it up when it 
counts to bring home a decisive vic­
tory. 

Struggling at first, seeing a poten­tial loss in sight and then pulling out all the stops when it counts. 
Davie called Saturday's game a "great college football game" and said "You gotta love it, gotta love it." 
Not everyone would agree. 
So if you want to get technical, grade Notre Dame's performance Saturday as sub-par. The Irish were flat in the first half, scoring only seven points before having a stellar 21-point third quarter. They blew an 18-point lead in the fourth quarter, allowing an Air Force team that had no business being close at the end to push the game into overtime. 
But if you want to look at the big picture. even though the Irish should never have been in that position, they dug in their heels and came up with the necessary play to pull out a win. Bottom line: they got tlrn job done. 
Ifyou want to get technical. dock Earl the live points for not doing his job. When he should have been watching for an Air Force fake, he was doing Tony Driver's job and blocked the field goal. Bottom line: he got the job done. 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Monday, October 30, 2000 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Defense crumbles in final period against Falcons 
By MOLLY McVOY Sports 'X'riter 
For the early part of this season, it was solid defense that won games for the Irish. It looked like that was going to be the case for the first three quarters of Saturday's game against Air Force. 
In the first three quarters, Notre Dame's defense allowed 10 points. three passing plays for more than 10 yards and 199 total yards. It looked like the ever-consistent defense was going to hold on for another solid victory. At the beginning of the fourth quarter, the offense had scored 21 unanswered points, and it appeared that the Irish were on their way for another easy win. The game was a Jock, or sci everyone thought. Even Tony Driver. 
"At the end of the third quarter, the mindset was 'we're all finished, we just have to run the time out,'" Driver said. 
Then the fourth quarter began. The Falcons scored 18 points, com­pleled nine pass plays for 10 yards or more and gained 272 yards in total offense. 
When asked about the apparent breakdown of the defense in the fourth quarter, Davie attributed it to solid offensive play by the Academy, not a defensive collapse. 
"I wouldn't say we just collapsed and turned wide open," Davie said. "I saw a bunch of guys playing pret­ty darn hard out there. And give this Air Force team a little bit of credit. To say we collapsed would be taking credit away from an Airforce team that gave a tremendous effort today." 
Whether it was an Irish defensive collapse or brilliant offense by the Falcons, the fact remains that the Falcon offense took control of the game their 6-foot-5 wide receiver, Ryan the afternoon, and explained that it Improving the secondary will be a in the fourth quarter. Fleming. In spite of a dislocated shoul­was Fleming's athleticism that allowed goal for the Irish in their aim for a bid 
After allowing only 34 yards in total der, Fleming fooled the Irish secondary him to gain so many yards in the fourth at a Bowl Championship Series game. offense in the third quarter, the Irish throughout the game, especially in the quarter. "We're concerned about (coverage)," defense gave up three plays that went fourth quarter. In the fourth quarter "That receiver was 6'5" with some Davie said. "We have to get better for 30 yards or more in the fourth alone, Fleming caught 120 yards in hands on him," Driver said "He's a defensively. I think we have a realistic quarter. passing, including two passes that went good player. He had decent speed and view of where we are. We've got some 
Air Force head coach Fisher DeBcrry for more than 40 yards. Fleming's suc­we played man-to-man. It's hard guys who are playing extremely hard. was not sure what made the fourth cess went hand in hand with a high guarding that." But we just have to continue to get bet­quarter different from the rest of the number of completions by senior quar­His height proved to be too much for ter and particularly on defense right game. terback Mike Thiessen. Thiessen threw the Notre Dame defense at the end of now to make a run these last three 
"They [the Irish] played very, very for 195. yards in the fourth quarter the game, and Fleming provided the games." well," DeBerry said. "I don't know if alone, and gained 265 yards in the air spark that Air Force needed to send the The defense pulled through as the their guys got a little bit tired or not, overall. game into overtime. clock ran out, but the team agreed that but I thought our guys were very deter­"He's probably the best throwing "We kind of had a mismatch with they need to close games in the future. mined in what they were doing." quarterback we've seen all season," [Fleming], a really tall receiver," defen­"We've got to start putting pressure 
Much of the Falcons' offensive suc­senior Anthony Denman said. sive coordinator Greg Mattison said. on them, offensively and defensively cess in the fourth quarter was due to Driver covered Fleming for most of "They were really on today." early," Driver said. 

scoring summary & stats 
scoring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th OT Total team Notre Dame O 7 21 0 6 34 Air Force 
1 Oklahoma O 10 0 18 3 31 
2 Vtrgillll Te&b 
team statistics ND AF
3 Mlaml{Fla~) 
first downs 19 27
4 Florida Slate 
rushes-yards 47-212 53-206
5 Nebraska .. 
;'·.-:;; 

..,. ·' passing-yards 171 265
6 Florida 7 Oregon ·... \ ... t7 comp-att-int 10-25-0 17-29-0 
,7;
ll wamington return yards 164 88 9 TCU ·r punts-yards 7-264 6-224 1.0 c1e111,on s· fumbles-lost 1-1 3-1 11 Purdue /1 
penalties-yards 6-52 3-14 
·:: .

12 Michigan" 
time ofpussession 29:08 30:52
13 . So'. MissfsS!pJil . . <''.fi.f} C;, 
14 oregan,staw> ,···\/J;''J<,i; individual statistics 15 NOTIUHJAME · ,·,···lfi:tt>'•·<''···· passing 
16: Oltlo Stale 
' ·/oiZ:: ;t,:;:•• ND -Lovecchio 10-25-0-171 A.F -Thiessen 17-29-0-265 17 GHrgia e!6•:t<"''·',: rushing
1$ . ' Mlss1sslpi>1 st!lte ..... 
;!jI·:',•·•.··•·,.. ND -Jones 27-111, Givens 1-37, Getherall 2-22, fisher 8­
19 Kansas siai. 
21, Lovecchio 7-18, Howard 1-4 20 '' Tttas <ft4·.·,i ,--1F -Thiessen 17-55, Brown 11-42, McKay 6-41, Becker 9­
21 Na11bwestttll 
35, Palmer 6-21, Beard 3-8, Amezaga 1-4 
22 Soutlt Cllfollna 
receiving

23 Alillum 
ND -Getherall 4-116, Hunter 2-26, Givens 2-16, Fisher 1­24 TaxasA&M 
7, Jones 1-6

25 Georgia Te$ti> ,1F -Fleming 8-163, Brown 2-19, Palmer 2-17, Jessop 1­30, McKay 1-14, LaBasco 1-12, Amezaga 1-5, Beard 1-5
other teaifis:rece' 
leading tacklers 

145, W~!'m Nlmbi!l-llft J 
ND -Denman 11, Williams 9, Walton 8, Earl 8, Bolman 8,
State 211 UC~.1l;Ie,Qn 
5,.Arizona state 4, A11zo11 Scott 6, Legree 6 AF -Pommer 11, Zanotti 10, Pendry 9, Meinrod 8, Johnson 8, Glisson 7 
scoring summary 1st 
no scoring 
2nd ND -12:52 Hunter 10-yd. pass from LoVecchio, Setta kick 7-0 AF -8:07 Palmer 23-yd. pass from Thiessen, Adams kick7-7 AF -3:06 Adams 27-yd. FG 10-7 
3rd I\V -12:04 Getherall 28-yd. 
pass from LoVecchio, Seda kick 14-10 ND -3:17 Givens 37-yd. run. 
Setta kick 21-1 o ND -:46 Getherall 68-yd pass from LoVecchlo, Setta kick 21-10 
4th AF -11 :10 Jessop 30-yd. pass from Thiessen, Adams kick 28-17 AF -6:09 Giovanetti 0-yd. fum­ble recovery, McKay rush 28-25 AF -1:56 Adams 34-yd. FG 28­28 
Overtime AF -Adams 26-yd. FG ND -Getherall 9-yd. run 


O
THE 

Notre Dame vs. Air Force BSERVER Monday, October 30, 2000 
The Irish staved off a pesky Falcons' team despite a 
defensivfl letdown in the fourth quarter. It took a blocked field goal by Glenn Earl and an overtime touch­down by Joey Gcthcrall to preserve the victory. With the win. Notre Dame improved to 6-2 and became bowl eli­gible. It wasn't pretty, but it was a win. 
TOUCHDOWN JESUS SMILES ON IRISH 
ERNESTO LACAYO/The Observer 

5-foot-7 receiver Joey Getherall gets pounced on by a slew of Irish teammates, all cele­
brating his game-winning touchdown. Leprechaun Mike Brown stands by ready to get in 
on the action. 



ERNESTO LACAYO/The Observer A perfect toss by freshman Matt Lovecchio slides through receiver Javln Hunter's hands. Hunter made up for the missed catch by grab­bing a touchdown pass. 


Monday, October 30, 2000 page 13 
to return to your dorm room••• 
The ghosts ofSaint Marys continue to watch over campus 
but others claim that thf' sil­found the sub­
By LAURA BOST 
houette is more than a mere stance impos­
Scene Wri,cr 
coincidence. Students believe sible to 
she watches over Regina Hall remove. A few 
Fog settles upon the lake and and that her spirit will remain days later, she masks Saint Mary's College in on campus indefinitely. pulled out the a shroud of mystery. The illu­Presently, Saint l\Iary's stu­iron and the minated bell tower of Le Mans dents claim the ghosts have red had disap­looms over campus creating an been appearing Jess often, but peared. Alex's ominous atmosphere. As the the effects of their hauntings roommate lights dim after parietals, the have become more frequent. attests she did old buildings fill with creaks Residents of Le Mans and Holy not clean the and groans. /\ bang and a cry Cross claim doors open and iron. are audible in the night. A close by themselves and pic­The second woman turns to her roommate, tures securely fastened to the floor of Le "What was that noise? Did you wall suddenly° fall off. Students Mans also see that?" she questions. have even seen forms emerge boasts unex­
Are these phenomena merely from walls and posters. plained noises figments of the imagination? Strange banging sounds on the and sightings.Many students and alumni frames of bunk beds, the ring­Between urge the skeptics that these ing of unplugged phones and rooms 2 7 4 to truly arc the bewitching hours. the skyrocketing volume 273, an RA 
For years the-weaving of ofstereos have also been claims to have ghost stories has been a reported. seen a strange favorite pasttirne at Saint Nicole Mann of Le Mans said blob floating 
..
Mary's. The rich historical tra­that clothes, videotapes and down the hall­dition of the College encour­food disappear from her room way. Students ages these tales. In addition, and then reappear a few days say it is the Saint Mary's boasts a collec­later. "My friends and room­ghost of tion of unusual events and mates have sworn they are not "Marv" who mysterious deaths. responsible for the disappear­hung· herself 
"In order to explain events ances," she said. in room 274. where there are no explana­Nicole's roommate, Quinn In support of tions, students create justifica­Smith, has even started leaving these rumors, .. tions in the form of ghost sto­out piles of Wurther's Originals a couple of 
ries," said Saint Mary's candy for their ghost. years ago 
an 
archivist John Kovach. SMC Senior Mariecruz alumnae in "Whether or not you believe Cegura, also from Le Mans and her 80s visited these ghost stories is up to you, Amv Lazzorotto from Holv room 274 
but they are part of the Cross Hall report oddities a~ and told the College's oral tradition." well. Cegura maintains that girls that it 
Kovach recounts the tale of a her television independently was her room­student buried in the grave­turns on and always to channel mate who yard behind Regina Hall. This 95. Lazzortto said that her hung herself. cemetery is usually reserved snow globes play music with­
Saint Mary's The silhouette of St. Mary's student Zellie Selby, who died in 1870 at age 20,
for nuns, but in 1870, 20-year­out being wound. has no record 
appears to be outlined on the base of her grave. 
old Zellie Selby was buried Additional strange events of this partic­there. Iler death was attrib­have taken place in Le Mans. ular incident uted to a sudden illness. silence. crawl space above their room,
Sophomore Alex Parilli says on file. Selby's father was a travel­her roommate's mother saw Also, many women claim Regina women resorted to Saint Mary's security
even ing Tennessee judge and failed someone walk into their room. they have heard a crying baby banding together to retrieve could not attribute the noise to to establish a residence, so her When she swung the door open in the showers of Queen's suitcases. Others had their pipes or rodents. These women 
courageous Notre Dame guy also reported the appearance
body was never sent home. no one was there. Court. Archivist John Kovach 
Selby was put to rest under a friends go down to the base­of' a mysterious black glove
This comes as no surprise to says someone died in the Le 
huge monument, but after a ment and consequently made and disappearance of an angel
Alex, for another mysterious Mans during the early 1970s. 
closer examination it appears event happened earlier in the It is rumored that this death believers of them too. After pin and an Italian glass pen­accompanying his Saint Mary's dent. The ghost may be one of
that this is not an ordinary year. Alex's shorts became was a stillborn baby left in the gravestone. It seems as though streaked with a red substance bathroom. For confirmation of friend, a once fearless Notre the farmers whose grave was 
a young woman's silhouette is after ironing them. She turned the death, students will have to Dame male said, "There is relocated during the construc­
outlined on the base of the something definitely messed tion of Holy Cross Hall in 1902­
over the iron and found it cov­wait 75 years until the coro­
monument. Some say it is just ered with a red film. In vain up about that place." 03. According to archivist John 
ner's reports are open to the from the "aging" of the stone, Alex tried to scrub it off and public. Along with recent hauntings, Kovach, "Some say ghosts there are the classic ghost sto­wander because their graves
According to the Saint 
ries of Saint Mary's. Every have been disturbed." 
Mary's Archives Narrative on 
freshman knows the rumor These haunting stories have
Dec. 6, 1990 a student's body that someone hung his or her­solely survived through oralwas found at 7:30pm in her self in the Le Mans bell tower. tradition, but now three Saintroom. Popular belief pinpoints Was it a construction worker Mary's students, Veronicathe room of' the suspected sui­or a disgruntled student? In Kessenich, Shelly Houser, andcide to be on the fourth floor of any case, they too haunt Le Kristen Matha, are compiling aLe Mans. It is said that this Mans with the women with the book of Saint Mary's ghost sto­student along with the crying red cape and the man in the ries. These students received ababy dwell in the shadows of 
denim overalls. grant from The Leaders of aLe Mans Hall. 
The woman in the red cape New Indiana. They hope toUnlike Le Mans, Regina is a is a nun who was reported to have the book published by thenewer residence hall, yet still extinguish the candles in the week after spring break.
has places where its residents chapel. When students asked Veronica explains, "This booksay ghosts haunt. The Regina about her, the college said is historically based and willwomen know the basement is there was no woman employed weave both the history of SMC
the ghosts' favorite abode. ... 
to tend to the candles. Still, and urban legend together." 
Every night before a break, 
students claim to occasionally Any students or alumni with
students have gone to the 
see an apparition of her. ghost stories are encouragedbasement to retrieve their suit­The man in the denim over­to immediately send their tales
cases. 

alls has been sighted around to quiethours@saintmarys.edu.
During the early morning 
401 Le Mans. Former residents In the meantime, if youhours, when onlv one student in 1995, Maureen Bransfield desire more chilling stories
was in the basement. unex­
and Michaela Corcoran, say he take a walk through the resi­plainable slams of wardrobes 
is responsible for incessant dence halls as darkness
opening and closing could be rhythmic banging. These nois­envelops the campus. Maybeheard. If a student stayed long
KRIS KAAI/The Observer 

es began every night after mid­the spirits will grant you a taleenough to listen, barely audi­
Ghostly happenings, such as disappearances and strange 
nigh1. After examining the of your own to tell.
ble voices broke the eerie
noises, have been said to occur in the halls of Le Mans. 


page 14 Monday, October 30, 2000
The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL PLAYOFFS 

Veselik leads Howard past Cavanaugh in round 1 action 
Olszowy led By UA MILHOAN and SUSIE Cavanaugh one more offensiveCARPENTER 

attack. Olszowy passed to 
Sport, Wriccrs 

Mandy llcimcr for a first down. 
Olsowy then threw to a streak­Iloward Ilall avenged iL<; regu­ing Melissa Marcotte along the lar season loss to Cavanaugh right sideline. Marcotte tippedand came away with a 20-13 
the ball over the head of a 
win Sunday to send the Ducks Howard defender. hauled in the 

into the semi-finals. 

pass, and ran to the IO-yard"We were led by our offensive line. From the 10, Olszowy ran line, said lloward coach Brad the ball in Lo close out the fist 
Un tied t. "They led us with a half' scoring leaving Cavanaugh 

solid game." 

down by only one, 14-13, at The Howard offense struck 
halftime. 
first. Led by quarterback Jill In the second hall', Howard Vcsclik, IInward marched down offensive stayed focused and the lield. Vcselik ran for a lirst 

Vcselik engineen~d another 
down and completed thrre pass­scoring drive. After completing es to receiver Elizabeth Klimek 

passes to Klimek and Emily
to put lloward at Cavanaugh's Borg, Vesclik ran 15 yards to the onr.-yard line. Vcsclik threw her Cavanaugh 22. She then lrnoked lirsl touchdown pass of the day up with Klimek who made a div­to Vanessa Nero and completed ing catch at the one-yard line.

-a pass to captain Jeanne 
Veselik then threw to Klimek for 
'!'release for the extra point 

her third touchdown pass of the which put Howard ahead 7-0. 
game.
But the Cavanaugh offense Cavanaugh refused to back 

wasted no time in responding. 

down and worked the ball to 
Quarterback Mandy Helmer 

Howard's 32-yard line with just
completed a l 5 yard pass for a under Lhrce minutes remaining. ing the stadium this year. "Our about to be tackled, yet, she With such aggressive playfirst down to move the Chaos Lo However, on second down, Lynn main goal is the stadium, but would simply toss the ball back from Badin and Off-Campus, the their own 30. Un the next play, 
Olszowy's pass to the end zone we're taking it one game at a to her teammate who ran for game remained scoreless at Heimer dodged defenders at the was intercepted by Howard's time." said Kate Cawley. extra yardage. Running back halftime and through the major­line of scrimmage and sprinted Emily Borg. Howard ran out the Francesca Delayo evaded multi­ity of the second. However, with past them 50 yards for a touch­clock to secure the 20-13 victo­ple tackles and gained several only a couple of minutes
Off-Campus 6, Badin 0
down. Cavanaugh converted on ry. first downs for her team. remaining on the clock, Stouffer
The Off-Campus Crime stole
the extra point attempt as 

-"We had a great season." another win as they defeated the However, OfT-Campus had dif­threw a pass to Keane for the Megan Land hauled in a pass Cavanaugh player Mandy ficulty converting their trickery touchdown.
Bullfrogs of Badin yesterday
from Heimer to even thescore at Reimer said. "We hate to see into a touchdown. Badin's Despite a tough loss, Badin
afternoon in a score of 6-0.
7-7. our season end to a team we defense muscled through the coach Brett Gansen was proud
"It was a little bit closer than
The Ducks again systematical­beat in the regular season. defensive line to apply pressure of his team and credited The
what we would have like, but we
ly worked their way down the to quarterback Jamie Stouffer. Crime for their strong perfor­
There were some penalties that picked it up," said Crime co-cap­
field led by the savvy of Vesclik. hurt us and we couldnat recov­Molly Norton and Lindsey each mance. "It was a good game
tain Marita Keane. "We domi­
The offensive line gave Veselik had a sack on the day and overall and you have to give
er. Overall, we played well and 
nated throughout the game,
prolnction all game and allowed forced Stouffer to scramble on credit to their defense," he said. 
.. made ..good decisions on and, at the end, we finally broke her to find her receivers up field. offense. numerous plays . "We played well, but we didn't
them down." 
After running for the l'irst Coach Bart Bruckert offered a The story was the same for get the one big play that we
The two teams played each
down, Veselik completed passes similar view. "It was a tough the flip side: the Badin offense needed,"
other earlier in the season,
to Klimek as Howard came and Off-Campus defense.
loss," he said. "We played hard resulting in a 12-12 tie. The Iron Women of Off­knocking on the door once but ran into a tough lloward Quarterback Prissy Clements Campus now look to their game
However, there are no ties in
again. On second and goal at the team. Our girls are a great was confident in the pocket against Howard next weekend.
playoff action. In this firstCavanaugh one-yard line, 
bunch to work with. It's too bad thanks to good pass protection Coach Dan Laughlin acknowl­
round, with victory a necessity
Veselik completed her second her line. She lofted up a couple edged the talent of the Ducks,
we had to lose, but congratula­to avoid elimination, the intensi­
touchdown pass of the day to tions to of passes for receiver Betsy but the Crime are optimistic
ty was high for both OIT-Campus
Vanessa Nero. Klimek scored on Howard. We'll be back next Cavo, but Off-Campus had very about their chances. "If we exe­
and Badin. 
tho extra point to give Howard year." effective hassling techniques, cute well and play to our poten­
The Crime's offense was
the lead at 14-7. After losing in the lirst round batting down pass after pass tial, we can win. We arc pretty
determined to move down the
As the close of the first half of the playoffs last year, Howard field. Throughout the game, the and preventing the receivers fired up," said Coach Chris approached, quarterback Lynn from getting open. Mudd.
takes one big step toward reach-running back or receiver was 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 


ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE  HOUSES FOR RENT 1) 5-br  COACH. Need Jr. High boys bas­ #1 Spring Break 2001 -Cancun,  
LOST & FOUND  AM.· 232-2378 P.M. -288-2726  $1000/month 2) 4-br $1100/month 3)3-br $650/month. We'll make  ketball coach. Responsible, dependable student or grad to  Mazatlan, Acapulco, Jamaica, Florida &S.Padre. Reliable TWA  PERSONAL  
I NEED 4 BC TIX TOGETHER.  almost any changes to the houses.  coach 7-Bth grade basketball B- flights. Best Prices. Earn$$$ or  
FOUND  CAN PAY ONLY $200.  Call Bill at 675-0776.  team, Nov. 13-Feb 23; for south  FREE trips-call tor details!  Quality Copies, Quickly!  
TREK BIKE in parking lot one week  CALL  side elementary school, located  1.800.SURFS.UP www.studentex­ We're open early, late &weekends.  
ago  243-1621.  Students Wanted! Alum-owned  near Scottsdale Mall on Miami  .press.com  THE COPY SHOP  
CALL MA TT 4-4894  2stry 5-6 bdrm, 2 bath New: carpet,  Street. Musi be available for prac- La Fortune Student Center  
I need two tickets for the Boston  appliances, washer-dryer, furnace­ tices Mon-Thurs from 2:20-3:15.  Spring Break 2001 Book group of  
LOST on campus at Stanford game  College game  roof, & Security. Huge yard. 1 blk N.  Game schedule varies.  15 and GO FREEi Book before  Quality Copies, Quickly!  
1 1/2 inch thick gold bracelet  Contact Travis  of Club 23. $1375 inc. until. Call  Nov. 3 for FREE Meals!  
REWARD call Carol at 312-946­ 319-241-1082.  Jason 240-0322.  Officials Needed  Visit us at sunsplashtours.com or  WORK THE POLLS ELECTION  
1800.  Officials Needed tor Men and  call for tree info @  DAY, NOV7  
PAYING $50 EACH FOR ND VS  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT  Women Basketball. This is a great  1-800-426-771 0  6AM-6PM  
BOSTON COLLEGE TICKETS. 219  SCHOOL YEAR  opportunity to earn great money.  PAY $75  
TICKETS  289-8048.  NORTH OFND. GREAT AREA.  Contact the RecSports office (Peter Shoop or Jeff Walker) @ 631-6100  1996 PONTIAC GRAND PRIX SE 4-door, AT, White/Gray, 57K  YOU MUST BE 18YRS OLD. A RESIDENT OF ST. JOSEPH  
....  NEED TWO BOSTON COLLEGE  277-3097 .  or stop by the office in the Rolfs  All Power Options. Premium Audio  COUNTY, IN , AND A REGIS­ 
WANTED  G.A."S. PLEAES CALL MANY ARD  Sports Recreation Center today.  w/CD Changer. $8,250.  TEAED VOTER. IF YOU ARE  
ND FOOTBALL TKTS  AT 1-800-638-6963,  2520 sq. fl. home for sale or lease  You can also e-mail us at rec  272-5492. sport@nd.edu.  INTERESTED, CALL JOHN  
289-9280  X6093.  to buy in Knollwood  COURT AT VOTERS REGISTAA­ 
CAL WILL BE RETURNED ASAP.  Mocing. $174k.  TION, 235-9530.  
SELLING ND FOOTBALL TKTS  277-7992  FOR SALE  NOTICES  
251-1570 VICTORY TKTS  I FOR RENT  WANTED  SURVIVE SPRING BREAK 20011 ALL THE HOTTEST DESTINA­ COLLEGE SCHOLARSHIPS 300,000 + private sector scholar- Finn has Tourrettes ... poor Finn. Christine should make a ho-faced  
BUV-SELL'TRADE  ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE  TIONS/HOTELS! CAMPUS SALES  ships available for undergraduate  pumpkin named who?  
ND FOOTBALL  AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS  Need childcare in our Granger  REPRESENTATIVES AND STU- and graduate students al accredited  
232-0964  http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/  home, Tues. and Thurs. Must have  DENT ORGANIZATIONS WANT- colleges in the Usa regardless of  Trick or treat, spell my feet, tell me  
www. victoryt1ckets. com  ema1l:mmrnrentals@aol.com  transportation  EDI VISIT inter-campus.com or call  their GPA, finances, age or citizen- something good to eat. if you  
232-2595  Call 271-1935.  1-800-327-6013  ship.  don't. i don't care, you have to  
BUY/SELL  THE TRIBE HAS SPOKEN!  Write or call for FREE information  cheer for the chicago bears  
ND TICKETS  That Pretty Place, Bed and  NANNY WANTED:  and application  
273-3911  Breakfast Inn has space available  25-35 hrs/week.  '88 Ford Taurus, 6-cyl., stereo  Scholarship Database Service  5 am searches for little sisters are  
for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms  Contact Krista @  w/cassette player. Well maintained  PO Box432  what makes the world go 'round  
ND FOOTBALL TIX  with private baths, $80-$115,  425-793-1208  by responsible female  Notre Dame, IN  
WANTED  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus  for more info  $2,000/obo.  46556-0432  Dylan McKay ... 4 hrs a day on FIX,  
AM. · 232-2378  Toll Road, Exit #107,  or email  Lv. msg at  Barnyard8961@hotmail.com  the best network on television  
PM.· 288-2726  1-800-418-9487.  KROBKE@CERWER.COM.  291-5366.  1-800-936-3706  

------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Monday, October .30, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL PLAYOFFS 
Walsh takes PW into triple overtime with 25-18 win 
By U\UREN CONTI and 
COLIN BOYU\N 
Sports Writers 
The Wild Women of Walsh Hall eliminated the PW Purple Weasels 25-18 in triple over­time in the first round of the Women's Interhall Playoffs on Sunday at McGlinn Field. 
The thrilling match-up was finally terminated when PW failed to answer a touchdown by Walsh's Gretchen McIntyre. 
"It was incredible," said Walsh coach Steve Dillenburger of the intensely com pe titive game. "It really could have gone either way, but obviously we're glad we came out on top." 
The 6-6 score that necessitat­ed overtime was decided within the first five minutes of play. On 
Tttt:a·UttlVE~RSITY:. ;?f/i;JDEPART><E~ o, Mu_s•.c~u~f!~~r·•·P:;t;::•: 
,z.i,/:-u.l.:.-4-v-~ 
. ~-_::· . ·. ·...• 

.:JZ ·... .. ·.· ·. '... ·>·t•~.:.>•.
····.· . 
':.,,.•···r.ti·).u.

H ' .· .·..· . . . .. . 
e, 't-:1 t!, ,v . 
,-,~-·Eld···.. • 

. . }iticr;.;::i 
··=i 'I: ... . . ): \,( ' _: . THE 
•· ·. , Ocj-6sER , . 
::•:..,:~ 
.:"?\ 
·-. . ¥'-~-:~~rt::.. 
the Purple Weasels' first posses­sion at their own 20-yd line, quarterback Leslie Schmid found receiver and captain Amanda Gallen, who ran it in for the touchdnwn. 
"Amanda's catch was just great there -it gave us an early edge." said PW co-captain Kelly Dries. 
Walsh's Angela Polsinclli managed to thwart the ensuing one-point conversion, however, and Walsh answered quickly on their following possession. Alternate quarterback Gretchen McIntyre handed off to quarter­back Lauren Walsh, who then threw a 20-yd pass to receiver Anne Bodnovich. Receiver Kay Scanlan then put the Wild Women up on the board. 
"Lauren and Kay had a really terrific game together," said Dillen burger. 

"I was really impressed with 
our offense," said Walsh captain 
Melissa Heiting. "I thought they 
showed lhat they can move the 
ball at will against a pretty 
tough defense." 
The second half was charac­
terized by gridlock play. The 
teams appeared evenly 
matched, and neither was able 
to gain enough momentum for a 
successful scoring drive. 
When the clock ran out, the score was still Lied at 6-6. The Purple Weasels. starting from their own 10 yd line, scored on the first down with a pass to senior Kori Yelle, but were unable to make the 1 pt conver­sion. Walsh's ensuing posses­sion was riddled with penalty calls against both the offensive and the defensive squads, but the Wild Women still managed to tie the score courtesy of a Walsh pass to Scanlan. 
"[The penalties) were frustrat­ing," said Beiting. "I know sometimes we were making the errors, but it seemed sometimes that just as soon as we'd get some momentum, we'd get a penalty. I give credit to the coaches for making sure we kept our heads in the game." 
As play trailed into the third and final overtime, extending nearly a full half-hour longer than regulation time. energy on the field had reached an all­time high. Walsh had first pos­session. and the Wild Women were finally able to fully capital­ize as Walsh threw to McIntyre for a touchdown. The Wild Women then completed the first successful conversion of the game with a pass to receiver Jen Lynch. 
The Purple Weasels were unable to answer this final scor­ing drive. 
Schmidt's first pass attempt was batted down by Kahn, who also managed to take down Yelle on the following play. PW's fourth down and final chance to score was thwarted when Walsh defender Karina Mayorga intercepted the pass in the end zone. 
"We give a lot of credit to Walsh," said Baranowski. "It was a tight game. We're real proud of our team, though. They never quit." 
Walsh will advance to the sec­ond round of the playoffs next Sunday, facing off against Welsh, a team many have deemed a shoo-in for the title. 'Tm looking fonvard to Welsh," said Kahn. "If we go in there and play like we have been, watch out!" 
Welsh 14, Lyons 0 
It wasn't pretty, but top-seed­ed Welsh Family Hall played well enough to win their first round playoff game against eighth seed Lyons on Sunday. 
On a day when.neither team seemed ready to take control of the game, it was the Welsh defense that finally determined matters, intercepting three 

Lyons passes and generally . 
creating havoc on the opposing 
side of the ball. 
"Our defense gave an awe­
some effort today. On the whole, 
they were outstanding," said 
Welsh coach Casey Bouton. 
Defense seemed to be the pre­vailing theme in the opening minutes of the game. Both offenses came out flat, dropping several passes and failing to gain any significant yardage. 
After trading several scoreless posessions. the Welsh offense finally got on the board late in the first half on a 15 yard pass from Katie Rak to receiver Vanessa Lichon. The score gave the team some breathing room and a lead their defense would never relinquish. 
After Welsh intercepted Lyons quarterback Sarah Jenkins on the first possession of the sec­ond half, Rak found Lichon deep in the endzone once again. 
This time, the pass deflected off the fingertips of two Lyons defenders and into Lichon's waiting hands. 
"That catch was probably more luck than anything else. I was surprised to actually hang on," she said. 
Despite the dissapointing result, the Lyons team was not displeased with their play. 
"I couldn't be prouder of our team," said Lyons captain Lisa Thomas. "I don't think Welsh was expecting such a tough game." 

The Institute for Educational Initiatives would like to thank: 
Bandlink  STEP  
Elston  Teamwork for Tomorrow  
Saints  Young Life  

for a successful beginnning of their commitment to serve the children of South Bend through tutoring and mentoring. 
If you are interested in finding out more about these programs or starting your own tutoring/mentoring program, please call 1-4447 or visit:http://ieiweb.flanner.nd.edu:8020/ 

.. 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, October 30, 2000 
HOCKEY 
Spartans sweep Irish 3-2 with last-second goal 
By MATT ORENCHUCK 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey tnam on Friday evening came 
c. ose to an upset. but fell 3-2 to Michigan State on a last­second g•Jal. 
i\fter !'ailing to Michigan State on Thursday night, the Irish took to the ice "ith u new goaltender in net and a new attitude. They cut out the penaltles. and dominated the second and third periods. 
Jeremiah Kimcnto had been a Notre Dame starter for the past f'ive games. but when the tPams came out of the locker room. it was sophomore Tony Zasowski in between 


the pipes. "We had countless scoring over to third Zasuwski period. Neither
opportunities in the third 

started 29 team got any­
period. We have to find a

games last thing going year and way to win that game, and offensively for tile first most of the
eventually we will. " 

two games period. of this sea­N o t r e son. but Dave Poulin Dame's best was pulled Irish head coach scoring chance 
after being ineffective in early s,:iason losses to Minnesota and Boston College. 
.., The first period appeared to be a repeat of the Thursday night game, with Michigan State again taking advantage of' Irish penalties. A Notre Dame penalty at 
15:37 of the first period gave MSU their first power play opportunity, and they didn't disappoint. 
A minute into the Irish penalty the puck was shot out in front of Zasowski where Spartan senior Rusty Dolyny slapped the puck past the Irish goalie, and MSU took a 1-0lead. 
It took Notre Dame seven minutes to answer the MSU g:>al. Dual roughing penalties at 8:11 in the first period made it 4 on 4 hockey. 
Notre Dame took advantage of the free ice when freshman Rob Globke fired the puck past MSU goalie Ryan Miller. Michigan State had another power play towards the end of the period. The Spartans seemed on the verge of scor­ing with a flurry of shots on Zasowski with two minutes remaining. 
Then Notre Dame freshman defense men Tom Galvin knocked the goal off it's pegs, and was whistled for a delay of game penalty. 
"The kid [Galvinl dived on the ice and made a good play. 
enormous 
FLEECE 
He was blocking the shot. That is a very difficult call to make to put I.Cs in a five on three situation." Irish head coach Dave Poulin said. 
Michigan State took advan­tage of the situation. With 36 seconds left in the period Adam Hall put one right through the legs of Zasowski. and the Spartans went into intermission with a 2-1 lead. 
The second period was a quick one due to clean play, and not a lot of delays. ·Each team couldn't convert on a power play. 
With 3:39 left in the period Irish senior Ryan Dolder gave the Notre Dame faithful something to cheer about when he slipped a shot past Miller. That tied the game 2­
2. and got the crowd into the game. The Irish mostly domi­nated the second period. as they outshot the Spartans 19­1O. and kept offensive pres­sure on MSU goalie Miller. 
This momen­tum carried 
in the period 
came 12:20 
. left. Zasowski made a nice stick save, and the puck bounced to a streak­ing Dan Carlson. 
The Notre Dame senior skated towards the Spartan goalie, and the crowd roared in approval. 
Michigan State sophomore Steve Jackson caught Carlson from behind and took him down before he could get a shot off. 
The Irish argued that it should have been a penalty shot, and the home crowd 

to finish your degree at BETHEL COLLEGE 
Adult Education for Today's Busy Lifestyles 
~ 
l 

• Experience a nontrad1t1onal environment 
• Attend accelerated classes 
• 
Advance your career 

• 
Realize your dreams 


• Focus on values 

agreed, but refs only gave Jackson a 2:00 minute trip­ping penalty. 
"That was a difficult call to make Iwith Carlson flying up the ice]. That is the very defi­nition of a penalty shot, but the refs said that the MSU player caught Carlson," Poulin said.. 
The Irish couldn't convcr.t the ensuing power play, and the game stayed a tight defensive battle until late in the third period. 
A defensive breakdown by the Irish gave Michigan State the scoring opportunity they wanted. Senior Sean Patchell put away a nice pass in front 
of  Zasowski,  and  the  
Spartans held  on  for  a  3-2  
win.  

"That was a breakdown f'or Notre Dame. and we took advantage. It was a nice pass in front of the net. You aren't going to miss many of those opportunities like that," Spartan head coach Ron Mason said. 
The game had a disappoint­
ing ending for the Irish, but Poulin said he felt like they had made a lot of progress from earlier in the season. 
"We gave up one five on five goal all weekend, and we didn't take a lot of penalties," Poulin said. "We had count­less scoring opportunities in the third period. We have to find a way to win that game. and eventually we will." 
The Irish will try to build on their momentum with an awav series next weekend against Miami of Ohio. 

Monday, October 30, 2000 
Wonten's 
continued from page 24 
to have a good race and stick to it," 
A championship would have been a real stretch for the Irish, who are unranked. But they hoped to fin.ish in tl1e top four to fiv<J to skirt into the ranks of con­tenders for nationals in late November. 
The Irish were never in the race for the top several spots, tallying 160 points, 69 more than the nearest competitor. 
Sevmth-rankcd Boston Collrge dominated the meet, scoring just 38 points in a sport where less is more. No. 17 Providence outnosed No. 10 Georgetown 71-72, closely followed by Villanova and West Virginia. 
The sixth place finish didn't completely erase Irish hopes of a return to nationals. 
"We can still go in and be third in the region," Connelly said. 
The Observer . SPORTS 
2oocf!lY East
~C Championship 
1  PROVIDENCE  
2  GEORGETOWN  
3  VILLANOVA  
4  NOTRE DAME  
?.Luke Watson  23:44  
8.Marc Striowksi  23:50  
21.Patrick Conway  24:23  
26.Todd Mobley  24:38  
38.Sean Zanderson  25:12  
48.David Mertens  25:31  
49.Tom Lennon  25:35  
5  WEST VIRGINIA  

6 BOSTON COLLEGE 
7 CONNECTICUT 
8 VIRGINIA TECH 
9 RITTGERS 
10 SETON HALL 
11 PITTSBURGH 
12 MIAMI 
13 SYRACUSE 
14 ST. JOHN'S 

146 
153 
213 
220 
272 
272 
328 
331 
339 
390 
1 2 
3 4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 I 
11 
12
~ 
~ 13 14 BOSTON COLLEGE PROVIDENCE GEORGETOWN VILLANOVA WEST VIRGINIA 
NOTRE DAME 
18.Chrissy Kuenster 31.Jennifcr Handley 32.Rachel Endress 39.Megan Johnson 40.Jennifer Fibuch 41.Kari Eaton 44.Hilary Bum 
VIRGINIA TECH CONNECTICUT RUTGERS PITTSBURGH ST. JOHN'S MIAMI SYRACUSE SETON HALL 

The La.tin.id.ad.. a:n.d. 
38  
71  
72  
81  
91  
160  
17:48  
18:15  
18:18  
18:22  
18:22  
18:24  
18:36  
248  
271  
281  
307  
324  
328  
337  
393  


G1obalizatio:n. Project a.n.d the Great Cbail.en.ges of the XXI O.e:n~ 
;i::r,:c, . ...:
·•······· · · :JI?r--;~'.~""·::,,.. 
Spo:n.sored. by: The X:n.stitu.te for La.tin.o Stlid.ies 
-1S 2001 at CO  
reckenrid eCO Vail CO "ID)  
Aspen CO ( Winter Park. COM)  


~~==~~~I 
.. . 
. . 
• 
. .. 
. ,:,#f. . . s'f I ; • 
. I. -~ ' 
'' ~­
) 
· · reckenrid eCO 
.. 
page 17 

Men's 
continued from page 24 
third; we only lost to Villanova by thrne points," Marc Sriowski said. "Conway and Mobley both ran well. We just need to pull it all together." 
The course began quickly with a short uphill and then wound into the woods. The entire team managed tu pack together for the first mile, and then slowly split apart. Watson and Marc Striowksi headed up the Notre Dame runners, and stayed near the front group of runners. 
"The race went out really fast, and it seemed more like a time trial than anything," Watson said. "Everyone started the race as fast as they could from the beginning. There was a pack right ahead of Marc and I, and we needed to stay with them and not allow them to break us." 
The first mile of the race was faster than any other race the team had run all year long. 
atson and Striowski went 

hrough the first mile in a blis­
ering 4:32; the fastest first mile 
hat Watson had run this season 
as 4:49. This fast start took its 

oll on the Irish runners. 
•·our team is more strength riented," said Watson. "We end to run better on hillier ourses. This course was flat, 
hich proved to be to our disad­vantage." 
As the race progressed, the team became more spread out. Watson made a surge at the final mile, and tried to put him­self in a position to finish in the top five. Unfortunately, as he neared the finish line, another runner passed Watson. 
"The last mile was really dis­appointing," Watson said. "I tried to finish in the top four or five, but got passed at the finish ... Two years ago, I finished this race nearly 35 seconds slower, and finished in the same place as today ... This conference has really developed into one of the best in the nation." 
Striowski finished several sec­

onds behind Watson, and 
gained a personal record. 
"Last year, I finished 11th and ran 90 seconds slower," Striowski said. "I am pleased with my personal performance." As the Irish face the final tretch of their season, they are ery optimistic about their 
tential. 
ww.sunchase.com 

·f"'••1880'i:SUN8DSI' 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, October 30, 2000 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish seniors earn 2-0 "''in in final home game 
By '-!OAH AMSTADTER 
Assisranr Spons Ediror 
Ir. a game that honored the team's six graduating seniors. the Notre Dame men's soccer team pulled out a 2-0 victory Friday over West Virginia behind the strength of' two fresh­men. 
The Irish scored two goals in the contest -one in the lirst half by Justin Detter and another in the latter half by Chad Riley -to cam the vic­
D.C., the start rewarded the senior for his years of hard work. 
"Coach told me that he didn't start me as a favor, he started me because I'd played for years for the team and worked hard and deserved to start,'' said Storino. "That way it's more something I deserve and not something I was given. I was very pleased with the whole situ­ation and how Coach Apple han­dled it." 
While the seniors got to share 
an emotional 

t o rv in the "Being that it was our last time in their l'inid Big final games
home game, you want to

East confer­at Alumni ence game walk away from your home Field, it was for both newcomers
field with a win. " 

teams. Detter and Notrt) Hiley that put Dame's final Dustin Pridmore the Irish on rec,)rd in Irish tri-captain the board. 
the conf'cr­
cnce falls at 4-7-0, good for ninth 
place -one place short of quali­
fying for the Big East tourna­
mcrt. 
"You don't want to close your 
sea:;on out anytime with just 
losses," said senior tri-captain 
Dustin Pridmore. "Being that it 
was our last home game, you 
war.t to walk away from your 
horre field with a win." 
The game marked the final earner home game for the six seniors on the Irish roster. As a reward for their years of dedi­cated service, head coach Chris Apple juggled his lineup so that all i:ix veterans -defensemen Connor LaRose and Steve Maio; mid1ielders Griffin Iloward. Dan Storino and Pridmore; and for­ward Heggie McKnight -could stan the game. 
'These are the guys who you come in with as freshmen, you play all four years with and for all or us to start the game togeth­er, it was really a good feeling," said Pridmore. "It was a perfect wa) to close out our careers herc:." 
The st.art was especially satis­lyini~ for Storino, who earned his lirst minutes on the Held all sea­son. After dealing with a devas­tating knee injury as a freshman as well as missing last spring's seai:on while in Washington, 
Exactly four minutes into the game, McKnight passed the ball off to sophomore Andreas Forstner. who found Detter open 20 feet in front of the net. Detter blasted the ball past West Virginia's Kyle Swarts for the game's first score. 
The Irish controlled the ball the remainder of the half, but were unable to put any of their seven other shots in. In the sec­ond half, the Irish again set the tone early, as Pridmore found Riley open in front of the net at the 57:12 mark. Hiley's goal ­giving him 12 points on the sea­son to lead the Irish -was the llnal score of the game. 
On both or the goals, a senior assisted a freshman for the score. The statistic is symbolic or the role that the seniors have played for the team this season. While every player would like to get the glory of scoring a goal, the veterans realize that unselfish play leads to success. 
"We might not get all the glory with the goal, but I think it shows we've realized over the years that it takes the whole team." said Pridmore. "When it comes down to it. a win's a win no matter who scores." 
The Irish conclude their sea­son Tuesday evening when they take on IUPUI in Indianapolis at 
7:30 p.m. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAivlE 
l"TER:\'..\TIO:\..\L STVDY PROGR.\.\IS 

EREl\,JANTLE_~A.USTRALIA 
'"The L:111d Down L/ ndcr" 
I NFOR;\J.-\'UOJ:s_JllE.ELl~G )\Jth .Jullict .\layinja, Assistant Dircdur· Fr. Wilson .\liscamlllc, C.S.C. 
}\'e_dues.d.a.y ~o_yember 1, 20_QQ 
102-DeBartQill 
4 :45-5: 45-r.._~ 
.\PPI.IC.\TIO:",; Df..\DLl:",;E: DECE.\IBF.R I. 2000 .\pplication, a,·ailahlc www/nd.ccln/-intlstud 

WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish beat Miami without Nixon 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Sports Writer 
Last sea.son's Big East swimmer 
of the year Carrie Nixon watched 
the Irish swimming and diving 
team's 199-101 routing of Miami 
University from the sidelines 
Friday instead of taking her cus­
tomary position in the center lane. 
Plagued by shoulder problems 
that have kept the senior sprinter 
on the bench for the start 2000­
2001 season, Nixon could be on 
the sidelines for the rest of the 
year, coach Bailey Weathers said 
Sunday. 
"She's been dealing with some soreness in her shoulder, and we're trying to evaluate what's going on on the off-chance she may need surgery," Weathers said. 
At the very least. Nixon will stay out of competition until the extent of her injury Le; determined, mostly to protect her year of eligibility, Weathers said. She is scheduled for a MRI Wednesday. 
"Right now. the main thing is for her to get healthy. We'd rather not make a mistake and have her lose a year ofs,vnnming. But of course, it is nice to have someone that was fourth at NCAAs in your lineup." 
Nixon's absence in the water left no handicap on the Irish at Friday's duel, however, as several key performances helped Notre Dame surge to a 104-27 lead at the half. 
Ranked No. 18 entering the meet, the Irish swarmed a sur­prised No. 17 Hurricane squad . with four s\\immers powering to multiple victories during the meet, and capturing 12 of 14 events. 
Some of the toughest Big East competition, Miami placed behind Notre Dame at the Big East cham­pionships last February, and were seeded ahead of Notre Dame in the preseason rankings primarily because of a higher NCAA finish. But the poll" aren't necessarily an accurate means of assessing the competition, Weathers said. 
"The national rankings are deceiving at this point," he said. "We thought we could beat them going into the meet, but we didn't realize they wcm as weak as they were in some events." 
The Irish struck at the Hurricane's weaknesses through junior Kelly Ilecking's sweep of both backstroke events. Hecking wrapped up the 100-yard back­stroke in 56.90 seconds, and the 200-yard backstroke in 2:04.90. Senior Kristen Van Saun dominat­ed the middle distance freestyle events, sweeping the 200-yard freestyle (1:54.30) and 500-yard freestyle (5:00.06). 
Individual event victories were also notched by junior Allison Lloyd in the 100-yard breast stroke, freshman Lisa Garcia in the 200-yard butterfly and sopho­more Amy Deger in the 100-yard buttfirfly. 

The team of Becking, Lloyd, freshman Sarah Bowman and I Iulick also posted a relay win for the Irish, soundly defeating the Hurricanes by more than five sec­onds with a 3:52.86 finish. 
Newcomers Marie Labosky and Danielle Ilulick also turned in solid performances Saturday. Labosky clinched the 1,000-yard freestyle in 10:05.00, and repeated her first-place finish in the 200-yard individual medley, finishing in 
2:07.05. Hulick, standing in !'or Nixon in the sprint evenl._, won thr. 50-yard freestyle in 24.68. and the 100-yard frr.estyle in 53.02. 
The freshmen's races were criti­cal. according to Weathers. ""They'll take on a big role [on this team}." Weathers said. "The talent level is pretty incredible. They can cover every event, which adds a whole lot ofdepth and strength." 
The Irish face off in a tri-meet against Pittsburgh, Kenyon College and Miami of Ohio in Oxford, Ohio Friday at 4 p.m. 
'7iyJ;;;;.D:;z::yi:7:.'?j::J 
":7i ~d.?~~~-,.. 
.a:t:4-f . fLJ!_, tJJ..JJL 
. . . . /.,..-THE t/4~:';,,••~ 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2000 
4:30 PM, C· I 00 HESBURGH CENTER 
...·• .. . ;)z.. u..H); ..,._,./r.. I,, d,l'Jt.. 
J:'9R .MOR£, IN,rtiRHATION, -Pt.EASE C"-LL (21 gj_ 63!·~62:0·I OR Vl5ft t1TTJO>://WWW.NO EDtJ/-coNGOE...5 

Monday, October 30, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
Divers make big splash for Irish in win over Kalamazoo 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
Sports Writer 
The numbers speak for themselves and the message is dominance. 
Last Friday, the men's swimming and diving team were pushed to a 148-93 vic­tory over Kalamazoo as a result. of the div­ing team, who have been a force in each meet for the team this season. In the three meets this season, the divers have scored 90 points out of a maximum of 96 points. 
"Diving has been our strongf)St event and the one we have been most domi­nant," said head coach Tim Welsh. ''A big part is that we have a masterful diving coach in Caiming Xie and our three sophomores improved at such a steady rate in their first year here that we were able to pick up where we left otT last year. We still have several meets to go and we know that we can continue the improve­mrmt to get better yet." 
Divers Herb Huesman. a fifth-year senior, won the three-meter event, and sophomore Tony Xie won the one-meter event in last Friday's meet. 
A relatively young contingent with three sophomores and a fifth-year senior, the sophomore divers have benefited from having a year of experience under their belts. 
Sophomore .diver Andy Maggio, who won the one and three meter diving events versus Virginia Tech and one meter event versus West Virginia, said experience has made all the difference this season. 
"The experience helps a lot," said Maggio, \Vho focused on weight lifting in the off-season to improve his diving. "It helps to know what to be able to expect at meets and not to have the added distrac­tion of doing something for the first time. It's nice to be able to concentrate on div­ing." 
The ability to concentrate on diving is leading to the continued improvement Welsh and his divers expect to see throughout the season. 
The key to the team's season is the level of improvement that occurs from week to week, said Welsh. 
Maggio agreed. 

"At this point, we're trying to get stronger and learn new dives so that when we hit the final stretch of the sea­son, we can continue this trend of win­ning," said Maggio. 
Huesman is optimistic regarding the 
rest of the season, particularly since the divers have got­ten off to a strong start not losing a dual-meet com­petition yet. 
"I think we have a good chance at win­ning every meet up to the Big East championship," said Huesman. 'The team is a lot stronger this year because having the three other divers having a year of experi-· ence is helping a lot." 
for a large J.Crew Clothing Sale to be held at 
The Century Center Convention Hall B 120 South St. Joseph Street South Bend, IN 
All Shifts Available 

Cashiers, Baggers, and Floor Help 
Setup for the sale begins on Monday, November 6th To Apply please call: 
(41 0) 931-3501 

* Please leave your name and phone number. 

His diving is also improving with every meet, said Huesman. 
''I've been diving better this past week," he said. "It's a matter of getting back into the competition mode the first few weeks and shaking the rust off." 
The depth of the team and the perfor­mances of three freshmen also con­tributed to the Irish's win over Kalamazoo, said Welsh. 
The trio of freshman Lucas Wymore, JR Teddy and Matt Obringer pulled in victo­ries in three individual events for the Irish with Teddy beating senior teammates Ryan Verlin, Austin Anderson and Grant Burrall in the 500 freestyle event. 
"We were all excited to see how well the freshman performed," said Welsh. "We needed freshman to come in and pick up where the graduating seniors left off. These three [Wymore, Teddy and Obringer] have claimed their place as key parts of the team." 
Obringer. who specializes in backstroke 
and freestyle had won the 200 freestyle at the Virginia Tech meet and the 1000 freestyle versus West Virginia. Obringer continued his string of first-place finish­es with a win in the 200 backstroke versus Kalamazoo. 
"Matt has won a differ­

ent event at each of the three meets," said Welsh. "We are prepping him with longer distances so we had him swim a longer distance in the backstroke at this meet in hopes that he might swim the 100 back­stroke at the Big East championships." 
Obringer said he has eased into swim­ming at the collegiate level. 
"It's been good to be able to swim some different events that I haven't had a chance to swim," said Obringer. "And anytime you win, it always gives you more confidence." 
Since Kalamazoo is not a major confer­ence rival, the Irish had more leeway with placing swimmers in different events. 
"No one was in an event that was frivo­lous," said Welsh. "But we are thinking ahead to the Big East championship when each swimmer can compete in three events so we want them to be able to experience several events." 
The depth of the team also contributed to the team's winning effort. 
"The depth of the team is an issue and it is a blessing when we can afford to race people in everits that could help them pre­pare for the Big East championship," said Welsh. "Overall, I was pleased with the effort of the team and with the balance. We had more people enter into the scor­ing column and more moving into higher scoring positions in this meet and we are seeing more depth emerge." 

Joia Jesse and Joe an Monday, October 30 at midnight for an i11t1rview with Lynwood Thompson of City Cab 
Tune into WVFI tonight, and find out your Lovescope! 

wvfi.nd.edu 

Wednesday, November 8 Friday -Saturday, November 10 -11 at 8 pm 
Sunday, November 12, 2000 at2:30 pm 
Little Theatre 
Mffi"fiiJ
I <;._~ THE IIRTS 
~NOTRI!OAMI!, IN 
For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's Box Office at 
284-4626 




--·--­
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, October 30, 2000 
~t1EN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
,Junior Watson emerges as leader on men's squad 
By NATE PHILLIPS 
Sports Writrr 
BOSTON.MA 

As the cross country season heads inlo the home slrclch, junior Luke Watson has emcrg1\da:, '.'Jotro Dame's front-runner and toam leader. 
WaL•mn. an AU-American track 

runner, represents Lhc Irish nol 
only as one of the nation's pre­
miere runners, but also embodies 
a. truly down to earth and ground­ed approach to the sport. 
Watson started his running urccr in seventh grade. Like many other middle school run­ners, cross-country served as a social arena for Watson. 
"I was initially attracted by the s'.lcial aspects of the sport," Watson said. "/\ lot of my friends mn, and so I figured that I should give it a shot. It was a social activi­ty, that allowed me to stay in shape." 
Watson, a native of Stillwater, Minn., had the privilege of enter• ing a high school v.ith an impres­sive running history. The team was nationally ranked, and was C•)ached by one of the nation's most prestigious high school coaches, Scott Christianson. 
"I didn't really begin running s,1riously until the ninth grade," Watson said. "I began to train pretty intensely in high school." 
Christianson insisted that the teamwork hard and Watson began running about forty miles a week. Watson began to realize that he had a natural gift for the support, and that he really 
enjoyed the competition in the races. 
"The greatest thing about run­ning is that you am always com­peting not only with others, but also with yourself,'' Watson said. "I loved competing, while at the same time extending myself' and learning my own limits." 
Watson gained a national repu­tation as his high school career continued, His Stillwater high school team was ranked first in the nation his senior year and individually he excelled. Not only did he run cross country and track. but Watson also dedicated hi<; winters to Nordic skiing. 
"Luke is almost as good a Nordic skier as he is a runner," said Notre Dame cross country and track coach Joe Piane. 
Watson earned 12 letters com­bined in all three sporls, and went undefeated his senior year in cross country and track. By the time that he graduated, Watson had five state titles; four in track and one in cross country. He won the 1600 and the 3200 in the state meet both his junior and senior years, and came out of high school as one of the most highly recruited runners in the nation. 
"I was recruited by number one ranked Stanford coming out of high school," Watson said. "But, I was immediately drawn to Notre Dame." 
"When I began recruiting Luke, I noticed that he not only was he a great runner, but he had a great work ethic as well," Piane said. "I le doesn't cut any corners." 
"I just love the people here," Watson said. "There is a great team atmosphere, and I just saw great potential and opportunities. I alc;o knew that I would immedi­ately be able to contribute to the team, which was something that I was looking for." 

Watson, who trained by doing more strnngth work than speed work in high school, was immedi­ately attracted to Piane's coaching style. 
"The Notre Dame program is dic;tancc based, which was perfect to my style of running," Watson said. 
Watson immediately made an impact on the NotrH Dame team, and began a string of highlight performances. As a freshman, he won the 1999 U.S. Junior Cross Country Championship. He ran the 8K race in 23:26 at the Lake Spanway Golf Course in Tacoma, Washington. This gave him the opportunity to compete at the World Junior Cross Country Championship in Belfast, Northern Ireland. lie was the third American to finish, and ended up 34th in a field of 155. 
His sophomore year, Watson helped lead the team to a first­place finish at the Big East cham­pionships. In indoor track, he focused primarily on the mile which he ran in a personal best time of 4:06.75. Outdoors, Watson won the Big East championship in the steeplechase. Ile broke the school record in the steeplechase, which qualified him for nationals. Also, Watson earned All-American honors in this distance medley at the NCAA championships. 
With all of these achievements under his belt, Watson continues to look towards the future. 
"I really would like to be an All­American in cross country this season," said Wat'ion. "On a good day, I could see myself finishing somewhere in the top fifteen in the nation." 
"I would like to see Luke be an All-American as well," said Paine. "He was forth at Pre-Nationals this season, and I can see him doing it." 
Despite all of his accomplish­ments, Watson says that the rela­tionships he has formed on the team have been the best parts of' his running career. 


"There is just so much support from the team," said Watson. "It really helps keep me internally motivated." 
"He clearly is a leader on the team and right now is our number one runner," said Paine. "Ile leads not only by only verbally, but also by example." 
As the district and national meets approach, Watson is confi­dent ofthe team and in himself'. 
"I have the potential to be good and to excel. I just love running, and I always have," Watson said, as he added with a laugh. "Being good doesn't hurt." 

The Institute for Educational Initiatives would lik~ to thank: Band link STEP Elston Teamwork for Tomorrow Saints Young Life for a successful beginnning of their commitment to serve the children of South Bend through tutoring and mentoring. .· VOR .. ~­If you are interested infinding out more about these programs or starting your own tutoring/mentoring program, please call 1-4447 or visit:http://ieiweb.flanner.nd.edu:8020/  


page 21

Monday, Ocrober 30, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS 

Senior Anne Makinen dribbles past a Seton Hall defender during Notre Dame's 6-0 victory over the Pirates on Sept. 29. The Irish 
take on Boston College in the Big East semifinals Friday night. 
Happy 21st Paul! 
Keep Shootin' Cowboy 
-3B 


The Department of English Presents an Informal Talk for Undergraduates by 
:MAURA NOLAN 
Assistant Professor of English University of Notre Dame 
"MONTY PYTHON AND THE MASS: MEDIEVALISM AND THE MIDDLE AGES" 
Wednesday, November 1st, 7:30 p.m. Gold Room, North Dining Hall 
Refreshments Will Be Served. 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 
gave the team a couple of days off this week and that helped." 
Waldrum is hopeful the remainder of the schedule will be conducive to his team's health. The Irish, with the exception of next weekend's semifinals and finals of the Big East tournament, will play a just one game each week through the NCAA tournament. 
"Hopefully, that will allow us to get back to where we need to be health wise," said Waldrum. "We hope to get Amy !Warner! back to the point where we can get a full game from her." 
Though last year's Notre 
Dame squad advanced all the 
way to the NCAA finals. Miami 
coach Jim Blankenship feels 
this Notre Dame team is even 
bettor, a thought that should 
terrify potential Irish oppo­
nents. 

"Certainly they're younger, 
and l think they're a bit more 
dynamic, ''he said. "I think 
went they got into rhythm they 
were pretty much unbeatable. 
Notre Dame is as good as any­
one in the country." 

Call 259-1000 for more details 
~ 
. 
I• 

All are invited to 
Stop by, attend a Press eat some cake, 
Conference and and learn about 
Reception in Notre Dame's recognition of on!Y student-run WVFl's new Internet radio global status station 
Celebrate the Dawning of WVFl's 61obal Era this Wednesday, November1 in the Notre Dame Room at10 a.m. 
wvfi • nd • edu





page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, October 30, 2000 
CREW 
Irish earn 4 golds, second at regatta 
By JEFF BAL TRUZAK 
Sports Wri1~r 
The Notre Dame women's 
varsity rowing team complet­
ed one of its most successful 
days in the program's short 
history as a varsity sport 
Sunday by securing four gold 
medals at the I lead of the Elk 
regatta Sunday. 
Combining with the novice 
and men's club programs, 
Notre Dame as a whole fin­
ished second behind Michigan 
in the ovr:rall tr.am title. The 
Irish women won the open 
eight event, both open fours 
races and def'unded their 
lightweight four title on a 
cl<•ar and calm day on the St. 
Joseph Hiver in Elkhart. 
Coach Marlin Stone recog­
nized the potential impact 
sud1 a performance could 
have on his young rowing 
squad as they completed the 
fall season. 
"Emotionally this will get 
the kids hyped up," he said. 
"When they're training this 
winter and wondering why 
they do it. they can remember 
today." 
The Irish wins did not come without struggle, however. As the day reached mid-morn­ing.the Irish were facing a problem. One of Notre Dame's top rowers, Ashlee Warren, was battling illness. and Stone made the decision to hold her out of the open fours event in hopes that she would con­serve her energy for the open dght race later in the day. 
<.:asey BuckstalT moved from the B boat to the A crew to replace Warren. Stone called on freshman Annie Starks to replace Buckstaff in the B race. 
The Irish didn't miss a beat. 
Both boats won their events, with the A boat edging Indiana by two seconds. As for the B crew, 21 seconds separated thc1m from the nParnst competition. 
"Looking at it. I knew we 
U'NIVERSITY OF NOTRE DA:'t-TE 
INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGR.A,.\1S 201 Securtty Bull~ln& Notre D•m•. lndlana -16~S6 
T: IJJl-~!8? Fu: 631-5711 
could win both open fours 
events," said Stone. "It was 
prPparation l'or the open eight 
event." 
The highlight of the day of 
racing came at the end, in the 
28th and final event of the 
regatta, the women's open 8 
event. The Irish, who started 
15 seconds behind Purdue in 
the chase format, roared past 
the Boilermakers with 300 
meters left in the 2.5 mile 
course as coxswain Clare Bula 
scrnamed for the Irish to fin­
ish strong. 
After exiting the water, it 
was a nervous hour as the 
Notre Dame squad or 
coxswain Bula, stroke Jaime 
Szefc. Katherine Burnett. 
Warren. Becky Luckett, 
Buckstaff, Julia Kelly, Melissa 
Alberding and bow seat Ann 
Marie Dillhoff waited for the 
race resull<;, 
Later, when the official results confirmed the race was won by Notre Dame, the crew gathered for the tradi­tional throw-the-coxswain-in­the-river ceremony, and the senior captain Bula went head lirst into the St. Joseph, her second soaking of the day. 
The open eight was not all the glory Notre Dame would have Sunday, however. The lightweight four boat, coxed by senior captain Erin Kiernicki,defended its Head of the Elk title successfully. 
The open doubles event, which involved sculling rather than the standard rowing of most events, featured Allie Spacht and Tara Driscoll. Though both experienced scullers, neither had rowed in a double scull recently, but it would not seem so by watch­ing them cruise to a fourth­place finish. 
"We only practiced three times, but we worked well together." said Spacht. "Our main goal was to beat Indiana, and we did by two minutes. We were really excit­ed. We couldn't ask for any­thing better." 
..~. ,. 
•• p • 
-t~ 
~c;,·
' 
~­
~ 
1
-J. 

:-:i:":;'.\··~•../-td'-c--. ~ -:; 't·) 
INNSBRUCK 
2001-2()02 Academic Year lNFORJl'IATION ZJ,JEET/NG 
Come and meet Professor Gemot Gtirtler, Director of the Innsbruck Program 
TUESDAY OCTOBER 31, 2000 207 DEBARTOLO 5:00 PM 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/-iotlstud Questions'? -Weber.l5@nd.edu Application Deadline: December I 

FOOTBALL 

Davie llloves Godsey to tight end 
bone injury sidelined the Irish go about it." 
By TIM CASEY 
starter. Godsey was on top of the For the season, Godsey con­
Assistant Sports Editor 
college football world. With nected on 19 ol' 41 passes for Notre Dame trailing No. 13 224 yards and carried nine 
Notre Dame fans will now Purdue 21-20 late in the fourth times for two yards. have tu trust in Gary Godsey, the quarter, Godsey led the Irish Ile threw for two touchdowns, tight end. On Sunday, the downlield. culminating in Nick ran for another and tossed two month-long speculation became Sctta's 38-yard field goal as time interceptions. official: Godsey, who started two expired. games at quarterback has been One week later. Godsey was 
Officials 

moved to tight end. criticized for his 6-foot-6, 235­When David Givens caught a "Gary GodsPy is really a good pound frame and lack of speed pass from LoVccchio in the rightquarterback," coach Bob Davie following a 27-21 loss to corner of the south end zone in said at Sunday's press confer­Michigan State. In that game, overtime on Saturday, many in ence. "But in our system, we Godsey completed just 4 of' 15 
attendance thought the Irish 
need mobility out of our quar­passes for 20 yards and ran two clinched their 6th victory. 
terback." times for negative one yard. lie So did Davie. 
With the week off before the was replaced in the third quar­
"That was a touchdown,"
Nov. 11 Boston College game, ter bv Lovecchio and alternated Davie said on Sunday.
Davie also has an opportunity to the remainder of' the game. 
Because of that call and sever­work with freshmen Jared Clark Godsey played sparingly al othnr close decisions, Davi!~ 
and Carlyle Holiday, who will against Navy after the Irish built made a "significant and lengthy" serve as the second and third a commanding lead. I le has not video tape that he will send tostring quarterback, respectively, seen action in the past two Dave Parry, the Big Ten's sup11r­
behind Matt Lovecchio for the games. 
visor of ollicials. 

remainder of the season. Davie Whereas other teams wanted I le may then send the tape to said that he would play Clark him as a signal caller. Notre the Mountain West Conference,this season and forfeit his firth Dame recruited Godsey as a depending upon Parry's recom­year of eligibility if necessary. tight end coming out of Jesuit mendation. 
"We have a clear picture and High School in Tampa, Fla. I le "I made a tapo of all o/' the a clear focus of where we want spent all of last season at that calls on the game that affected to go," Davie said. "Now is the position before being switched both sides," Davie said. 
time to do it." to quarterback in the spring. At On the first series of the fourth With Jabari Holloway hurt the time, he was one of only two quarter. Davie thought the Irish with an ankle injury, Davie (along with Battle) scholarship "got clipped twice." Also, on the expects Godsey to play at tight quarterbacks on the Irish roster. 
final Notre Dame series of regu­end sometime in the three But with three freshmen com­lation, the Irish were called for a remaining games. When cap­ing in this fall, Godsey's oppor­live-yard illegal procedure p1ma.l­

tains Dan O'Leary and llollway tunities were limited. lie spent ty "which is kind of dill1cult to graduate in May, Godsey will the summer camp and the first see on tape," according to Davie. 
join Gerald Morgan in competi­weeks of the season as the back­"I don't gain anything from sit­tion for the starting job. up and then the starter. As the ting here right now and just say­"Deep down, I think he feels season progressed, the coaching ing what my opinion of the ofli­and I feel that his future is at stalT decided the first-year play­cials was," Davie said. "I justtight end," Davie said. "I love the ers fit in better with the offense. 
think people have to be account­kid and I want to put him in a Davie spoke with Godsey and able. Coaches arc accountable.

position where he can have .suc­his father last week about the Players are accountable. We all cess. I just feel in my heart that switch. 
get critiqued. I'm going to handleit's the best thing to do." "It's a difficult situation," it the right way and I'm going to For a few days in September, Davie said. "But I think being sec where that leads." 

af'ter Arnaz Battle's navicular dead honest is the only way to 

Monday, October 30, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TYLER

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 


t. he. pv\le.ct 
u O\/&f" .f"or
BILL AMEND

Fox TROT 
J"SoN, THE FIRE
10 MOil£ STEPS AND 
• MORE STEPS••• 

1 118 MORE STEPS•.. 
IS OUT! STO
It MORE STEPS•..

YoU'LL 8E HOME, RoGER. 
131<t MoRE STEPS...
SPRA~NG 
2 MORE STEPS••• 

THE HOSE!
~ 
r 
l 
") 
rri= 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 747, e.g. 52 Tetched in the head
1 Hunter in the 33 Entices 53 Phone message 
night sky 34 Cut off, as 6 Gush branches 
from Elsie's friends?

10 "Get out!" 35 Watch 
amorously 56 Buddies

14 AM/FM device 36 Throws, as dice 57 Rework, as
15 Artificially jazz stories
(up) 37 One-time divorce mecca 58 Quarrel
16 vault 
17 Where Elsie battleshiplooks for a 39 Drying ovens Grafhusband? 40 Mr. Spock's forte 60 Poet Teasdale 
19 Water pitcher 41 It's yellow and 61 Some blondes 
20 Guileful crusty 21 Actress Judith 43 Full of modern 22 World Cup sport 
gadgetry DOWN 24 "National Velver 
44 Complete 1 Sun and moon, change of course for example 

author Bagnold 25 Knickknack 
45 Superman 2 Julia of "The accessory Addams Family"26 Like the word of 46 Birthplace of St. 3 Without purpose God Francis

29 "No, it doesn't 4 Squeaky 
48 Kind of grapes 

make you look wheel's need fat," maybe 49 Civil War inits. 5 Convention V.1.P. 6 Scrap paper? ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 7 Dawdling M A O 
A M 8 Squeeze (out) 

MADEWAVES 
A L A 
N A 9 Divers' wear

0 N A V E R A G E 
10 Coined money 11 Where Elsie gets educated? 

13 Dakotas, once: Abbr. 18 Greedy 
,-:-+-,-,+:::+:::-1 23 Table scraps 8-i:+.::-I 24 White-tailed eagle A 25 Signed 1.0.U.'s 
L ~.;,,:.+..,;,.+.,,.+:+~,.,+,:-+-,:-1 26 Thread holder I T E R S N O N O T E V E R 27 Low end of the A T S E A S E T S A P A R T food chain 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an ind)spensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
HOROSCOPE 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2000 

CELEBRmES BORN ON TIIIS DAY: Louis Malle, Grace Slick, Andrea Mitchell, Henry Winkler, Kathleen Cody 
Happy Birthday: Don't just sit there thinking about what you want to do. Believe in yourself and your ideas. Present/our intentions with confidence, an you will receive the necessary backing to get the ball rolling. You have plenty to offer this year. Get ready" to work hard and receive the deserved rewards. Your numhers:8,12,15,23,31,38 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get together with friends. Opportunities to socialize will bring you into contact with someone who can help you get ahead. Don't exaggerate, or you'll make yourself look bad. 
0000 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Home-improvement projects should be on your agenda. Don't let your
"'s-2-1-~-+-­

mate back you into a corner. Ttv to do things yourself. Relying on others will end in disaster. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take short pleasure trips or seek out romantic connections. Make sure you 
Puzzle by Sherry 0. Blackard and Lyell Rodleck 
pull your weight at home. Re-evalu­ate your motives regarding your per­
28 What Elsie's 42 Idle 48Ado 
sonal situation. 000 

child develops 43 Thieves' booty 49 Zoo feature 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Mon­
at the gym? 

eymaking opportunities are present.
50 Ugly putdown 

29 Trash 45Terra_ 
Don't divulge secret information. 
30 Like some 51 Pub offerings Oear up overdue paperwork. Enter­
46 Peaks near 
taming or socializing will be enjoy­
Greek columns Bern 54 Nabokov novel 

able as long as you don't stretch your 
31 Memorable time 
budget too far. 000

47 Camay, for one 55 Hue's partner 33 Yacht club site 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Travel or 36 Whims 
educational pursuits are favored 
today. Use diplomacy when dealing
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 37 Mechanical 
with friends or children. Roll up your
learning are available by touch-tone phone: 
shirtsleeves, help others and you will
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
39 Burden 

Birthday Baby: You have spunk, and you will freely follow whatever path
Annual subscriptions are available for the out of one's best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
40 Take the words 

beckons you. You are strong, resourceful and forever trying to keep the peace. Your diplomatic nature wilfhelp to enhance your reputation.
mouth? years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvic:e.com, eugenia!Htcom, utromate.com.) 
IC) 2000 Univenal PressSyndicate 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name _____________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
gain popularity at work. 00000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Uncertainties will lead to difficulties while traveling. You must be cau­tious when talking to competitive people. They may want to twist your words.00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You will learn a Iot if you listen to those in established positions today. Be aware of different philosophies and cul­tures when dealing with clients. Your knowledge will affect the outcome. 
0000 
SCORPIO (Oct 23-Nov. 21): Plan ways to further your goals. Don't hesitate to contact those in a position to help you get ahead. Check out the legal aspects concerning a profes­sional move you wish to make. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21): Don't be afraid to ask colleagues for assistance. You should make spe­cial plans involving your loved one. Lack of attention may lead to suspi­cions and accusations. 000 
CAPRICORN {Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't overload your plate or make promises you can't keep. Enhance your looks and change your image. A new you will lift your spirits and attract plenty of attention. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Get together with friends. You can get a lot done at home if you invite over individuals who are willing to help. Complete hobbies that you have been putting off. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will have problems at home if you haven't taken care of your respon­sibilities. Do things that require physical energy, but don't neglect the ones you love. Include them in your activities. 00 


The long goodbye 
Six members ofthe Irish men's soccer team played in their final home game on 
Friday.

PORTS 
page 18 

O
THE BSERVER
page 24 
C:ROSS COUNTRY 
l~unners take fourth, sixth at Big East Championships 

• Watson places No. 7 overall in "mediocre" n,en's performance 
Br NATE PHILLIPS 
Sp•>rt• Writer 
BOSTON, MA 

The Notre Dame men's cross-country team entered Saturday's Big East championships in Franklin Park in Boston on Friday with high hopes. 
As the defending champions, the team farnd a tough field with three nationally ranked teams and high expectations. Unfortunately, the optimism was not completely realized, as the team fin­ished fourth with 100 See Also points, just 
"Junior Watson emerges as

three points away from leader on men's squad." Villanova. 
page 20

•. T h e team really had a mediocre performance," said Coach Joe Piane. "If you ask every man. each of them will tell you that they could have run better. We wanted to shadow Villanova, and we thought that if we beat them man-to-man, we would win." Keith Kelly led Providence to a team win, with a personal victory in the 8,000-meter race in a course record time of 23 minutes, 22 seconds. The time was 15 seconds faster than thl: old record from 1998. 
For Notre Dame, junior Luke Watson led the Irish with a 7th place time of 
23:44. Marc Striowski finished in a close eighth place time of 23:50. Pat Co:1way finished 21st. freshman Todd Mobley 26th and Sean Zanderson fin­ished 38th. 
"\1arc and I wanted to stick together throughout the race," said Luke Watson. "Pat (Conway] and Todd !Mobley( were also plannini on running tog-ether." 
"The team really could have taken 
see MEN'S/page 17 


. Kuenster leads women's squad, finishes 18th 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associate Sports Editor 
BOSTON. MA 

The Notre Dame women's cross country tnam hoped Friday would be the day every runner on the squad would break out with her best pcrror­mance of the season. 
Nothing less would push the Irish into the run­ning for a Big East championship. Unfortunately, it wa.<;n't in the cards, as they linishnd sLx.th in thl' conference meet held at Boston's Franklin Park. 
"You can't have your best athletes not compntc well," head coach Tim ConnPlly said. 
Several runners stepped up to the plate for Notrn Dame, with senior ChrL<;sy Kuenstnr lead­ing the way in 18th place. 
"It was the first race that I felt reflected the potlmtial ol' my workout'>," Kuenstnr said of her 17 minute, 48 second time. 
Kucnster moved up as she worked her way through the 5,000-meter course. 
Aller Kuenster's top-20 finish, the rest of the Irish squad finished in a close pack. The second through seventh runners for Notre Dame placed between 31st and 44th within a 21-socond span ofone another. 
"Bunning in a pack's a nice theory," Connelly said. "but unless you have people penetrating and getting low numbers, you're not going to beat teams that are worth beating." 
Sophomore Jen Handley lost ground during the la<;t mile for Notre Dame, but still managed to be Notre Dame's second-best runner. Two fresh­men, Rachel Endress and Megan Johnson, turned in solid races for Notre Dame as tJ1e third and fourth finishers. 
The Irish got a big race out of sophomore Jennifer Fibuch, who covered the rnlatively Hat course in 18:22. 
"Jenny's a kid that was a 12-minute two-miler coming out of high school," Connelly said. "She's worked like crazy to get better:" 
The sixth and seventh runners for Notre Dame wore Kari Eaton and Hilary Burn. 
"I think we improved from the last race, but I still think we could do better," Kuenster said. "Everyone has to figure out what they need to do 
see WOMEN'S/page 17 

WOMEN'S SOCCER 
\Varner's return sparks 3-0 calming of Hurricanes 
By KEVIN BERCHOU 
Sports Writer 
T1e Notre Dame offense found the edge it needed when fresh­man Amy Warner returned for her first significant action in more than a month, sparking the Irish to a 3-0 win Sunday against the Miami Ilurricanes in the Big East quarterfinals. 
Undefeated, and ranked No. 1, the Irish were the favorite enter­ing the game, but for 35 minutes the teams looked like equals. The Irish had trouble finding seams in a solid Hurricane defense, their only real chance coming when junior defender Lindsey Jones boomed a shot that sailed just over the bar from 30 yards out. 
With his team not making any headway, Notre Dame head coach Handy Waldrum brought in Warner off the bench. Relegated to spot duty since she is still nurs­ing a tender right knee, Warner proved to the tonic the sagging Irish offense needed. 
Taking a pass from classmate Randi Scheller, Warner broke 

down the right side, before dart­ing back to her left and beating the keeper with a hard low shot for a goal that gave Notre Dame a 1-0 lead. 
"That goal was big," said Miami head coach Jim Blankenship. 'They really established a rhythm after that. On one leg, Amy Warner is still phenomenal. She makes a world of difference." 
The Irish controlled the game from that point on. Midway through the second half, Meotis Erikson sent a short cross across the goal box, to fellow senior and player of the year candidate Anne Makinen who drilled home her 12th goal of the season to increase Notre Dame's lead to 2­0. 
Amanda Guertin scored the final goal when Scheller lured two defenders her way and crossed the ball to the wide open freshman who tapped home her 10th of the year. 
"I was really happy with the way we played," said Waldrum. "We were in a pretty good rhythm." 
Most evident from the game 

was Notre Dame heightened energy level. After sagging throughout a long late-season road trip, the Irish were clearly back where they wanted to be in terms of intensity. 
"The last few games of the sea­son we didn't have a lot of ener­gy," said Waldrum. "Today I was happy with the effort. We gave the team a couple of days off this week and that helped." 
Waldrum is hopeful the remainder of the schedule will be 
see SOCCER/page 21 

at IUPUI • Big East Semifinals 
at. Miami (OH) Tuesday, 7:30 p.m. vs. Boston College Friday, 7:35 p.m. 
SPORTS 4if 
-~ 
Friday, 7 p.m. 
ATA .,, 

Women's Swimming Men's Swimming 
vs. Boston College 

at Miami {OH) quad meet at Oakland 
Saturday, Nov. 11

iGLANCE Sf (I
=
Friday, 4 p.m. Friday, 7:30 p.m. 
3;30 p.m. 









