
Help 
For art's sake? 
Victims o_{flooding in Mozambique seek aid. 
Student questions the bookstore's decision to 

Friday
The flooding and ensuing cyclone 
censor a peice ofart during 

killed more than 80 people. 
Junior Parents Weekend. 

FEBRUARY 25, 
WorldNation . page 5 
Viewpoint . page 13 

2000 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 91 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

A KING IS BORN


Senate rejects Osborn/ Donahey appeal 
By LAURA ROMPF 
Assistant News Editor 
Brian ()'Donoghue and Brooke Norton will rnmain the 2000-2001 stud1111t body prr.sidcnt and vice prnsidnnt after Student Senate voted Thursday in favor of uphold­ing LhP Judicial Coundl's dnci­sion for tlrnir presidency and turning down candi­dates John Osborn and M a r k D o n a h l! y ' s appeal. 
Osborn and Donahey argund that the election proc('SS was unfair bccaus(• thnrn was no run-off elec­tion afl(ir candidates llunl Hanover and John Micek were disqualified !'or rampaign violations and the prnsidency was givP-n to O'Donoghue and Norton. Osborn and Donalrny rcqmisted another election. 
"Tht• primary and final dection must bP viewml as two completely sP-parale. different elections. There arP diffornnt rules that govern each." said Kelly Folks. Judicial Council prnsident. 
Folks nxplained that all other tickPts were eliminated on Monday's primary, so the only two tickets rnma111111g were Hanov(1r/Micek and ffDonoghue/ Norton. 
Whnn llanoverr.vlicek were dis­qualified. thti only ticket left was ()'Donoghue/Norton, and tlrny were declan~d the winner. The final pri­mary voling tally was never pub­liclv released. 


Osborn and Donahev said there should have been another election so the students' actual votes would be counted. 
"Our opinion is there was never a valid run-off election," said Donahey. 
"There were two tickets taken from the primary, but when one was disqualified. that lefl only one other tick­et. They can't have a run-off with one tick­et." 
Donahev also made another clar­ification o"r their appeal. 
"The Judicial Council says that the ticket was running in an inde­pendent unopposed election," he said. "and thus they could declare them the winner. However, this is if no one else is vying for the presi­dency. In this case, there were nine other tickets vying for the presi­dency. 
"If this decision is being made on convenience, because having another election would be too diffi­cult, this is wrong and should not be the basis of the decision today. We want to follow the constitution and represent the student body as best we can.n 
Folks disagreed, saying that the election was carried out according to the constitution. 
"The process followed the 


see SENATE/page 4 

Career Center prepares students for real world 

By ERIN PIROUTEK Assistant News Editor 
As graduation approaches. the seniors hear, "What are you going to do next year?" with increasing fre­quoncy. 
Notre Dame's Career Center assists seniors and underclassmen with career searches and internships whilP helping students figurr~ out exactly what life beyond the Dome has to offer them. 
The centerpiece of the career cen­ter is the new, internet-based, Go IJHSl-1 system. Students are able to search Go IRISH for available job listings, then electronically submit rPsumes and cover letters to prospective employers. 
The numbers are impressive. The system has scheduled 10,000 on­campus interviews, said Lee Svete. dirPctor of the Career Center. One thousaud employers and nearly 500 intArnship!'i are at students' finger­tips 24 hours a day. 
"The Go IRISH system helped a lot," said finance major Sandy Jenkins. 
The new technology is far from perfect, however. 
"Both the employers and students are trying to work the bugs out of the system," said senior Corey Weidner. noting that some students had received interview notifications of both acceptance and rejection from the same company. 
Jenkins suggested that classes explaining the system would be ben­eficial. 
"It took me a month to figure it out. I missed a month full of interviews, but once you figure it out, it's pretty easy," said Jenkins. 
Svete noted that the center wants to go beyond placing students in jobs to helping students learn which careers best suit them. The name change from Career and Placement to the Career Center la"st August emphasizes this difference. 
see CAREER/page G page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, February 25, 2000 


INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Stop whining the guilt away 
I am convinced that a day does not pass at Notre Dame when some highbrow prep doesn't gasp with indignation over something "offensive." A couple of weeks ago, it was the shock that college students would actually chant mean Dustin Ferrell things at opposing teams. Then it was the Student 
assistant 

Senate's turn to look sillv 
vfowpoint

by calling a recent · 
editor

Observer cartoon "racist." 
I admit it is inappropri­ate to insult Khalid El-Amin for doing the hoogily-boogily out of wedlock. The chants were indeed an unfortunate occurrence, almost as harmful to children's ears as the suffocating elitist outcries we were subjected to bv the disenchanted masses. 
And perhaps the cartoon could have been run next to a half-page disclaimer to address every single manner in which it was taken out of context. People who made it a race issue neglected the fact that it was a play on the ignorance concerning a foreign name ­borderline at best, but never racist. 
Certainly it involves race, but not in such a way to offend people who have real racism to contend with. So if there's a cartoon next week telling American Studies majors that Slobodan Milosevic is not a Croatian playing for the Lakers, I will be the first to defend it. 
So why exactly must we take so much time out of our lives to apologize to the offended? There has to be an explanation for the over­sensitivity plaguing our beloved campus. Maybe it's a private school thing. Or maybe some of our more apologetic students were taught that it is really, really nice to overre­act in the name of "class" and "demeanor" and those other nice fluffy things. 
Ladies and gentlemen, if you remember anything during your four years here, remember this: Class and maturity are over­rated. And I'm not talking about the voice inside that tells us it is wrong to chant obscenities {except at bad calls by the reO. 
This is an obvious no-no. I speak of the "class" of the upturned noses roaming about, those crabby twits who don't want to draw the line between having a little fun and going too far. Amazingly, most of these people are students, while most faculty and staff criti­cism is fairly legitimate. I would have thought it to be just the opposite, but every time another senator gets on the soapbox and cries foul, I realize that many of us are just too excitable. 
All I ask of my fellow students is to let go of the "outrage" and the guilt of living in posh little suburbs that compel you to crusade for causes that make you feel better inside. If you're really concerned with diversity, free expression, free thought, etc., then you need to embrace those things that you disagree with. If the American Criminal Lovers' Union can do it, why can't we? 
Very rarely does our collective student body use common sense, and as long as these atti­tudes exist, they never will. We are the same knuckleheads responsible for the "bubble" that exists around the Notre Dame communi­ty, yet we criticize it to look worldly and informed to outsiders. 
Let's solve the problem now. Shut up, wipe the tears away, change your undergarments and get to work. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Erin Piroucek  Mike Vanegas  
Maribel Morey  Graphics  
Nicole Haddad  Jose Cuellar  
Sports  Production  
Kevin Berchou  Noah Amstedcer  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Mary Margarcr Nussbaum  Angela Carnpos  

The Obsm·er (USPS 599 2-4000) is publi,hed Monda)' through Frid,y exc~pt during exam and vacation periods. The Observer ls a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are ri:.-served. 
Snow storm forces three-day closure 
Feb.24, 1993 Classes were cancelled for the first lime since the University was forced to shut down from Jan. 25-27, 1978. when it closed for three days due to a blizzard that dropped more than 40 inches of snow. This storm dropped 15 inches of snow and a student made use of the snow by sledding down hills on campus on a tray borrowed from the dining hall. 
New dorms open, women asked to move 
Feb. 21, 1973 

Hesidents of Badin and Walsh halls were invited to move to the new dorms on North Quad, Farley and Breen-Phillips. The reason for the move is to prevent the new women's dorms from simply becoming freshmen halls. The Assistant to the Provost claimed that immobli­ty breeds selfishness and Jack of growth and the mobility would open new frontiers for the women. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Colo. State subpoenaed in MP3 crackdown 
FORT COLUNS, Colo. 
case is the second involving an RIAA 
Colorado State University was investigation of illegal MP3 distribu­handed a subpoena early last week tion sites operating out of CSU resi­by the Record Industry Association of dence halls, Childress said. However, America in conjunction with its inves­this case was the first in which the tigation of a CSU student who was university had been subpoenaed, he allegedly using a Web site to illegally said. obtain and distribute digital music The former case, brought to the files. attention of CSU by the RIAA, 
The RIM, which investigates Web occurred .Jan. 24. RIAA requested sites it suspects to be operating in condition of anonymity, said he was only that the student's site be termi­violation of copyright laws, requested not aware of the full scope of comput­naied; CSU complied. The students the student's identification from the er crime. "You're young enough to targeted in the cases were operating university Feb. 15; CSU complied. download MP3s and not know it's their own "File Transfer Protocol" Also, the student's Web site -stored illegal, yet you can go to prison for sites, which can be used for MP3 stor­on a university server -and Internet it," he said. "H's like fireworks: You age and distribution. connection were terminated, said can buy them, but you can't set them "This is definitely a new problem CSUPD officer Mark Childress. 0 IT. " arising at CSU," Childress said. "In Approximately 90 to 95 percent of the MP3 is a format by which digital these cases, students have initiated a recording industry's music titles are sound can be compressed and stored. legal site but were distributing MP3s, represented by RIAA, Childress said. MP3-encoded sound is available over which is in violation of copyright 
The student being investigated, the Internet and can be downloaded law." who spoke with the Collegian on a to any computer for free. The current Distributing MP3s without compen-
Students know Beavis, not Madison 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 
Beavis and Butt-Head didn't fight in the American Revolution. They didn't draft the U.S. Constitution. Nor did they first found a form of government that would become an international model. Not that that matters to most college students who recognize the cartoon duo more than they recognize the people who actually founded the United States. According to a survey released Monday, seniors in the nation's top colleges and universities could identify MTV's Beavis and Butt­Head more than they could identify James Madison as the father of the Constitution or George Washington as a general at the battle of Yorktown. "The two pop culture figures were thrown in to show how students are more aware of entertainment than historical figures and docu­ments," said Christopher Barnes, associate director of the Center for Research and Analysis at the University of Connecticut, which conducted the survey. The American Council of Trustees and Alumni sponsored the study, titled "Losing America's Memory: Historical Illiteracy in the 21st Century," as part of its attempt to make col­lege curricula more rigorous. 
Wash. State student trapped in fire 
PULLMAN, Wash. 

University officials are taking reports of a fraternity member bound and trapped in the burning Sigma Nu house seriously. About 20 minutes after firefighters arrived, they were informed someone might be in the guest room, Pullman Fire Capt. Richard Dragoo said. After clearing away a couch and some chairs. fire­fighters found a man bound at the wrist and ankle with tape. He was cut free and escorted from the burning building unharmed. The university adminis­tration is concerned about this, said Al Jamison, direc­tor of student advising and learning center and career services. This act could be considered hazing, which is illegal. "We will pursue this, we will investigate this," Jamison said. "Discipline will come swift." If the inves­tigation finds the fraternity's behavior to be inappro­priate, he said the university has the right not to sign the fraternity charter for another year. This act would "unorganize" the fraternity and effectively end its existence on campus, Jamison said. The University could also impose other less harsh sanctions on the fraternity. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Friday, Feb. 25. 

Saturday Q 60 44 Sunday ~ ~·s.1 36 
''.. "' 

Mond~y ~ 50 37 Tuesday ~ ··•52 38
' "" ' "\ ~ ~ ~
' 

0 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. cow WARM STATIONARY Pressure: 
,.-.,. ..>"I.'

Wednesday 9~ 51 37 ® © D ~ . LJ D ,,,.,r
. 
~¥.t

~.).......~;-,,·,... ..,./... . . .
High Low Shower• Rain l-atorms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Associa1aa Pross 
Anchorage 32 22 Chicago 64 56 New Orleans 76 62 Atlanta 69 49 Honolulu 81 66 New York 54 52
4,Q,~p~Q~ ~u 
Berkeley 58 51 Los Angeles 59 53 Rapid City 43 35 
Showers T•storms Rain Rurries Snow tee Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Boston 45 32 Louisville 72 60 Savannah 74 52 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNel 

Boulder 44 28 Miami 80 71 Wash DC 66 51 

Friday, February 25, 2000 The Obmver . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Prof: Religion acts as medical force 
By ANNE MARIE 
MATTINGLY 
Associate ~ews Ediror 
The role of religion in the history of health and healing has largely been ignored by scholars, said Ron Numbers, University of Wisconsin­Madison professor of science and medicine, in a lecture Thursday. 
"Once upon a time, the heal­ing of body and soul were inti­mately connected," he said,. cit­ing historical roles of ministers as persons who cared for the sick. "Today, when we think of medicine, we rarely think of religion." 
Numbers noted that this common attitude is reflected in written works on the history of health. . 
"Religion has remained decidedly on the margins of the history of medicine,'' he said. "We scarcely find any evidence in the history nf medicine that religion was an important fac­tor." 
But religion has been a major force in health care in America, explained Numbers, who noted that most of the nation's early hospitals were organized and run by religious groups. Protestant and Jewish hospitals appeared by 1888, and Catholic groups ran over 
1.000 hospitals in the 1950s. 
"One of the reasons we don't know more about the history of religion in hospitals is that iit's hard to get the facts]," said Numbers. "You can get bits and pieces. an occasional snap­shot. but nobody -none of these organizations -has kept adequate records, so we can only guess." 
From the mid-1870s to the mid-1920s, however, the num­ber of hospitals increased from less than 200 to more than 6.000. and 40 percent of non­profit hospitals were church related, said Numbers. Ile also daimed that this proliferation was more a reflection of church prominence than necessity. 
"Religious identity, rather than medical need, [was the reason to build a hospital]," he explained. "Often religious groups saw hospitals as a way of establishing a presence in a community." 
Numbers also attributed the development of nursing to reli­gious institutions. He claims that the common association of the modern nurse with Florence Nightengale reflects only the professionalization of nursing, not its creation as one tier of the medical care system. 
"American · nursing, too, 
cr>pt of supernatural healing. 
This tradition began around 1900 with the founding of the Pentecostal movement, and led to a debate between Catholics and Protestants of the validity of prayer for healing based upon the distinction between natural and supernatural heal­ing. In more modern eras, believers in supernatural heal­ing have promoted their views in large gatherings. 
"No event befon~ World War II compared with the massive healing revivals of the 1950s," said Numbers. 
The debate is now dying out because many institutions now employ both modern medical techniques and prayer, said !\umbers, who reported that 79 percrnt of Americans believe in the efficacy of intercessory 

owes much of its origins to religious  "Once upon a lime, the healing ofbody and soul  prayer for healing. Some dou­ 
roots," said  were intimately  ble -blind  
Numbers. "The only experienced  connected. Today, when we think ofmedicine, we  studies have shown bene­fits of prayer  
nurses to be  rarely think ofreligion"  to the .Judeo­ 
found in the  Christian god,  
United States [dur­ing the Civil  Ron Numbers University of Wisconsin  and nearly half of American  
War]  were  professor  medical  

Catholic nuns and Protestant deaconesses." 
Numbers emphasized the religious basis of nursing by noting that Nightengale's orga­nization was modeled after a religious group of nurses based in Germany and that a nun served as the first superinten­dent of the first professional nursing school. 
In the 20th century, these ties of religious institutions to hospitals linger primarily in the religious names of hospitals, he said. Instead, the modern asso­ciation of religious healing has consisted primarily of the con-
schools now 
offer courses in spirituality and healing. 
Meanwhile, the major tradi­tional religious groups have not ceased to have a hand in heal­ing, but instead have changed their methods for influencing health. 
One modern trend is for reli­gious groups to sell their hospi­tals to for-profit organizations and to use the money gained to promote preventative care. 
"It's not as though churches are getting out of the health care business," said Numbers. "They're just shifting their focus." 

Singles Raffle Tonight 
February 25th 7pm -12am 
Haggar Parlor SMC Campus 
Dance to follow Men and women will be raffled off! 
free to come, but must have money to 
bid. 

For more info call: Rene' Tern 284-5128 
Sponsored by the Sisters of Nefertiti, Notre Dame chapter of the NAACP, and La Fuerza. 
Castellina: Culture protects diversity 
By KRISTEN ALLEN 
News Writer 
The cultures of nations should reflect the diversity of their region to avoid one cul­ture becoming dominant, said Luciana Castellina, presidente commisione of Italy. 
"The role of culture is to preserve diversity," said Castellina. "[Diversity] is the primary anthropological function of culture." 
It is difficult to define European culture as a whole 
t h e

"Ninety-six percent of the
because 
antitrust 

the regions films seen in America are 
legislation,

that bor­
made in America . ... It's a s a i d 
der Europe 
tremendous deprivation Castellina.
also influ­
"[Each] 

e n c e for American children to 
culture

European see the world in their own should have
culture, 
no more
eyes.

s a i d 
than a

Castellina. 
share of the 

A Luciana Castellina 
culture of

European 
presidente commisione of Italy the world," 
man with­out the Mediterranean is like a man without his childhood," she said. 
To explain the problem of cultural identification, Castellina uses popular movies because she believes they are indicative of what is going on in peoples' minds, of what's popular in society today. 
"Movies are American by definition," said Castellina. "Hollywood is the 'mother­land' of movies." 
In Europe, there is no exchange of movies between the countries. Europeans watch American films and those of their own country. 
"It is so exceptional 
to see a 
"You cannot reduce the s a i d

F r e n c h 
movie that richness ofthe world to Castellina. 
It is more

you say, just one thing -you 
than a'Tonight, I 

need the flavor means of

am going to see a of the region." produc­
tion, and aF r e n c h 

historical

movie.' 
Luciana Castellina 
memory

When you 
presidente commisione of Italy without

go to see an American movie, it's just 'I'm going to see a movie,'" said Castellina. 
Last week, Castellina took her 5-year-old grandson to see an African movie. After watching the film, he declared that Tarzan was better than the film's hero because he was big and strong. 
The child's imagination is just Disney because that is what he watches, Castellina said. The historical accuracy of Disney's movies does not matter to him. 
This problem of cultural diversity is not unique to just Europe. It can be found in America as well. 
"Ninety-six percent of the films seen in America are made in America. All the rnst of society, the 5 million, 900 thousand non-Americans count for four percent. It's a tremendous deprivation for American children to see the world in their own 11yes," said Castellina. 
The small enterprises of Europe allow for experimen­tation. The films they create may not be marketable right now, but they may be good in the future. 
"If Europe becomes like Hollywood, there's no hope for anybody," said Castellina. "Who's going to risk?" 
Products of the global mar­ket must be deprived of some of their historical identity to be marketable to other coun­tries, said Castellina. European policy is safe­guarding the right to pre­serve its specialization with­out which cultural identity couldn't exist. We should apply the criteria of 
she said. 
T h e r e should be space for all cul­tures, she said. "The impor­tance of space and distance is disappearing, and when it disappears, you are losing something" said Castellina. 
When distance no longer counts, you stand at risk to have a dominant culture, added Castellina. 
"This loss is felt in Europe, and there's this tendency to turn inward -to become a refugee in your own cul­ture," she said. 
The disappearance of space and geography carries great ambiguity -an ambi­guity that we all need to think about and land is important to culture, 
which all 
t.radition and identity would be lost, she added. 
"Awareness is coming out that identity is important and must be preserved so it can be exchanged," said Castellina. "You cannot reduce the richness of the world to just one thing ­you need the flavor of the region." 
Currently, Castellina is president of Eurovisioni, a European network. She is a member of the Information Society Forum, a consulta­tive committee of the European Union, and presi­dent of Italiacinema, the national agency that pro­motes Italian cinema abroad. She is also a former member of the Italian and European parliaments where she chaired the committee on culture, media and interna­tional economical relations. 
Castellina's lecture, "Questions of Identity in Contemporary Europe," was sponsored by The Nanovic Institute for European Studies. 

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 25, 2000 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
constitution exactly," folks said. "In fact, if there are com­plaints that the stud,mt body wasn't represented, this is not true. There were dorm repre­sentatives at our meeting and they each had a say in the decision." 
Osborn stressed that the appeal was not 
"We have been told that the second election was null. Kelly [Folks] said it was nullified. Thus, the students' votes did not count." 
However, Pat Foy, off-cam­pus senator, agreed with Folks' statement that the pri­mary elminated all tickets except Ilanovcr/Micek and O'Donoghue/Norton, and thus the Osborn/Donahey appeal should not be accepted. 
"After you losr the primary 
election, you 
do not count 

simply to "We feel we have lhe any more," 
win the F~paid.
opportunity now to set
presiden­Even if cy, but things straight and gicJe you want to 
rather to students faith in the count, you do 
make sure not," he said.
president and
the stu­"Because dent voice vice president. ,. Hanover was was con-disqualified, sidered. there was
John Osborn
" Th e one. unop­
presidential candidate
election posed ticket 
here and earlier this month at Saint Mary's has hurt student government's reputa­tion," Obsorn said. "The stu­dent body and faculty need to see legitimacy. They need to understand the clear process by which leaders arc elected. More than anything we are looking to restore confidrmce in student leadership." 
Obsborn continued his argu­ment by asking senators to consider trying to strengthen the reputation of student gov­ernment. 
"As a student, I want to know that my vote counts and as a leader I want to know that the students chose to elect me," he said. "We feel we have the opportunity now to set things straight and give stu­dents faith in the president and vice president. 
"Right now the entire process is in question and we'd like to urge everyone to take this opportunity to vali­date student government and its lead­
"We are grateful we
ership." 
Some sen­finally have the ators said opportunity to start 
the two pre­
working. It's time to begin
vious elec­
tions were the journey toward 
legitimate everything Notre Dame and there 
and her students can and 
was no need 
will be." 
to accept the appeal and have a 
Brian O'Donoghue
third elec­
student body
tion. 
president-elect
"There is 

a process," s a i d Brendan Dowdall, Dillon Hall senator said. "We have a legiti­mate candidate because the process was followed to the letter, to the spirit, to whatev­er. I stand behind the Judicial Council's decision." 
Candice Marcum, Welsh Family Hall senator, agreed that students had a choice in the election. 
"The [Hanover/Micek) ticket was not disqualified until 7 o'clock on the night the results were countrd. Thus. up to that point, students did have a choice and the run-off was valid." 
Ryan Recker, Zahm Hall sen­ator, disagreed. 
remaining. 
The rules were followed exactly as they are written." 
After the debatP, the Osborn/ Donahey appeal was denied by an 18-2 vote. 
Reactions following the deci­sion varied. 
'Tm glad the senate finally derided the election, it seems there's no limit to what they can do," said Dan Peate, par­liamentarian. 
Becker also shared frustra­tions. "Student Senate elected the president tonight. They made the decision who was going to be president. That's 
what I have a problem with," he said. 
Others disagreed. 
"All the senate did was uphold the recommendation made by the Judicial Council," Foy said. "We did not choose the president. We made no choice here tonight except to follow their leadership." 
Ed Foy, Knott Hall senator, 
said that the Judicial Council's decision 
had  to  be  
upheld  in  
order  to  

control future elec­tions. 
"Clearly the Judicial Council did the best job they could [by disquali­fying the Hanover/ Micek ticket for viola­
tions). Otherwise we would be allowing people to run their campaign how ever they want­ed." 
President-elect O'Donoghue said he hopes the elections are finally over. 
"We arc grateful we finally have the opportunity to start working," he said. "It's time to begin the journey toward evr.rything Notrn Damr, and her students can and will be." 
In other senate news: 
. Phil Dittmar, current Fisher Hall senator, was unan­imously rlected off-campus senator for 2000-2001. 

CORRECTION 
. Thursday's Saint Mary's class elriction article should have stated that the Katy Robinson ticket, not the Erin Callahan ticket, had 49 percent of the vote. 
The 0bseruer regrets the error. 
ND coaches, Malloy support ban 
. House, Senate consider bill that will ban gambling on college sports 
Associated Press 

SOUTH BEND, Ind. 
Notre Dame coaches and 
administrators Thursday 
pledged their support for a bill 
banning wagering on high 
school. col­
lege and Olympic events, saying it's needed to protect the integrity of the game. 
"I think 


we all real-.. Davie ize there are issues out there that cause us great concern because they make us put our athletes in a vulnerable situation," football coach Rob Davie said. "As coaches, there's no situation that causes us greater concern than gambling. I think this legis­lation not only protects the integrity of the game, but more importantly, protects our ath­letes." 
Davie and Irish basketball coaches Matt Doherty and Muffet McGraw flanked Rep. Tim Roemer, D-lnd., as he announced a push for the bill despite opposition from House leaders, who have said the legis­lation stands no chance of pass­ing. 
Roemer, whose district includes South Bend and the campus, said the legislation would give fans assurances that events such as Notre Dame's 78­7 4 comeback win over Rutgers on Saturday in women's baskAt­ball happened without the influ­ence of gamblers. 
"l introduced this bill back in Washington, D.C., to protect the integrity of college, high school and Olympic athletics to the magic of the sport, to make sure that the beauty and the uncer­tainty of competition stays in our athletic venues," said Roemer, who is co-
lion, according to the state Gaming Control Board. An esti­mated 30 percent to 40 porcent of that was bet on college sports. 
The National Gambling Impact Study Commission last year rec­ommended banning wagering on college and amateur athletic events. 
''What gambling can do is erode the confidence that what's taking place is a real event," said university president Father Edward Malloy. "It can make people question whether it's like professional wrestling, which may be entertainment in some sense of the term, but is all scripted ahead of time." 
Notre Dame has made a push 
to warns its 

sponsoring "I think this legislation athletes of the 
the bill in the dangers associ­
not only protects the 

House with ated with gam­
Rep. Lindsey integrity ofthe game, but bling since for­Graham, R­more importantly, mer Irish 
S.C. place-kicker
protects our athletes. " 

The legisla­K e v i n tion -which Pendergast has been Bob Davie was sentenced 
introduced in to two months
football coach

the Senate by Sen. Patrick Lt1ahy, D-Vermont, and Sen. Sam Brownback. H-Kan. ­would amend a 1992 federal law that bans gaming on athletics except in four grandfathered states. 
Nevada is the only one of the four that allows widespread sports betting. The state's gam­bling industry took in $2.3 bil­lion in sports wagers in fiscal 1999. earning nearly $99 mil-
in prison in 
1 9 9 8 . Pendergast admitted to orches­trating a point-shaving scheme involving players from the Northwestern basketball team. 
"You see that good people get caught making mistakes," Davie said of Pendergast, who has spo­ken to Irish athletes about his gambling troubles. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used books bought and sold -25 Categories of Books -25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock -Out-of-Print search service: $2.0l' -Appraisals large and small 
OPEN NOON TO SIX TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY 1027 E. WAYNE SOUTH BEND, IN 46618 
(219) 232-8444 


NEED A LITTLE 
EXTRA CASHI 
A,.oS. \F E•EO.'\••~ c.,.,. ..,. Gt.f' -r~.,~ L,rr,,a.
.,.,o,.,111e.c.­
'-I• ... .,-;bfiW1,\°"1. 
'5,'Sol~t-lf\Ulo'T' Of' 
"''°''"'b, \....,,.o, •• 
• •\.P•·' p.. 
THE PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES••• 
WHERE LEAD BECO.MES 
(§)@J(bfl) ! ! ! 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING: TUESDAY, 2/29/00, 5PM IN LA FORTUNE'S MONTGOMERY AUDITORIUM 


-.·.··.·.··. 
. 
.
orld 
1 -­
Ml/% 
friday, February 25, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Pope begins Egypt pilgrimage 
CAIRO, Egypt 
Denouncing violeuce in the name of religion as "an offense against God." Pope John Paul II called for tolerance on Thursday as he began a visit to Egypt. where clashes between Muslims and Christians rncrntly left 23 pcoplo dead. In bt1ginning his µilgrimage to retrace some of the Ppic passages from the Bible, John Paul Jrncame the first Homan Catholic pope to visit prodominantly Islamic Egypt. The pontiffs three-day Egypt trip also gave him an opportunity to promote closer dialogue with Muslims and to try to overcome old rifts with Orthodox Christians. The pope raised the isstw of tolerance among religious groups, speaking in general tP.rms, as is his custom. John Paul said his planned visit to Mount Sinai on Saturday, where tradition says God gave Moses the Ten Commandments, "will be a moment of intense prayer for peace and for interrnligious dialogue." 
Clinton to revive economics in Internet, new markets 
PHILADELPHIA 
Waxing nostalgic about eight years' worth of his fiscal policies, President Clinton on Thursdav courted support for his plan to keep the ecm{omy rolling along on the strength of the Internet and expansion into new markets. Clinton went to the University of Pennsylvania to lay out his vision for the economy before about 800 students. facultv and business lead­ers. lie said he will gather economists, CEOs and other experts at the White House on April 5 to explore "the big cutting-edge economic issuPs still bef'orr us." "I want to ask them to identifv wavs we can build on America's str!'ngths ancl dnal with our continuing weak­lJCSS!'s." Clinton said. 
Latin American countries seek closer ties 
VILt\MOURA, Portugal 
Tlw European Union and 18 Latin American nations pledgr,d Thursday to pursue closer eco­nomic and trade ties, concluding three days of meetings highlighted by discussion of two upcoming free-trade accords. In a joint state­ment, foreign and trade ministers from the EU and Latin America said they want to see a fresh round of world trade liberalization talks after the failure to reach agreements in Seattle last November. Colombian Foreign Minister Guillermo Fernandez de Soto told reporters the meeting produced "a degree of consensus to strengthen the multilateral trading system." 

S&P 500: Composite 
Volume:
1353.4.3

10092.63 1,159,523,000
-7.26 
VOLUME UADERS 

CO!!!PMIY 'l'It:KEN ' CH.AN<.£ I CHANQ:E PRICE 
VERTIC.Alo COMPttr  VCSY  -28."6  -1,3ll3  3.-U  
~LL COMPOT!:R  0.11:LL  . J:,4,)  +1. aoso  4:LlB  
!NTEL CORP AK1&1UC1t. ONLINE.  tNTC AC~  +.i. 7&..,.,.,,';l  +5. U75 +l..H,'1~  114.25 ti0.00  
CISCO .S'tSTEMS  csco  -. i9  -1.l7SO  l3'1.25  
ORACLE CORP  ORCL  -1. 78  -1.1225  61.94  
MlCltO:OJorr C01':P LUCS?ff T~C'.ff INC Q!JALCONM INC  M!IFT•o QCOM  +D. 53.,.u -4., a,  +o. ~ono +3. 2.1.50 -7.1850  5-' .1'5. S6.12 lJ!l.6.9  
N1'.SDAQ 100 SRAJ>  OQQ  +2. l6  •4.!,000  11.1.00  

MOZAMBIQUE 


AFP Photo 

Mozambicans from the city of Chokwe disembark from a boat after crossing the flooded Limpopo river, some 200 kilometers northwest of Maputo. A cyclone in t_he wake of he~vy rains and fl~ods has killed at least 17 people. Pressing government calls for emergency assistance were raismg some foreign help. 
Survivors look to governlllent for aid 
Associated Press 
XAI-XAI 
With many roads and bridges washed out, an air relief operation accelerated Thursday for victims of flooding that has killed 70 in Mozambique and sub­merged much of the coun­try in muddy water. 
Rainstorms, meanwhile, persisted in neighboring areas of southern Africa, exacting a deadly toll. 
In South Africa's 

Troops commit to Congo under U.N. 
Northern Province, 10 peo­ple have died since Wednesday night when their water-soaked houses collapsed, and two others drowned when they were swept away by fast-running rivers. 
In Zimbabwe, torrential rain forced 250,000 people to evacuate their homes. Five people have died. Others marooned by flood­waters had to fend off ven­omous snakes that also fled to high ground. 
Record levels of rainfall began drenching southern Africa at the beginning of February. Cyclone Eline, which surged ashore Tuesday with heavy rains and winds howling at more than 100 miles an hour, added to the misery. 
On Thursday, a French Cl60 military cargo plane ferried loads of aid to outly­ing depots in Mozambique for further distribution to victims by helicopters. Two private helicopters from South Africa arrived Thursday in Mozambique's 
orated on the type of sup­port, but in past missions that has included trans­portion and communica­tions. 
Many council members recognize that sending such a small mission to a country a quarter the size of the Unil.ed States with few roads and poor com­munications may no!. be militarily effoctive but can be politically important. 
"The Security Council has takf'm a critical step to help the Congo come to a peace that its people so desperately need," said Holbrooke, who devoted his presidency of the coun­capital of Maputo to assist five South African Air Force helicopters with food drops. 
The helicopters also have plucked more than 3,000 people from rising floodwa­ters, including from trees and rooftops. 
Since the air operation began, 270 tons of food and medical supplies have been delivered, said South African Air Force Maj. Louis Kirsten. • 
From the air, it appeared an inland sea had settled over much of Mozambique. 
cil last month to African issues. "The time has now arrived to act." 
The Congo observer mis­sion is expected to cost around $500 million for the first 12 months. Other peacekeeping operations will cost $1. 56 billion for the year ending June 30. 
This is the fourth major 
U.N. peacekeeping opera­tion approved by the Security Council in eight months. It had already agrerd to s1rnd 4,800 civil­ian police to Kosovo, l 1.100 peacekeepers to Sierra Leone, and 10,800 peacekeepers and civilian police to East Timor. 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 
Half a year after six 11ations and three rebel groups signed a cease-fire on Congo, the U.N. Security Council on Thursday authorizPd a 5,500-sl.rong observer force to monitor its imple­mentati on and lay the groundwork for possible dPployment of a peace­keeping force. 
The former combatants are already pressing for I.he United Nations tu send peacekeepers, but the Security Council first wants the opposing sides to honor the cease-fire. 

The 15-member council unanimously agreed to the U.S.-drafted resolution to send 500 military observers, supported by 5,037 security troops and logistics personnel. The group will verify that all parties are observing last summer's cease-Iire aimed at ending a 1 1/2-year war in Congo that has destabi­lized central Africa. 
U.S. 
Ambassador Hichard Holbrooke has said the United States will not provide troops but may provide logisl.ical support. 

U.S. 
offirials have not elab­



page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 25, 2000
r 
t 

from the 
u s 
Department of Justice, ESPN, John W i I e y Publishing, A B C Nightline and Brown and Wood, LLP, are among the companies 
said Svete. 
Got 
News 
?
• 
1-5323 
"[Arts and letters majors] need to sit down to

"We want to create a 
think and standard so maybe assess what they want,"
schools can model 
Lau said, list­

after us." 
ing possibili­ties such as consulting, communica­

Tim Lau 
career assistant 
tions, human 
resources. 
translating 
to us," said Lau. "We will we!­

cinema@thesnite 

Fri. &Sat. 7:00 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. 
presented by ND Film, Television, and Theatre www.nd.edu/~cothweb 
Coming Soon: Citizen Kane Mon. 7p. m. 
come them and advise them to the best of our abilitv." 
Yet, students have concerns about the quality of advising. Jenkins noted that she had no idea which aspect of finance she should pursue. 
"There's really no one to help you narrow down your decision," she said. 
For students with clear career goals, though, the sys­tem appears to work well. 
"I knew exactly what I want­ed t.o do," said Weidner, an accounting major. Ile explained that he simply sub­mitted his resume via Go IRISH, was invited for inter­views and received several job offers. 
Jenkins also had success, 
although  her  experience  
required  more  individual  
effort.  

"It was definitely a lot of work on my part. The opportu­nities are there, you just have to know where to find them," she said. 
SMC hosts younger siblings, relatives 
By MOLLY McVOY News Writer 
As Little Sibs Weekend 2000 starts this week, Saint Mary's residcncc halls will bP. home to the siblings and cousins of cur­rent students.. 
This year's weekend will have a turnout much higher than usual with an increase of l 00 participants more than last year. 
The theme of the week­dance and car­
"The kids are given an

end is "How nival, with the 
the Little opportunity to come, stay 
theme "The 

Sibs Stole 
overnight in a residence Grinch Who 

S a i n t S t o I e
hall and see what activi­

Mary's" and 
Christmas," 

more than ties go on here." arc also 400 students planned for and sibs will 
the weekend. 
Kris Anne Wilson 

participate. 
Wilson anx­
Sibs Weekend coordinator

Kris Anne 
Wilson, one of the week-end's coordinators, is excited about the weekend and said it is an important part of the Saint Mary's experience. 
"I think it provides an oppor­tunity for the students and sib­lings to have a weekend of fun," she said. "They can spend time together doing things they probably wouldn't have the chance to do otherwise." 
Aside from being a bonding experience, Little Sibs Weekend offers these children a chance to experience Saint Mary's and get a small taste of college life. 
"I think it helps promote Saint Mary's," Wilson said. 
..The kids are given an oppor­tunity to come, stay overnight in a residence hall and see what activities go on here." 
The committee has enough activities to keep both students and sibs busy for the entire weekend. A scavenger hunt will start on Friday night and con­tinue throughout the weekend. 
The Glee Club's Undertones will also perform for the stu­dents on Friday and a pool party is planned for Saturday 
morning. A 
iously antici­pates the Saturday pool party in Regina. 
"We're most looking forward to the Hawaiian pool party," she said. "They always have had the pool open. but they've never planm~d a pool party as an event. It should ht) grnai." 
Althletes from the Notre Dame football team, as well as the men and women's soccer team ,viii also be making a visit on Saturday to sign autographs for the siblings. 
Of course, as in any good sleep over, movies, cookies. milk and pl<•nty of pizza will be provided. Tlw sibs will Im arriv­ing Friday allnrnoon and activi­ties are planned until Sunday morning. 

ENTRY-LEVEL OPPORTUNITIES 
YOU'Vtt BEEN RAZZED FOR BEING SO ENERGETIC. AROUND HERE, YOU'LL GET 
.PROMOTED FOR IT. 

Let's gel rigl;t lo thipoint. You're looking for a career that puts your brainpower_10 
,V<,rk. One that gives you the freedom to make important decisions and the 11uthor1ty to 
make them fl\'. And you want an opportunity that makes the most or every talent you 
possess. One.that financially rewards you for your contributions-not your tenure. Well 
guc._, whul! Yo\l'Vc ju~tfout,d it. Entt:rprlse Rent•A-Cur h_a~ entry l?vel ~anagcment 
opportuniti'-"' that gil·cyotl the rrel-dmn n, niakt' crtt1r111 decmons. .lmn u& and have . 
hands"on involvement in ~vtr~ aspect or husincfis mana(!Cn1en1 • from ~ales and m~~ketmg 
1., cuslmncr service nnd adminL,trution. This growlh opporh1nlty offers a cnmpct1hvc 
.alary and hcn~lil, pwckage. ,\ college dL-grl'C h preferred. 
Use Your Head. Join Enterprise. St. Mary's campus interviews on February 22nd. 8:45am • 4:45pm, LeMans hall. Notre Dame campus interviews 011 February 29th. 8:30am-5:00pm, l<'lanner Hall. 
For consideration, please contact: Enterprise Rent-A•Car Lori Boecher •·.. p:Q:.Z,S. MailtSt SouthBend. IN 46601 Fax: (2l9) 289-2640 Email: lboecher@crac.com 

''"'" ,OrcalltoHcf~e:h888-~W-ERAC '~/ · ' Apply on~Ifoe at: www.erac.cmn
,~ja''m';.3;i-w 
Weare an eqU$I

'i:~•iiil-lii-iilil-111-111-•-1111¦-......1111!-!ll--¦1-•---opportunity employer 

mi/-...__• . .-ent-a-car 
·•'¾, .. 
Lookingfowar anotb~r night BRENGLISH. 
Career 
continued from page 1 

"The philosophy is students come first," said Svete. Students can receive assis­tance without an appointment at the Career Center from 1:30 
p.m. -4 p.m. every weekduy. 
Svete noted that Flanner Hall is not convenient for many students. Career coun­selors are now available in LaFortune and O'Shaughnessy for several hours un Mondays. 
Other services include mock interviews and resume work­shops and critique. 
Notre Dame's quest for lead­ership extends to the Career Center. 
"We want to create a stan­dard so maybe schools can model after us," said career assistant Tim Lau. 
Already other institutions are taking notice. Purdue and Florida State will visit this spring. 
Despite the Center's efforts. a common perception on cam­pus is that the Career Center caters to hnsiness students rather than their arts and let­ters peers. 
Svete acknowledged that the center has a strong reputation for business and engineering careers. 
He stressed. however, that the center has been working to increase opportunities for arts and letters students. The cen­terpiece of their efforts is the March 24 arts and letters career fair. Representatives 
Career counseling for arts and letters majors presents a special challenge, said Lau. 
In majors, such as business and engineering, curriculums teach specific skills that pre­pare students for specific careers. arts and letters majors have a wide variety of options. 
slated to attend. 

"We are intentionally culti­vating new contacts for stu­dents who might not have thought to use our services," and foreign relations. 
The Career Center. however, needs the student to make the first effort. 
"They must come in to talk 


Friday, February 25, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Lerner discusses options available to cancer patients 

only ifwe give it space to." 
At his Cancer Help Programs, patients participate in yoga, meditation and massage in order to step away from hectic every­day life and the stress of fighting serious diseases. 
"We have people who have been battling with cancer for years -from treatment to treat­ment, always in a hurry -and we bring them to a nourishing, quiet place," Lerner said. 
Nanni stresses community bonds 
By CHRISTINA McINTYRE 
i\:ews Wrirer 
Promoting a tighter sense of community despitr the vari­ous cultural and economic boundaries which face the South Bfmd arna., Lou Nanni, executive assistant to University president Father Edward t\1olloy, spoke at the First Unitarian Church on Thursday night. 
Nanni stressed the impor­tance of relationships within the community. "There is no quick or easy way to build communitv and vou can't build comrnunity in any way but one relationship at a time," Nanni sairl. 
Forming such relationships across the homeless divide is especially difficult, but is essential to the whole com­munitv. "The homeless neerl the larger society just as much as the larger society needs the homeless." Nanni said. 
According to Nanni, four steps are necessary to tran­SCP.rnJ this dividP.. 
"We must do four things: walk with them, listen to them, engage in dialogue with them, and break broad together. The journey is 
painful, the journey is long, but the benefits and joy far exceeds the pain and hard­ship," he said. 
Problems arise within com­munities when its members will not devote enough time to concentrate and focus on these steps. 
"Whatever sector, most leaders are inattentive to the first two steps. Instead, they 'talk at' and 'do for'," Nanni said. 
There must be a willing­ness, he stressed, to listen and to learn from the home­less. "You must let them know that they have something sig­nificant to share and you must have a hunger to tap into their wisdom and broken­ness." 
Previously executive direc­tor of the Center for the Homeless for eight years, Nanni, a Notre Dame gradu­ate, helped transform it "from a concept with humble begin­nings to national promi­nence," according to Chuck Leone , member of the First Unitarian Church congrega­tion. His lecture was the sec­ond of a three-part series at the Church that focuses on supporting community in an individualistic society. 
"Things come bubbling up, and we give them different ways to express those things -fear, concern, sadness, regret. It real­ly has incredible impact." 
Similarly, Lerner's patients get in touch with their creative side through such activities as art therapy and evening poetry \\.rit­ing. 
"As we grow up, we are sepa­rated from our creativity," he said. "To reconnect an adult in America with creativity is pow­erful. Creative power is healing." 

Finding meaning constitutes the final aspect of healing, Lerner said. 
Ile noted that patients with strong religious, spiritual or other meaningful belief systems are able to carry their disease with Sflrenity rarely found in those without a sense of mean­ing. 
Lerner went on to discuss con­ventional and complementary approaches to treating cancer. 
"Conventional therapy is the logical starting point as it pro­vides the only proven cure," he said. "However, many people view modern medicine as a monolith. How can you argue with a doctor, when it is actually incri>dibly pluralistic?" 
Ile emphasized the aggressive nature of cancer treatment in the U.S., noting the cultural dif­ferences in treatments from country to country and encour­aged patients to find doctors in tune ½ith their unique and intu­itive preferences. 
"Evf'fy patient has their own style of risk," Lerner said. "If they can find a treatment team that accommodates their style of risk, from conservative to aggressive, the patients' intu­itions can be brought into the heart of mainstream medicine without compromising the treat­ment or the patients' ideas." 
On the issue of complementary therapy, Lerner was quick to point out that he has seen no clear-cut cure for cancer among unconventional approaches. 
However, he said that "intu­itively, the best oncologists are moving towards integration of conventional and complemen­tary cancer treatments." 
Especially significant in com­plementary treatment are what he termed the "vital quartet," consisting of spiritual, psycholog­ical, nutritional and physical healing. These "intrinsically health-promoting" aspects lead to better quality of life and better functional status, which in turn are predictors of enhanced sur­vival. 
"It isn't rocket science to understand that people begin to feel bettor when they are spiritu­ally and psychologically healthy, eating a good vegetarian diet and physically active," Lerner said. "We can view complemen­tary treatment as 'mental hygiene' -in the future, lack of such treatment may be seen as just as primitive as lack of physi· cal hygiene during surgery." 
Moving on to discuss the patient choice areas of pain, suf­fering and death, Lerner empha­sized that these aspects of can­cer, so often considered nega­tive, need not be viewed in such a dismal light. 
While noting that many patients do not receive adequate pharmacological pain control and mentioning acupuncture and other unconventional pain treatments, Lerner also focused on the yoga ideal of "acceptance of pain as an aid to purification." 
"Jf you run from pain it pur­sues you," he said. "If you step towards it, it steps back." 
Similarly. he said that many patients refuse to think about death and dying in a desperate attempt to keep a positive atti­tude. This way of thinking, he claims, is brittle and inhumane. 
"Allow yourself to experience and express whatever comes up," he said. "The depths of peace and joy that come from acknowledging feelings is far more truly positive than attempt­ing to keep up a cheerful exteri­
or." 
In reference to his Cancer Help Program and complementary treatment in general, Lerner focused on the emotional and psychological benefits above all else. 
"We make no claims about whether the Help Program extends life or not," he said. "But it does play a powerful role in expanding life with cancer, and that is no trivial thing." 

By BRIGID S~'EENEY News Writer 
When MicfiaPI Lerner's father was diagnosed with non­Hodgkin's lymphoma in the late 1970s. he began his research into all11rnative cancer therapies. 
More than 20 years later, he is thP president and founder of Commonweal. a health and envi­ronmental research institute in Bolinas, Calif.. as well as the author of "ChoicP.s iri Healing: Integrating the Best of Ctmvf'ntiona I and Complementary Approaches to Cancer." 
During a prcsontation of the same Litle Thursday evening in McKenna Hall, Lerner outlined the five areas of choice available to cancer patients, including healing, conventional therapy, complemrmtary thPrapy, pain and suffering and death and dying. 
I.erner f'ocusPd heavily on the healing aspect of the canc.;er oxporifmcc, relating the experi­PTH'.e he has gainml from leading weeklong Cancer llelp Programs compos~,d of meditation, mas­sage, poetry and other mind­body techniques. 
"While curing essentially seeks to offor treatment aftPr which you will live as long as you would have ifyou had never had the ill­ness. healing comes from within and encompasses the physical, mental, emotional and spiritual aspects," he said. "Healing takes place in both living and dying." 
Healing, Lerner said, consists of imagery, creativity and mean­ing, which can combine to create a transformational experience for cancer patients. 
Imagery. often stereotyped among seriously ill as picturing healthy cells gobbling up cancer cells. reallv covers a much broader scope, according to Lerner. 
"Imagery is the language of the unconscious," he said. "It seeks to communicate with us 

page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, February 25, 2000 
Ex-Mafia hitman Gravano arrested 
Associ:n:ed Press 

PHOENIX 
Former Mafia hitman Salvatore "Sammy the Bull" Gravano, a turncoat whose testimony helped put crime boss John Gotti behin<l bars, was arrested Thursday for involvement with a drug ring, police said. 
Gravano, 54, was not sell­ing narcotics 
but helped "You can't change the from the finance the 
nature ofa man ... [expletive]
drug ring and 
Mafia,"

{Gravano} is a reprobate,
was a "men­
Gravano

tor" to the a craven lia1:" told tlrnring's leader, 
Republic
Michael Papa, last year.

Bruce Cutler
the founding Gravano

member of a John Gotti's attorney 
w h i t e supremacist gang, said Phoenix police spokesman Jeff Halstead. 
Thirty-six members of the ring, whirh allegedly sold the drug ecstasy, were arrested including Papa, Gravano's wife, Debra; son Gerard; daughter Karen; and son-in­law David Seabrook. 
A judge set Gravano's bail at S5 million. 
"There is no violence in this case that I'm charged with ... this is a minor thing," Gravano said in court Thursday. 
Gravano, a hitman who admitted killing 19 people, ravaged the Mafia by defect­ing to the government and helping to convict Gotti and dozens of other gangland cronies. Authorities called him the most important mob turncoat in U.S. history. 
"His primary testimony against the mob doesn't give him a free ride to facilitate drug dealing in Arizona," state Attorney General Janet Napolitano said. 
His bombshell testimony. along with conversations secretly taped by the FBI, finally put Gotti, the so-called "Teflon Don," behind bars for life in 1992 after three previ­ous acquittals. 
Under his deal with prose­cutors, Gravano served only five years for racketeering. 
He then entered the federal witness protection program, but dropped out in 1997 say­ing he wanted to live normal­ly, not always looking over his shoulder for "some kid" hoping to "make a name for himself by taking me out." 
By 1999, he was making a new life in a Phoenix suburb, living under an assumed name but telling a reporter for The Arizona· Hepublic he didn't think he was in any real danger. 
"I'm not 
running 
w a s 
arrested at an apartment, and his wife. daughter and son-in-law were arrested at their 4.400­square-foot house, complete with swimming puol and three-car garage. Law enforcement agents were seen taking a pair of Lexuses and a boat from tho 1 1/2­acre lot Thursday. 
Residents in the upscale neighborhood sometimes whispered about the people who lived in the stucco house on the corner -they had heard the rumors. 
"We just decided to not spread the word who lived there. We felt that they had a right to live their life," said Kay Gianopulos, 71, who lives down the street. 
Police said the drug opera­tion sold up to 30,000 ecstasy pills a week in Phoenix and may have had links to other states. On its Web site Thursday, the Republic reported the ring targeted teen-agers and rave music clubs. 
"I was waiting for this," Bruce Cutler, an attorney for Gotti, said after Gravano's arrest. "You can't change the nature of a man ... He is a reprobate, a craven liar." 
Attorney Ron Kuby, who represents the families of Gravano's 19 murder victims in a civil suit, said Gravano's insistence that he was repu­diating his criminal ways had been a scam. 

Please join us for a discussion on the 

With 3 Falun Dafa practitioners from Chicago 
MONDAY, FEB. 28 5-6:30 PM 204 DEBARTOLO HALL 
Please join us in a discussion regarding the recent political suppression and human rights violations the .Falun Gong have faced in China and learn about their heJief system and exercises that have intrigued millions of followers. 
. . ' ' . . --. . . . . ~ . .. . . ·~ 
.. . .

••··, ....,.i-........ ;.:, ... ' ;.,41 '!II 
Truthfulness, Compassion, Tolerance 
Sponsor<>d hy Pi Sigma Alpha and the Center for Asian Stndies 
Texas executes convicted killer 
. Beets becomes fourth woman executed in U.S. history 
Associated Press 

HUNTSVILLE, Texas 
A 62-year-old woman was executed by injection Thursday after Gov. George W. Bush rejected her claim that she killed her fifth husband in self­defense and deserved a reprieve. 
Betty Lou Beets became the fourth woman to be executed in tho Cnitod States since the Supreme Court in 1976 allowed the death penalty to resume. She was the second woman executed in Texas since the Civil \iVar. 
She gave no final statement as she lay strapped to the death chamber gurney. She made no eye contact with the victim's family, but smiled at her attor­ney and a spiritual adviser watching through a window at her side. She continued smiling as she slipped into uncon­sciousness. 
Oeath penalty opporn~nts and domestic violence organizations had urged Bush to grant Beets a 30-day delay, arguing it would be consistent with his description of himself as a "compassionate conservative" in his presidential campaign. The delay was Bush's only option, since the state parole board did not recommend that her sentence be commuted to life in prison. 
During his 5 1/2 years as gov­ernor, 120 convicted killers have been executed in Texas, and Bush has said he is certain all of them were guilty. He spared one condemned inmate whose guilt, he said, was in doubt. 
"After careful review of the evidence of the case, I concur with the jury that Betty Lou Beets is guilty of this murder," Bush said in a written state­ment after returning to Texas from California, where he was campaigning for the Republican nomination. 
"I'm confident that the courts, both state and federal, have thoroughly reviewod all the issues raised by the defendant." 
Prosecutors said, Beets shot and killed two of her husbands, but she was only tried in the death of her fifth husband, Dallas Firo Captain Jimmy non Beets, nearly 17 years ago. Prosecutors said she killed him to rollPct his life insurance and pension. 
Beets and her lawyers insist­ed the former bartender-wait­ress was the victim or years of domestic abuse and should be allowed to live. 
On Thursday the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New Orleans rejected an appeal that accused the state of not follow­ing its own rules in reviewing Beets' case. The arguments were dismissed Wednesday by a federal judge in Austin as a delay tactic. 
Beets' lawyers also took the matter to the U.S. Supreme Court, which rejected it without comment. 
According to the governor's office. Bush had received 2,108 phone calls and lettors oppos­ing Beets· execution by Thursday afternoon, and 57 favoring it. 


Actors fro111 tl1e Lo11do11 Stag't~
All's Well That Ends Well 
by  W1lliam  Shakespeare  
Sunday Matinee. February 20 .......... 2:30 pm  Thursday. February 24 ........................ 7:30 pm  
Wednesday. February 23 .................... 7:30 pm  Friday. February 25 .............................. 7:3U pm  

Saturday. February 26 ......................... 7:30 pm 

Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats S16 • Seniors S14 • All Students S12 Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 
The residency ot Actors from me London Slage 1s sponsored. ,n pan. by ,he Henkels l2c1Gre Senes. 

Sophomores & all May 2002 Grad! $CHOLAR$HIP$ AVAILABLE NOWI 

If you are in one of the following majors, you canearn over s17,000 a year in AFROTC scholarship benefits 
Chemistry, Comp Info Systems, Comp Science, Math, Physics, Foreign Area Studies, or Languages Engineering majors: Aeronautical, Aerospace, Chemical., Civil, Computer, Elec., Environmental, Industrial, Mech., or Nuclear 

Notre Dame Film. Television and Theatre presents 
Don't waste a moment! tact Captain Klubeck at 631-4676, or Klubeck.1@nd.edu 

Friday, February 25, 2000 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
'Mall of America' couple sizzles; millionaire couple fizzles 
Student Services \Neek 
MONDAY: Free Bagels and Coffee/Hot Chocolate 9:AM -11 :AM Outside DeBartolo 
TUESDAY: Academic Lunches Kickoff Free Pizza/Subs 12:PM-1 :30PM LaFortune Ballroom 
WEDNESDAY: Free Give Away Men's Basketball Notre Dame v. Syracuse 9:PM JACC 
THURSDAY: Karoake at Dining Halls 5:30PM-7:30PM Prayer Service at Grotto 
FRIDAY: Time Capsule Ceremony 12:PM LaFortune 8:00PM 
Questions: Call Beth or Andrea at 631-7668 Sponsored by Student Government ·11 Bringing it All Together" 
• One marriage of perfect strangers succeeds, another fails 
Associatcd Press 
MINNEAPOLIS Love, with the proper stranger, ran work out. Elizabeth and David Weinlick offer themselves up as proof. 
Just likP the couple on "Who Wants to Marry a Multimillionaire?" thev met and marri1ed people thl~Y barely knew in elaborately planned media events. 
Hut while the TV couple's marriage is headed for annul­ment, the Weinlicks have enjoyed wedded bliss since June 13, 1998 -the day David Weinlick asked friends and fam­ily to choosP. a bridn for him from a crop of candidates. 
They were married on the spot at the Mall of America in Bloomington, Minn., drawing a crowd of 2.000 people and worldwide media attention. 
On a smaller scale, it was a lot like the attention given the ¥ox network's television special that aired Feb. 15 and drew more than 22 million viewers. 
that he threatened an ex-girl­friend. And bride Darva Conger said on "Good Morning America" Wednesday that she never wanted to marry Rockwell, that the couple barely spoke in their short time togeth­er, and that she cried on the plane en route to the newly­weds' honeymoon cruise in Barbados. 
John Singh, a licensed mar­riage counselor from the area, said the success of the Weinlicks' marriage is unusual. but not impossible. 
He added that "if the marriage is not based on love, honesty, and communication, it will be in jeopardy." 
The Weinlicks say they've been lucky to have a successful marriage, but have also worked hard at it. 
The Weinlicks have heard of other couples hoping to repeat their success, but so far they know of none that have done it. 
"People have to examine why they want to do it," Mrs. Weinlick said. "Don't do it because you're burnt out on dat­ing, or because you're dying to get married. Do it because you think it's a good way to build a healthy relationship." 
American Heart ft 
Association.v 
HERE ARE AFEW YOU SHOULD ALWAYS PAY ATTENTION TO. These are signs of stroke, or brain attack. Get help immediately. Get the message? For mcire information call AHA's SmoKE CONNECTION AT 
1-800-553-6321 
01191..uiericuHllf1AnDcilllOL 

With all of the c.;ontroversy arising from that show, the Weinlicks arc again the subjects of media attention -and ttrny're quick to defend their own get-married-quick union. 
Mrs. Weinlick watched the show and taped it for her hus­band, who "got his fill of it in a few minutes." fast-forwarding 
through most of the two-hour special. 
The Weinlicks said the series of multiple­choice ques­tions and beau­ty -pageant atmosphere weren't con­ducive to a good match, a sober commit­ment, or a last­ing choice. 
"There wern 

probably lots of women there [who] weren't serious about it," Weinlick said. "That's what we were doing during the 5 1/2 hours of intervieWlng candidates -finding out who was really ready to do this." 
Candidates to be Weinlick's bride, from around the country, 
Your brain sends 
billions
ofmessag 
to your body every second 

"Don't do it becuase you 're burnt out on dating, or because you're dying to get married. Do it because you think it's a good way to build a healthy relationship." 
Elizabeth Weinlick bride 
began arriving at the Mall of America's rotunda at 10 a.m. on the day of the wedding. By 3:30 p.m., most of Dave's friends were locked in on Elizabeth. 
She had spoken briefly with Weinlick while dropping off her application, and decided upon her first impression that she was prepared to take the unusual 
but a union of two people who were serious about a committed, long-term relationship -and trusting of Dave's extensive net­work of friends and family to choose his bride wisely. 
Since the Fox-TV wedding, groom Rick Rockwell has defended himself against a claim arrange­ment all the wav to de~th-do­us-part. 
T h e y insist that it was their attitude coming in that has allowed them to suc­ceed. Theirs was no made-for­TV stunt, 

All Together 



On ~arch 20, Student fiovernment will be sponsoring a St. Patrick's Day celebration. 
To help kickoff this celebration, there will beat-shirt contest (similar to last year). 
If you are interested, come up with a design and turn it in to the student government offices located on the 2nd floor of Lafortune. 
•Designs should be one-sided or two-sided with color. 
•Turn in designs by 
~onday february 28 before 5:P~. 
Questions: Call Beth or Andrea at 631-7668 Sponsored by Student fiovernment "Bringing it All Together" 
page 11

Friday, February 25, 2000 The Observer . RELIGIOUS NEWS 
Three Muslim groups to meet, raises speculations of unity 
Associated Press 
PLAINFIELD, Ind. 

Leaders of two orthodox 
Muslim groups long at odds 
with Louis Farrakhan's Nation 
of Islam are expected to attend 
Farrakhan's annual gathering 
this weekend. raising the 
prospect that the religion's 
fractured U.S. followers may 
eventually unite. 
Mainstream Islamic leaders 
from oiher nations also 
planned to attend the Nation of 
Islam Saviour's Day events in 
Chicago and will look for signs 
that Farrakhan's group is 
embracing orthodox Islamic 
beliefs, a leader of the key 
immigrant Muslim group in 
this country said Thursday. 
"They want to watch this 
transformation." said Sayyid 
Syeed. secretary general of the 
Islamic Society of North 
America. "They will be disap­
pointed if that transformation 
does not take place. There 
should at least be some com­
mitment in that direction." 
Meanwhile, Farrakhan and 
W. Deen Mohammed, the son of Elijah Muhammad and head of the black and orthodox Muslim American Society, have scheduled a joint news confer­ence Friday. The Islamic Society and other mainstream .\1uslirns recognize Mohammed's group as ortho­dox. 
Farrakhan and other Nation of Islam leaders did not return calls seeking comment. Messages left with the Muslim American Socioty, based in suburban Chicago, also were not rt"turned. 
However, an article posted Feb. 16 on the Nation of Islam's Web site quoted Ishmael Muhammad, an assis­tant to Farrakhan, as saying a "mega-highlight" of the Saviour's Day weekend would be the unification of the Nation of Islam with followers of W. Deen Mohammed. 
Syeed acknowledged the Nation of Islam would need time, perhaps years, to com­pletely move away from founder Elijah Muhammad's original doctrines, including a belief that whites are "devils." 
However, he said moves in recent years to observe the Friday prayers and to fast dur­ing the holy month of Ramadan had left him encouraged the 

Nation of I s l am w o u Id f u I I y embrace ortho­
d O X Y 
within four or f i V I" years. 
" W e h a v A noticed a desire on his part to intro­duce his followers 
t.o main­stream 
Saturday on fundamental prin­ciples of Islam and the need for the Nation of Islam to join a universal Islamic alliance in the United States. His society says it represents some 4 mil­lion Muslims in the United States, most of them immi­grants from Muslim countries. 
"Islam is a universal religion, for all races, all colors, all groups. We need to unite under one God, under one prophet and one universal brother­hood," Syeed said. 
Orthodox leaders are eager for Farrakhan's group to embrace conventional belief as fast-growing Islam seeks to join the American mainstream. Sveed said normalization would bolster the image of the 
"Islam is a universal religion, for all races, all colors, all groups. We need to unite under one God, under one prophet and one universal brotherhood." 
Sayyid Seed secretary general Islamic Society of North America 

Islam. We understand that these things cannot happen overnight," Syeed said in an interview Wednesday at the Islamic Society's headquarters in Plainfield. near Indianapolis. Syeed said he will speak 
religion, which many Americans associate chiefly with terrorist acts by Muslim activists abroad. 
Anti-white and anti-Semitic state­ments from Farrakhan and the Nation of Islam did nothing to help that public relations prob­lem, Syeed said. 
"Demonization has been our major r,hallenge in America," said Syeed, who directs the day-to­
day activities of the Islamic Sociely, an umbrella organiza­tion of 500 Islamic groups. 
Islam rejects the race theolo­gy that Farrakhan has preached in the past. 
Farrakhan, 66, has battled 
prostate cancer and said last December that a "near-death experience" earlier in the year had left him a changed man. Since then he has stressed unity for all races and reli­gions. 
The Nation of Islam has held its own interpretation of the Muslim creed, "There is no god but God and Mohammed is his prophet." 
The Farrakhan group has believed that God became 
incarnate in W.D. Fard of Detroit, who was Elijah Muhammad's teacher, and that Muhammad is the final prophet to mankind. Orthodox Muslims believe the final prophet was Mohammed of Mecca, who founded Islam in the seventh century. 
Elijah Muhammad led the Nation of Islam for decades, but after his death in 1975 his son W. Deen led the movement toward orthodoxy. 

..,.. VVhen: Wednesday March I "-Friday March 3•d 9;30 PM ..,.. Where: Montgomery Theater on the I" floor of Lafortune ..,.. Featured Films: 
"""' Wednesday: HEATHERS with Winona Ryder ..., Thursday: A LEAGUE OF THEIR OWN w,rh Geena Davi5 ..,.. \Mth an introduction from a former player ofthe AllAmerican Girf5 Profe55ionaf Ba5ebalf League -Friday: ~WITH Sigourney Weaver 
COME JOIN usm 

The Collegiate Jazz Festival is Here/ 

The first 150 ND Students at Friday's show will receive a FREE all-festival pass courtesy of the Student Activities Office Advance tickets available at the Lafortune 
Box Office 
www.nd.edu/-sub 

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25th Stepan Center: 
Evening concert block 7:30  Roosevelt University Jazz Ensemble  
8:15  Western Michigan University Jazz Sextet  
9:00  University of Michigan Jazz Ensemble  
9:45  Western Michigan University Jazz  
Orchestra  
10:30  Central Michigan University Jazz  
Percussion & Steel Orum Ensemble  
11:15  Judges' Jam  
Jimmy Heath (saxophone)  
Jimmy Owens (trumpet)  
fames Williams (piano)  
John Clayton Jr. (bass)  

Ed Shaughnessy (percussion) 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 26th Notre Dame Band Building: Afternoon Clinic 2-3:00 Clinic given by festival judges 
Evening concert block Stepan Center: 
7:30 University of Notre Dame Big Band 
8:15 Millikin University Jazz Band I 
9:00 Lawrence University Big Band 
9:45 University of North Florida Jazz Combo I 
10:30 University of Northern Iowa Jazz Band One 
Students & Senior Citizens Friday Evening Pass: $4 Saturday Evening Pass: $2 All Festival Pass: $5 
Non-Students Friday Evening Pass: $8 Saturday Evening Pass: $5 All Festival Pass: $12 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 12 BSERVER Friday, February 25, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Nocrc Dame, IN 46556 024 South Oining Hail. Notre Dame. IN 46~56 
FDITOII IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Pecelle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWl'0INT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOII: Brian Kessl.er 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADV£RTISING MANAGER: Bcyan Lutz 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Bree Huelat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik KushlO 
CONTROLLf:Jt: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDrroR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
0FFICt MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............... ........................ 631-6927 AnVERTISING.....................................631 •6900/8840 
observcr@darwi11.cc. nd .edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.......................................... .......631-5303 observer.viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOTO........................................................631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:!!ob,emer. nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather fur up-to-the 
weekly student reviews
minute forecasts 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
cial campus coverage 
and rates of pcim ads 
about The Observer 
archives to search for 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
sralf

August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prinr and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither insritution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on contenc. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, lettecs and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Ediror must be signed and must include contact informacion. 
Qum,ons regarding Ob,ervt'r po/icier should b, direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMiche!fe Knip,:,. 

Will peace last in Northern Ireland? 
The Irish have not been fighting. To the pleasure of the Brit.ish and most Irish, the 30 years of Northern lrnland terrorism has seemingly come to an end. With a few recPnt exceptions, Liam lhere has been 
Brennan 
peace in the North. The question 
Guest
remains, will it 
Column
last? Todav, the prospects do not look so good. The lessons of history and the events of the last few weeks do not plant the seeds of hope. 
The conflict in the North has often been portrayed as that of a religious war. However, the most recent events of terrorism, the last 30 years, exist in the wake of a great international move toward Christian unity. In the modern world, the Protestant-Catholic divide that so characterizes the conllict is an enigma. To the average socially con­scious believer, Christians should not terrorize anyone, least of all each other. Nonetheless, the roots of sectari­an conflict run deep within the so­called "British Isles." 
While the Reformation is often the story of the assertion of conscience against the corruption of a medieval church, in England the story was quite different. In his quest for a male heir, Henry Vlll broke ties with the Bishop of Rome and made himself head of the English Church. After the death of his young, sickly son, Henry's daughter Mary ascended to the throne. Upon deciding to restore Catholicism, Mary issued edicts condemning all Protestants to be burned at the stake. The purge of Bloody Mary gives births to the Protestant martyrs, and the roots of anti-Catholicism are placed deep in English society. When her half­sister, Elizabeth, became heir to the throne, there was little public outcry to her non-Catholic faith. 
But within this time Ireland remained unchanged. Its Catholic nature led British monarchs to encour­age migration from Great Britain to Ireland in the early 1600s. Land was granted to the Scottish, who. while not Anglican, were still more likely to be faithful to the crown than a Catholic in Ireland. 
The second wave of settlement in Ireland, launched by New English set-tiers in the mid-1600s, established the ironically named Church of Ireland as the de jure, but not de facto, official church. When Catholic ex-king James II failed in an attempt to reclaim the throne with a revolt from the Emerald Isle, the Penal Era began. Catholics were banned from education, their weddings and burials were forbidden and they were excluded from official public life. 

In England and Ireland, the Protestant-Catholic struggle has been one over authority and power. In the two countries, fighting did not break out because one group believed in pre­destination (the Presbyterians), the other in the supreme authority of the King (the Anglicans) and the other in the ecclesiastical authority of the Pope (the Catholics}. Hepression occurred in England in order to form a unilied country of one faith under one monarch. In Ireland, revolt occurred because political and economic rights were denied to the native people. The differentiation between the native peo­ple and the colonizers, the poor and the rich, the weak and the empowered was crystallized in one easy distinction, that between a Catholic and any Protestant. 
In the ensuing years, peaceful consti­tutional movements for Irish autonomy largely failed. It was only after the Fenian uprising that the so-called Church of Ireland was no longer dubbed the official church and that honest land reform occurred. Native Irish, mostly Catholics, learned from history that the powers in London would only listen to violence. It was only after large sectarian violence and terrorism during the First World War that the people of Ireland were given any home rule. But so as not to put the Protestant-dominated North under control of the greater Catholic popula­tion, the Partition Act of 1920 gave Ireland two parliaments: one in the South, which eventually became the Republic, and one in Northern Ireland, still a part of the United Kingdom. 
It is this sectarian history that these countries inherit today. Northern Ireland Protestants largely favor alle­giance to British rule, while Catholics tend to find more allegiance to the southern Republic. For 30 years, these divisions led to terrorist acts. The Irish Republican Army and the Ulster Defense Force (along with other fringe groups) had been battling it out, wag­ing senseless vio!fmce upon the civilian Catholic and Protestant populations. 
Today, there is peace in Northern Ireland, one that hinges on the Good Friday Agreement of 1998. Under the agreement, made between all parties in the North, the Irish Republic in the south and the British governmenl, counsels would be set up between Northern Ireland and the Republic to deal with issues pertaining to the island as a whole, the Hepublic would strike from its constitution any political claims made on the North and Northern Ireland would be given its own executive made from a power­sharing agreement of the Catholic par­ties and Protestant parties. These insti­tutions were conditional on the basis that Catholic and Protestant paramili­tary groups disarm by May 2000. 
In December, these reforms were instituted. Today, they are suspended. David Trimble, the head of the Protestant Ulster Unionist Party, promised to resign by Feb. 12 if IRA disarming had not started. With reports showing no IRA move to give up weapons, the British government thought it better to suspend the new Northern Ireland institutions than to see a possible political upheaval with Trimble's resignation. 
International history shows that democratic stability is based on politi­cal institutions' ability to take root and strengthen within society. History also shows periods of failed constitutional movements in Ireland followed by out­bursts of violence. The British govern­ment must quickly move to reinstate the political institutions of the Good Friday Agreement or face the possibili­ty of renewed violence in the North. 
The British government can answer prayers -those of the Catholic and Protestant majorities who voted for the agreement. Peace may look historically impossible, but history is the story of that which seems impossible becoming reality. England and Ireland have come too far to risk failing now. 
Liam Brennan is a junior government and theology major currently studying in London. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The English should give Ireland home rule and reserve the motion picture rights." 
Will Rogers comedian 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Friday, February 25, 2000 BSERVER page 13 
Binge drinking 
leads to dark days 
Today I am going to that I sc)cialized with; we sound off about something were all under the same that most anybody who social pressure and we all knows me is not going to succumbed. 
expect. I am  My darkest times  
going tu rally  though came in my  
against binge  last two years at the  
drinking.  University. The  
That's right.  summer between  
You heard me.  my fourth and fifth  
I said AGAINST  yem·s, while intern­ 
bingo drinking.  ing in South Bend, I  
Yrs. I have  went ont drinking to  
done my share  the point of drunk­ 
of binging and  Matthew  enness every single  
(regretfully) purging. But just bP,cause I  Loughran  night. One particu­lar morning, after drinking beer until 5  
did it doesn't  Random  a.m., 1went to work  
mean that l  Thoughts  at 9 a.m. unshaven,  

have to sup­port il. 
Not that I can imagine anyone coming out in FAVOR of this practice in the cold hard light of day, most of the people who would have the guts to do that won't see the sun because they are still trying to sleep off their Wednesday night pitchers. 
Within the first hour of my arrival at the dorms at Notre Dame back in 1993, a member of the dorm's orientation staff asked me over to help him assemble his bunk beds. In payment for the assistance he offered me a beer from his fridge. Thinking that I would get caught and that underage drinking was as prohibited there as in the outside world, I declined. But later. after a round of freshman "disorientation" that weekend, I realized that I could get away with just about any amount of drinking while I was at Notre Dame. 
My freshman-year room­mate didn't do a whole lot to !ix my view of social life at the University. He got drunk every night at vari­ous bars and parties. He slept through most of his classes and was constantly in trouble with the dorm staff and the Office of Residence Life. Despite the fact that watching him do this made me ill, he had friends and 1had none. His grades were skyrocketing. I was failing calculus. 
At one point that year, after a significant personal strain. I chucked any and all apprehension that I may have originally had and dccid(. d to try to tit in with the drinking r,ulturc that surrounded the social life at this school. In the follow­ing months and years l got more and more acquainted with the concept of binge drinking. It became a source of pride as to how much I could 1.lrink in "case races" and other insane beer games. The more par­ties that I went to or hosted at Notre Dame, the more friends I seemed to have. Of course. most of the friends that I did make in that time mean more lo me than just as drinking buddies. Do not take this column as an indictment of the people bleary-eyed and nu 
doubt smelling of beer. I fully believe that at that time, I was well on my way to alcoholism. 
But 1 stopped. 1 realized how stupid and disgusting that I was when I drank to the point of excess every night. I realized that, not only was I abusing my body, I was embarrassing mvself in front of all sorts or'sober people. Now I don't mean for this column to simply be a recounting of my drinking exploits. You want to read about those probably as much as I want to write about them. 
But binge drinking is a serious problem at Notre Dame and it pops up every once in a while, gets dis­cussed and a whole bunch of "serious" resolutions get passed. Most of those have only to do with Freshman Orientation, though. This socialization pressure comes from the upperclass­men and the already estab­lished sophomores. Now 1 am not advocating a dry campus or any tighter restrictions. But the stu­dents and alumni of Notre Dame have to rid them­selves of this ridiculous obsession with quantity of drinking. 
I have only had four beers over the last month, a far cry from my pace of six to 12 per night during that summer. Because I scaled back like that, I can juggle grad school and a full-time job without feeling bleary and used up every day. I can actually get up on Saturday and Sunday mornings. 
But, most importantly, I can sit here and tell you truthfull} that, although I may have starecl over the precipice of addiction many, many times during the last seven years. and despite my be·st efforts to the contrary, I am not an alcoholic. 
Matthew Loughran is a former Observer news editor and is currently attending graduate school at Saint John's College in Annapolis, Md. 
The views expressed in 
this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Become a 'Vagina Warrior' 
Vagina. It is not really that hard to say once you have acclimated yourself to the word. Soon you may even be using it in everyday conversation and not blushing when somebody mentions a woman's "privates.'' In fact, you may feel that you are empowered or feel some sort of reassurance by saying the word. You feel more in control of your body and that you finally belong to a sisterhood, if you didn't before. 
This is the type of effect that the Saint Mary"s 

C.A.R.E. and Feminist Collective tried to accom­plish in last week's per­formance of Eve Ensler's "Vagina Monologues." Many people may not have heard of the Vagina Monologues, but l am sure that everyone has heard of domestic vio­lence. The Monologues were written a few years ago by the playwright Eve Ensler in hopes of making women and men more aware of women's bod­ies and the issues that surround them 
everyday. The Monologues, contrary to --11111111-•lll••....-ing by with a t-shirt that says "Can you say 
mance are then donated to organizations that sup­
port women in various capacities and try to put an 
end to domestic violence. On Feb. 16, Saint Mary's welcomed a new era of sisterhood to the campus. We, the members of 
C.A.R.E. and Feminist Collective, would like to extend our great thanks and admiration to all women and men, who support­
ed us in a variety of capacities. By simply saying the word "vagina," you broke a social 
taboo, most especially Catherine Pittman, Katie 
Sullivan, Kelly Ignatoski, the counselors from the CDC, S.O.S., the YWCA 
and all of the volunteers. We could not have made it without your help. And 
to all of the wonderful, beautiful. talented women 
who were not afraid to stand on stage and be a voice for all of those who 
were never given one, words cannot express my gratitude. So the moral of the story is that 
the next time you see someone walk-

what many may think, were NOT meant to exploit women, but rather to spur informed dialogue and debate among people of all ages and races all around the world. First performed in New York as a one-woman show, the Monologues have hit hun­dreds of college campuses around the country, including Saint Mary's, trying to spread its mes­sage and create dialogue by, about and for women. 
All of the proceeds garnered from each perfor-
VAGINA?" take the time to ask questions! Where would be if no one had ever asked WHY? Celebrate Women and never be afraid to be a Vagina Warrior! 
Sara Salazar 
Senior, Annunciata Hall February 24, 2000 


For heaven's sake, pull Weston. Raze Rubens. Burn Bernini. Slash Stieglitz. Hide Avedon. Trash Titian. Oh, what the heck, let's destroy the entire history of art. I have plenty of time to zero in on offensive books. I'll be here a while. It hasn't taken long, though, for me to realize that I am spending my Saturday afternoon in a place which is ashamed of the nude. It is a place we all know quite well -our very own Notre Dame Bookstore. 
While the Hammes has graciously allowed space in which the art department can strut some of its stuff during Junior Parents Weekend, it has quite convincingly trumped itselfjust the same. While endeavoring to promote art, the bookstore has rather managed to discourage it, discount it, dis­avow it. Indeed, it has disallowed it. 
In response to a complaint lodged by one woman who was "offended" (to quote the bookstore staff), the bookstore removed from display a piece which (cover your eyes, juniors) imaged a (gasp!) naked woman. Well, prudishness may scare me and shame may sadden me, (I wish someone would please explain to me in what way the female form in all its glory is appalling), but ignorance, howev­er, absolutely terrifies me. Were the bookstore higher-ups to have learned anything from the New York "Sensations" exhibit, it should have been that one shouldn't make a mountain out of a molehill. But the mountain now looms just the same, ironi­cally, by the bookstore's very design. If my mother were to complain about offensive art history books, my father about gender studies texts and my brother about those pesky Torts cards, should the bookstore not thus accommodate every whine? 
Can I claim offense by that autographed print that the bookstore is charging a mere eight grand for (is such hype in and of itself not obscene?) and demand that it be removed from view? Should my wishes not, then, be catered to without delay? The bookstore staff, it claims (save a fow art-sensitive souls), has an "obligation to provide a comfortable environment" for its patrons. Sure, we can all respect that, but we're not talking about any war­ranty of habitability here. I am a patron, as is every student on this campus. Should not my demands be met, then, as those of the "offended" woman were? Good ol' Bookstore Phil told me that "If [the bookstore] were a museum," things would be different. Perhaps. 

In any case, I can find some comfort in the knowledge that the second piece by the same artist featured a woman who was just as naked as the first. And that one, by the way, was a crotch shot. Good thing Michelangelo didn't submit anything. 
Adrienne N. Werge Senior Off-Campus February 24, 2000 

w E 
ceneN D 
THE 

page 14 OBSERVER Friday, February 25, 2000 
Advice to my sister: Down boy 
OK, 
Here is what I think. It is wrong for you to show com­passion towards Ben when he thinks you are punishing him when you get smad (sad and mad at the same time ~ this word should be in the dictio­nary) and frustrated at your relation­
Scott Little 

ship with him. 
If you feel a certain way, and you express it, there is nothing wrong with that. Just understand the conse­
just a little 

quences of it, and if you don't want to 
feel a certain way, believe in yourself 
that you have control over your feel­
ings even though sometimes it is easier to just follow 
your feelings around. . 
Picture it like this: You are walkmg a dog. Your feel­ings are the dog, and you are you. The leash is your brain. And the dog's brain is your heart. 
Yon can let the dog go where it wants, and it will probably be awesome and fun, but more P?OP will get eaten and more dirt will be rolled around m. 
On the other hand, if you take the dog where you want, you can get more exercise and run in a straigh! line. And the dog learns you are in control, and he still likes you and licks your face and humps your leg, but every once in a while he'll try to jump on o~her dogs, but you just have to be strong and not let him go. 
You can still let your dog's brain lead you to cool places, but just be conscious of it, and be able to pull on the leash when you see a big steamy doo up ahead, or a big mean dog or a crazy bum with a shotgun. Yon will still love the dog and listen to it, just b~ the owner, be responsible for him and take care of him. 
Also, when you say that when you and Ben don't talk for a while, you feel isolated -that is because you spend so much time with him. Go to the bars or the bowling alleys or play some bingo at the local VFW, I know you're a senior, but meet some people you can talk to about stuff and see the fun things there are around you. 
You also said that you don't think about Ben as much, but then contradict yourself by writing a super-long e­mail to me, basically all about him: 
"However, I don't think about the situation too much right now. If I did, I could ma_ke myself_ crazy with it, and feel like I have to go talk to him about it. For now, I 11:1 just laying low and trusting that things will work out m the end." 
I would say that the less you think about it the better, but don't try to not think about it. The way to stop thinking about it is to stimulate your mind by doing things that you normally haven't been doing. Doing homework sucks because so often it's just boring, and your mind will travel to the Ben-thoughts. So take a few ego risks and have some fun in new ways. 
Also, you don't really point out good things about Ben. I mean, I know he is a great guy and you two have been through a lot, but you can so specifically point out the things that are wrong and bad. I don't know i~ this is working out. Realize that you are sort of physically addicted to him too, and that can heavily influence your decisions and even moods sometimes. Try to realize that and take control of it. 
Make sure you don't burden your friends by only talk­ing about your problems. You are a fun perso~, so t_alk about fun stuff that you have in common. At times hke this (the screwed up, emotional times), it is so easy to just get deeply involved in your own thoughts and prob­lems. The truth is not a lot of other people care about that stuff; at least, that is what rhave found. 
I know both of us kind of consider Mom a martyr, and I want to make sure that you don't let that happen to you, too. She is constantly sacrificing herself for the well-being of our family. And alth~ug~ we are both real­ly thankful for that, I can't help thmkmg that martyr­dom just isn't worth it unless a bunch of people ends up worshipping you. . 
So, don't begin your own martyrdom by keeprng your emotions to yourself and "bearing the pain" of the rela­tionship to keep your man happy. That's not fair, un~ess he is hiding a large group of people from you that thrnk 
you are awesome. . . 
Erin and I had lunch today. I was very entertammg. She is still very standoffish, but I grabbed her and hugged her too, and she seemed OK with that. I know I can't do it again though, for like a week. When I see her I just want to jump on her ... and lick her, and more. Woof. 
-Scott E. Boy 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

• 

Student / Union Board's annual Collegiate Jazz Festival is here again (but a little early) 
By JOHN HUSTON 
Scene Writer 

T;here will be one ,major d~fference 'between this year s Collegiate Jazz Festival to distinguish it from the 41 previous years -it's in February.Why? "Stepan leaks," festival director Paul Krivickas said. The festival is normally held in April, but "the last thing people want to do is be caught up in Stepan [in Aprill." he explained. "Hopefully we'll have good weather." Ten college jazz bands from across the coun­try, selected by a Student Union Board (SUB) committee, will perform Friday and Saturday. Last year, around 500 people attended the Friday night show, while Saturday's crowd was estimated at 300. The big draw for Friday night's performance, Krivickas said, is the Judge's Jam. Each year, a group of five celebri­ty judges from the jazz community come to the Stepan Center to decide the competition. It is Jazz Festival tradition that at 11:15 p.m., after the final band's performance Friday night, the judges take the stage to pe~form. . "They're not even gorng to have mus1~, they're just gonna get up there and do the1r thing," Krivickas said. "It's sort of like playing pickup basketball. If you're a good basketball player, the team comes together and knows what to do ... that's pretty much what happens here with jazz," said Father George Wiskirchen, director of the Notre Dame jazz bands. Wiskirchen has been involved, in one way or another, with the Jazz Festival for 41 of its 42 years. He is a crucial link between SUB and the celebrity judges. "He pretty much knows everybody as far as the jazz field goes," Krivickas said. His name helps seal the deal for many of the ja~z greats who are considering coming to the festival to be on the judges panel. "They say, 'Tell Father George I say hi."' "It's not all that hard to do. Jazz musicians are not quite as protected as are rock stars, where you really have to fight your way back­stage," Wiskirchen said. "With jazz you just walk backstage and say, 'Hey, my name is Joe."' Wiskirchen was the director of the Notre Dame High School jazz band in Ni!As, Ill., in 1960 when he and the band were first invited to the Collegiate Jazz Festival. He and his jazz bands returned the following 12 years in a row. In 1972, Wiskirchen came to the Notre Dame band department and became the official facul­ty advisor to the Jazz Festival. He has directed Notre Dame jazz bands at the festival every year since. "This will be my 41st appearance on the stage at the festival," he said. Wiskirchen also mentioned he is looking for­ward to this year's panel of judges: "It should be a very good grouping." . The panel this year includes saxophonist Jirrf'm.y Heath, bassist John Clayton, Jr., trum­peter Jimmy Owens, percussionist Ed 
Shaughnessy and pianist James Williams. . "These guys are pretty famous as far as Jazz players go," Krivickas said. . 
Jimmy Heath has worked with jazz giants hke Miles Davis in the past. He has also released 20 solo albums and he appears on nearly 150 oth­ers. 
John Clayton, Jr. received a Grammy nomi­
"Every festival has i
nation for his work with 
based on the groups 

Whitney Houston, and he has also worked with such based on the judges. I stars as Natalie Cole and 
it's hard to come up

Phil Collins. Wiskirchen said Clayton is "one of the top arrangers and com­Father George 
posers today." director, Notre D 
Jimmy Owens has 


played as a sideman with many major jazz artists inclu~ing Ch~rles Mingus, Herbie Mann, Duke Elhngton, Count Basic and Dizzy Gillespie. 
w E 
ceneN D 
~HE 

Friday, February 25, 2000 v~SERVER page 15 
42nd 1nnua1· co11eaia1e Jazz Festival • Schedule 01 Events • 

. 1111111 . 

l:38 10 11:15 P-11-EIBIIIIII Cllllt:IJrt lltlt:k, IIIIIBII t:tlllltlf Roosevelt UntvertllJ; western Mlclllgan Unlversltv, 
untversltv Of MICIIIIII Bid C8Dh'81 llcblaaa UatversllV 11:15 1111 llldOBI' Jam 
. 11111111 . 

2bl 3 p.m. t:ll4lt:, IBlld Bal/ding 
1:3118 11,15 11.m. ,,••,,,, lllllt:1111 Block, 1111111111 CtJlllllf Notre 01111, Mtllllln u111ersl1J, tawrence u1111rs111. 
UalversllJ el NOl'llt flerlda and UalversllJ ef Northern Iowa 

Ed Shaughnessy played drums in the Tonighl judges," Wiskirchen said. "It sounds strange but Show Band with Doc Severinson and has also it's hard to come up with a bad festival." played with Billie Holiday, Charlie Parker, Arlo "It's one of the most unique things that Notre Guthrie, Count Basje, Johnny Mathis and Dame does," he added. Charles Mingus. · Despite this unique quality, the jazz festival 
James Williams is "one of the top dozen or so has inspired ajealousy among other schools. 
piano players in jazz at the present time," "Other schools have copied what we do here," according to Wiskirchen. His Krivickas said. discography includes 20 solo How does Notre Dame's Jazz Festival compare
own personality 
albums. nationally?
at are here and 
The judges will provide a "It's the most respected," Krivickas respond­mnds strange, but free clinic on Saturday at 2 ed. 
p.m. at the band building. Wiskirchen said he expects to continue direct­
h a bad festival." 
The Jazz Festival has a his­ing Notre Dame jazz bands and helping the Jazz tory of attracting big-name Festival "as long as I'm able to." lsklrchen jazz artists to participate ·in But the festival is not in jeopardy of having too 
ne jazz band the event. including Herbie much of a jazz atmosphere; the official press Hancock, Stan Kenton, Quincy release that announced the festival noted ­Jones, Wynton Marsalis and "Stepan Center and the band building are Branford Marsalis. smoke-free facilities." "Every festival has its own personality based on the groups that are here and based on the 
SCENE ASKS 
Who is your favorite 
musician/perfarmer and why? 

"Eiffel 65 -'cause they've got a beat that my dance moves can flow to.,, 
Derek Peacock 
junior, Dillon Hall 

"Ella "Fitzgerald. I was always amazed at how she perfected her voice, her style and her presence on stage. A jazz goddess!" 
Katie Dorn senior, off campus 



"Billy Joel. He puts on the best concert I've ever seen. He plays the crowd like no other.,, 
Steve Fiamingo senior, off campus 

"Jimmy Buffet. Everyone is dressed up and friendly, so it's impossible not to have Jun.,, 
Carrie Sweeney freshman, Walsh Hall 



"Beck is energetic, hilarious, plays to the crowd and his music is great.,, 
John Lavan junior, O'Neill Hall 

"Belinda Carlisle. [She's] very down to earth, with meaningful lyrics.,, 
Aswini Ramkumar junior, Lyons Hall 

Photo poll by MARY CALASH/The Observer 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 25, 2000 
Bouts 
continued from page 28 
Not only does the club plan on raising more money than it ever has, it also plans on putting on the most competitive Bouts in the tournament's his­tory. 
Changing the bracket system and condensing weight classes, this year's matchups promise to be more competitive than in past tournament 
"By making 16-people brackets, we've increased the talent in each division," said Mellin. "With more competition, there will be better fights in each round." 
Training since the fall, the participants in the bouts will finally have the opportunity to show what they're made of in the preliminary round of tourna­ment tonight. beginning at 7 p.m. 
The 120-pound division is an open field -any boxer could rise to the top and claim the title. 
In Urn BO-pound division, Jason McMahon is the favored contender. The champion of the 125-pound division last year, McMahon is looking for his sec­ond Bengal Bouts title. 
The 140-pund division boasts a talented group of fighters. Kurt Wilson, Bill Uniowski. Jim Shackett and Anton Kemps received byes in the preliminaries and will not enter the ring until the quarterfinals on Sunday. 
Mellin is the top seed in the 150-pound division. Mellin has had a successful history in the Bengal Routs. Competing for the fourth year, the senior is looking for his first title. After advancing easily to the final round in his division last year, Mellin lost in a unanimous decision to Edward "El Papoose" Hernandez. 
The Universitv administration will not allow Hernandez to compete in this year's Bouts because of his previous boxing experience. Hernandez is a 
U.S.A boxing champion of Texas and is making a bid for the 2000 Olympic Games. 
In the 160-pound division, any of the contenders could take the top spot. Don Schaeffer earned the top-seed, but a talented field of 11 competitors are eager to unseed him 
The presence of Sean Nowack and Don Penn make the 165-pound division one of the most talent­ed brackets. Nowack earned the 163-pound division title last year with a unanimous decision in the finals over Travis Alexander. 
Don Penn. who registered the Bouts only knock­out decision year in the semifinals, only to lose in the championship round to Tom Biolchini is looking to avenge last year's second-place finish. 
In the 170-pound division, junior captain Brian Hobbins is the boxer to beat. Hobbins failed to make it to the finals last year and will have to fend off a tough group of fighters to earn the title this year. 
Biolchini, a two-time defending champion earned the top bill in the 175-pound division. With an expe­rienced and talented field, the 175-pound division promises to be the most competitive. 
Biolchini will have to fend off attempts by Tom Dietrich. Steve Pfeiffer, Chris Viasnoris and William Pepek on his quest for the title. 
The heavy weights won't have to worry about fending off and 185-pound defending champion Mike Romanchek. The senior captain and four-year boxer will sit out because of a shoulder injury. 
In the 180-pound division, Joey Leniski heads a competitive bracket of 10 competitors, while Mike Hammes. who lost in the finals last year leads the pack in the 190-pound division. 
In the 200-plus division, junior captain Peter Ryan is the top-seed. Ryan won a split decision over Alex Kant last year and looks to hold on to his title. 
The quarterfinal round of the Bouts takes place tonight and winners will advance to the quarterfinal round on Sunday. 

120 LB. Weight Division 

Reggie "The Ugfy Stick" Robles(B) vs. Michael "Mr. Bubbles" Dixey(G) Dan "San" Buonadossa(B) vs. Shawn "Knockout the Old and Bring in the" Newberg(G) James "Pirahna" Fishbume(B) vs. bye 130 LB. Weight Division 
John "I am the Bombay Bee" Kakkanathu(B) vs. Matthew "The Don" Fumigalli(G) 
• • • • Daniel "Too Short" Gallegos(B) vs. Michael Kontz(G)140 LB. Weight D1v1s1on Jason "The Sweet Sensation" McMahon(B) vs. bye Josh Coleman(B) vs. Wade Braunecker(G) Camilo "Rollin"' Rueda(G) vs. bye Tucker "The Boston Massacre" McGree(B} vs. Dominic "Little Italy" Angiollo(G) Scott "The Colonel" Potter(B) vs. Michael "The Motor City Madman" Waldo(G) Joseph "Got Mad Hits Like I was Rod Carew" Zilligan(B) vs. David "My Nickname Was Excised" Frick(G) Kurt Wilson(B) vs. bye William "The Polish Hammer" Uniowski(G) vs. bye Jim "The Unloader" Shacklett(B) vs. bye An "Ton of Bricks Poundin' Down On Yo Face" Kemps(G) vs. bye 150 LB. Weight Division 
Brock "Landers" Heckmann(B) vs. "Bike" Mike McDonald(G) Kevin "Layin' The Smack Down" Downs(B) vs. Joe "Mama Can't Help You Now" Masley(G) John Sarson(B) vs. Rob "The Talented Mr." McColgan(G) Joseph "What's Up Ladies!" Biggs(B) vs. Pat "PBODY" Broderick(G) 
"Cool Hand" Luke Stanton(B) vs. bye155 LB. Weight Division . Dennis "The Natural Disaster" Abdelnour(G) vs. bye Paul "He-Man" Mehan(B) vs. Kenneth "Mack Attack" Papas(G) J.R. "Maddog" Mellin(B) vs. bye Robert 'The Skinny Ginnea" Vuolo(B) vs. Robert Berti(G) Tom "T.K." Owens(G) vs. bye Christopher "Redhead Thunder" Kusek(B) vs. Thomas "The Tank Engine" Dietz(G) Billy "Sweet Pea" McMurtrie(B) vs. Clay "Mouth of the South" Cosse(G) Travis "The Only Time I Get 'Hit On' Is In The Ring" Alexander(B) vs. bye Donald "The Diaper Daddy" Doan(G) vs. bye Tom "The Pretender" Pien;e(B) vs. bye Jeff "The Pittsburgh Kid" Dobosh(G) vs. bye 160 LB. Weight Division 
Brandon "Oh No You Didn't" Zick(B) vs. P.J. "Downtown" DuWors(G) Michael "Sugar Kane Jr." Kane(B) vs. Brandon "The Beefcake" Landas(G) Chris "My Nickname Was Excised" Matassa(B) vs. Christopher "Chaps" Pettit(G) "Massive" Dan Masse(B) vs. Matt "All You Can Eat" McCullough(G) "Dangerous" Dan Schaeffer(B) vs. bye 
Joseph "The Polygamist" Smith(G) vs. bye165 LB. Weight Division John "Judas" Berry(B) vs. bye Thomas "The Tenninator" Cullen(B) vs. Benjamin Low(G) J.P. "Fabulous Thunderlips" Camardo(G) vs. bye Jim "Joey Joe Jr Shah-a-do" Quallers(B) vs. Matthew "The Jedi" Gentile(G) "Gentile" John Donnelly(B) vs. Daniel "The Danimal" Probst(G) Julian "Tubthumping" Bryant(B) vs. Holt "The Fightin' Reinhold" Zeidler(G) Sean "The Erie Kid" Nowak(B) vs. bye Tim "Rock" O'Rourke(G) vs. bye Joe "The Polish Tank" Czemiawski(B) vs. bye 170 LB. Weight Division Don "The Destroyer" Penn(G) vs. bye Peter Baggenstos(B) vs. Kyle "The Private" Kerrigan(G) 
Ben "The Mail Must Get Through" Dillon(B) vs. John "Pride of the Parish" Murphy(G) John "Missile" Lynk(B) vs. Tommy "Where's Your Mommy" Marlow(G) Ryan "The Rhino" Hemandez(B) vs. Bill "The Bleeder" Ponko(G) Brian "Hoppe" Hobbins(B) vs. bye Eric "My Nickname Was Excised" Hovan(G) vs. bye Rob "The Golden Schlager" Joyce(B) vs. bye
175 LB. Weight Division Joe "Layth Down The Smacketh" Kippels(G) vs. bye Paul "Beast of the East" Riley(B) vs. Casey "The Cactus" Corcoran(G) Kurt "The Captain" Kurple(B) vs. Lou "Night Train" Perry(G) Chris "The Bruisin' Lugan" Viasnoras(B) vs. Tom "How Ya Like Me Now?" Dietrich(G) Steve "The Angry Pirate" Pfeiffer(B) vs. William "My Right is Bigger Than My Left" Pepek(G) Tom "The Tulsa Bomber" Biolchini(B) vs. bye 180 LB Weight Division Josh "The Sandman" Thompson(G) vs. bye Matt Wohlberg(B) vs. I{eith Amold(G) 
Jeff Welsh(B) vs. Chris "Captain Chaos" Prill(G) Kyle "Smokin' Bluegrass" Smith(B) vs. Doug "Sauce Doggy Dog" Bartels(G) 
Mark Criniti(B) vs. Bobby "I'll Make You Pay Castro" Kennedy(G) 190 LB. Weight Division Joey "Soda Pop" Leniski(B) vs. bye Patrick "The Hilman" Otlewski(B) vs. Kevin "Hardcore" Brandi(G) Tom "The Hitter" DeSplinter(G) vs. bye Chris "The Sweet Scientist" Pearsall(B) vs. Tom "The Mad Mick" Herrity(G) Gavin "The Morning Glory" Hagens(B) vs. Jason "It's Not Easy Being J Rod" Rodriguez(G) Mike" Honey" Hammes(B) vs. bye 200 LB. Weight Division 
Dustin "My Nickname Was Excised" Ferrel(B) vs. Chris "Eat, Drink and 'Be" Murray(G) Steve "Lefty Guns" Practico(B) vs. Matt "The Southern Dandy" Dixon(G) Greg "NYTOL" Joseph(B) vs. Joe "It'll Take You A Month To" Healy(G) Dan "Let Me" Adam(B) vs. Chris "The Perpetrator" Craylor(G) Peter "Beat The Rap" Ryan(B) vs. bye Jonathon "BOP" Pentzien(G) vs. bye B =Blue Trunks G =Gold Trunks JOSE CUELLAR/The Observer 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
1 

...  BUILD CONDOS, APARTMENTS OR OFFICES. Land lor lease. 112  NEW 4-BDRM. HOUSE NORTH OF CAMPUS. $350/PERSON.  Quality ranch, 2107 Rockne Dr.,  
NOTICES  acre on Ivy Road across from Eck Baseball Stadium. Write: LANO  WANTED  FOR RENT  MIN. 3 PEOPLE  JOHN 273-3828.  1639 sq. ft., 3 bdrm, basement, loads of storage.  
704 PEASHWAY SOUTH BEND.  1-bdrm Apt, walk in closet. parking  2-car garage. $113k.  
NORTH DINING HALL  IN46617  ASPIRING WRITERS!  ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE  space. In nice residential area on a  288-88S4.  
STUDENT WORKERS  www.maincampus.com  AND CLOSE http://mmmrentals.  lake, 10 min drive from NO.  
ARE THE GREATEST! THANK YOU FOR ALL  LOST & FOUND  seeks students for stories ranging from Politics/Sex/  homepage. com/ email:mmm· rentals@aol.com 232-2595  $400/mo. $250 dep. Postgrad stu­dent or faculty only. No smoking, no alcohol, no party. Call 277-0189  PERSONAL  
YOUR EFFORTS AND  Culture/Opinions  Available '00-01. 4-6 Student  
TEAMWORK  Help!  Silver and blue Guess watch  $25 per story!  Rental House ...2 112 baths: lots of  B&B for ND grad & Football  www.thecommentator.com  
OVER JPW WEEKEND.  lost somewhere between  Debartolo  Email us at:  space;  Parking Lot and Laundry...  3 miles. 4 rooms.287-4545  
NDH STAFF  (rooms 155 or 205)  earn@maincampus.com  Dave 291 ·2209  THE COPY SHOP  
and the SOH on Friday, February  LaFortune Student Center  
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center  18. I I found please call  LACROSSE OFFICIALS Officials needed for Men's  B'NB REGISTRY 219-291-7153  FOR SALE  High-Speed Copying Color Copying  
Store Hours Mon-Thur 7:30am­ Julie at 2374  lnterhall Lacrosse. This is a  Resumes  
Mid Fri: 7:30am•7:00pm  great way to get outside, earn  EXCELLENT 5 BEDROOM HOUSE  Phone Card 886 mins. $20 258·  Business Cards  
Sat Noon-6:00pm  good money, & have fun!  GOOD AREA NORTH 2773097  4805 or 243-9361  Fax Service  
Sun: Noon-Mid Free Pick-Up & Delivery! Call 631-COPY We're open late so your order will be done on time!  silver Yashica camera on 2/18 near JACC-had JPW pies .................. reward*••·•"'•••••• CALL 634-3040.  Attend the mandatory officials meeting on Wed. 3/1 @ 6pm in Rolf's Sports Rec. Center or contact Brandon Leimbach @631-3536  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR GOOD AREA NORTH 2773097  Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. New, never used, still in plastic. $235 219-862-2082  Desktop Publishing & a whole lot more! Prompt Pick-Up & Delivery Call 631-COPY  

Friday, February 25, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
NAACP pveseV\ts MomeV\ts iV\ Ouv t-listovy CelebvatiV\9 Black t-listovy MoV\th 
To kli\ovv wheJt""e we're 9oiV\9 we mt1s+ klt\oW wkere we've beelt\, 
Mae C. Jemison: Astronaut & Physician 
Mae C. Jemison was born the youngest of three children of Charlie and Dorthy Jemison, a maintenance worker and schoolteacher. Raised in Chicago, IL, she graduated from Morgan Park High School in 1973. She earned a Bachelor of Science degree in Chemical Engineering from Stanford University in 1977, while also fulfilling the requirements for a Bachelor of Arts in African-American Studies . She attended medical school and received a Doctor of Medicine degree from Cornell University in 1981. 
Dr. Jemison successfully completed her astronaut training in August 1988, becoming the fifth black astronaut and the first black female astronaut in NASA history. In 1992, SPACELAB J was a suc­cessful joint U.S. and Japanese science mission, making Mae Jemison the first black woman in space. 
Lewis Howard Latimer; Inventor & Engineer (f"~:\ 
Lewis Howard Latimer was born in Chelsea, Massachusetts on September 4, 1848. He learned mechanical drawing in the patent attorney office of Crosby and Gould, Boston, Massachusetts. He invented a toilet system for railroad cars in 1873, referred to as the water closet for railroad cars. He also invented an electric lamp with an inexpensive carbon filament and a threaded wooden socket tor light bulbs. He supervised the installation of carbon filament electric lighting in New York City, Philadelphia, Montreal, and London. He was responsible for preparing the mechanical draw­ings for Alexander Graham Bell's patent application for his telephone design. Lewis Latimer had the distinction of being the only African American member of the Edison Pioneers, a member of Thomas Edison's engineering division of the Edison Company 




Madame C.J. Walker: Inventor & Business Woman 
•

In 1905 Sarah Breedlove developed a conditioning treatment for straightening hair. Starting with door-to-door sales of her cosmetics, Madame C.J. Walker amassed a fortune. In 1910, she built a factory in Indianapolis to manufacture her line of cosmetics. Before her death in 1919 she was a millionaire, one of the most successful business executives in the early half of the twentieth century. 
She was the first American women of any race or rank to become a millionaire through her own efforts. Sarah Breedlove was born in 1867 to Minerva and Owen Breedlove on the shores of the Mississippi River in northeast Louisiana. 
All of the previous ads this week and this full page ad are presented to you by the NAACP and Student Government. 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 25, 2000 
MEN'S LACROSSE 

Explosive offense leads Irish against Nittany Lions 
between them. The coaching
By STEVE KEPPEL 

staff said that the pair have Spons W rirer 
improved greatly in the off-sea­son and will be a big part of the 

After weeks of practice and offense. preparation, the men's lacrosse "They [Ulrich and Glatzel] are team will take on the Nittanv playing good lacrosse right Lions of Penn State at home now," says Corrigan. "They arc Sunday. smarter, and both of them 
A team that is usuallv worked hard to be a little bit marked by its tough defensive better physically and will ho play. Notre Dame will have a able to take more of a pound­much mon~ experienced and ing and be a little more forceful 
explosive offense  with  their  
to lead them this year. Despite the loss of second  "The guys who are step­ping in on defense are  moves there." The  out mid­ 
all-time leading  athletic. We may be a bit  field  of the  
goal scorer Chris Dusseau, the Irish attack will  faster down there. which should help us."  Irish, like the offense, is full of experi­ 
have  many  ence and tal­ 
offens.ive weapons that  Kevin Corrigan men's lacrosse coach  ent. Juniors Steve Bishko  

should help them make their way back to the NCAA Tournament. 
"We got a couple of guys ­John Harvev anrl Owen Asplundh -¼~ho are going to stop into Chris' role," said head coach Kevin Corrigan. "Chris had one role that he did extremely well; he was a scorer and a finisher. I think they can replace his [Dusseau's] points and maybe get a few more assists out of the position as well," said Corrigan. 
Returning from last year's attack will be two of the nation's top players, juniors David Ulrich and Tom Glatzel. Last season they had 89 points 
and Todd 
Ulrich, who were among last s~ason's scor­ing leaders, will anchor the midfield once again. The well­balanced midfield may also sec the likes of exciting freshman John Souch, who will make his collegiate debut Sunday. 
It seems that the Irish have an abundance of experience everywhere except for the defense. The usually solid defense has lost three of their four starters to graduation. The newcomers will need to step up their play for the Irish to be successful. 
"The guys who are stepping in on defense are athletic. We may be a bit faster down there, which should help us," said Corrigan. "If these guys prove that we can play smart and consistent, I think we will have a better defense than even last years." 

The young defense should benefit from the experience of second year goalkeeper Kirk Howell, who had a solid year in front of the net last season. Howell stepped in and showed great poise and surprised many by his performance under pres­sure. Howell will switch rules this season to a defensive leader. 
"Kirk is more in command of the defense and needs t.o become more of a lield general now than he was last year," Corrigan said. 
If the defense holds up, the lri.sh should be in a good posi­tion come Sunday. Despite the athletic ability and speed or Penn State, Corrigan said that if they stick to their game, they will play them tough. 
"Our plan is to do things that we do well. We waut to be con­sistent," Corrigan said. "We don't want to get into a race­horse game. Penn State is always athletic, and we need to be smart about what we are doing on both offense and defense." 
The Nittany Lions came away with a 13-8 victory when the two teams battled last year. This year's squad is a different team and is looking to come out strong and start the season ,vi.th a victory. 
Sun 2.20 Duke Durham, n.c. 11 a.m. 
Sun 2.27 Penn State South Bend, Ind. 1p.m.
Sat 3.4 Pennsyluanla Philadelphia 1p.m. 

Sat 3.11 Oenuer moo 3.13 ftir Force Sat 3.18 LoyolaSun 3.26 Hofstra 
Sat 4.1 Ohio State Sat 4.8 Butler 
Sat 4.15 HrmyWed 4.19 Uillanoua Sat 4.22 fairfield Sun 4.30 Haruard 
Denuer 1p.m.Colorado Springs, Colo. 3p.m.South Bend, Ind. 1p.m.South Bend, Ind. 1p.m.South Rend, Ind. 3p.m.Indianapolis 2p.m.West Point, n.Y. 1p.m.South Bend, Ind. 3p.m.South Bend, Ind. 2p.m.Cambridge, mass. 1p.m. 
JOSE CUELLARffhe Observer 


INTERESTED IN STUDENT GOVERNMENT? 
HeeoIDe the next A_ssistant 8t-..dent Dody Treas-..rer 
-Great resume builder -Meet new people -Work with the "Shirt Project" -Learn about the Student Business Board 
Applications for the Assistant Student Body Treasurer position are available outside the Treasurer's Office in 314 LaFortune. 
Friday, February 25, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NBA 
Rodman ejected again as Jazz top Mavericks 
Associa1cJ Press 
UALlAS 

Dennis Bodman and Karl Malone revived their basketball and wrestling rivalry, and Bryon llussell scored 25 points to help the Utah Jazz hold off thr Dallas Mavericks 92-85 Thursday night. 
Hodman was ejected for the second time in his five games with the Mavericks. His second technical camP with 4:02 left for arguing a foul called when Malone tripped over him while running up the court. A similar incident in the third quarter drew a double foul. 
Hudman had 12 rebounds, his fewest as a Maverick, and scored one point on a free throw with his eyes closed. He was laughing so hard aftArward that when he tried it again, the shut ticked the front of the net, nar­rowly avoiding an air ball. 
Rodman, who got his first technical moaning about an ille­gal defr,nse in Urn third quarter, continued griping for several minutes after his ejection. Once teammates and coaches con­vinced him to leave, his tradi­tional jersey-toss into the stands triggered a courtside fight between the team doctor and a fan. 
This was his second ejection in a row at homA. llis slow exit last time got him suspended for a game and thb one could, too. 
Utah had broken a tie to go ahead 77-72 when Hodman was tossed. The Jazz stretched the lead to 82-72 and the Mavericks never got closer than five after that. 
This was the 12th straight time Utah has beaten Dallas. 
The Mavericks' rallies were usually paced by res0rvcs Cedric Ceballos and Erick Strickland. Ceballos had 26 points and Strickland 16. Dallas starters scored just 32 points, led by Michael Finley's 14. 
Malone, who wore his typical game-face scowl all night, fin­ished with 18 points, 10 rebounds and six assists. 
Jeff Hornacek scored 14 and 
had a season-high seven 
rebounds. Greg Ostertag, a 
Dallas-an~a native, had a sea­
son-best six blocks. 
Pacers 100, Bulls 83 
Jalen Ros11 had 22 points and the Indiana Pacers overcame a season-high 38 points from rookie Elton Brand to defeat the Chicago Bulls for their 21st straight home victory. 
Six Indiana players scored in double figures as Indiana used its balance and dApth to improve the league's best home record to 24-2. 
Reserves Austin Crosherc and Derrick McKcy made crucial contributions, Croshcre with 17 points and eight rebounds while McKey had a season-high 14 points while malching his sea­son-high of 10 rebounds. 
There were six lead changes and two ties in the third quarter before two free throws by Rose put the Pacers ahead to stay, 67­65 with 1:23 remaining. A layup by McKey off a slick pass by Rose followed by two free throws by McKey to send the Pacers into the fourth period leading 71-65. 
Chicago trailed 81-75 follow­ing a three-point play by Brand, but Indiana responded with an 9-0 run beginning with a jumper by Rose and ending with his 3­pointer. 

The only other Chicago player in double figures was John Starks with 11 points. 
Brand hit a season-high 18 field goals on 23 shots, but his teammates were only 19-of-52. 
McKey and Croshere helped lndiana post a 42-34 rebounding advantage. 
The Bulls, last in the league in field goal accuracy, shot 70 per­cent in the first quarter (l4-of­
20) to lead 30-22. Chicago took its biggest lead on the game at 33-22 when Fred Hoiberg, acti­vated before the game, hit a 3­pointer to open the second peri­od. 
The Bulls lost the lead while missing 11 consecutive shots from the field and going more than five minutes without a field goal in the second period. The Bulls shot 22 percent (5-of-23) in the quarter and Indiana used a 16-3 run to lead 45-44 at half­time. 
Spurs 72, Hornets 70 
Terrv Porter's 22-footer with three:tenths of a second left 
,.----~.::::.~:_---------------------------------helped the San Antonio Spurs 

College of Arts and Letters University of Notre Dame 
Invites Nominations for the Father Sheedy Award 
Each year, the Sheedy Award,, named for a former dean of the College of Arts and Letters,, honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. 
Both students and faculty are invited to submit nominations for this year's ~w8:r:3-. Please send your letter indicating what is 
special or s1gn1ficant about this instructor to: 
Dian Murray, Associate Dean 101 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Wednesday,, March Pt, 2000 
Sheedy Award 

Men'sand\VODM!n's 
~ . .__,_•
~..,umn,..g 
Shamrock Classic 
Saturday and Sunday 11am/7pm Rolfs Aquatic Center 
make up for Tim Duncan's struggles in a 72-70 victory over the Charlotte Hornets on Thursday night. 
Charlotte rallied from 10 points down to tie it on a 3­
pointer by David Wesley with 21 seconds left. Porter was guarded closely by Wesley when he hit the winner from the left wing. It was the Spurs' lone field goal in the final six minutes. 
The Hornets couldn't get off a shot before the final buzzer. 
Duncan, listed as questionable with a lower abdominal strain, started his 186th consecutive game and played 39 minutes, but he was far from his usual dominating inside presence. 
He missed nine consecutive field-goal attempts in the first half on the way to a 6-for-23 outing. Duncan still wound up with 15 points and 12 rebounds, and David Robinson had 16 points and 10 rebounds as the Spurs won for the first time in six road games this season against Central Division teams. 
Charlotte's Derrick Coleman had 19 points and a season-high 20 rebounds, and Wesley had a pair of stPals and a 3-pointer in the final minute tu fuel the Hornets' final rally. 
San Antonio kicked off a three-game road trip by harass­ing the Hornets into 36 percent shooting. 
San Antonio never trailed in the second half and pushed its lead as high as 69-59 on Robinson's 9-foot jumper in the lane with 6:01 remaining. 
But the Spurs missed their 

next six field goal attempts and iljl]Mlili¦lflll~•••~.:r.i,• turned it over twice, clearing the 
!I' way for a Charlotte rally. Wesley's steal set up a layup by Coleman that cut the Hornets' deficit to 70-67 with 44 seconds left. Wesley stripped the ball from Avery Johnson with 32 seconds to go, leading to the tying bas­ket. San Antonio, held to 10 points in the first quarter on 22 per­cent shooting, bounced back in the second by holding Charlotte to 29 percent shooting. Samaki Walker had eight points in the quarter to help the Spurs build a 38-32 lead after the Hornets' lowest-scoring half of the sea-
MEN'S LACROSSE vs. #13 Penn State 
Sunday 1:00pm Moose Krause Stadium 
Men's Tennis 
vs. Purdue 
Saturday 12:00pm Eck Tennis Pavilion 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 25, 2000 
PGA 

Woods, Garcia head to third round of Match Play 
the 18th and the Swede w011 it Still, three of the top four with a 20-foot birdie putt on were alive, and the tourna­the first extra hole. ment was shaping up to he 
Bob Estes. clinging to a 1-up everything it wasn't a year lead against fifth-seeded Ernie ago when nine of the top 10 Els, hit into the bunker on No. seeds were gone after the sec­18 and missed his 12-foot par ond day. putt. only to watch the Rig Second-s1rnded Oavirl Duval Easy miss a 4-foot par putt. never .trailed in his 2 and 1 
The  show- victory  over  
stopptir belonged to Thomas Bjorn of Denmark,  "It's just like playing an NC4A tournament. You want to keep going. keep  Tim Herron, and No. 4 Davis Love III overcame  
who eliminated No. 3 seed  advancing."  birdies on the first two  
C o I i n Montgomerie  Tiger Woods  holes by Jeff Sluman for a  
with  a  par on  pro golfer  3 and 2 vic­ 
the fifth  extra  tory.  
hole.  It was clear  

Bjorn, who never trailed, Woods might be in for a fight 
blew a 2-foot par putt on the early on when his tee shot on 17th hole and then had to the second holfl went left, hit a make a 20-footer for par on cart path and went out of the 18lh just to send the bounds. Only two of the first match to extra holes. seven holes were halved, and Montgomerie, who made a Woods was scrambling. terrific save from mangled He took control on the par-3 rough on the first extra hole, sflventh ho]fl, whkh showed lipped out a 3-footer on the how quickly the sure loss of a third that would have ended hole can turn into a momen­the match. tum builder. 
FEBRUARY EVENTS! 
Saturday, February 26 
1:30 pm Acclaimed children's author Patricia Polacco will discuss and sign her books. Ms. Polacco has written over 20 books for children, including The Keeping Quilt, which celebrates its 10th year in 2000. One of her most popu­lar titles is Thank You, Mr. Falker, her person­al thanks to a teacher who changed her life. We feel most fortunate to enjoy a visit by this esteemed author. 
Monday, February 28 
3:30 pm 
Celebrate Black History Month with author, screenwriter Van Whitfield. His first book was born after a bad date. He was so frustrated and went home and put it on paper. That book, Beeperless Remote, earned six Ben Franklin Award nominations, including Best Author and Best New Voice in Books. Like his first, Whitfield's second novel, Somethings Wrong With Your Scale!, exercises his comedic flair in a universal tale about two people who meet and faH in love at a weight loss center. Whitfield recently won the Hollywnod Film Festival Award for Best New Screenplay for his adaptation of Somethings Wrong With Your Scale! He also writes for the hit sitcom Grown Ups. We are pleased ro have Van Whitfield speak about and sign copies of his hysterically funny new book. 
HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 

6 feet and made the putt, while Goosen ran his birdie putt 2 feet by and missed it coming back. 
But while W o o d s straightened 
out his swing, Goosen finally nursed in an important putt from 12 feet on No. l6 that squared the match. 
From 178 yards out on the 569-yard hole, Goosen laced his iron into 4 feet to put the pressure on Woods. He answered the challenge, then used his length -45 yards longer on the 18th for a short­er iron he could control -to gain the advantage on the final hole. 
Woods moves on to play Shigeki Maruyama, who 
PA1'1tlCIA POLACCO 
~:.F~,i~~ L~t, 
"J don't believe {Sergio Garcia's} won over here. Sergio's a great player. but he's not Tiger." 
David Duval pro golfer 
The most intriguing match could be Duval against Garcia. Duval was slightly put off over all the hype bestowed on Garcia af'ter his gallant run at Medinah. 
"I don't hclieve hR's won over here," Duval said earlier this year. "Sergio is a great player, but he's not Tiger. I don't derive any motivation from Sergio." 
Maybe not. But Duval and 15 others will be motivated by one thing Friday -getting to the quarterfinals. 
turning into a world event. Only nine of the final 16 are Americans, and four of them will go head-to­head in the third round. 

-
Associated Press 

CARLSBAD, Calif. 
A major scare for Tiger Woods. A walk in the park for Sergio Garcia. Despite the dif­ferences in their play, they accomplished the same thing Thursday in the Match Play Championship. 
They won. 
"It's just like playing an NCAA tourna­m e n t , " Woods said. "You want to keep going, keep advanc­


Woods
ing. And I'm on to the third round now." 
That he is, along with Garcia and 14 others who head into Friday as the stakes get high­er each day in the $5 million World Golf Championship event worth $1 million to the winner. 
Pushed to thfl extremfl by Reticf Goosen. Woods answered his first challenge with a 9-iron from 116 yards into 2 feet on the 17th hole to keep the match even, then grabbed a 1-up victory when the South African three-putted from 50 feet on the 18th. 
Garcia. who staged a thrilling duel with Woods in the PGA Championship at Medinah. birdied four straight holes for a 7 and 6 victory over Canadian Mike Weir. the biggest rout in the two-year history of the event. 
Still. a sunny day that helped dry the La Costa Resort course had its share of thrillers. 
Jesper Parnevik was in deep trouble until Joe Ozaki missed a 2-foot par putt on the 17th hole, both made tough pars on 

Daytona.Beach Resort 
nt 1,11mm emu 

hkct tl...tlMI .t$AnOO 
J311MO-.i,IG1'111 

U7 == 
800-654-6216 
M 11 •• www.•yloabtacl.norlcor 
Of www.dl.co.Mwe&lma 
All Shows Before 6 PM S4.00 $4.00 StudentvChildren/Scnior~ $6.50 Adult 

Stereo Surround Sound in all Theatres 
American Be ¦llty R 
1'.30 4'.15 7:10 9;50 
Boiler Room A 
2:10 4:45 7:25 10:05 

Hanging Up PG1' ss 
1;00 3:10 5:20 7:40 10:00 
Next Friday R 
9:30 

Pitch Bl111c:k A ss 
2:05 4 :30 7:05 9:50 
Relnd~r Game:! R 
12:50 3:15 5:35 8:00 10:25 
Scream 3 R 
2:20 5:00 7:50 9:55 10:25 
SnowD11y PG 
i :10 3"25 5·40 7;55 10:10 Stuart Little PG 2:30 5:00 7:35 
Th11 Beach R 2:0() 4.4(l 7;35 10~15 The Green Mile R 
3:45 7:30 
The Hurricane R 
12:45 3:55 7:00 10·10 
The Tigger Movie G 

12:55 2:50 4:45 7.20 ihe Whole Nlne Yards R ss 12'45 3:05 5:30 7:55 10,20 
Wonder Boys A ss 
1:25 4:00 7:15 9:55 

lvll,111 UIM> QNll fli'Jr ~A( AtvAII(! m:«a ;.Ill.! ,J.WIW a.::t!Sllil! . l!O ~~ • ijC 11)~','li, 

Woods nailed his approach over the green into the bunker "f hit it THAT far?" he said to h.imself in disbelief -as Goosen hit his 10 feet below the hole. Woods blasted out to 
knocked out Justin Leonard in the second round for the sec­ond straight year. 
The Match Play Championship, sponsored by Arthur Andersen, is truly 

Friday, February 25, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
KELLOGG 
INSTITUTE 
Logo Contest s2..····.··SO: Prize
. " ' ,·, .., 
Design a logo, symbol or icon for the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies. We invite submissions for a design suitable for use in both electronic and print media. Designs may be created in the colors and medium of the artist's choice but should maintain readability when reduced to approximate­ly a 3"x3" area and should allow a version that could be used as a thumbnail icon. You can consult the Institute web page at www.nd.edu/ ~kellogg for more information about the Institute and can request copies of our brochure and newsletter from Martha Sue Abbott (Abbott.2@nd.edu). 
The winning entry will receive a $250 prize. The contest is open to all students, faculty, and staff of the Notre Dame community. 
Entries should be submitted to Judy Bartlett at the Kellogg Institute, 216 Hesburgh Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556-5677. With your artwork, please include your name, campus address and telephone number, as well as your email address. The deadline for submissions is Monday, March 24, 2000. 
A Kellogg committee will review all entries. Upon selection of the winning entry, the artist will be notified and presented with the prize. 

NEED CASH? 
NEW DONORS EARN $20 TODAY 
MENTION THIS AD FOR A $5.00 BONUS 
Up to $145.00 a month in 2-4 hours a week 

SERA CARE PLASMA 
234-6010 515 LINCOLNWAYWEST 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Selig to decide Stra~berry's future 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. 
Darryl Strawberry trotted into a corner beneath the stands, slipped into the club­house and out of Legends Field. If or when he returns is not up to him or the New York Yankees. 
Baseball ordered the 37­year-old outfielder to leave spring training because of a positive cocaine test. and com­missioner Bud Selig will decid11 what happens next. 
There was a strong sign Wednesday that Strawberry could be suspended for the sea­son. At his 
age. some 
"J hope it's not the endfor
believe that from a no­w o u 1 d him because I don't know r.ontest plea 
amount to a what that would mean ... I to charges 
lifetime of cocaine
don't know what the answer
ban. possession 
"I hope is. I don't know ifthis thing and solicit­it's not the ing a pros­
is going to go away. " 
end for him titute in because I Tampa last don't know Darryl Strawberry spring. what that Yankees' outfielder 
" I • m year suspension was likely, a high-ranking baseball official, speaking on the. condition he not be identified, said: "That's a good guess." 
Strawberry said he showed up for the first full-squad work­out of the year with the two­time defending World Series champions to prove that he's not "running and hiding." 
"You guys know I've always been forward," Strawberry said. "I came here today b11cause this is where I feel I want to be. I really can't com­ment on anything right now." 
Strawberry. who turns 38 next month, tested positive for cocaine Jan. 19, a violation of probation stemming 

w o u I d mean," Yankees manager Joe Torre said. 
"The only thing I'd say to the commissioner is I'm glad I'm not you. I don't know what the answer is. I don't know if this thing is going to go away.~ 
The Yankees were taking batting practice when Strawberry was told to go to the clubhouse. where general manager Brian Cashman relayed the message that he was to leave camp until Selig acts. 
"We were trying to do it with as little fanfare as possible," Torre said. 
The twice-suspended Straw­berry met with Selig in Mil~aukee on Tuesday, a day after revealing details about the drug relapse to Yankees owner George Steinbrenner. 
The commissioner originally was expected to decide Strawberry's fate by today, but Selig spokesman Rich Levin said no decision would be made until Friday at the earliest. 
Asked Wednesday if a one-
going to 
stand by him. I'm going to try to see that he rights his life. If it's in base­ball, fine. If it's outside base­ball, fine," Stein-brenner said. "It isn't like George has given· him enough chances. now dump him. Dump him ... I don't think so." 
Torre said Strawberry called him shortly before his arrival at Legends Field and said he wanted to work out with the team. Because the Yankees had not received any direction on the matter from baseball. the manager said OK. 
Strawberry made a brief statement to the media before changing into his uniform and accepting Torre's offer to address his teammates before the workout. 
"He didn't want to hide. I think that's the first thing he said to me," Torre said. "Obviously, he wouldn't have been here if that was the case. Right or wrong, we assumed since we didn't hear anything to the contrary that he was going to be able to work out." 

THE NOTRE DAME CENTER 
for 

ETHICS AND CULTURE 


cordially invites the faculty, administration, and staff to a reception cele1rating the inauguration of the Center. Please join us on the tenth floor of Flanner Hall Monday, February 28th 
4:30-6:30 P.M. 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 25, 2000 
SOFTBALL 
Surging team travels to Arkansas for tournament 
second-place finish in the l-6 owirall. Virginia and Notrn "WA have six games, which is Also. junior Melanie Alkire By RACHEL PROTZMAN University of Nevada's Las Dame played three common going to be pretty strenuous for looks to continue her solid Spom Writer Vegas tournament, as they opponents in Las Vegas, with us," said head coach Liz Miller, offensive play. 
defoated Portland State ( 5-3), the Irish "but we need The Irish also will look for Matching its best start in five Soulhern lJtah (8-0), UC Santa finishing 3-"We have six games, which is to get these strong freshmen performances Barbara (3-0) and Utah (2-1), 0 against games in. from Andrea Loman, Alexis
years with a 4-1 record, Notre 
going to be pretty strenuous 
falling only to Oregon (11-3). Portland Missouri and Madrid and Andria Bledsoe.
Dame softball looks to improve Notre Dame kicks off the State, Utah .for us, but we need to get Arkansas look Loman scored a game-winning
its record this weekend as it 
weekend with a double-header and UCSB, to be very RHI against UCSB while Bledsoe
travels to Arkansas to compete these games in." 
against Missouri on Friday. The w h i l e tough so we finished 4-for-4 at the plate.
in the 
Irish led the all-time series Virginia fin­need to be Notre Dame, with a winning
Morning 
betw,wn the two teams J-0. ished at 0-Liz Miller ready to play." record and stellar performancesN e w s 
They arc slated to face 3. The Pitcher already this season, still looks to
Invitational 
Irish softbail coach Arkansas for the firsl time in a Cavaliers Jennifer improve.
Tournament. 
douhle-header on Saturday. ended the Sharron "We're Just looking to see ifBoth the Arkansas, with a 46-29 record 1999 season at 35-26 and stands undefeated on tho we can get better every game,"
1995 and 
last year finished second in the return seven of the nine starters mound at 3-0 following last Miller said. "That's what our1999 trrnms 
SEC conference tournament, from last year. weekend's stellar performance. goal is."
opened their returns eight of its nine startersseasons at 4­this year.
1 before con-Notre Dame ends its weekend tinuing on to Sharron 
with two games on Sunday

the NCAA against Vi.rginia. 
l1egi01rnls. 
The Cavaliers, who finished 1­The Irish racked up the four 4 in the UNLV tournament, arewins following last weekend's 

HOMES FOR RENT 

International and American Students 
We Invite you to listen and talk to others about your experiences on 
Sunday, February 27, 2000 from 3:00 -4:30 FOG Community Center 
Please Join Us! 

s4,SO All Shows Before 6 pm • Advance Ticket Sales Available All Times for Feb. 25~27·o~i·;; ... . . .. ···s~t~~day & Sunday Matinees in Brackets Reindeer Games (R) Digital The Beach (R) Digital 
[12:20 2:45] 5:15 7:45 10:15 [12:50] 3:50 7:15 9:55 Wonder Boys (R) Digital Scream 3 (R) Digital 
[1:401 4:20 7:00 9:50 [12:10 2:50] 5:30 8:10 10:45 Cider House Rules (R) Digital The Tigger Movie (G) Digital[l2:00 2:201 4:50 7:40 10:lO [l2:05 2:00] 4:00 6:30 8:30 · The Whole Nine Yards (R) Digital Snow Day (PG) Digital [[2:00 2:20] 4:50 7:40 10:10 [12:30 2:40] 5:00 7:25 9:40 Boiler Room (R) Digital [1 :30] 4: JO 6:40 9:00 [l 45] 4:40 7:20 10:20 Stuart.Little (PG) Digital Hanging lip (R) Digital Il'.!:25 3:00] 5:40 . [12:15 2:301 4:45 7:30* CJ:45 NextFridny (R) Digital *No Show Sat Februarv 26th 8:00 I0:25 
[1:50] 4:15 6:50 9:15. ManontheMoon (R) Digital What Planet Are You Fmm/R)S11enk P,-,.view 4:/X)r,m on Feb 29th & March 1st only· 
7:30 pm on Sat Feb 26th only The Green Mile (R) Digital Be our;uest. Stay for Hi1'1\'..'ll/1 U11 at9:45 pm [12:401 4:25 8: 15 Pitch 81ack (K) Digital [2:15] 5:20 7:50 10:30 
American Beauty (R) Digital[l:20] 4:30 7:10 10:00 
ONLY $100 AIIShowsBefore6pm

SCOTTSDALE 6 , Everyone• Everyday Scottsdale Mall • 299~6063 $1.50 AO Evening ShoWt! :f 0. 
End of Days (PG-13) Anna and the King (PG-13
l1:30] 4:50 8:00
fl:10] 4:10 7:00 9:50 
The World ls Not Enough /R)

Deuce Bigalo: Male Gigolo (PG-13) 
[ l :00] 4:00 6:50 9:40
[1:20] 4:20 7:20 9:30 
Double Jeopardy (R)

Bone Collector fPG-13) 
[1:40] 4:307:30 9:55
[1:50] 4:40 7: IO 10:05 

IObserver Sports. We Rule. I 

-Domus Properties has two, five, and seven bedroom houses available -Student neighborhoods close to 
campus -Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 2000/2001 school year BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY 3 HOUSES LEFT 
Contact Kramer (219)274-1501 or (219)234-2436 or (219)674-2572 

Topic: 


InterRace Dinner and Discussion Wednesday, March 1, 2000 CSC@5:30pm RSVP to OMSA by Friday, February 25th­@ 1-6841 


Friday, February 25, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Opportunity knocks as Irish take on Hurricanes 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Sports Ediwr 
MIAMI, Fla. 

Notre Dame's run to the NCAA Tournament has better resem­bled a crawl at times. 
It seems like every time the Irish take a step forward, they take another step back. Wednesday's R9-74 loss to Providence was a major set­back, but Notre Dame (16-11, 7 ­
6) will look to rebound when they travel to Miami Saturday to take on the Hurricanes ( 17 -9, 
10-3). 
"We see it as another oppor­tunity," sophomore forward Troy Murphy said. "We have blown a lot of those opportuni­ties this year, but thfl Miami game is a big game. It is nice to have another chance (to get a win]." 
The Hurricanes knocked off the Irish 63-49 earlier this sea­son at the Joyce Center. Notre Dame will look to avenge that loss and get back on track as the regular season nears its end, 
"If we hang our heads, we'll lose another opportunity." head coach Matt Doherty said. 
The Hurricane played on suf­focating defense in the teams' first meeting. holding the Irish to just 32 percent shooting. Murphy, the conference's lflad­ing scorer and rebounder. was held to just 14 points, but pulled down 13 boards. 
Notre Dame·s shooting woes were evident in Matt Carroll's 3­for-11 shooting effort. The Irish will need a boost from Murphy and Carroll if tlrny hope to upset the Hurricanes. Johnny Hemsley ripped Notre Dame for 18 points and point guard Vernon Jennings dished out 11 assists. 

Miami shot 47 percent from the field and made 17 -of-18 foul shots. The Hurricanes are riding a two-game win streak follow­ing a loss to Providence last week. However, unlike the Providence game, Notre Dame is the underdog and it has cher­ished that role all season. The Irish have knocked off heavv favorites like ConnPcticut, Seton Hall, Ohio State and St. John's. 
"Tho pressure is not on us Saturday," Doherty said. "We're not expected to win. It's their horn c-court." 
Following Wednesday's loss to Miami, Doherty was afraid he put to much emphasis on win­ning. 
''Maybe I talked too much about winning this game, instead of talking about effort and concentration." he said. "Maybe we were too tight. We missed a lot of easy ~hots early. We wanted to do so well and we're frustrated we didn't. That's probably my fault." 
Doherty intfmds to get his team solely focused on coming out and playing hard as he pre­pares for Saturday's Big East showdown. The game will have a huge impact on the Big East standings as the tournament nears and both teams' NCAA Tournament hopes. 
"I told the team I thought we needed to win two more games [to make the !'.CAA tournament] and we have three more to play," Doherty said. "We have to put [the Providence game] out of our minds quickly. We have another tough game on Saturday." 


All student groups must re-register annually to be eligible for official recognition and funding. Official recognition can only be granted by the Student Activities Office. For the 2000-2001 academic year, club registration will be held on April 27 and 28 in the Club Resource Center. Forms for the April registration will be distributed at the February session listed below. All undergraduate clubs are required to register during February and April. An appointment is not required --just show up between the hours listed below! 
LAST CHANCE TO REGISTER IS 
TODAY! 
10:00 AM -7:00 PM 
CLUB RESOURCE CENTER (314 LAFORTUNE) 
QUESTIONS? 
Call the Club Coordination Council at 631-4078 or the Student Activities Office at 631-7309. 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 25, 2000 
MEN'S· TENNIS 

Home season ends as Irish take on Boilermakers 
By RACHEL BIBER 
Sports Writer 

Members of the men's tennis squad may be tapping their tennis shoes. chanting "There's no place like home." 
After their last home matr,h on Friday, 
they ·w{lI hit the road for t h e rPmainder of the spring sea­s o n Thirty­t h i r d ranked 


N  o t  r  e  Sachire  
Dame  is  
set to  face off against the  

59th-ranked Purdue Boilermakers on Saturday before they pack up their bags and head to the home territory of the unranked Northwestern Wildcats for a match on Sunday afternoon. 
Saturday's match against the Boilermakers marks the end of a spertarular home career for Notre Dame's 17th­ranked, All-American senior Ryan Sachire. He has defend­ed the top singles court for Notre Dame for the majority of his four-year tenure, and Saturday marks the last time he will take on that duty at home. This decorated Irish athlete deserves the support and recognition of the student body as he showcases his tal­ent for the Irish home crowd for the final time on Saturday. 
As a freshman, Sachire made an immediate impact on the Notre Dame squad, even­tually playing No. 1 singles and helping the Irish to become an extremely competi­tive team. The accolades and 
awards he has amassed since his freshman year are high­lighted by his two All­American selections as a sophomore and junior, and finishing among the top 20 singles players in the country during the same two seasons. A thorough drscription of his achievements and honors would require a novel-sized list, and his influence on Irish men's tennis cannot be done justice with words. 
"The example [Sachirel sets daily is as good as anyone I have ever had," Irish coach Bob Bavliss said. une almost single-·handedly pulled us, even as a freshman, to a com­petitive level, and has done nothing but gotten better. He has made significant improve­men l in his game. He is as good as anyone in college tfm­nis." 
Despite his individual fame, Sachire remains dedicated to his Irish 
teammates, and has proven to br a respected and drpend­able leader. 
"He is team-oriented first and foremost," Bayliss said. "We are not going to replace Ryan next year. We know that." 
Sachire will be thinking about his last home appear­ance on Saturday, but leading the team to victory is his top priority. 
"[Playing at home for the last time] will definitely be in the back of mv mind," Sachire said. "But th~ most important thing is winning the match. Personally, I'll be playing a tough player, and we are going to have to play well to win." 
Seniors Trent Miller and Rob Warn will also bid farewell to the Irish tennis courts. Miller 


Take a FREE Test Drive and find outl 
Now is your chance to take a practice test under real test conditions. Experience Kaplan's Test Drive and you'll receive individual feedback on your performance. Don't miss this free opportunity to find out how you would score on the real exam. 
LSAT 11 am
MCAT 10am 

Saturday, February 26 University of Notre Dame 
Take the GMAT, GRE, or DAT on-line. 
Or take It onllne from 

.

1-800-KAP·TEST 
• . 

kaptest.com 
will team up with Sachire in doubles, while Warn will con­tribute from the sideline. 
"[Millerl brings a ton of effort and competitiveness to practice each day, and he is playing his best tennis right now," Bayliss said. "And we'll dofinitely miss rwarnl." 
Purdue comes intu Saturday's matchup with a 4-3 rrcord, fresh off of an emo­tional 6-1 win over intrastate rival Indiana, a team Notre Damn f'c-11 lo earlior this year. In recent history, the Boilermakers have needed to dig deep in order to win, and the Irish barely escaped them in their previous meeting last year with a 4-3 victory. Purdue has never been able to defeat Notre Dame. 
"I am concerned [about Purdue!," Rayliss said. "And I am more concerned that we play well and do what we are 
capable of. It's a match that's winnable, if we show up and play our best." 
Sachirc will battle it out in the top spot against Purdue's Jason Marshall, whose insPr­tion in the Boilermaker lineup has boosted the team's confi­de nre. BoilermakPr coach John Madden knows that Marshall is tough to beat. 
"lln constantly displays the fighting mentality I am looking for and seems to come out and control his matches every week," Madden said. "Jason is on the path to being one of 
the  bcst  college  players  
around."  
When  the  Irish  head  to  

Northwestern on Sunday, the Wildcats have the advantage of taking on the Irish on their home territory that is notori­ous for its unfavorable r,ondi­tions. Despite those circum­stances, the depth of the Irish lineup should be able to over­wme any threats posed by the 3-5 Wildcats. 
"It should be a good match, and we'll have to play well," Bayliss said. "We know that their No.1 player is pretty good, but I think we are a lit­tle dAepor." 
After a disappointing loss to the Miami llurricanes last weekend, the 5-3 Irish arc eager to regain their footing with double victory this week­end. Such an outc,;nw can eas­ily be foreseen, especially if junior Matt Daly proves to he healthy after being hindered by a shoulder injury through­out the season. 
"[The injury] is getting bet­ter, but it is not one hundred percent yet," Daly said. "But our team attitude has been better and we're more enthu­siastic this week. We're trying to get back on track." 

Breakfast the way it was meant to be. Hot, fresh, at ND and made by someone else. 

DELICOUS, FRESH-BAKED CINI-MINIS OR SAUSAGE EGG AND CHEESE BISCUIT. 
Ifyou don't consider yourself a morning person, perhaps these will make you reconsider. Delicious, hot Cini-Minis, from the heart ofthe bun, or the tasty Sausage Egg and Cheese Biscuit Hey, you may have to make your bed in the morning. but thanks to Burger King, at leastyou don't have to make your breakfast. 
The Huddle• Lafortune student Center 

www.burgerking.com For a limited time. Price and participation may vary. 
Copyright 1999 Burger King Colporat!on. Burger King Corporation is the erelusive licensee of the Burger King Bun Halves and Crescent Logo and the "It just taster better'trademari< and the registered Burger King tradamarlc. 
Friday, February 25, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Tarheels, Demon Deacons serve up challenge for Irish 
ranked Tar !feels of North 
By KEVIN BERCHOU 
Carolina and the fifth-ranked 
Sports Writer 
Demon Deacons of Wake Forest. 
The Notre Uame women's "It's well deserved," head tennis team is headed in the coach Jay Louderback said of right direction. the Irish ranking. "We play 
After moving up two spots to such a difficult schedule, with a No. 15, the Irish will look to ton of great matches, and continue their climb with that's a big factor." important road matches this Moving up, however, will not weekend against the 29th come easily as the task of play-ing two ranked opponents in the same weekend is a tall one. The Irish, though, appear to he up to it. 


"I think we thrive off of play­in& go~d teams," Louderback said. Our kids want to compete against the best." 
N o t r e Dame has played well of late, 
downing 
then 12th­r an k e d 
William 
and Mary last week in the first round of national. team indoors champi­onship, before falling to top­ranked Stanford in a close match. 
The soaring Irish have been propelled by the ever-improv­ing play of junior Michelle Dasso, who has made a recent habit of dispatching her oppo­nents quickly. S()nior Kelly Zaliuski has also contributed to the ascent, and by virtue of a recent win streak is just nine wins short of the school record for career singles victories. Sophomore Becky Varnum has flourished in her role as the team's No. 2 singles player. 
North Carolina, despite its 1­3 record, will prove a difficult test. 
"They've lost three matches to top 20 teams," Louderback noted. "They're a lot better than their record." 
The Tar Heels, who are 


coached by Roland Thornqvist, Louderback said the Deacons will play freshman Marlene have the singles edge, but Mejia against Dasso in No. 1 believes his squad has an singles, while Jessica advantage in doubles. Zaganczyk will face Varnum in "I think they definitely have No. 2 singles. The tandem of us in singles, and we'll need to Mejia and Erin Niebling will step up our play there," battle Dasso and Varnum in Louderback said. "But I do 
No. 1 dou­bles play. 
"/ think we thrive offof
Louduback insists his playing good teams. Our squad is not 
kids want to compete 
looking past 
against the best." 
the Tar Heels. "We have Jay Louderback to be leery of 
women's tennis coach 
t h e m They're good think our doubles are better. They have played so well lately." 
If the Irish are to knock the Deacons from their pulpit, they'll need noth­ing short of a spectacular effort from their dou­

and deep," he said. "We can't even begin to think about Wake Forest until that match is over." 
The Demon Deacons figure to give the Irish a devil of a time. Wake Forest sports a strong 3­1 record and advanced all the way to the semifinals of last weekend's national indoors competition before losing to eventual runner-up Callfornia. 
Fifth-ranked Wake Forest boasts a potent singles reper­toire bolstered by Adria Engel, who will play No. 1 singles, and Janet Bergman, the squad's No. 2 player. 
bles squadrons. The tandem of Dasso and Varnum has been superb, but the coupling of junior Kimberly Guy and fresh­man Katie Cunha has been equally brilliant. This weekend will go a long way in determin­ing whetheT or not the Irish can continue to climb in the rankings. 
Two wins would serve as a springboard, while even one defeat could be damaging. 
Louderback is aware of this weekend's importance. 
"It certainly is a big week­end," he said. "The whole team needs to step it up a notch." 

Interested in sports? The Observer is looking for copy editors. Call 1-4543 

~c,rmer l<RA member speaking for peace in Irelan~. 
Monday, February 28th $1 at the door 
7:30 p.m. 

Hesburgh Library Auditorium 

www.nd.edu/-sub 

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 25, 2000 
SWIMMING 

Irish look for luck as team hosts Shamrock Classic 
By COLLEEN MCCARTHY Sports Writer 
This weekend's Shamrock Classic swim meet may be viewed as a "last chance" meet for some teams in attendance. 
But the Notre·Dame men's 
a n d women's swimming teams are approaching it like any other meet. They want to swim as fast as possible 


and qualify Suddarth more swim­mers for the NCAA Championships in March. 
Hosted by Notre Dame, the Shamrock Classic on Saturday and Sunday is the last home meet for the Irish. For some teams, this will be the last swim before the NCMs and an oppor­tunity for swimmers who didn't participate in their conference championships to try for an NCAA. qualifying berth. 
"Some people will be here using this as a last chance meet; other teams will use it as a year end meet," said Tim Welsh, men's head swimming coach. "Our men will be doing both. We will have everyone on our team participating in this meet." 
The Irish men also will swim against Eastern Michigan and Miami of Ohio, who will be send­ing the largest squads. Notre Dame's Big East rivals West Virginia and University of Pittsburgh, who won last week's Big East Championship, will send a few individuals to partic­ipate, as will several other uni­versities. 
After finishing second at the Rig East Championship meet last weekend, the men's team hopes to take the momentum into the Classic. 
"We're all prepared to be at our very best," said Welsh. "We train all year to go fast and this 
NBA 

Deadline passes with only one trade 
ly refused to get off the team 
Associated Press 
bus when the Clippers arrived at the Target Center inOn the slowest NBA trading 

Minneapolis for their game

deadline day in 13 years, only against the Timberwolves. 
one minor deal was made Taylor, who has said he
between Orlando and Atlanta. 
won't re-sign with the ClippersA three-way trade that would when he becomes a free agenthave sent Los Angeles Clippers 

next summer, eventually

forward Maurice Taylor to the 
relented and played in the

New York Knicks fell through. 
game.

Thursday's lone trade sent Not since 1987, when Ben
guard Anthony Johnson from Poquette was the only playerthe Hawks to the Magic for a traded (going from Cleveland to 
is our last chance to swim faster than we have all year." Practices this week have been "looking sharp," said Welsh. 
"This is a smaller meet but we like ending the season at home and as a team," he said. 
"We've continued to advance our speed by resting this week," he said, "and we want to see if we can be even faster than we were last weekend." 
The team will evaluate their performance this weekend based on how fast their times are in events. 
"We will measure how well we do this weekend by how fast we go," said Welsh. "If we go faster than we did last week or faster than we have in our lives, we'll consider it a successful meet." 
After crushing their competi­tion in the Big East Championship meet last week­end to win their fourth-straight title, the women seek to qualify more swimmers for the NCAA Championships in this week­end's meet. 
"This is more or a meet for kids who didn't get to swim at the conference meet," said Bailey Weathers, women's head swimming coach. "We don't worry about scores so much at this meet because we usually win easily because we have all our kids participating." 
Swimming standouts and NCAA qualifiers Carrie Nixon, Alison Newell and Shannon Suddarth will see limited action this weekend, said Weathers. They most likely will not swim individual events but rather par­ticipate in relay events against teams such as Michigan State and Southern Illinois. 
Individuals expected to shine at this weekend's meet include freestyle swimmer freshman Katie Cavanrlini, Kerry White in the distance breaststroke, and freestyle sprinters Maureen Hillenmeyer, Liane Watkins and Christina Jackson. 

SCHOOL Of AR<CHXTIECTURJE 
COMPUTERS TODAY AND TOMORROW 
Saturday, February 26, 8:30-3:30. 8am: Coffee and rolls 
BOND HALL, ROOM 104 
Featuring practitioners, teachers, and software experts from throughout the United States. 
The purpose of this seminar is to acquaint the architectural community and those involved in computers with the current status and future prospects for computers in architecture and its allied fields. 
For additional information contact the School ofArchitecture at 631-6137 or via email to arch@nd.edu 
conditional second-round draft 
Chicago), had there been so r---------------------------------,
pick. 

slow of a deadline day. I I
The deal that was scuttled, 
"I thought there would at I I
for reasons that were unclear, least be a couple of salary cap I
D
would have sent Taylor to the 
related deals," Seattle I

Knicks, John Wallace from Supersonics general manager 1
ome

New York to Vancouver and 
Wally Walker said. I
Othella Harrington from the In recent years. there were I
Grizzlies to the Clippers, sever­live trades involving 18 players al league sources. speaking on in 1999, four trades involving I
condition of anonymity, told The Associated Press. 13 players in 1998 and six I
b k 

Taylor was so upset that the \";tr invol,ing 15 playe,s in dome year O O : deal fell through that he initial-

II C(#1,ce4i a-/ Jn~ e~ccdMauc 
featuring 
Nancy Lesh-Cello 
accompanied by 
Phil Hollenbeck -Pakhawaj 
Friday, February 25, 2000 
7:30 p.m. 
at the Auditorium, Hesburgh Center for International Studies, University of Notre Dame 
Sponsored by: The India Association of' Notre Dame & Office of International Student Affain; The Asian Indian Classical Music Society of Michiana The Joan R. Kroc Institute for International Peace Stndirs 
ND/SMC Faculty & Staff: $5 Students: Free Contact: Amitava Dutt (631-7594; 273-0928) 
is interviewing all interested undergrads I for 2000-2001 Section Editors. 
The following positions are available: 
* 
Photography Editor * Organizations Editor 

* 
Campus Life Editor * Year-in-Review Editor 

* 
Seniors Editor * Sports Editor 


Interested candidates call: Ann Marie at 631-7524 by Wed. March 1 
~--------------------------------J 
Friday, February 25, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
Fox TROT 
8UCI< UP, 
:JASOLYN. 
I>. ("llij v"fE, -nit Ov.J WOvl.Ot,(r s UT£S tlv T"'E l-\l':,R LONE. ~w \:Nn~ 
<.f>.N"f l?>t. !o 
SURE, YoUR FRIENDS WILL LlkELY LOATHE .a.ND DE­TEST YOU NOW THAT YOU'VE TUllNED INTO 
A. GIRL • 
OKI,'( '" '<ov t,llE 'TtlE. ~E.AI. :roe '.111;'.N I\N':,\w£F. 11\ll, 
Q'-.1(~,'f,oN: illE !..l6~A.lW,s f\) "' Pl AC~ -ro s,uOV 1',", t-. f'L"-lc. ,-o 6£.T 6<:x:,t:, oR '-) I\ PU<.f: To S.OCl~L, 
BUT YOU HA"E To l?EMEMBER, THU-j6S COULD 
SE EVEN WORSE. 
.J 

TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 
JEFF BEAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 

Things you will never hear at Notre Dame. 
beam.1 @nd.edu 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Holy man's title 1 Big 1980's-90's 36 Sing along box office draw 
39 Rude response 16 One for the to the visitors money? 
40 Vaudeville 17 Baking singer Bayes ingredient, 
41 Chamber

maybe 
groups18 Red army 
42 Gillette brand 

member 43 Little ones
19 Buenos_ 44 Shine, in
20 Butts 
ad-speak

21 Like 
45 Prefix with 

24 "A Yank in the 
propyl

_" (1941 film) 
47 Prosperity

25 Turning point: Abbr. 49 Kind of surgery 
26 Wholes or parts 51 Swindled 28 Writer Tarbell 53 Short, for short and others 
55 Rome debut of 30 Mark 2/15/1816, with "The"
32 They may go to blazes 59 Plants 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
s r r 1 

60 Welfare checks, e.g. 
DOWN 1 It's hard to tell 2 _ profit 3 See 11-Down 4 Mathematician 
John_ Neumann 5 Poultry that tastes like beef 6 Lion in "The Lion King" 7 Wen fixtures 
8 Ruined city in southwest Jordan 
9 Obsession 10 Passenger inquiries: Abbr. 11 With 3-Down, destination of some French emigrants 12 Lets slip, with "out" 13 Knighted composer 14 Printer's amount 
warnings 
23 Dovetail 25 Money maker 27 There's one in 55-Across 
29 Furnishing 30 Rave V.I.P.'s 31 Selene's sister 
32 Puzzler's shout 

Puzzle by Martin Ashwood-Smith 
33 "It's in the Bag" 46 Certain Muslims star, 1945 
48 Air freshener 34 Grind option 
35 Merry-andrew 49 Wide sashes 
37 _ Gate (one 50 Objurgation end of London 51 Mlle., in Bridge) Manresa 
38 Nebraska City's 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: George Harrison, Sally Jessy Raphael, Adelle Davis, Christopher George, Tommy Newsom, Sean Astin 
Happy Birthday: Your unusual interests will attract attention. You will be able to tune into the thoughts and feelings of others. You will make some good choices and some bad ones this year. Your ability to recog­nize business trends will bring you positive gains, but your inability to make emotional choices will cause problems. Yow numbers: 5, 19, 22, 26,37,40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Try to spend some time with your lover. You will find that honesty will be your best bet. Take time to look into pending legal matters. Don't sign contracts. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can present your ideas easily. Irrita• tions with skin, bones or teeth should be tended to immediately. Fund-raising events will bring you in contact witli interesting new people. 
000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Unre­liable individuals may take advan• tage of your generosity and kindness. Be careful with your possessions; personal loss is evident 000
52 Gets set 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Someone you live with may not be telling you the whole truth. Added 
54 _-majeste 

56 Language suffix 
responsibilities due to your partner or an elder in the family will be time­
57 Chocolatier's 

consuming. 00000
need 

LEO Ouly 23-Aug. 22): You will 58 Pct. rate offerer 
find that social events and fitness programs will be successful. You will 
be admired for your intellectual 
county 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
EUGENIA LAST 
approach to organizational dilem• 
mas.00 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): It is best to avoid overspending. Extrava­gant individuals may try to talk you out of your hard-earned cash. Let others pay your way for a change. 
0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Prob­lems with services for your home will cause disruptions in your rou­tine. Overindulgence on the part of someone you live with is a problem, so keep a close eye. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Friends may not be oompletely hon­est with you. Be careful not to di­vulge private information that may damage your reputation at a later 
date.000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your intellectual abilities will invite new friendships. Try to mingle with those who can help you get ah!ad. Be precise in your communication. 
000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): It 
is best to work quietly on projects that require your utmost attention. Do not confront situations that are emotionally disturbing today. 
0000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Deception is apparent when dealing with peers or relatives. Do not sign contracts or agreements. Personal secrets may be revealed. 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your intellectual approach to your career will aid you in choosing the proper direction. Escapist tendencies due to emotional confusion may hold you back.00000 


Birthday Baby: You are creative, caring and always eager to help those .
42 Very nearly are available by touch-tone phone: 

around you. You're into everything and extremely curious. You will always
43 Dwarf of a sort 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 

want to explore in order to discover new things and will keep your friends 44 Lake_, Annual subscriptions are available for the 
and family guessing as to what you are going to do next. largest lake in best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at aatroadvice.com, eugenialast.com,, astromate.com.) 
Italy years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

IC 2000 Univmal Press Syndicate 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 


Hangin' in there 
After a dissappointing loss to Providence, the Irish men's basketball team looks for another upset as they take on
PORTS 
Miami Saturday in Florida. 
page 23 
O
TIIE 

page 28 BSERVER 


WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
No. I UConn challenges Notre Dame's record 
in a 20-game winning strnak ­

By KERRY SMITH 
the hype aLout Saturday's game

Asssisram Sports Editor 
has bePn building !'or months. But when the two teams stepErnn though Irish head coach on the court at the Hartford Muffet McGraw has professed Civic Ci,nter, hype won't matter. all season that she and her team At 24-2, the frish arrive in 
take one game at a time, this Hartford backed Ly the nation's weekenrl has been at the back longest winning streak and an of their minds since November. 
undefeated home and confer­And no one could have script­ence record this season. ed a better matchup than when With a win over Connecticut. the No. 5 Irish travel to !'ace the Notre Dame would cap one of No. 1 Connecticut Huskies 
the most successful seasons in Saturday to decide the regular the program's history on a high season Big East conference note. champion. "It's a little different !comingAfter each Irish win at the in as the underdog]," said senior Joyce Center, opposing coaches guard Danielle Green. "They're
have sat at press conferences. the No. 1 team, but l.hey're not shaking their hRads at the talent any different than Hutgers or in the Big East, comparing their Purdue or Illinois. We just need loss to Notre Dame with their 
to win." loss to Connecticut and other But the Huskies are hungryBig East powerhouses. for another chance to take down After Georgetown's loss to the Irish. 
Notre Dame in January, Hoya With only one loss this season. head coach Pat Knapp couldn't the 25-1 Huskies have repeated­believe the talent on the Irish ly shown their seemingly
squad. unmatched basketball prowess,
'Tm not one to come in to downing opponents by as many town and boost up the other as 72 points. team," said Knapp, after the With a tight press, the Huskies 
Hoyas' 87-56 loss. "But if you're have been able to force their asking if Notre Dame can beat competition into too many
..... 
B.C., Rutgers, Connecticut, the turnovers, something the Irish 
answer is yes. have struggled with during the Knapp is 2-0 in his picks so 
season. far. The Irish went on to secure "We're working hard to han­wins against the Eagles and the dle their press," said Green. Scarlet Knights, and Irish fans "We are going to need to be hope his final prediction rings able to break the press." true as well. The Huskies strength comes in "They have this thing with 
their depth. The Irish starters Connecticut where thev don't match up well with the Huskies' win," said Knapp. "Bi.it from starting five, but UConn's bench 
what I've seen, they have the more tested Notre
is than talent." 
Dame's. That "thing" Knapp was refer­Huskie forwards Shea Ralphring to is Notre Dame's failure and Svetlana Ahrosimova head­to produce a single win against line an impressive UConn ros­the Huskies. The Huskies have 
ter. delivered 10 losses to the Irish 
Ralph leads her squad in scor­and have yet to come up short ing, averaging 14.6 points per Ruth Riley muscles her way through a Miami double team in Notre Dame's 20th straight win on points when the final buzzer 
game. Abrosimova nips at her Tuesday. Riley led the Irish with 36 points and 12 rebounds. sounds. heels, averaging 13.9 points perThe Irish lost only three 
outing. game. points. "We're excited for the game," games at the Joyce Center since Hitting the 100-point mark six Irish center Ruth Riley directs With Riley on the inside, the said Green. "We've bnen prac­their induction into the Big East times this season, the Huskies the Irish inside game. Averaging trio of Green, Niele Ivey and ticing all week and we're and all three of those losses like to score early and often. more than 16 points a game, freshman Alicia Ratay dominate ready."have been to the Huskies. The Irish also like to capitalize Riley has been Notre Dame's go­the arc. Ratay shot a confer­Saturday's matchup is a pre­
With history and ranking in on the fast break, making to player all season. The 6-foot-ence record 7-for-7 from 3-view of the Big East tournament UConn's corner and momentum Saturday's contest likely to be a 4 junior has led the Irish in their point land against Rutgers last next weekend, which will also swinging the way of the Irish -fast-paced, back-and-forth last two outings. racking up 62 weekend. be held in Connecticut. 

BENGAL BOUTS 
Boxers take to ring in preliminary-round action 
Gouts this weekend. impoverished country. ment." Bouts," said senior co-captain
By KERRY SMITH 
The Rengal Bouts, which "To compete in Bengal Bouts The 1999 BPngal Bouts .I.IL Mellin. "But the boxers Assistant Sporn Edicor 
began in 1931. aim to raise and to accomplish so much for raised $51,000 for the Holy would never have the sense of' money for the Holy Cross charity is a great thing," said Cross Missions and the club is pride and accomplishment 
Eight decades of' tradition Missions in Rangladflsh. Over senior co-captain Mike well on its way to its 2000 goal that they get from working takes the spotlight at the the years, the participants in Maguire. "This is something of $55,000. toward something that is big­Jovce Center as the Notre the Bouts have donated thou­you hear about, not something Ir we had no charitable ger than them." na"mfl Boxing Club takPs part sands of dollars to aid the dis­that everyone gets the chance cause to work for, we might. 
in the 70th annual Bengal advantaged people of the to do. It's a great accomplish-have the same turnout for the see BOUTS/page 16 
ac Miami Softball at North Carolina 
~V.-·•
~, 3t

Saturday, 7:30 p.m. at Arkansas Tournament ,,.,)''' Saturday, noon 
!f'•U _,.,,_

SPORTS "' ~) 
Today -Sunday 
Baseball

ATA at Loyola Tournament vs. Purdue vs. Ohio State 
Mf

A: Saturday, 8 a.m. \?q,·; Saturday, noon 
at Millington, Tenn.

GLANCE • Saturday, 5 p.m. 


