------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Have things your way 
Playing mind games? 
"As You Like ft" will be performed this 
Democrats accuse George W. Bush and 
Wednesday
weekend at Washington Hall by Actors from the 
GOP ofputting subliminal messages 

London Stage. Check out Scene's preview. 
in campaign ads. 

SEPTEMBER 13,
Scene . page 15 
News . page 9 

2000 





The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Daine and Saint Mary 'S 
VOLXXXIV N0.17 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Notre Drune crunpus experiences e-lllail server problellls 
By JASON McFARLEY 
New'.) Writer 
Heaching what Office of lnfurmu.tion Technology (OIT) officials called a "critical stage" Tuesday afternoon, an extended outage of the Universitv's elrr.tronic mail server was expected to be resolved by 8 a.m. today ­nearly a full day after it brought campus online com­munications to a standstill. 
"We·re looking to restore the server by eight in the morning. We want to inspect files and make sure that everything is working properly," OTT senior technologist Jemmy McCarty said Tuesday night. 
McCarty was part of the throe-person OIT team that worked strir,tly on the server problem Tuesday and early todav. 
"Thal team works from the time the problem is discovered until it is under control."_ said Larry Rapagnani. assistant provost for computing. 
On Tuesday. problems with Dagger. the University's e-mail server, first arose around 
11 :27 a.m., according to Hapagnani. Within an hour. the server was completely inaccessible to users of cam­pus e-mail. 
OTT representatives initially traced the malfunr,tion to the failure of two drives on the server. said a senior OIT administrator. When the auto­matic back-up function of the drives also failed, officials scrambled to manually inter­vene and copy stored files by hand. 
In the process. however. ofli­cials discovered a corruption in the metafile that holds the basic structure of the Notre Dame e-mail user's inbox, the senior administrator said. Officials had hoped to fix the corruption within two or three hours and restore the e-mail s.erver by mid-afternoon Tuesday, but they were ham­pered by the discovery of another problem in one of the server's drives. 
Rapagnani said his office was flooded Tuesday with calls from frustrated e-mail users unable to access their accounts. In response, tele­phone and voicemail messages were sent to faculty and administrators. alerting them that the difficulties were only temporary. Resident Computer Consultants also received calls. 
Still, by 4:30 Tuesday after­noon -almost four hours after the server shut down ­officials had deemed the out­age in its critical stage. OIT representatives label an out­age critical once it has passed the four-hour mark. 
The last comparable failure of the Universitv's e-mail serv­er occurred over two years ago, Rapagnani said. 

"This failure probably doesn't rank as a major prob­lem when you look at it from the standpoint that the server hasn't been down in two years," said Rapagnani. "It would appear that we're doing a stellar job." 
But that may have been of 

ID pictures help profs learn nrunes 
By MEG DADAY 
News Writer 
Sludenl anonyonity in De Bartolo 101 may become a thing of the past this semstcr thanks to 
new rlass list options available to faculty throLtgh lrishlink. 
This fall. the Office of the 

Re gistr a r Leege introduced the system, which enables a professor to call up a screen separately listing the names, rnlleges, and e-mail addresses of each student in each of his or her classes. From the mas­
ter list, ho or she can choose to P-mail the whole class. see more information about a particular student, or see a picture of every student. all with a single click of the mouse. 
"l like to be able to know who a student is and learn the faces with the names. This way I can have more of a feel for who's who," said Professor David Leege. "I can feel more a part of the class 
because I 

can know a little bit more about the stu­dents more quickly." 
"Every­body could get to all of 
Pace the infor­
mation available now, just not from one source," said Dr. Harold Pace, University registrar. Each professor has always been provided with the Social Security numbers, colleges, academic levels and e-mail addresses of all the students in his or her classes. In addi­tion to this information, they are now also provided with every student's hometown, campus address and phone number and major, all of which could easily be found in a campus phone book in the past. Also listed is whether a student has studied abroad. 
Faculty can also access the pictures and information of students in past classes. "By being able to go back we think it'll really help faculty write better recommenda­tions," Pace said. 
Upon learning of the new svstem, some students have expressed concerns about the amount of information avail­able. 
"The information we give to faculty is on a need-to-know basis." said Lora Spaulding, associate registrar. 
"Past grade history is none of their business and has nothing to do with how you're doing in their class. We some-. times get requests, but we wouldn't give that kind of information out," Pace added. 
The security of posting stu­d c n t information on the 
see PICTURES/page 4 
little comfort Tuesdav to mem­bers of the Notre Dii.me com­munity who have come to rely on the campus technology. 
For junior Erin Wibbens, a psychology major, the unavail­ability of e-mail proved "a major inconvenience." 
"It's been upsetting for me because I communicate with a lot of my friends and family members via e-mail. I can't afford to call my sister in Pennsylvania at Villanova University," said Wibbens, who checks her e-mail up to a 
see E-MAIL/page 4 
Saint Mary's considers 



change to statement 
By MOLLY McVOY Saint Mary's Editor 
The Saint Mary's faculty will discuss proposed changes to the College's mission statement at their Faculty Assembly meeting today. 
After the College's evalua­tion as part of their accredi­tation process. it became clear that the statement needed some adjustments. The basic goal of the state­ment, however, will remain unchanged. 
"The mission has not changed," said Sister Roseanne Schultz. chair of the committee that is reviewing the statement. "We're still educating women for leadership and action in a Catholic institu­tion that is based on a liber­al arts foundation." 
The phrasing and length of the mission statement will be revised, however. The present mission statement was written in 1987 and has not been re-evaluated. Part of the present mission state­ment reads, "Founded by the Sisters of the Holy Cross in 1844, Saint Mary's pro­motes a life of intellectual vigor, aesthetic apprecia­tion, religious sensibility and social responsibility." 
Tho current statement is nearly a page in length and, according to Schultz, several groups on campus felt they were left out of the state­ment's ideals. 
The proposed new state­ment will he a shorter and more complete picture of the College. 
"One of the focuses is that we want to be more inclu­sive of the entire College 
see MISSION/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, September 13, 2000 
fNSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 

A Touch of Class 
Everyone can agree that the loss against Nebraska Saturday afternoon was a tough one. Players, studenl'i and fans poured their hearts and souls into that game. Despite the loss. we all came away with a lot. We now know that our football team is living past expectations; we now know just how closely the student section can bond. 
I must say I was feeling pretty good about the quali­ty of people at Notre Dame. I had the chance to reflect upon this as I settled down for an early evening nap after the game. My room• mate and I turned off the lights, climbed into our bunks and recalled the day's events as we tried to drift off to sleep. 

However, our naps were soon interrupted by loud sr.reams and laughter just outside our window. No. it wasn't obnoxious Nebraska fans cele­brating their victory. It was worse. 
I pulkd back the window shade to find a group or Notre Dame students in their green shirts. kicking over one of those cardboard garbage bins outside of Bond llall, and spread­ing the trash all over the grass. They all thought it was a pretty funny thing to do. I was disgusted. 
What could I do to stop them from being so rude, so disrespectful, so ungrateful? 
All we could think to do was yell out of our darkened windows at them and tell them we could see what they were doing and that we didn't think it was a very cool thing to do. They looked up with confused faces and replied, "Who is that?" 
I wanted to shout back, "Who are you?" 
Who are you to literally trash our campus after such an exciting day? Who are you to dis­rnspect this school that gives us so much? Who are you to act less mature than the hundreds of little future Domers that were on campus Saturday with their parents? 
I observed them run away from the scene, giving each other high fives the same way stu­d en ts did when we made three touchdowns earlier that day. 
It was my impression that Notre Dame stu­dents felt a certain loyalty to this campus. to this school. However. that group of seven or eight children. as I now call them, thought it was their right to do whatever it was they wanted to just for the sake of their good time. 
Hopefully, whoever is responsible for such an immature ar,t reads this and recognizes that what they did does not fit in with Notre Dame's character -Notre Dame students don't tip over garbage bins to trash their campus. I hope they think about the people who had to get up early the next morning to pick up their mess. I want them to feel ashamed. 
Notre Dame is a classy place with classy stu­dents. We proved that to ourselves and to the world Saturday at the game. Let's keep it that way. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene 
Laura Rompf Laura Kelly Finn Pressly 
Graphics 
Li7 Zanoni Karie Annis 

Sports Production 
Karie McVoy 

Rachael Protzman Viewpoint 
Lab Tech 
Lrne Herrington 

Meg_ Kromer Pat McElwee 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is P"l,lishcd Mond,y 1hrnufll1 Friday cxcrp1 during cx,1111 ,nd vacmon p<:riod,. The Obs<rvcr is a member of the A,soci.ired Press. All r,prodnc11on r,~lm .ire res,=d. 
Wednesday  Thursday  
. Meeting: Student  . Cultural event: 5:30  
Senate, 6 p.m., Notre  p.m., Mariachi San Miguel  
Dame Room. LaFortune  and inauguration of  
. Open house: 12 noon.  Hispanic Heritage Month,  
Office of Multicultural  Fieldhouse Mall (rain site  
Affairs. third floor, Haggar  Lafortune Ballroom)  
College Center. SMC  

Friday  Saturday  
. Pep Rally: 6:40 p.m.,  . Game: Notre Dame vs.  
Joyce Center  Purdue. noon  
. Film: "Bye Bye Brazil."  . Book signing: 9:30 a.m.  
9 p.m., Annenberg  "Rudy's Insights for  
Auditorium. Snite Museum  Winning in Life," by Rudy  
Ruettinger, Hammes Notre  
Oame Bookstore  

Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
UNLV president blasts local police force 
LAS VEGAS 

A university regent called University of Nevada-Las Vegas police "Keystone cops" and "a bunch of cowboys" at a subcommittee meeting Thursday and suggested that UNLV police be disarmed after he read the report on the bungled March 9 drug raid. 
Regent Doug Hill gave his unabashed reaction to the highly sought, 1000-page, confidential report despite requests by university attorney Tom Ray to refrain from making negative comments publicly. 
'Tm very concerned about the safety of our students Iwhich is] in jeopardy," Hill said. He lamented the "incompetence and lack of training and the direct violation of instruc­tion" of the raiding officers and "the 
UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND 
Crowd heckles Rwandan president 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. 

Rwandan president Paul Kagarne's speech announcing an international partnership between the University of Maryland campus and the National University of Rwanda Monday was interrupted twice by angry spectators shouting accusations that the leader is a murderer. Two people were escorted out of the Colony Ballroom by University police after their outbursts during Kagame's speech. The two spectators asked Kagame to respond to questions regarding the genocide taking place in Zaire. After refusing to leave without an answer, they were removed from the building by police. The partner­ship, which includes information technology exchange, distance education and conflict manage­ment and research. was conceived by campus President Clayton Mote Jr. about a year and a half ago. Mote formally introduced Kagame, presenting him with a crystal candle which, according to Mote, "symbolizes a lasting friendship." 
LOCAL WEATHER 

MCGILL UNIVERSITY 
Newspaper battles campus lease 
MONTREAL 

The McGill Daily and the Students' Society of McGill University find themselves in a heated court battle over a lease dispute between the two parties, after the Students' Society deemed it necessary to lock the paper out of its offices. For several years now. SSMU has been planning renovations to the Shatner Building to make it a more student-friendly facility. This includes increasing access for disabled students by adding a ground level access on the south side of the building. In doing so, the construction will be taking over part of the area occupied by The Daily's offices. As a result, SSMU is seeking to restructure the paper's lease agreement, removing 229 of the 1700 square feet of space from the paper's offir,es. Negotiations toward a new lease. however, were plagued over the summer by disagreements between the two sides. This stalemate eventually led SSMU to put a bolt on The Daily's office on August 4, denying the staff access. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 D tIY South Bend FOJ:eO!la 

The AccuWeather«> forecast for noon, Wednesday, Sept. 13. 
Pco.i'ffithar !cm=st for dlytirre cx:rrlitims arrlhigi t:m,:eratures Lines separate high temperature zones tor the day. 

H L 
Wednesday ~ 79 55 Thursday ~ 70 50 
''''' 
Friday ~ 62 43 Saturday ~ 61 45 
~ 



Twelve police officers and a Metro canine unit entered six rooms with guns drawn. They broke down two doors on the second floor of the Boyd residential hall, according to Hill. 
They handcuffed several students and a resident hall coordinator, making one arrest for felony opium trafficking. After four months. the district attorney charged Graig Adler with two felonies for possession of marijuana residue in a watPr pipe and for the possession of four Ecstasy tablets. The 18 plastic bags contained fragrant talcum powder, not opium. 
Hill requested another report to be made available to the public with names omitted. 
"If this is the kind of conduct we can expect from the UNLV police department. then the question is. do the students have more to fear from minor drug use or the UNLV police department?" Hill asked. 
Sunday ~ 66 48 Q,~_G_'9Q,Qt> ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cfoudy Cloudy Via A,sociated Pr95S GraphlcsNel 

~ 2000 AccuWea&her, Inc. Preuurt: ® © D D High Low Showers Rain  D r...1orm•  D Flurrie~  D Snow  COl.0 w le•  WARM STATIONARY Sunn Pt Cloud Claud  
Atlanta Ballimore Boston Chicago Houston  88 86 79 n 91  70 68 66 46 77  Las Vegas Memphis Milwaukee New York Palm Beach  104 75 91 77 75 54 79 68 93 81  Philadelphia Sacramento St. Louis Tampa Washington. DC  81 84 81 95 82  68 61 55 79 70  

Wednesday, September 13, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Professor develops new method to fight bacterial infections 
By MOLLY McVOY News Writ.,, 
The trojan horse is back, but lhis lime it is fighting micro­scopi!'. invadMs. 
\!larvin \ltiller and members ol his 
organi!'. lab­oratory at Notre Dame have devel­oped a new method for fighting bacterial infe!'.tions. 


Nicknamed Miller "the trojan horse.·· their method "sneaks" antibiot­ic agents into thP infecting bac­teria. 
The lab's project was the covr.r for the August issue of the Journal of Organic Chemistry, one of the most well-resp·ected journals in Miller's field. 
Miller's method attaches antibiotic agents to molecules the bacteria cell incorporates as part of normal functioning. The antibiotic can then enter the cell and destroy the bacte­ria. 
"The microbes are essentially committing suicide," Miller said. 
In order to survive, bacteria need to incorporatf' iron into their system and do so using molecules called ''siderophores." The siderophores are the molecules to which Miller's lab have attached antibiotics. 
"We have demonstrated that it worked several times," Miller said. 
As bacterial diseases become more and more resistant to cur­rent antibiotics, work such as 
Miller's has become increasing­Miller's current tasks is to ly important in the medical make the method applicable for community. Many bacteria fight more drugs. antibiotics by refusing them "We've attached many diffor­
entry into the  ent antibi­ 
cell. By attach­ otics and all  
ing the drug to something the bacteria recog­ "Our idea is that we'd like to fine tune this  of them seem to work rela­ 
nizes  as  nor­ method so we have  tively well,"  
mal, the lab has removed a large part of  microorganism specific antibiotics."  Miller said. "The point we're at  
the resistance  right now is  
problem. "We may be able to bypass  Marvin Miller professor of chemistry  trying to make it more gcmir­ 
one  of  the  al.  The  
defense mech­ point we're  

anisms [of the bacteria) by at now is really exciting." bypassing the normal transport In addition to solving part of of antibiotics into the cell," the resistance problem, this Miller said. method may also cut back on 
The lab has had the most suc­side effects from taking antibi­cess attaching a kP.y component otics. Presently, antibiotics kill of penicillin, beta-lactams, to nearly every bacterial organism thf' siderophores. One of' they come in contact with, including those that are part of the body naturally. This can cause a depeletion in necessary bacteria and leads to unwanted side effects. 
This method may allow researchers to specify what bacteria the antibiotic will enter and, therefore, destroy. 
"Our idea is that we'd like to fine tune this method so we have microorganism specific antibiotics," Miller said. 
Miller joined the faculty at Notre Dame in 1977, after receiving his l3 .S. in chemistry from North Dakota State University in 1971 and his Ph.D from Cornell University in 1976. He has received numer­ous awards and fellowships during his tenure at Notre Dame and was given the Shilts/Leonard Teaching Award of the College of Science at the University for excellence in teaching in 1994. 

AcclaiIDed author teaches journalisin class at Notre Dam.e 
of narrative nonfiction writing. major. violence," Kotlowitz said. By ERIN LaRUFFA "Narrative nonfiction has taken on a "I decided about half way through Bringing such worlds to the attention Assistant News Ediror much more prominent role than it had that I didn't want to spend the rest of of people who live on the outside is 
30 or 40 years ago," Kotlowitz said. my life in a laboratory," Kotlowitz one important role of narrative nonfic­
Writer Alex Kotlowitz will spend The opportunity to study this partic­said. tion. every Monday this fall traveling ular form of journalism with Kotlowitz He was unsure what to do after "It offers a window onto a part of between his home in Chicago and a convinced senior American studies graduating with a political science America we may not venture into," he c· Iassroom in the Main Building at majors Erica Thesing and Brian degree, so he worked at a cattle ranch said, adding that he hopes his work Notre Dame. Hobbins to take the course. for a year. Then he went to work at a with "force [readers] to look at them-
As the American "l was really familiar with his work. small Michigan selves." studies depart-That style of deep investigative report­newspaper At the same ment's visiting ing really interests me," said Hobbins, where he real­"/ was really familiar with his time, Kotlowitz Welch Chair profes­adding that Kotlowitz has real-world ized he could said he does not
work. That style ofdeep
sor. Kotlowitz is journalism experience that will help "carve out a believe he can teaching ''American students. career" in investigative reporting really save the world Nonfiction "I read 'There Are No Children Here' journalism. through his
interests me." 
Narrative: The in Core sophomore year and I was From the writing. Literature of Social impressed by what he did with that beginning of "Sometimes a Concerns." book," said Thesing, who is concen­his journalism Brian Hobbins piece of writing 
Kotlowitz is trating in journalism. "As journalists. career, student of Kotlowitz will change known among Notre Dame Arts and we have an opportunity to impact Kotlowitz matters of pub-Letters majors as the author of "There social issues." enjoyed being lic policy or Are No Children Here." a book about Students in the course will do a sig­pushed into other communities in public discourse," he said. "I don't set two brothers living in a Chicago hous­nificant amount of writing over the which he had to talk to strangers. out in my work to do that. I certainly ing project. Sophomore Core classes semester and will read some of "You spend time with people, [and] don't think of myself as an advocacy read the book during the fall semester. Kotlowi.tz's work, including "The Other you inevitably build a relationship journalist. l see myself as a story­
In addition to writing books, Side of the River." with them," he explained. "That's the teller." Kotlowitz has been writing for the Thesing said she is looking forward thing I love about this work." Hobbins said that Kotlowitz's "down New Yorker and New York Ti.mes to asking questions about the story to One community Kotlowitz ventured to earth" attitude surprised him. Magazine as well as teaching winter the person who actually wrote it. into during his career was the Chicago "He's really receptive and humble courses at Northwestern University. Although Kotlowitz has a successful housing project that was the setting of for someone who's had so much suc­He previously wrote for The Wall career in journalism, he did not "There Are No Children Here." What cess," Hobbins said. Street Journal. always plan on a career in writing. he saw was a world different from the "I think it's going to be a really 
In his class at Notre Dame, Kotlowitz Kotlowitz, who attended Wesleyan one he was accustomed. rewarding experience to be in his said he will cover the role and nature University, was originally a biology "I was pretty horrified, mostly by the class," Thesing added. 

,._;',
·: :9!11 ~ ·•·... 1g ·_ ts. 
,_,_•:::/~:!'/ •,•,,~]~·:~: .·· 

... · , t. Olympk:,). MEtdal Race is on! 
"~ ,. . .. · with the GE College Medal 
MDPm,com. 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 13, 2000 



Etnail 
continued irom page l 
dlJzen limes pl\r day. 
Whilr. Lyn Spillman may not utilize her e-mail account as l'rnqur.ntly as Wibbens. the soci­
o Iogy profossor said she has 1w v c r l he Icss be P n in r. o n v c ­nienc<id. 
"It's rertainfy b<\trn inconve­niPnt. r do tlw· majority oJ' my busirwss wilh my sludenr.s ctnd cot!cagu<'s ov<ir <'-mail," she said. 
Healizing that many studnnts, faculty and staff accBss their accounts in the evening, OIT of'l'icials inilially hopod to rosolvB Lfw s,,rv<>r problems by Tuf'sclay night. Hapagnani aclmitl<·d TuPs<lay lhal the PXL<·ndNl outag<' would n11ga­

Pictures 
continued from page l 

lnl<•rrwl was a major ronsid­~ration whPn planning tlw !WW SVSlf'Hl. 
"fri;hlink is a s!H'llr«' gatc­wav into a C"orporate data­basP," said Pac<'. "A faculty nwmb<'r must put in codes to VPril'v who tlwv an• and r.an on!~, -gPt acrPs~ to th<'ir own class lists." 
llowPvPr. all of llw informa­tion of' stu­d1· 11 ts \\ ho 
rPqUPSl a 
"Eventually, I get to 
S P !' ll r i l V blor k on know all<~/'my students. 
t!wir add n•ss This just speeds and phon<' 
up tlw process."
numbf'r in 1h1• r a rn p u s d1rnctorv is David leege acrnssibl;, to 
professor of government
fal'ulty sinr.e it is IHH' <' s ­sary f"or Nlu­calional purpos<'S. A warning is displayl'd, next to Llrn stu­dent's pic.turP with Llw infor­malion. rc'(flll'Sling-lhal it not I)(' disl'losl'd to anyonP.. 
"Wn'rp just going to see how faculty us11 this," said Spauldin,lf. "If Llwre arr abus­
"We folt lih it fit into tlrn mission of Notre Dame as a personal institution whero faculty know students," Pace said. 
tively affect a lot of' people at the University. lie said. howev­er. that any delays in restoring the server would be to ensure its proper future functioning. 
Hapagnani said that in the pasl year. the server has under­gone a. number of upgrades to keep it working properly. A year ago. it received an operat­ing system upgrade. Upgrades to the hardware and the e-mail packaging ocr.urrnd over the summer. 
The server is currently in need of another operating sys­tem upgrade. according to the assistant provost. Ile cautioned, though, that that has nothing to do with Tuesday's shutdown. 
"The problem at hand is fixing current problems. and our three-man team can call on any 
levPI of rl'sourcns they need."---------------------------------------, 
hn said. "We want this problem kt!pt to a minimum." _ 
es. wn'll rn-evaluato it." 
Th PrP a r n so m P t· on r. <' r n s bPsirles security. Instructor Paul Mur.ller said that in larg­rr classrs wherr partiripation is not rrquirnd, he hopPs that lh<' photo tisls do not <'ncour­agt' professors to "idP.ntil'y lateconwrs and 11011-partid­pants." llf' bPlif'ves that onr. downfall or t.hf' svstPm could bl' that "a dPgree ·or anonymi­lv would be violated." 
-So far. however. the reac­tion Crom f'acu!iy has bef'n 
favorable. "Eventually. 
I got to know all of mv stu­dPn ts ... · said LPegii. ''This just spPP.ds up the proCPSS. "This is ri~ally handy for Pvnry class," said Prof'f'ssor Louis Bnrzai. who said he averages 


Mission 
continued from page 1 
community." Sr.hultz said. 
The new statement. as 
was the old statement, is 
based on the core values 
set up by the College ­
learning. r,ommunity. faith, 
spirituality, and justice. 
The committee has been working on a new draft of the statfiment for nearly two vears, but is nearing the point of completion. · After the facultv has offered their input at \Vedmisday's meeting, the statement will 

Do you want to go to 


Disney World? 
Enter the Notre Dame vs Navy SUB contest so you can win the 
Student Travel Package 
that includes: 
A Two-person gift certificate 
for ND vs Navy game tickets, 
hotel accomadations, and 
two-day Disney World 
Therne Park Passes! 
Look for us on 

September 13th & 14th 
at the Dining Halls and 
in Lafortune 

It's $2.00 to buy a ticket & you may buy as many chances as you'd like 
be offered l'or the Board of' Trustees approval at their November meeting. 
"We are moving toward a final draft and that is why it's being presented to the facultv," Schultz said. 
In addition to making the mission statement more inclusive, the new draft has added specifics to the gen­eral goals of the 1987 ver­sion. 
"The currenl statement bas goals and objectives and we wanted to make it more precise," Schultz said. 
The new statement will also become a parl of all of the College's planning, Schultz said. The commit­
tee hopes the brevity and completeness of the state­ment will lend itself to wide use. 
"[The nf'w statement) is briefer and everyone can remember it," Schultz said. "Our hope is that this will be incorporated into evnry­one's planning." 
The committ11c is also set­ting up a systcm so that tho mission statement will be re-evaluated every f'ivn years in the future. 
"We were also asked to organizf' a mission assnss­m<'n t plan," Schultz said. "This is simply so we can assess the mission statA­mcnt." 


(Qpy SHOP 
Lafortune Student Center University of Notre Dame 
Phone 631-COPV 
Monday -Thursday: 7:30 am to Midnight Friday: 7:30 am to 7:00 pm Saturday: Noon to 6:00 pm • Sunday: Noon to Midnight 



Satisfaction Guaranteed! 
f 
~WeJre the Friendliest w<:m9PY Shop in Town! 
iJl!flr1!({1/J fr'?_-' • • 
wi91P,j;Patronage 1S important to ·us, here at The Copy Shop in the l.aFortune Student Center. That's 
utrHrlrme never skimp on being ly. Our customer service ·. ntatives will always greet _nd help you in a kind and · us manner. We're happy to help you and offer you service with a genuine smile! 


High Volume Copying Color Copying, Scanning & Printing Binding /Tabs/ Laminating/ Fax Service Newsletters / Reports / Business Cards Complete Desktop Publishing Service 
FREE PICK-UP & DELIVERY! Quality Copies, Quickly!'" 
www.CopyShopND.com 
Copyright 2000 • All Rights Reserved • 09/00 



ATION 
Wednesday, September 13, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
South African blast injures seven: 
A bomb exploded in a parking lot near a mosque at an opposition party meeting Tuesday night and injured seven people, the latest in a series of attacks in this coastal city. The blast occurred in the largely Muslim neighborhood of Gatesville, said Andre DuToit, chief detective of Western Cape province. The bomb had been placed in a parking lot near the mosque, a medical center and a hall where the IJemocratic Alliance party was meeting. 
Netherlands allows gay marriages: 
Netherlands lawmakers on Tuesday gave same­sex couples the right to marriage and all the trappings, including adoption and divorce ­approving legislation that provides gays rights beyond those offered in any other country. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
N.J. halts bear hunt: Wildlife officials on Tuesday voted to scrap what would have been the first scheduled black bear hunt in the nation's most densely populated state in 29 years. The New Jersey Fish and Game Council voted 6-4 to halt a hunt that was to begin next Monday. The board heard criti­cism from local governments and environ­mental groups, and one lawsuit to halt the hunt was filed by animal groups, individuals and towns. 
Selma elects first black mayor: 
Businessman James Perkins was elected mayor Tuesday, becoming the first black to win the office in a city where blood was shed in a 1965 crusade that opened voting booths to blacks across the South. Perkins. 47, oust­ed Mayor Joe Smitherman, a former segrega­tionist seeking his 10th straight term in the non-partisan runoff. It was Perkins' third attempt to knock Smitherman out of office. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Bioterrorism threat scares couple: 
Firefighters decontaminated a home after Donna Skatrud discovered mysterious powder along with a note suggesting the material con­tained a disease. Paul Skatrud is a microbiolo­gist who returned last month from a microbiol­ogy convention in San Diego. On Sunday, his wife was going through paperwork Skatrud brought back from the conference when she found a typewritten note that said, "You have been exposed to Coxiella burnettii," an infec­tious bacteria. rt was unknown whether the package contained bacteria or if it was a hoax. 
Market Watch 9/12 

Dow 
11,233.23 +37.74 
]ONES 
• 
Composite
Up: Same: Volume:l,522 531 905,024,896 

AMEX: 970.41 +OSiYI 
Nasdaq: 3849.Sl -46.84 
NYSE: 675.84 +lAO 
S&P 500: 1481.99 -7.27 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITI %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCOl -J.77 ·l.J071 58.88 l.\:t:F.NTTEC!l INC (LL:) -5 i7 -2 125() .16.71 WORLIJCllM INC (WCOM) unch .,o.oo lllS UNIPHASE l)DSUi -5.98 -6.%00 103.2 NURTLI. NETWOl(KS(NT) -6.:,2 -4.:,025 64.56 
LIBYA 

Hostages gain freedom, at a price 
. Authorities pay $10 million for release 
Associated Press 
TRIPOLI 
Four men held captive in the Philippines for 140 days gathered at a historic fortress on the Mediterranean to ofler thanks to Libya for arranging their release, then finally headed home to be reunited with familv and friends. · 
Libya reportedly paid the Abu Sayyaf rebels of the southern Philippines $10 million in exchange for the freedom of the four men and six other hostages released last month. 
"We are now facing the sunrise after a long time of darkness," said Risto Vahanen, who spoke for the hostages freed Saturday during the hourlong ceremony at the Red Palace, bordering Tripoli's ancient walled quarter. 
· Former captives German Marc Wallert, Frenchman Stephane Loisy and Finn Seppa Franti attended, as did three senior officials from Finland, France and Germany who also expressed their gratitude to the Libyan government for its work to free the men. 
Some speakers wore dark glasses against the glare of the Mediterranean sun, and their hair and clothes were stirred by sea breezes during the out­door gathering. 
The ceremony appeared to bring the Libyans the results they hoped for ­maximum publicity for their role in the hostage saga to win international respectability for their country, long accused of sponsoring terrorism and meddling in the affairs of other nations. 
Libyan leader Moarnmar Gadhafi, who did not attend the ceremony, said last week he hopes for improved rela­tions with the United States. His deci­arrived in Helsinki Tuesday to a warm person.
sion last year to surrender for a trial welcome from family and government Asked after the ceremony whether in the West two Libyans accused in officials. Vahanen kissed the airport Libya's prestige had been boosted bythe 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight tarmac after he got off the plane from its role in freeing the hostages, Seif el­
103 led to the suspension of U.N. 
Tripoli. Islam Gadhafi, the Libyan leader'ssanctions and better ties with Europe. 
"I thought that it would taste of air­son, said, "Of course." 
Wallert, whose parents had been craft fuel, but it tasted of nothing," Libya denies paying ransom for thekidnapped as well but set free before Vahanen joked. captives' freedom, saying it onlyhim, arrived in Germany late Tuesday French hostage Loisy was embraced offered funding for development pro­aboard a German military plane and in turns by ecstatic family members jects in the impoverished, largelybear-hugged his waiting mother and on arrival at Paris' Charles de Gaulle Muslim southern Philippines. Libyafather. 
airport Tuesday. has longstanding ties with Muslim"I suppose it's obvious to say that l In the most significant acknowledg­rebels in the mostly Roman Catholicam overjoyed," Marc Wallert, who ment so far of Western gratitude for nation, has helped build schools andappeared in excellent spirits, said on 
Libya's efforts, German Foreign mosques in the south and has been
the tarmac at Hanover airport. "J have Minister Joschka Fischer was flying to accused of training rebels from thenever been so happy to come back." 
Tripoli to thank the government in region's larger Muslim rebel group. 
Finn hostages Vahanen and Franti 


U.S. grants visas to Cuban lawmakers 
anonymity, said the seven U.N. Millennium Summit to allow lower-ranking
Associated Press 
would be allowed to and had requested per• lawmakers to visit, the NEW YORK attend the meeting in mission for the official said. However, he The Slate Department Washington of the Washington visit. said that Cuba's agricul­on Tuesday approved Congressional Black Cuban officials who trav• ture minister, Alfredo visas for seven Cuban law­Caucus. el to the United Nations on Jordan Morales, was also 
The group had originally U.N. business normally denied a visa.
makers to attend a 
Washington meoting of invited National Assembly are not given permission Alarcon told reporters black Congress members, President Ricardo Alarcon to travel more than 25 Tuesday he had planned and other Cubans to miles from New York. to announce at the
but still refused admit­tance to the communist Washington for festivities On Monday, a State Washington meeting an island's National Assembly marking the founding of Department official said offer by the Cuban govern­president. the caucus. Alarcon 's request had ment to allow 250 poor 
A State Department ofli­Alarcon had been in been denied. black Americans a year to cial in Washington, speak­New York with President But on Tuesday, the study medicine in Cuba ing on condition of Fidel Castro to attend the State Department agreed free of charge. 

j 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, September 13, 2000 
Wal-Mart quits selling sauce due to racisin 
Associated Press 

COLUMBIA. S.C. 
Wal-Marl said Tu1isdav that it will no longer sell a p(ipular barbPc tie s au c n i n six Soutlwrn stntns lwcaw,n the manufacturer snits nrnrchan­dise with racist overtonns. 
MaurirP BPssinger's mus~ tard-basPd saucn was rPmovPd from sht•lvPs ol" eight Sam's Club stores in North Carolina and South Carolina two WPPks ago aftnr a con­sumer complairwd about the ConfPd(\ratP flags al Bnssingnr's rf'staurants. 
Wal-Mart. which owns Sam's Club, said Tunsday that after invnsti­ga.ting lht> 
"This has nothing to do with the Confed1m1te flag." 
The merchandise includes tracts that offor justification for slavery. Until the Supreme Court stepped in in 1976, Hessinger rnfused to serve blacks at his restaurants. 
Bessingp,r, who unsuccess­fully ran for governor in 1974, was a vocal supporter of k<rnping the Confoderate flag atop tlrn donrn of' tlH' South Carolina Capitol. In a compro­mise that followed months of criticism and national atten­tion on the issue, the flag was removed from the dome July 1 and a similar flag was placed on Statehouse grounds. 
Bessinger 
said Wal­

complaint, it "We 're just not Mart was will re movP trampling
romfortable with some 
the product on his right
of the things he is 
to free than 90 Wal­selling in there." speech. lie Mart storns 
from mor<~ 

said he across the 
came into

Jay Allen 
the world discount Wal-Mart spokesman poor and "! 
South. The 
rPtailnr sold th(' saurf' onlv in Sout.lwrn stores. 

/lw custonH•r romplai nPd bec.ausP Brssingnr had rPrnovPd tlH' U.S. llag from his Pight l'iggiP Park rPslaurants and rPplacpd it wilh statP and Conl'PdPt'alt' flags. Wal-Mart visilt~d the rPstaurants bPl'orP dropping flpssingPr as a Vl'll· dor. 
"We'n• just not comf'ortablP with somP of tlw thing's hP is sPlling in tlwrP," Wal-Marl .-.pokPsman .la) :\llPn said. 
may go out 
poor, but I will not yield to thosn who would d11stroy our sacred Constitution." 

Wal-Mart has Pvrry right "to dt•cid1\ who W(' do businnss with and WI' ·rr PXl'r<'ising that right," Allrn said. 
All,•n said tlw s,wrP has sold wPII but will Im rcnwvnd from lhP storPs basPd on principle. 
"W(•rp the largf~st PmployPr of Hispanics and Af'rican­AmPricans in lhl' U.S.," Al!Pn said . 



Ilection 2000 
R11g/stertJd to 1/018 /JUI SUI/ DBBll an allsenlBB /la/Ioli' 
coma to the north and or DeBanolo this Wadnasdav 
.......1011D Ull 21111 
to pick up an absentee ballot appllcauonfor vour state. 
I11auaht IIv1u IIY lllldent 811Vt1rnmea1 I 
Annan presses for peace in Cyprus 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 
Sccrelarv-Gencral Kofi Annan told i·ival Cypriot lead­nrs Tuesday thal it was time to move to¼'ard the reunilka­Uon of' their war­divide d island. 
Annan 's 
statement c a m e af'tcr he met scpa­r ate I y w i t h !'resident Glafcos Cle.rides. the interna­lional ly recognized Greek Cypriot loader, and Turkish Cypriot leader Rauf Ornktash. Both sidfls have bncn trying to reach a settle­ment through indirect talks. 
Dcnktasi1. however. has riofused lo meet Clerides directly, or discuss substan­tive issues, unless hP is givnn equal status to CleridPs through thP recognition of' his breakaway state in the Turkish-occupied north of the island. 
RETIREMENT INSURANCE 

"In the course of' these talks I havo ascortained that the parties sharo a common dosirc to bring about ... a comprehensive settlement nnshrining a new partnership on which to build a bettP-r f'uturc in peace, security and prosperity on a united island," Annan told the lead­ers in a statement that was distributed by Alvaro do Soto. Annan 's special adviser on Cyprus. 
"I believe tho time has now come to movr ahead," /\nnan said. adding that the "equal status of the parties 111 ust and should be rncognizcd explicit­ly in the comprehensive snl­tlenrnnt." 
The two leaders left the 
U.N. headquarters after their separate meetings of about one hour each with Annan without saying anything to waiting reporters. 
De Soto refused to say how nacb reacted to Annan's statenrnnt. but said indirnct talks would continuo Wednosday and would likely last for the next two weeks. 
De Soto said the SP.curity Council resolutions. which ruin out recognition of' tl111 

breakaway statdet. continue to be binding. 
Cyprus has bor.n divided into a Greek Cypriot con­trolled south and Turkish­occupied north since a 1974 Turkish invasion following a coup by supporters ol' union with Greece. 
Clerides insists a setth1nH\t1L must be based on the council r f\ so Iu ti on s n n vis a g in g th 11 island's reunification as a singlr statr. with two l'cdcral regions. onn Crnr.k ,Lnd onn Turkish Cypriot. 
The rnsolutions. which arp rejected by Denktash and tlw Turkish governnwnt. also call l'or the withdrawal of' thf\ 
35.000 Turkish troops and flstimated 80,000 Turkish mainland settlers inlroducPd to tlw north and thr. rnturn th1:rn of' 180,000 Cre('k Cypriot ref'ugr.es who f'!Pd or wern r.xpPllr.d in tlrn wakP of' the invasion. 
Tim Turkish sidP insists on the rPcognition of tlw break­away stato as a l'irst step to the establishnwnl ol' a con­l'odrration ol' lwo srparatn states. with tho Grn,ik and Turkish Cypriots living sPpa­rntely. 
MUTUAL FUNDS -"TRUST SfFIVICfS TUITION FINANCING 
Why is TIAA-CREF the #1 choice nationwide? 

Call us to~". 
. afree


The TIAA-CREF 

'.nformatio.n ..· . 
< package , 
,>)··J.:•,r-.-:­

Advantage. 


Wednesday, September 13, 2000 
The Observer . ELECT! 0 N 2000 page 7 

Skin cancer gives McCain new facial scar 
The Arizona Republican and chance of being cured.
Associated Press 
former Vietnam POW had McCain's first duty since the surgery last month tu remove a surgery as Senate Commerce WASJIINGTON cancerous tumor on his temple Committee chairman was hold­John McCain returned to the and several nearby lymph 
ing a hearing on the recall of Snnate spotlight Tuesday with nodfls. Tests found no evidence Firestone tires. The former a new facial scar. as a result of the cancer had spread. mean­GOP presidential candidate 
skin cancer surgery. ing McCain stands an excellent came to 

Fr. Pat Neary, C.S.C. Fr. Bill Miscamhle, C.S.C LaPorte, Indiana Brisbane, Australia 
The New Team at Moreau Seminary 
G'Day Mates! 
ANSWER~ 
THECALL W 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 
the hearing with a 
large bandage on his 
temple and a swollen 
scar trailing from 
there to his jaw line. 
where the lymph nodes 
were removed. 
McCain spokes­
woman Nancy Ives said 
the senator's doctors 
think he is healing 
nicely. 
"To have him looking so healthy following 5 1/2 hours of surgery, we are very. very pl1rnsed," Ives said. "We think he looks 
great.·· 
Skin cancer is most often caused by expo­sure to the sun. 
McCain. who had another tumor removed from his arm last month and one removed from a shoul­der in 1993, says he wears sunscreen, stays out of the sun as much as possible and gets checkups every three months. 
He opened the press conference. then retreated to the sbadr of a nearby tree, and left soon thereafter. 
"John's getting out of the sun, which he keeps telling me to do," said Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt. 
Lazio stays close in NY Senate race 
Associated Press 
ALBANY, N.Y. 
Two polls released Tuesday show Hillary Rodham Clinton and Republican Rick Lazio still locked in a tight Senate race after three months 
of campaign appearances, press releases and attack ads. 
A Marist College poll of 516 likely votPrs gave Clinton 50 percent and the 

Long Island con-Clinton gressman 47 percent. The margin of error was plus or minus 
4.5 points. In a Marist poll in June, they were tied at 42 percent. 
A Quinnipiac University poll of 803 voters gave Clinton 49 percent and Lazio 44 percent. The margin of error was plus or minus 3.5 points. In Quinnipiac's June poll. they were tied at 44 percent. 
The telephone surveys were con­ducted Sept. 5-10. 
The numbers come on the eve of the candidates' first debate, planned for Wednesday. beginning at 7 p.m. EDT. MSNBC plans to broadcast the debate nationally at 10 p.rn. EDT. 
THE FUTURE OF COMMUNICATIONS BEGINS WITH YOU. 


CLI~13 TT-f.E PY'RAMIV OF TT-f.ESUN 
FIND OUT MORE-ABOUT 
Notre Dame's International Study Program IN 
PUEBLA, MEXICO 
INFORMATION SESSION WITH ON-SITE DIRECTOR, PROFESSOR ALBERT LEMAY 
Wednesday, September 13, 2000 
4:45 PM 
207 DeBartolo 
CLEAR IDEAS~FOR YOUR _CAREER. 
At Tella~s, developing the'communications landscape of the future is more than just an ambition. It is something we do every day. Through, innovative technologies like dense w~.veleljgth-dh.'i$iori_ ._multiplexing, Voice:ey~r:IP }!).dSONET. ;,...;e'keep)<'.lc!fl, l9t1f,t9is~~nce, wireless, cable and Internet iervice providers on the cutting edge: If you are majoring in electrical or computer engineering,. ccimp11ter "'-' science or a related field, help us shape the• future o.f the.,..•. new pub'c network. 
• 
HARDWARE DEVELOPMENT AND TESTING.. •SOFTWAREDEVEL9PME~.i.,,,..,,. 

• 
SOFIWARE/SYSlIM INTEGRATION TESTING • ARMWARE DEVELOPMENT . . ... 

•
VlSI DESIGN ,... •RESEA'RCH 


Tellabs was recently ranked among FOFmJNE magazine'• '100 Best Companies to WOl!lf'i':~ America" 

Wednesday, September 13, 2000 
page 8 The Ohsm,er . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Dr. Hurd Then (in 1969) 
I 
I 
I 


"A BIRl)'S EYE VIEW OF OPHTHALMOL()GY: FROM MEMPHIS TO MADAGASCAR" 
1. Anatomy and pathophysiology of the human eye 
I 

2. Co1n1non eye diseases; new treatments and techniques! -age-related macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy, glaucoma, cataracts, 
optic neuropathy -LASIK (refractive surgery among professional athletes and the general population) 
3. Medical mission project-China, Mexico, Africa, South Africa, Brazil, Madagascar 
William C. Hurd Ophthalmologist, Memphis Tennessee Saturday, September 16, 2000 
9:00 a.m. -10:00 a.m. (Before Purdue game) Room 101 DeBartolo Hall 
Co-sponsored by Saint Joseph's Regional Medical Center, South Bend Campus and the Notre Dame Alumni Association 
Dr. Hurd Now 



•........... L .. ,..,n•• ¦·•···••·¦•· ••••.I I I 
Wednesday, September 13, 2000 The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 page 9 

Bush denies using subliminal messages in television ad 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The GOP ad decries bureau­crats but Oemocrnts see some­thing more subtle; rats. 
In a Republican National Committee ad thal has aired in several kev states. the word "rats" appfiars on sr,reen for a fleeting moment before the full word "burPaurrats" appears. Aides to Vice President Al Gore, the Democratic presidential candidate, made the point clear by giving a copy of a slowed­down version of the 30-second ad to The New York Times. whirh reported on it in Tuesday editions of the newspaper. 
Republican nominee George 
W. Bush dismissed the notion that Republicans were using subliminal advertising to aid him as "bizarre and ,veird accu­sations." 
On ABC's "Good Morning America," Bush said he first 
learned of the controversy Tuesday morning. Asked whether he would tell the Hepublican Party to pull the ad, he shook his head. 
"I don't think there's a plot to try to put subliminal messages into people's minds," Bush said. "The most important thing is to try to point out the differences hetwe(rn what r believe and what the vice president believes when it comes to important issues like prescription drugs." 

WEDDING RING 
Slightly different music 
(in case you're slightly different). 

P~RACANE "-. 1399)
1"i119s You Should Leave Alone ·---------.­
Join Replay: 
The club that rewords your love 



MEDI.PLAY" 
of entertainment~ 

Your Entertainment Superstore For the store nearest you, call toll-free 1·888-60-MEDIA. MediaPlay.comSM Cass:"!J!c~~~ 
Ask a$Sociofe for detail•. 

Sale ends September 23, 2000, Pricing may vary online, 824690 5053 
Gore aides told the Times that a Oemocrat in Seattle had spot-• ted the ad's seemingly sublimi­nal message and contacted county Democrats, who then alerted the Gore campaign. 
Gore campaign officials did not return tAlephone messages left by The ing TV. You're trying to get them interested and involved." 
Democrats are trying to make a case out of nothing, said Terry Holt, spokesman for Victory 2000, which represents the Bush campaign at the HNC. 
"The word bureaucrats ends 
with 'rats' 
Associated Press just like the 
on Monday "I don't think there's a w o r d night. plot to try to put Democrat," 
The ad touts he said. "rt
subliminal messages into
Bush's plan for is a spot adding prescrip­people's minds." about health tion drugs to care. It's not Medicare, argu­a spot about
George W. Bush
ing that seniors rodents."
presidential candidate
will have more The Bush 
control over campaign 
their health was equally 
care under Bush's proposal. dismissive. 
Under the Gore plan. the ad "It sounds like happy hour at 
says, the program will be run the Gore campaign lasted a lit­
bv bureaucrats. tle too long," said Bush 
· Words flash on the screen to spokesman Ari Fleischer. And, 
echo the announcer's message: referring decades-old buzz 
"The Gore prescription plan; about a Beatles song, he added: 
Bureaucrats decide." "If you play the ad backwards, 
As the announcer says you l~.~ar the words 'Paul is 
"Bureaucrats decide," the word dead. 
"rats," in large capital letters, Even if it was intentional, it flashes on and off the screen isn't necessarily effective. said just as the phrase "Bureaucrats Bill Benoit, who studies political decide." appears. advertising at the University of Republicans say they were Missouri. There's been only lim­
not trying to send any sublimi­ited research on "subliminal 
nal messages. perception." he said. 
"It's a silly charge to try and "There's no conclusive evi­
get an effective ad off the air," dence that it works," he said. 
said Alex Castellanos, who "Of course. that doesn't stop 
made the ad for the RNC. advertisers." 
He said he faded the word in If use of the word "rats" was 
so it would look more visually intentional. Benoit said it might 
interesting, and that it was just be inappropriate or question­
a coincidence that the letters able. though not necessarily 
appearing first spell the name unethical. 
of a rodent. Still, he cautioned: "It's awful­
"It's a visual drum beat," he ly hard to tell whether it's inten­
said. "People get bored watch-tional or not." 


page JO The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, September 13, 2000 
WALL STREET FORUM 
September 13, 2000 

Presentations specifically targeted to: 
Sophomore and Junior Business Students All Non-Business Majors 
These presentations will be in: Hesburgh Center-Across from the Mendoza College of Business RoomCl00 
3:00pm -6:00pm Overview & Practical Sessions 
Overview Of Investment Banking  William Blair  
Overview of Asset Management  Notre Dame Investment Office  
Overview ofTechnology in  
Financial Services  Morningstar  
Overview ofCommercial Banking  Fifth Third Bank  
Break  
Presentation & Writing Skills  Goldman Sachs  
Interviewing Skills  Salomon Smith Barney  
Presentations specifically targeted to:  

MBA Students & Senior Finance Students 
These presentations will be in: Jordan Auditorium 
3:00pm -6:00pm Overview & Practical Sessions 
Sales & Trading Lehman Brothers Corporate Finance and Mergers &. 
Acquisitions Credit Suisse First Boston Asset Management & Private Equity Fidelity Commercial Banking LaSalle Bank 
Break 
Interviewing Skills Merrill Lynch Middle Market vs. Bulge Bracket Investment Banks Robert W. Baird 

ALL STUDENTS 
6:00pm -8:00pm Individual Company Breakout Sessions 
Pizza & Beverages will be provided Business Attire 

--·--------------------------------------------------~------------------­
Wednesday, September 13, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 


Racial disparity found in federal death penalty :~ystem 
Associated Press 
WASHTNGTON 

A Justice Department study found wide racial and geo­graphic disparities in the fed­eral death penalty system. but Attorney General Janet Reno blamed them on injustice in sodetv rather than bias in her department. 
Heleasing the study Tuesday. Heno called for additional studies and legislation but rejected renewed calls for a moratorium on fednral execu­tions that poured in from Congress and civil rights advo­cates in response to the fig­urcs. 
President Clinton said the data raised questions "since we're supposed to have a uni­form law of the land." But he noted there had been "no sugges­tion, as far as I know. that any of the cases where the convictions occurred were wrongly decid­ed" and said he would consult Reno before deciding what to do. 

"At this point we are trou­bled by the figures. but we have not found the bias," Reno told a news conference. 
"Minorities are over-repre­sented in the federal death penalty system. as both vic­tims and defendants. relative to the general population," Heno said. "Crime is often the product of social ills and harsh conditions. such as poverty, drug abuse and lack of oppor­tunity, that disproportionately affect minorities. So long as those conditions remain, we will conlin ue to see disparities in the number of minorities in the criminal justice system.'' 
Deputy Attorney General 
-
-·-
®

-------·-..... ~ 
LATE TO THE NEW ECONOMY PARTY ­THE WORLD'S LARGEST STARTUP 
Jim Corgel General Manager -Net Generation Business IBM 
September 14th -4-Spm in Jordan Auditorium 
Come and hear how Jim Corgel, NDMBA '72, has led the world's largest startup. It's a great story ofcorporate entrepreneurship, culture transformation, hi-tech marketing, working with venture capitalists and business incubators, and the variety ofnew tactics required to market to startups and dot.corns. 
The MBA Marketing Club is holding a contest during the presentation for an entry fee of $5 (2!30 PM -3~45 PM at the door}. IBM wi~ pr~­sent a question and the person with the most correct answer will WID a brand new IBM ThinkPad T20 Pentium III (128/20} computer, donated by IBM. All proceeds benefit the Notre Dame MBA marketing chili. In 
the event of a tie a name will be drawn at random. 





bright fglUllsYLVANIA 
Eric Holder, the study's author and the nation's highest rank­ing black law enforcement officer, also saw no need for a moratorium such as the one imposed in Illinois in January by Gov. George Ryan, a Republican. 
Ryan was reacting to a peri­od when more Illinois inmates had their death sentences overturned than were execut­ed, Holder said. "That is not the case here in the federal system. The number of cases where we have actual claims of factual innocence are less than 1 percent." Those claims can be dealt with adequately through new presidential 
demency procedures, Reno 
and Holder said. 
But Sen. Bussell Feingold, 
O-Wis., renewed the demand that he and five other mem­bers of Congress made in June that Clinton postpone exe­cutions until a commission can study the issue. "All Americans 

OSRAM SYLVANIA is known around the world for innovative lighting solutions and quality products. Our dedication to a brighter future extends to your career, and we have exciting opportunities available for recent graduates who share in our commitment to excellence and quality. 
The projects are real -ENGINEERING, FINANCE, HUMAN RESOURCES, INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY, MANUFACTURING, and MARKETING. As a participant in OSRAM SYLVANIA 's Associate Development Program, you will be personally responsible for addressing and completing challenging assignments in our core businesses andfunctions. 
We're looking for people with exceptional academic and personal achievement, initiative and a willingness to relocate every eight months while putting their special talents to the test. Upon successful completion ofthe two year program, your skills 
OSRAM 1

and performance will be considered/or regular position openings in the company. 
SYLVAN/Al

Askyour career placement office for information about our on-campus,. recruiting opportunities orto learn more visit our web page at 
www.s vlvan,a.com 
not uniform during its first five years. 
The numbers did show. how­ever, that Justice Department recommendations for death sentences in federal cases ro.ighly reflected the racial percentages of defendants charged with capital crimes. 
Between 1995 and July of this year. U.S. attorneys for­warded for review the cases of 682 defendants who faced capital charges, of which 20 percent were white and 80 percent were minorities. U.S. attorneys recommended the death penalty be sought for 183 of them, 26 percent of them whites and 74 percent minorities. 
Reno approved seeking death penalties for 159 of them, of 
which 28
"All Americans agree 
percent were
that whether you die for 
for whites committing a Jedera l and 72 per­cent for
crime should not depend 
minorities.
arbitrarily on where 
All involved you live." murders. Ultimately during this
Russell Feingold 
period, 20 
senator 
defendants 
agree that whether you die for committing a federal crime should not depend arbitrarily on where vou live." 
Rep. Je;se Jackson Jr., D­ill., called for a moratorium rather than "business as usual." 
"If you're an African American in Texas who com­mits a crime that could war­rant the federal death penalty, you get it. If you're white in New York City, you probably don't. ... What is this. some form of natural selection? Death penalty Darwinism?" 
Reno imposed a new system in 1995 requiring U.S. attor­neys to get her approval for all death sentences after senior Justice officials reviewed each case. Neither she nor members of the review team are told the race of defendants, but defense attorneys sometimes tell them while arguing against the death penalty. 
Reno's goal was to achieve a more uniform system, but the report found the system was 

were sen­
tenced to death. of which 20 percent were white and 80 percent minorities. 
Geographically, only nine of the 94 U.S. attorney districts accounted for about 43 per­cent of the 183 defendants that prosecutors recommend­ed for the death penalty. They were Puerto Rico, the eastern district of Virginia, Maryland, the eastern and southern dis­tricts of l\rew York, western Missouri, New Mexico, west­ern Tennessee and northern Texas. 
And a total of 40 districts never recommended a death penalty. 
Although back on the books since 1988, the federal death penalty has not been carried out since 1963 because of appeals. 
The first of the resumed fed­eral death penalties is set for Dec. 12. In August. President Clinton delayed that execution so the defendant, convicted killer Juan Raul Garza. could use new procedures to appeal for clemency. 


eF'ightinglrish.eo 

The Marketplace 


VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 12 BSERVER Wednesday, September 13, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P0. Bnx Q. Noire D.,m•. IN 46'iS6 0.24 Sourh l>i11rng H.,11, Notre-Dame. IN 465)6 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EmTOR  8USINF.SS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Tun Lane  
Asn. MANAGING EDITOR  OrERATIONS MANAGER  
Christine Kr.1ly  Bri,111 Kcssle1  

NEWS EDITOR: 1\1111, Maflc Mattingly 
V1rwr0TN1' EDITOR: Lila Haughey SroRTS EDITOR: Kerry Smi1h 

SCENE EonoR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy 
PHOTO EDITOR: Elilaheth Lang 

ADVERTISING MANACFR: P:11 Peters 
AD O~~IGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunvillc WED AOMINISTIV.TOR: Adam Turner 
CONTROLLER: Bob Woods 
GRAPHIC.S EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 

CONTACT Us 
01Hcr: MANi\Grn/GENEIIAI. INFO............(,.l 1-7471 FAX............................................................6.~ 1-6927 AovrnTISING ................. ··••· .. ··••···••···GJ 1-690018840 
obscrver@darwin.cc.nd.cdu EmTOR IN Ct11EF.......................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/ASST. ME...................631-4541 !lUSINf:SS OFFICE.. .........63 I -53 !.> 
NEWS..... ........... ··········--···············......... , .. 631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIF.WPOINT ..... ......,., .......................... 631-5303 
observer.viewpoim. I@nd.edu SroRTS .....................................................631-4 543 ohserver.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.. ........ . ..........................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S .. .............................. 63 I -4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu l'IIOTO.. ............ ,.........................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WED ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visi1 our Wch site at hup:llobseroer.t1d.rd11 for daily updates ofcampus news, sports. features and opinion columns. a, wdl as cannons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Pres,. 
Sl/RF TO: 
w<'3dtcr for up-m-rlw  movies/music for  
111111 lllC lorccasts  weekly student reviews  
advertise for policies  onlinc: features for spe­ 
md rares of print ads  cial campus coverage  
archives ro search tor  about The Observer  
.midcs puhli,hcd alter  ro meer rhc editors and  
Aug11s1 1999  staff  

POLICIES 
l"hc Observer is rbc indepcndenr, daily newspaper published in prim and on line hy the srudenrs ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edirori,1I content. including advcniscmcnrs, is nm governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither insrirmion. The Observer reserves ,he right 10 refuse advertisements hased on comem. 
The news is reporred 35 accuratdy and ob;ecrivdy 35 possible. U nsigncd editorials represent the opinion of 1he m,1joriry of1he Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assisram M,111aging Edimr and department editors. C:ommem;iries. letters and columns present rhe views of 1he ,iurhors and not neccs.sarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vicwpo111t space is available cu all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. l.e11ers IO the Editor must be signed and m11sr include conrnc1 i11lor111at.io11. 
(~ucitiow r,g,mli11g Oh,er11,r policies sf,011/rl b,1/im·t­etl Iii J-."'di101·"' (.'/,irfMike Conno/(y. 
DILBERT 

Making decisions for a resume? 
If you ever want to know how to make time ny quickly by, I suggest writing a bi-weekly column. Each two weeks flies by and it is again Sunday and time~ to think of something fasci­nating to write 
about for the week. Marlayna 
If you ever want to Soenneker 
know how to make time go extremely 
Here We Go 
slowly, I suggest 
Again
becoming the pianist for your dorm mass. The hour-long mass will suddenly stretch to at least two weeks. J\s I do both of these things, my lifo is basically a suc­cession of two-week-long masses bro­ken only by frantic searches for col­umn topics. 
Column-writing and piano-playing are not actually the only two things I do. I also manage to squeeze in some classes. This has become more stress­ful as of late due to my little one cred­il psycholc1gy course called "Psychology: Science, Practice and Policy." 
Basically this class is about helping us psychology majors ligure out what we want to do with our psychology dogrees once we have earned them. For me, this seemed like rushing things a little, since I just recently decided that I wanted a psychology degree. I was still congratulating myself on making that decision. I wasn't planning to do any more deci­sion making for a couple more months. But all psych majors have to take this class, so I dutifully signed on. Three weeks in, [ am terrified. 
So far I have learned two things. First, if I thought getting into coll<'ge was a lot of work and stress, I was wrong. Apparnntly getting into grad 
school is a lot like winning the lottery -the odds are low, and while some­one has to win, it's not going to be you. However, worrisome as this is, this is not really what has me so frightened. 
The second thing I have learned has corrected another erroneous belief on my part. Prior to going to this class. I thought I was a person. I have recent­ly learned that I am not a person, but that I am a resume. My whole lifn will eventually be summed up onto one piece ol' paper with 12 point f"ont. I am no longer to aim to improve myself as a person, I am to aim to improve myself" as a resume. 
This concept bothers me. I am far morn than a piece of paper, and I have always felt that the most impor­tant part of being good at anything is to be a good person. I am thinking seriously about taking theology as second major, and I truly believe that theology will make me a better thera­pist by making me a better person in general. But a theology degree won't look that impressive on a psychology resume. 
This resume idea also raises the question of whether service done for selfish reasons is really service at all. I have often been told that service is important for my resume. The other day my roommate and I were trying to find a time when I could do a service project, and I said that none of the projects really looked that interesting to me. She asked me why I wanted lo do one then, and I said because it would look good on my resume. 
Is that still service? ls something done only in service of selfishness and resume building still a good deed? 
Jesus would say no. IIn would say 
what Im said of tlrn Pharisees, that if 
you do good works l'or tlw praise of 
men, then that alorw shall be your 
reward. 
I guess tlrn real reason this class terrifies me isn't that it makes mn worry I won't get into grad school or that I don't know what to do with my degree. It fright<1ns mn lwcause it gives me a vision of the sort of person I may have to beconrn in ordnr to do what I want to do. 
It raises somn vPry important ques­tions: is what I think I want to do worth becoming nothing morn than thr. sum total of what I can put on my rcsun1<\" Which is more important ­my resum6 or my character'! Which is more important -Ir.Hers of recom­mendation from my professors. or the letters of' rncommcndation that Goel puts into each of us in tlw form of a big heart, a loving disposition and a genuine conc<irn for others'? 
I know which of these things gradu­ate schools mnphasizc, and I worry that I too will begin to think that thosP arc the things that arc rnally impor­tant. When I finally get to tlrn point where I am trained to help people, will I still be motivalt1d by genuine concern for them or will it all be about the resume or tlrn money'? Because I never want to be that sort of person. I would ratlrnr s1)<md tlrn rest of my life working at tlrn dining hall. 
Marlayna Soenneker is a sophomore psychology major. 
The uiews expressed in t.his column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those <f The Ohsenwr. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 


LOOKS LIKE
I GET A TINY 
SOMEONE HAS AN
FEELING OF 
''.4n optimist is someone who thinks the 
E-MAIL MONKEY

$ELF-WORTH 
ON HIS 
future is certain." 

WHEN I SEND 
I CAN QUIT
BACK.

E-MAIL TO MY 
WHENEVER 
Anonymous
BOS$. 
0 
_t;i_ 
"'

---------Iri.111:.i::.:aa......-~ ......____,.J.I._,__.,
0-_..i.._____ 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, September 13, 2000 
Studying humanity 
I ha;P a name for my column. And it's a true statemont. You may not agrnn with nm yet, but I promise you life really is "All About Anthropology." I can even toll you why. 
Anthropology is about peoplP and rnlture. That is, people and cul­turn plus a lrnalthy blend of biology, nature, history and geography ... csstrntially cvnry field or study is involved. The hlnndiI1g of fiPlds is nssi:ntial. ,\nthropology is Brittany studying what most fasrinates humans and most Morehouse particularly Anrnrican humans: themselves. ,'\ntl1ropology attmnpts to figure out cxactly what 
All About

it is that makl's us all human -you know, the old 
Anthropology

naturc VPrsus nurture argument. 
Tlw Observer printnd a column written by Duke Univnrsity's K<win Prid<' on Thursday. August 31, 2000. fn his com­nrnntarv cm the show "Survivor," Pride concludes that, "In the end, tlw rnal struggle was surviving the unpredictable social climate that cxisls among human beings and is tho product of human nature." According to Pride. human nature is such that "whenfar-~emove_d from civilization, poopln will still hurt one anotlrnr, will still conmvc and der.oivn, all for the sak<) of grned." 
Ilobbcsian theory rnvisitf'd. Are you really sure of that, Pride? After all. as Nolrc' Dame anthropology professor Carolyn Nordstrom will tell vou, "rnsc'ard1 suggests that for 90 percent of human history thcr.(i was virtually no war." Sonwtimes people act renexively ar,cord­ing to what th,·y havfl bnen told arc their "natural human instincts" 
(a.k.a. violl'nni) rather than reacting on true instincts. 
Anthropology is about divnrsity. It is neither the melting pot nor the salad bowl; it is an interesting mixture of both. Even the classes are divPrsc. This !'all's course selections offer studies on the anthropology of art. the anthropology of' war and peace, ethnicity in America, .lapannse socinty, the social demography of minoritie?, _the arch_a~olo­gy of' death, infancy or fwen the cultural aspects of cl1mcal rned1cme. 
Anthropology is about bning open-minded; it is about trying on as many penpl<''s sho!'s as you can in a lifetime in order to understand various perspnctivcs. The anthropological posture is to accept and appreciat<' difTl'n'nces and. at the same time, to learn more about the roots and explanations of those differences. 
Anthropology is about thinking internationally; it is about _going the global rout<'. It involves traveling. learning languages. meetmg new fac•~s and living in new places. It's about examining diverse religions, llichnology, forms of medicine and traditions. It is discovering how humans fit into thn global picturn that is so increasingly important now that wn ani in thP 21st century. 
Anthropology is international, yes ... but at the same time, it is per­sonal. It is based only upon personal experience. The anthropologist conducts his nr her ethnological work in what is known to be a "high­ly situated" context. In other words, explains Notre Dame anthropolo­gv profPssor Victoria Sanford. one takes into account the factors of o;w•s spnci!ic position such as age, gender and religion as well as the factors of the subject one is studying. 
Anthrnpology is about participation and inclusion. Nothing is ulti­mat('ly objectivn so you must take into account the position of the obs1\rvcr when you am talking about the observed. . 
Anthropology is about specialization, but there exist no hicrarch~cs within the discipline. Thnre is no single area of anthropology that is guarantePd lo offer more money to those who study it than any other arP,L Difforent -but equal. 
Abov<' all, anthropology puts us in our proper place. We are one splash of' color on one tiny puzzle piece in the giant puzzle that is the world. Tim individual's lifn span is but a blink of history's eye. 
I darP you to take an anthropology class and try to dislike it. It's impossil;ln. I challenge you to get to know a professor in the anthro­pology clnparlmPnt and not be significantly influenced in your thoughts and actions. I would bet Regis a million that he couldn't find onn anthropology major who is a prejudiced person. And he can sit in t.lw student snction to interview them if he wants. One of my favorite quotes is from a llatlmark card my mother found and framed for my inspiration. It reads,"Thosc who hear not the music, think the dancers mad." 
W1\ll, to my way ofthinking, music is the world and dancing is life. In the study of anthropology, whether or not you undorstand the notos you never stop listening for the music and you pay close atten­tion to Pvcry dancer. Tim journey through life is intense and intensely rewarding to those who live this way. 
EV!'n the most cautious, cynical and unconvinced reader will under­stand morn about why "It's All About Anthropology" as my column continuns in wHeks to comr,. 
/Jrillany Morehouse is a senior majoring in American Studies and anthropology. She thinks Susan Tilton is the coolrst mzungo and pro­.frssors like Jim Bellis should haue access to a go(( cart at all times. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
O
THE 
BSERVER page 13 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Stereotype leads to negative views; 
We would like to share an incident that happened to us this past Wednesday after­noon while walking from Lafortune after picking up some groceries for a club event. On our way to the Library Circle to catch the shuttle back to Saint Mary's, we encoun­tered two students talking on the green. As we passed them. we heard the male student make an insulting generalization to his com­panion about the students at Saint Mary's College. Here is a close approximation: "I could tell by the clothes they were wearing they were from Saint Mary's." After hearing this remark, we exchanged a glance of astonished disgust and continued to walk away from the two students. We stopped some feet away to discuss what had hap­pened. Though we were angry -one of us was ready to shove her ice cream cone in his face -we decided that that particular response was too drastic. 
rinally, we decided that we could not pas­sively leave after hearing such an insulting comment. We walked back and introduced ourselves as Saint Mary's students. We explained that we had overheard the remark he had made concerning the stu­dents at Saint Mary's. The male student instantly groaned in embarrassment, apolo­gized and explained why he had made that comment. Apparently a group of drunken Saint Mary's women had attended a party in his hall last weekend and one of them threw up in his friends' room. 
We agreed that such behavior is inappro­priate on any occasion, however this group of students was one of many such groups from all three schools partying on the first football weekend. We then explained to the two students that the majority of Saint Mary's women did not fit. the stereotype he had used. He further apologized for the ignorant comment and said that he had never met Saint Mary's women outside of the party scene. We parted amicably with the pair and ran to catch the shuttle. 
Sadly, the generalization used by this stu­dent is a very common stereotype. Though women from all three schools attend parties and occasionally drink to excess, the women of Saint Mary's are often singled out and looked down upon for supposed looseness. Obviously these stereotypes are highly insulting and far from the truth. Unfortunately, they remain because of the limited exposure that some students at Notre Dame and Holy Cross have to the women of Saint Mary's College. 
To the women and men of Saint Mary's College, the University of Notre Dame and Holy Cross College: Respect yourselves and your fellow students. Stop making assump­tions based upon a few bad weekend expe­riences and popular myth. We invite all the students of Notre Dame and Holy Cross to come and visit us at Saint Mary's. Discover for yoursfllf that we do not fit the stereo­type. Walk around our campus and talk to some Belles! Study at our library! Come and eat at our dining hall! We would love to show you what Saint Mary's is truly like. We are proud of our school and we would love for you to see it in a new light. Go Belles! 
Asra Ashraf and Erin Schenz 
juniors Regina Hall September 11, 2000 


AP ENTERTAINMENT BRIEFS 

AP Photo 

John F. KennedyhJr., and his wife, Carolyn Bessette Kennedy,before their deat in July 1999. 
JFK, Jr. plane sells for $120 K 
CALDWELL, N.J. 

The tragedies that have befallen the Kennedy family may have helped keep down bids on the first airplane owned by John F. Kennedy, Jr. 
Auctioneers on Saturday opened bidding for the 1977 Cessna 182Q Skylane at $300,000, but the plane eventually sold for only $120,000 to an Oklahoma car dealer, The New York Times reported Monday. 
Tim auctioneer said one bidder told him that his wife didn't want him to buy it because of the Kennedy family history. Kennedy died last year when his single-engine plane crashed off Martha's Vineyard with his wife and sister-in-law on board. The auctiorrnd plane was owned by Kennedy from April 1998 to May 1999. 
NBC planning space reality series 
NEW YORK NBC is hoping for a ratings liftoff from "Survivor" mastermind Mark Bunwtt. 
Tlw network has agreed to pay 1rnarly $40 million for the rights to Burnett's "Destination Mir," a reality series that would launch an Pveryday American into space for a rendezvous with the Hussian-space station Mir, according to Tuesday's Daily Variety. 
The series would follow a group of would-be cosmonauts from space camp to launch pad over l3 to 15 episodes, culminating with a dramatic live broadcast in which a winner is picked and sent into space. 
The $35 million-to-$40 million price tag includes the nearly $20 million Burnett will pay to MirCorp, a Russian company that has leased the use of the space station from RSC Energia, the private firm which now controls what was once the Soviet space pro­gram, Daily Variety reports. 
NBC hasn't scheduled the series yet. Daily Variety said, although it quoted the network's entnrtainment president Garth /\nci1!r as aiming for a foll 2001 premiere, with the actual launch into space taking place by early 2002. 
Tim series would follow the contestants through space boot camp, with one participant eliminated every week by Hussian space officials. The live, two-hour conclusion would gather sever­al finalists !111 a launch pad, where the winner would be announced and th!m climb aboard a Soyuz space capsule for the 10-day round trip. 
Burrmtt. who cooked up the series. gave CBS sky-high ratings this sumnrnr wilh his 13-episode "Survivor," in which 16 volun­lfwr castaways were marooned on a tropical isle. where they com1mtm! on camera for a $1 million prize. 
TV artifacts to be auctioned 
EAGLE. Wis. 

Tlw eyrpiern worn by Col. Klink on "llogan's Heroes" and the suspnndnrs used to bold up Chestnr's pants on "Cunsmoke" am among llw pop culture artifacts going on the auction block next wt>nk. 
Tlw items arP left ovet from a long-defunct travding museum nm by the latt• llnlen and William Howell. 
Tim couple crisscrossed the country during the 1960s, showing off the iterns at fairs and fostivals. Tlrny persuaded Hollywood stars to donat1• items of interest by promising to use them in sup­port of' charities. 
/\fter llclen Howell died tw~ years ago. heirs inherited 10 trunks of celebrity artifacts. "We talked about opening a display of' our own," daughter-in­law Rebecca Rowell said. "But we all have other jobs." The Ilouse in the Woods Auction Gallery in Eagle will conduct the auction. 
King keeps the guitar blues alive as he hits 75 
By PATRICK CASEY 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 
B.B. King has just opened a new nightclub in New York City's Times Square. He and Eric Clapton are riding the wave of a hot, new album, and last Pebruary, he won yet another Grammy Award. 
Oh, and King's 75th birthday is Saturday. 
That and more than 200 concert dates a year is all part of what makes the legendary gui­tarist "the king of the blues." 
"Nnthing is really driving me. I am doing what I like to do," King said in a recent tele­phone interview. "Playing the blues is one part or i!; I like meeting pMple, entertaining peo­ple. 
King has been doing just that from the time he discovered the guitar as a youngster at the Holiness Church in Kilmicheal. Miss. 
It was there that King met the Rev. Archie Fair, a preacher who directed his flock by playing guitar. He taught the eager youngster how to play a few licks. 
"He was the one who motivated me to be a musician," King said. "I wanted to play the gui­tar like he did." 
As a young man, King played blues and gospel music on the streets of towns in Mississippi and Tennessee, and in the late 1940s, hooked up with bluesman Sonny Boy Williamson, who had a show on a Memphis, Tenn., radio station. 
Williamson eventually gave King some air­time and set up the musician with one of his first gigs. 
"He was one of the first to help me in the business," King said. "He's a great person." 
King went on to record dozens of albums over the ensuing decades. His signature songs include "Sweet Sixteen" and "The Thrill Is Gone," which he wrote after the breakup of his second marriage in 1966. 
"Riding With the King" (Duck/Reprise), King's collaboration with Clapton, debuted at No. 3 on The Billboard 200 in June and already has been certified platinum. King calls the album -the musicians' first despite a friendship that began in the 1960s -his best ever. 
"I think we did some good work," he said. "This one has gone further and done better than anything else we have done, so I think it would be the best." 
It was Clapton, said King, who "picked the songs, picked the studio and the cover of the CD. He is a genius. He is a very remarkable young man." 
King was inducted into the Blues Hall of Fame in 1984. Three years later, he earned a Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award. Ile is also a member of the Songwriters Ilall of' rame. 
lh~ demurs when asked if tlrnrn is anyone new on the music scene that he would like to play with. 
"I can answer your question better if you ask me who I would not like to play with," he said. "I can't think of anybody. It don't all have to be blues people. It's people. I like to play with people. I like music. 1 think I have played with .John Lee Hooker to Pavarotti. I like to play with people." 
The blues legend also likes tho Internet, a medium he thinks will provo beneficial to musicians despite the technology bomb that Napster rnccntly dropped on the recording industry. 
"It is a good way to promol!-1 your music, but copyright and things of that sort are something that will have to be worked out and they will be worked out," King said. 
"l remember when they didn't want you to have a VCR, but they worked it out and I think for the best. Smart people always get together and work it out." 
King knows the blues of 2000 are not the same as the songs he learned as a sharecrop­per's son in Mississippi. but he's conlid1mt tlrn genre is moving in a good direction. 
"You've got the young pnople today and they got their ideas about music, blues, whatever. They not only have their ideas about it, they arc playing it and supporting it," he said. "It has evolved quite a bit from when I was a kid to now." 
King says he's evolved as well. 
"I think I have gottr.n better. 1 know I have tried to get better," he said. "I see things a lot different today at 74 than I did when I was 14. For one thing, wisdom comes with age. Don't ytiu think so?" 
King says he's unsure what the blues will be like 20 years from now. "But I am very opti­mistic about the way it is going." 
"It is more popular today than it ever was since I have been trying to play it, so that gives me reason to be optimistic," he said. "l am hoping that one day you can turn on your radio and you won't be segregated with the music. You will be able to get some of' all kinds." 
/\nd B.B.? What about you? "I am not doing too bad f'or a 74-year-old," King said. 

AP Photo Blues legend B.B. King celebrates his latest album "Riding With the King" by entertaining the crowd with his signature style. 


Wednesday, September 13, 2000 page 15 
London players return with "As You Like It" 

"\Y/e insist on the simplici­ty...words, actors, theatrical space, audience, evervone p1aying. _In the simplicity lies the magic...we do not seduce you witb an operatic spectacu­lar. We do not confine you or Shakespeare in the tiny world of a d1reccor's or a designer'sconcept." 
mission ofthe Actors From The London Stage 

• 
The five actors from the London Stage -Lolita Chakrabarti, Jennifer Luckraft, Guy Burgess, Ken Drury and Richard Howard -rehearse scenes from "As You Like It," showing this weekend at Washington Hall Theater. 
Photos by: 
TONY FLOYD 


Acting Bard troupe calls Notre Dame their home 
By LAUREN CONTI Scene Writer 
Notre Dame recently became the American home for the international acting company, Actors From the London Stage (AFTLS). 
The company, whose overseas home is with the Hoyal Shakespeare Company in London. tours North America twice yearly --each time with a different cast of five diverse and talented thes­pians. The goal of the actors is to perform and teach Shakespeare to students across the rnuntrv. 
Pormerlv housed at • the University· of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, the troupe began looking for a new American base when they learned UNC would no longer offer an adequate level of financial support. 
Fortunately, their search was hrief. Notre Dame was, in the words of AFTLS general manager Kate Egerton, "a logical choice _, the University and the Actors From the London Stage have a long-standing relationship. " 
In fact, troupes from AFTLS 
times since 1990, performing Shakespeare's "As You Like It," "Hamlet," "Macbeth," "A Midsummer Night's Dream" and "All's Well That Ends Well. " 
Performing, however, is not the sole mission of AFTLS. "It's a week of teaching, and performing is just one method of that teach­ing. That's why it works so well in a university setting, " said Tom Barkes, general manager of Washington Hall Theater. 
At each stop along their North American tour, members of the company will give mini-work­shops in English and performing arts classes. This fall at Notre !Jame, the cast members hope to instruct students in several litera­ture and acting classes. 
"I1.'s practical Shakespeare, " said Lolita Chakrabarti, a troupe member, of ihe class initiative. "We're getting right in there with them and playing it. ·• 
The company's addition to the College of Arts and Letters comes as the crux of a newly implement­ed program known as "The Shakespeare Initiative. " 
Other elements of the program will include the Summer series and the addition of a new professor to fill an endowed chair in Shakespeare and performance. This chairperson will, in turn, 
become the direc­tor of the AFTLS program. 
"Currently, a cen­ter for theater edu­cation and research is not present at Notre Dame, " said Egerton. "The AFTLS program, a deft merging of performance and teaching, will serve as a traveling
ambassador for the University's grow­ing program in per­formance arts. " These combined factors indicate the beginning of a sta­ble and long-lasting 
"As You Like It" 
. 
Presented by the Actors From The London Stage 

. 
Where: Washington Hall Theater 

. 
When: Thursday, Friday and Saturday, 7:30 p.m. 


Tickets: Tickets currently on sale at the Lafortune Box Office or by phone at 
(219) 631-8128 
Cost: $16 general admission, $14 for seniors, $12 for students 
need to go from one charac­ter to another onstage, it's really made it quite dynam­
ic. It adds to the comedy." 
"As You Like It" tells the story of Rosalind, a head­strong young woman who is banished from her uncle's court. 
She disguises herself as a boy and follows her love Orlando into the Forest of Arden. Orlando, in turn, has (led to the forest in an effort to escape his abusive elder brother. 
Orlando and Rosalind, in 
partnership between the UnivPrsitv and AFTLS. "We're excited, " ; ...id Barkes, "Hopefully this will be a long and fruitful partnership. " 
"We are absolutely here to stay, "said Egerton. 
Shakespearean classic transformed in minimalistic style 
Washington Hall Theater welcomes the Actors From The London Stage for their sixth appear­ance on campus Thursday night. 
The company will be performing Shakespeare's well-known com,sdy "As You Like It" on Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights at 7:30 p.m. 

Lauren Conti ­
Audience members can Pxpcct to see the same dis­tinctively minimalist style that has become known as 
Scene Writer 
the AFTLS hallmark. 
In the show's program, AFTLS founder Honier Swander quotes the mission of the troupe, "We insist on the simplicity...words, actors, theatri­cal space, audience, everyone playing. In the simplicity lies the magic...we do not seduce you with an operatic spectacular. We do not confine you or Shakespeare in the tiny world of a direc­tor's or a designer's concept." 
On the· stage, a large box is marked off in white tape. Scenes are conducted inside the box, or "onstage" -additional scenery is nonexistent. Any area of the stage outside the white tape is considered "back;;tage", and view­ers will see the five cast members resting, drinking water and changing costumes in preparation for their next scene. 
Costumes may not be typical of the luxurious Elizabethan dress an audience expects to see. Since the five actors -Lolita Chakrabarti, Jennifer Luckraft, Guy Burgess, Ken Drury and Richard Howard -will be taking on 20-plus roles, character and custume changes often must occur in a matter of seconds -sometimes even mid-scene. 
"Things as simple as a pipe, or a hat, can be used to indicate that we are playing a different character," said Chakrabarti. 
"There is a convention you have to accept," said Tom Barkes, manager of Washington Hall Theater about the distinctive style. "But once you have, it's really delightful ... you get a true sense of what it means to be an actor." 
Those who saw last year's AFTLS production of "All's Well That Ends Well" may recall some unique onstage situations resrnlting from so few actors playing so many different characters. Sometimes one actor will be playing two char­acters in conversation with each other. 
AFTLS general manager Kate Egerton high­lights a scene in "As You Like It" where " ... Guy (Burgess) will be playing Orlando and Charles the Wrestler at the same time -look for him to actually fight himself." 
Cast member Jennifer 
Luckraft said, "When you 

-
the company of her cousin Celia and the court jester Touchstone, proceed to 
bumble their way through a humorous plot full of cases of mistaken identity and mischief. 
Tickets are currently on sale a! the LaFortune Box Office or by phone at (219) 631-8128. Cost is $16, discounted to $14 for seniors and $12 for students. 

have visited the University five Shakespeare Festival, a lecture 

page !6 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 13, 2000 
NHL 

Sedin twins start 
-
summer training 
A,.o<:iJtcd Press 

STOCKIJ()LM, Sweden 
Summer moans vacation for most horkry players. Nol lhe Sr.din twins. Tht> Swedes start­<' d practir(' before the V,rncollVl~r Canucks training camp. 
DaniPl and Ih'nrik Sedin, th" Can ucks' f"trst and sncond picks in tlw I 9'J9 Nlll Entry Draft. spent the summer working out virtually cv(~ry day. A spcr.ialist. helped them set up a dryland schedule in their northern Swi>dish homrtown of Ornskold:;vik Lhal included 11 
-wer.kly sessions since f1arly June. 
"We had many tough ses­sions. but I l'clt good all the time." llenrik Sndin said. "I gained four kilograms and my rurn1nt wPight is 93 (kilo­grams)." 
Important extra weight when facing lrnrd-chccking defensn­mnn as rookies in the NIIL. 
Tho 19-vear-old twins also spent sove~al hours on ice with other Swedish NIILers. includ­ing Pr.ter Forsberg of the 
-
Colorado Avalanche. They also played one exhibition game beforr the Canucks arrived in Stockholm last week to open a l<l-day training camp in the Swedish capita.I. 
In thP first NIIL preseason game, the Can uc:ks face the Sedin twins' old club. MoDo of Ornskoldsvik, in Wednesday's opener ol' the American Airlines Nill. Challfrnge at Stockholm's Globe Arena. 
A decade ago, the Montreal Canadiens cam<' to the same arnna with virtually no ice time to play i\lK. one of Sweden's top dubs. Like MoDo. the AlK players had been on ice for a month. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
It made no difference as tho Canadicns routed the Swedes 7-1. getting two goals apiece from Stephan!>. Richer and Stephan Lebeau. in their first game outside North America. 
Dan.iel SPdin doesn't expect such a one-sided game this time. 
"! don't think it will be an easy game for us. but it will be a lot of' fun facing my old team­mates," he said. 
Canucks coach Marc Crawf'ord, who coached Forsberg during his first sea­son with the old Quebec Nordiques that ended with Rookie of the Year honors for the Swede. isn't worried about the twins adjusting to life in the NIIL. 
"I have a sense that these guys will become players whether we do anything special with them or not," he said. "They're smart. intPlligent kids and they're very driven. I think they'll pick it up rather quick­ly." 
The larger European ice sur­face could be a disadvantage for the Canucks. But both tour­nament games involving the Can ucks will be officiated by Nill. referees and linesmen and their games will be played in accordance with NI-IL rules and regulations 
The Canucks have been over­seas only once before in their franchise history. The team traveled to Japan in 1997 where they made Nl!L history with the Anaheim Mighty Ducks while playing the first regular season game outside North America. 
The history of NHL clubs traveling overseas dates back 40 years In May 1959, the Boston Bruins and the New York Rangers became the !irst NHL teams to tour Europe. 
NASCAR 

Gordon appeals NASCAR sanction 
Associated Press 
DAYTONA BEACII. fla. 
Gordon and his Hendrick 
Motorsports team are appeal­
ing NASCAR's sanctions over 
an engine part used in his 
Saturday night vic:tory in 
Richmond, Va. 
On Tuesday. Hobbie Loomis, crew chief for the Nu. 24 Chevrolet, was fined $25.000 for using a part that has nut been approved by NASCAtt.. The sanctioning body also took away 100 of' the total of 180 points Ciordon earned with the victory both from the driver stand­ings and from Rick Hendrick in the owner standings. 
"It just upsets me because this leam worked hard for that win in Richmond and I believe these allegations that we cheated will undeservedly overshadow that victory," Gordon said. 
NASCAR found the irregu­larity during a postrace inspection Saturday nighl at Hichmond International Raceway. 
"The General Motors intake manifold that the No. 24 team used during Saturday night's race in Richmond has not been approved," said Mike !Ielton. NASCAR's senior vice pnisidcnt and chief operating omcer. 
"The GM part number on the casting was thn samo, however, a dif'fcront rnatcrial was used. which altNr.d thi, properties of the casting. The changed casting was not resubmitted by GM for NASCAR's approval in accor• dance with our procedurns." 
Rick Ilondrick issued a statement Tuesday saying thr. team has notified NASCAH that it will appeal the penal­ty. 
"Not only do we t'or,I a full hearing on the facts will 

exonerate our team from any intentional wrongdoing. hut it will removr, any cloud of sus­picion cast ovr,r a great victo­ry," Hendrick said. 
"We wflre under Lhn impression NASCAH officials have been aware of' Lim use of' magnesium in intake mani­folds for snveral months and had indicted to CM that it was approved as long as thl' part was not allernd in any other way. 
"Thnrp, was no attnmpt to conceal tlrn part, which W!~ have bl'Pn running sine,, April. It also passod postrau' inspnction in Charlott!' for two of' our cars." 
Doug Duchardt. (iM's group manager f'or NASCi\ll. also issued a statemont dnf'cnding tht1 use of' the manifold. 
"Wf' suppli<~d thnsP magnn­sium intako manifolds to our teams in Urn cl!~1u· belief that they arn allownd under th1'. rules," Duchardt said. 
Waltrip will drive for Earnhardt 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. 
Michael Waltrip will drive for Dale Earnhardt Inc. next season, becoming the third car in The lntimidator's garage. 
A source close to Earnhardt. who spoke Tuesday to The Associated Press on r.ondition of anonymity, said Waltrip will join Dale Earnhardt Jr. and Steve Park. 
A formal announcement was expected Wednesday. Earnhardt and Waltrip were not immediately available l'or comment. 
Waltrip, younger brother of' three-time Winston Cup 
champion Darrell Waltrip. now drives for Ultra Motorsports. 
He had been rumornd earli­er this year to bo a candidate for Earnhardt 's oxpansion efforts, but signed a one-year contact extension with Ultra Motorsports owner Jim Smith in July. 
"I don't think that I've ever had the perfect opportunity yet, but this appears to bn it for me," Waltrip said after signing the contract extension. 
Waltrip. in his 15th season, is 28th in the standings. He's never placed in the top 10 in the final standings, but has only finished outside the top 20 twice. He has one top-live finish this year and onn top­

Hl. 

Earnhardt. meanwhile. has shown this season he can b1\ a car owner and driv11r at llw same time. 
The seven-time Winston Cup champion, who driV(\S his Chevrolet Mont<\ Carlo l'or Richard Childress !lacing, is in the hunt l'or an eighth titlP. With nin1\ racns to go this sea­son hn's sorond in the stand­ings. 1:18 points behind Bobby Labont<'. 
As a car owner. h!\'s got three victori!is this season. 
Earnhardt Jr., 14th in tlw standings. has two wins and is fighting Matt Kenseth l'or rookie ol' the ye,i.r honors. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business dar from 8 a.m. ro -~ \1.111. ,11 the None Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al cl.tssifJcds rnusr bl' prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right ro edit all classifieds for rnntent without issuing refunds. 

Need GA·s: 4 Stanford, 2AF, 2BC  Female seeking female roommate.  looking for 10 enterprising students  BEWARE BANANAS -tuberculosis  
Chris 634-4751  285 mo. Incl utilities & cable. No  for part time computer work .. 1­ is on the rise1!!!!  
TICKETS  Beeley.1 @nd edu  pets, parties, or drugs. 289-7129  888-304-0414 Lv. Msg.  NOTICES  Hey K -the moon is such a nice,  
Football Tickets For Sale:  2 people needed to provide  quiet place. Why aren't we  
WANTED  ( Reserved Seating)  TWO (2) ROOMS IN MARRIOTT  dependable child care for church  SKYDIVE!!  there???  
- ND FOOTBALL TKTS  2 for Purdue; 2 for Standford  COURTYARD MOTEL IN SOUTH  Bible study. Thursday ams 9-10:30.  Training Students for 35 Years  
289-9280  Call (513)-604-4877  BEND AVAILABLE FOR PURDUE  Own transportation preferred but  1 Hour North of South Bend  Stimpy · Mr. Rabbit attacked again  
WEEKEND.  will discuss. $15/person. Julie  GREAT LAKES SKYDIVERS, INC.  last night! Ralph Is still trying to  
2 PU GA TIX FOR SALE  CALL K. McCANN AT  44746.  1-800-351-6617  recover!  
SELLING  CALL SEAN 634-1454  1-415-646-7535  
ND FOOTBALL TKTS  EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP­ I can't wait until Fall Break ­ 
251-1570  FOR RENT  WANTED  MENT CENTER PAID & VOLUN­TEER OPPORTUNlTIES  FOR SALE  Vegas. baby'!!  
Earn money and build resume  should I be counting down the days  
VICTORY TKTS  experience whle interacting with  to vegas already?  
BUY'SELL 'TRADE  B&B lodging in alumm home for ND  SPRINGBREAK 2001  delightful young children. The Early  87 Honda Civic 4dr sedan, manual,  
NO FOOTBALL  games. (219) 243-2628 or  Hiring On-Campus Reps  Childhood Development Centers at  174k. Near flawless condition.  probably not, huh?  
232-0964  garyb@mvlllage.com  SELL TRIPS. EARN CASH, GO  Saint Mary's College and !he  $2800.44746  
www.victorytickets.com  FREE!!!  University of Notre Dame are cur- oh well.  
ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE  Student Travel Services  rently accepting applications from  SPENDING TOO MUCH$ ON  
AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS  Amenca's #1 Student Tour  college students for part time  BEER? High quality kegerator.  pop quiz: you live off campus. Does  
BUY/SELL ND TICKETS  http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/  Operator  employment positions. At ECDC- Bought in '98 tor 1k. Asking $600  your old rector have the right to  
273-3911  email:mmmrentals@aol.com  Jamaica, Mexico. Bahamas.  ND, the two openings are for TTh  (can be split amongst roommates &  meddle in your life? A) yes. he/she  
232-2595  Europe, Florida  7:30-8:30 a.m and TTh 11 :15 a.m.  later resold to underclassmen)  is forever bonded to you; or B} no  
ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED  1-800-648-4849  · 1:30 p.m. At ECDC-SMC, the  312-952-2540 leave v-mail  way, rector needs lo move on.  
A.M. ­ 232·2378  That Pretty Place, Bed and  www.gospringbreak.com  opening is for F 12:30-1 :30 p.m.  
P.M. -288-2726  Breaklast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths.  WINTER BREAK/SPRING BREAK Ski & Beach trips on sale now!  please contact Kari Alford, Program Diretor at ECDC-SMC, at 284-4694. or Thayer Kramer, Program  LOST & FOUND  HI KRISTIN KROUSE! hey zacky, you are by far a  
ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE  $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles  www.sunchase.com or call  Director at SCDC-ND, at 631-3344,  fabulous brother  
A.M. -232-2378  from campus.  1-800-SUNCHASE  for more information and an appfi- LOST IN EITHER LAFORTUNE OR  
P.M. -288-2726  Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418·  TODAY!  cation. The Early Childhood  NOH: wallet with credit cards and  here's a shout out to room 303  
9487.  Development Centers are also look- identification. If found, call Lon  alumni -you guys rock!  
SOCCER & VOLLEYBALL REFER­ ing for volunteers who enjoy young  x3B74 -REWARD IF FOUND  
I have 5 bedrooms for rent in my  EES needed for south side elemen­ children. If you would be itnerested  it is way too early in the morning to  
BUY/SELL N.D. FOOTBALL TIX.  nicely-decorated private home for  tary school,  in spending 2 hours a week reading  be thinking of classifieds  
HOME & AWAY. (2191289-8048  Football weekends: less than 2 miles north of stadium. continental  located near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street.  children's books, building With blocks, and singing songs with chil- PERSONAL  
NO STUDENT CONVERSION TIX  brkfst included.  $20.00 per soccer game; $16.00  dren. please contact ECDC·ND at  to all of you reading this. i suggest  
NEEDED  Many happy repeat customers! Call  per VB match to qualified refs.  631-3344 or ECDC-SMC at 284­ •t don't drink, but I have no problem  that you stop wasting my time and  
Kim 277-8340.  Call 291-4200  4693.  taking advantage of girls that do."  send the Observer classifieds  

Wednesday, September 13, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Griffey plans to return to Reds 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 

Ktrn c;ri!Tcy Jr.. expected to be sidc'linrd 5-, days by a ham­string injury. dismisscd speru­lation that he might not return if the Cincinnati Reds are out. of pla.yoll' contention. 
"It dtrnsn't matter if we're climinated or not," Griffey said Tuesday. "This is 1vhat I love to do." 
Cincinnali 1rntr.rcd Tuesday night's game against the Chicago Cubs ninc games behind St. Louis in the NL Central. 
c;riffcy partially torn his 1011 hamstring Monday night when h1i C'.ntsh11d into Cubs r,atdrnr JI),~ Girardi while trying to S!'0rr~ The Heds star lay on the ground at honw platr for sever­al minutes. then was lrnlpnd from thr fiPld. 
An MHI exam disclosed the nxtPnL or th!'. injury. 
c;ri!Trv is batting .2<,9 \Nith 39 honu' r·uns and 117 RBIs, his f'illh conspc·.utiv(i s1iason with at l1·asl 100 ll Ills. 
HP needs one homer to 
bt)comr only tlw fourth player 
to hit 40 homr.runs in sevr.n 
seasons. With 94 walks. he is 
two shv of' his carr.rr high. 
later playfully suggested he
Criff~v could br available for might as well return as soon as a sPri<~s next wc(1k in San possible because he didn't haveFrnn<'.isco. dPpr.nding on his anvthing else to do.
rPhabilitalion. H11ds spokPsman 
,:I don't have a job, I don't 
Hob Butch!ir said. 
have a business," he said. "J go
"It dcpPnds on when I'm 
home and take care of my fam­rt•adv," Criffoy said. "If' it takc,s ily. That's it."
long;ir. it takes longer. I'll ride But Griffey is also aware thattlw bikP and do whatever tlwy 
fans and teams still in con­
t<·II nw to do." 
trmtion expect to play against(;ri!Tev had missed only thrrn~ competitivr, lineups even in the 
ganws· this sPason until final games. The Reds have
TuPsday night. At first rnluc­series remaining with division tant to talk about his injury. he 



LaFortune Student Center Room 312 
Friday: Noon -12:45 P.M. 
leaders San Francisco and St. Louis. and end the season with three games with the Cardinals. 
"We r,an still make it interest­ing for the playoffs." Griffey said. 'Tve got to out and play those last three games." 
Griffey, who is not always willing to talk with writers and has been criticized by the Reds announr,er Martv Brennaman for not always ln{stling, made a peace gesture Tuesday night. 

Stawberry put under house arrest 
Associated Press 
TAMPA. fla. 
Suspended Yankees star Darryl Strawberry was sen­tenced to two years' house arrest Tuesday after admit­ting he violated probation by driving under the influence of medication and by leaving the scenr, of an accident. 
Strawberry, who is fighting the spread of colon cancer. apologized during abrief hearing before Judge Florenoi Foster for causing a Monday morning traffic acci­dmt. He said he blacked out from his medication while heading to a meeting with his probation officer. 
"I used the wrong judg­ment. .. taking medication because I didn't feel well," he told the court. "I just blacked out. I didn't know if l hurt anybody. I fnel really bad about that." 
Strawberry was released from jail Tuesday, slipping out a side door to avoid crowds. 
Foster was the judge who placed the suspended eight­time All-Star on probation last year in a drug and solici­tation case. Prosecutors requested house arrest, although Strawberry could have been sent to prison. 
Assistant State Attorney Robin Fuson said that Strawberry will still have to face the misdemeanor charges from Monday's ar,ci­dent, driving under the influ­ence and leaving the scene of the accident, as separate r,rimes that could bring addi­tional punishment. 
House arrest means the 38-year-old outfielder may leave home only to go to a doctor's office or to work. Should he attempt to rejoin a major league baseball team, he would need court permis­sion. Fuson said. 
"There's a lot going on there," Yankees manager Joe Torre said before Tuesday night's game against Toronto. "You have to won­der how he's going to make a living." 
Because of his season-long suspension, Strawberry is ·not drawing a salary from the Yankees. 
Outside court. Strawberry's wife, Charisse, said her hus­band is sorry about what happened, and was relieved to know the woman whose car he hit wasn't injured. 
"I just hope we'll recover 

from this," she said, as tears  
rolled from behind her sun­ 
glasses.  
She said her husband, who  
had surgery last month, is in  
a lot of pain due to the can­ 
cer and having a kidney  
removed. He also has some  
mental difficulties, she said,  
hut did not elaborat8.  
"We still have to live every  
day. He still has to wake up  
!'very morning and look in  
the mirror and say, Tm  
going through this,"' she  
said.  
Strawberry. who has bat­ 
tled drug and alcohol abuse  
for years, is not permitted to  
leave home even for an  
activity as mundane as going  - 
to the movies or to his chil­ 
dren's school.  
He will undergo regular  
drug testing and the Florida  
Department of Corrections  
will make surprise r,hecks on  
a daily basis ito make sure  
Strawberry is at home.  
"Two years of house arrest  
is no dav at the beach,"  
Fuson said.  
Foster warned Strawberry  
at Tuesday's hearing that he was to strictlv follow doctors'  -­ 
orders on the use of pre­ 
scription drugs and shouldn't  
drive if he's taken medica­ 
tion.  
"I suggest you might want  
to get a driver," Foster told  
Strawberry. adding she  
would not add any communi­ 
ty service to his sentenr,e.  
"You've got enough on  
your plate to deal with," she  
said.  
Strawberry must also pay a  
$265 fine and his case will  
be reviewed again in four  
months.  
Strawberry spent Monday  
night in jail after an off-duty  
Hillsborough County sheriffs  
deputy saw the player hit a  
road sign, turn onto another  
street and rear-end a sport  
utility vehicle stopped at a  
red light.  
ff he sur,cessfully com­ 
pletes the first year of house  
arrest. the judge said  - 
Strawberry could request to  
return to regular drug­ 
offender probation.  
Strawberrv told officers  
Monday he had taken the  
sleeping medication Ambien.  
according to sheriff's  
spokesman Rod Reder.  
Joseph Fir,arrotta,  - 
Strawberry's defense attor­ 
ney, said he also has pre­ 
sr,riptions for the narcotic  
painkillers Perr,ocet and  
Vicodin.  
I  


Contact: 1-7970 for details 
Kauffman Entrepreneur! Intern 
2000-2001 schoolyearjfbs Kickoff Meeting This Thursday 7:00 p.1n. Room 162 Il Mendoza College of Busiihess Come listen to last sum~er's Kauffinan Entrepreneur Inrerns Describe their experienc~s! 
I' 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 13, 2000 
PGA 

Woods causes ratings to soar 
Associated P-rcss 

Grant Waite has n1wer con­tended in a major champi­onship. 
It only l'elt that way. 
T h e 
Canadian Open may be the third-old• est nation­al champi· onship in golf. but it is nothing 


more than Woods regular PG/\ Tour event these days. Winning does not come with a 
live-year exemption on tour or to the four majors. The pres­sure is not nearly as suffocat­ing. 
Still, Glen Abbey Golf Club had that major championship feeling Sunday, when Waite began the final round tied for the lead with Tiger Woods and then matched him shot-for­shot in a brilliantly played duel. 
The difference was one 
stroke, and one shot that was 
vintage Woods -a 6-iron from
-
218 yards out of a bunker and over the water on the last hole that gave Woods his 27th victo­ry worldwide and made Waite his 21st victim. "It was a very enjoyable experience," Waite said. "That's about as tough as it's 
ever going to get on the PGA Tour other than maybe a final round of a major." 
Part of that had to do with 

the thousands of fans who 
stood four-deep down every 
fairway, part of the 50,000 
people at Glen Abbey, the 
largest gallery in Canadian golf 
historv. 
Part of that had to do with 

whom he was trying to beat. 
The television ratings speak volumes. To no one's surprise, ESPN reported Tuesday that its final-round coverage of the Canadian Open drew the most viewers for a golf tournament in the cable network's history, more than 2.7 million homes. 
Players also are aware that Woods has made a huge impact where it really counts, with money from the four-year television contract translating into record purses that have made millionaires out of 33 players this year. 
The most exciting aspect of Woods could be found pressed against the ropes and packed into the knolls overlooking tee boxes, fairways and greens. 
Such was the case at Glen Abbey. And at Warwick Hills Golf and Country Club for the Buick Open, which Woods decided to play for the first time in two years. And even last year at Disney World, where more and more people take time away from Space Mountain to catch a glimpse of 
the young star who is playing 
out of this world. 
The size of the crowd has a 
marginal bearing on prize 
money and even less of one on 
television ratings. Ilut it is no 
less a benefit to the players 
around him, who now have an 
NFL-like theater in which to 
compete. 
But there's also a downside._ 
Paul Azinger was getting ready to tee off on the third hole Saturday, which is located in front of a path where play­ers -and marshals. and secu­rity, and media -walk to the first tee. Davis Love III came by with a small throng. which caused Azinger to stop his rou­tine. 
Then, he backed off again when he realized who Love's partner was in the third round. 
..Are you going to stop that big, bad Tiger?" he jokingly asked no one in particular. 
Azinger was at the last three non•majors that Woods played and noticed the difference in the number of those watching. He loved the size, as do the other players. 
The manners worry him. 
"It's changed so much from the late '80s," Azinger said. "They're much more verbal now." 
As Fulton Allem once said, etiquette is not some city in France. But it is more and more lost on the new faces coming to the game. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Smith looks to outlaw collegiate sports betting 
both chambers. 
Associat~d Press 

Heferring to the millions of dollars given by the gambling
WASIIINGTON 

industry to both parties. Sen.
Dean Smith, college basket• John McCain, H·Ariz., said the

ball's career victory leader, 

bill is threatened only
sought another win Tuesday because of "the influence of

by endorsing an effort in 

big money in American poli-Congress to outlaw gambling 
tics." 
on collegiate 

S t i I I •
sports. 

"It can't hurt anybody in republican
"We're talk­

Vegas. [Casinos/ can still Sen. Sam
ing about 

Brown back
something take {bets on] the pro 

of Kansasthat r.an taint 
games. It isn't like they 

said he has
young people," 

aren't making b e e n
said Smith, 

assured by
who retired in enough money." 

Majority
1997 after 36 

L e a d e r
seasons and 

Dean Smith Trent Lott of
879 victories at the NCAA basketball career Mississippi that the
University of victory leader 
N o r t h 
Carolina. 
He said he is not troubled by the fact that the legislation would affect only Nevada, the one state where betting on college sports is legal. 
"It can't hurt anybody in Vegas," he said. Casinos "can still take [bets on] the pro games. It isn't like they aren't making enough money." 
Lawmakers who support the betting ban brought Smith to Capitol Hill in hopes of gain­ing some end-of-session momentum for legislation in bill's sup• 

porters will get a chance this year to muster 60 votes to break a certain filibuster by Nevada's senators. 
A sponsor of the bill in the House, Rep. Lindsey Graham, from South Carolina said he is certain at least 300 of the 435 representatives would support it. 
Smith is one of several high­profile college coaches enlist­ed by the National Collegiate Athletic Association, a major force behind the bill. 
e chance tobuy 
tickets 

a r 5 for students 
-
a r 5 for non-students 
wednesday, september 13 @Washington Hall 
-
to waste 
aight from the heart of chicago 
sand gals don't make you laugh, nothing will 
week: MSU ticket lottery ......sept13. 4-7pm. LaFun Ballroom 
th/fri/sat......Gone in 60 Seconds. 28 Days@ DeBartolo 10.30pm th, 8.00&10.30pm friday&sat $2 
AcoustiCafe......Thurs@ 9pm 
www.nd.edu/~sub 

•--,c •• ., .. _.,., .......... ~ 

Wednesday, September 13, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 

SOCIAL 
For a More Just and Humane World
CONCERNS 

~@®~rru . ffil~ Uml~@M®fru ®@~W. ©@ ~rru@l ®@©.~. ~©Dt . @[ru 
IP@~1l-CGrr&ctll1!.11&1l~ ~~rN11({:~ IF&JJ.ll" W ~crllrme!.:~ctll&y11 ~~IP>1le!.:mDlltD~Ir ~ 7/ ~il~JP)&IID. CC~IID.il~rr -~~CID©}--~~CID@ JP)mm. 

Discernment Sessions 
What's next? Post-graduate service? Graduate school? Ajob in business? Work with a not-for­profit agency? The Center for Social Concerns offers the following session to help you discern what path to take. Each session offers you criteria or questions for decision-making and Invites you to look creatively at what your next step may be. 
LIVING A FAITH TO DIE FOR 
MIKE BAXTER, CSC 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13-CSC 5:30-7:30 PM 
WHAT'S NEXT: CRITERIA FOR DECISION-MAKING 
FR. MICHAEL HIMES (VIA VIDEO) WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20-SIEGFRIED HALL CHAPEL 5:30-7:30 PM 
STYLES OF TRANSITION AND DECISION MAKING 
WENDY SETTLE, PHD WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4-CSC Notre Dame Volunteers in Jamaica, 1995 5:30-7:30 PM 
Senior Transition Groups 

Small groups of seniors will meet 5 times during the year for dessert and conversation at various facul­ty or alumni 's homes. Professors from each college will host and facilitate the sessions. In a support­ive and open atmosphere~ you can discuss and reflect on questions you have about integrating social concerns into life beyond ND. 
Group Kick-Off seccion is on Sunday, Sept. 24, 6-7:307:30 
Sign up at Lafortune on Wed, Sept. 13 from 12-5:00 or email Shappell. l@nd.edy by Sept. 20 


Information Sessions at the Center for Social Concer1lls 
Holy Cross Associates­September 19 at 6:00 pm October 3 at 5:00 pm October 4 at 4:00 and 6:00 pm-Chile 
Inner-City Teaching Corps-October 5 at 4:30 and 7:30 pm 
Notre Dame Program in Puerto Rico­October 6 at 3:00 pm 
Please contact Andrea Smith Shappell, Director of Senior Transition Programs at 631-5779 or Shappell. I@nd.edu for more information. Registration for the Discernment Sessions is requested. 



page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 13, 2000 
NFL 
M~tt JWlD S~l~ ML1·1P~e !f-Ucatlllttiluv CUu~~ J. . ....'"' ..::, When NDstu ...,,. ~ choosetodr I/II/It. ..men have Sor 111drinks pe,.__,,..r':•v••ell'lll•""'...n..... womenh --..~ a, ..;; ii ,.:.: ...~,_-,,·_,. .. ... _;"'-!'' A mcssa:..:~· from PILLARS ·':-..: . " with Akolwl & Dru:,: Edu.:ation >11 La Fortun~· Studl.'nt l\•ntcr Unh·<'rsity of No1r~· D.1mcUdriim'k::;; U/1lo~IPAl\e; (.:!JlJ) 6H-797l'which is approximately hrtp://1rn,,·.n..l.t.·Ju/~.1l.lrul1/10 oz 5% beer= 4 oz 12% wine= 1 oz 100 proof liquor  


Packers receive tax to renovate stadiulll 
A,sociared Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. 

Voters approved a half-per­cen t sales tax to help the Green Bay Packers renovate Lambeau Field. clearing the way for the team to start con­struction in January. 
With 96 percent of Brown County's precincts 
the county's

reporting, "We are going to have 
more than

46,386 vot­the finest stadium 
160,000 eli­

ers, or 53 
in the NFL. " gible voters 
percent. 
going to the

voted for the 
polls. By

tax to raise Bob Harlan 
Monday,

$160 million 
Packers president some 2.100
for the $295 million pro-j P.c t. There were 40,947 votes against il. 
The county will start col­lecting the tax Nov. 1, Packi,rs president Bob llarlan said. 
"We are going to have the f'inest stadium in the NFL ., Harlan said at the Stadiu~ View Sports Bar and Grill in c;reen Bay. where 400 team supporters gathered Tuesday nighl. 
"Amerir.a's team still rnsides in Green Bay, Wis." 
Long before the final votes were counted, a cheer went up at the Stadium View Sports Bar when WBAY tele­vised its exit poll, which pro­jected the sales tax would pass. 
"Wn have Vince Lombardi looking over us." said Larry Primr.au, known as "Packalope" for the antler­adorned helmet he wears. 
Voters also decided whether money generated by the tax in excess of that need­ed for the renovation should go toward county services. With 96 percent of precincts reporting. 47,872. or 55 per­cent. opposed that idea, and 38,470, or 45 percent. voted for it. 
By passing the first question and rejecting the second. vot­ers decidfid the additional tax 
"IWANl·IIN1811 IIWl'I 981A 
· s •• ¦IIINT1411'' ~.'£ lt.tlTYI 
11 
0 
i) 
f 

revenue will be used to retire the Lambeau Field debt years earlier. 
The sales-tax vote had been projected as a close one. pit­ting voters' love of the Packers against their pocket­books. 
Officials had predicted the turnout would be high. with 
perhaps 80 
percent of 

people had cast absen­tee ballots in Green Bay, more than the number of absentee votes in the presidential election in November 1996, officials said. 
Tom Tomashek of Ashwaubenon said he sup­ported the tax because he wants his children and grand­children to watch the Packers play at Lambeau Field. 
"Truthfully, without the Packers, this would be like a ghost town," he said. "You might as well board up all the hotel rooms." 
The Packers announced the $295 million renovation in January, saying it would expand the 43-year-old stadi­um's capacity to 71,100 seats by adding 10,000 more, mod­ernize the stadium with more bathrooms and concessions stands and add a mall-like atrium for the Packers Hall of Fame. Packer Pro Shop, sta­dium club and other ameni­ties. 
The Packers hope to finish the project in 2003 so the sta­dium could be used year­round and provide at least a 25-year fix to the team's growing financial worries. 
Gov. Tommy Thompson said the Legislature now should approve $9 million for infrastructure improvements such as roads and utilities for the project. 
Denver updates roster for 2000 
. Nedney, Harris sign with Broncos after Tuesday's auditions 
Associated Press 
DENVER 
Scrambling for spare parts. the Denver Broncos went shopping for a dependable foot and experienced legs. 
Kicker Joe Nedncy and running back Raymont Harris. a pair of five-year players released by NFL teams two weeks ago, signed with the Broncos after audi­tioning at the team's head­quarters Tuesday. 
Nedney was one of three kickers who went through an hour-long workout as Denver sought a temporary replace­ment for Jason Elam, who is exper.tcd to miss 3-8 weeks because of two fractured bones in his lower back. 
Jaret Holmes. who played two games for Chicago last year, and Michael Husted, another Oakland castoff, also worked out for Denver on Tuesday. 
Nedney will have an imme­diate chance to seek revenge against the Raiders when the Broncos play at Oakland on Sunday. He was cut in the final week of training camp after losing his job to first­round draft pick Sebastian Janikowski. 
"He handled it with great professionalism," Nedney's agent, Bob LaMonte, said. "I know [coach) Jon Gruden liked him as a kicker. but when you take a kicker in the No, 1 hole, your guy 
becomes expendable. That's 
business. He wished the 
Raiders well, and they 
wished us well." 
Like Nedney, Barris was released just before the sea­son started when the New England Patriots decided to go with second-year pro Kevin Faulk and rookie J.R. Redmond. 
Harris, drafted by Chicago in the fourth round in 1994. was hoping to rebuild an injury-plagued career in New England. He did not play last year because of a stress fracture in his left leg, and he missed most of the 1995 season with the Bears because of a broken collar­bone. 
With eight career 100-yard games, including one against Denver in 1996, Harris pro­vides the Broncos with some insurance in the backfield. Olandis Gary is out for the season with a knee injury. and Terrell Davis is recover­ing from a sprained ankle. 
Rookie Mike Anderson ran for 131 yards on Sunday, but was expected to return to a backup role with Davis set to play against Oakland. 
Harris' signing came at the expense of former Broncos running back Derek Loville, who also worked out in Denver on Tuesday. 
The Raiders signed Nedney late last season after Michael Husted missed 11 of his 31 field-goal attempts. In three games, Nedney converted five of seven field goals, including a 38-yarder in the final minute and a game­winning 33-yarder in over­time in the season finale at Kansas Citv. 
. Broncos waive Coleman, Cooper and picks up Tuten 
Associated Press 
DENVER 
The Denver Brnncos waived 
backup running back KaRon 
Coleman on Tuesday, a move 
that indicates Terrell Davis is 
ready to return for Sunday's 
game against Oakland. 
Denver also waived wide receiver Andre Cooper and signed offensive tackle Melvin Tuten to replace Trey Teague, who was placed on injured reserve with a torn knee liga­ment. 
Coleman, a rookie signed as an undrafted free agent. had seven carries for 21 yards Sunday against Atlanta. He was signed from Denver's practice squad last week when the Broncos determined Davis would not be able to play because of a sprained left ankle. 
Mike Anderson ran for 131 yards in place of Davis, but was set to return to a backup role this weekend. The Broncos also signed veteran Haymont Harris on Tuesday as the team's third running back. 
If he is not claimed off waivers, Coleman likely will return to Denver's practice squad. Linebacker Jamie Baisley was waived from the practice squad Tuesday. 
Tuten. a fourth-year pro. appeared in two games with the Broncos last year. He played 32 games for the Cincinnati Bengals from 1995-96. 

Wed11esd,1\'. September 13, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 

Controllers Department 
Interviewing on Campus Friday, October 6, 2000 
Be Part of Our Team! 
S11hmit Your Resume to th2 Caree.-SeNices Office by no later than: 
Thursday, September 14, 2000 

MINOS. WICE OPEN~M www.gs.com 

Goldman Sachs, an equal opportunity employer, does not discriminate in employment on any basis that is prohibited by federal, state or local laws.© 2000 Goldman, Sachs & Co. 

page 22 The Obreruer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 13, 2000 
Oly01pics 
continued -from page 28 
big rush for me. It was kind of like a circus atmosphere." 
Notre Dame will have to make do without Shay this cToss country season. as he recovers from 15 months of intfmse training. 
"Because 

ond. 
"The top five or six high jumpers are all in their mid­30s." Engelhardt. "The next crop of athletes are coming out of the collegiate level. I was second collegiately. and that was very promising." 
Taking on the best Americans in her event was a treat for Engelhardt 
"It was just something l had 
always been 
working for. 
2000-01 University of Notre Dame Women's Basketball Schedule  
Date Opponent Location Time Suii'.N~J·••·· (S)Jti<>:.A.11:s~:(ixlilliiuon) Joyce···Center 7:00 p.m. Tues. Nov. 14 Foreign Team (exhibition) Joyce Center 7:00 p.m. .F/f.;t:!~t)!,!t~ ~ · Valp~ra:iso, Ind. 7;35.p.m. Mon. Nov. 20 Arizona Joyce Center 7:00 p.m. M~1JJlSn, Wis. J'R~·:-~~=_'"J/1',·TBA..­. Fri. Nov. 24 Madison, Wis. 12:30/3 p.nL Moh:'Nov~.27. Joyce Center 7:00 p.m. Sun. Dec. 3 North Carolina% (ESPN2) Orlando, Fla. 1 :30 p.m. We«b1cl:}~;;~,./•.,s.····; :i:MHAA~vai!i~&laar§•''' JoyceCenter 7:00 p.m. Sat. Dec. 9 Purdue Joyce Center 7:00 p.m. Mon; I>ec.;·· 18 "~~tWi ste'm''Midnhan Joyce Center 7:00 p.m. j!\&'.AA~,. ••, , · · •· .·t, .. • Thurs. Dec. 2 l Marquette Milwaukee, Wis. 7:00 p.m. Thurs. Dec. 28' "'~7t]SC , ·· Los Angeles, Cali£ 7:00 p.m. Sun. Dec. 31 Rice Joyce Center 1:00 p.m. We~.:1fil~:•?•.·;~;4;1ti~It :~,:¥lrgli~':ft!~~·:31l:;1q3i,I~c;·•, Blacksburg, WV. TBA Sat. Jan. 6 Rutgers * Joyce Center 1:00 p.m. Tues. Jan. 9 St. John's* Jamaica, N.Y. 7:30 p.m. Sat. Jan. 13 Virginia Tech * Joyce Center 1:00 p.m. Mon. Jan. 15 Ccmnecticut *(ESPN) Joyce Center 2:00 p.m. Sun. Jan. 21 Seton Hall * South Orange, N.J. 12:00 p.m. Wed,•J~tJ..·.•·?4 ·· ""''".,'"'>'··:W~~'i~irgi•itia."'*;ff'/1""'' Morgantown, W.V. TBA Wed. Jan. 31 Providence* Joyce Center 7:00 p.m. Sat. Feb. 3 Boston College * Chestnut Hill, Mass. 2:00 p.m. Wed. Feb. 7 Pittsburgh * Joyce Center 7:00 p.m. Wed. Feb. 14 ~yr~cuse * Syracuse, N .Y. 7:00 p.m. Sar. Feb. 17 Rutgers* Piscataway, N.J. 7:30 p.m. Tues. Feb. 20 Miami * Joyce Center 7:00 p.m. Sat. Feb. 24 Georgetown * Joyce Center I :00 p.m. Tues. Feb. 27 .Pittsburgh* Pittsburgh) Pa. 7:00 p.m. Sat.-Tues. March 3-6 BIG EAST Championship Storrs, Conn. TBA  
* indicates BIG EAST Conference game.  


I've had such a 
"Just having that Notre 
Hecognizing

long track sea­
Dame 1m~form on for the that I
son up through mid-July. it's last lime was probably belonged there was
caused me to 
one ofthe most heart­
just :t really

bo a liule more 
warming feelings I'll ever great feel­
fatigued and injury-prone haue. I was one ofthe few i n g . " Engelhardt
than usual." down there representing 
said. "It was

Shay said. "I 
my school." a tremen­
think sitting 
dous honor

out Lhis snason 
to be down

is the besl Ryan Shay 
there with

thing l'or nHL If' 
senior distance runner 
I run. I'm just 
asking !'or injury and 
t.hat.'s drnncing future goal.s." 
By sitting out this year, Shay will bn ablr. to return for thf' 2001 crnss countrv s1-iason. lln 
would alrnadv be~ f'ligible for track next year since hP. did not compete his freshman sea­
son. 
After graduating in May. Engelhardt managed to extend hnr Notre Dame can~er a little bit with thP trip to the Olympic Trials. 
".Just having that 1\lotre Dame uniform on for the last tinw was probably onf' of' the most hPartwurming feelings I'll evrr havr-," Iingclhardt said. "I was otrn of the fow down therr­n~prr.scnting my school." 
Engelhardt finished in a tie for sevl'nth place with a leap of' /ivr. feet. 10 '.V4 inches. while it 
took six feet. two inches to qualify. Among collegiate ath­lr.tr.s. however. she plarnd SPC· 
my idols basir.ally growing up. 

That's  a  
level J've alwav s wanted  to  
achieve."  ·  

Engelhardt came away from the Trials with a sense of what Olympic competition is like. 
"The energy was just fantas­tic." Engelhardt said. "It didn't matter who you wern, where you r.ame from. Everybody had a cheering crowd." 
While the three-time All­American at Notrr Dame fell short of a berth in this year's Olympic Games. she isn't giv­ing up on her Olympic dream just yet. 
Engcdhardt is staying on at Notre Dame as a volunteer assistant coach while she stu­dent teaches and continues to train with field events coach Sr.ott Winsor. lier short-term goal is to rompete in the World Championships in two years, followed by the 2004 Olympic Games. 

Cordially invites the University community to the presentation of the 
2000 Charles E. Sheedy Award for Excellence in Teaching 
to 
Professor Reginald Bain Department of Film, Television and Theatre 
4:00 p.m., Friday, September 15th Snite Museum, Annenberg Auditorium 

Wednesday, September 13, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Auburn returns to national rankings 
Associated Press 
AUBUHN, Ala. 

The Auburn TigPrs are back in tht~ rankings J'or Lhf' first Lime in m~arly two years. And their running g a 111 P . among thf! n iL Li o n · s 
worst  in  
r  r  c ('  n t  
yt'ill'S,  is  

no·w among tlw bcsL 
.. \,V <'. r (' not tlw bPst LPam liliLL is oul lhl'n' right now." coach Tommy Tub0rvilln said. "'v\'e'rc going lo haVl' to go out and prm•p wr am what WP think Wf\ are." 
Tht' No. 24 Tignrs (2-0. 1-0 Southnastl'rn Conl'ornncrl. who play al 110nm against LSU on Saturdav. havP had a hard timP rirnning tlrn past f'f'w Sf',tsons. Mut junior rolli~gP transfer Hudi Johnson has hrlp<~d rhan140 that. 
"To Ldl you how far thP run-


"We're nol the best team that is out there right now. We're going to have to go out and prove we are what we think we are. " 
Tommy Tuberville Auburn head coach 

ning game's r.omc, I'm getting afI kinds of e-mails now from alumni and fans, 'What's hap­pening to our passing game?'" Tubf'rvillP said. "It's a whole dif­ferent altitude from everybody." 
The Tigers ranked 112th of 114 Division I-A teams in rush­ing last season. and have not had a 1,000-yard rusher in five years. Of course, that was pre­Rudi. Johnson has tolal0,d 3'.~9 vards and five touchdowns in two gamr>s. leading thr1 league and ranking seventh in the nation in rushing. 
To put that in pNspectivc, last year's loading rusher, lleath Evans. finished with just 330 yards. The team has already matr:hed its eight rushing TDs of last season. 
Auburn's 261-vard effort against Ole Miss on Saturday was the most since the Tigers racked up 292 in a 62-0 win over fresno State In 1996. 
The one thing Auburn hasn't been able to do with consistenr,y since Stephen Davis went to the NFL in 1995 is now its forte. 
"I think they know we r.an give the balf to Rudi and he can get three-four yards running the ball." Tuberville said. "l think that's the only place we really have confidence right now." 
The Tigers are coming off 3-8 and 5-6 seasons. Many thought they wouldn't do much better this year. 
"You can throw all those out the door," Tuberville said. "Thank goodness for that." 
It is the running game that's been the team's strength. The passing game still hasn't clicked, even though the main compo­nents are all back. 


Football 
continued from page 28 
helm, the Irish will need to back up their character with skill. 
With an inexperienced and untested quarterback in sopho­more Gary Godsey, the Irish offensive line will face a Purdue defense hungry for the blitz and a chance at the sack. 
"If [losing the starting quar­terback] were to happen last year I don't know if we would have been capable of raising our level of play that much with the inexperience the [offensive line] had," Davie said. "But now, a year later, we don't have any excuses because the surrounding cast is stronger. I think we're a bet­ter football team." 
Despite Godsey's inability to run the option, Davie is confi­dent that his offense will not miss a beat. 
"The offense will not be limit­ed in any way because of' Gary Godsey," Davie said. ''We'll just do some different things. It's obvious we're not going to do as much option, if any, With Gary in the game. But if he gets into a rhythm and gets com­fortable, I'm totally comfort­able with him." 
Davie is not the only one comfortable with his pick as the new starter: Godsey him­self is confident with his task. 
'Tm ready to do whatever it takes," Godsey said. "Saturday is just a football game and I don't want to make it a bigger deal than that." 
Godsey, who played only two seasons at quarterback in his high school career, was recruited by Davie as a tight end. Godsey, who could have gone to other universities as a quarterback, chose to attend Notre Dame with the hope that the opportunity to be the Irish signal caller would surface. After CJ Leak backed out of his verbal commitment with Notre Dame and Eric Chappell left the team, Godsey got his wish and moved into the third-string quarterback role behind Battle 
and  '99  graduate  Jarious  
Jackson.  
Davie  is  confident  that  

Godsey's preparation will carry the Irish far this season. 
"With Gary. you know what you're getting into -as much as it is possible to know with­out the guy being in the game," Davie said. "You've seen him in the stadi11m in the spring game. You've seen him in scrimmage situations. I think we're going to hang in there with him. that's why I said it's his job and we plan on him playing the whole football game." 
Notes 
. 
Battle underwent surgery Tuesday afternoon to repair the broken navicular bone in his left wrist. 'The doctor said there was no question that the surgery needed to be done once he was in there," Davie said. Battle will wear a soft r,ast until Monday, before wearing a hard r,ast for a mini­mum of two weeks. 

. 
Irons will undergo surgery in 7 -10 days when the swelling in his left shoulder goes down. 


MATAPAT 
A Celebration of Traditio1 al Quebec Perforn1ed in Spirited Son & Dance 
Tuesday, September 19, 2000 
7:30 p.m. Little Theatre s,,.,....,-.c.11,,•~ 
t1~Wiff'&/
For ticket information contact ~~:O':i:~~. ,N the Saint Mary's College Box Office, 284-4626 

Sophomores & Juniors! $CHOLAR$HIP$ AVAILABLE N1OW! AF ROTC -Producing Leaders for the Air Force and Building better citizens for America Non-competitive Scholarships ­$17,480 annually, are available for select majors for sophom1:>res and for ALL juniors! Don't waste a moment! Contact Captain Klubeck at 631-4676, or Klubeck.1@nd.edu  



page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 13, 2000 
NCAA 
Davis to replace Knight as coach 
Associa1ed Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 

Mike Davis, a Bob Knight dis­r.iple but an opposite in tem­pP.rament and style, inherited one of college basketball's most visible jobs Tuesday as interim coach at Indiana. 
The univBrsity, stung by one rontroversy after another involving Knight over the past year, picked the low-key Davis to hr.ad thP program for at lr,ast one season and selected John Treloar. another former Knight assistant. as interim associatf1 coach. 
'Tm a quiet guy, but I love to compel(\," said the 39-year-old Davis. Davis play"d at Alabama, was a second-round pick by Milwaukcn in the 1983 NBA drafl and thm1 played in Europe and in the CB!\. 
lfo rctunwd to Alabama as an assistant coach in 1995 and came to Indiana two years later. 
Davis was rnsponsibln for Davis said.
recruiting "There was no way I 
"But thpre's 

many of the could turn this job down, no pressurecurrPnt playPrs. 
because ofthe players. on me from
Aft(1r Knight 
that stand­

was firnd The way they came out 
point. All I

Sunday for vio­for me really can do is
la ling a "zero 
touched me." recruit the 
t o I P r a-n c e " 
way I'vebnhavior policy 

recruited

imposed in Mike Davis before and
May. thr, play­
Indiana head basketball coach 
coach the

(1rs thrPatenPd to transfor en masse unless Davis or Treloar was given the interim job. 
"There was no way I could turn this job down, berausr, of the playnrs," said Davis, sur­roundr,d by the team during a nr,ws conference on the basket­bal I court at i\ssemblv Ilall. "The way th Py camn out· for me rnally touched mP. 
'Tm 11xtn~mdy happy for this opportunity. but I'm sad because ol' th<' way it happPned. I r,nvi­simwd being a head coar,h, but under diffornnt circumstancr.s ... Everyone knows Coach Knight is the mason I'm hem and why the playr.rs arn lrnre." 
But. he added. "Indiana bas­kr.tball is bigger than anyone." 
Unlike Knight, Davis said he would open practices lo the mndia. Another difference. cen­tt!r Kirk Haston said. laughing. wrn, "the language." 
"Coach (Knightl talked a lot morn. but we'll find out how that comparns," Ilaston said. 
"I was really thrilled when I came in this morning and talkr,d with Coach Davis and he said everybody was aboard. That's the happiest l'vn bnen in a few days." 
Until word spread that Davis would be the coach, as the play­ers had hoped, up to a half­dozen or more players indicated they were considering transfer­ring. They all changed their minds. 
"It's going to be different," said junior Dane Fife. who just onr day f>arlier said he already had decided to leave. "As we sat in the locker room before the press conference, coach Davis and coach Treloar walked in, but no coach Knight. That was different right there. 
"We definitely have something to prove, that we've been through a lot and we have to come out and brat people. We owe it to him," he said of Knight. "This is his team. We're ready to go." 
Davis acknowledged his debt to Knight and said the Indiana tradition expects. even demands, success. 
"I look forward to the season. We're one or two players away from being national ron­
tenders," 

best way I can and let the chips fall where they may." 
Davis will be the head coach through at least this season. but the school has said it also will look at other candidates for the following season. 
"If we don't have a great sea­son. I shouldn't be considered," a confident Davis said. 
Athlnlic director Clarence Doninger. who announced the appointments of Davis and Treloar, called that a "very hon­nst appraisal." 
"On the other hand, a season and success would not necessar­ily be just wins and losses," Doninger said. 
The announcement came two days after Indiana fired Knight for repeated misronduct and a day after players told Doninger they wanted Davis or Treloar to be hired as interim coach. Doninger. however, said Tuesday he did not consider that an ultimatum. 
"I would be less than honest to say you don't feel pressure as you try to make a decision like this. and all sorts of rumors and allegations going around. but I had alreadv decided I want Mike and John ci part of the mix this y1mr," Doninger said. 
. Smith shows his support of Knight 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Dean Smith. college bas­ketball's career victory leader, is disappointed that Bob Knight won't be able to chase his record at Indiana. 
Smith. in Washington on Tuesday to support legisla­tion that would ban gam­bling on college sports. said he hadn't talked to Knight in three or four weeks. but expected the fired Indiana coach to coach again some­where. 
'Tm hugely disappointed that Bob is out of coaching at Indiana. but I think he'll resurface," Smith said. 
Smith retired from North Carolina following the 1997 season with 879 victories. Knight has 7&3 victories. 
Smith said h1~ didn't understand why Knight was fired. but admitted he didn't know all the details. He said Knight's teaching ability is needed. 
"We need him in basket­ball." Smith said. "He's a great basketball coach and just loves it. He's driven to be a teacher and a coach. He's a demanding teacher, but if you look back. the teacher you remember is probably a demanding teacher." 
NFL 
Jets use fourth to jump to 2-0 record 
first three quarters of the two 
Associated Press 
games. "He has confirmed what our team already knew
HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. 
about him,"Playing poorly on offense 
On Tuesday, Groh put a
for three quarters and turn­
positive spin on the mediocreing it around in the fourth quarter isn't the safest path to a 2­0 record. That's exactly the road Vinny Testaverde and the New York Jets have taken. 
Testa­verde has been the best fourth­
''The teams at the top of divisions or in the hunt would be the teams that have been in a lot of these kinds ofgames and had them turn out in their favor. " 
Al Groh Jets' coach 
offense that made the two come­back victo­ries neces­sary, saying the rallies built confi­dence for the final 14 gamns, many of which will likely also be decided late. 
" T h e 
teams at tho 
quarter quarterback in the NFL the first two weeks, com­pleting 14 of 19 passes for 270 yards and three touch­downs in a 20-16 victory over Green Bay in Week 1 and a 20-19 win over New England on Monday night. 
Ile needed all three of those touchdowns to win the two games, passing to Curtis Martin in the fimi.l minutes to beat the Packers and com­pleting two TD passes to Wayne Chrebel in the last 
6:25 to defeat the Patriots. 
"That's what a real NFL quarterback is supposed to do," coach Al Groh said after Monday night's game, forget­ting that Testaverde is a com­bined 25-ol'-62 for 272 yards and one touchdown in the lop of divisions or in the hunt would be the warns that have been in a lot of' these kinds of games and had them turn out in their favor," Groh said. "Having been in two of these games early. I'd hko to think that will set the confidnnce level and the foundation for what will be many repeat­type games. 
"I used to dream about hav­ing a smooth level of efficien­cy throughout the game, but ii' you have won of' those, you probably won 35-7, and you're not going to get many of those." 
Groh said he tried to build his roster in training camp with players who have lhn mental and physical ability to win close games. 


Wednesday, September 13, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
Saint Mary's gained needed "Defonse was starting to experience from Kalamazoo, click in". 
Volleyball 
2000-01 Universi!f of Notr·e Dame

realizing their ability to play The Belles will face off continued from page 28 as a unit. against conference rival 
Men's Basketliall Sche<lule 

"I saw positions improve 
Hope College on Saturday at 

wins. it's how we play," 100 percent from last week," 
4 p.m. at home. junior Jolie LeBeau added 
Schroeder-Riek said. 
Please Recycle The Observer. 



Are you interested in consulting as a potential
career? 

Do you ever wonder what IT consultants REALLY do? 
Learn about the prof'ession orconsulting through real project experience at the 66What is Consulting?!/~ panel discussion. 

Sponsored by...

Thursday, September 14th 
6:30 p.m. -8:30 p.m. 
Deloitte 

CCE Room 210 Consulting 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 13, 2000 
SOCCER 

Saint Mary's shut down by Kalamazoo in 5-0 loss 
Heather Muth, who fell early in the 
By SARAH RYKOWSKJ 

second half with a leg injury, con­Sports \'v'ritcr 
tributed one, while freshmen Kristin Greenwood and Kalie Green each 

It was a game fought by two young got off a shot. and restless teams and coaches. It T-he Hornets completed five of 25 was a game that shots. and kept the left Kalamazoo game primarily in 
victorious. and "It's really disappointing. the BeJIPs zonP. Saint Mary's still 
ft shows us that we have although the second 

rt\sllcss !'or a vic­torv. 
,.-1 think we were n~ally tired l'rom thn two gam11s this wef\k­end." Lvnn Taylor sail. "I know that I was 
half was split evenly 

a lot ofwork to du. " 
along both sides. 

Tia Kapphahn Laura Paulen made fourteen saves while allowing five
Saint Mary's soccer player 
limd after the long weekend." 
The Belles foll lo Kalamazoo by a tivr.-goal deficit. Tho l lornets defense allowrd Saint Mary's only threP shots on goal lo take the shutout. 
Kalamazoo is now 3-1-1 for the season. and 1-0 MIA,\. 
"It's really disappointing," Laura Paulen said. "It shows us that wn have a lot of work to do." 
Your 

children 
are a real 

credit 
to you. 



$500 each 

They're your pride and joy. What's more, they can save you up to $500 each, subtracted right off your federal income tax. The Child Tax Credit is an important benefit of the Taxpayer Relief Act. 
Who qualifies? Eachdependent child or descendant, stepchild or foster child under 17 as of I 2 /3 I /99. The child must be a 
U.S. citizen or resident. 

Credit is reduced when your modified Adjusted Gross Income exceeds certain limits. Special rules apply for three or more children. 
Why wait for a refund? You can take home more money every payday, if you ask your employer to withhold less. (Be careful to withhold enough to avoid a penalty.) 
See your 1999 tax booklet for full details. Or check the IRS Web site: www.irs.gov 
goals. Freshman Hornnts goalie Adrienne Beller barely contributed to 
her team's victory, re1/ording only one save behind her defense. 
The Belles now turn to next week­end as they face Olivet in an away match on Saturday, September 16. Their record is now 1-1 MIAA and 1­3-0 overall. 
"I think now we're all concentrat­ing on Olivet this weekend," Taylor said. 
The gay &lesbian student organization 
OutreachND 
at the University of Notre Dame 
Meeting Thursday at 8:30. New Members Welcome 
For information go to: 

The Observer The Belles, who lost to Rose Hulman this weekend, were unable to net a win Tuesday afternoon against top ranked Kalamazoo. 

or contact: 
www.outreachnd.org info@outreachnd.org 
Sunday-Monday-Tuesday-Wednesday 5:00 -7:00 PM 
LARGE CHEESE PIZZA 
$5.55 
Notr• Dam• S:alat Mary1• 
271-1177 271-7272 
Monday-Thursday 11 am -1 am 
Friday-Saturday 11 am -3 am 
Sunday Noon -1 am 

•Tit• ••·•• po,p,.,,,,.,, # on., o;•mp11••; 
:Bragging rights. 
The CoUegiato Olympic Modal Raco is on! Follow the tally with the GE CoOoge Modal NEJ.COJympics.com. 


Wednesday, September 13, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q

THE OBSERVER 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
THE ARRIVAL OF AVTVMN ... 
Fox TROT 
WHAT'S WITH  WE COMPETE. AGAINST  
THE FooTBALL  WE'RE  OTHER SCHOOLS ON  
JERSE'l'S?  THE  THE 128-SIT VIRTUAL  
VARSITY  GRIDIRON OF THE  
e-TEAM.  GAMESTATtON 2.  

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Prepare to fight 1 Call a jab a 34 File hook, e.g. 36 "Silent Movie" 
8 Prelim co-star, 1976 14 Clear, as a sky 39 _ corner 15 U.S./Canadian (make progress) 
defense system 40 Name repeated 16 Alexandra, e.g. in a nursery 17 Overpowering rhyme 
18 Delirious 41 Opening time, 19 Actress Meyers maybe and others 
20 "Cool!" 43 Fixes, as fights 44 words
21 "Lord, is _?": 
Matt. 26:22 45 Stovetop sound 22 Scrutinizes 46 Diminutive suffix 24 Dentist's 47 Boxer's 
request comeback? 25 "Later'' 48 Response to a 27 Blowup causes joke 28 Borne • 51 The United 
29 Blow up States, to 
31 Sally Ann of Central "Chitty Chitty Americans Bang Bang" 53 Bootlicking · ' 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

A S T T E N S E 
N T H E L E A D 

R U N 
A 
1=s1-=t-=+-+--+---+-.,...,,,....,.,+=...,,_~---+­
-=-+,,,-+---+---+-,-+=-1 
I N A -=+_T.,....,E,-+-,Re-i 
E R S 


Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
\ 

GOOD-BYE BROWN OPEN-TOE SANDAL BOX NUMBER TWO. HELLO Bl.AO:. DOC MARTENS BOX 
NUMBER FIVE 
54 Spies' quest 55 Property 
receiver 56 Certain dates 57 Idiosyncrasy 
DOWN 1 Kind of unit 2 Cry before 
sudden death 3 Having an ironic 
comedic tone 4 Actress Garr 5 Land of 
sentimental verse 6 Seems right 
7 Universal Studios record label 
8·31-Down opponent .g Meadow group 10 The Unsers of Indy 11 Igneous rock 
composed of feldspar and hornblende 
12 Stirbirds 13 Like yardage on a fourth down 15 It has numbers from 1 to 20 19 When to see 
stars 
23 L. Frank Baum prince 
24 Carnivorous fish also called a grindle 
26 Merlin and others 
GVYS] 600b-8YE OLD, ' MUSTY, PIT-STAINED T-SHIRTS 
TRoUSLE 1S, I HIT WE'VE GoT A 81C, THE 8 
GAME COMING BUTTON i 
UP AND LUCA~ Too FAST I 
HERE 1S OUT IN PRACTICE I WITH AN AND GoT ; tNlURY. A SltS~R. I 
.i 
Puzzle by Jim Page 
28 Some health 39 Like a best 47 Boone of the 
can gain knowledge by attending
food friend Braves 
seminars. Romance will add excite­30 Soothing hue 40 Parts of a herd 49 Street plan, e.g. ment to your day. Don't overload 31 8-Down your plate or take too much for grant­
50 With no ends
42 Actress 
ed. 000
opponent 
Chandler et al. sticking out 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can be
33 Architect 
52 Hosp. areas extremely popular if you socialize.
44 Light bulb Saarinen 
Secret love affairs will be tempting.
choice 53 Miguel or Joao
34 English poet Sir Think twice before you get involved. Arthur Idle promises are likely with regards to career advancement 000
_-Couch Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 35 Pressure are available by touch-tone phone: 37 Raphael's "_ 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Madonna" Annual subscriptions are available for the 38 Puts away, in a best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 way years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 

Name .... Addr cs s City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
TYLER
TOM KEELEY THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 
BILL AMEND 
TELL YOU HOLY WHAT, FORGET COW! I ASKED... WHAT 
PINKIES! 
TA:~ES
( 
HE COULD 
• , MAl<E! "" l 
Dating at Notre Dame 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEIIIUTIES BORN ON TIIIS 
DAY: Roy Scheidei; Sinbad, Macken­
zie Phillips, Donna Fargo 
Happy Birthday: Take good care of yourself this year. You will be inclined to run yourself ragged if you don't make special arrangements and take time to sit back and relax. You will be alert and quick to make things happen; however, if you take your time, you will build a solid base that will be sure to bring you prosperity and respect. Your numbers: 5, 15, 24, 33,37,42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your emotions will be unstable if you allow others to take you for granted. Secret love affairs or infatuations will develop suddenly; however, they may notbe lasting. 00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Talk over your current problems with your lover. Friends and relatives will give good advice. Tolve! for pleasure or involvement with groups will pro­mote new relationships. 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Busi­ness and pleasure will be easily mixed if you travel today. Your ability to dazzle colleagues will enhance your reputation and ensure advance­ment. Social events wi11 promote romance. 0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Travel will be your best objective today. You 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (A.ug. 23-Sept. 22): New 
romantic encounters will develop 
through activities that include large 
groups and organizations. You can 
get a lot accomplished if you are will­
ing to communicate openly. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can 
make major financial gains by using 
your intuition. Howevei; you should 
talk to those with knowledge about 
the invesbnents in which you wish to 
get involved. CIOOO 
SCORPIO 1[0ct. 23-NR 21): Tolv­
e! and open ,communication will 
bring good n,sults. You can make 
progress at wo1rk or while on business 
trips. Uncertainties in your home may 
cause oonfrontttions. 00 
SAGITI'AIUUS (NR 22-Dec. 21): You may refle,:t on past experiences with respect to old friends and lovers. Don't live in lhe past for too long. Relationships will flourish if you are active. ooooc• 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Have a positive attitude when deal­ing witn your partner. Take time to show affection and genuine love. If you reassure him or her of your feel­ings, you can safe yourself a lot of 
grief.000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can make pro~;ress in business ven­tures. Take tim1, to discuss your ideas concerning a more efficient method of doing things. Romance will develop through 'work-related social activities. 
000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will enjoy taki1tg trips that will en­hance your knowledge. Visits with friends or relatives will be enjoyable. Romantic opportunities will develop through educational groups you belong to. 000 



Restless for awin 
Saint Mary's soccerfell to 1-3 011erall and 1-1 in the M!M with a .5-0 loss to Kalamazoo. 
page 26

PORTS 
O
THE page 28 BSERVER Wednesday, September 13, 2000 
VOLLEYBALL 

Hornets block a Belles win 
By ALICIA ORTIZ 
Sports Writ~r 

The Kalamazoo Hornets volleyball team blocked their way to a win against Saint Marv's Tuesday night. 
Th·e Belles did all they could to return the volley from Kalamazoo. but their attempts fell shorL when Lhe Hornets formed a fortress and blocked them. dropping the BP-llos· record to 0-8 on the season. 
Kalamazoo won 3-1. defeat­ing Saint Mary's I5-7. 15-7, and 15-4. The Belles took lhe second game 15-7. 
Tho Belles had scvPral good plays. but lacked the consis­tency they needed to win. 
"Hight now we arfl not con­sistent. We have spurts," head coach Julie Schroeder­Biek said. "I am thrilled to sne it. but we need to know how to dig it out all the time." 
Tim llorncts came to Saint Mary's looking to even the score after a disappointing loss to the Belles last year. 
"We came hem af'ter losing to Saint Mary's in the MIAA tournament last year," Kalamazoo coach Jeanne f-less said. "It was a great loss to us and we shook it off'. 
Th1, second game offered Saint Mary's a c·hance to show Kalamazoo why they came out on top last year. 
"We have to pull it out of' our gut somewhere v.nd smash on a team like that," senior Victoria Butcko said. "We had Kalamazoo scram­bling". 
"They had good defense and lots of heart," Hess said. "They really stepped up in game two". 
Saint Mary's just couldn't keep up the spirit for the rest of the game. 
"Overall we just didn't fin­ish the game," Schroeder­Biek said. "We're really going to work on finishing and hav­ing the drive. We need to hep the level of intensity it takes to win the game" 
Although they lost. the women on tlrn tP-am are look­ing at the positives. 
"It. is disappointing not to win. but we won in different aspects", Butcko said. "We took a step up from where we havH been playing". 
"It's not the amount of' 
see VOLLEYBALL/page 25 
OLYMPICS 
Shay, Engelhardt colllpete in Olyinpic Trials 

finish line. and the youngest top 10 finisher. With a year of college eligibility remaining, Shay looks upon his experience at the Trials as preparation for the future. 
"It's definitely a stepping stone," Shay said. "Tho least I got out of it was the experience of being in a highly competitive race with not only the bcsl col­legiatA runners but the best runners. By the next Olympic Trials, or next Olympic Games, if I k<~Pp improving consistently like I have over the next l'our years. I don't see myself not making tho team." 
Having the chance to com­prte with the elite American distanr.e runner::; let Shay become even more confident about his running ability. 
"I don't have them up on a pedestal anymore because I know that they're my competi­tion," Shay said. "I just looked at them like any competition." 
The All-American cross country and trar.k runner rel­ished the opportunity to com­pete at thfl Trials. 
"It was one of the most excit­ing. most built-up races I've ever participated in," Shay said. "Them were a lot of emo­tions going on, the chances of being able to represent not only Notre Dame, but the U.S., in the Olympic Games. was a 
see OLYMPICS/page 22 
FOOTBALL 
Davie confident Irish character will lead to wins 
By KERRY SMITH Sports Editor 
The situation outside Notre Dame Stadium looks bleak. 
With the No. 12 Purdue Boilermakers ready to steam roll through South Bend. the Irish have no quarterback with any collegiate experience to replace Arnaz Battle. who is out indefi­nitely with a broken left wrist. They are missing their leader. senior captain Grant Irons and riding a two-week emotional roller coaster of a huge win and devastating losses on and off the field. 
Bul just as it seems that the Irish are falling apart in the third week of the season. head coach Bob Davie believes he has found the glue to hold them together: character. 
"I obviously see the challenge-s [handed to the Irish]. but I like our football team," Davie said. "I think our football team has shown me an awful lot of character over the first two weeks of the season. It was something that I thought was there through the off-season, but you never know for sure until you play a football game." 
Davie is counting on his troops to rise above the challenges that have come down upon them, a team that. corning off a 5-7 1999 season, already has enough to prove. · 
"There are so many outside sit­uations, so many scenarios, but what it comes down to as a foot­ball coach is really what you feel about your team and what you feel about your preparation." said Davie. "And from that standpoint I am really encouraged." 
But character can only take a team so far. 
When the Boilermakers take the field Saturday with Heisman­candidate Dre,v Brees at the 
see FOOTBALL/page 23 



By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associate Sports Editor 
As the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney begin. two Uomers will share a bitter­sweet knowledge that they were within striking distance of competing in the Games. 
Notre Dame sent two track and field athletes to the U.S. Olympic Trials -senior dis­tance runner Ryan Shay and high jumper Jennifer Engelhardt ('00) -both of who finished among the top 10 in their events. The top three in each event qualified for the Olympics. 
Shay entered the Trials with the 14th fastest qualifying time in the 10,000-meter run. a 28 minutes. 26.91 seconds perfor­mance at the Mt. SAC Relays in April. He didn't match his per­sonal best time in the Trials with a time of 28:51.74, but placed 10th among all runners. 
"I wasn't happy with my race at all," Shay said. "I know I could have run faster. I know this much, the guy who got fourth, I beat him at Mt. SAC, Sean Found." 
A couple slow laps in the middle of the race left Shay back in 16th place. but he recovered for a 10th place fin­ish. Although he had hoped to finish higher, he was the first collegiate runner to cross the vs. Washington
at Olivet r • Volleyball ~cSPORTS 'ii Saturday, 12 p.m.

Samrday, 12 p.m.
Lady Seminol Classic at Tallahassee, Florida 
ATA 
• Friday -Saturday vs. Purdue ,.;; ar Syracuse 
-~ Saturday, 12 p.m. Samrday, 1 p.m.
~....

GLANCE 



