
Real life Bill and Ted 
E-everything 
Check out the review of the new album by Notre Dame embraces the growing world of Tuesday
Keanu Reeves' band, Dogstar. 
e-business by creating a curriculum for the Mendoza College ofBusiness' MBA program. 

SEPTEMBER 12, 
News . page 3
Scene . page 12 
2000 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIV NO. 15 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Gutierrez urges Catholics to find 'solidarity -wi.th poor' 
• Founder of liberation theology movement to speak again today 
By TIM LOGAN 
Senior News \Xlrirer 
More than 500 students 
and faculty packed the seats 
in McKenna llall Monday 
nig-ht. and spilled onto the 
carpeted floor around the 
podium. 
These hundreds who were 
then~ heard a challenge. a 
challenge to follow the words 
of the Gospel and combat 
poverty in the world. 
And what brought them 
was the challenger: Father 
Gustavo Gutierrez. a 
Peruvian priest and founder 
of the liberation theology 
movement. 
At the talk. Gutierrez out­
1ined his theology, which 
calls on Catholics to work 
for, and with, the poor 
against the forces which 
keep them in that condition. 
The central tenet of libera­
tion theology is a "preferen­
tial option for the poor," said 
Gutierrez. or finding solidar­
ity with the poor as a way to 
help them. 
"One is to be in solidarity 
with the poor and at the 
same time it is a rejection of 
poverty," said Gutierrez, 
"The question is not to imitate the poor, it is to enter the world of the poor and be ;n solidarity with them." 
Father Gustavo Gutierrez founder of liberation theology movement 
whose 1971 book "A Theology of Liberation" cat­alyzed the movement which has inspired many Catholics to serve. "This is the mean­ing of the Christian commit­ment." 
Critics have called this notion a form of solidarity with the poor communist, and many of the philosophy's proponents call it radical, but Gutierrez said that soli­darity has a larger purpose. 
"The question is not to imi­tate the poor, it is to enter the world of the poor and be in solidarity with them," he said. "Imitation is beautiful, but it's not efficacious. The poor don't need this." 
What the poor do need, Gutierrez said, is for Christians to accept the call­ing of their faith and work to combat poverty in all its forms. It is not an easy call­ing, and poverty is not easy to overcome, he said. 
It is a difficult condition to overcome, Gutierrez said. for three reasons: poverty is uni­versal, stretching all across the globe: it is complex. affecting not just the mone­tarily poor but all who are dispossessed: and, for too long, it was considered an unavoidable fate for those who were born into it. 
"For all these reasons we can say poverty is evidently a social issue, an economic issue, but at the same time it is a big challenge to Christian faith, because poverty is unhuman," Gutierrez said. 
\Ve can see Christ through the poor. Gutierrez said, and by solidarity with them, and working for them, we can both grow closer to Christ in ourselves and help combat social injustice towards oth­ers. 
And the basis for that phi­losophy is made simple. 
"Love is at the root of the preferential option for the poor," he said. "It is the love for everyone, but especially the last ones, the weak, the abandoned." 
The talk was sponsored by the Theology department as part of its Millennial Series of lectures. Gutierrez will speak again today at 4:30 
p.m. in 131 DeBartolo in a colloquium on "The Church of the Poor: John XXIII and The Council." 


Bush, Gore push towards election 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Associate News Editor 
Throughout the spring and most of the summer, many Americans -if they were pay­ing attention to national polls ­probably thought Republican nominee George W. Bush would be Lhr next president. 
T h e n came the Democratic National Convention. After trail­ing Bush for most of the campaign, Vice Prrsident Al Gore made signifi­rant gains in the polls. 
"Going into the wnventions, Bush should have been a land­slide winner." said Notre Dame government professor David LccgP. 
Now. no one knows which candidate is ahead. 


Although Bush -who labeled himself the "underdog" last Thursday -does not lead in any national poll, the race is far from finished. 
Polling the people 
Newsweek's most recent poll showed Gore leading Bush 4 7 to 39 percent 

among reg­istered vot­ers, and 49 to 41 per­cent among likely vot­ers. Many polls, how­ever. show 
Gore an even 
closer race. 
Gore )Pads Bush 47 to 46 per­cent among likely voters in the Time/CNN poll while the latest Washington Post and ABC News poll has the two candidates locked at 47 percent among reg­istered voters. 
Statistical margins of error and other factors make predict­ing results complicated. 
"There are two problems with the polls," said government pro­fessor Benjamin Radcliff. 
The first. Radcliff explained, is some polls use data from regis­tered voters, while others use data from "likely voters." Registered voters do not neces­sarily show up at the polls, even if they do support one candidate over the other. 
"Even the polls among likely voters will differ depending on how [pollstnrs] determine who's going to vote," Radcliff said. 
The second problem. accord­ing to Radcliff, is "the extent to which people have made up their minds" to support a partic­ular candidate. 
"This is an election where peo­ple will make up their minds later," Leege said. 
Some voters. however, choose strictly along party lines, 
"There are lots of people who were never going to vote Democratic or never going to vote Republican," American gov­ernment professor Christina 
see ELECTION/page 6 


"Love is at the root ofthe preferential option for the poor. It is the love for everyone, but especially the last ones, the weak, the abandoned." 
Father Gustavo Gutierrez, above, challenged a full house Monday night to follow the Gospel and fight poverty. 
. 

photos by 
PETER RICHARDSON 



Athletic departlllent reviews ticket policy 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
News Writer 
As a result of an unexpected overabundance of Nebraska fans at Saturday's game, the athletic department will be reviewing its policy on football tickets. 
"It's fair to say that all poli­cies are being reviewed. It's premature to say that any one decision will be made," said Jim Fraleigh, director for ath­letics Ticketing and Marketing. 
According to Fraleigh, all groups of ticket holders ­alumni, faculty, staff and stu­dents -had re-sold their tick­ets. 
Any der.ision regarding a change in ticket policy would involve the organizations that represent the groups of ticket holders, such as the alumni association, he said. 
"It's not a decision that will be made solely by the athletic department. It's a much big­ger issue than what most peo­ple think," Fraleigh said. 
Currently, the University does not have an official poli­cy regarding the re-sale of tickets. rather there is an alumni ongoing practice based on tradition that fans follow. 
"We are not against selling their tickets to other alumni at face value. We are against them selling [tickets) to non­alumni for significantly higher than face value prices, or scalping," Fraleigh said. 
The University reserves the right to revoke ticket privi­leges for any reason. There are not enough resources to ensure that tickets are not scalped, Fraleigh said. Alumni usually do not sell their tick-
see TICKETS/page 6 

,------------------------------------~---­
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, September 12, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 
The ball is in your court 
Maybe it's a mistake on my part to assume that my three white roommates are uncon­cerned with race and race issues. It's just that of all the issues for them to take an interest in, race doesn't come lo mind as one of the most likely. 
Even if it were a worry of theirs. I can hardly envision the four of us engaged in any sort of meaningful dis­cussion of the topic. Our dif­ferences are. perhaps, as simple as black and white. and it's almost unimagin­able lo think that any dia­

logue among us would be lit-tie morn than strained. triv- Jason McFarley  
ial utterances.  
Last weekend might have  
been our chance to get past  Copy Editor  
all that  
Picture my roomates­ 
Bill, Joe, Mike and I seated  

in front of the telrvision in our dorm room on a Friday afternoon. We're watching the semifinal round of' the U.S. Open tennis tournament, and I'm entranced by a match bAtwe.en Venus Williams and Martina I lingis. I'm screaming throughout each point. cringing at every missed shot, and desperately cheering for Williams' vic­tory. 
''I've never seen anyone so excited about a tennis match," Joe said. "Do you know her !Venus! or something?" 
I gave him the kind ol'Jook that says, "You just don't understand and probably never will," and resumed my cheering. 
Hut following Williams' win. and after some deep reflection. I wished I would have talked to Joe. I don't know. though. that he -or even I ­would have been prepared for the nasty turns that our conversation might have taken. But I, nevertheless. felt the need to explain some things to my roommate. 
I wanted to tell him that perhaps we weren't watching the same match. He likely saw two teen stars doing battle in a premiere tennis tour­nament. I, on the other hand, witnessed the fiercr,st of racial battles. 
True. them wAre no slurs or degradations exchanged between the black Williams and the white Hingis, but those kinds of negative feelings often go without saying. And my rallying behind Williams has everything to do with that. 
I wish I had the presence of mind to tell Joe that even though Williams is one of the world's lop players. she has a number of factors work­ing against her, most notably her race. Her win, then. was a victory for all blacks discounted in lheir endeavors merely because of their skin color. It was a victory, too, for each and every underdog who fights the "you can'ts" and the "you're not good enoughs." 
If applauding Williams' efforts or, for that matter. the efforts of any and all blacks, makes me a part of the racist institution that I proclaim to combat. I can't -and won't -apologize. 
My life might bA simpler if I were prone to beliefs like "an athlete is an athlete"or "a person is a person." Instead. I look for and find inspira­tion in the achievements of others like me, and I'm grateful to walk through the doors that their accomplishmenl-. open for me. 
It's not that I feel this deeply-rooted sense of obligation to my fellow African Americans, but rather that I often find it so difficult to justify these feelings to others -even the friends and roommates I have to face and live with each day. 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

Scene News Sam Derheimer Maureen Smiche Chris Scoct Killin Turner Graphics 
Kate: Steer Kacie Annis Sports Production Molly McVoy Kerry Smith 
Viewpoint Lab Tech Kurr Bogaard Pete Richardson 
·111< Ob,crvrr (USI'.\ 5'J~ 2-4000) •• publ1Shed Monday through Fnday exc,pr during exam and vacuion periods. Th, Observer is a m,mb,r of tht Asso,i,n~d Pr~ss. Al! rt'producrion righrs .u-c reserw-d. 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
'Tm not big on that "Notre Dame is 
moral victory stuff college football.,, We're Notre Dame.,, 
Keynote speaker, Dick Rocky Boiman, Notre Dame Vitale at last friilay's pep linebacker on the loss to rally Nebraska 
''I'm selling my tickets because I'm a law student and poor as hell. ,, 
Jason McKenna, class of '98 alumnus on selling out 
"Not everyone wears Abercrombie and Fitch or comes from the same culture.,, 
Paul Ybarra, mulitcultural commisioner on race relations 
Compiled from U-Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Riots rock Indiana University's campus 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 

Sunday began with chants of "We want 13obby," continued with broken lamp posts. burning public figures in effigy and police in riot gear. and P-nded after midnight with former fndiana University (JU) men's basket­ball coach Bob Knight telling protes­tors to go homo. 
Pandemonium hit campus almost immediately after the 3:15 p.m. press conference, when IU announced its decision to fire Knight. Tt only snow­balled as the night progressed until Knight sent protestors home with a promise to tell students his side of the story in the next few days. 
"I think you'll be very interested in hearing it," he told the crowd. Both Knight supporters and critics turned out early for a rally. The 

protest moved toward IU president Myles Brand's residence. Brand was still in Indianapolis at the time. The rally grew as word of mouth spread throughout campus. 
"I think the 'zero tolerance' policy they put on him doesn't allow him to be a basketball coach," said Pete Wesson. a 1999 graduate. "I think he has done a lot more for this University then he has done wrong." 
The mass of people assembled peacefully at Brand's home with police standing guard in front. 
At a later rally, George Leach. a red­shirt freshman forward for the basket­ball team, said he was disappointed with the decision. 
'Tm here for the same reason everyone is here -to support coach Knight," Leach said. "Brand just blew us off for a whole year without talking to us, so we were just left in the dark about the whole situation." 
Alumni. studenl'>, faculty and com­munity members came with signs, bullhorns and homemade T-shirts to show their support. 
SAN DIEGO STATE 
Mascot pegged racially offensive 
The "Fighting Aztec" has been the symbol of San Diego State for the past 76 years. Now, a student group on campus says it wants the mascot gone. The Native American Student Alliance (NASA) has asked the stu­dent government. the Associated Students Council (ASC) to help eliminate the mascot because they say it is offensive to the Native-American community. "It looks nothing like Aztecs today," said Rey Soto, ASC represen­tative for NASA. "A caricature like that is annoying and mocking to our native people. It would be like that with any other ethnic group. If you used a Jewish [image), how do you think the Jewish community would feel?" The ASC Council will vote on the resolution this Wednesday. If a majority votes to approve the resolu­tion. it will most likely be brought to the university sen­ate (faculty/staff government). University president Stephen Weber would make the final decision. ASC uni­versity president's designee John Gaughen said the exact path of the resolution is unclear. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5DaySalthBElld F~ 
.z>o.:t.Wsat!El:-tara:ast: for daytjJre =rli.t.icns arrl hig:, tarperat.uras 
H  L  
Tuesday Wednesday !)­Thursday Friday Saturday  Q, 71 74 74~' -b 64 -b 64  48 56 51 45 47  


q,Q,~p6ftQ tJ ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Associar«I Pr,u GraphicsN•t 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

Musicians request Napster block 
Harvard University has not yet decided how to respond to a written request from an attorney repre­senting rapper Dr. Dre and rock group Metallica urg­ing university officials to prevent students from access­ing the music sharing program Napster. University attorney Allan Ryan Jr. confirmed Friday that the General Counsel's office had received the letter. sent to university president Neil Rudenstine. Unlike similar efforts last spring to restrict student access to Napster at Yale and other schools, the letter to Rudenstine makes no explicit threat of legal action. Instead, it posits that Harvard "has a moral, ethical and legal obligation" to prevent copyright infringement over its networks. "I believe that you can easily recognize the irony of encouraging your students to matriculate in the creative arts, while engaging in behavior which. if unchecked. will make it impossible for those students to earn an income from their future creative efforts," wrote Howard King, the attorney. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Sept. 12 . 

p,.uura: ® © D High Low Shc:.-.nr• VlaAtl1ocillledPren  D R•ln  D T-1torm1  CJ FlurrlH  D Snow  ..,..  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  
Atlanta Boston Chicago Dallas Denver  87 75 72 87 83  68 60 50 71 51  Las Vagas Memphis Milwaukee New York Orlando  99 88 71 79 89  73 66 52 69 72  Phoenix Pittsburgh San Diego Seattle St. Louis  106 80 80 59 80 64 70 54 80 57  


Tuesday, September J2, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
MBA students to study e-business SMC creates club to 



By KATE NAGENGAST 
Assismnr News Editor 
In response to the drastic changes the Internet caused to modern business practices. the Mondoza CotlegP of Businf'ss created an e-commerce cur­riculum to provide students with applicable knowledge about commerce. consulting and entrl'prl'neurship. 
Approximately a year-and-a­
half ago. Carolyn Woo. dean of 
thr Mendoza College of 
Business and management pro­
fessor. Khalil Matta discussed 
llrn addition of e-commerce 
rnurses to the college's MBA 
r:urrirulum. 
"We knew we wanted to have 
a diffP.nmti,tted program -one 
that would build on the 
strengths and the reputation we 
have at Notre Dame and use the 
rr.sources we have to introdur.e 
tl11~ students to this new area nf 
business:· said Matta. 
The result of their efforts is 
the MBA track introdured this 
fall. Students begin with a gen­
eral curriculum designed to 
provide an understanding of the 
basic concepts and strategies 
associated with e-commerce. 
The students then have a 
l'hoice between e-consulting 
studies designed !'or students 
interested in working for a con­
sulting firm or becoming an e­
busi ness consultant within a 
company or e-entrepreneurship 
for students interested in start­ing their own e-business. 
"E-Consulting and e-entre­preneurship are two areas that we decided to focus on berause thev are both built on the strnngths of Notre Dame," said Matta. 
In addition to these options. all first-year MBA stu­
"£-consulting and
dents am gift, the pro­rnquired to e-entrepreneurship are gram hop<'s to attend a lec­benefit from
two areas that we 
ture series their donation
its jinedecided to focus 
held Friday through an mornings on because they are both increased throughout number of
built on the strengths of 
the year to faculty posi­gain expo­Notre Dame." . tions. techno­sure to e-logical c om me rc e resources,
Khalil Matta 

ideas. and continu­
management professor
"Ultimately I think a lot of the e-com­merce topics will become inte­grated into the required and elective r,ourses that wo offer in the college," said Matta. 
Signs of changes in business prar.tices are already evident in a growing trend for students to skip MBA work in favor of careers at Internet start-up companies. Notre Dame's MBA track. however. provides an alternative. 
Through a lab funded by Anderson Consulting. students can develop prototypes of their new Internet business ideas. 
"People with ideas for starting their own business can develop their business plan here. build a prototype while in school; get in touch with [an alumni network] to fund this prototype; and as such. reduce the risk associated with starting their own busi­ness," Matta said. 
Although e-MBA was devel­
oped before 
the Mendoza 
ing education 
programs to 
maintain a state-of-the-art status for the r.urriculum. 
The program also has hopes for expansion. Pricev,aterhouseCoopers donat­cd $150,000 to bring these e­r.ommerce. r.oncepts to the undergraduate level and encourage all areas of business to revise their offerings to include modern business issues. 
"We are hoping that the entire faculty of the college of business will be involved even­tuaUy because e-commerce does not just affect technology­oriented faculty," said Matta. 

boost athletic support 
By KATIE McVOY 
News Writer 
This year, Saint Mary's athletics will be bringing its alumni back into focus as the College begins tho Saint Mary's Belles Varsity Club. 
"This is· a great chance for us to bring alumni into [ath­letics J" athletic director Lynn Kachmarik said. 
The club, which began its early operations last year. Will enter into full swing during the 2000-2001 acad­emic year. with the approval of the College. 
"The Belles club will serve an essential role of ensuring the success of Saint Mary's athletics. continuing expan­sion of intramural and club sports and assisting us with creating a state-of-the-art personal wellness and fit­ness center for all members of the Saint Mary's commu­nity." Kachmarik said. 
The idea for the Varsity Club has its roots in athletic clubs at colleges and uni­versities around the coun­try. 
The Varsity Club will offer membership to any alum­
nae, parent of a  current  
student, faculty,  or  staff  
member.  

A contribution of $50 or 
lives such as atheltic brochures and lapel pins. A donation of $1,000 or more will guarantee membership in the College's Madeleva Society. 
Donations to the program may be restricted for use to any area of the athletic department or may be given for use as the athletic department sees fit. Restricted areas include specific varsity sports, intramurals, personal well­ness and sports medicine. 
All members of the club will receive quarterly newsletters that will detail progress i.n the athletic department. news on the current season's sports and alumni information. 
The first two newsletters will be sent to all faculty. staff, parents of current stu­dents, and alumni. A mail­ing. i.ncluding an enclosed membership application, will follow. 
"By joining the Belles Varsity Club [the member) will continue to receive our newsletter and become an important member of Saint Mary's athletic family," Kachmarik said. 
The first newsletter. planned to be mailed in the next two weeks, will contain information about fall 
more will guarantee receipt sports, the expansion of the of four newsletters per intramural program and year. Larger donations will information on the club include additional incen-itself. 
page 4 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, September 12, 2000 
Nelson: care-givers do 
U.S. welcomes Palestinian delay 
not earn adequate pay 
Associated Press 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Wrircr 

Workers in primary education, elderly and childcare and nurs­ing industries arc drastically underpaid. said Julie Nelson. a notable economist from Harvard Divinity School in a Monday night lecture tilled "For Love or Money -Or both? Gendu. .Justice, and Caring Labor." 
"Some pnoplc talk about crisis in the care-giving industry with good reason." Nelson said. 

She said workers in these industries are generally under­paid and people with master degrees in tearhing generally r.arn a mPdian annual salary of' $43,000 compared to $70,000 in othnr fiPlds. 
''Is ... work lin these indus­tries! being d()ne for love or money?" Nelson asked. She said most care-giving industry work­ers are actually motivated by both factors . 
"A higher wage may make it possi,?lc for .a caring person to care. she said. 
Nrlson warned failure to address low wages in the caring­giving industry will further con­tribute io sociNal problems such as poverty and burned-out carc­givrrs among employees. Low wages will also foster a poor cnvironm<'nt for the care recipi­nnl. 
She pointed to the 100 percnnt turnover rate among nursing care aids within the first three months of employment as proof and added that a quarter of nursing homes actually cause harm to their residents. Within the childcare industry. Nelson said inadequate care results in cognitive and brain development problems among young childrnn. 
Nelson explored and dobunked some of the justifications that people w~nerally hold for under­paying caring-industry workers. 
Arguments justifying low pay included employees receive emotional satisfar.tion in lieu of higher pay, unskilled workers should receive lower salaries than those with more mar­ketable skills and people must be satisfied with their salary if they continue to work in the same position. 
Nelson emphasized "caring labor has been unjustly under valued." She stressed "we need to fully appreciate this kind of work." 
Although the purpose of her presentation was to address why workers in these industries should receive higher salaries and not the dvnamics behind bow this sho.uld be accom­plished, she said raising the fees for higher income families and possible government subsidy for middle. and lower income fami­lies may b£' a solution. 
Monday's lecture is the lirst in a week long series of presenta­tions by Nelson that focus on feminist economic issues. 
NEWYOHK 
Secretary of State Madeleine Albright sees some breathing room for U.S. diplomacy in a decision by the Palestinians' leaders to postpone !'or two months the declaration of a state. 
With an unyielding deadlock in negotia­

t i O n s Albright between Israel and the Palestinians. however. Prime Minister Ehud Barak and Yasser Arafat are showing signs they are ready to turn a page -Barak to focus on domestic needs, Arafat possibly to defer his drive for Jerusalem to his as yet undesignated successor. And Albright, welcoming Sunday's decision by the Palestine Liberation Organization's Central Council, acknowledged Monday that American mediation efforts are in a tough patch. "There is a dil'ficull road ahead," she said at a news conference. President Clinton, addressing a dinner here Monday night honoring people who helped seek restitution for Holocaust survivors, declared: "We can­not give up on the Middle East until the whole thing is done." Clinton said he remains opti­mistic. but "the truth is that we've come to a painful choice 
between continued confronta­tion and a chance to move beyond violence to a just and 
lasting peace. Like all life's chances, this one is fleeting." The council. meeting in Gaza City, backed off from a pledge 

Students create book 
of SMC stories, history 
to declare statehood by Wednesday, the deadline set last year by Barak and Arafat for a settlement. 
The 129-membor group then adjourned for two mon tbs. deferring in the drive for state­hood to Arafat. Now 71. the onlv leader the Palestinians have known in the Israel era said that if he cannot wrest Muslim shrines in Jerusalem f'rnm Israeli control, "another onr. [leader] will come to liber­ate them." 
Barak, under fire from oppo­nents of the vast territorial and other concessions he has held out to Arafat, indicated Sunday he is running out of steam. as well. 
dead letter and no longer is held up by frustratod American nrndiators as critical. 
llaving once warned that failure to conclude an agree­ment by then could lead t<i dis­appointment and violence. and having warned rnpeatcdly that "the window is closing" for peace. US ol'licials now refer to Sept. 13 as simply an artifi­cial date whose passing need is not critical. 
Albright said the decision by thfl Palestinian Council showed "their commitment to the peace process and to continued negotiations." 
She reiterated it is up to Israel and the Palestinians to make tho 

"If it turns out that  "We cannot give up on  "hard deci­s i o n s "  
peace  is  a  the Middle East until the  required for  
d r e a m whose time  whole thing is done."  settlement. A s k c  d  
has not yet  w  h  a  
come. then I  Bill Clinton  American  
am  pre- President  mediators  
pared  to  could  do,  
transfer my  Albright said  
full  focus  without elab­ 

and energy to building bridges oration that "thorn arc various over the deep social divide combinations of' meetings and between our people," he told ~hings ,;'e am going to bn look­Jewish leaders in New York. mg at. 
His plan is to take Israel on a Barak confirmed last week secular course despite its that the Palestinians could grounding in the religious pre­have a state if' Arafat would cepts of the Old Testament. compromise on Jerusalem. At 
He has said he would invite the Camp David summit in the main opposition party, July. Barak also assured Arafat Likud. and other critics into his of taking control of almost all government to try to gain sup­the West Bank and Gaza for a port for a secular domestic state. agenda. Arafat remains steadfast in 
That would diminish peace insisting that lsrar.l also trans­prospects even further since for control of east .Jerusalem to Likud opposes concessions to the Palestinians for a capital. the Palestinians. In July, he rejected Barak's 
In the meantime. the Sept. offer to give the Palestinians 13 deadline -Wednesday -control of some neighborhoods that Barak and Arafat set for in the city and some close-in an agreement has become a suburbs. 
By l\1ARGARET HOOD 
News Wrirer 
Three Saint Mary's students are compiling College ghosl sto­ries and pride facts in a book to make people aware of Saint Mary's rich history. 
"The whole point of this book is to give somc~thing back to the College because we have received so mur.b from it over the years," said Veronica Kessenich, one of' the co-authors. 
The idea came about this sum­mer while Kessenich. junior Shelly Houser and sophomore Kristin Matha, were coaching at The Leaders of a New Indiana 11.0NI) camp. 
K11sscnich and llouser told Matha different stories about the residence halls and various buildings on campus. The stories eventually trickled down to the campers, and the response was 
to pick up an absentee ballot appllcatlon
Kauffiman Entrepreneur Intern , 
tor vour state. 

2000-2001 schoolyearjobs Ii 
II

Kickoff Meeting This Thursday ii 7:00 p.1n. Rootn 162 ' Mendoza College of Business 
I. 
I I

Co1ne listen to last su1n1ner's I! 'I 
I. 
I'

Kauff1nan Entrepreneur Interns ' Brought lo vou 11V Sbldont Government Describe their experiences! 
enormous. 
"We said it was a great idea for a book. and made a pact to pursue it," said Matha 
The pact became a reality when the three students received a grant to write the book from LONL 
"LONI is a wonderful program. and we are very excited to have been a part of it," said Matha. 
Current students. alumni, fac­

lec11on 200ulty, staff security and the sisters are compiling the stories. The three studenl'l plan on research­ing all of the residence halls, and have been working with .John Kovach, head of archives at Saint Mary's, to research the 


RegisteredID vote llul still RBBdan allSBRtBB Ila/Iott'
details. 
The book. which has yet to be named. is due out the week after spring break and proceeds from the sales will go to Saint Mary's. 
Students with stories to add should email Quiethours@saint­marys.edu. 
Come to the nonh end of DaBanolo this Wadnasdav 
b8IWIIIR 10 I¦ IDll 2 ­
:I 
---.. --. --. ----­


ATION 
Tuesday, September 12, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Tire accidents cause deaths: The pres­ident of the Japan-based Bridgestone Corp. suggested Monday that fatal accidents blamed on tires producAd by the company's U.S. sub­sidiary weren't caused by defects. While stop­ping short of blaming Ford, Yoichiro Kaizaki said it struck him that there was a high acci­dent rate only for Ford Explorers fitted with the Bridgestomi/Firestone tires and _not !'or other carmakers' vehicles that used the same prod­
ucts. 
Campground flooding claims 11 i llundn:ds of workers and police units were searching for missing people among the debris l\londay, a day after the rain-swollen waters of a stream swept away a canfpground in south­ern Italy. killing at least 11 people. At least four people were missing, civil defense official Salvatore Mottola said. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Hackers crack website: Hackers stole credit and debit card information from 15,700 online customers of Western Union, whose Web site was unprotected while undergoing maintenance. By Sunday evening, no cases of credit card fraud had been reported to the Englewood, Colo.-based company, and only customers who used the Web site to transfer money remain at risk. The company began notifying customers of the problem on Friday, when the computer attack was first detected. 
Son of shark attack victim dies: 
One of five sons of a man killed by a shark last month was found dead of an apparent drug overdose. Richard Kubinski, 44, was found by relatives Saturday at his condomini­um. His 69-year-old father. Thadeus, was attacked while swimming behind his home on the lntracoastal Waterway on Aug. 30. It was the fifth fatal shark attack in Florida waters in 25 years. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Marion teen faces move: A teenager arrested on murder charges faces extradition to Missouri for his alleged role in the death of an Arkansas man. Earl Brown, 17, was arrested Friday by two Marion police officers outside a Marion residence. 
Man's photos prove incriminating: 
A LaPorte man who had snapshots of himself taken with plants he had grown in his home made the mistake of taking the film to a developer who recognized the indoor garden as marijuana. The processor alerted authori­ties, who then tracked down the man. 
Market Watch 9/11 

Dow 
11,195.49 +25.16

]ONES 
CompositeUp: Same: Volume:
1,522 5.31 
905,024,896 

AMEX: 969,50-. _:,.1.s.s:;
• 

Nasdaq: 38%.35 -82.06 
NYSE; 677_24 +1.51' 
S&P 500: 1489.26 -5.24 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COM!'ANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -2.6850 -4.20 61.19 WOIU.llCOM INC (WCOM) +0.0625 +0.21 30.00 INTELCORI' IINTCI -0.6850 -1.05 64.69 COVAll l :oMM 1:RoU 1covrn -tl,0050 +10,91 20.38 NASDAQ IllO SHAR IQQQJ -2.3150 -2A3 92.81 
LIBYA 

Associated Press 
TRIPOLI 

A plane carrying four for­mer hostages freed by Muslim rebels in the Philippines arrived Monday in Tripoli, and one of them said their captors raped some of the female hostages. 
Risto Vahanen, a Finn who was among 21 captives held for as many as 140 days in the Philippine jun­gle, told Finnish MTV3 in an interview aired Monday that they were powerless to help the women. 
"Some, a few, women there were treated in an inappropriate manner," Vahanen said, and answered "yes" when asked if they had been raped. 
He said the raped women did not want their names disclosed but wanted the incidents to be made public. 
"They were of the opinion that it had to be made pub­lic, without names, so that the world would know what Robot had done," Vahanen said, referring to rebel leader Ghalib "Robot" Andang. 
"Jt was quite surprising because otherwise we were treated in a proper way," he said in the interview conducted before leaving the Philippines. 
The four former hostages' arrival in Tripoli, which fol­lowed their release Saturday, came amid fears that fat Libyan payoffs would only encourage more hostage taking. 
Libya reportedly paid $1 million each to secure free­dom for the German. Frenchman and two Finns, including Vahanen, who flew Monday out of the Philippines after being held for months by the Abu Sayyef, the smaller of two rebel groups fighting for an independent Muslim state in the southern part of the country. 
First to appear at the air­craft's door was Libyan negotiator Rajah Azzarouq, who triumphantly waved to the dozens of well-wishers and journalists waiting on the tarmac. The hostages followed, carrying bouquets of flowers. 

The hostages were quick to praise Libya for securing their freedom. 
"I think they have done a really great job," Vahanen said. "It may be possible that they've saved our lives." 
After showing the arrival of the aircraft. Libyan state television began broadcast­ing patriotic songs over footage of hostages and reporters inside the VIP lounge. 
Atlantis links with space station 
That's more than twice as far as the "It was really great to see that the 
Associated Pre~s 
top of the Hubble Space Telescope, station has changed since the last CAPE CANAVERAL. Fla. where other astronauts have time we were there" in May, said ;\n American astronaut and a worked. flight director Mark Ferring. He was Hussian cosmonaut floated out of The spacewalk official inside referring to the July arrival of the space shuttle Atlantis early Monday Mission Control, Mike Hess, said it long-delayed Russian control module fur a long walk up the international would be like working on the 11th Zvezda. "The assembly is starting to space station. story of a. 13-story building. pick up speed, and it's very exciting 
The spacewalkers were to be teth­for us to see," he added.
Edward Lu and Yuri Malenchcnko paired up for the grueling climb, to' ered to the structure the whole time, The crew was unable to get an air lay cable and install a boom for a with mini jetpacks on their suits for sample from the station because of navigation unit on the exterior of the added safety. bad equipment. But NASA said that 140-foot station. Atlantis linked up with the station would not prevent the seven astro­
The spacewalkers planned to ven­as the spacecraft soared nearly 230 nauts and cosmonauts from entering ture 110 feet from Atlantis' cargo miles above Kazakstan on Sunday, the complex as planned Tuesday to bay, where the space station had ending a two-day chase complicated deliver thousands of pounds of sup­been anchored for the past day. slightly by a failed navigation device plies for the first residents, due in 
aboard the shuttle, November. 
f)agt' 6 lhe Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September IL, 2000 
.---:::~:--:===:-=-=============================================================--=--=-=-=-=-=--=-=-=-=-=--=-=-=-=--=-== 
Election 
conti1111ecl from page I 
\\'0Jlm,d1! said. 

On llw 11tl11•r hand, slw poinLPd 1111I. tlwn• an• ., lot ol' i11dpp1•n­d.-11I v11t1•rs. m,lll\ of ,,ho!ll havr 
not dPrid1·d whi;-h ra11didat1• lo su µpurl. 
liadrlill. 1to,,Pv1•r. bPliPVl'S mos! v11tpp; hav,• madP up tll!'ir minds at this point i11 llw rn1·1• 
l'ast history i11dirat1•s voLPrs may 111ak1· up thl'ir minds by Parly SPptPrnb1•r. Ovpr tlw past :iO yPars. tlw pri•sidl'nlial ra11di­d11LPs with a signilil'ant IPad 1111 l.abor llay Wl'nt on lO win in :'Jowmlwr. IID,wv1•r. that Lrt•nd is not rt'lt•vanl in this t>lt>t·lion Vl'ar. 
"Wlwn rnw rnndidatl' is ,:lrarlv alwad i.:oing into l.abor Dav. th.~t maxim holds. but ,witlwr ~·andi­d a tP had a l'!Par lr•ad." said 1.1'1'1,\I'. "It's a \'Pt)' rlosP r,LCI'." 
or ('Olll'SI'' national polls do not dl'lPrlllin1• llw oulronw of' l\ll'l',­lions -th(• PIP<·tnral collPg1• doPs. To win. a randidatr must rl'rl'iVP 270 l'll'<'toral volt's l'rorn llw stall's 
Electoral College up for grabs 
Fx1wrts disa).;rt'I' as lo wlwllwr Hush or (;or,· art' ll'itding in (p1·m-; ol' t•lt•t·!ornl volt's. 
"()11 Uwt basis. al Llw monwnt, lsush looks sI1mI•\1 hill slrnngPr ... But (;on· may hav1· Llw Pdg1• 011 tlw issuPs and in his mast<•ry of till' rapid-rPspons1• LPchniqu;:s that will dominall' tlH\ Pnclganw." arrnrding lo a SPp!. 11 U.S. NPws and World llq)Orl article. 
"l\1v m,·n sP11s1• is that Corf' is going to win." Baddiff said. 
Baclt-liff arguPd Gor<' is crrlain lo win a fl',\ statPs. such as Calil'ornia and !\It'\\ York. whill' Bush is l'1' rtai n to win otl1Pr stall's, sul'h as TP.xas, Thnrn an' otlwr "loss-up.. st:tt1is wlwn• tlw ,,vi111wr is still unclear 
11<' bl'lic•v1's Bush will ,vin tilt' toss-up slalP or Ohio. whil1• (;orn will win the• toss-up statns of Illinois. Michigan and Wisconsin. 
'"Tlw 1•l1•ction is ovPr ii' Corl' 
rnn ,.,·in l'1'nnsylvania,'' llw linal 
loss up stal<'. al'cording Lo 
Hadr·liff 
A four-way race 
Bush and Cor<' am not tlw only ea11didat1is running f'rn· presidPnt this vnar (;nit\11 l>ar!v randidatP Halp.h NurlPr and lh:l'orm Party (:andidatP Pat Buchanan ai·11 also 1•xp<>rt!'d to br on tlw ballot in N11v1m1bPr 
A f'our-v,:av racP is "much morl' dillirult to prrdil'L." ,tr.cording Lo I.cl'){<\. Nadl'r may lw pulling lib­Pral v11tPrs from Cort>'s kl'!. whil<' Buchanan wiJI bi• pullillg consnr­vativl' votPrs from Bush's right. 
Currt'nlly. 4 p1!rc1•nl of' likl'ly voters support Nader and I p!'r­c1• n t of' likf•lv vut<'l'S back Buchanan. ac·cording lo lhP Tinw/CNN poll. 
HadclilT said Buchanan is not signil'ic·antly HITPrling llw rarP bPrausP divisions wilhin thP Hnl'orm Party prf'Vl'lll him from rn1·l'iving money l'rom tlw 1-'i•dPral Election Commission. 
"II<' l'ould b1•1·umc• important latPr if IJ,, can gPl his hands 011 (hilt I1L r g f' Ch U 11 k IJ I' Ill O 11 I~ y," Haddiff said. 
Similarlv. Nadl'r will haw 11nlv a "margi~al" effocl, acrnrding l;i Hade liff. WhilP NadPr mu Id takP sonw votf's awav from c;or<'. ltackliff said GorP;s movP to thP 111ft silH'I' the DC'mocratic. conven­tion will convince thos<' voters lo support Gon1. 
Tlw convPntion appears to have bnnn a major boost lo Gorr,'s campaign. Candidates usually go up in thn polls immndiatnly fol­lowing tlwir convnntions and. right now. (;01'1\ appPars t.o bn. holding onto his gain. 
"(;om got a large bump out or tlw conv<'ntions and has brH'll able to hold onto that." BadrlilT said. 
llad!'liff (\Xplai1wcl thP l)pmocrali1: National Convnntion was dPsig,wd to "PIPctrily" tradi­tional lkmorrntir ronstit.u<•nl'il's such as labor. wonwn ·s nnd minority's groups. 
ThP qu<'slion now r<'mains ,,vhl'tlwr Corp will bl' ablP to maintain his nt~w support. 
VPs not secondary players 
Voters will not simply br, r.hoos­i11g b<'IWPPll Hush and (;or!' on Nov. 7 -llw can<li<lalcs' running matns will play a factor as well. Gorp's choi,~P to run with Con1w1·ti<:ut Snnalor ./oP Li<'b<'rman and Bush's choir.P ol' T1\xas businessman Dick CIH'ncv could b(1 an important fact.or ii1 d!'t'iding !hnir vote. 
Luegti 1,aid Im bPliPvns Li<'bcrmnn is a positive addition to thP Dcmorrntir tir.knt. 
"Jot> J.iPb<'rman lwlpPd him im mt>nsPIV bf'<·aust' LiPlwrman brings nc:dibility Lo tlw diffn­PncPs bPl\Vl'l'll Clinton and Gorp,'' L«'Pg<' said. 
On Llw ollwr hand. Bush mav lw hurl bv Clw,rnv. who S<•rvPd as <lc·f'l'mw ~c',:r1•ta/v undn Bush's ratlwr. I.PP!,;P sail 
"I think that Clw,wv arLuallv hurt Bush," l.cpg1• said. "Ill sug­gt'sts that] lw rwPdPd an old hand around to rPassurP votPrs." 
The uprnming prnsidnntial dPbatcs will also shap<' tlw way vot<>rs view the candidaws. 
"I think Georg<' Bush has an opportunity to allay sonw fears prrnplP hav<' about him," Wolbrecht said. 
Tickets 
continued from page I 

nts. which am n•cniwd through tlw annual l'ootball Lirkct lottnry. dirnctly lo rans l'rom llH• otlrnr tnam. Jin addnd. lnstnad. tlrny sPll tlw tic:knts lo ol.lwr alumni. who might sc·II tlw tickets to !'ans l'rom tlw opposing INLlll. Sinn' opposing rans do no! obtain tlw tickl'ts 11rst-hand. it is !'Vl'n nwn· dil"­lkult to control scalping. 
"In roality. w<i haw a limitPd staff.'' said h·alPigh. "ll is virtually impossibl1• for us to track any situation." 
Do you like to write? 
Would you like to write for The Observer? 
Call 1-5323. 

Tuesday, September 12, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Temple visit organizer praises Gore 
Associ:atecl Press 
WASHINGTON 

A \voman at the r,enter of one of Vice President Al Gore's fund­raising controversies says he should be proud that he visited 


the Ruddhist temple where money was illegally raised for the Demorratic Party. 
"lie shou Id not feel embarrassed or ashamed of relating to 
Gore 

the t;:mple," Maria Hsia told The New Yorker magazine in her first interview since her March con­viction for making l'ulse state­ments in the casP. "He should feel very proud of himself." 
She praised Gore for reaching out to all cultures and advised, "He should say, 'Look, this is no different from people visiting the black churches or any churches or a Jewish temple. There's noth­ing wrong.'" 
"All politicians are cowards," :;he said. "But they could be bet­ter rowards." 
llsia, pronounced "sha," is awaiting sentencing on five felony r,ounts of causing false statements to be filed with the Federal Election Commission. Each charge carries a live-year maximum prison term. She has asked for a new trial. 
A Justice Department ta::;k force continues to inv0stigate 1996 campaign finance activities and Gore's role in them, but Attorney General Janet neno declined to appoint a special counsel to determine whether the vice president lied about whether he knew the Buddhist temple event was a f'undraiser and about how many White House coffees he had attended, 
Morn than $100,000 was ille-. gaily raised for President Clinton, Gore and other Democrats at the April 1996 event. 
Republicans have made Gore's integrity an issue in his Democratic presidential cam­paign by releasing an ad pointing to his temple visit in Hacienda Heighl.s, Calif. 
Gorn said after the event that he hadn't known he wa::; attend­ing a fundraiser. After docu­ments turned up referring to the event in advance as a fundraiser, Gore modified his characteriza­tion, saying he had thought it was a finance-related event. 
A fundraising event was initial­ly scheduled at a nearby restau­rant and a rally was planned for the temple, but when Gore's staff said he couldn't make both. the two events were combined at the temple, Hsia said. 
She said she raised questions with fundraiscr John Huang about whether it was OK to use the temple, "because I know this is a religious facility," and wa::; assured there would be no prob­lem. Huang later pleaded guilty to conspiring to contravene cam­paign finance laws. 
NEED A DATE? 
Want to earn some money? Shop Online? 
Try themichianacollegeconnection.tarra1hara.com 

Study: DUU1y children left without day care 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Despite attempts to lower child-care costs and expand choices, many children are left alone after school ends and before their parents come home from work. 
One in five children ages 6 to 12 are regularly left with­out adult supervision after school, according to a survey of work­ing par­
entc;. "Millions ofchildren they can, Older cobbling
wihout care in the hours 
children things
after school are in
are more together likely to harm's way. " from one spend day to the t h e i r next," said
Bill Clinton
after­L o i s 
President of the United States
school Salisbury, 
age children is clearly a fact of life for millions of working families," said report co­author Gina Adams, an Urban Institute researcher. 
The report, based on a telephone survey of more than 44,000 households in 1997, does not explain why parents make the choices they do. 
"I'm sure they are anguish­ing and struggling and talk­ing to their kids on the phone as fre­quently as 

hours ho m e alone rather than in day­care, activities at school or under the supervision of a relative or baby sitter, researchers at th~ nonparti­san Urban Institute reported Monday. 
They also found that more affluent, nonminority work­ers reported leaving children home alone even if they worked 9-to-5 jobs. That sur­prised some analysts and parents who believed the main barrier to supervision was cost. 
"Self-care among school-
director of 

Children Now, an Oakland, Calif.­based group that deals with the affect on families of health care. media and tax policies. 
Researchers, policy-mak­ers and child advocates say the time any child spends unsupervised is filled with risks such as injury, drug use, falling behind in studies. 
"Millions of children with­out care in the hours after school are in harm's way," President Clinton said in a statement. He is seeking $1 billion for after-school pro­grams for 2 million children. 

LONDONPROG APPLICATION MEETING 
FOR FALL 2001 AND SPRING 2002 
Tuesday, September 12, 2000 101 DeBartolo 6:30 pm 
ALL SOPHOMORES WELCOME! 

page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, September 12, 2000 
AUSTRALIA 
Thousands of protesters target economic sunnnit down under 
. Cars vandalized as protestors try to enter forum  Court condemned the pro­testers as a "mob." "They basically slashed the tires, painted the car. jumped up and down on the roof, the boot," he said. "It was un­ cials to discuss the global economy. Government leaders and business executives, including Microsoft's Bill Gates, were to discuss future economic development in Asia.  ranee of what the forum is and what it stands for," Smadja said. "The aim is not to pro­mote globalization. The aim is to discuss the issues raised by globalization."  day and police patrolled hotels used by summit delegates. One group inconvenienced by the protest was the U.S. Olympic women's basketball team. which missed a 9 a.m.  
A«ocia red Press  Australian and marked a sad day for the nation's history."  Protest organizer Glanz said he  David  About two hours before the summit was  training Sllssion after being stranded in the casino hotel  
MELHOUHNE  Another state politician's car  considered  to  begin.  lobby because its bus could not  
Screaming protesters clashed with police Monday and vandalized the cars of del­egatos trying to enter an  was sprayed with the slogan "WEF kills." Buses carrying dozens of delegates were unable to pass through the  the demon­stration a success despite the  "They basically slashed the tires, painted the car, jumped up and down on  thousands of protesters gathered as police boats  penetrate the crowd of protest­ers. The team. in Melbourne to play exhibition matches before the Sept. 15-0ct. 1 Sydney  
international economic forum -the latest target of an anti­globalization movement. Thousands of demonstrators  crowd. A police spokesman speaking on condition of anonymity said two officers were hospitalized  violence, which ho said was limited to the  the rooJ; the boot. It was Im-Australian and marked a sad day for the  patrolled the nearby Yarra River and a helicopter  Olympics. later walked through the protest and caught a bus. "We realize that there are  
surrounding: the hotel and casino complex where the three-day Asia-Pacil'ic Economic Summit is being  for injuries sustained in the crush. Two protesters were arrested "on suspicion of assaulting police." They were  "fringe." "I think the people who have felt  nation's history. " Richard Court  buzzed over­head. Dozens of groups, from pupils  bigger things going on in the world than our practice so we've pretty much learned to just be flexible," said Carol  
held. They delayed the start of  released but would be charged  some of that  Western Australia state Premier  at an  exr.l u­ Callan, a team spokeswoman  
the event organized by the  later, the spokesman said.  anger [from  s i ve  girls'  After the summit was under  
Switzerland-based  World  The violence quieted quickly,  protesters]  college  to  way, Chinese Foreign Trade  
Economic Forum.  although  tense  standoffs  have to realize that if they con­ gays claiming they are exploit­ Minister  Shi  Guangsheng  
One  delegate,  Western  between police and protesters  tinue pushing through privati­ ed by corporate greed to Green  addressed the delegates about  
Australia  state  Premier  r.ontinued at several entrances  zation and cutbacks, then they  lawmakers, said they would  his country's likely ascension  
Hkhard Court, was  trapped in  to  the complex. Most of the  must expect to meet the anger  march Monday.  to membership in the WTO.  
his r.ar for about 20 minutes as  800 registered delegates were  of the people," Glanz said.  Fearing violent protests like  "China's reform and opening  
a crowd of protesters jumped  able to enter the eomplex. con­ Conference  spokesman  those in Seattle at last year's  up will enter a  nr,w phase of  
nn  it and slashed its tires.  ference organizers said. The  Claude Smadja slammed the  World  Trade  Organization  development and realize  new  
Angry clashes broke out as  start was delayed by less than  protest. saying the WEF was  talks, Nike closed its nagship  growth of its national  econo­ 
police.  some  on  horseback,  an hour.  the wrong target for opponents  Melbourne store on Sunday  my," Shi said. He said Asia's  
broke through the crowd to  The forum brings together  of globalization.  and boarded up the windows.  fate is tied to the positive ben­ 
allow Court's car to pass.  business and government offi­ "It is done out of sheer igno- Other stores also closed for the  efits of economic globalization.  



------. ---------------------------~~--------------------------------------~-------. 
Tuesday, September 12, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
COLOMBIA 
Citizens march for peace in capital 
Associated Press 
BOGOTA 

Thousands of Colombians waving white flags pourr~d through the streets of Bogota Sunday to call for an end to der,ades of lighting betwern the government and rebel groups, a conflict that has claimed nearly l .400 r.ivilian lives so far this year. 
The march. which filled an avenue of the capital and wound through the center of the city, c:ame as pear,e talks between the two sides have stalled. and as the United StatAs is pumping $1.3 billion i11 mostly military aid to Columbia 
Business leaders and union chiefs, politicians and average citizens marched together in an event organized by some 200 civic groups. Unofficial crowd estimates ranged from 10,000 to 20,000. 
"We're sick or the violence," said Eugenio Marulanda. presi­dent of Colombia's chambers of cornrnercr.. "Wr. are a kid­
napped country. A murdered country. A bloodied country." 
In addition to the more than three-decade-old war between leftist rebels and the govern­ment. Colombia has one of the highest murder and kidnapping rates in the world. Right-wing paramilitary squads are also murdering more and more sus­pected sympathizers of the rebel Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, known as the FARC. and the National Liberation Army. called the ELN. 
In tlrn first eight months of this year, '1,389 civilians have been massacred by either the two main rebel armies or the paramilitary squads, according to the government human rights office. 
"No more FARC, no more ELN, no to kidnapping. yes to life," read a sign held by Stella Cortes. an accountant. 
Among the marchers were children who carried large pho­tos of thflir fathers who are sol­diers or police and are being held captive by the FAHC, lhe larger of the rebel groups. It currently holds more than 500 security-force members captive and has offered to free them in exchange for the release of rebels held prisoner by the gov­ernment. Thfl government of President Andres Pastrana has 
refused. 
In VPnezucla, a newspaper quoted a FARC leader as prediciting that the U.S.-backed Plan Colombia would result in thousands more-people killed and spur massive migrations to neighboring countries. The U.S. and Colombian governments say the plan is aimed at seizing the country's drug-producing areas. 
The plan is actually aimed at stamping out "political and social opposition groups," like FARC, Ruben Zamora was quoted in Sunday's editions of El Universal as saying 
The FARC, which earns mil­lions of dollars a week in pro­tecting and taxing producers of cocaine and heroin in Colombia, has vowed to combat the initiative. 


While TIAA-CREF 
invests fer the long term, it's nice to see performance like this. 



















TIAA-CREF has delivered impres,, _-~ results like these by combining two disciplined investment strategies. 
In our CREF Growth Account, one of many CREF vari­able annuities, we combine active management with enhanced indexing. With two strategies, we have 
1YEAR 5YEARS 
SINCE INCEPTION AS OF 6/30/00 
6/30/00 
4/29/94

two ways to seek out performance opportunities­helping to make your investments work twice as hard. 
This approach also allows Combine this team approach with our low expenses
EXPENSE RATIO 

us to adapt our investments and you'!! see how TIAA-CREF stands apart from 
INDUSTRY

CRH GROWTH 
to different market the competition. Cal! and find out how TIAA-CREF 
AVERAGEACCOUNT 

conditions, which is can work for you today and tomorrow. 
0.32'!1,l 
especially important during
2.09"2 

volatile economic times. 
Ensuring the future 
1.800.842.2776
for those who shape it."' 
www.tiaa-cref. ~rg 
For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, tor ,;t prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest 1. TIAA-CRH expenses reflect the waiver of aportion of the Funds' investmem. .Jement fees, guaranteed until July 1, 2003. 2. Source: Morningstar, Inc. 6/30/00, tracking 939 average large-cap growth annuity funds. 3. Due to current market volatility, our securities products' performance today may be less than shown above. The investment results shown for CREF Growth variable annuity reflect past performance and are not indicative of future rates of return. Thes•. •durns and the value of the principal you have invested will fluctuate, so the shares you own may be more or less than their original pnce up.on redemption. • TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the CREF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities. • Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings aqreements. • TIM and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co , New York, NY, issue imurance and annuities. • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB proviu trust services. • Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guarJnteed. © 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03 
ENGLAND 
No evidence found on origin of AIDS virus 
traces of genetic material
Associated Press 
from animals. Two independent laborato­
LONDON 

ries -the Max-Planck
Independent laboratory 

Institute in Leipzig, Germanytests have found no evidence and Paris's Pasteur Institute,to support the theory that an 
the lab where HIV was firstexperimental polio vaccine 
isolated -were given vaccine
used on about 1 million 
samples to test.
Africans in the 1950s inadver­The tests revealed the sam­tently triggered the AIDS epi­ples were made using monkeydemic. 
tissue and found no chimpThe findings. presented 
DNA, said Claudio Basilico,Monday at a conference at the chairman of
R o y a l 
the microbi­

Society in 
o I o g y

London. "Does this definately rule 
department

found no out the uaccine theory? 
at New

evidence 
No, but it makes it more Y o r k
that the University
vaccine, unlikely." 
School of

adminis­
M cd icine.

t e r e d 
Claudio Basilico 
told the sci­

between 
chainnan of microbiolgy entists.
1957 and 1961, con­department at New York Basilica chaired a
tained any University 
tissue from c h i m ­panzees. 
Scientists believe that HIV. the virus that causes AIDS, most probably originates from the type of SIV. or simian immunodeficiency virus. found in chimpanzees in west­ern central Africa. But they don't know how or when the chimp virus got into humans. 
The prevailing theory is that a hunter became infected after being scratched by a chimp when trying to capture it or after cutting himself while butchering the animal. However, some experts sus­pect that polio vaccine made with contaminated chim­panzee cells may have been the culprit. 
In the latest tests, samples of four different supplies of the vaccine, including some used in the African immuniza­tion program, were tested for 
committee 
of scientists 

set up by Philadelphia's Wis tar Institute, the research insti­tute which produced the vac­cine, to investigate claims that chimp tissue might have been used. 
"Does this definitively rule out the vaccine theory? No, but it makes it more unlikely," Basilico said. He said record­keeping was sketchy at the time and that there may have been other samples not tested that were used in Africa. 
The tests were also designed to find traces of SIV and found none. But that may not be important, Basilico said, because the virus could have died out after 40 years in a freezer. 
The findings did not damp­en the views of writer Edward Hooper. chief proponent of the polio vaccine theory. 
ENGLISH MAJOR CAREER NIGHT 
Wednesday, September 13 7 p.m. 102 DeBartolo Hall 
Meet representatives of fields in which English majors often find employment. Learn about the skills employers seek and often find in English majors: 
Advertising Higher Education Publishing Consulting Journalism Marketing Law Financial Services Human Resources Teaching Volunteer Programs 
Open to all students, whatever their majors. Refreshments will be served. 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 OBSERVER Tuesday, September 12, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Nom Dame. IN 46556 024 Sourh LJining H•II. Notrr Dame, IN 46556 

EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly MANAGING EDITOR 8USINES~ MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane ASST. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER Christine Kraly Brian Kessler 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mauingly VIEWPOINT EotTOR: Lil., Haughey SroRTS EDITOR: Kerry Smi1h SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy P110To EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
A.DVF.RTIStNG MANAGER: Par Peters AD DFSIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTF.MS AUMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville Wm ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROI.LER: Boh Woods GRAPIHCS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGFR/GENERAL INFO.............631-7471 FAX ............................................................ . 631-6927 AoVF.RIISING ....................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIH ........................................ 631-4 542 MANAGING EDITO!t/A.,;sT. ME...................631-4541 BUSINESS 0FF1CE.. .....................................631-5313 NEWS ......................................................... 631-5323 
observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS . ......................................................631-4543 observer.spons. l@nd.edu 
SCENE .....................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. I@nd.edu PHOTO... ...................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WED AUM INISTRATORS.................631-8839 • 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE Visit our Web site at lmp:llob1erver.nd.edu for daily updates ofcarnpu.s news. spom. features and opinion columns. as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from 1hr Associated Press. 
SllRf TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
wed<ly student reviews

minute tOrccasrs 
online features for spe­

advertise for policies 
cial campus coverage

and rates of print ads 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
10 meet the editors and 

articles published alter 
August 1999 
staff 

• POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and on line by the students of1he Universi1y of None Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's CoJlegc. Editorial conrem, including advertisements, is not govrrne,I by policies of the administration ofeither instimtion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriiy of the Editor in Chief, Managing Edicor, Assisrant Managing Ediror and department editors. Commemaries, let1ers and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space rs available 10 all readers. The fr« nprmrun uf all upin1ons through lmers is encouraged. L~rters ro the Editor musr be signed and musr include contact information. 
Q11mio11J regarding Oburvrr policies ,hould br dirm­ed to Editor in Chirf Milu Connolly. 

Three Supreme Court cases last June provide a look at what passes for consti­tutional law (or what is left of it) these days. 
First, in Stenberg v. Carhart, the Court held unconstitutional Nebraska's prohi­bition of "partial birth abortion" (PBA). In other types of abortion the child is killed inside the mother, by vacuum suction, injection or dismemberment. PBA involves killing the child aftr,r par­tial delivery. 
As dissenting Justice Clarence Thomas described the PBA, "After dilating the cervix, the physician will grab the fetus by its feet and pull the fetal body out of the uterus into the vaginal cavity. At this stage of development, the head is the largest part of the body. Assuming the physician has performed the dilation procedure correctly, the head will be held inside the uterus by the woman's cervix. While the fetus is stuck in this position, dangling partly out of the woman's body, and just a few inches from a completed birth, the physician uses an instrument such as a pair of scis­sors to tear or perforate the skull. The physician will then either crush the skull or will use a vacuum to remove the brain and other intracranial contents from the fetal skull, collapse the fetus' head, and pull the fetus from the uterus." 
The Court, by a 5-4 vote, struck down the PBA prohibition for two reasons. First, because it did not allow PBA to preserve the "health of the mother." "[Tlhe Court must know," said dissenting Justice Anton Scalia, "that demanding a 'health exception' which requires the abortionist to assure himself that, in his expert medical judgment, this method is ... marginally safer than others (how can one prove the contrary beyond a reason­able doubt?) is to give live-birth abortion free rein." 


The second reason the Court struck down the Nebraska law was because it could prohibit not only PBA but also "dilation and evacuation" (D&E), the "most commonly used procedure during the second trimester." Concurring Justice John Paul Stevens said he found "no reason to believe that [PBA] is more brutal, more gruesome, or less respectful of 'potential life' than the equally grue­some procedure Nebraska claims it still allows." 
And concurring Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg agreed that, "the most common method of performing pre-viability sec­ond trimester abortions is no less dis­tressing or susceptible to gruesome description." Stevens and Ginsburg got that one right. The "equally gruesome" D&E abortion, as clinically described by the Court, "involves (1) dilation of the cervix; (2) removal of ... fetal tissue using non-vacuum instruments; and (3) (after thel 5th week} the potential need for instrumental disarticulation or dismem­berment of the fetus or the collapse of fetal parts to facilitate evacuation from the uterus." 
The PBA ruling confirms the Court will permit no law to prohibit any method of abortion at any stage. The PBA prohibi­tion, incidentally, was symbolic. It would not have prevented a single abortion. Jt prohibited only the killing of a partially delivered, living baby; the abortionist could evade it by killing the child inside the womb. 
The Pl3A decision, however, shows the face of the culture of death. In the words of Scalia, "The method of killing a human child one cannot even accurately say an entirely unborn human child ­proscribed by this statute is so horrible that the most clinical desc:ription of it evokes a shudder of revulsion." 
The second case is I lill v. Colorado, where the Court upheld a statute restricting the right to "knowingly approach" within eight feet of uncon­senting persons to communicate with them within 100 feet of a health care facility. As the case confirms, abortion opponents are subject to greater restric­tions on peaceful speech than are any other persons. 
"Having deprived abortion opponents of the ... right to persuade the electorate that abortion should be restricted by law," said Scalia, "the Court today ... expands its assault upon their ... right to persuade women contemplating abortion that [it] is wrong." 
The third case is Santa Fe Independent School District v. Doe, where the Court forbade a public school district to allow a student-initiated and student-led prayer before a football game. In his dissent. Chief Justice William Hehnquist accu­rately said, "The Court distorts ... prece­dent (and] the tone of the court's opinion ... bristles with hostility to all things reli­gious in public life." 
The three cases are relatnd. The Court forbids the people to afiirm in their pub­lic capacity that God is the source of inalienable rights. We ought not to be surprised at the result. The quote is wrongly attributed to Dostoevsky, but it remains true that "I!'God dons not exist, then everything is permitted." Even the legal protection of baby killers as a privi­leged class. 
Charles Rice is a professor in the Notre Dame law School. His column appears euery other Tuesday. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessar­ily those of The Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 

.-~~~=~~~~-, !E---------­~ 
HID THE tMER­

j WHO PLA.YS WITH ~ 
THE SHORT
GENC'( rl/i..SHLIGHT$ 

Ii "' FLA5HLIGHT5? lu 
JEDI WILL
SO NO ONE CAN 

] THAT'S THE DUMBEST ~
PLAY WITH THEM. 

DIE FIR&T/

§ THING I'VE EVER I 
E HEARD. -;
8 C: 
t ~ 
~ £ 
~I N',~:;;-~,i Q 
.___....,;;::;;;:;::~...--i;C.;:::.C..JJ.... .::-_____ 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Look, when that crowd gets to cheering, when we know they're with us, when we know they like us, we play better. A hell of a lot better.'" 
Bill Carlin athlete 
-----~===---------===:::__---====~--~===-----­
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Tuesday, September 12, 2000 BSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Adapting saves the environment 
ln He!Tterhof, Salzburg, lnnsbruckers place of residence, all of the lights work on timers. A stay in the shower of longer than 15 min­utes guarantees an abrupt descent into darkness and a desperate cry to a (hopefully) sympathetic roommate to reset the light. 
Outside of the kitchen stand four trash cans: one for cardboard, orn1 for plastic, one for aluminum and one for biodegrable waste. 
The parking lot across the street noticeably lacks the Chevrolet Suburbans and the Ford Explorers that dominate the asphalt fields ouside of American malls and corporate centers. The Austrian version of the sport utility vehicle most closely resembles a Toyota Rav 4 with a growth disorder. 
The sidewalks outside of the residence and throughout the city ofSalzlrnrg shine spotless and trash free following a September rain storm. Meanwhile, we Anrnricans struggle to adopt this environmentally friendly lifestyle that allows us to view clearly the tips of the Alps from Hetfterhofs balconies. 
We noisely lament the lack of ice in our soda and the warmth of our beer. (Certain guys in the group have resorted to the war tactic of ferociously guarding a secret stash of ice in the miniscule hall freezer.) The women in our group whine about the low voltage outlets that prohibit conveniently high powered blow dryers. 
In some cases the adjustment to this new way of life has been just as traumatic as thn attempt to master the particularly Austrian form of German spoke in Salzburg. On the first day Mrs. Gurtler who lrnlps to run the study abroad program in [nnsbruck loudly scolded a student for disposing of shampoo covered batteries in a bathroom waste basket. (The batteries needed to be taken to the super market or mall to be recycled.) 
At the airport in Vienna I held onto a plastic drink bottle because I did not know into which colored trash can I should dispose of it. 
The vastness of our country and its seemingly unending supply of natural resources have permitted us to maintain habits that stand in stark contrast to the respectful and mindful environmental routines practiced in Austria, a country lacking a Texas to provide oil and grPat plains onto which residents can dump bottles, cans or spare tires. 
And yet Americans must wonder how much longer we will have ·foxas or the great plains that graciously allow us to ignore the affect of the American lifestyle on the ozone layer, on the water supply and on the land quality. As the development continues near my home­town outside of Philadelphia. arguments rage two hours north over the spaces of Appalachian mountains that will hold the waste creat­ed by the new businesses and homes two hours to the south. 
This summer, scientists arrived at the North Pole to find that for the first time Santa's home rested in a flood of ocean. Gas prices rose. this year for many reasons. including the greed of oil producers and the manipulation ol' OPEC. 
1lowever Americans need to recognize an underlying reason for the hike in thecost of oil: the unrenewable nature of this msource essential to American society's survival. 
Fortunately for Americans, the economic boom of recent years has allownd the country to ignore the signs of diminishing environ­nrnntal wealth. Americans in the Midwest complained about the $2.50 price per gallon but still possessed the means to fill up the gas guzzling engines of their brand new Hummers. 
In the ongoing prnsidcntial campaign Al Gore has attempted, with liltle success, to call the attention of Americans to the decreasing quality of your environment. He has utilized this tactic mostly to dis­tinguish himself from George W. Rush who as governor of Texas has allowed industries to manufacture and to trade with few restrictions on smog or waste production. Should Al Gore triumph on Election Day he will face a great challenge to pass any such legislation, espe­cially if Republicans remain in control of Congress. 
Yet the difficulty of our group to adjust to a conservationi(it and environmentally conscious lifestyle suggests that Gore would have a much greater task in convincing Americans to change their ways. Americans depend upon cars and plastic drink cups and the con­vience of pre-packaged, singly wrapped food. Some large cities lack even minimal public transportation. 
Yet perhaps hope remains. Most of lnnsbruckers enjoy the possi­blity of returning our alcohol bottles for a deposit. I challenge myself every morning to finish my shower before the light goes out. (I give myself extra points if I brush my teeth as well in only one turn of the timer.) Most importantly I hope that all the Innsbruckers, including myself, learn to maintain the mindful, conservationist habits that we havH been forced to adopt during our first weeks in Salzburg. 
Joanna Mikulski is a sophomore spending her semester abroad in the Innsbruck program. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Seeing red at Notre Dame 
I know that many of you are disappointed in the alumni and "sell-outs" that gave their tickets away to the loyal 'Husker fans drooling for their chance to V\itness a little piece of history. Anyone would be angered to see opposing colors outnumber the Blue-Gold. You need to realize that as a 'Husker fan, I was so embara.sscd that your fans kept our fans quiet! If you hadn't noticed, our fans were in awe of the tradition being brought before our eyes and those Irish fans that did attend the game, kept the 'Husker fans out of the game completely. 
Jeff Guenin 
junior Univ~rsicy ofNebraska-Lincoln September 10, 2000 
Last year, on a number of occasions, the alumni wrote to The Observer describing their contempt for the stu­dent body's lack of spirit and integrity. Last Saturday, the alumni who sold out their school showed the lack of spirit and integrity. 
Lee Corso summed it all up the best when he said, "It was an embarrassment for Notre Dame to see their stadium in a sea of red. I can't believe it happened." Neither can we, Mr. Corso, neither can we. 
And our hearts forever, love thee ... precious cash. 
Robert Hutchison Justin Szalanski Mike Siefring 
sophomores Zahm Hall September 10. 2000 

On behalf of my fellow alum­ni, I would like to apologize to the football team and to all Notre Dame students, for the actions of a large portion of my fellow alumni (and. it would appear, season ticket holders) who scalped their tickets and con­tributed to the embarrassing sea of red which overwhelmed the campus. I was fortunate to have won three tick­ets to the game and was happy to have two of my three sons with me. 1am sorry that the alumni failed to match the enthusi­asm and school spirit expressed by the ND stu­dent body. 
Stephen E. Hoey class of'81 September I I, 2000 
Unfortunately, thousands of Irish fans who should have been in the stands giving the Nebraska offense fits were outside in parking lots or at home in their living rooms. Our alumni, most of whom are compensated quite nicely for their work at least partially because of their Notre Dame education and experience, opted to put green in their pockets instead of the stands. What a shame. 
Greg Wright junior Morrissey Manor 
Tony Lusvardi 
junior Zahm Hall 

Brendan P. Harris 
junior Alumni Hall September I I, 2000 
Colleagues holding faculty/staff season football 
tickets who have, during either or both of this 
season's games. sold their tickets and particular­
ly those who knowingly sold them to supporters of Texas A&M or Nebraska. I urge that each of them take just a few moments to write a short note to the team's student-athletes, student managers and coaching staff to acknowledge, in retrospect, their bla­tant lack of regard for each of the team member's daily efforts over the past months and moreover, their disregard for Notre Dame tradition. In the longer term, this might also enable our Athletic Department to become aware of those individuals who may have violated the terms of the pur­chase agreement that such tick­ets arc for "Faculty and Staff Use Only" and are "Not for Resale.'' Ultimately, the University may wish to decide whether such violations con­stitute grounds for revoking ticket privileges in future years. 
A.L. Johnson 
Professor ofPhysiology Sep1ember, 1I, 2000 

Notre Dame fans are a lot less rare than tickets and I challenge any alum who won tickets to the Nebraska game to claim they couldn't find Domers or fans that would gladly use their tickets. It is 
obvious that some alumni were thinking a lot more about the money than they 
were about the Irish spirit when they sold their tickets to high-paying 'Huskers fans. 
Theresa Higgins 
class of'98 September I I, 2000 

Heading into Saturday's matchup against Nebraska, Notre Dame had lost seven con­
secutive games away from Notre Dame Stadium. Now they have lost eight. The Nebraska fans embarrassed us on ESPN GameDay with their '"Husker, Home Game," chant. Notre Dame's reputation as a University is based largely on the perception that our students and alumni are rabidly loyal. In that respect, we took a major step back­wards on Saturday. 
Steven Reed 
senior 
Carroll Hall Sepiember 11, 2000 

God. Country. Cash. Notre Dame. 
I hope you are happy, for you should be 
ashamed. You have taken the "house that 
Rockne built" and turned it into a den of thieves. 
Patrick Grady class of'88 Palatine, IL Sepiember 11, 2000 

There has to be the technology to have a pic­
ture enlarged from film from the blimp to mark 
every red shirt in the stadium and relieve those 
ticket holders of their right to purchase tickets 
for at least five years if not longer. This should never be allowed to happen again. 
PatrickJ. Foley 
Illinois Stare University September 11, 2000 


page l 2 Tuesday, September 12, 2000 
------=-----_--=-=-=--=:--==-.:--=:::.==================================================================================== 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Fame doesn't help Dogstar's lack of originality 
that Dogstar is a little too crn­almost like a chip on their By LISA BRUNO 
atnd, a little too much likl' a Dogstar shoulder, criticizing S,~nr Mllsic Criric 
boy band with guitars is con­those who have preconceived 
l'irm1id. Thfl probll'm for notions about the band with­
Yns. Keanu l!t>nves is in a Dogslar is that it tries to pre­o u 1 listening to llappy 
hand. As ltrl' Bret sent itself as a simple garag11 Ending. Ycl. after a singlti 
Domrosn and Rubnrt band, just run throug-h 
Mailhousti. U111'ortunately for trying to 
Happy H1~pvcs. Dugstar may not makP their 
Ending-. most

Album Song List 
prov1• as big a hit as "Bill und mark in musi­
of these Tpd's hxc1\lln11t Adventure," cal histnry. 
notions

1. Halo 
In !'act, what has bnen tout-Whal they 
slick.

~-S,lippit}g Down 
1, d as a r or k y r o a cl for the don'l semn to 
Ther,1 are,

3. Enemies 
band . 111 a y c 11111.i n 11 t\. II a ppy rnalize is that 
however, a

4. Superstar
Ending, thn baud's sPcond thev don't 
l'ew note­album. h111 l'irsl U.S. rpJpas~. offe~ anything 
5. Cornerstone 
worthy conlains 1 I songs, only a few differnnt or 
6. A Dreamtime 
songs, songs of which stand ()lit ,wen distinct to the 
7. Stagger 
Lhat may, on Pnough to bn considered as musical histo­
8. Wasfiington 
a musical noteworthy. Hegrettably, ry books. 
9. Alarming 
low. cause Dogstar dons littlP -b11yond They describe 
10. 
Swim 

11. 
Blown Away 


the listener having Knanu Hecves on hass their songs as 
to seek out -to distinguish itself from "lovingly-Happy the likes of' many current crafted, inti-Ending and 
"rock" bands like C:re11d or mate songs." Craf'ttid is d!ifi­press play. The second 
Matchbox 20. nitely true, because this band track, "Slipping Down," actu­
The band was cn~ated in the doesn ·1 f'oel like it's for real. ally contains some or tlrn bet­shadows of llollywc)()d. This Dogstar seems to feel as if' ter Keanu, lyrics, "I worked hPt'OlllPS h(•avily evidPnt al'tPr they have a doubly difficult on it for awhile, until I saw a quick Lour of their high struggle to success because of that it was goin' nowhere. I gloss wPbsit(•. With just a few HPeves's presence in the gathered it into a pile and 
douhlo clicks, the suspicion band. This comes across put it with the rest of' the 
things that didn't work." 
The song, "Cornerstone" is 
the first release from llappy

Happy Ending 
Ending. And al'ter a first lis­
ten on the radio, it may 
cause that all too familiar CD 
Photo courtesy of www.dogstaronline.com 
Dogstar 
buyer's remorse. The eigth 

Despite having noted actor Keanu Reeves as a bass player,
track, "Washington," is a 

(shown here with guitarist Bret Domrose) Dogstar fails to 
ULTIMATIM pleasant ballad, howrwer the 
achieve any significant musical break-through.
lyrics just feel wrong -as if
Music 

they're forced to rhyme, "We rode upon a town, people all where they discussed that to listener wanting more ­Rating around." be a good vnrse, it dotisn't morn uniqueness of both tlw It seems as though Bret necessarily have to rhyme. album and tlw band, particu­Domrose, the lyricist, missed Dogstar's soµhornore offer­larly today, when tlw radio
.... 
the day in lyric writing-class ing unfortunately ltrnves the offers so much of the same. 
SCENE Music COLUMN 
Rap music thrives, despite absence of any logic 
l AThy do I listPn to rap music? Every cally throughout tlrn piece. It is really brewskies away with no problem at all. I urally I f'ollow the likes of Kid Hock, 
V V lime I !war the latest Dr. Drn or impossible to make sense of the wholn feel so enlightmmd for having learned all Eminem and IC:P. It was absolutn hnaven Emi,wm singll'. Ijust laugh at ilrn simple mess. of this. this summnr to opm1 up the Detroit Frnn bass linn and rorny keyboard !oops. 1 I give credit to Dr. Drn because he can 1think the absurdity of the rap lyric Press evflry morning and find a new story makt• fun of the idiotic lyrics. do somn good producing work, but ovcry really 1:ame to my attention after hearing on any of' these rappers. 
I nmlizf' that a one ol' his songs has a keyboard sound Dynamite Hack cover NWA's "Boyz-N­And bolieve me, I've bnen caught welHrairwd ostrich 
very similar to a flute. The opening key­The Ilood." For those of you that have not singing thn lyrics to "Boys-N-Thn llood" could nqual tlw 
board/flute lin<• to "Nuthin' But a G beard this instant classic, it features maybe a couple of times (Ok, maybe musical mastery of Thang" basically takes a new form in folk/rock guitars backing up a singer's about 500 times). But I still think rap Snoop I >ogg. A,~d cwery one of his songs ("Drn Day" etc. l hcartl'elt rendition of Eazy E's gagnsta music is the laughing stock of i\mnrican tlwn af!Pr I go Dr.troit's finest. Kid !lock. spiL'i his lyrics. pop culturP. (St)n Vanilla kci, MC through this proc1iss rhymns ovr:r nlcctric guitars, which is a Now, if you just heard Eazy E rapping Ilammer, Kriss Kross.) of l'.l'ilicizing and nice change from the keyboards and the words. it would Now. the main argu­bPlitt ling tlw songs. I samples. But it even becomes hard to just be another rap 1rnmt againsl my ma­
"ft seems the 'iaeal' mix
proi:<'nd lo play dcdp!wr one of his riffs from another. sung. You probably soning is that rap Llwm again and nod The biggPst part of' a rap song is obvi­wouldn't pay too much involves an eight bar key­music is nntcrtain­
Geoffrey Rahie 
mv (wad lo tlw lwat. ously the lyrics. Most rappers have no attentio11 to what he ment, not art. Wnll I
board section repeated
why would anyonP in musical talent {save for the Roots, Beastie was saying lwcausP agrnP l00 1wrcent
256 times, a hass line 
his or lwr ri~ht mind (including nw} want Boys and Kid Hock) so they have to make it's the same typo of with that assessnwnt. to listi-11 to rap music'' it with thPir mouth. And hoy is it a swePt gangsta stuff (girls, that took five seconds to Lnt me tell you this: I Tlw lirsl setback lo your gt~rwric rap ride! cars, and drinks.) But write, a nine iron and will hP the first g-uy 
song is tlH1 actual bac·kground noise. tr Kid Hock's anthem "Drinking and when one listens to a vou meet to scrnam
some lraj]lC noise. " 
pr(\/\1r not to c:all it background music.) Smoking" contains Vllrse that would real singr.r put the ;.Y'all gonna mak1\ me Most ol'tlw linw I can't figurfl out wlrnrc make MC Shakespearn proud. 'Tm a lyrics to music, it's loso my mind, up in t!w lwll Urns(~ guys are coming up with pimp/ You can check my stats./ I'm in it to easier to pay attention to the ridiculous here, up in here'' or "I want to bP a cow­tlmst• sounds. win it like Ywrman/ I drink about 15 words actually being sung. boy, baby!" 
It sPnms likn tlw "idnal" mix involv,1s an llei1111ken's." "Causn the boys in the hood are always But I would prefer for these 1rnopl1\ to 
Pight-har kPyboard snction rt~peatrd 256 Now, what did I learn f'rom listening to hard/ Come taking that trash and we'll bn callod entertainers rather than artists. timPs, a bass lin1• that took !iv(' seconds to lhf'se words? Well. I already knew that bull your car/ Knowin' nothing in life but Winton Marsalis is an artist. Eminem wrihi. a niiw iron and some trnf1ic noise. Steve Yzermun was a Detroit hockey leg­to b1~ legil/ Don't quote me boy, I ain't w1mrs big pants. 1.ct's takn. for 1•xample, DMX's lat,1st end, but I didn't know that Kid Rock was saids***_" 
muslnrpiccli, 1111titlrd "Up In llern." There a pimp' !low scandalous! Wait until the But through all this harsh criticism, 1 The views expressed in this column is some loud horn-type thingy that blasts papBrs get a hold of that one. am a sucker f'or a popular rap song. I'm are those ofthe author and not neces­to start the song and shows up sporadi-And Kid claims he can put a few from the suburbs of Detroit, Mich, so nat-sarily those ofthe Observer. 


Tuesday, Seprember 12, 2000 page 13 
...

ALBUM REVIEW 
Sophomore effort fails to recapture magic for Jets 
By JOE REISING Sccllt' Musi<· Editor 
Tlwy say all good things 111usl come to an end. and for fans of' th,• Blak<> Schwarzenbach led pui:lk group, .luwbreak1>r. the end to Schwarzcnl.mch's intelligent punk music app<'ill"NI to occur in 1996 when the group disband­nd. llow(~VPr, tlm 1nid proved just to bP a new br~ginning for Scwarz1•11bach. 
Taking tlwir name from a movie poster seen in the background of the film "Breakfast at Tiffany's," Schwarz1mbach, along with former Texas is the Heason drnrnnwr Chris Daly and .IPremy Chatelain, the bassist and singPr !'or Handsome, formed a new band, Jets 1.o Brazil. I .caving a good portion of the punk influences bc•hind. tlw group rnleased tlrn brilliant Orange Rhyming Diclionary in ICJlJ8. 
Whili> tlw familiar themes of troubled relationships and tll(' stifling dfocls of the modern world were still present. along with power chord buoyed choruses, the album s<mr<'d well above tlrn confines of traditional punk music. Each song was a miniature movie, accompanied by some vPry catrhy musk that thrust itself on the imagination and doesn't fade away until lhe lyrics and scenery were per­manently mnb11dded into the listener's head, 
Orang!' Rhyming Dictionary combined elements of both pnp and punk into music that was much greater than the 
Jets to Brazil strays from its punk past to create a much more melodic lyrics are more obscure this time and popish sound for its second album, Four Cornered Night. around, and instead of narrating 
UPCOMING CONCERTS 
South Bend 
Matchbox Twenty JACC 
Indianapolis 
Chr•stina A911,tera Tim McGraw and Faith Hill Jilmmy Pa9e Uve wilth 
The Black Crowes AHce Cooper Hanson Dixie Chicks 
TraYiS 
Smokey Robinson 
Barenaked Ladies Jurassic S and 
Dialated Peoples Jets to Braz•• Tina Turner Bad ReU9ton 
Courtesy of tic:ketmaster.Gom 
Deercreek 
Conseco 
Deer creek 
Murat Thea-C:er 
Nura1 Thea1.er Conseco 
Chicago 
Rivjera Hause of Blues UIC PavHHon 
YjcTheater 
Ne-cro 

United Center 
Riviera· 
sum of its parts. 
So it was with groat anticipation that fans awaitl'd th!' band's follow-up album. But to the surprise and even disappointment of many, Four Cornered Night has even less to do ,vith Orange Rhyming Dictionary than Jets to Brazil had to with the Jawbreaker's strictly punk formulas. Barely noticeable. or 
Jade Tree 

in some songs, entirely missing, are the crisp 
Records 

distorted power chord, driven choruses and the memorable im,i.gery of Orange Rhyming Dictionary. 
Rating 

In their place are der.idedly non-punk piano and cello sounds, and a much more 
....
,

traditional song format. The addition of gui­tarist Brian Maryansky freed up 
Schwarzenbach, allowing for such a concen­
tration on piano. Unfortunately Schwarzenbac.h was never 
taught piano. as he plainly admits in the last song. While 
in no way detrimental, the piano does Little besides making 
the songs sound a little more like the Beatles or Billy Joel. Maryansky also proves an unnecessary addition on gui­
tar. On Orange Hhyming Dictionary, Schwarzenbach had to perform double duty as load singer and guitarist. Consequently, many songs resulted in a rather simple gui­tar line while Schwarzenbach was singing and then a more intense guitar between verses. The resulting effect 
was one of great space, with a wide sampling of guitar effects that added as much to the songs' imagery as Schwarzenbach's lyrics. Maryansky's guitar seems like it could have been done just as well by any studio guitarist hack, adding little flourishes where none are needed, and in general, resonating far too much like a guitarist from two or three decades ago, long past his time. However, for all the changes made for the new album, there are still a few _signs of the old Jets to Brazil -particularly in Schwarzenbach's lyrics. Rankling relationships and a dis­regard for an over medicated, impersonal modern world still provide material for such songs as "You're Having the Time of My Life" and "Your X-Rays Have Just Come Back From the Lab and We Think We Know What Your Problem ls." However. the

NEW RELEASES 
Oct. 2 Barenaked Ladies • Maroon 
The Presidents • Freaked Out and Small 
Jimi H~pdrix • The Jimi Hendrix 
Experience 

Sept.19 The·N;1rve1ous···1 -ReadySex Go Boyz ll>llen-llathan:Niclleal Shawn
Sep-t. 22 
··· Wanp 

Sept. 29 ... Oc-t. I 
September 19
Oci.1 occ.. 2/l 
··· Madonna -Nusic Fastball ... The Harsh Li9ht of Day Poe -Haunted 
Sept. 19 sepi. 2;1 
Sept•...24 
September 26 
Sepi,.,t7 · 
Oct. I'.' wie•-Bo.wie.attheBeel,'. Oct. 4 · 'e9rees··:.'IJ~vela1•on Oct.14 j._y,jj1e • Playaz of Da Game 
• co..rtesy.o, w•H•~•nd.eom 
a story or fueling the imagination, the lyrics are essentially just lyrics. Considering that Schwarzenbach may be one of lhe most creative singers in music today, this is not so much a reduction in meaning as a change of focus. 
All departures from Orange Ilhyming Dictionary aside, Four Cornered Night is still a very good album. Despite having a less original and imaginative sound than the pre­vious album. Four Cornered Night still delivers some great songs. "Pale New Da"vn" is perhaps the best example of where the band can go if it decides to stick with its new sound. 
The song starts out with the familiar repetitive distorted power chords of the past, but at a little bit slower pace, and Schwarzenbach's singing on this track seems more melodic and varied than past efforts. "Midday Anonymous" is also a lot more melodic than anything on the past album, but is able to recapture some of the pow­erful and catchy choruses. "Little Light" is perhaps one of the best songs Jets to Brazil has made to date. The acoustic guitar, piano, drums and organ are all in the right balance in this song. 
Unfortunately, for every "Little light" and "Pale New Dawn" on this album, there seems to be at least two "Empty Picture Frames," a song that feigns heavy promise, but never fully develops. 
Despite the fact that Four Cornered Night does not live up to the expectations raised by Orange Rhyming Dictionary, it still leaves hope that Jets to Brazil will con­tinue to grow musically. 
Besides, its hard to stay disappointed at an album whose last track is entitled "All Things Good and Nice." Genuine and sentimental, the song also contains one of Schwarzenbach's most profound lyrics to date, "Some will say the truth is not so plain/ don't confuse your truth with your pain." And while Schwarzenbach's punk rock days may have finally reached an end, fans of intelligent, thoughtful music will be happy to know that Jets to Brazil are still flying high. 
Today 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 12, 2000 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

McGwire ends drought with homer in Cardinals' win 
Associated Pr.:ss 
PITTSBUHGH 
Mark McCwirn homered for 
the first time in more than 
two months and Edgar 
Benteria hit a tiebreaking 
single in tlrn eighth innin!a{ 
Monday night, leading the St. 
Louis Cardinals ov1H the 
Pittsburgh Pirates 8-4. 
McGwire hit a two-run homer in the first inning. his 31st or the season and first since July 1. lie had been limitP.d to one plate appear­ance in each of the four games since he came off the disabled list last week. 
McGwire, sidelined from July 6-Sept. 8 with patella tendinitis in his right knee, has been listod as a second baseman and has left each time after batting in the top of the first. 
lie struck out, popped up and was hit by a pitch during three weekend games at Milwaukoe. 
Garrntl StephPnson I 16-81 won for th<' fifth Lime in six decisions. alluwing four runs, seven hits and four walks in seven innings. Jlr, retirnd the side in order just twice. 
St. Louis. which overcame four HBis l'rom John Vander Wal. is 8-:{ in September und had won 19 of' its last 26. 

With their 82nd loss, thu Pirates wern math!'matically eliminatt>d from postscason contention and were assurnd of' thoir eighth rnnserutive losing year, the longost stretch of losing seasons sinr.e 194tJ-:i7. 
With the score 4-all. Fernando Tatis singled off Havelo Manzanillo 12-2) lead­ing off the eighth. took third on Hay J.ankfordOs single and scored when Henteria extended his hitting streak to 11 gamrs with a single. 

Mike M1Lthenv bunted into a double play be'°forc pinch-hit­ter Thomas Howard blooped a ball to left that fr.II between Brian Giles and Abraham Nunez f'or an HBI double. 
Jeff Wallan! walked Hay Lankford with the bases loaded in the ninth and 

Edgar Henteria hit a sacrifice f1y. 
J.D. Drew opened the game with a double and McGwire drove Jose Silva's 0-1 pitch over the center-field wall. 
St. Louis stretched the lead 
to 4-0 in the second when 
Matheny hit an RBI double 
and scored on Stephenson's 
single. 
Vandcr \Val hit an HBI sin­gle in the third and tied it in the fifth on a Vander Wal's 20th homer, a three-run drivfl. 
Pittsburgh's Adrian Brown saved two runs when he leaped and reached over the center-field fence to rob Placido Polanco of a home run in tho fourth. 
Reds 7, Cubs 6 
Sammy Sosa hit his major league-leading 49th homer but Jason LaHue had a career-high five RB Is to lead the Cincinnati Beds over the Chicago Cubs. 
LaRue. making a bid for the starling catcher's job next year, hit a three-run homer in the second and a two-run double in the fourth for a 6-3 lead. Ile is considered a good dcfensivn catcher and han­dler of pitchers but began the night with a .171 average and five HB!s in 70 at-bats. 
Ken Griffey Jr. left with a strained left hamstring after colliding with .Joe Girardi at home plate in the seventh, trying lo score from first on a double by Dmitri Young. 
Pete Harnisch (7-6l allowed five runs and eight hits in five innings with five strike­outs. 
Danny Graves pitched the ninth for his 28th save in 33 chances. allowing an HBI sin­gle to pinch-hitter Jeff Heed. then striking out Jose Nieves to end the game with runners on first and second. 
Daniel Garibay (2-81 gave up six runs and six hits in fnur innings as the Cubs (59­84I lost for the 10th time in I I games, dropping a season­worst 25 games under .500. 
Juan Castro hit an llBI dou­ble in the second ahead of Castro's fourth homer. which made it 4-0. 
Sosa homered in the fourth 
and needs just one more to 
become only tho third player 
with mnre than two 50­
homPr seasons. joining Babe 
Ruth and Mark McGwirc. 
Girardi hit a sacrifice fly and Garibay singled in a run, his first RBI in 14 at-bats this season. Harnisch escaped additional damage when Chad \.!eyers grounded out. 
Aftor LaHue's doublP-down 
the left-field line. Julio Zulcta 
hit a two-run double in the 
fifth as Chicago closed to 6-5, 
then was thrown out stretch­
ing. 
Alex Ochoa homered in the seventh off Steve Hain. 
Padres 7, Rockies 2 
Woody Williams pitched a six-hitter and John Mabry's two-run single keyed a five­run firsl inning, leading the San Diego Padres to a win over the Colorado Rockies. 
Colorado's Todd llelton went O-for-4. dropping his average to .379. It hadn't been that low since Aug. 9, when it was .378. 
Williams (10-SI rPtired 16 consecutive batters bel'ore Todd Ilollandsworth homered with nne out in the oighth. Williams struck oul !'our and walked none in his third com­pletr, game of Urn season. lie also had a run-scoring grounder in the third. giving him nine IH31s. 
Mabry's single was one of five hits against Julian Tavarez (10-3). who allowed five runs, walked two and hit a batter us he recorded just one out in the first inning. It was the shortest of his 21 career starts. 
Tavarez lost for the first time in nine starts this sea­son with Colorado. He had been 5-0 with a 2.25 ERA, with the Rockies going 8-0 in his previous starts. 
San Diego loaded the bases in the first on Damian Jackson's leadoff double. an infield single by Desi Relaford and a walk to Ryan KIPsko. 
One out later. Mabry lined a two-run single. Mike Darr and Eric Owens followed with 

consecutive HBI singles. With runners on first and third, Owens stole second base and Darr was credited with a steal of home when he scored easily on the throw down to second. 
Colorado scored in the sec­

ond on a double by 
1-Iollandsworth and Brett 
Mayn1>'s HHI single. 
San Diego added its final run on Wiki Gonzalez's RBI single in the seventh. 
Giants 8, Astros 7 
Barry Bonds tied the game with a two-run homer in the ninth inning and Bill Mueller tripled home the go-ahead run in the 10th. leading the San Francisco Giants over the Houston Astros. 
San Francisco, which led G­O before falling before 7-5. won for the 1 Otb time in 12 games and stopp11d Houston's six-game winning streak. The Giants began the night wilh a 7 1/2-game lead over second­place Arizona in the NL West. 
Bonds tied the score in the ninth with his 45th homer, a drive off Octavio Dote!. who blew a save for the fourth time in 17 chances. 
Ramon Martinez singled off Mark Valdes (4-5) with one out in the 10th and, one out later, Mueller hit a pitch to right-center power alley. 
Robb Nen 14-:,J pitched 1 2­3 hitless innings for tlrn win, getting Moises Alou lo hit into an inning-ending double play with two on in the ninth. 
Jose Lima, allowed homers to Jeff Kent and J.T. Snow. raising his total to 44. two short of the NL record Hobin RobPrts set with Philadelphia in 1956. Bert Blyleven set the major league record of 50 with Minnesota in 1986. 
Houston, in its first season at Enron Field, set a team record for home attendance. drawing 35,130 to increase its season total to 2,728,739 Mondav. The old mark of' 2,706,017 was set in 1999. 
Richard Hidalgo went 3-for­
4. including his fifth homnr in three games. Hidalgo. 8-for­13 with s•wen HBls in the three games. homered in Urn 
third and appeared lo hit 
another in the firth, when his 
drive went into the i\stros' 
bullpen in right-contor and 
hit the top of a second fence 
in the bullpen. th11n bounced 
back on the field. 
Second base umpirn Brian Gorman ruled it in play and Hidalgo wound up with a triple. 
llouston got hornn runs l'rom llidalgo. Jeff Bagw<1ll and Alou, incrnasing its total to 226, tying Toronto l'or the major lcrngue load. /\lou became the first batter to hit the train high abovo lel't l'ield. 
Lima allowed five runs, seven hits and a carn,~r-high six walks in 6 2-] innings. 
Joe Nathan, in his lirst start since July 13, gavP up six runs and five hits -three of them homers -in 2 1-3 innings. lie was on thll dis­abled list with right shoulder inl'lammation from July 14­Aug. 18 and had made four appearances since then, all in relief. 
Kent hit a throo-run homer in the first. raising his total to a carf'.1\r-high :12, and Snow !'ollowncl with a solo shot. It was the third limn this season thn Giants hit consrwutiV(\ homers. 
Thr• Giants have 20<, homers. the most thny havn hit in a st>ason sincn moving from NP.w York to San Francisco af'tcr thi~ 1957 sea­son. Thev hit 20S in 1987. 
Kent's ·1rn1 singln made it S­O in the second, but llidalgo started llouston's comoback in the bottom half with his 38th homer 
Lima, just 8-for-S3 at thn plate coming in, doubll'd leading of'!' thl' six-run third and scored on a triple by Julio Lugo, who canrn around when catrhcr Doug Mirabelli's pickoff attempt when tho ball went down the left l'ield line !'or an error. 
Bagwell followed with his 42nd homer, niaking it 5-4, and i\lou hit a two-run homer for a 6-5 load. 
M igu c I Dc l To r o rn Iill v<~ d and walkod Hidalgo. then gavo up an HB! double to Haul Chavnz. 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every busin,·ss d.iy from 8 a.m. ro 311.1n. ,lt rhc Notre Dame otlice, 024 Somh Dining r!al!. Deadline for next-day dassificds is 3 p.m. Al dassificds rnu.r be prep,1id. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per Jay, induding all spaces. The Observer reserves the riglu ro cdir all dassifieds for conrenr wirhour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
BUY/SELL N.D FOOTBALL TIX. That Pratly Place, Bed and WINTER BREAK/SPRING BREAK 2 people needed to provide HOME& AWAY. Breakfast Inn has space available Ski & Beach trips on sale now! dependable child care for church 
(219) 289-8048 for football/parenl wknds. 5 Rooms www.sunchase.com or call 1-800-Bible study. Thursday ams 9-10:30. PERSONAL
TICKETS 
NO STUDENT CONVERSION TIX with private baths, $80-$115. SUNCHASE TODAY! Own transportation preferred but 
NEEDED Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. will discuss $15/person. Julie 8 Cruz. I red is tor communists. NEED 2 OR 3 PURDUE TICKETS Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-SOCCER & VOLLEYBALL REFER-44746. Hat? ANY WORKS. ..Need 3 Purdue Tix ..!! 9487. EES needed for south side elemen­634-1886 243-7865 tary school, located near Scottsdale Why don't I ever see my room-
I have 5 bedrooms for rent in my Mall on Miami Street $20.00 per mate?
FOR SALE 

WANTED Need 4 Purdue Tickets nicely-decorated private home for soccer game: $16.0D per VB match ND FOOTBALL TKTS Call Travis Football weekends; less than 2 to qualified refs. Call 291-4200 Tigger, Piglet and Eeyore: its been 
... 
289-9280 319-241-1082 miles north of stadium, continental SKYDIVE!! awhile and we're not roomies -but 
brkfst included. Many happy repeat FOOSBALL Looking for high level Training Students for 35 Years you still rock! SELLING ND FOOTBALL TKTS Need GA's: 4 Stanford, customers! Call Kim 277-8340. players. Call 257-4441 in evening. 1 Hour North of South Bend 251-1570 2AF, 2BC Ask for D. GREAT LAKES SKYDIVERS. INC. MandA -how does it feel to be 
Chris 634-4751 B&B rm avail. Lg rm. dbl. bed w/ 1-800-351-6617 smart and beautiful at the same VICTORY TKTS Beeley.1@nd.edu own bath, mins. to ND Looking for a babysitter in our lime?? II must be rough BUY'SELL'TRADE 631-9806 or277-7696 home. Flex. hours. No Sundays. 1 mile from ND in quiet neighbor-ND FOOTBALL Please call 258-4115 hood, 2 Bedroom very clean Shanley -five points is all I have to 232-0964 $69,500. Call say -five points. www.victorytickets.com FOR RENT Looking for 10 enterprising students (219) 264-4966
WANTED 

for part time computer work. Earn lhave never heard a horse that loud BUY/SELL ND TICKETS 8&8 lodging in alumni home lor NO up to $4 .000/mo. 1-800-304-0414 87 Honda Civic 4dr sedan, manual, 273-3911 games. (219) 243-2628 or SPRINGBREAI< 2001 Lv. Msg. 174k. Near flawless condition. fiz -it was impressive 
garyb@mvillage.com Hiring On-Campus Reps $2800. 44746. ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH, Fashion company seeks models to No. T happy someone's staying 
A.M. -232-2378 2 BDRM APTS. FOR 2000-01. GO FREE!!! show glamour fashions. No experl-another year isn't selfish at all 
P.M. -288-2726 ALSO LEASING FOR 2001-02 Student Travel Services ence necessary. Glamour. P.O. Box 
DAVE 291-2209 America's #1 Student Tour 795, South Bend, IN 46624 yeah right ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE Operator 
A.M. -232-2378 ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE Jamaica, Mexico, High quality kegerator. Bought in LOST IN EITHER LAFORTUNE OR maybe you could nurse him back to 
P.M. -288-2726 AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS Bahamas, Europe. '98 for 1 k. Asking $600 (can be split NOH: wallet with credit cards and health 
http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ Florida amongst roommates & later resold identilication. If found, call Lori f need 4 Purdue tickets. Please call email:mmmrentals@aol.com 1-800-648-4849 to underclassmen) 312-952-2540 x3874 I miss my roommate a whole lot. 274-0829 232-2595 www.gospringbreak.com leave v-mail :·• REWARD IF FOUND Maybe we could hang out ever. 
•· 

"" ...... .............. . . •-:•••••••••••••••-::.a.;a ~ t_:_ a -¦ :, ¦ ~ ~ ¦ : ,,; ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ C:: t ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ a a¦ :'I .1, r ¦ ¦ & • ¦ a t ~ -;s • ¦ ¦ ¦ 11 ¦ . 
LOST AND FOUND 
page 15 

Tuesday, September 12, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
This Week in Campus Ministry 
AuEust 28-September 18 103 Hesburgh Library 
Freshmen Retreat #30 Sign-up Thrgeted Dorms: Badin, Keenan, Lewis, O'Neill, Pasquerilla East, St. Edward's, Morrissey, Walsh, and Zahm 
Tuesday, September 12, 6:00 p.m. Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
Training for New Spanish Mass Ministers 
Tuesday, September 12, 7:00 p.m. Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Wednesday, September 13, 10:00 p.m. Walsh Hall 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Sunday, September 17, 1:30 p.m. Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
Spanish Mass Presider: Rev. Felipe Morel, csc 
Sunday, September 17, 7:30 p.m. Montgomery Theater 
Africentric Spirituality: Sankofa Scholars Honors Assembly 
, ~ Mark Your Calendar 
Want to help with Ministries at Spanish Mass? 
--Everyone is Welcome -­
Training will take place for new ministers on Tuesday, September 12 at 6:00 p.m. in Keenan-Stanford's Chapel of the Holy Cross 
Questions? Call Fr. Tom Bednar @ 1-3353 

112 Badin Hall 631-5242 
103 Hesburgh Library 637-7800 email minisfry.1@nd.edu 
web www.nd.edu/~ ministry coming soon Coleman-Morse Center 


Bible Study 

Campus Bible Stuay 
1st meeting of the year 
Tuesaay, September 12th at 7 p.m. in the Baain Hall chapel 
This is an interfaith bible study. All students are invited. 
[]] Help Out 

Catechists needed!! 
There Is still a need for notre Dame/St. mary's students to teach religion classes to children on Snday mornings or weekday afternoons in nearby parishes. 
Please contact John or Syluia Dillon if you are Interested. Call 631-7163. 

11] Information Session 
Be a Sponsor for someone who is considering becoming Catholic? 
RCIA Information Session -­
for all interested Sponsors 
Sunday, September 1 7 from 1-2 p.m. Lafortune's Notre Dame Room 
Need more info? Contact Justin Dunn @ 1-3390 

Prayer & Discussion 
Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual Students and their Friends. 
Meet weekly on Wednesday Night for discussion andprayer. 
Coming Soon: Sixth Annual Retreat• November 17th-18th. 
For more information, please contact: Tami Schmitz 1-3016 Schmitz.8@nd.edu Tom Doyle,C.S.C. 1-4112 Doyle.22@nd.edu 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 12, 2000 
NFL 

Testaverde finds Chrebet in end zone for last-minute win 
Associated Press 
EAST IWTIIFRFOHD, N . .I. 
So much for Keyshawn Johnson. 
Wayrn~ Chrcbet. who stepped up from Urn Jets' No. 2 receiv­er to llrnir top gun. caught a 28-yurd touchdown pass from Vinny Tosta.vcrdc with 1 :55 left as Nnw York scored twice in the final 6:25 to beat thf' Nnw England Patriot,; 20-19 Monday nighl 
IL was a dramatic ending to a game that had a lot of grind­ing around midfield until the final quarter. 
New England built up a 12-7 lead on four Adam Vinaticri fil'ld goals and extended il to 19-7 on Drew Bledsoc's 4-yard touchdown pass to Eric Bjornson with just under 10 minutes left. 
That snemecl w energize the JNs, who drove 85 yards in 10 plays to score on Tcstaverdc's 2-varcl TD pass to ChrcbeL Fu.llback Hirhil~ Anderson had five calches !'or 78 yards on thal drivP. 
NPw York got the ball back with 2:28 left. 
On tlrn first play. Testavcrde hit Dc<lric Ward for 44 yards. then threw to Chrcbet. who caught the ball at the 3 and dove into the Pnd zone. 
The 2-point conversion failed. but Nc>w England went nowherr. John Abraham and Shaun Ellis. two of New York's first-round draft choices. com­bined on onP. sack of Bledsoe. and Abraham got another. 
The Jets am 2-0 while the Patriots are 0-2. 
This game had a special sig­nificance in New York and New England. where it was known as the "Tuna Helper Bowl." a contest between the Patriots' Bill Belichick and 

Got Sports? Call 1-4543 
NEED A DATE? 
Want to earn some money? Shop Online? 
Try themich,anacollegeconnaction .terrashare.com 
New York's Al Groh. who spent much of their careers interning under Bill "Tuna" Parcells. 
The Jets moved thf' ball only once during the first half, going 7 4 yards on 12 plays on their first possession, scoring on Testaverde's 4-yard pass to Fred Baxter. 
Despite his three TD passes, Testaverde was just 16-of-37. although he did throw for 29 l y,t.rds. 
Testaverde continued to show signs of rust l'rom last year, when he tore an Achilles· tendon in the first half of the first game with the Patriots and missed the rest of the season. 
At one point, he threw six straight incomplete passes, hit Chrebet for 28 yards. then was sacked and threw two more incompletions. 
Meanwhile, the Patriots pluggfid along between the 20s. 
Thev led 12-7 at halftime, courtesy of Vinatieri's field goals from 32. 35. 30 and 33 yards. 
Two were set up by Troy Brown's punt returns of 31 and 38 yards, a third by an interception that Antonio Langham returned 24 yards to the New York 14. 
But the Patriots never got close to scoring a touchdown on any of those threats. 
New England drove from its own 26 lo the New York 11 with the opening kickoff of the second half. 
But Vinatieri's field-goal attempt appeared to· be denected and went wide left. 
Bledsoe completed 25 of 43 passes for 229 yards but just the one touchdown. 
The rest of the scoring was Vinatieri and that made the difference. 


Everything about business is changing. Its pace, paradigms, strategies, global expectations, everyday challenges. That's where yon'II come in -with us. You'll. leverage rhe presence of one of today's 
leading global consulting firms, enabling clients to not only adapt to a radically changing world, but to flourish in it. You'll he part of a team of some 5,000 Associates who provide clients (Fortune 
!00s, savvy start-ups, non-profits, etc.) with definitive expertise in key areas: 
• 
Benefits Consulting 

• 
Human Capital Consultmg 


• 
Human Resources Technologies 

• 
Account Management 



Did y.ou know7 Watson Wyatt ranks #1 in the consulting industry for overall reputation and delivering value to clients, according to an independent survey conClucted by tne Wall Street Journal among its subscribers. 
We currently have openings available throughout the 
U.S. and Canada for individuals with a degree in Mathematics, Actuarial Science or Statistics. 
If unable to meet with us, pleasc forward your resume to: Watson Wyatt Worldwide, 303 W. Madison Street Suite 2400, Chi~ago, IL 60606; by Fax: (312) 704-2408; or hy E-mail: Chicago_hr@watsonwyatt.com 
For the full Watson Wyatt story, visit our website ur write us. Watson Wyatt is an EEO/AA Employer, M/F/DN. 
Visit us at: 

www.watsonwyatt.com 
\\. Watson Wyatt Worldwide 
.--­
page 17 

Tuesday, September 12, 2000 The Observer . OLYMPIC SPORTS 
Olympic officials 
refute drug study 
CLIMB TJiE PYRAMID <9F TJiESUN FIND OUT MORE ABOUT Notre Dame's International Study Program IN PUEBLA, MEXICO INFORMATION SESSION WITH ON-SITE DIRECTOR, PROFESSOR ALBERT LEMAY Wednesday, September 13, 2000 4:45 PM 207 DeBartolo  
I ·/ ,j ;/Seniors ... Do you have questions about life after Notre Dame? Are you wondering what to do next year? · Join a Senior Transition Group ,Groups meet 5 times on Sunday evenings throughout the year to discuss ho~ND values can be integrated into future careers. ,Prof's from each college, ND staff and Alumns will host the groups in their homes. , Kickoff Sunday September 24th ,Other meetings on Nov. 5, Dec. 3, Jan. 28, Feb. 25. Sign Ups: Wednesday, Sept. 13 at LaFortune from 12-5 -or­E-mai your name, phone number, and address to Shappell.1@nd.edu before Wednesday, Sept. 20 Co,Sponsored by the Senior Class and the CSC  
Need Tickets? Check out the Observer Classifieds  

Associated Press 
SYDNEY, Australia 

The International Olympic Committee. under renewed attack for its anti-doping poli­cies, says critics in the United States and other countries should fix their own drug problems before giving lessons to others. 
IOC members complained Tuesday about a study, financed and released by the White House last week. that criticized the international committee and other sports organizations for failing to do enough to 
committees in the countries "that are giving us a lesson every day, telling us what we have to do. 
"Only if these countries are doing something in their own country against doping can we accept this kind of lesson." 
The IOC has frequently cited the absence of a com­prehensive anti-doping pro­gram in the United States, particularly in professional sports. 
The U.S. study triggered a backlash during a discussion on the activities of the world anti-doping agency, which was created by the IOC last 
year to 

combat the coordinate
"Only ifthese countries 
use of banned out-of-com­
are doing something in
performance­p et it ion enhancing their own country testing. drugs in the "We can't
against doping can we 
olympics. accept the
accept this kind of
The report attitudes of was prepared lesson." t h o s e by Joseph A. national Califano Jr., institutions 
Juan Antonio Samarach 
president of which want 
the National president, IOC to give us 
Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse (CASA) at Columbia University. The center con­ducted a two-year, $1 million study of drug use in olympic sports. 
IOC officials have called the report out of date, saying it fails to take into account steps made in recent months. These include formation of the World Anti-Doping Agency, approval of a test for the banned drug EPO, implemen­tation of unannounced out-of­comp e ti tion controls and appointment of independent observers for the Sydney Games. 
"f understand very well that many members of the IOC are not happy with the attacks we are receiving day by day regarding the doping fight," IOC president Juan Antonio Samaranch told the general assembly Tuesday. 
Without citing the United States by name, he said the International Olympic Committee should take up the issue with national olympic 
lessons of behavior," Italian delegate Mario Pescante said. "You know who I am talking about. 
"We cannot accept that a professor without any title can give us lessons in the anti-doping fight. This so­called professor is from a country that is not doing 10 percent of what the IOC is doing. Those calling for oth­ers to put their house in order should get their own house in order too." 
IOC vice president Dick Pound, chairman of the world agency, lamented the "misin­formation, often deliberate misinformation" circulated about the IOC's anti-doping efforts. 
Referring to the U.S. study, Pound said: "There's a great deal of academic and scholar­ly rivalry out there. Scholars love to debate with each other about who is right and who is wrong. The ones who say everything is wrong tend to get a little more press atten­tion than those who say it's right." 
International Study Programs 

-h~•'\.,_ • :_:: • ~~'-~...a, 
..~s:-aA:fi·;· ,
~·~'?:;~' .-!. ~;~,"'c~•." 
r.~~~~-~~ •, 

NAGOYA, JAPAN 
INFORMATION MEETING Prof. Setsuko Shiga 
\Vednesday September 13, 2000 106 O'Shaughnessy 5:00 PM 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: December 1, 2000 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 12, 2000 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Knight situation heats up on Bloomington campus 
• Players demand IU keep Davis, Treloar on staff 
Associated PrceH 
BLOOMINGTON. Ind. 

The post-Bob Knight era al Indiana br.gan Monday in a style one might expect from the llull of Fame c o a c h himself: an ulti­matum. 
Players demand­ed that assistant coaches M i k e 
I) a V i S and John Treloar be retained and that one of them be hired as interim rnar.h. 
0th«rwise, center Kirk II as ton said. there would be "serious repercussions." 
'Td say wo'd have sevnr• al guys leave. I c-ouldn't put a swi­cific num­


ber. but "ffthey want to keep this question several they came
team together. they'll 
W O LI ] d to Indiana
give us some support,
leave," lJ niversity llaston and that means they'll to play for 
said. "If keep coach Treloar and coach Bob 
limy want Knight.
coach Davis here. " 
lo keep We'd like this team to think together, Kirk Haston they came 
t h e y ' I 1 to Indiana
Hoosier center 

give us some sup• purl, and t h a t means they'll keep coach Treloar and coach Davis here." 
Athletic director Clar­ence Doninger said he has asked Davis and Treloar to stay, although not neces­sarily as the interim coach. 
Doninger alsn said he already has received calls from "a number of people" -whom he would not identify -interested in the head coaching job. 
While junior Dane Fife and freshman swing man 
A.J. Moye decided to trans­fer. Lhe other players have yet to make a decision. 
"If things work out the way we want it, we'll stay." sophomore forward George Leach said. "We are ready to go if they don't meet our demands. Indiana will not have a team." 
Haston said he would 

like to talk again with 
Knight, who met with the 
players Sunday night. 
"This is still his team. 

and I'll do anything he 
says he wants me to do," 
Baston said. 
Knight's son. Pat, an assistant coach, said his father likely will coach somewhere else. and he would go with him. 
''I' m o u t of he r e . I wouldn't stay in this place after the way they treated my father." Pat Knight 
NEED A DATE? 
Want to earn some money? Shop Online? 

Try 1ham1chianacollegecorinacllon.1erras11a,e.com 
said. "There's no way. 
"He's excited and wants to go someplace," the younger Knight said of his father. "He's got a good five or six years left in him to coach. A Hall of Fame coach that's available is a pretty hot commodity in my book. Everybody's Lhinking it ends here. IL doesn't end here. This is a new beginning for us." 
Davis said he has noL 
decided what he will do. 
although he likely would 
not remain as an assis­
tant. 

"The players would real­Iv have to convince me to s'tay here as an assistant coach." Davis said. 
He said he spoke to the players and told them to be patient and not make a decision based on what happens to the assistants. 
Doninger understands why lhe players are upset 
"You've got some quality people and they arc stunned by all of this. They are hurt bv all of this." he 
. s a i d . "There's no 
University 
because of 
Indiana 
University 
too. but I know the facts of 
life here. and they came to 
play for coach Knight." 
lie said the search for an 
interim coach would begin 
right away and a perma­
nent coach not too long 
after that. 
"My best guess is you 
start thinking about the 
process even after you get 
the current coaching staff 
intact," Doninger said. "It's 
something you need to 
address very early on. It 
gets awkward as the sea• 
son goes on. but everybody 
knows that's going to be 
the situation." 
WIN A TRIP 
FOR TWO TO 
AFRICA 
This year the cast of MTV's 'The Real World' went to Africa. 
Now you can tool 
.(ii-~
t$o~ 
Enter for a chance to win at your local Council Travel office or at counciltravel.com 
This trip to Africa is provided by 
' ~ ti/
£"~ vIrg1n
CU""'=-:. atlant1c 
No PIJl'ChaSe Necessary. Open lo residents of U.S., between the ages ol 18 and 35 as ol 9/5/00. Void Where prohibited, See agency for Official Rules or go to councillravel.com. S""'epstakes ends 10/15/00. 
~---­
counciltravel.com 
1-800-2COUNCIL 
+ Fife, Moyer choose Knight over university 
Associated Press 
The General's iron hand is still on the Indiana basketball team. 
At the urging of Bob Knight. junior 
g u a r d Dane Fife decided Monday to leave the Hoosiers. He said he does not think there 

is any rea• Fife son to stay. now that his r.oach has been !ired. 
Assistant coach Mike Davis. Knight's top recruiter the past two seasons and the key link to the team for many players. also said his future in Bloomington rests with Knight. 
"Whatever coach tells me to do. whatever the players say, I'm going to do." Davis said Monday, walking out of Assembly Hall. 
Another player, freshman swingman A.J. Moye, said he likely would leave. too, and lashed out at university presi­dent Myles Brand, who fired Knight a day earlier. 
"I just feel like the whole administration. this whole school is screwed up, basical­ly," Moye said. "We were lied to. we were deceived and now it's over. all because people wanted r:oach out. They got their way. I hope they"re happy.... I hope they're just dancing somewhere happy. 

Twelve players lives are never going to be the same because of them." 
Other players -many came to Indiana solely because of Knight -were also turning to their former coach for guid­ance. Junior forward Jarrad Odle said Knight made it clr.ar to the team he's available any­time they want to talk. 
"He's going to be a friend to us now instead of a coach." Odle said. standing outside the building where banners mark Knight's three national champi­onships. "He's being a friend lo us and trying to get us to the best place we can be." 
What remains to be seen is whether the best place will be Indiana. 
"They've just got to simmer down and see what happens," Davis said of the players. "It all depends on what coach says." 
Knight. an old-school discipli­narian known as The General, was fired Sunday for a "pattr,rn of unacceptable behavior." 
The university now faces the task of replacing one of college basketball's great r.oarhcs while keeping together a team many considered the most tal­ented Hoosiers squad in years. 
"You've got some quality peo­ple and they are stunned by all of this," 0oninger said earlier in the day. "They are hurt by all of this. There's no question they came to Indiana Unjversity to play for coach Bob Knight." 
As for Knight. Davis and fel­low assistamt John Odle said they're sure the coach won't have trouble finding work. 
"He told us he's going to coach again." Odle said. "There's no doubt in my mind, he's one of the best coaches in the nation and for him to not move on to another school would be a shame." 
A large portion of the student body disagreed with the deci• sion to fire Knight. Ar.ross the campus Monday were rem­nants of the previous night's rallying, where thousands of students displayed pro-Knight banners and burned university president Myles Brund in effigy. Hanging by a rope outside one off-campus house was a stuffed human figure with thn name Kent llarvey written on its shirt. 
Harvey is the 19-year-old freshman who had a run-in with Knight that sparked the events leading to tho coach's dismissal. A sign by Lhf1 hang­ing figure said, "This is what we do to traitors." 
Harvey said Knight grabbed him by the arm and cursod at him after the frnshman greeted the coach at Assembly I I all by saying. "lley. what's up. Knight?" Knight said he had simply held the studont's arm and lectured him about man· ners. 
Hcgardlcss. Brand and other university of'firials saw thr, con­frontation -and other miscon• duct that had not been publi­cized -as thn final blow. 
Aftor reprimanding Knight in May and putting him under a zero-tolerance policy, the uni­versity acted quickly. unwilling to let this latest episode linger. 
But Knight's spirit will surely stick around. 
Once a new coach is hired and the team moves forward, Odle said he believes his old. red-sweatered coach will r.on­tinue having an impact. 
"If he's at home and he watches us on TV and doesn't like the way we play," Odle said, smiling for the first time. 'Tm sure we'll hear about it." 
__ a 
-

---,, -®
-

LATE TO THE NEW ECONOMY PARTY=­THE WORLD'S LARGEST STARTUP 
Jim Corgel General Manager -Net Generation Business IBM 
September 14th -4-5pm in Jordan Auditorium 
Come and hear how Jim Corgel, NDMBA '72, has led the world's largest startup. It's a great story ofcorporate entrepreneurship, culture transformation, hi-tech marketing, working with venture capitalists and business incubators, and the variety ofnew tactics required to market to startups and dot.corns. 
The MBA Marketing Club is holding a contest during the presentation for an entry fee of$5 (2:30 PM -3:45PM at the door). IBM will present a question and the person with the most correct answer will win a brand new IBM ThinkPad T20 Pentium III 750 (128/20) computer, donated by IBM. All proceeds will benefit the Notre Dame Marketing club. In the event ofa tie a name will be drawn at random. 
------------------------------------------------------, 
Tuesday, September 12, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS 
page 19 

Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 
Actors fro1n the London Stage As You Like It 
by William Shakespeare 
Thursday, September 14 ............. 7:30 pm 
Friday, September 15 ................... 7:30 pm
COME EDIT FOR OBSERVER 
Saturday, September 16 ............. 7:30 pm 
Playing at Washington Hall
SPORTS 
Reserved Seats $16 • Seniors $14 • All Students $1 2 Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128.
CALL 631-4543 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Red Sox salvage last ga01e froin Yankees 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Holando Arrojo pitched 
shutout ball into the> eighth 
inning, Jose Offerman and 
Manny Alexander homered 
and tlrn Boston R<'d Sox sal­
vaged the final ga1rn~ of an 
unusual four-game series, 
beating the New York 
Yankees 4-0 Monday night. 
Thf' Yankees swept a 
three-game set during the 
week1rnd in Boston. 
Not sinre July 8-9, 19S9, 
had these longtime rivals 
played at Fenway Park and 
Yankee Stadium nn r·onsecu­
t:ivc days N a rainout. on June 12 raused this makeup. 
Arrojo (!:i-2) outpitched Orlando llernandfiz 111-11) as Boston slopped New York's four-gam1c winning streak. 
The Hed Sox trail the Yank1-rns by eight gamrs in the> AL East. but closed with­in three gamns of Cltweland in the wild card raco. 
Arrojo gave up five hits in 7 1-3 innings, struck out seven and did not allow a runner past second base. 
He was in complete con­trol. even after being hit in the right hip by Jorge Posada's single in the ser.ond inning -only four days after Red Sox reliever Bryce Florie sustained extensive eye dam­age after being struck in the face by a linP drive by New York's Ryan Thompson. 
With the crowd of' 40,326 getting loud, Derek Lowe relieved with runnrrs on first and second in the Pighth and got Paul O'Neill to ground into an inning-ending double play. 
Lowe finished with a hitless ninth for his 32nd save, giv­ing the Red Sox their AL­leading 12th shutout. 
Orioles 3, Angels 1 
Sidney Ponson stopped his thrne-game losing streak with his fifth complPte gamp 
of thP season. and Jeff' 
Conine hit a solo homer as 
the Baltimore Orioles heat 
the Anaheim Angels. 
Ponson (8-11) scattered 
eight hits and struck out six, 
including Mo Vaughn twicr.. 
Vaughn's AL-high strikeout 
total rose to 160. 
The complete game was 
th(' 1 :Hh by t!rn Orioles this 
year. tying Toronto f'or the 
major league lead. 
Ponson walked two in win­
ning for only the second time 
in seven starts sinr.e July 31, 
with fuur losses ovnr thal 
span. 
llis pr<'vious win was 2-1 
ov,ir Kansas City on Aug. 20. 
lie gave up th0, Angr~ls' lone run on Garret AndPrson's IWI single> in th1c fourth. 
Con ilrn res to rti d th c 
Oriolps' two-run lead in thP 
sixth when he c.crnnected off 
Scott Schocneweis 17-8) for 
his 13th homN. 
White Sox 10, Tigers 3 
Frank Thomas hit a grand slmn and drove in liv<~ runs. increasing HB!s total to a career-high 139 as the Chicago White Sox beat Detroit, sending the Tigers to their sixth straight loss. 
Chicago, which has won four of' five, increased its AL Central lead to eight games over idle Cleveland. 
Thomas hit an HBI double in the first and addr.d a sec­ond grand slam of the season in the <cighth off NP!son Cruz. Thomas, who has seven career slams, leads llrn AL with 42 home runs and his HBis total leads tlw major leagues. 
His previous earner high was 134 in 1996. 
Mike Sirotka (14-10) won his fourth straight der.ision and matched his rarc,·r high in wins, set in 1998. !Ir gave up three runs and six hits in SPven innings. 
Bob Howry pitrhnd two innings for his seventh save in 1 2 chances. 

,-----------------------------------------­
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, Seprember 12, 2000 

VOLLEYBALL 
Winless Belles look to end slide 
By ALICIA ORTIZ Sports Wmer 
The Belles volleyball team has nothing to lose and every­thing to gain. 
Two games and one tourna­ment into the 2000 season, it has not brought home a single victory. 
Toci'ay the victory could comn to them. 
The Br.ll<is play their home opener tonight against the Kalamazoo Collegf' Hornets at 6;'.{0 p.m. 
"I think the home court advantage will delinitely help us," said Victoria Butcku, senior defensive specialist. 
"This is our first home game, I hope we will be able to rnsurrect and play as a toa.m." said freshman LeighAnnn Matnsich. 
The Belles are not relying on optimism alone to carry them against Kalamazoo. howcver.­
"We havn b1rnn working on reaction defense drills, going for everything. so nothing will hit the floor," 8utcku said. "Kalamazoo has always betm a solid team and we have played well against them." 
Last year. the Belles defeat­ed Kalamazoo in the first round of the M IAA volleyball tournament. 
The llornets are 3-6 with a roster or mostly upperclass­men. 
The 0-7 Belles are a young team. with only four veteran players. 
"I am encouraged by the energy level in practice. If we can carry that on Tuesday, we will do very well." said coach Julie Schroednr-Biek. "We have worked a lot on commu­nication and ball control in practice." 
"We are here because we want to play," said Angie Meyers. senior outside attack­er. "We need to hil well and play smart." 
After l~sing to Kalamazoo 
last year. the Belles are ready to defend their home court against the Hornets. 
"We have a lot of heart and desire," Meyers said. 
In spite of all the losses, everything this year is a learning experience for the BeJles and their coach. 
The Belles explained they find support in their coach and each other. They say they hope they will also have 

the support of the Saint Mary's community. 
"As a freshman I am excited to see what kind of support there will be, and to use it as positive energy to play well," Matesich said. 

Do you want to go to 
Disney World? 
Enter the Notre Dame 
vs Navy SUB contest so you can win the 
Student Travel Package 
that includes: 
the way he controls the football tean1."
Godsey 
Since Battle. Joey Getherall, continued from page 24 Brock Williams, Jabari -------------Holloway and David Givens the second quarterback in the woke him up on Sunday morn­future ing and told him of Battle's 
'Tllbestudyingasmuchasl injury, Godsey has been can, being attentive in l1lms," preparing for his major oppor­LoVecchio said. "Being in there tunity. 
and getting snaps will really lie has also been in touch help." with his older brother George, 
"We feel right now that Matt the starting quarterback at LoVecchio, at this point, proba-Georgia Tech, who completed bly has a little better grasp at 18-of-32 passes for 189 yards what we're doing offensively as and a touchdown in a 26-21 far as all the checks. getting us loss to No. 2 Florida State on in the right formation and the Saturday. right plays," Davie said. "But "He's a little bit bN1t up right that doesn't mean that we're now but he's given me conli­down on the other two guys dence as well." the younger [Clark and Holiday]. We cer-Godsey said. "He's put me in tainly realize thRir athletic abil-the worst sr:enarios to try to get ity. me to think about what's going 
"It's a short-range thing that to happen. I!e's helped mo out Matt LoVecr,hio's tbe backup a lot." quarterback. But it's a pretty With Godsev at thn helm, the permanent thing right now that Irish offense will be limited. Gary Godsey's the starting Davie expecls to run little or no quarterback." option plays and quarterback 
Godsey came to Notre Dame draws against Purdue whim last fall after throwing for morn Godsey is in the game. than 1,800 yards and 22 touch-And though he "expects downs at Jesuit High School in [Godsey! to play the whole foot­Tampa, Fla. But because of his ball game" on Saturday. Davie size, Godsey was initially a tight has not ruled out using one of end prospect. When C.J. Leak the freshmen in a limited spurned the Irish (and signed capacity. with Wake Forest) on signing "As the week goes on. maybn day in February 1999 and Erk we'II have a quarterback evolve Chappell was dismissed from that we can do some or thosP. the team last September, things with the option game. in Godsey became the third-string a reduced role," Davie said. quarterback behind Jarious Despite the unexpected loss Jackson and Battle. of the only quarterback with 
He entered last spring as the any college experience. Davin backup to Battle and completed remains confident. 12 of 23 passes for 148 yards "If you go back and look at in the Blue-Gold game. Godsey that tape [against Nebraska] as remained at Notre Dame for an unbiased person, you've got most of the summer and a hard time ~aying who the No. despite the addition of the 1 team in the country was as three highly-touted freshmen, far as effort, as far as intensity he remained the backup this and as far as physicalness." fall. Davie said. "We've got a 
"He's a very composed guy," chance to have a heck of a Davie said of Godsey. "In prac-team. And regardless or lice he just stands there and whether it's Gary Godsey or scans the field, there's very lit-Arnaz Battle at quarterback, tie panic to him and I like the we expect to go win the rest or way he conducts himself and our football games." 
A Two.person gift certificate for ND vs Navy game tickets, hotel accomadations, and two•day Disney World 
Thetne Park Passes! 
Look for us on September 13th & 14th at the Dining Halls and in Lafortune 
It's S2.00 to buy a ticket &: you may buy as many chances as you'd like 
Tuesday, September 12, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
She proved to herself that she can be a really good cross countrv runner. and that's going t<~ bo a big help to us down the road." 
The Irish used the first mr.et as a test of' how well thPy could run as a pack, rather than focusing on times. 
"\Ne still have some work to do. but we did work togethnr as a pack at thfl beginning," II andley said. "We wnre concerned with us running as a tl'am and win­ning overall more than Limes. Our freshman I was impressed with especially " 
The men ·s team also handi­ly out-rar:i>d its competition. but m,it by as large a margin as the women. Notre Dame totaled 27 points. while Western Michigan wound up in second with ]9 points. 
"It was a fairly good start, but we still have a lot to work on, so it's fairly mixed emotions," sophomore Marc Striowski said of the meet. 
Junior Luke Watson. the top returning runner, cap­tured the individual men's title in an 8,000-rneter Lime of 25 minutes, eight seconds. It was his first individual cross country meet champi­onship for the Irish. Striowski crossed the line 16 seconds behind Watson for sec<rnd place. 
"Wt> ran pretty well up front. and we 're pretty strong in our first six men or so. but we need to work on our depth and work together more," Striowski said. "It was a rust-buster to get the rust out of our system after not running since May." 
So, what's your money market paying? 

Belles 
continued from page 24 
played the front three spots in rotation last year. Victoria Butcko and Angie Meyers only played the back three. and Jamie Dineen was the back-up setter. 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team has not recruited for il'i team in the last 2 1/2 years. This, along with the lack of returning players, really causes problems for the team. 
"We really have very little depth," Schroeder-Biek said. 
Because of that, the women who are new to the team are being called on to play positions that are not their true positions. Freshman Leigh Ann Matesich was moved from a setter to a lead defender for the team. That's quite an adjustment for any player, especially one who is also trying to adjust to college competition. 
"But we have to play the women where we. a'i a team. need them," Schroeder-Biek said. 
In addition to not having depth, and moving to new posi­tions, several of the new players just do not have the refined skills that are usually found on a col­lege volleyball court. The players come from a variety of back­grounds, and at this point in the season the team still needs to work on the basic skills. With the Belles still focusing on basic skills they cannot be expected to be able to face off against strong competition successfully. 
"We have to give 100 percent heart, 100 percent body and 100 percent soul to even think about a win," Schroeder-Bick said. 
Unfortunately, there are teams with stronger skills giving that same 100 percent. 
This year's focus cannot be wins. This year's focus has to be the education necessary to become a power in volleyball. Basic skills, plays, and team cohesion are going to be what is 
NEED A DATE? 
Want to earn some money? Shop Online? 
Try lhemichianacollegeconnecl1on.1errashare.com 
important this season. 
Schroeder-Biek knows that her team is going to be fighting for wins this year. Challenges lie ahead. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Maybe it's time you checked out ours! 
r4NOTRE DAME
...__;a FEDERAL CllEDIT UNION 
For People. Not for Profit. 
219/239-6611 www.ndfcu.org 800/522-6611
Independent of the Uni venity 
'$15,000 minimum opening def)o5l. Annu>n Pereentage Ylelll ("PY) effe,;tive as of Sept. 8, 2000. APY is v.-.TIie A.PY wll char,ge eaon W-IIYIO n,ftect llleweel<JY treal"'Y au<;llan bond 
~@

equivalent yield for 91-day T-bllls. If Ille dally minimum balance fall below $16,000 on any given day, a $7 00 montllly maintenance I• will be assessed agalnal tl>O aca>unt. 1/MJrOby 19dlidng .....-.ngs. ~LENDER 
WELCOME BACK! 
SEATTLE'S BEST COFFEE WANT'S YOU TO JOIN US FOR OUR 30TH ANNIVERSARY KICKOFF CELEBRATION THURSDAY, SEPT.14 
FREE 
LATTES 
FROM 3-5 PM THEN JUST 70¢ ALL DAY 

Located in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 12, 2000 
WOMEN 's SOCCER 
Belles take on defending MIAA-champion Hornets 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Spores W,itcr 
If t.his wri>kcnd was big for Saint M,.ry's ,mccer, Tuesday is cwon morn important. 
Not only an' thn Kalamazoo 

College Ilorncts ranked 22nd in 
thr NCAA Division Ill pr(!Sf'ason 
poll. tlwy are also the ctr.fending 
MIAA champions two ycmrs run­
ning. But th1• B,•llcs arP ready 
and waiting. 
"I don't think ranking has to do with anything," Jessica Klink, B('lins co-captain, said. "We've br.1•11 very competitivi> lately. I have conlidenn· in the team." 
The Br.lies rrnter the contest with a 1-0 record and silting on top ol' thr MIA!\ standings. They havn an ovt>rnll 1-2 rt>cord aftN Wl)Pkt\nd los;;c.s to 5Lh-rank1;d Del'auw and Hose-llulman lnstilutP of'Tedrnology. 
'This werkPnd we had a cou­plt) of tough !osiws. but it prP­parnd us that murh more for Kalamazoo," Katy Hobinson said. "It's going to be a tough 
g:ame." 
The Bcl11~s lost to Kalamazoo 10-0 in 1998. then held the I lornel'i to two goals lo fall 2-0 in 1999. Kalamazoo finished the 1999 sC,L'>on with a 16-3 overall rer.ord. 
"I think if we play like we have been we do just tine," Klink said. "We've been close to Kalamazoo for the last two vcars." 
Several factors stand to make the Kalamazoo game a good one. Kalamazoo has a now coach in Matt Filner, who played for and graduatPd from Oberlin College in 1991, where he holds all thn offensive records. Adrienne Beller. a l'rnshman at Kalamazoo. has tied down the starting job in the net for the IlorneL'>. She will fare Belles net­minder Tia Kapphahn. who is also new to goaliP ,tiler spending the 1999 season on offense and b11ing thP. backup goalie in both ] 9!J8 and 1999. 
Belh1r has led the IlorneL'> to a 2-1-1 start overall, and the game at Saint Mary's will mark the op!'ning of lhPir ronference sea­son. Like Kapphahn. Belier's first collegiate start in goal turned endt~d in a shutout victo­ry against Illinois Wcsl11yan. The Hornets' single loss came at thP hands of' Wheaton College. while they tied Ohion North<~rn and also defeated John Carroll. 
"This weekend was good preparation," Stephanie Artnak said. 
Artnak, an aggressive mid­fielder for the Bolles. scored the first !{oal of the season on a penalty kick against Alma. and showed her defensive skills against Hosc-Jlulman this week­end. 
.. It's good to play the highest level team at the beginning or the season because then you know what to P.xpect," Artnak said. 
The Belles face Kalamazoo with new faces, skills. teamwork and optimism. 
"I know that they arc sup­posed to be really good," Laura Metzger said. "But I'm honored to even be on this tPam be<:ause these girls are so fabulous. They are not only phenomenal ath­letes. but they are good friends too." 
MP.tzgnr, a freshman. will ba<:k up Kapphahn in goal against Kalamazoo, but is ready to play up front if needed. as she did against DePauw. 
Although they have heard of Kalamazoo's reputation as a team with excellent defensive corps that received All-MIAA honors in 1999, the freshmen are not afraid. 
Stacey Nastase was first-team sweeper in the MIAA. and received help from Kim Hartman and Heather Pederson. Juniors Jessica Mueller and Lydia Haburn and as senior Heather White received se<:ond team MIAA honors. 
Raburn is already making her mark this year. earning Player of the Week for the first week of 2000 MIM play. 
She has generated the Hornets' only offense with goals in the win against Illinois Wesleyan and the tie with Ohio Northern. 
"We hope to play as a team and not get frustrated," Kristen Greenwood, a freshman forward for the Belles, said. 




Fr. Theodore M. Heshurgh, C.S.C 
Awarded Congressional Gold Medal July 13, 2000 
"I want nothing else, have never wanted anything else, have never been anything else but a priest." 
ANSWER ~ THECALL '<!::/ 

www.nd.edu/-vocation 

Tuesday, September 12, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TYLER
TOM KEELEY 

THINGS COULD BE WORSE
FOURTH AND INCHES 
WHATELY 
0 
80 ROOMS? .3000 SEATS? ARE YOU SVRE YOU ONLY WANT TWO DOORS TO 
THlS THING? 
BILL AMEND

Fox TROT 
WHO WANTS To BE 
Yov ICNOW,

1-foW COULD iHIY CUT ME 
WAS I THAT BAO LAS1' 
TEAMED UP WITH A 
THERE

FROM VARSITY FooTBALL 
YEAR?! WAS l THAT 
8UNCH OF OVERSIZED
WHEN I [)10lll'T EVEN 
AWFUL?! AM I SUCH A 
1 ARE 

l ALTERNA1'1VES. 
i -----­


,L 
...­
• 
,,. 
" 

How the doctors at health services diagnose patients. 
---------------~---~-----------------------------------------------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
B E 
0 N 1 T 
---+--+---+-,-t 
--,,t~:-:+=+,,-,-S

D A 

.,., 

U S --+-..,.+,,-+-,-+,,-L A s H __.___._~...._ E R 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
67 Marilyn Monroe facial feature 68 Atl. fliers 69 Tropical fish 
DOWN 
1 Two-palms­down signal 
2 "You're _, ya know that?": Archie Bunker 
a Sight at a station 4 Sews up s Fit snugly one inside another s "Honor Thy Father" author 1 Bull session shout? a Time for a makeup game 9 Strong puff 
10 Ousts 
11 Put out 
12 Noted Swiss 
mathematician 13 Bikini experiment, for Puzzle by Alan Arbesfeld 
short 33 Begin to wake 1e Controversial 
22 24 26  apple growth regulator "Olympia" painter Tall bird Egyptian Christian  34 35 37 aa 39  Via Veneto auto, briefly Stand up to Ordered room service, say Food scrap Fast sellers  
21  That's a laugh!  41  Mischievous  
28  Peck role of  one  
1956  44  Ingrid's  
29  Futuristic play of 1921  "Anastasia" co-star  
30  Bed-and­ 46  Can't stomach  
breakfast  47  Brown spot  

Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name 
Address 

City _______State ____ Zip______ 

48 Son of s1 Slender reed Aphrodite 
ss Boston player, 49 Voiced informally 
50 Malarkey 59 Regan's father 51 Vinegar: Prefix ao Viewfrom 52 Sherpa's home Catania ss Theories 83 Acct. info 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
Happy Birthday: You need to be careful who you trust this year. What you do and what you preach may be two different thi~gs. You must be careful whom you let influence you when it comes to important issues. You must re-evaluate your motives and make sure you are pursuing goals that you truly believe in. If you get involved with those who think the same way you do, there will be a bet­ter chance for success. Your numbers: 10, 13, 29, 34, 42, 48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get out with friends. Yow home environ­ment will be unstable and upsetting if you stick around. You need to be around positive people who can offer you good conversation and sound advice. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Let the talks begin. Your lover may be having a problem with the way your relationship is going. A close relative may be able to shed some light on your personal situation. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Ro­mantic encounters will be emotional and intense. You are likely to meet someone new when you least expect it. Take care of medical or financial problems. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your mate will be really good at making you feel bad. Get out of the house and start to do things that will raise your self-esteem. It's time to get back into shape both mentally and physically. 00000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Get busy moving things around at home. fnvite friends over for a fun-filled night of . entertainment. Property investments will pay off. Lady Luck is on your side. Take advantage of your good 

Birthday Baby: You have great potential that must not be allowed to go to waste. You need to be properly educated in order to reach your highest aspira­tions. If you are given the opportunity to learn, your greatest gifts will develop into something very powerful. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
EUGENIA LAST 

fortune.00 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Push to get a reclusive friend out and involved in groups you belong to. You can expect him to be reluctant and nervous at first, but that will pass. He'll be glad you took him by the hand. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You will have a problem with loved ones if you get in the middle of an argument that doesn't concern you. It is best to sit back and do your own thing. Let them ask for help if necessary. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You need to get back into the hobbies you used to enjoy. Let your talent grow and satisfy your needs. It's time to do a little something for yourself. If you're happy, you can make others happy.000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't be a coward. If you are having a medical problem, get it checked out. You'll feel much better knowing that you're going to be all right. Putting up with something unnecessarily is silly.000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): It's time to do a little self-reflecting. Don't think your family hasn't noticed the change in you. You might be wise to spend some time by your­self sorting out your thoughts and direction. 0000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You have so much to offer. Put your cre­ative imagination to work for you. Incorporate your ideas into your everyday routine. It's time you start­ed believing in yourself. 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Find ways to improve yourself. Change your hair style or buy new outfits that will alter your image. Take a fresh look at your options. It's time to make changes. 00000 
1 Subbed (for) a Binge 10 Churchill 
successor 14 Lickety-split 1s Boxer's fare 16 Strike from a list 11 Prepares a 
veggie? 19 Be a crybaby 20 Letter from Jude 21 Agents of 
retribution 23 Let up 25 "Heads up!," 
e.g. 26 Leftover veggie? 31 Pearl Harbor 
locale 32 The Reader 33 Dispirited ae Many a 
mummy, in life 
42 ft might be run at a bar 43 "Iliad" city 45 Tee off 46 Pesticide for a veggie? so Le Due Tho's capital 53 Mild cigar 54 South Seas islands 56 Accessory for Mr. Peanut e1 Kind of woman e2 Forgets about a veggie? 64 Bryce Canyon locale 65 Presenter of choices 
&& The Man Without a Country 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS .40 Qualify 


Taking down the champ 
The Saint Mary's soccer team takes on the No. 22 and defending MIAA champion Kalamazoo al home today. 
page 22

PORTS 
OTHE 

page 24 BSERVER Tuesday, September 12, 2000 
Belles need to net wins 
They're young. 
They're inexpNienrPd. They're still adjusting to playing at the college hwel. 
Sure, thesP arP all very good masons why any team would
-
haw a rocky start to their sea­son. But are lhPy rt\ally good rea­sons why a Leam is dropping games to rornpetition that thr.y laughed at last year? This sea­son has started off with somn­thing morn like a llop than a bang for the Saint Mary's volley­ball h\am. Following last year's 17-15 season that left the Belles in third place in the MIA\, it was sUtrting to look as if maybe Saint Mary's would have a real win­ning sports team this season. However. this vear's statistics would prove otherwise. It's true that the Belles gradu­ated several of lheir important starting players last year, but those of us who follow the Volleybclles were expecting slightly better than an 0-7 start this season. The team is once again under the direction of head coach Julie Schroeder-Biek, who was the head coach from 1991-1996 ller prior experience gave fans another mason to expect good, if not groat things, from thLc; team. Ilowever, there is only so much a coach can do fr>r her team. Saint Mary's is again trying lo adjust itself to a new coach. The bq{inning of the I999 season saw the Belles with a new coach. and now, for the second year in a row they face readjust­ment. With all the turnover in coach­ing. the team has not had con­sistent training. They had to sp1md the majority of presea'ion learning how Schroeder-Bick wanted them to pass, set and dig. Adjusting to new coaching alone would cause problems for any team, but this young team has other problems to face as well. The Belles haw no starters rnturning to their same posi­tions. Jolie LeBeau, this year's starting middlt-> hitter. only 

see BELLES/page 21 

FOOTBALL 
Davie names Godsey new starter 
By TIM CASEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
He was recruited here as a tight end, played only two seasons at quarterback in high school and has never taken a snap in a college game. 
Rut on Saturday, sophomore Gary Godsey will be the starting signal caller when Notre Dame host..; No. 12 Purdue. 
"I'm ready," Godsey said after practire Monday. ''I've .iust got to keep r.alm and slow things down. With the athletes I have around me, I don't think that will be that big of' a problem." 
Godsey was thrust into the rolP aft,,,r J\rnaz Battle t'racturnd the navicular borrn in his lef't wrist on the lirst play of Saturday's 27-24 loss to Nebraska. Battle will have surgery Tuesday and have a screw placed in the navicular. 
According to coach Bob Davie, Batlle will be oul for a minimum of 6 to 8 weeks and lhal there's a "strong possibility" of Uaitlfl missing the remainder of the season. 
"With each player it heals a little bit dilfor­ently," Davie said. "We're not going to even risk it to bring him back until it's fully healed. I think the right decision has been made. It's what's best for him." 
Davie announced his decision to the entire team before practice Monday, a day after say­ing the position was open for competition. The 6-foot-6 inch, 235-pound Godsey beat out freshmen Jared Clark, MattLoVocchio and Carlyle Holiday for the starting nod. In the hours after hearing of Battle's injury, several players approached Davie and unanimously pleaded for Godsey as the starter against the Boilermakers. · 
"That was important to me," Davie said. "Our players feel good about it, they're excited about Gary Godsey." 
Lovecchio, a 6-foot-3 inch 200 pounder from Franklin Lakes, N. J. worked as the backup Monday but may not necvssarily be 
see GODSEY/page 24 

Irish pass first test with win at Valparaiso 

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish cross country 
teams passed their first test 
of the 2000 season. easily 
defeating its lesser oppo­
nents Western Michigan 
and Chicago State in the 
Valparaiso Invitational. 
The women's squad 
stonewalled the competi­
tion, finishing first, second, 
third, fifth and sixth in the 
race for an overall score of 
17 points, far better than 
W~stern Michigan's 45 
points. 
"To be very honest, the 
competition wasn't great," 
women's cross country 
coach Tim Connellv said. 
"We scored 17 points and 
actually had 15 in the top 
20. We put three in front of their first runner. It was actually even more lopsided than the score." 
Sophomore Jennifer Handley won the 5,000­meter race in a time of 17 minutes, 58 seconds. Just behind her were junior Hilary Burn in 18 minutes, 16 seconds, and freshman Megan Johnson. 
"I'll tell you who I was really, really pleased with was Hilary Burn," Connelly said. "She and Megan did a really, really good job of running together the entire race. 
"Last year Hilary missed the entire season with mono, and freshman vear sbe came in and wa'sn't really ready to go a whole lot after a long Lrack sea­son," Connelly continued. "I don't think she was really sure of herself as far as her ability to run cross country. 
see IRISH/page 2 l 


Volleyball Volleyball vs. 'X'ashington .. vs. Valparaiso I~ Saturday, 12 p.m.
vs. Kalamazoo
SPORTS (sf) E!J
Today, 7 p.m Today, 6:30 p.m. 
ATA 

vs. Kalamaz.oo vs. Purdue ac Syracuse
s1tlc ,~
Today, 5.p.m. Samrday, 12 p.m. Sarnrday, 1 p.m. 
•.:
GLANCE 
* 








