'' 
Striking students
Keenan Revue review 

Monday
More than 600 students were arrested during a

Scene reviews Keenan Hall's annual collection 
protest at the National Autonomous 

ofmusicians, comedians and magicians. 
University ofMexico.
held last weekend. 

FEBRUARY 7, 
Scene . page 13 

WorldNation . page 5 

2000 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

VOL XXXlll NO. 77 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Committee favors Renner/Nagle after balked ballot 
Monday, emerged ahead of Koelsch/Rodarte, with 46.5 percent of the total vote. Koelsch/Rodarte fell behind with 4:~. 7 
percent of the vote. 
The Koelsch/ Hodarte ticket could not be reached for com­ment early Monday morning. 
Renner's appeal states that 

Rosenbush unduly Koelsch relinquished responsibility for the election from the proper BOG committee. 
"It is not within Georgeanna's dis-


. Renner appeals Koelsch/Rodarte win after 'improper' election 
Hy NOREEN GILLESPIE S.1im l'v!Jry's EJiwr 
Crissie li1'n1rnr·s Sunday-night appeal of Friday's presidential votn nullifiPd final 1ih•ctio11 results and lt>l't tlw H1•1111er/l\;aglc ticket victorious. according to reports from Renner and thn Board of' Govnrnance Election Committ!rn. 
Emily Koelsch and Hachele Rodarte originally SP<·unid victory in Friday's •~lection, carrying 51 percent nf Saint Mary's ballots. Friday's vote, the third in tbe 2000 campaign, was authorized bv Student 
.r\-ctivities director Georgeanna Hosen bush after Wednesday's runoff ended in a tic. 
/\ftnr more than throe hours of debate Sunday night, the Elections 

Committee tallied Renner raw votes from Mondav and Wednesday's elections. 
The ·Renner/Nagle ·ticket, having secured 43 percent of the raw vote on 

Saint Mary's alumnae (left to right) Carol Rafferty, Jen Moore and Vivian Ostroski discuss their homosexuality as part of the College's Identity Week Friday. 

Alumnae open up about homosexuality 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Saini Mary's Edicm  
As students, silent. As aluspoke.  they mnae,  were they  

Breaking the years without voices they experienced as students at Saint Mary's, four homosexual alumnae broke the silence and began to speak Friday at the culminating event of the College's Identity Week. Some spoke of silence, some spoke of pain; all spoke of what it meant to hide who thcv really were from a com­rn u.nity t·hat didn't always understand. 
Each woman brought a per­spective from a different point in the College's history, from days of uniform-clad confor­mity to the '80s fads of lzod shirts and designer jeans. While some spoke of the futures they found for them­selves, others depicted accep­tance and change during their time on campus. 
Carol 

Carol Raf'ferty, Class of 1963, remembers her two years as a Saint Mary's stu­dent in colors that were as expressive as she was allowed to be. 
She recalls dull charcoal gray uniforms and white blouses, each woman sporting the required attire from the College, marching one by one down the tree-lined avenue during required physical fit­ness walks. 
But above all, she remem­bers a gray silence. 
"The atmosphere here was very quiet, very closeted," said Carol, who had known about her sexual identity before coming to campus. But dis­cussing homosexuality was a far off notion at that point, buried in an environment that hardly mentioned heterosexu­ality. 
"lt was spoken about in hushed tones among three or four people," she said. "People would whisper, 'Oh, did she do it't' but it was all very quiet. Lesbianism and homo­sexualitv were not talked about -· they simply did not exist." 
Furthermore, there was a clear heterosexual standard inherent in the educational process. With most young women filtering in for elemen­tary education or nursing degrees, while majors such as religious studies were still 
see ALUMNAEfpage 6 
cretion to make this decision, but rather, the Elections C,ommittee," Renner said in the appeal. "Those pre­simt at ballot counting assumed that Georgeanna was familiar with election bylaws, yet the Elections Committee was not notified that it was their ulti­mate authority to make the final deci­sion. 
She went on to say that Friday's third vote should have allowed off­campus students to vote in the off­campus lounge as they had Monday and Wednesday. While they were allowed to vote in the dining hall, based on the precedence set in the 
see ELECTIONS/page 4 
SafeRide 


undergoes rev1s1ons 
By LAURA ROMPF Assistam News Editor 
SafeRide, the transportation system driving students from off-campus locations back to Notre Dame, has undergone revisions after its termination at the end of last year and should be running again in the next few weeks. 
Although Matt Mamak, stu­dent government chief of staff, noted that the program was successful when it began three years ago, it faltered with lack of volunteers. Responsibility for SafeRide seemed to be too much for someone already involved in many aspects of student government. 
"As the program continued, it faced increased difficulty. The coordinator, who worked for student government, also had to find volunteers, make sure the vans were re.ady, have people to work the phones," Mamak said. "This was a big responsibility over the course of the semester. 
"The program became inconsistent, so we decided to reevaluate and think about it again. We wanted to find a way to improve SafeRide," he added. 
Mamak estimated that on peak nights, 60 to 70 calls were received. However, on off nights, only about 10 to 15 calls were received. 
Other complications added to SafeRide's problems. It was expanded last year to three nights and incentives were offered to volunteers. 
"Last year was the first night the program was expanded to three nights [Thursday, 
see SAFERIDE/pagc 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, February 7, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 

I like tigers: big ones 
So usually I walk by the old lady that sits low. hiding in the brush, waiting for the evil dark ones who seek to destroy Notre Dame by stealing a chair or table from the dining hall. Legend has it that the day they figure out how to get a table through that side door by Dillon that Catholicism itself will meet its doom. 
These predators of truth and justice stand ever vigi­lant, watching and wait­ing, and then belting a hearty "Come back here1" every time I run out the side door. While running like mad, I realize that I left a quality newspaper, such as this one, on the table. l feel bad for a sec­ond, but ttwn I realiw "I just paid to eat there. That lady can pick up my paper. Besides she's bored. You can tell by the way her shifty eyes move around." 
Here's another thing that's heen bothering me, these people that play in the snow. It's snow. It's cold. I hate it. Snow is God's wav of making the wise suffer and the ignorant · happy because they get to dance in the lovely snow all day.... stupid. Tubing is fun, or maybe pretending you're a fish and hopping into a pile using no hands. Other than that, if you're going to play in the snow, you might as well shovel it up. Then take it back to your room. Build a snow fort, play snow football, actually, just make a big pile and make sure you whap your rector upside the head with an iceball when he asks you what just what the heck you think you are doing. Hemember, anybody that can't see the fun in snow has no sense of humor. Hight? 
Point in case: the credit card people. I hate these wonderful pillars of the community. I bet they breed under my basement stairs. That's where the monsters live. They call me and say "This is a courtesy call on behalf of blah blah blah.... ". Now most people hang up right now, and if you don't, you can smell the anticipation of the swindler waiting for the click, followed by the joyful noise of the dial tone. or course, this only provides them a reason to call you again when you 're not feel­ing quite as grouchy. Hence, I go into my routine. To stop getting these untimely calls, waste at least twenty to thirty minutes of their time. Start by asking simple questions, such as "What are these newfangled contrap­tions of which you speak, these credit cards?" Of course pull your worst medieval English accent and speak to them as if you're a beg­gar, real high pitched and whiny-like. I'm sure these people make more than minimum wage, and if they're going to waste my time, they're going to earn every penny of it. Then ask if they would be interested in trading a limb for some bread. At this point, you have instilled a nice, healthy sense of "My god, maybe this person shouldn't be automatically approved... " and then you're behind the wheel for a change. Always remember this one thing when dealing with these people. They eat shopping carts. Maybe they don't chew them, but trust me, they eat the whole thing. 
The 11iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Maureen Smithe Amanda Greco Colleen McCarthy Graphics Lindsay Frank Scott Hardy Sports Production Mik, Connelly Mike Connellv Viewpoint Lab Tech Amanda Greco Joe Stark 
The Observer [USPS 59~ 2-4000) i, published Mond,,y ,luough Friday ~xccp, during ex.am and ,..-acation periods.. The Ob.~crver i.s a mcmbea of the A~soci.ucd Prc.-:s. AH reproduction rlghrs are reserved. 
THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 
Monday  Tuesday  
. Film: "Blade Hunncr," 7  . Lecture: Dr. Michael  
p.m.. Suite Museum  Eric Dyson. author "Hace  
. Lecture: "History or  nutos: I\Jtwigating the  
Gospel Music," noon,  Color Line." 7:30 p.m.,  
Haggar Parlor, Saint  llesburgh Library  
Mary's College  Auditorium  
. Film: "Baghdad Cafe," 7  
p.m.. Snitc Museum  

Wednesday 
. 
International Film Festival: "Private Life." 7p.m., Montgomery Theater, LaFortune 

. 
Prayer service: Christian prayer and praise service, 9 p.m.. Sacred Heart Chapel, Saint Mary's 


Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Grand jury indicts LSU student for stabbing of dean 
BATON ROUGE, La. 

A grand jury indicted a Louisiana State Universitv student Wednesday for attempted second degree murder in connection with the Jan. 24 stabbing of' interim dean of students John Baker. 
Marques Smith, a philosophy junior, was also formally charged with impersonating a peace officer and two counts of forgery, said prosecutor Aaron Brooks. 
The forgery charges stem from Smith allegedly signing his profos­sors' names on grade change sheets in December, and the other charges refer to him allegedly impersonating an FBI officer at Baker's house, Brooks said. 
Ile said Smith allegedly changed the grades in two of his classes: Chemistry 1001 and French 150 I. 
Smith allegedly changed his "F" in chemistry to an "A" and his "D" in French to a "B," Brooks said. 

Smith, 20, is currently booked in East Batun Houge Parish Prison, and bail is set at $250,000. 
The District Attorney's Office has set Smith's tentative trial datB as July 17. Brooks said. 
Smith could face a maximum of' 50 years jail time or a minimum of 10 if he is l'ound guilty of these charges, Brooks said. 

UNH blocks access to MP3 Web site 
DURHAM,N.11. 

University of New Hampshire Computing and Information Services (CIS) has blocked access to a popular MP3 music Web site, sparking questions and frustration among students who use the service. Early last week, Telecom found that UNII had P-xcessive traf­fic related to MP3s and Napster.com, a site also under investigation for copyright violations. This was enough to persuade C!S to block access. "It's a work in progress, and we are operating with the information we have," said Peter Brym. director of client services at UNH. "UNH is simply responding to the fact that there is a cease and desist order, and I respect stu­dents for wondering what's happ1111ing." Napster is a popular worldwide distributor of MP3 (music) files, which allows its users to freely exchange files among its members. Users can search for music through a directory, which lists users who already have MP3s downloaded onto their computers. The legality of what the site distributes to its members is still under ques­tion, with a lawsuit pending against the site for violat­ing copyright information, reportedly by Sony. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWenther® forecast for dayume conditions ant! high temperature, 
H  L  
Monday  ~  34  13  
Tuesday  c:t:1  36  31  
Wednesday  ~  45  28  
Thursday  ~ ·:·.t./i,  35  20  
J } Friday tt . \.f"'"'· ·"\/,..,··,._...,/  Q>t··•::  36  25  

Q,Q,~q~Q ti ~ u 
Showers T~starms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
ViaAssOCtBled Press Gri:!phicsNet 
Thursday 
. Blood Drive: 9 a.m. to 
3:30 p.m., H.olfs Sporlts Hee Center 
. Performance: "Grease," 
7:30 p.m., Pasquerilla East Music Company, Washington IJail 
Smith allegedly stabbed Baker at his 141 University Highlands Court home at about 7:10 a.m. on Jan. 24, after he was informed by letter that the University was investigat­ing him on charges of grade tam­pering, 
According to I.SUPD, Baker was backing out of his driveway when a man approached his car. and aftRr the man identified himself as an J-iBI agent. ho told Baker to get out of the car. 
Baker opened the door, and as he began to exit, the man stupped between the car and the door. 
The man had a large kitchen knil'e, and he and Baker struggled over the knife. 
During the struggle, Baker sus­tained wounds to his neck and around his ears, and Smith receiwid a wound to his arm. 
High housing costs concern Stanford 
STANFORD. Calif. 
The future of Stanford's prestigious pool of faculty could be in danger because of the escalating price of housing in the Silicon Valley, according to faculty and staff who am working on the issue. While the university has been concerned with housing for fac­ulty and students sinco its inception in 1891, the housing problem, especially for faculty members, has become so acute that associate provost Jeff Wachtel said it "has become a crisis situation in the last two to three years." "Housing has always been an issue for incoming faculty here and also for the retention of faculty because this area is more expensive than other parts of the country. It used to be that we could neutralize housing as a factor by using special pro­grams to help faculty members cover tlrnir housing costs," Wachtel said. These programs, which impact the purchase of homes both on and off campus, hav,~ included a housing allowance available for a fixed period of time, a down payment assistance loan and a mortgage assistance loan that is set at a low inter­est rate. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for 0000, Monday, Feb. 7. 
....-,,r.-,.-~ SOs Lines separate high ternperature zones for the day. 
10s 
5 
FRONTS: 
~ ........ -~ 

C 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 

\lfa ABsocialod PrtJS(; 
Atlanta  60  45  Las Vegas  69  40  Portland  54  43  
Baltimore  49  22  Memphis  62  36  Sacramenlo  63  45  
Boston  40  11  MilwaukM  32  13  St Louis  46  23  
Chicago  34  15  New York  47  21  Tampa  69  45  
Houston  72  44  Philadelphia  47  22  Wash DC  50  26  


Dyson to speak at 
lecture series 
r.---------~-...______,___"'""!"'________________... 
______________________'!""":'"_~~IIIR-.... ... 
Monday, February 7, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Aquinas' journey silllilar to ours 
work, the Summa theo]ogiae, O'Meara said. "The divine in

By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
as describing a journey. it is not fluid. In the News Writer 
"The sacraments take place Eucharist, the divine is pre­within the journey," O'Meara sent and stays there. Aquinas' Father Thomas O'Meara said. "They pertain to the reason for the real presence brought Thomas Aquinas into human life [of Christ the new millenium in his lec­cycle. Grace in the ture "Real People and Real draws nature Eucharist]
"The issue for us is to go

Presence: Thomas Aquinas to its des­was that on the Sacraments," held on tiny." on a journey. We go on what is Saturday as part of the day­The final this journey not by steps most char­long Third Annual Thomas journey that acteristic
but by the actoins of

Aquinas Symposium. O'M:eara dis­of friend­
"The issue for us is to gu on cussed was our lives. " ship is a journey," O'Meara said. "We the journey of presence. go on this journey not by steps ordinary Friends
Father Thomas O'Meara

but by the actions of our lives. human life, hang out
lecturer

The sacraments mark special and how they w i t h events on the journey [of relate to the friends. life]." sacraments (;od wants 
O'Meara opened his lecture and thdr particular order. to be with us because God with remarks about journeys "The sacraments are for wants to be our friend." in life. Thomas Aquinas' jour­real persons. They are not for O'Meara then tacklfld the ney through life is similar to dead people," O'Meara said. concept of the Eucharist and our own. O'Meara said. "Sacraments contact people its accidental and divine com­
"In that through ponents. journey to their sens­"The risen Christ is in the
''The sacraments are for

college is es and Eucharist," ()'Meara said. Aquinas' real persons. They are emotions. "The substance was the whole life," The rea­underlying reality of the
not for dead people.

O'Meara son we thing. All of the accidents
Sacraments contact

said. "He h a v e remain. What we perceive leaves his people through their sacra­still remains: the bread and. wholP familv mentsis the wine. Our faith srrns some­
senses and emotions."

for the big because thing deeper," he continued. city. He we are "Our faith says that the leaves a pla­Father Thomas O'Meara animals underlying reality is that of tonic way of lecturer endowed Christ." life for sci­with sense With his final thoughts, ence and a and rea-O'Meara related Aquinas' world of images for one of an son. The sacraments are concerns about the different Aristotelian era. He leaves the going to reach our minds views of the Eucharist. One monsastic world to join the through the senses. The grace theory, still prevalent today, is Dominicans. All those jour­comes through the contact that the Eucharist is merely a neys are taking place at the with the sense, although not symbol. edge of a new era, the High all grace comes through the "This is heretical because it Middle Ages. He walks into sacraments." is contrary to the words of 
his destiny. He walks into The primary focus of Christ," O'Meara said. those worlds and likes them. O'Meara's lecture on Aquinas "[Aquinas) prefers to call He was a person of enormous was the sacrament of the them signs, [because] the self-confidence at 17." Eucharist. sacraments are not only sym­
O'Meara related Aquinas' "It's unlike all the others," bols." 
By MAUREEN SMITHE Assistant News Ediror 
Ordainecl Baptist minister. best selling author and schol­ar Michael Eric Dyson will speak at the Ilesburgh Library Auditorium at 7:30 p.m .. Dv~on will Im t.hc k<\ynotc s1>oakPr as part or Office 01· Multicultural Student Affair's continuing lecturn and l'ine art series titled "Lcadorship in Diversity: necognizing Our Hole Models." 
"I saw him at a conference a year and a half ago, an<l he is tlH\ most dynamic. artic11lah! and motivitional speaker I havu ever seen," said Kevin Huie. OMSA's assistant direc­tor. "I don't think many stu­dents know about him, and r know students will get a lot out ui' whal he has to say." 
Dyson has taught at Brown Uni\'ersity and Columbia, and is currnntly a "first professor at Del'aul." said Jluifl. "lie grew up in inner city Detroit and had whal can be consid­ered an atypical experience getting lo college." 
The author of "Hace Rules: Navigating the Color Lines" and "Between God and Gangsta Hap: Bearing Witness to Black Culture," Dyson will also hold a book signing. 

r-g Manin luther King Speech Writing Contest deadline 
C.ENTLR ,oR 

SOCIAL extended te Februarv 8. First nrize is attendence at 
CONCERNS 

the Civil Highs and social Change Seminar 



CIVIL RIGHTS & SOCIAL CHANGE 
SEMINAR 
Spring Break, March 12-18, 2000. 
THE SEMINAR 
• 
An Experiential Learning Seminar created to provide hands-on exposure to the living history ofthe Civil Rights Movement in America: 

• 
Travel to Atlanta ,Birmingham, Montgomery & Selma, the sites of historic Civil Rights actions in the 1950's and 1960's. 

• 
Visit students and staff at educational institutions which cultivated the minds and spirits of the Student Leaders of the '60's. 


• Tours of the King Center in Atlanta, the National Civil Rights Institute in Birmingham, the Southern Poverty Law Center in Montgomery. 
• The Seminar connects the past with the future by stimulating ideas and conversation about today's society 3o+ years after the Civil Rights Movement. 
APPLICATIONS  Application must include:  
Available at the CSC  Deposit: $40 of $125 fee due with  
application: check or money order  
EXTENDED DA TE:  ONLY; payable to the Center for Social Concerns (if accepted non­ 
Tuesdav. Feb. B. 2000  refundable).  
Further Information:  Jay Caponigro at the CSC@ 631-5293  

LEADERS 
Full-time college student or graduate. Starting salary, $32,000. Post offer mental and physical screening. 
Marine Officer Programs Call toll free for an interview 1-877-299-9397 www.MarineOfficer.com 
How will you start the millennium? 
Advising farmers in Benin Teaching physics in Nepal Planting trees in Mongolia Preventing AIDS in Ecuador 
Film & Information Session • Center for Social Concerns Tuesday, February 8 • 6:00 -7:30 p.m. 
Information Seminar • Lafortune Student Center -Bring a Bag Lunch! Tuesday, February 8 • 11:30 a.m. -1:00 p.m. 
Interviews • Career Center, Ranner Hall Wednesday & Thursday, February 9 & 10 • 8:30 a.m. -4:30 p.m. 
Information Table • Hesburgh Library Lobby Monday & Tuesday, February 7 & 8 • 9:00 a.m. -4:00 p.m. 
Selecting NOW for summer 2000 departures! 
Q 
For an application, call (800) 424-8580, option 1 -or­visit our Web site www. eacecor s. ov. 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February i', 2000 
SafeRide 
continued from page 1 
rriday, and Saturday!, Also in addi­tion. dorms and clubs could sponsor a night and cam $50," said Michael Palumbo, student body vice µresi­dent. 
"It was Lhe first year there was i11centive to work. the first two years the program depended com­pletely un volunteers," Palumbo added. 
All these complications pcrsuadod studenL leaders lo reevaluate the program. 
"I was a skeptic at lirst, and won­dered whether we really need tho program because we did not rPcr.JiV(' phone calls complaining that the program didn't exist," Mamak said. "However, after sitting on the com­mittee and talking to students, I saw a definite need for the program. From there we worked on improve­ments to make SafeRide successful 
again." 
"At the beginning of this year we didn't feel many of the problems were resolved, so the Student Gnion on Transportation committee was formed," Palumbo said. 
The committee -made up of sen­ators, hall presidents, student gov­f'rnment and treasury office mem­bers -compiled a report and pre­sented it to Senate in ;\lovember. 
After reviewing the report, the Senate concluded that the service was still in demand, Palumbo said. 
"A new plan was devised to address the problem that there was no central coordinator," he said. "The new proposal called for a coordinator who would be employed through the security office." 
The coordinator would be paid $7.10 an hour. the highest rate a student can earn, Palumbo said. Their responsibilities would include publicity, getting.volunteers or employees, and also training these employees. 
In addition to hiring an outside roordinator, the new plan cut SafeHide to two nights of operation. 
CROWD PLEASERS 

Elections 
continued from page 1 
previous two votes, "it is obvious that this fllection was improperly conductAd." 
Henner stressed early Monday morning that estab­lished regulations were not followAd in this case. 
"Bottom lirrn, my m.ain concern was thaL Lhe Elections Committee was not given the jurisdiction to make that decision Wednesday night," Ilenner said early Monday morning. "This was not a personal uttar.k on Emily Koelsch and Rachele Rodarte. It was a faulty election on Friday and I was very conr.erned about that." 
Hesults may not remain final. however. 
According to Board of Governance bylaws, parties have 48 hours after Lhe final vote to appeal results before they become final. The lat­es l decision will become official shortly after mid­night Tuesday. 
"We realize this is an emo­tion al strain for everyone involved," said Allison Wade, an Elections Committee spokesperson. "As the Elections Committee, we represent the student body and think this was the best decision. We're sticking to it." 
Renner said she, Michelle Nagle, Koelsch and Hndarte will meet this morning to discuss possible combination of their tickets in positions of president and vice presi­dent. 
"Right now we are under discussion about what would be best for the student body," Henner said. 

American Heart a'a 
Association.~ 

Fighting Heart Disease and Stroke 
A bequest to the American Heart 
Association says something special about the giver. It's an expression ofhope, agiftof · health given to generations to 
· come. It's an unselfish act that 
shows you care aboutothers and want to leave the world betterthan you found it Your 
gift will be used to fund research andeducational 
programs to fight heart attack, stroke, high blood ~and otherheart and bloodvessel diseases. To find new ways to stop the sadness, sufferingand death -and give others the freedom ofgood health. To learn more abouthow you can leave a legacy for the future, call 1-800-AHA-USAl. Do it today. 
TNs ~provided as a public se~. 01992, 1997, American Hear! Associalton 

...and lhe buck stops here-At the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union where we're for people, not for profit. · 
Go team. 
r,f!! NOTRE DAME 
~~ F~DERAL CREDIT UNION 
for People. Not F'or Prollt 
2 l 9-239-6611 
www.ndfcu.org e-mail: ndfcu@ndfcu.org 
NDEPENDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY 


F.·.
~ 
. 
.

orld 
I-~ 


Monday, February 7, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Prostitutes paid to quit 
ABUJA. l\'igeria 
A stalfl that recently f'rntcted Islamic law is offering lo pay $250 to every prostitute willing to gin: up her trade anc] get married. The pay­111!\tlls. which have so far been al'cepted by 27 rx-prostitutes. are designed to help the women set up small businesses. said Karima Ahmed Sani. thP wil'e of Zarnfara state governor Ahmed Sani. who was elected on a campaign tu nn,1ct Sharia. ur Islamic law. Nigerian news­papers haw reportrd that dozrns of prostitutes have nlready fled the state. fearing prosecu­tion. Sani said the norllwrn state was also trv­ing tn imprnve education for girls. many <Jf whom are not sent to school by thrir families. Although Sani signed two bills on Jan. 27 mak­ing Zamfarn thf' first Nigrrian stat<' to adopt Sharia. some or its aspects were adopted months ago. Women-only taxis have been operaLint; in Zamfara since last Vf)ar and most s('hools r;ow separal.l\ boys and girls. 
Car-free Sundays begin in Rome 
ROME 
Skating. cycling and strolling Romans n'claimed their cobblestone streets from the automobile on the capital's first car-free Sunday. It was perfect weather -sunny and bright -for walking the dog or taking a jog, and thousands did just that, thronging unchar­acteristically quiet streets. The city -normally pungent with fumes and throbbin" to the beat of' thP internal r.ombustion engine"'_ took on a festive air. "It's wonderful. vou can even hear people's footsteps on the cobblestones," said 65­yPar-old Franco Cianci. strolling with his wife near the Pantheon. Rome is one of nearly 150 Italian cities banning cars and non-electric srnoters from their centers one Sundav a month in a campaign to cut air pollution.Public trans­port was still operating, as were taxis. but Honw was a quieter, cleaner version of its usual chaotic self' on Sunday. 
l 950s experiments exposed workers to uranium 
LOUISVILLE 
Some workers at a foderal uranium process­ing plant participated in experiments in the 1 950s that had them breathing the radioactive clement. Thn Courier-Journal reported Sunday. Some ol' the participants at the Paducah Caseous Diffusion Plant volunteered for the trsLs. but some mav not have been informed of the dangers. according to a draft report by the Departnrnnt of' Energy on an investigation of health. safety and 0nvironmental probmms at the western Ktmtucky plant. In one experiment. staff members volunteered to breathe a radioactivn gas to sfie how quickly uranium was r1xcreted in their urine. according to the report. In other l<:SL'>. a senior staffer drank a solution containing uranium, and at least 14 workers testPd tlw cffol'tivnness of respirators against radioactivP dust. gas and smokP. 
¦1zz,,1:;n;w+M

Dow 
AMEx: 

882.97 ]ONES ·5•36 Nasdaq:
-49.64 

4244.14 ~JJ.16 
NYSE: 
626.90 -2.73 
S&P 500: 1424.37

10963.80 
-0.60 
VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY tI!cKER % CHA!IS!!; ~ 
METROCALL INC MCLL ... 0. 
PAGING NETWORK PACE +26.19 INTEL CORP INTC +O. 54 MICROSOFT CORP MSFT +2. 8 3 CISCO SYSTEMS csco +2 .81 MEDIACOM COMM C Mt'CC oneH 

LOCH HARRIS INC  LOCH  +.36. 99  +0.9100  :LOO  
MICI WOJlLDCOM lN  WCOM  -t0 • .(2  +0.8150  U.31  
DOBSON C'OMM COR  D-CEL  +5. D9  +1.1200  23 .12  
N1~l.UCA ORLIN!:!:  AOL  -).15  -2. 0650  57.81  

Composite Volume: 1.277,096,1170 
C~GI PB~:Cf;i 
+5. 3075 11.62 +-0.4338 :z. 09 +-0. 5625 104.7 5 +2. 'HS0 10 6. 56 •l.3075 121.12 UNCH 19·.00 
MEXICO 


Associated Press 

MEXICO CITY 
In a surprisingly smooth conclusion to the 9 1/2­month occupation of Latin America's largest universi­ty, police raided the main campus Sunday and arrest­ed 632 striking students. 
The raid ended an exas­perating ordeal in which Mexican authorities from President Ernesto Zedillo on down seemed unable to wrest the country's most important academic institu­tion from a tiny band of radical students with names like Mosh and The Devil. 
Armed onlv with batons and shields: about 2,400 federal police marched into an all-night meeting of the student strike council at 
6:45 a.m. and rounded up about 430 students. includ­ing the eight top strike lead­ers. 
The strikers didn't resist arrest and there were no injuries. Police then swept through the giant campus, detaining hundreds more strikers. "A democratic society can­not allow the kidnapping of the national university," said Interior Seeretary 
Diodoro Carrasco. 
Rector Juan Ramon de la Fuente said that, where possible, the university would withdraw criminal complaints filed against stu­dents during the strike. In cases where the university lacks the authority to with­draw complaints, Fuente called on prosecutors to offer leniency. He also asked them to drop charges against minors. 
Several hundred strikers were already jailed on vari­ous charges before Sunday's raid. It was unclear how many would be affected by Fuente's dec­laration. 
The 291 day strike at the 260,000 student National Autonomous University of Mexico began in April to protest plans to raise annu­al tuition, which had been just a few cents, to the equivalent of $140. 
The university backed down, but a small core of radical students continued to occupy the campus. They pushed a six-point agenda to reverse recent academic reforms and give students more power within the uni­versity administration. They also used the strike as a stage to denounce the free­market economy and Mexico's political system. 
What little public sympa­thy that may have existed for the strikers gradually faded as a result of their traffic-clogging and some­times violent protests, van­dalism of university build­ings, intolerance of dissent­ing opinions and intransi­gence in negotiations. A ref­erendum last month showed students and teach­ers overwhelmingly sided with the university in the dispute. 
FINLAND 

Halonen becomes first woman president 
Asso~iated Press 

HELSINKI 
Finns elected their first female president on Sunday after a tight runoff race that focused more on personalities than issues. 
With 99.9 percrnt of the vote cuunted, Tarja llalunen had 51.6 percent to former Prime Minister Esko Aho's 48.4 percent. 
"This is a historical moment for Finland," said Prime Minister Paavo Lipponen, a Social Democrat like Halonen. 
"Her personality decided 
this dertion. Ilalonen is a person with her own indi­viduality. Her openness and her genuine character ~ppe,~led across party !mes. 
Halonen, who was for­eign ministPr, takes office March 1 for a six-year term. Lipponcn said he will appoint another Social Democrat to replace her in the foreign ministry. 
"I know that there are still many areas where equality hasn't been achieved, and T hope this result will be encouraging change," Halonen, 56, said on national telnvision as she next to Aho late Sunday. 
Aho also spoke, rnnced­ing defeat. 
"The final sprint was good, but not good enough," he said. 
Finns turned out in high numbers Sunday t'or the election. lining up outsid0 polling stations before they opened. The stations reported 76.8 percent turnout among the 4.2 million person electorate. 
Voter Sinikka Peltomaa said both candidates were equally qualified, but she wanted Finland to have its first female president. 
"I have nothing against men. but we've had so many men before," the 44-year-old secretary said. 
Halonen, a Social Democrat. won the Jan. 16 first-round election with 40 percent support to Aho's 34 percent. but none of the original seven t.:andidates had a majority, forcing Sunday's runoff. 
The candidates sparred in last minute campaign­ing over the European Union's denunciation of the new right-wing Austrian government. 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 7, 2000 
Alumnae 
continued from page l 
unfounded, there was a feeling of another goal in the atmos­phere. 
"We were all here to get a 'Mrs.' degree," Carol said. 
After leaving Saint Mary's after two years to pursue a carPer in interior design, Carol later mn,rried and had four children, who learned of their mother's sexual orientation after their father's death. 
"It was difficult for the youngest one, espocially," she said. "But siuc11 then, they have matured ahout. it." 
Since her collegiate experi­ence, Carol was still struggling to find acceptance among soci­ety. or al the least, an escape from unwelcoming attitudes. She found that escape in the Michigan \Vomen's l\lusic Festival. 
"There are straight women and lesbian women there together, and noborly cares," she said. "But once you leave, and come back to the real world, that different, unwel­coming attitude smacks you in the face. You have to go back to that perception of how soci­ety thinks you should be." 
While Carol does say things have improved, she still copes with friends from school who have been unable to fully come out, she said. 
Because of the silent attitude towards sexuality as a taboo topic, finding women struggling with their own sexual identity was, and still is, difficult. Befriending one woman who was also aware of her identity at the time, to date, they are the only two women who were homosexuals in their class. 
"As far as I know, we are the only two," she said. "There could be more, but we don't know. My one close friend is still very quiet about it. She was afraid to come out then because of job opportunities, and she is still quiet now." 
Vivian 
Vivian Ostroski knew she had to escape because of who she was. 
With vivid memories of Saturday night perfume clouds and makeup frenzies and herds of women climbing onto the shuttle bus to voyage to Notre Dame, Vivan knew from the start that she didn't want to go over "there." 
"I wasn't part of that group, that group who was always going over there," said Vivian, Class of 1985. "I didn't wanl to do that. I didn't talk to the straight women; it was very important not to be a part of that scene." 
Awan~ she had little in com­mon with a vast majority ol' her college classmates, she became a part of a group that actively avoided trekking across the street. Coming out during her juuior year, her sexual orientation was simply another reason not to belong with the group she so strongly opposed. 
"Being queer -il just wasn't something you said," Vivian said. "I was l'rom a working class family. / didn't have the right clothes, shoes or sexual orientation." 
So each weekend. Vivian packed her bags, left her dorm, and climbed on her train to freedom. Visiting a friend who attended school in Chicago, she became part of a colorful community where she felt alive. 
"I would go into this commu­nity where there were people who were queer, people who talk about heterosexual sex," ality support group). the women did have sugges­were flamboyant, there were she said. "The few lesbian stu­"I would hear discussion tions to improve the climate at people of color and people who dents that were here used to around me, and I kept thinking Saint Mary's. took up space," she said. lovP. it when parietals would that sooner or later, someone "I want a space for lesbians "People had this thing called come around, because that was going to ask me whal I to meet at Saint Mary's that is gay pride that I didn't know would end it for us," she said. thought," she said. "I was try­safe," Vivian said, who current­existed until I saw it." An active member in Board ing so hard to be closeted." ly works at the University of 
She kept her journeys secret, of Governance and Notre Dame That option became less and Massachusetts in the provost's partly because she wanted Encounter retreats during col­less a possibility as Kelly real­office. "I want a speaker's them for herself. lege, Jen found her outlet in ized she needed support. bureau of people who are will­
"I owned this place,·· she community service, which led "When I was not out, it was ing to come out and tell their sairl. "lf I her to a year or impossible to !ind support," she stories. I want someone in the Lold any­service vvith said. "That's still the case f'or mental health departments, one. lhen I "ft isn't just aboul sexual Holy Cross anyone who is closeted. When I administration, and security wouldn't Associates in became a part of that group, that has a clue. l want a class
orientation -it's 
own it San Francisco my life took on a whole new in queer culture, so that gay
about racism and 
anvmore. following grad­dimension." and lesbian issues are at the 
T .h c y classism, too." uation. During After GLND had applied for heart of the experience here. ow n e d that year, she official club status at Notre "l want gay and lesbia11 lan­I S a i n t W O U I d Dame and had been denied, the guage in th() liturgies," slrn
Vivian Ostroski 
Mary's]. encountnr her subject of a gay/lesbian support said. "I want there to be safe
Class of 1985
This place sexuality not group at Saint Mary's was zones on campus where stu­was mine." onlv with her brought to the forefront, plac­dents know they can go and be 
B u t fam"ily, but with ing the Alliance at a crucial safe. I want a plan for dealing climbing on the train, that herself as well. transition point. with gay violence before it hap­community could only live in "One of tlrn first things that I The Alliance applied for pens. I want the part of tho her memory until her nexl did when I got out lo San group status at Saint Mary's in mission statement that deals visit. Francisco was join a lesbian l 998 but was denied by presi­with diversity to be at the bot­
"It was like as soon as 1 softball team," she said. When dent Marilou Eldred. tom of the college's stationery smelled the ethanol in thn air, her mother came out to visit However, dialogue was still so it says that everyone is wel­that s1rn~ll was replacing what and saw her short haircut at open and awarrme.ss was circu­come." Chicago had been," she said. "l one ul' the games, she immedi­lating on campus, Kelly said. Many women also expressed didn't feel sad or angry, it was ately expressed concern fur her However. that wasn't always the need to reach out to lesbian just thf' way it was." daughter. at an advantage. alumnae. 
"I hadn't come out to my "I was in one of my classes, ''I'd like to see articles in the 

family at that point," ,JHn said. and I overheard one of the girls Courier about gay a.nd leshian
Jen 
"My mom came up to me and in the class say I was one of issues, to reach out to women
Jen Moore's experience or 
said. 'Doesn't ii ever bother 'the couple,"' Kelly said, who of my generation who nend tosexuality on campus was pri­you that people think that ha.d heen seeing another stu­be reached," Carol said. 
marily one of' opposition to her­you're gay'?'" dent at the time. ''On one hand The push for any change,self, Still in the process of dis­Her reply embodied the spirit l was laughing, and on the however. needs to come fromcovering herself. Jen admitted 
that Jen had come to love other I was wishing I could just students.
that she spent much of her 
about the San Francisco area. enjoy college, and not just be a "As a student you can feeltime at Saint Mary's in denial. 
"Mom, in the Bay area, peo­representative of a group. One very powerless and unimpor­"I was in the process of com­ple don't assume anything," day I wasn't even out yet, and tant," Kelly said. 

ing out to myself, and I was she said. the next I was being inter­"But the initiative has to restvery much in denial," said Jen. 
viewed by The Observer." with students. If these are

Class of '94. "Academically, 
things you want, you have to go

that hurt my abilities a lot Kelly 
Moving beyond Saint Mary's out and get them. This is a stu­junior and senior year." Kelly Harrison, Class of '98, taught all four women that the dent issue -you can changeBut while she knew that had suddenly found herself in attitudes they have encoun­the environment tremendous­avenues such as GALA the center of a tailspin that she tered against their sexual ori­ly."

ND/SMC, OUTreachND and wasn't prepared to enter and entation are not isolated specif­The women agreed that theyGLND/SMC were available to at first, wasn't sure she wanted ically to campus. The problem, wanted to graduate women
help her, she did not seek to. 
they said, is something that is who were educated about sex­

resources from those groups, Entering college unsure of 
spread across society. ual orientation and diversitypartly because of that denial. her sexual identity and self­

"There's been a lot of issues.

"Many people found places at classifying herself as homopho­progress," Kelly said. "We still "I want women who leaveGLND/SMC that were very bic during her early years of have a lot to work on as a soci­this college to be informedsafe," she said. "I just didn't go college, Kelly described her 
ety. There's a heterosexual about sexual orientation,"

to those groups." process of coming out as one assumption where you meet Vivian said. "It isn't just aboutHer difficulty in linding her­that was terrifying. Afraid to someone and automatically sexual orientation -it's aboutself was further aggravated by speak about who she was or assume they're straight. That racism and classism, too. Idiscussions about heterosexual what she felt, she did not find can cause a lot of hurtful situa­thought being gay was aboutsex which was predominant on support until her sophomore tions," she said. sex. It wasn't until I left herecampus. year when she sought out the But starting changes can that I realized it was about cul­"There was definitely a lot or newly formed Alliance {a sexu­start at the campus level, and ture." 
r•----------------------------, 

Internet banking Full service, on-line banking designed especially for college students! 
Checking account Whether you're on a MAC or a PC, our easy-to­Overdraft protection use interface makes banking· on the Internet a snap. Visit us online at www.bankoncampus.com to find out how you can benefit from this
ATM /..Debit card 
innovative.account 
Questions? Call us af258-31S-O, or e-mail us at BankOncampus@lst source.com. 
•source.
liiiBank 
Member FDIC 


~ ­
._,---~~ 
• I I • ~ .. ' 
.. 

Monday, February 7, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
AIDerican Indians struggle to find decent housing 
Indian Housing Council esti­program," he said. "They sec a ployed. if there was a place to buy, but
Associated l'ress 
mates U.S. reservations need house more as a giveaway." The single mother's only there's not," he said. 200,000 hous('S to alleviate Tradition can also prove a sources of income are rhild Indian reservations are gen­
w1:-:now HOCK. Ariz. 
overcrowding and replace major obstacle to modern support and the odd auto­erally made up of trust land
Wanda Segina and hor !'our 
inadequate dwellings. housing, Jones said. repair job, making it almost controlled by the federal gov­
young children moved to the 
Morn than half of the Navajo Navajos have historically impossible for her to raise the ernment or family allotments,
capital of tlrn nation's largest 
Hcscrvation's 56,372 homes lived far apart, with the rugged $6,000 it would cost to connect which can have dozens or evenAmcri<'.an Indian nation and lack complete plumbing and a northern Arizona hills separat­her to the closest power line hundreds of owners. Such
promptly made one horne 
large perccntagt\ still use wood ing th<eir and th<' $8,000 allotments create so much redimµrornment. 
as the primary heating source, corn crops it would cost tape and uncertainty for lend­Thny dug an outhous<'. 
according to 1990 census fig­and sheep for a water ing institutions that conven­
Tlw family has no electricity, "It's a living hell. It's a 
ures. from their connection. tional mortgages are rarely
no running water and nu 
"The country is moving so neighbors. disaster for me as So instead, granted.
sewer. They cook over an opPn ,,
rapidly, we're losing the T h e i r a mom. her children lfotwcen 1992 and 1996, just
lirn and batlrn in water hauled 
chance to catch up," said hogans, Maxine, 90 conventional loans were
in by rl'lat.ives. And though the 
Navajo romm unity develop­r o u n d Keevin. Marita made in Indian country, and
trailer the l'amily shares has 
Wanda Segina

ment director Benjamin Jones. dwellings and Thurman half of those came from a trib­thrne hedrooms. they slnnp in 
What keeps many American built from Navajo mother do their home­ally owned bank, saidorrn. huddling togethor in the 
Indians from being able to buy native work by the Christopher Boesen, executivecold wintt•r nights. 
01· live in adequate homes is a trees, were daylight that director of the National"It's a living lwll. It's a disas­
head-spinning host of prob­constructed seeps through American Indian !lousing
lt> r for mP as a mom." said 
lems: high unemployment. l'Pw bv individ-the living room Council in Washington.
Sngina, whos11 children attend 
willing lenders, almost no pri­ual families. window or by a Coleman Reservations sorely lack pri­till' local P!ementarv school. 
vate land and bureaucratic red "The way they saw their lantern at night. They drink vate financing because manySegina's living co.nditions are 
tape. homes was spiritual, more of a canned milk and eat canned lenders don't see reservations
shared by thousands more on 
Even basic knowledge about cathedral. not property," Jones meat. as viable home loan markets,
establishing good credit and said. liuilding a home, he said, Even Navajos with steady he said, forcing many IndiansHes<ervation, which sprawls applying for mortgages can trip was a measure of manhood. jobs face obstacles to home to live in substandard housing.
across portions of" Arizona. 
up many would-be buyers. said For Navajos like Segina, for ownership. "This is the land America hasNPw Mr.xir.n and Utah. and Ernest Guatson, director of the whom traditional dwellings are Jones holds a position in forgotten," said Scott Bray,
throughout America's Indian Navajo Housing Service less important. money is an Navajo government roughly who works with the Navajo
rnservations, whern housing is 
Department. insurmountable obstacle. equivalent to a Cabinet post, community development divi­in desperately shorl supply and "The (federal) housing pro­Like Segina. roughly half of yet he lives in government sion but is not a tribal member.
ortnn substandard. 
Tim National Amfirir.an gram is more of a subsidy pro­the Navajo Reservation's housing he calls a "stall." "America has forgotten about gram than a home ownership 151,105 residents are unem-"I'd be happy to buy a place these people." 

We didn't become Fortune$ magazine's America's Most Admired Company* by accepting the status quo. 
PleaseJoin Us

We got there by hiring and training graduates with the confidence and courage to think in innovative and 
at GE Night

revolutionary ways. No other corporation can match the diversity 
February 7th 

of opportunities at GE. Because we have small company 
7:00-9:00 pm

attitudes with large company strengths, we set no limits, no boundaries. You can move from industry to industry, 
Center for Continuing 

discipline to discipline, and never leave GE. 
Education -Room 112 

We're a leader in every business we compete in, 
(StoJ, by lo discuss career opportunities wilh GE &ps.

and we're looking for leaders like Alphie who will take us 
RefreshmmLs will be served· Bringyuur resume)

even further. Start your career by visiting our website now. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Learn about us at ;;;;.·.w, ·.:;@(~%!. t \ . 
www.gecaree•¦.Jiam ·, 
·--::--:-·:·.-:{' 

We bring good things to life. 

GE Aircran Engines• GE Appliances• GE Capital Services• GE Corporate Research and Development• GE Industrial Systems GE Information Services· GE Lighting· GE Medical Systems• GE Plastics• GE Power Systems-GE Supply-GETransportation Systems• NBC *3/1/99 

Your 
children 
are a real 
credit 
to you.
Ssoo each 
They're your pride and joy. What's more, they can save you up to S500 each, subtracted right off your federal income tax. The Child Tax Credit is an · important benefit of the Taxpayer Relief Act. 
Who q11alifies? Eachdependent child or descendant, stepchild or foster child under I 7 as of l 2 /31 /99. The child must be a 
U.S. citizen or resident. 
Credit is reduced when your modified Adjusted Gross Income exceeds certain limits. Special rules apply for three or more children, 
Whv wait for a refund? You can take home more monev 
J 
every payday, if you ask your employer to withhold less. (Be careful to withhold enough to avoid a penalty.) 
See vour I 999 tax booklet for full details. Or check the IRS Web site: www.irs.gov 
page 8 

The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, February 7, 2000 
JORDAN 

King Abdullah speeds up reforms 

Associated. Press 
AMMJ'.\.1'1 
King Abdullah II had a little advice for ministers and busi­ness leaders disagreeing over how tu bring about educational reforms in his country. 
"Roll up your sleeves and get down to work," the 38-year-old king roared as he presided over a meeting on upgrading the school system. "Unless we move fast on this track within a year or two, we risk losing the oppor­tunitv." 
Since Abdullah became the surprise choice to succeed his father. King Hussein, a year ago, the energetic and often impa­tient new leader's preoccupation has been speeding up reforms in his destitute country. 
Hussein. who died last Feb. 7. was credited with transforming a land of nomadic Bedouins into a largely cosmopolitan nation that exports doctors and engi­neers to the Arab world. 
Clrnllenges at least as great fo.ce his son. 
Jordan is saddled with foreign debt of $7 billion and unemploy­ment that officially stands at 14 percent but is said to be nearly twice that. About 20 percent of its 4.8 million people live in poverty. Corruption is rampant, and bureaucracy hampers for­eign and local investment. The 1994 peace treaty with Israel has brought little dividends, and the West and oil-rich Persian Gulf Arab states have been hesi­tant to help. 

Abdullah's hands-on approach has earned him the nickname "Jordan's chief executive offi­cer," and his calls for greater public freedoms, civil rights, social justice and equality have raised blood pressures in a gov­ernment and parliament domi­nated by conservative politi­cians. 
The new king also has staged raids on state institutions to inspect the services citizens 
receive. He per­son a 11 y fired two doctors in charge of the public al-Bashir Hospital t h r e e months ago when t b e y ignored h s instruc­tions to 
fix two elevators. Abdullah sometimes posed as an old man, a television reporter or a taxi driver -a ploy that allowed him to freely listen to complaints from his countrymen. 
"After my first several visits, it was like Elvis," a chortling Abdullah told foreign media cor­respondents recently. "There were sightings all over the coun­try, but what it did too, it created fear in the civil service." 
"They started treating every­body as a king because they 
GERMANY 
Nine passengers die in train derailment 

didn't know whether the next guy standing in line was the (real) king," he said. "Now peo­ple are on their toes." 
Such moves have sent Abdullah's popularity soaring among younger Jordanians, who had revered Hussein for his lib­eral outlook but see in the new king a determination to make changes that would improve their lives. 
"King Hussein was the father 

"Roll up your sleeZJes and get down tu work. Unless we move fast on this track within a year or two, we risk losing the opportunity. " 
Abdullah II King of Jordan 
of all Jordanians, but King Abdullah is the brother of the Jordanians," said 39-year-old Sarner Abed al­liadi, a civil engi­neer. 
Until his father's deathbed decision, Abdullah was a tank company commander with little experience in affairs of state. He was consid­

ered a long shot to assume the Hashemite Throne -one of the Middle East's key political posts -since his uncle, Prince ­Hassan, had been crown prince since 1965. But Hussein deposed Hassan just days before he died. 
Abdullah was labeled a politi­cal novice, but has shown him­self capable of setting his own agenda. 
He has forged crucial strategic alliances to ensure the survival of a country that had been ostra­cized by the Arabs. 
Associated Press 
BRUEHL 
An overnight express train tilled with Alpine ski vacation­ers was racing far over the posted speed limit when it derailed Sunday south of Cologne, killing at least nine passengers and injuring almost 100, authorities said. 
The sleeper train heading from Amsterdam to Basel. Switzerland, derailed shortly after midnight at a switch, said German railways spokesman Manfred Ziegerath. Several cars were <'rushed. 
Hescue workers using heavy equipment and search dogs broke open mangled blue coaches at the debris-strewn site throughout the day. Medics had to amputate limbs to free several injured people. 
More bodies might be buried under wrecked coach­es that were still being cleared late Sunday, lead police investigator Winrich Granitzka said. Sixteen Germans, four Americans and two Dutch passengers were unacco·unted for, he said. adding that they may have left the scene on their own. 
Authorities were unable to immediately identify the dead or even determine their nationalities because their 
bodies were so badly mutilat­
ed. Granitzka said 52 passen­
gers suffered serious injuries 
and 44 others had minor 
injuries. 
Granitzka said the nine-car 
Amsterdam-Basel train, car­
rying about 300 people from 
as far away as Mexico and 
Japan, was traveling 76 mph 
in a 25 mph zone when it hit 
the switch and derailed. 
The train left Amsterdam at 8 p.m. Saturday and had barely pulled out of Cologne heading south when it derailed. Many of the travel­ers were on their way to ski vacations in the Alps, officials said. 
As the train left the tracks, one car flipped on its side and another was crushed against a steel post. The engine hur­tled down an embankment along with several of the front cars and hit a house, ripping off the balcony before coming to rest just inside the lhing room, police said. The couple who lived there was not hurt. 
George Kellermann, a German radio reporter who happened to be aboard, said the train had slowed down but was speeding up again when it crashed. He said he and his wife were thrown out of their compartment and back in again as the train lurched off the tracks. 

Please, come back to me. • • •Visit Jesus 1n Eucharistic Adoration. Monday 11 :30 p.m. to Tuesday 10:0-0pm in Fisher Hall Friday 12:00pm-5:00pm, Lady Chapel, Basilica Eucharistic Adoration is sponsored by Campus Min~stry. "> --,_:~;~;-1_;,.... --·>.·--0 -,~~..:.l,,;._..:..C;.l,..:.~ -~ -~:->·...:.. ::; ,.,..:.1-" ~-+­._l_,!._ for more information or to sign up i"or.,.a_~pe-~nent ha:Lf-hour or hour slot.  


--_
f' ...
' • .,.....
f I ..,..,. ____ _____________ ..
......,...,.., ,....,., 
Monday, February 7, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 

AUSTRIA 
Holocaust compensation approved 
He told his int.orvicwers Associared Pre,s that tho previous government led by Austria's Social VIENNA f>emonats had not really 
Bight-wing populist Joerg dealt with the Nazi past, Ilaider said Sunday the new including issues like the com­Austrian government in pensation of forced laborers. 
which his party shares powor ric said the new government will take appropriate mea­would seek to redress their sLPres to compensate grinvancos and those of llolocaust victims. llolocaust victims. In a tPIPvisPu interview, ""Where WP. have inflicted llaidPr also promised to mod­great injustice on our Jewish cral<' his tough Lalk und fellow citizens or wiped out rtlt'rain from their fami­nwddling in lies, we 
th11 coalition "We hope that other must take 
C1tbinl'l. 111• countries follow our pertinent will not hold a m e a ­
example."

Cabinet post. surf's," he 
llaider's said. comments Natan Sharansky IJaidur came two days w n
Israeli interior minister o 
aft11r tlw 1uiw govPrnment ­made up of his f'ar-right Fnwdum Party and the cen­tPr-right Austrian People's Party -was sworn in by a stone-faced Pn•sident Thomas KIPsti!. The coalition came togntlrnr despite a wave of protPsts and moves by the European Union and other nations to isolate Austria diplomatically. 
llaider's remarks Sundav were relatively conciliatory comparPd to tlrn verbal salvos he has fired recently against foreign IPaders. 
interna­t ion a I nolorietv for slate0 
-

ments praising Adolf Hitler's "orderly employment'' poli­cies and lauding veterans of the Waff'en SS as "decent people of good character" ­comments for which he has since apologized. The rise to power of his party has polar­ized a sodety with dark 
memories of defeats in two world wars. 
Referring to bis past vitri• olir attacks on other Austrian leaders, Haider said his party would refrain from "opposi­
OttCampw• )lffflor l'armt Wulcettb Spc:ml Y:i\,n,Af1111·ll. 2000 
Come early; stay late. same prtce, 
Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms available for your parents. Weekend cost is $60.00 per parent. Whether you stay 
Two, thfee, or four ni\j'lts. Rooms are available Thursday Ulrough Sunday. 
For reservations, call 219-631-7512. 
tionaJ reflexes and unneces­sary sharpness ... and prove that, factually, we can reason verv well." 
Elsewhere Sunday, Israeli Interior Minister Natan Sharansky announced that Haider is banned from enter­ing Israel. 
The ban is the latest formal Israeli protest against the Freedom Party's inclusion in government. Israel recalled its ambassador from Vienna as soon as the Austrian coali­tion was approved. 
"It is a very important sym­bolic act to know that he is not desired in our country. We hope that other countries follow our example," Sharansky said. 
Ile said Haider has expressed an interest in visit­ing Israel, and that his party tried unsuccessfully to hire a local public relations firm to spruce up his image there. 
The Freedom Party's inclu­sion in government has drawn public protests both inside and outside Austria. On Sunday, about 300 demonstrators gathered out­side the Austrian embassy in Paris, shouting "Haider, fas­cist, collaborator." And on Saturday night, anti-Haider demonstrators scuf'fled with police in downtown Vienna for a second night, despite appeals for calm from Klestil. 
HOMES FOR RENT 

-Domus Properties has two, five, and seven bedroom houses available -Student neighborhoods close to 
campus -Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 2000/2001 school year BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY 3 HOUSES LEFT 
. Contact Kramer (219)274-1501 or (219)234-2436 or (219)674-2572 
NORTHERN IRELAND 
Suspected IRA dissidents bomb hotel 
take back the powers it
Associated Press transferred in December to 
the province's new
BELFAST Suspected Irish Republican Protestant-Catholic coalition Cabinet in Belfast.
Army dissidents bombed a rural hotel Sunday -That transfer of power was
an 
attack that caused no report­a key part of the 1998 Good ed injuries hut gave Friday peace accord. It Northern Ireland a bitter ended 27 years of direct rule reminder of the days the of the province from London. 
province is struggling to Rendering the four-party leave behind. coalition powerless would It was the 
decrease first such 
the risk
'This is the moment that its
attack here since 1998. when we simply need to m a j o r A caller Protestant
know." 
claiming to party, the be from the 
Ulster Continuity Tony Blair Unionists, IRA, a small British prime minister would col­
dissident g r o u p opposed to the IRA's 1997 truce, told the 
BBC in Belfast that bombs bad been left at two hotels in rural County Fermanagh. 
Police evacuated both hotels shortly before a bomb, apparently inside a car, went off at the rear of Mahon's Hotel in the village of Irvinestown. Police said they couldn't find any suspicious devices at the other threat­ened hotel. 
"There will always be peo­ple who try to undermine the peace process," a spokesman for Prime Minister Tony Blair's Downing Street office said in London. "We will do what we can to make sure they do not succeed." 
Earlier Sunday, Protestants and Catholics prayed for the salvation of Northern Ireland's peace process ­and for an unprecedented leap of faith from the JRA. 
The lRA's refusal to say whether it will disarm has left the province's new gov­ernment teetering on the brink of collapse. 
"Even if until this moment you never intended to decommission (weapons). it is possible for you to change," the leader of the Methodist Church in Ireland, Kenneth Wilson, said in an appeal to the IRA. "ft is pos­sible for you to make a mag­nanimous gesture -not to march in time to the British tune or the (Protestant) unionist tune but, if I may say, to God's tune." 
British Prime Minister Tony Blair emphasized Sunday that he wants to gain a disarmament commitment from the IRA this week. Otherwise, Britain intends to 

lapse the 
Cabinet 
outright by resigning. 
In November, the Ulster Unionists accepted the IRA­linked Sinn Fein party as Cabinet colleagues on condi­tion thal IRA disarmament follow. But the province's disarmament commission reported Jan. 31 that its two months of secret discussions with IRA figures had pro­duced no concrete gains. 
On Saturday, IRA comman­ders said British and Ulster Unionist pressure wouldn't spur them to disarm -but hinted they might begin dis­arming someday, saying for the first time that "the issue of arms needs to be dealt with in an acceptable way." 
Sinn Fein said the IRA's statement represented a sig­nificant change in policy. But Blair said it didn't answer the question of whether the IRA will disarm. 
"This is the moment when we simply need to know," Blair told a conference of his governing Labor Party in Blackpool, northwest England. "Because this issue of decommissioning is not going to change, it's not going to disappear, it's not going to alter in its essen­tials. It's just got to be con­fronted and resolved now." 
Responding to Sinn Fein complaints that his govern­ment's blunt appeals would only make the fRA dig in its heels, Blair said: 'Tm not speaking in anger. I'm not standing here as the British prime minister making demands. I can't make any­one do this. I can only say that now is when we need to know whether it's going to happen, or it's not." 
.,,,,,..,...
z 

VIEWPOINT 
cm 
wz ·­

page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Somh Dir11ng Hall. Notre Uame, IN 46556 
.EUITOR IN CHIU Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR  81JSINE~S MANACER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogcro  
AssT, MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Petellc  

NlWS EDITOR: Tim Logan V1rWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen GJughcn SPORTS EDITOR: flrian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas S.'..1N1 MAR¥'S EDITOR: Norecn Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
AllVERTISING MANAGFR: !lrya11 Lull 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bree Hudat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers. WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushrn 
CONI'ROLLFR: Timothy Line GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GtNERAL INFO.............. 63 l -7471 FAX........... ..... . ..................................... 631-6927 ADVERTISING ..................................... 63 l -6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmrnR/Assr. ME. ................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.... ..............................631-53[3 NEWS............ ..............................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT ... .............................. 631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SrORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.spons. l@nd.edu SCENE............. ·••······ ................................... 631-4 540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S ...........................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO....................................................•.•631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-m-the 
movies/music fur 

weekly student reviews 
n1inute forecasts 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 

cial cimpus coverage 
archives to search for 

ahour The Ob.<erver 
articles published after 

to meet rhe editors and 
staff
August 1999 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the studenrs of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edimrial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advenisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant .'v1anaging Editor and depanmenr editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of rhe authors and nor necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available co all reacfrrs. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and 1mm include conract information. 
Qumion, regarding Observer policies should be dirm­ed to Editor in ChiefMichel!e Krnpa. 
+r 
o~stRVER Monday, February 7, 2000 


Minorities not represented on TV 
MORGANTOWN, W.Va. -Ever since the networks announced their fall lineups last year, the Big Four have been scrambling to deal with accusations of racial bias in their pro­gramming. 
The NAACP and Staff Editorial other minority rights organiza­tions felt that the The Dailyfall season would 
Athenaeum

be a virtual "white-wash," almost completely void of blacks, Hispanics or other eth­nicities beyond the traditional white European. 
While the NAACP cited shows like "Friends," "Drew Carey" and the new drama "Once and Again" for their lack of color, networks threw out fee­ble excuses and lame attempts to prove their devotion to equality in programming -i.e. NBC's attempt to pass off "West Wing's" Martin Sheen as a Hispanic-American. Now that all the backpedaling is over and the fall season has already seen its winners and losers come to the forefront, we can take the time to examine whether all the complaining, threatened boy­cotts and network cow-towing really made a difference at all, 
Here is the black-and-white truth about television: It is a for-profit ven­ture. FOX, CBS and all the others can claim they want to put forth quality programs which will both inspire and entertain people of all backgrounds, but if "quality inspiration" doesn't bring down the needed Nielsons, then it's time to replace quality with to change things next year, scrapped the lineups or inserted token minorities into already-created series. Many went with the inserted-character concept. "Wasteland," a short-lived, 20-some­thing drama, gained a black male. Why was his character included? To give the show a sense of reality -or to appease the NAACP? 
These token blacks and Hispanics are as much of an insult as the exclu­sion of minorities altogether. Often they are only peripheral characters whose entire purpose is defined by their race. If you add someone to a 
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT 
r-~------~~--~----~----~--~-------Er:~~=::~::::::::::::'.::=:::=:::'.::::::--1 ,---.,...-:._-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-__-:._-_-_-_-______ 
I NEED TO SEE A ~ 5UBMIT A BUSINE.55 i 
HEY, BRO, WE. l3 SITE THAT'S ; CASE TO THE WEB i 
WHERE'S YOUR BLOCKED BY OUR PRODUCTIVITY
I i 
SHELL? THIS I.5. GROUP. i AND SECURITY ~ 

AIN'T CASUAL

,: !

"World's Scariest Moments on Who Wants to Be a Millionaire," hosted by Jerry Springer and Heather Locklear. 'Cause if we learned anything last fall, it's that money and cute blondes bring in the viewers. So when networks take a look at their viewing audience and notice that a significant portion of them happen to be middle-to-lower class whites aged 18-45, they tend to go after shows these uber-viewers will enjoy. 
Is it right? Depends on your vision for television. Are the airwaves there for betterment or profit? If you own series just for their skin color, they have, in essence, become a one-line joke. 
The solution? Color-blind casting, for one. Instead of writing shows where parts are defined from the get­go by racial status, create characters who are people, and then see who best fits the part. 
(Obviously if you are writing a sit­com about four Jewish friends in New York, you might have to be a little more specific in your casting, but we 'II allow that.) 
If shows are going 
to be judged on their 
stock in ABC, you'll color make-up or
Minorities deserve 
probably go with the forced to add charac­
proper recognition in 
latter. ters just to attain a 
When the problems next year's lineup. They perfect ratio, quality arose last summer, just shouldn't have to will suffer. And given networks had a few the sad state of tele­
settle for second-rate 
options. They could vision today, that's have ignored the out­add-ons and stereotypes something we 
cry, made promises as their representation. couldn't have. 
Minorities deserve proper recognition in next year's lineup. They just shouldn't 
have to settle for second-rate add-ons and stereotypes as their representa­tion. 
This staff editorial first appeared in The Daily Athenaeum at West Virginia University. It is reprinted here courtesy ofthe U-Wire. 
The views expressed in this edilori· al are tho.c;p of the staffof The Daily Athenaeum and not necessarily those of The Observer, 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Where there is money. there is fighting." 
Marian Anderson African-American vocalist 


VIEWPOINT 
Monday, February 7, 2000 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Sidewalk cleaning is unsatisfactory 

I have ber.n attending this UniV£-lrsity now for two years and have loved almost every second ol' it. I truly appreciate the lengths to which the University goes to beautify the campus. The ability to pick up every leaf on campus during a football game weekend not only makes thn campus aes­thetically pleasing but mind­boggling. 
For this, I thank you. But now for the problem I've cnr.ountered, and I would guess others have also. 
I just spent 25 minutes try­ing to get my car out of D­2000. If I remember correctly it has been at least a week sincn the last snowfall, which was not very hard. I know it might bn a chore to plow the lot with all the cars in it. but some effort would be nice. D­2000 has not been touched onre since the initial snowfall of the season, and just because it has not snowed does not mean that snow has disappeared. There are now new parking spots being cre­ated and this has created fur­ther problems, especially for those who don't know how to drive in this weather. 
I went to a junior college for two years before transferring into this University. There I spent $2,000 per year for my education. 
However, there was always a clean parking lot along with clean sidewalks. The effort given to the sidewalks is extremely unsatisfactorf. The big sweep machine that they use to brush the sidewalks is ridiculous. Get some gosh­darn snow plows out and clear the sidewalks and park­ing lots. I think we can dip into the small bag of money that this University has and clean this place up during the winter. It is not like this is the first snow in the University's history. So do something about it, please. 
Eric Amato 
Senior 
St. Edward's Hall 
February 2, 2000 

Got an opinion to share? Speak up! 
Viewpoint. I @nd.edu 
L_ 
O
THE 
BSERVER page 11 

ND's efforts for Sweatshop Task Force not yet complete 
We should commend the University for the first university sweatshop code and (;a]Jing for full disclosure. We have read much about the administration-appointed Sweatshop Task Force. They ponder child labor, living wage, safe and healthy working conditions, discrimination against women and immigrants. etc. We know of membership in fair Labor Association (FLA), hiring of Pricf'waterhouseCoopors to monitor adherence of contractors to university codes, cooperation with local religious groups, presence of inept or corrupt local unions and Notre·Dame's enlistment of its alumni and alumnae in several foreign countries. 
Professional accounting firms have their own agendas and sometimes conflicts of interest. Experience has proven that workers viAw similar "monitors" as beholden to the interests of those who hire them rather than the workers' interest. Workers usually shy away from rendering frank accounts of con­ditions in their sweatshops. Contractors can "spruce up" their shops in 48 hours. To get caught in such a scam would be morally repre­hensible for 
l\iotre Dame or any "good con­science" man­ufacturer or retailer. 
The best insurance against under­mining codes is 
the presence of reliable local religious, union and activist \ groups. They \ "know the terri­tory" -actual working condi-\ 
tions and terms of \ employment of their people, as well as the "ins and outs" of local laws. 
1 

Such knowledge is \----­essential because their \ people trust their lead­ers' dedication and sin­cerity. No "sell out" is \ expected. based on past ~ experience! 
However, what to do when some religious communities \ or local unions have proven \ themselves wedded to the \, exploitative contractors and cor­rupt governments? Enter the coali­tion Notre Dame should and can lead with the LI.S. Catholic Conference. the AFL­CIO. other religious organizations and activist groups. All lhese institulions have extensive con­tacts with domestic and international groups interested ill economic justice for workers. Such a coalition is a natural for Notre Dame, commit­ted to Catholic Social Teaching -an essential 
· part of its Catholic character. The U.S. Catholic Conference's 1999 Labor Day Statement remind­ed Catholics, "t\11 people have the right to eco­nomic initiative, to pmduriive work, to just wages and bennuts, to decent working condi­tioHs, as well as to organize and join unions or othe.r associations." Hepeatedly the Catholic President of the AFL-CIO and Iona College grad­uate, John Sweeney, has extolled the Catholic Social Teaching in his efforts to re-invigorate the labor movement to its early commitment to social justice. 
s,weral years ago, a worldwide conference was held i.n the Vatican for directors of national social justice offices~ analogous to the U.S. 
Catholic Confcrnnco. The consensus of these well informed people was that, given the control of so many govern­
ments by exploitative multination­als, the only way to monitor and curb abuses is by implementa­
tion of a strong coalition of national interfaith bodies, national union confedera­\ tions, the Llnited Nations International Labor \ Organization in Geneva \ and national activist groups. Many of these reli­gious, union and activist groups already have ties to each other and 
investigate and decry abuses of workers' rights. 
In some areas of the world, local and missionary personnel are 
already cooper­ating with local unions and activist groups 
to improve the conditions for workers. However, they need more financial. moral and political assis­tance from out­side groups. Rallying more of that assis­
tance could usher in better improvement and implemen­
tation of more ; than sweatshop
1; 
codes. Notre Dame's recent decision to reach 
out to local reli­
. gious and human rights groups is a ! step in the correct 
direction. However, \l / more ~omprehensive ~ : strategies on an 
/ international scale are necessary. Notre Dame's leader­
ship, in conjunction with ') the U.S. Catholic , , ,., Conference. the AFL-UO
~~"7"'/ and activist groups. would be / a necessary additional strategy , for improvement and implemen­tation of sweatshop codes. Such a 
strategy would prove, over time, / more !'ffective and Jess expensive than Nolre Dame's present strategy. Such a 
strategy would stir other universi.ties to "get on board." give witness to Notre Dame's Catholic character in every sense of that much-bandied­about adjective and respond to Pope John Paul Irs call for "solidarity" on behalf of worldwide workers. 
Failing to respond to such a (;hallcnge, Notre Dame should at least join with other universities and the United Students Against Swoatshops to complete its objectives. 
Rev. Patrick J. Sullivan , CSC Sociology Deparunenc and Higgins Labor Research Cent~r November 17. 1999 

-----------------------·-----· 

VIDEO GAME REVIEWS 
'Vigilante 8: Second Offense' ignites the screen 
By GFOH HEIPLE 
Scene Writer 
ff you're looking lll enjoy a relaxing Sunday drive, go visit Amish country. 
Activision promises and delivers carnage. mayhem and several motor vehicle code violations in their much-antici­pated sequel to thP popular vehicular combat game, "Vigilante 8." "Vigilante 8: Second Offense" scorches "Vigilante 8: the PlayStation world by adding Second Offense" more multi-player options, vehicle enhancements. spe­cial attack moves and explosive real­ism to an al ready out of' hve shamrocks 

established hit. It is packed with a host Maker: Activision 
of improved fea­tures. yet continues to highlight the heated gang rivalry between the "Vigilantes" and the "Coyotes." This confrontation. made popular in the original V8, really ignites the spark plugs in "Second Offense." 
Most of the characters are familiar faces. However. 10 new personalities, as well as the mysterious Drifter Gang, are introduced in the game. Each character drives a dis­tinct vehicle. The character's personality is matched to a specific type of vehicle to offer the best combination of muscle and machine. A player has the opportunity to con­trol one of 18 new fully loaded. '?Os vehicles -from a moon vehicle to a garbage truck to a mass transit bus, or choose from a selection of various other vintage or special­ty vehicles. The background plot shifts into four-wheel drive as Lord Clyde, ex-Vigilante turned OMAR leader. viciously continues to inflict the torment of his Coyotes upon the United States. This time, he has developed a time machine that can transport him and his rogue warriors back to the 1970s in order to wreak vehicular havoc on America's gas crisis. Convoy and his new wife, Houston, combine to lead the Vigilantes against the Coyotes to secure the roadways of America and prove that. in fact, they are the most diesel troop. 
The original V8 featured a myriad of playing options (both one and two player); "Second Offense" develops upon that solid foundation yet adds some new playing perspectives. The Quest Mode, made popular by the "First 0ffensr," consists of eight levels for (~ach char­acter. To win each level, one must complete the mission oqjectives and destroy all enemy vehicfrs. Throughout this mode, pottJntial reckless drivers have the ability to unlock codes for new characters. For example, Convoy's character and vehicle are not avail­able to a player who sits down to play "Second Offense" straight out of the case. However. through the mastery of some levels in the Quest Mode, one can gain access to the use of Convoy and his super-charged machine. 
In the Arcade l\lode, one selects an arena (there are 12 possibilities), a vehicle and oppo­nents. Arenas include a steel mill in Pennsylvania, a ski resort in Utah, a pier in California and even NASA's Cape Canaveral in Florida. When playing in the Survival Mode, one selects an arena, vehicle and opponents, but the oqject is to see how many enemies one can destroy before he or she is eliminated. The gamer will face waves of enemy vehicles and must be able to keep one hand on the wheel and one hand on the weapons at all times in order to stay alive. 
In addition to the basic machine gun stan­dard on all vehicles, "Second Offense" offers an arsenal of new ordinances to each vehicle. Missiles, mortars, mines, rockets and flame­
The new PlayStation thriller "Vigilantes: Second Offense" is

throwers can all be mounted on the respective 
packed full of options to suit any gamers' interests. A mix of set­

vehicles during play. Furthermore, each vehi­cle has a special weapon, unique to its dynam­tings, characters and vehicles makes the game a hit with any 
ic construction. video game action enthusiast. 



While "Second Offense" is not "Goldeneye," it certainly offers an exciting outlet for the stress and frus­tration of students who seek that calming serenity offered only through video games of destruction and turmoil. For the PlayStation enthusiast, who has sampled all types of games from sports to role-playing, "Second Offense" incor­porates a diverse mix of settings, characters and vehicles and produces a tremendous product that can appeal to almost any video game players' interests. Despite master­ful graphics, substantial character development and full­throttle devastation, a superior quality to note is how V82 really allows the game to be controlled by the video game players. Toss "Second Offense" in your PlayStation and buckle-up your adrenaline because the intense action will drive you to pure pandemonium. 
'Wu-Tang' is just like other fighting games 
Shaolin Style" is 
voice-overs well dispersed throughoutBy MICHAEL KERR very tough to beat. the game.
Scene Writer 
and 3-D graphics On the downside, the violence asso­and lifelike move­ciated with this game makes "Mortal 
What do you get when you cross a 
men ts make each Kombat" seem like a game for sissies. 
legendary rap group with modern 
battle eerily realis­The fatalities involved in each fight
technology? An all out fighting simula­tic. This is definite­are graphic and leave you sometimes 
tion game that certainly doesn't leave 
ly not a game sick to your stomach. A parental lock 
much to 
where "just feature at the beginning of "Wu-Tang:the imagi­
hitting the Shaolin Style" serves well to keepnation. "Wu-Tang: buttons" will impressionable minds from getting
If you 
get you very into the really gory scenes. 
aren't 
Shaolin Style" far. Each of Another downturn lies in the actual 
familiar 
the charac­difficulty involved in the game itself. 
with Wu­

ters you can Some levels are literally impossible to 
T a n g 
choose from conquer without incredible amounts 
Clan, then 
has more of patience and practice. Although a fighting 
than 20 sig­countless hours of work have obvious­
v i d e o out olfive shamrocks 
nature moves ly gone into developing this game, it 
g a m e 
that must be does little to truly set itself apart from starr in g Maker: Activision mastered in the fighting games of the past. Evon 
them as order to com­though the addition of the overall 
s w o r d 
plete the popularity of the Wu-Tang Clan to 
masters would dcfinitelv seem out of quest. A very nice this game docs a lot, it fails to place to say the least. But the actual 
feature of this impress as a truly unique game. The 

story behind this PlayStation game 
game is that it pro­die-hard Wu-Tang Clan fans will love
Graphic Courtesy of Activision

incorporatPs much of what the Wu­
vides a practice this game, but those who have no idea
It's obvious that much work went into creating 'Wu­
Tang Clan is all about. 
mode where you about this group will leave this game
Centered on the group's fondness for Tang; Shaolin Style,' although there is little to set it 
can spar and learn undoubtedly disappointed.
kung fu movies. this game plays well apart from other games in the same genre. With high
all of the secret Overall. "Wu-Tang: Shaolin Style" is 
into their rap style. The overall objec­difficulty and high violence, this game is definitely
moves. The menu in an entertaining game. It may lack tive in the tireless mission is to save this mode gives you geared for the more mature audiences familiar with the much in taste and substance, but it is the Wu-Tang master. He has been kid­
button by button Clan and its style. definitely something worth trying out. 
napped by bandits who are desperate instruction for the Although not recommended for anyoneto learn the secrets of the Wu-Tang 
more difficult ones. young, most Wu-Tang fans will find
soundtrack personally laid down by the

sword fighting style. Set up in a "street Wu-Tang definitely makes this practice that this game is exactly what they'd
Wu-Tang Clan. It is also a plus to befighter" format. you are forced to face necessary as the difficulty or competi­expect from them: a cutting edge

able to choose from the entire cast ofnumerous foes in a quest to save your tion is elevated very (}Uickly. endeavor that definitely sets them

the original Wu-Tang. From 01' Dirtyteacher. 

Among other assorted bonuses asso­apart from everyone else in the rap
to Method Man. each character takesAs far as graphics go. "Wu-Tang: 

ciated with this game include a great industry.
on its distinct personality with lifelike 



Monday, February 7, 2000 page 13 
SHOW REVIEW 
'Best yet' Revue scores with audiences 
The Revue also Naturally. were being careful not to sound too excit­By MOLLY McSHANE inr:ludcd ac:ts that campus issues rd about a video game the other had. One .S~ene Wrircr were not meant were a main of the women said that she wasn't plan­to offend or cause focus of the sar­ning on taking her "skanky" dress to If there is one thing college students nervous laughter. castic wit provid­school, bec:ausc she ..couldn't think of any 
rnnnot get enough of. it's crass. inappro­There was the ed by the men of reason why she would want to look attrac­priate. perverted humor. If' there are two amaz.ing piano Keenan. Stealing tive at Notre Dame." That line got an things, it's that and cheesy television playing by Kevin from the Dining immense reaction from both sexes in the Dowdell, who Hall. the con­audience, although perhaps for diITerent
theme songs. 
The young mf:n from Keenan Hall came (Elven without tentious squirrds reasons. through with plenty of these popular items back-up dancers) and, of course, And. of course, there were jokes about this Wl'Pkend in their 24th annual Keenan captivated the gender relations religion. Pontius Pilate's guide to getting Hcvuc. During their opening speech. direc­crowd with his were subjects out of awkward situations, Jesus getting tor Mike Homanelli and producer Matt remarkable tal­that got big roac­hammered at the 'Bar,ker and DARTing Johnson stated more than once that this ent. Christopher ti ons from the into the afterlife are all subjects not year's rnvil~w was the "best yet." Maybe it Welch wowed the audience. touched upon in the theology courses pro­was tlrn fact that it was the last show of audience with his Particularly vided at Notre Dame. But the risque 
the year, or maybe it was the hundn:>ds of magidan skills amusing was the nature was what made these sketches the girls in the audience all waiting to dance and a piece of skit involving the sur,cess they were. However inappropri­the night away. bnl this Saturday's iwrfor­rope (or many employees at the ate, the line 'Thank you Pontius Pilate, but mance ol' tho Keenan Hevicw was a spec­pi<'c:es). These computer clus­no thank you for killing Jesus Christ" got tacular event. acts were not ters whose solu­big laughs from the many practicing 
Thr show opPned with the unveiling of only flxtraordi­tion for every­Catholics in the room. "KcPrnm. the Ba.rbarian" (a short skinny nary, but also a thing -includ­The main controversy over the Keenan 
kid trying to lift a large sword). and of' nice break ing a dismem­Revue is whether or not the jokes are too course. his 250-pound "sidekir,k." The between urinal bered hard drive cruel, too insensitive, to be told at a public music and narration created a certain ballet and half­-was to "reboot event. As much as people would like to amount of 1\xcitPment and anticipation for dressed men your computer feign offense when they are inadvertently the rest of tlw night. but what first got the clanging themselves with pots and pans. and remember tn save often." called hairy and unattractive, one cannot audience ch1'1~ring was the use of the word Some outstanding individual performers Another sur,cessful skit in Saturday's deny the hysterical laughter that was "hung" when describing the barbarian. emerged from the Keenan Knights this performance was the one entitled '"First going on in the O'Laughlin auditorium this And thus. the mood was sel. Saturday as well. Ryan Cunningham Phone Call," in which four guys attempted weekend. Jokes about a drunken Jesus 
Granl('d. the show was noi all penis entertained the masses with a short stand­to explain where exactly gender relations Christ blaspheming our God are shameful jokes and fart noises. There were also up routine. He discussed, among other went wrong at Notre Dame. The problem in theory, but when some guy is up on some impressiVP musical acts, like the things, the overwhelming amounts of apparently started with the infamous "first stage dressed as the Son of Man Himself enj(1yable performance of "You Shook Me pornography found on the Internet these call" between future roommates before stumbling around plotting to turn water All Night Long." complete with a fog days. It seems that even his innocent their freshmen year of college. Two young into wine so He can get more wasted, the machine and mini-fireworks. Adam research on the topic of "sweet, sweet men enacted the female call, and two oth­ridiculousness of it washes the conscience Martzke was indeed a talented performer. donkey loving" led him to sites based on ers enacted the male call. The women away. After a few tense giggles and a but tlrn crowd may have gotten a little porn. And who could forget Mike were naturally very high-pitched and full glance to your neighbor, relaxation ensues rnstless without the chon!ographed danr,e McKegney's touching song, "Captain Willy of squeals; and the men were cool and laid and you realize that sometimes it's all by numerous young men in "wife-beat­Finger Puppet?" His childhood memories back. The female roommates were calling right to be politically incorrect. Sometimes ers. are now also our own. each other soul mates, while the men it's even fun. 

• 
., 
THE GUY 


CHesaid ••• Slie sauf••. 
Scene asks about love in a series ofcolumns leading up to Valentine :S Day. -Today: Introductions ­Respond to these columns at Scene@nd.edu.
SCOTT LITTLE 

I am Scott Little (big in all the to make girls happy. Most of us right places!. I like football, beer give really nice hugs with our big and women. Oh yeaaah. and strong arms. We also offer pro­Hi! I am an off-campus senior pizza! Put them all together and I tection from mean boys. And 
with no prior Observer writing am in heaven. most of us are fun to talk to and experience. 
I stand about 6-foot-3 in the snuggle with. However, a friend of mine morning. And can stand about I also have some advke for thought that I would be a good six beers at night. Jguess I girls: You all aren't going to look candidate for this series of shoul<l give my general outlook· like movie stars or llussian r,olumns. I have never had a on women. since Valnntinc's Dav super-models, so just look your serious Domer-to-Domer rela­is r'.omin · up. I think women at · besl and you'll get what you tionship beyond the friendship this stag'H in my life should be dm;crve. realm so J do not reallv know around for a good time. They Senses of humor are really why I am the one to write should hr. fun. and not loo emo­important too. Also, make it about the dating scene here at tional. Girls should do their best more obvious when you are Notre Dame. However, I have to look nicf' and m1trwtain mr.. interested in one of us. ~o more been told that I hold some Not entertain me like I'm at a silly games. Life is too short for 
strong (and sometimes contro­nudie bar. but nakednmis is A­that goofy stuff. versial) views and critiques so OK. JK all thn way. II ave some And when you are walking by that could be it. good conversation ready. It someone on the sidewalk and The on-campus years of my wouldn't b(' a had idea il'thev you think they look cut<', look at Notre Dame life were spent in kept up on some sports loo. fr them and say hi or starl up a Lyons Hall. For you women thev an~n•t into that. th(W should conversation. Guys too. Too who live there and those men talk about working out or food. often, here in the Midwest, peo­who have attempted to visit. 
My days are always brighter ple get dull and just walk around you know that it is the chastity when I S<'c pretty girls around. I with their heads down because of belt of South Quad. This con­don't think it is that hard for girls the weather, or they look straight tributes to my comments on to take a little time each morning ahead. Look at far.cs. Pretend and look their best. Guys do stuff you are at Mount Rushmore. 
THE GAL 

ERICKA RAVETTINE 
gender relations and dating at Notre Dame. 
Generally, when I lived on campus my female friends and I would either have people come to our room or we would visit our male friends in their rooms. Then 1:59 a.m. came around and there would be a mad rush for the door. 
Things have not changed that much. The only difference is that we do not go to the dorms anymore, and we frequent the bars much more often. OK, and sometimes it might be a bit later than 1:59 a.m. 

By this time you are probably thinking: This girl is going to ..,.. write five more of these columns? But here is the bright side, we want to hear your views and the Observer Scene is accepting letters to the edi­tor. 
Tomorrow's topic: Boy bands vs. Teen divas 
>T' 

page l4 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 7', 2000 
M. Bball 
continued from page 24 

back into the game in the late going with three shots from behind the arc. 
Senior point guard Jimmy Dillon was nearly the team's savior for the second time in one week. He hit a 3-pointer to narrow the gap to two against Pittsburgh in the final minute. Dillon had a steal. followed by a break-away slam dunk in the crucial moments against St. John's. 
.. 
Seabrooks and Lockhart hit two free throws apiece in the final 28 seconds, securing the win for Pittsburgh. 
Four Panthers scored in dou­ble digits -Greer and Lockhart with 17. Seabrooks with 1G. and Holmes with 10. Meanwhile, only Murphy and sophomore David Graves tallied 10 or more points for the Irish. 
The Panthers dominated the boards, outrobounding the Irish 43-30. 
Freshman Donatas Zavackas was a key addition to the Panthers' game, after missing the first match against. the Irish. Zuvackas, despite only scoring two points and four rebounds, managed to rein Murphy in. holding him to 20 points. Of Notre Dame's nine losses. Murphy has been kept below his scoring average in all but one. 
BOXING 

Frazier wins, challenges Ali 
Associated Press 
SCRANTON. Pa. 

Jacqui Frazier-Lyde, Smokin' Joe Frazier's daugh­ter. turned pro with a first­round victory Sunday. then threw down the gauntlet to Muhammad Ali's daughter, Laila. 
"Laila Ali, vou wanted to know if I was· a professional fighter. now you see." Frazier­Lyde said after stopping Teela Reese in the first round. "I'll kick your butt Laila Ali. I'm challenging you. Don't make me come and get you." 
The 38-year-old Frazier­Lyde. a Philadelphia lawyer and mother of three children. didn't look nearly as impres­sive as the 21-vear-old Ali did when she won her debut by knocking out April Fowler in 31 seconds Oct. 6. Ali has won two more fights sinc:e. 
Watching Frazier-Lyde's vic­tory was Laila Ali's sister, Khalilah, who lives in Philadelphia and is a friend of Jacqui's 
"They take the history 
between their fathers serious. and they should," Kahlilah said. Joe Frazier and Muhammad Ali had three leg­endary fights, with Ali winning two of them. 
Frazier-Lyde is scheduled to fight March 19 at Mountaineer Race Track and Casino in Chester, W.Va. 
With her father. the former heavyweight champion, watch­ing and her brother, Marvis, working her corner. Frazier­Lyde, billed as Sister Smoke. came out winging against the 19-year-old Reese. 

Jimmy Dillon battles for a loose ball in Wednesday's win over West Virginia. Dillon scored· eight points in the loss to Pittsburgh. 
NHL Bure brothers lea1d World team to wir1 
Associated Press 
TORONTO 
Three goals, two brothers, one special moment in an NHL All-Star game that. for a change, was something more than an unr-xciting shootout. 
Pavel Bure scored three goals, two sr,t up by little brother Valeri. and goal­tender Olaf Kolzig played a rare shutout period as the World team turned the 50th All-Star game into an uncom­mon rout, dominating North America 9-4 on Sunday. 
"That's why I got MVP, he set me up a lot," Pavel Bure said, nudging his little broth­er. 
The Bure brothers nearly connected for another goal in a four-goal World third peri­od, but Valeri disobeyed big brother's instructions by passing up an open shot to try to fefld Pavel again. 
"Younger brother never lis­tens to older brother, you know how that is,'' said Valeri, who plays for Calgary and insists he would take less pay to play alongside Pavel in Florida. "J thought it would be even better if he got a fourth goal." 
Except for the 1998 Olympics in Nagano, the Bures have not played together since their days with the once-famous Red Army team. Valeri joined the Russian team at age 16. when Pavel already was a star. 
'Tm his biggest fan," Valeri Bure said. "It's easy to play with him, 99 percent of time give him the puck he scores a goal." 
Bure's hat trick was the 11th in All-Star history, but the fourth in four years in a game that has increasingly emphasized offense. with an average of 16 goals scored over the last 10 years. 
That's what made Kolzig's shutout third period so unusual. as he faced only eight shots and stopped them all as the World stretched a 5-4 lead at the start of the period. 
"We got some great goal­tending," said World coach Scotty Bowman, who coached in an All-Star game f"or an unprecedented fifth d1~cade. "lie [Kolzigl made some tough saves and really distin­guished himself out there." 
Pavo] Demitra of St. Louis scored his second goal and Miroslav Satan of Buffalo and Radek Bonk of Ottawa also scored in the third period against Mike Hichter. the only goaltender to not allow a goal in Saturday night's skills competition. 
The five-goal decision fol­lowed close victories by North America, 8-6 in 1999 and 8-7 in 1988, in the first two All-Star gam11s played under the present format. 
In a game where defense is an afterthought and hitting is totally forgotten as players are as concerned with pre­venting injuries as they are scoring goals. hometown goaltender Curtis Joseph of the Maple Leafs made 20 saves in a busy first period, yet still trailed 3-2. 
With icings waved off and the play constantly flowing from end-to-end with no checking or face-offs to inter­fere, it took only 11 minutes to play the first nine minutes of clock time -an unheard of pace for a regular-season game. 
The first and only penalty wasn't assessed until 5:51 of the third period, when Colorado's Sandis Ozolinsh of the World team was called for hooking. 
St. Louis goaltender Homan Turek started for the injured Dominik Hasek of Buffalo and was outstanding despite yielding goals to Joe Sakic and Jeremy Hoenick. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

South Bend based company is  ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE  1991 Honda accord EX  Jim Harris dedicates his foil victo- 
NOTICES  WANTED  presently in search of a dynamic accomplished IT professional/Web  AND CLOSE http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/  88,000 miles $6000 219-273-8483  ries to Gillbois  
guru. For the development of its  email:mmmrentals@aol.com  
new Internet business team.  232-2595  Cause when it's on and popping,  
LOSE WEIGHT! EAT WHAT YOU LIKE!  Clubs· Student Groups  Successful candidate possesses advanced computer skills and has  6 BEDRM. '00-'01  PERSONAL  it's on and popping.  
WEIGHT WATCHERS BRAND- Student organizations earn $1,000­ an extensive knowledge of all  $1200/mo. 273-0482  
NEW  $2.000 with the easy campus- aspects of web management,  www.thecommentator.com  
ON CAMPUS PROGRAM  fundraiser.com three hour fundrais­ graphic/technical design and pro- Whatever that means.  
ing event. No sales required.  gramming. Forward resume to  Available '00-01.  May the Sacred Heart of Jesus be  
Your super-convenient dream diet  Fundraising dates are filling quickly,  Human Resource Dept. PO Box  4·6 Student Rental House ... 2 1/2  praised, adored and glorified  
from a name you trust is coming to  so call today' Contact campus­ 1007 Notre Dame, IN 46556  baths: lots of space;  Parking Lot  throughout the whole world, now  
Notre Dame and SL Mary's' No  fundraiser.com, (888) 923-3238, or  and Laundry ...  Dave 291-2209  and forever. Most Sacred Heart of  Late, late night  
complicated counting! Eat pizza,  viSlt www.campusfundra,ser.com.  In search of Web Guru for South  Jesus, I put my trust in you. Holy  
cake-any lood you crave and lose  Bend based company. Creative  Mary of Jesus, pray for me. St.  
weight. Get five info-packed book- free thinker; who can do it all with  Available Summer '00 & '00·01.  Jude patron of hopeless cases,  
lets. Ions of super-easy recipes,  the Web. Forward resume lo:  4-student rental house ... Security  pray for me and grant this favor I  What's my age again?  
and specialized online suppon from  Professor needs 3 hrs. help on  Personnel Dept PO Box 185  System, Air Conditioned, Laundry ..  ask. Say this prayer 9 x's a day for  
trained Weight Watchers staff. You  small farm 1 mile from N.D.  Osceola, IN 46561  Dave  9 days. Publish prayer.  
pay JUSI $79 for 7 weeks. Start the  277-5328  291-2209.  
m11lenn1um right-register today over  Email Ford.1@no.edu  South Bend based company seeks  My name is what?  
the ptione: l-800-651-6000. Visa,  talented graphic designer.  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT  
Maste!Card and Discover accept- Advanced PhotoShop and other  SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND  VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS  
ed  Living off-campus next year and  design software skills required.  EXCELLENT NEIGHBORHOOD  VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS  
seeking a female roommate. Email  Send resume, salary requirements  CLOSE 2773097  VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS  six weeks is way too short  
me al ghanlon@dellnet.com  and portfolio samples to: Personnel  Deadline is 2 pm on Friday, Feb.  
LOST & FOUND  WANTED  Dept PO Box 30 Notre Dame, IN 46556  B'NB REGISTRY  11.  
2 Tx  219-291-7153  WAAAAAAAY, too SllOrt  
M8Ball ND-UCONN  
ANNABELLE-YOU LEFT YOUR GLASSES AND CONTACT CASE IN MY CAR WHEN I GAVE YOU A  Please call Alan 634·4469  FOR RENT  FOR SALE  Congrats to The Undertones. One more step 10 Lincoln Center. Krupa  I should start doing homework  
RIDE TO ND FROM THE TRAIN  FOOSBALL players wanted.  before I flunk out.  
STATION-MONDAY. CALL 272­ Looking for 2-3 high level teams to  2·6 BDRM HOMES.'00-'01 272­ New Phone Card  
9225  play. Contact Din evenings 257­ 6306  886 rnins. $20  There are no first names, only last.  Here is another HAC classified.  
4441.  258-4805 or 243-9361  

Munday. February 7, 2000 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

MILLENNIAL SERIES 
DEPARTMENT OF THEOLOGY UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

IMAGING THE DIVINE: A JESUS FILM AND LECTURE SERIES 
FEBRUARY 3-9, 2000 ANNENBERG AUDITORIUM AT THE SNITE MUSEUM UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3 
7-9:30 PM 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4 
7-9:30 PM 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 5 
7-9:30 PM 
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 6 
7-9:30 PM 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7 
9:30-11 PM 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8 
7-9:30 PM 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 9 
7-9:30 PM 
FEATURING LLOYD BAUGH, S.J. ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF FILM STUDIES AND THEOLOGY PONTIFICAL GREGORIAN UNIVERSITY, ROME 
LA RICOTTA (1963) PIER PAOLO PASOLINI 
LECTURE AND FILM 

THE LAST TEMPTATION OF CHRIST (1988) MARTIN SCORSESE 
FILM FOLLOWED BY SHORT LECTURE 
GODSPELL (1973) DAVID GREENE 
FILM FOLLOWED BY SHORT LECTURE 
THE GOSPEL ACCORDING TO ST. MATTHEW (1964) PIER PAOLO PASOLINI 
FILM FOLLOWED BY SHORT LECTURE 
,n: 

JESUS OF MONTREAL (1989) DENYS ARCAND 
FILM FOLLOWED BY SHORT LECTURE 
OUT OF ROSENHEIM (1987) PERCY ADLON 
FILM FOLLOWED BY SHORT LECTURE 
A SHORT FILM ABOUT LOVE (1988) KRZYSZTOF KIESLOWSKI 
FILM FOLLOWED BY SHORT LECTURE 
ALL EVENTS ARE OPEN TO THE PUBLIC. 
THE THEOLOGY DEPARTMENT THANKS THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS, THE OFFICE OF THE PROVOST, AND THE DEPARTMENT OF FILM, TELEVISION. AND THEATRE FOR THEIR ASSISTANCE. 


. . ,.., , 
: page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 7, 2000 
NFL 

NFC defeats AFC in highest-scoring Pro Bowl 
Associated Press 
HONOLULU 
Randv !\loss set records with nine catches for 212 vards, and \ifike Alstott scored three touchdowns in the NFC's 51.­31 victory over the AFC on Sunday in. NFC 51 the highest-scoring AFC 31 Pro Howl ever. 
Arizona's Aeneas Williams and Tampa Bay's Derrick Brooks returned inter­ceptions for touchdowns as the NFC dominated the game from the start in snapping a three-game AFC win streak. 
The 82 points broke the record of 64 set in 1980. 
Moss, the 6-foot-4 Minnesota star selected the MVP, used his height advantage to out­leap the Al<C defensive backs, particularly 5-11 Sam Madison of Miami and 6-foot James Hasty of Kansas City. 



Moss' last catch was a 25­yard TD reception from Carolina·s Steve Beuerlein with 1 :05 to play that closed the scoring. 
Alstott, the Tampa Bay full­back, s·cored on runs of 1, 3 and l vards. He finished with 13 can~ies for 67 vards. 
Brooks picked off a pass from Jacksonville quarterback Mark Brunell and raced unwuched 20 yards for a touchdown to make it 44-24 with 11:12 left. 
Jaguars receiver Jimmy Smith caught three touchdown passes. and 11nished with eight catches for 119 yards, His last sr,ore. a 52-varder from Indianapolis' Pe.yton Manning, made it 44-31 with 6:30 to play. 
Manning had two touchdown passes and two interceptions, including the 62-yard return by Williams that gavP the NFC 
a: 7 -0 lead less than three min­utes into the game. 
Williams had an open field 

after Colts receiver Marvin 
Harrison fell down. and he 
raced down the left sideline · fur the score. 
The next timt> the Nrc had 

the ball, St. Louis quarterback 
Kurt Warner connected with 
l\foss for 48 yards to put the 
ball on the AFC 3. Warner, the 
Super Bowl rv!VP, was 8-of-11 
for 123 yards. 
Detroit's Jason Hanson 

kicked a 21-yard field goal to 
make il 10-0. He had three 
field goals on tho day. includ­
ing a 51-yardcr at thP end of 
the first half that tied a Pro 
Bowl record. 
The AFC got on the boar<l when Brunell teamed with Smith on a 5-yard touchdown 
pass with 30 seconds loft in the first quarter, capping a 
68-yard  drive  in  which  
Tennessee's  Eddie  George  
gained half the yards.  

The NFC pushed its lead to 17-7 three minutPs into the second quarter 011 a 1-yard run by Allstott, following a 46­ya rd pass from Warner to Moss. 
After an exchange or turnovers, Oakland quarter­back Hich Gannon connected with Kansas City tight end Tony Gonzalez 011 a 10-yard 
puss to make it 17-14. 
Glyn Milburn of the Chicago returned a punt to the AFC 43, starting a five-play drive that saw Alstott score from the :1 after running for 27 yards tho prPvi.ous play. 
Manning then led the AFC: on an 87-yard drive that ended with a 21-yard TD pass to Smith with 20 seconds left in the half. 
A 66-yard return by Michael Bates or the Carolina Panthers set up Hanson's 51-vardcr as. time expired. · 
COORDINATOR OF YOUTH MINISTRY NEEDED 
-Coordinator of youth ministry needed in a suburban, 2500-family parish in Baton Rouge, La. Ministry will include recruitment, development and training of volunteer youth workers and col­laborative work with a large parish staff. The ideal candidate will possess a minimum of three years' experience in working with teenagers, and a degree in theology, youth ministry, pastoral stud­ies, communications, guidance, or the equivalent in education and/or experience. Benefits included. 
-Send resume and references no later than March 1, 2000 to: 
St. Thomas More Catholic Church 
1141 Goodwood Blvd. 
Baton Rouge, LA 70815 
or Fax us at (225)275-1407 Attn: Father John Carville Email address: STM02@compuserve.com. 


20th Centu ,,< Dance Ret 
Friday and Saturday, 
~-;~;;:;:~·····
... . 
.. u.... -..,,

Saint Mary's College 
ER... 
THE ARTS 
NOTRE DAM«..-Ill

O'Laughlin Auditorium 
. -~~;~~;;. .. 


For ticket infonnation contact the Saint Mary's Box ood!'284-4626 
THE 


is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Me;tnaging Editor 
Applicants should have strong editorial and journalistic skills and be comfortable in a management position. A basic understanding of newspaper produc­tion and experience with rhe Macintosh system is helpful. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College student is encouraged to apply. 
Any sop ho mote or iunior business major!~!!~~!!ary~~!§,~o~experience is e,,couraged to apply. Applicants 
should have srrong inrerpetsonal and organizational skills and a basic understanding of accounting principks. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfwe-page statement to Mike Connolly by 5 p.m., Thursd.ty, February 10, 2000. for additional information about the position, contdct Business Manager Dave Rogero at 631-5313, Managing Editors Shannon Ryan and Ltium Petelle at 631-4541 or Editor in Chief Michelle Krupa at 631-4542. Applicants are also encouraged to stop by the office in South Dining Hall with any questions. 

Monday, Fehruary 7, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 HOCKEY 
leers split CCHA weekend series against Buckeyes 
leading 12th goal. on the rebound off of Ryan sophomore center Mike With the win on Saturday,
By MATT OLIVA 
The Irish nearly lost the Doldor's shot. The goal gave McCormick converted on the however, Notre Dame moved 
Spons Writn 
game with time running out in Chin six points in the last five power play midway through the back into sole-possession of the 
n"gulation. games. first period. Irish freshman fifth spot. Notre Dame was 
The Irish survived a last-sec­osu·s Eric Meloche came into Tho Irish went on to domi­goaltender Tony Zasowski had helped by Bowling Green's ond Buckeye penalty shot to Lhe Nutre Dame zone on a nate the secon<l period, but appeared to smother the puck defeat of Nebraska-Omaha, remain in fifth place in the breakaway. Tyson Fraser tried failed to add to their lead. Thev but it squirted loose to set up pushing UNO down to sixth CCHA standings. Thr> dose vic­to cut the forward off. Meloche outshot the Buckeyes 17-7, but McCormick's easy goal. OSU place. tory gave beat i..raser to the slot and eventually surrendered the then added to its lead early in The win did not make up any the Notre managed to get a shot off that game-tying goal. Ohio State the second period on freshman ground on the two third-place Dame hock­was denied by Irish goaltender called a time-out at the 13:46 right wing Nie ·Boileau second teams. Lake Superior State ey u~am Tony Zasowski. mark and then converted 12 goal of tho season from. posted a 3-1 win over Mir.higan (12-14-6, 9-The referee, however, called seconds later. Jean-Francois Carlson scored on a feod from State, leaving the two teams 8-5) a split for a penalty shot after Fraser Dufor converted on a pass from Dolder for a power-play goal tied for third. The Irish can in the had swiped at the puck as he Meloche on an odd-man rush early in the third period to put control their fate in the stand­weekend was falling down behind for the lone Buckeye goal. the Irish back in the game. ings with six games remaining. series in Meloche. With argument from The Irish held a 36-23 shot They were not able to tie the Notre Dame faces Nebraska­Columbus. the frish be'nr:h, OSU's lC'ading advantage, marking the sixth­game in the remainder of the Om ah a next weekend and Ohio. srnrer took the penalty shot straight game that Notre Dame period. finally giving up an Michigan State in the final 
The Irish and fired wide, with onlv 16 has outshot its opponent. empty-netter as the Buckeyes series of the season. came back from a '.-3-1 loss to seconds remaining. The missed During the course of those six put the game away. "It is definitely better for us the Buckeyes on Friday night to shot left the game tied at l at games, the Irish have posted a "Friday was not an indication to be seeded as high as possi­pull out a 2-1 overtime win on the end nf rngulation. 4-1-1 record while amassing a of Notre Dame hockey," Molina ble." Molina said. "We want to Dan Carlson's goal with 56 SPC­"The game was unbeliev­213-124 edge in shots on goal said. "We had to concentrate go in on a roll and then we will onds remaining in overtime. able," said Irish defeuseman (average of 36-21). on coming together more as a have a better chance. We hold 
Senior Bon Simon set up the Sean Molina. "It was huge for In Friday night's game. Ohio team, and we sat down as a it in our hands. Nebraska is play with a pass from the left us Lo comeback and win, espe­State boosted their chances for team and talked about it on right behind us and Michigan side of tlie crease. where fresh­cially Dan sr.oring that goal. We qualifying for the playoffs with Saturday. l think we did a bet­State is ahead of us. Those man Michael Chin slapped it werf' playing well and came a 3-1 win. Senior goalie Ray ter job in the second game, it games could dflcide as high as tovvard the net. Carlson gath­from behind in the series to get Aho made 26 saves and Ohio was great to sBe everyone play­second place in thfl standings. ered the rebound and put it the win in the ser.ond game." State's offense made the most ing together." so if we play weH these last six past the Ohio State goaltender The Irish scored first in tho out of their rhanr.es to defeat Friday's loss had temporarily games, there is no end to for his fourth game-winning game. Chin put the Irish up 1-0 the Irish. left the Irish in a tie for fifth where we might go."goal of th<1 season and team in the first period. converting Notre Dame fell behind 1-0 as place in the CCHA. 



NBA 
Stockton takes over in fourth as Jazz defeat Spurs 
Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY 

Tim Duncan owned the first 46 minutr.s. John Stockton took . over for the final two. 
Stockton's two clutch baskets helped Lhf' Utah Jazz break a six-game losing streak as they defeated the San Antonio Spurs 93-90 Sunday. 
"It was just nice to get over the top," Stor.kton said. "It's only one win. but it sure feels a lot 
better  walking  around  the  
house."  
With  the  Jazz  down  two  

points, Stockton made a 3-point­(~r with two minutes remaining to put Utah ahead 89-88. After Tury Porter powered in for a layup. Stockton's driving layup with 16 seconds remaining gave Ltah a 91-90 lead. 
On the next possession, Duncan was closely guarded by Karl Malone and clanged a jumper off the back rim from 20 feet away. A loose ball foul on Jaren Jackson gave Bryon Russell a pair of free throws which put Utah ahead 93-90. 
Duncan, again closely guarded by Malone, airballed a 3-pointer at the buzzer. 
"We knew he was going to take the last shot," Malone said. "We just wanted to make sure it was a tough shot." 
Duncan led the Spurs with 32 points, 24 coming in the first half. He managed just two points in the final period. 
"He missed some shots," said Malone, who led Utah with 25 points. "Guys played him tougher. We were not going to let him get into a rhythm in the second half. I put a body on him. I made him step out." 
"They started doubling in the second half," Duncan said. "Thev started coming in a little quicker." 

Duncan has totaled 172 points in his last five games against Utah. The last time San Antonio faced the Jazz, he set a career high with 46 points on Jan. 10. 
Bulls 109, Clippers 90 
Rookie Elton Brand scored 21 points and the Chicago Bulls overcame a 16-point deficit to beat the Los Angeles Clippers for the eighth straight time. 
Toni Kukoc had 20 points, 10 assists and seven rebounds for the Bulls, who dealt the Clippers their fourth straight loss and 18th in 20 games. 
Maurice Taylor scored 23 points and Troy Hudson added 19 off the bench for the Clippers. 
Brand ignited a 14-2 run with a slam dunk and capped it with a short jumper, as the Bulls turned a three-point deficit into a 66-57 lead with 2:55 left in the third quarter. 
Pistons 109, Rockets 105 
Grant Hill didn't take long to show the Detroit Pistons that he was ready to come back from a bruised back. 
Hill. who missed five of the previous seven games, scored 36 points to help the Pistons beat the Houston Rockets. 
"It's incredibly obvious to say this, but we are a much better team with Grant on the Boor," Pistons coach Alvin Gentry said. "It. was good to have him out there. It was really, really good." 
Hill helped the Pistons win their second straight afiflr losing 

O<atentO'\Vsk:fs 
..,, -~72-0970 
Order now! 1/2 mr north on 933 
Q 
eight of nine. Things went much better this time than when he tried to play last week, strug­gling through a game-and-a-half before returning to the sidelines. 
Suns 105, SuperSonics 93 
Jason Kidd had 22 points, 12 assists and seven rebounds and Rodney Rogers added 22 points as the Phoenix Suns used a dominant third quarter to beat the Seattle Supersonics. 
Kidd had 16 points and eight assists in the second half. Penny Hardaway added 19 points and six assists for the Suns, who lost in Seattle 94-86 on Friday night. Rogers, who had a season-high 26 in Seattle, was 8-for-12 from the field. 
Tom Gugliotta scored 13 of his 16 points in the second half and grabbed nine rebounds for Phoenix, which split its season series with Seattle 2-2. 
Friday night, Seattle's Gary Payton got the best of Kidd in a matchup of two of the NBA's best point guards. This one, though, went to Kidd. Payton had 13 points on 4-for-18 shoot­ing and scored one point in the second half. 
Trail Blazers 100, Celtics 94 
Jermaine O'Neal didn't have a lot of time to change the game. 
And he didn't need it. 
The 21-year-old forward scored 13 poi.nts in 13 minutes, pulling down a team-leading eight rebounds to lead the Portland Trail Blazers to a victo­ry over the Boston Celtics. 
"It's hard sometimes when you watch the clock dwindle down. You think ·1 know I can make things happen,'" said O'Neal. the 10th of 10 Trail Blazers to get into the game. "But there's a lot of talent on this team." 
Steve Smith scored 23 and Scottie Pippen added 19, hitting a 3-pointer with 2.2 seconds left in the third period to give the Hlazers a lead they never lost. That's because O'Ncal scored Portland's first seven points of the fourth quarter, and pullrd down five of bis six offensive rebounds in the final period as well. 
Knicks 94, Heat 80 
Patrick Ewing sat at his locker a little longer than usual, trying to convince everybody that this performance wasn't out of the ordinary. 
"Nothing different," he said with a straight face. 
In truth, a lot was different. 
Playing with a perfect mix of raw talent and enthusiasm -a combination that often had been missing from his repertoire this season -Ewing scored a sea­son-high 25 points and grabbed 14 rebounds while outplaying Miami's Alonzo Mourning as the New York Knicks defeated the Heat. 
"I chuckle at the way he's been measured," Miami coach 

..
Pat _Riley said of Ewing, whose game is rounding back into form after missing the first 20 games recovering from a partially torn Achilles' tendon. "You only have to coach a guy like Patrick to know what kind of heart he has. I think he's just beginning to show it." 
76ers 119, Kings 108 
Allen Iverson calmly sank two free throws, and the magic number flashed on the score­board: 50 points. 
The last time he did it, people had a problem with it. 
This time, it was a milestone that showed how much things have changed. 
Iverson tied his career high and made a mockery of his showdown with Sacramento's .Jason Williams as the 76ers beat the Kings. 
Iverson's performance was reminiscent of the one in Cleveland three years ago when he put up 50 in the city where he was booed during the rookie game at All-Star weekend. 
Now, his team is in position to make the playoffs for the second straight season after an eight­year drought, and Iverson is finally shedding his reputation as a selfish showman who cares only about stats. 

.,..,-­...,­...-------~•--~~-~------------......---------­-----­ -•  ------­•----------•--w~•  --.-,.­.-•  • .-,  t  o  ~  •  1  -;-1-.--~,-­ 
t I  
page 18  The Observer . SPORTS  Monday, February 7, 2000  

FENCING 
Notre Dame posts 11-1 record at Northwestern 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Associare Sports Editor 
EVANSTON, Ill. 
The men's and women's fencing teams combined for an 11-1 record Saturday at a Midwest ConferPnce dual mcPt at Nurlhwestern 
LPd by perfect rerords from epeeist Brian Casas, foilists Ozren Debic and Forest Walton, and sabremen Audrez,i Bednarski and Gabor Szel!P, the men won all six of their matches by a combined score of '146-16. 
Tht> women posted the most impressiv(' win of the day with a 27-0 shut out against Lawn"nce but dropped a closf' bout to Northwestern, 15-12. to finish the dav 5-1. 
.:Obviously we were disappointed about the \.vomr.n losing lo Northwestern," men's foil captain Jim Harris said. "But th1w fonrnd well. Thev fenced better than they did against Pen;1 State. I am really happy about where the team in right now and we are going to be ready for the Midwest Championships in March." 
Epec captain Kim DeMaio was also dis­appointed with the women's loss to Northwestern but stressed the improve­ment shown after last weekend's loss to Penn State. \Vhih, the women improved in the rlosc bouts. the Irish were hoping to dral the Wildcats a loss after s0vcral derogatory comments against Notre Dame surfaced in The Daily Northwestern. 
"They have some tough fencers but we showed some improvement over last week especially in the close bouts." she said. "We were 6-1 in the 4-4 bouts. It would have been nice to win because they were so arrogant in their paper." 
The Irish women's sabre team fell for the first time this year as the Wildcats 
.. 
dealt the Irish a 7 -2 loss. At !'oil, however, the Irish bounced back with a decisive 6-3 victory of their own. 
The epee maLch againsL Northwestern was the closPst match of the day. The Wildcats jumped out to a 4-1 lead and threatened to rout the Irish. Led by fresh­man Anna Canick's 3-0 record. how1w1~r. the Irish battled back. 
Meagan Call, who finished the day 11-2, won a ctitical bout to tie close tho gap to 4-3 before Carnick tied the matt:h at 4. Iu the ninth bout, howtwf'r, the Wildcats picked up the win to clinch the match 5-4. 
Despite the close loss, the Irish are looking forward to fenring the Wildcats in the .L\CC at lhe Midwest Championships. 
"J guess maybe they were a little morn up for it than we were," DeMaio said. "But Wfl will see them again do¼n the road so hopet'ully we will h11.ve a rhance to get it back." 
Although the women's sabre team dropped thf' match to Northwestern. it finished lhe day strong with a 5-1 record. Freshman Natalia Mazur led the Jrish with a 13-1 record while Katie Flanagan and Carinanne Mt:Culluugh went 12-4 and 11-2. rcspcr:tiv11ly. 
·with captain and All-American Magda Krol fencing just six bouts, the foil team still posted an undefeated weekend. In Krol's place, Kelly Orsi fenced a strong weekend and finished with an 11-2 rf'cord. Freshman Liza Boutsikaris con• tinued to shine with an 11-0 record while Aimee Kalogera posted an 12-5 record. 
With the exception of the Northwestern women, both the Notre Dame men and the 1,,vomen faced l'ew c:hallenges. After fencing some of the top teams in the r,ountry the past two weeks, getting focused for lesser competition was a chal­lenge. 
"Coming off the last two weekends which were big weekends for us, it's a lit-tie tough to stay focused," llarris said. "l:lut we still have to remain focused because thesf' are our conference oppo­neuts and we need to do well against 

them." 
The Irish men left no doubt about their dominance in lhe conference after the meet. With most of the Irish startr.rs fenc­ing two or less bouts per match, the Irish reserves got their chance to shine. 
"My No. 2 priority after winning is get­ting in all my other guys -getting thr,m qualified so they can compr,te in tho Midwest Championships," Harris said "We just want to make sure everyone gets a reward for all their hard work in prac­tice." 
. Clay Morton and Tony Rizzu Li both posted perfect records for the sabre team. While the foil team got strong perfor­mances by the 4-0 Harris and Jeremy Beau who went 4-1, epee reserves Dominic Guarnaschelli and Scott Gabler went 5-1 and 4-1. respectively. 
In addition to the undefeated rernrds of Casas, Debic. Szelle, Walton and Bednarski, the Jrish starters posted strong weekends. Epee captain James Gaither posted nine wins while Jan Viviani added seven. Sophomorn Steve 
Mautone  complemented  Dobie  and  
Walton's undefeated records  with a  13-2  
record.  




Monday, February 7, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
FENCING 
Irish sabre squad routs Midwest competition 

By MIKE CONNOLLY Associate Sports Editor 
EVANSTON, Ill. 

The most pressing concerns for the men's sabre squad weren't strategy or style 
Saturday  against  the  
Minnesota  Gophers,  but  
instead the identity of a  first  
baseman.  

"Who's on first'?" freshman Matt Fabricant asked his fel­low sabremen before 9-0 vic­tory over the Gophers. 
While the Irish never deter­mined if "l don't know" played third base, they lPft no doubt that they were the top sabre squad in the Midwest with convincing wins over Northwestern, Purdue, Chicago, Lawrence, Minnesota and Case Western. 
The biggest challenge for the Irish this weekend wasn't the tough competition but the lack of com petition. 
"It's harder fencing the guys that aren't very good competi­tion because it's sloppier," said Fabricant who posted an 11-1 record on Saturday. "It's hard to get around certain things." 
Senior captain Clay Morton had the difficult task of trying to get his team focused on the meet when it was obvious that the Irish would win easily. 
"Being as good as they are, they are used to this [easy 

tlitl 
CENT[R FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Junior Business Majors 
Internships available to work in 
ACCION Offices 
Accion is a micro-lending organization assisting people with no credit history to obtain loans to improve build their businesses. 
• 
10 -12 week program during the summer, 

• 
$2,500.00 tuition scholarship for 12 weeks 

• 
with housing and food stipend 

• 
3 academic credits -(elective) Theo 360 (Business Approach to Social Change) 


Available m 6 cities: Albuquerque, Chicago, El Paso, New York City, San Antonio, San Diego 
•• Applications available at the Center for Social Concerns & COBA Undergraduate office :;r due February 18th 
Interviews in March at the Center for Social Concerns with a representative from ACCION 
Information Session · February 9th Room 121, COBA 5:00 PM 
wins]." Morton said. "They just go out there and do what they need to and then go cheer on the other squads." 
Setting individual goals and expectations was important at a meet where the learn was practically guaranteed six wins. 
"Everyday you are out there you are competing against yourself," said junior sabre­man Andrzej Bednarski, who led the Irish with a 15-0 record. "So you have keep yourself amused when you are out there -doing different things a,?d keeping everyone amused. 
Bednarski found a way to. keep himself amused against the Gophers. With the team fighting to not only win every bout but al.so to win every bout 5-0, Bednarski cringed when he gave up a touch. Bednarski quickly tuned the disappointment of giving up a touch into laughter when he jumped into the air and slashed his opponent's head for a 5-1 win. 
Bednarski is clearlv the jokester of the squad wfth his antics on the strip. 
"I don't take anything too seriously opponents, myself, coaches, other team­mates as well as everything else," he said. 
Bednarski and sophomore Gabor Szelle have both earned All-American honors in the past while Fabricant and sophomore Andre Crompton are both capable of All-American status this year. 
With four talented sabremen 
on the team and only three 
starting spots, Morton has a 
tough job finding them all a 
chance to fence. 
"First you just let them duke 
it out and then see who comes 
out on top," Morton said. 
"Then you give the fourth per­
son shots to see if he can do 
it." 
WHh Crompton fencing 
internationally Saturday, 
Fabricant got the chance to 
step into the starting lineup. 
"Matt has shown he can do 
it," Morton said. "Crompton 
didn't come today but Matt 
stepped up and won every 
bout but one. It's fun that 
your second best guy leaves 
and you don't lose a thing." 
Fabricant admits that it's 
tough to wait behind such 
strong teammates but said 
that team goals are more 
important than individual 
accolades. 
"It's definitely tough to wait 
your turn but I am just here to 
support the team," Fabricant 
said. "It's all about the team 
and not just one individual." 
Even beyond the top four, 
the sabre team dominated. 
Morton finished the day with an 8-0 record while Tony Rizzuti also posted a perfect record at 5-0. 
With so much talent, prac­tices are often more intense than the meets. The Irish go head-to-head every day in practice to fight for starting positions and respect among teammates. 
"Practice is much more diffi­cult," Fabricant said. "Fencing with Gabor and Andre and Andrzej -it is much easier to fence [other teams.]" 
On a squad with some much talent, one fencer still distin­guishes himself as the best -Szelle. 
"Ile makes it look easy," Morton said. "He's smooth and fast as lightning. It's a great asset to have him as part of the team. When he f'ences us in practices, he makes us better and uplifts the whole squad." 
Szelle, who finished second at the NCAAs last year, won all 13 of his bouts with ease. Szellc also finished second at the Junior World Cup Championships in 1998. 
In 2000, he has set his sights on his first NCAA sabre individual championship. 
"That's my goal for this year," he said. "That's what I can control. I know that I have to win the individual championship to help the team win the title." 
When the sabre squad trav­els to Stanford in March for the NCAA Championships, it will have a chance for revenge against the only team that defeated the Irish this year ­the St. John's Red Storm. In the first meet of the year, the Red Storm surprised the Irish with a 7-2 win. 
Szelle and the rest of the squad consider that loss a fluke and believe that they will turn the tables on St. John's in the spring. 
"Even if we would have 
fenced them again in New 
York right after we lost, we 
would have beaten them," 
Szelle said. "It was just one of 
those matches where we 
didn't focus. I don't know 
what was wrong with us 
because we beat Stanford and 
Stanford beat St. John's. We 
are definitely capable of beat­

-
ing them and I am pretty sure 
we will beat them at the 
NCAAs." 
Bednarski exudes even more 
confidant than Szelle. 
"Among the sabre squads 
we dominant the nation," 
Bednarski said. "We are the 
dominant team in the countrv, 
The loss to St. John's was ea~­• 
ily a mistake. St. John's is 
going to be sorry that Notre 
Dame was ever built in the 
state of Indiana when we get 
done with them." 
The Notre Dame Music Department Guest Lecture Series gresents 
Pamela Potter 
Associate Professor of Musicology and German University ofWisconsin at Madison 
"Some Thoughts on the Problem of 'Nazi Music"' 
Monday, February 7, 4:30 pm Room 100 Hesburgh Center 
The lecture is free and open to the public. For more information, call 631-6201 or visit www.nd.edu/~music. 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 7, 2000 
Casey 
continued lrom page 24 
faces. 
This unselfishness off lhe court transrends to thflir suc­cess between the lines. There are no looks of disgust when they are taken out or a game. no smug demeanor when their teammate misses a shot. 
Glance at the S<'ason statis­tics and you'll see four players averaging bP.tween 10.8 and 15 points pl'f ganw. I\Jo player avPrages morn than 10 Geld goal attempts per game. The Irish average more than 20 assists per game. Eight players average more than 10 minutes per game. Five different play­ers have led the team in scor­ing in a game with eight differ­ent players leading in rnbound­ing. 
Every night there seems to be a new facn in the spotlight. For the past two games it's been Kelley Siemon's turn to shine. One game after scoring a career-high 23 points against Providence. Lhe junior forward contributed 11 points and 14 rebounds on Saturday. Playing lhe entire second half, Siemon dominatPd the boards against the Eagles, on both ends of the i1uor. A starter last year. Siemon has adjusted well to her new role. 
"It was hard for me [coming off the bench]." Siemon said. "But now later in the season it's really a role that I've come to like. I can get a feel for the game so when I come in, I can be ready to play." 
"She's really done a great job with her attitude in terms of acceptance of her role [coming off the bench]," Irish head coach Muffel McGraw said. "With Danielle [Green) in the starting lineup we need a spark off the bench and Kelley has been that spark." 
Siemon's acceptance of her role coming off the bench is a microcosm of what makes this team special. 
The main role is played by junior Ruth Riley -the team leader in both scoring and rebounding. The 6-foot-5 All­American center. among the nation's best players turned in one or her best performance's of the season against Boston College with 23 points on 7 -for­11 shooting and 9-for-10 from the line. Her dominance was never

-more apparent than in the first 
12:17 of the second half on Saturday. In that span. Riley scored 15 of her team's 21 points, helping expand the lead from three to 12. At one point, Riley had 11 points in a row, including a perfect five for live from the foul line. 
And on defense. Rilev limited 

• 
Eagles center Jamie C~urnoyer 
to just 6 for 15 from the Geld, 
while also making the Eagle 
guards think twice before dri­
ving through the lanP. 

cent mark from the foul line, 
Hiley could be easily bo a 20­
point, 10-rebound performer 
every night. 
Bui it's Ililey's unselfishness, her willingness to be patient on offonse and get hAr teammates involved that has helped this team to a 19-2 record. 
''When vou look at her st.atis­lit:s, you ·~e got to realize who she's playing with," said onA WNBA scout at Saturday's game. 
The supporting cast includes freshman Alicia Hatay, whose swectjumper rnmindcd Irish fans of a past great, former All­American Beth Morgan. 
Then thflrfl's thr: point guard and team leader, Niele Ivey. She has the unique talent of being able to dominate a game without scoring. On Saturday, Ivey shot just l-for-11 from the fif'ld. but hauled down nine rebounds, dished out nine assists and had three steals in 38 minutes. 
Her backr.ourt mate Green's speed and quickness helps thP Irish in transition. The 5-foot-8 senior scored 19 points un Saturday, with none of her licld goals corning from l'urt.her than eight feet away. When the lrish needed her most, Green delivered with nine points in the final 6:18 of the game. · 
Helping out in the front court are Julie Henderson. Ericka Haney, Amanda Barksdale and Meghan Leahy. The quartet provides rebounding and defensive help for the Irish, who have six players taller than 6-foot. 
"We have such good bal­ance." McGraw said. "A couple of years ago when we went to the Final Four [in 1997] we relied on Beth Morgan and Katrina Gaither every single game. This team's not like that. We have great talent. We have five or six people that can lead the team in scoring." 
Like the 1997 team. this year's squad has its sights on the ultimate prize in Philadelphia -the Final Four. 
Before they get to the City of Brotherly Love, the Irish still have six Big East games remaining, including the sea­son finale against Connecticut. their Achilles Heel the past few years. Then the show moves to the Big East tournament. then hopefully back home to host a first round NCA,\ tournament game. And from there, any­thing can happen, like it always does during March Madness. 
It could be a memorable sea­son. 
But for a group or girls in Michiana. their memories are already set. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Obsercer . 



Yet even Hiley only shoots nine times per game, f1.1r below what a star player usually attempts. With hPr siw. reper­toire of post moves and 84 per­


......a~,...:....,.ofwbat~.........100 ~~~keepsociety~pe. 
u\50 ~whdpyour , fiveh.oursofvoiun.. =timc 
co!IlltlllM); wh<n)<lll!hiru< . . perWOd<lhestandardof 
about it. a,vu,amAmenca.. 
MillionsofP"lpkhave G• ,.;'1 Gctinvolvtdwiththc 
helped ,nakofive pcrcen• 1VCI'l'fC. causa)'01; careabout oftharincom'5and -~-· andgive!lve. 
JMDtVIOUAL GfVIMGfVOLIJHTURIHG CAMPAIGN 
NEWSP.A.1£1\ ~ NO.iGV-lt-fC0-2 COL-




-
page 21 

Monday, February 7, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Calvin ends Saint Mary's win streak 
\Vitb Saturday's win, the By KATIE McVOY Knights improved their \porr\ \X'nre1 record to 10-2 in the MIAA 
and reached a 15-win plateau 
,1\ftN a twti-gamn winning !'or the eighth consecutivo high. thl' Saint Mary's basket­season. ball tnam ·dropp(•d its 11th Calvin wok the lead early in I' 0 11 (' I\ r e ll (' (' the game, but the Belles 
ganw of' thn stayed close through the first 
Calvin 64 

season. half. Early in the second half, Tlw HP!les Saint Mary's 44 Saint Mary's only trailed by foll to Calvin !'our. Col leg'P 64-Midwav through the second 
44. larking all the Plt'ments half Cah;in clinched the game that had gained lhcm tlrnlr with a 20-4 scoring run. Saint onlv t.wo wins of th<~ season. Mary's only scored live points Sai.nl \1ary's shot onlv 24.(, in the last seven minutes of' pI) r (' I' n t ri: t) Ill tIm nr, Id and regulation time. wrr!.' out-rPhou ndPd by tile ''Calvin went on a large Calvin Knights S0-2'). scoring drive and we lost pace 
"W(' playPd as W('l\ as we and couldn't keep the 
did against Kalamazoo and momentum," Matha said "Our OlivPL for thP lirst half' of the shooting and rebounding foll ganH'. ·· J'rnshman forward with that loss or momemum." Kristnn Matha said, "but our Matha l<'d th<' !3Plles with 13 rebounding ,rnd shooting foll points and eight rebounds. apart midwa~· through the .Joining Mat.ha on offense was second half." junior forward Julie Norman 
Calvin t:anw into tlw gan1c with nine poinLs. Defonsive with a s1)cond-plac1• nuik in hdp came from sophomore th P 1\1 IAA. tra iii ng II opt' KPlly Jones who led the team C:ollegt~ by only hall' a game. in rebounds with nine. 
PRESENTING THE MOST I IMPORTANT INSTRUMENT 

W. Bball 
continued from page 24 
home win. 
But moving to 19-2 and remaining undefeated in the Big East at 10-0 wa'in 't as easy as the Irish would have likod. 
The Eagles hung with Irish during the Drst half. Although they were never able to gain the lead. the Eagles tied the game twice and kept the Irish scrambling. 
Bouchard was a menace on the perimeter, hitting 4-7 from 3-point range and leading the Eagles with 17 points. 
"I think they [BC] arc an excellent team," said Irish head coarh Mnrt'et McGraw. "Their guard play is outstand­ing. I think they're among the best in the conference. They played well. They're a great team. They came back." 
Hiley gave her team the final edge they needed to down lhe EaglPs when her l 1-straight points for the Irish increased the lead after a close halftime score. 
"Today our emphasis was get the ball to the block," McGraw said. •· And thi.s was probably the lirst team that we reaJlv knew we had a big man and took advantage ofit." 
When guard Danielle Green her starters were rested think we've peaked yet and scored seven of her 19 points enough because of several that's what we're hoping will in a row, the Irish were up by television timeouts and Eagles happen in the Big East tourna­1 O with just two minutes left to head coach Cathy Inglese ment." play and dashed the Eagles' wasn't satisfied with her Even with four Irish players chances of an upset. reserves' play. scoring in double digits, solid 
"l think the difference in the "I think [the lack of' depth] defense that held the Eagles to second half was we were able was a factor," said Inglese. less than the average confer­to keep our starters on the "We need more from the play­ence team has scored against floor most of the half," ers coming off the bench." the Irish all season and a big McGraw said. "I think that is The Eagles had two players win over a tough conference whv we finished so strong." who played for the entire game rival, McGraw thinks her 
Ilatay, one of four Irish scor­and a third who played for all squad can so better. ers in double digits. added 12 but one minute of the contest. 'Tm looking at Niele's shoot­points and six rebounds for the The Irish win was key for a ing 1-11 -she's not going to Irish, while point guard Niele team who had gone relatively do that very often," said Ivey dished out a game-high untested in the conference McGraw. "She had a great nine assists. before Saturday. floor game today but I think 
Neither team went to their "[Winning] was so important she and Alicia can both score bench as much as they have in to keep our hopes alive for the more." 
previous outings. McGraw felt Big East championship," said Envisioning a squad that has McGraw. "To get that home five players scoring in double court game in the NCAA tour­digits, McGraw is poised to 
nament we need to beat lead her team into the final ranked teams so we're excited stretch of the regular season 



Global Health Initiative and Keough Hall Present: 
to beat a ranked team," before the Big East and NCAA Boston College was the first tournaments in March. 

"Serving the Congo" Co-ed Volleyball 
ranked team to come to the And her players are ready Joyce Center all season. too.

Tournament Fundraiser 
Despite downing the Eagles "I don't think we'll have any

Sunday, February 13, 2000 
-a team that fell to trouble focusing [during the 10am-6pm 
Connecticut by only seven rest of the season]." said points -McGraw is convinced McGraw. "We've got our eye 

Winning teams receive prizes including: 
that her squad can play better. on a goal that's down the road "We're definitely playing and we know we have to take

Burger King, Chili's, Olive Garden, 
with a lot of confidence and I care of the business at hand."

Macri's Deli, Wolfies, T-shirts 
don't think vou've seen our That business is to prepare best game yet I still think we for Pittsburgh, the team's next can play better." said McGraw. opponent, when the Irish

• First 32 teams only! 
• Teams of8 "We're playing well in spurts return to the Joyce Center 
and we've had some players Wednesday.

• 5 or 6 players on the floor '...!.. 

step up but as a team I don't

• 2 1nembers ofeach gender per team 
• 
First 2 rounds are "first to 15" single-elimination; Quarter, Semi, and Finals will be best 2 out of3 games 

• 
Each team will be notified with a time slot for their first game (chosen at random) 

• 
$20 registration donation from each team requested (collected at Dining Hall tables or at the door) 

• 
all donations are to buy beds for an under-funded hospital in the Congo ofAfrica 

• 
further donations also accepted at the door 



• 
Refreshments provided at each game 

• 
.tvlusic 

• 
Pick up/Drop offregistration sheets at North and South Dining Halls Monday-Wednesday (February 7-9) 


• Tables will be available 11-1 and 5-7 

Questions? Call or email Kelly Hoene: 4-1422 Hoene.I or-Dave Bishop: 4-2681 Dbishop 
Tax 
info, 
toll-tree. 

,, 
Tax questions? Call TeleTa.x for recorded information on aboµt 

.. 
150 tax topics, 24 hours a day. 

r...at Dtlpartrnenl of the rru,ury ~-ln1tmal Re\'8"<J05'1\<lee 
http:ttwww,ustreas.oov 

r '  U  WWW  ;$414  
t I  
page 22  The Observer . SPORTS  Monday, February 7, :WOO  

TRACK AND FIELD 

Irish run strong against top colllpetition at Meyo Invite 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Assimmr Spores Edimr 
The Irish nipped tlrn heds of Ami>rica's great track and field athletes, running to tight finishes against veterans from the 1999 NC/\A r.hampionships in this weekend's Meyo Invilatimrnl in the Loftus Center. 
Notre Dame's distance medley relay tP.am of Phil Mishka. Chris Cochran. Tim Kobt"r and Luke Watson raced to a SP.cond-place finish in Friday night's competi­tion. Finishing in nine minutes. 
43.78 ser.onds. Notre Dame was less than a serond behind Alabama, a team which placed fourth ln Lhe NCAA champi­onships a season ago and Sf't a new meet record this weekend. 
"That distance medley was terrific.." hPad trark and t'iP!d coach .Joe Piune said. "That was a gn~at race." 
Notre 0ame posted the third­fastest distance medltw time in the nation this yi>ar, recording provisional qualifying marks for nationals. 
"vVith thi! relay. we all went out and ran 'really well," Cochran said. "We're third in the nation right now. Hopefully that will allow us to get into the NCAa.s." 
Mishka added a top-notch individual performance on Saturday, placing second in the 800-meter run to returning NCi\A champion Derrick Peterson of Missouri. Both ran NCAA qualifying times. ·with Peterson finishing in l :48.26 and Mishka in 1:48.57. 
"I've got to say, I was pretty excited about it," Mishka said. "It's not only an indoors person­al record. but a record overall. 
.. I thought I was going to get him until he went bv me with about 80 meters to g;)," Mishka added. "I tried to throw in another surge at the end. but he's just too good." 
Mishka's time was a career best. 
·· lie ran a marvelous race," Piane said, "And that time would get him into the NCMs." 
Cochran was another two­event star. taking second in the 400-meter run to Alabama's Cori Loving. Cochran's time was just two-hundredths off Bobby Brown ·s school record. 
Other top races among the sprint and middle-distance events were the men's and women's 500-meter run. the women's 400-meter run and the men's 200-meter run. 
Junior Torry v\'ray and senior 

Tim Kober provided a one-two 
punch in lhe 500. 
UThat was the best race I've ever had here," Wray said after winning the 500. "That was a PH [personal rncord I That's the biggest thing I can r.oncentratc on for scoring at tho Big East." 
Junior Carri Lenz placed sec­ond in the women's 500 in a timt> ofl:15.5. 
Sophomore Liz Grow took sec­ond in the 400 to Faye Williams of Etobicoke. Grow's time ol' :34.68 earned her a provbional spot in thP. NCAA champi­onships. 
Tom Gilbert performed well for the nrnn in the 200. 
"Tom Cilbert in the 200 is just impl'oving evel'y week." sprints roach John Millar said. 
f/reshmen Tumcisha King and Kvmia Lovfl am coming on st~ong in the hurdles. ­
"I think Tanrnisha King is starting to come around a little bit in the hurdles and show what she's capable of." Millar said. "Kymia Love -she's starting to show the promise that we'rn hoping to see out of hor." 
King qualified l'or the finals in the 60-meter hurdles. but did not run due to a sore hamstring. 
Th(l Irish did not fare as well in the distanr,e events. with the lone victory coming from Brian Holinka in the 1.000-meter run with a time of 2:27.49. Watson competed in the star-studded Meyo Mile, and met provisional times to qualify for the NCAA championships. 
The 3,000-meter runs saw two new meet and track records set. 
In the men's competition, Alabama's Tim Broe set a new meet and track record with an automatic qualifying NCAA time of 7 :55.41. For the women, for­mer Valparaiso standout Collette Liss finished in 8:58.47. with her nearest competitor 25 seconds behind. 
"We've got to improve the dis­tance end in both the women·s side and the men's side." Piane said. 
The Irish women took home victories in nearly every field event. 
Sophomore Dore DeBartolo established a new Notre Dame record in the 20-pound weight throw. She won the event with her hurl of 56 feet ,wd a half inch. 
"I was really excited about it," DeBartolo said, "Because that was my best performance of my whole career and l hadn't even thrown really well this whole year. It wa-; a huge improvcmP.nt over last week, and it kind of took me by surprise." 

King is making winning a habit, as she once again was vic­torious in the long jump. 
"Tameisha King is gotting very consistent right around 19-2, 19­3," Winsor said. "She's capable or doing much better than just scoring in the Big East." 
Irish pole-vaulters Jamie Volkmer and Natalie llallett earned first and sm:ond in their events. Both tied the school record of 11-0, but Volkmer cleared the bar with fewer attempts to win. 
Senior All-i\merican Jen Engelhardt won the meet in the high jump, despiLe a lower-than­normal mark. 
"Jenni was a little under the weather for this moet, and we also worked hard in bounding and plyometrics this week." Winsor said, "So I wasn't rnally surprised that she didn't jump as well as normal. But she still won the meet." 
i\ngela Patrizio and Krisa Diaz took second and third ln the triple jump for Notre Dame, falling to Missouri's Lindsey Miller. 
For the men. the field events werA not tho strong point. as they did not win a single contest. Quill Redwine did double duty with the high jump and triple jump. while Gilbert competed well in the long jump. 
"In the long jump -again Tom Gilbert did a fine job." Winsor said. "Jlc's doing a grrat job. I think he's getting ready to bust a big one." 
The Irish could not get a top finish in the throwing events. 
"We've got a lot of work to do on the throws," Winsor said. "Our throws quite honestly are not where I think they should be. In the shot put. we've got to work on our technique." 
The track and field team will send a timited number of sprint­ers and field events specialists to the Butler Invitational this week­end. The remainder of the squad will sit out in preparation for the Big Ea'it Invitational. 


Planning to Studv Abroad? 
svracuse has vour ticket! 
ENGLAND * ITALY HONGKONG * SPAIN ZIMBABWE * FRANCE 
SYRACUSE 
STUDY ABROAD 


119 l!;ucrUd Ave/Bo:a D Syraeuu, NY 13:.144 800 :.135 3472 •11abroacl@ayr.edu. http: I /aumweb.ayr.adu/clipa 
Holy Cross: 
The Next Generation 


ANSWER ~ 
THECALL W 

Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 
www.nd.edu/,._vocation 

I• 

Monday, Febrmry 7, 2000 The Obsm•er . TODAY page 23 

--~------~------~--------------------------------------------------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
'W~t:t-l I L.oo 13"-<-1<. ON LP>; 
.5E-l">'c.S'rER l"l. E.i\.t.11.1:. -r: w~ 
Fox TROT 
.A.BSoLUTE.L'Y I CAN
YOU WANT 
To INSTALL 
NOT! I LIKE. PART1T10N 
MY coMPUTE.i;! IT. YOU
WHI\T?! LINUX 
ON TH£ 

THE WA'Y WON'T
\ 
iFRUIT. 
) 
LT IS! \ 

CROSSWORD 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
'-.. --­
P't "I NEEOi"O 
DER, Foc,v~ 0 PAR"E. /'\'< i'E.R.SC t-.l.. FOR 
EVEN NOTICE. 
67 Rev. Roberts 68 Woodstock or 
the Super Bowl 69 TV's Nick at 70 Zero, on a court 71 Down at the 
heels 72 "_bien!" 73 Pants part 
DOWN 
1 Pepsi, for one 2 Unlocks, in 
poetry 3 Umpteen 4 The first "a" in 
aka 5 Richter 6 Funnies 7 In a frenzy 8 Annual 
Pasadena doings 9 "All for one and one for all," e.g. 10 Eggs 11 Civil War soldiers 
Puzzle by Gregory E. Paul 
12 Author 34 Main line from Stanley Gardner the heart 13 Cook, as 35 Kind of tube 

tomatoes 36 Cantankerous
21 Needless 38 Beturbaned
22 Plants securely wise men26 Contract 
42 Not

provision insubordinate
27 Item of neckwear 43 Lukewarm 
28 Space between 49 Eva Peron's pews 
maiden name 29 2:1, e.g. 52 Spiteful 30 Flammable fuel 54 Gorn.![ and 32 Sophia of "Two others Women" 55 Census data 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 

Name ______________________ Address _________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
TOM KEELEY 
To <-Mc.,._._ ANO 
t)O P--\E ~'IO,J'E: 1-\'1 V"aR'( O"JN SQv1RREl­
BILL AMEND 
oPEl'I 
SoRES! SOURCE, 'YUCI<! MOM. 
oPEN
\ 
SOURCE. 
,J 

56 Gad about 62 Where the congregation
57 Shoe stiffener sits
59 Retreat 63 Tickled-pink
60 The sun, in feelingsunnyside up 
61 Vitamin tablet 65 Tackle's supplement teammate 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
A DEPRAVED New WORLD JEFF BEAM 
~, 
' I 
~ ~ 
i 
HOROSCOPE 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 
DAY: Rolf Benirschke, James Spader, 
David Bryan, Garth Brooks, Miguel 
Ferrer, Charles Dickens, Gay Talese 
Happy Birthday: Your sensitive 
ways will be admired by some and 
taken advantage of by others this 
year. Don't leave yourself open for 
abuse. Be discriminating in your 
choice of friends as well as when it 
comes to doing things for others. 
Remember that charity begins at 
home, and \he ones who love you 
will need you most of all this year. 
Your numbers: 2, 17, 28, 34, 37, 45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Unreliable individuals may give you 
false hopes. Do not make promises 
or depend on others for favors. 
Groups or organizations may cost 
you more thanyou can afford. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You 
must direct your energy wisely 
today. Anger will prevail if you 
expect help from others. Plan your 
day thoughtfully, making sure that 
you aren't dependent on others. 
0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
Headaches or skin, bones or teeth 
problems may prevail. Do not over­
load your plate. Rest and relaxation 
is your best bet. Don't overextend 
yourself to make purchases. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Notoriety may not be to your advan­
tage today. Be careful whom you ex­
press your concerns or grievances to. 
Ulterior motives on the part of col­
leagues will set you back. 00000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may 
say things you will regret later if you 
act before you have all the facts. 
Birthday Baby: You have so much insight into what's going on around you that you will probably have a calming affect on others. Your sympathetic nature will win hearts and bring you good fortune throughout your life. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialaslcom, astromate.com.) 
.:l 2000 Univer>al Press Syndicate 
bearn.1@nd.edu 
EUGENIA LAST 
Minor accidents will be frustrating, 
and caution must be taken to avoid 
such dilemmas. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Work with your hands if possible. You need to be able to see concrete results. Children may need your help with assignments. Join a fitness clubs. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Get your domestic chores out of the way. Plan activities that will include the whole family. Unexpected visitors may drop by, so be prepared. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Dis­
ruptions in your home environment are probable if you haven't taken the time to deal with mounting problems. Your partner may be less than will­ing now. 00000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Tension is likely if you haven't taken care of your domestic responsi­bilities. You may want to consider making a residential move. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Friends or relatives may try to inter­fere in your personal life, but if you care about your mate, you will not allow this to happen. 0000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): . You can make money if you concen­trate on your job today. Business trips will pay off and bring you in contact with individuals who may help you at a later date. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Try not to use emotional blackmail on your mate. Odds are it will backfire, leaving you upset and to blame. You can, however, get what you want by being passionate and considerate. 00000 

ACROSS 
1 Deep sleep 5 Reminder of a swordfight 9 Customs 
14 Milky gem 
15 "Catch a Falling Star" singer, 
1958 
16 Plain as day 
17 Telescope part 18 Famous 
19 Word before 
hop or top 
20 Shakespearean play with the clown Touchstone 
23 Do tailoring 
24 Computer giant 
25 U.C.L.A. quarterback, 
perhaps 27 Gave a hoot 31 Hardly a neatnik 33 Cale additive 37 Break in the 
action 39 Have bills 40 Four-star 41 Soap opera set 
in Oakdale 44 Hipbones 45 Mount 
Rushmore pres. 46 Sonnet section 47 Advertising sign 48 Heal 50 Arctic explorer 
Robert 51 City west of Tulsa 53 Reuters 
competitor 55 Met display 58 Faulkner novel 64 Injures with a 
horn 66 British blue blood 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


--~--.....-­
.. 


Tested by the best 
The Irish competed against top competition this weekend at the Meyo Invitational.

PORTS 
page 22 
O
THE 

page 24 BSERVER Monday, February 7, 2000 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

No. 5 Irish dominate paint, ground No. 18 Eagles 
. Leahy, Riley lead Irish to win 
By KERRY SMITH A<si~ranr Sporrs Editor 
When the No. 18 Boston 

... Colleg,'. Eagli,s stepped on the court Saturday to face the No. 5 Irish. they had a 
Notre Dame 72

simple gamf' plan: Boston College 59 contain the paint. Unfortunately for the Eagles. the game plan didn't work. 
Aftrr 40 minutes tir.kcd off the clork. thr Irish wPre on top 72-59 and center Ruth Riley 
and forward Kellev Siemon combined under tho ·basket for almost half' of Notre Dame's points and rebounds. 
Riley scorPd a gamP-high 23 points and Siemon came off the bench t11 record a double ­double with 11 points and a earner-high 14 rebounds to lead the Irish. 
"We knew that [the Irish I

-.. 
were strong and that they were a great team," Eagle cap­tain Cal Bouchard said. "One of our goals was contain the paint. contain penetration and we didn't do that in the first five minutes of the game and we slowly realized we needed to double down a little bit more 
The Irish stepped on the court readv to defend their undefeated conference record. and opened the game with five points from Hiley in the lane and a 7-0 run. 
By the time the Eagles real­ized they needed more pres­sure down low. the Irish had already ignited the spark that propelled them to their school record-tying 15th consecutive season win and 18th straight 
... 
see W. BBALL/page 21 


• Irish take tim1e out from dream season for fans 
The line stretched from under the basket. through the tunnel leading to the Irish locker room. and around toward the women's basket­ball office. 
Scores of fans, mostly pre-teen girls . gathered around the women's basket­ball team. asking frJr auto­graphs or pic­tures of their idols. 
It was 30 minutes after Notre Dame had beaten Boston College 72-59 at the Joyce Center on Saturday afternoon. their 15th victory in a row. The television c,uneras were stored away. the bright lights had been turned off. no reporters were asking ques­tions. This was not a made­for-TV piece about how nice and caring the women arn to the area residents. 
It didn't have to be scripted. 
These were real smilns on the faces of the 12 members of the No. 5 Irish. who were still in their gold home uniforms. Unlike their professional male counterparts, they enjoyed the interaction with the young girls. They were willing to take time and talk with these fans, not just sign their memorabilia with an expressionless, ,.:an't­wait-to-get-homc look on their 

see CASEY/page 20 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Pittsburgh gets revenge at home against Notre Darr1e 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Assistant Spans Edi ror 
Notre Dame's '.'JCAA tournev hopes took a hit Sunday as tho men's basketball team stumbled with a 72-66 loss to Big 
East foe Pittsburgh 72 Pittsburgh on Notre Dame 66 the road. The blue and gold's defeat came at tho hands of a team iL had beaten 

only two weeks before at home -a team hovering near the bottom of the conference stand­ings. 
But the Panthers (10-9, 2-6) showed up demanding more respect than the average base­ment-dweller. Despite their dis­mal record in the league, the Panthers have played all but one of their first eight Big East games against teams in the top half of the conference. 
The Irish led through much of the first half, and went ahead by as many as 11 early in the second period. 
But the Panthers weren't about to let this win slip away from them like it did in narrow losses to undefeated Syracuse and Miami -the second place Big East team. A 3-pointer by senior guard Jarrett Lockhart narrowed the gap to five. 
Then Irish sophomore Troy Murphy scored four straight points to put the Irish ahead 43­34 with 16:20 to play in the game. 
The Panthers came storming back, scoring 15 straight points to turn the tables on the Irish. 
Three different Pittsburgh guards hit closely guarded 3­pointers during the Pitt spurt. Lockhart, junior guard Ricardo Greer and senior guard Jeremy Holmes all hammered in treys in the run to put a nail through Notre Dame's hopes of victory. 
Although the Irish fought back, the Panthers retained their lead the rest of the game. The closest the Irish could get 
was within one at 54-53. after buckets by Murphy and fresh­man guard Mike Monserez. 
But Pitt scored the next five points to take a six-point lead with 5:48 to go. Freshman guard Brandin Knight knocked down a 3-pointer. and sopho­more forward Chris Seabrooks added a lay-up in giving the Panthers the six-point advan­tage. 
Notre Dame worked its way 
see M. BBALL/page 14 
Track

Kentucky vs. Pittsburgh Tuesday, 3:15 p.m. Wednesday, 7 p.m. at Buder
SPORTS 
Friday-Saturday 
ATA 
vs. Nebraska-Omaha Friday, 7:05 p.m. 

at Villanova 
vs. Albion 
Tuesday, 8 p.m. Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. 
GLANCE 





