Shop til ya drop 
Gore, Gore, he's our man 
amazon.com. Scene reviews Internet shopping sites. Read Observer endorses Democratic 
Wednesday
to find out where to get online bargains. 
candidate Al Gore for president. 
Viewpoint . page 8 
NOVEMBER 1, 2000 
HM.!iii OtRECTORY l Scene . page 10-11 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 46 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Jerusalent progrrun canceled due to Middle East violence 
By KATE NAGENGAST Assistant News Fdiror 
Notre Dame's study abroad program in Jerusalem, Israel -renowned for its involve­ment with b<>th Israeli and Palestinian culture -has been cancelled this spring due to heightened violence in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
Located at the Ecumenical Institute for Theological Studies at Tantur, on a hilltop road between Jerusalem and Bethlehem. the program typi­cally accommodated about 15 students from Notre Dame and offered five to six courses per semester at three local institu­tions: Hebrew University, Bethlehem University and the Ratisbonne Institute. However. a committee of both students and facultv who have a solid understanding of the current situation in Israel, announced its cancellation today. 
"We keep returning to the dilemma: if we would have to sequester the students in Tantur, our program of wide­ranging access to both cultures and all three religions would be severely curtailed," said Father David Burrell, director of the Jerusalem program, in a letter that described the rea• sons for the program's cancel­lation to prospective attendees. 
Students who planned to participate in the Jerusalem program were offered two alternatives: participation in another Mediterranean pro­gram in Athens, Greece this spring, and inclusion in the applicant pool for spring 2002 in Jerusalem. 
NEWS ANALYSIS 
"It's just too unpredictable at this time," said Megan Sweeney. a senior in the College of Science who partic­ipated in the Jerusalem pro­gram last spring. "The tension is so high that even if there wasn't physical violence it wouldn't be a good place to be." 
Susan Sheridan, on leave from her position as a profes­sor in Notre Dame's anthropol­ogy department, has been con­ducting research in Jerusalem for the past six years, and liv­ing there as the annual profes­sor at the WF Albright Institute of Archaeological Research since May. She was also a strong supporter of the pro· gram's cancellation this spring. 
"This is a very stressful situ­ation, and I feared for both the physical and emotional safety of the students," said Sheridan. "My concern was that the 
learning experiences gained by this excellent program would be overwhelmed by the pain. turmoil, and at times, terror that the current situation brings." 
"The program is really sec­ondary to what goes on over there in general. It's a shame that the students can't go, but it's a much bigger shame for the people of the country. The emphasis shouldn't be on the Notre Dame students, but the people actually living in Israel and their fears," Sweeney said. 
Nathaniel Marx, a 2000 Notre Dame graduate who studied at Tantur during the spring of 1999, has understood those fears first-hand since 
see JERUSALEM/page 6 



Gore aims to separate from Clinton 
By HELENA PAYNE News Writer 
When Clinton campaigned in 1992, he became a sparkle in the media's eye. But after the Monica Lewinsky scandal, people questioned if Gore will be a 
fa.lien star from Clinton's once glowing admin­istration. 
During the impeachment trial. Gore gradually dis­tanced himself 


from Clinton. Gore They were rarely ever seen together at even major political events. 
South Bend Tribune political writer Jack Colwell said Gore has Colwell. worked "very hard" to sufficiently Government professor David dis -~-------------------, Leege said 
~~~~I~ CAMPAIGN 2000-.,., I~;~~ecc;r:~~ 
s e I f from Clinton. 
"He set out to do that at the Democratic National Convention and has taken the gamble that the dis­tancing will separate him from Clinton's personal problems and give him the best chance to win," said Colwell. 
However, Gore's attempt,; could be in vain for a certain segment of vot­ers who. Colwell said will never be convinced that Gore is a viable can-dictate independent of Clinton. 
"Some voters, of course, will link him with Clinton's problems, no matter how he seeks to distance himself during the campaign," said 

Students (top photo) studying abroad in Jerusalem last year saw various sites including the over­look of the Kidron Valley near Jerusalem. A young boy (bottom photo) dresses in costume to cele­brate Purim, a four-day Jewish holiday. Because of the increasing violence between the Israelis and Palestinians, students will not be able _to attend the Jerusalem pro­gram for the Spring semester. 
. 

photos submitted by 
MARIE CABLE 


from highly partisan Republicans who want to make character the main argument against Gore's campaign. 
"They will not let it die," said Leegc. 
"I think the vice president sent several signals that he was his own man," said Lcege. 
He said Gore has separated him­self and is not interested in doing what many past candidates have done by using the coattails of the incumbent president to enter into the executive ollice. 
"Instead of asking for the support of the president, he has run his own 
see GORE/pag, 4 
Sopho01ore class plans new event 
By LAURA ROMPF 
Assistant News Editor 

Last year, Student Activities cancelled Notre Dame's Sophomore Sibs week­end citing low participa­tion and various eco­nomic factors. This year, the student senate formed the Sophomore Signature Event Committee to create a new tradition for sopho­mores. 
"We have had weekly meetings to decide on a new event and have planned a Sophomore Class Ball, like high school prom revisited or high school prom part II," said sophomore class president Brian Moscona. 
Moscona said the Ball will be held March 31 at the Century Center. 
"There is a beautiful room overlooking the St. Joe River. We will have a dinner for everyone who attends and then a formal dance," Mascona said. 
Moscona said the class is tentatively planning a Spirit Week, which will• include a service pro­ject, leading up to the 
see BALL/page 4 
Wednesday, November 1, 2000

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Nickname, anyone? 
I've decided to start calling myself the "Sexiest Man on Campus." I have done noth­ing to earn this nickname and if you look at my headshot next to this column, you will see its entirely not true. But that doesn't matter. 
Because I think that I am the "Sexiest Man on Campus," everyone should start calling me by this name. 
Hopefully every one who just read that paragraph laughed out loud. It is pretty obvious that I am 

not the "Sexiest Man on Mike Connolly 
Campus" and have done 
nothing to earn this title. 
Now, how many of you think "Mike's Outrageous Editor In Chief Bunch" is a good name for the Notre Dame student section at basketball games? What has the student section done to earn this nickname? Nothing. 
Sure. the students were pretty loud last year and did a great job supporting the learn, but they were far from a "MOB." On top of that, the nickname was not something Notre Dame earned but a nickname the student govern­ment bestowed on the student section. Sorry to break this to everyone, but you don't get to pick your nickname. 
Nobody outside of Notre Dame calls the stu­dent section the MOB. ESPN won't start its television broadcasts panning over the student section and saying "Welcome to South Bend. Ind. for a critical Big East match-up. The MOB is jumping tonight and this game should be a great one." 
They will, however, call the Duke students the "Cameron Crazies" when they broadcast from Durham because the Duke students earned their nickname. The Duke student government didn't have some vote campaign to pick a nickname. 
The Duke students showed up at every game screaming and yelling and intimidating the other team. Overtime, this crazy atmosphere earned the Duke students their nickname. 
Ever heard of the AFROS? Probably not. That was the nickname that the Notre Dame wide receivers gave themselves in the early and mid '90s. Standing for "America's Finest Heceivers on Saturday," the name never really caught on. There were two problems with this nickname: first of all, they weren't the finest receivers on Saturday and second nobody can adopt their own nickname and expect it to stick. 
Maybe someday the Notre Dame student section will earn a nickname for its spirit. But so far the only possible nicknames it has earned is "Bastard Children" or "Waterboys." So dump the "MOB." Show up at the games. Scream your lungs out. Stand behind this team in victory and defeat and someday the Notre Dame student section will earn a nick­name. 
And as far as calling me the "Sexiest Man on Campus," if any of you ladies out there actual­ly believe it, my phone number is on the Viewpoint page. 
The' views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Laura Rompf Laura Kelly Kelly Hager Graphics Liz Zanoni Jose Cuellar 
Sports Production 
Kathleen O'Brien Rachael Protzman Viewpoint Lab Tech Lane Herrington Shannon Bennect 
Th• Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is puhlish,d Monday 1hrough Friday except during exam and vacation pcrtods. The Obscr,,er is a member of ,he As,ociatcd f'rcss. All reproduction righrs arc reserved. 
THIS WEEK IN MICHIANA  
\iVednesday  Thursday  Friday  Saturday  
. Karaoke: "Say what?  . Concert: Notre Dame  . Republican Rally:  . Octoberfest 2000:  
Karaoke," hosted by ND  Symphony Orchestra,  "Republican Rally at the  Featuring the Hank  
Leprechaun Mike Brown;  8 p.m. with pre-concert  Airport," speeches by  Haller Band, 8 p.m.,  
and includes a perfor­ discussion of program  senators John McCain,  DANK Haus, 2651  
mance by Troop NU. Open  music beginning at  T.C. Watts and Rep.  Pipestone Road. Benton  
Karaoke after the show,  7:15 p.m., free admission,  Lindsay Graham; bus  Harbor, call (616) 926­ 
7:30 p.m., New Dalloways  Washington Hall.  leaving main circle at  6652 for more  
Clubhouse, Saint Mary's.  12:45, free to students.  information.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports.



OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Paper files lawsuit against Indiana University 
BLOOMINGTON 
"IU followed the law in all respects." 
The Indianapolis Star filed a lawsuit she said. "If you look at the Public Thursday•with the Marion County Access laws, the opinion is consistent Superior Court against Indiana with IU's actions." University to inspect and copy its Tim Franklin, editor in chief of' The "investigatory findings" surrounding Indianapolis Star. said the newspaper the disciplinary action against and filed the lawsuit after asking the eventual firing of former basketball University for the documents and fil­coach Bob Knight. ing a request with the Indiana Public 
The official complaint filed by The Access counselor. Star claims IU violated Indiana's "We've tried every way imaginable Access to Public Records Act. This act short of a lawsuit," Franklin said. gives individuals and agencies the "This has been a very controversial opportunity to review and copy public Review Regarding Neil Reed issue in the state and readers are very documents. Allegations Concerning The Conduct interested. It's part of our public 
According to The Star's complaint ofCoach Bob Knight' and made subse­responsibility." "IU waived its APRA exemptions when quent public statements about these When JU first looked into Knight's it publicly disclosed significant por­'investigatory proceedings."' actions last spring and again this fall, tions of the 'investigatory findings' Susan Dillman, director of lU media Franklin said IU provided the media through its dissemination of IU's relations, said IU plans to vigorously with detailed information about its 'Summary Report of the Trustee defend the lawsuit. findings. 
BOSTON UNIVERSITY 

UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Alum gives millions to help women 
Students declared ineligible for aid 
An anonymous alumnus donated $26.5 million to the
Nearly 7,000 students nationwide were denied 
University of Southern California for the purpose of
financial aid this year because of past drug convic­
improving the status of women in science and engi­
tions, according to the National Department of 
neering, the university announced Friday. As the Daily
Education. Under the 1998 Higher Education Act, 
Trojan reported, a variety of social factors appear to
which took affect this school year, students convict­
discourage women from entering careers in science
ed of illegal drug offenses were be denied financial 
and engineering. Of the more than 170 faculty mem­
aid. Question 28 on the FAFSA, or the Free 
bers in the School of Engineering, only two arc women.
Application for Federal Student Aid, asks if the stu­
The university plans to use the funds to bring about
dent has ever been convicted of an illegal drug 
greater gender equality in the sciences and engineer­
offense. All students are required to answer 
ing by recruiting female faculty more aggressively, pro­
Question 28 under the Higher Education Act. Less 
viding extra research assistants and establishing schol­
than 1 percent of Boston University financial aid 
arships for undergraduate, graduate and post graduate
applicants either didn't answer the question or 
female students, Vice Provost Joseph llellige said. The
answered yes, said Office of Financial Assistance 
university also intends to encourage women at every
Director Ryan Williams. Only about a dozen students 
step of their education in hopes that more women will
were denied financial aid at BU because of Question 
enter the male-dominated world of the sciences and
28, according to Williams. "It really hasn't been 
engineering. Eleven percent of USC's science profes­
much of an issue," Williams said. Nearly 300,000 
sors and 6 percent of the engineering faculty are
students nationwide have still not answered the 
female, according to the Los Angeles Times. 
question. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeallx:r tlrecast fer daytirn: conditions and high temperatures 
FRONTS;
............. .,,...... 

<D 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. COLO WARM STATIONARY 
p,...,.,,.. 

®© ...... 
Hjgh LDW Shower• R•ln T•1torm1 Flurrtee Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloud 
Via Associalad Pross 


Atlanta 79 58 Las Vegas 84 60 Portland 55 43 Ball,more 59 39 Memphis 83 58 Sacramento 61 48 Boston 45 42 Milwaukee 64 42 St. Louis 67 43 Chicago 71 57 New Yori< 56 44 Tampa 82 61 Houston 83 70 Philadelphia 59 40 WashinlJfon DC 75 54 

Wednesday, November 1, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
NEWS ANALYSIS 
Fighting escalates bet-ween Israelis and Palestinians 
Hear about his experience
In his fi rStappeararu:e h ND 
as a Catholic school teacher
Detore t e 
and coach

student body 
By MARIBEL MOREY 
News Writer 
Palestinian children hurl rocks at Israeli soldiers who retaliate with gunshots while markets are scattered with troops who monitor every movement and apartment buildings lay shattered after bombings. This Holy Land is in the midst of warfare. 
In the mid-1940s, Palestinians were displaced from their homeland in Jerusalem when the Jews claimed the Holy Land and 

Student Workers Needed 
To help assist other students using the temporary DART registration system at the Registration Center, G 184 Hesburgh Library from 
\I, b
November 8 through Decem er I" 
Hours: 9:00 am to 5:00 pm 
Dates: November 8, 9, 10, 14, 15, 16, 20, 21, 28, 29, 30, December 1 
We need student help throughout the day... you pick your time you are available 
Please Contact: Arlene Vogt, Assistant Registrar, I05 Main Building, Registrar's Office 631-6050 
formed Israel after the Second World War. 
"Israel still controls the terri­tory that belongs by right and international law to the Palestinians." said David Burrell. a Holy Cross priest and theology professor who has spent the last two years in Jerusalem. 
"It's wrong to render a group· of people homeless," said Asma Afsaruddin, professor of Arabic and Islamic Studies. 
"The Palestinians have a right to their own homeJand -that was an injustice," Some Israelis. including Shoshana, who wants to be called by only her first name. a bible and Hebrew teacher at Temple Beth-el, believe the Israelis rightfully own the land. 
"Yes. [the PalestiniansJ lived there and us Jews bought the land. We did not steal it from anyone," said Shoshana. 
Basil Hirzalla, a Notre Dame premed student from Jordan questions this. "If they paid for it, what would we be fighting for? Tf there was a clear cut agreement. why has this [dis­pute] gone on for ages?" 
Palestinians still have not lost hope. "It's our land, they came in they raped the women and kicked everyone out." said Hirzalla. "If you had a chance to get your house back, you'd fight for it." 
Tension and fighti'ng have recently escalated between Palestinians and Israelis. "The so-called visit of Ariel Sharon lthe right-wing Israeli opposi­tion leader] to Temple Mount was a cheap political maneuver by their political party. This man provoked this conf1ict by going over there the way he did. The Israelis are loathed to admit it." said Burrell. 
Israelis agree that Jerusalem is their right as Abraham's peo­ple. "This land was promised to Abraham and to all our fathers. Jews lived in Israel through all the years, we never abandoned the land." said Shoshana. In 1967, Israeli leader Mostie Dayan had recognized how holy the sight was to Muslims and had given effective control of the Temple Mount to Muslim religious authority. Sharon's armed visit provoked tensions and fears to surface. 

When Afsaruddin visited Jerusalem this past summer she felt tension between the watchful Israeli troops and the Palestinians in the marketplace. Later while at the Notre Dame Jerusalem center, In Tantur Ecumenical Institute, she was awoken by blaring sounds twice in one week. 
"Israeli soldiers came in to the compound and talked loud­ly into their bull horns, looking for Palestinians in the area. You felt you were in the middle of a war ground," said Afsaruddin. 
With the support of the United States, Israel has more means for defense. "[Israelis] are armed to the teeth. At worst, the Palestinians are throwing stones. [Palestinians] have been met by much harsh­er response," said Afsaruddin. 
Shoshana disagrees and con­tinues to say that the soldiers need to defend themselves when the public does not respect them. "I want you to stand there and let people throw stones at you. Just stand there and let it hit you. The sol­diers need to defend themselves with what they have," said Shoshana. 
"One of the worst things is that the Israeli Security Forces are not only using excess fire power against Palestinians. but also allowing Isr.aeli settlers to indiscriminately kill Palestinian villagers," said Burrell. 
With Palestinian and Israeli 
Win two free season tickets! Pizza 
Question and Answer 
forces at odds for the Holy Land, this tension might appear like a religious war, but it is not. To the Palestinians and the Israelis. they each are trying to recover or defend the same homeland. "Israel does not want to give any more land. It's a dilemma. If all the rocks ran out we would still run after the !Israeli soldiers]. It's about honor, about pride," said Hirzalla. 
"This is· not really a conflict between Israelis and Palestinians. but really a deep. deep conflict within Israeli soci­ety itself with the majority who believe they must share land with Palestinians and those who think God gave them land to them and only them," said Burrell. 
However, Burrell believes that these outbreaks are caused by other factors. In the present time, he believes that Sharon's visit escalated such tensions. 
Though peace is still hopeful, both Israelis and Palestinians are massacred each dav in the middle of warfare. "E~eryone concerned in this wants peace and a normal life. Peace with justice, dignity and honor," said Afsaruddin. "Unless those issues are faced and resolved, peace is not going to be resolved." The land is not just a piece of dirt with a house; it's more than that. It's your past as a Palestinian. your roots that the Israelis deny. 
"There has never been a Palestinian state until now. It's just a myth. It's just a wish," said Shoshana. 
Thursday November 2nd 
LaFortune Ballroom 7:00pm 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November l , 2000 
the University ol Noire Dame Department of Music presents 
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra 
Gore 
continued from page l 
campaign. That's di!Ternnt from I.he 1988 campaign when George 
II. W. Bush made considerable use of Ronald Reagan," said Lcege. 
Since Gore has chosen not to use Clinton in the campaign as frequently as past candidates, he has also lost some benefits that Clinton could have brought to the campaign. 
Some of those benefit..<; are criti­cal swing vote categories. 
"Particularly for African­Americans and women. Clinton h,L'> been a strong mobilizer," said l,ecge. 
Although African-Americans as a group generally vote Dcmorratic, Bush has attempted to appeal to African-Americans and other minority voters through political ads on television. 
Wonrnn have become a key voter group in the 2000 presiden­tial election. 
Initially, Gore had the majority of the female vote, but Bush has been making more appeals to women in his campaign rallies by mentioning his wife, Laura, and his concern for the family and women. 
In addition to Clinton's ability to draw women and African­Americans the economy has grown considerably under his administration. 
"Gore has the difficult task of seeking to be linked with Clinton on the booming economy, not linked to the president's personal woes," said Colwell. 
Colwell said keeping the two aspects of Clinton's presidency has been hard for Gore because of constant references to Clinton's character. 
"Of course the Rush campaign wants to prevent this [separation] with references to the Clinton­Gore administration and refer­ences to honesty," said Colwell. 
Lecge said Gore's nomination of Senator Joe Lieberman for vice president was an effective way to defend his own moral character. Lieberman, who bas been vocal about his Jewish faith and desire to strengthen the United State's morals. was also vocal about Clinton's involvement with Monica Lewinsky. 
"The Bush strategy was to try to attract the moral center," said Lecge. "The Gore people follow(,d a checkmate strategy. 1thought it was a very eflective selection of a vice presidential nomination. It was better than (Bush's selec­tion!." 
Colwell said Gore's nomination was strategic by asserting Gore's ticket is not connected to the Monica Lewinsky scandal. 
"Lieberman, one ()f the first Democrats to harshly criticize Clinton's Monica madness and a senator known for concern for ethics, was no doubt selected in large measure because it would send a message that the Democratic ticket condones no such behavior and is concerned about ethics," said Lcege. 
l lowever, people often point out that Lieberman did not vote for 


Prokofiev. Lieutenant Kije Suite 
Korngold, Cello Concerto, Karen Buranskas, cello 
lfrom the 1947 Film Deception, starring Bette Dovis and CkJvd• Roin:S) 
Weber, Overture lo Der Freischiitz 
Bernstein, Symphonic Dances from West Side Story 

Wednesday, November 8 Friday -Saturday, November 10 -11 at 8 pm 
Sunday, November 12, 2000 at2:30 pm 
Little Theatre 
M8£~
' <;!_ THE ARrS 
~NOllli' DAMI£, IN 

For ticket information contact the Saint M~y•s Box Office at 
284-4626 
Daniel Stowe, conductor 
Thursday, 8pm November 2, 2000 Washington Hall 
Please join us at 

7:15 pm for discussion of the program, including a screening of 
selected scenes from "Deceptionn 


Clinton's impeachment even after criticizing his actions. Leege said that it is possible that Lieberman could be against Clinton's action, but not convinced that they merit­ed his impeachment. 
"That doesn't mean that he exonerated Clinton from failures," said Leege. "A person could foe! that it was guilty of reprehensible behavior but also fell that Clinton didn't do anything [for which he could be] convicted." 
Gore has taken many steps to distance himself from Clinton, including choosing Ueberman as his running mate. However, Gore has also shown there are aspects of the Clinton administration that will help his campaign. 
Although Gore has chosen not to draw on Clinton's persona, he has tried to draw on his accom­plishments. 
Colwell said it is still early to predict the success of Gore's strategies. 
"It's one of those things that perhaps will not be known until after the election," said Colwell. "If Gore loses. he will forever be haunted by the thought that Clinton on the campaign trail could have enabled him to win. If 
Gore wins. most analysis proba-r===~=====~============"c"= bly will be that he was wise to dis­tance himself and that he won on his own." 


Wh1~• Then', Life-· Thtrr', Hop, The Wilson Foundation assists in the development ofprograms of 
treatment, prevention and education for East Africans addicted to alcohol and other drugs. The work ofthe foundation is carried on primarily in areas where there is a presence ofthe Congregation ofHoly Cross. 
Currently 3 graduates ofthe Notre Dame and St. Mary's classes of2000 are giving a year of service in East Africa. Others have made commitments for summer or other vacation times. Course credits have been arranged. 
Learn how you can help and benefit by attending an information session Wednesday, November 1 at the CSC. Fr. Steve Newton, CSC, President and ChiefExecutive Officer will be present, as will others who have been involved. 
See you there, with all the Saints?! TODAY, November 1, 5 PM Center for Social Concerns 
Ball 
continued from page 1 
dance. 

"We are also hoping to give out awards to sopho­mores at the Ball to honor sophomores who excel in both academics and athlet­ics," Mascona said. 
Mascona said the commit­tee reviewed other ideas including a "Sophomore Survivor" which would be a spin-off of the popular tele­vision show. He also said a sophomore class lock-in was considered. 
"We tried to think of an event that would get the most sophomore involved. We want to promote class unity and maximize the par­ticipation. Survivor wouldn't get that many people involved and we were afraid people would not want to participate in the lock-in." 

Mascona said. 
Mascona said the Ball will be formal, where guys can wear tuxedos or a coat and tie. Girls can wear formal dresses comparable to prom dresses. 
"We want to have an event that people will remember. We want to look back on their college years and say 
the  Ball  was  one  of their  
most  memor able  experi­ 
cncPs."  


Go E.ast, Young Man, Young Woman 
Learn about volunteer opportunities with The Wi,son Foundation Bring a Gift of New Hope to East Africa 



ATION 
Wednesday, November 1, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Chemical Ship sinks near France: 
An Italian cargo ship carrying 6,000 tons of chemicals sank Tuesday northwest of the Channel Islands, a day after it sent out dis­tress signals as gale-force winds.lashed France's Atlantic coast. Anti-pollution teams searched the water surrounding the "Ievoli Sun" for potential spills, maritime officials said. A helicopter had evacuated the 14 mem­bers of the crew on Monday. 
Spaniards rally in Madrid: Tens or thousands of Spaniards marched through downtown Madrid on Tuesday to shout their frustration over Basque separatist bombings and shootings blamed for 19 killings this year. Many of the estimated 250,000 marchers demanded punishment for the Basque sepa­ratist group ETA. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Charges dismissed in NJ shooting: 
A judge on Tuesday threw out criminal charges against two state troopers whose 1998 shooting of three minority motorists on the '.\/ew Jersey Turnpike led to the state's racial profiling controversy. Superior Court Judge Andrew J. Smithson said overzealous prosecutors had set up a "minitrial" before the grand jury and violated the troopers' con­stitutional rights. "There's no legal authority in the state ol' New Jersey to justify the state's action," Smithson said. 
Senate passes Everglades project: 
The Senate gave the go-ahead Tuesday for a $7.8 billion project to help the Florida Everglades, one of the largest environmental restoration efforts undertaken by the govern­ment. The Senate passed by voice vote a mea­sure that authorizes $1.4 billion for 10 con­struction and four pilot projects that are expected to take three decades to complete. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Farmer is smothered in corn bin: 
Rescuers worked in vain Tuesday to free a 70-year-old farm worker buried under about 8 feet of corn. Audley Quear was killed while checking a leak on a corn bin. co-workers said. Workers on the farm in Westfield, about 15 miles north of Indianapolis, called 911 early in the afternoon when they were unable to locate Quear. No one had seen the Cicero man for nearly 45 minutes when they found corn strewn on the ground near a 60,000­bushel-capacity bin, said Noblesville Fire Department spokesman Rick Russell. 
Market Watch 1 0/31 

Dow 
10,971.14 +135.37 
]ONES 
CompositeUp; Same: 
Volume:
2;&:,3 415 

NIA 
· AME.X: 909.30 :11Jr~1Mi<t7; ll'f:l•Ji Nasdaq: .H69.93 +178.23 
NYSE: 6(16,f2.MilriW,ttJilil!:Wm'i 
S&P 500: 1429.40 +30.74 TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURIIT  %CHANGE  $GAIN  PRICE  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  .12.10  ,5.BI  53.88  
WORLDCOM INC (WCOM)  -4.52  -1.12  23.75  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  unch  unch  4S.ml  
MICROSOFT CORI' (MSFT)  -0.26  -0. 18  68.88  
NASDAQ 100 SHAR (QQQ)  ,6.43  ,4.93  H!.70  

TAIWAN 

Associated Press 
TAIPEI 

A Singapore Airlines jumbo jet speeding down a runway in darkness and rain slammed into an object before takeoff for Los Angeles and burst into flames Tuesday, scattering fiery wreckage across the tarmac. At least 65 people were killed and dozens more were injured, a Taiwanese official said. 
It wasn't immediately clear what Flight SQ006 hit, but the collision wreaked havoc on the plane: Video footage showed the Boeing 747­400 spewing flames and 
thick black smoke despite the heavy rain. Afterward, parts of the blue-and­white fuselage were badly charred, with a gaping hole in the roof of the for­ward section. 
Airline spokesman Rick Clements said in Singapore that 4 7 U.S. citizens and 55 Taiwanese were among the passengers. A full breakdown of those aboard was not released. 
"It felt like we bumped into something huge," said Doug Villermin, 33, of New Iberia, La., who was stand­ing outside the Chang Gung Memorial Hospital. wrapped ·in a hospital gown and smoking a ciga• rette. "It looked like the front end just fell off. From there, it just started to fall apart. I ran to the escape hatch with the stewardess butwe couldn't get it open. Two feet away from me, I saw flames. 
"Everyone was just pan­icking," he said. "I tried to open the escape hatch on the top just a slit and saw a lot of smoke. The fumes were just incredible. But eventually we got it open. ... We were just all so scared it was going to blow up." 
It was Singapore Airlines' first major acci­dent in 28 years of opera• tion, and it came in nasty weather: A typhoon pack­ing 90 mph winds was whirling off Taiwan's southern coast Tuesday. lashing the island with rain and prompting offi­cials to set up disaster relief centers. 
Taiwanese aviation offi­cial Billy K.C. Chang said that in addition to the 65 kiUed, 84 people were injured and 30 were unac­counted for. 
The aborted takeoff occurred at 11 :18 p.m. Minutes later, ambulances and rescue vehicles crowd­ed the wet tarmac, lights flashing. Passangers were quickly rushed to the emergency room. 

Reporter wounded in Gaza Strip 
was hit. one Palestinian dead and another
Assodated Press 
According to the army, Wedemen critically injured, hospital officials GAZA CITY was caught in the crossfire when said in Gaza. 
A correspondent for Cable News Palestinians fired machine guns and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat Network was shot in the back anti-tank missiles at Israeli soldiers visited Wedeman at the hospital in Tuesday while covering clashes who returned fire. Gaza. between Israelis and Palestinians in "We were caught in a gun battle CNN reported that Wedeman was the Gaza Strip. and its hard to say what exactly the filming an Israeli bunker before he 
Ben Wedeman, 41, the CNN sources of fire were," Wedeman told was shot. The Israeli army bureau chief in Cairo. was in stable reporters. There was "a large explo­spokesman said Wedeman was hit condition after a bullet entered his sion near me so I decided it was time while on the Palestinian side or back and came out his side, officials to leave. and it was in the process of somewhere in between the two sides. at the Shifa hospital in Gaza said. getting oIT the ground to begin run­The army statement said Israeli sol­
Wedeman was covering the fight­ning away from the area that I got diers do not target reporters. ing at the Kami crossing between hit," he said. CNN reported that Wedeman Israel and the Gaza Strip when he Intense fighting at the crossing left injuries were not life-threatening. 

page G Wednesday, November I, 2000
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Saint Mary's students voice concerns over environment 
By AMY GREENE 
New, Writer 
Saint Mary's is becoming more earth-friendly. 
In an effort to bring the College up to speed with other colleges and universities. the campus' Environmental Coalition is making efforts to ensure that pr_oper recycling procedures are used at Saint Mary's. 
"Hight now we are lagging behind other colleges," said Melissa McClure, a member of the Environmental Coalition. 
Jerusalelll 
continued from page I 
moving to Ramallah. a 
Palestinian town in the West 
Bank just North of Jerusalem. 
Marx returned to Israel in 
August to work as a public 
relations and program devel­
opmcn t volunteer with tho 
Union of Palestinian Medical 
Relief Committees. 
"Tantur is a very safe place and what little violence there has been over the past few_ years has been localized in very predictable places, but sadly I feel the situation is becoming much less pre­dictable," said Marx. "Israeli tanks and helicopters [sur­round I Palestinian towns, ready to bombard civilians who have become frustrated with a peace process that has brought nothing but more set­tlements, more restrictions on movement, more house demo­litions and more humiliation." 
"Lately, Tantur seems to be the perfect place to see what is happening here," he said. "But I won't deny for a moment that it is a very scary thing to see." 
Marie Cable, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters who studied in Jerusalem last spring agreed. "It's a fairly volatile place and in terms of what I see right now, the pro­gram is probably better off not happening," she said. "But l can hardly imagine what I would foe! if I was supposed to go and had been denied. It was probably the best thing I've done with my life." 
Burrell said he understood the students' disappointment. 
"I feel terrible about it, but we have to bow to reality and sometimes it's good for American's to know we can't !ix everything," he said. 
The Jerusalem program did, however, provide a unique perspective on the conflicl. While attending classes at throe local institutions, Notre Dame students studied with Palestinian, Israeli and Arab students. and livod with schol­ars of countless faiths to dis­
fyf~~
onlyat --=-.~ 
Sminutes~ 
from OU"l"POIIT Camnus 1•Nif
t' Compf,f/lIW t,, ,_.,
_ 

Call 259-1000 for more details 
Aluminum and paper recycling is currently offered at the College, but the Environmental Coalition does not believe these services are enough. 
"Last year the college pur­chased huge pop machines that distribute plastic bottles," McClure said. "Sure, it's nice to have the convenience of having bottle that can be resealed, but the plastic bottles should not be sold if there is no place to recycle them." 
The lack of glass and plastic recycling receptacles on campus is of concern to the group, which advocates that these materials 
cuss modern issues at Tantur. 
"The Tantur program pro­vides a rich studv in the cul­t-ure and history of a complex region of the world, important in shaping the course of human evolution. the develop­ment of complex civilizations and the philosophies of three major faith traditions," said Sheridan. "By placing Notre Dame students jn classes at (three local universities! par­ticipants learn this area from a variety of perspectives." 
"No matter how many times you can read it in a book, when you see people experi­encing these things it changes everything," said Cable. "It's a whole new way to experience international relations and government, religion and phi­losophy ... you name it. It's alive there and it has been for thousands of years." 
Even students like Cable and Sweeney -who have had phe­nomenal experiences through the Jerusalem program -saw the need for its cancellation this spring. 
"We took counsel of students who have been there the past two years, as well as many people on the ground [in Israel currently]," said Burrell. "I was especially gratified by the good judgement shown by our students, and the care and concern they have exhibited for their friends there." 
(Qpy SHOP 
Lafortune Student Center University of Notre Dame 
Phone 631-COPY 

Monday -Thursday: 7:30 am to Midnight Friday: 7:30 am to 7:00 pm Saturday: Noon to 6:00 pm • Sunday: Noon to Midnight 
You 
Deserve 
Our 

Very Best! 

Copyright 2000 • All Rights Reserved • I 1/00 
should not be distributed on mental awareness on campus. campus until arrangements are "There was a petition sent out made to properly recycle them. last year of whether to increase 
"Until plas­ recycling," said  
tic and glass  Teresa Lorenz,  
receptacles are placed on campus, plas­ "Right now we are lagging behind other colleges."  president of the Environmental Coalition,  
tic and glass  Teresa Lorenz.  
should not be  Melissa McClure  "Over 300 sig­ 
distrib u t e d .  member of Environmental Coali6on  natures  were  
Right now we  collected so we  
are just con- saw there was a  

tributing more to the already definite interest." overflowing landlills," McClure Lorenz said both students and said. faculty showed support this year 
Some measures were taken to increase environmental last year to increase environ-action. Paper and aluminum 
SCHOOL OF THE AMERICAS, OR SCHOOL OF ASSASSINS? 
A group from Notre Dame will be travelling to the School of the Americas at Ft. Benning, GA the weekend of November 17-19 to attend a vigil and protest in honor of the thousands who have been tortured, murdered and "disappeared" at the hands of SOA graduates. Information sessions for the trip will be held on: 
Wednesday, November 1 9 p.m. CSC Classroom 
And 

Monday, November 6 
5:30 p.m. CSC Classroom 
Questions? Please contact Rachel Soltis at So1tis.1@nd.edu 
This trip is sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. 

SOCIAL CONCERNS 

Count:On Us for Accurac 
receptacles are currently located in all the residence halls and some administration buildings, but Lorenz bclievBs thB college needs to expand by adopting glass and plastic recycling. 
"As a Catholic college promot­ing Christian values, one would think there would be more envi­ronmental support," said Lorenz. "We need the support of the stu­dents and the college to provide momentum so we can increase our environmental action and progress." she added. 
Lorenz will meet with the Board of Governance to discuss the issue further this week. 

As professionals, The Copy Shop in the Lafortune Student Center will provide you with high-quality documents. We pride our.selves on being masters of accuracy. Whether you have manuals. brochures. or other copy projects, yon can be sure of receiving the highest level of accuracy for your dollar. We' II show you what accuracy is all ahout! 
High Volume Copying & Printing Color Copying, Scanning & Printing Binding I Tabs I laminating I Fax Service Newsletters/ Reports/ Business Cards Desktop Publishing Service 
FREE PICK-UP & DELIVERY! Quality Copies, Quickly!'" 
www.CopyShopNO.com We Accept
"'~t~) 

Wednesday, November 1, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Sikkink: Catholic schools foster healthy environ01ent 
socially involved in the communi­active in the community," said By HELENA PAYNE 
ty, according to a recent study by Sikkink. · News Writer 
David Sikkink, assistant professor Sikkink said that this attitude is of sociology in the University. due to differences in the outlooksCatholic school<; foster an envi­"The Catholic school [parents] on society by various churches.
ronment that makes parents 
are the ones that are extremely He said tlic tradition of Catholic more likely to get politically and 
DO SOMETHING DIFFERENT!! 
The Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business announces 
ETHICS COURSES FOR SPRING 2001 
Sophomore Course (BA 241) Introduction to Business Ethics No prerequisite Times: MWF 10:40-11:30 (Fr. Doyle), MWF 1 :55-2:45 (B. Fremgen), or TTh 2:00-3:15 (Fr. Williams) (January 17-February 19) 
This course is designed to give the student an introduction to the central questions and fundamental character of ethics and morality. The course is focused on a discussion of ethical theories which can help guide the student's problem-solving in ethical situations they will encounter in business. Ethical dilemmas faced by business persons as portrayed in films will be integrated into the class for purposes ofdiscussion and analysis. 
Junior Course (BA 341) Topics in Business Ethics No prerequisite Times: MWF 10:40-11 :30 (G. Enderle), MWF 1 :55-2:45 (K. Piskaldo), or TTh 12:30-l:45 (B. Regan) (February 20 -March 28) 
Students will use cases to analyze ethical problems in the business disciplines including accounting, management, marketing, finance, and MIS. The student will be expected to apply and integrate the knowledge obtained from other courses taken as a business major. 
Senior Course (BA 441) Business Ethics: Field Project No prerequisite Times: Six sections available! Please see DART book for available times 
(B. Fremgen, J. McManus) (January 16-May 3) 

The senior field project in ethics is designed to give the student practical volunteer experience in a social service setting. 
Each of the first two one-hour credit courses (241 and 341) will meet for 5 weeks. They will run continuously after each other. The third one-hour credit course (441) will meet semi­. weekly for the duration of the semester. 
*"'For more information call Professor Bonnie Fremgen at 631-6685 
social teaching and a universal focus, however, promotes more activism among parents of chil­dren in Catholic schools. Sikkink said the parish structure of the Catholic Church is also effective for creating a community-based commitment to participation. He contrasted the parish structure with the more organizational structure of other groups within communities, religious or politi­cal. The parish structure "creates avenues for Catholic parents to mobilize beyond their school and into the community," said 
Sikkink. 
"They generate a lot of parental involvement," said 
Sikkink. 
Some parochial schools, how­
ever, do not promote community 
involvement. From research of 
different types of public and pri­
vate schools, Sikkink found that 
while Catholic schools set up a 
model for community involve­
ment, many Fundamentalist 
schools have a more isolationist 
mindset. 
"They are more likely to wrap 
their school and church and fam­
ilies in a bundle and to be some­
what suspicious ofthe world," 
said Sikkink. 
While Sikkink's most recent 
research focuses on the effects of 
schools on parents' involvement, he said he is conducting another study on the correlation between schools and student involvement in the community. So far, he said he has found the same theory that students in Catholic schools are more active. 
'This is institutionalized in the Catholic schools," said Sikkinnk 
Sikkink said that the Notre Dame student body provides a strong example based on the number of students who are active around the community or politically involved. 
"I think they are much more service-oriented here," he said. 
Sikkink conducted this study as part of his dissertation after he began to notice trends among parental activism and the schools their children attended. 
"I've always been interested in issues of religion, politics and education," said Sikkink, also a fellow in Notre Dame's Program on the Social Organization of Schools. 
Saturday, he will discuss his studies in a lecture titled "Are Private Schools Privatizing? Schooling Organization and Civic Participation" in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. The lecture is part of the fourth annual Notre Dame Institute for Educational Initiatives conference. 

wash a load of laundry on us! 
\ all you have to do is sign up at lafun 
ticket office for a washing and adrying time slot (each 1hour 
JEFFREY A. FRANKEL 
John F. Kennedy School of Government Harvard University 
"Economic Globalization, the WTO, the IMF, and the Syndrome of Undifferentiated Criticism" 
THE PUBLIC IS WELCOME TO ATTEND FOR INFORMA'l'ION: 631.3277 
VIEWPOINT 
f"'\LHE 

page 8 VfiSERVER Wednesday, November l, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Norccen Gillespie  Tim Lane  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANACER  
Christine Kraly  Brian Kessler  

NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Martingly VIF.WP0INT EDITOR, Lila Haughey Srous EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR, Amanda Greco SAINT MARv's EDITOR, Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Pat Peters Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR, Adam Turncr Col'ITROIJ.ER: Bob Woods G!W'HICS EDITOR, Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENEIW. INF0.............. 631-7471 FAX... ....................................631-6927 Al>VERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
c:,bscrvcr@darwm.cc.nd.cdu EDITOR IN CHIF.F. ...............................631-4542 MANAGING EmmRIAssT. ME .................... 631-454I BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS........................................ ..................631-5323 
obs,,rver.obsn<CWs. I@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.......................................... .......631-5303 ob,,,rvcr.vicwpoint. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS.. .....................................................631-4543 
observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARYS.................... .........................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................ .631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visir our Web sire at http:llobservrr.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as wdl as carroons, reviews and breaking news from the Associared Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-m-the 
movics/mwic for 
minure foreca.;ts 

weekly srudent revi<CWs 
advertise for policies 

online reatures for spe­
and rares of prinr ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet th" editors and 
Augusr 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The ObserY<Cr is the independent, daily n=paper published in prim and online by the srudenrs of the University ofNocre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Colleg<,. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administr.stion ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on concen1. 
The news is reporc<,d as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Ediwr, As.sis1am Managing Editor and deparcment editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Vi<CWpoint space is available ro all readers. The frtt expression ofall opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. Leners to rhe Ediror must be signed and musr include contocr information. 
Qu.htiom regarding Obmwrpolici,s ,hou.l,;I ht dirtct­td to Editor m ChiefMil,, Connolly. 
Observer endorses Al Gore in 2000 
The 2000 presidential election offers to protect seniors from abject poverty. major candidates with slightly differing Gore's plan will continue the safety plans to reform similar issues. While net of Social Security and encourage neither front-running candidate, Americans to invest wisely for their Democrat Al Gore and Hepublican retirement. Pulling money out of the George W. Bush, Social Security sys­offers a perfect solu­tem to be invested tion for America, Oifhe individually in par­
userver

The Observer urges ticular higher yield its readers to elect investment plans, as Gore as the 43rd proposed by Bush, president of the only encourages 
Editorial 
United States. 
In the long term. Gore's campaign promises will be bet­ter for America. Although Bush's broad tax cuts and government cut backs may improve America in the short term and help the economy today, Gore's smaller tax cut and plans to pay down the national debt will aid America more in the long run. 
The spending of the government sur­plus is one of thf': most important issues in this campaign. Both candidates believe the surplus will exist for many years. Unfortunately. the only people certain of this surplus are the two can­didates. 
Bush proposes that most of the sur­plus be used for a broad tax cut. Gore plans to reduce the national debt with the surplus and still give Americans a small tax cut. 
While Bush's tax cut will give America immediate benefits, paying down the debt will result in benefits in the future. The benefits of a broad tax cut today could haunt America down the road; good economic times will not last forever. 
Gore's plan to reduce the national debt in times of plenty to guard against problems when the economy takes a downturn is the best plan for the ·future of America. 
The interest accrued on the national debt drains Social Security which many Americans will turn to for retirement. Social Security, however, does not exist to provide Americans with a retirement fund. It is instead a safety net designed Americans to rely on 
the government for their retirement and could threaten the safety net that Social Security can pro­vide in the next 20 years. 
While Gore's less risky approach to reforming Social Security is appropri­ate, his plans to improve public schools may not go far enough. Schools must be held accountable for poor perfor­mances, but Gore's plan does not implement specific standards or conse­quences for failing schools. 
Schools must be evaluated on their ability to educate students and provide an effective learning environment. Neither standardized testing nor pulling money from the public schools to give to private schools will solve these problems. The failure of the pub­lic school system is a more complicated problem than either candidate is will­ing to admit. Only an effective partner­ship among the government, parents. teachers and students can improve the quality of American education. 
The rising cost of higher education must be addressed by the next presi­dent. Gore will expand President Bill Clinton's plan and grant each family a $10,000 tax credit if they have students enrolled il1 college. Gore would be wise to adopt Bush's financial aid plan for lower income families as well. College should become more affordable for all families regardless of income. 
While both Gore and Bush appear to be adamant supporters of campaign finance reform. the electorate should urge whoever is elected to pursue this promise vigorously. Neither Bush nor 
Gore have set forth clear plans for 
campgain finance reform. 
Gore's record of campaign finance violations could lead voters to believe that he may not be serious about his desire to reform campaign finance. America's increasing support of third party candidate Ralph Nader is proof that Americans, particularly those in Generations X and Y, are becoming increasingly disillusioned with the cor• ruption in American politics. 
Establishing a bi-partisan plan to take the corruption out of Washington will be an issue that the 43rd president must address; campaign finance reform is the place to start. Gore would be well-advised to make this a priority entering his presidential term. 
While a candidate's position on the issues is important, his ability to imple­ment legislation and push for reform are equally important. 
As a senator and vice president. he has a wealth of hands-on experience in dealing with policy issues and creating effective programs. Bush's limited experience as Texas governor has not prepared him to make the critical deci­sions necessary for the executive office. 
Gore's experience, however, must be tempered with honesty. He should learn from the mistakes of his prede­cessor and understand that his propen­sity for exaggeration undermines the creditability essential for leadership. 
The close nature of the presidential race shows that Americans believe both Republicans and Democrats have intelligent ideas for America. Gore should adopt a bi-partisan approach to politics to forge compromises and get things done with a likely Republican congress. By avoiding partisan grid­lock, Gore can implement policies to ensure a strong future for America. 
The Observer editorial board sup­ports Al Gore for president by a 5-4 vote. The dissenting votes were split evenly between Bush and Nader. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Irish inspire hope for Scott 
I am writing on he half of the article written by Bob Davie in your Oct. 24, issue regarding Scott Delgadillo and his fight against leukemia. 
I have the great honor and pleasure of knowing this fine young man and his family as I am one of his nurses at San Diego Children's Hospital. Scott has truly been an inspiration to me as well as to the numerous other young chil­dren who are afflicted with cancer at the hospital. His attitude and outlook on beating cancer are among nothing I have ever seen in my eight years of pediatric oncology nursing. He truly is a remarkable young man and I know his trip to Notre Dame this past September was amazing for him. 
I, like Scott, am a huge fan of Notre Dame football and we both talk about the games at the hospital whenever I see him. Upon his return from South Bend, he could not stop talking about his experiences there and how it changed him as well as touched him dearly. I had the privilege of seeing the tape when he spoke at the pep rally and it truly brought me to tears. I want to say thank you to the University as a whole for treating Scott and his family like royalty and especially to Bob Davie and the entire Notre Dame football team/program. I have been watching ND football for years and I would have to say that there truly is something spe­cial about Notre Dame. Hopefully Scott will be in the stands rooting the team on to victory when they come out to LA to play USC. I will be there and will be very proud to show my support for such a wonderful school. football program and coach! 
Meredeth McNamara 
pediatric c:,ncology nurse Children's Hospical, San Diego Oct. 31, 2000 

DILBERT 
I NEED A NEW JOB 
WITHIN THE 
COMPANY BEFORE THE WINDOW 5HUT5. 


E
0 
t!u 
1: 
CATBERT IS ALREAD'( UP f TO "O." NEXT !'ii WEEK HE GETS • 
~ 

/)\N "S ." WHAT'S HE ! 5PE.LLING? 1 ) ~ c 
C> 
~ 

SCOTT ADAMS 
&..._;;11111-i..___..1..L-..;:a..~-~ 
HE WOULDN'T 
SAY, BUT IT STARTS WITH 
AN "L ." 
j 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Politics are about as exciting as war and quite as dangerous. In war you can only be killed once, but in politics many times." 
Winston Churchill former British Prime Minister 



VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Wednesday, November I, 2000 BSERVER page 9 
Commercial campa1gn1ng 
Well. it's that time of year again. Frightening-looking people everywhere go from house to house, knocking on people's doors and demanding that those within give them something. No. I'm not talking about [ lalloween and cute kids in costumes asking for candy. I'm talking about election season and scary politicians in 
suits asking for votes. 
This was the first election I ever voted in. (I say "was" because I already voted over fall break, like a good girL) I have to say, I was very unimpressed. I voted in my home state, Oregon, which means that I didn't know about or have an actual opinion on anything on my ballot other than the presidential elec­tion. which I really only marginally had an 
Marlayna Soenneker 
Here we go 
again 
opinion on. Everything else I just asked my dad about. It wasn't that independent and democratic a moment for me. 
I also got my wisdom teeth out over break. I could say what you expect me to say, which is that voting was more painful than get­ting my teeth out, but that would be lying. Nothing I've ever done has been as painful as getting my teeth out. I spent three days lying on the couch after that. and l only got up on day four because I had to come back here. 
Those three days on the couch were, according to the grand plan I worked out before going home, supposed to be spent doing lots of homework. When I woke up after my surgery, however, I realized that I had been a very nai:ve college student, and that I wasn't really going to get anything done within the next three days or possibly ever again. 
So I spent that time well. I watched TV for about eight hours a day. We got cable recently, which really just meant that it took longer for me to resign myself to the fact that the only things on were talk shows and soap operas. And political commercials. I lundreds and hundreds of political commercials from which I learned the following. 
There are four types of political commercials: those for a per­son. those against a person, those for a ballot measure and those against a ballot measure. Political commercials for a person are apparently required to use children. The~e are always several shots of the person decisively signing something with a large pen as positive words about them flash across the screen. Sometimes the person is signing something while surrounded by kids. 
Then there will be a shot or two of some hard-working, middle class people who, by the look of serious concentration and integri­ty on their faces, clearly show their support for the candidate. They may be surrounded by children. Finally, there is a ten sec­ond soundbyte from the candidate, who is wearing down-to­earth, comfortable clothes and looking very concerned about all the people they have paid to be in their commercial. They say something like, "I like you, vote for me," and the commercial ends. 
Second, there are anti-people commercials. These are always a risky political move, because you don't want the voter to think you are a big meanie for saying nasty things about your opponent. Usually this kind of commercial ends up sounding a lot like a doc­tor on TV announcing a death to a family. The person in the com­mercial looks very solemn and a little sad, and one almost expects to hear them say something like, 'Tm very sorry and I wish I didn't have to be the one to tell you, Mr. Voter, but my opponent is a scumbag." 
This year, in my state, there weren't many commercials for bal­lot measures. I guess their makers decided they were all either good enough to stand on their own or they decided the measure wasn't really the sort of thing they wanted to talk about in public, like our Measure 9 which was yet another attempt by some wack­os to require everyone to hate gay people. I never saw any com­mercials for that. I guess it took all the sneaky jerks' courage to write the thing -they didn't want to have to publicly acknowl­edge it, too. 
Enough bitterness. Commercials against measures generally involve a lot of kids, too. But these are unhappy kids. They involve old people, too, and they are also unhappy. Basically these com­mercials try to imply thatthe measure will legalize raping and murdering children in public school'> and beating old people in nursing homes. 
Having read my guide to political commercials, you should now be able to tell what type of commercial you are being subjected to, even if you mute the television. This will, of course, make you a better informed voter when you fill out your ballot in the next couple weeks. Yes. this guide is all you really need, besides your parents' e-mails telling you exactly how to vote, of course. 
Marlayna Soenneker is a sophomore psychology major. Her column appears every other Wednesday. The i,iews expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Service gains respect for ND in the community 
I am Dennis Sterosky, class of'62, past president of the Notre Dame Club of New Mexico, communi­ty service coordinator for the club and a practicing CPA for the last 25 years in Albuquerque, New Mexico. At the request of Brother Mathias Barrett (Brothers of the Good Shepherd), some ND alumni and I helped establish Barrett House for homeless women and children in Albuquerque. Our goal is to represent the University of Notre Dame and its ideals in the Southwest. 
The leadership of the Club has been concerned with contributing to the community where we live and building contacts between the Southwest and its culture and the University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame professes to be the premier Catholic university in the nation. It is my belief that words alone are not enough but actions actually convey the message and the mission of the University of Notre Dame. There is no place on the campus or within the alumni setup that portrays this better than the Summer Service Projects. 
Over ten years ago, I had the opportunity to speak with the director of the Center of Social Concerns. Father Don McNeil!. CSC and I heard about the Summer Service Projects. Our alumni club decided to participate here in Albuquerque. The first student spent his summer working with the Brothers at the Good Shepherd Center. We have had a student working at the Good Shepherd Center for the past ten years. 
For five years, our Club. which is a "C" club (150-349 grads in the area), has been able to pro­vide projects for four individuals each year. They have worked at Barrett House, Dismas House, Healthcare for the Homeless, Good Shepherd Center and Industries for the Blind. They have left a wonderful impression of Notre Dame on our community. 
Our cluh's main fundraiser, a golf outing, pro­vides the funds for the SSP projects. The impact of this service is universally recognized throughout Albuquerque and the surrounding communities. Many of our chiefsupporters and fund-raisers are not connected with Notre Dame but admire the program and admire what the young people do. This past year. over a quarter ofour sponsors came from a client of my office, a Notre Dame per­son at heart, but a graduate of the University of San Francisco. 
When I think of Notre Dame. there are few things that inspire me at the University more than the Center for Social Concerns. I have had the pleasure over the last 10-plus years of working with Father Don McNeil! and Sue Cunningham of the Center. Both my wife and I believe that the ideals that are spoken of so often at Notre Dame, are best represented in Albuquerque. on campus, and throughout the United States by what the Center for Social Concerns has done under the leadership of Father Don McNeill. Sure, I am proud of the football team and many other things that Notre Dame does. but the true mission of Notre Dame is represented by the Center for Social Concerns. 
It was through Don McNeill's good graces and a wonderful benefactor in New Mexico that we were also able to establish a service project connected with ACCION, a micro-lender, with its establish­ments in New York, Chicago, San Antonio, Albuquerque. and San Diego. This provides mean­ingful community service internships to business students. 
I take pride in discussing the role of the students with my business associates in our community. I have learned that the Summer Service Program doesn't stop when the student graduates. Students may go into post-grad service roles like Jesuit Volunteers, Holy Cross Associates or the Alliance for Catholic Education. and then go into the busi­ness world and continue to work to find ways to incorporate the social aspects of their community with the Christian message that Notre Dame embodies. 
I have indicated what the CSC means to me per­sonally. It is one building that I migrate to when I come back to campus. For the Club here in Albuquerque, it is a rallying point, a draw for the broadest participation of our members. We are many miles from the University and sometimes feel out of the main stream. But when it comes to our Summer Service Projects, it brings Notre Dame people together at all levels. 
Notre Dame's CSC and the resulting Summer Service Projects have done a great job of repre­senting the true image of Notre Dame in our com­munity. When the name Notre Dame comes up in conversation, it is not only the football program that is talked about but the impact Notre Dame students have had over the last several years with­in the larger community. 
Dennis Sterosky 
Class of'62 Oct.31.2000 
-·--­

I N 
E T 
page 10 Wednesday, November I, 2000 
Have credit card, will shop online the pros 
Amazon, CDNOW and Barnes & Noble compete for music, literature fans 
By KATE STEER 
Scene Wrirer 
With the explosion of Internet services, online shopping has become wildly popular and wide­spread. Today people can shop for virtually any­thing without leaving home, from groceries to cloth­ing to entertainment to cars. 
Perhaps the most popular genre of online shop­ping is music and video shopping. There are count­less siles devoted to bands. actors and movies, and most or them feed into any one of the numerous related shopping sites. 
One of the first sites for CD buy­ers was www.amazon.com. 
ing practically everything imagin­
able. 
Following on the heels of Amazon.corn's success, www.CDNOW.com devel­oped a music-centered site offering the newest releases and marketing itself to a younger crowd. 
Bookstore giant Barnes & Noble has established a site -www.barnesandnoble.com -for book-lovers to not only browse the books available in the store, but to purchase online. Since most of the retail stores have expanded to include video and music sales, the web site also offers these items. 
With the popularity and success of each of these sites, the question arises for eager shoppers: which one of these three sites is the best one to use? 
Merchandise 
CDNOW specializes in music, but also offers video, DVD, laser discs, apparel and Custom CDs. Custom CDs are priced slightly higher than regular CDs, and contain tracks that the buyer selects.. 
Amazon is most well-known for their music and video selections. but the site also markets a huge range of other items. The categories of merchandise include electronics, kitchenware, camera and 

photo, toys, software, computer and video games, tools and hardware, lawn and patio, and new cars. 
Barnes & Noble offers the items available in the retail stores, including books, music and video. and has expanded selections to include college text­books, out-of-print books, software, prints and posters and magazine subscriptions. 
Searchability 

CDNOW's search categories include artist name, album name, song name, record label, video name, actor and director. The search is easv to use and produces relevant results. · 
The site also offers a browse option. allowing cus­
tomers to 
select a catc­

go ry of
Amazon.com began as a relatively 
music, a
small service, selling only music, 
movie genre
videos and books. Now the site is 
or a letter of
a hub of Internet commerce, sell­
the alphabet
Photo courtesy o, Amazon.com to browse. Music is not always easy to classify. however, so the browse option is less useful. Amazon's search format is similar to that of CDNOW. Customers can search or browse using any of the categories of merchandise available. Along with the results of a search come recom­mendations in a section titled "Customers who bought this title also bought..." This feature is help­ful for those new to a type of music, or those who are die-hard fans of a certain genre. Barnes & Noble offers a search of each category on the main page. On the 
albums in category. books page, the search is by keyword, author or 
j..-~=,.qa~on.com .£J;r_..-'71 ~~::~::~~.::p•::~
title, and the music and 

Photo courtesy of CDNOW.com 
movie pages function simi­· larly. 
Purchasing 

To make a purchase on CDNOW, it is necessary to register with the site. This includes providing a credit card number. Prices of CDs are comparable to popular media stores. Shipping and handling charges for CDs are $2. 99 for the first CD and $0.99 for each additional. 
State tax is added in Florida, California, New York, Pennsylvania and New Jersey. For example, Madonna's "Music" CD is listed at $13.28. With shipping and han­dling, a customer would pay $16.27. 
Amazon's system is similar, requiring registry and a password to purchase. CDs are priced similarly to those on CDNOW. but shipping and handling is less -a sure bonus. 
The same CD on Amazon is also $13.28, 
BARNES&N0BLEO 
WW"W.bn.com 
Photo courtesy ot www.bn.com 

but shipping and handling only adds $1.99. 
Overall, because CD prices are almost always the same, Amazon is a better deal than CDNOW because of the higher shipping charge. 
Barnes & Noble's CDs are slightly more expensive. llere Madonna's "Music'' costs $16.49. Shipping and handling for orders containing music and/or movies only is $1.99 per order plus $0.99 per item. 
Sales tax is applicable in Tennessee, New Jersey, New York and Virginia. The total cost for this CD is $19.47 -meaning that CDs and shipping rates are more expensive at Barnes and Noble than at any of the other three sites. 
Other Services 

Each of these sites offers additional services such as discounts and recommendations. 
On CDNOW's site, there is a discount of up to 30 percent for any item listed on the Top 100 list. CDNOW also sends out emails to registered users containing discount codes to enter on the next pur­chase. The site offers additional mailing lists for Music News, Sales and New Releases -keeping shoppers updated and connected. 
Amazon features a Recommendation Center in which there are lists such as top albums from a given year and top 
sellers. which are 

Photocourtesyotarnazon.com offered at a discount 
rate. 

Amazon also provides a customer rating system, sample CD tracks to preview. a bargain section, and pre-ordering services for upcoming releases. 
Barnes & Nobles' amenities are similar to Amazon's, but not as extensive. Customers can read reviews of albums and offer their own comments, but sample tracks aren't available. Biographies of artists are listed with selections, and a bargain sec­tion is available. 
The Winner 

Overall, the best deal for your time and money is Amazon.com. With the cheapest additional charges and competitive prices, a user-friendly design and great selection, this site offers the user the most perks and benefits. 
T-shirts proclaim school devotion, unite student body 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students seem to have a love affair with the 100% cotton T-shirt. We wear them everywhere, using them as a status sym­bol, telling the world who we arc and where we've been. This isn't a fleeting or momentary obsession. 
At the beginning of every school year we go in droves to the bookstore to purchase an overpriced symbol of unity, commonly known as "The Shirt." We wear shirts bearing the image and logo of our great university on and off campus. and never tire of them. We know who we are and are proud of it. 
But it's not only Notre Dame shirts we desire. We wear shirts announcing our home­towns, states, and even our 
high school mascots -anything 
we want to exhibit to the world. We use T-shirts as a way to express our interests and activities, what sports we play or like to watch, the clubs we've joined, and in support of our respective classes, even our majors. 

Jacqueline Browder 
Assistant Scene Editor 
And all-hail to the annual CBLD shirt. Their mar­keting department should be awarded a gold medal of some sort. Do you really think that so many stu­dents would even have a long distance calling plan had it not been for the oh-so-attainable free tee waiting for you after you've signed your life away on the dotted line? I don't. I know I'm in it for the shirt. 
It's an epidemic. We love the idea of being associ­ated with something so easily. Want people to know that you love Dave Matthews? Show up to class in a T-shirt bearing the name of his latest live album. New York Yankees fan? Take a run around the lakes in your 2000 World Series Champions T-shirt. Think Key West Florida is the greatest place on earth? You get the idea. It's that simple. 
And then there's the ever-important dance T­shirt. I'll be quite honest. Obtaining and wearing a shirt bearing the name of a dorm of the opposite sex is a small yet important victory for any student. We love them. We wear them with pride to Rolfs and the dining halls. even to class. 
I'll admit it. When a dance date shows up at my door to pick me up with a T-shirt in one hand and a couple of flowers in the other (this, by the way, is an ideal) I'm elated. When the T-shirt is missing, there's always a slight twinge of disappointment (although, it's something that I get over as quickly as you can say CBLI)). 
And, of course, who can forget the infamous, door-to-door bootleg T-shirt? These arc the shirts that are a little dangerous, rather catchy and almost always humorous. Students make a fortune off of them, selling shirts with the eloquent "Michigan Sucks" logo and the always amusing encouragement to "Drink Like A Champion Today," selling them to anyone with a few extra dollars lying around. (If they could find a way to Flex them, the possibilities could be endless.) 
I could go on and on. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students love T-shirts. It's a right of passage to buy "The Shirt" and any other shirt that comes our way. These shirts serve an important purpose for us, proclaiming proudly -and cheaply -who we are and what we do with our free time. As long as people are willing to print them, we'll buy them. love them and wear them with pride. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Drinking under the Dome 
After the Finnigan 's bust and Board of Trustees studying the alcohol policy. 
OCUS 
The Observer looks at drinking laws at Notre Dame. 
O
HIE 

Wednesday, November 1, 2000 BSERVER 

University begins long-term study of alcohol policy 
Currently, Notre Dame's we were able to talk about the opportunity to address
story by 

Board of Trustees is exam­issues they were already the Board of Trustees twice 
. ining the University's own talking about and give them a year, Smith said. alcohol policy. although it is student perspective." Although they usually pre­
ERIN LARUFFA 
unclear yet whether any "The discussion was sent to the Student Affairs changes will be made. based on them getting a committee only, this year cott Krueger At its spring meeting, the fuller understanding of they also presented to the Board of Trustees suggest­what students think of the Social Values committee. 
should be a

S 
ed that student government policy," said Susan Roberts, After the presentation.
senior at the 

present a student Trustee committee mem­Massachusetts report on g o v e r n -bers did not indicate when Institute of the alcohol "The issue hasn't been mcnt's and if they would be mak­policy, academic ing a decision on any
Technology this year. addressed to the Board of
which stu­delegate. changes.
But he never made it dent lead­Trustees in recent years. "It was a "It appeared to us that the through his freshman ers agreed [Board members] wanted very open response was overwhelm­to do, said discussion ingly positive," Smith said. 
year. to gain the pulse ofthe
Jay Smith, between Committee members did
Krueger died of alco­
student campus. " the Board question the trio followinghol poisoning after a government of Trustees their presentation. but nei­night of binge drink­chief of Susan Roberts and the ther committee indicated 
staff. students." that tho Board was consid­
ing at his fraternity academic delegate
Inslead of Smith ering changing the policyhouse in 1997. the tradi­student government a n d altogether. according to The tragedy caused tional for-Hoberts, Roberts. 
mal report, along with "The issue hasn't been
MIT to re-examine its 
he said, the Trustees felt a Michael Heinz, made a addressed to the Board ofalcohol policy and discussion would be more three-part presentation to Trustees in recent years," drew attention to the effective. two Board of Trustees com­she said. "[Board members) 
. Students say du Lac condones drinking on campus 
By JASON McFARLEY 
In Focus Writer 
While officials seemingly look the other way when it comes to stu­dent alcohol consumption, policies in place at the University call on undergraduates to drink responsi­bly. 
That's according to some Notre Dame students, who said the University's official alcohol policy, as stated in the student handbook, duLac, seems to condone drinking -if only temperate -among stu­dents. 
"Obviously, college students are going to drink; it's going to occur at any school. And the University recognizes that," said Meaghan Donovan, a Pasquerilla East Hall sophomore. 
Off-campus senior Erin Flynn 
agrees.
"We believe that this was mittees -Student Affairs wanted to gain the pulse of
heavy drinking that 
"It's good that the University rec-
progress," Smith said. "In and Social Values. the campus."
occurs on campuses 
giving up a formal report, Student govcrnme_nt has 
sec STUDENTS I page 3

nationwide. see TRUSTEES I page 4 
page 2 
IN OUR EYES 

Open the bars to all 
You are old enough tu vote. You are old enough to die for your country. You arc old enough to be killed by your country if vou commit a capital offense. But if you arc 18 years old and in Indiana, you are not allowed to enter a dance club that 
serves alcohol even if you have no desire to drink. Docs anyone else see a problem with this? 
I am not advocating changing the drinking age in this column. People with more wisdom than I have determined that 21 Is an 


appropriate ago to begin Mike Connolly 
drinking legally. 
But where is the wisdom 
in barring adults from 

sodal arenas presuming Editor in Chief 
that they will commit a 
crime (underage drinking) 
if they are allowed to 

enter. An "18 to entPr, 21 to drink" law for 
dance clubs, pool halls and sports bars just 
makes sense. 

As a 20-year-old student, the only off-cam­
pus dance club I can go to legally is Irish 
Connection. But getting shot, stabbed or 
offered crack is not my idea of a good time on 
Saturday night. 

Whc~n my 21-year-old friends head off to 
lleartland or Coach's, I am left behind. I don't 
even necessarily want to go to a bar to drink. 
Just being off-campus in a social environment 
would be fine. Many states other than Indiana 
have "18 to enter, 21 to drink" laws, there is 
no reason why this law wouldn't work in 
Indiana as well. 

Over Fall Break, my friends and I went to a pool ha!Vbar in North Carolina. We listened to the music, shot some pool and generally had a good time. We didn't drink and we still h?d a good time. Unfortunately, this opportu­mty doesn't exist back in beautiful South Bend. 
__'J'r~y M~rphy said he wasn't drinking at hnmgan s when he was cited for being a "minor in a tavern." Since it was just two days before the start of official basketball practice, I am going to assume Murphy was telling the truth. 
:he_refore, Murphy was not breaking any drmkmg laws when he was cited but instead ~e was cited for dancing, talking and hanging m an unapproved location. Doesn't the South Bend Police have better things to do than arrest students for dancing, talking and hanging out in unapproved locations? 
_I would love it if I had options on Saturday night that went beyond watching a movie in my room, packing into a drunken on-campus party or walking over to Turtle Creek for excessive drinking. South Bend needs a place wh~re all adults can gather in a safe, adult environment. 
_I want a place where I can go with my friends both of legal drinking age and under­age where I can watch the big game on tele­vision, maybe shoot some pool or dance to whatever the latest songs the DJ is spinning. 
I need adult social options. Trust me to make legal drinking decisions. If I drink underage, arrest me. But don't arrest me for being 20 years old and looking for an adult social environment. 
IN FOCUS STAFF Editor: Tim Logan Photography: Tony Floyd Art: Jose Cuellar Graphics: Jose Cuellar Lab Tech: Shannon Bennett 
The Observer . IN FOCUS 
ND, local police, collaborate to 
address off­campus drinking 
By TIM LOGAN In Focus Editor 
At 1:15 on the morning of Friday, Oct. 13, Finnigan's Irish Pub was hopping, with music blaring and the dance 11oor crowded. 
A quarter-hour later, the music had stopped, the lights were on, and 147 underage students who had been celebrating the start of Fall Break were thinking about their court dates. 
The bar, notorious for serving rumors, was raided by Indiana State Excise Police and officers from the South Bend Police Department. It was the third time in three years that a prominent underage bar has been so raided, and it again raised ques­tions of Notre Dame's involvement in fighting underage drinking off-cam­pus. . The U~iversity was not directly involved m the bust, school oflicials 
_say. But they did know about under­age drinking at Finnigan's and had discussed the bar in their ongoing dialogue with local law enforcement about student safoty otT campus. 
"It doesn't take a rocket scientist to know that something was going on at Finnigan's," said Bill Kirk. assistant vice president for Residence Life. 

Indiana Alcohol Laws
"Finnigan's has been a concern for a lot of folks for a long time." 

The following are class Cmisdemeanors: 
A matter of safety 
For obvious reasons, Notre Dame 

. furnishing alcohol to a minor
has been involved in discussion with local authorities for years. . Minor possessing alcohol They meet regularly to talk about 
. Minor in a tavern
issues like football weekend traffic neighborhood concerns and stu~ . Furnishing false ID dent safety. And with student safe­
Class Cmisdemeanors carry a maximum 
ty comes student drinking. Both administrators and local penalty of up lo 6D days in jail and a $5D0 police acknowledge that drinking 
fine. Minor in a tavern can also include
off-campus can put students at risk. Walking home late at night .suspension of driver's license. from off-campus houses, bars and 
Notre Dame's role 
apartment complexes is sometimes "We can't [call a raid]. We don'ta risky endeavor. Students walking 

have that ability or authority," he
home drunk, according to Kirk, 

said. "Like anyone else in the com­
take an even bigger risk. "They are the best victims of munity, we can tell them what's 
crime," he said. 

going on ifwe have a complaint." Bar raids, such as the ones atOn November 10, 1997, a student Finnigan's, and at Bridget McGuire's
was shot while returning from an 

and Irish Connection in 1998, are
off-campus bar early one Sunday pla_nned and carried out by the
morning. There have also been 

lnd1ana State Excise Police, not localnumerous inci­dents of intoxicat­
authorities. The Excise Police are a
ed students and 

"It doesn't take a rocket 
part of the Indianavisitors to campus 

scientist to know that 
Alcoholic Beverage

being hit by cars late at night. something was going on Commission, which "The safety licenses and regu­
at Finnigan 's. " 
issue is a priority. lates permits to I don't think stu­
make or sell alco­dents out there 
Bill Kirk hol across the state. realize this," said assistant vice president for The Excise Police 
had likely received

Capt. John Residence Life 
Williams of the complaints about 
South Bend Police. the Finnigan ·s. Williams said, and
"Everybody has this attitude out decided to raid the bar. The state
there that it can't happen to them. 

agency then asked the local police for 
Well, it can." assistance, which South Bend gave.
So the University and local law and the bust was carried out.

enforcement discuss student safety Smaller raids are handled by theconcerns. But those discussions do local authorities. 

not mean that Notrn Dame can get a The South Bend Police will investi­bar raided, according to Kirk. School gate, and break up, parties-in private ofl~cia_ls can, and do, bring underage residences, such as Turtle Creek's

drmkmg to the attention of police, however. annual Rally in the Alley, or the house and block parties that regular-

Wednesday, November I, 2000 
Keep 
ly spring up on weekends, if they 
receive complaints from neighbors, 
according to Williams. 
"When we get a complaint, we 
send someone out to investigate," he 
said. "We don't do those things on 
impulse." 
And generally, off-campus events 
are monitored not by the University, 
but by local police, according to Kirk. 
"They tell us about most of the 
things," he said. "I don't know about 
most of the things that go on." 
But there are some exceptions. 
The University steps in 
In September, senior Brian 
Jochum was planning the Budweiser 
Big House Olympics, a party cen­
tered around drinking competitions 
between students who had spent 
time abroad in different countries. 
Kirk was informed of the party, and 
he contacted Jochum, to inform him 
of the potential consequences in line 
with duLac. Jochum canceled the 
party. 

There are other stories like this and many instances of students being sanctioned by Hesidence Life for off­campus alcohol violations -it is Notre Dame's policy to hold students who violate local laws accountable. But Kirk said concern for student safety is at the root of them all. 
"The first concern for me is our student's safety," he said. "I think that some people think there's some big conspiracy. That's just not the case." 
Understanding the problem 
To help understand student drink­ing, both off campus and on, Notre Dame is conducting a wide-ranging study of student attitudes about alco~ ho! use. 
Student Affairs officials will hold focus groups with people from all sides of the drinking issue. One meet­ing they've already held was with local bar owners, and it was a good dialogue, according to Kirk. 
"They're business people. The vast 


Wednesday, November 1, 2000 The Observer . IN FOCUS page 3 
"[The policy] gives us a chance the University applies its alcohol to be college students," said policy, it's for the protection of Sorin Hall freshman Pat female students. He said with continued from page 1 Hallahan. "People know they women and alcohol use, the 
can drink here if they want to." issue of safety, espocially as it ognizes that there will be alcohol Hallahan noted that the alco­relates to sexual assault, arises. use by students," she said. hol policy, while laxly enforced, In recent months, the student 
In fact, policies adopted by the doesn't promote student drink­alcohol use has been a campus­University in 1984 not only rec­ing. He said in a college settirtg wide concern. In September, the ognize the probability of on­where students are already very Notre Dame student government campus drinking but also lay out likely to drink, the University's opted to make the issue the sub­specific rules for it. alcohol policy doesn't prompt ject of its annual Board of 
DuLac, for higher inci­Trustees report. example, dents of con­Recently, University adminis­
Students 
"{The policy] gives us a
makes stu­sumption. trators have also expressed dents respon­chance to be college The policy interest in the topic. One matter sible for com­also raises that's plagued them is why off­
students. People know
pliance with questions campus parties and bars attract
they can drink here if
Indiana crimi­about unequal many·undergraduate students. nal laws per­they want to." enforcement "I think of my dorm as the taining t.o and applica­place where I live, study and alcohol pos­tion of the work," Donovan said. ''I'd rather
Pat Hallahan
session and rules. That's a go somewhere else and party." 
freshman

use. The concern many "Let's face it," Hallahan said. handbook students share. "Even with as much freedom as clearly states that "the "Unfortunately, the policy isn't we have here, going off campus University does not condone any enforced equally," said Flynn, a seems to put us out of the violations of the criminal law, former Pangborn Hall resident. University's hands." including underage drinking." "Male dorms have more liberal Flynn said it's important that 
Indiana law stipulates that policies," she said, pointing out officials recognize that students anyone under 21 is underage. that alcohol abuse among on­go off campus as much to social­
But Notre Dame officials only campus men is commonly more ize as to drink. While more enforce these laws in individual accepted than that among their University social space would residence hall rooms if excessive female counterparts. benefit students, it wouldn't nec­noise or other such disturbances "On the whole, guys get away essarily keep them from seeking call undue attention to the with a lot more," Donovan the change of scenery that off­
Students for the most part like the University's current alcohol
rooms, duLac states. added. campus partying mpresents, she 
policy, which generally permits drinking in dorm rooms. Off­
Students said that makes the Hallahan, however, said if said. 
campus drinking has been a concern of administrators. 
policy somewhat more tolerable. there is a gender bias in the way "Maybe it would be helpful for 

g it contained 
TONY FLOYD/The Observer 

1id of Finnigan's Irish Pub on E. Wayne St., where 147 minors were charged with a Class C misde­
•ople under 21. 
majority of them are good, decent folks," he said. He also noted the Indiana law prohibit­ing minors from entering a bar. and pointed out that violating it is not good for business. 
"They will lose their license," he said. 
Nevertheless, some local bars continue to serve minors, catering to the large 
college student market in South Bend. Excise police have now raided three since January, 1998, and each time another bar has filled the underage void. 

This has some people looking for other options. 
"You shut one down, and another one springs up," Fisher Hall senator Dan Barabas said. 
"Everyone knows that, so that's why we're looking at alterna­tives." 
Barabas chairs the Campus Life Council's Task Force on Off-Campus Bars, a committee formed by the CLC to study the issue of off-campus drink­ing. The group, which is com­prised of students, rectors and administrators, does not 

BUSTED! 
' '

.
3 years . .. 3 maJor bar raids 
BridgetMcGuire's  01.30.1998  165 cited  
Irish Connection  11.13.1998  94 cited  
Finni~an's Irish ub  10.13.2CXX)  147 cited  

To bust, or not to bust 
"You shut one down. and another one springs up. Everyone knows that, so that's why we're looking for alternatives." 
Dan Barabas Fisher Hall senator 
exist to seek out and close bars that serve minors, Barabas said. 
"No one's out there to bust bars or anything," he said. 
Instead they will focus on alternatives -SUB events, res­idence hall activities, and ath­letics -and try to understand what drives students to drink off campus. And Notre Dame 
"We can't [call a raid]. We don't have that ability or authority. " 
Bill Kirk assistant vice president for Residence Life 
administrators will keep talk­ing with the South Bend Police, trying to find a way to prevent illegal and abusive drinking outside the bounds of the cam­pus. 
Until the next time the music stops, and the lights come on, and dozens of underage bargo­ers start thinking about their court dates. 
---~~-.--­
Wednesday, November I, 2000 

page 4 The Observer . IN FOCUS 
alcohol-related problems at Notre Dame. according to
Trustees 

Smith. This included binge drinking and policies in du
continued from page l 

Lac. as well as statistics from Now. the Board is "probably the Office of Alcohol and Drug digesting" the information Education. 
The second part involved
from the presentation and planning to discuss the issue student perspective -inter­
at its February meeting, said pretation of the alcohol policy by different student-led focus
Dennis Moore, the University's director of Publie groups. and varying interpre­
tations of the policy.
Hclations and Information. 

Another important aspect of
What is for certain is that the Board will be looking at student perspective involves 
resident assistants (RAs) andalcohol issues further. 
"whether or not they're there
The Office of Student Affairs. along with the Office for assistance or for punish­
ment" in relation to studentof Drug and Alcohol 
Education (OAOE). are cur­alcohol use, according to rently assembling focus Smith. groups consisting of students. "We want them to be 
a resource for students," he
rectors. faculty, staff and community members, accord­said. ing to Gina Firth. director of Hectors. and the consistency 
with which they enforce alco­
OADE. The two offices hope to hol rules, was also brought 
complete listen sessions with up. 
The student perspective sec­
over 30 focus groups and 

tion of the presentation also
compile a report to present to 

incorporated concerns of off-
the Board of Trustees at campus stu­dents. Many

its meeting in "(Alcohol] education 
of these peo­
May. 

alone is not enough. We
"This is an ple do not 
opportunity have some major space know the for us to lis­concerns. 
ramifications -both with
ten and hear from a wide 

the law and Gina Firth with the
array of folks for whom this director University ­
for something

is an issue," Office of Alcohol such as
said Bill Kirk. 

and Drug Education 
throwing a

assistant vice presid en t for party, Residence Life. according to Smith. 
An early part of this listen­Another aspect of student ing came during the Trustees· perspective the group pre­meeting with student govern­sented the difference in
was ment. The three students gave drinking habits at different 
the Board an overview of ages. In other words, Smith said, the reasons why stu­
dents drink are different for constitutes making drinking freshmen and seniors because public. he said. social circumstances change The second part of the as students progress through action plan involves increas­their time at Notre Dame. ing education. 
One perception. Smith said, Currently. PILLARS has a is that upperclassmen drink program for first-year stu­less than underclassmen. He dents to discuss alcohol use, added that there are many but no such program exists freshmen who do not drink at for older students. all, but then begin' to drink as Director of Alcohol and sophomores. Drug Education Gina Firth 
The final praised the section of the efforts of
"Even with ideas like 
three-part PILLARS at 
presentation increased social space. educating included a there's not much the freshmen, plan of action. but added
University can do to keep 
or what repre­that more 
us here."
sentatives of education is student gov­necessary. ernment think "We need
Pat Hallahan 
n e e d s to continue
freshman
improvement. extending 
First, they our efforts," believe that Firth said. consistency has to be In this vein, presenters told improved. The students told the Board that education the Board of Trustees that should not be reserved for certain areas of the policy had freshmen, according to Smith. to be clarified in order for the Instead, it should be ongo­policy to be more consistently ing "as the individual devel­enforced. Such clarification. ops," he said. The students he added, would be most ben­recommended that rectors eficial if' the clarification poli­and RAs meet with small cy involved input from stu­groups of students to talk dents, HAs, rectors. adminis­about alcohol issues. trators, professors and the However, as Smith pointed Trustees. out, off-campus students do not 
Smith explained that mem­have rectors or RAs to turn to. bers of student govcrnm1rnt Those students need to be edu­involved in the preparing the cated about their new legal presentation felt the current obligations and their obliga­policy is good but needs to be tions as Notre Dame students. clarified. and therefore, the three sug­
As an example of this, Smith gested that there be a manda­pointed out that some dorms tory meeting for students who require students to fill out a want to move off campus. Such form to have a party, while a meeting could also cover other dorms do not have such security, financial issues and a requirement. Another area resources at Notre Dame that that is unclear involves what students can turn to for help. 
Thirdly, the action plan included discussion of facilities for non-alcohol related events. Smith explained that LaFortune does not have ade­quate entertainment for aver­age Notre Dame students on the weekend. 
"IAlcohul] education alone is not enough," Firth said, adding that lack of space for non-alco­ho l related events probably contributes to some heavy drinking among Notre Dame students. 
"We have some major space concerns," she said. While praising Student Activities fur their efforts, Firth added that there are "social limitations" due to lack of social space. 
Last year, a Student Senate survey indicated thal students want something such as a movie theater ur bowling alley in the student center. But, he noted. that would require a new building. And some people said that no matter what pro­grams are offered, college stu­dents will still drink. 
"Even with ideas like increased social space. there ·s not much the University can do to keep us here," said fresh­man Pat llallahan. 
Nevertheless. presenters rec­om mendcd that the Trustees follow the Senate's recommen­dations in this urea. 
Funding for non-alcohol related events was also part of the presentation. 
Smith pointed out that such events currently have low turnout because it is difficult "to compete with Hally in the Ally, Lafayette." Until Student Activities can afford bigger pro­ductions. said Smith. non-alco­h ol events may take a back scat. 


EXPLORING CAMPUS ISSUES 

I N E T 

Wednesday, November l, 2000 page 11 
d cons of buying and selling on the Internet 
Online auctions on Ebay, Priceline can bring surprises or disappointment 
By LAURA KELLY 

Assistant Scene Edi tor 
It is a universal truth about college 
Browse Sell Services Search Help Communitystudents that we always seem to be short on cash. We have no problem spending it -it's making it and keep­\l>elco""'.e new ll4e,.r1 
ing it that we struggle with. Our mail­the world's online marketplace boxes are flooded with new credit card applications every day. When opened along with pitifully small bank state­men ts or other credit card bills. a brand new Visa credit line can sudden­Iv seem like a brilliant idea. 
· But what does this handful of credit 
• 
Home Users --click here 

• 
Small Business --click here 

• 
Students --click heri; 

• 
Home Mortg~ges 

• 
Home Eguity Loans 

• 
Horne Refinancing 






Name Your 0\-/n Pncesm for the exact ne,,, car or truck you 'vlant and get your 1111;-;iwi:r in one business day_ 
Save at the best r1ame-bnrnd hotels in 
your favorite cities:  
Orlando  San Frnn  
ChlC89Q.  6Mton  
1Nash D.C.  Los Angele3  
Ne,,,1 Yori'.  San DiegQ.  
Les Veg~  MORE  .  

Enter a city to get started: 
mml 


• 
Save 20% or m,:ire 

• 
Get uni irnited mi leag~ 


• Top 5 rental car agencies 
:,1. Click here form,:,re detail 
Getstartedtight here: 

De partlire City: · 
I 
De artureDale: 
Nov I~ ( 2 t;) 
RetmnDate: 
[Novi ;J 
Howman ticke 
1ticket 

Photo courtesy of pricelina.com 
cards mean for a college student. other than years of debt and a poor credit rating? When combined with 24-hour Internet access and a strong need to procrastinate, it can only translate into one thing -online shopping. 
As the first generation to grow up with the Internet, we have experienced the marvels of hav­ing information at our fingertips and on our com­puter screen within seconds. The Internet has made papers easier to write, kept hometown friends and family in touch, and provided hours of enjoyable procrastination. 
But as more and more companies go online to pro­mote their prod­ucts, buying and selling goods on the .Internet is one more way to spend money and valuable time. 
Besides the usual clothes, 
eBay 

e~ay 
Foundation such as
books and CDs 
Company 

Comm1mity 
the oppor­
available for pur­
overview 

tunity to
chase 
online, more net-surfers are using the Internet to plan trips and find great deals on travel plans. Priceline.com is one of the earliest and best-known discount travel sites. At this site, you can name your own price on anything from airline tickets to rental cars to hotel rooms, and Priceline will search to match what you're wilJ­ing to spend. 
At first sight, it seems like a brilliant idea ­you've scrounged up some extra money, and there must be some airline out there willing to fly you to Cancun for $60. And indeed, you may be one of the lucky customers that Priceline boasts about. But experience shows otherwise. 
The annoying thing about Priceline is that you must enter in all of your personal informadon, including your credit card number, before the site will find you a deal. This means you are locked into making the purchase if Priceline can find you the service you want at the price you name. 
For all those dreaming up exotic spring break 
plans in the middle of February, Priceline does not provide any way to search for discount prices without an obligation to buy what you find. 


Priceline 
Relation'> does pro­vide some 
Contact 

interesting
Information

· options, 
Photo courtesy of Ebay.com name your 
own price for long distance service. But besides travel accommodations, the other services provided are not too useful for the average college student, such as deals on home financing and new cars. 
Unfortunately, two of the services that would be extremely useful -discounts on groceries and gas -will no longer be offered. In this way, Priceline is designed-for those with specific needs, and doesn't cater to those who want to shop around for the best bargains. 
For those who are looking to make money rather 
'ti Check Your Request [ Airline Tickets Ii) 
Photo courtesy of Ebay.com 

than spend it, the phenomenon of Ebay.com is the place to go -"the world's first, biggest and best person-to-person online trading community." Like a virtual garage sale, Ebay allows you to dump all your old junk on someone else. 
After registering on the site, you merely provide information on the item you want to sell and then sit back to watch your own online auction.You can also search for anything to buy yourself. 
Simply type in what you're looking to find or browse the provided categories. Ebay will provide you with a huge list of all the items that meet your request. 
You can then peruse pictures and descriptions of the items -everything from antiques and col­lectibles to computers and cars. Then you can bid whatever you're willing to spend on the items, and hope no one outbids you before the item's bidding deadline ends. 
Ebay.com is the perfect source for obscure gifts or wild dorm room decorations. As Ebay's mission statement declares, "We help people trade practi­cally anything on earth." 
Unfortunately, some Ebay traders have taken this a little too literally in the past. Among the bizarre items and hoaxes that have been put up for auction in the past are 500 pounds of marijuana, an unborn baby, a human kidney, a missle, and Ebay.com itself. The site has quickly moved to prevent such prank bids, and otherwise offers only legimate goods and products. 
As a whole the prices on Ebay are reasonable, and the ability to name your own price and then buy with the click of a mouse is hard to pass up. The searching and bidding can become addictive, though -if you find yourself cursing at your screen at 4:30 a.m. because some punk outbid you on a vintage Monkees album, you may need to seek help. 
Overall, though, both Priceline and Ebay provide a unique and intriguing auction format. The Web sites are large and complete, but clear and easy to navigate, with detailed tutorials explaining proce­
dures to first-time visitors. 
Both sites are well-known and reliable -they 
provide information on the security of the services 
they offer and on the safety of making online pur­
chases at their site. 

So the next time you're hunting for discount air­
fare home, or need to buy your mother the latest 
Beanie Baby in time for Christmas, gather up those 
shiny new credit cards and start bidding. You 
never know what deals you might find. 
Could you be the next Siske! or Ebert? 
Scene is looking for 
. .
movie reviewers. Call 1-4540 
Wednesday, November 1, 2000

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 

Stojakovic, Webber each score 23 to give Kings 100-81 win 
Associated Press 
CIIICAGO 
Sacramento didn't need Jason Willia.ms on Tuesday night as Predrag Stojakovic and Chris Webber each scored 
2:i points, giving the Kings a 100-81 victory over the Chicago Bulls. 
Williams. the pl>int guard with the spectacular passes and playground-style game, is suspended !'or tht> first five games or the season for failing to comply with his drug trent­ment plan. But Webber and Stojakovic easily f'illnd the void. 
Stojakovic was 10-ol'-13 from the licld. and had three stnals and eight rebounds. Webber also had tii){ht boards, as well as a game-high seven assists. I le also blocked three shots. 
Hobby .Jackson added 14 points for Sacramento. 
Hon Mercer, lured tu Chicago when the big-name free agents lurncd up lheir noses at the Bulls' money. overcame a slow start and scored 19. lie missed his first five shots and was just 1-of-7 in the first half, but he settled down in the second, scoring six in the first two minutes of the third quarter. 
Elton Brand had 16 points, while Khalid El-Amin added 11 and Fred lloiberg had 10. 

But the highlight ol' the night for the Bulls was rookie Marcus Fizer. The forward scored 16 points on 7-of-13 shooting, including the play of the game at the end of the lirst half. 
With about 2 seconds left. he stole the ball from Lawrence Funderburke, crossed the hall'court line, pulled up and, with the crowd yelling "Shoot!" l~t the ball flv. The 34-!'ooter went in. drawing a huge ruar from the crowd and pulling the Bulls within 46-42 at the half. 

Just how good was his game? In Scottie Pippen's dubut with the Bulls in 1987, he was 4-of-7 with one rebound for 10 points. Ile also had four turnovers. lloracc Grant scored just three points on 1-of'-4 shooting in that same Nov. 7, 1987, game. 
With an average age of' 
22.8 years, the Bulls are the youngest team in the NBA, and they looked it in 11ashes. They managed to hang with the Kings until the last live minutes of the third quarter, when Stojakovic scored nine points during a 17-9 run that gave Sacramento a 69-61 lead. 
The Bulls didn't man­age a field goal until Mercer's layup with 6:56 left in the fourth quarter, and they got sloppy with missed shots and turnovers. Whenever they did manage to score, the Kings had an answer. 
The Bulls finished with 20 turnovers, and Sacramento converted them into 27 points. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 l.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
I need two tickets for the Boston College game LOST & FOUND Contact Travis 
319-241-1082. FOUND TREK BIKE in parking lot one week PAYING $50 EACH FOR ND VS. ago. BOSTON COLLEGE TICKETS. 219 CALL MATT 4-4894 289·8048 
LOST on campus at Stanford game  Need two tix for BC game.  
1 1 /2 inch thick gold bracelet  Call Colleen 4·1146.  
REWARD call Carol at 312-946­ 
1800  Need 1 Ticket  
ForNDv BC  
FOUND: lronman Triathlon watch  247•0965  
on Thursday nght between  
LaFortune and Nieuwiand Science  I NEED T'NO BC TICKETS!  
Hall. Man's watch with black, grey,  MY PARENTS ARE COMING!  
and orange coloring. Call Steph at  WILL PAY!  
4-1675.  CALL 284-4334!  
WE'LL TALK!  
TICKETS  NEED TWO BOSTON COLLEGE  
GA'S. PLEAES CALL MANY ARD  
AT 1-800-638-6963, X 6093. CALL  
WANTED  WILL BE RETURNED ASAP.  

ND FOOTBALL TKTS 

200·9280  
for Sale  
SELLING  ND FOOTBALL TKTS  Three Ben Harper concert tickets  
251-1570  General Admission in Chicago  
call Kate at 4•2349  

VICTORY TKTS 
BUY-SELL'TAADE 
ND FOOTBALL 232-0964 

www.victoryt1ckets.com FOR RENT 
BUY/SELL ND TICKETS 273-3911 ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE 
AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ AM. -232-2378 email· mmmrentals@aolcom PM. -288-2726 232-2595 
NO FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE That Pretty Place, Bed and 
A.M. -232-2378 Breakfast Inn has space available P M -288-2726 tor footbalVparent wknds. 5 Rooms 
with private baths, $80-$115, I NEED 4 BC TIX TOGETHER Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. CAN PAY ONLY $200. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418­CALL 243-1621 9487. 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 5-br $1000/month 2) 4-br $1100/month 3)3-br $650/month We'll make almost any changes to the houses. Call Bill at 675-0776. 
Students Wanted! Alum-owned 2stry 5-6 bdrm, 2 bath New: carpet, appliances, washer-dryer, furnace-roof, & Security. Huge yard. 1blk N. of Club 23. $1375 inc. until. Call Jason 240-0322. 
Now Available: Great 2 BR Apt in student area. 711 E. Washington fenced deck, big basement 1 1/2 bath $550 + util. New appliances. 289-0262/288-341 o. 
NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF NO. GREAT AREA. 277-3097. 
2520 sq. ft home tor sale or lease to buy in Knollwood Moving. $174k. 277-7992 
WANTED 
Need childcare in our Granger home, Tues and Thurs. Must have transportation Call 271-1935. 
NANNY WANTED: 25-35 hrs/week. Contact Krista @ 425-793-1208 for more info or email KROBKE@CERWER.COM 
International publication based in Granger has opening tor assistant editor. Writing and grammar skills necessaiy. Knowledge of motor-sports a bonus. For more inlorma­lion call 277-0033 
Locally based racing publication in need of web design to help to improve and maintain present sites. Strong graphic design ability a must. For more info. call 277-0033. 

WANTED: FORMER ISLI PARTICI­PANTS TO FACILITATE UPCOM­ING CONFERENCE ON 11118/00. "RUDY" WILL BE THE GUEST SPEAKER. CALL JIM HART AT 277-1599 OR DR.LOMBARDO AT THE CCE. 
COACH: Need Jr. High boys bas­ketball coach. Responsible, dependable student or grad to coach 7-8th grade basketball B-team, Nov. 13-Feb 23; for south side elementary school, located near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street. 
Must be available tor practices Mon-Thurs from 2:20-3: 15. Game schedule varies. 
Officials Needed 
Officials Needed for Men and Women Basketball. This is a great opportunity to earn great money. Contact the RecSports office (Peter Shoop or Jeff Walker) @ 631 ·6100 or stop by the office in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center today. You can also e-mail us at rec­sport@nd.edu. 
NOTICES 
COLLEGE SCHOLARSHIPS 300,000 + private sector scholar­ships available for undergraduate and graduate students at accredrt­ed colleges in the Usa regardless of their GPA, finances, age or citizen­ship. Write or call for FREE infer­mation and application 
Scholarship Database Service P.O. Box432 Notre Dame, IN 46556-0432 Barnyard8961@hotmail.com 
1-800-936·3706 THE COPY SHOP La Fortune Student Center Store Hours 
FOR SALE 
Mon-Thur: 7:30 a.m. to midnight 

Fri: 7:30 a.m. -7:00 p.m. SURVIVE SPRING BREAK 2001! Sat: Noon•6 p.m. ALL THE HOTTEST DESTINA• Sun: Noon-midnight TIONSIHOTELS! CAMPUS SALES PHONE 631-COPY REPRESENTATIVES ANO STU­DENT ORGANIZATIONS WANT-WORK THE POLLS ELECTION ED! DAY, NOV.7 VISIT inter-campus.com or call 1-6AM-6PM 800-327-6013 PAY $75 THE TRIBE HAS SPOKEN! YOU MUST BE 18YRS OLD, A 
RESIDENT OF ST JOSEPH #1 Spring Break 2001 -Cancun, COUNTY, IN , AND A REGIS-Mazatlan, Acapulco, Jamaica, TEREO VOTER. IF YOU ARE Florida & S.Padre. Reliable TWA INTERESTED, CALL JOHN flights. Best Prices. Earn $$$ or COURT AT VOTERS REGISTRA­FREE trips-call for details! TION, 235-9530. 1.800.SURFS.UP www.studentex• press.com Cheer up, Cass. We're going to 
party like rock stars. Spring Break 2001 Book group of 15 and GO FREEi Book before ah, hush wat's that fuss, everybody Nov·. 3 for FREE Meals! move to the back of the bus Visit us at sunsplashtours.com or call for tree info Push 7 if you want to hear a duck @ 1-800·426-7710 quack. 
94 Mitsubishi Galant Quack, quack. 
6Jack/Sunrool/195k $1950 oho Hello Samantha dear, I hope your Call (219) 634-0849 feelin' fine! 
CAR FOR SALE: 1991 Pontiac Annie, Annie! I can't wait until we Lemas LE, 2D, Mileage: 77,000 have our little "discussion" Phone 273-6056; email erdem.1 @nd.edu Good b-ball game dawgsl Too bad 
you had to suck worse than us pangborn gals! 
PERSONAL 
Hey Katie Metz. 

Lauren schmogels, kale schmather Quality Copies, Quickly! and kristin are tab roommates! well, We're open early, late & weekends. most of the time;) THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Christine is my favoritisll Phone 631-COPY Quality Copies, Quickly! And that's it for tonight, baby! 
-------------~-~--------------­
Wednesday, November l, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
MLB 
Baseball owners negotiate contracts 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

Baseball owners approved a new TV deal with Fox and also gave OK to a contract with the new umpires union Tuesday, but deferred a. vote on the pro­posed sale of the Toronto Blue Jays. 
Commissioner Bud Selig spent a good portion of the three-hour meeting giving owners a state­of-the-industry talk. Selig said there was no discussion of the collective bargaining agreement that expires inexactly one year, which could lead to baseball's ninth work stoppage since 1972. 
"We have some real problems to solve in the industry, but I have said for many years we had eight work stoppages in my baseball career and we need to find different ways to solve those problems, and I mean that. So we will get to that later," Selig said. 
"I think everybody under­stands what the problems are and now we have to find the solutions." 
Fox. a division of Hupert Murdoch's News Corp. and th"e majority owne·r of the Los Angeles Dodgers, agreed Sept. 27 to a $2.5 billion, six-year contract that gives it rights to the playoffs, World Series, All­Star game and a game-of-the­week package through 2006. 
The deal is about a 50 percent increase from the previous five­year contracts, in which Fox and NBC split television rights. It was approved with one abstention. 
Following six months of nego­tiations, the new umpires' union agreed Aug. 31 to a five-year labor contract calling for retroactive raises of 10.2 per­cent to 14.9 percent this year. 
Owner approved that deal unanimously Tuesday. 
Approval of the Blue Jays' sale was deferred but Selig said he sees no problem and expects it to move forward. The delay was not related to Toronto sign­ing Carlos Delgado to a $68 mil­lion, four-year deal right before the World Series, a spokesman for the commissioner's office said. 
"It's an excellent group. I have every confidence we will move expeditiously on this but there was some material we needed to redo,"' Selig said. 
Rogers Communications Inc. agreed Sept. 1 to pay $112 mil­lion to buy 80 p-ercent of the Blue Jays from Interbrew SA, which became the team's con­trolling owner in 1995. when it purchased Labatt Brewing Co. 
Interbrew would retain a 20 percent interest. The Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, which has owned 10 percent, would sell its shares. 
Selig said the day after the Delgado deal was announced that "it raised more than my eyebrow." Asked then if he was concerned the contract was agreed to by an ownership group that had not yet been approved, Selig responded: "Let's just say that is an inter• esting situation." 
He said Tuesday more infor­mation was also needed to the gauge the low TV ratings for the Subway Series. He did not want to blame the 22 percent drop in ratings from 1999 on baseball's deepening disparity between small and large markets. 
"There are some people who will tell vou that at least from an anecdotal standpoint, that's true. But I can't tell you that today," Selig said. 
The Yankees, vvith the largest payroll at $113 million, and the Mets, with the fifth-biggest at $89 million, are members of baseball's "haves," and their exciting five-game series was a turn off to most of the rest of the country. 
The Series received a 12.4 rating, the lowest ever for base­ball's championship, down 12 percent from the previous low, a 14.1 for the Yankees' sweep of San Diego two years ago. 
"I was there to see three games myself, and it was a ter­rific Series from the standpomt competitive games and so forth," Diamondbacks owner Jerry Colangelo said. 
"There was great excitement in the City of New York. Unfortunately it appears some of the other parts of the country weren't quite as interested. Chicago and Los Angeles, by way of example. I think that kind of goes with the territory in a Subway Series," he added. 

NBA 
Vancouver will set money loss record 
turning them into profitable
Associated Press 
operations, but said he will reconsider owning the
VANCOUVER 

Grizzlies if the financial loss­
The Vancouver Grizzlies 

es continue.
will "set a record" for losing ''I'm not going to sit here money this year, and new and eat double-digit millions owner Michael IIeisley said of dollars for a long period of he can't tolerate that kind of 
time, I'llcash drain tell youtoo much 

"We 're going to lose a lot t h a t , " 
longer. 
Heisley

"We· re ofmoney, there's no 
said. · "Ifgoing to lose question about that. " people
a lot of don't think 
money, 
I wouldn't

Michael Heisley
there's no 
like to

question Grizzlies owner 
about that," Heisley said Tuesday before the Grizzlies opened their sixth NBA season against the Seattle SuperSonics. 
"I think I will set a record," the Chicago billionaire said when asked how much money the team will lose in his first year of ownership. "It's a lot more than you think it is." 
It is estimated the Grizzlies lost $25 million last year, and the team could lose twice that amount this season. 
H eisley paid $160 million to buy the Grizzlies from Seattle businessman John McCaw last year. Heisley has a history of buying under­performing companies and make this a 
success in 
Vancouver, 

then they are idiots. More than any­thing I can almost think of in my business career, I would like to make this a success. But when I get to the point where facts are staring me in the face, and I'm not going to be able to do it, then I'm going to have to face up to that." 
Heisley did not say how long he's willing to suffer financial losses. 
"The situation has nothing to do with how many millions or how much time," he said. "It becomes a question of when you get to the point where you say 'I can't make it; it's not going to turn round."' 
The Institute for Educational Initiatives would like to thank: Band link STEP Elston Teamwork for Tomorrow Saints Young Life for a successful beginnning of their commitment to serve the children of South Bend through tutoring and mentoring. If you are interested in finding out ~ore about_these programs or starting your own tutoring/mentoring program, please call 1-4447 or visit:http://ieiweb.flanner.nd.edu:8020/  

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 1, 2000 
MLB 

Please Recycle 
Valentine, Phillips sign 
The Observer. 
three-year contracts 
NEW YOHK 
Bobby Valentine and Steve Phillips insist they have learned to work together. 
Putting stock in a detentc reached during a season that saw the New York Mets reach the World Series for the first time since 1986, the team agreed to three-year contracts with both manager Valentine and GM Phillips. 
''What's happening here is a sign of' some stability," Valenline, the only manager lo take the Mets to the postsea­son in consecutive years, said Tuesday. "It's a lot of weight off my mind. We're going for­ward absolutely together, absolutely on the same page. Steve and [ are going to demonstrate that this is a team effort. 
"We're going to put forth an effort that will rival those who locked hands and climbed mountains to plant flags dur­ing wars." 
Valentine had been under contract until midnight Tuesday. The Heds reportedly were denied permission to talk with him during the playoffs, and there are three other managerial jobs open. 
Phillips and Valentine have had a rocky relationship. 
It might have bottomed out in June 1999. when Phillips fired three of Valentine's coaches. All of the current coach es' con tracts are up now. 
"The one thing we've both had to deal with is forgive­ness," Phillips said. "There have been times either one of us has felt offended by the other, by something said or something done. We've proba­bly both held on to some thing~ longer than we should have. 
Division is nothing new for Mets management. 
The team's co-owners, Fred Wilpon and Nelson Doubleday, hardly speak. Wilpon want~ a new ballpark, while Doubleday prefers that Shea Stadium be refurbished. 
Neither Wilpon nor Doubleday was at Tuesday's news conference to announce the signings. Phillips said they were at the major league own­ers' meeting in Chicago. 
A turning point for Phillips and Valentine seemed to be the fallout from a speech Valentine made in April at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School of Business. 
A Penn student, who later apologized for making some things up, posted on the Internet critical comments about the Mets attributed to Valentine. Phillips canceled a scouting trip to fly to Pittsburgh, where the Mets were playing. 
"He let some stuff out. I let some stuff out," Valentine said of their talk about what Phillips called "Whartongate." 
"When you do that, it's always easier to go forward." 
Said Phillips: "I think we had a cleansing. That made it a much smoother ride.... 
"We've had ups and downs, things we've agreed and dis­agreed on. Sometimes in New York. the issues become big­ger, but we got through that one and we're going to get through the next one." 

Most ND S,tudents 
Make Healthy Choices i 
gi 
l '[ 
:::, lja 
I .e f 
l 
i 
l

More than 80% drink only once 
i

a week or less frequently. 
f

Many ND students choose 5 NOT to drink alcohol." 
J 
A message from PILLARS with Alcohol & Drug Education 311 LaFortune Student Center University of Notre Dame (219) 631-7970 http://www.nd.edu/~aldrug/ 



Wednesday, November 1, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page I 5 
MLB 
Piniella signs three-year contract extension with Mariners 
Associated I'ress 
SEATTLE 

When Lou Piniella finished his last regular-season home game against the Texas Rangers, the Seattle 
Mariners manager went into the bath­room and cried. 
"It might have been my last 


g a m ~ Piniella there. Piniella said Tuesday. "It was very emotional.'" · Piniella figures to be at Safeco Field many more times, agreeing Tuesday to a three-year contract with the Mariners. "We had avery successful sea­son in Seattle, and we're looking 
forward to building on that," Piniella said. ''I've been in Seattle for eight years, and there's a lot of loyalty there." 
Last week, the Mariners offered a new contract worth about $6.5 million to $7 million over three years. according to several reports. Piniella report­edly earned $1.3 million last sea­son and terms of the new deal were not immediately available. 
"As he demonstrated again this year, Lou is one of tho most tal­ented managers in the game," Seattle general manager Pat Gillick said. "There was never any doubt in our mind that Lou was coming back because I think this is where his loyalty was and where he wants to be." 
Mariners chief executive officer Howard Lincoln called signing the fiery Pineilla "our top priori­ty." 
Under Piniella, the Mariners 
teci ., 
have been to the playoffs three times in six seasons. They won a franchise-best 91 games this year and beat the Chicago v\lhitc Sox in their AL division series before losing in six games to the New York Yankees in the league championship series. 
Piniella received permission this week to talk with the Cincinnati Reds, the team he managed to a World Series title in 1990. Media reports had Piniolla going to Cincinnati if the Reds could match the Mariners' offer. 
However, Piniclla said Cincinnati never made a final offer, and he made the decision to return t'o Seattle without knowing what the Reds might do. 
"They've told my agent that I was their number one choice and they were trying to put a pack­age together," Piniella said. "But as I told Howard, it could have 
.,.,,,..,., 
11p t() / 

been zero and it could've been $10 million. I don't know. It never got that far." 
Piniella said he thought Cincinnati was "a great baseball town" and voiced his support for Reds general manager Jim Bowden. 
"There's a lot of good things about the Heds organization, and I wish them the best of luck," Piniella said. 'Tm just happy to get this sit~~tio~ done. I had to make a dec1s10n. 
Piniella and Gillick said their next priority would be signing All-Star shoi:tstop Alex Rodriguez, who became a free agent Monday and will likely break baseball's record for aver­age salary, a mark currently held by Toronto's Carlos Delgado at $17 million. 
"We've got to get Alex signed," Piniella said. "Everything else will be handled as the winter goes on, but that's the first thing we· have to do." 
Piniella, whose tenure in Seattle was occasionally marked with outbursts on and off the field, praised Seattle's fans, his staff and Safeco Field, the Mariners' new ballpark, and said he looked forward to the next three years. 
"When you talk about Seattle now, our organization. it's in the top ten and probably closer to the top five or six of all the orga­nizations in baseball, especially with the fan support that we get and the ballpark," said Piniella. who previously managed the Yankees and Reds. ''I've enjoyed it there, and we love the town. You're not going to find a nicer city to work in." 
The only drawback, Piniella said, was the lengthy night between Seattle and his home in Tampa, Fla. He credited his wife of 33 years, Anita, with having the patience to deal with the time away from home. 
"It's harder for her than for anybody else. She's the one who makes it work," Piniella said. "She's a special lady and I'm very happy to have her as my wife." 
And how did Sweet Lou plan to celebrate his new contract? 'Tm going to take my grand­daughter trick-or-treating," he · said . 
.
. 
·.·. \ <.<.•u}.••
.. .. .. .. 
••·••·•t••••.•. 
,1,,1. s 
·::::;:;:.:.:. 

November 7 -November 10 9am -9pm November 11 9am -5pm free admission open to the public Century Center Convention Hall B 
120 South St. Joseph St.. South Bend, IN 46601 
We accept VISA, MasterCard, American Express~: J.Crew credit cards, casl1, and personal checks (with proper identification). 
Directions, From tile North or South St Joseph Street 1s anorthllound one-way street, the continuation of Business US 31. through downtown South Bend. From the South, the Century Center rs on the riglit side of tile street next to the river. Tlte parking lot rs on tile soutr, side af the Genter. from the North. US 31/933 becomes Main Street (one-way sout/Jbound) in downtown South Bend. follow southbormd. turn lett to Jetter son. turn left to SL Josepil Street Century Center is on the right side from the East· Indiana Toll Road 80190 westbound. look for South Bend Exit 71 Notre Dame. Turn nght at the bottom of {he ramp, head southbound CJn US 311933 into the middled town. Turn left at Jetterson Street into the Century Center parking lot. 294 w,sthou11d. exit Route 12 luwards Nile,. Gros', US JI arrd St Joseph River Exit US 31/933 to South Bend. Take aleft on Jefferson Street. Century Center parking is at the end ot the street. from the West Indiana Toll Road 80/90 eastbound, look for South Bend Exit 77 Notre Oam.e. Turn right at the bottom of tlie ramp, head southbound on US 31/933 into the mrddle at the town. !urn lel1 at Jefferson Street into the Century Center parking lot. 294 e,stbound. across !he Micl11gan state line. thn second exil is marked Roule 12 Niles. Exit and turn riglll nn Roule 12. Cross US 31 and SUoserh River. Exit US 31/933 to South !lend. Take aleft 011 Jefferson Street Centur, Centor parking rs at the end of the street 
Salsa Ni[ht Every Thursday 
September 28  October 5th  October26  
El Son De Aquf  Freddy Kenton  Benji  
y Los Ases Del Merengue  y Su Merenbanda  
November2  November30  December 7th  
El Son De Aquf  El Son De Aquf  Fuerza y Alma  

The Club Landing • 1717 Lincolnway East • South Bend, IN. 
FRIENDS WORLD PROGRAM 
LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY 
EXPLORE THE 

WORLD'S RELIGIONS while earning college credit 
• Study for a full academic year in Taiwan, Thailand, India and Israel 
• 
Eam up w 30 undergraduate crcdm 

• 
Pursue your academic scudil!s of religion, anthropology, and intmwrirmal srudies chmugh readings, lectures and participation in religious and cultural rituals and aaiVlcies 


• Experience l,fc in a Buddhist temple. a Tibetan monmtery, a Hindu mission 
FRIENDS WORLD PROGRAM loNGlsIAND
(631) 287-8474 lJNlYFRS9:f_,. 
e-mail: fu.@southampton.liunet.edu J_~ www.southampton.edu/fw 
GLOBAL EDUCATION FOR SOCIAL CHANGE 

page 16 

The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 1, 2000 
Murphy 
continued from page 20 
you." 
As a freshman, skeptics dis­counted Murphy's ability to play at the Big East level. Ile proved the critics wrong by winning Big East Bookie of the Year, then lopped that off by earning Big East Player of the Year as a sophomore. 
Now a giant poster of Murphy hangs on the wall in LaFortune's Huddle Mart, just one more assurance that the 6­fool-10 junior docs not escape unrecognized. 

Wherever Murphy goes on campus, people notice. Heads turn when he enters a room. Students stop talking when he passes on the quad. 
"The more games you win, the more people realize who you arc," teammate and friend David Graves said. "The better he's gotten as a player, obvi­ously, thn more people recog­nize him." 
The spotlight shines brightest on Murphy on home football weekends. lie attracts hordes of followers, so many that attending the games them­selves has become all but impossible. and Murphy's learned to avoid the dining hall following games. 
"There's no going into the dining hall after a football game -it's just a circus," Murphy said. "It's hard to hide when you're ducking through the door." 
The realization that he's not just an averagfl college student hit Murphy with hurricane force last month, when the 20­year-old was caught inside Finnigan's Irish Pub Oct. 13. 
Of the 147 minors cited in the bar, four -Murphy, team­mates Tom Timmermans and Jere Macura and football play­er Gerome Sapp -had their names in the papers. Murphy's presence became the lead story on ESPN.com. 
"It was a bad decision and it was a mistake," Murphy said of going to the bar. 
When police entered the bar, Murphy knew instinctively that the raid would become big news. 
So he called his mom in Arizona from inside Finnigan ·s to tell her before she had a chance to read it in the news­paper. 
Murphy, who doesn't drink, also asked the police to give him a breathalizer test. The officers told him the test wasn't necessary. The problem was not whether Murphy was drinking or not: the problem was that he was a minor in a tavern. 
Although police said the drinking was not an issue, TV stations, newspapers and Internet sites across the nation reported that Murphy had been caught drinking and carrying false identification at Finnigan's. Only the latter was true. 
Within hours of the bust, l\1urphy reported to Coach 
Pata~onia 
excltisively 
at-.~ 
Sminute~
from CIUTPCIST 
Campus :J•Nif 
~lnew,y-
Call 259-2000 for more details 


Brey's ollice, ready to face the consequences of his actions. "Troy was in my office at 8 
a.m. and took it like a man," Brey said. "I think Troy's disap­pointed in himself, and he accepts full responsibility for the situation as do Jere and Tom." 
The next day. when practice began, media attention focused on Finnigan's rather than on the team. 
While Murphy ate breakfast with the team, he saw a freeze frame of himself and Timmermans as the lead story on the local morning newscast. At the same time, his mom was reading about the Finnigan's fiasco in the newspaper in Arizona and his dad read about it from his New Jersey home. 
"That's the kind of attention that this team doesn't need" Murphy said. 'Tm supposed to be one of the leaders on the team and a captain, and it's something that a captain doesn't do." 
While Murphy owns up to his mistake, the extent of the national media attention sur­prised him. 
"It was a wakeup call," Murphy said, "I came back to school to do things that college kids do and be a college kid. I was doing things that college kids do, and it kind of opened my eyes that I can't do that kind of thing anymore." 
"[ just have to recognize that things athletes do around cam­pus are recognized," Murphy added. 
Not all actions gain equal attention, however. 
Rarely does one see a story about how Murphy signed a bag full of hats for his dorm rector. how he rushed off after classes one recent day to speak to a grade school assembly or how he's stayed laid back and grounded despite the swarm of fans. 
"One thing I really respect about Troy," said friend and teammate Matt Carroll, "is that no matter how much attention he gets from the media and fans and little kids asking for autographs, he really hasn't changed at all." 
Murphy's maintained the goofy streak that led him to bleach his hair blonde this summer, but he's also matured. 
· As a kid. he used to run away from home when his parents scolded him, usually for not 
~,u,~_•
b 
~.~ 
"'!'I 

·. 
.
-

-...,_ 

Now's the time ... to finish your degree at BETHEL COLLEGE 
Adult Education for Today's Busy Lifestyles 
• Experience a nontraditional environment 
• Attend accelerated classes 
• 
Advance your career 

• 
Realize your dreams 


• Focus on values 
Call Today! 
219-257-3350 or 800-422-4251 aduttprograms@bethel-in.edu 
KEVIN DALUl\,VThe Observer 

All-American basketball player Troy Murphy, pictured above at an April press conference announcing his decision to stay in college rather than enter the NBA draft has become at ease with media attention during his three years at Notre Dame. ' 

cleaning his room. 

"He was always a good boy, 
but he had thP terrible habit 
that if he was told to clean his 
room, he would pile it up 
instead of clean it up," his 
mom, Christine Murphy, said. 
"When we told him to clean it 
up, he would be independent , 
walk down the driveway and 
hide behind the boulder that 
was on our front lawn." 

After an hour or two, Murphy 
decided not to run away after 
all and trekked the 200 feet 
back to his house. It's a good 
thing he grew out of that 
phase, since hiding is no longer 
an option. 

So many hassles -from the former Little League coach in New Jersey who leaves a nasty phone message after Notre Dame lost to Rutgers to the constant rumors about Murphy jumping to the NBA. 
Is playing basketball for Notre Dame worth all the headaches? 
Murphy doesn't hesitate for a second. 
With a nod and a grin, Murphy says, "It's worth it." 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program 2001-2002 
INSTITUT o'ETUDES POLITIQUES (SCIENCES Po) 
PARIS, FRANCE 
INFORMATION MEETING WITH 
PROF. PASCAL DELISLE, SCIENCES PO AND GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2000 209 DEBARTOLO 4:45 PM 
-----~--­
-~~--------------------· --­
Wednesday, November 1, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Got Sports? Call 1-4543 
Or[and'o Consort 
(}\{__£W Str,rwlierries, '1%-w ~uf&erries. SA(usic and cfeastin9 in ~die-vaf and Cf:ar[z: CJZ_enaissance Cf:urcpe 
Sunday, %vem&er 5, 2000 2 pm. ~nen&er5 .A...uditorium, Snite ~seum 
c)lckets ~quired: S3 students• Sb senlO!'S • S8 <l'{g)/~ empfo-yees • S10 fjCllel'W admission cYickets avaifa&re at the <Je;fortune CJ3ox Office, (219) 631-8128 
cfor complete in ornu1tion, visit http://www.ncf.«d"u/~con oers or calf (219) 631-6201 
Soccer 
continued from page 20 
Despite the contribut,ions of the tri-captains the defensive leader in the game for the Irish was sophomore midfielder Andreas Forstner. Forstner ­one of only two Irish players to start each game this season ­was named Big East Defensive Player of the Week earlier in the day. 

In Notre Dame's 2-0 victory over West Virginia in the team's final Big East confer­ence. Forstner anchored a strong Irish backline that allowed the Mountaineers only five shots the entire game. 
Forstner and the Irish line shined again Tuesday night. allowing only 8 shots to the Jaguars. IUPUI senior forward 
Thies Hermann -who had scored 31 points this season coming into the game -was limited to only four shots, tak­ing all four Jaguar shots on goal. 
While the Irish take down the nets until spring practice, the Jaguars continue their sea­son on Saturday as they com­pete in the Mid-Continental Conference Tournament in Macomb, Ill. 
LIZ LANG/The Observer 

Sophomore Erich Braun, shown above, kicks past an IUPUI player in the Irish double-over­time tie. 
~-------------------------------------------------··-----·----------, 

Frida Nov 3rd 
Stepa Center 8pm
Tickets on sale at LaFun Infodesk 9am
$MC ND HCC12' '_ students
$i5non-students 

.---------------------------~-~~---­
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November l, 2000 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Casey cleared from charges of assault 
A.sociatcd Press 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. 

Penn State quarterback Rashard Casey was cleared Tuesday of a charge he beat an off-duty police officer unconscious outside a New Jersey bar. 
Casey and Desmond Miller were charged in May with aggravated assault on Patrick Fitzsimmons as the officer left a bar in Hoboken, N_J. 
Ed DeFazio, deputy first assistant prosecutor for Hudson County, N.J., said tho grand jury did not find proba­ble cause to return an indict­ment against Casey, but returned an assault charge against Miller. 
A message left for Miller's lawyer, Alfonso Hobinson III, was not immediately returned Tuesday night. 
The grand jury's action ends the case against Casey, although the quarterback could be called as a witness against Miller, DeFazio said. 
Last week, several newspa­pers reported that Casey had been indicted by the grand jury. Prosecutors said at the time they could not comment until the grand jury had com­pleted its business. 
Casey's lawyer. Dennis McAlevy, said he had not yet 
been able to tell his client the 
news because Casey was at 
practice. 
"He never hit anybody," McAlevy said. "There's no question in my mind that the chief of police of Hoboken knew that, and he's the reason that this happened." 
Chief Carmen LaBruno was 
"somewhat surprised" at the 
grand jury, bul said "I must 
respect that decision." 
LaBruno said three eyewit­nessP.s said they saw Casey hit the officer, who is not yet ready to re turn to duty. 
McAlevy praised the grand jury. 
"They looked at five days of testimony and rewarded my faith in Rashard, and Joe Paterno's faith in Rashard," McAlevy said, referring to the Penn State coach. 
McA!evy said they will fight a lawsuit against Casey by Fitzsimmons, who seeks an unspecified amount of money as compensation for "severe and painful injuries." 
Police said Casey punched Fitzsimmons, and that Casey and Miller kicked Fitzsimmons repeatedly in the head after he left a bar on May 14. Police said the men were angry that Fitzsimmons, who is white. left the bar with a black woman. 

Vick to sit out against No. 3 Miami 
.Associated Press 

BLACKSBURG, Va. 
An injured ankle is expect­ed to keep Michael Vick on the sideline for the start of second­
r a n k e d Virginia Tech's showdown with No. 3 Miami on Saturday. 
Coach F r a n k 


beamer Vick s a i d Tuesday that he planned to start Dave Meyer at quarter­back against the Hurricanes "and that's how we're going to practice this week." But Beamer didn't rule out the possibility that Vick, the Hokies' marquee player, would at least see some play• ing time. "My mindset right now is Dave Meyer will be our start• ing quarterback in the game against Miami," he said. "Then after that, let's see what else happens." Vick sprained his right ankle against Pittsburgh last weekend and did not practice Tuesday. Meyer, a fifth-year senior, replaced Vick late in the second half and was 7 of 13 to lead the Hokies' 37-34 
comeback over the Panthers. 
Though Meyer got the win, there's little question the Hokics would rather have Vick against the Hurricanes, who are expected to present Virginia Tech 's greatest chal• lenge of' the season. 
The winner of the game will likely claim the Big East title and have a shot at the nation­al championship. 
"Our backs are against the wall. That's the way it's been the last few ball games and that's the way it is this week," Beamer said. "We're going to Miami to play a real­ly great football team." 
Beamer said it was impor­tant for the team to have direction and not get caught up in "what ifs." 
"I don't want to 'what if.' I think what's important for our football team is to say, 'OK, this is what we've got. Now let's go play,"' he said. "Everybody is going to say, 'Who's going to play? Who's not going to play.' To me, that's not the issue.... The issue is whoever's going to be in there is going to play their very hardest, their very best." 
Vick, who's not putting any weight on his ankle and is using crutches to walk, gave himself a Wednesday dead­line to determine whether he'd start Saturday. He said he thinks he'll have to prac­
f@t ~ @6!8U$nf 
f@t tn@m An@w,I 

1~r,1(:1f6i"1•i-ntJ• rl,1lfl,,'( --tl,{l,1.,i:wrn,.t;f.fcr 1-5 (1odt' IJf.f r/rii.:"rrs'r0ci l:f.1 rlf,..,.w;,,,) 
to·lt'fi,,r/unuilP rlr'f,t(;;.,.; -­1M''l°@rn.l,;(5t' I}-? (r.'11:, 
c,Alt'r,,/) (••lJ• / 1,lt,i \<•if j
ttl r (~-,)(J,J f<>/ ® (yr,,121 r,/ 
FOR Mt<i rtr,•{tM,1' SEND YOUR CRUSH A CAN OF ORANGE CRUSH. WHEN THEY RECEIVE IT. THEY CAN PAY ONE DOLLAR TO GET YOUR NAME. BUT rtrm't ·1or~t'"I'(,/-THE MORE CASH --"INSURANCE MONEY" --YOU LAY DOWN, THE MORE /j(111,-r r~rtu;/i fil'J,,<r trs•JJ('J,jj TO DISCOVER YOUR TRUE IDEN­
TITY. ALL PROCEEDS GO TO BENEFIT 
SPECIAL OLYMPICS !~ LOGAN CENTER 
SPONSORED BY STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
NDH AND SDH FIVE TO SEVEN PM NOVEMBER l ~ $ 
tice by then to be ready to start. A special brace that Vick could wear on the lield was expected to arrive by Wednesday. 
Beamer said Meyer did very well last week despite not having much playing time. Ile said Meyer would be an even better quarterback if he just got more chances with the first team. 
"He's tall, he's athletic. He can throw the football. He's smart," Beamer said. "I think it's obvious he's not quite as quick as Michael. He doesn't throw the ball quite as quick. His release is not like Michael's and he probably doesn't throw quite as far as Michael." 
Meyer said he's prepared to start if need be. 
'Tm ready," he said. "From week to week, I prepare to start whether I'm the backup or the starter." 
Hokies starting flanker Andre Davis also is listed as questionable for Saturday. 
Regardless of who starts at quarterback, the 1-Iokies are preparing for a fierce battle against the Hurricanes. 
"Either way, it's going to be a war," senior tailback Andre Kendrick said. "Of course this is Mike's team, but if he's not able to play, we have Dave. Dave has proven he can get the job done." 


Wednesday, November l, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
EXHIBIT A: MAXIM. EXHIBIT 9: COSMOf'OLITAN, CONTAINS NUMEROVS PHOTO CONTAINS NUMEROUS PHOTOS OF SCANTILY Ct.AD WOMEN. Of SCAt-n:rlY CLAD WOMEN. a.ASSU:5.S. SMUT. 50/>HISTICAnb. REFINED. 
Fox TROT 
SASICALLY PtE,
WHAT'S LET'S SEE...THERE'S 
PIE, P\E ANO
FoR LUNCH CHICICE.N POT PIE, 
MoRE PIE.
TODA'\'? PIZ.ZA PIE, CHE~"I' 
I PIE ANO ,'.PPLE PIE. 

' 
TOM KEELEY 
WITH THE LINE SO  I DON'T KNOW  
THINLY O~AWN. HOW ARE  ABOUT YOU. BUT  
WE TO KNOW THE  IT'S GONNA TAKE  
ME~OF  
CAREFUL STUDY  


BILL AMEND 
YOU Do THIS JUST To YOU ICNOW, TORMENT THoSE oF OS YOU'RE THE 
~ WITti OUR TillG MIDTERM 3.li+15q-Tl1 
t ToOA'f, Dorf'T You? PERSo~ To ! A'SIC ME THAT. I 
TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 
The. ra:h :t. 
C.ov\d 1111e. w,~, b11+ +'\e ~",~ ore. l"~t -t'OO 0.l\M~,n~-­
-~.,--) 


EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPECROSSWORD 

ACROSS 31 Guadalajara 57 "Jabberwocky," CELEBRffiES BORN ON THIS VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't
gold for one1 Raft material 
DAY: Marcia Wallace, Lyle Lovett, overspend on products that lead you 
32 Dollface 59 "Have mercy on 
James J. Kilpatrick, Betsy Palmer, to believe they can do wonders for
6 Jose's home me!,"e.g. 
Barbara Bosson you. False beliefs could easily lead to
33 Forever, 

Happy Birthday: You will win disappointment Discuss your inten­
10 Fill in time on poetically 63 Stravinsky ballet 
the hearts of those you deal with this tions with those knowledgeable first.
stage performed in 
37 Attack deterrent 

year. You can make an impact on any 000
14 It has a floor but Sydney? 
situation and should make a concert­LIBRA (Sert 23-0ct 22): Be pre­
39 Monsoonal

no ceiling 66 Campbell's 
ed effort to bring order to any chaos pared to dea with overindulgent
41 Radio feature soup instruction 15 Canned 
that you encounter. Your no-non­individuals on the home front. Be sense attitude, coupled with your careful not to leave the house with­
16 Mozart's "Dalla 42 Newly 67 Grainy pasta 
ability to use past experience, will out checking the essentials: stove, 
sua pace," e.g. 45 Bum slightly 68 Salk's target 
lead you in a successful direction. furnace lights, etc. 00 17 O'Toole film 48 Prefix with 69 listening 
Your numbers: 9, 14, 22, 27, 35, 41 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Con­Delays will result if you get confused fusion reigns if you try to make sense while traveling. Take precautions 
playing in athlete devices 
Sydney? 49 Donahue film 70 Hearing in open 
out of the emotional problems facing and let those at your destination
showing in 

20 Vindictive Greek court 
you. Keep your ideas to yourself. know that you'll be late. You will
Sydney?

goddess 71 Turn back 
Deception at work will tum into a need to be careful how you word 
52 Improvisational 

series of bad events. 00 things today. 000
21 Comme ci, composition 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec.
comme ~a 
DOWN 
Travel will not be as you planned. 21): Don't get involved in joint ven­
55 Site of the 22 High times? 

Don't be mesmerized by people tures. You will lose money if you
1 Not just onePiazza del 
pushing their philosophies on others. decide to invest in a risky financial
23 Villainous Popolo 2 Sign of old age 
You must come up with your own scheme. Gambling will most defi­
25 Moral anguish 56 Faith of 3 Lascivious look 
beliefs, and not follow somebody nitely be out of the question. 000 else's. 000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):
27 Mercer tune 5½ million 4 Antipasto staple 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't Be honest with yourself. You may
sung in Sydney? Americans 5 "Gimme !" 
overspend on children or luxury have to take a harder look at your
(start of anTowa 
items. You need to look into how you ulterior motives regarding a part­
can help older family members. Take nership. New relationships are care of paperwork that will affect apparent. 000 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE State cheer) 
6 Vatican dogma 
Puzzle by Edgar R. Fontaine 
your investments. 000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):7 X or Y or Z 27 Body of an 47 Dashboard abbr. 58 Seep CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your Don't get involved in love triangles. 8 Lady of a organism 50 Table linens 60 Humdinger partner may not be completely hon­Secret affairs will come back to haunt 6-Across est with you. Take your time decid­you. Confusion while traveling
28 Lecturer, briefly 51 ThinkPad, for 61 Abu Dhabi 
ing what to do about the situation. will result in unusual experiences.
9 Web site clutter 
29 Rocket's sound one leader Consider the possibility that your Don't abuse medications or other 10 Skedaddled 30 Put up 52 Church offering 62 Ever's partner nagging may be the reason for the stimulants. 000 problem.00 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):
11 Hard wear? 34 Singer Coolidge 53 Actor Milo 64 Overly 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Col­Unsavory financial dealings are
54 Understandable 65 Kind of driver
12 Comportments 35 Drug cop leagues may try to make you look apparent. Don't lend money to 13 Analyze bad. Be careful not to give them any friends. Organizations may not be 36 Nobelist Wiesel ammunition You need to keep your. up-front about their motives. It is
syntactically 
Answers to any three clues in this PLtZZle
38 Wheeled servers personal thoughts to yourself. Secret best to keep your cash for a rainy18 Siouan are available by touch-tone phone: affairs could easily become public. day.000
40 In place of that
language 1-900-420-5656 (95rt per minute). 000 
19 Not fulfilled 43 Mystic Annual subscriptions are available for the
MINI 
Birthday Baby: You will often throw caution to the wind and jump into B E E T 
A S T O R P I N S 24 Period's place 44 Best seller best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
whatever intrigues you with two feet. Your expansive way of viewing things 
T E S T Y S L O T 26 Christmas 46 Bouquet years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. can lead you into difficult scenarios, but your unique handling of problems will enable you to pull something positive out of any situation you face. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialastcom, astromate.com.} 
AND A 
© 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE PROBLEM: FOOD 
THE SOLUTION: MADISON CENTER 
Madison Center's Healthy O~ti07S for Problern Eoters (HOPE, proora1---n offers help, understanding and support for those vvho struggle \t1.nth eating drsorde,.,.s. 
Help 1s 3\.1ai!able. Please call tc)cic:l\'_ 
• 219/283-1280 
4C3 E. f\J7acHson, Soutb Bend 


Leading the way 

Kings come out on top ofthe Bulls 100-81 with the help of Stojakovic and Webber, who each scored 23.
PORTS 
page 12 

O
THE 

page 20 BSERVER Wednesday, November 1, 2000 
BASKETBALL 

Murphy masters living beneath microscope 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associace Sports Editor 
The phone rings steadily off the hook in Troy Murphy's dorm room. 
Murphy barely has time to replace the receiver between calls during the lone hour of the day spent in his room. 
Ile talks to his dad and sever­al friends, but the majority of the calls come from folks more interested in his value as a bas­ketball player than as a person. Thero is a voice-mail from a Chicago Tribune reporter, a call frum Irish coach Mike Brey. two calls from Bernie Cafarelli in Notre Dame's Sports Information office trying to arrange a photo shoot. 
The list goes on. 
Finally. Murphy gives up on trying lo accomplish anything in his room and goes Lo his sanctuary -the team locker room. Equipped with two com­puters, couches. a big-screen TV. a table and chairs, the newly renovated lounge area offers a quiet, distraction-free place lo study. 
As an All-American forward on a Notre Dame team in the midst of a revival, Murphy is one of the most sought-after basketball personalities in the NCAA this year. He knows that the attention goes along with the territory. 
"You're the one who's given lhe opportunity to play. You're the guy they're cheering for. You see some guy walking out on the street wearing your jersey," Murphy said. "It's pretty cool when il comes down to it, but if you get all that, a lot is expected of you." 

At times. however, the publicity gets out of hand. 
A few days earlier, a reporter called Murphy's room instead of following the pre­scribed route of going through Sports Information to arrange an interview. Murphy told the reporter he had the wrong room, granting him five min­utes of respite before the phone rang again. It was an operator. who told Murphy his mother and uncle were on tho phone. The story seemed a bit dubious, but Murphy said to put the call through. 
"Jt was the same guy. He called and told the operator that he was my uncle, and that there had been a family emer­gency," Murphy said. "That's a little ridiculous." 
The scrutiny wasn't always as intense. Murphy said. "A lot of people hello to somebody every time 

"It's changed a lot from my don't talk to me as much any-· you saw them freshman year, freshman year to now, the way more. You say hello, and they and now they don't talk to people act towards me," don't say anything. You said 
see MURPHY/page I 6 


MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish unable to edge over IUPUI in double-overtime tie 
Detter led the Irish in shots Byan Cox's second-half goal
By NOAH AMSTADTER 

taken, taking seven shots in proved to be all the Irish need­
Assistant Sports Editor 

the game. Dctter's classmate, ed in Notre Dame's 1-0 victory. defender Greg Martin, took This year's tie marked the The Halloween spooks may five more shots for the Irish. final career game fur the six have been too much for the The Irish were kept in check seniors in the Irish roster. Five Irish offense as the Notre by an impressive Jaguar of those six seniors were in the Dame men's soccer team defense. IUPUI goalkeeper starting lineup Tuesday night played to a double-overtime Armando Femia saved 14 shots -tri-captains Steve Maio, scoreless tie Tuesday night -seven total in the two over­Dustin Pridmore and Connor against IUPUI in Indianapolis. ti me periods -to keep the LaHose. to go along with mid­
The Irish conclude their sea­Irish from taking the game. fielders Griffin Howard and son with a 7-8-2 record, while Femia, a junior who attended Heggie McKnight. the Jaguars finish at 8-8-2 on South Bend's Adams High The tri-captains proved their the year. School excelled against the mettle once again on defense, 
The Irish failed to score Irish for the second year in a allowing the Jaguars only eight despite putting a season-high row. shots in the game. The defense 28 shots on goal. The Irish In last year's Oct. 5, match­was so strong that Notre Dame 
took seven shots in the first up between the two teams. sophomore goalkeeper Cole half, nine in the second half, Femia made nine saves while Straub made only three saves eight more in the first overtime allowing the Irish only one in the contest -all in the sec­and four in the second over­goal on 25 shots. The Irish ond period. time. defense also excelled in that 
Freshman midfielder Justin game. as graduated senior see SOCCER/page I 7 
Big East Semifinals at. Miami (OH) vs, Boston College .
SPORTS • Women's Swimming ' ~ Friday, 7:35 p.m . 
Friday, 7 p.m. 
at Miami (OH) quad meet 

.~ 
ATA Friday, 4 p.m . 
Men's Swimming • vs. Boston College ' at Oakland Saturday, Nov. 11 
~

GLANCE ~ 
Friday, 7:30 p.m. .~ 3:30 p.m. 
!/\~~ 
! i; 
d .\ 
l'-;·;· 
:,:,. 


( 
I 
j 
I 
NO POSTAGE NECESSARY IF MAILED INTHE UNITED STATES 

BUSINESS REPLY MAIL 
FIRST-CLASS MAIL PERMIT NO. 353 NORWALK, CT 
POSTAGE WILL BE PAID BY ADDRESSEE 
THE DANBURY MINT 47 RICHARDS AVENUE PO BOX4940 NORWALK CT 06860-0130 
lll1111ll,,l,,l,,ll,,ll,,,ll,,,,,,ll,,ll,ll,,,,ll,,I 
Celebrate Christmas 2000 with a charming Notre Dame Santa Claus! 

With a jolly "ho, ho, ho!" and a "go team go!" Santa is ready to cheer the Fighting Irish on to victory. Yes, that's right-jolly old St. Nick may wear his red-and-white outfit for Christmas, but the other 364 days he's Notre Dame proud 
in blue and gold. 
Now, you can celebrate Christmas 2000 with Notre Dame Santa ... a meticu­lously crafted, hand-painted sculpture overflowing with Irish pride. 
Brimming with pride and holiday spirit! 
Notre Dame Santa is absolutely bursting with school and holiday spirit. Santa's carrying a Notre Dame duffel bag, a team pennant...and, of course, his sack full of toys. And who better to keep him company at the big game than The Leprechaun, Notre Dame's beloved mascot! 
Each sculpture is meticulously crafted of cold-cast porcelain, a special blend of powdered porcelain and resin prized for its ability to capture the finest details. Skilled artisans then hand 
, ---------------• • RESERVATION APPLICATION • --• r • --• -----• •-, 
The Danbury Mint Send 47 Richards Avenue no money 
P.O. Box 4940 now. Norwalk, CT 06857 
IIO'l'B£ DAM£SAll'l'A 
YES! Please reserve Notre Dame Santa for me as described in this announcement. 
Name_________,,,--~-,-..,.._....------­
(P1ease print dearly.) 

Address________________ 
City_________________ 
State __________ Zip_____ 
Signature------,~---------­
<Au orders subject to acceptance.) 

Allow 2 to 4 weeks a~er initial payment for shipment. CSFHN760 
I I I 
.I 
oo3t 
IRISI 
_.) 
Even the cuddly teddy bear in Santa's sack is exquisitely detailed. 

paint every sculpture with brilliant holiday and team colors, from the cuddly teddy bear in Santa's sack of toys, to his blue and gold Notre Dame sweatshirt. 
Attractively priced; satisfaction guaranteed. 
Notre Dame Santa is officially licensed by the University of Notre Dame and available exclusively from the Danbury Mint. It is an 
exceptional value at just $75, payable in two convenient monthly install­ments of $37.50 (plus a total of $9 for shipping and handling). Order Notre Dame Santa at no risk. Your satisfaction is guaranteed. If, for any reason, you are not thrilled with your sculpture, return it within 30 days for replace­ment or refund. To ensure the earliest possible delivery of the ~fl1\ Fighting Irish's #1 fan, return the Reservation Application today! ~ 

.R, 

ikfJ~~ 
47 Richards Avenue• Norwalk, CT 06857 NDS/FSI 






