-
Showtime at Stepan 
Back to School 
last week's Verlical Horizon and Stroke 9 
A Michigan elementry school opened for the 

Tuesday
concert provided entertainment · 
first time following the 
for a diverse audience. 
shooting death ofa first grader. 
MARCH 7,
WorldNation . page 5
Scene . page 12 
2000 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 98 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 


Members consider revamping graffiti dance 

Virmontes to speak at SMC graduation 
By NICOLE HADDAD News Writer 
Helena Maria Virmontes, critically acclaimed author and professor of English at Cornell University, will deliver this year's Commencement address at Saint Mary's on May 20. 
Virmontes is originally from Los Angeles and has written extensively on the experiences of Mexican­American migrant workers in this country. Her short stories and novels focus on the lives of these Chicano families through the eyes of mothers, wives and daughters. 
She joined the ranks of renowned authors Tom Wolfe and Graham Greene when she won the prestigious John Dos Passos Prize for Literature in 1995. She was the first Latina to receive this award. 
In addition to Viramontes, three other pioneering women will speak and receive honorary degrees at the ceremony. Bernice Johnson Reagon is an African American musician and scholar who performs with Sweet lloney in the Hock, an internationally 
see SMC/page 4 

By HELENA RAYAM 
News Writer 
The Campus Life Council tackled freshman or.icntation concerns and passed three res­olutions during Monday's meet­ing. 
"We have to not put ourselves in the position of the upper­classmen, but the position of the freshmen," said student body secretary Luciana Reali referring to the freshman ori­entation events. 
The CLC gender relations committee members met with representatives from the Office of Student Activities to discuss freshman orientation activities with an emphasis on the graffiti dance. Student Activities is con­sidering changing this culmi­nating orientation event for first-year students because of issues surrounding the pres­ence of upperclassmen, alcohol and the discomfort of introvert­ed students. 
"When [freshmen] first come [to Notre Dame], they learn how to party in the wrong man­ner," said Ross Kerr, Student Union Board manager. "We learned that [Student Activities was] trying to put an end to the graffiti dance. 

"The graffiti dance at least forces you to talk to the other gender, but there are some people who are afraid or that. I can see both sides," said Kerr. 
"I don't like the idea that my virility is going to be measured by the number of signatures I got on a T-shirt," said Faculty Senate representative Edward Manier, expressing his opinion on how some students might feel about the dance. "You want to have as little stigmatization as possible." 
CLC members discussed ways to change the structure of the dance or incorporate different activities into it so those stu­dents do not feel pressured to obtain signatures. 
Kerr said that Student Activities might consider having a video dance party as an alter­native to steer away from the signature element of the dance. Suggestions from CLC members included keeping the dance but not allowing students to specify preferences by markers. Another suggestion was to change the theme. 
St. Edward's Hall rector Father Dave Scheidler recom­mended having a fiesta with Latin music, a luau or another 
see CLC/page 4 



Bush, Gore close to clinching nominations 
By BRIGID SWEENEY News Writer 

After months of stump speeches and a week of espe­cially furious campaigning, today may be a day of reck­oning for the four major presidential candidates as 16 states hold primaries and caucuses. 
While the race for dele­gates in both parties has been heated throughout. Vice President Al Gore and Texas Governor George Bush are poised to take commanding leads in their respective races and could potentially garner enough delegates today to all but win the nomi­nation contests. according to Notre Dame government pro­fessor Peri Arnold. 
Though Arizona Sen. John 
Source: ConpilBd frum AP Wire ,.,:,offs 
McCain could win nearly all of New 
close to the 1034 needed for nomina­
England and other key states, includ­
tion. 
ing New York, Bush will likely come 
McCain lost to Bush on Feb. 29 in 
out victorious in the Republican race, 
Virginia and Washington, and has 
experts predicted. 

been on the defensive since. Some of 
"He should emerge with somewhere 
his problems stem from last week's 
in the high 600s to the low 800s in 
attack on leaders of the religious
delegates," Senator Paul Coverdell (R­
right, which alienated potential sup­
Ga.). a Bush supporter. told the 
porters, according to Arnold. 
Washington Post on Sunday. These 
"The attacks hurt McCain politically
de!figates, in addition to the 340 
because 28 percent of Republicans 
Delegate tally 
Here is the currenl beakdown of the presidential preferences of delegates to the OemocraUc and Republican national conventions, based on the latest primary and caucus results. 
DEMOCRATII: 
Total delegates 

Go,e  482  
Bradley  57  
Uncommitted  0  
TOTAL  539  
Needed to nominate  2,170  
Total delegate votes  4,339  
IIEPllBLICAN  
Total  

delegates 

Bush  170  
McCain  105  
Keyes  5  
Uncomm11ted  12  
TGrAL  292  
Needed to nominate  1,034  
Total delegate votes  2,066  

"'IJ '~.'ftp 

'1 16 states Total delegates selected: 1315 Democrats, 613 Republicans 
JOSE CUELLARffhe Observer 
AP 

identify with the religious right," he said. "McCain has been verv hot -he amazingly found a languag~ of reform that gels different groups. from mod­erate Republicans to independents to loosely-connected Democrats, but then he got stymied in these attacks." 
Arnold said McCain's reformist appeal will make the senator a threat in today's contests, though the odds 
see TUESDAY/page 6 

expected on March 14, place Bush 
INSIDE COLUMN QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
"There is a student "It was a tough time "We know we can "What I like about 
Toniorro-w opinion that the Senate to make that call, but make it to the.finals this sport ... is that isfull ofsneakiness we shouldn't have and can compete with you're giving it your and illegitimacy. we been in that position. " Connecticut." all. You go out there


-we fast 

should end this. " with so much to lose 
Today we feast. Tomorrow we fast. That's the idea an}'Way. but what's the point? Bishop James Crawley, retired of this diocese and at 85 still going strong, gave an excellent homily this last Sunday on the idea of the Lenten Discipline as being focused on others and 
not merely on sacrificing chocolate or beer. In doing so we should increase our char­ity and other virtues. and conform our lives to that of Christ. 
While there is a certain value in sacrificing some­

thing you enjoy. it is only 
A.J. Boyd
complete if you take the time 
or money saved and devote ii 
to others, or make your 
assistant
L,mten discipline an active 
Viewpoint editor 
effort to improve the ,irtue 
in your lite and your charity 
to others. This could mean 
lreating security guard and waitresses as hard­working human beings, or even forgiving imma­ture pedanls who throw water bottles onto the 
arena floor. 
Nonetheless. some of the lraditional practices should be put into context and not simply taken for granted. Fasting is currently defined as a reg­ular meal and two smaller meals with no snack­ing. For a college student on the Flex-14 plan, this is ridiculous -you don't get that much food on a normal day. So try simpler eating at the nor­mal meals. Avoid ordering Papa John's or doing Fajita-'Rita nights. Whatever it is, the idea is not so much to starve yourself as offering up to God a cleansing of body and soul. The idea is also to make an effort to know communion with the poor of our Christian family by being mindful of the luxury that our dining halls offer us daily. 
The idea that we should abstain from meat, as we should all know, originated when meat was a regular luxury and the Roman families needed a boost in their fishing businesses. But red meat is hardly the common luxury. and no one really gets anything out of giving it up anymore. Instead, why not abstain from TV? After all, that's the sta­ple luxury of our society today. Or throw in N64, DVD or the Internet, depending on which you depend on most. Give the time to the Knights of Columbus. Circle K or some other charitable organization. Be mindful oflife without these technologies that we sometimes assume are our rights to have access to but which are in reality useless luxuries that more often distract us from our lives than add to it. And while you're at it, be charitable to guys who use phrases like "be mind­
ful." 
Lent is an opportunity for reconciliation and penance (and Mardi Gras is an opportunity to do things worth seeking penance for). but try to approach it in a new light this year. Actively seek to reconcile differences with family or friends. Try to reestabush a lost correspondence; have a reunion with separated friends; accept gracefully the annoying attention of that one friend who you always thought of as platonic but seems to have something else in mind. (Yes. I am serious about that last one.) Lent need not be a time of sack­cloth and ashes, but ofjoyful reunion brought about by sincere repentance, whether it is between you and God or you and a friend. 
In the mean time, have an exciting Mardi Gras! 
The l'iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of lhe aulhor and not necessarily tho.<w ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Erin Pirourek Emmett Malloy Erin LaRuffa Jenn Zaror,ki Helena Rayam 
Graphics Sports 
Jose Cuellar 
Kathleen O'Brien 
Production Viewpoint Brian Kessler Lila Haughey Lab Tech Betsey Storey 
The Observer (USl'S 599 2-4000) is publi,hcd Monday through Friday except during «am and vacarion period,. The Observer i, a member of rhe Assoc,arcd Pre.«. All reproducrion righrs are restrved. 

Matt Doherty Danielle Green ... It's very humbling."David Zachary Men's basketball coach, Women's basketball player, Alumni Hall senator, on the technical foul called on the team's view of the 
Tom Biolchini on the Senate's decision to against the Irish after a fan Big East tournament senior, on his experiencesrelease the student body 
threw a water bottle 
with boxing and 

presidential results elections 
on the court 
Bengal Bouts 
Compiled from U-Wire reports



OUTSIDE THE DOME 
UCLA students protest proposed same-sex marriage ban 
LOS ANGELES  nation dauses. This is a step in the  
Opponents of Proposition 22 held a rally Friday in a last-minute effort to get Californians to vote against Propostion 22 today. The proposition states that "Only  U_CLA  wrong direction." The speakers ranged from par­ents ()f gay children to rabbis and students. Most said that if the proposition passes, it would would  
marriage bctwPen  a  man  and  a  encourage hate crimes against the  
woman  is valid  or  recognized .in  gay community and send the  mes­ 
California." Supporters have said it  sage that hatred against gays is  
is  not an  attempt to  take away  acceptable.  
rights, but an effort to prevent the  The rally included  a  variety of  But  others  argued  that  
possibility that California could rec­ speakers who all called for help to  Proposition 22 is only meant to pro­ 
ognize same-sex marriages if they  convey their message to others.  tect the institution of marriage.  
are allowed in other slates.  Many argued that if this proposi­ "l don't agree that Proposition 22  
"Proposition 22  was r.reaterl to  tion passes, it would not change the  breeds ignorance and intolcranr.e of  
surgically  remove  gays from the  legal definition of marriage.  gays," said Michelle Becarra,  a  
community,"  said  Pat  Alford­ "A yes vote  on  22 doesn't make  local resident. "I just believe in the  
Keating, head of the UCLA lesbian,  anything illegal," said Megan Hall,  protection of marriage between  a  
gay.  bisexual  and transgender  a  graduate student in microbiology  man and woman, not a man with a  
(LGBT) mentoring program.  and molecular genetics. "But com­ man."  
"It validates the discrimination of  panies are starting to  use  this to  Other speakers urged the audi­ 
gays and tells  us  that  our  love  take away domestic partnership  ence to publicize the importance of  
d()esn't count," she added.  benefits and anti-gay bias discrimi­ this proposition to other voters.  

Grand jury indicts New Mexico student 
LAS CRUCES, N.M. 
A New Mexico State University graduate student and Border Patrol agent was indicted on four counts of extortion and fraud by a Grand .Jury Thursday. Leonel Baez, 22, was arrested in January for extortion and fraud for using his position as a Border Patrol agent to recover stolen property. "The Grand Jury found there was enough evidence to indict him on four charges of extortion and fraud," Jeff Lahann, assistant district attorney. said. Baez is accused of using his job status, threats and intimidation to coerce three women and their families into giving him money and jewelry he believed they stole from his girlfriend. Lahann said this case is very complicated and is related much to the state of mind Baez was in when he allegedly com­mitted the crimes. Baez will be arraigned a week from :vtonday and from there the case will go to district court where he will be tried. Baez has posted part of his bond with the court and is back at work with Border Patrol. Lahann said the Border Patrol most likely has to follow certain procedures and that is why he is able to continue working. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
Clinton nominates Columbia prof 
NEWYOHK 

Columbia Law Professor Gerard Lynch has been nom­inated by President Clinton to serve on the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. Lynch. who teaches criminal law at Columbia, would try both civil and criminal entry-level cases in this position. Senate confirmation hearings on the appointment have not yet been scheduled. "This is a tremendously impor­tant job and a tremendously important responsibility," Lynch said. "It's an honor to be nominated." Lynch hopes to stay on at Columbia even after assuming the judgeship but did not speculate as to how large his involvement with the school would be. Nominating a professor to a district court position is somewhat unusual, Lynch said, due to the perception that acade­mics would be better suited to the abstract legal wran­glings of appellate courts. Lynch, however, likes the idea of trying cases. Lynch was a clerk to Supreme Court .Justice William J. Brennan after graduating from Columbia Law School and was a 1mimber of the federal commission on the Iran-Contra affair, heading up the prosecution of General Oliver North. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

S Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather<" forecast for noon, Tuesday, March 7. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
~--,,..,.,.,.,,,. ......:... 
' H L Wednesday Q, 71 46 
•')-·;iC> 

Thursday Q 54 31 
'''... ' 
Friday , d:'.1 '"'45 Saturd~y 9. /.;
..;,~~ 
............. 

\ti 2000 AccuWeather, In¢. COLD WARM STATIONARY
• • ~ .ii•~··_,.i,,,· ...-: 
r,.n11£1: 
. 
l>/-<, 
'

® © D CJ ITI] D CI] ,.,,.r ~) ,4~ 
High Low Shower• hain T*storms Flurries Snow ... Sunny Pt. Cloudy Clo.._.dy
Sunday . ,f,9· 49 
v,a A5soc111rea Press 

:· -:;,../·d .., .._,.' ·,...._rt ,·"''" 
Atlanta 76 55 Las Vegas 58 42 Portland 55 36 Baltimore 72 47 Memphis 75 54 Sacramento 57 42 Boston 58 38 Milwaukee 67 47 St. Louis 68 52
~,4A,~p~Q Q: ~ u 

Showers T-storms Rain Flu"ies Snow tee Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 71 54 New York 60 48 Tampa 81 57 Via As.s.ociaf8d Pross GmphicsNat Hous1on 75 63 Philadelphia 56 39 Wash DC 69 58 

Tuesday, March 7, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

State dept. urges caution abroad 

Special to The Observer 
As the time approaches for spring break, many col­l(ige students are getting rearly for that much antici­patPd trip abroad. Most will have a safe and enjoy­able advi>nturt~. but for some. the trip will become a nightmare. J\ number of ruined vacations are cu.used by one or more of the following: drugs, alco­hol or disorderly behavior. 
Each year. more than 2,500 American citizens arc arrested abroad ­about half on narcolics charges, including posses­sion of very small amounts of illegal substances. A drug that may be legal in one country may not be legal in a neighboring nation. Some young people are viclimized because they mav be unaware of thi> laws. customs or standards of the country tlrny are vis­iting. 
Besides drugs, alcohol can also get U.S. citizens in troubln abroad. Students have been arrested for being intoxicated in public areas, for underage drink­ing and for drunk driving. Some young Americans go abroad assuming that local authorities will overlook such conduct. Many believe that they are immune from 
got news? 1-5323. 

Computer Science and Engineering Open House 
Engineering intents, check out the cool jobs you can have as a Computer Science or Computer Engineer. Tour our state-of-the-art labs. Talk to engineering students and faculty. ¼ 
Have some food; we start serving at 6 p.m. 
Don't be late. 
303 Cushing Hall Tuesday, March 7 6 to 7:30 p.m. 


e x a m n e y o u r a p t o n s 
prosecution in foreign lands because they arc American citizens. The truth is that. Americans arn expected to obey all of the laws of the countries they visit, and thosP who break these laws sometimes face severe penalties. 
Disorderly or reckless behavior is also to be avoided. In many countries, conduct that would not result in an arrest here in tlrn U.S. constitutes a viola­tion of local law. It is cru­cial that young Americans be awnrP of this risk as lhey are enjoying tlrnir time abroad. 
Being arrested is not the only thing that can happen on a foreign vacation. Young Americans have bi>en killed in automobile accidents, drownings and falls because of heavy cl.rinking and drug use. Sadly, others have been raped or rubbed because thev have found themsPlves in ~nfamiliar locales and incapable of exercising proper judgment. 
To have a safe trip, avoid risky behavior and become familiar with the basic laws and customs of the country. To obtain more information about traveling abroad, check the Department of State's web site at 
http://travel.state.gov. 

Dennis: nuns' murder shows greed 
By KAREN SCHAFF 
News Writer 
The story of four nuns mur­dered in El Salvador illustrates the greed for power, said Marie Dennis, din~ctor of the Maryknoll Office for Global con­cerns, in a lecture Mondav. 
The four women who· were murdered were ordinary people whose faith changed their lives, according to Dennis. 
"These women could have been anyone," said DPnnis. "[It isl a testimony of transformed lives." 
On December 20, 1980, nine mon tbs after the death of the Archbishop Oscar Romero. four American women were abduct­ed, raped and killed by Salvadorian soldiers. These sol­diers were trained in the United States and used guns made in the U.S., yet, nothing happened when these women -Ida, Mora. Dorothy and Jean ­were killed. 
Ida started her work in Chile, where she expPrienced poverty and oppression for the first time, Dennis explained. Ida also learned that government offi­cials were making threats against the Church in an attempt to discredit its mem­bers. 
Romero invited Ida to go tn El Salvador to continue her work with the poor. Shortly before her planned arrival, Romero died. 
Ida began to wonder about the message of the gospel and the power of the people. 
Ida's friend Clara, who was later killed while transporting prisoners, offered inspiration using the words of Jesus: "I am the way." It was then that these two women became completely engrossed in the poverty of the Salvadorians, said Dennis. 
Mora also faced the chal­lenges of poverty and despair, 
Dennis explained. Every day she saw the death of children and the misery of the poor. 
"The poor would give [their] life for some change," said Dennis. 
Dorothy started her work in 1974 by visiting homes and preparing people for the sacra­ment. Dennis quoted Dorothy: "They must continue preaching the Lord even if it means laying down your life." 
Jean was a coordinator of many of the events that led to strengthening poor communi­ties. She distributed food and educated those who could not go elsewhere. 
She was nicknamed St. Jean the Playful, even though she witnessed many deaths and "felt personally challenged to 

Survey: Freshmen have high aspirations 
Special to The Observer 
An annual survey of college freshmen indicates that while the academic aspirations of first­year students at Notre Dame are exceptionally high, they expect to use their knowledge as much for the common good as personal gain. 
Some 92 percent of Notre Dame's freshmen report they plan to earn an advanced acade­mic degree -including 43 per­cent who will pursue a master's degree, 17 percent a doctorate. 21 percent a medical. dentistry, or veterinary degree and 10 per­cent a law degree. By way of comparison, about 68 percent of students nationwide have similar plans. 
Hut as much as they are deter­mined to succeed, Notre Dame students place relatively less emphasis on financial gain than their peers. Some 62 percent say it is essential or very important to be well-off financially. 11 per-help these people cope," said Dennis. 

These women stayed in El Salvador at the price of their lives, Dennis said. They repre­sented the hopes and fears of this community. 
"It was a test of faith," she said. "It called us beyond what we are, to what we could be." 
Dennis said that this was the extraordinary story of four women who help us understand God. 
"Part of who we are is in their story," Dennis said. 
Her three-lecture series con­cludes tonight with a lecture entitled "Called to Respond: The Jesuits and Co-Workers Martyred at the University of Central America" in the Stapleton Lounge at 7 p.m. 
cent less than the national aver­age. 
At the same time, Notre Dame students reported far more inter­est than their peers in participat­ing in community action, influ­encing social values, becoming a community leader developing a meaningful philosophy of life and assisting those who are in diffi­culty. 
Not surprisingly, such altruism also is found in Notre Dame stu­dents before and during their college years. Almost 97 percent of the University's freshmen report they volunteered in the past year, r,ompared with 75 percent of students nationally, and 58 percent plan to continue with community service. 
Notre Dame freshmen are like­ly underestimating their future volunteer efforts; the University's Center for Social Concerns reports that almost 80 percent of Notre Dame students actually engage in volunteer projects dur­ing their four years on campus. 

some grnffiti dance adjust­ments. 

U.S. to aid flooded MozaDlbique
CLC 
'The idea that majority atti­

l.The investment results shown for the CREF variable annuity reflect past p~rformance and are not indicative of future rates Clf return.The.-.e returns and the value of the prin~ cipal you have invested will fluctuate, so the shares you own may be more or fess than their original price upon redemption. Foreign stork markets are subject to additional riski from changing currency values, inte,est rates,governmient regulations, and political and economic conditions.2.TIAA-CREF expenses are subject to change and are not yuaranteed fanhe future.3. Source: Morrnngstar,lnc. 12/J1199,tracking 279 world stock mutual fund>.TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional services. Inc.distributes CREF cer­tificat~s and interests in the TIAA Real Estate Account.Teachers Personal Jnve.stors SeTYices, Inc.distributes the variable component of the perwnaJ annuJties,mutual funds and tuitton savings agreement~.TIAA and TIM-CREF life lmumnce Co.issue insurance and a~nuities.TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services.Investment products are not FDIC ln$11red, may 1-valueand are not bank guaranteed. For more complete information on CRtF, including charges and expense,, call 1800 842-2776,ext. 5509,far 
the prospectus. R•ad it ca,elully before yau inVe<t or send money.CJ 2000TIAA-CRff 1100. 
continued from page 1 
ethnic theme, which Coalition Council representative Michael Fierro saict would attract more minority studenl'i. 
.. fA theme is] something that draws them rnor!" than just scribbling on someone's shirt," said Scheidler. 
He said that enrouraging stu­dents tu get numbers from stu­dents of the opposite sex missc>s the point that the dance is sup­posed to acquaint people with one another and help them adjust during the first week. 
"It turns the mentality into not meetin:; people, but getting a date," Scheidler said. 
He rncall!'d that beforn the gralliti dance became an evenl, students used to havfl sockhops in the Joyce Center that put less emphasis un meeting the opposite sex. 
"I met a lot of my lifelong friends at thal dance," Srheidler said. 
Once the freshman orienta­tion danre changed to an out­door luau, the dance began to take on a new form. he said. The dance also became more accessible to people other than freshman students. 
Now the event has turned into a "meat markeL." Scheidler said. 
"What happens a lot of times is that freshmen. sophomores and juniors come to the dance a little intoxicated and use it as an opportunity to meet fresh­man girls," said Reali, who serves on Lewis Hall's fresh­man orientation committee. 
Reali said that some of the shyer girls and international students in her dorm did not have a good experience at the dance. Fierro said that many ethnic students also feel "out of the loop" because of cultural adjustments during the first week. 
"There is a meat market mentality, but no one gets rejected," said Keough Hall senator and student body presi­dent-elect Brian O'Donoghue. "You need something to force the students to get involved. There's going to be culture shock regardless." 
Manier said he wanted to see 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
known women's a cappella music group. Reagon once served as director of the Smithsonian lnstitute's Black American culture program and as curator of the National Museum of American History in Washington. D.C. 
Sister Margaret Rita Brennan, who in 1953 was one of the first four women to receive a Ph.D. in Sacred Theology at the tudes are going to be enshrined institutionally is like saying, 'We're, ncvr.r going to change,"' Manier said. 
The CLC discussed switching thP time of the graffiti dance from Saturday night, and also possibly haviug two smaller North and South Quad dances instead. 
"Freshmen orientation is one of the only weekends when you can approach anyone and that's why we should have a campus-wide event," said stu­dent body vice president-elect Brooke Norton. 
"Keep the graffiti dance, but add an alternative," said cur­rent student body president Micah Murphy. 
Kerr is going to discuss the freshman orientation activities with the gender relations com­mittee and draft a resolution. 
In other CLC news: 
. The diversity committee drafted a resolution to make the diversity education pro­gram mandatory for transfer students. 
"It's so that studf'nts don't fall through Lhe cracks," Fierro said. 
ff approved, the program, which is mandatory for first­year studenl<1, will be given to all transfer students before mid-semester break each semester. 
. 
Members passed another resolution to stop parking on outdoor basketball courts. Currently some parking lots are used until 5 p.m., but this rule is not always enforced. Because of the upcoming Bookstore Basketball tournament, stu­dents will be using the outdoor courts more frequently and CLC members wanted to see that courts are available lo the student bodv. 

"By getti~g this done early, we're avoiding a conflict that I can definitely see right away," said Brian Rigney, co-chair of the Hall President's Council. 

. 
An additional resolution to have a student member on the University Committee for the First Year of Studies was also passed by the CLC. 


College, will also receive an honorary degree. A lecturer and author, she has been a life­long promoter of educating women in theology. 
Brigid Driscoll served for two decades as president of Marymount College in Tarrytown, N. Y. before her retirement last vear. A former Trustee of Sai~t Mary's, her most notable accomplishment was founding Marymount's Weekend College in 1976, which provides working individ­uals the opportunity to earn a college degree by attending weekend classes. 

When you see her, be kind. 

Her dog, Rebel and the rest of the family. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Clinton administration plans to announce debt relief for Mozamhique. which has been ravaged by catastrophic floods. 
Treasury Serretary Lawrence Summers is to dis-
C U S S 
details of the addi­tional debt relief for 
the south­e a s t African nation Tuesday, govern­ment officials said Monday. speaking on condition of anonymity. 
Unrler various international and U.S. initiatives, officials said, some debt relief has ber.n provided to the r.ountry. Specifics of the additional relief Summers is expected to dis<'uss were not immediately available. 
The State Department, chafing under criticism of U.S. rf'lief eITort.s in Mozambique, rejected allegations that the United 

RETIREMENT  INSURANCE  I  MUTUAL  FUNDS  TRUST SERVICES  '  TUITION FINANCING  
I  

While TIAA-CREF 
invests for the long term, it's nice to see performance 
like this today. 


TIAA-CREF delivers iMpressive results like these by combining two disciplined investment strategies. 
In our equity accounts, for example, we combine active management with enhanced indexing. With two strategies, we have two ways to seek out performance opportunities-helping to make your investments work twice as hard_ 

Combine this with our low expenses and you'll see how TIAA-CREF stands apart from the competition, 
States responded too slowly to the humanitarian r.risis causr.d by the widespread flooding. 
Spokesman James Foley said the critics should take into account that many of the assets had to be redeployed from 
Europe to southern Africa ­ "a  
major undertaking."  
"We've deployed  them  as  

quickly as possible," he said Monday. 
But some critics believe the response should have been faster, noting that assets are still being deployed more than two weeks after the flooding reached crisis stage. 
Mozambique's former first lady, Graca Machel, spoke bit­terly of what many in southern Africa say were failures by the United States and other Western powers. 
"It seems the world has no conscience when it comes to human life," said Machel. the wife of former South African President Nelson Mandela. 
Aller an initial round of flood­ing in early February, the U.S. government concluded that regional search-and-rescue efforts would be sufficient, Poley said. 

CREF GLOBAL EQUITIES.ACCT. 1 

1 YEAR 5 YEARS SINCE INCEPTION 
___________AS OF 12/31/99 AS OF 12/31 /99 _._____
5/1 /92 ___. With over $250 billion in assets, we're the world's largest retirement company and the leading choice on America's campuses. If that sounds good to you, consider this number 1 800-842-2776. Call and find out how TIAA-CREF can work for you today and tomorrow. 
www.tiaa-cref.org 
It was not until Feb. 25 that a second surge of water caused rivers to overflow. a much greater disaster than had been initially anticipated, he said. 
At that point, he said, the U.S. Agency for International Development activated a 24­hour operations center and begin mobilizing the disaster assistance response team. 
Poley said AID contracted locally and quickly to hire three heliropters and six fixed-wing airplanes, which began flying on March 2. In recent days, he said. AID has contracted 11 civilian heliwpters and small aircraft. 
Also, a 14-member boat ms­cue operation from Metro Dade, Fla.. began rescue and delivery operations Monday, and a five­member CoasL Guard team of water-rescue specialists will arrive shortly. 
roley noted that President Clinton has authorized a draw­down of $37 .6 million in defense articles and services to support military humanitarian assis­tance efforts in the region. 
The package includes six heavy lift helicoptnrs and small boats to conduct search-and­rescur, operations. 


orld 

Tuesd::iy, March 7, 2000 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Strikers and students raid, vandalize rector's building 
MEXICO CITY 

A month aftnr policP brokP up a nearly yrarlong striko at Latin America's largest uni­versitv. more than JOO rnbrllious sturlents sniz,\d. tlrn rector's building Monday, scream­ing al workt'rs Lo got out and spraying w111ls with graffiti. About 150 strikPrs who coverPd their faces to hid£' thdr identities scream()d at university employees to evacuate the building and forcibly removrd some or the reporters and photographers who tried to cover the takeover, reported f\lexican broadcasL stations anrl tlm gowrnment news agency Notimrx. As they lw1·ded workers out of' the building in single file. the µrotesters chanted "political priso,rnrs, lihr.rty," and "dr, la FlHmt0's resig­nation now," a referrnce to rernntly appoint­Pd n'clor Juan Hamon dP la Fuente. 
U. N. human rights chief will travel to Chechnya 
U'.\JITED '.\JATIONS 

Tlw U.N. human rights chief said Monday slw will use lwr upcoming trip to Chechnya to push for the rights of its people to seek rPdn~ss from Russia. whose soldiers are accusNI of widespread rights abuses. Mary Hobinson said she would also press for inves­tigations for "those in uniform who on behalf of Llw state'· are alleged to have committed atrocities. including torching homes and vil­lages. raping wonrnn and torturing civilians. Robinson. the U.'\J. lligh Commissioner for Human Hights. said slrn planned to travel to the region in the first days or April -enough timP to report bark to the U.'\J. Commission on Human Rights. which begins its six-week ses­sion in Geneva on March 20. "l have concerns but I also know it's important to be open­minded and fair. and I will assess the situa­tion to the best of my ability," Robinson said. 
Boy recovers after piercing his heart with a pencil 
HELE'lA. Mont. 

A 12-yPar-old boy whose heart was pierced by a pencil as Im lunged toward his bed to catch a football is rccup1m1ting after 2 1/2 harrowing hours of the p,rncil throbbing at every beat in his chest. "f kind of felt it go in, but it didn't hurt." Nathan King said from his home in llPlena. "So I looked down. Then I started yelling !'or Mom. 1 was yelling 'Mom, Mom, Morn. I'm gonna die."' Crying and struggling to breathe. Nathan stumbled into the kitchen with the eraser end protruding 2 to 3 inches from his chest. Ile collapsed in front of his mother, Lorri Earley. with the pencil throbbing like a metronorrni. It was Nathan's birthday. Feb. 23. Eari<~y. a nurse, called 911 and held her son to kenp him from pulling at the pencil. 
¦tiriittlWiiiM
Dow AMEx: 
1022.36 

]ONES +R.oS 
"'lasrlaq:

-199.80 
n 
4904.85 -9 <).j 

V NYSE 
60-UIZ 
-6.-15 

S&P 500: Composite Vol um,·: 
1391.28

10,167.40 
1,029,059,968
-17.89 
VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPYX  TICKliB  )  CHNIQE  $ CBl.NQI  PRICI  
MIC'aOSOi,"T CORP  MSFT  -s. 73  -5, 50  90, 62  
DELL COMPU'I&R  DELL  . l..08  +0.50  U.75  
3COM CORP  COMS  -15.26  -13.50  69. 56  
COMPAQ COMPUTER  CPO  +O, 23  +O. 0.65  27. 94  
AMER! CA ONLl.NE  AOL  ~l.Sl  -0.87  .36. 75  
PAGIN'G NET'WORK  P>r,GI:  -tl3. 66  +0.451  4-l.1  
ORACLE CORP  ORCL  . l .00  .. o. 75  7 5, 75  
LUCENT TECH me QWEST COMMUNICA  LO Q  +l .52 -6. :2~  +2. 50 _,, 00  73 .SO 60.00  
NEXZLL TflERAPEU  +l 5. 91  +3. 99  15 .12  

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

Associated Press 

MOUNT MORRIS TOWNSHIP, Mich. 
Greeted by teddy bears and extra security, Buell Elementary School children returned to class Mondav for the first time since a first-grader was shot to death in her classroom. 
Children and parents alike expressed foars at first about return­ing to the school where 6-year-old Kayla Rolland was killed Feb. 29, allegedly by another first-grader. 
"He was afraid it was going to be him next," Lisa Davidson said of her second-grade son, Tim. 
Room 6. where the shooting occurred, had been cleaned and repainted. Trauma counselors with teddy bears were in each room to help the children, and by the lunch break, some children were skipping on the sidewalk out front. 
Plainclothes and uniformed police officers were inside and outside the school. School Superintendent Ira Rutherford said officials wanted to increase security without having too !)trong a police presence and scaring the children. 
About 335, or 79 percent, of the 424 children enrolled at Buell were in school Monday, according to Rutherford's office. Average atten­dance figures for other clays were not immediately available. 
The 6-year-old boy accused of killing Kayla wasn't at Buell, or any other school, on Monday, and offi­cials are determining his next step, Rutherford said. 
Todd Morrish said he had consid­ered not sending his son Ryan to kindergarten Monday. But when the morning session was over, Ryan came out carrying a brown bear and a drawing he had colored of a green bear. 
"He said it was fine. They played outside," Morrish said. 
The U.S. and Michigan flags remained at half-staff, and a nearby evergreen tree with stuffed animals at its base was decorated with pink ribbons in memory of Kayla. 
"l saw laughter. l saw lots of hugs. It was a smooth opening," said Susan Stuber, a spokeswoman for a neigh­boring school district. 
BRAZIL 

Brazil's colorful carnival draws crowd 
ing the country's flag. Public nuditv has become This year's carnival,
Associated Press 

Police said thev were so accepted· -some of which coincides with the 
preparing lo arrest the Rio·s biggest public beach­500th anniversary of 
RIO DE JANEIRO nude actress as she danced es have begun to go topless Brazil's discovery by
Hundreds of thousands 
atop a float. but held off -that even spectators at Portuguese navigatorof revelers flooded streets when she donned clothing. the carnival parades have Pedro Alvares Cabral on 
in cities across thr country "It was an homagp tu begun to strip. April 22, 1500, has drawn Monday, the second day of Brazil and its flag. which Nine topless models took an outpouring of national Brazil's yearly pre-lenten _ are very special now that over a booth at rio pride.
cnlebration. · 
the country is commemo­Sambodromc to cheer Some schools made the A highlight was Rio's rating 500 years of its dis­samba groups in the event the main foature of parade, which continues covery," she said. Speaking parade, while others wear• their allegoric cars, show­
non-stop until Tuesday 
on television, she also said ing tiny bikinis danced on ing Indians in chains and morning. Rut tlrnt event that she was mad\' to top of colorfully adorned others wearing native cos­wasn't without it notable parade again "more or less samba schools cars. tumes. sidelights. the same way". The annual celebration is Others depicted the saga
TV actress Angela Many of Brazil's newspa­actually a hard fought com­of slaves from Africa, and Bismarck covered herself 
pers offered evidence of petition where 14 of the some ridiculed military dic­
in Brazil's naliorwJ colors the offense, carrying pho­best samba groups fight it tators who ruled the coun­and nothing else, almost tographs of Bismarck's out for the honor of being try between 1964 and getting arrested for insult-demonstration. judged champion. 1985. 
Candidates prepare for 'Super Tuesday' showdown 
. Republicans still battling, but only an upset will keep Gore from Democratic bid 
As.sociated Press 
WASHINGTON 
George W. Bush's fortunes in New England and Ohio could he early signs to foretr,ll wlrnther Super Tuesday voting from Maine to California will deliver him the Republican presidential nomination or force him into another round against the challenge of John McCain. 
For Demorrats, there is less suspense. Only a miracle of upsets, beginning from the first votes counted, can kRcp Al Gore from effectively seal­ing that nomination. And Bill Brrrdlry doesn't really oxpect that, for all his talk of a Harry Truman-style reversal for hi~ waning campaign. 
There are 11 presidential primaries, caucuses else­where, decisions in 16 states across the time zones, Northeast to Midwest to the West Coast. California is cru­cial on March 7. as it may be again on Nov. 7. when the next president is chosen. 
The 162 Republican dele­gates that will be committed to the GOP winner there repre­sent 16 percent of the votes needed to win the nomination. Polls rate Gov. Bush well ahead of Sen. McCain among the Republican voters who will award those delegates. 
There is a separate, all-can­didates preference vote, and that is closer. Winning it will be a talking point and an argument for electability there in the fall, but with no reward in nominating delegates. the contest that counts now. The positioning primaries are over; Super Tuesday is about hard numbers. not momentum or doing well or any of the other catchwords of the earlier cam­paign season. 
"So much of this is an expec­tations game," McCain said. But that game is over. Bush said the attention on Wednesday morning will focus contest by winning enough on the number of nominating states and delegates to force votes each candidate won. his rival to quit. Gore had 482 Democratic del­Democrats assign their dele­egates in his column going in, gates in proportion to popular Bradley 57. It will take 2,170 votes, by state or district, so to win· that nomination. Bush Bradley will claim a share has 170 GOP delegates. even in a Gore sweep of the 15 McCain 105. with 1,034 need­Democratic contests on ed to nominate. Tuesday. 
Neithr.r leader can math­"I do think we have to win a ematically clinch the nomina­couple of states," Bradley said. tion on Super Tuesday. There a forlorn assessment of the aren't enough delegates. But outlook for a challenger who either or both could settle the once loomed as a rral threat to 
Tuesday 
continued from page l 
remain in Bush's favor. 
"I think McCain remains dangerous," Arnold said. "In California, we cou Id see the extraordinary result of McCain winning the popular vote while Bush actually takes the primary. An embar­rassed Bush would slog on to the nomi­nation. but it would be a signal that he doesn't have the centrist votes needed to win in November.'' 
Such a split decision in California is possible because its primary is open to all parties. hut dclegatp,s are deter­mined only by Hepublican votes. .\1cCain, therefore, could hypothetically win the popular vote. with thR support of independents and Democrats cross­ing over to vote for him, yet Bush Texas Gov. George W. 
Bush (above) and Arizona 
Sen. John McCain (left) 
campaign fiercely in the 
Republican primaries. 
Analysts say a strong 
showing today will nearly 
ensure Bush's nomination. 
while McCain 
victories would force the 
contest to continue. 
AFP Photo 

Gore. Unless the couplr, of Eastern time, and three states were to be upsets in Western caucus states begin California and New York. reporting at midnight. Bradley's next step is probably New York offers the second out of the campaign. richest lode of delegate votes, 
The Super Tuesday dele­243 to be apportioned between gates represent about 60 per­Gore and Bradley based on cent of a nominating majority their popular vote; 101 in a in r,ach party. more complex Republican pri­
While that is thr, number to mary that will take longer to watch, counting it up will go count after the polls close at 9 far into r,lection night and the p.m. The Hepublican primary early morning hours on is really 31 separate contests, Wednesday. The California in each congressional district, polls arc open until 11 p.m. without a statewide contest. 
. Last-minute campaigning sweeps the nation 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Hoping for a Super Tuesday worthy of' tho name, Gcorgr, W. Bush anrl Al Gore campaignrd on opposite coasts Monday in parallel pursuit of the victt>rics mieded to settle tlrnir parties' nominating struggles. 
"Rest is for another dav." said Gore's rival, Bill Bradley. And on the (We of a virtual nation­wide presidential primary with contests in all regions of the country. all sides seemed to agree on that. 
Republican John McCain said he sensed a backlash develop­ing against campaign commer­cials airnd by Rush and "his sleazy Texas buddies" in New York and elst!Where. 
Tim front-runners, Bush and Gorn, both courted Jewish vot­ers as they tailored their mes­sage as much to the general election as Tuesday's pri­maries. 
"Tolerance can never be assumed, and it always must be taught," Bush said in an appearance at the Simon Wiesenthal Center in Los Angeles where he also stressed his support for "a safe and secure Israel." 
Gore, in New York. told a Jewish organization he would be a "good and helpful and loyal friend" to Israel if elected to the White House. 
Public opinion polls had Gore ahead of Bradley virtually everywhern. Bush's position wasn't as commanding. although he led McCain in the polls in several key states. including Ohio. Maryland. Georgia. Missouri and in the winner-take-all competition for 162 California delegates. McCain's strength was in New England, and he and Bush bat­tled fiercely in New York. 
Bush and McCain girded for elections in 13 states in all, 11 primarir,s and two caucuses. with 613 dr,legates up for grabs. Democrats had contests in 15 states and the American Samoa, 11 primaries and 5 caucuses with 1,315 delegates in play. 
Aides said the Bush campaign was making two million get­out-thc-vote calls in nine states in the Super Tuesday lineup. 
Beyond that, though, the Texas governor's high rom­mand was looking ahead. They said he will try to raise as much as $10 million in the coming weeks for use against the Democrats. 
would take the H,2 delegates by win­effective campaign," Arnold said. ning the votes of registered "Tactically. he failed to win people Republicans. over. Strategically. hr, made bad r.hoic­On the D(!mocratic front, former New es -why did he stay for Washington 
Jersey Sen. Bill  state's 'beauty contest'  
Bradley contin­ when he should have been  
ues to lag far behind Gore. trailing the vice president in  ''[Bradley I couldn't predict that McCain ·s appeal would overlap  campaigning in New York. where he once had a chance'? He just doesn't get it."  
every state. After losing to  with his."  Furthermore. McCain's broad appeal detracted  
Gore in the Iowa caucus and the  Peri Arnold  from Bradley's campaign, according to Arnold.  
New Hampshire  Notre Dame  "It was beyond Bradley's  
primary, Bradley was dealt anoth­ government professor  control," couldn't  he said. predict  "HA that  
er  defeat  last  McCain's appeal  would  
Tuesday,  when  overlap  with  his.  They  

he lost Washington's non-binding pri­both attract the moderates, those who marv, a contest he had chosen as a arcn't core partisans, and McCain's testing point for a comeback. campaign clearly was more success­
"Bradley simply did not run a very ful." 
Today's Super Tuesday contests reflect the greatest number of dele­gates and states der.ided in a single day since primaries bPgan to play a crucial role in presidential candidate selection 48 years ago. 
Democrats will choose l :n 5 dele­gates, 61 percent of the 2170 neces­sary for nomination. Republicans will similarly pick 59 percent of the majori­ty needed, or 613 delegates. 
Although today's results will likely seal nominations in both parties, Arnold stressed that the losers will continue to have an impact. especially on the Republican side. 
"Even if Bush comes out on top, McCain's attacks on him will continue to hurt," he said, "The Democrats will recycle McCain's criticisms of Bush's corrupt fund raising. among other things. Bush has a big job ahead of him in keeping his head above water." 
Tuesday, March 7, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Jet skids off runway in California 
Associated Press 
BURBANK. Calif. 

;\ day after a jet carrying 142 pnople hurlled off a runway and skiddPd lo a stop just short of a gas station, everyone was talk­ing more about what could have happ('nml than what did hap­pen. 
Aftnr landing at Burbank from l .as Yr.gas, Flight 145S sl11mmcd lhrough iJ. metal wall and fom:e Sunday evening in a phone, but because of the smoke, he couldn't see to dial. 
As the noise subsided, Omolevrn and others ran toward the plane, where they helped frightened passengers climb down off the wing and off an Pmergenry chute. 
The 54-ton jetliner still had about 1.000 gallons of fuel in its S, '.·n 1-gallon tanks. Thousands or gallons of gas were stored at the Chevron station. Although the plane leaked about 
10 gallons of
"We saw [the plane} was

cloud or 
fuel, there

smoke and going to crash into the 
was no fire.

stopped with 
gas station and the gas Southwest

its nose just 
cal led it the
station was going to get

'.~9 f1H1t short 
worst acci­

of the gas inlo a.flame." 
dent in its 

pumps at a 
29-year his­

Clwvron sta­
tory.
Abayomi Omolewu

Lion on 
""v!y feeling

llollywood Airport shuttle bus driver 
Way.T h ,, Southwest Airlirws Bot'ing 737­300 struck a car. pinning its hood under tile aircraft, but tho drivPr and hPr 4-yPar-old daughter weren't hurt. Fil'kcn pass1\ng1!rs on the plane were slightly injured. Airport shuttle bus driver ,\bayomi OmolP.wu said he and two other drivers WP.re waiting to be sent on a call whPn they saw the plane blast through the fonce and wall. "We saw it was going to crash into the gas station and the gas station was going to get into a flame," he said Monday. "That's why we were likP., 'Man, is that plane going to fall on us?"' Omolewu said he and the two other drivnrs ran. Omolewu turned around to grab his CP-11 
is they were 
very fortu­nate that it wasn't morn serious than it was," said Southwest CEO llf'rh Kellehn. The airline, known for its bargain ticket prices, has never had a fatality. 
Investigators said the cause of the crash was not yet known. 
The battered plane was hoist­ed by cranes Monday and towed to a secure area of the airport. Cockpit data recorders were removed from the aircraft and flown to the National Transportation Safety Board's lab in Washington for analysis. 
The pilot, a Southwest veteran since 1988 with more than 18,000 flying hours, will be interviewed Tuesdav, said Jeffrrey R. Rich, the 0 NTSB's lead investigator. The weather was clear at the time of the crash. 

Cardinal O'Connor receives Congressional Gold Medal 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Ailing Cardinal .John O'Connor smiled and joked Monday as he was presented with a proclamation awarding him the Congressional Gold Medal, the nation's highest civilian honor. 
"It was just nice. It was just one of those nice, almost magical moments 1.hat we a.re lucky enough to take part in ... it was so good to see him vigorous," said Sen. Charles Schumer, 
0-NY. 
Schumer and Hep. Vito Fossella, H-N.Y., presented 
O'Connor the framed prorlamation to O'Connor at his Archdiocese residence. The medal will be presented to the 
cardinal in a few months onrn it has boen mint­ed. "It meant a grr.at deal to him. Hr. was very, 
very happy, very pleased about the whole thing," the cardinal's spokesman, Joe Zwilling, said after Monday's presentation of the docu­ment. 
President Clinton signed the proclamation on Sunday and in a statement said, "For more than 50 years, Cardinal O'Connor has served the Catholic Church and our nation with constancy and commitment." 
Clinton recalled O'Connor's early days per­forming parish work in his native Philadelphia, his service as a military chaplain in Korea and Vietnam and his 16 years leading the New York Archdiocese. 
The medal is the highest civilian honor awarded by Congress, and both houses rushed to approve it for O'Connor, mindful of his pre­carious health. 
O'Connor is recuperating from brain tumor surgery last year. Zwilling said the 80-year-old cardinal was "feeling better the last few days but still weak and not able to resume a regular sclrndule." 
Hacker alters Gallup Internet site 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
An electronic vandal altered the Internet site for the Gallup Organization, one of the nation's oldest and most respected polling companies, just before Tuesday's presiden­tial primary elections. 
Gallup said none of its poll data was compromised because its vandalized Web site, at www.gallup.com, won't be connected to internal com­puters that store polling results until Sept. 1. That's when Gallup plans to make available changed to read "demonstra­through its Web site 65 years tion of Internet insecurity by of data. AntiOnline." 
"We have until September 1 Gallup indicated it now to guarantee that we have believes AntiOnline wasn't 
addressed all issues of security," said Phil Ruhlmon, Gallup's chief infor­mation offi­cer. 
Gallup results are relied upon heavily by campaigns and political journalists. The group's Web site was 

''To be able to put out a fake story about Microsoft merging with Apple, for example; just rumors about those kinds ofstories can send stocks skyrocketing." 
John Vranesevich head of AntiOnline 
involved, but it acknowl­edged that it originally called to complain to J o h n Vranesevich, who runs AntiOnline in Beaver, Pa. 
"We're pretty much used to that," said Vranesevich, who was 


vandalized in an obvious way early Sunday for about six hours before it was noticed and repaired. The more seri­ous risk was that subtle changes could have been intro­duced -the report of a surge by a political underdog, for example -and reported by mainstream media outlets as genuine. 
"That is a risk," Ruhlmon acknowledged. "It may have existed for a longer period of time if they had changed some­thing minor." 
Instead, the unknown vandal altered part of Gallup's Web site with a claim that a promi­nent Internet site devoted to computer security, AntiOnline, was itself responsible. Along with some text, a headline was demonized by hackers last summer after he offered to help authorities trace and prosecute hackers. "When someone's hacked, there's obviously a lot of frustration there. When some of these malicious hackers put our name down as a joke or to degrade us, we'll get a call sometimes." 

Vranesevich agreed that the greater threat in the attack against Gallup was the poten­tial risk to the organization's credibility if false data pub­lished on its Web site had been reported publicly. 
"To this point, we really haven't seen hackers do that," he said. "[But] to be able to put false information out, it could have serious conse­quences, all sorts of problems. To be able to put out a fake story about Microsoft merging 
with Apple, for example; just rumors about those kinds of
Ever\,1one · stories can send stocks sky­rocketing."
who has ever wondered why thousands departed the priesthood c1nce loved may find answers here. Every priest who left 

LEADERS
will see glimpses of himself 
A novel ahout lnue and the joumey ore tnkes to find it whemx."T it may be. 

Full-time college student-or graduate. Starting salary, 
The Quarry 

i $32,000. Post offer mental and by Don Welch Whipple, CSC 
physical screening. 
Price: $9.95 

Marine Officer Programs 
To order: 

Call toll free for an interview 
Four Seasons Publishers 

1-877-299-9397
PO Box 51 • Titusville, FL 32781 

www.MarineOfficer.com
(321l 267-9800 

CZECH REPUBLIC 
Protesters hurl eggs at Albright 
. Students object to her message of making financial sacrifices to stop spread of nuclear weapons 
Associated Press 
PRAGUE 
Secretarv of" State Madeleine Albright· urged EastPrn Europeans on Monday to play a bigger 
role in bringing democracy to Serbia. after draw­i n g applause and a bar­rage of 

hurled eggs  Albright  
with  her  
message to  a  university audi­ 

ence that freedom requires financial sacrifice. 
Albright, visiting the land of her birth, delivered a speech Monday at Tomas Masaryk University in Brno in which she referred to a pledge by Czech President Vaclav Havel on Sunday to cancel a $30 mil­lion sale of cooling duct parts by a Czech company to Iran's Bushehr nuclear power plant. 
Albright said halting the spread of nuclear weapons technology "is not without cost." 
"To keep tho best technology from falling into the wrong hands. American firms are required to forgo many poten­tially profitable contracts," Albright said, speaking in English. "But a similar responsibility rests upon the shoulders of all who pledged to defend the best interests of the Euro-Atlantic community." 
After her speech, which drew enthusiastic applause, Albright left the auditorium for a nearby hall, where a crowd of well-wishers had gathered to r.atch a glimpse of her. Suddenly, two men shout­
ed "d1rnth to American imperi­alism" and began hurling eggs. Pol ire Capt.. Zd e1rnk Lubas said two 22-year-old men described as anarchists were dctained for questioning. 
Albright was spatternd with bits of egg, but most of them were intercepted by hew body­guards, said a U.S. official who spokP-on condition of anonymity. Albright was rushed away quickly. 
"Whoever is unable to think about the serious problems of today's civilization, including globalization, has nothing bet­ter to do than to take an egg and throw it. at somehody," Havel said later. 
Iran insists the 13uslrnhr nuclear power plant is for peaceful production of Plee­t ric i t y . but tlrn C Ii n to n Administration fnars the Iranians are trying to develop a nuclear weapons program. 
"We considPr thl' campaign around Bushehr conducted by the Czech government and the local media a gift to the American minister Madeleine Albright linked to her visit," Sharif Khodai, the acting Iranian ambassador to Prague, told the newspaper Pravo. 
/\!bright also met Monday afternoon in Prague, th c Czech capital, with private Czech and other Eastern European organizations to dis­cuss the challenges or bringing democracy to Serbia, Yugoslavia's dominant repub­lic. 
"The prevailing opinion was that Serbia·s democratic oppo­sition within the country and the international community should focus on elections in Serbia," said Tomas Pojar, head of the Prague-based Man in Need foundation. 
Sinre arriving Sunday for a four-day visit, Albright has said repeatedly that former communist countries such as the Czech Republic can offer valuable lessons to Serbian opposition figures in fighting for democracy against the authoritarian government of President Slobodan Milosevic. 

OFFICE ASSISTANT NEEDED 
Monday/Wednesday Mornings Tuesday Afternoons 
APPLICATIONS AT: STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE 315 LAFORTUNE 

CHILE 
Judge moves to try Pinochet 
Associated Press 
SANTIAGO 

A judge askml a C:hilcmn court Monday to strip Gen. Augusto Pinochet or his congrnssional imm1111itv so the l'onmir dicta­tor c<nild stand trial for what has como to be known as "tho cara­van of death" ­the killing and disap­pearance of 72 dissi<lnnis in the days fol­lowing his 1973 coup. 
The requrn;t by Jmlgc• Juan Guzman. the first ever l'iled against Pinochet in Chiln. comos just thnm days alter the army gave the retirnd gennral a warm welconrn upon his rnturn from house arrest in Britain ­and gave rise to concerns the military might bring pressure to bear against any such trial. 
"This is Hw bnginning of jus­tic11, which wn have sought for so long," said lawyer Hugo Gutierrez, who is marshaling several of the lawsuit.<; pending here against Pinochet. The number of thoso suits climbed to 66 Monday as lawyers filnd live moro com­plaints alleging the wrongful death of a dozen people. 
"The action by .Judge Guzman means that he bnlieves there is r.nough evi­dence to have Pinochet tried" in that case, Gutierrnz addBd. 

cers, including two gennrals, in the sarnn case~. 
The 22-rncmber Santiago Court of' Appeals would be the first to ruin on Pinochet's immunity, aJ'tPr which either side can appnal to the Supreme Court. The process may take wueks, even months. 
While ev,~n rnlatives and staunch Pinochet supporters admit that hn, like any ot.lrnr ChilAan, can be required to stand trial. others havn cxpressnd concern that the mil­itary -which still strongly sup­ports their former leader ­may apply pressure to abort any trial. 
The military welconrn for Pinochet Friday, and an army statement vowing "permanent support and solidarity" [or l'inoclwt, were seen by many as a warning against prosecuting the f'orm fl r commander-in­chinf. 
President-elect Hicardn Lagos, a socialist who takes of'licn on Saturday, has vowed to rnsist any attempt by the mil­itary Lo interfere. 
Lawyer Fnrnando Barros, a closo associate of the former ruler, warned that trying Pinochet would be tantamount to trying the armed forces for 
,;, 

"But since he has immunity . ; · as ~ member o!' the senate,~ ,, ,.,.. · the Judge must hrst seek that · immunity lifted." 
Guzman has already indict­ed several other military ofli­their roln in the coup and Pinoclrnt's 1973-1990 military regime. 
"Trying Gen. Pinochet will bring instability to the country," said Barrus, a spokesman for Pinochet during most of his confinement in London. "The lime has come to turn the pagf' on this." 
Pinochr,t, meanwhile, rrstnd at his heavily guarded Santiago resideur.e. lln returned Friday from his 16-month detention in Britain, escaping attr,mpts by a Spanish judge who wanted to bring him to trial on charges of torture and torture conspiracy. 
The judge's req1rnst involves ChilP's most prominent human rights case: the so-callPd "cara­van of death" of October 1973. when military officers toured the country. dragging scores of clissid1\11ts from jail. executing them or making tlrnm disap­pnar. 
According to an official report, 19 of the dissidents lost to the "caravan or death" remain unaccounted for while ;,3 were Pxecuted. Gutierrez said tho suit was filnd against Pinochet because "it is clear that the caravan was sent by him and acted on his direct orders." 
Clqss of2003 
There is agroup on campus to help students facing disciplinary hearings before the Office of Residence Life. Peer advocates are specially trained to guide students through the disciplinary process. They comprise a division ofJudicial Council, a Student Government organization, and are not part ofResidence Life. 
Ifyou are interested in being apeer advocate pick up an application in the Student Government Office in Lafortune. 
Applications are due March 26, 2000. For additional information contact Angela Galui or Tony Wagner at 1-4556. 
Tuesday, March 7, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Court backs Indiana on Good Friday 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Supreme Court wants no say, not yet anyway, in how states treat Good Friday. 
Thr nation's highest court Monday rejected a challenge to Indiana's designation of Good Friday as a statr holiday. The denial of review. which was not accompanied by any court comnwnt. allows the state to continue giving ils employers that day off. a practice begun in 1941. 
The designation had bP-en attacked as a violation of the r,onstitutionally required sepa­ration of government and reli­gion. 
The justices similarly turned away a challengc in January to a Maryland law that requires the annual closing of' all public schools on Good Friday. 
Always two days before Easter. Good Fridav is the Christian holiday th.at com­memorates the crucifixion of Jesus. But some courts have ruled that designating the day as an annual holiday has a lrgitimatc. non-religious pur­pose. 
Indiana's law was chal11mged by taxpayer Russell Brid1mbaugh of Bloomington. I !is lawvers told thP court that at lr.asi 14 other states have laws making all or part of Good Friday a legal holiday. 
Thev art' California, Dr.laware. Florida, Hawaii, Illinois, Kentucky. Louisiana, 
Maryland, New Jersey, North Carolina. North Dakota, Pennsylvania, Tennessee and Wisconsin. 
Some of those laws have been struck down after being challenged in court. 
After Bridenbaugh sued in 1997. a federal magistrate threw out the case without a trial. A three-judge panel of the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the dismissal last July, by a 2-1 vote. 
A separate panel of that same appeals court previously had struck down the Illinois law that provided for school closings on each Good Friday. 
Indiana's main purposr, in designating the state holiday is to provide a long spring week­end. the appeals court panel found. 
"Indiana does not celebrate the religious aspects of Good Friday; for Indiana, the holiday has absolutely no n~ligious sig­nificance. To Indiana, Good Friday is nothing but a Friday falling in the middle of the long vacationless spring -a day which employees should take off to rejuvenate themst'lves," the panel said. 
The dissenting judge said the state should not be allowed to choose Good Friday as the spring holiday every year. But the two-judge majority noted that the designation gives state employers a three-day week­end "during a time which typi­cally involves travel. shopping, cooking and family gather­ings." 

Jury convicts three N.Y. policemen 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Amid heightened tension between the police and the black community, three white officers were convicted Monday of a cover-up in the attack on a Haitian immigrant brutalized with a broken broomstick in a stationhouse bathroom. 
The guilty verdicts in one of New York City's most notorious cases of police brutality came 10 days after four white offi­cers were cleared in the shoot­ing of West African immigrant Amadou Diallo. an unarmed black man who died a barrage of 41 bullets. 
In Monday's verdict. former patrolman Charles Schwarz, 34, and officers Thomas Wiese, 36, and Thomas Bruder,\,_33, were found guilty of lying to investigators to conceal Schwarz's role in the 1997 attack on Abner Louima, who suffered severe internal injuries. 
"Not only are we now getting convictions of police on mis­conduct, but actually for the conspiracy. This is a real blow to the blue wall of silence," said the Rev. Al Sharpton. 
Louima cousin and familv spokesman Samuel Nicolas said: "This is not a happy occa­sion for us. We are not opening champagne bottles." But he added. "Now we can start the healing process." 
The officers' convictions carry up to five years in prison. No sentencing date was set. 
Schwarz also could get life in prison when he is sentenced for his 1999 conviction on charges of holding down a handcuffed Louima as fellow Officer Justin Volpe sodomized him with a broken broom han­dle. 
In the latest trial, prosecu­tors sought to show that the three officers hid behind a "blue wall of silence" within the department. 
"The verdict today should send a message within the police department that there is no greater 

resides in this city," London said. 
Attorneys for all three men said they will appeal, and Schwarz's lawyer said he asked that Schwarz be placed on suicide watch in jail. 
Louima was not in the court­room for the verdict. 
"What Abner Louima wants more than anything else is for what happened to him to never happen to anyone else ·s chil­dren," said Sanford 
betrayal of Rubenstein,
"The verdict today should 
the badge an attorney 
than to send a message within for the ensnare a the police department Louima fami­
fellow offi­ly. The family
that there is no greater
cer in a is suing the 
web of lies betrayal ofthe badge city for $155 
a n d than to ensnare a fellow million. deceit," Prosecutors
officer in a web

u . s had accused 
Attorney oflies and deceit." the three offi­Loretta cers of telling L y n c h "lie after lie"
Loretta Lynch

said. to save
U.S. attorney

T h e Schwarz. 
guilty ver­dicts trig­gered an outburst from the three defendants and their supporters. 
Schwarz cursed loudly as he was led from the courtroom. Wiese and Bruder, free on $100.000 bail, wept, and Wiese cradled his mother after she collapsed in a hallway. 
Bruder's lawyer, Stuart London, suggested the Diallo verdict and the protests that followed may have put pres­sure on the jury of six blacks, five whites and one Hispanic. 
"It's hard to ignore the post­Diallo, anti-police climate that 
They offered 

phone records as evidence that showed the officers spoke many times in the weeks after the attack. 
Both Volpe and Schwarz had insisted Schwarz was never even in the Brooklyn police sta­tion bathroom during the assault. 
Volpe, who pleaded guilty to the attack and is serving a 30­yea r sentence, testified at Schwarz's trial for the first time about the attack. saying he mistakenly thought Louima had punched him during a dis­turbanc e outside a Haitian nightclub. 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 10 BSERVER Tuesday, March 7, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Nocr• Dam,. IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining !-lJ\I. Notre Dam,. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 
MANIICINc; EDITOR  BUSINJ:SS MANAGF.R  
M. Shannon Rvan  David Rogem  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Lauro Petellc  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan V1EW1'01NT EDITOR: Colleen Gwghen SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas S~NT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR; Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lutz 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Huelar SYSTFMS AOMINlnRATOR: Mich.1el Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushro 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GIUPH!CS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO.. ........... 631-7471 
FAX......................................................... 631-6927 ADVf.RnSING..................................... 63 l-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.cdu EDITOR IN CHIEF...................................... 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.. ...................................... 631-5313 NEWS................................... ......................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS.......... .............................................631-4543 
observer.sporrs. 1@nd.edu 
SCENE.. .................... ...................................63 l-4 540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:!lobserver.ndedu for daily updates of campus news, sporrs, teatures and opinion columns. as weU as cartoons. reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-ro-the 
weekly scudent reviews 
minuce forecasts 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates ofprim ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
to meer the editors and
articles published alter 
Augusr !999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe scudenrs ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial comenr, including adverri.semencs, i.s not governed by policies of rhe administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves rhe right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reporred as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Ediror. Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, !erters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available co all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to che Editor must be signed and must include contact infOrmation. 
Qum,om regarding Observ,r policies should be direct­ed to Editor 111 ChiefMichelle Krupa. 


Deep moments in required classes 
I have struck up an e-mail friendship with a college freshman, to whom l often allocate certain pearls of wisdom that only a Real World-embattled grad­uate is capable of dispensing, such as 
Mary Beth Ellis 
how to magically transform a five­page paper into a Changes in seven-page one by latitudes,changing the font. 
Changes in 
She is grateful for 

Atitudes 
my assistance and shows it by whining a great deal about her required cours­es. I take this as an offense and a chal­lenge. Nobody out-whines me where cores are concerned: 
Class: Biology. Took Place: Every frickin' day of the week. Usefulness Rating: Would sooner drink formalde­hyde than have to smell it again. 
This course consisted largely of a man who wore the same four sweaters on a regularly rotating basis and talked at length about how cells divide. At one point he showed a film which graphical­ly depicted mating rituals of the American honeybee.The fact that this was immensely disgusting was all any­one remembered on the midterm. A fetal pig was also dissected. No one enjoyed this except for the man in the sweater. 
Class: Spanish. Took Place: Entirely too often. Usefulness Rating: Negative one million trillion gazillion stars. 
Spanish spoken by a learned or native tongue is lovely. Spanish spoken by hungover eighteen-year-olds at nine in the morning is not. An intense hatred of this course was easily engendered by its evil and deceptive nature. 
The first week or so was dedicated to introducing oneself and constructing such marginally useful sentences as "The desk is on the Ooor!" Then sud­denly. out of some deep, specially pre­pared hole of hell. came subject pro­nouns, the present tense of all verbs ending in -ar, singular forms of adjec­tives, the use and conjugation of the verb ir and one 125 vocabulary words, none of which even obliquely referred to the procurement of liquor. The explanations for correct usage and directions for homework exercises were written entirely in Spanish. And that concluded Chapter One. 
Raining especial torment upon Spanish 101 was Language Lab. This was an undodgable requirement for all foreign language courses, in which stu­dents signed in for their prescribfld one hour a week with a proctor, then hunched in carrels with a language tape. a Trudy the Time-Life Operator headset and a "listening skills" work­book. In theory, the student listened carefully to questions posed by the tape, then entered painstakingly constructed, accent-perfect responses in the spaces provided. 
This theory applied for perhaps a grand total of four seconds of the required 27 hours of my Language Lab time. Within a week J discovered the Listening Skills answers conveniently placed in the back of the book. the amazing physical resemblance between the textbook tape and, say, a personal mix tape containing Garth Brooks and Toad the Wet Sprocket and the fact that student proctor did not in fact give a damn so as long as everyone was checked in, wearing headphones and holding some sort of writing instru­ment. I am pleased that Spanish 101 managed to inject joy and meaning into the life of at least one human being. 
Class: The History of Western Civilization. Took place: Way the hell in the past. Usefulness Rating: Too many guillotines to tell. 

The textbook for this course con­tained an entire section entitled "The Use of the Hand Plow," and that's all you need to know about that. Otherwise, the most pivotal event of Western Civilization took place at noon on Wed., October 4, 1995, which was the starting time for a lecture on Charlemagne -and the designated hour at which the verdict in the O..J. Simpson trial was to be announced. A mammoth battle raged between the professor, who wished to lecture, and the students, who, fully cognizant of the verdict's impact upon the nation's judi­cial system and American society in general, wished to get out of hearing the lecture. A truce was reached when two "reporter" students were permitted to listen to the verdict on a radio in the professor's nearby office while actual learning took place for the rest of the class. (It should be noted that every­body hated this arrangement except for the two reporter students.) 
At 12:15 p.m., just as Charlemagne was conquering Saxony, a great "OOOOOOHHifHHHHH!" was heard from the professor's office, immr,diately followed by the stomping appearance of the reporting students, who screeched. "not guilty!" before flopping angrily into their respective seats. The professor was mildly stunned and the reporting students were near tears, but the lec­ture continued anyway. 
I will say one thing for the cores: They kept me busy between weekends. 
Mary Beth Ellis is a '99 Saint Mary's graduate. She is currently an MFA can­didate at Bennington College. lier col­umn runs every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necces­sarily those of The Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT r:::===~~~=::77,~~=======~-. 
I'VE 6EEN A&KED TO I MEASURED OUR TH£ HIGHER DRAG QUANTIFY THE INTERN'$ Hf.AD TO ! COEFFICIENT
ii 
BENEFITS OF OUR SEE IF IT GOT £-!"\EA.NS WE LOST KNOWLEDGE MANAGE­BIGGER. =~~ j A. LITTLE IN THE :. SANDWICH­
] 

S'YSTEl"'\S. ;; 
:, 
0 0 
"' 0 !"\ENT.
9 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"If I ran a school, I'd give the average grade to the ones who galle men all the right answers. for being good parrots. I'd give the top grades to those who made a lot of mistakes and told me about them, and what they learned from them." 
R. Buckminster architect, engineer and social philosopher 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
Tuesday, March 7, 2000 BSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
'War on drugs' is ineffective 

The l 1nited States has a highrr percentage of our population imprisoned than any other coun­trv in the world. The number of' pr:isoners is expected to double over the next 20 years. We can ban~ly build nnough prisons tn keep up the pace. AH of this at a time when Drugs." has so demonized illegal drug use that it is impossible to speak about solutions other than incarceration. Yet this "war" has not been able lo reduce the availability of drugs one iota. In fact, the U.S. is still the single largest consumP,r of illegal drugs 
in the world after 10 years 

FRI statisics 
of "war" -a "war" which show the has so far cost over $50 bil­crime rate lion of taxpayers money. to br. drop­People use illegal drugs ping steadily for the same reasons they each Vt~ar. use legal ones. Itumans 
Th( vast have always used drugs of majority of one sort of another. This is these pris­a fundamental aspect of onr.rs arc human behavior vvhich can non-violent be traced back thousands of drug offend­years in almost every cul­ers. These ture. non-violent The question in our time 
should be one of personalprisoners are held for long periods under mandatory sentencing laws while murderers and rapists am allowed early release in order to make room for more prisoners. 

I ask you: Is drug use really such a heinous crimr,'? Tobacco and alcohol are acknowledged to be two of the most harmful drugs, ynt they are usr,d without pt'nalty by a largf' segment of the population. Most other countries regard drug addiction as a med­ical problem similar to alco­holism. lmaginf' how many peo­ple would be in prison if alco­holism or cigarette addiction wern treated like other drug addictions. 
The problem is this: The gov­ernment. through its "War on 
accountability. Obviously "driving while intoxicated" should be a crime for it endan­gers the lives of others. But should someone go to jail because they drink responsibly in the privacy of their own home'? This analogy holds true for other forms of drug use. 
The simple fact is that the "war on drugs" is a war on a large segment of the American people. It is unsustainable as no amount of legislation can modify human nature. It is a waste of our money and is destroying many more lives than it is help­ing. 
Reverend H.W. Skipper Dallas, Texas March 4, 2000 

Holding out hope in students and alumni 
Our Notre Dame Family, we address you as members of our family. Our brothers, sisters, friends; we came to this school in the pursuit of more than an education -we came in pursuit of a community in which we could all feel accepted. Hand picked by the admissions office, each one of us worked hard to get here and work harder each day to stay an integral part of this community. But we are not perfect. We make mistakes, piss off friends, get eJected from foot­ball games for doing pnshups in the stands and even get thrown out of Reckers for spilling things. We are human, what can you expect'? 
We expected a Catholic com­munity, a caring community, to look at the wrong of a fellow student and while not condoning it, forgive it. We arc just as frus­trated as anyone else is at the outcome of the Syracuse game. We are even more upset, howev­er. with the reactions of our fel­low students and alumni -the name-calling. finger pointing and threatening gestures ­lowards one of their own. We wonder if you would react the same if it was your roommate, your friend -you? We ponder what words you could find to say to your parents if your fellow students wouldn't stop threaten­ing you, just for the sake of a game'? 
Our expectations have not been completely disregarded, however, for we find some solace in the "class act" of the basketball team. We have dis­covered in them a source of inspiration, and we hope that you, our family, can do the same. We have not given up on you, in hopes that you will give back to the Notrf' Dame commu­nity a little of the respect it has lost in the past few days, we say to the him: Although we believe what you did lacked a bit of common sense, we still support you wholeheartedly. 
Kristin Corcoran 
Sophomore, McGlinn Hall 
Gretchen Danysh Sophomore, Pasquerilla East Hall 
Kathy Gerschutz Sophomore, Pasquerilla Easr Hall 
Libby Kaufman 
Sophomore.Pasquerilla East Hall 
March 5, 2000 

UHS is endangering students 
I would like to respond to Ann Thompson's letter to the editor, published in The Observer last Friday. The author of the anonymous let­ter. printed last week, should be outraged at Ms. Thompson's callous critique of their reac­tion to the lost blood sample. No doubt, the nurse and laboratory technician did not intrmd to misplace the sample, but to dismiss the incident as an example of how "life isn't always perfect" is an insult not only to the person whose blood sample was lost, but to anyone who has ever experienced a problem with the University Health Services. I have spoken with countless individuals who have been the victims of misdiagnoses and poor medical treatment at the campus infirmary, and I would like to take this opportunity to share my personal experience and that of a friend who is very dear to me. 
Shortly after fall break, I awoke one morn­ing feeling intense chest pains and short breath. I decided to walk over to University Health Services for treatment. After meeting with one of the doctors, who told me I was probably suffering from inflamed lung tissue but did not say why, I was sent to have an X-ray taken of my chest cavity. 
I walked into the room to find the X-ray operator seated at her desk reading a romance novel with a man who 
•

looked a great deal like Fabio on the cover. When I told her I needed an X-ray to be taken, she lifted one linger, without looking at me. and continued read­ing her book. I stood in the doorway for about a minute in utter agony because every time I either inhaled or exhaled I felt a terri­ble pain throughout mv chest. 
Finally, she put the book down and attended to me. Now, I could be overreact­ing, but when some­one requires medical attention, I feel that attention should be as immediate as pos­sible. Had there been another patient ahead of me requiring an X-ray, I would have waited without complaint. However, I think it is shameful for an employee of a hos­pital to put a patient on hold because she wants to finish reading about all her unfulfilled sexual fantasies. If that is the standard of excellence exhibited by UHS that Ms. Thompson hailed in her article, I think the bar needs to be raised considerably. 
Unfortunately, my tale does not end on the X-ray table. About a month late; I began to experience the same symptoms that had initially diminished after receiving medication from the infir­mary. I told the same doctor that this was a repeat occurrencf' and that I thought it was something a little more serious than inflamed lung tissue. She said it was nothing and had the nurse give me shot, plus more prescriptions. Roughly 45 minutes after I received the shot. I had a violent attack of pain rn;1t only in my chest but in my neck and stomach as well. A friend dialed 911 and I was rushed to St. Joe's and stabilized. 
The doctor at St. Joe's told me that my lung tissue was inflamed but since it was apparent• ly a chronic ailment I should see a doctor for serious medical treatment over Christmas Break, which I did. I am now receiving the proper medication and have not suffered from chest pains since last fall. 
This is not a single, isolated incident. There are so many students at Notre Dame with complaints about UHS that it would probably take an entire edition of The Observer to print each one. A close friend of mine, who will remain anonvmous, suffers from an incurable and potentiaily fatal heart disease. 
She first noticed something was wrong when she experienced chest pains -diffornnt and much worse than the pains I suffered from ­last February. Thfl doctor at UIIS said that she was simply suffering from stress and that a change in lifestyle was all she needed. When she asked for testing, they refused to adminis­ter any, saying it would be unnecessary. 
She spent the remainder of the year in con­stant pain and upon her return home in May she visited a cardiologist at one of the top hos­pitals in the country. They were willing to per­form the tests and discovered her condition. She was placed on medication that would treat but not cure the disease and could not be mixed with certain drugs used to treat other ailments. She was also told that she would need to go into a hospital for weekly check­ups while she was at school. 
In December, my friend contracted pneumonia and went to the infirmary on campus for treatment. Even though she specifically informed the doctors that she was on heart medication and that they could not prescribe 
certain drugs for the pneumonia, they went ahead and gave her a prescription that could not be 
mixed with her heart medicine anyway. This means one of 
two things: Either they did not do a thorough enough background check on the 
heart medicine or the pneu­monia medicine, or they ignored my friend's warn­
ing altogether. In any case, that is an unconscionable oversight. 
She took the medicine for 4 clays. It made the pneumonia go away but gave her severe heart problems, worse than she 
had ever experienced before. Her cardiologist at home immediately took her off the pneumo­nia medication because it was obvious that it was worsening the heart con­dition. 
As a result of all the problems she has had with UHS, my friend goes 
to St. Joe's for her check­ups, which is a terrible inconvenience for her. She 
no longer believes that anyone at UHS has a shred of medical expertise and 
will only go there in the most dire of emergencies. This is the state of health care on the campus of America's top Catholic univer­
sity. Ms. Thompson called the lost blood sample "truly a RARE occurrence." Perhaps blood sam­
ples are not often misplaced, but University Health Services has made too many mistakes to be con­sidered an adequate health care cen­ter. I do not feel that anyone who voices 
their disapproval of the medical attention they receive at UHS should be accused of hav­ing "an inappropriate response" to the situa­tion. 
Ms. Thompson encourages open communi­cation so that "constructive changes" can be made, but the rest of her article indicates that a student will be castigated every time they criticize UHS. Well, I have some open commu­nication for Ms. Thompson: The University Health Services is a pathetic representation of the medical profession and a disgrace to the University of Notre Dame. The administration needs to recognize this and do something about it. 
Matt Lee Sophomore, Keough Hall March 6. 2000 


CONCERT REVIEW 

Bands at Stepan show are 'decent,' varied 
Vertical Horizon &Stroke 9 perform to an interesting mix ofconcert-goers 
while Vertical llorizon has slower, more melodic 
from their sophomore release. 
songs. 

Endi.ng with "Everything You Want," Vertical 
Vertical llorizon soon look the stage and was 
llorizon left the stage only to hear the Notre Dame 
By COREY HARTMANN 
Scene Movie Critic: 
From_ Notre Dame students to high schoolers, evervone at Stepan Center on March 1 seemed to enjoy themselves. Vertical Horizon and Stroke 9 held a concert that. hfllpe.d people put faces to the per­formers of those songs they always hear on the radio. It also gave everyone attending a chance to hear some otlrnr matl':rial from the two great bands. The night started out strong with the local band Radford· taking the stagfl at the Stepan Center. Hadford got everyone's head bobbing but didn't have too much r.rowd reaction. Stroke 9 was next on stage and was probably the highlight of the evening. Hailing from San Francisco. Stroke 9 is enjoying the 


popularity ol' their hit "Little Black Backpack" gracing tlrn airwaves across the country. 
Lirnd by singer Luke Esterkyn, Stroke !) jammed for close to an hour. playing songs like "City Life," "Washin' & Wonderin"' and "Tail of the Sun." Closing with the crowd favorite "Backpack," and saying how murh tlrny nnjoyerl being in South Bend, Stroke 9 lel't and had many fans wanting more. 
Talking to many peo­
ple after the concert (including that nice po Ii c e o f'fi cer th at is sending me to Hes-Life) concert-goers believed that Stroke 9 did a bet­ter job than Vertical Horizon. Much of that had to do wilh the two styles of music that the bands played. Stroke 9 has many songs that are faster and more upbeat so the fans can dance, 
happy to have the crowd vibe from Stroke 9's performance. Playing new and old material, Vertical Horizon helped show South Brrnd why they are becoming so popular. especially with the college-aged crowd. Having a sound similar to that of New Hadicals, Vertical Horizon played songs from their new album, Everything You Want, and a couple of old tunes from 

Sponsored by the Notre Dame Student Union Board and U93, the concert at the Stepan Center featured Stroke 9, a big hit with the young girls and the definite crowd pleaser for the evening. 
"The Man Who Would Be Santa" were songs played 
· 
All around, the show was decent. Even with the security guards being so rude and not letting any fans dance or do anything. 

MARY CALASH/The Observer Running on Ice and Live Stages. "Best I Ever Had," "You're A God," "We Are" and "Send It Up" were
Vertical Horizon delivered a strong performance, play­

just a few of the songs from their major label debut 
ing music from previous releases along with their hit 

album. "Candyman," "Angels Without Wings" and 
single. 

student body and all the little kids there with their moms put their hands in the air and scream like we do right before every kickoff' at a football game. 
All around, the show was decent. Even with the security guards being so rude and not letting any fans dance or do any­thing. Even with the lead singer of Vertical Horizon strutting the 
Billy Corgan haircut. Even with half of the teenagers from St. Joseph's high school at the concert. Even with those security guards trying to kick people out for folding up some chairs. 
CONCERT REVIEW 

A shy Mr. 'Misery' delights Chicago crowd 
By CHRISTOPHER McGOVERN Scene Music Critic 
Elliott Smith's music has always been a study in contradictions. His songs are beautiful and emotional, yet the lvrics are stark and d11prnssing. Even his happier songs usually have a sad twist to them. This trend of contradiction remained apparent throughout his per­formance at Chicago's Empty Bottle on Saturday, February 26. A shy, reserved Smith took the stage around 11:00 and went straight into two new songs, "Son of Sam" and "Happiness." Though he appeared somewhat nervous -an early miscue on "Happiness" seemed to make him somewhat embarrassed -he settled into a comfortable groovA around the third or fourth tune. Despite his somewhat ill at ease man­ner, Smith. who earned national acclaim for his contributions to the "Good Will Hunting" soundtrack, managed to main­tain a commanding stage presence. For the most part, the audience stnod motionless, as if they didn't want to miss a single note or word from their mod­ern-day Dylan. The only damper on the evening, was the young lady in the front row who pantomimed everything from being a butterfly to taking heroin. 

After the early mishap. Smith's guitar work was Setlist 
nothing short of . Son of Sam brilliant, espe­cially on two . Happiness 
numbers from . Southern Belle XO, "Waltz #2" 
a n d . Between the Bars "Independence . LA Day." This was a 
. Rose Parade
welcome sur­prise, given that . Pretty Mary K Smith is primar­
. Division Day
ily known for his 

. Angeles
amazing voice and songwriting abilities. He even seemed comfortable with most of the new material. which will show up on his forthcoming Figure 8 release in April. Two songs to especially look for­ward lo are "LA" and "Pretly Mary K," both of whir.h are reminiscent of his 
earlier work on the Kill Rock Stars label. Other highlights from the evening included "Say Yes," "Ballad of Big Nothing" and "St. Ides Heaven." On "Ides," he called up an old friend from the audience to help him out 
. Needle In the Hay 
who, surprising­

. Say Yes ly, did a nice job. Her perfor­
. Waltz# 2 
mance showed 

. St. Ides Heaven 
that most of the 
concert-go11rs

. Biggest Lie 
were music 

. Independence Day 
professionals, 

. Ballad of Big Nothing much like Smith. rather than the
. Coming Up Roses 
casual fan. 

. 
Night Time Near I.he end of the night,

. 
Pitseleh 


Smith played a 

. Last Call 
Big Star cover, 

which has become almost customary at his shows. With most of the crowd suggesting "Thirteen." he went with "Night Time." a rather desperate song on a night in which Smith seemed to be anything but. His soothing voice and heartfelt lyrics have made him a college girl mix-tapA staple, and his performance showed why. Look for his new album on April 18, as well as the new Division Day EP released last week. 
The opening act, Chicago natives Okay Go!, pleased the crowd with their lyrical, poppy songs and colorful stage antics. This extremely witty band kicked off their set with the mid-80's hit "Don't Get Me Wrong," prompting the lead singN to proclaim them as a Pretenders cover band. 
They then proceeded to rip through a set of their own eclectic originals, rang­ing from punk-pop to Weezer-like power chord ballads, all while the keyboardist did his best to bring the Kraftwerk robots to life. 
To end their set. they did something unprecedented in the annals of rock­they covered the headlining act. They played a blistering version of Smith's own "Clementime," providing a nir.e contrast to the acoustic set he was about to play. Okay Go! is an rrnjoyable live act, and being that they play regularly in the Chicago area. would be worth the trip alone to see. 

Tuesday, March 7, 2000 page 13 
Music COLUMN 
Let us say 'Ughhh 
Long live rap music' 
WhP.n. I read Andrew Jones' artirfo two weP-ks ago about music at ND dances and on the radio. I was shockc~d and disniayrd by tlw inconsistency of his opinions. It serms hypm:ritiral lo rriliL'izc rap while 
praising the Hect !lot Chili PeppPrs, thc Davi' Matthews 
Hand and Phish. lie stated that while Im can occasionally lis­ten to rap. •we, as a campus. can not a{·tuallv t·onsidcr it 


music. ·11c rlaimrd 
Todd Callais

that rap was only about ridiculous or unoriginal topics like prostitution. drugs Scene music or "ghetto lifP in critic gP1wral... Finally lw statfd that rap is ovcrplayPd at dam'.PS and that it turns us into mindless zombies flailing our bodies around to random b11ats and pro­l'aniti1is put forth by rap icons. 
l\,Jr. Jones' solution -listen to solid musical groups like Dave Matthews Band and Phish -both of which Im fop]s an' great as dancr' music I sup­posP. \\fpl] if' I can't be madP to say ughh at a party. I am glad that I am not invit­Pd. I will respond to Jones· arguments in tlw short amount of space that Tim ObsPrwr has blPssed me with. 
Hap music is music. plain and simple. and this is the only point on whirh I am not !1PxiblP. Going ba('k to its roots in lhP late '70s and early '80s. rap came about as an evolution of blues and jazz. Many struggling artists la,ked Lhc 
UPCOMING CONCERTS 
South Bend 

John Waite  Heartland  
Kenny Wayne Shepherd  Heartland  
Counc•na Crows  Norr•s Cen(er  

Indianapolis 

Backstree1 Boys Conseco Narc Anthony Nurat Theatre Ke.~n Conseco Creed Conseco Crosby, S1Uls, Conseco Nash & Yount Oasjs Nura-c Theatre 
Chicago 

Sevendusc v•c l'hea.tre G LoYe & Special Sauce Vic l'heat.-­Fiona Apple R•viera Thllrd Eye Blllnd Riviera LH House of Blues Filter Riviera Britney Spears Allstate APena Mariah Carey United Center Custer House of Blues BrookS&Dunn Allstate Arena Widespread Panic UIC Pavilion 
resources lo buy instruments or DJ equipment so they created styles like 
beat box to enable them to still makP music. f'rorn the laid-back grooves of Q­Tip and Mos Def to the in-your-face style of Master P and Spice 1, rap has shown a diversity and brilliance that places it alongside all other genres of music. With perfect harmony of lyrics and btiats that make people want to danr:e and learn every word. rap has the ability Lo take hold of people and draw them in. Despite what Mr. Jones 
belioves, it docs not take a 15-minute guitar solo to makP. music good. Music is what drives people, what put5 them in different moods. what makes them want 
to dance and celebrate. Rap is not only 
music, but grnat music to many peoplP. 
Jones next tries to point out that rap music is onlv about ridiculous and uno­riginal topic~,; like drugs and prostitu­tion. Groups like Public Enemy created beats and lyrirs that expressed the plight of a race that was still struggling despite efforts of the civil rights era. NWA and KRSl gave a voice to the thousands of Americans that face police brutality whilf' no one listens, and answers the people that think discrimi­nations in the criminal justice system are only isolated incidents. 
In the '90s. Tupac, Puff Daddy, No Limit Records. DMX. Eve, Jav-Z and many others have provided testimony of the problems and enjoyments in the lives or rappers and the people that they feel close to. Read The Source Magazine and you will find articles about rap but also about the situation in South Africa, the death penalty, Health Insurance for the underclass. and effertive programs 
ment is "a picture of nec­Music is what drives Furthermore. I disagree tar." Can Andrew Jones that rap is played over
people, what puts

criticize the misogyny, half the time at any drug culture and pulsat­them in different party. I would say that it ing rhythm in rap while moods, what makes is pop and random stuff advocating "Give it like the Grease
them want to dance

Away" by the Red Hot megamix. which I will
and celebrate.

Chili Peppers, a song unite with Andrew Jones 
Mar. t7 
Mar. 28 
May23 
Mar. 10-11 Mar. 14 Nar. llt Mar. 22 Mar. 24 
Apr. 22 
Mar~>• 
Mar. ll Nar. 11 Mar. ·t7•l•· 'Mlar•. 10 tur. 22 Mar, t. 'l•t. 3 Nar. !5 Apr. I Apr. 7 Apr. 18 

for urban renewal. 
In a year of subscribing to the Phish newsletter in high school, the most interesting thing I read about was whAther or not one of the membfffS should cut his hair. Can we honestly criticize rap for its "silly" topics while promot.i.ng Phish? Consider the numer­ous "serious" Phish topics. This group has a ten-minute song where they end­lessly repeat the name David Bowie. Another popular song is about a weasel named Fee that just wants to be free. ThPre's yet another song wherr the most intelligiblfl state­
that itself promotes promiscuity from a band that talks about or alludes to drug culture in half of their songs? And the drug use of groups like Phish and Dave Matthews is a matter of public record. I would say that all music has its imperfections. but no one should venture to say that rap is the least cultured form of music because it doesn't tone down its lyrics. 
There is the issue of rap music being overplayed as well as Jones' request to stop hearing it (he also talks about pop and 80's music but focuses mostly on rap). Jones makes a bold statement by saying that maybe we listen to rap so much because of diversity issues on campus. This is pretty much insulting and non-sensical because it ignores the fact that many people actually like rap music. He gives no reason why the racial composition of campus would prompt us to listen to more rap. Jones speaks on our behalf by saying that although the Oavc Matthews Band is overplayed, we would rather hear that at dances than rap. I. however, whole­heartedly disagree. I think Dave Matthews produces great music, but from the people I have talked to and by my own opinion, a real party would not last four songs into any "Dave" album without a large portion of peoplf) leav­
ing the floor. 
in defeating. 
Finally Jones states that Phish con­certs prove that people can dance to the music, but I would point out that flailing around in a pot-induced semi-slumber is no more dancing than what people supposedly do when they hear rap music. 
In conclusion, I am a fan of all the groups mentioned above and feel that you accept all musicians' flaws and bril­liance. One should not point out the shortcomings of a genre they do not like while ignoring the problems with their own taste. 
I close with one question. How can you enjoy dancing in a large group of people if everyone is worried about stepping on someone's Birkenstocks? 
NEW RELEASES 
Today 

Black -'c,lt ~ l.ife·.•StoryGuided By Voi41es .. Hold On Hope Jimmie Date GHmore • One Endless Night N 2 N • Shades of Purple llight & Day • Night & Day Violent Femmes • Freak Magnet 


crac:k•r ... c;araae .D•or eels -Da•ses of the Galaxy Poison •<Crack,a.Smile 
Fran ... ••••..••,.. ••••••• ••natra 


ICe·CUbe .. ~~..';~,~f.\~Ce, Vol. 2 
.Jon• llitc:bell;, Both ••des Now 
•11·sync-llca,~,.-1nas Attaehed PaUie s1n•1J1 -Gung Ho 


Fatboy SHm -On che·'1•or ac the Boutllque 
Kiss ~<Alive 1v 
courtesy of ticlletmaster.ciom 


WOMEN'S BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIP 

Connecticut advances to finals with 79-54 win 
Associa1ed Press 
STORRS, Conn. 
Tamika Williams had 16 points and anchored a domi­nating post game as No. 1 Connecticut beat Boston College 79-54 on Monday in the semifinals of the Big East tournament. 
UConn (29-1) will play Rutgers for the title Tuesday. The defending champion Huskies have won the last six tournament titles. 
It was RC's first appearance in the semifinals since 1990. The No. 17 Eagles have not been to a final since 1987 when they lost to Villanova. 
Williams got most of her inside feeds from Svf'tlana Abrosimova, who finished with a career-high IO assists. 
The Huskies outscored Boston College 50-18 in the paint using a deep and talent­ed bench to wear down the Eagles (25-8). UConn reserves accounted for 39 points. 
UConn·s defense pressured BC into 16 tirsL half turnovers, and on tht' offensive end, the Huskies wenl inside to Williams early and often. 
With UConn up 6-4, the power forward scored eight of the next 14 points. 
Shea Ralph and Asjha Jones combined for six in the 14-0 run to give UConn its biggest lead of the half, 20-4 with 12:48 rnmaining. 

Five straight BC turnovers kept the Eagles scoreless for nearly five minutes. 
The Eagles' inside game began to heat up midway through the half, and the spark was sophomore forward Becky Gottstein, who finished with 19 points. She hit three of BC's last four field goals and the Eagl<'s trailed 34-23 at the break, but would get no closer. 
The Huskies continued the pressure in the post to start the second half got the same results. They opened with a 12-4 on five inside baskets and a pair of free throws to go up 46-27 with 13:52 left. UConn led by as much as 32 in the period. 
CConn capitalized with 31 points on 25 BC turnovers, 
Gottstcin was playing in her third straight game since returning from a right ankle stress fracture that sidelined her for six weeks. 
8efore the injury she led the conference with 10 rebounds a game and was the second leading scorer on the tf>arn. She got five boards in the first half, but was held to a pair in the second. 
UConn outrebounded· the Eagles 39-31. Abrosimova and Kelly Schumacher had six apiece. 
Alissa Murphy had 13 points for the Eagles. 

NBA 

Garrity seals win for Orlando with buzzer beater 
turn an 82-78 deficit into an the field. Atkins came off the The Magic held a 51-38 a 52-49 halftime lead. 
Associated Press 

85-82 lead in the final minute. bench to lead the Magic with rebounding edge, led by former Hamilton got rolling in the 
Washington rookie Richard 15 points. Rookie Corey Wizard Ben Wallace's 16 second half, scoring 15 of his 
WASHINGTON Hamilton made a 3-point shot Maggette added 14. rebounds. Orlando had 18 points to help the Wizards stay 
Pat Garrity made a fadeaway with 12.2 seconds left to tie the Hamilton had a career-high offensive rebounds to just six close. jumper from the top of the key score. The Magic then called 25 for Washington. for the Wizards. 
Notes: 

as time expired to give the timeout and ran a play for Orlando has beaten The Magic's reserves, nick­
. Juwan Howard played his 

Orlando Magic a come-from­Garrity, who got the ball at the Washington in 10 of their last named "The Magnificent 
15,000th minute in the first

behind 87 -85 victory over the top or the key, wheeled and 12 meetings and did so this Seven," scored 50 of the team's 
quarter.

Washington Wiz~rds on threw up a jumper that went in time without Hon Mercer, who 87 points. 
. The Magic now are 15-26

Monday night. as the buzzer sounded. was not in uniform because of Maggette came off the bench Chucky Atkins scored seven Garrity finished with only five an ankle sprain suffered in to lead a 14-2 second-quarter when Wallace wears his hair in straight points for the Magic to points, shooting 2-for-6 from Sunday's loss against Boston. run that helped the Magic take corn rows. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame oHtce, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content wirhour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

WEB DESIGNER NEEDED B'NB REGISTRY Need help with a project? 
National Publication has opening 219-291-7153 Complete DESKTOP PUBLISHING for designer to help improve and services are available at
NOTICES LOST & FOUND FOR RENT 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Store Hours Mon-Thur: 7:30arn-Mid Fri: 7:30arn-7:00pm Sat: Noon-6:00pm Sun: Noon-Mid Free Pick-Up & Delivery! Call 631-COPY We're open late so your order will be done on time' 
GRADUATION ROOMS AVAIL­ABLE' 
Need hotel rooms for graduation weekend? There are still rooms available in the Michiana area for graduation 2000. For more inlormation, please con­tact Anthony Travel at 1x7080 or in the LaFortune basement 
Used Books. 30% off cover price. Pandoras books at Notre Dame 233-2342, 12pm-5pm. 
Dead Sea Scrolls Research http:!lwww.geocities.com:80/Athens /Rhodes/7031 /deadseas.html 
Gold Wedding band with inscribed date found outside bookstore Call 219-634-1892 
WANTED 
ASPIRING WRITERS! www maincarnpus.com seeks st.u­dents tor stories ranging from Politics/Sex/Culture/Opinions $25 per story! 
Email usat: 
earn@maincampus.com 
FLOOR HOCKEY OFFICIALS 
Officials needed for Campus Floor Hockey. It's good money and good times! Experience helpful, but we do train everybody. Attend the mandatory officials meeting on Wed. 3/8@ 7pm in Rolf's Sports Rec. Center or contact Brandon Leimbach @ 631-3536 

maintain existing sites. 277-0033 www.nkn.com 
ATTENTION SOUND ENGINEERS Local Sound Company has open­ings for experienced FOH engi­neers and stage hands. 
Call 277-0032 www.thesoundcompany.com 
GRAPHIC LAYOUT International racing publication has opening for computer graphics lay­out person. Looking for fresh excit­ing designs to improve established magazine. Flexible hours. 277-0033 
Editor/proof reader needed to work with writers for national publication. Flexible hours, Call 277-0033 
Job opportunity for reliable, self-motivated student to work for ortho­dentist. Run errands, make deliver­ies, and light maintenance. Hours flexible. Call Mary, Shawn, or Stacey at 234-2143 between 8-4. 
ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE AND CLOSE http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ email:mmmrentals@aol.com 
232-2595 
Available '00-01. 4-6 Student Rental House ... 2 1/2 baths: lots of space; Parking Lot and Laundry... Dave 291-2209 
Look! New home for rent. 3/4 bed· room, 3 bath, cathedral ceilings. ffireplace, refrig, range, disp, dish, washer and dryer, gas heat C/A, 2 car garage, family room, close to campus. call: 616-683-5038 219-232-4527 219-340-1844 
1721 Rarick, 3 bflrloom, family room with fireptir,e, fenced back, yard, CIA gas leat, across from park, very s,'Te neighborhood, $995/mmlh, 12 mo. lease call 616-Gro-5038 219-=32-4527 219340-1844 
B&B for ND grad & Football 3 miles. 4 rooms. 287-4545 

HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 5-bed­room, $1000/rnonth. 2) 4-bedroom, $900/month. 3) 3-bedroom, $700. Call Bill at 675-0776. We'll m?Ae almost any changes to the ,louses. 
FOR 5.~LE 
New Phcne Card 8W,mhs. $20 .:!58-4805 or 243-9361 

95 Nissan Sentra. 4 door, 69k miles, new tires, 1 owner, excellent condition, call 291-2528 
PERSONAL 
www.thecommentator.com 

hey erin, how's it going? whats up whats up? i'II see you in a bit bye 
THE COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Stude1t Center 
Call 631-CG'PY 
FLl!.L COLOR Copying Printing Scanning 
THE COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
Call 631-COPY 
Turner, Get better man 
Despite rumors to the contrary, 
Connolly and Chuk would have 
remained at the Welsh party had they been more coherent. 
Does fencing a girl count for one of the six Harris? 
!hope I don't have a midterm tomor­row 
Lesbian? Gay? Christian? Looking for others who are trying to balance teh same? join our confidential Wednesday evening conversation. Call Tom 1­4112 or Tami 1-3016 for info 

Tuesday, March 7, 2000 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 



Happy
0MPU5 t\111Nl5TRY J2K! 
This Week in Campus Ministry 

Monday, February 14 through Friday, March 24 103 Hesburgh Library Senior Retreat #2 ( Mor. 31-Apr. 1 ) Sign-Up 
Monday, March 6 lhrough Monday, April 3 103 Hesburgh library Freshman Retreat #29 (April 7-8) Sign-Up 
Targeled dorms: Carroll, Cavanaugh, Dillon, Farley, fisher, Pangborn, Morrissey, Stanford, and Welsh Family 
Tuesday. March 7 7:00 p.m Bodin Hall Chapel Campus Bible Study 
Wednes~ay. March 8, 8:00 p.m. Wilson Commons 
Graduate Student Bible Study Group 
Wednesday. March 8, 10:00-10:30 p.m. Walsh Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Wednesday, March 8. 11 :30 a.m. and 5: 15 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Ash Wednesday Liturgies 
Sunday, March 12 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
First Sunday of lent 
Good Stuff to Know 
Fourth Annual Gay and Lesbian Retreat 
March 31-April 1 
For undergraduate students who are gay, lesbian or questioning. Also welcome are students withfamily members or friends who are gay or lesbian. 
• 
Student talks 

• 
Conversation 


• Prayer 
Applications available from Campus Ministry or Rectors. 
Questions: Tom 1-4112 or doyle.22@nd.edu Tami 1-3016 or schmitz.8@ndedu 

Mardi Gras is the day before Ash Wednesday, the first day ofLent. Today, however, is traditionally known as "Shrove Tuesday", because ir was the day on which "shrift" or confession was made in preparation for the great fast of the Lenten season of 40 days. Shrove Tuesday is called in French Mardi gras "Fat Tuesday," in allusion to the fat ox which is ceremoniously paraded through the streets on chis day. In Catholic countries Mardi gras is celebrated as the last day of che carnival, with feasting and merrymaking, of which, in England, the eating of pancakes alone survives as a social custom. The day had been called at one time "Pancake Tuesday." In the U.S., the festival season preceding Ash Wednesday and the Lenten season particu­larly associated with New Orleans is known, of course, as Mardi Gras. The season begins New Year's day and concludes with parades, pageantry and a ball on Shrove Tuesday. 
Frequently Asked Questions: 
Where do the traditions of Mardi Gras and Ash Wednesday originate? 
By Fr. Peter Rocca, C.S.C.,
Rector of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
The choice ofa period of forty days ofpen­ance and preparation for both the faithful as well as catechumens seeking baptism at Easter is a deliberate imitation ofJesus' fasting in the desert for forty days and forty nights. As the Sundays of Lent were never intended to be fast days, six weeks of six days fast each week ( =36 days) needed the supplement of four more days. Hence the season was moved backwards to Wednesday, later known as Ash Wednesday. 
It had been decided at a very early time that the special penance for those guilty of serious sin should start at the beginning of Lent. Peni­
d d I d h d 
tents onne a penitentia garment an a ashes sprinkled on them. Then came the rite of 
expulsion from the church. The wearing of special penitential garment and the sprinkling with ashes as an expression ofsorrow and repentance were already familiar to the Old Testa­ment and pagan antiquity. Jesus himself refers to chis practice (see Mt. 11:21). The early church was also familiar with the practice (e.g. Tertullian and St. Cyprian). 
Although the institution of public penance disappeared toward the end of the first mil­lennium, the custom of imposing ashes was restored and applied to all the faithful. Clerics and laymen had ashes sprinkled on their heads; women had a sign of the cross made with ashes on their foreheads. From antiquity and the Old Testament down to the most recent church documents, this action has-been seen as a symbol of transiency, sorrow and penance. 
The three traditional stages needed for a true change of heart during Lent are repen­tance, conversion and reconciliation, themes mentioned time and time again by Pope John Paul II as particularly appropriate during this Holy Year. The chief means to achieve such a change of heart has traditionally included prayer, fasting and almsgiving, as prescribed in the gospel reading for Ash Wednesday (Mt. 6:1-6, 6-18). 
The first reading ---------------------­
of this day from the l prophet Joel (2:12-18) The key word is #turn." This turning : sounds the prophet's 
manifests itself in outward signs:
I call for true repen­1 tance. The heart ofthe 
fasting, almsgiving, prayer. But the
I reading is an invitation I to turn away from sin 
essentiql turning is inward.
I and we do this with the 
I full knowledge that the --------------------­1 mercy we ask from God will be granted since his mercy and love are everlasting. l The reading from 2 Corinthians (5:20-6:2) speaks of the continual need we all experi­: ence for conversion and turning to the Lord. The time for the conversion is declared to be "now," for "now" is the day of salvation. : Finally, the gospel reading from Matthew declares chat it is not enough that we perform I the prescribed disciplines of the season. It speaks more about the motivation than about I performance, about the spirit which prompts them, and not that the letter is fulfilled. I The key word for this day is «turn." The prophet Joel cries out the words of the Lord: ! "Even now, return to me with your whole heart." This turning manifests itself in outward I signs: fasting, almsgiving, prayer. But the essential turning is inward. "Read your hearts, not I your garments." I As we turn to God in fasting, prayer and service, God rums with the gift of life. At the I climax of his turning, God made him who did not know sin to be sin that he might turn us / to be the very holjness of God. The Son of God rurned to rake on our nature that we, who I did not know righteousness, might live by his life. I Fasting, alrnsgiving and prayer arc the three traditional practices of Lent which set us in I our proper place before God and others. To live out this authentic relationship is, for the I Christian, its own reward. 
I 
I 
' 1 

NFL 

Green, Vikings try to lure Marino to Minnesota 
Associated Press 
MI~NEAPOLIS 
At least one team in the NFL doesn't think Dan Marino ts washed up. 
Dennis Green is trying to lure the league's c a r e c r passing leader to Minnesota, where he W O LI I d become the Vikings' eighth starter in eight sea­sons. 
Marino turns 39 this vear and has spent his entire ·17-year career in Miami. He is consid­ering an offer from the Vikings. but also considering retirement. 
The Vikings feature receivers Cris Carter and Randy Moss, but they also lost Pro Bowl offensive linemen Randall McDaniel and Jeff Christy to rival Tampa Bay. 
"Dan called me, and Dan said that the Vikings had offered him a contract and he was thinking about it," Carter told WPTV in West Palm Beach, Fla .. on Monday. 
"Before Minnesota called, I think Dan was going to retire," Carter said from his home in Boca Raton, Fla. "I think it real­ly rekindled some interest that he had maybe four or five months ago." 
Carter also said Marino was concerned about uprooting his children. 
Marino was offered Minnesota's starting quarter­back job last week in talks with Green. two sources close to Marino and speaking on condi­tion of anonymity confirmed Monday. 
Marino, who has never won a championship, most likely will decide by the end of the week, one of the sources said. 
The offer was first reported Sunday night by ESPN and Fox Sports Net, citing unidentified sources. 
''I'm just flabbergasted," Dolphins president Eddie Jones said. "I have no idea about Dan Marino and any report about him going anyplace. [ know nothing about where Dan's head is at or what he plans to do." 
But Jones said for the first time Monday that if Marino plays next season, the Dolphins want him. 
"Danny has been told he can come back," Jones said. 
Green didn't return phone calls from The Associated Press on Monday. Last week, he told 

See 
Wednesday's Observer for a preview of the men's Big East Tournament. 

his staff not to discuss the team's quarterback situation in light of heavy criticism of his declaration that Daunte Culpepper, his top draft pick last year. would enter camp as the projected starter. 
But Green told WAFN Radio in Miami he· d love it if Marino and the Vikings pursued their elusive championship rings together. 
''We think this is a perfect merger of a guy who wants one more year to get it done the right way and a team that's looking for that one guy who wants one morn year to get it right," Green said. 
The Vikings haven't offered Jeff George a contract, even though he went 9-3 after com­ing off the bench last season to replace Randall Cunningham, who was demoted 5 112 games into his new $28 million con­tract. 
George's agent, Leigh Steinberg, said he assumed the Vikings would make a push for his client's return once they 
Experi ·ng wi aker? 

freed up enough cap room. In the playoffs, Marino led the Steinberg said he was llabber­Dolphins to a 20-17 victory over gaste<l by the Vikings' pursuit Seattle in the first round. But of Marino instPad. the team was embarrassed 62­
"Do I understand what's 7 the next week against going on in Minnesota? No," Jacksonville, when the Dolphins Steinberg said. "Usually when a trailed 38-0 before Marino even guy goes 9-3 and takes his team completed a pass. to the playoffs, the team tries to After the most lopsided loss in extend his contract very quick­Oolphins history and the most 
ly. It seemed  miserable  
like a mar­riage made in  "We think this is a  afternoon of his career.  
heaven." Cunningham has refused a big pay cut and probably will be jetti­ perfect merger ofa guy who wants one more year to get it done the right way. "  Marino said: "I've never experienced a game like this in my life. Even as a kid. I've  
soned June 1. Marino, who has not  Dennis Green Vikings head coach  never game this."  had a like  
attracted  Marino is the  
much interest  most  prolific  

from other teams, threw 12 passer in NFL history. In 17 touchdown passes and l 7 inter­seasons. he has completed ceplions in 1999, by far lhe 4,967 passes for 61,361 yards worst ratio of his career. He and 420 touchdowns, all NFL also missed five games and records. most of a sixlh because of a But iajuries have taken a toll, neck injury. and Marino's quarterback rat­

motio 

ing of 67.4 ranked 30th in the league. 
He became a free agent last month after voiding his contract with Miami. The Dolphins then signed free agent quarterback Jay Fiedler. 
The Vikings haven't had the money to do much in the free agent market. But Marino's agent, Marvin Demoff, had dis­cussions with the team on a contract that would fit within the salary cap. 
Marino, who had a mediocre 1999, could sign a deal with easily reachable incentives that would not squeeze the Vikings too much. 
The Vikings, who have shak­en up their roster and coaching staff this offseason. are hoping Marino won't pass up a shot at playing with Carter and Moss, who thrived last year with the equally strong-armed George. 
When the Dolphins signed Fiedler to a three-year, $3.8 million contract, it seemed clear Marino had played his last game in Miami. 

oney $$$$$ 
Work for The Observer Ad Design Department 
If you are a Freshman, Sophomore or Junior with Mac skills and want to work for a few hours a week call Brett Huelat at 246-1488 or stop by The Observer office in the basement of the South Dining Hall. You will not find a better job on campus! Great Pay!! Very Flexible!!! 




----~ 
Tuesday, March 7, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
WOMEN'S BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIP 
Husky fever alive as UConn plays for Big East title 
STORRS. Conn. 

It's nearly an hour bt'fore the start of the r:onnccticut-Boston College semifinal game of the wo1111.m's Big East tourna­ment on l\1ondav. 
Stnvc and Ka(cn Wilson stand in front of the South r,ntrancc of' the c;ampci Pavilion, their dhows rnsting on a thren-foot high concrete wall. The nrnrriccl couple. residents of nearbv Chaplin, Conn .. ar;~ linishing the last drags of' their ciga­
rPLt1\s b<'ic)rc f\ntrr­
ing tlw arcma. 
Stt'vc in his UConn hat and Karr>n in trnr blue "Connecticut bas-ki>tball" sweatshirt \.Vith XXL embla­zon<1d across the middlo, arc getting rnady to SHH t!rnir beloved Iluskies com­pPtf' against their neighboring rivals. This is the second time they have seen Connecticut live this year, the first being n 72-71 loss to Tennessee on reb. 2, the Huskies' only defeat of this season. 
Lyi11g on the concrete wall is a white post.er with alternating blue and white letters spelling UConn. Below the UConn, in black letters, is the word "Rocks." 
"I got on TV the last time I had a poster." explains Steve with a grin. UConn Rocks, That phrase exprnsses the feelings of' many in Husky Nation. 
With their state located between Nr,w York and Boston, Connecticut profes­sional sports fans' loyalties are divided. There arc Hed Sox supporters and Yankee fans. Some prefer the Patriots; others like the Jets or Giants. Both Celtics and Knicks, Bruins and Rangers fans pnpulate the Nutmeg State. 
But when it comes to college basket­
ball. there's only one team in town. And for good reason. The Huskies have won the last seven 
Big East regular season titles and six­straight tournament championships. In the 1990s. they participated in three Final Fours and six Elite Eight appear­ances. The 1995 team finished the sea­son at 35-0 en route to the national title. 
Five I Iusky alums are currently in the WNBA, including three former national college Player of the Year recipients ­Rebecca Lobo, Jennifer Rizotti and Kara Wolters. 
These feats haven't gone unnoticed by the locals. 


All of the Connecticut regular season games sold out during the summer. Eighty members of the media regularly attend each home game, be it a January date with West Virginia or a nationally televised game against Tennessee. 
Getting a ticket for a game is as tough as predicting the weather in South Bend during the winter. The Wilsons were lucky enough to get their tickets through Karen's brother's company. Without those conner.lions, they would be sitting on their couch, watching the game with their thrne daughters. 
"We watch all the games," the Wilsons said. "We were fortunate tonight [getting tickets]." 
The Wilsons weren't the only Connecticut !'ans getting ready to enter Garnpr.l before the warm-ups began. 
As thousands rmtered the North entrance, they were greeted with high­fives by the team's mascot. the aptly named Husky. 
Ruses transported fans from cars parked miles away from the stadium. 
Ticket scalpers searched for any inter­ested buyers. There were plenty. Sellers are sr.arcc before Husky games. It's a far cry from the Irish home games, where you can't give away enough tickets to fill the Joyo• Center. 
The scene is reminiscent of that an hour before an Irish home football game. 
Except the crowd at Gampel is an eighth of the size of Notre Dame Stadium. 
College basketball to them is what col­lege football means to many Irish fans. 
It's the biggest game in town. 

And it's not limited to just the women. The men's team, the 1999 National Champions, regularly sell out all their games. The crowd still chants an ever­present "U-C-0-N-N, UConn!, UConn!, UConn!" 
To witness the atmosphere of Husky Nation, take Route 195 North from Storrs, follow 84 west to 91 South and you'll be in New York City, home of Madison Square Garden, the site of this weekend's men's' Big East tournament. 
Once there, you'll be surrounded by a swarm of blue and white tee-shirts, hats, sweaters, sweatshirts -anything with a UConn logo. They could sell Connecticut toilet paper and these fans would be willing to pay for it. 
In last year's conference championship game against St. John's, you could have sworn it was a Husky home game. Never mind that St. John's is located a few 

Julie Henderson drives on Rutgers center Tammy Sutton-Brown. The Scarlet Knights take on the Huskies in tonight's Big East final. 
miles from the Garden. Tonight, the Connecticut women face Rutgers in the tournament final. 
Rutgers, eighth in the nation beat a very good Notre Dame team 81-72 in overtime on Monday night. The Scarlet Knights play an aggressive defense and feature one of the conference's top play­ers in Shawnetta Stewart. The last time the two teams met, the Huskies squeaked out a 65-60 victory. 
But this is different, this is the Big East 
championship, a title the Huskies have won each of the previous six years. And it's at home, where the Huskies have won 73 Big East games in a row. Tune in tonight at 7:30 on ESPN2 and look for a "UConn Rocks" poster. Steve and Karen Wilson were able to get tickets for the final. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
Gilmore. 
Down by eight with 14:28 left in regulation, Gilmore came off the bench and scored nine straight Knights' points to keep her squad within a basket of the Irish. 40-38. 
"When my shots started falling, I said to myself, 'It's about time,"' said Gilmore. ''I've been struggling with my shooting for some time." 
But as Gilmore's streak wore off, momentum began to swing the way of the Irish. Notre Dame took advantage of Rutgers' center Tammy Sutton­Browne's absence on the court because of a fourth foul and took the ball inside to run up its lead to eight with seven minutes left to play. 


But with three minutes remaining, Sutton-Browne checked back in and momen· tum changed again. Shutting down the Irish in the lane, the Knights dominated on offense and took the lead 61-58 with 
43.3 seconds remaining. 
As Irish guard Danielle Green drove down the lane with a clear shot at the hoop, Stewart sPnt guard Alicia Ratay to the line with an off-ball foul. The stoic freshman nailed the two free throws. cutting the deficit to one, 61-60. 
The Irish fouled Stewart immediately on the in-bounds play, sending her to the line with 34 seconds remaining. The senior hit both, pushing the Knights' lead to two, 62-60. Irish center Ruth Riley came up with the rebound off Stewart's missed foul shot, giving the Irish possession of the ball. 
Danielle Green tried her luck in the lane again and was fouled by Stewart. The senior hit both free throws to tie the game. 
Rutgers had one last chance to score in regulation, but a lay-up from Stewart bounced around the rim and out, send­ing the game into overtime. 
The Knights took control on offense in overtime, leading the whole way. 
"We just wanted it more tonight," said Stewart. "We out-hustled them the whole time." 
Finding themselves down, the Irish were forced to foul, but the Knights were solid from the line, distancing themselves from the Irish by nine points with a minute left to play. 
The Irish could not find a good shot as the Knights tight­ened their defense as the final seconds ticked off the clock and Rutgers advanced to the final round of the tournament. 
Riley led the Irish with 20 points from the paint and Ratay chipped in 15 from the outside to pace the squad. 
"Most teams have double teamed me all year," said Riley of the Knights' defense. "I was just happy to be able to score or get the ball to Julie !Henderson] or Niele [Ivey] when I could." 
Stewart directed the Knights' offense with 23 points and Sutton-Brown added 17. 

The Irish struggled on the boards all night. The Knights outrebounded the Irish 39-27 and took advantage of many second and third looks on offense. 
Rutgers, which avenged reg­ular season losses to Villanova and Notre Dame in the tourna­ment, will have a chance to make up for its loss to Connecticut earlier in the sea­son when the Knights meet the No. 1 team tonight in the tour­nament finals. 
"We're just trying to survive and advance," said senior Knights' guard Tasha Pointer, who had eight points Monday. "We're just taking it one game at a time." 
The Irish have almost two weeks off to regroup before they begin their run for the NCAA title next week. 
"I don't know [what this does to our tournament hopes]. I don't know how tho NCAA thinks," said Irish head coach Muffct McGraw of her team's loss. "I think we deserve a home game, but we're proba­bly a second or third seed." ' 
The NCAA selection commit­tee will release the tournament seedings Sunday. 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 

Irish pull away from Pioneers with late surge 

JEFF HSU/The Observer 
Junior goalie Carrie Marshall looks to deny an opposing attack player. Marshall tallied seven saves during Sunday's game while splitting time with Massachusetts-transfer Tara Durkin. 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Sports Writer 
The Irish scored seven unanswered goals in 17 min­utes as Notre Dame broke open a 5-4 first half lead into a 18-7 victory over the Denver Pioneers Sunday in Colorado. 
With 20 minutes left in the first half, t!w Irish led by just one goal. The slow start, how­ever, did not concern captain Laci 0'Shaughnessy. 
"Jt usually takes us a little bit to get rolling but w1-1 usual­ly pull it out," O'Shaughnessy said. "I guess it just took us until then to get into our groove." 
()'Shaughnessy scornd two goals in tlrn first half' and two goals in the second hall' to lead the Irish in scoring. The junior from Alexandria, Va., who led the Irish in goals last year with 50, also picked up an assist. 
The slow start for the Irish did not surprise 0'Shaughncssy either. The Irish tended to start slow last year as well. 
"We have just always had a hard time starting right off the bat," she said. "But I think we started a lot quicker [SundayJ than we usually have." 
Starting three freshmen Sunday also played a factor in the slow start. Although the Irish practiced in the fall and defeated Virginia in an exhibi­tion last weekend, the Irish are still adjusting to playing with each other. 

"It's just getting comfortable with each other," O'Shaughrrnssy said. "It takes a whole season to get comfort­able with each other really." 
The three freshman who did start Angela Dixon, Danielle Shearer and Kelly Mccardell -all played well for the Irish. 
Dixon scorNI thrne goals and added an assist. Dixon's three goals placed her third on the team i11 goals -behind ()'Shaughnessy and sopho­morn Alissa Moser who Pach had four. 
"I was really happy for her," 0'Shaughnessy said about Dixon. "l was glad she stepped up for us but she still has to get her freshman nfll'VPS out of her. She played well in practice with us so I was glad that she wasn't too scarPd or too nervous in her first game." 
Shearer tied 0'Shaughnessy for the lead in points with two goals and thrne assists. 
Mccardell, who played with the U.S. undcr-19 national team this summer. started on an Irish defensr, that yielded just 23 shots and won the groundball battle, 34-23. Mccardell also picked up an assist. 
In her first start after trans­ferring from the University of Massachusetts, Irish goalkeep­er Tara Durkin made 10 saves while Carrie Marshall, last year's starting goalkeeper, came in and made seven saves. 

•
• 

McKinsey&Company 
Programs will be held on May 18-21 and August 24-27. Locations are yet to be determined. 
A Three-Day Insider's Look into Management Consulting for College Juniors 
McKinsey & Company, a management consulting firm with over 5,500 consultants in 80 offices in 42 countries, invites you to gain insight into the world ofmanagement consulting. This comprehensive seminar, designed exclusively for college juniors, will cover a range of topics important to those who are exploring career opportunities in management consulting. The agenda will include: 
• 
An introduction to consulting via case excercises 

• 
Team-based problem solving exercises 

• 
An interview workshop 


• 
Recreational, team-building activities 


Applicants should be expecting to finish their undergraduate degree in 2001. No business experience is required. 
All applications must be received by March 13. 
Applicants will be notified by mid-April. 
For more information and an application, visit our web site at http:/fwww.mckinsey.com/insightba or pick up a brochure from your career services office. 
To learn more, please join us: Wednesday, March 8 7:00-9:00 p.m. Room 100 Center for Continuing Education 
h t t p //www.mckinsey.com/insightb 
...... 
Tuesday, March 7, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
Janney leads Quakers to I0-7 victory over Irish 
By STEVE KEPPEL Sp,nrs Writer 
Dnspitc! jumping out to an 
narly 2-0 !Pad, the Notre Dame 1rn1n·s lacrossfl team was upset by 1'1•nnsylvania on Saturday 10-7. 
Tlw Quakers' defPnse came on strong aftP,r the quick Irish oµm1i11g, rendering tlw nxplo­sivP Irish atlack scorrdrss for 
I :i straight minutPs. 
l'<•nn scorPd the next l'ive goals. thrnn of which were scori•ct bv last scrrson's lvv l.1•ague 1;,,Hl11r Pnte Janney. .la111wv IPd tlw Qualrnrs with four grials as he trrrnrizrd the 
Irish clt>l'nnsn. 
,\l't1•r going up by two Parly on, Nolrn Dame s1:nmerl to bl'iiPv1• that it would roll over PPnn much likP thPy did PP1m Stat1\. 
"W1• wnren't prnpared. They had s1·outC'cl our offonse and wn didn't eVl'll get to look at 
any tape of them," said junior Dave Ulrich. "We' came out thinking we were going to blow them out." 
The Quakers, with I.heir one­on-one dAfense. r.onfused the normally balanced Irish offense all day. 
Penn's d('f('nSP had prepared well for :-Jotre Dame's attack and gave llrnm troub!A on defense ½'hile their underrated offense kept control of the ball for mur.h of the afternoon. 
"Thev had the ball the whole time, and 1.he fow times w11'd get it. WP would panic and try to do too much," said Ulrich, who ltid the Irish with three goals. "Their defi>nse was rnally Lough. Our guys \\ho normally score were shut down." 
The Penn defcnsP was in r.ontrol but Notre Dame's offense still had some good chances. The Irish. howevPr, failC'd to capitalize, similar to the first half of the Penn State game. 

"We definitely oulshot them. We just couldn't capitalize." Ulrich said. "I think we played hard but we didn't execute." 
The Notre Dame defense struggled, giving up 10 goals, but goalie Kirk Howell did come up with 14 saves in another solid performance. 
The loss will not hurt Notre Dame's standing in the Great Wcst-ern Lacrosse League. since Penn is not in the League, but team members stressed the loss was not with­out consequence. 
"We need to win games like this to be successful," Ulrich said. "This loss doesn't affect our league standings, but it could come back to haunt us do:vn,. the road if we end up in a tie. 
The Irish will travel to Colorado for two matches next weekend. They face University of Denver on Saturday and Air rorce Academy on Mar. 13. 

JEFF HSUffhe Observer 

Senior midfielder Stedman Oakey evades defenders in a game
T-H E TASTY BACON 
against Penn State earlier this season. 

CHEDDAR WHOPPER: 
T H I N K O F I T A S A W H OP P E R® T H A T ' S DRESSED UP WITH SOMEPLACE TO GO. 



T H E WH O P P E R • W I T H A N E W T W I S T F·o R A L ! M I T E D T I M E • ---------•------------
Aureate Media If you're already a fan of "America's Favorite Burger," why not try it a whole new way? 


With crispy bacon and melted cheddar cheese, it's sure to put a smile on your face. So head to a BURGER KING"' restaurant soon and make sure to bring your appetite. 
The Huddle -Lafortune Student Center 
LOOKING FDR I JOB? 
•• lltd, Pl'DUl'lm.1111n. prodacl ··••DIH, dlllblll 1na1¦e1rs, lld Wlb llllfDffll. 1....,. 
1,01111111.ca ¦ 

NO!'UlCllASli~V. Toiilcli«iilo,--••U.3,..._11,,_.•--.,,,,,..,.__._"',,,_,,.,_
C'~-••ll'lllllall--&11111•1~r...-....... "'••_.........,_....___ t,-......,,. 
QrtJot---p....-..i.ikll.tWll,,..,,,U#le.add-...,._..,___.ud ...... --lol; ,____......~.-f:111« Awflcai"""c-i_. Mloll....,-1o<. ltl6B Old Ml1MldMM W17. .libtui ¦ Vllw.CAN>t'-~--,,o._,.._•~bu.loll ~-.,-11o-....,..i,.1!111iio01_1,c_.,,.1,y-.1~,.... .li.T~A,,lll,:IXID. 0..lllataN..-e<1lJll»llillN.-sd­""-Mo--•-ort•p.,..dp,_..;u.,_.........._ Wi_....,.-.-..........-dP'~lalli,o~-.wk..-.tlllrit(l,I....... 
i1111t1<>W:~-or1kJld_b..,_,._,1111c1«111,....-......... ~.•--~..-JfN_,,._ w;..,.d/llr 
-•n.dl,y,_.l..,.._I, w1.........,..i., ..,-adooctodlb<~i•1""",,__-:-WO<l.,willt._.,...~W.,-l,1!IIXI-0,W.gf
•.....,...111.~..,. ..~~par1wi,.i1H. Tt,..arati....a...,...illillr),.r,.,...;-. n.-....ii»-•t~....,.._~...,..__ 
1•I1wAurat9•0IWM<,willlMtoqUh-.:119-IMroU-..g: UaullJ.,.d~ll-.Afflda.. oflill.,.aitJ_S._o.,.,._
---~-Al~.°"-11•a.hlelcd'1"-'--~~191•1oldMi<lidkf"""Wl)',...__Vlto9.CA,-«Ml. ,_.__ 
i,1,11.m,rorr..i.it""'w111o1o<,w,.._..i1bo.a1.... ~1ot,¦,;1ia,a•1h.-...,._t...,,.._ ¦-1,odr•....,,,._.,. ~-lotMlbA..-•M,odll~io¦.UDl:.H .."9pl....il>IIC-~-,..._.W-C...,,...---¦.,.._-. WJ;.,-'-'1N.-a...i.t..o,,...!lr--""l•l-...lill'..,.,..,......1.....,_,.:..t,~«-.......or.,._ ....,.,_ ,_<rrtoil,o-VOIDWHllEHOH!DrTEP. 

HOCKEYCCHA TOU/lNAMENT-March 10, 11, 12 
First Hound {March 10, 11., 12} Tickets are on sale now!! Play-In Game {March 11/J Tickets also available!! $11 Adults., $6 Students Er Youth 
Student Ticket Pick-Up March 7th • {First 150 are free.} Gate 3 Ticket Windows $6 atter the 150 free tickets 
SOFTBALL 


LIZ LANG/The Observer Sophomore Kas Hoag gets ready to take off from first base during a game last season. The softball team claimed the title at last weekend's State Line Classic. 
Irish shutout competition 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
Spom Writer 
Notre Dame softball went undefeated with four shutouts this weekend to grab th,~ championship title at tho State Line Classic in Bristol, Tenn. 
Sophomore pitcher Michelle Moshe! was named the tour­nament MVP with 14 strike­outs in 11 innings while allowing just three hits. Also joining the all-tournament team were Melanie Alkire, Jarrah Myers and Andria Bledsoe. 
"I was real pleased with the performance of the team this weekend. in particular the pitching staff," head coach Liz Miller said. 
The Irish, now 11-4 overall. kicked off the weekend with a 4-0 win over Tennessee . Pitcher Jennifer Sharron held the Volunteers to three hits while striking out seven. 
rreshman Alexis ~adrid singled and eventually scored while junior Alkire also sin­gled to drive in Sharron in tho third to give the Irish a 2­0 lead. Juniors Lizzy Lemire and Danielle Klayman both singled to drive in runs in tlw fourth to give the Irish a 4-0 win. 
Not.re Dame grabbed its second win of the dav with a 1-0 victory over Virgii'-iia Tech in the eighth inning. Moshe! struck out 12 while allowing just one hit to grab her first shutout this year. Freshman Blodsoe singled in the top of tlrn eighth to send in Myers for the win. With the tying run on third in the bottom of the inning. Moslrnl held oll to force a f'oul out and a strike­out fur the Notre Dame win. 
"The Virginia Tech game was a pitcher's duel all the way," Miller said. "Moshe! pitched a great game." 
Alkire led the Irish with her career's first solo no-hitter and a two-run homerun in the Notre Dame 8-0 win over Kentucky. Myers also grabbed a two-run homer and Jennifer Kriech finished with two doubles to add to the Irish offense. Alkire allowed just three walks with four strikeouts in the 24th no-hit­ter in Notre Dame's history. 
Notre Dame grabbed its 

•• G0 ~ dclJJc 8:30 p.m. !• ~~ e t> . Rockne 301: 
< "'V.lll. : ·'-l US : 6-: 
This Tuesday learn the Samba 
$2 for a 45 minute beginner lesson. 
$3 for a 90 minute beginner + : : Makmg Lea(1ers for the Air Force and 
• e I 
Better Citizens for Amem:a 
: advance lesson : L 
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• =-=~=-=·~-=====================~ 
fourth shutout and tlrn cham­pionship title with a 3-0 win over Virginia Tnch on Sunday. Aikin,. Kri11ch and Myers all drove in runs to aid the Irish win olfonsivnly while Sharron and Moshel com­bined to allow just four hits, one walk and nine strikoouts. 
"Wo didn't give up a run the entire weekend and that's rcmarkable," Miller said. "Plus we had an extremely strung defense, but there's always room for improve­ment. We need to be able to get down bunts and hit change-ups." 
Notre Dame will play again on Sunday in a double header against San Diego. 
"We have a lot of games over spring break," Miller said. "This is a regrouping week for us." 
CLUB SPORTS Water polo club posts 3-1 weekend 
Ob,crver Staff Report 
Comp1\ting against the pow­ers of the Big Ten brought out tho bost in the women·s water polo team this weekend. 
The club opened with a 13-2 thrashing of Minnesota in the oponing round, before falling in a light 13-10 contest to host Wisconsin. Sophomore Laurnn Kuzniar tallied fivo goals to keep tho team within striking distance for tho entire game. 
'.'Jotrc Dame rebound<'d in the 1wxt round to defeat nemesis Illinois 6-4. and closed the weekend with a 5-3 victory over Northwestern. Liz Parolin was named the outstanding Irish player for the weekend. 
Figure Skating 
The figure skating club's svn­chronized team linished a v~ry rospoctablo eighth in the tnam nationals at Plvmouth, Mich. this weekend. In its debut sea­son. the club placed alrnad of established teams such as Providtmce and Oswego Stall~. and narrowly was edged out of seventh place by Princ<~ton. 
Dcfonding champion Miami (Ohio) outdistanced the l'ield, with Delaware and Michigan finishing second and third. 
Senior Lindsay Read was thr\ driving fofl'.e behind tho Lnam's success and growth. She !raves a team that is anxious to improve its ranking at next 

over spring break.
year's nationals. 

A Salute to the Leaders of Tomorrow ­Air Force ROTC Cadets 
College is a time for decision Choose to become a leader 
1 

Smart move. The whole concept of Air Fore~ ROTC revolves around the cult1vat1on of qualit1er: that count for leadership. Whether you're about to start college or have already begun, it's time to rnc1ke your decision, now 
Bowling 
Despite a marked improve­ment in its score. the bowling club finished 35th out of 42 teams at Ohio State's Buckeye Classic. · 
In what was the final tune-up for the National Championship, on Apr. t:-l-16 in Omaha, Nnb.. freshman Jason Pawlak rolled a 210 average to pace tlrn Irish. Sophomore Dave Higato and junior Darren Kraft. approadH~d the 200 plateau. with 198 amt 193 averages, while sophomor1i Kevin Gcrtkon posted a 185. 
Ultimate 
A we,ik1md of near misses did little to dampnn the spirit of thP Ultimate Club at the Mardi Gras Invitational. 
Placed in the "A" brack<~t designed for the 10 best of the 50 teams competing. tlrn club dropped their opener to defond­ing national champion North Carolina State, 13-7. 
Fnishman Paul Slwpard's zon11 dnfonsc lifted the tPam to a 13-6 victorv over RorlwstPr in the second n;und. 
Tho Irish tlwn lost to thr<'P teams rankl'd among tlw top fifteen in thn country, by a total of five points. l.ossPs to (JPl'Pll­nial power llicn, 14-12, tourna­ment favorite Winona State. 1:1­12; and host LSU, B-11, com­pleted the trip. 
Tbe club will compete at the High Tide in Savannah. Ga. 



Tuesday, March 7, 2000 
Tennis 
continued from page 24 
our strength. but as we prac­tico more and more, I think we can get back to where we were." 
Coming into Sunday's show­down with the Nu. 21 Kentucky Wildcats, the Irish were running on fumes. Having played six matches in the previous nine days, Notre Dame was P-xhausted but nev­ertheless found a way to rise to the occasion, pulling out a 7-2 win. 
"l was rf'ally happy with the way we came together," Dasso said. "Everyone picked it up a notch." 
Notre Dame roared through the singles portion of the match. losing nary a set, in establishing a 6-0 lead that rend1wed doubles play mean­ingless. 
"We were very tired," Louderback said. "I think emotion and guts played a big role in some of those matches. To not lose a set against Kentucky -that's impres­sive." 
Dasso dropped just one game in drilling the Wildcats' Carolina Mayorga 6-1. 6-0. BPcky Varnum, Kelly Zalinski, Nina Vaughan, Lindsey Green, and Katie Cunha all scored easy straight set wins, and the rout was on. 
The Irish. however, contin­ued their struggles in doubles, dropping two of three match­es. 
"Losing Kim (Guy) really does hurt," Dasso said. "But I think Katie [Cunha] can step up and play well." 

The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
NBA 

Rockets' Barkley hired as TV analyst 
Associated Press 
Charles Barkley will start his new job as TV analyst Tuesday, even though he still wants to return to his old job before the end of the season. 
Barkley has been hired by Turner Sports to work as a studio analyst on NBA broad­casts. He will make his debut Tuesday night, then will work only occasionally the rest of this season before picking up a greater workload in the next two seasons. 
Barkley still hopes to return from a serious knee injury to play one more game for the Houston Rockets, their season finale against Vancouver on April 19. 
"My objective is to play in the last game of the year," Barkley said Monday on a conference call to announce his hiring. "I want my last recollection of basketball to be a positive one, and I want to walk off the court under my own strength in my last game." 
Barkley ruptured a knee tendon Dec. 8 in a game at Philadelphia, an injury that was expected to keep his out for the rest of the season and end his career. 
But Barkley said his reha­bilitation is going so well that he is looking forward to play­ing one more time. He said his knee remains four to six weeks away from being strong enough to play on. 

"It bothers me that I'm not going to be playing basketball anymore. There's no substi­tute for that," he said. "If I hadn't gotten hurt in Philadelphia, I was going tu play next year because I was so mad I got hurt." 
Barkley, a 16-year NBA vet­eran, said he chose the job at Turner Sports over a similar job at NBC Sports because he felt Turner wanted him more. 
Turner televises NBA games on the cable networks TBS and TNT. 
Barkley's deal runs for two seasons after this one, coin­ciding with the length of Turner's broadcasting con­tract with the NBA. 
Barkley also will be avail­able to provide his own humorous brand of contribu­tions to Turner's other sports broadcasts, including the 2001 Goodwill Games. Atlanta Braves baseball. NASCAH races, professional golf and tennis. 
The network is still not cer­tain exactly what role Barkley might have outside of NBA telecasts, Turner Sports pres­ident Mark Lazarus said. 
On NBA broadcasts, Barkley promised to bring his own unique blend of charisma, humor and insight without being overly negative. 

Topping Pizza 
every tuesday 
271-0300 
Call today and 11 am-2am sun-thurs mention this ad!! 11am-lam fri-sat 
BASEBALL 

Irish post 2-1 record at Hormel Foods Classic 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Spom Writer 
Playing in its second tourna­ment of the season. the Irish baseball team improved its season rcr.ord to 4-2 as it won two of three games at last Wfc'ek­e n d ' s 
llorrnf'l F o o d s C.lassic at t h e Metrodome in Minn­e a po Ii s. Minn. 
On Sunday, Notre Dame defealed a Georgia team that came into the tournanrnnt undel'eatf1d before falling to Minnesota on Fridav. Notre Dame was led by junfor right­hander Aaron Heilman, who finished with a career-high 12 strikeouts while only allowing one unearned run in eight innings. 
"lllcilman] was basically the story of that last game,.. head coach Paul Mainieri said. "lie totally dominated that game and we scratched for enough runs to be able to win." 
The Irish went up 3-1 on a double by junior shortstop Alec Porzel before adding three insurance runs in the seventh. Those runs proved essential as the Bulldogs ral­lied to score three runs in the ninth off sophomore pitcher Drew Duff. Closer John Corbin came in to record the final out, earning his 10th career save. 
On Saturday, the Irish lost an up and down game to a surprising \finnesota team. After Minnesota scored five runs off freshman pitcher J.P Gagne in the first three innings, Notre Dame rallied to take a 7-6 lead before finally falling 9-7. 
"I can imagine what a 


thrilling experiencP-that must have been for the boy," said Mainir.ri of Minnesota native Gagne. ··Even though he gave up five runs and most people would say he wasn't st1ccP.ss­ful, I still think he showed a lot of poise out thflrn. I saw potential for thf' future, I'm not giving up on him." 
Sophomore Steve Stanley wPnt 2-f'or-3 with two walks und three stolen bases in Lhe Minnesota game, adding to an impressive weekend that earned him all-tournament team honors. 
"I had a good weekend. I just did whatever I could to help Urn trmm win the games." Stanley sai<l. "For me that's .i ust to try to ~et on basr, and producr, runs, let guys drive me in." 
Adding injury to insult, the team lost sPnior captain Jeff Perconte during the Minnesota game. Diving hard for a groundball on the turf, the second baseman injured his shoulder and his status for this weekend's games is unde­terminr,d. 
In thP opening game of the tournament. Notre Dame received its second consecu­tive dominating performance by senior right-hander Scott Cavey. Cavey allowed two runs on four hits in six innings in defeating No. 24 Wake Forest, 8-5. 
"The story of that game was Scott Cavey." Mainieri said. "Wake Forest has one of the top teams in the country, win­ning back-to-back ACC cham­pionships. and for Scott to go out then~ and pitch that, well. is just fantastic." 
Stanley and fellow sopho­more third baseman Andrew Bushey each had three hits to lead a 16-hit attack against the Deamon Deacons. 
Notre Dame hosts Manchester College today at 
4:30 p.m. at Eck Stadium, with sophomore Matt Buchmeier as 

2000 
The Bookstore Basketball 
e-mail address is 
BKSTR. 1@nd.edu 
Sorry for the misprint 

Sign-up TODAYI 
There is NO reason not to n1av 
Please recycle The Observer. 


Oelf~~11f Tiu fl:d_ut Pizza.I (;l@G)~ ~ul@ © . ©©r!! '1rn@~~®~HH  
Anytime Anytime you call betweenyou call between ,,~, 5:30 & 7:00, 10:30-12:59 9 9 the price of your the price of your I 2 large 1 large 1 topping topping pizzas pizza is the time you call.is the time you call. * Plus tax* Plus tax  
r ---IuncilSpecial ---7 : Small 1 Topping 1 ND store I 2 Cans of Coca-Cola product I Saint Mary's/L_____!_5.:.99 _____ J North Village Mall 271-1177 271.-PAPA  

Tuesday, March 7, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TOM KEELEY 
JEFF BEAM
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD

FOURTH AND INCHES 
X C..11.N'T e,alE\IE '(ou !6"REEN c.001<11:S lr\J..\l'EN,-(..~EC:.~E.D '(01,1~ ._TRIUC::!> Ok'( I~ W 
Ml'.\! • .SINl'..E. 't'OV C.OT ~E(E k. Ellfl'm\1"16 IS 
Fox TROT 
zzz... zzz... 
ooo, MS. ToM8 HEE HE£, RAIOE~, WHAT SToPm MICE 8tTM-'PS YOU'RE YOU HAVE. TICl<LING Ml ROM! 
~ 
; 
em,w~.bvllrMnilPraS""'1clll 
WHAP! 

BJLLAMEND 
l WANT To 
SoRRY. k:NOW WHAT l HAVE &£N1US DECIDED VIVID To LET 
DREAMS. COMPUTE.RS 
S\.EEP.
7 , 
One of the main reasons why administration, alumni, and students don't see eye-to-eye. 
beam.1@nd.edu 
HOROSCOPE 
TUESDAY, MARCH 7, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON nus 
DAY: Willard Scott, Tammy Faye 
Bakker, Daniel J. Travanti, Taylor 
Dane, John Heard 
Happy Birthday: You will experi­
ence a lot if you travel or get into an 
educational program this year. You 
will want to expand vour horizons 
and not be content with what you've 
had in the past. You will come to 
terms with who you are and what 
you want. It's time to live for today, 
not for the past. Your numbers: 14, 
23, 25, 34, 37, 39 
ARIES (March 2l•April 19): You 
mustn't rely on others when it comes 
to paying the bills or helping you 
complete a job. You may feel tired 
and run-down after a hard day's 
work. Plan to get some rest. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Drastic measures will not work in 
your favor. You must not make hasty 
decisions that will end up costing 
you emotionally. Spend time improv­
ing your image. 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Look into your rights and your legal docu­ments. Find out exactly wfiere you stand. If an employer is harassing you, don't be afraid to go over his or herhead.00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Dras­tic changes regarding your position in an organization may be upsetting. You mustn't get involved in any deals that appear to be underhanded. 
00000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Unpleas­ant situations will evolve on the home front if you have been spending too much time at work or simply neglect­mg your domestic responsibilities. 
000 
EUGENIA LAST 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can teach youngsters a valuable lesson if you have taken the time to win their trust. You may find that a course you signed up for is talcing too much time, but you must persevere. 
000 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Hasty 
decisions leading to the signing of 
contracts will be a dead end or result 
in loss. Work on your home, or make 
the changes necessary to please your 
loved ones. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You 
may find yourself getting angry over 
trivial matters. Try not to put the 
blame on others. Keep your thoughts 
to yourself and put your efforts into 
correcting mistakes. 00000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21): Problems at work maybe alarm­
ing. Not everyone you work with 
will be trustworthy. Keep circum­
stances to yourself until you're com­
pletely sure. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
You can get to the bottom of a prob­
lem concerning children if you take 
the time to talk things over. You 
should try to finish up some of those 
creative projects that you have left 
dangling. 0000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Be prepared for any opposition that you encounter. Family members may not be happy with the amount of hours you nave been spending at work. 
000 

PISCES (Feb. 19-Much 20): You may be a little absentminded when it comes to transportation or keeping appointments. Be sure to write down everything that's important. 000 
Birthday Baby: You are charming, sensitive and intuitive. Your ability to know what will help any given situation will put you in a good position throughout your life. Your creative abilities must be developed. 
{Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at aslroadvice.com eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) ' 01000 Uruversa! PressSyndioite 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS  38  
1  _Major  
s Dayan of Israel  43  
10  Velvet drape  
14  Je ne _  quoi  44  
1s Consumed  45  
1e Vocal solo  46  
11  Roe  47  
1a  Not level  
1e News bit  so  
20  Mediocre  52  
23  Ripken of the  
Orioles  53  
24  Dehydrated  ss  
25  Actress Dawber  se  
211 Congressional  
meeting place  s1  
32  Steeped  
beverage  84  
33  Maria  
3,4  Kind of rug  
35  Common auto  85  
option  88  
37  More refined  

Thunder 
preceder Troubadours' 
instruments 
Female rabbit Western brush WNWs reverse Circulars, 
basically Blowhard's talk Koppel of 
"Nightline• Sudden jolt Jima 
It may be called for in a recipe Katharina, to 
Petruchio Kentucky 
college, or its town Bishop of Rome Object of 
devotion 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Q U  I  Z M A S T E R  L S  
U N S  I N K A B  L E  A H  
EDITORIALS  Tl  
B E N S  
E R G  
c p  L U s  
O L  

1 A _,.':":"t-=-r:::-r.:-t 
e1 Change ee Canal with a 
mule, in song es Kind of stand 10 Curls up with a 
book 11 Shuffleboard locale, maybe 
DOWN 
1 Computer operator 2 Pasta sauce brand 3 Omen 
4 Person who's not yet a full partner 
s Common potluck dish a Solemn promise 1 Pigpens 
a Biker's 
protection 9 Whole 10 Jack and Jill's vessel 11 Camey of "The Honeymooners" 12 Prevaricate 31 "_Abner" 13 Onthe_ 36 Clear (of) (fleeing) 38 Like a drain 21 Dieter's 
after a drain concern 
cleaner 22 Vaulted 40 City of southern 25 Persona non 
Honshu 
grata 41 Old salt 

..,,...,...._,,...,-t 2& Pay back 42 Chopper landing 
21 Big Wall Street spots 
news 48 Expel from law 

21 Nautical rope practice CR ~.,;.+..+...+.,..+.;,~+.-+;,,.i-;;.i ~ Stir up 49 Connive 
A L R E E P I E C E 30 Struck s1 It can be 
BE YEGLASSES repeatedly inspired 

54 1950's war site eo Stink to high heaven
se Place to pick up a sandwich 
e1 Cleverness 57 Ward {off) 
e2 Boise's state: ss Minute opening 
Abbr. 
59 Like some proportions 63 Sly one 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95~ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Yoga Tai Chi 
M, 7-8:15pm $25 M, l : 15-2: 15 $25 Tu, 12:10-12:50 $21 For Retirees 
Jit,,

W, l 2: 10-l 2:50 $21 W, 5:30:6:25 $25 Th, 7-8:15pm $25 W, 6:45-7:40 $25 
Registration for classes begins Tuesday. 3/7@ 7:30am in the RSRC. All classes begin the week of 3/20 and end the 
week of 5/7. For More tnfo. Contact:RecSports -1-6100 
www.nd.edu/-recsport 


All Challenge () U Fitness UQj Classes are 1/2 price after break! 


Play Ball 
Notre Dame plays its home opener today againsl Manchester College at Eck Stadium. The Irish are coming offa 2-1 weekend.

PORTS 
pages 22 

page 24 OBSERVER Tuesday, March 7, 2000 
WOMEN'S 81G EAST CHAMPIONSHIP 

Rutgers rallies to knock Notre DaDle out of tournaDlent 
By KERRY SMITH 
A.ssistanr Spons £ditor 
STORRS, Conn. Rutgers knows about battling back against Notre Dame. 
When tbe two t!mms met in the regular season, the Scarlet Knights dug themselves a 19-point hole and fought back to ga.in the lead, only to lose iu over­
Big East 
time. But this time it was differ­Tournament ent. Rutgers 81 
With the Irish up by nine 
Notre Dame 72
with four minutes left in regu­lation in Monday night's Big See Also 
East semifinal tournament 
game. it looked as though the "HUSky Fever alive No. 6 toam in the nation as UConn plays for would advance to meet Big East title" 
Connecticut in the finals. 
page 17
But the Knights had a dif­ferent idea -they thought of their recent overtime loss to the [rish on homo turf and never looked back again. With 12-straight points by the Scarlet Knights, Hutgers tipped the scales in its favor for the first time since the opening minutes of the first half with 43 seconds left in regulation. The Irish forced overtime in the final seconds. but could not defend against an explosive Rutgers' offense. losing 81-72. 
"The [regular season] loss was a heartbreak­er," said Scarlet Knights' guard Shawnetta Stewart. "It feels real good to beat them tonight. We really stuck together through the adversity on the court." 
Having worked the rust out of their game in Sunday's quarterfinal contest against the Miami Hurricanes, the Irish stepped on the court ready to play. 
But so did the Scarlet Knights. 
After trailing by a point, 25-24 at halftime, the Knights knew they needed a new weapon to dis­tance themselves from the Irish. They found it during the second half in senior guard Usha 
see WOMEN/page 17 


WOMEN'S TENNIS 

No. 15 Notre Dame routs Ohio State, Iowa 
Notre Dame started off well on 7-3. owed the recent problems in the dou­By KEVIN BERCH OU Thursday when it traveled to Ohio The Irish returned home on Saturday bles pairings. Sporrs Writer State to battle the No. 33 Buckeyes. to do battle with the No. 36 Iowa Hit hard by the wrist injury that will 
The Irish won five of six singles match­Hawkeyes. Though the venue changed, keep Guy out through April, Notre Like Tiger Woods on a Sunday back es and swept the doubles, winning 8-1. the result remained Dame has been forced to nine, the Notre Dame women's tennis Junior All-American Michelle Dasso the same. trot out doubles teams
"It was a tough week. I'm 
team charged through the weekend. led the onslaught, scoring a 6-2, 6-2 Once again the that have little to no
happy with the way we
After climbing to No. 15 in the No. 1 singles win over Ohio State's Irish won five of the experience playing national polls, the 
Kristy Dascoli. six singles matches, rallied in the end. " together. That lack of Irish women made In No. 4 singles, sophomore Nina en route to a 6-3 experience was particu­a strong gace to go Vaughan rallied for a 4-6, 6-4, 6-3 win win. larly evident against
Jay Louderback

even higher, as that clinched an Irish victory. Dasso was at her Iowa. they trounced three With junior doubles star Kimberly best, as she made women's tennis coach Notre Dame lost both ranked opponents Guy out due to a fractured wrist, quick work of her No. 1 and No. 3 doubles, in a matter of four Louderback was forced to alter his opponent with a something that would days. doubles pairings. rare 6-0, 6-0 No. 1 singles win over not likely have happened with a 
"It was a tough Freshman Katie Cunha, usually Shera Wiegler, in match that lasted a healthy Guy and three complete dou­week." said head paired with Guy, was instead part­mere 45 minutes. bles parings.
Dasso

coach Jay nered with Dasso, and together they "She's played tremendously of late," "I think we')] get better with more Louderback. "J'm notched an easy 8-5 No.1 doubles win. Louderback said. "She has improved, practice time," Louderback said. "It's happy with the way wo rallied in the The win put Notre Dame's season it seems, with every match." end." record at 9-4, while Ohio State fell to Strong singles play has overshad­
see TENNIS/page 21 
• 
Baseball 

CCHA Q_uarrerfinals at BYU vs. Manchester College ~-, 
at No. 8 Illinois 
(I") 
Thursday, 3 p.m. vs. Ferris Scace Saturday, 3 p.m. 
SPORTS Today, 4:30 p.m. ~ -~ .:::::"')
Friday-Sunday, TBA ATA at Big East Tournament Track Swimming at Denver vs. Rutgers at New York at NCAA Championships at NCAA Zone Diving Saturday, 1 p.m. 

Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. 

GLANCE tFriday-Saturday, 3 p.m. Friday-Saturday, TBA 





