
~ 
j 
1 
Inappropriate protest?
'Rules' unengaging 
The Progressive Students Alliance has been put 
Even Tommy Lee Jones can't save the poorly 

Thursday l 
on probation for distributing leaflets outside of
written "Rules ofLngagement" according to 
JPW Wass -an unregistered demonstration. 
movie critic Mike ,"vlc."v/orrow. 
APRIL 13, 
News . page 3
Scene . page 14 
2000 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint A1ary ~" 
VOLXXXIII N0.121 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Campus, local community 'take back the night' 

• Group marches to sites where sexual assults have occurred 
By ALYSSA SCHMITT Kcws Writer 
The streets of' Notre Dame anrl Saint Mary's erhoed with the sounds of drumming and drnnting as 50 members of South Brmd and campus com­m unities marched in "Take Back Thn Night." 
The students. faculty and community members ,v"alked together holding candles in support of victims of domestic violemcc and sexual assault. 
"Today we ask the gracP to shout." 
With th1. sc words. the marcli began in front of Le Mans Hall. The group chose its path wise­ly, stopping at specific locations where acts of \'iolence have occurred. At Pach sight marchers prayed and lit. can­dl<~s. Often tnars ov<1r1lowPd. 
"It was an amazingly pmVPr­ful and uniting cx1wricn('c," said Jami '\/pwcomb, a junior at Saint Mary's. Unity was th<' themrn as the group marclwd down Saint :Vlary's Hom!, lwttPr known as "Rape Hoar!." Tim chants grPW Ioudnr and the· energy was at its peak as thPy marrlrnd to the Crotto. 
"The enthusiasm of tlw group was amazing," said CatlwrinP Pittman. a profossor at Saint l\,lary's. "This is a very personal experiencn; you nPver know how people an• going to rnaC't pPrsonally." 
The group assPmblr-d for its last prayPr at tlw stPps of tlw Dome beforn marrhing bark to Saint :\Iary's. Tlw PVP11i11g con­cl udecl \Vith a poPtry reading and drum snssion focussing on unity and nmpowcrnwnt. 
"It was a protest against rape• 
see MARCH/page 4 

OUTreachND denied official recognition 
ByTIM LOGAN 
N<..·w.~ Writer 
Wlwn OUTn!achND applied for official club status 
l'rom tlw Uniwrsity in March. many people predict­
Pd that application would be rejected. 
This WPPk. those p1·pdictions came true. 
In a h\ttPr datPcl April 7, .loe Cassidy. director of 
Stuc!Pnt Activitic!s, told OLJTn,ach's former ro-prnsi­
dPnl<; that lw was denying their bid for rPcognition, 
saying tllf' Lniversity preforrod to serve homosexual 
students through its own groups. not a student-run 
organization. 
"It is through programs and servicps offerPcl by 
crnmnitt1!d professionals and ministers that we wish 
to work with gay and lesbian students at l'\otre 
nanw," Cassidv wrote•. 
But OUTreach loaders say the community-building 
nature of a st.udn11t group can not bn matched by 
oflicial \"nirnrsity programs. 
"What WI' can do that they're not addressing is we 
crPatc a community for gay and lesbian students. 
and Uw !Standing Committ(•<•, 011 Gu,y and Lesbian 
Student Needs I isn't going to do that," said 
OUTn·ach co-presidmt Molly Morin. 
OUTreach lcad()rs have also said that Notre 
Dame's programs for homos('Xtrnls noerlod improw­
nwnt. 
Wlwn tho group applied for recognition, outgoing 
rn-presidcnl .krcmy Bauer said many members folt 
Urn University's e!Torts -which include the Standing 
CommittPe and programs by Campus Ministry. the 
University Counsrling Center and the Office of 
Student Affairs -w,irr not sulliciPnt. 
New co-prnsidcnt Dave Wyncott said Cassidy's 
dncision did not ease that problem. 
see DENIED/page 4 



Mendozas visit Notre Dame 
. University's largest donors tour business college recently named in their honor 
By ERIN LaRUFFA Assistant News Editor 
The strong American economy \Viii now help Notre Dame students beyond increasing their post-gradu­ationjob prospects. 
Notre Dame graduate Tom Mendoza. '73, and his wife Kathy recently donated $35 million to the newly renamed l\lendoza College of Business. The couple, who visitrd the University this wePk, was able to donate such a large amount of money in part due to the booming stock marknt. 
"In the past year, our stock has done speGtacularly well," Mr. Mendoza said, referring to the stock of Network Appliance (NetApp). a Silcon Valley-based business of which he is senior vice prnsident of sales and marketing. 
Mr. Mendoza said he contacted the Lnivcrsitv to ask what he could do to make an impact on thr most people. Executive Vice President of ~otre Dame rather William Beauchamp and Sean Farrell, a rep­resentative from the Alumni Association on the West Coast, visit-eel Mr. Mendoza in California to dis­cuss the donation. 


He told Farrell and Beauchamp to find a way for him to make a "signif­icant impact" at Notre Dame. but instructed the two not to worry about the actual dollar amount, '.'vl.r. Mendoza said. 
"It had to be something my wife and I wanted to do," he said, noting that a college's endowment is very important because the school invests the money and then spends the earnings of the investments. 
"Torn wanted to do something truly significant, and I think this is pretty significant," Mrs. Mendoza said. In the past. the couple had donated money for scholarships in the name ofMr. Mendoza's father. 
"I respect greatly what the University represents in general," he said. "l help tlwm compete. The busi1wss school world is very competitive•." 
The College will soon be renamed the \1endoza College of Business. Both Woo and Mr. Mf'ndoza explained that many business schools, such as the Univnrsitv of Pennsylvania's Wharton School,·am named after the people who provid­ed their endowments. 
The Mendozas. with their perspec­tive as executives at a Web-based business, will also have an advisory role at the College. Forty percent of NetApp's business is done on the Internet. 
The Mendozas have ,vorked for several start-up companies. all of which been successful enough tu go public. 
"I think we can help [with e-busi­
nessl. V\'P 
are part of 

feel glad to be able to "J respect greatly what that world," do this for Notre M r
the Uniueristy represents
Dame." Mendoza
in general. I feel glad tn
He was comfortable said. with endowing the be able to do this fnr T h 11 College of Business in College has
Notre Dame. " 
part because of the also asked leadership of Dean M r Carolyn Woo, Mr. Tom Mendoza Mendoza to Mendnza said. Ile is University donor give period­confident that the ic lectures. College's administra-sonrnthing tion will continue to improve the he already does at Stanford schoul. University. 
Mendoza hopes his endowment Mrs. Mendoza. who is Nl'tApp's will allow the College to expand into senior director of worldwiclo strate­areas it would not have otherwisn gic alliances, will now serve on the boen able to explore. CollPge's advisory council. 
"I don't want any control [over tho Mrs. Mendoza, who attended the College] ... All l"m trying to do is give University of Oklahoma, began her them resources to make the right career as a journalist. Executives decisions," he said. "We're just happy to give them the money to 
see MENDOZA/p~ge 6 

The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, April 13, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 
No tnore excuses 
Too often in our society, we arn faced with peoplt• ,vho rel'usn to accept the consequences for thPi1· own actions, people who hav<' an cxcuS!' for evnrything. Examples range from the smalhist children all the way up to the 
Presidc•nt of Llw  Unit.I'd  
Statns. No.  Mr. J>rcsirlent.  Pat Peters  
fl was  not  a  "vast right  
wing conspiracy".  You  
chosP  to  mess  around  
with "that woman.  Miss  Ad A·fanager  
Lewinsky,"  f'aci>  tbe  
music.  

Our sorinty has changed over the v1•ars. In tlw 18th ccnturv. our first prnsirfont ,,·as known bPcause he had o,vnpd up to his parents when he chopped down tlieir dwrrv trcP. EVt!n morn recent. when a stud('nt w11s disciplined at school. "he got it \VIHSP at home." Today, however, parents rush to their .:hildrcn's defense. Instead of encouragin;.; discipline, thPy makl~ excuses. That is the hardest aspect of any teacher or administrator's job, the lack of support from the par('nts. The most public example rn.me in Chicago rec!'ntly when thousands of people rallied bPhinrl JPSS<' Jackson and others who Wl\rE' protesLing the Pxpulsion of several stu­dents who caused a major disruption at a football ganrn and threatened the safety of hundreds of people around them. What hap­pened to accountability'.' 
There is constant talk about abortion. A couple of weeks ago, someone wrote in this space that the Catholic church was wrong for condemning abortion because a young girl would turn out much better in life ii' she did not have tlrn worries of raising a child. While this ma,· be well and true. whv didn't thr; young girl think of tbis before sh·P dedded to engage in snxual intercuurse'? There are countless methods of birth control availabll1 to men and women alike. Although an unplanned pregnancy is tragic, abortion should never be used as a method of "conve­nieme" -to escape responsibility. 
Everyone wants an escape and excuse ­some way to get out of their responsibility. It is men who humble themselves and !'ace th(' music for tlwir actions that are indeed honor­ablP and worthy of respect. The most promi­nP tH example is Senator Teel Kennedy of Massachusetts. Here is a man who was involved in a scandal, vet has overcome the negative publicity and.become possibly tlrn greatest legislator of our time. He has devot­ed his life to taking care of the weak and the underprivileged. He is a great man, and great politician. President Clinton has tried to do much of the same. he has finally owned up to his faults (although l admit reluctantly) and don0, a tremendous job of running our country into the longest stretch of peace time prosperity in our nation's history. 
Lifo is not easv. \Ve all make mistakes from time to time and havr. our faults and misgiv­ings. That is only natural. Thr, best thing that w1.• can do, howPver. is own up to them and move on. Don't make excuses; accept the con­sequences. 
The 1•ieu·s expressed in the Inside Column ar(' thosP <~f lhf' outhnr and not nf'cessarily Ihose of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Erin Pirou(ek  Mau Nania  
Kelly Hager  Graphics  
Cmmnev Boyle  Jose Crueliar  
Sports  Production  
Tim Casey  Rachel Protzman  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Parrick Kelly  Joe Stark  

·1 he Ob,erv<r (USI'~ '>99 2-4000) i, puhli,hcd Monda,· through rriday t"Xffllf du ring: LX,1111 and \',Karion period!\,. The Ob~crver i, a me.-111her of the: A,,o,:1.n1.•d Prc,s. All reproduction right., are re\C'rn:c.L 

THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 
Thursday Friday 
. 
Event: Voting . Performance: "Summer Hegistration: 7-9 p.m.; and Smoke;" 8 p.m.; LaFortune Moreau Litth~ Theater, 

. 
Performance: "The Love Saint Mary's of' the Nightengale;" 7:30 . Event: Folk Oancing; p.111.; Washington llall 7:30 p.m.; Clubhouse, 

. 
Event: Accoustic Cafe: Saint Mary's 



f) p.m., LaFortune 
Saturday 

. Event: "ComedySportz," sponsored by FlipSide, admission $3; 8 p.m.; LaFortune Ballroom . Conference: "Alternativ<-1 Conceptions of Justice;'' All day; lleslmrgh Center 
USCCR criticizes affimative action at UTexas 
AUSTIN, Texas 
The U.S. Commission on Civil Rights fired a barragP of' criticism Tuesday against states, including Tr-xas, that automatically admit a percentage or high school gradu­ates to public universities as an alternative to afiirmative action. In a statement. the USCCR statml that percentage plans arc a "public relations strategy" rather than an effective means of increasing minority enrollment, and called for a Supreme Court decision making allirmative action an imperative. "The pt\rcentage plans arc experi­mental responses to the attacks on aflirmative action," the USCCH statement said. "But thev am no substitutP for strong race-conscious afiirmati~e action in higher education." After the 1996 Hopwood decision was inter­preted to exclude race-based considerations in admis­sions, the Texas Legislature enacted the "10 percent plan," which allows tlw top 10 percent of graduates to be admitted to a Texas public university. Similar plans arc in place in Florida and California, with Florida admitting the top 20 percent and California tlrn top 4 percent. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWemher"' forecast fur daytime wnditinns and hirh temperatures 
H  L  
Thursday  b58 49  
Friday  ~  68  51  
Saturday  ~  71  53  
Sunday  ~  70  50  
Mon~a.Y  ~  66  46  
5.: ,.......,~ ~ ..  /''  ,.  

q,Q.~q~Q ~ ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Rurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Sunday 
. Concert: "Notre Dame• Jazz Band;" 3p.m.; Band Building 
. Conference: "Alternative Conceptions of Justice;" All day; llesburgh 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

UC-Berkeley professor proves cancer theory 
BEBKELEY, Calif. 
Despite tlrn widespread belief that mutations cause cancer, UC-Berkelev professor Peter Duesberg has pt1t forth evidence that changes in chro­mosome number are the true cause of the disPas<'. 
Ninety p1ircent of cancers are "solid cancers." which ani whole clonal lumps <:enlen;d in one location. Of those, Duesberg said nono has ever IJc,en found to have the corn~ct chro­mosome number, 46. Some have bePn shown to have almost twice as many chromosonrns than are present in normal cells. 
The widely held view is that cancers occur as the result of a series of muta­tions, which eventually lead to uncon­trolled cell grovvth. 
"The kev here is that WP alwavs think ab<ll;t DNA and genl\S, but we never think on the wholP chromosome 


Aneuploidy occurs wlrnn the chro­mosomes within a cell do not divid!' evenly. leaving one cell with an extra chromosome and anotlrnr cell dPl'i­ci<mt in one chromosomn. The condi­tion of anr.uploidy has bnen rcportml in every documnntP.Cl caso of' solid 
cancers, including breast cancers, lung cancers and liver cancers. 
"If you look at these cancers. all arl' aneuploid." Duesberg said. "I am not aware of an example sine<' the devel­opment of' chromosonw analysis of a diploid cancnr. The corrdation is vir­tuallv nxact." 
011e molecular and cell biology pro­fessor said that although Dueslwrg's theory does not offer a replacnnrnnt for tlw mutation theorv, thP two occurrences could work togethPr in the cancer-causing process. 
"These arn not alternativn theories," said Steve Martin, who studiPs cell biology and tumor virology. {Dtwsberg) argues that aneuploidy is tlw sole caus<' of cancer. It could vnr\' well be the casP that it is onn of th;, factors that contribut<'s to tumors, but I certainly do not think that it is the sole caus<'." 
Reports reveal salary increase 
CIIAHLOTTESV!LLE. Va. 

American collegiate• fal'ulty membPrs' salaries increased by 3. 7 percent this year. according to the American Association of University ProfPssors· annual salary report. Tlrn AAUI' reported that tlw average salarv of' a full-time l'acultv m<'mbPr rosP f'rom $56,282 last year to $58,:~52 this yt;ar. Tlw report round full-tim<' professors earn an average of $76,197 nationwidP. Tlw average full-time University professor's salary is $101,179, a 4.78 (JPl"c<'nt increase from last year. Twenty-eight other schools have an averagi1 profossor salary of over $100,000. Last vear, onlv 19 schools had an average profossor salary o~er $10fi.ooo. Tlw rnport found the average salary of all ranks of professors and instructors at the University or Virginia is $78,012, up by about $3,000 from last vear. The survcv omits nwdical school professors bncai.1so their pay is usually 111 uch higher than othrr faculty members· salaries. l'rofPssor Hobert O'Connell said although $101.179 sPems high, the AAUl''s practirn of lumping all proli•ssors -gradu­ate and undergradual<' -into thP sanrn catPgory inflates the ovPrall numlwrs. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

""'r"'r .&...&. ........... 

©.I 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Prenure: 
® © 

HI h Low 
Clou 


Atlanta  60  42  Las Vegas  84  60  Portland  50  50  
Baltimore  56  39  Memphis  66  55  Sacramento  68  50  
Boston  50  35  Milwaukee  58  49  St. Louis  71  59  
Chicago  64  51  New York  51  40  Tampa  81  66  
Houston  75  57  Philadelphia  55  39  Wash DC  57  41  

Thursday, April 13, 2000 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

By LIZ LANG 
Nnvs \X.'rircr 
l.atP in .lanuarv. St. John the Baptist lil1:me;1tary School approaclwcl Hobnrt Sedlack's graphic design class and his spni:ial studios graphit:s lfosign class with the task of' !wiping a struggling fin1' arts program. 
St. John's belinves that "the arts play an instrumental role in thn creative processing and prob!l'm solving skills of dnvnl­oping minds." according to thPir request f'or assistann1. T!w school. hownvcr, dors not havP thP f'unding to propPr!y achiPVP llwir goa! alm11'. 
SPdlark. an '89 grad11alP of the Noll"(' l)arne graphic dnsign prngra 111, and tlrn Aight graphic design majors gladly offcn,d to hnlp the school. 
On Marrh :11, the Notre Damn graphic cksigncrs first \Wilt to tlw school to introduce tlw projects to llw fifth through Pightli graders who would soon bcromP Llwir stud1mts. Pairs of Notr<• llanw stuclPnts outlined dPsign projct:ls for Pach class at St. John's. 1\l'tnr tlw f'irst WPPk, studr,nts W<'rl! s1mt honw bv tlwir nPw Notrn Dam() t1;adwrs to find picturns and magazinPs to create their pi(ic!'S. Projects ranged from CD covPrs to commemorativn picturP franws depending on I he agn of tlH' young students. 
According to Chana Jay,ne, 11nP of' the 1•ight soniors involved in tlrn collaboration, "ach pair of Notrn Dame stu-
Student Activities puts PSA on probation 
dents created projects that allow1~d the St. John's students to expand their creative think­ing while also teaching them about the skills that are involved in graphic dnsign. 
The design students returned 
Through the program the students are ahle to see graph­ic design not only as art, but also as a tool for communica­tion. Already at their young ages. the St. John's students are target consumers through 
April 7 to lead the class and such Hems as textbooks and CD 

policy, "We didn't think it would 
be held.
share their graphic dnsign packaging. With this program, 

including be too big a deal. We R y a n
knowledge in a hands-on set­the graphic design students 

a minor Willerton,
were just passing out
ting. were educating the kids as to 

transgres­student
"The volunt1rnring service not what exactly graphic design is 

s i o n , leajlets." development
onlv benefited the St. John's and expanding on the defini­

C O U I d coordinator,
students but also tho Notre tion of art. Design projects 

result in told Kreider
Aaron Kreider
Danrn students, giving us the were meant to make the stu­

the PSA the Mass
PSA member
chance to Axplore graphic dents realize design is a com-
losing its 
design and teach it to younge~: ''The volunteering service 
studnnts. 
· not only benefited the St. 
said Jayme. 
Sndlack John's students but also bnlinvPs the Notre Dame students, 
that thn 
giving us the chance to 
goals oft.he 
program as explore graphic design 
outlined by and teach it to youngerboth Notrn 
students."
Dame and St. .John's \\' o. r e Chana Jayme achievPd. 
senior 
Notre Dame studf~nts 
SENIORS SENIORS! !! ! 

WANT TO THANK YOUR PARENTS OR GUARDIAN FOR PROVIDING YOU WITH 4 YEARS OF NOTRE DAME EDUCATION? WHY NOT GIVE THEM A SMALL GIFT TO SHOW THEM YOUR APPRECIATION? 

$40 per plaque when bought at COBA booth Thurs. 4/13 & Mon. 4/17 from 10-2 
$40 when bought with senior tickets in ND room o1 LaFun, Fri. 4/14 10-2 
$45 when bought through website or order form on flyer 

BROUGHT TO YOU BY THE SENIOR CLASS COUNCIL AND ND MANAGEMENT CLUB 
I 
I 
I 
I 

book, requires that all demonstrations be n,gisterccl in writing with the vice presi­dent for Hesidenw Lil'c. PSA leaders admit that, while they have registered demonstra­tions in the past, they neglected to do so this time. 
"We didn ·t think it would be too big a deal," Kreider said. "We were just passing out leaflets." 
Leaf1eting is not specifically mentioned in du Lac, which only discusses "demonstra­tions," but Cassidv said demonstrations are Jefinecl as an event in which a group ls "trying to draw attention to a cause." 
The PSA has passed out leaflets in the past without reprisal, according to Kreider. But in this case, the PSA broughl this demonstra­
tion  to  the  attention  of  
Student  Activities  when  
Kreider  asked  the  office  
where  the  
Mass would  

ByTIM LOGAN News Writer 
One of l'\otre Dame's loud­est voices for change, the Progressive Student Alliance {PSA), may be quieter for the next eight 
months after the Office of Student Activities placed the group on probation for hold­

ing an Cassidyunregis­tered demonstration. The probation, announced friday in a letter from Joe Cassidy, director of Student Activities, to PSA president Joe Smith, will extend through the fall semester. During that time, any viola­tion of University 
wen, able to reach out to the Notre Dame is able to reach 
group decided to stop distrib­
community and give some of out to the surrounding commu­
uting leaflets, according to
what they have learmid back nity and help fine arts pro­
Smith and Aaron Kreider, a
through tAaching. The students grams that are struggling 
PSA member who organized 
were able to make an impact financially. The eight snniors 
the protest. 
on youngAr studAnts. Sedlack that volunteered their Friday 
Cassidy met with Kreider,
stresses that the ages from fifth mornings may be leaving Notre 
and later with Smith. to dis­
tD fiighth gradA are im11ortant Dame soon, but thev are leav­
cuss the incidenL Cassidy
because the students them­ing their knowledge bP.hind 
also met with the pair and
selves are beginning to under­with a younger generation of 
PSA faculty advisor Ed
stand advArtising and to somr1 possible graphic designers 
l\Ianicr before determining
extent commArcialism. from the community. 
their sanction. 

-----------1 L:1.c, the student hand­
mon and 
official
essential cle­
University
ment in the 
recognition. Leaders said 
world around 
Tuesday they will be careful
them. 
to avoid that penalty.
This was the 
The violation occurred on
pilot project 
Feb. 19 outside the Junior
with St. John 
Pare.nts' WeekE'nd l\1ass when
the Baptist 
four PSA members were dis­
School but 
tributing flyers that called for
Sedlack and 
the University to take a 
the designers 
stronger stand against sweat­
hope that this 
shop labor. Thfl group did not 
program will 
register the leafleting with
continue. 
the 0ffit:e of Residence Life 
Through this 
and was asked to disperse by
project and 
Cassidv. 
others like it, 
After initially resisting, the 
nu 
location. and reminded him of the 

registration requirement in an email. When the PS/\ did not register. Cassidy argued, the club "knowingly and pur­posely violated University pol­icy." 
"It was kind of tough on 
this one," he  said.  "They  
knew it up front."  
The PSA will file  an  appeal  

with Father Mark Poorman, vice president for Student. Affairs, according to Kreider. 
If their appeal is dtrnind, thu group's leaders say, tlrny will exercise caution in the com­ing months. 
"It will definitely affect what the club does. We'll be vP-ry careful not to get anoth­c r violation." Smith said. "We'II be more conscrvativn than usual, which is against us being a liberal club." 
No group on probation has been stripped of its club sta­tus since at least the rnid­'80s, Cassidy said. 
The PSA was granted offi­cial University club status in August 1998, but had existed for much of the previous semester as an unrecognized group. University-app.roved clubs have access to the Club Resource Center, pPrmission to meet on campus and are eligible fur funding frum Student Activities funding. The PSA did not receive any University funds this year, Smith said. 

1 
.I 

page 4 The Obserl'er . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 15, 2000 
Cerneka describes 
life of Brazil's poor 
By TESSIE HO\X'L-\ND New:-\X'riter 
The current rate of unem­ployment in Brazil is com­parnblo to lhat in the United States during the Grnat Depression, said Saint \.1ary's alumna lleidi Cern1•ka, \\ho spok1: Wednesday about her min­istry work with thf~ street ,,·m11Pn of Brazil. Cerneka ministers to pour wunwn of Urn street and thHir children in Sao Paulo. 
"VVomen don't want to 1livP on t h e 
power is what gave nw tlw courage to fight," she said. 
Curneka said that gender roles. power and economics need to be addrnssed to spark change. 
"Street kids havn very sp1~eifir, gPnder rol1:s.'" Cerneka said. "Boys am morn likelv to steal. Stroet girls arf' n{ore vulirnrable ... I keep thinking the next gent•ration is doomed if they don't get education. That's where we affect things. These ,vomen didn't get past fourth grade education. but their kids might." 
Ccr111.1ka 
discussed 
street I. "Women don't want to many top­but thPre ics beyond
live on the street, but
aren't any power an<l 
altf'rna·­there aren't gnnd1•r 
Denied 
continued from page 1 

"I think that. it skirts around the issue ol' wlrnthnr we as a University am mPcting the needs of gay and !1\sbian stu­dents," he said. 
Cassidy met with OUTr1iach leaders during the lirst week of' i\pril to discuss Notre !Jame's servkPs for homos(•xuals. In his letter, he encouraged the group to bring furthM cnncnrns to the Standing Committee, which was formed in l1)9(, to improve the conditions for gay and les­bian studenb. 
'Tm rnally pleas<'d with the nfl'orl and what l'vn S('tm from the University in tho last l1vn yPars." Cassidy said. 
Wyncott also said that the denial ol' club status for OUTn•ach does not help to bring gay and lesbian students closer to tlrn University commu­nity. 
"By not recognizing us, they color us as somfihow 'other,' 
March 

continued from page 1 
and violPnco," said He1we Donovan. a Saint Mary's fn1shman. "A joining of 
women as well as  men  to  be  
tho  voice  of  wonrnn  as  a  
whole."  

"Take Back the Night" is a nationwidn statement in sup­port of' survi\'ors of viti!(• IIC('. Tlw program has mad1i it.s voice heard for ov1lr 25 vnars. 
Caihorinr. Pittman ha·s hr.on involvnd in the program at Saint Marv's and Notni Dame f'or !'our y1;ars. 
"Thorn is a cornmitnwnt to making this an annual PVPnt,"· sho said. 
Tlrn program is sponsornd by Tho Feminist Collective, Stlx omrncBS Services (S.O.S) and the Saint Marv's and Notre Dame Campus ·Alliance for llape Elimination (C.A.H.E.). 
.Julio Frischcorn, a Saint Mary's junior, organized this 
year's march. Sim began this projHct nver a month ago and attributfis its succoss to tlrn amount of publicity it has rncoivnd. 
"I am rrrnlly imprnss('d wit.h tlw turnout," slw said. "It has ber.n so much fun." 
.Judi Larson, a nwrnber ol' 
S.O.S was also an activn mem­ber in thn organization of this year's march, was pkas!'d with Urn event's succoss and expn1ssed optimism about wum1!n's programs at both Saint Mary's and Notre Danw. 
"It gayr, me a lot ol' hopn for f'utuni support of wornPn 's issues 011 both ol' tlH•sn cam­pusns" said .Jami f\1)wl:1m1b. 
Tlw goals for ynars to comn includt> a grnall'r· reeling ol' safoty on both campuses, thn 11lirnination of tlw nicknam1! 
"Hapc Road" and improved programs for wonwn. 
The timing for this yoar's "Take Back The Night" coin­cides with the rnc,1nt incrnasn in rapn awaroness on both tlw Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
C(lJll p LI Sl)S. 

still, and by coloring us as Cerncka rnadH 
t i V fl S • " any alternatives." roles. She 

"otlwr' thny say wc'rt! not nor­
Saint Mary's Collage presents Tennesee Williams' play
mal," he said.
said. "We att<rndants
Heidi Cerneka 

The decision was mad11 by tlrnm lo Saint Mary's alumna ture awarn 
r.an't tell of tlie l<ic­

Cassidy, who dctnrminns all leave tho of police 
club recognition issues. Stl'ClltS." violence, 
Wyncott and Morin said tbey Cerneka sens instances of childcare and health care. 
were considering app1ialing the discrimination against dif­"When someone like Ileidi 
decision to Father Mark ferent races and older Corncka comes, she reminds 
Poorman, vie<~ president for women constantly. Women us of things we can think of 
Student Affairs, and that thev of color find it challenging as women issues," said 
would definitely try to lear{1 to obtain a job, especially if Phyllis Kaminski, associate 
more specific rnasons why a they are older than their professor of religious stud­
student group could not be rec­
Thursday-Saturday, April 13-15, 2000 () 
ognized.
mid-20s. ies at Saint \1ary's College. 
at 8 p.m, 
S,inl Ma,y's Call•g•
"It's liko the stories vou "She shows us we can con­

This was the fourth linw a 
. MOREAU 
gay and lesbian student group
hear where [women] ~alk cretelv see how race, class, 

Sunday, April 16 at 2:30 p.m. ~EIVTER..,
in and they say 'The posi­and gender come together 

has been denind recognition. In 
, FOR THE ARTS 
tion has just been filled,"' and that women's rights am 

1986, 1992 and 1995, 
Little Theatre NorRE oAME, ,N 
said Cerneka. "They don't hum an rights." 

OUTreach's prednccssor, Gays 
fo; tici<et information contact 284 4626
and Lesbians of Notre
challenge it as racism Ccrncka plans to visit s1w­

the Saint Mary's College Box Office at • 
because they see it as true." eral other colleges across 

Dame/Saint Mary's College Cerneka uses the discrimi­the country on her four­
(GLND/SMC) applied and was nation to her advantage. week visit to the United 
rejected. 'Tm "·hitc, North States. After that, she will 

OUTreachND has between 30 
Learn.~:~~'!] Language
i\ 1111! r i(' a n a n d educa te d . return to Brazil for three 

and 40 active members, and a ThPrn handing me that more years. 
mailing list of approximately 150, according to iLs presidents. 
Study 

The langu~ SJargest 
Atria Salon 

and mosf,.po tfof rich
Atria. 
289-5080 

literature, tasc natural
friends 
1357 N. Ironwood Dr. 

beauty and internatio ortunities
~tll<t>n
d~n'tlet friends 

~odel.!!i!i :ra.eeded :f'.or Learn fast: Intensive course:
sI..o:rt ha,:i.:r c.,.ts ~ome:ra./meII. 

Fulfill the language_re<Juirement in 2 semesters
drire druni 

Qualify for Kellogg Institute internship in Brazil Contact: Department of Romance Languages 
:f'.o:r t:ra,:i.I:1..:iI:1.g cia,sses 
0 
U.S.~ol
~ 
'""'-!Ion 


J'o(itos J'izzeria Restaurant 
461~ Grape Road• Misb11waka, lN 46545 Phone: 219-243-5385 Fax: 219-243-7877 
INTERESTED IN SCI ENCE, TECHNOLOGY, RND ETHICAL QUESTIONS? 

Moral issues surrounding technology assessment, bioethics, human genetics, enuironmental management, computerization, 

I

:. New )tork. I I 
engineering, and architectural design challenge us every day. 

I ... · .. . . . . \.,r ···. 
: . St:Yl.~.·..vflzz~ I I
To eHplore these issues in depth investigate the unique Notre 

Dame STU Program. This is a minor requiring 1S hours that can be 
H'I.I:J;<kQil.e
taken by students in any college. Within the STU Program you 
sI:lee,

may deuelop concentrations in specific tracks emphasizing STU 
g:et·on..e

interactions with Business; Enuironmental Studies; Preprofes­sional Studies; Philosophy and Theology; Computer and Physical Sciences; and 6ouernment and Public Policy. 
I I

Course offerings for Spring 2000 may be reuiewed by informa­
I ~not valid with specials I
tion obtained at 346 O'Shaughnessy, or uisit our website at 

L--------------.J 
http://www.nd.edu/~stu. Call 631-5015 for a personal appoint­ment. 


·-~-----­


. . ~ 
m:.t.·..•.'•..·.·.
•:......·.•.'·••···....
,=": .::., 
.-:,it

orld 1

Thursay, April 13, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE 0BSEHVEH WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Man arrested in three Detroit slayings 
IHilBOIT 

A l'ormnr Navv man was arrested Wcdnnsda~· in tho sl,;yings of three prostitutes in DPLroit and may lw linked to killings in thr('(' otlH'r states and scwcral other countries, llw policP chinf' said. "This guy has crnatnd tf'rror around thf' world." said Police Chiol' lknny Napokon. "l!P is nu lungPr in a posi­tion to kill.'' Tlw man. who authorities would not idC'ntify brwausC' lw has not brnn chargrd. was mwP a rd'ue!Pr on tlw U.S.S. Nimitz. lln ulso is suspPctPd in ~-ilayings in Singapore. )long Kong. Japan. KorPa. Tel Aviv and Thailand -all ports ol' c.all l'or th(i Nimitz. NapolPon said. 
Turtle shell sales under attack 
NAIHOBI. Kenya 

A plan hy Cuba to Sl'II tlw slwlls of r.ndan­gC'r1'd hawksbill turtl1's tD .Japan canrn under at lack \\'i'd rwsdav from rnnsPrvationists who said Llw proposal ·ignorr'd Uw migratory naturr. of tlw lurt!Ps who brPPd in 01w part of the CaribbPan and fr!'d in anotlwr. Cuba wants thr. L.'.\l. Conwntion on Llw lnt1'rnational Trade in hidangPrt'd SpPciPs !CITFSl. to authorize a 01w-tinw salP ol' llw shd!s lo Japan. wlrnn• tlwy art' madP into hair 11rnanwnts and otlwr dor.o­rat ivP itPms ... lla,\·ksbil! lurtlPs arp highly migratory and PXLn'nwly slow to maturP. This. rnmbinPd with thPir ('omplirnti>d lil'P history and tlwir Sl'Vt'rPly dt'plf'tPd numbf'rs. makP it ultPrly prPmaturt' to rPopt>n intPrnational tradt>." Jr,ann<' !\lortinwr. a sPa LurtlP Pcologist. told a 11('\\S rnnl'Prt'nr1' at a 10-day CITES con­l'Pn'nr1' in Nairobi. 
Confederate flag removal debates begin 
COLU:VIBI/\. S.C. 

l.awmakPrs on \Vedrwsday bngan dnbating a rnmpromiso plan to n•movP tlrn Conl'oderatc 11ag l'rom Llw StatPl10usc, dome. as hundreds o[' 11ag supportPrs lirwd up to watch. The Scnaw 11ag bill is tlw first such lPgislation to thn reach tlw floor of Pither r.hamb()r this snssion. Key scnators had workPd oul an agrP('nwnt they thought would satisf'y !'lag supporlnrs and opponPnts. But tlw deal bPgan unraveling with !'lag supporters· objPdions Lo an clarifying anwndnwnt olTPrPd by [1ag opponents. Both sides workPd to saVI' tlw <·ompromisP. "Ladins and gr.nLIPmen. wr. arc, very. vPry close to mak­ing history:· said Dr>mocTatk SPn. Vmnn Smith. IIn said nag opponPnts wanted to make sure trirks wcrpn't bPing played on thmn. The bill would rcmovP tlw ban1wr from Lhn donw and plar<' a similar baltlP 11ag behind an existing monument honoring Conf(~dcratr: soldir:rs on StatPhousP grounds. 
1,ibiiiltiM1MU4 

Dow AMEx: 
926.79 

]ONES -1s.os 
Nasdaq:

-161.95 

3769.63 -286_27 
l\YSE 
65-1.25 
-6.95 
S&P 500: Compositr 1467.17 
\'olume:

11125.13 18,S%,96'J,081
-33A2 
VOLUME LEADERS 

LONP&NY  TIClt'fil  % CUAMGS  S tH&H91  PJLIP!  
CISCO SYS'T'EMS  C'SC'O  ~7. H  _, .0000  tiS.M  
MICRO.SOFT CORI?  MSVT  -5. 36  -t.OS.O  19-18  
COMPUWARE CORF  CPWfl  -40. 49  -8,1225  11.94  
St.TN MIC'RO~YSTEM  5UNW  -8. 9ii  -7.875,0  BO, 00  
NASI>A</ 100 SHAR  QOQ  -5.~9  -5.3700  92, 38  
OR.ACU CORP  ORCL  -s. 50  --i.4-SSO  13.12  
INTEi.. CORP  IN1'C  -6. 78  -9 .6761:l  1~1. 89  
MC'I WOALDC'OM IN  WCOM  -2, l5  -0,995,0  41.18  
JDS UNIPHASE  JDSU  -5. 6:l  -S.?4H  9ii-•4  
DELL COMFlJTER  DELL  -7. 32  -t..0575  Sl, 36  

Associated Press 
JEHUSALEM 
In a concession to the Palestinians. Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak accepted President Clinton's proposal to inrrease U.S. involvement ahead or a May deadline for a peacP treaty outline, a senior IsraP!i official said today. 
Barak's agree­ment was elicited 
--"-' during a qui('.k visit Clinton to Washington at Clinton's behest. said the official in 


he was found floating in Gonzalez, Elian 's great­Gonzalez, though the father 
Associated Press 

the Atlantic off Florida at uncle, brought the boy from has not indicated he would 
Thanksgiving. his Little Havana house to be willing to come to 
MIAMI BEACH "She's planning to work the Miami Beach home of Florida. 
With resolution of his out a resolution, trying to Sister Jeanne O'Laughlin, a Elian arrived at Sister fate drawing nearer, Elian meet with the parties con­Roman Catholic nun who O'Laughlin's home justGonzalez today moved to a cerned to seek a coopera­was host of Elian's grand­before 12:30 p.m. in a five­sympathetic nun's house tive settlement in this mothers when they visited car caravan that included as Attorney General Janet ease," Justice Department from Cuba in Januarv. the nun. Lazaro and 
Beno traveled to Miami to spokesman Myron Marlin Family spok.esman Lazaro's daughter try to settle the custody 
said. Armando Gutierrez said the Marisleysis, who had been dispute over the young Federal officials were nun's house would be a bet­hospitalized sinr.e Saturday. Cuban refugee. also working on a letter ter, more quiet setting for Marisleysis has ber.ome a 
Heno left Washington in 

telling Elian's Miami rela­Elian. It could also be a mother figure for the child. the afternoon to meet with 
tives to give him up potential site for a reunion and the Miami relatives the Miami relatives who 
Thursday or Friday. between the child and his have tried to include her in have cared for Elian since Earlier today, Lazaro 
father, Juan Miguel meetings about his fate. 
ISRAEL 

Barak approves U.S. proposal in peace talks 
Barak's delegation, who spoke on con­dition of anonymity aboard Israel Air Forre One. 
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat complained this week that the most recent round of U.S.-sponsorcd talks has not come up with anything con­crete. Arafat is demanding Israel agree to a Palestinian state on the West Bank and in Gaza with part of Jerusalem as its capital. !Io has accused Barak of taking an "extrem­ist" position. 
The sides arc still deadlocked over final borders. the futme of Jerusalem and the status of refugees. 
/\ failurn to meet a September l3 deadline f'or a full-fledgrd peace agreement could precipitate a com­
plete breakdown in negotiations and a return to violence. 
Clinton summoned Barak to Washington to ensure that the process he has nurtured l'or seven vears docs not collapse just before ·ho leaves office. The Israeli onicial said Clinton's interest in the topic stretdwd what was supposed to be a two-hour mcl:l­ing into more than four hours. 
The Israeli official said U.S. observers would begin sitting in on thr Israeli-Palestinian sessions rPgularly at Bolling Air rorce Basr near Washington. 1-fo said Clinton fr•lt that their presence at the nH'Ptings would facilitate tlrn af'trr-hours informal mediation that tho Amerirans had been conducting until now_ 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 13, 2000 
STUDENT SENATE 
Coillmittee calls for election reforlll 
By LAURA ROMPF 
Assistant News Editor 
Kelly Folks. Conner judicial council president, presented the el<~ction reform commit­tee's report \Vcdnesduy's senate meeting. 
"As vou all know. there wero ~ignificant prohlcms with p]ections this y1rnr,'' Folks said. "Our committee met sev,•ral limes aud has come up with new ideas for rcf'orms and changes to be made.·· 
"The main focus of tht:> committee was to 
"This year there were
open cam­would he µaigning small violations where l.css likely to happrm.
lJ p punishments were given
Currently. The final
privately. We believe it is
l h e reform deals process is in the best interest ofthe with thf> vio­closed so lation com­
student body that these 
our whole mitted by
would be made public.,,
t h e m e Hanover/ was to Micek ticket make it Kelly Folks from this m o r e year. The
election reform committee 
open, Folks con­tinued. 
The report called for a complete revision of the elec­tion committee as a body. The current structure has fow rules and this caused complications in this year's elections. 
"We are providing morn structure for this committee," Folks said. "We are designing an executive committee to make sure everything runs more smoothly." 
The executive committee would be responsible for functional aspects o[ the elec­tions and would also serve as grand jury for allegations of campaign violations and can­didate misconduct, the com­mittee report said. 
"This would make [the process of hearing allega­tions) more formal. Accused candidatC's would be able to come and wll their side of the story and also !'ace those who made the accusations," Folks said. 
f<urtlwrmorc. Folks said that even small violations would b!) madP public knowl­edge. 
"This year there were small violations where punishments were givrn privately," Folks said. "We believe it is in the best interest of' the student body that th(\Se would be made public. E\'eryone would know nverything. Tbis year people may have voted differ­1rntly knowing a candidate had committed a campuign violation." 
Folks also said that there would be a Statue of Limitations imposed on elec­tions. This would create a certain time period whcrn allegations could hf) made against candidates and when 
EURY DAY, THOUSANDS OF KIDS BRING GL1NS TO SCHOOL 
rmd out how to uet !rullS out 0£ the hands ofch5dren. 
1-800-WE-PREVENT 
Not ooe more lost lir,. :'olot on• R!OM' grieving l'smily. Nfflonemore. 
ciiiii&
r:-J ~-s:=~ 
appeals could be filed. Tho reform also would rhange tlrn current allotted campafgning pPriod. Although there would be no constraints on when candidates can start cam­paigning. there would still he spending limits imposed. Tlrnreforo it may not bn in tho best int"rests of tlrn ran­did atc to start campaigning early. I;olks said. 
The reform also rnlls for centralized voting locations instead of thf> current dorm sites. Student's accounts would be credited with one vot!' hy use or thPir ID cards, und thus voter fraud 
ticket was 
accused of 
using email to solicit votes, which is cur­rnn tly against election bylaws. 
"Because email is so diffi­cult to regulate. the commit­tee decided it should be a legitimate form of campaign­ing," Folks said. "We feiil pro­hibiting it would be a bad idea because there is no fair way to impose this regula­tion. 
Overall, the committee foels the student bodv as a whole needs to be bett!{r informed. 
"There were many com­plaints this year that no one knew the rules, and thus fol­lowing them was imµossible," Folks said. "We hope having a representative in each dorm will inform all students of the rules." 
The election reform ·s report will now go lo commit­tee within the senate where it will be reviewed and deci­sions will be made on exact measures to be taken. 
In other senate news: 
. 
Jay Smith was approwd as ollicc or the president chiPf of staff, Trip Foley as Student Union secretary, .John Osborn as student sen~tP parliarnr.n­tarian, Mark Leshcny as chaplain, Susan Roberts as academic delegate and Mail Clark as controller. 

. 
Taylor McWilliams, Class of 2002 treasurer for next ycar, was nominated as class treasurer of 2000-2001 finan­cial board manager. 


"Hey, Baby, I'm22 
today!" 

Mendoza 
continued from page l 

working in Hoss Perot's compa­ny saw an interview she did, and decided to him her. Ever sinc1~. she has wnrkr.d in the business world. 
lier oxporicnce with Urn tech­nological fiPld will acid a per­sp,~ctivc uot currnntly n~prcsr.nt­1~d cm the advisory council, Mrs. Mendoza said. · 
"I think Carolyn (Wool got very excited about having a success­ful female who knows aboul ven­ture capital !serving on the councilI," Mendoza said. 
I .ikc any nHm1h1~r of' the arlvi­sory boarcl, Mrs. Mnndoza will advise the Collego and offer feedback on cnrlain mattPrs, Woo said. 
It is not uncommon !'or a Notre Dame ;;ollege to havn donors serving on its advisory council. 
"Tho vasL majority of advisory council members are strong [financial! supporters of our University," said Dani<-•! Bimgan, Executive Director of Development, the department that handles donations to the University. t\t the same time, council members must also bring expertise to the counr,il. 
"All the members ... bring value to the council," Reagan said. "They're being supportive of the University and tlrnir par­ticular area ... We value 
cil members. 

While alum­ni arc the largest source or donations, the University also receives funds l'rom parents, friends, foundations, estatns, organizations and corporations, Beagan said. 
The development ol11ce is set up in such a way that different p1l!'sonnel arn assignnd to diffor­ent constituencies. For example, a specific pnrson is rnsponsible for seeking corporations that might have a natural interest in Notre Damn becausn of rnsnarch being conductnd lwrc or bncausn the company frequently rncruits Notrn Dame graduates. 
"Almost all contributions ­certainly major contributions ­arc a rnsult of' going back and forth" betwoPn tlH' Univ<ffsity and the donor, Hnagan said. That way, bolh tlw l!nivnrsity and the donor will both make sure the donation will hav1• an impact both siclns dnsirn. 
There is also an Annual Fund involving din1ct mail and other forms of communication that reach the nrnssns of' alumni, ar,r,ording to Heagan. 
Donors to the Annual Fund am entPrncl into a football tirket lot­tery. while more significant donors am given the opportunity 
t.o purchas<i tick,its. 

"Donors are giving because they boli1we in this placo. not for what they get," said Hf1agan. "We try to assisl tlrnm in any way we can." 
In the 1997-1998 fiscal year, lhe University reccivnd dona­tions of morn than $132 million. That sum ranks in Urn top 25 nationally in terms of total girts. 
Of' that total, approximatoly hal(' wiinl towards ,11Hlow­
tion from Notrt~ Danie. lw \\ as unsure if' he wanted a careflr in business, but soon decided it would be enjoyable. 
"The two of' us did not come from money," he said, adding that when ho began attnnding Notrn Dame in 1969. his father mad,! only $'12,000 a ynar. Mr. Mendoza explained that he and his wifo wero able to attnnd lhnir rnspnctivP universities bnrausn they rcc:eived financial aid. 
Wlwn the coupln was first marrind, they aspirnd to "do 
something 
special." as 

ment. Anotlrnr opposed to
'"/1w vast majority of 
$16 million was striving to
advisory council 
donatml without arhinve only restrictions as members are strong financial to how the succ,~ss, Mr.
{financial/ supporters (~/' 
money could be Mondoza 
our University."
spent. Alumni said. donations M r accountncl for Daniel Reagan Mt>ndoza more than $51 o l' I' 1~ r e d
executive director 
million of' all advic1~ lo slu­
of development
donations. dcn ls in the 
"We work in a very 1wrsonal way with our alumni in terms of' leadership,'' Heagan said. "It's the rnsponsibility of' the University to articulato wlrnrn progress can hP made." 
The Mcndozas' gift is part or the ongoing "Generations" cam­paign, which initially had the goal of creating 100 new endowed professorships. Thn Mnndozas' endowment in is tlrn largest gift in the Univnrsity's 
t h n i r history.
"/ think Carolyn /Woof
thoughts, "That's a very
got very excited about 
their ideas, uncommon gif't their con­having a successful . .. and nxtrnnw­e<~rns." 1y g<>1rnrous,''
female who knows about 
University Beagan said.
venture capital /serving 
President T h Father Malloy on the council/." Mnndozas camn is responsible to Notrn Damn for inviting this week to
Kathy Mendoza
people to mnet with 
University donor 
become coun­College students 
and faculty. 
In the stand­ing-room-only .Jordan auditori­um on Tuesday. the Mendozas spoke of tlrnir donation and llwir business in gnnnral to a crowd including both undPrgraduate and MBA students. 
"We've had quito a buzz around tlrn College tlw past month of' so," Woo told the audi­ence beforn introducing the cou­pln. "Wn Just wantnrl to bring tlw Mendozas to meot our school." 
Mr. Mendoza nevor imaginnd that Im would be wnalthy nnough lo makn such a largo donation, ho said. Upon gradua-
SUPEII 


ON ANY SPA!
a Availahle ro all sr11Jenrs anJ Parents with this coupon. 
Valid Sundar -Tlnmd;1v -nor valid for .Spcci;1J E"rnts
t.tarEL 

I-XO .11 hit 77 • '\~Xl'; l'S .BN • South Bend. IN• 272­9000 1-IW ,11 bii1 77 • '\282'\ US .BN • S1>11tl1 lknd, IN•
L _______________________ 
J 
• I-r•,·1 Cu11l1111•11fr,J [),,,.,.kf(1,I 
• I" r,,,. HPiC \ CNN, FSPN 
•r,,., I ,,1.ul C,11, f-\,x 

l'v1ust presenl coupon 
1wiori to clwck-i11 

272-9000 
room. Tlwy 
should find a company with val1ws they can belicw in. as well as 01w with an nxpanding markot, Mr. MPndoza said. 
11,i is proud to have his fami­ly's name on the Collngc ol' Business, and rnading about Notro Dame graduates who do "spocial things" will also add to his pride in his invnstmnnt, Mendoza said. 
"This is a special placP that turns out spncial peoplP ... both undPrgrad and graduatti," Mr. Mendoza said. 
Ilis rnmpany had tlm!P intnrns f'rom Notrn Damn and also hirNl onP of' the Uniwrsity's graduatf•s last ynar. 
"Coing to Notre Danw in my opinion is a grnat opportunity ... It's a dream," he said, lnlling tlw crowd that wlwn lw rccnivnd his acc<iptanco letter from thP Uniwrsity, lw did not lwliP\'O lw had really been acrnptPd. 
In addition to tlwir monev. tlw MPnclozas also olfor tlw c(,IIPgi' tlrnir "passion and nrwrgy," as well as knowlPdgP about lPC'h­nology, Woo said. 
"This gill is wondnrf'ul and not just about money. It's about tlw wholn link to Silirnn VallPy." Woo said. 
Woo also said that tlw rnup!P values success, rt•sponsibilit~ and sharing. 
"This is about what Notri· Damn stands for,'' slw said. 
"l'nople kePp thanking us ... but this is our pl1\asur,•." M1-ndoza said. 
$20 OFF 

Thursday, April 13, 2000 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 
;( 

·''·,<1,::~LJ··_o.·,A·_··v··_,-,o·-·
..
~:1 \n. 
_i ,.:. : :·:· : 
. .. . . -; ' . . 
. . .. ... 
···1f·:~fit'. ,,,.. 
~,:\imliiffl-.:•~ 
.. if_? :~y~ 



page 8 The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April 13, 2000 

"Bank of the Last 25 Years" as awarded by International Financing Review, the journal of record of the international capital markets. 
CREDIT 
FIRST SUISSE 

BOSTON www.csfb.com 
r------------------,_--------·-~.·..... ,.,.... --~-----........ 
Thursday, April 13, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Journalist Ta·be··shares-sto-ry-of-life in Camaroon 
woman hn is marrying is tlw hospital singing and dancing

• African weddings 
most hnautil'ul, tlw bnst and and that is how the woman isand funerals have nothing can r.omparn to her," taken back to lrnr honrn for a unique traditions slw rontintwcL "Tlw dowry foast." 
shows lwr valuP." · ThPr<' are two types of tra­

Tim l'amilins gathr.r and tlw ditional l'unr,rals in Af'rican By COLLEEN McCARTHY brick is invitnd to sit with tlw culturn, said Tabe. Assori:Ht' New~ Fditor groom ·s f'am ily. Thon, thn People who bnlong to an 
groom's family prnsnnts tlrn "association" in African soci­

Al'rirans h11v<' lwld tightly to bridn's family with a bottle of f\ty. an exclusive group, have marriag<'. hirth and furrnral whisk11y. Al'tPr bridn's mother a different kind of burial than rituals unic1t1<' to lhnir nd­and f'ather drink R glass, the Africans who don't belong to t U rP. said 1\ng<'I Tab<>. family has acceptPd tlrn mar­an association. CamProonian journalist and riagn. "My father belonged lo an 
llumphrny l'Pllow at th<' "Tlwn' is no minister association and when Im died, UnivPrsilv uf' Marvland in a thPrP." said Tabe. "After the we had to pay to go to the IPt'lur•· \\'••dnPsda:y at Saint C()rr,mony. both families rec­funeral," said Tabe. "Only thf1 Mary's. ognize Owir children as hus­association knows where he is 
Although in many parts of' band and wifo. Christian par­buried so I had to have one of .-\f'rirn. Llw typical 1:uropean nnts will nncourag11 their chil­my brothers initiated into the WPdding involving tlw woman drnn t.o go to association wParing LIH' whiLP gown and !'hurch t.o immedi­,·.,ii \vhi!P parading around havP llw mar­ately so we
"A wedding is just an 

LIH' city is stylish. a marriagn riagn rt!cog­w o u l d 
English word for 

is not olTirial just lrnraus<' a niznd but. k n o w 1•:uropPan-stylP \\'Pdding has PV!'ll thorP, ceremony, but in our where my tak<'n plar.P, said Tabc. thP minisLPr fatlwr was
tradition, Africans have 

.. ;\ \\' P cl cl in g is j u s t a n will ask if tlw going to be 
their own kind of

1-:nglish won! l'or l'('rPmonv, famili<'s havl' buried. To hut in uur tradition. Af'ril'aris approvnd ol' weddings." be candid, havt' llwir own kind of' wPd­
thf' mar­this was a dings," said Talw. riag... " vnry digni­
AngelTabe

I•:v<'n though a man and Al'tnr mar­l'ic cl cere­woman mav Im,·" ilP<'n dat­riagP, tlwr<' is journalist mony, but ing. if thl'\. clPf'iclP lo marrv much prPs­expensive. without l11Pir l'amilv's ,·011·­sur<' to havc It is unre­sPnt. llw f'arniliPs do ·not l'PC­childrPn as offspring am seen ali.st(~: that fWnryone could do ognizP tlw 111arriagP. as a sign of' WP,tlth. tl11s. 
"Tlw groom's f'amily has to "Orw of the greatnst causos An ordinary burial differs 
go out and look f'or tlw briclp's of' divorce is childlnssness," from a burial of onP who family and introdw·<· tlw idPa said Tabo. "There is great belongs to an association. of' marriagp," s,iid Talw. valuP placml on children and "We can't keep a corpse for 
A dovvry is also rwgotiatPd tho b Iam<? is placed on the more than two days so a bur­bPlWP('ll thn bridn and woman if a man and woman ial takes place but the cele­groom's f'a111ilins. can't have children." bration can go on f'or two "/\!though it is uncl1)rstood Childbearing is highly ccln­weeks," said Tabe. "On the that no pricP ca11 b1i placl'd 011 bratfld in the African culture, seventh day of burial, it is tlu• v,Lllll' of a human, SOl1l!~ said Tabe. believed that the person who pric<' must bP ,wgotiatt'd to "When a woman is giving died is escorted to a final show tlw valuP lo llw ollwr birth to her first child, the resting place. So this means 
family of having surh a valu­delivnry tak•\s place with another foast takes place." ab!P 1wrson lwl'onw part ol' nitlrnr her mother or mother­Tabe's lecture was part of tlwir family," shP said. · in-la\\ ,1l 11(•1 ~id,•," ,;aid T~h" the Inl!~rnational Month cele­
"This is how th1~ dnwrv or "\\'h,·11 tlw l'liild is born it is a bration . Tabe wll lead a sto­bridP pril'P conws along. ·Tlw who!P r1'll'hratio11. \Vompn rytelling session Thursday at groom's family lwli<•ves the from Iii<· village' gatlwr at. tho 12:15 p.m. in 105 Madaleva. 
FRIDAY, APRIL 21 LOCAL H 
F<0:PAY ~ZS 


p.s. DUl'IP YOUR BO\'FRIEND 
For ticket info call the Heartland Concert & Event Line: 219.251.2568 222 S. Michigan • South Bend • 219.2345200 www.aceplaccs.com/heartland 
Mix it up with 1200 others from the Class of 2000 TONIGHT and EVERY THURSDAY tor 
DO®@~LJ[1@[ru@)0~ COLLeGe n1GHT 
SOUTH BEND'S BIGGEST PARTY 
(with college t.D., must be 21)$1COVER and Jots of other stuff for a buck, too. 

TabP who won tlw .Journalist of"
. Writer struggles 
the YPar award in Camaroon in
I 

for free press 
1997. 
That y1•ar. Tabe !Parrwd about By SARAH RYKOWSKI the II um ph r1\y FnII owshi p Saint Mary's News Editor Program. She applicd and was accept.Pd on tlH' basis of' hPr environmental and journalistic
Angel Tabr.'s visi! to Saint 
accomplishmnnts.
Mary's campus served as a grim "I got selectcd bnr:aus<• of 'Tlw
reminder that democracy has 
Green Pages· and the award. bv
not spread to the entirn world. 
showing the Pxperiences of th;~
Tabe, a former journalist and role of' the nwdia in nnviron­
news anchor in lrnr native 
mental protection." Tabe said.
Camaroon. visits Saint Mary's Whilr, at hnr prPvious job,
this week as part of an effort to Tabe covernd events on environ:
educate American students mental issues as well as others,
about African customs and the worked out of the newsroom.
tenuous political situation in the country. 
given the Sunday evening 111•ws, "The situation in my country 
been a radio announcPr and is one in which there isn't free­worked at tho foreign news dom of expression," Tabe said. 
desk. lier crowning achieve­
Tabe was lircd from her job ment while at the corporation as deputy head of programs at was the development of the the national radio station run by "Luncheon Datp'' show, where 
the Camaroon Radio and she reviewed the events of the Television Corporation in 1994 day from around the rountrv. for events that transpirnd two "It was a program evnrylJOdy years earlier. looked up to," Tabe said. "It was 
In 1992, Tabe at1ended a tho only avenue for people to press conference given by hear the news l'rom all over the Camaroon's Ministnr of country in two to threu hours." Inl'ormation and Culture. Tim Now. Tabe has a slightly dil'­
presidential elections occurring foren t vocation. ;\ full:tirne at the time wpre a significant graduate student at tlw source of controversy and dis­University of' Maryland. slrn ronl. with accusations of misbP­intends to educate the masses havior flying left and right. on environmental policy, 
When it was Tabe's turn to wealth, and development. question the minister, she asked "J want to put what I hav1) why he did not show the videos studied into practicn," TabP of the alleged burnings and said. "I want lo shan~ it with killings that wPre the source of' many people. I want to us11 my the controwirsy and interview media skills to sensitize people the political leader whose house about conservation issues. It and car were purported to have could be on radi~, telrvision. been burned. This suggestion print or the internet. I'm going 
• did not sit well with the minister to use all the mndia avenues." 
and his allies W(~re not receptive In the summer after classes to her suggestion. Tabe was end she will begin an· intPrnship relieved of her title and duties with the World Bank. the next day and !ired in 1994. "Part of lhe [fellowshipI is that 
"After the political problems. I you work in a U.S. ouganization could no longer work," Tabn which enhances your skills." said. "I was invited to a seminar 
Tabe said. on media and Pnvironment." In the meantime, bntwr•en her After she attended the confer­studies, Tabe travels the coun­ence, Tabe turned to media con­
try. educating Americans about sulting "to sensitize the public to her culture. 
environmental degrarl111inn." "I tra\('I a lot." Tabe said. "I "I had a weekly publil'ation don't rnf'usP invitations becaus1, eallnd 'The Green Pagns,"' s,1 id 
they am opportunities to share." 
Vd:~j__t 'i1p.e Obsezyer online. 
.. . . !if . 

·nttpf//observer.nd.edu 


To all members of the University community: 
It is with great regret that I inform you that Mr. Gaetano Pesce will be unable to attend the Crossing Boundaries conference at the Univesity of Notre Dame on April 14 and 15. Mr. Pesce's absence is due to a grave scheduling error at a lime when he is exceptionally busy with the Salone de! Mobill in Milan, not to mention his everyday schedule of projects and lectures. 
In no way is Mr. Pesce's absence a reflection of his interest in Crossing Boundaries or the University of Notre Dame. Rather, he looks forward to rescheduling a visit to your campus, if still welcome, at a later date. 
Thursday, April lJ. '.WOO The Ohsrrvrr . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
ISRAEL 
Barak welcomes Chinese president 
Associated Press 
JEHUS/\LEM 

Under U.S. prPsstm• to t'.an­nd a lur.rativ,i arms d1•al with C h in a . Isnw I w" I,. o m Pd C:hinl'st· l'rnsidPlll Jiang Zl'min 011 a hisloril' visit \V1•dnPsday to th1> .lt>wish stat,·. cl'ml'nling Lil's first. forgnd ill sncrN n,rnrly t.wo decadPs ago. 
Tho high-prol.i11• rPcognition of lsn11•l -tlm visit is ttw first by a Chi1wsci prnsicknt -was sn••n as strong proof lwrc• that tlw days ol' diplomatfr isnla­Li 011 a rt' ovc r l'or good. Ilow1\V1\r, tho now status also brought rww problnms for lsranl. sul'h as juggling thr div1•rgcn1 intcrl'sts of its strongest ally and a pownrful new fril'ml. 
lsnwli !'rime Minister Ehud Barak welcomed Jiang: less than 24 hours aft<'r mnP-ting at ll11• Wh i ln II ous,, with l'rPsidcnl Clinton. who urged the lsranli lnadnr to cancPI the planrwcl salP of a sophistirat<'d airbornn survoillancn syswm to China. 
Clinton {ixprnssccl dnep dis­pleasur,, and wanind that the dmLI. pot1rnlially worth $2 bil­lion. could underminP Israel's standing in the Unitnd States, said an lsra1di official who n! tcrHI Pd Tuesday's White I lousP summit. Dannv Yatom. narak's top policy ·adviser. said tlw U.S. CongrPss was '\,(•rv wmTind" about th1• salri. 
lst:,wl's d1•puty ddcnsn min­istPr. Ephraim Sn1-l1. said lsnwl was commiltPd Lo St)ll­ing at !Past on«) surveillance piano to China. which report­Pdlv has thP option to order thr<l!' to seven mor1L Israeli offil:ia!s have suggnstcd that a l'lPr thP first plane is sold. thP d1)al could Ile frozen indefinitely to appease the UnitP.d States. 
Srrnh said that in thP competitive inti,rnatiunal arms market. "tlwrc arc no frionds." Dcs<'.ribing 
U.S. µressurn 

PHALCON sale to China 
Israel welcomed Chinese President Jiang Zemin on Wednesday amid 
criHcism from the United States over Israel's sal• of the PHALCON 
airborne surveillance system to Chiria, which the Clinton 
administration feels could pose a threat to 
Taiwan, a U.S. 
ally. 
PHALCON707 
statlstlcs 
PHALGON, one ol the world's most Max. speed: 605 mph 
advanced early warning systems, 
Range: 4.300 miles plays a major role on the modern battlefield by providing real-time intelligence to enable surveillance of borders in war and peacetime. Its radar system replaces the conventional rotodome radar used on AWACS, and is mounted either on the aircraft Jusslage or atop the aircraft inside a stationary d.orne, providing full 360 degree coverage
Wingspan: 
146 ft, 3 in. 
Ra~ar tracks both high and low-~ying targets from distances of hundreds of mRes day and night under all weather conditions. 

Lengtl1: 145 n. 7 in. 
Win, J. CasleHo, S. Halfmann/AP 
on Israel as a "steamroller," hr, scoffed at 
U.S. complaints that the sale <'.ould upsPt thP military bal­ance in Asia and pose a threat to Taiwan. a U.S. ally. 
Jiang arrived in Israel on 
\Vedrrnsday afternoon for a 
six-day visit. Tho countries listablished diplomittic rela­tions in 1992, but secret ties go back lo the early l 980s when Israel began selling arms to China. 
llis first stop was a recep­tion by lsraeli President Ezer Weizman. Describing Israel and China as ancient nations, Jiang said it was important to "strengthen tho historical friPndship between us ... and to promote f'rinndly and mutu­ally beneficial cooperation in various fields betwerm the two countries." 
Israeli and Chinese officials on Wednesday signed agree­ments on education and industrial technology research and development. 
During his visit. Jiang will hold talks with Barak and Israeli lawmakers, visit Yad Vashem, Israel's llo.locaust memorial, and tour two com­munal farms in the Negev Desert to inspect agricultural projects. On Saturday, he will meet Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat in the West Bank town of Bethlehem. 
A planned visit to lsrael Aircraft lndustries, which is outfitting a Soviet transport plane with the new PHALCON surveillance system, has reportedly been canceled to avoid drawing more attention to the deal. 


Holy Cross College is a small, close-knit, two-year 
HOLY 

liberal arts college where you'll get the personal attention you need for success. W!2'll challenge you, CROSS too ... with an expanded curriculum that includes 
* 

a new Associate of Arts in Business Administration COLLEGE degree. And wait till you discover our campus life. 
Notre Dame, Indiana

We've spruced up the landscaping, added new sports and recreation facilities and created more on-campus P.O. Box 308 housing. Just recently, we broke ground on a new Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308 student apartment complex. Looking for the path to 219-239-8400 • Fax 219-233-7417 a brighter future? It starts right here at Holy Cross. www.hcc-nd.edu 
©2000 HCC 
CUBA 

Castro: Capitalism causes poverty 
Associated Press 
IIAVt\NA 

Cuban President Pidel Castro launched a scathing attack on the world's capitalist system Wednesday, telling a summit of the world's 
p o o r nations that the eco­n o m i c order had caused suf­fering com­parable to the Nazi 


I Iolocaust. Castro 
Castro. wearing a suit instead of his usual military garb, denounced capitalism before at least 40 heads of state or government at the Group of 77 summit, and called for the elimination of the lnternational Monetary Fund, accusing it of spreading world poverty. 
"The images we sec of moth­ers and children in whole regions of Africa under the lash of drought and other catastro­phes remind us of the concen­tration camps of Nazi Germany," he said. 
Referring to war crimes trials after World War II, the Cuban leader said: "We lack a Nuremberg to judge the eco­nomic order imposed upon us, where every three years more men. women and children die of hunger and preventable dis­eases than died in the Second World War." 
Castro's complaints of inequality were shared by other speakers at the opening of the summit. But the organization was likely to seek less radical solutions than the Cuban leader's -which also included a call for a 1 percent tax on all financial transactions to finance a global development fund. 
Draft resolutions called for developed countries to forgive the debts of poorer states, share technology and give poor­er nations a greater say in the use of international develop­ment funds. They also call for shifting more decisions from groups controlled by rich nations. such as the IMF and World Bank. to the United Nations. Since its 1964 found­ing, the group has grown from 77 to 133 developing nations, representing around 80 precPnt of the world's population. 
N1-)vcr has thP world wit­n0ssed such massive disparities in international social and eco­nomic activitil's," said Nigerian President Oluscgun Obasanjo. whose country chairs the sum­mit. 
He warned that failure to reform international aid poli­cies that have maintained the wealth gap "constitutf-\ a major threat to international peace and security." 
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan also called for debt relief and greater investment in poor countries and said developing countries should work together to increase their own trade and cooperation. 
"I believe governments need to work together to make change possible but govern­ments alone will not make change happen. We have to engage the power of private investment" as well as non-gov­ernmental and academic orga­nizations, he said. 
He said the summit would help the developing world forge a united front at the United Nation's upcoming Millennium Summit in September. 
Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohammad took aim a global system that he said allowed "rogue currency traders" to plunge his country and East Asia into financial cri­sis by undermining their cur­rencies. 
"Millions were thrown out of work and made destitute," he added. "The international eco­nomic institutions moved in ostensibly to help with loans but in reality to facilitate the takeover of the country's econ­omy and even politics.'; 
lie sneered that rich coun­tries should permit 11en flows of labor as w~ll as capital. "If money is capital for the rich. labor is the capital of the poor countries. They should be allowed to migrate to the rich countries to compete for the jobs there just as the powerful corporations of the rich must bP allowed to compete with their tiny counterparts in thn poor countriPs." 
In New York Citv. Abraham Foxman. national° dinictor of' the Anti-Defamation League. reacted to Castro's comparisons to the Holocaust. saying thn Cuban leader "lives in his own time warp. and so whilP I'm disappointed. I'm not sur­prisPd." 
Tbursdaqs oiae students niql-.t. StuJents iaeceiv.e 2596 oH meal p•ke wifh qour sfudent I.D. 

M1datan<:1'wost unique Jihinq experi-ence Locof.-d Jn tJ.e b-•"'I ot tbt" H,sfoPic \00 Center in Mishawalco (219) 257-1792 www.lOOcenfeP.com 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 12 BSERVER Thursday, April 13, 2000 =============================================---------~----------=--=--=--=--=-=---=--=-=---=--=--=--=--=-=---=--=-=---=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=-=---====-=-=-=-=========================================­
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Bux Q. No1r. D:une, IN 46556 024 Sm1<h Dming Hall, Noire [Jome, IN 46556 
EDI fOR IN CHil:.F Mikt' Connollr 
M11.NAGING En1TOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Tim Lane  
i\s,T. MANAGING EDlT0lt  Ol'ERATIONS MA"IAGflt  
rim Logan  B, ian Ke,.,ler  

NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mawngly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Hdughey Srortrs Em roR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco S!\INT MAR.'s EDITOR: Molly Mc\'oy PHOTO EDITOR: Liz Lang 
ADVERTI,rNC MANA<;ER: Par Perers Ao 01:SIGN MANAGER: Chi• Avib SYSTfM~ ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville \X'EU AD.\11:-,/ISTRAl'Oll: Adam Tllfner CONTROLLER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDIT0!I: Jose Cudhir 
C . NTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGFR.iGENF.RAL INFO............6J 1-7471 fax.. .. ... .. . ... ... .. .. ... . . . .. .. ... .. ..631-6927 ADVERTISINC.... .. . . ...... .. .. . ......... 611 -6900/8810 
ob,crver@darw1n.cc.nd.<du EDITOR IN CHIEF....................................631-4542 MANAGlr-G Er>ITORIAsST. ME....................631-454I BUSINESS OFFICE......................................631-5.313 NEWS............. -...........................................631-5323 
observer.obs11ews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.......................................... ......65 l-5.>0.~ obscrver.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCE.'IIE.. ......................................................631-4540 observer.sccne. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu Pnorn.... . .............................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
\·isir our \X'eb site a, http:llobremer.!ldedu for daily upd..tre.s ofcampus n..:ws, sports, ft'atures and opinion columns. as wdi as cartoons. reviews and breaking news from the Associa,ed Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-m-,he 
movies/music for 
minu[e forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates ofprim ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer
archives to search for 
arricles published after 
m meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent. daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofrhe lJ niversity of Notre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's CoHege. Editorial conrem, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofrhe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as acrurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Edit0r, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commemaries, letters and columns present rhe views of rhe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewprnm space is av.1ilable to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters rn the Editor mnsr be signed and mu.<r include concacr intOrmatio11. 
Q11rmons rrgttrding Obsm,er pnlicies shnu!d he direct­ed /0 E.di1or 111 Chic/Mike Com10/fy. 
DILBERT 
TECHNOLOGY BUDDHA HOW DID 't'OU 
BE.COME 50 
ENLIGHTENED? 



During the 80s, I worked in Hollvwood. in the entertainment field. Weli. technically, I guess you could say that I provided protective servirns l'or people who actually worked in tlrn entertainment finld. Anyway, I was reviewing seripts one day. 'Nell, tnch­nically, I guess you could say that I pickBd up a script which was lying on a desk near me. The script was "Hudy." Because "Rudy" showed there is a market for heart-tugging, Horatio Alger-type stories, it has surprised me that Hollywood has not yet found a script to replicate this success. I decid­ed to try my hand at writing onn. It's loo late for "Rudy II", so I looknd f'or a new angle for the "walk-on" player. 
I couldn't use basketball; because we've already had handsome Miko Edwards scoring a basket, on an artifi­cial leg, in an exhibition game against a top team. I couldn't use women's hoops either; because we've already had viva­cious Christy Grady changing jobs from team manager to player, during the Final Four and scoring a basket (and becoming ESPN's Player of the Day). 
Football is always a good bet for a Notre Dame movie, but we've alrt•ady had Heggie Ho stepping out of' interhall football to kick four field goals to beat Michigan and Pat Ileenan coming over from Dillon llall to start at end, on the 1959 team, before playing a yoar with 

I JUST EAT 
A LOT AND TELL PEOPLE 
0 0 
~ 

Urn Washington lkdskins. 
I decided to concentrate on the grnut­est of' all sports ... basflball, about which morn nrnvics have been madn than all other sports combined. 
Here's my premise. We'll fcaturn a local kid, who grew up in the shadow of the Dorne. We'll make his father an alumnus; in fact a former basnball player. V\'CJ'll give him a namn which "nominal detnrminism" would doom to walk-on status (how about Matt Nussbaum). 
Wn ·11 give him an Ozzie and [larrilit family (as a contrast to Hudy's). We'll makn his youngN brother a lluck Finn typ(' who's very supporliv<~ of his big brotht1r. Ditto for the cute kid sistnr. We'll have the mother look like a prom quenn and the dad, although a lawyrn-, will al'tually bCJ a rnally lik1lablr1 guy. (llollywood likes that kind of a charac­ter twisO. 
Tho whole family will nevnr miss a game, even though tlrnir boy has littln chancn ol' playing and Dad often has to drivn up from Indianapolis, whero he is one or the top attorneys in the gover­nor's office. 
This walk-on will have been a high school sncond basemen, which is likn playing right field in Little League ­it's not where you look to rncruit col­lPge prospects. lln'll be average size, with mediocre speed and no powtw. 
We'll have this guy go zero hits for two years. lle'll gnt into a few gamos because thn head coach is ono of those inspirational types who rewards scrub players who warm up pitchen;; chatter in the dugout; hustle in practice; and volunteer when needed. In fact, we'll evrrn have the walk-on tnll a lib and claim Im has pitching experience, so ho grts put into a game to mop up on tlrn mound. 1le'II have to borrow a pitclrnr's-type glove from brother Danny. llt1'1l even get out of a bases­loaded, no-out situation, without yield­ing a run, but that won't be tlrn story angle. W1•'II shoot for a stronger end­ing. 
SPe, all tlw while this kid is working hard in tlw weight room. building up his muscles. Suddenly. )m's a 200­poundt•r. For his junior season. those grounders to sm:ond base ar<i now lirw shots into tlw outliPlcl. Thos<' weak flies to tlw outlidd are now extra basP hits. We'rn going to have this kid start 57 ganrns; hit .:114; driw in :n runs; and scorn 37, whil<! banging out 10 doubles. a triple and live homers. lie's going to hit over 370 with two out and ht1'1l havn a 14-game hitting str<'ak. 
To complde tlw story, this Matt Nussbaum guy will be a co-captain for his senior ynar; get his pictur<' on team promotional mal<lrials; and transl'orm himseir into a catclrnr wlrnn thn All­American backstop injures his throwing arm. While working behind tho plate (like he's bn1rn them all his lifo) Matt will rais<\ his batting avciragn to the Tony Gwynn rangn whiln incrnasing his HBI numbers. 
llow do you like thn story? YPah, just what I thought. Too improbabl1\. No onn would 1w11r bdieve it. 
Cappy Gagnon, '(,6, is proud lo sit with the Nussbaums in Frank /:'ck Stadium. I/is column appears euery other Thursday. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not rzeces­sarily those of The Obsenier. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
WHOSE SHOE DID YOU SCR.APE THIS  "Next to religion, baseball has furnished a greater impact on American life than any other institution."  
Herbert Hoover American President  

,........,....,...,._....,_....,______...,._ 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Thurn.by, April 13, 2000 BSERVER page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Realizing the 

importance of 
volunteerism 

Tlw importance or community sopms particularly notable as llw country celebrates National Volunl1Hir WePk. April 9-1 S, 2000. While this serves as u tim,i to l'!\cognizt' the efforts of volunteers in bettering their rnmmunitit\S, il also provides an opportunity to encour­age voluntPPrism. At a plan~ lib' NotrP Damf', wlwrn llw studi·nL body is ov(~rwlwlmingly committed to ser­vice•. thcs<! dforto; sn<'lll misplaced. It is always impor­tant. hnwPvPr, to recogniz,, the positive impact Wl' can and do haw 011 th11 South !fond communilv. In addition, National Volunteer Wenk rmninds llS to consider how WP will incorporatn voluntPerism into our lives arter Notn• Danw. 
l voluntPPI' at th,~ I.Pgal SPrvices Program of Northern Indiana. Inc. For a ft,w hours cvc;ry 'Neck, I assist with inlakP -!wiping polc\ntial dicnts ~·omploto applications for frnn legal assistalH'f' or r1:prns1•ntation. Thn ecluca­tion I haw r«'<'.eived at Legal SPrvirPs definit<~ly exceeds any experiPnni I could have had in a DcBartolo class­rn;,m. \VhilP it is often l!asy to become consumNI with our livPs on our sPcludPd campus. we isolatn oursdves l'rom the opportunities and lessons of the surrounding world and ignorP the impact that we rnuld have. 
Wlwn I lirst talked to my supervisor at Legal Services. she asked what l would dcsrribe as mv weakness. I told hPr that prniph1 often say I am too idr:alistic. She warned nw that I might beconw dis!'.ouragPd by tlw situations I would Pncounll'r at L<igal s1,rvirns. ,\t times· I am dis­twartPrwd wtwn l hnar detaih•d accounts of the effects or failP<l gov(m1ment bnndits programs. discriminating Pmp!oyPrs, irrPsponsiblP landlords and abusiw spouses. 'vlv rnnwrsations with clinnts i1wvitably end with many lh:rnks for list1'11ing to llwir prob!Pm. oftnn explaining that tlwy have brn'n turnl'd away or ignored by every­one nlse. At tlwse moments, I recognize the impact of llH' work LPgal Snrvic('S dot's. ,\ncl I realize that ideal­ism is ncvPr a weakness. 
,\s a rnluntP<W. I am constantly rmninded of my own good fortu1w and I am inspirPd by tlw dedicatt>d efforts of many to improw this community. l witness the sdf­lPss gnwrosity of countless c·.ommunity and student vol­unlPPrs. Finallv, I am rnm·inrPd of the need for us to morP l'ullv con;miL oursf'lws to tlw f'ulurn of' our rom­111uniti1•s.· (lnly wlwn WP n•1·ognizP that we an• a rmn­rnunitv and not mPrnly a rnltc•rtion ol'indivi<lual intPr­1'sts. !'·an W<' truly \vork toward a promising futurn. 
Chloe Hutchinson Senior, oH:campus April 9. 2000 

Viewpoint is accepting letters for the commencement edition. Please label letters "senior week" and send th~m to viewpoint.1 @nd.edu 
Men on campus respond to rape letters Rehashing issue won't help 
I feel compell,1d. after Mr. Reyes' article, ("Men's Silence" April 9, 2000) to say a few things. I am not concerned about the lack of men's voices regarding the rape issue. I don't think rehashing the issue of rape in the next two months of Obsorvers will do anything to either eliminate rape or help heal the people actually involvnd. At this point, it may hindi>r that healing process. It is a hard call to make. 
On the one hand, awareness of rape is absolutely important. Hut ut sonrn point. we stop using The Observer to heighten awareness and start using it to simply vent our own opinions about issues. One is about information. the other is about hearing ourselves de bah!. We boil one incident of' rapP down to an oppor­tunity for the whole campus to tell one young woman what we think she should do, and how everyone should respond to the issue. In being so inconsiderate of the emotional strain involved, we remove the victim and the perpetrator from the equation altogether. To talk too much about the issue of rape is to distract from the real issue at hand: the assault to the victim's, and the perpe­trator's, dignity. 
Many people on this campus have a problem ,vith rape. but think pornography is just fine. There is no dif­ference between denying the sanctity of a woman·s body with our eyes, and denying it with our actions. This is the real issue we should all be confronting. Even with increased awareness. we will not eliminate rape until we grant everyone their inherent dignity. 
At this point, it is silly to waste more Observer space talking about tho issue of rape. We ought to be about thP businf'ss of educating oursPlves about rape, not reacting to the sensationalism generated by this fine student-run publication. We ought to bo about thn busi­ness of granting people's inherent dignity, and praying that we don't deny it to ourselves. We should simply be quiet, and support the victim and the perpetrator. 
Talk is cheap, friends ­ cheap and powerless. But we  
are not.  
Joshua Warner  
Sophomore. Zahm Hall  
April 1 L 2000  


"\\'ho is worse, the man vvho rapes or the man vvho condones it with his silence?" This is the question posed by Christopher Reyes in his April 9 letter to The ObsPrver. Personally. I find tlrn question nothing Jess than offensive. 
Hape is wrong. There is no doubt that rape is wrong, and it is a tragPdy that it exists anywhere in the world, espncially at our beloved university. Apparently. due to personal nafvt'te, I didn't rPalize that people don't know rape is wrong. I think rape is an a<·tion that is so horrifically. ob\iously and inherently immoral that pcopln shouldn·t need a reminder that it is \\Tong. I, too. would like to commend the ,,·omen ol'Notr0 Dame and Saint .Mary's for spP.aking out about the horrors of' rap<i. Their testimony has lrnlpnd incrrase awareness. ,vhirh ran do nothing but help when it comes to pre­vention. 
The supposed silrnce of men at Notre Dame, how­ever. does not imply that WH condone rape. Nobody has spoken out dPnouncing murder t>iLhPr. but that certainly doesn't mean that we condone it. And it a.bsolutelv does not nwan that we are worse than actu­al murd<'r(. l'S. Penplt' may say that the two crimes cll'f' too difforont to make this comparison. but 1don't think tlwy ure. The effects rausi>d by rape can conceivably 1md a life. although not always in such a physical sense. But we all know murder is wrong: it is a painfully obvious fact. Just becausr WP haven't publicly stated this doesn't mean we condone it. 
Perhaps there are people on this campus who don·t know rape is vvrong. I highly doubt it. but for those men who did not know this, I pity you and hopP that you are enlightened immediately. Rapists are rriminals and social monsters. and I have to think thev haw heard before that rape is wrong. ~1aybP publicly stat• ing this will prevent somr rapt', sonwwlwre. 
Awareness and prevention art> vital and sh,JUld bP strossed; men need to undPrstand t>xactly what rapn is and tlwrc .1re some at this uniVf'rsitv who don't quitP understand the concept. But a failm:o to speak out against rape docs uot imply that anybody rnndorws it. And. more importantly, a failure to spPak out against rape certainly does not make one worsP than an actual rapist. The fact that this question was evm brought up and this eomparison ever madn is nothing ]Pss than insulting. 
Mr. Reves· intentions WPrn aclmirablP, but his t1awPd logic and his final qm>stion was simpiy olfon­si\'e. Yes.'rnpe is wrong. But just bemuse nwn at our university have not publicly statPd this fal't dons not mean thev condone it. and it dnlinitPh· does not makn lhem wor.se than actual rapists. . 
Benjamin Schack fre,l111w1. Keen,lll Hall April 1 I . 2000 


MOVIE REVIEW 

Bad writing, missed opportunities plague 'Rules' 
American National Security Advisor to
By MIKE Mcl\10RROW 
find a scapegoat in Childers. Thus,
Scene Mm•ie Critic 
charges an~ brought ag,tinst Childers for oisrupting tlrn peace. conduct "Hull'.S of EngagenH'nl" is an examµIP unb1woming of a marine and murdPr. 
of good l<>ad acting hindered by a Childors turns to his old Vietnam rnm­srre1•nplay lhat seems to want to be radP !lodges for representation. uni11tPlligP11t. William Friedki11's latHst whose response is 'Tm a good enough 
1'xtravaganza. which deals with the lawy('I' lo kncl\\ that you IW!'d a lwttnr atroriHPs of w,n and tllf' SllpposPd lawv<'r than Ill!'." "rulps" of rnmbat. hints al thoughlt'ul Tfw charges against Child(•rs dPal 
issu1•s but is ti-appPcl i11sid1' a story that with wlrnther or nol his ordc\r was is so µoorl\· thought-out that tlw audi• against an arrnod, f'i ring crowd. If not. !'n<·e is Jpft feeding manipulatnd and and tlw victims wnrc civilians. it is 
rlwatl'd. agai11sl the "rul,,s of' engagcnwnt. .. ThP film stars Samrn•l L. Jackson and llmvPvPr. any hints as to tlw truth ar,, 
Tnmmv LP!' Jones as old buddins who 11PvPr giv<'n, causing tlw audi1•11cP to \\' P 11 t •l<l \' il'l nam toge l her . T n r r y fe('I manipulated. Chi!d,,rs (.Jaeksonl saved llayns Jackson has a g1·pa( !lodges' (Jon<'s) lif'P, dNtl of' charisma as an thus llodgl'S fcrls f'orev-"Rules of actor, but IJpc•.aust' of' 1' r ind (' bt l' d t o b im . tlw lrnrn·ndous loss of' TwPnly-Pight y11ars Engagement" lil'i\, viPwPrs f'ppl no latPr. ChildPrs is a sympathy for his char­
n~ s p"1· t"d Marin I' 
acter at all. Did tlw col01wl and llodges is a crowd l'irP? Tlw mediorrP lawver with a 
answnr is unf'ortunat<'· 
0111 of five shamrocks 

drinking problem ly not revnalPd until the COllll'S across as 1:hildish, as il avoids good. Tll('y add depth to charactPrs 
ChildPrs is called in to very line!. By this tinw, furtlwr questions thal the film could that, in thP PlllbodimPnt of' lessPr supprPss an anti· Director: William Friedkin thP auclil'ncc· has haVl' raisod. actors, would havP bnPn inl'uriating.American riot located Starring: Samuel L. Jackson ceased caring and. Thn l'ilm mav have worknd had it .Jackson and .lonns are nvnn ablP to outside the American therefore, the outcome spnnl more tin;e nxamining the true pull off a SlHJSP of' drama in tlw court· 
Embassv in Yemen. andTommyleeJones 

scums cheap. intnntions of' thn rules of engagement room scenes that f'ppJ mon· or IPss flip· Childl'rs arrives and It donsn't h(>!p that tlrnmsnlves. lnsttiad. it toys with the pant. They alone makP thP last half' of' sees that it is gelling ugly. with snipers there arc so many unnr.cessary plot audiencn's expectations. tlw movie lrnarable. on rooftops ready to take shots at lines that demean any kind of real llad the audi1;nc(i b<len aware of the .I ackson is a perl'Pct actor f'or a American forcrs. Childers gets the debate about Childers' actions. Tim trun nature ol' llrn situation in the first strong•willnd, combat-orinntnd, wnll· ambassador and his family out suc· lilrn 's '.\/ational Sncurity Advisor in par­placn, there might have been an oppor· intnntionnd Marine, and .Jones is con­cessfullv. but somP of his men are ticular is so superficially scripted that tunity lo ask difficult questions about vincing in a rolP that rcquin's convic­
killed. Livid at the loss of his marim\s, his credibility is destroyed soon action in combat, the treatment ol' bel­tion and vulnPrabilitv.
as as Childers orders his men to open f'irn on he appears on scnrnn. His actions ligerent but unarmed protesters and In the hands of ,t morn inlnlligentthe crowd at the base of the embassy, serve only as plot devices. For exam­possible diplomatic issues. Yet there is and less-f'orcPd screenplay, tlrnrn resulting in 83 deaths. ple, he destroys a piece ol' evidence no serious treatment because the might have lrnnn the chancr to ask This hits the front page of all tlrn that could help prove Childers' inno­screenplay hidns tlrn true questions. some rnal qtwstions. Instead, questionsworld's newspapers, causing the cence. This poor piece of scrcenwriting Jackson and Jones, to be sure, arc surrounding tlw movie's titlP !'Pel like 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Wrestling comedy 'Ready to Rumble' a waste of film 
he's buying anothnr cat. So I Smith's "\1allrats," has littln by trash. but ii' that is true. minds to help Jimmy King gPl
By JEFFREY Q. IRISH 

savs to him. 'Walter, what are relevance to the following then, in a round about way, his titln back. Scene Movie Critic 
yo°iJ doing buying another cat? revil,w nf "Heady to Humble," nv1ffy ND·SMC student who King is a drunk, obese and You 're just going to gl't it but it gels the point across has ever attendnd "Boat Club" lazy man who immndiately (pf't 
"One time, my 32 year-old stuek in your butt again.· i\nd that anyone who is over the supports wrnstling. his wife and kids without a cousin Walter got a mt stuck he says to me, 'Brodie, (low age of' 10 and likes wrnstling Wrestling asidl!, tho movie penny after lw lwcaml' in his butt. True storv. It was the heck else am I gonna get has tlrn 1.Q. of a napkin. It is m a y b P I.Im wo rs t to b P famous. You can s1111·ll what embarrassing for my ·relatives tlw gerbil out?' My cousin was till' mosl immature and stupid rPleased tlw plot rooks up and all. but the next week he a weird guy -he also liked phenomenon that has nver nationwidP from lwrP.
"Ready to
did it again! A wet'k later I wrestling." beconrn a multi·billion dollar since "Good As far as thP run into him at thr mall and This quote, from Knvin business. It must be! supported Burger." acting gons. Caan
Rumble"
Two words doesn't cll'liv11r on sum up lhl, the comedic tal· entire onP ent lw showPd as hour and 45 tlw \\'ild widP 
minutns of this ou/ offive shamrorks r c) c e iv P r o I' l'ilm it "Varsity Bluns."Director: Brian Robbins 
sucks. But tht>t:l' is sli 11 a 
Tlwrc was so Starring: David Arquette, bright 1'11tt1r<' much potPntial alwarl of him. 
h O re for a Scott Caan, Rose McGowan 
Arqunttl'. 011 thP 

s 1· r o w h a I I and Oliver Platt otlH•r hand. who comPdy. It is morP l'amous C'ould havl' mad,, l'un ol' !'or his family lhan arting. wreslling and how tlw !'ans should dial 1-800-l-NELD­am all mnatlwads and hicks. ACTINC-I.FSSONS. Hut it didn't. Dir<'l'tnr Brian Hobbins 
The storyli1l(' f'ollows two stnals shot~ f'rom "l!PSl'noir 20-ynar•old losnrs (Scolt Dogs" <1 nd "A Fnw Good ~frn •· Caan and David Arquntt,,) as and scorPs from "i\nwrira11 thny go through lil'c• in thn BPauty" and "Saving PrivatP prof'Pssion of' Pmptyi11g port­Hyan," ynt, soml'how, still o·potties. Thnn OJH' day, tl1Pir makPs a worthlPss moYie. lrnro, prof'nssional wrostlnr Last yPar's hit l'omndy ";\ Jimmy King (Olivnr Platt). Night al the lloxbury" is a losns for llw l'irsl timn nnet is p<'rf'nrt exampln of' how runny fired for boing an "ungratd'ul it can lw to mock nwatheads. drunk who needs to go back "Ikady to H.umblp" !'ails in to tlw trail<\!' to learn his l<\s­that it doosn 't snnm to know s o 11. " Ca a n an d /\ r q u e tlo ' s whether it is making fun of' 
Scott Caan (left) and David Arquette star in "Ready to Rumble," a stupid wrestling comedy 

characters make up thoir wrestling nr promoting it. 
about two guys who try get their hero's title back. 




E 
_,,_ 
Thursday, April 13, 2000 page 15 
MOVIE COLUMN 
In 'The Big Lebowski,' the Dude abides 
It. is not ollnn lhal a film i.ranscnnds its mndium to twcnmt' morp than a fictional talc•. "Tlw Big I.(•bowski" is orw SU('h f'ea­turP: ils rPalm is so rich with l'hara\'.ter that il hPcom1's a univPrSP unto iLscll'. "l.dmwski's" a1,sllwt­ir valw' is or littl1' Gunder Kehoe i111portarn•p lmcausP tlw inhabitants of this 
Scene l\1ol'it> lllliVf'rsP al'P not Critic lllPl'Ply pla~wl b~­arlOrs -lhf'~ do not _ slop lm•athing wht>n tlw final n-Pdits rnlf'. ;\l tlw lwarl of' this i.l'bowski uni\'nrsf' liPs a singlP 111isum!Prsto11d man: Lill' Dude. 0111' ran Pnsilv \\Ti1P him off as ;i dPadbP:11 just as tlwy d;i in \lalibu. Tlw DudP. how­f'\'1•r. is not a nitwit or a lousy bum. nor is lw a sad-assl'd rl'f'ugPP li-!1m·llw '60s; lw is a man in \,·hid1 la1.i1wss nms dPl'P-But this is prl'1·isl'I_\' what makPs him spPcial. Tl11•n· is finally a human who can bring l11111or tu wwmpl11ynwnt Hild 111ak1' apathy an artlitrrn. Orn• has t.ll admirP his 1wn1liar \'in\\ on tinw. tfw \'1-ay days run together and c-alPndars an' ol' no t·onsPqUP!lCP. Tlw Dudt,.s t'Yl'I'\' 1110\·1• is a lt>sson in rl'iax­alion. IIP mi°1b!Ps wound likP a bag of dirty laundry. Pxuding a sense of' Pasi· with the simp!P sln'ld1 of' his back or i11 tlrn shrug of his shoulc!Prs. Dud!' is a dPvotPd friPnd who always for­giv!\S altPr LIH• most lwatPd dispute, and his r<'siliPnt posturing is a marvnlous attribute. l'Prhaps Dud1,.s most admirablt\ skill is his kna!'k for finding valuP in worthless lhings. I lis l'Prsian rnrpl't certainly ti11d the room togPtlwr. but was it worth th!\ trou­b!P that 1\Vl'ntually <'llSUPd'? IIP has so much pridP in a single lloor mvering. the way lw balanc1•s on 01w leg. arms out­sln!tdwd. Pyes studying tlw fabric undnr his foel. .'\!though Dudn accomplishes nothing in lif'i•, lw is oddly succnssful. It is nncnssary to know whv. 1lis dudeness is lilll'd with strands o·r inf'ormation. By 1!:xamining these l;trPLs. w1• can slwd morl' lighl on his naturP. Tlwn, as tlw StrangPr (Sam Elliot) says. 111<t\lW (\Vnryo1w can tak1• comfort in knowing tlw Ilud<· is out tl11•n•. Tlw lludP has a gmrnirw am•ction l'or comforlablt, l'urnitun' and lw nPver mnei.s a foreign spat'(' that he cannot quickly makl' his mm. In many ways. Dud<' is chanwlt>on-likP. possessing tlw natural lal­1•nt to bP('.onrn one with his 1-•nvironment. WhilP nH'1'ting with Jacki1'. Tn•1'horn. Dude adopts tlw Porn King's unspoiled palace. IIr nwlcfs S('amlPssly with tlw orang<' rnurh am! it l'PP!s as though lw is fully stitclwd to thP fabric. Dud1•·s posturl' in the back ol'\.1all(fp's limo is tlw l~SSC'll!'.(' of n·laxation. It lwrnmes impossibl!' to think that tlw limousi1w is not his daily mode of transport. I1,~ drn•s this tinrn and again. rnnsistPntly claiming spacp that almost Ilf'V('r lwlongs to him. Sun·pssli.il limlwring of'tlw body is a nPrPssitv for I lud,, ·s dailv sur\'ival. IIP initi­atPs f'Vf'~-y ll'agw• ganw ~vilh a soothing 
lower back stretch that guarantees sum­ci1mt mohihty. Each morning bi>gins with tlw mixing of a rockt.ail followed by an elfoctive quadricPp routine lhat will ensure the longevity of his bowling career. There 
is something rharming about this body 
language that expruss1!s volmnes in subtln 
motions. 
Tlw Dude\ clothing lino is engineered for romfort. Without Urn rumplt~d gar­nwnts. his gl'Slun•sjust wm~lrtn·t lw tlw sanw. Prrhaps his most important asst't is the arlonwd vintagl' baseball jersPy wilh nond('S(Tipt Asian lf'ttf'ring. Most pnoplP don't rnalizn that llw .lapa1wsl\ man on tile front is a stPndlPd portrait of'Sadaharu Oh. thP Eash,rn l'quivail·11t of BabP Hulh. 
lndnt•d. Dude is a cultur<'d man. On cool days. hP rnmfortably inhabits a thi1·k \\oohin s1,wa1er thal probably kept him ­warm in the early yP,irs while dral'ting tlw original Port Iluron statmn<:nt. 
\'Vr caimot excludl' lhc flimsy jelly san­dals lw won' thin whil1~ protesting Vil~tnam as a rn1'mbcr of !hn Sf'attle Seven. Each tlm'adbare itf!Ill is like the skin off his back -right clown to his Munsingwcar undies. 
DudP suffers misl'ortune at every turn, yet Im is resilient. I tis casualness always prnvails. Three cowar<lly nihilists burst into his private rnsichmce armed with a crickl't club and a marmot. then proceed to rip Dude's bungalow to shreds. An Asian man. known only as Woo. pnes on his carpet whiln the troubled adolescent, Larry Sellers. has the audacity to hijack Dude's rust-colornd car. Old Ducler's place is wrncked. With his m,~jestic Gran Torino ruinnd and a carprt mictcrated upon, the Dude shrugs it off. 
Though saddened by the passage of his bowling buddy, Tlrnoclore Donald Karabotsos (Steve Buscemi), Dude moves on, instilling full trust in the Stranger's Eastnrn wisdom: Sometimes you eat the bar and somPtimes the bar eats vou. Taking the good with the bad, th·e Dude so eloquently summarizes at the end of his journc~; "Strikes and gutters, ups and downs. 
Pm·haps it is Dud(i's selfless dedication to fri1mdship that ddines his heroic personal­ity. Walter Sobrlrnck's (John Goodman) behavior is excessive and his obsession v.-ith Vietnam driVf\S Dude insanP. Together, their intPraction is more like a flmlgling couple than an inseparable pair. Them is. however. something gratifying in watching a padlist intnact with a grizzled Vl'l. Every interaction sends Dude in an uncontn)l!able tailspin but, like a trmi friend. he holds no gruclgPs. Dude survives \.\'a!tf'r's botched hand-off. his pesky Ponwranian as well as Donny's windswept human remains. but he never stays angry and always returns to the Venice Beach bowling leaguP. 
Dude befriends his landlord. Marty, a man struggling to carve his voiCf-l in the Los AngPles art world. Marty is clearly n<'rvous during his da111:p quintd; his unPnviable figurn suffers under mismatching jumpsuit and [loral garb and his somersaults lack the necessary grace. Dude, however. man­ages to stay attentive while Walter rudely discusses a heavy-weight television writer and directions to the In & Out Burger. Although he never shares his notes, Dude's critique will surely help Marty become thn performance artist thai. he strives to be. 


We also cannot overlook the way Dude volunteers his coital services to help Maude (Julianne Moore) conceive a child. Although family life is not on Dude's long­term agenda, he nevertheless donates the most coveted seed in Los Angeles county. 
There's an unspoken nobility in Dude's devotion to life's simple pleasures; rarely does a man take so much pride in things so meaningless. He is certainly excited at the prospect of attaining a small fortune but never is it more important than even a few drops of White Russian. 
When Big Lebowski's goon pulls Dude's arm to an impossible angle, he sacrifices his bowling career for the sake of his bev­erage. lie swallows the pain, adjusts his body, hoists the Caucasian over his head and avoids losing the cocktail. 
:'Jever is Dude more conttmt than when he savors the warm water of his bathtub. The environment is idyllic: aromatic can­dles flicker and a pre-recorded whale soundtrack fills the air. Dude takes a small hit from his joint and releases a sigh of pinned up stress, "/\hhh.... " Of course, the peace doesn't last as Dude's privacy is rudely invaded by three burnt out techno­pop artists and a herbivorous rodent. The short-lived tranquility, however, is Pvi­clence of what truly arouses Dude's plea­sure. 
The most telling commitment to his lifestyle is when Maude tempts Ducln with the physical act of love. Maude's naked­ness is hidden under Dude's robe, and when she unveils herseU'. he remains unmoved by the female form. Bather than jumping at the prospect of coitus. a puzzled Dude says. "that's my robe." Only Tlw Dude could dismiss sex and bestow such importance on a tattered piece of i.erry cloth. 
The Dude's stature is perfectly summa­rized in one glorious image. lie stares into a mirror and surrounding his rellection we see "Time Lifo: Man of the Year." Timm is a certain irony that Dude would be enshrined by such prestigious accolaclPs, but, in a strange way, the honor is rightful­ly his. 
The message is clear: The Dude is the patriarch who reigns over this universe. Maybe only his ardent supporters would agree, but never has there been a man that has achieved so much by doing so little. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and nnt of71w Observer. 
CORRECTION 

in Wednesday's Scene,_ the photo included with the pi-eview of Notre Dame's presentation of "The Love of rhe Nightingale" was incorrect. The photo was actually a photo of rhe Saint Mary's production of "Summer and Smoke" whose pre­


-
view will be running tomorrow. The two photos shown here are rhe proper pictures for "The Love of the Nightingale." 
photos by: MARY CALASH 

p..ige 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 13. 2000 
r 
...-AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Garciaparra, Everett lead Red Sox to win over Twins 
BOSTON an l:'ight-run second inning scoreless innings for the win Texas doubled its output hit a ninth-inning home run l'or 
Nomar Garciaparra and Carl Tues<lav, scored five in the and Mariano 11ivora pitched from last year's playoffs in the a 6-5 win ovnr Minnesota. In EvP-rett, Boston's two best hit­third for· a 6-1 lead. the ninth for his fourth save. third inning, when Cono the series open or Tuesday. ters, are finally acting the part. Josi:' Offerman and narrPn Hiv0ra has convr,rted his last walkod f'our battnrs, including Brian .Johnson's I 2th-inning Garciaparra drovi> in three Lewis singled an<l both .'icorcd 26 save opportunitii>s. David Segui with tlrn bas<'s homer gave Kansas City a 7-5 runs and Evi>rett drovi> in two on c;arciaparrn's double. MikA The pomp of this year's loadP.d. Ivan Bodriguez added win over thP Orioles. At 7-:1. as thr Rrd Sox brat the Stanley singled before O'Leary home opener. which included an HBI single in the inning. the Hoyals are off to their best \linnesota Twins , -3 doubled in one run and Everett the raising of the Yankees· The Yankefls went ahead 4-2 start since 1978. Wednesday night. singled in t'wo. record 2!'ith World Series flag. in the fifth. on an HB! single by Cal Hipken sing!Pd in a run 
Garciaparrn. last year's AL Minncsota made it 6-3 in the was overshadowed by Derck Jeter and tho homer by to movP within four hits of buLlin!{ champion. was 4-for-fourth on a single by Maxwell. Stottlemyrn's announcement Williams, who had been O-for-:~.000, and Mikn Bordirk had 22 with no RBIs in his first six a triple by Cristian Guzman Sundav that he has bone mar­11 against left-handers bd'orn thrnn RR!s for Baltimorn. games, but is 6-for-9 with six over EveretL's head in center row ·cancer. lie began homering of'!' Darren Olivi>r .lose Santiago {2•0) won f'or RBIs in the current series. field and a single by Denny chemotherapy treatment two and singling off Munoz. thfl second straight. night.. 
Everett. who hit .189 in I-locking. Rhea! CormiN days later and was supposed to Cone couldn't hold the lead, pitching two prrfcr·t innings. spring training after being replaced Fassero after the fifth mis.'i the opener. before though. giving up a single to Hipken, who bngan tlw sr'a­obtained from Houston. is 5-and pitchi>d two perfect Tup,sday's game was post­Frank Catalanotto and a walk son with 2.991 hits. flared a for-8 with two homers and five innings before Derek Lowe poned. to Cabe Kapler leading off the single into right field in th!' HBis in the two games with pitched the last two. Stottlemyre, who is rece1vmg sixth. .Jason Grimsley came on seventh, driving in B . .J. SurholT ~1innesota. He's hitting .4-64 !1lf)dication in his rhest and gave up a two-out. two­for his 1.:i7(,th c,trPPr HBI. and has hit in all righ l games through a catheter, was run double to Hustv Greer that moving him pasl .JakP BPck!Py
Yankees 8, Rangers 6

this season. restricted in his duties. Bullpen appeared to go over the right­for 29th on tlrn car1'rr list. One day aftrr scoring right <·oarh Tony Cloninger watched f'ield foncP. First-basil umpirn Hovals startrr i\.far Suzuki
The New York Yankees 

runs in 1 1-3 innings against David Cone warm up and Brian Gorman ruled the ball allo~ed five runs -only two
opened the home portion of the

24-year-old starter Joe Mays in Stottlemvre did not make anv hit tho top nf thn wall and the earned -and live hits in S 1-3
2000 season in familiar fash­

a 13-4 victory. the Hect Sox trips to tho mound. oven when Hangers did not argue. innings.
ion, with Mel Stottlomyre in

spoiled 21-year-old Johan Cone struggled his control in Baltimore scored threr
the dugout and a win over the 


Santana's second major league the third inning. unearnPd runs in thr fourth
Texas Rangers.

start with seven runs in 3 2-3 But Stottlemyre's presence for a 3-0 !Pad aftPr first bas!'­
Tino Martinez's two-run Royals 7, Orioles 6 
innings. was uplifting to the team. man Mike Swr1'nny droppPd
triple in the seventh inning

Jp,ff Fasst>ro O -0) left with a Psperially Cone. who has Ilarold Baines' grounder f'or an
carried the Yankees over 

l{r,v Sanr:hpz hit a thrne-run
7-3 lead after five innings and pitched 11 o I' his 1 4 m aj or error.
Texas. one dav aftl:'r their horn.er off Mike TrornblPv in

got his first win with Boston lca){ue seasons with Hipkon walknd. Charl<'s
pitching coach ·began treat­

sinr,c signing as a free. agrmt Stottlemvrr. as his coach. tho ninth inning and ·the Johnson hit a two-run doublP
ment for cancer. 

after spending last season with Stottleinyre recnived a loud. Kansas City Hoyals. again com­with two outs and Bordick fol­
The Yankees, who have 

ing back in their last at-bat.
Seattle and Texas. where he prolonged ovation from the lowed ,vith an HBI single.
swept Texas in the playoffs the br.at the Baltimore Orioles.

was a combined 5-14 with a crowd -as well as the Baltimore made it 5-0 in tho
last two seasons, rallied in the

,.20 ERA. Hangers -as he jogged onto Baltimore, which led 6-0 in sixth when Suzuki hit Will
seventh inning after third

Minnesota took a 1-0 lead in the field during pregame intro­thn seventh. was still ahead 6-Clark with pitr.h. Johnson
a
baseman Wilson Delgado's 4 in the ninth when Miko

the second inning on singles by ductions. lie wavp,d his hat to doubled and Bordirk follow1\d
throwing error gave the 

'.\1att LeCrov. Corev Koskie and the crowd and appeared Trombley 10-1) walked Gregg with a two-run double off Jprry
Rangers a 6-5 Ir.ad.

Torii Hunter and asacrifice flv un<'omfortable by all the atten­Zaun leading off and Mark Spradlin. BipkPn's hit madP it
Paul O'Neill and Bernie 

· by .Jason :'vlaxwell. · tion. Quinn followed with a double. 6-0.
Williams. whose three-run 

Next up was Sanchez, and lw
Santana (0-1 l allowed the The Hangers, who hit .152 Pat Happ took a three-hittPr
homer gave the Yankees a 4-2 worked the count to 3-2 beforn

tying run in the sernnd on the and scored one run in a three­into the srventh. when
lead in the fifth. led off the sev­

hitting his first home run of tlrn
first of Trov O'LParv's two dou­game sweAp by New York in Jnrmaine DvP hit a lcadol'f
en th with singles off Mike 

bles, a single by E~erett and a last. ynar's playoffs, almost snason. a drivn off the top of homer. reliev1•r Buddy Groom
\1unoz (0-1). Martinez then hit 

tho left-field fence that
sarrifir.e fly by former Twin spoiled the day, taking a 6-5 walked in a run. and SanchPz
a long drive to right-center for 

bounced into tho Orioles
Garv Gaetti. who is O-f'or-10 in lead in the snventh on and Damon hit sacrifice llins.
his third hit of the game. scor­

his hrst season with Boston. Delgado's error and Tom bullpen. Happ allowed thrPn runs and
ing both runners. 

On Monday. .Johnny Damon
Then the Red Sox. who had Evans' double-play grounder. fiv!l hits in six-plus innings.
.Jeff Nelson (2-0l pitched two 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business J,t)' from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m ..tr the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. De1Jline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.111. All classifieds musr be prep.tid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day. including .111 spaces. The Obsen·er reserves the right ro nlir all cl.tssifieds for content without issui11g refu11ds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

TEACHER WANTED: ND/SMC To Miss Kate of Brookfield. 'cause we're all in the mood for a families need teacher for next year He talks of you often, and always melody. and you got us feelin' 
NOTICES to instruct children in home setting. FOR RENT PERSONAL fondly. He loves you very much ... alright Part-time position. Salary/Vacation and wishes he could be with you negotiable. Call 258-9707 Apartment for summer sublease 24/7. Jenna's boyfriend bought her a 
THE COPY SHOP College Park -2 bedrooms. fur-THE COPY SHOP Miss Kate: "Remember what hap-house. Lafortune Student Center nished Lafortune Student Center pened to the boy who suddenly got Store Hours LARCHE HARBOR HOUSE in Call 243-8194 High-Speed Copying everything he always wanted --he My roommate is so super great Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Mid Jacksonville, Florida invites you to a Color Copying lived hapily ever after." Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm year of service creating community B&B Resumes 4 more weeks. I'll take care of him And her professor is a super jerk Sat: Noon-6:00pm with persons who are mentally dis-287-4545 Business Cards and make sure he comes home Sun: Noon-Mid abled. Responsibilities include: Fax Service safe. Until then. take care. MCATS=HELL Free Pick-Up & Delivery! assist in creating a home: develop Nice homes north of ND in good Desktop Publishing -KMJoAH of SMC. Call 631-COPY relationships with members; and area And a whole lot more! Michelle and Julie and Anne Marie We're open late so your order will assist in personal care and commu-277-3097 Prompt Pick-Up & Delivery JLN-will do fabulously on them be done on time! nity living. Requirements include a Call 631-COPY Okay, so my first Saturday night 
desire to live with, learn from. and Rental houses for 4-6 students with date had her head in a bucket all Amy is super awesome relate wilh mentally disabled adults. large rooms. Feel better, Cassie. night ... I can live with it. I under-Benefits include stipend, room. W&D. 291-2209 Dave stand why it happened. I under-Yes. Pedro is a god.
WANTED board. and health insurance and 2 bedroom, 2 bath apartment for Keep working Nell... in one week stand where and what it was from. 
formation in the spirituality and phi-lease during summer session. we will be busting out in CANADA! But why was it black? Hope you Six o'clock on Friday... SUMMER JOB Caregiver; two chil-Iosophy of L'Arche. To apply, con-Close to campus, washer/dryer. Crossing the Border ·oo, take 2 feel better, pumpkin. (i'II spare you the rest) dren, ages 7&8. Mon-Fri,7:30AM-tact Dottie Klein, L'Arche, 700 Call Erin 4-4238 if interested. 3:15PM. Jun 12-Aug 18 Granger. Arlington Rd., Jacksonville, FL But we're missing our third traveler. Senor Jose: hi mom. 272-6107 or 284-3485 32211; (904) 744-4435. LARGE 6 BDRM HOUSE. 2 FULL She'll be tanning in Floricta. From one sexy woof to another ­
BATHS & BASEMENT UTILITIES you II always be my stylin' Latino South Dakota is fun 
INC. Plaid shirt man will miss her. lover! Seeking responsible caregiver for 2 S400IROOM. 247-9808. Ay Curumba 11 Ever seen the world's only corn children Summer server needed Flexible Do you think Mark can handle it? Te Qulero mi amigo. palace? Mon andlor Tues. 7:30-5:30 hours, Great pay. Close to campus. HOUSES FOR RENT: (1) 5-bed---Ginnis -­Transportation e1i1d references nee-K's Grill & Pub. 277-2527. room, $1000/month. (2) 2-bedroom, Stop sleeping on the couch! It's not Have I mentioned that I have the sssary $500/month. WeOII make almost comfy Hey Lauren and Kate and Kristin! best roommate in the world? 631-7051 any changes lo the houses. Call Bill Good luck to us with room picks! 
Student needed for child care dur-at 675-0776 Hey...it's ok, MJWI:road trips are Luv you guys1 Physics tends to make my life mis­
ing summer Granger (near UP always a possibility. erable. Babysitter for 2 kids mall) family needs college student 3 Bedroom Duplez. Appliances, Hey Kelle darling, hope you have a Evenings approx. 4-9:30 Nights to care for 13 yr. old girl and 7 yr. W/D And I love road trips. fabulous day! but biochem is worse vary. old boy. Transportation rewuired. 1 mile from campus. 273-8332 T ransportat1on a must. Must have references, non-smoking Katie Metz. is no longer my valen° it's all CR's fault Please ca11 287-6352 and experience with children. This Summer sublet-beautiful 1 bedroom My throat hurts. But it's 1 am and tine. she does not deserve such 
is a Christian family with profession-fully furnished apartment. Central, we're getting there high status. Plus, her mother Is a i believe in miracles Full-time temporary maintenance al parents and goad references are air conditioning. On Grape road. tractor. 
-
position available Some expen-available. Should enjoy outdoor $330/month or best alter. Call Eric yep ...my roommate ...wondertul ence act1v1ties-tenn1s, swimming, biking. 254-9782. Bed, please! Hey Libby and Julie and Becky and t)ecessary. Please call 272-1441 etc. Can provide some flexibility as Becky, I wish you all luck with the six dances -that's a new record i '.or a confidential interview to dates. Compensation based Need help with a pro1ect? quad!I!! think 
upon expenence. Ccmplete DESKTOP PUBLISHING To my Sweetheart ­Caregiver needed 2000-01 acade· services are available at MM ...... mm! Hello, my cute little Becky of roam silly. rnrc yr, Tues-Tnurs, 7.45·5:45 for 2 Pl&ase contact (~19) 243-1228 alter THE COPY SHOP Sweet Dreams. 2431 young children 6:00 PM for additional information LaFortune Student Center BBSOCYK 631-7765. Transpo & ref. required. or 284·2918 during the day. Call 631-COPY --Handsome Mikey AH' and done. 

page l'l

Thursday, April 13, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

'\ ·-·' ·-~ . ..,:. :·\~~·~f::: -~., ;} ·\~ ;;~\·11 

page 18 The Ob . .e1·ver . SPORTS Thursday, April 13, 2000 
St. Louis looks for another championship 
Associated Preos 
ST. LOUIS 
Fans in .'-It. Louis am forling corkv. Wl;o rnn blamr them'' Thr Blues an' the Lop seed 
rntPring their first-round NHL playoff matrhup against tlrn San Jose Sharks. The Cardinals began the season 7 -1 -their best start since 198& -with a National League­lPading 23 horne runs. All 
of this comes on "ln the 33-year history of championship 
the heflls oJ' the the team, there have Learn -the Hams going l 9 8 2
been a lot of 
from the NPL's Cardinals ­
disappointments, but I
worst team of before the thP 'tJOs to think they're the best I've Hams beat Super l3owl t h C
ever seen. They 're 
champions. Tennessee
well-rounded, they've got
It's no wondr.r Titans 23-16 fans arr: depth on the bench and. in the Super already talking Bowl in
ofcourse. the coaching 
of St. Louis January.
can't be overlooked. " 
becoming the The !Hues first citv to earn have never three · major won the
Phil Downen 
prof1>.ssional Stanley Cup.
Blues' fan 
sports champi­onships in the same vear. 
"I've been saying it for a long time." Chris DeGroat said before the Blues game Wednesday night. "I can't wait to sav 'I told vou so.'"
Hi; girlfrie.nd. Renee Baker. was sporting blue hair and eye makeup in the team's honor. 
"We're obsessed," Baker said. "We got on the computer and researched it. We even made a spread sheet. Trust us, it's never been done before. But that's going to change this year." 
Cooler heads prevail among thos<' leading the troops into battle. Although they like their odds. ,wither Blues coarh Joel 
C) u en nevi 11 e n or Cardin a Is manager Tony La Hussa is promising championship tro­phie_s to join the one named for Vinr.e Lombardi. 
There also is historv to rnn­sider before plans an; put into motion to change the name of thP Gateway City to Titletown. Onlv two cities have ever c-lai;11ed even two titles in the sanw year: Pittsburgh. with thr Pirates and Steelers in 1979: and ;'l;rw York. where the Mets 

.. 
,rnd Jets won in l 9(,CJ. 
"We gel a lot of calls from people wondering when thr last timo a city had three win­nPrs." said Kennv Strode. an executive produce;-and host on KriNS. the city's all-sports radio stalion. "Wo can't f'ind that il's ever happened." 
St. Louis is better known for [lop teams than front-runners. Consider: Since Lhe Cardinals won thfl World Series in 1967. lhe city had only orrn 
though thoy 
went to the finals their first three seasons. It wasn't as remarkable as it seems, ber.ause the NI-IL placed the six new expansion teams in one division while keeping the six established teams in the other. SL Louis was swept in all three finals. 
More rercntly, the Blues have been a model of medioc­rity. While they've qualified for the playoffs a league-record 21 straight years, they haven't made it past the second round since 1986, and haven't been back to the Stanley Cup finals since those early years. 
"ln the 33-year history of' Uw team. there have been a lot of disappointments," fan Phil Downen said. "But I think they're the best I've ever seen. They' rr, well-rounded, they've got depth on the bench and. of' course, the coaching can't be overlookml." 
Brent Bnllrneier. who has been a season ticket-holder for 10 years, agrPed. 
'Tm a hockey nut, and 1 would watch them even if tlwv didn't win." he said. "I do1i-"t want to jinx anything. but I really think this is their year." 
TIMBERLAKE WERTENBAKER 
Directed by Reginald Bai 
Wed., April 12, 7:30 p.m. Thurs., April 13, 7:30 p.rn. Fri.,April 14, 7:30 p.m. Sat., April 15, 7:30 p.m. 
Sun., April 16, 2:30 p.m. 
Playing at 
Washington Hall 
Reserved Seats $9 Seniors $8 All Students $6 
Tlcketi are available at laFortune Student Center Ticket Ol!ice. Mast.erCard and Visa orders call 631"8128 
PRO TENNIS 

Williams joins NAACP boycott 
Associated Press 

IIILTON !IEt\D ISl.t\ND. S.C. 
Scrnna Williams wilhdrnw Crum the Family Circlo Cup on WPdnesday. the biggest sports name to bar.k NA:\Cl''s boy­eott of' South Carolina for fly­ing tlrn Conl'r.derate flag. 
V\lilliarns. the sixth-rank!1d tennis player in thn world, was the first to commit in January to the yearly clay court tournament at Sr.a l'inPs nar.quet Club. But shrl relhought Lhe decision last month when told of the !'lag 
controversy. 

"My decision to noL play in South Carolina was based on a much deepor issue and one that I feel strongly ahout." said Williams, the 18-ycar-old star who last September became the first blark woman in more than 40 vears Lo win a Grand Slam title when she won the U.S. Open. 
The Family Circle Cup opens ~londay. 
The NAACP is leading an Pconomic boycott ol' South Carolina until tlin !'lag is rnmnvcd from thn Statnhousn. Sinrn the boycott'~ Jan. I starl. sporting nvPnts have bcf\n more involvt\d. 
Thn Nnw York Knicks pulled oul of a pre-plavof'f dral't camp in CharlPston: 
USA Track and Field con­d(rnrned the flag bnforc th(~ women's Olympic· marathon trials two months ago in Columbia and severul runnPrs wore ribbons in :rn pport ol' the boycott. 
Penn Statp's baseball t0,am wore r~d armbands in support of the NAACP's position dur­ing baseball games at Winthrop University in Hock llill. 
The National Association or Basketball Coachns jointnl with the Black •Coaches AssociaLion in calling for the NCAA to remove its men's 
baskdball n,gional. srhnd u i(,d for {;rcnnvilln in 2002. ii' tlrn flag still flaps atop the rnpitol donw. 
The 1\tlantic Coast Co111'e1·('nce has asked its schools lo stuy in North Carolina during next month ·s baseball championships in the border citv of' Fort Mill. 
"Wp'rp" dt>light.Pd that Williams has i11dirat1•d lwr solidarity." said Dwight Janws. ()Xecutivn dir(1ctor of the statn NAACP. 
Flag supporters say it hon­ors Soulhern hi,rit.agc; oppo­nflnts say it is a symbol of nwism and slavPry. 
Th(\ state S11nall! bPgan dr.batn Wednesday on what to do with the flag. which was first flown in l9<i2. It can b<' rPmoved only by state law­makers. 
Lisa Thomas. Family Cup tournamnnt dir11r.tor. said slw understands llw prPdicanwnt Williams faced. 

THERE'S 
GREAT THING ABOUT GOING FISHING HERE I THERE'S NO LIMIT. 

THE DELICIOUS BK BIG FISH® VALUE MEAL. After one bite, you'll be hooked on our tasty fish filet topped with fresh lettuce and tangy tartar sauce along with crispy fries and an ice-cold drink. And best of all, this is one fishing spot that never runs out. 

HAVE IT YOUR WAY~

The Huddle -Lafortune Student Center 

Thursday, April 13, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
.....

NBA 
Celtics injure Orlando's chance for playoffs with 95-91 win 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

Danny Fortson had a SP1tson­high 2:1 points and 14 rnbounds \V!'(ltwsday nighl as Llw Boslon CP!tics bc•at Orlando <l:,-9 I to hurt thl' Magir's bid for thP \iBA's final playoff berth. 
Orlando is 39-39, tind with Milwauk.>11. which beat C]PvPiand 101-100 lat.Pr Wr·dncsday. The f\fogic also are two ganws behind Detroit for lh(• sevPnt.h spot after the l'isLOns br.al Miami 'J0-7:t 
John ;\nrnPchi led Orlando 

with  2:{  pDints  and  nine  
n1 bou11cls.  
;\ntoirH'  WalkPr  had  15  

points, 10 rcbDuncls and night assists f'or tlrn Cnltics, who have won r,onsncutive games follow­ing a 10-gamP losing streak that rndPd thdr playoff lrnpr.s. 
Orlando lr-d 91-90 with 4:05 IPl'l wh1111 Boston's Eric Williams tipprd tlw hall away. Walk1•r ran to it and thrrw a basPball pass lo Knnny .\11dPrson !'or a hr<•akaway layup ..\f'lc•r th1-~1agir's Hon \-IPrc1•r m issPcl a shoL. l'aul l'iPrrc• hit a 3-pointer lo givn Boston a 9:1-'JI lrad. 
Orlando rallrd timeout. but Pat Carritv missPd a basl'line ,iumprr. F;irtson missi\d both f'rt'I' throws at th1• oUwr nnd. but lw strippPd MPrcPr of the ball at thr\ otlwr Pnd to spoil Orlando's last l'han('.I'. 
Tlw CPlti1·s ran tlw 24-sPrnnd f'iol'k down lwl"on• missing a 3­poi n lPr at llw shot i-iol'k buzzPr. But Orlando was l<'f't with only IC{ s(•1·onds to try to 1•rasP a fou r-poinl delkit -not Pnough linw. it turnc•d oul. 
Orlando IN! 29-2(1 aftPr the l"irst quartp1· and 53-49 at tlw hall'. 
Pacers 77 Raptors 73 
Toronto f'alLPrPd in the fourth quarl!'r against thP Indiana l'at·c•rs. and produt·.Pd their lm,·t·st s1·01·ing oupul of' till' sc•a­son. TlH• Haptors i-an cPlc~bratP tlwir first playolT bf'rth anyway. 
.lakn H11s1• had 10 of his 24 points in lh1• l'ourth quartf'r and \uslin Croslwr1• had liw of" his I:, in the 1wriod as thP l'acrrs 
thursdav, april 13 
7-10 pm 
bl!al thP Haptors. 
But Toronto, whirh joined the J\jB/\ f'ivc years ago, was assurnd of participating in thP pnstsp,asnu for the first tinrn because the Orlando Magic: lost at Boston on WednPsday. 
Toronto (43-35l is sixth in tlrn Eastern f'rrnferPnce standings. four games ahr.ad of eighth­place Orlando (39-39) and Milwaukee (39-:~9} with four games h~ft for each learn. 
But becausfl the Magic and Bucks play ear'.h other ­Monday at Orlando -Toronto is assured of' finishing no worse than eighth. 
Toronto's n, points were its lowc\st production this season and also rf!presented tlrn fewest against Indiana. 
The victory, combined with Miami's loss to Detroil, gave the PacPrs a two-gamP advantagP over the lleat in their battle for home-court advantage through­out thf" Eastern Conferenc1~ playoffs. 
Indiana plays al Miami on Fridav. 
Vin:•r. Carter had 28 points for Toronto. \<Vhirh lf'd h7-61 with 7;21 to play. Tracy l\kGradv added 19. 
"Tlwv· made big shots at tho Pnd ,u1d wo didn't. A couple of tlrnm we missed. and the rest is histnrv," said Carter, who missed two shots in the final scrnnds. "We'Vfi got to go back to the drawing board and pre­pan' for New York !Friday) and gf\t tlw win we nct\d." 
Hos!', whose strr.ak of 43 ron­seru tive games in double fig­tirl's was snapped when IH' sc·orl'd only nine in Nrw York on Monday, ignitr.d an 11-2 run with two consPr.utivc baskets. 
''I'm just trying lO bP aggres­sivP and not tentative.... The guys got me the ball in position to makP plays," said Hose, who coverPd CartPr most of the night. "Every tinrn I play Viner Carter. I'm the underdog, so I havr. nothing to lose. When I play sonwbody like that I've got to bring my 'J\.' ganw." 
Croshere's baskPt and a 3­pointPr by Jfoggie Miller with 4:~4 remaining put Indiana ahrnd to stay 70-(/). 
Two Hose free throws madP. iL 72-69. and a dunk by Carter 
ation drive 
Lli.'\R\ .IBOLT C\.\Oll)AJES 

with 3:18 Ir.ft. madP it 72-71. The Raptors, ,vho never have won in nine visits to Indianapolis. then missed their liha.1 seven shots from the lield. 
Dale Davis, who contributed 12 points and 14 rebounds to the victory, thre\,v in a short jumper as thP 24-second clock was running down to make it 74-71 with 2:51 to play. 
"I knew thf' shot clock was running down. I saw tbe oppor­tunity to takf' it. I got a fake and spin and I got it to go down," said Davis, who was 6­of-8 from the field. "The main thing in this ball game was our aggressiveness and improve­ment in the second half. We did a betLcr job of screening, block­ing out and hAlping." 
ln the remaining time, Charles OaklP.y missed a jumpPr. DPe Brown missed a 3­point attempt, Carter missed lwo shots and Oakley missed a ~-point try. Antonio Davis, who had 11 points and 13 rebounds, scored the Haptors· only points in the final minutes when h0 made two free throws with 21.8 seconds to go. 
Crosherc hit two free throws with 17.5 left and then made one of two attempts to close the sroring. 
"We've been fighting our­selves for thn past two-and-a­half wePks." said Antonio Davis, who spent six seasons with the Parers before bfling traded to Toronto in August. "They played better than we did tonight. We havP nothing to put our heads down about." 
The game had nine lead changes and ninr tiPs. Indiana's biggest edge was eight points in the first half; Toronto's biggest was seven points. 
TherA were four lead changes and eight ties in the first half. which ended with the Haptors lnading 43-40 after Carter scored their final nine points in the half. 
The Haptors trailed 19-16 after one quarter wlrnn they shot 26 pPrcent from thr field (6-of-231. Indiana shot 50 per­cent in thr period (8-of'-1 (,) with Hik Smits and Hose each scor­ing six points. 
Supersonics 110, 
Timberwolves 83 

Thr Seattle Supersonics shook up tlwir starting lineup by benching Vin Bakrr and two other regulars. and end0d a three-game slide with a win over the Minnesota TimberwolvPs. 
Gary Payton scored 29 points to lead the> Sonics. who had dropped nine of 11 games to fall to the eighth playoff seed in the Westrrn Conference. 
SPattle coach Paul Westphal. upset 1)vcr his team's recent struggles, replaced Baker, Bn•nl Barry and Hubrrn l'atterso11, rrgulars all season, 
with Hashard Lewis, 
Shammond Williams and Cuban 
forward Lazaro Borrell. 

Knvin Garnett paced tho Timherwolves, who had a four­gamf' winning streak hrnkPn, with 18 points. 
Lewis had 18 points. Borrell 10 and Williams eight l'or the Sonics, who also got 20 puinls from Vernon Maxwell and 12 rebounds from I loracf! Grant. 
ThP. Sonics put Minnesota away early in the final quarter. Alwad 74-63, the Sonics got a ~-pointr. r f'rorn Maxwell, a two­handed dunk by Lewis on a pin­point pass from 13orrP]l. and a fast-break layup from Je!1tni McCoy to grab an 8l -63 edge with 1:28 gnne in the period. 
The Sonics' starling five or Grant, Payton, Borrell, Williams and Lewis caught the Timbcrwolves off-guard, taking a lead of 17-12 before VVestphal brought in Baker and Patterson. 
Seattle jumped on top 15-6 in the tirst 5:33 as Payton sank a pair or 3-pointers ,rnd an 18­footer. Thfl Sonics took the lAad for good on Payton's first 3­pointer, with 1:22 gone in the game. 
In the second quarter, thCT Sonics built their lead to 17 points at 54-37 on two free throws by Payton with 37 sec­onds left. 
Baker picked up three per­sonal fouls in the third quarter when Minnesota pulled to with­in 11 points three times. 
Wally Szczerbiak had 14 points for Minnesota. 
Jazz 102 Clippers 93 
Karl Malone's 27 points and sewn rebounds led Utah to a victory over the Los Angeles Clippers, moving the Jazz clos­er to the Midwest Division title. 
Utah leads defending NBA champion San Antonio by three games in the standings with four games left for each in the regular season. Utah plays at San Antonio on Saturday. 
Malone passed 2,000 points for the season. the 12th time in his 14-year canrnr he has reached the milestone -more than any player in NBA history. The Mailman received a stand­ing ovation from the 19,911 at the Delta Center when the rncord was announced late in the third quarter. 
The Clippers (14-64} were without their top two scorers. guard Derek Anderson and for­ward Maurir.e Taylor. who combine to av('rage over 33 points. Anderson missed his second game with back spasms, whilr. Taylor was out with a sore left ankle. 
Eric Piatkowski's career-high :-35 points helped the Clippers stay close. 
Utah completed a four-game season sweep of the Clippers. Los Angeles also dropped its 18th straight at the Delta Center. 
The Jazz· appeared to be in control with a 19-4 run late in the first quarter, building a 29­18 lead. The advantage never slipped below -eight until the fourth quarter when Los Angf\les cut what had been a 21-point lead to one point. But Malone and John Stockton returned to thP lineup to stille the visitors' comeback. 
The Clippers fell apart in the second quarter, shooting 9 pcr­CP.nt (2-for-22) f'rorn the field. Utah's reserves played virtually t!Hi entire second period and pushed thP lead to 50-33 by intermission. 
Knicks 91 Nets 89 
\Vinning the Allantic Division might be possible after all for the New York Knicks. 
Latrell Sprewell scored 21 points and Larry Johnson atoned for two late missed free throws by playing tight defensP on Keith Van llorn on thP game's final play as thP Knicks edged the New Jersey Nets in overtime. 
With Miami losing by 17 points al Detroit. Lhe victory pulled thP Knicks back within 

one gamf' of the HPat in the division standings. 
In essence, the Knicks are actually two games hack since Miami owns tho tiebreaker, but New York has the easier sched­ule playing .Toronto. Cleveland, Detroit and Boston over the season's final week while the Heat must play Indiana, Orlando, Toronto and Charlotte. 
Sprewell scored six of the Knir.ks' first eight points in overtime, but then lost his drib­ble and committed his fourth turnover of' thr night. Consecutive jumpers by Johnny Newman and Lucious llarris tied it at 89-89 with 42 seconds left, and Charlie Ward gave the lead bar.k to the Knicks by mak­ing two foul shots with 35 sec­onds left. 
Elliot PPrry then lost his drib­ble and Johnson came up with tlrn steal. but Johnson missed both l'oul shots with 1;; ser.onds left to give the NP-ts one final chance. 
Tightly guarded by Johnson, Van llorn could only manage an airhall jump hook with three seconds left. The Knicks rebounded and ran out the clock to escape with a victory that was harder to earn than it should have been against a team that was missing three starters, playing the second night of back-to-back games and came into Madison Square Garden with a seven-game los­ing streak. 
Ewing added 18 points, Ward -.. had 13 points, seven rebounds and five assists and Allan 1louston scored 12 points. 
Van llorn led the Nets with 32 points and Newman added 
16. 
The Nets had a chance to win at the end of regulation, but Jamie Feick was unable to con­vert a 3-footer off the glass just before the buzzer. On the previ­ous possession. Ewing had a chance to give the Knicks a lead but missed one of two free throws for an 80-80 tic. 
The Nets led 52-40 at half­time, and Kendall Gill hit a jumper as the shot clork expired 2 1/2 minutes into the third quarter to makn it (11-45. 
Shortlv thereafter the Knirks seemed ·to realize how pathetir, they looked, and they started scrambling for loose balls. grabbing offensive rrbounds and pushing the ball uprnurt. 
Ewing hit two free throws with 2:31 left in the third to start the Knicks on a 10-0 run that pulled them to 67-66 early in the fourth, and thev finallv took their first lead slncp th~ first quarter on a jumpPr in transition by Houston with 9:21 left to make it 70-69. 
Bucks 101 Cavaliers 100 
H.ay Allen made tlrn second of two free throws with 4.9 sec­onds ten to give Milwaukee a victory over the ClrvPland Cavaliers, moving the Bucks into a tie in the racP l'or the NBA's only remaining postspa­son berth. 
Milwaukee (39-391 entered the day a game behind Pighth­place Orlando (39-39) in the Eastern Conference. but the Magic lost at Boston, 9:J.<Jl. 
Both teams have four gamrs I c ft , in cl u d in g an ApriI 1 7 showdown at Orlando. If thev finish with idr~ntical rPcords. Milwaukee would go to the playoffs because tlwy lead th1' season srries 3-0. 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 13, 2000 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
IU investigates Knights' 
incriminating video 
Associated Pross 
INDIANAPOI.IS 
Indiana Universitv offirials don't doubt the authentir.ity of the videotapr showing coach Bob l\nighl ){rabbing a player by the throat although tlwy haw questions aboul it. 
Thr. tapr. aired for the first time Tursday night. appears to support for­mPr player Neil Heed's accusation that Knight grabbed him by the nerk during a prarticr. 
"ThNi>'s no question in our mind that it was Reed," HJ vire president Christopher Simpson told The Associated Pres~ on WP.dncsday.

..,.. 
"There's no question that that was an authentic tape of an IU basketball prac­tice and that that ,.,as NPil Heed and Coach Knigbt." 
Simpson said, however. there was no way to know wlwn tlrn tape was made. Heed transfPrn•d from Indiana in 1997. 
"That's oni=i of our qunstions." Simpson said. "Could then~ have been another incident like this'? No, we tltink this is it. Neil said this wa-; it." 
It is difficult to identify the player from thP grainy tap(', although it dearly shows Knight grabbing a player by thP. front of the nPck, snapping his head backward. Heed. who saw the tape for the first time Tuesday night when it was aired by CNN/SI, said Im was that play­er. 
The tape will bP examirrnd by a two­mall commiitee of Indiana trustees invPstigating accusations by former playPrs of physical and emotional abusP by Knight. 

-
Last month, Heed prompted the inves­tigation by making the accusation against Knight during an interview aired by CN~/Sports lllustrnt1\d. 
John Walda, tho president of thci board of trustees, and FrPderick Eichhorn. a trustee and forml'r prPsi­dcnt of the Indiana Stale Bar AssoGiation, wnre appointnd by IU prnsi­drnt Myles Branct thror W<'Pks ago to investigat0. Herd's claim. Thny went to the CNN headquarters in Atlanta on Tuesday to sec the tape. 
Knight and Walda did not return phone ralls from the AP on Wednesday. and athletic dircclor Clarence Doningcr referred all quP.stions to Simpson. Knight earlier denied r,hoking Rfwd, although he said hH has grabbHd many players to movf' !hem into position on the court during practices. 
On Wednesday, Indianapolis television station WRTV airrd a tapi-ol' a 1992 speech to a group ol' businPss leaders in which Knight dm;cribes how he motivat­nd a player during tho 197f) NCAA tour­nament. 
"You take th,, bottom Lwo lingers. ring fingr.r and little ling-er ol' the strongnr hand. and you place it in the neck of tlw garmrml being worn by the p11rson you want to mutivatt\," Knight said. as audi­enr.e members laughed. "With the mid­dle linger and the index finger of that same hand. you grnb tlw /\dam's applr. and with the thumb. ,vith a little prac­tice, you can control the answers you're going to get from this pPrson." 
Associatp, athletic director Steve Downing, who playr.d for Knight and was the Big Ten's MVP in 1973, told The Herald Times or Bloomington on WE,dnesday that l'ormer assistant coach Hon Felling is the likely source or the tape aired on CNN. 
NHl-

Bourque looks forward to possible Stanley Cup title 
. Avalanche player Ray Bourque may have his last chance at the Stanley Cup title 
Associated Press 
DENVFH 

This is th(~ lime or year that makes Hay Hourque !'C1\l like an 18-year-old roDkin. 
Tlrn adn1nali11P starts pumping and tlw nervous anticipation begins brcw­in~ on tlw evn of' the playoffs. /\ sPnsP or urg11ncy also sl'ts in as tlw :19-year­old Bourqun knows each drop or tho puck could mr.an his last chancr. Lo win the Stanl<:y Cup championship 
that has eluded him for two dnl'adcs. 
"Obviously iL's no secret that I havnn't won 01111 in my career," Bourque said Wednesday as the Colorado Avalanclrn pm• par(icl l'or its opnning­round game against thn Phoenix Coyotl)S. 
"It's pretly much the only thing that is left /'or TTH' to do, so I'm real happy to br. in tlw situa­tion rm in. Wr. have a lot of work ahead of us. but I think peopln really f'er,l good about our team. It's a good feeling to have." 
Bourque. who will be 
"It's pretty much the only 
t.akP morn rhaJH'Ps /,hing that is le.fl for me to offonsivPl:V know­
20th postseason appnarance in 21 years, has run the gamut of nmotions ovnr the past month. As the Boston 
Bruins toill~d through a dismal sPa­son, Bourque sought a tradP that would s11nd him to a rnntend('r. 
Tim Brujns ublignd. trading him to Colorado in a movP that l'orc<:d Bourque to leavP his famil:r on th1· East Coast while h(i pursued a drr.am in thn W<•st. Thn sanif'il'P has paid dividl'nds for Colorado and tlrnir vnt­nran d !' fp nsP man. Th P .-\v ala nch(' went 12-2-1 after acquiring Bourqll(' and forward DavP Andrnychuk and nnter llrn playoffs on an tiight.-ganw winning streak. 
··1rs amazing how thrir conridrncn grPw," l'hoPnix crntPr JPrPmv Hncnirk said, "I think mainlv it wa~ dP.fPnsivnly. Adam 1.-ootP, his ronfi­dencn grnw. llis ability gr,,w wilh BourquP. Tlw f'or­wards arl' ablP to 
do, so I'm real happy to be in the situation I'm in. We hai•e a lot <~(work ahead<~/' us. but I think people really feel good about our team. It's a good feeling to haue." 
Ray Bourque Colorado Avalanche player 
ing thPrP·s a llall of' FamP guy right bPhinrl tlwm." 
Hornick and tnammalP Knith Tkachuk will S('(' a Io t o I' Fo o t(' a n d BourqtH' ovl'r thP nnxt six davs as Colorado pi.ls its top del'PnsivP duo 
against l'hoPnix's 
most dangProus scoring linl'. Foote has alwavs 
bnP n r o n s icl (' n;d 
making his 

one ol' the Avalanclrn's top dPl'PnsP­men. and has blossomed alongsid!' Bourque after overcoming initial JH)l'­vousnnss about playing with on<' of his rol(\ modPls. 
a, DO YOU LIKE APPLES??? 
-CAMPUS VIEW HAS LARGE SPACIOUS ROOMS, IS CLOSE TO CAMPUS, AND COSTS LESS THAN MOST OF THE
-

-COMPETITION. 
: HOW DO YOU LIKE THEM 
I APPLES??? 
I 
CALL CINDY TODAY AT 272-1441 TO SET UP 
AN APPOINTMENT TO SEE YOUR NEW HOME 
FOR THE FALL. 
Thursday, April 13, 2000 The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
Celebration of the "Via Cruels" (Way of the Cross} on Good Friday, April 21 Chicago's Hispanic Pilsen neighborhood The cost is $5.00. Transporation and food provided. Sign-up at 103 Hesburgh Library-'beadline April 19 
Senior Retreat #3 Friday-Saturday, April 14-15 ~•.. St. Joe Hall 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #61 Friday-Sunday, April 14-16 Fatima Retreat Center 
Palm Sunday Sunday, April 16 
Campus Bible Study Tuesday, April 18, 7:00 pm Badin Hall Chapel 
Outdoor Campus-wide Stations of the Cross Tuesday, Apnl 18, 7:00 pm Grotto 
Confirmation: The Chrism Mass Tuesday, April 18, 7:30 pm St. Matthew's Cathedral 
A Way to Peace, or Peace is the Way? Catholic Perspectives on ROTC presented by Pax Christi Speakers: Todd David Whitmore and Fr. Michael Baxter, CSC Refreshments and small group discussion will follow 
the lecture Wednesday, April 19 7:30 pm Center for Social Concerns 
Graduate Student Bible Study Group Wednesday, April 19, 8:00 pm Wilson Commons 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer Wednesday, April 19, 10:00-10:30 pm Walsh Hall Chapel 
Thursday of Holy Week Morning Prayer, 9:00 am Mass of the Lord's Supper, 5:00 pm Tenebrae, 11:00 pm 
Thursday, April 20 Basilica of the Saored Heart 
Fifth Sunday of Lent 
Weekend Presiders Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, Aprl! 15 Mass 
5:00 p.m. 
Rev. Peter D. Rocca, C.S.C. Sunday, April 16 Mass 
10:00 a.rn. 
Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C 
12:00 noon Rev. James M. Lies, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings for This Coming Sunday 1st Reading Is 50: 4-7 2nd Reading Phil 2: 6-11 Gospel Mk 14: 1-15: 47 
THE HOLIEST OF WEEKS 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 

Even though we are baptized, what we constantly lose and betray is precisely that which we received at baptism. Therefore Easter is our return every year to our own baptism, whereas Lent is our preparation for that return -the slow and sustained effort to per­form, at the end, our own "passage" or "pascha" into new life in Christ... Each year Lent and Easter are, once again, the rediscovery and the recovery by us of what we were made through our own bap­tismal death and resurrection. Alexander Schmemann 
I don't remember the day when I decided to be a Catholic. I don't mean the day of my baptism in the first few weeks of my life. I didn't decide that; my parents did. I remember long ago envying those who converted·10 Catholicism because it occurred to me that they had a choice, and I didn't feel as though I had. Until I realized that the choice was mine, to claim it or not -to profess and live my Catholic faith -or not. I don't remember a particular day on which I said, as an adult, I want to be a Catholic, I want to follow Jesus. And yet I have, most assuredly, and I do. Somewhere along the line, the renewal of my baptismal promise became my own. Somewhere along the line I realized that I do believe in the God of Jesus Christ and in the God in Jesus Christ; call it grace, or bum luck, all I know is that I believe. My faith in this God is so real that I want to cele­brate it, even the worst of it, because the worst of it, the crucifixion and death of Jesus, is, paradoxically, the best of it. Our very salva­tion is tied up in it. We commemorate this great salvific event during Holy Week in the Triduum. 
Much can be said about the Triduum, those days which embrace the Paschal Mystery. "Triduum" in the Latin simply means "a space of three days," but as it is used in the Christian tradition it is meant to signify the three days prior to Easter Sunday: Holy Thursday, Good Friday, and Holy Saturday. The words of the tradi­tion and of the present liturgical books convey the intensity and unity of the hours around the Vigil. These days call us to fast and pray, to keep watch, and to enter into the holy mysteries of Christ's passion, death and resurrection. We come face to face with the very reality of our own lives, our own dying and rising. Our oneness with Jesus as members of his body, our oneness with each other, and our oneness in the death and resurrection of Jesus is ritualized in the liturgies of the Triduum and realized in our participation in them, and in our very lives as Christians. 
It is during the Easter Vigil that we as a community initiate and welcome into full communion those who have, as adults, chosen to join the Catholic Church. They have been preparing for the past several months through the Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults (RCIA). They will be baptized into the Catholic faith, drawn into this new family by their own choosing and by our welcome. I would urge you to keep these "first-timers" in your prayers during these days. 
.These are important days for all of us. Days during which each of us stand alone before God to renew our commitment. It is an important opportunity for us as adult Christians to sa·y yet again, "Yes, I believe!" It is an opportunity for us as a community as well to stand side by side in our shared commitment to live the call of Jesus, to rededicate ourselves to that call, and to build the Kingdom togeth­er. Please join with me in the days ahead in celebrating the glory and greatness of these days, whether it be at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, the Church of Loretto, a residence hall chapel, or at your home parish. We join with the whole Church not only in remembering the events of Jesus' passion, death and resurrection, 
but, as the Body of Christ, we ourselves partake in them even now that they might transform our very lives. 
-
(l\MPUS~INISTRY 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 13, 2000 

--B-ball Bookstore Results for 
continued from page 28 
good showing.·• Forces of Evil. which featured five 

Wednesday April 12, 2000 
mrn who insisted they were Dr. Klaw. Shredder, Skeletor. Gargamel 

Demon Rum def Sibling Rivalry (21-19) 
and Destro. went for alley-oops much of the gamo and did manage to throw 

Milan Miracles def. Team 344 (21-2) 
a few down in the winning effort. 

Iverson def. Moses adn the burning bush (21-9)
"We would like to thank Satan today. his dark bounty led us well. 

Untouchables def. Mathematically Eliminated (21-8)
and we'd like to see more dunks out of Shredder. " "Dr. Klaw" said. "We 

John Tesh Live def Potent Potables (21-5) 
settled the agP-old debate of evil over 

Criminal Nagliganca def. Tightie Whities 
virtue today." In only a slightly morP competitive 

Shock the World def. Darth Minions (21-9) 
contest You Will Beat Us delivered as nromised as they fell 21-12 to 

Off tha Heezie def. The one man band (21-19) 
tw.rdcore Strokers, a team made up 

Fourty Ounce def. The Donkeys (21-19) 
of St. Mary's basketball players. The live'-man squad of Toby Bi0bl, Travis 

Ponchelli's Pimps def. The PW RA's:We off Doodie (21-16)
Deschamps. Tom llaight, Joe Essner 

Emmet Day def. You don't want to know (21-19) 
and Jim 11yan. grabbed plenty of' rebounds. but also found creative 

Disgusting crack habit def. West quad Killahs (21-6)
wavs to miss three-footers. 1-Jardcore Strokers. comprised of' 

The Cincinatti All-Start def. We've scored more often than Dave's team (21-9) 
Anne Blair, Elizabeth Linkous. 

Nylon Strokers def. T earn 332 (21-2)
Kristen Matha. Shaun Russell and Charlottn Albrecht came decked out 

Hardcore Strokers def. You will beat us (21-12)
in numbered jersey's and brought a full crew including water girls, train­

Team 297 def Thats Dr. Geek to you (21-16) 
ers and strength trainers. On the 

Everybody sucks but Messina def. Nix/On you like lice 
('Ourt, they usPd some nicn passing and a good transition game to over­

Dr. Deponent and the Extenders def. Daddy's worst Nightmare (21-6) 
come the sfwmingly overmatrhed men. 

Amish Midgets def. eatmebait.com/Geoffs Punch (21-15) 
"We feel kind of disappointrd. We 

Pierogi def The Boozer Bunch (21-9)
tried; we just ran out of gas. They were the bettf~r tnam: that's what 

Freshman MOB def. We're all about scoring (21-5) 
happens." Byan said. "Basically we knew we were gonna Jose, the ques­

3 pimps, A fairy and Dulac def. Sweaty Bulse (21-14) 
tion was how close of' a game we 

Soup and 4 non-asses def. Four Chumps and A national champion (21-17) 
were gonna get it to. The spread was six; we didn"t cover it, so we're a lit­

All of the following are disqualified def. Do we get a point for being sensous? 
tle disappointf'd on that." 

"We came in and we were like, 'OK. The Chauncy Pieces def. Dead Sexy Beotches (21-11) we're playing guys,' so we didn"l 
If you think she can wrestle, you haven't seen her box def. Flannel Pajamas (21-9) 
know if we'd win," Linkous said. "But then we heard about the competition Tall where it counts/The Blue ballers def. The G.O.P All-stars (21-9) and we playPd OK." 
Passing Aggressive def. The Raptor and his brood/2 football players and 3 guys that will 
Note: 
never score (21-14)
. The ESPN Sportscentcr segment 

JOSE CUELLAR/ The Observer 
featuring Coach Matl Dohcrty's Bookstore game. previously sched­uled for April 15 has lrncn moved to Saturday, April 22 at 9:30 p.m .. 
:S ::0 
..0 
C: ~ 
CD 

Global Health Initiative and Lyons Hall present:
~ 
~ 
ts :::, ·c: &r
,::::, 
N 
LOW
.r::. ~ 
.!:l ii1 
:::, :::, 0
C: 
I 
CD
::E 
<
.s 
16"
-c: 
w 
:::, 

Miles for Medicine
co ii,.
STUDENT 
!I 

SK Fundraiser Walk/Run
!AIRFARESI :::, 
E ·::: 
0 II> 
.c 
ii} 
~ ~ 

Requested $10 donation at sign ups or at the run
0 
C: Europe •Africa •Asia •South America :,; 
Cl>
rel 
Ql More Than 100 Departure Cities! i ~ 
.c 

Proceeds go to medical missions in Haiti and Ecuador
C c:: 
~ ~ 
(_) Eurailpasses •Bus Passes •Study Abroad
0 0 
:::, 
Cl) s:: 
(.) 
z II> 
a:c.. 
1/1
·;:; 
OJ
rf. DI 

Thursday April 131\ 4:45 at CSC
i ­
<D
ec:: student
C: 
0
l5 :::, :::,
• universe a 
0 
•corn II> 
C: ~ 
'O 0 IT"S YOUR WORLD. EXPLORE IT. )> 
:$. 
, 12th
C
,:, < 

Sign ups: April 10th, 11th 
...J 
C­
00 
::r
Cl DI
m :::, 
~ (D
(ti (I) 

5-7pm at La Fortune, NDH and SDH
en O' 
C:
www.StudentUniverse.com :::, 
rel ~ 
E 
:.:J <D 
en a: 
~ 
:;;: :r 0 
:::,
en

' 
0 co 

Free T--shirts for first 25 male and 25 female finishers
800-272-9676 CJ 
C: 
Cl) 
:::, s 
:::,
co co 

Thur~day, April 13, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 

Football 
continued from page 28 
TPxas A&M. 
"I think I tw!'cl to improvP on my pass blocking." Fain11 said. "'That's mv main concf'rn Bllt that'll mm;, with Pxp1•ri1mn· and good coarhing from Coach lllavP.] B11rlwly. I'm just trying to bo patiPnt and I'm looking forward to gt•tting bPltPr." 
Whi!P tlw f'irst tnam o!Tnnsivc linP SPPms to bn intact. narh play­r>r \\'ill bP looking oVPr his shoul­dPrs quite• a bit this spring. Davie has strPssPd that tlw startnrs urc·n·t writ.tPn in stonP and tlw compl'tition will bn intPnsn this 
spring and sunmwr. 
Snan Mahan and Kurt Vollers both mack starts at tack!(\ while Hob Mow! and Hvan Scarola opPIH'd at guard di1ring thP '<)9 nunpaign. Tlwy will bP looking to catch tlw IWP of tlw c·oarlws and P1lrn a spot·in tlw tn·1wlws l'or thn Irish 1wxt sPason. 
"II starts up front with the oll'c•nsiw li1w and this is probably the> most PXpPriP111·pd ol'fonsivP li1w as f'ar as nurnbc>rs ol' players that haw playc>d in ganws since l'w bnnn lwrn." Davi<' said. "Wr, should haw a lot of compntition at Par h position and wr shou Id haw dPpth." 
We didn't become Fortune• magazine's America's Most Admired Company* by accepting the status quo. We got there by hiring and training graduates with the confidence and courage to think in innovative and revolutionaryways. 
No other corporation can match the diversity of opportunities at GE. Because we have small company attitudes with large company strengths, we set no limits, no bonndaries. You can move from industry to industry, discipline to discipline, and never leave GE. 
We're a leader in every business we compete in, and we're looking for leaders like Alphie who will take us even further. Start your career byvisiting our website now. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
• Lear~ about.us at •: 
www.gecareers.com ,·. 


SOFTBALL 

Irish shutout Butler in doubleheader 
the tPam is doing," said
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
pit.clwr Jennif'Pr Sharron, "I 
Sporrs Writer 

thought we playPd rPally well. Wo came out and domi­The Notre Dame sof'tball nated offonsivPly and set th(1 
t11am, af'ter mov­ing up to No. 18 in the USA Today/National Fastpitch C o a c h e s Association poll. shutdown Butler, 7-0 and 8-0. in a Wednesday don­bleheader. 
The Irish stand in first in the Big East with an overall record of 31-9 and 5-1 in conference play. Tht-\ Bulldogs, who haven't 

scored a run in their past seven games, fell to <J-26 with the two losses. 
"I can't P.mphasize how pleased l am with how great 

GE CFO Keith Sherin to Conduct Strategy Session with MBA Students 
April 14, 2000 ll:00AM-12:30 PM 
Jordan Auditorium 
Keith Sherin (ND '81), Senior VP & ChiefFinancial Officer of The General Electric Co., will conduct a strategy session with students from the MBA School's Strategy Course. This session is open to the ND Community.. .f1lease join us! 


We bring good things to life. 
GE Aircraft Engines• GE Appliances• GE Capital Services• GE Corporate Research and Development• GE Industrial Systems GE Information Services• GE Lighting• GE Medical Systems• GE Plastics• GE Power Systems• GE Supply• GE Transportation Systems• NBC "3/1/99 
tone for b o t h

"As a pitche1: I know it's 
games."

important to have a Sh a r ­
strong defense behind me ron, thn Big East
and there's no other team 
pitcher

I'd rather have behind me. 
of' th11 I wouldn't want to trade w c e k. struck­
any ofour players for 
out 10 

anyone else in the dioi-w hi IC sion. holding Butler lo just two
Jennifer Sharron 
hits for Irish player her 16th 
win of 

the sea­son. Sharron. who struckout 19 in 11.1 innings while allowing two runs last week. also earned her 11th shutout for the vear. 
Sophr;more .l<mnifer Kriech and Melanie Alkire started the Irish offense, scoring on HBI singles in the first befnn~ Notre Dame grabbed three more runs in the second. Freshman i\.lnxis Madrid earned another Irish run on a pitching error in the l'ourth beforn Jarrah Myers tripled and then scored on a doubl!~ bv Danin.J.le Klavman. 
·Krir.ch kicked off game two action !'or tlrn Irish with u double bP.forn scoring on an HBI single by frPshman i\.ndrr.a Loman thn first. Madrid, Sharron nnd KriPch combined two singles and a double rnspert.ively to drivri in three more Irish runs in the SP.cone!. Alkire singled and scored in the third. l\1yers lrnmPrnd in thP lil'th to send in two runs while HebPcca Eimen scori·d on a double by Alkirc in th<' sixth to send the Irish honw rarlv. 
"As a pitcher. I know it's important to have a strong defense behind nw and there's no other team I'd rathpr have behind nw." Sharron said, "I wouldn't trade any of our players for anvone else in the division." 
·i'he Irish look to pick up anothrr win todav as thnv f'acn lkPaul in a do.ublrlrnacf­11r. ThP Blue Demons. who compnit1d in thn 199 1) CollegiatP World Series. cur­ren ti v stand at 15-14 and have ~-on five of' the last six games ngainst Notn· Danw. Ganrn time is set. f'or 3 p.m. at Ivy Field. 
Got 

sports? Call 
1-4543 

f ­
i 
p:ige 24 

The Observer . SPORTS 
HOCKEY 

Galvin, Gill, Globke sign letters of intent 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame hockey team has signed defonseman Tom Galvin and righthanded forwards Aaron Gill and Rob Globkr to national letters of intent during the spring signing pPriod, hPad roach Dave Poulin announred Wednesday completing a promising freshman rlass for the 2000-2001 season. 
Globke is the third current mem­bAr of' the USA !Jockey National Development Program aucl the eighth in thP. last thrne seasons to sign with the Notre Dame hockey program, joining defensemen Neil Komadoski and Brett LPbda. who signed with the Irish in the fall of 1999 period. The developmental program is basPd in Ann Arbor. Mich .. with the Cnder-18 National Team rompcting in the United States Hor.key League (USHL), in addition to playing various international tournaments. Notre Dame is the onlv school to sign three-plus players from the 1999-2000 U.S. team (Ohio State and Harvard both signed two). 
All f'ivr of NoLrP Dame's signers spent the 1999-l000 season playing for teams that compete in tho USI!L's eastern division, with the 
U.S. team finishing first. Waterloo third and Rochester fourth in the seven-team division. 
"We likP the balance of this class and they 'Certainly will be expected to contribute, because hockev is a sport where your freshmen h;i.vc to play a role." said Poulin. whose squad is set to lose eight seniors to graduation following a l 999-2000 srason that vielded a l 6-8-8 final rnord and a-trip to th0 semi-finals P'.. Central CollegiatP 1-lor,key 
iI 

-.~-,~+-;~T­
-~-·~ 
p;~;,.:;;~=~j ~ ""' 
Association postseason tournament. 
"It's important to rPmPmher that we won't necessarily be replacing SP.ninrs with frr.shn11'n and that our program is at a stage whoH we don't hav.1 to do that type of instant n'\placenrnnt. We obviously are ruri­ous to see what level or contribu­tions these freshmen make next sea­son. but it's morn important to ser. our veterans elevate their games and st.ep into those hy leadership roles.'' 

had 5G-21A in 52 g-ames in '98-'991 and is a 1998 grad uatc of' Canterbury Prep in New Milford, Conn .. which also produced four­year Irish starting goaltender Matt Eisler , '981. 
"Tom Galvin is a very gritty and complote defonseman who ha5 scv­end years of junior hockey experi­enre." said l'oulin. "He is sornr.what of a unique player bP.causc he is a VP.ry strong defonsivo rlefr.nseman 
but also has excelled on 
Galvin was the offensive end of the
"We like the balance of 

named a ser,ond icP. and on Urn powor
this class and they

team USIIL all­play -which is a role star. after finish­certainly will be expected that W<' exrrnct him to ing as the sec­continue at Notr0
to contribute, because

oncl-leacling scor­D,rnrn."
hockey is a sport where 

er among Gill played three s11a­dcf'enscmon in your.freshmen have to sons with Hochester in the 14-team his lwnrntown, totaling
play a role." 

IPague with 42 103 career points • rcgular-scia.son including tPam-bnsL points (9G-33AI, Dave Poulin totals as a cnnter this S(irund only to Notre Dame head coach season in goals (2(i) and 
the 48 posted by 
Creon Hay's Jeff 
Finger. Thr 5-10, 
190-pound righthander was vott>d tPam MVP and played in all :iX games while helping Waterloo post a record of 28-26-4. His srmcial teams contributions included five power­play goals and he helped Watorloo rank fourth in the USIIL f'or pow<'r­p Iay pct. (.193) and seventh in pr.natty killing pct. f.825). His other season statistics included (,2 penalty minutes and one game-winning goal. Tho Waterloo program also pro­ducl'd former Notre Dame defense­man Mark Eaton (l 997-rJ81. who signed with Philadelphia us a J'rcc agent and has scr.n tinw with the Flyers this sP.ason. Galvin spent th<' past two seasons in Watnrloo !he 
""f?~--­
=-L2---~
aritg ~ = ~ 
... 


assists 123) in 55 total 
games Thr (i-0. 180­
po und tram captain play11d in t.hn miuseason USHL all­star garnr• and rPcrivPd tlw USIIL's prestigious Curt !lammer Award, prr.sented to thn "most gnntlemanly playPr both on and off tho ice" !Eaton was the ·97 redpicnt of the award). Voted tr.am f\1VP Gill rnnkPd second on the tr.am with seven powor-play goals and helped Hoch0stPr rank eighth in the USIIL with a .175 pow0r-play pct. lie scornd or assisted on 32 pct. of his tnam·s goals whilt' tying l'or first in the USliL for shorthanded goats (5) and Lying for sernnd in tlrn league with sev0n ganw-winning goals (hP also had throe l'irst goals and 4:3 penalty min utc1s). 
Thursday, April 13, 2000 

BASEBALL 
Irish pitcher nruned rookie of the week 
Special to The Observer 
Notr11 Dame l'rnshrnan righthandnd pitclwr .J.P. (;agne has been named tlw Big Fast Confernncn rookiP of' tlw wnrk. al'ter an impressive victory as th0 game on<' startnr in tlw 
/\pril 8-9 snrins ver­sus Boston CollngH. 
Cagnr was movnd into thn rol<> of first­game starter on April 
8. al't.nr the BC series shif'tncl lo a double­hoadnr on thc1 sncond day Idun to wpather 


conditions). Gagnn Gagne rr,spondPd to thn r:hallnngr by sr.attering six hits and l'our walks ovPr six innings in the 12-l victory, allowing 01111 un1•arnc-d run whilP r('c:ord­ing thrc1e strikeouts ancl six groundouts. 
Gagne-who tossed SI\Vl'n strong innings in th(J 9-2 win at Connnctirut on April 2­has won all !ivP of' his dc•c:isions. bncom­ing tlrn first Notrn Damn pitclwr sincP 1996 (Christian Parhr) to opPn a sPason :i-0 and the first f'reshman to do so sinrP the 1990 tand(1m of Pat Lnahv and Al Walania both started :i-0 · 
His other 2000 statistics includn a 2.4:i EH/\ isnrond-bnst on thP team). 17 strikP­outs, night walks and :19 hits allowPd in 33 innings, with ninP appnaranrc•s and four starts. c;agrw had yPL to rPcord a wild pit<'.11 or hit battl'r until tlw BC ganw (\-\ hr1n hP had onC' of Pach}. llis ninl'­inning avnragPs inrludP just 2.2 walks (fifth-brst on tlw !Pam). 

The ~otre Dame Lal-V School ~atural Lal-V Institute presents 
.,,,
,,,. 

MC)ral Truth and thE3 CC)rr,rr,C)n 
GC)C)d C)f PC)litical SC)CiE3ty 
ThU1rsclay ancl Friday.. A.pril "13-"14-.. 2000 
Ne>tre Dame Law Sche>e>I Ce>UIrtre>e>m 

4 p.m_ C:<>NC:EPT <>F PUBLIC: IIVl<>RALITV 
Robert P-George McCormick Professor of Jurisprudence Princeton University 
APPROVED FOR POSTING 
PUU.OATE 
APR 15 2000 STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE OAUE 

Friday. A.pril ... 4., 2000 
9 a.m. FREEDC>IVI ANDTHE VULNERABILITY C>F 'VIRTUE 
Peter Berkowitz George Mason University School of Lavv 
"110:30 a-m­
lVIAKING LAIIVS C>N IVIAKING BABIES: ETHICS. PUBLIC: PC>LICV.. AND REPRODUCTIVE 
TEC:HNC>LC>GV 
Joseph Spoerl St. Anselm's College 
"I :30 p_m_ 
PUBLIC: IVIC>HALITV ANDTHE IVIC>DEHN SUPHENIE C:C>URT 
Christopher VVolfe Marquette University 
3:00 p.m. 
PUBLIC IVIC>HALITV AND PC>RNC>GRAPHV 
Harry Clor Kenyon College 

Co-sponsored by the Olin Foundation 
Thursday, April 13, 2000 The Observer . SPOKfS page 25 
MEN's TENNIS 
Irish strength tested in recent grunes with top teruns 
Bv RACHEL BIBER Spmrs \Vrircr 
If' adu•rsily builds strnnglh, than tlrn Irish should bi' :ls strong as stl'rl. ACler !'acing fiw Top-2:i lt•ams in LhPir last sevrn rnatclws and thrno Top-10 tnams in thoir last live matclws, tlw 29th-rankl'd Irish m1•11·s tl'nnis tnam is sd lo takl' 011 anothl'r national powl'rhousc' whPn th1w lrav<1l to Ann Arbor on Thursdav to tc;ke on the 26th-rankl'd Michigan w;ilwrin0s 
Notn· D,rnw sul'frrP.d thn,r: straight loss­C'S at thn hands or highly rankP.d North Carolina. Duk<• and Trixas to fall lo 9-8 on tlw snason. Tlw Irish haw not picked up a win sincP its :i-2 viclorv ov1\r thP UAB Bl,Lt.Prs on \1arc:h 18. • 
··1 bl'!irw that rnak1•s vou brtt1•r." Irish lwad f·oal'h Bob l~avliss ·said ..., talked to tlw lnam about it. \\'lwn you pul iron in tlw fin~ it gPls snl'L. and when it hardr.ns it bPcom<'S slcPI. That's the analogy w,~:re using wilh our LPiUll -we·ve bP<rn teslnd and wc'vp r<'ally held up prPUy well and l think v\'(~·v,· bn,'ll unlucky not to hav<, won mon' of' llwsP rnatclws. So it's limn l.o slart rPaping thP lrnn<'l'it.s ol' lhf' cnmpntitiv<i srlwdulP that w<''w playPd." 
Tlw Irish will lw li>rrPd to shul'flt' tlrnir rPgular lirwup against tlw \VolvPrinns bPraus<' ol' tlw absPnf·e ol' Javinr Taborga who is out with sorl'nt'ss in his wrist. Taborga has Lrntnwd with Aaron Talarico al No.1 doubl('s all season to amass a I 5-7 rl'rnrd and a No. :rn ranking. Bayliss is rnn lidP.nt that snniors Hyan SachirP ;rnd Tri'nl l\1il1Pr will bP abk to fill in. 
.. \\p'v<1 brought TrPnt and Ryan up to orw doubl<'s." Bayliss said. "They'vr done awfully wf'II at No. 2 doubll's and WP think th1•1 arP good Pnough to play onP and hold their own." 
Miller and Sachirn have ar,cumulated a 12-8 record on thn ynar at No. 2 doubles with wins in lO or their last 13 matches. Bay.liss plans to pair Talarico with Mati Daly to lake the spot of Miller and Sachirc in thr No. 2 position. 
T<'nth-rankrid Sachirn also (!'ads the Irish in the singles lineup. and will most likdy match up against th11 WolVfirine's 68th-ranked Matt \.\'right. With four more wins, Sachire would bncomc the first Irish player under Bayliss to compile at least 30 singles wins in all four years of play. Ile currently stands at 26-9 on the year, and has won 36 of his last 43 dual singlPs rnatchns at No. l. 
Michigan hobbles into the r,ompctition against the Irish artnr suffering two close loses to Big-Ten foes Indiana and Purdue and falling to 9-G. while its No. 1 singles pluyrr Wright recovers from a bar,k injury. 
Thn Irish will look to take advantage of the faltl'ring WolveriJws, who fell from No. 20 in the rankings lo No. 26. by bringing an offensive style of attack to the court. 
"They're all a littln bit slow," Bayliss said. "So one of the koys will be to br, able to play up in the court lo take advantage o!' llwir lar,k of speed." 
Notrr Damfl and Michigan will meet for th<' :i9th time in history, with the Wolverines lrading the all-time series 39­11). llowever, the Irish have beaten Mkhigan in lO of the last 11 meetings, induding a 6-1 vktory last year in South Bend. 
After their match up against the Wolverines. the Irish will close out the reg­ular spason at 49th-ranked Ball State on Saturday. Notre Dame has won 26 of 31 meetings against Ball State, including 11 straight wins over the Cardinals. 

WOMEN'S TENNIS 
St. Mary's ends winning streak with 5-4 defeat 
By KATIE MCVOY 
Assistant Spuns Ediwr 
The Saint Mary's tennis team snapped its live-match winning streak with a dose 5-4 loss to Calvin Collrgo WP.dnesday night. The 13ellcis cxpectP.d tough competition From the Knighl<; on their home courts, but thr~ Belles were not expecting to lose. 
"They !Calvin! played really well." frnshrnan singles player Lindsay Mollan said. "We were expecting them to be a tough match. but not this tough." 
"We were a little overconfident com­ing into the match," senior No. 1 sin­gles playPr KatiP. Vales said. "Being 15-l we hadn't had very many chal­lenging matches, and we just weren't rAady for this." 
Saint Mary's No. 1 and No. 2 singles players, Vale:; and Natalie Cook dropped their matches to their Knight opponents. Vales won her first set, but lost the next two .in a dif'fkult loss to Calvin's No. 1 singles player. 
"I got really tired during the match," Vales said. "I hadn't oaten all day. and I just ran out of energy." 
The Belles rer,overed in No. 3 and No. 4 singles, winning both matches. Senior Becky KrPmer and sophomore Annie Knish both won their matches in three sets. 
The doubles team fared slightly bet­ter than the singles. The No. 1 dou­bles, Vales and Knish, and No. 2 dou­bles teams, Kremer and Cook, won their matches. 
Vales and Knish got off to a slow start in their matr,h. They were down 4-1 in the first set. but camP. bark and won that set 7 -5. With tho confidence of that win, thny took the second set 6­
3. 

"Wp, were slow coming out and made of lot of unforced errors." Valr,s said. "But wo came bar,k and won." 
It wasn't a good day J'or the fresh­men of Saint Marv's. Mollan. No. 5 sin­gles, and Trisha ·Jones, No. 6 singles, lost their matches. The third doubles team of freshmen Vir,toria Cox and Elisa 11yan dropped their matr.h the Calvin team as well. 
Saint Mary's attributl's much of its loss to preparation. Because of' tlw unseasonably cold temperatures, the Bolles worn unable to practice as often as they would have liked to this week. 
"We wenm't very well preparP.d this week, a lot of people weren't ready.. Vales said...I think a lot of the match­es farther down the line could have been won with proper preparation and frnough practice." 
The loss to Calvin signals only the second c.on1',1rcnce match th0, Belles have lost this season. After todav's loss the Belles still hold a 15-2 <iv1-irall record and a 4-2 record in the MIAA Their only other loss this season came against Hope College in late Mal"f'h. 
Saint Mary's is looking ahead to a challenging second half of their sea­son. 
"We have a lot of tough matches coming up... Vales said. "Most will be as tough as Calvin. if not more diffi­cult. We want to get as much practice as possible b0fore Saturday's match." 
Saint Mary's far,es off against DePauw University in Chicago this Saturday at 3 p.rn. 
.SENIOR Ill/EEK TICKET .SALES KICKOFF 
Friday April 14 10AM-2PM No-tre Dame Room, LaFor-tune 
. Lin,i.,-ed .,-;cke.,_.s available ror .selec.,_ even.,_.s buy .,-;cke-t-s early . Bri"ng your .Srudenr ID 
. Cedar Poinr,, Cubs Game,, Senior 
Formal and111ore 
. Buy lim;·red edir.on Sen;or W/eek shirrs . Free rerreshment-s . Check your email or Class oF2000 webs;·re 
For ricker pri·ces 
Questions -Call Andrea 233-3783 or .Ju.lie 634-3772 
·• 

f page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 13, 2000 
Rose's wrestling antics hurt chances for Hall 


Would .fol' DiMaggio allow a named "Big l{pd Machine." Chicago radio show host that Hose-antagonist .Jim Gray crPatc gridlock, a stal«>matn. a 400-srHne-odd pound profes­Kane. kno,vn for his fiery dis­claimod. "took a hnro f'rom my did during the World Series. battfo of' wills in whic:h lw is sional wr<~stler drnssed in a position, found little amuse­childhood, ripped him off of his lle's push<id Urn envelopo. lle1's significantly outgunned. llis thong-like diaprr rub his dPr­mPnt in th!' l'hickon's antics. thrn1m and left him lying in a rP!'tJS()d lo give in. Worst of all, actions. on the other hand. rierr. in his face in front of mil­Ile showed his displeasurn by gutter." lrn's spit in tlwir !'ace. havP gainPd him tlw sympathy lions of ripping the head off of the Hakishi proceeded to shoVf• Whv would H<>se srdl auto­that lw wanlt\d. fans'? r.hickf'n leaving a shocked his obflse rear right into nose's graphs and merchandise on Unl'ortunatc>ly for Pdt\ th<' 
That's Hose exposed to the world. famous squarn jaw. The man tlrn steps 111' the Ilall or Fame'? sympathy is b<iroming morn the first .r\s if' seeing Petf' Rosi'\ that replaced Hoberto Ile. of all people should realizf' and more !'or his tragir flaws. thing that tlresst'.d as a chicken wasn't Clemente. who was more likely the sacredness of that templn. I!is new "anything for a buck" came to enough to ruin any respectable to be helping impovnrishcd I!is inltrntions were obviouslv attitude has revf'alod that thr mind upon impression one had of him, hr Puerto Hicans than at a to spitP basnball. · addiction to gambling for seeing made sum to completely ruin wrestling event, on the mythi­llis actions. up to this point, which Im bt>came famous is Pete Hose. his 1·cputation this year. Using cal ".r\11-Century [Pam" was have rcsP.mblnd a public r<~la­really only a front for a much baseball's sonrnonc dressed in the chick­having his furn sat upon. tions campaign, intent on gain­mor<' dangerous addiction: an prodigal en outlil as a decoy. Hos1-1 i\nd Cincinnati thought ing sympathy f'or himself by addiction to grPPd. and unr!'-Brian Churney snuck up from behind Kane Marge Schott was a disgrnci,. making the bas1-1ball 1-1stablisb­lfr has bPconw a tragic fig­pentant and tried to make his Lack feel It wasn't his mere pn1scncc nw11t look like lrnartless vil­ure. someone who rHn1wt lwlp son make what 4,256 baseballs had fr.It that was so disturbing. lains. but harm himsdf'. who contin­an appear-On the Flot throughout Rose's career, solid WrestlPMania has attracted Earth to Pntn: Most f'ans uously rids himself of pridr in ance at Corner contact with one of Rose's bats manv a star. want vou in the llall. You no order to gain resprct. IIP's tlw Wrestle-in the middlA of his swing. It was the imagf1 of a c,hild­longe~ need tn win their class down that can't stop Mania, the 11ut alas. just as Pete's llall­hood hero sinking to a lcvnl he approval. Try concnntrating on laughing wlwn he grts pun­WWr's World Series of.events. o/'-Fame µ!ans haven't matric­has toyed dangorously with the peopln who am keeping ishrd: tho obesr pnrson who 
Here's what occui-rf'd. ulated. his plans for revenge beforn. but rWV<'r actually vou out. rats to d(~al with his unhappi­
This past weekend. Rose, a failed as well. Kane's tag-team reached. It was the imagr. of • But Pete Hose won't be !1£\SS with bis bodv: thr alco­wrestling fan. made his third partner. Hakishi Phat.u. the Hose finally crossing th,it line caught brown-nosing, at it'ast holic who drinks to deal with straight appearance on afnrnmrntioned 400-pound between shamnless self-pro­not unless its in tlrn middle of a his addiction. WrestleMania. Over his past dia.per-cla.tl wrestler, grabbed moter to shameful sclf'-tlepre­wrestling ring. Apparently, he llr's sad. thret> appearances. Rose bas the bat from Pete. presenting rator. belicv11s that tho wav to thr1. l'<'tr Hos!' d('Sf'rvns to b,, in developed a pseudo-feud with him to Kane, who promptly For at least 01w bas<'ball !'an, I Jail involves adopti11g an 'Tll thP llall of Fam<'. No wr1'slling an especially lar){e, red-oULfit­turned around and threw !lose Hose had 11nally go1w too l'ar. pick up my toys and ]nave" stunt, nor attitud<' can change ted wrnstler named Kane. into h,]s signature "r.hokA Though his actions since being attitudo of which anv adoles­that. l.l'l's just hopP that tlw 
The feud began three years slam. banned from baseball cent would be proud. I le baseball cstablishnwnt rt~aliz1'.s ago when Kane attacked Hose As a beaten Hose (as beat1rn shouldn't rrncossarily prnvent apparnntly hasn't hoard of the it bd'orn i'Ptn tries to 1·onvincn The next vear. the feud was as you r.an get from a fakf) him from entPring tlrn I la!!. old saying, you '11 get more f'lins tlwm otlrnrwise. esr.alated-when Hose, dressed sport) lay motionless on the these stunts and his attitude with honey than f1ypaper. llo's as the infamous chicken mas­canvas, Rakishi's friends set isn't helping bis c:ause. trying to get out of' a speeding The uiews expressed in this cot that appears at several up CharliP Hustle in the cor­Hose has responded to base­tickct by being rude to thc column are those ofthe auI ho­high-profile events, tried to ner, preparing him to recei.vc ball's ban in a manner police. er and no/ necessarily Ihose r~f entertain the ironically nick-an art which a popular · remarkably similar to the way What his attitude has dmw is The Observer. 
Please Recycle The Observer. 
¦ ATTENTION GRADUATE CLUB OFFICERS! 
All graduate clubs must re-register annually to be eligible for official recognition. Official recognition can only be granted by the Student Activities Office. For the 2000-2001 academic year, club registration will be held on April 13 and 14 in the Student Activities Office. Registration packetes were sent to club contacts in early March. All 
GRAD CLUB REGISTRATION WILL BE HELD 
graduate clubs are required to register either today or tomorrow.  An appointment is not required --just show up  
:z:  between the hours listed below!  
a  

I­
a:

C TODAY & TOMORROW!
t­
en 

CD 9:00 AM -5:00 PM 
a: STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE (31S LAFORTUNE) m 
QUESTIONS? 
= 

Call Ryan Willerton in the Student Activities Office at 631-7309. 
u 

FOR MORE INFORMATION, VISIT: "•11"""1 .nd.edu/-sao/clubs/registration.htm 
Tl111rsday, April 13, 2000 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
The Observer . TODAY TOM KEELEY 

page 27 

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM _.,, 
EN, I PON~T C.AF!€: How 
You ARE. you j1JS1 CA WHOL-€. p,,,._'{ "6 t-=oo'D ON6 MS"AL,,,; 
Testing the Dining Hall's 
"Eat All You'd Like" Policy. 
beam. 1@nd.edu 


BILL AMEND 
LET'S
ON SECOND 

WOl11' ON
THOU&HT, MY 

H ... \/INC, 
ls SLUE SLoUSE 15 THOSE " JUST AS CUT£. 
SECOND THQU'=>HTS 
FIRST. 
\... 
Fox TROT 
AAAA! MY P1NK 8LouSE IS ALL WR1NKLYi 
, . I 
I HAVEN'T HAO A CHANCE 
To Do 
THE IRONIN&. 
l 
BUT TODAY IS THE FRESH­MAN CLASS PHoTo! I HAVE To WEAR THIS 6L0USE! !'VE SEEN PLANNING THIS OUTFIT ALL YEAR! YOU'VE RUINED 
PAIGE,
MY LIFE. NOW, 
'!'OU CAN
MOTHfi.R! ARE ALWAYSYOU HAPPY?! 
IRON IT
~()~ YOURSELF. \_ 
HOROSCOPE 
TiillRSDAY, APRIL 13, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Thomas Jefferson, Garry Kas­parov, Jack Casady, Dan Gurney, Ron Pennan, Jonathan Brandis 
Happy Birthday: The greater the challenge, the better you'll do. Set your sights high and make your presence felt. The more you do to get ahead, the higher the rewards. Your versatile approach and quick response will lead to prosperous results. Stick to tried-and-true meth· ods that have worked in the past, and you won't get led astray. Your nwnbers: 4, 11, 19, 22, 34, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You will find yourse!I in a bit of a bind if you haven't controlled your temper today. Those you live with may be eager to debate, which in tum, could easily lead to estrangement. 00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Travel should be encouraged. You will be in a high-energy mode and must have an outlet if vou wish to accomplish the most. Don't be sur­prised if someone close to you needs help. 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Sud­den changes regarding your firumc:ial situation will aid you in making decisions. You should be careful not to eat foods that will upset your frag­ile metabolism today. 0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your sensitive nature will expose itself in mood swings. Those you Jive with will be most annoyed if you are reluc­tant to see their side of the situation. 
000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): This will be a wonderful day to couununicate with others. Your colorful way of expressing yourself will bring you popularity and newfound love. Sta­bilization can be vours. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 221: You 
EUGENIA LAST 

will be able to make a difference if you are willing to give of your time. Volunteer work will be rewarding and bring you into contact with those who can spark your imagination, 
000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23•Oct. 22): You mav have problems getting alongwith. your boss. Be direct but diplo­matic if you don't want to find your­self looking for a new job. Discipline and quiet pursuits will ensure lasting employment. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21l: 
Someone you live with will be demanding. Don't allow him or her to infringe on the time needed to complete important projects. Your need to organize may drive others 
crazv. 00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
211: You must not push yourself to a point that your health will suffer. Love connections can be made if you don't hesitate to interact with others. Social events must be attended. 
00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may not be the easiest to get along with today. Try not to be too curt with your loved ones and be prepared to work on some of the difficulties that have arisen m your I"!1ationship. 000 
-1.QUARIUS (Jan. 20•Feb. 18): 

You should be planning career moves or presenting your work to your boss today. You mustn't allow your emotional upset to stand in the way of your monetary goals. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Love will manifest itself in the strangest ways. Don't hesitate to mix business with pleasure. Your professional talents will be very attractive to potential mates. 000 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Embargoed country 5 Medicinal side effect, maybe 9 Hairpieces 14 "Up and_!" 15 Keyboard instrument 16 Like some swarms 
17 Operatic city created by Brecht and 64-Across 
19 Actress Lotte, wife of 64-Across 
20 Record player 21 Records 23 Mo. of the year 24 Musical comedy 
scored by 64-Across 27 Mason's burden 
29 Part of a yen 30 River boat Abbr. 31 The tops 33 Waikiki 
wingding 36 Discrimination 40 Brecht and 
64-Across offering, with "The" 
43 1920's auto 44 Ally (with) 45 Piccadilly Circus 
statue 46 Hotel floor sign 48 Suffix with 
Caesar 50 TI.ny forager 51 Hit by Maxwell 
Anderson and 
64-Across 57 Fire truck item 58 Jungle vine 59 Virginia colonist 
John 
62 Like some illnesses 64 Composer born 
March 2, 1900 66 Skip a syllable 67 Clever Bambeck 68 Farm soil 69 Excised 
70 Musical interval 71 Parts of the Air France fleet 
DOWN 
1 Extravagantly theatrical 2 Rainbow Bridge 
locale 3 Eyewitnesses 4 Appliance 
maker 5 One of a Latin trio 6 Maintains course 7 Chengchow's province s Moses' birthplace 9 Something 
funny to sing in 10 Copy 11 Blair or Evant 12 Stratum 13 Potential diet­
breaker 18 Olympus 
residents 22 Interrogatives 25 Puppy's cry 26 Cover, in a way 27 "Unimaginable 
as_in Heav'n": Milton 28 Newspaperman Adofph 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
I N S E L S E

T H 
s E O S O M E

H E 
E L 
0 R S E S E R F 
__N..+-E--1 E O 
Puzzle by Frances Hansen 
32 "N,?w you _ 
34 Black cuckoo 35 Places for 
crutches 37 Harems 38 1982 Disney 
film 39 Whence the 
Magi, with "the" 41 Got all A's 42 Some votes 47 Big record inits. 49 Neighbor of 
Swed. 

51 Redeemed 56 Holiday entertainments
52 Napoleon, twice 60 Fizzless

53 Jeopardy 61 Popular street
54 One whose job linersis a piece of 

cake? 63 Fruity drink 
55 Harden: Var. 65 Tit for 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

Birthday Baby: You are steadfast in all that you pursue. You are sharp when it comes to interaction and will always be able to keep up to whoever and whatever challenges you throughout your life. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialasLcom, astromate.com.) CO 2000 Universal Pttss Syndicate 

NOTRE DAME "BASEBALL~ 
Tonight! 
us.Toledo5ft)pm 


NOTRE DAME SOFTBALL 
Thursday 
vs. Depaul 3:00pm 
Sunday 
vs. Loyola(Chicago) 2:00pm 



Made of steel 
Hyan Sachire and the Notre Dame men's tennis contin­ues to face the lop national

.._ 
learns as il faces lhe Nu. 26 Michigan Wofoerines.
PORTS 
page 25 

O
nt~ page 28 BSERVER Thursday, April 13, 2000 
FOOTBALL 

Injuries turn out to be blessing in disguise for Irish 
guys bal'k so it was a big rolP. By BRIAN KESSLER But this y1'ar il's not just me.[ Asstst,1nt ~ports Ediwr Thorr are a lot ol' guys and this will br th11ir Inst rhanrn to do it 
Last sP-ason. an astounding right." f nint' offp nsiv1' IinPmf' n mane Senior John TP-asdalr !h-5. starb in the trcnclws !'or ilw !i-7 305) and junior Jordan Bla('k ((i­
f 
Notn• Damr f'ootball tram. But h. 3101 rrturn at the offnnsivnI tlw dl't'ision to start ni1w linP­tar-kl<' spots. Roth sufforpd Sl'a­I man wasn't u1w !wad coach Bob son-Pndi ng injurit's lalt~ in the
r ..... 
Davi!• nrndP 1·as1H1ily. lnstPad. it ynar and Blar.k is still nie:ov<'ring was out of' 1wct•ssitv. ~houldPr surgPry and klHW liga­
Evrrv tinw Dav.iP tunwd his nwnt damage. hPad. ii sPrnwd anothPr lirn'man Thi' big quostion mark !wad­\\'US hobbling DIT llw lit-Id. ,\nd ing into tlw srasDn will bP thr whih' thr injuriPs took a toll on cPnt<'r position. Mt'rnndi. wl10 tlw Irish offPnsive atta('k and loggnl tlw mos( minutrs 011 tlw ultimaLP]y tlw tc,tru's n•rnrd. tlw LP.am last season. was dnnit'd a 
e·1mC"lws and players arP opti­l'if'l11-yPar. nwaning 01111 of' tlw mistic about t!w mixc'd bh•ssing. youngr·r guys 1,,vill haw to slPp 
"Tlw inj11rips hurt us last ymu·. up and try to !ill his shot's. The hut il was sort of a blPssing in l'rontrunnrr Harly in spring drills clisguisP for us." fifth-yPar s,•ninr is sophomore Jnll FainP. MikP Candy said. "Our gu~·s got "John was a big pari of this 
a lot of ganw exp('rirnrP linP. but Jrff Faine' is a smart 
bPrausP of it and learm·d how to guy and hr knows what Ill' is handl1• tlw prrssurr. So we·rp doing." Candy said. "So W<' rral­looking forward to rwxt y<'ar." ly don't losr. much." 
\\'ith four returning starters Fairn' (6-3. 2()21 was a highly and a \\'Paith or dl'pth. nPxt l'P(Tllill'd prospert out or 
year's of'frnsiw linr is shaping Srminoh• l ligh School in Florida. up as onr' of tlw tram's most but hasn't stPppPd fool on the Pxpt>rit•nrPd units. liPld during a ganw. llis lt~am­
'"\\'p'w morP 1·xpcri!'ncPd this mates. however. have' made year and that has lwlpPd us Fainp's adjustnwnt an Pasy one. jump right into things." Candy "It's bnen really cool," Fain\' 
said. "We arP \parning th!' nev\· said. "All thP older guys took nw plays and th1• dPfrnsivP-fronts undPr thPir wing and trPat<'d rnc and lhP guys arP pic'.king it up as if J'vp always been thrrr. quirkly." They've shown me Urn roprs. It's Fil'th-yPar Sf'niors .Jim .lonPs rPally bP.en nPat to havr four 
and Gandv hold down tlw start­guys takP you in like~ that." ing guard spo ls during spring Faint\ i('arned a lot in just om' prarticP. Thi' (i-2. 310-pound snason from his mPntor. Jonr•s mad<' 10 starts at ]pft Merandi. guard. whilf' c;andy, at 6-4 and "Merandi taught me how lo be 31 S pounds. startPd all 11 a leadt11· and to always do the ganws and loggPd thP. srcond right thing," Faim• said. "I rnwrr highf'st numb1•r of minutes on caught him doing the wrong the tPam. thing. Ile taught me lo bPlirwe in 
Gandy has playrd tho most myself' and be mnfident in what carPPr minutP.s or anv lin<'m,rn. I do." but experts thl' whtJ!e unit to Faine. howcver. realizes he tak<' on the lradPrship role. still has a long way to go beforn 
"[t's a big rPsponsibility," hr makes his 11rsl snap against Gandv said. "Last vPar John Mnra~di and I wf'r~ thn only see FOOTBALL/page23 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXIX 

Forces of Evil defeat Five Cardinal Virtues in first-round 
FivP Cardinal Virturs (for­officrr and what appcar<'d Lo spectators. with his cvPs clost'd and 
By BRIAN BURKE 

merly Fivc Deadly Sins) came be another type ol' minister or "On11 of those girls over Fortituck al~·ays !ct a pass hit Spam \X'riter 
rquippNl with plrnty or toys prif'St. then\, I want lrnr to fall in love him in the rhnst. for their battle with Forces of They ccrlainly play,•d hard. with one of' tlrn mPmbnrs ol' "Th11 Lord God guidPd nw 
Thr sights and sounds of Evil. but in thP end. evil pre­although il at times did not. the other team." Bradt said. 100 percent: I was 9 l'or ')." earlv round Bookstore vailed by a scorr. of 21-9. Five look like basketball. Cupid "And in that way, it'll be four Montufar said. "I didn't nvcn Bask~\lball -crazy outfits, Cardinal Virtues. Oove, faith. spent a good portion of' the on fivo. because they'll proba­look back. Mos1)s got kickcd errant passes, numProus air­fortitude, justicc and rharity) gamc shooting his arrows at bly go off and do somP. lovey­out of' Urn promisf'd land for 
,.. 
balls. scores of 21-2 -wern comprised of .Mike Bradt. J.P. thr opposing Learn and hug­d uvy stuff. and then wo'd havt\ looking back. so I just trustpd all present Wednesday as the Montufar. Andrew McDonnell, ging tht'm after thcy srorrd. a chanr,e with four on fivc." thr Lord. all mv baskPts WPnt next group of' trams took to Matt Quirion and Jim Fleming whilc tho policeman kept busy Meanwhilr,. Charity would in, it was 21--17. W(' had a tht> Stepan ('.ourts for their showed up dressnd as Cupid. a brandishing his nightstirk and givt' up tlrn ball to whoever opening round games. ministPr. SnpPrman. a polici> writing up tickets for littnring was closest. Faith always shot see B-BALL/p;1ge 22 

..r Softball 
• 
Women's Lacrosse 
vs, DePaul 
ar Duke

Today, 3 p.m. Men's Golf
SPORTS • 

Tod,1y. 7 p.m. 
at Ohio Srare Kepler ATA at Michigan Intercollegiate
('i'•·1 Track and field 
.. •·,,::_-::;.,' Today, 3 p.m. Friday-Saturdayat Mr. Sac Rebys (Calif.)~ -. fnday, TBA GLANCE 



