
Island influence 
Scene reviews the latest Cuban art exhibition now at The Snite. including Ernesto Pujol's "Ma/etas." 
Scene . page 14-15 

Monday 
JANUARY 31, 2000 
Northern concerns 

IRA guerrrillas are not ready to disarm,. moving the peace process in Northern Ireland toward a new crisis. 
WorldNation . page 5 


THE 


VOLXXXIII NO. 72 
MAn's MELEE 


Men's basketball coach Matt Doherty celebrates Saturday's win over St. John's with the crowd. 




Victory 
Men's basketball coach Matt Doherty waved fans out onto the court to celebrate Notre Dame's 73-60 victory over #25 St. John's Saturday, a win that keeps the Irish in the :\/CAA Tournament hunt. It was Notre Dame's third win over a ranked opponent this season, and their first before the Joyce Center crowd. Read about the game on page 28. 
KEVIN DALUMIThe Obsen,er 
A zealous fan recognizes Coach Doherty's 

JOHN DAILY/The Observer 

background with North Carolina. 
Matt Carroll and Jimmy Dillon embrace. 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

RAs struggle 
with ND financial aid 
By ERIN PIROUTEK 
Assistant News Editor 
Rosident Assistants don't have glorious jobs. They give up two weeks of summer for training. They sacrifice Friday and Saturday nights to be on duty. 
They clean up after sick fresh­men. 
They do receive $6,022 from the University for their duties. But of Notre Dame's 164 RAs, many of the 108 who receive financial aid admit that when they applied they didn't understand how the University adjusts aid packages to compensate for RAs income. 
An RA applies for financial aid in the same manner as other stu­dents, explained Sue Brandt, asso­ciate director of Financial Aid at Notre Dame. The aid package is awarded without taking into con­sideration that the student is an RA. 
Then, the RA benefit is deducted from the self-help portion of the aid package, reducing loans and the work-study component. 
However, many prospective RAs mistakenly believe that their fami­lies pay less or that room and board is free. 
For example, a student who receives a financial aid package containing work-study, loans and grants with a family contribution of $15,000 will not see a reduction in the cost the family must pay. 
After the student becomes an RA, the family contribution stays the same, but loans and work-study components are reduced by $6,022. 
The system has proven confusing for prospective applicants. 
"It is misleading," said Pangborn RA Heidi Eppich, who was sur­prised to receive a new financial aid statement after being accepted as RA last spring. "My understand­ing was that my financial aid pack­age wouldn't be affected." 
Some criticize the logic of thfl 
see RA/page 4 
Dog missing after fire 
One of the couple's two dogs face and a solid black tail. By ERIN LaRUFFA made it out of the fire safely "She's a member of the fami­New, Wrirer and is now staying with the ly. She's not just a dog to us. 
couple at another location. The They're both like our children,'' 
Since Jan. 18, when fire fire department told Castro late said Castro, adding that the destroyr:d the house they rent­last week that his other dog, money he is offering for a ed in the <JOO block of Notre Scarlet, must also have escaped reward is from the couple's Dame Aw., thinl-yrmr law stu­the fire; the cause of the blaze savings they plannecl to use to dents Chris Castro and his is still undetermined. move back to Dallas. f'iancee Michelle MacArthur Castro is offering a $1,000 Anyone with information have been searching for their reward for Scarlet's return. She about Scarlet should contact four-year-old Dalmatian. has an almost entirely white Castro at 246-1338. 

Off-Campus: 
OC lounge, 1 la.m.-3p.m. 

On-Campus: 
Dining Hall, 7-9 a.m., 12­2 p.m., 5-7 p.m. 
SCOTT HARDYfThe Observer 

·---------------------­
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, January 31, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 




Robbed 
Saturday night, my housemates and I invit­ed over a few friends. More than a hundred people showed up. We weren't surprised. The five of us who share a three-st.ory Kramer house on East Washington Street am like the center of a wheel; our 
spokes lead to, among other things. The Observer. the ski team, Hall President's Council. London Program spring '99, Austria program '98­'99. the senior CHEG class and the art department. When we each invite a few 

friends. we expect a hun-Michelle Krupa dred people. 
But some idiot Saturday night made us rethink ever hosting a party Editor in Chief 
again. See. somebody took $200 in cash from my roommate's second-11oor bedroom. The loot 'vvasn't exposP.d; it was dPlibP-rately hidden in a sock drawer. Sure, she probably shouldn't have had a giant. wad of liquid assets bump­ing uglies with her knee-highs. but that cer­tainly is not the point. Someone simply should not have been snooping for dough in a dark room behind a dosed door. 
We left our bedrooms upen so people could put their coats aside. We allowed access to our upstairs bathroom so the small-bladdcred wouldn't be forced to write their names in the snow. We trusted our friends and our friends' friends not to take advantage of our hospitali­ty. Most people didn't; you are the ones we trust with our home and our friendship. 
It was just one person -probably someone we don't even know -whom we trusted a bit too much. 
It's not the money, really. It's the vomitous feeling that our vulnerability was exploited. Do we realize how open we leave ourselves to theft when we blast Bruce on the stereo and don't post a bouncer at the door? Sure. Do we half-expect a pool cue or a bar stool to be missing or broken in the morning? Of course. But we also expect the people we host to have the decency and dignity to stay out of those things that obviously are personal -the things we stuff away in closed drawers. 
To whomever took our monev: If it was a couple bucks you needed for a 'cab back to campus, we would have paid. But if it was the thrill of finding a stash. you disgust us. You took our sense of safety and ruined the mem­ory of our night. Instead of chatting about which crazy dancer strutted across the picnic table. we retraced our steps, wondering when our guard fell and we allowed a thief through our collective defense. 
We aren't the only ones. Cameras, movies. CDs. coats and jewelry disappear from off­campus houses and apartments all the time. Police reports seem illogical; we invite the robbers, show them the goods and let them walk out unscathed. We don't know who they are. but we will not stop trusting our friends because these thieves can't respect the gra­cious hosts who let them sing, dance and hang out until the sun rises or the well runs dry. 
To our friends: We hope you had a wonder­ful time Saturday night. To our robber: We hope you buy yourself something real nice. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Maureen Smithe Mike Vanegas Anne Marie Macringly Graphics Lindsay Frank Scott Hardy 
Sports Production 
Kathleen O'Brien Mike Connolly 

Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Mary Margaret Nussbaum Job Turner 
Th~ Obmv,:r (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Mond•y through Frid•y excrpt during cx:1m and vs,c:1rion p<"rto<ls. The Observer is ;t member of rhe A5.so,_.i,uetl Pren, Al) repro<l~K[ioi1 ri,p:hrs ;ire reserved. 

Stabbed LSU dean returns to work 
BATON ROUGE. La. 
Interim dean of students John Baker is "doing okay" just two days after his stabbing, according to an oflicial from the dean of students ofllce. "He is back at work a little bit," said associate dean of students Wanda Hargroder. "He's physically okay. lle's lucky to be alive." Marques Smith, a junior in philosophy. allegedly stabbed Baker in his driveway Monday morning, after Smith received notification from the o!Iice of the dean of students that he was being investigated for grade tampering. Hargroder told the student senate Wednesday night that Baker is beginning his healing process, and asked the senators for their thoughts and prayers. "A very important part of his work life is Student Government," she said. She encouraged those present to visit Baker, and offer him a "hug or a hand­shake" for support. Baker met with members of the SG Executive Staff Wednesday to assure them he was okay, and so members would not worry about him, said Sterling Foster, SG president. "It was really good to see him," Foster said. "lie had high spirits for someone who just encountered what he did." 


LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS  
Monday  Tuesday  Wednesday  Thursday  
. Student film festival:  . Nuclear weapons  . Whaddyathink Luncheon:  . Medieval seminar:  614  
Annenberg Auditorium,  lecture: Ilesburgh Center  Noble Family Dining Hall.  Hesburgh Library. 3:30­ 
Snite Museum of Art, 7:30  Auditorium, 4:15 p.m.  noon.  5:30 p.m.  
and 9:45 p.m.  . Film/discussion: "Dr.  . Interracial dating  . Keenan Revue:  
. International film  Strangelow\" Hesburgh  discussion: csc, 5:30 p.m.  O'Laughlin Auditorium,  
festival: "My Father's  Center Auditorium, 7 p.m.  7:30 p.m.  
Glory," Montgomery  
Theatre. Lafortune, 8 p.m.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Faculty may supervise Texas Tech newspaper 
AUSTIN, Texas cials will discuss the issue at a Feb. 
A proposal by a Texas Tech 
3 meeting. administrator could place the Wayne Hodgins, editor in chief of school's independent student news­The University Daily, said the facul­paper under the supervision of the ty would be supporting censorship if mass communications departnrnnt. the students aren't allowed to 
Jerry Hudson. chairman of the decide on content of' student publi­Texas Tech department of mass cations. communications. said in a statement "It's bullshit. and everybody is that mass communications faculty against these changes," said members should have. control over Hodgins, an English/journalism the university's student publications. editor and freedom of the press. This senior. including The University Daily and would be detrimental." Mark Goodman, a representative KTXT-TV. Hudson did not return Lndcr the proposal. The University of the Student Press Law Center in calls Thursday. Daily newsroom editor position Washington. D.C.. said any student 
Texas Tech faculty members do would be filled by a non-student publication in which the content is not currently hold authority over the staff member, who will teach a sec­decided by faculty is a "censored content of student publications, said tion of a reporting class. The staff publication." Jan Childress. director of student member would use the students "It is a mouth-piece for the jour­publications. enrolled in a reporting class to write nalism department to say what they 
"The constitution guarantees your stories published in the newspaper. want to say," Goodman said. "The right to free press," Childress said. "l The president of Texas Tech Constitution does not allow censor­really believe in the independent University and other university ofli-ship in student publications." 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Monday, Jan. 31. 
20s 

Os 

Monday Tuesday Wedne,sday 
FRONTS: 
"T"T' A...&. ..,a-y. 
e 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
P,--u,e; """ 
® © .. ~~rn~o~~ 
Hl9h L41' Shower• R•tn T-elorm• Flu",.. Snow le. Sunn)' Pt. Cloud)' CIOUd)' 1.1a Auoeial«J p,." 
AUanta 42 27 Hartlord 32 23 Louisville 36 24 Boston 39 28 Honolulu 81 66 Miami 78 66
~A~~~~ (f ~ a 
Chicago 38 28 JndianapoUs 33 24 Milwaukee 34 22
\ '''I'~' .. : . . . . .;.· -:: --­Shawt>11; T-stvrms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Svnny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Cincinnati 36 26 Jacksonville 58 35 New York 38 31 
Via As.sociatad Press G,aphicsNet Dallas 53 47 Kansas City 41 25 Wash DC 37 28 


Former coach to run for House 
HASTINGS. Neb. 
It didn't take Tom Osborne long to break a roomful of reporters' suspense about whether he'd make a run for the U.S. House of Representatives on Thursday morning. The former Nebraska football coach walked into the temporary pressroom housed in the student union of' Hastings College -his alma mater -as reporters clung to their cell phones, giving on-the-spot updates to their news directors and on-air reports to radio stations. All wondered one thing: would he or wouldn't he? Then. he walked up to the podium to make his announcement. "The reason we're here in Hastings is because I am announcing my candidacy for the 3rd District Congressional race," he said. After making the announcement, Osborne told the audience he would enter the political arena in a somewhat non­political fashion. His campaign and potential term would not be driven by party leanings. 'Tm not a par­tisan person, and I don't understand party politics at all," he said. His campaign will be closed to individuals and organizations expecting to influence him through large contributions. 


~-------------------~--------------------~--------------------. 
Monday, January 31, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Opening ceremony models the globe 

By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
News Wrim 
Participants at the opening presentation of Play of the Mind Thursday realized that they are part of a very elite group. 
Each was handed a glow stick on his or her way in to the audi­torium. Near the end of the pre­sentation. the audience was asked to break open their glow sticks. Little neon lights pene­trated through the dark audito­rium as Sister Ann Oestreich explained what it represented. 
"Our conventional globe is one model of the world," she said. "But it only shows us landmass­es and physical or political char­act,wistics of the world. Tonight we are going to turn this audito­rium into a model of lhe world. 
YarsityBooks.com. 
Who would we be if all the peo­ple in the world were here tonight, if all the people in the world represented by the people here in the proportions that they exist in the globe we are model­ing." 
Every program had a number on it, and as Oestreich asked dif­ferent numbers to stand up, she explained what each represent­ed in the world. 
"Now would just the number 72s stand up. You are the only persons in this room in this globe who have completed a col­lege education. Think about this. What is your responsibility to the rest? In this mini world we all have a college degree or hope to have one. What does our responsibility become when this one ticket, not the only ticket, but an important ticket to the intellectual life, is reserved for so few?" 
Fourteen colleges, including Saint '.\fary's, were challenged this weekend to think intellectu­ally about their interactions with the global world. Students, pro­fessors and administrators all listened intently as different guest speakers spoke of how intellectual relations with the world are so important. 
"Is your life a product or a performance?" student body president, Nancy Midden, asked the participants. 
A product is something tangi­ble, but if it's a performance, there is no tangible product left over. 
"I thiuk everyone's life is a performance," Midden said. "But the challenge is to make a prod­uct out of life." 
Intellectuals need to interact with the rest of the world. 
"You have an obligation to help shape the new century," said Dr. Marilou Eldridge. presi­dent of Saint Mary's College. 
"All in this room arc educa­tors," said Patrick White, one of the directors of the conference. "All of us have a responsibility to educate one another, to call our­selves to strong action as intel­lectual and to as leaders. To inspire our sisters, our daugh­ters, ourselves." 
Photographs by Mariana Cook, from her book Generations of Women, were shown to "help us understand the way we are linked to the women who have gone before, to whom we owe respect, from whom we carry a legacy of thought and action," said Margaret Roma, English College of Saint Elizabeth's. 
The conference was held to challenge everyone to become intellectuals, engaging in thought and action with the world around them, according to Oestreich. 

arsi;;s1'3k~m yo7i cont'ave $'to .40% on 
,.,,."'!;, ~ 
your textboob, get t~em I to three Bu~,Qnd ciJi of this from a Web ~,te thats completely re 1a nd secure.~9. you have it, you decide. 

SAVE UP TO 40% ON TEXTBOOKS. 
Savings off distributor's suggested price. Books delivered in no more than three business days. Some restrictions apply. See site for details. 
.{yVarsityBooks.com 


Weekend draws several colleges 
By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
l\'ews Writer 
Students, professors and administration from Saint Mary's and 13 other pri­vate colleges considered how to influence global and local communities at the Plav of the Mind con­t'erenc/ 
Throughout the week­end, particiµants deter­mined that the need for global awareness on envi­ronmental and economic problems, technology, family 
spirit through recruiting by familiarizing students with tradition and history of their colleges, dealing with apathy regarding activities on campus and establishing mentoring programs. 
Saint Marv's director of Student · Activities, Georgeanna Rosenbush, was pleased with the events of the conference. 
"I think it went real well," said Rosenbush. "I· enjoyed the opportunity to meet so many fantastic women and get to know 
women 
values from Saint
"It was absolutely afan­
a n d Mary's educa­tastic experienr;e. I met College 
tion are so many women and better." impor· Although
learned so much."
t a n t there were ch a I -not as lenges Nicole Milos many par­w hi Ch ticipants
former student 
intellec­from Saint

body president
t u a I s Mary's as 
need to face in the new century. 
Another portion of the conference focused on the person as an intellectual 
Saint Mary's graduate and former student body president, Nicole Milos, spoke to participants. 
"It was absolutely a fan­tastic experience. I met so many women and learned so much," Milos said. "I learned we are linked in our concerns for our com­munity, ourselves, and our future." 
Participants also gener­ated ideas of improve­ments they'd like to see on their college campuses. Ideas included beginning a multi-cultural club to increase diversity, finding effective ways to use tech­nology through the Internet for campus events, promoting school 
there have 
been in the past, both Rosenbush and White felt the conference was worthwhile. It will be continued. 
"I was very pleased with the number of first-year student participants from Saint Mary's College," said Patrick White, Play of the Mind director. "It's always exiting to see the serious­ness and good humor of students, faculty, and administration bring to the work. People come up with really interesting ideas." 
Jaimie Ade, a confer­ence participant from Saint Mary's of the Woods College, plans to return. 
"l will definitely come back," she said. "I think all the ideas are definitely do-able. All it takes is a few people to get a lot of people involved," 


Which one would you choose? 
The elephants? The whales? The clean air we breathe? Maybe the choice isn't so clear. Maybe you'd like a way to keep them all. Now the world's leading environmemal groups are working together. To find out how you can help, look for us at www.earthshare.org. 
., 
O•u••inm-,. On";mpl, w,y w=•J,,;, -: 
Earth Share 

page4 The Observer . NEWS Monday, January 31, 2000 
RA 
continued from page l 
policy. 
"Since you're doing a ser­vice to the University, I don't think it should be deducted from the aid they give you." Wagner said. 
Prospective RAs said the 
"We think the RA beneficial. 
upon whom you ask. 
financial aid 
Wrighl, a sophomore com­
policy has position is very "I wish 
kept students there would 
munications major at the
important and we would
from apply­have been a 
University of I Iouston. is paid 
ing. want to help them question­
to post lecture notes from 
three of her courses to
"It should secure it. ,, and-answC'r 
StudeutU.c;om, whicb offers
not go to the session bv 
people who Studen"t 
class notes from universities
Sue Brandt
can afford to Affairs," said 
across the cou11try on its Web 
do it -it associate director of Mr.Cluskev, 
site. 
noting that.if' 
"I think my notes am good. I
should go to financial aid 
the most qualified stu­dents." said junior Casey McCluskey, who applied for RA in Pangborn 
!Jail. 
Financial Aid representa­tives, howevPr, said they make every effort to assist RAs. 
"We think the RA position is very important and we would want to help them secure it," explairn~d Sue Brandt. associ­ate director of financial aid at Notre Dame. "The value of the aid package will be the same, but the components may be different." 
Although some students believe scholarships decrease after becoming RAs. Brandt cautioned this is a misconcep­tion; scholarship awards are determined separately. 
"Nowhere in our aid policy would an RA position reduce the student's scholarship based in Houston, took Wolf'


Do you like to write? 
and his concept to the Internet this fall. Students at dozens of
Call 631-5323. 
schools across the country are paid about $300 to audit their 
.Am
encanHeart .,,,_ Association® 
Fighting Heart Disease and Stroke 

It'sthe gift of 
Ill.,._..... ....r/b'JJf14¦ 
Open to atu.den11 from ALL Colle1e1



alifetime. 
Making abequest to the AmericanHeart Asrociation says something special about you. 

Come to the informational meeting 
It·s a gift ofbe.altll for future generations -an unselfish act 
Thursday, February 3rd
ofcaring. 

6:30 p.m.
Your gift will fund reseaich and educational programs to fight heart attack, stroke, high blood 


125 DeBartolo Hall 
pressure and otherautliovascular diseases. And bring othels the joy 
0!111111 and freedom ofgood health. 
Prof. Peri Arnold, Director 
Tolearn more about how you 
346 O'Shaughnessy
can leave alegacy for the furore, cal.l l-8~AHA-USAl. 

Peri.B.Arnold.1@nd.edu 
Do it today. 
This space provided as a public service. (.)1992. 1997, American Heart Association 
assistance," said Brandt. "The factor that might be over­



Rivals put lecture notes online
looked lhy the RAsl is finan­
students 
make good grades in all my understood 
classes." Ms. Wright said" "For the process 
other people to trust them, before applying, they would 
thal's their responsibility." face fewnr unpleasant surpris-­
II o u s t o n -b a s e d es. 
StudentC.com. along with Wagner did note a positive 
rivals Versity.com. based in aspect of Notre Dame's HA 
Palo Alto, Calif., and Miami­compensation policy. 
based Studv24-7.com, have "It helps them find people 
gone nation~idc with their lcr.­who are in it morn for Hw 
ture notes. They're free for dedication of" serving others 
anyone who surfs their sites, and not in it for the money," 
which generate revenue by she said. 
selling advertising. Although 93 current HAs 
Oran Wolf, who began a had jobs last year, having 
campus note-taking business another job is virtually impos­
at the Cniversity of llouston sible while serving as RA. The 
after seeing the success of RA benefit does not help pay 
Paradigm Books' operation at for the personal expenses that 
the University of Texas at arise. 
Austin, said the notes on "None of us really have 
StudentU.com are designed to spending money," said Lyons 
augment -not replace -stu­RA Heather Schomann. Lyons 
dents' own work. RAs have suggested a small 
'Tm hoping it opens up an wage for the hours spent on 
avenue for students to go and duty. Schomann said. 
participate in lectures," said Wolf, 28. Net Strategy Corp., an Internet venture capital firm 
less pres­sure to show up. "Students have always 
"No mat­
borrowed notes from 
ter how 
friends and classmates.
much Mr. Wolf and This is a little more 
o t h Cl r 
formal than the 
entrepre­
informal network." 
neurs say it's benefi­cial and 
Robert Berry
harmless, 
assistant finance professor,
tho fact 
University of Houston
remains that it puts the temp-
use the notes establish the quality control by rating the monitors' work. He acknowledges that his notP­takers may work without permission, but he's will­ing to back oIT if a professor demands that the note-tak­ing cease. 
"Wri don't want to step on any toes," Wolf said. "I love talking to professors and love meeting with them. One of the things we're building is a net­work of professors so they have a place to put their own notes online." 
The idea of sharing notes was nothing new for Sally Cole when she worked at Stanford University. Now executive director of the Center for Academic Integrity at Duke, Cole said online notes have madn waves in the !\Jorth Carolina academic community. 
"The only issue I've heard that may have some real sub­stance is the issue of intellectu­al property rights of faculty," Cole said. 
cial need." 
Scholarship assistance could be reduced if parental income increases significantly, or a family has one child in college instead of two. " 
Students said more steaight­
forward information from the University would be 
Associated Pres, 
1101.JSTON 
Oebra Wright either is an example of free enterprise nat­urally blending with academia or a threat to the fabric of higher education. It depends classes for the SArvice. 
The online notes concept has stirred ethics debates at cam­pus1>s nationwide and profes­
sors'  reactions  have  been  
mixed.  
PPler  Wood,  associate  

provost at Boston University, calls note-takers "a problem nibbling at the edge of higher education for a long time." lie said he's concerned that attcm­dance will drop in classrooms monitored by online note-tak­ers bC'cause students will feel takers. But he criticized Wolfs operation, saying Paradigm and other traditional services are in a different league because they use higher-paid graduate students as auditors and get the professors' permis­sion. 
"We're totally opposed to all these people," Pyeatt said. "l call them bootleg lecture notes. They do it wit.bout professors' approval. I'm kind of horrified by that." 
Wolf said the students who 
tation in the way of students who are less motivated and already, perhaps, in peril," Wood said. 
But Hobert Berry. an assis­tant professor of finance at the l.Jniversity of Houston. vouches for Wolf. saying he's had the best interests of both students and educators in mind since he opened his business. 
"Students always have bor• rowed notes from friends and classmates," Berry said. "This is a little more formal than the informal network." 
Paradigm Books owner Robert Pyeatt said his compa­ny's 26 years of experience has proved that a student's motiva­tion to attend class is indepen­dent of" the presence of note­

. 
Work In an Internship 

. 
Study Public Affairs 

. 
Fulfill Fine Arte Requirement 

. 
Study Foreign Polley 



Now --,p11c•~# 
-4'~ Fall 2000 ~ Spring•2001 
Deadline -Feb. 18th 







orld 

Monday, January 31, 2000 COMPILED J<'ROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Drug use among athletes taints Australian record 
SYDNEY 
J\t1stralia'1, high-profllc anti-doping stance was tarnished Monday whi\n national figures rnvnalnd that nearly 400 athletes have been caught using drug-s in the pa.st de<'.ade. The rPcPnt ban on cvdist Tim Lvons brought J\ustrnlia's total ;JUniber of athletes caught using illegal :;ubstanc1is in 10 yP-ars to ]76, thr Australian Sports Drug Agcnry said. The f'igurns were; disturbing for the Australian Olympir Comrnit1.(1<', prompting ntlls for stric't1\r pPtrnlities for drug cheats. "There is always the prosp1•ct or extenuating circum­stancPs but thP genNal rulH is that no atblf'if' slrnuld br, pleading "I didn't know," AOC sec­rnary general Craig YlcLatchey saidd 
New use for "the pill" now being advertised 
NEW YORK 
Drmand for onn brand ol' "the pill" is soar­ing. with a little help from sales to women who don't want it just as a contraceptive. SalPs of Johnson & Johnson's Or tho Tri­Cvdrn ('ontrac('ptivP pill hav<~ tripled in hf' last thref• Vl\1lfS, making it by far thn No.1 brand. partly bncausP it is the only oral con­tn11'<'Ptivc that also may b(' sold as an acne tightPr. Ashley Wcsson, 21, a college studem in rPntral TPxas said slw asked hf'r doctor last month if' slw could try the pill to help light her acnP. Slw wasn't looking for birth control, slw said adding, "Atrnady. I've noticed small diffnn•nces in ho\-\ quickly my farn heals." The Food and Drug Administration gave Johnson & Johnson the right lo sell Ortho Tri-Cvden for acnn in 1997 after studies found.it helped clear the skin of more than 80 percent of women who took it. 

Jockey found in tree 
HOLL\WOOD 
A dl'rnmposing body found hanging from a trnP at tlw llollvwood Park rare trar.k was idnnlilied as a j1;rkey who committed suidde, a roroner's investigator said. John Suarez was found Thursday by track sncurity gueard, Los Angeles County coronor's investigator Dana Ben said Saturday. Suarez, who was injured and liv1,d at the track. had been dead about a month. BeP said. IIP was hanging for a tree by a noose in a secluded area of the track grounds. Suarez was wearing only long untlcrw\',H. Ile was identified by his llollvwood Park id(•ntificalion, which was found in a jacket n<'arby, Ree said . .Jockeys and trairn~rs had br.Pn complaining for more than thrnr. wer.ks about a foul odor on the cast side or tlw practir.e track. Bee said. Family members said he was depressed about a worker's compen,-;taion claim he had trouble cn!lf'c'ting, Bee said 

ltib•HaWA1Mt1J:¦
Dow c\MEx: 
868.24 JONES -l•U6 
Nasdaq:
-289.15 

3887.07 
-15'.!.:19 
1'YSE:: 
611.81 
-l-1.95 

S&P 500: Com posit~ 1360. 16 
Volume:
10738.87 183,093,200
-38.40 

VOLUME LEADERS 
COHPAH'Y TICKER 'tl. CHANGI: ! C'HMi'GB PR.!CI!! 
oi.u C'f')Kl)t.J'l'ER Drt.L. -0 .@'! -0. '!12~ l1. 2S Oil.AC.ti!: CORP ORCL -8.55 _,. ,3.a5 4 7. 38 QUALCOMM INC QCOK -? .87 -3 .4400 110.56 CONE'V.NT SY9 CNXr -l .21 -1.06:2S. Sti .'SO COMPl,.Q COMPUTSR CP2 -1. 7t -o. 5000 27.SO MICROSOP''I' COki ~SFT -0.51 -0.5000 39.25 rnnt. ct>"Rl' lNTC -,L20 --1.1:lSO l';,4;_f)C) C13C'O SYBT!MS CBCO -2.57 -2. 7450 }OJ. 88 8.IOOBN INC .BGE!'l -7. &6 -1. t.3'15 &2.2S MCI WORLDCOH IN WCOK -l.. zo -0 .SOSO 41.62 
NORTHERN IRELAND 

Associated Press 
BELFAST 
Northern Ireland's peace process lurchnd Sunday toward a new crisis as rival parties stepped up a war of words on the eve of a make-or-break report on disarmament in the British province. 
Monday's report by Canadian General John de Chastelain, head of the province's independent disarmament body, is widely expected to say Irish Republican Army (IRAi guerrillas have pro­duced no concrete evi­dence of' being ready to disarm. 
Northern Ireland's main Protestant political group, the Ulster Unionist Party (UUP). has threatened to pull out of the province's fledgling, power-sharing government with Roman Catholics if the IRA fails to start disarming. 
It has called a top-level party meeting for February 12 but UUP leader David Trimble and the British government could come under pressure from the majority Protestant com­m unity to act earlier against the IRA's political ally Sinn Fein. 
"People want a genuine peace, with an absence of paramilitarism, with an 
absence of paramilitaries and their weapons," said Trimble, First Minister in the province's home-rule government. 
Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams said: "I understand why unionists want decom­missioning [disarmament]. It is just not within my grasp to deliver it on their terms, and neither is it my responsibility." 
Britain is under mount­ing pressure from Trimble and the UUP to suspend the power-sharing govern­ment if Monday's report shows no firm signs of the IRA giving up weapons used in a 30-year guerrilla war against British rule. 
Political sources said Britain and the Irish Republic sponsors of a landmark 1998 peace accord for Northern Ireland hoped the report would contain some posi­tive elements so any fallout would be limited. 
The Ireland Sunday newspaper said de Chastelain would tell the two governments that the IRA had put most of its weapons in sealed secret dumps in the Irish Republic. 
It quoted senior republi­can sources as saying there would be no actual arms handover by February 12. 
RUSSIA 
More Chechen rebels continue to surrender 
Associated I'rcss 
MOSCOW 
Russia announced a new wave of surrenders by Chechen rebels Sunday, but top generals said fierce battles lay ahead in teir bid to cap­ture the separatist region's capital and remote mountain areas. 
The generals got solid backing for their four­monlh-old campaign from the patriarch of the Russian Orthodox church, who said their battle against "terrorism" was a just one. 
In Grozny. shrouded in thick smokP-and all but left in ruins by a stalled russian assault, snipers kept Russian troops in check despite stepped-up bombardments by russian warplanes, 
lnterfax news agency quoted the press service of pro-Russian Chechen leader Bislan Gantamirov as saying the 70 rebels had given up over the last 24 hours. He said that matched Saturday's total number of surrenders. 
The numbers were at odds with the 95 surren­ders announced by Russia's new spokesman on the conflict, Sergei yastrzhembsky. on Saturday. That report was swiftly denied by the Chechen rebels. 
"[The surrenders]have a psychological impact and constitute a breakthrough in events," Gantamirov was quoted as saying, 
"They serve as an example for thcose hun­dreds of fighters, includ­ing youngsters who have been tricked into warfare, or forced under fear of death to fight on the side of the bandits." Gantamirov, who com­
mands 800 paramilitaries, siad he expected further surrenders in the coming davs. 
Russia's ORT public television reported that 128 fightnrs, including three women, had given themselves up, but offered few details and there were no official announcements to that effect. 
Orthodox Patriarch Alexiy II told reporters after bestowing awards on generals and politi­cians that the army was right to proceed with the war. 
... • 
r 
page 6 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, January 31, 2000 
CUBA 
Elian's grandlllothers return to celebrations 
Associated Press 
HAVANA 
Elian Gonzalez's grand­mothers arrived back in Cuba on Sunday without the child they had hoped to bring home, but they were greeted as heroes nonetheless with an enormous government-orga­nized parade through the streets of the Cuban capital. 
"It's verv sad," said the boy's mate1=nal grandmother, Raquel Rodriguez, breaking down in tears before President Fidel Castro and 1,700 schoolchildren who greeted the grandmothers at Havana's Convention Palace. 
"You are here and Elian cannot be because we could not bring him," she said. 
Before leaving Dulles International Airport in sub­urban Washington on Sunday, Elian's paternal grandmoth­er, Mariela Quintana, 
said the boy "I would like to thank the 
d a i I ywould never American people and the events, be happy 
s o m e
Cuban Americans who 
growing up 
drawing
are here and who have 
in the United 
massive States helped us. We would like crowds, to "because he 
to remind them to keep demand 
grew up in the child's 
Cuba.... He helping us, because Elian 
return to is a Cuban is still here. " his father. bov. He has a 
Since the 
father. He 
two grand­
Raquel Rodriguez 
has four 
mothers 
grandparents maternal grandmother 
1 e f t 
newspapers here Sunday. 
Elian was found floating in an inner tube off the Florida coast on Nov. 25 after a boat wreck that killed his mother and l 0 other people. He has been staying with a great­uncle in Florida ever since. His Florida relatives are seek­ing to kocp Elian in the United States. while his father and other relatives in Cuba are fighting to get him back. 
The little boy also is caught in the midst of a major propa­ganda battle between Castro's communist government and some Cuban -American exile groups. Some of the exile groups have complained that the bov should not return to his l'atl1er because it would be a victory for the Cuban leader. 
The struggle over Elian has become one of the largest government t:arnpaigns in r e c e n t Cuban his­tory, with 
and an entire family back there." 
The boy's rather, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, embraced the women as they stepped off a business jet at Jose Marti International Airport, then rode with them in a con­vertible as thev waved at the crowds of hu11dreds of thou­sands of people holding Cuban flags in a scene remi­niscent of the 1998 grneting for Pope John Paul II. 
After an hourlong, 16-mile trip through Havana by motorcade, the t½'o women wept as the children greeted them with cheers ol' "Free Elian!" at the Convention Palace. 
Flanked bv their extended families. th·e women heard children chant poems and sing songs in their honor. 
Government television and radio stations. which broad­cast the event live. had repeatedly announced the route of the "caravan of dig­nity," and newspapers pub­lished schedules for special buses to take people to it. The event had been announced less than 24 hours before it took placo. 
Even the national soccer championship game, which had been scheduled for Sunday in Havana, was post­poned for a week so players and spectators could attend the event. 
The grandmothers were returning after "brave and extraordinary work in the L'nited States, overcoming great obstacles and transmit­ting a persuasive message to the U.S. people," said a gov­ernment statement published on the front pages of all 
Havana on 
Jan. 21, the government has given increasingly massive televi­sion and newspaper coverage to their tour of the United States, crediting them with 
helping sway U.S. public opin-r-----------------------------------------. 
ion toward Elian's return. 
"The heroic behavior of these humble and good­natured grandmothers has gained the respect, the admi­ration of the people who will await them with a warm and massive reception," the gov­ernment's statemenl said. 
The women -until rncently obscure housewives from the provincial city of Cardenas ­have found themselves on worldwide television meeting congressmen. senators and 
U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno. 
"We think we have a step forward but still my grandson is here," Rodriguez, the maternal grandmother, said before leaving Washington. 
"l would like to thank the American people and the Cuban Americans who are here and who have helped us," she said. "We would like to remind them to keep help­ing u.~· because Elian is stHI here. 
The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service has ruled Elian should be returned to his father. But officials are awaiting the out­come of a federal court chal­lenge Gled by Miami relatives before trying to return the boy. 
U.S. District Judge William Hoeveler will hear arguments Feb. 22 on whether the Miami relatives' lawsuit should be dismissed. 

Love: Interracial Dating 
Dinner and Panel Discussion 
Wednesday -February 2, 2000 @5:30 p.m. 
Center for Social Concerns 
RSVP to OMSA@ 1-6841 by Monday, January 31 
AUSTRIA 
Minister: Haider must ease up 
Asso~iated Press 
VIENNA 
The man negotiating a pos­si bln coalition government with Joerg llaider's far-right Freedom Party called Sunday for the party tu soften its opposition to European inte­gration and to prove itself ready for the responsibilities of power. 
Foreign Minister Wolfgang Schuessel, head ot' the Austrian People's Party, defended his decision to enter coalition talks with Haider's party despite Haidcr's past remarks against immigration, against the European Union and in sympathy with aspects of Adolf llitlcr's regime. Schuessel said he would never let Austria be-branded 
a. "nco-Nazi country." 
Schuessel and llaidcr are scheduled to inform President Thomas Klestil on Monday whether they believe they will succeed in forming a new government. Klestil could accnpt a government with the Freedom Party in it or he could call for new elec­tions. 
The prospect of Haider joining the government has stunned European leaders, many of whom face their own domestic challenges from radical right-wing groups which might be emboldened by the success of the Freedom Party here. 
"Austria must see to it not to isolate itself politically," German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder told the Bild am Sonntag newspaper. 
During an interview Sunday on Austrian televi­
sion, Schuessel, who is expected to become chancel­lor in the new coalition if it succeeds, said he would "not. let Austria simply be stamped as a 'neo-Nazi country' with a new Ilitler image." 
Schuessel sought to ease fears abroad that Austria. which was absorbed into Hitler's Germany in 1938, had forgotten its role in the crimes of the Nazi regime. 
"In the dark period of the Nazi era, many Austrians were responsible for terrible crimes," Schuessel said. "Any state which wants to be credible and to have a future simply cannot wipe that away and say, 'it didn't hap­pen."' 
Schuessel said that if coali­tion talks were to succeed. "a large portion of' the Freedom Party must change. They must move away from the l'undamental opposition to Europe." 
Schuessel's remarks did lit­tll~ tu silence critics, espe­cially Social Democrats who hlame him for the collapse of the 13-year center-left coali­tion following inconclusive Oct. 3 parliamentary elec­tions. The Social Democrats and the People's Party tried unsuccessfully to renew their coalition afterward. 
Caretaker finance Minister Hudolf Edlinger, a Social Democrat, said the country finds itself at the center of' controversy "because our foreign minister apparently doesn't take the situation seriously." 
"Schuessel is apparently prepared to pay any price so that he can become chancel­lor," Edlinger said. 
There was also no sign that Haider was backing down in the face of international out­rage. Asked by the Austrian Press Agency about French and Belgian criticism, Haider said French President .Jacques Chirac should "mind his own business" and called the Belgian government "corrupt." 
Haider won international notoriety a decade ago after praising Hitler's "orderly employment policy," and later for lauding veterans of the Waf'fen SS as "decent people of good character." He has been apologizing ever sint:e. 
On Saturday, Haider pre­dicted that a government featuring his party would impose a nearly complete ban on immigration. 
Immigration has become a contentious issue in a coun­try that considers itself the frontier of the European Union. Many of those who voted for the Freedom Party in October were young men who fear that EU expansion and a liberal immigration policy will cost them their jobs to a Hood of immigrants from the former Communist countries of central and east­ern Europe. 
Elsewhere Sunday: a German talk show said it had uninvited Haider after other guests scheduled on the pro­gram with him said they wouldn't show up. Haider was to have appeared Sunday night on ARD televi­sion's "Sabine Christiansen" with German Interior Minister Otto Schily and Michel Friedman. a vice president of the Central Council of .Jews in Germany. 
-WWW ¥ 
Monday, January 31, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Report: Priests dying of AIDS 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 
Homan Catholic priests in the United States are dying from AIDS-related illnesses at a rate four times higher than the general population and the causP is often conrcalcrl on their death certificates, The Kansas City Star report­et!. 
In the first of a three-part series, tlrn newspaper said death certificates and inter­vimvs wiLh experts indicateu several hundred priests havfl dird of AIDS-related illnesses since tlrn miu-1980s and hun­dn~cts more are living with 
IIIV. tbc virus that causes the disease. 
"I think this speaks to a fail­ure on the µart of the church," said Auxiliary Bishop Thomas Gumbleton of the Archdiocese of l)f!troiL "Gay priests and lwtProsexual priests didn't know bow Lo handle Lheir sex­uality, their snxual drive. And so t!rny would handle it in ways that were not healthy." 
The Star rnc:eivcd 80 I responses to qur.stionnairns that were sent last fall to 
3.000 of the 46,000 priests in the United States. The margin of error of the survey was 3.5 percentage points. 
Six of 10 priests responding said they knew of at least one priest who had died of an i\lDS-relatPd illness. and one­third knew a priest living with /\IDS. Three-fourths said the church ncediid to provide more education to seminari­ans on sexual issues. 
"How to be celibate and to be gay at the same time, and how to be celibate and hetero-
Four injured as train crashes into home
sexual at the same time, that's what. we were nevAr rcallv taught how to do. And tha·t was a major failing," Gumbleton said. 
Asked about their sexual orientation, 75 percent said they were heterosexual, 15 percent said they were homo­sexual. and 5 percent said they were bisexual. 
The Rev. John Keenan, who runs Trinity House, an outpa­tient clinic in Chicugo for priests, said he believes most priests with AIOS contracted After an AIDS activist filed a 
complaint, officials changed 
the cause of death to "HIV­
related illness,'' the Star said, 
but the occupation was not 
corrected. 
The newspaper said the 
·death rate among priests from AIDS appears to be at least four times that of the rate for the general U.S. population. 
Some priests and behavioral 
experts believe the church has 
scared priests into silence by 
treating homosexual acts as 
an abomination and the 
the disease through same­sex relations. "/ think this speaks to a 
He said he failure on the part ofthe 
treated one 
church. Gay priests and
priest who had infecterl eight heterosexual priests other priests. 
didn't know how to handle 
The Star said 
their sexuality, their
precise num­bers of priests sexual drive. And so they 
who have died would handle it in ways
of AIDS or 
that were not healthy " 
become infect­ed with HIV is unknown, Thomas Gumbleton partly because 
auxifiary bishop of the 
manv suffer in 
archdiocese of Detroit
solit~de. When priests tell their superi­ors, the cases 
breaking of celiba­cy vows as shame­ful, thi> Star said. 
Catholic · cardinals in the United States and high-r an king church officials i.n t h e Vatican declined requests to discuss the news­p aper' s 

SafeRide Coordinator Needed 
Student Government Wants to Bring SafeRide Back to You But, We Need A Coordinator 5-10 Hours/Week 
$$$ Extra Cash $$$ 
Work With Student Government and the Security Office For Info Call: 631-9888 
Bringing it 

Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Md. 
A coal train derailed Sunday morning near the Maryland-West Virginia bor­der, sending one of its cars plowing into a house and raining coal and debris on the five people who lived there. One woman was seri­ously injured and her teen­age son was missing, state police said. 
Scores of rescue workers with dogs continued search­ing through spilled coal, rub­ble and heavy snow Sunday evening for the missing boy. State Police Cpl. David Broadwater said. 
Thirty-six of the train's 80 cars, all carrying coal, 
The Russells' silverware got caught in a forest fire. 

So did the Russells. 
Today more and more people are living closer ;nd closer to the forests. Thats why, today forest fires kill more than trees. Please be careful. 
' Only you can prevent forest fires. 
A Public Seroice ofth£ AdCouncil, th£ USDA. Forest Service andyourState Forester. 
derailed shortly after 6:30 
a.m ., CSX spokesman Gary Wollenhaupt said. 
At least one rail car crashed into the two-story wooden house, which was pushed 25 feet off its founda­tion. 
The cause of the derail­ment was not immediatelv determined. · 
Rescue workers extricated Libby HolstAin, 35; her daughter Brandy Holstein, 18; Eugene Liller, 32; and his daughter Amanda Liller, 
13. Mrs. Holstein was in seri­ous condition at Cumberland Memorial Hospital. State police said the others were not seriously injured. 
The two crew members on the train were not hurt. 
generally are handled quietly. 
The newspaper cited the case of Bishop Emerson Moore, who left the Archdiocese of :\Jew York in 1995 and went to Minnesota, where he died in a hospice of an /\IDS-related illness. His death certificate attributed the death to "unknown natural causes" and listed his occupa­tion as "laborer" in the manu­facturing industry. 

findings, The Star reported. The Vatican referred ques­tions to local bishops. 
Bishop Raymond Boland of the Diocese of Kansas City-St. Joseph said the AIDS deaths show that priests are human. 
"Much as we would regret it, it shows that human nature is human nature," he said. "And all of us are heirs to all of the misfortunes that can be foisted upon the human race." 

I  
page 8  The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS  Monday, January 31, 2000  

RUSSIA 
Albright urges for an end to Chechnya lllilitary offensive 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
Secretary of State Madeleine Albright said Sunday that Russia's acting president is "riding a tiger" by pushing a military offensive against rebels in Chechnya. 
"TherC' is no ques­tion the war is pop­u I a r 

Albright
Albright t o I d reporters as she flew here to size up Vladimir Putin and push arms control. 
Albright. noted that casual­ties are mounting and said Hussia faces more isolation in the international arena as the war drags on. "They have to hear over and over again that this is not working for them," Albright said. 
She said he was "hoping to 
have a meaty session" with 
Putin when they get together 
this week. 
Persistent U.S. appeals to Russian leaders to end the conflict and negotiate with the Chechnya separatists have failed. Albright did not predict success this time, either, and she ruled out U.S. economic sanctions if persuasion does not work. 
Still, Albright said. "It is very clear to me that Russia is hurting itself because of Chechnya." 
In what could turn out to be a tradcoff, Albright was ready to discuss sharp cuts in U.S. 
and Russian long-range unfulfilled." nuclPar arsenals while urging lier scheduled meeting with Putin to approve "modest Putin will be the first by a top­adjustments" in a ban on mis­r an ked U.S. official since sile defenses. Boris Yeltsin quit as president 
Just before landing in New Year's Eve and named Moscow, she said talk of such the former KC B domestic a tradeoff is "hypothetical." intelligence chief as his suc­
A deal would make it easier cessor. Elections are due in for the Clinton administration three months. to go forward with a $6.6 bil­Albright "wants to get a lion plan for a defense against firsthand assessment of how missiles fired from Iran, North he intends to operate now that Korea or other countries the he's the acting president, United States considers rogue which brings additional states. responsibilities," the State 
Before taking off, Albright Department spokesman James warned in a speech to the Hubin said last week. World Economic Forum that Albright has described him "economic anxieties" in coun­as a leading reformer, but tries with democratically ·also said the administration elected governments were was not "starry-eyed" about prompting the people to turn Hussia's future. to authoritarianism and other Russia has registered its failed rnmedies. opposition to missile defense 
She said life in parts of the systems as potentially fueling former So\'iet Union often is a race to develop more power­tougher for ordinary people ful nuclear weapons to over­than when Communists ruled. come them. 
"A majority of citizens in A 1972 U.S.-Russia treaty 
t  h  e  s  e  bans  missile  
countries  defenses,  but  
h  a  v  e  ''.A majority ofcitizens in  the  Clinton  
come to equate democra­cy with  these countries have come to equate democracy with inequality, insecurity and  administration wants to make changes in it to go ahead with  
inequali­tv, insecu­r0ity and  the unraveling ofthe social fa bric. "  its program. At the same time, Russia  
t  h  e  wants to go fur­ 
unravel­ing of the social fab­ Madeline Albright Secretary of State  th er than the United States has proposed in  
ric,"  she  cutting nuclear  
said. "We  missile stock- 

are concerned that in many piles. countries, the arrival of elec­Albright intends to renew a tor al democracy has been U.S. pitch that the Russian accompanied by economic parliament ratify the 1993 expectations that are, as yet, START II treaty, which calls 
for reducing the U.S. and adjustments" in the 1972 Russian arsenals of long­Anti-Ballistic MissilP Treaty range nuclear warheads to that banned national missile 3,000 to 3,500 apiece. defenses on the theory that 
But even Yeltsin's endorse­the prospect of devastating ment failed to convince retaliation would forestall a nationalists in the parliament nuclear attack. to approve the agreement. It "Any recognition by Russia also did not persuade some that amendments to the ABM 
Russian  treaty  can  be  
military chiefs  "Any recognition by  accomplished without under­ 
w  h  o  Russia that amendments  mining the fun­ 
object to the treaty partly because it  to the ABM treaty can be accomplished without undermining the  damental pur­pose of' the ABM treaty would be a welcome step  
eliminates Russia's edge in s o m e  fundamental purpose of the ABM treaty would be a welcome step in the  in the right direction, because it would mean  
weapons and would  right direction ... "  that they have understood that  
require large out­ James Rubin  there arc dan­gers," Rubin  
lays b u  i  to 1 d  State Department spokesman  said. Albright also  
allowable  is  bound again  

weapons in other categories. to register strong U.S. con­
The Clinton administration demnation or the Hussian mili­has proposed a follow-up tary assault on Chechnya, START III treaty, setting a even while supporting ceiling for both Russia and the Russia's authority to counter United States of 2,000 to terrorism and secession in the 2,500 warheads. Hussia wants rebellious republic. even deeper cutbacks, possi­On Monday, she is to have bly to 1,500 strategic war­three meetings with Foreign heads on each side. Minister Igor Ivanov and to 
That could ease the econom­see Israeli Foreign Minister ic strain ol' building up to David Levy and Prince Saud, allowable ceilings in some Saudi Arabia's foreign minis­weapons categories. ter. They will be in Moscow 
Hubin said these approaches for a meeting Tuesday of Arab have been under discussion and Israeli officials on ways to with Russia for several promote economic develop­months, and the talks will ment of the region. continue during Albright's King Abdullah of Jordan visit. said at the economic confer­
Al the same time, he said, ence on Sunday that economic Albright would like lo see cooperation is "the way of the Russia agree to "modest future" in the Middle East. 

Justafraction of~at we spendon 
sportscan help keep society mshape. 
, I ' five hours of volunteer time
Its so ~yto he Pyou: rweek the standard of 
commuruty, when you thmk ~ . . Arn • 
· givmg 111 enca.
b
a out it. · · 1 ed 'th th 
Millions of people have G• FJ Get mvo v Wlboute 
helped make five percent IVe lye. cause; yo~ car~ a 
of their incomes and What_VOll§(/,!!f!.~:!fa•l11,as11rable and give five. 
UNDERGRAD SUMMER RESEARCH GRANTS 
INFORMATION SESSION 
Got a research project you want to work on this summer? Perhaps a senior thesis or honors paper? 
The Kellogg Institute for International Studies gives several summer research grants ofup to $3,000 each year for research on international topics. 
Come to a meeting on 
Monday, January 31 at 5:00 pm DeBartolo 131 
Or contact Professor Michael Francis (1-5203) Applications for the Kellogg Underdraguate Summer Research Grants are avilable at 
216 Hesburgh Center or 200 Security Building 

Monday, January 31, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Shuttle's engines declared safe to fly 
Associated Pres• 
CAPE CANAVElv\L. Fla. 
With onlv hours rnmaining lrnfore lif'to!T. NASA on Sunday dticlared space shuttle Endeavour's engines safo to fly despite lingering uncertainty ovnr two rue! pump seals. 
The announcPrnent kPpt Endeavour on track for a Monday afternoon launch on an Earth-mapping mission. Thick clouds. however, could slill force a dclav. 
Shuttle m·anagers ordered an nxhaustivc review of seals in Endeavour's fuel lurbop­
"ft goes back to. how
urnps latn last fly, he said. week af'tHr a likely is it that you will The nick­ddective seal e 1-µlated
haue a defect?"
turned up in seals. each one th~• shut­made of six tle's main Ron Dittemore segments, 
engines. Shuttle program manager help dirnct 
The bad seal should have hcP-n thrown away as a fac­tory reject., but instead was installed in a fuel pump that l'lew on Discovery six weeks ago. It also flew on Discovery in October 1998 -the llight that returned John Glenn to orbit ­and on Endeavour earlier that year. 
NASA was able to determine, through documents, that 16 of 18 seal segments on Endeavour's three fuel pumps are certified and good. The paperwork on the two remain­ing seals is missing. 
Even though shuttle managers cannot prove the two seals are certified for flight. shuttle man­agers concluded Sunday after­noon that Endeavour's engines am safe and voted unanimously to proceed with the launch as planned. 
Shuttle program manager Ron DittemorP said the likelihood of another defective seal turning up on one of Endeavour's three 
engines is "very, very, very low." 
"ll goes back to, how likdy is it that you'll have a defect? Very low. And what is your test expe­rience? Overwhelmingly posi­tive," Dittemore said Sunday. "Then you look at your design, and your design is to be very safe. And you look at those, and it's a compelling story." 
Dittemore said NASA will con­tinue to search for the paper­work detailing the history of the two seals. NASA also will review the paperwork for seals in all its other l'uel pumps before clear­ing any more shuttle engines to 
hot gas into 
the turbine 
blades to 
increase engine performance. If a seal should fail, an engine could shut down during launch and force an emergency landing. 
Dittemore said the defective seal worked fine, but during the lasl launch, the nickel plating came loose in one spot and the turbine blades gouged a groove into it. 
He said the odds that it ended up in an engine, rather than in the garbage, are extremely small. 
On Saturday, Dittemore said the defective seal had flown on six space shuttle launches. He corrected himself Sunday, say­ing it flew on three launches and was test-fired three times at Stennis Space Center in Mississippi. 
Endeavour's radar-mapping mission originally was sched­uled for September, but was held up by damaged wiring found throughout the shuttle. 
BOUTIQUE EXCHANGE 
f x~ rJ0-M--U~ $k0-p J>eu(jl4M !3'l-a.ncU !J. Vint~ f,o.;z, Men & Wa.me,n, 
UP TO 508/o OFF SELECTED ITEMS 
'.\1-F IO am to 8 pm Saturday IO am to 6 pm Sunday 12 pm to 4 pm 2324 Miracle Lane Town and Country Shopping Center 257-070 I 
Class teaches weight management 
--------~---­Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Ky. 
To students in Tracy Tighe's weight maintenance class, dieting is about more than merely looking good in a bathing suit or dropping an inch olT their waists. 
for most, struggling with obesity and trying to dodge cardiovascular disease, dia­betes or cancer, it's a matter of lifo and death. 
Each of the 16 men and women who attended Tighe's class on a recent Monday evening had already completed an intense weight-loss pro­gram run by doctors at the University of Kentucky Medical Cenler and Ilcalih Management Resources, a pri­vate, Roston-based company. 
For weeks, months even, they fasted under a doctor's supervision, subsisting on a diet of l'ive weight-loss milk­shakes or three shakes plus two low-calorie packaged meals per day -800 to 900 calories total. Patients lose an average of 65 pounds over five months in the program. 
Now, having come through an ordeal of self-denial that most people cannot even imag­ine, they face an even tougher challenge: keeping the weight off. 
"It's one of the hardest 
things I do in this program, is 
the day-in and day-out mainte­
nance," said Lynne Cassidy, 
who lost 85 pounds in the 
HMR-UK program in 1988 and 
now serves as the program's 
coordinator. 
However, a new study by Dr. James Anderson, the pro­gram's director and a profes­sor of clinical nutrition at the University of Kentucky, sug­gests that patients who par­ticpate in very low-calorie diets and in follow-up classes like Tighe's fare significantly better than other dieters in the battle to maintain weight loss. 
In an article published in December in the Journal of the American College of Nutrition, Anderson reported on a follow­up study of 112 people who entered the UK-HMR program in 1989 and 1990 and stayed with it through at least 12 weeks of rapid weight loss. After more than five years of follow-up, he wrote, patients maintained an average of said. "That's very hard to do. nearly 23 percent of their ini­So we think it's better to bite tial weight loss. the bullet and go on, if you 
That may not sound like will, starvation rations under much, but consider that medical supervision." national health authorities at That's what 43-year-old the federal Food and Drug Janet Whitaker, a producer at Administration and the the Kentucky public television National Institutes of Health, network KET, did in October judge a weight-loss treatment 1998, breaking an unhealthy to be successful if participants cycle of stress-fueled junk food 
maintain  a  consump­ 
loss of 5 per­cent of their  "It's one of the hardest  tion by enrolling  
initial body weight. By this standard, 40 percent of  things I do in this program, is the day-in and day-out  in the UK­HMR pro­gram. "I never  
the individu­ maintenance."  really got  
als studied by  the  con­ 
And,~rson achieved suc­cess after five  Lynn Cassidy HMR-UK program coordinator  cept of healthy eating,"  

years. 
At seven years. 25 percent of the people studied had successfully main­tained a weight loss of at least 10 percent of' their initial body weight. 
"I think our data points out that many people are keeping the weight off long-term." Anderson said. "Not everyone's being successful, but people are being successful." 
Anderson said his results at least point toward a solution to what he terms an epidemic of American obesity that is fuel­ing increased rates of diabetes, hypertension and coronary heart disease. According to Anderson, more than half of American adults are over­weight and obesity is responsi­b I e for more than 300,000 early deaths in the United States each year. 
HMR currently contracts with the University of Kentucky and more than 400 other med­ical institutions around the country to provide medically­supervised weight manage­ment programs. The programs can cost up to $400 a month for shakes and low-calorie meals, blood tests and medical supervision. They frequently are not covered by health insurance plans. 
However, programs like Anderson's are often the only choice for severely overweight patients. 
"If someone needs to lose 80 pounds, and they lose a pound a week, they'll have to diet for 80 weeks. That's more than a year and a half," Anderson 
Whitaker 
recalled. 
She lost 35 pounds in the program and now is in mainte­nance. Last fall, she ran a 5­kil orneter road race. some­thing she never would have dreamed of 15 months ago. 
Weekly attendance at follow­up classes like the one taught by Tracy Tighe is crucial to keep the weight off, Whitaker said. 
"I like it," she said, "I like the people I went through it with." 
The classes are more than a support group, however. The petite, energetic Tighe is more coach than cheerleader, hold­ing her students accountable in their efforts to comply with the program's "triple imperative" for maintaining weight loss: at least 2,000 calories of physical activity a week, at least five servings of fruits and vegeta­bles a day and consumption of at least 14 meal-replacement shakes a week. 
Careful planning is essential to preventing weight gain, Tighe tells the class. They must make sure they empty their homes of unhealthy foods and keep enough meal-replace­ment shakes and fruits and vegetables at hand. 
For these dieters, eliminating choices about what to eat is key. After the class, Tighe dis­cusses what she and her stu­dents call "the gap" -the chasm between the lifestyle that UK-HMR are patients are trying to lead and the daily temptations offered by America's drive-thru, super­sized, deep-fried culture. 
Ot'\Campw• Jlfflior PanmtWu'kfflt, Special ¥em4A1'\f 17-ll, l~ 
Come early; stay late, same price! 
Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms 
available for your parents. Weekend eos1 is $60.00 per parent. Whether you stay Two, three, or fOll" ni\Jlts. Rooms Em availabJe Thursday through Sunday. 
For reservations, caU 21a.631-7512. 


Your telephone can make the dif. ference between a stroke that may take afew weeks of recovery and one that takes a life. Because the faster you call an ambulance and get to the hospital, the greater your chance of limiting brain injury. For more information call the AHA's Stroke Connection at l-800-553-€32.1 
American Heart Association. 
1hil ~Pl'O'llded as tt ptb(ieseMOt. 01992, Amel1Cllln Heal1Associstl0n 
page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, January 31, 2000 
ALL UNDERGRADUATE CLUBS ARE REQUIRED TO ATTEND ONE OF THE SPRING CLUB INFO MEETINGS. 
All Club Info Meetings will be held in the Center for Social Concerns, and each meeting typically lasts one hour. 
During the meeting, each clubs will also p~ voting on three division representatives for the Club Coordination Council (CCC). This is your opportunity to have a say in who allocates your student activities fees to the 200 undergraduate clubs! 
Meeting dates are as follows: 
Monday, January 31 9:30pm -Academic Clubs 
Tuesday, February 1 7:00pm -Service/Social Action Clubs 9:00pm -Special Interest Clubs 
Wednesday February 2 8:00pm -Athletic Clubs 9:30pm -Ethnic Clubs 
Club Registration Packets will be also distributed at each of the meetings. If you have any questions about the registration process, please refer to the following web page: www.nd.edu/~sao/clubs/registration.htm 
Clubs which fail to attend one ofthe meetings may not be eligible to applyfor recognition for the following academic year. 
PLEASE REMEMBER THAT ALL CLUBS MUST HAVE THEIR CONSTITUTIONS SUBMITTED ELECTRONICALLY (TO STUDENT ACTIVITIES) BY TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, IN ORDER TO BE CONSIDERED FOR RECOGNITION AND BE ELIGIBLE FOR AN ALLOCATION FROM THE CCC. 
Monday, January 31, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
TURKEY
LEBANON 
Pro-Israel leader killed 
Muslims focus on women's rights 
in house boinbing 
Associated Press 
Associated Press 
MARJAYOUN 
The assassination of a second­highest ranking pro-Israeli mili­tia leader Sunday has dealt a Sl'VI\TP blow to Israel's allies in occupied South Lebanon. 
Lebanes1! security oilicials said Col. Akl llashPm of the South Lebanon Army militia was work­ing in an orchard near his house in Dihel village when a bomb wPnt off killing him instantly. The SI.A said in a statenwnl the bomb exploded outside his home, but did not elaborate. 
Earlier reports Prroneously said llashcm was killed by a roadside bombing of' his convoy. 
Hashem. 48. was regarded as the likely successor of Gen. Antoine Lahd, the commander of' the Israeli-backed militia. 
The Iranian-backed llezbollah guerrilla group claimed responsi­bility. Its Voicn of' Al-Noor radio broadcast statements calling Ilashem a criminal and adding that his assassination was "a grnat qualitative achievement in the l'rarnework of dismantling the militia." 
The SLA's 2,:iOO solcliPrs help 1,500 lsrar.Ii soldiers control a swath of' South Lebanon occupied bv Israel. Israel calls the area a security zone. using it as a buffer against guerrillas attacks on its northern towns. Ilezbollah is leading the war to liberate tlw arna. 
SU\ militiamen sealed off the site of' thn attack, a fnw miles north of' tlw Israeli border and 20 miles southwest ol' Marjayoun, the main town in thr. occupied enclave. 
Witnesses said civilians in areas outside Israeli control cele­brated Hashem's killing. 
The attack came amid rising tl!nsion in southern Lebanon in recent days in which two guerril­las and an Israeli_ soldier were killed in separate dashes. Israel has warned that tlrn hostilities could undermine the Syrian­Israeli peace talks, which are already on icu. 
Israeli Prime Minister Ehud 
Barak told reporters in Cairo, 
where he held talks with Egypt's President Hosni Mubarak, that Isrmil would retaliate. 
"I believe that this incident emphasizes the potential !'or a detrrioration in the atmosphere in Lebanon. We will do every­thing so that those who harmed Ak1 Hashem will receive their just punishment and I expect that the situation won't deteriorate," Barak said. 
Ephraim Sneh, Israel's deputy defense minister and a former commander of' [sraeli forces in South Lebanon, accused Syria of ordering the bombing. "This shows that Damascus is not real­Iv interest('d in the success of the (peace] negotiations," he told Israeli radio stations. 
Syria is the main power-broker in Lebanon. 
Hashem was commander of the Western flrigade of the SLA, in charge of about 1,000 men from areas west of Marjayoun all the wav to the Mediterranean coast. 
/\. Maronite Catholic, Hashem was a former Lebanese army sergeant who joined the ranks of Israeli-allied militiamen in 1976. 
Lahd, the SLA leader, was reported to be considering quit­ting and moving to France and Hashem was billed in the local press as the best hope to keep the heavily armed SLA unified. 
IIashem's death is expected to reduce the morale of the SLA, which has been shaken by guer­rilla attacks and by Barak's pledge to withdraw from Lrbanon by July, with or without a peace agreement with Lebanon. 
But pulling out without an 
ANKARA 
Even in death, Konca Kuris was denied hor last wish ­that women he allowed to pray alongside men. It was a desire that cost the religious feminist her life at the hands of Islamic radicals. 
Police dug up Kuris' naked body from the basement of a hideout used by Islamic mili­tants who videotaped weeks of abuse they inflicted before suffocating her. The bodies of dozens of male victims also have been found and a sec­ond female victim was discov­ered Friday. 
The killings have horrified the country, hut Kuris' slav­ing also has focused attention on the role of women in lslam, a nashpoint that was underscored when male rela­tives al her funeral last week refused to allow her eldest daughter to pray beside her coffin. 
"Who are the real Muslims, those who have killed Konca or those who go to mosque together, women and men?"asked Necati Dogru, a columnist for tbe newspaper Sabah. 
"One more person paid with her life for being differ­ent and searching for her own voice," Sibel Eraslan, a female commentator, wrote in the Islamic newspaper Akit. 
But at Ankara's main Kocatepe mosque, worship-
Removal of North Korea from the U.S. list is necessary to create "favorable conditions and atmosphere for the Washington high-level talks before anything else," the 
Go Places! 
Student International Business Council Internships Applications 
Due Tuesday, Feb. 1 by 5:00 PM 
Applications available at www.nd.edu/-ndcibd 

per Nese Ince spoke out new religion?" the voices against Kuris' feminist brand asked, according to the news­of Islam. "I don't want the paper Milliyet. Islam that I have believed in In July of that year, three for years to be changed," she militants kidnapped Kuris said. from in front of her home in 
Kuris at first was a member the southern port of Mersin, of the militant group and she was never seen Hezbollah. which seeks to again. establish an Islamic state in Tapes of Kuris' interroga­southeastern Turkev and tion were discovered about which is not related to the two weeks ago during a Lebanese police raid militia of on a 
the same "One more person paid Hezbollah name. with her life for being safe house 
S h c in Istanbul.
dijj'erent and searching
traveled S a b a h to Iran for her own voice." reported. It with a said they delega­showed mil­
Sibel Eraslan
tion from itants stuff­
female commentator
the orga­nization but grad­ually became disillusioned with the group's attitude toward women. 
She demanded the right to pray alongside men and that prayers be said in Turkish· and not the traditional Arabic, which few Turks understand. Although Kuris wore a traditional Islamic head scarf, she said head scarves or the full black robes worn by some religious women were optional and not required in Islam. 
Kuris' feminist views infuri­ated Hezbollah, which is dominated by traditional, rural Kurds. 
In early 1998. she began to receive anonymous telephone calls. "Are you inventing a ing a picture 
of Mustafa 
K e m a I Ataturk, the found~,r of secu­lar Turkey, into her mouth. 
The newspaper also said the militants accused Kuris of seeking to become a Salman Rushdie or Taslima Nasrin, secular Muslim writers con­sidered heretics by Muslim radicals. 
Kuris was apparently suffo­cated with a pillow or cloth­ing in the basement of a house in the central Anatolian city of Konya. In death, she also was kept from her goal of equality. Her body was buried in a different cor­ner of the basement than those of the murdered men. 
At her funeral, the dispute over her views erupted in full force. 
agreement could leave the SLA facing the wrath of the Lebanese government and the guerrillas, 
SOUTH KOREA
who consider allies of Israel to be traitors. Elsewhere in south Lebanon, Israeli warplanes conducted 
N. Korea wants terroris01 off list
three raids Sunday. In one raid, the jets fired eight missiles, destroying a house apparently used as a guerrilla hide-out. 
In another raid, the planes damaged an outpost of Nepalese 
U.N. peacekeepers in south Lebanon, U.N. spokesman Timur Goksel said. 
No casualties were reported from the raids. 

North's foreign news outlet, KCNA, quoted an unidentified Foreign Ministry spokesman as saying. 
The two issues will be high on the agenda when less senior officials from thu two countries resume talks in New York in late February, KCNA quoted the spokesman as say­ing. The sides met in Berlin from Jan. 22-28, but failed to reach agreements. 
A high-level North Korean official's visit to Washington would be seen as a sign of the country's practical readiness to improve ties with the United States. Such a visit would reci­procate former Defense Secretary William Perry's trip to Pyongyang last May in his capacity as presidential emis­sary. 
North Korea sent shock waves through Asia by testing a multistage rocket that sailed over Japan and landed in the Pacific in the summer of 1998, 
The United States agreed to 
open talks on improving rela­
tions after the communist 
country halted plans last sum­
mer to test-fire another mis­
sile which experts said could 
reach Hawaii and Alaska. 
As part of the deal, the 
United States partly lifted eco­nomic and other sanctions in place since the 1950-53 · Korean War. But the North complained that the U.S. con­cessions fell short of its expec­tations. Removal from the U.S. list of terrorism-sponsoring countries has been a long­
standing Pyongang demand. 
The United States identified 
North Korea as a terrorism­
sponsoring state aftp,r it was 
found to have been involved in 
the 1987 bombing of a South 
Korean airliner that killed 115 
people. 
The South Korean Boeing 
727 from Baghdad, Iraq to 
Seoul disappeared near 
Burma. 
Associated Press 
SEOUL 
North Korea indicated Sunday that it would send a high-level delegation to the United States if Washington removes it from a list of coun­tries that sponsor terrorism. 


VIEWPOINT 
page 12 OBSERVER Monday, January 31, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Norrc D.rnte. IN 46556 024 Somli Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR  ilUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  0Jvid Rogcro  
A,ST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Pecellc  

NE~'S EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EotTOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORT~ Eorroll: Bri~n Kcsskr 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MAR¥'s EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bree Huclac SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushro 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
Orne£ MANAGER.IGLNER.'\L INFO.............631-7471 FAX................................. ..........................631-6927 ADVERTISING........................ ,•• ,........631-6900/8840 
observer@daiwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AsST. ME.. .................. 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SrORTS........................................................ 631-4543 observer.sporcs. l@nd.edu SCENE... ...................................................... 631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO.......................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news. sporrs, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-co-rhe 
weekly scudem reviews 
minute forecasts 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
cial campus coverage 
and races of prim ads 
about The Observer
archives ro search for 
to meec che editors and
articles published after 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in prim and on line by the scudenrs of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Maiy's College. Editorial coment, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of rhe administra,ion ofeirher insrirution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on concern. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent rhe opinion of rhe majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assisranc Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofrhe authors and nor necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ,o all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Le,ters ro the Edi,or musr be signed md muse include conract information. 
Qumiom regarding Observer policie, should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMichef!e Kmpa. 

The Confederate Flag should not fly 
While the Confederate battle flag is now widely recognized as a symbol of hatred. it wasn't always so controver­sial. It is, after all, the same flag that unceremoniously graced the roof of Jim Bo and Luke 
Hennigan
Duke's 1969 Uodge 
Charger. As James 
Tuck's recent com­
Guest 
mentary demon­Column strated, to some the flag truly sym­bolizes the peculiar independence many Southerners cherish. Yet, for the kev decisionmakers on both sides, the battle to remove it from atop the statehouse here in South Carolina is more of an opportunity for ego gratification, con­stituency building and getting quality time in the limelight than it is the press­ing moral concern perceived by most South Carolinians. 
The background facts are straightfor­ward: The flag was merely one of many "battle flags" -not the official flag of the Confederacy. In fact, the battle flag isn't even our official state flag. It was first raised over our statehouse in 1962. Lawmakers from 1962 now claim it was raised to commemorate the Civil War centennial, not to show contempt for pending civil rights initiatives or African Americans. (They haven't explained why they were a year late.) It was to come down on the centennial of Lee's surrender at Appomattox ... but the lawmakers -true to their poor sense of history -say they forgot. 
Armed with that information, you're hopefully asking, "So why not just take it down now?" 
The problem is that none of the antagonists on either side wants it down just yet. That's right. The NAACP, which -like the flag -was on the verge of being an irrelevant artifact, is driving the flag movement with its boycott of state tourism. Favorable national atten­tion on this issue has rejuvenated the NAACP constituency so much so that it would he foolish to seek a quick resolu­tion. It even taunts and embarrasses those who might be its strongest allies while provoking its opponents into recalcitrance -preferring publicity over achieving its stated goal. 
In 1997, our Republican governor tried to remove the l1ag, but he failed to first build a consensus. Then he blun­dered by not giving the NAACP a chance to share credit. With nothing at stake, the NAACP withheld support. So. does the NAACP truly regard the flag.as a key moral concern? Well, when explain­ing why they didn't support the former governor, the NAACP says the flag wasn't part of their 1997 and 1998 agenda. But after a sudden change of heart, the NAACP claimed the flag removal initiative. In July 1999, it announced its boycott effective Jan. 1, 2000. The NAACP's timing is suspect. The 1999 legislative session had adjourned in June and the 2000 session wouldn't commence until, well, 2000 ­which was too late. The deadline ensured a boycott, controversy and national attention. Plus, it gave the false impression of feet dragging by legisla­tors who weren't in session. 
But the !\JAACP is no more to blame for this shameful mess than the reac­tionaries who blindly oppose its every move. To flag supporters, it was obvious that supporting the governor was the best strategy for preserving the flag's reputation. Now, conservative Republican leaders are stalling not so much to defend the flag (while it's vili­fied daily in the national media) as they are scrambling not to appear to be sur­rendering to the NAACP's "economic terrorism." That's because many people actually care less about the flag than about the Lost Cause of preventing the NAACP from prevailing and getting too "headstrong." My "representatives" play to this anti-NAACP sentiment with commentary in the media that easily could have been borrowed from news coverage of Governor Orval Faubus (who used the National Guard to keep nine kids from going to school in Little Rock) or Bull Connor (who blasted fire hoses at children leaving church in Birmingham). 
The other problem with the continued defense of the flag is the specious argu­ment that there are many people who legitimately cherish the flag. I don't dis­agree with that fact, but battle flag lovers come in two flavors: those who legitimately revere the flag and those who flaunt it in hostility. 
And it's impossible to tell the two apart. Even more damning is the fact that the "sincere" flag supporters have bePn poor custodians of their cherishrd symbol. Just as the NAACP has only recently found interest in the flag, flag supporters are only just now acting to protect it. 
Even those who cherish the flag rec­ognize it's become a symbol of hatred towards African Americans, Catholics and anyone else not eligible to join a White Citizens Council. Its use by our legislature as a banner of intolerance and oppression and in support of the Klan is documented to the 1930s. Sure, the once revered battle flag is taking a public beating today, but that's because the flag lovers were silent when it was appropriated by Klan groups to pro­mote policies of hate. Where were these people then? And why don't they attend Klan marches today to protest the the Klan's desecration of their symbol? The NAACP isn't desecrating the flag by demanding its removal -they're mere­ly pointing out its current state of disre­pair. Anyone sincerely concerned about protecting the flag's rapidly deteriorat­ing image ought to strike it -instead of trying to prove the white man's still in charge. 
Moving the flag to the Confederate soldiers' memorial on the statehouse grounds is a sensible compromise. Even though it would be more visible, the location's less meaningful and that's precisely where a Confederate battle flag belongs. In fact, to recognize all the battle flags of the Confederacy, they should rotate them on a daily basis ­de-emphasizing the negative impact of the "Dukes of Hazzard" flag while reemphasizing its legitimate historical context. Don't expect any compromise, though. while the decisionmakers pros­per from the status quo. 
Meanwhile, the many people of South Carolina who just want the thing hauled down without regard to whether there's "peace with honor"-we shake our heads, hope the rest of y'all aren't pay­ing too close attention, and sigh our standard refrain in times like these: "Thank God for Mississippi!" 
Jim Hennigan, Class of 1984, usually practices commercial and international law, but he's currently practicing how to extinguish burning crosses in his front yard in the event certain ofhis neighbors see this or, worse, ifsomeone reads this to a Mississippian. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necces­sarily those of The Observer. 
DILBERT 
ANOTHER COMPANY OFFERED ME TWENTY PERCENT MORE. 

SCOTT ADAMS 
--::::==::==::=::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::--u -::::==::=::::=::::=::::=::=::..---­
~ 
l 
@ 
i 
J 
~ 
E 
8 
t:: 
~ 
ii 
;i:
l 
NO, I PREFER TO 
HIRE SOMEONE WHO IS LOYAL, EVEN IF I HAVE 
TO PAY FORTY 
PERCENT MORE. 

--'-_..__....___,..__~~--~-..........w;:,.i;i..,......i__~ 
; 
MANAGING IS 
2 
SUPPOSED TO BE
" 
i 
A SCIENCE! 
: 
~ 
" 
.~ 
:a> 
0 0 0 
N 
9 
l. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"A whale-ship was my Yale college and my Ilarvard." 
Herman Melville 
American author 
'JIIC1, 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
Monday, January 31, 2000 BSERVER page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Keeping up in a 
God does not exist 
weird, wired world 
why invoke the name? 
LINCOLN. NI-lb. -"Jusl dick on this be stimulated? 
icon, and then wait for it to dial-in," The Internet has pushed life to a Mrs. O'Brien told me. I watched the higher speed. Can you imagine junior screen and listened to the modem con-high and high school at light speed? ncct. those touch My sisters are temperamental enough; tones and that sta-Jacob it doesn't help that they have the · tic noise that Glazeski Internet to prolong their juvenile accompanies your squabbles and inflame their crushes. entrance onto the The next generation, I expect, will information super-Daily push life even faster than it is going highway. Nebraskan nuw. Their language will be laced with 
Once connected, influences from chat-talk to speed up I usr.d the arrow communication. Emoticons may per-keys on the keyboard to jump from vade the culture -a culture already link to link, sperifiPd by bold lettPrs on Jar.king in eloquence of the written a black and white Mac screen. !laving word. :( found the link to a search database, I They will be an unruly sort. They clichd "Heturn" and spun in my chair won't understand why it takes so long as I waited for the connection to regis-for a senior check. They won't be so ter a change in the screen. willing to wait for a long-winded pro-
An hour later. I \.\ill have down-frssor to get to her point. They won't loaded an executable or two and a few be as patient with their elders -those files. I will havn used anotlHff hour of of us used to using a computer without \1rs. O'Brien's free minutes. I will have a mouse. concluded my first online experience. These changes worry me. 
That was all of' six years ago. Not that there is any great, romantic, 
Now. the very Walden-like beauty l'abric or my exis-to the way our tPnce is thrnat-world is now. I will (~ned by the regret the passing lntPnwt. By br.ing of full sentences exposPd lo so about as much as I much informa-regret the passing tion, and so of hand-written quickly, 1seek letters. It will be such stimulation simply a changing in real life and of the guard, like find real life to be from hard rock to lacking. Classes hip-hop-influenced drag on, and the rock. I am not simple commutes afraid of a high-between classes strung, technology-take a surprising obsessed culture. I amount of' time. , welcome it for the 
Because of c-..,,,._,,,,,.,,: same reason mail, I now expec ~ everyone younger to be able to com-than me does: it's municate with ~~-. more exciting than
-. •----:--"_· 
anyone at any ~ ..,. real life. time. Whether it's I am worried seven in the · · because I have morning or mid-come to it too late. night, I usr, e-mai I may never be throughout the able to change fast day to "talk" to enough to deal people, and they with my youngest similarly respond sibling, now nine whcrnwer they years old, who will choose. have grown up 
Because of with the speed and Internet chat, my entertainment of normal social the Internet. I was barriers are bein introduced to the taken down. The ~~-=~:..:..........:...:;.;..;--~_.!! Internet when it anonymity of chatting allows me to was young. when e-mail was still fearlessly assert my opinion, on trivial unusual and not free. My mind is hard-things like politics and on subjects nor-wired like an Atari game console, not mallv considered taboo, like sex, no like a Sega Dreamcast. I'll never be matter how right or wrong I may be. fast enough. This seeps into real life, when I might I'm worried because, someday, when accidentally make an inappropriate I'm old and gray (read: 30), I'll look at comment, or when I feel, inexplicably, all the kids and I won't understand thti rn~ecl to say "lo!." how they live their lives; the Internet 
ThesP effects, as noted in my own will be s·uch a part of their existence. personal existence, arc hardly signili-l'll look back to the day when the cant. What interests me is what will Internet was still primarily a research happen to the next generation. tool, a tool for communicating with 
There is already lalk about hm, peers. I won't miss the slower pace of exposun! to TV has afTectPd the life, but f will miss my ability to keep younger gcmmttions. Trying to !ind up with the pack. ways to intnrnsl students in learning, Pducators arn incorporating morn and This columnjirst appeared in the more entertainment into their curricu­Daily Nehraskarz at the University of !urns. But that's just TV. a multi-chan­Nebraska on Jan. 28, 2000 and is nde<l, nun-interactive source or enter­reprinted here courtesy of the U-Wire. tainment and nPws. The views expressed in this column 
The Internet poses an entirely new are those ofthe author and not necces­problem. What will happen as a gener­sarily those ofThe Observer. ation matures, having grown up in a point-and-click culture'? llow can a professor lecture to a studenl who has li\ed a lif'e full of' interaction'? !low will one satisfy the nvcr-pressing need to 
I read Elizabeth Bauer's letter last lent God when "He" lets all of these chil­week. and I haven't seen such pompous dren suffer and die everyday'? How can nonsense in a long time. there be a God when billions of people 
The issue with which she concerned suffer, starve and die needlessly every­herself was premarital sex. While I day? This "God" apparently thinks it believe it is perfectly fine for men and quite all right for innocent women and women to have sex without mar­children to be beaten, raped and tor­riage, I also respect the deci-_.. tured everyday. This "God" sions of those who ~ allows wars to rage and choose to "MLve them-famines to spread and selves" for their allows for newborn special person. {/ babies to live for 
However, she just a few years, totally discred-I just long ited her . enough to tor­entire argu-/ ture and scar mcnt with the babies' her mind­parents. less com­Well, if ments that's your about God. God, I sure 
First of as hell do all, there is not want to no God. go to your Bringing heaven. By God into any your very argument is argument you ludicrous are silly and because there nonsensical. are no solid facts Finally, our that some divine bodies ARE ours to entity exists. do with as we please. 
I worked at Harvard Who else would lay University over the sum­claim to them if not the mer and everyday on the way to very people who have to live with lunch, my friends and I had to pass and use them everyday? Please think through the neighboring children's hos­rationally before inserting simple, mind­pital. And everyday, we saw children less opinions into our school newspaper. who were never going to make it out of that hospital whether it was because Mike Dillon they had some form of cancer or AIDS, Sophomore or any of a slew of other incurable dis­O'Neill Hall, eases. January 27, 2000 
How can you tell me there is a benevo-
Candidates: Prove your pride 
Last Saturday the Belle's Basketball under resident's doors. Take an hour or 
team won its first game. I was proud to two and go support your student body! 
share in this moment as they celebrated As student body president and vise 
to "Hallelujah!" They played with their president, you represent us. As athletes, 
hearts and the crowd knew how much we represent Saint Mary's College every 
this meant to them. As the clock ticked, time we partake in an event whether at 
the crowd became louder chanting home or away. So why should I care 
"defense" along with the bench. It may about your election if you do not care 
have seemed minor to the students seat­enough about a large number of us on 
ed next to me that we begin to bellow this campus who represent not only the 
out a cheer, but as an athlete myself, I students but the College as a whole? It's 
know that each chant, clap or spectator depressing to look into the stands during 
means a great deal. a competition and see the visiting team 
In the midst of all the excitement I with more fans! 
looked around and was stunned! Why? I ask you, how long does it take to walk 
Simply that Saint Mary's is in a period over to Angela? How much does it hurt 
right now that everything is based upon for athletes to ask that you take a minute 
"Pride." Admissions on how wonderful a away from that Saturday afternoon 
community we havP, athletics on how Lifetime Special to share in our triumphs 
the ''pride is on the rise" and mostly this and losses? To not only say you have 
year's student body election platforms. Saint Mary's Pride. but to have it and 
Each platform focused on building feel it. I did! I felt proud to be a class­
"Pride" in some way on campus. They mate of these women and part of Saint 
need to begin with things that exist. The Mary's at a time when I was wondering 
issue'? There is no "real Pride" on this why l came here. 
campus. When you are proud of some­To the entire Saint Mary's community 
thing, it isn't conditional; pride is a feel­~ I challenge you. When you preach of 
ing, not an expression of how you feel. "pride" at Saint Mary's, you better mean~ 
Most of the student fans on our side it. As athletes, we arc only as good as 
were close friends and fellow athletes. what we put into practicing. What is it to 
But among the crowd wherf\ wf\re, those say this doesn't apply to everyone. If I'm 
candidatf1s want to bring "pride" to us. going to say I'm the best swimmer on the 
There were three of the six candidates in team, I better be able to prove it. 
attendance: Renner, Nagle and Koelsch. So if you say you are the candidate 
I'd like to see support or evidence for with the most pride, you better be able 
your claims. l know there are three can­to prove it! 
didates who are ready to support their 
"pride" platform. and I know that anoth­Janel Miller 
er two, whom I witnessed when I Sophomore 
returned from the game, were more con­LeMans I!all 
cerned about sliding campaign materials January JO, 2000 
-... -·­

e 

page 14 Monday, January 31, 2000 
ART EXHIBITION REVIEWS 

• Celebration of Cuba and destruction of Cambodia provide contrasting art styles 
By LAURA KELLY 
Scene Writer 
"Breaking Barriers: Selections from 
the Museum of Art, Fort Lauderdale" 
Do not let the monsters scare you off. 
If the first painting you see upon entering "Breaking Barriers," the Snite Museum's newest exhibit of Cuban art, isn't enough to frighten you away. the length of its title may do the trick: "Monstrrs That Will Prevent People Like Sidney Tillim From Becoming Famous Artists." In this brightly colored painting by Pedro Perez. two giant creatures bare their teeth and claws like ferocious monsters from a child's nightmare. Although it may seem flashy or chaotic, this painting, like many other piecfls in "Breaking Barriers," is a serious com­mentary on the oppression faced by Cuban artists under Fidel Castro's Communist rflign. 
The artwork in the exhibit's next gallery is made up of dark, earthy tones, reflecting a more sorrowful side of' the modern Cuban experience. Weary of years of oppression, thousands of Cubans have tried to flee from their homeland, many unsuccessfully. Luis Cruz Azaceta depicts the sad death of many of these balseros (boat people) in a painting entitled "Dead Hafter IL" Even f'or those balseros who succeeded, the difficulties are many. 
The uncertainty of life in a new land and the longing for the familiarity of loved ones is the subject of Glexis Novoa's work "Te fuistc {You Left)," which is a unique collage and drawing that the artist has extended onto the walls of the Snite. In the cPntcr of the gallery stands another unusual piece ­Alejandro Aguilera's "History and Its Rcpresentation" -made up of two wooden figures with halos. representing two dead revolutionaries now viewed as Cuban heroes. 
This intertwining of roligion and poli­tics is one of the themes or the third gallery, as shown in Emilio Falero's painting, "Hedemptor llominis." In this statement on capital punishment, a por­trait of the dying Christ is surrounded by four stark images of a lone electric chair and a passage from the Book of Wisdom condemning man's use of death as pun­ishment. Equally unsettling images are found in the gallery's many pho­tographs, such as Andres Serrano's "The Morgue" -a shot of the body of a murder victim which serves as a gristly reminder of violence's aftermath. On a sadder note, Tomas Lopez's "Glenda" shows a beautiful, wide-eyed child gaz­ing at the camera. utterly unaware of her fate as an AIDS victim. 
After exposure to so many of the harsh realities of Cuban life, stepping into the final gallery of the exhibit fools as refreshing as the clear blue swirls and seas of Carlos Cardenas's large "Untitled." Here, the human spirit tri­umphs in a land ol' rich beauty. Tomas Sanch()Z's "Orilla (Hiverbank)" leads to a peaceful world of untour.hed rainforests. cool and lush. spreading out to the hori­zon. In an untitled painting by Arturo Hodrfguez. a young girl's jump-rope game allows her, for an instant, to leap off the earth to which she is bound, cele­braling the fiery exuberance of hope. The lasting impressions from this gallery are as uplifting as the powerful bursts of color in Paul Sierra's abstract, "Epiphany." 
During these days of cold dreariness, visiting the rich, warm colors of "Broaking Barriers" is a welcome escape from the stark whiteness outside. Upon entering, the soft sounds of Cuban music draw in and lead one throughout the galleries. The music rolls from fren­zied dances to quiet, mellow reflections. much like the shifts in tone and theme throughout the exhibit Although the eye may first be caught by the vivid colors of many works. ear.h piflce deserves a moment of r.ontemplation in this lesson on life in modern Cuba -a life often overwhelmed by the giant monsters of sorrow and oppression, yet a life full of irrepressible beauty, celebrated here by artists strongly tied to their homeland. 
"Facing Death: Portraits from 
Cambodia's Killing Fields" 
An afternoon spent in the Snite Museum during these winter months 

Monday, January 3 l, 2000 page 15 

Ruben Torres Llorca's "Saber Rezar Creer Es Otra Casa" is now on dis­play at the Snite Museum of Art. The piece is from the Museum of Art, Fort Lauderdale. 
Photo courtesy ol 111e Snite Museum 

will find onl' <'xpc·1sPd to drastil' PX!rPmt~s. Din,ctly across from "Brraking Barriers." a r,p)pbration of' the beauty and strength or the Cuban peo­pln. lil's anotlwr nnw exhibit. "Facing DPath: Portraits from Cambodia's Killing Fields." This exhibit wnsists of 100 gPlatin silvPr prints. photographs of prisoners or S-21, a serret Cambodian prison during thP rr.ign of Pol Pot. 
From 197:l to 1979. Pol Pot led the Khnwr Hougr. in a violent rr.volution that took tlw liv<•s or millions of Cambodians. T,vo hundred thousand \\'Pr<' ,~xPrutcd as Prn•miPs of' tb(' state in SP<Tl'I prisons lik<' S-21. Tlrnse "offend­<' rs," who Wt'l'C' thought to haYe b<,trnyPd tlw Khmer Rouge movement. wnre brought to S-21. tortured until tlH'Y confpssPd to whatevl'r c:harges \\p1•,, brought against tlwm. and finally (')(('('U[Pd. Tim photographs takPn or tlws1• prismwrs and their familics upon thi-ir arrival makP up this powPrf'ul 1:xhibit. 
From tlw lung wall ol' black and white photogrnJJhs. I00 faces stare silently back. Taggnd and numbered like ani­mals. the subjPcts show a range or emo­tions: confusion. rear. shock, anger. There are peaceful children with the quiet gaze of innocence. old men weary from years of pain and mothers clutch­ing their babies in protection. When viewed from a distance, the faces seem to blur together into a single over­whelming imagr.. But up close, the num­br.red subjects become human and their faces familiar. Their haunting eyes seem to follow one's movements -some ter­rifiPd. somP bewildered, the children's still rnlm and trusting. Sitting alone in the spacious gallery. it is suddenly apparent that each one of thes.e people was raptured. tortured and killed. There is no lofty. artistic interpretation to be done here. This is raw reality. a deed of 

humanitv that musl be dealt with. no matter h;iw disturbing. 
As its title statr.s so obviously, "Facing. Death" is not an exhibit to visit for amusement or entcrtainnwnt. It is not an Pxhibit to bP wanderPd through, but one that demands a fow silent momenl'i o!' thought. !\levcrlheless, it is something important to sne: a powerful reminder of how f'ortunatP we are merely to be alive. 
Eduardo Aparicio's "Untitled" is from the Cuerpo Publico Series at the Museum of Art, Fort Lauderdale, now on display at the Snite. 
Photo courtesy of the Snite Museum 
TECH COLUMN 
If vou are familiar with the first player shooters for the computer, then you are no doubt a fan of the "Quake" series from Id Software. The series quickly 
surpassed its pre­decessors, both in game play and strategy, but also in just plain fun. 
For those of you· who were fans of the first two ver­sions of this 

series, the good news is that the Mike Revers 
third installment. "Quake lil Arena," does not Scene tech 
show signs of dis-writer appointment. Many things have been improved upon, su~h as the game's main graphics engine that really improves the frame rate and image quality. But perhaps the most important feature of the release is the built-in game modes that we have all come to know and love. Capture the flag, team deathmatch and a new spin on things -king of the hill ­has been added to the classic. On top of that, the weapons have changed with the familiar favorites still in tow like the railgun, rocket launcher and shotgun. 
While "Quake III Arena's" focus may be its multi-player deathmatch component, it does have a single­player mode. When playing alone, you can go up against artificial intelli­gence-controlled bots. The bots do their best to act like human players. and on the higher difficulty settings, they put up an excellent fight. The AI in this game is excellent, and there­fore each bot has different character­istics that govern the way it fights. You'll move through several different competitive tiers, each with different arenas and bots. At the Pnd of each tier is a one-on-one showdown; these fights take place in smaller, tourna­ment-style arnnas and also tend to be more challenging. 
The bots are downright r,hatty. A bit of an annoyance in the game, they'll hold small conversations with each other. which are displayed in text onsr,rcen. In team games, you can order bots around or even let a bot take control of your team and tell you what to do. Although this game is fun to play, it is not the only word in first-player shooters. This is because "Quake Ill" has a new rival that pre­viously was ignored by hardcore gamers. "Unreal Tournament Edition." 
To put it bluntly, "Unreal Tournament" is a blast! One might argue that there isn't much to the single-player game, but I'd beg to dif­fer. In fact, the single-player game is so much like the multi-player that. aside from the largely acceptable lag, you'd be hard-pressed to tell the dif­ference. 
The bots are smart. They're fast. They make good use of their weapons and, perhaps most important of all, if they're on your team. they follow orders. That's right. Tell them to defend or attack and they'll do just that. and do it to the death! You real­ly feel like you're part of one cohesive unit working toward a single goal. You can also adjust the intelligence of the bots to match your skill level and make the game as easy or difficult as you like. 
Variety is the bread and butter of "Unreal Tournament." There are dozens of maps in different sizes, and several different types of game play. I love the assault mode, but it can be frustrating, especially the "overlord" map, which seems to heavily favor the defending team. In another assault map, the attacking team tries to blow up a huge Tyridium shard while the other team must defend it. When playing on the defending team, I found it hideously easy to defend once l snagged a sniper rifle from a downed attacker. 
This version of the popular game "Unreal" blows the previous versions away! The number of modifications to the original game is too great to list, but this game certainly doesn't disap­point. The result is a game rich with built-in game play modifications like assault -my favorite -where two teams face off in a 11-day like game where one team attacks the other's fortified defenses. After 10 minutes. the game restarts with the two teams flipping roles, and the hunter becomes the hunted. 
The sounds are excellent. as is tlrn music. The graphics arc gorgeous, as .., you might expect. I would have liked to see more variety in the textures used in the levels. as a lot of them use drab textures and rely on colored lighting for color effects. But those are minor complaints. Guaranteed to be a big success in multi-player mode. this game is up and coming and giving a reason for Id Software to start quaking in its proverbial boots! 
,---------------------•---------~-----..........,w__.._____,.______________ -.-----------. ...._ 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, January 31, 2000 
WOMEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 
Robinson, Virginia upset Duke in ACC action 
the Cava]jers held on for the which last beat Arizona 75-58 minutes left in the first half. for N.C.-Charlotte {7-1:3, 2-7). 
AssociaLed Press 
victory. in Tempe on Feb. 19. 1993. Louisiana State led 35-32 at Fabrecia Roberson scored Dur.ing its winning streak, The victory was coach Joan the break. 18 points for Tulane andCHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 
Virginia has beaten North Bonvicini's 150th at Arizona Mississippi State's LaToya Sarah Goree added 14.
Renee Robinson scored 15 Carolina, North Carolina State and her 4 7 5th overall. Thomas scored 14 points, but The 49ers held Tulane starpoints as No. 25 Virginia beat and Duke, all ranked in the only two during the first half. Grace Daley to six points, theNo. 9 Duke 61-49 Sunday and top 10 at the time of the first time she failed to finish in
moved into sole possession of Tennessee 77,
games. double figures in a year. She
first place in the Atlantic 
Schuye LaRuc added 12 Northwestern 48 Purdue 70, Northwestern 31 is four points shy of 2,000
Coast Conference. 
points and 10 rebounds for Kara Lawson scored 22 Katie Douglas scored 20 points in her career.
Virginia (lfl-5, 8-1 ). which Virginia, which shot 36.8 per­points, tying a school record points and Kelly Komara Tulane has won the last nine
led 18-0 but saw Duke get 
cent and made 17 of 27 free with six 3-pointers, to load No. added 17 as No. 17 Purdue meetings between the two
within 44-37 with 8:11 
throws in the second half. won its tifth straight game by teams dating back to 1994.
4 Tennessee to a victorv over
remaining, regrouped to win 
Matyasovsky scored 14 Kentucky on Sunday. · routing Northwestern on 
its eighth straight ACC: game. Sunday.
points and was Duke's only Lawson, who tied Abby
It also was Virginia's 12th vic­Purdue (l4-5, 6-3 Big Ten} Auburn 55, Florida St. 52
double-figure scorer. Conklin's team record againsttory in 13 games since an 83­
took control from the outset Tasha Hamilton had 14
Texas Tech in 1996, scored 19
62 loss at Duke Dec. 5. 
and pulled away from the points and 11 rebounds to
points in the first half as
Duke (18-3, 7-21 shot only Illinois 86, Wildcats in the final 13 min­lead No. 11 Auburn to a victo­
Tennessee (16-3. 5-1) rolled to
30.8 percent and was held to Michigan State 66 utes of the first half with a 29-ry over Florida State.
a 47-27 halftime lead.
its lowest scoring output since Allison Curtin scored 24 7 run that gave the Trailing 47-45, Auburn (16­
Kentucky (11-9, 3-5), led by
a 71-45 loss to the U.S. points to lead No. 21 IHinois to Boilermakers a 37-12 edge at 4) forced three consecutive
LaTonya McDole with 1 2
national team in an exhibition a victory over Michigan State the break. turnovers and scored six
points, never got on track
Nov. 10. on Sunday. Northwest,~rn (6-13, 3-6) straight points to take a lead
offensively and shot just 33
The Blue Devils played with­Susan Blauser added 16 went scoreless from the 6:44 the Tigers wouldn't relin­
percent. from the field.
out forward Peppi Browne, points for the Fighting Illini remaining in the first half quish.
Kentucky's hopes of a sec­
their second-leading scorer (16-7. 6-3 Big Ten), and Tauja until 16:26 was left. Brooke Wyckoff scored 18
ond-half comeback were
and rebounder. Catchings and Karen Hagberg During the Northwestern points to lead the Seminoles
thwarted quir:kly. as
Browne hurt a knee in a vic­had 15 points apiece. drought. Purdue scored 22 (8-l 1) and Latavia Coleman
Tennessee outscored the
tory against North Carolina Maxann Reese Jed the points, including the first eight added nine points and
Wildcats 14-4 in the first
Thursday night and did not Spartans (14-5, 5-3) with 16 points of the second half, and grabbed 11 rebounds.
seven minutes. Lawson and
make the trip to snowy points. Kristen Rasmussen led 45-12 with 16:43 remain­
Tamika Catchings. who had 15
Charlottesville. added 15 and Becky ing on Camille Cooper's 5-foot
points and 15 rebounds. each Penn St. 68, Wisconsin 54
The game came a year after Cummings scored 12. jump shot.
hit 3-pointers in the spurt. Maren Walseth had 15one of the most difficult losses 
Illinois led 30-27 at halftime Six different Boilermakers 
points and eight rebounds,
of Virginia coach Debbie but fell behind 44-39 with scored in Purdue's 22-0 run as and No. 7 Penn State scored
Ryan's 23-year career. 14:06 to play. LSU 64, Mississippi State 58 Douglas led the way with 
the game's first 15 points
Last Feb. 4, Virginia led The Illini went on a 27-11 Katrina Hibbert had 22 seven points. 
while extending its home win­Duke 51-33 with 12 1/2 min­run over the next 10 minutes points and seven rebounds to Purdue's largest lead in the 
ning streak to 12 games with
utes left, then was outscored to go up 76-55 at 4:03 to put lead No. 12 Louisiana State to second half came on Candi 
a victory Sunday over
33-5 and lost 66-56 at home. the game away. a 64-58 Sunday over Crawford's layup that made it Wisconsin.
This time, the Cavaliers Mississippi State, ending the 63-19 with 7 :37 to go. 
Helen Darling and Lisa
again dominated early, lead­Bulldogs' record 17-game
Arizona 60, Arizona State 58 Shepherd added 12 points
ing 28-12 at halftime and 34-home winning streak.
Tatum Brown s~ored 13 of Tulane 78, N.C.-Charlotte 68 apiece for Penn State (18-3, 9­
16 early in the second half, Marie Ferdinand scored 16
her 18 points in the second Janell Burse scored 20 1 Big Ten) for the Lady Lions.
but the Blue Devils again points, and DeTrina White
half as No. 18 Arizona beat points and had nine rebounds Penn State held Wisconsin
made a charge. added 13 and nine rebounds.
Arizona State on Sunday, the Sunday as No. 22 Tulane beat scoreless over the first 5:18.
Duke outscored Virginia 21-Louisiana State (16-3, 6-1
Wildcats' 13th straight victory North Carolina-Charlotte. Wisconsin (10-8, 4-5) was
10 to get within seven on Southeastern Conference)
over the Sun Devils. Tulane (18-2, 7-2 lead by Tamara Moore with 15
Michele Matyasovsky's two trailed the Bulldogs (16-3, 5­
Brown, who also had 13 Conference USA) dominated points and LaTonya Sims with
free throws with 8: 11 left. 3) only once in the second half
rebounds, was the only player the 49ers at the foul line in 14 points and 17 rebounds.
Virginia then outscored before shutting down 
to score in double figures !'or the second half to overcome a Andrea Garner led the Lady
Duke 7-2 as Robinson hit a Mississippi State's inside
Arizona (16-3, 5-2 Pacific-10). 40-36 deficit. Lions on the opening run with
15-footer and a free throw, game.
Arizona State (11-6, 4-3) The Green Wave connected five points and one blocked
Svetlana Volnaya had two free Jennifer Fambrough made a
had a chance to tie the game, on 17-of-21 free throws in the shot.
throws and Chalois Lias pair of free throws to give
but Kitch Kitchen's short period. N .C.-Charlotte went 11 Garner had a block on
scored on a putback. Mississippi State a 5-0 lead,
jumper fell off the rim with a for 13 from the foul line for Wisconsin's second posses­
That gave Virginia a 12-but a jump shot by April
second left. the game. sion, then ran down the court
point lead, and with the Blue Brown started the Tigers on a
Kristine Sand finished with Sarah Fisher and Tonya and scored an easy layup on a
Devils having to foul and 17-5 run to give them a seven­
25 points for Arizona State, Phifer each scored 18 points pass from Shepherd.
Virginia in the double bonus, point lead with less than 12 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for comem withour issuing refunds. 
ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE  got cash?  
AND CLOSE  New Phone Card  http://i.am/yourfreeemoney  where it stops, nobody knows  
NOTICES  WANTED  http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ email:mmmrentals@aol.com  886 mins. $20 258-4805 or 243-9361  
232-2595  
My house burnt down last  StTTER WANTED  Coach Doherty is my hero.  She cuts right...  
Tuesday.Late last week the Flre  Tues and Thurs, 12:30 • 6: 15  6 BEDRM. '00·'01  '93 FORD ESCORT GT.  Goes back left...  
Dept. informed me that my dog  On Campus, at Univ. Vig. Apts.  $1200/mo. 273-0482  5-SPD, A/C, EXC. COND.  Makes her move...  
(dalmation) must have escaped the  Chris or Shannon: 634-4751  73K.  And so is that Matt Dillon kid.  SHE SHOOTS AND SCORES!!  
.....  fire. Her name is Scarlet. I am offer•  Available Summer and Fall 2000.  $4100 o/b/o  Beat him like a rented mule!  
ing a $1000.00 reward for her  4-student rental house...Security  616-683-6705.  
return. Call Chris 246-1338.  Clubs • Student Groups  System, Air Conditioned, Laundry ..  
Student organizations earn $1.000­ Dave  1991 Honda accord EX  NEMATODE!  
LOSE WEIGHT!  $2,000 with the easy campus•  291 ·2209.  88,000 miles $6000  hat trick  
EAT WHAT YOU LIKE!  fundraiser.com three hour fundrais­ 219-273-8483  
WEIGHT WATCHERS BRAND­ ing event. No sales required.  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT  
NEW  Fundraising dates are filling quickly,  SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND  Frasso, are you too good for your  
ON CAMPUS PROGRAM Your super-convenient dream diet  so call today! Contact campus­fundraiser.com. (888) 923-3238, or  EXCELLENT NEIGHBORHOOD CLOSE 2773097  TICKETS  home? Dillon is your home! Not Morissey!!  yeah, I'll light  
from a name you trust is coming to  111sit www.campusfundra1ser.com.  
Notre Dame and Sr Mary's! No  NEED ONE TICKET FOR FEB. 12  
complicated counting! Eat pizza,  Professor needs 3 hrs. help on  B'NB REGISTRY  UCONN GAME.  Pfease call Chad  note to self: smashing plastic on  
cake-any food you crave and lose  small farm 1 mile from N.D.  219·291·7153  at x3633 if you have an extra ticket.  Noreen,  head is painful  
weight. Get live info-packed book­ 277-5328  Last time I said I hated you, I was  
lets. tons of super-easy recipes,  Email Ford 1@nd.edu  HOUSES FOR RENT:  out of line. But not this time. I hate  
and specialized online support trom  1)925 N. Francis, 5-bedroom, 1­ you. I want you to die. You gave me  
tralned Weight Watchers staff. You pay just $79 for 7 weeks. Start the  bath, newly refinished wood floors, $1200/month.  PERSONAL  the death stomach flu. "Oh, don't worry, we'll just wash this cup out  Yup!  
millennium right-register today over the phone: 1 ·800-651 ·6000. Visa,  FOR RENT  2)520 Corby, 4-bedroom, 1-bath, $1000/month.  www.thecommentator.com  with warm water, that will sterilize it." Wrong! While I have no proof  
MasterCard and Discover accepted.  Call B111 at 675-0776.  that this death flu came from that  Quick summary:  
cup, I am still blaming you. So to  
6 BDRM HOME.FURN.AVAIL  recap, I hate you. I want you to die.  1. Hate you  
LOST AND FOUND  NOW$150. PER. 272-6306  FOR SALE  WILL RODNEY RODENT SEE HIS SHADOW?  Connolly  2. want you to die  
2·6 BDRM HOMES.'00-'01 272·  
My house burnt down last  6306  My house burnt down last  The world is spinning  
Tuesday.Late last week the Fire  Beautlful brass bed, queen size,  Tuesday.Late last week, the Fire  
Dept informed me that my dog  3 bedroom duplex  with orthopedic mattress and  Dept. informed me that my dog  Yabba Dabba Doooo!!  
(dalmatian) must have escaped the  appliances,W/D  deluxe frame  New, never used, still  (dalmatian) must have escaped the  
fire.I am offering a S1000.00 reward  1 mile from campus  in plastic. $235  fire. I am offering a $1000.00 reward  round and round and round it goes  There is no way I am getting to  
lor her return Call Chris 246-1338.  273-8332  219-862·2082  for her return. Call Chris 246-1338  class  

Monday, January 31, 2000 The Obser11er . SPORTS page 17 
=========~--======================================================================================================================= 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Harvard coach keeps going despite chemotherapy 
for her. Jokes about losing her hair game, it was never an option, Collins of Charlton, a regular at
Associated Press 
They seemed to get the mes­and the other indignities of even though she again felt ill. Harvard games for about five sage. chemotherapy have become "I would die a thousand years. "It's a good thing to showROSTON l\io banners from well-wishers commonplace at Harvard prac­deaths if I had to miss a game," what an exam can do for you,Cancer pati<rnt'? Four days or shaved heads on players tices, but Drlaney-Smith knows she said. and that life goes on."
after her first chemotherapy 
expressing solidarity were seen the seriousness of her disease On the sidelines Saturday, Ross Barnard, father of player 
treatment. Kathy Delaney­
at Lavictes Pavilion. There was hasn't been lost there was Laura Barnard, called Delaney­Smith simply looked like a per­only an intense coach leading on the Crimson. little sign Smith "courageous," and saidturbed basketball coach. 
another good Harvard women's When she "J would die a thousand t h a t her approach to cancer and her
"ThPy are toying with you 1" baskAtball team to another win, returned to Delaney­profession are similar.
she velled at her Harvard deaths ifI had to miss a 
as Delaney-Smith has for 17 practice Smith fpit "Maybe what the coach is
Crim-son team after they'd game.
years. Thursday after s i C k . doing is taking this like a bas­blown a 19-point lead ag,Linst "She doesn't want anything the chemother-Dressed ketball game, with a beginningAlbany on Saturday, from us," Sturdv said. "And we apy Tuesday, Kathy Delany-Smith sharply in a and an ending," he said.
"Move the ball'" she said, 
just want to be t"here for her." she noticed the crimson The end of Delaney-Smith's
looking each player in the eye. Harvard basketball coach
Delaney-Smith found out she players were blazer and fight with cancer is a long way
"Go after the boards' Be 
had cancer after a che_ckup in wide-eyed and black skirt, off. Her next chemotherapy issmart!" 
early Der,ember. Telling the cautious, she con­scheduled for the end ofThcu she sent them back on 
team about the cancer has been unsure what to expect. stantly popped off the bench. February. and more will follow. 
th<' lloor, free from any doubts the toughest part of the ordeal, "She let us know she was lobbying referees, instructing But her plans for the upcom­that cancer had changed their she said, aside from telling her OK," Sturdy said hrr rrserves and calling plays. ing months are no differentcoach. 
husband and son. Since the Delaney-Smith admits the In the stands, Harvard fans from the plan she took into
"lt was just like Kathy," said diagnosis, Delaney-Smith tried treatment has made her feel familiar with her energetic style Saturday's game. Keep focused, senior forward Laela Sturdy. 
to makl: sure her canc<er lousy. The worst of it came said they'd be shocked if she get tough if you have to, and
That was the point for 
doesn't become the team's Friday, but it was precisely acted differently. They also sup­walk away on top.
DPlaney-Smith, who didn't want focus. because she felt so bad that she ported her decision to make her "I guess I would say I'm a
the Crimson or their fans to 
"Some say 'We'rp playing for forced lrnrsolf to show up for battle with cancer public. tighter," she said. "I've alwaysthink her lirst game after treat­Kathy"' she said. "I don't want practice that day. "I think it's really good she's been an optimist and l like to m c n t f'or bn~ast cancer was 
them to. It's not right." As for missing Saturday's not trying to hide it," said Linda win."
about anything but basketball 
WORLD CUP 
U.S. women end boycott 
Associated Press 
The American team that won the women's World Cup will be back on the field this week after agreeing to a five­year contrar.t that ended its boycott. 
Mia Hamm. Brandi Chastain and the rest of the American play­ers will begin training Tuesdav under nf'w coach April Heinrichs. 
They play an exhibi­tion gamP against Norway on Feb. 6 in Fort Lauderdale. Fla. 
Thf' wonrnn boycotted this month's Australia Cup because they felt they were not getting paid enough. 
The U.S. Soccer Federation sent a team of college-age players that won the tourna­menL. 
The settlement Saturday will enable each player to earn about $130,000 this year in salaries and 
bonuses, The New York Times reported Sunday. 
The players also would have the right to 
hold their  own  indoor  
victory  tour,  which  
paid  each  about  

$100.000 after last summer's World Cup. 
The players agreed to the contract with the USSF during a confer­ence call with their lawyer, John Langel. The contract is in part contingent on the for­mation of a women's professional league in 2001, the Times said. The deal runs through the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens. 
The USSF did not announce the contract Saturday, but sched­uled a news conference for Tuesday in New York to "discuss the progress" of negotia­tions. 
The federation did say it has called in 35 players, including 17 of the boycotting players 
from the World Cup team, to practice this week. 
During the World Cup, each player on the roster was paid $3.150 a month. 
At the end of the hugely successful tour­nament last July, the contracts expired. 
The women had sought a new contract as early as September, but the federation pre­ferred to begin negotia­tions Dec. 1. 
When the USSF asked the players to compete under the old contract -but without any bonus money after each received $7,500 for winning the World Cup -Langel proposed $5,000 a month for January and February, plus $2,000 per game. 
Several players called the federation's origi­nal proposal "insult­ing," and Hamm, the sport's career scoring leader, said it was a step backward. 

Roos SPORT> REc~E~llON CENTER DEPARTMENT OF ATHlETICS UNIVE.SITY Of NOTRE DMIE 
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center Drop-In Recreation Schedule 
In-Line Hockey  Sundays  8:30-10:30  
Floor Hockey  Mondays  8:30-10:30  
Indoor Soccer  Tuesdays  8:30-10:30  
Volleyball  Wednesdays  7:00-10:00  
Lacrosse  Thursdays  8:30-10:30  
Badminton  Fridays  7:00-10:00  
Badminton  Saturdays  9:00-11:00  

Come by Yourself, or Bring a Friend! 
All times are PM. Schedule is in effect only when classes 
. . 
are m session. 
NHL 
McCleary recovering froID slap shot to throat 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL 
Trent McCleary, who came within minutes of dying after being hit in the throat by a slap shot, felt well enough Sunday to write a note to his Montreal Canadiens teammates. 
"Doing great, everybody," said the handwritten message delivered by team doctor David Mulder. 
He said he would be listening to Sunday's game, in which Montreal beat Carolina 3-0. 
"Battle hard," the note said. "Go Hahs." It was signed, "Trent No. 6." 
McCleary is unable to speak but he is no longer in danger of dying, Mulder said Sunday. He is recovering from a fractured larynx and collapsed lung. 
Doctors expect him to spend at least a week in hospital, but it is not clear if he will be able to play again. 
The 27-year-old player, his skates still on, underwent an emergency tra­cheotomy Saturday night after being hit flush on the throat on a shot from Philadelphia's Chris Therien during a 2-2 tie. 
"He's much better now," said Mulder, who treated the popular fourth-line winger from the time he was helped, limp and gasping for air, from the Molson Centre to Montreal General Hospital. 
"Anyone on a respirator is consid­ered in criticai condition. but in terms of danger to his life, he went through that (Saturday) night," Mulder added. "Certainly, his life is not in danger now." 
Ear, nose and throat specialists will decide Monday whether they should operate immediately on his larynx or wait several days for the swelling to subside. McCleary might be left with a raspy voice. 
The only NHL player to die from an injury in a game was Bill Masterton, whose head struck the ice in 1968. Mulder said McCleary came close to dying. 
"It was as close as I think you could come," Mulder said. "It was a matter of seconds. If we had been held up along the way ... " 
McCleary helped himself by skating to the bench. He gestured to his throat that he couldn't breathe before he col­lapsed and went unconscious. 
Mulder was at the boards, and asso­ciate Dr. David Fleiszer, a spectator, rushed to help. 
When they couldn't get a breathing tube down the player's throat, McCleary was placed in an ambu­lance. There was little traffic for the five-minute ride. 
Mulder and Fleiszer gave him an oxygen mask and tilted McCleary's head during the trip to let air into his body. 
Dr. Vincent Lacroix had called ahead, so hospital staff had an eleva­tor waiting and an operating room ready. A senior anesthesiologist. Dr. 
ATRIA SALON ACADEMY 
MONDAYS ONLY ALL SERVICES PERFORMED BY STYLISTS IN TRAINING 
Valid only wirh t:he follo.ving Junior Stylists: A.ngie, Connie, Vicki, and Jennifer 
Hilites and Haircut 
$15.00 
Perin c,ncl Haircut 
$15.00 
Colour and Haircut 
$15.00 
289-5080 
"1357 N. Ironwood Dr. on the corner of Edison 7 rnile east of Notre Darne and Saint Mary's 
Certain restrictions apply. All services are performed by our Junior Stylists in training. Please n1.ention this ad when booking appointments. 
Michel Germain, was on duty. 
There was no time to remove equipment, so they cut away the front of his jersey and oper­ated. 
Mulder performed the tra­cheotomy -a hole cut into the base of the throat that opens an air passage -and ran a tube to re1inflate the right lung. With his oxygen source restored, the worst danger was over. It all took less than 45 minutes. 
"It's the first operation I've done where I looked down aftPrwards and the patient still had skates on," Mulder said. 
When Mulder returned a few hours later, McCleary's vital signs were normal. When the doctor returned Sunday morn­ing, the player was even better. 
page 18 The Obsen;er . SPORTS Monday, January 31, 2000 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
UConn ends Seton Hall streak 
Associated I'ress 
HARTFORD. Conn. 
Seton Hall was riding a three­game winning streak when it ran into a somewhat lame, but very game No. 6 Connedicut on Sunday. 
The Huskies (15-4, 4-3 Big East) rallied behind scoring leader Khalid El-Amin, who had been nursing a deep thigh bruise. to beat the Pirates 66-56. El-Amin sc1id bv Sunday morning he wasn't sure.if he could play. 
~1 just wanted to go ahead a?d give it a shut." said El-Amrn, who led the Huskies with 16 points. "I was able to run, I was able to compete and I wanted to come out here and play." 
The junior point guard leads the team with 17 points per game. He injured his _right _leg three days ago in the wm agamst Providence and has pracliced only lightly since. 
UConn coach Jim Calhoun said he could tell from the shoot­around that El-Amin was up to the task. 
.. His juices were flowing," Calhoun said. "He was more than ready to play." 
Seton Hall (13-4, 5-2 Big East) kept it close early behind the 3­point shoot­ing of 
sophomore 
"In a game of wills like knee mJ ury,
g u a r cl 
went without a
Darius Lane that we got the edge." 
field goal for
and post 
the first 10:42
defense of 6­
Jim Calhoun of the second
f o o t -11 
Connecticut head coach half. By that
freshman renter Samuel Dalembert. 
Lane was 5-of-5 from 3-point range in the opening period. After UConn (15-4, 4-3) began the game with baskets by Edmund Saunders and Jake Voskuhl. Lane went to work from long range. He scored 11 points in the Pirates· 16-4 run over a four-minute span to stake Seton Hall to a 16-13 lead. 
Dalembert had five blocks in the first half, two more than the entire UConn squad in the peri­od. 
The Huskies regained the lead for good on a 12-8 run, fueled by El-Amin's six points. Albert Mouring's 3-pointer with 8:35 left capped the spurt to give UConn a 25-24 lead. The Huskies took a 36-32 lead at the break. 
El-Amin sparked a 10-4 run to open the second half. UConn led 58-43 with 6: 17 left to play on EI-Amin's 3-pointer. Seton Hall would get no closer than seven points thereafter. El Amin also had team-high five assists. 
Calhoun said El-Amin's deter­mination was contagious. 
"I thought our mindset was real good," Calhoun said. "In a game of wills like that we got the edge." 
UConn's smothering defense gave Lane few looks in the sec­ond half, ,dlowing him only four points in the period. Lane fin­ished with a team-high 21. Ty Shine had 14 for the Pirates. 
"They weren't allowing our guys to get good looks," said Seton Ilall coach Tommy AmakPr. "WP need to bP quickPr and faster to offset what we will face in powerful teams." 
The Huskies won the battle of the boards, 39-31, led by Souleymane \Vane's nine. Voskuhl had 11 points before suffering a cut on his head when he took an elbow from Dalembert as they battled for a rebound with 1 :07 left. 
Michigan State 91, Illinois 66 
Michigan State coach Tom Izzo told Charlie Bell to start shooting more. Bell took him seriously. 
Bell scored 20 points and Morris Peterson 18 as the No. 9 Spartans gave Izzo a 91-66 win over Illinois on his 45th birthday Sunday. 
"I wasn't looking too much for mv shot," Bell said. "After Mateen [Cleaves] got back, I still had the point guard rnenlality. Coach told me I had to start looking for my shot. 
"Since then, he hasn't told me I've taken a bad shot yet" 
Bell was forced to run the offense the first half of the sea­son while Cleaves recovered from a broken foot. This was only the seventh game since Cleaves, a two-time All­American, returned Jan. 5. 
"That's maybe as well as we've played." Izzo said. "We're seeing the results of Mateen get­ting his physical conditioning back, and Charlie Bell looked for some shot<;.'' 
It was the 23rd straight home victory for the Spartans (15-5, 6­1 Big Ten), tying a school record set in the early 1930s and matched during the mid-1960s. 
The Fighting Illini (11-7. 3-4), playing without Marcus Griffin. 
sidelined since 
Jan. 21 with a 
time, Michigan 
State had built 
a 36-point lead. 
'There is a big gap between us and Michigan State," Illinois coach Lon Kruger said. "We have a long way to go and hard work to do to try and bite into that gap a little." 
Cory Bradford, hounded by Bell and Cleaves. scored 13 points for the Illini, hitting 5 of 11 shots, only one from 3-point range. 
"We put a few guys on him and took away a few of his shots," Izzo said. 
The Spartans took the lead early and never let up. 
Bell, who scored 13 points in the first half. had seven points and Peterson hit three of his five 3-pointers as Michigan State broke to a 27-14 lead with 9:55 left in the half. 
Illinois, with Frank Williams hitting a 3-pointer and three free throws. narrowed the gap to 32­26 with 5:34 left, but Michigan State held the Illini scoreless for the next 3:23. 
Meanwhile, Cleaves went the length of the court for a driving layup that triggered a 17 -4 burst that sent the Spartans off with a 49-30 lead at halftime. Cleaves had six of his 13 points during the spurt and Bell also got back into it with a 3-pointcr and a three-point play during the run. 
Bell scored 10 points to help the Spartans open the second half with an 18-1 run to lead 67­31 with 11 :33 remaining. 
"That was important that Charlie came out early like that." said Cleaves. who finished with a season-high 12 assists. 
Michigan State, which had a 41-16 rebounding advantage, began clearing its bench ~ith 
4:32 left, following two free throws by David Thomas that gave the Spartans an 82-4_6 lcad. 
'"We were a step behrnd all day," Kruger said. "As a rnsult, they were shooting shots they shoot in practice. We didn't do much to disrupt them or get them out of their rhythm." 
Oklahoma State 67, Baylor 51 
Just because Eddie Sutton's team won the game doesn't mean he had to like it. And he didn't, at least not the second half. 
Sutton found little to be happy about the final 20 minutes of No. 15 Oklahoma State's 67-51 victo­ry over Baylor. After play_ing crisply in taking a 41-19 halftime lead, the Cowboys were sloppy and got outplayed during much of the second half. 
"We lost our intensity and it shows up in rebounding, it shows up in careless passing ... but we won the game," Sutton said. "I think it bothers any coach who's been in the game very long. It shouldn't happen to a senior ballrlub." 
One of those seniors, Brian Montonati, scored all 13 of his points in the first half, when the Cowboys (16-2, 5-1 13ig 121 took control. A freshman, Andre Williams. was one of' the bright spots of the second half, scoring all his 11 points . 
Oklahoma State shot 53 per­cent in the first half and 50 per­cent for the game, while Baylor tl0-8, 1-6) was held to a season­low 26 percent (17-of-65). 
"We came up here and we had to do all we could to slow the game down a little bit," coach Dave Bliss said. "They're a great full-court team, whether it's defense or offense. We went through a period of about seven minutes of the first half' or so where we lost control of the game." 
The Cowboys didn't score a basket until nearly three min­utes had elapsed. but that start­ed a 20-5 run that ended any doubt about the outcome. Montonati scored seven during that time, and Baylor went 11 straight trips without a basket during a portion of that spurt. 
Oklahoma State closed the half with an 8-0 run that made it 41­19 at halftime. Baylor slowed the tempo in the second half, and the Cowboys appeared to lose interest. and as a result Baylor was able to keep the final score respectable. 
The Cowboys were outscored 32-26 in the second half, when they committed 12 of their 18 turnovers. 

"I thought we played really good basketball the first 20 min­utes," Sutton said. "Second half, different story." 
He called a timeout in the first minute of the second half to scold his team, and later came out of his seat and yelled "What in the world's going on?" as he called another timeout. 
He and his players took a little longer than usual to make it to the post-game interviews. 
Oklahoma State's best player. Desmond Mason. said the Cowboys' inability to turn big leads into blowouts is a concern. 
"You should have that killer instinct like some of these big men like Duke," he said. "They put people away. I think we should have that same killer instinct, but we didn't show it today." 
Baylor was forced to do most of its shooting l'rom the perime­ter and it didn't work. The Bears had live first-half' 3-pointers, but wound up just 8-of-34 from beyond the arc. 
Glendon Alexander and Andre Williams scored 11 each for Oklahoma State. Mason had just 10 points, nine below his aver­age, but grabbed 10 rebounds and had four steals. 
PRO TENNIS 
Agassi could be among best ever 
Aosociated Press 
MELllOUllNE, Australia 
Is Andre Agassi now to be considered superior to Pete Sampras, better than Grand Slammers Hod Laver and Don Budge, the best of all time? 
l lerctical notions, perhaps, especially Down Under in Laver country, but one not without merit as Agassi bar­rels through the Grand Slams. 
Champion at the French, 
U.S. and Australian Opens, and runner-up at Wimbledon in the past eight months, Agassi is playing at a level so high, on such varied courts, and against such deep draws that he is arguably the most talented man ever to pick up a racket. 
Al the rate Agassi is going, he could challenge Sampras for the most major titles before they're done, even if Agassi is far behind at the moment, with half as many as Sampras' dozen. 
The cold beauty of Agassi's game, built on brute force with touches of finesse, sparkled in his march to the Australian Open title Sunday in a 3-6. 6­3, 6-2, 6-4 victory over defend­ing champion Yevgeny Kafelnikov. 
Agassi bludgeoned ground­strokes with metronomic regu­larity to wear down Kafelnikov, and threw in enough evilly angled slices and drop shots to harass the weary Russian into submission. 
In a tournament on a speedy, rubberized Rebound Ace court, Agassi rebu!Ted the two best servers in the sport, Sampras and Mark Philippoussis, and the next best baseline player, Kafelnikov. With his sleek. toned, muscular physique and his uncannily quick reflexes, Agassi was able to cut down bigger opponents like a body puncher in boxing. 
When Laver completed the Grand Slam in 1962 and 1969, and when Budge did it for the first time in 1938, they played on grass everywhere except on 
the French red clay. Neither that nor the fact that they also faced less fierce com­petition and smaller fields ­
64-man draws at the Australian, for example ­diminishes their achievements. 
In the context of their eras. thev were the best. 
Sc,. too. were Bjorn Borg, Jimmy Connors and John McEnroe in their glory days. Yet, none ever won all the majors, Borg shooting blanks at the U.S. Open, and Connors and McEnroe at the French Open. 
But consider what Agassi has done. At a time when ten­nis is a high-paying sport loaded with great athletes attended bv coaches and train­ers from around the world, he has beaten everyone but Sampras at Wimbledon in the majors the past year. That's a 27-1 record on clay. grass and the different hardcourts of the 
U.S. and Australian Opens. 
Though Sampras has won six times at Wimbledon, the oldest and most prestigious of the majors, his annual torture at the I~rench exposes the lim­its of his game. Not even a career-high 3 7 aces against Agassi in the semifinals here could save Sampras once Agassi got him into a rally mode. 
"Every time with Pete it's a big challenge," Agassi's coach, Brad Gilbert said. "If' you think you're too good, you just get knocked out. And deep down Andre thinks he has to get bet­ter to stay where he is." 
Getting better is what it's all about now to the 29-year-old Agassi. His resurgence to the top from No. 141 a little more than two years ago was built on a commitment to fitness and a belief that if he were in peak shape nobody could beat him. If it meant running up hills on Christmas Eve or pumping iron all day, he did it, and he's enjoying the payoff. 
"I feel like I'm stronger than I have ever been, I'm fitter than I've ever been, I'm mov­ing better than I've ever moved," Agassi said. 
Attention First-Year MBA's Would .,vou like to earn $23,760 for your second-year tuition? 
The William G McGowan Charitable Fund has just awarded the MBA program a grant that covers full tuition for the second year for two MBA students! Applicants must comply with the following criteria: 
-Must currently be enrolled full-timein the first year of the MBA program -Must currently have a 3.0 GPA . . 
_ Must submit a 500-l000 word essay on the contributions of Wi II iam G. McGowan, founder and chairman of MCI, to today's business world in general or to the telecommuni­cations field in particular -Must submit one letter of recomcndation from a faculty member -Must exhibit attributes such as scholarship, talent, leader­ship qualities, character and community involvement 
Winners will he llllfwu11ced in the spring. Contact: Julie.E.Rogers.2 J@nd.edu 
Monday, January 31, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Notre Dame falters in dual meet at Bloomington 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Assisram Sports Editor 
Despite a school record-tying hurl in the 35-pound weight throw by senior Matt Thompson, the men's and women's track and field teams fell short of victory in a dual meet at Indiana University. 
The men's squad won seven of the 15 events, but it wasn't enough to beat Indiana, as Notre Dame lost, 89-73. 
"'We had good performances, and just a couple of people didn't perform up to their capabilities, and it r.ost us," head coach .Joe Pia1rn said. 
The Irish competed without All-J\rnoricans Marshaun West and Ryan Shay, both of whom an~ out with injuries. West led the Irish at their home opener with an NCAA qualifying leap in thfl long jump, but injured his hamstring last week and is day-to-day. Shay. a distance runner. has not yet competed this season due to Achilks tcn­donitis. 
"We could have scored a friw 
m1,r~) points if Marshaun had 
b1-\!)l1 there," Piane said. "You 
put Marshaun back, and you 
run what we wern capable ol' in 
the 3,000 [meter runl and the 
800 and we're right back in it." 
Thompson threw 58 feet, 3 1/4 inches to tic his own school record and win the 35-pound weight throw. 
Frnshman Torn Gilbert 
scored his l'irst collegiate win. 
lie leapt 23-(i 3/4 to give Notre 
Dame the win in the long jump, despite West's absence. 
The Irish men won five run­ning events in the losing effort against the Hoosiers. Three of the five winners were repeats from the home quadrangular last week. 
Senior Chris Cochran again came out victorious in the 200­meter dash, and helped the Irish 400-meter relay team to its second consecutive victory with a time of three minutes, 
20. l Oseconds. 
Senior Phil Mishka had his second straight win in the 600­meter run. 
Sophomore Luke Watson returned from winning the 3,000-meter run last week to beat out a tough field in the mile with his time of 4: 11.76. 
Anytime you go out and set a personal record, you got to be happy with it,"Watson said. 
Notre Dame also brought a new winner to the victory stand -junior Terry Wray had his first win of the season with a first-place finish in th!' 400­meter dash. 
But the seven event victories couldn't put the Irish over the top. 
"I think that we were pretty inconsistent across the board," Watson said. "There were a few good performances that came up, but overall, we were pretty average. We kind of trained through it." 
The women were not able to 
match the Hoosiers, as the 
Irish only won four events in 
the dual meet. 
"/\ lot or our performances wen-i flat," senior Jen 
Engelhardt said. "Even though we're trying tu pull off the meet in terms of points, we basically train through them. We're really looking towards the bigger meets like the Big East and the Meyo and the Alex Wilson." 
Sophomore Liz Grow domi­nated the field in the 400­meter dash, finishing more than a second ahead of the sec­ond-place runner. 
Junior Leanne Brady came into her own, winning her sec­ond consecutive 800-meter race in a time of 2;15.20. 
All-American Jen Engelhardt was short of her 5-10 season­opening jump, which met pro­visional qualifications for the NCAA Championships. But her mark of 5-7 3/4 in the high jump kept her undefeated for the season. 
"I was pretty happy with the performance," Engelhardt said. "It just shows that J'm looking to improve. I'm looking for­ward to this next meet at home." 
The fourth and final win for 
the women came from fresh­
man Jennifer Ilandley, one of 
the cross country team's top 
performers this fall. Handley 
won the mile in a time of 
5:03.28. 
"I didn't run as fast as I 
wanted to run," Handley said, 
"But I personally think I ran 
pretty smart. I didn't try to 
control most of the race." 
The Irish return home Friday for the Meyo Invitational. with hopes that the home crowd will inspire them to victory. 

Welcome Back Party 
For Student Government 
All are Welcome 
Come Find Something to Do Opportunities on a Number of Issues For More Info: 631­9888 
Where: Student Government Office 203 Lafortume When: Monday, 
January 31, 2000 Bringing lt Time: 8:00-9:30 PM "Bringing It All Together." 

AU 'Together 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, January 31, 2000 
HOCKEY 
leers remain in CCHA hunt with victory in Alaska 
comebar,k with an unassistP.d By MATT OLIVA goal at the 15:34 mark. Sports Writer 
McNeill broke down the mid­
dle and split the Irish defense 
The Notre Dame hor.kcv team with several tough moves came awav from the Unfversitv before beating Zasowski for of Alaska-~'airbanks with a win the four-on-lhnr smre. and a tie, giving them three Freshman Blaine Bablitz set points for the weekend. with up the game-tying goal, with every point from here on out sophomore Bobby Andrews crucial in the positioning for the sending home a JO\,v power­CCHA playoffs. play shot from the center of 
The Irish tll-13-6, 8-5-5 the blue line with 1:55 loft to CCllA) are currently in fifth play. place, but trail the two third The two teams had great place teams by only four points. scoring opportunities with Michigan State and Lake less than a. minute left in the Superior State hold on to the overtime period. Dan Carlson third position, but the Spartans sel Jue Dusbabck for a great are slumping. while Lake shot, but Nanook goaltender Superior is surging ahead. Lance Mayes turned him 
The Nanooks rallied for two back. goals in the second game of the Then with .less than seven series Lo earn one point in tl1e seconds remaining, Heinheller weekend by forcing a tie. The broke free for one last shot. two goals rame within the final Irish goalie Tony Zasowski five minutes of the game. deny­was there to make the save ing the Irish a two-win week1md, with his pad and preserve the 
Jay Kopischke opened the tic. scoring for the Irish in the first In Priday night's game. the period. knocking the puck in for two teams played another his fourth goal of the season. close game, but the Irish UAF answered right back when found a way to survive for the junior right wing Ryan win. Juniors Dan Carlson and Reinheller tied the game with a Ryan Dolder scored goals for power-play goal later in the first Notre Dame within a six­period. minute stretch of the second 
Irish sophomore David Inman period and Zasowski was able then converted two power play to hold off UAF to earn a 2-1 first period but failed to capital­Dolder's goal ca.me first for the way through the period. Hisgoals to give Notre Dame a com­victory. 
ize on three power plays, includ­Irish, off a play setup by Inman goal was setup up off of a deflec­manding 3-1 lead over UAF. The Notre Dame was down first in ing a 37-second stretch of !ive­and Andy Jurkowski. The two tion from right wing Michaelgoals came midway through the this game. UAF sophomore on-three play. But the Nanooks linemates found Dolder at the Chin ·s shot from the top of thesecond period and early in the defenseman Daniel Carriere con­managed just nine shots on goals top of the slot, where he quickly circle. The puck came loosethird period. verted on the power play early in the rest of the way, with the Irish beat the UAF goaltender. between the drcles and CarlsonWith less than five minutes the second period for a 1-0 lead. 
owning a 19-6 shot edge during Carlson scored his third game­found the net for his team-lead­
remaining in regulation, UAF The Nanooks had most of the 
the decisive second period. winning goal of the season mid-ing seventh power play goal. 
LW Kevin /\IcNeill ignited the oppordrnities in the scoreless 
PGA 
Lehman plays up to expectations in Phoenix Open 

bar.k titles in 1974-75, when was, it couldn't have been as two-putted. and hit a 9-iron approar.h shot Associated Press 
the tournament was played at sharp as the anguish of third­But Lehman got the shot that bounced hard and rolled the Phoenix Country Club. round leader Frank Lickliter back with another birdie on over the back of the green. He 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. 
Lehman lives in Scottsdale, and 1996 Phoenix champion No. 6. went to 12-under with chipped up. but it didn't bite 
The statistics said Tom 
and his fifth career title was Phil Mickelson, who began the an 18-foot birdie putt on the and rolled past the cup.
Lehman was playing superbly 
lhe first hometown win by day one shot behind. 11th hole, and caught up with "Obviously, the chip was the this year. So did Lehman. 
anyone since David Duval won Lickliter, who was 13-under Allenby with birdies on the worst thing I hit," Allenby
He had a chance to repeat the 1999 Players to start, shot himself out of 14th and 15th holes. said. "Well, I guess you could himself again Sunday, when 
Championship in Ponte Vedra, contention early, bogeying 1.he Allenby played 17 holes also say the putt. But I felt 
he broke his four-year tour 
Fla. first hole and taking a triple without a bogey. Ile drove off confident out of the chip, but it victory drought by winning the The $576,000 first prize bogey-8 on the third, and fin­the 18th tee with a 3-wood, just went a little bit long."
Phoenix Open by. one stroke vaulted Lehman to second on ished with a 7 4 aftnr previous
when Robert Allenby bogeyed 
this year's money list rounds of 67-64-69. 
the last hole, 
{$673,150} in two PGA Tour Mickelson reached 14-under 
r----------------------~ 
Lehman won the Williams 
events, His strong start and held the lead until he I I
World Challenge on Jan. 2, but 
includes a tie for sixth in bogeyed the 11th and 12th 
the Phoenix Open was his first Hawaii two weeks ago. holes. lie carded a 73 to join I IShorin-Ryu
official title in 58 starts since 
He credited watching Tiger Lir.kliter and six others at 
he won the British Open and I I
Woods with his improvement. 274. 
the Tour Championship in 
lie was inspired by the way Casey Martin, who battled I Karate 
I
1996 and was the Tour's 
Woods remained cool even the PGA Tour for the right to Player of the Year. 
when struggling. ride in a golf cart between •Discipline
Both men had difficult putts 
"He didn't throw away shots because of a medical on the final hole. shots," Lehman said... So dur­condition that is killing his •Self-Defense 
Lehman saved par with a 10­ing the offscason, I thought right leg, ma.de the cut in this •Self Confidencefoot putt for a. scoro of 4-under 
about it, 'What is it that I do? I event but struggled the last 
67 and a 72-hole total of 14-•Fitness
throw away shots.' That's kind two rounds (71-75) and fin­under 270. 
of the reason I felt so good ished at 287. 
"I played pretty scrappy." he 
going into this year N that's Lehman shot a 63 in the 
said, ··1 didn't hit the ball well 
something you can correr-L. first round to share th!~ lead 
very often. I hit a lot of shots You know, il' I couldn't drive it with Mickelson, and led every­off-center. off-line. but I made 
out of mv shadow. and if I one after a 67 the next day. 
a couple of really good putts." 
couldn't ~hip or putt at all, But on Saturday his putter
Allenbv. who has never won 
then 1·d be worried. deserted him and he carded a 
on the PGA Tour. missed a. 5­
"But I've br,pn beating 7~, whir,h left him 10-under 
footr~r when I.he ball made a 
myself for three years." and three shots off the lead. 
right turn on the rim and 
Allenby. a 28-year-old "It would have been easy for rolled a foot away. Australian, had his best finish me to have gone out and shot Register in Advance at RecSports
"Those are the breaks," he 
in the United States, improvin){ 71 or 72 or something and let 
said. "I know I'll win down the For More Info. Call 1-6100 
on a tie for fourth in the 1998 my negatives feelings about 
road." 
B.C. Open, my putting carry over. bul Demonstration
His final-round 69 landed 
Brandt Jobe, Kirk Triplett they didn't," Lehman said. him in a tie for second with and Hal Sutton tied for third at He started the round with a Tuesday, February 1, Rockne Rm. 219 6:30PM 
defending champion Rocco 
272. with Edward Fryatt, Mark birdie on the first hole. 
Mediate. who had the best Ru:,~
Calcavecchia and Steve Flesch bogeyed the fifth when he 
next-year performance at the 
in the next trio a shot back. drove into the rough. had to www.nd.eclu/~recsport
TPC ol' Scottsdale. 
As painful as Allenby's finish chip up on his third shot and 
Johnny Miller won back-to­
~----------------------J 
Monday, January 31, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
NCAA SWIMMING NFL 
UWO swin1rners injured in crash Montana enters 
Associated Press 
BROOKSTON, Ind. 
A van carrying members of the University of Wisconsin­Oshkosh ·s swimming team overturned Sunday on icy Interstate 65, injuring two stu­dents, Indiana State Police said. 
Deana Ritzman. 18. was ejected from the van after it slid into the median and rolled over abllut 5 miles west of Brookston in White County. 
Hitzman, of Brookfield, Wis., was listnd in fair condition Sunday night at St. Elizabeth Hospital in Lafayette, where Amy Stair, 21, o/' Sussex, Wis., also was in fair condition. 
Ten other students, including the van's driver, John A. Frank{'. 22. o(' Oshkosh, Wis., weri: trnatnd and released, a hospital spokesman said. 
UW-Oshkosh athletic director Allen Ackerman said the stu­dents were returning from a nine-day training trip, includ­ing a meet in Florida. . . 
Cpl. Mike McCormick said that about 20 minutes before the accidenl slate troopers pulled over three Oshkosh vans traveling in a northbound cara­van and warned their drivers to slow down because hPavy snow had fallen just hours before. 
About 8:25 a.m., the middle van in the caravan slid on the roadway and rolled over once. No other vehicles were involved in the accident. 
Brookston is about 75 miles southeast of Chicago. 
This was the sPcond van accic­dcnt involving a college swim­rn iu g team in the last month and the fourth with a colleg<i team. 
On Jan. 13, Molly Hatcher, co-captain of the Kenyon College women's swim team, was killed when the school van slid on an icy road into a high­way guardrail and rolled sever­al times. 
Hatcher, a 21-year-old senior. was thrown from the van and died in the crash on 
U.S. 36 about 6:i miles east of Columbus, Ohio. Ten other swimmers were injured. 
Nine days later, five women from DePaul's track team were injured, one critically, when a school van they were riding in rolled ovf\r on Interstate 65 after hitting a patch of ice. 
On Dec. 29, a van carrying the men's basketball team from Urbana University slid on ice and crashed into a tree, injur­ing five people. 
SUPERBOWL XXXIV 
Warner wins another MVP 
Associated Press 
ATLAJ\TA 
Kurt Warner's storybook season ended with the ulti­mate exclamation point Sunday -a record-breaking Super Bowl \1VP performance. 
The quarterback who once tossed rolls of toilet paper around an Iowa supermarket, threw passes just as easily in the glare of pro football's most dramatic setting, picking apart TPnnessep's secondary and leading the St. Louis Hams to the NFL champi­onship, 2:{-16. 
Warner completed 18 passes for 277 yards in the first half alone, with six straight com­pletions in one drive; and set a Super Bowl halftime record for attempts with 35. 
He constructed a 16-0 lead. Then, when Tennessee made a furious second-half come­bar.k to tie the score, he won the game with a 73-yard tour.hdown pass to Isaac Bruce. 
That gave him a record 414 vards for the game, breaking llall of Famer Joe Montana's record of 357. 
Warner was following in the Super Bowl successes of high profile passers such as Bart Starr, Roger Staubach, Terry Bradshaw and Joe Namath. 
The difference was that those guys were future Hall of Famers, expected to produce championships for their teams. \Varner came out of football's shadows to bring this one to the Rams, who had struggled through nine straight losing seasons before finding him almost by acci­dent. 
This was a success story almost too corny to be true. 
After playing at Northern Iowa -hardly a hotbed of NFL talent -Warner spent three seasons on the outskirts of pro football with the Iowa Barnstormers of the fringe Arena Football League, and one more in NFL Europe with the Amsterdam Admirals. 
He was a backup with the Rams, an insurance policy that St. Louis cashed in when $16:5 million free agent Trent Green was injured in training camp. And suddenly, the anonymous quarterback blos­somed into a full-fledged NFL 
ATTENTION JUNIORS!!! 
Lector auditions for the JPW 2000 Mass will be held TODAY, Jan 31st from 4-5 .m. and TOMORROW February 1st from 7-8 .m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
All Juniors interested in serving 
this ministry are encouraged to 
attend one of these sessions!! 
star. 
Warner directed a high­powered St. Louis attack to a 13-3 season, setting a team record for passing yards with 4,353 and throwing 41 touch­down passes. He joined Dan Marino as the only player in NFL history to throw 40 or more TDs in a season. 
He was the regular season MVP, a most unlikely candi­date for the award, given his humble football roots. A year ago, he said, even he wouldn't have dreamed of this. 
"At the time, it wasn't very realistic to think I'd be the starter in the Super Bowl," Warner said. "They were try­ing to figure out if I was good enough to be the backup. 
"I always believed in myself. There were no doubts that if I ever got the opportunity, that I could be successful. I contin­ued to believe that through the times I worked in the supermarket and the times I played in Arena Football. I never lost sight of that. To me, that's what it's all about ­believing in yourself, waiting for that opportunity and then seizing it when it came. 
"I was just hoping I would get an opportunity throughout the season to play and to show people what I could do." 
And that turned out to be plenty. 
Hall on first ballot 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
It is easy to understand why Joe Montana and Ronnie Lott were such good friends, their closeness extending beyond winning four Super Bowls together with tho San Francisco 49ers. They appreciated that both were perfectionists on the field. There were some practices in which Montana was quarterbacking and the football never hit the ground. If Lott blew a cover­age scheme, it made the evening news. 
Morn than 40,000 passing yards later for Montana a1_1d eight Pro Bowls at three d1f­feren t positions later for Lott, the two men stood and hugged each other today after being told they had just been elected into the Pro Football Hall of fame. 
This was about as much of a mystery as the end of a "Columbo" rerun. Both were first-time nominees, and there was little doubt that they would be chosen. Montana may have been the best football player ever, and one could easily argue that Lott was the toughest and most skilled defensive back to play the game. 
"The thing I'll most take from all my years -and I was on some great teams," Montana said, "but the thing I'll remember the most are my friendships." 
The Hall of Fame added three more members. 
The two additional players are Howie Long, who played 13 seasons with the Oakland Raiders and had 84 career sacks, and Dave Wilcox, who played 11 seasons with the 49ers and was considered by many to be the best outside linebacker of his day. 
Also voted in was the Pittsburgh owner Dan Rooney, one of the classiest men in football, who has spent 45 years in various capacities with the team. His father, Art, who died in 1988, entered the Hall of Fame in 1964. 
The Hall of Fame panel consisted of 38 writers and broadcasters, and election required 80 percent of the 
Ki Aikido 
Mondays -7:30-9:30 Beginning February 7 

Demonstration ') January 31 · 7:45pm Rockne 219 
Register in Advance at RecSports Class Fee is $19 Call 1-6100 for More Information 
R~~ 
vote. Inductions will take place July 29 in Canton, Ohio. 
As usual, there were debates about both the play­ers who got in and the ones who did not. A minority in football wonders if Long is truly Hall of Fame material, despite making it to eight Pro Bowls. 
The former Giants middle linebacker Harry Carson, who is one of the best run stoppers in team history and who played in nine Pro Bowls, was shut out for the ., seventh time. 
The biggest argument cen­ters on Lynn Swann and John Stallworth, the former Pittsburgh stars. Swann, in his 13th year of eligibility, played nine years with the Steelers, winning four Super Bowls and catching 53 touchdowns. Stallworth, in his eighth year of eligibility, also won four titles and had 63 touchdowns. 
Few receivers have put up those kinds of numbers, especially on a team that had two great pass catchers, still, they continue to be shut out. Part of the reason may be the voters do not feel both should go in; since both players were close in ability, the votes are most likely being split. 
There was never any doubt with Montana and Lott. Montana played through a variety of injuries, and despite his model-like appearance, he was one of the tougher quarterbacks to play the game. His best attributes were an incredibly accurate arm and coolness under pressure. 
Montana's eight Pro Bowls remains a record for quar­terbacks, and several of his drives are legendary, espe­cially the one in Super Bowl XXIII, when he led his team 92 yards in the final minutes to beat the Cincinnati Bengals. In all, Montana directed 31 fourth-quarter comebacks, and he holds six Super Bowl passing records, including 11 touchdowns and 357 passing yards. Lott was the epitome of a defen­sive back: he was able to cover the swiftest receiver while playing cornerback but could make a devastating hit from the safety spot. Lott made the Pro Bowl at cor­nerback as well as at free and strong safety. 
No one was tougher. In the final game of the 1985 sea­son, Lott seriously damaged his left pinky. Doctors told Lott that he needed surgery immediately or he could lose the finger. 
That operation would have required him to miss the coming playoff game against the Giants. So Lott made a decision that demonstrated how much football meant to him. 
He told the doctors, "I'm going to have to let that fin­ger go." 
It was amputated, and Lott played against the Giants. 
Want to cover golf? Call 1-4543 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, January 31, 2000 
SUPERBOWL XXXIV 
St. Louis holds on for 23-16 victory over Tennessee 
dication for coach Dick 
Associated Press 
Vermeil, who returned to coaching in 1997 after being
ATLANTA 
gone for 14 years. He had lost 
The St. Louis Rams redis­
his only other Super Bowl 
covered their offensive fire­
appearance, in 1981 with 
power just in time, and the 
Philadelphia.
Tennessee Titans came up 
"You know I'm an emotional 
just 1 yard short. 
guy hut right now I fel'l so 
Kurt Warner's 7 3-yard good and so proud of this 
touchdown pass tu Isaac 
football team and organiza­Bruce with 1 minute. 54 ser­tion," said Vormiel. known for 
onds left gave the Rams their 
shedding a tear or two at 
first Super Bowl "vin Sunday, 
times. "To be able to bring
23-16. 
this home to St. Louis, such a 
The TD capped an improba­
wonderful city. I know they
ble turnaround for St. Louis, 
appreciat,? us a little more which was 3-13 a year ago nght now. 
and 13-3 this season as they 
The Rams outgained the 
scored 526 points, third best Titans 294 yards to 89 in the 
in NFL history. 
first half, but led just 9-0. 
.. But Steve McNair and Eddie 
The first three possessions
George almost led Tennessee ended with field-goal attempts
to another miracle finish. ral­
and the Hams holding a 3-0 
lying them from a 16-0 deficit. 
lead. 
On the game's final play 
St. Louis took the opening
with six seconds left, McNair's 
kit:koff and drove from its 
caught by Kevin
pass was own :n to the Titans 17, twice 
Dyson at the Rams 5. He 
converting third and long
scrambled for the end zone 
plays. But holder Mike Horan 
only to be stopped just short 
fumbled tho snap on what 
by Mike Jones, as Uyson's out­
would have been a 35-vard 
stretched arm held Lhe ball fi~ld-goal attempt "and 
toward the goal line in vain. 
Tennessee got the ball at its 
"I always believed in myself, own 29. 
and had a whole bunch of The Titans then moved to 
people who believed in me," the St. Louis 26 on a 32-yard
said Warner, the Super Bowl 
screen pass from McNair to 
MVP who did a victory lap 
George.
around the Georgia Dome. 
But a delay of game penalty
"We're the world champions! 
stalled the drive and Del 
How about the Rams!" 
Greco missed a 47-yard field 
Warner, a former Arena 
goal.
League and NFL Europe quar­
Warner then hit two quick
terback, finished 24-of-45 for passes, 32 yards,. to Torry Holt 
414 yards and two touch­
and 17 to Marshall Faulk. But 
downs. 
that drive stalled at the 9­
The Rams dominated for 
yard line and Jeff Wilkins hit 
much of the game but had to a 27-yard field goal to give St. 
settle for three field goals to Louis the lead. 
take a 9-0 lead before finally 
The Rams got another 
scoring a touchdown. 
chance when Warner found 
St. Louis seemed to have put Faulk all alone for a 52-yard
the game away when Warner 
completion to the 17. But 
threw a 9-yard pass to Torry 
Wilkins missed a 34-yard
Holt with 3:59 left in the third 
attempt 12 seconds into the 
quarter to take a 16-0 lead. 
second quarter.
But suddenlv the Titans' 
The Titans kept the Rams 
offense came t~ life and the 
out of the end zone againSt. Louis defense began to 
after St. Louis drove 73 yards 
wear down behind the batter­
from its own 16 to the 
ing of George and short pass­Tennessee 11. This time Isaac 
es from McNair. 
Bruce dropped a pass in the 
Tennessee scored on its 
end zone and Wilkins ended 
next two possessions, both on 
up kicking a 29-yard field 1-yard runs by George to 
goal to make it 6-0. 
make it 16-13 with 7:21 left. 
The Rams then went 67 
It would have been 16-14, but 
yards in 13 plays but ended 
the Titans chose to go for two _ up again with just a field goal,
points on their first TD and a 29-yarder by Wilkins. 
failed. 
The Titans reached the St. 
Al Del Greco's 43-yard field Louis 27 on the opening pos­
goal tied it with 2:12 left. 
session of the second half. But 
Then the Rams' quick strike 
Del Greco's 47-yard field-goal
for a touchdown set up one of attempt was blocked by Todd the most exciting finishes in Lyght.
Super Bowl history. The 
The Rams followed the 
Titans, however, just didn't block with a 68-yard, eight­
have enough at the very end. 
play drive for the game's first 
"We've been doing this off touchdown. It came two plays
and on during the year. We after the game was delayed
knew we had an opportunity 
for about 10 minutes while 
to go on in and score," McNair 
Titans safety Blaine Bishop
said of the game's final play 
was treated for a strained 
on Dvson's near-touchdown 
neck. 
lunge. "We said. on the side­
On third-and-goal from tho 
line when they scored that the 9, Holt slid inside of Dainon 
only fault they did was scor­Sidney and Warner sidearmed 
ing too quick. We foll just the ball to him through tho 
short." 
Tennessee pass rush and it 
Dyson almost became a big was 16-0. 
hero for th!' second time this 
Rut the Titans came back, 
season. He was the key player driving 66 yards for their first 
in lhe miracle finish that beat 
score, a 1-yard TD run by
Buffalo in the wild-card gamr, George with 14 seconds left in 
taking a lateral and going 75 
the third quartrr. The key on 
yards for a touchdown on a that drive was McNair's 23­
kickoff return with three sec­
yard scramble to the 2, the 
onds left. 
first time ho broke loose all 
The Rams' victory was vin­day. 
j Please recycle The Observer. j 

KRT Wide receiver Tory Holt (88) and wide receiver Isaac Bruce (80) celebrate Holt's second half touchdown catch in Superbowl XXXIV. 
Elections!! 
Are you interested in running for 
Student Body PresidentNice President 
for the 2000-2001 school year? 
If so, please come to an informational meeting on Monday, January 31, 2000 at8pm in the Notre Dame Room 
on the .second floor of Lafortune Student Center 
At least one member of each ticket should attend. If you are unable to attend, or have any questions, please contact Becky Demko, Judicial Council Vice President at 631-4556. 
~ -. ..3 !' -!' -' . C~ 
brought to you by : JLA,(llAA...AAAA/ 

Monday,January 31, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame big man comes up "big time" in win 

ie~~ 
LRTE KIGHT 
LYMPIC 
2 D D D 

of the time, just like tonight, we die by it."
Men 
The Irish out-rebounded continued from page 28 
the Red Storm 40-32 and shot 51 percent from the ended the game. field. St. John's made just 35 
"Unfortunately for us, percent of its shots and got Notre Dame took· advantage five points from its bench. of the opportunities when Barkley and Bootsy they were presented, where­Thornton scored a team-high as we didn't," St. John's head 15 points in the loss for the 
..
coach Mike Jarvis said. "They Red Storm. Matt Carroll had deserved it. As much as we 10 points for Notre Dame, would have liked to wi.n the while David Graves had eight game, I certainly would never points and five assists. take anything away from the opposition because all these 
Notes:
kids played hard. Notre 
. With the win, Notre Dame
Dame made some big plays improves to 13-8 on the sea­when they had to and they son and 4-3 in the confer­
won another big game." 
ence. The Irish are now tiedSt. John's didn't stick to its for fifth place in the Big East. 
game plan and launched an . The Irish still have their
uncharacteristic 29 three­hopes set on a NCAA
point field goals. The Red Tournament berth. "I don'tStorm made just seven of 
think it is out of reach,"
them. 
Dillon said. "We've had many"[It was] totally out of char­key wins and a couple of loss­
acter," Jarvis said. "I've 
es to some good teams. Right
always felt that the three­now each game is important
point shot is fool's gold and and we are focused on win­
tonight we went after the 
ning the Big East."
fool's gold. Our game is 
. The victory marked theattacking the basket, regard­first time since the 1991-92less of what type of defense season that Notre Dame has
the opponent is playing. The 
beaten three ranked teams inthree is not a shot that we're 
one year.
going to Jive by, because most 
Got Sports? Call 1-4543 

The Irish basketball team needed a victory, and Troy Murphy delivered. 
Big-time. 
The sophomore forward scored 30 points and pulled down a career­high 18 rebo­unds in Notre Dame's 73-60 victory over No. 23 St. John's 
(13-5, 5-2) Saturday. 
"Freaking guy gets 30 points and 18 rebounds," Noire Dame head coach Matt Doherty said. "That's big-time. Big, big big­time. He's done that time and time again." 
The Irish (12-8, 4-3) were down 6-0 before Murphy hit a jumper with 16 minutes, 5 sec­onds to play in the first half. 
But Murphy changed that in a hurry. On the next Irish pos­session, the 6-foot-10 Murphy had a slam dunk. With that basket, he joined the ranks of Notre Dame players who scored at least 1,000 career points. 
Murphy played down the role of his talent and hard work in reaching the 1,000­point mark, instead focusing on how his teammates helped him along the way. 
"You have to have great teammates to get you the ball," Murphy said. "They're really not tough shots. A lot of people in my situation could do the same." 


Puchase Raffle Tickets from your LHO Hall fiepresentatiue. The cost is ~ tickets for a$1. 00 donat10n. There u.riH be well ouer turn hundred qreat prizes raffled off at LHO. You need not be present to win. See your LHO Hall Hep. for more details! 
Gift Certificates 
for Food/ 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2000 • 7:00 PM -4:00 AM .JOYCE CENTER • 631 -61 OD 
AL.L. LNO MEDALS WERE: DONATED av THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
In the next five minutes of 
play, Murphy scored 11 points, 
keeping the Irish in the game 
almost single-handedly. 
And he kept up the stellar 
play all day long, shooting 1 l 
of 13 from the field and adding 
seven free throws to lead the 
game in scoring. 
Murphy led the Irish on both 
ends of the court, with 13 of 
his 18 rebounds coming on 
defense. He also added two 
blocks and two steals, with 
only one personal foul. 
Yet he didn't seek to think 
his performance was any big 
deal. When asked about his 
play, Murphy shrugged, 
grinned and gave credit for the 
victory to point guard Jimmy 
Dillon. 
Murphy said it was Dillon's 
steal and slam dunk with 2:19 
remaining that turned the 
game in Notre Dame's favor. 
"It was a great play and that 
was what won us the game," 
Murphy said. 
But no matter how key 
Dillon's play was. the Irish 
never would have been in the 
game without Murphy. 
Irish opponents have a 
slightly different take on 
Murphy's impact than he has. 
They know that containing 
Murphy is a prerequisite for 
beating the Irish. 
Ranked teams like 
Connecticut and St. John's 
learned that the hard way. 
Neither team found an answer · to defending Murphy -a fatal 
error. Murphy snagged at least 
16 boards and put up 30 or 
more points in both games, 
and the Irish went home victo­
rious. 
[n eight Irish losses this sea­
son, Murphy has bAen held 
below his scoring average 
seven times. The lone excep­
tion was an 81-64 overtime loss at Indiana, whern Murphy scored 25. 
"He can do so many things in so many different ways to hurt you,': St. }ol~~1·s ,coach Mike Jarvis said. He s an excep­tional player' an unbelievable competitor. He's having an All­American year." 
Murphy is doing everything he can to make Jarvi.s's words ring true. 
Murphy seems an obvious pick for All-Amerir.an teams as the only player in the nation ranked in the top ten in both scoring and rebounding. He was named to midseason All­America teams by Dick Vitale, USA Today and The Sporting News. 
And he's just a sophomore. 
Big East teams know better than to overlook Murphy, who could drive the Irish into con­tention for a Big East title. 
Although Notre Dame is tied for fifth in tho Big East right now, only Syracuse is more than one game ahead of Notre Dame in the standings. If Murphy and the Irish play the way they did against St. John's Saturday, they may be able to make a run at Syracuse, if not in the regular season, in the Big East tournament. 
Murphy leads the Big East in scoring and rebounding, and has been selected as Big East player of the week five times this season. 
Doherty knows how lucky 
tho Irish are to have a player 
like Murphy. 
"One thi.ng I don't want to take for granted is Troy,'' Doherty said. 'Tm fortunate to be his college coach." 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, January 31, 2000 
NBA 
MJ hires 
new coach 
for Wizards 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Michael Jordan's first choice apparently didn't work out. so he reportedly turned to Darrell Walker to coach the Washington Wizards. 
T h e Washington Post and several broad ca.st outlets reported Sunday that Walker, for­

mer coach Jordan 
of the 
Toronto Haptors, will be hired 
as the team's interim coach dur­
ing a Monday afternoon news 
conference. Jordan·s attempt to 
hire Golden State assistant Rod 
Higgins apparently fell through 
over the issue of compPnsation. 
The reports endrd a day of confusion surrounding the team. Gar Heard was fired after Saturday night's victory over Cleveland, and the players were told in the locker room that Higgins. a former teammate of Jordan's and one of his golfing pals, would be the new coar.h. 
Last week, Jordan sought and received permission from the Warriors to talk to Higgins. Higgins did not attend the Golden State's practice Sunday, but coach Garrv St. Jean told reporters that: as far as he knew. a deal had not been com­pleted and that Higgins was still employed by the Warriors. 
The Post reported that the Warriors' asking price for Higgins was too steep for the Wizards' liking, calling for alter­ation of a 1994 trade between the two teams in a complicated maneuver that could affect the Wizards' first-round draft choice this year. 
Washington then turned to Walker, who played four sea­sons in Washington from 1987­91. 
"I felt we should [make the coaching change) now while we still can salvage something of the season," Jordan told the Post in a telephone interview. "That doesn't guarantee anything, but l feel we've got to change the attitude on this team. We've got to kick-start the team and that starts with the coach." 
However it turns out. Jordan's first major move as a member of NBA management hasn't gone very smoothly -or tactfully. 
From the day he pledged to put his "imprints and footprints all over" the Wizards, Jordan gave lleard thP cold shoulder. Jordan spent virtually no one­on-one time with the coach while negotiating in secret to replace him with an old buddy. 
Jordan was not around when he fired Heard on Saturday night. He was in Atlanta for the Super Bowl. while Heard and his players were feeling good about a gritty victory over the Cavaliers. General manager Wes Unseld was left to deliver the news. 
Heard saw the writing on the wall shortly after Jordan was made part-owner and president of basketball operations Jan. 19. Jordan met individually with several veterans and at length with Unseld. but nevAr with Heard. 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Belles earn first win of season at home 
By KATIE McVOY Spom Writer 
ThP Saint Marv's basketball team claimed it~ first win of' t.he season Saturday against Olivet College 67-63, breaking an 18-game losing streak. 
Saint Mary's came into the game immediately behind Olivet in MIAA rankings and was looking for the win. 
"We came into this game knowing that we could beat Olivet," freshman Kristen Matha said, "Knowing we were able to win gave us the edge." 
The last time Saint Mary's and Olivet met, Olivet came out on top. winning in the last minute of the gamP-. This time the IJelles had home court advantage. 
"Wf' knew that this was do or die," sophomore Ji1mie Stouffer said. "Ifwe didn't win this one we might not win omi all season, so we fr.It the urgency to go out there and take this one." 
"We knew we could go in thP.rc and win," junior Julie Norman added. "We were willing to give whatev1ir it took to win this game." 
Coach Dave Roeder started the game with a different line­up. starting Kelly Jones, Kristen Matha, Kelly l1obctrs, Julie Norman and Marv CampionP. · 
"l started ,1 taller line-up to sef' if' wo could rebound bet­ter," Hoedcr said. "If we could control the rebound, then we could control lhf' game." 
Sainl Mary's did control the rebound with 4 7 total robounds during the game. 
"Trying something new got us off on the right foot," Norman said. 
Thr. Belltis took the lead early in th!'! gamP by scoring nine unanswered points. The rest of the game was a strug­gle. with Saint Mary·s and Olivet exchanging tlrn lead. Saint Mary's had a Lwo point lead headin!-{ into the scr.ond half. 
"Thf' sncond half was ugly." 
Norman said. "But we kept our composure and that was what made the difference." 
Ten minutes into the second half the Lady Comets made t,vo three-point shols, taking the lead and forcing tho Belles to light bar:k. 
Saint rviary's responded with three straight scoring posses­sions that resulted in nine points. Julie Norman, Jaime Dineen and Jamie Stouffer made three consecutive three point shots and the Belles kept the IBad the rnst of the 
gamo. 
With a minute and a half left in tho game, freshman Kristen Matha made a three point play on a foul and Mary Campione sealed the win with 2 foul shots with 22 soconds 
remaining.  
Saturday's win  was  a team  
effort.  
"We played l l  women  and  
all 11 women contributed," Hcrndf'r said. 


Four women from the Saint Mary's team l'inished the game with total points in dou­ble digits. Jones led the team with 14 points. Norman fol­lowed with 12 points, and teammates Roberts and Dineen both scored ten points. l1oberts led the team with 11 rebounds wHh help from Matha and Jones who scored seven and six rebounds respectively. 
"It was a total team effort," Matha said. "Every single per­son who came off the bench contributed to Urn win." 
Following Sitturday's game the Belles enjoyed the feel of victory, with hugs and high­fiv!':s. 
"We swarmed them." Norman said. "It was really fun." 
The Belles fau: Kalamazoo Collflgc this Wednesday and they arc going to use this win to their advantage. 
"We're going to play the people that got the job done," H.oeder said. 
Stouffer added. "This gives us more motivation to practice hard and to try to go out them and get some more wins." 

While high blood pressure may have no symptoms, ft does have consequences. 
Like increasing your risk of heart attack and stroke. That's why you should ask your doctor to check your blood pressure and help you control it. Learn more at 
www.americanhaart.org or 
call 1-800-AHA-USA1. THE TASTY (HICKEN CLUB IS HERE TO STAY. 
One bite of the delicious Chicken Club, and you'll alway,s crave the flavor of its aU-white-meat chicken 
. 
.~
Amencan Heart 
topped with crispy bacon, fresh lettuce and tomato and mayonnaise. And that's no problem, bocause
Association. 
Flgl\llng HOlrt OilHao and Stroke now this ultra-satisfying sanclwlch is here to stay at BURGER KING'. So come on in and indulge your craving. The Huddle· l..aFatura Studanl Center PARTICIPATION MAY VARY. 

IT JUST TASTES BETTER~ 
www.burgerking.com 
Monday, January 31, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Ivey points the way to Notre Dame victories 
began. Saddled with injuries throughout 
Ry KERRY SMITH 
"She plays multiple roles on her collegiate career, Ivey has 
AasistJIH Sports Editor 
our team," said center Ruth had to push herself to return to Hiley. "She's our captain, so she the top of her game. Note to opposing players: Niele plays a big role as om leader. At "H was hard coming back," lvcy is watching you. point guard, she makes sure said Ivey. "But I set many goals 
And when vou have the ball, everyone is where they're sup­for myself when I was recover­she will lakn il from you in a sec• posed to irn and doing what ing from the injuries and I've ond. they'rn supposed to do." worked hard through the 
Note tu opposing coaches: Ivey, as the fourth leading months and the years to accom­wlwn she lms Lhe ball, you cttn scorer on the team. averages plish them.'' 
run 1hr pri>ss, but shr'II proba­11.:i points per game. She has Ivey suffered a torn ACL in the bly just break through lhc dou· led the team in scoring four sixth game or her freshman year bit, team while passing the ball limes this year and is a scoring that left her sidelined for the 
up court to her open teammate threat from in front of and season. under the basket. And she will bohinrl the arc. "When I was a freshman she do it all with a smile. But her point production for had just overr.ome her first 
"We're in the point of the sea­the Irish goes far beyond putting injury so even though she was a smi whnrH basketball <lay-in and the ball in the net. Ivey is the sophomore she was like a red­day-out is tiring," said lvPy, who team's play maker. She is an shirt freshman so we had the 
\\:ads the Irish in steals and unselfish member of the Irish same court exµerience," said assists. about her wide grin offensive game. She leads the Dunbar. "She was the point wlrnn slrn stops on thH court. team with 127 assists this sea­guard, and so the whole team "We're trying to bring some son -three times more than rested on her shoulders, and I more rnthusiasm on Hrn court," any other player on the team. looked at the way she responded continued Ivey. Tm trying to be Averaging almost seven assists to that and it was just amazing. that person to do that. ½'hen our per game, Ivey leads the Big She took us to the Sweet 16 that shots go in we start having fun." East and is ranked ninth nation­year." As thr. Irish head into the final ally. Ivey tore her ACL again during 
stretch of the season riding a 13-llefonsively, Ivey ls quick with the Big East tournament last garrw winning s1rnak with lvf'y her hands and feet, coming up season and was forced to watch at tho lwlm. the senior µoint with morn steals than any other her team in the tournament's guard has proven lo head coaC'.h Irish player. J\ menace to anyone championship loss to 
Muffnt i\1cGraw. her teammates on the court with the ball, Ivey Connecticut as well as Notre and her opponents that she is a made fivr, steals in Saturday's Dame's two NCAA tournament consummatP leader on and off meeting with Georgetown. appearances. tht:> court. lvcy's leadership doesn't just Working hard in the off-sea­
"She's our leader," said come f'rom her game perfor­son, Ivey returned to the court McGraw of the senior co-captain mance. Her focused attitude better than ever for the 099-'00 after Notre Dame's 87-56 win during the team's practices campaign, determined to lead met her knows she has a great acknowledging her importanceover GPorgetown Saturday night. pushes the rest of the squad to the Irish to the NCAA. tourna­
"We're a vet11ran team but we're personality and just loves bas­to the Irish. "I need to get every­
work harder. ment. 
ketball." one going and get them ready toa quiPt hmm, loo. It's a difficult "She dives, takes charges and "She has a spirit that will not 
That love for basketball has play as well as getting myself
position. She has a lot of respon­reallv hustles all the time in die," said Dunbar. "She will not propelled her this year to her ready to go. There are so manysibility but I think she's handling practice," said guard Imani be denied -That's the Niele most successful collegiate sea­different talents on the team ­it rnal well." Dunbar. "She doesn't take olT for Ivey I look up to." 
son. Ivey's leadership and skilled any person might step up duringeven one drill. When she's tired lvey's combination of poise performance has been a defining any game and so we all need toshe gets that look in her eye and and precision on the court isn't
Stacking stats 
feature of the Notre Dame team. be ready to play." 
A quick glance at the team's she just pushes herself harder." the only reason her teammates The Irish will look to her at While many different playersstatistics prove that Ivey is han­see her as a leader. 
tournament time to lead the have stepped up to lead the Irishdling the rnsponsibility well. She "She brings so much enthusi­
Battling back squad to victory. And that's a in their 19 games this season,
asm to the team," said Riley. " 
has guided her squad to its It is that drive and intensity role Ivey is willing and able to one thing is certain: When Ivey
longest winning streak in nine that has allowed Ivey to ovHr· She loves to joke around and is take. steps onto the court, she is
probably the funniest person
yPars and its longest home win­come much adversity to rise to 
"My role on the team is a always ready to be the team
ning streak since the program the top of the Irish roster. you'll ever meet. Anyone that's said 

l~G
,~udnll.Alumn1Rl::1ATIONSGR!.>l•f>
• 

That's right! Find the GO~D TOKEN that is hidden on campus and you will be the winner of a $100 gift certificate to University Park Mall. 

Look for the daily clue on the Alumni Association Website beginning Monday, January 31: 
http://alumni.nd.edu 
You will also find details here on how to claim your prize. 
SPONSORED BY SARG AND THE AlUMNI ASSOCIATION AS PART OF ALUMNI AWARENESS MONTH 
leader," Ivey, humbly leader and never disappoints. 
Amanda Barksdale (eight points, eight rebounds, five
Wolllen 
blocks) and junior Kelley continued from page 28 Siemon (six points, five rebounds). game. "We need to go eight deep 
"It was Notre Dame's night," [off the bench]," McGraw said. Georgetown head coaeh "Right now we have six play· Patrick Knapp said. "We ran ers that could be starting and into a team that shot very, two or three more who are 
.. 
very well today. They didn't going to help us." 
miss many shots. The last defeat for the Irish "I thought came on Dec. in the second 8 when they
"J think it is important to 
half we lost 71-61 to 
worked hard play our bench and get Purdue. Notre 
to sustain a them so time. It would Dame returns strong to action on
have been better ifthey
effort," Tuesday when 
Knapp con­could finish the game not they travel to 
tinued, "But turning the ball over or Providence to nothing went take on the
fouling as much but they 
in for long Lady Friars. 
stretches of played pretty well." Though she time," maintains that With the the winning
Muffet McGraw 
game in hand streak is not
Irish head coach
by halftime, of major McGraw was importance, able to give McGraw the b1mch players quality min­admitted she can see utes in the second half'. For improvement from her squad. the game, 11 of the 1 2 Notre "I think this is the best game Dame players scored. we've played in a while," 
"I think it's important we McGraw said. "Michigan State play our bench and get them [an 84-54 victory on Dec. 11] some time," McGraw said. "It was the best game we've would have been better if they played all year, but I think could finish the game not this one is right up there. turning the ball over or foul­"From the start w.e came out ing as much but they played hard and got them down and pretty well." kept increasing the lead," 
McGraw was especially added McGraw. "We really pleased with the performance kept expanding the lead and of two reserves, freshman that was important." 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, January 31, 2000 
the next five bouts to take thfi match. rreshman rorest
Fencing 
continued from page 28 
the foil match at 4 but also is going to be a nice fight." gave the Irish their 14th and Last weekend, Notre Dame deciding victory over the Nittany Lions. No. 1 foil starter
fell to Stanford 14-1 3 and St. Ozren Debic cruised to a 5-1
John's 16-11. victory to cap­
The k1w to tu re the foilSaturday's win 
"It is going to be very 
match for the
was the 7-2 
close come March 
trouncing the Irish.
between us, Penn State, 
"All year
sabre squad 
Stanfprd and St. John's 
these guysdealt Penn 
The title is really upfor
State. Led by have been
grabs. It_ is 9_oing,,lo 6e a 
battling,"
sophomores 
mce;rght. 
Harris said.
Gab01· Szelle. A n d r e "Every time
Jim Harris 
Crompton and we ha\'e put
men's foil captain 
some pres-
junior Andrezj sure on them,
Bednarski, the 
they've
sabre team set rcspondP.d in
the stage for the victory by vvinning its first six buuts. a positive vvay for us. Forest 
Due to past sabre team sur.­fenced well. Oz was amazing KEVIN DALUMfThe Observer Penn and Steve Mautone stepped up
c e ss against State, Senior epeeist James Gaither parries an attack in Saturday's fencing meet. Gaither finished the 
~orton was not surprised by when he hud to. It was a group weekend with a 7-6 record. effort."
the dominating victory. 
"In the past couple of years, The epee squad enjoyed less against rlorida, 22-5 against jumped out to a 4-3 lead. "That was kind of weird," he it has been 6-3, 7-2 and last success against the Nittany Duke, 24-3 against Cleveland Wilburt Gettys took a 4-1 lead said. "I don't think we were year it was 8-1, so we know we Lions. While freshman .Jan State. 20-7 against Air Force on sophomore All-American really awake." have a pretty good squad that Viviani won all three of his and 22-5 against Ohio State. Brian Casas in the eighth bout The 4-0 record improves the can heat them in sabre," bouts, sophomore Brian Casas Individually, the Irish also before Casas stepped up and Irish to 6-2 on the vear. Morton said. and senior captain James performed well. Debic led the captured four straight points to Despite the perfect Saturday 
In 1999, when the sabre Gaither combined for just one Irish with an unblemished 14-0 tie the match at four. record and win over Penn team gave the Irish a good win over Penn State. record while Jan Viviani's 10-1 The ninth bout was just as State, Notre Dame knows there start. the foil and epee squads "I didn't do so well," Gaither paced the epee team. All three tight as Air Force's Robert is still room for improvement. combined for just six wins in said. "I kinda put the blame on Irish sabre starters dominated Bremer and Viviani battled to "For the most part we were 18 bouts. 2000 was a different myself but we fenced ok. We with Szelle going 12-1. a 4-4 tie in regulation. In over­where we needed to be," story as the foil squad defeated fenced them tough. They are a Crompton 11-3 and Bednarski time, Viviani scored the first Morton said. "It was a great Penn State 5-4 and the epee good team." 10-1. touch to win the bout and the improvement over last week squad fell just short -losing The win over Penn State was Other than Penn State, the match, 5-4. but we still had one or two 5-4. just the highlight of a success­only challenge Notre Dame Gaither blamed the tighter mental lapses. It didn't cost us 
After falling behind 3-1 ful Saturday by the me-n's received came from a gritty Air than expected match on a lack anything but we are still not team. Notre Dame won 21-6
early, the foil team won four of Force epee squad. The Falcons of mental preparation. 100 percent focused." 
WOMEN'S FENCING 
Notre Dame drops close bouts, falls to Penn State 
Notre Dame was sharp and home. No one wants to disappoint the and Duke. Freshman Natalia 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
picked up five wins. Only "I think one big part of it coaches or have a black mark Mazur led the team with a 15­Associate Sports Edimr 
against the Nittany Lions was might be pressure to perform on the record." 1 record while captain the Irish inexperience a factor. at home," she said. "It's almost The women's sabre squad Carianne McCullough picked 
The women's fencing team "Overall we fenced pretty like we are expected to win. blanked both Cleveland State up 11 wins. learned the hard way Sunday well," DeMaio said. "Penn that little mistakes can add up State came in with all the hype to a big loss as the team fell to and the experience and they the defending national champi­are a lot deeper than us. But on Penn State ~ittany Lions, we pulled it out against the 21-6. other teams." 
The Irish lost seven 5-4 The 5-1 record on Sunday bouts to the l\'ittany Lions. improved the Irish to 10-1 on Notre Dame must win those the season. Wins over St. close bouts to beat a tough John's and Stanford last week­team like Penn State, accord­end coupled with the loss to­ing to head coach Yves Auriol. Penn State make Notre Dame 
"It should have been a lot arguably the second best closer," he said. "There is a women's team in the country. mental lack of experience. "Between last week and this 
[Senior] Magda [Krol] should week, we know where we deal better with those kind of stand." Auriol said. "Overall situations. It is a sign. When though I think it was a good you win the 4-4 matches, it weekend." means you are sharp and Led by the women's sabre focused." squad ~hich improved its 
Krol is the only Irish record on the year to 9-1 on 
women's fencer with NCAA the season, Notre Dame experience. Six of the Irish defeated Air Force 22-7, Duke starters are competing for the 20-7, Florida 17-10, Ohio State first time at the collegiate level 16-11 and Cleveland State 21­
while two other starters rarely 6. 
started before this year. lndividuallv, several Irish "Penn State has very cxpori­fenced well. Freshman Anna e nced fencers." Krol saiu. Carnick dropped just two bouts "ThPir whole starting linPup f'n route to a 12-2 week{'nd has been fencing for severul and 20-6 overall. Carnick years and in the NCAAs. Penn picked up the only two epee State has a good tradition of wins against the Nittany Lions. experienced fencers and our "Anna Carnick was just out­fencers am just beginning to standing today," DeMaio said. step up.'' "She dropped a bout to [Penn 
\1.ental sharpness is critical State /\II-American) Stephanie for improvement and winning Eim but she is always one of close bouts, according to epee the top fencers in the country.'' captain Kim DeMaio. Krol once again led the foil 
"fencing is such a head team with a 12-4 record. Krol, game," she said. "When we get however, strugglAd against the to 4-4, it is just more of a mnn­top foil fencers dropping two 
tal thing. WP-get more worried bouts tu Pen11 State and 011e to about what our fencers arc both Ohio State and Cleveland doing. We just have to focus on State. our g:amo." Krol chalked up hers and the 
Against the otlrnr five tr,ams team's overall struggles to the the Irish faced on Sunday. extra pressure of fencing at 


Monday, January 31, 2000 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
Fox TROT 

The Observer . TODAY 
TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 
page 27 
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 

beam.1@nd.edu 

2CD:l811~tr,,UriMlf'&.'l!Prl":SSyndir::rte 

TRUST ME, THIS IS THAT
YOU MAk'E IT
1l'S CALLED SOUNOS 
DAD. I SHOW MY
"1 WANT Llk'E 
1S THAT SoUND LlkE
WANT To SE A 
SAW THE HAS NO CHECIC•
YOUR 1 JUST
To BE A FUN.
CONTESTANT ON 
Rut.ES. STuD10 Boole
MILLIONAIRE." SURE. 
FINAL BLEW IT.
MY NEW 
/ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Nighttime 67 _-Day 1 Spat twinkler vitamins 
35 Aloha gifts 68 "Cool!" 37 Lucy's landlady 5 Dish with beans 
10 Trace of smoke 69 Vegas numbers 41 Neither large-game
14 Like Darth Vader 10 Belgrade native 
nor small­
caliber guns 
11 Churchill Downs 44 Watch secretly
15 Former inti. 
airline event 
45 Adult-to-be
16 ·1 had no !" 12 Aide: Abbr. 
46 Harvard rival 
11 Cerium and 
47 Rubber ducky's 
erbium, e.g. DOWN
spot
20 Map within a 1 Ms. Garr of "Mr. 
49 Nutty
map Mom" 
51 _ Moines, 
21 Bowl over 2 "Terrible" czar
Iowa 22 Old what's-_ J Mrs. in the
52 "Pow! Right in 
name White House
the !" 23 Golf pitfalls One on the lam
55 Green stuff 26 Mentally spaced 57 Newsman 5 Tax preparer, out briefly
Koppel 
2e Hawaii, e.g.: se Gave the once­6 One of two Abbr. over hardy followers Jo Statutes 60 Scottish inlets 1 Football stats: 32 Brit. recording 63 Compliment Abbr. 
giant from a Brit s Christine of "Chicago Hope" s Protected, as
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
D A G E D A. A f S 10 A L L E E G A. I T 11 S -:::-t-:-t~--,;-E D D A 12 H I N I E R D A L E 

13 
1s 
19 
24 
--=-i-,...11--11--11--11--1 25 
....r-:-1r-:-1t-::Nc1 21 
A E A M E -=-,.-..-:::+~.:. G 2e 
I N T O E L I N E 29 
S E E R R A N G E R O V E R 
E D D Y S T E A D I N E S S 31 
from disease Sense of humor Boise's state 
Baseball 
commissioner Bud Skip a turn 
Catchall abbr. Tooth protector Date maker "No !" 
("Easy!") 
In an apt way Doctrines Big first for a 
baby Fathered 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa~ nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
HOROSCOPE 
\IUNlJAY, JANUAR) 31, 2~00 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Norman Mailer, Carol Chan­n111g, Nolan Ryan, Stuart Margolin, Phil Cllllrns, Suzanne f'leshette, C,irry Moore 
Happy Birthday: You'll be able to draw others into your conversation, and this will add ·to your popularity thi, 1·ear. You will be outgoing and eager to share )'Our thoughts; howe,·­e r, some of your peers mav take ad,antage of your honesty and vour good nature. Don't take on too much. or you mav fall short of vour goals Yoi'ir numbers 3, 17, 22. 26, 32, 36 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You need a change, something adventur­GUS and exciting. Travel to exotic destinations may be the answer. Take a look at your budget and find a wa,· to make your plans a reafity 
00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will be ab!~ to make worthwhile /111ancial deals, but be sure to use other people's money. Sudden trips are apparent. Try to take your mate and mix business with pleasure. 
000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your mate may give you a hard time. His or her extreme sensitivity will result in hurt feelings. Don't let things get out of hand. Complete your work and spend some quality time together. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Mix business with pleasure by socializing with colleagues and clients. Changes in vour relationship will be to your advantage. Don't hold back when it comes to commitment. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take the time to invest in yourself. Make the ph)·sical and mental changes re­quired in order to raise your self­esteem. Success will follow if you're happy with yourself. 00000 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Th, \\'ill not be the dav to lose your w,, with lo,·ed ones. Family member may take advantage oi you. This,,·,: result in vour feeling depn~ssed an, used. Don't offer help or ask for i: 
00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You ca, make lasting friendships toda, .. Attend social events that intere;· you, and romantic opportunitie· will follow. Travel, lectures a11t social gatherings will heighten \'Ou· popularity 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Ym. will get taken if you become in volved in joint financial ventures You must be careful in choosing th, people you deal with and lenc1 things to. Problems with female col leagues are apparent. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec 21): Evading issues will not save yo,, from disruptions on the home front Lay your cards on the table if you wish to salvage anything. Don't tah chances that may lead to losses 
000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
You may have a secret enemy. Be careful what you say to whom. Be precise in your talks, or you will b, misinterpreted. Problems with supe­riors or authority figures will surface 
00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): It is best to discuss all your options with someone you trust before you sign any contracts or agreements You must take a look at the motive, of others. Read between the lines 
0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Deai with red-tape issues today. Handle them as quickly as possible, and tn not to damage your reputation in the interim. This is a favorable day fo:· doing things with children. 00 
Puule by Nancy Salomon 
34 They're a laugh a minute 36 Cook, as clams 36 Major nuisances 39 Writer Stanley Gardner 40 Cleaning cabinet supplies 42 Brand-new 43 The low-down 46 Out of reach of 50 Tattled 52 Nancy Drew's creator Carolyn 53 Time waster 
54 56  Actress Taylor of ''The Nanny'' Opa-_, Fla.  s2 64  Predicament Chemist's workplace  
57 59  Terrible time? Turtledove  65  Wagering locale, for short  
&1  Christian Andersen  ss  Myrna of "The Thin Man"  

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
Birthday Baby: You are a deep thinker, concerned about doing what's right. Your kind approach to those you encounter will result in formulating good and lasting friendships throughout your life. 
(l\'eed advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com. eugeniaiast.com, astromate.com.) 
-2000 Cniversal Press Syndicate 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
.. Name -----------------------------­
Address City _______ State ___Zip_____ 
______________"_"_  
PORTS  Win by a yard The St. Louis Rams won its first Superbowl Sunday by holding the Tennessee Titans I-yard shot of the end zone.  
page 22  
page 28  OTHE BSERVER  Monday, January 31, 2000  
MEN'S BASKETBALL  

Dillon, Murphy slam dunk No. 23 Saint John's 
By BRJAN KESSLER 
Spores EJi,or 
First-year head coach Matt Doherty made some key calls in Notre Dame's 73-60 victory over No. 23 St. John's on Saturdav. He also made a Notre Dame 67 big call after 
St. John's 60 
the game. 
As the clock expired. Doherty headed to center court with his team and waved the studenls onto the floor to celebrate Notre Dame·s first big honrn victory of the season. 
"I felt a little corny waving them out," Doherty said. "I saw [North] Carolina beat Marvland and their students stormed the court, so I wanted ours to storm the court when we beat St. John's because they were a large part of this win. They are a big, big part of this program and we could not have won this game with­out them." 
The Irish also couldn't have won the· game without an All­American performance by sophomore forward Troy Murphy. The 6-foot-11 Murphy scored 30 points and grabbed 18 rebounds while playing all 40 minutes against a team without a player over 6-foot-8. 
The unsung hero of the 
game, however, was Jimmy Dillon. The senior point guard scored nine points, dished out five assists and was responsi­ble for the most importanl play of the game. 
After the Irish had squan­dered an eight point lead with just over two minutes remain­ing, the 6-foot-2 Dillon stoic the ball from Erick Barklfly, dribbled down the court. drew the foul and slammed it home. 
''.Jimmv [Dillon! went a little sl1ow-tfme on us with the <lunk," Doherty said. "That was a big steal. Wf' wflre sit­ting back in a zone at their mercy a little bit. Jimmy's a gutsy kid. That's why he played the whole second half. Ile looked at me al'ter that dunk because I told him if he dunked it, it better go through the hoop. I don't want ariy to come back through." 
"Jimmy is a great guy with a tremendous heart," Murphy said. "He's gnt some nerve though. He's always telling me he's going to tune somebody up. but he's had many break­aways in practice and games and has always laid it up. He surprised me with a dunk. It was a big play and really got the crowd into it." 
Dillon made the ensuing free throw and the three-point play keyed a 17-2 run that 
see MEN/page 23 

JOHN DAILY ffhe Observer 
Senior point guard Jimmy Dillon picks St. John's point guard Erick Barkley's pocket in Saturday's 73-60 Irish victory. Dillon turned the steal into a three-point play for the Irish 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish roll to easy win over Hoyas 
By TIM CASEY Sports Writer 
Muffet McGraw sat at the press conference with point guard Niele Ivey to her right answering questions from the 
sparse media rep­resent a ­tion after 
.. N t e
o r Dame's 87-56 vic­tory over Georg­

etown on McGraw 
Saturday 
night. 
Her team had just won its 13th straight game, but the Irish head coach was not ready to boast. 
"We don't really talk about the winning streak because we know it doesn't really mat­ter," McGraw said. "We· try to take it one game at a time. I 
• 
don't worry about it with this team. They're focused -they don't look ahead." 
"If' we were undefeated al this point, I'd be really Notre Dame 87 
h a P P Y , " Georgetown 56 a d d e d McGraw. "Right now we're beating the teams we're supposed to beat." Saturday's victim was Georgetown. Behind 18 points and seven assists from point guard Ivey, the Irish (17-2, 8-0) coasted to a 31-point victory over the Iloyas (11-8, 5<~ Big East) at the Joyce Center. The victory represented the largest win­ning margin for the Irish all season. Dani1c'lle Green added 14 points for the victors, while center Ruth Hiley had 12 points and four blocked shots despite sitting out most of the second half 
Nolre Dame raced out to a 20-7 lead with 13 minutes, 32 seconds remaining in the first half and never looked back. A lay-up by freshman forward Amanda Barksdale with 6:46 remaining in the game gave the Irish a" 40-point lead at 79­39, their biggest or the game. The I-loyas' Katie Smrcka­Duffy scored nine points in the final 6 minutes to cut into the Irish lead. 
The fifth-ranked Irish shot 
63.3 percent from the field for the game; the Hoyas shot just 26. 9 percent. 
Smrcka-Duffv led Georgetown with 2:~ points on six of 14 shooting, including four for seven from three­point range. The junior guard also had a school-record 10 steals. Georgetown, which had won four straight games prior to Saturday's loss, also com­mitted 30 ·1urnovPrs !'or the 
sec WOMEN/page 25 
MEN'S FENCING 
Notre Drune defeats archrival Penn State 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Associate Spons Editor 
For years the Nittany Lions have been kings of the colle­giate fencing world. Saturday, the men's fencing team sent them back to Happy Valley with their tails tucked between their legs after a 16-13 loss to the Irish. 
"lt was very big," sabre captain Clay Morton said. "It felt very good to defeat them in sabre and it felt really good to defeat them overall. It's been awhile since we beat them overall." 
The win broke a four­match losing streak against Penn State. The Irish last defeated the Nittany Lions in the '80s when they won three straight. 
The win. however, was not unexpected according to Irish head coach Yves Auriol. 
"I was expecting the men's team to win," he said. "They did a good job. We have a very talented team and we have the talent to do it." 
While Penn State remains the team to beat at this March's NCAA champi­onships, Notre Dame served notice that it was a strong contender to break Penn State's !'our-year grip on the title. 
"They fenced us very tough and there is a long way to go before NCAAs," foil captain Jim Harris said. "It is going to be very close come March between us, Penn State, Stanford and St. .John's. The title is really up for grabs. It 
see FENCING/page 26 
··1 Men's Tennis at Kalamazoo ar Ohio State
ftj s 
'•t=::;:::tt Michigan Sme Tuesday, 7:30 p.m. -~ Friday, 7:05 p.m. Tuesday, 3:15 p.m. 
SPORTS 
., FencingATA at Providence West Virginia at Northwestern 
Tuesday, 7:00 p.m. Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. Saturday, all day
GLANCE 





