
Play 
Finding an identity 
Miss Moby's latest album. Play, when itflrsl 
With Saint Mary's preparing t.o celebrate ils 

Tuesday
ca.me out? Scene ·s review may just renew your 
third Pride Day. The Observer looks al lhe 
interest. 
College's relationship with Notre Dame. 
SEPTEMBER 19,
Scene . page 13 
In Focus 
2000 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Daine and Saint Mary's 
FAUCLTY ASSEMBLY 
Faculty want voice in mi~ion statement change 
said Patty SayrP, profpssor of  Although many of' the faculty  evPrybody, I don't know how  
ByMOLLYMcVOY  philosophy and a mP.mbcr, of the  attended the meetings, Sayre  that is happening."  
S.,inr M,",.-, Ediror  faculty assembly. "To r.hange  s1tid it w11s not r.lc1tr that thfl  The proposed statement is  
something lucid ,1nd clear to  meetings wcro called in order to  shorter than the College's pre­ 
Ttw  Sainl  Marv's  fac:ultv  sonwthing not  write a  new  sent statement.  According to  
asscmbl~· ra!lcd a spcciul 1mwt­ing f'or Lhis WPdnesday Lo dis­nrss I.ht' proposPd rhang<'s in lh<' Collr•gn's mission statement. ".'\n, you Pvcr going to havn I00 pPrt'Pnt 11f thn pPoplP happy? 01' rnursP not," said Joff BrP<'S(e. rhair or thP-facultv assPmblv. "I would likP-. bowPv"­er. that ~:Vl~rvonr reels that tl1Pv haw bteen h1{ard." · Tlw mcwting arosn brcaus(i of concrrns ('XprPssrd by sonw members of lhP faculty during last Wednnsday's merting. At  ludd and statemPnt. unclear is n "To change something "One prnb­mistakt>." ludd and clear to lt1m is the :\ committf'P. role the fac­something not lucid andol' one sLUdcnt. ulty had in two faculty unclear is a mistake." this," she UH\ m be rs and said. "Manv srveral mem­of us werePatty Sayre bPrs of the aware andphilosophy professor andadministration participating workrd on a member of faculty assembly in discus­1ww mission sions spon­statenwnt for sored by the sewral vears. Om, of the main division or mission. Many of us concern~ of the faculty assembly were unaware that this was part  Sr.hultz, the College requested a briefer statement after the College ·s accreditation process. Schuitz believes the new state­ment slill explains the purpose of the present statement, but in a briefer form. "We have not changed our mission," Schultz said. "Our pur­pose still is to Aducate students to become women with skills and wisdom to lead and to act. It's not really destroying any­thing, it's just trying to get a briefer statement. Every depart­ 
thn nweting. thr faculty was prn­SPntPd with a proposed draft of tlw l:ollP.gc·s nr.w mission state­ was that they felt excluded from the process that produced 'v\'ednesday's draft.  of a project to draft a new mis­sion statement." Sr. Roseanne Schultz, chair of  ment has to look at it and see how their goals and objectives fit in that."  
ment. Several facultv members  ·'There were people that spoke  the committee responsible for  Sayre explained that the short  
expn'ssed their concerns about  at  [the I facultv  assemblv."  v-Titing the statement, said every  length of the new statement is  
thr draft and about the process  Breese said. "They were con­ effort was made to provide the  an additional problem some of  
by which the draft was written.  cerned about the process."  faculty with an opportunity to  the facultv members have with  
acrnrding to BrPese.  Open sessions were held last  express their opinions.  the draft.  ·  
··11 serms we haw a lucid and  Spring to discuss the College's  "Everybody had  a  voice."  "Because it is very short, it has  
rlr.ar mission statPment now."  mission  and  core  values.  Schultz, said. "If this is news to  little content," Sayre said.  




ACE program example for others 
• Department of and 22 more dioceses will receive teachers who have

Education grants 
been prepared according to program $500,000 the ACE model. 
"We were really looking to By KATE NAGENGAST expand because we have so Assisranr News Edior many requests from dioceses all over the country that we couldn't possibly fulfill." said
.'\s the largest teaching Johnstone. "We made a
through service program in commitment that we didn'tthe countrv. Notre Dame's 
want ACE to get much big­
Alliance · for Catholic 
ger than a total enrollmentEducation (ACE) will serve of 160 because we r.an't be 
as a role model for a series 
true to our 'community pil­of developing programs. 
lar' if we exceed that.
Notre Dame's Institute for "So it was really a ques­
Educational Initiatives 
tion of bow do we help thereceived three grants to help 
church by fulfilling needsother universities and col­other than those in the dio­
lP.ges nationwide d1welop 
ceses that we serve and theteacher education programs 
answer was that we'll help
like ACE. 
other universities do the
"We asked that [earh of 
same thing," she said.
the partnering programs! 
Tony DeSapio, a Notre
maintain the three pillars of 
Dame graduate and a sec­
ACE: professional teaching. 
ond yPar ACE student in
community and spirituality." 
Memphis, Tenn., said.
said Joyce Johnstone. direc­
"We're at the point wheretor of ACE educational out­
we've shown everyone it's arnach. 
great program but we can
Founded in 1994, ACE pro­only serve so many. It's timevides understaffed parochial to model the process."
schools with recent rollege The first grant of $500,000graduates committed to two 
from the Department of 
years of servicP as tearhers 
Education will develop pro­
while they work Lo complete 
grams similar to ACE at 
an intirnsivc master's degree 
Providence College, Loyolain an education program. 
Marymount University.
ACE serves schools in 13 
Valparaiso University and
statC's and 25 dioceSflS. As a result of tlrnsc Lhrec grants, s<:hools in 11 morR statPs see ACE/page 6 

HTTP://0BS E RYER.ND.EDU 
SMC frosh 


vote in 
•

pr1Illary 
. "Meet the Candidates" forum set for tonight 

By NICOLE CLERY 
News Writer 
The results are finally in. yield­ing a tie between both pairs run­ning for presidential and vice presidential positions in the Saint Mary's freshman class elections. Out of the six tickets listed on Monday's ballot. presi­dential candidate Abby Van Vlerah and vice-presidential candidate Megan Olive as well as Zoe Zelanzy and Madonna Weck came out on top. Both tickets received 19 percent of the vote, mandating a run-off election Wednesday. 
In the end. 44 percent of the Class of 2004 turned in ballots. which according to elections commissioner. Stephanie Pace, "is an excellent turn-out." 
Prior to the run-off. the candi­dates will come together for a "Meet the Candidates" forum to answer questions and discuss their respective platforms 7 p.m. tonight at Haggar Parlor. 
With the slogan. "Keepin' it Real!" Van Vlerah and Olive promise class events and a forum for the Class of 2004 to share their ideas. Van V\erah said she is looking forward to the forum. 
"[I am] so excited I couldn't helieve it. but now I'm nervous for [the final election on] Wednesday and 'Meet The Candidates' on Tuesdav." Van Vlerah said. · 
Zelanzy and Weck plan to organize a myriad of activities ranging from a freshman field day to class masses. Neither Zelanzy, nor Weck, was avail­able for commimt at press time. 
"Meet The Candidates" is mak­ing its debut during these 2000 elections and student body presi­dent. Crissie Renner. is hoping it will be a sur,cess. She and her election staff are "trying to open another door" to the freshman elections. In the past, candidates were elected based on their plat­forms. "Meet The Candidates" will allow the Cla5s of 2004 the chance to talk with the women who want to be in charge. 
In other election news, seven of the 13 available spots for the freshman class board were filled. The board now includes: Jillian Bernas. Becca Doll. Erika Kozlowski, Sara Mahoney, Jenny McGraw, Sarah McSherrv and Lizzie Siefert. The n~maining positions will be filled once a president and vice president am elected. 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, September 19, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 



'Yeah, I bit it' 
My best friend and I have a theory: every­one takes their turn falling down or tripping in public. It's okay to laugh when it happens to someone else because it won't be long before it's vour turn. 
This yea; I've seen quite a few stumbles, and each time I laugh with a sigh of relief' that it's not me. Mavbe I should be worried all "these falls are building up and it won't be long until I have a big one. 
But trust me, I bit it so 

bad last summer that I 

Laura Rompf

have immunity for years to come. Imagine this: The Taste 
Assistant

of Chicago Festival. over a 
News Editor 

million people, 95 degrees, 
100 percent humidity. 
I had made the journey 

from Kentucky and was ready to live it up in 
Chi-town with my rnommate. We drove into 
the city and spent the day among the millions 
enjoying the festivities. 
Because it was the Fourth of July weekend, the city had a huge firework show planned to finish the festival. We found prime seats and sat down to watch. 
Apparently in the big cily you have to take off sprinting when the finale starts, to get to your car first, so you're not stuck in traffic for hours. 
And that's just what we did. When the fire­works were concluding. my roommate yelled, "Let's go!" We all took off, running full speed ahead. dodging in and out between the crowd. 
There I was running, fitting in perfectly with the Chicagoans, when all of a sudden I was horizontal in the air. SPLAT! 
Okay, so you're thinking, it's not that bad. I should have just gotten up, played it olT and walked away. But you see, I wasn't just laying on the nice, soft, green grass. 
The reason I fell? The area was quite slick. From what? Sewer water. That's right, 10 feet away were about 20 port-i-poties and there I lay in a puddle of sewer water. 
While I should have jumped up right away, I was in shock. I laid there as several little kids pointed and laughed. "Gross! Look at her," they said as they giggled aloud. Slowly I stood up and looked at my back. 
/\lthough I had a yellow tank top on, it was now brown -along with my arms, butt and legs. 
I went to a nearby ambulance for a towel to try and remove the stuff from my backside. However. the stench remained. It remained during the walk to the car. It remained as we sat in traffic. And it remained for the entire­hour-and-a-half drive home. 
So you see. although I've seen a girl trip over a bike in front of DeBartolo, a guy on crulr.hes fall near the library and a girl on one Clf those scooters fall beside La.Fortune, I am not worried that my turn is coming soon. 
So many people laughed when I bit it last summer. that I may never have to fall again. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
M,mrcen Smithe Sam Dcrheim-:r Kiflin Turner Chris Scon HdenJ. R.1yJm Graphics 
Sports Dana Mangnuson Hmn Kessler Lab Tech Vtewpoint Shannon Bennl'tt 
Kurr HogaarJ 

The Oh.«rvcr (\ I~!'., ,')') 2-4000) is published Mond.,y rhro11~l, Frid.,y c:J1;l'.<'Jll llllrm~ CX,llll .md V,ll.J.llon pcrtnds. The Olucrvcr i~ ,l member of du· Assuci,,re;.I l're,i. AH rcproducwrn ro~lus .ire re,erved. 
QUOTES OF TH_E WEEK 
UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA 
Student death alters research 


PHILADELPHIA 

The effects of the death of 18-year-old Jesse Gelsinger. who died while participating in a study at the University of Pennsylvania's Institute for Human Gene Therapy ()HGT} -the first reported fatality in the research field -are clearly evident. Despite the advances that came this summer with the mapping of the human genome, the tragedy at UPenn slowed a huge portion of the country's genetic research. The 
U.S. Food and Drug Administration and the National Institutes of Health (NIH} announced in March two initiatives to protect patients. The first program is the FDA's Gene Therapy Clinical Monitoring Plan, requir­ing that sponsors of gene therapy trials routinely sub­mit third-party monitoring plans to the FDA and also be subjected to routine surveillance and inspection. Second is the Gene Transfer Safety Symposia in which the NIH and the FDA will establish quarterly forums for the sharing and analysis of medical and scientific data from gene transfer research. 
"The Court forbids the "Music is the "He was a great "It's a beaut{ful ripple people to affirm in universal language." believer in Notre effect going on, and their public capacity Dame -in the you are that stone that God is the source Kenneth Dye family." that was thrown into Notre Dame's band director
ofinalienable rights." the water. " 
Daniel "Rudy" Ruettlger Charles Rice Notre Dame graduate on the Kathleen Andrews, Notre Dame law professor death of Father Leonard founder of the Andrews on the issue of abortion Kuberski scholarship on the Impact of the Summer Service Project program 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Harvard group questions integrity of rape stats 
CAMBRIDGE. Mass. encourage victims to report incidents 
For Harvard University and other 
of rape. universities, the question of reporting In 1999, there were two formally and recognizing rape, and ultimately reported on-campus sex offenses, prevenling il, remains volatile. three formally reported public sex 
·'How do we respond if no one's offenses and nine confidentially coming to us?" said Karen Avery, reported cases at Harvard. In 1998 assistant dean of Harvard. there were 11 formally and five confi­
Federal legislation, passed in 1990, dentially reported sex offenses, and in now forces colleges to carefully collect 1997 there were only three formally data on rape from senior tutors and and no confidentially reported sex sexual assault/sexual harassment offenses. advisers. Massachusetts state law requires 
Student groups at Harvard like the that professional care providers Coalition Against Sexual Violence report their rapes, emotions are not report rape incidents they treat to the (CASV) argue the numbers do not recorded in the federal tally, as state Commissioner of Public Safety reflect the real level of rape on cam­Harvard balances its federal duty with and the local police. pus and advocate building a women's a respect for the rights and privacy of But, this report never includes the center to encourage victims to feel rape victims. name. address or other identifying safe enough to tell their stories. CASV members say they feel that information. It does, however. include 
While victims are encouraged to Harvard does not do enough to the general location of the attack. 
LUTHER COLLEGE 
Underage drinkers face new risks 
DECORAN, Iowa 
Starting this fall, underage drinkers will have to exer­cise caution following Luther College's implementation of an Iowa code which deals with underage drinking on campus. An underage person is considered guilty of con­structive possession by failing to remove themselves from a situation involving alcohol and by failing to ask for the disposal of alcohol. First offenses warrant a misde­meanor penalty of $100 while second offenses or higher can include a $200 fine and possible license revocation. In a memo to the college further explaining the code, Winneshiek County Attorney Andrew Van Der Maaten said, "This code section with respect to providing alcohol to minors pertains to persons who are not either licensees or permittees. Students, campus organizations and others who do not hold a license or permit to sell alcohol would be subject to the provisions of Iowa [law) if they provide alcohol to minors." According to the Iowa Code, supplying alcohol to a minor is considered a seri­ous misdemeanor which warrants a $500 fine. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day Saith Bmd FOJ:eeaS: 
A:n.WB.thar tara:Bst far dayt.irre cm::li.tims arrlhigh tarperatures 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Sept. 19. 
H L 

Tuesday ~ 80 62 Wednesday ~ 69 53 Thursday ~ 60 44
' ' " ... 
', 

FRONTS:

Friday Q 62 48 
.........
~ 
... ' ' ... ' 

c 2000 AccuWearher, Jnc. COLO WARM STArlONARY 
-----­
PtoHUre, 

® © D D D D D D

Saturday ~ 61 46 
High low Shower, Rain T••torms Flurrl•H Snow Ice Sunny Pt Cloudy Claudy 
V,-Assoa,e/90 p,..H 

Atlanta 82 65 Houston 89 68 Philadelphia 78 62 Baltimore 77 60 Las Vegas 97 71 Portland 77 58 Boston 78 60 Memphis 87 63 Sacramento 97 61
Q.9.~4.QQ.~u 
Cnicago 82 61 Milwaukee 75 57 SI. LOUIS 83 62
Showers T-srorms Rain FJ~r;,es S~;~ Ice Sunny Pf. Cloudy Cloudy 
Cleveland 82 63 New York 74 64 Tampa 88 74
Via Associaled Press QraµhicsNar 
---------------------------------------------------------------. 
Tuesday, September 19, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 





Saint Mary's denies students access to Napster service 
By KELLY HAGER 
News 'l(',irer 
Access Denied. These two words have faused much frus­tration to the Saint Mary's stu­denl body during Lhe past few days. Since last Friday. Napster users could no longer gain access Lo their accounts. 
Then the word circulating 
New Yorks 
longest running comedy revue 
became of11cial -Napster has been offkially banned at Saint Mary's. 
Napster. an Internet down­loading/sharing servi<:e, has been in the news recentlv fac­ing many court rulings. in the most rer,ent proceedings. the 
U.S. Federal Courts issued a number nf significant rulings against the free distribution via the Internet of copyrighted 
Saturday 
Sept. 30, 2000 8 pm O'Laughlin Auditorium 
.........,,coll•t•o
/"8-fttlR.
~HOTRI'DAMI', IN 
materials contained in MP3 subsequently blocked Napster files. access. 
This nationwide ruling. if By taking this action, Saint final, will shut down Napstcr Mary's joins a large and grow­and similar ing number of services institutions 
permanent­ly. However, rulings from  "I encourage students to really think about what  that have banned the site out of  
these previ­ous court pro<:eed­·ingswcre  they are doing as they download an artist's copyrighted material  respect for intellectual property and copyright  
not the sin­gle causH of the ban at S a i n t  without permission. It ·s not just morally questionable - infringements. While obvi­ous . legal issues were  
Mary's. According  it's illegal."  considered in the ruling,  
to .the College's ot'fice of  Joel Cooper director of infonnation  there were also computer s v s t e m  
,Information 'Technology,  technology  restraints that took top prior- 
it  was  a  ity in resolv­ 
matter  of  ing the issue.  
moral oblig- Constant  

ation. Napstcr use by on-campus res­
··we are in no way a pioneer­idents made off-campus access ing campus by making this rul­to the Saint Mary's Web-site ing," said Joel Cooper. dire<:tor very diflicult. of Jnformation TPchnology at Consequently, as the number Saint Mary's. "Many other col­of students at the Cnllego and leges have dealt and resolved people using the network rises. 
lthe issue )n the s~me manner." thP issue could have gotten out , Accordrng to Cooper. some of hand. The lack of off-cam­icollcgcs who have failed to pus accessibility has lead to address this problem have more than just student difficul­ended up in legal disputes. ties. Faculty were also experi­
In past months. the encing difficulties while updat­Recording Industry Association ing course information links of America (RIAA) has made it off-campus. a point to visit numerous uni­"Using more than one's fair versity c·ampuses who have share of network resources violates our acceptable use policy. so this step is being taken to help ensure equitable availab-ility of network resources," said Cooper. 

The policy, which students are encouragfld to read and must accept before accessing HesNct, does not go into detail surrounding MP3 usage, but has many policies which can be applied to downloading copyrighted material from Internet sources. 
When Napstflr first appeared last fall, the off-campus con­nection tended to be busier in the evening and not during the day, according to Cooper who has been watching the situa­tion since last year. 
"With the return of students several weeks ago, our off­campus connection has been saturated for _much of the day," said Coper. "This satura­tion prevents effoctivfl use of the Internet for purposes of teaching and learning -activ­ities that are primarily in keeping with the mission of the institution." 
Cooper hopes the ban will make students more aware of the legal issues regarding MP3's and sharing of down­loaded filfls. 
"I encourage students to really think about what they are doing as they download an artist's copyrighted material without permission," said Cooper. "It's not just morally questionable -it's illegal." 
FOR TICKET INFOR!MAilON CONTACT THE SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE flOlC OFFICE AT 
284-4626 

Undergraduates as Management Consultants 
Presentation for Undergraduates, all majors welcome. to be held 
Thursday, September 21, 2000 6:00-8:00 pm La.Fortune Student Center Sorin and Dooley Rooms 
Casual attire Food and drink will be served 
For more information please contact Colleen Grember colleen_grember@ mckinsey_com 

page 4 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September 19, 2000 
This Week in Campus Ministry 
Tuesday. September 19, 7:00 p.m. 
Badin Hall Chapel 

Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday. September 19, 7:00 p.m. 
Siegfried Hall Chapel 

Confirmation-Session #1 
Wednesday. September 20. l0:00 p.m. Morrissey Chapel ~ NEW LOCATIONlll Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Friday-Saturday, September 22-23 
Sacerd Heart Parish Center (St. Joe Hall) 

Freshmen Retreat #30 
Saturday. September 23. 1:30 p.m. 
Notre Dame Room, Lafortune 
Asian Culture and the Biblical World 
Dr. Seung Ai Yang, Biblical Scholar 
University of St. Thomas 

Saturday-Sunday, September 23-24 
Oakwood Inn 



Asian American Student Retreat 
Sunday. September 24. 1:30 p.rn. 
Keenan-Stanford Chapel 

Spanish Mass Presider: Rev. Felipe Morel, csc 
Monday-Friday, September 25-29 
103 Hesburgh Library 


Sign-up, Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #63 (Nov. 3-5, 2000) 
September 25-0ctober 30 
103 Hesburgh Library 

Sign-up, Freshmen Retreat #31 (Nov. 3-4, 2000) 
Targeted Dorms: Alumni, Breen-Phillips, Keough, Howard, Dillon, Lyons, McGlinn, Pasqueriila West, Sorin 
Monday. September 25. 6:00 p.m. Lafortune Ballroom 

Emmaus Kick-Off 




Hfricentric Spirituality: 
Hn Hwesome notre Dame Experience 
mne of the first theology lessons introduced to many African American first-year students at Notre Dame takes place at Fatima Retreat Center on the Friday evening of the first week ofclasses. After the traditional ice breakers and informal introductions, "Our History and the Garden of Eden" is one of the first talks presented at "The Plunge," an overnight retreat experience offered to freshmen ofAfrican descent. We begin here because students who attend the retreat gather to see themselves and each other in the image and likeness of God as members of a broader community with a history and purpose to be realized at the University of Notre Dame. "The Plunge" is just one component of Africenrric Spirituality, the Campus Ministry-Cross Cultural Ministry program created in 1996 to contribute to the spiritual, social and educational experience ofstudents ofAf­rican descent. As the name suggests, the program helps to welcome into our midst an 

classmate, athlete, staff, administrator,
Africentric image of God as seen in the ministry ofJesus leprechaun, leader and friend, makes for a 
Christ, through the witness of our saints and ancestors, spiritually-cohes/ue llotre Dame famity. and in our daily interactions with peers, faculty and staff. Seeing Christ as professor, roommate, classmate, athlete, staff, admin­istrator, leprechaun, leader and friend, makes for a spiritually-cohesive Notre Dame family. 
The programs offered in Africentric Spirituality include: 
• the monthly Rejoice! Catholic Mass 
• Freshmen Intro (which includes "The Plunge") 
• Sankofa Scholars Honors Program 
• Rediscovering Christianity: A Bible Study in the Africentric Perspective 
• and many others 
As with other ethnic programs offered at Notre Dame, Africentric Spirituality is a program of inclusion. People from all cultural and ethnic backgrounds are invited to participate. Sharing our stories opens our hearts to the many faces and expressions of God. Africentric Spirituality is one such expression. All are welcome! 
For farther information, phone or e-mail Dawn Foster 'OJ, Stephen Steele '03, or Chandra Johnson, Assistant to the President, Assistant Director ofCross Cultural Ministry. 

GJ Great Idea Asian Culture and th 
An insightful lecture by Dr. Seung Ai Yang, Biblical Schol University of St. Thomas 
-All are Welcome 

~ Big News 
ln1erfai1h Chris1ian Niah1 Prayer has 

New Location: Morrissey Chapel Same Awesome Prayer Same Awesome Music 

Ewery Wednesday @ I O p.m.


lnte~
~i\OOlilll 
MORRISSEY Hall Chapel 
m:rJ.h1: 
Uli{'Yer ALL ARE WELCOME 
II] RCIA Info 
IT'S NOT TOO LATE 
Want to explore becoming Catholic? Join us. 

First RCIA Session 
Sunday, September 2 4 10-11:30a.m. Lafortune's Notre Dame Room ALL ARE WELCOME • Contact Tami Schmitz @ 631-3016 
112 Badin Hall 631-5242 
103 Hesburgh library 631-7800 
email ministry.1@nd.edu web www.nd.edu/~ ministry 
March 2001 Coleman-Morse Center 






ATION 
Tuesday, September 19, 2000 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Haitians protest legislature: 
Thousands or protostPrs marclwd in central I laiti 011 Monday to demand the rnsignation of a legislature controlled by tlrn Lavalas Family Party or l'ormPr Prnsident .lean-BPrtrand J\ristidl'. Hadio stations reported that about :i.000 pl•opk rnardwd. which would bP tlw biggPst prolrst sine<' rec:Pnt PIPctions. 

Canada's foreign minister resigns: 
Canadian ForPign Affairs Minister Lloyd Axworthy an11ou1H'Pd Monday that hP will leave politics. saying hP would step asidP as his nation's rnprnscntativP to the world as soon as tlw govPrnnwnt chooses a replac.oment. Tlw f'ornrnr prof'Pssor has workPd to ban land minrs. rnrnuraged pracekecping missions. sup­ported drvnlopnwnt aid to poorn countries and PmphasizPd 1wgot.iation ovPr force. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Colorado firefighters tame blaze: 
Fir<'f1ghtcrs took advantage of cooler. cloudy Wl'a!hrr to try to build !inns around an out-of­rontrol wildfirp thrnatnning as many as 200 homes in tlw mountains outsidP Boulder. The blaze. whir.h jumped from treetop to trer.top on Sunday. smolden'd dosn to thP ground Monday. Four air tankers and thrre heli­('.Optnrs clropp0d firr. rPtardant and water on hot spots. 
Congress to discuss Cuba trade: 
With momentum growing in Congress to ease th(\ Cuba Pmbargo. advocatrs on both sidr.s will makr tlwir casrs Tursday in one of the biggPst official dcba1rs on tlH' 38-yt'ar-old san('tions. Tlw planned hnaring is parl or an lntPrnational Tradr Commission study that somP Cuba experts describr as the most com­prr.lwnsiw effort by a fodrral agency to deter­mi 11 e how the embargo has afl'ectP.d th0, Cuban and U.S. economies. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 


Officals predict vaccine delay: 
Indiana rnsidents accustomed to getting flu shots in Octobi'r will have to wait at least another month due to delays in production of the vaccine. a state health official said Monday. The Indiana State Department of Health is still waiting for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to announce how much flu vaccine will be available this fall. said spokeswoman Margaret Joseph. "ThP COC said tlrny don't know any more than they did two months ago," Jo.seph said Monday. 
Market Watch 9/18 

Dow 
10,808.52 -118.48 

]ONES 
CompositeUp: Same: Volume:1.086 480 1,268,489,984 

AMEX: %0.7R -11.08 Nasdaq: 3726.52 -108.71 NYSE: 659.78 '-9i64 
S&P 500: 1465.81 -15.06 
• 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -4.29 -2,69 ()0.06 INHI.CORI' (INTC) -2.97 1.7 55.81 (iliALCO:..tM INC (QCClM) , 5 . .17 d.56 C>?.81 ORACLE CORI' (ORCL) ~2..i, -1.84 7C,A7 MIC :I<OSOFT CORI' (MSFT) -l.8'i -J.18 6.rno 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSEHVER WIHE SERVICES 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
A transit strike forced nearly half a million Southern California r.om­m u ters to scrounge for rides or get behind the wheel themselves Monday at the start of the work week. worsening traf'lic on already clogged strects and freeways. 
Some commuters showed up at bus stops and waited in vain as tem­perat ures rose into the 90s. 
"I just don't know what else to do. I called my friend, but I don't see him ... Cesar Marroquin, 
34. said as he waited for a ride to East Los Angelr.s Occupational School. where he was scheduled to take a test. 

Some 4.300 members of the United Transportation Union went on strike over wages and overtime Saturday, halting 2,000 buses and rail and subway lines serving a 1,400­squarc-mile area. An esti­mated 450,000 peoplc in the car-dependent region depend on the transit sys­tem. 
No new talks were scheduled, but Metropolitan Transportation Authority spokesman Rick Jager said transit system negotiators and a state mediator were ready to bargain. Union spokesman Goldy Norton said union representatives were waiting for an invita­tion from the mediator. 
Freeway traffic rose 
about 5 percent during the morning commute, the California Highway Patrol reported. The CHP said a lack of major crashes helped highway'i absorb the additional traffic. 
"It is a substantial amount, but it didn't result in a major headache like we thought," CHP Officer I3ill Preciado said. 
It was a different story on city streets, where cars snaked bumper-to-bumper through downtown and workers complained that commuting times had been doubled. 
Bus driver Lisa Smith picketed on a Pasadena Freeway overpass. 
"These people should be on the buses," said Smith. pointing to the freeway traffic mess below. 
page 5 

"People who rely on buses need buses. We do care about the people. This is as stressful a time for us as it is for our passen­gers." 
MetroLink commuter trains. which aren't part of the strike, arrived on schedule at the downtown Union Station. 
Once there, commuters waited for others to pick them up or scattered on foot and bicycles, which they had carried on the trains. 
"It's affecting my boss more than me. He's stuck in traffic, and I just have to sit out here and wait until he gets me," said MetroLink commuter Tim Herrera. 31. of Fontana, who works at Paramount studios in Hollywood. 
Army reports beatings in Kosovo 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Army paratroopers abused and beat civilians in Kosovo after their training for a pear.ekecping mission failed to tone down their "combat mentality," according to an Army inv()stigative report that also blamed the soldiers· r.ommanders for ignoring signs of trouble in the unit. 
The commander of the soldiers' battalion, Lt. Col. Michael D. Ellerbe. was faulted for pursuing a task ~ to "identify and neutralize" 

Albanian splinter groups -beyond the scope of the peacekeepers' mis­sion. the report said. 
That created a situation whir.h invited soldiers to "step over the !inn of acceptable conduct," the report conr.luded. 
Defense Secretary William Cohen issued a statement Monday. while traveling in Asia. that r.alled the incidents described in the report a matter of "grave concern." He endorsed Army Chief of Staff Gen. Eric Shinseki's decision to order a high-level review and to take "cor­rective ar.tions as appropriate." 
The investigation was ordered after Staff Sgt. Frank J. Ronghi -a membrr of A Company. 3rd Battalion, 504th Parachute Infantry 1~egiment of the 82nd Airborne Division -was accused of raping and murdering an 11-year-old Kosovo Albanian girl in Vitina last January. Honghi was convir.ted and sentenr.ed in August to life in prison. 
The investigative report recom­mended that commanders consider court-martialing an officer. Lt. John Serafini, also of A Company, 3rd Battalion. 504th I'arachute Infantry Regiment. 
page G The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September I9, 2000 
ACE 
continued from page l 
thn Univnrsity of Portland. 
The second grant of' $220.000 from tht> Malhile Familv Foundalion of Dayto1;, Ohio will fund pro­grams at the Univeristy of' Davton. Christian Brolhcri,; Un ivPrsitv. nnd a r.onsorti um of Baltin{orc colleges includ­ing Loyola Collngl'. Notre l>anw Coll<!g1' and Mt. Saint Mary's Collngt>. 
The third grnnt from thr. MC.I Foundalion of Morristown, NJ will nstablish a program at Sr• tn n I! a 11 Un ivnrsitv. 
All the ·schools 110\,\' implc­m1:nting programs were cho­iwn through a competitive proc'PSS. 
"\'\'11'!! dcv1!lop a taµosLry that really has a lot of differ­ent kinds of' threads in it so that lall the programs] will not b1~ exactly like ACE." said .Johnston P. "So nm may recruit olrlt•r studPnls, somP may dcf'ine rommunity dif'­frrnntly, sonH' may have a greater or a n1orn diverse spiritual rnmponm1t." 
Although Pach program will l'unrtion ind<1pcn<lcntly with its own dir<'ctor and administration. sonw ('()]lab­oration is cxµecLPd among the programs. Tlw directors plan to nrnct twice annually to discuss lhe program's clrwelopnwnt and lnarn frnm Pach otlwr. 
Studnnts intert'Slcd in such sPrviee opportunities will bf' r.ncouragncl to apply to mul­tip!I' programs for better ehanccs of' acrPplancc, said Johnston,•. 
"liss('lltially Pach one will carry it out on their own campus in line with the cul­tu re of' their institution," .lohnston1) said. 
"I think it is an excellent idea Ito expand the ACE pro­gram I. At any Catholic insti­tution whr.rn service is pro­moted a program like this is going to work," said Christina Caron, graduate of l'rovid(ince College and sec­ond year t\CE student in Kansas City, Kan. "lt will be different at other universi­tins. i)specially as there are gnographical changes. but I don"t think the core program should rhang1:." 
Please recycle The Observer. 

Gootblatt: Relationships take plenty of work 
selves. sweep the peoplA out should come easily, you
By BECKY REGALDO 

of your life who are killing shouldn't have lo work hard 
News Write, 
you -who are 
you, and get 
"VVho here is single and acquaintances looking-?," asked Ellen -they arA C.ootblatL. keynote speaker at dragging you the seminar entitled "DaLing, down." Mating, anrl lfolating." As a The rela­sea of bands raised into the tionship lec­air. Gootblatt replied: "Then ture was a you n!'e~. me desperately!" .. focus of 
!\s a guru of romance Gootblatt's 1 O Gootblatt travels around the points or a country sharing her words of good relation­wisdom to other college stu­ship. ThA pri­dents. mary empha­
Gootblait tackled complicat­sis Gootblatt ed issues sur.h as r.hanging a discussed friendship into a romanec. centered on how to deal with a partner's developing parents, and when is the right the self first. · 

unhealthy to at a relationship." rid of the According to Gootblatt, set­tling f'or 
t. h C "Do a house cleaning of mediocre 
yourselves. sweep the 
will not produce

people out ofyour l{{e 
satisfacto­who are killing you -ry results. 
who are unhealthy to 
Being hon­est with

you, and get rid ofthe 
youri-aM as 

aquaintances -they are wcl I as dragging you down." 
your part­
ner in 
keeping

Ellen Gootblatt 
lines of 
lecturer communi­cation is vital to a 

timo Lo enter into a sexual "Make yourself fabulous," relationship based on loyalty relationship. she said. and honesty. 
"H' he doesn't know where Maintaining a healthy rela­"He absolutely committed lo your grandmother was born, tionship should be as simple thA person," said Gootblatt. then it's too soon," she said and stress-free as possible, In addition. a relationship 
"Do a house cleaning uf your-Gootblatt said. "Relationships should be mu tually beneficial 
and enriching. If either mem­ber in the relationship is con­stantly defending, or making excusBs for the other partner, then the relationship is des­tined to fail. Gootblatt said. 
Viewing the rr.lationship and the partnnr roalistically is also imµortant in avoiding lhP creation of' distorted iclPals. The partnnr should "sci' your­self for who you arc, not lf'or] what they want to sen." 
The ultimate goal of a posi­tive rrlationship is attaining happinr.ss and self'-f'ulfillmrmt. said Gootblatt 
Gootblatt was born in Brooklyn. N. Y. She taught junior high for 22 y11ars in Ifarlem. and later went on lo have lrnr own radio evening show on ABC Talk Hadio, fea­turing guests sur,11 as frporge Carlin and Lucille Ball. She has written two books, and continues to tour the countrv and !er.turn. · 

Come leam more about GE's great opportunities for engineers at the 
Industry Day2000 Career Fair 
No other corporation can match the diversity ofoppor­tunities ofGE. Because we have small company attitudes with 
September 20th 
large company strengths, we set no limits, no boundaries. You 
10:00AM 4:00 PM 
can move from industry to industry, discipline to discipline, 
Joyce Center 
and never leave GE. We're a leader in every business we compete in, and 
GE will also be at the Business Career 
we're looking for leaders like Veronica who willtake us even 
Forum on 9/21 & 9/22.
further. Start your career by visiting our website now. 

GE Aircraft Engines• G[ Apl)li2nces • GE Capilal Services• GE Corporate Research and Deve.lopment • GE Industrial Systems GE Global eXchange Services• GE Lighting• GE Medical Systems• GE Piastres• GE Power Systems· GE Supply• GE Transportation Systems• NBC 
"2/21/00 

Tuesday, September 19, 2000 The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 page 7 
Bush stru.ggles for woIDen's vote as elections approach 
. Gore leads among women on all issues in latest poll 
Associated Pre5S 
WASIIINGTON 

Nursing assistant Laura Cahagan. independent voter, savs th!' main issues she's int1•rPstPd in arn !'ducation and lwalth 
rarP. "My b r u t h l' r was on McdicurP and was µaying $2:{0 a 
month f'or prPscrip­


lion drugs.'' Bush slH' says. 
Both politil'.al parties arc intPrPstnl in h<'r. The Nor\\alk. Ohio. woman is just tilt' kind ol' votPr both the l)pnwcra ts and BP publicans an' struggling to win ovllr in tlw 1101111• stniteh of the cam­paign 
1\l'l1:r the J)1•morratic con­Vl'lllion. Al Gore• reassertr.d his load oHr Hl•publican Geo!'ge 
W. 13ush among women, with a margin of 1 S points or morn in some polls, v,-hile making the rac11 close among men. 
So Bush set out this wef'k to show that his policies would h1>lp poople through ev11ry stage of life -a way of rem ind\ng votnrs, espec,i ally women. why many of lhem µn~l'crr,~ct him to (;om earlier this year. 
Can Bush p1)rsuade the 28­yoar-olcl Gahagan to support him? "I doubt it," she says. 
Docs tliut mean she will sup­port Gore'1 "J'II have to decide whether to vote for him." 
She'll be walching carefully tlrn rnst of the wav. 
In tho latest p 0oll from tho Pew Hesearch Center, (;ore leads among women on all ol' ltw issues that thoy (:onsidill" the most important: keeping Social Security and Medicare firiancially sound {Gore is up 52-'.B); health (:am (Cor" is up ti0-30) and education (Gorn. 44-381. Corn also has an advantagn on protecting and strnnglhcning American fami­li<~s, 44-~7 among women. 
Apµcaling to women voters is important hPcausc they turn 

out on Election Dav. Since 
I 980. wom1rn have bc,•n exccnding men in their rnte of voting by up to :-3 percentage points, and they also make up a bigger sham of the elec­torate, said Curtis Gans. direc­tor of the Committcr. for the Study of the American 
among women and men and tighten thr. rarn back up." 
If Bush demonstrates "com­petence on tho issues," people will support him because he is seen as the stronger leader. he said. 
But he's got his work cut out if he hopes to win the 

Elccloratc. In support of
"On the issues I'm most
1996. he women like
concerned about. Al Gore
said. women The!'csa 
made up 52 is where I want lo he ... Judge­percent of' Martin, a the voling Democrat 
Theresa Judge-Martin 
population. f r o m 
Bush noods democrat Patchogue, to increase N.Y. his support "On the among all voters, not just issues I'm most concerned women. said nonpanisan about, Al Gom is where I want political analyst Stuart to he," said Judge-Mal'tin, who Hothonbllrg. "His position has works pal't-time out of hel' dcterioratPd among all voting home. And she said she can groups. He's lost ground on understand why more women leadership, and they're even have wanned up to him since on charactPr." the convention. 
llepublican pollster Neil "l think it was the fact that Newhouse said it's unlikely he came out as a family man, Bush c·an catch Gore in sup­with his family and his wife," port among women. But he she said, "You could see how also said the stPps Bush is tak­m u c h tImy Io v e him , how ing to "case the gender gap much they're there to support will cause him to do better him. The mfldia always cast 
him as this robot, but there·s more to his character." 
This week, the Hush cam­paign is focused on how its proposals would affect an indi­vidual in each stage of life ­from birth to retirement. 
The effort began Monday with a visit to a hospital in Little Rock, Ark.. where Bush was promoting bis plan to double the child tax credit from the existing $500 to $1,000. He also planned to f'ocus this wefik on school safe­ty, higher education, protect­ing Social Security and health ca!'e. On Tuesday, Bush appears on ''The Oprah Winfrey Show" which has a largely female audience. 
Thoy'rn watching and listen­ing. 
Madlyn Ames. a 59-yeal'-old retired nu!'se and Democrat from Eric, Pa .. said she's extmmoly internsted in what the candidates say about Social Secmity and prescl'ip­tion drugs. 
"I want something to help with my money situation," she said. "I was waiting for the debates to sefl what they say on these issues." 

Check out The Observer classifieds on-linecat observer..nd..edu.·· 
Tuesday, September 19, 2000

page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Albright: Time for woman president 
Associated Press 
Nl:W YOHK 

Barrt'd bv the U.S. Constitution from becoming prnsidPnt because she was born abroad, Secretary of 
S t. a t P Madnll'illf' Albright s a i d Monday that f'or­nign-bo rn /\mPrirans should IHLVP 


the right to Albright Sl\ek the highPst office. And slw plPdgl'd to do every­thing slw can to lwlp a woman bcconrn president of the United States. But A I bright -th n first women to be U.S. secretary of stall\ and the highest-ranking fnmaln in the Clinton adminis­tration -dodged a question about whether she would have sought the presidency. had the 
U.S. Constitution allowed her to run. 
"l3ecause I never had to think about it, I never have," shr, said. "It's like tasking), would I be a pole vaulter today in Sydney. Australia''" 
Albright discussed women's leadership in the 21st century at a meeting co-sponsored by The White !louse Project. which is dedicated to having a qualified woman succes~fully run for the presidency within 
the next decade. The event made an enormous differ­was also co-sponsored by The ence." New York Times. Albright was born Marie 
"I believe Lhat there will b1\ a Korbelova in Prague in 1937. woman president snoner Her father was a Czech diplo­rather than later," Albright mat who took his family to said. "I think we all have to London as Germany took over work for that to happen their honrnland at the start of because Lhere are remarkable World War II and then moved women" in the U.S. Senate to Denver in 1948. and !louse of Hepresentatives. A former academic, foreign 
"This is a lack in our coun­policy adviser and U .N. try in ambassador, m a n y Albright said ways," sh1~ she never
"J believe that there will 

said. believed she
be a woman president

Mari c would be secre­Wilson. sooner rather than later." tary of state pnisident until the of' The moment
Madeline Albright 

w h i t e President 
secretary of state 

!louse Clinton asked 
Project and the M s Foundation for Women, said the project's polling shows that 76 percent of the American public would like to vote for a woman candidate for president. But research on focus groups shows that voters worry that women lack the experience and ability to con­duct foreign policy and address national defense issues. she said. 
"I hope I have helped in this," Albright said. "I truly do. I don't like being called a 'school marm· when I'm Lough because I think that when men are tough they're not called 'schoolmarms."' 
Wilson replied: "I can guar­antee you that ... you have 

her. And she 
paid tribute to 
him for putting more women into top posts than any or his predecessors. 
"I have managed something that I never, ever thought would be possible, which is to have the highest-level job in the field of my choosing," she said. ''I've loved every minute of this." 
The Constitution bars Albright or any other foreign­born citizen· from the presi­dency -a ban Albright said she would like to see changed. 
"I do believe people that have not been born here ought to have the opportunity to serve at the highest level," she said. to loud applause from more than 200 women in the audience. 

Do you like to write? 'Write for The Observer. 
Call 1-S323. 

Allltrak seeks $108 for new train service 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
America's first high-speed train scrvic11 is almosl a year behind schedule. but ron­grcssional supporters slill plan a major push this wenk to devote $3.3 billion to develop 11 other high-speed rail lines throughout the nation. 
Cnder propnsr.d Senate legislation, Amtrak would be allowed to raise $10 billion over 10 years through sal(1 of bonds exempt from federal taxes. 
Critics say such a financial boost is premature, because Amtrak is under congres­sional edict to prove it can operate withoul federal sub­sidies by 2003. If the dead­line were to be missed. Congress could liquidate 
Amtrak. 
"We are strongly opposed to inclusion of yet another 
bailout for Amtrak" without 
further congressional hear­
ings, Republican Sens. Phil 
Gramm of Texas and John McCain of Arizona wrote Monday to Senate Finance Committee Chairman William Roth, R-Del. 
Supporters of the legisla­tion say high-speed trains will be necessary whether or not Amtrak survives as the nation's provider of long-dis­tance passenger rail service. 
Where the Senate version or the bill refers to "Amtrak." the House version uses Urn generic phrase "qualif'iPd interrity passPngnr rail carri­
er." 
Fifty-four senators and 155 representatives have signed as co-sponsors of onto tlrn legislation, sponsornd by Sen. Frank Lautenbcrg and Rep. Amo Houghton. 
Roth addr,d the bill's lan­guage to legislation granting tax breaks and new govern­ment programs l'or impover­ished. rural and inncr-cily communities. The legislation is supported by President Clinton and Bepublir,an lead­ers in Congress. 
Hoth's committee will con­sider the legislation Wednesday. 
The push for high-speed rail comes whilP pass1rngers still are waiting for its delayed debut. Amtrak's bul­let-nosed AceJa Express trains, originally planned to begin service last year. may begin running late next month at ,;peeds or 150 mph on the Boston-Washington Northeast Corridor. 

Amtrak, which has c:on­sunwd more Lhan $22 billion in federal operating subsidies sinC(J its creation in 197 I. is relying on high-spned rail to boost revenues and help it achieve snlf-sullicinncy. 
Iligh-speed corridors am defined as rail lines wlwre train spends of 90 mph or greater arc possible. In addi­tion to the Northeast Corridor, the government has designated eight rnrridors. and the Transportation Department has authority to choose three more. 
The eight d11signated corri­dors are in upstate New York: California: Florida; Pennsylvania: between Oregon and Washington; on the Atlantic Coast between Washington. D.C., and Florida; on the Gulf Coast between Texas and Alabama; and in the Midwest, linking Chicago to several cities including Detroit and St. Louis. 
The bill's backers say 18 of the country's 20 most delay­prone airports are located along the corridors. They pitch high-speed rail as a relaxing and reliable alterna­tive to air travel. 
"With congestion increas­ing on our highways and air­ways, American travelers are demanding another option to get where they're going, and high spet1d rail is the surPst way to ddivn it," said Wisconsin Gov. Tommy Thompson. Amtrak's chair­man. 
Preparations for high­speed train service can inrludc straightening tracks. strnngthcning bridges. improving intersections bntwcen tracks and roads. renovating stations and buy­ing train sets. 
Under the lngislation, Amtrak could sell lax-exempt bonds, as states and local governmnnts do. and states would match at least :w pr.r­r.ent of Amtrak's share. 
The Joint Taxation Committee says the cost to the federal government in lost tax revenue would be $3.3 billion over 10 years. Honald D. Utt. senior research fellow at the r.on­scrva tive lleritage Foundation, said in a. founda­tion rPport the cost could reach $16 billion ovnr :rn years. 
Please recycle The Observer. 

Tuesday, September 19, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Advertisement supporting GOP shoots for diversity 



Associated Press 
WASI llNGTON 

,\ consPrvativ<' group is airing TV ads that urge voters to sup­port HPpublirnns. !'naturing a woman who says she pulled lwr son out ol' public. school hPcausP there was drugs. vio­l<•nw and "a bit morn diversity than lw could handln." 
Tlw ad is running in Kansas Citv. Mo.. whnre a bitter battln ovrr school desngrngation is b<~ing !'ought. Tlw lfopublir.an ldmts t>olitiral CommittPc plans to show it and otlwr ads in additional marki->Ls lhis !'all. l'ound<'r and ronsPrvativP com­nwntator Hirlrnrd :--Jadlnr said. 
Domer Run
2 A BENEFIT FOR NOTRE DAME'S 000 AwARENEss .F BREAST CANCER 
PROGRAM 
3 & 6 MILE RUNS, 2 MILE WALK AND ~ 
;r'
PANCAKE BREAKFAST 'r~ 

o SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 30;::...,k :;:, 11:00 -STEPAN CENTER 
T-SHIRTS TO ALL FINISHERS REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS $6.00 IN ADVANCE AND $7.00 DAY OF RACE DEADLINE FOR ADVANCE REGISTilATION IS 9/29/00 AT 5:00PM 

• 
STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS T-SHIRTS DONATED BY THE ND ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
~ ~~~ 
• 
u, 
.... 
0 
II 
z
--d:
~N 0~ 
cc.. 
Store Hours: 
Sunday -Thursday 11 am -2 am 
Friday & Saturday 11 am -3 am 
Missouri Hepublicans arc wary of the unsolicited help. 
"We don't have anything to do with that group and r.r.rtain­ly wouldn't have anything to do with any ad campaign they're running." said Daryl Duwe. n spokesnrnn for lhe !'vlissouri RPpubliran Party. 
It's onn of a series of spots the group is running. 
A radio ad, called "A Black Hnpublican." featurPs a black man talking about how he is now a Ifopublican. "Democrats taught nw to hatn wealth. The Hcpublirans helped nw to get som<'... hn says. Other ads deal with privatization of Social Srrurity: on0 critirizin, 
.>... ~ 
-· .!.!IJl~c!~!~.. 
® 

Domino's Delivery 271-0300 
Welco.me Back Studentsl 
Democrat Al Gore and the other supporting George W. Bush. "The goal is to elPct Republicans," said Nadler. 
Nadler said he's raised $83,000 so far and hopes to r.ollect more than $100.000 by November. Ile would not name the other cities where he plans to advertise but said he hopes to help "Republicans up and down the line." 
In the Kansas City ad. the narrator tells the story of her fir.tional family: a daughter who did well in public school and a son who wanted to attend a pri­vatP. sr.hool. 
"When Jason started hanging with the wron crowd, we had 
to act fast," the woman says. "We didn't want him where drugs and violence were fash­ionable. It was a bit more diver­sity than he could handle." 
The woman emphasizes the word "diversity," and as she says it, a multiracial group of children is seen hanging oul near a stairway. 
The 60-second ad goes on to promote educational savings accounts, which give parents tax breaks to save for tuiLion. The ad ends with the words "Vote Bcpublican" across the screen. 
Democrats argued that the ad had racist overtones, saying "diversity" was a code word for 
,-......._ .,._
I -,.

I ....., 
,, Sog,n'7 
I • J /
I 16,, h I I uo0,• I I 0urli}Ji 'IIJtJfor I 
1.. !Jest~; I 
,, 111zziJ I 
'--..._ I 
............/ 

I ',,,lj; 

I ,---....._ 
I • 1 I 2l I 
I 1 dtge I
l.. . ""lo,. . I 
-._'.._ ,JPIIJg I 
--..._ I 
'--.._j 
racial minorities. 
Democratic National Committee spokeswoman Jenny Backus said the ad had "Willie llortonesque echoes in it." a reference to a 1988 ad by an independent group about a Massachusetts prison furlough program that was widely viewed as a racist swipe at Democrat Michael Dukakis. 
"It's important to stand up and say there's no room for tac­tics like this," she said. "Instead of being deplornd, diversity should be celebrated." 
Ad export Kathleen Hall Jamieson agreed that the ad had a racial flavor. 
"Instead of making a case for parental choir.e it appnars to make the case against diversi­ty," said Jamieson of the University of Pennsylvania. "Diversitv is a code word for either a Sf)cial class the woman finds offensive or a rarial minority the person finds offen­sive. or both." 
Duwe, of the Missouri GOP. had not seen the video though, but was disturbed by the ad script. He said it could be inflammatory and was not a smart way to promote tax breaks. 
Nadler. who wrote the ad. said he did not intPnd to make a slatement about race. 
"J am not used to clearing my language through liberal Democrats before I write it," he said. 
The Republican Ideas Political Committee is a foderally regis­tered political action committee that fully discloses its doni:irs and spending. 


VIEWPOINT 
01,SERVER 


DILBERT 
I'VE BEEN TA.KING A. 
SELF-PA.CED ONLINE TRA.INING COURSE TO "SHA.R.PEN MY SAW." 
WHA.T'S THE SUBJECT? 
1 DON'T 
.. 
= HOW 
: 
COULD 
,;" 
C 
;,,. YOU 
r/) 
NOT 

SCOTT ADAMS 
WHAT PART OF ''SE.LF­PA.CED" 15 CONFUSING 
YOU? 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"/ wasn't always a terrific athlete. I can remember times when I couldn't run, jump and chew gum at the same time. And Ijust had to practice, practice, practice. I became a pretty good athlete after hard work. " 
Shaquille O'Neal professional basketball player 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh D111ing HJ!!, Notre Dnmc, IN 465~6 
EDITOR IN CJ-HE!' Mikt· Connolly 

MANAGING Enn·oR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Nore,•n Gillespie  Tim Lane  
Assr. MANAGING Eunou  OPl:.R.ATI0NS MANAGER  
Christine Kraly  Brian Kessler  

Ni:ws EDITOR: Ann; Murie tvlal!ingly Vif\VPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kmy Smith SCENf EDITOR: Amand:1 Greco SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Molly McVoy P110TO EDITOR: Eltzabed1 Lan~ 

AtlYl'ltTISING MANI\C;ER: Pat l'crcrs All OFSJGN MANAGER: Chri., Avila SYSTEMS AUMINIS'l'RATOR: Mike Gt1nville \VER Ar>MINISTRAT0R: Adam Tmntr CoNTROILFR: Buh W'ood, GRAPHICS EOIT0R: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/G!'NERAL lNrn..............631-7471 FAX .................................... .........................631-6927 AovrnTmNG.... ...............63 l-6900IR840 
observcr@darwin.cc. nd.cdt1 EDITOR IN CHIEF.......................................631-4 S42 MANA«.;ING EDITOR/AS.'ff. ME...................631-4541 BUSINESS OFF!CE.. ......................................631-5313 NEWS.........................................................631-5323 
observer.ol»news. I@nd.edu 

VIEWPOINT.................................................631•5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS...............................................,........631-454.'> observer.spons.1@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S............................................631-4324 
observcr.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO...................................................... 631•8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.ed11 for daily updates of campus news. sports. features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-to-rhe 
111inure fruecasts 
weekly student reviews 
online features for spe-­
advertise for policies 
cial campu., coverage
and rates ofprint ads 
about The Observer
archives to search for 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
Staff 

POUCIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the srudems ofrhe University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial con tern. including advertisements. is not governed by policie, ofthe adminiscrarion ofeither insriturion. The Obsef\cr reserves the right ro refuse advenL1tt"llll'nl.S based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as pos.,iblc. Unsigned ediwrials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Man,1ging Editor, Assistant Managing Edirnr ,nd department editors. Con1111em.1ries, letters and columns present the views of the, authors and nm necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vi.cwpoi111 space is available ro all reader.,. The free expression of all opinion~ through leners is rnrnuraged. Letters rn the Editor 111usr he signed and musr include contact i11formation. 
Qucmom regarding Observer policies should be dirrct· ed ro r.ditor i,i Chief Mike Connolly. 
MADISON, Wis. 
Citius. altius. fortius -the motto of the Olympic games, which bAgin Friday night with opening ceremonies. The motto's English translation is, "Swifter, higher, stronger." Unfortunately, the question is why 
Benjamin
these athletes are running swifter, Thompson jumping higher and swimming stronger. 
Badger
Doping -the use 
Herald
of performance­enhancing drugs ­is the most serious issue facing the mod­ern Olympic movement. The Olympic charter states, "The goal of the Olympic Movement ... requires ... fair play." The widespread use of doping not only makes the achievement of this goal impossible but damages the credibility of the entirn games. Furthermore, doping is damag­ing the very foundation of the games ­the athletes. 
The dichotomy of doping and fair play is quite obvious. Werner Reiterer, an Australian discus-thrower, complained, "I was training my guts out every day, exhausting myself', risking injury and being beaten again and again by guys I knew were on drugs." How did he level the playing field and become an Olympic finalist? By becoming a "doper" himself. 
Wes Barnett, an alternate for the U.S. weight-lifting team echoed Reitcrer's sentiment: "Ifyou choose not to take drugs, you really don't stand a chance." Doping has twisted the idea of fair play in such a way that athletes foe! the only way they can play on a level field is through doping. 
Doping also tarnishes the credibility of each event we watch, and by extension, the entire Olympics. When a group of runners crosses the finish line. we have to ask whether the winner had an unfair advantage. Was the event clean? Is any event clean? Do records even mean any­thing'? These questions all undflrminc the Olympic ideal. 
What is more alarming than the com­promising of the Games' integrity is that doping is taking its greatest toll on the athletes who, like Heiterer, feel com­pelled to cheat. Burdened by the expec­tations of their country and inspired by fame and fortune, an untold number of Olympic athletes are willing to risk their lives for the chance at Olympic glory./\ survey in 1995 asked Olympic-caliber 

U.S. athletes. "Would you take a drug that made you a champion, knovving that it would kill you in five years?" More than half said ves. 
Doping is killing these athletes. One of the most popular drugs on the market is erythropoetin, or EPO, which increases the number of oxygen-carrying red blood cells. The oxygen boost EPO provides can improve an athlete's performance in a 20-minute run by 30 seconds and by as much as four minutes in a marathon. 
But the risk hardly seems worth it. An overdose could make the blood too thick for the heart to pump. Following the drug's introduction in 1987, Dutch cyclists suffered a series of mysterious heart attacks. and experts believe EPO is the cause of more than 25 deaths in the past 13 years among Olympic-caliber cyclisL'i. 
The need for change is evident. Not only must fair play and credibility be preserved, but the athletes must also be protected from themselves and the pres­sure to win. Unfortunately, the group most able to effect such change -the International Olympic Committee -is bogged down by politics and an inherent conflict of interest. 
It is the IOC that benefits when people watch Olympic athletes, especially high­profile competitors. The IOC's best inter­ests are served when those athletes suc­ceed in unnatural fashion -and those same interests are damaged when ath­letes are found guilty of doping. The IOC has always viewed drugs as a public­relations problem. Consequently, the IOC talks a lot about doping. but does very little. 
The result is a dismal testing record. For example, between 197 4 and 1989, East Germany was documented as hav­ing given all of its athletes (except mem­bers of its sailing team) performance-enhancing drugs. Only one was caught. In the past decade, 27 Chines<. swim­mers were caught using banned sub­stances by the World Swimming 
Federation. Of the 27, the IOC also caught ... zero. 
Many athletes arc only tested during competition, leaving the rest of the year wide open for abuse -athletes can merely halt their drug use during the Games, effectively retaining all the dop­ing benefits without risking a positive test. 
The only way to address the problnm is for the IOC to admit that it cannot do the job of policing drug use. Such an admis­sion would lead to the creation of an autonomous commission that would hold the power to regulate doping in interna­tional events. This arrangement would remove the IOC's conflict of interest; the commission's sole purpose would be to test for doping, not to make money or portray a favorable public image. 
Furthermore, this "Doping Commission" would have to be granted the ability to conduct random, unan­nounced tests on potential Olympic ath­letes at any time during the year. If an athlete were to fail a test, a two-year ban would be levied, followed by a perma­nent ban for a second offense. 
Random, year-round testing would dis­courage athletes from doping at any time, as opposed to just during the Olympics, which, when combined with a stiff punishment, should serve as p.. pow­erful deterrent against doping. 
Such changes would only start to address the problem, but any progress would be a step in front of' the current situation. My hope for future Olympic games is that the best man wins -not the best pharmacist. 
This column first appeared in the University of Wisconsin newspaper, the Badger Herald, on Sept. 15, and is reprinted here courtesy qf U-W!Rh'. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Tuesday, September 19, 2000 BSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE· EDITOR 
Working for excellence at any collegiate level 

I have struggled for days with the thought of continuing the dialogue that has ocrurrnd over thE> past Wefok concerning the 2000 Saint Mary's volleyball learn and the editorial opinions Axpressed hy The Observer. The real reason behind my response is that I saw this as an opportuni­ty to share my thoughts with the l\lotre Dame and Sainl Mary's communities about the exciting future and direction for the athletic program at Saint Mary's. 
First and foremost, I must express my ovf'rwht1lming respect and prid<e resulting from articles and coverage that the athletic programs at Saint Mary's have received since my arrival last fall. rhave been very imµressed with tlrn enthusiasm an<l intregrity of' tht> writers who have support­r,d our programs. 
I bdieve that if any sports writer wants to draw similarities between the athletic program at :\/otrt> Dame and Saint Mary's hr or she can only do so on the basis that both schools are striving for academic and athletic excellence across the board. !, however, do not think we should eVC'r try to compare the programs of the two schools but we should cherish the differences and l'ocus on all the positives that each of our ath­letic programs have to offer. 
Part-time coaches who make the com­mitment purely 
for the love of ~ 
the College and their student­athletes coach most of our teams. To answer the quote from Katie McVoy's Sept. 12 col­• umn. "our athletes are young, inexperienced, but should they not be beating those teams they beat last year?" The facts for 
the 2000 Belles volleyball team are these: 
1. 
We only have one or two experienced players who returned to the squad. 

2. 
We graduated half of our starting line­up. 

3. 
We lost our top first-year player who was all-league and a starter from last year's team. 

4. 
The reality of a successful athletic pro­gram rests also with aggressive and contin­ual recruiting. There had not been any recruiting for this team over the past few years, so when gni.duation took away the bulk of the returnees it did I.cave some very big shoes to lilt. 


From someone who has watched this team and all the other toams practice and compete at Saint I\.Iary's, we truly do have something very spBcial here. The improvB­mcnl that this volleyball team has made since the very first practice is unbelievable. [ know that we like to measure success by wins an<l losses in this country, but success can mean so much more. It is so easy to be a greal and supportive community when our teams are winning, but step up to that samn role when the wins are not coming. This past weekend, l wat1.,;hed this volley­ball team take on Hope. the top team in the MIA,\. When the game was over, our team walked away without its first team win, but all I saw was success. Our team had 1.,;hem­istry some tt>ams never experience. Tlrn individual and team improvement over the last few weeks was unbelievable. So many points could have gone either way and we gave the best the MIAA has to offer -a mmpetitive and exciting volleyball match from start lo finish. lt is so easy to be men­tally tough and ready when your team is winning, but to also be mentally and physi­cally ready when you are still searching for that first ,vin is a wonderful example of great coaching. great leadership and the desire to play the sport for the love of it. 
The most important similarity betweon our schools is lhat the athletes who cum­pf'tf' for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are fellow classmates and friends. Ifwe ,vere with these athletes day in and day out and knew all the details concerning their pri­vate lives and work ethics, only this would 
enable us to make a fair judgement about their successes and fail­ures. In the end, all athletes are training and compet­ing for the love of their 
sport, the commitment to their teammates, the pride of their 
school and for the 
respect of their coaches. How thankful I am for 
these athletes and coaches who represent 
our schools, regardless of their win-loss record. 
I spent 20 years in Division I athletics, and 
after just one quick year at Saint Mary's I have found the 
exact same love and commitment from our athletes that I had at my prior institution. All true athletes want to Q_~-train hard, he challenged · with each and every practice or 
competition, strive for excellence, find success. build pride for their campus and have fun. As Saint Mary's moves into the new millennium, watch out. The mes­sage is clear. The past is the past and the future will bring change. There is a new message and direction that is taking shape due to the coaches, administrators and ath­letes at Saint Mary's College. The winning will come when everything else is in place. The plan is moving forward and time will help us to nut only find great improvement with each of our varsitv teams, but when it all comes together win~1ing is just around the corner. 
We invite you to be proud of both varsity athletic programs. One, which is at the top of NCAA Division I programs and tht> other that is on its way to the top of NCAA Division mprograms. How wonderful that in just one small area we are showing the South Bend community that there is au athletk program for everyone. 
I wish continued fun and success to lhe Fighting Irish and to the Saint Mary's Belles. 
Lynn Kachmarik 
D ircctor of Athletics 
Saine Ma1y's College 
September 17, 2000 

There is no doubt that the bar and club scene at Notre Dame has improved over the past few years as the article in Friday's issue illus­trates. It is too bad though that the Corby's name has been placed on such a poor imitation of the origi­nal. For current students who want to know about what a real college bar is all about, next weekend seek out an alumnus of the classes from the late ?O's to mid 80's and ask about the real Corby's -a place that should have lived forever. 
Michael Joyce Class of '83 September l 6, 2000 

Fans don't take back seat to tradition 
I am a freshman at Notre Dame. ~either my parents nor my siblings have attended this fine University. I am a newcomer to the tradition. Therefore, there are a few things I do not understand. Most articles, editorials and letters to the editor tend to praise Notre Dame for their classy fans and proud tradition. 
The few that criticize these quali­ties refer to,cheers of the students against the other team and disre­spect for our opponents' cheers. While I understand that we have a proud tradition to defend and a his­tory of class, I do not understand why these people think that these cheers are necessarily detracting from our proud tradition and class. 
For example, I was watching the Purdue game and I turned when I heard people behind me booing. A newscaster from WNDU was trying to ·interview two Purdue fans in our student section. The newscaster turned around when someone threw something at them and more or less said "you guys are Notre Dame fans. Have more class than that." Now I may be crazy, but I really do not think that was fair. Why is WNDU interviewing Purdue fans in our student section? Isn't that just as disrespectful? It is as if the Notre Dame fans are chained dogs who are teased by whomever, all because of our "tradition." 
We cannot respond, even in an appropriate way. Fans, readers and other ,colleges, you may refer to our proud tradition and class, but do not expect us to not be fans. 
Matthew Lester freshman Alumni Hall September 16, 2000 

What? Wo ho~e 

Use some of that free time to write us a letter! observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu 



ALBUM REVIEW 
Boyz return from absence with mature album 
ALBUM REVIEW 
BNL takes a more serious approach with Maroon 
the Canadian quintet

By LISA BRUNO 
Barenaked Ladies. Scene Music Critic 
In BNL's fifth studio release, Maroon, they fuse acoustic andLately the music scene has electric to offer a marvelously 
felt like a veritable drought, eclectic album. The vocal union with little hope for any of Steven Page and Ed reprieve. Well, a rain cloud is Robertson shines brilliantly on in the sky and it comes from this new album. 

lip?/How a
Maroon, the fifth studio album by the Barenaked Ladies marks a 
mouthful of'
departure from the standard BNL composition. New instruments ancl a 
Chiclets?/Life passed
more serious tone make the new album a must listen for BNL fans. 
Musically, no instruments go unexplored by the Ladies as piano, organ, melodica, double bass, viola and violin are among the many that are heard. But that's only half the story of Maroon, the other half lies within the simply great lyrics, 
This album takes a 
simple topic, life, and explores it and those feelings and thoughts encompassed in living. 
In Maroon. the LadiP.s seem to have put aside their trademark lyrical silliness, to instead explore darker and more serious lyrics. 
Their first single, "Pinch Me," does how­ever reveal that the Ladies lyrical humor is still thriving with lines like. ··1 just made you say underwear." 
This humor continues in "Ne,·er Do Anything," but is mixed with the new more serious Ladies, "Got a big chip, you want a fat 
'bout 
By ARIENNE THOMPSON 
Scene Music Criric 
Staying power has a definite duality. On the one hand, an artist may have the talent to sustain a core audience even after a lengthy absenre. but when the artist does finally return, will the quality of their music be consistent with this obvious apti­tude? Considf'ring this question, Boyz II Men have defmitcly proven themselves as "the originals." Original what's, one may ask? Well, dur­ing a time when Justin Timberlake's pale, chiselt>d face and sad voice won't stop haunting the general non-teenybopper population, the term "boy band" has become a deeply rooted concept in American musical culture, Under a very loose interpretation, Boyz II Men is considered by many to be the origi­nal boy band of the 1990s. Fortunately, the Boyz appeal to a much larger audience than say 'NSYNC or the Backstreet Boys who have both accredited Boyz II Men with influencing their vocal styles. Whether or not Justin and Company actually sound anything like Boyz II Men, is not up for debate, however. Boyz U Men is in a league by itself as evidencfld by their third and most recent release maturely and simply entitled Nathan Michael Shawn Wanya. 
The new album from the four Philadelphia natives shows why fans have remained by their side even after the com­mercial flop of their last album, Evolution. and the absence of new material that fol­lowed, Now these young men are older and perhaps wiser, as the new album sug­gests with numerous references to mar­riage and "settling down." 
Boyz II Men are in love with love and songs like "l Finally Know" and "Thank You In Advance" are further proof that they are the original crooners of mushy ballads. 
Surprisingly, though, some of the ballads on Nathan Michael Shawn Wanya are given extra spunk thanks to the thumping production credits of, among others, Kevin "She'kspere" Briggs who is best known for his skills as executive producer of Destiny Child's monster hit album The Writing's On The Wall. 
The Boyz also did a little more experi­menting with instruments on this album. "Step On Up" is infused with the boldness of brass, while the compliment-filled 
"Beautiful 

and sound, Nathan Morris, Michael McCrarv. Shawn Stockman and Wanya Morris collective­ly produce the 
·tightest har­monies in H&B today. These men can truly sing and no catchy heats or unique instruments can mask this fact. 
UnrfouhtHdly, the best track on the album, the spellbinding "I Do" blends the elements of pow­erful vocalization and pure old school harmoniz­ing. Emotion teems from each phrase as the Boyz ask, "Do I give all that l am to be now and for­ever your man?/ Do I take you to be without ques­
tion the woman for me?/ Do I promise you?/ I do." The pleading "Pass You By" also lends itself to the sensations of love and doubt, showcasing the undeniable tal­ent of these anchors of the now defunct "East Coast Family." 
Unfortunately, the Boyz' latest is not without it's disappointing, though not entirely unexpected flaws. Falling into the recent trend of terrible lyrics and asinine claims that has managed to invade popular music, this album reaches its lowest point on the corny "Bounce, Shake, Move, Swing." Despite the established vocal talent 

Boyz If Men, with their new album, Nathan Michael Shawn Wanya, are out to show the pop world just what a boy band 
can really do. 

present on the track, there is nothing with­in the elementary lyrics and cheesy, futur­istic beat that should interest anyone. The Boyz also fall victim to the "rhyming dis­ease," manipulating tough words like "sen­sualities" and "magazine" into cute little rhymes. 
Disregarding these slight, but cringe­worthy errors in judgment on the part of an otherwise respectable R&B group, fans will find Nathan Michael Shawn Wanya a wonderful (and critical) addition to their treasured and already classic Boyz II Men collection. 

me by, but it's not my fault/I'll lick my wounds, if you could pass ihe sali?" 
In "Conventionecrs," the Ladies do what only they could pull off -singing to a sultry backdrop -they tell the story of a random convention hook up, "We rolled around in robes and hot.el sandals." 
Even if the lyrics seem to be of a heavier content than is usually standard for the Ladies, they still mask this in decep­tively upbeat music. 
Take for example, "Tonight Is Tho Night I Fell Asleep At The Wheel." which tells the grim tale of an auto accident, but is set to carniYal like music. "Off The Hook" tells a downright sad story of an affair, "The credit card receipts, the dirty sheets/The souvenir of men who cheat/It all makes sense­with each offense/You wanted to believe him," which is set to a bass thumping backdrop that barely even hints at the sad­ness so appar!;lnt in the lyrics of the song. 

Maroon is an album that should not disappoint longtime BNL fans or newer enthusiasts just getting introduced to HNL. 
The Ladies reveal that they can appease both by sticking to their trademark style, while at the same time exploring a darker and more serious side. 
Nathan Michael Shawn Wanya 
Boyz II Men 
Universal Records 
Rating 

....... 
Women" plays around with a Spanish guitar. The most important instruments heard o the album. howev­er, remain the voices of the four members of Boyz II Men. 
Possessing perhaps virtu­ally flawless range, pitch 


Finding an identity 
With Saint Mary's preparing to celebrate it's third Pride Day, The
OCUS 
Observer looks at the College's relationship with Notre Dame. Tuesday, September 19, 2000 A bi-weekly feature ofThe Observer News Department 
A matter of pride 

Cloaked beneath a shared history with the Golden Dome, the women's college that was once a complement to Notre Dame has emerged in the 21st century as an independent institution. But the challenge to define themselves in that way -but also to share in their rich, linked 
history with Notre Dame -is a tightrope that Saint Mary's student leaders 
and administrators alike walk daily. 
"It's hard to say how our identity is tied into Notre Dame's," said College president Marilou Eldred. "Certainly from the founding of both institutions there were parallel identities. On one hand, we're very suc­cessful in our own right. We're doing very well in enrnllment. with t'undraising, with all the things that an, going on here. At the same time. it's certainly advantageous !'or us to be across the street from Notre Dame and to have the long history and good relation­ship that we have." 
But th(~ exact nature of the rr.lationship br.tweon institutions has varied over the decades, which have seen Saint Mary's deny an offer to merge with Notre Dame in 1971. deal with gender relations between the schools and struggle to beat stereotypes on both sides of the street that prnvent students from embracing their common history. 
But it is the struggle to defeat the stereotypes that has proven to be the most difficult. 
In their words 
"We don't depend on Notre Dame to define who we are. " 
Georgeanna Rosenbush director of Student Activities Saint Mary's 

It was four years ago that the "parasite letter" -an accusatory letter from two Notre Dame women to The Observer -sent shockwaves through the Saint Mary's community. Allegations that Saint Mary's women "pass themselves off as Notre Dame students" angered the Saint Mary's student body. Although the letter made the allegations more public than ever before, its assertions were nothing new in gender relations between the campuses, remembers Georgeanna Rosenbush. director of Student Activities at Saint Mary's. 
"We'd been called a parasite before," she said. "When ND went co-ed, it didn't really affect relations right away because there weren't that many women admitted yet. It wasn't until the early to mid-80s that it started to have an effect. Un the early 80s] it seemed every fall something similar to the parasite letter 
1997 

see PRIDE/page 4 
Year of '!he parasite letter' and the first Saint Mary's Pride Day, which is held annu• 
ally on Oct. 6. 

A Shared History 
1842 -Congregation of Ho~ Cross founds Notre Dame 
1844 -Sisters ofHo~ Cross found Saint Mary's Academy in Bertrand, Mich. 
1855 -Saint Mary's moves closer to ND and becomes first U.S. Catholic Women's college 
1965 -First co-exchange between the two schools 
11971 -ND & SMC agree to merge, but later decided against unification 
In their words 
"I have respect for Notre Dame and I have respect for their traditions. I'd love to see traditions ofour own occur at Saint Mary's." 
Emily Koelsch organizer of first Pride Day 
page 2 The Observer . IN FOCUS Tuesday, September 19, 2000 
ONE PERSON'S VIEW 
Friends across the road 
Just as 01w i.rnplcasant f'Xp<iriPncP or 
thoughtlPss individual t·an giVf\ an rntin~ 
group a bad rPputalion. I lrnv<' found that 01w 
group of' opnn-mindPd and thoughtl'ul Notre 
Danw womPn hav<• st'! a posilivl' tonr> for all 
or mv l'utur<' intl'rarlions 
with·frnrnl<· Don11·rs 
OnP of mv bt•st f'ri<'nds. 
whom I Ila~<' krwwn sinn• 
WP wPrP 4-y{•ars nld. is a 
SPnior at. Noln· Da11w. We 
,wnt through tlw ('()i[f'g(• 
application prol't'ss togcth­
PI'. both applying to Saint 
Marv's and Nolrt> DamP. 
WP dis<·ussf'd tlw t\ssavs 
wfi had to writ.1' for both 
schools and slrnrr>d fravc•d 
1wrvPs lwf'on• our i11LP1:­
vi1•ws. WP both f'arPd tlw 
t1lugh dPcision in April. 
1'!1oosing lrntw!wn tlw 
ll1•ll('S and tlw Irish. Mv 
l'rit'IHI and I dwsl' opp;lsite sides ol U.S. 31. 
That d1oit'P has clonP nothing but improvP 
the l'ri«'1Hlship wi" had bdorn collegr. Slw and 
lwr friPnds hav1\ bPPn nxamplrs Lo me of 
what b!'ing a woman at Notrn fJanrn nwans 
and whv thPrP is no rwPd for animositv 
bctWf'P;I the two schools. They knrw nw first. 
and tlwn llwv krH'W I was from Saint Marv's. 
Tlwy judged ·nw. not on my school. but or; 
what tlwv saw of" mP in our inleractions. I 
ah\ays f',;ll WPkonw and nPvnr out of plac·(1. I 
did not f'ppj likP "that girl WP know from 
across thP stn'PL .. Tlwy askPd honest quPs­
tions aboul Saint Marv's and I f'Plt fnw to 
shan• what i krww and folt. 
I!Pr group of' l'riPnds and my group of 
friends soon IJ<'canw friPnds. Tlw issuPs of 
who's smartPr and "whv is slw al'ross tlw 
stn•Pt'?" 1wvpr ramc> up: WP all took road 
trips togi>thn and wPnt out togPth1,r on 
WC'PkPnds. OnP of' LIH• things that imprPssPd 
and mPant llH' most to nw was that tlw wholn 
Irish group c·,rnw ovPr lo Saint Marv's for mv 
21st birthdav cl'i<'bration. · · 
Through tl;PSi' t'Xpt•rienc<>s. wt> saw tlwt we 
had mori• in common than W<' had diffor­
r111'1's. \Vt' all IH'V<'I' haV(' 1•nough Lim<' to do 
half' of what our n·spp1·tivP sdrnols l'Xpt>rt. 
\\'pall arc• rnlh•gp wonwn and sharp thP rol­
lt•1·,LivP l'XcitemPnt. strt\SS and drama that 
rnnH' with that. \Vn all arc rabid Notre Danw 
f'ootlrnll !'ans and undnrstand whv then· is 
nothing quit1• as important on a Saturday 
aftPrnoon as wlwtlwr that ball makes it 
through thos(' uprights beforf' LIH' clod runs 
out. W1~·rc~ all young and growing up togoth­
Pr, learning the IPssons that ('.orno with matu­
rity. 
ThPSP intrractions SPL a prnct'dent for all of' 
llw NolrP Danw wonwn I met latPr. I expect­
rd tlwm to b1i fun. intf'lligent, fair individuals 
lik<' my fri<'nd from homfl. Because of these 
women. I havr come to Pxprrt thP best whPn 
mp,eting a Notrr Damr woman. In rr.turn. I 
havn not bePn disappointed. 
My exp1'riencPs with these Notrn OamP 
wonwn havt1 shown me what I always thought 

should bP truP. It takes onlv a few brave. 
opl'n-minded prople to get "past the stereo­
typPs to Llw people that are there. 

J'he 11iell's e:rpressed in this column are those of the author and nol necessarily those of The Ohserl'er. 

IN FOCUS STAFF Editor: Tim Logan Photography: Tony Floyd Art: Jose Cuellar Graphics: Dana Mangnusson 

Trying to brid 
Many Notre Dame -Saint Marys liasons 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY ln focus Writer 
Strreotypes of' Notre Danw and 
Saint Mary's studPnts persist at both 
institutions. Although 0111~ can't be 
surr when th(•y are l!•arned, l'rnsh­
men are conf'ront0d with the porcep­
ti on s about ea!'h other as they 
bn('tJl11P part or lhci C'omrnunitiPS. 
~lany a.grcP that trying to stop 
thesn stereotypes from being articu­
1ate d by upperclassmen during 
Frnshman Orientation and increased 
interaction behvfHrn the sexPs Rt 
both schools could improve the rela­
tionship and brnak down the barri­
nrs rreatPd by negative pcrr,rptions. 
In hopes of combating genRraliza­tions about l\otrl' Oam<' and Saint MtLry's students. the Freshman Orit\ntation programs at both schools have taken mt\asurcs to safeguard againsl the perp1ituation of unsavory stereotypP.s. 
i\t Notre Dam!', meetings arc held for those involved in orientation to talk about stereotypes and to explain how to encourage positive relation­ships to combat these pPrceptions, said Mark DeMott. a Freshman Orii>ntation commissioner in Carroll Ilall. 
"Orn• of tlw things that we do in Carroll llall and that is done in other dorms is to meet with thosp, in the hall who havn conrn back earlv to ht>lp with freshman orinntati,;n," DPMott said. "W0 talk to th<' uppPr­classnrnn and emphasize that we want the freshmen to come in with an open mind. W<! don't want upper­dassnwn taking tht•m aside and say­ing. 'Zahm guys are this' or 'Saint Mary's girls an' that.· We try not to lrnv<' tlw uppr~rclassnwn influPnce tlw frnshnwn to hold any biases." 
DeMott added that in Carroll Ilall, they try to acquaint thRir frpshmrn v,;ith women from both sd10ols. 
"We make it a point to let tlrnrn know that Saint Mary's is our sister school and we try lo do something to familiarize them with the Saint M,try's campus and Saint Mary's stu­d1, nts," he said. "This usually involves attending the Jamaica Sbaka event held on Sunday al Saint Mary's." 
In addition. the hall has an extend­ed Freshman Orientation to include a series of presentations and events on topics rf'garding gender issues with regard to healthy and positive gender relationships, according to DeMntt. 
At Saint Mary's, freshman orienta­tion is also seen as a key time to fight stereotypes. 
Orientation counselors go through an application process followed by rigorous training. said Molly Kahn. a member of the Orientation Planning Committee and one of several stu­dents in charge of overseeing orien­tation counsf'lors. 
"We Pncouragp our orientation counselors to be very positive with the students becausr> most come hc,rn without thc~se perceptions about Notre Dame students," she said. "We tell them to be horn~st with the stu­dents but also to instill a sense of Saint Mary's pride in their l'reshmen and to present themselves as individ­uals with µride in their school." 
But fighting stereotypes must con­tinue beyond orientation weekend. said Veronir,a Kess1rnich, a Saint Mary's student and the College's rep­resentative to Notre Dame's Student Srmate. 
"In tho I'irst two weeks of school. studnnts may encounter more of the stn rnolypes bnr.ause that is when 

time to combat stereotypes b 


Students enter LeMans tower, the administration building and biggest dor Students say that greater interaction between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stereotypes each group sometimes holds about the other. 
thev delve into the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities," she said. "Everyone can light the stereotypes in their own right. It's a matter of r.ommunicating that the stereotypes am wrong and talking about why they are wrong and why they cxisL" 
Siegfried freshman Brian Otto has heard the stereotypes relayed from alumni and upperclassmen but said he doesn't put much stoC'k in what hr hears. 
"I usually ignore the negative stereotypes because people can't back them up." he said. "They are stupid generalizations that people have no evidence on which to base what they say. The fact that it is a generalization means thal the per­son is making an assumption and not giving everyone a fair chance." 
The purported tension between Notrt> Dame and Saint Mary's women is a c()mmon theme to the stereotypes. Otto said he had heard upperclassmen saying that the women from the two insiitu­
tions usually do not get along. 
Freshman Krvan O'Connor also arrived at Notre Dame under tlw assumption that Notre Damp and Saint Mary's women do not get along. 
"I had two oldPr sisters who went here so I had h1rnrd that Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women usually do not get along," he said. 
Freshman women from Saint Mary's and Notre Dame citt>d a lack of interaction with each other as one reason for the continuancr, of the stereotype that women at the two schools have a rivalry. 
"I don't think a diffcrnnce exists between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women." said Notre Damr f'rllshman Molly Anderson. "You hear things from upperclassnrnn about Saint Mary's womp,n but peoplr~ just kind of assum!l things because but thr:y haven't ser:n anything that would prove the stereotypes." 
Anderson added that the only 

Tuesday, Seprember 19, 2000 The Observer . IN FOCUS page 3 
ee Freshman Orientation as the 
Anderson add rd that thr only interartion she had with Saint Mary's women was ml~eting them at dorm partirs. 
Notre Danrn freshman Nirolr Wvkofs said shP doesn't k·now anv Saint Mary's womrn yet ·but has hrard a lot of talcs about women from NotrP Dame's sistl~r srhool. 
"I haven't met any Saint Mary's women yrt but I think if therr was more int!.'raction bPtwrPn thP two schools that would help:· she said. 
Across the strcrt. Saint Mary's f'reshmRn agreed that more> interartion could help kill sonw of Lh1~ stereotypes. 
··1 haven ·t had much interadion with Notre Danw wonmn," said Saint Mary's l'rnshman K8lly Webb. "The girls I have met have been okay but I think that both groups of women tend to avoid the othlw As for the stereotypes that exist about Saint Marv's and '\otrc Dame women. I can sav that I havPn·t heard them direcilv but I don't know and don't car;1 what tlrnv an>.." 
Jani 13urns. a freshman at Saint Mary's sa.id she is approaching the situation with an open mind. 
"Although I haven't met any Notre Dame women, rm not going to stereotype thrm all," Burns said. "I don't have a problem with them. I've heard stereotypes that there is supposed to be a rivalry between Notrn Dame a.nd Saint Mary's womrn and I've heard that from upperclassmen and guys at Notre Darm• who will sav that Notre Dume women don"•t lib, Saint Marv's women." 
Strsan Alexander, an associate profr.ssor of sociology at Saint Mary's. said that although them are different theories as to how stereotypes are developed, she leans toward the idea lhat those ideas ran develop strur.lurally. from the way society is set up. 
"Normally. !'or example. with str.rr.otypPs of race or ethnicity, 
The view fron1 both sides of the road 

"We don't want upperclassmen taking [freshmen] aside and saying 'Zahm guys are this' or 'Saint Mary's girls are that.' We try not to have the upperclassmen influence the freshmen to hold any biases." 
Mark DeMott Freshman Orientation commissioner Carroll Hall 

''The more links you have, the more stereotypes will go down. We need to build.friendships between the women of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame." 
Susan Alexander associate professor of sociology Saint Mary's 

Future teachers are students at two schools 
By TIM LOGAN lo Fo.:us Ediw, 
TherP are Notre Danrn students. There am Saint Mary's students. And thrn there are the Notre hame students who basically attend hoth schools. 
Notrr, Dame does not have an education major, so 29 students who want to learn how to be teachers travel across U.S. 31 every day to take classes at Saint Mary's. To get there, they drive. bikP or take the shut­tle, and join the much smaller student body to get an opportunity not offered at the major university they normally attend. 
"I'm really lucky the way it worked out," said junior Cheryl Tanski. 'Tm really lucky that l can go over them to take the classes I need." 
Education majors take one or two teach­ing classes each semester and many spend their final semester teaching full-time at an area school. The program prepares them to bn certiflRd to teach in Indiana. 
Saint fvlary's even lured some students. 

they are perpetuated in larger cul­ture by the mass media," she said. "It's different when looking at the stereotypes between Notrn Dame and Saint Marv's because it is not in the context· of a large cultural setting. It's interesting that in such a small community. stereotypes continue to persist." 
Alexander agreed that increased intflraction between the women or the two institutions could help break down stereotypes. She point­ed to research showing that people who live in highly intPgratPd com­munities tend to hold fewer stereo­typPs. 
"For example. if a person lives next to an African-American per­son they may hold stereotypes about that person that are proven wrong after living next to that per­son and interacting with them,'' Alexander said. "This then goes bPyond thP individual and that per­son may realize that stereotypes thev hold about African-Americans as· a group are not valid," Alexander continued. . 
"The more links vou have, the mon-' stereotypes ~ill go down," said Alexander. "We need to build friendships betwelm the women of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame." 
''I'm really lucky the way it worked out. " 
Cheryl Tanksi 
iunior education maior 
like senior Charlie Roth, to Notre Dame. Roth knew he wanted to be a teacher when he was in high school, but he wanted to go to Notre Dame. 
"I heard I could do it," he said. "So l dccidPd to come herP." 
Both faced the added challenge of being the only male in his entry-level education class of' 25 students. He said this wasn't a problem, but it did take some getting used to. 
"I was okay with it,'' Roth said. "I was a little worried about being intimidated." 
Senior Diane Cormier is another Notre Dame student in the Saint Mary's education program. She said being able to major in education meant that she would nut have to go to graduate school to receive ccrtifica-
Student leaders try to work together 
• But the two groups often have different goals 
By FINN PRESSLY 
In Focus Writer 
Two schools, two student bodies and two student gov­ernments. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
student !fiaders each face the task 
o 
r address­ing the issues of t h e i r 

o 
w n O'Donoghue campus­es, all thr. while rnminding mindful that what happens on one side of the road will lihly affect their counter• parts on the other. 



Keeping that in mind, both student governments aim to maintain open lines of communication, while respecting the individuality of' their own student popu­lations. 
"I think the opinion of the SMC student body is very important in r.onsideration of our actions," said Brian O'Donoghue. president of the Notre Dame student body. "An outside opinion -an opinion of 2000 out­side voices -is very valu­able. A voice from outside the bubble is always helpful -even if it's just across the highway." 
"! know in the past that we have consulted with [Saint Mary's student body president} Crissie Renner in issues facing her campus, and we have consulted with her with issues facing our campus," he said. 
Renner. meanwhile, said that while both schools strive to communicate with each other, the practicality of governing two distinct schools limits the extent to which thev can exert influ­ence upc;n each other's policies. 
"We keep a very open relationship with [Notre 

tion. "It keeps it cheaper, that's for sure,'' she said. 
As for the seeming uniqueness of being a student at two colleges, education majors said the experience was not that unusual. 
"I don't really think of them as that differ­ent than Notre Dame classes," Tanski said. 
While there arc sometimes difficulties in timing, espr.cially when students need to take the shuttle to Saint Mary's, inconve­niences are not too big a problem, the future teachers said. They are hardly the only students taking classes at both schools. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's began their co-exhange program in 1965, and since then, thousands of people have taken advantage of opportunities offered only on the other side of the road. Many Saint Marv's students take business classes and join.Notre Dame's Marching Band. while their Notre Dame counterparts cross 31 more often. The biggest reason for this is the College's education program. 
see MAJORS/page 4 

Dame student govern­ment}." she said. "At the same time, I was elected to address issues that are spe­cific to [Saint Mary's}." 
Pointing at the recent proposal to move the Keenan Revue out of O'Laughlin Auditorium, Renner said that while she welcomes Notre Dame input. the decision is ulti­mately one to be decided by .,. 
t h e 


women of S a i n t Mary's. 
"[O'Do­n ogh ue] has fed me ideas, but that's s o m e -
Renner th in g I 

have to address myself if someone [at Saint Mary's] is con­cerned about the Keenan 11evue." she said. "[He] has been very concerned, and has offered a lot of sugges­tions, but it's very difficult because we represent two very distinct. different pop­ulations. That's where it starts to get difficult." 
So far, the two govern­ments have collaborated on events like the Eucharistic Congress. which came to Notre Dame earlier this month. but even in coopera­tion, Renner admits both campuses also had their own agendas. 
"Saint Mary's took on its own role," she said. 
The individuality of each campus lends itself to two unique styles of govern­ment, according to Veronica Kessenich. who serves as Saint Mary's liaison to Notre Dame's student gov­ernment. She attends meet­ings of the executive cabi­net, as well as the Student Senate. 
"Saint Mary's is a bit more laid-back and not quite as regimented, [but} both governments are structured after the same goal, and that's helping stu­den ts," she said. "But [Notre Dame uses} a gavel, and I'm sure we have one. but I don't know if we ever use it." 
page 4 The Observer . IN FOCUS Tuesday, September 19, 2000 
---=-=========-:::::::::.======================================-=====================================--=--====-----===­
Pride  made us rel1ect on ourselves, not just what Notre Dame thinks. It made us ask the qU1~s­ we're trying to send is Lhal we like to be a part or the communi­tv. but we don't nf'ed Notrn  way to be separate but r,o-exist," Koelsch said. "It can help because mavbe it shows that we  active way to be happy about Saint Mary's -a way to be proud of who we are now."  
continued from page 1  tion, 'Why am I here?"' The concept of Saint Mary's  Dame to define who we are," Koelsch said. "On Notre Dame  know we're·separate." "We don't depend on Notre  The impacl Llrn ,went has on helping students discovr.r thr.ir  
would l{O in. It kind of died out in the ca.riv 90s. but when it  Pride Day ­now celebrated on Oct. 6 to recognize the day cur­ football weekends, everyone gets together to cheer for Notre  Dame to define who we are,'' Rosenbush said. "Hut it also  evolving identity. however. will only be discovered over time.  
came in '97: I didn't really think much about it.··  rent president Marilou Eldred was inaugurated -became a  Dame football. That's their tra­dition. I have respect for Notre  allows us the chance to ask, 'Who do we want to be now?'  And while som1~ sternotypcs and rivalries will always exist. Saint  
,..  The students, however, felt dilTerently. "We'd gone through a number of generations of students that no longer understood the shared history," Hosenbush said. Under tlH\ guidance of then­student body president and vice president Niki Milos and Lori McKeough. an evening meeting in thr basement of !Inly Cross llall det(,rmint.•d a solution that would evolvr into a tradition and an idnntily-discovering jour­ney. Emily Koelsch. then a freshman. was an attendee at  yearly tradition that has grown Dame. and I have respect for into a week-their tradi­long event. tions. I'd love"Saint Mary's is moreBut while to see tradi­there are no publicly discovering its tions of our "parasite" let­identity other than the own orcur at ters being Saint Mary's."sister schoolwritten into The effect the campus to Notre Dame. " P r i d e newspaper, Day/Pride there is still a Week fwentsGeorgeanna Rosenbushneed for the have had ondirector of Student Activities day on cam-campus are Saint Mary's pus, said noticeabln. Koekh. co-organizers chairwoman of say. The wnek  Our students arc willing to take risks now that they weren't will­ing to take 15 years ago." One of those risks was the co­sponsored pep rally before the Arizona State game in 1999. when Saint Mary's culminated Pride Week by wearing blue Helles shirts to the Friday night pep rally at the Joyce Center. Th,1 public display of Saint Mary's pride was something 110.w and surprising lo onlookers. "[Leprechaun] Mike Brown came up to me al'ler the rally and said how imprnssed he was  Mary's Pride Week is a con­structive way to address them. organizers said. as long as thn primary goal -fost<'ring unity and pride ­comes lirst. "It's natural when you havP schools that are close together that you're going to have rivals," she said. "Especially when you have schools with a shared his­tory. There's nothing wrong with that. as long as it's in good spirit -I see this as a timP to celebrate being a woman's insti­tution ­to cdebrate the culture we build hr.re."  
the rneeling. "!Milos and MrKeoughl wrn~ very upstanding about .it ­they simply wanted to bre,tk down the str.rPotypC's," Koelsch said. "Them was a lot of' disrussion about what it meant to go to Saint Marv's ~ about what it meant .\o ·bl' a Saint Mary's woman The solution to the letter, the students decidc>d. was the cre­ !'ride Weck 2000. "There is a need because Saint Mary's gets overshadowed by Notn' Dame in so many ways." she said. "Through thr, commu­nity and through the stereotype that Saint Mary's women go to Saint Mary's because they couldn'l get into Notre Dame. There·s always been a connec­tion !between the schools!. but there's never been a separation.  has given Saint Ma.ry's a much­needed surge of identity, and the opportunity to discover how they arc independent from the Golden Dome. It's a cultural shift that Rosenbush has been awaiting for decades. "Students have some kind of' a sense of identity now," Hoscnbush said. "Saint Mary's is more publicly discovering its identitv other than lhe sister  that H'C got that many people to come over together." Koelsch said. "Students on this campus are more excited about Saint Mary's than ever before." The progress that event made is undeniablf'. Hosi-mbush said. "Our students would have never taken that risk 15 years ago," she said. "'The Belles· namo is a relatively new phenomenon on this campus. It's these subtle  Majors continued from page 3 Both Hoth and Cormier said that Nolre Damn would brnef'il from creat­ing its own teaching pro­ 
ation of what vvould bf'rnm1~ a tradition on campus. flanding out bluP and whit(' ribbons. scheduling spPPrhns and having Saint Marv's administrators and students speak outside of Holy Cross llall. lhP planm~d rebuttal to the lr-tt<w turned into the first  Pridr Werk is us being individu­ally proud of ourselves." The wnok. scheduled with events that promote school unity and encourage Belles athle-tic support. is in no way meant to deny the connection between Notre Dame and Saint \1arv's,  srhooi" to Notre DamP-. It's helped us start to see ourselves as an institution, and realize that talking about us being women is not a negative thing." Besides fostering pride and identity on campus. the event has also helped improve inter­ strps that build (Wery year that make a difference." On tho eve nl' Pride Wc1~k 2000, the organizers' goal is lo make sure that Pride Week becomes a visible and meaning­ful tradition for the student com­munity. Aiming for a more high­ gram. "I like Saint Mary's and I like lhP people there,'' Hoth said. "But I really think Notre DamA should have its own education program. ll would be bett.flr for thP school."  
Saint Marv's PridP Dav. "What ~P wantPd Lo sav was. 'Wt> realiz<> how much ·Notn' Dame o!TPrs us, but we want Notre l>arne to stw how much  Koelch said. Instead. the week was designed to create tradi­tions Saint Mary's can be proud of individuallv. and advertise the school's contributions to the  campus relations with Notre Dame. Koelsch and Rosenbush both said. These relationships. however. continue to evolve. "I hope thaL [Pride Weeki  profile display of events this October. community awareness is key lo achieving that goal. "People are getting used to it now," Koelsch said. "We're  But until it clo<is. thev. and future sludPnts who want to be tfrnclwrs. will drive, bike and ride to Saint Marv's and conlinun  
Saint Marv's rnn ofTPr lo NotrP Dame." Ki;tdsd1 .said. '"rhr l<'tt<>r  community. "T!rn message that I think  doesn't offend anyone -I hope they're happy that we'w found a  planning things that people will be interested in. This is an  to be students schools.  at  two  

ATTENTION OFF CAMPUS STUDENTS 


Interested in becoming off-campus senator? 
Call Judicial Council 631-4556 for 
more information by 5:00 Thursday, September 21. 

Please recycle The Observer. 
MATAP.AT 
. 

A Celebration of Traditional Quebec Performed in Spirited ~ong & Dance 
Tuesday, September 19, 2000 
7:30 p.m. Little Theatre 
Mo~D 

. k . ,r. . I ~~THE~B-­
For tic et m1 onnatwn contact ~NOnru.-• .,,N the Saint Marys College Box Office, 284-4626 

Engineering In ustry Day is Here! 
Tonight (9/ 19) Industry Day Banquet 
6:30 pm at the JACC 
Tomorrow (9/20) Industry Day CareerFair 1 Oam -4pm North Dome of JACC 
Tuesday, September 19, 2000 page 13 

_,. 
C 

ALBUM REVIEW 
New Hippos album showcases band's talent 
By TODD CALLAIS Scene Music Cri.ic 
When music fans think about the albums that they really could not stop listening to, what comes to mind? For some, great albums like Weezer's Weczer, WuTang's Return to the 36 Chambers. Moby's Play, Blink 182's Dude Ranch, and a couple more select choices make the select list. But upon one listen, music fans will be able to add Heads are Gonna Roll by the Hippos to this prized list. Some may have already heard of this punk/ska band from California, but anyone who saw them perform Lhis past summer at Warped Tour, will never forget them. The Hippos really got the crowd going and were probably the best performers of the tour. Their sound is a strange mix of Reel Big Fish. They Might Be Giants, Fountains of' Wayne and any band that sings about the confusion and frustration that guys are faced with when dealing with the opposite "Wasting My Life" with the reoccurring line "Am I wasting my life waiting for you" exemplify the album with a great rhythm and a nice flow. 

Then, if' there is any song on the album fans am guaranteed to like, it is track four, "Pollution.'' The song is about a guy trying to make a decision and his mind being too crowded to do it. The track has a subtle intensity and addictive rhythm that will mah any rock fan play it on repeat for hours at a time. 
Track seven is a cover of the Naked Eyes song, "Always Something There to Remind Me." And like most covers, it is really not any better or worse than the original, just different. What is really great about this song is that you can really hear the moog synthesizer {that's always good for a laugh). For those who honestly liked the original, this cover will 
not disappoint. For those who hated 
sex. the original, the Hippos' version may
But anyone who 

Composed of six guys, all of whom just turn opinions of the song around. sing vocals at some point on the album, wants to pick up Unlike mo_st albums that begin to die the band is extremely multitalented. something fresh, fun off at the end, Heads are Gonna Roll Mixing trombones, moog synthesizers, only gets stronger. Tracks nine, "The
and entertaining

and the occasional heavy bassline, the Sand," and 10, "Paulina," are fun album demonstrates the Hippos' wide needs to find this poppy ska love type songs that are musical range. And to top all of that, cool and definitely worth a listen.
album. 

they are just a really fun band. Track 11, "Far Behind" is another 
The Hippos get the rare seal of real standout. It talks about the frus­approval in that literally every song on Heads are tration people face when their goals aren't reached. Gonna Roll is a good listen. However, like any album, With a rhythmically challenging beat, and lines like there are certain standouts as well. Songs like "So I run away/because things aren't quite going my way" this song pretty much summarizes how most stu­dents feel during finals week and others feel at various challenging moments in their lives. 
Finally, song 13, "He Said," ends the album with a funny and yet confusing climax. The quick paced and repetitive song about an old sailor giving advice to a young boy is, in a word, comical. There is no real logic to the song, which may be why they are so similar to They Might Be Giants, but the song is still awesome anyway. 
In the music world there are financial winners and losers, and unfortunately the Hippos seem to be the latter due to a lack of promotion. But anyone who wants to pick up something fresh, fun and entertaining needs to find this album -and tell a friend about it. The band's first album Forget the World, is also highly worth checking out. 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Play justifies Mohy's rise to top oftechno/pop 
signed to Elektra records and

By JOE LARSON 
released Everything Is Wrong, an 

Scene Music Critic 
eclectic album that showcased his diverse musical talents. The albumEvery so often, a new musician comes was panned by techno-enthusiasts, 
along and so far exceeds his contempo­but was critically acclaimed in the raries that he is in a position where he is music world. either revered for his creative vision or His next album, Animal Rights, simply ignored and deemed lame. Fans was a complete retreat from techno either love their music or they just don't as Moby admittedly grew tired of understand how anvone can. pop artists jumping on the band­
Then, after this particular artist's time wagon with the "electronica" fad. is gone, and a new generation of musi­He has also released an album that ­cians rise up to be embraced or consists of his scores for motion pic­repelled, music fans go back to these tures entitled, I Like to Score. controversial figures of the past, and This brings us to 1999's release exalt them as innovators and influences on V2 Records. Plav. It consists of on the music of the current time. 18 tracks that fus~ hip-hop beats 
Musicians like Jimi Hendrix and Led with vocals lifted from blues and Zepellin have been glorified as geniuses for gospel recordings from the 1940s their contributions in the 60s and 70s. and 50s. Mobv adds on some of his Acts like Prince and Nirvana are beginning ovvn guitar stylings, and occasional­to be idolized as the innovators of the 80s ly vocals, which make this an album and 90s. that is completely original. 
But who will rise out of today's scene? In The songs tend to be a little more the future, Eminem and Blink 182 will not downbeat than conventional techno be called inventive or groundbreaking. No, or dance music, but still maintain it is the musicians you are not even quite the same energy and momentum sure you like who will be the ones called you get from those more typical genius. One of these musicians is Moby. electronic sounds. 
Moby, the electronic pop star known for his eclectic musical style, comes on strong
In 1990, Moby released his first three The songs on Play do exactly what 
with his latest release, Play.
underground techno albums which other techno artists can't do ­spavvned many international dance hits, make music that is not only good to including "Go" and "Drop a Beat" He then dance to, but also good to just sit and listen original song after hearing it Moby's way. Beethoven, composing different sounds 
to. The sam­He composes songs that take the listener together that transform into absolutely pled vocals, on an updated ride through the blues. wonderful music. He masterfully inter-the amazing Songs like "Find My Baby," "Natural weaves the completely independent worlds beats plus Blues" and "V\lhy Does My Heart Feel So of rock, techno, hip-hop, blues, soul, gospel 
Moby' s guitar Bad" reencrgize the blmis into a thumping, and rap into his songs. meld beauti­but at the same time, sad journey. Moby The musical diversity channeled from fully on Play. then brightens up into songs like "Honey" this one album is something that has never
Moby 
Moby con­and "Rodyrock," which focus on looped been accomplished this mellifluously veys c.mo­vocals and some of his O½TI blistering gui-before. It seems that each song, diverse as 
V2 Records tions in his tar work. they all are, pcrfoctly leads into the next, samples that The best song on the album is leaving nothing for the listener to do but fit so well "Everloving," which begins simply with an simply follow along and enjoy the ride. with the acoustic guitar riff. then adds the beat and So the next time some guy with an
Rating music that it then a beautiful string arrangement that Eminem poster on his wall wants to argue would actual­blends into the most emotionally powerfol about how innovative his music is, try to ly be hard to song on the album. think about that statement's validity 20 
Play 

....,...... 
listen to the Moby ~ n(!;_j_t1~t a _W,_h~ is a nw!fer.n~day .. years from now. Will it be still be true? 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 19, 2000 
OLYMPICS 
Quann, Krayzelburg swim to gold for U.S. 
Associated Prc,ss 
SYDNEY. Australia 

Lt•nny Kraywlburg fulfilled thP ambition of pan~nts who ldt thn rugg('.d UkrainP. for /\mrrira so thnir son could have a bntter life. 
Mr.gan Quann canH' doser to n~alizing her perfect race, visu­alizml time and again while in bed, stopwatch in hand. 
Ian Thoqrn took Australia for ynt another thrilling ridP with 1wery stroke. but rr.vealrd him­sdf' to be human after all. 
Th rnr swim nw rs. three poignant stori<>s, wort• linknd togrtlrnr Monday night at the Olympir pool where Krayz!'lburg did thr. 
world record from his son vir­tually every time he swims. But the father brokf1 down in tears when Im hugged Lenny after­ward, a gold medal sqw'ezPd betwer.n them. 
"We can go home now," tho father said, a tender moment that surprised r.ven Lenny. 
(Juann 's victory over lleyns was justification for all those hours spent in the idle solitude of her bedroom, visualizing lrnr perfect rac!l. 
"I havr a stopwatch in my hand. My eyes are closed,·• related <Juann. a high school junior f'rom Puyallup. Wash. "I can see the tilf's on the bouom of the pool I can tastP the water. I can hear the 
"That wasn't an easy crowd."

{1 X p O (: l e cl , 
Quann used

()uan n did thing to do to move to a 
a strong kickwhat she 

new country. They had 
to win in 1

promised, 
the guts to make that minutP., 7.05

and Thorpn 
seconds.

did something move. 
lleyns faded

dill'Pr<'nt --he 
to the bronze

lost. 
Lenny Krayzelburg behind Leise!

In anolhr.r double-gold U.S. gold medalist Jones of 
day f'or the Anrnricans, Krayzelburg overcame jitters about being a heavy favorite to win the 100-mr.ter backstroke, whilr Quann pulled off h(~r pre­dicted victory over dnf'ending Olympic champion Penny IIryns in thr. 100 breaststroke. 
Thorpe, the Australian sen­sation who had already had two golds, lost thn 200 f'r1~eslylc to Dutchman Pieter van den lloogcnband. 
Krnyzclburg followPd his parents out of the numbling Sovi<'t Union in 1989 l'or the uncnrtain hope of southern California. Lenny was only 14, an up-and-coming swimmer who far.Pd thr eventual prospect of being drafled into the armv. 
"That·wasn't an <~asy thing to do to move to a new country," Krayzr.lburg said. "They had the guts to mak11 that move." 
Oleg Krayzclburg is a gruff, demanding man who expecL-; a
-
Australia. 
An entire nation was rooting for Thorpe. the 17-yr.ar-old Aussie super­man who won his two golds in world rer.ord-setting races. Even when Van den Hoogenband broke Thorpe's 200 mark in the semifinals, it seemed a foregone conclusion that the "Thorpedo" would get it back 24 hours later. 
Van den lloogenband and Thorpe were dead-even as they made thP.ir final turn with 50 ·meters to go. The Aussie­dominate d crowd over­whelmed the hall with its sig­nature chant: "Thorpey! Thorpey!" Workers abandoned their posts. 11lling every var.ant nook of the aquatic center to get a glimpse of this phenome­non 
But the Dutchman was [lying over the l'inal 25 meters. stretching ahead of Thorpe in 
1:45.35 seconds --tying the 1­day-old world record. 
Gold 

continued from page 24 
ing in the half. play picked up. Walsh, retaining her poise while avoiding a near sack. threw a 15-yard pass to 
Scanlan for a Walsh first down. Seconds later. how1w­f' r, a pass intended for Scanlan was intercepted by Off-Campus outside line­backer RosL. 
Off-Campus offense took the field at Walsh's 25-yard lino with quarterbar.k Nicole Benjamin at the helm. With less than a minute remaining, Benjamin thrnw two incom­plete passes and attempted an unsuccessful hand-off, 
After a Marita Keane punt, Walsh took the ball at the 10­yard line. but time ran out before they could make any significant progress. 
Benjamin and running back Francesca OeLayo led the Off-Campus offonse on a long drive in the second half but Walsh safety Courtney Schaefer pickf'd off a pass lo save the shut out. 
"Courtney's interception was huge -she pulled it off right when we needed it," said BAiting. 
The Wild Women, however, were unable to take advan­tage of the opportunity. After Off-Campus squandered an interception because of roughing the passer call, Off­Campus· Erin Place intercept­ed another Walsh pass on the very next play. 
"I don't think anvone was too down about it," said Walsh's Scanlan of' the back­to-back interceptions. "It's our first gam11, and didn't prove to be costly at all." 
The clock wound down quickly from there -a little too quickly for Off-Campus' assistant coar.h Dan Laughlin. 
"OC is really just question­ing the referees concept of the clock out there," he said. "Those last two minutes, especially, rnally blew by." 
The scoreless finish leaves neither team unsatisfied, but each looks forward to better play in tonight's matches. Walsh will play Badin. Off­Campus will play Breen­Phillips. 
Farley 12, McGllnn 0 
Farley's Finest proved to be inhospitable guests on Sunday afternoon as they defeated the McGlinn Shamrocks 12-0 on McGlinn field. 
Both defenses were strong throughout the first hall'. 
On Faley's first possession. quarterback Jamie Geraci completed passes to Erica Freeburg and Beth McKay. but Geraci's next pass was intercepted by Megan Horvath. 
Mr.Glinn's quarterback, Jodie Greaney, ran the option well all day, splitting the Farley defenders and taking the ball for 30 yards on McGlinn's next possession. The Finest defense held strong, though, forcing the Shamrocks to losr, the ball on downs.. 
Farley only had time l'or three plays as tho first hall' ended in a scorelcss tir. 
McGlinn couldn't get things together offensively in the second half, and Farley took advantage of it, Geraci com­pleted a quick pass to wide receiver McKay, then ran for 15 yards on a quarterback sweep. 
After comploting a short pass to Sara Habe, Geraci J'ound McKay again in thr. end zone. Farley did not complete the extra-point pass. 
"We went down the field with confidenr.e," said Gerar.i. "We were playing really Wflll." 
Farley held Greaney and tlrn McGlinn offense to one first down on its next posses­sion. as it took the ball over near the McGlinn 25-yard line midway through the sec­ond half. 
Geraci ran the ball twir.e for 20 yards and caught senior Erica Freeburg for a five­yard touchdown pass. Farley again had to settle for six. as the extra-point attempt was intercepted. 
Despite the two intercep­tions, Farley coach Mike Hogan was very pleased with his quarterback's perfor­mance. 
"Jenny passed well all game. She was strong today," said Hogan, 
McGlinn hopes to improve its offense before its next game. 

"Our offense needs some re-tooling," said McGlinn coach Geoff Ileiple. "We need to work on a few fundamr.n­tals. then we'll be finfl." 
Badin O, Pasquirella West 0 
On Sunday evening at McGlinn field, the Badin Bullfrogs and Pasquerilla West Purple Weasels settled for a scoreless tie to open the season. 
Defense was the name of' the game Sunday as each team had more interceptions 
than  Dennis  Miller  punch  
lines  in  a  Monday  Night  
Football game.  

"Both teams had a dynamic defense that was able to sti llr. several significant drives," said fan Leon Gil. 
Early in the first hall', it appeared as if' l'W was going to scorn whon its quarterback scrambled l'or a 13-yard run. llowever, thn Bullfrogs' defensive brick wall stopped P.W.'s offensive drive. 
Later in the first half. Badin marched down the field. but the Bullfrog drive was stopped short wlrnn tlw PW defense intercepted a pass. 
The first half' ended in a tie and both tnams trind to rngroup bel'on\ starting tlw second half. 
At the beginning of' the sec­ond half. the Bullfrogs inter­cepted a pass and started a long drive. Badin quarterback Prissy Clements scrambled for a first down. The Bullfrogs were latnr stoppnd by the Weasel def'ensfl. 
Late in thn second half'. it appeared as if the Purple Weasels were going to score but an interception by Bnth Rimkus halted thn Weasnl offensive drive. With time running out. the tide was changing in favor of' the Bullfrogs. In a last minute attempt to score. the Bullfrogs threw a llail Mary pass near tho end zonn that was interc11pted by Amanda Gallen lo end the gamn. 
The final score remained 0­0 and both teams' dreams of starting the season with a win were sha:tten~d. 
"We pl_aycd OK Sunday." said Bullfrog captain Tiff'ney Colon. "Our defense played well, but our offP.nse was slow." 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 \>.rn. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, induding all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST & FOUND 
LOST ND-PU WEEKEND -OUR PURDUE FLAG WAS LOST IN THE PARKING LOT ON THE SOUTH SIDE OF EDISON ROAD. THE 6 FT. X 10 FT. FLAG WAS HAND SEWN BY MY WIFE. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. PLEASE DROP OFF AT THE OBSERVER OFFICE BASEMENT OF SOUTH DINING HALL THANK YOU VERY MUCH 
TICKETS 
WANTED ND FOOTBALL TKTS 289-9280 
SELLING NO FOOTBALL TKTS 251-1570 
VICTORY TKTS BUY-SELL'TRADE ND FOOTBALL 232-0964 www.victorytickets.com 
BUY/SELL ND TICKETS 273-3911 
FOR RENT 
ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED 
A.M. -232-2378 B&B lodging in alumni home tor ND 
PM. -288-2726 games. (219) 243-2628 or garyb@mvillage.com 
ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE  ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE  
A.M. ­232-2378  AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS  
P.M, ­288-2726  hltp://mmmrentals.homepage.com/  
email :mrnrnrenla ls@aol.com  
BUY/SELL N D FOOTBALL TIX.  232-2595  
HOME&AWAY.  
(219) 289·8048  That Pretty Place, Bed and  
NO STUDENT CONVERSION TIX  Breakfast Inn has space available  
NEEDED  for football/parent wknds, 5 Rooms  
with private baths, $80-$115,  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  
MSU vs. ND football tickets bought  Toll Road, Exit #107,  
and sold  1-800-418-9487.  
(219) 289-8048  
I have 5 bedrooms for rent in my  
Dad needs 2 !ix to Stanlord game'  nicely-decorated private home for  
Ckrosey@mindspring.com  Football weekends; less than 2  
miles nonh of stadium, continental  
2 ND/USC TIX+ Airtare  brklst included. Many happy repeat  
GOTO alumni.nd.edu/-ndc_staK  customers'  
Call Kim 277-8340.  
Paying $50.00 per ticket for last 3  
home games  2 BR, 2nd fir. Apt. 525/mo.  
No student conversions wanted  Along St. Joe River  
Incl. Water/Sec. Syst./Trash  
(219)289-8048  288-2654 or 288-2788  

• --• . • •
•-..._ ·-·--·........ 

WANTED 
WINTER BREAK/SPRING BREAK Ski & Beach trips on sale now! www.sunchase.com or call 1 ·800­SUNCHASE TODAY! 
Looking for 1 Oenterprising students for part lime computer work. Earn up to $4,000/mo. 1-888-304-0414 Lv. Msg. 
EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP­MENT CENTER PAID & VOLUN­TEER OPPORTUNITIES Earn money and build resume experience while interacting with 
· delightful young children The Early Childhood Development Centers at Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame are cur­rently accepting applications from college students for part time employment positions. At ECDC­ND, the two openings are for TTh 7:30-8:30 a.m. and TTh 11:15 a.m. · 1:30 p.m. At ECDC·SMC. the opening is for F 12:30-1 :30 p.m. If you are interested in applying, please contact Kari Alford, Program Director at ECOC-SMC, at 284­4694, or Thayer Kramer, Program Director al SCDC-ND, at 631-3344, for more information and an applica­lion. The Early Childhood Development Centers are also looking for volun­teers who enjoy young children. If you would be interested in spending 2 hours a week reading children's books, building with blocks, and singing songs with children, please contact ECDC-ND at 631-3344 or ECDC-SMC at 284-4693. 
Help' Staffer needs to rent condo/guest house/room in Pasedena, CA. General area for New Year's holi­day period (12-27 to 1 ·2) My son is marching in the Rose Bowl Parade! Would consider hosting your family for the USC2001 game, tickets included, ND fans only' 
Please email tdatnd@aol.com or call 259-7544, as tor Tina. Thanks 
NOTICES 

SKYDIVE!! Training Students for 35 Years 1 Hour North of South Bend GREAT LAKES SKYDIVERS, INC. 1-800-351-6617 
FOR SALE 
92 Dodge Spirit 4 cyl, auto, cruise low mileage, top condition 
246-9784 
PERSONAL 
WANT TO BRING YOUR HORSE TO SCHOOL? SAGEBRUSH STA­BLES IS THE PLACE. JUST 25 MINUTES FROM NOTRE DAME INDOOR RIDING ARENA LIGHTED OUTDOOR ARENA SECURED TACK ROOM FLEXIBLE RIDING HOURS CLEAN SAFE ENVIRONMENT FAMILY OWNED 
SAGEBRUSH STABLES BOARDING LESSONS HORSE­BACK RIDING 
55251 SAGE Rd. 219-232-3361 
SPRING BREAK 2001 Jamaica, Cancun, Barbados, More. Hiring Campus Reps 2 Free Trips! Free Meals-Book by 1113. Call 1-800· 426-7710 or sunsplashtours.com. 

Tuesday, September 19, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 


WOMEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
Off Campus, BP set for battle 
By BRIAN KRONK, KATIE 
HUGHES and MATT 
HARRIGAN 
Sports Writers 
A nrw rivalry bt>gins tonight 
al 7 p.rn. at Stepan Fields 
whrn thr Banshens o[ Brnen­
Phillips square off against th!' 
Off-Campus team. 
Wilh four players who livf'd · in BP last vear. Off-Campus 
s~\OS the giune as a big one 
af't(1r a frustrating tie with 
\Va!sh Sunday. 
"I think tlwre wrrf' a lot of 
kinks in our offense that need­
rd to br worked out." said Off­
Campus r.aptain Marita Knane. 
"Although our tr.am is all vct­
!'rans. it w,1s our first linrn 
n·ally playing together. Now 
that we havr all the cobwebs 
out of n11r system. Wf''rn look­
ing to make things happen 
against BP." 
K11ann hop1's thfl def'ensn will 
again come up strong against 
BP. al'ter a solid perf'ormanr.f' 
Sunday that Keane says kf~PL 
hP.r team in the gamfl. 
"Thi' interception from cor­
nerbark Erin Pia('.(: came at an 
integral limee lat<' in the second 
half. but our offense. who had 
befln struggling all day. was 
not able to r.apitalizP on the sit­
uation." she said. 
BrePn-Phillips. mPanwhile. 
enters the game untested. hav­
ing not played a game yet this 
sieason. 
BP enters the season with a 
brand ne,v quarterback. Katie 
McFarland. and only a few 
rnturning players. 
Bl' (·aplain Jenny Wahoske 
hopes the late start to the sea­
son will help the inexperienced 
tPam get a little more lime 
,·oming together beforP 
tonight's match-up. 
"We'll gel. in an extra few days of good, tough practice." she said. 
Wahoske sees this upcoming season as an intoresting one. 
"We' re really excited tu see what we ran do this vear. but wn're not making an)' predic­Lions," Wahoske said. "It's pretty much a rebuilding year." 
BP r.oacb Corey Timlin agreed. 
"Last year we were more experiencod. but more compla­c<• nt," he said. "I think this yioar we're much more cxr.itcd and ready to go» 
Both team captains sec this as an exciting game. 
"We're rn111ing off a fruslrat­ing tie and we'rr. looking for a big win." Keane said. 
Farley vs. Pasquirella West 
Two years ago, Farley knocked Pasquirella West out of the playoffs, crushing hopes for a Purple Woasr.l appear­anco in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Farley set the tone for anoth­er drive lo a r.hampionship game on Sunday, knocking off McGlinn 12-0 while PW tied Badin in a scoreless game. 
"Our game on Sunday was a battlfl of the defenses. It was pretty good for our first game. We have lots or new freshmen on o-line," said PW captain Amanda Gallen. "Our fresh­man quarterback, Leslie Schmidt. played in a league in high school, so she has some experience." 
Farley is fairly confident about !.onight's gan1e, which will be at 8 p.m. at Stepan Field. 
Captain Rebecca Glatz said, "We may have had a sub par season last year, but it' PW isn't worriPd about their game against us. they should be because we !.ook care of McGlinn on Sunday. and PW is just our next step on our way to the Stadium." 

Walsh vs. Badin 
The Bullfrogs of Badin face the Wild Women of Walsh tonight at 9 p.m. at Stepan field. 

The Wild Women of Walsh . arc coming off a tie with thfl Off-Campus team on Sunday. 
Walsh seemed to be perma­nent residents of the semifinals until thev experienced an off year last season. Arter Sunday's tie. this group knows they have what it takes to res­urrer.t the power of the Wild Women. but they still realize that ono game doesn't guaran­tee a great year ahead. 
"Badin is usually a pretty well-coar.hetl team," Walsh captain Melissa !3eiting said. "They'll give us a good game. We need to come out focused and let our offense put up some points. Hopefully our defense r.an keep them sr.ore­less." 
The women of Badin are coming off a playoff season and a 0-0 tie with Pasquerilla West on Sunday. Low-scoring games like this usually suggest strong defense. so the Bullfrogs look to tame Walsh's Wild offense this evening. It will take some discipline to overcome a focused team like Walsh. but the confident Bullfrogs hope they can take advantage of some of the opponen!.s' set­backs. too. 
"I think we'll do well. I'm actually friends with Walsh's quarterback and she's hurting a little bit," Badin r.aptain Tiffanv Colon said. "That's a point we might need to r.apital­ize on." 
The William and Katherine Devers Program in Dante Studies in conjunction with the Medieval Institute 
j11)
presents: 


{ik,,, Visiting F.u.,.,,.,,·, ..
•.·-,,.·.,.1 

1:111!!(!9>· 1i:> 

1
b.,u•.,..·,.','.i.·,'.=,.1,: .•...•.'.k.:.·::,.r:,.:'.,i.•,··',:···\,,.:,!,':,1,.. rofessor in
..~.•.,=q,:.%:!···i' .. 
~.. , • 

\~,:~ thel~~!I~artment ~,,_:'ifii' :sda %,i~s/e' teJMl.fer 20 ~ 4·45pm 
•ew~~~;:;~1lr ,, · 

..,.,,,,,,,,;''\)~i!/A\fk. Department of Special Collections 
-,~~~~~~Hesburgh Library 
Th;\xtun.: is free and open to the public. for further information contact the Devers Prngram in Dante Studies at (219) 631-5610. 

MEG KROENE:Rifhe Observer 

Sophomore defensive end Ryan Roberts pressures Drew Brees in Notre Dame's 23-21 victory over Purdue Saturday. 
Roberts 
continued from page 24 
Roberts has been a key cog in the Irish defense which stifled the Boilermakers and slowed up the 'Huskers. Notre Dame's defense has remained strong despite playing the majority of every game. 
"We're playing really good team defense and we're on the field a lot, so that's what it takes -for everybody, not just the starters, but the backups. too, to step it up, and that's what's happened the first couple games," Roberts said. 
While Roberts had seen action as a reserve last year, he had never been faced the scrutiny that accompanies being a starter. Yet Irons knew all along that his replacement would come through for the Irish. 
"I had full confidence that he could get the job done no matter what the other team threw at him," Irons said of Roberts. "He's proven that he's able to play at this high level and beyond." 
Those on the outside always suspected Roberts would become a big-time Division I player. USA Today selected him as an honorable mention All­American his senior year of high school. but the much-acclaimed athlete thought he might focus more on academics than athlet­ics in college. 

"I didn't know if I wanted to go away from home," said Roberts, a New Jersey native. "Thfl academics were a much­larger portion of my decision than actual football. It wasn't always Division I schools in foot­ball; there were Ivy Leagues for a long time. too. But then I decided I really wanted to play football and wanted to challenge myself that way." 
Notes: 
. Junior tailback Terrance Howard, who plays a reserve role behind sophomore Julius Jones and junior Tony Fisher, was excused from Monday's practice at his request to consid­er his position at Notre Dame. 
"He was here earlier, and I gave him some time to think about his situation," head coach 
Bob Davie said following Monday's practice. 'Tl! probably know more [Tuesday]." 
Fisher. who is Howard's roommate, was not worried about the situation. 
"He'll be at practice [Tuesday]," Fisher said. 
. Irons. who separated his shoulder during the Nebraska game, will have orthoscopic surgery Wednesday morning to repair the damage. 
Irons will miss the remainder of the season. 
If you are interested in representing Notre Dame at your high school over fall break or Christmas break, you will need to attend an information session on Tuesday, September 19 or Thursday, September 21 at 7:00 pm in 155 DeBartolo. 
Questions: E-mail Mike at Seeley.4@nd.edu 
Thank You! The Admissions Office 
,.. 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September I9, 2000 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish host Vikings in non-conference showdown 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Spans Writt.•r 
Hiding high on a :~-0 shutout of Big hast rival Syracuse. tlw Notn1 Damr mPn ·s soccer ganw must shift gpars a bit today as non-rnnfcrPncP nppon,~nt Clev<'land Statr visits Alumni Firld. With two rritiral Big East gamPs on tlw horizon. hi>ad rnarh Chris Apple has his hands full krrping his tram f'ocusf'd on tlw Vikings ancl not looking ahNHI to ganws against S<>ton I !all and Conrwcticut this WP1>kP11d. 
"You rnnw off a big important ganw against Syranisn and a victorv and it's a Big [!a.st win tlwn vou 1·onw bark honw and play c:lrvcland Slat!'," LhP lirst­ynar lwad coach said. "To rrgain that lwightencd level of inwnsily and focus against an out of confor!'JH'P oppont>nt this wrck with exams and all the utlwr things going on is dcfi­nitf'ly a cha!kngP." 
Dt'spite thn sPemingly biggt'r ganws lalnr in the week. Irish captain llu:;tin Pridmore said the 2-2-1 Irish arP not looking past llw 1-3-1 Vikings. 
"I think it's a littlP tough lnol to look past Cleveland Slctte] but evPryone is rnal!y just for.used on one game at a time." tlrn strnior midfielder said. "It might be in thr. bar.k of pcoplp's minds but I don't think it is rnallv a factor. Evnrvone is just l'ocu<i'Pd on {today's! game." 
The 3-0 victory against Syracuse showcased tlw r.om­plr,te Irish offonse for the first tinw this vear. Eri<'h Braun retur1wd to the Irish attack «l'hor missini the first !'our ganHis with a hamstring injury. Thr 1999 13ig East rookiP of tlw vnar makns tlw entire Irish ;,rrrnsP more dangProus. according to .l\pple. 
"lfo makes playors around him bt'tlrr and he makes oppo­1rnnts worrv about him so much that mayh·P they don't worry about Chad Hilev. Dustin l'rid more or Griffin. 1lowai-d ... ApplP said. 
Tlw sophomore picked his first point of lhe season when Pridrnort~ punched back a rnbound off a Braun shot. Pridmort', senior Connor LaHosP and freshman Chad Hilev <'ach scored thPir firsl goal; of Urn s<1ason in Braun's dcibut. 
The Irish pieked up their third shutout of the season against. the Orangenwn. Last yrar tlw Irish held tht, Vikings to jusl two shots in their 1-0 victorv. Pridmore said the 2000 defe~se is even better than 1999. 
"I think this year's defense is 
' 
• ~7\ 
,::.•~\[Y1i:1t:7 
• ·N+ ~,·•·•·•·~•,•,•.,.:,,•,s•, 7.f'-....,.•.~•.,.--'1 
•--... ••··. !:.. .. 

actually a lot stronger," he said. "This year's d0fense plays together as a group a lot better than last year's defense did It's more of u stronger unit as opposed to last year's defrmSl'. Last year's defense was good bul this year·s is oven bPtter." 
The C!Pveland StatP offense in improved compared to lasL year as well. First-year head coach Pt>tf' Curtis brought in six intrrnational players this year. This new blood has alrPadv greatly improved the offense·. The Vikings havn scored 01w goal in Pvrry game so far this season. In 1999. Cleveland StatP was shut. out 13 tim<'S and scored more than one goal only 
oncn. 

"They are supposed to be a pretty creative attacking team." Pridmore said "They havP a lot of' foreign player:; so it's a lot differnnt team than last vear. But as long as our defensf! ·stays strong like last year we should be fine if tlw offense kePps cre­ating opportunities." 
The 7 p.m. game tonight at Alumni Field kirks off a five­game homcstand for the Irish. 
" 

While TIAA-CREF invests for the long term, it's nice to see performance 
Checkout

like this. 
.. other account 
performance
1;on th.e Webi 





TIAA-CREF has delivered impressive results like these by combining two disciplined investment strategies. 





CREF GROWTH ACCOUNT3 • 





.. 

In our CREF Growth Account, one of many CREF vari­
26.70% 

27.87% 
26.60% 

able annuities, we combine active management with 
•··· 

enhanced indexing._ With two strategies, we have 
1YEAR 
SINCE INCEPTION
5YEARS 
4/29/94
AS OF 6/30/00 
6/30/00

two ways to seek out performance opportunities­
... ··•··

helping to make your investments work twice as hard. 






This approach also allows Combine this team approach with our low expenses
EXPENSE RATIO 


us to adapt our investments and you'll see how TIAA-CREF stands apart from 
to different market the competition. Call and find out how TIAA-CREF
INDUSTRY
CREFGROWTH 
AVEMGE
ACCOUNT 

conditions, which is can work for you today and tomorrow. 
especially important during 
volatile economic times. 
2.09%2
0.32%1 


ii 
Ensuring the future 

1 800.842.2776
for those who shape it."' 

www. tiaa-cref. org 

For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest 1. TIAA-CREF expenses reflect the waiver of aportion of the Funds' investment management fees, guaranteed until July 1, 2003. 2. Source: Morningstar, Inc. 6/30/00, tracking 939 average large-cap growth annuity funds. 3. Due to current market volatility, our securities products' performance today may be less than shown above. The investment results shown for CREF Growth variable annuity reflect past performance and are not indicative of future rates of return. These returns and the value of the principal you have invested will fluctuate, so the shares you own may be more or less than their original price upon redemption. • TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the C~EF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities. • Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements. • TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities. • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. • Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2000TIAA-CREF 08/03 

Tm:sday, SepLember 19, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
,... 

MEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
Schmutzler's interception propels Juggs to victory 

"Our defense did a great job." passing game. allowing us to By ANDREW SOUKUP, 

said Knott co-captain Brian focus on shutting down their 

JOHNNY LIETNER and 
Pawloski. "They played solid for running. We have some things to COLIN BOYLAN 

thr ,mtire game." work on offrmsivelv. but f think Sporr, Wri tcrs 
Knott got on th1: board -first at we'll be a good team." the 1rnd of the first quarter. "We were pretty lucky to get Facing fourth cl own on its own out with a win." Pawloski said-.

Brian Schmutzler ran now cel­20, Fbher center Matt Beach "Although our defense played
P.bralP. 
snapped the ball over punter Joe great, our offense didn't executeSchmutzler played a key role Palermo's head. Palermo chased verv well. vVe still have a lot to

in Knott's 5-0 win over Fisher on tlw ball down and kic:ked it out work on." 
Sundav. but the freshman cor­nr.rba(:k was nearly thr. goat or the back of the end zone for a safely. putting Knott up 2-0.
thP. ganw. Zahm 42, St. Ed's 0 
Schmutzler pickf'd o!T Fishrr Aftrr Sr,hmutzler's intrrcrp­A contest that appeared to be 
quartf'rback Byron L,wulkich's tiou and subsequent penalty, shaping into an intense defen­Knott took over al the Fisher 45. 
p,lSS lat,~ in the first half and sive struggle early on turned into
Quarterback Mario Suare,. who

lfow down the sideline (J5 yards a rout under the weight uf four for an apparPnt tmwhdown. 13ut was 3-for-6 passing. hit wide srcond-half Zahm tourhdnwns. rnceiver Brian Pawloski for a l5­
th1i rnforl'P penalized Zahm quarterback Dan Burke
yard gain. tho longest play of the

ScbmulZler for un-sportsmunlike hooked up with light end Chris 1·onduct and wavr.d ot'f the dav for Knott Bystr.dt for two scores and
With time winding down in the

touchdown. ruling that the rushed for a touchdown on a 
pr>nalty should bP assessed at first half, kicker Kevin Ileferrnan quarterback keeper. Runningbooted a 35-yard field gmd that
thP spot of thr foul. back Lawrence Santiago added 
On thr. ensuing drive. Knott just barely cleared the uprights. two scores on the ground toputting the Juggs up 5-0. 
ha.d to settlr for a field goal. keep Zahm in cruise control. 
"Mistakes killed us," said

"As I was running down the "We had a good game against sidPlim~. I put my hand up in the Fisher co-captain Oean Korolis. a tough opponent." said coach
"We beat ourselves in the first

air and started whirling it Jerry fitzpatrick. But it was plagued by missed
half."

around. and when I got about That was perhaps an under­tackles throughout that led to its
Fisher mounted a last-ditch

fivr yards out, I stuck thP ball statement as Zahm utilized all of demise.
effort in the final quarter.

out," Schmutzler said. "I proba­its weapons on offense. It relied The brightest moment for St.
Lcvulkich, who was 5-for-12

bly deserved the penally. but I on deep post patterns, bruising Ed's came when linebacker Mike 
with one interception, found

didn't agree with h()W it was car­inside running and even some Garafola leveled a Zahm defen­wide receiver Steve Doherty for
ried out." option plays on offense. sive lineman who made a ques­
a 25-yard completion. A late hit

"The penalty occurred during Defensivelv, Zahm took advan­tionable hit on Greene.
penalty moved the ball to the

the play," said interhall football tage of St. Ed's mistakes to pro­Although the hit earned St.
Knott 35. 

commissioner Jeff Walker. duce points of its own. Zahm's Ed's a 15-yard unnecessary
After Allen dove over the

"Since it was a live ball situation. final score came on an intercep­roughness penalty, it produced
Fisher line to convert a crucial

the officials were correr,t in tion return for a touchdown. cheers from the fans. 
fourth and one, Levulkich again

marking the penalty from the It was a bit more difficult to Most of St. Ed ·s mistakes
connected with Guett, who fin­

spot of the foul." find positives on the other side of seemed to stem from a lack of 
ished with four receptions. for a

Thc game was marked by the field. An inexperienced St. quality practice time together,
15-yard gain, giving the Wave

offonsive misc:ues. All f'ive of Ed's offensive line rarely gave rather than a lack of talent. 
first and goal from the Knott 9. 

Knott's points came off fisher quarterback Tim Greene time to Zahm offensive lineman Pete
But after Allen -who carried

mistakes. while Knott had diffi­throw the ball. Bunning backs Henning agreed. 
the ball 13 times -ran for a

rulty moving the ball in the sec­Ernesto Lacayo and Judson "They were definitely better 
om"J-yard gain. L1wulkich threw

ond half Penton were often hammered than the final score indicated,"
three incomplete passes and the

On thP S\!cond play from bP.hind the line of scrimmage. St. he said.
Juggs took over on downs.

si-rimmagP. Fislwr tailback Zach Ed's defense began the game on However that won't do muc:h 
"l thought our del'ense did a

Allen was hit hard by safety a high-note. intercepting one of for St. Ed's pride if they can't 
grr.at job today." Koralis said.

Jonathan Smith and fumbled thr. Burke's passes in the end zone. perform better in the upcoming
"The secondary took away their

ball. \Yhich Ed Foy n•rnwrPd. weeks. 
the Carroll front eight and failed to convert on fourth down. 
On their second offensive opportunity, Carroll's freshman quarterback. 
Mike Demunic completed a 40­yard bomb to Kraig Kottemann. Several plays later. however, Demunic misfired on a route over the middle and was inter­cepted. 
Siegfried and Carroll traded possessions before Siegfried quarterback Rob Plumby con­nected to receiver Tim Curran over the middle, setting up a 46­yard field goal attempt. Captain Peter Aguiar's kick was blocked to end the half at 0-0. 
After a first half dominated by defense, the Ramblers came out ready for action at the outset of the second. Siegfried started with the ball and moved 65 yards in four plays. a dynamic combination of running and passing that culminated in a 15­y a rd touchdown scamper by captain Travis Smith. The Ramblers' lead of six quickly doubled, as they stopped the Carroll offensive unit and went right back to their potent run­ner, Smith. 
This time he took a sweep around the right end and did a whirling dervish act that found him in the end zone 40 yards later. After a blocked extra point attempt, the Ramblers felt confi­dent with a 12-0 lead heading into the fourth. 
Offensively, Carroll attempted to close the gap with fireworks of their own; although their offense, and in particular versa­tile quarterback Demunic, showed streaks of inspired play, the disciplined defense of Siegfried appeared able to exploit Carroll's lack of experi­ence. 
After an interception by cap­tain Peter Aguiar, the Ramblers' offense sought to end the game with a !.nal score. Once more, Smith was happy to oblige. tak­ing a Plumby handoff 45 yards to pay dirt 
An extra point gave Siegfried a 19-0 lead, a score that held for the remainder of the game. 
"The second half was a whole different game," Carroll captain Geoff Polk said. 
Smith, whose three touch­downs alone totaled 100 rushing yards, attributed Siegfried's strong second half showing to good conditioning and team­work. 
"I wasn't sure how the young guys would react [after half­time]," said Smith, "But they came through. We were able to knock them off of the ball." 
·································································-· 
ND vs. MSU Bus Trip September 23, 2000 

·····················-······················· 
Bus departs from Stepan Center at 9:30 a.m. on Sept. 23. Bus leaves MSU 45 minutes after 
the game ends 

Cost is $25.00 and includes round 
trip bus transportation to Spartan Stadium in East Lansing, Ml 

Tickets go on sale Sept. 15 at LaFortune Student Center Info Desk and Box Office. ND/SMC/HC::: students may urchase two tickets with two 1D's 

"Obviously it was dis­appointing, but hopefully we can work on some things in practice and play with a little more intensity next week," said St. Eds receiver Charlie Prisco. 
Siegfried 19, Carroll 0 
After a start that had all the hallmarks of a defensive struggle, the Siegfried Ramblers offense broke loose in the second half. The Carroll defense, after a stellar first half of play, surrendered three touchdowns in the sec­ond half en route to a 19-0 loss to Siegfried, led by a trio of captains who made pivotal plays on both sides of the ball. 
The game failed to start on a tenuous note for Carroll Hall. New jer­seys for the team arrived a bit behind schedule, delaying the kickoff for a couple of minutes. Despite quite literally suiting up on the run, however, Carroll imme­diately demonstrated that the Vermin, after a two-year hiatus from interhall play. am no ordinary expansion team. 
Carroll failed to move the ball to open the game, then suffered a blocked punt at the hands of a barrage of Siegfried rushers. Despite their exceptional field position. however, Siegfried was stunted by 
, the aggressive play of 
. -­

_I 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 19, 2000 
A, 
Blue 
continued from page 24 
all <lay. rnmpart>d it lo "going against Handy Mo,;s." 
Al thP b,~ginning of the half, Ostic'.k haulrd down a 42-yard bomb from Collingham, shed two Lackli'rs. and was finallv tahn down al Lhc 16. Arte;· somt> tough running by Hoodhous1• and junior fullback Brnndon Ntrnnink. Boodhous11 talliPd six points f'or Alumni on a 3-yard touchdown scamper. Nunnink conn,wtnd on thn nxtra point atl.Pmpt. 
Tlw play or .-\lumni's lint' was dominant all day. as thPy contin­uPd lo open up holes for Boodhouse to run through all day and gaw Cottingham ph•nty of' time to pass the ball. 
O'Ncill"s defense playPd wPII all dav with som11 huge hits, but Alum;1i's llrrn play eventually won• it down. i\!-i the game wore on. tlwy gave up some big plays. 
Thfly spent a great dnal of tinw on tlw f'iplcf as /\lumni's dPl'Pns<i ht'ld ()'!\Pill to less than IO yards of total offPnsf' !'or thr> 
ganw. 
Dillon 14, Stanford 0 
Only on(' football gamP on c,Lmpus last wcP-kend had the pow<'r to captivatn a national ­p<•rhaps worldwidP -audiPnl'P. 
That bPing said. llillon llall's 14-0 lriumph against Stanford I!all Sunday al Strpan ffolds kl't no fan unsatisfiPd. 
01w rnarh. hownvt•r. lrft tlw fiPld with a bad tastP in his mouth. 
"Our dPl'PnSP just didn't gpt tlw brnaks it rnuld have gotten." said Stanford offrnsive coach Errol Hier. "Olfonsively WP havP a lot of room for improvnmPnt. The gamP was not a reflection of how wnll Wf~ c·an play." 
That room for improv8nrnnt was shown on Stanford's initial possPssion of thP game. Dillon's 

.I.I'.  Camardo  recovered  a  
Stanford fumb!P  on  the Grillins'  
2(,-vard li1w.  

o·n thn t'nsuing drive Dillon snnior fullback Jason Visnnr rumbled for 25 vards on three carril\S to takn thP Big H8d to thr. Stanford I-yard line. After two rushin~ attPmpts by Oillon ll'ft th,~ ball just outside the onr. junior quarterbaf'k Tayt Odom found junior tailback Chris Crane in tlw Pnd zone [or the first touchdown of' th1• g-ame. 
:\ qu1~sti11nablr holding call on tlw 2-point conv1'rsion negated Dil Ion's scorP and l'orced Dillon to altempt a 30-yard extra point. The kick sailed wid1~ lPf't and Dillon lf'd 6-0. 
Folfo.,ving two ronsccutivr thrl'P-and-out posSf'ssions. Stanford had its biggest scoring opportunity wtwn a poor punt n'sultr•d in rixrfdh·nt field posi­tion for tlw Griffins at tlw Dillon 
42. Aft1w rnnwrting on a critirnl fourth and 1. Stanford found itsPIJ' with a first and goal oppor­tunity at thr Dillon 8-yard !inn. 
An inromplrtr pass on first down and tlrn thrnr subst>qtwnt runs l'ailPd to gPt lhP {irif'fins inside• lhr Big Hcd 5-yard linP. Ttw tPams WPnl into halftinrn with Stanford trailing (1-0. 
"I W,LS rt>allv imprnssod when w,~ wcrl' ablP -to rnakl' tlw stand wlrnn tlrny W('rc able\ lo get llw ball to tlw 5 and w,• held them !without any points]." said Visncr. 
Thi\ serond half saw both dofonses rontinue tu win the battles in the trenchm;. 
Dillon SPnior .Joe Parker had a critical sack on third and 9 to fore,~ Stanford to punt from its own 35-yard line. f.reshman !lick llastv blorked the Griffin punt lo set up lhe Big Hed offons,i at tlw Griffin 20. 
Th!' Stanford def'emm, howcv-er. stood strong and hrld Dillon the shutout. Camardo was also yard pass from quartnrback scoreless. an intt\gral part of the defense. Mark Berndt to rnceiver Mikn 


Thf! Big Hect dnfonsn provnd recovering the fumble and con­Hiley put the Manor on tlrn just as sturdy. holding the tributing several tackles. Knights' 28. Morrissey junior Griffins to thrnP-and-out and Whilo Stanford is still trying to tailback Edward l!Prnandez t'orcf~d anothnr punt. put somn points on Lim board. then raced passed tlw del'ensP 
Dillon took over in Stanford Dillon hopes to rnmain unde­for 28 yards and a Manor touch­wrritory and marched toward feated nr.xt week when il l'aces down. thf! end zo1rn. After a fourth off with Keenan. After forcing Kf\nnan to a down conversion by Visncr "I am hoping the defnnse con­three-and-out on the next pos­movPd thn ball to the Grifl1n 2. tinues to play like it did last session. Morrissey took over at Odom kept the ball on an option weekend," said Odom. "But their own 49 with a 1:27 left on play and scored to make it 12-0. offensively. we are not nearly the clock. However. penalties Visner ran in the ensuing two satisfied." crushed the chance of a point conversion attempt and Morrissey comeback and Brian the Big Red led by the cvnntual llotze interr.eptc~d a passnd
Keenan 14, Morrissey 6 
winning margin of 14-0. intended for Hiley ensuring a
It was just business as usual
"Offonsivelv. l was kind of dis­Knenan victory.
for the Keenan football team
appoint(~d with our overall per­Everything seemed to be
last Sunday. On a warm. sunny
l'orman ce," said Odom. "But working for Knenan in the first
September afternoon the 
everv once in a while we will half. The scoring began with an
Keenan Knights continued their
nPect" to jump on Vis' shoulders acrobatic catch by John Hussy
recent dominanc8 of interhall
and have him carry us like he from quarterback Billy Elsworth
football with a 14-6 vktory over
did." on second and goal from the 2­
Morrissey Manor.

Dillon's offensive firepower yard line, followed by a 2-point
Morrissey put up a coura­
cannot all be attributed to conversion giving Koenan the 8­
geous fight in the second half,
Visner however. 0 edge.
but Keenan was just too much.
Crane. Odom and Camardo all An unstoppable offrmsive line
After trailing 14-0 at the half
contributr,d offensiv8ly. combined with tho usP of' three
and exchanging a series or
Defensively. Parker chipped in different running backs dictated
punts with the opposition in the
with the sack and llasty added the rest of the first half Kefman
third quarter, the Morrissey
two more to lcad the Big Hed to offense. Craig Murray. Brian
offense finally came alive. A 27­

: _;;~ 1 
Kunitzer and Tommy Carr !Pd a forocious running attack. but tlw rnal story was thn offPnsivn line. 
"We had a strong effort today and our ol'fPnsivn line playPd extrPmely WP!!." raplain I!Prb Giorgio said al'tc r the gam,~. "Everything wn wantrd to run in the first hall' sfrnmed to work. Wr need to get togethnr and play four quarters. We need to gel better wnrk to week." 
After a Morrissey botchPd punt in the sncond quarter. Keenan tailback Murray scam­pered 8 yards for a touchdown. Although the 2-point conversion f'ailrd. 14 poinLi; was all Kernan nended to hold off a pesky and hungry Morrissey squad. 
Despite the victory, Keenan still feels it has a lot of work to do before next week. 

"We came ,iut and played good in the first half." quartrr­back Billy 
Elsworth said. "During the second half wn fell apart. WP nRod to put a whole gamP together if' wn are going to bPat Dillon n8xt w1~ek." 


t....................,.........................:! 

We have TONS of posters, 

regular and subway size, to decorate your roomf 
o\.=­

• • • • • • • • • • • • • . . . . . •• • • • I e t • t •• • • e • e e e e e • e t e e e 1' • 
! . ~t-$2.00 OFFi . : ~ Posters : 
: fflUS1C (Sale items excluded. Expires 10-10-2000.) : 
. .
orbitrecords.com .........................,. ......................~ 
orbitused.com 


Tuesday, September 19, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
IRISH INSIGHT 
Irish women gunning for top ranking in new poll 


D 11 
l1TUCKEB ALAN INC. 
BUSINESS AND LITIGATION CONSULTING 
1 
1 
·Learn Abouf:OpPort_u_n-it-ie-s for ccounting & Finance Major in Litigation Consulting at 
TUCKER ALAN 

Presentation: Tuesday 9/19/00 Center for Continuing Education 
Room 208 1st Round Interviews 10/2/00 (Biddin Schedule O ens -8/31/0 
llev. want to lrnar a sP-crPt'? Ok. (omf' r.loscr. Heady for this? The most succnss!'ul athlntic t<'am rrt Notrr Danw dcrns not do battle in thr· hous<' that Hockne built. nor doPs ii 
Kevin Berchou

rnsidfl in tlw build­ing named 
sports writer 

t'or Edmund P Joye('. 
No my f'riPnds. dPspitr Nir.k Sr.Ha's now golden toe and Troy Murphy's AII-Amt'rican pres­Pncn. tlw besl l<',tnl under tlw donw is not football or men's hoops -indePd therr are no mr·n on this tnam. 
The Notn, Dam<' women's soc­cer l!~am is th<' bPst on campus. By far. After dispatching buth tlw previously undef'eatnd Washington l luskies and Portland l'iloLs the Irish arc 7-0. and arn on thn wirgr of bPing ranked Nc>.1 in the countrv. 
When the polls am rel<'ased lat.m· this WPf'k. th<' Irish ,vom(,n will rn·cupy a spot unscmn by the football team for scwen yPars. and unseen by thr. basketball t0am in. wPll, almost forpver. Tlw Irish wonwn will br. at tht' top. 
It's not that llw football team isn·t grnat. Tlwir rerent success has producPd two scintillating games in surression. it's just that tlw i\otrP Damr. womr.n thrill r•vpry tinw thPy take the lif\ld. 
I ran hear thn critics now. CTV­ing blasphemy. but I assure yo~. tlrn Notre Dame women arP just that good. No longAr is this an institution known only for thP nation's most storic>d football tPam. it's also resp!\C:ted as housing quit(i possibly tlw best women's sorc1\r program in the land. 
Consider this. After finishing second in the polls last ye11r. the Irish graduated three t\11­Amcricans. This year was sup­posed to be a season of transi­tion. Don't think so. The lrisl1 don't rebuild, they reload. And they'vr. stockpiled a potr.nt arse­nal. 
Head roach Randy Waldrurn is a better recruiter than DaviP or Doherty ever dreamed of bring. His efforts landed such stars in the making as Handi Scheller. Amanda Guertin and Amy Warnf'r. all of'whom have mude an impact as freshmen. II' \Valdrum keeps this up. tlw next honrn for the women's S()(:r:er team might well be calle1d the housP. that Handv built. 
"I think a lot ()[ people count­ed us out," Waldrum said in the sky tone of a man aware of how good his team is. 
Still not convinced? Think soc­cer is boring'? I'll admit. I once did too. but now I'm the first orrn in line to get se11 Anne Makinen. She is, after all. col­lege so<'cer's best player. 
Soccer is rarely a game of score one and be done for these girls. They hit the back of the net in bunrhes. manv of their tallies spectacular in. nature. It might bP sophomore Ali Lovelace spinning and shooting in one grar,cful motion, or it might be Makinen booming a free kick with a sniper's accura­
cv. It doesn't matter. It's all c~citing and it's all done at the highest possible level. 
Makinen is so good she's played against Mia Hamm as a member of the Finnish National Team. Those who watr,h Warner move arc convinced she could give Getherall a run for his job as punt returner, while others are r.ertain that goalie Liz Wagner blocks shots with every bit of authority as Murphy. • 

Every once in a while. the Trish women do get caught in a close game. And when they do, be assured that it's every bit as exciting as a last second win over Purduf\. Last weekend Noire Dame nipped Stanford 2-1 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 19, 2000 
Belles' nickname holds meaning for athletes 
What's in a namn? 

Shakesprar<' asked that question almost 400 years ago. So why am I asking that question now. espt\Cially in a sports col­umn'? 
Wrll. it's a qu1's­lio11 of roots. Thr roots ol' a nanw. 
HPcPntly. a stu­d<•nt al Notrl' ))anw askPd me about tlrn rnots of tlw nanw "Hrlles," th<' Saint Marv's mascot. That ~vas a qurstion I couldn't answPr. I didn't know. 
ThPro arP n•allv a lot ol' possibilitCes wlH'll you stop lo think about it. 
Thl\rl' is tlH• possibility of' the BP-Iles 

just bring a shortoned form of the 
famous Southern BPlles. !loop skirts. 
parasols and southern gentlemen. 
Well. as much as some of us on the 
Saint Mary's campus would like to 
nrnet a nice southern gentleman, that 
idea just didn't seem to fit the bill. Thosn hoop skirts would c1)rtainly got 
in the way of the hard hitters on our 
sports teams. 
Mv roommato. who knows her French, suggested that BPllos could rnfor to thn French word that means lwautif'ul. 
Again, as much as wr would like to think that Belles was chosen because we 're all beautiful. that doesn't seem to make the cut either. I mean. sport­ing events can gr.t pretty ugly. 
Well. that !raves us with one option; the real mason for the choice of Belles as our mascot~ the Belles ol' Saint Mary's. 
So I thought a little information 

might be helpful to my fellow i3elles and to the rest of the Notre Dame community. 
For those ol' you who have not seen it, "The Bells of Saint Mary's," star­ring Ingrid Bergman and Bing Crosby. holds within it the music to the Saint Marv's alma mater. 
In • ..The Bells of Saint Mary's" thr. 
bells ring out in honor of a long-stand­ing Catholic institution that pr0ssnd tin regardless ol' thr odds. 
Thinking about it that way, what better mascot could be chosen, espe­cially l'or our sports teams'? 
Sun,, "the fighting Belles" donsn't quite instill fear into the hearts of our opponents. but it says more about thP women playing on our team than "the Dukes." "the Lions" or "the llornets" ever could. 
First of all. that name shows that we are not like other educational institu­tions. Not only arc our athletes womnn 
with dedication to school and thcir rcspectivc sports, but thry arc also women 1vvho are dedicated to God. Thr~ name is a tribute to Mary, our ath­letes' support and str.,ngth and to their reliance on lier. Tlw 13Pl!Ps of' Saint Mary's ring for IIPr. 
In addition, the lwlls in our alma mater arc calling out to tlw world. Our athletns call out to tho world as well. 
Tlrnir pride spoaks for itsr,11' and tlwy arn not afraid to share that pride. Although they arc sometimes ovrr­loohd, tlw Bolles of this Saint Marv's call out to b<' noticr.d. • 
So. the noxt limo you go to a Saint Mary's sporting C:Vl'nt and sPn the Belle !loads running around c:onsidPr tho qm,stion: What's in a namr"! 
The uiews expressed in this column are those<~{ the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe 0/1ser17er. 

ln1erfai1h Chrisiian Nishi Prayer has 

Same Awesome Prayer Same Awesome Music New Awesome Location: Morrisse}' Chagel 
EYery Wednesday @ Io p.m. MORRISSEY Hall Chapel ALL ARE WELCOME 




r 
Tuesday, September 19, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
CLUB SPORTS 
Irish water polo sweeps opponents at Toledo Invite 
weekend by sweeping all four 

Special to The Observer 
Northern Region oppont>nt.s at the Cniversity of Toledo 

Thf' m,~n·s water polo club Invitational. opened defense of its Midwest The Irish defeated Kalamazoo Conference Championship this 14-9, Western Michigan 18-10, 

Instituto Latinoamericano de Docthna y Estudios Sodales 
Dayton should provide the strongest challenge in the tour­
Informational Meeting: Wednesday, September 20 7pm CSC 
What is Ilades? 
from Ball State. The game was tied at the half', with Liza 
J.-be Ilades Seminar enables students studying abroad in Chile to examine issues of poverty, 
development, social justice, liberation theology, and the global economy from a variety of Naticchia tallying the lone goal
different disciplines and perspectives. 
for the Irish on an assist from Mike Lazinski. 
Next up for the Irish will be the 
University of Chicago on Oct. 8 at 
Stepan field. 

The Department of English Presents An Informal Talk for Undergraduates by Where can you find out more about Ilades? KATHY PSOMIADES 
Contact Jessica Gray Ugray@nd.edu) at the Center for Social Concerns 
Associate Professor of English 631-3357 
University of Notre Dame 
or Mark Farrell, Assistant Rector in Stanford Hall (Farrell. l 6@nd.edu) 
"Wm I READ "'OLo"' BooKs" 
Wednesday, September 20 7:00p.m. Gold Room, North Dining Hall 
Refreshments Will Be Served.
Isn't it time your home gave 
something back to you? 
6.9%APY' 

PRIMEquity Line-of-Credit Loan Low introductory rate! 

9 so/oAPY•
e 

Even our regular rate is hard to beat!
..,.. 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
For People. Not for Profit. 
219/239-6611 www.ndfcu.org 800/ 522-6611 

Independent or the University. . , 
•Ann.u.al Percentage Rate. Property insurance ~s rcqu.ired. N':c. :ahd 'YJth any othe-r offer. Rares subject tt> change. Consult a ta.x advisor regarding the deductability of mte~est. A balloon payment will result at maturity-After the six-month introductory period, the rate will revert to the highest 

Ball State 17-7 and Bowling al younger players bcnefitted Grnen, 14-8. Irish All-American from extra playing time. John Matt McNicholas and other lfeinlein led all scorers with 13 starters from last year's squad goals, while John Penilla found which finished seventh in the the back of the net 10 times. nation played sparingly as sever-Returning All-Conference star 
Nick Malone handed out 10 assists and reserve goalie Keith
csc 

Rauenbuehler recorded 16 
CS.NTE.R FOR 

saves.
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

This weekend the Irish will travel to Miami (OH) for Southern Conference play. Traditional powers Miami and 
nament. 
Field Hockey 
In a physically punishing and WHO can apply? 
chippy game played at Stepan field Sunday, the North Shore Club of Chicago defeated the
Students applying to partici­

Irish, 3 -1. 
pate in the Santiago, Chile 

At times, North Shore fielded 
program 

eight men with international playing experience from Pakistan, Australia, England, and the U.S. North Shore also featured rer,ent varsity players 
Pistol 
At the National Intercollegiate Pistol Championships held at Olympic Park outside of Atlanta in July, Tes Salb earned the first modal for Notre Dame in inter­collegiate pistol shooting. 
The competition in Women's Air Pistol came down to the final shot, as Salb finished second to Laura Murray of Ohio State and garnered a siiver medal. 
By finishing among the top 10, Salb also earned first-team All American honors. Her plaque is on display in Holt's Sports Recreation Center. 
Ultimate Club 
The women's squad placed seventh in sectionals this week­end, posting a 2-2 record. 
Sectionals include all teams in Indiana, Ohio and Illinois. The club dropped an 11-6 decision to Purdue, and lost to Nemesis, a top club from Chicago. Highlighting the weekend was a sweep of Indiana, 13-6 and 13-0. 
Monica Smith and Mia Stephen played a strong tandem on defense, while Karen Chu's r,ut<; to Carolyn Grimes· broakmark backhand passing led to the Irish scoring. 
The club will now prepare for the Volunteer Invitational at Tennessee. 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 19, 2000 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 

Cavanaugh knocks off Lyons 26-0 in season opener 
By MARIAH QUINN, JEFF 
BALTRUZAK and JOE 
LICANDRO 
Spcm~ Writers 
In tlw !'ace ol' Chaos. thP. Lyons t'nil11d to roar this past Sunday as Cavanaugh bPat l.yons 2b-O on a muddy McGlinn lield 
With juniors :'v1ancly Heimer and Lynn Olszowy splitting the quarterbark duti<'s, the Cavanaugh offense dominated in thP season opPnf'r for both teams. 
Olszowv r.onnectnd with f\frlissa l\1arcnttP., who had an outstanding afttirnoon, with thrnr touchdown r,atches. for tlin first touchdown early in ganw. Af'tN a 2-point convnr­sion. thr Chaos led 8-0. 
Thf'y rontinued tu build on the !Pad. scoring two morP touchdowns. with Olszowy con­nncting once again with Marcotw. and thPn with fellow quarterback Heimer, to finish thP hall' leading 20-0. The Chaos completed the scoring with a sr.cond-ha.lf touchdown, as Heim1'r found Marcotte for tlw final six points. 
Lyons' coarh Micharl Burrnndo, though a bit disup­poin tr.d with the loss, was plr.asrd with the levt>I of intensi­ty shown by the team. 
"Our girls showed a lot of hus­tle," he said. 
Thn Lyons team will work on improving execution for the next games. 
"It's a matter of getting to the open person. and of' [making the I tackl!,s... said Barrando. 
Cavanaugh·s assistant coach Terry Power vvas pleasPd with the tr,am's play. "I thought it wr.nt WPII," he said. "Wf' were aggressivP and had some confi­d1•nc1•." 
1IP rrrditPd tlw gPnnrally high levt'l of play and pn,parPdnr.ss to thP instru!'tion of head coach Tom WPilPr and oft'PnsivP coor­dinator Mario Suarez. 
Heiml'r had high hop,~s for the rest of' tlw season after the win. 
''I'm really ,ixciled l'or the rest of season because we were awesonw today," she said. 
A strong Cavanaugh defense rnmplimented the offensive play. pulling down three inter­rnptions by Allison Denhart. Bt'ts1~y Lucas and .Julie Baron. 
According to Olszowy the best part of the game was the way "wn came together as a team, and playing through the mud," referring to the celebratory slides in the mud that a few Chaos players took after the win. 
Cavanaugh's next challenge will be this Thursday evening against Pangborn llall. while Lyons will takf' on the Howard Ducks. Both games are at Stepan field. 
Welsh 29, Pasquirella East 6 
On a field one pla~er driscribed as a "swampland.'' former All-American soccer playPr Jenn Grubb powered the Welsh Family Whirlwinds to a 29-6 drubbing of the Pasquerilla East Pyros at the McGlinn fields Sunday. 
Grubb starred in multiple roles. running for one touch­down. catching another and completing a pass to Vanessa Lichon. 
Welsh coach Casey Bouton said Lhe Whirlwinds' strength is that "everyone has adjusted to the role given to them. Everyone did their part." 
Grubb was also quick to credit teammates for the win. explain­ing her team has "so many peo­ple that can play." 
Welsh was tenacious on the defensive side on the ball. putting together a vicious pass rush spearheaded by Karli Pederson and her three-sack performance. 
PE quarterback Lindsay Perisay gave her opponents credit. "They had a strong del'ense," she said. "We're a young team. Today we worked through the kinks and first game jitters." 
Welsh jumped out to a 6-0 lnad after quarterback Katin Hak hit Grubb on fourth down. PE answered back with a touch­down pass by Perisay to even the score at 6-6. 
PE moved the ball with short­er passes with reccivnrs Stacey Leicht and Judy Moran ear.h making two receptions on the drive. The Whirlwinds then scored three unanswered touch­downs in the second half'. the first two on touchdown passes bv Hak. 
"on lhP game's ['inal play, Wr.lsh captain Alison Tullis 

"Fighting Irish Spec!al" 
Sunday-Monday-Tuesday-Wednesday 
5:00 -7:00 PM 
LARGE CHEESE PIZZA $5.55 
Notre Dame Silint Mary's 271-1177 271-7272 
Monday-Thursday 11 am -1 am Friday-Saturday 11 am -3 am Sunday Noon -1 am 
•The mo•t popular # on campus" ­

intercepted Perisay on her own 30-yard line. Tullis then ,inked several Pyros on her way to the Pnd zone and a 29-6 final score. 
Despite her Leam's over­whelming victory, Grubb said the Whirlwinds are taking the season ··one game at a time." 
Perisay was optimistic about her squad. "It was a tough lirst game." she said. "Hopefully we'll sec them in the Stadium." 
Lewis 6 Howard 0 

If the first gamP or the season were a crystal ball that deter­mined the rest of the season, than the L<'wis Chicks should be well on their way to a successful season. Thanks to stifling pass coverage and relentless defen­sive pressure. Lr,wis defeated Howard 6-0 in a tight opening day match-up. 
Played on a muddy field where passing was difficult', This game proved to be a defen­sive coordinator's dream or an offensive coordinator's worst nightmare. 
Lewis scored on their third play from scrimmage with quar­terback Chantal Dealcuaz hook­ing up with speedy wide receiv­er Katie Schlosser for a 40-yard touchdown pass. Dealcuaz elud­ed Howard's rush finding the streaking Schlosser who caught the ball and let her speed take over outrunning Howard's sec­ondary for the score. 
Lewis' early score would be all thev would need as their dominating defense controlled the rest of the game. Lewis junior linebacker Becky Ward kept the Howard offense in check with constant pressure on Howard quarterback Jill Veselik. 
By flushing VesP.lik out of the pocket, Ward was able to dis­rupt the Ducks passing game and prevP.nt any significant long passes. 
"Our defense reacted to the ball very quickly the entire game," Ward said al'ter tho game. "We mwer rnally let thern get into any kind of rhythm." 
Other than Lewis' first score, Howard's defense was up to the task the entire rest of the game allowing Lewis only one more first down the rest of' tlrn game. The game went back and forth with neither team able to mount any offense until lloward's last possession. 
Despite the relentless Lewis' pressure. v,~sclik rallied her troops and lead them on a !inal attempt to score. Just wh(rn it appeared that Veselik had thrown a touchdown pass to tie the game, the play was cal!Pd back by the refernes becausP. Veselik had crossrd the line of scrimmagri bef'orn she threw. 
On lloward's nPxt possession. the Duc:ks moved the ball down lield again before Lewis sal'cty Amber Azevedo intnrceptnd a Vesclik pass and sealnd the vic­tory for the Chicks. 
Arter the game. LP.wis coach Blake Kirkman was very impressed with his team's opirn­ing day victory. 
"l was impressP.d with our dP.fense," Im said. "We set the tone early and didn't allow thPrn to scorn thP. entire ganw." 

Entry-Level Engineering Opportunities 
The Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago is one of the largest and most 
efficjent vvaste-water treatment agencies in the world. 
The District is seekin~ qualified individuals in the fields of Civil, Electrical, Environrriental. Mechanical and Structural Engineering. 
Please stop by our booth during the College of Engineerin~ Career Fair being held on September 20rb and 21 •1 and talk vvith members or our Engineering and Human Resources Departments about exciting and rewarding career civil service opportunities with the District and to arrange an interview. 'The District will be conductinf: interviews or, September 21st_ A copy of your collei:e transcript and resume arc requested-
All positions are located in the Chicago metro area at one of' our seven treatment plants or at our main office located just west of' Michigan Ave. 
lfyou are unable to attend the Career Day please call us at (312) 751-5100 or visit our website at www.m~Tdgc.dst_il.us. 
An Equal Opportunity Employ~ M/F/D 
UNIVERSITY HEALTH SERVICES 
is seeking energetic and motivated students interested in serving on the 
STUDENT WELLNESS ADVISORY BOARD 
Applications are due 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22 
For more information and an application please go to 
http://www.nd.edu/-uhs/swab/ 
1-:--:-t-::+,,,+,=-1 13 Maliciousness 

21 Washington,  
e.g.: Abbr.  
22 Usually  
23 Bandleader  
Artie and others  
24 Biblical length  
LOO  r-=+-:+=-1  28 Packs a lot in  
A L M A  ................--...,;..  G E  29 Edible 6-Down  
T  E E N  Y E S  E S T  31 Hair goop  

Tuesday, September 19, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TYLERTOM KEELEY 

THINGS COULD BE WORSE
FOURTH AND INCHES 
WHATELY 

BILL AMEND
Fox TROT 
PA1(:,E, WILi. 'YOIJ STOP PETER, CLICI< 
CLICk CLICK 

SURFIN& THROUGH THE TH•S SLOW DoWN CHANNELS L1KE THAT?! IS HOW FoR A SEC.
CLICIC 

YoV'RE DRIVING ME NUTS! To 00 I NEED To SLINK.
I 
' 



----------------------~---------------~----------------------~-----------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Genesis victim 63 "Bus Stop" playwright
1 Two smackers? 33 Symbol of sturdiness 66 Cheri of 
5 "_ la Douce" "Saturday Night 9 Is eliminated 35 Mind terribly Live"from competition 40 See 20-and 67 Dash
14 Yearn (for) 57-Across 68 Hoops
15 Contemptible 43 Hung around 
tournament org.one 44 _-de-sac 
69 Bells the cat16 Take over 45 Cutting part 70 "Auld Lang _•17 Mason's wedge 46 Q-U connection 71 Dinero18 Italian lake 48 Kind of film 

19 Hawaiian party site 50 It may react DOWN with an acid 1 _Vegas
20 1932 novel of crime and race 54 Swiss canton 2 German by 40-Across pronoun
56 Fish that's split 23 British biscuit for cooking 3 In myth she was changed into a
25 Berlin bar need 57 Fictional county, nightingale26 One-on-one locale of 
20-Across 4 From the very sport beginning27 From a personal 61 Hearty 

standpoint breakfast dish 5 Dermatologist's concern
30 Slump 62 MOMA artist 
6 Kind of vegetable

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
7 Ike's mate A J F O O T 8 Poster boy I NG E 9 Lollapalooza 
~.,,+~;;.-i 10 _ orange 11 Dawn 12 Delete 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Puzzle by Joy L. Wouk 
34 Popular fast­food chain 36 Outlining 37 Marathoner's trait 38 The "N" of U.N.C.F. 39 Unable to escape 
41 Ending with cash or bombard 
42" 
Wiedersehen" 47 Swaps 

Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address City _______ State ____ Zip______ 


49 Nile reptile 55 Where Soave comes from
50 "I swear ...!" 58 Yard sale tag 
51 Feeder of the body's organs 59 Ladd or Alda 
52 Winter sight at 60 Soave, e.g. Tahoe 64 Guy's honey 53 nous 65 "Dig in!" 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
Happy Birthday: This will not be the year to let your emotions get the better ofyou. 1iy to keep your profes­sional life and your personal life sepa· rate from each other. You will find it difficult to make the financial gains that you desire if you dwell on emo­tional matters that are out of your control You can do well if you foaJs on your goals and the opportunities that are present. Your numbers: 6, 12, 15, 33, 41, 42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Romantic involvement will develop if you take the time to nurture the rela­tionship. Trips with your mate will give you the opportunity to get to know one another better. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You 
are extremely loyal and you need a 
companion that can offer you the 
same devotion. You have been feeling 
depressed. A loving pet may be just 
wli.at you need to lift your spirits. 
0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You'll be raring to go. Take the initiative to make tlie arrangements for a fun• filled day with those whom you wish to pass the time with. You can attract admirers just by being your lively 
self.000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You 
should plan to have a get-together at 
your place. Consider a paint party 
where you supply the materials and 
refreshments and your friends supply 
the labor. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You need 
to be around people. The information 
you gather will help you take a clear­
er look at your own situation. You 

Birthday Baby: You are a proud individual who can sometimes l«;>se out because you just don't want to admit when you're wrong. Overcome this char­acteristic early in life and you will reap all the rewards you want. You are car­ing, generous and colorful and will always attract a lot of attention throughout 
your life. (Need advice? Visit Eugenia on the Web at www.astroadvice.com or www.eugenialast.com.) 
EUGENIA LAST 

should be ready to open up to your partner. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl 22): Love interests with colleagues or bosses are possible. Before getting involved be 
sure that you don't have ulterior motives. You don't need to get involved in order to get ahead. Take your time and weigh the conse­quences carefully. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept 23-0cl 22): You will have a real need to get away. Your personal life has been tiring and you should be looking at changing your surroundings. Self-awareness semi­nars will help bring you confidence. 
00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Money-making ventures appear to be favorable at this time. Inflammations, infections or minor ailments will be persistent. Take care of such matters immediately. 00000 
SAGn7ARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
You will be in the mood for love. Don't lead someone on if you really aren't sure how you feel about him or her. Honesty will keep you out of trouble. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Arguments with relatives will be aggravating. It is best not to push your beliefs on others. Problems while traveling can be expected. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Tenderness and affection will be on 
your mind. Get together with the one 
you love. Make plans that only 
involve the two of you. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Make 
love, not war. Potential violence may 
develop if you get into a heated argu­
ment with someone you live with. Try 
to control the situation by refusing to 
get angry. 00000 


PORTS 
page 24 OBSERVER 
Viking Invasion 
Cleveland State comes to 11lumni Field today lo take on Notre Dame. The Irish are coming offa 3-0 victory over the Orangemerz. 
page 16 
FOOTBALL 

Roberts takes advantage of opportunity 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Assnc1.1re Spores Editor 
Last spring. sophomore dt~l'ensive end Hyan Hobrrts didn't even knov, if he would bn abln to suit up l'or the Irish during the 2000 Sf'ason. Now he's the only starter who has rer·orded a sack in each ganw. 
A bark injury left !lobHts with srvl'ral options in the offsea­son. only mw or whirh would, in his mind, gtiaranl1\!' till' ability to play football this y1•ar. B11b1'rts said giving up football compli>tl'ly was never a possibility in his mind. llis other opLions wPrt' to !Pt the bone heal on iL" own and d1arn·p a rp1•urring injury. undnrgo a fusion surgPry that would kcr,p him out of the lineup this year or go through a riskif'r fusion surgery in which they insert molal with thP fusion. 

"They put the melal in there with the fusion so that it heals faster. stronger and trur.r. so that I would definitely be able to play," Hobf'fts said. "I just wanted to play, so I did whatever it took to play." 
The schmre business major ignornd the p()ssibility that the operation might not do thP trir.k. 
"It never crossed my mind," Roberts said, "I just had rC'ally good faith in the dortors and what they can do now with science.• l'vn always blwn a real scirince kind oJ' guy. I always road about sLUff pPople have prob• ably mwf'l' heard of, surgnries and opera­tions." 
Luckily !'or the Irish, the surgPry returned Urn 6-foot-2, 251-pound Hoberts to peak playing form. Although Roberts was prn• jected to br a rnscrve behind senior captain Grant Irons. his back-up rolr. zoomed into a starting position whPn Irons suffered a sea­son-ending injury early in the game against Nebraska. 

'Tm really happy for him." Irons said. "Throughout his whole career he's always worked hard to get the opportunity to play. This is the hPst possible situation for mr. to have a person like Ryan RoberL<; who's able to come in and bo ablr. to play at a high 
level." 
Bobrrts has done more than just step up to the plate -he has recorded throe sar.ks on the year. one in each game. One ol' thosr sacks came against Purdue quarterbal'k Drr,v Br('es. who was only sacked eight times all of last year. 
'Tm happy I got the sacks and all, but I think my gamt~ r.ould improve tremendous­ly," Hobrrts said, playing down his suc1:nss. 'Tm having good games, I'm making good plays, but I'd rather be more consistent." 
see ROBERTS/page 15 
MEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 

Alumni blanks O'Neill 13-0 in opener 
By MATT CASSADY, JAMES VERA.LOI, an<l BRIAN SHARP Sports Writers 
With a loud crowd and a dry fit>ld on a pt>rfoct spring-likf• day. the scene was set for Alumni to pick up where it left off after last year's successful 
season. 
This is 1'xactly what they did in tlwir hard fought 13-0 victo­ry ovPr O'Neill I !all on Sunday at Str,pan. 
A stellar dr.fonsive effort on the part of Alumni. combined with an imprcssiv1• second half offensiVf\ showcase eventually ovPrwhelnwd a gritty perf'or­mancP bv ()':-.Jeill's dt:l'ense. 
Thf! nist half was a defonsivc battle that ended in a scoreless tiP. Although Alumni moved thr\ ball f'airlv wrll on occasion. it could 111~t capitalize with a scorP. 
On tlw op,•ning scri11s ,\lumni hPld O'NPill to lhrn1,-and-out bef'orc, LIH' Angry \!lob punter boomPd a monstrous kick to the Dawg's 2-yard line. Alumni escaped trouble with some tough runs by freshmen Alex HoodhousP and a clutch third down completion from fresh• man quarterback Chris Cottingham to receiver Jon 
Bevilacqua.

r 
The Alumni offense. however. sputtr,rcd and the first half bocanw a battle for field posi­tion. 
"We were moving the ball. 
SPORTS 
ATA 
GLANCE 


we just couldn't score." Alumni captain Mitch Karam said. 
In the second half, Alumni's offense settled down, and opened up the passing attack. 
vs. Cleveland State Today, 7 p.m. 
Golf at Kalamazoo Thursday, 1 p.m. 

deciding to take advantage of the size mismatch created by their tandem of 6-foot-4 receivers, Bevilacqua and Brian Ostick, 
ar Calvin College 
sf@ 

Tuesday, 7:30 p.m. 
vs. Manchester College 
s'lr 

Wednesday, 5 p.m. 
O'Neill's Mike Brown. who drew the undesirable task of matching up with one of them 
see BLUE/page 18 
vs. Loyola Marymounr
'{@· Thursday, 7 p.m. 
at ITA National Clay 
Courts
(i)
-._.,,,,"' 
Thursday-Sunday 
Tuesday, September 19, 2000 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
Walsh, Off Campus play to tie 
By IAUREN CONTI, JOHN 
BACSIK and TODD NIETO 
Sports W rit~rs 
Sunduv·s 0-0 ti!' bPtWn(•n lhn Wild Women or Walsh llall and tlrn Ol'f'-Campus team was an r>VPnly matrhrd fight to tlw linish. 
Tim r.lnrncnt of mvstPrv shrouding thr Of'l'-Citmpus wonrnn. who have not had a team in thr past two ynars. was finally dissipatPd as <1arh team's slightly shaky 01T0.ns(' ro u gh t to p r n n tr a t n t hn otlwr's cxperinncPd dnf'nnsc. 
"We didn't know what to <'xpect," said Walsh captain Melis.sa BPiting. "But I thought WP did a good job handling thPm. WP wPrn able to contain them and not Int thPm scorn." 
Off-Campus' offpnsn startl'd off th11 first-hall' action. lf'd by quarterback Jami Stouff'Pr. Starting from thPir own 20­yard !inn. they thrPw three incomplete passes before punting on t'ourth down. 
"'Our offense was kind of shaky." said Off-Campus cap­tain and quarterback Marita Keane. "Because wr were just getting used to playing with each other." 
"Offense did firm," ()('['. Campus coach Paul Diamantopoulos said, "It was kind of like a scrimmage l'or them. It was their first time rnally playing together." 
The Off-Campus womPn moved gradually up ttw field. but couldn't se1\m to stave off Walsh's vPteran defnnsn long enough to get the ball into Walsh territory. 
Walsh's offense strugglPd as woll. Although quarlPr­bark Lauren Walsh. repeat­edly found running bark Kay Scanlan open. Walsh's young offense couldn't sustain a drive. 
As the half progrPssPd. th<' game took on a back-and· forth l'eel, with no striking offensive maneuvers. 
"Our defense came up huge." said Diamantopoulos. ­"There was just a tremen­dous effort there. Molly Host had a really great rushing game. I think we held them to no more than a couple l'irst downs." 
With only minutes rnmain­
see GOLD/page 14 
• Cross Counrry 
National Catholic Invite Friday, 5 p.m. 
·~ 
ar Michigan State -~ Saturday, 3:30 p.m 




