
Timely Films 
El Nino 
Scene reviews the plethora ofthree-plus hour 
Elian Gonzalez's Miami relatives went to 

Thursday
films this holiday season. from Ripleys to 
federal court yesterday to challenge the ruling 
Cedars to Magnolias. 
that will send him back to his father in Cuba. 

JANUARY 20, 
Scene . page 17 
World & Nation . page 5 

2000 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 66 




Fire blazes through Seton Hall dorm 
Associated Press 
SOUTH ORANGE, N . .J. 

Fire broke out at a Seton Hall University dormitory early Wednesday as hundreds slept, killing three people, injuring 62 and sending terrified students crawling in pajamas through choking smoke into the freezing cold outside. 
Four students were critically burned. One of them suJ­rered third-degree burns over most of his body. 
Many of the 640 residents of Boland Hall rolled over to go back to sleep when they heard the alarm around 4:30 a.m., thinking it was another in a string of 18 false alarms set off in the six-floor building since September. 
But many soon heard screams for help, smelled the smoke and saw names crnep under doors. "I opened the door just to check," Yatin Patel said. "All 

A student shops at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore amid current talks about the University's sweatshop policies. 
the ceiling tiles were coming down. I saw a ceiling tile fall on someone;'' 
"It was panic. Everybody was just, 'Go! Go! Go!"' said Nicole Mcfarlane, 19. She was treated for exposure because she left her room,,.,in only a short nightgown, a jack­et and hiking boots. 
The cause of the fire was under investigation. 
The tragedy cast a pall of grief over the campus of the Roman Catholic school 15 miles southwest of New York City. Classes for the 10,000 students were canceled for the week. A memorial service was planned for later Wednesday. Sports events also were postponed through Thursday. 
"There's not much you can say at this time," said Newark Archbishop Theodore Mccarrick, who came to offer sup-
see FIRE/page 4 

HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
NDFD emphasizes fire prevention on both campuses 
By TIM LOGAN News Editor 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's combine education, preparation and fire safety devices to try to prn­vent incidents like the blaze that killed three students Wednesday at Seton Hall University. 
All of the dorms on the two cam­puses have alarms and at least some form of automatic sprinkler system and a series of regulations banning certain high-risk objects from student rooms. 
Full sprinkler systems -with heads in each room -exist in all Saint Mary's residence halls, according to Dana North, assistant director for Residence Life at the College. 
Those systems are in place in approximately half of the dorms at Notre Dame, said University fire chief John Antonucci. Fifteen Notre Dame residences have "partial" sprinkler systems that protect high­risk areas such as boiler rooms and laundries, Antonucci said. The rest have full systems with a sprinkler in every room. These, and an extensive network of extinguishers and alarms, help the department combat blazes. 
But the fire department -located on campus next to Haggar Hall ­focuses on prevention first. The on-campus fire department gives officials the jurisdiction to enforce fire code regulations more easily and check sprinklers, alarms and extinguishers frequently, Antonucci said. 
"What an on-campus fire depart-
see NDFD/page 4 


ND adopts new sweatshop policy 
By KATE STEER 
A.ssisrant News Ediror 
As the leading university in tlrn movement against sweat­shop labor, Notre Dame recently adopted three recom­mendations made by the University's Task Force on Anti-sweatshop Initiatives. 
The University now prohibits the manufacturing of Notre Dame products in countries that do not recognize the legal rights of workers to form labors. It also created a model factory monitoring program and it will demand full public disclosure of manufacturing sites by all its licensees. 
Each recommendation builds upon the initial struc­ture put in place in March 1999 to monitor production of Notre Dame licensed products and apparel. 
Bill Hoye, chairperson of the task force, appreciates the actions of the University and its president Father Edward Malloy. 
"Obviously, we're really pleased that rather Malloy has adopted the recommendations of the task force," he said. "We think that they'll make a real and substantial contribu­tion to improving the condi· tions of the workers that make Notre Dame licensed products around the world." 
The original idea behind the task force was to make a statement in response to the increasing public awareness and opposition to what is known as sweatshop labor. The statement declared the University's position on the issue and began to set forth a code of conduct among the manufacturers and to put in place a monitoring system to ensure adherence to the code. 
"The next big issue is just the physical implementation or the plan: looking at the moni­toring, gathering lists of what our vendors are and who our licensees are. Once we have full disclosure of factories' locations, we can send out the monitoring groups," said stu­dent body president Micah Murphy, who served on the task force. 
The changes in the monitor­ing system will include the involvement of representatives of non-governmental groups like labor leaders, human rights activists and church leaders. 
"[The changes! will add an element of credibility and 
see POLICY/page 7 

---~------------..,...----~----­
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, January 20, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Millennium, schmellinnium 
How was your millennium celebration'? Did you watch the millennium coverage on ABC? Or maybe you've heard President Clinton talk about our 
country in the new mil• lennium? Millennium, schmellinnium. 
I still have a year to plan my millennium cel­ebration and so do you. Sorry to break it to you. but the turn of the cen­


tury and the new millen­ Brian Kessler  
nium starts next year ­ 
Jan  1. 2001. Wfl're still  
in the 20th r.entury and still in thfl second mil­ Sporrs Editor  
lennium. Anyone with a  
first grade educatinn  

and a little r.ommon sense could tell you 
that 
Last time I checked. there was never a year zero. Back in the sixth century, a monk named Oionysius Exiguus (literally translated Dennis the Shorti determined that time should be marked by the birth of Jesus. As a result of his studies, he set the year AD 1 {the first year of our Lord). However. in his plan, he counted back­wards the time before the birth or Jesus down to the year 1 BC, and then immedi­ately shifted to the year AD 1. There was no year zero in between. 
So anyone who can count to 100 can tell you that the first century comprised the years AD 1 through AD 100. The second century began with AD 101 and continued through AD 200. By extrapolation we find that the 20th century comprises the years AD 1901-2000. Therefore, the 21st century will begin with Jan. 1, 2001, and continue through Dec. 31, 2100. Similarly, the first millennium comprised the years AD 1­1000. The second millennium comprises the years AD 1001-2000 and the third mil­lennium will begin with AD 2001 and con­tinue through AD 3000. 
Here is another way of looking at it. If you ha<l 100 pennies, the 100th penny would complete the dollar. The 101st penny starts the next dollar. Therefore the 100th year is the last year of the century and 101st year starts the next century. Similarly, the 1000th year is the last year of the millenni­um and the 1001st year starts the next mil­lennium. So the third millennium and 21st century start at 2001. 
Now that's not so difficult, is it? You would think a, society that invented the computer, landed on the moon and cloned a sheep would be able to do a little math and accurately point out the start and end of the centuries and millenniums. 
I guess not. 

The views c:rpressed in the hlside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Maureen Smirhe Mike Vanegas Erin LaRuffa 
Graphics 
Nicole Haddad 
Jose Cuellar 
Sports Production 
Molly McVoy 
Lauren Berrigan 
Viewpoint 
Lab Tech 
Colleen Gaughen 
Joe Stark 

The Observer (USP~ 599 2-4000) is publoshed Monday 1hrot11th fnd,,y ou.:ep1 during cx.:1m and VHetrion periods. The Observer is ;1 member of rhr Assod:u,d Press. All ,~prodocrion riglm ore reserved 
THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
NMCP boycott may keep Duke students from Myrtle Beach 
DUHHAM, N.C. 
If the early response from many Duke students is any indication, the power of the NMC:P's tourism boy­cott in South Carolina will keep some Duke students away from Myrtle Beach this May. But although stu­dents who support the boycott are doing so with fer­vor,-others insist the issue will not keep them away from Myrtle's surf and sand after finals week. Protesting the Confederate tlag flying above the state capitol, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, led nationally by Kweisi Mfume, has called for a boycott in South Carolina until the state's legislature agrees to remove the flag. Although the sourre of the controversy lies in a neighboring state, many student groups and individuals have a vested interest in the issue. Duke NAACP President Kameron Matthews. a senior, said that the Duke chapter will do its part to persuade University students to support the boycott. "We will be asking others to seriously consid­er canceling their Myrtle Beach plans for May." 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
. 
Acousticale: J.aFortunc, . Ceremony: Hcdcdication . Performance: "Dream . Session: Scuba diving 9 p.rn. of gallery spaces, Liltll' Team Comedy Show." rourse information ses­

. 
Rave: Have and !lo-Theatre Lobby, 5:30 µ.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium. sion, 218 Hockno, 1 p.m. down. Alumni-Senior Club. · . Movie: "Eyes Wide 8 p.m. . Concert: Altenburg Trio, l'or all ages. 10 p.m. Shut," Snitc, 6:30 p.m. . Concert: Pai Heidon Snite, $3, 2 p.m. 

. 
Movie: "American . Dance: Folk Danco Quinttml, jazz and blues . Performance: "Pride and Beauty," 101 neBarlalo, Group, Clubhouse, music, LaFortune Prejudire," Little Theatre. 


10:30 p.m. 7:30 p.m. Ballroom, 8 p.m. 3 p.m. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Live animal experiments canceled at Illinios 
CHAMPAIGN. Ill. "There is a movement to bring trying to be deliberate and work Live animal experiments for first­with reasonable speed. It just lakes
respect for non-human 
year veterinary students were can­time. It. has become a media celled this semestor by tho College animals and vet schools need event." of Veterinary Medicine. as adminis­to move forward. " However. veterinary schools trators explore alternatives to nationwide are moving toward experiments that kill animals in using live animals less -especially order to teach students. Teri Barnato in beginning classes. 
The new policy will likely estab­Association of Veterinarians "From what I undPrstand, most. lish procedun's where students will for Animal Rights veterinary schools aren't using live learn how normal animals function radavers to teach physiology -it's by using less invasive methods in Just not ncc~!ssary," said Teri their basic physiology classes. Tlrny ments lasl semester. Some profes­Barnato, national director of the also might watch demonstrations sors said available alternalives Association of Veterinarians for instead of doing their own expnri­were not good enough. Animal Rights. "There is a move­me nts. But those procedures The policy the school has been mcn t to bring respert for non­"change the intensity of studies," developing since last fall will prob­human animals and vet schools said the college's dean, Victor Valli. ably make the alternatives a formal need to move forward." 
University veterinary students part or the class, said Gerald Valli agreed that veterinary were never forced to participate in Pijanowski, the college's associate schools are moving toward a less the experiments, but were not dean for academic and student hands-on approach but said real offered alternatives. More than 25 affairs. experienr,e is still the best way to students opted out of the experi-"This is nol new," he said. "We're learn. 

Mon~ay ., /'t~ 35 25 

V,s Assocm'9d Pmu

;,.5-.rJ"' ·,,. ·\; 
Atlanta 45 20 Las Vegas 69 48 Portland 46 36 Baltimore 35 19 Memphis 42 23 Sacramento 59 44 Boston 28 18 Milwaukee 17 4 St. Louis 38 21
q-~-~9.6}Q(t ~u 
Showers T-sforms Rain Flurries S~o;., lee S!-!nfly Pt Cfoudy Cloudy Chicago 20 4 New York 30 14 Tampa 73 41 V,a Associated Press GraphlcsNt1t Houston 66 40 Philadelphia 24 8 Wash DC 36 18 
Washington student sues LSAC 
SEATTLE 
A class-action lawsuit against the Law School Admissions Council (LSAC) was filed Tuesday in Pennsylvania on behalf of three disabled women in Seattle, one a student at the University of Washington. It joins one filed by the US Justice Department last month. The most recent lawsuit alleges that the LSAC, which administers the Law School Admissions Test tLSAT), violated the Amr.rirans with Disabilities !\ct when they refused to make testing accommodations for the women. The dass-action lawsuit alleges the coun­cil, in its policy of granting or not granting accommo­dations to the disabled, controls who can go to law school and who cannot. In that way it acts as a blork­adn to those trying to earn a law degree. "Every law school accredited by the American Bar Association requires the LSAT," said attorney David Ferleger, who has been hired to take the rase. "To become a lawyer you need to graduate from an accredited law school." The lawsuit from the {JS Justice Department also says that the LSAC violated the law wlrnn it.denied addition­al .time to four physically disabled persons. 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeatheroafnrecasl for daylime: conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeathel® forecast for noon, Thursday, Jan. 20. 
40s Lines separate high temperature zooes for the day. 
H t Thursday 
7
e 

Friday I 6
~ 

j 
Saturday c:2 25 19 Sunday i c@.. 33 22 
~ 

C 2000 AceuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Thursday, January 20, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Senate discusses uses of old tests 

By LAURA ROMPF 
Assistant News Editor 
At its first meeting of the new y,~ar Wednesday night, the Student Senate addressed the issue or professors using past tf'sts as study guides. 
"The real problem is that the use of old tests can give students a major advantage. ThPy will help students to have a good idea about which questions wiH be asked," said Philip Dittmar, the fisher Hall senator. "This is an unfair advantagfl btlcause from dorm to dorm, test files are unequal." 
Last semester certain students were given an advantage by acquiring specific tests from other residents living in their halls. The same tests were not available lo students in all dorms or to off-campus students, Dittmar said. 
"The fact is, if a teacher otfers an old test as a study tool, that's great. But if kids arc buying tests to study by rather than reading the book and studying their notes, it is not fair that they do bettor than students who are studying the correct way." 
Dittmar said that he wil.l con­tinue work on this issue. 
"I would like to see either teachers put tests in the library or on the Internet so that stu­dents all have equal access," he said. "Across the board, all stu­dents should have equal access. There must be high integrity in the teachers' action or our actions. The fact is, test mes in the dorms do not equate." 
Dittmar explained that be will address the Campus Life Council and tn to have this issue addrnss~d in DuLac. 
In other senate news: 
. 
The nomination for Dan Peate as senate parliamentari­an was unanimously approved. 

.A 
resolution iu honor of Father Theodore Hesburgh was passed unanimously. The reso­1ution recognizes Father Hesburgh "for being a true model of servant-leadership to follow" and congratulates him for winning the Congressional Gold Medal and the Medal of Fn~edom. the highest award given by the United States gov­ernment to a civilian. 


. 
Another rnsolution was passed ordering the Club Coordination Council, the Off­Campus Council, the Senior Class Council and the Freshman Class Council to submit a transi­tion report to the senate. 

. 
Student body president Micah Murphy announced that the administration and the Hall Presidents' Council agreed to name the student section at bas­kc tball games "Matt's Outrageous Bunch," or the MOB. 

. 
Murphy added that SafeRide will begin in approximately two weeks. 

. 
Joe Cassidy, Director of Student Activities and the LaFortunc Student Center, also addressed the senate. 


"Cushing is currently under construction," Cassidy said. "Therefore, SUB movies will be moved to stadium seating in 101 DeBartalo." 
.Also, a banmir offering con­dolences to Seton Hall University, where three students died in a dorm fire on Tuesday, will be available for students to sign. 

Asbestos discovered in Le Mans Hall during pipe repairs 
nience to fifth annex residents. the attic. that can cause lung damage and campus, it is encapsulated,By NOREEN GILLESPIE Several residents were required "No asbestos was removed other medical complications if meaning that it cannot become 
Saint Mary's Editor 
to move furniture in order to from any of the rooms," said the fibers reach the air, is found airborne, said Delee. 
provide space for workers to John DeLee, director of facilities in several older buildings as an Asbestos is removed when the 
/\ hot water pipe containing complete the removal. at Saint Mary's. "There was no insulating material. area is renovated or repaired,asbestos-filled insulation was The process, which took hazard whatsoever to the resi­Testing of the air in the rooms which increases the chance the rnmoved from the attic directlv approximately one week, dents in the rooms. and attic was completed follow­material will become airborne, over the fifth annex in Le Mans required "clean rooms" for Unfortunately, it was just an ing the removal to ensure that he said. No areas on campus are Ila!! during winter break. workers to clean up following inconvenience to the women no asbestos particles were in the in danger of asbestos conse­
The asbestos was discovered removal. Five rooms in fifth because it was our only way to air. quences at this time, he said,when repairs were needed on annex were affected as either the attic." While asbestos does insulate although it is something facilities th(~ pipe, causing minor inconve­
clean rooms or passageways to Asbestos, a fibrous material pipes in several buildings around constantly monitor. 
FactSet is the leading provider of online financial, 
market, and economic information. Our product is used 
by over 10,000 investment professionals worldwide to 
research companies, industries, and economies. 
Information Session 
Wednesday, February 16, 2000 
Interviews 
Thursday, February 17, 2000 

Consultants -The ideal candidate is fascinated with compu~ers a~d software and has an interest in learning about f1nanc1al markets. Exceptional communication and interpersonal skills are also vital as consultants are in constant contact with clients worldwide. 


FACTSET 
FactSet is an equal opportunity employer 
www.factset.com 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 20, 2000 
Fire 

continued from page 1 
PatP-1, who lives on the third Door dowu the hall from the lounge where thfl blaze broke out, said he put a wet towel under his door, kicked out his window screens and threw his mattresses on the ground in case ho had to jump. 
At least two students did jump, wHnesses said. Tim Vun Wie. 18. of flandcrs, said a friend jumped from the third floor and suffered a broken wrist and sprained ankle. Others lied sheets together lo climb down from the windows, but firefighters arrived in time and rescued them bv ladder. 
Kflara Saube;, 18, saw one fol­low student shivering in a T­shirt and boxers, his skin com­pletely blackened by burns. '"His skin was, like, smoking," she said. 
Two of those killed were found in the lounge and one was found in a bedroom nearbv. Their names wore not released. It wa..c; not immediately known whether they were students. 
Two firefighters and two police officers were among those hurt. The injuries ranged from exposure and smoke inhalalion to burns. 
The blaze was largely con­fined to the lounge. Students said they frequently saw people smoking in the lounge, though it is prohibited. 
Essex County Prosecutor Donald C. Campolo would not comment on whether careless smoking may have caused the fire. The Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco and Firearms was assisting in the investigation. 
The 48-year-old building was equipped with smoke alarms and extinguishers but did not have a sprinkler system because it was built before they were required, Campolo said. 
Fire hoses inside the building had been disconnected because the equipment was obsolete, Seton Hall spokeswoman Lisa Grider said. Campolo said fire­fighters generally use their own hoses. 
The smoke alarms and extin­guishers had passed inspection recently and at least one extin­guisher was used during the blaze. he said. 
After the fire, soot-faced stu­dents lined up in the student center to comfort each other and call parents. 
Three roommates on the ground floor slept through the fire and were not hurt. They woke up more than two hours later. 
NDFD 
continued from page 1 

ment does for us is [put) us in a very proactive position," Antonucci said. "We're able to initiate preventions." 
The l\'otre Dame Fire Department also covers the Saint Mary's campus, and residence halls at both schools run fire drills regu­larly and train resident assis­tants to assist in fire protec­tion. 
But prevention is the key to fire safotv. Antonucci said. 
"What people don't seem to realize is that fire suppres­sion is a totally reactive activity," ho said. "Once a fire has moved from its initial state to a free-burning state. il's very difficult to mount enough manpower and enough equipment to bring obeying thesfl regulations. that incident to a successful "We have the policies in close without injury or fatali­place and we ask the stu­ty. That's what happened at dents to follow them," North Seton IIall." said. 
As a result, regulations arc Antonucci said he meets in place banning a number of with residence halls on occa­items, induding candles, sion to discuss fire safety and 
microwaves  impress  
and loaster  upon them  
ovens, from dorm rooms. At Notre D a m e ,  "What people don't seem to realize is that fire suppression is a totally  the impor­tan<"f) of remaining s m a r t  
smoking banned  is in  reactive activity."  a b o u flames.  t  
all residflnce h a I I s .  John Antonucci  "They are the  
Students are  NDFD chief  ones  that  
allowed  to  can  pre­ 
smoke  in  vent  the  
their  rooms  incidents  

at Saint Mary's, but there are from happening," he said. non-smoking floors in some "They can abide by the rules of the College's four dorms. we have to stop them." The key to prevention, fire Hectors, who often serve on officials say, is residents the front lines of fire protec­tion, said they think thfl fire department's prevention and protection efforts are good. 
'Tm personally feeling quite protected," said Pasquerilla East rector Mary Ann Mueninghoff. "I have found them quite timely whenever there has been any kind of emergency." 
The fire department has two pumping trucks and four firefighters on duty at all times. aecording to Antonucci. They are current­ly in-the process of retro­fitting the 15 dorms that have partial sprinkler systems with full ones. 
The last time a residence ball caught on fire at Notre Dame was when St. Edward's Hall's roof burned in June 1980, Antonucci said. A couch caught on fire in Saint Mary's south lounge of Regina Hall last May. 

Information Session 
for those interested in the position of 
Assistant Rector 
for University Residence Halls 
Tuesday, January 25th 6:30 -7:30 p.tn. Faculty Dining Room 
(Upper Level-South Dining Hall) 
For Information Call: Office of Student Affairs 316 Main Building 631-5550 
Light refreshments served 


----. 
. 
1 '
orld 
l 
AFP Photo 

Cuban Elian Gonzales leaves for school outside his Miami home Tuesday. Elian has been caught in the middle of a custody battle between his father in Cuba and relatives in Miami. 
Gonzales family goes to court 
Thursday, January 20, 1999 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Northeastern states pressure Congress on gas policy 
WASHINGTON 

Eight NorthoastPru slates stepped up pres• sun; W<'clnnsday for Congress lo give them grnati)r authority lo rngula.tn a gasoline addi­tivP. that lwlps <·!,-)an llrn air but is posing a thr<'at to lakes. st~\ams anti drinking water. Tim air pollution control officials from the <'ight states from New York to Maine urged Congress, when it r!'convenes next week, to movi) aggressively to lift a requirement for spccifir oxygon levels in gasoline antl allow slates mon' lrwway to regulate '.\1TBE, the nxyg<,n additirn now widely used. MTBE, or nwthyl tc>.rtiary butyl ether, was the additive of choir,• for thP petroleum industry as it sought to comply v.:ilh fPdPral r0quirements to haw ut last 2 pPrccnt oxygen in gasoline in arPas wilh major air pollution problems. 
Spanish ice: mystery or prank? 
VALENCIA 

Spain·s gr<~at in, mystery is beginning to look likP a prank. /\round :-rn chunks o[ ice are said to havP dropp1\d from the sky since Jan. 
8. sonw the sizP of baskPtbal!s. often in glori­ously sunny weather. and just about every Spanish n~gion has takPn a hit. The precipita­tion has picked up so much in the past few days that scientists said Wrdnesday they had collertcd enough samples and would not accept any more. The Superior Council for Scientifi1'. Research urged people who find suspect l'rozen matter to double-wrap it in plastk and keep it in a refrigerator. The coun­cil is conducting chemical analyses and has promisrd to rrport initial findings on Friday. l11 tlw nwantirne, chemists in Valencia did sonrn r.h<:cking of their own. They say they don't know what thn chunks arc. 
Fires rip through business, bushland 
CAPETOWl\l 

Haging firns dcstroyml al lPast 10 buildings, rnme within yards of businesses and ripped through hugre tracts of bushland and pine !'orPsts Wed1wsday. "It's becoming a major disaster." police spokeswoman Nina Kirsten said. No deaths were reported, but police threatened arrests if people refused to evacu­atr thrir homes. Western Cape Premier G,\rald Morkel declared the metropolitan Cape ar<'a a disaster area and asked people to sup­port a relief fund, the South African Press Association reporh,d. More than 100 fires wnrn reported in the last live days agn but were thought to lw under control until they nared up again Wednesday in 105-degree heat. the highest recorded since 1957. 
lfihiiWl®&JWtttl
Dow AMEx: 
890.57 

]ONES +4-2:, l'\iasdaq:
-7 l.36 
4151.29 -+ ~D.48 


'.'1/YSE 645.37 -1.45 

S&P 500: Composite 
1455.90 Volume:

11489.36 -0.76 1,063,740,032 
VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPMX TICXS-' cvNJC• $ C:Mtl® l>RICI 
MICJIWSOF'T CORT;I NSFT -7 _;,n. -a •.u::i.s 101. 00 M!'ERICA ONLIWE AOL 4S .. 9l ..-3.,63Q0 6, .IIQ LUCEN'l' 1-'BCli INC LV +l..86 +O .9400 51.U ])£.LL COa,IPO'J'EJtS OELL -+l. 0«. +o •.,.ns ,2. 50 COkCJ..S"I' CORP CMCSII: -t!L56 -+-2. 81JS 54 .$6 OJI.A.CL!: COFIP OR.CL 42,6'9 +1.49$0 $'1,1.2 C'.ISCO SY'STBMS csco .. o. 28 -+-0.llO<l 112.31 lW'l'E:L CORi' HM'C -2. 02 -2. 0650 100, 06 MC! WORL.OCOM WCOM .. 1. 'ai6 t-0. 5600 4.5,05 GEOWOPK~ CORP GWllX +110.40 ..u.sisoo 'U.'55 
COMPILED FROM Tml OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
CUBA 


Associated Press MIA'.\11 
Elian Gonzalez's rela­tives in Miami went to federal court Wednesday to challenge the Immigration and Naturalization Service's ruling that the 6-year-old boy must be returned to his father in Cuba. 
Lazaro Gonzalez, Elian's great-uncle, filed the fed­eral lawsuit after Attorney General Janet Reno declared last week 
U.S. to continue help in Venezuela 
and landslides that killed
Associated Press 

as many as 30,000 peo­
TANAGUARENA 
ple.

The United States will 
Neverthe]pss, the U.S. 
keep helping victims of 
relief effort is less ambi­
Venezuela's deadly floods 
tious than it would have
despite President Hugo 
been had tho army engi­
Chavez's recent decision 
neers been allowed to 
to reject hundreds of 
come. There are about
American military engi­
120 U.S. soldiers in 
neers, a U.S. diplomat 
Venezuela whose main
said Wednesdav. 

mission is to help provide
"We are moving ahead. 
clean drinking water to
Tlrnre is work to bH done. 
survivors.

Helations are good," 
Somo 450 Marine and
Ambassador John Maisto 
Navy 1:mgineers -had been 
told The Associated Press 
expected to help rebuild
during a helicopter tour 
the coastal road, an
of' tbe coastal zone most 
essential link for the
heavily damaged by last 
region's transportation
month's massive flooding 
and commerce. 

that the boy's status was an immigration matter solely in the jurisdiction of federal law. 
"It is about protecting Elian's civil and constitu­tional rights, the same as if he was anv other child," said Spen·cer Eig, a lawyer for the great­uncle. Elian has been liv­ing with his Miami rela­tives since he was found floating on an inner tube off the Florida coast Thanksgiving Day. 
The lawsuit names as defendants Reno, INS Commissioner Doris Meissner, INS District Director Rober Wallis, the Department of Justice and the INS. 
It accuses the govern­ment of violating Elian's rights to due process of law and asks the judge to prevent the INS from returning the boy to Cuba before the agency gives him an asylum hearing. 
No hearing date was immediately set. The Justice Department and 
But after Chavez said last. week that he did not want the American sol­diers in his country, U.S. officials ordered a U.S. Navy ship that was en route to Venezuela to reverse course. 
U.S. officials said they were dismayed by Chavez's announcement, since Venezuela's defense minister had requested the help in a letter on Dec. 24. 
Ambassador Maisto toured the disaster area -a swatb of coastal com­munities just north of the capital of Caracas -on a 
U.S. Army Blackhawk 
the INS said in statement they were prepared to respond quickly and would ask the court "to expeditiously address this matter." 
"It is important for the well-being of Elian Gonzalez that the status of this 6-year-old boy be resolved as quickly as possible," the statement said. 
Reno had brushed aside a ruling from a Miami family court judge delay­ing the boy's return. 
helicopter. 
The United States is playing a major role in purifying water from tbe ocean and contaminated rivers to give to mudslide survivors. Eighteen machines -half from the 
U.S. Army -and half from a private firm con­tracted by the U.S. gov­ernment -arc purifying some 500,000 gallons of water a day. 
Other countries, includ­ing Israel, FrancH, Uruguay and Spain, have brought their own water purificatinn machines in Vargas state. 


page 7 

Thursday, January 20, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 


Policy 
continued from page 7 
integrity to the monitoring process," said Hoye. 
"One of the k~y points is that when you have a code, no matter how good the code is, you have to have a moni­toring me1,:hanisrn. [The task fore? l certainly addressed lhal very well," said Father Oliver Williams, a university management professor. 
A new addition to the task force's efforts requires the right for workers to organize labor unions. · 
"The right to unionize is something that everyone should have, and l think that we should try to help people get that right," said Williams. 
The University strength­
ened its policy for including 
this right, stating that it will 
not maintain business with 
any countries or companies 
unwilling to commit to pro­
viding workers with this 
right. One such country is 
China. 
The unique recommenda­
tion holds a specific stipula­
tion against China. While 
most labor organizations and 
universitv task forces man­
date the right to organize, no 
gmup has gone so far as to 
cut relations with non-com­
pliant parties. 
"The right to organize 
ensures that the workers 
who make our products will 
have a legal right to form 
unions, to collectively bar­
gain with management and 
increase their ability to The companies in China improve their wages, hours that contract with universi­and working conditions," ties will be forced out of the Hoye said. "It gives them country in order to maintain additional power, additional their business relations. leverage. which is vitally That will result in massive 
important if they're going to job loss for the Chinese, he improve their wages and said. working conditions." But for Williams, the 
"They all have special implementation of a living country exceptions for places wage is the most important like China that say as long as aspect of creating and the licensees work with the enforcing fair labor condi­
Chinese government to tions. Williams defined a liv­improve conditions, they can ing wage as enough money go ahead and to be 
manufacture 
able to provide
products in 

"The right to unionize is 
China," Hoye food and 
added. "The something that everyone moder­ate shel­
problem with should have, and l think 
ter for
that from the 

that we should try to 
self andtask force's 

help people get that family
perspective is that that right ... w hi I e 
working
exception swallows the 

as much Father Oliver Williams 1 O­
whole rule. as a and we don·t management professor h o u r 
think that individual licensees are likely to have much influence over the Chinese govern­ment, especially when the United States government hasn't been able to affect 
positive change on this 
issue." 
Williams considers China differently, taking into account that one-fourth of the world's population resides there. Fair labor conditions should be attained in cooperation with everyone and the United States should work with the Chinese government to improve its labor laws, Williams said. 
day. 
" T h e 

notion of the living wage is something that must be addressed, and so I think we have to contin­ue to pressure [countries like China] to find a way to get that into their code and to monitor it. That's a big gap that isn't addressed yet," he said of the task force's new recommendations. 
Murphy stated that the group is still researching the living wage and will address it in the future. 
"Our business is not done in making this latest recom­mendation to Father Malloy, but it's a good launching ground," Murphy said. 
ND's Review of Politics publishes forgotten text 
Special to The Observer 

A recently discovered and previously unpublished text by the American Catholic theolo­gian Rev. John Courtney Murray appears in the Fall 1_999 "Millennial Issue" of Notre Dame's Review of Politics. 
The text, entitled "The Crisis ~n Church-State Relationships m the USA" is a 1950 memo­randum written by Father Murray to Msgr. Giovanni Battista Mantini, a staff mem­ber of the Vatican's Secretariat of State who became Pope paul VI. 
Rev. Joseph Komonchak, pro­fessor of religious studies at the Catholic University of America and author of the Review arti~ cle which introduces the new text, believes that the memo­randum provides "the clearest brief statement" of Father Murray's views on church-state relations and that its controver­sial reception by ccclesial offi­cials both in Rome and the United States helps measure the profundity of doctrinal change brought about by the Second Vatican Council. 
Father Murray's views on 
church-state relations were 
declared "erroneous" in 1954 
by the Vatican's Holy Office 
(now called the Congregation 
for the Doctrine of faith) and in 
1955 his Jesuit superiors for­
bade him to publish articles on 
the subject. despite these stric­tures, he eventually became the principal architect of the Second Vatican Council's Declaration on Religious ~reedom, which substantially mcorporated assertions that earlier had been_unacceptable. 
Father Murray, who died in 1967, wrote prolifically on a wide variety of issues including not only church-state relations, but also funding for private schools, the Cold War and the ~roblem of conscientious objec­tion. he argued that the consti­tutionally enshrined notion of the separation of church and state was not incompatible with Catholic social teaching.On Dec. 12, 1960. he was featured on the cover of Time Magazine after his book "We Hold These Truths: Catholic Heflections on the American Proposition" greatly influenced public atti­tudes during John F. Kennedy's presidenti~l campaign. Murray was appornted a theological advisor to the Vatican Council in 1963 by Francis Cardinal 
Spellman of New York. 

The Review of Politics was founded by Waldemar Gurian, the German philosopher who, forced to flee from Hitler's Germany in 1937. found a home at Notre Dame, where he died in 1954. From its first issue in 193 9, the Review has emphasized a philosophical and historical approach to politics. Among its contributors have been Hannah Arendt and John Kenneth Galbraith. 

Do YOU LIKE SPORTS? Do You LovE Kios? Do You WANT To GET PAID 
AND 

EARN COLLEGE CREDIT? 
National Youth Sports Program 
Needs You! Come and learn how you can be a part of 
NYSP 2000 
Thursday, January 20 at 8 p.m. or Monday, January 24 at 7 p.m. at 
Center for Social Concerns Classroom 
(for additional information call 876-8394) 

Bene.fits include: -Livh1g in residence hall on campus -Three meals per day -Tuition credit of$1,200 -Academic Credit 

page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, January 20, 2000 
Initial Report to Father Malloy of the University's Task Force on Anti-Sweatshop lnitiatives--January 9, 2000 
INTRODUCTION wa.s set up to address worker.s' concerns at ucL, to freely associate. collecuvely bargain that all of iLs licensees voluntarily publicly up, or lo report problems and concerns to theWe are writing to you as the University·, ~he Mandarin apparel factory in San and form labor unions: disclose the factory locations where they regional monitoring committee, thu!-i enhanc­Ta~k Force on Anti-Sweatslmp Initiatives. Salvador. The Mandarin factory was the site Products bearing the name or other trade­make or source products bearing the ing our complaint mechanism. Of course,which you appointed in March of last year. of a worker uprising several years ago. which marks of the University ot Notre Dame du University's name or other trademarks. A whether a problem is identified during a m order to update you m1 the work of the led to the formation of the GMIES monitor­Lac shall only be manufactured I in countries numher of top-ten Notre Dame licensees monitoring visit, or a complaint is receivedTask Force to date and convey to you our ing group, Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S.C., direc­where all workers enjoy the legal rights t.o already have agreed to do so, including adi­from a worker or third party, the affected initial recommendauons. These recommen­tor emeritus of the Institute for Pnstoral and associate freely. form independent labor das and Champion Products. In a separate, licensee and/or its business partner should bedcitions were unanimously approved by the Social Ministry and a fellow in the Kroc unions and collectively bargain with their unrelated announcement, GEAR for Sports provided with an opportunity to respond to ii,voting members of the Task Force ut its final lnstilute for lnlernat10nal Peace Studies employers concerning wages, hours, working (another top ten licensee) recently made a either verbally or in writing. before adverse meeting of the semester on December 6. accompumed our group and helped arrange conditions and other terms and conditions of similar commitment to voluntary public dis­action is taken by the University.
1999. its itinerary. fr. Pelton's participation and employmenl. closure. We are confident that many more Each member of the regional monitoringAs you will recall. the members of the assistance proved invaluable. Importantly. This recommendation. if adopted, would licensees will follow suit. Consistent with commiuee will receive a copy ofevery mon·Task Force are: William Hoye (chair). asso­the trip led to the fon11ation and development require an amendment to the University•s Catholic social teaching and the notion of itoring report and complaint involving facto­cime vice president and counsel: James of a consensus within the Task Force and a Code of Conduct to include the above lan­subsidiarity, the Task Force does not believe ries in the region. They also will be asked toLyphout. vice president for business opera­recommendation concerning the ideal moni­guage. The Task Force suggests thot this the University should mandate public disclo­provide input into University decisions con­tions: Dr. Thomas Swartz. professor nf eco­toring plan for Notre Dame. The pror,oscd recommendation be phased in over time. in sure where. as here. other mechanisms such cerning appropriate follow-up to factory vis­nomics: Dr. Lc-e Tavis. professor of finance; monitoring plan is discussed in detail below. order to allow Notre Dame Licensees ~uffi· as requesting voluntary public disclosure its and remedial measures.
Dr. Todd Whicn1ore. associate professor of Monitoring the Code of Conduct. In cient advanced notice of this substantive seem to he working. 
The budget for the regional munitoring theology; Miu1h Mu1phy. student body presi­September. seven,) University officials ch,mge in policy and adequate time lo shift We believe that the University's call for pilot projecl we propose will primarily con­dent: Maria Ci.matas. president~ Graduate observed a PricewaterhouseCnor,ers their production of products bearing the public disclosure has added. and will contin­sist of travel expenses for committee meet­Sw<lent Union: Mclissn Cunboy. associnte ("PWC") audit of a factory manufacrnring University's name and other trn<lemurks ue to add. an element of transparency to ings and audit,. as well as telephone and athletic director: .Jame~ Pulri<lino. assnciate Notre Dame licensed products in Mexico. It away from countries which do not legally Notre Dame's efforts on this issue and other communications charges. The fee fordi rector of the Center for Socinl Concerns: was a company-owned foctory which rccogni1e the rights to organize. form lahor demonstrates its deep. good faith commit­local NGO participation would need to heDennis Moore. director of public relations & employ, approximately I .700 workers. We unions m1d collectively bargain. We suggest ment to fighting unacceptable labor condi­negotiated between the University and eachinformation: Richard Conklin, associate vice have arranged PWC audits ofother foctories that this recommendation be fully imple­tions. 

NGO directly. Although we have not devel­president for university relations. In addi• as well. In fact.just l,lSI month one of our mented no later than June 30. 200 I. Puhlic disclosure is not, of course, a oped a detailed budget. we would not expecttion. there are three non-voting advisory task force members observed a PWC factory In orrter to satisfy the minimum require­panacea. It is nnt. for example. a substitute this project lo be cost prohibitive for the m<"mhers of the Task Force. including: audit in Mexico. Fr. Beauchamp has ments of this recommendmion. any country for !he sort of strong. effective and compre­University. If this recommendation isJames Raumann. president. Higher approved suggested revisions to the where Notre Dame licensed product~ arc hensive monitoring system we recommend approved. we will promptly prepare and sub­Education Group. Folleu: Susheeln Jayapnl. U11iversity"s Code of Conduct which give manufactured mus\ satisfy one or more of the below. Similarly, it will have a less direct mit a proposed budget for your review.

general counsel. ;ididas America: Steve Notre Dame the legal right to demand facto­following: (I) he a signatory 10 ln1erna1ional impact on improving the lives of workers This structure and these monitoring pro­lesseph, executive director. global workplace ry information from our licensees and under­Lahor Organization ("ILO") Convention No. than will our recommendation on the right to cedures should allow the University to keepvalues & safety. Sara Lee Corp. take monitoring visits in any facility that 872; (2) be a signatory to I.LO. Convention organize (especially since ii will no! provide its focus on improving conditions and cor­Administrative assistance has been provided manufactnres Notre Dame licensed product. No. 983: or (3) have adopted its own national members of the public with rights of access recting unacceptable labor practices throughhy Deborah Gabaree, Legal Assistant. At our request. Fr. fames McDonald. C.S.C.. laws on or before June 30. 2001, which pro­to factories). 
remediation while helping to keep muchSince its formation, tile Task Force has has had our Code of Conduct translated into \'idc all workers within the country (includ­Nevertheless, those who advocate public needed jobs in Mexico and Central America.

met every two to three weeks to discuss the Spanish. The Task Force intends to have it ing but not limited to foreign workers) legal disclosure suggest that instimtions which It also will provide the University and itscomrlex issues surrounding the n.nti~~weat­printed as a small pamphlet which ean be rights lo free associa1ion and lo form ar1id jnin refuse pnblicly to disclose factory informa• various constituencies with some added com­shop debate in detail. The primary focus has given to workers in factories ntong with con­organizations of their own choosing (includ­tion must have something to hide. Because fort.
heen on four specific issues: (I) whether tact infot'mation to report problems or con­ing unions) without anti-union discrimina­the University has nothing 10 hide, and does If the regional pilot project is deemed aNotre Dame should require public disclosure cerns. If any licensees sl1ould decide not to tion. prior authorization or interference hy not want to be inaccurately perceived as such success, then 11 could be replicated in otherof the manufacturing sites its Hcensees utilize provide us with requested factory informa­puhlic authorities or other<. Employer creat• by any constituency. we have requested that regions of the world where a substantialto manufacture our licensed products; (2) tion. or refuse to allow us to undertake moni­ed. mandated or sponsored orgcinizations. our licensees voluntarily publicly disclose amount of Notre Dame licensed product iswhether the University should require that its toring visits, the University is prepared lo suc-h as company unions, do not ,atisfy this the factory locations where they make or manufactured.
licensed products only be manufactured in discontinue its business relation.ships with requiremenl. source products bearing Notre Dame's name 
CONCLUSION

locations which kg.illy recognii.e the rights them. Under this recommendation. after June or other trademarks. 
In summary, the Task 1-'orce recommendslo free association and collective bargaining; Follett College Stores. In addition to the 30. 2001. goods bearing the University's A MODEL FOR INDEPENDENT MONI­the adoption of a system of voluntary public (3) the appropriate structure and composition $50,000 hudgeted by the University for fac­name or other 1rademarks and indicating that TORING disclosure by Iicensces of factory informa­of an independ~nt system lo credibly monitor tory monitoring. Follett Higher Education they were made in a country which does not As you know. in March of last year the tion concerning all locations where theythe University's Code of Cun duct: and (4) Group ha, agreed to contribute $50.000 by then comply with the above requirements University retained PriceWaterhouseCoopers make or source products bearing the tht: Jiving wage issue. toward jointly monitoring our common (e.g.. "Made in China") may not be sold by ("PWC") to moniwr licensee compliance University"s name or other trademarks, along A cons.:nsus has deve!opei.l within the licensees' manufacturing fadlities. Given or on behalf of any Notre Dame Licensee. with the University's Code of Conduct. We with a strong. independent and credible mon­Task Force on the first three of these issues. our relationshi1> with Follett, we share a great Of course. all Notre Dame I icensees and the ii' believe the PWC monitoring process is itoring system which includes not only theWe will attempt to summarize that consensus many licensees. Follett's contribution will business partners doing business in the extremely thorough. and the PWC monitors largest accounting firm in the world but also in this memorandum. With respect 10 the allow us nearly 10 double the number of United Stntes are and at all times shall appear to us to be extremely competent. 

local NGO representatives such as churchfourth issue (the living wage). the Task Force monitoring visits we undertake in the next remain obligated to comply with the laws independent, forthright and ohjective in their officials. labor representatives and humandoes not believe it can ade4uately address year. and regulations of the United States assessment of factory conditions. In order lo rights acti vis ls from the countries wherethe issue .and formu1ate recommendations The Fair Lahar Association. Notre Dame Government concerning product labeling and add even more diverse skill sets, increased Notre Dame licensed products are made. Weuntil later this Spring. after we have had an is a founding member of the Fair Labor countries of product origin. credibility and a more perm,ment local per­further recommend the adoption of a Code ofopportunity to process. discuss and give fur­Association's University Advisory Council. The rationale for this recommendation is spective to the existing monitoring system. 

Conduct provision which would require the ther thought to the issue in the context of. The more than 120 colleges and universities Catholic social teaching and the rule of law. and to augment communications by monitors strongest rights to free association and col­inter alia, our participation in a living wage from across the country that have joined the Catholic social teaching has long recognized with workers al the local level. we recom­lective bargaining of any college or universi­symposium sponsored by the University of FLA elected Carol Kaesebier. vice president the rights of workers throughout the world to mend incorporating the involvement of rep­ty in the country. This comprehensiveWisconsin System in Novembec In addi­and general counsel. to co-chair this Council. form labor unions and engage in collecli ve resentatives of local non-governmental orga• approach should help provide the University tion. the Task Force would like to have an This is a prominent leadership position with­bargaining with their employers. Similarly. nizations ("NGO"s"'), such as church offi­with reasonable comfort lhal its licensed opportunity to review and discuss a much in the national anti-:sweatshop movement and the constitutions and laws of most countries. cials. human rights activists and labor leaders products are not being made under unaccept­anticipated report 011 the living wage issue a testament to the leadership Notre Dame has and the United Nations' Universal into the University's monitoring process. 

able labor conditions. More importantly. itfrom the United States Department of Labor. and continues to demonstrate in this move­Decforation of Human Rights. widely Given Noire Dame·, unique position as will help improve the lives of 1hose workers which is expected to be issued in the near ment. acknowledge that the right to associate freely an internationally known University, its ties around the world who manufacture Notrefuture. before making any recommendations RAPP Project. Notre Dame was the first is fundamental and should not be infringed. to the Catholic church and its network of Dame products, which is not only morallyto you on this issue. college or university to join the American The University of Noire Dame. as a Catholic contacts around the world, especially in the correct but also consistent with the social SUMMAR\' OF ACTIVITIES Apparel Manufacturer's Associution instittilion of higher learning. is nalurnlly NGO community. we believe the University teachings of the Catholic church and funda­During 1he last len months. in addition to Responsible Apparel Production Principles committed to upholding the social teachings is uniquely situated to incorporate the mental 10 the mission of Notre Dame.

di!-lcussing the issues set forth above and ("RAPP"') project, which is aimed at ce11ify­of the Church and to the rule of law. The involvement of NGO representatives into its Of course, no Code of Conduct and nodeveloping recommendations. the Task ing factories as no-sweat workplaces. At our Task Force believes that the cnosl effective monitoring process in a bold and innovative monitoring plan will ever be a panacea.
Force has been engaged in a wide variety of request, adidas America !ms nominated two and efficient way to give voice 10 these com­new way. 
Whatever system the University developsactivities designed lo educate ourselves and of its Mexican factories for possible RAPP mitments in the context of the anti-sweatshop To that end. the Task Force recommends and implements will not be perfect. Nothe entire Not;e Dame community concern­,ertification. debate is to insist upon the legal rights of the creation of a regional pilot monitoring Code can reasonably be expected to experi­ing the anti-sweat-.hop issue. We also have University Initiative with Harvard. OSU. workers to form labor unions. collectively progracn in tandem with our existing PWC ence 100% compliance 100% of the time. 

taken critical steps to make the University"s California. Michigan. The University has bargain and freely a~sociate, · monitoring program. The current thinking is Nor can any institution simultaneously mon­Code of Conduct more enforceable. A sum­joined forces with Harvard. Ohio State History has demonstrated that one of the that Central America and Mexico probably itor all conditions al all times in hundreds or mary of our activities follows: University. the University of California and only effective non-violent ways to improve should be the region for this pilot project. 
thousands of factories. Importantly, though. 

Catholic Teaching. Sweatshops and Notre the University of Michigan to undertake a wages, hours and working conditions of The University has strong personal and insti­Noire Dame and the Task Force are activelyDame. During the Fall 1999 semester the study of where and under what conditions lahorers over time is to give effect to their tutional relationships with many Church offi­working to address this cocnplex issue and Task Force co-sponsored a six session acade­our respective licensed products are made rights to collective hargaining and free asso­cials. human rights activists and NGOs struggling with the major questions it pre­mic symposium entitled "Catholic Teaching. throughout the world. Four NGOs have been ciation. In the absence of these rights. the throughout Central America and Mexico, sents. While we should be proud of theSweatshops and Notre Dame"' along with the retained as. consultants in connection with Task Force believes, employers enjoy loo We envision a pilot monitoring process national leadership position Notre Dame hasDepartment of Theology. the Kroc Institute this project. including Darn O'Rourke. great an imbalance ofpower in their relation­for the region selected which would include assumed with respect 10 this issue to dale, wefor lnlernalional Peace Studies and the whose disclosures concerning conditions in ship with their employees. and there is no a monitoring commillce chaired hy the chair must recognize that there still is much moreProgram in Catholic Social Tradition. The Nike facilities are well known. guarantee that the rights and needs of work­of the Task Force or nis designee and draw­for us to accomplish.
symposium examinei.l the complex issues Princeton and the Ivy Group. The. ers and their families will be a<.lequately pro­ing upon Notre Dame"s substantial contacts Th,mk you for the opportunity to serve thesurrounding the sweatshop debate from an University has joined forces with PrincelOn tected. The Task Force believes that this rec­and institutional knowledge of the region. 
University in connection with this importantacademic perspective. It was open to the and several other institutions from the Ivy ommendation is necessary in order lo help We would like to rely upon Notre Dame's and challenging project. Fr. Malloy. AfterNotre Dame community and the general pub­Group ofColleges in a pilot project designed ensure acccptuble wages and working condi­extcn-sive resources in this nrea to set up and you have had a chance to review this memo­lic. The symposium could be taken by Noire to train non-governmental or.ganizations tions over the long term for the laborers who administer the pilot project. Given the many randum. the Task Force would welcome theDame students for acai.lemic credil. The top­("NGOs"') to monitor factories for compli­manufocmre Notre Dame licensed products. academics and administrators on campus opportunity to discuss any aspect of it withics included many Df the issues the Task ance with codes ofconduct. especi.illy in the developing world, with strong ties to the region. we believe a you. In the meantime,, as always. please do Force was .ippointed to address. The sympo­Revised Purchase Order Terms. We have Nowbly. a number of countries. including monitoring committee coultl be assembled not hesili1te to contact us if we can be of fur­sium has provided a11 excellent oppol'tunity revised 1he University's standard purchase China. do no\ legally protect the rights of which would include an NGO representative ther ,Lssistance. Thank you.

for the entire Notre Dame community to order form. which governs most of the goods workers to organize and to free association. (e.g., a church official. human rights activist Inform and participate ir1 the recommenda­and services the University buys. to require This recomm~ndation. if adopted. would or labor leader) from each country in the tions of the Task force. Dr. Todd Whitmore that those goods not be produced in a·manncr effectively ban the ,mmufacture of Notre region where Noire Dame produ~ls arc made was the instructor for the course. which fea­which would violate our Code of Conduct Dame licensed products in those countl'ies nnd several represenwtives from the Notre tured national leaders in the anti-sweatshop for Licensees. unless or until their laws change with respect Dame campus. The PWC regional compli­
For the purpose of this recom­

movement. such as Sr. Rmh Rosenbaum. Public Relations Efforts. In addition 10 to these rights. We recognize that other ance manager for the region also should be mendation. the term "manufactured"' shall Ph.D.. an expert on the living wage. Michael undenaking each of these activities. we have groups (e.g., the Collegiate Licensing invited to sit on the regional monitoring not only include making or processing rawPosner. executive director of the Lawyer., attempted to focus public attention and Company and the FLA) which have exam­committee. A country such as Mexico, materials into finished products or goods butCommittee for Human Rich1.,. David inform public debate on the anti-sweatshop ined this issue have recognized the rights to which is geographically larger. more popu­also screen printing. embroidery, sewing.
Schilling trom the lnterfa~h Center for issue-both within the Notre Dame communi­organize and freely associate: however. they lous and likely produces the most product in assembly and any process by which the Corporate Responsibility. Chie Abad. a for­ty and beyond it. In this vein. in addition to have done so with "special country excep· the region, may have more than one NGO University~s name or other trademarks are mer garment factory worker in Saipan. and cosponsoring the symposium discussed lions'" in their respective codes of conduct. representative on the monitoring committee. 
applied to a product or good.

others. above. Task Force members have actively These exceptions tend to allow production in The regional monitoring committee 2 This international convention is aUniversitv of Wisconsin Conference on participated in the Progressive Student such countries as long as licensees commit to would work closely with University officials multilateral treaty which was adopted inthe Living Wage. Severn) Task Force mem­Alliance's Teach-In. written letters to the work with the governments of those nation­to determine which factories to audit in 1948. It establishes the right of all worker,bers participnted in rt planning session June Editor ofThe Observer. and given interviews states to attempt to affect changes in their which countries. Each auditing visit in the and employers to form and join organizations25 at the University of Wisconsin-Madison on the local level (e.g.. The Observer. The unacceptable policies. The Task Force region would be jointly conducted by PWC of their own choosing without prior autho­and a conference there November I8-22 on South Bend Tribune. Notre Dame Magazine. believes such special country exceptions tend monitors and a monitoring comrnillee repre­rization, and lays down a series of guaranteesthe issue of what consututes a living wage WVPE raJio, the Indiana radio i1etwork, to swallow the rule. and that lobbying by sentative (or her designee) representing a 
for the free functioning of organizations

for apparel factory workers. The goal of the WSBT and WNDU television) and on the licensees is unlikely to have much of an local NGO from the country in which the without interference by the public authori­conference was to identify means to calculate national level ( e.g., USA Today. The imp;1ct up011 the policies of entities as large factory being audited is located. since they ties..
actual living wage level., for workers in indi­Chronicle of Higher Education, The New and powerful as the Clunese government. will know the local culture. language and 3 This international treaty wasvidual apparel nmking coumnes. Task Force York Times). We also have met with student Therefore. the Task 1-'orce docs not recom­labor conditions. This will add credibility to adopted in 1949. It provides fur protection member Lee Tnvis, professor of finance. par­leaders on and off campus, ns well as work­mend any special country exceptions 10 this the monitoring process. especially if. as we against u111i-union discrimination, for protec• tic,pmed in the working grour on monitormg ers. religious leaders. human rights activists. recommendation. recommend, the Universitv selects well tion of workers' and employers' organiza­conditions in .ipparel factories. Professor husiness leader,. faculty members and others If adopted, we believe this recommenda­known, experienced and k°nowledgeablc tions against intcrkrence by each other. and Todd Whitmore made n presenwtion on to discuss the sweatshop issue. tion would make Notre Dame the first col. church officials, labor leaders und human for mcasur~s 10 promote colkctive bargain­Catholic sociul teaching on the wage issue us As you can see, in the ten months since its lege or university in the United States to rights activists as committee members.4 In ing.
part of" panel on the politics and legitimacy nppoinrment. the Task Force has· been insist unconditionally upon the right to orga­every case. all PWC and local NGO monitor­4 Several other initiatives in whichof the issue. He also has agreed to head a extremely involved in the anti-sweatshop nize and free ussoci,1tion in every location ing commJnee: members. as well as universi­Notre Dame is involved confirm the impor­University group slated to :-itudy rhe living movement. All of our efforts have been where it~ licensed product'., are ma11ufac~ ty committee members. ,hould enjoy equal tance of local NGO involvement in monitor•wage is!-iue in grcnter detail aimed tlt two overarching goals: ( 1) impruvt tureJ. tf this recommendation i• imple­11nfet1ered factory access when monitoring ing compli,tnce with Codes of Conduct. TheEl Salvador Fact Finding Trip. As you ing the labor conditions under which Notre mented. Notre Dame might lose licensees factories where Notre Dame products :ire FLA 's proposed monitoring system. forknow, from July 26-31. 1999. u delegation of name licensed products nre manufactured. who produce our goods in China and other made. They all should he .illowed ro partic• example, places centr.il emphasis on thetask force memhers !rnveled on a fact finding and (2) devising a system to provide addi­countries. and. although some of these prod­ipate in worker interviews (on-site and oft). 
involvement of NGO's in monitoring FLAtnp to El Salvador. T.;isk Fnrce members tional comfort to the University and its con­llcts could be produced by other licensees in tour factories ,md participate fully in every member institutions and companies.

Maria Canalas, Lee Tuvis. Jim Paladino. stituencies that the University's licensees :ind other countries. it could well result inn loss pha,se of each monitoring visil. Randy Similarly, the project we have joined withDennis Moore and Rill Hoye participated in their business partners are complying with of licensing revenue to Notre Dame. The Rankin, our contact at PWC. has said he ha, the Ivy Group is designed lo explore variousthe trip The group toured three apparel fac­Notre Dame's Code of Conduct. With these Task Force is mindful of this unfortunate no objection to this type of local NGO ways to train local NGO representatives totories tbal contract with .:tJidus nnd other goal~ in mind, the following consensus possihility, but nonetheless believes that the involvement: and, our recently revised Cude be monitors. finally, the Universitycompanie,,, interviewed current and former appears lo be developing in the Task force funJamcnt~I rights in issue are more 1mpor­has been drafted to permit this type of Initiative we founded with Harvardapparel factory workers um.I discussed facto­with respect to three of the issues you l,tnl than any loss of revenue which might approach 10 monitoring. The Task force rec­University has retained several NGO's as ry monitoring concept, with Catholic appoint.cd us to addtes,. result from the implementation of this rec· ommends that each worker interviewed at a consultants and monitors in its effort to learnCl1L1rch. labor uni.I 'hu1mm rights leaders and ummcndation. factor,-being monitored he given a copy of more ahoul the conditions under which eachactivists. We also met with a group of RECOI\II\IENDA TIONS PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF MANUFAC­the Code of Conduct translated into his or participating University"s licensed products church affiliated micro-entrepreneurs in the TURING FACILITIES her local language, as well as a husiues., card are heing made. 
San Ramone district of San Salvador. as well RIGHT TO ORGANIZE AND FREE The issue here is whether the University or other conlacl information on the inter­
12 

as a group of s1ud.:nls and alumru of lhe ASSOCIATION should require full public disclosure of all viewers and any regional monitonng com­Univcr,,ity. Among those with whom the The Task Force makes the following rec­sites where Notre Dame licensed products mittee members or university officials pai1ic• group spoke were the members of a model ommenJa1ton regarding the rights of workers are manufactured. As you know, in ipatrng in the site visit. This contact infor­monitonng pi1nel known as GMIES. which who manufacture Notre Dame licensed prod-November, 1999. the University requested mation could be used by workers to follow 
Thursday, January 20, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
RUSSIA 
Chechen conflict intensifies as forces push toward Grozny 
Associated Press 
GROZNY 

The Hussian military redou­bled its drive to conquer Chechen rebt. ls on · Wednesday, with troops fight­ing street by street in the capi­tal Grozny while helicopter gunships and caunons relent­lessly poundPd the southern muuntains. 
Lt. Geu. Gennady Troshev, Russia's dl"puty chief com­mander .in Chechnya, announced Wednesday that the war was expected to be over by feb. 26, although "nobody is giving the forcfls any tinn deadlines for ending the operation," the Interfax npws agency reportPd. lie did not explain how he arrived at that date. 
Federal forces pushed toward the center of Grozny from si>veral directions. trying to squeeze rebel fighters into an ever-tightening circle, the military sai.d. 
It was impossible to verify the army's claims of progress. Ri>portcrs are constrained from moving freely about the capital because of the danger and the restrictions imposed by both the Russian and Chechen sides. 
But an Associated Press reporter watched Wednesday as Hussian forces in a north­wnstcrn neighborhood called Mikrorayon-3 seized several shell-punctured, five-story apartment buildings. They failed to take nearby nine­story buildings, from which Chechen snipers kept up a steady barrage of bullets. 
Russia's military command said 23 soldiers were killed and about 50 wounded in the past throe days of fighting in Grozny, the ORT television channel reported. 
Russian jets rained bombs on the city throughout the day, sending d!'afening roars echo­ing through empty streets. 
Grozny has bflen a bastion of rebel resistance throughout the war, whi.ch has entered its fifth month, and its capture would give the Hussian forces a boost after a series of sur­prise counterattacks by the rebAls. 

But control over Grozny could backfire, as it did during the 1994-96 bloodshed· in Chechnya. During that war, Russians touk the city and hf'ld it for more than a year, but lost it to the Chechens in a humiliating and bloody defeat. 
After facing relatively little resistance in Chechnya's northern lowlands, Russian forces have been stalled at Grozny for months and only recently began pressing into rebel strongholds ,in the south­ern mountains. 
On Wednesday, Russian heli­copter gunships and artillery pounded the steep, wooded mountain slopes near the mouth of the strategic Argun Gorge, about 30 miles south of Grozny. An AP reporter took shelter behind some rocks on the edge of the village of 
Dachu-Borzoi as helicopters swooped down to strafe the 
woods. 
Eleven civilians were killed Tuesday in an air ra.id against Daehn-Borzoi. including seven members of the family of local administrator Alu Khasayev. 
At the edge of the nearby vil­lage of Duba-Yurt, a knot of elders crowded around Russian officers on Wednesday, pleading for an 1rnd to shelling. Adam Akhyazov, chief administrator of the village, said three civil­ians had been killed in Duba­Yurt over the past two days. 
"When people want to leave the village, the Russians pre­vent them, promising not to target the village," he said. 
Meanwhile, a pro-Moscow Chechen leader claimed Wednesday to be mediating in talks between several Chechen warlords and federal authori­ties. Malik Saidullayev said thi> talks were proceeding "with difficulty," the ITAH-Tass news agency reported. He refused to say which federal agencies were involved in the alleged negotiations or to name the Chechen comman­ders. 
"(The federal authorities! need to carry out a political dialogue with these people, which is what I'm doing," Saidullayev told Echo of Moscow radio. 
Government spokesman Andrei Korotkov confirmed that four Chechens had arrived in Moscow for talks on conditions for civilians in the breakaway republic, but said they did not constitute an official delegation. 
"Negotiations are held con­tinually," Korotkov told the AP. "As for these envoys, we don't know whom they represent." 
Russian troops marched .into Chechnya in late September after rebels staged armed incursions into the neighboring Russi.an region of Dagestan and allegedly organized the bombing of several apartment buildings, killing 300 people. 

The University of Noire Dame Department cf Music Guest Artist S...ies present. the 
Nt~nl>~rg-Ici2 
2:00 p.m. Sunday, January 23, 2000 
Annenberg Auditorium Snite Museum of Art 
Piono Trios by Faure, 
8eeihoven & Mendels,ol,n 
Tickets required: 
$3 student., $6 5e'1iors $8 ND/SMC, $10 general Tickets avaaable at the lafortune Box Office, 
(219) 631-8128 
fOf rnor. informotion: 
(219) 631-6201 or -.nd.edu/-music 


THE TASTY CHICKEN CLUB IS HERE TO STAY, 
One bite of the delicious Chicken Club, and you'll always crave the flavor of its al1-whrte-meat chicken topped with crispy bacon, fresh lettuce and tomato ar1d mayonnaise. And that's no pmblem. because now this ultra-satisfying sandwich is here to stay at BURGER KING'. So come on in and Indulge your craving. 


The Huddle -LaFortune Student Ce-iter IT JUST TASTES BETlER~ 
www.burgarking.com 
PARTICIPATION MAY VAP:Y. 


PICK ONE OR MORE 
Clinic held at Notre Dame Golf Course Register in Advance at RecSports $5.00 Charge 
Wear Layered Clothing and Warm Gloves 
Equipment Rental Available -$4.00 Charge to be paid at the Golf Course on the day of the clinic. 
R~~ 
page l 0 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, January 20, 2000 

What more do you need to know? 

SAVE UP TO 40% ON TEXTBOOKS. 
Savings off distributor's suggested price. Books delivered in no more than three business days. Some restrictions apply. See site for details. 

Thursday, January 20, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11
I
I 
Kennedy relative surrenders to cops 
accused of apathy and inepti­

Associated Press 
tude.· A special prusecutur quit partly in frustration ovPr
BRIDGEPOHT. Conn. 
unproven claims there had

/\ nPphew of' Robert F. 
been payoffs aimed at thwart­Kenn11dy was charged 

ing the probP. Skakel's father.

Wednesday with bludgt~oning a 
Rushton. is the brother of

girl to drath with a golf' rlub in Hobert F. K1rnncdv's widow.
I 975 when he was 1!J. pruvid­Ethel. .
ing the long-awaited break in a As the years went by and no rase thaL frustratt~<l police in 
arrests were made. rumors of aweal thy (;rcenwich and raised 

Kennedy cover-up circulated insuspicions of' a 

Greenwich.

K c n n e d y 
Tho idea that 

rovrr-up. "Michael [Kennedy! has 
someone

1\1 i c h a e I 
stated all along he did might have

Skakel. 39. 
gotten away

f'lpw to not do this. He had no 
with murder

ConnecLicuL knowledge ofit." in this com-
from his homt> 
munity of

in Florid,1 and 
wealth and
Michael Sherman 

surrendernd 
privilege

al Greenwich Kennedy's lawyer made the casepolice head­the subject ofquarters af'tn a TV movie 
a warrant was issued !'or his and the books "A Season in
arrnst in the slaying of Martha Purgatory" by Dominick Dunne/\1oxley. Because of Skakel's age 
in 199:1 and "Murder in

at the time of tbe crime, the Greenwich," by former Los
cast• will be handled. at least 
Angeles Deterlive l\lark

initially. in juvenile court. 
Fuhrman. in 1998.

"Michael has staled all along 
Investigators got their big

he did not do this." said his 
break during the past year.

lawvcr. Michael Sherman. "Ile 
whr.n a one-man grand jury

hact' no knowledge of it. Hr. had 
heard testimonv from former 

no part in it. Ile is not guilty." 
patients at the ·man school. a

BPcausP SkakPl was a juvenile 
substance abuse treatment r,en­

at the time of' the crinrn. it was ter in Maine that Skakel attend­
not immediately dear 
r. d from 1978 to 1980.

Wednesday what penalty he Prosecutors filed court docu­
could l'ani. 
ments that said Skakel admittedMartha was beatnn with a 6­killing Martha to fellow stu­

iron and stabbPd in the throat 
dents at Elan.

with a piece of the dub's shat­Prosecutor Jonathan Benedicttf~red sha!'t. The dub was quir.k­
said juvenile law prevented himly matr.hf'd to a set owned by 

l'rom identifying the suspect.

thn Skakel family, who lived But Sherman confirmed it was 
arross Lhc street in Belle 
his client.

Haven. an exdusive gated com­
The case could get stalled in

munity in the moneyed New 
j uvenilt> court for a year orYork suburb of Greenwich. 

more if Skakel's lawyer fights

But the investigation kept hit­
prosecutors' bid to transfer the

ting dead ends. and police were casP to adult court. 
Ki Aikido 
Mondays -7:30-9:30 Beginning February 7 


Demonstration January 24 • 7:4!;pm 
Rockne 219 
Register in Advance at RecSports Class Fee is $19 
Call 1-6100 for More Information 
R~~ 

New dietary standards target fat 
more straightforward." with a lower risk for coronary
Associated Press 

The 11-member advisory heart disease in some individ­committee that's writing the uals." The draft guidelineWASHINGTON new guidelines is including a specifies who those individuals Nutrition experts revising 
subtle change in wording are -men over 45 andthe government's dietary 
meant tu make the standards women over 55 -and says
guidelines want to tell 

more palatable to consumers: there is "little health benefit
Americans to limit sugary 

The current guidelines recom­for younger people." Moderate 
drinks and sweets and cut 

mend that people follow a diet drinking is defined as onedown on foods rich in saturat­that is low in total fat. The drink a day for women and noed l'ats such as meat and dairy new recommendation is for a more than two daily for men.
product<;. · diet that is ··moderate in total Before the guidelinesThe guidelines also would fat," but low in saturated fat become official. they must bespecify for the first time who and cholesterol. approved by the departmentsmight benefit from moderate The recommended maxi­of Agriculture and Health and

consumption of alcoholic 

mum fat intake won't change Human Services. The depart­
drinks -primarily middle­

-it will remain 30 percent of ments typically go along with
aged men and women ­

total calories, or 65 grams a the advisory committee's rec­acr,ording to a draft oftho new day in a 2,000 calorie diet. ommendations.
standards obtained by The But research by the food Panel members either

Associated Press this week. 

industry indicates consumers declined comment on the draft The revised standards also are put off by the term low-fat or did not return phone calls. 
will pul more emphasis on 

and see a T h eeating whole grains, fruits and 
moder­depart­
vegetables and will include a 

"The goal is not to get
ate-fat ments were
special section on food safety. 

diet as people to eat no fat. The recently
"These guidelines will be easier to sued by the

better than they have ever goal is to get people to 
follow. Physicians
been," said Margo Wootan. a manage their fat, to
even if Committeesenior scientist with the 
the fat control their fat." f o r
Center for Science in the 

content is Responsible
Public Interest. a nutrition 

the same. Medicine
advocacy group. Susan Borra
"The and other
First published in 1980, the 

goal is International Food groups that
guidelines are revised every not to get lnfonnation Council contend thefive years to reflect the latest 

people to committeedevelopments in scientific oat no is starked
research. 

fat," said Susan Borra, a with scientists biased towardFcderallv funded nutrition 
dietitian with the International
programs: including school meat and dairy products 
Food Information Council, the because of their ties to thoselunches and Meals on Wheels, food industry's consumer industries through research orare required to adhere to the research arm. "The goal is to advisory work. 
recommendations, and they 

get people to manage their fat, The lawsuit, which seeks toare also widely used by pro­to control their fat. We need to block the committee from
fessionals and dietitians in find the word that communi­releasing its recommenda­

advising consumers. 

cates that." tions. alleges that the guide­"Usually when they come up Wootan said the wording lines emphasize the consump­
for teview it seems like an 

change emphasizes that tion of meat. dairy and egg
opportunity for the food indus­"what's really important is to products, ignoring the specialtry to weaken them," Wootan 

cut back on is saturated fat." dietary needs of minoritysaid. "This time I think the 
As for alcohol intake, the groups. Many blacks, fordietary guidelines will actually existing guideline says "mod­example, are lactose intoler­... provide consumers advice erate drinking is associated ant.
that's a little stronger and 

White House sets new drug policy 
White House press secre­intrusion on the indepen­
Associated Press 

tary Joe Lockhart said the dence of networks. change should put "the pro­The guidelines set out
WASHINGTON 

gram on a track where it Tuesday are an effort "to
The White House drug pol­will get universal support." eliminate any misunder­

icy office set guidelines 

"They've revised their poli­standings and prevent anyTuesday to clarify its cy to no longer look at inference of federal intru­
arrangement with broad­

scripts or do changes in pro­sion in the creative process,"
casters who want govern­

gramming for credit before a said Barry Mccaffrey, direc­
ment financial credits for program is finished," he tor of the White House Office

inserting anti-drug messages 

said. of National Drug Control
into their programs. 

The office was responding Policy.
Under the new rules, the to recent fallout from the The new parameters stillgovernment will not review disclosure that the govern­require a 100 percent matchprogram episodes for such ment used financial incen­for every dollar the federal

credits until after the episodes 

tives to get TV networks to government spends on
have aired or been published. 

include anti-drug messages media outlets and continue
The office also said it would 

into their shows, in some to allow broadcast execu­
keep separate its process for 

cases even reviewing the tives to decide how to meetgranting financial credits from 
scripts before the programs this requirement. Namely,
its role in advising networks 

aired. networks can still receive
and producers on how to por­

The arrangement has been financial credit for the con­
tray situations involving criticized as government tent of their programs.

drugs. 

ff.) Allf!IBV vs Bal St./MIChi!lall/W8Slllll llllclll 
·<' i t;it/aJ us.Westem Miehiaan 1:, . , Men'sBaskBlball '· -J:/Salllldlll vs.Pillsburgh,.. ~ WtlmtJds inti Sa1un1aJ vs. lBinoiS 5:00ID~ . HIJCkBI 
satunla1 vs.Western Michigan 1:0011m 

page 12 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, January 20, 2000 
mom and dad 

ATM When you're broke, you look at things in a whole new way. 
So for textbooks and stuff, hit ecampus.com. You'll save up to 50%. And shipping's always free. 
ecampus·.com 
Textbooks & Stuff. Cheap. 
Win atrip to Jamaica for Spring Break. No purchase necessary. Sweepstakes begins 01/03/00 and ends 02/17/00. Open to US residents, 18 years and older. Void where prohibited. For details see Official Rules on www.ecampus.com or send aself addressed stamped envelope by 02/10/00 to: rJo Rolling Stone Spring Break, 1290 Avenue of the Americas, NY, NY 10104. (WA and VT residents may omit return postage.) 


P=c: QJ( C Q :..__ C a a & & < a u
¥ l 
Thursday, January 20, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 13 l 
. 
' 
Energy Department finds evidence of racial profiling 
Associaled Press 
WASHINGTON 

A six-month Energy Department investigation has found evidence of racial pro­filing and an "atmosphere of distrust and suspicion" toward Asian Americans at nuclear weapons labs because of the uproar over alleged Chinese espionage. 
Kut Energy Secretary Bill llichardson. vowing to stamp out such profiling, insisted Wednesday that Taiwan-born scientist Wen !lo Lee ,.vas never singled out or fired from his job at the Los Alamos National Laboratory because of his race. 
Nevertheless, Asian-American scientists widely believe they have been unfair­ly targeted because of their race since Lee ·s dismissal last l\1arch for security violations, according lo a task force report on racial profiling in the department. 
Lee, at the center of a three­year espionage investigation, was indicted in December for copying top-secret nuclear weapons files and remains in jail. awaiting trial. He has denied giving secrets to China or anyone else. While not charged with espionage, Lee could face life in prison if found guilty of the security violations. 
"While specific incidents and examples of racial profiling may differ from site to site, the general concerns and issues were virtually identical department wide," sa.id the report, ordered by Richardson last summer when the uproar over alleged Chinese espi­onage at weapons labs was at its peak. 
Despite directives from Richardson against racial pro­filing, managers and supervi­sors at the weapons labs ­Sandia, Los Alamos and Lawrence Livermore -and other DOE facilitiAs were found to question "tho loyalty and patriotism of some employes based upon racial factors,.. the report said. 
Yvonne Lee, a member of the U.S. Civil Rights 

Commission and a task force been proven but "we 're member, said there is "a gen­admitting to a problem, a eral sense of fear" among problem of perception, of mis­Asian-Americans of being trust." unfairly targeted. They cited To emphasize that such pro­as an example, she said, a filing "is never welcome" practice by Richardson the fBI to said there call Asian­"Asian-American would be a American department­
employees are feeling the 
scientists wide satellite­
sting."

simply linked "stand­because of down" in the their race Yvonne Lee coming weeks "to see if so employees
civil rights commissioner
they knew can focus on Lee." the issue and 
T o m discuss their Tamura, concerns. another task force member, Richardson also appointed said Asian-American scientists Jeremy Wu, former deputy related how counterintelli­director of the Office of Civil gence officials joked about the Rights, as a department Chinese connection in briefin­ombudsman on worker issues. gs to scientists. The briefers Since Wen Ho Lee's indict­would ask the scientists ment on Dec. 10, a growing whether they knew why them number of Asian-American wore so many Chinese restau­groups have come to Lee's rants in town. "Why for spying support, creating a defense of course," the briefer would fund and scheduling rallies. say, according to Tamura. These groups claim Lee was 
Richardson said no specific singled out because of his case of racial profiling has race. 
"I reject the view that racial profiling was present in this case," Richardson said, refer­ring to the Lee dismissal. 
Yvonne Lee, the civil rights commissioner, said she's reserving judgment on the matter. "None of us can say (at this point) this is racially motivated," she said of the Los Alamos case. 
But she said one thing is certain. "Asian-American employees are f'eeling the sting." 
And Richardson said the impact could be long-lasting. 
"This perceived hostile work ,rnvironment imperils an invaluable partnership between the Energy Department and Asian Pacific Americans. Worse ... [it] can foment a dangerous 'brain drain' where we lose our best scientists, hobbling our research quality, leading edge science and ultimately our national security." 
Already, he added, "We are not having as much success in r_ecr~iting top flight scien­tists. 
Get out of the cold, and warm yourself up with some hot coffee and snacks as you relax and listen to a local five piece Blues/Jazz band 
SATURDAY, JAN. 22 
8:00 PM -10:00 PM 
LAflRTINE STIDENT CENTER llllllll 

Entertainment Provided by the Pat Heiden Quintet. 

Woman's identity discovered 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY 

A woman who had been in 
an almost vegetative state for 
two years, with hospital offi­
cials never knowing her name, 
kept repeating four numbers 
when asked for a Social 
Security number. 
Last week, when a persis­tent nurse's technician asked again, she recited all nine. 
The numbers unlocked Mary Joyce Howard's identity and officials hope to see the 39­year-old reunited soon with family in North Carolina. 
Howard's lost years began· on Feb. 13, 1998, when she was run over and left for dead on Interstate 40 in far western Oklahoma. Authorities had reports of a person walking along the road, sometimes in traffic, and found her uncon­scious. She had no identifica­tion, so they named her Jane Doe. 
After surgeries and hospital stays, she was confined to a nursing home in a vegetative state. 
She began talking in July. Her speech is slow and hard to understand, but she got the nurses' attention when she objected to the name Jane Doe. She told them she was "Joyce." 
The latest breakthrough came when she was trans­ferred to Presbyterian Hospital with pneumonia. Nurse technician Jamie Carey befriended her and talked to her daily. When she asked for a Social Securitv number, Howard mumbled)our digits. Carey kept asking. 
A week ago, Carey clocked out but decided to look in on Howard before she left, and 

Annual March for Life 
Can't make it to Washington for the National March for Life, but you still want to 
voice your support for a greater respect for life in our society? Please join the local community for a peaceful, prayerful demonstration outside the Federal Courthouse in South Bend. Together we can change hearts and minds. 
Monday January 24, 2000, Noon to 1 :00 p.m. Meet on the corner of Jefferson and Main Street downtown. Signs will be provided -or you can bring your own. Questions? Call 232-LIFE (5433) Sponsored by St. Joseph County Right to Life and ND/SMC Right to Life 
she got the answer she want­ed -all nine digits of her Social Security number. 
"I think everything was starting to come back to her day by day." Carey said Wednesday. 
The Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation took finger­prints, which the FBI matched Tuesday, said Lorna Palmer, a spokeswoman for state inves­tigators. The FBI was unable to find a match two years ago, said Rick Spence, a criminalist supervisor for the state agency. This time, the Social Security number led to her identity, and authorities tracked down her father in High Point, N.C. 
Presbyterian Hospital and Skyview Nursing Center are raising money to have Howard transferred to a North Carolina nursing home. Howard also said she has a daughter and two brothers. 
Carey said Howard talked to her father Wednesday and looked forward to seeing him. The hospital wouldn't provide his name, saying he didn't want to be contacted. 
No one is sure how Howard got to Oklahoma or of the cir­cumstances that led to the hit­and-run that nearly killed her. Carey said the family indicat­ed Howard left North Carolina 20 years ago. 
Howard speaks a little bit more as time goes on, but her recovery will likely be limited, officials said. 
When asked the year, she first said 1998 and even gave her age as what she would have been two years ago, but she comprehends the year 2000. 
"She won't get a lot better," said hospital spokesman Dennis Gimmel. 
Carey said Howard told her, "I never thought I'd make it this far." 


_J 
rJllll___________...,.____--:;;..·-----------ii";jji----iiiiiiii--~-,C-'oiiooi-----.--=-.---iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiijjiii..=..a.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiijii,jiiiiii.....'-iiiiiiiiii==-::..-;;....-..------··---~-----··· 
VIEWPOINT 
page 14 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Nom Dame. IN 46556 024 Souch Dining Hall. Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EUITOR IN CHIU Michelle Krnp• 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Rpn  David Rogero  
As.~T. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Pcrelle  

NEWS EDITOR: T,m Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughrn SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EotTOR: M ichad Vanegas SAINT MtutY's EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lmz 
AD D£.SIGN MA..'IAGER: Bret Huclat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers Wrn Ao'IHN!STRATOR: Erik Kushro 
CoNTROLH.R: Tirnmhy Lane 
GRAl'H!CS EmToR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
OrncE MANAGER/GENERAL 1Nrn..............G31·747l fax...........................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING..............................•...... 631-6900/8840 
ob~erver@daIWin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.......................................631-4542 MANAGING EmrnR/Assr. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFflCE........................................631·5313 NEWS.......................... ··········· ............... ......631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631 · 5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SroRTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE........................................................63 J.-4 540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news ti-om the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather fur up-to-rhe 
minute forecasts 
weekly smdent reviews 
online features for spe•
advertise for policies 
and rates ofprim ads 
cial campm coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
co meet the editors and 
Augmt 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe indeprndem, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the srudents of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary·s College. Editorial contenr, including advertisements, is not governed hy policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Edi1or, Assistant Managing Editor and departmenr editors. Commemaries, letters and columns presenr rhe views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe ObseIVer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is enrouraged. Lemrs to the Editor must be signed and must include contacc information. 
Qumions reg,1rdir,g Ob;erver po/ides should be direct· 
u! to Editor in GngfM,chelk Kmpa. 
DILBERT 
OOGBERT INVESTMENTS 
FOR A 1% ANNUAL FEE I WILL INVEST YOUR MONEY WITH 
A CERTIFIED 
FINANCIAL 
PLANNER.. 


O
THE 

BSERVER Thursday, January 20, 2000 

I 

I 
L
-
~ 
,.­

Humanity is on both sides of the Rio 
El Paso.Texas, is a cily set up for movenwnt. Train tracks criscross its streets, serving several active cargo stations and at least one active passen­ger depot. Greyhound and other distance­traveling buses pull into two different stations. Trucks transport parts to be put together in Mexican factories. Interstate 10 streaks through downtown, inter­secting there with Interstate 54. Streets are cleanly asphalted and labeled with signs large enough to assist Mr. Magoo about the city. 
Juarez, Chihuahua, is a city trans­portationally distinct. Two-thirds of the roads in the city are not paved, and cars and buses dog the streets that are. Pedestrians and motor vehicles dodge donkey carts. even downtown. Trucks transporting completed manu­factured goods to the U.S. chug around the city. The clean, sleek tourist­attracting trolleys of El Paso contrast sharply with the recycled school buses that carry passengers around Juarez. Some still have familiar signs up: Do not distract driver. Do not use profane language. No standees permitted. 
The no standees sign particularly amused me as I rode, standing, on a packed bus back to the border from the colonia of Puerta de Anapra on my last day in Juarez. The other 10 partici­pants of the CSC's Border Issues Seminar and I were returning to the 
U.S.A. after Mass in the colonia. Anapra is the largest of Juarez's colo­nias, shanty towns where people live in self-built houses made from cardboard, wood or cinderblock, with no running water and pirated electricity. The resi­dents of the colonia are employed mostly by maquilas, factories run by United States companies. The average weekly income from the maquila is 


about $35, 
The reality of how little money that is came quickly, on the first day of the seminar, before we even saw the colo­nia. In groups, we were given a sce­nario based on actual people living in Anapra. My group's family was headed by a single mother with three children. Working on a rnaquila salary, we fig­ured that our average daily food bud­get was $1.60, if all of our earnings for the week went to food. 
Tim and Oscar, both volunteers with the Annunciation House Organization and our hosts for the seminar, took us over the border to a supermarket, where we learned exactly how far that money could stretch. The four of us walked out with a packet of tortillas, a bag of beans, a box of rice and one small tomato. We cooked lunch in the colonia, toting water in from a cistern outside to boil the rice. As we cooked a sufficient but uninspiring meal, I noticed that one of the groups, who had been given a different scenario, fin­ished off their meal preparations by slicing into a block of cheese that had cost more than our entire day's budget. 
For the first time the thought crossed my mind: Wait a minute, that's not fair! 
It was certainly not the last time any of us thought or said that during the ensuing live days. We saw all kinds of injustices: children limited to fifth-or sixth-grade educations because their families can no longer afford their schooling, mothers forced to the lone shelter for women in Juarez by sexual threats from family members or by abusive spouses, United States employ­ers who first contact a shelter to offer work to immigrants and then threaten to call immigration authorities to avoid having to pay them. 
I had expected to encounter injus­tices when I signed up for the seminar, but I encountered a lot of surprises, too. While in the colonia, we spoke with Cristina, a mother of four children whose husband was leaving soon for the United States. She told us that she never imagined that he would have to leave Mexico to be able to provide the most basic things for their children. 
Another man we talked to at Annunciation House. the slwlter in El Paso for undocumented immigrants, said he had been working in the United States for years without papers. He'd gone back to visit his wife and his nine children in Chiapas and was returning to the U.S. just for another year or two, he said, until he had saved enough money to be able to go home for good. We never met with anyone who was looking North for anything but a job. 
No one wanted to settle here or raise children here. That surprised me. Despite the utter poverty in the colonia, the normalcy and the happiness that never quite reached contentment of life there surprised me. The attitude of the Border Patrol agent with whom we spent an entire morning surprised me. He admitted freely that the U.S. depends on an immigrant workforce and that the Border Patrol is helpless to completely stop illegal border cross­ings. 
My time on the border was short, but the seminar accomplished what l hoped it would. I have a much better understanding of the problems that make people want to come to the U.S. from Mexico. It is work and little else. I had anticipated feeling differently about the border and about illegal crossings. 
I had wanted to come back with some hopeful idea as to how the problem could be solved. I know now that even people who have been there for years still haven't figured that out. They strive for a personal interaction, a lit­tle-boy-throwing-starfish kind of approach to helping the poor and the undocumented. 
Over and over again, the people we talked with said, "Somos todos her­manos." {We are all brothers and sis­ters.} That's what I tried to take away from the seminar, the humanity of all people, on both sides of the Rio Grande. 
Kate Rowland is a senior. 

The views expressed in this colum.n are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe ObsPrver. 
E 
0 
0 ~ 
.. 
@ 
e
.. 
-0.. 
8 
" E 
0 
0 
t: 
GI 
g 
i 


SCOTT ADAMS 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
(J 
£
HE'LL CHAR.GE 1% 
,,; 
WILL I 
al 

1 DON'T
0
PER YEAR TO PUT 
'6 
MAKE
C 

SEE '(OU
>. 
(/)
YOUR MONEY IN ANY DOING

~ 
MUTUAL FUNDS 
MONEY? 


"How strange when an illusion dies.
~., 

ANY OFTHAT CHARGE 1% 
It's as though you ·ve lost a child. " PER. YEAR. 
Judy Garland American singer and actress 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THF Thursday, January 20, 2000 BSERVER page 15 
What is left of King's dream? 
PHIIADELPHIA -The birthday of Martin Luther King. Jr. marks a familiar annual American ritual of remembrance and celebra­tion. Millions of dtizens of all racial and ethnic origins arc encouraged to roilect upon the amazing Ronald Kim achievements of King and the civil rights movement, and more broadly. what it University of moans to be an American. 
Pennsylvania

Many critical {or cynical) obsPrvers have nott>d tht> more insidious undertone of this national holiday: the implication that the days of racial injustice -specifically against black Amer.icans -are behind us, that the dis­grace of "separate hut (unlequal" ended a long time ago. But I'm not going to reiterate these objections which, after all, have more to do with the politics of American society than the life and death of a great leader and visionary. 
Instead. I'm going to talk about the kind of plan~s whim~ King's dream nevPr comes 
close to being dreamt. A couple of monlhs ago, I 1rn1t an old classmate 
who is now working on the Pe~nn. campus. I hadn't talked to him for almost two years and was surprised to find out that he was also teaching at a middle school in North Philadelphia. 
Though I didn't grow up in a neighborhood like the one around my friend's school. I thought I had a prntty good idea of what conditions there were like. Man, was I wrong. 
Kids coming to school high -if al all -or tlw selling or drugs vou'vn rnwer ;,ven heard of in the bathrooms and hallways. Twelve-year­old girls giving birth in thn cafeteria. A majority of stu­dents can't even read at a fourth-grade level. Over three-quarters of black males dis­appear from the Philadelphia pub­lic school system between the ages of 10 and 18, many literally lost from the records. 
One can d~bate end­lessly who is to blame for allowing conditions to deteriorate to the point more damage to children who desperately need real answers and hope, not worthless platitudes and political soundbites. Rarely in a suburban high school would you see a banner proclaiming the survival of the American Dream. It would seem not only unnecessary, but almost laugh­able. Why broadcast the obvious? 
Consider on the other hand what happened to Kozol in the l C!60s, when he dared to have stu­dents in a poor grade school in Boston read Langston Hughes' almost equally famous words about "a dream deferred." He was promptly relieved of his teaching position for including "inappropriate material." 
Once again, Kozol points out, suburban schools place no such restrictions on their curricula. One poem by a great writer of the Harlem Renaissance poses no threat to the minds of young, well-off, mostly white children, who are more likely to reflect on how they might not grow up to be an astronaut than on the contra­diction of being poor in the richest nation on 
earth. 

To be sure, as author Walter Mosley argues in his most recent book, this is beginning to change now that more and more white Americans are losing control of their lives and finding themselves vic­tims of HMOs, corporate downsizing, globalization and other consequences of The Svstem. But the racial and economic gap isn't going away anytime soon, not as long as we refuse to face the tragedy of inner-city neighbor­hoods. Children don't know much about politics or the workings of the outside world, but they are often more keenly observant of hypocrisy than adults. For the children of North Philadelphia and many other urban hellholes around the coun­try, King's birth­day -meant to be a celebration of all the moral and social progress that has been made against racial oppression and inequality ­has become yet another painful reminder of a world beyond their reach. To those children, and to those who sus­pect that I have done a disservice to the name of 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

There are reasons for 'mysteries' 
I enjoyed Laura Petelle's column in Wednesday's Observer and wanted to respond to three of her questions. 
There are no clocks in O'Shaughnessy Hall because when there were clocks, people took them. For a couple of years, battery-operated docks were on the wall in every classroom. They were put in when -believe it or not -the bells that sig­naled the beginning and end of class time were mercifully silenced. The clocks were on the back wall, too, where teach­ers could see them and students couldn't, which was very nice. About half of them "walked" the first year and were replaced. Substantial quantities were liberated the second year. They were replaced. By the third year, whoever was responsible for clock replacement must have given up. Eventually they all dis­appeared. 
The no food/no drink signs in DeBartolo Hall are there pre­cisely because "we are incapable of cleaning up after our­selves after we eat." Know what happens after all the students leave at the end of spring semester? The carpets in DeBartolo classrooms have to be cleaned! Wouldn't it be nice to use that money for something else? It might be enough for the Annual O'Shaughnessy Clock Replacement Fund! 
Lastly, some of us pronounce it "Notre" because it is "Notre" and not "Noder." Granted, some people have trouble with that final "e" and it comes out "Notra" which doesn't sound very nice. Those people should take a semester or two of French. Please don't suggest that if we say "Notre" we should also say "Dahm." That would be going too far, except in reference to the cathedral in Paris. Personally, I think "Noder" is fine for football, and I always say it that way in that context. 
Ursula Williams Director, Language Resource Center Radio Announcer who says "Notre" January 19, 2000 

of dHspnrate inhumanity. the great Southern preach-But there is no question er, consider this: In 1964, a that these children grow up leader of a very different black on blocks wlrnre the only func­civil rights movement angrily tioning tractis of social organiza­
declared, "I don't see any tion are liquor stores and drug­American Dream. I see an American dealing operations. This is probably nightmare." 
the worst imaginable environment for fos­tering snlf-flsteem, hope or academic pnrfor­
mance. 
Imagine walking down the block to a school that hasn't seen repairs, new lab equipment or (in the worst cases) new books in decades and seeing a banner proclaiming that "The Amerir.an Drnarn is Alive an<l Well at 'Ilood High." And for MLK's birthday, someone in your class is asked to read that famous "I have a dream" speech all over again. And nobody dares discuss the true meaning bPhind those words, to ask whether that dream will be realized anytime soon -not to mcnti<>n tho struggle against segregation in a school whose students' faces make a mockery of Brown v. Board of Education. 
As award-winning educator and writer Jonathan Kozol points out in the book "Savage Inequalities," such empty slogans cause even 
By the time of his assassination four years later, King was starting to agree. Walking through the garbage-piled streets of Harlem in 1967, seeing despair far beyond any he'd encountered in his years of leadership, the great' idealist expressed doubts about the realistic chances of his dream. 
It was then that he, in one historian's words, "began to understand something of the world that created Malcolm X." 
Ronald Kim is a fourth-year Linguistics graduate student at the University of Pennsylvania. This column first appeared in the Daily Pennsylvanian and is reprinted here cour­tesy ofthe U-Wire. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and nut necessarily those of The Obserner. 
Just write 1t.• 
viewpoint.!@nd.edu 
.:sz 
O
THE 

page 16 BSERVER Thursday, January 20, 2000 
_..JS a a 


MOVIE REVIEW 
'Fantasia' makes big splash into millennium 
By LAURA PETELLE 
Scene Movie Criri, 
"Fantasia 2000" opens with a good but not great sequPncP set to part of Ludwig van Recthoven 's Wflll­known "Symphony Nu. 5," featuring butterfly-like trim1­gles having a battle of sorts. Thr vignette is fairly "Fantasia 2000" 
dark and evfln frightening at times, but of course tbe good butterriies make it out OK in 


.the end. out of five shumrocks 
Thr opening of Director: Hendel Butay, Francis the sequence is not Glebas and Paul Brizzi as good as thf' opening J.S. Bach 
piece in the original On IMAX until April 30 "Fantfisia." Some of the animation does not fit the music. and sometimes it seems that the soundtrack and picture are just a frac­tion of a second off. But things improve. The music for "Fantasia 2000" is performed by the world-famous Chicago Symphony Orchestra, conducted by James Lrvine. It features eight sequences, including Paul Dukas's familiar "The Sorr.erer's Apprentice." Unfortunately. "The Sorcerer's Apprentice" is slightly grainy in the IMAX format, sinre it was drawn for a smaller screen. It was never my favorite sequence in the original "Fantasia." sol was surprised by how wel_l-done it was. and by how dark it was. Mickey Mouse chopping up the evil broom with an ax is definitely scary, as is the mindless procession of the brooms to pour the water into the overflowing cistern. The second episode in "Fantasia 2000" is a danco of whales set to Ottorino Respighi's "Pines of Home," a piece which will probably be unknown to most audi­ences. The music and animation fit together startlingly well, and the whales do an exceptional job capturing the changing mood of the music. The flying whales are ini­tially a little off-putting, but as the song continues, it captures one's imagination. The finale of the piece, where the whale swim in the clouds, is particularly majestic and moving. What "Pines of Rome" takes advantage of -and indeed, what most of "Fantasia 2000" takes advantage 

of -is tho ability or animation to takfi viewers to places they can only imag­ine. So many animatml movies merely present a story thai could just as easi­1v be told in live action. "Fantasia 2000" takes viewers into the realms of tbe imagination. showing things that could n(wer b0 !'Wen in "rnal lil'c" or even in live action with really good special effects. 
Less imprnssiv1! was Dmilri Shostakovich's "Piano Concerto No. 2: Allegro. Opus 102," which was ani­mat!'d with the storv of I!ans Christian Andersen's "ThP StP-adfast Tin Soldier." The animalion and music tit wr,ll together, and the story was com­pelling, with the one-legged tin soldier meeting the ballerina. initially think­ing she has only one leg as well. lie discovers she has two. but she doesn't care about his deformity, and he man­ages to dcfcitl the <Wil jitck-in-the-box Photo courtesy of Disney and win her heart. It was a nice 
Mickey Mouse stars again in "Fantasia 2000." 
enough story, but it was so Disney ­very much the type of story one expects from Disney, using the style of animation that is so associated with Disney. 
The two-minute finale to Camille Saint-Saens's "Carnival of the Animals" features a free-spirited namingo with a yo-yo who manages to confound his stodgy peers. It is two minutes of pure, joyful silliness, and the theater was laughing out loud. 
Sir Edward Elgar's "Pomp and Circumstance, -Marches l\'o. 1, 2. 3 and 4" was one of the bost pit1ces, despite the merciless cutting and pasting of' the various marches. Most moviegoers will recognize Elgar's "Pomp and Circumstance" as ·'that graduation song," but "Fantasia 2000" turns it into a Noah's Ark story featuring Donald and Daisy Duck. I expected this sequence to be silly (I mean. Donald Duckl. but the animators gave it a sur­prising nobility, as well as a few moments of silliness. And in case you're concerned, we never see Noah's face. 
One of the best sequences in the film was George Gershwin's "Rhapsody in Blue." It's animated in a style reminiscent of Al Hirschfeld, the caricaturist. It features four characters in 1930s New York. each of them unhappy and unfulfilled. It's unbelievably imaginative, and makes "Rhapsody in Blue" into a poignant story of despair and redemption. And trust me, you'll love it when the overbearing wife gets her due. 
But the best piece of' the entire film is the finale, Igor Stravinsky's "Firebird suite." Disney chose not lo use the traditional Hussian fairy tale in animating "Firebird." and made the lirebird into an evil volcano being, but the sequence is so stunning that they're for­given. It features an elk and a woodsprite who bring life to a forest. onlv to have the lirebird/volcano destroy everything, plu~ging the woodsprite into despair. But the fllk convinces her to bring renewal to the forest. The entire episode is dizzyingly gorgeous. Parts of it are dark. parts are joyful. evoking a full range of' emotions. The woodsprite is a marvelous use of animation, a con­stantly shifting and whirling, vaguely fmnale-shaped character. 
"Fantasia 2000" is confined to IMAX screens until April 30, which means the closest place to see it is Chicago. See it on the IMAX screen. despite the high price of tickets. Being plunged into the lush animation by the enormous screen is breathtaking, and the IMAX sound system is the closest thing to a concert hall I've ever heard for canned music. Some of the clarity of the low bass is lost, but the brass is bright, the woodwinds reedy, the strings warm and the percussion incredibly clear. 
Semester -A..f11 /a--Olance: Spring a;t SMC 
"Summer & Smoke."
ND students: Take April 13-16: 

1\J.li;il 12-16: "The Love of the Nightengale.tt
the triplo SMC 
SMCers, stay at 
Music 


March 24: Opera Scenes.
home. Just have 

April 1: Fleur de Us: ''April in,Paris." 
some fun. 
4J:•·-•spr1~·i~tt4:al•--•cµti~:~fl.:·;·.·." 
.\:Ji(P
Moreau Galleries 
"Conservatory of Dance

Jan. 21 • Feb. 18:, ,Works on paper by Cecilia Ann Kelly, CS.(;. 
Feb. 2$ -March 24'. Prints by Ani1;a:.Jutig. I¾<!:·:;; i _ -.. ·· ·· -­
Feb. 25-March 24: Chasing tfreJdeal: -:~i!i1!~!~i:r.~~;µh~mdre'Pa;erit$Weekend. Women on Ea.ting Disorders. Ff-h. 25-27: Little Sibs Weekend. May 5 • August l; Tapestries by Mary Zicafoos·e. March 11-19: Spring Break, · 
A;_prH 7~9'.'Ji.ltin:1rMorn•s•Weeke1:1tL 
Theater Productions 
April21-24: E~~ter 8reak.
Feb. 3,5: Keenan lfovue. 
Feb 18·29: ZOth-CenturY:.Dan~e Retrospec.tive. 





Movie Title Weekend Sales 
1. 
Next Friday $ 16.9 million 

2. 
Stuart Little $ 12.S million 

3. 
The Hurricane $10.5 million 

4. 
Girl, Interrupted $ 9.3· million 

5. 
The Green Mile $ 8.8 million 

6. 
Galaxy Quest $ 8.5 million 

7. 
The Talented Mr. Ripley $ 6.8 million 

8. 
Supernova $ 6.7 million 

9. 
Toy Story 2 $ 6.6 million 

10. 
Any Given Sunday $ 5. 5 million 


coum•s)' of Yahoo! 

Hey you! 
Get off your butt and write for Scene. 
Call Mike at 1-4540 or email scene@nd.edu 
.. ~------------....-.-.----•ws•-•-...------""•--. 

e I 


O
THE 
Thursday, January 20, 2000 BSERVER page 17 
HOLIDAY MOVIE WRAP 
Three-hour flicks flood holiday theaters 
A side from tho kiddio flicks, this past J-l.holiday season was marked by a bar­rage' or tlmw-hour epic films. hoping for Oscar attention and big box oflico num­bers. I lflrn are a the m,~jor tilms that made np,ws ovor the past month. 
"Man on the Moon" 
A performN who seemed to thrivn on controvrrsy stemming from his unconven­tio1rnl routines and attt>mpts at humor, Andy Kaufman was pPrlmps thn best cine­matk dolinition or the old saying about a riddlP wrapped in a mystery insidA an cnignm. 
"Man on I.he Moon" is an c~piso<lic and moslly satislYing look at the conmdian and his many antics. Nam1id aftPr a song by 
B.F.M. and din:clf:d by Milos Forman ("Amadeus"), the film comes off as not much morP than a imprnssivcly recreawd highlight reel of Kaufman's more famous and infamous routine's and appearances. 
Without il ever rnally fully explaining his artions or gPtting th(' audiPnce to truly c,Ln' about him. tlm film often !\eels as if it's missing sonw soul. 
llow('vrr. Jim Carrey's performance (a guaranterd Oscar nominalionl is a certifi­ablr triumph of physical imitation. His "Andy" is so good and doad-on that any­one rnmot(~ly familiar with the late romir. may oftrn forget it's not Kaufman himself. 
Wlwrc tlw film may disappoint viewers is in the fart that like manv other films about conwdians (such as ~l'unchline"l. this onn is rarPly outrageously hilarious. and actually only olfors a fow truly runny monmnls. And although a clever opening starl-; the film off with a great bit, the rest or film dfwsn'l livo up to anything Kaufman himself would havr, approved of. 
For those with no sense of' Kaufman's career or brilliance. this movie might act as a nice introduction. But fans or the comic· will !ind themselves frustrated by lhc lack of interpretation into the man's life and will probably look to documen­taries for a taste or the rnal thing. Three and a half shamrocks. 
Rel'iew by MA7TNANIA 

"The Hurricane" 
Through the sheer power of' his acting, DenZPI \V,tshington single-handedly ele­vates "The Hurricane." an ambitious but flawed movie based on· the true storv of Hubin "Hurricane" Carter. · 
Portraying Cartnr. a middleweight boxer wrongly accused and imprisoned for 20 ytiars for a 1966 triple murder. Washington giv(,S one of the best perfor­mances of his earner. one likelv to earn him an Oscar nomination. Thr"ough the courso of the film. Washington hurls through a range of emotions. IIe is proud and swaggering. frustrated. humiliated and broken down. and llnallv, still and smoldering. trying to contain ahate run­ning underneath his skin. 
llate is what Carter struggles against. WhPn the teenager Lesra Martin. played by Vicellous Heon Shannon, befriends the boxer. Cart<'r struggles to trust. In a world of li(1s and racism. Cartf'r is afraid to open up. afraid Lo believe in Lhe possibilities of love and goodness. 
Unfortunately, Washington's porfor­mancn is wasted in a movie, while at times riveting, is ultimately a fractured and even melodramatic work. To begin with. the film jarringly Hips between Washington's plight in prison and the efforts of three Canadians. That's right, Canadians -who are dr,terminf'd to prove h.im innocent. Whilc Wa.'>hington lighl'> up the screen. the Canadians. undi'rdeveloped and unani­matec!, come off as nothing more than a group ol' happy-go-lucky do-gooders 
Also not fully lleshed out is racist police­man Della l'csca. portrayed by Dan lfodaya, whose sole purpose in life seems to be to destroy Carter. Without adequate explanations for his motives, Pesca is about as cartoonish as a Uisney movie vil­lain. Three shamrocks. 

Review by JOHN CRAWFORD 
"The Talented Mr. Ripley" 

Dare to go where you've never been before. Such is the task Matt Damon took on with his subt!v maniacal role as Torn Ripley, a nobody ~vho wants to be a some­body. 
Set in 1950s ltalv, "The Talented Mr. Ripley" takes view.ers on a wicked trip inside the mind of a man who will do any­th in g to become anyone but himself. Initially narrating the film with regret, Damon introduces the unlikely thought that despite his murderous ways, Ripley is the film's hero, however tragic he may be. 

But once viewers become acquainted with the laid back lifestyle of the Mediterranean, the film's slow pace becomes enthralling. Little by little, view­ers watch Ripley envelope the people he admires, making damn sure no one gets in his way as he obsesses over his own noth­ingness. 
Jude Law plays Riplr,y's prime object of desire. American Dickie (ireenleat', whose tanned, happy-go-lucky demeanor becomes addictive even to viewers. 
Gwyneth Paltrow's Marge. Dickie's liancc, is a small but integral character. She is manipulated by Ripley. unguardedly allowing him into her and Dickie's lives. Eventually she sufiers because of this trust. 
Clearly, the homosexual feel of Damon's character provides an uncharaceristic twist considering the tough-guy image Damon has built in his films to date. But the fact that he pulled off the emotional weight.'> of a man in love and in lust with another man. with such believability proves that Damon is this generations true great actor. 
Several Oscar nominations are sure to come to "The Talented Mr. Ripley," prov­ing the film to be one of the big surprises of 1999. Four shamrocks. 
Review by MIKE VANEGAS 
"Magnolia" 

After viewing some very odd occur­rences in the opening scene of Paul Thomas Anderson's (writer, director and co-producer) "Magnolia," the narrator says, "these things just happen." The audience is not told that this line is taken from Anderson's first feature film "Hard Eight" and the full line is "these things just happen -you just deal with it." This is a major theme in "Magnolia." 
The storyline is based on the loose inter­action of nine main characters during one rainy day in California's San Fernando Valley. Tom Cruise plays T. J. Mackey, a "seduce and destroy" motivational speak­er who teaches men "How to fake like you are nice and caring." 
A live-in nurse played by Phillip Seymour Hoffman attempts to reunite Mackey with his dying father Earl Partridge, a game show producer played by Jason Robards. Julianne Moore plays his high-strung trophy wife. The game show Partridge produces has an alcoholic host Jimmy Gator {Phillip Baker Hall) for­saken by his daughter Claudia. wonderful­ly played by Melora Walters. She is the romantic interest of police otlicer Kurring (John C. Reilly). The. star of the game show is the "cute" brainiac Stanley (Jeremy Blackman). He reads up on the former star of the show quiz kid Donnie Smith played by William H. Macy. The movie is splendidly told by these charac­ters, though there is no clear cut star ­except behind the camera. 
Anderson is a writer in love with telling the whole story, he creates a viewer con­nection challenged by none. His binary dialogue nis both serious and humorous. Many MTV-attention spans and "fart joke" lovers will not catch Anderson's situation­al humor. As a director he is most con­cerned with the tempo of the film. He has a great ear for setting the pace, so much that at over three hours ("just deal with it") the film appears fast pacr,d, which is also a tribute to his segue skills. He is in love with long, held shots and extreme close-ups. 
Brilliant and original, look for "Magnolia" at the pndium of the Academy Awards. Five shamrocks. 
Review by JEFrREY Q. IRISH 

"Snow Falling on Cedars" 
"Snow Palling on Cedars" is a pretty film but it suffers from visual overkill. Based ., on the David Guterson novAI. it's part love story, part murder mystt'ry, and the direc­tor does an admirable job interweaving the two. Unfortunately, the skillful narra­tive can never breathe under the weight of it.-; imfl.ges. 
In director Scott Ilicks' follow up to the acclaimed "Shine," Ethan Hawke plays Ishmael Chambers, a journalist reporting on a local murder trial in which the accused is a Japanese fisherman. The set­ting is just after World War JI and most of the population is still paranoid around Asian immigrants. As the trial unfolds, Ishmael reflects back on his former Japanese girlfriend while deciding whether or not he can help against the town's prejudices. 
The trials of the Japanese-American are moving but most characters whither away as the imagery gets stronger. Hawke does fine but any actor with a beating heart could have probably taken his place. 
The film is pretty much what the title says: a movie of snow and trer,s. There's enough extraneous landscapes to com­prise many Kodak ads and while it looks sumptuous. the viewer can only watch so much before finally getting lulled to sleep. 
Three shamrocks. 
Review by GUNDER KEHOE 

"Any Given Sunday" 
"Any Given Sunday" is Oliver Stone's ("Platoon," "JFK." "Talk Radio") vision of professional football in the '90s. The story examines the stress and difficulty of an aging coach, Al Pacino ("Heat," "The Godfather" trilogy) and his geriatric quar­terback, Dennis Quaid ("Undercover Blues") who is replaced by a more youth­ful, athletic and controversial figure in Jaime Foxx ("The truth About Cats and Dogs," "The Jaime Foxx Show"). Foxx plays an arrogant player who has trouble keeping his lunch down and constantly in friction with the other players and coach­es. 
The audience learns of the intense pres­sure involved with a desperate Florida football team and their pursuit of home­game advantage for the start of the play­offs. With pressure from a young, beauti­ful and ambitious new owner, Cameron Diaz, ("The Mask," "Being John Malkovich," "There's Something About Mary") everyone involved with the team feels the pinch including the players. doc­tors and coaching staff. 
Stone takes viewers inside the player's world, which includes drug use, lavish parties an\i money-hungry women. It seems that everyone is after something. The players want more money, the train­ers want beautiful girls and the coach just wants everything to return to the way things were when the organization was winning. 
There was great potential for the film based on the stellar cast that included James Woods, Mathew Modine. Lauren Holly and Charlton Heston. But the sur­prise comes with the acting ability of some NFL greats who have bit parts in the movie. Dick Butkus, .Johnny Unitas. and Laurence Taylor give strong perfor­mances as men who have seen the indus­try firsthand, and acted in that fashion. The idea was good, but it wraps up too nicely in the end making it very unbeliev­able. To the film's credit however, the sound is fierce, which makes viewers almost feel the violent tackles and hits. 
Two shamrocks, 
Review by V. VAN BUREN GILES 
.....

F 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, January 20, 2000 
MLB 
Indians, 01anagement addressed by owners 
Associated Pres< 
Phoenix. Ariz. 

The proposed $320 million sale of the Cleveland Indians by Richard Jacobs to Larry Dolan was experted to gain approval from baseball own­ers Wednesday as they began two days of meetings. 
Dolan agreed to the deal Nov. 4. and the proposed sale has moved through baseball's approval process at record speed. 
Some sales have taken 6-18

.. 
months to bring to a vote, but the Indians' deal is simpler because the team is being bought by one person, not a group with cumbersome part­nership agreements. 
Shareholders ol' the Indians' holding company meet Feb. 7 to approve the sale, which is expected to dose bef'ore open­ing day. The price is a record for a baseball team. topping the $311 million paid by the Fox division of Rupert Murdoch's New Corp. for the Los Angeles Dodgers in 1998. 
The other big agenda item is the proposal to overhaul base­ball's management structure by eliminating the American and National league offices and placing all power in the commissioner's office. 
The changes won't alter anything on the field. but already have led to the resig­nations of AL president Gene Budig and NL president Len Coleman. whose jobs are being eliminated. 
The National League orga­nized at a meeting in New York on reb. 2, 1876. and the American League formed when the Western League. 
then a minor circuit, changed its name to the AL on Oct. 11. 
1899. 
It took a full season fur the junior circuit to gain national recognition, and it finally reorganized as a major league on Jan. 28, 1901. 
For two years, it fought with the NL over players, but the leagues met on Jan. 9, 1903, at Cincinnati and agrned to a peace treaty -which led after the season to the first World Series. 
While the leagues recog­nized each others contracts, they had separate presidents. umpires, officials. statisticians and balls -with most of the traditions continuing into the 1970s and beyond. 
And on the field, thl'y ml't annually in the All-Star game and World Series. 
But the distinctions started to blur when the AL moved from Boston to New York in 197 4 and the NL followed 
from  San  Francisco  three  
years l.ater.  
Commissioner  Peter  

Ueberroth ordered them to move into the same buildir.1g as the commissioner's office in 1985, and the staff of the com­missioner has increased from dozens to hundreds, dwarfing the league staffs, which remained under 10. 
Under the changes expected to be approved during the two-dav session. commission­Rr Bua' Selig's ability to fin11 teams .will be increased from $250.000 to $2 million. which should give him more leverage in dealing with balky owners; some of whom have refused to follow his guidelines to consid­er minorities for all GM and manager openings. 

Recovering Hayes joins Mets 
Associated Press 

After helping the New York Yankees win a World Series title, Charlie Hayes wants to win one with the New York Mets. 
The 34-year-old third base­man, who played hurt most of last season and considered retirement. agreed Wednesday to a minor league contract with the Mets that would pay him $500,000 if he makes the team. 
'Tm sure l'm not going to be ou I on the field evP-ry day." Hayes said. "but everyday I'm going to be prepared to play. If I'm only out there two times a we;ek, I'm going to make the most out of the opportunitiRS I do gp,t." 
With Todd Zcilc at first and Hobin Ventura at third, Hayes figures to be a backup unless there is an injury. 
He hit .205 with six homers and 48 RBIs in 264 at-bats last year, injuring his lel't wrist during the first week of the season when he tripped over the mound trying to field a slow roller and fell on his hand. 
"I didn't think that it was anything serious," Hayes said. "I played with pain before. It was a lot wors!l than I thought. It was my fault. I'm one of those players who tries to stay out of the training room. My job is to perform. I overlooked it." 
I !ayes. who had surgery on the wrist .July 5 and returned 16 days later, played with the Yankees when they won the Series in 1996. stayPd with Lhem the following year and then was dealt to San Franrisco. 
He has a .264 career aver­age with 233 doubles, 13S homers and 690 RBIs in 12 
sfrnsons with Philadelphia, the Yankees, Colorado, Pittsburgh and San Francisco. 
"He probably can be that guy who gives some protec­tion at first and third and also is a bat off Lhe bench," Mets general manager Steve Phillips s'aid. 
Hayes, who made $1.9 mil­lion last year, can earn an additional $200.000 in per­formance bonuses: $25,000 each for 100, 115, 130 and 145 games played, an $25,000 each for 350, 400. 4S0 and 500 at-bats. 
Boston Red Sox 
The Boston Hect .Sox on Wednesday agreed to terms with free agent outfirlder Marty Cordova, who was the J\L's Hookic of the Year in 1995 beforn becoming too pricey l'or the small-market Minnesota Twins. 
The 30-year-old Cordova was signed to a minor-league contract with an agreed-to salary if he makes the team in spring training. The Red Sox are at their 40-man llmit and will have to clear room for him before he can be added to the major-league roster. 
Other tcrms wero not immediately available. 
The Twins could have kept Cordova for $4 million, but they let him become a free agent instead. He said he had offers from other teams. but he chose Boston be<:ause they have the best·chance of win­ning. 
"Ever since was in Minneapolis. I was looking forward to getting to a team that had a legitimate chance to win the World SP.ries. This is a big change from Minneapolis, whero I was los­ing a lot of games," he said. "I want to be a part of a win­ning team." 
Cordova brings depth in the outfield and at designated hitter to a team that is losing Reggie Jefferson, Butch Huskey and Damon Buford. Carl Everett, who was acquired last month in a trade from Houston, is expected to play center field. 
"We needed more depth in our outfield," general manger Dan Duquette said. "Marty's been around the American League. He's experienced. And he's going into the prime of his career." 
Cordova hit .277 with 24 homers, 84 RBIs and 20 stolen bases in 1995 to be named AL rookie of the year. He followed that up with a .309 average, 16 homers and 111 HBls in 1996 and appeared headed for star­dom. 
But a l'oot injury plagued him during 1997 (.246. 15. Sl) and ()98 (.253, 10, 69). He began the 1999 season with a sore throwing shoulder and hit .28S with 14 homers and 70 HBis in 124 games as an outfielder and designated hitter. 
But the small-market Twins decided to let him walk rather than pay him $4 mil­lion contract for 2000. lie chosn to become a free agent rather than accept an out­right assignment to Triple-A Salt Lake City. 
"I told my agent from the get-go that I didn't want to talk to anv teams that didn't have a cl{ance to make the playoffs." he said. "I had a few offers with .other teams, but Boston's thff best offer with the team that had a chance to win." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
EARN $$$s FOR EVERY HOUR 96 Ford Ranger XL. 54k mi., CD Girly girls. MacIntosh Apple has red rosey You may tell the German college 
YOU SPEND SURFING THE player, man. trans. $7000, obo. Call cheeks that their honor comes too late, 
INTERNET.FOR DETAILS SEND Tony. 273-5319. Romaine Lettuce turns green when But they must not waste repentance
WANTED 
E-MAIL TO There are strange things done in she speaks on the grizzly savant's fate. WORLDWEB1 @GO COM the midnight sun by the men who Cherry Tomato has gorgeous red Though my soul my set in dark-
COACH: Need Jr. High girls coach· SPRING BREAK 2000 moil for gold. hair, ness, it will rise in perfect light. 
responsible,dependable,student or PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA The Arctic trails have the secret But I'm Mashed Potato and tall I have loved the stars too fondly to 
grad to coach 7-8th grade girls bas­FROM $149 PER PERSON SAND-tails that would make your blood down the stair. be fearful of the night. 
FOR RENT

ketball B-team.Jan-Mar;for south­PIPER BEACON BEACH RESORT run cold. 
side elementary scllool,located THE "FUN PLACE"! The Northern Lights have seen WISE UP, GIRL! OK: Poetry slam answers: 
near ScoHsdale Mall on Miami 6 BDRM HOME.FURN.AVAIL TIKI BEACH BAR ENTERTAIN-queer sights, but the queerest they 
Street. Must be available for prac­NOW.$150. PER. 272-6306 MENT BY BOOGIE INCORPORAT-ever did see Hi Emily Snow! "Cremation of Sam McGee" 
tices Mon-Thurs from 2:20· ED BIKINI CONTESTS MALE Was that night on the mage of Lake I forget the author 
3:15.Game schedule varies with 9-HARD BODY CONTESTS Lebarge I cremated Sam McGee. It's poetry slam night at The 10 games beginning after school at 2-6 BDRM HOMES.'00-'01 272-3 POOLS LAZY RIVER WATER Observer. "MacIntosh Apple" 4:00,or 5+p.m.Paid position.Call 6306 SLIDE Now Sam McGee was from anon 291-4200 to apply. HUGE BEACHFRONT HOT TUB Tennessee where the cotton Listen my children, and you shall 
MINI GOLF blooms and grows. hear of the midnight ride of Paul "The Ride of Paul Revere" 3 bedroom duplex GIFT SHOP SUITES UP TO 10 Why he left his home down South Revere Longfellow appliances,WID PEOPLE to roam round the Pole, God only 
SUMMER JOB WITH GIFTED 1 mile lrom campus knows. 'Twas the twentieth of April in "The Love Song of J. Alfred 
KIDS 273-8332 1 ·800-488-8828 He was always cold but the land of Seventy-Five; hardly a man is now Prufrock" 
Northwestern University's Center WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM gold seemed to hold him like a alive who remembers that famous T.S. Eliot 
for Talented Development is hiring spell, day and year. residential ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE Though he'd often say in his home-"Jabberwocky" counselors/TA's. Experience wlkids AND CLOSE PERSONAL ly way that he'd sooner live in hell. In the room the women come and Lewis Carroll pref.Room/board provided for coun­http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ go, talking of Michaelangelo. selors.Camp. salary,great work email:mmmrentals@aot.com Did anyone else see Rabbi Signer Sonnet 116 experience.6/25-8/32 + training.To 232-2595 and Father O'Meara eating lunch in Can you name the titles of all these Shakespeare 
apply, call (847)467·7884.Thank SDH yesterday? Hi Jeanine, Stella, Laura, Allie, poems? 
you. 6 BEDRM. '00-'01 Cynthia, and Maryl and authors? Bonus points for "The Old Astronomer to His Pupil" 
$1200/mo. 273-0482 A priest and a rabbi go into the din-authors Sarah Williams 
ing hall .. 

EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP­Buongiomo, Principessa1 "Twas Brillig, and the slithy loves Well, Lauren, I'm proud that you MENT CENTER www.thecommentator.com did gyre and gimble in the wabe made it through despite having Earn money and build resume FOR SALE Why are there so many people at all mimsy were the borogroves printer problems from hell. and a experience while interacting with this school who completely lack a and the momeraths outgrabe poetry slam in the classifieds. delightful young children.The Early Beautiful brass bed, queen size, Free CD of cool indie music when sense of humor? Things will work better next time. 
Childhood Development Center at with orthopedic mattress and you register at mybytes..com, the I don't like her hair. Really. Saint Mary's College.located in deluxe frame. New, never used, still ultimate website for your college Why do the printers in this office not Welcome back, Anne Marie. Havican Hall, is currently accepting in plastic. $235 needs work? Let me not to the marriage of true 
applications from college students 219-862·2082 minds "Use the force, Luke!" for part time positions.The hours The further unsolved mysteries of Admit impediments. Love is not vary.including 11 :30 a.m.-1 :15 p.m. Notre Dame. love "Doh!" on Tuesdays and Thursdays.If you '95 CAMARO, RED, T-TOP, Every time you go away, you take a Which alters when it alterations are interested in applying.please LOADED, 45K. MINT COND. piece of me with you. Noah is not on the promotion track. finds, "That's what they all say: They all contacl Arny Moskalick,Program $11,500 OR B/0. Or bends with the remover to say 'dohl"' Coordinator.at 284-4693 for more 219-291-5471. Phooey! remove. information and an application, That was a song lyric. How do you spell that? Oh not It is an ever-fixed mark. Ciao, Principessa! 
.... D : i 
Thursday, January 20, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
Real success in consulting is never just a flash in the pan. It takes creative, inventive thinking grounded in rock solid disciplines. Are you considering consulting as a career? Do you have the 'wiring' it takes to deliver the business solutions demanded by today's hyper-changing business world? 

Here's your chance to spark your own consulting thought process with a leader. The Arthur Andersen Business Consulting Case Competition 2000 is a unique opportunity for Notre Dame freshmen, sophomores and iuniors to experience a true-to-life case consulting challenge. 
Call Out & Information Session: 
st

Tuesday, February 1 -Room 210, 7-9pm Coaching Session & Practice: Thursday, February 3rd -Room 210, 7-9pm 
Case Competition: 
Tuesday, February 8th -Lower Level, 2-10prn 
Cash Prizes per Team 
First -$1,000 and the opportunity to compete in the National Competition at the Arthur Andersen Center for Professional Education in St. Charles, IL 
Second -$750 Third -$500 

National Cash Prizes per Team First -$5,000 and attendance to the Arthur Andersen Winter 
Leadership Conference Second -$3,000 Third -$2,000 
To sign up a 4-member team or to be placed on ateam, e-mail Jennifer Lew at jennifer.j.lew@us.arthurandersen.com. 
Limited space available. If interested, contact us immediately. 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN 
Helping In Ways You Never Imagined. 
www.arthurandersen.com/businessconsulting/casecompetition 


F 
Thursday, January 20, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS 

Air Jordan returns to NBA as part-o-wner, president 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Look who's back -in a busi­ness suit and not a Chicago Bulls jersey, and with a team that can't get much worse. 
One year after he retired from the NBA, Michael Jordan joined the struggling Washington Wizards as part­owner and president of basket­ball operations. 
"I don't get to play. I don't get to wear a Wizards' uniform," Jordan told a packed news conference matched in size and scale only by his own retirement announcements in 1993 and last year. 
"But I will have inlluence with the players who wear the uniform.... I'm going to try to have my imprint and footprints all over this place." 
Jordan becomes only the third minority black owner in the NRA, with Magic Johnson of the Los Angeles Lakers and Edward and Bettiann Gardner of the Bulls. 
"lt's going to show our chil­dren what it means to be an executive. a role model," Mayor Anthony Williams said. "It really is simply going to electrify our city." 
Jordan attempted to become the league's first black majori­ty owner last year when he negotiated with the Charlotte Hornet.-;, but the deal foll through. 
Jordan said the Wizards deal requires an out-of-por.ket investment, but would not elaborate what percentage he will own. One of his new part­ners. Wizards minority owner Ted Leon sis said: "It's obvious­
ly  sizable  enough  that  he's  
here."  
Jordan  also  will  have  an  

ownership stake in the NHL's Washington Capitals. who are owned by Leonsis. 
Jordan was wearing a blar.k suit, but he was feted as if he were wearing a cape and had an "S" on his r.hest. The Wizards, a moribund franr.hise suffering on the court and at the gate, are in desperate need of a Superman. 
"I have an attitude about the way I play." Jordan said. "I have an attitude about the way I win.... It's going to take some time for me to come in and evaluate what's here, what's going to stay here and what's 

MONDAYS TUESDAYS 
1/24-3/6 1(25-3/7 7-8:15pm,, 12:10-12:50
YOGA 

$25 
VNESDAYS 

1(26-3(8 12:10-12:50 $20 
t1I CH.I 

WEVNESVAYS 
1/26-3/8 
5:30-6:25 V'R ~ ~ PRIDAYS 6:45-7:40 47~?{~ 1/28, 2/4, 11 $25 ~ 3:15-4:15 
$10 
Registration begins Friday, January 21, 7:30am in the RSRC. Call 1-6100 with uestions. 
$20 
11fU'RSVAYS 
1/27-3(9 7-8:15pm,, $25 
'R~ 
-r-,,-, f VI~ 
I, IA'Vf'v. 
going to leave." 
For now, Jordan said he will retain general manager Wes Unseld and coach Gar Heard. Although he won't be able to suit up at games -the NBA's constitution says players can­not be owners and owners can­not play -Jordan said he envi­sions himself practicing with the team. 
"The best way to evaluate a player is to look in his eyes and see how sr.ared he is, and I've seen that," Jordan said. 
That same competitiveness was evident to Leonsis, who initiated the negotiations to bring Jordan to the nation's capital. 
"I'd like to see a player disre­gard Michael .lordan." Leonsis said. "Every part of your DNA, when you're with this man, says this guy knows what it takes to win." 
Wizards players immediately 
welcomed Jordan's arrival. 
Point guard Rod Strickland, 
who earlier this season said he 
wanted out of Washington, 
said he now wants to stay. 
"That's very, very fair to say," 
Strickland said. ''This changes 
everything." 

Jordan said he will continue 
to live in Chicago, where he 
won 10 scoring titles and five 

MVP awards during his 13­
year career. His family lives 
then1, and he said he will tom­
mute to Washington. 

''This is new to me ... being in 
a city to give my support to 
another team." .Jordan said. 
"Normally, I am in support of 
tho Chicago Bulls." 

Entering Wednesday nighl's 
game with Dallas, the Wizards 
were 12-27, with the second­
worst record in the Eastern 
Conforence. The franchise has­
n't won a playoff game in 12 
years and has several high­
priced, underachieving players 
-Strickland, Mitch Richmond 
and Juwan Howard -who will 
be difficult to unload because o 
the league's salary cap rules. 

One area where Jordan 
could help right away is atten­
dance. The Wizards have not 
sold out a game this year at the 
2-year-old MCI Center. Wizards 
President Susan O'Malley did 
not miss the opportunity to 
peddle tickets and shouted out 
the toll-free ticket numbnr 
during the televised news con­
f'erenr,e. 

Several complex issues in 
three-way negotiations had tu be resolved before Jordan cent of the Wizards and the could join the Wizards. MCI Center and has right of Leonsis' group bought the first refusal to buy them both Capitals from Abe Pollin last when Pollin retires. year. Leonsis also owns 44 per-But Pollin and Jordan sparred 

2000-2001 Assistant Rector Applications 
for University Residence Halls Are Now Available 
Office of Student Affairs 316 Main Building 
Completed Applications must be 
submitted by February 11, 2000 
For More Information call the Office of Student Affairs at 631-5550 
Holy Cross: Men for aNew Millennium 


ANSWER ~ 
THECALL W 

Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 

www.nd.edu/-vocation 
during last year's owners lockout of NRA players, for whom Jordan was a key negotiator. Both, however, said that shout­ing match is behind them. 
Thmsday, January 20, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
VERTICAL HORIZON AND STROKE 9 ARE COMING! AMERICAN BEAUTY 
Everyone is invited to attend TONIGHT 10:30pm the concert committee meeting Tomorrow 8 & 10:30pm Tuesday, January 25, at 5:30pm ACOUSTICAFE Saturday 8 & 10:30pm in 201 Lafortune to help plan TONIGHT 9pm-12am $2 at 101 DeBartolo the upcoming concert. Lafortune Huddle (no food or drink allowed) 

NFL 
--=:: WWW 

___..._.......---............. 
page 22 
The Oburver . SPORTS Thursday, January 20, 2000 
Casserly joins Houston franchise 
Snyder said he decided to 

Associated Press 
restrurture the team's front office after becoming con­
HOUSTON 
vinced that Casserly and

Charley Casserlv, who won coach Norv Turner could notthree Super Bowl i·ings during work together.
22 yfmrs with the Washington Casserly received blame forRedskins. was picked as gen­a series of disappointing first­eral manager and executiv.e 
round draft choices. including

vice president or Houston's 
Bobby Wilson, Tom Carter,NFL expan-Heath Shuler

sion team and Andre
"The overwhelming

Wednesdav. 
Johnson.

"Th is ·is response was that 
·•1 knew 

not an on­
CharlPy demands respect every clay I

the -job 
went to work,
in the NFL."

training 
1 was fired,"

program. 
Casserly said

We want 
Bob McNair at a news con­people with 

Houston franchise owner ference 

a track Wednesday.
record and 
"When Dan 

success at 
Snyder officially took over thethis levrl." franchise owner team it was a matter if I leftBob McNair said. "We did not then or in six months. 

interview a lot of people but "I wanted to go then so I we looked a lot. 
could look for another job, I

"The overwhelming 
was prnpared to do that," he 

response was that Charley 
said, adding he has no harddemands respect in the NFL feelings for Snyder. "Now. this 

and that is what we were 
is the best thing that has hap­seeking," McNair said. 

pened to me because now IHouston's NFL team is 

am here."

scheduled to begin playing in 
The Redskins made the'

2002. Groundbreaking for the playoffs this year led by otherteam's retractable-roof stadi­
players Casserly acquired,um near the Astrodome is including quarterback Bradscheduled March 8. and a 

Johnson, running backteam nickname should be 

Stephen Davis and receiver

announced around that time. 
Michael Westbrook. TheMcNair declined to give 

Hedskins lost 14-13 to Tampaterms of Casserlv's contract. 

Bay last Saturday.

other than to s·ay it was a He also drarted Georgia cor­multi-year deal. 
nerback Champ Bailey and left "We are long-term thinkers Washington with three No. 1

and we know it is going to 
picks in the April draft. 

take some time for this orga­Casserly was considered a
n i zati on to be successful," 
candidate for general manag­

McNair said. "Charley will 
er jobs with the New Orleanshave ample time to put this Saints and New York Jets. 

organization together." 
"We as a family came to theCasserly, whom Redskins conclusion that Houston was 

owner Daniel M. Snyder 
the best flt for us," Casserlyforced out before this season said. "The toughest calls I hadbegan, started with the team to make were to those other as an unpaid intern in 1977 teams to tell them I was notand had been general manag­interested." 

er in Washington since 1989. 
FITNESS SPRING 

... 
SCHEDULE ~ 2000

RSRC Adirib: RQom l 1 12:15-12:45 Cardio Box (ends 5/17) MW $25 2 12:15-12:45 Step I (ends 5/19) F $12 3 3:45-4:45 Cardio Sculpt M/W/F $38 4 4:50-5:20 Armsn'Abs M/W/F $29 
5 5:30-6:30 Interval Step M/W/F $38 6 8:30-9:30pm Cardio Box M/W $27 7 4:25-5:25 Step I T/Th $26 8 5:30-6:30 AeroStep T/Th $26 9 8:30-9:45pm PowerStep n'Pump Tffh $33 10 9:45-10:45am Step II (ends 3/11) Sa $7 11 10:55-ll:15am All Abs {ends 3/11) Sa $5 12 4:15-5:30 Step II n' Sculpt Su $14 13 5:40-6:00 All Abs Su $10 
RSRC Ai.tivi~ B.Qllm 2 14 4:15-5:15 Cardio Box M/W $27 15 5:25-6:10 Flexn'Tone M/W $27 16 7:00-8:lSam Step II n'Sculpt T/Th $33 17 4:15-5:15 Hi Intensity Tffil $26 18 5:25-6:10 Lo Impact Tffh $26 
RQCKNE ~LASSES R22m l!U 

19 5:30-6:30 Step I M/W $27 20 12:lS-12:45 Flex n'Tone (ends 5/18) Tffh $26 21 5:20-6:20 Step II Tffh $26 
AQYATIC CLASSES B.121f11 As;ayati~ Ci:nti:1: 22 12:15-12:45 Aquacise (ends 5/19) M/W/F $34 23 7:00-8:00pm Aquacise Tffh $26 
KNQCKQUT WQRKQUT 24 8:45-10:00pm Joyce Center (ends 3/16) T/Th $20 
REQISTRADQ~

Thursday, January 20, 7:30am, RSRC. Registration lakes place throughout the semester. Schedule is subject to change. Minimum of 12 class registrants. Classes begin the week of January 24 and unless noted, end the week of May 1. Call 1-6100 with questions. 
Redskins hope for Fazio, Rhodes 
coach Tom Ilayes and defen­The Vikings' defense ranked
Associated Press sive line coach Earl Leggett 27th in the NFL. with the pass retired after a 24-year NFL defense 30th and the run
The Washington Hcdskins 
coaching career. defense 14th.
were close to finalizing a deal 
Beached at a hotel Inside linebackers coach Tom
lo hire I\Iin nesota Vikings 
Wednesday night in Mobile. Olivadotti told the Saint Paul
defensive coordinator Foge 
Ala., where the Vikings' coach­Pioneer Press for a story pub­
Fazio and former Green Bay 
cs are scouting Senior Bowl lished Wednesday that Green
Packers coach Hay Hhodes, 
workouts this week, Fazio told fired him Tuesday night. He
ESPN reported Wcdnesdav 
~ghl. . The Associated Press the infor­told the newspaper Green said mation that he was going to during a staff meeting Monday
ESPN said Rhodes would 
Washington was "not. necessar­that no coaching changes werebecome Washington's def'ensivr, 
ily true.... Right now it ain't." pending.
coordinator, while Fazio would lie hung up without clarifying Fazio has been the Viking'sbecome linebackers coach. 
his status. defensive coordinator for four
The deals have not bnen Vikings coach Dennis Green seasons. He coached inside
finalized, ESPN added. 

didn't immediately return a linebackers in 1995. Before
Rhodes was fired .Jan. :1 as 
voice mail message left at his that, he worked four sr,asons ascoach of the Packers after an 8­hotel. linebackers coach with the New8 season. 
Fazio would be the second York Jets. 
Redskins defensive coordina­member of the Vikings' defen­Olivadolti was defonsive coor­
tor Mike Nolan informed his 
sive coaching staff to leave dinator with the Miamiteam Wednesday he didn't since the season ended with a Dolphins for ninP seasons
want to return. The Redskins 
49-37 defeat at St. Louis on before bPing hirnd by Green in
also fired defensive backs 
Sunday. 1996. 
Spring Break Setninars 
March 11-19, 2000 Experiential/Service Leaming 
Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
-> Work and learn at one of 10 sites in the Appalachian region 

-> An ND tradition of service-learning 
CIVIL RIGHTS & SOCIAL CHANGE SEMINAR 
-> Travel to key civil rights sites in the South (e.g., the King Center, the Nat. Civil Rights Inst.) 


-> Learn from leaders who were instrumental in civil rights legislation and development 
-> A new and unique Seminar opportunity 
L'ARCHE COMMUNITY SEMINAR 
-> Live for a week in community with persons 
0 

with disabilities -> Read the work of Jean Vanier 
MIGRANT EXPERIENCES SEMINAR 
-> Work in the fields with migrant workers -> Assist agencies that serve migrants -> Live with migrant families 


WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Theme: Jubilee Justice -> Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. -> Service and political awareness opportunities 


All seminars offer one academic credit 
Applications Available Now at the CSC SOCIAL 
CONCERNS
A p p I i c a t i o n s D u e: Ja n. 27, 2000 
Thursday, January 20, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 

TONIGHT and EVERY THURSDAY tor 
QO@@ffiV[b@ITu®0@coLLeGe n1GHT 
SOUTH BEND'S BIGGEST PARTY 

J !~o/!:~!!tb! !) 
and lots of other stuff for a buck, too. 

222 S. Michigan • South Bend • (219) 234-5200 Call the Heartland Concert & Event Line (219) 251-2568 More pictures online every week at www.ACEplaces.com/heartland 


page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, January 20, 2000 
HOCKEY 

Irish face adversity, show toughness during holidays. 


By BILL HART A.ssoci..irc Sports Editor 
While most students were thinking of returning home for their semester break, membt"rs of the Notre Dame hockey team were preparing for a shot at ris­ing in the collegiate ranks. 
The holidays brought an eight-game schedule which fin­ished with the Irish traveling to CCIIA leader Northern Michigan for a two-game series on January 14. The Wildcats had an early 1-0 lead in the first game, but needed a power­play goal to force a 2-2 stale­mate. In the series finale, the Wildcats scored three first-peri­od goals, en route to a 6-0 rout. Despite earning only one win over the holidays, Poulin sees some positives in the recent play of the Irish. 
"Three of the last four games we played very well," he said. "We've won the season series with Miami and Lake Superior. The beautv of it is that we have control of the situation. Now, we've to go out and play." 
On January 8, Notre Dame took advantage of the home ice with a 2-1 victory over Lake Superior State. The Lakers drew first blood four minutes into the game, but sophomore David Inman responded with an assist by junior Jay Kopischle. Five minutes later, senior Joe Dusbabek scored the game-win­ner on a power play, off of pass­es from junior Dan Carlson and junior right wing Ryan Dolder. 

In the second game, Lake Superior jumped out to another early first-period lead, but a goal by Notre Dame's freshman Michael Chin secured a 1-1 stalemate. Things were begin­ning to look up for the Irish, mostly due to the arrival of the .Junior National team membArs and veterans off the injury list. 
"We got all of our bodies back for that series." Poulin remarked. "The second time we played was tho first time we'd had our whole team on the ice." 
Notre Dame had little success to start off the new year, losing 5-2 to Colorado College. Thn Tigers opened up a 3-0 lead, but goals by Kopischke and Dusbabek pushed the Irish to within striking distance before another run put the game away. 
The Irish finished 1999 with a New Year's Eve game, in Colorado against Denver. While Notre Dame jumped out to a 2-0 lead the game ended up in r,ver­time. After five minutes of scoreless hockey. the Pioneers won, to send them into the Litle game. 
The Irish began when they played host to the Princeton Tigers. Although taking the ice was a welcome reprieve after exams, the Irish were able to field only 17 healthy players. Three Notre Dame forwards played for the U.S. Junior National team, while four oth­ers were out with injury. 
Despite the injuries and prior commitments, the Irish were able to stay close to the Tigers due to some unlikely sources. [n 

For ticket information contact284 4626
Saint Mary's College Box office ­

SATURDAY JANUARY 29 
8:00 P.M. 
O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
-

For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's Box Office 
284~4626 
WIAWASHINGTON 
DANCE THEATRE
··-·· 
-~ .
• '(,' ¥ _.., , 'h , w ~"} t.,, ;Z » :-:,: .., > "' ,_ 
1 ):\ > '}. ' ·, ½ '~ • ' ' , '%. , :m, ·\., cw. ~ ,~ ~&;; :~ 3¼ ~ We,,,,..%' w. .~ ,w #. , 


KEVIN DALUM/The Observer 
Junior Dan Carlson pushes the puck past a Michigan player in a recent game. Carlson assisted on the game winning goal In the Irish victory over Superior State on January 8. 
the first game. Chin and St"nior the Tigers a 5-on-3 situation, Sean Molina earned their first which junior Chris Corrinet career goals in the first and used to score the winning goal. second periods, while a third-In the second game, the home period goal by senior center team got on the board first Troy Bagne tied the game at 3-Carlson. The defense was 
3. unable to contain a three-goal Two Irish penalties with gave second period, however, which 
TEXTBOOKS ONLINE. SAVE UP TO 40%. 
FREE SHIPPIN-G!* 
FOR $10 OFF** ENTER CODE #850913 AT PURCHASE CHECKOUT 

•FM llllpplng fDra ftmllld !ml on onln _.$35, "110 offtf apirla r.llnay15,2000. • 2000 IIIGWOIIOS, Inc:. 
led to the 4-2 Tiger vir.tory. 

"It was a strange sequence of events," Poulin said. "We've been there, we played well enough to be in those games, and haven't played well enough to win. We simply haven't done it." 
Thursday, January 20, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT . page 25 
COME WORK FOR CATERING BY 
I l 
1 
' 
DESIGN... 

EARN EXTRA CASH FOR SPRING BREAK!! 

•WE OFFER FLEXIBLE HOURS ~NCENTIVESFORSETHOURSWORKED 

@ SIGN UP NOW TO WORK 
JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND @LAFORTUNE SORIN ROOM ON 1/25, 1/26, 1/27 FROM 11~m -2pm OR 4pm -6pm @RECKERS ON 1/25 & 1/26 FROM 11am -3pm 
. 
F 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, January 20, 2000 
NBA 
Jordan era begins with Wizards' fall to Mavericks 
The Wizards handed out T­with 22 points, and Isaiah Rider them to stop lest his team be ed a 107-99 decision. 
Associated Press 
shirts to the fans in the second had l7. charged with a crucial technical The Bucks, led by Glenn half with the message: "New The Sixers made it a blowout foul. Robinson with 25 and Hay Allen 
WASHINGTON 

Year. New Day. We've got M.J." with a 22-8 run to start the third When play resumed, Vince with 16, dropped their eighth
Say Michael. you sure you 

Unfortunately, the only Jordan as the llawks made onlv l of' 19 Carter made just one of' two fme straight at Indiana, includingcan't play for these guys'? They on the court for Washington was shots and scored 12 poi~ts in the throws and Pierce sank two to two playoff losses last year. 
really could use you. 
Reggie Jordan, who played 10 quarter. Atlanta's lone basket clinch the game. Hobinson had 15 in the second 
On the day Michael Jordan minutes and scored three points. was a 12-foot jumper by Bimbo Carter scored 20 points, quarter when he was 5-of-7

became part owner of the 
Coles as they fell behind by as including a hi){hlight-reel dunk from the field. Still, MilwaukeeWashington Wizards, his new many as 28 points. and a half-courter. but he was trailed 61-54 at halftime as itteam put on one of its worst per­76ers 107, Hawks 89 Iverson scored 11 in the third, just 8-for-27 overall. Charles was unable to match Indiana'sformances of the season before a hitting 5 of 7 shots as Oaklev had 10 rebounds for the 54 percent shooting. 
less than half-full arena. The Larry Hughes scored 18 Philadelphia outsrored Atlanta Raptu.rs, who have lost five con­The Bucks were already miss­Wizards lost lo l 04-86 to the puints, including two sensational 
29-12. secutive road games. ing coach George Karl, whoDallas Mavericks on Wednesdav dunks in perhaps his last game If not for freA-throw shooting. The Celtics trailed 75-62 at the picked up two quick technicals
night. . for Philadelphia as the 76ers the Hawks would've had no start of the fourth before mount­with 4:54 left in the half. 
With Jordan and President blew out the Atlanta Hawks 107­shooting at all. They made JO of ing a 16-8 run thal included two Milwaukee cut the deficit tuClinton watching from the own­89 Wednesday night. 

13 from the line in the third. 3-pointers and four free throws 67-63 on a free throw by Samers box and security keeping Hughes, who could be going to Hughes threw down an by Pierce. After Toronto expand­Cassell after Jalen Hose was
fans at bay. Washington fell the Miami Heat in a deal for 
emphatic slam on a broken play ed the lead to 89-78, the Celtics assessed a technical foul forbehind 17-5 to lose for the Jamal Mashburn, capped a high­
off a pass from Matt Geiger, ran off the next 14 points. throwing the ball at Milwaukee'seighth time in nine games. Fans flying show with a one-handed making it 80-56 with 2:06 left in Toronto led 89-86 when Scott Williams. Indiana respond­held up "Welcome Michael" alley-oop dunk as the Sixers led the third. Hughes stuffed it two­Potapenko missed an eight-foot­Ad with a 19-foot jumper and asigns. but booed the Wizards by as many as 30. The Hawks handed and hung on the rim for er that could have cut the lead to 3-point jumper by Miller and thethroughout the game. made only one field goal in the 
good measure. one. At the other end, Doug Bucks weren't closer than sixMichael Finley scored 23 third quarter and dropped to 3­
Christie missed a 3-point again.
points to lead the Mavericks. 15 on the road. 
attempt at 24-second buzzer, The Pacers led 78-70 goingDirk Nowitzki tied a career-high Allen Iverson had 25 points Celtics 94, Raptors 90 and Potapenko got the rebound. into the fourth quarter and tookwith five 3-point baskets and and eight assists as the Sixers He grabbed another board off control with a 10-2 run to open
had 22 points. Shawn Bradley won their fourth straight and Paul Pierce scored 30 points, a Celtics miss and dished it to the period. Indiana's biggestadded a season-high 20 points. sixth in seven games. During the hitting the game-winning 3­Cheaney in the left corner, who lead was 22.
Tracy Murray scored 17 points game, two league sources told pointer with 4.6 seconds left on hit the 3 to tie it with 52 seconds Sam Perkins, Travis Best andto lead Washington. The Associated Press that the Wednesday night to cap a 14-0 
to play. After Carter's miss and Austin Croshere had 12 pointsWizards center Jahidi White Sixers were close to trading run as the Boston Celtics beat Kenny Anderson's rebound, apiece for Indiana. Tim Thomasscored eight consecutive points Hughes and Billy Owens to the Toronto Raptors 94-90. 
Pierce nailed the 3 to win it. and Sam Cassell scored 11 eachat the end of the first half to nar­Miami for Mashburn. The Sixers The Celtics rallied from a 13­for Milwaukee, but Cassell wasrow the Mavericks' lead to 48-declined comment. point, fourth-quarter deficit with only 4-of-19 from the field. · 47. Washington took its first lead Hughes, a 6-foot-5 guard who eight late points from Calbert Pacers 106, Bucks 84 
There were six lead changesof the game when Tracy Murray turns 21 on Sunday. passed to Cheaney before Pierce's right­and one tie in the first quarteropened the second half with a 3-rookie Todd Macculloch for a side shot swished through as the It's 13 and counting at home before Indiana took the lead to
pointer. dunk that gave the Sixers their 24-second clock expired. lt was for the Indiana Pacers. 
stay. closing the period with anAfter White's layin tied the biggest lead -105-75 with 4:07 Boston's first lead since midway Reggie Miller scored 29 points 8-2 run.
score at 54, Dallas used a 16-4 left. He dribbled out the final througb the second quarter. and Mark Jackson had 12 assists 
The Pacers shot 55 percent
run to go ahead 70-58. The seconds and slapped hands with Toronto called timeout, and as the Pacers defeated (11-of-20) to lead 32-27 at theMavericks built their lead to 85-Owens, a reserve who had four fans showered the court with Milwaukee 106-84 Wednesday break with Miller contributing65 with a 15-2 run. The Wizards points, before walking to the debris, prompting Celtics coach night. 
nine points and Jackson six
never threatened the rest of the locker room. Rick Pitino to take the public Indiana hasn't lost at home assists.
game. Alan Henderson led the Hawks address microphone and beg since Nov. 25, when Detroit post-
Summer Service Projects 

~ Info Hight at the Center for Social Concerns: January 20, 2000 ®7:00 Pm 
. 
8 weeks ofsetvice learning with the unaerse,vea 

. 
$1700 tuition scholarship 

. 
Valuable alumni contacts 

. 
3 credits Theo/ogY, with possible cross•lists 


. over 200 sites across the U.S. ana abroaa .. O Possibility of additional $1100 Americorp funas 
Applicalion, a,e available al lhe CIC-applg
csc 
C£NTCR FOR 
nou,I
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

Deadline: Ian tau (,olling acceplance,) 
Q<Je$tior,.r! Cali TRACY at 63'1-9¥02. 

___. 

Thursday, January 20, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
Football 
continued from page 32 
RECRUITING NOTES: 
•Widt~ 
receiver llonnie Rodamer from Morgantown, W.Va., will unnuuncc his college decision today. The 6-foot-4, 190 pound Rodamer, a high school teammate of current Irish playt•r Chris Yura will choose between Notre Dame and Clemson. 

•Quarterback 
Carlyle lloliday from San Antonio. Texas. has narrowed his schools lo Notre Dame and Nebraska. Holidav, who would join \fatt Lovecchio and Jarnd Clark in a1i already­impressive group of quarter­back recruits, is expected to rnakn his dtlcision this week. 

•This 
coming weekend is a big recruiting wef'kend for the Irish. Twehe recruits have planned to visiL the campus. Tlw playt'rs includn of'fonsive linmuen David Baas (Sarasota, Fla.) and Max Starks (Orlando. Fla.); running backs Caron Bracy (Jacksonville. Fla.}, Rr.naldo Works (Tulsa. Okla.) and Brandon Bussell (Atlanta, Ga.). 



.tY:c,rt"tez Duff 6'0" T80ibs.J:Copper11:
) 'fy/. 

· ·'·""LB Mike Goolsby 6'4" 230 lbs ..Joliet,' 
·''•·""· . ;o:;)11" {{. 
DL Greg Pauly :~,'5" 27t) l Wau!£.~sha, 
.·.> ,~_ ~ ...:~-. i;:~ -.. -, ___:· ~f~r
p~,¥yJe Buijinsca~!qs'.4" 250;;J;-s. Britlgewa 



¦ ¦ 

Meetings for Students and Young Adults are now available on campus. 


For information, please contact phone 631-7970 e-mail ND.aldrug.1@nd.edu 

SOFTBALL 

Irish ranked first 
in preseason poll 
Special to The Observer 

The 2000 Notre Dame soft­ball team has been chosen to finish first in the Big East in a preseason poll of conf'er­cnce coaches released Wednesdav. The Irish, with eight of the nine first-place votes, finished with 64 votes overall, 11 more than Boston College, which finished sec­ond in the voting with 53. 
Notre Dame junior pitcher Jennifer Sharron (Agoura Hills. Calif.I was selected the Big East preseason pitcher of the year, while junior short­stop Melanie Alkire (Union City, Calif.) was picked as the Big East preseason player of tho year. 
Sharron and Alkire were joined on the 12-member preseason all-Big East Team by outfielders Lizzy Lemire (Irvine, Calif.) and Jennifer Kriech (Indianapolis, Ind.), giving the Irish the most selections of any of the con­ference's nine teams . Sharron also was the only unanimous selection to the preseason team. 
The Irish are coming off a 42-20 season in which they won their first Big East championship and advanced to the NCAA regional round. 
Sharron earned her second nod in as manv seasons as the 1999 Big East pitcher of the year, while Alkire was honored as the 1999 Rig East player of the year. Sharron, Alkire. Lemire and Kriech wore all-Big East first team selections in 1999. 
Boston College placed three players on thf' prcsca­son all-Hig East team includ­ing pitcher Mary Dietz, catcher Summer Jarratt and utility player Lauren Fischetti. 

Notre Dam.e selects Conrad as coach 
Special to The Observer 

Two-time first team All­American and former Michigan standout Traci Conrad has been named an assistant softball coach at Notre Dame. 
Conrad replaces Stephenie Henderson who took over the head coaching position at Loyola-Chicago. 
Conrad, a native of Frankfort, Ill., will help coach the batters and infielders and assist Notre Dame head coach Liz Miller in all admin­istrative aspects of the pro­gram. 
The Big Ten career hits leader won numerous nation­al awards while playing four years at first base under Wolverine head coach Carol Hutchins. As a senior in 1999. she was named a Honda Award Finalist and a third team All-American, while receiving her second nod as Big Ten Player of the Year and Michigan team MVP. 
As a junior, Conrad, a four­time all district ·selection, helped the Wolverines to a national number two ranking for 10 straight weeks, earn­ing first team All-America honors. lier sophomore sea­son. Conrad helped the Wolverines advance to their third straight Women's College World Series, earning first team All-America honors and her first of three selec­tions to the Big Ten first team. 
As a freshman, Conrad was named to the Women's College World Series all-tour­namen t team and earned accolades as Big Ten Freshman of the Year and Michigan Rookie of the Year. 
Conrad also earned a gold medal while playing for the 1997 Pan Am Qualifier team in Medellin, Columbia, and was a participant in the 1997 and 1998 USA Softball National Team Festival. 
Off the field, Conrad was a first (1998) and second (1999) team GTE Academic All-American and a three­time academic all-district team selection. 
After graduating from Michigan in May 1999 with a bachelor of arts degree in sports management and com­munications, Conrad helped lead the Akron Racers to the Women's Pro Softball League (WPSL) championship series, where they finished as league runners-up. 


Men's Bask:ct:tall 
Saturday, Jan. 22nd 
vs. Pittsburgh 12:00pm Joyce Center 
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY 
Notre Dame Hockey vs W. Michigan 
7:00pm Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
Sign up at Friday's game to win Continental Express airline tickets for 2 anywhere in the United States! 
5tLI'-' 


. t 50 pitt
f•rs tfree
ge 
ContlDl'tlial.,
...... 
-
page 28 

The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, January 20, 2000 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

I I 
I' i 
I Magloire lifts Kentucky over winless Mississippi, 7 4-69
t 
I I 
Associated Press

r 
Kentuckv center Jamaal Magloire had 19 points and 14 rebounds as the 18th-ranked Wild<:ats usHd inside dominanr.e to overcome poor shooting in a 7 4-69 victory over Mississippi on Wednrn,day night. 
Thr. win was the eighth in ninr, games for Kentucky (12-5. 3-1 ), while Mississippi (12-6. 0-5) rr.maincd winless in the Southeastern Conference. 
The Wildcats put their size advantage to work by outre­bounding Mississippi 45-35 and leading hy as many as 18 points before a garbage-time surge by Mississippi. 
On the offensive boards. an 18­13 Kentucky advantage led to 17 sPcond-chance points and ht>lped the WildcaLs compensaLe !'or another poor shooting night by the SEC's least accurate team. 
Kentucky was 24-of-59 from the field (40 7 percent) and only 3-of-17 from 3-point range (17.CJ percentl, with freshman Keith Bogans making all threP. 
Hogans finished with 12 points and four assists. while Tayshaun Prinre had 10 points and four assists. 
Marcus 1-firks led Mississippi with 27 points. including three 3­pointers, and IO rebounds. 
Syracuse 82, Pittsburgh 72 
Freshman DeShaun \,\'illiams. scoreless over his last thrf)e games, ramP off the bPnrl1 for a season-high 23 points to kP.ep 

No. 6 Syracuse close until the unbP.aten OrangPmen could put away Pittsburgh 82-72 Wednesday night. 
Williams. who had scorrd in double digits only twice previ­ously this season, had five 3­pointers while scoring all of his point.-; in the first 28 minutes. He had 12 points combirwd in his prrvious six gaml's. 
Williams consistently hit 3­pointers from the right wing over l'itl-;burgh's zone defonsr. going 4-of-5 from 3-point range in the first half as Syracuse rallied from several seven-point dclicit.<; for a 3:'i-all halftime tie. 
Etan Thomas and Jason Hart took ov11r after tlrn.1 as Syracuse (15-0. 5-0 Big Fastl rPmained the only unbeaten team in Division L taking the lead for good with a 13-6 run to start the second half. 
Thomas hit a jumper just to the right of the foul line to stretch SyracuSl\'s lead to 70-64. Aftn Mrandin Knight split the lane for a left-handed layup for Pitt (8-7. 0-41, Byan Blackwell hit a runner off the glass and llart made two free throws to put Syracusn up by (\ight with :1:21 to play. 
Duke 92, N.C. State 88 

No. 5 Duke matched tho ACC record for consecutivn regular season wins in heart-stopping fashion Wednesday night. getting a r.arecr-high 30 points l'rom Chris Carrawf'll in a 92-88 victo­ry over North Carolina Statn. 
Observer Sports. 
Read it. Love it. Live it. 
Want to write it? Call 1-4543 

Thn Blue Devils ( l4-2. 5-0 
ing the mark set by N.C. Statr season opener against Stanford. 
Atlantic Coast Conferr.nr.r.) won from 1972-75. 
had five in the overtime. while 
their 27th straight league game 
Carrawrdl, whose previous freshman Carlos Boozer had six 
over a three-year span. match-high was 28 points set in the of' his 24 in the overtime. 
Careers 2000 -Chicago 
(Majority of career fields represented include: Business, . Marketing, Engineering, Information Technology, Sales, Consulting, Insurance, Management Training Programs, Consumer Products) 
(Additional organizations represent the following career fields: science, research, advertising, fashion, government agencies & social service) 
Monday, January 24, Chicago, IL (Register on-line@ www.careerconferences.com) 

In just meet and interview with outstanding employers you won't see anywhere else! 
Transportation Provided by The Career Center Depart Morris Inn @ 7:00 a.m. Return to Notre Dame by 4:00 p.m. 
Call to confirm for transportation by Friday 1/21/00 The Career Center 631-5200 
Castl~'Poiot 
Apartments 
Cleveland and Ironwood Roads/I 801 I Cleveland Road/ South Bend, Indiana 46637/ ( 2 I9)272-81 IO 
New Castle Point Seleet Unhs A.vailable for Next Se1nester 
*Within minutes of campus* 

• 
Renovated, spacious one and two bedroom apartments, some with lofts 

• 
Includes membership in the new 


Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center 
-~---------------·"'•------------,,-----... 
Thursday, January 20, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 29 
Calendar of Events 
:*' : 

Freshman Retreat #t27 (Feb. U:, · J«Sign-Up 
Monday, December 6 through M· ,y(Februafy)l§ ' 103 Hesburgh Libraiy ,)t{,r' ··. . -.. Targeted Dorms: Badin, Keenan,i"€wis, O'NeHI, . Pasquerilla East, St Edwards, Siegfried, Walsh, and Zahm 
Senior Retreat (February 11· .. Monday, January 17 tl1rough Fr 103 Hesburgh Library 
MBA Retreat "Holding It AU T 
Friday-Saturday, January 21-22 
Learning To Talk About Race 
Friday-Saturday, January 21-.. 
< 

Afrlcentric Spirituality: Fresh "the Plunge -Phase 2" . Saturday, January 22, 11:0 
Lewis Hall Basement 
RCIA Session 
Sunday, January 23, ND Roorn, l 
Africentric Spirituality: Sankofa Scholars Honors : 
Sunday, January 23', 7:00; ·· .. Montgomery Theatre, Lafortune.St 
.•.••. .. \I 
~-<-" 
~ 

Confirmation Progt~m: Rite · Sunday, January 2~.~..H:4f 
Basilica of the Sacred Hea 
Mlsa En Espanol • Spanish M~ss 
Presider: Fr. JohOHermari; C.S.C. 
Sunday, January 2,3·· ·· ·· ,~e 
Dr. Martin Luthe 
Monday, January 24l 7:00 p 
The Dream Through Fr, 
reflection on 
NotreDame 
Wed~~~;ty,
Colorstdtthe 
Presented by·Student 
the w-O!rld wilt be ser\le 
Thursday, January 27t 
We Watkin t ·•·· ·· 
,ffi:·.. : 
:tt~dt== 
Campus Bible ;$tu. ....... ..·.. 
Tuesday, January 25, 7:00 pm, 
Confirmation• "We Pray What We Believe" 
Tuesday, January 25, 7:00-8:30 pm. 
Siegfried Hall Chapel . 
Graduate Student Bible Study Group 
Wednesday, December 15, 8:00 pm,Wilson Corr11nons 
Second Sunday of Advent 
Weekend Preslders at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, January 22 Mass 
5:00 p.m. Rev. John E. Conley, C.S.C 
Sunday, January 23 Mass 
10:00 a.m. 
Rev. Robert L. Epping, C.$.C 
11:45 a.m. 
Rev. John E. Conley, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings 


1st Reading Jon 3:1-5, 10 2nd Reading 1 Cor 7:29-31 Gospel Mark 1:14-20 



The Norm of Greatness 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
How do we determine who is great among us? Who decides just what greah1.ess looks like? I fear that if it were left to society the measures would miss the mark. Things like wealth, or appearances, or relative fame, or even athletic prowess, would be held up over virtue, or the degree to which one is willing to sacrifice, or to love. The greatness that Jesus held up had little to do with charm, or grades, or good-looks, or money. The norm of greatness for Jesus had to do with humility, kindness, mercy, patience and love. 
On Monday past, our nation celebrated the anniversary of the birth of a child, born to a middle-income African American family in Atlanta, Georgia. This child would be destined to change forever how we view ourselves as Americans, and would almost single-handedly redefine for us, as a nation, the measure of our greatness. On January 17th, our nation marked with a national holiday the life and heritage of an unlikely hero, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. One of the great activists for social change, Dr. King believed deeply in nonvio­lence. Reverend Samuel McKinney of Mt. Zion Baptist Church in Seattle has said, "King was willing to challenge the evil of hatred and racism by putting his own life on the line. He did not run from bigotry but he was willing to face it head-on. He was willing to fight it, but not fight back." Dr. King was, and is, a beacon of hope for oppressed people everywhere, even right here on our cam­pus. 
Whatever one might think of him, Dr. King's contribution to this nation and the world are undeniable. He woke a world from complacency and indif­ference, and articulated a dream which has given hope to generations of Americans. That dream is a universal one, one which seeks love and justice for all people, regardless of race or creed. It is a quest that this community must claim as its own. The Gospel which we here so proudly profess, demands it of us. That this man should have engendered negative feelings among much of white society is of little surprise, I suppose, when one considers the turmoil that followed him wherever he went. And yet, surely, we can think of others, whom I need not name, around whom just such turmoil swirled and whom we have not so readily dismissed. 
Growing up, I think we all trusted what we learned in school, that America was a fair nation, a melting pot that treated people equally. It doesn't take a rocket, or even social scientist, even here at Notre Dame, to realize that that is indeed not true. The principles of fairness and equality do not necessari­ly extend to all. Even more disconcerting than the reality that we might be vic­tims of such discrimination is the sad reality that we might actually be perpetra­tors of it. If we are to achieve the kind of inclusive society of which King dreamed, especially in our ever more diverse and multicultural society, then we all have a role to play. It is not only the message of Dr. King, but it is as well the call of the gospel and of Jesus Christ. .. 
I am stunned to realize that Dr. King, at the age of 35, two years younger than I am now, had already won the Nobel Peace Prize. Only four years later, at 39, he would die a martyr's death for standing against hatred and discrimina­tion. All that he accomplished in his short life would leave me embarrassed at my own feeble attempts at justice if it didn't at the same time give me so much hope. It is stunning to think what one person can do, and perhaps even more amazing to think what an entire community could do if it only joined together in a common cause for justice and equality. Mine may only be at this time to write a simple exhortatory letter in the Observer about Dr. King and all that he stood for. Yours may be simply to urge those in your world to love, regardless of race or ethnicity or religion or orientation. We all have a part to play in the realization of the dream. 
For some months the MLK Celebration Planning Committee has been meeting to prepare a series of programs that we hope will further an apprecia­tion of the richness and diversity of all peoples on this campus and beyond. Please join with them in reflecting on and redefining our norm of greatness. Please join with us in celebrating the rich diversity of this community by attend­ing the events which will take place next week, which will be advertised in these pages. And finally, a word of thanks to the members of the MLK Celebrations Planning Committee (listed below) for their remarkable spirit and tireless efforts on behalf of our entire community. 
Jay Caponigro  Chandra Johnson  Ken Seifert  Sharon Watson  
Stephany Foster  Rene Mulligan  Anthony Sieh  Justin Wilson  
Kevin Huie  Iris Outlaw  Clare Sullivan  Priscilla Wong, Chair  

Please God, we all share the one hope that all people can come together to stand against racism, discrimination and indifference; and that this campus community's norm of greatness can include an appreciation of the dignity of each member. It is the call of us all. I will not pretend to be able to say it any better than Dr. King himself, and so I close with his words, not mine: 
I refuse to accept the view that mankind is so tragically bound to the starless night of racism and war that the bright daybreak of peace and brotherhood can never become n reality... I believe that unarmed truth and unconditional love will have the Jinn! word. 
• 
-@;1PUS 
~INISTRY 

. --·· --------.,..,,,.-. __...... -·___._._..­
page 30 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, January 20, 2000 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Belles surprised by recent splash into record book 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Sainr Muy's Erliror 
HPcord-breaking swims are generally the exception rather than the rule for Saint Mary's swim tt->am. 
After a series of dual meets over winter break. the women are not only rewriting thf' record book, but proving they know how to break the rules. 
Returning from 10 days of grueling training in Cocoa Beach. Fla., freshman Laurf'n Smith re-set her own record in the 200 breastroke against Calvin College last week. low­ering the mark to 2:36.15. 
,,.. Smith's swim. and a number of season and lifetime bests posted by the U1am at the peak of their training regime. caught first-year coach Gretchen Hildebrandt by sur­prise. "I don't know why it's hap­pening, but I'm not complain­ing," Hildebrandt said. "[Smith) knew that her times hadn't been where thev should be for the past l'ew mc.ets. and mentally she was ready for this one. She was tired and worn down -this was a total mental swim." The peak training period over winter break generally produces some of the slower swims of the season. due to the athletes· fatigue from training two to three times daily. But Smith's swim was not the only surprise, as her team­mates Alicia Lesneskie, Michelle Samreta. Lane Herrington, and Colleen Sullivan posted a ref'.ord­breaking swim in the 400 medley relay against Calvin, resetting the three-year-old mark at 4:22.11. 
,, 

lNFORMATION MEETING: SUNDAY, JANUARY 23, 1:00PM ROCKNE RM. 21 8 FOR MORE INFO. CALL: BILL ARCHER 1~5443 
RECSPORTS AT 1-61 00 
"They're posting awesome times." Hildebrandt said. "It's proof' that their training is working -thr.y're swimming fast times at practice, and coming back and swimming faster in the rrrnets." 
The women kept the pace against Hope College Tuesday night. putting pressure on the No. l team in the MIA/\. 
"We wanted to show them that we're tough," llildebrandt said. "Looking at their times. I knew that we could get second and third in almosl f'Verv event. We wanted to giv;.! them good competition." 
Saint ~ary's dropped the rneflt 120-98. but continued to improve individual perfor­mances. securing several lifo­timc best times. 
Freshman Mcghan llarris swam past the (>:00 barrier in the 500 freestyle, ser.uring third place and surpassing her lifetime goal in the event. Solid performances also came from Alicia Lesneskie and Olivia Smith. who finished 1-2 in the event. 
Olivia Smith also posted u sea.son best in the 1,000 freestyle, finishing in first place in '11:37.40. Lori Schulte cut her time in the 100 backstroke. and Erin McCarthy secured a new best time in the 200 individual medley. 
Again, the exception became the rule. 
While Saint Mary's currently stands at 2-5 on its season. continual strong individual performances give the team reason to believe that the MIAA championship -swum on home turf' at Rolfs Aquatic Center -could bring blessings and hard earm~d results to the team. 
But they are not there yet. 


NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer 
Michelle Samreta finished first in the 100 breaststroke Tuesday against Hope College. Despitethe loss to Hope, which is ranked No.1 in the MIAA, the Belles improved upon numerous person­
al records. 

Closing their dual meet rorn­petiti.on this weekend at home against De Paw and Kalamazoo, the Belles face tough MlAA competition from Kalamazoo, and will have to step up to defeat DePaw. 
Furthermore, the absence of sophomore sprinter Danielle Clayton from a back injury leaves some uncertainty in the lineup until she returns. Clayton is anticipated to com­pete Saturday, dependent upon practice performance this week. 
"If we're on Saturday. we can beat DePaw," Hildebrandt said. "But we're not resting for this. We're training hard this week." 
The odds am against them point-wise, but if the team l"ol­1ows its past few perfor­mances, it could make anotlwr exception the rule -again 

SERVICE. LEADERSHIP. FELLOW-SHIP. 
.J 

JOIN CIRCLE K 
SUNDAY, JANUARY 23, 7 PM LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
HTTP://WWW.ND.EDU/~CIRCLEK 

Thursday, January 20, 2000 The Observer . TODAY 
TOM KEELEY

FOURTH AND INCHES 
!40\JI 00 '<OV D \.,/10,:r ;.~ E,--.t€'1.\..C:NT 11)tt,\ J'oROP.\.lf ~vi l\ I..C\,J(> r~~f"', '?1.J>,N fO~ LIVE. '(out< LI~ C.01.LEc,E, CA~EER ~111D LIFE GovL.O ~£.\LL'I' HELP 
Mtc. C.oNc..El'ITIO.TE. 
BILL AMEND

Fox TROT 
~ 
J
" 

AND DoN''T BE ALARMED 1F ...AND ISN'T
YOU'VE ALl<EADY WON ME 
OVER-ER IN SP,n oF ME... 
1 FALL-ALL HEAD ovER"-'. 1T 1Ro1111c, 
DON'TCHA

1

~ 
THtNI<? 
page 31 JEFF BEAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 
'WE\...C,lltv'\~ 0ACK! HE'{ -1..1 I'£. Tl,c THAl-\iC.S, ••• NICE: HAI \2-C Uf, , , NE-W 60ATE'€ THEJ4E. 
.... 
Sometimes, for the sake of the friendship, a boldface lie is just better. 
beam.1 @nd.edu 

CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  33 18-Down  68 Pot builder  
1 Jazzy riffs  product  69 Bacon piece  
6 Dry-as-dust  37 Common bait  
1 O Gund Arena  40 "Grumpy Old  DOWN  
hoopsters 14 Author Calvino 15 Level 16 Shepherd of Genesis 17 Start of a Harvey Keitel jest to a journalist 20 Schemata 21 Arctic transport 22 1,000-kilometer chain 25 Uproars 27 Clean up, in a way 28 Jest, part 2 31 Aircraft at Orly 32 Top-Flite support  Men• co-star 42 Place of complete content 43 Philologist's ref. 45 Big ape 46 Jest, part 3 49 Kind of waves 53 They may be cosmic 54 Solidify 55 Locust tree 57 Singer Lopez 59 End of the jest 64 Footnote abbr. 65 Anemometer spinner 66 Diploma word 67Withhold  1 The first Tudor Henry 2 Org. that does raids 3 Busy time at Indy 4 Drops with a thud 5 Essence 6 "Mutiny on the Bounty" star, 1962 7 Presents in detail 8_dye 9 Feathered layers 10 Caravan beast' 11 Domicile 12 Brink  
13 Chronotherapy  
aids it  
18 Big Swedish  Puzzle by Chuck Deodene  
manufacturer  34 Orange-and­ 50 Urgent  60 Schoolmarm's  
19 Wittenberg's river 22 Sentient  white rental 35 Mambo cousin 36 Is expected (to)  51 Six-Day War commander 52 Without  do 61 Verbal stumbles  
23 Was sweet on 24 ''The possession of fools": Herodotus  38 Beluga yield 39 Rabin's predecessor 41 Sprout 44 Crime lab job  empathy 56 Bit of plankton 58 Big Board inits.  62 Thurman of "Jennifer 8" 63 Settle up with  
26 Forward part  46 Canning  Answers to any three clues in this puzzle  
29 Four seasons in  instruction  are available by touch-tone phone:  
Baja  47 Dance wildly  1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute).  
30 Confession  48 Just  should  Annual subscriptions are available for the  
starter  be  best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50  
33 Dreadful  49 Went ballistic  years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
.J 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
.. 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name Address City _______State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept 22): Travel DAY: Lorenzo Lamas, David Lynch, for business or pleasure. Much can George Burns, Federico Fellini, Patri­be gained if you organize your cia Neal, Slim Whitman course of action. You will have the 
Happy Birthday: You can do all stamina to accomplish your goals if you want for others, but don't be you direct yourself accordingly. taken advantage of in the process. 0000 You must put your own needs first if LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Your you want to reap the rewards. Being personal life will be unpredictable. shrewd may not be your best asset, Don't get involved with those who but this year it will be necessary if are overindulgent or escapist. Prob­you want to make the kind of lems with your house must be taken advancements you've been dream­care of immediately. 00 ing about. Your numbers: 6, 23, 28, SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 34, 41, 44 Travel will bring cultural knowledge 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Dis­that can't be learned in any other putes at home will be hard to avoid. way. Your memory will help you in Overspending on selfish items, cou­your creative pursuits. Your honesty pled with neglecting your responsi­will result in new friendships. bilities, will be the brunt of the prob­00000 lem. Work quickly to rectify this SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. situation. 00 21): Your personal partner may be 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You less than accommodating today. are likely to overreact to emotional Don't push your luck. It is best to situations. It is best to step back from steer clear of such confrontations. Try the situation, rather than take sides to compromise and bend to others' or make hasty decisions regarding wishes.000 your response. Avoid serious talks. CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 0000 Pleasure trips will be favorable and 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You result in new friendships or partner­can expect to experience some ships. Humanitarian groups will unusual circumstances regarding want you as their leader due to your money or legal matters. Be careful strong beliefs and persuasive not to divulge valuable iilformation. attitude. 000 You could be setting yourself up if AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): youdo.000 Insight will be greatly needed. Look 
CANCER Qune 21-July 22): Emo­to tnose who can offer you advice. tional upset will be the case if you You need mental stimulation. foin don't keep things inrerspective. You groups that deal with self-awareness must busy yoursel with energetic as well as those that offer a creative activities that will help you vent outlet. 000 your anxiety and frustration. 000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may Don't let unreliable friends take be feeling a little depressed about advantage of your good nature. You your personal situation. You can tum mustn't pay for other people's mis­that feeling around if you plan a takes or their entertainment just quiet evening for two and lay your because you don't want them to cards on the table. Investments will walk away from you. 0000 be lucrative. 000 
Birthday Baby: You are a helper and a doer. You are affectionate, loving and accepting when it comes to dealing with the ones you love. You have a strong intuition and a desire to use your creative talent to its fullest. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.cO'.lll, astromate.coai.) 0 2000 Universal l"O!ss Syndicate 



Holiday Ice 
The Irish hockey team played eight games over the holidays. Despite winning only one game, the team maintains its positive outlook.
PORTS 
page 28 
O
THE page 32 BSERVER Thursday, January 20, 2000 

HOCKEY 

Irish players lead in World Junior Championships 
FOOTBALL 

Despite violations, Irish capture impressive recruits 
opportunities the school pro­half to attract players without "Every school used it against "I think Notre Dame wouldBy TIM CASEY 
vides." the burdens of the violations. Notre Dame," Lemming said. "I have had a very good shot [at
Spore, Writer 

"lt {the ruling] didn't affect "At the beginning it [the know Texas used it, Michigan, getting HarrisJ," Lemming. "As me at all," Palmer said. "It was uncertainty] kept some players Purdue -everyone." the season wore on, he lost 
Growing up in a football fami­nothing too major and it was from committing," Lemming "But Notre Dame's the most interest because, among other ly, Billy Palmer knew all about the first for the program. I'm said. "But inadvertently it criticized program anyway things, the violations." Notre Dame. very aware of the character of helped Notre Dame. They're because it's the most success­Fortunately for the Irish, 
The son of an ex-Canadian the school." now getting great players when ful," Lemming said. "Even with­Harris's case is the exception. Football League player and the Palmer's sentiments seem to out the probation, every year not the rule. brother of a junior quarterback be consistent across the "ft [the ruling] didn't they still get knocked. [The Despite the hurdle surround­at Florida, the tradition. acade­recruiting circles. As of today, affect me at all. It was coaches say] 'Do you want to go ing the NCAA's ruling, Notre mic excellence, and emphasis the Irish have received verbal to a Catholic school where you Dame still has a lot to sell to
nothing too major and it 
on religion associated with commitments from 13 players have to go to church,' -I know potential recruits. 
was the first for the pro­
Notre Dame were all part of for the class of 2004. Five of the Auburn said that. Or 'Notre And so far, they've been suc­Palmer's upbringing. 13 rank among recruiting ana­gram. Dame doesn't throw the ball.' cessful. Now one of the premier high lyst Tom Lemming's top 100 Everybody knocks Notre Dame "I enjoyed the people and school tight ends in the country high school players. because it's the best school in most importantly, the close-knit
Billy Palmer

and a target of the Irish coach­According to Lemming, the recruiting." atmosphere," said Palmer ing staff. Palmer also knew that uncertainty surrounding the Irish recruit Only one major recruit's deci­whose best friend and high the NCAA would be penalizing NCAA's ruling actually helped sion, offensive lineman Kwame school teammate Jeff Faine is the Irish for improper gifts Notre Dame in recruiting. before they may have taken Harris from Delaware, was currently a freshman center for given to players by a university Lemming mentioned that most weaker players. The better swayed by the uncertainty sur­the Irish. "They've got some representative. of the top recruits wait until a players usually commit late rounding the violations. Harris, grnat guys there. 
He didn't let the impending few weeks prior to signing day. anyway." the premier offensive linemen "The small school atmos­ruling impact his final decision. Feb. 2 before making their final Though he believes the Irish in the country. took an unoffi­phere with the big-time football 
"I read the papers and they decision. With Notre Dame's arc once again in position to cial visit to Notre Dame this program." Palmer said. sound­said it [the violations] wouldn't violations, a loss of a scholar­have a top 10 recruiting class, summer but has since dropped ing like the perfect fit for the be anything major,'; said ship in football for the next two Lemming also knows that sflv­the Irish from his list of poten­Irish. "That's what attracted Palmer who committed to the years, coming in mid­era1 schools used the impend­tial colleges. Harris has nar­me to Notre Dame." Irish on Jan. 9. "l actuallv Oecember. the Irish were able ing violations as a negative rowed his college choices down looked past it I knew the great to have nearly a month and a against the Irish. to Michigan and Stanford. see FOOTBALL/page 27 
,:.­
....
'. .¼ 
.,_::..:'i..~-~ 

KEVIN DALUMrrhe Observer 
Sophomore David Inman, pictured above passing ·the puck in a recent game, is one of three Irish players who competed for the United States in the World Junior Championship. Inman, along with fellow sophomore Brett Henning and freshman Connor Dunlop, led the team to the semi-finals of the tournament, where the U.S. fell to the Czech Republic. 
ByMATTOUVA 
Sports ');' ricer 

The U.S. National Junior Hockey team reached the semi-finals of the World Junior Championship with the help of three Irish players. Sophomore centers Brett Henning and David Inman, along with freshman center Connor Dunlop, all traveled to Sweden for the three-week tournament from Dec. 26 to Jan. 4. 
The three selections from the Irish roster marked the fourth straight y1rnr that a player from Notre Oame has made lhe 22-man roster, while it also was the most number of players from any one single team. Boston College leads the way with nine selections to the National Junior Team during the past four years, followed by Notre Dame with 7. 
The U.S. team finished 1-2-2 in the Championships. includ­ing ties with eventual finalist the Czech Republic {2-2) and Canada (1-1). The lone U.S. victory came against host Sweden with a final score of 5­
1. Connor Dunlop figured in the scoring in the victory with one goal and one assist. His goal came unassisted to give the U.S. a 3-1 lead, while his assist came on th c f'irst goal scored. 
"It was a great hockey expe­rience-the best that I have ever had." Dunlop said. "To be on a world stage against the best players under twenty from around the world is great. Representing the coun­try is something that I was really glad to do." 
The Czechs eliminated the 
U.S. team in the semi-finals, before Canada was able to beat them in an overtime shoot-out in the Bronze medal game. The Czechs went on to beconrn the eventual champi­
ons by defeating Russia in  a  
shoot-out.  
"The competition helped  a  

lot," said Dunlop. "The speed of the game is a lot different from the college level and we played on Olympic sheets. which really pushPd our skills." 
The Irish players put up impressive statistics through­out the Championship, with Dunlop leading all U.S. centers in face-off percentage. He won 69 of 108 (64 percent) as the second line center. Henning also played as a r,en­ter for the Americans. winning 14 of 37 face-offs. Inman was used as a wing on several dif­ferent lines for the U.S. in the tournament. 
vs Pittsburghat Hope College Men's Swimming 
" s. Saturday, 12 p.m.
Saturday, 3:00

SPORTS ., 
Bill Ritter lnvirarional at Milwaukee 
ATA 

at Miami Saturday, 10 a.m. 
vs. Western Michigan 
·\:; Saturday, 2 p.m. 
~•. Friday, 7:05 p.m. 
GLANCE 










