
----------------------------------------------------------------, 
Get out of the gutter 
Accepting the results 
Looking for things to do now that the home 

Friday

Republican presidential candidate and Texas 
football season is over? Check out some movie 
Gov. George W Bush announced that he will not 
theatre and bowling alley reviews. 
contest electoral results in Iowa. 
NOVEMBER17, 

Scene . pages 14 & 15 
News . page 11 
2000 



By MYRA McGRIFF 
News Writer and TIM LOGAN Senior Scaff Writer 

This afternoon, dozens of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will pile into vans for a 780-mile ride down to Columbus, Ga. 
When they arrive, they will join thousands of other pro­testers from across the coun­try in a two-day prayer vigil to denounce the School of the Americas {SOA]. a U. S. Army program at Fort Benning which has been accused of teaching Latin American offi­cers the arts of torture and human rights abuse in the name of democracy. 
This is the third year th at students from the two schools have gone to the vigil. Twenty-four made the trip last year and nine the year 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIV NO. 57 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Students to travel to Georgia for SOA protest 
Pax Christi members will make third cross-country trip to fight US. Army program 
Communication focus of education conference at ND 
By ALISON HEINZ 
News Writer 
The University will hold its fifth annual Excellence in Teaching conference at McKenna Hall this weekend. The theme of this year's conference is "How to Communicate More Effectively with Students." 
The conference is sponsored by the Notre Dame Alumni Association and consists of lectures and all-day workshops. 
More than 170 educators from across the country will be in attendance this year. Forty-six of Notre Dame's Alumni Clubs are sponsoring 68 teachers this year. 
"The convention reflects Notre Dame's concern and commitment to quality education at all levels," said Kathleen Sullivan, associate director of the alumni association and director of alumni continuing educa­tion. 
In accordance with the theme, co-authors of the book How to Communicate More Effectively With Students Adele Faber and Elaine Mezlish, will present a workshop, "How to Talk so Kids will Listen and Listen so Kids Will Talk." 
Notre Dame English professor Paul Rathburn will present a lecture titled, "Teaching Values: The Dignity of Our Profession." 
"This conference provides an opportunity for gen­uinely gifted teachers to get together and exchange 
see CONFERENCE/page 4 
ELECTION 2000 


Court allows recount to continue 
. Question remains if results will aid in determining a winner 
Associated Press 
TALIAHASSEE, Fla. 
Florida's high court gave the go­ahead Thursday to ballot recounts in the state's chaotic presidential election but left unanswered the 
question whether results  of the will  See Also  
matter.  "Miami-Dade  

"There is no 
reconsiders
legal impedi­ment to the recount" recounts con­

page4
tinuing," the court said in a case brought by Palm Beach County. Within minutes, county officials announced they would join adjacent Broward County in reviewing hundreds of thousands of ballots by hand. 
The Palm Beach count began Thursday evening. A state judge was to decide as early as Friday whether to overturn the Republican secretary of state's decision to reject any further recount totals from Democratic controlled counties. 

In the overtime campaign between Bush and Al Gore, the ruling was a victory for the vice president, who had pressed for manual recounts in four counties in hopes of overturning the Texas governor's 300-vote lead. About 2,600 overseas absentee ballots remain to be counted, but so far there is no dispute about them. 
"The Supreme Court's clear and unambiguous ruling that the coun­ties are authorized to proceed with a manual recount is a victory for everyone who wants to see the votes counted clearly and fairly here in Florida," Gore campaign chairman William Daley said. 
"The one-paragraph, interim order of the Florida Supreme Court has just been presented to you as the best thing since night baseball," said Bush's recount manager, former Secretary of State James Baker III. He said, in fact, the order "does nothing more than preserve the status quo." 
Bush running mate Dick Cheney said the state's official count and recount showed Bush was the winner -with the overseas absentees still to come -and bar­ring any change he expected Secretary of State Katherine before. Last year, 12,000 peo­ple participated in this peace­ful demonstration; this week­end even more are expected. 
"It's amazing, the diversity of people who are there," said Sheila McCarthy, a Pax Christi Notre Dame member who went last year. "You've got priests, nuns, punk high school kids, Catholic Workers, anarchists ... It's just an amazing variety of people who come ·out and say we should not pay our tax dollars to sup­port this." 
The SOA was founded in 1946 in Panama to spread democracy throughout the Western Hemisphere. In 1984 it was moved to Fort Benning, on the border of Alabama and Georgia. From its beginning, the school has taught Latin American soldiers about United States military tech­niques and discipline, and, as 
see PROTEST/page 4 

Harris to declare Bush the winner Saturday. 
Cheney dismissed the Democrats' litigation. "You can't change the rules in the middle of the game, and we shouldn't try," Cheney said Thursday night on ABC's "Primetime." 
The seven-member Florida court, all chosen by Democratic governors, issued its unanimous, one-paragraph order as Bush lawyers looked to a federal appeals court in Atlanta to stop the recounts altogether. 
One of the four counties, Volusia, completed its new tally in time to meet a 5 p.m. Tuesday deadline established by Harris. 
She has said the state will not include any of the post-Tuesday recount figures in its official tabu­lation, which she intends to announce on Saturday. 
In another county, Miami-Dade, officials said they would meet Friday to decide whether to pro­ceed. 
Republicans, meanwhile, released federal court affidavits from at least five witnesses who contend they watched earlier hand recounts in Palm Beach County this week and observed irregularities and possible ballot tampering. 





______________,,____________________________________ 
Friday, November 17, 2000

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY
INSIDE COLUMN 

Dumb and Domer 
So they say students at Notre Oame are sup­posed to be smart? Future leaders in business, government and community are supposed to develop the ability tu think on their feet and make quick, sound judgments. 
This being so, I wonder 
why it appears at times that 
my brain sends signals to my 
body via an absentee ballot 
from overseas. 
The worst example of my 
unintelligent behavior has to 
be an incident at a local fast­


-
food establishment a fow 
weeks ago. Following a 
leisurely drive to 1-!esburgh 

Noah Library from D-6 -why Amstadter walk when you can spin the wheels ofa '97 Altima -I 
Assistant
headed to Wendy's to 

Sports Editor 
indulge myself in a foast of 
cholesterol and saturated 
fat. 

I placed my order through that ever-so-clear sounding intercom, pulled the vehicle around to the window, paid and left. Ijust forgot one final detail -the food. So of course I did an always safe and legal U-turn on Michigan Street, turned around, and re-entered the drive-through. 
"Wow, in all my years working here at 
Wendy's I've never seen that," said my friend, 
the drive-through attendant in a means of boost­
ing my self-esteem. 

Just a few weeks later, 1actually pulled an 
even larger act of stupidity. On the Thursday 
before fall break. I finished my last mid-term at 3 
p.m. and immediately hopped in my car and headed to O'Hare Airport to catch a 6:30 flight to New York. where I was traveling to visit friends. 
Fighting a traffic jam. I made my first mistake -exiting the expressway within 10 miles of the airport and heading back towards South Bend. After realizing my mistake, I soon turned around and parked my car in the airport lot at 6:15. Luckily, my flight was delayed until 7:30. 
After rushing through packing my bags in the airport parking lot. I headed to the gate. Going through the metal-detector, I put my tape recorder and cellular phone in the basket for metal goods. Never did it hit me that I probably should have put something else in there. Never. that is, until I had boarded the plane and real­ized what was missing -my car keys. 
Yes. in my infinite brilliance, I had left the keys to my car sitting on the front seat of my vehicle in the $20/day lot. I had to have my mother and brother meet me at the airport on Sunday night to give me the extra key. Needless to say. my family has not soon forgiven me for that one. 
My younger brother refers to such behavior as "Noahisms." He constantly reminds me of the time I was on hold, holding the phone up to my ear. while at the same time frantically looking around the room for the telephone. Or the time when I was driving down the road looking for those same car keys. 
These condescending comments about my intelligence come from the same person who sent me these Instant Messages the other night. 
1B Eli C: hey, don't laugh .... IB Eli C: is a 930 on the SAT any better than a 20 on the ACT? 
Yes, it appears intelligence really does run in my family. While I may have topped my brother by almost 40 percent on both those scores. he ha.s always been infinitely more capable ofgoing out and getting cheeseburgers without disaster. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene 
Jason McFarley Amanda Greco Maribel Morey Graphics 
Scou Rrodfuehrer Katie Annis 
Sports Production 
Katie Hughes Noah Amstadrcr Viewpoint Jeff B~ltruzak Par Kelly Lab Tech Liz Lang 
The Ob•c"'tr (USPS 59<J 2-4000) is publishcJ MonJay through Friday ext-ept during c-xam and v,1c.uion periods. The Ob~('r'Vf:f j~ a member of the A:.soci,11cJ l)rcs~. All rcpr0Ju.c,io11 righu ait rcscr1t"c-d. 
Real Christmas trees prohibited Nov. 27, 1973 
The student life council voted to prohibit the use of natural evergreen trees as Christmas ornamentation in order to comply with federal Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1972 which make the custom illegal at Notre Dame. The committee suggests the use of fire proof artificial trees and trimmings where such Christmas decorations are desired. 
Students stand vigil outside Indiana prison Nov. 21, 1997 
While the clock counted down the minutes until Gary Burris' execution early Nov. 20, more than 60 members of' the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community prayed qui­etly together near the Indiana State prison in protest of capital punishment. A jury had convicted Burris in 1980 for the execution-style murder of Kenneth Chambers. an Indianapolis taxi-driver. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 



OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Marquette freshman retracts claim of fraud 
MILWAUKEE, Wis. 
said David Scott, field producer for 
Just one day after telling ABC News -:"I ABC News. he voted for himself four times in the j "We reported the representations Nov. 7 presidential election. as [BosworthJ reported them to us." Marquette University freshman I Scott said. Scott did not wish to com­Hobert Bosworth has retracted his ment further on the matter statement. Wednesday.
i !

In a statement issued by Bosworth's University president Father Hobert attorneys Wednesday. the law offices Wild also issued a statement of Kohn and Arbuckle, Bosworth Wednesday regarding the situation. 
Mal"quetteexpressed his regret for his comments "I am shocked, disappointed and and insisted he meant no ill will by frankly angered by the actions of
University

them. those Marquette students who claim 
"His motivation was to draw atten­to have voted more than once in last tion to the flaws he observed in the "He crossed the line by making a week's presidential election," Wild election process," the statement read. direct statement that he had voted on said in a letter to the Tribune. "If this "Caught up in the emotion of the more than one occasion on Election truly occurred, these individuals have moment, he did not stop to think of Day," the statement continued. not only violated the law, they have the ramifications which his statement ABC News h\1-s taken notice of the shown a cavalier disregard for the carried nor the negative impact the developments and will continue to fol­fundamental virtues of honesty and statement had." low the news on voting improprieties. integrity." 
TEXAS A&M 
Texas schools lay aside rivalry 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 

Tremors from the tragedy of the 1999 Aggie Bonfire collapse were felt across the state and remain in the thoughts of university students throughout Texas one year later. On Nov. 17 and 18, the UT Tower at the University of Texas-Austin [UT] will remain dark in remembrance of the 12 Aggies who lost their lives in the accident. Snow Montesinos. student relations assistant at the UT Ex-Student's Association, said that observing the tragedy is natur­al. "We wanted to make a special statement," he said. The darkening of the tower is a rare occur­rence, said Peggy Kruger, director of the office of public affairs at UT. The tower has been darkened only three times. In a letter to A&M president Ray Bowen, UT president Larry Faulkner wrote that the Bonfire is still in the thoughts of the students. "As we approach Nov. 18, the Bonfire accident at College Station a year ago still remains a strong memory on our campus," he wrote. 
UCLA 

Regents will negotiate lab control 
LOS ANGELES 

Despite security breaches, accusations of racial profiling and the mysterious disappearance of classified nuclear data, the University of California Board of Regents unani­mously agreed Wednesday to negotiate with the U.S. Department of Energy to retain management of the Los Alamos and Lawrence Livermore national laboratories. Last month, U.S. Energy Secretary Bill Richardson announced the department would enter into negotiations with the UC system to renew the contract. provided the university makes several improvements in its security and management. The current contract, set to expire in Sept. 2002, will be extended until 2005, granted negotiations between the department and the university are successful which begin next Monday. "The Department of Energy's action is a vote of confidence in UC's management and will allow us sufficient time to take several steps to strengthen laboratory oversight, among them recruiting a new vice president for the laboratory management," said UC President Richard Atkinson. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWealher l1I=istfor daytime conditions and high iempemrures 
The AccuWeathere forecast for noon, Thursday, Nov. 16. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day 
FRONTS: 
.....,,.. .................. 

O 2000 AccuWealher, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pro$SIJlr::

@coDDDDDD 
Hlflh low Shower• Rain r ... 1orm41 flurrlH Snow le• 
VsaA.s.socuirodPres.s 

Atlanta 56 34 Las Vegas 54 38 Portland 50 33 Baltimore 51 32 Memphis 46 31 Sacramento 61 37 Boston 56 35 Milwaukee 34 25 St Louis 41 27 Chicago 35 24 New York 52 36 Tampa 79 59 Houston 57 53 Philadelphia 51 33 Wash DC 51 35 

Friday, November 17, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ND faculty artists to present chamber music concert 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music will present a chamber music concert Sunday at 2 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art on cam­pus. The concert will feature Notre Dame faculty artists Carolyn Plummer {violin), Karen Buranskas (cello) and Maria Stablein (piano). The program will include piano trios by Schubert, Mendelssohn and Brahms. 
Admission is $10 for the general public, $8 for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College faculty and staff, $6 for senior citi­zens and $3 for students. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Student Center or by calling (219) 631-8128. 
Carolyn Plummer, associate professor of music at Notre Dame, served as assistant concertmaster of the Houston Symphony from 1977-86. She was a frequent soloist with the Houston Symphony, as well as an active recitalist and a member of Houston's chamber ensemble, Cambia.ta Soloists. Prior to joining Notre Dame's faculty, Plummer was a pro­fessor at the University of Florida and violinist for the Florida Arts Trio. 
A critically acclaimed cellist who has appeared as a soloist with orchestras in the U.S. and Brazil, Karen Buranskas is an associate professor of music at Notre Dame. She has per­formed in major concert halls, including Carnegie Hall, in the U.S., Europe, Japan and Taiwan, and has been a fea­tured soloist on National Public Radio and CBC broadcasts. The recipient of numerous awards, Buranskas was recently awarded a solo recitalist grant by the National Endowment for the Arts to record 20th-century solo works for cello. 
Maria Stablein joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1999 as a visiting assistant professor. She studied with Erich Appel at the Meistersinger-Konservatorium Niirnberg and with Bernhard Ebert and Arie Vardi at the Hochschule fiir Musik und Theater Hannover, where she graduated with the Konzertexamen in 1996. The recipient of numerous awards, Stablein won first prize at the International Competition of the 33rd European Musicfestival in Neerpelt, Belgium in 1985. 
ND prof studies Dead Sea Scrolls 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND. Ind. 

The Dead Sea Scrolls, hidden away in Holy Land caves 2,000 years ago and unearthed after World War II, are often rated the 20th century's greatest archaeological find. The chief reason for most people: the rediscovery of 230 texts of bibli­cal books. which have begun to change details in the Scriptures read by millions. 
For instance? 
The height of Goliath. "He's barely tall enough to make the all-star game," remarks Frank Cross, a Harvard University expert on the official team working on the scrolls. 
That is, in 1 Samuel 17:4 most English translations say Goliath stood "six cubits and a span," meaning a towering nine feet plus (about 3 meters). But a damaged Dead Sea 1?Crol! can be read as saying "four cubits and a span," a mere six and a half feet (2 meters). That's why the official U.S. Catholic Bible gives Goliath the shorter stature. 
Or consider Psalm 145, an acrostic where each verse begins with a successive letter of the Hebrew. alphabet. This chapter was always a head­scratcher because the verse for one letter is missing in the stan­dard Hebrew text. But a phrase with that letter turned up in a Dead Sea scroll and is tacked onto 145:13 in most recent translations; 
"God is faithful in his words and gracious in all his deeds ... " 
Further rewordings are expected and some of them could shift 
colors, the red-bearded, 61-demonstrated we have two bib­year-old scholar surveys his 23 lical traditions arising indepen­years of labor. dently of one another, instead of 
"I feel like the person who put one being a revision or corrup­the last stone atop the pyra­tion of the other. then which mids," he says. 'Tm as weary as one are you going to call God's can be, but I'm glad I did it." Word?" 
Ulrich was polishing the last Personally. Walton thinks volume on biblical texts for the Ulrich's conclusions are prema­official scholarly series from ture and professes himself Oxford University Press, which untroubled by any findings to will be a landmark in this date. The scrolls, which include painstaking and portions of all highly technical books except project. The "If Ulrich is on the Esther and overall effort hit right track, we've got Nememiah, the headlines in were written 
some major thinking 
1991 when two between 200 independent to do." B.C. and 70 A.D. groups, frustrat­In that same ed with the slow period. rabbis
John Walton 
pace of the offi­began establish­
professor,
cial scholarly ing the standard team, rushed Moody Bible Institute Masoretic Text, 
unauthorized editions of the texts into print so all scholars could begin assessing them. 
Ulrich's own assessment? He repeatedly encountered scrolls that "did, and didn't, look like 'what we call the Bible." 
His conclusion: In ancient times, two or more contrasting editions of many biblical books existed side by side and were all regarded as Scripture. In other words, back then the Old Testament was far different from what we think of today. 
He concludes that there were multiple editions for at least these books: Genesis, Exodus, Numbers, Joshua, Judges, 1 and 2 Kings, 1 and 2 Samuel, Jeremiah, Ezekiel. Daniel, Psalms and Song of Solomon. Ulrich spells out his theory in 
"The Dead Sea the basis for all 

Old Testaments since the early Middle Ages. 
Should the Bibles used in churches, synagogues and homes be thoroughly revised to reflect all the variations'? Not necessarily, says Ulrich. a lay Roman Catholic. But at least serious students should be read­ing a Bible with multiple options. And he insists that future Bible translations should be less wedded to the Masoretic Text and rely more on the alter­nate renditions. 
Scholars have just begun work on an "eclectic Bible" to show these textual variations, which will take years to com­plete. 
But Ulrich, with co-editors Martin Abegg Jr. and Peter Flint, has taken the first step with "The Dead Sea Scrolls Bible." The book presents new English translations of the Dead Sea biblical manuscripts (the scholarly Oxford volumes have the original Hebrew) with user­friendly explanations of how they differ from standard Bibles. 
The book is billed as "the old­est known Bible." The reason: The scrolls are a millennium older than the surviving Masoretic Hebrew manuscripts that provide the basis for all modern Old Testaments, which date from around A.D. 1000. 
Specialists know that this puz­zle of different Old Testaments, raised anew by the scrolls. is not really new. Before the scrolls were discovered, schol­ars were aware of three main editions: the Samaritan, which included only the first five books; the early form of the Masoretic Hebrew; and the Septuagint, a Greek translation from a different Hebrew ver­sion. 
(Catholic and Orthodox Bibles follow the Septuagint in includ­ing seven extra books that Jews and Protestants do not recog­nize as part of the Bible.) 


meaning. In all Bibles, "/feel like the person Deuteronomy 
who put the last stone 

8:6 speaks of 
atop the pyramids. I'm 

"fearing" or 
"revering" God, as weary as can be" but a Dead Sea scroll says "lov­
Eugene Ulrich

ing" instead. Should scholars Hebrew professor 
consider this change? 
To those for whom each word of the Bible was inspired by God, even such small alterations are significant. 
Still, as Cross puts it, "There is no 11th commandment." The rewording prompted by the scrolls does not challenge basic 
beliefs. But a fellow researcher, 
Eugene Ulrich, professor of Hebrew at the University of Notre Dame and chief editor of the Dead Sea biblical materials, sees far more sweeping implica­tions for the Old Testament (the 
Christian term for what Jews 
call the Tanakh). Seated at a customized com­
puter surrounded by galley 
proofs, infrared photographs and marking pens in six coded 
f acuity 
Th~ Univ~rtllq of Noire 'i'Jom~ 'i'Jipcrlmenl of Mu1ic preun11 

Chambrir M.u~ie 


WI\L'6 OF SILVER & BEI\I:ED JEWELRY STINER Rnrn AND 'JOE RIN?S PURSES, WALLETS, CHANGE PURSES 
TAPESTRY WALL HAN3IIDS/BEDSPREADS lNJ Mm Km MRE . .... .  INCENSE  SARONGS  
DIRECT ·IMPORTERS!  LOW  PRICES!  
N.Ef)•..  

HUGE MOVING SALE!I 
ALL CLEARANCE ITEMS MUST GO OR THEY WILL BE DONATED!! 
UNIQUE CHRISTMAS GIFTSII 
Pn:a:B::s fran sales of je,.elJ;:y g.arantee tre ~ h3rx:E of G.at:aTa1a1 faTiili.es 3 DITES t:lEir ~,S:tlary, c6 \\ell cE :furls frr t:lEir e:ll.aim. . 
LaFortune Room 108 
NEAR TELEPHONES 
NOV. 27 -DEC. 2 (SAT) 10-Spm 
Tick1Zl!1 S3~tudimti S6~1Znion S8 H'tl/~MC stoG'(l eveilebliZ et thil befortun!Z l3ox OfficlZ or cherg!Z by phon1Z (2'19) 631-8128. 
Scrolls and the Origins of the Bible." 
An example of the problems he and others ponder: In two of the Dead Sea Scrolls. Psalm 33 directly fol­lows Psalm 31, skipping num­
ber 32. Did the scribes who wrote those manuscripts believe 32 was not God's Word? 
And the opposite situation: Various scrolls include 15 psalms that are not found in standard Bibles. Sample: "Blessed be he who has made the earth by his power, who has established the world in his wis­dom ... " Was this Scripture that was later lost, or did Dead Sea scribes merely collect devotion­al poetry and mix it with biblical psalms? 
"If Ulrich is on the right track, we've got some major thinking to do," acknowledges John Walton, a staunchly conserva­tive professor at Chicago's Moody Bible Institute. The prob­lem as he sees it: "If it could be 
, Concert 
program inelud1Z!I piano triO!; by li>ehub1Zrl, Brehm:.;& M1md;zl!1!10hn 
Morie Ji>li\bkin, piono; Coralyn PluT'lm<r. \'iolin; o< Karl"' llunm,ko~. e~llo 

2 pm, ~unday, Nov~mb~r 19, 2000 '(lnniznbizrg ~uditorium, ~nitiz Mus!lum of flrt 
for mor1Z in omeition. pk:5.IIZ cell (2191651·6201, rz:me.il con o1m&@nd.izdu.cr \1i1il our "'~b iil!Z-E\t ¥1WW.nd.(ldu/~con. c~n. 
Bed N' Breakfast Registry Jilycc: Smigiclski · Stay ill a ..Home dose tothc Dome" 
219/232-0774 888/830-7722 http://husill(S5.mic.:hiam.org/bnhrcg/ 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used Books bought and sold 
-25 Categories of Books 
-25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in 
stock 
-Out-of-Print search service -Appraisals large and small Open noon to six Tuesdau through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
page 4 Friday, November 17, 2000
The Observer . NEWS 

priests and their housekeep­ers assassinated in 1989 by El
Protest Miami-Dade reconsiders recount
Salvadoran officers. many of 
continued from page 1 
outlined on its website, the SOA provides -cost effecting training in democratic values and human rights. 
But ils critics are many. An orgnnization called School of the Americas Watch was founded in 'I 990 to get the school shut down. decrying the fact that many of its 60,000 graduates have achieved international notori­ety for human rights abus~s. 
One graduate is former Panamanian dictator Manuel Noriega, now serving a 40­year sentence for drug traf­ficking. Hoberto D'Aubisson, a Salvadoran who is widely believed to have ordered the assassination 

whom were SOA graduates. 
Behind the coffins are thou­sands of mourners. each car­rying a white cross in memory of a victim. Many of these people will cross into the base, and thus risk arrest for trespassing. 
"We cross the line to demand justice for all the vic­tims that have died at the hands of the School of the Americas," senior Sarah Greeman said. 
Other students want the protest to bring awareness to government policy. 
Many see the United States playing a large part in perpet­uating the wars in countries like Columbia, El Salvador, and Mexico. Outside of train­
of Archbishop 

"We cross the line to ing Latin soldiers. 
Oscar Homero some students
demand justice for 
and three of voice concern the five all the victims that with the United Salvadoran have died at the States exporting military offi­weapons into the
hands ofthe School 
cers who killed hands of these three American ofAmericas. " Latin soldiers. nuns and a lay "I think there social worker needs to be a
Sarah Greeman 
in 1980 were revaluation of the
senior
also graduates 
of lhe school. 
This is what motivates the students traveling there this weekend. 
"In 1980 graduates of the SOA killed 800 people, destroying the El Mozote vi!­]age in El Salvador," said Maureen Capillo, a member of PeaceMakers at Saint Mary's. "We do not want our tax dol­lars to fund this school." 
The vigil itself is a two-day event. Saturday there is a rally outside the base gates. with speakers and concerts protesting the SOA. Sunday is the "Vigil for Nonviolent Civil Disobedience" in which pro­testers march onto the base itself in a "funeral proces­sion." 
The procession is led by marchers bearing eight coffins, one each for six 
Visit 

U.S. foreign weapons policy," Capillo said. 
Another goal of the vigil is to shut down the SOA. On this front. protesters have come close to success. 
ln 1996, Pentagon officials admitted that the SOA had used manuals on the use of fear, torture and truth serum in its classes. Last year. voting down several previous attempts, the House of Representatives approved a measure to cut $2 million from the SOA's budget. But the money was later restored. 
This year. for the first time, the Notre Dame students making the trip will be spon­sored by the Center for Social Concerns, the Institute for International Peace Studies and the Institute for Latino Studies and Campus Ministry. 

2000-0 I Season Notre Dame Film.Television, and Theatre Presents 

by Eric Bogosian, William Finn, John Guare, Tony Kushner, Marsha Norman, Ntozake Shange, Wendy Wasserstein 
DIRECTED BY SIIRI SCOTT 
__ .1.,­
PLAYING AT WASHINGTON HALL RESERVED SEATS $9. 
SENIOR CITIZENS $8. AU. STUDENTS $6. 

T1oCETS ME AVAII.AIILE AT THE DOOR OR IN ArNANCE AT LN'Ofm.JNE S"ruOENT CENTBI.. 
MASTS.CAA[) ANDVISA ORDERS CAil. 631-8128. 

Some themes and language in this play may be offensive to some viewers. 
WEDNES°"'Y, NOVEMBER IS THUMOAY, NOVEMBER 16 
F,JO,t.Y, NOVEMBER 17 
SAT\J1'0AY, NOVEMBER 18 
SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 19 
Associated l'ress 
MIAMf 
Miami-Dade County may jump into the presidential recount again Friday when its canvassing board reconsiders a request 
f r o m Democrats for a hand count of presiden­tial bal­lots. 
T h e panel pre­

v i o u s I y Bush rejected the request on a 2-1 vote. 
County Democratic chair­man Joseph Geller asked for another chance Wednesday, and the board set a hearing for Friday. 
Republican attorney Bob 

Martinez fought the move, charging the request was "out of line" and pleading for an end to political maneuver­ing. 
"What you're being asked to do here is reverse yourself. and that stretches the fabric 
of the 


law," he s a i cl . "People are going to say, 'is there no end to this?"' 
Co u·n ty 
Gore J u d g e 
Lawrence King, the board's chairman and lone vote for more count­ing, said: "I think there is no harm if either party wants to file something in writing." 
Gore picked up six votes after a hand recount of 5,871 
Conference 
continued from page 1 
The teachers in attendance this weekend rep­resent education at all levels and at all kinds of schools. 
"The conference is open to educators from ballots in three overwhelm­ingly Democratic precincts. But the board then voted 2-1 against recounting all 654,000 ballots. 
Miami-Dade is one of four counties where Democrats sought complete hand recounts. Volusia finished in time to meet a Tuesday dead­line, Broward faces a court challenge Friday to its count, and Palm Beach was starting its hand count Thursday night. 
Democrats hope the recounts can turn up enough new Gore votes to overcome the 300-vote Bush margin certified Tuesday. 
Secretary of State Katherine Harris has said the state will not include any of the post-Tuesday recount fig­ures in its official tabulation. which she intends to announce on Saturday. 

Catholic schools, private schools and public schools, so we really do have a range of all schools in the community." said Judy Gibson. associate director of Alumni Continuing Education. 
"Educators will return to the classroom with a greater appreciation for their vocation and a stronger commitment to their students," said Sullivan. 
ATTENTION ALL OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS Rutgers Game Watch 
at 

BW'3s 
$1 All you can eat WINGS 
· (for the first half) 
Door Prizes!!! Starts at 3:30 PM 
*Sponsored by your Off-Campus Council & BW3's 

Friday, November 17, 2000 C0MPH.ED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

RUSSIA 
Cabinet to ditch Mir space station 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Explosion kills 5: An explosion at a muni­tions factory in Cuba killed at least five people and wounded 11 more, the Revolutionary Armed Forces reported Thursday. Another three soldiers were unaccounted for. The cause of the Wednesday explosion at the Comandante Ernesto Che Guevara Military Factory in Villa Clara province was under investigation. The accident occurred as troops were unloading a military truck outside a warehouse. 
Legionnare's disease infects 40: 
Investigators were scouring ventilation and water systems for the source of bacteria that has infected at least 40 people with Legionnaires· disease, health officials said Thursday. At least four of the victims are in serious condition. said Joan Guix, director of Barcelona's Health Department. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Feds raid home of ex-Klansman: 
Federal agents raided the home of former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke on Thursday, carting off boxes of documents and a rifle dur­ing a search that lasted more than seven hours. FBI agent Sheila Thorne refused to disclose the 
. nature of the investigation. But Roy Armstrong, who identified himself as Duke's bodyguard and a caretaker at the house. said agents told him they were looking into whether Duke was ille­gally using money raised for his new white­rights organization for his personal use. "It's a fishing expedition," Armstrong said. 
Court blocks Texas execution: The 
U.S. Supreme Court blocked Thursday night's execution of a convicted killer said to be so mentally retarded he spends his days coloring with crayons and still believes in Santa Claus. The high court said it wanted more time to decide whether to hear arguments that Johnny Paul Penry's mental deficiency was not proper­ly explained to the jury. The justices did not say how long the stay of execution would last. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 

Two shot on ISU campus: Two people were injured in a shooting Thursday after­noon on the Indiana State University campus. University spokeswoman Teresa Exline said the shooting happened on the north side of the campus at about 1 :20 p.m. EST. She said the victims are not !SU students. University public safety director Bill Mercier said shots were fired from a sports utility vehicle that pulled alongside the victims' car. The gun­shot victims were taken to Union Hospital in Terre Haute, where they were listed in stable condition. 
Market Watch 11 /1 6 
IXJw 

10,656.03 -51.57
/ONES 


Composite
yj!... Same: 

Volume:
L838 497 
NIA 

Nasdaq: 3031.88 -133.61 
NYSE:, 


S&P 500: 1372.32 -17.49 TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN l'RlCE MICROSOFr CORP (MSFT) -1.60 -1.12 6R.94 t;ORTEL NETWORKS (NT) -7.85 -2.93 34.44 INTEL CORP (INTC) -361 -1.50 40.00 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -5. JB -1.49 27.38 WORLDCOM INC (WCOM) -2.29 -0.37 IG.00 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
Russia's Cabinet decided Thursday that the space station Mir will end its 15 years of pioneering achievements and white­knuckle mishaps with a fiery plunge into the Pacific Ocean in February. 
Mir's successes and tribulations mirrored the epochal changes that shook Russia during its time aloft, and ditching it in a remote corner of the sea 900 to 1,200 miles off Australia will extinguish a potent symbol for many Russians. 
But Mir is deteriorating, foreign investors who bought ihe station an eleventh-hour reprieve this year haven't met their com­mitments, and Russia 
VIETNAM 
Associated Press 
HANOI 

President Clinton began a. historic visit Thursday to Vietnam, stirring painful memories-back home of America's longest and most unpopular war and promising a former enemy "to build a different future." 
Clinton arrived in the communist capital late at night, the first U.S. prcs­ident ever jn Hanoi, a city once bombed by American warplanes. The welcoming ceremony was put off until morning, but that didn't stop thou­sands and thousands of Vietnamese from turning out at midnight to catch a glimpse of Clinton's limousine and wants to concentrate its revenues on the 16-nation international space station, which received its first crew last month, Russian Space Agency chief Yuri Koptev said. 
Koptev said it would be unsafe to leave Mir aloft without new, expensive missions to refurbish it. 
"This year has already been rich with disasters," he said. "We must not encourage new attacks and speculations aimed against our country." 
Russia's one-time image of technological prowess was severely tarnished this year by the sinking of the nuclear submarine Kursk and the fire that engulfed Moscow's TV tower, one of the world's tallest struc­tures. 

Russia also was embar­rassed by the funding prob­lems that caused it to fall years behind in launching a key module of the NASA­led international space sta­tion. But its launch this summer, followed by the station's first Russian­American crew arriving in a Russian space capsule, has restored some of Russia's pride. 
For years, NASA has been urging Russia to con­centrate its funds on the international project. 
"Our concern has only been that the Russians have adequate resources to support their commitments to the international space station," NASA spokes­woman Debra Rahn said Thursday at the space agency's Washington head­quarters. 
"We've always said the decisions on Mir are the sole purview of the Russian government," she said. 
When Mir was launched Feb. 20, 1986, it was the epitome of achievement for the Soviet Union, which had already launched the world's first satellite and put both the first man and first woman in orbit. 
The first of a series of mishaps that were to bedevil Mir took place only a year later: the station's second module, Kvant 1, was unable to link up because of an "alien object" blocking the dock­ing port. The object. later reported to be a plastic bag, was removed during an unscheduled spacewalk by the crew. 
jam the square in front of his hotel. 
Even though the visit received scant advance publicity, the Vietnamese lined the streets, some just looking on and others waving and clapping when the president's motorcade passed. 
"This only happens once in a thou­sand years," said homemaker Tran Thi Lan, 50. 
Clinton was to be formally welcomed Friday by President Tran Due Luong at an. honor guard ceremony in the courtyard of the French-built presi­dential palace on Ba Dinh Square. 
Reaching out to a generation of stu­dents born after the war, Clinton will speak at Hanoi National University to describe his vision for a new chapter in U.S.-Vietnamese relations. State­run television was to broadcast the address live. 

More than 50 U.S. corporations sent executives to Vietnam during Clinton's visit in hopes of gaining a foothold in what they believe is a vast untapped market of 78 million people. 
As a young man, Clinton "opposed and despised" the Vietnam War, orga­nized protest marches and avoided the military draft. As commander in chief three decades later, Clinton acknowl­edged that "A lot of people still bear the wounds of war" in both countries. 
The war cost 58,000 American lives and tore the nation with suffering and turmoil. 
page 6 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 17,2000 
SPECIAL EVENTS 
THE FOLLOWING EVENTS ARE HAPPENING AT 
THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE: 
Author Events: 
Saturday, Nov. 18 from Noon to 12:45 p.m., parenting experts Adele Faber and Elaine Mazlish will answer questions and sign copies of the classic, 
How To Talk So Kids vVill Listen & Listen So Kids Will Talk. 
Tuesday, Nov. 21, at 11:00 a.m., Storytime features the book Big Hungry Bear, with craft and sing alo9g. 
Tuesday, Nov. 28, at 11:00 a.m., Storytime fea.'tqr~s ........:..:,••: the book Sleepy Bears, with craft and sing along..:: 
..,-,µa~ 

Thursday, Nov. 30, from 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 ~...Jl... Digger Phelps signs copies of his newly Basketball for Dummies. Digger is an ESPN Commentator and former basketball coach Dame. 
Thursday, Nov. 30, from 3:00 p.m. to 5:00 p;.:rl.,(,::::< join artist Nancy Swan Drew for a tea party~ will encourage your creative spirit and help 'v'µ't~11·,-aq"'*'"' wonderful holiday gifts. 
Thursday, Nov. 30 at 7:00 p.m., local pediatrician Dr. Yuval Brandstetter, writing as Moses Brand, will discuss and sign copies of his new and timely book. Joe's Tflal. Written over a period of six Y~i~)i: 
:; :,; /~if~(/ .f:?f :.:/iduring whichtime Dr. Brandstetter servedWit:f!t!q~;{ ·•rr....~~.;,L;..~!:....A...~...L__......_~~~~ 

ECK CENTER
Israel Defense Force in Lebanon, this is a.fictional version of the political and scientific. events of the 1990s and their relationship to the grand,,scn~le <.1~:1,t:I; the ongoing Arab-Jewish conflict. Dr. Brijpd~f~iter;i:;;~i>:. specializes in Blood and Cancer diseases it1 c¥1if~rerM)i!) and is a nat1've·•. o·f· I·srael. ··•,,;,:. Jct?<
-)->:VJ\~; F::J;~· \: 


HtmmesNotte Bookstore Varsity Shop (in the Joyce Center) iF~tY , (~;QO am· 10:00 pm Friday 9:00 am · 5;00 pm :~!:µ~day/ /;8:0o am -10:0.0 pm Saturday 8:00 am -7:00 pm ..,Sppday· 9:00 am -.10:QQpm Sunday 10:00 am -4:00 pm .:::::::·.:::::.:::.:~(}):: :.:. 


Friday, November 17, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Biotech corn hurting U.S. exports 
Associated Press 
WASIHNGTON 

The government is reporting a steady drop in exporis of corn, evidence that the mishandling of genetically engineered grain on Midwest farms is starting to damage U.S. markets OVf'rseas. 
The Agriculture Department on Thursday reported net sales of 517,700 metric tons for the week that ended Nov. 9, about half the weekly rate in October. Japan, by far the biggest U.S. customer. purchased less than 150,000 tons during the week, less than half lts normal amount. 
"This is a big drop-off and it is a concern to us and to anyone who wants high prices for corn," said Chris Schaffer, man­ager of international operations for the U.S. Grains Council. 
A variety of biotech corn not approved for food use prompted nationwide recalls of taco shells in September and October. The corn also was discovered in snacks and animal feed in Japan. The Agriculture Department subsequently reached agreement with Japan for screening U.S. corn ship­ments. 
Purchasers in South Korea, another major U.S. market, have expressed concerns, too, about the biotech corn known as StarLink. 
When the Korean corn 
processors association earlier by the corn's developer, Aventis this week solicited bids for corn, CropScience, to temporarily the United States was omitted approve it for food use. from the list of eligible sellers. No decision by the agency is The Korean government has expected before December. issued a recall for U.S.-made The Food and Drug tortillas, although the manufac­Administration disclosed on its turer says there was no corn in Web site this week that a major the product. food processor, ConAgra Inc., 
Agriculture Secretary Dan has pulled some of its corn meal Glickman acknowledged that and corn flour from the market 
StarLink  is  because it may  
probably  a  contain  
cause of the  'This is a big drop-off  StarLink. The  
export drop. "That's why we're work­ and it is a concern to us and to anyone who wants  problem was reported to FDA in early  
ing  to  get  high prices for corn."  October. The  
StarLink out  company told  
of the inven­torv," he  Chris Schaffer  the agency the product was  
said.  marketing manager  never distrib­ 

0 n Wednesday, his department offered to start testing corn for StarUnk at the request of elevators and bther grain handlers. A fee will be charged for the service. 
Federal regulators say there is little, if any, health risk for the corn. but it was never approved for human consump­tion because of unresolved questions about its potential to cause allergic reactions. 
The discovery of the corn in the U.S. food supply has so snarled grain traffic in the United States that the Environmental Protection Agency is considering a request uted. 
Corn prices had been dropping for a week on the Chicago Board of Trade and fell again Thursday morn­ing when the export report was released. Prices rose later in the dav as investors concluded the outlook was not bad enough to keep pushing the market down. 
"There definitely is a StarLink concern," said Jason Roose. an analyst for U.S. Commodities Inc., West Des Moines, Iowa. But he said the corn exports should turn around as foreign customers gain confidence that U.S. is being properly screened for the biotech grain. 
Residents: space station alDiost livable 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 
The skipper of the new international space station says the air condition er thumps and other equipment clatters, but the toilet, thank­fully, works great. 
"That's one thing that's working really well." NASA astronaut Bill Shepherd reported Thursday, two weeks after he and two Russian cos­monauts became the station's first full-time residents. 
In his weekly status report, Shepherd said the crew spent a couple days trying to reduce the bothersome noise from the air conditioner. 
"We have a lot of equipment that runs all the time. Some of it's quiet. Some of it's not," he said. "We would like it to be a little bit quieter, but it's cer­tainly livable." 
Overall, Shepherd said living conditions are a little better than what he expected. He said it took him about three days to settle in and sleep throughout the night. 
Shepherd and his crew arrived for a four-month stay on Nov. 2. 
The three men spent the first week installing an oxygen generator, carbon-dioxide removal unit and other life­support systems. It took longer than planned, Shepherd said, because of hard-to-find parts and confusing procedures. 

"It's kind of a brave new world for an organization like NASA, where we fly 100 pounds of documents on each shuttle flight," he said. "But we're kind of a test bed for how that's all going to work. So far. it hasn't been flawless. but it's been working OK." 
Shepherd said the men also have had to contend with com­puter problems and spent con­siderable time organizing their new home. 
The workload is about to pick up. 
A Russian cargo ship loaded with food, boots. brackets. cables, trash bags and another air conditioner is due at the space station late Friday, fol­lowing a two-day night. 
The crew will have just two weeks to unload the carrier, put away all the gear and then fill the carrier with garbage for jettison. All this must be done before space shuttle Endeavour can lift off on Nov. 30 with a new set of solar wings for the station. 
Once the solar wings are installed, Shepherd, Yuri Gidzenko and Sergei Krikalev will have full run of the space station. One of the station's three rooms currently is sealed off because of limited power. 
Flight director Jeff Hanley said the crew and Mission Control will have to work on Thanksgiving. 



Celebrate Native An1erica11 tleritage Week \Vith tl1e Native An1erican Student Association of Notre Daine! 
Come see the 6antiago family perform Native American Dances and eat traditional Indian foodl 
Multicultural Student Programs & Services 


Multicultural Student Programs and Services {MSPS) focuses on ensuring the retention and success of hlstorlcally underrepresented 
student.and providesopportuni­
ties for all &tudents to explore Is• sues of diversity, personal Iden­

FRIDAY. NoV.17 2000 
tity, multicultural education, and leadership development. 
Staff: 
lrla Outlaw, Director 

Traditional Dances ~ Dinner
Mulfcultura/Alfairs 
andDiversity&Jucalion 
Kevin Huie, Asst. Director 
leadershipOeve!opmentand StudentProg1i1111millg 

6:g;,O p.m. \Valsh JJaLL f;)asement 
Adela Penagos, Coordinator 
AcademicEnrk:hmenland StudentSuccess 

free Admission 
Phone: 2191631-68'1 Fax: 2191631-3162 www.nd.edui--omsa 


Friday, November 17, 2000

page 8 The Observer . NEWS 


Company to pay Holocaust victims 
Associated Prc.s 
ROME 
The Italian insurance com­pany Assicuriazoni Generali on Thursday agreed to pay up to $100 million to settle thousands of Holocaust-era claims. 
The agreement, which came after protracted negoti­ations, was signed in Home by former U.S. Secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger, chairman of the International Commission for Holocaust Era Insurance Claims, and the general manager of Generali. Giovanni l'erissinotto. 
"This whole exercise has taken much too long," a weary Eagleburger said. "It has taken us more than a year to get 

The agreement signed Thursday allows Generali to deduct payments on Holocaust-era claims it has already made from the $100 million fund, according to one of Generali's lawyers, Marco Schnabl. He said the compa­ny has paid out more than $7 million in the past year. 
Eagleburger said the com­mission is now going to set up its own mechanism to handle claims and may enlist a Generali-financed Holocaust foundation in Israel. "We have to work out all the details." he said. 
As part of the agreement, the commission also is help­ing Generali muster support for extricating ilself from lawsuits over Holocaust-era claims. Eagleburger said. 
Thursday's deal won a 
q u i C k 
here." Perissinotto said he hoped  "This whole exercise has taken much too  endorsement i n Washington,  
the  agreement  long. It has taken us  where Deputy  
would bring "closure to a matter of highest  more than a year to get here."  Treasury Secretary Stuart  
moral concern."  Eizensta.t  
No one knows  Lawrence Eagleburer  issued a state­ 
Ye t  hO w  man Y  former Secretacy of State  ment  saying  

Nazi-era claims Generali might end up paying. The commis­sion is conducting a world­wide search for Holocaust survivors who may have unpaid insurance policies. 
Eagleburger said the com­mission was adding 20,000 names unearthed in German archives by its researchers to the list, which is published on the Internet. 
"It demonstrates the value of aggressively pursuing the research necessary to uncov­er the documents, records, and testimonies necessary to identify potential claimants and ultimately achieve jus­tice, which has eluded us for more than half a century," he said. 
The Web site now has 19,000 names, including 9,000 Jtalian policyholders. 

the United 
S t a t e s "encourages" resolving Holocaust-era restitution matters "on a cooperative basis, rather than subject vic­tims and their families to the prolonged uncertainty and delay that accompany litiga­tion." 
The International Commission for Holocaust Era Insurance Claims includes Jewish and Holocaust survivor groups, 
U.S. and European regula­tors, the country of Israel and five European insurance com­panies that operated during the Nazi era and now have subsidiaries in the United States. 
It was established two years ago to settle unpaid insurance policies issued between 1920 and 1945. 
Civil rights leader Williams dies 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
Hosea Williams, the fiery lieutenant to Martin Luther King .Jr. who was at the fore­front of the civil rights strug­gle for more than three decades, died of cancer Thursday. 
He was 74. 
Williams died at Atlanta's Piedmont Hospital, where he was admitted for an infection Oct. 20. He was diagnosed with prostate cancer three years ago and had a cancer­ous kidney removed last year. 
"We were with him when he was absent with body and were present when the Lord took him," said Williams' daughter, Elisabeth Williams­Omilami. "He was selfless. What he did for this earth will now reveal itseJf because the fruit of the seeds he sowed will begin to emerge." 
The chief organizer of King's marches and demonstrations, Williams helped lead the "Bloody Sunday" march in Selma, Ala., in 1965. Another leader, John Lewis, called Williams a patriot. 
"Hosea Williams must be looked upon as one of the founding fathers of the new 
RETIREMENT I_N5U.RANCE 

America," he said. "Through his actions, he helped liberate all of us." 
Williams was also at the Memphis, Tenn., motel where King was shot in 1968. 
He recalled his anger that day during a 1993 interview with The Associated Press: "I was wishing I could pull some molecules out of the air and make me a weapon and 
"Hosea Wzlliams must
just wipe out he was beaten every white be looked upon as one bloody while person near, ofthe founding fathers trying to use a because I whites-only
ofthe new America."
thought they drinking foun­had shot Dr. tain at a bus King at that station in time." Americus.
Elisabeth Williams-Omilami 
He contin­During 1.he
daughter
ued: "I said to myself, 'America, racists, economic exploiters, you sure have messed up now ... because there·lies the only one among us, the main one, who has tried to keep us calm. Now you've killed him."' 
The shot, he said, ended King's dream because it frag­mented his lieutenants. 
Williams was born Jan. 5, 1926, in Attapulgus, Ga., the illegitimate son of a blind girl who fled a state training school when she discovered 
Building your assets is one thing. Figuring out 
how those assets can provide you with a 
comfortable retirement is quite another. 
At TIAA-CREF, we can help you with both. You can count on us not only while you're saving and planning for retirement, but in retirement, too. 
Just call us. We' II show you how our flexible range of payout options can meet your retirement goals. 
With TiAA-CREF, you benefit from something few other companies can offer: atotal commitment to your finanoal well-being, today and tomorrow. 
*Note. Availability may depend on your employer's retirement plan provisions contract. Under federal tax law, withdrawals prior to age 59½ may be sub1ect to restrictions, and may also be subJect to a 10% additional tax Additional restrictions also apply to :he T!AA Traditional Annuity. 
she was pregnant. lie was raised by his grandfather, whom he described as a tough man who had killed at least three people, including one on church steps on a Sunday morning. 
A drifter who held odd jobs across Florida, Williams wound up in the Army, was badly wounded in Europe and returned to Georgia, where 
next five weeks 
in a military hospital, he recalled, he kept thinking: 'Td fought on the wrong side." 
Williams later taught agri• cultural chemistry bef'orc join­ing the civil rights movement. He recalled his children crying in a Savannah drug store when hP, told them they could not join white children spin­ning on soda counter stools because of segregation rules. 
He became King's advance man throughout the South during the 1960s. 

MUTUAL FUNDS TRUST SERVICES TUITION FINANCING 
TIAA-CREF provides financial solutions to last a lifetime. 


With TIAA-CREF, you can receive:* 
• 
Cash withdrawals 

• 
Systematic or fixed-period payments** 

• 
Interest-only payments 

• 
Lifetime income payments** 

• 
A combination of these 


"Guaranteed by our claims-paying ability. 
CREF GROWTH ACCOUNT1 
1 YEAR 
5 YEARS 
SINCE INCEPTION 

AS OF 5/30/00 
6/30100 
4/29/94 


CREF Growth is ~ne of many CREF variable annuities. 

1.800.842.2776

1--------------------------1 
www. tiaa-cref. org
1------------------------'--------­
For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest. 1. Due to current market volatility, our securities products' performance today may be less than shown above The invest­ment results shown for CREF Growth variable annuity reflects past performance and are not indicative of future rates of return. These returns and the value of the principal you have invested will fluctuate, so the shares you own may be more or less than their original price upon redemp­tion. • TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the CREF ;md TIAA Real Estate variable annuities. • Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements. • TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co.. New York. NY, issue insurance and annuitie, • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. 
• Investment products c1re not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03 
Friday, November 17, 2000 
The Observer . NEWS page 9 
U.S., Yugoslavia re-forge ties 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

After an exchange of diploma tic letters, the United States and Yugoslavia will re-estab­lish a relationship that soured in the conflict over Kosovo: They will reopen their embassies in each other's capital within the next few days. 
In an interview Thursday with state radio in Belgrade, President Vojislav Kostunica said Yugoslavia was "returning to the world swiftly, its head high up, and with dignity." 
He also said his govern­ment would focus its rela­tions mostly on Europe and Russia, while also forging ties with "the most powerful country in the world -the United States," and others. 
Earlier, the Yugoslav government announced it was ready to restore diplo­matic relations with Germany, France and Britain as well. 
Still, -more than a hint of discord remains. Kostunica has refused to send Slobodan Milosevic and a handful of the former president's loyalists to The Hague, Netherlands, for trial on war crimes charges. 
Kostunica has said they should face justice in Yugoslavia. But Foreign Minister Goran Svilanovic on Thursday said visas would be issued to tribunal personnel to reopen an office in Belgrade. 
'Tm not aware that the new government has fully moved ahead on a number of matters," a State Department spokesman, Philip Reeker, said while welcoming Belgrade's invi­tation · to renew ties 
The Yugoslav embassy in Washington and the U.S. embassy in Belgrade will be open for consular ser­vices and staffs will be hired. Also, Reeker said, the United States was reviewing restrictions on travel here by former Yugoslav ollicials. 
The U.S. ambassador, William Montgomery, will exchange 
presidential
"We hope to restore
t h a t letters and Milosevic the strong ties that diplomatic suspended have historically notes with the under bom­Yugoslav for­
characterized the 
bardment eign ministry by NATO relations between in the next warplanes our two countries few days. And last year. t h e n ,
and peoples."
T h e Montgomery assault, led said in by the Philip Reeker Belgrade, the United U.S. embassy
spokesman,
States, would be "up
State Deparbnent
forced and running." 
Milosevic to withdraw Serb troops and special police from Kosovo, where they had been accused of repression of secession-minded ethnic Albanians, who comprise a majority in the province. 
Kosovo's links to Serbia are based on strong cul­tural and religious ties. 
"We hope to restore the strong ties that have his­torically characterized the relations between our two countries and peoples," Reeker said. "We expect to complete the procedures for doing so within the next few days," he said. 
Relations with Milosevic were virtu­ally nonexistent toward the end of his 13-year rule. The Clinton administration did not disguise its hope that Kostunica would take the presidency from him in an election in September. 
A legal scholar, the new president questions the independence of the war crimes tribunal, which has indicted Milosevic and other senior Serbian mili­tary and political officials. 
The United States and its allies, meanwhile, have made no effort to arrest them. 
VIETNAM Hillary Clinton to meet with Vietnamese women 
Associated Press 
Setting out on her own, Hillary Rodham Clinton plans during her stay to Vietnam to meet with women Wh.o have benefited from a micro­credit program that provides money to e n c o u r a g e women to estab­lish small busi­nesses. 
The first lady arrived by her­self Thursday and was joined Clinton by her husband, daughter and mother when Air Force One landed to start the first visit to Hanoi by an American presi­dent. 

Mrs. Clinton, just elected as New York's junior senator, intends to use her visit to spotlight Vietnamese women, whose profile rose during the Vietnam War, slipped in peace­time and has begun to ascend again. 
She flew from Israel, where she delivered a eulogy at the funeral of Leah Rabin, widow of former Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin. 
U.S. Ambassador Pete Peterson and young women wearing the tra­ditional ao dai, a long flowing tunic over loose-fitting pants, handed Mrs. Clinton flowers as she stepped off her plane. 
With no official activities sched­uled for the day, Mrs. Clinton toured an art gallery and went shopping on Hang Gai Street, famed for a string of shops offering wares ranging from inexpensive souvenirs and high-quality silk products. 

Boisterous crowds gathered every­where she went, even though the city had come almost to a halt to watch the national soccer team compete in the semifinals of the Tiger Cup regional tournament. 
Mrs. Clinton waded into one group, shaking some of the hun­dreds of hands extended toward her. 
The war with the United States raised the status of Vietnamese women, many of whom fought side by side with men. Some rose through government ranks, particu­larly in the communist North. 
When the war ended in 1975 and the country was reunited, many women found themselves nudged back to the sidelines as soldiers returned from the battlefield to prior jobs. 
The pendulum has been swinging slowly back in recent years -the vice president, Nguyen Thi Binh, is female -although women who ven­ture into business or politics still are generally expected to be house­wives, too. 
With her election last week to rep­resent New York in the Senate, the profile of Mrs. Clinton's visit has been elevated. 
Before leaving Monday to return to the United States, she is to give a speech in Ho Chi Minh City, formerly Saigon, while her husband address­es a business reception. 
~ftft~~ftftftftftftftftftftftftftftft~ftft 
~ 
i.=j;;\'~E. 
CAMPUS YIEIII APARTMEftTS
~ 
It~!. 
1801 IRISH WAY-SOUTH BEND, IN 48637-(219) 272-1441 
~ 
l:'.:s."~. 
~ waLktug Distance to campus!!
;,j=l_'.lj 



~ 
f:ti{f'.!

LOOKING PORA 

rit!11 :
NEW ''VIEW'' NEXT PALL? ~ 
~ 
Jtt~_!j 

~­~ 
It::t.!.1.• fi~i_n:
CAMPUS VIEW OFFERS: 
ft (it~!.
*Large, spacious apartments 
~ 
4Jr.,....
:,:,:t~_ij *Limited Renovated Kitchens *Swimming Pool, Tennis and Basketball Courts 

~ 
*LOCATION! A short walk to a Grocery Store, Drug Store, ii!.~.1 
~

Restaurants, and CAMPUS! 
~•t~~

*Affordable Pricing 
~ 
tii~~.: 

Filling Fast! Reservations now for Fall 2001. Get them while they lost! ,6:\ 
(il.~_l!j 

*SELECT UNITS AVAILABLE SPRING SEMESTER 2001 * ft fj;~_!).• ~ftftftftftftftft~etftft~ftftftftftftftft 



page 10 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, November 17, 2000 
Group says U.S. needs 
Amtrak's bullet train debuts 
Associated Press 

better space spying 
Associaud Press 
WASHINGTON 

The United States may even­tually become "deaf and blind" to terrorist threats unless it devotes more resources to developing new technologies for spying from space, says a congressionally chartered group. 
The 11-mcmbor National Commission for the Review of the National Reconnaissance Organization, which reviewed the federal agency in charge of space-based spy­ing. concluded 
"Without bold and 
era of American transporta­ments for intelli­sustained threats it may 
that require­devastating 
tion," Transportation Secretary gence from satel­face in the next 
Rodney Slater said at a kickoff
leadership, the 
ceremony in Washington. 
lites have grown 10 to 20
United States could 
Regular service on the train the agency find itself'deafand report said. 
so rapidly that years, the 
begins Dec. 11 in the responsible for The commis­
Northeast. Rail enthusiasts
blind' and 
hope favorable reviews will
building and sion recom­
increasingly 
boost demand elsewhere in the lites the vulnerable to any of lis hi-ng a new 
operating satel­mended estab­
country for high-speed trains. National office, under 
Amtrak. which has received

the potentially 
$23 billion in federal operating
Reconnaissance the direction of
devastating threats it 
subsidies since its inception in being stretched mayface in the next tor. to allow 
Organization -is the NRO direc­
1971, is under orders from too thin. the govern­
Congress to become financially
10 to 20 years." 
self-sufficient by 2003. High­in telligence pro­greater techno­
"Users of the ment to make 
speed rail plays prominently in vided by the NRO report 1 o g i cal 
its survival plans. NRO's satellites advances in 
Amtrak wants its bullet train have long com-space recon­
to compete with airline shuttles peted for priority," the report naissance. It suggested calling 
popular with Northeast busi­said. "But now, the number of it the Office of Space 
ness travelers. Acela Express these customers has expanded Reconnaissance. 
will cut about a half-hour off dramatically.... In the absence "The new office would attack 
the current Metroliner train of additional resources, the the most difficult intelligence 
service between Washington NHO is being stretched thin problems by providing 
and New York and about 45 trying to meet all its cus­advanced technology that will 
minutes from the New York-to­tomers' essential require­lead to frequent, assured, 
Boston trip. ments." global access to protect U.S. 
A one-way coach ticket The report was posted on the national security interests," 
between Washington and New commission's Internet web site the report said. 
York will be $143, compared Wednesday. The commissioners also con­
with $122 for the Metroliner. 
The commission was created cluded that the NRO's move by Congress in the Intelligence toward public openness in the Authorization Act of 2000 and 1990s has backfired. 
1992. is an agency of the Defense Department and is staffed by employees of the department and the Central Intelligence Agency. 
The commission concluded that the NRO's "clarity of mis­sion" and sense of urgency have dissipated since the end of the Cold War, and that the president and secretary of defense need to give more pol­icy direction. 
"Without bold and sustained leadership. the United States could find itself 'deaf and blind' and increasingly vulner­able to any of the potentially 
WASHINGTON 
High-speed rail travel in the United States debuted Thursday with the maiden run of the sleek Acela Express, which hit an Amtrak-record 150 mph during the New York­to-Boston leg of a trip that begap. in Washington. 

A full load of VIPs nibbled on salmon, filet mignon, prosciutto and caviar hors d'oeuvres as they made history aboard the train that Amtrak and high­speed rail advocates hope rep­rcsents the future of U.S. ground travel. 
"Today's inaugural run sym­bolizes the beginning of a new Travel between New York and Boston will cost $120, com­pared with $57 on conventional Amtrak trains, which will con­tinue to run in tho Northeast. 

For the 300 passengers invit­ed for the inaugural run from Washington, the day began with breakfast inside a stately restaurant in Union Station that once served as a VIP suite for presidents and other digni­taries preparing to ride the great trains of America's past. 
"We gather in the same place this morning to prepare to ride the great train of the future, York as a reward for perfect attendance record this year. She gave the train a grade of "pretty cool." 
The train got a rave review from sex therapist Dr. Huth Westheimer. who hopped aboard briefly in New York to say hello to Michael Dukakis, the former Massachusetts gov­ernor who is now Amtrak's vice chairman. 
"I think it's a very sexy train," she said. "Maybe you can walk around and find a partner here. Those of you who don't have partners ... " 
"... !ind them on Acela," Dukakis said, 
Among those greeting Acela Express passen­gers in New York were Gov. George Pataki, former New York Mets star Keith Hernandez, actor Henry Winkler Acela," said John Robert Smith, the mavor of Meiidian, Miss., and member of Amtrak's gov­erning board. 
Wisconsin Gov. Tommy Thompson, Amtrak's chair­man, chris­

"I think it's a very sexy train. Maybe you can walk around and find a p~rtner here." 
Dr. Ruth Westheimer sex therapist 
tened the train by shattering a bottle of California champagne on Acela's tapered nose. 
Passengers remarked about the spacious restrooms, over­head luggage bins, oversized windows and brightly colored blue-and-purple seats. The cafe car includes bar stools and serves beer on tap. 
Acela Express pulled out of Washington just before 10 a.m. It arrived at New York's Penn Station two hours and 26 min ­utes later -two minutes ahead of schedule. 
"We deliver!" Thompson said emphatically to the crowd gath­ered to welcome the train. 
Eighth-grader Alicia Garrison 
• was among 11 students from 
J.R. Masterman school in Philadelphia taking the free ride from Washington to New 
is headed by Rep. Porter Goss, "Widespread knowledge of H-Fla., who is chairman of the the NRO's existence and public House Intelligence Committee, speculation on how NRO satel­and Sen. Bob Kerrey, D-Neb., lites are used has aided terror­who until recently was vice ists and other potential adver­chairman or the Senate saries in developing tech­Intelligence Committee. niques of denial and deception 
The NRO, which was created to thwart U.S. intelligence in the 1950s, but whose very efforts," it said, without pro­existence was a secret until viding any details or examples. 
Social Concerns Seminar: Theo 366 

,••
Spring 2001 

CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

and cast members from the Broadway show "Fosse," who stuck to the railroad theme by performing the song "Steam Heat." 
The train had a date with his­tory later in the day. At 4:18 p.m., near Kingston, R.I., the train hit a top speed of 150 mph, faster than any train in the 29-year history of Amtrak. 
"Congratulations. and let's toast," Walt Peters, Amtrak's chief scheduler, said over the loudspeaker as passengers applauded. 
The train arrived in Boston ­two minutes early, again -and was greeted by fireworks shot from the top of South Station. "This is the future. We've seen it," Dukakis told several hun­dred people gathered to greet the train. 


Friday, November 17; 2000 8:00pm to 11:00pm at the Stepan Center 
Free and open to all ND and SMC students and faculty 
Come dance the night away to the music of Son de Aquil 
-> A two-week service-learning opportunity in Mexico: May 15 -30, 2001 -> Students earn one credit (Fall 2001) -> In Mexico, students experience and reflect upon the economic, political, 
and social realities of Latin America -> Students chosen to participate in the Mexico Seminar meet weekly during the Spring Semester to plan, organize and fundraise for the trip -> Knowledge of Spanish is helpful, but not required 
• > Open to Notre Dame and St. Mary's juniors, sophomores, and freshmen -> The Seminar fee is $500 ($ 100 deposit with remainder due later) 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING Monday, November 20, 2000 
4:30 p.m. Center for Social Concerns For more inform,ation contact: 
Joe Lake, 634-4931 Jay Brandenberger, 631-5293 

Salsa Dancing Lessons from 8:00-8:30 Free Drinks and Snacks provided 
Sponsored by Student Activities Office and La Alianza 

Friday, November 17, 2000 
The Observer . ELECTION 2000 page 11 
Bush won't dispute Iowa results 
Associated Press 
DES MOINES. Iowa 

George W. Bush's campaign gave up on Iowa's seven elec­toral votes Thursday, portray­ing him as a candidate willing to respect 
v a I i d results when they go against him. 
"People have voted and the votes have 


b  e  e  n  Bush  
counted,"  
said  Eric  Woolson,  a  

spokesman for Bush's cam­paign in the state. "Let's get on with it.·· 
Democrat Al Gore had forged a lead of just over 4,000 votes in the state out of about 1_3 million cast, accord­ing to the latest count. 
Congress may play role in race 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Republican and Democratic leaders prepared Thursday for the possibility that Congress might elect the next president, though members of both parties said they considered that unlikely. 
Among the possibilities: A process, spelled out in a 19th century law. by which Congress might annul Florida's contested electoral votes. Under the Constitution. that could send the presiden­tial election to the House and leave the vice president's selection to the Senate, creating the improbable possibility of a president and vice president from different parties. 
Amid escalating political tensions. top law­makers from both parties were issuing memos or compiling historical and procedural informa­tion about Congress' role in the elections. 
Among them were Rep. Bill Thomas (R-Calif.) chairman of the House Administration Committee, who said he hoped to have an objective report on the subject from the non­partisan Congressional Research Service by Monday. 
"There are many backwater areas of our jobs that aren't visited on a weekly or monthly basis," Thomas said. 
A separate two-page memo by House Majority Whip Tom DeLay (R-Texas) described a process by which the House and Senate could vote to 




.
, 
:~· \ :.~ 
' -~ 
j 

'-"' 
' 

Taste of Nations 
Tl I . I S d c-) · · · 1 · I · 1«~A~~(g
1e nternatHma .. tu· cnt .rgan1zat10n w us 1es to extern r:;~~D 
a warm .invitation to all students lO taste the world's be~t cuisine! lntcrnaLional Students \Vill be preparing their 
coumry's. 1.11ost trad.iti<·'·nal. anJ. fa.·:'01.·i.~e plates: .A.ll stuJcnts
urc welcome to come and en.ioy tor only 3 dollars! When? Friday, Nov. 17. 7:30prn -9:30pm \Vhl'rc·1 Center ror Social Concerns 
Corne Tasie The World! 
Hepublican Bush had a Thursday deadline to ask for a recount, and strategists had debated for days about whether to take that step. 
Some Bush backers pushed for a recount to keep the state in play as an insurance policy, should things go wrong in Florida. By giving up on Iowa, Bush was placing his hopes almost entirely on Florida. 
Campaign chairman Don Evans announced in Austin, Texas, that Bush would not seek a recount in the "excep­tionally close" race. 
"l3oth sides waged vigorous campaigns in Iowa,"said Evans. "Governor Bush believes the time has arrived for our nation to begin the process of moving forward." 
Bush campaign officials in the state conceded privately that there was not much hope of reversing the election's out­come. 
While a 4,000-vote margin 
reject some or all of a state's electoral votes. His paper does not mention any states or candi­dates by name, and DeLay spokesman Jonathan Baron said the lawmaker "neither expects nor desires this to be decided in the House." 
But with the high-stakes Florida battle between Republican George W. Bush and Democrat Al Gore still raging, some congres­sional Democrats viewed the GOP research as the start of an effort to thwart Gore's election. 
"I don't think the country would stand for that," Rep. Martin Frost of Texas, a member of the Democratic House leadership, said of any House effort to invalidate a state's votes. "That would be a blatant partisan act by Republicans." 
Frost said he was updating a report he had prepared 20 years ago on House procedures for electing a president. 
Others researching the issue included House Minority Leader Dick Gephard (D-Mo.); Rep. Steny Hoyer of Maryland, the top Democrat on the House Administration panel; Rep. David Price (D-N.C.), a former political science profes­sor; and Democratic and GOP Senate leaders. 
In a part of the presidential election process usually ignored. each states' electors -chosen by the voters on Election Day -will meet in their state capitals on Dec. 18 to cast their votes for president. A joint session of the new Congress will convene on Jan. 6 to officially count those ballots. 
is the closest presidential election in decades, the state does not use punch ballots or others likely to be miscount­ed. 
A canvass after the original tally -where most mistakes are likely to be found -shift­ed only about 1,000 votes. 
Democrats were glad to make the same point. 
"We've got a fair and honest system here and a recount wouldn't have made any dif­rerence," said Iowa Democratic Chairman Rob Tully. 
With Bush's decision, the vote count will be certified by the state's Executive Council. a panel of statewide elected 
officials, on  Dec. 4.  Four of  
the  five  members  of that  
panel are Democrats.  

The result also means that Iowa will fall into the Oemocratic column for the fourth straight presidential election. 
Bush rests on ranch; aides grow subdued 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN. Texas 
George W. Bush stayed on his isolated Texas ranch as subdued advisers shed the exuberance of a week ago when they paraded would-be Cabinet members before cameras. The new reti­cence reflected both the passage of time and the growing intlu­ence of James Baker. 
Top Bush campaign officials said little on Thursday, leaving details of the vote. recount in Florida to the former secretary of state, known for his meticu­lous attention to detail and care­ful-use of language. 
Baker, a longtime friend of Bush's father and also close to GOP vice presidential nominee Dick Cheney, had not played a visible role in Bush's campaign. 
But, from Tallahassee, Fla .. he is increasingly becoming the voice of 

"Win or lose, this
the campaign in its 

he discussed current state of election will be potential transi­limbo. 
tion planning. 

over."
Campaign chair­
"We are all 
man Don Evans came 

awaiting the out­to the podium on Don Evans 
come of this elec­
Thursday and read a chainnan, tion. I think that's 

statement lasting Bush campaign appropriate,"
only a few minutes in which he said the Bush campaign wouldn't demand a recount in Iowa, closely won by Gore; and that in Florida a law setting a deadline of midnight Friday "must be respected." 
"Win or lose, this election will be over," Evans said. He took no questions. 
The night before. Bush came back to Austin from his ranch ­about a two-hour drive -just long enough to deliver a state­
ment.  He  read  from  a  
TelePrompTer and took  no  
questions.  

The Texas governor then returned to his 1, 500-acre ranch, where he has been since last Friday evening. 
Campaign officials were slow to return phone calls and had little information on what Bush was doing on the ranch, or when he would resurface. 
"We'll let you know when he comes back," aide Gordon 

l lf 
/ \ 
i 
-.•.·.~··.,··.··•·•.·:•......·.. ·~~··;.•.
; :"i'f1, tf · ·.. _ 


Johndroe told reporters at cam­paign headquarters clamoring for more information. 
Johndroe said he didn't believe anyone was with Bush on the ranch other than wil'e Laura. "They're working on a variety of different things," Johndroe said. The ranch is near Crawford, Texas, about 80 miles northwest of here. 
In the days immediately after the election, Bush advisers exhibited no reluctance in talk­ing about transition planning for a Bush presidency, saying it was in the national interest. More recently, they've grown silent on the subject. 
Condoleezza Rice, expected to be the national security adviser in a Bush administration, declined to discuss it on Thursday. She had been one of those presented in a picture-tak­ing session last week with Bush in the governor's mansion here as 
Rice told a 

reporter in Washington, D.C .. where she was attending a foreign policy conference. She said he had been in frequent contact with Bush to keep him apprised of national security developments, but she would not elaborate. 
She said he was heartened that the American people have been "demonstrating their faith in the system," even if it sends a message to the rest of the world that "democracy is sometimes a little bit messy." 
Evans' brief statement appeared designed to signal to the nation a desire by the Bush team to wrap things up. "The process must have a point of conclusion," Evans said. It offered no-recount in Iowa as a good-will gesture. But his state­ment wasn't as simple as it appeared -it would cut off Democratic hopes to continue vote-counting in Democratic­leaning counties beyond the Friday deadline. 
Republican strategists saw the clear hand of Baker at work . 
Bush aides said that all ques­tions pertaining to the vote count were being referred to Baker in Florida. That left little to say in Austin. 
Frank Luntz, a GOP pollster not connected with the cam­paign. said Baker has handled his assignment "pretty well. He stopped talking about process and started talking about princi­ples in language that the American people can under­stand." 
GARY/CHICAGO AIRPORT 
The easy, hassle free way to fly. 
Fly to Orlando/Sanford • Portsmouth, New Hampshire• St. Louis/Belleville, IL• Philadelphia/Allentown, PA
~-,~· 
-. Af'EfP;rking • Easy access to all highways • Convenient • Secure 
For Pan Am: 1-800-FlY·PANAM www.Uypanam.com For More Information 
www.garychicagoairport.com 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 12 BSERVER Friday, November 17, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 Souch Dinins Hall. Nocro Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEf Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR OPFRAfl0NS MANAGER Chrisiinc Kraly Brian Kessler 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly V1EWI•OINT EDITOR: Ula Haughey Sroars EDITOR: Kerry Snrnh SCENE EDITOR: Am,u,da Greco SA!l\T MARv's EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHonJ EDITOR: Elizabeth L:ing 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: !'at Peters Av DESIGN MANAGLH: Chris Avila SYSTT.MS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB Al,MtNISTRATOR: A<lam Turner CoNl'ROl.1..1::tt: Bob Wood. GIUPHIGS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CoruAcT Us 

Omcll MANAGllRIGENliRAL INFO .............. 631-7 47 l FAx..... ... . . . .... . . ... . . .... ...... .... . . .... ... . G3 l-G927 ADVERTISING...................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDffOR IN CH!EF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EnrroR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS Ornci-: ..................................... 631-5313 NEWS....................................................... ...631-5323 
observer.obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VII-.WPOINT.................................................G31-5303 observer. viewpoin t.l@nd.edu SPORTS.......................................................63 l-4543 
obscrver.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE................ ........................................631-4540 observer.scene.J@nd.edu 
SA.INT MARv'S .............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOT0........................................................631-8767 
SY~TEMSIWEB ADMINl5TRATORS................63 l-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http:llobserver.,zd.edu for daily updates ofmmpus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from tl1e Associated Press. 
SURF TO: weather for up-to-the movies/music for minute fore=ts 

weekly srudent reviews 
·online features for spe­and rates of print ads advertise for policies cial campllS coverage 
archives to search for about The Observer 

articles published after 

to meet the editors and August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and on line by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Ohsecver. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions chrough lccters is encouraged. Letters co the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qu,:,tiom rrga,ding Obseroer policies siHJuld 1M direct­ed to Editor in Chi~fMilu Connolly. 
Big speakers deserve bigger venues 
Tim Russert's lecture Monday in the hordes of people that tried to attend McKenna Hall on "Washington from the the lecture and therefore should have Inside Oui" was an internsting and very provided a larger venue for the event and timely event. With lively anecdotes from given students priority to attend. his career, a run-McKenna Hall is not the down of the 2000 only, nor is it the largest, 
OJhe

presidential cam­lecture hall on campus. paign and an expla­Russcrt's talk easily nation of his vision could have taken place for the future of at a larger site such as American politics. Washington
FJitorial 

Russert kept the audience spellbound for the entire lecture. 
Too bad many students were not able to hear it. 
The planners of the Jack Kelly and Gail Weiss Lecture Series on Journalism should have had the foresight to expect 
Hall or a Debartolo classroom. Because 
· McKenna Hall was the chosen localion, many students were blocked from the room and forced to stand outside, strug­gling to hear Russert from the hallway. Not only isMcKenna Ilall too small for a speaker of Russert's caliber. but the 

seating arrangement limits its capacity further. Because the front of the auditori­um contains several large conference tables, seats close to the podium are lim­ited. Had those tables been removed. more chairs could have been put in their place, allowing morr people to attend the lecture. 
The sponsors of the event should be commended for making an effort to bring speakers such as Russert to Notre Dame. however, their efforl-; are overshadowed by poor planning. 
In the future. when speakers or nation­al prominence and interest, such as Russert or Joseph Liberman come to campus; the largest venue should be cho­sen so that the most students possible can be exposed to their ide,LS. 
Election endangering our nation 
So this is what it has come down to. 
Both sides alleging voter fraud; pro­testers demanding new elections; a face-off between two equally question­able candidates, neither of whom wants the political black eye of being the bad guy, but wants less to lose. A hijacking of legal procedures by a partisan official whose position is being phased out anyway. An end­less and random recount of ballots by officials who can't understand how it went wrong. 
This sort of thing is supposed to happen in third world countries and democracies struggling to subsist in the face of vast social problems, not in the largest, most successful country in the world at the height of its largest eco­nomic boom in decades. 
But, with all eyes on Florida and the law suits about vote counts, protests and partisan speeches corning from both sides. this election looks more like one that we would send President Jimmy Carter and Senator George Mitchell to oversee. 
The Secretary of State of Florida, a close ally of the Bush campaign, has attempted, from the first minute that the results were in doubt, to railroad this election through before the vote could change to favor Gore. 
The county election boards, mostly Democrats, have attempted. from the same minute, to recount as many times as necessary to find the result that they want. 
I think that Florida should have allowed a hand count from the first doubt and set up standard procedures for such a count. That count could then become official and there could be no legal challenge to either side. 

I voted for Vice President Al Gore. 
then again, so did 57 percent of 
Maryland. I did not vote for his domes­
tic policies or against those of his oppo­
nent. I don't believe that either candi­
date would change much of the eco­
nomic and social climate that has exist­
ed for the last eight years and I think 
that things are going pretty well on the 
economic front and at least progressing 
on the social front to the point that 
domestic issues are not a concern. After 
reading a number of learned opinions 
on the subject -one in this very news­
paper -Supreme Court appointments 
were not an issue that moved my vote. 
Governor Bush, with the very weak nature of the Texas gubernatorial office, is not up to the job of President of the United States. He can say that he has led one of the largest states in the union. but he does not do much more than preside over the legislature and they do not meet that often. 
Additionally, with his apparent inabil­ity to grasp international situations as evidenced by some of his answers in the presidential debates, I have serious reservations about Bush's ability to handle foreign policy in a time when it is so very important. But Bush can sur­round himself with knowledgeable peo­ple. What worries me more is the tint of Republican discourse. 
With the razor's edge of unprecedent­ed violence that the Middle East is walking and the fledgling democratic spirit that has taken hold in Serbia, we cannot afford to adopt an isolationist attitude toward the world. I worry that the Republican agenda is just that. 
That said, I will be happy if Bush wins and Gore graciously concedes. I will be just as happy ifthe reverse happens as well. This election needs to end, but more importantly, both sides need to meet and with a show of friendship tell the American people that they have decided to follow the results regardless of what those results might be. 
Instead there is stony, adversarial feel to this election. It is feeling dangerously like a power struggle. Have we gotten so partisan and so completPly unroa­sonablv obstinate on issues that there is no room for debate? Is there no room for the type ol' compromise that brought this nation through its infancy in the late-eighteenth century and through its coming of age in the mid to late-nine­teenth century? 

This gesture would not just be for the American people. Every day that we look like we may have a Constitutional crisis or that the Republican and Democratic candidates hide out in their respective havens is another day that the stock markets around the world feel a slight panic. It is another day for a country like Pakistan, Iraq, Palestine or Israel to decide that the United States is in enough chaos for them to pull some destructive stunt. 
It also worries our allies and all of the countries whose democracy is pat­terned after ours. How strong is a faint reproduction of American democracy if the original can break down so com­pletely? 
Of course, by the time that you read this column. the last of the absentee ballots have probably made their way to Florida and hand recounts have either been allowed or banished. 
Regardless of the decisions on hand counts and pending law suits, the elec­tion should end now and our new President should take his place. And God help the man. for he has no man­date nor does he have the support of even 20 percent of the country (50 per­cent of the 100 million Americans who voted). Hopefully this will humble him enough that he will work with his fellow politicians on the other side of the aisle to actually fix some of the damage that this protracted process has done. 
Matt Loughran is a '97 graduate of Notre Dame and his column appears every other Friday. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of the Observer. 
DILBERT 

------_-_-_-_""'._-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_---------­
-
I'M FROM THE DOG BER.T TEMP AGENC'Y. DO YOU NEED A HAND? 

~ 
2 
\!l.) 
i ~ 
SCOTT ADAMS 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Power is inflicting pain and humiliation. Power is in tearing human minds to pieces and putting them together again in new shapes ofour own choosing. " 
George Orwell author 
THEN I 5AID,

I GET 
"DON'T GET MAD;

IT. HEE 
TRY COUNTING 

HEEi 
TO FIFTEEN. " 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THf Friday, November 17, 2000 BSERVER page 13 
GUEST COLUMN 
Getting the election opinions of people who IDatter 
HANOVER, N.H. 
As a result of this year's incredibly elose elec­tion, the American media have focused only on Vice President Al Gore, Governor George W. Bush and the state of Florida for the past week. Unfortunately, this has resulted in the total 
Hemant Joshi
absence of opinions asserted by people who are not "experts" working 
The

for news organizations. In 
Dartmouth
fact, many notable indi­viduals who have valu­able opinions concerning the election have not had the opportunity to voice their ideas because the news stations arc so determined to have their own people explain the manglement of this year's election. 
It is important that we Americans hear the thoughts of those shunned by the networks, and therefore I suggest the following people be inter­viewed so that they may share their important feelings concerning the election. 
Monica Lewinsky-Not only has this woman had sexual relations with that man, but she has also lost weight through some special diet. These features make her representative of a sizable part of the female population in the U.S. 
No doubt she has several important statements to make regarding the election. Perhaps she would shed light on the fact that presidential mistresses often have been discriminated against in the election process. 
Then she would charge that there was some sort of voter intimidation involved. One of the two major political parties would then say, "No way! Voter fraud stuff doesn't happen in our non-racist, unprejudiced, great, perfect country." 
Then Monica would say, "Yes it does." 

And then that same party would say, "OK, but we're going to criticize you for taking legal action and then hypocritically take legal action our­selves to stop you from rechecking the votes cast." 
And that's probably what would happen when news stations decide to interview her. 
Ralph Nader and Patrick Buchanan -Nader failed to get his 5 percent and he also failed in his little mission to completely destroy the Democratic Party and its chances at claiming the presidency. Buchanan simply failed to get any votes, except from his staunchest supporters ­the elderly Jews and minorities of Palm Beach. 
An interview ·with Ralph and Pat would allow them to comment on their respective failures and would also give them the opportunity to describe their promising friendship. Both would talk of their common interest in stealing votes from the evil Democratic and Republican parties and their plans to take over the country. Both would also note, however, that despite their budding rela­tionship, they often get into arguments concern­ing strategies taking over the country. 
Nader's plan would be to annihilate Democrats and Republicans with very green foliage, unpol­luted air and "consumer-powered, universal, accessible, quality health care" forced upon them and then take over everything. 
Meanwhile, Buchanan would argue that a much more efficient way would be to collect all the immigrants in the country and just launch them into D.C. That way. Buchanan would argue, the country would be getting rid ofits two biggest threats. 
Both would squabble during the interview; each asserting that his way is the best. Finally, they would realize that they don't have a chance to complete either plan and Nader would move to Canada and Buchanan would move to 1939 Germany. 
Jeb Bush -Jeb has the punishing job of gov­erning a state characterized by ineptness on all levels -ineptness by the officials who designed ballots in Palm Beach County, the residents of that county who can't read the ballots and the officials who don't know how to deal with the · problem of people who can't read the ballots. 
Further, Jeb failed to deliver his state to his brother even though he "assured" George that the state would be in the Republican column Nov. 7. Interviewing Jeb would allow him to defend his poor execution ofthe master plan to cheat Al Gore of thousands of votes. 
George would phone in during the interview and disparage his brother, calling him a "poopy head" and saying, "Al Gore shouldn't get Florida. Jeb, the Ultimate Authority on Everything, promised the state to me. I can't believe that butthead broke his promise." 
The name-calling would escalate and finally Jeb would be forced to divulge the fact that George was once the biggest supplier to Yale drug circles. George would counter by saying that one time when Al Gore was in college he found a quarter and kept it. 
People would forget George's petty offense and become outraged with Al's atrocious actions. In the end, the Jeb Bush interview would become famous for ending Gore's political aspirations forever. 
Elian Gonzalez -Whatever happened to this wonderful child? For days he was our country's only news. He was so important that everyone from government to preschool was discussing his plight. Why has he not been contacted about our election? What an injustice! 
Elian must have several valid points to make about the two candidates and the state of Florida where he was held captive. Speaking through a translator, Elian would explain to the interviewer his position on America's electoral process, com­paring the benefits with the drawbacks. 
When asked how he came to be so smart at such a young age, Elian would most likely answer that during the few short days he was in Florida, he received a wonderful education from Florida's astouµding public school system. 
He would then proceed to whip out an Uzi and point it at the interviewer's face, defending this action by saying it was also something he learned in the free United States. 
It is essential that each of these people be allowed to express his or her views on the elec­tion. The absurdity of allowing only "experts" to dissect American politics must be stopped, as it perpetuates the idea that regular Americans (and little Cuban boys) aren't interested in the happenings of our government. 
Of course, we all know that people actually do care a lot -how else could our country manage a turnout of over 50 percent? 
This column first appeared in Dartmouth College's newspaper, The Dartmouth, on Oct. 15, 2000 and is being reprinted here courtesy ofU­WIRE. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Coach Brey thanks students 
To the MOB: 

We just wanted to thank you for all of your support during the preseason. We are excited aboµt getting started Saturday night with you with us evrry step of the way. 
Always remember how much a part of our team you are. We need you! 
Let's make this a special season together! Go Irish! 
Coach Mike Brey 2000-01 Irish Men's Ba,kerball Team November 16, 2000 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Taking strides toward rape education 
On Tuesday night, we had the privilege to attend the talk given by Katie Koestner on sexual assault prevention in the Library Auditorium. For all ofus there, it was an amazing, eye-opening experience into the realities of date rape as well as the role we can all play in helping eliminate rape both from our campus and from our world. 
Katie is such an inspirational and courageous woman in her true commitment to this issue and love for others that we would like to extend a heartfelt thank you to her for coming to campus to edu­cate us on this all-to-important issue. 
We, however, would like to make sure that our gratitude does not end with that thank you. Having been among some of the men in attendance, we would like to add our names to those who are fighting nationwide to prevent rape. We pledge to promote healthy relationships in our own lives; to stand up against any jokes, pres­sures or norms condoning or promoting rape; to provide witness to realities of date rape and what can be done; and finally, to be sup­port for any woman who needs our help. 
In closing, we would like to challenge all our fellow members of the Notre Dame family to join with us in this fight and make a simi­lar pledge in their lives. Together we must break out of the box of believing that this is only a women's issue. 
Date rape affects all our lives whether we are male or female, and it is going to take the concerted effort of both sexes to make true strides in one day achieving a day without rape. 
Dominic Angiollo Drew Gawrych Danny Goodwin Brian O'Donoghue Chris Pearsall Michael Riley James Schuyler Andrew Serazin Jemar Tisby ·David Zachry Jay Smith November 16. 2000 


Praising Martin Sheen 
This may sound silly, or like I'm too easily influenced by the sway of popular culture, but how can I get Martin Sheen to be the com­mencement speaker this spring? Not just the actor Martin Sheen, but Martin Sheen the activist, the liberal and the supporter of social change for the good of the country. Liberal may not fly too well around here, but I think it would great and I'm sure I'm not alone in thinking this. 
The West Wing (the television series, not the actual offices) has been a recent source of pride as Notre Dame students, alumni and fans all over the country can point out to their friends that the fake president is wearing a Notre Dame sweatshirt that anyone can still buy at the bookstore. Some might say that it's all part of a vast NBC conspiracy, but so what? Mr. Sheen is supposed to be a fan in real­life too, and the time is right to pay him back for his support with an invitation to speak at campus this spring. 
Besides, anyone who would say "Michigan sucks" twice on a prime time program deserves some sort of reward. Let's all get together and welcome Mr. Sheen to campus next semester. Finally, a cause we can all get behind. 
Jeremy Joslin 
sentor 
Siegfried Hall November 15, 2000 

w E 
ceneN D 
O
THE 

page 14 BSERVER Friday, November 17, 2000 
Without football, what doe 
Beacon Bowl_ and Chippewa Bowl face off in the battle of the alleys as Scene judges which lane is the best bowl for your buck 
By JEFF BALTRUZAK 
Scene Writer 

Imagine a perfect evening in South Bend: the loud crashing, Lhe smell of old dirty shoes and the squeals of delighted townies. 
A weekday night at the Boat Club? 
Hardly. The to-mile radius outside of' Notre Dame contains two bowling alleys -Chippewa Bowl, south of downtown on Chippewa Street, and Beacon Bowl on Lincoln Way West near the airport. 
But which wins the Battle of the Alleys? 
Atmosphere and Food 

Beacon Bowl, by the South Bend Airport, is a quintessential bowling alley, straight out of' "Kingpin"or "The Big Lebowski." The visitor enters the building to find 52 lanes of hardwood in what Beacon employee Cheryl Deardurff calls "one big straight line." 
The alley has the tra­dition a I snack bar with pizza, hamburgers and French fries, and the usual assortment of hard-core bowlers and little kids' 

midnight on weekdays and 2 a.m. Saturday and Sunday. 
In terms of atmos­phere and food, advantage Chippewa. 
There's no arguing with lane number supremacy and jalepeno poppers. 
Entertainment . 
One of the most essential parts of any bowling alley is the arcade. 
After all, bowling can't be the only dis­traction if a visitor is only rolling up scores 
u n d e r 100. 
Clearly, Chippewa Bowl has the advan­tage in this criti­cal cate­g o r y . T h e i r games are concen­trated in 




birthday parties, with open lanes every night for those who like to drop in. 
Chippewa answers with an insane 70 lanes of bowling action, set inside a building that looks like the safest place to be if the Hussians ever bomb South Bend. As employee Janet Briones says, "the advantage of 70 lanes is that we have open bowling every night." 
Chippewa also features a fully stocked snack bar, with mozzarella sticks and jalepeno poppers as specialties. 
Both alleys open at 9 a.m. every day and close at 
one area, 

w h i I e Beacon Bowl has them spread out down the concourse, discourag­ing the lazy college student from travelling from game to game. 
Beacon Bowl, strangely, lacks pool tables in its lounge 
LIZ LANG/The Observer Beacon bowl features college night twice weekly, along with the popular Rock 'n' Bowl Fridays -sure to entertain. 
area. Chippewa has them, however, providing another source of entertainment besides just bowl­ing. 
The folks at Beacon strike back with a quality darts facility in their lounge area. But once again, Chippewa gets the edge. Sure, bowling is fun, but visitors need a little extra. 
Beer and College Night 
Bowling and beer go together like macaroni and 
cheese. Low prices mean more drinking, which 
means more fun, and· Beacon Bowl has better 
prices on pitchers, $6.50 versus $7.75 at 
Chippewa. Beacon features the usual selection of' 
domestic brews on tap, including Miller Lite, 
Budweiser and Bud Light, as well as additional 
varieties of bottles. 
For solitary drinkers, both facilities will charge 
$1.65 for a glass on tap, but Chippewa charges 15 
cents less for bottles. 
Beacon and Chippewa feature College Night on 
Thursdays, and Beacon has it on Mondays as well. 
Both offer the same deal: $5.95 for unlimited 
bowling between 9 p.m. and midnight. 
For those patrons fortunate to have their own 
bowling shoes, they avoid the extra charge for 
those spiffy clown shoes with the funny smell. 
Sadly, neither alley's College Night has any dis­
counts for beer or food, but Beacon throws in a 
free soda, included in the $5.95 charge. 
Beacon receives the advantage in this category, 
and a bonus point for the extra College Night. 
That brings the score of the Battle of' the Alleys 
to 2-2. 
Tiebreaker 

Chippewa has really cool bowling balls, nudging them over the finish line. Beacon is a fine alley with fine people, but as Boines put it, "Chippewa's a better center."

w E 
ceneN D 
~HE 

Friday, November 17, 2000 vfjSERVER page 15 
South Bend have to offer? 
Now for the feature presentation -Movies 14 or Showplace 16; which is the best pick for your flick fix?· 
By KATIE MALMQUIST 
Scene Writer 
Believe it or not, behind the tumbleweeds that blow through the streets of South Bend there are a few havens for all the Notre Dame movie goers out there. But how do you avoid those townie magnets with tiny, cramped theaters and popcorn lined seats? Well we're here to help guide you through a pleasant movie going experience. 
Cinemark Movies 1.4  
. 910 Edison Road  
As part of Cinemark's international theater  
chain, Movies 14 is located only a few short blocks  
east up Edison Road, which makes it particularly  
accessible from campus.  
Unlike many of the other theaters in town,  
Movies 14 offers a student discount on all evening  
shows that brings your ticket price down to $5  
with a flash of your blue and gold 1D card. The  
prices are discounted from $6.50 Sunday through  
Thursday and $6.75 on Friday and Saturday.  
Whether or not the student discount makes up  
for the Big Top lobby is up to you. If you're not suf-.  
focated by the checkered tile and flashy neon lights  
that are enough to induce nightmares of clowns  
and circus rings, you'll be lucky to make it to the  
concession stand without getting tired of the pop­ 
corn crunching underneath your feet.  
In the event that you do make it there, however,  
you may be delightfully surprised by the salt-it­ 
yourself popcorn (in $2, $3, $4 and $5 dollar bags)  
and ice cold drinks (running from $2.25-$3). And if  
you can brave it back again sometime during the  
show, Movies 14 promises free refills -with a  
catch. Only the large soda and two largest pop­ 
corns can be refilled, but after all, it's only 25  
cents for an extra eight ounces of Mountain Dew,  
right?  
_Inside the auditorium, though, it's a whole other  
story. If you make it there anytime before the start  
of the movie (which, face it, you probably won't),  
they do offer a good 15 minutes of various trivia  
and movie facts to help pass the time.  
While only half of the 14 screening rooms offer  
stadium seating -which means you could very  
PETER RICHARDSON/The Observer well be stuck behind Marge Simpson -they all  
While Movies 14 opens for matinees daily and has lower prices on refreshments, Showplace 1.6 fea­have high backed chairs that tip back to about a  
tures all-stadium seating and free refills on all drinks no matter what the size.50 degree angle, making for a fairly comfortable  
viewing experience. ·  
Again, the only concern is the popcorn on the Though Showplace 16 is a bit of a haul (actuallyfloors which can become a noisy nuisance if anyone only about 10 minutes south on US-31), the over-all tries to leave the theater in the middle of the movie. movie-going experience should be more worth yourBottom line: Movies 14 may be close to campus money. Owned by the prominent Midwestern chain but it's far from being the best in town. Movies 14 of Kerasotes, Showplace 16 also offers a student opens daily at 12:30 p.m. and closes after the final discount which brings evening tickets of $6.50 to a show of the night. mere $5 -for most of you, that's less than you  cheesy, but somewhat less harsh on the eye. They seem to run a clean ship, too -the only popcorn to be found on the lobby floor is behind the concession counter. And here's the best part: Showplace 16 offers free refills on everything from smoothies to popcorn with prices ranging from $3.10 to $4.52. This is a little more expensive than Movies 14, but  
spent on your last laundry day, and it promises to  some might find the personal butter pumps worth  
Showplace 1.6 be a lot more fun.  the expense, as customers can decide the exact  
. 450 Chippewa Drive Showplace passes up the ever-popular circus  degree to which they drench their popcorn in but­ 
theme for a silvery futuristic look that is equally  tery syrup.  
Inside the 16 theaters, which are all stadium,  
high-back seating and equipped with either Dolby  
Digital or DTS digital sound systems, the cleanli­ 
More places to go ifyou're Ix,red..... 24-·Hll"I@Mel H•IU Brass·Eagle Family Billiards ~~!". '' 1202 S. Lafayette Bl 1 710 N Ironwood Dr  ness factor holds up. The chairs here do not rock, and the seat cushions do not flip up like regular theater seats, which means they collect popcorn easily. Still, a hard working staff makes sure they remain clean and comfortable. The elevated seating assures a perfect view of the screen and flip-up arm rests let you cuddle with your date ­of course they also double as a convenilmt barricade between you and the creepy townie you've been forced to sit next to.  
Showplace 16 opens no less than 30 minutes


Bottom Line: If you're going to make the trek to
233.2323 

Deney's 
D6 anyway, why not settle for a few extra minutes 
in the car in exchange for a few more enjoyable
52626 us 31
Clocktower Billiards 
ones in the theater? 


51 400 US Route 31 Holl~ood Diner 
before earliest show time and offers open caption
271.0211 52820 us 31 
showings for the hearing impaired. 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 3, 2000 
XFL 

Ventura to announce 
..... 
new league's ga01es 
As•ociated Press 
NEW YORK 
Networks have been playing an ongoing game of "Can you top this?" when it comes to hir­ing football analysts in hopes of 
creating a b u z z a b o u l broad­casts. 
There appears to be a win­ner: NBC 

t a PP i n g Ventura Minnesota Gov. Jesse Ventura for the XFL. It's hard to envision some• thing more bizarre than a sit• ting governor taking time away from the statehouse to provide commentary for a fledgling pro football league whose main selling point in TV commercials has been the cheerleaders. Dennis Miller seems bland in comparison. "I don't think I'll have any 

-
handcuffs on me. I'll be free to express my opinions. whether they are right or wrong," Ventura said Thursday. "This is going to be a lot of fun." 
The XFL, a joint venture between NBC and the World Wrestling Federation, opens its 10-game season in February. NBC will broadcast games in prime time on Saturdays, gen• erally the lowest-rated night of the week. 
"Saturday night needs a real rejuvenation," NBC Sports chairman Dick Ebersol said. "We can go into that time peri­od. six days after the NFL sea­son's over, and we can do the 4 or 4.5 rating that we've promised advertisers." 
If the ads run so far are an indication -they've shown 

armored tanks on a battlefield 
and the inside of a cheerlead­
ers' locker room; none has fea· 
tured a player -NBC is aim­
ing more for sensational than 
sports. 
And that could draw both the 
teenage wrestling fans the net­
work hopes will watch the XFL 
and sponsors it hopes will buy 
commercial time. 
"I think Ventura i.s a plus," said Paul Schulman, president of media buying company Schulman/Advanswers NY. 
"He's controversial, he did a very good job when he was involved in wrestling. He got elected, so he seems to be liked. And he's a name. It's going to be a product starved for names. They're not going to have them on the field." 
Ventura, a former Navy SEAL who used to wear feather boas into the ring during his pro wrestling career, doesn't shy t'rom publicity. nor does he pull punches. 
During his 1998 campaign for governor, Ventura said Minnesota should consider legalizing prostitution, possibly with a red light district similar to Amsterdam's. 
In an interview with Playboy magazine last year he called organized religion a "sham and a crutch for weak-minded peo­ple." 
Some Minnesota politicians questioned whether Ventura should have accepted the offer from the WWF and NBC. 
"He's clearly using the pres­tige and the name of' his office to enrich himself financially," state Sen. John Marty said. "And even if that's not illegal, I find it very troubling. 
"Where's his loyalty? The loyalty ought to be to the public -.the taxpayer_ -not people willing to enrich him based on how outrageous he can be." 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Yankees to return to TV network 
Associated Pras 
NEW YORK 
The Yankees will return to the Madison Square Garden Network next season. 
The MSG Network, exerc'is­ing a provision in its expired 12-year contract, agreed to match the Yankees' new $52 million. one-year contract with a division of the International Management Group, according to a baseball official with knowledge of the negotiations. 
At the same time, MSG sued the Yankees on Thursday, asking that a justice decide whether the network also should get a right to match any offer at the end of the 2001 season. 

The deal with lMG's Trans World International division was submitted Nov. 8 to MSG Network, which had seven business days to match it under the terms of MSG's expired $486 million contract with the Yankees. 
A key provision of the TWI deal is that it contains no right to match. which has hampered. the Yankees in their attempts to negotiate a multiyear contract. 
MSG, a division of Cablevision Systems Corp., has gone to court twice previ· ously to enforce the right to match. The Yankees and TWI agreed in July to a 10-year contract that would have cre­ated a network 95 percent· owned by the team. It would have guaranteed the Yankees about $900 million in the next 10 years. 
Justice Barry A. Cozier, who issued an injunction on July 31 that blocked the Yankees' first deal with !MG, will hear the latest lawsuit, the baseball official said. The Yankees and MSG have asked Cozier to hear the case on an expedited basis, and a hearing is likely to take place in January. tho official said. 
By going with a one-year deal with no right of refusal. the Yankees would gain the freedom to negotiate anew for their rights starting with the 2002 season. 
MSG has broadcast Yankees games since 1989. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Colorado State advances to bowl 
Associated Press 
FORT COLLINS, Colo. 
Justin GaHimore returned an interception for a touchdown, and twin brother Jason returned a fumble for another score as Colorado State beat Wyoming 37-13 Thursday night. 
With the victory, Colorado State clinched the Mountain West Conference title and· earned its second straight trip to the Liberty Bowl in Memphis, Tenn., on Dec. 29. 
As the seconds ticked down late in the game, the shivering crowd began chanting. "Sonny! Sonny!" and the Rams (9-2, 6-1) doused coach Sonny Lubick with ice water -a chilly celebration on a 14­degree night. 
Wyoming (1•10, 0-7), ham­pered all season by injuries and inexperience, lost 10 games in a season for the first time since the school started playing football in 1893. 

The galloping Gallimore brothers were part of a big night for the Colorado State defense. The Rams also scored on Rick Crowell's interception return as part of' a game-turn­ing second quarter. 
Cecil Sapp added a 41 ·yard scoring catch and ran for 64 yards and another touchdown for Colorado State, which rebounded from a disappoint­ing defeat at Air Force last Saturday. 
Wyoming, seeking to salvage something from its sorry sea­son, got a gutsy performance from quarterback Jay Stoner, who played his final college game on a sore ankle. 
Stoner was 9•for-18 and 
threw three interceptions before being replaced by freshman Casey Bramlet early in the second half. 
Bramlet led the Cowboys to their only touchdown. a 30· yard pass to Ryan McGuffey that pulled Wyoming to 27-13 in the third quarter. 
Colorado State put the game out of reach on a 20-yard field by C.W. Hurst and Sapp's 2­yard touchdown run with 
12:49 remaining. 
The Rams came out sluggish. failing to cover the game­opening kickoff and commit· ting two turnovers in the first half. 
The Cowboys managed only 
two  field  goals,  and  their  
inability  to  capitalize  on  
Colorado  State's  mistakes  

proved costly when Wyoming began making its own offen­sive gaffes. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Seeking creative, energetic provider  PHONE CARDS  High-Speed Copies, Color Copies,  Does anybody think that Clinton  
to care for 2 children in my Granger  $20 1558 MIN.  Binding, Fax Service, Resumes,  should be presidenl for lour more  
FOR RENT  WANTED  home. 20-25 hrs/wk. Call 277-1622  CALL 284-5145 or 258-4805  Business Cards, Laminating & More!  years? Think about all the funny stuff he could do wilhout Hillary  
1993 Ford Explorer (2 door)  At  around...  
r  HOUSE FOR LEASE 7/01 4/5 bedrm. 3 blocks to campus.  YOUTH DIRECTOR needed At First United Methodist Church in S. Bend. 8-12 hrs./wk.  LOST & FOUND  Manual 4-wheel drive 66,000 miles call: 784-8303 or 219-232-5557  THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY  hey Ann-sorry about the movie .. how about  
773-486-8822  $100/wk. Call 233-9463.  Free Pick-Up & Delivery!  Tommy Boy on saturday? or a more  
Ask for Dan or Jen.  Lost: Silver mustard seed necklace.  Beautiful brass bed, queen size,  legitimate movie?  
3,4 & 6 BDRM HOMES. FURN.  VERY IMPORTANT. If found, call  with orthopedic mattress set and  FAX IT FAST!!!  Like bounce?  
EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP·  Kate at 634-3697  deluxe frame. All new, never used,  Sending & Receiving  
NOW & 2001-02  272-6306.  MENTCENTER  still in plastic. $235 219--862-2082  At  Tommy Boy anyone?  
PAID & VOLUNTEER OPPORTU•  LOST: MAN'S WEDDING RING IN  THE COPY SHOP  
HOUSES FOR RENT  NITIES  SOUTH DINING HALL AREA ON  LaFortune Student Center  II moron's here...  
Earn money and t;,uild resume  MONDAY, NOV. 13  PLEASE  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  
2001-2002  experience while interacting with delightful young children. The Early  CLAL KEITH AT 1-6147. REWARDII  PERSONAL  FAX ITFASTl!I  You're the one with the thin can­died.. shut up Richard...  
10 BEDROOMS- Childhood Development Centers at  So it's been 8 days ...  
48ATHS  Saint Mary's College and the  LOST: GOLD HEART & C.Z.  NO PLANS FOR THE HOLIDAYS?  Who's your favorite Little Rascal? ls  
3KITCHENS  University of Notre Dame. are cur•  BRACELET AT ND-BC GAME,  NEW YEAR'S?  Who's the next leader of the free  it Alfalfa. or is it Spanky?  
5BEDROOMS  renlly accepting applications from  SECTION 32. GI FT TO MY WIFE,  world?  
2BATHS  college students for part time  HUGE SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF  Vacation in Chicago for $22/night.  Do you know where the weight  
GREAT FRONT PORCH  employment positions beginning  FOUND, PLESAE CONTACT ME  Stay at Hostelling Int'! -Chicago.  Still counting ..  room is? I'll check it out  
immediately and for next semester.  @ DUBE.l@ND.EDU  
BOTH HOUSES HAVE WASHERS,  The hours vary, including MWF  Call 3121360-0300. www.hichica- Sometimes camouflage just doesn't  You could put six packs of b.. .i  
DRYERS AND ALARM SYSTEMS  12:30 p.m. -1 ·30 p.m. and MWF  Lost: a men's brown jacket If  go.org.  work.  mean soda in there  
9:30 a.m. -11 :30 a.m. II you are  found, please call 246-1558. Thank  
CALL KRAMER  interested in applying, please con- You  VOTE FOR NOTRE DAME IN  A Poem...by Jeff  Hey Gilligan--Dld you eat the skip•  
tact Kari AUord, Program Director at  TOURNEY OF TRADITIONS!  per?  
234-2436  ECDC-SMC, at 284-4693 or Thayer  Goto  A horse walks into a bar  
OR CELL 274•1501.  Kramer, Program Director at  http://promotions. go.com/espn/tosti- And the bartender says  Herbie Hancock  
.,  ONLY 3 HOUSES LEFT,  ECDC-ND, tor more information and an application.  FOR SALE  tos/lrontpage.html and vote for ND in ESPN.com's  why the long face?  The following bands/acts should go  
Tourney of Traditions!  hahahahahahaaha  back on tour:  
4,5,6 bdrm, turn.• sec syst,  Retail positions available at UP Mall  #1 Spring Break 2001  Vote now for ND to ad11ance  That is the funniest joke  
w/d. PRIME locations Util included  20 seasonal sales associates need·  Cancun, Mazatlan, Acapulco,  through the top 16 to win No 1 for  Anyone has ever made up  1. U2  
ed  Jamaica, Florida & $.Padre.  the school with the best football tra­ 2. Ozzy  
233-9947  Full & Part time positions available  dition.  I think that there is one guy  3. Def Leppard  
Flexible hrs. for your convenience  Reliable TWA flights. Best Prices.  While you're thre, enter tor a  That sits in a building in  4. Sammy Haggar  
Newly remodeled 2 bdrm hOuse  Avg. $7-$18/hour  Earn$$$ or FREE trips-call for  chance to win a trip for up to 1O  Chicago and makes up  5. Cyndi Lauper  
on 19775 Detroit St. Close to  Outgoing personality, sales experi­ detailsl  people to the 2001 T ostitos Fiesta  Every joke in America  
.,,,.  Gilmer Park. $600+ deposit. Call 233-5285  ence a plus 340-3761  1 800.SURFS.UP www.studentexpress.com  Bowl in Tempe, Arizona. Go ND!  Do you know anyone who has ever made a good joke?  that's enough Ann-you read this don't you?  

Friday, November 17, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NBA 

McDyess drops in 16, grabs 11 boards in Nugget victory 
Associated Press 
DENVER The Denver Nuggets sur­vived a near-collapse. 
Antonio McDyess scored 16 points and grabbed 11 rebounds as the Nuggets squandered a 21-point lead but held on to beat the Chicago Bulls 89-85 Thursday night. 
"We came out and took it for granted that we were up by 17 poinLs," said McDyess, who grabbed the 3,000th rebound of his career in the gam~. "They came out and played hard in the third. We should ha.vc learned from their game against tlouston that they don't give up. 
"We just can't hold teams off right now. When we get to a point where we can hold teams off and play our game, we"ll be all right." 
Keou Clark matched McDyess with 16 points, eight rebounds and a key block. Clark had eight points in the fourth quarter as Denver won for the second time in three games. 
"This was really something. This team refuses to play 48 solid minutes," Denver coach Dan Issel said. "Antonio did a great job in the first quarter with 11 points in the first quarter, and then he had only the three-point play and another basket the rest of the way because he is sitting next to me." 
Elton Brand had 22 points and six rebounds, and Ron Mercer added 17 for the Bulls, who dropped their third straight game. 
"We came out with absolute-
WED, Nov. I5 

ly no intensity or heart," Brand said. "Coach was upset with us at halftime, especially with our rebounding and chal­lenged us to step it up." 
Chicago missed its first five shots of the fourth quarter, but trailed only 69-65 as the Nuggets scored just four points early in the period. 
A 3-pointer by Corey Benjamin got the Hulls within 69-68 with 9:14 remaining, and free throws by Mercer and Brand gave Chicago a 73­71 advantage with 6:15 left. 
Voshon Lenard buried a 3­pointer and McDyess hit a layup and free throw after running down his own miss as the Nuggets grabbed a 77-73 lead. Two baskets by Clark allowed the Nuggets to main­tain at least a three-point lead until the 2:31 mark. 
Mercer drained a running one-hander and Brand sank a pair of free throws as the Bulls closed to 84-82. 
The Bulls had a chance to tie with 30 seconds left, but Clark blocked A.J. Guyton 's layup, and Nick Van Exel hit two free throws to make it 86-82. 
Fred Hoiberg added a 3­pointer with 10 seconds left. Van Exel finished with 15 points and six assists. 
Chicago started ·out slowly, shooting 32 percent in the first quarter and 34 percent in the first half. The Bulls trailed by 17 at halftime. 
"They blindsided us in the first quarter," Chicago coach Tim Floyd said. 
"I didn't see it coming because our practices were so good yesterday and this morn­ing. Denver did a nice job of making shots and executing early." 
Panel of Survivors at 7:00 pm in the Montgomery Theater 

THURS, Nov. I6 Grol!J) Prayer at 7:30 pm at the Grotto . 
Fru, Nov. I7 Skit "When a Kiss is Not Just a Kiss" at 5:30 pm at the Library Auditorium 
SAT, Nov. 18 Princes of Babylon Concert at Alumni-Senior Club at ro pm $3 for ND/SMC students, $5 for non-student's tickets 

available at LaFortune information desk 
www.nd.edu/,.,jschuyle/c.gif 

Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row Szechuan -Hunan • Cantonese -American Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days Lunch Special$4.75 --Mon• Fri 11:30. 3:00 PM Dinner Starting at $6.45 Sunday -Thursday 11 :30 AM • 10:00 PM Friday· Saturday 11:30AM -11:00 PM 
Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday 
11 a.m. to 3 p.m. $8.95 for Adults $3.95 for Children under 1 O 
222 Dixie Way, South Bend (219) 272-7376 
cinema@thesnite 

directed by Damien O1Donnell 
Fri. & Sat. 7:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. 
coming soon: High S,:J,aal (1969) directed by Frederick Wiseman Monday November 201 7 p.m. 
presented by ND Film, Television, and Theatre www.nd.edu/~cothweb 
-
-
-

SEXUAL ASSAULT AWARENESS WEEK 
-----· 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 17, 2000 
NHL 

Last-second overtime goal pushes Devils past Bruins 
goals in their first 14 games -los­
Associa1~d Press 

ing just once -haven't scored in 
141:40 and are without a goal in
Scott Gomez scored with two 

seven periods.
seconds left in overtime, as the Ottawa (9-5-4-0) has scored inNew Jersey Dnvils snapped a six­just one of its last 11 periods andgame losing streak and beat the the Senators' last goal was talliedBoston Bruins 3-2 Thursday night. 

by Radek Bonk late in the secondGomez scornd his third goal of period of a 4-3 loss at Philadelphiathe season when he slid the puck on Nov. 11.
past sprawling Bruins goalie 

The Hurricanes, who lost 4-1 toByron Dafoe in front of the net. 
Florida at home Wednesday night, 
The goal came after a wild 

have won three of four.
scramble in front. Patrik Elias 

Irbe and Lalime each came updove on hLc; stomacli, away from 
big in the first period as both
the goal, and was able to swat the 

teams enjoyed solid scoring
puck to Brian Rafalc;l<l in the slot. 

chances.
Hafalski moved the puck to 

Lalime made a diving stick saveGomez, who scored from the right to rob Martin Gelinas. The for­side of the net. 
ward knocked Lalime down
Petr Sykora tied it 2-2 for the behind the Ottawa net while clear­

Devils, scoring a short-handed· 

ing the puck along the boards.
--
goal with 1 :58 remaining when he 
Lalime scrambled back to the
stole the puck at the Bruins blue crease and reached out with his

line, and blasted the puck past 

stick to deflect a shot by Gelinas, Dafoe. 
who found himself with a wide
Devils goalie Martin Brodeur open net when he was set up

had 36 saves for the Devils and 

alone in the slot by Rod
won for the first time since Oct. 

Brind'Amour.
30. 

Ottawa failed to convert a glori­New Jersey's seven-game win­
.ous short-handed opportunity
less streak was its longest since an 

15:00 into the period as Irbe
11-game slump nine years ago. 

caught a piece of Martin Havlat'sThe franchise record was set in 
shot after Radek Bonk sent the
1976 with a 0-21-6 stretch. 

Senators rookie in on a break­
Joe Thornton gave Boston a 2-1 away.

lead when he scored a power-play Handzus took a pass from Mike Blue Jackets 5, Predators 1 2-0.
Hurricanes forward Bates
goal with 3:02 left in the third. Eastwood and fanned on a shot, Geoff Sanderson and Kevin Sanderson. who once scored 46
Battaglia missed out less than a
after the Bruins were awarded a but Jan Hrdina slid the puck into Dineen scored in the first four goals in a season, has a six-game
minute later when his shot from
two-man advantage 17 seconds his own net. minutes and the Columbus Blue point streak (four goals, two
the edge ofthe crease beat Lalirne,
earlier. Kip Miller tied it 3-3 for Jackets tied an NHL expansion­assists).
but rang off both posts and stayed
Dafoe had 34 saves for the Pittsburgh at 5:20 of the third team record with their fourth Nashville's Vitali Yachmenev cut Bruins. He has not won since Oct. out. when he beat Blues goalie Roman straight victory by beating the it to 2-1 early in the second period, 7 against Philadelphia. Turek for his first goal this season. Nashville Predators. knocking a shot off the left post-The Devils jumped to an early 1-Blues 4, Penguins 3 Alexei Kovalev of Pittsburgh The mark is shared by eight and past Tugnutt as he was being 0 lead, when Turner Stevenson Pierre Turgeon had two goals scored a power-play goal in the teams, most recently the Florida hauled down. Kevyn Adams flipped in a rebound that was and an assist to lead the St. Louis second period to give the Panthers in 1994. Columbus will restored the Blue Jackets' two kicked out by Dafoe at 5:17 of the Blues to a victory over the Penguins a 1-0 lead. It was the play the Panthers at home Friday goal lead moments later. Vokoun first period. Pittsburgh Penguins. first short-handed goal the night with a chance to break the gave up a soil rebound of Dineen's Jason Allison tied it 1-1, when On a power play, Turgeon Blues allowed in 22 opportuni­record. shot in front and Adams scored he skated around Devils defense­deflected Pavo! Demitra's shot ties. Dineen had a goal and an assist, easily as Columbus took a 3-1 lead man Brian Rafalsl<l. and jammed past Penguins goalie Garth Snow Turgeon assisted on Dallas Ron Tugnutt -5-1-1 in his last at 3:27. the puck past Brodeur at 6:02 of at 9:48 of the third period. It was Drake's second goal of the sea­seven starts -made 29 saves and Knutsen stole the puck from the second. hLc; eighth goal and gave the Blues son at 1 :21 of the second period Jamie Heward set up two goals to Predators defcnseman Bill Allison leads the Bruins with 25 a 4-3 lead. Turgeon has 16 points which made it 1-1. lead the Blue Jackets. Houlder midway through the third points, and his 10 goals this sea­in his last 12 games. Turek finished with 17 saves Sanderson sixth goal, on a period and beat Vokoun to make it son match his entire output from St. Louis remained unbeaten in and Snow stopped 30 shots. deflection of a redirected shot. 4-1, as boos were heard at last season. eight home games, winning seven Rene Corbet put Pittsburgh gave Columbus a 1-0 lead. Gaylord Entertainment Center. Scott Niedermayer and Jason times. back in front 2-1 at 3:58 of the Frantisek Kucera's shot from the Tyler Wright put Columbus up 5-1 Arnott remain unsigned for the Turgeon's first goal also came second when he scored his left point appeared to go off Espcn with 5:14 left, batting the puck out Devils. and although their agent with the Blues on the power play fourth of the season. Martin Knutsen's stick before Sanderson ofthe air. Don Meehan met with Devils and tied it 2-2. He scored on a Straka had a highlight reel tipped it by Tomas Vokoun at The loss was Nashville's second General ManagP.r Lou Lamoriello rebound of Al Macinnis' slap shot assist when he kicked the puck 2:07. Only Kucera received credit in as many nights to a team that recently. little progress has been at 12:05 of the second period. to Corbet, who beat Turek with for the assist. has been in the NHL for a shorter made. Michal Handzus scored his third Pittsburgh on the power play. Just 1:45 later, Dineen pushed time than the third-year Despite being tied for the goal of the season at 17:32 of the Straka and Jaromir Jagr each the rebound of lleward's shot past Predators. Nashville fell 1-0 to Eastern Conference lead in goals, second to give St. Louis a 3-2 lead. had two assists for Pittsburgh. Vokoun and the Blue Jackets led Atlanta on Wednesday. the Devils have scored only 11 in 

six games. Boston is 0-2-2 in its last four gan1P,s against the Devils. 
The Devils went 0-3 on the power-play, despite having the top unit in hockey. 
Hurricanes 1, Senators 0 
Shane Willis scored a power­play goal midway through the third period and Arturs lrbe recorded his second straight shutout over Ottawa as the Carolina Hurricanes beat the 

-
Senators for just their second win in nine road games. 
Willis, who scored twice in a 4-0 home victory over Ottawa last Sunday, tired a shot from the point over goalie Patrick Lalime's shoul­der at 9:47 to give the Senators

--their fourth straight loss. With Andre Roy in the penalty box, Willis wristed a shot past La.lime for his seventh goal of the season, sending the I lurricanes to just their fifth road point in nine games. lrbe. who made 29 saves in the first shutout, turned aside all 27 Senators shots, including numer­ous scoring opportunities. He has 26 career shutouts. The Senators, who scored 54 
Now's the time ... to finish your degree at BETHEL COLLEGE 

• Attend accelerated classes 
• 
Advance your career 

• 
Realize your dreams 


• Focus on values 
Call Today! 
219-257-3350 or 800-422-4251 adultprograms@bethel~ln.edu 

.... --- 
Friday, November 17, 2000  The Observer . SPORTS  page 19  

TRACK AND FIELD CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS 
USATF accuses 'political' officials 
part of a pattern of "false and of them prior to the Sydney
Associated Press 
utterly baseless" accusations Games, with some tests report­that surfaced during the ed as many as eight times.
USA Track Field accused 
Sydney Olympics. These "We do_ not know why Or.
international officials of mak­
included allegations that Ljungqvist made this accusa­ing unfounded allegations 
USATF had failed to report 12-tion in obvious contradiction toabout its drug-testing practices 15 positive cases from 1990-the facts," the statement said. 
as part of a "political agenda" 2000 and had covered up posi­On Nov. 6, USATF chief exec­against the American body. 
tive tests of shot putter C.J. utive Craig Mashack sent IAAF
USATF issued a three-page 
Hunter, husband of sprint star president Lamine Diack sever­
statement Thursday in 
Marion Jones. al hundred pages of docu­response to recent "finger­
"Dr. Ljungqvist and Mr. ments detailing the current
pointing" by Arne Ljungqvist, Pound, through their remarks slatus of doping matters from
the anti-doping chief of the 
in Oslo, are at best simply try-1999-2000.
International Amateur Athletic i n g Regarding Pound's question­
Federation. and another ing of cases where the 'B' sam­
Dick Pound, head 
"Why on earth would we stab in ple fails to confirm the 'A'
of the World Anti­
want to discredit USATF t h e finding, USATF said,
Doping Agency. 
dark , "Laboratories do make mis­
At a WADA meet­and their leadership?" 
and at takes."
ing Tuesday in 
worst Of the 22 positives in 1999­
Oslo, Norway, 
Arne Ljungqvist are pur­2000, three cases were dis­
Ljungqvist reiterat­
ed his charge that IAAF anti-doping chief suing a missed because the 'B' sample political did not support the 'A,'
USATF is withhold-agenda according to USATF. Another
ing details of 10 
against USATF," the statement case was thrown out because apositive cases. including two ln said. "USATF encourages Mr. 'B' sample was destroyed bywhich athletes were exonerat­Pound and Dr. Ljungqvist to the lab before it could beed after testing positive for the cease their finger pointing." opened.
steroid nandrolone. 
Ljungqvist denied any "If Mr. Pound is critical ofPound described as "non­
vendetta. the lab work. he needs to criti­sense" USATF's insistence that "Why on earth would we cize his own organization, theit is bound by confidentiality 
want to discredit USATF and International Olympic
rules preventing the disclosure 
their leadership?" he said. "On Committee, which certifiesof names of athletes who test 
the contrary, it's our most these labs and has oversight of
positive until they are proven 
important member. Because them,'' the statement said.
guilty. 
they are, they have to set a "USATF has no involvement
Pound also questioned 
good example." whatsoever with lab results orUSATF's contention that. on a Pound could not be reached lab work.'' 
number of occasions. backup 
Thursday. USATF denied that"B" samples do not support the USATF said it has a history Ljungqvist has ever written topositive findings of the "A" of "frequently and completely the federation pressing forsample. 
reporting to the IAAF." Citing information on 10 cases,USATF said the comments by 22 positives from 1999-2000, adding, "There are quite sim­
Pound and Ljungqvist were 
USATF said it reported on 20 ply no 'unreported' cases 
TRAVELING ABROAD???? IS YOUR MEDICAL INSURANCE GOING WITH YOU??? GET TRAVEL MEDICAL INSURANCE U.S. and NON-U.S. CITIZENS 
APPLY ON-LINE !!! INTERNATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE 
WWW.EZTRIPINSURANCE.COM 
about which to inquire." 
Ljungqvist, who lives in Sweden, said the written requests were not sent directly by him but on his request by Gabriel Dolle, the doping con­trol administrator at IAAF headquarters in Monaco. 
"Whether it's in my name or Dolle's name is totally irrele­vant," he said. "It's a bad excuse." 
USATF maintained that IAAF rules do not require disclosure of the names of athletes who test positive. The rule states that a governing body must report "any positive results obtained in the course of dop­ing controls." 
Hingis advances into semifinals 
third set.
Associated Press 
"She just picked up her 

game and started reading
NEW YORK my game better. She served

Surviving a mid-match very well," Hingis said inlapse. top-seeded Martina 

explaining the second set. "IHingis moved easily into the 
started pushing the ball
semifinals of the Chase instead of taking my

Champ-

chances."
ionships 


That wasn't the case in
o n 

the third set.
Thursday Hingis attacked, even
night with from a defensive mode. She

a 6-1, 6-7 

went for winners instead of(2). 6-2 just keeping the ball in ply. 
victory 
On one point, pinned
o v e r 

behind the baseline on a
Nathalie 

ball that hit right in the
Tauziat. Hingis 

corner. Hingis ripped aRanked 
forehand down the line forNo. 1 in the world, Hingis is 
a winner, choosing to go
seeking her first major title over the high part of the net

since the 1999 Australian instead of taking the usual

Open and her first victory 

crosscourt shot. Tauziat,
here since winning this sea­

expecting the usual, wasson-ending tournament in 
standing at the middle of the1998. 
net waiting when the ballOn Saturday, Hingis will whizzed by her for a win­
face the winner of Thursday night's second match ner. 
Tauziat, who reached abetween fourth-seeded 

career-high ranking of No. 3
Conchita Martinez and 

in May,
Hingis' doubles partner. No. never wavered or 
changed her game, continu­7 Anna Kournikova. 
The second semifinal pair­ally attacking. taking the net -­at every chance. But Hingis, 
ing will be determined 

who sometimes calls Tauziat
Friday night when No. 3 

"professor" because of her
Monica Seles plays Amanda 

age and knowledge of theCoetzer, followed by sur­
game. followed Tauziat into
prising Elena Dementieva 

the net for putaway volleys.
against Kim Clijsters. 
"I had to change my gameDementieva upset defend­a little bit to play well with

ing champion Lindsay 

the power players, and that ­
Davenport in a first-round 

just quickens up the game amatch Wednesday night. 
lot," Hingis said of her for­Hingis, 20. zipped through ays into the net. "And you
the opening set before the 

don't give the other players33-year-old Tauziat. one of 
too much rhythm from the
the oldest players on the 

baseline.
WTA Tour, picked up her 
"You just have to makegame and took a 5-3 lead in them think a little bit more,

the second set. Hingis 

so they don't know what to
fought back to knot the 

exp_ect from me .... That's
score and send it to a 

what she was doing better
tiebreak, where Tauziat 

than me today, in a way, but
quickly won the first five then I started pushing her a

points. 

little bit more."
After the French player 
The tournament is ending
won the tiebreaker to level a 28-year run in the United

the match at a set apiece, States and will move nextHingis rolled out to a 5-0 

year to Munich. Germany.
advantage in the decisive 

Here's Good News For You! 
Turtle Creek APartments 
~s low_ Takjna Appltcaiions For The 100 I •1001 School-Year! 
-

S1op .BJ The Leasina Office· Today.10 Pick UpYourlnforma11onal Packecl 
-

Turtle Creek Apartments "Tke Students, First Choice Io Off Campas Housing" --1710 Turtle treek lriwe 
Phone:-272-8124 M-F 9am -6pm Sat 10am -5pm · 
"Lovated jut east of the Notre Dame soccer field" 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 17, 20000 
PROFESSIONAL GOLF 

Kane's 67 earns her share of tourney lead 
Associated l're,;s 
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. 
The way her fortunes have changed with one victory, Lorie Kane isn't ready for the LPGA Tour season to end quite yet. 
Once the most popular brides­maid in women's golf, Kane took a step toward yet another victory on Thursday with a 5-under 67 that gave her a share of the lead with Meg Mallon in the season­ending Arch Wireless Championship. 
Kane, a runner-up nine times before finally getting untracked with three victories, bounced back with birdins aftnr her only two

--
bogeys and closed out a solid round on the Legends Course at IH.~ International with an 8-iron shot to 4 feet. 
'Tm looking forward to saying I'm a four-time winner," the Canadian said. "Now, it's a game of con!idence." 
It wa.-; a strange game Thursday for Karrie Webb and Juli Inkster. 
Webb, who needs a victory to become the first player in LPGA history to crack the $2 million

..... 
barrier, struggled with her short game and had a 40 after nine holes. She wound up with a 75, going 2 under over the final four holes to avoid her worst round of the year. 
Inkster is four days away from her induction into the LPGA Hall of Fame, and this isn't how she wanted her week of celebration to begin. She got spooked by missing a couple of short putts early and wound up with a 78. 
"It can happen out here," Mallon said of the new Legends Course, with tight fairways that wind through a corridor of pine trees and wetlands, with wind swirling about 
Mallon made it happen with her wedge. Despite hitting only 11 greens, she twice holed long chip shots for birdie on her way to a 67. 
"I didn't make any bad mis­takes," said Mallon, who added her third career major and already has gone over $1 million for the first time in her career. 
Sweden's Annika Sorenstam had a bogey-free 68 and was one off the lead, tied with Leta Undley and the recharged Dottie Pepper. 
"I can't wait for January to get here," said Pepper, who is finally free of back and wrist injuries that have plagued her throughout the season. "This week is a finali­ty for a lot of people, but I'm just getting going again. I'm going to play hard." 
Nineteen of the 30 players had par or better on a course being used in tournament play for the first time. 

-
The Arch Championship was supposed to be in Las Vegas until the Desert Inn began to lose its staff and the LPGA decided to move the event to its headquar­ters. Instead of the wide-open Champions Course, which held the Titleholders for five years, it went across the road to the more treacherous Legends Course. 
It was a nightmare for Webb, the most dominant player in women's golf who was a picture of frustration throughout most of' a breezy, warm afternoon. Trying to cap off her sensational season in style, she was well off the mark with several short irons and looked uncomfortable around the greens. 
Mallon played in the group ahead of Webb, and noticed the 25-year-old Australian bombing her drives some 25 yards past Sorenstam on the final two holes. 
"The thing with Karrie is ... when she gets mad, she plays so good," Mallon said. "Tomorrow, I don't expect anything less than a 66 or a 65 from here." 
Kane expects nothing less than a victory. 
For nearly four years on the LPGA Tour, she carried a huge burden of playing well enough to win but watching someone else cash the first-place check. That finally changed when she was inspired by comments about win­ning from former New York Rangers star Mark Messier. 
"It's all about attitude," she said. For the Canadians, it's all about hockey. 
Just last week, Mike Weir got fired up watching Canada win the Deutchland Cup against Slovakia in overtime, and took that fighting spirit onto the course at Valderrama to win the World Golf Championships event. 
Kane had more than confidence on her side. Having bought a Florida home nearby in Titusville, she often comes to LPGA head­quarters for practice and is well­acqu ain ted with the Legends Course. 
Keeping her patience through­out the day, she burst into the lead with four straight birdies, including a chip from about 20 feet on the par-3 15th. 
Smith leads Walker Classic 
Associated Press 
BANGKOK, Thailand 
Wayne Smith made eight 
birdies and shot a 7-under­
par 65 Thursday to take the 
lead after the first round of 
the Johnnie Walker Classic. 
Tiger Woods opened with a 
68 and was tied for fourth 
place with five others. 
Smith was one stroke 
ahead of fellow Australian 
Paul Gow, while Scotland's 
Paul Lawrie, the 1999 British 
Open champion, was third 
with a 67 on the 6,989-yard 
Alpine Golf and Sports Club 
course. 
Spain's Sergio Garcia strug­gled to a 74 that included a quadruple-bogey 8. 
During his 16-year profes­sional career, Smith, 39, has won twice on both the Australasian and Japanese Tours, but he hasn't had many rounds better than this one. 
Smith made three straight birdies heading into the turn, then had another five on the back nine. 
He missed the fairway on No. 7, chipped it back, hit a six-iron to the left fringe and chipped in from five yards. That, he claimed, was his most difficult hole. 
"My goal was to hit a lot of pars at the start of the round and take the stress away from needing to get up and down from the rough," Smith said. 
But he did bogey the par-4, 412-yard 11th, when he hit past the green and missed the par putt from 15 feet. 
Woods, who won this event in 1998, made six birdies and two bogies, both of which came on the front side. He powered through the back nine in 3-under 33 with birdies on Nos. 12, 14 and 17. 
"It could have been a little lower. I went out there to try and hit fairways and greens and I gave myself a couple of good chances there that I missed," said Woods, who three-putted the 555-yard, par-5 fifth after reaching the green in two. 
APhiladelphonic Band that has opened for G-Love &the Special Sauce, Macy Gray, and Wyclelf Jean. POD combines Roots, 


KAT Photo Tiger Woods takes a shot Thursday at the Johnnie Walker Classic. Woods opened with a 68, good for fourth place. 
"It was a solid start, score wise, but I didn't really feel like I was playing that great." 
Woods, the world's No. 1 golfer, was met earlier this week by protesters demand­ing that Nike improve work­ing conditions for its 70,000 workers in Thailand. Woods recently signed a $100 mil­lion endorsement deal with Nike Inc. 
Woods, whose mother is Thai, is a national hero in Thailand. 
Gow, who finished with a 6­under 66, got off to a slow start. He bogied the secorid hole, but birdied the fourth and fifth. 
"On the back nine I played really well with four straight birdies from the 11th hole," he said. 
Reggae, R&B, Jazz, Blues, and Funk all In the context of con­temporary hip-hop beats.

rinces ol Babylon AIIIDnl-Senlor Club 83 nd/smc students $5 non-students November 18 
10:00 pm All Ages 
i 
I;.11 
ii 
Gow holed putts from six, two and eight feet and had a two-putt birdie at the par-5. 
Gow, who has qualified for the 2001 PGA Tour, said "the best player in the world is in the field and I will see this week if I can compete against him. There is no pressure on me. I always play as hard as I can and make as many birdies as possible." 
Laurie, who teed off from the 10th, had four birdies on his first nine holes and an eagle on the par-5 17th. He made two bogeys and a birdie on the back side. 
Garcia was 2-under after five holes, but then he went in the water twice. He had a double bogey on the seventh, and wound up with an 8 on the par-4 11th. 

-
The easy, hassle free way to fly. 
Fty to Orlando/Sanford • Portsmouth, New Hampshire • 
St. Louis/Belleville, IL • 
Philadelphia/Allentown, PA 
..•.-~ .. . ­
'II " .,,-u,,J. ,...,..a:,,, "k . •...·. ' 
~,,~•~;.4r~~~ 
-. FREE Parking • Easy access to all highways • Convenient • Secure 
For Pan Am: 1-800-FLY•PANAM 
www.flypanam.com 
For More Information 
www.garychicagoairport.com 
i 1 

"We'll be bringing It on runky, IPHkY, lld run DI LOVE." •Uncle Cl'III, Pll'CIIIIOD Sponsored bY CARE and@ 
Friday, November 17, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
NBA 

Bryant hits two key shots for Lakers in 112-110 victory 
Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. 
Kobe Bryant hit a game-tying 3-pointer with 2.3 secondi; left in regulation, then made the go­ahead jumper with 24 seconds left in overtime as the Los Angeles Lakers beat the Sacramento Kings 112-110 Thursday night. 
Bryant, who had eight points in overtime, finished with 31 points and several staredowns of the heckling fans behind the Lakers' bench, while Shaquille O'Neal had 33 points and 16 rebounds. 
The world champions went from the brink of an unlikely upset to their third straight win thanks to the poise of their two superstars. 
O'Neal also blocked Peja Stojakovic's layup attempt with six seconds left in overtime as the Lakers avoided losing to a fired-up Kings team playing without Chris Webber and Jason Williams. 
Doug Christie scored 19 of his season-high 32 points after halftime, and Stojakovic had 29 points and 17 rebounds. Sacramento had its five-game winning streak snapped and lost at home for the first time this season. 
The Kings began the game without Webber, their leading scorer and rebounder, who missed his second game with a sprained left ankle. Then, just 39 seconds into the second half, the Kings lost Williams to a sprained right ankle. 
Sacramento jmnped ahead of the Lakers with an impressive burst of offense in the second half and led 91-78 with nine minutes to play. But the Lakers battled back with O'Neal and Bryant leading the way, and they pulled within one in the final minute. 
Stojakovic blew past Robert Horry for a layup to put Sacramento up by three, but after Brian Shaw missed with six seconds left, he passed out to Bryant, who drilled a long 3­pointer from straightaway. 
The game was the first meet­ing between the teams since their contentious first-round playoff series last spring. 

Sacramento lost twice at Staples Center, but won two elimination games at Arco Arena before los­ing the deciding fifth game in Los Angeles. 
The hard feelings from the series haven't subsided, as shown by the "Beat L.A.!"chants throughout the stadium and the staredown between Williams and O'Neal after a collision in the first half. After Bryant hit his game-tying 3-pointer in reg­ulation, he spent several sec­onds staring down a heckler. 
The Kings completely aban­doned an inside game with Webber out and O'Neal patrolling the middle. Instead, Christie and Stojakovic led an outside barrage of offense, while Vlade Divac and Scot Pollard tried to keep the ball out of O'Neal's hands on defense. 
Trail Blazers 86, Raptors 80 
Rasheed Wallace scored 25 points as the Portland Trail Blazers snapped the Toronto Raptors' four-game winning streak. 
Portland's Steve Smith scored 15 points and Dale Davis added 14 rebounds, spoiling Vince Carter's season-high 37-point performance. Damon Stoudamire finished with 14 points and six assists against his former team. 
Antonio Davis had 12 boards for the Raptors but was O-for-11 from the floor and finished with a point as Toronto shot 35 per­cent from the field. Corliss Williamson scored 11 points and was_the only other Raptor to score in double-digits. 
Wallace hit three consecutive jumpers in the final two min­utes to clinch the victory. 
Carter tied the game 79-79 on a tough layup through a pile of Blazers with 2:49 remaining. But Wallace answered with a turnaround jumper, and then a pair of long outside shots within in a 1:30 span and gave Portland an 85-80 lead with 
41.2 seconds to go. 
Rookie Morris Peterson, who helped key a Raptors comeback, missed a field goal attempt on the Raptors' next possession, ending Toronto's comeback attempt. 
The Raptors, rallied in the_ second half and kept it close on a pair of 3-pointers by Carter. Bonzi Wells gave the Blazers a 68-61 lead early in the fourth on a pair of outside jumpers. 
Stoudamire found Smith open at the top of the arc for a 3­pointer to make it 75-69 with 
5:33 to go. Thirty seconds later, Smith converted a missed shot by Wallace as Portland opened an eight-point lead. 
Toronto matched up well against the Trail Blazers early, but Shawn Kemp and Wallace used their height advantage to begin an 8-0 run with to end the half with a 44-35 lead. 
Kemp, who had seven rebounds in eight minutes, bruised his right knee midway through the game and did not return. 
Rockets 89, Hornets 86 
Cuttino Mobley made a crucial steal and hit two free throws in the final minute as the Houston Rockets beat the Charlotte Hornets. 
Free-agent signee Maurice Taylor led Houston (1-1) with 16 points, followed by Mobley with 14, Steve Francis with 13 and Kenny Thomas with 11. 
Reserve Tim James led Charlotte (1-1) with 16 points, David Wesley had 15, Otis Thorpe 14 and Jamal Mashburn 12. 
Houston led 75-65 with 9:01 left before Thorpe scored 11 straight points for Charlotte to cut the lead to 80-76 with 5:06 remaining. 
James' basket with 1:19 left pulled the Hornets to 84-83. 
But on Charlotte's next pos­session, Mobley stole a pass and sank both free throws with 44 seconds remaining to give Houston a three-point advan­tage. 
A pair of free throws by Moochie Norris and one by Kelvin Cato countered a 3­pointer by the Hornets' Eddie Robinson in the closing seconds to secure the victory. 
Spurs 99, Wizards 95 
Derek Anderson is the perfect compleQient to San Antonio big men David Robinson and Tim Duncan. 
Anderson scored seven of his 19 points in the fourth quarter as the Spurs rallied to beat Washington. 
Anderson keyed San Antonio's 11-2 run late in the fourth quarter as the Spurs kept the Wizards winless at home. 
"He's better than what I expected because I didn't know he could pass the basketball," Spurs coach Greg Popovich said. 
"We knew he could slash, make shots and break down defenses, But I didn't know he was so willing to hit the open man and he really did that well." 
Robinson led the Spurs with 21 points and 14 rebounds, and Duncan had 19 points and 10 rebounds. Antonio Daniels added 14 points in 23 minutes as San Antonio won its third straight. 
Anderson is aware his offen­sive contribution is crucial to the Spurs' success. 
"They (Robinson and Duncan) get doubled so much, you have to be able to hit those shots to keep pressure on the defense,6 Anderson said. "I used to go 1­on-1 and put pressure on peo­ple, but here I'm just filling in a role and that helps them out. 
"When they get doubled, they feel confident that when they throw it out, they are going to get a result." 
Rod Strickland led Washington with 24 points, nine assists and four rebounds. Reserve guard Richard Hamilton had 19 points in 38 minutes for the Wizards, who lost their fifth straight game. 
"We got beat by a team that played a little bit better at the end of the game," Washington coach Leonard Hamilton said. "Both the teams got the same shot opportunities, but the dif­ference in the game was theirs fell, and ours didn't." 
Mitch Richmond's 3-pointer gave the Wizards an 87-82 lead with 5:51 left in the game. 
Sean Elliott hit two free throws for a 90-89 lead with 
3:05 remaining, giving the Spurs their first lead since early in the fourth quarter. Anderson's 3-pointer with two minutes left sealed the win. 
The Wizards took a 45-36 
Castle Point 
Select Units 
Available for 
Next Semester 
•~Within Minutes of Campus•:• 

-Renovated, spacious one and two 
bedroom apartments,  some  with lofts.  
-Includes membership in the  new  
Castle Point Racquet Club  
and Fitness Center.  

lead with 7:43 remaining in the  
second quarter on Gerard  
King's jumper. Daniels scored  
12 points in the period to keep  
the Spurs close.  
Duncan scored six points and  
assisted Robinson for an alley­ 
slam during San Antonio's 10-0  
run that gave the Spurs a 55-51  
lead with 1 :40 left in the first  
half. The Wizards countered  
with a 6-0 run for a 57-55 lead  
at halftime.  
The Wizards erased a seven­ 
point deficit and led 31-27 after  
one quarter. only the second  
time this season they've won  
the opening period. For the sec­ 
ond consecutive game, the  
Wizards had their highest point  
total of the season in the first  
half.  
"We've been in every game, I  
think that we have just got to  
keep going," Richard Hamilton  
said. "We can't get frustrated  
with ourselves, especially with  
our teammates. It is going to  
come around_"  
Clippers 76, Grizzlies 72  
Lamar Odom scored 21  
points, including the go-ahead  
basket with 1:28 remaining, to  
lead the Los Angeles Clippers  
past the Vancouver Grizzlies.  
The Clippers won for the sec­ 
ond time in as many nights. Los  
Angeles beat the New York  
Knicks on Wednesday night.  
Los Angeles, which trailed 72­ 
67 with 3:06 remaining, erased  
its deficit by scoring the final  
nine points of the game. Michael Olowokandi scored  ,.,.  
14 points for the Clippers and  
reserve Derek Strong chipped in  
with 13 points and eight  
rebounds.  
Michael Dickerson scored 16  
points for the Grizzlies, who lost  
their third straight game.  
Shareef Abdur-Rahim finished  
with 15 points.  
The Clippers matched their  
biggest lead of the game when  
guard Eric Piatkowski hit a 3­ 
pointer and made it 58-48 late  
in the third quarter. But  
Dickerson and Mike Bibby  
spurred an 11-1 run and the  
teams started the fourth quar­ 
ter tied at 59.  
Derek Strong and Olowokandi  
scored six points apiece in a 13­ 
0 Los Angeles run in the second  
quarter that gave the Clippers a  
42-32 lead with 3:41 left in the  
halL The Clippers led 47-38 at  
the intermission on 51 percent  
shooting. Lamar Odom's 13  
points and Olowokandi's 12 led  
the Clippers.  
Vancouver was led by Othella  
Harrington, who had 14 first­ 
half points.  
The Grizzlies used a 9-0 run  
in the final 2:02 of the first  
quarter to take a 22-19 lead.  
But Odom took it the length of  
the court with five seconds left in the quarter and hit a 3-point­ - 
er at the buzzer to tie the game  
at 22. Odom led all scorers after  
one with 10 points on 4-for-4  
shooting, including two 3-point­ 
ers.  
- 

Call 259•1~00 for !170re det~ 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 17, 2000 
I 
I 
I 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

I Kent adjusting to new MVP status 
.... 
Associated Press 

t 
NEW YORK 
Jeff Kent planned to cele­brate his National League Most Valuable Player Award in the same understated way 
t h a t helped him win it. 
K e n t hopped on the tractor 
to  mow  
the  lawn  
at  his  



T c x a s Kent ranch, went out for a barbecue dinner and ,. hoped to go hunting over the weekend. ''It hasn't sunk in yet," Kent said Thursday after beating out San Francisco teammate Barry Bonds to win the award. "I don't have trophies up in the house. I don't keep pic­tures of myself. I don't brag about my accomplishments. This is something that is a fan­tasy." Kent, the first second base­man to win the award since '--the Cubs Ryne Sandberg in 1984, received 22 first-place votes, five seconds, four thirds and one fourth for 392 points in balloting by the Baseball Writers' Association of America. Bonds. a three-time MVP winner, got six first-place "'-votes and 279 points to give 
tlrn NL West-champion Giants the first 1-2 finish for a team in the NL MVP since Bonds and Bobby Bonilla did it for Pittsburgh in 1990. 
"There is no doubt I wouldn't be doing the things I'm doing without him." Kent said. "The way he gets on base gives me opportunities to drive in runs. You can't really ask for a better guy to hit in front of you than Barry. I comple­ment him as well. I've earned the respect of opponents that they now pitch to Barry." 
Kent hit .334 with 33 homers and 125 RBIs, solidify­ing himself as one of 
the best "I don't keep pictures 
never try to offensive ofmyself I don ·t brag compare second myself with
about my accomplish-
basemen. anybody."
ments."
His 475 Bonds hit RBIs the .306 with 49 last four homers and
Jeff Kent 
seasons 106 RBIs.
Giants second baseman
b r o k e Rogers 
llornsby's 75-year-old record for most at the position over such a span. 
Chiefly because of the sec­ond baseman's RBI total and knack for clutch hits, manager Dusty Baker said Kent would have gotten his MVP vote, not Bonds, perhaps swaying vot­ers. Bonds also had praise for his teammate. 
"He's been doing this ever since he got here," Bonds said in September. "The numbers he puts up for a second base­man are amazing. They're great for any player, but to do it at second base is really something." 
The only other MVP second basemen are Joe Morgan of Cincinnati (1975-76), Nellie Fox of the White Sox (1959), Jackie Robinson of the Dodgers (1949), Joe Gordon of the Yankees (1942), Charlie Gehringer of Detroit (1937) and Frankie Frisch of the Cardinals (1931). 
"This puts me more in a cat­egory along side of guys like that," Kent said. "It is truly an honor to be mentioned in the same breath as those guys. I 
Bonds also 
scored 129 

runs and walk'ed 117 times as he almost became the first four-time MVP in baseball history. He won the awards in 1990 and 1992 in Pittsburgh and in 1993 for San Francisco. 
Mets catcher Mike Piazza was the only other player named on all 32 ballots, finish­ing with three first-place votes and 271 points. He hit .324 with 38 homers and 113 RBIs, but wore down in September, when he hit .222. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Duke-North Carolina, other showdowns highlight weekend 
A.ssuciated Press 

In the days before the annual Duke-North Carolina game, 
Tar Heels coach Carl Torbush makes sure an ungainly 200­
pound brass bell. complete with a hand crank to ensure it is 
heard, gets hauled from the locker room to the practice field. 
"I hammer that Victory Bell every day," Torbush said, refer­
ring to the coveted prize that goes to the winning team. "I want 
my players to hear what that thing sounds like because unless 
we're ringing it, it's not going to sound very good." 
Torbush may be on the coaching hotseat these days, but he knows what kind of impact a little ol' win over your biggest rival can have. Torbush was on the verge of bein,g fired in 1999, but a season-ending 38-0 win over Duke N the Tar Heels' 10th in a row over the Blue Devils helped him keep his job. _ 
On Saturday, North Carolina (5-5} plays Duke (0-10) for the 86th time in one of many classic rivalries on the final big weekend of the sea.son. Carolina needs a victory not only to keep the coveted Victory 13ell in Chapel Hill, but also to become bowl eligible. 
Bowl bids, conference crowns and national championships are usually secondary, though, when_ such rivalries as The Game (Yale at Harvard), the Big Game (Stanford at Cal) and the Civil War (Oregon at Oregon State) are contested. Also at stake is the Iron Bowl (Auburn at Alabama), the Old Oaken Bucket (Indiana at Purdue), the Apple Cup (Washington at Washington State) and yet another Victory Bell, which goes to the USC-UCLA winner. 
Let us not forget Michigan at Ohio State. which may produce the most pomp and pageantry of any rivalry, or the 136th renewal of Lehigh-Lafayette, also known as the Most Played Rivalry. 
Some games. such as No. 4 Florida at No. 3 Florida State, will have a direct bearing on the national title. but first there are braggin' rights on the line. With rivalry games, ranking and records mean nothing, passion and pride everything. 
-
-
... 
'. 

Free ND Foam #1 Fingers 
To All Students Who 
Come Support OUR #l 
Women , s Soccer Team 
Against Harvard 
Friday Night at 7 • 00
• 

Alumni Field 
It's Round 3 ofthe NCAA Tournament. Come Watch the Irish Destroy Harvard (formerly known as the Notre Dame of the East)!!! I 
_ II 


Friday, November 17, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 23 

Volleyball 
continued from page 28 
Kreher led the Irish with 14 kills, 15 digs and five blocks while Boylan added 43 assists, 11 digs and three blocks. 
Pittsburgh finished its regular season at 22-9 and went 8-3 in the Big East. 
The Irish lead the series against the Panthers at 14-3. Notre Dame earned the 2000 win on Oct. 8 (15-9. 10-15, 16­
14. 16-14). Girton led the match 
The 2001 Japan Exchange and Teaching Program 
Teach English in junior and senior high schools in Japan Learn about Japanese culture and people Gain international experience 
Requirements 

• 
Have an excellent command of the English language 

• 
Obtain abachelor's degree by June 30, 2001 ..I 

•
Be aU.S. citizen _ 


• 
Be willing to relocate to Japan for one year 


Applications are now available. The deadline for applving is Dece_mber. 6, 2000. . 
For more information and an application contact the Consulate General of Japan mChicago at Olympia Center, Suite 1000, 737 North Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill 60611. Call (312) 280-0428 or 1-800-INFO-JET. The application can also be found at www.embjapan.org.
==========;;..::.;=..::...;::....=...c...::____________________ 
THIS WEEKEND'S EVENTS... 
¦ 

fridaq &saturdaq ffiOVleS 101 and lSS DeBartolp -$2 -8and 10:30pm 
screen one: scarqsffi~n~~:east is east loft stiow: PRINCES OF BABYLON 
saturdaq -10pm -alumni-senior club -all ages welcome 
S3 nd/smc students -ss non students 
with a career-high 30 kills while Kreher added 22 kills, 10 digs and eight blocks. 
Bomhack racked up 19 kills and 19 digs to aid the Irish. Boylan totaled 86 assists for a new school record while adding 10 digs. 
Notre Dame is coming off a four-game win (15-13, 13-15, 15-5, 15-3) against Syracuse last weekend. Girton led the match with 20 kills, eight blocks and five digs while Kreher added 18 kills and nine digs. Bomhack racked up 14 kills and 12 digs to aid the Irish. 
Throu!!hout the season. the Irish have had three players named as conference players of the week. Bomhack, the most recent, was named Big East player of the week for the week of Nov. 6 following her stellar performance in Notre Dame's wins against Boston College, North Carolina and Providence. 
Boylan won the honors during the week of Sept. 4. while Girton was a double-winner on Sept. 25 and Oct. 2. 
The Irish are set to play Connecticut in round one action at 1 p.m. on Saturday, while Rutgers will face Pittsburgh at 
3:30 n_m_ 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 

Irish take 6-1 record into Indiana meet 
. 18th ranked Notre Dame looks to win Invitational 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame women's swimming and diving team, ranked 18th in the country, has continued its dual-meet dominance early this sea­son. The Irish are 6-1 in 2000-01 and the loss to Purdue on Nov. 4, was the first for the team since the 1998-99 season. Head coach Bailey Weathers and his team hopes the momen­tum created during the early dual meet season will result in a strong showing at the Indiana University Invitational this weekend. 
The team began the sea­son with a strong start in the Oct. 9, Notre Dame Relays, where the Irish won 12 of 13 events to finish ahead of Illinois State, Valparaiso, Butler, St, Mary's and Marquette. The meet was highlighted by the record-breaking perfor­mance of Brooke Davey, Allison Lloyd, Tiffany O'Brien and Danielle Hulick in the 500 c_rescendo relay. Irish swimmers now hold Notre Dame Relay meet records in 12 of 13 events and will hold the 400-yard freestlye relay record, which eluded the team this year, as a top priority next season. 
Using the momentum from the Notre Dame Relays, the Irish were able 
·to produce an impressive victory over the 17th­ranked Miami (Fla.) Hurricanes. The Irish start­ed strong with a victory in the first event, as Kelly Recking, Lloyd, Sarah and Hulick combined for a vic­tory in the 400 medley relay. 
Notre Dame swimmers 
dominated the meet, win­
ning 12 of 14 events, and 
four swimmers proved to be 
double-winners for the 
Irish. Hecking placed first 
in both the 100 and the 200 
backstroke events and 
senior Kristen Van Saun 
also came out as the winner 
in the 200 and 500 
freestlye. Hulick produced 
a standout performance 
with wins in the 50 (24.68) 
and 100 (53.02) freestyle 
events. 
Freshman Marie Labosky 
had a big meet as well, cap­turing the 1,000 freestyle and the 200 IM, while Lloyd contributed an individual victory in the 100 breast­stroke. Lisa Garcia was able to produce a win in the 200 butterfly and Amy Deger picked up a victory in the 100 butterfly. 

The Irish continued their winning ways in a Nov. 3. quad meet with Kenyon College, Pittsburgh, and Miami (Ohio). Notre Dame was able to win 11 of 16 Avents to earn three more dual-meet victories. 
Five Notre Dame competi­tors won two individual events in the quad meet. The underclassmen showed their strength as Labos):<y won both the 1,650 freestyle and the 400 IM, and Deger took the 100 and 200 butterfly. 
Not to be outdone, the veteran swimmers also did well with Becking sweeping both the 100 and 200 back­stroke events in 57 .00 and 2 :03. 94, respectively. Junior Heather Mattingly captured the one-and three-meter diving events and Van Saun beat the field in the 200 and 500 freestyle events. 
The Irish strength and depth was showcased in the quad meet as Hecking, Garcia, Jessica Roberts and O'Brien swept the top four spots in the 100 back­stroke. 
Hulick also made her presence known as she chipped in with a victory in the 100 backstroke. 
The Irish moved to West Lafayette, Ind., the next day after the quad meet for their second consecutive day of competition, as the team recorded a victory over Evansville before falling to Purdue 138-161. The loss marked the first for the team since the 1998-99 season. 
Mattingly was once again a double-winner for the Irish at the Purdue meet, taking both the one-and three-meter diving events. Labosky flashed her endurance in winning the 1,000 freestyle (10:41.16) and the 200 IM (2:06.46) while earning her third and fourth individual victories of the weekend. 
Van Saun also was able to capture a win in the 500 freestyle (5:03.68). as was Becking in the 200 back­stroke and Lloyd in the 200 breaststroke (2:03.77). 
""' 


Friday, November 17, 2000 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS 
BASEBALL 

Notre Dame signs Molina to star-studded recruit class 
after starting the ball
"I'm looking forward
at third base through­his first two to playing at Notre out the 
seasons. Dame and will do field, 
Irish head Molina
whatever they need
coach Paul enters Mainieri feels me to do " N o t r e that Molina, Dame with who actuallv his coach's
Jay Molina
has pitched confi­
Baseball recruit
and played dence. shortstop more "He will in high school be a force than he has played behind offensively as he can reallv 
...... 
the plate. has the tools to be swing the bat," said an outstandiRg defensive Mainieri. backstop. Molina could contribute on 
"We think he has all the the mound as well. He has a tools to be a great catcher fastball that has reached and that's where we will the mid-80s and is also need him most," said known for a solid breaking Mainieri. "lie has arm ball. strength, good quickness Molina decided to attend behind the plate, good Notre Dame after visiting hands, and he's a tough the campus in early kid." September. The spirit of 
Toughness runs in the campus during a football Molina family. tlis older weekend sold the 18-year brother Anthony. who was old on the Irish. an infielder and catcher at ""My visit to Notre Dame the University of Evansville. was during the weekend of has recovered from being the Nebraska football game intentionally hit in the face and it was pretty over­by a warm-up pitch from whelming," said Molina. "I Wichita State hurler Ben knew it was the place I Christiansen in Ap~_il of wanted to go to school." 
-------=--------==;r 


IDior Class Mal 
Sunday, November 
19th 
9:00pm 

-
~ti, J~N JJ~i""fl, 
_PNj~ 
Please bring acan offood as adonation to the Center for the Homeless 

Jay Molina makes a play at shortstop for Moline High School. Molina signed with the Irish 
Tuesday and will play catcher as well as pitch in 2001. 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
STUDENT SEASON TICKET HOLDERS, PICK UP YOUR 

T-SHIRTS DURING LUNCH FRIDAY IN THE DINING HALLS 
:** You must have your coupon and ID with you to receive your shirt*** 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Assistanf Sports Editor 
Adding an element of ver­satility to an already talent­nd squad, the Irish baseball team has signed cu.tcher/right-handcd pitch­er Jay Molina as a member of the Class of 2005. Molina is one of seven players announced Tuesday in per­haps the greatest recruiting class in the history of Notre Dame basebalI. 
With current starting catcher Paul O'Toole. who is a junior coming off of a strong performance in the Cape Cod League this sum­mer, possibly leaving after the 2001 season to enter tho professional draft, the Irish faced the possibility of entering the spring of 2002 with only Andy Bushey to play behind the plate. Bushey is a junior who is being convert­ed to catcher 

1999. 
Anthony Molina was left with a shattered face and blurred vision. He will never play baseball again. 
The story gained national attention, and a civil trial against Christiansen -who has since been drafted in the first round by the Chicago Cubs -begins Nov. 28. 
The same toughness that helped Molina get through his brother's troubh)s has helped Molina become a more c ompe1itive baseball player. 
''I'm looking forward to playing at Notre Dame and will do whatever they need me to uo," said Molina. 'Tm a hard-nosed player who likes to win and doesn't back down. I'll do anything it takes to win." 
Molina excels at the plate as well as behind it. Known for being a quick line-drive hitter who spreads 
Friday, November 17, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 

WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Belle·s squad to b.egin assault on record books 
Associated l'ress 
Who said records.aren't made to be broken? 
After frrshman Megan Ramsey began to make her mark in her colle­giate debut season by shattering the 17-year old 100-yard butterfly record last weekend. the rest of the Saint Mary's swimming and diving team is looking to follow suit as they continue on their 2000-2001 cam­paign. 
The team will put the record board to another test this weekend. as the team voyages to Indianapolis Saturday for the Wabash College Invitational at the IUPUI Natatoriwn, the site of the 2000 Olympic I.rials. The invitational. one of the largest meets the team will attend all season, is another opportunity for some of the talented underclassmen to make a pn~mature imprint on the rer-0rd board. 
Solid pertormances are again oxpccted from Ramsey, along \-\lith class­mates Bitsy Doro and Maureen Palchak, whose swims are expected to challenge the sprint freestyle records by the end of the season. Veterans Lauren Smith in the breastroke, Olivia Smith in the distance freestyle, and Colleen Sullivan in the middle di.c;tance freestyle will also be looked to for critical performances. 
The weekend is mainly an opportunity to capitalize on already fa.st early season swims, said co-captain Olivia Smith. 
"We've done excellent so far-we've dropped so much time as a team since the Notre Dame relays," Smith said. "We're just looking to swim well and looking to keep up the times we've been doing all season." 
Be our guest for rhe premiere teaching lecture ofthe year. A time to share your questions and aspirations with teachers from all walks oflife. 
"Teaching Values: The Dignity of Our Profession " 
Dr. Paul A. Rathbum University of Notre Dame, Professor Emeritus, English 
Those who strive for "excellence in teaching" endeavor to graduate students who are morally, ethically, and spiritually whole. This involves teaching values built upon respect for the gifts of our students; respect for the material we are teaching; and respect for the teaching process itself. Next to my family, teaching at Notre Dame has been the greatest adventure and deepest experience ofmy life. Nearing the end ofmy career, it is an honor and humbling experience to speak to professionals gathered to share their experience and inspire one another in the pursuit of "Excellence in Teaching." 
Friday, November 17, 2000 
7:00 p.m. 

McKenna Hall/Center for Continuing Education, Auditorium Preceding the keynote speech William M. McLean '75, St. Laurence High School, Burbank, Illinois will receive the Alumni Association's "Excellence in Teaching" Award Reception immediately following the lecture 

Sponsored by: Notre Dame Alumni Association Alumni Continuing Education 
CONTNIJING EDUCATION 

Soccer 
continued from page 28 
ly see their fate hinge on the play of their goalkeeper, sopho­more Cheryl Gunther. Harvard's ability to stay close and give itself a chance will lie in Gunther's ability to make the occasional big save. 
As the Irish know, controlling a game does not necessarily guarantee victory. In last year's NCAA semifinal, the Santa Clara Broncos dominated the Irish for almost the entire con­test; only the score didn't reflect the one-sided nature of the game. An opportunistic Irish team took advantage of its only real opportunity as Ally Lovelace scored late in the sec­ond half to give the Irish a 1-0 win. 
Controlling the ball against a Notre Dame team that boasts so many weapons is too much to ask of any team, let alone one that has gone the entire season unranked. 
"Notre Dame is certainly the best team we've seen all year," said Michigan head coach Debbie Rademacher, whose team had its season ended at the hands of the Irish. "They have so many weapons in terms of who they can bring in." 
Harvard will hope not to stop Notre Dame, but to contain it. Led by senior captain and Big East player of the year candi­date Anne Makinen, the Irish boast an attack that is among the nation's best. Complimenting Makinen is senior Meotis Erikson, who has a knack for scoring the big goal, and Lovelace. 
The Irish also have added a potent mix of freshmen that have contributed more than anyone could have imagined. Amanda Guertin has consis­tently been among the team's top scorers, while classmate Amy Warner, her effectiveness limited by a knee injury, is still perhaps the squad's most dan­gerous scorer. 
· The Irish hope to put the Crimson away early 
"We're going to try to get as many as we can early,",Lindsey said. "Hopefully then we can sit back and get a bit more defen­sive." 
In the first half against Michigan. Notre Dame was sloppy and not the least bit focused. 
"We just weren't focused, and that's my fault," Waldrum said. 
-

"W~ know we need to play bet­ter. 

Go Irish 
Beat Harvard 
7pm 
Alumni Field 
Free Foam Fingers 
-



page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 17, 2000 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

No. 16 Notre Daine to open season against Sacred Heart 

PRE-HOLIDAY SALE OP.EN HOUSE 
25~ -40~ <>CC 
No Additional Discounts 
Sun.day, November 19, 2000 
-5:00 PlVl

By BRIAN KESSLER 
Sports Writer 

With the bad taste of last year's NCAA Tournament snub and a loss in the NIT championship game still left in its mouth, the No. 16 Notre Dame men's basketball team opens the regular season Saturday with its most talented, most experienced and most respected squad in over a decade. 
The Irish take on the Sacred Heart 
Pioneers Saturday at 8:30 p.m. in their 
500th game at the Joyce Center. 

"We're excited to get the season under­way," junior forward David Graves said. 
"We've been practicing together since June, so we're anxious to get going and play some games that actually count." 
Notre Dame went 2-0 in the preseason with wins over the California Midwest All­Stars and the International Select All-Stars. The Irish showcased their explosive offen­sive attack, averaging 94 points, but it is clear that defense will ultimattily determine just how good this Notre Dame team is. 
"We know we can put points on the board," Graves said. "We can come at teams in a lot of different ways, but we also need to be able to stop people. We need to work on our defense teamwork and our communica­tion is key. That's what makes the difference between mediocre and good teams." 
The Irish opened up a 16-0 lead in the first preseason game and never looked back. But in its second exhibition contest, Notre Dame was challenged by the 
International All-Stars until a 17-4 run late in the second half enabled the Irish to pull away for the 89-71 victory. 
"They were two totally different games," Graves said. "In the first one, everything went our way, but in the second one, we didn't shoot well, but we put enough points on the board to win. I think it's good to have a game like that because we are going to have some tough games this season where things don't go our way. We have to learn to win different ways, so it was good prepara­tion." 
The Irish expect big things out of junior All-American Troy Murphy, who ranked among the top 10 nationally in points and rebounds last season, as well as Oklahoma transfer Ryan Humphrey, who showcased his talents in the two preseason games. Senior Martin lngelsby will run the point and look to dish it off to sharpshooters Graves and sophomore guard Matt Carroll. 
Notre Dame will also look to its deep bench with key reserves I Iarold Swanagan, Ivan Kartelo and freshman Torrian Jones all looking to get quality minutes. 
Sacred Heart opens its second season of Division I play after posting a dismal 3-25 record last year. To add insult to injury, the Pioneers lost seven players to graduation. They are led by senior guard Kurt Reis and forward Marijus Kovaliukas. 
"We are going to go over them [today]." Graves said. "I don't know much about them, but they are like any small Division I team. They are undersized, but have good skills and can be dangerous, so we need to be prepared to play." 
Notre Dame head coach Mike Brey will be looking for his 100th win as a head coach, after posting a 99-52 record at Delaware. 
More importantly. he will be seeking his first win as head coach of the Fighting Irish. 
Following the season opener with Sacred Heart, Notre Dame will host Loyola (Chicago), before traveling to Indianapolis for a showdown with perennial power Cincinnati. 
"There isn't much time before we have a tough battle with Cincinnati," Graves said. "We have two important games, so we need to get off on the right track with that game a week away." 

Junior guard Charles Thomas brings the ball up for the lrlsh. Notre Dame enters the season ranked 16th in the country. 
..,.. 
' 

hiday, November 17, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
TOM KEELEY

FOURTH AND INCHES 

BILL AMEND

Fox TROT 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Bill, in Bordeaux 
1 It may have 34 Offbeat, plus gone through 
35 Case worker's the mill 

org.? 7 1966 Simon & 
36 Sign of trouble Garfunkel hit 38 Geol., e.g. 

15 Unlikely to 39 User of "little sermonize gray cells" 16 Didn't leave 41 Granting grp. 
17 Flap raisers? 42 Solidifies
18 Desiring callers, perhaps 43 Vivarin alternative
19 Out 44 Hollywood
20 Point of attack? 
up-and-comer21 Like some 46 Place

nerves 50 Letters on some
22 Partner's pay, lotions
perhaps 53 Longs
26 Them's fighting words 54 One pulling some strings
27 Purposeful and efficient 55 Charger 31 Dear, to Dante 58 Fought 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

59 "Under a Glass Bell" writer 60 Candy brand 61 Liking 62 They're taken while waiting 
DOWN 1 Old men 2 Rousseau novel 
subtitled "On Education" 3 Bust 4 Free 5 It's vital to life 
6 Initials of Jim Hawkins's creator 
7 Australia, e.g. 8Now 9 Tropical flavor 
10 With 31-Down, bosun's reply 11 Object in court 12 Kitchen drawer? 
patient may be in 14 Experienced 20 Let go 23 Sponge gently 24 Thom shoes 25 Canal locale 28 In direct confrontation 29 It brings a tear to the eye 
Spann 31 See 10-Down 
15 17  2  3  4  5  6  8  9  10  11  12  13  14  


19  
22  
35  
39  
43  


32 Bug tail? 34 They may be 
allayed 36 Doofus 37 Wealth 40 Mythical creature 42 Carne by 44 Greets and seats 45 Steno's work 
48 When some things change 49 Shift, e.g. 50 Give and take 51 Window shopper's buy 
HOROSCOPE 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2000 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON IBIS DAY: Danny DeVito, Martin Scors­ese, Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, RuPaul, Daisy Fuentes 
Happy Birthday: If you don't want to have to backtrack, make sure you do things right the first time around. You will have plenty of charisma, which will help you attract the interest of people in a position to help you. However, if you aren't well-prepared, you may not be able .to convince anyone important to support your ideas. Your numbers: 8, 13, 22, 28, 36, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Trav­el and social activity will be your best bets. Disruptions in your home are likely if you sit around the house doing nothing. Your partner may suggest that you're being lazy. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take care of the needs of older family members. You may find it difficult to handle all your responsibilities. Try to convince your mate or close relatives to help smooth out the difficulties. 
00 

GEMINI {May 21-June 20): You may be a little shy today. Accom­plishments will be yours if you are willing to say what you really think. Be careful while in transit. A friend 
52 Middle of an old 
may cause you to worry. 000

children's trio CANCER (June 21-July 22):
56 Popular fruit 

Small-business ventures can be 
drink 

lucrative. Believe in yourself and stay away from people who don't
57 Kyrgyz region or 

want to work as hard as you do.
its capital 

Domestic services will make you 
extra cash. 0000 LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You are a bit down lately. Consider making 
58 B.O. posting 

some ~esthat will lift your spir­are available by touch-tone phone: 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
its and enhance your appearance, such as a new hairstyle. 000
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
EUGENIA LAST  
.,..  
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Some­ 
one who may be holding a grudge is  
just waiting to make you look bad.  
Be careful not to get involved in gos­ 
sip or leave yourself open to ridicule.  
Keep your dealings totally above  
board.00  
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Involvement in groups will lead to  
romantic interludes. Be careful that  
you find out enough information  
about the individual before revealing your own personal secrets. 0000 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):  
Don't say you love someone if you're  
not-sure you do. One-sided relation­ships are apparent and will result in upset if you aren't completely honest  
from day one. 00 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec.  
21): You can put everything you've  
got into the project you are working  
on; however, be sure to arrange for  
time off when you're done. Your dedi­ 
cation will enhance your reputation.  
0000  
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You'll experience losses if you aren'I cautious when dealing with finances.  
Someone you care about may be a  
burden. Help if you can, but not al  
the risk of getting run-down or sick. 000  
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): There appear to be limitations on  - 
your relationship. You must be ex­ 
tremely honest in dealing with your  
mate. The way you handle an exist­ 
ing situation now will lead to success  
later.000  
PISCES  (Feb. 19-March 20):  
Small details will make a big differ­ 
ence when it comes to your work. Praise will be yours. Don't let friends  
lead you in the wrong direction. Fol­ 
low your instincts. 0000  

47 Nora's portrayer in "The Thin  Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50  Birthday Baby: You have a big heart and good intentions. You will ~ve on adventure and will not back down, no matter how strong the competition  
Man"  years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  or the opposition. You are intense, courageous and dramatic. · (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com,  
· eugenialast.com, astromate.com.)  
© 2000 Univeisal Press Syndicate  

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

VOLLEYBALL•· @ Semifinals Sat. EAST CHAMPIONSHIP 
CONf=EAENCE 
#21 ND vs. UConn 1:00 pm Finals Sun. 2:00 pm (1J WOMEN? SOCCER OCRR Championship Fn. #1 ND vs. Harvard 7:00 pm Third Round * First 100 students admitted FREE! 
#lSMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Sat. 8:30 pm 
vs. 

Sacred Heart 



Now they count 
No. 1 5 Notre Dame takes 
on Sacred Heart 
in the Irish 's first non-exhibition game. 
page 26

PORTS 
A!_HE 

page 28 vnSERVER Thursday, November 16, 2000 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Irish to battle unfruniliar Criillson in NCAAs 
By KEVIN BERCHOU 
Sports Writer 
When Harvard's Crimson touch down in South Bend today to battle with the top ranked Fighting Irish of Notre Dame in third round NCM tournament action introductions will certain­ly be in order. 
Both teams are unfamiliar wilh their opponent, as the lrish and the Crimson will match up for the first timo tonight at 7 
p.m. on Alumni Pield. 
While Irish head coach Handy Waldrum will enter the game at a disadvantage because the teams have never met on the lield. he's prepared for a tough battle. With the Crimson cur­rently 12-7 on the year and rolling on a three game win streak after defeating Quinnipiac and Hartford, the Crimson are ready for war. 
"We're going to have to play a better game to beat Harvard," he said. 
"We have to respect them" Lindsey said. "They beat a very good Hartford team and they'll be coming after us." 
After receiving one of just 24 at-large berths into the NCM field, the Crimson appear to be peaking just in time. Led by sophomore forward Joey Yenne, Harvard is capable of scoring in bunches. Yenne alone put the ball in the goal 11 times during the regular the season, and will no doubt command consider­able attention from the Irish defense. 
The Crimson, making their fifth consecutive NCAA tourna­ment appearance, will ultimate-
see SOCCER / page 25 


-
VOLLEYBALL 

Irish seek Big East title at Joyce Center 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
Spores Wriccr 
Notre Dame volleyball looks to earn its fifth Big East title this weekend as it plays in the con­ference tournament held at the Joyce Center. 
The No. 20 Irish (23-5) have gone undefeated at 11-0 in reg­ular season league play to earn the top seed for this weekend's tournament. Notre Dame will face No. 4 Connecticut on Saturday at 1 p.m. and with a win will advance to Sunday's match against the winner of No. 2 Hutgers and No. 3 Pittsburgh. 
Since 1995 Notre Dame has

-
earned a .909 winning percent­tle better. So, we're just trying age in the Big East tournament, to sharpen some things before with 10 wins and just one loss to the championships. I think it earn four titles. will be good. I think we'll be 
"For each ready for it," match that head coach
"For each match that 
we play, we Debbie Brown 
we play, we have to do
have to do said. 
different different things." Connecticut is things. 18-11 on the Against season with a 7 ­
Debbie Brown
some of the 4 record in the teams, we head volleyball coach Big East. The have to Irish hold a 6-1 block and lead in the all­defend time series with against the middle a little bit the Huskies. Notre Dame was better. For some of the other able to edge Connecticut in a teams, we need to block and five-game battle (15-11. 11-15, defend against the outside a lit-15-5, 13-15. 16-14) in their last meeting on Oct. 29. Senior Christi Girton racked up 31 kills to post her career-high while junior Marcie Bomhack added 19 kills and 13 digs. 
Junior Kristy Kreher totaled 21 kills and nine digs in the match, while senior Denise Boylan had 69 assists to aid the Irish. Sophomore Janie Alderete posted a career-high 18 digs to help Notre Dame defense. 
Rutgers, 22-6 overall and 9-2 in the conference, has yet to win a match against the Irish. Notre Dame swept the Scarlet Knights in three games (15-6, 15-10, 15-13) on Oct. 20. 
see VOLLEYBALL/ page 23 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish take on Valpo 
•
1n opener 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Assisram Spores Editor 
In a match-up pitting two of the most prominent exits off of Interstate 80, the Notre Dame women's basketball team opens the 2000 regular season at 7:30 p.m. at Valparaiso. 
While the Irish are one of the 
top-ranked teams nationally, 
the Crusaders are in more of a 
rebuilding mode after losing six 
members of last season's team 
to graduation. 
Notre Dame is coming off of wins in both of their preseason games, the last coming Tuesday night against Tapiolan Honka, a team from Finland. First-team All-American center Ruth Riley played sparingly in each of the games, but impressed against Finland by not committing a single foul. 
Fifth-year guard Niele Ivey has shown athleticism and ver­satility in each of the games, narrowly missing a triple-dou­ble Tuesday. Ivey also has totaled 17 rebounds in the two games, an impressive feat for a 5-foot-7 shooting guard. 
"The way we're playing defense right now, she's under [the basket] a lot." said Irish head coach Muffet McGraw. "She's working harder I think to get them. She's got great hands. she's really strong, I'm really proud." 
The Crusaders return a strong core group of post play­ers. 6-foot-1 forward Carie Wickham is the lone senior on the team and provides leader­ship to the young group of players. Also returning to the Valparaiso frontcourt are juniors Amber Scho_ber and Marlous Nieuwveen. 
Nieuwveen -a 6-foot-5 native of Leiderdorp in the Netherlands -led all scorers in Notre Dame's 88-63 win Dec. 29. 1999. 
Despite the lopsided score. McGraw felt that the Irish could have played better against the Crusaders in that meeting. 
"We didn't play that well against them last year," said McGraw. "They came here and it was a very good game." · "They're good fundamentally sound, good shooters," said McGraw. "We feel that we need to play with a little more inten­sity at least than we have been." 

' vs. Harvard Tonight, 7 p.m. 
t 
SPORTS

I 
' I ATA 
" at Valparaiso 
7:35 p.m.
~ GLANCE 
{I 
at Rutgers 
Saturday, 1 :30 p.m. Piscataway, NJ 
• 
Women's Swimming at Indiana Invitational Saturday and Sunday • vs. Sacred Heare Saturday, 8:30 p.m. 

s,. at Wellesley College Tip-Off Invite Saturday and Sunday 
._ 


Friday, November 17, 2000 

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 

Oe,/Jfl-f;,.,;lf!Tk!Jt:k!f1'zza/ 
Voted "BEST DELIVERED PIZZA" 
-2000 Best of Michiana 
r------, r ------,
GAME DAY SPECIAL I 1 Large, 1 Topping I I I Large, I Topping I 
Papa Predicts:
I $8.99 OR I I 8reaclsllcks I I 2 Large, 2 Topping I I 2 Ufer I $13.00 _J $12.99
L L ______.J
------NOTRE DAME -45 
Manoglilt's Sp11clal FamYy Spacial
r ------, r ------, 
RUTGERS -14
I I Larr,&, 2 Topping ona 4 I I I La1g11 w/Works I I Cans of I I I Lars,11. 2 Topping I Coca-Cola Clanlc I I $'1.99 (II
I 

$10.99 Edra Large $20.9' I 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's

L------.J L------.J 

r------, r------, 271-1177 271-7272 
I tote Night Sp11clal I I Grand Papa I 

I Ppm• I om I I I Extra La1ge. I Monday-Thursday 11 am -1 am~­I Lorgo Or,~ Topping I I 2 Toppings I Friday-Saturday 11 am -3 am $1.'9 L $10.99 _J · Sunday Noon -1 am
L------.J -----­
•The most popular # on campus" 

game hype 

"We're not looking back at what we've done, and we're not patting ourselves on 
Ron Israel 

the hack ... 
strong safety 
"I expect Rutgers to play t,heir bestfiJot­hall game ofthe year. but I expect us lo play our best football 


Bob Davie
game <iflhe 

,. Irish head coach 
year. 


"We haoe to play each game like its a /JC'·, game. " 
Tony Weaver defensive end 
"Whal matters is us staying focused on what we have to do." 


Irish aim to overcome distractions 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
With Irish offensive coordina­
tor Kevin R"gers interviewing 
fur the hflad coaching position 
with the Scarlet Knights follow­
ing Saturday's game -ac; well 
as a number of key players 
µlaying in front of friends and 
family, lhe biggest challenge 
facing the Irish as they head to 
New Jersey is avoiding all of 
the distractions. 
Hogers, who has helped lead 
the Irish to a 7-2 record with three different quarterbacks this season, was contacted on Monday by the Rutgers admin­. istratiou. Whilt1 he hopes that he is one of a small list of f'.an­d id ates in Piscataway. the offensive coordinator remains focused on tho remainder of 
the 2000 Notrn Dame season. 
"My focus legitimately is on 
our football team and what 
we're trying to do," Rogers 
said. "That's just speculation at 
this point in time." 
The key player making a 
return home to New Jersey is 
freshman quarterback Matt 
Lovecchio. 
"lie played in a big high 
school program," Irish head 
couch Bob Davie said of 
Lovecchio, "Ilis family has 
been to every game here. You 
know, he is going to handle 
thLs. If anything, I am going to 
tell him to enjoy this." 
Linebacker Anthony 
Brannan, strong safety Ron 
Israel and defensive end Hyan 
Hoberts all played high school 
football in the Garden State. 
Starting defensive tackle 
Anthony Weaver hails from 
Saratoga Springs, N. Y. 
'Tm excited. Ilopefully I can get more tickets and have some more people come out," said Weaver. 
On the gridiron, the Irish look at containing a potent passing attack by the Scarlet Knights. ln last Saturday's 31­24 overtime loss to West Virginia, quarterback Mike McMahon led Rutgers to 17 unanswered points in the fourth quarter to tie the game. 
For the first score of the 

overtime period, McMahon found Aaron Lewis open in the end zone to put the Knights up 24-17. West Virginia then scored two unanswered touch­downs to tie, and then win the game. 
"They just came back in the second half and really made plays," Davie said. 'They're a team that has a good quart1~r­back. They have big tall receivers. They sproad the field on you, there's a lot of no­back." 
The Irish defense -which has f'altcrod during the fourth quarter in each ol' the last four games -will nond to prevent a repeat performance by ~ Scarlet Knights team playing its final home game of the sea­son. Davie knows that Hutgers is not lacking in confidence. 
"They finishnd the game with a tremendous amount of confi­dence," Davie said. "I know they're coming into this game probably as confident as they've been all year." 


Friday, November 17, 2000 The Observer . COVER STORY page 3 
Striking close to home 
• Youngest Israel continues family football ties as he leads Irish into home state Jersey 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
The light is always blinking on strong safety Ron Israel's phomi in his O'Neill Hall dorm room when he returns from Notre Dame football games. 
Ron's older brothers, St1we, a defensive back with the New Orlrans Saints, and Tim, a for­mer football player at Temple University, call each week to give lheir younger sibling some con­structive criticism. They give him a thumbs-up when he makes a big play -and an earful when he misses one. 
"They praise me when l do well. and get on me when I'm doing something wrong," Ron said. "While they're watching the game. they call me. rm actually playing in the game, but they call and leave a message on my voice mail as if I was in the room to tell me what I just did wrong, or if I did something good, they're on the phone praising me." 
Hon regularly turns to his foot­ball-playing brothers for tips on his game. They talk weekly, with Ron on the receiving end of the coaching lessons. 
According to Steve, Ron's a quick study. 
"He's like a computer with an endless amount of megahertz," Steve said. "His memory bank is infinite. He's a very intelligent player." 
With football so strong a tradi­tion in Ron's family, there's a lot he can learn from his older broth­ers. Steve, 31, is in his ninth NFL season after graduating from the University of Pittsburgh. He's cur­rently on injured reserve, but has started through much of his pro­fessional career. Tim, six years older tha,!1 Ron, is now a police officer in their hometown of Lawnside, N.J. 
Despite the family tradition, playing football was something Ron chose for himself. 
Even as a 7-year-old kid, he had a love for football. At the time, Ron shared a room with Steve, a senior in high school being recruited to play college football. The two would lie awake at night talking, and Steve wanted to be sure Ron didn't feel pres­sured to follow the same path as hi'i brothers. 
"I would tell him, 'You don't have to play football just because myself and Tim play football,"' Steve said. 
"I know." the 7-year-old Ron answered. "l just like to play foot­ball for me." 
But Ron still loved football. Ile convinced his mom to buy him a junior-sized uniform so he could go out and play like his brothers. 
"Ile (Hon I used to get fully 
dressed in his 
uniform 
and 
g 0 


Israel 
position: strong safety year: senior awards: USA Today honorable mention 11ll­America pick in high school, all-state selection in New Jersey notables: picked up interceptions against West Virginia and Boston College, moved into regular spot on starting lineup this season 
out and play by himself," Tim said. "He would have a whole game by himself, falling down, getting tackled, all in his person­al-sized shoulder pads and pants." 
Attending Steve's and Tim's games heightened Ron's interest in the sport. 
"Any younger brother kind of wants to do what the older broth­ers do," Ron said. "Steve's influ­ence on us was probably the biggest in that Tim and I both tried to follow in his footsteps in football and get an athletic schol­arship. 
"Both of them, I used to go to their high school games, and 
· when it was time for me to be in high school, I was going to their college football games. Then Steve got drafted, and I was going to college and NFL games." 
The trio of gridiron junkies even converted their father James into a football fan. 
"Really I was a baseball fan and basketball fan before they got into football," James said. "I forgot about baseball and basketball. I'm a football freak now." 

side of the ball he went on, he would produce." 
Israel's high school efforts grabbed the attention of Division I programs across the nation, from Ohio State and Notre Dame to Miami (Fla.) and Florida. 
Besides the lure of a top-notch education and national television exposure, Notre Dame had the added bonus of a coaching con­nection to Mailahn. Earle Mosley, an assistant under Lou Holtz, and the coach responsible for recruit­ing in the New Jersey area, had coached Mailahn in college and coached with Mailahn at Temple. 
It was the academics that made the difference in the end. 
"You can play bigtime football at Ohio State or Florida, but I wanted to get a bigtime degree," Israel said. "Out of all the schools I could have chosen to go to, Notre Dame was the most highly­ranked institution academically." 
In 1997, Israel enrolled at Notre Dame, but beneath a new head coach, Bob Davie. The hardest part of coming to college was the wait for playing time, as Israel did not play at all during his first sea­son, leaving him eligible for an added year. 
In '98, he played just one minute, eight seconds. Last year. Israel saw substantial action for the first time, and this season, he moved into the starting lineup at strong safety. 
Lile on the field wasn't. as per­foct as Israel had hoped, however. Late in Notre Dame's 27-21 loss at Michigan State, he missed a key tackle on fourth-and-10. 
"I should have made that play," Israel said. "Anytime people· are counting on you to perform at a certain level and to make a play that you should make, that's something that's just hard to swallow. It's even hard swallow­ing now, but it's reality, and it's in the past. We have to just put it behind us and move on, because all we have is the future. We don't have the past anymore." 

The past few weeks, despite a nagging groin injury, things have been looking up for Israel. He recorded an interception in the fourth quarter against West Virginia, and another interception late in Notre Dame's victory over Boston College to sew up the win. 
"Ron Israel is a guy who loves to play football," Davie said. "He's fought through a bunch of injuries when most guys wouldn't have played at all. He's just a good football player that's gotten bet­ter, and the biggest thing I see is that he has passion for the game." 
As the season winds down, Israel and his teammates are focused on getting to a Bowl Championship Series bowl. The next potential roadblock comes this Saturday when Israel gets to show off for a partial crowd. 
So many friends and family members requested tickets for Notre Dame's contest against Rutgers that Israel had to make a list to keep track. He only hopes his hard work will pay ofT with an eighth victory for the Irish. 
If Ron follows his brother Steve's latest weekly critique, he ,wl have done hi,; part.. 
"Take it one play at a time," Steve said, "and things will work out." 
'Whichever side of
Having older year. brothers as athlet­the ball he went on, "When I came to ic role models he would produce . ., this school, the pro­
allowed Ron to set gram was pretty his sights close to much down in the home. \'Vhile other Al Mailahn dumps," Mailahn kids worshiped Haddon Heights coach said. "Israel really 
Michael Jordan or Jerry Rice, Ron idolized his older siblings -not only Steve and Tim, but also old­est brother James and older sister Lisa, who guided him off the foot­ball field. A'i the youngest of five children, one thing Ron missed out on was serving as a good example to younger siblings. Now that he has seven nieces and nephews, he's found an outlet for his paternal instincts. One of his strongest goals is to be a good example for them. 
"Some people say, ·who are you playing for'?"' Israel said. "I play for the University, I play for my family and I play for myself, but also another way oflooking at it is I play for my nephews. I want to be a good role model for them." 
With two· older brothers who wrre hometown heroes in foot­ball, it took a little bit extra for 
Israel to become recognized for his own talents. In 1993, Al Mailahn's first year as head coach at Haddon Heights High School, Ron was a freshman. Mailahn saw Israel's gift for football, and put hlm into the starting lineup on both offense and defense. He worked so hard that Mailahn named him a captain as a sopho­more. The team won just one game that year, but Israel had helped lay the foun­dation for a win­ning team the next 
put his mind to get­

ting it into ~inning ways. I always refer back to those kids, their work ethics and their determination to be winners." 
Haddon Heights reversed its fortunes with Israel on the team, finishing with a winning record from 1994-96 for the first time in 26 seasons. Israel played a crucial part in the turn-around, complet­ing his career with 16 intercep­tions and 254 tackles on defense, along with 145 catches for 2,565 yards. He earned all-conference honors 1.hree years in a row, along with all-state mention and USA Today honorable mention NI-America selection his senior season. 
''We loved him on offense because he probably had the best set of hands on the team. He could catch anything we threw at him," Mailahn said. "Whichever 


birthdate: Jan. 5, I 979 favorite movie: Coming to plans after football career: hometown: Lawnside, N.J. America to own his own business major:fi/m, television and after college he hopes to: play best thing about playing for theatre I computer applica­professional football Notre Dame: being in the 
up close & 
personal 
tions goals for season: to win national spotlight dimensions: 6-feet, 208 remaining games and worst thing about playing for
WITH RON 
pounds improve each week as a Notre Dame: being in South ISRAEL dorm: O'Neill Hall player Bend 
page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 17, 2000 
Fighting Irish schedule Sep. 2 TEXAS A&M W Sep.9 N iiWIIINWII~ L Sep. UE W at ra_;gan State L ST4NFbRD W Naf!' W at West Virginia W Oct. 28 AIR FORCE W Nov. 11 BOSTON COLLEGE W Nov. 18 at Rutgers Nov. 25 at USC 


Sc.arlet Knights schedule Sep. 2 VILLANOVA W Sep. 9 BUFFALO W Sep. 16 at Virginia Tech L 
::::~ ~ 
Oct. 14 TE ·· · L .. 
Oct. 21 at Navy ·. W Oct. 28 at B~~COUege L Nov. 11 ~'\?mGINIA L Nov. 18 NOTRE DAME Nov. 25 at Syracuse 

fifth season at Rutgers 
career record: 
26-48-2 
at Rutgers: 
I I-42 
Terry Shea against Notre Dame: head coach 0-I 
Roster 


fourth season at Notre Dame 
career record: 
28-18 

at Notre Dame: 
28-18 

Bob Davie against Rutgers: head coach o-o 
Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
I  llrock Williams  CB  5-10  190  SR  
2  C.irlos l'icm·-Antoin,· 11.ll  6-3  242  JR  
2  l>,rn Nuvakov  QU  6-1  220  so  
3  Amaz Hattie  QB'  6-1  218  JR  
4  Justin Smith  I'S  5-11  197  SR  
~  Knn IMacl  SS  h-\J  208  SR  
h  IJ,tvid Givt•ns  Fl  6-3  217  JR  
7  Carlyl,• 1lohd•y  QB  6-2  190  rn  
X  Lnn.•n10 Crawford  WR  5-11  175  l'R  
g  J,m•,l Cl.it~  QB  6-4  220  FR  
10  M,1 tl Lo Vt«:t:h iu  QB  6-3  200  FI<  
IO  l{yan Krueger  QI!  5-g  178  JR  
11 12  Jay Johnson . Tony l'1shcr  SE TR  5-11 h--2  195 225  FR JR  
D  Nie~ S.•tl,l  K/P  6-0  175  so  
U  Jul' k,1n1nd1•1  QB/Th  6-0  222  SR  
14  Cary Godsey  QI!  h--7  240  so  
15  Cliffor,l !,•Herson  CB  5-9  180  JR  
16  Abr•m !'lam  Qll/DB 6-1  190  FR  
17  J,wy llildhold  I'  5-lll  190  so  
IH  Jm•y t,,•tlwr•ll  l'I.  5-7  175  SR  
19  (;Imn l',ul  SS  6-2  215  so  
20  (;,,,.,me Sapp  I'S  6-0  210  FR  
21  Javm Ilunt,•r  SI'  6-0  l/!li  JR  
22  Julius Jon,.,.  Tll  5-10  201  so  
23  Ums Yura  FB  5-11  211  so  
24  Lhad Ilc•Bolt  CB  5-10  IY3  ~)  
25  T1>ny l)riwr  FS  b-2  220  SR  
26  C,1rnm llibl,•  RB  5-Jll  !HS  Fl<  
27  J,,son llcckstrom  CB  5-10  190  so  
28  Donald Dyk,•s  SS  5-11  195  JR  
29  Ju•lin Smith  FS  5-1 t  193  SR  
29  Brian Ol<•nia,ik  FL  5-11  195  SR  
]()  Rm·ky Boim•n  O1.H  b-4  24!1  JR  
:ll  Dwaync..11-ranl·is  CB  6-0  195  JR  
32  Tt•rrant:l" Howard  TR  6--1  195  JR  
]3  Cnurtncy Watson  11.B  6-1  220  so  
J4  Vunkz Duff  Ril  6-1  175  FR  
J4  Jilscmt Vukc•lich  FB  5-lll  229  SR  
35  D.tvid M,Ikor  K  5-11  191  JR  
35  Tim O'Neill  TH  5-5  170  JR  
36  Tom Lnplrn.,ki  Fil  6-1  245  JR  
::18  l're•ton l•c"5<.,n  DB  5-10  172  FR  
38  Eric Nelson  I.fl  6-0  225  JR  
39  Antht1ny l),,nman  !Lil  h--2  2.'15  SR  
40  lason Murray  FU  6-1  2."9  SR  
4 I  Mlkt• t;,~ilsby  1.U  6-4  225  FR  
42  Shane Walton  CB  5-11  183  JR  
41  Anthonv llrannan  ILB  5-10  215  SR  
44  Gr,mt l;ons  DE  6-5  275  SR  
45  M<llt Sarb  55  5-11  201  JR  
46  Jer,•my Juar...-,  Fil  5-11  251  SR  
47  Mikt• MrNair  rn  6-0  240  JI~  
4H  Kyle lludmscak  DI.  6-5  250  FR  
49  Dm•k Curry  Lil  h--4  225  FR  
50  Cedric I lilliard  DT  6-2  290  so  
51  Tyreo t-litrrison  !Ill  6-2  242  JR  
52  Jt•!f f'amc  C  6-3  292  so  
52  Mark M,tchell  OI.B  5-10  220  SR  
53  Jason f-lalvorsnn  1.8  h--2  210  so  
54  Luigi R.10  ILB  5-IO  215  SR  
55  Jim Jones  0G  6-2  310  SR  
56  l'al Ryan  ILB  6-3  235  so  
57  Justin Thoma5  OLB  6-1  245  so  
58  Joseph Muell,•r  LB  5-11  195  SR  
59  Brian Dil•rckman  ILB  6-1  255  SR  
6ll  Darrell Campbdl  DE  6-4  285  so  
61  Mike Zdenk,1  FB  6-0  22"  SR  
62  Casey Robin  OT  6-7  305  SR  
63  Bnmnan Curtin  OT  6-8  315  so  
64  John Crowther  C  6-2  240  JR  
65  S.-an Milltgan  0G  6-4  295  so  
66  JW Jnnlan  C  6-1  275  SR  
67  Ryan<.:illis  0G  6-3  292  so  
69  Mike Gandy  OC  6-4  315  SR  
70  Jim Molinaro  DE  6-6  265  so  
72  Ryan Scamla  0G  6-5  301  JR  
73  Adam Tibble  K  5-11  201  JR  
75  Kurt Voller.;  OT  6-7  310  SR  
76  john Tca,._lalc  ar  6-5  305  SR  
77  Grcg l'auly  DL  6-6  275  FR  
78  Jordan BI,rk  OT  6-6  3IO  JR  
79  St.•an Mahan  OT  6-3  288  JR  
80  Omar J,•nkins  WR  6-2  180  FR  
H l  Jerome Collins  WR  6-4  200  FR  
82  Ronnie Rodaml•r  WR  6--4  185  FR  
82  Berna rd Aka tu  SE  S-10  180  JR  
83  Josh Gentilc  K/1'  S-1 I  199  so  
84  john Owens  DE  6-3  265  JR  
85  Jeffrey Campbell  TE/OE  6-1  200  JR  
86  Dan O'I ,{•ary  TE  6-3  260  SR  
87  jabari flnlloway  TE  6-3  260  SR  
MY  CcralJ Morgan  TE  6-4  261  JR  
90  Lann.-Ll.'grce  NG  6-l  285  SR  
91  Andrc•w Dempsey  DE  6-2  265  SR  
92  Malt MrNew  K  6-3  200  SR  
93  BJ. Scott  DT  6-3  290  SR  
94  Andy Wisne  DT  6-3  272  SR  
95  Ryan Rob,•rts  DE  6-2  251  JR  
%  Hilly l'almcr  rn  1,-3  2'i0  FR  
tJH  Anth(my Wt:>avt•r  DT  6-3  276  JR  
99  Jason Sapp  LB  6-3  2.10  FR  

IN POSITION: tailbacks 

LIZ LANGfThe Observer Tailback Tony Fisher carries the ball Oct.21 in Notre Dame's win over West Virginia. The junior will replace an injured Julius Jones Saturday at Rutgers. 
Rushing ahead as backup 
Ob)erver Staff Report 
Irish rushers stole the limelight Saturday when Notre Dame showcased its depth at the tailback position. 
Hushing their way to 28-16 victory over Boston College, head coach Bob Davie and the Irish proved that they will not miss a beat with sophomore starter Julius Jonos sidelined with a deep thigh bruiso. 
Roommates Tony Fisher and Terrance Howard showed they are a dynamic duo on and off lhe field, com­bining !'or 280 yards. 1-iisher rushed for a career-high 196 yards and two touch­downs. 
With Jones out against Rutgers, Davie has moved Fisher to the starting spot and Itoward to the No. 2 position. Look for the Irish to make big strides on the ground against a weak Scarlet Knight defense. 


RIJNNINCl 61\CK 30-Thom.. ·-~  
RIOHT1i 97-Rou70-Ballor  j  ,. ll!J ' ,. ,_ · ~> ·-:-·· •,, , I LEFf ~ TACKL '~,Yi{  

LEFT 
911-Wea 
84-0wens 
FREE SAFETY 25-Drlver 26-0ykes 

No. 1 2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 15 17 18 19 20 21 22 21 24 25 26 27 
2R 
29 30 31 32 
34 
35 
36 
37 
38 
39 
40 
41 
42 
43 
44 
45 
46 47 
48 
49 50 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 
60 
61 62 64 65 
66 
69 70 71 72 73 
74 
76 
77 
78 79 80 81 82 
83 84 
85 
86 
87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 % 
97 
98 99 
Name Sh•hib White Tony Berry Wesley Robertson 
Ravon Anderson 
Jcn•mc Baker Torrance Heggi-t• Dl•lrico Flt•tdwr Carret Shea Chad Schwl'nk Pet<•r Mrndez Chris Dapolito Michael Jones Mikt· Barr Steven Barom· Nate 1.eon~rd Mike McMahon Walt,•r King Vaughn Calhoun )erred Friday Dewayne thompson Travis Hinton Shawn Seabr0<>ks Brandon Ilaw Anthony Frazier Aaron Krause Jason Gran! Jason Ohcne Ben Martin Dennis Thmnas Wes Lysack Nathan Jones Nate Colon Heatdiff Leonor Joe Stellkt• John Ciurciu Na'ati Akauola Mitchell Davis 
Seth Stanton Gary Brackett Brian Bcndcr Raheem Orr Jeremy Campbell Bill Hambrecht Troy Marion Tarcll l'rceney Dan Woodard Brian Hohmann Ed Jordan Jeff Olsen Dave Showalt,•r Dennis McCormack Rich Mazza Ron Jcnereth.' Steve Berson Ron Simone Marcus Perry Jason Malakoski Thomas Petko Mike Williamson Rob Dinsmore Jeremy Womack John Comiskey Howard Blackwood Tim Baker Randy Smith Jacob Gamer Brian Duffy Travis Mills K Kaczorowski Rich McManis Mike &posito Julian Ross Errol Johnson Sean Carty A.aron Martin Mahiri Mt><idy Josh Hobbs LJSmith David Stringer William Burnett Antoine Lovelace Rob Ring Benson Hawkins Ryan Sands 
Andrew Carton 
Nick Javas Eric Mahoney Gary Gibson Billy Tulloch Jeremiah Barrett Marty Py,;zrzymuka Greg Pyszc-xymuka Pos. DB DB l.ll 
111 
DB DE WH DB 
Qfl 
Dll QB QB P K LB 
QU 
WR Dll LB DB RB 
DIJ 
Dll DB DB 
DU 
Rll Oii Rll Dll IJII DR RB LB 
PB 
Lil LR PB LB l.B 
LB 
LB 
Lil RB 1.8 l.B LB Lil DR OL LB 
OL 
DL LB LB DE DL NT 
OL OL OL 
DE OL 
OL 
OL OL OL OL OL OL 01 OL WR WR WR Dll 
WR TE 
WR DE WR TE DL K 
K 
WR WR DL DE DL DL DL Ht. 6-0 6-1 6-2 5-10 5-11 b-5 6-1 5-10 6-2 
(,-0 
6-4 6-4 6-3 5-11 6-1 6-3 6-2 6-0 6-3 
5-ti 
5-8 
5.q 
(,-0 5-11 5-10 6-1 h--0 6-0 6-1 
6--0 
6-0 
5·10 
5-9 
6-1 
(,-0 
6-0 
b--1 
6-2 5-11 6-2 6-4 
b-2 
6-2 6-1 6-0 6-3 6-3 t,-3 h--6 6-5 6-2 6-3 6-4 5-11 b-1 6-1 6-4 6-0 b-5 6-5 
6--4 
6--4 
6-4 6-4 6-4 6-6 6-5 6-5 6-6 
1,-5 
6-4 6-4 6-2 6-0 6-4 6-4 6-2 6-4 6--0 6-4 6-2 6-4 6-3 6-0 6-2 5-10 6-0 6-4 6-3 
1,-3 
6-2 6-2 
Wt, 190 185 225 
195 
185 220 190 190 200 195 215 2.10 215 170 210 215 200 190 210 IHS 185 190 170 
205 
1g5 190 195 205 220 200 170 
190 
200 220 240 220 220 240 220 210 225 235 215 210 200 220 205 210 240 JOO 
230 
280 250 210 245 
26() 
250 285 290 275 280 270 275 
305 
270 276 285 305 305 
320 
315 290 210 185 205 205 205 
225 
205 250 185 
250 
302 
225 
18'i 165 190 240 255 210 255 260 
YR SR JR SR JR 
l'R 
JR JR 
SR 
so SR 
l'R SR 
so JR so 
SR 
SR 
so 
so 
so 
50 
so 
so 
FR 
FR 
FR 
JR 
JR 
JR 
l'R 
FR 
so 
so 
JR 
SR 
FR 
so 
JR 
so 
so so FR FR FR JR FR FR fR FR so SR 
SR 
FR 
so 
so 
JR 
l'R 
SR FR FR JR 
FR 
so 
SR SR 
FR FR JR FR 
FR 
so JR SR so so 
SR 
so JR so so so JR 
FR 
FR so so JR 
DI. 
JR 
FR 
l'R 
so 

Friday, November 17, 2000 The Observer . EYE ON THE ENEMY page 5 
Knights prepare to pull off biggest upset since 1988 

By KERRY SMITH 
Sporrs Editor 
On paper Saturday's match-up between No. 11 Notre Dame and unranked Hutgers looks mure like an exercise than a contest. 
Hiding a five-game win­ning streak with a Bowl Championship Series bid on the horizon, the Irish have the talent to deliver a painful blow to the Scarlet Knights. And while Irish head coach Bob Davie expects to earn a win on the road, he ts not looking past lhc faltering Knights. 
"'Hutgers is a team that spreads tho field,'' Davie said. "They have good receivers ... Defensively they play really hard. They took Wost Virginia to dou­ble overtime last week and last year they beat Svrarnse in their last home game." 
Despite the clear mis­match, Davie may hav!' good reason to wait until the final seconds tick off the clock before declaring his team the winner -even though Rutgers holds just a 3-6 (0-6) record, the Scarlet 
fast facts ABOUT RUTGERS 

Knights have enough moti­vation to catch the confi­dent Irish off guard. 
After announcing his res­ignation Kov. 3, Knight head coach Terry Shea is playing his last game in Rutgers Stadium and he and the 13 graduating seniors on the squad are eager to end the home sea­son with one of the biggest wins in Rutgers' history. And Davie is rcadv to com­bat not only the"physical challenge of the game but the mental as well. 
"'You go into this week and certainly [the scenario] changes a little more," Davie said. "It is Terry Shea's last home football game that he is coaching in ... So as always every week there are those [issues] swirling around." 
The Knights look to capi­talize on those intangible issues and pull of their first win against a ranked oppo­nent since 1988. 
Quarterback Mike McMahon heads an oJiense that has struggled all sea­son to put enough points on the board this season. 
Despite throwing 13 interceptions and leading 
. 
Location: New Brunswick, N.J. . Enrollment: 35,308 . Founded: 1766 

. 
Colors: Scarlet 

. 
Nickname: Scarlet Knights 

. 
Conference: Big East 


his team to a series of win­less conference outings, McMahon is considered one of the leading signal callers in the Big East with a 50 pPrcent. completion rate. 
Running back Dennis Thomas is the Knights' go­to player on the ground. With 96 carries on the sea­son, he has amassed 371 yards and one touchdown. 
In the air, Errol Johnson has emerged as the llmding receiver on the Rutgers' squad. 
The wide receiver leads the team with five touch­downs and 435 yards. 
The Knights' offense has struggled, however. and has yet to play a fumble­free game. 
DPfensively, the Knights have faltered continually. Giving up an average on 42 points a game, opponents have steam rolled over the Knights all season long. 
Only an improved defen­sive effort coupled with a solid grasp on the intangi­ble factors will let the Knights in the game -a game that they sorely need to win to add a highlight to an otherwise dismal sea­son. 
. 
Rutgers has not scored against Notre Dame in either of its previous tries in 1921 or 1996. 

. 
Coach Terry Shea, Big East coach of the year in 1998, will . step down following this season. 



·-----------­

I
I 
AROUND THE NATION 
page 6 A LOOK AT Tms WEEKEI\D's COLLEGE FOOTBALL ACTION Friday, November I7, 2000 
-----~ 

AP poll GAME OF THE WEEK 
1.eam record points 
1. 

Oklahoma 9-0 1,774 2 Miami (Fla.) 8·1 1,690 3 Florida Slale 1().1 1,629 4 Florida 9-1 1,551 5 Oregon 9·1 1,490 6 Washinglon 9-1 1,429 7 Virginia Tech 9-1 1,328 8 Oregon Stale 9.1 1,263 9 Kansas State 9-2 1,124 10 Nebraska 8-2 1,101 11 NOTRE DAME 7-2 1,006 12 Ohio.State 8-2 957 13 Mississippi Slate 8-1 896 14 Texas 8·2 725 15 TCU 8-1 679 16 Clemson 8-2 662 17 Purdue 7.3 603 18 Auburn 8-2 599 19 Michigan 7.3 543 20 Georgia Tech 7-2 469 21 TexasA&M 7.3 328 22 Georgia 6·3 322 23 Northwestern 7-3, 284 24 Southern Mississippi 7-2: 238 25 South Carolina 7-3 121 
ESPN/USA Today poll 
ream record points 
1 Oklahoma 9-0 1,473 2 Miami {Fla.} 8-1 1,407 3 Florida State 10·1 1,357 4 Florida 9-1 1,297 5 Washington 9-1 1,196 fi Oregon 9-1 1,169 7 Virginia Tech 9-1 1,115 8 Oregon Stale 9-1 1,025 9 Kansas Stale 9·2 966 10 Nebraska 8-2 887 11 NOTRE DAME 7-2 812 12 Ohio State 8-2 802 
loss at the hands of archri­Chaney and Davy Ford are turnovers, and plenty of
13 Mississippi Slate 7-2 726 
By PEYTON BERG val Miami. Florida handily out for the season with trash talking all day long.
14 Clemson 8-2 672 
Spom Writer defeated South Carolina last injuries, so Minor should be Aside from the BCS impli­
15 Texas 8-2 631 
week, assuring it a trip to the featured back. cations, this rivalry is spe­
16 TCU 8-1 563 
Enacting a time-honored the SEC Championship The Gators counter with cial for many reasons.
17 Purdue 7-3 512 
ritual, the lone warrior on game, where it will most freshman Jabar Gaffney, Most of the players know
18 Michigan 7-3 449 
horseback rides to midfield likely face the only team who has had six straight each other and/or played
19 Auburn 8-2 410 
20 Southern Miss. 7-2 323 and throws a flaming spear that blemished its record, 100-yard receiving games. against each other in high 21 Georgia 6-3 297 into the ground. At Doak­Mississippi State. Coach Steve Spurrier said school. With both schools 22 Georgia Tech 7-2 261 Campbell Stadium, this League championships he will employ the two­going after the same 23 TexasA&M 7-3 154 means one thing: the aside, both teams are trying headed quarterback attack Florida natives, the coach­24 Northwestern 7-3 141 Seminole Nation is at war. to leapfrog Miami in the of Rex Grossman and Jesse ing stalls have something to 25 Tenneuee 6-3 102 Saturday, No. 3 Florida BCS rankings based on the Palmer for the entire game. prove to all the anxious State hosts No. 4 Florida strength of schedule vari­Defensively, two of the high school seniors around for the right to stay alive in able. More importantly, nation's finest defensive the state. Florida State pos­the national championship these two teams match up ends will be on display. sessfls a 51-game home race. evenly with each other at Florida's Alex Brown has winning streak, longest in Both teams enter almost every position. shown flashes of briiliance the nation. In addition to Saturday's contest red hot Offensively, both the intermixed with sporadic mutual dislike, all of these
Observer 

and entertaining dreams of Gators and the 'Noles pos­bouts of inconsistency. factors lead to one thing: sneaking into the BCS sess game-breaking talent Seminole defensive end intense competition. Championship should either at the skill positions. Jamal Heynolds has Special teams always play 
experts 

Miami or Oklahoma falter. Travis Minor, Anquan amassed 12 sacks on the a role in this game. Look for 
The Seminoles have not Boldin and Marvin Minnis season thus far, but none a three-point margin of vic­
benn legitimately chal­give Chris Weinke an would be sweeter than tory and a battle to the end 
NOTl{E DAME lenged at all this year impressive array of options. against the hated Gators. in one of the biggest rival­
except for a bitter 27-24 Backup running backs Jeff Prepare for hard hits, ries in college sports. 
FL0HIDA 





OHEG0N STATE Omo STATE 
Season Record 
27-1 I 
Nonrn DAME FL0HIDA STATE OHEG0N Omo STATE 
Season Record 
25-13 
NOTRE DAME FL0HIDA STATE OHEG0N STATE 
MICIIIGAN 
Season Record 
23-15 
OTHER TOP GAMES 
Oregon at Oregon State: The annual "Civil War" takes on new signifi­cance this year, as the winner seizes the inside track to the Hose Bowl in Pasadena. Oregon and Oregon State join Washington in the top 10, yet Urn Pac-10 still struggles to get the same respect Pnjoyed by the other big conferences. 
Coach Dennis Erickson knows how to build a winning program. In just his sec­ond year, he has guided tho Beavers to an impressive 8-1 record. Running back Ken Simonton leads a balanC"ed BeaVf~r attack. which should only get better as Erickson rncruits more talent. 
The Ducks rely on the solid play of quarterback .hwy Harrington, and need this victory to win thP conferpnce cham­pionship outright. 
or thll two. Oregon Statfl's d11tense has shown more mottle this season. Oregon's "Gang Groen"' defense has revealed sonrn holes lately, most notably against Arizona State. The offense has had to come from behind in the last three games, a statistic that does nol bode well h<'ading into Saturday. 
Michigan at Ohio State: This once storied rivalry has lost some of its luster. While other games will have more influ­ence upon the Bowl Championship Series picture, this one centers on pride and tenuous Rose Bowl aspirations. 
People have to wonder what went wrong with Michigan this year. Its schedule was manageable. and the Wolverine offense is one of the best in the nation. 
Unfortunately for the maize and blue, the delensn has not showf.id up all year. The Buckeyes got new life when Purdun lost a stunner to Michigan State last weekend. 
They still need help from NorthwPstern, but could conceivably make it to the Hose Bowl after all. 
The great thing about this match-up is that the better team rarely wins. In the last dm:ade, the team with more at stake has lost. 
John Cooper's failure to dflfeat Michigan teams with the title on the line blew chances for two national champi­onships. 
around the dial 
Michigan at Ohio State 
1 2 p.m., ABC channel sR 
Illinois at Northwestern 
12 p.m., ESPN2 
Indiana at Purdue 
3:30 p.m., /lBC channel 58 
Notre Dame at Rutgers 
3:30 p.m., CBS channel 22 
Mississippi at Georgia 
6 p.rn., BSPN2 
Washington at Washington St 
6:30 p.m., FOXSPN 
Florida at Florida State 
8 p.m., ABC channel 58 

----F-ri~da_y_,N~ov_e_m_b-e-r-17-,-2-0-oo_____________Ti_n_e~O-b-se_rv_e_r.-I-RI_S_H_I_N_S_ID_E_R------~--~~----------------p-a..,ge_7___1 
the inside 

EVEN
edge 

records: 7-2 
A.P. rank; n coaches' poll: , r 

records; 3-6 
A.P. rank: NR coaches' poll: NR 
Series Record 
Notre Dame leads 


quarterbacks: LoVecchio has gotten the job done with a 5-0 record as a starter. The second­ranked qllarterback in Rutgers' history. McMahon is an JVJ,L­prospect, averaging 21 7 passing yards a game. 
running backs: Jones is injured, but Fisher and Howard proved the Irish won't miss a beat. Rutgers' ranks 106th in rushing offense. 
receivers: The Irish present multiple threats at receiver and LoVecchio is comfort­able in the offensive scheme. Smith made the All-Big East presea­son list. 
offensive line: The Irish are coming offtheir most productil'e rushing game lhis year. 
defensive line: Weaver, Legree and Roberts have been a solid trio at the line of scrimmage. The • Knights have let their opponents run all over them this season. giving up nearly twice the yards on defense than they hal'e gained offensively. 
linebackers: Denman and Boiman are standouts on ihe Irish, leading Notre Dame in tackles. Freeney and Robertson each have more than 60 tackles. 
secondary: The Irish are strong with Dril'er and Williams leading the defensive effort. Rutgers' secondary has struggled all season, giving np too many big­yard plays. 


special teams: The Irish 
have been stellar all 
season. Rutgers 
averages only 30 yards 
a punt and has made justJonr ofnine field goal attempts. 
coaching: With afaked punt andfield goal against Boston College. Davie has proved he has _guts to make risky calls. The Knights are suffer­ing through another losing season and Shea resigned e_ffective at the end ofthe season. 
intangibles: The Irish 
need this game to earn 
a BCS bid, but the 
Knights have nothing to 
lose. Shea and 13 
seniors are playing 
their last home game 
and are hungry for an 
upset. 

Overall 
Notre Dame should roll all over Rutgers Saturday. The Knights have a lot to play for and nothing to lose, but if the Irish stay focused and don't look ahead to big­ger and better things they should win easily. 
IRISH INSIGHT 

Football gets cold reception in Northeast 
Matt LoVocchio, Hon Israel 

and several other New Jersey  
natives return home this week­ 
end. Parents, siblings, friends  
and a sold-out crowd of 41,500  
will greet  
the Garden  
State guys  
when Notre  
Dame visits  
Piscataway.  
The game  
marks only  
the second  
capacity  
crowd since Tim Casey  
the "new"  
Hutgers  
Stadium Assistant  
opened in Sports Editor  
1994. The  
fifth biggest  
audience in stadium history  
stands at 33,279.  
And to think Rutgers is  
arguably the third best pro­ 
gram in the Northeast, trailing  
only Syracuse and Boston  
College.  
In that region (the six New  
England states, New Jersey  
and New York), college foot­ 
ball's popularity ranks just  
above John Rocker's.  
Think professional hockey in  
the Southwest.  
"It's mostly basketball," said  
freshman linebacker Jason  
Sapp. "That's what the  
Northeast is about."  
Add professional football,  
baseball, tennis, golf, hiking  
and mountain biking. Anything PETER RICHARDSON/The Observer  
but the Sport that Rockne Built. No. 98 Tony Weaver is only one of four Notre Dame players hailing from the Northeast. Traditionally New England, New York and  
The New York and Boston media, two of the United States' biggest markets, virtu­ally ignore local college foot­ball. And that's with some of  New Jersey are not hot football Besides the futility, there are other reasons for the apathy. First, the competition for the  markets. Nashville Predators. Then there's Texas, where the obsession begins early.  ing, even from the Jersey guys," Weaver said. "I hear it from just about everybody. I'm  "When you go to New Jersey, you'll find coaches from Georgia, Georgia Tech and  ..  
the most recognized and respected football journalists in the country on staff. The Boston Globe's Mark  sports fan. Massachusetts has the Red Sox, Patriots, Bruins and Celtics. New York has the Yankees, Mets, Rangers. Giants  "There's nothing like playing in front of 20,000 fans in high school," said safety Gerome Sapp, a native of Houston. "The  just trying to represent the state." Assistant coach Jerry Rosburg, who coordinates  Florida State. It's not like it's ignored." Bul only four players on the Irish roster ­Weaver, Sapp,  
Blaudschun, New York Daily News' Dick Weiss, New York Times' Joe Drape and several other Northeast-based college football writers rank among the nation's best.  and Knicks. New Jersey has the Jets, Nets and Devils. In Rhode Island and Connecticut, college basketball rules. Providence College, University of Rhode Island and  stadiums would be closed down, the streets would be blocked off before games. "We make fun of them [the Irish players who are not from Texas] and say, 'you don't have  recruiting, would disagree with the players' assessments. In the past two years, the Irish staff has landed players from such non-traditional football places like Bridgeport. Conn. ­ JW Jordan and Chad DcBolt ­are from the other Northeast states. On Saturday, big-time college football comes to that region. And with that comes requests.  ..  
But because only five of the 114 Division 1-A teams (the aforementioned three, Buffalo and Connecticut) reside in the Northeast, the newspapers would rather send their best to  the UConn men's and women's teams have a faithful following. Residents of Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont enjoy the pro teams if they aren't too busy skiing, snowboarding or  football there and that Texas originated football." Defensive end Tony Weaver, from Sarasota Springs. N. Y., has felt the vvTath of the 19 Irish players from the Lonestar  Jason Sapp ­and Billings, Mont. ­Pat Ryan. Seven Notre Dame players are from New Jersey. "To say that the Northeast is overlooked is an exaggeration,"  "Hopefully l can get some more tickets," Weaver said. "I should have a lot of family and friends there." Wonder how many of those people attended last week's  - 

South Bend or Gainesville. listening to Phish. State. Although he grow up as Rosburg said. "In the popular Rutgers' game against West How bad is the quintet? In SEC and Big Ten country, a Notre Dame fan, he realizes media, they don't get enough Virginia"? They have a combined record arena football, minor league that the pigskin cannot com­credit for having good football. 
of 19-29, Connecticut is in its hockey and CBA compete with pete with the round ball in the Having lived there, I know The opinions expressed in first year of 1-A and Buffalo the local college team. And Northeast. there's good football coaches this column are those ofthe don't forget the NHL's ''I always here about how up there and good players up author and not necessarily
joined the highest division last 

season. Columbus Blue Jac;kets and New York football's got noth-there. those ofThe Observer. 
1­



-
.. 
-
C-M 
Campus Ministry 

memorial ma~~ in Qonor oi :Brionne elary Rovember 20, 2000 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
5:15 p.m. Rev. Edward A. Malloy, c.s.c., presider 
Brianne was aformer member of Welsh Family Hall and of the junior class. 
The mass is open to all students, faculty, and staff. The support of the Notre Dame family at 
this service will mean agreat deal to the Clary family, who will be in attendance. You are all welcome and encouraged to attend. 
...,...._ ·.. -.-----.----........... ..........__ 

-~ ) . 
PERSONALITY l2 lK(Q)[F rllE-1 
~ 

,~~-Esther ovson 

· President. ~ ,-EDventure Holdings 
..,,, Esther Dyson is ·v ~•J known to almostA everyone who under­

stands the business of the Internet. She's the President of EDventures Holdings, an influential VC firm with investments in Russia and Eastern Europe. "In many ways Russia is another world," she says. "But experiences there can tell us a lot about how the fundamen­tals of the old economics keep working under different conditions-both in the strange world of Russia and the supposedly new-economics world of the Internet." 

Gina Smith 
CEO, NIC Corporation 

When 36-year-old reporter Gina Smith was named CEO of the New Internet Computer Company (thinknic.com) earlier this year, jaws dropped and tongues wagged. NIC is Oracle CEO Larry Ellison's latest venture, another step in his dream to bring Internet access to the masses. 
NIC is a cheap ($199), "thin-applica­tion" computer. It doesn't store applica­tions on a hard drive, it makes them avail­able online. Thousands of NICs are being given away to promote the new company. If 
Dyson is at the top of a profession 
dominated by men, but feels that women 
have unique advantages in the Internet 
world. "The Net gives the underappreciat­
ed, underheard, underwhatever more 
access, so to that extent it helps women." 
Dyson also has a distinct opinion about 
privacy on the Net. "Individuals will have to 
learn how to manage their data for them­
selves. But they will have to get used to the 
fact that what they say to friends will prob­
ably be archived somewhere. If you want to 
keep something private, don't tell anyone!" 
Education: Harvard 1972, B.A. in econom­ics. "I didn't study much in college, to be honest, but the analytical thinking I learned in economics has proved useful." 
it works, the NIC will join a flood of devices that people use to access the Internet­cell phones, PDAs, pagers. 
Smith may never have run a company before, but she's one of the country's best known tech journalists. In 1991 she began a popular column in the San Francisco Examiner and Chronicle called "Inside Silicon Valley." Her syndicated tech advice column, "Ask Gina," reached 10 million readers. She's done various radio shows on the ABC Radio network, and hosted the Discovery Channel's "Cyberlife." 
College: Florida State, majored in Chemistry and English. "What was truly relevant from college was my work at FSU's daily paper, the Florida Flambeau." 
Current projects: President of EDventure Holdings; Interim Chairperson, Internet Corporation of Assigned Names and Numbers; Publisher of Release 1.0, Internet newsletter 
How she got there: reporter for Forbes magazine, 1974-77; Securities analyst with New Court Securities (1977-80) and Oppenheimer (1980-82) 
Recognition: Ranked 23rd in Russia's Who's Who in the Computer Market; one of Fortune magazine's "most powerful women in American business" (1998). • 
For the complete interview with Esther Dyson, log on to steamtunnels.net and search for keyword "Esther Dyson." 
About women in business: "Women are excellent communicators who collaborate well. That helps get things done more quickly. Speed is everything in the Internet business." 
On being a writer turned CEO: "The advantage is the huge Rolodex. I know all the top dogs-and when I need to talk to them, I'm not afraid to call." 
Internet future: "Anything requiring broad­band will flourish. Live video. Online first­person action games, video conferencing, the beginnings of copying movies. What will fail? The PC-only approach to the Internet." • 
For the complete interview with Gina Smith, go to steamtunnels.net and search for keywords "Gina Smith." 

't ~~ :::,:!er 
..., ~-, founder/CEO, ./'" ...,,_ ;w : BXPerience Inc. 
"~)
· ..-•;;JJ / you may owe your 
\ future job to Jennifer 

Floren. Her company, experience Inc., is an 
online and print resource aimed at graduat­
ing college students entering the job mar­
ket. The company is one of the leaders in 
online student and alumni recruiting. 
Floren is a role model for anyone want­

ing to skip "working for the man" and start 
up a business. Floren went straight from 
Dartmouth to Bain and Company, a top 
Boston consulting firm. She ditched the corporate role quickly however, and soon founded Ivy Productions, an online and offline provider of job information for col­
lege students. She then merged with Crimson Partners to form a new company, experience.com, in 1996. With over 140 college subscribers and deep-pockets ven­ture capital, experience.com plays a leading role in getting graduating students in touch with the best jobs. 
College: Dartmouth College in 1993 with a 
B.A. in psychology: "I studied Organizational Behavior, and I use it every day. Study what you love; there's plenty of time for training later on." 
The startup: Founder of Ivy Productions in 1996; launched experience network in 1996; currently CEO of merged experi­ence.com. "I realized the need for credible, objective career advice." 
Finances: Received $20 million in second round VC financing from Polaris partners in August 2000. "Women stand out in the business world, and that's an advantage. Bu the VC world is male dominated, and a woman has to learn different rules." 
Hiring students: "I look at what they want to do, not what they've done. I don't expect them to answer questions, but to know what to ask." • 
For the complete interview with Jennifer 
Floren, go to steamtunnels.net and 
search for keywords "Jennifer Floren." 
r otat er 1 1 $ $ 

2 steamtunnels.net 
I_ --~ ----~------­
hd . . fdc rt . CMdC. Cdd 

Steamtunnels 
MEET THE STAFF 
Corporate 
President-Robert Desmond Chief Operating Officer-Joseph Freeman Chief Financial Officer-Peter Catalino Vice President of National Advertising-Mark Businski MIS Director-David Stifter Office Manager-Jesse Lee 
Editorial 
Editor-in-Chief-Robert Desmond Managing Editor-Keith Powers Creative Director-Audrey Borowski Senior Editor-Erin Dionne Events Editor-Molly Delano Production Coordinator-Thomas Webb Senior Graphic Designer-Sue Gell Production Assistant-Leah McCoy Assistant Editor-Douglas Desmond Contributing Editor-Jerome Catalino Contributing Writers-Michelle Aguilar, Adam Baldwin, Nini Diana, Melanie Farmer, Erica Feick, Gina Fraone, January Gill, Tony Green, Dan Johnson, Jason Lowenthal, Tamar Maor, Bob Mucci, Mac Randall, Genevieve Rajewski, Genevieve Robertson, Stacey Shackford, Michelle Silver, Yasmin Tabi, Jack Teems, John Walker, Jon Workman, Kathryn Yu, Karen Zierler 
National Advertising 
Account Executive-Eli S. Belil Account Executive-Kay Dendy Account Executive-Francis J. Fitts Sales Associate-Lisa Bruckenstein Sales Associate-Lisa M. Karl 
Regional Marketing Managers 
Northeast-Andrew Gregory Southeast-Saul Lookner Mid-Atlantic-David Mars Southwest-Peter Maugeri Midwest-Tony McRoberts West Coast-Matthew McRoberts 
Web Development 
Directors of Web Development-Aaron Bell, Lawrence Gentilello. Tuyen Truong Online Editor-Wendy Marinaccio Content Manager-Brian Mackle Graphic Designer-Sanford Arisumi Java Developer-Anju Gupta Web Producer/Office Coordinator-Nicole Brown 
Editorial Advisory Board 
Kathryn Lawrence-University of Texas, Austin Stacey Nail-Cal State Long Beach Laurie-Ann Paliotti, M.Ed.-Brown Blaise Provitola-Florida State and Florida Ronald Spielberger-College Media Advisors, 
Executive Director Alan Waters-West Virginia 
Steamtunnels® is a publication of CollegeWebGuide.com, Inc. Copyright © 2000 All Rights Reserved 
Main Office 
220 Boylston St., Suite 302 Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 tel (617) 964-5060 fax (617) 964-5065 info@steamtunnels.net 
Advertising Sales 
Empire State Building, Suite 3920 350 Fifth Avenue New York, NY 10118 tel (212) 404-7455 fax (212) 404-7460 advertisi ng@stea mtu nnels. net 
Web Development 
37 A 29th Street San Francisco, CA 94110 tel (415) 401-1560 fax (415) 206-1409 
Email: You can send email to any Steamtunnels staff member by typing the person's first initial and last name, followed by @steamtunnels.net. 
Michelle Silver 
Contributing Writer 
Michelle Silver is a manag­ing editor at Zooba.com, a free recreational email service. Before that, she 

was senior editor of Girl's Life, a national magazine for girls. She was also senior editor of Mother Earth News, which she left to establish herself as a freelance writer. Her work has appeared in Psychology Today, Success, Family Fun and 
P.O. V. Recently, Michelle co-authored I'm Not Mad, I just Hate You!: A New Understanding of Mother-Daughter Conflict (Viking/Penguin, 1999). 
College: Tulane (1987-89); B.A. English Literature, writing concentration, from Clark University. 
Hometown: Orange, Conn. Has lived in New Orleans, Worcester, New York, Baltimore, L.A., Boulder and Boston. 
Favorite sites: survivorsucks.com, spinner.com, expedia.com and Mr.showbiz.com 
Favorite books: Sophie's Choice, The Fountainhead,-The Great Santini 
Tonv McRoberts Midwest Regional Marketing Manager 
Tony lives and works in Chicago, maintaining his territory in the central 

U.S. He has the distinction of being able to work with his alma mater, Michigan State. It is rumored in the Boston office that Tony has a view of Wrigley Field from his Chicago apart­ment, and can catch Sammy Sosa's home runs from his balcony. Tony's brother, Matt, is also a Steamtunnels Marketing Manager. 
Favorite place in Chicago: Wrigleyville 
Dream vacation: Backpacking through South America Worst job: Pulling weeds Movies and CDs he'd want on a 
desert island: The Mack, Jimi Hendrix' Blues, Beatnuts' Stone Crazy 
Favorite web sites: steamtunnels.net, cubs.com, scour.com 

;;;,.,; ',' ',(/:±t:l'ifl,!
Steamtunnels is liinng campus , web masters and sales associates. Earn up to $150 a week, working ~" 'on a part-time, flexible schedule. < 
• Make $50 a week building school-specific sites for Y'f > • Steamtunnels.net, working.5-7 hours a week. 



Sales Associates will: 
• Make up to $150 a week selling online advertising to local busi­nesses, working 10-12 hours a week. 
No web design or prior sales experience is necessary. 
" 

Email vour resume to .:,.,~ ·~: campusiobs@steamtunnels.net 
J ~~~ ' I ~) 
Steamtunnels Poll 
What type of video games do you play? 
let us know at steamtunnels.net 
Coming next week Special Issue: Movies 
Steamtunne/s' guide to this season's latest releases-with loads of infor­mation on movies and the Internet. 
Personality Profile: 
Adam Sandler 
Features: 
Holiday movie roundup Movie hosting sites Home movies on your computer Low bandwidth animation Top movies of all time First Time Buyer's Guide: 
Digital Video Cameras 
Web Site Feature Review: 
Movie making sites (with a dozen other site reviews too) 
steamtunnels.net 3 


continued from page 2 
i-Glow founders 
Jamie Eslinger and Brooke Bartlena 
Jamie Eslinger and Brooke Bartletta are brand new to the Internet scene and are making a splash with their site, i-Glow. i-Glow is a sports-oriented community for girls aged 8-16, and its official launch in September generated a lot of attention. "We want to take a real approach to the site and to what girls want," Eslinger said. Bartletta, who had experience in ad sales and worked for both AOL and the Wall Street Journal, and Eslinger, who worked in sports marketing and interactive advertising, met just over a year ago. Both played sports their whole lives, and wanted to give girls a place to come together to discuss why they love to play and to offer advice to one another: The result: a dynamic site where girls can support one another in a safe environment, provide encour­agement and learn about real women athletes. "We wanted the site to belong to the girls," Eslinger said, "and we had them vote on the logo, the design, and the sections. It really does belong to them." 
."'>?\i?, \·: 
j; ~--~.. 
J ' ?_)? --,·.i,
. 'Ii: ......'(­/{~-!I­
'· ..
-~---~11
\ :,  .\j  
:\  ·._ .J  
.:,  

Education: Eslinger graduated from Smith College in 1996, 
Bartletta graduated from Lehigh in 1994. Sports: Eslinger played basketball and was a walk-on on Smith's women's basketball team. Bartletta skis, plays tennis and volleyball. 
What they look for when hiring a college student: Someone who is responsible, openminded, who wants to learn and wants to take on a greater level of responsibility than you'd find in a normal job. 
Start-up business tactic: Three market research teams at Michigan's business school "adopted" i-Glow and helped with their focus groups and market research. 
Why there is a need for i-Glow: There's a large drop-off in girls playing sports after age 14, and Bartletta and Eslinger feel that a stronger community will help them stay involved longer: 
How they came up with the name: "Thirty years ago women couldn't even sweat. They said they either 'glowed' or 'glistened,' so it's kind of tongue-in-cheek. But [we also liked it] because we think when you're happy and healthy and energetic you glow from the inside out. We thought it had a powerful, drc:per meaning."• 
J --· 
.i 
Women Outnumber Men on the ·I World Wide Web 
I 
~

Males Females 
~ 

Ask theTmolovers JO~coMl 
Q. My future employer asked me if I had a salary requirement and I didn't know what to say, so I said "no." Now I am afraid that I made a mistake. Is it too late to negotiate? 
A. You can always negotiate! Keep in mind what you have to lose, which is usually nothing. In this case, you have not declared a salary requirement so you should be open to at least receiving any offer. Then you can always counteroffer. If the response to your counter is "We thought you had no requirement," you can say that you "would feel more comfortable with $_ after taking a closer look at it." Again, the worst thing they can say is no. If they don't accept your offer and you still want the job, you can take it at the amount they offered. Who knows? You may end up mak­ing a lot more money than you thought you were worth. An ex-boss I had while I was in a sales position had this motto: "If you don't ask, you don't get." I like to say, "negotiate or die." 
-Ryan Tucker, Director, Georgia Governor's Intern Program 
4 steamtunnals.nat 

----Steamtunnels is now hiring:---­
student Sales Associates Campus Web Masters 
Sales associates will work 10-15 hours a Web Masters will be paid a $50 weekly week selling online advertising to local retainer in return for 5-7 hours a week businesses. Sales associates are paid on posting up-to-date campus events, local commission, and will receive training and links, restaurant guides, and photographs support-no prior sales experience on their college's local Steamtunnels web necessary. Estimated weekly earnings of up site. to $150. This is an excellent opportunity for business/marketin ma·ors! 

steamtunnels.net 5 
+ 


t-

When Mount Holyoke College junior Erica Lutes landed a summer internship at the United States State Department (state.gov/www/careers/rinterncon tents.html) in Caracas, Venezuela, she had no idea what to expect. The job titles "international paper shredder" or "coffee server for the ambassador" came to mind. But instead, the international relations major spent her summer heading up an election observation program for the American embassy, writing reports on Venezuela's economic situation, composing classified cables on revolutionary activity, and hobnobbing with Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez Frias. "It was wonderful. You just can't imagine how much you can learn in one summer," said Lutes. Recent University of Vermont grad Jody Handly interned as a head field technician on a national wild fish health survey for Fish and Wildlife in Alabama, traveling between 10 states and working with state and federal agencies. Handly eventually developed her own project, which she hopes to complete in graduate school with the help of grants she was offered because of her internship. "It was a life-changing opportunity for me," said Handly. 
Finding the Right Internship 
Erica had to go through a rigorous appli­cation process that included interviews with the CIA to get her intern­ship. Jody found hers at the Student 
Conservation Association Interns working for the Block Island From Mickey Mouse to Letterman web site (sca-inc.org). branch of the Nature Conservancy. Ever wonder what it's like to be 
The SCA is the country's oldest and biggest intern placement organi­zation for those interested in conservation, placing thousands of students into posi­tions with organizations like the National Park Service and the U.S. Forest Service. 
The U.S. government has tons of oppor­tunities in practically every field. Although 
Mickey Mouse for a day? Disney theme parks (wdwcollegeprogram.com) have hundreds of opportunities for busi­ness majors, future hotel and restaurant managers, and even aspiring animators, filmmakers, dancers and actors. 
Fan of daytime drama? The new NBC show "Passions" is seeking interns now White House interns inevitably have to deal with occasional snide jokes about Monica, isn't it worth it to help shape domestic and foreign policy? Students interning for the Council on Environmental Quality advise the President on national and international environmental policy matters (whitehouse.gov/CEQ/interns.html), while interns at the Social Office help plan White House dinners and other gatherings. Try 
(whitehouse.gov/internship/program.html) 
for other government internships working 
Although White House interns inevitablV have to deal with occasional snide jokes about Monica, isn't ii worth it to help shape domestic and foreign policv? 

for the Chief of Staff, Counsel to the President, Office of the First Lady, the National AIDS Policy and other offices. 
Even the FBI is looking for a few good men and women (fbi.gov/employment/ honors.htm). So is the Department of Commerce's Central and Eastern Europe Business Information Center 
(mac.doc.gov/ eebic/intern.htm). 
Whatever your interest, be it 
: : folklore, African art, space travel, or astrophysics, the Smithsonian will likely have an amazing internship 
(http://web1.si.edu/ofg/ resopp.htm#intern). 
(http://home.nbci.com). Aspiring music video maker? Palomar Pictures lets interns dub and edit its music videos and commer­cial showreels with professional systems (rsinternships.com/ applications/ posting.php3?ID=-192). Another intern­ship site, www.rsinternship.com, can help you land jobs that range from running a night club in New York City to promoting the House of Chanel fashion, fragrance, or make­up lines through a public relations internship with the legendary French company. 
Fifteen lucky students per semester get to pour coffee for David Letterman (csp.msu.edu/slc/indetail.asp ?code=-CM A=-010). And according to MTV Networks spokesperson Suzanne Lumerman, about 700 interns get to work in the same build­ing with the likes of Carson Daly and the folks who bring you "Total Request Live" and "Real World" (mtv.com/jobs.html). 
Even if you don't land on Letterman, there are likely to be plenty of possibilities for cool internships in your hometown. Check with your local newspaper, TV sta­tion, congressman, police department or courthouse. 
It beats sitting in a stuffy classroom or flipping burgers for the summer. And a truly cool internship might lead to an even cool­er job after graduation and end your burg­er-flipping days forever. • 
Afew hours on lhe ln1erne1 will reveal literallv thousands of internship opporrunilies. Trv these silos: 
www.rsinternships.com internshipprograms.com 4internships.com summerjobs.com futurecollegegrads.com coolworks.com resortinternconnection.com 
Above: The New York Yankees share their 1999 World Championship champagne with David Letterman. (AP Photo/HO, Alan Singer) 

6 steamtunnels.net 
+ 

Salarv Comparison: the Big 12 
Head Football Coach President Average Professor 
Texas Tech 
$250,000 $236,000 $79,900 
Texas 
$201,200 $311,000 $89,400 
Texas A&M 
$301,200 $250,000 $80,500 
Nebraska 
$209,250 $209,780 $78,200 
Oklahoma 
$175,000 $216,522 $77,900 
Kansas State 
$190,000 $193,572 $66,900 
Colorado 
$154,500 $285,000 $74,400 
Missouri 
$180,400 $204,540 $79,000 
Iowa State 
$158,360 $195,000 $83,200 
Kansas 
$122,548 $207,489 $74,200 
Oklahoma State 
$137,000 $200,000 $70,500 
Texas A&M football coach Texas A&M University

Baylor 
Unavailable* $239,922 $77,300 
R.C. Slocum. President Ray Bowen. 

*Baylor officials declined to disclose coaching salaries 

steamtunnels.net 7 


r 
i . # ¥ j . j ¥ .. _. . F . ji ,-# ji .,...--..---,,-r -••:•.
••. 

Former Afghan Whigs leader has anew sound-and anew outlook. 
reg Dolli Reinvents Himself 
The Twilight Singers 
Twilight as played by the Twilight Singers 
(Columbia) By johnny Walker (Black) 
When he rang the bell with 1993's classic Gentlemen, black-clad Greg Dulli of Ohio's Afghan Whigs created a "Leonard Cohen on testosterone" persona. He was the streetwise tough guy tormented by both the opposite sex and by the sensitive artiste within. This stance worked exquisitely for a few years, but after the searing post­Gentlemen effort Black 
iove, Dulli found his black romantic persona eating him alive, turn­
. ing him to heroin and assorted other i painkillers for comfort. Finally stabilized by a Zoloft regimen, the singer-songwriter responded by rein-
The Reisman Watch 
Steamtunnels Profiles the Reisman Trophy Contenders. 
Im 1mmm ii (1] j)j 11 itil 
Position: RB 
. 

Class: Senior Height: 5'11" Weight: 217 Hometown: Waco, TX 
"LT' was a first-team All-America selection 
by Athlon, Playboy, Football News, The 
Sporting News, Texas Football, Blue Ribbon, 
Street and Smith, and Preview Sports. 
Tomlinson has led the Horned Frogs to two 
consecutive bowl victories, and they show 
no signs of letting up this season. They are 
currently ranked tenth in the nation and 
are undefeated. -ABaldwin 
1999 stats 
• Rushed for 1850 yards on 268 carries 
• Averaged 6.9 yards per carry i •18 TDs 
~ 

last Chancel Cast vour Reisman Vote at steamtunnels.net 
8 steamtunnels.net 
laDainian Tomlinson might be the most explosive running back in college football today. Tomlinson owns the NCAA Division-I 
single game rushing record, which he set on November 20, 1999 against UTEP. when he ran for 406 yards on 43 carries. 

venting himself on the Whigs's 1998's funk­soul departure 7965, eschewing the tor­tured artist character for a more loose-fit­ting soul-man guise. The critics raved, but, predictably the fans frowned. Many demanded the old, depressed Dulli back. 
The disgruntled faction of Whigites just might be placated by Dulli's latest effort, Twilight as Played by the Twilight Singers. Essentially a collaboration with 
sometime Whig key­
boardist and Howlin' 
Maggie frontman 
Harold "Happy" 
Chichester, The Twilight 
Singers are half in love 
with an easeful death, 
and at home in the 
encroaching darkness 
the Whigs against. 
Here, the usual dramatic emotional catharsis found in the best Whigs songs is replaced by a nighttime electro-glide: silky R&B beats tinged with contemporary drum 'n' bass and trip-hop touches. Even more of a departure from the Whigs sound is "That's Just How That Bird Sings," which finds Chichester, Dulli and Shawn Smith emoting prettily like a streetwise version of Crosby, Stills and Nash over a gently strummed acoustic guitar. The three also team up again on "Clyde," a slinky, sinister number driven by a loping funk beat. 
Fans of Dulli's more Cohen-like, tortured poet side will find plenty to mull over here. "King Only" finds him admitting that "I fell far enough to touch the hand of Lucifer," while in "Last Temptation" he admonishes a lover, "Every time I think of you I get the same old sinking feeling." 
On Twilight as Played by the Twilight Singers, Dulli achieves artistic growth through a reconciliation of opposites, yoking dark and light, good and evil, God and Satan together in an effort to heal his fractured psyche. It all comes together on the anthemic closer "Twilight," where Dulli lyri­cally traverses the details of a dead love affair. Instead of ending in the usual fit of rage, he simply chants, "everything's gonna be alright." And, for the duration of this impressive album, everything certainly is. • 
For more about Greg Dulli, the Afghan Whigs and Twilight Singers, go to 
Steamtunnels.net and search using key­words "Greg Dulli." 

eBoolls Not Tree Books 
The digital revolution comes to literature. 
By Emile Andre 
n March, 400,000 readers bought 
Stephen King's Riding the Bullet the very first day it was available. Doesn't sound like such a big deal for America's best-selling author-right? Wrong. All 400,000 of them downloaded the electronic version. 
Many print publishers are doing elec­tronic editions as well as hardcover paper­back and audio books. Not every book is available in eBook format yet-but that day is not far off. 
The eBook phenomenon began in the '70s, with Project Gutenberg (gutenberg.net) an early effort to make the classics available electronically. Other attempts to make the classics available online include the MIT site dedicated to Shakespeare (http://tech-two.mit.edu/ Shakespeare). When dedicated eBook devices like the Rocket eBook Reader and SoftBook Reader came out in late 1998, it inspired publishers to make thousands of titles available. And with software like ActiveSync and Microsoft Reader, which make eBooks available for handheld devices, eBooks are now widely available for personal digital assistants. 
One sign that eBooks have made it in a big way is a new prize-$100,000, award­ed at the Frankfurt Book Fair for the first time this year for the best book published only in eBook format. 
Like most of the digital world, eBooks are more widely available for PCs than for Macs. The industry is troubled by a lack of standards as well: with almost a dozen dif­ferent file formats, some compatible with some devices, some with others. 
EBooks range from about $2 to $25. Some eBooks are sold with Softlock, soft­ware that lets you preview before you buy. You can download them or buy the CD­ROM-downloads usually cost a little less. 
A little browsing of some eBook links will give you an idea of what's available on line. Check out some of the sites in the box at right to get started. • 
For more about eBooks go to 
Steamtunnels.net and search using 
keyword .. eBook." 
Handhelds and eBooks Use vour PDA to read books on the road. 
Since you can download a book to your hard drive, you can move that file over 
If size matters to you, two slimmed down versions are the Handspring Visor Deluxe ($249) and the Palm Ille (starts at $129; HotSync soft­ware is extra). Most users like the Palm Ill 
links 
for the price. As an eBook device, it's just a starter kit. The Visor Deluxe costs a bit more, but has lots more memory. Unfortunately, we did not receive the HP Jornada 545 in time for review. It lists for 
$499, and uses Microsoft Reader for its eBook downloads, and looks like it's 
loaded with options.

to your Personal Digital Assistant (PDA) as well. We tried out a few hand­held devices to see how well they worked. 
The Cassiopeia EM­500 ($499) is a snazzy looking box that down­loads books using ActiveSync software. It comes with only a couple of fairy tales pre­installed, but it's easy to read and use. The screen is large, and adjustable a million ways to Sunday. Best of all, it feels good and looks sharp. 

Aiming for the top of the market, for the real hardcore eBook users, are the Gemstar eBook ($299-$699)and the Franklin eBookman ($129­$229), both of which will be released this fall. They're dedicated devices for reading eBooks, and can play MP3s as well (the Gemstar is a relaunch of the old Rocket eBook, which was pulled off the market earlier this year). 
These will be the Jaguars of the eBook world, with built­in dictionaries, loads of 
titles as part of the original package and enough memory to store 20 books (upgradable to 150). Into eBooks? Make sure one of these babies is on your holiday wish list. • 

Sites to get vou started with electronic reading. 
There's a bunch of great sites serving the ebook community. Here's a few to start with: eBookconnections.com has a basic primer to what eBooks are, and how to find them. This is also the place to find out about new releases, with monthly best­seller lists and hot links to other eBook sites. Runningriver.com offers selections from ,::,:------­several authors (eBook iiiif.¥:"ff=--;-: I.a and traditional). It also . ii~&'S" !It carries breaking eBook ~ -­
news and a free newsletter. 
J,..V,:'.'_ 
e,eenm ....s=v~ 
Justviews.com is a 
....... 
clearinghouse for all
=--~-­
eBooks-go here to find out what's available. The major categories are sci­ence fiction, romance and
. 
thrillers-the nonfiction 

­
books are almost nonex­istent. The site does have interviews with authors, bias and lots of new releases. 
EBookNet.com has lots of titles, and a chat room for folks to compare notes on the various eBook devices (see box above). Also has good advice for newcom­ers to the electronic publishing world. 
Scribesworld.com/reviews/ has short reviews of lots of different eBook genres, 
fict~on a~d non-Lt _ --~~"' p fiction alike. · Good place to go to see if you 1-=-­really want to lr..::z.t.t:::-:-""§!:r;-r¦ buy something. ---~----­

Peanutpress.com is a site dedicated to 
eBooks for handheld devices. Lots of mag­azines, tons of -·--·­newspapers and, of '-' ....., --·-· --....... course, eBooks. I :."~=""":a=-·=;;:::;=:= i 
Many sites 1:::..-=:-::::=--=--·-· offer eBooks for sale. Start here: 

Cyberread.com, bn.com, ebookshoppe.com, wordwrangler.com, amazon.com and electronicbookseller.com. 
steamtunnels.net 9 


visit steamtunnels.net for Hnks to ;di these sites and more. 

purchase many more gadgets than necessary, so fix yourself a budget before logging on. 
Volumebuy (wlumebuy.com) offers three types of group purchase discounts, and each item in their catalog falls into one category. The first option is a time power pool, where there are several time periods with fixed 
prices. The 
-
..

~ 
longer you wait, 


the less you pay because the pro­gram allows 


Evervone's Doino 11 

Group Shopping: Lowers Prices, Raises Credit Card Bills. 
By Tamar Maor 
Everyone looks for deals when shopping. Instead of searching through the paper for sales, join the new craze of group shopping to save yourself some cash. These programs work by having people join together online to buy a product. The more people who buy, the lower the price drops (within reason). Essentially you get a wholesale price for buy­ing one item. The most popular of these programs is Mercata.com (mercata.com), where you can buy anything from 
electronics to hiking 

drops to a certain 
and camping equip­
level, or you can be 
ment. Mercata offers a 
notified by e-mail so 
great feature where 
you can make the 
you can reserve a 
decision then. Being 
product and it will 
notified is convenient because it gives you a 
automatically pur­
little more time to decide if you'd rather spend 
chase it if the price 
that money on an evening at the bar, or per­
drops to whatever you 
haps it's already spent. 
specify. Browsing this 
If none of these sites offer what you 
site will lead you to 
want, direct your browser to Zwirl.com 
Volumebuy more time to receive orders and get a greater volume dis­count. The second 

option is flex power, where the price drops as more people enter the group at any stage of the sale. The third-group power pools-work only if the specified amount of people purchase the item; then everyone receives the product. All three styles of discount offer lower prices than MSRP, however cross-checking other sites is a good idea before tying yourself down. 
Mobshop (mobshop.com) has a similar selection as Mercata, but offers some unique features that might make it a superior site to some. Mobshop is offering free shipping in the U.S., so if you're purchasing something rather large it could be beneficial for you to pay more 
but not pay for ship­ping. They also have an excellent notifica­tion program. You can either reserve a spot if the price 

(zwirl.com). It works on a different concept: Groups of buyers interested in the same sort of product band together. Sellers look at the specifications of each group's request, and make them an offer based on the amount of people in the group. joining a group allows you 
to discuss the 
product with 
other members, 
look at product 
reviews, and view 

.... _.. ,__ ,. ___ -" 11'"" suggested helpful
·----..­
links. If a group 
for the product you're looking for doesn't exist, you can create one on your own, perhaps other people will join and a seller will make an offer. If no one joins your group, try pricewatch.com to find a low price on the product. 
Group buying offers some great deals for mainstream products. When looking to buy something from one of these sites, always compare the price they are offering to other general stores on the web. Many times the "great price" group buying list is not so great, and you can find a much better deal elsewhere. • 
1(1:M~~i:tl 
Stvleshop 
stvleshop.com 
Are you a fashion diva, or the queen of finding the best deals around? Either way, check out styleshop.com before your next mall trip. It gives you the latest information on the coolest brands and discounts at your favorite stores. Head-to­toe articles on where the latest trends are going, and super search capabilities will keep you ahead of the fashion crowd. EFeick 
Usability: A-Content: A­

-·-•--!~ 


Crossrocket crossrocket.com 
Looking for latest quarterpipe contest coverage, rookie snowboarder info, or xtreme sport gos­sip? Check out crossrocket's site, where you can find all this and cool boarder movie trailers, pho­tos, and a couple of interesting quotes from ... Eminem? Well, if you're feeling frisky and particularly amoral, you can make bets with the Snowboard Bookie and compare notes world­wide or just with your friends. Adrenaline Theater, the folks behind this site, know what they're doing. YTabi Usability: A-Content: B 
SweetSport.Com sweetsport.com 
All you soccer fanatics out there take a breather and listen up: This is a site that you'll want to browse. Ever wanted to ask a pro soccer player for advice or chat with them about what it's like to play professional soccer? You can do it at sweetsport.com. While surfing sweetsport, ask a pro or coach for help. Players who haunt the site include Mark Chung, Robin Fraser and Tony Sanneh. BKeith Content: A Usability: B+ 

10 steamtunnels.net 

Extreme Mountain Biking Extreme.nas.net 
For of the most comprehensive mountain biking sites out there, point your browser to extreme.nas.net. Everything you need to know or even want to know about the sport is here. Wanna buy a new bike or maybe even sell one? You can do it here. Also find articles and reviews on bikes and manufacturers. Extreme.nas.net even has a section where avid bikers can post their worst crashes...even the pies! Gnarly, huh? Finding new single-track treks across the country is a breeze with their detailed trail search feature. 
BKeith 
Content: A-Usability: B+ 

Game Spot Zdnet.com/gamespot 
GameSpot.com has been popular among hard­core gamers since its launch on the web. After a recent acquisition/merger with growing online giant ZDNet, Gamespot has maintained its place among the best video game sites the Internet has to offer. You would be hard pressed to find a site with more reviews, previews, hints, cheats, and features. The site is also a great place to find downloadable patches and up to date news from the gaming universe. }Lowenthal Content: A-Usability: A­
1: i¾ ,, ~ i: ,,,:i11:lJ,\i ii1• 
1001 Beautv Secrets 1001beautvsecrets.com 
If you're looking for a new lifestyle-or just a new look-this should be your first stop. The site is divided into four sections: alternative health, nutrition, fitness, and beauty. Each cate­gory has tips and articles along with links for buying books and health and beauty products. 1001 beautysecrets.com will surely have you prac­ticing yoga, eating bok choy, and taking daily bee pollen supplements after one visit. TMaor Content: B+ Usability: A 

..._,.,,.._""""" 
=s.'\1:-==r=,':..-==­
=====.:.-=-.0:--­

•iW:!:t9• 
Pavme.com oavme.com 
Payme.com, a service of Paymybills.com, offers a 
simple, hassle-free way to send and receive 
money via the Internet. Pay your roommate back 
for that pizza fest without going to the ATM­
with Payme.com, you can send money to anyone 
with an email address, all for free. You can also 
use this secure service to receive payments and 
make purchases at online auctions. All the pay­
ments you send out are charged to your credit 
card, and anything that comes in goes directly 
into your bank account. Payme.com allows you to 
keep track of everything with an online filing sys­
tem. This is the future of online banking. TMaor 
Content: A-Usability: A­

-11 
Oiliiiiiiil!l 
Give money. ~ , Fas/ and FREEi 

Bepaid hepaid.com 
Ready to download yet another program onto your computer that will earn you money for watching ads? Bepaid.com is slightly different because it caters the ads to your interests and you select which ones to view based on the amount of money the advertisers are offering. Payment per ad ranges from 55 cents to $2 and they average a little less than 2 minutes in length. The only limit to the amount of time you can spend watching ads is your sanity, so go ahead and register. Warning: Bepaid.com is only avail­able for PCs, Mac users will just have to make their money working the corner. TMaor Content: B Usability: B 

FrozenFeline Frozenlellne.com 
While some people use the Internet to convey important messages to an audience that is wider and more diverse than anything that they could have possibly reached otherwise, others just use it to goof off. Such is the case at frozenfeline.com, an oddball archive of absurd senselessness. From their colorful clip art of dancing monkeys to ridiculous filmettes, 

steamtunnels.net 11 

Feedback 

Please take a few moments to fill out and return this survey. Your opinions are very important to us and will help influence the look and feel of future issues of Steamtunne/s. The first 50 respondents will receive a free Steamtunnels T-Shirt. Thanks! 
ABOUT STEAMTUNNELS MAGAZINE 
1
. How many issues of Steamtunnels magazine have you read or looked at in the last two months? D One D Two D Three D Four D Five D Six D Seven D Eight+ D None If none, please proceed to question 10. 

2. 
How did you obtain your copy (copies) of Steamtunnels magazine? D Through my college newspaper D From someone else D Other (please specify) 


3. 
How many other people have read or looked at your copy (copies) of Steamtunnels magazine? D One D Two D Three D Four+ D None 

4. 
Who else has read your copy (copies) of Steamtunnels maga­zine? (Please check all that apply.) 


. Classmates . Friends other than classmates D Family members D Other (please specify) _________ 
5. On average, how much time do you spend reading an issue of Steamtunnels magazine? D 1-5 minutes D 6-15 minutes D 16-30 minutes 
. 31 minutes -1 hour . 1 or more hours 
6. About how many times do you reread or go back to your copies of Steamtunnels magazine? 
. One . Two . Three . Four . Five+ . none 
7. Please tell us if you agree or disagree with the following state­ments about Steamtunnels magazine: 
Agree Disagree The articles are interesting 
. . 
Steamtunnels contains useful information 
. . 
The design/layout is attractive 
. . 
I have learned something new by reading Steamtunnels 
. . 
I plan on reading future issues of Steamtunnels 
. . 
Steamtunnels is worth saving for future reference 
. . 
8. How would you rate Steamtunnels magazine overall? D Excellent . Very good O Good O Average O Poor 
9. The regular sections of Steamtunnels are listed below. Please check if you are interested or not interested in the section. 
Interested Not interested Personality profiles O 0 Music reviews 
. . 
Web site reviews 
. . 
Gadget guides 
. . 
First Time Buyer's Guides 
. . 
Gaming articles 
. . 
ABOUT STEAMTUNNELS.NET 
10. Are you aware of the web site www.steamtunnels.net? 
D Yes D No 
If no, please proceed to question 13. 
11. How many times have you visited www.steamtunnels.net in the past month? D Once D Twice D Three Times D Four to six times D Six times or more D None 
12. Please indicate whether you are likely or unlikely to use the fol­
lowing sections of steamtunnels.net: 
Likely Unlikely Guides 
. . 

Campus Photos 
. . 

Restaurant Guide 
. . 

Steamtunnels Radio 
. . 

Local links 
. . 

Current magazine issue 
. . 

Back magazine issues 
. . 

ABOUT YOU 
13. What College/University do you attend? 
14. Are you a: D Freshman D Sophomore D Junior D Senior 0 Graduate Student D Professor, faculty or staff D Other (please specify): _______ 
15. Are you: D Male D Female 
OPTIONAL 
The first 50 respondents will receive a free Steamtunnels T-shirt. If you would like to be eligible, please supply the following information. 
Name: ______________________ 
Address: _____________________ 
City: ___________ State: __ Zip: 
Email: ______________________ 
Please mail to: 
Steamtunnels Survey Steamtunnels Magazine 220 Boylston Street, Suite 302 Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 
Or fax to: 
617-964-5065 







