
Rockin' Stepan 
Leap Day and Y2K 
Tuesday
Check oul a preview ofWednesday's 
Few problems are expected, but Leap 

concert featuring rock groups 
!Jay has caused some Y2K concerns.

Vertical Horizon and Stoke 9. 
FEBRUARY 29, 
News . page 7

Scene . page 10-11 
2000 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XX.XIII NO. 93 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Class elections yield two winners, a run-off and a revote 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Wrlrer 
VVhile Monday's class council primary elertions did not feature anv cam­paign or procedural viola­tions on the part of the candidates. a production crrnr in the ballots used for thr class of 200'.~ con­test markPd another con­flirt in a recent string of controvPrsial student gov­ernnwnt elections. 
According to Elections Committee member Amanda Doviclio. the name of one tirkct was run twice on one-sixth of all 2003 ballots. In turn. one tirket was omitted from the flawed ballots. Du1; to the error, all results for this elections are null and void. Dovidio said. 
Judiriai Counril presi­dent Kelly Folks said the freshmen will recast their votes todav. 
"The times will be the same, 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 5 to 7 p.m. Freshmen can vote in their dorms," Folks said. 
But some worry that a revote today will not prompt a high voter turnout. 
"I fear that given the state of student govern­
ment elections recently, som(' people may be dis­couraged from turning out. This is the third mis­take in throe 0lections." said Matt Smith. the presi­dential candidate on the omitted ticket. 
Smith noted that this balloting misprint came in the face of two otl1er stu­dPnt governnwnt contro­versies surrounding the student body presidential elections at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 
Folks, however, said today's vote should garner just as much support as the original. She and other election committee mem­bers took steps Monday night to ensure a success­ful election today. 
"We've left voice mails with all the hall rectors asking them to get the word out that there is a revote today.' I'm sure we'll get a good turn out," Folks said. 
Although they regret the conflict in the 2003 elec­tion, both Folks and Dovidio are pleased with the manner in which the other elections ran. 
The 2002 contest yielded a winning ticket. Carrying nearly 66 percent of his class' vote, Jonathan Jorissen was elected presi­dent for the 2000-01 term. 


Jorissen's running 
ND Elections

mates were vice presi­dent Mary Dunleavy, 
Class of 2001 

secretary Marcella Nurse and treasurer Tavlor McWilliams. 
Off-Campus 

..·our primary goal is to create a mini-abroad 

Winners program. It's for those Amy Mathews juniors who don't want Nicole Benjamin (52. 9%) 
to go away for an entire semester. Instead, they 
Jorissen, Dunleary, Nurse, McWilliams (65. 9%) 

see ELECTIONS/page 4 MANDI POWELUThe Observer 



Nancy Fallon, editor of Saint Mary's Courier, dies unexpectedly 
long-winded professional and per­"The magazine was like our By NOREEN GILLESPIE sonal relationship. mutual brainchild," Manier said. Associate News Ediror "After meeting with her about "The magazine truly soared under 
freelancing, I wrote on my calendar, her leadership. She showed not only 
Nancy Fallon. three-year editor of 'great writer, amazing woman. vision, but a meticulous attention to lh<' Saint Mary's alumnae magazine Definitely call,'" M;rnif'r remAm­detail." Courier. died Wednesday after a . bered. Fallon was born Oct. 28, 1955, in heart attack. She was 45 years old. During her tenure at Saint Mary's, Oklahoma City, Okla. She earned a 
Fallon was watching hrr daughtrr Fallon ext1rnded her contributions barhelor's degree from Eastern Clare. age 11, participate in the beyond the Courier's office. She col­Kentucky University and holds a CaLholic Diocese spelling bee at !Ioly laborated with master's degree CrflSS School in South Bend when development in English the apparent heart attack struck. on writing Literature from
"Nancy was an extremely
!<allon began as a freelance writer projects and the University of for Courier in 1989, where she also wrote a bright and talented, very Virginia. During assumed the editor position eight video script for kind person. She contributed her career she years later. She also worked as a the College. taught at Lees­
a lot to Saint Mary's. She
freelance writer for Notre Dame "Nancy was Mc Rae College 
Magazine. an extremely was our voice. " in Banner Elk, Maureen Manier. then editor of bright and tal­N.C, and at Courier. was immediately ented, very Notre Dame. In
Barb Henry
impressed with Fallon. kind person," 1981, she mar­
director of Alumnae Relations
"I knetv instantly that she was said • Barb ried Stephen someone I wanted to work with," Henry, direc-Fallon, an asso­Manier said. "Shr was a quiet, even tor of alumna!' ciate professor unassuming woman when you met relations. "She contributed a lot to in the Program of Liberal Studies at her, but in the course of our first Saint l\lary's. She wa.:; our voice . ., Notre Dame. meeting I could tell she possessed Fallon rPvamped the Courier dur­Fallon also founded and taught tremendous intelligence and ing her tenure in the position, envi­the Junior Great Books program at insight." sioning a new design for the maga­Iloly Cross School in South Bend. 
The first impression Fallon made zine and greater attention to detail She was a longtime Yolunteer of St. would be one that would start a in the publication. Joseph Soup Kitchen in South Bend. 

Girls get chance to explore math, science at SMC 

By KATIE MCVOY News Writer 
Saint Mary's hosted the 10th annual Hypatia Day Saturday. 
Sponsored by the mathematics, chemistry. biol­ogy and nursing departments, Hypatia Day offers seventh-grade girls the opportunity to explore the importance of women in mathematics and the sci­ences. The event encourages girls' interests in math and science. 
"At this age they're very excited about math and science," said Colleen Hoover, who has run the event for three years. "In the high school years. there is a big drop in interest and now is the time to make a strong statement saying ·yes, you should take the hardest classes you can, and yes, you should work to succeed."' 
This year's Hypatia Day had record success with 125 girls and 140 parents attended. Teachers recommended each girl because of her interest and ability in mathematics and science. 
The day began with keynote speaker Tanya Ryskind. who has been a part of Hypatia Day for the past several years. Ryskind, a past counselor 
see HYPATIA/page 6 page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, February 29, 2000 


INSIDE COLUMN 



Things could 
be -worse 

I had a lot of homework this weekend, and I took advantage of every opportunity present­ed to me to complain about it. 
I whined to my parents over the phone. l 

grumbled to my friends  
here at Notre Dame. l  
griped to my friends at  Erin LaRuffa  
home through AOL Instant  
Messenger. I was so wor­ 
ried that I would never be  copy editor  
able to finish everything. I  

convinced myself that I was going to fail my theology and economics tests, not to mention every other assignment I would ever have in the fl')St of my years at Notre Dame. I felt quite sorry for myself as my hands pecked away at my computer's keyboard for hours. 
But then I got a reality check. 

Sunday night. I heard about a sophomore from Zahm Hall who was recently diagnosed with leukemia. He had been spending the semester in Washington, D.C., but had to return home for lreatment. Later, I was reminded about a freshman who is in the hospital fighting a serious L:ase of pneumonia. I have never met that particular freshman and I don't know the sophomore very we.II. But I am sure these two students did not spend much of their weekend stressing over a potentially low grade. I realized that I should feel priviledged to have nothing more serious to worry about than not having a 4.0 at a prestigious national university. 
I should not have needed to be reminded of this lesson. Last semester, on three different occasions, I had to hear over the telephone that my mom had been hospitalized. Spending time talking to her on the phone everyday to cheer her up was more important than perfect grades. Her recovery was more crucial than my GPA. But my mom's health has improved and she has been able to return to work. And so I got wrapped up in myself again. 
No one ever really knows when a friend or a family member will become ill, or even worse, die. Why wait for something bad to happen to show those closest to us what they mean to us? 
Instead of complaining to my friends and family about having a lot of work, I should have had more pleasant conversations with them and asked them how they were. I should have thanked my parents for giving me the opportunity to study at a school I love. I should have been grateful that I am receiv­ing a wonderful education and that I have wonderful friends who put up with me even when I complain. 
So the next time that you are worried about your grades, remember that tomorrow you or someone you love could end up in a hospital bed. Try to remember that there are people in this world who are not as fortunate as you. Enjoy the opportunities you have as a student here. Treat the people in your life a little bet­ter. Enjoy the time you have with those peo­ple. Remember that there is more to life than your GPA. 
The ,,iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Laura Rompf Emmrn Malloy Erin LaRuffa Jenn Zacmski Helena Rayam Graphics 
Spons Mandi Powell Kathleen O'Brien 
Production Viewpoint 
Mike Connolly 
A.J. Boyd Lab Tech Job Turner 

Th, Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhmugh Frid,y except during ex1m a.nd vacacion periods. The Ohscrva is a mernher of rhe Associated Pn:!is. AlI reproduction rights J.re raene<l. 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK  
"/ hope in 1 o years when I return to Saint Mary's, I will see more diversity, including in the gla.ss case that holds the photographs ofthe Board ofTrustees.,, Manuela Hernandez Saint Mary's senior  "ft was, quite honestly, a blur." Jonathon Pentzien senior, on his Bengal Bouts fight last Friday  "It's time to begin the journey toward everything Notre Dame and her students can and will be. " Brian O'Donoghue student body president­elect, on the Student Senate's denial of the Osborn/Donahey appeal  "Ninet11.-six percent ofthe Jllms seen in America are made in America . ... It's a tremendous depriva­tion for American chil­dren to see the world in their own eyes." Luciana Castellina presidente commisione of Italy, on the problem of cuHural diversity in America  

Compiled /rum U-Wire reports 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Coca-Cola head promotes U. Florida partnership 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 
Foundation in December 1999. 
Coca-Cola may make a lot of money The two-year program, the first of as the onlv soft drink distributor at its kind for the Coca-Cola Foundation. the University of Florida, but the will provide international internships president of Coca-Cola USA told 300 to UF graduate and professional stu­people Friday that anyone who deals dents to assist with projects in Africa with his company should benefit in and Latin and Central America. The
UF recently amended and expand­
return. program may be a model for future
ed its business agreement with Coca­
"We partner with this school so that programs at other universities. 
Cola, making the company the sole
[students] may go from this place and Cooper said the program will
soft drink distributor campus-wide
do outstanding things," Ralph Cooper "enable Florida students to make a
through August 2005. 
said. "That right there ought to be real difference in developing coun­
Foundation spokesman Chris
enough for all ofus." tries."
Brazda said the relationship will pro­
Cooper gave the keynote address at "We're especially proud to be a
vide UF with resources to fulfill many
the kick-off for UF's annual partner of the university in its busi­
needs across campus, including class­
Corporate Leaders Weekend, which ness -the business of education," he 
room renovations. He said about 70
this year coincided with the said.
percent of UF's budget is funded by
University of Florida Foundation's Cooper said his company also bene­
private sources. 
quarterly board meeting. Foundation fits from the esteem of being associat­
Cooper also discussed UF's involve­
officials said the weekend was a ed with UF, builds a better business 
m ent with the Coca-Cola World
chance to strengthen existing corpo­relationship with its clients and helps
Citizenship Program, which was cre­
rate relationships and encourage new to create a better work force of col­
ated by UF and the Coca-Cola 
ones. lege graduates. 
Columbia passes anti-violence policy 
NEW YORK 
After two years of review and a year of con­tentious debate, the Columbia University Senate passed all five of the resolutions that made up the proposed Sexual Misconduct Policy last Friday. Anti­violence activists hailed the policy as the best in America and a major victory for students. Some 200 student activists, many of them holding signs and wearing red tape, attended the meeting and more senators showed up than have at any meeting in the past two years. Their publicity paid off, as local and national media came out to the meeting and inter­viewed activist leaders. The first four resolutions, which establish policies for student education, the availability of information on the new policy, the training of the deans who will carry out the discipli­nary procedures, the hiring of a new coordinator for the whole policy and the creation of oversight com­mittees, were unanimously passed. The fifth resolu­tion, which dealt with issues of due process for the accused passed with near-unanimous support. 
UC Davis, UCLA unions approve strike 
LOS ANGELES 
As the end of the quarter and final exams approach, unions representing academic student employees. at the UCLA and UC Davis announced Saturday their members voted to authorize a strike. Union officials called for a strike authorization vote last Monday, con­tending that UC is negotiating in bad faith and using illegal bargaining practices. University administrators, however, said they have been bargaining in good faith and want a contract just as much as the unions do. At UCLA, 89 percent of the slightly more than 900 teach­ing assistants, readers and tutors who voted were in favor of a strike. At Davis more than 500 employees cast ballots, with 84 percent voting to strike. Elections will take place at six other UC campuses in the next week, with a decision on when a strike will occur to follow. A spokeswoman for the union at UCLA -the Student Association of Graduate Employees (SAGE) ­said the results of the votes send a message to the uni­versity. "lt clearly shows that the membership is out­raged that the university is breaking the law," said Connie Razza, a spokeswoman for SAGE, which is associated with the United Auto Workers. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Feb. 29. 

iile$-;, 
Wedn~day
l 

Thurs~ay 
A FRONTS: 
808 701

Friday. ........ 
~ ~ 

Ct 2QOO AccuWeathlll'r, inc. COlO WARM STATfONARY 
,:, 

Saturday: 

via Assooiti/00 Press
!,J'•'\:1 ~---',..,..,___ / 
Atlanta 68 52 Las Vegas 60 48 Portland 52 39 Bal1imore 55 34 Memphis 72 51 Sacramento 60 40
r:1'3~40~U ~ ~ r()
~~~ . ..: .. : .. :. ---'¥ ~ ~ Bos1on 43 34 Milwaukee 52 40 St·. Louis 69 46 
''"'' ,,,\ ., ..... '·1·"·!.. --­Showe,s T-storms Rain Flurries SMW lea Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 57 45 New York 49 35 Tampa 79 57 
Via Associated Press Gra.ohicsNet Houston 75 61 Philadelphia 54 36 Wash DC 58 40 


page 3

Tuesday, f<ebruary 29, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
make your decision, now.
All Events are free and open to the public 
Call 631 .5466 for further information 
Making Leaders for the Air Force and 
The Breaking Barriers Exhibition is generously supported 
Better Citizens for America 
,

by The E. L. Cord Foundation 
Contact Captain Klubeck at 631-~4676, or Klubeck.1@nd.edu 
..._______-----------------------------------------­





______J -----=~;;;;;=~:;;;;;;;;;=:::::;==:=..
MEN'S Women's 

BASKETBALL Ten •

IS 
vs. #9 Syracuse 9:00pm Wednesday
VARSITY SHOP


Wednesday .... 

vs. # 11 Northwestern 4:00pm 
.... 
Eck Tennis Pavilion 

Call toll free for an interview 1-877-299-9397 WWW.MarineOfficer.com 
~------------' was a memeber of the Irish Republican Army. 
THE SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 
The University of Notre Dame 

THE CELEBRATION OF CUBAN ARTS 
Tuesday February 29, 7:00 pm Film: Buena Vista Social Club Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum 
Cosponsored by The Kellogg Institute 


Thursday March 2, 4:00 pm Poetry Reading: Orlando Ricarclo Menes, Assistant professor of English, Univ. of Dayton, Ohio 
Frida . ~ Callery talk: 11Cuban A Rafael Tarrago, speciolist in l~tri Universit of 

O'Sh·•·· ·••es 
Reception fol . ng)
Cosponsored by 'fhe lnstit 



McCourt lectures on war in Northern Ireland 
SHANNON BENNETT/The Observer 
Jon Mccourt, a native of Northern Ireland, spoke last night about the ongoing struggle in his country. Mccourt has witnessed brutality in Ireland when he 
By MICHAEL DE 1A ROSA 
News Writer 
After witnessing brutality dirncted against people in his native Northern Ireland, Jon Mccourt said he believed his only choicP. was to join the Irish Kepublican Army. 
"It didn't seem like there was an option, no political options, no negotiating ... so when I got the opportunity to join the IHA, I jumped at it," Mccourt said as he lectured about the conflict in I\Jorthern Ireland with a group of 
students in the 
'This was a calculated, 
After B!oodv

Hesburgh Library 
clear, surgical murder. I Sunday, McCourt

auditorium on 
said he could no

Monday. saw it and about 600 
longer accept the

When Mccourt 
others saw it." 
word of the

was 16, he said 
British govern­

he did not believe 
ment, army or

that his home­Jon Mccourt 
polir.e. Thus, he

land's civil rights former IRA member 
movement had anything to do with him. 
Mr,Court, who had spent 13 years in a boy's home becausf, his mother could not get on a hous· ing list, said that he first realized something was wrong in Northern Ireland after seeing the 
brutality at one of the 
first Civil Rights demonstrations in Derry, Ireland. 
"These people weren't a group of radicals, but they were hosed down. kicked and beaten across a bridge." said ~cCourt, who had friends and schoolmates in the movement. 
The situation in 
A Salute to the Leaders of Tomorrow ­Air Force ROTC Cadets 
College is a time for decision Choose to become a leader 
Smart move. The whole concept of Air Force ROTC revolves around the cultivation of qualities that count for leadership. Whether you're about to start college or have already begun, it's time to 
Northern Ireland flared up again on a day known as Bloody Sunday in January 1972. 
According to McCourt. 15-year-old Joseph Mahan was the first to be shot on Bloody Sunday. Mccourt said he and a friend Jim Hay tried to help Mahan. Kay would later be shot from less than 20 feet away. At the end of the day 13 people were killed. 
"This was calculated. clear, surgi­cal murder. I saw it and about 600 others saw it." said Mr.Court. lie added that there were l 08 shots fired into the r.rowd, and the official statement said that the firing bor­
dered on reck­
less. 
entered into a 
period of int!cnse 
violence and ter­rorism. During that time, his life seemed dark and empty, Mccourt said. 
"I grew up with nuns. I knew a lot about religion but not about faith. It was all empty; we were growing weary," he said. 
It was this period in McCourl's life that he turned away from terrorism and began to speak about bringing the community together. McCourt said that murals began going up, programs wen, started to help dan­gcrou s youths and feelings of progress began to emerge. The Catholic-, and Protestant communi­ties were encouraged to work together. Slowly things began to change. and the community came closer together, said Mr.Court. 




page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 29, 2000 

Graduate student's film featured on web 
Special to The Observer 
"Moment." a short film by Notre Dame graduate student Ryan LuHerbarh. is now fea­tured on the World Wide Web at Shortbuzz: The Best Short Films Online. 
"Moment" first gained recognisiton by winning "Best of Show" at the 1999 Hometown Cinema Film Festival in Bloomington. 
Indiana. 
Using an original special effect to zoom in and oul, "Moment" explores the intri­cate happenings on a rity street frozen in an instant in time. 
Lutterbach wrote, directed, produced and was the cine­matographer on Urn project. 
A native of Michigan City, Ind., Lutterbach is a 1998 Notre Dame graduate and cur­rent I\IBA student. 



Italian professor wins translation award 
Special to The Observer 
John Welle, associate pro­fessor of Italian at Notre Dame and the poet Huth Feldman have been selected to receive the 1 999 Raiziss/de Palchi Book Prize from the Academy of American Poets for their translation of Andrea Zannotto's work. "Peasants Wake for Fellini's Casanova and Other Poems." 
The 55000 prize is awarded every other year for a transla­tion into English of' a signifi­cant work of Italian poetry. 
Amemcber of the Notre namfl faculty since 198:{, Welle specializes in 19th and 20th ccnturv Italian litera­turn, the hislorv of Italian rin­ema and translation studies. 
He is the author of "The Poetry of Andrea Zanzotto" and the editor or "Italian Film 
and  Literature:  Annali  
d'ltalianistica."  
Be is  at work  on  a  book  

about literary intellectuals and film history. 

Saferide to start after spring break 
By HELENA RAYAM 
News Writer 
SafeHide will once again attempt to provide et'fic:ieni transportation to Notrn Oame students with its new coordina­tor Dave Powers. 
"It's going 'to be a lot more reliable and run more smooth­ly," said PowPrs, whose duties will include managing SafeHide's advertising and scheduling. 
Powers will also hire and train 10 to 15 drivers and navi­gators, and he said that he would seek students who are responsible for those positions. 
In the past, SafeRide was a volunteer-based service. Saf0.1Ride had problems with students signing up to work a shift and not actually coming to work. 
Although many students did volunteer to work frir SafeBidc, 


Elections 
continued from page 1 
can go abroad for the dura­tion of fall break," Jorissen said. He also aims to increase class unity through spiritual activities sur,h as class mass-the program did not gcnnrate the interest that was cxpectnd lrncause students who would use SafcHide could not predict when it would have drivers. 
Student government has reevaluated Saf'eHidn and decided to make some changes. 
"Now they'rn paying," said Powers, adding that this is the incentive for students to work on Friday and Saturday nights for SafeRide. 
Chairman of the Student Senate's Ad floe Committefi for Transportation, Amy Szestak, said that being employed will make drivers and navigators more responsible. 
"We wou!d offer [SafeHideJ us a service and students would call, but SafeRide wasn't run­ning because there were no students lo drive that night," said Szestak. "If it is someono's job, they will be more roliable." 
SafeRido will have one van and a cellular phone. whir,h 
cs. 
No 2002 tickct carried thc 
simple majority of' tho class' 
vote Monday. A run-off' elec­
tion between the two tickets 
that received (he most votes is 
scheduled for Thursday. 
Competing in the run-off will 
be the Rachel Gernerd ticket, 
which won 45.6 percent of 
students can call in order to get rides from off-campus locations to return to Notre Dame. The navigators will answer the phone and can switch jobs with the driver throughout the night. 
The goal of Safenide remains to provide a transportation ser­vke l'or Notre Dame students as a means to avoid drinking and driving. 
"We do target people that have been at drinking estab­lishments and who are not in a condition to drive," said Szestak. "It's not exclusively for intoxkatcd people. although a large portion of thc students who use SafeHide have been drinking." 
SafeHide will start operating on Friday and Saturday from 
9:30 p.rn. to 2:30 a.m. the week after spring break. If thcnci is murh interest, SafcHide will look into getting additional vans or extending days or hours next year. 
the primary vote. and the Elliot Nelson ticket, which captured 27.9 percent of the vote. 
The off-campus co-presi­dents race produced a win­ning tir.ket of Amy Matthews and Nicole Benjamin, who received 53 percent of yester­day's vote. 





Topping Pizza 
every tuesday 
271-0300 
Call today and 11 am-2am sun-thurs mention this ad!! 11am-Jam fri-sat 




orld 
I ¦ 


Tuesday, February 29, 2000 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Police arrest 185 protesters in front of Supreme Court 
WASHlNGTON 

/\hout ·t 85 people were arrested outside the Supreme Court building and another 164 were arrnstnd in San Francisco during protests Monday seeking a new trial for a man sentenced to death for killing a Philadelphia police ot'ficflr. Supreme Court and city police officers led away protesters who sat in the street or jumped a barrier and went onto the plaza in front of the court building. Supreme Court police officers arrested 24 people, and city police arrested about 160. The demonstration came while the nation's highest court took the bench to issue orders and hear arguments in cases. It was not known whether the justices knnw of thfl protnst. San Francisco police said they arrest­ed lo4 protosters who blocked the sidewalk in front of the federal appPals court building in that city. 
Tijuana police suspect Calif. SUV used in chief's murder 
TIJUANA, Mexico 

In this violent border town where killings occur daily, Tijuana police tried to resolve one more case Monday: the death of their popular police chief, whose car was riddled with bul­lets on a busy highway. Investigators hope a gray Cherokee sports utility vehicle with California license plates can offer more clues in Sunday's killing of Alfredo de la Torre Marquez. Three bullet shells were found in the vehicle, suggesting this could have been the vehicle used by the attackers, state Attorney General Juan Manuel Salazar said. The Cherokee was believed to be one of three vehicles used in the attack on a busy, six-lane divided highway in the northern edge of Tijuana, just across the border from San Diego. 
Senegal's election results delayed, run-off pending 
DAKAR, Senegal 

Senegal's incumbent president and his main rival appeared headed for a run-off election Monday. with partial returns showing both candidates had failed to win an outright majority in the country's presidential election, a senior electoral official said. A provisional ballot count showed President Abdou Diouf and veteran opposition leader Abdoulaye Wade on top among the eight candidates who competed in the election on Sunday, said the Interior Ministry official, who spoke on condi­tion of anonymity. He said each failed to gain more than 50 percent of the vote. The official declined to give voting figures and said a final tally would not be available until later. 
l@ii#l@i@M/iJ.I

Dow AMEx: 
832.12 

]ONES +1.n 
Nasdaq:

+176.5 
4581.88 -8.62 


NYSE 636.50 -3.45 
S&P 500: Composite 1350.43 
Volume:

10,03.65 
~17.07 1,026,550,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 

cguau tiaa l ClllllGI s i::JWKil IIJCI 
OJU'~).L co... OR.CL -2.U -2.0050 68. 62 NIOOBO'PT COlll' ...... +D,27 +0.:;tt75 Pl.5& DILL COKPU'l'll DELI. -o.u -0 .2SOO ,1.00 llU.llINO ff~K CP IT'IC' .u.,, +0. iS!ll 2.12 C'llCO 1iYS1'1tN8 CICO --1.,s •.I.1900 130.51 AM'AJtlCJ. ONLIIR AO~ +l.67 +O .9950 ,o.,. CITXQROUP <NC C +2. o, +1. 000D &!it.DO tN'l'l:1, cOkP INT~ -0.17 -o. 8700 11l.]tl JC'OII COltF CONS -a.02 -1.6215 ,,.o, l..UCDIT CORP ~v -J. u. -l.~~00 51.00 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
AUSTRIA 


Austrian far-right Freedom Party leader Joerg Haider announced Monday that he would resign as party chief. Seated with Haider are Austrian Vice Chancellor Susanne Riess-Passer and party member Elisabeth Sickl. 


Austrian rightist leader resigns 
Associated Press  APA said Haider, who holds no post in the national government,  the new government. • The 14 other European Union  
would  stay  on  as  governor  of  members have downgraded relations  
VIENNA  Carinthia province. The move was  with Austria because of the presence  
Joerg Haider,  the  politician  seen  as  an  attempt  to  reduce  of Haider's party in the government.  
known for his anti-foreigner state­ international criticism of the new  Earlier Monday, Peter Sichrovsky,  
ments  and  past praise  of Nazi  coalition  government  between  the Freedom Party's EU representa­ 
employment policies,  resigned  Haider's rightists and the center­ tive, said Haider had mentioned step­ 
Monday  as  head of the far-right  right Austrian People's Party.  ping down over the weekend.  
Freedom Party, the Austria Press  The agency quoted party sources  "Already on Saturday, he men­ 
Agency reported.  as saying Haider will be succeeded as  tioned it in an internal party discus­ 
The agency quoted unidentified  party chief by his trusted lieutenant,  sion," Sichrovsky said. "He has  
party sources attending a  closed­ Vice  Chancellor Susanne Riess­ already achieved more than anyone  
door meeting of the group's nation­ Passer, 39.  else, and if that is his decision, then  
al leadership at a  downtown hotel.  APA said Haider told the party  we must respect it."  
Party officials would not confirm the  leadership meeting that he was step­ Despite the international furor,  
report pending a  news conference  ping down because he did not want  Haider remains popular with many  
expected later Monday.  "to stand in the way" of the work of  Austrians.  

INDONESIA 

Kissinger to aid Indonesian president 
ical and social policy. populous nation. would provide the commu­
Associated Press 

"I responded to the Kissinger was secretary nists with a foothold in the request of the president out of state under presidents Indonesian archipelago,
JAKARTA 

of friendship for the Richard Nixon and Gerald thus underminingFormer U.S. Secretary 
Indonesian people and the Ford. At the time, he was Suharto's right-wing dicta­of State Henry Kissinger importance I attach to the instrumental in shaping torship.
threw weight hehind 

Indonesian nation," U.S. foreign policy in Kissinger has denied this,
Indonesia's democratic 

Kissinger told reporters Southeast Asia. and the United States never 
and market reforms 

after a private meeting at Critics claim that, prior formally recognized the 
Monday, accepting a new the presidential palace. to Indonesia's bloody inva­Indonesian occupation,job as political adviser to The appointment sion of East Timor in 1975, which finally ended in Indonesia's president. 

appeared to be a gesture Kissinger visited Jakarta September after the East 
Calling himself a "patri­

by Wahid aimed at boost­and gave then-president Timorese voted over­otic American," Kissinger 
ing international confi­Suharto a tacit go-ahead whelmingly to break free in said he would gladly 
dence in his reform pro­for the attack. a U,N.-supervised referen­assist in the Southeast 
gram. They maintain that, in dum. But the accusations Asian nation's transition Kissinger, a Nobel Peace the aftermath of America's against Kissinger have per­to democracy, consulting laureate, said he had full humiliating defeat in sisted. On Feb, 1, officials with Indonesian President confidence in Wahid's abil­Vietnam, the Ford adminis­of University of Texas at Abdurrahman Wahid at ity to implement reforms in tration was worried that an Austin had to cancel a lec­least once a year on polit-the world's fourth most independent East Timor ture by Kissinger. 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 29, 2000 
pants had the option of making slime and silly putty as well as 

working with bulbs and batter­ies with the chemistry and continued from page I physics department. 
"I think it's very helpful to get and lawyer, currently works at teenage girls into the lab and Brookeview Montessori Sr.hoot. show them how it works," said 
The girls attended morning senior Emily Koelsch, who was and afternoon sessions of nurs­in charge of the chrmistry and ing. chemistry and physics, physics segments. "They need biology or math, to know that labs are places 
For its session, the math­where women work just as well ematics department showed the as anyone else. The hands-on versatility of the subject. The experience shows them that girls in attendance made hexa­they can do it." flex11,gons, three-sided folded However, to many of the par­papers, and origami boxes. ticipants the exposure to col­
"I think this was very impor­lege-aged women who were tant," said Cindv Traub, student excited about math and science head of the math segment. really made the day a success. "Anything you r.an do to turn "It was a real-world experi­people on to mathematics, ence," Koelsch said. "We whether it's folding paper or showed them that chemistry working in a group, is a big can be fun. Here are college­success. aged women who really love 
"There are fewer women chemistry. That is a wonderful interested in math than men," thing for girls to see." she added. "Girls do better in "The girls got to work so math at a younger age, but then closely with college women and . interest drops off. Something see how excited they are about like Hypatia Day can get them science," Hoover said. "That fired up." kind of experience is invalu­
Other Hypatia Day partici-able." 
Hypatia 
BRUNO'S 
Tues. February 29


STUDENT and 
Thurs. March 2



DINNER BUFFET 
All you can eat for $6!! 
Pizza, Pasta, Salad, and other Italian Dishes 
2610 Prairie Ave. Location 288-3320 
Can seat parties of20 or more!! 
8:30 p.m. !• Rockne 301: 
Us 

This Tuesday learn..., the eh,a,-e/4,a, .P


fi :• 

•$2 for a 45 minute beginner lesson! :$3 for a 90 minute beginner + : : advance lesson : 
........................................................... 





Got news? 1-5323 
Chemical Engineering Open House 

Engineering intents, check out the cool jobs you can have as a Chemical Engineer. Tour our high-tech labs. Talk to engineering students and faculty. 
Have some food; we start 
' 

serving at 6 p.m. 
Don't be late. 


303 Cushing Hall Tuesday, February 29 to 7:30 p.m. 
e x a m n e y o u r 0 p t o n s 

NEED CASH? 
NEW DONORS EARN $20 TODAY 
MENTION THIS AD FOR A $5.00 BONUS 
Up to $145.00 a month in 2-4 hours a week 


SERA CARE PLASMA 
234-6010 515 LINCOLNWAYWEST 


Tuesday, February 29. 2000 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Despite problellls in Japan, few expect Leap Day troubles 
Student Government Invites Student Nominations for The 1999-2000 Irish Clover Awards and the Frank O'Malley Undergraduate Teaching Award Each year Irish Clover Awards are presented to one undergraduate student and one administrator, faculty, rector, or staff member of the Notre Dame Community who have demonstrated outstanding service to the students at the University of Notre Dame. The Frank O'Malley Undergraduate Teaching Award is awarded to a member of the Faculty who has stimulated academic creativity and personal development in and outside the classroom. Letters of Nomination may be submitted to the Student Government Office, 203 Lafortune by Wednesday, March 1st . If you have questions, Please call the office at 631-7668.  

Associated Press 
In a sign of the Y2K-likfl problems that experts around the world will be watrhing for Tuesday. Leap Day thrnw off computer c-alendars at Japan's Mf'teorologiral Agenry. 
Computers at six observato­ries in Tokvo and other citiHs fail<'d to riirrer.tly recognize rch. 29. Agency spokesman lppei Egur.hi said Monday the error was quickly fixr_;d, although he did not say how it affected operations. 
Over,'lll. romputer <:onsul­tants expected a quiet transi­tion into March. despite warn­ings that computers might treat Feb. 29 as March 1. 
"This is sort of closure on the Year 2000 efforts. like the final frontier hflre," said Dale VPcd1io. research director at 

lr1sh Eyes Sffi1l1ng 
EyesM 
even 1f your v1s1on ,s perfect! 


onlyS6992 , 
perpa1T 
EJCdudmg ~qU1red f'ye e)(affi, 
ter.hnology consultant Gartner Group. 
Computers have had difficul­ties in leap years beforP. four years ago, for instance, Arizona Lottery players could not buy tickets because its computer failed to understand Leap Day. 
This year is more trouble­some because it is an excep­tion to an exc11ption. Normally, years that end in "00'' are not 
m1 worn u:;c:er ma,-:;.upervls:::;n 1:,I ,.in ,)yt: c-a,e prdesSiooaL Sharing contact ler:sErs rN!!i tiJ:.li~a<J nl!eir..1-c-rg;inh:rns whk:h may result :n OO!ious. eye he::itth probloms. Shamrock Eyes-are p-.art of tt1a: ,growing family of WUo.£y~~··· Cont;,ct Ltenst1s. · 
Eye exams available by appoinment. 
Walmart Vision Center 
conveniently located off grape road 316 Indian Ridge Rd. Mishawaka, IN 243-9714 


Walmart Vision Center 
3701 Portage Rd. South Bend, IN 243-7538 
leap years. but 2000 is because it is divisible by 400. 
Hut many of the problems were caught as Y2K experts tackled the larger Y2K risk ­the use of two digits to rnpre­sent a year, a glitch that could have thrown off computers that run the power grid, air traffic systems and traffic lights. 
Sony Corp. said older video cameras and word processors 

may fail to recognize Feb. 29, 
while Microsoft Excel 2000 
users might have problems 
computing financial bonds if 
they failed to get an update. Government and business leaders in the United States were increasingly confident as Tuesday arrivf'd around the world. "We've seen absolutely no 
impact on telecommunications 
on the far side of the globe, and we expect none here," said Joseph Tumolo, direc• tor of Bell Atlantic's busi­ness continuity planning. For all practical purposes. this week marks the end of formal Y2K monitoring. with responsibilities shift-. ing to normal maintenance teams. The Senate's Y2K advisory committee planned to release a wrapup report Tuesday and disband. In the report, obtained by The Associated Press. the committee identified more than 250 Y2K glitches in some 75 countries. It expects "continued reports of minor nuisances throughout 2000. but no major problems." Sen. Bob Bennett. R-Utah. the committee's chairman, defended the estimated $100 billion the nation spent to deal with Y2K flaws -which caused none of the widespread disrup­tions feared. "Had we not as a nation focused on this issue and come up to deal with it." Bennett said in a Senate speech, "we would have had significant problems." 

page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre D•me, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 06556 
EDITOR IN CHJEF Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR  8USINES5 MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogcro  
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Pecdlc  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughcn SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MAfty'5 EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PIIOTO EDITOR: Kcvio 0alum 
ADVERTISING MANAGFR: Bryan Lm, 

An DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Hudat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers Wm ADMINIS'l1<ATOR: Erik Kushro 
CoNTROLL£lt; Timothy Line GRAPHIC~ EDITOR, Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MA,"IAGERIGENrRAL INFO...........631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING., ...................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN Cl!IEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIA5ST. ME.................... 631-4S41 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-S323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................63 l-5303 observer.viewpoint.l@nd.edu SroRTS........................................................631-4543 observer.spom. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MAR¥'s.............................................63 1-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.ndedu foe daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 

VIEWPOINT 
O
HIE 
BSERVER 
Tuesday, February 29, 2000 


It must be a leap year! Following this column's last publication, an articlt'! contending institutionalized bigotry within the Republican Party, I received an avalanche of e­
mails that rivaled the recent great Internet hacking attacks on Amazon and eBay. Positions ran about half and half, but they did tilt slightly in dis­agreement with my 


opinions. They were typical of the Gary Caruso Notre Dame com­munity of the 
Capitol
1990s. 

Comments
Twenty-five years ago, the stu· dent body was overwhelmingly liberal­thinking and Democratic leaning, in opposition to the Vietnam War and seeking a better life full of tolerance and peaceful coexistence. Today's stu­dents are predominately conservative and Republican, a reflection of the changing times. I too am more moder­ate today, changing from the height of my liberalism. However, the diversity of the Democratic Party keeps me from wondering over to the mythical "Big Tent" Republicans have tried to sell the American public. 
Republican chairman Jim Nicholson zeroed in on the "pandering" of Vice President Al Gore and former Senator Bill Bradley who debated at the Apollo Theater in Harlem. What Nicholson sees as courting to the special interests of African Americans is in the eyes of Democrats the inclusion of those whose history in this country has been marked by discrimination. My dictionary defines "pandering" as the courting of a group that "excludes" an element of society like the practices of fundamen­talists from Bob Jones University. 
Several of the e-mails I received asked if the entire student body should be held accountable for the actions of the administration. Some went so far as to ask if Notre Dame students should be compared to students at Bob Jones since Notre Dame administrators insist on denying gay and lesbian student groups recognition, advertising and from meeting on campus. My answer is a clear and unequivocal "yes." 
When a student accepts Notre Dame, that student accepts everything that comes with the adventure in South Bend ... poor football, great women's basketball, upcoming men's basketball, parietals, exclusively single-sex dorms, a prohibition against birth control, gays, pro-choice advocacy and Satan worshipers. I can recall when students in the mid-1980s protested until the dining halls brought back Cap'n Crunch cereal. Yesterday Cap'n Crunch, today tolerance and inclusion. 
Many of my e-mails protested my contention that Republican presidential contender Texas Governor George W. Bush courted the bigoted, right-wing vote in South Carolina. Since then, Bush has publicly lamented that he could have handled the matter better. What Bush forgot was that a presiden­tial candidate is sometimes louder when he does not speak. When Bush's rhetoric did not disavow BJU policy, the symbolism suggested support for the Bob Jones bigotry against Catholics. Bush's blunder has alienated many northern voters and most of New England. 
President Clinton is a new Democrat who single-handedly revived the Democratic Party with his centrist views. His moderate stands and his inclusion of women and minorities has made the government a reflection of American society. However, 15 of his judicial nominees are stalled in the partisan Republican-led Senate. 
Yet, for the first time in many years, Democratic appointees on the bench exceed Republicans 389 to 386. According to the Alliance for Justice, the 13 Federal Circuit Courts of Appeal have 99 Democrats and 81 Republicans. Clinton is responsible for more diversity on the bench than ever before, having appointed 57 African Americans, 20 Latinos and 100 women by the close of 1999. 
But for all that, Republicans still con­trol the Federal judiciary partly because the Republican Party was a monolithic, and somewhat racist party under Ronald Reagan and George Bush. Presently, nine of the appeals courts and the U.S. Supreme Court are majority Republican. Fewer African American app1'1llate judges sit on the bench today than when Jimmy Carter left office 20 years ago. 
More than half the drcuit courts have either no African American or no Latino jurists, according to the alliance study. Despite a substantial minority population of Latinos and African Americans in the three largely south­ern circuits, only two of the 40 appeals judges are African Americans. 
Tonight John McCain and Bush square off in Virginia, Washington and North Dakota. Expect Bush to get the better of the three contests. Tomorrow, Al Gore and Bill Bradley debate in California. Thursday, the Republicans debate there. Next week, on Super Tuesday, Al Gore and George Bush will nail the lids closed on the nominations. 
When I think of a compassionate con­servative who is a leader, I think of Bill Clinton who brought his party from the left and included more women and minorities in government than presi­dents Reagan and Bush combined. When I think of government executives who get results, I think of Clinton and Al Gore, who have guided a national economy and society to the greatest prosperity in this nation's history. The reason so many governors have been able to reform programs and cut taxes is due to the robust economy and the willingness of the current administra­tion to experiment with welfare and education on the state level. 
Vice President Gore tells a great story about Republican kittens for sale. After two weeks, the owner crossed off the word "Republican" and wrote "Democratic kittens." When asked about the change, he replied, "That's because the kittens now have their eyes open." Talk about a big tent. 
Gary J. Caruso, '73, is serving in President Clinton's administration as a congressional and public affairs direc­tor and is currently assisting Vice President Gore's White House Empowerment Commission. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
weather for up•to· the minute forecasts 
advertise for policies and rates ofprim ads 
archives to search for articles published alter August 1999 rnovies/music for weekly studem reviews 
online features for spe· cial campus coverage 
about The Observer 
to meet the editors and Staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and on line by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opioion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commemaries, leners and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available IO al! readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters co the Editor must be signed and must include contact informacjon. 
Qumiom regarding Obmver polities should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMiehe/It: Kmptt. 
DID YOU DO ANY ACTION ITEMS THIS 

DILBERT 

E 
0 
!l 
•0 
@.. 
E
.. 
~ 
g
:g 
E 
0 
0 
t: 
~ 
'6 
i 
I GATHERED COSTS FOR. A STRATEGY 
WE HAD ALREADY 
DECIDED NOT TO 
USE. 

SCOTT ADAMS 
.!'." 
.; 
~ 
~ 
...
" 
"' 
. ~ 
~ 
... ~ 
"! 
:, 
" 
0 
0 
0 

"Q 
.1 
-:; 
" 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The public have an insatiable curiosity to know everything, except what is worth knowing. " 
Oscar Wilde 
author, "The Soul of Man Under Socialism" 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Tuesday, February 29, 2000 BSERVER page 9 


I admit it: I'm a 
•

morning person 
They arl' your siblings, parents. and cousins. They are your friends and your neighbors. They are your professors, your dassmatfls, and. ifyou·rn unlucky, your roommates. They are a startling minority on ca.m.pus. You may lwen be afraid of them and their "different" lifestyle. 
They am morning people, and chances 
are, you already know one. 
I'm a morning person. By morning per­
son. I mPan someone who does his or her 
best work early, who would rather get up 
early and go to bed early than get up and 
go down late. They arP the pE>ople who 
can utter the expression "Good morning!" 
and mflan it. even beforn 9 o'clock. 
Morning people arn not always delighted 
to !mar the alarm go off at 7 a.m., but 
they usually get used to the idea of being 
awn.ke within 10 or 15 minutes. And then 
they enjoy it. 
There is a special bond a.m .. ong morn­
ing people. Por one thing, we spend more 
time together. We run into each other at 
the dining hall at breakfast or at Rolfs at 

6 a.m. We can sav to each other, "Wasn't the sunrise awe­
some this morning?" We tend to have early classes together. 
We work togt~ther. I work at 8 a.m. with two other equally 
insufferable morning peoplfl. I think we get along better for 
it. We certainly do spend much time sniping at each other in 
a way that only morning people can. We chat like civilized 
people. wlrnreas non-morning people would sit in dazed, l­
ean't-believe-l'm-awake silence. 
As a morning person. I have also taken a lot of 8:30 classes; 
in fact. last semester was tlrn first semester I did not have 
one. Classes at 8:30 a.m. are great; they are ludicrously easy 
to get into, even the ones that am really good classes. I once 
took a five-person Spanish current events class that met at 
8:30. We all sat there with our cups of coffee (and yes, morn­ing people do drink coffoe -we're just like anyone else) chatting about what we'd read in the newspaper that morn­ing or about what(]ver other gossip ca.m.e to mind. This class also had the best final I've ever had to take. Professor Rojas­Anad6n invited us all over for dinner and we voluntarily stayr,d there for hours. eating and talking. The final was worth 40 percent of our grade. I got an A. 
People who just moan and roll their eyes at the thought of 
mornings are really missing out on a lot of neat stuff, like 
breakfast. I personally love breakfast. I eat it everyday, 
including Fridays before my 9:30 a.m., even when I have 
been at Heartland until 3. Breakfast is by far the most under­
appreciated meal of the day. On the Center for Social 
Concerns seminar that I attended during Christmas break. 
we wern served breakfast every morning, even the crazy 
morning we went searching for the El Paso, Texas, active 
passenger depot. The only other early-to-rise Domers break­
fasting with me were the two insulin-dependent diabetics on 
the trip who had the choice between breakfast and life­
threatening hypoglycemia. 
Speaking of hypoglycemia, March is National Nutrition 
Month. Anyone who went to kindergarten knows that break­
fast is the most nutritious way to start any day. People who 
eat breakfast do better on tests, are more productive during 
the day and eat more nutritiously than people who don't. To 
quote the American Dietetic Association, "Hunger, even 
short-term hunger you may experience if you miss breakfast, 
decreases attention span and ability to concentrate. [People] 
who eat breakfast are more alert... They are also more cre­
ative and energetic. Children who skip breakfast are more 
often tardy and absent from school than children who eat 
breakfast." Also, the dining hall serves great stuff at break­
fast, although Isee disaster brewing the way they keep the 
biscuit gravy and the oatmeal right next to each other. Even 
ifyou'rnjust a cereal person, like me, and even if'you're 
really not a morning person, breakfast is worth the five­
minute time investment. 
Being up early let me in on a great experience last week. On Wednesday morning, South Dining Hall served strawber­ries. ni~e ripe ones. not the little wormy ones they sometimes have. l grabbed a handful to take with me on the walk to the library to start my shift at the computer cluster. Wednesday was the first of those beautiful 65-degree days, and it was a delight to cat strawberries while watching the sun rise over the stadium and feeling the first hints of a balmy breeze. Things like that cure any early-morning crankiness. 
Kate Rowland is a senior American studies and interna­tional studies major with minors in Irish studies and Latin American studies. She speaks fluent German, and she does more before noon than most people do all day. Well, e:r.cept the days she gets lazy and spends the morning watching "!Joh Ross's The Joy ofPainting." The uiews expressed in this column are those of the author and nol necessarily those of The Obseruer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Hey everybody, Re-lax! 
Hurray for Election 2000! Hurray for the top two tickets and the judicial council for orchestrat­ing such a remarkable comedic display about the fallacies inherent in seemingly simple election process! All of your tomfoolery has truly made us laugh! And hurray for ME!!! I was fortunate enough to have been a candidate in this calamity -and to all of the 109 people who voted for "Stu" Pardon and me, we thank you. And to all of our friends who didn't vote for us, it's OK. I highly doubt that your support would have constituted the additional 48 percent we needed to capture the majority of the vote and become. outright, the two most overrated students on campus. 
Since I believe that my political activism, though grossly ill fated, has established myself as a stu­dentleader and ambassador to at least 109 stu­dents, I feel that I need to address some current issues that have been cluttering The Observer on behalf of my people. So I'm just going to go ahead and start calling people out: 
To all the concerned students and alumni that have been martyred by the tortuous student chants at the UConn game: Re-lax. You should hear what people say at international soccer matches. 
To all those screaming bloody murder over the recent cartoon in The Observer concerning COBA's (the college that I patronize) misconcep­tion about who Kofi Annan is: Re-lax. It was a joke. I think we all know it wasn't an attempt to solicit any racist propaganda. 
To all the highly qualified sex experts that until recently were filling the paper with their high 'n· mighty sermons, condemning pre-marital sex: Re­lax. I guess I've always heeded this gem of advice: Don't knock it until you've rocked it. 
Lastly. I'd like to just lay a proposal on the proverbial table. The next time any of us feel like being grossly over dramatic and reactionary just for the sake of adding drama, remember this: RE­LA,X. Whatever you're about to slit your throat about probably isn't worth it. Forty years from now. is it really going to matter? Hell, four years from now is "A Depraved New World" or the fact that other people freely choose to have sex still going to make your blood boil? Probably not. And if vou do foresee that it will: Re-lax. And when you've cooled down, head to the proctologist; something may indeed bfl stuck. 
Ted Higgins Junior, St. Edwards Hall February 24, 2000 

Big families should not be mocked 
I think it's time someone steps up to bat (hello, University leaders and administrators) and defines "Catholic." I read the Feb. 8 guest column [Laura Antkowiak], a Notre Dame student who was ridiculed by her class mates because she came from a very large family. This young woman was made to feel shame because she was raised in a family that still practiced the dictates of the Catholic Church. Because her family did not cave in to the ways of contemporary society and limit their family to one or two children by means of birth cuntrol, she was bullied for not having as much money. Her mothPr and father were mocked for their lifestyle. 
Is this not persecution? Isn't it ironic and tragic that this young woman was made to feel ashamed of her beautiful Catholic family at a Catholic University? Ah, but that is just the point isn'.t it? How Catholic is Notre Dame these days anyway? Her counterparts, who come form the small wealthy families, boldly want to be able to have sex without children, so they can preserve their shapes. They don't want to be bothered by the giving required in raising children. The horror! As a front-runner of the '60s fiasco, I saw first hand the resulting tragedies as young women and men threw their morals to the wind. 
This second generation of women evidences a moral corruption unknown in recent times, which has turned the "gentler sex" into callous, grace­less imitators of the worst examples of the male gender. These "best and brightest" sadly don't even recognize the bill of goods they have been sold. Unlike their counterparts in the '60s who had the benefit of being nurtured in traditional Catholic homes, these children evidently have been denied access to much that is holy. 
These are our best and brightest? By whose standards? Harvard's? Yale's? Does anyone believe these women are Catholic? Why are they attending a Catholic University? Is anyone at Notre Dame interested in shaping intellectual Catholic crusaders/soldiers/evangelists? 
If ever there was an incident that brings home the need for Catholic universities and colleges to get back in line with the teachings of the Church.. this is it Our Catholic students need the support of adults to shield them from the slings and arrows of the secular world -evidently even at their own "Catholic" school. They are still learn­ing and being formed. remember'' Where is the guidance? Where is the protection? Where is the refuge? 
The president and administration at Notre Dame need to establish admission criteria that demonstrate which applicants are Catholic or at least not opposed to Catholic practices. 
It is time we return this school to a religious school. just like the Pope wants. Otherwise. change the name because "Our Lady" doesn't seem appropriate for the type ofwomen who.arc attracted to this school. 
Sheryl Miller 
Canton, Mass. 
February 16, 2000 


page l 0 Tuesday, February 29, 2000 
Broaden your musical horizons ~ 
The long and winding road finally brings f< and the San Francisco-based ro 
Q}
YIITICALHIII/IN 
. 
When:¥ 

. 
Where:' 

. 
Doors: C Concert-8p.m. 



. Tickets: 1 Lafortut $14fors1 for gene, 
Courtesy of RCA Records 

Vertical Horizon is 'everything you want' in a band 
Tomorrow evening the Notre Dame ing trouble categorizing the band as well. myth is that the band is heavily based on internet was that thfl man known as Santa community will be given a musical "Our sound is all about wherever we arr, improvisational jams. was really Jesus Christ. So I decided to shot in the arm. courtesy of recent at a particular time. The first album was "I don't really know how we got clumped come right out and ask Ed if they were 
radio darlings Vertical Horizon. But this is more about being a folk duo. Then we pro­together with the jam bands," says Toth. "I indeed a Christian band. I was answered not some case of a U93 one-hit wonder. gressed further and further. Live Stages mean we don't jam the way a Widespread with a chuckle and a shout in the back­Vertical Horizon has paid its dues. travel­pretty much showed what was going on in Panic or a Phish jams. I think people think ground. ing across the country the live show at the time. Now the nr.w we are one of those jam bands because we "Hey guys, we are getting the Christian playing their folk rock 
album has us running know how to play our question again." for college audiences. into the whole '90s instruments well." Turns out that the rumors weren't 
Originally an modern rock scene." In fact, the drummer exactly right on. 
"When you come to see 
acoustic duo com­Toth is right on the thinks the band has "I think when a band has songs that deal 
us, the one thing you
prised in 1991 of gui­money when he men­wisely stayed away with positive messages everyone is all con­tarists/vocalists Keith tions Vertical Horizon will see is that we just from some of the nega­fused. I mean it's fine with us bemuse Kane and ~att jumping into the "mod­love to play music. I tive aspects associat11d there can be 5,000 different interpreta­Scannell. Horizon ern rock scene." Such with jamming. It's pos­tions about a song. People can think what­
love the diversity of the 
employed drummer radio friendly songs as sible to tailor music for ever they want, but we are not a Christian Ed Toth before the "We Are" and the title group. an optimal live perfor­band. We don't even go to church when release of the live Geoffrey Rahie track have propelled mance, but that doesn't we are on the road," explained Toth. album Live Stages. the group to some miccesarily mean doing Some of the blame for the misconc!lption 
Ed Toth 
The album served as mainstream status. 20-minute versions of might be attributed to a Christian group
Drummer, Vertical Horizon 
a turning point for the Scene music However, with big suc­every song. that attends Horizon shows and mak!ls th!l 
band, elevating their critic sound to a more aggressive ear-catch­ing style. The band came full r.irclc in 1998 with the addition of ba.'isist Sean Hurley and has not turned back since. The release of their latest stu­dio effort, Everything You Want, has mod­ern rock radio stations chomping at thfl bit. 
One might have trouble putting Vertical Horizon into a set musiral category. When I talked to Ed Toth on Friday he was hav­cess comes some big challenges, namely dealing with the new­found celebrity. 

Although the studio album has been a major success, the band .is known for its electrifying live show. Known for varying their setlists, Vertical Horizon has eqjoyed large crowds across the country in many clubs. Toth promisl'd a show with about half new material and half old material. 
There has been some misconceptions about the live aspect of the band. One "Sure. we know how 
to expand our songs in 
concert, but we also know that there is a limit. Sometimes you can say what you have to say without going overboard." 
Another common myth that circulatfld was that Vertical I lorizon was a Christian rock group. I had heard the rumors, par­ticularly about one of their songs called "The Man Who Would Be Santa." The lyrics dflpict a loving relationship between a father and his son. but word across the claim that the band is religiously afTiliated. 
"Even though that's not the cas!l," said Toth. "it's cool that they are coming to the shows and getting something out of it." 
It's good to hear a band that isn't screaming it'i head off about moshing and other nonsense. Vertical Horizon doesn't write crappy songs about "The Nookir,." Instead they write infectious melodics with worthwhile lyrics. While talking to Toth is was apparantfl that the band has a gen­uine love of music. And on Wcdnsdav thev will be spreading the love. · · 



Tuesday, February 29, 2000 page 11 
ednesday night at Stepan Center 

rmer Georgetown rockers Vertical Horizon k band Stroke 9 to South Bend 
with the choke," said McDermott. the album and were coming to hear all "We have this nice fan base on the stations with our stuff McDermott is referring to the suc­the songs," McDermott explained. other side of the country, but it's 


Courtesy of Universal Records 

For Stroke 9, hard work finally pays off 
they didn't want anything to do with it. If it wasn't sounding like Korn or Limp Bizkit you were out of luck.'' Guitarist 
.lobn McOermott shared his thoughts on how tough it was lo get some of Stroke 9's material on the radio. 
The band, which initially formed almost a decade 


ago when the mem-Geoffrey Rahie bers where in high school in San 
Rafael. Calif. blends 
Scene music 

free-flowing guitars 
critic

with some catchy offbeat lyrics. So it's suprising now to hear how difficult it was to get the band heard in front of a mass audi­ence. 
"When the radio put us on it was almost as if they had to go against the grain. But now I think they are happy cess Stroke 9 has had with the catchy single "Little Black Backpack." The song is now famous for its surprise tempo changes and cynical lyrics regarding a relationship. 
"I think it's great that the song was able to garner some attention. We 
McDermott also discussed with me the whole process that the band must go through to transform itself to a live band after all the studio work. 
"In the studio I used many overdubs for the guitar parts. There is lots of layering and texturing. But when we 
really had something unique when we recorded the song," McDermott said. 
Now, one song does not make a band, so it's good to see that Stroke 9's latest album, Nastv Little Thoughts, is chalk full of songs that give modern rock a good name. The lead track "Letters," which is 

"We have this nice fan base on the other side ofthe country. but it's growing fast all over the place right now." 
John McDermott Guitarist, Stroke 9 
go on stage we have to turn everything up a little more." 
According to McDermott, the crowd at Stepan should expect an aggressive show with a "kick your ass a little more" attitude. 
While Stroke 9 has been splitting head­line duties with Vertical Horizon 
also the next single, is more straight­forward, but equally catchy. 
"When we first started on the tour, it was tricky. Pimple were corning to hear 'Backpack,' but after awhile we could tell people got their hands on lately, the band has enjoyed major surccss on the West Coast. Thfly have played to sell-out crowds in Los Angeles. San Francisco, Portland and Seattle. And it looks like the band is catching on fast all over the country. 
growing fast all over the p·lace now," McDermott said. 
As to who he would like to spend his time with on a deserted island ­Britney Spears or Christina Aguilera, McDermott replied, "Aguilera! No question about it. I saw one of her shows and she actually sings, no lip­synching like Britney. Plus, she's a lot better looking." 
Well, no matter what your prefer­ence is on teen queens, you will enjoy what Stroke 9 has in store. 
"Our sound is infectious," said McDermott, and it will be sure to please fans of live music. 
Stroke 9 is catching on fast and should catch on here as well come March 1. In addition to Nasty Little Thoughts, the band has self-released two albums prior to signing with Cherry/Universal in early '98, and has opened for the likes of Tom Petty, the Wallflowers and the Counting Crows. After a decade of dedication and hard work, Stroke 9 finally looks poised to reap the rewards. 


page l6 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 25, 2000 
Top fighters, newcomers meet in lightweight semifinals 
Wilson against tho surprise of the divi­up as one as a doozie with threeBy BRIAN BURKE BENGAL 
sion, freshman Josh Coleman. knockout artists and a disciplined tac­Sports Writer 
Wilson survived a bit of a scare in tician.
BOUTS the quarterfinals, overcoming Dominic In the first fight, the odds on favorite The lightweight classes in the "Little Italy" Angiollo in a hard hitting J.R. "Maddog" Mellin looks to advance Tueday semifinal round of Bengal split decision, Coleman, who upset Bill to the finals when he takes on Tom Bouts feature both top returning con­130 Pound Division "The Polish Hammer" Uniowski, "T.K." Owens. tenders looking to take the final step Last year's 125 pound champion advanced with a split decision by stay­Mellin won a unanimous decision towards a championship bout and sev­Jason "The Sweel Sensation" ing low, letting his opponent come to over Brock "Landers" Heckmann in eral newcomers vying for a shot at a McMahon moves up to 130 pounds and 
him, and countP-ring. which he controlled the fight from 
title. faces Matt "The Don" Fumagalli in the That same strategy could work again start to finish, moving in and out,semifinals. against Wilson's aggressive style. In landing quick uppercuts. and seldom Although McMahon is the favorite the other bout at 140 Pounds, second taking any hard shots.
120 Pound Division 
following a bye in the quarterfinals, ranked Anton "Ton of Bricks Poundin'
The 120-pound division appears to Owens displayed power in his second 
Fumagalli is coming off a strong per­
be wide open with four freshmen Down On Yo Face" Kemps meets round TKO of Kevin "Layin' The 
formance in the quarterfinals. Michael "Tim Motor City Madman'' Smack Down" Downs, but the openremaining, three of whom are yet to In that contest, fiumagalli had no Waldo.
make their debuts. hooks to the face will probably be 
troub.le landing combinations en route Kl'lmps reached the semifinals win­tougher to come by against the elusive
One of the boxers making his first appearance is top ranked James ning a unanimous decision in which he Mellin,
to a win bv unanimous rl.ecision. The other semifinal bout pairs sec­
"Piranha" Fishburne who takes on controlled much ol' the fight. The other semifinal card at 150 
ond seed Camilo "Rollin" Rueda wilh Meanwhile, Mike Waldo enters the pounds features "Cool Hand" LukeMike "\fr. Bubbles" Dixey. 
Michael Kontz in Rueda's first test of semifinals expecting the fight to be Stanton against Dennis "The NaturalDixey advanced to the semifinals by the Bouts.
winning a split derision over Reggie much like his bloody unanimous deci­Disaster" Abdelnour. "The Ugly Stick" Robles. Dixey has a Kontz is coming off a close split dec:i­sion victory in the quarterfinal round. Stanton won by way of a second 
sion victory in which he started slow "Anton is ranked pretty high," Waldo round Technical Knockout over John
slight experience advantage over Fishburne coming into the fight, which but managed to land enough punches said. "I guess I'm going in there with Sarson in the quarterfinals. Abdelnour 
may be a factor if he can get ahead in the third rounrl to pull ont the win. the mindset of fighting him rather then overwhelmed Joseph "What's Up early. Kontz will likely need to establish boxin~ him because he's the better Ladies!" Riggs in even less time, earn­
The other 120 pound boui. pits Dan himself earlier when he faces Rueda to boxer. ing a TKO one minute and 17 seconds "San" Buonadonna against Shawn make the finals. Look for Kemps and Waldo to go toe into his quarterfinal bout. "Knockout The Old And Bring In The" to toe in this one. This fight should he internsting, as Newberg. Stanton and Abdelnour are both strong
140 Pound Division

Both fighters step under the ropes 150 Pound Division fighters th~t appear to be evenly
The first card in the 140-pound
for the first time at the Bengal Houts. matched.
weight class matches No. 1 seed Kurt The 150-pound division is shaping 
Vaughan fell to Wake's Janet Bergman and Annemarie

Women 
Milton. In winning two of"the continued from page 20 three doubles matches, Wake 
assured itself of the win. thought to have a decided The newly assembled cou­advantage as tandem play got pling of Cunha and Vaughan underway. played hard, and considering 
However, a wrist injury to they had never played togeth­Guy dealt a cruel blow to er before, they staged quite a Notre Dame's upset hopes. run. Guy fell during her singles "They played hard togeth­match, and was unable to er,n Louderback said. "But compete in doubles. with no real chemistry it's Louderback opted to play hard to expect them to win, Vaughan in her place. especially against a good 
Taking advantage of Guy's Wake Forest team." injury, Wake Forest was not The Irish were attempting to about to have its beat a top five team for the 
No. five ranking diminished first time since 1996, when and it quickly served notice to they outlasted the Longhorns Notre Dame that an upset of Texas in a tight match. would not come easily. Meanwhile, Notre Dame 
Engel and Bea Bielik hopes Guy's injury is not seri­knocked off Dasso and ous. She was to undergo X­Varnum while Cunha and rays late Monday. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
first loss this season as the picked up a 1-0 win over the Irish fell 4-2. Virginia Cavaliers. Scoreless at
Softball 
With an 0-:1 record for the the top of the seventh, Lemire, weekend, Notre Dame softball who finished 3-for-3 with
continued from page 20 
decided it was time to fight three of Notre Dame's five to drive in Jennifer Kriech and back as it picked up its first hits, tripled before scoring on give Notre Dame a 3-0 lead. win with a 2-1 victory over a pitching error for the Irish Missouri took over in the Arkansas in game two. win. Sharron allowed just two fourth and fifth with two runs Alkire doubled to drive in a hits while striking out eight to each inning for the 4-3 win. run in the first before Loman improve to 4-1 this season. 
l\iotre Dame suffered its doubled and scored to give the Notre Dame ended the tour­third loss in a row as it fell to 
Irish a 2-0 lead. Arkansas nament action with a 6-1 win Arkansas in game one on finally retaliated in the sev­in game two against Virginia. Saturday. enth by scoring one. With two Myers finished 2-for-3 offen­
The Lady Razorbacks scored outs, the tying run on third sively with two runs, three two runs each in the fifth and and the winning run on first, RBIs and a solo home run in sixth innings for the 4-0 lead sophomore pitcher Michelle the first to kick off the Irish. before the Irish fought back in Moshe! shut down Arkansas Alkire grabbed her first win of 
the bottom of the sixth. Kriech, with a strikeout to give Notre the season allowing just two who finished 3-for-3 at the 
Dame the win. Moshe! totaled hits and one run. plate, doubled and scored on a 10 strikeouts while allowing Notre Dame will continue single by !\1elanie Alkire. just three hits for her career play this weekend as it com­Freshman Andrea Loman best. petes against Tennessee, tripled to drive in Alkire. Junior Lizzy Lemire led Virginia Tech and Kentucky in But it was too little and too Notre Dame in game one the Stateline University Classic late. Sharron picked up her action on Sunday as the Irish at Bristol, Tenn. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 1.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES THE COPY SHOP  WANTED ASPIRING WRITERS!  B'NB REGISTRY 219-291-7153 EXCELLENT 5 BEDROOM HOUSE  PERSONAL www.thecommentator.com  Top 20 Quotes-Purdue 1 )One Big Orgy Bed 2)I'm not getting cracked! 3) Is it crevice or crevasse? 4)The Navigator  But I have a test tomorrow. A midterm in fact. I am in trouble. Shoot...  
Lafortune Student Center Store Hours  www.maincampus.com seeks stu• dents for stories ranging from  GOOD AREA NORTH 2773097  Fax it fast!  5)Guido needs a map 6)Sally the Rhinestone Cowboy  Yup, I think I will be going to Rutgers next year.  
Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Mid  Politics/Sex/Culture/Opinions  Fax it fast!  ?)Sooner or later your brother is  
Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat: Noon-6:00pm Sun: Noon-Mid Free Pick-Up & Delivery! Call 631-COPY We're open late so your order will be done on time!  $25 per story' Email us at: earn@maincampus.com LACROSSE OFFICIALS Officials needed for Men's lnterhall Lacrosse. This is a  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR GOOD AREA NORTH 2773097  Fax it fast! Sending & Receiving THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-3291 All the news that fits, we print.  going to have to have SEX B)S'*' guys, the toilet overflowed 9)It's better w/ the backseat down, then you can get into the trunk 1 0)So they all rolled over and one fell out 11 )Never Ending Story 12)Ouit Squeezing my bagels 13)ND! ND! ND! What are you  I am so going to flunk out of this place. Classes just keeping getting in the way of my education.  
..  BUILD CONDOS, APARTMENTS OR OFFICES.  great way to get outside, earn good money, & have fun' Attend the mandatory officials meeting on Wed. 311 @ 6pm  1-bdrm Apt, walk in closet, parking space. In nice residential area on a lake, 10 min drive lrom ND. $400/mo.  Love is not like a potato. You can't throw it out the window. I will be the happiest girl in the  doing here? 14)You can stop that in 1/2 an hour 15)Stop screwing the Gatorade Bottle  I kinda like it  
Land for lease. 112 acre on Ivy Road across from Eck Baseball  in Rolfs Sports Rec. Center or contact Brandon Leimbach  $250 dep. Postgrad student or faculty only.  whole entire world when flu season ends.  16)They would have been h-ing Erin  
Stadium.  @631-3536.  No smoking, no alcohol, no party  17)1'd better sneeze more often  
Call 277-0189 betw 12-9pm.  1 B)Missing some pillows and a  Iggy Pop  
Write:  comforter?  
LAND  HI MOM! Are you reading this? HI  19)So whose the hot one on your  
704 PEASHWA Y SOUTH BEND, IN 46617  FOR RENT  B&B for ND grad & Football 3 miles" 4 rooms  DAD too.  team? 20)How come I'm the only one who didn't get hit on all night?  To the Red-headed Warrior,  
ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE  287-4545  fl  Hang around this town.  
LOST & FOUND  AND CLOSE http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ email:mmmrentals@aol.com  All woman ed board except for me after the spring ... I think this is not a bad thing.  Scene Amanda,  Fall around this old town so long.  
•••·•••••.. ••Jost•••·••·••••••··  232-2595  FOR SALE  Now you are really Scene Amanda  'backer-'backer!'!  
silver Ya.shica camera on 2118 nea1  Available '00·01.  
JACC -had JPW pies ·••••··•···reward···--·······•  4-6 Student Rental House ... 2 112 baths: lots of space: Parking Lot  New Phone Card 886 mins. $20  But I have a test tomorrow. A midterm in fact. I am in trouble.  I know, that last classified made no  
CALL 634-3040  and Laundry ... Dave 291-2209  258-4805 or 243-9361  Shoot..  sense.  Why does he have two pot books?  

Tuesday, February 29, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 

ree oo 


-


-

I a U S Tuesday 29, 2000 1 2:PM-1 :SOPM Lafortune Ballroom Academic Lunches 
Deans, Administrators, AND YOU! 
Sponsored by Student (iovernment "Bringing it All Together" 


-

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 29, 2000 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Roeder resigns after 4-win season 
said. "\\'orking, coaching a

By KATIE McVOY 
high school team, and coach­

Sports Wrirer 
ing this team was too much work. Saint Marv's head basketball 

"Dave really, really cams coach Dave Roeder resigned 
about the team," Kachmarik last week after four years of 
added. "It was a hard deci­

service. 
sion, but with the frustratingAfter a 

season it was time to take the long, frus­program in a new direction." 

trating sea­Although Kachmarik knew 
son. the 
about Roeder's pending resig­S a i n t 
nation, she waitfld to start 

Mary's 
looking for his replacementbasketball 

until the season was over. She 

team fin­
will immediately star1 to seek 

ished the 
a replacement. 

s e a s o n Roeder The long-term plan is to find with a 4-22 a full-time coach to lead the 
record. 
team and recruit. However 
"Dave wanted to let someone 
that may not happen for next 

else step up and do something 
season. with this program," athletic 
"For Saint Mary's basketball director Lynn Kachmarik said. 
history to change, we need a Roeder worked as a part­full-time coach and a full-time time employee of the Saint 
program," Kachmarik said. Mary's athletic department, 
"That's what we're up againstwhile he held a full-time job 

and we need that in order to 

elsewhern and coached a high 
compete. We may not be able school basketball team. 
to find someone this year, but "It was a huge time commit­

down the road we want a full­ment for Dave," Kachmarik 
time coach." 
Visit The Observer online at www.nd.edu/--observer 

Please recycle The Observer. 

Oetfu-el'i1rj Tk Bef~t Rzza/ 
®@~Q Q[b@ @ . ©@~ lJ(!)@@cfJ~~~H 

Anytime 

Anytime you call between you call between 
5:30 & 7:00, 


10:30-12:59 
9 
3 
the price of your 

the price of your 
2 large 1 pizza topping pizzas is the time you call. 

large 1 topping 



is the time you call. 
* Plus tax

* Plus tax 1r-------------,1
lunch Special 1 Small 1 Topping I ND store 12 Cans of Coca-Cola product I Saint Mary's/ I $5 99 I ·
271-1:1.77 L ______ ,.:. ______.J North Village Mall 

271-PAPA 



www.nd.edu/-sub 

Tuesday, February 29, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

Happy

0MPU5 tv11Nl5TRY 
J2K! 
This Week in Campus Ministry 
Monday, February 14 through Wednesday, March l l03 Hesburgh Library Freshman Retreat #28 (Mar. 3-4) Sign-Up 
Targeted dorms: Alumni, Breen-Phillips, Howard, Keough, Knott, Lyons, McGlinn, Pasquerilla West, and Sorin 
Monday, February 14 through Friday, March 24 l03 Hesburgh Library Senior Retreat #2 (Mar. 31-Apr. l) Sign-Up 
Monday, February 28 through Friday, March 3 l03 Hesburgh Library Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #6 l (April 1416) Sign-Up 
Tuesday, February 29, 7:00 p.m. Badin Hall Chapel Campus Bible Study 
Wednesday, March l, 8:00 p.m. Wilson Commons Graduate Student Bible Study Group 
Wednesday, March l, l 0:00-l 0:30 p.m. Walsh Hall Chapel Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Friday-Saturday, March 3-4 St. joe Hall Freshman Retreat #28 
Saturday, March 4 Moreau Seminary RCIA Retreat 
Saturday, March 4 Liturgical Choir Trip Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception Ft. Wayne, Indiana 
Vigil Mass for the 9th Sunday in Ordinary Time 
Sunday, March 5, 2:00 p.m.-6:00 p.m. McKenna Hall, CCE Confirmation Afternoon of Recollection 
Sunday, March 5, 4:00 p.m. 
Sorin Hall Chapel Rejoice! Mass Presider: Rev. Bill Wack, c.s.c. 
Monday, March 6 through Monday, April 3 l 03 Hesburgh Library Freshman Retreat #29 (April 7-8) Sign-Up 
Targeted dorms: Carroll, Cavanaugh, Dillon, Farley, Fisher, Pangborn, Morrissey, Stanford, and Welsh Family 
RCIA: Conversion of the Heart 
RCIA, or the Rite ofChristian Initiation ofAdults, is not a typical Campus Ministry program. Actually, it is not a program at all, but rather a sacramental process. The RCIA process has at its heart the same sacramental attirude that is at the very heart of the Christian life: conversion, or a "turning" of the whole person, not just the intellect. The RCIA is also a rather recent restoration of an ancient practice of initiation into the church: a process of discerning and ritualizing conversion, leading to initiation through the sacraments ofbaptism, confirmation, and eucharist celebrated at the Easter vigil, thus empowering men and women for lives of service, charity and justice as witnesses to the love of God. The community of believers has an important part to play in this process, too. It is the Notre Dame community, through its witness, worship, service, and catechesis, that offers the invitation and support necessary for men and women to be initiated into the church. 
This weekend the catechumens, chose seeking baptism, and candidates, baptized Christians seeking to complete their initiation, will celebrate the Rite of Election. This rite, usually celebrated on the first Sunday of Lent, affirms the discernment process in which RCIA participants have been engaged and marks the entrance into an even more intense period of formation. The catechumens and candidates will continue their preparations until they participate in the sacraments of initiation during the Easter Vigil. 
adapted from: The RCTA: Transforming th, Church, Thomas H. Morris 
Congratulations to the following RCIA Catechumens and Candidates who will participate in the Rite of Election on Sunday, March 5 at the 11 :45am Mass in the Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart. Bishop Daniel Jenky, CSC will be presiding. 
,,,__)__Ir'.:'TECHUMENS (Godpa=ts)L-1--(_._ 
Jim Cochran (Marytza Mendizabal) Everett Dittman (Katie Dorn) Tyson Fraser (Tom Gaughan, CSQ Kevin Fuller (Jill Neuklis) Stephanie Hochstetler (Bill Cerney) Lufei Jia (Veronica Lee) James Krueger (Chris Toner) Ashlee Logan ( Catherine Bateson) Brian Mink (Chris Lawler) Sue Roth (Elizabeth Wilschke) Kyle Shaw (Brian Connor) Mari Shiraishi ( Gina Pillonz) Kelly Singer (Ben Kytelo) Kimberly Springer (Marita Connor) 
) I~DIDATES (Sponso: I < 
Conrad Engelhardt (Jennifer McEntee) Morgan Farmer(Bridget O'Connor) Lezlie Farris (Adrienne Franco) Rachelle Gentner(Marty Lopez) Christa Guerreno (Tim Burbage) Emily Hallinan(Katie Coleman) Robyn Harridge(Bi//y Marshall) Risa Hartley-Werner(Michael Cretella) Matt Mamak(Marie Gemma) Michael Mancuso(Adam ~n Fossen) Katie Meierotto (Michael Rizzo) Cory Neal (Annie Neat, Stephanie Newcom (Chris Powers) Alexis Nussbaum (Stasia Bijak) Andrea Odicino (Jennifer Schell) Gina Pierson (Kristen Clancy) Dylan Reed (Ryan Walsh) Renita Riley (Katie O'Banion) Bill Roth (Gary Chamberland, csq Bill Westberry (Dawn Meyer) 
t 
t 
' 
BENGAL 
· OUTS 
page 16 "Strong bodies fight, that weak bodies may be nourished." Tuesday, February 29, 2000 
Semifinals bring tough competition to ring 
160-pound division 

By KERRY SMITH 
In one of the most open brackets in the 
Assistant Sporrs Editor 
Bouts, the title is up for grabs in the 160­pound weight division. With top seeds 
Rivalry heats up in the ring tonight "Dangerous" Dan Schaeffor and J.P. when semifinal action resumes in the 70th "Fabulous Thunderlips" Carmardo givenannual Bengal Bouts. 
early exits from the tournament, any of With the fit>ld narrowt>d to just four in the four contenders remaining could grabeach weight division, every punch the championship crown. becomes more critical as the competition P.J "Oowntown·· DuWors earned his grows tougher with each bout. second win of the tournament with a unanimous decision over Schaeffer and will be looking for his third when he takes
155-pound division 
to the ring against untested Josf'ph "The Polygamist" Smith. 
In the 155-pound division, No 2 Jeff "The Pittsburgh Kid" Dobosh is the favorite after unranked Paul "He-Man" 
Smith received a bye in the preliminar­ies and advanced past the quarterfinalsMehan upset top seed Travis "The Only with a walkover decision. 
Time I Get Hit On is in the Ring" In the lower half of the bracket, MattAlexander. 
"All You Can Eat" McCullough, who upsetThird-year boxer Dobosh is looking to Carmardo will need to overcome chal­av1mgP losses in previous tournaments. 
lenger Chris "My Nickname Was Excised"The senior lost a split decision to the No. 
Matassa's height and reach advantage to1 seed during his sophomore year and advance to the finals. 
made an early exit from last year's com­
Matassa fended off a spirited John
petition when he was upset as the No. 2 "Judas" Berry in a unanimously decided
seed. Dobosh vvi.ll enter the ring tonight after 
hout. earning a unanimous decision over Billy "Sweet Pea" McMurtie in the quarterfinals 
165-pound division

Sunday. 
The 165-pound weight division boasts ready for the challenge Nowak will pre­170-pound DivisionDobosh's next challenge en route to the some of the toughest competitors of the sent him. Top seed Brian "Hoppe" Hobbins willfinals is Tom "The Pretender" Pierce. 
tournament. "I know he's the returning champ and I continue his title bid when he faces ener­Pierce, a freshman fighting in his first No 1. seed Sean "The Erie Kid" Nowak know he's the top seed," said O'Rourke. getic Ben "The Mail Must Get Through"Bouts, took a unanimous decision against 
and No. 2 seed Don "The Destroyer" Penn "So I'm just going to go out there and do Dillon.
Christopher "Redhead Thunder" Kusek advanced through the quarterfinals with my best." Dillon earned his spot in tonight's boutsSunday. 
ease -Nowak took only 18 seconds to dis­O'Rourke has the advantage of being a with a unanimous decision Sunday.
Pierce will have to continue his con­pose of his challenger Matthew "The Jedi" lefty, but realizes that \-viii only carry him Hobbins faced tough competition in Kyletrolled boxing and patient attack in order Gentile, while Penn took just over a so far. "The Private Kerrigan" in the quarterfi­to advance. 
minute to take care of Holt 'The Fightin · "In the beginning it catches you oppo­nals.
Mehan. one of the tournament's biggest Reinhold" Zeidler. nent off-guard," said the first-time com­Coming away with a split decision,surprises, will find his match in Robert The top seeds \\'ill have a tougher time petitor. "But then they can do the same Hobbins earned rights to continue on in'The Skinny Ginnea" Vuolo. 
of it tonight when they face stronger com­with their right, so it comes down to who the tournament only after a close match.
Both Mehan and Vuolo earned their way petition. Nowak will meet Tim "Rock" makes the most of it." No. 2 seed Joe "Layeth Down theto the semifinals vvi.th hard-fought match­O'Rourke a senior who earned a split deci­Penn's next challenge will be Joe "The Smacketh" Kippels also earned a splites in the preliminaries and upsets in the sion in the quarterfinals. O'Rourke is Polish Tank" Czerniawski. decision to enter the semifinals. 

quarterfinals. 

120 LB. Weight Division 
Michael "Mr. Buobles" Dixey vs. Jimmy "Piranha" Fishburn 
Dan "San" Buonadonna vs. Shawn "Knockout the Old & Bring in the" 
130 LB. Weight Division 
Newberg 
Jason "The Sweet Sensation" McMahon vs. Matthew 'The Don" Fumigalli Daniel "Too Short" Gallegos vs. Camilo "Rollin" Rueda 
140 LB. Weight Division Kurt Wilson vs. Josh Coleman Michael "The Motor City Madman" Waldo vs. An "Ton of Bricks Pound in' Down On Yo Face" Kemps 150 LB. Weight Division Tom "T.K." Owens vs. J.R. "Maddog" Mellin Dennis "The Natural Disaster" Abdelnour vs."Cool Hand" Luke Stanton 
155 LB. Weight Division Robert 'The Skinny Ginnea" Vuolo vs. Paul "He-Man" Mehan Tom "The Pretender" Pierce vs. Jeff "The Pittsburgh Kid" Dobosh 160 LB. Weight Division 
Joseph "The Polygamist" Smith vs. P.J. "Downtown" DuWors Matt "All You Can Eat" McCullough vs. Chris "My Nickname Was Excised" Matassa 
165 LB. Weight Division Sean "The Erie Rid" Nowak vs. Tim "Rock" O'Rourke Joe 'The Polish Tank" Czerniawski vs. Don "The Destroyer" Penn 
170 LB. Weight Division 
Ben "The Mail Must Get Through" Dillon vs. Brian "Hoppe" Hobbins Rob "The Golden Schlager" Joyce vs. Joe "Layth Down The Smacketh" Kippels 
175 LB. Weight Division Tom ''The Tulsa Bomber" Biolchini vs. Tom "How Ya Like Me Now?'' Dietrich Steve "The Angry Pirate" Pfeiffer vs. Josh "The Sandman" Thompson 
180 LB. Weight Division 
Joey "Soda Pop" Leniski vs. Doug "Sauce Doggy Dog" Bartels · ht D' • • Mark Criniti vs. Tom "The Hitter" DeSplinter 
190 LB W
. e1g 1v1s1on 

Chris "The Sweet Scientist" Pearsall vs. Mike "Honey" Hammes Patrick "The Hitman" Otlewski vs. Jason "It's Not Easy Being J Rod" Rodriguez 
200 LB. Weight Division 
Peter "Beat The Rap" Ryan vs. Joe "It'll Take You A Month To" Healy Dan "Let Me" Adam vs. Jonathon "BGP" Pentzien 
ANDI POWELLfrhe Observer 
Rodriguez defended his high seeding by knocking down Gavin

Heavy 
"The Morning Glory" Hagens is continued from page 20 convincing fashion, using multiple left jabs to stop the fight 29 sec­
defeated Pete Smith in a split onds into the third round. decision by halting a comeback late in the third round. 
200-pound division

Two high seeds meet in the 
After watching the preliminariesother half of the bracket, as sopho­and quarterfinals from the side­more Marc Criniti faces Tom "The lines, junior captain Peter "BeatHitter " DeSplinter in the alternate the Rap" Ryan vvi.11 look to defendbout. 

his top seed in a bout againstAfter earning a bye in the pre­sophomore Joe "It'll Take You aliminaries, Criniti used two knock­Month to" Healy. Ryan's absencedowns to defeat Bobby "I'll make from the quarterfinals was unex­you pay Castro" Kennedy just over pected; a walkover was called late a minute into the second round. 

Tuesday evening after his oppo­DeSplinter won a unanimous deci­nent, Dustin Ferrel, aggravated asion over Chris Prill vvi.th an etfec­bicep injury he suffered earliertive combination of agility and this year. 

aggressiveness. 
After watching the bouts of the past weekend, Ryan looks eager to 190-pound division step into the ring. 
After knocking off an experi­'Tm going to try to be more enced senior on Sunday night, aggressive than usual," he said. freshman Chris "The Sweet "To try to take control of the fight Scientist" Pearsall will meet up early. I think I'm going to have with top seed Mike "Honey" more endurance than my oppo­Hammes in the first bout of the nent, so I'<l like to sec if I can take bracket. Hammes earned the only it the whole distance." bye of the division, while Pearsall Healy advanced to the semifinals soundly defeated Tom "The Mad with a win over Zahm senior Greg Mick" Herrity in a unanimous Joseph. taking advantage of late­decision. round fatigue to earn the split 
On the other side of the bracket, decision. Dillon sophomore Kevin In the other bout of the night, "Hardcore" Brandl will meet class­graduate student Dan "Let Me" mate Jason "It's not Ea5y Being J­Adam will light his first bout of the Rod" Rodriguez for the right to night against senior Jonathon box in Friday's finals. Brandl "BGP" Pentzien. advanced in one of the most evenly Adam's quarterfinal' opponent, 
BENGAL The Bouts continue BOUTS 1tti tonight at 7:30 p.m. 
fought bouts of the quarterfinals, senior Chris Craylor, suffered a defeating Patrick "The Hitman" shoulder injury which forced the Otlewski in a split decision. second walkover of the division. 
"I expect a really good fight from l'entzien, the second seed of the Rodriguez," Brandl said about his bracket advanced with a victory upcoming match. "I just want to over graduate student Steve 
come out there strong and keep Pratico, knocking him down early my punches straight." in the second round. 
Tuesday, February 29, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Interested in sports? The Observer is looking for production 
assistants. Call 1-4543 for more information. 
It 
5 


Basketball Sign-ups 


~
~ 
CLUB SPORTS 
Irish take first, second at Classic 
Special to The Observer 
National powers, including Miami (Ohio), Northern Illinois, Eastern Michigan and Virginia Tech, trekked to Gvmnastics Michiana to challenge the gym­nastics club at the prestigious Clover Classic. Clubs from the Big 10 -Illinois, Indiana, Ohio State and Purdue -also attend­ed. 
Undaunted, the Irish per­formed to their highest level of the year, as the men captured first place with a team score of 
146.75. Eastern Michigan, with 131 points, and Indiana, with 130, were a distant second and third. 
The women lost by the nar­rowest of margins to Miami. 140-139.6. 
Many individual performances highlighted the competition. 
Jason Miller placed first in the high bar, second in the rings, third in the vault and second all around. Mickey McGarry placed first in both the floor and vault, second in the high bar and third all around. 
Standout performances in women's competition included Allison Mlller's fourth in both the vault and uneven bars, Sandy Jenkins' sixth in the uneven bars, Katie Ronchonskv's fourth in the floor competition and Erin Henry's third in the vault, fifth in uneven bars and third in floor, 
The club will now set its sights on the nationals from March 30 through April 2 at Indiana University. The men took third in last year's championships at the Naval Academy, and were the national champions in 1998, while the women cracked the top 10 for the first time last year. 
Field hockey 
The [rish stepped up in class at the Ball State Invitational. lin­ing up against six of the Midwest's strongest programs. While the Irish didn't win, they made a statement by playing competitively against Midwest varsity powers such as Ball State and Central Michigan. 
In its best effort of the week­end, Notre Dame fell 3-0 to national power Iowa. a Final Four team from a year ago. Carolyn Roderick and Liza Naticchia paced the Irish scoring attack, while Ellen Block was exceptional in the goal through­out the weekend. 
Men's volleyball 
The volleyball club finished prepping for the upcoming Midwest lntercollegiates and nationals by splitting four games at Indiana's Hoosier Invitational. The club opened with a 25-13. 25-17 victory over Illinois Wesleyan before dropping matches to Team Root 25-19, 25-21, and Kendall University 19-25, 25-21, 15-11. Notre Dame closed the competition by defeating Ball State 25-17, 25­
21. 




VisIr tHe all new VeRsltv.com 
lecrure Notes . tutoRiats . rEsearcH cenrer 


(we'Re even Giving awav a mino-bLowing Trip to Europe) v.·.. _ers8.11v 
•a/wars (1440.365) OPen• 


·····•COffl'.::., 
Where ta 10 when yow. 11eed to know."' 

page 18 The Obseroer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 29, 2000 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish shut down opponents, improve record to 7-3 
By RACHEL BIBER 
Spcms Writer 
You can bet the Irish ate their spinach brforf' they hPaded into the WP.ekimd's competition. 
NotrP Dame musrled up and surrendered only two points between the two matches they played. bPating both NorthwestPrn and 63rd-ranked Purdue 6-1 and improving its dual-match record to 7-3. 
Saturday's matchup against the Purdtrn Boilermakers marked tht' last time the Trish would play at home this season. but they gave the crowd a grand finale by destroying any Boilermakers attempt at victory. The Notre Dame vvin marked the 10th straight time Notre Dame has tuppt'd Purdue. 
Seniors Hvan Sachire and Trenl Miller quickly fired up the Irish squad by racing to a 3-0 lead in No. 2 doubles. giving up only one point in the process. The pair never looked back, run­ning away with an 8-3 victory over Purdue's Scott Mayer and Carl McCatforty. 
Tho Boilermakers evrned out the score in doubles when Dcrnk Miller and Lailh J\1-J\glm edgt!d out the Irisb's .lames Mallrnnw and Ashok Haju 9-8 (7-1) at No. 3 doubks. 
The 53rd-ranked Irish duo of Aaron Talarico and Javier Taborga then clinclrnd the dou­bles point clt 1"o. I doubles by topµing thP Boilcrmakrrs' threatening 50tb-rankod team or Jason Marshall and Andrnw Wak0field. Down 6-7. thn Irish pairing was able Lo brnak Marshall's serve to stay alive and claim victorv 8-6, and improved to 11-5, with their fourth straight win. 
Purdue coach Tim Madden was stunned by the energy and aggressiveness displayed by Notre Dame at tho start of the match. 
"Notrt> name's doubles teams had energy like we haven't seen this year," Madden said. "They 

..., When: Wednesday March ,~-Friday March 3"' 9:30 PM ..., Where: Montgomery Theater on the I" floor of Lafortune ..., Featured Films: 
..,, Wednesday: HEATHERS with Winona Ryder ..., Thursday: A l EAGUE OF THEIR OWN with Geena Davis ..., With an introduction from a former player ofthe AllAmerican Girls Professional Baseball League -Friday: 6UEt,1S WrTH Sigourney Weaver 
COME JOIN US!!! 


Undergrads + Graduate Students 
• 
Fulfill a distribution or general education requirement 

• 
Accelerate progress towards your degree or minor 

• 
Live on campus -35 miles south of San Francisco 

• 
Over 200 classes offered in more than 50 departments 


Courses such as: Physics, Economics, Biology, 
Engineering, Music, Computer Science, Philosophy, Drama, Classics, Athletics, Literature, Intensive Languages, Chemistry, Psychology, Mathematics, Anthropology 
Stanford University Summer Session Building 590, Ground Floor Stanford, CA 94305-3005 
(650) 723-3109, fax: (650) 725-6080 
Email: summersession@stanford.edu Web: summersession.stanforCl.edu 
For a FREE catalogue, send your: 
Name _________ Address_________ City. ST. ZIP~-----­
Email _________ 
UNO'li:2'1 
Circle: Undergrad Grad 

hit us off the court early on and that really set the tone for the match. That lingered on throughout singles." 
Notre Dame tallied a 4-0 lead over Purdue with wins bv Sachire, Talariro, and Andre~ Lal1in at tho Nos. 1, 5 and 6 sin­gles matches. respectively. 
Sevontnenth-ranked Sachire ll'fl little room !'or hopP of vif'.tory for his ()2nd-ranked opponent Marshall by taking away the first seven games of the match before r.losing out the match G-0, 6-4. 
Ca.soy Smith followed up his Irish teammates by posting a 6­
4. (1-3 win al No. 3 singles. while Matt Daly finished the scoring l'or tho Irish by defeating thn Boilermakers' Den~k Miller. brothr.r nf Irish senior Trent Millrr, 6-:1, <>-4 at the No.2 sin­gles spot. 
The Boilermakr.rs Wf'rfl able to salvage one point when Andrew Wakefield came away with victo­ry over the Irish' Taborga 6-4. 6­:1 at No. 4 singles. 
Notre Dame's fiMy style of play was not extinguished dur­ing il, travels for Sunday's battle against thu Northwnstcrn Wildcats. as the Irish again effectivdy shut ouL their oppo­nenli,. 
Notre Dame's doubles tPam of Sachirn and Millnr again startnd the winning ways for the Irish by speeding to an 8-:-3 win at No.2 doubles bnl'ore Malharne and Smith clinched the doubles point with an 8-6 win in the No. 3 match. 
Notre Dame's Talrnrga and Talarico continued their winning streak and complct<!d thr swe0p of the doubles for Notre Damn by squeaking past Nort.hwcstfirn·s 44th-rankrd pairing of Joost !lol and Brad Erickson 9-8 (7-1 ). With the win. Taborga and Talarico improved to 12-5 on the year and preserved a fivo match unbeaten streak. 
All-American Sachirc tallird another singles win by downing Erickson 6-2. 6-3 in tlw No. 1 match, improving to 22-6 on the year. Smith and Laflin chipped in two more points for the Irish by posting wins at No. 3 and 5 singl1~s rr.sp0ctivrly. Lanin ral­lird for the win by regrouping al'ter tlw first set and coming back in a dominant fashion to tako the match 3-6. 6-0, 6-2. 
ln tho No. 2 singl1is match, Notre Damn's Daly proved he is coming back strong from a shoulder injury by capturing vic­tory 6-4. 6-'.~. while Brian FarrPll wra.ppl•.d up ,l win in the No. (1 match ()-4. 6-1. The lone Northwestern point camP when Notre Dame's Taborga was defeated at No. 4 singles 6-3. h­
3. 
The Irish rnturn to ,1t:tion Friday. wlH•n they travrl to California to partidpate in the Pacific Coast Doublos tourna­mPnl. 

THE TASTY BACON CHEDDAR WHOPPER~ 
T H I N K O F I T A S A W H O P P E R® T H A T ' S DRESSED UP WITH SOMEPLACE TO GO, 

THE WHOPPER' WITH A NEW TWIST FOR A LIMITED TIME, 
If you're already a fan of "America's Favorite Burger,"· why not try it a whole new way? With crispy bacon and melted cheddar cheese, it's sure to put a smile on your face. So head to a BURGER KING0 restaurant soon and make sure to bring your appetite. 
The Huddle -Lafortune Student Center 


Tuesday, February 29, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 19 TOM KEELEY 
JEFP BEAM 

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLDFOURTH AND INCHES 
BILLAMEND
Fox TROT 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Jewelry that's not kept in a
Clear the safe
blackboard 30 "Give it_!"
6 A pope may 31 Photographerlead it Adams 
10 Ultimate diet 
33 New-car feature, 14 Kind of paint for short 
15 Bum soother 36 Potluck dinner dish
16 "Coffee, Tea ?" 41 Tackle a slope 
17 Result of a 42 "Me.~rily we roll workout 43 Certain turn
18 Starting point for a flight test? 44"_Hope" (former soap) 
19 Roll-on target 47 Tea type 
20 C.P.A..'s 
49 Fund-raising

23 Edmonton's 
effort 

home 
52 Colony 26 Plains Indian members 
27 Rita of 'West 53 Features of Side Story" many signs 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE C A M 
s E 
.:~~;:::::::~:~.
~:-+c=-i R U E 
L I E L E S 



A pleasant spring stroll across the quad. 
beam.1@nd.edu 

HOROSCOPE 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 29, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Joss Ackland, Jimmy Dorsey, Jack Lousma, Gretchen Christopher, 
Antonio Sabata Jr. Happy Birthday: Follow your intuition and you won't go wrong. You can make money through worthwhile investments. You will do whatever is necessary to make y_our 
quality of life better. The more time spent on-self-improvement and health regimens, the better. You ~ be satisfied only if you are a partici­pant in life. Your numbers: 6, 18, 22, 
29,31,47 . 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Obstacles may cause you ~o get behind where important duties are concerned. Travel will not be in your best interests. Conversations may lead you in the wrong direction. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Anger is in~table.if y~u have got­ten involved m dub10us investments. Children may ask the impossible or get into unwarranted trouble. 
00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your emotional life will be in shambles. Don't take comments made by.out­
siders to heart. It is best not to make decisions regarding your current situation. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will find that promotions or career changes can not oruy be positive but open the doors to new avenues. You can gain popularity if you dig in and help the uncterdog. 000 . 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will 
be tempted to spend money or gam­
ble today; however, the l~s will be 
yours and the upset will not ~e 
worth the excitement. Your mate will 
EUGENIA LAST 
show disappointment. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your home environment may be unset­tled. Do not overload your plate or make promises you can't keep. Try to 
deal with the problems of those who dwell under the same roof as you. 
00000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Od. 22): You will be somewhat accident-prone. °? not act harshly or without_ thought if you are disappointed with others. Take time to plan your response 
carefully. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): ~o not invest today. Dubious deals will attract you, and unreliable individ~­als will cause you grief. Spend as lit­tle as possible and don't offer to pay for others. 0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your emotional well-being w!11 be threatened and arguments will prevail if you push yo~ op~ons on your lover. Minor a=dents m your home will happen if you are careless. 
000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Don't let others put unrealistic de­mands on you. Be ca'!'tious when dealing with secret affairs; your rep­utation is at stake. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Anger will mount if you lo~ned money or belongings to an unreliable friend. Do not overextend yourself to pay for a membership to an expen­
sive club. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): If your temper gets out of hand, your career could suffer. Do not use emo­tional blackmail on your lover. Changes on the home front should be carefully considered 0000 
56 Cartoonist Thomas 57 Furrow former 58 Europe's "boot'' 62 Novel ending? 63 Hindu music 64 Tea type 65 Cattail, e.g. 66 Baseball's Vizquel 
67 Pix 
DOWN 
1 1997 U.S. Open winner Ernie 2 Like sushi 3 Had a beef? 4 Navy builder 5 On the outside 6 Food from heaven 
7 Baldwin of "Prelude to a Kiss" 
8 Fair-to-middling 9 Arrangements 
10 Heels and 
11 "As You Like It'' forest 12 Camper's
loafers
dessert item 13 To the point 21 When many 
people have lunch 22 Cole who was "King" 
Puzzle by Nancy Salomon 
25 Babbler 28 Laugh waves 29 As well 32 Read a bar 
code 34 Stupid louts 35 Writer's angle 37 Ran 38 Sleep sound 39 Vain voyages? 

1-,;-1..:.:+:..:.i-:..;.i..;.;.i..;..:~ --+-e-+--+--+--+-A+-S--+-T-1 23 "  for All  40 Poached  
T E R  Seasons"  edibles  
I  S N  .;;;.;.i.~~~  0  V E  24 NBC's peacock  45 Shoot the  
R O S  ___._........___.__....__  M E E  and CBS's eye  breeze  

46 Football star's title 48 Lend an ear 49 Li'! one 50 Diner serving 51 Mail, in Marseille 52 Battling 
54 Jack of "Rio Lobo" 55 Robe 59 Wanted-poster letters 60 Chop (off) 61 "Absolutely!" 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Birthday Baby: You have your feet planted firmly on ~groha~~g~ never deviate from what you want to do. Intent on rea g w f If, you are a doer determined to succeed. yo(;;~edrr=? Check out E~genia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
C 2000 Univeisal Press Syndicate 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

RecSports Office Rolfs Sports Recreation Center

Deadline for all: March 2nd 
1-6100 • http://www.nd.edu/-recsport 

lnterhall Soccer (W) 

G/F /S Softball
Campus Floor Hockey 

IH 12" Softball (M&W) 



PORTS 
r\J:HE 
page 20 VfiSERVER 


More Bengals ... 
Coverage ofthe 70th Bengal Bouts continues inside with middle-and lightweight previews. 
page 16, 12 
Tuesday, February 29, 2000 

Heavyweights bring heavy hitting to semifinals 
By BILL HART Sport, 'v?rirer 
If Sunday's quarterfinals are any indication, tonight's Bengal Bout semifinals should provide plenty of hard-hitting action. But unlike the lighter weight classes. upsets have yet to appear on the radar screen. If anything, this should lead to some of the most exciting bouts of the tournament. 
175-pound division 
In one of the most tightly con­tested brackets of the tourna­ment, all four top seeds advanced to berths in tonight's bouts. Top sefld Torn "Thfl Tulsa Bomber" Biolchini picked up from where he left ofT on his last two titles, kI1ocking dmni Paul "Beast of the East" Riley just more than a minute into the first round. 
Biolchini will face off against fellow off-campus senior Tom "How Ya Like Me :'-Jow?" Dietrich. who knocked off Chris Viasnoras with a flurry of punch­es late in the third round. 
"Tom's obviously an excellent boxer," Dietrich said about the upcoming match. "I've got to stay away from his punches and put in a few ofmy own." 
The other bout of the division features two juniors, Steve "The Angry Pirate" Pfeiffer and Josh 
BENGAL BOUTS ,, 
"The Sandman,> Thompson, who each tallied decisive victories in their first jaunts in the ring. Pfeiffer knocked down sopho­more William Pep!'k 20 seconds into the third round by forcing him into a corner and scoring a left-right combo. Thompson's long reach and steady µacing Aarned him a unanimous deci­sion over sophomore Kurt Kurple, 
180-pound division 
Top seed Joey "Soda Pop" Leniski facPd a major challenge in the quarterfinals, earning a split decision over upsPt-mim.led sophomore Keith Arnold. 
"My first thoughts [during the bout] were that it was hard to determine the ranl<lngs," Leniski said about the bout. "Based on our sparring, all of us in our divi­sion are pretty close in our abili­ty. Keith was a tough competitor. but I wasn't surprised by how dif­ficult it was." 
Leniski will face Morrissey senior Doug "Sauce Doggy Dogg" Bartels, who 
see HEAVY/page 16 


WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish split Tobacco Road trip 
By KEVIN BERCH OU Sports Wriiter 
The results came as no. sur­prise. 
When the members of the Notre Dame women's tennis team glanced at the schedule and saw that thev would Notre Dame 5 
be ·playing NorthCarolina4 two ranked teams on the 
road on con-Wake Forest 5 secutive 
Notre Dame 4

days, they knew they were in for a battle. 
That's exactly what they got. 
After beating 33rd ranked North Carolina 5-4 on Saturday, the Irish figured they were in great shape to make an upset-minded nm at the fifth-ranked Demon Deacons of Wake Forest. Notre Dame did make a run, but couldn't manage the upset. as Wake Forest took two of three doubles matches, after splitting singles, to pull out a 5-4 victory. 
"They were both tight matches," head coach Jav Louderback said. "I though·t we adjusted well against North Carolina and won some big matches there, and against Wake we gave it all we had." 
The Irish kicked off the weekend by sticking it to the Tar Heels on their home court. Michelle Dasso, Nina Vaughan, Lindsey Green and Kimberly Guy won singles matches to give the ]rish a 4-2 advantage as the match shift­ed to doubles play. 
Normally strongest in dou­bles, the Irish women were a bit out of sorts Saturday. 
North Carolina shocked the Irish by taking the first two doubles matches to knot the score at 4. The Irish tandem of Dasso and Becky Varnum lost a tight match 8-6 to Marlene l\frjia and Erin 1\Jiebling, while Guy and Katie Cunha lost an Aven closer match to the Tar Heels' Kendrick Bunn and Kate Pinchbeck 9-8. Green and Kelly Zalinski staved off North Carolina's upset bid by winning the No. 3 doubles match 8-4. 

"That was uncharacteristic for us," Louderback said. "Our doubles have just been so good. It was just one of those days." 
Uncharacteristic doubles play was again a problem as losses in No. 1 and No. 2 dou­bles thwarted an Irish upset bid on Sunday. 
Notre Dame played brilliant­ly in the singles portion of the match, earning a 3-3 split with the nation's fifth ranked team. Dasso led the charge by stun­ning seventh ranked Adria Engel in straight sets. Vaughan and Green also net­ted victories. 
"Michelle was just fantastic," Louderback said. "She came out against Engel who has to be one of the best in the coun­try and just drilled her." 
Tied heading into doubles play, the Irish figured to have a great chance to stun the Demon Deacons on their home courts. The Irish have typical­ly been much better in doubles play than in singles and were 
see WOMEN/page 12 
SOFTBALL 
ND leaves Arkansas with three wins 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN Sports Writer 
Junior Jennifer Sharron and sophomore Jarrah Myers led Notre Dame in competition this weekend as they were named to t h e Morning N e w s Invit­ational all­tour n a ­m e n t team. 
T h e Irish, now 7-4 over­all, finished 3-3 over the weekend with wins over Virginia and Arkansas. 
Myers hit .316 f'rom the plate (6-for-19) with three runs, four RBIs and a home run to start the Irish scoring in a 6-l win against Virginia. 
Sharron pitched to a 1-l record on the mound. She 

threw 12 strikeouts in pitch­ing nine innings of the 10­inning loss to Missouri and earned a 1-0 shutout against Virginia while allowing just two hits. She also went 5-14 at the plate to grab a .367 aver­age for the weekend while adding an RBI and a double. 
Notre Dame started the weekend with two one-run losses in a double-header with Missouri. 
The Tigers grabbed a 5-4 win in game one. Down 1-0 going into the seventh with two outs, the Irish scored four runs to take the lead before Missouri retaliated with three to extend the game. Still 4-4 in the bottom of the 10th, the Tigers scored for the win on a sacrifice fly. 
In game two action tho Irish took an early load with two runs on RBI doublr,s by Myers and Danielle Klayman. Sharron doubled in the third 
see SOFTBALL/page 12 

vs. Syracuse Baseball vs. Michigan Stace 
at Pennsylvania 

Wednesday, 9 p.m. vs. Wake Forest Friday, 7:05 p.m. 
Saturday, I p.m. 

SPORTS • at Minneapolis, Minn. ~ AX 
Friday, 12:15 p.m. 
vs. Northwestern

ATA ~··1 Softball at Big Easr Tournament 
•·~=::z~l Wednesday, 4 p.m. ~t at Pacific Coast Doubles 
vs. Tennessee Storrs, Conn. 

Sf.
JJ La Jolla, Calif '-~-=~ 
Saturday, noon Sunday-Tuesday, TRA

Friday-Sunday
GLANCE 








