
Candidates in college 
WVFI goes global
Today's feature explores this year's 
The Observer staffapplauds lhe University's 

Friday
presidential candidates as they were during 
decision to lift a ban on Wv'Fl's global 
their Ivy League college days. 
Internet broadcasts. 
NOVEMBER 3,
Viewpoint . page 10
Scene . page 12 
2000 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 48 -HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 



Revival of woinen's colleges sparks Saint Mary's success 
By KATIE McVOY 
News Writer 
In a recent writing on the future of women's colleges, Saint Mary's president Marilou Eldred attributed the continued success of women·s colleges to two main reasons. 
"First, and most important, we offer a quality education," she wrote. "Second, we endure and even thrive because women's col­leges offer superior opportunities for women to achieve their person­al and professional goals." 
Only 2.5 percent of all females ·who attend college choose women's colleges. But, 1/3 of the female members of the 1992 Fortune 1000 companies, one in seven members of state cabinets, and 30 percent of women on a Business Week list of the 50 women rising in corporate America are graduates of women's colleges. 
Although the number of all female institutions fell sharply from over 200 in the 1%O's to 76 in 1997, women's colleges today seem to be on the rise again. After a peri­od of decline, this renaissance is good news to women's colleges such as Saint Mary's. But why the return to an all-women's educa­tion? 

"In various studies, graduates of women's colleges are more than hvice as likely as graduates of coed­ucational colleges to receive doctor­ate degrees," said Debbie Wesley, assistant director of admissions at Mount Holyoke College in South Hadley, Mass. "[And they're twice as likely] to enter medical school and receive doctorates in the natur­al sciences." 
Realizing the benefits 
An increasing number of women are realizing the advantages of attending a women's college. Most all surviving women's colleges are small, liberal arts institutions offer­ing undergraduate degrees. 
Many institutions arc located in the vicinity of a larger co-education­al institution, which offers a small, liberal art5 atmosphere as well as the experience and social opportu­nities associated ,,ith a larger mli­versity, much like Saint Mary's rela­tionship with Notre Dame. 
Barnard University, located in Morningside Heights in Manhattan, in close proximity to Columbia University, is another women's col­lege that has reaped the benefits of a large-university affiliation. 
"I think that we are in a particu­lar situation in that we're across the street and associated with Columbia," Dean of Admissions of Barnard Jennifer Fondiller said. "There is a perception that all women's colleges are isolated, but most are associated with co-educa­tional institutions which is very good." 
In addition, women's colleges 
see SMC /page 6 


Saint Mary's Freshman Class Sizes 
19971 344 I 
19981 425 
19991 455 
20001 511 
ELECTION COUNTDOWN 

AMANDA GRECOfl'he Observer 
Republican presidential candidate, Govenor George W. Bush, stands before a crowd of his supporters at a Lake Michigan College rally last Friday. See pages 7 through 9 inside for a news analysis of the running mates' issue differences, predictions of election turnout, and new coverage of Bush's drunk driving accusations, respectively. 



Dalloway's menus, security concern students 
By MYRA McGRIFF 
News Writer 
Security and menu choices are two concerns being voiced by the student body in reaction to the grand opening of Dalloway's, the student snack bar and social center that replaced the now-closed coffee shop in the Clubhouse. 
The building, one of the first projects in the Campus Master Plan. opened unofficially last week. But the opening of the coffee shop forced food services to limit nighttime service at The Crossings snack bar, located in Haggar College Center. 
The Crossings, a full-service snack bar, was formerly open from 11 a.m. until 12 p.m.. The hours are now cut back to 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. The limited hours are mainly due a lack of campus demand, said Linda Tiinm, vice presi­dent of student affairs. 
"To have four food areas running at the some time during lunch is fine but after the rush we can afford to close some down," said Timm. "So in response, Haggar's hours were adjusted." 
The decision to set definite hours for Dalloway's operation was also to set up consis­tency, Timm said. Dalloway's currently oper­ates.from 11 a.rn. until 12 p.m. weekdays, and until 1 a.m. on weekends. 
"Students never knew the hours of the old Clubhouse, so we wanted to set up the new Dalloway's with a consistent time it would be open," said Timm. 
But Dalloway's, which is not a full-service snack bar, does not offer the food options available in Haggar. Some students are con­cerned that the food items offered at Haggar cannot be purchased at Dalloway's when 
see DALLOWAY'S /page 4 
Friday, November 3, 2000

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 




Saving my life 
An earring saved my life the other day. 
Well, maybe not my life, but at least my sanity. I was blow-drying my hair and I was, in my latest trend. running late for class. 
As I bent over to dry the wettest part of my head, l looked down at all the hair and bits of dried leaves on the floor and made a mental note: No. 42 on my never-ending list, clean the germ-infested dump I call a bathroom. 
Just then J looked over at my soap-scum sink at a potentially dangerous situa­tion for my favorite earrings. Christine Krafy


One of my most precious sil­ver hoops was facing an ulti­mate doom as it gradually Assistant slid toward the drain -per­Managing manently open because Mr. 
Editor 
Fix-It hasn't come by yet to 
repair it. 
"I can be late with wet hair and have the dirti­est bathroom in College Park, but I am NOT los­ing those earrings.'' I told myself. Just then I dropped the hair dryer and saved the hoops from an untimely death. 
And for some reason, I started laughing. And even walking the long walk down Bulla Road to campus, the laughing continued, this time in my head. 
These were earrings -not love, money or even homework -that I was watching tumble toward the drain. They do little more for me than merely decorate my earlobes. But at that point, they were the difference between happiness and hell. 
It was then that I had realized my life was spin­ning out of control -at least enough not to know what was really important anymore: my sanity. Por weeks the same three things had been danc­ing in my mind and, ultimately, driving me crazy: the search for a job, The Observer and finding time to have a life. I had just come off the faU break high ofspending a terrific week in Las Vegas with my best friends. Elvis and falling slot machine quarters had drowned out my problems and for seven days, I was worry-free. 

Then reality set in when I stepped back on cam­pus, and the presidential election became the cherry on top. It seemed all anyone wanted to ask me was what I'm doing when I graduate or whom I'm voting for. Let's talk about trees or even bub­ble gum. I don't want tax plans to run my life or my conversation. 
Ufo was again not life but merely surviving each day without ripping out my hair. I opened the door to my mental health and ushered my worries in to steal it away. It took the ridiculous disaster of losing jewelry to make me realize that I wasn't having fun and was just having headaches. 
And as I sit here typing this, "Come on OverM by Christina Aguilera blares from my radio and I want to scream. It's hard enough not to stress when you feel the world on your shoulders Vvith­out a scantily-clad teen pop star reminding you that yep, she already has a job. She's got a job and money and apparently numerous men wanti­ng to "come on over, baby." Great, Christina, thanks. Ufe wasn't looking difficult enough. 
But l'm trying not to think about life so much and just enjoy it. I'm trying not worry about work, or trying to find time to fill this space; Ijust want to fill it. 
And when trying to see the lighter side, I think back to the last time I saw Aguilera perform on MTV and one thing makes me smile: she has really ugly earrings. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene 
Kare Nagengasc Amanda Greco Maribel Morey Graphics Scott Brodfuehrer Dana Mangnuson 
Sports Production 
Kathleen O'Brien Andrew Soukup Noah Amstadrer Tod Niero 
Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Pat Kelly Emesro Lac;;iyo 

The Obscrvrr (USPS 599 2-4000) i, publi,hcd Monday through Friday ,xc,pr during cx,m and v:.c:uion l"'riods. The Observer is• memb,,r of rhe A»ociarcd l'ress. All rcpnxluc<ion rights arc rc:;ervcd. 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 


UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 
Prof. survives Singapore air crash 
An assistant engineering professor and his family are among the survivors of Singapore Airlines flight SQ006 that crashed in Taipei before takeoff Tuesday. Professor Yang Yang, his wife Mei Dan Lee and 2-year-old son Jonathan suffered only minor injuries in the crash that killed at least 79 people and injured 39 others. Airline officials say the plane appeared to hit an object on the runway before breaking apart and bursting into flames. Yang, who is currently on sabbatical, was returning to Los Angeles after lecturing at Taiwan's Industrial Technology Research Institute. He phoned Leslie Hinman of the School of Engineering and Applied Science on Tuesday morning to inform her about the crash and his condition. "He was so calm," Hinman said in a statement. Yang also told Hinman to "let my students know" he was all right. Yang's return to the United States has been delayed because he lost his personal belongings, including his passport, in the crash. 


LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
Holy Cross priest arrested in Chile Pope names Notre Dame priest as Bishop 
Nov. 7, 1975 Nov. 3, 1997 Members of the Holy Cross Congregation denounced the Pope Paul II appointed Father Daniel Jenky as an auxil­arrest of Holy Cross priest, Father Gerald Whelan, by iary bishop for the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend. Chile's military government and its search for other Jenky was the rector of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. priests and sisters accused of aiding revolutionaries. "It's a sacrament," he said of the ordination. "Although I'm 
Whelan was arrested and imprisoned. He was charged scared, I think it'll be a special grace. God's been very with giving medical aid for members of the underground good to me." Born in Chicago in 194 7, Jenky arrived at Revolutionary Left Movement (MIR). Notre Dame i.n 1965 as an undergraduate. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Napster agrees to charge users for MP3 service 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
While the new agreement may help 
Napster announced an agreement to preserve Napster and legitimize its with German media giant Bertelsmann use. many Harvard University students. Tuesday, under which the music-shar­part of Napster's core college-age ing service will begin to charge its demographic, considered the compro­online members, funneling some of the mise a sellout. profits to record companies and the "I think the original concept was artists that hold copyrights on the great, but having to pay changes it all," songs. Jonathan Yu '02 said. "I wouldn't pay to 
The agreement effectively ends the use Napster." involvement of Bertelsmann subsidiary "It's a way for them to get more BMG in a lawsuit filed against the rene­agreed to lend Napster a substantial money," Victoria Trendafilova '03 said. gade company, although its effect on amount of money to help finance the "I don't think I'm going to bother sub­other major labels -and on a request transition, and, in turn. will receive an scribing to it." made to Harvard to ban students from option to buy a part of the company. Others maintained that the agree­using the site -remains unclear. Bertelsmann officials also said they ment was warranted and fair. 
BMG represents a slew of top acts, would try to convince the other litigants "Since Napster was never turning a like Usher and the Dave Matthews to cooperate with Napster. profit. it's clear that the fact that they Band. Though details still have to be worked are going to be forced to charge for 
Bertelsmann's chief executive officer. out, under one proposal, Napster would music now means that they aren't in it Thomas Middelhoff, said his company charge its users a $4.95 monthly fee. for greed," said Ben Delbanco '02. 



NEW YORK UNIVERSITY 
Graduate assistants to form union 
New York University graduate assistants may form a union -the first of its kind at any private university in the nation -the National Labor Relations Board ruled yesterday. The ruling could open the door for GAs at pri­vate universities nationwide to unionize; public university GAs have been unionized for decades. The NLRB upheld Regional Director Daniel Silverman's April ruling that graduate assistants [GAs] are employees, not just stu­dents, as NYU officials have argued. Silverman's decision permitted the first union election at a private university, the resull'i of which have been sealed since NYU appealed the ruling last spring. The decision said NYU GAs, like workers in a similar case involving the Boston Medical Center, are employees because their status as students does not preclude them from being employees. "Like the Regional Director, we find there is no basis to deny collec­tive-bargaining rights to statutory employees merely because they are employed by an educational institution in which they are enrolled as students," the decision said in part. 
S Day South Bend Forecast 
ArcuWe.ither l'lirecastlordaytime cooditirns and hi tern atures 
The AccuWeathert> forecast for noon, Friday, Nov. 3. 
0 2000 AccuWNthltr, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Bunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy ~•A..•CICJ4!1NPr... 

Atlanta 80 63 Las Vegas 68 51 Portland 62 48 Baltimore 67 46 Memphis 71 53 Sacramento 71 44 Boston 56 47 Milwaukee 58 39 St. Louis 58 42 Chicago 62 41 New York 63 50 Tampa 82 58 Houston 78 66 Philadelph,a 66 47 Washm{lfon, DC 75 54 

Friday, November 3, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Saint Mary's celebrates Day of the Dead 
By KATIE MILLER 
N~ws Writer 
Led by candles and hand bells, a procession of members of the Saint Mary's community made its way through Queen of Peace 
-Cemetery. stopping to visit the graves or Saint Mary's departed as part or the celebration of' El Dia de los Muertos (Day of the Dead) Thursdav. First ~isitcd was the grave of Mother Pauline. college president from 1895-1931. During her years as president, Mother Pauline built the infirmarv. Holv Cross Hall and LeMans hall~ • "When Mother Pauline came to Saint Mary's, there was no college, only an acad1m1y. She put Saint Mary's at the collegiate level. She built Holy Cross I!all when there were only 200 students at Saint Mary's," said Sister Gertrude Ann. "Mother Pauline had deep faith and an acceptance ofGod's vvill." Mother Madeleva's grave was visited next. According to Ann, Madeleva came to Saint Mary's as a transfer student. After she grad­uated. she received her master's degree in English from Notre Dame. She then went on to become the first religious woman to attend Berkeley where she received her doctorate. She was later the president of Saint Mary's for 27 vears. "She· continued the building pro­gram and was well known abroad. Madeleva founded the school of theology, the first place in the 
country where women could study the subject,'' said Ann. ''She had 1.he ability to dream and the capac­itv for hard work." 
· After visiting the graves of the two former presidents, the proces­sion completed their celebration in LeMans outside of Stapleton around an ofrenda (altar) that was constructed with pictures and cards with names of deceased family and friends. 
Members of the Saint Marv's community who died in the past year were remembered. Nancy Fallon, editor of the Courier, was remembered bv friends as a woman of simplicity. grace. and understated beauty. Kristi Morris, a senior last year who died in a car accident on spring break, was also commemorated. 
Mary was a model for Morris. said friend Judy Fee, who was in attendance at the procession. "She was not afraid to talk about her faith. She led many to God; her spirit lives on at Saint Mary's." 
The celebration was concluded with song and prayer. 
"I think its beautiful that so many people from Saint Mary's community could come and pray today," said junior Monica Mendoza. "Today was a different look at life; death is a part of life." 
Day of the dead organizer Evel}'ll Gonzalez was pleased with the celebration. 
"I thought the turnout was good; the altar was full. Death is univer­sal; it doesn't have to be a cultural event. It was nice to share with the community," said Gonzalez. 

New free speech c_oalition Dieets 
By JASON McFARLEY 
A.ssisrant News Ediror 
Amid waning attendance Thursday night. members of the Coalition for Pree Speech discussed means to garner campus support and club sponsorship of the week-old organization. 
Seven peoplt> attended the second meeting of the newly formed coalition, a number a.bout 1/3 of the attendance figure from the group's founding meeting last Friday. The low turnout prompted some concerns that the issue of free speech might not be catching on among Notre Dame students. 
"[deally, this is the project of several clubs and org-ani­zations,'' said Aaron Kreider, a member of the Progressive Student Alliance (PSA). "Right now. we don't have that," he said to a showing comprised primarily of other PSA members as well as phi­losophy professor Ed Manier. 
Kreider said he's hoping for causal endorsement and financial support from vari­ous campus organizations, including student govern­ment. 
Manier cautioned the group that the decreased atten­dance and lack of campus enthusiasm may not be indicative of the amount of support the coalition can cul­tivate. 
"The fact that people aren't here doesn't mean they're 

not dedicated to the cause," he said. 
Some seemingly believed otherwise. as they discussed using various forms of cam­pus media_ to publicize the coalition's work and boost student turnout at meetings. In particular. members set­tled on placing advertise­ments in The Observer and writing biweekly 
letters to "When you say you want students. the editor. professors
people to know about 
Manier a n d 
said before something, you have to University any letters make sure you have a officials are sub­together to
clear sense ofwhat 
mitted to discuss con­
you want them to
T h e cerns about Observer, know about. " free speech. members The work should by the coali­
Ed Manier
consider tion is in 
dr.afting a philosophy professor preparation 
mission statement that clearly articulates the organization's goals. 
"When you say you want people to know about some­thing, you have to make sure you have a clear sense of what you want them to know about," Manier said. 
Throughout the hour-long meeting, members them­selves were often unclear about what the mission state­ment should include. 
Manier, for example, spoke about reforming and break­ing existing University rules regarding club formation. 
He said existing rules stifle innovation and make it diffi­
cult to organize groups. The PSA would have never been formed if some rules hadn't been broken. he said. 
But senior Brendan Dowdall, Dillon hall senator, said Cniversity administra­tors might respond negative­ly to a statement that makes men.tion of' any policy viola­tions. Dowdall suggested a forum that would bring 
for a propos­
al the group will present to the Office of Student Affairs in February. 
The proposal will highlight areas of free speech in which the c.oalition believes the University could improve. 
Dowdall said it's likely he will also introduce a resolu­tion based on the proposal into the Student Senate by next spring. 
"We want to make this a gradual process and slowly build campus support," Dowdall said. 
"One of the dangers of throwing this idea right out there is that it could easily be rejected." 



' iJJ -.,"Jlr, 




Come to the Major Fair. Lafortune Ballroom. Sunday, November 5th From 6-8pm. 
Ask questions and get information from professors and students from different departments. 
, J·' I '.; J _. ·1 , n I! Tl" J IJ; 1 ·· • J . I l -~ l • 'Z /, 
----------------------------~-------------------­
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 3, 2000 
Timm. The food providers for Saint Mary's campus,

Dalloway's 
Sodexho Marriott. want to start trying out new continued from page l foods and specials for lunch and dinner. The new Dalloway's will also have specialty bever­
Haggar is closed. ages and coffees. "Between 2 p.m. and 4:30 p.m. there is noth­"We want to have different hot specials each ing hot to cal or ffullf meals offered on campus," day and bring in a variety of foods," said Kevin 
said Danielle Greer, a Saint  Kirwan, director of food ser­ 
Mary's sophomore.  vices.  
Many students are also  "l think it is going to take  Even though students are  
concerned about the security risk that the walk to  a little getting used to.  voicing concern over the new Dalloway's Timm wants stu­ 
Dalloway's poses. Ilaggar,  The more students use  dents to  give it some time.  
connected to three of four  the facility the more it  With the grand opening and  
residence halls by the tunnel system, did not require stu­ will draw them."  dedication of the Welcome Center and Dalloway's on Nov.  
dcnts to take a long, dimly-lit  lO, she thinks students will  
walk to get to the snack bar.  Linda Timm  warm up to the changes.  
Dalloway's, located just off the Av,\ntm and not connect­ vice president of student affiars  "I think it is going to take a little getting used to. The more  
eel by tunnels, is a long walk  students use the facllity the  

from most campus rt"'sidence halls. more it will draw them," said Timm. 
Smnc studcnl'> de, not feel safe walking out to Timm also said in January the administration the new clubhouse at night. especially in light of will evaluate how Dalloway's is functioning. this semester's attacks on 
campus. "I work late at night and 
used to cat dinner at 1laggar," said Diana Perez, a Saint Mary's sophomore. "But now Lhat tho only place open is l'ar away and I don't foci safe,..! just don't cat din­ner now. · 
For the safety issues voiced by students. Timm suggest students go in groups and stay in well-lit arnas. Areas ol concern am also being addressed. 
"The sidewalks arc well-lit and I would tell student to stay to the sidewalks. The courtyard around Madelcva does pose a concern and will/ b11 assessed," said Timm. 
1 

In response to the limited selection, Timm assures the menu will expand in time and the menu now is a jump­ing off point. 
"The staff is training now, on the equipment and learn­ing how to make the items. With additional help, expand­ing the menu will begin. Things arc progressing," said 

BE INFORMED 



RECSPORTS-NEWS 
(LISTSERV) 
PROVIDING INFORMATION ABOUT: INTRAMURAL PROGRAMS FITNESS CLASSES INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAMS CLUB SPORTS SPECIAL EVENTS RECREATIONAL FACILITIES 
SUBSCRIBE AT THE RecSports WEB SITE: www.nd.edu/.....,recsport 
NEWS BRIEF 
Snite hosts symposium: In an all-day symposium Sunday at McKenna Hall. the well-known Jewish artist Samuel Bak will speak about his exhibition at the Snitc: Transformation and Transfiguration: The Art of Samuel Bak. His paintings reex­amine the icons of Jewish memory and belief and help focus on the legacy of the Holocaust. This exhibition will feature approxi­mately 25 landscapes and figurative works. A Holocaust survivor himself, Samuel Bak was born in 1933 in Vilna, Poland, emigrat­ed to Israel, where he studied art, and now works and lives in Weston, Mass. 

~01RlE 10),~JE 




A~1rrrMJE~s 
.. 2 Bdrm Apts Available .. Student Leases Available -Under $500 per Month .. 4 Blocks From Campus -2nd Semester Availabiiity 

"The Best Value In Off Campus Living" 
Professionally Managed by Rea! Estate Management Corp. 


234-9923 

cinema@thesnite ~'. ~-~~~-,~~:::,~~-:·. ' ..,_ . . ~ ;. . ·:: ·: .-:.:_ Fri. & Sat. 7:30 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. presented by ND Film_.. Television, and Theatre www.nd.eau/--cothweb  11EBII BIG EAST WOMEN'S ERR SOCCER CHAMPIONSHIP CONFERENCE Friday, Nov. 3 Semifinals -­Syracus e 5 pm vs. Connecticut #1 NOTRE DAME 7 pm vs. Boston College Sunday, Nov. 5 12 pm FINALS  
8°/o of\8to~ye3roldsdo j1ot vote ID theirfederalelect ions. _,,,..,__...,.Fill the Vold Vote on November 7, 200  




ATION 
Friday, November 3, 2000 C0MPIU:m fR0M THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

Gang seizes Turkish prison: Members of an underworld gang took control of a Turkish prison in rioting that left five inmates dead. including four who wore thrown out a window, authorities said Thursday. Mc~mbers of the Karagumruk gang held 2·6 prison officials and guards hostage at the Usak prison near the Aegcun wast city of Izmir, Lhe Justice Ministry said. It said plans to storm the prison were can­celed after the rioters announced they would surrender Friday. 
Fijan troops seize barracks: Elite sol­diers who apparently feared being drummed out of the army over a May coup seized Fiji's rnairi military barracks Thursday and took hostages, but were flushed out by regular army troops in gun battles. Eight people were killed, including five rebellious soldiers, and another 14 soldiers and eight civilians were injured. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Cole report to examine Pentagon: 
Hetircd military officers heading a review of the USS Cole bombing said Thursday they will look for ways to improve the Pentagon's support sys­tem for U.S. forces abroad and won't place blame on individuals for failing to avoid the attack in a Yemeni port. "We are not out here to find fault with anybody," retired Adm. I larold Gehman told a Pentagon news confer­ence. 
BellSouth, ATI settle probe: BellSouth will pay the government $750,000 to settle an investigation into whether the company ran afoul of the law in negotiations with rivals seek­ing to lease its equipment, regulators said Thursday. The Federal Communications Commission also announced settlements with three -long-distance carriers for failing to give consumers calling from hotels or pay phones information about prices and other options. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 


Plane makes emergency landing: 
A Comair plane carrying 42 passengers made an emergency landing Thursday in Indianapolis after a warning light alerted pilots to a problem in the hydraulics system. Comair night 5748 was traveling from Des Moines, Iowa, to Cincinnati when a warning light came on in the cockpit, according to a report on Indianapolis television station WRTV. The plane landed safely about 2 p.m , WRTV reported. There were no injuries. Comair, based in Cincinnati, is a regional jet service owned by Delta Airlines. 
Market Watch 11 /02 
Dow 

]ONES Up: 1.799 AMEX:  10,880.51 Same: 489 •902:.16  -71067 Composite Volume: NIA  
Nasdaq:  3429.02  -36.24  
NYSE:  ,664,SO  
 
S&P 500:  1428.32  +7.10  

TOP5VOLUMELEADERS COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE WORLDCOM INC (WCOM) -7.27 -1.37 17.5& URAf:LE CURI' (ORCL) -578 -1 81 it:!.56 1'5JNliTJNC {J'SJX) .5r,_3; 3.79 1.94 li'IHL CORI' (f'JTC) t4 04 +1.8 ! 4fi.61J CI.ICO >YSTEM5 (CSCO) .6.95 +3.62 5SJS 
ISRAEL 


Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
A thunderous car bomb killed two Israelis near a crowded Jerusalem market on Thursday, escalating tensions as Israeli and Palestinian leaders put off a truce announcement meant to end five weeks of fight­ing. 
Islamic militants claimed responsibility for the blast, which killed the daughter of a right-wing Israeli political leader. Elsewhere, Palestinian areas were again aflame, with two Palestinians killed and at least 80 injured in the West Bank, doctors and rescue workers said. 

The violence endangered 
-and may have scuttled ­
the latest in a series of 
cease-fire agreements. 
Israeli Prime Minister 
Ehud Barak and Palestinian 
leader Vasser Arafat initial­
ly planned to simultaneous­
ly declare a truce at 2 p.m. 
The announcements were 
delayed with the expecta­
tion they would come a few 
hours later 
But shortly after 3 p.m., a Mazda car loaded with explosives detonated on a -narrow residential street less than 200 yards from the congested Mahane 
Yehuda market. 
Flames leaped high into 
the air, sending up huge black plumes of black smoke as wailing ambu­lances converged on the working-class area lined with old stone apartment buildings. Eleven people ­including four children ­were slightly injured in addition to the two killed. 
Police identified the dead as Hanan Levy, 32, and Ayelet Hashahar-Levy, 24. They were not related. 
Ayelet Hashahar-Levy was the daughter.ofYitzhak Levy, leader-of the National Religious Party. Yitzhak Levy has served as a minis­ter in several Israeli gov­ernments. He left his post in Barak's _government because of disagreements over the peace process. 
His daughter had just moved to Jerusalem and was bringing her belong­ings to a house in the area at the time of the explosion, police said. One witness said he tried to pull her from the flames. 
"I saw her on the ground and her legs had been blown off," said Yaakov Hassoum. "I hoped she was alive, but she was dead." 
Hundreds of onlookers clogged the streets as policemen pushed the crowd back. Some young Israelis chanted, "Death to Arabs" and "We want revenge." 
ITALY 

Battle erupts over pill distribution 
life. pharmacists are members of the 
Associated Press 

By law, pharmacists in Italy must Union of Catholic Pharmacists, VATICAN CITY provide customers with all govern­according to its president, Piero 
A church-state battle has erupted in ment-approved medicines. Uroda. · Italy after the Vatican condemned a In interviews published in Catholic Italy's health minister, Umberto "morning-aftt. r" pill and urged phar­news media Thursdav, Cardinal Veronesi, a prominent cancer special­macists not to sell it. Camillo Ruini, president ~f the Italian L'it, said he was disturbed by the call 
The pill went on sale this week, list­Bishops Conforence, assailed the gov­aimed at pharmacists. ed by the Health Ministry as a ernment's authorization of the pill. Interviews at several drug stores in "method of emergency contracep­He argued pharmacists should be downtown Rome suggested they tion." But the Vatican called it a form permitted to take 1;1dvantage of a would abide by the law. of chemical abortion and said phar­clause in Italy's abortion law that "We could be charged. If somebody macists should be conscientious allows doctors and nurses to declare shows up with a prescription we can't objectors against "new hidden forms themselves conscientious objectors. refuse to give out a medicine," phar­of aggression" threatening human Some 500-600 of Italy's 64,000 macist Giovanni Scarfo said. 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 3, 2000 
fits ofti1at atmosphere. "(The sturtentsJ dirtn't choose it
SMC 

001.:ausc it was a women's college, women's education. With tho advent of the Civil Rights move­ment, changes in legislature and social norms resulted in many pre­viously all male institutions opening their doors to women. As a result. many womrm's collegos merged witl1 male wlleges, became co-edu­cational themselves. or wen~ fbrcf'd to close because of increased com­petition between institutions of higher oducation. 
The movement took its toll. By 1993 only 83 women's collegPs existed; that number has fallen Lo 76 today. Notre Dame opened its doors to women in 1972. Despite the pressure to merge with Notre Dame. Saint Mary's chose to remain independent because it wished to retain it.-. identitv and the advantages of an all-women's col­lege. 
Looking to the future 
Despite the toll the Civil Rights movement took on the number of women's colleges in the United States, the institutions that remain appear to have a bright future. 
"Women's colleges are enjoying something of a rebirth these days," 
November ·7 -November 10 9am -9pm November 11 9am -5pm free admission open to the public Century Center Convention Hall B 
120 South St. Joseph St., South Bend, IN 46601 
We accept VISA, MasterCard, American Express'~ J.Crew credit cards. cash, anrl personal checks (wrth proper identification) 
Directions, From the North or South· St. Joseph Street i~ a northbound one-way str1:et, the continuntron of Business US 31. through downtown South Bend. From the South, the Century Center i, on the right side of the street next to the nver. The parking lot rs on the south side ot the Center. Frum the Norttr. US 31/933 becomes Main Street (one way southbound) in downtown South Bend. Follow ,outhb111md. turn let\ to Jellerson, turn left to St Josepl1 Street. Century Center 1~ on the right side. · From the East, Indiana Toll Road 80/90 westbound, look tor South Bend Exit 77 Notre Dame. Turn right at the bottom of the ramp, head southbound on US 311933 into the middle of town Iurn lett at Jefferson Street into the Century Center puking lot 294 westbound, exit Route 12 towards Niles. Cross US 31 and St. Joseph River Exit US 31/933 
to South Bend. fake aleft on Jefferson Street, Century Center parhing is at the end ot the street. From the West Indiana Toll Road 80/90 eastbound, look fur South ~end f.xit 77 Notre Dame Tu1n 1iglrt at the llotlom of tire ramµ, head sot1ti1buu11d on US 311933 into the rr11ddle ot the town Turn let! at .letterson Street into the Century Center parkmg lot. 294 eastbound. across lire M1ch1gan state lrne, the secund exit is marked Route !2 Niles. Exit and twn right on Route 12. Cross US JI and St Joseph River. Exit US 31L933 to Soulh Bend Take aleft on Jefferson Strnet Century Center parking rs at the end of the street 
continued from page l 
offer leadership experience and mentoring opportunities, and nncnurnge women to pursue acade­mic goals. "I think W(J focus on the positive aspects of' women's <.:01­h\gc," said Mary Pat Nolan. director of admissions at .Saint Mary's. "Ltiadership opportunities, mentor­ing, coop1•rntive learning and the bcncliL-; of developing long term fri1>0d<ihips arc all things wn locus on." Hmmarch has shown that grad­u.1.tes from women's colleges are very likt'ly to pursue higher educa­tion in the fonn of master's degrees or Ph.D. and take prominent posi­tions in society. 
Only 0.5 percent of all college graduates rcceivP degrees from women's institutions, but 12 mem­bers of the 105th U.S Congrnss are gruduates of all women's institu­tions. 
Women's colleges often provide mentoring opportunities in the fom1 offomalc laculty and staff 
"About 25 percent of' all college profossors are women," Fondiller said. ''J\t Barnard, 60 percent of the faculty are women. There is a con­scious effort to provide female role modcb." 
Student.<; of all women's colleges may not choose the college because it is all women. Some choose the college bccall'iC of' it.<; afliliation with a larger institution or because of specific degree olforings. However. most graduates of all women's col­leges learn to appreciate the bcne­but they come apprl'ciatc it because it is an all-women's college," Fondiller said. 

Founding women's education 
While women's colleges offer a unique opportunity in the 21st cen­tury lo pm'Sue educaticm. women's education was not always embrau;d. Manifr.sted in these pre­revolution attitudP..s, womPn's col­leges emerged to provide women with educational opportunity. 
During the founding years of the United Sl.atf'.5. institutions of higher learning only opened their doors to men. llowcver. following the revo­lution, women became increasingly int.crested in pursuing education. 
In 1772 Salem CoUege in North Carolina became the first institute of higher learh.ing to open its doors to women. Sixty-four years later, Wesleyan College in Georgia grant­ed the first degrees to women. 
It was onlv a vear latRr that male colleges and ~niversitics began opening their doors to women. Oberlin's Collegiate Department accepted four women in 1837 to make it the first co-educa­tional facility on the college levfll. 
Women's colleges continued to spring up and flourish throughout the 19th century and tl1rough the mid-20Lh cen­tury. In 1960, there were more than 200 women's colleges in the United SI.ates. 
However, the 1960's and 1970's saw a new trend in 
Eldred wrote. "Admissions num­
bers at Saint Mary's were up 25 
percent la'>t year and many other 
women's colleges also reported 
i.J1crcases." 
Barnard reported a 30 percent increase sinco 1995. The question arises as tu why this increase is occurring. "I think it's a cyclical thing," Nolan said. "People are more interested in women·s col­leges now." 
Although interest in colleges may be cvclical. the rebirth in women's colleges does not seem to be a fluke. 
With the recent creation or the Women's College Coalition, all women's colleges are uniting in their efforts to encourage women to consider and attend these types of institutions. Through the workings of this coalition and the cooperation of most women's colleges in the United States, women's colleges have taken a larger part in spommr­ing and co-sponsoring national col­lege conv,entions. 
"There is a greater collaborative spirit," Nolan said. "One of the things that has brought women's colleges to the forefront is the Women's College Coalition." 
In addition to national recognition among colleges, the spirit or collab­oration has encouraged morn extensive media coverage of all women's colleges and more research into the benefil<; of atumd­ing an all women's college. Public ligurcs who are graduates or all women's colleges have helped draw attention to the idea of' all women's institutions. 
"I hope [the incrmJSe in interest[ is because we've been doing a t(ir­rific job getting the message out," Fondiller said. ''You sec a lot of women leaders who have graduat­ed from all women's colleges and there is better medium publicity." 
In addition. women's colleges have taken advantage of the tech­nological revolution that is sw,~cp­ing across the United States. 
"In my opinion, the student that attends a women's college or a coed institution L'i still tJw same. but Ilic method that women's colleges use in its recruitment elforl'i has defi­nitely evolved," Wesley said. "Studenl<; are quite computer savvy and meeting their needs means changing how we communicate with them through technology." 
UNIVK.RSrTV OF NOTRE DAME 
lNTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS ?01 SECURITY BUTLOING N-olre Dame, Indian ¦ 46:556 1': 611-5882 FH! 15.Jl-5711 
tijl}[fA 1 
.. 
IJ ·. 
~ 
---........__ 

TOLEDO, SPAIN 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Bridget Green, Assistant Director International Study Programs 
Tuesday November 7, 2000 
4:45 PM 102 DeBartolo 
Applications available www/nd.edu/~intlstud Application Deadline: December I, 2000 

Student Workers Needed 
1o help assist other srudencs using rhe temporary DART registration system ar the Registration Center, G 184 Hesburgh Library from 
1h 

November 8 through December 1" 
Hours: 9:00 arn ro 5:00 pm 
Dates: 

Nowmber 8, 9, 10, 14, 15, 16, 20, 21, 28, 29, 30, Dec..:ember I 
\Y/e need student help throughout the day ... you pick your time you are availahle 
Please Contact: Arlene Vogt, Assistant Regi~trar, I05 Main Building, Registrar's Office 631-6050 
Friday, November 3, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 

Gift creates Jewish professorship 
The long-term commitment to .Jewish studies By NlCK SWEEDO 
by the University is a small part of the current News Wrircr 
Jewish commitment to conversation with the Christian community, according to Najman, 
With a new professorship in Jewish studies. who, graduated in 1998 frum Harvard the University is fostering dialogue of Judaism University with a doctorate in within a Christian community, the history of ancient biblical said llindy Najman, assistant interpretations.
"ft shows a real commit­
professor of theology. "Hindy is an expert in 
Notre Dame has created the ment by the Jewish com­Rabbinics, the classical professorship with a $1 mil­munity to want to be in sources of the Jewish theologi­lion gift donated by .Jordan cal andrcligious tradition,"
conversation with
Kapson. The Jordan Kapson said John Gavadini, chair of Chair will be held by Najman. Catholicism in order to the theology department. "We're really appreciative of promote a better under­"The department of theology the Kapson gift," said is delighted that Hindy
standing, respect and
University president Father received this appointment. It Edward Malloy, "because it dialogue. " is an honor that is wcll­allows us to make our mark in dcserved." the Christianity-Judaism dia­When money is donated tu
Edward Malloy 

logue in a way we could never form a chair, the interest of
University president
achieve without it." that money is used to pay the 
"It shows a real commitment chair holder's salary. by the .Jewish community to As donator, Kapson is. want to be in conversation with Catholicism in ensured the choice of subject taught by the order to promote a better understanding, University. respect and dialogue," Najman said. "It's a Kapson is the founder and owner of the transformalive moment in the history of Jordan Automotive Group, the largest car deal­Catholicism to recognize the need to study ership in the countrv, which has locations in .Judaism." Elkhart and Mishawaka. 


NOTRE DAME COLLEGE REPUBLICANS 
Present 


U.S. Senator John McCain 
Speaking on Behalf of 

CHOCOLA 
.· ('()\GRESS 
With Special Guests 

U.S. Senator Chuck Hagel 
U.S. 
Representative J.C. Watts 

U.S. 
Representative Tom Davis 


U.S. Representative Lindsey Graham 
This Saturday, November 4, 2000 
FREE Bus Transportation to Airport from Main Circle at 12:45 
Special Seating for Notre Dame Students 
Profs: Gore, Lieberman differences affect little 
For example, Lieberman was

By ERIN PIROUTEK 
willing to consider a nation11-t 
Senior Staff Writer 
mLc;sile defense system and the 
privatization of Social Security, 
The past of each presidential both of which Bush supports. candidate is under careful Hush abo believes in vouchers scrutiny in this close race. for private education to give par­
Although a candidate's personal ents another option when public history is normally considered schools fail. Gore adamantly within an election, it is critical opposes vouchers, instead focus­considering that anything sway­ing on more funding for troubled ing a few swing-state voters schools. Uebcrman has support­could e d ·win or limit­
d t h e 
Io s e "' CAMPAIGN 2000 ~ e 
us e election. of vouchers to help those from 
When Vice President Al Gore low-income neighborhoods selected Senator .I oseph escape from failing public Lieberman as his running _mate, schools. much of the media buzz focused But professors agreed that on his .Jewish faith. Critics, how­Gore and Liberman's policy dif­
ever, also noted that ferences had minor impact on Lieberman's views on several the campaign. important L,;sues were closer to "I don't think it's made any dif­
those of Republican presidential ference," said John Roos, Notre candidate George W. Hush than Dame government professor. Gore. "Basically ILicbcrmanl has indi­cated clearly that he's the Vice 
President's second on the tick­
et." 
The differences between Gore 

and Lieberman can be classified 
as policy differences, rather than 
disagreements on core values. 
From the beginning of the cam­
paign Gore and Lieberman have 
worked to present a united front 
on working to help the middle­
class. 
"Al Gore and I have pretty 

much walked the same path and 
when we've had disagreements 
they've been good-faith dis­
agreements, never disagree­
ments that touch our values," 
Lieberman told reporters at an 
August rally. 
It isn't unusual for a running 

mate to have different opinions 
than the main candidate. 
"The clearest analogy could be when Dukakis chose Lloyd Benson as his running mate in 1988," said Sean Savage, associ­ate professor of political science at Saint Mary's. Benton was more conservative, voting for some of the Reagan' Administration tax cuts that Dukakis had opposed. 
In that election, however, George Bush triumphed. But Democrats hope that Lieberman will provide an extra boost to this year's battle with a member of the Bush family. 
"The typical argument made is that [the choice of Lieberman] actually strengthens the ticket, it doesn't weaken it," said Savage. "I think in choosing Lieberman, it was really kind of a symbolic expression of independence from Clinton." 
Lieberman was one of the firsts to publicly criticize Clinton. In Lieberman's book "In Praise of the Public Life" he writes, "The Clinton-Lewinski saga is the most vivid example we have of the virus of Jost standards." 
The true test of Lieberman's value, though, will be on Election Day. 
"It looks like it's possible that Gore is going to win Florida," said Roos, noting that Lieberman -popular among the many retired· seniors from the Northeast who live there ­could be the key to victory in that state. 
"No one seems to think that Cheney is going to carry any state," Roos said, noting that Hush would have won tradition­ally conservative Wyoming with­out. Cheney. 
Friday, November 3, 2000 

page 8 The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 
Close race Dlay not draw voters 
Associated Pre.. 
WASJllNGTON 
The closr race for pn•sident 
is unlikely to translate i.nto 
higher voter turnout this year 
since only about half of the 
nation's voting-age population 
is expected to go to the polls 
Tuesday, about the same as in 
1996, according to projections 
released Thursday. 
lfoughly 49 percent of those old enough to vote in 1996, the lowest turnout since 1924. Even with what may be the clost"st presidt"ntial race In 40 years, analysts don't expect turnout to be appreciably high­er. although some competitive states mav see an increase. for examplu: voting officials in California predicted a very high turnout this year, about 12 million, because of the heat­ed presidential race in California, the nation's most populous slate, and other con­tests. 
J'The likelihood is that this election will not be like 1996, when every stale had lower turnout," said Curtis Gans, director of the Committee for the Study of the American Electorate. "Some of the battle­ground states, particularly those with other high-profile elections -Florida, Michigan, Missouri and Washington ­may have higher turnout. 
"But since about 33 states and the District of Columbia were not targeted by the cam­paigns, it is likely that turnout will fall in most of those states." 
Gans developed the projec­tions in his report using regis­tration ligures, poll data, view­

ership of conventions and 
debates and other measures of 
public interest in the cam­
paign. 
The projection could vary 
slightly, but Gans does not · expect to repeat the 55 percent turnout from 1992, one of the few presidential elections when turnout spiked upward during four decades of gradual 
decline. 
A poll this week by the Pew 
Research Center also predicted 
turnout similar to 1996. Two­
thirds of registered voters say 
they have given quite a lot of 
thought lo Tuesday's election. 
That is about the same as 
October 1996,·a year when 49 
percent voted, and October 
1988, when 50 percent voted. 
In 1992, about three-fourths 
said just before the election 
that they had given a lot of 
thought to the upcoming vote. 
"There's nothing that sug­
gests this is a breakout elec­
tion," said Andrew Kohut, 
director or the Pew Research 
Center. "People know it's a 
close race, but that doesn't 
appear to have compelled them 
any more than the walkover 
election four years ago." 
Decades ago, voter turnout 
was thought to be a predictor 
of election outcomes and 
Republicans did better in years 
of lower turnout. 
But research in recent years 
suggests this is no longer the 
case. Intensity of voter senti­
ment, which now favors 
Hepublican George VV. Bush, 
may be a more crucial factor. 
About 63 percent of those old 
enough to vote cast ballots in 
1960, and the rate generally 
has declined since then, except 
for 1992, when Ross Perot's 
third-party candidacy and Bill 
Clinton's first run at the White 
House sparked voter interest. 
A large-scale effort to turn 
out voters combined with the 
close election, could push 
turnout up slightly from 1996, 
the Committee's report con­
cludes. 

Other factors cited in the 
report: 

. 
Registration in key states like California, Michigan .and Oregon is lower than in 1996. 

. 
Democratic registration is likely to have declined fur the ninth consecutive election to 32 percent of those eligible, and Republican rngistration could drop from 25.2 percent in 1996 to 24.5 percent this year. 

. 
Registration as indepen­dents and for third parties will likely increase to about 16.5 percent. Part of this is attrib­uted to the motor voter law, which encourages people to register even when they have a lower interest in the political process. The law requires states to let people register to vote by mail, or when they renew a driver's license or apply for welfare or disability benefits. 

. 
The long-term trend that has seen voter turnout drop by a fourth in the last 40 vears has continued and few· con­crete changes have been made to address the drop in interest. 

. 
Voter registration figures are flat, despite the motor voter law's increasing ease of registration, suggesting low voter interest. 

. 
Campaigns have been tar­geted to certain core and high voting groups, which has left many out of the political dia­logue. 


NAACP: Voters got fraudulent calls 
. Michigan, Virginia black voters bothered 
Associated Press 

WASIIINGTON 
The NAACP said Thursday that black voters have received fraudulent phone calls invoking the name of the historic civil rights orga­nization and urging them to vote for Republican George W. 13ush. 
The NAACP reported the calls to the attorneys general in Michigan and Virginia, where the recipients live, and to the Justice Department, asking for investigations. 
"We take these incidents ­and we do not know how• widespread they may be ­very, very seriously," said NAACP chairman Julian Bond. The group said it was aware of four voters who received the calls. 
The nonpartisan National Association for the Advancement of Colored People does not endorse can­didates, though its political arm has run commercials critical of Bush. 
NAACP officials said they did not know who was behind the calls. Bush spokesman Ari Fleischer said he knew nothing about them. 
Phone calls have become an increasingly significant part of the presidential cam­paign, particularly in its final 
days. as the candidates and 
interest groups work to per­
suade undecided voters and 
get their supporters to tho 
polls. 
The NAACP offered 
reporters the opportunity to 
talk with two women who 
said they received the call, 
though neither woman 
recorded the conversation. 
"The caller introduced themselves as canvassing for the NAACP," said Vivian Terry, 55, a school principal in Pontiac, Mich. 
"I said Tm not interested because I am a registered voter and I do vote.· They said, 'I want you to call this 800 number and let them know you are calling for the NAACP and you support George Bush.' I was irate with her. I said I knew she was not calling on behalf of the NMCP." 
The second woman, Donna Douglas of Ettrick, Va., said the caller also gave her a toll-free number to call, but neither one wrote it down or remembered it. 
Both women said they were voting for Democrat Al Gore. 
The NAACP said it was making get-out-the-vote phone calls to about 1 mil­lion people. It checked its list and none of the four recipi­ents was on it, said Ileather Booth, executive director of the group's voter riducation fund. 
The group's calls will fea­ture President Clinton and radio personality Tom Joyrrnr urging people to vote. 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 

A PRAYER FOR 0 UR COMMUNITY 
Notre Dame, our Mother, 
in sharing your name, we claim that we are family. 
Each of us is made uniquely in God's image, 
and we seek unity with God, ourselves and others. 
Help us to be worthy of your name, 
and reflections of your household. 
We ask you to implore the Holy Trinity, 
that we might be one with our sisters and brothers. 
Please bid our Father, to open our minds; 
that each of us will come to know the unity 
of which God is source and destiny. 
Ask your Son to infuse our heai1s with courage, 
to act against ignorance, intolerance and injustice. 
Call upon the Holy Sp11it, 
that we might celebrate the diversity in our midst. 
Move us to welcome and value 
lesbian and gay members of this family. 
Inspire us to include all creation 
into the circle of God's love and our community. 
By our Baptism and new life in Christ, 
direct our journey back to the Father's Son and Creator, 
and draw us together as companions on the way. 
We offer this prayer for our Notre Dame family, 
that we might ever more reflect 
the richness and unity to which we are called. 

The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 

The entire Notre Dame Community will be invited to pray this prayer at all Masses this weekend. Prayer Cards will be available in your Dormitory Chapel, at the Basilica and Campus Ministry Offices. 
Friday, November 3, 2000 The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 page 9 
Bush pleaded guilty to drunken driving 25 years ago 
said Thursday he was arrested Confirming reports that sur­Associated Press and pleaded guilty nearly 25 faced in the media five days years ago to driving while under before Election Day, the GOP WEST ALLIS, Wis. the influence of alcohol. 'Tm not presidential nominee said in a Texas Gov. George W. Bush proud of' that," he said. hurriedly arranged news conf'er-

Transfi. · tion: 
The Work of Samuel Bak 
Oct 8 -Nov 19, 2000 
Symposium: 

WHAT IS HOLOCAUST ART? THE JEWISH/ CHRISTIAN SYMBOLISM IN SAMUEL BAK'S PAINTINGS. SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2000 
1:30 pm  Painting the Void: Speaking the U11speakable  
Lawrence Cunningham, University of Notre Dame  
20th C Gallery  
2:30 pm  Exhibit with the artist present  
3:45 pm  Panel Discussion:  
The Jewish/Christian symbolism in Bak's Work/  
What is Holocaust art?  
Annenberg Auditorium  

The exhibit is sponsored by the Notre Dame Holocaust Project in coopera­tion with the Snite Museum, the Nanovic Center for European Studies at the University of Notre Dame, and the Pucker Gallery, Boston, MA. 
Reception will follow. 

Guest parking is available on campus. There is no charge for the day's events. Call 219-631-5466 for further information. 
ence, "I've often times said that years ago I made some mistakes. I occasionally drank too much, and I did on that night. I regret that it happened." 
The Sept. 4, 1976, incident was first reported by Fox News. based on a report prepared by a local affiliate in Maine. Bush, who was 30 years old at the time, said he had chosen to keep the incident private, but his hand was forced by the news outlets. 
Suggesting that politics may have played a role in the incident surfacing now, Bush said, "I think that's an interesting ques­tion. Why now? -[five] days before the election." 
"I've got my suspicions," said Bush, not sharing them with a crowd of reporters surrounding him. 
For months, the GOP nominee has refused to an$wer questions about any "youthful indiscre­tions," including whether he used illegal drugs in the 1960s and early 1970s. He continued to avoid specifics Thursday night, saying he has "been straightfor­
Tiu-·1 :~rd .\11.mal 
EBONY FASHION FAIR Prcsenls 
·1 J1ion ~ 

,t.JWdil)./rl
Fj 
.... 
--... 
'." 

Spon~on•d by ~-· 
Women in M.O.T.1.0.N.~; of South Bend Clay High School Auditorium Tuesday, November 7, 2000 8:00 p.m. 
Advance Ticket Price: $23.00 At the Door $25.00 
Advance Students -$15.00 At the Door $17.00 
Contact any Women In Motion Member for Tickets or call : (219) 234-3267 (219) 277-3788 
W\\\\•.~honvfa,hionfair.nel 

ward with the people, saying that I used to drink too much in the past. I'm straightforward with people saying I don't drink now." 
Chris Lehane, spokesman for the Gore campaign, said, "We had absolutely nothing to do with this." 
Bush's camgaign staff jumped into action after the news broke, tracking down the arresting offi­cer and quickly arranging a rare news conference for the Texas governor -his first in a month. 
Aides said Rush was pulled over near his family's Kennebunkport, Maine, summer home after visiting a bar with friends and a family member during the Labor Day weekend, aides said. 
Spokeswoman Mindy Tucker said Hush, who had been drink­ing beer, paid a $150 fine and had his driving privileges revoked in the state of Maine for a short period. His drivers' license in Texas, where Bush lived at the time, was not revoked or suspended, she said. 
VIEWPOINT 
OTHE 
page l 0 BSERYER Friday, November 3, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame. !N 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEf 
Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINl!SS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR Ort:RATI0NS MANAGER 
Christine Kraly Brian Kessler 
NF:WS EDITOR: Anne Mari~ Martingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey 
SPORTS EDITOR, Kerry Smath SCENE f.D!l'OR: Amanda Greco SAINT MAAY'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy 
PHOTO f.DJ'l'OR: Eli:zaberh Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER; Par Peters Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila 
SYSTEMS ADMINl~TRAT0R: Mike Gunvi!le Wr::e ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CoNTROI.LER: Bob Woods 
GRA.i'HIC.. EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGFRIGFNERA.1. INFO............631-7471 fAx ............................................................ 631-6927 ADVERTISING .....................................631-6900/8840 
obscrvad@nd .ed u EDITOR IN CHIEF.. ..................................631-4542 MANAGING EmrnR./AssT. ME .................. 63[-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................ 631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu VJt.'WPOINT................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS....................................................631-4 543 obscrver.sporrs.1@nd.edu ScF.NE.. .....................................................63 l-4540 observer.scene.!@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.. ..........................................631-4324 
obscrver.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTFMS/WF.B ADMINISTRATORS.. ............ ,631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
\'1m our W'eb site at http://obmwr.11d,du for daily updates ofcampllS nc,w,, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and hreaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-w-che 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly srudent review, 
advertise fi.ir policic,s 
online features for spe­
and rares of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
ro meet rhe editors and 
Augusr 1999 
sralf 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prmt and online by the students of rhe Universiry of Notre Dame du Lie and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the righr to refuse adverrisemenrs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurardy and objecrively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of rhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letter, and columns presc,rH the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The ()bscrvcr. 
Viewpoint space 1s available to all readers. The free expression ofall opiniom rhruugh letters is enGouragd. Lener. to the Editor musr be ~igned and mu•I indudr ooma~t information. 
QutJtiom r,g11rdi11g Oburo,rpolirier ,houid br direr1­rd 10 Editor m Chi:fMilrr Connolly. 

Expansion of WVFI was the right choice 
The move of WVFI from limited cam­tunity? When the Notre Dame adminis­pus Internet broadcast to unlimited glob­tration learned that WVFI was able to al Internet broadcast will give Notre broadcast globally on the Internet in the Dame students a Fall of 1999, it quickly cut chance to demon­off the station's access. strate their profes­OJhe Hather than giving the 
userver

sionalism and students the chance to improve their skills. prove themselves as pro­Nothing prPpares fessionals, the administra­students better for tion silenced the Voice of 
Editorial 
careers in broadcast after college than the real world experience they can gain at a student radio station. WVFI's global broadcasts will give students this oppor­tunity. 
The question arises, therefore: why weren't students always given this oppor­the Fighting Irish to the 

world. 
Finally, one year later, the administra­tion has relented and pulled the gag f'rom WVFI. Station manager Adam Frick and his staff said that morale suffered at the station during the year of campus-only broadcasts. The global gag placed over WVFI sent a ch~ar message to the stu­dents who spend so much time and ener­gy trying to make the station better: you aren't very good and we don't trust you. 
Now that the gag has been lifted, Frick said the station is "light years ahead of where we were last year" at a press con­ference Wednesday. Notre Uame stu­dents are bright and intr-lligc:mt p11oplc who rise to the challenges that face them. When high standards are expected, Notn1 Dame students will achieve these high standards. 
The Notre Dame administration was right to lift the global broadcast ban that it had placed on WVFI. Now Frick and his staff finally have the chance to show how good they can be. 

Apologizing to the University 
I must begin this column with a tip of my hat and bow of my head to some peo­ple whose only job is to use all of their people skills to keep this University in the black. 
More to the point. I must apologize. 
I wrote in a col­umn on the Friday before fall break that numerous attempts were made by my family to get the University devel­opment office to change my father's status because of his death nearly four years ago. 
I wrote that line in response to my mother's complaint that he continued to receive requests for renewal of the Sorin Society membership and notices of upcoming reunions (his 35-year reunion would have been in the summer of2001). 
I was contacted by the director of development operations, Timothy Hippinger. two weeks ago and I went back to my mother and asked her who she had talked to and how many times she had contacted the office. After a few moments, she couldn't recall ever having contacted anyone at Notre Dame about this situation. Evidently she had received condolence letters from the University at the time. I remember receiving similar letters from Father Malloy and then vice president for student affairs Patricia O'Hara. My mother said that she must have confused contacting Notre Dame with another group that she had to con­tact at the time. 
So. in response to Mr. Rippinger and everyone in the development office I sin­cerely apologize to them and to you, the readers of this paper. for my misleading statement. 
Mr. Rippinger and I had a lengthy con­versation in which Im doscribed the con-cerns that the development office has in addressing the student and faculty needs. He answered many of the questions that I had posed in my article, including my demand that someone pay attention to the ancient nature of the only Arts and Letters building on campus, O'Shaughnessey Hall. He mentioned the new faculty oflices being built into the breezeway between O'Shaughnessey and Decio as an example of his oflice trying to address just that problem. 


Ile told me of the percent­age of the Generations cam­paign that went to scholar­ships and that the develop­ment oflice was always looking for ways to help to improve the lot of stu­dents. He quoted many figures to back up his statements (including the target goal of $178 mil­lion for undergraduate scholarships). I actually took down a quote that he said, but then realized that we were speaking informally and decided not to use it. But, believe me, the journalist in me longed to use it as a lead for how ·• the development office cares. 
When we were done and I hung up the phone I realized something. I realized that I had been wrong on almost everything that I had said. The only thing that I still disagreed with was the idea of paying for the right to buy football tick­ets. Mr. Hippinger explained that they needed to determine who was interested in tickets and that mailing out applica­tions to everyone was not cost effective and that some people were even annoyed to receive applications in the mail every vear. · I'm not sure that I fully accept that idea, but it is as good a reason as any. 
Anyhow, it was the first time that I have ever aired my complaints about 
anything at the University and imnwdi­
ately heard back from a University olli­
cial. 

That Mr. Rippinger cared enough about the performance of his department to call me and answer my questions meant a lot 
to me. It means that we do have pew­
pie in this administration who are 
willing to stand up and explain 
their office. In fact, that there 
are people who are eager to tell you what they are doing. 
When I was a student I encountned pnople at tlw President's Oflice, Oflice of 
Student Affairs and Oflicp of Student Activities, each telling me that they would not only refuse to explain 
their actions. but they 
wouldn't tell me about 
something that I already 
knew was happening. 
It was very rc~f'reshing 
to talk to someone who 
was so open and candid. I 
will be on campus in late November and I will defi­nitely stop by the develop­

ment officp, to talk to Mr. Hippinger in pnrson. "'"!Ii.a.~:,,,,-But, back to the point of -the column. 1am dc0ply sorry for any anguish or 
stress that my column may 
have caused Mr. Hippinger or 
his co-workers. I do not make a 
habit of false accusations and am 
greatly embarrassed about making such allegations of the development office. 
Matt Loughran is a '97 Notre Dame graduate and is currently working as assistant editor at Hou•man & Ulllefleld Publishing Group in Lanham. Md. llis col­umn appears euPr!J other Friday. 
ThP views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofthe Obseroer. 
DILBERT 
TODAY 15 MY LAST 
DA'i. I'M 5A'iING 
MY FAREWELL$. 

WE'VE NEVER TALKED, 
BUT I WAS WORKING M'i WAY DOWN THE ROW AND HERE YOU ARE. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''I'm tired ofpeople in Washington lecturing us about family values. Our f amities have values. The government has no values ... 
William Jefferson Clinton president 
50 .. 
LET'S 
STAY IN 

DON'TTOUCH. 
BE A
l 

STRANGER. 
\ 


VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
Friday, November 3, 2000 BSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Supporting a culture of death 
Abe Lincoln once said that to sin by silence when they should protest makes cowards of men. 
Looking the other way or feigning neutrality when society is r.ollapsing in the clutches of a moral meltdown -from America's past embrace of slavery to today's murderous abortion culture that has killed more than 40 million children since 1973 -makes us accountable. 
Ifwe fail to fully understand the mile high stakes of this presidential race in resolving or exacerbat­ing abortion in America and if we are silent, we may become unwittingly complicit in the on-going holocaust of the unborn. Who we elect in November matters greatly. 
So let me ask you this: What would you make of someone -in this case, a powerful politician ­who absolutely knows the ugly truth about abor­tion but chooses the path of least resistance and flip-flops on abortion in order to pander for votes? 
How should we regard this man, who we know is well acquainted with the truth that abortion methods dismember or chemically poison babies, or suck the brains out of innocent children as they are being born -a brutal act of vio­lence against children? How can we trust a man with the highest office in the world who has chosen to advance his political career on the busted bod­ies of dead babies? 
Vice President Al Gore was once a strong pro-life congressman. I know. I served with him. He is now obsessed with promoting abortion on demand both here and overseas. The distin­guished gentleman from Tennessee who once wrote, "I support the Hyde Amendment," to cut off federal Medicaid funds for abortion now demands its repeal. Furthermore, Mr. Gore has stated, "I will always, always defend a woman's right to 
·choose. Every time Congress has tried 
to play politics with that fundamental, 
personal right, imposing gag rules and 
attaching anti-choice language to any 
bill they can think of, we have stood up 
to them and stopped them. If they try it 
again, we'll stop them again. And if 
they try it after the year 2000, with 
your help, I'll stop them. That hard-won 
right will be safe with me as your presi­
dent." 

Today Mr. Gore is the most strident, extreme and driven pro-abortionist in political life. Mr. Gore's candidacy for presi­dent represents the single most dangerous threat to the lives ofan entire generation of unborn children. If he wins, the babies and their mothers lose. Big time. 
As chairman of the Congressional pro-life caucus for almost 20 years, I and other pro-life leaders in Congress worked with Mr. Gore in the early 1980s when he was our colleague. He was rock solid and voted pro-life more than 80 percent of the time. 
On Oct. 27, 1983, for example, 1offered my first pro-life amendment that was enacted into law to ban funding for abortion in the federal employees health benefits program. As expected, Mr. Gore was part of the pro-life majority that day and voted in favor of the funding ban. 
Additionally, Mr. Gore wrote to a constituent in 1984, " ... it is my deep personal conviction that abortion is wrong ... I sh a.re your belief that inno­cent human life must be protected." 
That was then. This is now. Turns out that his 
"deep personal conviction" was not very deep after 
all. 

Looking back, it is now crystal clear that once Mr. Gore set his sights ort the presidency, the pro­tection of innocent human life became an annoy­ance, a potential liability and a perceived impedi­ment to grander things. 
Over the side went Mr. Gore's "deep personal conviction," and in its place, a re-invented aggres­sive Mr. Gore emerged, ready to make war on innocent babies at home and abroad. 
Mr. Gore, over tho quick study, mastered the art of abortion rhetoric with its uncanny reliance on euphemism. diversion and deceit. 
Amazingly, for a time during the presidential pri­mary with Sen. Bill Bradley, Mr. Gore went to great lengths -almost laughable at times -to say he was never one of us. 
Now comes an October surprise. In an obvious attempt to lull pro-life people of faith -Catholic vot­ers in particular -Mr. Gore has put out the word in a Catholic news service story that he's seeking "common ground" on abortion. Sounds benign enough, but it's a trap. This false, misleading, cyni­cal, highly deceptive, self-serving rubbish must be recognized for the fool's bait that it is. Don't let him 
obscure or obfuscate his strident pro-abortion record -and the deadly consequences it has had for babies. Mr. Gore is pro-abortion to the core. We know his "common ground" will mean a certain "burial ground" for countless unborn children. It is indeed a trap. A couple of weeks ago, Mr. Gore cele­
brated and lavishly praised the FDA's approval of RU-486 -the abortion pill -the newest form of baby poison that 
will destroy hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of babies. 
Mr. Gore stated, "I am pleased with the Food and Drug Administration's decision to approve mifeprostone." 
Where is the common ground? 
Mr. Gore has repeatedly promised a rigid pro-abortion litmus test for all judges, including every justice selected to the U.S. Supreme Court, thus lock­ing-in abortion on demand in the United States. 
Mr. Gore said. "I agree with Kate Michelman that the right to choose is nothing less than a fundamental value. As President, I will make sure that right is never threatened, never weakened and never taken away." 
His website says, "Noting that the next president may have the opportuni­ty to appoint up to three Supreme Court 
justices, Gore said that the greatest danger to freedom of choice will be an anti-choice president." 
Mr. Gore adamantly seeks the repeal of 
the Mexico City Policy, a pro-life policy that bars funding to overseas organiza­tions that perform and/or promote abor­
tion. Mr. Gore favors federal funding of human 
embryo stem cell research, which turns unborn babies into guinea pigs. Mr. Gore seeks hundreds of millions in U.S. 
tax dollars for pro-abortion organizations, such as Planned Parenthood, which performs or refers for approximately 230,000 abortions every year, and the Population Control, which is the holder of the rights to RU-486 and received almost $100 million from the Clinton-Gore Administration over the last three years alone. 
Again, where is the common ground? 
Mr. Gore applauded Bill Clinton's vetoes of the partial-birth abortion ban. Now he and the abor­tion lobby, employing the farce of "common ground," want pro-lifers to support a "health exception to the partial-birth abortion ban," even though the 1973 Supreme Court abortion decision has already defined "health'' so broadly as to sanc­tion abortion on demand. 
And the list goes on. 

Abe Lincoln was critical of those who were silent. Just think what he would think of a man who sells out his "deep personal conviction" for political expediency. 
Chris Smith (R-NJ) 
U.S. House of Representatives October 26. 2000 

Disagreeing with the Gore endorsement 
I cannot disagree more strongly with your endorsement of Vice President Al Gore for President. I would like to take this opportunity to explain why Governor George W. Bush is a bet­ter choice than Mr. Gore is. You first mention Mr. Gore's plan to use the surplus to pay down the national debt. I submit that the surplus is a result of collecting more taxes than necessary. Therefore, any excess taxes should be returned to us, the tax­payers, in the form of tax cuts. I think you are mistaken in say­ing that Mr. Bush's plan "encourages Americans to rely on the government for their retirement." Quite the opposite, Mr. Bush's plan allows for investment into private funds instead of relying on the current system that produces lower than inflation returns, which inherently decreases the value of each dollar put into the system. 
As far as experience is concerned, Isubmit that a governor of the largest state in the contiguous United States is better expe­rienced to serve in an executive position than a vice president is. The only official duty of the vice president is to preside over the U.S. Senate. Mr. Bush has been presiding over a large state with a large economy facing international issues (trade, border issues, etc.) Mr. Gore has proven his inability to relate with a GOP Congress, so the likelihood of a bi-partisan relationship is unlikely, while Bush has been commended on his ability to work with Democrats and overcome party lines. 
An issue that you failed to mention is the abortion issue. Mr. Hush has consistently shown more respect for the rights of the unborn. Mr. Gore has supported partial-birth abortion, the hor­rific practice of removing the partially born baby's brain, so that the head will pass through the birth canal. As many as four Supreme Court Justices will be nominated over the next four years, and only Mr. Bush can be counted upon to nominate justices who will prohibit at least partial-birth abortions. 
I strongly encourage those of you who have yet to vote, to vote for Mr. Bush. 
Cody Rinehart Champaign, Illinois class of '00 November I, 2000 

E L 
ene 0 N 
rJHE 
page 12 VfiSERVER Friday, November 3, 2000 
Partying presiden 
Resounding sentiments of "/didn't inhale," Scene reveals the tme college antics 

By LAURA KELLY Assistant Scene EJicor 
Education has become a strong issue in this year's presidential cam­paign, with each candidate arguing he has the better plan to reform America's schools. Hepublican candi­date George W. Bush points to his success at improving education in Texas, while Democrat Al Gore sup­ports regular testing to hold schools accountable. 
Ironically. though, neither of these two major candidates boasts an out­standing academic record themselves. 
In fact, their grades reveal that neither seemed to value the Ivy League education they were fortunate enough to receive. 
From drinking at frat parties to smoking marijuana, both Al and George partied their way through institutions of higher learning, leav­ing the American public to wonder if either candidate truly realizes the importance of education, or if their end of the election is merely a battle between two rich prep school boys with silver spoons in their mouths. 
George W. Bush 
Mter spending his childhood in the small town of Midland, Texas, George 
W. Bush followed his father out east to the elite prep school Andover in 1960, and then to Yale University in 1964. There in the town of New Haven, George W. thrived as an out­going, popular student who knew how to enjoy his college years -even if he wasn't enamored with the intellectual side of college. 
Bush was the quintessential frat boy, a member of Delta Kappa Epsilon. His fraternity was known as a house of preps and jocks and claimed a rowdy party reputation. 
Bush was well-liked by his peers, and was elected president of DKE -a position which strengthened the per­sonal and business skills that would bring him later political successes. 
Friendships at DKE and beyond were Bush's priority, and he was known to share more than a few laughs over beers with his frat broth­ers. George W. was also involved with intramural sports at Davenport, his residential college at Yale. 
During a time when many students risked arrests for protests and sit-ins, the Texan prankster broke the law for a dare. 
During the winter of his junior year, Bush was out strolling the streets of New Haven and drinking with his frat brothers. Upon a dare, Bush stole a Christmas wreath from the door of a hotel. As the boys ran from the scene of the crime, loud and boisterous as any slightly intoxicated youth would be, they were arrested by police and charged with disorderly conduct, 


AF? PHOTO Fondly engaging his peers in beer chugging contests and openly admitting to having smoked pot, Gore seemed to have a tendency to get a little carried away In his college days at Harvard. 
charges that were later dropped. 
Bush's crime record did not stop here, however. A year after the wreath arrest, Bush was at Princeton for a football game. When Yale was victorious, Bush and his friends charged the field and tried to knock down the goal posts. Police caught the boy trying to tear apart the goal posts to take a chunk hoqie as a sou­venir. 
After interrogating him, police finally released Bush on the condition that he leave Princeton by dusk. 
Bush's fun-loving days at Yale were establishment that took over places like Yale in the 1960s. Frats were looked down upon as frivolous and immature during the tumultuous 1960s, as students protested passion­ately for radical causes. 
None of this protesting was Bush's scene, however. He unabashedly enjoyed his youth and his fraternity escapades. 
The fraternity was not the only social group to which Bush belonged. Again emulating his father, Bush was accepted into the elitist society of the Skull and Bones. This secretive group was 
not hampered by comprised of 15 of the
Critics ofthe Texan 
diligent study habits most promising or 
governor sneer at how
or philosophical con­socially prominent men templation. Critics of Bush seemingly partied in each class. the Texan governor his way through Yale, Connections formed sneer at how Bush through the group's
never receiving an 'A.'
seemingly partied powerful alumni set its 
his way through Yale, never receiving an A. With SAT Verbal scores of 566 and Andover grades that were less than impres­sive, it seems that the Bush family's political and social ties were what got him into the Ivy League. While Bush was a student, the administration raised admittance standards that would have probably barred him from acceptance if he had applied a few years later. 
His lack of dedication to his studies continued throughout his college years. When Bush's Yale transcript was leaked to The New Yorker, the public learned that George W. earned a consistent "Gentleman's C." 
Bush was a history major, but did poorly in political science and eco­nomics. Oddly enough for a candidate running to lead the country, Bush earned a mere 73 percent in Introduction to the American Political System, and a 71 percent in Introduction to International Relations. 
His best cCV:leg-e grades were a B+ in both philosophy and anthropology, taught that year by Margaret Mead who was popular for her easy grad­ing. 
Although Bush's grades did not show it, he did boast a practical intel­ligence, as seen in his leadership skills as fraternity president and in a story from his early days in DKE. 
During his induction to the frater­nity, all the sophomore pledges were gathered in the frat basement, cower­ing while upperclassmen hit them, shouted insults and berated the boys for thinking they were worthy to belong to such a great frat. 
One technique to humiliate the sophomores in front of their peers was to ask the boys to name all their fellow pledges. Most could only shamefully name five or six of the 55­member pledge class, but when it came time for Bush's turn, he confi­dently stood and named every single pledge. 
Despite the fraternity fun that Bush enjoyed, the Yale of the 1960s was becoming more serious and intellec­tual. Bush insists that college was a great time in his life, but somewhere along the way he grew to detest the elitist Yale attitude. 
According to the New York Times, 
Bush later complained about the 
"self-righteousness" and "intellectual 
superiority" of East Coast liberal 
members on a lifelong 
course for success and 
power. 

It seems odd that Bush would asso­
ciate himself with such an exclusive 
group, as he was strongly opposed to 
the snobby, elitist attitude he saw at 
Yale. Yet during such a turbulent 
decade, the conservative Bush clung 
to the ideals and values of his par­
ents' generation. 
The upheaval of the 60s -the riots, the anti-war protests, the burning of draft cards -made George uneasy. Instead of questioning his values, he clung to them even tighter. The coun­terculture rejected everything for which his family stood. 
The conventional George W. never rebelled like so many others of his generation -no long hair, no drug abuse, no loud music. Bush broke away from his parents in traditional ways: having a string of girlfriends while his parents had only ever dated each other and partying throughout his college years. 
As summed up in the New York Times, "while some students took to the barricade, Mr. Bush took to the bar." 
Albert Gore 
Al Gore was described in his prep school yearbook as "popular, respect­ed, the epitome of the All-American young man ... it probably won't be long_before Al reaches the top." 
St.':.\lbans in Washington, D.C., was where Gore spent his high school years. Al was seen by his peers as serious and upright, always doing the right thing. As the school's football captain, he even turned in his own teammates for drinking and smoking. 
Gore often describes these years of his life as unhappy, as he felt pres­sured to be an example to peers and to live up to his father. Like Bush, Gore was the namesake of a powerful political patriarch. Albert Gore, Sr. served three terms in the Senate and always pushed his son to achieve. 
Any unhappy memories of the pres­sures of St. Albans were overshad­owed by the way Gore's life changed at his graduation dance. It was at this senior prom when he met Mary Elizabeth Aitcheson, better known as "Tipper." Gore saif he knew almost right away. even at the age of 17, that he would spend the rest of his life with this woman. 
Tipper had grown up in Washington's Virginia suburbs and 
E L 
ene 0 N 

O
THE Friday, November 3, 2000 BSERVER 
ial style 
his elections prominent presidential candidates 
was a year younger 
than Gore. Gore's 
relationship with 

Tipper often brought 
him into conflict 
with his strict par­
ents. His mother 
Pauline thought Al 
could do better, as 
Tipper's family 
wasn't socially 
prominent. 
Nevertheless, when 
Al went off to 
Harvard in 1965, 
Tipper joined him in 
Boston for his 
sophomore year, 
studying at Garland 
Junior College and 
then at Boston 
University. 
Gore was so confi­dent in his decision to go to Harvard that it was the only school to which he applied. His grades, like Bush's, were not stellar, although his SAT verbal scores were higher: 
625. As in George W's case, Gore's father and his politi­cal connections ensured his son a place in the class of 1969. 
Al jumped right into college life, 

AMANDA GRECO/The Observer
campaigning for 

George W. Bush barely passed his Introduction to the American Political
freshman council by his second day. Gore System course at Yale. He was too busy living it up with his frat brothers and 
was just the kind of other members of the elite society of the Skull and Bones. 

serious student that Bush used to mock. He worried about the problems of his genera­tion, especially the debate over Vietnam and the threat of nuclear destruction. 
Gore started off as an English major, until, he says, Chaucer nearly killed him. He enjoyed writing poetry and worked for years on a novel that he never finished. He loved to read and to study astronomy, an admitted Star Trek fan. 
Despite his serious demeanor, Gore had a wild side as well. As a teenager, he totaled his father's Chevy Impala while passing a truck on country roads. 
He later turned to racing around the streets of Cambridge on a motorcycle. 
Gore now admits to beer chugging contests and smoking pot while at Harvard. He spent much of his early college years shooting pool, watching 
television and partying on 

One friend ofAl Gore's ple to criticize such behavior. 
weekends. 

Yet the underlying issue is not
joked that since he 
Gore's roommate and later 

Bush's fraternity pranks or 
housemate was the actor failed evolution in col­
Gore's marijuana use. The
Tommy Lee Jones. Jones, 

lege, he was all set for problem is motivating voters to 
Gore and their other friends 

choose between two similar
a career in Tennessee
from Mower B -his dorm in 
candidates. 

the North Yar -enjoyed politics. 
Both men struggled with the 
spending lazy afternoons playing poker and listening to records of Bob Dylan, Motown, Beatles and Buffalo Springfield. 
At the end of their freshman year. Gore's group of friends organized a musical revue, with Gore -now ridiculed for his stiffness ­as the stand-up comic. 
Gore was an enthusiastic athlete, playing house football and handball because his group considered squash "too Harvard." He played for Harvard's basketball team during his freshman year, but mostly warmed the bench, averaging less than 3 points a game. Gore was always challenging friends to all kinds of com­petitions -push-up challenges, swimming races in the Charles River and beer chugging contests. 
Gore's favorite class at Harvard was, ironi­cally enough, presidential decision-making. When the class re-enacted decisions made during the Cuban missile crisis, Gore took the role of President Kennedy. He got his first A's that year, after semesters of C's and even a D in biology as a sophomore. One friend of Al's joked that having failed evolution, he was all set for a career in Tennessee politics. It was because of this presidential politics class that Gore changed his major to government, and the rest, they say, is history. 
College students surely identify with the fun­loving college years Bush and Gore enjoyed. 
Indeed it would be impossible 
and hypocritical for most peo­
expectations and pressures of 
powerful fathers. Both fol­lowed the traditional East Coast path from elit­ist prep schools to the Ivy League. And both reacted conservatively to the upheaval of the 1960s. 
Because of these similarities, many Americans feel they must choose between the lesser of two evils, and polls indicate indeci­sion is so common that no one knows who the winner will be. But come Nov. 7, the next pres­ident of the United States will either be a Yalie from western Texas or a Harvard man from Tennessee -a victory their college buddies surely never imagined they'd see. 
page 13 


How do you decide who will get your vote? 
For many ofus at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, this election will bring about the first chance to exercise our right to vote. But for many, the options may seem daunting. 
So maybe you haven't exactly had the chance to read all the 
news analyses and reports, watch all the debates and inter­views or attend the rallies. Maybe you're awash in the propaganda and platforms, with "surplus" and "social security" running through your head. You can hardly decide what cereal to eat each morning, much less which candidate best represents what you may want over the next four years. 

You are forgiven. Where can one turn for an unbiased, concise source of information? How
Amanda Greco 

can one determine which candidate's beliefs most closely align with his or her own?
Scene Editor 

Look no further than www.speak­out.com/VoteMatch. 
Speakout.com evaluates your beliefs on a variety of political issues and then matches those results with a candidate. 
The political issues are broken down into four main cate­gories: individual rights, domestic issues, economic issues and international issues. 
Each category is then divided into several subcategories to more accurately determine your stances. The survey asks spe­cific questions regarding everything from the death penalty to education vouchers, free trade to gay rights. 
With the simple click of a mouse, you can select from five options that display varying degrees of opposition, agreement or indifference towards an issue. Not quite certain what issue the question is referring to? Just click on the question and a pop-up window will open explaining the history and impor­tance of the given subject and just what it means to support or oppose it. 
Once you have completed one of the four major sections, the survey will ask how important a candidate's stance on that spe­cific section is overall in comparison with other issues. 
After answering all the questions (there are fewer than 30) the Web site will automatically calculate the results for you. You will be presented with a series of scores -how you match up with several candidates. The numbers reflect the percent­ages of how your beliefs match with each candidate overall, personally and economically. 
Accompanying the scores are photos of each candidate and links to more information. You can view a full profile of the candidate, see how you match the candidates shown issue by issue and even join other concerned citizens to discuss the can­didate in a forum. 
There are also links including quotes and video clips of the candidates speaking on var­ious topics. 
With Speakout.com, you might just find a lit­tle clarity in all the polit­ical mudslinging and partial perspectives fly­ing through the air. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseroer. Photos courtesy of www.speakout.com 
.. 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 3, 2000 
====~~=---=================== :..::===========================-=::-=-=============================-==-=-===------­
VOLLEYBALL 

Belles' season ends after disappointing loss to Knights 
By ALICIA ORTIZ 

... Sports Wrircr 
The Helles went to Calvin College Wednesday looking to bring back a win and continue on in the M[AA 2000 volleyball tournament. Unfortunately, they fell short of their expecta­tions. losing to Calvin 15-3, 15­4, 15-5. 
Saint Mary's, which has been in a constant struggle to gain wins, ended its season with a 

.. disappointing loss to Calvin 
Butcko said. "We missed key serves that would have put us ahead." 
Key plays came from outside defensive hitter Angela Meyers. She had eight kills and 14 digs. 
"Angie pulled through for us," freshmen setter LeighAnn Matesich said. 
Other top Belles' performers were MC Christopher withl 1 digs and four points, and Matesich with 14 assists. However, individual accom­plishments were not enough to 
"We did not leave the 
College. Calvin is the No. 2 season as strong as we 
team in the had hoped. We wanted 
MIM. 

to end with a win." 
.. We didn't go out with the kind of fight LelghAnn Mateslch 
that I had 

freshman setter
hoped for," 
head coach Julie Schrooder-Biek said. 
In the first game, Saint Mary's remained tied with Calvin for five full rotations. After failing to keep its serve, Saint Mary's ultimately lost to Calvin 15-3. 
"We started off playing very well," senior defensive special­ist Victoria Butcko said. "The score doesn't reflect how well we played." 
Calvin dominated the next two games, winning with scores of 15-4 and 15-5. 
"We had difficulty serving," 
CLASSIFIEDS 

ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED  
AM. -232-2378  
TICKETS  P.M. ­288-2726  
ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE  
WANTED  A.M. -232-2378  
ND FOOTBALL TKTS  P.M. -288-2726  
289-9280  
PAYING $50 EACH FOR ND VS.  
SELLING  BOSTON COLLEGE TICKETS. 219  
ND FOOTBALL TKTS  289-8048.  
251-1570  
Need 1 Ticket  
VICTORY TKTS  ForNDv BC  
BUY"SELL'TRADE  247-0965  
ND FOOTBALL  Lost and Found  
232-0964  
www.victorytickets.com  WANTED  
ND FOOTBALL TKTS  
BUY/SELL ND TICKETS  289-9280  
273-3911  
SELLING  
ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED  ND FOOTBALL TKTS  
A.M. -232-2378  251-1570  
PM. ­288-2726  
VICTORY TKTS  
ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE  BUV-SELL"TRADE  
AM. -232-2378  ND FOOTBALL  
P M. ­288-2726  232-0964  
www.victorytickets.com  
PAYING $50 EACH FOR ND VS  
BOSTON COLLEGE TICKETS. 219  BUY/SELL ND TICKETS  
289-8048.  273-3911  

Need 1 Ticket  ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED  
For NDv BC  A.M. -232-2378  
247-0965  P.M. -288-2726  
Losl and Found  
WANTED  ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE  
ND FOOTBALL TKTS  AM. -232-2378  
289-9280  P.M. -288-2726  

SELLING  PAYING $50 EACH FOR ND VS.  
ND FOOTBALL TKTS  BOSTON COLLEGE TICKETS. 219  
251-1570  289-8048.  

VICTORY TKTS Need 1 Ticket BUY'SELL'TRADE For ND vBC ND FOOTBALL 247-0965 
232-0964 

www.victorytickets.com NEED TWO BOSTON COLLEGE 
G.A.OS. PLEASE CALL MANYARD BUY/SELL ND TICKETS AT 1-800-638-6963, X 6093. CALL 273-3911 WILL BE RETURNED ASAP. 
I NEED lWO BC TICKETS! 2 ND/USC TIX+ AIRFARE I MY PARENTS ARE COMING! GOTO alumni.nd edu/-ndc_satx 
WILL PAYI CALL 284-4334! I need one G.A ticket tor B.C. WEOLL TALK! game Please call Erin 4-4190. 
pull this team together for a win. 
The loss ended a chal­lenging sea­son for the Belles. who finished 7-22. 
"I was hop­ing we would have made it to the second 



Junior Denise Langlois returns a serve earlier this season. Saint Mary's season ended Wednesday with a loss to Calvin College. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexc-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per characcer per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

round [of the tournament]." Butcko said. "It is not how I thought we would end our sea­son." 
The tough competition of the 26-7 Calvin team was more than the Belles could handle. The Belles wanted to get the win for senior Victoria Butcko, who ended her four-year career on Wednesday. 
"We did not leave the season as strong as we had hoped." Matesich said "We wanted to leave with a win." 
I NEED BC TIX. 272-6306 FOUND: lronman Triathlon watch 
BO GAME TICKET, PERFERABLY IN STUDENTS SECTION, DESIRED TO BE BE PURCHASED BY CURRENT HIGH SCHOOL SENIOR AND PROSPECTIVE ND OR SMC STUDENT, ENTERING FALL 01, WILL BE VISITING BOTH SCHOOLS BC WEEKEND PLEASE CALL ERIN GRIFFIN (313)822-3263 on Thursday night between Lafortune and Nieuwland Science Hall. Man's watch with black, gray, and orange coloring. Call Steph at 4-1675. 
WANTED 
1991 Pontiac LemaslE, 2D, 3,4 $ 6 BDRM HOMES. FURN. Mileage: 77,000 Phone 273-6056; NOW & 2001-02. 272-6306. 
email erdem.1 @nd edu PHONE CARDS 
PERSONAL
$20 1558 MIN. 

CALL 284-5145 or 258-4805 
Impress potential employers. '95 Hondo Civic EX. red. moonroof, Keep in contact with friends and rel­5 spd. 52k mi • $8950, call 1-6953 atives. 
Student business cares are NOW 

International publication based in available at 
Granger has opening for assistant THE COPY SHOP editor. Writing and grammar skills Lafortune Student Center 
FOR RENT 

necessary. Knowledge of motor-Phone 631-COPY LOST & FOUND sports a bonus For more intorma­
tion call 277-0033. ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE WORK THE POLLS ELECTION FOUND AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS DAY, NOV.7 TREK BIKE in parking lot one week Locally based racing publication in http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ 6AM-6PM ago. need of web design to help to email:mmmrentals@aol.com PAY $75 CALL MATT 4-4894. improve and maintain present sites. 232-2595 YOU MUST BE 18YRS OLD, A 
Strong graphic design ability a LOST on campus at Stanford game must. For more info, call 277-0033. 1 1/2 inch thick gold bracelet REWARD call Carol at 312-946-WANTED: FORMER ISLI PARTICI­1800. PANTS TO FACILITATE UPCOM­
ING CONFERENCE ON 11/18/00. FOUND ORUDY' WILL BE THE GUEST 
RESIDENT OF ST. JOSEPH GREAT APT. FOR RENT FOR BC COUNTY, IN , AND A REGIS­WEEKEND! TEAED VOTER. IF YOU ARE Turtle Creek Apt. for rent BC week-INTERESTED.CALL JOHN end, Sleeps 4 comfortably, parking COURT AT VOTERS REGISTRA-for one car, contact TION, 235-9530. adipaola@nd.edu For Rent 
TREK BIKE in parking lot one week ago. CALL MATT 4-4894.  SPEAKER. CALL JIM HART AT 277-1599 OR DR.LOMBARDO AT THE CCE.  HOUSE FOR LEASE 7101 415 bedrm. 3 blocks to campus. 773-486-8822  I need 5 Boston College tickets. Please call 274-0829  
FOUND: lronman Triathlon watch on Thursday night between Lafortune and Nieuwland Science Hall. Man's watch with black, gray, and orange coloring. Call Steph at 4-1675. LOST on campus at Stanford game 1 1/2 inch thick gold bracelet REWARD call Carol at 312-946­1800.  FOR SALE #1 Spring Break 2001 iii Cancun, Mazatlan, Acapulco, Jamaica, Florida & S.Padre Reliable TWA flights. Best Prices. Earn $$$ or FREE trips-call for details! 1.800.SURFS.UP WWW studentex­pres~.i,Qm  hotel available for Nebraska game 9/8 9/9 Call rich 917-946-1800 That Pretty Place, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available tor football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418­9487.  C-Webb Is The Bomb ...Out You have a major malfunction 4th Reich 4th Floor No•Jo loves jackrabbits Surprise! Adam didn't do anything stupid this week I'd like to draw your attention to  

FOUND: lronman Triathlon watch on Thursday night between LaFortune and Nieuwland Science Hall. Man's watch with black, gray, and orange coloring. Call Steph at 4-1675. 
FOUND TREK BIKE in parking lot one week ago. CALL MATT 4-4894 
LOST on campus at Stanford game 1 112 inch thick gold bracelet REWARD call Carol at 312-946­1800. 
Spring Break 2001 Book group of 15 and GO FREE! Book before Nov. 3 for FREE Meals! Visit us at sunsplashtours.com or call for tree info @ 1-800-426-771 o 
94 Mitsubishi Galant Black/Sunroof/195k $1950 obo Call (219) 634-0849 
1993 Ford Explorer (2 door) Manual 4-wheel drive 66,000 miles call: 784-8303 or 219-232-5557 CAR FOR SALE: 
some various records Students Wanted' Alum-owned 2stry 5-6 bdrm, 2 bath In CS: New: carpet, appliances, washer-Knott 49. Siegfried 1 (accidents do dryer, furnace-roof. & Security. happen) Huge yard. 1blk N. of Club 23. $1375 inc. until. Call Jason 240-Dan 5 bazillion, 4 other incompe­0322. nents 0 
NICE HOMES FOR NEXT  In Tecmo Super Bowl:  
SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND.  Andrew20  
GREAT AREA. 277-3097.  The World 1  

2520 sq. fl. home tor sale or lease There is a Seinfeld contest taking to buy in Knollwood. Moving. place in the Track Shack • call to $174k 277-7992 show your support 

Friday, November 3, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
MEN'S INTERHALL PLAYOFFS 
Undefeated Dillon to battle against Keenan Knights 

By MATT CASSADY and JOHNNY LEITNER Sports Writers 
It is deja vu all over again Su n day aft ern o o n fo r t he Dillon Big Red as it takes on the Knights of Keenan Hall at Stepan Fields. 
Dillon faces off in a rematch of a regular season game for the second time in two weeks Sunday at 1 p.m. Last week­end, the Big Red handed Stanford a loss for the second time this season. 24-6. 
They did not however escape unscathed, as the team sustained a few lasting bumps and bruises against the Griffins, according to senior captain Jason Visncr. 
"We have a couple separat­ed shoulders, a broken toe and· a few other things," he said. "But those have all been worked through and every­body should be playing this week, so we've got no excus­es." 
The Knights however, are not free from injury either. After polishing off the Alumni Dawgs in the previous playoff round. Keenan had some recovering to do this week to prepare for its semifinal matchup. 
Still the Knights come in 

hungry for a second shot at 
the top-seeded Big Red 
according to sophomore quar­
terback Billy Ellsworth. 
"After that Alumni game 

we've had a few serious 
injuries along with some minor ones where guys haven't been able to prac• tice," said Ellsworth. 
Even without the injuries. though, the teams would not have been the same according to Visner. 
"We don't even really think about that [prior meeting with Keenan]," he said. 
"Because we just played Stanford for the second time and it was obvious that the teams from the first and sec­ond week of the year and now deep in the playoffs are so much different that it is not even like playing the same team again." 
Keenan trying to use its 16­0 shutout loss to Dillon in week two of the interhall sea­son as motivation. 
"We are a little better offen­sively than we were last time," said Ellsworth. 
"We're going to just take what we've learned over the course of the season, go out there and execute our game plan better. Our linemen have a better grasp of what they are doing now, and our run­ning backs definitely have a better grasp of what they are doing, so I think we should be a little crisper this time around." 
While Stanford is hoping to make the necessary improve­ments to beat Dillon, the Big Red simply hopes for more of the same. 
"We just want to keep our offense ,mini! the wav it has been and keep winning games and v,,e will end up right where Wf\ want to be," said Visner. 
Where is that? 

Notre Dame Stadium: a place Dillon's football team hasn't found itself in the four years Visner has been here. 
Knott Hall vs. Sorin 
This Sunday, Knott and Sorin will resume a rivalry that began last season on intcrhall football's grandest stage: the championship game held in Notre Dame Stadium. 
In the wake of a 24-6 loss to Knott in last year's finale. the Sorin Otters are interested in retaliation, while the Juggs hope to keep their quest for a repeat championship alive. 
Knott Hall advanced to this the semifinal round of the playoffs by defeating Zahm Hall 7-0 last week In so doing. Knott's defense record­ed its fifth consecutive shutout, but the game was hardly uncontested, as Zahm threatened to tie the game on several occasions. 
"Our offense struggled," said Knott running back and captain Patrick Virtue. "But our defense kept us in there and played great." 
The Juggs plan on sharpen­ing their offensive execution for this week's clash with Sorin. 
"We will fix some plays and make some adjustments." said Virtue. "We'll be ready 
for Sorin." "Kno.tt has balance on 
The Otters. meanwhile, met offense and a strong pass Fisher in the first round. rush," said Crowe. "But when After a tight first half, Sorin we're clicking, we are very pulled away to win by a con­well-rounded." vincing 19-0 final score. Sorin and Knott both insist 
"We capitalized on some that their approaches will be turnovers, and the defense unchanged for their clash. played great and shut Fisher "We'll be playing the same down," said Sorin captain game," said Crowe. Mike Crowe. However, this game is hard­
Crowe hopes to avoid last ly just another day on the week's defensive mistake of field. rel'inquishing running yards "We have some playoff his­in the first half last week. tory," said Virtue, "and after 
"We  plan  last year,  we  
on  stepping  have  a  real  
up the run defense," said Crowe.  "Our offense struggled ... but our defense kept us in  rivalry. Sorin is always one of. the best  
"Knott's USU·  there and played great. "  teams."  
ally  big  up  C  r  o w  e  
front. so we'll have lo counter  Patrick Virtue Knott captain  agreed that this particu­lar match-up  
that."  has  some  
Both teams  extra signifi­ 
anticipate  an  cance.  

intense and competitive feud "Championship games are in their upcoming game. where these rivalries are 
"Sorin has a good offense born," he said. and is known for their pass­The two teams are statisti­ing, so this will be a tough c a 11 y almost even: Knott game," said Virtue. "The enters as the No. 2 seed, question is, who will be able Sorin as No. 3. to move the ball more?" Both teams are upbeat and 
Knott has showcased a confident about their diversified offensive scheme prospects of advancing this this season, but they ulti­Sunday. mately rely on a dominating "Last year we beat Keenan defense, so Virtue sees this in the playoffs, and they beat week's game as a collision of us in the championship game "strength on strength." for the two seasons before 
Crowe agrees, but adds that that, so we know what it's these two teams are solid on like to play rivals in the play­both sides of the ball. offs," said Crowe. 
I 
I The Institute for Educational Initiatives would like to thank: 
Bandlink STEP Elston Teamwork for Tomorrow Saints Young Life 
for a successful beginnning of their commitment to serve the children of South Bend through tutoring and mentoring. 

If you are interested in finding out more about these programs or starting your own tutoring/mentoring program, please call 1-4447 or visit:http://ieiweb.flanner.nd.edu:8020/ 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 3, 2000 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Coach Brey has big plans for the season, the JACC 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
In only his first year as Notre Dame's men's basket­ball coach, Mike Brey already has big plans for the .J oycc Center. 
"I told !athletic director! Kevin White that I'm fully qualified to run Bingo at the JACC. Brey told a crowd of about 150 in I.aFortune Ballroom last night." 
In the talk sponsored by the Alliance for Catholic Education, Brey answered questions about topics rang­ing from his support for the student section to his role organizing Bingo games to lrnlp offset the cost of attend­ing a Catholic education dur­ing his five years as a teacher. 
In his talk. Brey stressed the importance of the values he gained from his Catholic education. lie spoke exten­sively about his experiences as a student. a teacher and coach at DeMatha High School in Hyattsville, Md. 
"I taught six history class­es five days a week," he said. "I can't tell you how good that was for me. I don't think I'd be as confident without my DeMatha years." 
Brey's years at DeMatha and at George Washington University played a major role in his decision to accept the head coaching position vacated by Matt Doherty this summer. 
"When I left Duke, I had no plans to go back," the former attention, we can set our­Duke assistant coach said. "I selves up to recruit well and wasn't sure if big-time col­get back in the national pic­lege ball was worth the fami­ture." ly sacri­During fice.'' his talk,

"/ noticed that the passion
However, B r e y
and spirit at Notre Dame was
Brey felt repeatedly the envi­great. I wanted to do some stressed ronment at his hopes
Duke stuffhere."

N o t r c !'or the Dame pro­student vided a Mike Brey section to great qual­become a
Men's basketball coach 
ity of life for both himself 
an-d  his  
family.  
"It's  a  natural fit," Brey  

said. "I was never interested in going back to Duke. Instead. I wanted to do some Duke stuff here." 
"We're at a verv critical time right now," he added. "If we can handle this season right, with all the preseason 
Italian/Sicilian 
. 

Dlnhlg 5S. Mi<hlgan St
n ~­

Fresh prepared ~ers, -\ r&uth Bend, IN 46601 Pizza, Beverages ,..,.,_____.r'JI./ 219-233-1000 

deciding 
factor at 
Irish home 
games. 
"We need to have that stu­dent section alive," he said. "They arc so important !'or our success. 
Brey noted that student support has already picked up as a result of the presea­so n hype, which has Notre Dame picked among the nation's top 20 teams. Since 
•

Trattor1a 
tickets went on sale Tuesday, Brey estimated more than 1,500 season tickets had already been· purchased. 
"I noticed that the passion and spirit at Notre Dame was great," he said. "Duke's stu­den ts were good, but it wasn't even close to what we can do." 
Brey told last Thursday night's crowd some of his ideas to get more student support for the basketball 
the 

Qr[ando 

(J'{__ew Straw&err\es, (J'{__ew !}\uf&errles. !}\usk and cfeastln5 in ~d\evaf and Cf:arfy ~alssance 'Eu.rape 
Sunaa1, ~vember 5, 2000 2 pm. A_nnenbera A_uaitorium, Snite S\(useum 
6,lckets ~quired: S3 studmts • S6 smlors • S8 'l'{g)/~ emp(oyus • SIO 9mera( Admission 6)\dcets A-VAllA&Ce Al tftc Sfe,cfortune Cfiox Office, (219) 631-8128 
cfor comp(n£ In onnatlon, visit htt ://www.nd..£d.u/~ 0""5 or calf (219) 631-6201 
team. 
One possibility is student­only pep rallies where the students would be able to get an inside look at thfl Irish preparations for their oppo­nent. At the rallies, Brey hopes to get a few students down on the court, run them through an opponent's offense, and show the stu­dents a sampling of how the Irish would attack the other team. 
Consort




~, q~,eI~:~~~~
y~-:

•<: :::.:,,_~~.,.,,_. Restauranl & Lounge Open 7 Days ',,., .•.~ . • LunchSpecial$4.75--Mon-Fri11:30-3:00PM ' ,:.it .1 Dinner Staning at $6.45 
~.. ~-· Sunday • Thursday 11 :30 AM . 10:00 PM · ,· I Friday-Saturday 11:30AM-11:00PM 
·J.j(, · ' 

Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday · .., I 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
•,1 $8.95 for Adults ~3.95 for Children under 10 
222 Dixie Way, South Bend (219) 272-7376 

student Rally for Volleyba// 


Notre Dame vs. North Carolina Saturday, November 4, 2000 at 7:00pm Enter Gate 10 JACC, Free Admission for ND students 
Come out and support your ND Volleyball Team as they take on North Carolina! 
*The first 50 students get a free hat! 
*Students will compete in a no-holds-bar serving contest to win adidas merchandise and gift certificates to Chili's, Papa Vino's, Papa John's and Blimpie! 
*The dorm with the highest percentage of its residents in attendance ( over 20%) wins $400! 
Sponsored by Student Activities and the Athletic Department 
Other Volleyball Games this Weekend at Notre Dame: 
Friday, November 3-Notre Dame vs. Boston College 7:00pm 
Breast Cancer Awareness Game-Receive free admission by donating $3 to the Alumni Association's Breast Cancer Awareness Program 
Sunday, November 5-Notre Dame vs. Providence 2:00pm 
f-rid.1y, November 3, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
LISA VEL TE/Tl1e Observer Lori Schulte swims during the Notre Dame Relays. The Belles open their dual meet season tonight against the University of Chicago and travel to Ontario, Canada to compete this weekend. 
Belles set for start of dual meets 
By JANEL MILLER 
Spores Writer 
The Belles' swimming and diving team i!; going global. 
After opening their dual meet season tonight at Rolfs Aquatic Center against the University of Chicago, the Saint Mary's swim­ming and diving team will pack their bags and head north to Ontario, Canada to compete against the University of Western Ontario. 
The team ½ill be accompanied by their brother team Wabash College and the Notre Dame men's S\.\un­mlng and diving team. 
"We have been training very hard," said head coach Gretchen Hildebrandt. "They are tired. Tired of swimming and probably tired of me. This weekend gives everyone a break from practice and Saint Mary's and finally gives them the opportunity to show off their hard work." 
The meet provides a much-need­ed break from training for the Belles, who have been in the water nearly one mon_th sans-competition. 
"We arc so excited to finally com­pete, to break up the monotony of practicing both morning and night," said senior co-captain Olivia Smith. 
Coming off a fifth-place MIAA fin­ish last February, the non-league competition will get the Belles geared to take on their MIAA com­petitors later in the season. The Belles season debut saw them finish sixth at Notre Dame Relays in early October, and pressure for faster performances has been building in the team since then. 
"We came out and swam hard at ND relays and it gave the ladies somewhere to start form," said Hildebrandt. "Now we are looking for the rewards of improving them­selves and the motivation to carry us from now until our next competi­tion." 
The Belles, having defeated the University of Ol.icago last year are looking toward a repeat perfor­mance. Witl1 onlv 11 swimmers and no divers, U of Cwill have difficulty in dealing with the depth of this year's Belles squad. The Belles will 
• also be showcasing diver senior Ryann Cox, who will compete in her first collegiate competitoin. 
"She will be doing dives with high 
degrees of difficulty and has no 
pressure from competition," 
Hildebrandt said. 'Tm excited for 
her." 

The Belles \Nill need to focus on 
endurance for the upcoming week­
end. focusing almost exclusively on 
the long events. In preparing for 
this weekend's match-ups, 
Hildebrandt has concentrated on 
the mental aspects of swimming 
long course events. 

"The younger swimmers have never swam a 200 yard breast­stroke, or 200 yard butterfly race and it's been over a vear for the returners as well," she said. 

• 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

• Be The Shirt coordinatorl
·····. 

Pick up an a_ppl ication at student Activities in Lafortune. Applications are due by Wed, November 8th 
Boston College's bread and butter. She is the go-to play­
Soccer 
er the Irish must contain. continued from page 24 "She's extremely danger­
_______...::...____ ous," Waldrum said. "You refueled Irish attack is Eagle 
just have to know where she goalkeeper Courtney is on the field," Schaeffer, who is a leading 
The containment plan will candidate for first team all~ be aided by the return of co·nferencc team cap­honors. 
tain and 

"We're just need to take top defen­
Schaeffer has dis­advantage of the chances sive player played an K e I I y
we do get." 
Lindsey, ability this who will season to Randy Waldrum see action in a limited 
uncanny 
make clutch Irish head coach 
saves. Her play could be an x-fac­tor. 
"She's one of the best," Waldrum said. 
Defensively, the Irish will once again have to contend with the likes of Moore, who put them in the unfamiliar hole that nearly made th-e first meeting a day of hor­rors. The speedy Moore is 
role after 
missing a 

month with a strained MCL. 
"We're going to try and get her some time," Waldrum said. "Hopefully she'll play some and then we'll go from there," 
Should the . Irish win tonight, they will face the winner of the Syracuse­Conneticut game Sunday. 

Wednesday, November 8 Friday -Saturday, November IO -11 at 8 pm 
Sunday, November 12, 2000 at2:30pm 
Little Theatre 
5,foo Ma,y', Coll•·•o/18-~~~
~NOTIIEDAME, IN 

For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's Box Office at 
284-4626 


BOMBAY BOUTIQUE 
ND and SMC Students, Staff, Faculty take another 
10°/o OFF with VALID ID 
located at 2 3 and Edison next to Lula's 
Cafe. Phone 271-8865 
Clothing and gifts, open seven days 
-------~~-----­
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 3, 2000 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL PLAYOFFS 
Welsh to duke it out with Walsh at Stepan 
By LAUREN CONTI and _ 
SUSAN CARPENTER 
Sports Writers 
The Whirlwinds of Welsh Family I!all hope to continue their season-spanning undefeated streak this Sunday at 3 p.m., when they face off against the Walsh Wild Women in the semifi­nals of the women's interhall play­
om,. 
The Whirlwinds' star players, Jen Grubb and Vanessa Lichon, have contributed to Welsh's unbeatable offensive play this sea­son, helping lheir teammates to snag the top seed going into the playolio;. 
"It's probably between Jen and Vanessa as to who's the best play­er in the league," said Walsh wach Steve Dillenburger. "And it doesn't help us that they're on the same team." 
Though the odds seem stacked in Welsh's favor, the Wild Women, seeded fourth, can't be counted out entirely. 
"We're nervous, but at the same time we know that in the past couple years, the No. 1 seed, the team that everyone sees as the shoo-in, hac; lost in or before the finals," said Lauren Walsh, Walsh's sophomore quarterback. "It could happen again." 
Walsh will lead her team's young but poised offense. The Wild Women will rely on their characteristically strong defense to halt Welsh's olTense. unstop­pable so lar this season. 
"We'll probably make a few offensive changes for Sunday," said Dill1\nburger of Walo;h's game plan. "Defense, they've just bP.en solid all season, and hopefully they'll continue that." 
"We played well all year, but then last game was a little rough for us," said Welsh coach Casey Bouton. "But it was a good thing, I think it grou-ncled us a little, reminded us not to take things for granted. We can't do that, our O­line has to be ready to handle Walsh's great defense." 
Overall, the game should be a competitive one. The Wild Women will haveto maintain their highest level of play in their effort to stop the Whirlwinds. 
"We're going to have to play really well to stick with them," said Dillcnburgur. 

FIii the Void 
..,..nd.eduf-slNQhlolo.html 
VOTE 

Off-Campus vs. Howard 
Howard and Off-Campus enter 
Sunday's interhall semifinals with 
limited knowledge of their non­
league opponents. 
To get into the semifinals, QfT. 
Campus defeated Badin 6-0. 
Coach Paul Diamantopoulos 
blamed foolish mistakes and 
dropped passes for his offense's 
inability to get touchdowns. 
However, the Crime hopes to use 
its speed and inventive plays to 
come out strong against Howard. 
"If we don't make silly mistakes 
and we get confidence, then we 
will be able to get points," 
Diamantopoulos said. 
The Off-Campus defense has 
been solid all year. In last week's 
game against Badin. the defense 
was effoctive at applying pressure 
to the quarterback and batting 
down passes. 
"The defense is a cohesive 
unit," Diamantopoulos said. 
"We're going to wreak havoc on 
the offense." 
The Off-Campus defense will have to be strong to counter Howard's offense, which scored 20 points last week in its win over Cavanaugh. Vanessa Nero caught two touchdown passes and Elizabeth Klimek had one, all from the arm of quarterback Jill Veselik. 
"We are really confident about our offense," said Howard coach Brad Untiedt. "They had a big game last week and we hope to see the same thing on Sunday." 
"If we come out and play against Off-Campus like we did against Cavanaugh," Untiedt said. "Then I like our chances. We're ready." 
"It is better to be the underdog because there is less pressure," Howard's Jeanne Trelease said. "We're looking for another upset." · 
"At this point in the tourna­ment, rankings mean nothing,"said captain Marita Keane. "We just need to go into this game like any other and put points on the board." Diamantopoulos had the same sentiments. 
"They [the Ducks) are just another opponent, and we are not going to treat them any dilfer­ently ,"he said. 



Now's the time ... to finish your degree at BETHEL COLLEGE 
Adult Education for Today's Busy Lifestyles 
• Experience a nontraditional environment 
• Attend accelerated classes 
• 
Advance your career 

• 
Realize your dreams 


• Focus on values 
Call Today! 
219-257-3350 or 800-422-4251 adultprograms@bethel-in.edu 
men's Swimming takes on Oakland Uniuersity in Rochester, michigan today at 7p.m. 
Friday, November 3, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS 



Swimmer Katie Crawford played an integral role in Notre Dame's win against No. 17 Miami. 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Sports Writer 

Rankings don't mean much. 
For the Irish women's swim­ming and diving team. last week­end's wash of the No. 17 Miami Hurricanes proved that beating its ranked opponents would be a little easier than expected this season. Hut while last weekend's meet proved that the No. 18 Irish have more talent than most observers expected, they will have their work cut out for them as they face off in six matchups over two meets this weekend. 
Facing off in a quad meet against Miami of Ohio, Pittsburgh, and Kenyon College in Oxford, Ohio Friday, Notre Dame ""ill con­tinue its weekend against Purdue and the University of Evansville Saturday. But regardless of last weekend's win -which put the 
Ftw k.,Dr Gfl-OWING uP IN 


tVt/l.... HEAILD OF AN AP 81 Ol-OGY ct-Arr. 

ONE , N , NNEfl..._-CtTY Lor ANGEL-Er. COACHED 20 OF H1 r 26 rTvDENTr TO 3 Ofl..._ eETTEft. ON THE 


(OM!' l-E'I'<~ I-IOIN Yov Cl'\N JOIN Tl-IE' co~r Of' OoJTrTl'<NDiNG l'<ND D1vO..r!' ILHE'NT COU.!'G!' GIV\Do.JATH Of' Al.I.. ACAll!'MiC Ml'<JOILr INI-IO 
COMMIT TWO Y!'.A.11..f TO TE"-CH IN (),.)1-. N/-,.TJON'r MOfT 1.wtJH--1-.f.'iOvME'll fUJOOU. 
INFORMATION SESSION Wednesday, November 8, 2000 • 6:00 p.m. University of Notre Dame DeBartolo Hall, Rm.120 
TEACHFORAMERICA 

1-Eoo-n•,-...-1 l.5 o iN1N1N.TE,-...cHro1<."-MEl--1 Ct\.01-c 
ftCONO APP/...1 CATI ON DEArn.tNE If JANvA~Y I 612.D O I 
Irish at 2-0 on the season-they aren't counting any of their victo­ries early. While the quad meet will be an opportunity to post solid individual performances. Saturday's duel with Purdue won't be easy. 
"It's always nice to crush a Big Ea,;t opponent like we did," said senior co-captain Carrie Nixon. "Purdue is going to be different... they're about the same caliber level as Miami. We have to beat 
them from the start, 
and not make them 
think they can win." 
The Irish will find 
their stiffest competition in Purdue senior Ginger Lakos. who comes back to Purdue fresh from Olympic competition in Sydney. A member of the Hungarian Olympic swim team, Lakos will establish her domi­nance in the 100-yard and 200-yard freestyle. Sophomore Lisa Lange should pose a threat in the breastroke events, and senior Missy Bromley should keep the pace in the 50-yard freestyle. 
But the Irish match up evenly, relying on the strength of fresh­man Lisa Garcia in the butterfly and individual medley, junior Allison Lloyd and freshman Laurie Musgrave in the breastroke events and freshman Danielle Hulick in the sprint freestyle events. 
The Irish will be with­out senior sprinter Nixon for the third con­secutive week. howev­er. Nixon, who has not competed so far in the. 2000 season du.e to a shoulder injury, had an MRI exam Wednesday to determine if the injury will warrant surgery. The injury could be anything from a torn tendon to anoth­er tendinitis flare-up, Nixon said. 
"The pain has gotten so bad that I can't make it through a whole prac­tice," Nixon said Thursday. "I want an answer... but I can't keep going on like I am right now." 
Scheduled to meet with doctors on Monday, Nixon could have surgery as early as next week, if needed. But for the meantime, she will continue to sit the sidelines during the Irish's meets this week­end. 
"It's hard... you want to be out there so bad. The other girls are tired and exhausted [in prac­tice]. and you can say. 'Keep going,' but you're not in the water," she said. 
But should the 2000 Big East swimmer of the year be sidelined for her senior season, a fifth-year is a definite option, Nixon said. 
"It doesn't make me horribly sad...right now. I've got the mindset that I'll be back at the end of the season. As a cap­tain, I need to be there." 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 3, 2000 
----::=::.=====-=========== 
Basketball 
continued from page 24 
The third standout in the Irish 
starting linnup is sophomore 
shuoLing guard Alida Hatay. Ratay 
was named to lhf' second team 
all-Big East squad thi'i prcscason, 
an honor she puts second Lo Lhe 
tNtm's success. 
"It's a great honor t.n be picked on that tPam." said Hatay. "But my main concern is to hrlp Notre Dame do the best that we can in anyway." 
With guard Danielle Green and forward Julie Henderson lost to graduation, senior Kelley Siemon and junior Ericka llancy move into starting roles. 
The starting role is nothing new to Siemon. who started her frl'.sh­man and sophomore years before coming off of the bench last sea­son. 
The 6-l'oot-l I laney is a strong dcfl~nsive player who has shown the ability to score in multiple ways. 
"Erica's played very well, espe­cially in the last couple of days," McGraw said Thursday. 
The lirsl face off the b1~nch for the Irish this season will be• that of a freshman -guard Jeneka Joyce. Juyct~ is a mature player who is known for strong ball-han­dling and shooting skill-;. 
Despite being asked to play with a veteran group that has been playing together for as many as five years. Joyct~ feels quite com­fortable with her new team. 
"I think it's been as smooth as it can be at the moment," said .Joyce. 
The Irish take the court against an opponent !'or the first time thb season Sunday evening at 7 p.m. as they take on the Ohio All-Stars. 

VOLLEYBALL 
Irish return home to battle Big East foes 

By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
Sporrs Writer 

Notre Dame volleyball returns home this weekend hoping to remain undefeat­ed in the Big East as it takes on Boston College and Providence, along with non­conference foe North Carolina. 
"Our team expects to come out strong against every team and keep playing with the confidence that we had last weekend," said junior Marcie Bomhack. "llopefully everyone on the team will have a chance to play." 
The No. 23 Irish, currently 18-5 overall and 8-0 in con­fe rc n ce play, open the weekend Friday against the Boston College Eagles. The Irish have won their last six matches against the Eagles. Boston College is 10-15 overall and 3-5 in the Big East this year. 
Saturday could bring the toughest test of the week­end, as North Carolina is 21­5 this year. Top player Laura Green poses a thrnat to the Irish defense with 338 kills in 2000. 
"I think that out of the three teams we play, North Carolina will be the biggest competition for us, but we have to be prepared for everyone we play," said Bomhack. 
Notre Dame holds the his­torical advantage with a 3-1 
series lead. The game will 
be televised at··11 p.m. 
Saturday. 
Back in thn Big East, Notre Dame will look for its sixth consecutive threP­game win over Providence Sunday. 
The Friars, l<J-12 overall and 2-6 in the Big East, will rely on Sarah Katingcr to provide Providence's offcnsc and increase her 2000 total of 457 kills. 
"I think one thing our team can do that we haven't in the past is finish the team off," Bomhack said. "When we get a lead, we need lo play hard to the 15th point and not let them come back at all." 
The Irish am coming off Big East road victories over Connecticut 15-11, 11-15, 15-5, 13-15, 16-14) and St. .John's (15-0, 15-9, 15-10). 
Senior Christi (;irton post­ed her career-high of 31 kills against the lluskies, while Marcie Bomhack added 19 kills and l j digs. .Junior Kristy Krcdier addc\d 21 kills and nine digs. Sophomore .Janie Alderetl' contributed her carner-b,~st defensive performance with 18 digs for the Irish. 
"I think that wc1've played a lot tougher competition throughout lh1~ year than the teams we're playing and have played on a much higher level." Bomhack s~tid. "That should give us an advantage." 


Castle Point 
Select Units 
Available for 
Next Semester 
::•within Minutes of Campus::• -Renovated, spacious one and two bedroom apartments, some with lofts. 
-Includes membership in the new 
Castle Point Racquet Club 
and Fitness Center. 
AROUND THE NATI.ON 
Friday, November 3, 2000 A LOOK AT Tms WEEKEND'S COLLEGE FOOTBALL ACTION page 21 

Observer experts 
MIAMI 

FLORIDA STATE 
MICHIGAN 

Season Record 22-9 
MIAMI 

FLORIDA STATE 
MICHIGAN 

Season Record 
20-II 
MIAMI 

FLORIDA STATE 
MICHIGAN 

Season Record 17-14 



GAME OF THE WEEK 


against Florida State. 
While strong on offense, the Hokies are admittedly suspect on defense. Their defensive line has four brand-new starters, and the sec­ondary sports three rookies as well. 
Conversely, Miami's defense, led by line­backer Dan Morgan. can play with anybody. 
Michael Vick is the X­factor. If he plays, the Hokies will compete. If not, the Hurricanes should effectively posi­tion themselves to stay home for the holidays in the Orange Bowl. 
By PEYTON BERG 
5ports W ricer 
Who needs the BCS poll? Entering its final month, the 2000 college football season has given fans a makeshift playoff system. By bowl season, most top 10 teams will have already played each other. Last week's Oklahoma-Nebraska shootout gave the nation a new No. 1, at least for a week. This Saturday, get ready for the Big East Championship and the battle for No. 2. 
Virginia Tech enters 

the Orange Bowl at 8-0 after last year's 11-1 campaign. A season ago, while the Seminoles cel­ebrated after their Sugar 
Bowl victory, the rest of the nation stood in awe of a redshirt freshman quarterback named Michael Vick. Vick's stunning combination of strength, speed and ath­leticism made the vaunt­ed Florida State defense look like a high school junior varsity team. 
Unfortunately, Vick sprained his ankle in Saturday's 37-34 victory against Pittsburgh. Coach Frank Beamer has 
named senior Dave Meyer the starter this week, but claims Vick will play if he's healthy. For the Hokies, this could not have come at a worse time. 
The No. 3 Miami Hurricanes a.re peaking at the right time. 
After a September loss at Washington, coach Butch Davis refocused his team and the Hurricanes have responded. 
Sophomore quarter­back Ken Dorsey has emerged as a talented leader, as evidenced by his game-winning drive 
OTHER TOP GAMES 

Clemson at Florida State: 
Bowden Bowl H could have been bigger, but Georgia Tech upset the then-No. 4 and undefeated Tigers last Saturday 31­28. 
Son Tommy Bowden brings his team into Tallahassee looking for revenge after 1999's 17-14 contest. but don't expect any parental favors. Quarterback Woody Dantzler has emerged as a two­wav threat this season, and Clemson needs him to play well Saturday. 
Oad Bobby Bowden's Seminoles still entertain National Championship aspi­rations. but must host Florida in two weeks. Quarterback Chris Weinkc con­tinues to nurse a sprained ankle, but looked sharp in pasting NC Stale, 58-14. 
Florida State desperately needs a kicking game. After four years of bliss with Sebastian Jankowski. FSU kickers have struggled mightily. This does not bode well for a team that hopes to be in the Orange Bowl at season's end. 
Michigan at Northwestern: 
This game of Hig Ten also-rans has Drew Brees and Purdue to thank for their No. 2 league status. 
On paper, Michigan should crush No. 23 Northwestern. The problem in the Big Ten this season is that somebody keeps forgetting to tell Northwestern it's not supposed to be good. 
This Wildcats team is not equal to the Gary Barnett ·95 and '96 teams that beat Michigan twice en route to a Rose Bowl and a 15-1 conference record. However, it does have a nasty habit of winning games that it shouldn't. 
Last week, Northwestern was down by 21 against Minnesota, then won on a tipped pass to Sam Simmons with 41 seconds left. The winner of this game most likely will earn a Citrus Bowl berth and an outside chance at the Big Ten Championship should Purdue fal­ter. 
around the dial 
Virginia Tech at Miami 
noon, CBS channel 22 

Michigan State at Ohio State 
noon. h:)'PN 

Michigan at Northwestern 
3:30 p.m., ABC channel.58 
Louisville at So. Mississippi 
3:30 p.m., FOXSPN 

Clemson at Florida State 
7.30 p.m.• ESPN 


..------------------------------------------------------------~~ ~ ------­page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 3, 20000 
HOCKEY 

Irish look to regroup in weekend series against Red Hawks 

areas a grade or plus or minus," Poulin said. "Our spPcial teams has gotten a minus in every game this year. and that is something we are working hard to change." 
Another arl•a the Irish are grappling with is goal­tending. 
Sophomore Tony Zasowski started the sea­son but was pulled in favor or Jeremiah Kimento after the first two games. Kimento played well, but gave up four goals against Michigan State last Thursday. That led Poulin to give Zasowski his first start in three weeks on Friday night against the Spartans. Zasowski played well, giving up just three goals on 31 shots. 
Although Poulin didn't speculate on the long-term goalie situation, he did clear up speculation on who would start tonight against the Red Hawks. 
"I think Tony played well enough against Michigan State that he deserves the right to start against Miami this week," Poulin said. 
The Miami Red Hawks enter the game in the same position as Notre Dame. They have had a tough early sea.son sched­ule, and dropped their first two CCHA games to Michigan, which may be the best team in the CCHA 
That doesn't mean the Hed Hawks don't have tal­ent. 
The Red Hawks' str~ngth is in their goal scoring. \.liami is led by junior Jason Deskins and senior Gregor Krnjnc, and have freshmen Greg Hogeboom and Mike Kompon waiting in the wings. The l'.otre Dame defensive unit will have to step up to contain the Red llawks' potent scoring attack. 
As if that wasn't enough to keep Notre Dame occu­pied, they also have to worry about playing on the road against an enthusias­tic stud.cnt body. Miami (Ohio) plays in the intimate Groggin Center, which seats 2.200 and can get loud. 
"Miami has a tough building to play in," Pc,ulin said. "They have a great student section." 
The Irish need a good road win to help build their confidence and get the season back on track. Going down to Miami this weekend might do the trick, but the Irish will need to improve in some fundamental and avoid worrying about things beyond their control. 
The game strategy, how­ever is simple. 
"We just need to line up and play," said Gill. 
By MATT ORENCHUK 
Spmcs Wm~r 
The Notre Dame hockey 
tf'am came closC' to beating 
Michigan State last Friday 
night. 
But close dorsn't mean 
win. 
Instead. the Irish dropp!'d that game to the Spartans, and enter this weekend's st>riPs against the Miami (Ohio) Hed flawks with a 2-5-1 rPcord. 
That doesn't mean head coach Dave Poulin is ready to hit the panic button yet. Instead, Poulin has stressed fundamentals to his team, working on the spots that have troubled the Irish early in the sea­son. 
One area that has tor­mented Notre Dame is gc,al scoring. 
Before the season start­ed, the Irish were pegged to have a great oITense. They were deep at center, and all of the experience seemed to be on the offen­sive side. Yet only twice in eight games have the Irish produced more than three 
goals. 
With an inexperienced defense, the Irish know the gc,al production needs to increase. 
"This week we have worked on drills that stress going to the net," freshman center Aaron Gill said. "Instead of shoot­ing it from the outside, we are looking at getting sec­ond and third chances in front of the net and putting away the rebound." 
Notre Dame has also struggled on special teams. 
Against Michigan State last weekend, the Irish gave up five power-play goals, while only gntting one on the offensive end. That trend needs to change if the Irish are going to make a serious run at the NCAA tourna­ment. 
"Every game, we give the di!Terent fundamental 

Call 259-2000 for more details 

I 
Fill the Void / www.nd.edu/-slee/vote.html . 
VOTE! 

NEW SITES JUST ADDED!!! 
Application Deadline NOUJ EHtended! ! 
Take the 

WHEN? 
The week of January 4-11 Specific 48 hour period Set by each Site. 
WHERE? 

In nearly fifty (5 0 !) U.S. Cities If you live near a city ­YOU can take the Plunge! 
SITES NOW AVAILABLE: 
DENVER, LOS ANGELES, NEW ORLEANS AND PORTLAND 
IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO TAKE THE PLUNGE 
SIGN UP NOW! 
DEADLINE EXTENDED UNTIL FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2000 
Registration forms available at the CSC & at www.ndtoday.com AcceptinQ Applications until 10:00 PM at the CSC 


DENUER, NElJJ ORLEANS, LOS ANGELES, AND PORTLAND NOW Ruailable! ! ! ! ! ! ! Albany .... Albuquerque....Boston+Buffalo+Chicago+Cincinnati+Cleueland Columbus....oallas•Oes Moines+Oetroit... Grand Rapids...Honolulu Houston 
+ lndianapolis+Mobile+New York .... oakland+Philadelphia 
PhoeniH.... Pittsburgh4-St. Petersburg+South Bend.... san Antonio San Diego...washington o.c....RND MORE! 



Friday, November 3, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
FOURTH AND INCHES 

Fox TROT 
IT Tool( COOPING MYSELF  
u&GHH!  HEIZE IN MY ROOM ALL  
FINALLY!  NIGHT, SoT I FINISHED IT!  
\  

THE F1RST TH£ SENTENCE. 8001<? 
I 
\ 
TYLER

TOM KEELEY 
THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 

BILL AMEND 


I THINK OH, SH~ESPEARE PttooEY. MAY SE THAT'S A. 
MY 111£.W 
FAVORITE 
SUSJ'ECT. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Don't get stressed about your weekend plans... 
See GUSTER tonight at 7:30 in Stepan Center, 
OR check out our 2 dollar movies: A Perfect Storm playing in 101 DeBartolo & Rules of Engagement playing in 155 DeBarrolo \ .. 8:00 and 10:30pm 
•s, do your laundry for FREE at 
J,iu Free Laundry Day this Sunday in Badin and Lafortune! 
...make it simple with ~ 
50 Spiels 

51 Ezra Pound style 
52 All you can eat 
53 Title heroine of a 1925 musical 
54 Time out 

55 White House press secretary who once hosted "Saturday Night Live" 
DOWN 

1 Musical transport 2 Coffee holder 3 Snorer's victim 4 Voiceless 5 Level 6 Belletrist Madame de 7 "Beowulf' and others 8 Stopping-off the Cyclops 
sites utterance 37 Sample after Polyphemus9 Anticipate the 27 Popular fishing seasoning 
arrival of spots 38 Kangaroo, e.g. 47 Kinfolk: Abbr. 10 Ape 29 Prior to 
41 Calligraphers 49 Rosencrantz or11 More 30 6 on a phone 43 Buenos Guildenstem

diaphanous dial 
12 "Hiroshima" 32 Party member's title Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
writer, 1946 are available by touch-tone phone: 
14 Application info 33 Eastern 
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 34 Next-to-last #1
15 Critiqued Annual subscriptions are available for the 
Beatles hit 

22 Demanded, as best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 a tax 35 Pursuit in a suit years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Puzzle by Manny Nosowsky 
25 Happy-go-lucky 36 Digs out 

HOROSCOPE 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Roseanne Barr, Lulu, Charles Bronson, Adam Ant, Dennis Miller 
Happy Birthday: Tackle one thing at a time. to ensure your success. If you overload your plate, you will fall short of your goals. You need time to · take care of your own well-being. Restoring your energy will be a must if you want to be able to enjoy all your accomplishments. Organization will be at the heart of your success. Plan carefully and you will excel. Your numbers: 3, 10, 26, 30, 41, 47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 

Financial limitations will result ifyou are too giving. Don't pay too much in order to join a club or group. Intel­lectual social activities and enhanc­ing your own appearance should be on your agenda. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 

Family members may try to burden you with their problems. Offer sug­gestions, not your valuable time. You can make career moves ifyou act fast when opportunities arise. 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Enjoy the company of old friends. You will obtain insight into your own situa­tion by observing others. Make per­sonal changes that will lift your spir­its and bring you a higher self-image. 
00000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Hold onto your money. Financial limita­tions will result if you have been too generous with others. Don't let those you live with upset you. Follow your instincts and stick to your original 
ideas.000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Emotional depression may lead to partnership problems. Take a close look at con­tracts or agreements. You can stabi­lize your personal relationship if you 
Birthday Baby: Your high energy coupled with your disciplined attitude will ensure your success throughout life. You have what it takes to contribute to whatever you believe in. Don't sit back; you are a leader, not a follower. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialaslcom, astromate.com.) 
C 2000 Universal Ptess5yndicate 
EUGENIA LAST 

are willing to communicate honestly. 
000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't let your lowered vitality stop you from completing important paper­work. You may not be up to pat; but you can accomplish things if you refrain from letting others upset you. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct 22): Leader-. ship can be yours if you are willing to put additional work into organi­zations you belong to. Concentrate on being the best you can be. A new outlook is in order. 00000 
SCORPIO (Oct 23--Nov. 21): Your home environment may be disrupt­ed. Try not to take things to heart. Acceptance is the key. Don't be afraid to ask for help. You'll be sur­prised at how willing others are to helpout.00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Travel must be on your mind. Try to get out or at least look into the possibility of taking a vacation. You will meet people who will be able to help you achieve your goals. 0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 

Don't push yourself too hard. You may want to spend some time with friends or relatives. You need to get some sound advice regarding your financial dilemma. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 181: 

Your partner may not be that easy to deal with. Don't judge others for the choices they make. You must let loved ones have their own space if you wish to keep things amiable. 00 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Overtime may be necessary. Take care of overdue accounts and look into possible investments. Cultural and philosophic groups may lead you in the wrong direction. 000 
.... 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

1 Times up 
7 Any little college 13 Awful 15 Grand style 16 1988 
Schwarzenegger film 17 Pilot light, e.g. 18 Spear carrier? 19 Corner pieces 
20 "_Ordinary Man" ("My Fair Lady" song) 
21 Vichyssoise ingredients 23 Enthusiasm 24 Untagged, in tag 26 River to the English Channel 


27 Jug 
28 Too shy a lover 
31 Storied weaver 
32 Convoked 
38 Prophet whose 
name means 
"salvation" 
39 Country-and­western singer Reeves 
40 Drug made from 
orchids 42 Go without saying 
43 "As You Like It'' exile site 45 Little critter 46 Pronghorn antelope habitat 48 Recycling candidate 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
PM N Y O ..,,,+,=+:-+=+:-:-1 N G I N -:-r:--t-:--t-:-t-:-1 A L T 0 
S E L E D T E A R TRO EDDA 


Going for the rebound 
PORTS 
page 22 

OTHE 
page 24 BSERVER Friday, November 3, 2000 

WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Irish seek Big East title at weekend conference tourney 
By KEV1N BERCHOU 
Sports Writer 
The last time the Eagles of Boston College were in town to take on the top-ranked Notre Dame women's soccer team. the Irish found them­selves in an unfamiliar posi­tion -behind. 
The Eagles were flying high on Oct. 13 and gave the Irish a scare. 
Junior midfielder Mcghan Moure scored early to give 
season long. The Irish ral­lied for the victory, but as the Eagles pre­pare to touch down for a Friday night Big East tourna­ment semifinal showdown, Notre Dame head coach Handy Waldrum is anticipat­ing a difficult rematch. 
"They're a great team." Waldrum said. "They did a great job defensively on our forwards. They were very physical. I think they could be one of the best teams we've faced all year." 
The Irish attack quelled in the first meeting figures to receive a boost for the rematch. 

Freshman Amy Warner wiII play in her third consecutive game after missing the first game with an injury to her right knee. Warner, however, will not start, as she contin­ues to play her way back into shape. 
Instead, Waldrum will go with a front line of Meotis Erikson. Amanda Guertin, and Ali Lovelace, all of whom arc dangerous in the open lield. 
"We have lo do a little bit 
more offen­
sively," 


Boston "/ think they could be one Wald rum College the 1­
ofthe best teams we've said. "We'll 
0 lead, mark­bring Amy
ing the first faced all year." 
in off the 
time Notre 

bench for a Dame had 
Randy Waldrum boost. but I 
trailed all think our

Irish head coach 
starters are 
certainly 

capable of establishing things early." 
Patience will also be a key if Notre Dame is to return to its seemingly annual place in the conference finals. In the first meeting against the Eagles, the Irish did not do a good job controlling the ball. Instead of waiting for opportunities to develop, they were too quick to lire off shots. 
"Certainly we have to hold the ball a bit longer," Waldrum said. "We just need to take advantage of the chances we do get." 
Charged with halting the 
see SOCCER/page 17 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish excited to tip off season at Sunday's exhibition 
-

By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
FoUowing a season which ended with a to loss to Texas Tech in the NCM tournament, the Irish women's basketball team looks to rebound this season behind the strong play of All-American center Ruth Riley and a group of guards that head coach Muffet McGraw sees as, "probably our best group of guards ever." 
The Irish enter the season ranked third in the nation by Sports Illustrated for Women, behind only perennial powerhous­es Cormecticut and Tennessee. 
The conference coaches voted the Scarlet Knights of Rutgers sec­ond behind Connecticut while pre­dicting the Irish third. Notre Dame head coach Muffet McGraw believes the Irish will be stronger than ever this season. 
"We're excited about the season ... we have great leadership in our senior class," said McGraw. "We had a really great preseason in strength and conditioning. I think this is probably the best shape we've ever been in." 
· The Irish arc led by senior All­American Ruth Riley. Riley -who last year became the first Notre Dame women's basketball player ever to earn first team All-America honors -is the two-time defend­ing Rig East Defensive Player of the Year. She aL'io led the Irish in both scoring in rebounding last season. 
With Hiley on the court, Notre Dame is a dominant team. However, keeping Riley on the court for extended minutes has been a problem throughout her career. as Riley has shown a ten­dency to get into foul trouble. 
"You can tell at practice she's really concentrating on not foul­ing," said McGraw. "She's doing a really good job of' being that pres­ence in the lane without fouling. She's really working on when she can block the shot and when she can't." 
While Riley provides necessary scoring and rebounding. the heart and soul of the Irish team is fifth­year senior point guard Niele Ivey. Ivey is a second-team all-Big East honoree who has overcome two ACL injuries during her career to emerge as one of the most talented point guards in thu country. 
•·1 would say that Neile is defi­nitely the leader of our team," said McGraw. "As the point guard she has the ball in her hands a lot. She runs the team. She's just a very poised. very smart player." 
sec BASKETBALL/page 20 

• Women's Swimming vs. Boston College • Men's Swimming vs. Miami Big East semifinal at Oakland 
SPORTS ti 
Today, 4 p.m. Today, 7 p.m. 
Today, 7 p.m. 

• vs. ·Ohio All Stars
ATA 

Women's Swimming at Miami Sunday, 7 p.m. 
vs. Boston College Today, 7 p.m. ~ vs. Chicago and Wabash :~ Today and Saturday, 
GLANCE ~ 

Today, 7 p.m. .~ ~ 7:05 p.m. 



