
The Bar Scene 
SMC Smoke-out 
Check out the all-purpose guide to drinking 
Students respond to Saint Mary's descision to 

Friday
and dancing around the nine 
join a growning trend and ban smoking inside 
hottest South Bend clubs. 
all campus buildings. 
SEPTEMBER15,
Scene . page 20 
News . page 7 
2000 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOi XXXJV NO. 18 HTTP:!/OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

A Golden Score. 
ND band director's music will open"'-the Olyl7}pic Games 

en the Olympic Games begin tonight in 
Sydnoy, Australia, Notre Dame band director Kenneth Dye will hold his brea:th. Ile will hear familiar sou?ds frr'.m,J•q~!e~ion as thr Olympic Band playll.J11s mus1citf coinpos1t10n for the Parade ofAthletes." 
"If il goes well. it will be a feeling of relief." said DyP, who also serves as band director for the Olympk Games. 
DyP romposed and taught his music to a band of 
2.000 young people of many nations for the opening ceremonies of the Games. His music consists of at least 36 pieces from the various countries of the band members and the athletes. 
"It's amazing how they picked up on it," said Dye, who taught the band by reviewing videotaped rehearsals. 
Language was never a barrier for Dye who said. "Music is the universal language." 
Two years ago, Dye started the project, which included 18 months of music composition. In order to research the musical styles and traditions from the many countries, Dye collaborated with New York University ethnomusicologist Barry Spanier. Dye said that in addition to his work with Spanier, 

story by 

he used the Internet "extensively" and called people who were eager to assist him. 
HELENA "Whenever you say the word Olympic, it has a uni­
PAYNE 

versal appeal," said Dye. After making more phone calls. Dye finally com­posed the music and had to go through the process 
. 

of obtaining approval by an Olympic committee. This included receiving approval for style, content and the score until the committee finally approved the ~ entire recording of the band piece. 
After the final approval, Dye said, "It was like fin­ishing a really big term paper or dissertation." ~ 
~;p~

Though Dye has taken new leadership with the 2000 Olympics. he has had prior Olympic Games CQ9 experience as the associate band director for the 1984 Olympic Band in Los Angeles. 
This year. however, will be more than a slight . rhange for Dye. "Ifs borderline overwhelming, but s·o far, so 
i
good." Dye said. photos by The 2000 Games will have live music for the first 1 
' 
PETER 

1
time in history and the band will play a 90-rninute 

RICHARDSON 
see OLYMPICS/page 4 


Computer upgrades move ND closer to Web registration 
no guarantee. registration. Software testing over the course of the next two per," Steinke said. 
By JASON MlFARLEY "We're trying to be preparf'd to began this week, with the analysis months, according to Steinke. Barring any setbacks, a group
News Writer 
have some usable form of regis­of systems in the University's VVhile the change to Web regis­of about 2,000 students, probably tration. hopefully online," said admissions departments. tration will requirn an upgrade of members of one University gradef•ollowing this week ·s preftmi­Don Steinke. assistant registrar. As ofThursday, no difficulties in the entire Notre Dame system, level, would be the first to test the n a ry round of t1•sting, thn And Notre Dame may be on upgruding the software had been experts plan to focus their efforts new system when they registerUniversity is now one step closer track to do so. following what reported. on testing software in the offices for spring semester courses. If all to having an lntrrm-t-based class Str.inke called the "crossing of an "That Itesting admissions soft­of the registrar. financial aid and goes well with this experimentalregistration system by November. 
initial hurdJp," in the implementa­ware] was a critical step in our student account._<; -departments group, officials expect to utilize oll1r-ials said Thursdav. 
tion process. bl'ing ab!A to move forward," said in which problems would dtllay the system for the course Thosl\ closAly connected with That hurdle comes in the form registrar Harold Pace. the process indefinitely. drop/add period in January 2001. 
llw projcn warnnd that imple­
of upgrading current University The next stage in the process "If any one of these Idepart­It would then be fully in place by 11w11 ting tlw new system by the software, a process officials said includes upgrading other ments! experiences problems, it next April, when students register Nov. 8 start of registration is slill is necrssary for ushrring in Web University drpartmrnts' software would certainly br a showstop-for the 2001 fall semester. 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, September 15, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Offering up op1n1ons 

Sports columnists have a tricky task -they arc: required to take up an issue, form an opin­ion and put it on paper for all to see. 
Good columnists have facL<; to back up their opinions; bad ones don'l. 
And wh11ther the column is good or bad, someone will always b1i offended. 
Recently. certain mem­bers of athletic teams have 
·express11d anger about the opinions 1\xprnssed by columnists in The Observer. 
Commenting on issues in the athletic community 


responsibly means analyz- Kerry Smith  
ing the performances of  
indivi<luab or teams as they  
occur. Good rolumnists  
know when to be positive  Sports Editor  
and when to be negative ­ 
thf'ir work id11allv should  
reneet a mix of both.  

The Observer exists to portray events in the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame communities l'ully and that means taking in the good with the bad. 
While reporters are <:barged with portraying 1wents as factually as possible, columnists are supposed to make a judgement. Sometimes those judgements run counter to the attitudes of the teams they analyze. 
The Observer is not a literary cheerleader for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's.·It is not the role of columnists to seek out only the positives of a tfmm while ignoring any criticism it deserves. If a c:olumnist did that. he or she would be turn­ing in shoddy work. 
ColumnisL'> are not supposed to be a morale leader and pump up the team with praising words: rathr.r, columnists are supposed to call it a.s they see it. 
The Observer has made an effort this year to imprnve athletic coveragr. on both the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. With the improved r,overage of all teams comes more att1mtion and scrutiny. 
No team or individual is privy to special treat­mcn t -be they Division I or Division Ill teams, recruited or non-scholarship athletes. 
Whetht~r they are competing for All-American honors or simply for the joy of athletic activity, a columnist's task remains the same. 
It is hypocritical to relish in the praises of a columnist when he or she portrays a team in a positive light only to complain when that same columnist highlighL'> that team's weakness. 
A c:olumnist's criticism is not a personal attack -it is merely his or her evaluation of an event and should be seen as suc:h by high-pro­tile and low-profile athletes alike. The purpose of a column is only to inform readers and add the spic:c of an opinion for interest. 
Existing in the dual role of student and columnist can be diflkult. The same person lhal at heart is cheering for their team to do well must also form an opinion of the team's skills and performance. Columnists work hard to separate those two fac:ets of working for a student newspaper. Just because a columnist happens to be a student, it does not mean his nr her role is as a team advocate or booster. 
Profossional columnists operate as outside obsNvers. and Observer columnists. although reporting on fellow students, work in the same fashion. They should not be held to a lower standard. 
The l'iems expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily lhose uf'lhe Obser1Jer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene K:ire Nagt:ngast Amanda Grecco Maribel Morey Graphics 
Tim Log:m Kaue Annis Sports Production Kevin Berchou Kerry Smith Viewpoint Kathleen O'Brien Par Kelley Lab Tech Angela Campos 

The Obmv,:r (USPS 59'! 2-4000) is publi,hcd Mund•)' rhwu~h frid•y c:-xt.:cp1 d11rln~ C1C.illll ,md v.ac.1,1011 periods. The: Ohsc:rvcr is .t member of die Assrn.:1.nr<l Prrss. AJI rcproduefion ri~1u ;uc rrscrved. 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Notre Dame helps Michigan State lose  Students crash golf cart into Huddle  
Sept. 19, 1994  Sept. 20, 1976  
This much is clear: Michigan State doesn't know how  Three Notre Dame students drove a golf cart into the  
t.o win.  llow else can you explain Notre Dame's 21-2  stairway outside the north entrance of the Huddle at  
win over the Spartans in a game where the Irish looked  11:20 pm on Sunday. Three male students were respon­ 
more giving 1.han Saint Nick? They failed to take advan­ sible for the extensive structural damage, but no physi­ 
tage of five Notre Dame turnovers and four on intercep­ cal injuries were reported. The golf c:art leveled the top  
tions by quarterback Ron Pow,lus. Michigan State  part of a two foot brick wall which runs besie the steps  
became Notre Dame's 16th road win.  and the students are expected to pay for the damages.  

OUTSIDE THE DOME Compiled from U-Wire reports 
MIT settles frat alcohol-related case for $6M 
BOSTON 
At least two members of every fra­
The Massachusetts Institute of ternity has been trained on the physi­Teehnology announced Wednesday ology of air.oho! use, emergency first that it will pay $6 million to settle a aid, CPR and liability and risk man­civil suit filed by the family of former agement. MIT officials said. More student Scutt Krueger, who died after than 455 other students have suffering from alcohol poisoning received instruction in how to serve almost three years ago. alcohol responsibly. 
Under the agreement, the Krueger living in an MIT fraternity shows that Peer and professional counseling family will use $1.25 to create new our approach to alcohol education programs were also extended in the scholarships for MIT students. The and policy, and our freshman housing wake of Krueger's death. payments will end all litigation sur­options, were inadequate. I am deeply MIT requires that hosts register on­rounding the ease, which began when sorry for this," he said campus parties wh.enever there will Krueger was found unr,onscious and Since the incident, MIT has institut­be drinking and follow adopted guide­lying in a pool of vomit at the Phi ed a series of changes to combat lines, inducting limitations on using Gamma Delta fraternity house. He binge drinking among its students. student group funds to purchase alco­died in a hospital three days later. When a new dorm is completed in hol. Third-party cash vendor services 
In a letter released Wednesday, 2002, all freshmen will be required to are required for gatherings larger MIT President Charles Vest apolo­live on campus. All fraternities and than 75 people. For smaller parties, gized for the death. sororities must now have a resident the hosL<; must designate akohol pur­
"The death of Scott as a freshman advisor. 

OKLAHOMA STATE UNIVERSITY 
Police seizes student's computer 
STILLWATER. Okla. 

A 19-year-old student at Oklahoma State had his computer confiscated by the university police earlier this week on suspicion of illegally distributing copy­righted material. Police were notified of the problem after the Recording Industry Association of America, an organization that protects copyrights of recording artists. notified OSU's Computer Information Services that one of their service users was running a Web site that was illegally distributing copyrighted songs. The OSU Police Department is currently pursuing the case as a violation of state law. OSU Police served the student with a search warrant around 5 p.m. on Sept. 5. The student's computer and related equip­ment were seized and are currently undergoing forensic exams. The results of the exams will deter­mine if charges will be filed against the student. Lt. David Altman of the OSU Police Department said if the crimes are confirmed the police have many options. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 

chasers and servers. 

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS 
School requires rape education 
CHAMPAIGN. Ill. 

Sexual assault is more likely to occur during a stu­dent's first semester on c:ampus. prompting the University of Illinois to require Campus Acquaintance Rape Education classes for freshmen. The average age of a sexual assault victim in college is 18 1/2, ac:cording to Debbie Murphy, coordinator of Sexual Assault Programs at the university. "It's primarily because they're new to campus," Murphy said. "People have a lot of new experi­ences. and they don't have a c:hance to think about the precautions." Chad Hinkle, a CAHE workshop facilitator and RA at Bromley Hall, said he has seen first-year stu­denl'> "put themselves in positions that more experienced studenl'> wouldn't do. The naivete level among first-year students is extremely high," he said. Doris Lawyer, a nurse practitioner at McKinley llealth Centnr, said the most important precautions for women to take are to go out in groups, stay in those groups and watch their drinks. "Date-rape drugs are realities here," she said. "Watch your drink all the time." 
5 Day Soulh Bmd Fon!CllS: 
!><ni'EBl:har 6:e::ast for ceytine arrliticns c«rl high taq:e,atures 
The AccuWeather<> forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 14. 
H L 

Friday ~59 45 Saturday 64 46
~ 

Sunday ~71 52 Monday ~ 75 55 
..,.-y-.......... ......,,.. 

C2000 AccuW.ather.lnc. COLD WARM STATIONARY
1--~---------------­
Prtttu1, 

® © D D D D D D
Tuesday ~ 72 52 
High Low Showe-rt Ralrt T•alorm¦ flurrle• Snow ,,. Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
v,..Aboc,ahfo'Prr,•• 
Atlanta 82 57 Las Vagas 103 74 Portland 76 55 Baltimore 73 57 Memphis 81 48 Sacramento 90 57

q_Q,~96.}.Q:r,~u 
Boston 68 60 Milwaukee 58 46 St. Louis 71 51
Showers T-smrms Ram Flwies Snow fee SU11ny Pl Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 63 46 New Yon< 72 60 Tampa 87 73
VII' Assoc,atad Press Groph/CIN,,t 
Houston 95 68 Philadelphia 72 58 Washington DC 74 59 
Friday, September 15, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOUTS BENEFITS 


College is an art and a science. Soon emmgh, you'll discover the proper course of study is figuring out the brave new world while expending as little effort as possible. Which brings us to the subject of CompuBank. 
CompuBank isn't just around the comer. It's right in your room. Right on your computer. You get free basic checking, free savings and access to free ATM net­works. You get a CompuBank check card to use any 
place Visa is accepted. 

ND priest, friend to Rudy passes away 
By KYLIE CARTER 
News Writer 
A Notre Dame graduate, former student manager and an inspiration to Hudy, Father Leonard Kuberski, recently 
passed away, but will not be forgot­t e n . Kuberski attended N o t r e D a m e 
f r o m 1960 to 1964, and later rnturned in 1976 to attain his master's degree in scripture. 
It was during this time that he came in contact with Daniel "Rudy" Huettiger, a graduate assistant to the football players. They met through a mutual friend, and Ruettiger told him his story. Kuberski was very interested and wrote a manuscript 
@ 

And, when you run out of money about every other week, your mom and dad can wire you more --free. 
Log on to www.CompuBank.com Click on Circle of Friends™ to learn how you can earn $40 for each friend you refer who opens and funds a CampuBank account. You can open an account right online and approval can happen within minutes. 
Have you ever tried swallowing a goldfish? 
about his life. 
"As we talked about the obstacles and the struggles," Ruettiger said, "Lenny [as he referred to him I wou Id get excited and write things down, and that inspired me." 
Although the manuscript Kuberski wrote did not end up being the actual script for the movie written by Angelo Pizzo, Kuberski played an instrumental role in the whole process. 
"Jf Lenny hadn't done the book, I wouldn't have moved forward to do the movie," Ruettiger said. "Ile helped


start something. The manu­script started the ball rolling. It was very positive, I thought, that he put it in that direction." 
As an acknowledgement of his contribution, Kuberski had a few lines in a class­room scene in the movie. 
In addition to his influential role in Ruettiger's life. he helped many others in his work with the football stu­dent manager program at Notre Damr.. Having been a student manager during his undergraduate studies, he knew that it was a lot of work and little glory. 
Wanting to give back to the program. he started the "Father Mad Dog Award." This scholarship award is given at the end of sopho­more year to the student manager with the most heart and best mental attitude. Kuberski was known to some as Father Mad Dog because of his fun personality. 
Dan Cooley, who graduated last spring from Notre Dame and received the award a few years ago, described Kuberski as "very fun. gener­ous and loyal." 
"He had a special place in his heart for the managers," he said. 
Each year, he would take the recipient out to dinner, along with the three head football managers. Cooley said, "He was the life of the dinner. He kept everyone laughing, or their mouths hanging open." 
"He was a great believer in Notre Dame -in the family," Ruettiger said. Kuberski passed away in mid-August from cancer. kidney failure and other ailments. 
The Father Mad Dog award will still be awarded, although not as a scholar­ship. 

EVERY 00: THOUSANDS OF KIDS BRING GUNS TO SCHOOL 
Fmd out how to get guns out or the hands ofchildren. 
1·S00•WE•PREVENT 
Not one more lost life. Nol on< more grieving family. Not one more, 
-'::,.­

mg ---­
iiiiE" 

Required readingfor anyone who knows akid. 
Ifrhere's achild you 01re abouc, anywhere in your life, then you should care about our public schools. For_a free booklet that contains ways you C3l1 help improve education in Ameen, call 1-800-96-PROMISE. 
Everything you don't like about your bank ... 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 15, 2000 
''Music is the universal language,, Kenneth Dye 
OlyIDpics 
continued from page l 
pieci> !'or tlw Parade of Athletes and the 10-minute opnning ren•rnonies music as opposed to only the l () minutes of opnning ceremonies music Dye dinwtnd in Los Angelps_ 
Dyn beliiwPs the Sydney Olympics have taken cvm1 morn of' an international perspective than the Los Angeles Olympir.s. 
1-:ven with the excitcnmnt ol' the Games, I>w said lw will remain in South Bcn<l where he will direct tlw Notrr' Danw band !'or the Purdue football game. 
"I'm oxpncting the band to do an outstanding job lwrn at home." said Dye. 
lie said lw expPcL-; band members tu be comrnit­tPd E>nough to attend all practices, rehearsals, and performances and hP ncedr-d to set that example b¥ attending them as well -even if he misses the opening cernmnnii>s nf' an athletic event that will likdy get morn attention and a larger crowd than any college football game. 
Dy(\ in his third ymtr at Notre Dame, is in his first y11ar as the band director. 
"It's going well, but I'm still learning," said Dye who has alrnadv witnessPd changes in the band's rnhnarsals and pnrformanccs along with the admit­tancn of' Lhe lirsL t'P-male in the Irish Guard. 
According to Dye, although the Olympic band is not his most frpquenl topic of' conversation, he has received support. especially at the campus post office where he was a regular customer. 
"They sen me coming." Dye said laughing. 

At the post o11ice he mailed music back and forth to many countries. some of which, Dye said, required the workers to check the names because there wern so many little known countries that sent 
him mail. he said he is "still learning" as a director. However, Dye, now finished with his post office . trips will be able to watch the television tonight. see 
photo by 
his "really big term paper" come to life and possi­bly breathr, a sigh of relief. PETER RICHARDSON 

Visiting scholars discuss political unrest in Colu01bia 
By KI FLIN TURNER 
News Writer 
Columbia is on the brink of an open war, said visiting scholar Eduardo Pizarro, a noted politi­cal scientist. writer, and public intellectual, Ile began Thursday's current afliars parnd discussion -entitled "Guns. Drugs, and \1oney: The Politics of Foreign /\id and Domestic Peace in Columbia" -on the ris­ing internal conl'licts in Columbia. 
Alvaro Camacho and Nora Segura join Pizarro as visiting scholars who are a part of the larger Columbia Project that seeks solutions to reform the torn nation. 
Much of the conflict is due to the institution of insurgent Hovolutionary Armed Forces of Columbia fFAHC) who receive 
economic support from ransom, kidnapping and by taxing the 
coca leaves within the regions that the, control. ''On the one hand in tlw proc11ss of production, Icocaine I 
finances FARK, which has a sys­tem of taxation on the peasant. On the other hand. cocaine finances the paramilitary," said Pizarro. 
With 80 percent of cocaine coming from Columbia and with 25,000 to 30.000 people in para­militaries. or armed militias, an internal collapse of the country is underway, said Pizarro. 
"I would like to make one point clear, and the premise is that Columbia has to eradicate nar­cotics and it has to eradicate war," Pizarro said. 
The undeclared war in Columbia has increased the rates of homicides and impaired the country's human rights. Pizarro went on to say that this war "has had an effect on the political system in terms of 
.--------------.;;;;-;;;....;·:...:-:;;;-;.., 
TLF ENTERPRISES 
U d I t d k 
se ap ops, es tops, and upgrades 
288-0190 

Pizza, Beverages 219-233-1000 
reducing the power of political parties." 
With a weakened political sys­tem, and the substantial role of paramilitaries, Pizarro cited this inherent instability as a "vicious circle" in which the Colombian people find themselves trapped. 
"We don't have an alternative plan we have a fund, which is less that that which has been offered to Bolivia," said Pizarro. 
One possible step towards the direction of reform is to provide "property rights to peasants so as to provide them with stability and security," said Pizarro. 
By enabling the people to take back possession of their land, it would debilitate the power of the paramilitary and eventually reduce the subjugation of the people to a binding obligation to produce massive amounts of cocaine. 

"It has to come from a negotia­tion process," said Pizarro. The Colombian government must find a way to overtake the para­militaries by strengthening their own armies. 
After amending its own inter­nal strife, said Pizarro, Columbia needs to repair its international relations as well. 
"Columbia has to open a way with the European community to acquire a new way of looking at [the situation]," and to open the door for diplomacy, Columbia has to improve its record of human rights in order to gain respect, said Pizarro. 
Alvaro Camacho, a noted soci­ologist in Columbia cites colo­nization as the "ghost of Latin America." that is to say. a resur­gence of violence. Pointing to the effects of hyper-violence and hyper-inflation on the country and on the rule of law, Camacho said that "Latin America has become the most violent macro­region in the world." 
Camacho points to Columbia's instable economies and institu­tions as reasons why the vio­lence rate has increased from 17 to 34 homicides per 4,000 inhab­itanl-;_ 
Through humanitarian inter­vention and the continuation of negotiating the peace process with the paramilitary, Columbia can begin to break down internal and international barriers. 'The best war is the one that is won without a single bullet," said Camacho. 



Friday, September 15, 2000 COMPILED FH0:\1 THE OBSEHVEH WIHE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS UNITED KINGDOM 
U.S. tries to revive Mideast peacetalks: Thi~ Clinton administration renewed its 
Truckers end some gas protests
rlTorts Thursday to end a deadlock between 
lsranl and thP Pal!•stinians over the future of Jnrusalem. 1langing in the balance was a long­sought setLlemenL of their half-century dispute. "This is th1' most clrlil'ate subject." Albright said as hPr senior aide, Dennis Hoss. was meeting with PalPstinian 1wgotiators and befon~ her own dinn<'r nwl'ting with tlw Jsraflli f.oreign Minister Shlomo Bl'n-/\mi. 
Iraq says Kuwait is stealing oil: Iraq ,uTused Kuwait on Thursday of digging wells that allow it to stnal Iraqi oil and warned that it will takl' proper 1rn~asures to stop the actions. "Tlw ru!Prs of Kuwait havP been. in the past f'nw yrars. digging oil Wfllls aimed at bleeding rPsPrves in the bord1\r arna," the oflkial Iraqi Nnvs /\gPncy quot1"d Oil Minister Amrr :'vlohamnwd Hashid as saying. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Calif. fires keep growing: A wildfire at VandenbPrg /\ir Force Basn that forced rvarua­tion s in a 1warby town grc'vv to more than 
11.000 a<>rPs Thursday. thr largest nf several blazPs in Southern California. Anothnr firn that di•stroyPd two honws in tho Agua Dulce area of tlw Angnlns National Fornst was 90 percent rontainPd. fire officials said. "We're working on g1\tting a complctn. solid [bull !dozer line around llw lirP... said Inspnctor Roland Sprewell of the Los i\ngdPs County Fin' Department. 
BIC recalls lighters: /\ New Jersey compa­ny is recalling about 294,000 disposable ciga­rntLc lighters because they lack required child­rnsistant mrchanisms. The disposable lighters bi>ing n~called arc oval-shapfld "BIC" and mini­"BIC" brand lighters. They have a green. red, blur.. black or yellow body and a metal top. The standard size lighters have the UPC number 3 08h120 (>()0020. The mini-lighters have the UPC numbPr 3 086120 600051. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Pastor sentenced in church theft: A former pastor accused of gambling away thou­sands of dollars stolen from his small Baptist church was sentenced to four years in jail. Bryan Litton. 24. pleaded guilty to four counts of theft by deception for forging thousands of dollars worth of' checks drawn on the church's account. I le also was ordered to pay restitution, dnputy Floyd County prosecutor Matthew McGoVfml said. lnVfistigators are still tabulating the value of the forg<'d checks. he said. 
Market Watch 9/14 

Dow 
11,182.18 -51.05 

]ONES 
CompositeUp: Same: Volume:

1.243 500 1,287,308,410 
AMEX: 963.55 -6.86 Nasdaq: 389.3.89 +44.38 NYSE: 675.2:?, "0.62 
S&P 500: I484.9f' +2.92 
• 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE t:ONEXANl WS (CNXT) t41.')8 + lo. 5575 '52.(,2 INTEL CORI' il:-JTC) -2J1C• .l.(,,lOO "i9.62 CISCO WSTE,\IS (CSCOJ 10 · ()(,25 (,1.25 MICROSOFT CORI' (,\ISFT) .; '\B -2.4400 65.81 ORACLE CORP CORCLl d.82 +-J.127~ 84.94 

CONGO 
Militia massa·cres 99 Rwandan troops 
Associated Press 
LONDON 

Britain's fuel crisis eased Thursday,L., several blockades ended at refiner­ies and depots. but other protests con­tinued -and onr, abruptly restarted after demonstrators learned that an oil company had raisr,d its prices. 
The protesters won that round. as Esso quickly rescinded the increases. 
"Not all the protests are over. There's some way to go," Prime Minister Tonv Blair said. "It will be days beforr, regular supplies get back to normal. even if' the protests finish today." 
As some protesters declared a moral victory and went homn. others refused to budge. Some returned to the scenes of abandoned blockades, hoping to stop the tankers again. 
Military tankers were pressed into service to help relieve the backlog, but at best. industrv oflicials said it will take weeks to get supplies fully back to normal. 
Elsewhere in Europe, there were also signs of an easing of the protests. In Belgium, protesting truck drivers agreed Thursday to lift the blockade of highways. fuel depots and city street,; that has caused tratlic chaos for five days. 
Serge Adriaens. president of the most radical union leading the protests. said his men would remove their roadblocks at midnight, despite the government's refusal to bow to their demand for lower fuel taxes. 
However, Adriaen 's UPTR union refused to join other truckers' organi­zations in signing an $85 million com­pensation package and said its cam­paign for tax cuts would continue. 
The signs of an end to the truckers' stranglehold on Belgium's road traffic came after Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt gave a televised address vowing not to give in to demands for lower fuel taxes. 
"The government will not tolerate that a minority of truckers exposes our country, our people, our economy and our industry to further damage," Verhofstadt said. 
In London, Blair promised to listen to protesters, but offered no conces­sions on the taxes that havfl madfl British fuel prices the highest in Europe. British truckers paid an aver­age $4. 33 a gallon for diesel last month. compared to $2.63 in Belgium, according to the Automobile Association. 
"However much people may dislike paying petrol duty. there's no way that any government of this country could or should yield to this form of protest," 
AFP Photo A Belgian trucker takes up a collection for "his expensive fuel" at a blockade protesting high gas prices and asking for government aid. 
Blair told his third nationally televised news conference in as many days. 
Rejecting claims of a sales tax wind­fall because of rising world oil prices. Blair said the extra revenue would not be enough to cut fuel taxes by even a cent. 
Still. public opinion polls suggest many Britons blame Blair for the protests, A poll commissioned by the BBC and taken on Tuesday suggested that nearly 80 percent of those sur­veyed supported the demonstrators and 90 percent wanted cuts in the fuel tax. 
The first protest to end in Britain was at Stanlow in northwestern England, where the loosely organized coalition of truckers and farmers began the campaign a week ago. 
"We have backed down." said Brynle Williams, spokesman for pro­testers at the Stanlow refinery in northwest England. "We have won a moral victory." 
Pickets quickly left nearly a dozen other sites. 
The men blocking the Coryton Oil Refinery northeast of London had voted to stop. but changed their minds after learning of Esso's decision to raise prices. Esso, facing criticism from Blair and others. backed down within hours. 
Associated Press 
KINSHASA 

/\ pro-government militia said Thursday that it had killed nearly 100 Hwandan soldiers and six white mercenaries in eastern Congo. 
The claim from the Mai-Mai militia came a day after a rebel leader dedared an offensive on the militia, after the \fai-Mai group killed 15 civilians in eastern Congo. 
A statement from Mai-Mai leader Gen. Padiri Kalendo. read on state television. said his forces killed 93 Rwandans and six mercenaries in the village of Nyanga Walikale. about 60 miles east of the eastern Congolese city of Goma. 
The fighting occurred Sept. 4-8, after Rwandan soldiers attacked a Mai-Mai stronghold in an attempt to capture Kalendo. 
The statement said hundreds of Congolese civilians were injured dur­ing the fighting and that 41 fleeing civilians V1erc killed by Rwandan sol­diers in the nearby village of Malembe. 
The Mai-Mai have been fighting in eastern Congo since 1960, when Congo achieved independence from Belgium. They are known for their belief in magical charms that they feel protect them in battle. They have become an increasingly potent force in that part of the country dur­ing the two-year civil war to unseat President Laurent Kabila. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, Seprember 15, 2000 
Scholarship dinner honors Andrews 
By KYLIE CARTER 
New, Writer 
The Notre Dame communitv came together Thursday night in McKenna llall tu celebrate the 20th annivcrsairy of the Andrews Scholarship. 
The Andrews scholarship was established in 1981 by Kathleen Andrews and John McMecl in honor of Jim Andrews, who passed away in 
1980.  Jim  Andrews  was  
Kathleen's  husband  and  
McMeel's  
business part­ 


or people all over the United 
Statlois. 

The Andrews scholarship helps smaller Notre Dame Alumni Organizations pay for the $1,700 scholarship given to students who participate in Summer Service Projects. Last summer, 77 students received thf' $800 Andrews scholarship and the associations con­tributed the remaining $900. 
Charles Lennon, executive director and assistant vice president of the Alumni Association cnthusiatically praised the scholarship 
rwr. and all
"ft 's a beautiful ripple
The 1wening those who
.effect going on, and you
started off have partic­with a video are that stone that was ipated in prcsl'ntation the Summer
thrown into the water.··
of' the Service Andrews Project pro­scholarship Kathleen Andrews gram. 
and Summer wife of Jim Andrews, McMeel • ServicP spoke on
scholarship namesake
Projcr.ts, pro­duced by Father Steve Gibson. After dinner, Hichard Conklin, associate vice presi­dent for University relations, spoke of his friend's passing and how thn scholarship camr. into being. McMeel told Conklin that they should set up a scholarship in Andrews' name. 
"ll has to be something unique," McMeel said to 
Conklin. "It has to  be  Jim  
Andrews."  
During  that  timr.,  the  

Summer Service Project pro­gram was just getting started. and there were only five stu­dents. They decided that this would be the perfect direction for the scholarship, and since then. over 2.500 students have participated in the program, helping out tens or thousands 

the impor­tance or the 
program. 
"When you go to the gate and Saint Peter asks you that one question ... Jim Andrews would have been waived straight through -and you !referring to the Summer Service Project participants] would be too. Because I think that the question would be 'What have you done for the least of mine?' I think that's the most important question. And you've done a hell or a lot," he said. 
Kathleen Andrews spoke last, and thanked the students for their volunteer work. "In the long pull ... let me tell you that you have enriched this entire campus. It's a beautiful ripple effect going on. and you are that stone that was thrown into the water," she said. 

10% discount for students, faculty and staff with ND photo I.D. 
The Cu...-..·tle ofFlags © 
GO IRIS.HJ!!1 
FLAGS INT.ERNATIONAL® 
10845 McKinley Hjghway Osceola, Indiana 46561 Telephone: 219-674-51.25 Visit us on the web at www.flagsl.net 
Widest selection of Notre Dame flags, banners, and related ite01s in the country. 
Jim Boiinger, '84 -Proprietor 
Over 70 varieties of U.S. flags, states and U.S. territories; international flags from around the world. 

Support The College Fund. Call 1-800-331-UNCF. The College l'uDdAJNCFmg A. ....11.~--.-­oi \~ }..I .. ' ' ' . ....... . : !;:., • .,. •. , • . '..i'f;, 1·" ' .. '",-~ I ·:;.lM... , '•,• ...~I,.. ::,;::,,~· f r. :·" I  It's aconnectedworld. Do yourshare. Fot 30ways 111 belp thetmllmmcnl, ­3100~.N\11' ~~i&xis. -~·­m EarthShare.  ¦ ¦ New Meetings for Students and Young Adults. RECOVERY 312 Lafortune Student Center Mondays7PM  


Friday, ::iepcember 15, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
SMC students adjust 
Book examines codes of conduct 

www.hewitt.com 
Redi$cover teamwork. 
(It's how we work best.)
Never underestimate th~ 
Make a difference. 
(It's what we do better than anyone else.)

Jmportance of people. 
When your business is focused entirely on people, you do things a little differently. At Hewitt Associates LLC, we offer career advantages that few can match. No wonder more than two-thirds of the FORTUNE 500 count on us to design and deliver the best solutions for their human resource challenges. 
Academic backgrounds that have traditionally been successful in our organization include: 
• 
Accounting • Finance 

• 
Actuarial Science • Math 


• 
Computer Science • Management Information Systems(MIS) 

• 
Economics • Statistics 



To learn more about He"\\itt Associates or to apply online, visit the Opportunities section rmder Careers at www.hewitt.com 
Business Career Forum-September 21 & 22 Mu Alpha Theta Presentation -October 11 
Information Session -October 3 0 

Interviews -October 31 (Notre Dame students, pl~e submit reswnes online through Career Services by October 9th. SL Mary's students, please contact your Career Services office.) 

to indoor S1Doking ban 
I.fr KATIE MILLER 
'-lcws Wrncr 
Saint \larv's sm()kc-rs liavt' IWPJl bani;hPd f'rom th()ir dorms this y(Htr wlrnn thny !'(•(•I tlw Jl!'Pd to light up. 
.\!though tlw 11)99-2000 studPnt handbook "1wrrnittnd smoking in·student rooms I\\ith l ransoms and rl oor l'ios(•d I. if it is agrPPd by all roommaLPs" a11d in vPn<ling ar11a.s. thP ~000-2001 hand­book bans smoking indoors. 
"Wn an• 011(1 of tlw hL..;t insti­tutions t11 irnpi1•1111·11t this type of' snrnki'ng poliry So man~' havn gonP to nonsmoking ds('VI lwn•. Smokers probably t!rnught il \\'as 1lnlv n mnW'r of' tinw bPl'or(' W() alt,,n•d tlw polir:." said C:ril!Pg1· Pn\si<lPnL Marilou Fld1·Pd 
Stud1,nb wn!' involv1\d in tlw rn'ation of' tlw IH'W policy. 
"Tlw sludPnts who rhosP to gPt invi>lvNI with hPalth sPr­vic!'s last yPar lwlwn th1• ll<'W s111o~ing p1dicy \\'as b1•ing m,LdPI lwl1wd makP tlw !1nal d1•(·ision," said Sara Scalzo. din•rtor of' LP :vlans I !all. 
l'ndPr tlw old polir-.y. many n11nsn10kPrs 1·omplai1wcl 111· outsidP smokP P!l[('ring tlwir 1·00lllS. 
"It was hard !'or nonsmok­t•rs ,vlwn smokr' would trnvPI lwt\\'PPn rooms. I think tlw 11('\\' policy is bntt<'r fi>r PVPr)­onr·," said junio1· E1·in llob1•rts. 
"As a nonsn10k1•r. I am vt•ry happy aboul tlw 1ww policy. I hav(' LP1Tibll' all(•rgi(•s. and 
my brnatlling su!Ternd from 
ou !sid r~  smoke 1m le ring my  
room.··  said  junior  K<'lly  
Koslow.  

Sorrw studl!nts sen tlw new policy as a vio!rrtinn or their rights. 
"I think it's ridiculous to takn awa:,· thP rights you have as an adult,"·said ,iunior Carri<: Cuellar. 
Many studPnts agnw smok­nrs should havn an indoor placn to smokP. 
"If' you·rCT going to accom­modatP nonsmok0rs, smokPrs should be accommodatnd_as wdl." said Cuollar. 
"l support thP polir.y. but I can undnrstand how smokers arc annoyed that they must lnavP the: building in order to smoke," said _junior Julia 1:lctcher. 
Both I:ldrnd and Scalzo havP found studcrnts to be VCTry coopcrativ1-1 with the 1rnw policy 
"l!vPrv time a studPnt smokes too dose to the build­ing. I ask thl'm Lo mov(:. and th<'v always do." sairl Srnlzo. 
B1\caus1' of' thP increase: in outdoor smoking. thPrn am ronn\rns about thr amount of smokPrs not using the smok­ing n1(·nptadPs. 
"Saint Mary's is littered with cigan·tlP butts," said Cuellar. 
"I rPally enrnuragP smokers to use rnc1!ptades. Debris is not part of' tho imago Saint Mary's wants to prcsC'nt, Pspncially when prospectivo studPnts am visiting." said Hldrnd. 
Special to The Oh,erYer 
A 111iw book coauthornd by OlivCTr Williams. C.S.C.. aradn­mic director of the University of Notre Dame's Center !'or Ethics and Rf'ligious Values in Business, analvzrs h o w lessons learn rd l'rom the Sullivan PrinciplPs may be used to develop worldwide codes of r,ondur,t in today's business environmPnt. 
Titled "Er.onomic Imperatives and Ethical Values in Global Businr1ss: Thr. South African Experience and International f.odr,s Today." the book sug­gests solutions to many ol' the vexing issues faring large multinational corporations, including human rights. living and working ronditions of workers, environmental pro­tection, sustainable growth, and presPrvation or biodiversi­ty. 
The foundation of the 448­page book is the Sullivan Principles, a code of conduct r,reated in 1977 by civil rights leader Father Leon Sullivan for 
U.S. companies operating in South Africa. The set of six principles called for corpora­tions to, among other things, eliminate all types of discrimi­nation between white and black workers, rer,ognize black unions, and provide help to blar,k communities with educ:a-


lion, health carP and other social-support activities. 
"From its modest begin­nings," the authors writr., "the Sullivan Principles program mushrnomed into one of major national and international importance, and ber.ame a lightning rod in ar.celerating the process of sociopolitical change in South Africa," culmi­nating in the end of apartheid in April 1994. Sullivan has received numerous honors for his lifolong struggle against racial prejudkc and er,onomir, injustice. including the 1999 Notre Dame Award for human­itarian service. 
Williams and his coauthor, S. Prakash Sethi, University Distinguished Professor at Baruch College. the City University of New York, bring to their analysis a combined experience of more than 15 years working with business corporations, non-governmen­tal organizations, and other segments of the anti-apartheid movement in South Africa dur­ing the formulation and imple­m en tati on of the Sullivan Principles. They also have engaged in extensive research. teaching and consultation on various aspects of business ethir,s and global codes of con­duct. 
Williams is an expert on er,o­nomic and political issues in South Afrir,a and specializes in understanding how the ethics of virtue might inform the ethi­cal conduct of managers. He facilitated a landmark 1991 meeting at Notre Dame between U.S. corporate and government officials and lead­ers of the African National 
Congress. the lnkatha Freedom Party and the Pan-Africanist Congress. Ile currently serves as chair of the U.S. board of thP-United States-South African Leadership Devolopment Program. 
Williams, an assor.iate pro­fessor or management, is a f'ar,­ulty fellow in NotrP Dame's Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies and was an assodate provost at the University l'rorn 1987-94. He has been listed among the out­standing faculty in Business Week's ratings of MBA pro­grams and in 1994 won the University's Reinhold Niebuhr Award, prnsentod to far,ulty whose life and teachings "pro­mote or exemplify the theologi­cal and philosophical concerns of Niebuhr." 
The author or editor of 13 previous books, Williams earned his doctoratr. from Vanderbilt University and his bachelor's and master's dcgrP-es from Notre Dame. Hr, was ordained a priest in the Congregation of Holy Cross in 
1970. 
The Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Notre Dame's Mendoza College of Business seeks to strengthen the Judeo-Christian ethical foundation in business and public policy decisions by fos­tering dialogue among acade­mic and corporate leaders. as well as by research and publi­cations. The center also helps r,oordinate and integrate the teaching of ethics throughout the college's business r,urricu­lum, which Business Week rates as the best in higher edu­r,ation. 
page 8 The ObJerver . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, Septemeber 15, 2000 







Vince Bernardin  Joe Fagan  Jim Gallagher  Greg Haake  
Evansville, Ind.  South Boston, Mass.  South Bend, Ind.  Kansas City, Kan.  
Moreau Seminary  Moreau Seminary  Moreau Seminary  Moreau Seminary  
ND '01  Stonehill College, '89  ND'98  ND '99  

The Congregation of Holy Cross Welcomes its Newest Seminarians 
"We wished to abandon all to follow Christ." 
Matt Biergans Constitutions ofthe Congregation ofHoly Cross, 1.8 David Halm 
Grand Ledge, Mich. Clyde, Ohio Moreau Seminary Old CollegeND '97 ND'04 


Brian Carpenter 
Rochester, NY Moreau Seminary ND'98 

Steve Davidson 
Oak Lawn, Ill. Old College ND'03 

JeffDrocco 
Cupertino, Calif Old College ND'04 




www.nd.edu/ -vocation 
ANSWER :-W THECALL'<!::I 

Tom Hofmann 
Coon Rapids, Minn. Old College ND '04 

Stephen Koeth 
Staten Island, NY Moreau Seminary ND'99 

Matt Kutz 
Rolla, Mo. Moreau Seminary ND'99 









David Esch  Aaron Michka  Tim O'Malley  Joey Pietrangelo  Matt Vereecke  Pete McCormick  
South Bend, Ind.  Houston, Tex.  Marysville, Tenn.  Germantown, Tenn.  Walker, Mich.  Grand Rapids, Mich.  
Old College  Old College  Old College  Moreau Seminary  Old College  Moreau Seminary 
ND'03  ND'04  ND '04  ND '98 ACE '00  ND '04  Grand Valley State '00  

Friday, September 15, 2000 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Rodriguez· explores traditions 
• Chicana 2000 speaker focuses on 'Day of the Dead' 
By KRISTIN \'v'YNKOOP New, Writer 
Illuminalud by tlw soft light of a rnndli1. the small altar in Saint Mary's Stapleton Lounge was cluttnrod with pictures of skole­lo ns, a photograph of a dPceas(1d grandmotlwr. an old praynr book and a skull. 
Father Arturo l'Erez BodriguPz, an administrator at two Chicago churchPs and instructor at tlw Catholic Tlwological Union, spokn about "Tl](' Day of' thP Dnacl" Thursday, 
Tlw li:;:tun• was the S()COlld in a sPriPs of four chosen for tlw tlwnw of Jubilee Time: Chicana 2000 prnsnnti•d hy Lhn Cnnler l'or Spirituality at Saint Mary's. 
El Dia clP los MuPrtos. or ratlwr lhP Day of the Dnac.l. is not a morbid and grinf-fillnd day for its participants. according to Hodriguz. 
"So111P would sav MPxicans Pnjoy a good p,trty." said HodriguPz. "Tlw Day ol' lht> I>Pad is a part of that." 
Tlw n>IPIJJ'ation 0('curs annu­ally in conjunction with All Souls ctdPbrations in th(i Catholic Church, but the day plays a special role for Mexicans as a personal celebration among families. When a person dies, the family celobrates his entrance to eternal life for the nine days preceding the funeral. 
Communal prayer, skeletal symbols and food in the shape of human forms are all impor­tant aspects of the celebration. 
"Candy skulls are often bought with the name of the dead on them. Skulls mimic us, changing as new influences emerge. Rodriguez shared a story that hit much closer to home, but still embraces the traditional celebratory aspects. 
Liturgy teams from a parish on the southwest side of Chicago recently decided to go out into their community and offer the Day of the Dead cele­bration to the gangs that had entered the area. The gang members took part in the activi­ties of the celebration after one 
and remind us of who we will 

be one day," "Every culture must 
said Rodriguez. learn to live with death. " Images of death are not 
Arturo Perez Rodriguez 
dreaded by tlrn 

Mexican culture instructor b<\cause death Catholic Theological Union is considnred an inevilab!P 
of their members was killed. 
" T h e y taught them how to put together an altar, what should be inc\mlod on 

SMC freshman tickets 
promote platforms 
By AMY GREENE 
News Writer 
Just a month after meeting 
roommates and finding their 
classrooms, Saint Mary's 
freshmen are preparing for 
elections Monday. 
There are seven tickets 
running for presidential and 
vice presidential spots which 
is, "quite a response." said 
Stephanie Pace, elections 
commissioner. "The girls 
seem very enthusiastic and 
energetic about the whole 
election process and have 
been actively campaigning." 
The seven presidential have a variety of plans for improving class unity and Saint Mary's spirit. 
. 
Jamie Belcher and Kacey Starzyk are focusing on Saint Mary's pride and pep rallies 

. 
Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl and Annie Monoscalo plan a class shopping trip to Chicago and a freshman pajama party. 

. 
Jessica Kendrick and Emily Agness are promoting athletic boosters and movie nights 

. 
Desiree Paulin and Carrie Freeman plan to have class cookouts and Secret Santas. 

. 
Michelle Twomey and Sarah Tynan hopP to extend dining hall hours and increase Notre Dame-related activities. 

. 
Abby Van Vlerah and Megan Olive would like to plan a father/daughter dance and establish more 


class unity. 
. Zoe Zelany and Madonna Weck hope to organize a "Big Brother" program with Notre Dame and freshman masses and picnics. 
With sAven tickets run­
ning. a run-off election is 
almost inevitable. One ticket 
needs to receivP at least 50 
percent of the vote to avoid a 
runoff. Pace said it is unlike­
ly a ticket will receive more 
than 50 percent of the vote. 
In the event of a run-off 
the two top presidential and 
vice presidential tickets will 
have a "Meet the 
Candidates" night Tuesday. 
This will be an open forum 
with questions from Pace 
and then questions from the 
entire class. 
The run-off election will follow on Wednesday. In addition to the women run­ning for president and vice president there are also seven tickets to 1111 13 spots on Freshmen Class Board. 
Board candidates include: Jillian Bernas, Becca Doll, Erika Kozlowski, Sarah Mahoney. and Jenny McGraw, Sarah McSJ1erry and Lizzie Siefert. 
The remaining board posi­tions will be filled according­ly when a president and vice president arc elected. 
"It is up to the president and vice president to 1111 the remaining spots. Typically interviews have been con­ducted in the past, but it's up to the president and vice president to ultimately decide." said Pace. 
reward l'or life. 

"Every culturn must learn to live with death. Death is not only to be expncted, but to be embraced. It is to wake up from this dream called life," said Rodriguez. 
The Day of the DPacl is prac­ticml by many othor individuals who simply appreciate its 1mlightuning view about a topic that is uncomfortable to many. 
Whilo the Day of the Dead dons have strong historical and cultural roots. it is constantly it, and what it meant to their culture. Tlrny were not judged and condemrn:1d. but rather invited to be a part of the cele­bration of dnath and to respect it." said Rodriguez. 
Rodriguez believes the cere­mony is not just for tradition's sake, but provides a working solution for dealing with death. 
"It is so imporlant because it challenges contemporary views on. death." said Rodriguez. "Death is but one more way to celebrate life." 


Celebrate America Recycles Day 011 Jovember lath, It would me11n the world to a.II of us. Por a. free brochure, pleaae call l-80O-CALL·EDF or v1s1t our web site at www.edf.org 
® 

rm &EPA ia==~-ro~-·. 
Welcome Notre Dame & Scint Marys Students 
~~ . 
'(J,f-7,-25()-1444 
SPECIALIZING IN ITALIAN CUISINZ Southern Italian Cooking at Its Finest Prepared by Francesco and Family A:) Authentic Taste of Italy Most Romantic Plac£ in South Bend and Mishawaka 
Hours: 
12; ~ Li,ican•.ia_v West 

Mon.-Sat. 5:00-10:00 ;) .m. 
M2sh.a-waka

Sun. Closn! 
(Francesco was a chefat ND for 30 year.,) 
Ba1u1uet rooms available 

Congress schedules hearings to investigate tire case 
A,.sm:ia t ed Press 
\\/\SI llM;T<>N 
Ol'lfrial~ l'rom 1:orcl l\lotor Co. 
1u1d BridgPstonP/hrPslorw WPrt· 
invitr'd on Thursdav to rnturn to 
Capitol l !ill for a111,.tlwr round 111' 
qw•stioning on th(• Fin•stmw tin• 
ri-rall. 
I\Pp. llilly Tauzin. II-La.. dmir­m n n of ttw llousP Comnwn•p Comrnii°IP(•·s Subcommittn1· on C1,11su11wr l'rnt1•t·tion. will hold two lwarings 1111 tlw cas1• rwxt Thurscla~•. said his spokPsman. 
KPn .loilnson . 
. \ ll ,L rtI' r 11 tJ ll ll hI' a r j 11 g W j 11 f'cwus on h•gislation that altPmpts III irn prov,• 1·I111su1111•r prot1•1·lion tlm,ugh 1!11• .''\ati11nal llighwa~• lrallir Sal't•!\' :\dministralion. tliP f'Prl1·ral agPn1·~· r1'sp1lnsib!P fo1· tlw l-'in•sl!J11l' case. 
In tlw morni.ng. a joint !waring ,1i1h thP Subcornmitl<'f' on Owrsrght and lnyPstigalions will forns 1111 tin• tPsts 1'1l1Hlurtr•cl by llll' two cornpanit>s and Ll11• ('Olll­pa11 iPs' dilTPring tirl' pn•sstirP rt>c111111111•1Hlali1111.s. 
So11w ha\'\' quPstiorwcl wlwtlwr 1-'iJl'd's J'l'C'Ol1111li•Jl(l1•d (ll'f'SSlll'I' or 2(, poL111ds JJl'r square• inl'h (psil !'or lhP lin·s on its t•:xplon•rs <'allsPd s11nw or ttw ac1·iclt>nls linkl'd to snirPS or (IPalhs. llridgPst11np/Firc>st111w rPcom­nwnds pn•ssurP ot':rn psi. 

Ford has r1~jP1·tpcf tlw thnory, saying llw c;oodyPar lin•s usPd 1m the lixplor·l'r at :u, psi havP 1111t 1!XJJPri,•111·nd th<' sanw prob­!Pms 
Tlw National Iligh way Traf'lic Saf'Ptv :\dminislralion has said it is in~1Pstigating 88 dPaths and mon· than ~;iO injuriPs ov1·r t111, past d1•rndl' invnlving Firc•slo1w 
tin·s. Tlw \\',Lil Stn~Pt Journal BridgPstonn/Fin:stonn and indl'­rcqiorlnd Thursday that fivn pc'!ldPnl tire nxpnrls to discuss 1111,n• dPaths hm·p 01Tu1T1•cl sinrt' tin• testing r<1sults that hav1· tlw rnrall of 6.5 million ATX. been turiH'd ovl'r to congres­;\TX-II and V\'ildrrnnss l\T tires sional invnstigators. was annourH'f'd Aug. '). NIITSJ\ "Franklv. most of' tho lnst said it would updat11 its figurns rrisults arn.tnrhnif'.a! and <W<'ll if' Monday. thPre was a smoking gun in 
.Johnson 1,aid the hearing will Lhrw W<' might not br able to f1•atur<' of'l'icials from thP snr. tlw smok<' without thn bPn­NIITS.\. Ford and efit of nxpcrl analysis." lw said. 
::--·, 
' 
'.'\:, ' ·~· 
' ~;~ 
~i:: . 

SPnatc ComnwrcP CommittnP Chairman .John McCain, H-i\riz.. is holding a htoaring 011 Wndnnsday to diifruss l!!gislalion that hn plans to inlroduc() in llw Senate. 
.Johnson said tlrn Ilous!' and S<\natii l<'adrrs of' the investiga­tion arc wordinating to mov1• a bill lo tlrn prnsid('nt's dnsk bnf'orn Congress adjourns rwxt month. That would lw an improssivP !'Pat, as a 1-rowdnd li\gislatiw agrnda is rnmpPting for tlrn lawmakers· tinw. 
"Congrnss is mad and tlw i\ml'rican public is dPmanding action," .Johnson said. "Any spnrial intPrnsts that try lo short-circuit this lngislation will gel s!t1amro!IPd. WP'rp going to pass a bill this YPar." 

Bragging rights. 
Tho Collegiate Olympic Mcclaf Raco 1s on! Follow the tally with tho GE Collc•go rv1c-dal Tracket", oniy on N_BCOlympics.com. 
"May the Blessed Mother bless this  "This CD reaches out IQ ND friends,  "You have much to be proud of in this  
work and all who enjoy it. "  family, and.fans ofall ages."  musical endeavor."  
Fr. Ted Hesburgh, C.S.C.  Jin1 O'Connor  Fr. Mark Poorman, C.S.C.  
Notre Dame President Emeritus  Manager, Hammes ND Bookstore  Vice President for Student Affairs  
A NOTRE DA~'IE  
EXPERIENCE  
"I am an ND parent and havejust  
·· This one should he a hig hit  returnedf,·om seeh1g my fl.vo sons  
w;th the ND crowd du6ng the  get settledfor another yea,:  I  
upcomingfootha/1 season.'"  believe that you have trzt~l' cap­ 
tured the Spirit ofOur Laczi· \·  
Fr. Bill Beauchamp, C.S.C  Universitv.  Thanks!"  
Executive Vice President  -The Huebners  
Emeritus  
Winston-Salem, NC  
ND Parents  

Exclusively available at the Hamn1es Notre Dan1e Bookstore 
Meet Tim or Ryan O'Neill in the bookstore this weekend! Friday 5-7 pm . Sunday 1-2 pm 
www.pianobrothers.com 
Friday, September 15, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
GOP plan pushes debt reduction 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 

Democrats are deriding a Hepublican eler.tion-season plan for using 'JO percent of rwxt year's expected surplus l'or debt rnduction. B ll t Thursday, 
m a n y 
Democrats voted for a b I u e print or it any­way, 
T h ti 
llouse Ways and :l.foans Committee votNI :B-0 to create a proctiss for using 'JO percent ol' next year's projected $268 billion projected budget surplus for rnducing the national chibt. Only tho remaining $27 billion would be available !'or Urn lax cuts and extra spending the two part.i1is agrne to over the n,\Xt l'Pw wePks, as Congn~ss struggles to adjourn l'or the voar. ' Tlw bill rPf'lects the GOP's rww11st statnd goal: reserving 'JO percent of next year's expnctPd federal surplus to trim thn debt. Unable to force their biggnst tax cuts into law ovPr Clinton vetoes. Hf'!lllblicans hope their nPW drivP will hnl11 tlwm grab cred­it for dPbt rPClul'tion and limit l'r<'sid!'nt ClinLon's efforts to usn tlw monpy to boost spend­ing. 
llighlighting lhe "victe popu­lari tv of debt reduction. Df'm;)('.ratic leaders predicted tlw nrnasur<' would sail through the I louse next week, with many from their party supporting it. But they mocked tlrn bill as a COP abandonment of' tlwir longtime tax-cutting priority that would never 

{{7., 

make it through the Senate and would prove too restric­tive for even Republicans to live with. 
Democrats said the GOP plan would not leave enough to pay for both parties' desires to cut taxes for telephone users, stu­dents. inner cities and some small businesses and to boost spending for schools, hospitals and nursing homes, fighting forest fires, defense and other programs. 
House Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-rII., defended the Republicans' plan for debt rnduction. saying it was their response to Clinton's veto of major GOP bills cutting taxes for many married couples and on large. inherited estates. 
Though stopping short of saying that Clinton opposes it. White House budget ol'ficc spokeswoman Linda Ricci said the GOP measure "feels a bit like a bait and switch" because it would last for only one year. /\dministration officials and Democrats say the Republican plan would leave room for tax cuts that would grow over the years. crowding out debt n1duction, 
Democrats also said the Hcpublican proposal marked an abandonment of GOP presi­dential candidate George W, Bush and h.is proposed $1. 3 trillion, 10-year tax cuts. 
The GOP debt-reduction plan... means "Ilepubliea.ns elfoctively doclarnd their nominee's bud­g11t dead on arrival even bdore it's clear whether he'll be given an opportunity to submit a budget," said Ron Klain. adviser to Vice President "1 Gore, the Democratic presidential candi­
datl~. 

Bush spokesman Ari Fleischer said the congression­al GOP's plan is "very under­standable" because given Clinton's tax-bill vetoes, it was needed to keep Clinton from a "spending spree." 
Under the measure, all of 
the Social Security and 
Medicare surpluses -plus 
most of the rest of next year's 
budget surplus -would be 
directed to debt reduction. It 
would take 60 votes in the 
100-member Senate to do oth­
erwise. 
Meanwhile, Republirnns 
ignored a White House veto 
threat and muscled two spend­
ing bills through the House on 
Thursday. 
With the Oct. 1 start of fiscal 
2001 drawing ever closer. the 
House approved a $414 mil­
lion measure financing the 
District of Columbia's govern­
ment. The vote was 21 7 -207. 
A few hours later, they voted 
212-209 for a second bill pro­
viding $30.3 billion for 
Congress' own operations, the 
Treasury Department and 
smaller agencifls. 
Both votes were nflarly 
party-line, with Hepublicans 
saying they had failed to work 
out compromises with 
Democrats. 
But with 11 of the 13 annual 
spending bills for the coming ..fiscal year still incomplete ­
includiug eight that face 
Clinton administration veto 
throats -Congress has a long 
way to go before lawmakers 
can go home for the presiden­
tial and congressional elec­
tions. 
Democrats complained 
about both measures the 
Bouse approved Thursday, 
though only the Treasury-leg­
islative measure faced a veto 
threat by Clinton. They com­
plained about shortfalls for 
student aid and an environ­
mental cleanup in the District 
of Columbia. 

-.,FOR A CELEBRATION 
:.-x:y genero?.~,t~~~~nt~e~~~~a: like 
• 
Shrimp Farfalle • Chicken Parmesan 

• 
Pasta con Fbllo • Shrimp Ravioli 

• 
Chicken Scallopini • Salmone alla Griglia 


Papa recommends beginning your celebration with our Bruschetta -a crusty Italian baguette topped with ripe Roma tomatoes, Balsamic vinegar and fresh basil. 
Delizioso! 

5110 Edison Lakes Parkway 
219.271.1692 RESERVATIONS ACCEPTED HOURS: Sunday -Thursday 11:00 a.m, -10:00 p.m. Friday -Saturday11:00a.m. -11:00p.m. 
Liberians rally for illlmigration support 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Michael Williams left his par­ents, siblings and the violence in Liberia last year hoping for a better life in America. 
Two weeks ago, the 19-year­old lost his job in Rhode Island because, he says, he can't prove to his boss that he'll be in this country beyond Sept. 28. 
That's the day that he and other Liberians who fled their civil war-torn country will be eli­gible for deportation unless Congress makes them perma­nent residents. 
"I was in danger in Liberia ­everyone is in danger there," Williams said. "The rebels have no clear goals on who to kill and who not to kill, so they will kill anyone." 
He hasn't bflen in touch with his family for months Massachusetts and Illinois. 
When they first arrived, they received temporary protection status which allows for a stay of six to 18 months for people whose homeland is hit by natur­al disaster or war. 
The Libflrians were granted extension after extension as the civil war continued. But with the fighting officially over in 1997, Attorney General Janet Reno decided last year that another extension could not be made. 
Instead, the Clinton adminis­tration allowed the Liberians to remain in America until Sept. 28 under a "deferred enforcfld departure" status. Sen. Jack Reed, the Rhode Island Democrat sponsoring the legisla­tion, said President Clinton hacks his bill. Both Massachusetts senators are co­sponsors; so is Rhode Island Sen. Lincoln Chafee, a 
many people "/ was in danger in Republican. 
in Liberia Liberia -everyone is in Rep. Patrick have no tele­Kflnnedy, D­
danger there.,, 
phone service R.I. is sponsor­and mail is ing a House not delivered. Michael Williams version of the 
"All the bill that is not
Liberian immigrant
post offices were burned down in the war years," Williams said. "And they haven't been rebuilt." 
Williams was one of about :mo Liberians who turned out for a rally on Capitol Hill Thursday to draw attention to a pair of bills that would grant them perma­nent resident status. Without it. the Liberians and their support­ers say, they face oppression, if not death. back home. 
One woman at the rally held a poster-sized photograph of rows of skulls covering thfl ground. The caption read: "This is what awaits us." 
In one of the longest-running immigration sagas of its kind, 
10.000 to 15,000 Liberians have been living in the United States since 1991. 
About 4,000 live in Hhode Island; many others settled in 
. Bed N' Breakfast Registry 
Jayce Smigidski ' Stay iii a "Home dose to the Dome" 219/232-0774 888/830-7722 
http://busincss.michiana.org/hnhrcg/ 
likely to c:ome 
up for a vote. 

If Congress doesn't make the Liberians per­manent residents. the Department of Immigration and Naturalization Service can hold off deportation procedures or extend their current status, 
"No decisions have been made now," said Evleen Schmidt. an INS spokeswo-man. "We'rn wait­ing to see what Congress does," 
Without permanent residency or citizenship, the Liberians must apply for annual work per­mits. And many employers are reluctant to hire workers who face possible deportation. 
"My husband and I are not able to get jobs to use the skills we have," said Mai Yuan, who has lived with her husband and three children in Lvnn, Mass. for 11 years. In Liberia. Yuan was as an agricultural economist and her husband was an elflctrical engineer. Yuan now works for the Massachusetts Department of Mental Health; hflr husband works for a data processing company. 
Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 

Actors from the Ijondor1 Stage As You Like It 
by W1ll1am Shakespeare 
Thursday, September 14 ............. 7:30 pm 
Friday, ::eptember 15 ................... 7:30 pm 
Saturday, September 16 ............. 7:30 pm 
Playing at Washington Hall Reserved Seats $16 • Seniors $14 • All Students $1 2 Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631 ·8128. 


THE FOLLOWING EVENTS .ARE HAPPENING'.~T THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTOR.ii.Y Author Events: 


Friday, Sept. 15 from Noon to 2:00 p.m., Hejsman Award Winner Leon Hart signs copies of his video, "The Golden Years ofNotre Dame Football. " Proceeds of this signing will benefit the Brannan Boland Fund. 
Friday, Sept. 15 from 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m., University o( Notre Dame President Father Malloy will be signing copies of his book, Monk's Reflections. 
Also on Friday, Sept. 15 at 5:00 p.m., and Saturday,.Sept~ti 16 from 9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m., Murray Sperber will discuss (Friday only) and sign copies of his book, Beet and •·· Circus: How Big-Time College Sports Is Crippling Undergraduate Education. 
Rudy Ruettiger became a household name with the of the film "Rudy." Now a motivational speaker and author; .·•·•·•···..••·••··.. Rudy will sign copies of his book, Rudy's Insights for Winning in Life on Saturday, Sept. 16 from 9:30 a;.m. 
11:30 a.m. 

StorytimefeiJ.tures th:e story Hello Shoes, with craft and sing~.< along on Tu~day, Sept. 19 at 11:30 a.m. ... 
On Saturday, Sept. 23 at 2:00 p.m., Michael Phayer wiU sign copies of his new book The Catholic Church and the. Holocaust, 1930-1965, an important new examination the Catholic Church, the Holocaust, and antisemitism. HAMMES 
Storytime on Tuesday, Sept. 26 at 11:30 a.m. features crafts, songs, and ~••· reading of Look Alikes, Jr. 
Music Events: On Friday, Sept. 15 from 2:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. and .. Sunday, ~ept. 17from 2:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m., J?ianis•/ Emmeline Schoen, Class of '03, performs. 
On Saturday, Sept. 16 at 8:00 a.m., Bagpiper Joe Smitffj;::i Class of 'OI, perfqrms. From 9:00 a.m. to 11:0Q a.m.,:;[i?ii(i~ Pianist Jo¢ Fremeau, Class of '02, performs. 


Frillit)fj / · 9;00 am -5:00 pm
Acapella group, The Undertones, performs one .. 
Saturday 8:00 am ~ 7 :00 pm
~~!if
f;1i't ' 
hour after the game on Saturday, Sept. 16. 
Suhdi!f\ 10:00 am -2:00 pm 
::::A\i:!::::;.;;}:::t:\t:i:i/::· 
hi<lay, September 15, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 13 
Scientists reject ending blood ban 
Associated Press 
GAIT!lEHSBUllG, Md. 

Covr.rnment sci1-rntists nar­rowly rejcrtrd a proposal to ease lh(i ban on gay male blood donors Thursday. citing unr.Pr­lainly whr.thrr thr move would incrcasn thl' AIDS risk to the nation's blood supply 
All lllf\ll ,vho srr.k to donate blood an~ asknd ii" thev have had S<'X. rw<in oner. with another man sirn'.e 1977. Thmm who say tlrny hav<' arr pPrmanently banned from donating blood. 
Thr l;ood and Drug Administration asked ilo, scien­lific advisnrs Thursdav whNhcr it should rhang"(\ thn blood­donation rulr. to ban only men who had st'X with another man within the last five vears. 
But thP advisc,:s votrd 7-6 that thnrP was not enough' evi­d<~ ncr that it was sale to make that chang1i. The FDA is not bound bv it..; advisPrs' decisions but typic.ally follows them. 
Changing the polir:y would havr' rnsultrd in about 62,300 gay mPn -or nrnn whu had <~xp,~rimrnt,,d with homosexual activity only onr.e -seeking to donatP blood. estimated FDA mudical of1ker /\ndrnw D<1.yton. From them, 1.7 !!IV-infected unit,;; or blood might sneak into the blood supply, h11 said. 
The issuc has split thP blood industry. with half of the nalion·s blood banks supporting casing thP policy even more ­lo onr vnar instead of five ­whilr• thr\ Amnrirnn Bnd Cross opposes any changP.. 
All donatPd blood undergoes strict !1\sting for thc AIDS virus and other blood-borne diseases -that would not havp, changed. Buf testing isn't ptrfect. or thr nation's 12 million units of donatt'd blood. about 10 HIV­infected unil.., slip through each y<'ar. causing about two to three IIIV infections a year. said Michael Busch of the University of California-San f.rancisco. 
So as an extra prer.aution, the FDA also requires blood hanks to qurstion potential donors about their risks for IIIV and other diseases and rf'fuse the blood of high-risk people. ThA hope is people will not lie. although studies show many do. 
The ban on gay male donors was adopted in 1985 because Lhe deadly AfDS virus first appeared hPre as an epidemic in the gay community. Later, other high-risk people were barred from donating. sur:h as intravenous drug users and prostitutes. 
But now -with the nation bracing for blood shortages and new genrii<: testing that promis­es to eliminate thr rare cases .supply," said Hf:bccca I lalcy, the 
Red Cross's chief medical offi­
cer. 
The FDA considered easing the ban partly because the nation is facing an increasingly tight blood supply. 
Only 8 milliun Americans donate blood, just 5 perr:ent of currently eligible donors. Blood donations are decreasing about 1 percent a year. while demand for blood is increasing by 1 per­cent a year. 
Already, some cities routinely 
experience blood shortages dur­
ing holidays and the summer. 
when regular donors go on 
vacation, and blood banks are 
bracing for more serious short­
ages if donations continue Lo 
decline. 
U n t i 1 
recently. all 

of' HIV still "We cannot change our donated caused by blood was
procedures in a way that 
donated blood tested for
would result in increased
-many blood immune banks are ask­numbers ofir~fectious system ing why they cells that
blood donation in our 
have to turn fight HIV.
blood supply."
away thousands But those of potentially antibodies healthy men. Rebecca Haley may nut "I don't think appear
Red Cross chief medical officer
there's enough information t.o make a decision at this point in time," said John Boyle. a Maryland blood safety consultant for the FDA. 
But even panelists who voted against the change did encour­age the FDA to continue to study how to change what sev­eral c:allcd a discriminatory poli­cy that mandates no gay men can give blood even though doc­tors are only worried about a subset of'that populations. 
!\boot 8 percent of gay men have IIIV, the government esti­mates. 
"We cannot change our pro­cetlures in a way that would result in increased numbers of infectious donation in our blood 
until 80 
days after 
an infec­tion, so newly infected donors have sometimes slipped through. Last year, however, blood banks began using a new genetic test that they believe can largely eliminate that risk. Nucleic acid testing, or NAT, can detect tiny amounts of a virus before the donor's body has even recognized the infec­tion. 11 days after a person is infected. 
That means the test could easily catch HIV infection in a man who had sex with an HIV­infected man a year ago, much less five, said some blood banks that urged the FDA to go with a one-year policy instead. 

.------------------------------------------­
Good things came 


to those who played. 
Congratulations to the following MSU Ticket Raffle number holders 
Alternate numbers and further information 
is posted outside of the SUB office, 2nd floor LaFortune 
MSU vs. Notre Dame 
September 2 3, 2000 
•• -.. ~ '!'-"_ • ~ ~ .. ,,. :;" -•• , •• ~ ~ ...... ---< 
U.S. scholars urge anti-sweatshop study 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO A group of U.S. scholars is asking more than lO0 college 
presidents to reconsider their support of the popular anti­sweatshop movement. 
"There was too much intimi­dation going on," said Jagdish Bhagwati. a Columbia University professor who is urging U.S. university officials to think carefully before jumping on the anti-sweat­shop bandwagon. 
Students across the country have led protest marches, sit­ins and hunger strikes to urge their schools to support the monitoring of working condi­tions in factories where colle­giate clothes and caps are made. 
The group r.o-founded by Bhagwati and calling itself the Academic Consortium on International Trade has writ­ten a Jetter to 150 college presidents asking them to reconsider their support. 
The group claims many col­leges have caved into student demands without lrtting fac­ulty members and students express dissenting opinions. 
Maria Roeper, an official with the Worker Rights Consortium. a group of 60 institutions aligned with labor unions and other social activist groups, argued that most universities had already held long debates on the sub­ject of sweatshops. 
She said members of Bhagwati's group were unable to admit defeat. 
Federal in01ate asks Clinton for life ter01 
Associated Press 
DALLAS 

A Hispanic inmate who could become the first person executed by the federal government since 1963 has urged President Clinton to commute his sentence to life in prison because of the "long­standing racial bias" involving capital punishment sentencing. 
Lawyers for Juan Raul Garza, sentenced to death in 1993 for three drug-related murders, asked the Justice Department for clemency in light of the depart­ment's admission this week that 80 percent of defendants charged with federal crimes pun­ishable by death during the last five years were minorities. 
Last month. Clinton delayed 
Recording • Production • Mastefi: Duplication • Muslc & Vocal Le / ... Demo Production • Music Equipff'i' Sound & lights • Sales & Renflil Analog 2" & Digital Hard Drive Sy$ 
"The Biggest Recording Stud/ 
Jn Northwest lndinna·• 

l___..(21H) 288-H27 
Garza's scheduled Aug. 5 execu­tion, setting a new Dec. 12 date and giving the 43-year-old inmate access to the Justice Department's findings as well as the opportunity to apply for clemency. 
Garza's lawyers said they were asking for a new sentence "in the face ofsuch profound doubts and uncertainties about the funda­mental fairness of the federal death penalty." 
Attorney General Janet Reno has said she was dismayed over the racial and geographic dispar­ities but defended the federal capital punishment system's ulti­mate fairness. 
Justice Department spokes­woman Gretchen Michael con­firmed that Garza had submitted a new clemency petition. 
It's your day to be in the spotlight! Happy 21st Birthday, Jilly! 
Love, Ryan, Garrett, and the Lyons Girls 
319004 319002 319028 319035 319036 319037 319056 319057 319070 319075 319086 319107 319110 319118 319125 319145 319151 319156 319159 319161 319166 319195 319196 319201 319211 319212 319214 319215 319220 319227 319228 319241 319242 319252 319255 319281 319286 319297 319304 319305 
319317 319369 319397 319399 319405 319418 319420 319422 319426 319443 319456 319471 319479 319496 319498 319504 319507 319527 319529 319532 319539 319553 319559 319586 319587 319600 319616 319617 319645 319647 319655 319657 319684 319698 319727 319729 319733 319748 319777 319793 

319796 319799 319801 319804 319808 319832 319833 319846 319855 319877 319879 319902 319903 319907 319911 319929 319953 319961 
T u D 

page 14 The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 Friday, September 15, 2000 
Gore appears on Letterman 
As.,ocia1cd Pre§s 
NEWYOHK 
Al Gore pushed cel!'brity poli­ticking to dizzying heights Thursday as Im traded laughs with TV's David 1.ntterman over r i v a I 
t;eorgC\ W. Bush's recenl goof's, and raise<l mil­lions with B P t l e Mid l Pr. Paul Simon 

und compa-Gore 
ny. 
(:ore, who strode onto Letterman's unpredictable soundstage to the tune of 
Prince's "Kiss," booed the talk show host's suggeslion that he had an anti-Clinton motive in mind when he laid a pussionale kiss nn wife Tipper at the Democratic National Convnntion. 
'Tm not going to be chasing interns. That's really what it said," Lottnrrnan said. 
Replied the vice prnsident: "C'mon, G'mon. Boo. Give me a lm1ak." 
In a video snippet and "Top Ten" list produced just for the occasion, Gore poked run at Bush for recently uttering a vul­garity about a reporter into a microphone that he didn't know was live. 
Gorn olforcd, among his list or rnjected campaign slogans, "We know whnn the microphone is on." Another, rnfnrring to nm­ning male .Joe Lieberman, an 
• 
en 
.... 
0 

Orthodox Jew, wns: "With 
Lieberman on tlrn ticket. you 
get all kinds of fun new days 
off. Vote for us, we're going to 
work 24/6."' 

The Democratic presidential candidate's coziness with movie mogul llarvey Weinstein -in the same week that Gore launched a fresh crusade against Ilullywood smut -had fiepublicans crying, "llypocritc." 
Weinstnin oprncd his Upper West Sid11 apartment to Gorn and LiebPrman f'or a VIP recep­tion with Harrison Ford and Salma llayek. and then caught a ride in Gore's motorcade to a Radio City Music Hall extrava­ganza that, under thP. supervi­sion of' Weinstein and Holling Stone publisher Jann Wenner. bagged more than $6.5 million for the Democratic Party. 
AftN saying nothing on the issue to the group in Weinstein's apartment, Gore won lame applause al Radio City when he admonished: ''I'll be straightforward and honest about this. It is wrong tu mar­ket inappropriate material to children. I believe this very deeply." 
Performers following Gore to the grand stage made jokes of the Democrats' latest campaign issue. 
Midler, who makes her TV sitcom debut this fall, said, "Joe Lieberman is smiling at me now. Just wait until sweeps. He's going to be coming aftrw me with a broom." 
Comic actor John Leguizamo cracked that the fund-raising 
cast "had to take lime off from 
our jobs where we push a lot or 
sexual and deviant material." 
Hcpublican National Committee Chairman Jim Nicholson was not laughing. 
"Al Gore says he stands wiih the people against the power­ful," Nicholson said. 
"But with whom does he stand tonight -the parents whose young kids arc having their minds polluted and their souls corrupted by Hollywood. or does he stand with the pow­erful Hollywood elite who put money in his pocket here tonight'!" 
Gore began the week threat­ening federal penalties against the entertainment industry if, within six months, it doesn't stop marketing adult-rated material to youngsters -as a Federal Trade Commission report this week accused it of doing. 
Weinstein released the NC-17 rated ''Kids" about adolescents using drugs and having Sl!Ji.. His Miramax studio was behind the extremely violent "Pulp Fiction.'" 
Gore spokesman Mark Fabiani said Gore representa­tives were in contact with Weinstein and other entertain­ment executives this week to outline the candidate's position. 
The night's songfest by Jon Bon Jovi, k.d. lang, Sheryl Crow, Jimmy Buffett and others was the grand finale to a trio of concerts that, along with lunch­es and dinners, earned the Democrats more than $11 mil­lion for the week. 

Bush debate tape appears in Gore office 
. FBI investigates anonymously mailed video 
Associated Press 
POMONA. Calif. 
George W. Bush's campaign said Thursday that a vidootapn mysteriously mailed to an Al Gore confident appeared to be an authentic copy of' the Texas governor's debate rehearsal. 
The PB! is investigating how the tape and other mater­
"It appears that whoever appeared to
ial may have 
be debate 

reached the obtained that tape did so 
preparationWashington in some sort of matorials. 
office of for-
unethical way. " llughos said 
mer Rep. 
she didn't 

T o m 
know whether 

Downey, Karen Hughes 
the documents 

who had 
Bush spokeswoman were authen­
been helping Gore pre­pare for debates. The Gore campaign immediately turned the mystery package over to the FBI after getting it Wednesday. 
"It appears that whoever obtained that tape did so in some sort of unethical way," Bush spokeswoman Karen Hughes told reporters. "The only people who would have had authorized access to that tape were the most senior members of our campaign." 
Hughes refused to speculate on whether tho tape may have 
been stolen or how it may have b1Hm obtained. Bush officials said there was no evidence of a break-in, although the FBI will investigatn the possibility. 
The tape showed Bush rehearsing with S,rn . .I udd Gregg, H-N.11., who played Gorp in rehrmrsals at Bush's ranch in Crawford. Texas. about a month ago, I lug-hes said. 
The package, which was postmarked Austin, Texas, where the Bush campaign is headquartored, also included a stack of' docu­ments that 
tic. 
"It's less clear about that," she said. "They appear to be Xerox copies of legilimatli documents from the campaign." 
Hughes said thal those who had legitimate access to the tapes included herself. cam­paign managnr Joe /\llbaugh and top advisers Karl Hove and Mark McKinnon, Bush's ad man. None of tlrnsn people would hav1~ sent the material to the Gorn campaign, she said. Whoever obtairrnd the tapes. slrn said, is "someone outside or our campaign." 

Domino's _D~liyery
~<C
ri 
:?N 
ON 

ca. -211·-0300
~--(;, 
Store Hours: 
Sunday -Thursday 11 am -2 am 
Friday & Saturday 11 am -3 am 



Friday, September 15, 2000 The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 page 15 
Bush, Gore agree to face off in prime-time debate 
Associated Press 
WASI IINGTON 

Hepublican George W. Bush, giving in after a two­week baltle over debates, agreed Thursday to Democrat Al Gore's demand that they meet in three prime-time confrontations sponsored by a bipartisan panel. The running mates will debatfl once. 
Amcric.ans will see Bush and Gore go head to head on television Oct. 3 in Boston, OcL 11 in Winston-Salem, N.C.. and Oct. 17 in St. Louis, with each dcbatf\ lasting 90 minutes, according to the 
agreement reached Thursday. 
Details on the format must be worked out, and the cam­paigns are to meet on that today. Bush's communica­tions director, Karen Hughes, said the Texas governor is still pressing for the "more free-flowing and more spon­taneous format" that had been a major part of his earli­er debate plans. 
Bush previously had balked at the proposal of the biparti­san Commission on Presidential Debates, but he has been under prnssure to accept -not only from Democratic foes but from Republicans who wanted him to put the distraction behind him. 
The agreement was announced by Bush campaign chairman Don Evans and his Democratic counterpart, Gore campaign chairman William Daley, after their fin;t joint meeting with the debate com­mission. 
"The governor is very eager to debate," Evans said. 
"We've made great progress," said Daley. "The American people want to hear from these people." 
The vice presidential candi­dates, Democrat Joseph Lieberman and Republican 
Dick Cheney, will debate Oct. 5 in Danville, Ky. 
Reform Party nominee Pat Buchanan and Green Party nominee Ralph Nader, both registering single digits in national polls, most likely will not meet the commission's threshold of 15 percent in media polls for inclusion. 
The negotiations ended a standoff lasting several weeks in which Bush held out for doing only one debate spon­sored by the commission and several less formal matchups in other venues, such as one on a special edition of NBC's "Meet the Press" and another on CNN's "Larry King Live." 
************************* 
PRESIDENTIAL DEBATE SCHEDULE 
************************* 
October 3: Boston October 11: 


October 5: Danville, KY 

************~************ 

Mapping the presidential race 
Debates crucial to presidential race 
Here is a look at the 50 states in the battle for electoral votes in the presidential campaign. The map shows the number of electoral votes in each slate as well as an analysis of where each stale now stands: solid for Republican George W. Bush or Democrat Al Gore, leaning 
accept. Gore shifted, saying he on Oct. 5. 
toward one of the candidates or a tossup. 
Associated Press would do so only as an addition to The Bush campaign issued its 
'Bush •Gore Tossup 

the kind of presidential debates own proposal on Aug. 17, the day WASHINGTON that have become a tradition since Gore accepted the Democratic nom­
While (ieorge W. Bush tried 1976. ination. and before the vice presi­futilely to make an issue of debates, "If we can't trust Al Gore on dent's climb in the polls. Bush said Al Gore kept demanding three tra­debates, why should we trust him he wanted three debates but not ditional, prime-time confrontations, on anything?" the GOP ad asked, necessarily those the commission and won the 
but it turned out had set, and two between the vice argument. that potential presidential nominees. 
That seCof 90-voters didn't He later said he wanted the minu te debates, much care about debates on NBC in Washington this over two crucial that dispute over week, on CNN in Los Angeles Oct. 3, weeks begin­details. They with one commission debate on Oct. ning Oct. 3, may just wanted 17. Gore said Bush was trying to be decisive in debates. duck maximum exposure.
State-by-state voting histocy 
the campaign In an AP poll, The bickering is usual. So was the 
Here is a breakdown of each state's electoral votes in the past three 
for the White more than half upshot -the candidate who most
presidential elections. 
Gore Bush

House. Debates, said they'd needs the headway that debates
Republican e Democratic 

Gore versus watch debates, can produce is the one who yields, ·ss '92 ·95 '88 '92 '96 
Bush with one between their run­and nearly 60 percent called them as Bush did. 
Alabama 0 0 0 Montana 0 e 0 
ning mates, will dominate the cam­an important part of the campaign. The formats are still to be decid­
Alaska Gi.l CJ 0 . Nebraska O 0 0 
paign while they are on, and echo Bush accepted what had become ed. Bush's negotiators say they 
' 
Arizona 0 0 Nevada O • • Arkansas I& New Hampshire G • • 
afterward. Gore's debate terms on Thursday. want free flowing discussions, not 
California 0 New Jersey O • • 
Between preparation, perfor­The vice president didn't design rigid formats that can be forums for 
Colorado 0 0 New Mexico O • 
mance and that echo, October will the schedule; the Commission on rehearsed sound bites.
Connecticut 0 NewYork • • 
Delaware 0 North Carolina ® Q @ 
be debate month. It also is the Presidential Debates, which sounds Televised debates can turn a 
Florida e El North Dakota ® Q ® 
month when crucial undecided vot­official but is private, did, setting campaign.
Georgia () Q Ohio ® e 
ers are likely to decide whether to the dates and picking the sites more George Bush, this nominee's
• • 0 €) • 

Hawaii Oklahoma 0 
go with Democrat Gore -edging than six months ago. The bipartisan father, said he "just felt uncomfort­
Idaho 0 (0 Oregon 
Illinois 0 Pennsylvania 0 
ahead in the polls and gaining on commission has been doing so since able" debating in the 1992 series Indiana 0 0 0 Rhode Island 
turning point issues or the 1988 campaign, always subject that set him back against chal­
Iowa South Carolina ® 0 © 
Republican Bush, who has seen his to agreement by the nominees. lenger Bill Clinton. On the other
,)• • • • •

Kansas 0 South Dakota 0 0 @ 
early lead fade away. That has led to some changes and hand, he gained in the polls after a
Kentucky 0 Tennessee 0 
Louisiana 0 Texas ® 0 ® 
Distractions from his chosen mes­bypassed debates. This time, the 1988 debate against Democrat 
@

Maine 0 Utah 0 @ 
sages have been part of his prob­commission set debates for Boston Michael Dukakis. 
Maryland Vermont ® 
lem. And his debate ploy became on Oct. 3, Winston-Salem, N.C., on In an interview for a PBS pro­
Massachusetts • Virginia Q) 11) G 
one such distraction, with Oct. 11, and St. Louis on Oct. 17, gram to he broadcast Sept. 24,
Michigan 0 Washington 
Minnesota • West Virginia 
Republican critics grumbling that with a debate between the vice Bush said he found debates an ugly 
M1ss1ssipp1 GJ Wisconsin 
he was wasting time by challenging presidential nominees, Republican experience. "I don't like them," he 
Missouri Wyoming Q 0 Q 
Gore to talk show debates the vice Dick Cheney and Democrat Sen. said.
i D.C. 
L__ ·-----------·-----------' president once had said he would Joseph Lieberman, in Danville, Ky., Whv not? 
Sources. -Amenca Votes·: AP anah!,ws AP 
"Pa~tially, because I wasn't good at them. Secondly, some of it's con­trived. Show business." 
George W. Bush has said repeat­edly that he is eager to debate. But this round was not the first in

A perfect meeting place 
which he has miscalculated. Riding high for the Republican
throughout the weekend. 
nomination a year ago, he said he wouldn't debate the rest of the field until the 2000 campaign year
Open Friday and Saturday Illring began. But the polls in New 
I Hampshire showed him slipping ­he eventually lost to Sen. John
ND. Home Football Weekends. 
McCain there -and he started 
debating his rivals, nine times 
before it was over. 
Gore has issued a stream of
Everyone Welcome 
debate challenges since Bill Bradley 
___,....•,n~·... ,, started gaining on him early in ,Ji · their co1itest for the Democratic Live Music Fridays, 2 -6p.m. it.ft nomination. He said they should 
·"'·••· debate once a week, then upped it to twice a week.
Grilled Burgers, Brats, 

When the nominations were won,and Other Specialties more than six months ago, the vice president challenged Bush to week­Cold Beverages & Spirits _{\ ly debates. The governor ignored it. Now Bush and Gore will renew the tradition of presidential cam­
6011 

Screen TV's paign debates that began in 1960, then lapsed for three campaignsFully Enclosed Tent because one nominee or the other saw no advantage in debating. They 
!~lh:?!i 
have been part of each campaign next to the N.D. Bookstore. 631-2000 since 1976, managed by the debate commission since 1988. 
Friday, Septemeber 15, 2000 

page 16 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


Dear Alumni & Friends, 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation to come together and celebrate the Eucharist this weekend. · 
Purdue Football Weekend September 16-17, 2000 
Saturday Vigil Masses 
Basilica 30 minutes after game 
Stel'an Center 45 minutes after game 
Sunday Masses 
Basilica 8:00, 10:00 am & 11:45 am Sacred Heart 
Parish Cryl'l 6:00, 7:oo, s:oo, 9:30 & 11:00 am 


? • ~. 1 ; ~• ) ~ ~ .1" ;. f ~ t l_ ,I ·-i _ -, " I '' 1j l 1 Ii t , . j ;·, I ( . ' ' , . 11 1 I '1 J,1( • · i: ~ -i ' -__ ' J • • J • j 1 , 1 I (..::, f ·, i' : l· lr ~ '.J ' --; I f ' -; · • · ' u t" 
----~----... ----~ 

Friday, September 15, 2000 
The Observer . NEWS page 17 
Senate establishes China trade vote 
Assoc.:iaced Press 
WAS! IINC;TON 

Tlw Srnate on Thursday beat back thn last proposed amend­nwnLc; to legislation putting nor­mal trade with China on a per­mannnt basis. setting up a vote on thP historic bill next Tuesday. 
With all obstacles now n~moved. at least 70 snnators ar(1 expPcted to endorse the nwasurr that would open China's markNs and give Anwriran businessPS and farm­NS th(' chance to significantly increasP their sales. 
SPn. William Hoth. B-Del.. a · chief advocate. citPd figures esti­mating that the new relationship woulcl n·sult in $13 billion in rn·w U.S. exports to China. 
Passage or the bill. strongly barkml by the Clinton adminis­tration and tlw business commu­nity. is 111'('.Pssary if the United Statr,s is to r,njoy the lower tar­iffs and rPdurcd tradP barriers China is rnmmitted to as part of its accession to the World Trade ( lrganization. 
First. thP Senate had to dear awav 1<) anwndments offered in lhn past two weeks. inducting six on Thursday. China traclf1 sup­porters had said any amnnd­mcnt would kill thr, bill's pas­sagP this year. bc<'ause the llousn wouldn't havP limn to ronsidt'r tlw changPs bd'orr CongrPss adjourns next month. 
The amendments were offered mainly by critics ol' China who objected to giving the Beijing gnvPrnment pPrmanent trade status bef'ore China improves its human rights, labor and weapons proliferation policies. 
Among the amendments con­sidered Thursday were propos­als by Sen. Ernest Hollings, D­ing a national missile defense system. 
"I find it ironic that, on the eve of our new rPlationship with China. Beijing is threatening us," Thompson said. 
Another note of discord sur­faced Thursday when Zeng Jianhui, chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee of China's 
S .C., requir­ing an end to dericits with 

"/find it ironic that, 
China in cere­als and on the even ofour new advanced 
relationship with 
technology 

China, Beijing is 
trade, and 

one by Sen. threatening us. " Hobert Smith. H-N.H. on the 
Fred Thompson
monitoring of 

senator, R-Tenn.
Chinese coop­era tion on 
POW-MIA 
and enjoy-successful retirements. 

Choosing your retirement plan provider is simple. Go with the leader: TIAA-CREF. 
National Peoples Congress said in Washington that Taiwan could enter the 1:1s­nation WTO after China as a "separate customs terri0 torv of China." 
The United States says 

issues. All were handily defeated or rejected by voice. 
The biggest challenge to an amendment-free bill came Wednesday when the Senate voted 65-32 to defeat a measure offered by Sens. Fred Thompson, R-Tenn , and Robmt Torricelli. H-N.J.. on sanctioning Chinese and other companies trafficking in weapons of mass destruction. 
Thompson said Thursday that. just one day af'ter that vote:· ChinesP officials wpre again warning the United Statns of the "grave consequences" of build-that designation for Taiwan is unacceptable. 
President Clinton. in a letter this week to Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott. R-Miss.. said there was a common under­standing with .China that both China and Tahvan will be invited to accede to the WTO at the same WTO general council ses­sion and that Taiwan will join as the "Separate Customs Territory of Taiwan. Penghu. Kinmen and l'vfatsu." 
"The United States will not acr,ept any other outrome." Clinton said. 

RETIREMENT INSURANCE' MUTUAL FUNDS t TflUS:T SERVICE~,' TUITION FINANCING 
Why is TIAA-CREF the #1 choice nationwide? 
The TIAA-CREF Advantage. 
Year in and year out, employees at education and 
research institutions have turned to TIAA-CREF. 
And for good reasons: 

• 
Easy diversification among a range of expertly managed funds 

• 
A solid history of performance and exceptional personal service 

• 
A strong commitment to low expenses 


• 
Plus, a full range of flexible retirement income options 


For decades, TIAA-CREF has helped professors and staff at over 9,000 campuses across the country invest for­



UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROCRAMS 
101 StturH:y DuUdJnc 
Notre D•me. 1N 46556-0397 T: (719) 631-588? Fa,:: (219) 631-57JI 

JERVSALEM 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Fr. David Burrell, C.S.C. Julliet Mayinja, Assistant Director International Study Programs 
MONDAY SEPTEMBER J.3, 2000 
4:45 P.M. 
21.4 DEBARTOLO 
ALL ARE WELCOME! 
.. 
ii 
Ensuring the future 

1.800.842.2776 
for those who shape it.'" 
www. tiaa-cref. org 
For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest.• TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the CREF and TIAA Real Estate variable annu1t1es. • Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements. • TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities.• TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. 
• Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03 
CANADA 
Three luxury cruise ships seized in Halifax 
Associated Press 
HALIFAX. Nova Scotia 
Three luxury cruise ships operated by a U.S. company that abruptly went out of business were seized by authorities in the Bahamas and Canada Thursday, and at least 1,450 passengers were put ashore, officials said. 
The Rembrandt and the SeaBreeze, were seized in Halifax, and the Oceanic was impounded in Nassau in the Bahamas. All are owned by Premier Cruise Lines of Port Canaveral, 
Fla. 
In June, the company dis­missed nearly 10 percent of its work force to cut company costs amid ongoing financial losses. 
Premier, which moved from Miami last year, also sold one or its seven ships and was trying to sell others, The company lost $20 million last year, company officials said. 
In Boston. Massachusetts Port Authority official Georgeane Tacelie, who con­firmed that the SeaBreeze had been seized, said Premier Cruise 
Lines noti­

A b o u t "Last night was pirates 
fied the

850 pas­
theme [on the ship}. 
port that it

s en g er s 
Today, we're walking the had ceased
w e r e directed plank." 
operations ashore 
Thursday. It wasn't

from the 
anonymous female passenger immediate­
15,000-ton Rembrandt. aboard the Rembrandt ly known 
officials in 
Halifax 
said. 
"Last night was pirates theme night [on the ship]." said a female passenger, who declined to give her name. "Today, we're walking the plank." 
Meanwhile, some GOO pas­sengers from the Oceanic were being flown back to Florida from Nassau. 
A recording on Premier's telephone at its Florida head­quarters said the r,ompany had shut down. 
"To our loyal passcngns and customers, we regrnt to inform you that Premier Cruise Lines was forced to suspend operations of all its vessels indefinitely." said the recording. "Our lender has taken possession of the ships pursuant to the ships' mort­
how many 
passengers. 
if any. were aboard the SeaBreew. 
Halifax harbor master Randy Sherman said sonrn of the passengers would remain overnight aboard other ships in the harbor. 
"We're just hoping the pas­sengers would be accommo­dated on the ships and it's my understanding they'll be flying home tomorrow," Sherman said. 
The Rembrandt, which can carry 1,074 passengers, began its cruise in New York. 
Premier Cruise Lines has made regular stops in Ilalifax harbor for several years. 
"They're one of our most frequent callers and we've always had good business with them," said Sherman. who estimates the line has 

VIEWPOINT 
page 18 
THE OBSERVER 
l'.O. Ro, Q, Nom Dam<, IN 46556 024 South Din1ni,; HJII, Nom Dame, IN 46556 
EmTOR IN CHIIW Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EmroR  8USl!'IESS MANAGER  
Norem Gillespie  Tim Lane  
Awr. MANAGING EDITOR  Orf.RATIONS MANAGER  
Chri,cinc Kraly  Brian Kessler  

N~:ws EorrOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VffWN>INT EnnoR, Lil~ l IJughey 
SroRTS Ell!TOR: Krrry S111i1h 
ScENf'. EtllTOlt: Atnanda Greco SA!Nr MARY'S EnrroR, Molly McVoy 
PllOTO EDITOR: Elizalmh Lang 
AIWEl!TISING MANAGER: P.u Peters An Dl'SIGN MANAG1'R: Chris Avila 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike (;unville 
w,m ADMINJ~'TRATOR, AJam Tmner 
CONTROi.i.ER: Boh Wood~ 
GMrlllCS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT US 
OFFICE MANA<;F.RIGFNERAI INFO............6:'\l -7471 f,'.X. .. ............................631-6927 ADVERTISING .. ..................................63 !-6900/8840 
observcr0')darwin.cc.nd.edu Enno1t IN Clllff........................................ 631-4542 MANAGIN<; ED!TtlR/AsST. ME"'... .............631-4';4! BIISlNE.SS OrncF. ........................................ 631-5313 NEWS.................................. ·····················63!-5-323 
obscrvcr.ohsnews, l@nd.edu 
VtEWr<JINT.................................... .............631-'i303 
ohservcr.viewpoint. I@nd.edu SroRTs........................................................631-4543 uhserver.sports. l@nd.edu 
Ser.NL ....................................................... 631-4540 obscrvcr.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S... ............. ·················... , .. 631 ·4324 ohscrvcr.smc. l@nd.cJu l'IIOTO..............................................., .•......631-8767 
SYSTf.MS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS..•.......•.•....631-88.'l<J 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Vi,it our Web sire ac lmp:llob,erver.11d.tdu for daily up,btes ofc1mpus ntws, sports, tc,wues and opinion columns, ~swell as cannons, reviews and breaking news from the As.sociaced Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up·to•th,· 
weekly studem reviews
min~1le fon:casts 
advertise for policies 
onlinc features for spe· 
cial campus coverage
and rates of print ads 
archives to sc:trch l<>r 
about The Observer 
anicb published after 
w meet the editors and 
AuguM !'J')') 
StJff 
POLICIES 
Tl1e Observer is the i11dependcm, daily new,paper puhlishnl in print and on line by rhc slltdents of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial rnnlt'lll, including advrrrisemems, is nm govm1,xl by policies of the aJministrarion of eitltcr 111,ritution. Tlie O1-iserver reserves tlic right ro refuse advertisc.-nwncs based on content. 
The news i., reported as accurately and objecrivtly as possihk. Umigned editorials repre.sem rhe opinion of the rn.ijoriry of the Editor in C:hi,{ Managing Editor, A,sistam M.maging Edi1or .rnd dcpartme111 editors. Commentaries, lerccrs and columns present the views of the ,ntthors and 1101 necessarily those of The ()bserver. 
Viewpninr space is available to all readers. The free cxprtssio11 ofall opinions through letters is encuuraged. L<"rtas m the Edirm musr be signed and must include c:om,Kt informati0n. 
l)111'<11om rrg11rdi11g ()f,;,n;er policir, should bl' direct· ,d m J:d,1nr ;,, Ch1rfM1kr Co,mollr. 

osstRvER Friday, September 15, 2000 
ROTC justified by need for just leaders 
Honorable and righteous leaders with aggressors. a thorough understanding ofjustice and The temptation, however, to bPcome human dignity are imperativ<J for a mili­the aggressor and misuse military power tary to operate in a proper is great. Only manner. The ROTC stu· moral and ethical
Offhe

dents at Notre Dame oflicers can resist
userver 

receive an education not the urge to repress only in military conduct the defenseless. and strategy but also in With required C:atholic llmology and semesters in both
Editorial 
moral philc,sophy. 
Ttwreforn, ollicors with strong moral character, such as those from the NotrP Dame ROTC program, am crucial for the United States military to continue to pro• wet the weak and defenseless. Peacekeeping missions in Kosovo and Somalia promote Christian values by protecting the poor and weak from 
philosophy and theology, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's graduates have heen exposed to moral and ethical teachings to guide their lives. 
Unfortunately, the United States mili­tary does not always act ethically and morally. Some point to the problems with the U.S. military and call for Notre Dame to remove ROTC l'rom campus. These p1~ople, while well-intontiorwd, are lak­ing the wrong approach to the moral dilemna of the military. 
The occasional moral failures or the military only increase the trn(1d for ethi­cal leaders in the military. Notre Dame ROTC graduates can provide the moral leadership the military rnwds. 
To ensure the students graduating from the Notre Dame ROTC program have a solid understanding of Catholic ethics and moral teachings, all HOTC stu­dents should be rnquirnd to take a class in just war theory. Classos such as Father Michael Baxter's War, Law and Ethics can provide HOTC students with an even greater understanding of thn complex moral issw1s they will face in tho line of duty. 
Combating prejudice in our daily lives 
Something has been weighing on my mind recently. 
The other day I g()t into a heated argu­ment with a friend about a third person. My friend was telling me this person's opinion on a matter and I began to argue that the per­son was wrong and offensive. A few minutes into the debate, my friend told me, ..You just don't like him so you're going,to try to find something wrong with any­thing that he says." 
Of course I stood up for myself', tnlling my friend that I would never do that and that she just didn't sec the offonse in this person's opinion. 
But the more that I thought about it and turned over the opinion in my mind, l realized that my friend had been right; 1had allowed my personal evaluation of this person lo guide my evaluation oi' his opinions. 
Then l read a letter in this very spar,e from a pair of Saint Mary's College stu• dents talking about how they heard their schoolmates (and by association, them• selves) being labeled as ..lnoso" by a Notre Dame student. l wondered how many timf\s -despite having many friends from Saint Mary's and even hav­ing a sister who graduated from there ­I had made the distinction between Notre Dame girls and Saint Mary's girls. Not that I would plac(l one group above the other but that I would assume character• istics based on a stereotype. 
1realized that, amongst my rriends and amongst most of the people who I know have attended thr,se schools, there is a judgment of one or both of these groups that. although it may not be true, has the effect of stigmatizing everyone in the particular group on the first glance. 


THE ONLY CUP.£ 
15 TO DEACTIVATE YOUR INTER.NET CONNECTION. 
Prejudice is something that we all have to live with. Because of the school I attendr.d, people automatically assume characteristics about me that they haw1 assigned to all Domers. Because of where I grew up and the financial situa­tion of my parents, people label me as a spoiled suburban rich kid. While I was attending Notre Dame and living in Keenan Hall, I firmly believed the worst about residents of Zahm. 
l am not saying that my situation is particularly unusual or even lamentcible. Everyone has tv deal with prejudice from pthers and from themselves,aqµutotl1­ers. Prejudice, according to Wc6ster·s New World Dictionary is, "a judgment or opinion formed before the facts _____ are known." 
To say that all Saint Mary's women are "loose" is to ignore the empirical evi­dcncc that I have about my numerous acquaintances and friends· who attended that sd10ol. It is to ignore nverything that I have learned in 2!i years of knowing my older sister. 
To make any of tho stereotypes about Notre Dame women is to ignore the cvi­dence from all of my female friends and acquaintances with whom I attended col­legc. It is to ignore nverything that I know and appreciate about my girl-l'riend. 
. . 1To make any assumptions about,g&ys 
· ·11~\)ffo lived in a dfrtain d<irni11s ttlignofo the friends that I have made from that dorm throughout my college carncr and in the ranks of' the alumni. 
Everyone does this on .-=,,,.--I have always been abln to keep a some level. It is the very open mind about the m,~;or only way to take in {_'lli~~:i!!!!--::: prejudices that ravage our socioty: the volume of people rar,o, snxual orientation, gender that we encounter and religion. But I never consid· in our lifetime. We creel that my scmningly harm-
have to categorize ll"--=-~~!Si', less prejudgments would inf'nct everything that we FWYA:1'Tlrv my objective view of someone·s encounter so that opinion.
.1-..;........,.,,, 

our minds can ·· The answer !'or me (and I process this infor-hope that my friend is reading mation. Because of I~~~~ this) is that I was wrong to judge that, we have to 1,ii~~~t'"l\... someone's opinion by a limited form at least a basic r experiencn of that person. impression of people \; Additionally, I was wrong to allow 
~
before we really get to ~~~;;~~ 
know them. We can only  vl-i  
base that opinion on physi­ -----­ 
cal characteristics or that per·  

son's assodation with a particular social group. 
Thus, l say, some prejudices are not bad. They are, in fact, necessary. The question arisns: When do these preju­dices become something bad? 
They become something bad when we allow this prejudgment to creep into our dealings with people. To not associate with someone because of skin color, social standing or association with a par­ticular group of' other people blinds us to tho possibility of finding in this person the spark that ignites their humanity. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
that experiencn to cloud my ability to 

learn more about him. 
We cannot summarily dismiss people because of characteristics that nquate them with other groups. W11 have to Lake each individual as just that, an individ­ual. That is the only way to overconrn these natural. snap judgments that per· vade both our American society and our college community. 
Matt Loughran is a 1998 graduate of the University. lie currently works for the editorial production department ofa publishing house in Marylancl. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Most men, when they think they are thinking, are merely rearranging lheir prejudices. " 
Knute Rockne Notre Dame head football coach 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Friday, September 15, 2000 BSERVER page 19 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Expanding service projects to our outlying community 
Early in last spring semester, residents of thP­Northnast Neighborhood (the neighborhood adjacent to the southern edge of campus and home to hundreds of Notre Dame students), members of tht> Center for Social Concerns staff and Notre Dame students gathered togf'ther on several occasions to brainstorm possible uses for a vacant building in the neighborhood. A for­mer Goodwill store, the building is located on the cor­ner of Howard and Notre Dame Avenue. Through the conversations, the need for a neighborhood-gathering place became increasingly apparent. As a Goodwill store, the building once provided a place where neigh­lJors met while doin~ their weekly shopping. When Goodwill pulled out of the neighborhood, the neighbors not only lost a store but also a central place to meet. 
The vision that emerged stressed the need to recreate a hospitable gathering place for the neighborhood. The neighbors emphasized the need to create a multi-gener­ational appeal. 
One of the first ideas proposed, as well as tho most popular, was that of a computer learning center. Of the over 6,000 residents in the neighborhood, less than 80 people access the internet more than one time per week. The computers can be used for formal youth tutoring, SAT preparation, job training, additional com­munication with friends and family through e-mail and internet surfing. 
Over the summer months, the project developed fur­ther as we continued to attend tbe Northeast Neighborhood Council Meetings to learn more about the neighborhood and its gifts and needs. We researched information on other university and neighborhood col­laborations. After learning more about the types of pro­grams the neighbors indicated would be beneficial, we contacted community agencies, Notre Dame faculty, staff and students to survey their. potential interest in locating their resources in the building. The response was overwhelmingly positive. People were excited to think creatively about how they could respond to the needs and gifts in the neighborhood through a presence in the building. After compiling the information gath­ered in previous proposals (proposals drafted last semester and this past summer), and with the coopera­tion and suggestions of many persons from and units of the University, all of us then submitted a proposal to the University officers for approval of the use of the building for a community learning center. 
We are excited to share with you that the proposal was approved by the officers late in August, and the Community Learning Center is expected to open at the start of spring semester 2001. In a portion of the 8,000 square-foot space, there will be a gathering area with couches, game tables and refreshments. It will serve to provide an atmosphere for one of the most important activities: conversation and interaction among people. Temporary offices and meeting rooms will allow for neighbors to hold meetings and for community and Notre Dame groups to provide programming opportuni­ties. There will be a space for books and publications as well as a bulletin board to post neighborhood happen­ings and announcements. 
A large portion of the building will be used for a vari­ety of' programming. Saint Joseph's Medical Center will provide healthcare services, education and program­ming. The Gigot Center of the Notre Uame Mendoza College of Business will offer a social entrepreneurship program. There will be tutoring opportunities, SAT/ACT preparation. and a variety of computer classes. Recreation such as aerobic classes, senior walking groups and martial arts will also be available. Art class­es, crafts and dance are some of the many possibilities. 
As Notre Dame students. our most valuable learning experiences are both in and out of the classroom. We already have the formative and growing experience that comes-·from being challenged through the work, but especially through the relationships we have formed with the neighbors and interested community organiza­tions. We write to you today to invite you to join us in this amazing opportunity. Barring any major obstacles, the doors to the Center will be opened on Jan. 15th, 2001 and there is much work to be done in the interim. We will be forming committees and we hope to involve many members of the Notre Dame family in this ven­ture. Without great support and involvement from you, the Notre Dame community, it will not be a success. 
Thus, we hope to combine the gifts with which we have been blessed with the richness and diversity of the neighborhood in order to create a tradition of collabo­ration that will allow us to continue to learn together. We invite you to share your time and to meet your neighbors. 
If you are interested in learning more about the Community Learning Center, please contact the Center for Social Concerns at 1-5293, or, by e-mail at ND.ndcntrsc.1@nd.edu 
John Micek 
Class of 'OJ 

Miggies Clemency 
Class of '03 September 12, 2000 
A call for sensitivity in personal ads 
I am writing in response to a personal in the classified section of the Wednesday, Sept. 13 edition of The Observer. I realize that most of the personals reflect inside jokes among some students or Observer staff. However, there are some inside jokes that are better left unsaid. The ad stated, "I don't drink, but I have no problem taking 
advantage of girls that do." I 
can find humor in that 
I am not only offend­ed as a woman, but specifically as a rape survivor. I was 
intoxicated the night I was raped. Ninety percent of women are intoxicated when they are sex­ually assaulted. Is this classified try­ing to make fun of an area that has forever changed my life? 
I can look at this ad and think, "boys will be boys," it is just guy talk. But 
when does it turn from just talk to actions? Men never 
believe they can play a part in ending sexual assault. Many programs are offered to become more educated on sexual 

assault, programs that very few men attend. Men are the only ones that can stop rape. I hope the person, or the Observer staff member who submitted the personal will rethink their statement and see the harm that it does. It is statements like those that condone rape and do not end it. 
Anonymous September 14, 2000 
GUEST COLUMN 

Redefining the role of the first lady 
WACO, Texas 
They say that behind every successful man there is a good woman. But when it comes to the president of the United States, some feel his wife should be relegated to playing "first hostess." 
At the very least that's an unrealistic expectation. But more seriously, expecting the first lady to be the doting, silent ser-Karen Kalb vant at the side of her husband puts the accomplishments of women back a few decades. 
Forty years after Jackie The Lariat Kennedy was alternately scruti­nized and adored by the press for her every fashion move, the media has done little to take the hope.ful tirst ladies seriously. Remember seeing Hillary plastered on People magazine every time she changed the part in her hair? 
Continuing the tradition of tl1e first lady as a Stepford wife, Family Circle sponsored a cookie bake-off between Laura Bush and Tipper Gore this summer. For two women who hold masters' degrees, this request seemed a bit silly. The chances are slim that we will see a chili cook-o!Tbetween Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush to demonstrate their culinary prowess. 
Laura Bush and Tipper Gore have both publicly worked for charities and causes, and both are working mothers. But each sees her role in the public spotlight quite differently. 
When George W. Bush ran for governor ofTexas in 1994, Laura Bush was clearly reluctant at the prospect of being the first lady ofTexas. In a Texas Monthly inter­view at the time, Skip Hollandsworth reported that "she wasn't going to be one of those wives who are always by their husbands' side. She liked being at home, reading books and taking care oftheir twin daughters." 
One certainly can't get homier than that. But now the Bush's twin daughters are beyond needing maternal attention 24-hours-a-day. Yet six years later Laura Bush has barely budged from her stance. Her causes -chil­dren's reading programs and library support-are no doubt valuable. But by laying low she has severely limit­ed a position of leadership that could have helped accomplish more of her goals for Texas children. 
As the wife of the vice president. Tipper Gore has worked actively for the underprivileged of America, and hasn't backed down. 
During her eight years as second lady, some ofher activities have included serving as special adviser to the Interagency Council on the Homeless, mental health pol­icy adviser to the Interagency Council on the Homeless, as well as mental health policy adviser to the president. Yet she still remains close to her four children and grandson. 
Like the rock star who lives off the pocketbooks of the American public, yet shuns the media, the candidate's wife who denies that her role carries an obligation to the public is fooling herself. 
But it is not always the choice of the first lady to shy away from the spotlight. After Hillary Rodham Clinton's attempts to bring health care reform to the forefront, she was blasted for overstepping her boundaries as first lady. Hillary was instantly stereotyped as power-hungry and cold and as putting career before family. 
How can a presidential wife balance an active career while seeing to the needs of her family? Just ask one of the millions of women who do it everyday. 
It undermines the abilities of the candidates' wives to see them as unable to balance a role as wife and mother with that of an activist. Like politics and scandal, the first lady and the president can scarcely be separated. She should accordingly be allowed to use her role to work for the improvement of American life. A first lady who is not afraid to rock the boat is not a bad thing for America. 
So when it comes to the presidency, let's put the tro­phy wife away. 
This column first appeared in the Baylor University newspaper, The Lariat. on September 14, 2000 and is reprinted here courtesy ofU-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


w E 
ceneN D 
O
THE 

page 20 BSERVER Friday, September 15, 2000 

like college towns across the country, South Bend is teeming with a myriad c from the bars visited by those possessing a discerning palate for fine liq1 



Scene Staff Report 
Thi' following is an all-purpose guidP-to some of the most frequented collegiate hot-spots in South Bend. Scene rnportNs spent long (and some forgotten) hours involvnd in an int,mse invnstigation, requiring thorough testing of mm1u itnms, sturdy trials of gaming machinery and tlrn impti~mentation of' tri,id and true bar bt>havior tactics. The result: A compmhensive listing of what to look for in thn places studr.nts such as yourself' choose to procrastinat(l, socializn and/or engage in the carefree aclivitins typical of our pcor group. Though it is true that this l'eatuni focuses on f'stablishments whose main pur­pose is the µrotforing of alcohol, it is not Lhe intention of Thn Obs11rvnr to in any way advocate alcohol consump­tion by minors, and wn rnmind you to please drink responsibly. 
The Linebacker Lounge 
Commonly known as the 'Backer, this bar -located at the corner of Edison and South Bend Avnnue -is rich with music and drink traditions. Patrons am charged a $] cover foe, which inrludns a free drink ticket. !\lost I.Jar-goers use the ticket for one of the 'Backer's famous Long Island iced teas, then head out on the dance floor, where one is guaranteed to hear Madonna's "Like a Prayer" and Abba's "Dancing Queen" at least one time during the night. 
Careful shoe shoppers should beware. though, as the lloor is a vnritablti sea of leather-staining sludge. The dancing is good. if you're into an eclectic mix of '80s and '<JOs and don't mind the intense heat and sticky floor. 
Tables surround the small dance area and non­swingers can feast on cheap drinks and popcorn. There's little recreation to offer visitors, save the one pool table for billiards lovers and one board for dart 
On any night, you'rn almost always guaranteed to see at least one of the following: a) a wedding reception aft11r-party, where the bride is oblivious io the newly­stained bottom of' her white dress; b) random Notre Dame coaches or trainers -of any/all sports; or c) drunken alumni. 
The bar closes out each night by playing the Victory March, a tradition that in iL<;elf makes it a great stop -at least once before you graduate -for any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student. 
Alumni-Senior Club 
Alumni-Senior bar provides the service and atmos­plmre that one can find at many of the off-campus estab­lishments. But there is one thing that this bar offers that none can. A<; most of you alrnady know. and you proba­bly figured it out. this bar is on campus. 
Located south of the stadium, Alumni-Senior bar is the only bar that is completely run by students. They arc the bouncers at the door, they decide the music, they even make your drink. 
The appeal of Alumni-Senior Bar is part location, part atmosphere and part the one-time cover that one pays to become a member. 
A<; m1mtioned, the bar is here on Notre Dame's campus. This is convenient since you'll never have to flag a taxi tu get thore. How much time does one spnnd oulsidfl of the bar when it closes waiting for the taxi to arrive? Since you don't have to worry about the taxi tactor. you save money, save time and you don't run the risk of climbing into the taxi with 10 other people and a deranged driver who has quite possibly consumed more alcohol that evening than you and your friends combined. 
And the lifetime membership is definitely a nice perk. Twenty dollars will buy you a membership and a nice little card as proof. It's the only cover you'll have to shell out to get in the door. 
The atmosphere is great, especially since you know you are surrounded by real kids, not any townies guilefully posing as fellow students. Wednesday nights are the busiest for the bar. Here you can find your classmates, coworkers and some­times, ifyou are very lucky, you can find your TAs. 
Alumni-Senior Bar -great atmosphere, great drinks, great place to hang out with your friends. 
Corby's 
Pilgrims on a quest to retrace the steps of "Rudyff ' 1 will only find disappointment at Corby's. Though the movie portrays the establishment as a traditional Irish pub -complete with fiddles and bodhrans ­none of these things are present. But there is plenty of beer, covering the full range from Bud to Newcastle, so it is easy to recover from "Rudy's" cruel deception. Instead of jigs and reels, you are more likely to hear live rock and roll, though the band/audience interaction is somewhat awkward due to the lack of a stage. The Corby's patron has several gaming options, most notable of which are the relatively inexpensive pool tables and video golf game. But the high point of Corby's has to be the outdoor "biergarten" in back, which provides a wel­
Shadowed by an artist's rendition of the Notre Dame Cathedral In Frano 
come escape from the often stuffy and overheated environment indoors. This is a fantastic place to have a conversation while enjoying your beverage. 
Club23 No one starts a night out at Club23. So why is it that so 
many end up there? "There's no real logic to why we go there," one senior commented as he pondered why Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents actually fill such a dank and paltry little bar every weekend. "I guess it's just that you go where everyone else is going, and for some unexplained reason, people are always going to Club." 
But what is that unexplainAd rea­son? 
Let's talk logistics. It's dark, dirty. kind of smelly and generally resem­bles a human-sized rat hole. Okay, strike one. 
Let's talk proximity. It's really close. Oh, close -loul tip. 
Let's try atmosphere. Club is noto­rious for carding its patrons with a brutal mentality. Consequently, Club has become an ever dependable haven for upperclassmen and grad­uate students who've had their fill of the underclass meat-markets like The Boat Club and Finnigan's. Club has become the prime destination for upperclassman after Senior Har shuts down or Heartland dies out. But again we must ask, why? 
Perhaps it's the Tuesday night drink specials, perhaps the great location -so close to campus. Perhaps it's the mystique of the Club23 basement, where rumors have confirmed such non-duLac permissible activities as hardcore drug use and sexual acts that go far beyond that "which should be saved for the sanctity of marriage." Perhaps it's just a lit­tle of all these things. 
So what if Club isn't exactly aesthetically pleasing. It isn't Club that makes Club so great. It's the people who show up there. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are the reason Club23 is such an Irish institution. So maybe there is no rationale behind why students go to Club. A guaranteed good time is had upon every visit, who wouldn't want to go? 
But just to be safe, let's check in with our slightly con­fused senior just one last time. "Oh yeah, and they also have slushy Long Island iced-teas." And so the truth finally comes out. 
The Boat Club 
For the young at heart, wiih a fondness for cheap beer and cups tour­naments, The Boat Club is for you. Located at the corner of North Hill Street, it's the place to be for late night recreation. With half an inch of sticky beer on tho floor, two hun­dred people 

Enshrined with ND memorabllla, CJ's Is a truE 


w E 
ceneN D 
OTHE Friday, September 15, 2000 BSERVER page 21 

drinking establishments. Here, Scene takes a look at area watering holes, ers, to those frequented by freshmen possessing exceptional printers. 
beer at CJ's with his successes. If the beer at CJ's made the former Irish and Detroit Piston center a championship player, then the burgers would have made him a Hall of Farner. 
While the drinks at CJ's arc OK, the burgers are spectacular. These behemoth mounds of beef can satisfy even the hungriest college student. All the burgers come with chips, but you can get all the fresh popcorn you want from the self-serve popper. 
Tf you are really hungry, a side of french fries might be in order. But be warned -one order of fries is more than enough for two people. 
Wash your meal down with a Bill Lambier-inspir­ing beer. ½1tile there are very few beers on tap, CJ's does feature many bottled selections. Drinks at CJ's are expensive, however. While CJ's is a great place to kick off a night of bar hopping with dinner and some drinks, spending the whole evening there will quickly drain your wallet. 
If you really want the complete CJ's experience, go for dinner on Wednesday and then stick around for Karaoke. Watching a horde of Belles and Domers belting out the hits with a little bit of alco­hol-induced musical talent is always a recipe for a good time. 
Coach's 
From the pool tables to the caged basketball hoop, Coach's is a true sports bar. A popular spot for non-ticket holders to watch Saturday's game, it's a place to relax, rewind and talk about the 
.,day's best tackles. Unlike many of the bars and clubs around town, Coach's is a great place to drink and eat. From burgers to wings, it's the perfect site to sit back and chow as the latest college football game plays out on the big screens. 
The bar has a small, understated dance floor, where little to no dancing usually takes place. Only when the bar is jam-packed -usually Friday nights -does the floor transform into a dance floor. A few dartboards and arcade games line the wall for the kid in you, and long tables allow for bigger groups to join in the revelry. 
MARY CALASH/The Observer It's probably the most popular 

students partake of the festivities offered at an area hangout. 
packed into a room meant to hold one hundred and the latest top 40 music blaring from the DJ booth, your first year of studies and memories of freshman dorm parties may come flooding back to you. 
Looking for someone to dance Vliith to the latest Britney Spears anthem? Try the second floor. (Note: watch out for flying pitchers of Keystone Light.) However, if you're not much for dancing, have no fear. The Boat Club offers an array of billiard tables and video games for those who just want to kick back and unwind with their friends on the first floor. If you'd like to make new friends, The Boat Club provides the perfect ambiance in which to do so ­especially if you'd like to befriend some of the "local" attractions. 
For all that The Boat Club provides, you'd think there'd 

be a high price of admission. As if! For only five bucks, all of this can be yours for an evening. So give The Boat Club a try. You may just develop a taste for Keystone Light. 
CJ'S 

From the photos and signatures of countless Irish ath­letes on the wall, to the Golden Domer burger on the menu, CJ's Pub overflo,,·s with Notre Dame spir­it. 
A signed picture on the wall from Bill Lambier credits the post-game bar, flooded with rival 
fans during home football week­
ends. Usually more of a low-key night of cheap pitchers and good con­versation, home Saturdays turn the bar into a veritable debating floor, where Domer fans and enemy lovers can have free-reign shouting matches. It's then to be a loud and proud Irish fan. 
Finnigan's 
While Finnigan's has become a Thursday night favorite for those of legal drinking age in South Bend. The beauty of this downtown bar is that it provides better-than-average weekend entertainment, as well. Unlike the sweaty freshman crowd at The Boat Club and the unattainable fortresses of Heartland and Club 23. Finny's (as it is affectionately known) is easily accessi­ble for those with a decent ID and a five to shove at the bouncer. 
The popularity of Finnigan's is boost­ed by the rumors of "hey, it's owned by a cop -it'll never get busted!" Regardless of the truth behind the con­fidence, Finny's has occasionally been known to turn awav or double-card on busy nights, thus· giving it an edge above The BC (where you can easily slip through the back door without any­one noticing). 
The Finny's crowd is guaranteed to show you a good time. After filling up a pitcher (or using your feminine wiles to obtain quality drinks) the packed dance floor ofters music that i<.; just loud and varied enough to please. For those with two left feet -or those who just need a break by this point in the night -there arc plenty of places to sit aside and talk, including an upper balcony. 
Finny's always offers a wide range of folks to talk to, from the athletes hanging out in their corner, to the sketchy townies making eyes on the dance floor, to the 40 year old podiatrist who is always hanging around the bar. (No, I'm not making this up: go find him this week­end.) 
Finnigan's is popular with all sorts of students, so you're guaranteed to run into familiar faces. The DJ always plays your requests, the drinks are cheap and the atmosphere is always lively. So when looking for a good time in the party town of South Bend, Finny's can't be beat any day of the week. 
Heartland 

Heartland is for neither the faint of heart or hearing. The large dance chili is a popular Thursday night stop for the best movers and shakers. 
Black pants and tube tops flourish, as does the sweat of energetic patrons heating up the dance floor. The 1,000­plus crowd that inundates the club floods every inch of the building, from the dance floor to the second-floor bil­liards area. Drinks tend to be expensive, so it's best to watch your wallet and purchase wisely. 
Looking for a quiet night of coffee talk and conversa­tion? Stay away from Heartland. The club literally pulses with the latest pop, club and techno music and it's easy to get lost in the wave of bump-and-grinders. 
The club is best for outgoing swingers -people who like to get out and get down. The more ambitious ones can find their moment of glory in one of the club's cages, set up for the most enthusiastic patrons to strut their 
·; stuff. "Club ear" and tired legs are a common aftertaste of a Heartland night, and are best overcome with some good sleep. Best advice: Get your homework done and set your alarm for the next morning before you go out. You'll be too tired and too hearing-impaired to make any impor­tant decisions. 
Tim Bodony, Jacqueline Browder, Mike Connolly, Jose Cuellar, Sam Derheimer, Amanda Greco, Laura Kelly and Christine Kraly contributed to this report. 
-

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 15, 2000 
Gold 
continued from µage 40 
against," l'awlos-ki said. 
Fisher is clearly looking for­ward to Sunday's game. "We want to get them back for la.sl year, and I think we have the talent to beat them," said Marrs. "If we stick lo our offense and lnave it all on the field. we·11 be tough to beat." he said. 
The Juggs know just how diJ­t'icult Sunday's game will bn. "Fishr.r was tlw toughest oppo­nent wn facnd all ynar, and I don't see how it'll be different this year," Pawloski said. 
However, the defending intcr­h all champions arc <~onfidcnt they can beat Fisher. "We can hurt teams anywhere offense, dcfr.nsc, it doesn't mat­tor," Pawloski said. "We'rr, just so deep and versatile. We have so many options available that it's hard for teams to prepare for us. much less beat us." 
Zahm vs. St. Edwards 
AnoLher chapter in what is widely known as the longest and most bitter of all dorm rivalries will be written this Sunday at 2 p.m. on the Stepan field. 
St. Edwards llall hopes to reverse its football fortunes against neighboring Zahm Hall in a key opening day match-up. 
St. Ed's is optimistic about an offense that returns veteran players at all key skill positions. Led by running back Ernesto Lacayo and pla.ymaking wide receiver Nick Sciola. the offense has the potnntia! to score points in bursl'>. 
The quarterback position, which was a question mark last year. is now solidified under the leadership of Tim Greene, who threw for four touchdowns in the team's final three games last year. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Defensively. linebackers Mike Garafola and Jason Davila anr,hor a relatively young unit. The defense will play a key role in the StedsmenOs success this year Two of their losses last season were by a single point. 
On the other side of the field, Zahm Hall will look to improve on last year's disappointing lin­ish. Expectations are high as quarterback Dan Burke and rr.ccivers Brian Zant and Joe S,u-nz return from last year's squad. 
But the key to the team's prosperity might lie in the suc­cess of freshman running back Lawrenre Santiago. A defense which features Defensive Lineman Peter Countryman and Linrbacker Gabe Ibanez might cause concern for the St. Ed's oll'ensivf" attack. 
Not traditionally known as an interhall powerhouse. St. Ed ·s doesn't have history on its side as il tries to muster il'l !irst win in recent memory. Even Greene is cautious about predicting success. 
"We'll have eleven guys out there on Sunday and just go from there," he said. 
Even so, emotions should be high for this opening day batlle. 
"Thev haven't really fielded a team the past couple of years, so I can't say there's much hate between us," said Zant. 
Carroll vs. Siegfried 
The Bears vs. the Packers. Army vs. Navy. Notre Dame vs. Boston College. 
Carroll vs. Siegfried? 
Although their rivalry is a bit short on tradition, this match­up promises to be a game of intensity and ferocity, as both squads are hungry for an open­ing day victory. 
When· they hit Stepan Field at I p.m. this Sunday, Siegfried will aim to build upon their momentum from last season, a campaign that found them only one win shy of the champi-

JEFF HSU!The Observer 

A member of the 1999 Fisher hall squad runs the ball during the regular season. The 2000 Green Wave takes on defending champion Knott Sunday. 
onship game. Carroll, who did and ortcn. in action in 2000 with a young not field a team in 1999, hopes "Wfl're going to play hard and and enthusiastic team. Lr,d by that their rejuvenated program surprise some people," predict­sophomore captains Geoff Polk, can start fast with a strong ed Plumby. a linebacker, and Kevin showing this weekend. · The Ramblers will be intro­Thomas. a safety. Carroll hopes 
The Siegfried Ramblers, led ducing some significant changes to be spearheaded by a big-play by captains Rob Plumby, Travis to their 2000 game plan, includ­offense and a commanding Smith, and Peter Aguiar, return ing the institution of a new defense. Like Siegfried, they twelve players from last year's offensive system. However, plan to experiment with a vari­team. Along with a dozen new don't expect any slow starts on ety of offensive schemes. recruits, the team plans on either side of the ball. Captain GeolT Polk recognizes employing a variety of styles The defense has more size that the Vermin is a bit unac­and tactics in their clash with and aggressiveness than last customed to the interhall grid­Carroll. year's team, said Travis Smith. iron, but he sees their young 
Siegfried boasts a veteran As for the offense, Siegfried lineup as a positive. core of skill position players looks for dynamic play that "We won't bfl losing any play­who will enable the offense to will fuel them on their quest ers next year, and we've got a "do a little bit of everything," to avenge last year's finals loss lot of good young guys," said according to junior quarterback to Sorin. Polk. Rob Plumby. He. along with "The Ramblers will be as As for thr.ir prospeclc; against Smith, a running back. and tough or tougher than last Siegfried, he anticipates an Aguiar, a flanker, intend to mix year," said Smith. exciting but unpredictable up their ground game with an The Vermin of Carroll Hall, game. explosive air attack that will following a one-season hiatus "We'll find out on Sunday," light up the scoreboard early from interhall football. is back Polk said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 li.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
2 ND/USC Tix+ Aifrare  SPRINGBREAK 2001  EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP- High quality kegerator. Bought in  "Only two things are infinite.  
GOTO alumni.nd.edu/-ndc_stax  Hiring On-Campus Reps  MENT CENTER PAID &VOLUN­ '98 for 1k. Asking $600 (can be split  the universe and human stupidity,  
TICKETS  I need 10 tickets for Purdue  SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH, GO FREE!!!  TEER OPPORTUNITIES Earn money and build resume  amongst roommates &later resold to underclassmen)  and I'm not sure about the former." -Einstien to the SinNott  
I need 3 Purdue (ICkeis please call  Please Call  Student Travel Services  experience while interacting with  312-952-2540 leave v-mail  
274-0829  "El Indio" al  America's #1 Student  delightful young children. The Early  Sorry for falling asleep in class.  
247-9849  Tour Operator  Childhood Development Centers at  94 Mitsubishi Galan!  
WANTED ND FOOTBALL TKTS  Jamaica, Mexico,  Saint Mary's College and the  Black/ Sunroof/ 195K  Thanks for waking me up, Holly.  
289-9280  Bahamas, Europe, Florida  University of Notre Dame are cur­ $2350  
 
SELLING ND FOOTBALL TICTS  FOR RENT  1-800-648-4849 www.gospringbreak.com  renlly accepting applications from college students for part time  Call (219) 634-1983  zzzzzzzzzzzzzzz  
251-1570  employment positions. At ECOC- Gotta love those 5:45 a.m. morn- 
VICTORY TKTS  8&8 lodging In alumni home for ND games. (219) 243-2628  WINTER BAEAK SPRING BREAK  ND. the two openings are for TTh 7:30-8:30 a.m. and TTh 11:15 a.m.  LOST & FOUND  ings. What decent human being does this?  
BUY-SELL•TRADE  or garyb@mvillage.com  Ski & Beach trips  -1:30 p.m. At ECDC-SMC, the  
ND FOOTBALL  on sale now!  opening is for F 12:30-1 :30 p.m. If  LOST IN EITHER LAFORTUNE  Yay SMC Observer office! Opening  
232-0964  ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE  www.sunchase.com  you are interested in applying,  OR NOH:  soon.  
www.victorytickets.com  AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS  or call 1-800-SUNCHASE TOO A YI  please contact Kari Alford, Program  wallet with credit cards and idenlifi­ 
http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/  Director at ECOC-SMC, at 284­ cation. If found, call Lori x3874 - Molly ­we gotta plan.  
BUY/SELL NO TICKETS  email:mmmrentals@aol.com  SOCCER & VOLLEYBALL  4694, or Thayer Kramer, Program  REWARD IF FOUND  
273-3911  232-2595  REFEREES  Director at SCOC-ND, at 631-3344,  One week Iii BNL.  
needed for south side  for more information and an appli- 
NO FOOTBALL TIX WANTED A.M. ­232-2378  That Pretty Place, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space  elementary school, located near  cation. The Early Childhood Development  PERSONAL  That's my life in a nutshell.  
P.M. ­286-2726  available for foolbalVparent  Scottsdale Mall  Centers are also looking for volun- Hey Boo! Hang in there honey!  
wknds.  on Miami Street.  leers who en,oy young children. If  WANT TO BRING YOUR HORSE  
- NO FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE A.M. -232-2378  5 Rooms with private baths, $80-$115, Middlebury,  $20.00 per soccer game: $16 oo per VB match  you would be interested in spending 2 hours a week reading children's  TO SCHOOL? SAGEBRUSH STABLES IS THE  What's Kerry's favorite number? 13.  
P M. ­288-2726  30 miles from campus.  to qualified refs.  books, building with blocks, and  PLACE.  What's Noah's favorite number?  
Toll Road. Exit #107,  Call 291-4200  singing songs with children, please  JUST 25 MINUTES FROM NOTRE  90210.  
BUY/SELL N.D. FOOTBALL TIX.  1-800-418-9487.  contact ECDC-ND at 631·3344 or  DAME.  
HOME&AWAY  Looking for 1 O  ECOC-SMC at 284-4693.  INDOOR RIDING ARENA  Matty B, Sean, Dave, Pierre and  
(219) 289-8048  I have 5 bedrooms for  enterprising students  LIGHTED OUTDOOR ARENA  Bien · who could ask for a better  
NO STUDENT CONVERSION T!X  rent in my nicely-decorated  for pan time  SECURED TACK ROOM  weekend?  
NEEDED  private home for Football week· ends; less lhan 2 miles north of sta­ computer work. Earn up to  NOTICES  FLEXIBLE RIDING HOURS CLEAN SAFE ENVIRONMENT  yeah but they can only stick around  
MSU vs. ND football lickets bought  dium, continental brkfst included.  $4,000/mo. 1  FAMILY OWNED  until ·1:30  
apd sold (219) 289-8048  Many happy repeat customers!  ·888-304-0414  SKYDIVE!!  SAGEBRUSH STABLES  
Need GA's: 4 Stanford, 2AF, 2BC Chris 634-4751  Call Kim 277-8340. Female seeking female roommate.  LV. Msg. 2 people needed  Training Students for 35 Years 1 Hour North of South Bend GREAT LAKES SKYD!VERS, INC.  BOARDING LESSONS HORSE­BACK RIDING 55251 SAGE Rd.  Gotta love those "personal parietals"  
Beeley.1@nd.edu  285 mo. Incl utilities & cable. No  to provide dependable  1-800-351-6617  219-232-3361  Dorm livin' is the life for me ...  
pets, parties, or drugs.  child care tor  
Football Tickets For Sate:  289-7129  church Bible study.  Come and talk with Prof. Jonathan  Matt • hope the trip up wasn't too  
(Reserved Sealing) 2 for Purdue: 2 for Standford  TWO (2) AOOMS IN MARRIOTT  Thursday ams 9·10:30.  FOR SALE  Boulton about  long -­I know you were just dying in anticipation and all ...  
Call (513)-604-4877  COURTYARD MOTEL IN SOUTH  Own transportation preferred but  HERALDRY  
BEND AVAILABLE FOR PURDUE  will discuss.  92 Dodge Spirit 4 cyl ­auto ­ O'Hare or Bust!  
2 PU GA TIX FOR SALE  WEEKEND. CALL K. McCANN AT  $15/person.  cruise low mileage ­top condition  Wed., Sept.20. 5-6 pm  
CALL SEAN 634-1454  1 -41 5-646-7 535  Julie 44746.  246-9784  in 126 Debar1olo  Hello Jose. Goodbye.  


f<riday, September 15, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
PGA TOUR 
Unknowns take advantage of Tour leaders' absences in Classic 
Calcavecchia topped a nine-player group four holes. at 68. "You have to think your way around 
Briggs, who started on No. 10, birdied this golf course," Roberl'i said. "You have four of the last five holes. After he made a to know where to miss the ball. It's a real birdie putt on No. 8, a spectator shouted, thinking man's golf course. It might be "Tiger Who?" one of the best. new golf courses I've seen 
Tiger Woods, Phil Mickelson and Ernie in a while." Els head the list of no-shows that indudes Doug Dunakey, Jonathan Kaye, Carlos the tour's top seven money-winners. Franco, Chris DiMarco, Dudley Hart, Tom Aubrey is 194th and Briggs 196th on the Purtzer, Kelly Gibson and Mike Sposa list. joined Calcavecchia at 68. 
'There's times that you think, 'You "I never check to see if people on the know what man, I've had enough of this, world rankings play here," Pranco said. traveling and hotels and airplanes being "For me, it is important to play the tour­delayed."' Briggs said. "I have tried to nament and take a couple months off." 
have a good attitude  Aubrey, who missed  
and confidence. If it goes the other direc­tion, I'll still try to  "You have to think your way around this golf  much of last year with a back injury, got a med­ical exemption this  
have a good attitude  course. You have to know  year.  
and be confident and continue to do what­ever." Aubrey, who also has never won a PGA  where to miss the ball. It's a real thinking man's golf course. "  His road to recoverv has been a long, ardu·­ous process. "It was a lot more dif­ficult than I thought,"  
Tour event, had six birdies in a bogey-free round. He missed  Loren Roberts professional golfer  Aubrey said. "I felt like the physical side was ready to go after a  
short putts for birdie  week or two. You have  
on the 16th and 17th  several weeks where  

holes. you play bad and then' you're mind starts 
"Seems like I've been missing the cuts losing confidence and you 're struggling by one shot lately," said Aubrey, who that way. That's what I did the first half of was born in Reading, Pa. the year." 
"Fortunately the last couple weeks I Grant Waite, who finished second the made them. Last two tournaments in last two weeks, tops a Canada (Bell Canadian Open and Air 13-player group at 69, Divots: Arnold Canada Championship), I made birdies Palmer, a native of Latrobe, Pa., was on the last hole Friday to make the cut. influential in bringing the PGA Tour bar,k Ilopefully things are turning around." to Pennsylvania. "Pennsylvania has had 
Roberts, who has won seven PGA Tour some great golf tournaments. and I've events, including this year's Greater had the opportunity to participate in Milwaukee Open, birdied the final two them, and I think it was just very bad that holes to finish at 67. He double-bogeyed we didn't have and do not have until this No. 11 after a birdie on No. 10. week a tournament here that is a PGA 
Lickliter, 105th on the money list, had Tour event," Palmer said. 

-2 Bdrm Apts ~vailable -·student Leases Available, ~. Uader $500 per Morath 
.. 4:FJ1ockS· Fr~lll Ca111pus 

-2ifl<l SeQ)e.st~t Av~,f:!~bility 
·--.. , .. :· :-··,':':·C::":, , -, ·:•: , . 
Best Valueln 0#.Camjfus Lifting" 
. . ~J9f.esstt>1Jally ~ijo~g~s;e.Y. . 
R9al Estate ManaeJemenftorp, 
234-99~3 



Bflflfle;~1,111e elfflronment. Please recycle Ifie Observer. 
Associated Press 
PAOLI, Pa. 

With most of the big names sitting this one out, a pair of relative unknowns topped the \eaderboard in the first SEI Pennsylvania Classk. 
Emlyn Aubrey and Dunny Briggs shot 6­under-par 65s on Thursday to share the f'irst-round lead in the first PGA Tour event in Pennsylvania in 20 years. 
"I didn't have a lot of expectation as far as what I was going to shoot," said Briggs, who has never won a PGA Tour event. "I never look at the scoreboard. I never even looked at the guy that was carrying in our group to see how many under I was." 
Loren Roberts and Frank Licklitflr opened with 67s on the Waynesborough Country Club course, and Mark 
§gdneg lOOO@TMmerchandise! 
Start earning points with the!ie great !ielectiorni! 
The hcky llorror 
Picture SbGW 

To celebffie tha.~.\ . .·· ................. ·... > 
we~e partnered up .witb Sylney 2000.~.l 
The OffidalVide .the 
The Whole Nine Vaid$ Olwe The Other Reindeer 

.·· for Oljmpiti fwan 
Here's How It Works: You earn one point for every dollar you spend on our site for product that 
ships between August 22 and ending October 131ietsiur«dtw~) 
Go for GOLD by earning 300 points and you'll qualify for afree copy of the PC version of Sydney 2000: The Official Video Game of The Olympic Games 
ze 
hat! 
Earn 100 points for tb~ bronze medal afree PC demo of Sydney 2000: BRONZ The Official Vilteo Game of tfle Olympic Game~ 


page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 15, 2000 
____:===~========================================================================================= 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Lopez leads Atlanta in rally over Florida, 5-3 
Associated Press 
ATLA'.'JTA 
.lavy Lopez broke out of a 2­ror-26 slump with a pair of run-scoring sing!Bs and lhc Atlanta Bravi•s rallit\d to beat thn Florida Marlins 5-3. 
i\11dy Ashby 110-12) gave up a two-run singlt! in the first to Miki• Lowell, then lwld Florida s co n-1 css u n t iI tlw e ig h t h inning. 
Atlanta. which began tho day with n two-game ]pad over sec­ond-place Nnw York in the NL East, won its second straight and complPWd a 6-3 homes­tand. 
Ashbv, (,-S since the Braves acqui,:nd him from J>hilacldphia on July 12, allowPd thrnfi runs and night hits in 7 2-3 innings. 
.John Bocker, Atlanta's third pilch!'r, walked his first batter on four pitehes leading off the ninth. then struck out the side for his 21st save in 23 chances. 
l.opPz, who went 2-for-3 with a walk, singlnd off Reid Corneliui:; (3-9) !'or a 3-2 lead in tlw sixth al't,~r Wally .Joyner walkt•d and Brian .Jordan sin­gled. 
Keith Lockhart. who also drove in two runs, followed with a sacrilicP 11y. 
Chipper Jones singled off Hickv Bones with two outs in the s,•v1111th, stole second and scored on a single by Andres Galarraga to make it 5-2. 
l'rt>sto11 Wilson's HBl double chased Ashby in the eighth. 
Corirnlius (:{-9) dropped to 0­7 in 12 starts since bnaling Montreal on July 2, giving up four runs and night hits in 5 2­:~ innings. 
l.opPz and Lockhart hit run­scoring singles that tied the game in thn f'ourth. 
Mets 10, Expos 4 
Edgardo Alfonzo. Hobin 

thP first off Mike Thurman (4· 
6) to reach 20 homers for the second straight S(iason. 
Ventura. in a 2-l'or-31 slump bel'orn his game-tying double in the ninth W"dnesday, hit a three-run drive on Sean Sp1rncer's first pitch in the sev­enth. 
Payton, who hit a three-run, game-winning homer in the llHh on Wednesday. added a two-run homer in the seventh. 
New York has won four of live. including three in a row, after losing seven of eight. 
Thurman allowed nine hits and sev(in runs -five earned -and nine hits in 6 1-3 innings. 
After Alfonzo's homer put the Mets ahead 1-0 in the first, Fernando Scguignol's RBI dou­ble tied it in the bottom half and Vladimir Guerrero fol­lowed with a run-scoring sin­gle. 
Rusch, 2-for-48 at the plate 10421 with no IH3Is in his earner coming in, tied it with a run-scoring single and Derek Bell dre-w a bases-loaded walk for a 3-2 lead. New York added a pair of runs in the third on Payton's sacrifice fly and Mike Bordick's RBI single. 
Wilton Guerrero hit an RBI singlo in tlrn fourth as Montreal closed to 5-3. and the Mets blew open the game with five runs in the seventh. 
.Jose Vidro hit an BBi single in thP eighth. 
Reds 6, Brewers 4 
Geoff .Jenkins and Lou Collier homered as thP Milwaukee Brewers beat the Cincinnati Reds. 
Collier, whose only previous homer this season had been for Double-A Huntsville, hit a solo shot in the fourth inning off Ron Villone (9-10). After Mark 
Ventura and Jay Payton home-.---------------, red as the Nl'w York Mets beat Houses for Rent 
l BR HOUSES tlrn Montreal Expos and 115 N.Waluuts4951Mth remained two games behind l2l0 Cedar St. S450/Mth Atlanta, the NI. East lt•ader. 2 BEDROOM HOUSES CIPndon Husch (10-10) 1337Fremont $550/Mth allow1!d eight hits in 7 l-3 l llRAPTS-MISHWAKA innings, hnlping incrnasc the 314 Wells-$100/Wk. Mets' limd to live games over 1-800-328-7368 Arizona in the wild card race. A Division of Culver Development Alf'onzo hit a solo homer in....______________. 
Sophomores & Juniors! 
$CHOLAR$HIP$ AVAILABLE NOW! 
AF ROTC -Producing Leaders for the Air Force and Building better citizens for America 

Loretta singled, Jenkins f'ol­ITI(' corning over here," Roso I.ion for such a long timn." lowed with a two-run horner, said. "That's uplifting, anrl it .Jeff Cirillo, who 11ntcrnd with his 27th of the season, to give makes me want to pitch well." an NL-leading .:-387 average Milwaukee a 6-2 lead. Roso (4-2). who didn't get a with runners in scoring posi­
Jimmy Haynes (12-12) gave decision against the Dodgers tion, capped the Hockies' up solo home runs to Pokey last Saturday despite being three-run f'ourth with an HBI Reese in the second inning and slaked to a (i-0 lead in the first single f'or a 3-l lead against SMn Casey in the fifth. Haynes inning, allowed thrcn runs and Chan llo Park ( 15-101. The allowed four runs on eight hits six hits in six innings this timo. right-hander allowed fivn runs in 3 2-3 innings. He walked "lie really made good pitchos -four earned -and ninn hits two and struck out one. when he had to." Hoekies man­in 5 1/3 innings. 
Curtis Lcskanic pitched the ager Buddy Bell said. "lie got "My control was not there. ninlh !'or his I 0th save in 11 into some situations where he That's the bottom lino," said chances. got in a hole, but was able lo Park, who walked four and 
The Reds took a 1-0 lead in pitch his way out of it. His com­struck out four. "I l'elt my arm the first on an RBI single by mand was much better than it dragging a littln." Dmitri Young, had been the last couple of Alex Cora, in an O-for-20 
Milwaukee answered with times out." drought, did not move as a three runs in the second. Hookie Ben Petrick doubled breaking ball from Hose 
Jeromy Burnitz and Hon home two runs and Jose brushed his right kneecap with Belliard hit consecutive one­.Jimenez pitched the ninth for the bases loadod in the fourth out singles, and Raul Casanova his 21st save in 27 chanees. and forcnd in the Dodgers' snc­walked to load the bases. After allowing runners to reach ond run. 
Villone then walked pitcher second and third with one out, Hose walked toward the plate Haynes, who was batting .127. he allowed an HBI groundnut to complain to umpire Tim scoring Burnitz. Collier's sacri­by pinch-hitter Eric Karros and Welke. So did Bell -but only fice fly scored Belliard, and retired Mark Grudzielannk on a to protect his pitchnr. Loretta doubled in Casanova. grounder. "We had probably the best Villone allowed six runs on Hockics left fielder Todd umpire working hehind the seven hits in four innings. Hollandsworth returned to plate tonight, so I had a hard 
Cincinnati made it 3-2 on Dodger Stadium for the first time saying anything to Tim Reese's 12th homer of the sea­time since the July 31 trade Welke," B"ll said. "That's a son. that sent Tom Goodwin to Los really tough eall for the 
The Reds added a run in the Angeles and went 2-for-4. sin­umpires. but I think they've got fifth on Casey's 15th homer gling his first two times up and to look at that rule over the and a run in the sixth on Juan scoring on Petrick's fourth­winter and try to dncidn on Castro's HBl singlP. inning double. how to enforce it." 
''I've actually never been on The Rockies got that run Rockies 5, Dodgers 4 this side ol' the stadium before, back in the fifth, when Park 
Brian Rose is happy to be so it was weird," llollands­tried to pick Jeffrny Hammonds pitching for a team that wanted worth said. "But I came out off second and his errant throw him before he started winning. early today, just to gPt accli­dnll1icted off tlrn glovn of Cora 

The right-hander, who came mated again. and into right-c1rntPr as to Colorado on July 27 in a "I still have a lot of m11mories Hammonds scornd. seven-player deal that sent of wonderful things that have The Dodg<ffs closed to 4-3 in Mike Lansing to Boston, won happened to me here -and tlrn bottom half on a two-out bis third straight decision as some tough things. But it was single by Shawn Green, who the Rockies beat the Los just a part of my life where I nPeds four HBI to reach 100 for Angeles Dodgers. learned a lot. I enjoyed the the third straight season. 
"When I got here, these guys people I worbid for and Colorado mado it 5-3 in thn told me that they wanted to see worked with, and I'm very ·sixth when Rosti singled for his me go out there and pitch, and appreciating of having been a first major leagun hit and that they were excited about part of the Dodgers organiza-seored on NPili Pcrnz's single. 
Seniors ... 
Do you have questions about life after Notre Dome? Are you wondering what to do next year? 
Join a Senior Transition Group 
~Groups meet 5 times on Sunday evenings throughout: the year to discuss how ND values can be integrated into future careers. ~Prof's from each college, ND staff and Alumni will host the groups 
in their homes. 

E-mail your name, phone number, and address to Shappell.1@nd.edu before Wednesday, Sept. 20 
Co~Sponsored by the Senior Class and the CSC 
Non-competitive Scholarships ­$17,480 annually, are available for select majors for sophomores and 
for ALL juniors! 

Don't waste a moment! Contact Captain Klubeck at 631-4676, 
or Klubeck.1@nd.edu 


Fridq, September 15, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 


page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 15, 2000 
-
AMERICAN LEAGUE Martinez gives Red Sox win over Indians 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND 

PPClro Martinez did it to the Cleveland Indians once again. 
Un boa ten against Clnveland, he allowed four hits in snvcn innings night and Carl Everett had three BBls Thursday night Lo lead the Boston Hed Sox ovr,r the Indians 7-4. 
Martinez (17-5) improved to 7-0 in seven regular-season starts against the Indians. 
lle's also 2-0 against Clovelancl in thf' postseason, and has been brnndnd Public Enemy No. 1 around Jacobs Field. 
Evnrnlt went 4-for-5 with a two-run homer and Dante Bich11tte homered off Charles Nagy 12-5) as the Hed Sox movnd within two games of tlw Indians, who lnml the AL wild card race. 
David Segui hit a two-run honwr and an HBI single for the Indians, who play five games at FP.nway Park next w1wk. including back-to-back dou bl!1 hnad11rs. 
Martinez was making his first appearance at Jacobs Field sincn April 30. when he hit Hobcrto Alomar with a pitch, fHtrning a five-game suspnnsion. 
lie buzzed a couple of' hit­turs. but baseball's best pitcher zeroed in on the strikn zone when he needed to. 
Martinez struck out 10, including the side in the third 
and  seventh,  when  the  
Indians put two  on with  none  
out.  

Dcrnk Lowe got four outs for his Hth save, his second of the series. 
Everett's two-run homer capped Boston's four-run sixth, with the Hed Sox scor­ing all their runs with two outs. 
The Indians had a chance to get out of the inning. but first baseman Jim Thome couldn't come up with Trot Nixon's hard smash. 
The Bed Sox scored their otlwr runs in thP inning on a wild pitch by reliever Justin SpHier and Nomar Garciaparra·s HBI double. 
Sngui's horner in the fiflh gav1~ the Indians their f'irst narnnd runs in 32 1-3 innings 
not allowed Cleveland to 
score since Sept. 15 last sea­
son. a span that includes the 
playoffs. 

Martinez retired the first 13 
hitters so easily. it looked like 
he might be on his way to 
finally pitching the no-hitter 
that has somehow eluded 
him. 

Thome becam<l Cleveland's first runner. drawing Martinez's lone walk before Segui hit his sixth homer since coming to the Indians in a July trade. 
Segui had been 3-for-24 with 11 strikeouts against Martinez before connecting. 
Before the game, Indians managl1r Charlie Manuel said his scouting reports showed thal Martinez hadn't been topping 92 mph on tho radar gun recently. 
"lie mav not be able to blow the bull ·by us like he used lo," Manuel said. 
But Martinez's fastball hit 98 mph several limes in the third. when he needed 16 pitches to fan Travis Fryman, Bussell Branyan and Sanely Alomar. 
Bichette put the Hed Sox ahead 3-0 in lhe fourth with his fourth homer since com­ing to Boston in an Aug. 31 trade from Cincinnati. 
Nagy, making his first start since undergoing elbow surgery in May, fell behind 1­0 in the first when Everett reached on an infield single and Garciaparra followed with a double. 
Everett's wind-blown RBI double made it 2-0 in the third. 
Notes: 

Everett's steal of second in the fifth was just Boston's 39th steal this season. Only Oakland, which has 35, has fewer in the majors.... Indians manager Charlie Manuel was ejected in the seventh inning by third-base umpirn Eric Cooper, who called Jim Thome out on a checked-swing. The Indians added security per­sonnel around the Boston dugout and bullpen in response to Martinez saying he received a death threat while warming up in last year's playoffs.... Martinez has 15 doubln-cligit strikeout games this season. Ile had 19 

dine in/carry-out reservations recommended 
DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND'S FINEST ITALIAN ··-DINING 
OLYMPICS 

Sydney: 'Let the games begin' 
Associated Pm,s 
SYDNEY, Australia 
At the opera house, lhey packed the water's edge and cheered. 
They watched from build­ings, from a docked ocean liner, even from atop tho steel skeleton of the fabled Harbor Rridgc. They oohed and ahhed as the Olympic flame went by. 
Ready to greet the world. Sydneysiders paused at the edge of the Olympics on Thursday night to see their downtown awash in fireworks. an Olympic-rings lighl show and even a big round moon, delivered against a cloudless sky. The collective exhorta­tion: Let the games begin. 
A million people turned cen­tral Sydney into a giant street party to celebrate the arrival of the flame that heralds the opening of the biggest Olympic Games in history. 
"This shows people what we're about -whatever that may be," said a smiling Cloria Garton, pressed up against a barricade wilh her husband Thursday night to see blind Italian opera singer Andrea Bocelli pass the Olympic torch to Australian pop star Olivia 
BOXING 

Tyson talks about Zoloft use 
"That's why I set the pay­per-view records. There are nine million people who see me in the ring who hate my guts, most of them white. But thafs OK. Just spell my name right." 
Tyson showed up more than 2 1/2 hours late for the sched­uled start of the news confer­ence, having missed his night out of Las Vegas. Tho start was rescheduled from noon to 2 p.m., but Tyson still didn't make an appearance until 
2:40. By that time, Golota had answered a few questions and left. 
Tyson was highly agitated, at one point stripping off his shirt and jumping onto the table on tho dais, responding to a question about his condi­tion. 
He also apologized for his almost constant stream of pro­fanity, saying: "This is how I talk. I'm a street person. I 
Newton-John. 
Australian sprinter Molinda Gainsford-Taylor. women's captain of her nation's Olympic team. brought tho torch into the Sydney Opera House grounds at dusk. pass­ing il to Bocelli. 
He held it aloft before thou­sands of cheering people crowded into Bennelong Point, then handed it to a grinning Newton-John. She carried it off into the night on the last leg of its journey toward Olympic Park and Friday's opening ceremony. Then Bocelli sang Verdi's "Di quella pira." 
With the crowd roaring, the Olympic rings that hang from the landmark bridge illuminat­ed as the last sunlight faded, and fireworks shot from the bridge's anchorage. Five heli­copters and the Goodyear Blimp -rechristened the "G'Day Blimp" for the games -hovered overhead. 
"It's all happening," enthuslid Lawrence Nethery of Sydney. "The rings look fan­tastic, but thP moon looks f'Ven better. One of the best things I've ever been lo." 
"A lovely day on the har­bor," said spectator Lorraine Askew. 
never wanted to be a street person; I don't even like thorn. But that's how my life has turned out. 
''I've had a lot of tragedy, humiliation and dogradation." 
lie said he only rr.cently fig­ured out why reportnrs don't like him. 
'Tm so ghetto, I didn't real­ize it's because I'm being paid, not because I'm a black man." he said. "And you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to keep gelling paid." 
Once the undisputed world heavyweight champion, Tyson said he isn't interested in titles now. 
"I don't know anything about being the heavyweight champion, or being a good, respectable person," he said. "I just want them to keep bringing guys on and I'm going to strip tlwm of their h<ialth. I bring pain. a lot of pain." 



Ilalf of the seats outside th1i opera house went to the gen­eral public; the other half went to those attending the Thursday opera program. It creatl1d an odd juxtaposition: On one side, rowdy youths held Australian nags aloft and chanted "Aussie! Aussie!" while opera-goers in formal garb applauded sedately on the other. 
In the crowd on the quay, chants and shouts erupted after a clarinet player in the crowd performed a slow, haunting rendition of "Waltzing Matilda," the unoffi­cial national anthem. 
Afterward, downtown r.rupt­ed into an exuberant festival of happy anticipation. Exuberant fans popped cham­pagnf1, guzzled beer and sipped wine in the streets in a manner bot.h jubilant and ­as befits the Aussie attitude. it seems -mellow. 
Friday's arrival ratcheted the excitement level up several notches. 
Thousands of early risers thronged the Harbor Bridge, many chanting golfer Greg Norman's name as he carried the torch across. Norman said he was overwhelmed by lhc crowd's size and fervor. 

---~---------­
-

friday, September 15, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
NBA 
Smith contract may violate salary cap 
Associ~tcd Press 
MINNEAPOLIS 

.!011 Smith cnuld gel as much as $9:-1 million over 10 years l'rom tho Minnesota Timlrnrwolves under a con­(ract arrangPment the NBA IH'licv1\s violates the salary cap. 
The sncrct deal guaranlflPS Smith thrPe one-vear con­tracts of $1.75 million, $2.1 million and $3.6 million. The New York Times reported Thursday, attributing the fig­urns to "several people" who havP seen the contrad. 
i\lso. ownrr Glcrn Taylor 
agrend to givP Smith two addi lion­a I cont.racts prior to thP 2001-2002 sPason that cumulativdy would be w o r l h bf'tWP('ll $40.6 million and $8(i mil­lion nvnr SPVP n V(\ ars. 
llw nP~spapnr said. 
ThP amount would be dPpnndnnl on performance clausPs. such as whether Smith maclP tlw All-Star team or led the Tirnberwolves Lo a championship. 
TlH1 lt!aguc last week claimnd thn deal violatnd Urn sa[,u,y, 1:ap. und,-senL lhn i:ase Lo arbitrator K1inneth Dam. If Dam confirms a secret dPal. commissionl'r David Stnrn rnuld imposP multimillion-dol­lar fi1ws. loss of draft picks, thn voiriing of player contracts and suspension of team per­sonnel. 
Smith in 19q9 signed a one­year contract for $1.75 mil­lion. a figure which some in the NBA considered low for a 6-l'oot-10 forward who was the first overall pick of the 1995 draft. 
However, Taylor and Smith had earlier made a deal that was nol reported to the league, and it was that arrangement NBA said was for "tens of millions of dollars, and was deliberately hidden." 
Neither Taylor nor Timberwolvcs· vice president 
"This is the most serious salary cap offense that can be committed by teams, players or agents." 
Joel Litvin NBA general counsel 

Kevin McHale returned phone calls on Thursday. 
The NBA said it would have no f'urther comment bee a use the matter is in arbitration. 
Joel Litvin, the NBA's gen­eral counsel, said last week. 
"This is the most serious salary cap offense that can be committed by teams, players or agents." 
Taylor told The Associated Press last week that he met with NBA Stern and told him he thinks the team followed procedures in reaching an agi:.n.ement ""'.i~h ,~-utith on a 
52.35 million, onc-vear deal. 
Smith. selected first overall by Golden State in the 1995 dra['t, awraged 9.9 points and 
6.2 rebounds last season. 
OLYMPICS 

Journal questions hormone use 
Associated Press 
LONDON 
A prestigious science journal says "unscrupulous" athletes will be able to use human growth hormone "with impunity" in the Sydney Olympics and criticizes the IOC for focusing its anti-doping effort on the hormone EPO. 
The article in the Sept. 14 issue of "Nature" also says the International Olympic Committee's two highly publi­cized tests for EPO will catch few cheats. 
Human growth hormone or hGH, which was designed to treat dwarfism, is now used by some athletes to build muscle. In January 1999, a consortium headed bv Peter Sonksen a London endocrinologist, t~ld the IOC it had found a "very credible test" for hGH. 
He said validation studies would cnst about $5 million. which the IOC called too high and declined to fund. 
"Although the scientists 
· 

developing the tests are confi­and one urine. To avoid a dent that thev could have been ''false positive" that could readied in time for Sydney. the results in lawsuits, the IOC will IOC refused to sanction fund­only take action against ath­ing for the necessary valida­letes who fail both tests. tion studies," the journal said. The magazine says few ath­"As a result, unscrupulous ath­letes are likely to fail both. 
letes  know  E  P O  '  s  
that they can  effects start  
abuse hGH with impuni­ty." The maga­ "But few athletes [tak­ing EPOJ are likely to be caught out at the  to decline about three days after its last use.  
zine also found flaws in the  games."  according to Jacques de  
IOC's tests for  Ceaurriz  of  
EPO,  a  hor­ Nature Magazine  the  french  

mone that raises the level of oxygen-carrying red blood cells and is favored by endurance athletes. 
"But few athletes {taking EPO) are likely to be caught out at the games," the article said. "Provided they stop tak­ing EPO a few days before their events, they will probably test negative." 
The IOC's crackdown on EPO involves two tests -one blood National Anti-
Do ping Laboratory near Paris, who helped develop the urine test. EPO is flushed out of the urine within two or three days. 
The magazine notes an ath­lete can take EPO up to a few days before competition and still test negative in a urine sample. Even a positive blood test would not mean punish­ment since the IOC requires two failed tests. 
NFL 

Johnson will play despite injury 
Associated Press 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. 
Bills quarterback Rob Johnson has tendinitis in his right throwing elbow, but it should not prevent him from playing this weekend. 
'Tve had it for a while now. 

LAFUN COFFEEHOUSE 

~~ 
o/~ 

Patoll~ 
.2uaJJ 


9:oo P-~ ­Midnight 

LaFo-rtune &a.\\rooM F~e.e. coffee~ and 




It's just something that I've had 
to deal with," Johnson said on 
Thursday after he was wincing 
and grabbing his arm while 
warming up in practice. 
''I've taken a couple of hits 
on my elbow. I've got some 
scabs around it. It's been a lit­
tle more tender than it has 
been before. But I'll be all 
right." 
Buffalo travels to face the 
New York Jets on Sunday in a 
battle of two 2-0 teams. 
Johnson, the NFL's third­rated quarterback after two games this season, has been ·sacked 10 times and taken heavy hits on numerous other 
occasions. In two games, he's gone 27-for-44 for 360 yards, thrown four touchdowns and one interception. 
"It's not like Favre's but it's similar," said Bills coach Wade Phillips, comparing Johnson to Green Bay quarterback Brett Favre who is also playing with tendinitis in his throwing arm. "It's a nagging type thing that he's gone through especially since he's been here." 
Doug Flutie is still listed as the Bills' third quarterback, not fully recovered from a torn groin muscle he hurt in train­ing camp, while Alex Van Pelt is the team's backup. 

Entry-Level Engineering Opportunities 
The Metropolitan Water Reclaination District of Greater Chicago is one of the largest and most efficient wast.evvoter treatment ~gencies in the 
world. 

The District is seeking qualified individuals in the fields of" Civil, Electrical, Eriv-iro:runental. Mechanical and Structural Engineering. 
Please stop by our booth during the College of 
Engineerine; Career Fair being held on September 2oc1> and 2 l 5 1 and talk with members 
o:r  our  Engineering  and  Human  Resou.rces  
Departments  abot.lt  exciting  and  rewarding  
career  civil  service  opportunities  with  the  

Districi and to arz-ange lt1'\ interview. The District will be conductin,i interview-s on Septernbc:r 21st_ A copy of your cQllege transcript and ,esuxnc are requc:stcd. 
All positions are located in the Chicag.o metro area at one 0£ our seven treatment plants oc-at our main offi~e located just we.st of" Michigan 
Ave. If you are unable to attend the Career D~y please call us at (312) 751-!HOO or visit our website at www.m~dgc.dst.il.us. 
An Equ.al Opportunity Employer M/F/D 
... 
_,. 
._ 



Friday, September 15, 2000 


novelties and much more! 
Where...? 

Located at: 
CUVRANl> 
LOGAN CENTER 
1235 N. Eddy, 
lC 
South Bend IN

. ! · Universifv of LOGIN CENTER
:!I C: .., 
Right across from Notre Dame Stadium entrance on the corner of 
Eddy & Angela 

When...? 
ND vs. PurdueWeekend 
Days open  Time open  
Thursday  10-6  
Friday  9-7  
Saturday  7:30-6  
Sunday  10-2  

Who...? 
Guest Signings 
""!"!. 

Have your photo taken with Tony Rice, Austin Carr and Collis Jones. *Plus they will sign your photo and 

otre Dame merchandise. 
*Items must be purchased at Logan 

.. 
page 29

:;riday, September 15, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

¦

The answer IS the peop,_e of Deloitte· & Touche 
Deloitte 
!www. us. deloitte. com!
&Touche 

©2000 Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte & Touche refers to Deloitte & Touche LLP. and related entities. 
qeJoitte & Touche is an equal opportunity firm. We recruit, employ. train, compensate, and promoce without regard t.o race, religion, creed, colQr, national origin, age, gentler, saJC1Jal orientation, marital status, disability,. vateran status or any other basis protected by applicable federal, state or local law. 
. . 
-Castle'Poiot 
Apartme.nts -· · _-­
.-Clevelandand Ironwood Roads/18011 Cleveland Road/South Bend, Indiana 466371 (219)272-BJJO 
New· Castle Point .Sele.ct Unit$ 
. . 

· -· Available for 
•_Next Seinester
!lllr • -• • . . •• -: , 
. . . \ __ ~ .·
··}:· -•.. :_· ··: ,. ~: 
-. : ' . -. . . . 
*W:it~ mi.nut~-~ of campus* 
. • Renovated; sp·acious ·one aµd two 
. . . -. . 
. bedroom apartments~ some with lofts · ­
•fucludes__membership j~-the new 
. . . . . . ,. 
Castle Point Racquet Club· . 
,. . 

ahd Fitness· Center ­
' 
.... ' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
-

--------. 

-
page 30 
SOCCER 

FIFA suspends U.S. captain for qualifiers 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK 
U.S. soccPr captain Claudio llcyna was suspcnd­ncl for tw11 Worl<l Cup quali­f'iPrs on Thursday by FIFA and coach Bruce Arena was suspendNI for thr<w games for arguing following thP July 2] game at Costa Rica. 
Tlw suspensions m1•an llw ,\uwricans will Im missing thnw play<irs for their Oct. I I qua!ifinr against Costa Hica at Columbus. Ohio. Midf'iPld11r Earnie 

process, and we nncd lo put it behind us and move for­ward in our preparation for these upcoming games." 
With the suspension of Heyna. Tab Ramos probably 
will be called on  tu  run the  
U.S. ol'fonse.  
"Everyone  that  has  

watched me throughout my carnnr, knows how unchar­acteristic my actions were atfor the loss in Costa Hica. and I am sorry for losing my composure," Reyna said in a stat<'tnl'nt released by tho 
U.S. Soccer Federation. 
T h e USSF is 
Stewart and "Everyone that has investi­Fddi1• L1•wis gating
watched me throughout
will lw S(!rv­whether in g OllP.­my career. knows how iL can 
galll(' SUS­uncharacteristic my appnal pnnsions for Arnria's
action,,;; were after the 

fhPi r a,·ti ons suspen­
loss in Costa Rica, and I
in tlw Sqit. s i O 11 , 3 win ov11r am sorry for losing my issued by CuatPmala. ttw discf­
composure.

HPyna will p Ii nary also· miss commit­tlH· nnal Caludio Reyna tee of gam1) ol" lhl' FIFA, soc­
U.S. soccer captain 
r ,, g i o n a I sPmifinals, on Nov. 15 al. Barbados. Tlw United Stal.f's n!'Pds at (past on«­win in tlw l'inal two gamns to q u a I il'y f'o r n 1• xt y1m r · s regional finals. 
Costa Hic a wo n 2 -l t lw .luly 23 ganw in San J()Sf' on !l,\rnan \1Pdford's \H\rHdty kirk in thP final minute. a,vard1•d by .Jamaican rnl'Pr­11!' J>PtPr Pn•ndcrgust, who rulPd dnfnnder Gri,gg BPrhaltPr handlPd thP ball in tlw pPnalty area. The /\nwricans wen• convincnd th£• ball w£mt off Berhaltpr's shouldPr. 
:\f"tpr tlw gamP. HPy1rn and ,\rPna v1dwmcntly argued with Prnndergast. 
"Till' ga11w in Costa Hica was an PllWlional defeat for us, and our rf'actinns to that loss \V<'n' Ntually nmotion­al." /\rPrrn said. "We a c k n ow If' d g f' a n d u n d ,, r ­stand FIF/\'s decision in this 


Join 
the 
30 million 
Americans 
who e·file 
Thirty million Americans use IRS t-:filt. Get your federal tax refund in less than half the usual time. Or, ifyou owe tax, e-file early but wait until April 17m to pay. Visit ourWeb site: www.i.nl.gov 
"il#Ot> 
Cl..101(. ZIP, FA ¦T RCUNC TRIP 

cer's gov-n r n in g bodv. 
Heyna's suspPnsinn is lina"i. 
Lewis must sit out the Oct. 11 gam1) bccausn he was 11jcctcd from the Guatmnala qualifier f'or throwing an Plbow. Stewart received his second yellow card of quali­fying in that game, drawing an automatic one-game sus­pension. 
The United Stales (2-1-1) is second with seven points in Group E of the semifinals 
of  soccer's  North  and  
Central  /\mnrican  and  
Caribbean  region,  two  

points hl'l1ind Costa Hica (3­
1) and thren points ahead of Guatemala (1-2-1). Barbados (1-]) is last with thrnn points. 
Only the top two teams advance to next year's regional l'inals, which will produce three qualifiers for the 2002 World Cup in Japan and South Korea. 
The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 15, 2000 
NFL 

San Diego benches Leaf for game 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 
Ryan Leaf, ineff'e('tivn in San 
Diego's first two regular-season 
games after a strong pnisea­
son. will not start the Chargers' 
game Sunday in Kansas City. 
Coach Mike Hiley said 
Thursday that Moses Moreno 
will open at quarterback 
against the Chiefs. 
"I lhink il's our best chance 
to win right now," Riley said. 
"This is obviously something 
that didn't happen in the last 
24 hours. I've thought about it. 
It"s a big move. · "One of our biggest goals was 
to be a productive team on 
offense. We haven't been I 
think right now our team needs 
a spark." 
In San Diego's opening losses 

to Oakland and New Orleans, Leaf threw five interceptions and had a 33.4 quarterback rating. He did throw a touch­down pass Sunday against l.hn Saints. 
"The Kansas City wonk has been bad for me, huh''" Leaf said, referring to a l-for-15, five-turnover pcrl'ormance against the Chief's during his rookie season. 
"All three of us arc capable or starting and winning for this ballclub. Jim (Harbaugh) and Moses have supported nrn through all this. I m going to support Moses." 
Moreno has seen limitnd action this season and has just one career start as a rookie wilh Chicago in 1998. 
"It was a little shocking," Moreno said. "They havn to make those decisions some­
times. lln (Hiley) !ooknd mn right in thn nye and said, ·we fen! confident, wn f'enl comfort­able with vou in th1~rc.' That IPts JOU know it's tho rnal deal. 
Hiley stressed the move was based solely on performance, ending spnctllation that LPars rebuilt right shoulder was hurt­ing or that he had benn subor­dinate in any way. 
"Absolutely not," Hilny said. "I think for Hyan in tlw long run. and the team in tho imme­dialt), ,this is the rifaht. decision." 
Lnaf, tho secom pick overall in the 1998 draf't, had a differ­ent. take on his f'uturn. 
"I don't think I'll bP th!' start<ir again unless Moses goes down or is hurt," Lnal' said. "It's not in my hands. I did the most I could to put. mysnlf out on the football field." 

Shanahan replies to accusations 
Associated Press 
DENVER 
After hearing a sncond com­plaint from opposing players alleging that his offensivP lin<'­men are guilty of' illegal blocking techniques, D e n v e r Brnncos coach Mike Shanahan lirnd back. 
Shanahan labnled the accusers as .. vvhiners" and insisted Thu rs day that since his tmun hasn't bPcn lined by the NFL for any block­ing violations. his players arc in compliance with league ruins. 
St. Louis players accused Dcnvnr linnmen of making ques­tio nabIP blocks during the Monday night opener, won by the Hams 41-36. Broncos line­men responded that the Hams wern the dirty ones, and they accused St. Louis defensive tackle f)'Marco Farr of punching Denver tackle Matt Lepsis in the 
groin. Farr was  flagged  for  
unnecessary roughness on  the  
play.  



Prior to this weekend's gamr at Oakland. RairiPrs del'!msivn tackle Darrell Bussell lnw)Pd a similar charge, one he has made in previous seasons. In particu­lar, Russnll accusrid the Broncos of "out.right holding and rut­blocking. This is a man's sport, and that's not being a man." 
In response, Shanahan said, "I don't like people that whine, to start with. I'm not talking about Darrell Hussell but people in general. 
"Every play that we do in the offensive linn is scrutinized by the NFL. If we do something ille­gal, we get fined for it. We haven't gottnn lirwd. I lrnard the same thing after the game with the Rams. Thny were complain­ing, and there was no linn af'tnr that game. You take it for what­ever it's worth. 
"I get tired of pcoplo whining whnn we havn success running the football." 
After Denver's back-to-back Super Bowl titles following the 1997 and 1998 seasons, the NFL enacted blocking rules aimed particularly at curtailing some of Denver's tactics. 
"They put in ruins for us, sup­posedly bocause we were doing something illegal," Shanahan said. "Otherwise, we couldn't have tlrn Sll('COSS running tlw football lik1~ we did. Last vPar wo were 6-10. and I didn't iH\lll' any complaints at all. 
"All of a suddPn af'tPr a coupl<• of' games whnrc we run tlw foot­ball well, tlw complaints ,trP coming back. But wn havPri't bo,rn f'ined. I kind ol' !'incl it amusing." 
Following Thursday's prarticn. Shanahan also was in a good humor concPrning tlw lwalth of two of his injurnd startnrs. 
Hunning back Tnrrell Davis, whosn recovery from n~con­structivn surgery on his right knee last October was slowPd by a sprai,wd left ankle in the sea­son opener, practicnd for the sncond straight day, as did mid­dle linebacknr Al Wilson, who has a shoulder injury. 
"Torrell lookncl pretty good," Shanahan said. "Exactly how hn'II fen! by game day, I rnn't tell you. llopef'ully tlrnrn's no sntback and ho keeps on improving. I kept him out of' contact for obvious masons. Wn'rn still listing him as quPs­tionable. But so far. so good." 
Shanahan said Wilson, who will wear a harnnss ov<w his dis­located shoulder, "wnnt through all thP live contact and said he felt good. lie was l'ull go today." 

~':.):Bragging rights. 
The Colegiate Olympk:: MedaJ Race is on! _,,Follow the tally with the GE College Medal -.~cker, only on NBCQtymRKtS..~m. 
.-.-----------------------------------~-------------­
Friday, September 15, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 3 I 
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 
Knight begins to move on after leaving Indiana 
• Pacers' Thomas sees wisdom, knowledge in Knight 
IM llA1'\JAPOI JS Indiana Pacnrs coach Isiah Thomas rmt..'iSPrted his intProst in hiring Bob Knight as a meiitor. 
Thomas said he first disr,ussed a position with his former r:ollege coach alter joining the Pacers in late July. 
'Tm looking for wisdom and I'm looking for knowledge. I hope that now that he has more tim0, Im would be mori· involved with nm as a mfmtor." 
cinema@thesnite 
· presents 

Bye Bye Brazil 
• ~ Ti'•·;·,•:,.. 
·-.r""'1'11ifW'1WII.R#~ 
-


Fri. & Sat. 9:00 p.m. 
said Thomas, who has nAver coar:hHd at any level Knight, fired by Indiana University on Sunday for violating a zero-toleranr.e b8havior policy imposed by university president Myles Brand, ha.-; said he still wanL'> to coar:h. 
"That olter still stands and I hope he d0cides to tutor me," said Thomas, who led the HoosiArs to one of their three '.'IC!\.!\ championships undnr Knight. 
..When you look at th<' brainpower that he possesses, and the knowledge that he possesses about tlrn game ... when you're looking at passing game and weakside defense, he wrotfl the book" 
Thomas said Knight plannnd to talk with several friends he nispr.cts, including former NFL coach Bill Parcells, St. Louis Cardinals manager Tony La Bussa and form0r r.olJHge bas­ketball coach Petn Newell, about his future. 
"In lhP process ol doing that. I think he would consider being more heavily and mor<' involV<'d in mvsolf'." Thomas said. "I don't think I find a b0tter per­son, or a bettn coach to help me along." 
Thomas said h0 wm; uncertain what 
role Knight would fill with the Pacers. 
"I don't see him coming to prar.tice 
every day unless he wa.s getting paid. 
rrom my standpoint, I would love if he 
would be there every moment where r 
could say, 'Hey, coach! What do you 
think?' Just like Phil Jackson has with 
Tex Winter." Thomas said. 
It will be Knight's

. Knight plans 
second visit to Busr.h to visit friend Stadium this season. LaH.ussa said
LaRussa 
Thursday that ho has not spoken to Knight
Associated Press 
since he was fired on 
Sunday after 29 sea­

ST. LOUIS sons at Indiana. 
Bobby Knight will be LaRussa had no back in the locker insight on whether room Friday night -at Knight would coach Busch Stadium. again. 
Knight, firnd earlier "l have no idea. but I this week watched as Indi­"I watched what what he ana's bas­I 'd H 'd said," La 
ket b a 11 

ze sm · e sm · Russa said. 
coach, is he's interested. "He savs scheduled There's going to hr's intr.r­to \'iSit e st 0 d
be some place [he 
Cardinals Theres manager will coach]" going to be T o n y some placn." LaHussa Knight was
Tony LaRussa 
on Friday, onP of sever­
Cardinals' manager
before St. al celebrit~ 
Louis plays r,oa(·hing 
the Chi-visitors to 
cago Cubs. the Cardinals' spring 
The two first met training site in Jupitnr, 
during LaRussa's yHars Fla. 
as manager or the During on0 game, he 
Oakland Athetics. sat on the bench with 
Cardinals trainer Barry Bill Parr:ells and 
Weinberg, who Charlie Spoonhour, a 
rer:eived his master's former college basket­
degree at Indiana, bal I coach at Saint 
introdur:ed the two. Louis. 
Presented by ND Film, Television, and Theatre 
Check out Observer online classifieds
www.nd.edu/~cothweb 

www.observer.nd.edu 

We're looking for thinkers. Not just their diplomas. 
Create a future with us. 

Andersen Consulting Career Night and Information Session -Monday, September 18, 6:30 p.m. -8:30 p.m., Center for Continuing 
Education, Lower Level. Pizza and snacks will be served. 
You know you're more than a piece of paper. You're bursting with ideas and insights that can change the world of business. And at Andersen Consulting, we want them. 
As a leading global management and technology consulting organization, we bring our insights and ideas to world-class clients to help them achieve profound change. After all, 
"1998 Andersen Consulting. All rights rmrved. /In equal opporttmity •mployor. 

it takes powerful ideas to align strategy with people, processes and technology. 
We'll provide first-rate training and guidance, and expose you to a variety of projects and industries. All of which builds a solid foundation for your future. 
Take this opportunity to talk to us about yourself, and most importantly, your ideas. 
Visit our Web site at ac.com 
This is a great time to be part of our firm as we create a new identity and seize new opportunities. 
.-.. -


Anderser / ~11, 
CO~-~y('i~~:_a1~I 
.....'· 
-

page 32 The Observer ~ .C. PORTS Friday, September 15, 2000 
Soccer 
continued from page 40 
firs l start of' tlw season. 
W hi I(' th t' tI' am has b (~en abl(~ to crnatr good shots all season. thev havt' had trouble convPrling chances into 
points. 
A hPalthv Braun would makl' lhP Irish offnnso quite polPll l. 
"Hrirh lookPd prntty good," said Maio. "ll(•·s gonna taki~ a 

little timr to get really flying again. but !m's starting to look more likP himself' every prac­
tir.(i." 

In addition to adding Braun to the lineup, Moad Coach Chris Apple plans to shah up tlrn lineup a bit in other places as well. 
"I think we're gonna shake things up a little with tho starting lineup." said Apple. "We changed things around today in an intersquad scrim­magn, and thr group looked good. It's a very compntitive 
"Player for player we will 
be the more talented team. As long as our effort is right and our concentration is right we should win. " 
Chris Apple head coach 
team and the guys who are performing tho best at the time are the ones who art1 

going to get to slarL We . should get 16 to 18 guys in the 
game ifwe do well." 
Despite giving up more than 
one goal in both of the last 
two games, the defense has 
looked extremely strong. 
Most of the goals allowt1d 
have come on breakaway 
goals caused by offensive 
breakdowns. 
By eliminating these brnak­
downs, and adding a provl'n 
finisher to the offense, the 
Irish r.ould prove very quickly 
to be a force to be reckoned 
with in the Big liast. Apple reels cxt.rr.mPly confi­dent hnading into Syracusri. 
"I exprcl us to hav11 a great pr.rrormancc 11nd prPssurP them ddcnsivr.ly and hopdul­ly win the ball in their half of the field," said Apple. "On attack I expect us to crnatr multipln goal scoring chanc,•s and finish our charH:ns. Playnr for player wn will bn the mor<\ talentr.d tram. As long as our effort is right and our concen­tration is right wn should win." 


Friday, Septemeber 15, 2000 The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 33 
Dr. Hurd Then (in 1969) 

1. 
Anatomy and pathophysiology of the human eye 

2. 
Common eye diseases; new treatments and techniques -age-related macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy, glaucoma, cataracts, 

optic neuropathy -LASIK (refractive surgery among professional athletes and the general population) 

3. 
Medical mission project-China, Mexico, Africa, South Africa, Brazil, Madagascar 


William C. Hurd Ophthalmologist, Memphis Tennessee Saturday, September 16, 2000 
9:00 a.m. -10:00 a.m. (Before Purdue game) Room 101 DeBartolo Hall 
Co-sp9nsored by Saint Joseph's Regional Medical Center, South Bend Campus and the Notre Dame Alumni Association 
Dr. Hurd Now 


I -­

""' 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
Whirlwinds, Grubb take on Pyros 
By JEff BAlTRUZAK, JOE 
UCANDRO, and MARIAH 
(iUINN 
.\11un~ \1<'1 ih.T, 
Tilt• la-.L Linll' l'asquPrilla l:asl and W,+..!1 l·'amily nwl. it ,.,·as in lill' shad(),v or Tourhdown lt•sus III last _V('ar·s charnpi­nnship gamP in tlw stadium 
This yl'ar. llwy rrpris<· \·\1\lsh's tripll' ovPrtinw thriller on th<' '.'vlcClinn !irids Sunday at llOPII. 
PF is !Pd by sf'nior l'aptain n·cl'iv1·r Stm·y l.l'icbt. rnturning rwsn guard (;ina l.ot·klar and sPnior d Pf'PnsivP linPman llrinda !\.lrCullou).{h Tlw Pyros will havP a 111•,1· quarl1\rback ;it th1• hl'lm. sophonwrP Lindsay l'(•risay. 
Ll'irlll PXpPrls Uw LP.till to hav1• ,l mixl'd 01Tt•ns1• ol' run and pass. ,\rt,•r making lhl' finals last yt'ar. tlw l'yros art' taking l111• sPason ganw by ganw. ··1wu an'I jusl looking to make thl' playoffs." Silid l.1•irht. "\V(•'rc young and wry la!PntPd at tlw sanw tinw." 
Tlw WPlsh Familv Whirlwinds will rPI~ 011 llw ·sPrvi,·1•s ol' l'l'turning s,·nior startPrs Maria l'l'illllt'VPI', ,\lison Tullis and quur!Prh,u:k KaliP Hak. 
WPlsh is rounting on V<'tl'l'an play to lw a t,•am strnngth. "\Vp havP a ('OfP group of pPopl,~ that rn·,, sophomon's that Wl'fl' outstanding as frpshnwn." said 1-'Pilnwy<'r. 
Forn11•r varsity sorrPr playr-r and f'our-tim«' .'\ll-1\nwril'an .f Pnn Grubb \\ifl play f'or tlw Whirlwinds this v,•ar. 
"Slw will lw oiw of' our gn•at­1•st stn•ngths." said ,,.Pilnwyl'r. 
Howard vs. Lewis 
Tlw Durks takt' on llw Chicks in a BluP l.<'11gu1· d ivisionttl showdmrn Sunday at 2 p.m. on tlw M(·(;linn ltC'lds. 
This gaml' is important for both l<',llllS lo g1•t thuir 2000 campaigns start.Pd oil in tlw right din·rtion. 
L1•wis has a W!'ltlth of' tatentnd incoming frPshnwn -including quarlr.rbark fain Nasrnllah and is welcoming thr. rPturn of flashy wide rcceiv,q· Katir. Schlossr.r. who 111iss,,d last sr.a­son whilP studying abroad. 
\-\'liiln 1.r.wis bas many new fan\S, 1loward. a playoff tr.am a Y('ar ago, has a majority of last y(iar's tnam rl'turning ant.I is led by star quartl\rbal'k .Jill Vf'selik and c.aptain .lean1w Trcleasr.. Tlw batll<' of l.<'wis' young tal­Pnt vnrsus Iloward's mon• l'XPI'· riencnd lin1\up makes !'or an intriguing matr.hup. 
Cavanaugh vs. Lyons 
Last year the Cavanaugh Chaos dispatl'iwd Lyons I lall in tlw lirst round of tl11• women's flag football playoffs, and this Sunday lhc' two teams will rPunit(\ on McC!inn Fir.Id with high hopes !'or tlw coming sea­son. 
"Wn'rp hoping to make it lo LlH' stadium," said Lyons cap­tain senior Lisa Thomas. 
"Wn'rC' pretty excited. W11 have a dl'cr.n t shot of doing n•ally wdl," said tlw Cavanaugh captain, sr.nior Amy Sz1\stak. 
Lvons was :i-2-1 last vr.ar bPl'iirP losing in th(' lirst r;iuncl of tlw playoffs. and Cavanaugh. 4-2 last yrnr. made it lo thr. sr.r­ond round br.f'or!' bring rlimi­
n a tr.cl. 

7he Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 15. 2000 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
Off-Campus teases Wild Women 
Bv LAUREN CONTI, TODD 
NIETO, and JOHN BACSIK 
Sport.s Writci·s 
Thr Wild W11nrnn of \-\'alsh I lall will f'ar<' off against th11 011'­Camµus l<~am Lhis Sunday at 
4:00 p.m. in tlw sr.ason op('1wr or Womrn·s Cold Lcagw• lntl'rhall Football. 
SpPclalors can Pxpcct a com­pl'titiw game lillrd with surpris­es. Walsh enters still riding high off a 7-0 victory in a s,,rimmage against Urn Pasqunrilla East. Pyros. last snason·s runners-up. this past Sunday. 
Tlw Wile.I Women also man­rrged to hold the srorl' to 0-0 in a recent scrimmagl' against Pangborn. 
Thf' Off-Campus womrn havr not playBd any scrimmages. and don't plan to b<>fore Sunday. /\s a rr,sult. Sunday's gamn is polt\n­tially full ofsurprises. 
"They can play a wild card, you know,'' said Walsh coach Steve. DillPnburg11r. "Tl1('y haven't had a tC'am in a coupl0 or y0ars." 
011'-campus tnam captain and quarlr,rback Marita KcanP 
expresses confidence. 
"Evnrybody on our team has played beforn," she said. "W0 don't have any rn;w players or freshml'n, so we were able to gr.t right down to business and run the plays. \\/e'n• prntty confi­dent." 
Tim Walsh offense could take some by surprise. "We have a young olfonsl', but wn'n• really getting things moving on llw lirld," said Walsh Ila!! quart!'r­back Lauren Walsh. "\V0're fired 
up." 
Thr Off Campus offpnsP will start onP or thn1(\ possibll' quar­terbacks on Sunday: KPane. li1r­nwrly of' Brc\en-Phillips llall. 

Nicole 13nnjamin. l'orirn•rly or McGlinn llall. or Jamin Stoulfor. a Saint Marv's transfor. 
"Tlwy sh1;uld bn prPtty skill1\d," said Dill<\nburg(;r or tlw Of'l'­Campus olfons<'. "I know lhPy'vc got a bunch of' good athld!'.S from past dorm t11ams. We havP a strong dPf't'nsP, though. That's whern a lot of' our v1;tcrans an,." 
"We havn a lot of' tricks up our slrnwe," said Kmuw. "Bpcausn wn hav1) rnprnsm1tativPs from almost Pvr.ry dorm. wr' Wl'n' abl.C' to put their plays togdlwr, cornpi!(\ a lot ol' thin).{S." 
Badin vs. Pasquerilla West 
One of Lhp, final games of' Llw W<'nkfrnd pits tlw Badin llall Bulll'rogs against tlw l'asqunrilla West Purpln Wnascls in a battll' on thn gridiron on Sunday at McG!inn field at 5 p.m. 
"Wr. arn looking to get off to a good start," Badin I lall t<'am 1:ap­tain Tilliwy Colon said. Tlw team is road1nd by Anthony Pilchr:r. Brett Gans(\ll, and Patrick Scoggins and is looking to improvl' on last yPar's playoff appcarnncP. 
Heturning to Llw Hullfrog squad is senior quartnrback Prissy Clcnrnnls and sPnior split nnd Br.tsy Cavo. "Wr hav1\ bPPn prai:­ticing for awhil<i and an• rnady," said Colon. 
Coaclrncl by Tony Bald(\a and Tim Lane, th(! Purpl(' Wnasnls arc out to dr.foat thi' Bullfrogs and arc hoping to cvPntually scrure a playoff bPrth. 
"Badin's going down." said WeasPl captain Amanda CallPn. "Coach t\nthonv 1wPds to watch 
out." · 
Tim Pasqunrilla WPasPI tr•am is lead by snnior tight P11CI Kori Ynl!P, midd!P litwbarkPr K<'llv 
Drid', and running bark Ilannah Jo. 
"We arc' looking liwward lo llw playoff-; and playing l'asqucrilla liast in tlrn stadium," Call1\11 said. 
McGlinn vs. Farley 
Last yPar's ganH• b1•twc•1•n Md;Jinn and Farlny (\ndPd in a scornlnss tiP. This Sunday, both teams hopn lo heat things up on McClinn lil'ld. 
M!'Glinn looks to improw on thci r olTPllSC' f'ro111 last. sc·ason. .Jody c;rnarwy will lw taking tlw snaps from l'n'shman rPnll'r Katn Van l,:ua. 
".Jody is a tn•m1•ndous at.hlPtf'." said coach Cnoll' I ldpln. "Slw h,L, a strong arm, and slw runs tlw option wPII." 
Co-raµtain Mary l.1•111.ini will b(\ orw of CrPa1wy's main taq.i;.,L, down tfw l'inld. whilf' ,Juli<' Krnnrnr providns an option tlm•at out oJ'thP bar.klir•ld. 
Senior lindiarkPr .Jamil' (;!assnr looks to take ral'(' of' things on tlw dnf'nnsivn Pnd f'or thn Shamrocks Tlw lnarn fosl two lim•bark1\rs rrom last sPason. but thPir coach isn't worriPd. ".lamiP is tlw !wart and soul of this tPam. and lh•shman Briamw Mr:Nirholas will he a staplP al lirn\backPr:· said ! !dplP. 
.Junior rornPrba(·k Christa Grav will anrhor llw S!'('OIHlar\' alo;1g with sarl'ly ,\ngPl;t Br.rttPlli. Crav and BnttP!li should haw tl1;\ir work l'lll out l'or tlwm against FarlPy quartPr­bark .knny Ccraci. 
Gt'ral'i. along with \\icJ,, rPrc>ivers BPlh MrKav and Courtnry CIPason. rnturns.f'rom a ynar abroad to !Pad ,,.arlr'y's oll'Pnsiw attark. 
eCollegeFootball.com jThe Marketplace! 


luesday, September 12, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 35 ­
VOLLEYBALL 
Belles hope. to earn first win against Flying Dutch 

. 0-8 Saint Mary's defends home court 
By ALICIA ORTIZ Sporrs Writer 
The 0-8 Belles volleyball team will defend its home rourt against the 5-3 ·Flying Dutch of I-lope College Saturday after­noon. 
"We know !!ope will be as much of a challenge as Kalamazoo," said LPigh Anne Malesich. "We need to be men­
hard against Hupe. [t is one of our best games," said junior Jolie LeBeau. "Our biggest goal is to be able to play as one unit." 
The Belles are enthusi­astic despite their record and said the coaching staff is helping them improve every game. 
"The coaching slaff, especially Julie Schroeder­Biek and Sue Ushela. is the best since I have been here," senior Victoria Butcko said, 
The lfo!les derive moti­vation and inspiration 
f r o m 
Schroeder-
tally and "We always seem to 13iek. physiral!,Y "We play
play hard against

prepared. to show her
Hope. ft is one ofour

Afier los­[Schroe­ing to Kala­best games. Our der-Bick] m a z o o that she has
biggest goal is to be 

College taught us
able to play as one

Tuesday, well." said the Belles unit.,, LcBeau. hope to "We do it improve for our­
Jolie LeBeau

their per­selves and formance for her."
middle hitter 

for upcom­ing games. 
"Hope is always tough competition. We .are look­ing forward to this game," 
said  coach  Julie  
Schroeder-Biek.  
I-lope  defeated Saint  

Mary's in 1999 and fin­ished thfl season with a 7­1 record. 
"Wf' always seem lo play The Belles 
are focused mostly on improving this weekend. 
"We want to improve with every game," said Butcko. "We want to reach and surpass goals. if we can do that on Saturday, in our eyes we will have won no matter what the score­board says." 

• 
ummer 
erv1ce 
rojects: 
James F. Andrews Scholarship Fund 
Jhe Center for Social Concerns would like
& Andrews' Scholars 
to express it's gratitude to the 
¦ __Andrewj and rf!c rf!eel Jamihej.
20th 
nn1versary 
Over the past 20 years, they have ajjtjled 
'\ more than 2500 students to parlicipale in eight weeks of jervice learning and
Celebration 
re/fecfion through Summer Service Projects and THEO 360: Confronting Social Issues. Through the collaboration of these generous donors, active ND alumni clubs throughout the world, and compassionate students, our 

CENTER FOR 

SOCIAL 
own and others' lives have been transformed. 
CONCERNS 


DOROTHY CARDER/The Observer Leigh Anne Masteich and the Belles host the Flying Dutch of Hope College Saturday. The Belles are looking to avenge their 1999 loss to the Flying Dutch . 
-----------------------. -­
page 36 The Observer . SPORTS 
-

Friday, September 15, 2000 
Irish 
continued from page 40 
winning streak. Washington also notr.lwd an irnprnssive win against 17th-ranked BYU. Washington's f'ormidablc 
of'fen si ve attack wi11 be anchored by seniors Tami Bennott and Tlrnrnsa Wagner, who combin11 to form one of' the nation's most potlrn t sror­ing tandems. 
After facing the lluski11s on Friday, the Irish will f'ace the Pilots on Sunday. The Pilots are also off to an unblemished 6-0 start, inrluding a come­back win against the BYU Cougars. 
Notre Dame will continu1) to play the same up-tempo styln that has nr.ttcd thr.m tlwir first 11ve wins. 
"Wo nf'l'd to continue play­ing solid soccer," said Makinen. "We have to kcPp moving the ball around and got our chanc1~s." 
As always Makinen will play a central rolr. in creating those r.hanr.ns, but shn won't be alonn as sevnral nwmbPrs of a highly touted frnshmcn class have steppnd up. 
Handi Sl'hnl!Pr, Amy Warnt'r and Amanda Guertin have all br,1\11 solid if' not spnctacular for Notrn Damn. Warnnr's blinding spnod has afforded lrnr a number of goal scoring r.hances. many of' which she has convertnd. while Guf'rtin is already onn of the team's top playmakers. 
"Our freshmen havn really stcppnd up." said Makinen. "They have a groat work r.thic and are really amazing p!-10­ple." 

LAZARD 


Friday, September 15, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 37 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Saint Mary's looks to end 3-game slump against Olivet 

By SARAH RYKOWSKI Spam W ri[er 
Saint Mary's soccer team is out for revenge. 
They want vindication after three shutout losses, includ­ing 5th-ranked DePauw and 22nd-ranked Kalamazoo, the defending MIAA champion. 
"We have gotten through the toughest stretch of this season," head coach Jason Milligan said. "[The DePauw, Hose-Hulman and Kalamazoo games wcrc1 a great experience for them to see different levels of compe­tition." 
As they enter Saturday's match against Olivet, the Belles will soek to avenge last year's shutout losses to the Lady Comets. The comets beat the Belles 3-0 in both the regular season the first round of the 1999 MIAA play­offs. 
"We're looking forward to an entertaining game," Belles sweeper Alissa Brasseur said. 
The Ladv Comets finished third in the MIAA in 1999. with a league record of 5-2-1 and an overall slate of 14-4­
1. They are led by head coach Mark Fales, who returns a strong corps of players. 
Doris Sullivan led ber team as a sophomore in 1999 in scoring and points, finding the net 15 times and finishing with 32 points, despite sitting out eight games with a bro­ken collarbone. Junior goalie Tanja Roberts returns to the net for 2000, after recording seven shutouts and averaging less than one goal allowed per game. 
Despite the Comets formi­dable roster, the Bflllfls said they are ready. 
"We had a great practice [Wednesday]." Milligan said. "We know exactly where we're at and where we need to go." 
The Belles are looking for their second conference vic­tory, after opening the season with a shutout of Alma. That conference victory was also the last time the Belles scored. 
Olivet has al§o had its share of trouble this season, as it was forced to forfeit a non­conference match against Northern Michigan because of an injury. It bounced back quickly, however, to defeat Alma 2-1. 
"We're excited because we know it is going to be a physi­cal game," co-captain Jessica Klink said. "We're ready to put the pressure on." 
VOLLEYBALL 
Irish head to Florida riding high after sweep of Valpo 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame volleyball will compete in the Lady Seminole Volley ball Classic beginning today in Tallahassee, Florida. 
Notre Dame is coming off a three-game sweep of Valparaiso (15-7, 15-8, 15-3) which moved the Irish up to 4-3 on the season after losing their first matches of the season to No. 1 Nebraska, No. 7 UCLA and No. 17 Michigan State in the adidas Invitational held at the Joyce Center. Junior Kristy Kreher put in a strong performance last weekend with 21 kills, nine digs and four assists in game three against the 
VOTED#t
Iby peopleI who know 
tanning! 
Spartans to be named to the all­tournament team while class­mate Malinda Goralski racked up a career high 15 kills. Senior co-captain Denise Boylan topped Notre Dame in the Shamrock Invitational (Sept. 1-3) with 136 assists, 27 blocks, ten blocks, ten kills and five aces to be named the Big East player of the week. 
Freshmen Jessica Kinder and Kim Fletcher have put in an impressive performance this year. Fletcher has totaled 18 kills, 11 digs and ten blocks while Kinder has racked up 20 digs, eight aces and eight kills. The Irish will face Florida A&M for the first time today at noon. The Rattlerettes are currently 1­
o nts • Gift Certificates • Guaranteed Satisfaction! 
For Your Best Tan Ever! 1 Get a Fun Tan! I 
I I 
I I

"1111 ;111 I I 
Tan until the end of the year at FUN TAN for a ONE TIME COST of only $100.
I 
SIGN UP NOW! The sooner you do, the more tanning you'll get!I AND when you bring in this coupon get 25% off our wide selection of tanning lotions! I 
272-7653 NEW University Location State Road 23 & Ironwood I I 256-9656 Corner of Grape and McKinley 291,2000 Southland Plaza Ireland & Ironwood _J
~--------------------~­
. 1 floowing a successful 1999 season in which they qualified for the NCAA tournament. Shante Hymore leads Florida A&M with 32 kills and 16 digs so far this season. At 7 p.m. Notre Dame will meet with Flordia State for the third time in Irish history with each team having a win. 
The Seminoles are currently 8-1 on the season with Alex Seveillano proving to be a threat with 125 kills and 84 digs in 2000. Saturday morning Notre Dame will face Samford for the first time. The Bulldogs are 5-3 this year with a strong perfor­mance from Shellie Ouldhouse who has totaled 104 kills and ten aces this year. 



-.-------------------------------­
-----~ ­


The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 15, 2000 
-
MEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
Dillon aims to avenge disappointing 1999 season end 

with the srnior fullbark Visner Brian Kuhitzcr. Stnve Gehrman By MATT CASSADY, JAMES 
will carry tlw bulk of the olfon­anchors lhl' defensive !inf'.
-
VFRALDI, an<l RRlAN SHARP sivP. load for the Big Hed. When Offonsiv11ly, Ker.nan is IP.ad by thc1 running ba<·ks arc not quarterback Billy Ellsworth and pounding the ball at the Griffins a young offensive line featuring on th!' ground, il will bP. up to mostly sophomorPs and fresh­
Tlw llillon Big Hed intPrhall 

junior quartr.rback Tayt Odom to men. Overall. Keenan is for.using 
football h·am looks for rNll'mp­

!'ind the open man among an on rebuilding 11.ft0r dominating
Lion Sundav al'tl'rnoon as it faces 

unprovrn rncriving r.orps. intPrhall l'oolball over the pastan improv;•d Stanford !Pam at :3 
"I will just try to spread it three years.
p.m. at Slt>p:tn lfolds. 

around and tind the open man." Although rr:lativcly inexperi­Whih: Dillon wm; an imprcssivl' Odom said. "I think our offense encr.d in the sr.condary,
:1-! during thP rcgul,lr iwason 

will primarily be running the Morrissey I !all will send an over­last yPar. tlw Big H11d madn a 
ball, though." all expe1·ienced tf'am that lostlirst rnund nxit from tlw µlay­Tho Stanford dofonse must be only a few starters from a yearoils. falling vi,·tim to Knott llall. 
wary of an altogethor new offen­ago.
I)illon lrn,ks to rebound from iL-; 

sivn gamr plan Ii-om the Big Bed. Tho linebacker core of' Vince
rarly t)Xit by rrlying on its 

This season, Dillon has changed DcGennaro, Jose Honchetta,ground gan11' against Stanford. 
its offpnsive strntngy. ar,cordin~ John Carvf'r, and Joe Larson
"WP arP going to mix it up." 

to Odom. anchors tlw ddense. Notableli1wbark1•r-fullbark and sPnior "In yf'ars past, w1; would run freshm<'n Justin Baumler will be
,·o-captuin .Jason Visrwr said. 

random plays here and thf:re," rotating in at dpfensivc end on
"But primarily IWI' will do ill on lw said. "But last spring aflPr the an athletic deliinsive line 1,,ad bytlw ground .. 

s,mson h,td f'llflf'cl, wn sat down nose tarklP Nir:k Davis.
Vis1wr ll'ads the did'ensP 

and went through some things, Of'fi>nsivnly, senior captainagainst. a Stanford oflpnsc lhat 
and we put a system in place." Mark Berndt will be rnplacing
managnd just 21 pDints last fall. 

Just how wr.ll that systrm works the lPl{(mdary Danny Sullivan atTlw (;riffins won their season will come down to execution. quarterbar,k, Other than Joshopml!'r 21-0 last yPar, and thPn 
"I think we arfl the team to Hife replacing Stcvf' BarlAtt at
failed lo scorf: u single point for 

beat," Visncr said. "But we still tailback. most of last year's
the duration of their sdwduk. 

havn to go do it on the field." offensive starters are back.
"I think evcryon11 who plnys 

This guardPd optimism does Morrissey was an underachiev­
inLnrhall has one goal; to gN to 

noL sr.11 well with the Gril'tins. "I ing team a year ago, and expccl'i
tlw stadium at thP. end of thl' 

don't think anyone is the team to big things this year. TONY FLOYDfThe Observer
year," Criffins senior raptain II ugh Ho berts said...l guess it beat," ltoberts said. "Look what Alumni suits up for practice Thursday in preparation for its sea­happenPd to Keenan and Keough
would b,• good to scorn more Alumni vs. O'Neill son opener against O'Neill. 
last year. They both thought they
than 21 points though." This weekend, Notre Dame's 
were going to win it all last year
In spite of last year's olTensive varsitv football team is not the defense. they held their oppo-O'Neill is looking to build some
and neither of them made it that
futility, Hoberts sees this sea­onlv o·ne that will r,nter into bat-nents without a point. Despite momentum to start tlw season 
far."

son's unit as one thal is on the tic ·with an inexperienced hand entering into the playoffs with with after a winless 1999 r.am-riS(l. at the helm of their battleship. the numbernne seed, they fell in paign. Sophomore Mark Yost, 
"Lasl year Wl' had some prob­Keenan vs. Morrissey Alumni Hall will also be guided the first round. one of ten returnees. when asked !(ims with passing, so we had to It may not have the hype of by a newcomer as they open up A deep and expnriPnccd team. how his toam did last year, dPpl'nd a litlll' Loo much on thr Notre Dame-Nebraska, but their season against O'Neill this they return 16 players from that responded simply "not too well" run," ht) said. "But so far, our Sunday's intcrhall football game wr.ekend at 2 p.m. on Sunday squad, and only took 8 new play-Rut he also added that they will offonst> has lookl'd pretty good." between Keenan and Morrissey with freshman Chris Cottingham ers this year."! wish that wo had be "looking for a W this W<'.ck." 
i\ Stanford del'Pnse -which shou Id be just as entertaining getting the starling nod at quar-thirty spots." said team captain Junior quartl)rback Paul lrv\ne r<'tu ms l O of 11 starters from and hard-fought. terback. They will also start Mitch Karam. "Some of the kids will lead ()'Neill's wishbon<' lasl ynar -should give the Af'ler suffering its ilrst lost in freshman Alex Roodhouse at we had to cut were very talent-attack. as they try to grind it out off(•nsn time to develop. ThP. three seasons last year, Keenan tailback. ed." on their opponents. Hegardless pres1)ncc of senior cornerback looks to build on a young team Alumni hopes to build on the Players to look out f'or are the of the outcome. this should be Coniy llartmann and junior against an optimistic and experi-success they had last year. freshmen offensive duo along just one of several games that dl'!'Pnsivi• lirwman Josh Kaakua enced Morrissey team. The game Dominating throughout the regu-with defensive standouts Pat will make for an nxciting wcck­will kenp the defonse up to thf' will bP held at 2 p.m. lar season with a relentless Paquctteand.lohnSalivilno. endfullofgrc1atfootball. task of dPaling with Dillon's 
Knenanbringsavcryyoungr ----------­
,

Dlfonsivt~ arsnnal. l()am to the field. particularly on That olfonsive arsenal will only 
defense. where they have to ~ 
go as frtr a<; iL,; backlidd takf,s it. :'.1place many _graduated senio~s Junior running bar.ks Chris l ht! dfJense 1s lead by captam 
1 

Crane and .I.P Camardo, along linebackers Ilerb Giorgio and 
I
10% OFF
Kiss vour lake ID [B\1] moo moo ~ 
I MAIN I
STREET 
FOOD PURCHASE
Hope vour dav is N'SYNC I 
I Happy 21st Jan (with coupon) 
I I I I 
I The Best Real Pizza I I in Sou th Bend! I 
I I
Featuring a "Full-Service" Beverage Menu 
I Located around the corner from BW-3's I I Phone Ahead I 
Dine-In or Carry-Out
I I 
Outdoor Patio
Tuesday, September 19, 2000 
I I
7:30 p.m. 

110 N. Main Street
Little Theatre ,.......,,,c....,.~ 
I I 
MO~~/ 
For ticket information contact (Jfl.:o'!Ji."!J.!}-,,, 
I 234-2777 I
the Saint Mary'.s College Box Office, 284-4626 
L-----------.J 
Friday, September I 5, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 39 
TOM KEELEY

FOURTH AND INCHES 

Fox TROT 
ALON(:, WITH THE

I NEVER KNEW THE 
e-BASl<ETSALL TEAM,

SCHOOL HAD AN 
THE e-BASEBALL TEAM,

e-FOoTSALL TI.AM. 
THE CYSERGotF TEAM•.•
/ 
WE'RE
0 
~ NEW. 
BILL AMEND 

IT'S THE. 21ST CENTURY.  NICE  THE  
LET'S FACE 1T-A  MARBLE  VENTURE  
PUREL'I' ANALo<:,  OUR  PILLARS.  CAPITAL  
SPORTS DEPART­ TRAININ(:,  CLUS WAS  
MENT IS A  FACILITY  VERY G,ooD  
RELIC OF  IS JUST  To US.  
THE PAST. \  UP AHEAD.  1  
I  '  
J  

TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 


-
.,. 

Wasn't untll 1990 that the university decided to abandon Direct Access Registration by Telegraph In favor of the more user-friendly telephone. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Guillermo's 
1 They may "good" deliver a pair of 32 GMC truck socks model 
6 Step across the 34 Walked through 
Seine? 
a campground? 9 Record acronym 
36 Vino choice 14 Suggestions 
38 No longer under 15 View from 39 Gaetano'sArlberg Pass "good"16 Friend of Porky 40 Aid for a group17 "Harold and photo

Maude" director 42 Film producer 
18 like some 
Spiegel

strolls 20 Raid a Southern 
45 All-natural food garden? 
no-no 22 Bucket, maybe 46 Drinking 23 Keyboard abbr. problem 24 They're on the 47 Darkening horizon: Abbr. 
50 Human 26 Spanish root resources 
word? department? 27 Glove material 53 You may be in it 29 Ship material on the highway 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

NAN 0 SLEW 
54 Ballerina 
balancer 55 Shouting 56 Gas: Prefix 
57 Lavern Baker's "I Cried " 58 Loon's lack 59 Harbors 60 Old silver coins 
DOWN 1 Bomb 2 Hook up: Var. 3 Bailiwick 4 Bass line 
players 5 Give a do to 6 Hill on which 
Romulus lived 7 Something to 
shake 8 Kind of cord 9 Kind of 
supervision 10 Indian wrap 11 Starbucks stock 12 league leader 13 Strike sticking 
point 34 Heroes' resting 19 Fishing place

expedition? 

35 They put out21 That which high-frequency
separates the sounds 

men from the 36 Fraud finder:boys? 

Abbr. 
25 Jamaican pop 37 English Channel 

28 Pops 

port29 de veau 
41 "Four Essays on (French dish) Liberty'' author Berlin 31 L.A. Sports 42 Bridal wreath Arena team shrub 33 Cartridge 43 Like some contents giants 

44 Ann _, first 49 About to erupt woman to sign with the N.B.A. 
51 Bank offerings 46 "Nuthin' But a 
52 Ophthalmological'G'Thang" study
rapper 48 Pertaining to the 53 Peru is part of lungs, e.g. it: Abbr. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420·5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ J .-.lilr 4""·',j :·, -IS W 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Barbra Streisand, Shirley MacLaine, Stanley Kauffmann, Eric Bogosian 
Happy Birthday: Don't try to push all your great ideas at the same time. You need to back up and get your priorities straight. Challenges are likely to stand in your way, anil if you are trying to do too much, you will fall short of your expectations. This fast-paced year will require focus, understanding and dedication on your part in order to reach your goals. Your numbers: 8, 19, 23, 28, 
34,49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take hold of your future. You must put your financial situation back on track. Start rebuilding your resources. You have the ability and the energy to make the changes necessary. 00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
You'll change your way of thinking if you let your lover influence you. Ulterior motives are possible and must be considered before you make a commitment from the heart. 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You'll get into a disagreement if you push your opinions on others. You won't be willing to listen or give in to the suggestions that are offered. Don't let your stubbornness make you look 
bad.0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You need to get out and join in events that will include the whole family. You'll be admired by those less talented for the tremendous organizing job you did in order to plan such a fun-filled 
day.000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll face troubles at home if you confront your partner with the things that you don't like about your relationship. Expect to get an earful and to spend the day by yourself if you aren't 
EUGENIA LAST 

diplomatic. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-SepL 22): You've got the travel bug. Don't hesitate to pack up and take off. You need a break, and now is as good a time as any. You need to cast your fate to the 
wind.000 
LIBRA (SepL 23-0cL 22): Finan­cial limitations will contribute to your depression. Talk to an older, established individual about your current situation and get some hints on how to budget yourself a litt1e·bet­ter. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct: 23-Nov. 21): You need to express yourself physically. Don't let interaction turn into a debate that will put a damper on your love life. "Make love, not war" should be your motto if you want to enjoy yourday.00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec.. 21): Make plans to get out with friends or sign up for a challenging event that will keep you busy. You can mix busi­ness with pleasure for favorable results, but don't get intimate with clients. 00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Attending informative events will lead to valuable knowledge that will help you get ahead. Be careful while traveling. You will be preoccupied with the knowledge you've acquired. 
000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Be careful not to say something that will set off a temper tantrum at nome. Try­ing to make changes will be like pulling teeth. It is best to sit back and relax for the time being. 000 
PISCES (Feb-19-March 20): 

Spend some time with individuals you regard highly. Their conversation will help you solve some of the per­sonal dilemmas that have been caus­ing you grief. 000 
Birthday Babr. Your friendly nature will lead you in some interesting direc­tions throughout your life. You must learn to refrain from letting everyone know your business. 1he more secretive you are, the less chance there will be of you getting taken advantage of. 
~t ''t. 

seconds
---.11; 

, "1jolo -&;oopm st10.3o 
$2 per individual 
friday and saturday 
Go ND...Beat Purdue! 
-
• 
-
Fall Hall Ball Men's and women's inter­hall action kicks off this weekend on Stepan and McGlinn fields. PORTS 
pages 38, 34 
OTHE 

-
page 40 BSERVER Friday, September 15, 2000 

WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Irish take show on road at Invitational 
By KEVIN BERCHOU 
Sports Wrirer 
Thr. second-ranked Notre Dame wnmen ·s soccer team will compete in the Portland adidas Invitational th.is wcek­e n rl looking to continue a rPcnnt run of success. 
Th,~ Irish have been surging as of' late, and are coming off impressive wins against top­10 opponents the Santa Clara Broncos and the Stanford Cardinal. After beating two West Coast tea.ms at home. Notre Dame will take its show on the road when it heads west to take on the 15th­ranked Washington lluskies and the 23rd-ranked Portland Pilots. 
Both teams are undr.foated and will present chal)Enges for Notrn Ilame. 
"Thr,y'll both bti pretty con­l'iden t." said senior captain r\nne Makinen. "I'm sure thcy'rp looking f'orward to getting a shot at us." 
Makinen hopes the 5-0 Irish can avoid a letdown al't!w last weekend's impressive show­ing. 
"I think we're ready to get going again," she said. "Al this point. there's no reason to think we're not going to get tested." 
The Huskies will be looking for their first victory against the Irish, who lead the all­time series 3-0. Additionally. the Huskies must overcome a poor record against top-10 opponents (3-29-2) if they are to defeat the Irish. 
The Huskies have their best shot at besting the Irish this time around. They have amassed a 6-0 record, includ­ing a monumental upset win at Santa Clara, snapping the Broncos' 45-match home 
see JRISH/page 32 


MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish get 
ready for 
Orangem en 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Following two consecutive losses which saw Lhc tr,am lose both their homn and con­ference openers despite con­trolling the ball in nach game. the Irish men's soccer team (1-2-1, 0-1-0 conference) travels to Syracusn University on Saturday searching for their first Big East. win. 
The gamr, follows a wr.ek off in which thc team prac­ticed hard lo regroup from the two losses. 
On Scpt. 9 the Irish fell 2-0 to Boston College despite being evnn with tlrn Eagles both in shots taken and time of possession of' the ball. 
That loss followed a heart­breaking 3-1 loss to then No. 21-ranked Bradley in which Notre Damr, took 25 shots while Bradley only managed seven. 
"We had a tough week of practice. so I think the guys are a lot more focused." said senior tri-captain Steve Maio. "After the two losses I think the guys know what it takes to win games no matter who we're playing. We've been putting forth a good effort all week and hopefully it'll carry over into Saturday and the rest of the season."· 
The Irish will field a slightly different lineup when the whistle blows. 
Sophomore Erich Braun, last season's Big East Rookie of the Year. returns from a hamstring injury to make his 
see SOCCER/page 38 

MEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
Defending chrunpion Knott opens season agai~st Fisher 
playoffs last year." said Fisher receivers. because we have so many offen­best in the league last year,"By ANDREW SOUKUP, 
co-captain Dahx Marrs. "I think The Wave also have an expe­sive weapons," said Knott co­Pawloski said. "This year, theyCOLIN BOYi.AN and 
it's safe to say we're motivated rienced defense. Junior co-cap­captain Brian Pawloski. can only improve." Knott's JOHNNY LEITNER 
this time around." tain Dean Koralis leads an elite Fifth-year senior Mario ruthless defensive line will have Sports Writers 
Many can expect lo see the linebacker corps that includes Suarez returns at quarterback to play perfectly to stop Fisher's smash-mouth football team that Ray Aftandilians, Andrew to lead Knott's high-powered. powerful running attack, Who said regular season carried Fisher to the semifinal Wagemaker. and Justin balanced offense. When Suarez anchored by tailback Zach. games don't matter? lasl year. "We're just going to Westervelt. ''We're pretty solid," isn't throwing to receivers Allen. 
Sunday's in te rha 11 l'ootba 11 keep powering through the mid­Koralis said. "We've got a lot of Jonathan Smith and Pawloski, If Knott can force Fisher to go season opener between Fisher dle," said Marrs. "We've spent guys coming back, and I think he's most likely handing off to to the air. freshman Brian and Knott is more than just a most of our practices working that will make a big difforence." running back Pat Virtue. "Pat Schmutzler could make season opener. It's a rematch of on our offense, teaching the However, Fisher's veteran loves to hit," Pawloski said. Levkulich's day miserable. last year's semifinal. which young guys the plays." defense will have a difficult time "He'll see someone coming at "I go up against Brian in Knott won 7-0 in ovf'rtimP. on Quarterback Byron Levkulich containing Knott's versatile him. and he'll actually lower his scrimmages, and he's easily the their way to the interhall cham­will direct the Wave aerial offense. shoulders and initiate contact." best corner l'vo fac1id off pionship. assault, and junior Steve "I think you'll see tht1 ball Knott is just as dominant on 
"They knor,k('d us out of the Dohnrty is one of Fislwr's top spread out a lot more simply defense. "Our defense was the see GOLD/page 22 
-------·----­


vs. Washingron
at OlivetVolleyball Saturday. 12 p.m. Sarurday, 12 p.m.
SPORTS 

Lady Seminol Classic ar Tall;1ha,see, Florida
ATA 

Friday -Saturday vs, Purdue a1 Syracuse Sacurday, 12 p.m. Saturday, I p.m, 
GLANCE 


page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 15, 2000 
game hype 

"I know I can play and have confi­dence in my abilities. I really am 
Gary Godsey ready.· Irish quarterback 
"i,osin_q Battle provides no safety netfor me or this football team. All it comes down to is how we play as a 

Bob Davie 
football team... 
Irish head coach 

"We Created last week's game like the National 
Championship _qame and we're treating this week the same."
Brock Williams Irish comerback 
"/ really don't think there's any kind ofa defense or a 
scheme that's going to leave us ine}Jective. " Drew Brees 

Boilermakers quarterback 

Irish look to answer question marks 

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associate Spores Editor 
Notre Dame enters Saturday's showdown with No. 13 Purdue with two Touchdown Jesus-sized ques­tion marks -how the Irish quarterback will play and whether the defonse can slow down Purduo's Drew Brees. 
Can sophomore Gary Godsey, a quarterback who has never taken a college snap, adequately fill the abyss let\ by Arnaz Battle's absence? 
Godsey projects a confident demeanor, but taking the field before 80,232 rans hungry for victory could throw off even a poised veteran, let alone a rookie recruited as a tight end. He will need receivers Joey Getherall, Jabari Holloway and Dan O'Leary to do a better job of getting to the ball since Godsey cannot run tho option like Battle. 
"The concerns would be it's a first-time experience again," Irish head coach Bob Davie said. "Not knowing what Gary is going to do, how Gary is going to react. Taking away the creativity that Arnaz had or the ability to make plays is certainly a concern as you go in." 
Notre Dame's running backs must carry a little heavier load as well. Battle led the team in rushing against Nebraska, and without him on the field, tail­back Julius Jones and Co. have 107 yards to make up. 
The Irish defense proved it can stop the run against the rush-oriented No. 1 'Huskers last week. The Irish limited their opponents to 21 points during regulation despite spending most of the dav on the field. They clam.pod down on the 'IIuskers during the clutch, holding them to 24 yards on 11 plays in the final three possessions of regula­tion. 
But the defense, playing without senior captain Grant Jrons, goes up against the wind this week. Purdue is the No. 1 team in the nation in total offense, utilizing a pass-happy attack that Notre Dame has not yet met the likes of. In the quest to shut down Brees, another inter­ception by free safety Tony Driver or corner­back Shane Walton wouldn't hurt. 
"Anytime you have a high-caliber quarter­back like himself' 

IBrees] up for the ERNESTO LACAYO/The Observer I Ieisman and with his 
Tailback Tony Fisher (No. 12) attempts to run over a Nebraska 
ability to complete a lot 

defender last week. He will be a key part of this week's offense.
of passes, it's a chal­lenge for the sec­ondary," strong safety Kicker Nick Setta is a flaw­

Hon Israel said, "What we 
less six-for-six in points after have to do is just lock in on touchdowns and two-for-two 
what he does best, and that's in field goal attempts this sea­
throw, and lock in on the son. The Irish average 37.6 
receivers." 

yards per kick return, a num­A special teams display like ber bolstered by Jones' 100­last week could easily alter the yard touchdown return last game's outcome. 
week, and Getherall dashed back an 83-yard punt return against Nebraska. 
"l think it all boils down to making tackles in the sec­ondary, and if the receiver does catch the ball, not letting him get yards after the catch," Notre Dame cornerback Brock Williams said. 


.-~ff?Effln'f,~r-, 1 Large, 1 Topping 1 Large, 1 Topping 
r------, 

I I I I Papa Predicts:
I I I I
2 Large, 2 Topping 2 Liter 
I $13.00 I I $12.99 I 
L------.J L----.--.J NOTRE DAME -31 
1 ~.l~";ag';N'T,,.m'or-, • -ra"m"ff';Spec1al" -, 
PURDUE 16 
I Lorge, 2 Topplr,g ancJ 4 I Lorge w/Wor1c, ­
I I I I 
Can, of 1 Large, 2 To,:,plng
I I I I
Coco-Cola Cloulc $17.99 orI $10. 99 I I Ex Ira Large $20. 99 I
L______..J 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's
L------..J 
271-1177 271-7272
.-------, .------,
Lale Nigh/ Special Grand Papa
I I I I 
9pm • 1 om 1 Extra Large, Monday-Thursday 11 am -1 am
I I I I
Lorge On1;1 Topping 2 Toppings Friday-Saturday 11 am -3 am
I I I I
$7.99 $70. 99
L______..J Sunday Noon -1 am
L ______..J 

"The most popular # on campus" 

Friday, September 15, 2000 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Godsey takes helm of Irish offense 
. Florida native came to Notre Dame a tight end 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sporrs Fditor 

Godsey
Gary Godsey sat in his home two yr..:trs ago as Irish head c·oarh Bob Davie tried to con­position: quarterback vince him to come to Notre year: sophomore 
Dame. 
awards: USA Today honor­
!fad Davin told Codsey, thPn a 
able mention All-America
senior at Jesuit I ligh School in 
pick in high school, rated
Tampa. Fla., that Im would emerge as Notro Dame's start­25th nationally by Chicago ing quarterback in the third Sun-Times, rated one of game of' his sophomorP season, 
top 25 Florida prospects by
(;odsey would have packed his 
Palm Beach Post, team
bags and caught the next flight 
captain and MVP. two-time
to South Bend. 
"I ~rew up loving Notre all-state selection Dame," Godsey said. "I guess it notables: completed 12 of23 was just right. I was going to 
passes for 148 yards in 
Catholic school and I knew 
2000 Blue-Gold .final 
that's what I wanted to do." 
spring game, has not seen
But it was not that easy. 
Davie refused to recruit varsity action. Godsey as a 4uartcrback, hut two yMrs and an injured start­ing signal caller later. Davie is be ready and Twill bo ready." counting on the sophomore to Ready or not, Heisman-candi­pull the Irish through the rest of date Drew Brees and the the season. Boilermakers plan to steamroll 
"When I went into Gary through South Bend and leave G"dsey's house, I said, 'Look, with their unblemished record we're not going to recruit you as intact. Much of Purdue's glory a quarterback because I gave has come from its fifth-year my word to some other young quarterback Brees, but the man IC.J. Leakj that I would only Boilermaker defense is nothing 
take one quarterback and he's to shrug at, especially with an told me he's corning. 1 know untested quarterback at the Irish that's going to stink. You have to helm. sit dmvn and you have to make a With the loss of quarterback dncision if you want to come to Arnaz Battle to a broken navicu­
Notre Dame as a tight end. Is it lar bone in his left wrist, Davie worth it to you?'" and the Irish need to alter the Luckily for Davie and the Irish offense to tailor it to Godsey's it was. strengths. The 6-foot-7, 235­"What can you say, it's Notre pound sophomore cannot run Dame," Godsey said. "That's all the option, a big blow to an Irish there is to it: it's Notre Dame." strategy that prided itself on 
Godsey could have gone to any Battle's proven ability as a of a number big-name schools, scrambler. including Purdue, as a quarter­"Arnaz created so much back recruit, but the lure of the offense on his own," Davie said. blue and gold was too strong for "You think back to the A&M a young man who grew up in the game, the linebacker comes one shadow of football greatness. time completely clean, smacks 
His father was a star at him on the blind side; he breaks Alabama, while his older broth­tackle, spins outs of there. ers have made names for them­Another time a corner comes, 
selves at Air Force and Georgia hits him right flush in the back Tnch. again; and he makes the play. 
Regardless of the outcome of You go to the Nebraska game, Notre Dame's matchup with No. 1st and 20, he scrambles for 43 12 Purdue, Godsey will also yards out of the empty forma­make a name for himself after tion. He was able to create plays Saturday. within our offense, and our 
The Irish hope it is a good one offense is built on that. Taking 
- Godsey  away the  cre­ 
knows  it  ativity  that  
will be. "I know I can play and have  ''This is what you wait for as a football player. I have a chance right now  Arnaz had or his ability to make plays is certainly a con­ 
confidence  and it's kind oflike I was  cern as you go  
in my abili­t i e s . " Godsey  thrown into it, but that's just how football is. "  in." Even though the option is not  
said.  "I  much  of  an  
reallv am lreadyl. This is what  Gary Godsey quarterback  option, no one on the Trish sideline is ques­ 
you wait for  tioning Godsey's  
as a football  abilities behind  

player. I have a chance right the line of scrimmage. 
now and it's kind of like I was "[The offense] will not be limit­thrown into it, but that's Just ed in any way because it is Gary how football is. You have to Godsey," Davie said. "We'll just do some different things. It's obvious we're not going to do as much, if any, option with Gary in the game. I'm not giving away any secret there. But we're going to throw the ball -maybe in some situations a little bit better. If he gets into a rhythm and gets comfortable, I'm totally comfort­able with him." 

Godsey, who played the quar­terback position for only two years in high school, proved he was capable of leading the offense in the spring drill's Blue and Gold game. 
"The spring was really impor­tant," Godsey said. "I hadn't played in front of people in a year -since high school. I was able to get a feel for the stadium and it gave me some confi­dence." 

The then-No. 2 quarterback completed 12 of 23 passes for 148 yards. 
Godsey's debut in the Blue and Gold game is nothing compared to the spotlight that will shine down Saturday on the rookie. 
'Tm getting a lot of help from the other guys in practice," Godsey said. "They're picking their levels up to help me out. The thing I need to be ready for is just going out on the field -I know things are going to come at me a lot faster in the game." 
If Godsey's work ethic and dedication is any indication of his ability to rise to a challenge, Davie is confident in his new quarterback. 
When Godsey knew there was only a slight chance of him ever controlling the ball for the Irish this season, the tight-end recruit slimmed down from 260 to 235, studied the offense and refused to be discouraged by Notre Dame's decision to recruit three freshmen quarterbacks. 
"Gary Godsey did not tuck his tail. Gary Godsey did not trans­fer. Gary Godsey sat and kept working," Davie said. 
It is that work ethic that the Irish will be counting on Saturday when they step onto the field. 
"Its the fear ofthe unknown. "Ifeel more comfortable
birthdate: March 16. 1981
up close & 

You can hope he goes out there about the situation right now
hometown: Tampa, Fla. 
andfocuses andjust acts like than I did [when Battle 
dorm: O'Neill Hall 
it's another practice." replaced Jackson at USC]."
personal 

major: business dimensions: 6-Joot-7,WITH GARY GODSEY 240 lbs. Kevin Rogers Bob Davie offensive coordinator head coach 
page4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 15, 2000 
Fighting Irish 
Sep. 2 TEXAS A&M w L

DUE at --igat) State STANFORD 
Oct. 21  at West Vi'rginia  
Oct. 28  AIR FORCE  
Nov.11  BOSTON COLl.EGE  
Nov. 18 at Rutgers Nov. 25 at USC 



fourth season at Notre Dame 
career record: 
22·l7 
at Notre Dame: 
22-17 
against Purdue: 
1-2 
Roster 
No.  N,1me  rm,,  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
1  llnK·k Williams  CB  5-10  l'IO  SR  
C~rlns Pit.trrt ... Antoim~ 11.B  6-'.I  242  JH  
2,  IJan Nov,,kov Amdz Rdttll!'  Qn QD  6-1 6-1  220 218  so JR  
5  Ron bral'l  5.5  b·O  208  SR  
f,  D.ivid Given.-.  l'I  6-3  217  JR  
7  Carly It• lloliday  QI!  6-2  190  FR  
8  l,on•nzo Crawford  WR  5-11  175  FR  
y  Jam.l Clari,.  Qll  6-4  220  FR  
to  Matt LoVecchiu  QB  6-3  200  FR  
10  Ryun Kru~gL•r  (JB  5-Y  178  JR  
11  Jay Johnson  SE  5-11  195  FR  
12  Tony Fisht•r  TB  6-2  225  JR  
11 l.l  NickSdt,1 flJt' Rect't1dt•z  K/1' 6-0 QB/TE v-O  175 222  so SR  
14  CaryGud&•y  (JB  6-7  240  so  
15  ('IHfurd Jdforson  Ol  5-9  ISO  JR  
16  Abram Elam  QII/DB 6-1  1<;()  FR  
17  J<><'Y I lildbuld  I'  5.10  1<;()  so  
18  J,,.y Cetht•rall  Fl  5-7  175  SR  
19  Clennl~d  s_<;  6-2  215  so  
20  CL•mmL• Sapp  FS  b-0  210  FR  
21  J,lVin Iluntt•r  SE  6-0  186  JR  
22  Julius Jones  Tll  5-IU  201  so  
2.l  Chris Yurd  FH  5-11  211  so  
24  Ch,1d Dl'llolt  CB  5-10  193  so  
25  Tony Drivt•r  FS  6-2  220  SR  
2o  Carron Bihll•  Rfl  5-10  HIS  l'R  
27  j,1st1nBt..••.:btn)m  Cl!  !HO  190  so  
211  llon•ld Dykes  ss  5-11  1'15  JR  
29  fustin Smith  I'S  5-11  143  SR  
29  llri,m Oleniczak  Fl  5-11  195  SR  
.10  Jfo,:ky Jx,im,m  OJ.ll  l>-4  240  JR  
11  l>w,1ynt• Fnmd.s  CH  6-0  1'15  JR  
32  TL•rrc1nct• I lowuc.f  rn  b·l  145  JR  
:u  Colirtm.·y Wdtsun  II.II  6-1  220  so  
14  Vunl~l Duff  RH  6-1  175  FR  
)-1  jrt.scint Vukl•ht:h  l'B  5-10  229  SR  
3.5  l l•vid Mill,·r  K  5-1)  l'il  JR  
35  TimO'Nt•iU  TH  5-5  170  JR  
'.l6  Tom l.opicnsk1  rn  6-1  245  JR  
JII  Prt•;!..ton larksnn  DI!  5-10  172  f'R  
'.lll  Eri1.: Nelson  LB  6-()  225  JR  
:w  Anthony (..>t_,nmdn  !LB  6-2  235  SR  
41)  J,1son Murrily  FB  6-l  259  SR  
·II  M1k,•Goulsby  Ul  6-4  225  l'R  
42  ShaneW.ilhm  Cll  5-1 I  18-1  JR  
4J  Anthony Brannan  ILB  5-IO  215  SR  
·14  Crant Irt.ms  DE  6-5  275  SR  
45  Matt Sarb  ss  5-11  201  IR  
41,  Jl'n•my JLJ.-,r('L  Fil  5-1 I  251  SR  
47  Mik,• 11,kNair  FD  6-0  240  JR  
4H  Kyk Budin~ak  DI  ft-5  250  l'R  
49  IJ,m•kCurry  Lil  6-4  225  FR  
50  l.'t·dric Milti,,rd  DT  6-2  290  so  
51  Tyrt'n I larrison  11.B  6-2  242  Jll  
52  JdfJ:.1irw  C  6-3  2n  so  
52 ,1  Mark Mitch,•11 JclS«m l lalvon.c.in  01.[l Ill  5-1(} 6-2  220 2.10  SR so  
"'  I.Lli~i Rao  11.ll  5-10  215  SR  
55  Jim Jont•s  ex;  6-2  310  SR  
51,  P,tt Ryan  11.il  n-3  235  so  
.57  Juslin Thum.ts  ()l.(l  6-l  2{5  so  
511  Jos.•ph Mtll'll,·r  I.II  5-11  195  SR  
59  Krit1n Dien·kman  II.II  6-1  255  SR  
oO  llam•II C,mpbell  DI'  6-4  285  so  
hi  Mik>.•Zt'i,•nl-,1  Fil  6-0  225  SR  
c,2  CaSt'Y Rohin  OT  n-7  305  SR  
b1  Bn•nndn Curtin  OT  6-8  315  so  
M  John Cruwih,•r  C  6-2  240  JR  
c,5  ::it•.in Millii.an  oc  6-4  2%  :;o  
11{,  JW Jordan  C  6-1  275  SR  
1,7  l<yc1nGilJi~  UC  6-3  292  so  
6Y  Mikd:•ndy  oc  t,-4  315  SR  
71)  jjm Moltnaro  DE  6-6  265  so  
72  Ky•n Scarola  OC  &-5  301  jR  
73  Ad,1m T1bbk  K  t;.11  201  JR  
75  Kurt V<>lil'll'  or  6-7  31U  SR  
76  J,,hn Tedt'dal~  or  &-5  305  SR  
n  t..:rc~ Pauly  DI  6-1,  275  l'R  
711  /ordan flla,·k  or  &-6  :no  JR  
7'-i  St!an M.th,m  OT  6-3  28li  JR  
HO  Um.ir j(•nldns  WR  1,-2  180  FR  
HI  jl•rome ~()lhns  WR  h-4  200  l'R  
82  Konn1c lfodnml•r  WR  1,-4  IRS  t'R  
H2 RJ  Ht•m,uJ Ak,1tu Jo,,h Gt:ntill•  SE KIP  t;.10 t;.lJ  !RO )9\1  /R so  
84  johnOwc•rn,  Dli  6-3  265  JR  
RS  Jdtn•y Campbell  Tli/DE  b-1  200  JH  
Rb  Dan O'Leary  TE  6-:1  260  SR  
87  f,ribad I [olloway  Tf.  6-3  260  SR  
8K  hwan Withcm,po,,n  WR  6-4  205  FR  
8'1  G<.•tald Mor~,m  TE  6-4  261  IR  
90  1..inc,• l.ei;n"'  NC  h-1  285  SR  
YI  Andn'W Ot•mpsey  DF.  6-2  265  SR  
92  M,lltMcN,•w  K  6-3  2m  SR  
93  B.). Si.-ott  ITT  6-3  290  SR  
94  AndyWibnt•  DT  6-3  272  SR  
95  Ryan Roh,·rt>  DE  6-2  251  JR  
96  Billv Palnll'r  TE  6-3  250  FR  
98 '19  Anthony Wt.•ave,r Jas<>n Sarr  DT 1.8  .6-3 6-3  276 230  JR FK  


IN POSITION: secondary 

Observer Staff Report 
Attempting to tie down a Heismau candidate is no easy task, but it's one the Irish secondary plans to accom­plish Saturday. 
Senior free safety Tony Driver is Notre Dame's second-leading tackler with 20 on the vear. The 6-foot-2, 220­pounder addfld° a 19-yard interception return against Texas A&M. If he con­tinues in the same way, he may fulfill 
DEPTH CHARTS 
presenson All-America predictions. 
Joining Driver on the secondary is a veteran lineup in senior cornerback Brock Williams, junior cornerback Shane Walton and senior strong safoty Hon Israel. 
In two games, the Irish have been called for five pass interception penal­ties, a mistake they can't afford to repeat, especially not with All­American quarterback Drew Brees in town. On the up side, they have added two interceptions. 


Boilermakers schedule 
Sep.2 CENTRAL MICHIGAN W 

w 
Oct. 14 at No em Oct. 21 at Wisconsin Oct. 28 OHIO STATE Nov. 11 at Michigan State Nov. 18 INDIANA 

fourth season at Purdue 
career record: 
66-42-1 
at Purdue: 
27-12 
against Notre Dame: 2-1 
Roster 

No.  N.amc- Pos.  Ill.  Wt.  YR  
2  Tim Olmsh.•~d  Lil  6-2  235  so  
2  Gary Hca~am•  WR  6-3  185  FR  
J  Monlrcll Lowc.>  RI!  5-8  18n  so  
4  Brandon Hance  Qfl  6-1  185  FR  
5  Chris Jamt•s  WR  5-10  180  so  
6  Oeaunte Fcrrt~H  Rll/CB  5-11  185  FR  
7  Ashante Woodyard  CH  1,-2  204  CB  
8  Ralph Tum,•r  ss  6-2  209  so  
9  Shwrt Schwt>igL~rt  WR/DB 6-3  194  FR  
lO  David Edgerton  QB  6-1  221  SR  
11  Scott Kurz  K/1'  6-1  194  JR  
12  Antwaun Ro_g-l'rs  CH  6-2  15H  FR  
B  Akin Ayodcle  DE/1.ll  6-J  247  JR  
14  Vinny Sutherland  WR  5-9  188  SR  
15  DrPW Brt't"'S  Qll  6-1  220  SR  
16  Gilbert GardnN  WR  6-2  205  WR  
17  Ben Smith  FS  6-3  209  jR  
18  Kci th Dawson  WR  6-3  206  JR  
18  Jon Getz  ss  6-1  184  so  
19  R'Kes Starling  CB  5-7  187  JR  
20  Chuck McQuaid  CB  5-11  20()  Cll  
21  Taylor Stu~blefidd  WR  6-1  165  WR  
22  Rich GiJlcres«..•  RB/DB  6-2  195  FR  
23  Chris Clopton  CB  5-7  170  SR  
24  Joey Harris  RB  5-11  200  l'R  
25  Donald Winston  WR  5-6  160  SR  
26  Carl Buergler  vu  6-0  207  so  
27  Davt•on WalkPr  ss  5-10  182  FR  
28  Jacques Reeves  CB  6-1  180  FR  
2Y  Ailron Levin  r  5-11  185  FR  
30  Travis Dorsch  K/1'  6-o  212  JR  
31  Brandon Robinson  RB  5-10  194  so  
31  Sean Morris  co  5-6  158  so  
32  Corndl Middlcbn,ok  LB  6-2  225  so  
33  Jare<lCurth.  CB  5-9  IM  so  
33  Drew Wltchgn  K  5-10  180  so  
:l4  Nikt1 Koutouvidt•s  LB  6-3  230  FR  
35  Marcus Hill  CB  5-8  156  so  
36  Sedrick Brown  RB  6-1  242  so  
37  Bryan Jacquay  CB  5-8  167  SR  
38  Brady Doe  FS  6-0  188  JR  
39  Jon Goldsberry  RH/LB  6-3  215  FR  
40  Kevin Nesfield  LB  6-3  221  so  
41  A!l'x Tone  LB  5-10  210  JR  
42  BrC'nl Botts  DT  6-3  265  DT  
43  Daniel Giles  DT  6-1  237  so  
44  Steve Ennis  RB  6-0  218  so  
45  Jacob RoWL'  RB  5-9  213  so  
46  Tom Vaughan  ss  6-0  199  SR  
47  Landon Johnson  Lil  6-2  217  so  
41!  Tim Upshur  ss  6-1  205  JR  
49  Eric Reynolds  Lil  6-J  200  so  
50  Brian Dinkins  DE  6-2  263  SR  
51  Joe(hlom  Lil  6·2  223  so  
52  Max Miller  C  6-.1  282  so  
53  Shaun PhilliJ>s  DE  6-3  239  so  
54  Rob f'uml'r  0G  6-4  30!  so  
55  Ian Allen  OG  6-5  290  SR  
5ii  Chukky Ok<'bi  C  6-1  316  SR  
58  Warn•n MooTt'  DE  6-3  253  SR  
59  Doug Swann  LB  6-5  215  FR  
60  Kury Smith  LS  6-1  225  so  
61  Mikl' Gumt'l'  C  6-2  32n  JR  
62  Vedran Dzolovic  DE  6-3  239  so  
n.1  Dave Owen  DE  6-6  255  FR  
li4  John fames  LS  6-5  265  JR  
65  Chad Martin  OL  6-4  256  FR  
66  Jason Eisele  01.  6-5  248  FR  
68  Kelly Kitchc•l  OT  t,.6  286  SU  
69  John Shelbnum,•  15  6-6  264  so  
70  Sean Rufolo  oc  6-2  291  JR  
71  Kelly Rurter  OT  6-8  285  FR  
72  Jnsh Kirkpatrick  OT  6-D  2!14  )R  
73  Pal Mt1.nkin  oc  6-3  287  JR  
74  Nick Pilipauskis  OL  6-2  246  so  
7S  TylNMoon:  01.  6-7  255  r-R  
76  Raf,wl Dcni,ra  TE  6-0  230  SR  
77  Brandon Corin  OT  6-6  294  SR  
78  Matt Light  OT  b-5  297  SR  
7']  Gene Mruczkowski  0G  6-2  2~  so  
so  A.T. Simpson  WR  6-4  222  JR  
81  Chris Randolph  TE  6-4  252  fl{  
82  Juhn Standcford  WR  6-4  180  FR  
83  Andre Hendt>rson  WR  6-3  195  FR  
84  Seth Mordlcs  WR  5-lll  [65  so  
85  Court Stepht... ns  m  n-3  265  SR  
86  Joe RPa  rn  6-2  203  JR  
117  Roc1.~o Poggio  DE  6-5  291  SR  
88  Jasun Loerzel  LB  6-3  213  JR  
89  Tim Stratton  Tli  6-4  250  JR  
90  Derrick Williams  Dl  6-4  308  SR  
91  Jordan Dame  TE  6-3  292  so  
92  Crai11 Terrill  DE  6-3  272  so  
\13  Pete Lough,<cd  TE  6-5  270  so  
94  Luke Burroughs  DE  6-4  223  FR  
95  Jody C.oatley  DT  6-3  260  SR  
96  Mike Lawrence  DT  6-5  265  FR  
97  Bernardo Nino  DE  6-3  292  JR  
98  Matt Mitrione  DT  6-3  2?8  JR  
99  Daemron Grirr  DT  6-1  302  so  

Friday, September 15, 2000 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 
EYE ON THE ENEMY 
Stopping Brees will be tough task for Irish 
against the Irish. While he has passed for a total of 578 yards in the last two games with Notre Dame, Brees has also tossed three passes into the hands of Notre Dame defenders. Two years ago, Notre Dame's Tony Driver intercepted a pass at game's end and returned it for the game-winning touchdown. 
"Our whole entire focus is on Drew Brees and their offense, from a secondary perspective," strong safety Hon Israel said. 
Notre Dame's secondary will spend the day W1der pressure as Purdue senior Vinny Sutherland olTers a sure-handed mark for Brees. The wide receiver caught six passes for 86 yards and two touchdowns in his first game of the year. Freshmen John Standeford and junior tight end Tim Stratton complement Sutherland. 
The Irish should be in better position to stop the Boilermakers on the ground. The Boilermakers employ a balanced, but less-used rushing game. They average 
156.5 yards rushing per game, but only sophomore Sedrick Brown runs for more than 35 yards per outing. 

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN . 
Associate Spom Editor 
Notrn Dame fans may be look­ing at this year's Heisman Trophy winner Saturday when Purdue quarterback Drew Brees blows into town. 
Tho Fighting Irish hope 1.hPir only view of Brees wilJ be of the senior quarterback on the ground after being sacked by a Notre Dame defeuder. 
A year ago, Brees was sacked just 15 limes, or once every 38 throws. He finished fourth in Heisman balloting a year ago after passing for 3,909 yards and throwing 25 touchdowns on the sea.'ion. This year, he's an odds­on favorite to walk away with the Heisman. 
"They come in with the poten­tial Heisman Trophy winner at quarterback," Irish coach Bob Davie said of the Boilermakers. "They are the No. 1 college team in football right now on total offense. They have an opportuni­ty, I would think. to red letter in this game." 
Despite all his success, Brees still has something to prove 
fast facts 
ABOUT PURDUE 

. 
Location: West Lafayette, Ind. . Enrollment: 36,878 

. 
Colors: Old Gold and Black 

. 
Nickname: Boilermakers 

. 
Conference: Big Ten 

. 
Fight Song: "Hail Purdue" 


Purdue's defense is imposing on paper, having given up only 
1.0 points on the year. At second glance, however, the quality of their opponents wasn't so great. Purdue's first two opponents were Central Michigan and Kent State, teams that went a com­bined 6-16 in '99. 
The loss of Notre Dame's start­ing quarterback Arnaz BattJe should give the Boilermakers cause for a big sigh of relief, since their defensive roster was decimated by graduation. 
On special Learns. Purdue kick­er Travis Dorsch ic; three for four on field goal attempts this year, and averages 52.2 yards per punt. Tho Boilermakers' punt return and kick rnturn crews are strong. but thfl Irish have squeezed their first two oppo­nents into poor showings. 
"There might not be many times where guys arc getting tackled and helping each other off the ground," Brees said. "This might be one or those games whert'l you Just try to knock their heads in the dirt, talk a little bit, gflt back in the huddle, go out and try to do it again." 
. 
Notre Dame and Purdue have met for 55 straight years -lied with USC for the lrish's second-longest rivalry-behind only Navy. 

. 
Purdue has not won a game at Notre Dame since 1974. 




AROUND THE NATION 
Friday, September I 5, 2000 A LOOK AT THIS WEEKEND'S COLLEGE J<'ooTBALL ACTION page 6 
Associated Press Top 25 
team  record  points  
1  Nebraska  1-0  1,736  
2  Florida Slate  1-0  1,725  
3  Michigan  1·0  1,513  
4  Wisconsin  1·0  1,493  
5  Texas  1·0  1,391  
6  Florida  0-0  1,345  
7  Kansas State  2-0  1,334  
8  Virginia Tech  1-0  1,263  
9  Washington  1-0  1,245  
10  Southern California  1-0  1,119  
11  Tennessee  1-0  964  
12 13  Miami (Fla.) Purdue  1-0 0-1  901 824  
14  UCLA  1-0  805  
15  Alabama  1·0  773  
16  Clemson  1-0  766  
17  Ohio Stale  1-0  612  
18  Oklahoma  1-0  591  
19  Illinois  1-0  528  
20  TCU  1-0  487  
21  NOTRE DAME  1-0  398  
22  Michigan State  0-0  354  
23  Georgia  1-D  166  
24  Auburn  0-0  150  
25  Southern Mls!!issippl  0-1  125  

ESPN/USA Today poll 
team rer:ord points 
1 Nebraska 2-0 1,461 2 Florida State 2-0 1,415 3 Michigan 2-0 1,336 4 Florida 2-0 1,241 5 Wisconsin 2-0 1,165 6 Texas 1-0 1,137 7 Kansas State 2-0 1,124 8 Virginia Tech 2-0 1,113 
9 Tennessee 1·0 916 10 Washington 2·0 875 11 Southern Calilornia 2-0 842 12 Purdue 2-0 797 13 Alabama 1-1 707 14 Miami (Fla.) 1·1 669 15 Ohio Slate 2-0 597 16 Clemson 2-0 572 17 UCLA 2-0 564 18 Oklahoma 2-0 469 19 Illinois 2-0 438 20 Michigan State 1-0 326 21 TCU 1·0 321 22 Georgia 1-1 283 23 NOTRE DAME 1·1 163 24 Auburn 2-0 115 25 Colorado State 2-0 111 
Observer experts 
NOTRE DAME 
FLORIDA 
MICHIGAN 
PITTSBURGH 
Season Record 
4-4 
NOTRE DAME 
FLORIDA 
UCLA 
PITTSBURGH 
Season Record 33 
Nonrn DAME 
FLORIDA 
UCLA 
PENN STATE 
Season Record 
4-4 




GAME OF THE WEEK 

By PEYTON BERG Sports Writer 
Florida hosts the annual game for SEC East supremacy, pitting the No. 9 Volunteers against the No. 4 Gators in The Swamp. Last week, Georgia lost a key conference game when it fell to South Carolina. This loss will give the winner of Saturday's game a decisive early edge in the conference stand­ings. 
Forget statistics, these two teams don't like each other. 
Gator fans saw last year's 9-4 campaign as a losing season, and look to contend for the National Championship once again. Look for another vintage contest that showcases speed, hard hits, high­octane offenses and plenty of trash talking on both sides of the field. Once again, the game will proba­bly come down to special teams and who can run the 
OTHER Top GAMES 
Michigan at UCLA 
UCLA sent shock waves through the college football world when they soundly defeated then-No. 3 Alabama. For an encore, the Bruins will attempt to knock off the current No. 3 for the second time in three weeks. 
Michigan is quietly planning to crash the BCS party in January, largely thanks to a soft schedule and a deep stable of returning offensive talent. 
Wolverine tailback Anthony .Johnson earns the designation as the most over­rated running back in college football, despite what ABC TV's Brent Musberger would have you believe. Behind offensive linemfln Steve Hutchinson and Jeff Hackus, even Michigan coach Lloyd Carr could rush for 1,000 yards. 
Impressive talent exists at quarter­back and wide receiver as well. Due to Drew llenson's broken foot, freshman John Navarre has enjoyed considerablP playing time. Wideouts Marquise Walker and Oavid TPrrell form an ball more effectively. 
Florida coach Steve Spurrier demands nothing less than perfection from his quarterbacks. This is the reason why he routine­ly plays two per game, and has even rotated quarter­backs every other play. Look for incumbent Jesse Palmer to start, but highly­touted redshirt freshman Hex Grossman will likely see significant playing time. 
Tennessee is in a rebuild­ing year after losing eleven players to the l 999 NFL 
explosive receiving tandem. 
Penn State at Pittsburgh 
Rivals collide at Three !livers Stadium in order to decide the State Championship. 
Penn State has struggled early this sea­son, limping to a 1-2 record. The Nittany Lions continue to struggle at quarter­back, where Rashard Casey has not been able to play well consistently. The defense sorely misses end Courtney Brown and linebacker LaVar Arrington. 
Head coach Walt Harris seems to have the Pittsburgh program heading in the right direction. The Panthers defeated the Irish in the final game at Pitt Stadium last year, but ended up 5-6. They have depth at all of the skill positions, but the line remains a question mark. 
Pittsburgh's success hinges on catching Ponn Stafo looking ahead to its Big IO opener at Ohio State. The Panther line­backers, the strength of the defense, must stop the run and force Penn Statn to throw. 
draft. The nucleus of the l 998 National Championship team has since departed, and head coach Phillip Fulmer must now turn to inexperienced but talented youngsters. 
Junior tailback Travis Henry is sensational, aver­aging ovflr 6 yards pp,r carry last year. Middle linn­backer Eric Westmoreland is the Ione remaining starter from the 1998 tflam, and looks to lead the Volunteer defense against the Gator attack. 
around the dial 
California at Illinois 
r r a.m., J,,'SPN 
Florida at Tennessee 
2:30 p.m., CBS 
Indiana at Kentucky 
5 p.m., ESPN2 
Michigan State at Missouri 
6 p. m., HJXSN LSU at Auburn 
6:30 p.m., ESPN 
Texas at Stanford 
9:r5 p.m., FOXSN 

Friday, September 15, 2000 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 7 
quarterbacks: Brees is a offensive line: The Irish are special teams: Purdue's kicker favorite to win the much-improved here, but Dorsch missed three field 
the inside 
Heisman Trophy. the Boilermakers rarely goals in last year's bowl 
p p Even
Godsey has never allow their Heisman game, but was otherwise 
played in a college prospect tu get sacked. strong. Sutherland set a
edge •
• 
game. school record on punt returns. Setta has been per­fect this year, and Jones
defensive line: Even with-

records: 1 -1 running backs: This is and Getherall broke for 
out Irons, Notre Dame 

A.P. rank: No. 21 one of the strongest huge returns last week . Overall 
stuck it to Nebraska, a

• 
positions for the Irish, Even
coach's poll: No. 23 The key to the game will
good sign. Purdue 

especially with the tal­
coaching: After the past be how well Godsey
returns alf-Big Ten play­

ented Jones at TB. The 
p 
two weeks, Davie'ser Akin Ayodele. steps up in his first col­Boilermakers' top back precords: 2-0 stock is rising. Tiller lege start at quarterback.is Montrell /,owe. has turned Purdue's
A.P. rank: No. 13 
This is the biggest ques­
linebackers: Denman

coach's poll: No. 12 program again with
• 
and Boiman are among three straight bowl tion mark and most unex­
receivers: Purdue lost its Notre Dame's tackle game berths. pected downturn forEven top two receivers, but leaders. Purdue lost 
Series Record Notre Dame after losing
returns honorable men-
most ofits linebackers 

Notre Dame: 46_23 _2 tion All-Big Ten player from '99. intangibles: The Irish are Battle. While the Irish Sutherland. Notre highly motivated after won't be able to stop
leads Purdue 

Dame's receivers were secondary: Driver was a 
a close loss to the Brees, they need to at ­shaky against Nebraska, 'Huskers. They need to 
• 
preseason All-American, least contain him .
but have potential to prove that their play
but needs better help to 

shine. was no fluke, and that
counter Brees. The 

they can survive with­
Boilermakers are fairly 

out Battle and Irons.
weak at this position. 

IRISH INSIGHT 
Freshmen QBs struggle to adjust 
When then-Syracuse quarter­backs coach K•win Rogers recruit­ed Donovan McNabb out of Mt. Carmel High School in Chicago, he coveted the quick, elusive signal caller as the Orangemen's top prospect. 
By the time McNabb arrived in upper New York State in the fall of 1994,he looked more like a dud than a stud. 
"He was raw, real raw," said Rogers, now Notre Dame's offen­sive coordinator. "He had trouble throwing spirals. He wasn't even dose to being ready. He wa.'i no better than the three guys we got here." 
Those three Irish players ­Jared Clark, Matt LoVecchio and Carlyle Holiday -may all be freshmen quarterbacks. But unlike McNabb, who redshirted his first year , the trio is only one injury away from making the most dilli­cult transition in college sports: High school quarterback to true freshmen starter at a major Division 1 program. 
With Arnaz Battle's broken wrist sidelining the Irish starter for at least six weeks, coach Bob Davie has turned the reigns over to sophomore Gary Godsey. Behind Godsey, who has never taken a snap in a college game, are three freshmen, just four months removed from the Senior Prom. 
"We had Dan Marino at Pittsburgh as a true freshman and he didn't even start," said Davie, of his days as an assistant at Pitt from 1980-82. "You've got to be a special guy to do it." 
And with Davie's luck (certainly not the "Luck of the Irish" as lazy scribes like to write every time Notre Dame wins a close game), one of the three may end up start­ing before the conclusion of the 2000 campaign. 
Bad news for Irish fans. 
That's not a criticism of any of the freshmen. It's just history talk­ing. 
Battle was the last Notre Dame freshman quarterback to play in a game. Against use in 1998. he came off the bench and completed 7 -of-19 passes and threw two interceptions. 
Then there are the Irish starters before Battle. Jarious Jackson did not play as a freshman, Ron Powlus broke his right clavicle in the final scrimmage prior to his rookie year in 1993 and Rick Mirer never started in 1989 playing behind Tony Rice. 


And Rice, who led the Irish to their last national title in 1988, sat out the 1986 season as a Proposition 48 non-qualifier. then came off the bench in 1987 before replacing injured starter Terry Andrysiak. 
Terry Andrysiak playing instead of Tony Rice? 
Sounds odd now. But during Lou Iloltz's second season, Andrysiak was a senior, a veteran. And Rice was an unproven sophomore. 
Maybe in the 2003 or 2004 sea­son, when one of the three current freshmen are starting, Trish stu­dents will look back and say the same about Gary Godsey. 
For now, Godsey is the man. Not as much for his physical skills or potential but rather because of his knowledge of the system. He understands the Irish offense, has taken snaps against a "live" defense, has been around the pro­gram for a year and has the confi­dence of his teammates. 
How important are those assets to a quarterback? 
Ask Ronald Curry, the University of North Carolina's current start­ing quarterback. 
When he came to Chapel Hill in 1998, Curry was the most highly recruited player in the country, maybe the most sought after quar­terback ever. An NFL Films crew followed him around Hampton High School in Virginia. He was everybody's high school player of the year. 
At the start ofhis first season, Curry was the backup behind Oscar Davenport. But after Davenport suffered an injury, Curry took the helm. He struggled, completing less than 45 percent of his passes, throwing six touch­downs and seven interceptions. 
Any advice for true freshmen quarterbacks, Ronald? 
"T would recommend being red­shirted," Curry said on Wednesday. "There's so much you can learn in that year -being big­ger, faster, seeing the guys every day. That can really be a bonus. Instead of learning on the run you can learn by watching." 
Curry would know. He grew up overshadowing another Vrrginia native, Michael Vick, currently the Heisman Trophy front-runner. While Curry was suiting up against the ACC's finest, Vick was a red­shirt, watching his Virginia Tech teammates and adjusting to col­lege life. One year later, Vick led the Hokies to the national champi­onship game. 
Vick's closest preseason com­petitor for college football's most prestigious award, Purdue's Drew Brees, only completed 19-of-43 passes as a true freshman backup to Billy Dicken in 1997. The next year, he was the Big Ten Offensive Player of the Year. Last season, he was fourth in I-leisman balloting. 
The list of freshmen flops to future stars could go on and on. 
Holiday knew the difficulties he would face when a package arrived from Rogers this summer. 
"When the playbook got to my house I was like 'What is this?'"' Holiday said. "It was like Playstation or something. And that one wasn't even that big. Now it's huge." 
When they arrived for preseason camp, the freshmen made another adjustment. 
"At my high school, we'd get more of a pre-snap read and just throw off of that." Clark said. "Now we've got to read the men as we drop back. It's a lot tougher. Things happen so quick, you've got to make a decision in an instant." 
The three 18-year olds can point to another example to boost some confidence. 
After sitting out his freshman year, McNabb was a three-time Big East Offensive Player of the Year, set league records for pass­ing yards, touchdown passes, total touchdowns, and total offensive yards and was the No. 2 pick in the 1999 NFL Draft. 
And now, six years later. he is the starting quarterback for the Philadelphia Eagles. 
Clark, after an outstanding career at Cardinal Mooney High School in Sarasota, Fl., has learned at least one thing during his first two months here. 
"It's a lot more waiting than you think you're going to do but you've got to realize everybody goes through this," Clark said. "You've got to tell yourself, just be patient, be patient. ·when you get in there, make the most ofit. That's what r keep telling myself. 
"I have a lot more respect for people who play as a true fresh­man now than I ever did, even red­shirt freshmen. A lot more respect. It's a whole different deal than I thought it was." 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Saturday's game is last call for Purdue 
The two words the Irish hate to hear most are "last call." 
This is Purdue quarter­back Drew Brees' last call. This is the. 
last Keith Thomas time 
Brees gets to Assistant blow Sports Editor into The Purdue 
South ExponentRend and avenge the 31-30 Notre Dame win of two years ago at Notre Dame Stadium. Brees hopes that come Saturday afternoon, the Irish's new least favorite words are Purdue Boilermakers. It's also time for this Boilermaker squad to make the Leprechaun leap from football team to football program. Of course the media has put this pressure on the Boilers to take the next step every season since gentle­men Joe Tiller rode in to West Lafayette on his white horse from the Wyoming Cowboys program he helped turn around. And yes, the pressure to improve was doubled last season amid high expecta­tions of being able to play with the tough kids in the conference. So, why say the same things that were said just one year ago? Because it didn't get done. It's that simple and you won't find anyone involved with Boilermaker football that disputes this claim. Now, after beating up on a couple of MAC teams ­outscoring Central Michigan and Kent State by a total of 93-10 -it's time for Purdue to take that step and take advantage of the Limping Irish, who lost some key players last week against No. 1 Nebraska. Considering Purdue still plays Big Ten bullies Michigan, Penn State, Wisconsin and Ohio State, beating Notre Dame Saturday afternoon in front of a sold-out Irish crowd is absolutely vital to the sue­
cess of this Boiler season. 
Notre Dame won't be a 
pushover either. They're 
coming off of two well-· 
played football games, 
beating Texas A&M and 
taking the 'Huskers to over­
time. 
And ~!though Notre Dame is starting an untest­ed quarterback -thank you, Nebraska -it is still Notre Dame. And, it's still in South Bend. 
However, now that the Irish are done tap-dancing through the Big XII, please allow the Big Ten to show you why you didn't want to join this conference (i.e., playing five to seven top-25 caliber teams every year). 
Purdue fans, believe it or 
not, do have some love for 
the Irish. They may even 
thank Notre Dame for 
accepting former Boiler 
head coach Jim Colletto, 
thus allowing Joe Tillerific 
to enter and show this gen­
eration what it feels like to 
win football games. 
Brees has been upgraded 
to a strong wind when com­
pared with the 1998 team 
that visited Notre Dame, ·and he's hungry for 
revenge. 
He said he hasn't been 
able to forget about that 
game and won't until he is 
able to lay it (or the Irish 
secondary) to rest. 
With a win on Saturday, 
Purdue will have the most 
wins witnessed by the 
"Touchdown Jesus" at 
South Bend by an opposing 
team with 10 -one more 
than USC and Michigan 
State. 
It all starts in South Bend 
for the Boilers, who want 
more than anything this 
week to remain guardians 
of the Shillelagh Trophy. 
Ifthe Boilermakers want 
to stop being the Rodney 
Dangerfield of college foot­
ball, they have to prove 
they can win the big games. 
This Saturday's noon con­
test with the Limping Irish 
is certainly no exception. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


-
! ­
' 
•. 

i, 
... 
-

There's a million reasons to shop 
, , , 
GO e e e 
MEIJER HAS ALL YOUR TAILGATE PARTY NEEDS!! Mishawaka South Bend 5020 Grape Road 3600 N. Portage Road 273-3500 273-3400 






