
Grinch won't steal many fans 
Hit the road' Chad? 
Movie critic Gunder Kehoe says "Dr. 5'euss' 
Thursday
More than a million ofthe disputed election 
How the Grinch Stole Christmas" has a little 
ballots in Florida will make the trip today to the 
too much Jlollywoodfor its own good. 
slate capital. 
NOVEMBER 30, 
Scene . page 14 
News . page 7 
2000 

The Independent Nl ;,vspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIV NO. 62 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Finnigan's bust nets some students $100 fines 
their student accounts. I know I did something wrong," she assessment.
• ND Res Life hands out 
"The University expects that. all its said. "l\fy parents were really angry "There's a range of sanctions ... forpunishment to minors students will act responsibly in their because they had to pay for my mis­violations that range from a verbal cited in Oct. 13 bar raid off-campus social conduct so as to take, and that just warning to a perma­
reflect favorable upon themselves and nent" dismissal," he
perpetuates this irre-"Conduct which results in
the University community," read let­sponsibility." said. By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY ters received by two students from Shoup said that your arrest is clearly In choosing which '.',rews Editor director of Residence Life Jeff Shoup. both the parent and sanction to enforce,
below the standard ofoff­
"Conduct which results in your arrest students names the office considers 
campus conduct the
is clearly below the standard of off­appear on student past cases involving Several students cited in the Oct. 13 campus conduct the University expects accounts bills. University expects ofits similar situation and raid of Finnigan's Irish Pub received a of its students. Students may also consults duLac for
students. " 

$100 fine shortly after returning from "As a result of your involvement in pay fines by cash or specific disciplinary Thanksgiving break, according to stu­this situation, a [$100] fine will be check in the guidelines. dents who were in the bar when it was assessed to your student account." Residence Life office. Residence Life letter Shoup declined to raided bv the Indiana State Excise One student who was received a let­Shoup said that speak specifically
Police. , 
ter felt that charging student accounts fines are one means about the Finnigan's 
The students reported that they and was an inappropriate way to collect us!'d by his office to sanction students cases and assistant vice president for their parents received letters from the the fine. found "to have violated duLac. Other Residence Life Bill Kirk said that he Office of Residence Life stating that "If they want to hold studr.n Ls possible punishments could include the fines would bo charged directly to responsible, make the students pay it. communHy service or an alcohol see FINES/page 6 
Going the disJance for a child 
SMC professors look overseas to fulfill their adoption needs 
By JESSICA NEEDLES 
News Writer 
For many couples, adoption offers a chance to begin a family. Several Saint Mary's professors have made additions to their lives via other countries, adopting children from overseas. 
Marc Belanger of the political science department is one such professor. In the foll of 1993 he traveled to Guatemala for the adoption of his son. who is now 8­ycars-old. Though not looking for any par­ticular ethnicity or gender, Belanger lt'aned towards Guatemala because his wife and he share knowledge of that part of the world. 
"At the time we had traveled to Latin America a lot, so we had some under­standing of the culture and history of where the child was from, as well as the issues." Belanger said. 
According to Belanger, it is important for a child to know himself while developing, questioning their identity. Therefore it was necessary to Belanger that he be prepared to answer his child's questions. 
Living in Massachusett..:; at the time of the adoption, Belanger was aware of a yearly conference with panels on international adoption. Applying to two specific interna­tional adoption agencies, Belanger and his wife arranged for a social worker to do a mandatory home study that determines if the person wishing to adopt is nt to be a parent by demonstrating emotional and financial stability. 
"In terms of adopting, we wanted to be parents and that was the only way we could be," Belanger said. 
Mary Ann Traxler, a professor in the Education department, has had more than a little experience with the processes of adoption as well. Traxler has four children whom she has adopted from Korea. Her oldest son. Nikolas. now 15, was brought home at age 3 months. Elizabeth, now 12, was brought home at 3 1/J months and 2 weeks. Traxler's son Alex, now 10, was brought home speaking fluent Korean at the age 3. Finally. the youngest, turning 6 in December, is Emily, who was brought to the U.S. at age 9 months. 

Like Belanger, Traxler was not looking for a specific ethnicity. 
sec ADOPTION/page 4 

STUDENT SENATE 

O'Donoghue gives union address 
By LAURA ROMPF Assistant News Ediror 
Student body president Brian O'Donoghue told the senate Wednesday night that the Student Union is "stronger than it has ever been." In his State of the Student U n i o n address. O'Donoghue noted the highlights of his term since he took office April. 
"We have seen the rise of the Rector's Fund. the beginnings of the Greatness Grant and more access to the Board of Trustees than was dreamed possible four years ago," O'Donoghue said. "Events like rounder's Day were still unheard of and considered unaccomplishable." 
O'Donoghue praised the staff of the office of the president, "whose names you never read in the newspaper or hear about." 
O'Donoghue said his adminis­tration still has projects it wants to accomplish. 
"There is still much to do and much more to dream," he said. "Issues of diversity and gender remain our most daunting oppo­nents, but we believe." 
O'Donoghue said the office is planning a community-mentor­ing program that will bring 

see SPEECH/page 6 
Thursday, November 30, 2000 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 

PBS 2000 
The familiar music, the little model trees, lhe sudden camera shot to the porch. and then to the inside of an unopened door. A jump back into the 60's. A step back into my childhood. 
"It's a beautiful day in the neighborhood, a beautiful day in the neigh­
borhood. would you be 
mine? Would you be mine? I 
have always wanted to have 
a neighbor, just like you to 
come with me and live in the 
neighborhood. So. let's make 
the most of this beautiful 
day. since we are here we 
might as well say, 'Would 
you be mine, could you be 
mine'! Won't you be my 
neighbor? llcllo Neighbor."' 
Hello. Mr. Hogers. 
Imml,diately I was back 

into the routine. I guess Mr. 
Hogers never left. He never 
moved into a retired living 
community or updated the curtains in the house. 
He, along with his quirky habits, remained 
untouched by the outside world since I had left 
him, some 15 years ago. 
I wakhcd him walk to the closet, exchange his jacket for a button down sweater. I watched him take his tennis shoes out and walk to the bench. I watched him take oIT his loafers, exchange shoes and tie up the sneakers. In spite of my absence, the routine didn't change. 
First, the jacket change, next the little talk on the bench, and then, the feeding of the fish. The memories continued. The timeless conversation between Mr. Rogers and the chimed bell voice of the Trolley. The Land of Make Believe. Lady Elaine fairchild. King Friday. Mr. Mcfeeley. 
Who can forget the picture that magically turned into a big television that would lead adven­tures to unknown territories? I remember my favorite place Picture Picture took us -the Crayola Crayon factory. I loved to watch the little crayons get labeled and packaged. How fun! 
But, as soon as it had begun, he was putting away the toy tree and castle and walking past the fish through the doorway into the living room. I knew it was about to be over. And, almost instinc­tively, a mn. part of my brain turned on that obvi­ously had not been used in quite a while. 
"It's such a good feeling to know you're alive it's such a happy feeling, growing inside, and when you wake up ready to say, I'm going to make a snappy today. It's such a good feeling, a very good feeling. Know that I'll be back when the day is new. and I'll have more ideas for you. And. you'll have things you will want to talk about, I will too." 
l admit, I sang loudly enough to bring onlookers. Hut. they d-idn't stare -they sang along. The singing led to an hour-long discussion of our Mr.Rogers memories and the related stories of our childhood. It was really funny. I was not alone. And better yet, I wasn't the only person who remembered all the words to the song. 
Later that evening, I called my mom. She laughed and commented; 'Tm not surprised; you always loved him." Mom also informed me of the Crayola Factory, and how I was still on the wait­ing list to take the tour. But, Mom was also the bringer of bad news. There would be no more new adventures in Make-Believe, no more speedy deliveries to the Roger house. However, luckily, the deliveries will continue in the form of reruns for many years to come. 
For Mr. Rogers -33 years and more than 1,000 episodes. For me, a lifetime of mesmeriz­ing priceless entertainment. 
So long, neighbor. 
The neighborhood won't be the same without you. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Scene  
Jason McFarley  Man Nania  
Kelly H,1ger  Graphics  
Courtney Boyl.:  Jose Cuellar  
Sports  Production  
Katie McYoy  Jeff Baltruzak  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Pac Orlewski  Naomi Cordell  

The Oli<crvrr [USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Fridoy except Juri11g exam :.1.nd vacacion periods. The Observer is a rtlC"TTibcr of chc A»o1,;i,ucd Press. All ,cproJu(.;cion righu, a.re reserved. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS  
Thursday  Friday  Saturday  Sunday  
. Acoustic Cafe: 9 p.m.,  . Concert: "A Christmas  . Asian Allure: 7:30 p.m..  . Bus Trip: Trip to  
Lafortune  Vision," Voices of Faith  Washington Hall  Michigan City outlet mall,  
. Event: "Experience the  Gospel Choir, 7:30 p.m.,  . Play: Shakespeare's  tickets available at  
Extraordinary," with Craig  Hesburgh Library  "Comedy of Errors,"  LaFortune for $2, bus  
Karges, 7 p.m., Carroll  Auditorium  7:30 p.m., Auditorium of  leave at 9:45 a.m. return  
Auditorium  . Billiards: Tournament,  the Hesburgh Center for  at 5 p.m., Library Circle  
sign-up 7:45, play begins  International Studies  . Advent Lessons and  
at 8:30 p.m., LaFortune  Carol: 7:15 p.m., Basilica  

Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
University of Washington TAs to strike Monday 
SEATTLE Despite potential effects of the 
After nearly two years without 'There's no reason why strike. president Hichartl McCormick recognition by the University of [the administration] can't reiterated that the universitv would Washington administration, the not officially recognize GSEAC with·
recognize us. It's the right 

Graduate Student Employee Action out legislation that defines TAs as Coalition (GSEAC) plans to strike thing to do. " employees and enables them to next Monday, if the administration engage in collective bargaining with does not voluntarily recognize the the Board of Regents.
Melissa Meade 

TA union by the end of this week­There are three main reasons for
GSEAC committee member

end. not moving forward without a leg­"We're giving [McCormick] a dead­islative framework, McCormick said. line of Sunday," said Melissa Meade, Most significantly, it is illegal for the
said. 

GSEAC organizing committee mem-University to enter into a collective
"We'll be picketing all over cam­

ber. "If [McCormick} voluntarily rec­bargaining agreement without the
pus." Meade said. 

ognizes the union, the strike can be benefit of a law, McCormick said.
"There's no reason why [the

overted." Secondly, a legal framework would
administration] can't recognize us,"

Without voluntary recognition by be a mutual benefit for both entities,
Meade said. "It's the right thing to 

the administration, UW teachers' he added. He also said that there are
do. We've made our choice and 

assistants will turn in all their mate­33 unions representing different fac­
we're asking McCormick to honor 

rials and will forgo their duties, tions of University employees, which
that choice. One thousand TAs want 

beginning Monday morning, Meade are set up through legislation.
collective bargaining." 

TUFTS UNIVERSITY 

Students seize campus building 
Twenty-five Tufts University students barricaded themselves inside a key campus administrative building Tuesday, vowing to stay until the universi­ty's president strengthens a non-discrimination poli­cy. As of early Wednesday morning, 16 protestors were occupying Bendetson Hall, which is in the cen­ter of campus, despite threats of arrest from police. The students came prepared with enough food and water to last through the week. They entered the building around 9 a.m., according to witnesses, and gave Tufts staffers a type-written note explaining the reasons for the sit-in. They also gave displaced staff members a batch of home-made cookies. Their letter demands that university president John DiBiaggio clarify and strengthen the school's nondiscrimina­tion policy. The takeover is the latest episode in a yearlong debate over whether a bisexual student was unfairly denied a leadership role in the Tufts Christian Fellowship (TCF). 
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 

Netanyahu calls off speech 
Former Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu canceled his speaking engagement at a Berkeley the­ater Tuesday night after a crowd of' angry anti-Israel protesters stormed the theater's gates. Netanyahu was scheduled to address audiences at the Berkeley Community Theatre as part of a speaker series. but the Berkeley Police Department advised him to cancel the event because of the hundreds of protesters. The crowd, while non-violent. pushed forward as soon as ticket-holders began to line up outside of a square­shaped barricade designed to keep those without tick­ets at bay. "If you have tickets. go to hell," screamed some of the protesters as community members lined up to enter the theater. Hostilities climaxed when event officials began escorting ticket-holders -one at a time -through the barricaded area and into the theater. Fifteen to 20 people were already inside the theater when Barbara Lubin, director of the Middle East Children's Alliance, and two other women single-hand­edly broke the barricade. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather fl.ecast f<rdaytime conditions and high temperntures 
\ 

, ...---~-/ 

Friday Satur 

ay 

Sunda~ 
I 


~ 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Mondcty
l 


High Low Showers Rain T•storms Flurrios Snow Ice Sunny Pt Cloudy Cloud
Tue~~Y . 
Via Ass/Xlaled Pmss 

r. M,··,. ,,. ,.,,.,
t'\.,...-' .. \v 
Atlanta 57 33 Las Vegas 61 52 Portland 50 40 BaWmore 43 38 Memphis 53 36 Sacramen!O 56 38 Boston 41 28 Milwaukee 36 26 St Louis 51 42
Q,~,Q4Q,Q~ ~ u 
Chicago 40 30 New York 38 32 Tampa 68 54
Showers T-storms Ra,n Rumes Snow Ice Sunny Pt. CIOI.Jdy Cloudy 
Via A590<:iared Press Gmptila,Nat Houston 64 53 Philadelphia 44 28 Washington DC 43 30 


Thursday, November 30, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
·-~ 
There's more than one road to success. 
Priests discuss chaplains in military 
ByTlM LOGAN Senior SraffWriter 
One Wednesday evening almost 10 years ago, Father Bill Dorwart went for a walk along the flight deck of the aircraft carrier where he served. 
lt was a calm and peaceful evening. eerily so, and the usually talkative aircraft mechanics moved silently among their planes, which sat on the runway, engines off, wings folded. 
As the orange sun set down into the Persian Gulf that evening, Dorwart watched three young sailors fasten a bomb to the wing of one of those quiet planes. Before morning came, that bomb would be dropped on Iraq in one of the first sorties of the Gulf War. Dorwart knew this, and he said a prayer. 
Dorwart served as a chap­lain in the U. S. Navy from 1985 until 1991. Wednesday night he talked about his experiences, and shared his reflections on being a chap­!ain during the Gulf War, when he was one of three clergy members for 5,000 servicemen on a carrier in the Gulf. 
Father Tom Doyle, a chap­lain for Notre Dame's ROTC program, also spoke, and the two discussed the call to min­ister for the military. 
They focused on the impor­tance of pastoral care of young soldiers, of being there for them to talk to, and of being a messenger of Christ among them. 
"I think it's important to tend to the hearts of these people who will have a lot of responsibility," Doyle told the 
audience. a mix of Pax Christi mem­bers, ROTC students, seminarians and others at the Center for Social Concerns. "People who are good people, made in tho image and likeness of God." 
Doyle also 
discussed the role of a chap­lain in the ROTC program. He meets individually with Notre Dame freshmen who are training to be officers, to dis­cuss why they are in the pro­gram and what they hope to gain. He and the other three ROTC chaplains also make themselves available to stu­dents who have questions about their faith and the mili­tary, and who seek guidance. 
"/ think it's important to tend to the hearts of these people who will have a lot of responsibility. People who are good people. made in the image and likeness ofGod." 
Father Tom Doyle ROTC chaplain 

Dorwart, who had served in the Navy before entering the priesthood, said that he had wrestled with moral questions as a Catholic chaplain during the war. He is personally a pacifist, but said that the call to care for the men fighting, and struggling with the rami­fications of that fighting, overrode any anti-war senti­ments which might have led 
of the people there." 
"I couldn't abandon those sailors and say Tm outta here because I don't believe in what you're doing."' 
The talk was sponsored by Pax Christi -Notre Dame, as part of their ongoing series of dialogues about military ser­vice titled "A Way to Peace, or Peace is the Way?" The group will have more dia­logues in the spring semester. 
him else­where. 
"I did find myself on occasion won­dering whether I should be there, because of the kind of war it was," Dorwart said. "But in the bottom line, it came down to pastoral care 

J 
*HOLY CROSS COLLEGE Notre Dame, Indiana 
219-239-,8400 
www.hcc-nd.edu vduke@hcc-nd.edu 
. 
' 

Many students are discovering the advantages of an alternate career route: starting their educational journey at atwo-year college like Holy Cross, and ending it at afour-year institution such as Notre Dame or Saint Mar)"s. 
At Holy Cross, you'll receive a Catholic-centered liberal arts education that parallels core courses at four-year institutions. Then, armed with yuur associate of arts degree, yo1J can finish your education at the schaol of your choir:e. 
Yes, there are many roads to choose from, but only one destination: your success. 
., 200() Holy Cross College 
Ombudsperson acts as adviser at ND 
with discrimination, he said.
By MARJBEL MOREY 

Some people felt discriminat­
New.Writer 

ed because of their disabili­
ties. Others did not think they 
Notre Dame can seem pris­were being treated fairly tine and magical when first because of their race, gender stepping on campus. But the or sexual orientation. administrative policies deter Most of his cases come from some members of the Notre staff members because stu­Dame family -faculty, staff dents and faculty use other and students who are facing outlets. discrimination. From sexual "Students are more com­orientation to gender and fortable going to their rector," race discrimination, he said. "If you live in a dorm. University Ombudsperson you go to the rector. If you Kevin Misiewicz hears the live off campus, you tend to complaints. go to the Office of Residence 
As an ombudsperson, "I Life." help the person with clarify­Misiewicz has received a ing their situation and getting positive reaction from the a better grasp of their administration. options," said Misiewicz, who "The administrative people is also an associate professor were sincerely interested in of accountancy. the interests 
When faculty, of the per•
"The idea was to come
students or staff son subject­have a question up with somebody that ed to dis­
about their people could come and criminatory 
options, they harassment.
talk to confidentially.
can go to But this Misiewicz. And [to serve] as an does not 
However, this objective source of mean that 
non-paid things
information for 
administrative always got position gives clarification. " resolved," him no authori­he added. ty in adminis­As the
Kevin Misiewicz
trative change. third person
University Ombudsperson
He likes to refer to hold this 
to himself as a 
facilitator usually helping 
people see their options. 
The ombudsperson position 
was established six years ago 
when the University was 
revising its stance with homo­
sexuality. 
"The idea was to come up 
with somebody that people 
could come to and talk to con­
fidentially," he said. "And [to 
serve) as an objective source 
of information for clarifica­
tion." 
Businesses and corporations 
usually have an ombudsper­
son, but they generally have 
more authority to intervene in 
situations than Misiewicz has 
at Notre Dame, he said. 
In the first year, he worked 
with 15 faculty, staff and stu­
dents in their individual 
cases. A third of these cases 
dealt with serious experiences 
America's Leader in Student Travel 
Beat the price hikol 
Get your rail pass at 2000 prices and travel in 
2001 
*Passes must be validated within 6 months from date 
8E1
of purchase. 
GROUP 


position, University president Father Edward Malloy appointed Misiewicz to the position 2 1/2 years ago. 
All three professors had already received tenure when appointed ombudsperson and also have large families. As a tenure faculty, "Unlike any­one else, we are much more secure in our positions," he said. "It's easier for us to ask some tough questions. And we are also more firmly rooted here." 
Though he and Malloy have never physically met, Misiewicz is still in the process of sending the University president an overview of his first year as ombusdperson. 
"I need to send something to Malloy showing him my first­year experience to make him aware of several things to changes to make in adminis­trative rules, to make the University better," he said. "But that's between me and him." 
-
ERASMUS BOOKS 

-Used Books bought and sold 
-25 Categories cfBooks 
-25,000 Hardb&ck and Paperback books in 
stock 
-Out-of-Print scdrch service 
-Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesdau through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
Jrisb Jtibe 
www.iri shwea r. com 


Thursday, November 30, 2000

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Adoption 
continued from page 1 
"It just sort of happened," Traxler explained. 
Traxler and her husband used the international adoption agency Bethany, with its head­quarters close in Indianapolis. Bethany worked with HOLT, an adoption agency in Korea. Both are reputable and well orga­nized. 
"Everything went as expect­ed," Traxler said. "It just seemed like the right choice." 
Traxler and her husband start­ed looking into local adoption agencies 16 years ago, but were unhappy with the long 3-to-5­year wait that accompanies adopting in this country. She also would have needed to take a mandatory six months of from work, forcing her to quit her job. 
"When we came up with no real possibilities here locally, I discovered Bethany," Traxler said. 
With adopting, for Traxler "The most important thing was having a family ... it's just the most wonderful thing I've ever done in my whole life." 
Janice Pilarski, Program Coordinator in the department of justice, also adopted a child internationally. She recently brought home a little girl, now 12 months old, from China. 
Although open to adopting a child or any ethnicity or gender, Pilarski and her husband decid­ed on China for different rea­sons, mainly because of China's one child policy. 
This policy. which allows 

Chinese couples only one child. is 
a population control measure 
mandated by the government. 
Since there is a bias towards 
having male children in China, 
there arc many girls in need of 
homes. 
Another reason concerned 

Pilarski's three biological sons. 
In some countries, adoption is 
limited based on the number of 
children one has. China. howev­
er. is a country open to having 
more children in the family. 
This, along with the country's 
restrictions on female children, 
led the Pilarski's to China. 
"My husband and I felt strong­

ly that we wanted to add a child 
to our lives at some point," 
Pilarski said. "When we looked 
into places available, we were 
\. . ,.., 'r'AMsYPoOuRWTishsll ...__,,
._ Q·.,-­
../ \ PURSES, WAI.LETS, CHANGE PURSES, INCENSE SARONGS 

DIRECT IMPORTERS! LOW PRICES! 
ALSO.. 
HUGE MOVING SALE! 
ALL CLEARANCE ITEMS MUST GO OR THEY WILL BE DONATED' 
UNIQUE CHRISTMAS GIFTS! 
Proceeds from sales ofjewelry guarantee the loving hands ofGuatamalan families l 1imes their average salary as well as funds for their education Lafortune -Room I08 (Near Telephones) NOV. 27 -DEC. 2 (SAT) I 0-Spm 
t~H &ivth Nil~ A~'!:lrt!J'.!! 
So1in Bend.. l11di.ana ~11 



drawn to China because of the country's one-child policy." 
When looking into adopting a child internationally, Pilarski's lirst resources were others who had been through the process. 
"I had known some people who adopted internationally, so I knew the basics," Pilarski said. 
Adopting from another country can involve a lot of work, from travel to having fingerprints taken. For this reason, people typically work with an agency to guide them through the process. There are some countries that will bring the adopted child to his or her new parents, while others, China included, involve one or more trips. 
Since Pilarski and her husband have three other children, they were unable to travel together. Pilarski traveled to China in August, where she was able see the country and better under­stand the culture and society her child is a part of. 
"It was really a wonderful experience to soak up the cul­ture and get a good understand­ing of the background she's from," Pilarski said. "It was an intense trip. but the people who were part of our adoption agency in China thought it was important for us to understand the culture." 
During her stay in China, Pilarski visited the rural farming areas as well as cities. She found the people to be welcoming and gracious about the adoption. 
"I came away with a great appreciation of China," Pilarski said. "The real treasure of the trip was encountering people in their everyday lives." 
Many people believe an over­seas adoption is more difficult than a domestic one, but those who have gone through an international adoption disagree. For instance, there is the issue of cost. In some instances adopting from overseas can be less expen­sive. The waiting period also tends to be shorter. 
Information on international 
adoption is also more readily 
available than some know. The 
Adoption Network, Domestic and 
It'stime to aatvour ACE applicationl 
Stop by 109 Badin or go to www.nd.edu/~ace. 

LOADS OF SILVER & BEADED JEWELRY SILVER RINGS AND TOE RINGS TAPESTRY WALL HANGINGS/BEDSPRFAOS AND MUCH MUCH MORE... 
Trunk Show *Saturday* 
6:00 pm • 10:00 pm Washington Hall 
Overcome the fear of buying online. Touch, feel and try on items from your favorite brands including: 

JUICY COUTURE 
PRADA BAGS 

• Ml§§§IXTY. LACOSTE 
JAMES *PERSE 
LOS ANGELES

easel 
FENDIBAGS 


Join us before and after the 5th Annual Asian Allure Fashion Show Saturday, Dec. 2, 2000 at 7:30 pm in Washington Hall. 
Men's and Women's Fashion Clothing and Denim 
shopbop.com 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

"be the change you want to see in the world'' 
-Ghandi 

THE SUMMER SERVICE PROJECT 
• 
Devote 8 weeks to the service of those in need 

• 
Choose from 120 sites across the United States 

• 
Earn 3 theology credits (with possible crosslists) 

• 
Receive a $1900 tuition scholarship with the option for an additional $1000 Americorps Scholarship 

• 
Establish valuable contacts with Notre Dame Alumni 


Fina( /nfot'....,.,a-tiona( Mee-ting of +his Se....,.,es+e.-
THuRsoAY, NOVEMBER 30 at 7:00 PM 
At the Center for Social Concerns 
APPLICATIONS DUE NOVEMBER 27, 2000 FOR STUDENTS STUDYING ABROAD THIS SPRING 
mystery. There is information available locally. throughout the country. and on the computer. It is also a rewarding experience, as Mary Ann Traxler can attest. 
"It's wonderful," said Traxler. "[Adopting) was the best decision ofmy life." 
1
lrit!\~I 
BCBG 
MAXAZRIA 

FRENCH CONNECTION 

International Inc. (ANDI) is locat­ed in Notre Dame, Ind. ANDI is a not-for-profit charitable organi­zation that is licensed by the State of Indiana. 
There is also the Association for the Rights or Children Adoption Support and Advocacy Group, also located in South Bend. Last November, they held the Adoption Conference 2000 at Saint Mary's. The Adoption Conference provided an opportu­nity for those curious to go and learn more. 
International adoption is not a 





Thursday, November 30, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Yemeni justice system questioned: 
Suspects in the bombing of the USS Cole likely will not go on trial for four weeks. and when they do, attention will focus on Yemen's jusl.ice system -a system branded anything but just. The State Department. in its most recent review of Yemeni justice, described security forces tor­turing suspects to extract confessions, defen­dants denied lawyers and judges swayed by bribes or government pressure. 
Japan firm to pay for war brutality: 
for decades. a northern Japanese mining town where hundreds of Chinese died from beatings and torture has served as a potent symbol of Japan's brutality during its imperialist push through Asia. On Wednesday, a major con­struction company agreBd to pay $4.6 million to settle a lawsuit over wartime heatings at the Ilanaoka labor camp -a step toward healing and a precedent that will bB hard to ignore. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
NBC will wait for poll closings: In the face of criticism from Capitol Hill, NBC became the third television network to promise not to project election-night winners in a state until all the state's polls are closed. NBC and Fox News Channel also said Wednesday they were ques­tioning their participation in Voter News Service, a consortium that provides exit polling and election data to news organizations. 
Customers seek FDA needle ban: 
Consumer advocates petitioned the government Wednesday to ban four types of needles and other medical equipment whose sharp tips can accidentally stick health workers, possibly spreading deadly infections. The Food and Drug Administration has approved numerous safer alternatives to needles, syringes and other "sharps." Yet more dangerous versions contin­ue to be sold, the Service Employees International Union and the consumer group Public Citizen said. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Klan, extremist groups seem small: 
Law enforcement authorities watch about 25 Indiana groups with links to white supremacy organizations, but say those groups typically are small and disorganized. One group under scrutiny, the American Knights of the Ku Klux Klan based in Butler. has few members despite being one of the most active KKK groups in the country and organizing dozens of rallies in sev­eral states, Lt. Steven King of the Indiana State Police said Wednesday during a hate crimes conference organized the Indiana Civil Rights Commission. 
Market Watch 11/29 

Dow 
10,629.11 +121.53
]ONES 

.,, 
Composite Volume:
·.,. 
NIA 


Nasdaq: 706.93 -28.05 
~:;»~g;;~z~:i~>mZilJE•l 
S&P 500: 1341.91 -12.68 TOP5VOLUMELEADERS 
COMPANY/St:CURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE OPACLE CORP [ORCL) +0.99 +0.22 22.88 NASDAQ toll SHAR (QQQ) .J.8/4 ·2.Sl GJ.94 lNTEL CORP (INTC) ,1.71 ,0.71 42.75 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +1.3) +0.69 51.69 MICROSOFT CORI' (MSFD ·2.~0 ·l.94 65.0G 

forward, gave himself "50-The interview. taped Gore unexpectedly
Associated Press 

50" odds at winning and Tuesday night at his vice dropped by the Oval 
WASHINGTON spoke on NBC's "Today" of presidential residence at Office to see President 
In morning-and-night what life is like suspended the Naval Observatory, Clinton -a chat that TV interviews, Al Gore between victory and kicked off a full-court White House press secre­offered Wednesday the defeat. press of media appear­tary Jake Siewert most lingering glimpse yet He and his family were ances on Wednesday. Gore described as "informal inside his thoughts about prepared to win Nov. 7 gave a second interview to and private." hanging in election limbo and "sort of prepared, if it NBC for its nightly news Gore and Lieberman and being called a sore didn't go the right way, to and went on camera with met with transition direc­loser: deal with that," Gore said. anchors at ABC, CBS and tor Roy Neel; campaign 
"The only people I've "But not expecting to CNN. chairman William Daley; heard that from is from have neither outcome -Running mate Joseph vice presidential chief of partisans on the other that takes some getting Lieberman made the staff Charles Burson; side, who called me far used to." Democrats' case on Labor Secretary Alexis worse than that before the Explaining his motives, National Public Radio and Herman; Kathleen election."· the 16-year member of CNN's "Larry King Live." McGinty, former head of 
The vice president, Congress and eight-year The pair also continued the Council on accelerating a public rela­vice president told NBC: with the tentative business Environmental Quality in tions campaign as the legal 'Tm really in love with our of sketching their could-be the Clinton White House; wheels on his election democracy. That sounds administration at a White and Leon Fuerth, Gore's challenge ground slowly corny, I know." House lunch and meetings. national security adviser. 
BRAZIL 

Deported Herbert returns home 
and her former husband, James the subject.·•
Associated Press 

Herbert, he grew up in Wadsworth, His voice rises at the memory of Ohio, just another American kid. But what he feels was unfair treatment. 
CAMPINAS 
there was a difference -his parents "I got shafted," he said angrily. "The 
The unfamiliar faces smile at him never asked for his naturalization. judge never asked me about myself or
on the subway. Total strangers flash him the thumbs-up sign and wish Herbert was applying for U.S. citi­my family. or what my dreams were. him good luck. People he's never met zenship when he was arrested in She just looked at some official papers offer him a job. 1997 for selling 7 .5 ounces of mari­and threw the book at me." For Joao Herbert, deported from juana to an undercover police officer Herbert arrived in Sao Paulo two near Cleveland. weeks ago. He didn't know anyone,
the United States to a homeland he 
It was his first offense and he didn't speak the language, had no job
barely recalls, the warmth of 
received probation, but he was or place to stay. He spent a week in a
Brazilians is a welcome surprise ­and helps to ease the anger and hurt labeled a serious criminal under the homeless shelter before he was taken that won't go away. 1996 Immigration Reform and in by Michael Miller, an American Immigrant Responsibility Act. Baptist pastor working and living in
"I have been very fortunate since my arrival. People have opened their Deportation was mandatory. He Campinas. doors and hearts to me in a way I fought it for more than a year but Miller found a home for Herbert could never have expected," he said. finally gave up. with Lidia and Donizete Tarifa, two of But the 22-year-old also never "Although I did not have a piece of his 30 parishioners in the predomi­expected to be here, a stranger in a paper saying I was a U.S. citizen. I nantly Roman Catholic district. He was strange land. stripped of his home felt like one," he said. "When I was a given one of the three bedrooms over and family, living on charity in a low­
little boy going to school I had to the couple's grocery store, a small pledge allegiance to the flag. That concrete building with a red tile roof
income district on the outskirts of 
this southeastern Brazilian city, 56 made be an American citizen. And I on a dirt road. miles from Sao Paulo. became a citizen in high school "He has been here only a week and Adopted from a Sao Paulo orphan­where I learned all about American all I can say is that he is like a son," age 14 years ago by Nancy Saunders history and passed all my tests on said Mrs. Tarifa. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 30, 2000 
Fines 
continued from page 1 
could not discuss the viola­tions. citing student confi­dentiality. 
Shoup did confirm that stu­dents guilty ol' violations arc asked to suggest an appro­priate sanction. The Office of Hesidence Life considers those suggestions, but may or may not implement them. 
"We certainly consider whatever they write, but there is certainly a wide range of responses when you make that request," he said. 
Students who commit the same offense mav receive a different sanction based on the circumstances surround-
Speech 
continued from page I 
eighth graders to campus for a daylong seminar on life and leadership values. 
The office is also planning the Blessing Unto Others Christian rock concert. whose proceeds will benefit 
ing the violation, Shoup said. 
All six cited students con­
tacted by The Observer 
reported receiving the $100 
fine. 
The office does not handle 
the cases of student-athletes 
differently from those of 
non-athletes, said Shoup, 
and suspending athletes 
from competition is not an 
option among the sanctions 
available to Residence Life. 
However, Residence Life 
may choose to place a stu­
dent on probation, a punish­
menl that forbids students 
from representing the 
University in any capacity. 
including varsity athletics. 
So far none of the Irish · athletes cited at Finnigans 
have been banned from com­
petition. 
a Chilean orphanage. 
O'Donoghue closed by 
thanking the senate and urg­
ing them to continue their 
efforts. 
"I believe in you and your 
abilities. I believe in all that 
we are and all that we can 
be," O'Oonoghue said. 
"Thank for all you have 
done. Thank you for all that 
you have yet to do." 



2 pm, Saturty, December 2, 2000 
An.n.enberg Auditorium Snite Museum of Art 
Free and open to the pt1hlic 

For• more information, call (219) 631-6201, OT' visit http://www.nd.e<lu/-congoers 
120 North Main St. 
(219} 2ss.n37 
Mishawaka, Indiana 46544 
Fax (219) 259.9579 

~-~ ......~ 
Restaurant 
T.J. Laughlin 
General Manager Class of 1973 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Planners focus on SMC future 
By AMY GREENE 
News Wriri>r 
Members of the Saint Mary's Strategic Planning Committee met with the Board of Governance (BOG) Wednesday evening. Committee member 
Mary  Jo  Regan-Kubinski  
informed  BOG  that  the  
Planning  Committee  was  

formed in response ·to a request from President· Marilou Eldred. 
"President Eldred wanted people to take a close look at where Saint Mary's should be in five years," Kubinski said. 
According to Kubinski. the committee reviewed several past documents to develop a plan incorporating all the issues and concerns from the documents. 
Specific areas the committee will be addressing include curriculum, student life, diver­sity, technology, marketing and communication. These areas ·each have boards and committee members. 
Other areas of focus without specific committees include Catholic characteristics, facili­ties, enrollment, management and human resources. These areas each have a speciric person that addresses con­cerns and contributes towards the issue. 
The Planning Committee members are interested in input from the student com­munity especially, according to Kubinski. This is unique to Saint Mary's because most institutions do not allow stu­dents to sit on committees. 
"The faculty and staff received questionnaires and I encourage the students to visit the Web site to become informed about the plan and give input and suggestions." Kubinski added. 
The Web site is accessible at www .saintmarys. ed u/~cpelti­er/jcc. 
A first draft of the plan is to be completed in January. 
In other BOG news: 

. 
BOG touched on the Study Day proposal. Surveys ques­tioning the faculty's opinions regarding Study Days will be distributed to the faculty. The proposal will be further dis­cussed next semester. 

. 
BOG donated $200 to the Keenan Hevue Scholarship Fund. A mentalist and the winner of the "College Entertainer of the Year" award will be performing in Carroll Auditorium Thursday at 7 p.m. McCandless Hall's Winter Ball is Friday and the Sophomore Formal will be held on Saturday. 



Thursday, November 30, 2000 The Observer . ELECTION 2000 page 7 
Ballots head to Tallahassee 
Asooc.ia,ed Press 
MIAMI 

It will be a convoy full of chad. 
Elections workers in Miami­Dade and Palm Beach counties plunged back into their boxes Wednesday, preparing 
1.1 million ballots for a 400-plus mile trip to the state capital. 
Workers will load more than 160 silver melal cases stuITed with 462,000 Palm Beach ballots into a rented Ryder truck on Thursday. The truck will take off sometime after 7 ;30 a.m. for the eight hour drive to Tallahassee. 
Two unmarked Palm Beach County sheriffs ca.rs -one lead­ing the truck, the other following -will provide an escort. Observers for both Democrats and Republicans will likely tag along on the historic haul. The ballots have remained under armed guard al the county's emergency operations center since the recount began. 
Leon County Circuit Judge N. Sanders Sauls will take posses­sion of the Palm Beach ballots, along with 654,000 from Miami­Dade Countv, as he decides whether there should be another recount. 
Elections workers in Miami­Dade County plan to spend Thursday packing the ballots, now stored away in file cabinets at the government center. A mini-caravan was scheduled to leave Miami early Friday morn­ing, arriving in Tallahassee before the 5 p.m. deadline set by Sauls. 



"I think the ballots are going to be like the O.J. Bronco ride," 
m u s e d 
Dennis 
Newman, a 
Democratic 
lawyer in 
Palm 1-foach 
County. 
It was 
quiet inside 
the govern­
ment center 

Wednesday, nothing like last week's noisy scene when Republican support­ers yelled from outside. The can­vassing board later had stopped counting. 
At different tables, workers opened white envelopes, counted the ballots and stuffed them into fresh white envelopes, scrawling precinct numbers on them in red. 
Occasionally, someone would raise their hand to ask a ques­tion unheard behind the wall and glass window dividing work­ers from the public. Nearby. sorting machines were up and running, separating the so-called "undervotes" from other ballots. Those, too, went into envelopes. 
The ballots are being sent to Tallahassee for a hearing that could help determine whether there will be a recount, some­thing Democrat Al Gore believes would give him enough votes to overcome Republican George W. Bush's 537-vote margin victory in Florida. 
Earlier Wednesday, Sauls ordered all the ballots from Palm Beach and Miami-Dade counties brought to Leon County. 
Ballots aren't the only items being sent upstate: A sample voting booth and a voting machine also will be taken to the capital. 
"It is definitely unusual and unprecedented," said Gisela Salas. Miami-Dade's assistant supervisor of elections. "We've never had to go through the processes that we've had to go through this presidential elec­tion." 
Republican observers in Miami complained that chad was falling off' the ballots and that ballot envelopes were marked with the wrong tally. 
"Our No. 1 concern is to make sure the ballots do not become altered in any way," Bush spokesman Jim Wilkinson said. "They hawi already been run through machines several times. Every time they are moved more chad falls off." 
And the tensC'ness thal domi­nated Florida for more than three weeks remained. 
"So why don't we get a bunch of ballots and kick them?" asked GOP observer Marc Lampkin, exasperated by the ballot han­dling. 
"You're being disingenuous," replied Democrat Jack Young. 
"Don't tell me I'm disingenu­ous," Lampkin yelled back. "You just got here. You haven't been watching." 
Miami-Dade elections supervi­sor David Leahy watched the exchange before declaring sim­ply: 'Tm going to lunch." 
Cheney says heart checkup went well 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
One week after his fourth heart attack, Republican vice presidential candidate Dick Cheney had a checkup Wednesday and said doctors found him recovering well. 
Cheney underwent blood tests and an electrocardio­gram that doctors at George Washington University Hospital described as routine. 
The doctors said "every­thing's going very well," Cheney later told reporters. 
But the hospital refused to reveal the actual test results or say when Cheney will have additional exams important in measuring how well his dam­aged heart functions. 
Cheney, 59, had a mild heart attack on Nov. 22. One of his heart arteries was 90 percent blocked, so doctors implanted a wire scaffolding­like device called a stent to push away the blockage and prop open the artery walls. 
He had his first heart attack at age 37, and in 1988 had quadruple bypass surgery to clear clogged arteries. 
While Cheney's fourth heart attack was mild, the accumu­lation of disease has left his heart moderately damaged, his doctors acknowledged last week. Other heart experts note Cheney is at higher risk for further heart attacks than the average 59-year-old,, and needs to take such protective steps as losing weight. 
Cheney later revealed on CNN that his blood pressure Wednesday was an excellent 106 over 80. He takes choles­
. terol-lowering medicine that has kept his total cholesterol level around a good 170, he said. However, he didn't reveal levels of so-called bad cholesterol and triglycerides, more important than total cholesterol counts, and results of Wednesday's cholesterol testing aren't complete. Asked if he feared another heart attack, Cheney said: "I don't operate that way.... I look forward to several more years." Like many stent recipients. Cheney last week was pre­scribed a monthlong course of a potent medicine called Plavix to keep blood from clot­ting around the device. But Plavix can cause bleeding, and in very rare cases can cause a potentially fatal anemia. Patients must be closely watched for such side effects, something doctors presum­ably checked during Cheney's checkup, although they would not say. "We told Mr. Cheney he can resume his usual schedule and stressed the importance of good exercise and nutri­tion," one of his physicians, Dr. Gary Malakoff, said in a statement. 

The Asian American Association presents: 

Saturday, December 2nd $3 for students Washington Hall $5 for non-students 
7:30 pm $5 at the door 
Tickets on sale at the LaFortune Info Desk 
Clothing from the Bop, Gingiss, and Petite Sophisticated 
page 8 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 30, 2000 
''What Do We Want From Story?'' 
Conference and Inaugural Lecture 
Includes: 
Margaret Ann Doody, Christopher Fox, Patrick Jehle, Teresa Phelps, Rev. Edward A. Malloy, Vilsoni Hereniko, Michael Rose, John S. Dunne Melvin Pena, Valerie Sayers, & Marina Warner 
Sponsored by the office of the Provost, the Henkels Lecture Series; the Graduate School; and by the Department of Anthropology; the Department of English; The Department of Film, Television and Theatre; the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures; the Department of Music. 

University of Notre Dame * November 30 -December 2 
Thursday, November 30, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Panel urges lift of Cuban embargo 
Associatecl Press 
WASHINGTON 

The United States should ease the Cuban embargo to help the island's transition to a post­Castro era and reduce chances of U.S. mil­
itary inter­vention, a Council on Foreign Relations panel on Wednesday recom­mended. 


The task Clinton force urged that the United States eliminate travel restrictions to Cuba, allow regular commercial flights between the two nations and permit U.S. companies whose businesses were nation­alized by Cuba to resolve their claims by entering into joint ventures in Cuba. 
It also recommended increased U.S.-Cuban coopera­tion in lighting drugs, helping resolve the Colombian civil war and developing military-to-mili­tary contacts. 
"Our recommendations seek to build ,wd strengthen bridges between the Cuban and American people, promote fam­ily reunification, address cur­rent and future matters of U.S. national security, promote labor rights and facilitate reso­lution of property claims and further expose Cuba to interna­tional norms and practices," the task force said in a report. 
The report made no recom­mendation whether the United States should lift its 38-year-old embargo, which is aimed at pressuring democratic reforms on the communist-ruled island. 
The 23-member task force, which includes liberals and 
conservatives, was co-chaired by Bernard W. Aronson and William D. Rogers, Democrats who held high-level State Department jobs under Republican administrations. 
The group's first report, issued two years ago, recom­mended expanded contacts between Americans and Cubans. A month later, President Clinton adopted many of its recommendations in announcing his "people-to-peo­ple" policy, which relaxed trav­el restrictions. 
Some of the new recommen­dations may be more ditlicult to implement because they require legislation, not just executive orders. 
To lift the travel ban, for example, Congress would have to reverse a 
which could prompt demands for U.S. intervention. 
"We believe the United States should now adopt a series of measures that may reduce the chances of U.S. military involve­ment should Cuba's transition go awry. and by doing so, make Cuba's peaceful transition to democracy more likely," the report said. 
Some of its two dozen recom­mendations were questioned in dissenting opinions by task force members. Susan Kaufman Purcell, vice president of the New York-based Americas Society, said lifting the tourism ban would do little to help Cubans because the Cuban gov­ernment owns all the hotels. 
"Allowing unrestricted travel to Cuba by U.S. citizens under existing condi­
vote it took in tions in Cuba
"Our recommendations
September. As would over­
seek to build and

part of a com­whelmingly promise easing strengthen bridges benefit the restrictions on Cuban govern­
between the Cuban and 
sales of food ment at the
American people ... " 
and medicine expense of the to Cuba, Cuban people," Congress pro­she wrote.
task force report

hibitcd U.S. financing of any sales and converted into law existing travel restrictions to Cuba. 
The new report aims to build on the earlier one, seeking ways to promote peaceful democratic change. 
The report said President Fidel Castro's communism will not survive him, and "many Cubans, including many who hold official positions, under­stand that a transition to a democratic and free-market Cuba is inevitable." 
It said chaos could erupt, however, if Castro should die or become incapacitated. Fighting could break out, and thousands of Cubans could attempt to flee, 
Billiards Tourna·ment 
P e t e r 
Bodman, direc­tor of' national security pro­grams at the Nixon Center, described the report as "more the product of impatience than of analysis," noting a lack of change in Cuba in the last two years. "Any idea that the mea­sures in this report will foster political change are an illu­sion," he wrote. 
The report was also criticized by the anti-Castro Center for a Free Cuba. "I believe that many of the suggestions advanced by the council will help for the most part the Cuban govern­ment, and that means resources for repression," said the center's executive director, Frank Calzon. 
Insurance companies to undergo merger 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Two powerful health insur­ance associations arc merg­ing, forming a giant lobby that will speak with one voice as it fights against a patients' bill of rights and other govern­ment regulations. 
The Health Insurance Association of America, which represents traditional health insurance companies, and the American Association of Health Plans, which repre­sents managed 
care companies, 

"It will probably make
will announce Americans on Thursday them a more cost­that govern­
their intent to effective lobby. They'll ment bureau­merge, said two crats would
be able to spend their
people familiar take over 
with the plans resources better and thBir health 
who spoke on won't have to spend coverage. condition of For its part,
time coordinating."
anonymity. AAHP has 
The merger fought hard represents the Paul Ginsberg for increased changing face of Medicare pay­
president,
health insurance men ts for
Center for Studying Health
in America, HMOs.
System Change
where there was Together, 
would require health plans to include certain treatments in their benefit packages. It would also allow patients to take complaints to indepen­dent panels and -most con­troversially -allow them to file lawsuits if they are denied care. 
HIAA may be best known for fighting First Lady Hii Iary Clinton's 1994 plan for pro­vide health insurance for all Americans. It spent $17 mil­lion on a series of commer­cials featuring Harry and Louise, a fictional middle­aged couple who warned 
once a clear dis­tinction between traditional insurance plans and health maintenance organizations. 
Today, most health insur­ance companies offer both traditional plans, where patients can go to any doctor or hospital, and less costly managed care plans, where they must choose a doctor from a list. Most also offer preferred provider organiza­tions, or PPOs, in which patients may choose from a list of doctors or go elsewhere if they are willing to pay extra. 
"The lines have all blurred, big-time," said Bill Pierce, spokesman for the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association, which will continue to represent health plans that are part of that company. 
The merging organizations have many of the same mem­bers and are typically on the same side of the issues in Washington. Both have vigor­ously fought efforts to impose a patients' bill of rights, which 

the-organiza­tions hope they will carry more clout than either does on its own, but outsiders aren't sure. 
"It will probably make them a more cost-effective lobby," said Paul Ginsburg, president of the Center for Studying Health System Change. "They'll be able to spend their resources better and won't have to spend time coordinat­ing." 
"They've gone from two voices to one," said Judy Waxman of Families USA, a consumer group that is often at odds with the insurance industry. "Obviously it's a big­ger voice, but if you had two strong voices that's sometimes better than one if you're try­ing to get a point across." 
AAHP represents about 1,000 health insurance. plans, while HIAA represents nearly 
300. HIAA also represents companies that offer long­term care and disability insur­ance, whereas AAHP is strict­ly health insurance. 


Friday, December 1, 2000 Tournaments start at 8:30pm in ND Express in the Basement of LaFortune Sign-up from 7:45-8:lSpm by the Info Desk on the 1st Floor 
Three Tournaments and Three Great Prizes I 
9-Ball Tournament for a DVD Player! 8-Ball Tournament for a Stereo! Knock-em In Tournament for a Discman! 
This event is.free and open to all ND students! 
Space is limited, sign-ups on a first-come basis. Rules will be explained at Sign-up. 
Free snacks and drinks provided. Free Pool iftime permits. Sponsored by Student Activities Office-Questions? Contact Banach. l@nd.edu 
September 28 October 5th October26 
El Son De Aquf  Freddy Kenton  Benji  
y Los Ases Del Merengue  y Su Merenbanda  
November2  November30  December 7th  
El Son De Aquf  El Son DeAquf  Fuerza y Alma  

The Club Landing • 1717 Lincolnway East• South Bend, IN. 
page 10 The Obseroer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, November 30, 2000 
ISRAEL 

Plot leads to spying charges for 7 Arabs 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 

Seven Israeli Arabs were charged Wednesday with spying for a Lebanese gucr• rilla group and plotting the abduction of Israeli soldiers or civilians into Lebanon. 
They also conspired to murder Israeli Arabs sus­pected of collaborating with the Israeli authorities and to plant bombs at roadside hitchhiking stations used by soldiers. the Hail'a District Court was told. 
It was the first time Israeli Arabs have been accused of collaborating with Lebanon's Hezbollah. which led an 18­year guerrilla war that led to the withdrawal of the Israeli army l"rom south Lebanon in May. 
The defendants have not submitted pleas, but their lawyer said his clients insist they did not harm the securi­ty of the state. Police say the accused have admitted to the charges. 
In Beirut. Hezbollah denied the allegations in the Israeli indictment. "This accusation is completely devoid of any truth," I-lezbollah said in a press release. 
The defendants, all from the Galilee village of Abu­Snan, were recruited by Hezbollah in the days after the Israeli withdrawal, when Israeli Arabs had emotional reunions on the border with relatives from the Palestinian refugee camps in Lebanon, the indictment said. 
It said the seven were issued Lebanese cellular phones. 
Apart from the spying, none of the plans was car­ried out, but the group was very close lo kidnapping a soldier, Galilee district police chief Lt. Col. Yehuda Salomon told army radio. 

"This was a very danger­ous cell and if it had not been uncovered the conse­quences would have been very grave," he said. 
Four other residents of Abu-Snan were under inves­tigation. the court was told. 
I-lezbollah, an Iranian­backed fundamentalist Muslim group has pledged to continue fighting against Israel as long as it still holds the Chebaa Farms, which is an area in the eastern sector of the border. 
ENGLAND 
Cell therapy proves promising 
Associated Press 
LONDON 

Preliminary research offers hope that transplanting fetal cells into the brains of people with Huntington ·s disease might one day help them walk, talk and reason normally. 
Although drugs can partly alleviate some symptoms of Huntington ·s, such as psy­chosis and involuntary move­ments of the foce and body, there is no treatment. The dis­ease is a progressive genetic disorder of the central nervous caused by degeneration of nerve cells in the brain. 
Hundreds of thousands of people around the world suffer from it. Symptoms usually appear between ages 35 and 40 and the disease is fatal within 10 to 15 years. 
But French researchers have provided the first evidence that when healthy cells from the part of the brain damaged in Huntington's are extracted from a fetus and injected into the brains of people with the illness, the grafts can survive and induce measurable improvements. 
The study, led by Dr. Marc Peschanski of the French Institute of Health and Medical Research, was published Wednesday on the Web site of The Lancet medical journal. 
"Although the findings by Peschanski and colleagues are promising, the clinical useful­ness of cell replacement thera­py for Huntington's disease remains unclear," said Dr. Ollc 
Lindvall, a neuroscience professor at L u n d University in Sweden. 
The findings are very pre­1i min a r y because the transplants were tested on only five patients. T h r e e improved, one showed initial improvement tracking the patients for two years, the scientists injected the cells into first the right side of the brain, then into the left side a year later. 
They all got drugs to sup­press their immune system so 

"Although the .findings by Peschanski and _colleagues are promising, the clinical usefulness ofcell replacement therapy for Huntington's disease remains unclear." 
Dr. Olle Lindvall neuroscience professor, Lund University 
that their bod­ics were less likely to reject the transplants. 
One year after the sec­ond transplant, the patients were given a battery of psy­chiatric and other brain tests and the results wore compared with those of 22 
o t h e r Huntington's 

then declined and the l'ifth continued to deteriorate throughout the study. Peschanski said. 
In addition, the five have only been followed for a year. 
"The ability of the graft to maintain a stable condition over a long time will be essen­tial for its therapeutic value," Lindvall said in a critique pub­lished by The Lancet. 
In the study. the researchers used undeveloped brain tissue from aborted fetuses aged between 7 and 9 weeks. After patients who had not received the transplants. 
Brain scans showed increased activity in three of the five who had had the cell grafts. Other tests indicated speech and articulation improved and that evidence of dementia was less pronounced. 
Meanwhile, all three were able to ride a bicycle, one played indoor games and took children to school. while another was able to mow his lawn and a third to swim and play the guitar. 


Thursday, November 30th Lafortune Ballroom 10pm -lam 
The fast rsrowirlfs jam 
bar1d from Cl1icarso 
r·et urr1s to their Notre 
Dame roots for a rare 
all a~es treat Dori' t 
miss this char1ce to see 
them ir1 ar1 up -c1o s e , 
ir1t imate enviror1ment 

Tix available at the Lafortt1r1e box office www.nd.edu/~sub 
$4 stt1dents ;5 Pt1blic 

Thursday, November 30, 2000 The Obseruer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
WEST BANK 
Officials decide to drop Bethlehem Christmas plans 
Associated Pre:,.s 
BETHLEHEM 

Bethlehem's city fathers have called off ambitious plans for Christmas 2000, saying a time of Palestinian-Israeli conflict is no time for merrymaking. 
The town of Jesus' birth will be dark and deserted this Christmas -without festive street lights, craft !'airs and choirs in Manger Square. 
In the past two months, seven Palestinians from the 
Bethlehem  area  have  been  while there are still closures,  tree, usually brought in from  Eve in Bethlehem, thousands  
killed in rock-throwing clashes  and so many people have been  Norway as the centerpiece of  have crowded Manger Square  
and gun battles with Israeli sol­ killed," said Tony Marcos, a  Manger Square, will be decorat­ for Christmas festivities in the  
diers.  spokesman for the municipality.  ed or left bare. One suggestion  years since ­ until now.  
Fur most of that time, Israeli  "Celebrations for Christmas  has been to hang pictures of  On Wednesday, the empty  
travel restrictions have kept  have been canceled," he said.  more than 200 Palestinians  hallways of the Church of the  
tourists  and  other  non­ Festive street lights still hang­ killed in fighting on the branch­ Nativity, built over the grotto  
Palestinians  out  of biblical  ing from last year's celebra­ es of the Christmas tree.  where tradition says Jesus was  
13ethlchem  and  other  tions, when thousands of visitors  The  travel  born, echoed  
Palestinian towns. These \Vere tightened 10 days ago, to bar all traffic into and out of  crowded Manger Square, will remain unlit. Musical concerts have been called off and the  restrictions have battered Bethlehem's  "In view of the very bad situation we are living  with the chanting of Orthodox  
Palestinian towns.  Christmas craft fair will not go  economy, which  in, it doesn't make  priests.  The  
"In view of the very bad situa­tion we are living in, it doesn't make sense that we celebrate  ahead as planned. There is even debate over whether the giant Christmas  depends heavily on tourists. "Manger Square by this  sense that we celebrate while there are still closures, and so many  grotto itself was occupied by a lone priest, his  


time should head bowed,
people have been
have been filled hands finger­
killed."
with tourists. ing rosary guides and visi­beads. tors. Now it is During nor­
Tony Marcos 
empty," Marcos mal times, vis­
municipal spokesman
said. iting tourists 
0 n would jostle Wednesday, only une shop lin­with each other for a glimpse of ing Manger Square was open. the sacred site. On Wednesday, The other shopkeepers were only processions of nuns and observing a strike call by the monks filtered into the room for Palestinian leadership prayers. Wednesday marked the Dorothus, an Orthodox priest anniversary of the 1947 U.N. at the church, said the religious partition vote that led to Israel's ceremonies will continue as creation. planned. "The situation is not 
Joseph Jakaman stood in the good, but we are praying for doorway of his souvenir shop, peace. In every liturgy we pray which sells religious icons made for peace," he said. from olive wood and mother of Hotels have been empty since pearl. the beginning of October, said 
I 
"It's very bad, the people here George Halal, an employee at are unhappy. The shops open the Paradise Hotel. "Normally for a few hours every day, some the hotel is full (in December), don't even open anymore," he but we've had cancellations said, leaning against the from everyone, coming from counter, a mother of pearl stat­places like Greece, Italy, France ue twinkling in the light behind and Germany," he said. him. Some tour operators are can­
Jakaman said he and his fel­celing plans for tours as far 
low Bethlehem merchants had ahead as Easter, said Jumana initially anticipated record sales Abbas, a spokeswoman for this Christmas season, with Bethlehem 2000, a special body large numbers of tourists and set up by the Palestinian pilgrims expected for the 2000th Authority as part of its millenni­birthday of Christianity. um celebrations. 
"People were preparing for "We are living day by day, so Christmas from the beginning of we are keeping announcements this year. We thought we would (of events) to the last minute see the most tourists ever," until we are sure they are going Jakaman said, adding that it to happen," she said. had been over a month and a For December and January, half since a tourist had bought Bethlehem 2000 had planned something from his shop. 13 evening concerts in Manger 
While the 1987-1993 Square to mark the pre­Palestinian uprising saw just a Christmas season and the few hundred pilgrims brave Muslim fasting month of heavy security and safety con­Ramadan which began earlier 

cerns to celebrate Christmas 

Extraordinist Craig Karges presents a fantastic display of illusion, the paranormal and extraor­dinary phenomena using total audiencE partici­pation! It's like The TUJilight Zone, _live on stage! 
As seen on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno, Larry King Live, CNN Headline News, Lifetime Television, CNBC, The Nashville Network, United Paramount Network and E! Entertainment Television. 
C R A G 
I< A R G E s 
Thursday, November 30 
7:00 pm Carroll Auditorium Sponsored by: Student Activities Board -S.M.C. 
this week. 
EuropeSilel 
~ Purchase Between December 5 -9 
8 Major European Destinations 
London Paris Frankfurt Madrid Rome Amsterdam BruS&els Barcelona 
New York to London Round Trip -$193. Other departure cities: Boston Chicago Washington DC san Francisco Los Angles Atlanta Dallas / Fort Worth 
ec=-. 
student UDIV8rse~ 
A...., EJIIIICI _ ,_,Sludlllt Uni­
800.272.9676 
studentuniverse.com 


IEWPOINT 
O
THE page 12 BSERVER Thursday, November 30, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
l'.O Box Q, Notre Dame, lN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIF.F Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
A:»,. MANAGING EDITOR OrERATI0NS MANAGER Christine Kraly Brian Kessler 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Matringly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smirh SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARYS EDITOR: Molly McVoy Pttoro EDITOR: Eliubeth Lang 
AoVER'l1SING MANAGER: Pat Peters AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGERIGENUAL INF0 .............. 631-7471 FAX ........................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIA.ssT. ME....................631-454 l BUSINESS OFFICE...................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. !@nd.edu 
SrORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.spom. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://aburver.nded11 for daily updates ofcampus news. sports, features and opinion columns, as wdl as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the minute forecasts 

advertise for policies and rates of print ads 
archives to search for articles published after August 1999 movies/music for weekly student reviews 
online features for spe­cial campus coverage 
about The Observer 
to meet the editors and staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of rhe administration ofeither mstirution. The Observer reserves the right co refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as Possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, leners and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoim space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters IO the Editor must be signed a11d must include contact information. 
Q_,.m/o,u rcgardiug Observer poucies ,hould be dirm­
rdtu Fditor in Chief Mik, Connolly. 
DILBERT 
THE COMPANY WILL 
BE HOLDING MAN­DATOR'Y CPR TRAINING FOR 


E 
0 
u 
'6 
®.. " 
E 
..," 
.. 
is 

Racism in the United States 
This January, Kathleen Maas Weigert, who has been a fixture and inspiration at Notre Dame for many years through the Center for Social Concern and other avenues, leaves to become the Director for the Center for Social Justice Research, Teaching and Service at Georgetown University. 
It would be impos­sible for Notre Dame and its individual community mem­bers to repay the debt owed to pro­fessor Weigert, but it is important to try. 
The details of professor Weigert's 
contributions to 

programs from peace studies to Catholic social tradition arc available elsewhere, so instead of rehearsing the litany of her achievements she and I thought it would be more fitting if she simply suggested a topic on which I would write my last col­umn before her departure. She gave me some options, but this statement of hers stands out: "I still find the issue ofracism one of the most difficult to discuss, let alone to act on for us as a nation and as a church." Given professor Weigert's efforts on the full range of issues while at Notre Dame, a brief attempt on my part here to say something on this topic is the least I can do. 
Before any prescriptions for racism can be put forward, it is necessary to try to describe it accurately and to do that involves in large part the effort to take on the perspectives of minorities. In other words, it seems to me that any attempt of a white person to write on racism involves an act of impossible empathy. It is an act that requires both a certain kind of presumption and humili­ty. The first reason why racism is so hard to address is that it is tremendously difficult to hold together presumption and humility well in a sustained way. 
I say this as a person who does not think that empathy per se is necessarily difficult, but who does think that the his­torical and contemporary differences in the experiences of African-Americans and whites in the United States (and this is the form of race relations that I will focus on here) are sufficiently vast that bridging the gap in any way requires sustained effort. 
I have a copy of James Allen's "Without Sanctuary: Lynching Photography in America," to remind me of those experiential differences. The popular myth is that lynchings were activities carried out at night by hooded men too ashamed, really, to reveal who they were when committing such atro­cious acts. However, the majority of lynchings wore public events, often \Vith children in attendance. Those lynched were frequently tortured and burned beforehand. Photographers showed up and printed out postcards so that those attending could write to tell relatives. 

Todd David Whitmore 
The Common Good 
--==----------~ 

"Without Sanctuary" is a collection of these postcards. Being postcards, the pictures (sometimes with the sender cir-clod and smiling) and the notes on them were open for all who came across them to see. No shame. No shame at all. 
l look at this book as a starting point. I understand that lynchings are not as fre­quent today. But the legacy is still there. Part of that legacy is in the continued provocation of fear. Once a pattern has been established, it does not take many instances of a man being dragged to death behind a truck to remind a group of persons that they are vulnerable. 
Our Thanksgiving day was laced with irony because we spotted a pick-up with a confederate flag decal and about two feet of twine hanging from its rear bumper tied into a noose. The message was clear. 
The legacy also contin­ues in instituted prac­tices, such as racial pro-t-:t'l..~IC!.;;;>oi;:::i filing by police forces. /W,~-,.;;.:,.~ In Florida, for "'...,....~~:.-,,.,,; instance, 80 percent f'"!l,-c;;-~:1:""""'1":.•~·.... of those persons ~....,..~,1stopped and searched are black /6.,'Nl:'::;"' or Hispanic, even though they consti­tute only 5 percent of all drivers. 
There are instances closer to home. In 1991, I began seeing a perhaps most fitting is that of the Babylonian exile of the Jews in 587-539 
B.C. Defeated by Nebuchadnezzar. many of Judah's people, particularly the lead-ors, were taken to Babylon. They were not enslaved, but neither were they liv­ing in a place they could call home. 
In summoning this image. I do not suh­scribe to a pure -and therefore roman­ticized -form of victimization theory where all whites are bad and all blacks are good. A few weeks ago, T. and I ran into a friend of mine. 
After some conversation, she asked him why, given the context within which he grew up, he never got involved with drugs or gangs. I turned to him and said, 
"Yeah, T., what happened?" Ih~ replied with characteristic brevity. "You." I do not feel guilty so much as part 
of an ignorance that is hard to identify with clarity, let alone overcome. I also know that there have been other instances of patterned injustice ­the rape or Nanking. for ,:·----example. It is important, 
,,...--..~~ however, not to think that something is less horrible just because it 
is frequent. On the con­trary, frequency is one indication that the activity is normalized -such that, for 
instance, it can be cel­ebrated on postcards. I take the vast 

young African-•--··--11 reduction in the num-American boy as her (some would say part of the Big disappearance) of Brothers program. lynchings and the One year, when a response to the drag-police officer had ging of James Byrd. Jr. been shot and killed, to be an indication that officers surrounded such actions are no T.'s house. There was longer considered nor-someone living there mal by most Americans. who, because he had a But the task of impossible name similar to the empathy is far from over. suspect's, was thought Subtle forms of racism are to be the suspect. T.'s _~/,\....__ all the more difficult to younger brother, then 10 // "'~J identify.
years old, was by the win-<-~:._ At Notre Dame, for instance, dow. The police told him to , .,,,..Y do we (whites) assume if we see stick his hands out. '\ .,/ _ , an African-American that he or In fear, the boy ran. T., in fear ~ she is an athlete? That he or she is
--...._ that the officers would start shoot-· ing, ran to the window and stuck his own hands out. There they stayed while his grandmother and aunt tried to tell the disbelieving police that they had the wrong person. 
T. has never committed a crime (He broke up with one girlfriend because she smoked). I understand the need for police vigilance. I am also trying to understand what it must be like to be 15 and have several guns pointed at you by representatives of the state because you might be the person whose name sounds like that of the suspect. 
In my column, I have tried to reflect on issues in light of Catholic teaching. In this case, where I am attempting to get a sense of what it must be like to be black today, the image that comes to mind as 
not a student here and does not belong on campus (our own form of pro­filing?) Do we identify (largely white) Notre Dame as "safe" over against the (largely black) neighborhoods where some off-campus students live as "dan­gerous" in a way that reinforces stereo­types? Do African-Americans at Notre Dame feel at home or in exile? Why? These are diflicult questions. But it is important to ask them and then listen. 
The views expressed in this column an those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Todd David Whitmore is an assistant professor in the theology department. His column appears every other Thursday. 
SCOTT ADAMS 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
I AM SURROUNDED B'Y PEAR-SHAPED, UH-OH ... BEEF-EATING, I HOPE THAT'S MIDDLE-AGED MEN JU5T 5TRE.55. WHO I PREFER NOT TO TOUCH. 
\., 

"/ realize that I'm black. but I like to be viewed as a person. and that ·s everybody's wish. " 
Michael Jordan athlete 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
Thursday, November 30, 2000 BSERVER page 13 

Will the real President-Elect 
please stand up? 
Can you believe this mess? It's a week after Thanksgiving and well, we kind of have a new president but not really because Gore is suing everyone he sees including Mrs. Betty Friedheim of Saginaw, Mich. and her poodle, Tiger. We're almost into December and we're more sure of what bowl the Fighting Irish are going to than which bozo I get to laugh at for the next four years. for those or you who have been living in Caho Amy Schill for the past month, I'll briefly summarize all the hoopla thus far. 
It all started when all the networks got Dazed and together and decided to ruin the election. First, 
Amused 

thuy called Florida for Gore. giving Mr. Hoboto a sizeable lead and apparently causing all West Coast voters to stay home and play Yahtzee. Then, they all took Florida away from Gore. changing the whole dynamic of the elec­tion and causing Tim Hussert to break his dry-erase board over his knees and weep openly. Dan Rather. as we all know, went com­pletely insane. When all the pundits had exhausted the electoral col­lege debate, Larry King had married and divorced six times and the malt liquor had run out, the networks thought. "Hey, let's give the election to Bush and see what happens!" 
We all had to watch Republicans mosh, that's what happened. 
After witnessing a few minutes of the moshing and the ensuing GOP rave, complete with glow sticks and education vouchers, I went to bed, like many of us, thinking Bush had won. When l woke up, I discovered that in the course of the night, the networks had given the election to Gore. Bush again, Gore again and finally, to Carson Daly. after which declaring the race too close to call and the #1 video of the week "Country Grammar" by Nelly. In a sad develop­ment, Dan Rather announced that the next president of the United States was a tamale. 
So here we are, three weeks later. After all the recounts, hand recounts and three games of rock, paper, scissors (paper covers rock, Al), it appears that Bush has won, but with all these court bat­tles, no one really seems satisfied with Decision 2000. In the midst of all of this, Cheney leads Lieberman in heart attacks by a margin or 16 to 0. (I'm sorry, after several hand recounts, Cheney's lead is down to 1). 
The longer this process has gone on, the messier it has become, causing the true results to be, probably forever, a mystery. Ballots were thrown out. Floridian retirees are running loose in the streets, someone named Chad caused a load of trouble and in an ironic twist of fate. Bush hid several hundred Gore-Lieberman votes in Al Gore's own lockbox. rlorida, previously known only as a producer of evil college football teams, now shares the title of least competent election handling with Oregon, which has yet to realize that there actually was an election. Meanwhile. you just know that Bob Dole is planning some sort of military coup to take over the White House and rename our nation, "Dole Land." 
If I've learned anything from this election (besides the chad thing), I've learned that in an election this close, no matter who ends up president half the country is going to be upset and not too convinced of the results. We need a way to decide the presidency absolutely. Both sides have already proposed biased solutions, with the Democrats suggesting a spelling bee and the Republicans suggest­ing a freestyle dance competition. Rejecting both of these options, I (and the networks. of course). have decided that the best way to decide the election and to make a whole lot of monev, is to have Bush and Gore go at it on a three-hour live television special called Survivor II: Palm Beach County. We would strand the candidates in a deserted retirement community, with only a few cans of food, some water and a shuttlecock. After a series of physical challenges, mind games and tribal dances. I predict that Jeff Probst will declare once and for all that the next president of our next great nation will be ... Rudy, the crotchety ex-Navy Seal. 
Okay, maybe it won't really turn out that way, but it would sure be fun to watch (as long as neither of them got naked.) I guess instead we'll have to watch Gore take everyone and his dependent mother to court, while Bush learns to pronounce "inauguration." 
Let freedom ring. 
Amy Schill is a sophomore English major. Her column appears every other Thursday. The views expressed in this column are those afthe author and not necessarily tho.,;e ofThe Obsemer. 
As a philosopher I operate with a simpler set of intellectual resources than Law Professor Charles Rice brings to bear upon the moral teachings of the Catholic Church. 
I hope I am not unqualified to enter the local conversation about the catechetical teaching that "homosexual acts are intrinsi­cally disordered." This is a curious teaching. relying as it docs on an antique, essentialist metaphysical biology with no supporting empirical evidence in contemporary biology. Its psychological foundations are even shaki­er. Neither homosexuality nor the perfor­mance of homosexual acts is a mental illness. Official church teaching no longer assigns pri­ority to the procreative functions of marital sexuality. 
Homosexual lovers may aspire to and prac­tice chastity with the same ever fragile suc­cess but continuing fidelity as their heterosex­ual counterparts. 
Professor Rice assumes that all homosexu­als are called to celibacy and sexual absti­nence. He presents no relevant evidence in support of that assumption even though he surely is not unaware of the distinction of chastity and celibacy. 
[tis good trial advocacy to make claims in one's opening remarks that put one's adver­sary at a serious disadvantage, and Professor Rice is an expert advocate. but conversations among equals at a University require a differ­ent protocol. Arguments which seem to have little real purpose but the stigmatization of homosexual proclivities do no credit to a Catholic university. 
Edward Manier 
philosophy professor 
November 28, 2000 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Refuting Rice's Column 
~~~~~~=--_J 
Keeping the pants 
•

on pnests 
I am writing in response to Maureen Smithe's article on the ordination of women in order to give a more clear account of the Church's teaching on this subject. 
In John Paul II's encyclical "Ordinatio Sacerdotalis" (On reserving priestly ordination to men alone) he states, "In order that all doubt may be removed regarding a matter of great importance, a matter which pertains to the Church's divine constitution itself, in virtue or my ministry of con­firming the brethren I declare that the Church has no authority whatsoever to confer priestly ordi­nation on women and that this judgment is to be definitively held by all the Church's faithful." The Church is guided by the Holy Spirit and is founded by Christ on Peter, the first pope. As a result, we can and should follow this teaching with confidence. 
Why does the Church teach this? First of all, Jesus chose only men as apostles and "Christ, in instituting the Eucharist, linked it in an explicit way to the priestly service of the Apostles." (Mulieris Dignitatem, No. 26) Also, "Christ's way of acting did not proceed from sociological or cul­tural motives of his time" and "he did not act out of human respect" (Ordinatio Sacerdotalis, No. 2, Matthew 26:16). The Catechism states: "The Church recognizes herself to be bound by this choice made by the Lord Himself. For this reason, the ordination of women is not possible.'' (No. 1577) This is not a tradition like the Latin Mass but a firm teaching of the Church and the will of Christ. In addition, the priest is an "alter Christus" who "enacts the image of Christ in whole person." 
. (Thomas Aquinas, Summa Theologiae, III. 83, 1. 3) This includes the manhood of Christ. This teaching does not portray a negative attitude towards women. If this were true, we must conclude that Jesus had a similar attitude since he called only men as apostles. This, of course, is far from the truth as the Samaritan woman at the well, Mary Magdalene, Jesus' mother and the many women who accompanied Jesus through his life show. Women have distinct roles in the Church which "remain absolutely necessary and irreplaceable," including religious life and moth­erhood (Ordinatio Sacerdotalis, No. 3). These two vocations have been under attack in our times. Who will defend these? Motherhood, in fact, which is of extreme importance to the salvation of souls, is a unique role not shared with men. The Pope himself respects women greatly, just read his long encyclical "The Dignity and Vocation ofWomen" and you will know what I mean. 
Carolyn T orson Lewis Hall Sophomore November 29, 2000 


MOVIE REVIEW 
Carrey's 'Grinch' is fun holiday fare 

13y GUNDER KEHOE Scene Movie Criric 
The (;ri11ch may !Jave stolen Christmas. but llollvvvood kid­napped Dr. Stiuss. · 
For tho lust st•wrnl ynars. µro­durnrs triPd Lo wrestlP "Crinch" rigilts fru111 tlw author's widow, and director Hun I lo,vard linally succeeded. I J,,.s 
WPight off his heart. 
Ile wreaks havoc on \Vhoville because he wants to ruin their festive spirit with his own holiday cynicism. While everyone in Whovillc fears the Grinch, Cindy Lou Who is the one little girl in town dealing with Seussian puberty: What are the holidays really about'? Cindy Lou bravely searches fur the warmth 

madn a 
''Dr. Seuss' How inside the cold­
r<'SflPCtable hearted Grinch holidav kids the Grinch Stole and finds that 
movi,·." but it Christmas is brtiatlws more about the peo­
Christmas" 
w i t h ple and not the l!D!lywood's 
presents. stamp than Hick Baker 
with somP011P may be lhc who was dndi­out olfive shwnrocks only make-up catl'd Lo Si•uss' designer who warknd-oul earns a scvcn­
Director: Ron Howard
universP. l'igu rc salary, i'Jot that this Starring: Jim Carrey and and his Grinch 
should conw as Taylor Momsen 
any surprisP, but fans of tlw slorv 1110st likdy wislwd for a lit­t!P i<•ss llolly,\ood and a little moni SPussian stvh1. In the end, Llw nirnmahrs hav1· probably done this classil: the only way possibh·. and Jim Carrey's prc.s­Pllf<' makes tlw wholti film dick. 
Tlw sc:r<'Pll\\TitPrs have invent­Pd tlH~ Grinch's background, making him a childhood runt who 1rns shumwd bv ,di his school­matPs. Thus, c;rinch has retreat­ed rrom \Vhovillr. to his mountain cavt•rn (which resembles Batman's. only nut as slick). \\'hilt• most 1woplc sp1\11d tinw losing \Wight off their hips, the c;rinrh dnvolcs bis tinw losing 
design proves 
he's well worth 
the price. Even though Jim Carrny is smothered under make-up, his en<~rgy doesn't miss a beat. The green latex lits Carrey like a glove and Lhc actor has more lef~way under a thick coating than most actors have with their regular skin. 
As thl~ Grinch, Carrey stam­mers around with a potbelly and long lingers that fray out like worn Q-tips. Watching Grinch slither his hands is like watching !\fr. Burns on acid. Even those viewers who don't normally like Jim C:arrev's antics will sec there's no other wav to act when living in Grinch's ski~1. 
lloward's strength is solid slo­ryielling, but lw's never had that distinct visual llair. The whimsi­caI world of Whovillc is envi­sioned like Candyland where everything looks round and edi­ble. It stays true to the wacky world or Dr. Seuss but somehow Howard's imagination fer-ls forced. The director just lacks a genuinely bizarre perspective. 

!t would've bPen nice to sec Tirn Burton ("BeetJ~juire") tackle "The Grinch." but he might haVl~ scared up a few too many nigbt­marcs. Besides. Howard's style is more anonymous and he right­eously gives credit to the author. Thr:rc wouldn't br: much justice in seeing "The Grinch" under Burton's direction because an auteur would have taken credit. 
Luckily, llrnre are enough freaky images in "The Grinch" to make some kids wary of falling asleep. IIoward realizes that 'The Grinch" can't be all fun and games; he's got to bave some real fright to complete his edge. 
Some of Carrey's stunts aren't for anyone over the age of 10, but the pint-size characters keep his madness in check. 
Taylor Momsen plays Cindy Lou with a nice wide-eyed curiosity. She always laughs when Grinch wants her to cry. 
Max is the Grinch's loyal dog and might be the one pct who smells better than his master. The tiny pet is in perfect balance with the energetic Carrey and he handles the pressures of this crazy world with amazing calm. When Grinch gets too hypPd up, a simple shot of Max puts everyone at case. 
"How the Grinch Stole 
Christmas" is aimed at kids. but the story has enough strength to leave some of the older viewers a little teary-eyed. Who knows if the movie will ever hit TV and be squeezed between "It's a Wonderful Life" and "A Christmas Story." But movies come and g > so rapidly thiit it's tlrn brinf two hours that count. 
"The Grinrh" will nevnr outlast its literar\' inspiration but, rngardless, ,uy sonw snowcaps and enjoy tlw holiday ridP. 

MOVIE REVIEW 
'Bounce' showcases its stars' romantic chenistry 
or have they broken up? weather and relaxes in a bar with other in this role, proving Lhat he can actually
By CASEY K. McCLUSKEY 
l3ecause of all the rumors, "Bounce" has passengers. Buddy meets Greg Janello act, something he is not always able to do 
.S~t:m.: !\[uvic Cri,i1.. 
been a highly anticipated film. Although (Tony Goldwyn, "Ghost") and learns all (he has not been this impassioned since Afl1eck and Paltrow deny they are in a about his wife and two boys. "Dogma.") As Buddy, he is raw and full of An• they or aren·1 they? That is the ques­relationship, there is still a lot of chemistry When Buddy learns that he is on the last emotion. The film depends on his charac­tion that has long surrounded director Don between the two. fligh t out and Greg's flight has been ter's vulnerability and guilt, and Af'fleck 
Hoos' newest film, "Bounce," because orits Afileck plays Buddy Amaral, an advertis­bumped, Buddy gives Greg portrays this well. 
two leading actors. Everyone wants to ing executive who loves to close big deals. his plane ticket so he can Paltrow also shines. Her 
know the real deal between Gwyneth On one business trip, Buddy gets delayed get home to his kids. That "Bounce" part may be even more dif-
Paltrow and Ben Afficck. Are they together at the Chicago O'Hare Airport because of last llight is ill fated, howev-ficult than !\flleck's because er, and crashes. killing all of ·--she has to play a double the passengers aboard. ';J!J}f:t role. Abby, at the beginning Buddy is filled wilh so much of the film. is a very dcpr:n­guilt for not being on that outoffiueshamrocks dent woman who learns flight that he stoµs going to that her husband has died. work. giving him more time Director: Don Roos But she also becomes a 
to drink. Starring: Ben Affleck, woman who is ready to Buddy hits rock bottom move on with her life. 
and decides he has to get Gwyneth Paltrow, Tony These are two extremely back on track. To accom-Goldwyn and Johnny Galecki diffcrnnt characters, but plish this he needs to make Paltrow makes both of 
peace with himself about them very believable. the crash. He decides to go check up on Another impressive actor in the lilm is Greg's wife and kids to make sure they are Johnny Galecki (David from "Bos11anne"). okay. He plays Buddy's assistant and is also a 
When Buddy meets Greg's widowed recovering alcoholic. Although Buddy is his wifo, Abby (Pallrow), the audience is able boss, Galccki's charact<~r is not afraid of' to sec the chemistry between these two him. He is a great foil to Buddy and forces immediately, although the characters do him to deal with things instead of' rnfusing not feel it right away. It is because or this lo race them. chemistry that "Bounce" is so good. There "Bounce" is successful becaus11 it does is real depth in the acting because of how not get overly sentimental. It is vnry ma! comfortable these two are with each other. and very believable. And although things They challenge each other to be real and seem a bit rushed (distributor Miramax are immensely successful. forced Hoos to shorten the film by about 25 
Aflleck is very impressive and convincing minutes). it still works very well. 
Hollywood pseudo-couple Gwyneth Paltrow and Ben Affleck star in "Bounce." 


Thursday, Nov-:mber 30, 2000 page 15 
-
MOVIE REVIEW 
'The 6th Day:' another cloned action flick 
By ADAM WELTLER 
Scene i\1ovic Criric 
Arnold Schwarzenegger's newest film, "The 6th Day." is nul his best tu date, but it's not his wurst either. Let's face it. w,,'rc arguably looking at the world's greatest action star, whose career has ranged from classic high mark action movins such as 'Terminator 1 and 2" (soon to be 3), 

Photo courtesy ot Coiumb1a Pictures 
Arnold Schwarzenegger stars in "The 6th Day." 
to the depths of crap-dom in "Last Action Hero" and Sure, we're stuck with the dilemma of' how cloning could "Jingle All the Way." provide us with medical benefits, but look, Arnold just shot 
But Ah-nold's getting older and he's tackling more intel­someone and said something clever, what was I thinking ligent subject matfor (about as intelligent as you can get about again? Never mind. from a Schwarzenegger flick), and his audience is either The movie awes us with explosions, special effects and paying the price or reaping the bene­lots of bright, shiny things while, at the fits, depending on how you look at it. same time, trying to inject feelings and
"The 6th Day"

In "The 6th Day," Arnold tackles the social issues that never quite hit home. tricky subject of human cloning. In the One could assume Arnold is reaching not-so-distant future, Adam Gibson the time or his life when he's thinking (Schwarzenrgger), a commercial pilot, his films should be more socially is mistakenly cloned and then hunted out offive shamrocks responsible, and it's kind ofsad. down by a group or hit men sent by a Other than the floundering plot, the ruthless business tycoon bent on eras­movie has some unorthodox cine­
Director: Roger Spottiswoode

ing his mistake. The process of human matography. The camera work is dis­cloning is illegal in this future society Starring: Arnold Schwarzenegger tracting. Like most current action 
and existing as a clone is a capital crimr. So both sides must race to correct the situation before society discovers it. 
To say the least, the issue of human cloning is slightly thought provoking. The movie raises importnnt questions: Do clones have souls? Are they dangerous? Should we be tampering with God's work? Even the title of the movie refers to the Bible and how, on the sixth day, God created man. In this futuristic society. they have already made it legal to clone pets. A company (humorously named Re­Pet) specializes in providing that service. The question is: Where do we draw the line in cloning? 
The problem here is that the audience doesn't ,rnnt to have to think when it sees an action movie such as this. But they don't have to think much. 
The story line spells out almost all answers you would need: Cloning is bad and the natural process oflife is good. 
movies, "The 6th Day" tries to give itself a "Matrix"-likc look, and whereas ''The Matrix" treaded the fine line between flashy and visually incom­prehensible, "The 6th Day" fallti toward the latter. The special rffects of' 'The 6th Day" are impressivr. however. and director Roger Spottiswoode ("Tomorrow Never Dies") handles them well. 
The movie itself is not unlike Arnold's previous Pndcav­ors. He stumbles into trouble in a futuristic society and the bad guys hunt him down as he races to uncover the truth of what is happening to him (like in "Total Hecall"). This movie doesn't quite reach that level unfortunately. and while the special effects are better and Arnold's acting ability has improved (now if he could just drop tlw accent). "The 6th Day" lacks compassion for tlw characters and their struggles. To il'i credit, it's an entertaining two hours. But wait for the video. 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Stylish and intriguing, 'Unbreakable' ends with a bang 
the prime thrust of the movie.
By BILL FUSZ 
What Shyamalan accomplishes in 
Scene ~!ovie Criric 
the next hour and a half becomes the most fascinating and rivetingThis is a movie you have to sec. 
conception of realistic heroism Twice. 
presented on screen in a very"Unbreakable," M. l\;ight 
long time. Shyamalan's follow-up to his 
In a subtle way, Shyamalanblockbluster, Oscar-nominated 
examines what it means to be a thriller. "The Sb:th Sense," is sim­
hero in the modern world, play­ply the best suspense movie you 
ing with the conventions of comic will see all year; and at least until 
books and comic book movies "Crouching 
along the Tiger, Hidden 
w a y

Dragon," "Unbreakable" "Superhero comes out, 

realism" mayprobably the 
be the onlysingle best 
"It;) 
way to 

film of the 
describe it:

out offive shamrocks 
year. Don't 
the calculat­let anvone ing look at 
tell you· oth-Director: M. Night Shyamalan 
what types of erwise. Starring: Bruce Willis, Samuel limitations a 
As the pre­
real super­

L. Jackson, Robin Wright-Penn
views so aptly 
hero mightshow. Bruce and Spencer Treat Clark have in the 
Willis plays David Dunn, a stadium security guard in Philadrlphia who is in a train accident that kills everyone aboard except himself. Not only is he alive, but he is remarkably unscratched. Upon hearing of the accident. a mysterious stranger and comic book art dealer, Elijah Prier (Samuel L. Jackson. "Shaft") contacts Dunn, seeking tu understand how it is that thLs miracle or survival occurred. Price is especially interested since he is afflicted with a malady directly counter to the fortunes of Dunn: his bones have alwavs bro­ken especially easily. · 
The remainder of the movie focuses on their mutual search to understand what it is that made Dunn so fortunate. To give away more would betray the manner in which the trailer has concealed world today. 
The direction and camera work, which help add such depth to the film, truly establish Shyamalan as a top-rank direc­tor. Using a style that can be described as "Hitchcock-esque." he pulls the audience into the movie and instills genuine sus­pense. 
An early scene shows a mar­ried Dunn flirting guiltily with a fellow passenger on Lhe doomed train. Shot from brtwcen two seats immediately in front of them, the scene implicates the vie'.ver in Dunn's guilt, as one feels like they are eavesdropping on a conversation they are not meant to hear. 
Another subsequent scene has a doctor telling a just revived Dunn of the fate of the train. In the forrground, the audience sees a pool of blood slowly spread across the gauze covering the last dying passenger. 
In contrast with the dark, real­istic tone of the camera-work is a score set in the melodramatic style ofcomic book action movies. With techno-beat pieces lifted from 'The Matrix" and victorious John Williams-style movements borrowed from "Superman," the score challenges the audience to reconcile the music with the dis­turbing hyper-realism of the movie's crimes. 
Villainy in this film has no grandeur; instead of a Lex Luthor trying to take over the world, we are shown frat boys committing date rape and throwing bottles at pedestrians' heads. all shot through what looks like an omnipresent, omniscient security camera. Jarring and slightly out of sync with the film's material, the score serrns to create a last­ing uneasiness in keeping with the tone of"Unbreakable." 
As one might expect from vet­erans like Willis and Jackson, their performances are excellent. Willis especially impresses in showing once again that he can leave his smirking action heroes behind for the understated dra­matic roles. Also excellent are Robin Wright-Penn ("Message in a Bottle") and Spencer Treat Clark ("Gladiator") as Dunn's wife and son. Both provide solid, emotionally complex roles that only deepen the film's impact. 
But the film's ending is what has gotten the most attention. All one can say is that it inspires dread and horror in the viewer unlike any tllm in a long time. If that were all it did however. "Unbreakable" would simply be a good movie, What makes the film great is the way in which the ending rewrites the entire story for the audience. The focus and meaning of the film cannot help but be different when confronted with the ending, and the only true way to establish this is to see it again. Finding out just how much is different in the new light creat­ed by the finale is what makes "Unbreakable" a truly outstand­ing movie. The film is one of the few cinematic: achievemenlc; in a relatively lackluster movie year. 

Photo courtesy of Touchstone Pictures In M. Night Shyamalan's "Unbreakable," Bruce Willis plays an ordinary man with extraordinary powers. 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 30, 2000 
NBA 
Wesley drops in 32, Hornets beat Carter-less Raptors 
Williams had 12 and Corliss 21-foot jumper to give the different yet something very again. of course it'll go back to 
Associated P rc.s 
Williamson and Jackson added Sixers a 52-43 halftime lead. familiar as the Knicks and being the way it was." 
-
11 each. Heat renewed their rivalry. Grant took a pass from The faces had changed but Mason in the low post and con­
Jazz 88, Magic 86 
the intensity was the same as verted a three-point play with
Karl Malone had 27 points
David Wesley scored 32 76ers 93, Wizards 87 
Heat got big games from big 3:42 left to stop a 10-0 Knicks
and 11 rebounds as the Utah
points to lead the Charlotte Allen Iverson scored 29 
men Brian Grant and Anthony run and give Miami a 77-72
Jazz held off the Orlando
Hornets to their sixth straight points and Theo Ratliff and 
Mason to defeat the Knicks. lead.
Magic to win their fifth straight
victory, 103-79 over the Eric Snow added 18 each as 
Exploiting their size advan­Jones made two from the linegame.
Toronro Raptors on the Philadelphia 76ers beat the tage at every opportunity, the with 2:53 left. and Grant
Orlando's John Amaechi hit a
Wednesday night. Washington Wizards. 
Heat got 24 points and nine rejected a shot by Larry
pair of free throws with 32.5
The Haptors were without The Sixcrs. who had lost two 
rebounds from Grant and 19 Johnson on the Knicks' next
seconds remaining to cut
star Vince Carter for the sec­of three after a franchise-best points and 18 rebounds from possession. Grant then went lo
Utah's lead to 88-86.
ond straight game, both losses. 10-0 start, improved to 12-2. 
Mason in a game they con­the line with 2:26 left and
The Magic then rebounded a
Carter. the NHA's second­Mitch Richmond led 
trolled most ol' Lhe way. made both to give Lhe I [eat an
missed layup by Utah's Bryon
leading scorer at 27 .5 points Washington with 26 points. 
Grant missed a pair of free eight-point lead. 79-73.
Russell but Tracy McGrady
per game, remained in Canada Juwan Howard had 14 and 
throws that would have Mason made two frne throws
was swarmed as he tried to get
to receive treatment on his Jahidi White added 10 points clinched it with 9.6 seconds with 15.2 lel't for a six-point
a final shot off, prompting
str a i11 e d Ieft q uad riceps . and 13 rebounds. 
left, but Chris Childs came up lead before Childs -who had
Magic coach Doc Rivers to run
Without him, the Haptors Ratliff tied a career-high short on a 3-pointer with 2 shot an airball from 3-point
onto the court and argue that
never had a chance. with nine blocks and Tyrone seconds left to end New York's range with 18 seconds left and
McGrady was fouled as time
The Hornets dominated from Hill had 11 points and 10 only chance of the final the Knicks trailing by four ­expired.
the start and made Alvin rebounds for the Sixers. 
minute. made it 84-81 on a 3-pointer
McGrady, playing with a
Williams, Carter's replace­Washington took its first lead "It was cool. Both teams with 10.8 seconds left.
heavily bandaged left hand
ment. look foolish on numer­since the opening minutes, 87 ­
were really playing to win," Bruce Bowen rebounded
that is infected, had 28 points,
ous plays. 86, as Rod Strickland hit a pair Grant said. "It wasn't as Childs' final miss and dribbled
seven rebounds, f'our assists
Leading :-35-26 in the second of free throws to complete a vicious as what I usually see out the clock.
and eight turnovers.
quarter, Baron Davis froze 17-5 run with 2.42 left. A 3­
on TV. but I can see where it's "On our team's part. we
Amaechi scored 17 points
Williams under the basket pointer by Hichmond had cut it going to get like that later." needed a 'W.' Didn't matter ii'
and Darrell Armstrong had l 1 . 
when he took a sharp pass to 86-85. 
The Heat snapped a four­we were playing the Little
Reserve Danny Manning
from Wesley and converted il But Iverson made it 88-87 on game losing streak and won Sisters of the Poor. we needed
scored 11 points for Utah.
into a reverse slam dunk. a driving layup with 2:22 left 
for just the sixth time in 15 a 'W' -so that's what that
Bussell and Olden Polynice
On Lhe next trip down the after the Sixers missed 12 games. In the final seconds, intensity was all about."
added 10 each.
floor. Williams was again con­straight shots and went 7:58 Riley turned to the fans seated Hardaway said.
Orlando led the entire second
fused when Davis rebounded without a field goal. 
behind him and gleefully Hardaway gave the lieut the
half until Malone hit a free
P..I. Brown's miss and tossed it Hichmond then missed a 
shouted: "It's the worst month lead for good on a 3-pointer
throw to tie the game at 84
over Williams' head and jumper and, after Snow missed 
I ever had, but it's November. with 3:14 left in the first quar­
and a jumper that put the Jazz
through the hoop. a jumper, Iverson intercepted 
It's over." ter, and Miami steadily built its 
up two with 1:12 to play.
Before the half was over, the an outlet pass and Snow made 
Tim Hardaway added 16 lead from that point on. A pair
A pair of free throws by
Hornets had a 58-40 lead two free throws to give the points and Eddie Jones 15 for ol' foul shots by Hardaway with
Manning gave Utah a four­
behind 65 percent shooting. Sixers a 90-87 lead with 29.4 
the Heat. 4:12 left in the second quarter
point lead at the 39.1 mark.
Toronto mounted a mini­seconds left. 
Latrell Sprewell was practi­have the Heat a double-digit
Orlando led by as many as
comeback in the third quarter, Hamilton missed a 3-pointer cally a one-man offense for the lead, 41-30. that grew to 15 by
nine points in the fourth quar­
cutting the score to 68-58 on that would've tied the game 
Knicks down the stretch, scor­halftime.
ter but the Jazz used an 11-3
Mark Jackson's 3-pointer with with 22 seconds left, and ing 12 of his 22 points in the The lead reached 17 early in
run to cut the Magic's lead to
4:04 to go in the period. Ratliff sealed it with two free 
final quarter. Allan Houston the third before the Knicks
79-78 with 5:21 remaining.
But Charlotte answered with throws. 
added 15 and Glen Hice 12. started chipping away. New
McGrady helped break open
six strnight points to retake Iverson entered the game 
With Patrick Ewing traded to York cut its deficit to seven
a close game when he scored
control. Wesley hit a 16-foot shooting a 37 percent, but hit Seattle and Alonzo Mourning early in the fourth quarter on
eight consecutive points early
jumper, Jamaal Magloire six of eight shots for 16 points out for the season. the a pair of foul shots by Hice but
in the third quarter to give
blocked Williams' shot at the in the first half. He finished matchup took on a different failed several times to get clos­
Orlando a 58-48 lead. 
other end and Wesley convert­10-of-24 from the field. 8-of-8 look. But one thing stayed con­er.
Malone then scored the
ed it into a driving layup. from the foul line. and added stant -Miami's ability to work Sprewell had a shot blocked
game's riext six points to close
Magloire then blocked six rebounds. 
the ball inside and dominate by Grant and Hice missed a 3­
Orlando's lead to 58-54.
Jackson's shot and the Hornets Philadelphia took its biggest underneath. Grant shot 9-for-pointer before Jones grabbed
But McGrady followed with a
made it 74-58 on a fast-break lead, 44-28. on a driving layup 12 and Mason was 6-f'or-10 an offensive rebound that led
dunk as the Magic went on to
jump shot by Davis. 
by Snow midway through the from the field. to a three-point play by Grant
build its lead to 71-62 after
Jamal Mashburn finished second. 
"Because of Patrick and Zo. for a 72-62 lead with 8:34 left.
three quarters.
with 18 points for Charlotte. Aaron McKie had seven it didn't feel like a typical Sprewell then started going
Orlando closed the first half
Davis had 14 points, 11 assists points in the second quarter, 
Knicks-Heat," Miami's Tim 1-on-1 with Jones and getting
on an 11-4 run to lead 47-46.
and seven rebounds. including a layup off a behind­
Hardaway said. ''I've been the best of him each time,
Antonio Davis led Toronto the-back pass from Iverson through them all, so I should scoring eight points in New 
with 15 points and 12 
and a 3-pointer. Heat 84, Knicks 81 know. If we get back in the York's 10-0 run that made it a rebnunds. 
Snow beat the buzzer with a There was something quite playoffs against each other two-point game with 4:34 lel't. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 1.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must b,· prepaid. _
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the nght to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
THE COPY SHOP laFortune Student Center Store Hours Mon-Thur: 7·30 am-Midnight Fri 7:30 arn-7·oo pm Sat. Noon-6:00 p.m. Sun Noon-Midnight PHONE 631-COPY 
FOR RENT 
ONLY 3 HOUSES LEFT, 4,5,6 bdrm, furn, sec. sys!, w/d. PRIME Locations Util. Included 233-9947. 
5 bdrm. 2 bath, completely remod­eled 8/00, new. furnace, roof, car­pel, appl., W/D, security & more. 
Horne is on 3 lots 
Alum owned, must see. 240-0322 • Jason. 
LOST & FOUND 
LOST: MAN'S WEDDING RING IN SOUTH DINING HALL AREA ON MONDAY, NOV. 13 PLEASE CALL KEITH AT 1-6147. REWARD"! 
LOST GOLD HEART & C Z BRACELET AT ND-BC GAME, SECTION 32. GIFT TO MY WIFE, HUGE SENTI­MENTAL VALUE. IF FOUND, PLEASE CONTACT ME @ DUBE.1 @NO.EDU 
LOST: Black pea coat w/Pentax camera in pocket Please call Kristin @ 2871 or return to Lyons Hall rectress, no qLJestions asked. 
LOST· 

Dark Gray Kenneth Cole watch dur­ing BC game. Call 1-480-363-1981 . 
WANTED 

SOUTH BEND SENIOR HOCKEY LEAGUE Not too late to join a team for this seasonl Players of all experience levels are welcome. -No Check Rules -Ice Box Skating Rink (5 min. drive from campus) -Garnes Played Once Per Week Contact B111 Lerman at 236-5107 
Billl@steelwarehouse.net 
PART TIME HELP WANTED 
Prof. Male, Granger area, needs after-school/domestic help, for 2 teenage boys, moo -fri aboul 20 hrs a week. Non-smoking, fun-loving, with upbeat disposition a must. Cooking, cleaning, laundry & groc. Shopping. Inquiries w/ ref. To: PO BOX2931 SOUTH BEND, IN 46680 
FOR SALE 
PHONE CARDS 
$20 1558 MIN. 
CALL 284-5145 or 258-4805 
PERSONAL 
Impress potential employers. Keep in contact with friends and rel­atives 
Student "business" cares are NOW available at 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
Looking for a unique gift? Bring in 12 of your favorite pictures and we'll make a 2001 color copy calendar that is sure to be appreciated. 
THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center 
VOTE FOR NOTRE DAME IN TOURNEY OF TRADITIONS! Go to http :!/promotions.go. com/espn/tos ti­tos/f rontpage. htm I and vote for ND in ESPN.com's Tourney of Traditions! Vote now for ND to advance through the top 16 to win No.1 for the school with the best football tradition. While you're there, enter for a cha nee to win a trip for up to 10 people to the 2001 Toslitos Fiesta Bowl in Tempe, Arizona. Go ND! 
COLLEGE SCHOLARSHIPS 300,000+ private sector scholar­ships available for undergraduate and graduate students at accredit­ed colleges in the USA regardless of their GPA, finances, age or citi­zenship Write or call for FREE information and application. 
Scholarship Database Service 
P.O. Box432 Notre Dame, IN 46556-0432 
Barnyard8961@hotmail.com 1 ·800-936-3706 
Interested in meeting someone new? Call 233-0861 . 
whoa, who killed that cat? 
Finn, that C-5 problem doesn't want to go away 
Jose, you'll always be "Mr. President" to me. 
Kate, we'll be great Oval Office employees. 
who else hates that new Ralph Lauren commercial? 
I thought I was your snack-pac 
Sure, frrst and second grades we're easy, but division, social studies? This is going to be tough 
Who's Chilly Willy? AM you're Chilly Willy 
He's the only penguin that has to wear a hat 
AM-I think we're OK 

Thursday, November 30, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Maryland welcomes Friedgen 

Friedgen is the architect of a Yow said. 
Associated P rcss 
Georgia Tech attack that last The last time Maryland experi­year led the nation in total enced a run of success was when offense with a school-record 509 Friedgen served under Ross asThere were iimes when Ralph 
yards per game. Despite losing offensive coordinator and quar­
Friedgen wondered if he was 
star quarterback Joe Hamilton, terbacks coach from 1982 to
destined to forever toil in obscu­
the Yellow Jackets went 9-2 this 1986. The Terrapins went 39­
rity as an assistant football 
season and will be playing in a 19-1 over that span, winning
coach. 
bowl for the fourth consecutive three Atlantic Coast Conference
'Td almost resigned myself to 
year. titles.
it. No one knew who I was," 
Friedgen expects similar suc­Since 1986, however
Friedgen said Wednesday after 
cess at Maryland. Maryland has finished over .500
ho was hired as head coach at 
"I think the football experience in the ACC only twice. going 4-3
Maryland. "You kind of wonder 
should be fun, but fun to me is both times.
whether you're going to get this 
winning. Our goal is to be a Top After his playing days were
opportunity or not." 
20 team, year in and year out " over, Friedgen started his coach­
His patience was rewarded. 
he said. ' ing career in College Park as a
Friedgen has the job of his 
Maryland athletic director graduate assistant under Jerry
dreams. ending a 29-year run as 
Debbie Yow contacted Clair borne. 
a second fiddle after signing a 
Friedgen's agent on the night Assistant jobs at The Citadel,
guaranteed six-year. $1.05 mil­
she fired Vanderlinden. Over the William Mary and Murray State

lion contract at his alma mater. 
next few days, several players followed before he returned to
"I waited all my life for this 
asked her to pursue the coach Maryland, where he tutored
opportunity, and I'm not going to 
whose offense rolled up 35 future NFL quarterbacks
let anybody down," said 
points against Boomer Esiason, Frank Reich
Fried gen, who 
the Terrapins and Stan Gelbaugh during his
immediately 
"/ waited all my life for this month. five-year run.
resigned as 
"They said, Friedgen left with Ross for
offensive coor­this opportunity and I'm 
'Could you Georgia Tech in 1987, and three
dinator of not going to let anyone 
interview the years later the Yellow Jackets
Peach Bowl­
down" guy from beat Nebraska in the Florida
bound Georgia 
Georgia Tech, Citrus Bowl to claim a share of
Tech. 
the one wbo the national championship. 
"I'm taking Ralph Friedgen 
coaches Ross and Friedgen both went 
over today and 
head coach offense?"' to the Chargers after the 1991
I'm not looking 
Yow related, season. Friedgen was offensive
back. Full 
hammering coordinator of the 1994 San
speed ahead. It's hard for me to 
home Friedgen's reputation as Diego team that went to the
leave, but this is my opportunity. 
an anonymous coach. Super Bowl. 
I feel bad for those young men, 
She then introduced the burly When Ross moved to the
but they've got to und·erstand 
Friedgen as "the man who will Detroit Lions in 1997, Friedgen
that this is what I have to do." 
return our program to national returned to Georgia Tech as
The 53-year-old coach takes 
prominence." offensive coordinator under 
over a long-suffering program 
Yow figured she couldn't find a George O'Leary. 
that hasn't produced a winning 
coach with better credentials O'Leary was happy for
record since 1995 or earned a 
than Friedgen, who helped Friedgen, saying Wednesday,
bowl bid since 1990. He replaces 
Georgia Tech claim a national "Obviously he's done a masterful
Ron Vanderlinden, who was 
championship·and worked with job here. I think it's great for the 
fired Nov. 19 after a lopsided 
Bobby Ross to get the San Diego ACC to get another coach who is
loss to Georgia Tech concluded 
Chargers into the Super Bowl. going to keep the programs mov­
his fourth straight losing season. 
"To me, that sets him apart," ing in the right direction." 
What's the Word...? 
--1.111&1 

It's Fun... It's Cool... & Now it's Special Just for You!! 
Come Join Us At 
COI,J,EGE NIG 
BEACON BOWL CIDPPEWABOWL 
Alabama struggles to find head coach ... 
was this week's visit by NCAA 
Associated Press 
investigators, who are inter­
viewing DuBose and three of 
his assistants as well as severalAlabama is struggling to find players. Plus. Alabama is seek­a football coach, with Tommy ing its fifth head coach sinceBowden, Frank Beamer and Bear Bryant retired after theButch Davis passing on what 
1982 season. 
was once one of the country's "At one time. there were 4.5
top jobs. 
programs that were what peo­Athletic director Mal Moore ple considered premier pro­is prepared to pay about $1 grams in the country." saidmillion a year but has had little Bob Bockrath, who was the 
success getting big-name 
Title's athletic director whencoaches to interview for the DuBose was hired in 1996.
job. 
"That isn't the case anymore.
Mike DuBose resigned under "Times have changed. If youpressure Nov. 1 after a home­look at who's been in the Topcoming loss to Central Florida. 
10 the last 10 years, there's aThe Crimson Tide finished the bunch of new names in there." 
season 3-8, their worst record 
Bockrath isn't sure the
since 1957. 
expectations of Tide faithful
On Wednesday, Miami's 
have changed with the times. 
Davis said he was staying put. 
"I just think it's one of those He has been offered a five-year 
regional things," said
contract extension that would Bockrath, fired last year andpay about $1.3 million annual­now AD at Yavapi College in
ly. 
Prescott, Ariz. "They don't
"I listened to what he had to 
quite accept or understand 
say and then I politely told him there are other really good
Mr. Moore I'm flattered 
programs out there. Not to putAlabama has a rich traditio~ down the Alabama program,and !°m su~e it's a good job, but there are a bunch of others but I m not mterested in inter­
who have risen to the same
viewing," Davis said. 
level Alabama was at 10 or 15
On Monday, it was Virginia 
years ago. 
Tech's Beamer who re-upped "I think coaches are maybe a
for more than $1 million, 
little wary of places that have
hours after Moore received 
great expectations that some
permission from Hokies AD 
might view as somewhat unre­
Jim Weaver to speak to the 
alistic."
coach. 
Bockrath wanted to pursue
Two weeks ago, it was 
such names as Beamer andClemson's Bowden getting the Rick Neuheisel but said hebig raise. 
received "thousands" of e­
And Mississippi State's 
~ails. faxes and letters urgingJackie Sherrill, an Alabama him to elevate Tide assistantalum? 
DuBose to the top job in 1996.
"I can end any speculation Former Alabama coach Billreal quick," Sherrill said after Curry thinks behind-the-scenes DuBose's ouster was politics make it more likelyannounced Nov. 1. "It's not 
that someone with ties to 
even an issue." 
Alabama would be more likelyMoore was out of town and to flourish as head coach. 
not available for comment on "The biggest thing for meWednesday. He has said he was to know who was in ourhad a list of five candidates corner and who was not," saidincluding Beamer and Davis: Curry, an ESPN analyst whobut has not disclosed any other coached the Tide from 1987-89 
names. 
and was regarded as an out­Further muddying the search sider by some Alabama fans. 


A Few Good Men 
Mondays & Thursdays Thursdays 
Join Big Brothers
9:00 pm to 12:00 Midnight 9:00 pm to 12:00 Midnight 
today and You can give a
/,u,. Notre Dame -'"' CA\~$ 
·0 -.li. College <t:,, St ~..
BetJtel Ji,c-4 . LY1ary's io\'l ~v 
child the greatest
Show your College I.D.and get unlimited bowling for just $5.95 per person. 
Christmas present he'll 
Shoes not included (College discounts available anytime with a College I.~.).:'.' 
ever receive: A Role Model 
• l!HIPPEWA BOWL BSAl!ON BOWL 225 W. Chippewa Avenue 4210 Lincoln Way West 
Call Matt Koop at 634-4264 
South Bend, IN 46614 South Bead, IN 46628 (219) 291-5093 (219) 234--4167 
or the BBBS Office 232-9958 

-------·· 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 30, 2000 

PGA 
Woods meets with .. Tour commissioner 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

Tiger Woods seemed well on his way to resolving a dispute with PGA Tour com­missioner Tim Finchem 
o v e r market­ing rights following a meet­i 11 g Woods described as "very positive, V C r y upbeat." 
Woods, the No. l player in the world and largely responsible for an enor­mous boost in golf's popu­larity, stunned PGA Tour officials earlier this month when he said the tour was taking financial advantage of him with policies that controlled his rights. 
He also said Finchem only talked to him when the commissioner wanted Woods to play in a 

some of

"ft was very positive, 
particular 
which the 

tournament. very upbeat. There PGA Tour 0 n was no hostility at all ... o w n s
Wednesday, 
because

My relationship with 
Woods said Woods is 
"pretty Tim has definitely 
a mem­

much every­
improved. He was very ber. This 
thing" had 
w o u l d

candid and so was I."
b e e n 
enable 

resolved 
Woods to 

during a 
Tiger Woods explore
meeting 
golfer several 
w i t h 
Finchem two days earlier in Los Angeles. 
"It was very positive, very upbeat. There was no hos­tility al all." Woods said. "My relationship with Tim has definitely improved. He was very candid and so was I. 
"We need a few more sit­down meetings to hammer things out. One of the prob­le ms has been that it is hard to get our schedules clear. He's as busy as I am." 
Finchem also said he was pleased with the meeting. 
'Tm delighted we're dis­cussing the specifics of his business strategy, because a significant mission of the tour is to provide our mem­bers with a strong market­ing platform," he said in a statement. 
Woods described the talks as "comµromises on both sides," but was not specific since details are still being worked out. They discussed player marketing rights, commercial use of player images and the Internet. 
"Wn needed to communi­cate a little bit more. Not, 'My people will talk to your people,' but face-to-face," he said. 
Woods said he also reas­sured Finchem that his objectives have nothing to do with getting a share of the next four-year TV con­tract, which will be negoti­ated next year. 
Woods believes some of the negative public reaction to his earlier comments came because people thought he was asking for a cut of the tour's TV money. He also said he was sur­prised by the number of' other players who reacted positively to his comments. 
Woods first vented his frustrations to Golf World magazine in its Nov. 10 issue. Asked how serious the conflict was. Woods said, "Serious enough that if we don· t make everyone aware of it now, it could escalate into a bigger situa­tion." 
Among his concerns arc implied endorsements, where PGA Tour sponsors were able to use Woods' and other players' images in advertisements, rights foes. in which ABC Spc>rts had to pay the tour $400,000 to televise Woods' exhibition match against David Duval last year. When Woods set up another made-for-TV match against Sergio Garcia this year, the fee was raised to $1. 5 mil­lion. 
Woods is also concernd with interactive media. This involves Woods getting back all of his rights, 
untapped a r e a s involving t h e 

Internet. 
-'The Internet is some­thing we weren't even thinking about 10 years ago. I believe there are a lot of opportunities there not only for players, but for the tour as well," said Woods, one of 12 players shooting for the $1 million winner's prize in the Williams World Challenge, starting Thursday. 
The easy, hassle free way to fly. 
Fly to Orlando/Sanford • Portsmouth, New Hampshire• St. Louis/Belleville, IL• Philadelphia/Allentown, PA 
.--~,~~ziiilit!i> 

... FIIEE Parking • Easy access to all highways• Convenient • Secure 
For Pan Am: 1·800-FLY-PANAM www.flypanam.com For More Information· 
www.garychicagoairport.com 
Patatonia
exclttsively


at . 
~inutes~ 
!!..um 0UT'P'0ST 
'Camnus s ors 
T 
Com,_,,..,. In-,a.i• 

Call 259-2000 for more details 
The Faces of Holy Cross 

"Our calling is to serve the Lord Jesus in mission not as independent individuals but as a brotherhood.'' 
(Constitutions of the Congregation of Holy Cross, IV.33) 
ANSWER * 
THECALL W 

www.nd.edu/-vocation 
'f'it>­
WHEN: December 6, 2000 @ 5: 30 PM WHERE: CSC Coffee House Please RVSP by December 1, 2000 
-·to MSPS@ 1-6841 _., 0@~~~@~@~~.~@~~~@{bu;i~~ 


Save the planet. 
Recycle The Observer. 
Thursday, November 30, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Purdue turnovers allow No. 21 Viriginia to take victory 
No. 23 Wisconsin 78, one short of the school record. 
Associated P re>s 
The game was tied at 62
No. 13 Maryland 7 5 
after regulation.
Kirk Penney scored five of 
Charlie Wills' two free
The ACC-13ig Ten Challenge his 18 points in overtime as 
throws with 51 seconds left in
proved little challenge at all No. 23 Wisconsin held off 
regulation put Wisconsin
for No. 21 Virginia as the ball­13th-ranked Marylandin an 
ahead 62-59, but Steve Blake,
hawking Cavaliers forced ;n ACC-Big Ten Challenge game 
who hadn't scored since the
turnovers and ran away from at the mostly empty Bradley 
first half, hit a 3-pointer from
Purdue for a 98-79 victory. Center. 
the top of the key with 36 sec­
Virginia, with a 4-0 record Penney, a sophomore who 
onds left.
this season, got 24 points each was O-for-13 from the field in 
The Badgers worked the ball
from Chris Williams and the Badgers' opener, hit a 3­
for a final shot, but Boone was
Donald Hand as it kept its best pointer on the first possession 
badly out range when he tired
start since the 1992-93 season of overtime and Wisconsin (2­
up a 3-pointer that didn't
going. Those Cavaliers won 1J never trailed again. 
come close.
their first 11 games before The Terrapins (1-3) lost for 
Mike Vershaw scored six
splitting their final 20. the third straight time despite 
points in an 11-0 run the
Purdue (1-2). coming off a holding an opponent to less 
Badgers used to take a 50-42
72-69 victory over then-No. 1 than 39 percent shooting for 
lead with 10 minutes left. But
Arizona, looked like it was ill­the fourth consecutive game. 
Nicholas made four foul shots,
prepared for Virginia's trap­They turned the first meeting 
Mike Mardesich made a nifty
ping zone press, repeatedly between the schools in 68 
basket underneath and Tahj
throwing the ball away before years into a fou lfes t after 
Holden's wide-open 3 with six
getting past halfcourt. falling behind 70-63 on 
minutes left gave Maryland a
The Cavaliers turned 15 Penney's free throw with 56 
51-50 lead and ensured an
first-half turnovers into 17 seconds left. 
exciting finish. 
points en route to a 45-27 The Badgers' victory seemed 
The Badgers jumped out to
lead, then coaxed four more secured when Maryland's 
leads of11-2 and 21-10 before
miscues early in the second Drew Nicholas misfired on a 
the Terrapins settled down.
half. long 3-pointer with 10 seconds 
Juan Dixon, who scored 11
Virginia played at top speed left and Roy Boone was fouled 
of his 12 points in the first
throughout and either drove to on the rebound. Hi.s two free 
hall', gave Maryland its first
the hoop or pounded the ball throws gave Wisconsin a 78­
lead at 32-31 with a layup at
inside. The Cavaliers got 22 of 71 lead. 
2:49 of the first half. 
their first 32 points in close. But the pesky Terrapins 
Wisconsin trailed 37-34 at
and had 13 second-chance scored on Byron Mouton's bas­
halftime.
points to Purdue's 1 in the ket, stole the ball and Terence 
The 19,150-seat Bradley
half. Morris made two foul shots 
Center was only about one­
In one 9 1/2-minute stretch with a second left. 
third full. The late start, the 
very early in the game, Mouton led the Terrapins 
fact the game was on televi­
Virginia forced 12 turnovers with 14 points. 
sion, higher ticket prices than
and outscored the Wisconsin senior guard Mike 
at the Kohl Center and snow
Boilermakers 28-7. That gave Kelley, coming off a career­
falling along the 90-mile trek
them a 30-12 lead 8:12 before high 17 points against 
from Madison kept the walk­
halftime, and the Northern Illinois, was held 
up crowd down.
Boilermakers never got closer scoreless until 2:48 of over­ilian13. · ' time. when he hit a 12-foot Joe Marshall led Purdue jumper that gave the Badgers No. 22 Cincinnati 82, with 19 points and Rodney a 67-62 lead. 
Dayton 75 
Smith had 14. Kelley did have 12 assists, 
Steve Logan scored 21 points 
Mo,st ND: Stude.n_ts Make Healthy· Choices i 
i ·[ 
:, 'iij 
,2 
f 
l 
f 
I 

More than 80% drink only once 
f

a week or less frequently. 
f

Many ND students choose 15 NOT to drink alcohol.* J 
A message from PILLARS with Alcohol & Drug Education 311 LaFortune Student Center University ofNotre Dame (219) 631-7970 http://www.nd.edu/~aldrug/ 

... 
and No. 22 Cincinnati used a throws in the final minute, to suffocating full-court press to lead Minnesota to a 76-71 vic­beat No. 24 Dayton. tory over Florida State in the 
Kenny Satterfield added 20 ACC/Big Ten Challenge. points and made some late The Golden Gophers took free throws for the Bearcats control in the final three min­(3-1). utes of a back-and-forth game 
Th~ Flyers, playing as a that included 15 ties. Forward ranked team for the first time Mike Bauer hit a 3-point shot since 1974. was 5-of-9 from 3-with 2:37 left to give point range in the first half, Minnesota a 68-65 lead, and but went cold in the second, the Seminoles never caught up. going 2-of-9. Tony Stanley Minnesota coach Dan scored 21 points, and Brooks Monson said the Golden Hall added 17 for Dayton, but Gophers "played with fire" by the Flyers turned the ball over not taking control of the game 19 times. earlier. But he praised his 
With Dayton (2-2) leading team's competitiveness. 56-43 with 12:54 left in the "Our guys didn't go away," game, the Bearcats went into Monson said. "They stayed a full-court press, forcing sev­together and made some shots eral turnovers and scoring and finally got some nine straight points. Cincinnati rebounds." tied the game 58-58 with 8:28 The end of the game left left. Florida State coach Steve 
The Bearcats took the lead Robinson and his players frus­for good with 3:19 remaining trated. The Seminoles made on Jamall Davis' three-point only two of their last six shots, play. Dayton got within 71-70 missing four 3-pointers. wi,th 2:09 to play, but "They were very good shots," Satterfield made five of six said junior guard Monte free throws to seal the game. Cummings, who led Florida 
Cincinnati leads the series State with 15 points. "We had 55-28, winning 37 of the last the right guys taking them." 44 meetings. The Bearcats Minnesota (5-1) bounced have won 10 straight over back from a loss Sunday to Dayton, last losing to the Georgetown. Florida State (1­Flyers in 1989. 4) was coming off a win over 
The Bearcats, who lost Rhode Island in the Great Kenyon Martin, Pete Mickeal, Alaska Shootout. The Golden DerMarr Johnson and Ryan Gophers limited Florida State's Fletcher from its 29-4 team top three scorers, Nigel Dixon, last season, came into the Michael Joiner and Adrian game off a 69-51 loss to Notre Crawford, to a total of 15 Dame on Saturday. points. 
Minnesota hit 10 of 16 shots 
from 3-point range, while
Minnesota 76, 

Florida State hit only 3 of 11. Florida State 71 Dixon, who came into the Terrance Simmons scored 19 game averaging 14.5 points,
points, including four free was held scoreless. 

LOW 
0 iii 
::, 0 
m 
.!: 

~ ::, 
::,
co 

student ,, 
CD 1? C
al 
g­
-0 
m

i !!?.
<{ 

7J0 iil 
~ (0 C E Airfares Ill ~ E m 
CD
0 
Ill
.c 
::,
~ 

u5 g C Eurailpasses (0 "'" 6 
<l) s:: 
0
O> 
Ch
al 
0
.c 
<l) 
0.. 
r 

(.) C 0 More Than ~ cii" 
0
<l) 
::,

100 Departure Cities er 
-~ 
z 
s:: 
Ill 
Q­
CD

Study Abroad C: 
Ill 
0 
Ill 
~

ec:•. £ ::, 
~ 
<­
0
::,­

student UOIV8rSe ~ c::· 
lg

IT'S YOUR WORLD. EXPLORE IT ­
::, 
m 
Ch 
O" 
C 
.a 
0 
~

studentuniverse.com <t> 
800.272.9676 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 30, 2000 
NFL 
Warner returns fro01 finger injury 
-
A•sociatcd Pres• 
ST. LOUIS It's official: Kurt Warner is back. The MVP quarterback took snaps Wednesday for the first 
time in more than five weeks and report­ed no prob­lems with the little finger on his throw­


ing hand. warner He felt so good. in facl. that he joked after prac­tice about requiring further surgery. "I feel good, real good," Warner said. Before his acid test. Warner said there were no worries. "I've been kind of banging it around a little bit and checking it out to see how it feels," Warner said. "So [ really wasn't worried at all. "Actually. it was less painful than I thought it might be tak­ing the snaps." Warner looked good, too, zip­ping passes all over the field. "He didn't skip a beat," coach Mike Martz said. "He looked just like he did before he got injured. It's pretty amazing." In fact, Martz said Warner returned with better mechan­ics. "The more you play, some 
things start to deteriorate," Martz said. "I think the time off has helped him. He's a little fresher and more compact; he's back to where he was in the beginning." 
Warner said there's no rea­son why he can't pick up right where he left off. 
"l especially think so after practicing today," he said. "If I can make all the throws todav, and my reads were quick today, there's no reason to think they won't be that same way on Sunday." 
Warner was injured on an awkward snap from backup center Steve Everitt near the end of the half of a 54-34 loss at Kansas City. He wore a plas­tic protective piece on the fin­ger during practice, but team doctors say he shouldn't have to wear that on game day. 
He's anxious to make his return from a five-game absence on Sunday at Carolina. The team is every bit as anx­ious after going 2-3 without him, although they're careful not to blame backup Trent Green or speak of Warner as some type of savior. 
"We should have gone 5-0 with him at the helm," middle linebacker London Fletcher said. "I know Kurt is the reign­ing league MVP and Super Bowl MVP, but it doesn't mat­ter. If we continue to do the things we've done these last live games, we're going to lose again." 
Warner also defended Green, who has 16 touchdown passes and five interceptions but has borne the brunt of criticism in St. Louis. 
"I definitely don't think Trent was lhe problem," Warner said. "I think it's ridiculous that people are pointing to him in any way." 
Still. Warner undoubtedly will give the Rams a lift. He's 22-4 as a starter and has thrown for 300 or more yards in 17 of those starts. 
He topped 300 yards the first six games of the season, lead­ing St. Louis to a 6-0 start, and leads the NFL with a 111.6 passer rating. 
Oddsmakers figure Warner will make a big difference and return the Rams. who had scored 40 points in four con­secutive games before the Chiefs game. to their high-fly­ing days. They're eight-point favorites Sunday against the Panthers, coming off an impressive 31-14 victory over the Packers on Monday night, and the over-under is 58 points -the highest in the NFL by 13 points. 
"it's not going to be a giant difference performance-wise." center Andy McCollum said. "But it's definitely good to see Kurt back." 
McCollum didn't put a soft touch on the snap to make sure Warner didn't get hurt again. 
"No problems at all," McCollum said. "He said it felt good. too, and he sure looked good throwing." 
Palmer says rookie QB Wynn could start for Cleveland 
Associated Press 
BEHEA. Ohio 

Spergon Wynn hegan the season as an anonymous rookie 
quarterback from Southwest Texas State fighting to make the 
Cleveland Browns. 

On Sunday, he could get his first NFL start when the Browns 
visit the Jacksonville Jaguars. 

Cleveland coach Chris Palmer wouldn't say Wednesday if he 
would start Wynn or stick with Doug Pederson, who's nursing 
bruised ribs. 

"I'd like to reserve that until later on in the week," Palmer said. 
"Jacksonville has a very complicated defense and something that creates problems for the quarterback whether you're Doug Pederson or Spergon Wynn. and you have to be able to go in there and figure it out." 
Palmer's choice might be made easy if Pederson's ribs don't 
heal quickly. 

Despite wearing a flak jacket. he was injured when he got hit by Ravens linebackP.r Hay Lewis during Sunday's 44-7 loss at Baltimore. Pederson was kept out of throwing drills during prac­tice on Wednesday and could be limited the rest of the week. 
However, even if Pederson is healthy enough to play, Palmer might have other plans. 
Palmer has said he would use the final three games this season to evaluate many of his young and seldom-used players to deter­mine their futures with the Browns. 
One of those players is Wynn, a sixth-round pick. 
Wynn, who began the year trying to be the Browns' No. 3 QB behind Tim Couch and Ty Detmer. has played in six games this season. including a half in Baltimore. 
Wynn finished 5-of-9 for 30 yards but was sacked four times. He has yet to lead the Browns on a scoring drive this season and hasn't been closer than the opposition's 41-yard line. 
"That's one of the things that intrigues me about the guy," Palmer said. "He goes in and he's got ice in his veins. He's like, 'Where's the ball? OK, let's go."' 

hursday. November 0 ,00 p.11. ·College Bowl" Cnrler-llna.ls Scnl-flna.ls · ohe l>1.11c ltoo11, La.forlune Sludenl Ccnler ,30 p.11. Men's a.nd Wo¦ en's Sw11111lnq. n1> lnvlla.· lona.l, !lolls Aqua.lie Ccnlcr ,00 p.11. "Good Ca.lhollcs 6 free C1llans, Pa.r1skes. ollllcs, ud Co1111unlly In lnperla.l Gcr11uy 1890-1914". Spnker, l1.11es [. 8)ork. tfcsburqh Llbra.ry ,c,lty lo,nqe ,00 p.11. f1l11 screenl•g ol "'Ilic Bronze Screen, 100 ea.11 ol ldlno 111191 In Hollywood {1nc111•. cKcnlll H,11 aslhnlrc ,00 p.11. 8ook 11.lk 1.nd slqn111q by br. Y ur,I rud1ellcr, ,1ul~or ol "Jor's Trl1I Mosts Brud", 111ncs Moire l>111c Boohstore 7,00 p.n. Lecture, "llilnklnq with Wllckcs • Stereotypes of E11bod1ed EY1l. llien a.nd now•. 129 l>eButolo Hall ,00 p.n. !tock nDcdrlc Chrlslnu Speci1.I, Keouqk tf,11 ,30 p.n. ·n,e (011ed1ol frror,·-Pl,y. Hesburg~ enter lor lnl'I Sludles Aud1torl11n• ,30 p.11.-10,30 p.11. Open llrc L1trone, Coart I. SP.C ,30 p.11.-M1dn1qU n1> f1prcH 8111!11ds q111u open, ,rort,nc Sl,drnl Ccnlcr ,00 p.a. ,1cousllc (1,fe, bforl1nc Student Center uddle 10,00 p.11. "U11phreys McGee· Ch1c1qo 1111 Bud· a.forlune Sludcnl Ccnlcr 81llroon• 10,00 p.11. -M1dn1q~I Slep111 Ccnler, Open Pl,y ukclb,111nd Vollcyb1II 10,30 p.11. Movie, ·wt,,/L1,, 8en,,lli: l>cb11lolo 101"',nd "U511: l>c6ulolo155"' 
Friday. December I 
6,00 p.11. -M1d11qU Slcpan Center, Open Play 8ukelb,II and Volleyb1II 6,30 p.11. Men's ud Wo11en's Swl11nlnq, n1> lnvll1llon1l, ltolfs Aqua.Ile Center 7,00 p.11.-10,00 p.11. Open P.ec 81Cl111nton, Courl 2, R.Sll.C 7,30 p.11. "!lie Co11,d1ollrrors•-Pla.y, Hesbur9h Ccnlcr for lnl'I Sludle:. '1udllorlun• 7,30 p.11. Concerl, •,1 Ckrlsl11u Vlslon"-Volces ol f11lk <iosprl no1r. tfe5b119h Llbruy Audllo,11111"' 7,30 p.11. Ctncaa. al lle Snlle, "lie (el,br•llon: S111le Muscun"' 8,00 p.11. Ca.rroll Hill Tree l19H1n9 Ccre11ony, front Inn ol Curoll 11111 6,00 p.11. Moire l>111e Colleqlu11 Maslm1, St Mufs Colleqe 6,00 p.11. Mo,le, "Wl•I Lies 8ene,lh: l>eBulolo IOI* 6 ·us?t: t>c&a.rlolo 155* 6,30 p.¦.-Mldn!qU 81ll111ds co ¦ pellhon, free b1ll111ds 1.nd rclrHh11enh, n1> [1pm, 9,30 p.¦. Ctncaullhc Snlle, ~llvne: Snlle Muc,11• 10,30 p.a. Movie. ·wJ.iLJes/Jene,IJ:De8ulolo 101• 8 "U.S?t: l>e811lolo 155* 
Saturday. December 2 
5,00 p.a. Stepa.n Cenlcr, Open ~11.7 8ukelb1II lRd Volleyball 6,00 p.a. "Colleqc &owl" flna.ls • 81llroo11. la.forlune 6,30 p.a. Men's ud Wonen's Swln11ln9. Ml> ln,1l1­llon1l. kolh Aqu1llc Cenler 7,30 p.a. ·t1sl1,n ,1llure• -Wuhln9lon H,11 7,30 p.11. C1nea111 !Le Snlle. "lie Celebr•llon: Snlle Muscua"' 7,30 p.11. "/lie (011ed1 ollrrors •-Pl1y, Hesbur9l Center for lnl'I Sladles Audllorlun"' 6,00 p.11. Movie, ·wt,, ILies /Jene,IJ: be8ulolo IOI"' ind·US?t: l>c811lolo 155" 6,30 p.¦.-M1dn19hl nl> bprcu 81ll111ds q111es open. L1forlune Sludenl Center 9,30 p.11. Clne111 d !Le Snlle, 'Mllune: Snllc Mucun• 10,30 p.11. Movie, ·WA•I lies /Jene•lh: DeBulolo 101"' ud ·us?J:t>e8ulolol55* 
Denotes admission charge for ND/SMC students 
f'rogramsare~bµt to change 
without notice. For up to date information, check out the ND calendar, Today@ ND at www.nd.edu or call Student Activities at 631-T:JJ8. fo add an event to further calendars, pie~ ~1d thedetail5 aoout the activity to 
sao@id.edu. 

----7 
I 
' 
Thursday, November 30, 2000 I
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
l 

NCAA FOOTBALL 

Wildcats preparing for Sooner showdown 
Debbie Ballou (Professor of Management, UNO)
September 1 
"Oveiview of Current E-commerce Issues" David Oveibeeke (Gen. Manager E-business, GE Aircraft Engines)
September 15 
"Business to Business E-commerce" September 29 Geoff Robertson (Vice President of Engineering, mvp.com) "Starting a B2C Company" October6 Michael Cullinane (Chief Financial Officer, divine interVentures) "How to Value an E-business" Colleen Sullivan (Dir. of Information Systems, Alltel Communlcatfons)
October 27 

"Data Warehousing and Mining for Building Business Intelligence" Rick Spurr (Senior Vice President, Entrust Technologies}
November3 

"Internet Security Threats and Measures to Deal with Them" Reuben Slone (Vice President of Global E-business, Whirlpool)
November 10 
"Supply Chain Management" Chetyl Aetterick (Manager, PricewaterhouseCoopers)
November 17 
"Conducting E-business Assessment" 
Dr. Anatole Gershman (Director, Andersen Consulting)
December 1 
"Emerging Trends and Technologies in E-commerce" 
All lectures held from 10:4oam-12:05pm Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business Notre Dame facul~·, staffand students arc welcome to attend these presentations 


'{/J 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
For People. Not for Profit. 

Granger Station Office Hours Near Martin's Monday -Friday 12980 State Road 23 10:00 a.m. -6:30 p.m. Suite F 
Saturday 

Granger, IN 46530 9:00 a.m. -2:00 p.m. 219/239-9351 AlMs 800/522-6611 24-Hours a Day, ?-Days a Week 
No purchase necessary. Contest begins November 3, and·ends December 15, 2000. One entry per person. Must be 18 years old or older to participate. TI1e drawing will be held at noon (1.1.:00 p.m.) on December 15, 2000. Need not be present to win. Employees of Notre Dame Federal Credit UniOn and their immediate family members are not eligible to win. This promotion IS only being offered at the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union Granger Station location. Notre Dame federal Credit Unioo is independent of the University. 
Associated Press 
MANHATTAN, Kan. Oklahoma more. than beat Kansas State. 
With a 41-31 victory last month, the Sooners cast doubt on whether the Wildcats with their pillowy­soft schedule even deserved a place among the college foot­ball elite. 
Ben Leber, still perspiring, gave voice to what Kansas State fans everywhere must have been wishing on that chilly night in the Flint Hills. 
"I hope we'll see them again this year in Kansas City," the senior linebacker said. "Things might be different 

then." "There ·s obviously Oklahoma And so the 
that burning desire knocked 
Wildcats have 
Kansas

to get revenge ... we
their wish. As State out of 

Saturday know what's at stake." the national night's Big 12 
champi­title game 
onship pic­

Ben Leber
against No. 1 
ture, the

Kansas State linebacker
Oklahoma 
drew near, they were working hard to learn their plays, absorb the game plan and keep their feelings in check. 
"If we come out and play with tao much emotion we'll lose focus," Leber said. "There's obviously that burn­ing desire to get ~evenge. But you have to take it as a game and keep it on the lines. We know what's at stake here." 
Kansas State (10-2) was ranked No. 2 and hoping for a shot at the national champi­onship when Josh Heupel and his eighth-ranked Sooners came to Manhattan and man­handled them. 
The sting of the loss was even greater because it seemed to validate critics who had said for years that Kansas State was merely a pretender, building a reputa­tion by routing an unending parade of pushovers. 
Everyone knew, including the Wildcats, that Oklahoma 

was the first team of ability they'd met all year. · 
"The last couple of weeks has been all about business," said quarterback Jonathai1 Beasley, who was plainly out­played by Heupel in their first game. 
"They beat us earlier in the year so we know what we need to do." 
The Wildcats have taken a cue from defensive coordina­tor Phil Bennett. 
"We decided to start over after that loss," said defensive back Jon McGraw. "Coach Bennett has a saying that people in football remember November. So that's what we 're going to try to do." 
At the 
same time 
Sooners 
jumped into 
contention 

themselves. ln their next game, they beat No. 1 Nebraska and assumed the ranking they'll be out to pro­tect Saturday night in Kansas City's Arrowhead Stadium. 
At stake for Oklahoma is a ticket to the Orange Bowl to battle Florida State for the Sooners' first national cham­pionship since 1985. On the line for the Wildcats is a big dose of revenge, a possible Fiesta Bowl bid and vindica­tion that they are indeed a member of the game's elite. 
"I think we've got some scores to settle with them from October," said running back Josh Scobey. "It's really good to get a second chance. We believe that we've got everything to gain and every­thing to lose. We feel like we have a lot riding on this ball game." · 
The Wildcats would love nothing more than to spoil Oklahoma's party. 
Michigan City Outlet Mal 1 bus trip 
departure 
point: library Circle 
meeting time: 09:45am return time: 05:00pm 

mode; chartered buses I 
toll:$~ I 
SU tickets: available at lafun info desk 11/20 
-
I I I 
' 
J ' 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 30, 2000 
MASTERS CUP 
Sampras slams Corretja after opening tourney with loss 
A..,ociatcd P rcss 
LISBON. Portugal 

With his game looking much sharper, Pete Sampras bounced back Wednesday to beat Alex Corre\ja 7-6, 7-5 and remain in contention for the Masters Cup title. 
Sampras has won this season­ending lournamcnt five times, a record he shares with Ivan 
Lendt. 
Alter losing his opening match to Lleyton Ilewitt 7-5, 6-0 on Tuesday, Sampras needed a vic­tory against Corretja to main­tain his chances of claiming the record for himself. 
"Obviously I didn't have a good night's sleep, you're just tossing and turning, I was just kind of humiliated out there," Sampras said. 
Against Corretja, Sampras looked like a champion again. 
"I served and volleyed very well. I was just a different per­son, a different player," Sampras said. 
Earlier, Yevgeny Kafelnikov rallied past Magnus Norman 4­6, 7-5, 6-1 in his opening match in this $3.7 million tournament for the world's top eight players. 
Marat Safin took another step toward wrapping up the No. 1 spot for the year by beating Hewitt 6-4. 6-4. Satin is now 2-0 in the tournament. while Hewitt fell to 1-1. 
The only way Satin can now fail to clinch No. 1 is if he loses every remaining match and Gustavo Kuerten wins the tour­nament. Sampras finished No. 1 for the year an unprecedented six seasons in a row before Andre Agassi wound up No. 1 last year. 
Safin. a 20-year-old Russian, will be the youngest player to gain that distinction. 
Against Hewitt, OM of the best returners iu the game, Salin lost his temper and hit a ball into the stands, getting penalized and dropping his serve in the eighth game of the second set. But he broke right back and served out the match with a booming ace. 
Sampras. winner of a record 13 Grand Slam titles, is 1-1 in the round-robin portion of the event, while Corretja is 0-2. 
Sampras will play Safiu on Friday for a place in the semifi­nals. The only time Sampras failed to advance from the round-robin stage was in his debut appearance in 1990. He lost a round-robin match every year he won the elite event. 
The eight players are divided into two groups, with the top two from each group advancing to the semifinals. 
After losing the lJ.S. Open final to Safin in early September, Sampras got mar­ried and did not play another tournament until coming to Lisbon. 
In his first match after taking more than two months off, Sampras was clearly rusty against Hewitt. But he was in command against Corretja, a Spaniard who beat Sampras in the 1998 semifinals before win­ning the title. 
Sampras. the defending cham­pion, never dropped his serve in the match, although he had to save two set points in the open­ing set. 
Arter saving two set points to hold serve for 6-6, Sampras romped to a 4-1 lead in the tiebreaker and won it when Corretja hit a forehand wide. 
A textbook volley helped 


-
Tbu••dogs oPe students night. Students Peceive 25% off meal pPlce wit'1 qou• sfudent 1.0. 
U£I 

Mid.iaft<I•s lftoat unique Jininq ••P41ri•ffc:« Locat.d 111 ti.. b...w...,.. ot tb. Htsfoa-ic too C•"'•• in Mislaawa~o (219) 2.57-1792 www.100cenfer.com 

Pete Sampras pounds a backhand against Alex Corretja. He defeated Corretja in straight sets to advance in the Masters Cup -a tournament he has won five times. 
Sampras save one more break The Russian, who won the point in the 11th game of the Olympic gold medal, started hit­second set. He finally broke ting crisp passing shot winners Corretja to win the match with a to take charge. forehand winner after a long "Right from the beginning, I rally from the baseline. felt like I was in total control of 
Kafelnikov was down a break every single point," Kafelnikov in the second set when he began said. "The problem was that I his comeback by pulling even at was missing a lot. I couldn't find 4-4 on Norman's serve. the range on my ground 
"From a situation where I was strokes, especially on the fore­a set and break down, to come hand." back and win the match, it was Kafelnikov broke serve at love a very satisfying win," for a 2-0 lead in the third and Kafelnikov said. ________w_h-'ip'-"ped an<2.!~er passing shot winner for another break and a 5-1 lead. He won 11 straight points at the start of the set. 
Kafelnikov received treatment for cramps in his forearm dur~ ing the changeover. But it didn't prevent him from serving out the match in the next game. 
"I thought I had a good 
-chance to win the match." Norman said. "I was just a cou­ple of points away, perhaps just one point away. I was very dis­appointed to lose the second set." 


XXX 
COMMISSIONER APPLICATIONS 
StudentActivities Office Roo1n 314 LaFortune 
Deodline: 

a:00 pm Friday, December la, 2000 
Checkout tl1e website for more hlfVJovEo FoR 
PosTiNG 

www.nd.edu/~bkstr/ 
PULL DATE 
DEC 1 6 7n11n 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE UNIVERSITY :JF NOTRE DAME 

Thursday, November 30, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
Irish 
continued from page 28 
American list in the nation, is still impressive. Through Wednesday, he ranked second in the nation in scoring with 28.0 points per game, with the leader being Okechi Egbe, who plays for Tennessee-Martin, not exact­ly a top 25 team. 
The Irish still look to Murphy first for scoring, as evidenced by his 30 points against the lfoarcats, but he has help this year. 
The Irish know what to expect in big games this year, and that includes an expectation of victo­ry. When the second half began t~ wear on Saturday and Cincinnati was still clinging to Notre Dame's jerseys, the Trish shook them off by turning up the heat on defense, allowing the Bearcab just one offensive rebound in the second stanza. The Irish also made their shots from the field and the free throw line to lock up the win. 
"We just buckled down defon­sively." Graves said. "We really concentrated on defensive boards, and then we hit our shots. E lt's really backbreaking when somebody can hit their foul shots." 
Graves, sophomore guard Matt Carroll and transfer power for­ward Ryan Humphrey all aver­age better than 14 points per game. Of course, it's easy to score when your team has scored more than 100 points twice and boasts the sixth­largest scoring margin in the nation. 
All five starters, including senior point guard Martin lngelsby, have demonstrated 

LISA VELTE/Tha Observer All-American Troy Murphy fires a 3-polnter at home. Under the guidance of head coach Mike Brey, the Irish are undefeated. 
their sweet touches behind the arc. No. 11 Notre Dame leads the country in 3-point shooting at 54.2 percent, thanks in large part to a school-record perfor­mance against Loyola Nov. 22. 
"We have a lot of shooters-on the team." Carroll said. "We usually have five guys on the court who can all shoot 3s." 
Ingelsby, who lost his starting position last year to the flamboy­ant but unpredictable Jimmy Dillon, had his talents ques-Honed in the preseason, but so far, there's no reason for con­cern. Ingels by is near the nation's top in assists with an average of more than eight per game, and near the bottom in turnovers with just three in three games. His efficiency han­dling the ball translates into an assist to turnover ratio of 8.3, second-best in Division I. To think about how good that mark is, Dillon ranked third in the conference last year with a 1.96 ratio. 
"We proved ourselves in one game." Carroll said. "We've still got a lot more games to prove ourselves in." 
The bench is one unproven entity for the Irish. 
Super sub Harold Swanagan got bumped from the starting lineup with the addition of Humphrey, but can ably fill in at the forward or center position. Besides Swanagan, however, none of the reserves have gotten significant playing time in the first few games. 
Pac-IO 
continued from page 28 
conference games that Oregon State chose to schedule. I'd call those three teams cup­cakes but that would be an insult to the pastry. Scheduling those three teams is just pathetic. If you want to be a real football school, you have to schedule real opponents. 
The Beavers don't have to stock their schedule with top 25 opponents. They just have to play opponents that at a very minimum might not be horrible this year. Rather than scheduling Eastern Washington, schedule Missouri. Missouri wasn't a good football team this year but at least the Tigers play in a real conference and had a chance to be good this-year. 
Scheduling 6-5 teams from the Big Sky conference does not help your bowl chances. It only pads your record with empty victories. 
The Pac-10 schedule is no better. The only good team the Beavers played all year was Washington. And the Huskies beat the Beavers 33-30. 
The rest of the Pac-10 teams on Oregon State's schedule were awful this year. USC was 5-7. Stanford was 5-6. Washington State was 4-7. California was 3-8. Arizona was 5-6. 
Oregon State only played four teams with winning records and only three of those teams will be going to bowls -not even the insight.com bowl will select a 6-5 team from the Big Sky conference like Eastern Washington. 
UCLA went 6-5 and is head­ed to the Sun Bowl. Washington is going to the Rose Sowl and Oregon fin­ished 9-2 and will most likely head to the Aloha Bowl. 
Oregon State's only quality win came against Oregon and Oregon is probably one of the softest 9-2 teams in the coun­try. They beat 5-6 Big West power Idaho and Nevada who finished 2-10 in non-confer­ence action but the Beavers also lost to Wisconsin. Although the Badgers are headed to the Sun Bowl this year, they are probably the most disappointing team in college football north of Alabama. 
Oregon went on to tag Washington with its only defeat but other than the Huskies, the Ducks didn't beat anyone. Oregon only beat two other bowl teams: 6-5 UCLA and 6-5 Arizona State. 
Not very impressive at all. 

. ...
But Mr. Hansen, a 10-1 record is still a 10-1 record so maybe Oregon State deserves the Fiesta Bowl bid. So let's cut a deal. 
Oregon State gets to go to the Fiesta Bowl this year, if you promise to decline your automatic bid for your confer­ence champion when your conference champion is horri­ble -like last year when Stanford went the to Rose Bowl with an 8-3 record. 
You don't think that is fair? 
Fine. Quit the BCS. The BCS is better off without fraud teams from the Pac-10. 
The views expressed in this are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Obsserver. 


M':\. 
·•·· jf• 
~ 1801 IRISH WAY-SOUTH BEND, IN 46637-(219) 272-1441 
1Jn 
1;1111• 

~ 
,M:\. ra':'iii

ti.n walking Distance to campu.s!l ~ 
~ 
....., l!li ~ 
~1)}_1•

LOOKING FOR A 
~ 
'.t:!!.~

fiH NEW ''VIEW'' NEXT FALL? ~ 
.M:\.

j\i~
·~ 
l)j}il ~ 
1iu CAMPUS VIEW OFFERS: 


~ ~
i1;it 
*Large,·spacious apartments 'IL~' 
~ 
'.l'!_1· *Limited Renovated Kitchens ~ 
!:IJ~-m__

*Swimming Pool, Tennis and Basketball Courts ~f\H *LOCATION! A short walk to a Grocery Store, Drug Store, 
,~ 


~ 
<~

it: Ii Restaurants, and CAMPUS! 
itt~r. 

a.\. *Affordable Pricing ~ 
j/1~ 
rlL~-~-! 

-
~ Filling Fast! Reservations now for Fall 2001 . Get them while they last! ,M:\.
iJ\11
. :-tj'J_u! 

page 24 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 30, 2000 
student union 
-HAPPENIN6§ 
WEEK OF NOi/EMBER i!7-DECEMBER 3 
Movies: What Lies Beneath. U-571. 
11/30. Thursday. 101 . 155. DeBartolo 1030PM. Tickets: $2. 
12/1. Friday. 101 . 155. DeBartolo 0800PM & 1030PM. 
12/2. Saturday. 101.155. DeBartolo 0800PM & 1030PM. 
Acousticafe. 

11/30. Thursday. Lafortune Huddle 0900PM-1200AM. 
ND Swimming Invitational. 

11/30. Thursday. 
"The Bronze Screen: 100 yrs of Latino Image in Hollywood Cinema". 
11 /30. Thursday. Theatre, McKenna Hall 0600PM. 
ND Swimming Invitational. 

12/1. Friday. 
First Friday. 

12/1. Friday. lntercultural Center LaFun 1200 -0130 PM. 
Voices of Faith Concert. 

12/1. Friday. Washington Hall 0700PM 
"The Comedy of Errors". 

12/1. Friday. Hesburgh Ctr for International Studies Aud. 0730PM 
"The Celebration". 

12/1. Friday. Snite 0730PM 
ND Collegium Musicum Performance. 
12/1. Friday. SMCollege 0800PM 
"Mifune". 

12/1. Friday. Snite 0930PM 
Carroll Christmas Tree Lighting. 
12/1. Friday. 
Dances: 

12/1. Friday. Farley, Sorin, Walsh, Siegfrieq, St. Ed's, O'Neill 
Madrigal dinner 

12/1-12/3 Regina North Lounge, SMC 0?00PM 0200 & 0700PM on Sunday medieval@nd.edu for tix 
ND Swimming Invitational. 

12/2. Saturday. 
Flipside Chicago Trip. 

12/2. Saturday. 1100AM -01 O0AM 
"The Comedy of Errors". 

12/2. Saturday. Hesburgh Ctr for International Studies Aud. 0730PM 
Asian Allure. 

12/2. Saturday. Washingtotl Hall 0730PM 
In-Hall Dances. 

12/2. Saturday. Dillon, Howard, Knott, Morrissey, PW, Stanford Stud Vegas, Carroll Christmas Formal 
Michigan City Outlet Mall Bus Trip. 
12/3. Sunday. Library Circle 0945AM-0500PM Tickets: $2. 
Spanish Mass 

12/3. Sunday. Stanford-Keenan Chapel 0130 PM 
ND Jazz Band: Dimensions in Jazz. 
12/3. Sunday. Band Building 0300PM 
Advent Lessons and Carols 
12/3. Sunday. Basilica 0700PM 
WEEK OF DECEMBER 4-10 
"Jaws" 

-
12/4. Monday. Snite 0?00PM Mens Basketball vs. Indiana. 12/5. Tuesday. JACC 0900PM "Children of Heaven". 12/5. Tuesday. Montgomery Theatre, LaFun 0900PM lnterrace. 12/6. Wednesday. csc 0530-0730PM Womens Basketball vs Villanova. 12/6. Wednesday. JACC 0700PM ND Chorale: Handel's Messiah. 12/6. Wednesday. Washington Hall 0800PM ACE goes Latin. 12/6. Wednesday. Lafortune Ballroom 0900PM Christmas Reception in the Main Building. 
, 

1217. Thursday. 0230-0S00PM Handbell Choir Concert. 12/7. Thursday. Main Building. 0300-0330PM ND Chorale: Handel's Messiah. 12/7. Thursday. Washington Hall 0800PM Acousticafe. 1217. Thursday. LaFortune Huddle 0900PM Movies: A Christmas Story; The Art of War 12/7. Thursday. DBRT 101 & 155 1030PM Tickets $2 

Thursday, November 30, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Doherty fails first big test at Carolina 
Knight hopes to 
. No 2. Spartans defeat No. 6 Tar Heels 7 7-64 in ACC/Big Ten Challenge 
Associated Press 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 

North Carolina faced a dilem­ma that will challenge Michigan State's opponents all season. 
Which of the Spartans do you try to stop? 
It's a diffi­cult ques­tion to answer as the Tar Heels found out. 
T h e Spartans


(No. 2 Doherty 
ESPN/USA 
Today; No. 3 AP) used a bal­anced attack to beat No. 6 North Carolina 77-64 Wednesday night in an ACC/Big Ten Challenge game. 
Jason Richardson led Michigan State (4-0) with 16 
points, while Andre Hutson had 14 points and nine rebounds and Charlie Bell added 15 points. 
Four others scored six or more points and a fifth player, Mike Chappell, made a key 3-·pointer midway through the second half. 
Before the season began, Bell thought this team would be bet­ter offensively than the one that won last season's national championship. 
Now he is sure of it. 
"Last year, if you stopped Pete, we could be in trouble," said Bell, referring to Morris Peterson, who is playing for the Toronto Raptors. "Now, we just have so many weapons. If you try lo stop one guy or one part of our game, you're going to be out of luck because so many guys can score." 
Five players scored the first five baskets and the balanced scoring didn't stop there. 
"We got a lot of play out of a lot of people," Michigan State coach Tom Izzo said. "We had moments where we looked real good and moments when we looked kind of sloppy." 
When North Carolina extended its zone defense, Michigan State scored inside. When it sagged its 
defense inside, the Spartans would find an open player on 
return to coaching
the perimeter, 
"It's tough to really focus in and say what you are going to 
Associated Press 

take away," North Carolina coach Matt Doherty said. "They INDIANAPOLIS
run so many sets. Against a 
Bob Knight says he hasn'tzone. most teams don't have as changed much since he wasmany zone offenses as they do fired by Indiana University.

man offenses. Coach Izzo must 
He does, however, miss

have about 50 set plays." 
c·oaching and would love to

Kris Lang prevented North 
return to the bench someday. 

Carolina (3-1) from being routed 
"That's what I've always

by scoring a career-high 22 
done," Knight said. "This ispoints on 11-for-16 shooting. 

the first time since the fall of

"Be really showed a lot, he 
1962 that I haven't had a bas­

was a man down there," 
ketball team. 

Doherty said. "I expect that. Kris 
"Coaching, teaching, is a

Lang is a good player who can 
daily challenge, and I miss

put up 20 points and 10 
that," Knight told Indianapolis rebounds every night." 

television station WISH in aMichigan State extended the report broadcast Wednesday.

nation's longest winning streak 
"I want to have an opportuni­

to 15 games and won its 32nd 
ty to do it, but I want to have

straight home game, second 
an opportunity to do it in the

only to Utah's 54 in a row at 
same kind of atmosphere thathome. 

existed at Indiana the first 23

The Spartans went on a 14-2 
or 24 years I was at Indiana."

run late in the first half and Knight described that
never relinquished the momen­
atmosphere as one where

tum. They led by 13 at halftime people understood and coop­and the Tar Heels were not able 
erated with one another.

to slice the deficit to less than Knight was fired in Septemberseven in the second half. 
after 29 years at JU for violat­ing a zero-tolerance policy established by the school. 
'Tm not going to get in all that, but the last five or six years has been a totally differ­ent atmosphere than I experi­enced through the first 24 years I was there," he said. 
Knight believes he can find that type of environment again, although he declined to say where he might go. He did say he wouId prefer to coach at a college again. 
"I don't think it's a tough fit to find a situation where peo­ple want good academics, they want good basketball, they want a situation with basketball where they know there aren't going to be any problems with the NCM," he said, 
Although Knight felt his fir­ing from Indiana hadn't changed him, he did say, "I think anytime you come through a critical situation, you're a little smarter, a little wiser." 
1LB. WEDNESDAYS 
'tJtJt o/2oioe of I !.B o(et!l!J IPJ~ t1h Ot /t!YJtti(J... 12 .99 

Eiy'o,J rlillil}f 01/t ill fl O!f Wfl.!I Wil/2Jt.110.!f Oho.9JO N!fle Jte!/Kr ill h!lJJ/e--1!-ee rlow11town fot1tl, BMdPtJIItlf// o/2!lit to fl te11t!et I/let a11 ed.tt1 l/2ioi /-/Jone ot wt tjl~l!l{'f, 12 oz. of(JfOA jltime 114w 'rot} 1111/ .r/egf. f(_"?/!let OflioM, loo. 
> QOU1" Bt;;NV'Q BIGOt;.Q"T PAR;TYc 222 S. MICHIGAN•SOUTH BEND•219.234.5200 
222 S MICHIGAN, SOUTH BEND 219-234-52 ..
$J COVER (WITH COLLEGE ID, MUST BE 21) ANP LOTS OF OTHER STUFF FOit A BUCK, TOO, 
-
CAil lHE HEARTLAND CONCERT &MNT IJNE 219,251.2568•MORE PICIURES@WWW.HEAlt'TI.ANDsourHIEND,COM 
l 
I 
I 
I 
j 
Make Illoney. Meet people. Join Observer Sports. 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 30, 2000 
throws and making seven assists and six blocked shots. 
Matha 
She holds the top two posi­tions in the MIAA Leaders list
continued from page 28 
for rebounds in a game, after said. "Athletics is amazing. It Marietta. In the first tourna­has opened so many doors. ment of the year tallying 18
.... 
And student government. against Johnson and Wales. because of the great people She is ranked third overall in I've met, I've learned they are scoring in the MlAA, with 84 there for me and they will get points in five games, averaging · me through anything. The 16.8 points per game. Matha sophomore board is wonderful. also holds third place in overall They make being class presi­field goal shooting. making 27 dent very easy." of 44 attempts. She is second in 
Still, Matha said that it is rebounds, averaging 11 per hard to leave game, and everything fourth in 
behind her "She very seldom blocked when she steps took a moment off shots, with 
on the court and 1. 2 per
while she played." 
has to concen­game. trate totally on " S h e the game. Jim Sarver wants to 
"It's hard to be the
Matha's high school coach 
completely con­centrate on one thing," Matha said. "I have a tough time clearing my mind totally before entering the gym. It is something J'm working on." 
Smith and Matha's high school coach, Jim Sarver, don't agree completely with Matha's assessment of herself. 
"She was a tenacious play­er," Sarver said. "She very sel­dom took a moment off while she played. She didn't do any­thing halfway." 
Under Sarver's direction at Dixon High School. in Matha's hometown of Dixon, Illinois, Matha was named Player of the Year in the Sauk Valley area, and was a member of the All­State Third Team in Illinois. 
"Kristen sometimes is her own worst critic," Sarver said. "I think it is something she's become more aware of. But the intensity she has about some things improves her skill on the court, which I've told her. She was player of the year in the area because of her ability to do things that other girls couldn't do." 
While Matha hasn't played under Smith for long -this is Smith's first year at the bench for the Belles -she also sees a different Matha. 
"Her decisive play and her hustle lead everybody by example and get us going," Smith said. "She gave 100 per­cent after she committed to basketball." 
Matha was MIAA Player of the Week this week, after scor­ing 63 points and tallying 31 rebounds in three games. During the Turkey Shoot clas­sic against Marietta, Matha tal­lied 23 points and 19 rebounds, connecting for 22 of 33 field goals, 19 of 27 free 
Jrisb ftibe 
www. iri shwea r. co.m 
-;·nn hats
11oves · 
laapit511ediaa

only at ..:..::.. ~ 
~~ 
· .aw,amcaa 
s ors

Campus C J .•v•-.--­
Call 259-1000 for more details 
best for every­thing," team co-

captain Anne Blair said. "I look up to her and I'm older than her. She is really positive and a hard worker. It's motivation for me. She makes me work hard­er." 
Matha has, above all else. set an example for the team. Last year, she struggled to adjust to the collegiate basketball scene. She was tied for eighth in the MIAA final standings for steals, aver­aging 1.7 per game, A far cry from the Matha of this year who is all over the charts. 
"There are two things that Matha h a s improved," senior co-captain Julie Norman said of her team­mate. 
"No. 1 is her confi­dence. Last year she was afraid to take shots. This year she has turned her play around. She has a great shot and she is a strong player who goes 100 percent all of the time. She muscles her way around out there, helping her to get points on the board. Matha is a leader by example." 
Both Norman and Blair agree on the second aspect of Matha's sudden resurgence as a player, 
"Her work has paid off from the summer," Blair said. "She's been conditioning." 
"Everybody stepped up their play, but you can tell that Matha worked really hard in the off-season," Norman said. "She's intense. Every game she comes and plays really hard. She has a strong desire to win and she plays with her heart." 
As a forward, Matha works closely with Blair on the court. 
'Tm the other post," Blair said. "It's exciting to work with [Matha]. I push her and she pushes me. It is nice to have that kind of teamwork on the court." 
Teamwork is the name of the game this year for the Belles, and it is always on Matha's mind. 
"We've always been the underdog," Matha said. "No one believes in us. No one believes in us but Saint Mary's. We arc going to prove a lot of people wrong this year." 

FOOTBALL 

Rogers will stay as offensive coordinator, passes on Rutgers 
Special to The Observer 

Notre Dame offensive coordinator and quarterback coach Kevin Rogers has withdrawn his name from consideration for the vacant head football coaching position at Rutgers University. 
Rogers met with Rutgers athletic director Bob Mulcahy following Notre Dame's Nov. 18 win at Rutgers. 
"I called Bob today and took my name out of the running," he said. 'Tm happy at Notre Dame, I think we've got some­thing great going and I'm really looking forward to the future." 
The 2000 season marked Rogers second with the Irish. In '99 his offense set single-season records for passing yards and pass completions. In 2000, the Irish ranked 14th nationally in rushing (213.5 yards per game) and 17th in passing efficiency. 
Freshman quarterback Matt Lovecchio shattered the Notre Dame season mark for interception avoidance, with only one interception in 125 attempts, and would have ranked seventh in passing efficiency individually had he played in enough games. 
Get the game plan for Indiana, straight from Mike Brev. 
¦¦ n.lU 
Tuesdav, December 5 
Pep RallV 1:30pmTip-Off 9pm 
Register at the game to win a 
• ' coca-Cola vending machine. 
, wear vour MOB I-shirts. MEIJER. You want to look good on ESPN. 


Thursday, November 30 The Observer . TODAY page27 
TYLER

TOM KEELEY 
THINGS COULD BE WORSE
FOURTH AND INCHES 
WHATELY 

BILL AMEND
Fox TROT 
Oo 1j01> 
WAl\'t -to reod ~c.1. -tht~t ? ~i1S

I WISH SHE'D NEVER
THANkS. coOLO YOU TRY 
DISC0\/E.RED THESE l • •
To &ET THE oTHER 
THIN&S CLEANED HER PoRES. \ .. 
SIDE TOMoRRoW? 
l 
•

0 Tc.! ,., 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------~-­
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Published Monday through Friday. The 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year ... 
THE OBSERVER 
Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint D Enclosed is $45 for one semesterMary's Community. 
Name 
---------------------------.... found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have 
Address -------------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
. • • • ; i fl 11111111111111111111111-JI ll.111111111 HUI II nu111 U.UII UUI HUI 11 UUI IIUI 11 H 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Stephen King 59 Beach shades Fund-raising novel setting 60 Hardly letter, e.g. 31 Minor invention management 
5 Librarian's 34 In this, a•.• is a types gadget "point" 61 Doers of good 10 Mr. Clean would 
38 Orlando-to­civic deeds Miami dir.
never part with one 39 Many an April DOWN baby
14 Interpret 1 Buttoned-up all 40 Admitting a draft the way 
15 In heaven 41 Con artist's 2 O'Brien's lead-in 
16 1968 award tor 3 Partakes of ....,_...,_____
accompliceVaclav Havel 42 Sun shade 

H In this, a·.• is a 4 Suitability
44 Analyze

"dot" 5 1973 Elton John 
47 Furnace waste -hit -. . t,,,,--t--+­20 Twin-engined 48 Cannes cap 
W.W. II plane 6 Watches for, 
49 TV's Andy

21 Swiftness perhaps
Taylor and Elroy 7 Wizard of Oz 22 Puts into service Lobo revealer23 Least salable, 53 In this, a"." is a 

8 1954 Oscar
perhaps "period" 
winner_
25 San_, Calif. 56 Comedy hit 
Marie Saint 28 Hideouts 57 Patterned fabric 
9 Inflamed 
29 Colorful 58 Actress Petty of 10 South Sea
computer "Point Break" 
souvenirs 11 Way too weighty ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Producers of sunbows 
Puzzle by Patrick Jordan13 Plague
AM AD 0 L D I E L U C K 
31 Kodak 44 "I Hated, Hated, 49 Bustle18 Deceit competitor Hated This 50 Hoodwink19 Jenna Elfman 32 Caspian Sea Movie" author 
TV role 51 Part of a river
adjoiner 45 City near Dayton 52 They may be 33 Shipping hazard 

registers 46 Part of the involved in a spill 24 Bank atmosphere 54 Map abbrs. 
35 Gauguin setting 25 Barbecued 36 Land of Tralee 47 Mantelpiece 55 Groundbreaker? 
en tree 37 Not just in the 26 Half of an old mind radio duo 41 Silvery food Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 27 Not do well in fishes are available by touch-tone phone: the stretch 42 Football's 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 28 Collar extension Karras et al. Annual subscriptions are available for the
T I K I E R O S E V E N T 
30 Mona Lisa 43 Electrologist's bast of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 E P E E D Y N E L E R S E attribute target years: 1-888-7•ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2000 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS budget.00O DAY: Billy Idol, Mandy Patinkin, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You Dick Clark, Ben Stiller, June Pointer, should get out and do things that David Mamet will bring you satisfaction and 
Happy Birthday: Pick out your enhance your reputation. Problems target and make a beeline toward involving children may throw you your goal. You can get ahead if you for a loop. Try to deal with these truly believe in what you are trying dilemmas calmly. 000 to accomplish. Although you will LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You have no trouble persevering, you won't have much patience with oth­may not be as fun-loving as usual. ers. Your inability to Jive with dishar­Make an effort to have some good mony may be the reason for your times with loved ones this year. Your decision to move on or make neces­numbers: 13, 26, 30, 34, 42, 47 sary changes in your life. 00 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You your domestic chores out of the way. have an excellent memory when it You will not be in the mood to deal comes to dealing with evasive peo­with the emotional drama that your ple. You can back opponents into a mate intends to dump on you. Try to comer, but expect opposition and be stay calm and refuse to be provoked. prepared to debate. 0000 00 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You 21): Sudden reversals of fortune will can have a great time and meet occur if you have been delving into romantic individuals if you get risky financial ventures. You may together with friends. You have been want to leave your credit cards at depressed, and it is time to turn home and keep your cash in the things around. Put on your favorite bank.000 outfit and get out. 00000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You Expect to have disagreements with may be too emotional about situa­your partner if financial abuse has tions at work Try to keep your nose left you in a tight spot. You may have out of other people's business. Your to limit another's spending habits, own job will be questionable if you which won't sit well. 00 don't focus on doing your best. 000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You Colleagues may cause a problem for will be hard to get along with today: you at work. Be careful not to let Your mood swings will drive every­them be privy to your personal one crazy. Try to keep your thoughts involvement or your thoughts about to yourself and refrain from telling co-workers. Gossip will backfire. everyone else how to run their life. 000 
00 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Clul­
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Double­dren will need your help today. check those bills that have been Don't hesitate to offer assistance at sitting on your desk. You may be in the school if your children are trouble if you haven't kept them up involved in an important project. to date. Make arrangements for You can get into shape if you work payments that won't break your out regularly. 0000 
Birthday Baby: You have an insatiable appetite when it comes to getting things done. You are eager to be involved in projects that will benefit others. You are always thinking of ways to make improvements. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 


-----------------------------------~------­

Rogers staying put 
Offensive coordinator passes up head coaching job at Rutgers to stay with Irish. 
page 26

PORTS 
Rogers 

.... OTHE 
page 28 BSERVER Thursday, Novermber 30, 2000 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
All-out effort earns recognition 
Matha dedicated to basketball, student government, academics in busy schedule 

By SARAH RYKOWSKJ 
Spurts Writ« 
... 
She's one of the most visible faces on Saint Mary's campus. On the basketball court. student government meetings, or in the classroom, Kristen Matha gives it her all. 
"Every time she steps out on the court, she goes all out," head basketball 
Despite the rest of the team's skill. Matha has become a driving force behind the Belles. But life wasn't always so rosy for Matha. After playing volley­ball and basketball her freshman year, Matha came into her second year at Saint Mary's unsure about her athletic future. 
"[ played three sports in high school and I was the president of my Key Club," Matha said. "In high school, you have the opportunity to be well-rounded. It 
coach Suzanne Smith "Everytime she steps helped me prepare for said. "You can see college but they are
out on the court, she
that after two min­two different worlds." utes. Ever since she goes all out." Matha, who was decided to commit to elected sophomore basketball I have seen class president at the
Suzanne Smith 
her give 100 percent end of her freshman to basketball. I don't elected not to
head basketball coach 
think she gives less to anything she does." 
This year on the basketball court Matha has made a difference in the Belles' play. After finishing a lackluster 1999 season with a 4-22 record, the basketball team is now 3-2 overall. Just two weeks into this season, the Belles are making their mark in the MIAA. with Matha leading the team. She was named the MVP at this past weekend's Turkey Shoot Classic. 
"They don't give the MVP to the best player on the losing team," Matha said. "It's got to be a team effort. It's not a reflection of me. It's a reflection of our team." 
year, 

come out for volleyball. 
And near the beginning of the basketball season. she wasn't even sure if she still wanted to play. But she eventually decided that she could do both student government and athletics justice and came out for the team a sec­ond year. 
"I made the right decision," Matha said with a smile. "That day was a reali­ty check -how much basketball meant to me." 
It makes one wonder how she bal­ances everything. "At times it's overwhelming," dhe 
see MATHAIpage 26 
Pac-10 threats are empty 
OK. bad news everybody: the Bowl Championship Series is in troublr.. All the controversy sur­rounding the selection process could mean that the BCS will not exist past 2006. 
No. I am 

not talking 
about 
Florida 
State being 
ranked 
higher than 
Miami-a 
team that 
beat the 
Seminoles 
in the regu­
lar seuson. 
I am talk­
ing about a 
much more 
pressing concern. The Pac-10 may not re-sign
.. 

the BCS contract after it expires in 2006. 
Yes, the Pac-10, the confer­ence that sent 8-3 Stanford to the Hose Bowl last year is upset with the BCS system. 
In a Los Angeles Times article Wednesday, Pac-10 commis­sioner Tom Hansen said that if Oregon State were not chosen for the Fiesta Bowl, he would consider withdrawing the Pac­10 from the BCS. 
"The Pac-10 may be better off going back to the Hose Bowl and forgetting the rest," Hansen said to the Los Angeles Times. "I wouldn't want to continually subject our teams to the antici­pation of being selected and fairly considered when it just doesn't happen.·• 
Hansen almost has a legiti­mate complaint this year. The Pac-10 has somehow managed to place three teams in the top 10 of the BCS. 

Washington is ranked fourth and headed to the Rose Bowl as the Pac-10 champion. Oregon State is ranked sixth at 10-1 while Oregon is 10th with a 9-2 record. 
Hansen is angry that Oregon State may not get a BCS bid despite being one of seven Div. 1-A teams with a 10-1 record. But look a little closer and you will see that Oregon State beat a couple of cupcakes. a few Twinkies and a cream puff this year. 
There are three reasons why Oregon State does not deserve a BCS bid this year: 6-5 Eastern Washington, 3-8 San Diego State and 5-7 New Mexico. 
Those were the three non-
see PAC-10/page 23 
MEN'S BASKETBALL Irish find consistency, balance under Brey 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Associate Sports Editor 

Notre Dame's swap of Mike Brey for Matt Doherty as the men's basketball coach traded steadiness for pizzazz. It looks like the team is following suit, going for consistency and bal­ance instead of star power through its first three games. 
Last year, the Irish (3-0) soared up and down along with their coach's emotional swings. All-American forward Troy Murphy was the one mainstay, but the rest of the lineup, while solid. was too inexperienced to bring its best game every night. 
The biggest shift in the of'f­season, besides hiring the calmer Brey as head coach, has been the supporting cast turning into veterans. 
"We're a year wiser and a year better," junior guard/small forward David Graves said after Saturday's 69-51 win over Cincinnati. "Everyone's really bought into what Coach Brey brought to the table. We've had input, too, and all the pressure situations we were in last year have paid off." 
Murphy, a 6-foot-11 player on every preseason All-
see \RISH/page 18 

Women's Swimming 
at Miami
vs. North Carolina Notre Dame Invitational Friday, 7 p.m.
College Cup semifinal 
SPORTS 

Thursday-Saturday 
Friday, 5 p.m. 
Volleyball
ATA 

Sf 
vs. CincinnatiMen's Swimming at Lake Superior Stare NCAA tournament 
Notre Dame Invitational Friday, 7;05 p.m. 
at Columbus, Ohio 
GLANCE 

Thursday-Saturday Sunday, 7 p.m. 









