
Paying the Rent 
Making lemonade out of lemons 
Scene preiiiews the tour ofRent coming 
A Sacred lleart priest tries to make light 
Monday
to the Morris Per.forming Arts Center in 

out ofthe recent SMC T-shirt controversy. 
South Bend this week. 
Viewpoint . page 13 
OCTOBER 2, 
section . page 14-15 
2000 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 30 


GETIIN' DOWN AND DIRTY 
Krough Hall hosted its annual Chariot Race on McG/in11 fields. For the first time, Saturday's acti-uities included mud wrestling. 
photos by 
LISA VELTE 

HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Oil supply may impact Gore, Bush 
By LIZ ZANONI 
New, Wricer 
With the Presidential election less than 40 days away, candidates George Bush and Vice President Al Gore are battling for votes as they dis­cuss issues ranging from health care to education. However, with See Also 
President Clinton's release of 30 million 
"Notre Dame gallons of oil from students react the nation's 
to released oil"
Strategic Petroleum Reserve last week, page4 the country's ener­gy supply has potential to leave both candidates politically vulnerable. 
For Vice President Gore. who requested the release of oil early last week in an attempt to drive down prices, Lhe question remains one of 
see OIL/page 4 


Knights of Colu01bus iIDpacts Notre Daine, dedicates statue 
students be able to attend lies," said Deitz. 

By NICK SWEEDO 
Notre Dame," says Jeff "We're always looking for 
News Writer 
Pethick, the assistant direc­new members," says Chris tor of Financial Aid. "The Martin, the publicity direc­The Notre Dame chapter support that the Knight of tor. "It's a great organiza­of the Knights of Columbus, Columbus has provided has tion to full111 your faith and the oldest and largest or the been wonderful." service." He added that councils in the United "I am very grateful for the members must be at least States. will celebrate its scholarship because it has 18 years old, male, and 90th anniversary this year. given me an opportunity to must be a practicing 
The Knights are a service­attend this prestigious uni­Catholic. oriented club whose pro­versity," says junior "The most important jects include the food share Rosalind Alexander, a recip­aspect of the Knights, in a 
program, where food from ient of the scholarship. practical sense. is its frater­the dining hall is taken to "Without it, I probably nal aspect," said Nathaniel homeless shelters. They are wouldn't be Hannan, also active in the Bovs and hen~." an advis­Girls Club program.' Their rather er to the
"/ am very grateful for 
main fundraiser is their Michael (jrand steak sales which take place l'vlcGivncy the /Knights ofColumbus} Knight, every football game in front founded the the club's
scholarship because 
of the Knights of Columbus Knights of leader.
it has given me an
building. The sales have Columbus in "They raised over $90,000 the last 1882 in opportunity to attend this are a two years, according to New llaven. g r c a t
prestigious University. ,, 
treasurer Jeremy /\lay. CT. It has group of 
Another way that the become an guys in Knights directly impact the internation-Rosalind Alexander the club, Notre Dame community is al organiza­junior w hi Ch through their scholarships. li on that makes which have been awarded t o d a y d o i n g to nine Notre Dame students includes over 1.5 million charity work that much eas­this year. The scholarships members. The Knights, ier." 
range in value from partial according to the group's This year. the chapter to full tuition. The Knights president Tom Deitz, were paid for a new statue of vir­donate the money to the created to defend the gin and child which it had Office of Financial Aid. and Catholic church and faith. dedicated to the victims of then the Office awards the "The original idea was abortion. The statue is money based on need. that men would come located next to the Basilica. 
"The scholarship has toge th er to mutually and will be formully dedi­made a significant differ­encourage their faith and cated at the 10 a.m. mass ence in helping Notre Dame protect each other's fami-on Sunday, Oct. 8. 


Monday, October 2, 2000
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 




Girls can cut it 
IL really shouldn't surprise me anymore, but 

things like this arc always a little unsettling. 
So, yes, I let it get to me. First as l agonized 

ovur verb conjugations and sentence structure on 
a morning French test. Then as I sat down to an 
otherwis,i pleasant dining hall lunch with fri,mds. 
The words I had heard earlier in the day were 
hard to shake. 
The day had begun in 

French class. In the minutes 
just prior to the start of class. 
three students and I had 
turned our attention from the 
test we'd bn taking shortly to 
more promising thoughts. 
"I ley, you work for The 

Observer, right?" a male 
classmate asked me, and I 
nodded yes. 
"What's up with the chick 

sports editor'' No offonse. but 
your sports department is 
horrible. Girl-; just don't 
know how to write sports," 
he informed me and two 
/cmale sttident'i. 
I immediately looked down at my watch. at the 

moment monitoring how long until the prolcssor 
walkt'd through the door and handed out the 
exams. But now that I think about it, perhaps I 
was also checking to make sure that I indeed was 
living in the year 2000, in a time and place where 
sentiments like my classmate's didn't quite 
belong. 
Next, I gmmd out the third-floor window orthe DeBartolo Ilall classroom. There was the football stadium; I was, to my dismay, certainly at Notre Dame. I was at a university where some of the world's supposedly "best and brightest" stand in the glorious shadow of the Golden Dome, infected with the simply ignorant belief that women ­even to this day-just can't hack it. 
Then my thoughts shifted to The Observer's sports editor, Kerry Smith, a flery red-haired equal mix of talent and hard work. 
I might have told my classmated that writing and editing copy for the Paper's best-read section in addition to running a sizeable staff is no small feat. I might also have told him that you don't rise to the helm of an award-winning sports depart­ment without knowing your stuff and excelling at what you do. 
Just like Kerry and two of her departmental colleagues -associate editor Kathleen O'Brien and assistant editor Katie McVoy -do. 
It didn't occur to me, though, to clue my class­mate in on just how tireless these three are in their journalistic endeavors, as both writers and editorial leaders. I walk into the Observer office at night and they're there, even on their nights off. I leave early sometime the next morning, and they're still there, always tightening, proofing and perfecting. 
And the fact that they are women shouldn't dis­count their efforts. If anything, in the face or such oppressive and stifling opinions as my classmate's, their gender should serve as a testa­ment to their skill and determination. 
lt would be comforting to believe that such views are in the minority, and I'd hazard a guess that they arc. But I suppose what's frightening is to ponder just how big that minority is -in class­rooms and dorm rooms and in conference rooms and board rooms. 
I wish it hadn't taken the sexist attitude ofa fel­low Domer to make me conscious of that fact. Let's just hope that !"our years at Notre Dame awakens him -and me -to the progress we've made through the years and what it takes to keep "chicks" in the newsroom and anyplace else they care to be in the future. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Graphics 
Laura Rompf Jose Cuellar 
Nace Phillips 
Production Sports 
Brian Kessler
Tim Casey 
Lab Tech
Viewpoint 
Lauren Beck Naomi Car.dell Scene Amanda Greco 

Tl,, Oh,erv<r (USl'S S'J'J 2-4000) is puhl,,hed Munday throllgh Friday c1'CC'fH Juring exam omJ vac..nilln JlCriod~. The Ob~cNt'."r is a mrmhe·r uf rhc A~iociartd l)re~,. /\JI reproduction right\ arc: r-c:s~rveJ. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS  
Monday  Tuesday  Wednesday  Thursday  
. Pride Week 2000: Kickoff  . Lecture: Father Malloy's  . Theatre "Good Night  . Pep Rally: Pride Weck  
Picnic on the Green. 5 p.m.,  Annual Address to Faculty  Desdemona {Good Morning  athlete recognition cere­ 
adjacent to dining hall  and Staff, 4:30 p.m. to 6:30  Juliet)," 2:30 p.m.,  monies, 6 p.m., Angela  
. Lecture: Morgan Stanley  p.m., I 01 DeBartolo Hall.  Washington Ila!!.  Athletic Facility  
Dean Witter Placement  . Oktoberfest Run/Walk:  . Meeting "Interfaith  . Event: "Acoustic Cafe." 9  
Presentation  Proceeds to benefit cancer  Christian Night Prayer," 10  p.m., LaFortune.  
7 p.m. to 9 p.m., McKenna  research, 4 p.m., Angela  p.m. to 11 p.m., Morrissey  . Movie: "High Fidelity,"  
Hall Auditorium.  Athletic Facility  Chapel.  10:30 p.m., Debartolo 155.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Undergrad TAs under fire at UC-Berkeley 
BEHKELEY, Calif. With all the time chemistry stu­dents spend obsessing over their midterms and lab projects, many  "We simply don't have enough graduate students for the job, and we need to  shadow a graduate student instruc­tor for a semester, and provide up to three letters of recommendation. Sophomore molecular and cell  
never stop to think about who is really overseeing them. As midterms approach, University  recruit the very best under­graduates. ,,  biology major Jessica IUsener says having undergraduate teaching assistants available in her courses  
of California at Berkeley students  has been a welcome changn.  
and faculty in the College of Chemistry remain divided over whether or not undergraduates  Clayton Heathcock dean, College of Chemistry  'Tve had plenty of courses led by graduate student T/\s," Hisener says. "But it's the courses with the under­ 
should be among those selected  as  graduate TAs in which I find myself  
teaching assistants for lower division  learning the absolute most."  
courses.  She says maximum learning is  
For Clayton Heathcock, dean of the college, taking on undergraduates fur the position is both beneficial and  Heathcock says. "We simply don't have enough graduate students for the job, and we need to recruit the  directly related to the motivation of the teaching assistants. "And there's no question whatso­ 
necessary for the department.  very best undergraduates."  ever  about motivation," Risener  
"Enrollment in the lower division 3A and 38 organic chemistry courses has reached an upper limit,"  · He explains that students selected must have completed the courses they will teach with an "A" average,  adds. "These undergraduates are volunteering for the positions. It is something they want to do."  

TEXAS A&M 
Officials suspend frat for hazing 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 
Sigma Nu fraternity is expected to file an appeal today in response to a two-year suspension due to alle­gations of hazing and alcohol abuse last year. On Sept. 22, the University Greek Judicial Board found the fra­ternity in violation of A&M student rules at 12 fraterni­ty events and ordered the A&M chapter of Sigma Nu on a two-year hiatus. Under the guidelines of the sus­pension, Sigma Nu is prohibited from using University facilities and participating in A&M activities. Courtney Reece, Sigma Nu commander and a senior geology major, said the fraternity plans to flle its appeal today. He said the fraternity plans to argue that its punish­ment was too harsh and possibly that the findings were inappropriate. "We are waiting on our appeal process," Reece said. "We feel that it was too harsh of a sentence." In addition to the sanctions against the fraternity, Kim Novak, coordinator of Student ConOict Resolution Services, said individual charges were filed against eight of the fraternity members. 
VIRGINIA TECH 
Vigil caBs for an end to intolerance 
BLACKSBUHG, Va. 

In the wake of violence, mourners gathered to remember the fallen and to pray for the future. Members of the gay community, the heterosexual com­munity, the administration, service organizations and representatives from religious groups came together to hold a candle light vigil in front or Alumni Hall. The vigil was in remembrance of Daniel Overstreet, 43, a homosexual who was murdered in Hoanoke because of his sexual orientation. "We want to show that we do have a voice on campus," said vigil organizer and speaker, Reggie Elam, programming chair or the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender Alliance of Virginia Tech and a sophomore art major. "We're try­ing to make people aware that this won't be tolerated." Elam said he hopes people attending the event will be able to spread the messages of tolerance and equality among the rest of the community. "If all else fails, I want this to be something people can take home with them," he said. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The AccuWeather«> forecast for noon, Monday, Oct. 2. 
AccuWeal!1er• forecast for daytime conditions and high te111penuures 
Tuesdl~ 
Wedn,sday 
4A .. Thurs~ay 
SO•

Friday) ....,,......,,, ...... .......... 
IQ 2000 AoeuWealh•r. Inc, COLO WARM :JTAflONARY
I 

Sat~iday,, /\~ @'""'co ...DD . 
High Low Showen Rain i-1tormc Flurries Snow lee Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
{:i• .,r--··•, .. ,./ "";.r' 
Allanta 74 62 Las Vegas 84 60 Portland 56 40 
Baltimore 74 47 Memphis 80 62 Sacramento 61 48
Q,~,~488¢:~d 
StiowBrs T•s/orm~ Rain Flume:s Snow lc,s ~unny Pr. Cloudy C/oudi 
Boston 70 49 Milwaukee 50 43 St Louis 71 58 
V1,1 Associ•tod Press Graph1c:sNol 
Chicago 68 48 New York 70 49 Tampa 88 68 HoustOil 83 67 Ph1ladelph1a 75 48 Wash DC 75 49 
Monday, October 2, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

LISA VEL TE/The Observer 

Keough hosted its annual Chariot Race on Saturday. Keough section 2A won the race which was part of a weekend full of events. The weekend began Friday night when Keough residents walked around campus in togas and concluded Saturday with a hall wide dance.
/-----------\ 

¢Color Copies 
single-sided on 8.5" x 11 '1 28 lb. paper. 
You'll be amazed by the quality. 
COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
On the Campus of the University of Notre Dame 
Call 631-COPY 
FREE Pick-Up & Delivery 
See store for details. Coupon required. Hurry -expires 10/6/00. 
\.N~v~d_:i1:__a:a:e:ff~:_d~':n~ 
~---------------------------=;:;::;___________ 

R 
10 
AD 
page 3 

Freshman council elects executive posts 
By JASON McFARLEY Assistant News Editor 
In a meeting Sunday night, members of the freshman class council determined leaders for 2000-2001 board. 
Freshman representatives elected Dan Maguire, Keri Oxley, Tai Romero and Jason King tu the council's four executive posts. 
Maguire, a Tampa native, will serve as class president. He said he knew he wanted to hold the position ever since he was elected Zahm Hall's freshman representative last week. 
'Tm going lo go in with my eyes open and my ears perked," Maguire said. 
"I under­stand that plans on making this year a spirited introduction to Notre Dame for her classmates. 
"I want to make it as fun as p·ossible. I hope it will be a mad blast," said Homcro. 
Romero, of Baton Rouge, La., is a Walsh Hall section leader. 
She said she wants to keep her class informed of an involved in various opportu­nities throughout the year. 
"There is going to be a lot going on, and I hope the class will show the same excite­ment in participating in these events as it does when it first­comes in [to the University]," Romero said. 
Jason King, elected class treasurer Sunday night, said 
he is excited 
about his 

there is a 'Tm going to go in with new posi­big respun­tion. 
my eyes open and
sibi litv on "It's a big 
my shoul­my ears perked." honor," said ders. and King, a there will native of
Dan Maguire
be a lot of Houston.
freshman class president
learning to "Being trea­
do in the beginning." 
Maguire said that he'd like to use his time in office to emphasize the importance of class unity. 
"That's my biggest goal," he said of the issue. "You see too much dorm pride around Notre Dame and not enough pride in us as a collective whole." 
Badin Hall's Keri Oxley said she also has plans in mind for the freshman class. Oxley, of Freemont, Ohio, was elected class vice president on Sunday. 
"From my past experience of serving, I've learned that the top priorities in achieving success are creativity, unity and spirit. I hope to imple­ment that into the Class of 2004," Oxley said. 
Oxley also hopes to be lis­tening to the concerns of her classmates throughout the year. 
"It's important to me to take the goals of the fresh­man class and make sure that they become a reality," Oxley said. 
Newly-elected class secre­tary Tai Romero said she 



TotJITE!! Monday at MIDtJITE! 
RADIOHEAD 
CD Ot\ly $11.'l'I!
KID A 
o•biil7~~ 
campus Shoppes -S.R. 23 -21'1.2.C/3.'l'l'I' 
Town & Country S.C. -McKinley Ave. -219.256.5898 Belleville S.C. -Western Ave. -219.289.1929 
orbitrecords.com orbitused.com 


surer is 
something I'll be good at. I feel like it's my place on campus," said the Morrissey Hall resident. 
King said he won't carry many ideas into office with him, but he intends to be active in class fundraising events. 
"I hope to pull in a lot of cash, use the money wisely and hopefully be able to put together a lot of activities," King said. 
In addition to the executive officers, council committee chairpersons were elected Sunday. Nick Williams will serve as social committee chair, Don Norton as fundraising chair, Jazmin Garcia as spiritual chair and Al Peetz as service committee chair. A publicity committee chair will be determined at the council's meeting next Sunday. 
The 27-member council, including officers,· committee chairs and committee mem­bers, will meet weekly throughout the year. The number reflects one repre­sentative from each of the University's residence halls. 
Hovv do youqualify for 
th~
Ear:n..ed 
Income Tax 
Credit? 

If you --work ha..-d bur. don"t earn a high hicOffle, you may qualify to pay leH tax, no t:a.,c 
or even get a refund. Yet ¦ orne people who ~e ellgiblr! for ErTC fa.tl to clairrr lt. 
Jf you h,a.re t'WO quillfying children .and .... arned under $30,580 on the job in t991;J, you m.-y be able to d.im '-'P to a. 13,e 16 c.-edlt. 
Wlt.h one qu.alifying child and earrunga: under $26.928. or no child and earning• le­than 1 10.200, 11rn:aIIer credits .-.re •v•ilablc. Actual unounu 
depi!!!nd on tot.al :i,ncoffl.c and other qualification•. c ... n 1-800-82"3-36"16 f'or our free ll\.S PubUc..,t1on 596, 
Eorn•d Income Cr.JU. 
JP.S Web •lt:e: www.m.gov 
flu• }1'/t,•1 n,1/ JJ:iAl'•·n 11<.; <\c,r 11 ' r 
\ If,,,-/, "'[I 1,, 1u,i ,,:-.-, '"' /1r:r 

page 4 The Ob:.-erver . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, October 2, 2000 
Oil 
continued from page I 
motivation. 
llepublicans have been quick Lo criticize the Clinton !\dministralion for inappropri­ately using the oil issue as a political ploy to bolster Gore's support before the election. Gore, in def,~nse of consumers paying high gasoline and heal­ing costs, argtws that the wlease of oil will stabilize prices l'or !\merica.ns before the ()!lset ol' the cold winwr months. 
Bush has stated that tapping the 570 million-barrnl petrole­um reserve, established in the early l Y70s after the first Arab oil embargo, could have detri­mental effects on national secu­rity. Hepublicans argue that the resPrve, which was created Cor military cnrnrgcncies. is now boing used inappropriately by the Clinton administration for managing price distributions. Many Democrats equate Bush and his Vice Presidential run­ning mate, Dick Cheney, with unrelenting oil companies. 
The nalion's energy has become a hot topic for politi­cians, ticonomists and cnviron­mentalists who arc 
"The truth is, Americans

concerned manipulation about thn haven't really felt the effects is risky 
because of

long-term ofthis yet. We saw a litte 
implica­volatile price
bit in the summer with the 

tions of' the fluctuations. $38 gallon higher gas prices. but very 0 t h e r 
price of few people are paying economists 
crude oil praise Gore's
heating bills now. " 

reached initiatives to last week. drive down However. Christina Wolbrecht oil prices for 
amongst Americans.
government professor

Americans who have adjusted to the inflated gas prices, there has not been an incredible amount of fear about Lim impending winter months. 
"The truth is. Americans haven't really felt the effects of this yet. We saw a little bit in the summer with higher gas prices, but very !'cw people are paying heating oil bills now," said Notre Dame Government professor. Christina Wolbrecht. "They (the Clinton Administration) are putting it on the agenda." 
Gore, who just last month was against releasing the nation's oil reserves. has lead many people to believe that making energy an issue in the election is some­what. if not very, political. 
The Clinton administration has also been criticized for indirectly 
giving support to the First Lady 
as she seeks a Senate scat in 
New York. where many people 
depend of heating oil in the win­
tor. 

··1 think there arc a lot of peo­ple who think that Bill Clinton in particular is very concerned with his wife's election and Al Gore's election because he secs them as kind of referendums on his legacy," sa.id Wolbrecht. 
Critics have argued that the oil release is a short-term solution to a larger problem in the more general market dynamics. Bush believes that it is the Clinton Administration's lack of energy policy for the last eight years that has contributed to the prob­lems the United· States is !'acing today. 
Many cxpl'fts sec the new energy issue linked to broader economic. environmental and foreign policy. 
Economically. many critics question whether dumping a larger supply of oil on the mar­ket will work to lower prices in the future. 
Prices are set on limited quan­tities of oil sold in spot markets and many view the Clinton Administration ·s decision as only a temporary solution. Some economists feel Lhat using oil reserves for price 
Gore uti­

lized a "swap" procedure in which com­panies receive reserve oil to sell at current prices on the condi­tion that the amount plus extra for the future will be returned to the reserve. The intent is to leave reserve amounts larger than before the release. 
Jennifer Warlick, an Economics professor at the University of Notre Dame points out that the release will. in fact, increase the amount of oil there­by decreasing the price. Although critics claim that this provides only a temporary solu­tion. Warlick was hesitant to believe that Gore's motivations were ultimately political. 
"We have designed our econo­my around low gas and oil prices," Warlick said. "Heating 
oil is a low elasticity of demand 
commodity. which means that as 
the price of oil rises, consumers 
can't immediately cut back on 
their consumption." Warlick 
said. 
"One, it (the high price of uil} 

is certainly not a national emer­
gency and two, it may have been 
economically wise," said Notre 
Dame Government professor, 
Dan Lindley, on the Clinton 
administralicin's moves to stabi­
lize oil prices. As or now, 
Lindley sees the decision as hav­
ing a, "legitimate market calm­
ing efTect" on lhe price of crude 
oil 
\Var lick remains concerned 

about the broader implications 
surrounding the oil shortage. 
Low-income families will feel the 
scarcity most. intensely and 
Warlick wonders what the 

government wili do to provide 
assistance to these families. 
"Without oil, people must allo­
cate their income and do with· 
out things which Americans con­
sider necessities," said Warlick. 
Warlick contends that the real question is whether the release of the oil is target efficient by helping Lhe people who will need assistance to pay the higher prices for heating oil during the winter. Also, Warlick suggests that the government increase subsidies to low income families for the coming winter. 
The energy issue has been set against the backdrop of the recent meeting on Wednesday of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) in Venezuela. OPEC is hesitant to increase production of crude oil to lower prices in industrial nations. Last Friday, however, Saudi Arabia promised to pump more crude oil to reduce prices. 
President Clinton has suggest­ed that a possible solution would be to encourage prices that are substantially below the nearly $40 a barrel level that crude oil soared to last week, but ,...-ell above the $12 level that made gasoline so cheap two years ago. 
Notre Drune students react to released oil 
By LIZ ZANONI 
News Writer 

While students hurry to secure absentee voter ballots f'rom their home states. presidential candidates Al Gore and George W. Hush are doing their best to address issues of importance to college students across the country. 
The most recent. controver­sy in the news last week commenced when lhe Clinton administration released 30 million gallons of oil from the Nation's Strategic Petroleum Heserve to stabilize the rising 
cost of heal­"Clinton's motives for 
tho prob­ing oil for doing it are political. lem from this winter. the begin­
The release is too
Bush has 
n i n g

criticized little and too late." 
"Peoplethis decision 
have short as an inap­
t .P r Ill propriate 
Sean Vinck 
memories
senior
way tu help 

Al Gore gain po!iLical support right before the election. 
"I think it's hard for stu­dents, let alone most Americans. to have a well­formulated opinion on the energy issue because it requires a knowledge of poli­tics, economics and history," said senior Notre Dame stu­dent Maggie Wood. 
Some Notre Dame students think that the Clinton Administration released oil reserves with the impending Presidential elections in mind. 
"Clinton's motives for doing it are political," said senior PLS and History -major. Scan Vinck. "The release is too little and too late," said Vinck who faults the Clinton administration for having an incoherent energy policy for tho last eight years. 
Vinck also believes that Clinton is hoping·that the dropping oil prices will be attributed to the Democrats when if fact it was the Democrats lack of' energy policy that created 
when it 
comes. to 
politics," Vinck said. 
"I don't know if the small amount or oil released by Clinton will meet the demands of heating oil for the oncoming winter months," said senior accounting major Meredith Hobbins. "I think a lot of people believe Clinton is just trying to dig himself' out of the whole he already creat­ed." 


IA. IP~~~@~/A.~ ~/A.[¥r~utr CC~ITIAAI~ ~~~%7~INIUIT@INI [Ml~~UIT~@ 
FOR NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S STUDENTS 
PRESENTED BY OMUS PROPERTY INVESTMENTS & THE SOUTH BEND POLICE DEPARTMENT 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2000 
LOCATION AT 600 BLOCK OF NORTH ST. PETER STREET SOUTH OF SOUTH BEND AVENIUE 
REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED STARTING AT 5:00 PM HAMBURGERS/ HOT DOGS/ CHIPS & SODA 
EETING W(LL START PROMPTLY AT 5:30 PM SEATING IS LIMITED 
.,REsE"'R've: vouR sEA:r 

ATION 
Monday, October 2, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Hurricane Keith hits Yucatan: 
Coastal residents of Mexico's Yucatan peninsula and northeastern Belize fled their homes Sunday as the dangerous core of Hurricane Keith brought strong wind and torrential rain. Scores of people in Chetumal. a bay-side city of 130,000. abandoned their homes, Many live in low-lying areas, in shacks made of wooden slal'i and cardboard, Mexican authorities evacuated 800 people from high-risk areas in the region. 
Crowds wait in tribute to Trudeau: 
Admirers of the late Pierre Trudeau stood in long lines Sunday to glimpse the former Canadian prime minister as his body lay in state in the parliament building. Since his death at age 80 on Thursday from prostate cancer and Parkinson's disease, the country has been wrapped up in remembering Trudeau's politi­cal legacy. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
L.A. Transit strike talks resume: 
Contract talks resumed Sunday in an effort to end a two-week-old transit strike that has left Los Angeles County without most bus and rail service. Only a few of the MTA's bus routes have been running since the strike began Sept. 
16. The MTA says it is forfeiting about $2 mil­lion per day in fares and tax receipts. 
NIH and Stanford halt MultipleSclerosis drug trials: Two trials testing a promising treatment for multiple sclerosis were halted after some patients showed a worsening of symptoms and others had allergic-type reac­tions, While the decision to end the trials was a setback for the specific therapy, researchers said they did learn more about the disease that will help them better target future efforts. Results of the trials, one organized by the National Institutes of Health and the other by Stanford University, were reported in the October issue of the journal Nature Medicine. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Authorities investigate triplehomicide: Members of a community church gathered over the weekend to grieve for the slain family of a former Indiana state -trooper whose wife and children were found shot to death. Authorities continue analyzing evidence in the murder of David Camm's family but have released few new details since Thursday evening, when Camm discovered the bodies of his wife, Kimberly, and their two children, Bradley, 7, and Jill, 5, in the family's garage. Members of the Georg_etown Community Church came together to console one another over the loss, 
Market Watch 9/29 

Dow 
10,650.92 -173.14

]ONES 
CompositeSame:
~-
Volume:L 54 44! 
I, 197,190,016 
AMEX: 954.31 +14.51 Nasdaq: 3672.82 -105.50 NYSE: 663.04 -4,71 

S&P 500: 1436.5 I -21,78 
• 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANYISECURJTI'  %CHANGE  $GAIN  PRICE  
APPLE COMl'lffER (AAPL)  -)1.&7  -11.75  2U5  
INTEL CORI' (JNTC)  -u.4ti  -2.Sl  41.~6  
DELL COMPUTER (DELL)  -7.&6  -2.63  30.81  
CISCO SYSTEMS (C5CO)  -7.05  -4.lti  55.25  
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFTi  _, ,£,4  -1.00  6!).31  

YUGOSLAVIA 

Milosevic's opposition mobilizes 
Associated Press 

BELGRADE 
Encouraged by cheering crowds, a convoy of 60 trucks blocked a key high­way Sunday as opposition forces sought to gather support for a nationwide strike aimed at showing Presid~nt Slobodan Milosevic he must relin­quish µower. 
The trucks -taking part in u "dress rehearsal" for a series of full-scale block­ades planned for Monday -were greeted by jubilant supporters as they passed through the opposition stronghold Cacak in central Yugoslavia. Some people tossed flowers as the trucks headed to an important highway linking Belgrade with southern Yugoslavia. 
The truckers brandished banners and posters of Vojislav Kostunica, whom the opposition and Western leaders insist trounced Milosevic in Sept. 24 elec­tions, Milosevic rejects the claim and says a run-off election is needed Oct. 8. 
Workers at two major coal mines did not wait for Monday and walked off the job Saturday. However, the independent Beta news agency reported that hun­dreds of special police entered one mine -Kolubara about 25 miles south of Belgrade -and turned back local towns­people who tried to march to the site in protest. 
The move was clearly aimed at keeping the mine open; it supplies coal to one of the country's major elec­tric power stations, The state-run power company warned strikers they were endangering public health and safety, About 1,000 workers in another coal settle for a run-olT and that a diamond," Ilic told the Protic acknowledged that it mine in Kostolac joined the is now the law for everyone crowd. "Kostunica is the would take time to build strikes Sunday. in this country," said elected president and we momentum among a public 
In the capital Belgrade, Velimir Ilic, the mayor of must persist in our resis­drained by years of conflict traffic was snarled by Cacak, an industrial town tance." He called for a total and economic misery. blockades at key intersec­of 80,000 people, Later blockade of the town Protic, the opposition tions. Drivers honked horns Sunday, about 10,000 Monday, candidate for Belgrade and pedestrians blew whis­opposition supporters gath­Opposition leader Milan mayor, said the protest tles and shook toy rattles -ered at the main town Protic urged people to leaders would try to esca­playing on a local expres­square for a seventh con­come out into the streets late the tempo systemati­sion for something broken secutive night of anti­Monday, stay away from cally "until Milosevic real­beyond repair. .'vfilosevic rallies there. their jobs and keep their izes that he is no longer 
"No way arc we going to "Our victory is as pure as children away from school. president. 

ISRAEL 

Palestinians, Israelis renew gun battles 
hours in a tinv Israeli enclave in the hurled grenades and shot from heli­
Associated Press 

West Bunk "town of Nablus, as copter gunships, Several Israeli tanks JERUSALEM Palestinian fire blocked rescue teams rumbled toward the Palestinian-run 
Palestinian gunmen, cheered by from reaching the area, Medics even­towns of Nablus and Ramallah in a rock-throwing rioters, fired on Israeli tually got through, but the officer died warning gesture, but did not cross the troops from rooftops and abandoned Sunday night. lines ofjurisdiction. buildings Sunday in clashes across the The latest fighting came as Israeli The deadliest battle was waged in 
West Bank and Gaza Strip. Nine and Palestinian peace negotiators Nablus over Joseph's Tomb, a tiny 
Palestinians were killed when Israelis traded harsh accusations instead of Israeli-controlled enclave. An Israeli returned fire, for a total of 29 in three new ideas on how to solve their dis­soldier shot from a lookout post, days of bloodshed over a contested putes. Palestinian gunmen raced up to the 
Jerusalem shrine. In an ominous sign of escalation wall and fired into the compound An Israeli border policeman was across the West Bank and Gaza Strip, where some Jews believe the biblical critically wounded and lay trapped for Israeli troops fired anti-tank missiles, patriarch Joseph is buried. 
page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Monday, Ocrober 2, 2000 
Research may help cancer fertility 
Assoda1ed Press 
WASJIINGTON 

Women having cancer therapy may one day be able to avoid the ovary da.mage that often lc,wcs them unable to bear children, researchers report. 
Scientists studying chemical and radiation damage to mice cells report promising results when lhn action of' the chemical ccramidc was blocked. But they caution that considerable work is needed before the method could be used in humans. 
Blocking ceramidc preserved the fertility of eggs normally destroyed in cancer treatment, researchers report in the October isstw of the journal Nalure Medicine. 
"This holds the promise of selectively prcservin)l'. ovarian function and preventing this tragic side effoct of the treat­ment of cancer," said Dr. llichard N. Kolesnick of Memorial Sl()an-Kettcring Cancer Center in New York. 
"!•or the first time we have a promising prospect for a small molecule that could be given to women and girls undergoing 
cancer treatment to protect their 
ovaries," added Jonathan Tilly of 
Massachusetts General Hospital, 
the paper's senior author. 
Tilly cautioned that tcsl-; have 
only been done in mice and that 
tests arc under way to deter­
mine the treatment's effect on 
human ovary tissue that has 
been transplanted in mice. 
"It's very dilTicult to put a time frame on," when the treatment could be available for humans, he said. "We will push ahead as quickly as we~ can." 
In an accompanying news arti­cle about the lindings, Hobert F. Casper and Andrt'a J. Juriscova of !.he Universi!.y of Toronto said the research was "an inn()vative and exciting potential new treat­ment to prevent oocyte destruc­tion after can cc r treatrn ent." Oocytc is the scientiflc term for the egg cells of mammals. 
While the paper focuses on ovary damage caused by radia­tion, Tilly said in a telephone interview that similar protection also occurred in tests involving doxorubicin, a chemotherapy drug. 
The researchers had earlier found that the death of the ovar­ian cells involved a series of chemicals, including ceramide. The conversion of a molecule in the body called sphingomyclin into ceramide by an enzyme sets off the death of several types of cells in response to chemothera­py or radiation therapy. 
So the scientists conducted tests to see if blocking the sphin­gomyelin pathway by using the compound sphingosine-1-phos­phate would protect the eggs in live animals. 
They injected S1 P into the sac surrounding one ovary in each of a group of normal mice and then exposed them to a dose of radiation that would be expected to destroy most of their eggs. 
Two weeks later the ovaries receiving Sl P appeared healthy while the unprotected ovaries showed almost complete destruction of eggs. 
"There was absolutely no damage at all that we could see." in the ovaries with S1P, Tilly said. "The ovaries looked normal ... the mice were cycling normally, they ovulated and were able to produce embryos. By all criteria they were nor­mal." 
=========-=--=--=--=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-======================================================= 
Cops kill IDan who stabbed three 
Associated Pres• 
VENTURA, Calif. 

A man stabbed three staff members in a hospi­tal waiting room, then was shot and killed by police. authorities said Sunday. 
Tho victims' wounds were not life-threatening. 

The attack happened at Community Memorial Hospital late Saturday, when the man "jumped one of the staff, started hitting him. and took out a knife and started stabbing him," said police Lt. Carl Handy. 
Two staff members who tried to intervene also were stabbed. 

Officers first tried to subdue the man by firing a non-lethal beanbag round, but that failed, Handy said. 
"When he came at the officers with a knife, he was shot one time and he died about two hours later," he said. 
The motive for the attack was not known, Handy said. He said police had had previous contact with the man but he would not give details. The hospital referred questions on the wound­ed workers to Handy, who said they were "doing 
fine." 



Ironwood Family DentiBlry 
271-7500
/ 
RUSSELL A MURPHY. DDS 

1639 NORTH f RONWOOD DRIVE SUITE 109 SOUTH BENO. IN 46635 


10% COLLEGE STUDENT DISCOUNT 
UN'l~I\SITY OF N'.OTU DA..-..U. INTERNATIONAL STUD\' PROGRA.'tlfS lOl S.Cuncy Bu.Udlnt Noin 0.ma. ladboa -16556 
Ti '31-!SIJ 
,au 6Jl-5111 


INNSBRUCK 
INFORivL4TION MEETING 
With Professor Hannelore Weber Student Returnees 
·wednesday October 4, 2000 318 DeBartolo 4:15 PM 

Application De:idline: December 1 
.-\ppiications Available www/nd.edu/~intlstud 
Pope canonizes first saints frolll China 
Associaced Press 

VATICAN CITY 
Pope John Paul II declared 
sainthood Sunday for 120 
Chinese and foreign missionar­
ies killed in the church's five-
century ­
and ongo­
ing 
struggle in 
Chin a. 
Stung, 
Beijing 
called the 
martyrs 
"evildoing 
sinners 
and their 

canonization "an open insult." 
Naming or the church's first Chinese saints threatened to worsen already stiff relations with China, which at home is combatting Vatican-allied Homan Catholicism and other banned spiritual movements it sees as challenges to its authority_ 
The date of the canoniza­tions was enraging to China ­falling on China's National Day celebrating 51 years of com­munist rule. So was their cho­sen subject: 87 Chinese and 33 foreigners, most killed in what China still views as the right­eous 1900 Boxer Rebellion against foreign imperialism and religions. 
John Paul, looking wan and tired on a rainy morning in St. Peter's Square, insisted "the celebration is not the time to make judgments." 
"The church only intends to recognize that those martyrs are an example of courage and coherence for all of us. and give honor to the noble 

Chinese people," the pope 
said. 
John Paul named three other 
new saints as well. all nuns: 
one-time socialite Katharine 
Drexel, who devoted her lifo 
and inheritance to founding 
schools for American Indians 
and blacks; one-time Sudanese 
slave Guiscppine 13ahkita, and 
Maria Josefa del Corazon de 
Jesus Sancho de Guerra, the 
first saint or Spain's trouble 
Basque people. 
The solid bank of' rain-slick umbrellas in the sq uaro cov­ered tens of' thousands, includ­ing ethnic Chinese from Taiwan, Ilong Kong and else­where. 
If any Catholics rrom main­
land China dared attend. they 
kept it a secret. 
China's Communist leaders ordered Catholics to renounce loyalty to the popn in the 1950s. Beligious and human rights groups regularly report arrests ol' clergy who attempt to worship outside the statc­mon itored official Catholic church. 
'Today is National Day. and more than ever Chinese Catholics should stand with the nation," Bishop Fu Tioshan, the state-appointed bishop in Beijing, told worship­pers Sunday morning at the Chinese capital's South Cathedral. 
"Choosing this date lo can­onize the so-called 'saints' is an open insult and humiliation against the Chinese Catholic adherents," Fu was quoted as saying by the official Xinhua News Agency. 
China's Foreign Ministry denounced the newly canon­ized as "evildoing sinners." 

Oktoberfest Starts With Internship Week! 

October 2 

PUBLISHING, JOURNALISM, AND MEDIA A presentation by the Career Center's Director, Lee Svete, will highlight internships in publishing, journalism, and media. Dont miss this opportunity! 
October 3 

GOVERNMENT, PUBLIC POLICY, "THINK TANKS", AND LEGAL This presentation will focus on a wide array of government related internships. Join Career Counselor Anita Rees and the Government Department's Carolina Arroyo for alively session. 
October4 

THE ARTS, EDUCATION, AND INTERNATIONAL Join Career Resource Coordinator Allison Hagan and The College of Arts & Letters' Jennifer Nemecek for an overview of these interesting and often overlooked internship opportunities. 
October 5 

ADVERTISING, CONSULT1NG, RETAIL, MARKET1NG, AND SALES "People" Person? Team Player? Opinionated? Problem Solver? Organizer? Creative? Artistic? Whatever your personality or background, join Career Counselor Robin Sullivan to explore internship opportunities in the business arena. 
Celebrate Internship Opportunities With A Week's Worth Of Informational Events! 
All of the sessions will be held in: 
The Career Resource Center 
114 Flanner Hall 
6:00 to 7:00 PM 


Monday, October 2, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Colleges, universities split on blocking Napster use 
into that," he said. company says 28 million people said Tom Edgar, associate vice 
Other schools -among them have downloaded the software -president for academic comput­Michigan, Stanford, Princeton are violating no law. It bases its ing at Texas. But he acknowl­and Duke -responded in like defense on the Audio Home edges that numerous Napster­manner to the request from Recording Act of 1992, which it like services can supply the same Iloward King, a Los Angeles says grants files, so blocking lawyer who reprnsents Metallica immunity Napstcr won't and Dr. Dre. when music stop online
"/ think the overwhelming 
"I think the overwhelming is shared for music-swap• majority of universities are react­noncom­majority ofuniversities ping. ing the same way we have. Most mercial use. At some uni­
are reacting the same 
are not blocking Napster," said Higher versities, offi­
way we have. Most are
Mike Smith, assistant chancellor education is cials are taking for legal affairs at the University involved not blocking Napster." enforcement of California in Berkeley. because stu­one step further. 
Mctallica, Dr, Dre and the dents have 
Mike Smith O k I a h o m a 
Recording Industry Association of been among State campus America (RIAA) have sued Napster's University of California at Berkeley police confiscat-Napster, claiming its file-sharing most ardent ed a student's software allows people Lo steal patrons and computer last music. Three universities -Yale. defenders. month over allegations by the Indiana and Southern California Georgia Tech students say RIAA that it was used to distrib­-also were sued but later they're pleased with their ute copyright material. Penn drapped after they agreed to school's decision. State officials are questioning block access to Napster. "Why should Georgia Tech be a students and faculty whose com­
U.S. Oistrict Judge Marilyn Hall filter?" asked Darren, an aero­puters show heavy file-transfer Patrl in San Frandsco granted a space engineering major from traflic. preliminary injunction against New York City, who wouldn't give Other schools have blocked Napster in July, ruling that his surname for !ear he would be Napster on the grounds that it is Napster named in a a tool for breaking the law. encouraged copyright Among them is Northeastern widespread "We are an educational infringement University in Boston, where for­copyright complaint. mer student Shawn Fanning
institution and we will err 
infringement. Two of the wrote Napster's technical under­
on the side ofunfettered
The 9th U.S. nation's pinnings in his dorm room two Circuit Court access to information. " largest uni­years ago. of Appeals versities -Canisius College, a private lib­stayed her Texas and eral arts college in Buffalo, N.Y.,
Bob Harty

order hours Ohio State -has blocked Napster on ethical 
before it was Georgia Institute of Technology block Napster grounds. to take effect. access but "It's not free for you to steal On Monday, only because books from the public library, that court is to hear arguments they are concerned about their and it's not free to download on whether to continue the stay campus-wide networks getting music you haven't paid for," said pending a trial -thus allowing clogged with swapped music. Jerry Neuner, Canisius' associate -~apster to live on. "Twenty percent of the total vice president for academic Napster contends that the mil­university bandwidth was going affairs and president of the lions of Americans who use its toward something that we were American Association of service -the San Mateo, Calif., pretty sure was Napster use," University Administrators. 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 

As ~apstcr's battlo for survival resumes in a federal court, col­leges and universities nationwide aro issuing verdicts of' their own on whether students will have access to the Internet music­swapping service. 
On many campuses, Napster has already won. "We are an educational instiLu­

5-Day Immersion into Border Culture January 4-10, 2001 
Emphasis on: 
-participation in dimensions of the immigrant experience 
-examination ofsocial, 
cultural, and international 
forces on the border 
-discussion, reflection, and faith sharing 

tion and we will err on the side or unfettered access to informa­tion," said Bob Harty, a spokesman for the Georgia Institute of Technology, which last week denied a lawyer's request on behalf of two musir, acts to block access to Napster. 
"Once you start down that road ... well, we could tie up an awful lot of stalT people and resources trying to evaluate Web sites' con­tent, and we don't want to get 
El Paso/ 
Juarez 
Seminar 2000-2001 


Applications Available at the Center for Social Concerns Due October 24
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
HABITAT FOR HUMANITY 



+ 
-­
You 

Annual Fall Break BLITZ BUILD 
. October 16th through 20th 
. 
Join a group of 25 Notre Dame students and alumni 

. 
Construction on this year's Habitat house 

. 
Come to share both spiritual and social experiences 



Great opportunity to give ofyourself, meet new people, and have fun!! 
For more information contact Habitat@}nd.edu as soon as possible. 


page 8 The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, October 2, 2000 
r 
. . ·.-.-.-,-.-. ·.·..... ,. '' ., ... , ... 
. . ~-,,. 

lnterviE!ws willbe' held•o~i;fijiY-;i~Ji~iJ~i.£:i~&t) ;· >·· 
.... -' ' ·-·,·,,. '' ·-·····--, ,•. ' _. . 
We welcome those i0tE!re~~~~ipplyjJi!~~ii~;~~:Ji~i~:~61ij;py;;•/· 
Thursday,. October. 5, iooo.. :J :. <. .. .. .. . ... . . ... ·.. . . . 

Are Y()9c12P~it?~f9r)J~jfi~lfd.~~~t2J1illill';tj~j\i,litB~if.ti'i~~iB9i/ijPY()u
~}3l~~lr2iifi~1Rfiil''iiatllr!IJrlijl~t[~?1~j,;;iJt ::e~~=ac~~,;~,rttfu;;dlitt~:fifliitllllll!IIJ1iii11tr;: •·<. 
•··· Global·careers in 
•··s fr.. investrnentbanking 
· 
·.>.. •.· · ·. ·:;_: ···:-_ ·-::::>ti:···:·:::-::)<:>=::r<.:::_·_-.::;::: :. . ._ . .-.. ­
·. •...·•··•·.·



-·----·------------------.. ----------­
Monday, October 2, 2000 The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 page 9 
Candidates denounce Commission debate, stage minidebate 
Associaied Press 
WASHINGTON 

Ralph Nader and Pat Buchanan staged a minidebate of their own Sunday and groused about being shut out of Tuesday's faceoff between George W. Bush and Al Gore. 
"What are they afraid of?" asked Buchanan. the Reform Party nominee. Green Party candidate Nader said he'll be in Boston for the Bush-Gore event and joked: "Maybe I'll crawl up on the stage there." 
The bipartisan Commission on Presidential Debates, orga­nizer of three 90-minute debates this month between 
COME TO AN INFORMATION SESSION TUESDAY, OCTOBER 3 • 6:00PNI Center for Social Concerns 
Take the 

URBAN PLUNOt...~­


.J,.,v, 
~ 
~-Ill-. 
..,~ tf"'~i 
~3g_~_:-~~-~~~_;;.-;__=~=-fil~;.½.!.t:.:.:rtf_\~~.J-~~:::::!!:~~====:::-'-.:":=="=:!::!::=:::=--­
----· 

the Hcpublican Bush and Democrat Gore, said last week that Buchanan and Nader had failed to meet its criteria for participa­t i O 11 Tuesday. Candi­d ates' names must appear on e n o u g h state ballots to have a 

Nader

chance of winning a majority of Electoral College votes. and they must average 15 percent support in five major national polls. For weeks, Nader and Buchanan 
have been at 3 percent or below in the polls, while Gore and Bush have been at 40 per­cent or above. 

As an alternative, Nader and Buchanan appeared on N BC's "Meet the Press," where they vehemently
Buchanan 
challenged 

the com­mission decision. They also were appearing together Monday night on CNN's "Larry King Live." 
Gore and Bush, meanwhile, 
Toe Urban Plunge is a 48-honr immersion experience into urban commu~ties throug?out the country. Students meet local individuals. work with agencies, volunteer for panshes al!d witness the daily environment of urban areas in the United States. 
Nearly fifty (50!) US cities offering the plunge dnring !he week of January 4-1 I, 2001. If you live near a city -YOU can take the plunge. . . 
Registtation forms and answers to your questions will be available at the info session. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Summer Engineering Program Foreign Study in London, England 
INFORMATION MEETING: Wednesday, October 4, 2000 Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
7:00 p.m. 
continued their debate prep. networks have allowed them Gore took part in a mock to have a monopoly." debate at the Mote Marine At a rally Sunday featuring Laboratory, a shark research Nader and his supporters, center. in Sarasota, Fla., filmmaker Michael Moore crit­where he went Saturday. icized the Green Party candi­Bush, who remained at his date's exclusion from ranch outside Waco, Texas, Tuesday's debate. Moore said went for a walk, chopped Nader has 5 percent of the cedar and read briefing mate­vote in one national poll -a rials. He planned to campaign number that would equal the Monday in West Virginia combined population of 14 before heading to Boston. U.S. states. 
In a conference call with "Can you imagine telling 14 reporters Sunday, Bush cam­states their desires don't mat­paign aides touted a poll ter? You'd have a revolt on showing him tied with Gore in your hands," Moore said. the vice president's home state Buchanan, whose Reform of Tennessee. Party participated in the 1992 
"No matter how you cut it, debates because of the early that's good news for Governor popularity of party founder 
Hoss Perot's ideas, said the Fleischer said. ''The vice recognized parties are president is struggling to Republican, Democratic and 
even  be  in  Reform.  
the  race  in  Buchanan  
places where he should have sewn up along time  "The other two parties are engaged in a conspiracy basically to deny me  received $12.6 mil­lion in fed­eral cam­ 
ago." The Mason­Dixon Polling Research poll  access to the debate that:,; going to decide the election and the presidency ... "  paign funds this year based on Perot's 8  
taken  last  percent  
week for The Tennessean of Nashville  Pat Buchanan Refonn Party candidate  showing in the 1996 election.  

and the Chattanooga Times/Chattanooga Free Press showed the candi­dates technically tied, with Bush at 46 percent to Gore's 43 percent. The sur­vey carried a margin of error of 4 percentage points. 
Bush also submitted a videotaped opening state­ment for Web White and Blue 2000's "Rolling Cyber Debate," which will run through Election Day at www.webwhiteblue.org, his campaign said. 
The vice presidential can­did ates, Joseph Lieberman and Dick Cheney, also spent Sunday off the campaign trail in preparation for their only debate Thursday night in Danville, Ky. 
Nader said the debate commission's decision means Republicans and Democrats "have a monop­oly on the debate, and the 
" T h e 
other two parties are engaged in a con­spiracy basically to deny me access to the debate that's going to decide the election and the presidency ... , and the American people are being denied ... the right to see and hear a candidate they're pay­ing for," Buchanan said. "That's the injustice." 
"The idea that these two parties have some automatic lock on the White House ... is false," he said. "What are those parties afraid of if they won't let Ralph and me in the debate argue our point of view?" 
Most Americans support his conservative ideas on foreign affairs, trade, the military and the Supreme Court, Buchanan averred. But "even if they don't, we at least should be able to hear those arguments. You're not going to be able to hear them Tuesday night," he said. 


IeCrnlegefoofoall.com1 
!The Marketplace1 
Houses for Rent 1 BR HOMES 1210 Cedar St. $390/Mth 2 BR HOMES 1337 Fremont $550 /Mth 529 Chicago $550/Mth 1 BR APTS -MISHWAKA 314 Wells -Sl0O/Wk 1-800-328-7368 A Division of C.1lver Development 
----------------------------------------. Bush," spokesman Ari 
-----------~­

BAIN & COMPANY 
springboard t 0 opportunity 
I Bain & Company cordially 
t 
::f. 

;; invites all upperclassmen to
!

I join us for our Fall 
! -$ ~ Presentation followed by a 
:t: 

; Case Interview Workshop on 
:t ~ Wednesday, October 4th,
:; 

!from 7:00 -9:00pm at the 
·~ ~ -~ CCE, Auditorium 
We remind you to send your 
resume, cover letter, unofficial '.i transcript and SAT scores to us ; through Career Services by ·; October 18th, 2000 
To learn more about Bain & Company ~ please visit our website at www.bain.com 
Atlanta• Beijing• Boston• Brussels/Amsterdam• Chicago• Dallas• Hong Kong• Johannesburg• London• Los Angeles• Madrid• Mexico City Milan • Munich • New York• Paris • Rome • San Francisco • Sao Paulo • Seoul • Singapore • Stockholm • Sydney • Tokyo • Toronto • Zurich 

I Monday, October 2, 2000 
Abortion protestors support Catholic priest's 01otivation 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
~ 
' 
,'.:'.',· 

Associated Press 
HOCKFOlW, IH. 

Dozens of anti-abortion pro­tcs Lc rs at an annual rally Sunday said they support the devotion -if not the alleged actions -of a Catholic priest accused of crashing into an abortion clinic here and chop­ping away at the building with an ax. 
"I don'l agree with his meth­ods, but I appreciate his hean." said the llcv. David Broom. 25. lie carried a sign 


:tv1:erchar.i.t Bari.k.i:n.g Fi:n.a1..~cial ...l~.n.alyst CJppe>rtt..:u:iities '-'Vithin. the I4ev-era.gecl B1.iyc)l....-it an.cl Priv-a.te Eq1-:i.ity Ce>rri:r1_-:i_u.r:1it:ies 
I:>eBa.rtc:>1e> :E-:1:a.ll 
R.oo?n' 208 CJnz'verszry efI',.Torre I:>cz.?:ne 
~c:ce>b~.r 4, .2000 
6--00 -8.:00.P-m. 
11' "ll' 1,1· • i /'7 cl OS l.l e .Z C Cl p i I' Cl /. C' 0 ,.,~ Ez.~.si~e.ss Ccz..suczl ArrZre 
that said "Adoption: The lov­ing option" and joined a human chain of about 1,000 protesters outside a Catholic church forming the shape of a cross. 
The rally had been sched­uled long before Saturday's attack. Amid the singing, peo­ple could be heard along the chain talking about the H.ev. John Earl. who is charged with burglary and l'clony crim­inal damage to property for tbe aLtac.;k Saturday morning at the Northern Illinois Women's Center. Ile was freed 
Ir-:i.cle>s'l..2ez C::a.pi.ta.1 
co-,·c-lza/fy .invz".;(es_yo.1<.1 zv a p:resen/!'a.1:z'on dzscr,1.,si'ng 
"J don't agree with 
his methods, but I 

appreciate his heart. " 
David Broom reverend 

after posting $10,000 bond. 
Earl, 32, was stopped inside the building by its owner. who fired two shotgun blasts to scare him away. The clinic wasn't open and there were no injuries. 
"It's hard to support those kinds of actions when you stand for life, but we definite­ly do support him in standing up for life," Jeff O'Hara, 37, said at Sunday's rally. 
Police have not disclosed a possible motive for the attack on the clinic. It came two days after government approval of the RU-486 abortion pill and was at the office of Dr. Richard Ragsdale, who suc­cessfully challenged Illinois abortion laws in the 1980s that he claimed were so strict thev limited women's access to 
the procerlure. 
The Diocese of Rockford said the priest's activities have been restricted while it inves­tigates the allegations. A mes­sage left at the church. St. Patrick's Church in Rochelle, about 30 miles south of' Rockford, was not returned. 
At the church's evening Mass on Saturday. the Rev. Aaron Brodeski discouraged parishioners from gossiping 
among themselves  or  with  
media.  
"Father John has  a  lot of'  

young ideas and a lot or old ideas from 40 to 50 years ago," said church member Joe Ryan. "You might believe in why he did what he did, but do you want him teaching your kids to do that?" 
Gay Bruhn, president of Illinois chapter of the National Organization for Women, said Sunday that the church and anyone who supports individu­als associated with acts of vio­lence are hypocritical. 
"It's a complete denial of responsibility by those in the movement that encourage people to go out and do this stuff," Bruhn said. "We've had some victories and some loss­es, but we've never driven a car into a building. I'm appalled by the violence." 
A local restaurant owner who started a legal defense fund to assist Earl said that although he sympathizes with the priest. he wishes he would have adhered to nonviolent protest. 
"It is a war," said restaurant owner Frank Giammarese. "It is a war on our culture and our humanity." 

THE BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 
Amsterdam  Dusseldorf  Mexico City  Shanghai  
Atlanta  Frankfurt  Milan  Singapore  
Auckland  Hamburg  Monterrey  Stockholm  
Bangkok  Helsinki  Moscow  Stuttgart  
Boston  Hong Kong  Mumbai  Sydney  
Berlin  Jakarta  Munich  Tokyo  
Brussels  Kuala Lumpur  New York  Toronto  
Budapest  Lisbon  Oslo  Vienna  
Buenos Aires  London  Paris  Warsaw  
Chicago  Los Angeles  San Francisco  Washington  
Copenhagen  Madrid  Sao Paulo  Zurich  
Dallas  Melbourne  Seoul  

We are pleased to announce the following undergraduate and master's event (non-MBA): 
INFORMATION SESSION 
Tuesday, October 3 Greenfields 
Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
6:30 p.m. 

Resume drop dates (Go Irish System): Start: Friday, September 15 End: Wednesday, October 11 
www.bcg.com 

VIEWPOINT 
O
TH£ page 12 BSERVER Monday, October 2, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. llvx Q. Nom Dame. IN 46556 Ol4 Sou1h Dining 1--lall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lam: 
AssT, MANAGING EDITOR OrERATI0NS MANAGER Christine Kra.ly Brian Kessler 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Matringly V!F.WPOJN"r EDITOR: Lila Haughey Srotns EDITOR, Kerry Srnitb SCENE EDITOII; Amanda Greco SAINT MARY's EDITOR, Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Eli1.abeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER1 !'ar Peters AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSffMS IWM/NISTRAWII: Mike Gunville Wr.e AOMINISTlvl.TOR, Adam Turner CONTIIOL.UR: Bob Woods GRAP!IICS EDITOR, Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us OmcF MANAGt:Jt/GENt:IIAt INHJ..............631-7471 FAX............................................................631-6927 AllVERTISING...... . . . . . . .................63 J-6900/8840 
obsuver@datwin.cc.nd.~du EDITOR IN CHIEF......................................631-4542 MANAGING EmrnRiAssT. ME ...... ............631-4541 BUSINESS OfFICE........................................631-5313 Ni:.'WS..........................................................631-5323 
obserwr.obsncws. I@nd.edu 
Vll-WPOINT.................................................631-5303 obscrver.vi.:wpoim. l@nd.edu SroRTs........................................................631-4543 observer.sporcs. J@nd.edu 
SCENE........................................................631-4540 
observer .scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARv'S. .........................................631-4324 obs,;rver.smc. J@nd.edu 
PHOTO............ ······· .. ··· ....................... .........631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http://obst'Tller.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sport5, features and opinion columns, as wdl as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/mwic for
weather for up-to-the 
weekly slllden t reviews
minute forec.isr; 
advertise for policies 
onlinc features for spe­
cial campus coverdge
and rates ofprint ads 
archives 10 search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
co meet the editors and 
Augus1 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by 1he srndencs of the University ofN01re Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Ediwrial comem, including advercisemems, is nor governed by policies ofrhe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves 1he right lO refuse advertisement, based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of rhc Ediwr in Chief, Managing Editor, A.ssistanl Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the aurhors and nor n=sarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vic-wpoinc >pace is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through leners is encouraged. Letters 10 rhc Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qu,stiom reg11rdmg Ob,m•a polici~, ,ho,dd b, d,rm­


,-d t(J r'diror m ChiefMih Comiol[y. 
DILBERT 
A5 "IOU RECOMf"\ENDEO 1 I CANCELED TH£ :>OfTW~RE UPGRi\0£. 
E 
8 
t 
Q.l 
s 

In the next weeks and months we shall see whether our administration sticks with the tradition of control and censor­ship, or courageously starts opening our Universily tu the free expression ofslu­dent opinion. 
Notre Dame is a 
Aaron Kreider
private school. 
though it relies 
upon federal fund­
Think.
ing (notably student 
Question,
aid and research 
Resist
grants) without 
which our school 

would be either smaller, less prestigious 
or both. As a publicly-supported institu­
tion it should be responsible for uphol9­
ing minimal standards regarding free speech, but I won't focus on that argu­
ment. 

Rather, let us examine the role of a Catholic University. Firstly as a University, our mission is to teach critical thinking. Students must be able to open­ly discuss contrasting ideas, to discern what is true and what is not. Ideally teachers present a wide array of theories on a relative equal-footing, giving stu­dents the information and tools they need to make their own decisions. Thus academic freedom at the class-level is essential. 
The idea that it can exist without a corresponding freedom of expression in regular (outside of class) student life is ludicrous. University life cannot be divid­ed into a false opposing dichotomy of "classes" and "campus life." Studying time blends into recreational time as stu­dents discuss ideas at meals. parties, while watching TV. e-mailing friends and many other moments. 
Much university learning occurs out­side the classroom in discussions. lec­tures, the activity of student organiza­tions and other things. Does it make sense to anyone that, for instance, stu­dents could take a course in gay-lesbian­bisexual studies (assuming it were offered and several departments are courageous enough to do it), but cannot form a student group to study the same thing? Or students could study the women's movement {which was over­whelmingly pro-choice), but if they were to form a women's organization it would have to be explicitly pro-Hfo? The admin­istration's actions several years ago against the Women's Resource Center show that neutralitv on that issue, which is otherwise desirable in a setting that should be promoting critical thinking and learning, is just not acceptable at Notre Dame. 
Secondly, our University is a Catholic community. I believe that faith is stronger if tested and that Notre Dame should be preparing students for the sec­ular world not by sheltering us, but by teaching us how to determine and stand up for our own values. As a residential community, most students study, live, play, eat, worship and sleep on campus. In addition, our campus is open to the public. Thus Notre Dame is, to take a legal term, a "quasi-public" space. Due to the dominant role that the campus plays in the lives of most Notre Dame students, we ought to have freedom here. 
Of course there is some freedom on campus. Otherwise people like me would have been expelled (or would have left in disgust) years ago. However, let us look at the many often-subtle places where freedom is limited. 
Demonstrations must be registered in advance and approval can be denied. Also if only one person is leafleting it can be treated as a demonstration. Petitions must be approved by the Director of Student Activities and signatures only collected at a reserved space at a reserved time. 
Posters must be approved by Student Activities -and posting space is limited (no kiosks and very few bulletin boards in buildings like DeBartolo and LaFortune). For-profit corporations (e.g. credit card advertisements) fill bulletin boards with their wares, violating duLac, while placing progressive posters on the walls of O'Shaughnessy can lead to pun­ishment. Activist chalking is erased while corporate advertising (www.varsity­books.com) and birthday greetings are not. 
Canvassing dorms, as done for student elections, violates duLac and could lead to punishment if activists did it. Club trips require 30 days advance notice and a University chaperone. Students do not have the unhindered right to form stu­dent organizations (e.g. OUTreach ND) Perhaps the greatest danger is that a rule that is normally ignored will b11 selectively enforced against yourself or your organization. 
A critical test of our freedom is the 
impending threat to The Observer. which 
could lose its independence very soon. 
Given that in the past 15 years the 
administration has censored Scholastic, 
WSND, WVFI and The Juggler, this 
attack upon The Observer should not be 
a surprise. However, it should be chal­
lenged. 
While the administration imposes unnecessary un-Christian restrictions on free speech that threaten our ability to be a university, these rules should be resisted. We have no moral responsibility to follow unjust rules imposed by a small elite group of University ollicers. 

Hegarding The Observer, the Faculty Senate has already passed a resolution and the student governments of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have expressed their concern. In seven days, to respond to the numerous barriers to student action mentioned previously, students will gather to launch a Coalition for Free Speech. We shall advocate for reason­able changes to current University poli­cies and give the University a chance to do the right thing. 
The resistance has started. For the past 40 years, Notre Dame students have rebelled against paternalist restrictions (from parietals to media censorship). If administrators do not like this -well, they did not have to come here and are free to leave. 
Aaron is pleased to announce that his alma mater, Goshen College, recently became the jirsl Mennonite college in North America to recognize a student gay, lesbian and bisexual group. I!is col­umn appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
T\.-\A.T'S THE tXA.CT 
'1'£5, I DO LOOK 

OPPOSITE. Of l•.H-\.C.,T 
THINN£.R. IT 

I RtCOt-\M[NOED. 
f"\UST BE BECAUSE 
"In other countries poverty is a 
'{OU ONL'< H£{)..R 
OF THE SIT-UP I 

misfortune -with us it is a crime. " 
WHAT "l'OU 
DID '<'ECZ>TERDt-.Y. 

WA.NT TO HEAR. 
Edward Bulwer-Lytton novelist 

'---,1:i,;,,---...i 
.........--....;:~~
iL.l:=;::[L_.J,.,._1,__J 
-------------------~ 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Monday, October 2, 2000 BSERVER page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Bishops advocate economic and social stability for all U.S. citizens 
The following is a statement by Bishop Members of Pax Christi USA made on March 23. 2000. Pax Christi ND will be hosting the Hread Not Stones campaign to rndirect military spending on Thursday, October 5th on South Quad at 4p.m. 
In his Sermon on the Mount, Jesus emphasized the parental care ol God by comparing it to tht~ care we give our own children. "Is them anyone among you. who if your child asks for bread, will give a stone?" (Mt. i:9) Jesus makes the point that. even we who are sinful, would never give our children a stone if' they asked for bread. ,\nd yet, in many ways, our . national budget priorities do exactly that. · 
In a time of unprecedented economic prosperity and budget surpluses, our political leaders cannot find the resources to provide a good education and reliable health care for tens of millions of our nation's childnm and we arc told that we cannot afford targeted tax relief for millions of strug­gling families. In our country alone, 35 million people live in poverty, and 31 million people report not having enough to eat, including 12 million children. Despite these frightening statistics and the lack of a rival super­power, the U.S. spends nearly seventeen times as much on defense as the combined total spent by the six countries most oft.en identified by the Pentagon as our potential adversaries. We seem intent on waging an arms race against ourselves -spending more than 50 percent of our federal discretionary budget on the military and tens of billions of dollars on nuclear and conventional weapon systems that have no plausible military purpose. Our government spends more in annual foreign military aid than it docs in funding sustainable development efforts for nations experiencing widespread poverty. The social needs of our nation and world are held hostage to military spending, making our world increasingly insecure. As the Vatican II document Gaudium et Spes pointed out years ago, "the arms race is an utterly treacherous trap for humanity and one that ensnares the poor to an intolerable degree." This point was made even stronger in the Vatican's 1976 United Nalions Statement on Disarmament. 
The United States has the highest rate of childhood povertv in the indus­trialized world and one of the lowest adult literacy rates. Many of our working poor are struggling in low paying jobs with no family healthcare benefits and inadequate childcare for their little ones. This is a tragic con­sequence of a nation which chooses to spend only six cents on.education and four cents on healthcare for every 50 cent'i which it spends on the military. We live in the wealthiest nation on earth and yet, it is still possi­ble for a family with a full-time worker to live in poverty, Demand at soup kitchens and food pantries is on the rise, with people being turned away at some facilities because there is not enough. Indeed, those who are poor cry out for life-sustaining bread. but we offer them the stones of war. 
~oving people toward economic and social stability is a goal that can be easily achieved if there were the public will to du so. Hut we cannot accomplish this goal and feed our insatiable appetite for more and better weapons. 
True peace and security does not lie in superior firepower but in a world where every person is enabled to develop their full human potential. The well being of our nation's people holds the key to our future peace and security. We could offer all who hunger the bread they need ifwe were willing to drop our stones. If we eliminated even one of the J.-22 tighter planes planned for production this year, we could build 31 new ele­mentary schools. If we chose to eliminate just three new attack sub­marines, we could build 90,000 affordable apartment units. The United Nations Development Program estimates that the basic health and nutri­tion needs or the world's poorest people could be met for an additional $13 billion per year, about five percent of this year's U.S. military budget. Turning away from our addiction to costly and strategically questionable conventional and nuclear weapon systems could free up tens of billions of dollars a year to meet the needs of people living in poverty. 
We view the federal budget as a moral document that must reflect our degree of compassion for those who arc poor and sulTering in our own society. We therefore call for a national Catholic campaign of prayer, study and action to end exorbitant military spending in order to provide for the needs of all our people. We call for a campaign in our parishes, schools and Catholic organizations which will takP. up thP. plea of Pope John Paul II for "a moral about-face" regarding our appetite for weapons of war. During this budget and election cycle we must marshal our resources and summon our moral courage to say "no" to a bloated mili­tary budget which robs those who are poor and vulnerable and "yes" to a budget which helps lift people out of poverty. We must say "no" to the insatiable appetite for more and better weapons which destabilize rela­tionships between nations and "yes" to the development of new diplomatic strategies which promote lasting peace. If we can do this, then we can transform the stones of war into the bread of life for those in need both at home and throughout our world. 
Bishop Members of Pax Christi, USA 
September 29, 2000 

This past week, the Board of Governance was presented with a challenging task in responding to a controversial T-shirt pro­duced by the Junior Class Board. The Board of Governance, in an 18-3 vote (with one abstenlion), elected to revoke the distribution and sales of the junior class T-shirt. This deci­sion was made by utilizing and upholding the Saint Mary's Student Government Association constitution, as well as the mission of Saint Mary's College. 
As student body president and vice presi­dent. we arc official representatives of' our student body, and ultimately, stl:ldent repre­sentatives of this fine institution. We seek to maintain mutual respect and communication among the students, faculty and administra­tion. The welfare of the students as members of our College community is our primary aim. We, as well as the additional members of the Board of Governance, have the right and responsibility to express ourselves on all mat­ters affecting the student community we rep­resent, as noted in our SGA constitution. 
During Wednesday night's BOG meeting, we had an obligation to address the shirt's impli­cations aftBr rnceiving numerous complaints from members of our student body. Therefore, it was immediately entered into the evening's agenda. Both of us expressed our strong aversion towards the shirt's obvi­ous implications. As student body president and vice president, it is indeed our responsi­bility to voice our concerns and opinions on matters that affect the women we represent. In addition, it is our responsibility to maintain consistency inclusive with the Saint Mary's College Mission Statement when doing so. 
According to our constitution, the "Class governments are sanctioned by the board of Governance." It is the first time that this Board has had to utilize this authority. On Wednesday night. the BOG recognized its right and responsibility to "suspend, with­draw, or revoke recognition of any entity if it is determined that such action is in the best interest of Saint Mary's College," as pre­scribed by our SGA constitution. 
The decision to revoke distribution of this shirt was ultimately based upon inconsisten­cies found between the shirt's implications and our mission statement. namely, "Saint Mary's cultivates a community life which responds to the needs of women and cherish­es their talents ... the College strives to bring together women of different nations, cultures and races. It provides a residential environ­ment where women grow in their apprecia­tion of the strengths and needs of others." 
As students attending an all-women's col­lege, we should strive to foster and nourish relationships with all women. Perhaps the energies displayed and voiced in response to this T-shirt would be best directed toward building relationships, common goals and mutual respect with our fellow sisters who attend the University of Notre Dame. In doing so. we would like to be the first to offer our sincere apologies to the women of Notre Dame. 
To the women of Saint Mary's College, we encourage you to reflect on what it truly means to be a Saint Mary's woman. Today begins our second annual Saint Mary's Pride Week. It is a time to recognize that each woman on this campus has brought some­thing unique, something all their own to share with the rest of us. We have the opportunity to grow in an environment of diverse and talent­ed women and one that challenges and inspires us to grow in our knowledge. 
We arc honored to serve and represent such an incredible student body. 
Crissie Renner 
Student Body President 
Michelle Nagle 
Student Body Vice President Sainr Mary's College October I, 2000 

Viewing T-shirt with humor 
Thank you for a good laugh on a Friday afternoon! 
Or am I the only one in the new politically correct and hypersensitive ND-SMC communi­ty who lhinks the "controversy" over the Saint Mary's College junior class shirt is hilarious? This is almost as silly as the Captain Crunch protests of the mid-80's. After the previous day's article with no picture, which elicited a lot ofspeculation as to what could be so "offensive," I was delighted to see such a cute (few things are cute to me) and clever idea. 
It may surprise or even "offend" many around here to know that stereotypes are true, that is, contain an element of truth that can be quite humorous if not used in a mean spirited way, assuming one still has a sense of humor. To those offended by the shirt, please lighten up. To the junior class at SMC, you go girls! If the shirts have not been destroyed, I would love to have one as a gift for my niece, who may be a member of the class of 2006. She would enjoy the laugh. 
God bless you all and please forgive me if I have offended anyone. It seems increasingly easy to do so around here. 
Reverend John Patrick Riley, CSC 
Sacred Heart Parish Occoher I, 2000 

T H 
E
c~ne R 
page 14 Monday, October 2, 2000 
South Bend audiences ge1i 
Popular musical comes to South Bend for three-night 
show 

By MERIDETH PIERCE 
Scene Writer 
From Tuesday Lhruugh Thursday, "Bent" will transform the entire audience at the Morris Performing Arts Center into u herd or cattle 
"Rent"

and con­
vi n cc . Morris Performing 
them to 
Arts Center 

moo on 
. Tuesdav, Wednesday

cue. T h i s and Thursday nights will be 
. 7:30 ~.m.

consid­
ered a . Tickets available: 
minor 
call 245-6085 

accom­
p I is h ­
mcnt. 
lwwever. comparPd to a long list 
of' groundbrPaking !'cats the 
musical has already complPted. 
Bnsidns dea.li ng with several 
hotly debated topics in today's 
sociPty, "Hent" has seizPd major 
theater awards, including the 
19<)(, Tony /\ward f'or Bust 
Musical as w1dl as the Pulitzer 
Prizl' for drama. 
The show premiered off­Broadway at l\il'w York ThPatrc Workshop on Feb. 13, 1996. HccPiving enthusiastic reviews "Hent" became a sold-out hit instantly. 

T IIC' s how t r a n s re r r e d to 

Broadway on April 29, 199fi and 
The incredibly popular musical "Rent" will be performed at the Morris Performing Arts Center this week. The highly acclaimed rock
continues to sc-11 out. 
Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Students will receive $15 off any ticket price and can purchase tickets by calling 245-685.
Inspired by Puccini's "La Boheme," the story takes place in New York's East Village with 
motorcycle. When the creator Jonathan Larson However, with the nature or travel­
the majority of characters striving to 
Maureen is not the only character said in regards to living life in the ing companies, group to group certainmake ends meet to pay the rnnt. This 
that has inspired the groupies. l\ngel, song "Another Day" that there was things change.
factor is compounded by drug usage 
a transvestite drummer, generally "no day but today" he was right. One thing that will not change are
and tlw fact that nearly all the charac­
causes wild cheers from the crowd as Larson never got to see "Hent" per­the looks or the characters from com­ters are II IV positive. 
well. Especially when she shows up in formed on, or off-Broadway. On the pany to company. Unusual casting tra­The story l'ocusl\S around a musician 
a candy-cane striped dress with glitter morning or Jan. 25, 1<J96, hours after ditions ensure that the charactersnamed Hoger who has just recently 
lipstick. the !"inal dress rehearsal off­remain similar from company to com­
discovered he has the virus. llis 
However, it is not just the characters Broadway, 10 days before his 36th pany.
roommate, Mark a filmmaker, nar­t h a t birthday, Auditions for the cast arc open audi­rates the musical by video taping 
C a U S e Larson tions. It is also not unknown for sonw­
much of" the action as well as com­t h e s C 
d i e d one who is already involved in th(\
menting on the situations. The rest ol' 
groupies U 11 e X -show to see someone who fits the lookUrn cast is composed of l'riends, lovers 
to get so pectcdly f'or another character. and stop llrnm
and ex-lovers or the two men. 
pumped of an in the street to tell them to audition.
The plot cent1irs around how these 

to see aortic The voices are extremely important
people live with the knowledge uf 
t h e a n e u -in casting as well. Each character intheir inevitable untimely deaths and 
show. rysm. !lent has just as distinct a vocal sound
how life itself can be measured -in 
T h c 13 u t as his or her looks.
love. 
m US i C Larson For most characters this vocal sound
The fact that "!font" deals with these 

issues in a plays a lives on is much different from any other
realistic and entertaining 

h ll g C in "Rent" sound a theatre fan would hear on
manner whilo capturing th1! culture of 
p a r t , tu th is Broadway.
Lhl' time, is one reason why popularity 
creating day. In In addition to the dozen of awards
has grown to form "Hent groupies." A a rock his char­for the controversial "Rent." Larson
Hent groupin is a person who has been 
concert acters, has also scored and wrote songs for
motivated by the story and many of 
environment. The bantl, equipped his story and the audience they touch. ''Sesame Street," created music for
the chanicters. 
with electrical guilars, play on stage The overwhelming success of Hcnt children's book-cassettes including
l\ groupie can easily be spotted at 

at all times. The words are inspiring, can be attributed to many people and "An American Tail" and "Land Beforeany of the shows, especially when the 
causing much of the music to be an many things. Time," and conceived, directed andperformance artist. Maureen asks the instant hit. "Light My Candle," "La The original studio and off­wrote four original songs for "Awayaudience to moo while she artistically 
Vie Boheme" and especially "Seasons Broadway director Michael Greif set a We Go!," a musical video for children.
interprets her life. A Hent groupec will 
of Love" are among the best. high standard for the original cast, a For tickets to the show in South
many times start tu moo even before 
It is the reality of "Rent," however, standard which other future compa­Bend, call (219) 245-(J085. (And don 'L
she asks, and generally cheers wildly 
that a true groupie with appreciate. nies had no choice but to meet. forget to moo!)
when she first appears on stage via 
Monday, October 2, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 1 

CENTER 
<~"~ t"''t r\1 r=, ~~· r-1 ~. r<""' 
,,.._., 1,.._,-!'· •· ij ,,....,.,... ~-t , .. I 'iii "·:) ~~~~~$~~~~~::$::•:-~.s~•.r.-.~:~~{ 
2000-2001 DIRECTORY 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARV1S COLLEGE SERVICE AND SOCIAL ACTION GROUPS 
This directory includes more than 30 Center-related student groups as well as some 40 community agendes seeking volunteers. The agencies in italics have Community-Based Learning Coordinators on site. Bolded type indicates groups that are student run organizations. For more information on any organization, see the description on the following two pages. 
Project Wannth St. Margaret's House 

ADDICTIONS 
YWCA Women's Shelter St. Villcent de Paul Salvation Army 
ADULT LITERACY 
South Bend Herita?e Foundation r·emerfm· the Hn111e/e.<s YWCA Women's Shelter Center for Uasir Learning Skills Dismas House 
HUNGER CONCERNS 
El Iluen Vecino Literacy Council of St. Joseµh County 
South &ml Co111111w1i1y :ichoo/s Adu/I Educalion 
St. Margarel's House YWCA Women's Shelter 
ADULT-OLDER 
Millon Home Meridian-Cardinal Nursing Center 
CHILDREN & YOUTH 
(Also see Tt1tori11g) Big Brothers & Big Sisters Boys and Girls Club Broadway Christian Parish Casie Center Center for Social Concerns 
South Bend Cnmnmnily Schools f'ar111ership Centerfor the Home/es., 
Center for the Homeless Children's Group Circle K International Council for Fun and Learning El Buen Vecino El Campito Day Care Center Head Start Helpful Lndergraduate Students (H.U.G.S.) Home Management Services Hugh O'Brien Youth Foundation Alumni Association L1mch PA.CK. Madison Center 
Ms. Wizard Day Program Team ND/SMC Campus Girl Scouts Neighborhood Study Help Program 
St. Hedwig's Outreach Center St. Margaret's House Student Tutorial Education Program 
South Bend Hen/age Foundarwn 
YWCA Women's Shelter Special Friends 
SuperSibs University Young Life 
Youth Services Bureau 
CRIMINAL JUSTICE 
Amnesty International Dismas House Legal Services Sex Offense Services Student Tutorial Education Program Umted Relogious Community 
CULTURAL ISSUES 
Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics 
I.a Ca.,a de Ami.,1ad South Bend Heritage Foundation 
DISABILITY SERVICES 
Best Buddies Camp Millhouse Corvilla Council for fun and Leaming 
Lagan Cenier 
Logan Center (Council for the Retarded) Madison Center Reins of Life Special Friends SuperSibs 
ENVIRONMENT 
Foodshare Recyclin' Irish Students £or En,·ironmental Action (SEA) 
HOUSING AND HOMELESSNESS 
Broadway Christian Pansh 
Cemerfor the Homele" 
Center for the Homeless Children's Group Habitat for Humanity Hoµe Rescue Mission 

.,. E I·: T r:.: H r ;~ f~ 

Learning through Service and Social Action 


VOTING IN THE NEW MILLENNIUM 
Informed by Faith & Attentive to Global Responsibility 
Jay Caponigro Director, Urban Programs and Justice Education 
FondShare 

St. Vincent de Paul Salvation Anny World Hunger Coalition 
MmlCAL 

AIDS Awareness/Students with Aid~ Training 
AIDS Ministries Aid.< As.,isr 
American Cancer Society ( ·e111erfor 1he Home/.,,t1 Cliapm Sr. Clmit: 
First Aid Services Team Harbor Lights Hospice Helpful Undergraduate Students (H.ll.G.S.) Hospice Chapter, ND Hospice of St. Joseph County Notre Dame Global Health Initiative St. Joseph's Chapin St Healthcare 
MULTI-SERVICE GROUPS 
Arnold Air Society Catholic Charities Circle K International Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics Goodwill Industries of Michiana L' Esperanza 
Nor1heas1 Neighborhood Center 
Trident Naval Society World Hunger Coalition 
PEACE AND JUSTICE ISSUES 
Amnesty International Progressive Student Alliance Right to Life World Hunger Coalition 
TUTORING 

(Also see Children & Youth) Big Brothers & Big Sisters 
Cenrerfor 1he Home/es., 
Circle K International Council for Fun and Leaming El Buen Vecino 
!..a Casa de Amistod 

Neighborhood Study Help Program St. Hedwig's Outreach Center St. Margaret's House South Bend Juvenile Facility Student Tutorial Education Progrnm (STEP) YWCA Women's Shelter Youth Service Bureau (Safe Station) 
WOMEN'S CONCERNS 
Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination Feminists fro Life Home Management Services Right to Life, ND/SMC St. Margaret's House Sex Offense Services Student Advocates for Inclusive Ministry Women's Care Center 
YWCA Women's Shelter 
ONE TIME SERVICE OPPORTUNmES 
Christmas in April Circle K International Dismas House Habitat for Humanity Ms. W,zard Day Project Warmth Salvation Anny St. Vincent de Paul 
PEACE AND JUSTICE 
Progressive Student Alliance Notre Dame Chapter of Pax Christi -LSA 
The year 2000 marks many milestones, not the least of which is a United States Presidential election that will impact coun­tries far beyond the U.S. geographic borders. Yet, for all the implications this election will have for people across the globe, very few 
U.S. citizens are actually involved in the elec­tion process because they feel powerless to affect the outcome. lfwe feel powerless, I ask you to consider just how desperate residents in Uganda, Haiti, East Timor, or Nepal must feel as we U.S. citizens go (or do not go!) to the ballot box. 
One could realistically argue that despite the national scope of the elections, we have, in fact, already become global citizens in many ways. Our patterns of travel, consump­VOTE. In this election year, the United States Catholic Conference of Bishops reminds us that the measure of every human institution is whether or not it enhances the life and digni­ty of the human person. The USCCB claims that Life and the Dignity of the Human Person lie at the heart of Catholic Social Teaching and that all people must be respected in soci­ety. Thus, the institution of our government must be under our faith-based lens during the election season. Which candidates will lead our governmental institutions to embrace the dignity of life in our country -from Appalachian Mountains to the Border Colonias to our inner cities? 
But civic responsibility does not end at the election booth. Your vote may be your voice, 
tion, education, but that voice is
As PEOPLE wn.a1HtVEBEEN GIVEN
and communica­amplified when 
MUCH, WE,,H'1YE:: "Y-HE DlJTy, WHICH IS
tion bring us elected officials URGENT TO ·l:VERYONE'TODAY TO WORK

together now know you are
.. (:/::)::r::-:/ :._ ·: ; :· <:-::\_;} :/::-_ ' more than ever TOGETHER FORtTHE FUtti{.lEVELOPMENT actively seeking before in our justice in the years world. New wC:o~;Hi~jj;~it~~[p~®;'~;~~LT~~E between elections. words are being After all, empty
PEOPLE [TH~'lueaoui:~E WORLD]."'
·-·-::.:;::::/?\"::··::•;'.;:::.:::-:;'.::•:..

created each day, election promises"~ . . . . . .··,,
it seems, to are only easy for
,;,;,· U t}POPE JOHN PAUL II
describe the enor­politicians if we 
mous reach of technology and capital that have enveloped our globe, and which have evaded local or national structures meant to limit capitalism's predictable excesses. 
As a result, evidence continues to mount describing the disparity in the distribution of wealth caused by the globalization of economies. The poor are becoming poorer, while wealth is concentrated in fewer hands at higher extremes -63 millionaires are created each day, for example -in Silicon Valley alone. 
In the United States, with 5% of the world's population and 50% of the world's wealth, how are we --as Global Citizens --and more importantly, --as People of Faith --answering to the parable of the talents? Pope John Paul II reminds us in his encyclical "On Social Concern" that as people who have been given much, we have "the duty, which is urgent for everyone today, to work together for the full development of others: 'development of the whole human being and of all the people [throughout the world.]"' 
This duty involves the responsibility to 
fail to hold them accountable for their actions while in office. The Pope and the Bishops remind us that we must organize within the church and with other allies who believe in the goodness and worth of life, and ensure that our elected rep­resentatives know that it matters how they represent us after the election, as well. 
One final point: Catholic Social Tradition teaches us that we are born into solidarity with our brothers and sisters across the world because we have all been endowed with Dignity by our Creator. In the choices we make in an election, or even in the purchase of some merchandise, let us demonstrate that solidarity through underlying values that affirm and enhance the worth of workers at home and abroad. 
Globalization is here. During the frenzy of this transformation, let us not lose sight of that which binds us all together as children of God -our basic human dignity. So be a responsible global citizen, pronounce your values, and do your part to "Globalize Dignity" through an informed VOTE this election, and by faith-filled public action 
Rooted in the Gospel and Catholic social tradition, the Center for Social Concerns ofthe University ofNotre Dame creates formative educational and 

service experiences in collaboration with diverse partners, calling us to action for a more just and hun1ane world. 
page 2 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, October 2, 2000 
STUDENT GROUPS COMMU 

AIDS AWARENESS ISTUPENTSWITHAU>S. 
TRAINING (SWi\TI . Volun1eers give s-0cia! '.:il!pport to individuals who are l!IV+ by rroviding support und ussi:.tllilcc with oflicc tasks. Student Contact'. Wendy Watkins@ 6}4-4200 
AMERICAN CANCER SOCIEJY 
Volunteers organize on-campus aw,m:m:ss nusrng and fund-raising events. Student Cnntact: Meaghan Calcari @ 634-3842 
' AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL 
V(,lunteers arc needed for!etter whting~ petition signs ing., ;;pccial 1.:ampaign work, ,'ind infotrtml ~fo;cussion:i about human rights issues worldwide. Student Contact: Greg Adams@ 634-0825 
ARNOLD AIR SOCIETY 
Arnold Air Socicty advocates the support of Aernspm:e power. Instills in its members an attitude of unsi:llish dedication to the 111 ission of the Air Force and AAS and mak.es contributions to the community nnd campus. Contact: Matthew Murphy @ 634-20 I0 
BEST BUDDIES 
Volunteers develop their relationships with persons wilh mild to moderate mental retardation by going to movies, sporting events, concerts. and by participat­ing together in recreational activities. Student Contact: Mimi Raleigh @251-1093 
BIG BROTHERS & BIG SISTERS Volunteers provide shared time and friendship bctwei.:n a student and a child. Student Contact: Robert Coop @ 634-4264 
CAMPUS ALIANCE FOR RAPE ELIMINATION 
Volunteers arc students and facultyladn"iinistratms from both ND and SMC. C.A.R.E. memhcrs make dorm presentations ahout rape on campus and sponsor rape support grours on campus: Student Contact: James Schuyler@ 634-2178 
CAMPUS GIRL SCOUTS, ND/SMC 
Volunteers work with local Girl Smut groups as spon­sors. Student Contact: Kirn Jackson@ 634-3881 
CENTER FOR THE HOMELESS CHILDREN'S GROUP 
Volunteers spend time once a week wi1h the children who liw at the CF! I. Volunteers might tutor. organize field trips and plan art & cran activities. Student Contact: Luisa Lewis & Jenny Foster@ 272-9880 
CIRCLE K INTERNATIONAL 
Volunteers work on a variety of service activities tnduding working with childn:n and neighhorhood clca11 up. Student Contact: Nathaniel DeNicola @ 63--1-0914 
COMMUNITY ALLIANCE TO SERVE HISPANICS (CASH) 
v,,luntccrs reach out to the Hispanic community of South lknd through service activities, educational programs. and awareness projects. Student Contact: /\ndn:a Gonzalez ,11. 634-2969 
EAST TIMOR ACTION NETWORK 
The Esat Timor Action Network seeks to build sup­port ut Notre Dmm.: for fundrnising efforts to benefit East Timorcsc reconstruction initiatives in education and medicine. Student Contact Jim Madden@ 6H­OR20 
EDUCATIONAL OUTREACH PROGRAM Volunteers are involved in. cr¢aLi11g:: o.nd presenting demonstrations to junior high and high school stu• dents. By going into classrooms. volunteers hope to promote science and technology careers. Student Contact; John Buckreis@ 24}-7794 

EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING COUNCIL 
Designed to develop and enhance service learning opportunities particularly through the experiential learning seminars offered by the Center for Social Concerns. Student Contact: Joe Lake @634-4931 

···:M~::~,;,: ~bn¢ertsJI~h~~~ t~*:i;lJ::ijJ~~; 
:i¥q;Vg~J~~ ~*~~~r 
Review, cat~pus i\inri: an<lany other ND/SMC a~itv­
ity that requests the foam's service. Student Contact: 
John Osborn @ 634-3569 
FOODSHARE 
Volunteers deliver, in groups of four OT five. the left­over food from the campus dining halls to the Center for the Homeless and Hope Rescue Mission in South Bend. Student Contact Kathleen Destino @ 634­0852 
::~;~~1~~:~i~l:~~,~~1;;;i~llli1~~ii~II~~:
·.the··-Childfodts qi~p*dsi:frf•·••ih Sfojth ,Bet1i'h Stt'!d~nt Cont,1ct:KfllyQttetbathcn@6j4~'.3796 · · 
GLOBAL HEALTH INITIATIVE 
ND Educates and promotes awareness of health relat­
ed issues around the world. Student Contact: Andrea 
Mechenbier@ 634-1071 
· ···• ···<·•·< ..•. \R4QiJATFOR.-UMANITY)i;::)))ifoiJ: <>••· .....•.Yoluh(eif§'Yi{fr¥ih §o~sii~ifi~ff \,%~~# ~ij~iltf { 111 atetial~. ~nd ~k/Yidt m~iJ~i'. thb \v<Yti< gfo~p;,.· . Student·contact BrendenDowdail@634-4388 
HELPFUL UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS {H.U.G.S.} 
Volunteers work with the Memorial Hospital 
Pediatric Intensive Care Unit. Student Contact: Arny 
Anderson @247-1689 
:·_::::::-:·HQ5=P,c~;:cHAPTEJt,?"D.•···<: ·:-=//?tfft\}W V0Iu1tte¢ts·Yl§iffttm1n.Mry•.i11•.·patibbrs,ii)••t~~i(hortifs:• 
SiLJdcnt Co11t~cts( AnnieVogel@f243~7863 
JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT CLUB OF NOTRE DAME 
Volunteers teach three different programs at area schools: Project Business. The Basics of Business.. Economics of Staying in School. Student Contact: Michael Moran@ 273-2169 
Volun:~cfs······••i:~~~· •.f~~:~i:.....tli¢ •.· NSI~~·······•ci;~~1¢·•
Cb ITT mllTI ity of thithitd \\fOt!d 'kateiJupp[y ~.inratfon as well as research possible solutions to the problem. Student Contact: Jeremy Bauer@ 634-l () 19 
LOGAN CENTER SPECIAL FRIENDS 
Volunteers spend about 4 hours a week in the homt: nr an autistic or similar special needs child helping with homework, speech and occupational therapy goals, and having a good time. Student Contact: Jessica 1 lauser@ 232-7358 

MS.WIZARD DAY PROGRAM TEAM Volunteers organize a one-day science fair in February for young women in middle school. Student Contact: Julie Sherwin@ 6)4-2770 
NOTRE DAME HUGH O'BRIAN LEADERSHIP ALUMNI ASSOCIATION (ND HOBYI 
ND IIOI3Y provides a forum for l!OBY alumni at Notre Dame to continue developing their leadership through service and social action activities. Student Contact: Luke Fischer@ 634-0717 

PROGRESSIVE STUDENT ALLIANCE 
The PSA opposes all forms of oppression and is work­ing for social justice hy raising awareness or social issues. cooperating with existing groups, i.:mpowering students and encouraging action. Student Contact: Sarah Grceman @ 288-6592 
,C(i\/ii1'i/iiWW::'. ~l~f~~'JRISH ········•: ·. ·.·················•····•·· ·•······
\!Qturxh;;}~ ~}gh1\it~)hyoct~hout··the dorms.and laeili­ties ;011, <;mnpus the yaiious recycling rdfortsi which include newspaper. glass, aluminum and now paper. plastic, and polyurethane. Student Contact: Janine .lanesheski @ 634-4285 
RIGHT TO LIFE, ND/SMC 

Volunteers focus on the national ahortion issue. Activities include picketing at the Women·s Pavilion. dorm forums. trips to Washington. D.C., and a Right­to-Life week during the year. Student Contact: Amanda Rei mer @ 634-1464 
STUDENTS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION (SEA) 
VoNrit¢et-i profoote ~Wareriess· ofenvirdn/nenfal issues amongst thestudent body and thi.: South Bend community. Student Contact: Monica Bu11chael1 @ 234-0932 
NET IMPACT 

Encourages students to use their business skills to promote corporate social responsibility in social ven­ture projects, classroom discussions. speaker presen­tation, and husiness seminars. Student Contact: Sarah Boltwala @ 251-J358 
ST0b£Nt.TUTORIAL · EDUCATION PROGRAM '\/qi9nfi~r~ \ii$i(il1~ ~Qiith ${11a·•1 uvcrjili •P~fafi ty .q,fo 
riighfa Week and spend lln hour with a resident com~ pleting work or talking about constructive topics. Student Contact: Sarah Schwartz @ 634-0933 
SUPERSIBS 

Volunteers work with children who have siblings with disahilities. Student Contact: Aaron Cook @ 243­47 l 5 

·yJiJif~~;;t1a1)cye1#s t.•w<>tk witl1local.. l\iSh scl;<5&1 
stupents. Student Contact: Kylene Sm ith@634-2206 
WOMEN'S RESOURCE CENTER 
Volunteers provide assistance to the wo1m:11 of Notre Dame with issues and problems that arc particularly acute for women, such as rape and sexual assault. eat­ing disorders,. etc. Student Contact: Diana Simpson @ 634-}834 
-¦-~l\\~i
Voluriieeffairijfo grdw ir,frifoally and meritallf while allevia.tinghunger: Student Contact: Lisa Britnall @ 634-2441 
AIDS MINISTRIES / AIDS J Volunteers work with the agenc:J and enhance the lives of those inti affected by IIIY and AID Comrnunity-13ascd Learning 
Dehm Stanley @ 234-2870 
( AM~ICAN l,.UNG ASSOC!
·sijlit~t~ WY~H~tf of $¢th~es M 
tidn 1irtd C(\!Htol of lung dis~ Pho11c: 287•2321 · 
AMERICAN RED CRO 
Community volunteer services grams. recruits. trains and places, meet community need, througl education and emergency serv, Contact: Mynell Molsby ® 234-C 
··•·• BOYS & GIRLS CLOi vJ1tlBte~W· ij~Sitt with.· t~totin@ rccrcatiq1j pfograms for ages 61 Agency Contact: Kregg Van M1 2048 
BROADWAY CHRISTIAN F 
Volunteers help with the Sunda~ ing. serving and ckaning up) a. food pantr) and n.:ighhorho< /\gcncy Phone: 289-0333 
CASIE CENTER ! Voluntters it~si st staff with both r and 
speciaI projects that benefit • their families. /\gency Con: Szymanski rzr. 282-1-11-1 
CATHOLIC CHARITIE Various Catholic Charities progra variety of services . including women. children and rd'uge Contact: Rebi.:cca Babier~ 234­
SOCIAL CONCE 
. 
Alumni Bob Sullivan 4-( 

. 
Badin 



John,.McKier11an I •• 4-1· Paul ijLckettsk:. j "·i 4-1 
. Farlev.,.•,. ,... •·•·••·• ,,.• ,...... , .•·......... .:.. ..... 
Michelle'i:foWH3 · ·· ·:$:; 
. Fi~~i::;erland :(:::::::::::.Jr 
. 
Howard.;,,,..,.....·,y, .-,...,,_ '."'; ·'-"'-;' F'" "'.'.·:·,..,,•.,,, Meg Anderson 4-2471 

. 
K~;~;;pi(;::,:::) ,~ 

. 
Keough Nick*•ntr;:=w•:mltg':;i:;ptWJi 

. 
Knott Michael Donohue 4­Pat Peters 4­

. 
Lewis Margaret Laracy 4-1 Jen Kane 4-~ 




. ----­

Monday, October 2, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 3 
ITY PARTNERSHIPS 
DISMAS HOUSE 
ST. VINCENT DE PAUL 
Volunteers are needed to cook for the residents Volunteers work in the thrift store to prepare
,~';;,:",~ ~·--M-Th. Students are also needed to live at used goods for sale. Anyone organizing a food Contact: ror· Bf\s'{c· µtarning sti(tii'••i'ti:'s&Jtti B¢i( Dismas llouse. Agency Contact: Maria ~:ii.@wrlhik{1ntii\i•hlidhtl¾F~~ilviti~.;Jt~lt•• or clothing drive can work through this grass­
:oordinator Houts'. 8arn~I 2pm M-f · Kaczmarek@ 233-8522 q-idh\iMVi$~~ct '),!~lrmi c;{}pi'41,J;@r: Mwiisa roots organization. Agency Contact: William
Runkle@ 289~831 · · · · · · Agency Contact: Si~tcr Marita@ 234-0295 Mucmpfer@ 251-4908
Student Group Contact Jennifer Martell @ 284­4149 
,•..• p~::·:·1~tt,: CENTER FOR THE HOMELESS MADISON CENTER 1
1:rn:t1II!II:~:t]iI;i t!fi418N"AJMXt1:.. ··t;• 1:•t1•:;;
he pr1t~iri• Volunteers provide a variety of services to This private, non-profit behavio.ral health care 
1!!!fi~1!:lial~:l!~r~11,:li.~!~~l~~,,:f;1: 
e, Ag!M.W homeless adults and children. Contact: ··••1w'ts(t149!'llt•••tor•t.1\.~1r:-Jusn ~~~~·~1••?tj¼:ft;1~n#st·· facility providing various levels of treatment to ~iii~ir,~~i~:ifli:Wfl~tt',vr~~~t!'I; Community-Based Learning Coordinator ;n1ey•·a1so•fotlp.wiifrcl1Jl<l¢at'fa1)d.W9t(Qith. all age groups has volunteer opportunities s;4ih lijeh~J St~tient y6iu;1tt!el'!l Cio "adbpf;·~.·• Ellen Sinis@ 282-8700 at~ri sk··• farnffi es. fo teae:li . ~fofs/ mahdgemeiit available lo assist children and adolescents south Bend t'am11f through the sarvation 
skills, nutrition and healthy livillg. Agency who have emotional and behavioral diflicul­Army. Agency Phone: 233-9471 Contact: Sara Haber@ 287-27 I2 ties. Contact Human Resources@ 283-1123 
'JF'/ t$t\$pij'ffl fl~'®MMPNIJY·•.>>•··•···· EL CAMPITO DAY CARE CENTER 
SEX OFFENSE SERVICES (SOS) 
!ans. pro­SCHOOLS PiUtrNtRSHIP' / •·•· .·· Volunteers act as role models for young chil­Volunteers work at Madison Center and assist 
luntecrs to dren from single parent families. Volunteers victims of sexual assault and their families.
VJ1;111e;r;•••••gitt•$lM~t&1it1i~i'~J~;;tJtmtt:~rid
community also assist regular day care instructors in plan­Agency Contact: Laurel Eslinger@ 283-I 308 \vork w1th. stilderits· gratlesK'.T2 as ntcnfors 'S. Agency ning and implementing their organized pro­
and tutors. Contact'. Community-Based 91 ext. 17 gram. Agency Phone: 232-0220 24-hour Helpline: 289-4357
Learning Coordinator Tonya Sexton I{]; 631­9405 
CHAPIN STREET CLINIC MILTON HOME 
Volunteers work in a medical clinic that pro­Volunteers visit elderly residents on a one-to­
ii~llll~!l1ii~lii1!11!1fiiflllili!~:1;i:
he.altlf ifod 

hr~ugh;J&. vides services to low-income adults and fami­11¦11&1 onc basis. Agency Phone: 233-0165 r~i~Ji)j}Ji\fi18 f}\Yiit&ii ~8f~ .Waliltlli ~6& 
er@ 232-lies. Contact: Community-Based Learning Sponsor • ifyou. f~i1. gjye }·1'h?ttfS }'Ct")f'h!l1 fufe(~ee~IY.• t(j talk abtfot\.haf# hap#¢n)ri~·Coordinator Michc.:lle Peters@ 239-5233 sharing activities,.vith:hc.fiild:liitcrn oppQhu­iritl)efr.iives and the \\.orldffiey fade; Agenby Student Group Contact: Graham Carlos (iii nities also available. Agency Contact: Carol Contact: Michelle Peters @ 232-4070 634-I978 Mayernick @ 259-5666 ext 225 
RISH .··• . CFJARtts.MAifilN voufil CENTER . GOODWILL INDUSTRIES OF SOUTH BEND COMMUNITY SCHOOLS
1
1

neal (cook­VolunteersWolk~vhhct1ildfenifr4ftJrcsclfool MICHIANA : l~fl.l¦ll1!iJ!ll l:!h w ADULT EDUCATION well as the tut0Hng•pr6grat11s: Ste South Ben<llforita'.gc Volunteers help with half-price sales at ••yJfµrttlibH•®?lµ••»Jlm••~tigr)~iy••t~l~i~ijd(giii; Volunteers work individually with adult stu­I projects. Foundation for other opportunities. Contact: Goodwill stores. Agency Contact David erat d()natlpn se~'Rirjg; \l./!Jrl{a~ suiri111efcamp dents who are learning basic job and life skills. Jessie Whitaker@63l-321 l Levendowski @ 234-1611 cotihselotsfilld asstsf ,tifh Various events studying for their GED or simply learning lit­throughout the year. Agency Contact eracy skills. Agency Contact Gayle Silver @ Stephanie Santos @ 259-9912 282-5694 
CHRISTMAS IN APRIL 
PORTAGE MANOR r:•rrnr:mrn SPUTH ]JENO HERITAGE ;...........,,.,.... U\The dtities Volunteers upgrade neighborhood homes and ··•)'ql.u11tir~•••~re··••he?d.•~djt9)\yQ~ti ~i••n~J.r~{~tr· Volunteers needed to pay regular visits to indi­·t: ' t ro6N6ir10NJ••]t 
7 

lrildre11 hnd lift residents' spirits. Contact: Jenny Monahan \~eek·· Wlth• chil<lrell .n aon~;to:citi-e• Bwiis.. vidual residents who have no family. Agency Vd1tirii~t; JJJ Jbiis 16 ,iimr M;ntiBici df ct: Sharon fZ!.631-3243 Agency· Contact: •oweri :Taylbr\w 234~215 Contact: Toni Grisham @ 272-9100 nejghboi:hooct revitalizatiqp..:.Also•· availaMe. are internships and course-based work in com­munity development Contact: David Hay @ 289-1066 

CORVILLA, INC. HOME MANAGEMENT RESOURCES ···•·' ·t.t'········ )POTAWAtoWltzoo••:::··••·•·••···•·••,•· UNITED HEALTH SERVICES 
Volunteers are needed to help with special
1s provide a A %u~IJ. qrg.w)j#itio.n .Jl1at..·. pfqfig)%·.lqyjµg • Home Management Resources is a charitable ••xfi1s•·•t~p•Jn§B!fim••••lin.#It~~~in~q~:•irrgm1e~i•services for homesan<l services for-peopfc ·with d6velbp· organization dedicated to strengthening the li~sffol' stud:eh(# to V§tµt\leif/iiji;)u.dfog pfo> events including a fundraiser in October and 
s.  ,'\gency  mental  disabilities  is seeking volunteers to  
11'1  help with '·FUN" activities for residents. i.e.  
bowling, picnics. dances. hayrides & movies.  
Agency Contact: Diana Dolde@ 289-9779 .  

S COMMISSIONERS 2000-2001 
. Lyons 23 Kathleen Smith 4-4294 
4-2900 

·••·-·•.•.•··.•.•.··.•.• .•.••·-·-·.•.•.·-·.• ... , ·-·· -· 
5Qy (' {Megan Swee~ ,••:., 4-4514. 
71. (,,, . ija,squerilla Weff •,.> ,/{ ifili~.. :;s,/::;.@:;s; '>.ic'il%.•:,w,J:~ijtkfik'·•<ii'i.iii.{'.,d?&S:,:.i::::~~}it.,:,., 
1251 _,;:~d:;,i,.~ . St. E,fwards ..%-11. [ if Act~m Willis .,,'? th 4i'1706 
1933 olf,,,,.,,,,,)f . SiegFled d""'"'''t,. }&;,,..%;; ;N,,, .-·•·~,,"·•·•· , ...,, y:<;:,,. :••:~r~:~~ W~-·.x,,,,,.,•. :~--, •.•,.w..,,,.•,,,. ""'· ,tkp:;71h,.,, 
~1 ,::::: ·f;:~:!ti.11¾'\•J.f 5,;::
l3lt . Walsht:' i .•NJ,,:':'Wi::!!!!~~:::A:::~''.M¥M!~~~t 
Victoria Fetterman 4-1224

1932 
Beth Lauck 4-1399 

. Zahm 
24 
J.P. Jarczyk 4-1453 

836 
Nate Nelson 4-1703 

. Pasquerilla East 
family. Volunteer positions exist in child care. segt@i<5h$.i'ii1d ffi114r#is¥ts( Al?;egcy Ccimact: other events throughout the year. Agency clerical. and computer technology. Agency Jan Siders@'.2&824639 . . . Contact: Mary Heck @ 234-3 136 Contact: Evelyn Goad@ 233-3486 
·.... ·. / ·•····••·• t10PE RESCUE MISS!ON PROJECT WARMTH '·t•·, UNITED RELIGIOUS COMMUNITY •••v;j~Ji~~ti··•·lf;sit~tl••••~;J;iJ!•I~J~yi~4},~~1~i. Volunteers help collect, sort and distribute Y<lt~t&ifi w!@lrafoli 16 i1iahiii&h ikitrn illlJ 
jackets and coats to share with individuals in
•<:haper• s~rtit~{; prp~fani*;(JNiW mtn[#cy' \v~I pri 1¢8\ll~t&Jlt~m&~ \ii~tim Q~~tjd~t 
·oppoitu11ities,·•·11tayer. sµppqrt; ..•.. a11d·. are the need. Contact: Judson Strauch @631-3356 R.ep~focitiition Prqgtam a.rtdJ!te· A,dyqba~y 
hearts and hands that care for the forgotten in Center. Agency Phone: '.282~2397 
the community. Agency Contact: Tracy Rose 
@ 235-4150 ext 231 
HOSPICE OF ST. JOSEPH VOLUNTEER BLOOD DONOR 
COUNTY, INC. "l!illll!i!liJl•IJtlliflil1ililiiiitk~fi 
PROGRAM 

Volunteers provide support services for termi­Students are needed to organize blood drives
1$t ~#6p!:~1@tt! ~ll~~1il1if}:iri~if~JJijJm;J 
nally ill patients and their families. Agency hotseback?fiding classes/ Agerfo}' Contact: on campus. Agency Contact: Donor Recruiter Phone: 243-3127 Janette Carson@29I-4540 at Central Blood Bank@234-l 157 
-

ST. HEDWIG'S OUTREACH CENTER WQMEN1StAREWi'ER t 
wi1tiri\~f~ r~ip \filgd~i rfJ~n1txfJffijii
·a.i.id ¢oupl~$/ G). hii~~~i tht\nf gafh~fJhcfamilies that are in crisis. It involves one or
needs of····H1spa11ics. Contabt·· Community­res.tirces thatthey oad to complete the pfog­Based Learnir1g Coordinator: Adrianna two afternoons per week from 4':30-6:00 p.111. na,foy. Volunteers al$o needed for child-care 
Agency Phone: 287-8932
Genera-Wurst @ 233-2120 assistance for clients. Agency Contact: Laura 
Druley@ 273-8986 
LEGAL SERVICES ·•·•·•••••••w~••~pi:~~~QijA'bMJe194~:ij~~~~...,........ YOUTH SERVICES BUREAU 
Legal Services seeks volunteers to serve as •v4~qm~g[,t1i*{i'.#@i4.mtni::§wit::wi~ti•:•y~t~~i• The Youth Services Bureau wants you! 
intake Workers to assist potential clients with Opportunities abound from assisting with
~ll!ie~e ~:Q9!~; er! t~•i:;o/-~~,; 9h¢?~: ?ry£
the application process and summarize legal tirik:sipt; U~ni•+iiin; l;Joo11,qpfri;Jp1n-frpn1 ·or recreational activities for teens to giving par­
..>
problems for staff attorney review. Agency 4pm~7pm. Agency Contact:Denisc Kapsa (q1 ties for young mothers and kids. Agency Phone: 234-8121 237-7242 Contact: Kristen Michel @ 235-923 l 
ST. MARGARET'S HOUSE 
Volunteers help wilh chi.ldrcn, answer the
;::11i:1~jil!~il&~li~:fl!i[ 
..., 
phone. provide tutoring. help with computers
°J(qJµtit~f.~]t~fijt••·i~~Iijlj;~:ijif~;;§~~~~:.:t%~1~~••
hnd'.:t~rigliJh· ~f)t;Se~tj?d' garygti~gf A~~iit)i' and serve as hosts for guests. The House is ·•inj.portanL·•$etvJc(::f at(the shelter,·•·•··Agency
•111111
open to adult women and girls and boys under 
Phon1i,: 235~6229 Phone'. 433;9491 twelve. Agency Contact: Kathy Schneider @ 
234-7795 

page 4 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, October 2, 2000 

LEAD TUTOR PROGRAM 
The lead tutor program was established in an attempt to enhance the infrastructure of Notre Dame students' tutoring efforts in the South Bend community. The lead tutors oversee tutors at select area schools and com­
..... 
munity centers, working directly with the site contacts to improve the quality of tutoring offered and to improve the experience for all involved. 
If you are interested in tutoring in the South Bend area, please contact one of the following lead tutors. Transportation is provided for the times listed. 
2000-2001 LEAD TUTORS
-
CENTER FOR THE HOMELESS HARRISON {M/W 3:00-LINCOLN IT/TH 2:45-5:00pm) (M-TH 5:30-7:30pm) 5:30pm) Nikki DePersis Amanda Baker Sam Murillo 634-4252 634-4054 634-1635 
CHARLES MARTIN YOUTH JEFFERSON (M/W 2:00-ST. JOE REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER (TITH 3:30-5:00pmJ 4:00pm) CENTER BOYS AND GIRLS Katie Solie Colleen Moak CLUB AT LAFAYETTE SCHOOL 634-45 IO 634-0834 (TITH 3:45-5:45pm) 
Andy Downard CLAY HIGH SCHOOL LASALLE HIGH (M/W 9:15-634-4521 (W 2:30-5:00pml 11:15am) 
Jeremy Bauer Megan O'Connor 
634-IO 19 243-864 l 

EGGLESTON (M/W 2:10-LASALLE YOUTH CENTER RILEY HIGH SCHOOL (M/W 
3:4Spm) IM/W 4:15-6:00pmJ 2:45-5:00J 
Brian Hanafin Christopher Rupar Jaclyn Rey-Hipolito 
634-4732 287-5744 634-3 726 
Community-Based Learning Coordinators 
The Center for Social Concerns has eight formalized partnerships in the South Bend Community. The following people work closely with Notre Dame students, linking them to the educational mission of the particular agency and providing many opportunities to learn. Please contact them if you would like to volunteer at their agency or just learn more about what they do. 
2000-2001 Community-Based Learning Coordinators 
AIDS Ministry/AIDS Assist Chapin Street Clinic South Bend Community Debra Stanley Michelle Peters Schools 
P.O. Box 11582 326 S. Chapin Street Tonya Sexton South Bend, IN 46634 South Bend, IN 4660 I Center for Social Concerns 234-2870 239-5233 631-9405 
Boys and Giris Club of St. La Casa de Amistad Charles Martin Youth Joseph Adrianna Genera-Wurst Center/South Bend Heritage Kregg Van Meter 746 South Meade Foundation 502 E. Sample Street South Bend, IN 46619 Jessie Whitaker South Bend, IN 4660 I 233-2120 802 Lincoln Way West 232-2048 x2 l 02 South Bend, In 46616
Logan Center 
280-7092 -CMYCCenter for the Homeless Marissa Runkle 631-3211 -direct line Ellen Sinis 1235 N. Eddy 
813 S. Michigan P.O. Box I 049 
South Bend, IN 46601 South Bend, IN 46624 
282-8700 289-483 I 

WELCOME 
Hospitality is an important part of the Center's work on campus. Center hospitality includes: a coffeehouse and kitchen, a large multi-purpose room, seminar rooms, a resource room, a library, a reflection room, and vehicles. These facilities are available for use by approved student and community groups. Contact the Center at 631-5293 to reserve rooms for lectures, films, liturgies, meals, other gatherings, and to inquire about vehicle use. 
Center Hours 
M-F 8:00 a.m. -I0:00 p.m. Sat. noon -2:00 p.m.* Sun. 6:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m. *On home football weekends, the Center opens 2 l /2 hours before game time and closes 1/2 hour before game time. 
Please stop by! You can also reach the Center at 631­5293 or nd.cntrsc. l@nd.edu. Check out our web page at http://www.nd.edu/~ndcntrsc/ 
We look forward to meeting you! 
Student Government Service Commissioners 
Student Governement Service Commissioners provide leadership in organizing campus-wide service and social action projects. 
SUB  Tara Franco  4-1266  
Student Government  Stephanie Burum  4-2663  
Class of 2004  
Class of2003  Contact your Class President to find  
out the name of your Student  
Class of 2002  Government Service Commissioner  
Class of 2001  

"The greatest challenge ofthe day is how to bring about a revolution of the heart, a revolution which has to start with each one ofus. " 
-Dorothy Day 


T H c~ne R E .-­

Monday, October 2, 2000 page 15 
chance to pay the 'Rent' 

Soundtrack offers hits for everyone, notjust musical fans 
By MARY SPEARS  From here, the soundtrack throws several major events at  Mimi's pronunciation of "out," which sounds something like a  eventually decide that it's best to "measure in love" -some­ 
Scene Writer  listeners: it introduces them to  cat in heat that's just been run  thing that sounds trite until the  
Collins; shows Collins's first  over by a car.  listener actually hears the  
Rent is basically a modern­ meeting with his future lover  From here, the mood shifts  song. This is one of those  
day adaptation or Puccini's  Angel: and reveals that both  yet again -the life support  guilty pleasure songs that is  
opera "La Boheme" (a fact  men have AIDS (in a song  group for AIDS sufferers has  easy to like without knowing  
most dearly acknowledged in  called "You Okay Honey'?").  reached a low point. Hy the end  why.  
one of the soundtrack's best  Then, for good measure, it  of "Will I?," most of the cast is  Sadly, this is one of the few  
songs, "La Vie Boheme")_  also reveals, in a frightening  asking themselves the same  really exceptional songs in the  
The main differences are  20-second piece of stage direc•  question: "Will I lose my digni­ second act. The second act's  
that, while "La Boheme" takes  tion sung by screenwriter  ty, and will someone care?"  songs are still pleasant to listen  
place in Paris, "HcnL" is set in  Mark, that Roger's been in  It's an emotional piece. but it's  to, but they're mainly fillers - 
New York Citv, and instead of'  withdrawal for the past six  .  complicated by the approxi­ they serve expository purposes  
being oversh~dowed by tuber­ months because his girlfriend  mately 57 different people who  and don't stand alone on any  
cu Ios is as the opera is, the  sliL her wrists in the bathroom  are all singing the same part at  real aesthetic value.  
musical's characters live in the  after writing a note to Roger  different times throughout the  Luckily, the exceptions are  
shadow of AlDS.  saying, "We've got AmS."  song.  quite good-in "Without You."  
This adds poignancy to many  Depressed at being reminded  Still, it accomplishes what it  Mimi mourns her failing rela­ 
of the songs on the soundtrack,  of this, Roger decides to stay in  sets out to do ­it's depressing.  tionship with Hoger; in "I'll  
particularly the love songs  his apartment for yet another  Shortly after this, it's time for  Cover You-Reprise," Collins  
between the two sets of HIV­ night and attempt to write one  Maureen's protest. She appears  sings another encomium to  
positive lovers, Angel and  great song before he dies ("One  to be protesting attitudes  Angel; in "What You Own."  
Collins and Mimi and Roger.  Song Glory"). Bittersweet and  toward ''virtual" and "actual"  Mark and Hoger discover their  
The musical and soundtrack  evocative, "One Song Glory" is  life, condemning cyberspace  own respective inspirations and  
start off focusing on Roger and  another song that has appeal  and praising the bohemian  bitterly denounce life in  
his roommate, Mark. Through  for a large audience, and is  lifestyle. Unfortunately, it  Ameri1,;a at the end of the mil­ 
a series of short pieces at the  performed with great emotion  doesn't quite perform as  lennium: and in "Your E,Y.es."  
beginning of the soundtrack  by the original Boger, actor  expected -it functions less as  Roger finally gives listeners the  
the listener discovers that  Adam Pascal.  a satire on the modern techno­ song he's been trying to write  
Hoger's "going through with·  Ma'rk's neighbor Mimi, a  logical lifestyle than as one on  for a year -a song about  
drawal," having not played his  dancer. makes an appearance  over-pretentious, "artsy"  Mimi.  
belowd guitar in half a year  and asks for a light ­her heat  protests like itself.  Finally, after two compact  
and that Mark's girlfriend just  has just been turned off -in  Howrwer, this barb at  discs and just over two hours of  
left him for a new lover named  "Light My Candle." The two  bohemia is overshadowed by  music, the soundtrack is fin­ 
Joanne. The two roommates  d iscoYer information about  the next song, probably the  ished. Despite lyrics that are  
are also a year behind on renl.  each other through an amusing  best one on the compact disc.  sometimes a bit trite Oike the  
This provides the lead in for  conversation set to music.  "La Vie Boheme" celebrates the  very last song of the second  
a great rock song, "Rent," .in  Roger and Mimi are clearly  sentiments, people and ideals  act). for the most part, "Bent"  
which Hoger and Mark burn  attracted to each other. and thP  encompassed in the bohemian  rises above a typical musical.  
things for warmth and try to  en<l of' the song leaves the  lifestyle -everything from  In fact. it reminds listeners  
think oC how they·re going to  f'u tu re of th cir relationship  Pab Io N e ru d a to Pee Wee  more of the Who's "Tommy" or  
pay an entirC' year's rent.  open.  Herman to things unmention­ perhaps "Jesus Christ  
"Hcnt" is the first of many  After these relatively light­ able in The Observer.  Superstar" than a typical musi•  
songs that on the soundtrack  hearted songs. the compact  The second compact disc,  cal at all -it's more of a rock  
that can not only stand alone,  disc bricOy takes a more sub­ encompassing the music of the  opera than anything else.  
independent or the plot, but  dued turn in the form or an  second act, contains much  Still, this soundtrack, amus­ 
also appeal to even sworn  affirmation by a support group  fewer standout songs than the  ing at some times and poignant  
haters of musicals. It has an  for AIDS sufferers.  first. However, the opening  at others, and with such great  
actual rhythm and, backerl as  The album switches back to  song, "Seasons of Love," is one  music is a must-have for all  
it is with an electric guitar riff,  an amusing song when Mimi  of these standout songs. In it,  fans of the play, and also a  
sounds like a song that could  sings to Boger in a song called  the cast ponders how to mea­ good addition to the collection  
conceivably be released on a  "Out Tonight." The song is  sure a year -it's all some of  of people who aren't familiar  
modern ro1,;k station.  amusing mostly because or  them have left to live. They  with "Rent" at all.  


page 16 Monday, September 25, 2000
The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Rak, Welsh Family shut out Pangborn 35-0 
By MARIAH QUINN and LIA 
MILHOAN 
Spurts Wrire:u 
Welsh fiumily won the inter­hall championshps last year, and judging from tlrnir 35-0 drubbing of Pangborn Ila!! this past Thursday. they may well be setting up for a repeat. 
Welsh wasted no time, scor­ing on tlw first possession as quarterback Katie Hak threw a long pass that found Jen Grubb. who scored af'tt!r elud­ing two defenders, to put vVl'lsh up 6-0. 
"We wanted to set the tone early and take the momentum from the first snap." Whirlwind Vanessa Lichon said. 
Welsh showecl there offen­sive versatility with their next TD, as Hak combined with Alex Callan on an option play that, after a two-point conversion, brought the score to 14-0. 
Pangborn was stymied by the Welsh defense in their efforts to bring the ball up the field, repeatedly having to resort to punting. 
Hak and Grubb combined again for the third touchdown on a smooth triple reverse play that put Welsh out of the Phoxes reach. up 22-0. 
The high point of' the game for Pangborn was an intercep­tion by Katrina Paulson late in the first half, but it was to no avail as Lichon returned the favor and intercepted a Pangborn pass and returned it for a 6<)-yard touchdown. 
The Whirlwinds rounded out the scoring as Hak found Lichon for the fifth and final touchdown or the evening. 
Pangborn is looking to devel­op a solid base for next years team. "Obviously there's room for improvement on all f'acets of our game. We're focusing on fundamentals," captain Erin 

Piroutek said. 
The Whirlwinds are assured 
of a playoff spot but are not 
overconfident. 
"The thing about the playoffs is that our record means noth­ing," Bak said. "Everyone starts l'rom square one." 
Added Lichon: "We are lucky because almost our whole team has playoff experience. something very valuable as we head into our final month of the season." 
Welsh mav well round out the season ·without a single loss. and Callan attributed their success lo their mantra of "one game at a timc." 
Hak concurred adding. ''We have to play every game as l'ocused as the next. We need to correct the mistakes we have made and just keep improving." 
The defending champs can be seen on Stepan Field Thursday at 7 p.m. versus the Howard Ducks, while Pangborn will look for its first win against Lewis at 8 p.m. 
Cavanaugh 13, Howard 0 
Cavanaugh used key offen­sive plays to support an aggressive defensive effort and recorded a 13-0 win over Howard Hall on Thursday night. 
With the victory Cavanaugh improves to 3-0 on the season­while lloward drops to 2-2 overall. 
"Cavanaugh played a great game," Howard coach Brad Untiedt said. "They made a couple big plays and that was the difference in the ball­game." 
Each team made strong runs toward the end zone in the first half but fell short as the first half ended 0-0. 
But in the second half Cavanaugh got on the board with just under 9 minutes left. 
The drive began when 

Cavanaugh intercepted Jill Veselik's pass at their own 17­yard line and ran it back to the 38. 
Cavanaugh quarterback Lynn Olszowy threw to Megan Laird to give the Chaos a 6-0 lead. 
Howard made a strong march into Cavanaugh territo­ry but was unable to convert on fourth down due to strong Cavanaugh pressure. 
With under a minute remain­ing, Lynn Olszowy threw a 40­yard pass to Melissa Marcotte who ran the ball in for a touchdown. 

Cavanaugh completed a one­point conversion to give Cavanaugh a 13-0 victory. 
Although held scoreless, Howard wide receiver Elizabeth Klimek was steady all game and quarterback Jill Velesik scrambled for yards and led a steady offensive effort. 
Megan Myers and Brigette Alge both hauled in intercep­tions !'or Cavanaugh, which has had interceptions in all three games. 
Although the offense has come through with big plays, the defense remains unscored upon so f'ar this season. 
"Our offensive line played great," coach Bart Bruckert said. "We have a solid defense and we're looking forward to playing Welsh.''. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit
CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
BUY/SELL ND TICKETS That Pretty Place, Bed and EXPANDING INTERNET COMPA-1991 lzuzu Stylus. Runs Great. Coll : the 4 hours was worth it. Just 273-3911 Breakfast Inn has space available NY SEEKS PEOPLE INTERESTED 105K, manual, A/C, stereo, PIS. wanted you to have an update. But 
LOST & FOUND for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms IN EARNING PART-TIME OR Must sell. $2200. O/b/o. 219-271-I'll be joining the cross-country trek ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED with private baths, $80-$115, FULL-TIME INCOME. EASY 5623 or altman3@nd edu club soon. Do I have to fill out a AM 232-2378 Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. MONEY. NO EXPERIENCE NEC-membership form? Let me know LOST ND-PU WEEKEND -OUR PM. 288-2726 Toll Road, Exit 11107, 1-800-418-ESSARY. CONTACT DREW AT Beautiful brass bed, queen size, PURDUE FLAG WAS LOST IN 9487. 273-1998 OR Bill AT 251-1362 with orthopedic mattress set and Who let the dogs out? Put the poor 
THE PARKING LOT ON THE SOUTH SIDE OF EDISON ROAD. NO FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE THE 6 FT. X 10 FT. FLAG WAS AM. 232-2378 HANO SEWN BY MY WIFE. NO PM 288-2726 
QUESTIONS ASKED. PLEASE DROP OFF AT THE OBSERVER OFFICE BASEMENT OF SOUTH BUY/SELL N.D. FOOTBALL TIX. DINING HALL HOME&AWAY. THANK YOU VERY M JCH (219) 289-8048 
NO STUDENT CONVERSION TIX NEEDED 
TICKETS 

Dad needs 2 tix to Stanford game! Ckrosey@mindspring.com 
WANTED ND FOOTBALL TKTS 2 NO/USC TIX+ AIRFARE! 289-9280 GOTO alumnind edul-ndc_satx 
ATTENTION Paying $50.00 per  For Sale: Football Tickels  
ticket for last 3 home games No  All Games  
student conversions wanted (219)  272,7233  
289-8048.  
Need 2 tickets for family  
Call laura at 634-3743  
SELLING  
ND FOOTBALL TKTS  
251-1570  FOR RENT  


VICTORY TKTS ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE BUY'SELL 'TRADE AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS ND FOOTBALL http://mmmrentalshomepage.com/ 232-0964 email:mmmrentals@aol.com www.victorytickets cor, 232·2595 2 BR, 2nd fir. Apt. 525/mo Along St. Joe River Incl. Water/Sec. Systirrash 288-2654 or 288-2788 
NICE HOME AVAILABLE NOW NORTH OF NO [ROSELAND] 277­3097. 
3, 4 & 5-bedroom alumni-owned homes for rent. Call Jason @ 240­0322 for homes close to campus. 
WANTED 
Christian tamily in need of upbeat caregiver for 18-mo.--old boy in our home near campus. Flex. Hours & great pay Call Sharyl at 237-0911. 
Help! Staffer needs to rent condo/guest house/room 1n Pasedena, CA General area for New Year6s holiday period (12-27 to 1-2) My son is marching in the Rose Bowl Parade! Would consider hosting your family for the USC2001 game, tickets included, ND tans only! Please email tdatod@aolcom or call 259-7544, as tor Tina. Thanks 
deluxe lrame. All new, never used, dogs to sleep already! Computer tutor in my home. still in plastic. $235. 219-862-2082. $10+/hr. Microsoft Front Page, Web Woof, Woof, Woof, Woof, Woof! design. Flex 12+ hrs/wk. Free col-1992 CHEVY LUMINA, GREAT feel!! 273-0205. CONDITION. $3,500; 272-4776. Stina, good job in your races. You 
are a superstar! WILL BUY USED CARS CALL 272­4776. Chuk, Mike was added to the list 
PERSONAL 

because he's No.1. All No.1 s HAVE FOOSBALL: Wanted high-level to be on the Best Friend list. When players for tun or$. 257-4441 in Impress potential employers. you're No.1, you can join. But I still evenings Ask for D. Keep in contact with friends and rel-like the phone messages. 
atives. Shift Mgr University Park Mall Student "business" cards are now So I guess he's kinda on by default. Auntie Anne's Pretzles up to 58, available at 20·30 hrs. call Pat or Kathy 219-THE COPY SHOP Okay ladies. Two words. GO 271-8740 Lafortune Student Center BELLES. 
631-COPY M'Shan, ii you're reading this, the Belles upheld tradition. We are still
FOR SALE 

High-Speed Copies, Color Copies, No.1 at cups. 
Binding, Fax Service, R ;.,um;::,, SPRING BREAK 2001 -Jamaica, Business Cards, Laminating & With little to no competition, might I Cancun, Barbados, More. Hiring Morel add. Except from the domestic/half Campus Reps -2 Free Trips! Free at Belles learn. Nice job ladies. Meals-Book by 1113. THE COPY SHOP Call 1-800-426-7710 LaFortune Student Center Nell, we'll induct you any day of the or sunsplashtours. com. Phone 631 ·COPY week. 
Free Pick-Up & Delivery Yamaha MOB digital 8-track rec. hey buddy minidiscs are inc. What will you wish you had cap• $750 OBO CD qua!. rec. lured on tape? what is up ex!. Cond. kid call Pat 287-7369. www icecoldvideo.com 
Something for 
every 

one of 
your 

9,000 tastebuds. 
Introducing the new 99C BK CRAVERS™ Menu. 
NEW MENU ITEMS 
• Finger Foods -Mozzarella Cheese Sticks 
Pt,I 

-JALAPENO POPPERS® 




page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, October 2, 2000 

in 
a,ppl.icar-Jo
•"-:t, ~~ 
• 
~~~r & 
tlVark in an internship ~
• ...,~ Fall 2001 ~­
~,tudy Public Affairs 1-=-ulfill Fine Arts Requirement
• Spring 2002 
Deadline -Nov. 101-h 
...MlosJaiagt.oJi-Semester,P.,SJgram 
Open to studeuts from ALL Colleges 
Come to the informational meeting Monday, October 2nd 
7:30 p.m. 118 O'ShaL1ghnessy 
Prof. Peri Arnold, Director 346 O'Shaugh1-iessy Peri.E.Arnold.1 @nd.ed\.1 



continued from page 28 
lhey'II need to get used too. 
"Everyone is going to do this," Waldrum said. "Teams are just going to be that way. We just need to have some patience." 
The relatively easy nature or both victories allowed Waldrum to rest some play­ers and get others some valu­able playing time. 
"We needed to rest some 

players," Waldrum said. 
Perhaps the only sour note in an otherwise sweet week­end for the Irish was an injury sustained by freshman sensation Amy Warner. Warner injured her knee in the first half against Seton Hall but continued playing. Waldrum held her out Sunday as a precautionary measure. The true extent or the injury will not be known until later today when Warner will be examined by specialists. Warner was mov­ing gingerly on the her heavi­ly wrapped leg after the Hutgers game, and speculat­ed that the injury might be her ACL. Losing Warner for any significant period of time would be detrimental to an offense that relies heavily on her speed. 
"We'll know more tomor­row," Waldrum said. "To me it didn't seem too serious." 
Any serious injury to Warner could be a serious blow to a team that has already demonstrated itself as a serious contender for the national title. 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
score up at two goals each. 
After the quick breakout of offense, the game looked head­ed towards overtime as scoring slowed down until the 78:'.B mark, when Barton took assists from Porter and Mark Sikora and put the ball past Tait fur the ucciding point. 
With less than five minutes 
remaining, Irish l'rc.sbman 
Justin Detter had possession 
inside the Pittsburgh box 
before being pushed down by a 
Panther player. The referee, 
who had given Irish defender 
Andy Forstner a yellow card 
earl.icr in the game fur a simi­
lar play, made no call and let 
play continue. 
Despite Apple's repeated appeals towards the referee to come over to the Irish bench and discuss the play. the refer­ee appeared oblivious and let the cluck run down while trouncing Notre Dame's final opportunity tu send the game into overtime. 
Despite the problems with the officiating, Apple feels that the truly disturbing aspect of the game for the Irish was their defensive play. 
"We weren't scoring goals, so our training concentration switched towards the attack," explained Apple following the loss. "I expect those guys in the back to be mature enough to keep that discipline that we've trained for the past four weeks and remember those things that we've learned. Its like a comprehensive exam. you have to retain that infor­mation." 
Bather than continuing th,~ solid defensive play that allowed the Irish to outshout ranked Bradley and Connecticut, thn defense gave up three goals for only the sec­ond time this season. /\pple focls that Urn performance was a step away from the defensive mentality that has boon suc­cessful for the Irish this sea­son. 
"I was a little frustrated with those guys. I felt like our defense took a stnp backwards against Pittsburgh," said Apple. "We let in soft goals in my opinion. Those guys have to be better; they have to be more mature. They can't take backwards and expect us to win." 
The game was played in front or a significantly larger crowd than previous home games, partly due to a promo­tion the team put on earlier in the day for the fans. Tait and follow goalkeeper Cole Straub manned a goal in front of South Dining Ilall during the afternoon, allowing fans to take shots on the two goalies. Haffle tickets and schedules were passed out, with prizes given out during half'time. 
Also during halftime, chil­dren competed in a goal-kick­iug contest. After the chil­dren's contest, two Notre Dame students competed in the "long-kick" competition, with Keough llall sophomore Dan Beissel claiming a $25 Chili's gift certificate for his punt that sailed past the mid­field. 
"The promotion was awe­some," said Apple. "The stu­dents seemed to have a lot of fun. Our guys had a lot or fun. Knott Ilall came out in f'orcc." 


Anything Is Possible 
This is where the generation of new ideas lives. 
Because we've built a global network of people who see possibilities where others see confusion and risk -and who know how to turn those possibilities into realities. And by working at internet speed -propelling dozens of companies and millions of investors into the 
new economy. 
We are propelling careers all over the world. 
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter invites you to our Firmwide Presentation at Notre Dame. 
Monday, October 2nd 7:00 p.m. Center for Continuing Education 
McKenna HaII 
MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER 
Careers at Morgon Stanley Deon Witter star!@msdw.com/career/recruiling Morgan Stanley De(1n Wit!ei is on Equal Opporlunily Employer commilled lo woikforce diversity. Morgon Stanley Dean Willer is a service mark ol Morgan Stanley Deon Witter & Co. 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, October 2, 2000 
HOCKEY 
Blue t(iefeats Gold 3-2 in cancer fund raiser 
By MATT ORENCHlJK 
Sports W rirer 
The solid goaltending of Jcrnmiah Kimento led the way for the Blue squad as it defeat­ed its gold counterparts 3-2 in the Notre 
I) a m e h o c k e y Blue/Gold game for cancer. 
E v e n 

m o r e 
important 
than the 

Kiimento

training for the season. however, was lhe money the game raised for cancer research, the team said. 
The game raised more than $3,500 dollars and was dedi­cated to Maine hockey coach Shawn Walsh. Beforn the game each player was announced along with the name of a family member or friend who had can­ccr. 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Oaklar1d clinches AL 
West with 3-0 victory 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. 

Jason  Giambi  had  three  
words  for  the  New  York  
Yankees.  
"Uring  them  on!"  he  

exclaimed in the champagne­drenched Oakland clubhouse after the Athletics clinched the AL West title and a first­round playoff series against the two-time World Series champions. 
Tim lludson earned his 20th victory. beating the Texas Hangers 3-0 Sunday in the regular-season finale. 
It was scoreless until Ramon llernandez hit an RBI double in the seventh, and Randy Velarde and Olmedo Saenz each added solo home runs in the eighth. 
The A's, who will go to the playoffs for the firf;t time since 1992. join Atlanta as the only teams with 11 division titles. 
After the game, the A's spilled onto the field in cele­bration. Matt Stairs and some of his teammates hoisted Giambi on their stoulders and paraded him before the sell­out crowd, which chanted "MVP1 MVP!" 
Giambi batted .400 in September with 13 hom1i runs and 32 BBi. The last Oakland player with that many home runs in a month was Mark McGwire in July, 1996. 
Although he ,/\las hitless Sunday, Giambi had 43 home runs and 137 HBI this season. 
"I can't even describe this," Giambi said, soaked in cham­pagne aftnr the game :ind dwarfed by a the swarm of reporters and television cam­eras around him. "There are no words t'or this. I mean, it's been incredible coming to the ballpark every day. My broth­er (Jemmy) is playing with me. It's unbelievable" 
With the victory, the 

"Everyone has had someone who had cancer, and these players put a lot of' thought into selecting who they would be playing for." Irish head coach Uave Poulin said. 
The game started off quickly as senior Chad Chipchase put the Blue squad on the board exactly two minutes into the game·with a soft· shot that barely went past Gold squad goalie Tony Zasowski. After that lhe defenses took over for both squads, and there was very little offensive action on the ice. 
With 1 :31 left in the first peri­od Matt Van Arkel put one past Zasowski. and the Blue went into intermission leading 2-0. The scrimmage featured two 22-minute periods rather than the usual three 20-minute peri­ods. 
The second period loosened things up a bit as both squads began to get more offensive action. Penalty shots played an important role in the second period scoring. 
Athletics avoided a trip to Tampa Bay for a makeup game Monday and got extra time to prepare for the play­offs. Oakland's game at 
Tampa Bay  on  Sept. 18  was  
postponed  because  of  
Hurricane Gordon.  

The Cleveland Indians beat Toronto 11-4 earlier in the day, preventing the A's from clinching a playoff spot prior to their game. 
The A's started the day with a half-game lead over Seattle in the AL West. The Mariners clinched the wild card with by beating Anaheim 5-2. 
There had been talk that manager Art Howe would hold Hudson (20-6) if Cleveland lost, but the he decided Saturday night he would start his ace no matter what. 
Candidate Pr1ormes Social Ju.sflce Campalgn Issues Catholic Social Teachings 
Your rellglous values
~
CIVIC pcrtf::;: + 
Nader 
~ Bush Buchanan 

Election Workshop 200Q: 
Going to the Voting Booth as Persons of Faith 
Pr•••nt•d by: NETWORK, a National Catholic Soclal Ju•tlea Lobby 
Where: Debartolo 141 
W hen: M on day 1 0 /2, 4:3 0 pm 
Spo ¦ sorell By: TIie CSC and ti•• Co ¦ centratlon In Cat•ollc Socia I Teaclll ¦ 9• 

In tho format for the game penalty shots three minutes penalties were not served by apart to pull the Gold squad the players. Instead. a penalty within a goal. The last 10 min­shot was given to the other utes saw the game return to the team. The Blue squad used this stiff defensive play of the first to their advantage when Paul period, and the Blue squad pre­Harris shot past Kyle Kolquist, vailed. who relpaced Zasowski in the Poulin was pleased with the second period, to give Blue a 3-overall performance of his 0 lead. team. especially the quickness 
"I saw an opening on the of his defensemen. near side, did a little toe drag "l was looking for individual move. and put it past Kyle parts of the system that we [Kolquistl." IIarris said. could put in place, especially 
The Gold was not about to be from our freshmen." Poulin embarrassed by its Blue squad said. "The game was a valuable counterparts. Brett Henning experience for the goalies since and Aaron Gill both scored on they hadn't seen a lot of shots 
i7 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTER",ATIONAL STUDY PROGR<\..MS 
l . 201 SECURITY BUILDING Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
T: 631-5882 Fnx: 631-5711 
-
J 

ROME 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Professor Michael Francis, Assistant Provost Campus International Development 
in practice." 
The Blue/Gold game replaces the hockey team's annual Sk run. which took place the past three years. This year the hock­ey team decided to go back to doing what they do best in order to raise the money. The players also got the benefit of having to face some game situ­ations before their f'irsl game next weekend, and work on their conditioning. 
"It beats running," Kimento said. 
The Irish start off their sea­son Saturday against Minnesota with the Hall of Fame game. 

Tuesday October 3, 2000 
4:45 PM 102 DeBartolo 


Monday, October 2, 2000 The Observer . ADVERTISEMENT page 21 




• 
OIIl 

• 
• 
I 


• 
• 
I 


-
• 

It really is that easy. Free, too. 
http://www.nd.edu/ ~observer OBSERVER 
online classifieds 
1 
'I 
I 
. j 
r-------------------------------------------------­
Monday, October 2, 2000 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
VOLLEYBALL 
Irish make quick work of Wildcats, Boyas 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame vol!Pyball team toµµcd Villanova. and CPorgetown lo mov11 to an undefnated 2-0 in Big EasL play. 
"I think it was a good start to our 
Big East season. said junior Marcie Bomhack. "-Overall 

we did a IKreher good jou this weekend but tlrnro's always room for improvement and with the Big East teams I think that we could beat them a little better." The Irish. 11-4 on the sea­son. dominated the Wildcats ( 15-5, 15-2. 15-Y) Friday in games one and two of the matd1 before al lo wing Villanova to take the lead at 6­2 in game three The Irish came back strong to earn the win. 

Notre Dame has an unde­feated record against the -Wildcats with eight previous 
wins over Villanova. The Wildcats are now at 6-10 on the 2000 season. 
Notre Dame combined for a .351 hitting percentage against the Wildcats while senior co-captain Christi 

Ginon racked up eight kills Lo lead the Irish. Junior Kristy Krcher added seven while freshman Jessica Kinder's seven kills were a career high. 
The Irish dominated Georgetown in a three-game sweep (15-8. 15-6. 15-8) Sunday. With eleven past matches against the Iloyas, Georgetown holds only one win in a 1999 Big East tourna­ment upset over the Irish (15­11. 15-10, 15-8). 
"I think that Georgetown is one of the best teams in the conference, but in the Big East we know that we're the team to beat," Bomhack said. "We need to make sure that we stay the team to beat and end up undefeated in the Big East." 
The Irish defense held the Iloyas to a .071 hitting per­centage with 14 blocks. Jo Jamcyson and Malinda Goralski combined for 12 of the blocks. Denise Boylan ted Notre Dame with 41 ,tssists, nine digs and four kills. Girton totaled 16 kills while Bomhack racked up 12 kills and 12 digs. Krcher added 11 kills and 10 digs. 
"I think we did a really good job running offense, but we could work on putting teams away when we have the chance and closing up match­es," Bomhack said. 
Notre Dame travels to Pittsburgh and West Virginia this weekend. 

NE"\JV ! ! ! ! ! ! 
~,~ 
~&I~ 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME'S 
LONDON 
SUlVllVlER PROGRAlVllVlE 
STARTING SUMMER 2001 
Four and a half -weeks for six hours of academic credit (May 17 to June 17) 
-1.NFO~ATION~EETING: 
Tuesday, October 3, 2000 7:00PM 
Location: Center for Social Concerns Coffee Lounge 
(Those interested in Sunz,ner 2002 are also invited) 
Or call 1-5203 (International Studies Office) for an application and prograin information. 
Monday, October 2, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
Doping scandals overshadow Olympic performances 
The Olympics couldn't have ended sooner. 
Not because I think the sports are stale or because they let pro­fessionals compete now. Not even because the only coverage we could watch here was of tape­delayed events that happened sometime during exams last May. 
In fact, I really wanted to watch Marion Jones and Maurice Greene run the finals of the 100 meters. even though I knew earlier in the day that they both had already won. 
But I was ready to see these Olympics go because I couldn't take much more of the govern­ing body of the games, the International Olympic Committee (IOCJ, or the media covering the events. 
Going into Sydney, most peo­ple knew of Marion Jones's well­publicized goal of winning five gold medals in track and field, something that's never been done before. 
Shortly after she won gold number one in the 100 meters, reports surfaced that her hus­band and world champion shot putter, C.J. Hunter, had failed four tests for performance­enhancing drugs since July. 
Big news, right? 
It was, but only should have been if Hunter had even planned on competing in the Olympics. His only reason for going to Sydney, however, was to support his wife. He decided before the 

Ted Fox 
Fox Sports ... 
Almosl 

games even started not to com­pete due to a knee injury. 
And all of this, of course, assumes lhal he even did some­thing wrong. 
Just look at gymnast Andreea Raducan. She won lhe gold medal in the all-around competi­tion before the IOC discovered her great transgression -taking an over-the-counter cold med­ication from the team doctor that contained traces of a banned substance. 
She took something to treat a cold. and the IOC took her gold medal, even though they acknowledged the treatment gave her no advantage over the other gymnasts. 
JI' banned substances can be found in cold medicine, and if 
C.J. Hunter did in fact test posi­tive four times, doesn't it make you wonder if he even knew he was taking them'? 
lt's now well documented that traces of performance-enhanc­ing drugs can be found in any­thing from Raducan·s cold medi­cine to nutritional supplements that don't list all their ingredi­ents. Many expect the latter in Hunter's situation. 
Hunter himself made the point that in 10 years of throwing the shot put. his distance has increased by only six inches. That's not exactly the mark of someone reaping the benefits of a banned substance. 
He cried through his press conference, telling everyone he didn't know how he tested posi­tive but that he planned on figur­ing out how it could've hap­pened. 
According to the IOC, it doesn't matter how the drugs got there, even when the circumstances of the "doping" situation are ridicu­lous. 
I use the word "doping" because that seems to be the favorite buzzword of every writer covering the Olympics. "Doping" scandals involve peo­ple knowingly doing hard drugs, whether they be steroids or heroin. They don't involve ath­letes unknowingly depositing junk in their blood streams. 

If reporters aren't buzzing about doping, they're asking ath­letes still on the field of play whether or not they used a banned substance. 
"Congratulations on winning your gold medal" is usually an afterthought. 
The public's right to know has turned into our right to get sick. Yes, the sports world needs to be monitored to prevent abuses that not only hurt the games but, far more importantly. the ath­letes involved. Investigative reporting plays an invaluable role in this. 
But no, I didn't need to see people try to bring down Hunter's name when he wasn't even competing, just like I don't need to hear about Pete Rose betting on baseball every time he's in public. 
Since it's very possible Hunter could have tested positive for an innocent reason, why not give him a chance to prove that before hurting both him and his wife? It's not like the shot put event was being compromised by him watching. 
I also didn't need to see a 15­year-old Raducan lose her Olympic gold medal amidst a "doping" scandal just because 
-

she had a runny nose. If that's the standard, I would like to for­feit my section football team's tie last Thursday because I played after taking, yes, cold medicine my mom sent me. 
There was some consolation, at least for Hunter. His wife didn't win five golds, but Marion Jones did get three along with two bronze, becoming the first woman to ever win five medals in track and field in one Olympics. 
Still, I hope Andreea Raducan gets her medal back. I hope C.J. Hunter makes his accusers look foolish, both in fact and how they pursued the case. 
As for the IOC and those who create "doping" scandals? I hope they get their priorities straight. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofth author and not necessariy those of The Observer. 

YOU CAN KNOCK OUT THOSE "FRESHMEN 151" 
HAVE WEIGHT WATCHERS COME TO YOU WITH OUR NEW ON CAMPUS PROGRAM. 
Yout i:uj>er--convenient dt98tn diet ftom II nams you ftui:t is: corning to fJott8 Dame[ 

onc:itn~~11®w-wrnl.com

pf/"~~ 
IC ZOOO Weight Watoben Intmtatioaal, Inc., owner of WEIGHT WATCHERS irademar\:. All righis «served.· 
Monday, October 2, 2000


Monday, October 2, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Britons dominate Belles 7-0 in conference play 

The TIAA-CREF Advantage. 
Year in and year out, empb;ees at edu~atior'. and research institutions have tu~ned to TIAA-CREF. And for good reasons: 
• 
Easy diversification among a range of ex;:iertly managed funds 

• 
A so!id history of performance ano exceptional personal mv1ce 

• 
1\ strong commitment to low expenses 

• 
P:us, a full range ')f flexible retirement income options 


For der:ades, TIAA-CRE1: has nelped professors and staff 
at over 9,000 c::impuses across the country invest for­
and enJoy-successful retirements. 
Choosing your retirement plan provider 1s simple. 
By ALICLA ORTIZ Sports Writer 
The Albion College Britons 
used its home field advantage 
to ring the Belles to the tune 
of a 7-0 shutout Friday. 
"We came out flat today," 
forward Heather Muth said. 
"Albion is a strong team," 
Muth said. "They would have 
been beatable any other day." 
The Belles began the game 
defending their zone, and 
throughout the match never 
really made it to the other side 
of the field to mount an offen­
sive effort. 
A solid start helped the Brits 
to an early lead with strong 
support from their offensive 
line. Breaking out early was a 
challenge for the Belles. 
"We need to start strong," 
Bolles head coach Jason 
Milligan said. 
"[Albion] had the ball in the 
net at the beginning of the 
game." 

A solid start helped the 
Brits, while they also had an 
impressive offensive line. 
However, the fact that 
Albion is top in the MIM was 
just a contributing factor in 
the Belles loss. 
"We have injuries, everyone 
is stressed, and we are losing 
to teams we could beat," 
Belles forward Shawna 
Jiannoni said. "We are at a 
point in our season where we 
are all a little discouraged." 
There were small victories . in the game. Tia Kapphahn 
made 9 saves after starting in 
goal for the Belles and fresh­
man Laura Metzger made 11 
saves. 

"We are working on keeping the team morale up," Jiannoni said. "Once that happens and the chemistry goes up, we will click as a team, and we will win." 
The Belles used the match against the Britons to realize their weaknesses. They hope to use the knowledge gained in this game to continue to build the 2000 Belles squad into a formidable team, said coaches and players. 
"We need to work on assert­ing ourselves in the lirst half," Belles assistant coach Jared Hochstettler said. "We always seem to play better in the first half." 
The squad looks to turn the tables at home later in the season, where they will face off against Albion for a second time. 
"I am looking foreward to playing them at home," Muth said. "I think we can definitely give them a good game." 
Although they failed to gain a win, the Belles felt that the experience gained in the loss against top-ranked Albion will be helpful in the future. 
"I do not think that the score reflected how we played," Belles midfielder Lynn Taylor ... said. 
"This game showed us that we are still working on playing as a team," junior midfielder Adrian Kirby said. "But we are improving in every game." 
The Britons remain unde­feated and at the top of the MIAA standings with a 6-0 record. The Belles now have a record of 2-3-1 in the MIM. Their next game is at Hope College on Oct. 4. 
Callus for 
.. afree·•· .
rnfprn,ation
package.··•··•• 

ONlr rou CAN ~!EVENT FOIESf FIIES. 
www.t111olleyb•1r,coa 
2000-2001 Season Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 

oodnight 
(j)£4denw.na 
(Good Morning 
~) 
by Anne-Marie MacDonald 
A comedy of alchemic proportions 
Directed by Wendy Arons 
Wednesday, Oct. 4 ...... 7:30 pm Thursday, Oct. 5 .......... 7:30 pm Friday, Oct. 6 .............. 7:30 pm Saturday, Oct. 7 .......... 7:30 pm Sunday, October 8 ...... 2:30 pm 
Playing at Washington Hall Reserved Seats $9 • Seniors $8 • Students $6 
Tickets are available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. 
For MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631-8128 


page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, October 2, 2000 
WOMEN'S T'ENNIS 

Irish have impressive showing at Eck Classic 

Berica Day and Michelle Ilamilton, who 
both advanced to thn l'inals in their 
respective flights. 
"The teams were a lot stronger in this tournament than last week, but w11 played better than we have in the past in doubles," said Miclrnllc Ilamilton, ·who along with partnnr Day dPf'cated Shnlby Lipson and lfrigt1tln Zaraznc> 
f'rom Illinois State 9-7. 
"We have been \Vorking on doubles 

recently and I think we can continue to 
improve on that in the future," 1Iamilton 
said. · 
Nina Vaughan and Alicia Salas beat 

doubles teams from Northwestern, 
Marquette. and Wisconsin before they 
took on Colville and Chinwah from 
Western Michigan in the final. Colvilll1 
and Chinwah, who 

from Indianapolis and "I think overall it was a beat Notre Dame's comes from a long line good weekend/or the Katie Cunha and Kim or Notre Dame gradu­Guy in the semi-finals,
team."
ates, finished fifth in edged out Vaughan 
the flight B doubles and Salas 8-4 in their and had a consolation Emily Neighbours match on Sunday. win in the 11ight C sin­Vaughan, who is
women's tennis player 
By STEVE KEPPEL 
Sports Writer 

With no Notre Dame football game this weekend the South Bend athletic focus switched temporarily to women's tennis as the Irish hosted the Eck Classic at the Courtney Tennis Center. 
The Notre Dame wcimcn·s tennis team played well this wr.ekend considering they were without top players Michelle Dasso and Becky Varnum and were fac­ing some or the top teams in the coun­trv. 
·..1 think overall it was a good weekend for the team," freshman Emily NPighbours said. "We rose to the chal­lenge and played pretty well." 
Neighbours, who is 
g I es. After having a tough match on the opening clay Neighbours turned things around and won the rest of her matches on Saturday and Sunday. 
"I had a little disappointment on Friday," Neighbours said. "But I feel good that I was able to rebound and fin­ish undefeated the rest of the weekend." 
The doubles teams, which seemed to be the weak spot last week in Baltimore, rose to the challenge and came out tough this weekend. 
The tournament was highlighted for the Irish by the play of Nina Vaughan and freshman Alicia Salas and juniors from Corona Del Mar, 
CA, had an impressive 

tournament in singles as well. She ended up placing third in Flight A singles by del'eating freshman teammate Caylan Leslie. Vaughan, a junior, is coming off a 20-win season in doubles and is looking to establish her­self as one of the lrish's top players. 
Freshman Alicia Salas, who advanced to the finals for the second time in her short career on Sunday, has played very well in her first collegiate tournaments. Salas, a four-time singles state champi­on in high school, looks to be improving each week and hopes to get her first finals victory sometime soon. 

Monday October 2, 2000 
The Observer . TODAY page 27 
TOM KEELEY

FOURTH AND INCHES 
BILL AMEND

Fox TROT 
PAt&E, I HATE To TEtL '\'OU 1HIS, UT GUINC 
I'M WAITING FoR THE PART 'YOU HAli To TELL ME. 
MOM'S ALJ.lEADY CLEANED 
TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 


'I 
r 

When worlds collide. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Tropical plant 56 Academic 1 A property may with a trunklike enclave have one on it stem 59 Not yours or 32 Military capability theirs
5 Sound of a fall 10 Robed 
35 Stead 60 Swab the deck 36 Polite turndown again14 Singer Arnold 37 Russian orbiter 61 Old piano tunes15 Piece of garlic 38 Ship navigation 62 Ibsen's"16 Tiptop aid Gynt" ­

17 NATO's first 
39 Uzbekistan's 63 Tickle pink supreme Sea 64 Fortuneteller'scommander 40 Leafy shelter opening19 Bone parallel to 42 Massachusetts'sthe radius nickname 

DOWN

20 Stage actress 44 H20 at 0° 
Caldwell 1 Host Gibbons 
45 Radio amateurs 2 Numbskull21 General Motors 46 Stranger in a 

line, for short 3 1950's Ford flop 
strange land? 22 Deodorant type 4 Bill_, the
50 Win back one's 24 They'll show losses 
Science Guy 5 Lug around 

you the world 53 Lions and tigers 26 Done, in Dijon 54 Cause for 6 Walks like a workhorse
27 Dickens's sudden death orphan in "Great 55 "There oughta 7 Areas on Expectations" be !" weather maps 
8 "_Maria" 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Wirehair, e.g. 10 It has a big SCAREDOF ~~ 
K A R A T  E B  A R  11 Hang (around)  
N T  12  Domini  
13 University V.1.P.  
18 More  
meddlesome  
11111r.,.,+.,.+:B:-1  23 It's next to  
L  nothing  

1-=1-=-+-::+-::+.,.,+:E::-1 25 Spring event 26 "_Jacques" (children's song) .......-~ 28 Bale binder ~~.;.;.i.,;.;,,i...;..i.;.:.i.:..:.i..:-'-=.-...:..i~.::..i..::.J..~ 29 Yeats's land 
--+--+-+-+-.....--1---1-R.....T~ 30 Kind of admiral S E R S E S E N S E 31 Woman of A D T A T E L I E R habit? 

HOROSCOPE 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2000 
CELEBRillES BORN ON THIS DAY: Donna Karan, Sting, Don McLean, Rex Reed, Tiffany, Mike Rutherford, Geo~ge "Spanky" McFarland 
Happy Birthday: The year ahead should be filled with all sorts of pos­sibilities. It is best to keep busy and challenge yourself. You will thrive on mental stimulation, and those who can provide you with the intellectual competition you require will win your admiration. Make plans and follow through, and you won't be sorry. Your numbers: 8, 14, 17, 23, 28,31 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You need some adventure in your life. Try to talk a good friend into taking a holiday with you, but consider the cost before you book a trip to the exotic destination beckoning you. 
0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Put your money away for a rainy day. Don't let others coerce you into donating to an organization you don't believe in. You need to take care of your own needs first. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Check into any legal matters that Puzzle by Dave and Diane Epperson may be incomplete. You can begin new partnerships. Take your time
32 _ song 47 "_a dark and 51 Author Wiesel 
and make sure that everything is in
(cheaply) stormy night ... " 
52 Sugar source order. Things may not be as you per­33 "_, old chap" 48 Start of a long ceive them. 000
53 Film "sleeper'' of 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You

34 Leaves out battle 1978 
can make headway if you share your 36 Catch in the act 49 Short-winded 57 Speed: Abbr. ideas with your boss. Your view.of the situation at work will be amaz­
38 Part of a biblical 50 Wheelchair 58 "Either you say 
ingly accurate. You can impress
plague access it wilr 
otli.ers with your fortitude. 000 40 Dracula, for one LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will do well if you shop for i terns that
41 Genetically Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
will enhance your appearance, but
related 

are available by touch-tone phone: should try to stick to a budget. The organisms 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). improvements you make will bring 
43 St. Anthony's Annual subscriptions are available for the 
EUGENIA LAST 

you compliments. 0000 
-

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Check out your personal papers and your rights. You are likely to experience problems with family. Be prepared to sort out the mess at home·. Go through your closets and get rid of things that you no longer need. 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Roman­tic attractions will surface in the most unusual places. This is a great day to make plans with friends. Discuss your future intentions with someone you respect. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Implement those innovative ideas that you've had in your head for so long. Moneymaking opportunities are apparent. You should be looking into your own small business. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Old romantic companions may come back into your life. Your emo­tions appear to be unstable. Don't forget the problems you had in the past with this same individual. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Intimacies with clients or co-workers would only cause friction at work as well as at home. Keep your private affairs to yourself. You could easily be the topic of conversation if you don't.000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You must get involved in worth­while groups. Your leadership ability will be magnified because of your strong belief in helping those unable to help themselves. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Be careful not to tell your secrets to individuals who will let the cat out of the bag. Emotional problems must not be put on display. Take the day off if you think you'll lose your comp~.00 
Birthday Baby: You are daring, exciting and willing to try anything that 
cross 

best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
promises a thrill You are fun-loving, free-spirited and thorough in all that 46 Diviner's deck years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. you do. . (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) IC 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint · Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensiblo link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Namc~--'---------------------
Addrcss ____________________ 'City ________ State ____ Zip______ 



Blanked 
Albion shut down the Saint Mary's o.flense this week­end, blanking the Belles 7-0 in a conference game.­
page 25

PORTS 
O
THE page 28 BSERVER Monday, October 2, 2000 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Irish pick up weekend wins over Pirates, Knights 
By KEVIN BERCHOU Sport< Wrircer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer con­tinued its strong start this weekend as it moved to 11-0-0 with conference victo­ries over the Seton I!all Pirates and the Scarlet Knights of Hutgers. 
Playing perhaps its toughest Mid­Atlantic division foe in Seton llall the Irish plundered the Pirates. out-shoot­ing them 34-2 before winning by the lopsided rnargi.n of 6-0. The Irish returned to battle Sunday. leaving the Scarlet Knights sening red with an easy 2-0 win. 


'Tm very happy with the weekend," Irish head coach Randy Waldrum said. "l thought we did a lot of things well." 
Senior All-American Anne Makirnrn scored a pretty early goal off a cross from junior Lindsey Jones before five different Irish players contributed tal­lies of their own to cap the 6-0 win. 
After waltzing through their hyped showclown with Seton Hall, things became tougher for much ballyhooed No.I-ranked Notre Dame on Sunday. Though the Scarlet Knights of Hutgcrs were not at the same talent level as Nolrc Dame, they gave I.he Irish fits by keeping to a strict defensive style that made scoring chances scarce. 
"We didn't plan on sitting back," Rutgers head coach Glenn Crooks said. "I think that's a credit to Notre Dame. They almost pushed us to play that way, but we came out to play." 
Whether or not he intended to play defensively and escape South Bend with a tie. Crooks' plan worked. Though the Irish outshot the Knights 12-0 in the game's first half, the scoreboard still read 0-0. signifying a moral victory for Rutgers. 
"We were happy at the half," said Crooks. "We could have played better but we were happy to have it 0-0 and still be in the match." 
A Knight defender inadvertently touched the ball in the goal box giving the grateful Irish a penalty kick. Anne Makinen buried the ensuing shot high into the left corner for her 60th career goal giving Notre Dame a lead they would never concede. 
"That goal killed us," Crooks said. "We reallv never recovered." Added ·waldrum: "It's tough when 
you're playing for that tic, and they get that goal. "Hutgcrs doesn't havo the ability to come out and get it back. When you pack it in and you do give one away it is psychologically demoral­izing." 
Amanda Guertin put the Knights, who were already on life support. out of their misery with a goal just seconds later. After taking a pass l'rom Vanessa Pruzinsky, Guertin sent a perfect shot across the goalmouth and into the bot­tom right hand corner. 
"She's about one of the only players out there who can make a shot like that," Waldrum said. 
After out-shooting Hutgcrs 31-0 and only scoring twice. the Irish were con­cerned about defenders packing tho box against them. but realize it's a style 
see SOCCER/page 18 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Notre Dame drops third-straight Big East contest 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Spores Wrirer 
Despite scoring for the first time sine(\ Sept. 1<J, the Irish men's soccer team dropped its third-straight one-pnint deci­sion on Friday night. !'ailing 3­2 to the Panthers of Pittsburgh. 
"It's frustrating for all of us to be so close in these last three games," said Irish head coach Chris Apple. "To com­pete at a high level against tough oppo­

kicked the ball to thn left of diving Pittsburgh goalkeeper Justin Gaul. 
While finding success as of late. Braun has been playing through a painful hamstring injury throughout the season. 
"In an ideal world -if our season was a little bit more spread out -we'd be able to rest him a !iltle bit more," said Apple. "As it stands he's just fighting through this. he's showing a lot of courage." 
After the two-week scoring drought, the goals began to pour in for the 

nents, and "ft's frustrating for all of Irish as senior then come Grirtin Howard
us to be so close in these 

out on the put in a long 
short end. last three games." shot from the everyone's a top of the box little bit to put the Irish
Chris Apple

frustrated." up 2-1. The
men's soccer coach
Pittsburgh 
senior Spencer Barton was the thorn in Notre Dame's 

-..: side, scoring all three Panthcr goals for his first career hat trick. Barton started off his career evening early, taking a pass from teammate Chad Porter and lofting a 20•-foot shot over goalkeeper Greg Tait for the lone goal of the 11rst half. After halftime, the momen­tum of the game moved towards the Iri~.h. Sophomore Erich Braun -the leading scorer for the Irish this season -tied the game up 7:22 into the second half when senior Steve Maio found Braun open in front of th£• goal. Braun 
shift in momentum was apparent 

a.s the entire Notre Dame bench cheered on as Howard scored his first career goal not off or a penalty shot. 
Howard. who had never scored coming into the season. currently is the Notre Dame's leading goal-scorer as he had already put in three penalty shots. 
Mom en tum quickly drifted back to the Panthers as Barton took on Irish goalkeep­er Greg Tait one-on-one out­side the box three minutes later. Barton dribbled past Tait and easily put the ball into an empty net to tie the 
sec IRISH/page 18 

LIZ LANGfThe Observer Sophomore Erich Braun races upfield in this weekend's game against Pittsburgh. Braun tallied a goal in the 3-2 loss to the Panthers. 
vs. Northwestern at Georgetown at West Virginia ., Tuesday, 7 p.m. Friday, 4 p.m. Saturday, 11 a.m . 
SPORTS ~ ® 
Alr A 

vs. Adrian Cross Country ~--Stanford
9 .,
Wednesday, 6 p.m. Notre Dame Invitational Saturday, I:30 p.m. 
GLANCE ~­
Friday, 4: 15 p.m. 


