
On to Michigan 
From London to the Dome 
George W. Bush won the South Carolina primary 
Check out the review of "All's Well That Rnds 

Monday
Saturday, but his battle with John McCain will 
Well," which will be performed this week in 
continue in Michigan ·s primary this Tuesday. 
Washington Hall by the London Stage Actors. 
FEBRUARY 21, 
News . page6 Scene . page 12-13 
2000 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIII NO. 87 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Behind the scenes at Notre Dame 
Many workers keep Notre Dame plowed, clean and safe 
By MAUREEN SMITHE A,,i~1J11t N,w, Edirn, 
Who plows Lhe quads al -t a.m.? Who vacuums the hallways in the dorms'? And who ker.ps the Golden Dome golden? 
While it may b(\ easy to rerognize the work of' prolessors. researchers. adminis­trators and studenl'i on campus, it is often Lim work of those who keep the campus up and running that goes unnoticed. 
Thi' Boiler Operator 

After Notre Dame's power plant explo­sion last year. boiler operator Dave Chodzinski showed up to work "shocked." 
"Everything they had put in was brand new." Chodzinski said. "When we got to work the day after it happened. every­body went on thr, roof to look down into Ithe planL]." 
Although most days aren't that exciting, Uw South lfond native still enjoys the work. Specifkally. Chodzinski is "respon­sible for shoveling coal into the boilers ­keeping them running so they can pro­duce electricity and heating for all build­ings on campus." 
"It's a prestigious job." he said. "This is a good place to work because they aren't going to pick up the University and move it somewhere else and lay people ofT ­it's stable work." 
The power plant runs 365 days a year, with three workers assigned to three rotating shifts. Although all three shifts require the same work, Chodzinski said he prefers the day shift because it gives 'T!I tell you, basketball is better than Klein can be seen plowing the quads latehim more time to spend with his family, football these days, especially the wom­The Snow Plower at night until well into the morning. 
which will grow next Friday when he gets 
ens' team -they are great," he said, Growing up in Granger, lead "We've got radar, so as soon as we
married. 
despite the fact that he can rarely attend groundskeepers Bill Klein has always know it will snow we get all the trucks"She is not a Notre Dame fan. but l am the games because of conflicts with his loved Notre Dame. ready," Klein said. 
going to work on converting her," 
work hours. "My dad was a Notre Dame fan. I have a Working on three shifts that operateChodzinski laughed. 
Overall, Chodzinski and his co-workers daughter who is a senior here now," He nearly around the clock, Klein and hisIn fact, Chodzinski was a Notre Dame 
"make the most of it. Everybody here has said. "This is the ultimate job because it is
fan long before he started working here a pretty good time," he said. "You gotta at a place l love." see WORKERS/page 4 



Engineering prof wins award 
Special to The Observer 
Steven Schmid. associate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering at Notre Dame, is one of nine recipients selecled to receive the 2000 John T. Parsons OutsLanding Young Manufacturing Engimier Award. 
The award is conforrcrl each year by the Society of '.Vlanufacturing Engineers in recognition of significant achievements and leadership in the 11eld of manufac­turing engineering by young engineers. It ranks in stature with the Society's International Honor Award and the Award of Merit. Schmid will receive the award later this year at the North American Manufacturing Research Conference in Lexington, Ky. 
A faculty member since 1993, Schmid specializes in 
see AWARD/page 4 
McBrien will not seek mandate 
By ERIN PIROUTEK 
A.ssist~nt News Editor 
The November vote by the National Conference of Catholic Bishops on the implementation of Ex Corde Ecclesiac. which includ­ed the 
requircmen t that theology professor receive man­dates. raised concerns in Catholic the­ology depart­ments nation­

wide. McBrien One promi­nent Notre Dame professor has stated he will not seek such a mandate. Father Richard McHrien. theol­
ogy professor and former depart­ment chairman, will not seek a mandate because, he said, it would compromise the institu­tional autonomy of Catholic uni­versities and colleges. Mandates introduce an external, non-acade­mic agent, the bishop, into the process of determining who can and cannot teach in a Catholic university or college. The imple­mentation guidelines require that theologians at Catholic colleges and universities receive mandates to teach from their local bishops. 
The implementation guidelines of Ex Corde, a document which Pope John Paul II originally issued in 1990. were approved by the U.S. Catholic bishops on Nov. 1 7, 1999. Afterwards, various members of the national press called McBrien for his reaction. He repeatedly stated that he 

would not seek a mandate. 
father Thomas Reese, editor­in-chief of "America," a weekly Catholic magazine, asked McBrien to write an article elabo­rating upon his decision not to request a mandate. 
At first he was reluctant to do so, not wanting to call attention to himself. Several theologians, however, advised him that such an article might help individuals make decisions on the mandate issue. 
McBrien's article "Why I Shall Not Seek a Mandate" appeared in the Feb. 12 issue of "America." 
"I made it clear in the article, however, that my position was not based on defiance but on a concern for the academic integri­ty of Catholic universities. It is, 
see MANDATE/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, rebruary 21, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A History Lesson 
I'll be the first lo admit I was skeptical. 
When my friend Trip told me he was going to invite History to dinner I just laughed. Why would a legend want to dine with a group of students? I was sure he had fat more important things Kevin Berchou to do. universities to build. committees to serve on. I pnl my chances of sharing a 
sports copy
meal with History right up 
editor
there with my shot at tak­ing in a movie with the Pope. 
Then one day, Trip burst into my room. He asked me if I'd made any plans for the third Thursday in February because he had found a way to take History to dinner. 
All it took was a simple call. Ambitious as Trip was, he had phoned History's secretary to see if it would be possible to take the man to dinner. The next day an affirmative reply arrived from his secretary. She said that History didn't normally do this. but in this casr. he'd make an exception. 
So that was how it all happened. On the third Thursday in February, four Sorinites and two lovely ladies from Pangborn frequented the Morris Inn for dinner with one father Theodore Hesburgh as their distinguished guest. 
That's right. I. along with my friends. had the honor of dining with the man many refer to as one of the greatest to have ever lived. His sec­retary said he had made an exception, but somehow. deep down, I think Father Ted oblig­es every request he can. 
I respectfully refer to Father Ted as History because his life reads like a textbook on that same subject. Name an important event that took place in the latter half of the 20th century and it's likely that Father Ted was involved in some capacity. He has been on countless presi­dential committees, won well over 100 hon­orary degrees, and now he was having dinner with a small group of awed freshmen. 
The meal was everything I envisioned and more. While we wanted so badly to learn more about him, he took great care to learn more about us. Discontented by knowing only our names, Father Hesburgh made sure he knew where we were from, what our majors were and what we liked best about Notre Dame all before the night ended. 
Father Hesburgh had the fish. My friends and I had the time of our lives. He told every last story, candidly spoke of his meetings with the famous and told us what he thought of higher education today. I now know how it was that Father Ted became president, and how he coaxed President Carter into letting him fly in the plane that set the world speed record. I'll never forget those stories, just like I'll never forget that meal. 
Throughout our dinner, Father Hesburgh emphasized that Notre Dame was about the students. He noted emphatically that he was always willing to speak with his students, and he said he expected his staff members to follow suit. As I savored my last bite of filet mignon, I realized this man practiced precisely what he preached. Here he was. eating dinner with the students, never once thinking of turning them awav. 
We walked our distinguished guest back to his library oflice when our meal concluded. My friends were quick to note how incredible it was that we had just escorted Father Hesburgh back to the building that bore his name. At that moment, I think we all felt that we had become a part of History and that History had become a part of us. 
The v.iews expressed in the Inside Column arp those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene Lalim Rompf Mike Vanegas Kare Nagengast Graphics Lindsay Frank 
Scott Hardy Sports Lab Tech Mike Connolly 
Joe Stark 
Viewpoint 
Amanda Greco 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Mond•y through Frid,y except during exarn and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of ,he A.s.saciaied P,es.. All reproduction righrs are reS<:rved. 
THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 

Monday  Tuesday  Wednesday  Thursday  
. CPR Training: Holls I-lee  . Northern Ireland Lecture:  . Dancing with Different  . All's Well That Ends  
Center at 6:30 p.m.  llesburgh Library  Colors: Hesburgh Library  Well: Washington Hall.  
Call 1-8662 to register.  Auditorium, 7:30 p.m.  Auditorium, 7 p.m.  7:30 p.m. Call 1-8128 for  
. The Art of the Mask:  . The Rivals: O'Laughlin  . All's Well That Ends  $12 student tiokels.  
Library Auditorium, 8 p.m.  Auditorium. Call 284-4626  Well: Washington Hall,  . Choices in Healing:  
. Eucharistic Adoration:  for tir,kets.  7:30 p.m. Call 1-8128 for  Michael Lerner. Ph.D. on  
Fisher Hall begins at  $12 student tickets.  approaches to cancer at  
11:30 p.m.  McKenna llall, 7 p.m.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 

U Penn students stage sit-in, withdraw from LFA 
PIIIL<\.DELPHIA it's a good first step, but it's defi­
"We're generally pretty happy

The sleeping bags are rolled up. nitely not the end." the colored signs have been moved with the outcome ofthe sit-in. PSAS still hopes to convince the away and College Hall no longer University to join the Worker High ts 
We think it's a goodfirst step.

echoes with the sound of bongo Consortium. an organization it feels drums. but it's de.finitely not the end." is better able to monitor labor con­But although Penn Students ditions. It hopes to achieve this Against Sweatshops has left the through the Ad Hoc Committee on
Roopa Gona 

building, iis i.rnpact lingers both on Sweatshops. which is looking into
Penn Students Against Sweatshops

r,ampus and across the nation. the issue and will make a recom­

member

After launching the first success­mendation to Bodin. ful sit-in at Penn in decades, PSAS College freshman Anna Roberts has managed to attract attention Sweatshops member Amanda Bell, said the PSAS sit-in helped jump­from numerous media organiza­a senior. start similar demonstrations at tions from The Philadelphia Daily The protesters, who had camped other colleges and universities. News to MTV. And members have out in University President Judith "We really feel like Penn had an found support on many other col­Hodin's office for nine straight effect on how fast these other uni­lege campuses. days, scored a victory on Monday versities reacted," she said. 
Anti-sweatshop groups at other when the University agreed to pull Although sweatshop protests have schools fasted in sympathy with out of the Fair Labor Association. occurred at numerous institutions PSAS this week and many are hold­"We're ge1rnrally pretty happy over the past year. this month has ing similar protests for the cause. with the outcome of the sit-in," seen a resurgence of interest in the 
"The Penn sit-in turned up the PSAS member and College sopho­issue, especially with regards to heat," said Yale Students Against more Roopa Gona said. "We think factory organizations. 

Playboy reveals new college issue 
ST. LOUIS, Mo. 
The cameras of Playboy magazine will be aimed at Conference USA schools -including Saint Louis University-for the magazine's October issue. 
During the magazine's first visit to C-USA, Playboy photographers will spend two days interviewing candi­dates at 13 schools including Marquette University, DePaul University and the University of Houston. 
Candidates for the fall 2000 college pictorial must be at least 18 years old and registered as full-or part-time students at a C-USA university. When Playboy photogra­phers will hit SLU's campus remains unknown. 
Executive Vice President James Kimmey said that the University had not been contacted by Playboy prior to its announcement that SLU students will be considered for the pictorial. 
"This does not violate any school policy," Kimmey said. adding that no discretionary policies or rules exist against such evenl'>. 
Vice President for Public Relations Bob Woodruff sur­mised that as part of its marketing strategy, Playboy contacted media outlets hoping to stir up interest and attention instead of directly contacting C-USA schools. 


UNC-Charlotte faces name change 
CHARLOTl'E, N.C. 

Changing the University of North Carolina at Charlotte's name is not going to be easy. According to a press release by Student Body President Mark Lombardi, the only backing he has received concerning the issue is from students. 
"Currently the only push for a name change will have to be from students. Our administration could not sup­port this change for more political reasons than imagin­able," the release stated. 
The proposal. put forth by Lombardi and backed by Delta Sigma Phi Fraternity, request'> that the University's name be changed from UNC Charlotte to the University of Charlotte. 
Creating the name change is a "long lengthy and heavi­ly political process," said Jeff Lowrance, assistant direc­tor of public relations. 
Changing the University's name would take several steps, which could be very expensive. The first step according to Lowrance would be the University adminis­tration and Chancellor James Woodward with the back­ing of faculty, presenting the proposal to the Board of Trustees. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
Accu Weather 00 forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon.Monday, Feb. 21. 

H Monday c£Ll 47 Tuesday @, 43 Wednesday ~, 
4l~i1\, Thursday ~ 



"' ''\ '(
J 

56 High Low Showers Rain T•1torm1 Flurrlo• Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
FridcJV . .r. ....'AL~ 
:;" ::,1...\\..,,·"1-.._,..,_ .1· ':,("' 
.,,/ . 

Baltimore 45 28 Los Angeles 60 51 Seattle 53 43 ~ ~ ~ u ~ ~ ¢-~ a Boston 36 26 Memphis 62 46 St. Louis 62 48
",,,",~..~ :._._:. ·=·.(:\::· -;.-=..-=. 

Chicago 52 46 Milwaukee 45 40 Tampa 71 50
Showers T'storms Rain Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Grand Rapids 40 33 New York 43 31 Wash DC 47 32
VU:! Associated Pros$ Graphl.::,N&t 

Monday, February 21, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

MUSIC AND POETRY: BLAK KOFFEE HOUSE MAKES SOME NOISE 

Orlando Gonzalez fright) reads his original poetry ".Just in Case" at 13lak Koffce HousP., a Black Cultural Arts Council of Notrn Dame annual event. This year's production. "A Rose is Still a Hose: Our History is Your Ilistory," showcased various acts including a trumpet performanr,e of "Summertime" by freshman advisor Mel Tardy. Gail Thompson and Jesse Jerome Travis, both freshmen, we.re presented Thurgood Marshall scholarships during the event. 
photos by ANDY WILSON 

School of Architecture announces Millennium Gate contest 
to cosponsor and administer 1996, will be conducted in two also involve the offices of tion. The actual execution of 
Speial to The Observer 
the '.vfillennium Gate project. phases. Wahsington, D.C., Mayor the design will be completed The school offers the only fully Entrants first are invited to Anthony A. Williams. the D.C. by an associated architectural
Notre Dame's School of 
accredited curriculum in tra­design a Millennium Gate that City Council and firm and the ultimate con­
Architecture and the 
ditional architecture and reaffirms the central role the Congresswoman Eleanor struction of the gate will be
Millennium Gate Foundation 
urbanism in higher education nation's capital plays in our Holmes -will produce a final done at no cost to the public.
have announced a design com­
and has been characterized as civic life while contributing to design from the winning entry The winning designer will be
petition for a monumental 
"the Athens" of he new classi­the classical traditions archi­for a site at Barney Circle in awarded $1,500 and each of 
entrance to the District of 
cism movement by The New tect Pierre Charles L'Enfant the southeast sector of the other finalists will receiveColumbia in celebration of the 
York Times. originally formulated for the Washington. The group will $1,000 and all expenses
nnw millennium. 
The competition, which is city in 1793. also produce designs for two required for participation inTtw competition's require­open to students and young A jury of American and additional potential sites for the charette. 
ment for a classical design 
professionals who have international architects will the Millennium Gate. The competition deadline is
makes Notre Dame's School of 
received a degree in architec­select a winning design and up After the charette, one or May 12 and the winners willArchitecture the logical r,hoice 
ture and related fields since to 12 individuals to participate more of the final designs will be annouced in Washington in a charette, or collaboration, be selected by a special review during the Memorial Day holi­which will constitute the pro­panel of the competition's day weekend, May 27-29. The ject's second stage. sponsors and public agencies ensuing charette will take
Notre Oame Film. Television and Theatre presents 
The charette -which will in the district for implementa-place the week of July 2-8. 

Attors fro111 tl1e Lo11clo11 Stag·e
All's Well That Ends Well 
liy  William  Shakespeare  
Sunday Matinee. February 20 .......... 2:30 pm  Thursday. February 24 ...................... 7:30 pm  
Wednesday. February 23 .................... 7:30 pm  Friday. February 25 ..........,................... 7.3U pm  

Saturdav February 26 ........................ 7:30 pm 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats S16 • Seniors S14 • All Students S12 Tickets available at LaFcnune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631 ·8128. 
Your 
children 
are a real 
credit 
to you. 

They're your pride and joy. What's more, they can save you
Ssoo each 

up to $500 each, subtracted Who qualifies? Each dependent child, or descendant, stepchild or foster child under 17 as of 12/31/99. Must be a U.S. citizen or resident, 
Credit is reduced when your modified Adjusted Gross Income exceeds certain limits. Special rules apply for three or more children. 
Why wait for a refund? You can take home more money every payday, if you ask your employer to withhold less. (Be careful to withhold enough to 
avoid a penalty.) 
right off your federal income 
tax. The Child Tax Credit is 
See your 1999 tax booklet for 

full details. Or check the IRS
! an important benefit of the 
i 

Web site: www.irs.gov
!Taxpayer Relief Act. 

The residenci of Actors from we London Stage 1s sponsa1,d. in pan. by :he Henkels Lec1"ie Se~<S. 
~~ This 1~r..,r: '! m111€ 00!!11!l: ,n '.13!~ r. ~~:! CJ~mt:m~: F:::rJ?;,;:-: :: ~.:,~ ~:2:n ~:t:r_. '.1'~:.lt.i;i :"~ l--t1G:''..! ,~r.:; II A,;~ .'t"·-,k CarrJTI$0..'1.; ~119~;:c-;. :,,Hl tar.Cs 1;:m :n; l11Ci?rJ ~r.-!JI rl:!a,:-::. n~ '.i";: ::.:~!!:'JI r.~ac-.:.0:r.: ;:, ::--~ lt!. I.IA\.\":~ 
~ 

Workers 
continued from page 1 
coworkers are trained on the job for anything that may arise. 
"I am here for any emergency that may come up," he said. "I am here to serve the students and the faculty, and l hope the studenl'> appreciate what I do." 
The occasional grumble from a student inconvenienced by a plow does not dishearten Klein. He enjoys the work and even has fun with it. 
"One dav, some students were out sleddfng on the hill behind Lewis !Jail. so I pushed the snow to make the sledding more fun for them," he said, "and of course sometimes some students will pound the truck with snowballs, so I 'II give them a honk or a wave." 
However, South Bend's tem­peramental weather occasionally leaves Klein and his crew with nothing to do. In such a case, they "wash equipment or pick up trash," he said. 
And the warm summer months also keep KJein busy. "I trim trees. I love it because I like being outside," he said. 
The sense of pride Klein takes in his work is evident in the sense of pride he has in the University. 
"Everyday I can look up at the Dome and say 'There's my office,"' he said. 
The Housekeeper 

When Dawn Bell's alarm clock goes off every morning at 5 a.m., she rolls over and wishes for a few more hours. 
"The first thing I think about is 'How I am going to get out of bed and get into the shower?' If it wasn't for my husband. I would never get out of bed," said Bell, the housekeeper of Badin Hall 
Bell and her husband Charles. who is a custodian at Sorin College, have to arrive at Notre Dame by 6:45 a.m. in order to begin work at 7 a.m. After punching in at a building behind the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union, the two go their separate ways until the end of the shift at 
3:30 p.m. 
"We don't see each other dur­ing the day," she said. "We don't meet too often -it's not worth the hassle." 
Once she gets to Badin, Bell's first duties include turning lights on and emptying trash. She then begins her daily routine of vacu­uming. bathroom scrubbing and overall maintenance. 
"I enjoy the work, especially because of the girls in Badin. Evervone is so nice," she said. 
Ho~ever, there are aspects of the job that Bell would prefer to stay away from. 
"Cleaning up vomit is the worst," she said. 
In her 13 years as a house­keeper for Notre Dame's dormi­tories. Bell has kept several dorms tidy. 
"I worked in Dillon with Father Kerry for nine years -he was such a good person. I also worked in Morissey Hall before coming to Badin." she said. 
Bell also said that, despite com­mon misconception, "some girls dorms can be just as bad a boys dorms.·• 
"It depends on the rector. 1 have been in girls dorms that were an absolute mess. Students just need to take pride in where they live," she said. 
Bell also pointed out that up until just a few years ago, house­keepers were responsible for a twice weekly cleaning of every dorm room. Housekeepers would clean rooms on a Mondav­Thursday, Tuesday-Friday basis. 
"Years a.go, before they started building lofts, housekeepers also had to make the beds," she said. 
Bell has the help of Chris 

Murphy in keeping Badin looking its cleanest. 
"I get along really well with Chris, she does her job, she is dependable. We are like a team, which makes a big difference." Bell said. 
for Bell, the nicest aspect of her job is the security. 
"We'll always have a job. We don't have to worry about gel.ting laid off. Notre Dame does a good job assuring us of stability," she said. "Even the workers at [St. Michael's Laundry) had jobs afler the fire there." 
The Gatekeeper 

When Becky Kruzel took a job with Notre Dame's Security and Police Department 10 years ago, she had her kids in mind. 
"I came to work here because it was close to home and for my children's education." she said. "They arc still only 14 and 11 , so I've got a few years yet until I get the benefit ol' free tuition." 
Kruzel left the Indiana State Police for Notre Dame and has not regretted it since. 
"This is the best job I've ever had. This University is a wonder­ful place to work at. They've been good to me," Kruzel said. 
As the ol1icer at the Main Gate from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m.. Kruzel rec­ognizes that she is not a favorite when she denies students cam­pus access. 
"To be. honest. the worst part of my job is telling students that they can't drive on campus. The geography of the campus does not allow for parking lots, so I can't just let everyone on," she said. "Thev all have their rea­sons, and we have to say no, and they disagree. It isn't always nice." 
On the f1ipside, Kruzel also points out that working with a variety of people makes her job interesting. 
"My favorite aspect of this job would be meeting visitors and talking with students. This school is a big tourist attraction, and I like taking out a map and advis­ing tourists on the places they should visit on campus," Kruzel said. · 
A South Bend native, Kruzel has always been a football fan. However, since taking the job at Notre Dame, football weekends mean more than just tailgaiting and cheering with the band. 
"The weekends with football games are hectic. I enjoy it, but we have to work 12-hour days, and those are long days. The gates are really busy," she said. 
At the end of even her busiest day, Kruzel looks forward to spending time with her family. something her job as a security guard at Notre Dame allows her to do. 
"As the kids got older, with homework and sports, my boss, Rex Rakow, rearranged the schedule to make it easier for me to be involved in my kids' lives. I can help with homework and carpooling because I am off at three in the afternoon," she said. 
The Dome Shiner 

And what about Notre Dame's pride and joy? According to Gary Shumaker. director of facilities operations. it doesn't take much to keep the Dome shining through wind, rain. snow and the occasional Hail Mary. 
"We really don't have to do a lot to the Dome on average," Shumaker said. "We look at it periodically, but as far as needing to redo it, we only do that every 20 years or so." 
When the Dome is redone, gold paint is first applied, followed by a layer of gold leaf. In addition. a special preservative material is applied to protect t.he job. 
"As far as costs are concerned, it varies, depending on the kind of work necessary," Shumaker said. 
Mandate 
continued from page 1 
for me, simply a matter of principle," Mcl3rien said, 
He explained that Catholic universities cannot expect academic respect if the man­date system is introduced. 
"We can't have a Catholic higher education system whose academic degrees are honored throughout the acad­emic world and the wider society," said McBrien. "And, at the same time, introduce a mechanism into the internal life of our universities and colleges that undermines our claim to academic serious­ness." 
The mandate requirement applies only to theology pro­fessors. McBrien n()ted that if the purpose of mandates is to preserve Catholic identity of an institution, they should be required of all Catholic facul­ty and administrators. 
"I have found that concern for and commitment to the Catholic character of our uni­versities is highest in our the­ology departments," said McBrien. "If there is a prob-lorn of erosion of Catholic character. it is to be found outside of our theology department.~. not inside." 

I-le explained that mandate defenders note that other professionals, such as lawyers and doctors, require certifica­tion. Lawyers and doctors. however, are certified by their peers. Lawyers are required to pass a bar exam created by other lawyers. Doctors are required to pass an exam created by other doctors. Requiring a bishop to certify a theology professor is different. 
"Bishops are not theolo­gians. They am pastors. As such. they have an important role to play in the Church, but evaluating the academic cre­dentials of faculty members in universities -even Catholic universities -is not one of their roles," said McBrien. 
Ex Corde does not say any­thing explicit about man­dates, leaving Urn implemen­tation to the national Episcopal conferences. The possibilities vary from legally required mandates to an option under the discretion of each individual university. 
In the article, McBrien 
emphasized that theologians, not just bishops and universi­ty presidents, should be involved in the implementa­tion process. 
John Cavadini, theology department chair, agreed. 
"I would echo McBrien's hope that theologians are consulted In any attempt to draft an implementation plan," said Cavadini, noting that involvement would sug­gest that, in theory, a mutual­ly acceptable solution could be reached. 
Cavadini_ said that he would reserve a decision on the mandate issue until the details of Ex Corde implemen­tation are finalized. 
"I find it impossible to form a judgement because there is nothing concrete in place," said Cavadini. 
The implementation process may take several years, which means mandates are not an immediate concern. Cavadini. however, expressed support for individual deci­sions of theology faculty. 
"As far as my colleagues go, I completely respect whatever decision their conscience prompts them to make," said Cavadini. 

American Society of Manufacturing Engineers, the Society of Tribologists and Lubrication Engineers and the Materials Research Society. In 1986 Schmid received a bach­elor's degree in mechanical engineering from the Illinois Institute of Technology. He received a master's in mechanical engineering from Northwestern University in 1989 and a doctorate, also from Northwestern, in 1993. 
Award 
continued from page I 
tribology; manufacturing process simulation and opti­mization; surface generation; measurement and modeling; tribo-characteristics and wear of tool materials. The majority of his research is conducted in the Tribology/Manufacturing Laboratory where he studifls problems associated with fric­tion. wear and lubrication of industrial equipment. Recent research in the lab has emphasized the mechanisms of emulation lubrication and surface evolution in manufac­turing processes. 

Co-author of three books as well as various journal and conference papers, Schmid is a member of the Society of Manufacturing Engineers, the 
Recycle The Observer. 

Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering 
Open House 
Engineering intents, 
check out the cool jobs you can have as an Aerospace or Mechanical Engineer. 
'I 
Tour our high-tech labs. 
Talk to engineering students 
and faculty. 

Have some food; we start serving at 6 p.m. ~ 
Don't be late. 

Aerospace Engineering -
Hessert Center for Aerospace 
Research Seminar Room 
Mechanical Engineering ­
356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

Monday, February 21 6 to 7:30 p.m. 
e x a m n e y o u r 0 p t o n s 

orld 

Monday February 21, 2000 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Convicted murderer hijacks plane, takes guard hostage 
BOCOTA, Colombia 
,\ convicted murderer who was being flo½1.1 across Colombia managed to pull a knife, hijack the plane and forct> it to land at a remote airstrip, where he fled with a guard as his hostage. police said Sunday. Police were hunt­ing foi· Hernando Prada, who had been serving a 50-vear sentence for murder. Despite the prose.nee of an armed escort of two prison guards, Prada drew a knife eight minutes after the Beechcraft 1900 biplane took off from Bucaramanga airport in northwestern Santander state on Saturday, police said. The plane was headed for the town of Cucuta, but Prada forced the pilot to land at a small airstrip at El Tornillo. 240 miles north of Bogota. There, he forced one of the guards to flee with him. Police did not immediately explain how Prada had smuggled the knife onboard or why he was being transferred to Cucuta. 
'Mad cow' disease returns 
PARIS 
/\ new case of "mad cow" disease has been detected in France, authorities said Sunday the seventh since the beginning of the year. The cow was part of a herd of 600 near Bourg-en­Bresse, in the Ain region of southeastern France. The herd was slaughtered and inciner­ated on Saturday, officials in the Ain region said. Last year, French authorities discovered 31 cases of mad cow disease, or bovine spongi­form encephalopathy. Authorities have said that new cases of mad cow disease will break out in France until 2001, five years after stringent prevention measures were taken against the disease, which has an average incubation peri­od of five years. France outlawed feeds contain­ing animal proteins in 1996 out of fears they could cause mad cow disease. 
Police raid bar to find witnesses 
NEWARK, NJ. 
Frustrated by an investigation grown cold, authorities used a raid on underage drinking at a popular bar to round up potential witnesses to a deadly dorm fire at Seton Hall University, The Star-Ledger of Newark reported Sunday. Nearly a dozen of the students arrested during the raid at the New Hall Tavern just before 1:30 a.m. Friday were given subpoenas to testify Tuesday before a grand jury looking into the fire, the newspaper said. Investigators had expected the group to be at the bar. The Jan. 19 blaze killed three freshmen and injured 62 people. Law enforcement sources. whom the newspaper did not identify, said their investigation has been hampered because some students have been withholding information. 
l,tt,iiDltt@.••·I
Dow AMEx: 
931.96 

]ONES ·550 
Nasdaq:

-295.05 

4411.74 -137.1 S 
NYSE: 
586.67 -14.59 
S&P 500: 1345.12

10219.52 
-43.14 
VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY T:!'CK'!R ' CRANGE 
~ 

VZRTI:CAL COt.lPU-T VCSY' +.25.87 MI~ROSOP'T C01t.P MS,.,. 
_, .58 ORACt.~ C01U> Ol>CL .,.9'1 Dl!i.U. C0MPUTER -1.St
"~"" _,. 20

nrn:L CO~P !NTC T'Z:CIINICLONII: co:a TCLII +37.00 GLOBAL CROSSl:NG GBLX -U.22 QUALCOMM INC ()COM +3.U CISCO SYSTEMS CECO -J .59 MC 1 WOR.L.DC(IM IN \<COM -6.36 

Composite Volume: 897,265,000 
CHANG!: PJI.I~J: 
+0. 5200 l. 53 -•. 58'50 
9!i.015 -3.06SO 58.Sli -Q.6275 4.0, 06 -,.noo 105. 38 . 242200 111.a2 -8. 6825 SJ . .l8 +4. 5000 134.50 -,.nioo lZS. 81 -3. 1300 t.6.12 
COMPILED l<ROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
ROMANIA 
page 5 


Associated Press 
TISZARNER 
When Gheorghe Dobre was awakened by emer­gency vehicles speeding past his house in the middle of the night, his first thought was of the cyanide reservoir just down the road. 
"The noise woke up the whole village," Dobre said. "We figured there must have been an accident." · 
A few hundred yards down the hill from Dobre's northern Romanian village Sasar, earthen walls of a reservoir owned by the Aurul gold mine had washed away in a down-
YUGOSLAVIA 

Serbs pelt peacekeepers with rocks 
pour, sending 130,000 cubic yards of cyanide­laced water into a nearby creek. 
From that nameless gully only 10 feet wide, the pollu­tant began a journey through southeastern Europe, killing tons of fish and other wildlife in three countries and transforming one of the region's major waterways into a river of death. 
Weeks after the Jan. 30 spill, people who live along 500-mile stretch of the worst-affected Tisza River and its tributaries are wor­ried about their livelihoods, confused about the long­term effects of the spill and angry that such an accident could have happened. 

Even before rain and melting snow swelled the reservoir over its 13 foot walls, many of the 2,500 inhabitants of Sasar had been nervous about living so close to the 230-acre pond and its deadly chemi­cals. 
The cyanide was used to separate gold from ore extracted by the mine, owned by the Romanian government and Esmeralda Exploration Ltd., of Australia. 
"We all worked in the mines and we know how dangerous cyanide can be," Anna Gisha said. 
From the tiny creek, the pollutants flowed into the 
under attack from an angry crowd. he said sol­diers found plastic explo­sives, 15 rifles and hand­guns, one grenade, one machine gun and loads of ammunition. 
One person was arrest­ed. Those injured included two American peacekeep­ers, one with a broken nose and one with a chipped tooth, and three Serbs, he said. 
About 2,:mo troops, including French, Americans, Germans and Canadians, set out shortly after dawn to conduct the nearby Lapus River and on to the Somes, a muddy stream which heads west­ward to Hungary and the Tisza River, about 75 miles west of the mine. 
In Vasarosnameny, where the Somes meets the Tisza, Tibor Loerincz heard the news on television only hours before the cyanide reached his town late Feb. 2. 
"It's a good thing it hap­pened in winter or I would have been out fishing," Loerincz said. Like thou­sands of others in Romania, Hungary aHd Yugoslavia, Loerincz is sad about the possible devastation of one of Eastern Europe's most ecologically rich rivers. 
major search operation on both sides of the !bar River, which divides the town, said Lt. Cmdr. Philip Anirlo, a NATO spokesman. 
Peacekeepers' heli­copters circled above KosoYska '.\1itrovica, drop­ping leaflets that read: "Attention' Attention! KFOR (Kosovo Force) sol­diers are here to search for weapons. Hand over your weapons when asked to do so bv KFOH soldiers. Do not impede KFOR oper­ations. KFOR soldiers will treat you with dignity and respect." 
Associated Pres, 
KOSOVSKA MfTROVfCA A crowd of angry Serbs pelted American and German peacekeepers with rocks and bricks Sunday during a massiw1 house-to­house search for illegal weapons in this tense. eth­nically divided Kosovo 
town. 
The weapons search was a bid to halt a spiral of vio­lence that has been build­ing since Feb. 2. when two Serbs died in a rocket attack on a U.N. bus. Nine people have been killed and dozens arrested in vio­lence since in Kosovska Mitrovica, which is divided into predominantly Serb and predominantly ethnic Albanian sides of town. 
French Lt. Col. Patrick Chanliau, a spokesman for the NATO-led peacekeep­ing force, said soldiers from a dozen countries found no weapons in tho southern section, where mostly ethnic Albanians live. 
In the Serb northern part, where the Americans and some Germans came 

page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Monday, February 21, 2000 
Republican fight shifts focus towards Michigan 
Associated Press 
EAST LANSING. Mich. 

Fresh from a South Carolina triumph, George W. Hush said Sunday he was campaigning to "bring our country togeth­er." John McCain called his Hepublican rival a big­s pend er, then taunt­ed, "if he's a reformer, I'm an astronaut." 
Both men moved through the first day of a tightly compressed cam­paign in Michigan as the pace of the Republican presidential nomination battle quichned. It fell to McCain, the under­dog in uncontested need of a win, to outline the stakes. 
"We won round one," he said, referring to his landslide in New Hampshire's presiden­tial primary on Feb. 1. "Governor Bush won round two," a lopsided win in South Carolina. 
"Now we go to round three," he said. 
Bush strategists were hop­ing South Carolina would give their man the momentum. McCain countered with an endorseri1enl from Rep. Peter King, H-N.Y., who had sup­ported Bush but said he was put off by the candidate's appeal in South Carolina, 
including  his  visit  to  Bob  
Jones University.  
King,  a  Catholic,  said  

America needs a "conserva­tive who will not yield to the temptation of pandering in ways that support bigotry." 
"ls Mr. King suggesting I have an anti-Catholic bias because I went to a universi-


ty," Bush asked at one stop. "I go to universities all the time. 
"So with all due respect to Congressman King, he can make any decision he wants to make, but he should not ascribe anything to my heart because my record is a lot dif­
ferent from what he thinks it might be." 
B u s h noted that his brother Jeb, the governor of 


F I o r i d a . McCain recently coverted to Catholicism after being mar­ried a Catholic woman for 20 vears. · One poll, taken before South Carolina voted. rated Michigan a toss-up. It had Bush ahead in the GOP strongholds and McCain run­
ning stronger in the areas where indep1rndent voters and blue collar, Reagan-style 
Democrats reside. 
With the primary set for Tuesday, there was no time for either campaign to make new television commercials, or even purchase additional time on the state's stations. 
Bush, the Texas governor, flew in Saturday night and headed straight for the Republican strongholds around Grand Rapids. 
Later, in Detroit, he jabbed at McCain, saying voters would pick a leader like him­self who is talking about edu­cation reforms and strength­ening the military over "some­body who's trying to cast aspers.ions on his opponent. I suspect they're going to pick like they did in South Carolina." 
At an earlier appearance, he continued to emphasize the 
Got News? Call 1-5323 
..... , 
,, 

· Attention all Juniors: 
Summer Internship Opportunities 
The Environmental research Institute, a joint activity of Notre Dame & Argonne National Laboratory (ANL), in collaboration with the Center for Environmental Science & Technology, will award up to two Summer 2000 internships at ANL in argonne, IL-with a follow­up campus research appointment in the Fall. Stipend, room & board are provided for the 10-week pro­gram. 
Stt1dent applicants should have research interest.1· in an environmentally­related discipline ( any field ofstudy) concerned with or likely to con­tribute to the u11derstandi11g, msessment, or improvement ofthe en11iron­111e111. Applicants must be US citizens orpemianent re.~idents, enrolled at Notre Dame, lwve completed their Junior Year by May 2000, a11d he rei:is1ered w return in the Fall of2000. 
For more details, contact the Center for ·Environmental Science & Technology: 152A Fitzpatrick hall, 631-8376. Applicants will be required to complete an application. 
Application deadline is February 23, 2000 
positive. 'Tm going to contin­ue to talk about how to bring our country together. 1'm going to talk about a better tomorrow," Bush said. 
Bush and several aides also took issue with McCain's con­cession speech Saturday night in which he said the cam­paign was a choice "between experience and pretense." 
"I think the America voters, the people in Michigan. are going to have to judge how each of us reacts," Bush said. "Now they've had a chance to see each of us react to victory and each of us react to defat." 
Bush also underscored a theme hr, had used in South Carolina, that Oemocrats shouldn't choose the Republican nominee. His remarks had a distinctly Michigan cast as he cited the example nf Geoffrey fieger, a Democrat and lawyer for sui­cide advocatr, .Jack Kevorkian. who Bush said had been "making noises" about voling. 
Republicans should say to him, "You're not going to pick the Republican nominee," Bush said of Fieger. 
Exit polls in South Carolina showed that Bush's claim to be a "reformer with results" had connected, and also that voters believed McCain, more than his rival. had engaged in unfair attacks. 
Thal left McCain with a tricky task of trying to under­score his conservative creden­tials at the same time he was angling to undercut 13ush's claim of being a reformer ­all the while upholding his plr,dge to run a positivr, cam­paign. McCain questioned Bush's integrity, comparing him to President Clinton. in an ad that aired in South Carolina but was not shown to Michigan voters. 
Appearing on NBC's "Meet the Press," McCain said Bush's record on spending compared unfavorably with Clinton's. 
"Spending in Texas has almost doubled, while spend­ing under Clinton has been increased by 20 percent," he said. 
At a rally in Livonia, he added that Bush had been a 
supporter  or  las.l  year's  
omnibus  spending  bill  in  
Congress,  a  measure  he said  

contained the "most outra­geous purk barreling spend­ing." 
"I voted against it," said McCain, who represents Arizona in the Senate. "Governor Bush said he'd support it and sign it." 
To renew his appeal to inde­pendents, McCain criticized Bush's record on campaign finance reform in scathing terms. 
"Governor Bush is the gov­ernor of a state that has the most liberal campaign contri­bution laws," he said. 
"If Governor Bush is a reformer, I'm an astronaut," he said. 
He also said Bush takes credit for HMO reform in his state, when in fact, "he vetoed the bill once and allowed it to become law without his signa­ture." 
Bush spokesman Ari Fleischer said Bush vetoed the original HMO bill because it gave a blanket exemption for the state's largest IIMOs and that he subsequently issued patients' rights regulations treating all the same. I le said the governor allowed the sec­ond bill to become law with­out his signature as a way of signaling trial lawyers not to abuse a provision that allows IIMOs to be sued after an independent review. 
As to spending, Fleischer 
Delegate 
tally 
Here ii. me current bea!o,down or p1esidenti(lll preie,er'!Ce<S 01 ooiegate$ to t.rie Dt1rnocratlc and Aepubhear, n11110<'l&l t1.:fwt1nlloos. 
-~HtIMiJii+.i+i 
Gore 42 eradley z1 \Jn:cmrniuad u 
JOHl &1.! 
Needed to rx:i:ninate 2,ue TOI/II i;teleg(!te 'IOle& 4,33ft 
aus:h &1 M;;C.r:i,n 14 ¥.eyes 4 Vncorr,mitted 12 TO'l'At. tt ~ro nominate 1.,034 T.::>1al OO!<llga1e ,,otes 2.,064 


said spending increased only 2 percent under Bush when adjusted for inflation and a growing population. Ile added that Bush cut the rate of spending growth in half ­again adjusted for inflation and demographics. 
By the time of his arrival in East Lansing, McCain had sharpened his message fur­ther, saying, "who do you want, a big spender, non­reformP;,r, or the guy with the record. 
Despite his drubbing in South Carolina, McCain appeared upbeat throughout the day. Sitting in cramped quarters aboard his campaign bus, he joked that the lucky shoes he wears every day have a new name: "unlucky shoes." 


Saint Mary's College 
Student Activities Board 
Applications for 2000-2001 Chairwomen Positions Available at Haggar College Center Front Desk From Monday, February 14th To Friday, February 25th 
Available Positions: 
Marketing Chairwoman Innovation Chairwoman Entertainment Chairwomen (2) Traditional Events Chairwomen (2) School Spirit Chairwoman Treasurer Movies & Munchies Chairwoman 
www.saintmarvs.edu/ ~sah Questions? Contact Allison Webb at ext. 4379 

Monday, February 21, 2000 The Obsenm . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
ISRAEL 
Leaders express concerns for talks 
Associated Press 
JERUS/\LEM 

A recent surge of anti-Israel rhetoric in the Arab world prompted Israeli leaders to express concnn Sunday for the future of the p e a c e process. 
Following a broak­down in peace talks, Arab media has com­p a r e d Israelis to N1tzis and ,tttackP.d thr,m with imagery con­vPntionallv associated with the worst anti:Semitic excesses. 
"We have to b<' conrerned about thr question or how Lhc Arab world pPrcnivPs IsntPI." Forl'ign Minister David Lf'V}' told lsraP-li radio. "Is Lhc wave which has arisen today an ('xpression of' that hidden thought in the !marts ol'many people there?" 
Prime Minister Ehu<l Barak rrferrcd to the phonomenon in tlw wct>kly Cabinet meeting. say­ing that such "incitl'menf' doPs not contribute to the pear,e process. 
Peace talks with Syria broke down last month. and talks with tlrn Palestinians foundered this month -in both cases over Israeli territorial concessions. 
The breakdown in Syrian talks was followed bv an escalation of dashes betwe~n Israeli troops and guerrillas in Lebanon, where Syria L'i the main power. 
As the violence escalated. offi-cial Svrian media accused Israel of carrying out Nazi-like strikes, and of grossly exaggerating the Holocaust to win international support. 


Echoing his Syrian patrons, Lebanese President Emile Lahoud condemned Israeli poli­cies as "crimes inherited from the Nazi school." 
In a country where as much as a third of thP Jewish population comprises llolocaust survivors or their descendanlo;;, such language cuts deeply into tho national psy­che -and could hamper l3arak's efforts to garner publir, support for eventual peace deals. 
"From a historic point of view it is horrific, a deception," ShC\ab Weiss, a llolocausl sur­vivor and a former speaker of parliament who backs the peace process, said of the comparisons with thP 
Nazis. 

"Waves  "We have to be concerned  Haider. suggests  
n r llatred." read the f r o n t  about the question of how the Arab world perceives Israel.···  that there is some­thing very deeply !wrong] here." Levy said.  
p  a  g  e  Levy said Israel  
headline i n Sunday's  David Levy foreign minister  was also stung by the support Egyptian President  
Maariv  Hosni  Mubarak  
daily over  expressed for the  

an article that said Barak was Lebanese in a high-profile week­"embarrassed" by the outbursts. end visit, in which he said guer­
The rhetoric could stem, in rilla attacks that have killed part, from frustration with the seven Israeli troops in recent sympathy Israel enjoys in the weeks are "a result, not a cause," West because of the Holocaust, oflsrael's presence in Lebanon. when Nazis and their allies in Barak dispatched two of his top German-occupied Europe mur­advisers to Egypt on Sunday, dered 6 million Jews. apparently seeking answers 
The Arabs "have no idea what about the Mubarak visit. 
to do with the fact of the Holocaust and that it gets tremendous sympathy, and have no effective way to deal with it," said Garry Rubin, a Syria expert at Bar llan L:niversitv. 
Israeli anger is exacerbated when such images appear in countries with which it has already signed peace treaties. 
A cartoon in the pro-govern­ment Egyptian newspaper, /\1­Ahram. depicted Barak standing on an t\rab boy to reach an Austrian ballot box, which he is defacing with a swastika. 
The suggestion is that Barak's condemnation of the inclusion of Joerg Haider's anti-immigrants party in the Austrian coalition is hypocritical, given Israel's treat­ment of the Lebanese. 
Such images "among those with whom we are at peace, who 
compare us to 
Hitler and cheer 
ITALY 

Police close roads to blow up bo01b 
Associated Press 
ROME 
Italy shut down a central stretch of its major north­south rail and road routes and evacuated hundreds of people Sunday to blow up a newly uncovered American­made bomb dropped in World War II. 
The rustl':d bomb contained about 550 pounds of TNT, authorities said. Explosives experts deemed it too fragile to dig out or disarm. Instead. 
they excaYated 

"I remember it well. It e d
a crater and used plastic was raining bombs every­opening 
a recep­

explosives Lo where and rail cars were 
tion cen­
destrov the 

falling in flames in the ter for
bomb from afar. "Perfectly Paglia. It seems like the few 
who did

successful," I can still hear peoplP 
not leave
said Lt. CoL 

screammg. a n d
F a b i o 
u s i n g
Commellini, one 
am bu ­

of the leaders of Filivio Rossi lances to
the explosives 

area resident 
team. 
An allied war­plane dropped the bomb near Terni, about 40 miles east of Rome, on Jan. 28, 1944, when much of Italy was under German occupa­tion. The bomb landed in the Paglia River, near a rail route. 
"I remember it well. It was raining bombs everywhere and rail cars were falling in flames in the Paglia," said 
evacuate 
the sick 

to hospi­tals for the day. 
The explosives team may have more work ahead of it _ officials said Sunday they had found another unexplod­ed World War II bomb in the same area, this one at the foot of a railway bridge. Authorities did not immedi­ately announce their plans for that bomb. 
Filivio Rossi. a 72-year-old resident of the area. "It seems like I can still hear people screaming." 
It was Rossi who spotted the bomb on what apparently was a newly dried stretch of riverbed on Feb. 13. mistak­ing it at first for a stone. 
Sunday, authorities rerout­ed traffic in both directions on the A-1 autostrada and the Home-Florence rail route in case of any trouble with the detonation. Officials ordered about 500 nearby 
residents 
evacuat-

KNOW WHERE WE,VE BEEN.. IT'S·HARD TO 
..::roic..E· 
TEN CO.Ul 
··JE·
···1··v·· ·:t··•., ····n·· . 
.• ·.~:· •...•·.·...•.:..• ·.:''.. . ·.'-. ..·.·.·.:'.:/.·:C.:.­
· .....••.•·• ·· •. :-: ..•••.··;: .:·.·.·.--. 
INVENT·.lO 
··.n.··.·.·••.··•··.··•N·.·~ .. ·....·..·.·.·•···•.··A·•·.·••····.p·.•.•.L.··•r
""'•-~• 
.. . . . . .. 
..,,~,.--'.iL..·•.·.·.·.4_,.·E A.·· iH··· ·.·.I\.·.•·T· lJ···'·•·D·.--.. ,_v:
..f\\C)J{'I... Js_._ '.•. •.'.··.. · 
/>:x··oREAr·t 
·1,·Nvf...\ ".>.\:N·.} ·1;···•'· '•'":c..,·•·\•
..· ·" \ 
., _.''. . ' . .'--,_.., ',.,-·-' "-·,_ ::;:/ :::J~; 
WOQ.DSt)E··· 
·s··y·.. ori>·.. •··E...·. ~'"A.·<,;;:
.... --•--();·--, ...,. '1V:"t-· 
CONDUCTIN 
,, ··.,c/:~_•r:r:::<.-.:<. i_:::.~\:¥rtr:,_: :.-.. ,,:.:::·,:<t(::.:;
Al[JED lN} H•.EAQ....... RA~i•.RQ~•···..·. 
. .· ....• :.it .,<:Fk"-:1· ·... •;it"•<''·r 
NAACP PRESENTS: 

MOMENTS IN OURp•Hrs·fbRY.. CELEBRATING BLJ\CKRIST'()ftY MONTH 
TO KNOW WHERE WE'RE GOING WE MU.S1 FIRST 
WHOWAS 
:H,~.AGE Of OVERff'THIRTY­;M 1--lmAN I.CA[
Wi~.Q~, OHIO 
l?JS:····t·ItE·RALLY .B.:':/HEWAS
,.,'·\~;f:,::· 

ED'A "'·l•Gii:
:=,"' -~=·:· . 
S:l<WHICH 

tBtt OVE~ 

Police break up sweatshop protest 
Associated Press 
MADISON. Wis. 

Fifty-four anti-sweatshop protesters were arrested Sunday at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, ending a four-day sit-in in the chancel­lor's office. 
The protesters. who had been occupying Chancellor David Ward's office since Wednesdav. had listed seven demands.' most designed to give manu­facturers less sway in 
factory mon­"The issue had been 
become

itoring 
resolved. It had become clear the
accords that 
issue was no

universities clear the issue was no 
longer

agreed to a longer sweatshops." sweat­
year ago. 
shops."

W a r d 
Amy Toburen Collegiate
a g r e e d 
licensing is a

Friday to university spokeswoman 
$2.5 billion 

one of the demands ­entering the Workers Hights Consortium, a factory moni­toring group that includes workers and human rights organizations. The consor­tium was developed by stu­dents. 
Roger Howard, the associate vice chancellor for student services at Wisconsin, said last week that the WHC is still in the developmental stage and hasn't yet had a founding convention. 
Sarah Spohn. a member of the anti-sweatshop group, said Ward's support of the workers consortium was luke­warm and criticized the chan­cellor for not negotiating directly with students. 
"The issue had been resolved," university spokes­woman Amy Toburen said fol­lowing the 54 arrests. "It had 
business 

nationwide. Some merchandise has been found to be produced under swealshop conditions in the United States and abroad. 
The University of Michigan and Indiana University also joined the factory monitoring group on Friday. 
Vatican gives details on Pope's Egypt trip 
• Trip kicks off the Jubillee year journeys to ancient biblical sites 
Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY 

Pilgrims waved a "Buon Viaggio" banner in St. Peter's Square on Sunday, wishing Pope John Paul II well on his upcoming 
trip to Egypt and to the spot where tradition says God 
spoke  to  
M  o s  e  s  
from  a  



b u r n i n g John Paul II bush. 
John Paul's trip, which begins Thursday, will be his first to Egypt. It is the kickoff of the pontiff's 2000 Holy Year pilgrimages to ancient biblical sites. 
He intends to pray at what tradition says is the Mount Sinai site of the burning bush, where God commanded Moses to lead the children of Israel out of Egypt, the Vatican missionary news ser­vice Fides said Sunday in a more detailed but still unoffi­cial outline of the itinerary. 
John Paul made no mention of his upcoming trip during his regular Sunday appear­ance before pilgrims in St. Peter's Square. He seemed strong and alert, waving at cheers from the crowd below. 
The pontiff is to arrive in Cairo on Thursday, greeted by Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and Catholic bish­ops, Fides said. 
In Cairo, John Paul will visit the head of the Coptic Orthodox Church in Egypt and the imam. or cleric, of Al­Azhar University, Sheik Mohammed Sayed Tantawi. He is the highest authority of the world's Sunni Muslims. 
"The symbolic force of the event is very great. Even if it is a visit of protocol, it will be much more effective than talking," Ali al Samman of the school's commission for Muslim-Christian dialogue was quoted as telling Fides. 
Friday, the pope will attend a Mass to be celebrated in French, Arab and Coptic in Cairo's sport stadium. A cele­bration will follow in a tiny Coptic cathedral, with all leaders of Egypt's Christian denominations expected to take part. 
Christians make up an esti­mated 11 percent of Egypt's 63 million people. The vast majority of Christians there are Coptic Orthodox. 
On Saturday, John Paul flies to tho 6th-century St. Catherine's monasl.erv al. the foot of Mount Sinai. ihe pope plans to pray at the site of the burning bush and preside over a prayer meeting for hundreds of young people in the monastery's garden. Fides said. 
The pope has previously stressed "the purely religious, not political'' nature of his travels into the heart of Middle East conflicts this year. From March 20 to 26, he will visit sites in Israel and the Palestinian territories. 
Galileo will Inake risky lllission 
• Orbiter travels to Jupiter's volcanic moon lo 
Associated Press 
PASADENA, Calif. 
Galileo will make its closest flyby of Jupiter's volcanic moon Io this week as con­trollers race to put it through ever riskier maneuvers before the aging spacecraft conks 
out. 
Mission managers acknowl­edge the risks but say they want to make the most of what will likely be the space­craft's final months. Galileo. circling the solar system's largest planet for more than four years, long ago exceeded expectations. 
"We've done the job," said Jim Erickson, Galileo's pro­ject manager at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory. "Now we're getting to see how much more we can milk it." 
On Tuesday, the 2 1/2-ton orbiter will fly within 124 miles of Io in a maneuver that will bombard the probe with immense radiation. Previous orbits near Lhe fiery moon crippled Galileo's computer, though engineers managed to restart it each time. 
Galileo is tentatively sched­uled to zoom by the moon Ganymede in May and December. Discussions are under way about future plans, including a possible suicide plunge into Jupiter's atmosphere. 
Nobody expects the $1.4 bil­lion probe to last forever. It has been on an extended mis­sion since completing its pri­mary goals in 1997, Fuel for maneuvering is running low, navigation equipment is fail­ing, and Galileo has encoun­tered twice as much radiation as it was designed to with­stand. 

Engineers say the risks of extreme maneuvers are bal­anced by the potential science returns. 
"The possibility that there is going to be a failure is always there," Erickson said. "We're way past warranty and we're incrementally pushing our luck, but that's a good thing to do." 
In October. Galileo flew within 380 miles of Io, reveal­ing what may be the most vol­canically active body in the solar system. The spacecraft found more than 100 volca­noes, some of which spewed 2,700-degree lava and vented gases miles inlo space. 
A month later, Galileo flew within 186 miles of the sur­face. Its camera captured lava spurting more than a mile high, Engineers were kept busy as the 
It is the best evidence yet that an ocean similar to that of Earth exists elsewhere in the solar system -and that raises the possibility of life. 

Galileo also detected a mag­netic field around the moon Callisto, which is now believed to have a molten core like Earth. Galileo also found, for the first time. that Jupiter has Earth-style thun­derstorms in addition to the monstrous, swirling storms that Earth astronomers have seen through telescopes for centuries. 
"There's kind of a food chain on Jupiter. The largest storms seem to sustain them­selves by merging -eating almost the smaller storms," said Andrew Ingersoll of the California Institute of Technology. "We never knew where the small­er storms got their energy, 
and now we 
do." 

space­craft's computer  "With each _flyby we get new and different  At first, nothing seemed to go  
shut down h o u r s  observations. "  right for the spacecraft,  
before  which  is  
closest  Torrence Johnson  named after  
approach. "With  project scientist  the Italian astronomer  
each flyby  who  first  
we  get  observed  

new and different observa­Jupiter's largest moons in tions," said Torrence 1610. Its launch, originally Johnson, Galileo's project sci­scheduled for 1986, was entist. "This time, we expect delayed for three years by the to be able to observe the deadly explosion of the space effects of the eruptions we shuttle Challenger. saw in the October and Galileo finallv was launched November flybys." in 1989 from the space shut­
Spying volcanoes is just one tle Atlantis. Instead of a of Galileo's achievements. In direct, two-year voyage, it January, during a flyby of the took a circuitous route using moon Europa, the spacecraft the gravity of Venus and made what may be its most Earth to slingshot to its desti­memorable finding: Magnetic nation. In all, it traveled 2.3 field disturbances that strong­billion miles over six years, ly suggest a saltwater ocean finally arriving in December exists beneath the icy crust. 1995. 
Student Government Invites Student Nominations for The 1999-2000 Irish Clover Awards and the Frank O'Malley Undergraduate Teaching Award 
Each year Irish Clover Awards are presented to one undergraduate student and one administrator, faculty, rector, or staff member of the Notre Dame Community who have demonstrated outstanding service to the students at the University of Notre Dame. 
The Frank O'Malley Undergraduate Teaching Award is awarded to amember of the Faculty who has stimulated academic creativity and personal development in and outside the classroom. 
Letters of Nomination may be submitted to the Student Government Office, 203 Lafortune by Wednesday, March ist. If you have questions, Please call the office at 631-7668. 

VIEWPOINT 
page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sou,h Diniug Hall. Notre Dome, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHll::F 
Michelle Krupa 

MI\NAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon ·J!.pn  David Rogero  
I  
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR  
I..iura Pecslle  

NEWS En!ToR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen G~ugh~n SrORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARY'S FDITOR: ]\;oreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Oalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANA.GER: Bret Huelac SYSTFMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Eiik Kushw 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CoNTAC1 Us OFFICE MANAuERIGENEAAL lNf0.............. 631-7471 
FAX.......... ................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF......................................631-4542 M-\NAGING EoJTOR/AssT. ME. ................... 631-454 l BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIFWl'OINT.. ...............................................631-5303 
observer .viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu ScENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MA.RY'S.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. J@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobserver.ndedu for daily updaces ofcampus news. sports, features and opinion columns. as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 

minme forecascs 
weekly student reviews 

advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

Jnd races of print ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer 

articles publ i,hed after 
to meer the editors and 

August 1999 
scaff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independenr, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofche University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrenr, including advercisemems, is not governed by policies of the adminisrrarion ofeicher inscitution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisemems based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent che opinion of the majoricy ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assiscam Managing Editor and depanmenr ediwrs. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through leners is encouraged. Leners ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qrmtiom regnrding Observer po/icier should be dirert­ed IO Editor i11 ChiefMichellc Kruptl. 
OBSERVER 


It has not been a good couple of weeks for Notre Dame as far as diversi­ty and inclusion are concerned. 
Just after a moving celebration of M~rtin Luther King Bridget Jr. s legacy, a O'C 
series of publicly onnor embarrassing Guest 
events have detracted from the Columnist celebration's mes­sage. These include another student body presiden­tial election from an all-white and almost all-male pool of candidates, a racially offensive cartoon about Kofi Annan, the attempt of the student body to express its moral judgment on a University of Connecticut basketball player, an alumni letter expressing a common dismissive attitude toward women's sports and early indications that Missy Conboy will be overlooked for the vacant athletic director position. 
Friday was the anniversary of politi­cal pioneer Barbara Jordan's death. Jordan was, and remains, an example of success despite the odds. Her unique leadership style established her legacy as a great leader. That she was also both black and a woman made her sue­cess that much more significant. Unfortunately, it is clear that her achievements and example have gone unnoticed here at Notre Dame. 
Although the lack of any ethnically diverse candidates can be traced to the absence of diversity among the student body, the lack of female candidates is a phenomenon that is more difficult to pin down. According to enrollment num­hers, roughly half of the candidates should have been women, but there were none for the presidential slot and only one for vice president. Women seem to have no problem running for offices like hall senator and hall presi­dent, where they are only competing against other women, but they shy away from campus-wide campaigns. Instead of one specific cause, this is probably due to a combination of fac­tors. 
First, gender relations being what they are at the University, perhaps women do not want to be perceived as pushy, assertive or, heaven forbid, ambitious. 
The climate of political indifference among students also makes outward support or encouragement for uncon­ventional candidates unlikely. Perhaps potential female candidates have heard accounts of the kind of reactions women have received in the past when they have taken the risk to run. Even if comments like, "But you're a girl -you can't be president" are made in jest, when they are made in a non-inclusive environment such as this campus, they must be understood to hold some ele­ment of truth_ 
But ultimately, why would any female at this school believe that a) anyone would want a woman in a leadership position, orb) that a woman in such a position would have any influence? From the highest levels of the adminis­tration women are not included, so it should be no surprise that the student leadership is no exception. Of the 12 University officers, only two are women. The setup of the professional realm mirrors that of the student realm: Participation by women at the lower levels is fine, but the top spots are for the men. 
The athletic director vacancy, for example, is an opportunity for the administration to change this pattern. University president Father Edward Malloy announced last week that the search for the new athletic director would be extended to a national search. What was not said in his announcement was whether that meant they had already overlooked the most logical option or whether Missy Conboy was still a candidate. 
Highly successful first as a collegiate athlete and then as an associate athletic director, a Notre Dame grad and one of a select few who are already intricately familiar with the workings and needs of the athletic department, Conboy is a natural fit for the job. Like Jordan, that beyond her exceptional qualifications she is a woman in an environment des-
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT 

Monday, February 21, 2000 
perately in need of female leadership only enhances her credentials. Further, her appointment would send a strong message to contradict sentiments like those expressed by a 1964 alum's letter to the editor in which he referred to women's sports as "title IX sports" and stated that "the only sports that really matter" are men's basketball and foot­ba!l. Maybe he has not been back to the school since 1964, but what he refers to as "title IX sports" have been the only thing worth notice for some time now. Judging by attendance at events, how­ever, many others share his view. 
Barbara Jordan would not have expected us to sit back and expect the administration alone to make all the tough choices and changes. She called upon the public as a whole to "Pay rent on the space that you occupy," meaning that everyone involved -and especially the student body -must take owner­ship of the situation, step out of the comfort zone and make real efforts to make Notre Dame a welcoming place for everyone. In a place where so many talk and act on issues of social justice, it is irresponsible for us to ignore the environment that minorities experience here and that dissuades more minori­ties from attending. What we as stu­dents can do is demand more intensive efforts at diversifying the student body, opening our own eyes and minds to new ideas and cultures, being mindful of our own words and actions and taking a stand when something occurs that detracts from successful diversity. 
At some point, along with administra­tive and campus-wide initiatives to facilitate successful diversity, underrep­resented students must also follow Barbara Jordan's lead by breaking into the ranks of the "old boys club." By being qualified, confident, strong and bold, a handful of women and minori­ties can establish a new tradition of representation. 
Bridget is a senior. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer 
QUOTE OF THE DAV 
"The Lord gave you two ends. One for sitting and one for thinking. Your success depends on which you use. Heads, you win; tails, you lose." 
Marian Anderson African-American vocalist 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Monday, February 21, 2000 BSERVER page 10 
Benetton exploits 
murder victims 
For seventh and eighth grade, I attended John Young Middle School in Mishawaka. Among my classmates was a kid named Mike Fulford, who lived across the· street from me. Mike and I never got along tremen­dously wPll-in fact. he once chal­lenged me to a fight after school. However, his sister, Annie, was nice to me. I went to Marian High School and she attended \tlishawaka High School. so we were never really close after that. Her boyfriend, Leif, was planning on proposing to her on her 18th birthday, April 17, 1997. 
Annie Fulford was murdered on Dec. 20. 1996, when she and Leif interrupted a burglary at Mike's trailer. Leif, in some insane attempt to get revenge on the four African-Americans involved in Annie's death, went on a random shooting rampage of blacks on the near northwest side of South Bend between Feb. 12 and 26, 1997. 
When Annie and I attended Young, clothes made bv the Italian-based company· Benetton were the rage. How atrociously ironic, then, that last month Benetton introduced "We, On Death Row," a "photo essay" of more than two dozen death row inmates from penitentiaries in North Carolina, Kentucky, Illinois, Missouri and l\ebraska, desecrating the memory of Annie and other innocent victims like her. 
Although neither Leif nor any of the men responsible for Annie's death await execution, I am still affected by someone who does. On March 4, 1989, one of my mother's friends from high school, Lisa Bianco, was bludgeoned to death with a shot­gun barrel by her ex-husband, Alan .\fatheney. He was on an eight-hour pass from prison, where he was serving a sentence for battery hecansP he abused her. Matheney has exploited almost every appeal defense imaginable, including that Bianco and then-Saint Joseph County Prosecutor Michael Barnes were romantically involved and therefore arranged. for his conviction. Two of his· appeals wern denied by the U.S. Supreme Court. Nine vears have passed since his original execu­tion date. 
The "We, On Death Row" ad campaign by Benetton is not their first project that has sparked rontroversv. Other bor­derline-outrageous 0 Benetton ads featured a baby with its umbili­cal cord still attached, two hors­es having sex and a priest kiss­ing a nun. Benetton defends "We, On Death Row" as a "photo essay" that serves as a "means for reviving debate over the death penalty." This is a blatant smokescreen to hide a flagrant political statement that exploits · the victims of heinous crimes to sell clothing. 


Furthermore, seven inmates wern offenid $1,000 to shoot tho ad, in accordance with a European law that requires com­pensation for anyone pictured in an advertisement. Two inmates accepted, one of whom is Nebraska convict Jeremy Sheets. 
Although the ad campaign only lists Sheets as being incarcerat­ed for first-degree murder and the use of a knife in the commis­sion of a felony, what Benetton doesn't tell you is that he was convicted of raping and murder­ing a 17 -year-old honors stu­dent, although he maintains his innocence. 
An overwhelming majority of the questions asked were softball lobs covering everything from politics and sports to their child­hoods. By overlooking the violent nature of the crimes, "We, On Death Row" explicitly attempts to sympathize with the convicted vicious criminals interviewed. 
Benetton is beginning to feel the backlash of its campaign, and rightly so. The British watchdog group Advertising Standards Authority is reviewing the program and might pull the ad and place Benetton under future probation. 
Sears has pulled all Benetton USA clothing from all 400 of its stores that carry the line. Missouri's Attorney General is suing Benetton, claiming that they fraudulently misrepresent­ed interviews with four inmates as being sponsored by the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers and that the interviews would appear in Newsweek. 
Protests are underway at the United Colors of Benetton flag­ship store in New York and at another outlet in Houston. Five parents of victims of the "We, On Death Row" inmates were on hand at the New York demon­stration. John Peebles remarked on how his child's killer stated in his interview that he hasn't felt rain in 13 years: "He hasn't played in the rain in 13 years? He didn't even give my son 13 seconds. He just mowed him down." The tragic irony for me is that Peebles' son Edward was shot during a botched robbery. 
If the statements of those par­ents aren't enough, then listen to Lisa Bianco's mother Millie: "By glorifying and representing those who are character-deficient, we move in direct opposition to what is best for our society. We remove accountability and the rights uf victims." 
That's the bottom line. Whatever Benetton's purpose for "We, On Oeath Row," they reopened wounds of not only the families of the victims of those inmates portrayed, but also any­one even marginally affected by acts of violent criminals. 
Mike Marchand would like to dedicate this column to the mem­ory ofAnnie Fulford, April 17, 1979-Dec.20, 1997. May she 
The uiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Loophole tangles bylaws 
There exists an apparent loophole in the election bylaws. Any supporter of a candidate is not allowed to break the campaign rules. This leaves the door wide open to a malicious sabotage of one ticket by some random person who claims to be a supporter. This person can simply send out a couple of e-mails to some key campus figures and make a mockery of the election process. While I don't foe) that this is what happened in the current election, 1 believe it is clear that the current bylaws need to be very closely examined and PUBLICIZED so that no student unknowingly breaks the rules. 

Michael J. La Mora Senior Alumni Hall February I 8. 2000 

Student Senate overreacts 
l would like to thank the Student Senate for taking time away from everything else to decry the obvious "racial stereotyping" that appeared in a recent Observer comic. Obviously, calling U.N. Ambassador Kofi Annan a rap star was blatantly putting this man down. 
Now that I've gotten my sarcasm out of the way, let me say that that was one of the most narrow-minded statements I've seen in a very long time. No one in their right mind saw this as anything close to the "alien" joke a few years back. Why'? Because it was not the same type of thing. No one should be offended by the Annan joke, and if they are, then I pity them. 
For the sophomore and freshman classes who may not have a clue about what I just said, allow me to explain: 
About two years ago, during Halloween, a romic ran enti­tled "Quick And Easy Costumes," or something like that. The first three were either funny or absurd-or both -but the last one caused quite a stir. The comic strip writer drew a picture of a Mexican fellow and labeled him an "alien," with the sub-caption "a Mexican without a green card." When I saw that, I admit, I did chuckle at the play on words. However, I also knew right then that a lot of people were going to be offended by that remark, and they should have been -to a degree. It was not exactly the most tasteful joke ever done, but it did get blown out of proportion a bit., as do most matters here. (NOTE: Most of those things, like the best way to eat, really do not matter. This did.) 
I bring this up because apparently the Student Senate felt that the joke in clarifying to business students that Mr. Annan was the 
U.N. Secretary General and not a rap star, was a similar racial joke darn~ in poor taste. I know this was not the case because I did not meet a single person discussing this the day that it ran, or the day after. In fact, until I read about the Student Senate's "action" against the comic, l had not even thought of that as a pos­sibility. Comparing that to two years past, when nearly every class I went to, large or small, was buzzing with discussion about it, I believe the Student Senate overreacted. 
It was not a joke on Mr. J\nnan's race, it was a joke about business students, who are fre­quently the butt of many jokes, much like Arts and Letters students, of which I am one. Mr. 

Annan himself. I do not believe, was made fun of in any way, shape or form. To compare the joke to calling Madeline Albright a "house­wife" is very erroneous. That would have been very blatant stereotyping and in maybe worse taste than the "alien" quip. There was no racial or ethnic type of statement in the comic, nor was it in poor taste in anyone's opinion, save apparently these few. 
I would also like to ask where the Student Senate was when Joe Kernan, another recent commencement speaker, needed defense? He had no car­
--~ toon about him that I remem­--_ -ber, but there were a great -many students who wrote 
letters whining and com­plaining (I know, shock­ing) that Mr. Kernan, then mayor of South Bend, and currently Lt. Governor of Indiana, was not a 
"big enough" or "important enough" or what­
ever other "enough" of' a man to be the 
keynote speaker for Notre Dame's gradu­ating class. This was a man who was a POW in war, earned several medals of honor for his service (Purple Heart, anyone?) 
and then, when he could have restPd on pen­
-sion, decided to 
continue his civil service work in politics, being one 

of the best mayors that South Bend ever had. I am thrilled that Mr. Annan is coming here, as he is a great man, one of the greatest of his gen­eration. I have the utmost respect for him. as I would for any man in his position. They do not just hand out U.N. positions to random people (Well, thnrc was 
Ginger Spice ... ). But I think Mr. Annan. to get where he is today, must have had some ability to laugh at jokes. That is not to say that some words he may have heard growing up were appropriate terms, but I am sure he has a sense of humor. Whether he would laugh at this, who knows, but I sincerely doubt he would be offended. Now, if the Senate will kindly get back to more important things, like campaign reform, instead of waiting for the chance to hand out the semi-annual "Morally Decrepit Cartoon of the Year" award, we can all be happy. 
And, most importantly, we can laugh at jokes in good taste. 
Bradley Mahnke Junior Siegfried Hall February 19, 2000 
WWW<W 

VIEWPOINT 
Monday, February 21, 2000 
page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

ACE def ends program 
We wish to thank the authors or a recent letter for calling attention to the perception that ACE. though "worthwhile and commendable." may represent a last resort for many Notre Dame seniors in the C'.nllcge of Arts and Lettf1rs. Our hunch is that this perci)ption is not widely held, but on behalf of the exceptional­ly generous and talented appli­cants to ACE. we felt it important to respond. 
First. we arc heartened that ACE is perceived as a post-grad­uate service. Indeed, service through teaching is fundamental to ACE's identitv and mission. At the same time. ACE provides its participants with a first-rate graduate degree and two years of employment experience. in large part so that their service may be as effective as possible and be connected to the discern­nrnnt of their professional call­ing. be that in education or some other area. 
This year's applicants to ACE am similar to their forerunners in that they hav(i multiple options for employment, profes­sional school. and other gradu­ate programs -this fact is one mason why their generosity is so moving; ACE tf,achers give abun­dantlv. Thev also receive abun­dantly, not so much in economic terms (though a tuition-fre-e Notre Dame master's dngree is no trivial benefit) as in thn chal­lenges that lead to pflrsonal. pro­fessional and spiritual growth. 
ACE alumni have achieved professional success in diverse fidds. The majority have stayed in Catholic education to this point, but former ACE teachers are currently enrolled in gradu­atn. law and medical schools at sonrn of the nation's most presti­gious institutions (Ilarvard, Stanford and Duke to name a l'cw). Others have entered corpo­rate America with great success. Many have returned to work at Notre Dame. Most claim that teaching is the hardest thing they've rver done, and thry're grateful for the experience. 
Both Jake and Ashley were correct in stating that liberal arts students arc well rounded and possess a diverse array of skills and abilities suitable for many career opportunities. Hecnntly, The Career Center has initiated some exciting career programs and services for Arts & Letters students that may not yet be known by the wider campus community. 
For example, we hired a new A&L career counselor to expand individual career advising and group programming on campus. We created a special Arts & Letters career newsletter featur­ing two fall editions with intern­ship listings, job leads, career exploration information and rel­evant web sites. We implement­ed new Career Center on-call hours for :\&I. students in O'Shaughnessy and LaFortune Halls every Monday afternoon. 
We increased the number of liberal arts students who sched­uled individual appointments during fall semester from 307 in 1995 to 552 this past fall semes­ter. Our internship job fair fea­tured a new "resume drop"that inl.'.reased the number of sum­mer opportunities for students. Currently, we are planning an A&L Job Fair and have early commitments from such organi­zations as the U.S. Department of Justice. ABC News. ESPN. John Wiley Publishing, Brown & Wood International Law, Easter Seals. Chicago Tribune, U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission and many others. 
These are only a few examples of The Career Center's future direction. Many non-business employers hire A&L graduates in April. May and even after gradu­ation. Non-profit organizations, advertising/public relations agencies, educational institu­tions, international companies, public policy think tanks and publishing houses are examples of "just in time" recruiters. That means most of these employers do not hire in advance like banks and consulting firms. 
Thus, many A&L prospective employers do not visit many col­lege campuses. However, it will continue to be our duty to find these career opportunities and communicate the application strategies to A&L students. We also need to tap into the Notre Dame alumni network to gain contacts and career leads that will open doors to the "hidden job market." 
Finally, it is important to note that many candidates for ACE do not hail from the college of Arts and Ll'tters. This year we have applicants from every college at Notre Uame, including Engineering and Architecture. Three clwmirnl engineering majors from last year (graduates with many options) currently teach with ACE, including the University's valedictorian. From its inception. ACE has been blessed with widespread interest across the campus. We are humbly grateful and can only hope and pray that this trend continues. 
Lee Svete 
Director The Career Center 

John Staud Administrative Director Alliance for Catholic Education 
February 17, 2000 

Violation made unknowingly 
The first news that I received of an Election Day violation was a phone call from The Observer between 9-10 p.m. Thursday night. 
I was shocked to hear that an e-mail I wrote to my fri1mds, my section mates and my busi­ness group members would disqualify the Hanoverf.v1icek ticket. I have known Hunt Hanover since I was his Freshman Retreat Leader my· sophomore year. After that, we participated on ;'IJDE together and have kept in contact ever since. J sent out that e-mail because l wanted to let my friends know that I knew Hunt and that I thought he was a great guy. It was not intended to be campaign mate­rial. In the e-mail, I encouraged my friends to simply vote, no matter which candidates they picked. The e-mail that I sent out was of my own doing and the Hanover/Micek ticket never asked me to send it. Having no affiliation with student government, I never knew that it was against election bylaws to e-mail individuals in regard to the election. 
The main reason that I did not know these rules is that the election bylaws are not dis­tributed to students. This bylaw, that neither I nor the rest of the student body was aware of, was only passed two weeks ago. 

Another bylaw that I was not aware of, as I am sure is the case of the majority of Notre Dame students, is that you cannot send out e­mails or anything else that is considered cam­paigning after midnight the day of the elec­tion. Because I was not aware of this, and because I sent out my e-mail less than three hours after the deadline, it was considered another violation of the bylaws. 
I hope that you, the Judicial Council and student body, understand my actions and sec that i.t was never my intention or desire to bend or break any campaign rules. I just wish that someone would have informed Notre Dame students of these rules so that a situa­tion, like this one. would have never occurred. 
Michael Fairchild Senior Alumni Hall February 19, 2000 

Ivers sends message of hope, community 
Father Mike Ivers spoke a message of hope about a vibrant Catholic community last week. We were among the many students and teach­ers who attended an incredibly inspiring and challenging talk last Tuesday entitled "Call to be Church After Church in the African­American Community." 
Father Mike is pastor of St. Agatha's, an African-American parish in inner city Chicago. St. Agatha's is situated in a neighborhood that many would be ready to reject as violent and hopeless -49 percent of residents live below the poverty line, 67 percent of students drop out of local high schools and gangs are an all too tragic reality. 
But the parishioners have responded to these challenges by providing safe places for youth. educational assistance and parenting classes and countless other outreach and sup­port programs. As Father Mike describes, the St. Agatha's community strives to continue "Church After Church." Dance, music, drama and preaching shape the celebration of Sunday liturgy, and each parishioner regularly reaches out to welcome new members into this thriving Catholic community. Father Mike remarks that, "The streets of Chicago are ALIVE" with the Spirit of Christ, and he encourages the Notre Dame community to share in St. Agatha's mission. We are chal­lenged to face racism, sexism and violence with the courage and compassion modeled by Jesus Christ. 
Given this energizing message, we were dis­appointed by the representation of Father Mike's speech in The Observer. The article focused almost solely on a comment by Father Mike that the Catholic Church is a "racist and sexist institution." 
We respond today in order to clarify this remark, and also to lift up the message of hope that was the heart of Father Mike's speech. In Luke 5:4, Jesus urges the disciples to, "Put out into deep water and lower your nets for a catch." Father Mike suggests that we too must push beyond our normal comfort­able circles and delve into "deep waters" to foster relationships and build community. Father Mike did in fact say that the Church is a racist and sexist institution. Since we make up this Church, we need to go into the deep water and address these issues. 
Witnessing the example of Father Mike, who has given his whole life to service and love for this very Church, we recognize that he is will­ing to honestly acknowledge the Church's shortcomings. Such recognition facilitates the growth that the Church needs, as is evident in parishes such as St. Agatha's. The history of a Church that once owned slaves and the pain of women who yearn for the opportunity to serve the Church as priests are not easy issues to face and discuss. But Father Mike states that "there can be no renewal without reconcilia­tion. "The first step toward this reconciliation is recognizing the sins of racism and sexism. 

And we can start here at Notre Dame. Father Mike welcomes many students to share in the community of St. Agatha's and he chal­lenges us all to action. We are called to be the Church even after Church. This means con­fronting difficult issues and struggling into the deep water. Here we must each lower our nets in an effort to harvest relationships that will fulfill the demanding vision presented by Christ. 
Let's build the community and begin the conversation. 
Lynette Grypp 
Senior Howard Hall 
Sheila Provencher 
M.Div. Off-Campus 
Beau Schweitzer 
Senior Off-Campus 
Don McNeill, C.S.C. 
Director Center for Social Concerns 
Andrea Smith-Shappell 
Director Senior Transitions Center for Social Concerns 
Jennifer Grubb 
Senior Welsh Family Hall 
Nora Jones 
Sophomore Farley Hall 
Katie McDonough 
Junior Howard Hall 
Patrick Parks 
Junior Dillon Hall 
Rona Reodica 
Senior Walsh Hall 
Carin Weingarten 
Junior Cavanaugh Hall 
February 17, 2000 


page 12 Monday, February 21, 2000 
London upsta es ND 
Featuring five ofEng/ands best actors, the Actors from the London Stage theater troupe caps off its stay in Northern Indiana at Washington Hall 
. British acting troupe educates Michiana and per­forms Shakespeare on ND tour stop 
By LOUREL CRUZ 
Sct:ne ')lriter 
Although it is not as·popu­ar 01··· as frequently per­ormed as Shakespeare's other classics, "All's Well That Ends \Veil" brings its own unique All's Well That identity to the
Ends Well 
theater 

. Where: Washington s t a g e . 
Hall The play is catego­
. When: Wed. -Sat., 
rized not 

7:30 p.m. as a tragedy
. Tickets: $16; $14 
or as a 

for students and 
classic comedy,

senior citizens 
1 i k e 

many of its legendary predecessors, but as a "problem play," with prominent themes like the con­flicts between old and new, age and youth, wisdom and stupidi­ty, reason and passion. 
Therefore, it would be fitting that the King proclaims, "All yet seems well," during the course of the play. ln "All's WelL" Shakespeare collects old cus­toms, devices and characters to create a nev, 
their main focus being the lan­guage -what it means and what it demands f'rom the actors. Bv the end of their two week residency. the actors will have met the dasses of 43 teachers and profossors. actual­ly asking students to get up and perform sr.encs nnd act as a characters. 
"I would hope that they !the students] would exper.ience the joy of Shakespeare," said Barkes. "f hope that students learn that Shakespeare wrote about real people \.Vho exprnss real emotion that is relevant today as when it was written." 
In "All's Well That Ends Well." like in many of their previous performances, the Actors from the London Stage has only five actors to perform all the parts. With simple costume changes and minimal set, the actors transform from character to character without leaving the stage, giving the audience a unique perspective on the craft of acting. 
"When we begin a play. we start from scratch," said Paul McCleary, a member of the Actors from the London Stage. "No one tells us this is the wav it should be done. It is a group of actors who get together and decide which is the best way to perform the play. 
"The idea of minimal props and costumes puts the focus on the actors and the script. It is up to us how to create the whole atmosphere closer to how 
Shakespeare 

fairy tale, with ·:4ctors from the London performed it in a mark of tra­his time," said
Stage is unique in that it
dition and McCleary. revealing is a performing troupe This play is 
insights. whose created mission is one that the 
Notre Dame actors are
pedagogical. ,,
students will especially have the rare excited about opportunity to Tom Barkes because it is see five of not frequently
Washington Hall manager
Britain's best actors perform "All's Well That Ends Well" when it continues its nm on the main stage of Washington Hall Wednesday through Saturday. The talented troupe is the Actors from the London Stage, who have been invited by the Film, Television and Theatre department for a two-week resi­dency during which they will visit more than 50 classes at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Indiana University South Bend and 11 area high schools. The actors will also present three lecture/recitals and six perfor­mances of "All's Well That Ends Well." 
"Actors from the London Stage is unique in that it is a perform­ing troupe whose created mis­sion is pedagogical," said Tom Barkes of Washington Hall. "They spend more time in the classroom when they are hem than on stage performing." 
The goal of the Actors from the London Stage is to help unlock the mysteries of Shakespeare's English with 
performed. 

'"All's Well That Ends Well' is a complex love story. full of various types of redemption and love," said Eunice Roberts, a member of Actors from the London Stage. "Students should take this opportunity to see this play because it is so rarely per­formed." 
"All Well" takes place in lhth century France and Italy and begins when Bertram, Count of Rousillon, is called to the court to serve lhe King of France, who is ill of a disease all the royal physicians have failed to cure. In the entire country, the only doctor who might cure the king is now dead. On his deathbed, he gives to his only daughter, Helena, his books and papers describing the cures for all com­mon and rare diseases, among lhem the one suffered by the 
king. 
Helena is the ward to the Countess of Housillon, who thinks of her as a daughtm. She falls in love with Berlram and wants him for a husband. while Bertram considers Helena onlv as f'orl'eit if she fails, she gains slightly above a servant and the king's consent to try lrnr would not consider her for a father"s cure for him. II' she 

wife. 
The storv takes on a twist when Helena hits upon a plot to gain Bertram for a mate in such a fash­ion as to leave him no choir,;e in the matter. 
"ft is somewhat ofan advantage not to know the story line ofthis play when you come to see it ... The ending is not something you would expect ... " 
Paul McCleary actor 

wins, the young lord of her choice is to be given to her in mar­r i a g e II e I e n a cures the King, and asks for Bertrum for 
her h us-
band, who 
With her knowledge of the rcl'uscs the proposal. \Vlmt fol­king's illness, she journeys to lows is part farce-comedy and the court and by offering her life part serious insight, which por­trays the blindness brought abo~t by prnjudices formed. 
Hoberts, now in her fifth tour. plays three parts in the play, including two male, believes that this play v,.il] "bring a new insight to Shakespeare for the audience." 
McCleary, who first started working with the Actors from the London Stage in 1997. plays the King of f<ranre as one of his two parts. 
"It is somewhat of an advan­tage not to know the story line of this play when you come to see it," said McCleary. "The end­ing is not something you would expert and you don't know what will happen. It's just good fun." 


Monday, February 21, 2000 
THEATER REVIEW 

Photo courtesy of Laurie Asprey (left to right) Roger May, Polly Pritchett, Eunice Roberts, Paul McCleary and Viven Heilbron make up the cast of "All's Well That Ends Well," an ACTER tour production. 
'All's Well That Ends Well?' Depends on who you ask 
By BRIAN SEAMAN 
Scene Theater Critic 
It is almost as inevitable as the pristine South Quad snow becoming a slushy dirty mess. Yes, once again, Ar,tors from the London Stage (add English a<'.cent here) have waged a British inva­sion on the stage of Washington Hall. 
Landing on the Notre Dame campus for the second time in four years (previously with "A Midsummer Night's Dream"). 
attributed to a unique dynamic caused by the utter simplicity of the-production. Watching the actors play characters inside the taped outline and prepare as actors in full view out of it is in a way exciting. yet this lack of spectacle robs the audience in some way of seeing a fully staged work of theater. 
A program note states that this simplicity is the very goal of the troupe, not in any way rob­bing the audience of personal interpretation sometimes limited by director or designer. Yet it 
seems that this unique inter­

these a<'.ting Brits have pretation by director or
"All's Well That
opened up the same bag of designer is exactly what many tricks -a white-taped outline audience members come to the
Ends Well"
on the stage, a fe"v simple theater to see. chairs for a set. very minimal As relayed by the actors in a costuming and fivr very 
post-show question and 13 ritish accents. answer session, "All's Well 
This year, the vvhite-taped that Ends Well" is certainly not acting space contains five the best-written or most
out offive shamrocks 
actors playing out "All's Well action-packed of the Bard's 
that Ends Well," one of works. For that reason, it Slrnkespeare 's lesser known Performed by: would seem fitting to either r.omedies. Telling the story of inject this work with an ener­
Actors from the
misplaced love complicated by getic thematic choice or maybe the struggles of class and London Stage simply choose another work 
r.ourt. this play continued the staging and ar.ting precedents laid by the troupe after its last visit. 
In order to cover the needs of the script and to play the dozen or so characters involved in the play, the five actors quite deftly executed some fancy footwork and quick costume changes. One actrnss morphed from a conscientious mother to a less caring guard by merely buttoning up a flap of her frock. 
While for the well-read Shakespearean schol­ar this very theatrical and witty staging tech­nique could be exciting, thf'se lightning fast shifts of charaders were disorienting, thereby causing the plot to become murky. 
While many in attendance were Core class stu­dents who had priorly read the play, much of the audience had no such prior knowledge of the plot. Despite a short synopsis being printed in the program, the theatrical convention of char­acter-shifting and lack of physical placement through sets left much of the facts of the story cloudy. 
This was extremelv unfortunate, for this con­fusion for the audiei1ce created a rift between the actors and those in attendance. Since many in the audience wern unable to decipher the plot and to discover whom exactly the actors were playing, there was a loss of theatrical excitement in some sr.enP.s. 
Part of this stagnancy of energy could be 
for this simple format. 
Despite the shortcomings of the production as a whole. the most admirable aspect of the play was the extremely strong performances of the five actors. Despite what they personally sug­gested was not the best written of all Shakespeare works, these actors shifted charac­ters instantaneously and effortlessly. 
One of the most impressive aspects of these actors was their ability to change physical car­riage to indicate to the audience that the actor was portraying another character. One actor moved from a regal lord to a foppish clown by crinking his back and walking wilh a limp to produce an astounding comic turn. 
Despite wlrnt could be interpreted as a convo­luted plot and an odd presentational technique, the extraordinary talent of the performers is reason enough to spend three hours questioning the truth of the title. Whilfl many audience mem­bers found the staging to be confusing, others left the theater with a new appreciation for five actors and a lesser-known work of Shakespeare. 
If at the end or the show. one is able to truly decipher the intricacir.s of thP story and the characters, able to relish in the energy of the performers and able to look past that white bor­der on the stage, it will be a well-spent three honrs. It seems that Shakespeare actually knew what he was talking about. All is well that ends well. 
page 13 

AP ENTERTAINMENT BRIEFS 

Photo courtesy of Snoop-Dogg.com Rapper Snoop Dogg plans to expand his personal interests with a record label, a clothing line, an e-business and a book deal. 
Snoop Dogg becomes Renaissance man 
NEW YORK 

Rapper Snoop Dogg wants to go multimedia. 
He's launched a new record label. Dogghouse Records, and has plans for a clothing line, an Internet business and a book deal. He also wants to star in and produce films. 
"Now is the time for me to have a record label because I've been a player for a long time and have played the game very well," he told the New York Post for Sunday's editions. 
"I feel like the direction I'm going in is good for people to follow. 
• 
If I can lead the whole rap community, why can't I lead a whole record label?" 
The rapper says he plans to showcase new acts in home video movies and make their music available for download on his new Web site, www.bigsnoopdogg.com, which is under construction. 
Beach Boy Wilson plans solo comeback 
NEW YORK 

Former Beach Boy Brian Wilson intends to continue performing but has quashed any rumors that he and Paul McCartney would be working together anytime soon. 
Vv1ison, who is often called a recluse, said his anxieties keep him away from doing any more music collaborations. 
"Sometimes I think I'm better off not working with anybody else. I can't get over my silly little fears of people," he told TV Guide for its Sunday issue. "There was talk that Paul McCartney and I were going to do something, but I don't think it will hap­pen." 
Wilson said he is thinking of doing a live recording and another studio recording later this year. 
After day of training, Brooks is exhausted 
PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. The New York Mets gave Garth Brooks a real workout on the first day of training camp. 
Brooks began a 34-day stint with the team on Saturday in an effort to raise more money for his Touch 'em All Foundation, which gave $1.8 million to children's charities in 1999. 
During batting practice, the country singer had a tough time trying to match Mike Piazza, who hit a dozen long home runs in about 40 swings. 
"I was tired after two swings." Brooks said. "I was swinging for everything l had." 
In bunting practice, Brooks whiffed on the first few from the pitching machine before getting some tips from Piazza and set­tling into the drill. After that, he was so tired that he stopped to sign autographs for more than an hour instead of running wind sprints. 
Actress Ledoyen had 'great time' with Leo 
NEWYOHK 

It's hard work kissing Leonardo DiCaprio. Really. 
That's what DiCaprio's co-star Virginie Ledoyen says about their underwater smooch in the film "The Beach." 
"As you can imagine, you can't breathe. So you have to breathe before and then dive down. It's really work. It's hard to make people understand that you're kissing Leo but that it's a job," Ledoyen says in the Feb. 28 issue of People magazine. 
The 23-year-old French ar.tress says working with DiCaprio during the four-month shoot in Thailand was a "great time." "He was very sweet to my family and friends." 
NHL 

Zhamnov leads Blackhawks over Red Wings, 6-4 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

Alexf'i Zhamnov is back at full speed for the Chicago Blackhawks. · 
Zhamnov, playing his fifth game after missing eight because of a pulled hamstring, scored two goals in a 6:11 span in the third period as Chicago beat the Detroit Red Wings 6-4 Sunday. 
Zhamnov. who also had an assist, gave Chicago a 4-3 lead at 7:08, :scoring off a rebound of Tony Amonte's shot. Zhamnov made ii 5-3 with 6:41 left. bursting up the slol and beating goalie Ken Wregget on the short side. 
"Hight now, I'm feeling more comfortable," Zhamnov said. "I think we had a great effort in the third period and had a lot of jump. That's why we beat Detroit." 
Detroit's Vvacheslav Kozlov cut .it to 5-4 with 6:04 remain­ing, hut Michael Nylander added a power-play goal with 
3:06 loft as Chicago snapped a three-game losing streak. 
Amonte had a goal and two assists for Chicago, and Eric Daze and Josef Marha each had a goal and an assist. 
"A lot of games we lack an edge, but today we had an edge," Amonte said. "Everyone was in the game. Detroit brings out the best in us." 
Chicago, last in the Western Conference at 20-31-7. finished its season series against the Red Wings at 3-2-1. 
Steve Yzerman had a goal and an assist for the Red Wings, who have lost two straight. Brendan Shanahan and Martin Lapointe also scored for Detroit. which outshot Chicago 38-28. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
"We had our chances until the third," Detroit coach Scotty Bowman said. "We didn't play that badly, we just didn't put them awav when we had the chances." · 
Detroit ouishot Chicago .18-7 in the first period, but mana.gBd only a 1-1 tic. Daze opened the scoring for Chicago at 11:16 when he converted Steve Sullivan's feed. Yzerman tied it with 2:56 left in the period off a rebound. 
The Blackhawks appeared to take a 2-1 lead with 1:50 remaining in the period when Bob Probert's centering pass was deflected in by Deiroit's Mathieu Dandenault. 
The goal was disallowed after video review because the back of lhe net wasn't flat on the ice, However, replays showed Wreggct had rocked tho not with his glove. 
The Red Wings took a 2-1 lead on Shunahan's power-play goal at 2:45 of th1>. second peri­od, but Amonte tied it 1:22 later on a rebound shot that caromed in off Wregget's stick. 
Lapointe made it 3-2 at 6:22 of tho second. flipping a shot over Jocelyn Thibault's shoul­der from the slot. Marha tied it at 2:55 of the third with·a 15­foot shot off a pass from Daze. 
Stars 2, Avalanche 1 
Patience is paying off for Mike Modano and the Dallas Stars. 
Modano and Scott Thornton scored goals as Dallas beat the Colorado Avalanche, the defending Stanley Cup champi­on Stars' seventh victory in nine games. 
"It has just been a lot of patience and not really expect­ing too much going into the game, said Modano, who scored 
his 26th goal midway through Yelle's deflection from the front imagine how anyone could have the third period. of the crease. done a better job when he made He has 10 goals and nine Thornton's goal, his first since the final talk to the players assists in his last 13 games. Dec. 20, was the result of Chris about him being out and not 
"The streak has come from Drury's inability to clear the being able to come along." being very rleff>nsive oriented, purk past Hi<:hard Matvichuk. Neilson wanted to ker,p knowing where we are at on the Thornton beat everyone to the coaching through this weAk, but ice and what position we have pur.k and tur.ked it behind dor,tors advised against it. on the puck and making smart Denis, who was out of position ''I think we were well-pre­plays with it," Modano said. after slopping Brett IIull's shot. pared for this," Ramsay said. 
Modano's goal was proof of The Stars, the NIIL's top "Maybe it came a little bit soon­that patience. Hather than penalty-killing team, faced only er, but we were prepared for shooting, Sergei Zubov waited two shots in killing two penal­what was going to happen. for Colorado goalie Marc Denis ties in a scoreless serond pPri­Roger's done a magnificent job to go down to the ice before od. from Day 1 of finding out about feeding Modano for a better "We had a hard time generat­the disease, getting everybody scoring chance, ing offense, but we made their ready," 
Ed 13elfour made 23 saves for ,iob fairly easy," Colorado coach The Flyers, 13-9-7 since the Stars, allowing onl.y Alex Bob 1:-lartley said. "Our legs Neilson was diagnosed Dec. 9, Tanguay's power-play goal with were not moving and we always won two straight for the first I1 seconds remaining. seemed to be on the outsidA and time since Jan. 8-11. 
"I thought we played a very never challenged the middle," Neilson's last game behind tho strong game," Dallas coach Ken bench was a 4-2 victory Hitchcock said. "We saw what Saturday over Washington.
Flyers 3, Rangers 2 

Colorado did the last couple of "We've had discussions, and
racing the impending depar­
games offensively and knew we we really wanted to get out of
ture of Roger Neilson has
had to check pretty well if we this [slump]," said Mikael
weighed on the minds of the 
were going to win." Renberg, who scored at 4;07 of'
Philadelphia Flyers. Now that
Colorado's second-ranked the third to tic it at 2.
he is no longer with the team,
power-play unit was 1-for-4 and "It's a positive feeling within
tho Flyers are ready lO show
managed only four shots with the team now," Henberg said.
just how good they arc.

the man advantage. "Of course, we wish Roger all
.John LeClair's 30th goal mid­
Backup '.'viarc Denis made 28 the best and we think about
way through the third period
saves for the Avalanche. He him, but we know we have to
capped a two-goal rally Sunday
started in place of' Patrick fioy, look forward now."
night as the Flyers beat the New
sidelined by a groin injury. Renberg did notice some
York Rangers in the first game
"We're coming off a tough changes with Ramsay calling
without their cancer-stricken
road trip and had to face the shots.
coach.

Dallas," Colorado center Peter "Everybody had a chance to
"It was a big win for us," said
Forsberg said. "'Ve couldn't get get into the game," Henberg
coach Craig Ramsay, leading
anything going." said. "In crucial situations, at
the team in Neilson's absence.
Dallas dominated play for the the end of periods, he used our
"The guys really played hard in
first two periods, outshooting big guys but that's OK."

the third." 

the Avalanche 12-10, but man­Leclair became just the third
Neilson, 65, has multiple
aged only a 1-0 lead on Flyers player to record five
myeloma -a rare form of bone
Thornton's third goal of the sea­straight 30-goal seasons when
marrow cancer -and will be 
son midway through the first he put Philadelphia ahead 7;41
away for the remainder of the
period. into the final period. 
regular season and at least
The Stars didn't · allow Keith Jones passed to Leclair
through one round of playoffs
Colorado a shot on goal until six at the right of Rangers goalie
while undergoing treatment.

minutes into the game, with Kirk McLean and LeClair
"It's really been incredible,"
Belfour easily turning Stephane knocked it in. 
Ramsay said. "I can't even 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 Soucl1 Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Young family seeks fluent German­ 3-4 bdrm new home, f/p, cathedral  Student Activities is now hiring  
LOST & FOUND  WANTED  speaking mother's helper 2-3 times/wk. 5 minutes from ND. Must  ceilings, 3 baths, 2-car garage, family room.  sound technicians. For more information or to pick up an applica­ a few things my second-favorite bar needs to change: flaming bever­ 
have transportation. 271-8355  $1400/mo.  lion, stop by 315 LaFortune.  ages are a must. don't deny me my  
If anyone has picked up an old  Childcare needed.  616-683-5038  favorite song (Back that thing up)  
gray knit glove I would actually  1 or 2 students for 20 hrs per week  219-340-1844  and you need sturdier darts!  
pay to get ii back, that is how  between 9 and 5 to watch 2 yr old &  219-232-4527  I'll be d*"ned this ain't my car  Enough said!  
important it is to me.  newborn for ND prof in our  SUBLEASE YOUR HOME this  
Also, if  home.Experience and transporta­ summer to visiting faculty of ND.  
anyone has found or has seen  tion required.Some flexibility in  Needed in June and July. Professor  
a skateboard with a blank wood colored bottom and  scheduling possible. Please call Rose at 289-3865  with 3 children and a dog. Must be close to Notre Dame. Please call  FOR SALE  The really meant a lot to me. You mean a lot to me.  Here you go amanda, your first classified  
white wheels, I offer a reward  631-3165.  
for that as well.  ATTENTION: THE PHONE NUM- New Phone Card  
Forany  BER IN THIS AD HAS BEEN COR­ 886 mins. $20  Colleen,  
information call Gavin at 4­ RECTED.  258-4805 or 243-9361  Gir1 you know it's true  nobody thinks bad of you  
1267  PLEASE CALL AGAIN IF YOU  SUMMER CHILD CARE NEEDED  
TRIED BEFORE ANO GOT A  for visiting faculty of ND. Schedule  
WRONG NUMBER.  will include day class time, some  Beautiful brass bed, queen size,  To my 'Backer-'Backer girls:  hey amanda,  
evening and weekend hours. Will  with orthopedic mattress set and  (to the tune of the Cheers song)  don't work too hard at Baker's  
My claddagh ring lost in o'shag two  need references. Call for an  deluxe frame. New, never used, still  square.  
weeks ago.  appointment 631-3165.  in plastic. $235 219-862-2082  Sometimes you wanna go where  
Wanted 50 serious people to lose  nobody will remember your name  
Silver w/ green heart.  weight, safely & effectively.  Quality ranch,  
Please call shannon  Natural/guaranteed www.lose-now.com  FOR RENT  2107 Rockne Dr., 1639 sq. rt., 3 bdrm, basement.  and every guy looks the same  And what's up with VP? How will you be scene amanda if  
284-44 19 or 631-454 1 if found.  or  loads of storage,  you wanna dance in a puddle of  you work VP7  
1-800-883-1569  2-car garage. $113k.  slime  
ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE  288-8854.  
AND CLOSE  to New York, New York and to  
- A c!addagh ring was found in o'shag. Go to Am. Studies office to retneve.  FLINT COMPLETE PERSONNEL SERVICES  http;//mmmrsntals.homepage.com/ emaiJ:mmmrentals@aol.com 232-2595  PERSONALS  Sweet Caroline The Backers the place where  still here ....  
102 N. MAIN ST.  oobody remembers your name  
SOUTH BEND  www.thecommentator.com  Chas... he like his guitar  
I love you guys  
Lost silver, panoramic Minolta  FLINT IS RECRUITING FOR THE  6 BEDRM. '00-'01  OUTDOOR ADVENTURE INTER- 
camera on 2/5/00,  FOLLOWING PERMANENT POSI·  $1200/mo. 273-0482  SHIP! with Idaho Whitewater  
Possibly left in Michiana taxi.  TION  Railing Company owned by ND  hi Chas' mom  
Any info call Mary Ellen 284-5451  Grads. Learn about operating a  Autumn is now known as cat·  
INSIDE SALES REPRESENTA- small business. entrepreneurship.  woman  
TIVE  Available '00-01.  marketing, and business strategy.  
Growing and Expanding Staffing  4-6 Student Rental House ... 2 1/2  Plenty of time to float the rivers toot  Frasso?  
Help!  Looking For Highly Motivated,  baths: lots of space; Parking Lot  Informational meeting on Mon. 2121  
Silver and blue Guess watch lost  Energetic Person. Must Have C/S  and Laundry ... Dave 291-2209  @ 12:30 & 3 PM in  AB -honestly he knows your name  
somewhere between Debartolo  Skills and Sales Exp.  204 St. Ed's.  
(rooms 155 or 205) and the SDH on  Email Andy at  Tony is the cool one but we love  
Friday, February 18.  Interested Candidates Please  anachman@yahoo.com  Pete just the same  
Contact Kim  B'NB REGISTRY  or call @ 208-634-1606 with ques- Rie • we like to party, we like, we  
If found please call Julie at 2374  (219) 233-2150  219-291-7153  lions.  like to party  
Yeah baby!  

lvfonday, February 21, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 
No. 24 Jayhawks shut down Najera, defeat No. 20 Sooners 
"I was not very aggressive failed to take advantage of the Vincent Yarbrough led the free throws. 
Associated Press 
today, especially down the many opportunities Kansas Vols with 25 points. Ron Slay Miami 63, No. 18 Connecticut stretch," said Najera, the Big handed out and got outrebonded had 13 and Terrence Woods 57
LAWRENCE. Kan. 

12's second-leading scorer with 50-36. added 10, all in the first half. Elton Tyler scored 22 points,
Those 10 points by 
19 points per game. Tennessee came into the game including the go-ahead basket
Oklahoma's Eduardo Najera 
He was only 3-for-12 from the as the league's best road team at late in the1 second half, as Miami
against Nebraska last Monday Vanderbilt 85,
floor. But his turnover after 7-1. rallied from 13 points down tonight no longer are his lowest Bosdrne's missed field goal was No. 6 Tennessee 72 The Vols had won three beat No. 18 Connecticut. 
output ol' the season. 
the killer. , Anthonv Williams had 22 straight and seven of their last For the second year in a row,The eight he managed against "That was a huge possession points and 12 rebounds to lead eight, but had no answer for the defending national champsKansas on Sunday are. 
for us," Najera said. "That was Vanderbilt over Tennessee, Williams. The 6-foot-7 junior, were unable to cash in on theirHolding the 6-foot-8 N:~jera to the game right there, that play, Saturday, g1vmg the primarily an inside player, got home court against thehis worst game of the season, that turnover." Commodores a sweep of the sea­off to an auspicious start when Hurricanes. Miami (16-9, 9-3 Bigthe Jayhawks (No. 21 ESPN/USA llas Oklahoma's star player. son series for the first time in six he banked in an 18-footer on his East) boat the Huskies (18-7, 7 ­Today, No. 24 API survived terri­who has totaled only 18 points years. first shot. 5) by a bucket in their previousble free-throw shooting and held 
The Commodores (17-6, 7-5

the past two games, slipped into The game was tied 29•all late meeting at Gampel Pavilion. 
on for a 53-50 victory over the a shooting slump? Southeastern Conference) shot in the first half before Vanderbilt The 'Canes erased a 28-23Sooners (No. 19 ESPN/USA "I didn't know he was in a well (53 percent) and took excel­closed the half with a 12-4 spurt halftime deficit in a hurry.
Today, No. 20 AP) and their shooting slump," Oklahoma lent care of the ball, committing to lead 41-33 at the break. Johnny Hemsley and Tyler com­slumping star. 
coach Kelvin Sampson said. only seven turnovers. As a Tennessee cut it to five points bined for five points with less"We knew we had to contain Could he be tired? result, lhey did not need another on a three-point play by than a minute gone. Mario Bland Najera," Kansas forward Kenny "He's not tired," Sampson monster night from SEC scoring Yarbrough with just under 13 scored his first six points of the Gregory said. "We just kept try­said. "He just didn't play very leader Dan Langhi, who had 31 minutes to go. game over the next five minutesing to [help out] and keep dou­well." in the first meeting at Knoxville in a 17-9 Miami run for a 40-37bling down on him. We knew we 
but settled for 17 Saturday,

Oklahoma's Nolan Johnson Ilurricano lead. 
had to contain him on the No. 7 Ohio State 82,
said the constant attention he including a monster slam at the The teams traded baskets overinside." 
draws every game could be buzzer that sent the Vandy stu­Indiana 71 the next five minutes and UConnKirk Hinrich's free throw was draining his strength. however. dents screaming onto the floor to Michael Redd and Ohio State worked its way back into thethe only point Kansas (19-7, 8-4 celebrate. muscled their way past Indiana. lead at 46-45 on Jake Voskuhl's"He didn't have one of his bet­Big 12) scored in the final 4:19 ter games, but he gets a lot of James Strong added 15 points Redd scored a season-high 28 dunk. After Hemsley's freeand the Javhawks missed four double and triple teams," for ihe Commodores. points, including five free throws throw evened the score at 9:04,slraight fo~I shots in the final Johnson said. "And that proba­Tennessee (21-4. 9-3) shot just in the final two minutes, as the Tyler took a backdoor feed forminutes. 
bly wears on him." 39 percent from the floor in No. 7 Buckeyes held olf the No. an easy bucket to put Miami upBut after Oklahoma (20-5, 8-4) "He just didn't play very well," falling back into a four-way tie 10 Hoosiers in their foul-plagued for good 48-46 with 7 :40 left.
rebounded Jeff Boschee's second Sampson said. with Kentucky, Florida and Big Ten showdown. The Huskies got within a point.
miss with 29 seconds to go and Drew Gooden's jumper put the Auburn for the SEC lead. The Redd added 10 rebounds. 53-52 on a pair of free throws bystarted down court, Najera lost Jayhawks on top 52-48, and 40 Vols launched 29 3-point George Reese also had a double­Khalid El-Amin with 5:06 left. 
the ball out of bounds. A few attempts and hit seven (24 per­double for Ohio State with 11
seconds later Johnson's short It was all UConn in the open­seconds later, Hinrich hit one jumper made it 52-50. cent). They also got a terrible points and 10 rebounds. ing minutes. The Huskies struckfoul shot. making it 53-50. 
The teams spent the rest of the performance from leading scor­The 6-foot-6 Redd said he felt quickly with a 14-2 run in the
Oklahoma's Kelly Newton 
game trading turnovers and er Tony Harris (15.3 ppg), who confident no matter who Indiana first four minutes by dominating
missed two 3-pointers in the 
was 1-of-14 from the field and used to defend him ..

missing shots until Hinrich hit the offensive boards. Edmundfinal seconds as Kansas avoided finished with three points to go "That's the confidence I have," 
his foul shot with 14 seconds to Saunders, Kevin Freeman andwhat would have been its first go. But Oklahoma -shooting with one assist and three said Redd, who was 8-for-16 El-Amin scored UConn's first six two-game home losing streak in only 33 percent for the game -turnovers. from the field and hit 11-of-15 points off offensive rebounds. 
12 years. 

.... 

Visir tHe All New VeRsitv.com 
Lecture nores . tutoRials . researcH cenrer 
(we'Re eveN givinG awav Asrearh-taKing triP to EuRopE) 
-a/wars , . ·!4tt365) oPen ­
Where to go when you need to know. 
Woinen 
continued from page 24 
with 17.3 seconds left. bring­ing the Irish to within three points of the Knights. 65-62. The second rame off an Irish rebound 
when the Knights' T a s h a Pointer 
missed  a  
foul shot.  
"For  a  

fre.shman to come in 

and make Ratay 
two clutch threes -that's something you don't see everyday," said Ruth Riley..'.'She really stepped up 
for us. 
As the clock ran down to 3.6 seconds. the Knights triple­teamed Ratay, but the fresh­man found an openlng and hit nothing but net to tie the game 65-65. 
Ratay went 7 -for-7 from behind the arc during tho con­test, setting a Big East shoot­ing record. 
"As soon Alicia made the shot and sent us to ovei·time, 
we knew we were going to 
win," Siemon said. "There 
was no way we were going to 
come from behind like that 
and then lose to Rutgers." 
The Knights weren't about 
to concede defeat, however, 
as they forced the Irish to 
again battle back from behind 
in overtime for the win. 
Riley, who along with Ratay, 
on a three-point play to give 
the Irish a quick 68-65 lead, 
but the Knights answered 
with six consecutive points for 
the 71-68 edge. 
The Irish countered with a 
6-0 run of ·their own that 
tipped the scale back in Notre 
Dame's favor. 74-71, ·with just 
more than a minute to play. 
When Pointer nailed a 3­pointer to tie the game with ·46 seconds left 1.o play. Hatay stepped up for the Irish again. 
The Irish took possession of 
the ba-ll and found Rilev in the 
paint, but the _iunior ·missed 
the basket. Ratay grabbed the 
weak-side rebound and went 
up hard. drawing the foul. 
As poised at the line as she 
was from 3-point land. Ratay 
nailed her two free-throws, 
sealing the Irish 76-74 win. 
The Irish win came after a 
rocky first half of play. The Irish hit six 3-pointers and led with a 29-10 run in the open­ing minutes of the first half. forcing the Knights into13 straight missed shots. 
"We executed really well at the beginning of the game and hit our shots," Siemon said. "Defensively, we shut down their offense and stopped their penetration." 
The Knights slowly whittled down the Irish lead, however, ending the half with a 12-3 run of their own bringing them within 10. A 15-3 run, sparked by the Knights' Shawnetta Stewart's three 3­pointcrs in four possessions, gave Rutgers the lead midway through the second hair. 
"Ruth got two fouls and had to sit out. They starled to score and we were having trouble getting the ball inside," said Siemon, explain­ing Notre Dame's failure to keep the lead. "They took advantage of the inside and played well off the fast break." 
The win boosts Notre Dame's record to 23-2 overall and 14-0 in the Hig East. while Rutgers fell to 17-6 on the season. 

WOMEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 
Rutgers extends Stringer's contract 
Associated Press 

C. Vivian Stringer, who has transformed Hutgers (No. 11 ESPN/USA Today; No. 8 AP) into a national puwer, was given a three-year contract extension Friday, making her one of the high­est-paid coaches in women's college basketball. 
The contract revises the linal three years of her exist­ing seven-year contract signed in 1995 and adds three years, keeping her under contract until 2005, athletic dirnctor Robert Mulcahy said at a. news con-

fcrence in Piscataway. N.J. 
Stringer will earn a base salary of $175,000, while the total package is worth $400,000 annually when money from a basketball camp, public relations and promotions and cost-of-living expenses are added in. There also are bonuses for accom­plishments, such as winning a Big East Conference title or NCAA championship. Mulcahy said. 
"I consider Vivian to be the top coach in the country." Mulcahy said. "lier record has demonstrated that, and I felt she should be paid on a par with the top coaches in the country." 
Hutgers (17-7. 9-5 Big East} is on the verge of posting its third straight 20-win season and earning its third consec­utive NCAA Tournament berth. 

Please, come back me. ­

• 


Visi-t Jesus 1n ­Eucharis-tic Adora-tion_ 
Monday 11 :30 p.m. to Tuesday 1 O:OOpm in Fisher Hall 
Friday 12:00pm-5:00pm, Lady Chapel, Basilica 
Eucharistic Adoration is sponsored by campus Ministry. !'-<?.ckenl"l.aus. l.@nd.edu for more information or to sign up for a,. perntan.ent hal.f-hour or hour... sl.ot. 
Want to write for The Observer? Call 1-4543 
... .. . --.. . . ... . ,. ............ .. -... -j 
down the floor, Murphy missed a jump shot under
Upset 
intense guarding. Kaukenas, 
continued from page 24 Seton Ball's leading scorer. 
tied the game on a layup with half. 37.5 seconds remaining. 
"Coach ran some plays that With the shot clock nearly we knew would work against the same as the game clock, the Seton Hall defense, and the Irish kept the ball at the the guys were getting me some top of the key until the final looks," said Murphy. a New seconds. As time wound down, Jersey native. "I was home. freshman guard Matt Carroll It's nice because you look up tried for a trey. The shot was in the stands and see a bunch short, bouncing off the rim. of people who you know." Graves grabbed the rebound 
"Troy just had an unbeliev­and hit the final jump shot able game. so we kind of rode with .3 seconds remaining as his shoulders the entire Notre Dame took a 76-74 game," Graves said. advantage. Pirates' coach 
Seton Hall Tommy kept the game "We've beaten two top-25 Amaker interesting as it didn't think
teams in a row, and that
held Murphy Graves' shot 
scoreless for should help us with should 
the final 4:49. getting into the tourna­count. argu­The Pirates ing that the
ment. I think ifwe can
staged a late shot clock 
get a couple more wins,
comeback, with had expired guards we should be in pretty and that Shaheen Carroll's shot
good shape. " 
Holloway and never hit the R i m a s rim. As offi­Kaukenas lead­Troy Murphy cials checked ing a 10-0 run Irish forward the replay, it on their 3-point was clear shots. Ty Shine Carroll's stole the ball m i s s and drove for a fast-break lay­bounced off the rim, so up. giving the Pirates a 7 2-71 Graves· bucket was good. lead with 1 :54 remaining. "The last play, it just 
"I felt that we were griing to bounced my way and I threw it win the game," said freshman up there, and luckily, the shot Ivan Kartelo. who scored eight went it." Graves said. points on 4-for-5 shooting, Seton Hall threw a baseball draggE>d down eight rebounds pass in an attempt to get a and added two· blocks. "We final shot off, but Murphy were confident. We were play­knocked the pass away, giving ing together." the Irish reason to celebrate. 
It was Graves. not Murphy, "When you play together and who secured the victorv for play ha.rd, you can do any­the Irish. He swished ·a 3-thing," Kartclo said. "You can pointer to put the Irish back in beat anvbodv." the lead 74-74 with 1:36 to go. With the victory, Notre Dame 
Seton Hall's Samuel rose to fifth place in the Big DalembPrt. who had 18 points East standings. Hoth Notre in the game, missed two free Dame and Connect.icut hold a throws with 1:22 to go. 7-5 league record, but the 
On Notre Dame's next time Irish are ahead of the Huskies 
Monday, February 2 l , 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
thanks to two wins in their 

•
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL
meetings. 
"We're playing with a lot of confidence," Murphy said. "We've beaten two top-25 

Suspended Przybillateams in a row, and that should help us with getting into the tournament. I think if 
leaves Minnesota 
we can get a couple more wins, we should be in pretty good shape." 
The victory also strength­ened Irish hopes of NCAA tournament play. 
"We have ·tough games to play, and we just have to go out there one game at a time and play hard," Graves said. "The best thing about this team is that we're peaking at the right time. I really think we have our best basketball ahead of us." 
After a strong start, the Irish fell behind by seven at the break. Seton Hall outrebound­cd Notre Dame 19-14 in the first half, also getting extra attempts at the free throw line. 
But the Irish turned things around in the second half, going on a 19-2 streak to put the Pirates away. Graves knocked down one of his three 3-pointers and Murphy added nine during the run. By the time Seton Hall scored again, Notre Dame had taken a 62-51 lead. 
Notre Dame staved off a Seton Hall comeback with the confidence from beating defending national champion Connecticut a week before at home. 
Game notes 
. The Irish shot 49.2 per­cent in the game, compared to 
39.1 percent for the Pirates. 
. 
Senior point guard Jimmy Dillon dished off nine assists in tho game. 

. 
Dalembert was a formida­ble defender for the Pirates, batting down six Irish shots with blocks. 


and that seemed to be the problem all season." 
He said he didn't want to be critical of Monson but that they "seldom talked." 
Monson confirmed Przybilla was not in danger of becoming ineligible under NCAA rules, but said his leading scorer had plenty of warning. 

INTERESTED IN STUDENT 


"Obviously, I'm not going to get into a debate in the media about it. On this, we had more
GOVERNMENT? 
communication than with any other player." Monson told the newspaper. 
The Gophers lost their past two games without Przybilla, who averaged 14.2 points and

Become ~I•e II.e.x:~ ..£._ssi_s~ft;II.~ 
8.4 rebounds per game. They

~'t:..de.:.'t: :Dody T:re~s-..:re:r 
LC{e5tepJr
-Great resume builder 
"It's not just about eating. It's about what triggers your 
-Meet new people 
eating and what choices yo4 can make when confronted with those situations. t so examined the role and importance of physic +The hands-on.actfvities, 
-Work with the "Shirt Project" 
-Learn about the Student Business 
the sensible info he notebookand the 
~fr' 

availability of a di combiJl. J~;program that works. The messa the progr S.. 's that the "little" changes ~ill ma·" . ,1ffer~~~e and they did for me. I 

. on:µn nd ~~ifeSteps program:' 
Board 

.cist Progi'!irjitl?a,rticipant 
, days, Fetrri;,grv 22 -May 2 2 consultationtWith a dietitian 
•l~:1~I~12:50, RSRC 120 ($25 ~efund based on attendance) 
•Contact Jennie @ 1-5965 or Jessica @ 1-5829
Applications for the Assistant Student Body Treasurer position 
for more infonnation.
are available outside the Treasurer's Office in 314 LaFortune. 
Z?--~ 

were beaten by Purdue 97-61 Saturday in West Lafayette, Ind. 
Przybilla averaged 17.2 points per game in Big Ten play and led the conference in field-goal percentage (.614) and rebounds per game (11.2). 
"My real feelings right now ... are for the 10 guys that have to go to West Lafayette and endure something like yester­day. That's where I feel the most disappointed," Monson told WCCO Radio on Sunday. 
Monson replaced Clem Haskins, who recruited Przybilla and coached him last season but left the university after widespread academic fraud was found in the men's basketball program. 
"I'm sure that if Clem Haskins was still coaching the team, I would still be playing basketball for Minnesota," Przybilla said. "Clem and I had a great relationship. I promised Clem when he recruited me that I would spend four years at Minnesota, and that was my plan. However, it was Clem who suggested that if l had a great junior season it might be smart to maybe turn pro." 
Przybilla said he never gave any thought to transferring when Haskins left. 
"At that time I had no idea but to play four years at Minnesota and then turn pro," he said. 
But Przybilla is convinced he is ready to play in the NBA now. 
"My dad has visited on the phone with several agents in tho last 24 or 48 hours since we made our final decision, and the agents tell my father that I will definitely be a lottery pick," he said. 
Monson told WCCO he wished Przybilla well in the draft, but said agents arc part of the problem with college sports today. 
"Obviously the agents are going to tell these athletes what they want to hear, and that's something that's unfor­tunate," Monson said. 
Przybilla said the negative reaction to his leaving school had been far stronger that what he expected. 
"People are pretty upset with me, but I had to do what I had to do," he said. "I've been hid­ing out at my girlfriend's house and different places because of the reaction." 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS 
Joel Przybilla says he's through with college basketball and is ready for the NBA. 
The 7-foot-1 sophomore cen­ter was suspended l a s t Tuesday b y Minnesota men's bas­ketball coach Dan Monson for skip­ping class­es. 
Speaking publicly Saturday for the first time since hL'> sus­pension, Przybilla blamed his suspension on a lack of com­munication and said he would not return to the team. 
Przybilla told the Star Tribune his father, Doug, is hiring an agent and that they will take whatever steps the agent recommends in an effort to make him a lottery pick in the NBA draft June 6 in Minneapolis. 
"I made a mistake by not attending classes on a regular basis," the 20-ycar-old Monticello, Minn., native said, but he added he wasn't wor­ried about his grades. "My GPA was over 2.0, so there was no danger of being ineligible to play." 
He said he was surprised Monson suspended him. 
"True, coach Monson had warned me about going to class, but I thought he made a bigger thing out of it than it really was," he said. "I think we had a lack of communica­tion. coach Monson and myself. 




WOMEN'S BIG EAST SWIMMING AND DIVING CHAMPIONSHIPS 
Parents experience struggle, triumph with daughters 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Saint Mary's Editor 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. 
When the members of the 2000 senior class walked out of the pool Saturday night, they said goodbye to four years of Big East virtories. friendship in and oul of the pool. and began Lo face a life without swimming. 
In the stands, parents stood with tears of pride, also bid­ding goodbye to the sport they had spent the last two decades of their life supporting. For them. too, it would mean fac­ing a life without swimming. 
While the swimmers will remember years of training, hard-earned victories and sor­rowful defeats, the parents' memories will differ. They will remember years of waking up al the crack of dawn to drive their daug-hters to early-morn­ing practices, stocking cabi­nets with spaghetti for pre­meet nutrition, and cheering wildly from the stands, watch­ing nervously for the finish. 
Thev will rnrrlf'mher their daughters' acceptances to Notre Dame, and they will remember watching their daughters step onto the podi­um as the Big East champions for four years running. 
With that many memories, it can be hard to imagine any­thing else -exactly the rea­son that many of the 2000 womens' swimming and diving senior parents are having a hard time letting go as well. 
"[When I was watching tonight] I was sad thinking that I wouldn't get to be here next year," said Shari Suddarth, mother of Shannon Suddarth. "This is her last swim at the Big East.... I'm used to always having a com­petitor in the family, and now there won't be one." 
For those families who watched their last meet this weekend, making adjustments to years of scheduling and annual meets will be a difficult adjustment. 
"This thing has been an annual ritual this time of year for us," said Rick Barger, father of co-captain Elizabeth Barger. "It's going to be hard to stop that lifetime rhythm." 
Having watched his daugh­ter compete in meets from the age of 6, swim meets have dic­tated the calendar for several years in the Barger family. 

Not that he minds the change. He did admit a cruise with his wife would be a wel­come change instead of the annual journey to the Big East Championship. But he will miss cheering on his daughter. 
''J'm her biggest cheer.­leader." he said. "l get so pumped when she swims. I swam in college, too, but I get far more nervous for her swims than I ever did for my own." 
Sitting in the stands this weekend, many parents were biting their nails as their daughters pulled out the close races. Often coming down to the split seconds of a finish. leaning over the rails and screaming wildly isn't unusual behavior for a swimming par­ent. 
Hut for Marie and Ken Ketlehohn, their fear while watching daughter Gina Ketlehohn compete is more deeply-founded. Having watched her compete in diving for nine years, Mario watches wilh pride and nervous antici­pation. 
"It's very nerve wracki~g." Marie said. "We're ahvays very nervous, just praying she won't get hurt. With diving it's different -we're hoping she won't get hurt above any­thing." 
While the swimmers will also leave friends from the pool, the parents also get ready to say goodbye to the friends they've formed over the years. After four years of donning blue and gold from the stands, the Notre Dame swimming parent contingent is a tight group. 
"We're really going to miss the camaraderie of the parents here," said Bettie Newell, mother of Alison Newell. "We've become a very close­knit group through all of this." 
But they won't say goodbye completely. 
"We cook dinner at the girls' house together. We go to foot­ball games together," Bettie said. "In the fall, that won't end." 
But as they stood together for the last time as a group, decked in Notre Dame t-shirts, green plastic hats and video cameras slung over one shoul-


STUDENT ACTIVITIES 
I 

Information Desk & Box Office 
.. 
Bookkeeping/Accounting 
Student Assistant Needed
C aJ 

E Responsibilities include )I\ preparation of daily deposits and 0-reconciliations.-~ 
a..., 

Position open to current
E 'c 

Sophomores & Juniors.
QI :I

.., Business Majors preferred,
.... but not required.
C 0 

Must be detail oriented, have an upbeat
aJ a. 

attitude and be flexible in scheduling.
"CS a.
:s

.. 0 Applications available outside the
Cl) 

StudentActivities Office, 
~ 315 Lafortune. 
4) Application deadline Friday, Feb. 25.

z (Position will start training in March) www.nd.edu/~sao/ 

der, there was only one thought on their minds -their daughters. 
And that won't change. 

"We are very, very proud," said Sue Shepard, mother of Laura Shepard. "We've shared all of the joys, the successes. 
and the disappointments with her. We've juggled so many things to support her.... This is a grand finish." 


COMING SOON: A NEW ATM, LOOK FOR IT IN THE NORTH DINING HALL! 

Campus Locations: 
I!=.==-::::::::;; 

Full Service: 
Reckers Douglas Road Office 
Cash Dispenser Only: 
Hammes Bookstore Grace Hall 
Coming Soon: 
North Dining Hall 

Please recycle The Observer. 
Monday, February 21, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
W. Swiill 
continued from page 24 
for a long time." 
Junior Carrie Nixon contin­ued her championship perfor­mance, registering three indi­vidual wins, four relay wins. five Big East and Notre Dame records. three NCM automat­ic qualifying times, and 2000 Big East Swimmer of the Year honors. 
"This was an honor that I never imagined," Nixon said, who now has a list of 12 Big East titles. "I didn't really expect this. It hasn't really hit me yet." 
Nixon opened her meet reg­istering a win in the 50 -yard freestyle Thursday, and con­tinw1d her championship cam­paign with a win in the 100­yard butterfly Friday. Noted as a sprinter, Nixon wrapped the weekend with a win in the 100 -yard freestyle, winning her heat by two ser,onds in 49.17, beating her preliminary time by .6 seconds. 
Weathers also credited strong finishes from the senior class, who will graduate as the highest-scoring class in Notre Dame swimming history. "The key ingredient was the 

---------------------------------------, senior class," said Weathers, 

The Department of Romance 
L anguages and Literatures Lecture Series continues with 
The Art of the 


Mask: Introduction to the Masque Characters in the Co,nmedia dell'Arte 

a lecture/performance by 
Mace Perlman 
classically-trained actor and mime 

a p.m. Monday, February 21st Hesburgh Library Auditorium Admission is free. 
Co-sponsored by the Devers Program in Dante Studies and the Italian Club 
who formed the group as his first recruiting class. "Theywanted to win the first year. and they've been set on win­ning ever since.'' "Because we've won before. we know how good it feels," said co-captain Elizabeth Rarger. "The seniors on the team are really focused and can teach the group that it comes from a whole team effort." Senior Shannon Suddarth racked up two breaststroke wins for the Irish, defending her conference titles in the 100 and 200 breaststroke. Senior Alison Newell claimed the 200-yard butterfly in 2 minutes, .71 seconds, followed by teammate Elizabeth Barger in second. Barger also finished second in the 100 butterfly, touching in 55.64. Laura Shepard placed fourth in the 50 freestyle, as well as racking 

up two Big East titles in relay 
events. 
Other standouts included 
sophomore Kelly Hecking, who 
posted double wins in the 100­
an d 200-yard backstroke 
events Junior Kristen Van 
Saun exhibited dominance in 
the distance events, ranking 
third in the 1 .650-yard 
freestyle and a first place fin­
ish in the 500-yard freestyle. 
But while the inevitable 
four-peat loomed in the dis­
tance throughout the meet, 
tho team's focus remained on 
qualifying for NCAA 
Championships March 16-18 
in Indianapolis, Ind. Stressing 
individual performance over 
placing. Weathers continually 
asserted that qualifying for 
NCAAs was key. 
"These girls trained hard and swam fast, and that in itself is motivating," said Weathers. "This is also a very competitive group within itself, and when you're in a competitive group, you want to strive to be effective in that group." 
Nixon is currently the only swimmer qualified with auto­matic times for the champi­onship, which is the highest level of competition in colle­giate swimming. Several other swimmers and four relays posted consideration times, however. 
The team brought eight ath­letes to the meet in 1999. 
"Having a lot of athletes last year will help us in terms of experience this year." Barger said. 
The team will compete at home for the last time this season at the Shamrock Classic, where Weathers hopes the team will post more qualifying times. Weathers has forseen the team moving to the national level since the onset of the season, focusing on NCAAs during the dual meet season and especially now after Big East Championships are over. 
But for now, they'll just cele­brate. 
"This is definitelv over­whelming," Barger said. "It's hard to sit down at all when you're just thinking about cel­ebrating." 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 
vs. 

Providence 7:30pm 
This Wednesday 
L • ._ 
VARSITY SHOP 
...­


MEN'S SWIMMING AND DIVING BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIPS 
Irish capture consecutive second-place finishes 

By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
Spores Writer 
Trailing Rutgers and in third place after the first day of the Big East conference championships, the Notre Dame men's swimming team stepped up its effort to move into second place on Friday and held onto second Saturday. 
After finishing second last year at the championship, the Irish made the necessary adjustments 
to repeat. 
"This is what we hoped for," men's swimming coach Tim Welsh said. "We started the year hoping we could defend our sec­ond place finish and we are excited that we could do that." 
The team's second place finish was the culmination of a meet that saw four Irish swimmers earn NCM championship con­sideration times. Focusing on racing faster and getting many Irish swimmers in the finals, the Irish moved into second place Friday. 
Senior Ray Fitzpatrick won the 200-yard freestyle event with a time of 1 minute, 38.36 seconds. shaving close to two seconds from his preliminary time and breaking his own University record of 1:38.83. Ilis time also qualified him for the NCAA swimming championships. The win marked Fitzpatrick's first Big East individual title. 
Fitzpatrick also played a part 
in two other relays. The 200­
yard individual medley team of 
Brian Skorney, Michael Koss. 
Brendan Lechner and Fitzpatrick 
placed second. Fitzpatrick was 
also part of the 800-yard 
freestyle team of Jonathan 
Pierce, Austin Anderson and 
Matthew Gruenewald, who 
placed third. 
Other key finishes came from 
junior Ryan Verlin, who placed 
fourth in the 400-yard individual 
medley, Michael Koss and Dan 
Szilier, who tied for fifth place in 
the 100-yard breaststroke and 
Brian Skorney, who finished fifth 
in the 100-yard backstroke and 
broke his own University record 
with a time of 50.54. 
The team came into Saturday's 
competition knowing it was lead­
ing Rutgers by 42 points, and 
feeling that every race was cru­
cial. 
"The meet was not over by any 
means Saturday," Welsh said. 
"We came in knowing that places 
two, three and four could change 
this morning. Those thoughts 
were with us all day lung and we 
raced well. The team from begin­
ning to end raced beautifully 
well." 
Divers Herbie Huesman and 
Andy Maggio placed fourth and 
fifth respectively in Friday's 
three-meter diving competition 
after both finishing in the top 
eight in Thursday's one-meter 
diving. 
"I thought that our divers did well today," Welsh said. "I thought Herbie and Andy did better than in the one-meter competition on Friday as well." 

Key individual performances from Jonathan Pierce, Verlin and Szilier propelled the Irish Saturday. 
Pierce, a sophomore, won his second Big East individual 1,650­yard freestyle title, breaking his own University record. 
Pierce's victory in the event last year marked the first tinrn a Notre Dame men's swimmer won an individual title in the Big East competition. 
Pierce said he knew what he had to do to win the race. 
"I knew I had to go out hard and try to hold on," Pierce said. "Throughout the race I knew I was catching people and I knew we needed the points and I just had to get out there and go for it." 
Welsh was pleased with the sophomore's performance. 
"Jonathan defending his title al a faster time was key," Welsh said. "Not only did he set a University record but it was also an Olympic trial cut time. It's hard to ask for more." 
Verlin placed second in the 
200-yard butterl1y event, with a 
finish of 1:48.39, earning him his 
first NCAA consideration. 
"I had a good race in the 
morning and felt there was a lot 
more I could du in that race," 
Verlin said. "I had high expecla­
tions for the finals. I improved 
my time and I was very pleased 
with that." 
In the 200-yard breaststroke, 
the Irish dominated with Szilier 
finishing second followed by 
Jason Fitzpatrick in seventh 
place and Koss in 10th place. 
Szilier's time also saw him 
qualify for the NCAA champi­
onships. 
Welsh saw the victory as a pay­
off for months of hard work. 
'This team works very hard," 
Welsh said. "In swimming, there 
is no substitute for training hard. 
This team has trained hard and 
prepared well. 
"The guys have done the work 
and it's not an accident that they 
raced well on race day. I'm really 
pleased for the team. Wt)'re look­
ing forward to the Shamrock 
Classic meet and starting to think 
about next year." 
LEADERS 

Full-time college student or graduate. Starting salary, $32,000. Post offer mental and physical screening. 
Marine Officer Programs Call toll free for an interview 1-877-299-9397 www.MarineOfficer.com 



;i~-~:~.:...:~-:~..; . 
,_/i>-''' 
.,. 

•• • ~ ·c• 
--->• . -, ':~~-;. ·:­
-<•!j• 

,,1--~.,..:·.• 
:,:~~~:J~:-;Ji( 
. . ~ . . . .. 
·(.~~;··,·:...:,.!;:.~.~ :.:;. =,: 


For Delivery, call 1-4 7 7 7 Delivery times 6pm lam everday. 
Tomassito•s 

Offer va1id on any Tuesday of Spring Semester 2000. Prices va.lid from 10:30am Tuesday morning until 1:00am Wednesday morning. 
Monday, February 21, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
MEN'S BIG EAST SWIMMING AND DIVING CHAMPIONSHIPS ... 
Seniors lead Irish from seventh to second in four years 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY Byline Title 
UNIONDALE. N.Y. 

The seniors un the Notre Dame men's swimming team have sefln the program make vast improvements since they were freshmen. 
This weekend's second place overall finish for tlrn team at. the Big East con­ference championships was especially meaningful for the seniors who have been at the heart of the toam's ascent to becoming a force in Big East men's swimming and diving, 
During the 1996-1997 season whP-n they were freshmen. second place was unimaginable after finishing in seventh place. 
But things started to improve. 
"This program has madi-1 tremendous strides since we've been here," said Tony Fonseca, who swims mainly breaststrnke events. 
Through a strenuous training regi­men and a commitment to being the best, tho team made the jump to finish fourth place in the Big East in 1998 and serond in 1999. 
Head coach Tim Welsh credits the seniors for their leadership in making the repeat irnrond place Big East per­formance thi.s year possible. 
"The senior class has been our cata­lyst here as they have been all year," Welsh said. "We were here this week­end as a team finishing in second place largely through their vision, dream and commitment to swimming hard and training hard." 
Another way to measure the team's improvement is through the number of NCAA qualifying times the team has garnered. In 1998, the team had two qualifiers and improved from three qualifiers in 1999 to a record four this year. 
"The senior class has led this team from zero considerations as freshmen to a total of four as a team." Welsh said. "Now· that's a sign of improve­ment." 
Among the seven seniors on the team. Welsh singled out captain Hay Fitzpatrick as being key to the team's sucress. Fitzpatrick holds six University records and was a stand-out at this year's Hig East meet with a first place finish in the 200-yard freestyle and fifth in the 50-yard freestyle. He has seen marked improvement in his times since freshman year. after breaking his own University records in both the 200-and SO-freestyle this weekend. 
"Ray has been the curnerstone person on this team for all four years," Welsh said. "It is an amazing goal to get faster every year, but he's done it." 
Co-captain Sean Casey, who finished 13th in the 400-yard individual medley at thfl Hig East Championship, has also contributed to the team's ascent and was named one of the team's most improved swimmers in 1998-1999. 
Finishing strong at the Big East Championship this year was important, said Casey. 
"We have a lot of pride and have worked hard," Casey said. "We were pleased with our performance this weekend and stepped up when we needed to. When it got down to it, there was no way we were going to let any­one pass us on the last day." 
Fonseca agreed. 
"We trained too hard to let teams come back and beat us," said Fonseca. "Swimming at Notre Dame for four years has been the best experience of my life and this win only added to that." 

Rob Fetter, who swam on the team's 1999 Big East champion 400-yard freestyle relay team, whose win secured the team's second place finish, shared his teammate's sentiments. 
"This whole experience has been amazing," said Fetter. "To go from sev­enth place our freshman year to defending second place our senior year is unbelievable." 

Team stand-out Ryan Verlin, a junior, said the team will definitely feel the loss of the seven seniors who have led the team this year. 
"We will have a challenge next year," said Verlin. "We will lose a lot of great swimmers with the graduating class. But I think the underclassmen will step it up next year so we can retain our place in the Big East if not even move up to first place." 

Siegf,'Ued/PW Sexea T'UUia iK Siegf,,ue,L 
fff~aey/ffowa,u1/.£y~ ..Ca Eope1U.l.ff.Za. l,o.o.d 
aaul Vcuc.ce ..CeoolJ.K-3 7r,111-m ltto.J111i6oey 
PE SKOW--Pa,dy 3-5fJftl-o.u.toi.d.e PE Fadeg Ceeewaatioa m 'OW1!11.6i.ty. ffeob..A~ 7r,ffl­
o·»eitt Ki«.g o.6 ff(a,r.di Gtt.a.6 Co.«teGl 7fJftl-iff. o·»eitt 
KKO-U Hott. Po.ke4 Kigkf. 9fJHt,-l2aftl­"Di2eou. • o 0-U.lff. wu«l ..Sexiutf. Cko.co.e«te.. 9r,M-llpff,(, .£ew.i.3 "Dt.KKeJl. uKd. -Pki.£o.60-f>kwl. .£o.ue. -P'Ul.f,. 0 •COfflC.eJI. 
apr,efize.11. B1I, de33el(,f, pe,r.. ccu.q, e F,iee-0~ Gob Bo.wf-l,,iee wi& futo. G 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 21, 2000 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
HOCKEY 

ND defeats, ties Bowling Green 
Saint Mary's picks 
left wing Dan Carlson set up a
By BILL HART 

goal for senior right wing Joe
up third win of year 
By KATIE McVOY 
Sports ~ 1riter 
The Saint Mary's baskPtball team ended its lackluster sea­son on a high note with a 54­53 victory over Adrian College on Parent's Day at Angela Athletic Facility. 
The Belles needed the victo­rv on Saturday to ensure h·ome court advantage in the first game of the MIAA tourna­ment that begins Monday. 
Saint Mary's played excel­lent defense and offense throughout the game. but it was sophomore Kelly Jones that put thP team owr the top. 
"Kelly was extremely rnnsis­tfln t throughout the entire game," freshman Elisa Ryan said. "She dominated on offense." 
Jones led the offense with 22 points during the gamA, a per­sonal high and team high for the season. She went 3-for-6 from the foul line, scored eight field goals and one 3-pointer. 
Saint Mary's came into the game with one goal in mind ­to shut down Adrian's offense. They did just that. 
The Belles kept every Adrian player from scoring less than 10 points except for Sarah Vincke, and allowed only six points from the foul line. 
"We played very good defense," sophomore Jaime 
Senior Spam Writer 

Dusbabek from the left side of the rreasf': at the 15:01 mark.
Dineen said. "We kept the ball 
The Notrn Oame hor.key Freshman goaltender Tonyout of thP hands of Adrian's 
team took a major step Zasowski recorded an amaz­
big player, Ann Terpstra. Our 
towards securing the final ing 17-save first period, en 
press really bothued them 
Central Collegiatr. llockey mule to his 31 save perfor­
and helped us keep control." 
Association home ice playoff mance on the night. The
With Adrian's defense in 
spot, capturing three points Falcons almost put an end torheck, Saint Mary's gave its 
with a 5-3 win and a 1-1 tie his first-period shutout withoffense the chance to take the against Bowling Grnen. 0:29 left, al'lfH th11 puck
victorv. Joining Jones on 
"To come into the home rink bounced out of his glove and
offcns·e were Anne Blaire, 
of one of the hotlest teams in landed near the goal line. But
Julie Norman, Kristen Matha the league, and leave with Zasowski grabbed the puckand Jaime Dirrnen. Blairn had three out of four just before11 points in the game on one points is pretty it crossed
foul shot and five field goals. 
good." head "[Zasowski] saved us 

the goal. 
"Anne has been on fire the 
coach Dave early and he '.s been good "It was
last two weeks in prar.tice." 
Poulin said. our goal­
all year." 

Hyan sai.d. "Thf\ shots were With just a tending alljust falling !'or her." 
few games night."
Norman scored eight points remaining in the Dave Poulin Po u I i nfor the Belles and Matha and season, the play­said. "He
Irish head coach 
the Falcons would get no rins­er. 
The Irish closed the scoring with 0:18 left in the gamr, on an empty-netter by Carlson. Simon assisted on the goal. 
Simon, a native of 1'/orthern Ohio, is just one of the players who has come on strong dur­ing the final games of the sea­son. After Friday's five-point game. hr. has totaled three goals and five assists in his last three games. 
Saturday's game was a com­plete reversal from Friday's deluge of scoring. as the Falcons regrouped behind junior goaltr,nder Shawn Timm to battle back to a I -1 tie. 
The Irish drew first blood again, this time off a goal from freshman lef't wing Jake Wiegand at the 8:17 mark of the second. The goal. with assists from Dunlop and Evan Nielsen, was the first of the Michigan native's career. 
The Falcons scored the equalizer with just over eight minutes to play. when fresh­man fiyan Fultz lifted the puck in to the right side of the net. Both teams had opportu­nities in the overtime period, but the Irish only recorded one shot on goal during the extra period. 
With the weekend. Notre Dame (14-15-7. 11-10-6 CCHA) stays two points behind fourth-place Lake Superior. while they have opened up a two-point lead on sixth-place Ferris State and a three-point lead over Nebraska-Omaha. 
The Irish have one bye weekend before the last scrir.s of the season -a home-and­away against ser.ond-placr. Michigan State starting March 3. 

Dineen each scored seven. Norman and Dinef':n both added to total offense by hit­ting 3-point shots. 
The Belles were tied with the Bulldogs 21-21 at the end of the first half. 
Coming into the second half, the Belles put in a team effort for lhc win, using Parent's Day and the MIA/\ tournament as motivation. 
"It was a big team efft,irt," Dineen said. "The fact that this win would give us home court advantage and Parent's Day were big factors in the win." 
Saint Mary's will open the MIAA tournament this Monday at home against ninth-ranked Olivette at 7:30 pm. 
2000 Irish Iron Classic 
Names by Class Body Weight Bench Press 
Under 140 

Eric Ota 140 245 John Nydam 131 215 Ramon Y malay 125 195 
141-150 

Frank Straka 150 255 Ryan Sweeney 149 250 Beau Bonfanti 150 230 
151-160 

Tim O'Neil 160 305 Matthew Seigel 160 290 Donald Doan 156 275 
161-170 Dante Simonetti 166 300 Joe Parker 170 295 Michael Evangelist 170 290 
171-185 

Doug Lawrence 178 345 Byron Levkulich 184 345 Samuel Leonardo 175 330 
off picture f'or the CCIIA play­offs is still uncl,'ar. Even though 1 O of the 12 teams in the r,onferPnce qualify for the tournament. the top five teams claim home ice !'or the first round. The Irish, in fifth place, are separated from the fourth-and seventh-place teams by less than five points. 
The Irish set the tone for the weekend on Friday -formal­ly clinching a spot in the play­offs with a 5-3 win over Falcons. 
The visitors buill an early cushion of'f' a short-handed, unassisted goal by freshman center Connor Dunlop, 7 min­utes. ;-34 seconds into the first period. 

saved us 
early and 
he's been 
good all year." 
Falcon c11nter Tyler Knight prevented the shutout with four minutes remaining in a relatively quiet ser,ond period. 
The Irish answered Knight's goal with eight seconds left in the second. 
Simon scored a power-play goal off passes by Carlson and junior Ryan Dolder to push the lead to 3-1. 
The Falcons battled back at the 2:38 mark of the third period. Left wing Curtis Valentine scored from tho right point shortly after an Irish penalty had expired. 
The Irish struck back on another Simon goal -the eventual game-winner -off a pass from senior def'enseman Tyson Fraser. 
The Falcons closed the lead to 4-3 at the 4:58 mark but 
It was the second short­handed goal for tho Irish this season, with both sr,ornd by the St. Lfiuis native. Later in the period, passes by senior captain Ben Simon and junior 
186-195 

e Join the Trad 
Jason Visner 189 300 
Josh Marcum 189 300 
Dan Zach 192 300 
. s are now bein. 
196-2]5 

Shamus Rohn 215 320 
ager positions 
Jason Pawlak 214 305 Kevin Haley 199 275 
Over 215 

01 academic sch 
Jacob McGuigan 216 420 Joe Thomas 230 410 Mike McNair 236 370 
ay pick up applicatio .··· ffice of Student Activ. 
Visit The Observer 315 LaFortune 
online at observer.nd.edu 
line: February 2 
Monday, February 21 , 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
WM1 ;..Re­
'-{ov 001~ 
ON "T')ll:. l'f"' 
"°looR llF" 
1"\.\E. l113~R'I'{ 
Fox TROT 
SltoKEN C.I.OCIC. otJ 
'v1Rll.~t.,;, 

~£~. 'I'll{; EfR-."TI 
f,.t.E 

IN.::LEll .:;'tSTe:M. Tit 
£,PON!,1~

. , 
R ~ rl.'t 
TOM KEELEY 
01"" la~S.E! 'i.00 11.El>..LL.'( i~lW"' A HVt-\MJ C.OVl-
BILL AMEND 

THIS IS THE wol'<ST META­MoRPHOSIS I COUL.0 HAVE Dl<EAMED UP! \  YOU'LL BE FINE. J  TAKE THAT GRE&oR SAMSA (;,U'Y IN THE SooK I'VE BEEN READING ALL WEEK FOR EN&L1SH-HE TURNED INTO A C';,1ANT INSECT AND LOOK HOW WELL HE ADAP'TEO! \, A ,  1 THOUGHT HE DIED LONEL'f, M1SERA8L.E, ANO SHUNNED BY ALL. I\!n  I HAVEN'T &oT• TEN THAT F Alt I'M STILL ON PAGE ONE.'­~  100R sc>100L CALLED. ™EY WANT -rov To W£AR lrllS. \  

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 

JEFF BEAM 


beam.1 @nd edu 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Seldom seen 5 China's Chairman 8 Gomorrah's sister city 
13 Profess 
14 Ripsnorter 15 Words to live by 
16 Foremost 
17_were (seemingly) 18 Cosmopolitan's _Gurley Brown 19 Classic Disney character 21 Debt 
acknowledgment 
22 Baba 
23 "Listen up!" 
24 Archeologists' finds 28 Varieties 30 Close loudly 
31 Was on a jury 32 Mystery writer's 
prize 33 Close 34 Like Playboy 
models 35 Hard-to-eat-just• 
one item 38 Rickshaw 41 Legislative 
excess 42 December 25 
visitor 46 Colorado Indian 47 Bees' home 48 Time capsule 
activity 49 Say another way 51 "Oh yeah? _ 
who?" 52 Docs, for short 53 Decorative 
vessel 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
B O A T E R  T A P A S B A R  
ANNULI  OVERTONE  
P  GE S  


54 Shakespeare's shrew tamer 
57 Island (immigrants' site) 
59 Dr. Frankenstein's assistant 
60 Suffix with origin 
61 "Live free or die," to New Hampshire 
62 Snaillike 
63 Typesetting unit 
64 Merlin of football and TV 
65WNW's 
opposite 
66 Connery of 007 fame 
DOWN 1 Rioting 2 Was of use 3 Slowing a 
horse, with "in" 4 Brain-teasing Rubik 5 Like corn flakes 
Puzzle by John Greenman

sitting in milk 29 Riveted with 6 Et_ (and attentionothers) 30 Stock unit 
7 Unfortunate 33 Lincoln's hat 
8 Sharp divide 34 Skyrocket
9 Black-and-white 
cookies 36 Roasting rod 10 Actor Dom 37 Mazda 11 Old poem competitor 
38 Snarly dog 

39 Grazed 20 French dear 40 Outcomes 25 "Holy smoke!," 43 Lingerie item 
e.g. 

44 Traditional pudding 27 Mudhole ingredient 
Visit The Observer on the Web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

45 Election loser 55 Clashing figures?
47 Pop group with the 1997 hit 56 Beanies "MMMBop" 
57 Funnyman
48 Fruit on a bush 
Philips 50 Old hat 
58 Response to an 51 Feed, as a tire on-line joke 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95Q: per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACAOSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 
DAY: Jennifer Love Hewitt, Rue 
McClanahan, Jill Eikenberry, Kelsey 
Grammer, Mary-Chapin Carpenter, 
Anais Nin, Ann Sheridan, Erma 
Bomback, Barbara Jordan 
Happy Birthday: You will be 
meeting new people and forming 
new friendships this year. 1ne more 
you offer your community, the more 
you will get in return. Your involve­
ment in organizations that help oth­
ers will enhance your refutation and 
bring you a great deal o satisfaction. 
Be sure to leave some time for your­
self and your loved ones. Your mun­
bers: 10, 17, 22, 27, 38, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Opportunities for advancement will develop through hard work or col· leagues who believe in your talents. Present your ideas or consider get· ting into your ownbusiness. 000 
TAURUS (A}?~il 20-May 20): 
Romance will highlight your day if 
you get out and about. Social events, 
travel or groups you belong to will 
be a factor in bringing you in contact 
with interesting people. 00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your 
best financial gains will come 
through property investments. You 
can accomplish a great deal if you 
handle personal legal matters today. 
00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 11us will not be the best day to travel. New love connections will evolve through friends and/ or relatives. Catch up on your letter writing. 
0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may want to change your career direction. Opportunities should be present if you keep your eyes open. Your 

EUGENIA LAST  
ability to work hard and diligently at  
details will help. 000  
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You  
will be emotional concerning your  
personal life. However, if you  
involve yourself in social functions  
or activities that deal with children's  
events, your day will be favorable.  
000 LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct. 22): Behind­ •  
the-scenes activity will bring the  
highest-paying rewards. Do not hesi•  
tate to talk to superiors about  
advances. Use secret information to  
get your own way. 000  
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):  
Group activities will lead to better  
business opportunities and more  
romantic connections. You will gain  
valuable knowledge through tnose  
you talk to. 0000  
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec.  
21): Don't divulge your secrets to rol­ 
leagues who may not consider your  
best interests. You may be in the  
limelight for reasons you don't like.  
00 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22•Jan. 19):  
Travel to distant lands will be re•  
warding. You can gain great insight  
from the cultural knowledge you  
obtain. Sudden changes will be to  
your benefit. 00000  
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):  
You can make headway through  
secret or private investments or by  
taking care of other people's money  
or possessions. 000  
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):  
Deception regarding joint finances  ,,  
will set you off. Do not lend or  
borrow money or belongings. Take  
care of prevailing skin, bone or teeth  
problems. 000  

Birthday Baby: You'll be creative and practical, and that winning com­bination will lead you to success and happiness. You are sensitive with so much to offer. You will have close friends throughout life and family you can rely on. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialastcom, astromate.com.) 10 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 
---~-------------------~-------------------------------------------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
. l 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 I 
I 
I 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester Name Address-------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
• 
l_ 

Last race for the parents 
The senior women 
swimmers· parents

.. 
e:xperienced the last Big East Championship oftheir daughters' careers with tears ofjoy and sadness.

PORTS 
page 18 
O
THE 

page 24 BSERVER 


WOMEN'S BIG EAST SWIMMING AND DIVING CHAMPIONSHIPS 
Irish seniors finish on top with fourth title 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Saint Mary's Edirnr 
UNIONDALE. N.Y. 
Wi11ning may be a familiar feeling for the women's swim­ming and diving team, but it never gets old. Capturing their fourth CO nSC C: U ti V C See Also Big East 
"Irish capture
Championship 
virtually consecutive 
uncontested. second-place
the Irish 
finishes"
managed to 
put a new page20 
spill on an old 
feeling. 
Stepping onto the podium for the fourth time, the group was the first Notre Dame swimming team to win four consecutive conference cham­pionships. Winning the con­ference title with 829.50 points -more than 400 points ahead of second-place Rutgers -the team broke five Big East and Notre Dame 

• records in the process and won 14 of 20 events. rt was the best showing of any Notre Dame swim team during his tenure, said head coach Bailey Weathers. 
"This has probably been the best teams in terms of focus that I've seen," Weathers said. "When you work hard, you get rewards, and that's something really special to see. This is something that we're all going to remember 
see W. SWIM/page 19 

Notre Dame invades, conquers Garden State 

• Murphy drops second in the Big East with a 
win over top-10 Syracuse.career-high 35 in "We knew we had to get this upset of No. 25 win if we wanted to play in 
the NCAA
Seton Hall 

tourna­ment. and By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN we really Assistant Sports Editor came out and played h a r d , " 
Notre Dame found a way to create its own energy on the leading road Saturday, beating 25th­scorer ranked Seton Hall 76-74 on a 
T r o y last-sec-Murphy ond shot Notre Dame 76 said. "We squandered an opportunity
by David No, 25 Seton Hall 74 Graves. 

when we went oui io T h e Pittsburgh and Villanova, and 
• Irish were 2-10 on the road we don't have that many 
heading into Saturday's con­opportunities left." Murphy ignited the Irish
test in East Rutherford. N.J. But the Irish (16-10, 7-5 Big with career-high 35 points,
a East) weren't about to be 
including 21 in the second intimidated by the Seton llall Pirates (18-6, 10-4), who are see UPSET/page 17 


. Ratay sparks high a ranking saw Saturday seconds left, sending the that the Irish can pass the game into overtime and ulti­
Irish over No. 8 

test with flying colors. mately resulting in the Irish
Scarlet Knights When the Irish squandered win. a 19-point first-half lead and "Looking at the clock with trailed by six with 18 sec­30 seconds left when you 're
By KERRY SMITH 

onds left in down by six,
Assistant Sports Editor 

regulation, it you start to
"We have great people on 
looked to doubt it for a
If there was any doubt that our team that can make
Hutgers fans second,"the Irish have what it takes 
as if the great plays -Alicia junior for­
to make a successful run at 

Scarlet ward Kelley
Ratay is one ofthose
the NCAA title in March, 

Knights Siemon said,
Muffet people . .,
would be the "But we haveM c G r _ No. 5 Notre Dame 76 
team to great people
a w s No. 8 Rutgers 74 

finally break Kelly Siemon on our team.
squad 

N o t r e that can
erased Irish foiward
Dame's 18-make great
Satu-rday it with its stunning 

game win-plays
come-from-behind overtime 

ning streak -the longest in Alicia Hatay is one of those
win against the No, 8 

the nation. people. She had a tremen­Rutgers Sc~trlet Knights. 
But they underestimated dous game."
Critics of Notre Dame's No. 

Irish freshman guard Alicia Ratay hit the first of her
5 spot in the polls, who have 

natay. two late-game three-pointerscited that the Irish had not 
Hatay drained two 3-point­
been tested enough for that 

crs to tic the game with just see WOMEN/page 16 
at Norch Carolina 
vs. Olivette vs. Providence Softball Saturday, noon

SPORTS su MIAA Championships Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. Sf., at Arkansas Tournament 
Monday, 7:30 p.m. Friday -Sunday 
Baseball
ATA 
.,,

vs. Miami vs. Air Force at Loyola Tournament vs. Purdue Tuesday, 7 p.m. Saturday, noon
at Millington, Tenn. Saturday, 8 a.m.
t
GLANCE 
Thursday, 4 p.m. 








