
Who wants to be me? 
Violence escalades 
Regis has a new book. loves Notre Dame and 
Three Palestinians were shot and four /sraelies 

Wednesday
ditched Kath!/ Lee_ Check out the review lo see 
were killed Tuesday in Jerusalem. 
what he'll be doing during 1V's primetime_ 
News . page 5 
NOVEMBER15, 
Scene . page 12-13 
2000 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIV NO. 55 _ 

Forest lecture pays tribute to Dorthy Day 
By KATE STEER 
Associ:ue News Ediror 
To lead a life according to the life of God is the greatest thing we can do, said Jim Forest of the Orthodox Peace Fellowship in a talk about Dorothy Day Tuesday evening. 
Forest, who served in Day's Catholic Worker Houses for many years, recalled the words and lifo of the "trouble-· maker and saint." 
Forest first learned of Day and the Catholic Worker movement when he was declared a conscientious objector to the Vietnam war after participating in a prayer vigil organized by Catholic Workers as a protest against the Bay of Pigs invasion. Aller leaving the military, Forest devoted his life to helping oth­ers in the way that Day had established. 
"Iler basic message was, 'We are called by God to love one another,"' he said of Day. 
Forest. who has written a biography of Day, said that he is glad that people today do not receive a polished version of the person he knew. Part of what made her such an inspir­ing person was that she had flaws and made mistakes but 
was willing to claim them and 
go back to work, he said. 
"She will be not onlv the 
patron saint of the horneless 
and those who try to take care 
of them but people who lose 
their temper." 

However, according to 
Forest, hospitality was a 
trademark of Day's Catholic 
Worker philosophy. 

"She said that hospitality is 
simply practicing God's mercy 
to those around us," he said. 
"There is not only hospitality 
of the door, but also of the face 
and the heart." Hospitality 
includes not only taking in 
those who need shelter, food 
and clothing, but also those 
who are difficult to take in, 
including one's own enemies. 
This philosophy extended to 
the members of the movement 
as well. 

The people who make up the 
Catholic \\forker movement are strong and strong-willed, and every day in service is a struggle to maintain civility -and one's own ideals, Forest 
said. 

"One of the miracles of 
Dorothy's life is that she 
remained part of a conflict­
torn life for nearly a half cen­
tury," he said. 

see DAY/page 4 

Roche: questioning religion leads to faith 
maintaining an open frame of mind in regard to religion, call­ing internal questioning of faith "healthy," especially when used as "an opportunity to measure the validity of one's own reli­gion." 
"I absolutely endorse the idea that a loss of faith or the criti­cism of faith can ultimately strengthen [it]." he said. 
He highlighted the existence of other faiths, such as the funda­mentalist and sociological per­spectives. 
The fundamentalist perspec­tive emerges amid a crisis of faith and is generally a radically conservative view of religion. 
"There is no tolerance of a secular position that contradicts the religious," Roche said of this view, claiming that this position "produces tremendous conflict." 
The sociological perspective, he said, has much in common with skepticism. This school of Lhought recognizes the impor­tance of the moral component of religion but discredits the importance of faith and the divine. Roche further explained the sociological perspective as wanting to "use religion for alte­
see RELIGION/page 4 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
NEWS ANALYSIS 


TheNever­Ending Story: Election 2000 

By KIFLIN TURNER 
News Writer 

One week has passed since the contro­versial presidential election and the country is still eagerly awaiting the results. With Florida hanging in the bal­ance, the candidates are in a heated bat­tle over whether Florida ballots should be recounted. Circuit Judge Terry Lewis upheld the 5 p.m. deadline yesterday for the Florida recount originally set by Florida Republican Secretary of Statfl. Katherine Harris. 
The Gore campaign vowed to chal­lenge the decision, as stated by U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher. The halt in the recount is expected to 
confirm Bush the vic­ 
tor by 388 votes according to an unof- See Also  
ficial media tally. What then comes to mind is the general  "Lawyers in Florida:  
op11110n  of  the  ammended  
American people and what effects. if any, the election have has  votes must be counted"  
had on society. Especially alarming is  page9  
the possible aftermath  

of the lengthy election process on the future of the Electoral College as well as on financial markets. 
"I see it as an index of the system working not malfunctioning," said Donald Kommers, concurrent professor in the Notre Dame Law School, on the issue ofthe extended elections. 
With the elections dragging on for days, many Americans have voiced con­cern over the constitutionality of the Florida recount, as well as over the inci­dents that have occurred in various Floridian counties 
"The [further away] we keep getting from the election it seems like people are more frustrated; it's starting to look real­ly petty among the candidates," said Susan Alexander, associate professor of sociology at Saint Mary's. 
Many voters are having a difficult time accepting the voting delay, said Sean Savage, Saint Mary's associate professor of political scicne. 
"Generally Americans expect much more of an immediate, specific response or the majority will than they did more than 200 years ago when the Electoral College was developed and instituted," Savage said. 
Kommers agreed. 

"These people have no historical sense," he added. "When the Electoral College functioned during the early 19th Century it was really days and weeks before anyone knew who was going to be elected. I guess we feel differently because of modern technology." 
"From the polls I've seen so far about two-thirds of all Americans say they 
see ELECTION/page 4 

By ANDREW THAGARD 
News Writer 
Intellect and religion can mix, said Mark Roche, dean of the College of Arts and Letters in a lectured titled "Religion and Intellectuals" Tuesday. 
"The idea that intellectuals cannot be religious ... is irra­·tional and embarrassing," Roche 
said. 
Approximately 25 students and 
professors attended the talk held 
at the Ilesburgh Library Lounge. 
According to Roche, most peo­ple initially hold a position of "simple faith." He characterized this perspective as one of total acceptance of a -religion, as a "moment of na'ive piety." 
"Most of us at Notre Dame 
have been raised in a religious 
household and we don't initially 
question our religious beliefs," 
he said. 
·While Roche said he admires 
some aspects of this position on 
religion, he added that it does 
nut allow a person to defend his 
or her l'aith against others and 
forces them to downplay prob­
lems within their religious insti­
tution. 
Instead, Roche advocated 
Wednesday, November 15, 2000
page 2 The Oburver . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Be nice to me, I'm sick. 
I hate being sick. 
Like many of you, I was attacked by the nasty flu bug. Unfortunately for me thuugh, I never got the chance to get over it. The expected five days turned into a week, and now two. After hacking up a rainbow and a 

lung. I decided to brave  
Heath Services to hope- Kelly Hager  
fully find out what was  
going on. Yup, I have, or  
should I say had, the flu. The ironic thing: I work  Copy Editor  
with Community  
Outreach as a Flubuster  
-a person who goes into  

the community to vaccinate people -I should have known better. I should have gotten vac­cinated. I should have read the emails instead of deleting.them. read the posters instead of walking past them. I should have taken the time to get the shot. 
Then after battling the flu for a week, I was diagnosed with Pneumonia. I have been sick before, but it has never really affected my lungs. There is no feeling that can compare to the terror that pulsates through your body when you cannot grab your breath to walk to the bathroom. or find the air to speak. 
My first couple or days in quarantine were extremely miserable. I was in and out of the EH and doctor's office and scared to death. I didn't really move too much from my bed except to go to the restroom and to Health Services. And I really didn't want to move either. 
It was extremely lonely. 

I never had a television in my room, I was never in my dorm room enough to really sit and watch it. I tried to read and color to keep myself entertained. However, after only two days of sitting and staring at the wall. I real­ized I was not St. Clare of Assisi and I broke down and had my friends get me a small TV. And the next day. there was cable. And it was good. 
My friends always joked that all Health Services can offer regarding medical care are popsides. But I am thankful because lucky for me, the popsicles are buddy pops -you know, the ones with two sticks you break and share with a buddy? Those popsicles gave me an excuse not only to venture out of my room, but also share some time and popsicle good­ness with a friend. 
It amazes me how people have come to visit me during this whole ordeal. And, 1thank them. My friends did everything from smug­gling dining hall food to helping me find my remote. Some even offered to vaccuum my 11oor and iron my pajamas stating, "!Icy, what are friends for?" 
So, now a few weeks later I am still sick and counting off the days until I can go home for Thanksgiving. 1am ready. I long for my own bed and I crave my dad's special camp­bell's soup. I want my mommy. 

You might recognize my name as the per­son who begs people not to smoke, and not to eat saccharin and sorbitol. Yeah, even us health freaks get sick. And, I am afraid that all of the ginseng and echinacea will not cure me. I just need more time, more prescriptions -and hopefully, more popsicles. 
Oh yes, and if you haven't been vaccinated ycit, plciase do so. Being sick is no fun. Especially if'you don't have a TV. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those oJThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene I.aura Rompf Laura Kelly Kelly Hager Graphics Liz Zanoni Jose Cuellar 
Sports Production Kathleen O'Brien Rachael Protzman Viewpoint Lab Tech Lane Herrington Meg Kroener 

'11,, Oli><rver (USPS 59'1 2-4000) i• published Munwy 1hrough Friwy excop1 during ,xam and vac•tion periods. Tho Ob,crver is a mrmbcr of th• A«uciateJ Pm•. All rq,roduction riglus a,e "'"'rved. 
THIS WEEK IN MICHIANA  
Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  Saturday  
. Concert: Notre Dame  . Workshop: Shopsmith  . Performance: "Just  . Performance: "Alice in  
Chorale and Chamber  Inc. specialisL-i will demon­ Singin' and Dancin' Into the  Wonderland" 10 a.m. and  
Orhestra, 8 p.m., Sacred  strate woodworking tech­ Holidays" by The Company,  1 p.m., Mendel Centtir  
Hearl Basilica  niqes, Scottsdale Mall  8 p.m., Batte! Community  Mainstage, LakP Michigan  
. Theater: "Love's Fire,"  . Lecture: "Seeing the  Center, Mishawaka  College, Benton Harbor  
7:30 p.m.• Washington  Elephant" by James  _. Lecture: Arun Ghandhi,  . Workshop: Workshop  
Hall  Dunkerley, 4:15 p.m.,  5:30 p.m., JUSB Main  for church organists.  
Hesburgh Center  Auditorium  1 p.m .. South Bend  

Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Michigan student dies after binge drinking 
ANN ARBOR was a loyal friend to many," Park said. 
In the late 1980s, Byung Soo Kim Kim's parents were juined by came to the University of Michigan 
University oflicials. wearing white rib­while his father. Ha Young Kim, was a bons in memory of Kim. who visiting professor. When Byung Soo addressed the prob!f)m of "heavy was ready to go to college, he episodic drinking." returned to Ann Arbor. Kim passed out after drinking 20 
The Engineering sophomore cele­shots. Friends put him in a back bed­brated his 21st birthday Friday night, room to recover. An hour later, they a day late, at a friend's home al near discovered Kim was not breathing and North Campus. According to the Ann called an ambulance. Arbor Police Department he tried to Ann Arbor Police Department oflicer drink 21 shots of Scotch whiskey. Kim Eric Bowles rc~pondcd to the apart­passed out early Saturday morning ment and found Kim and another stu­after taking 20 shots in about 10 min­Korea on Sunday. His mother, Jung dent, who was breathing, unconscious utes. Sun Park, spoke at a press conference in the bedroom. Bowles began car­
His time at the University ended Monday afternoon. diopulmonary resuscitation on Kim tragically when he died Monday at 6 "We hope that all who knew our son before paramedics arrived. The other 
a.m. following more than two days in will remember him as selfless, sup­student was taken to the hospital 
intensive care. portive, considerate, loving and kind. along with Kim and has bnen Kim's parents arrived from South He had brought great joy to us and released. 

MIAMI UNIVERSITY 
Fraternity fire leaves one injured 

A burning candle left unattended sparked a blaze around 5 a.m. Friday morning at the Sigma Chi fraterni­ty house, according to Oxford Fire Department Chief Len Endress. The fire, which originated on the west wing of the second floor, left one man in serious condition, dis­placed 45 residents. and caused $450,000 to $500,000 in damage to the building and in the loss of personal possessions. Nashville native Robert Ammarell remains in the Miami Valley Regional Hospital for treatment for smoke inhalation. College Corner firefighters, who were called in to assist the Oxford Fire Department, found Ammarell unconscious in the third-floor bathroom using a thermal-imaging camera to "see" through the billow­ing black smoke. The zoology major was carried out ol' the building and airf1ighted to Miami Valley in critical condition. Ammarell did regain consciousness and was upgraded to serious condition late Friday evening. He remained in serious condition Monday, according to Miami University Director of News and Public Information Holly Wissing. 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 
Study shows nicotine targets brain 
Funded by smokers themselves, researchers havo found that nicotine degenerates the part of the brain that controls sexual arousal, emotional control and HEM sleep. Nicotine causes degeneration in one part of the brain, according to University of California-Los Angeles profes~or of psychology Gaylord Ellison. who announced the finding in the journal Neuropharmacology, and at this year's meeting of the Society for Neuroscience. Ellison found that nico­tine causes selective degeneration of the fasciculus retroflexus, the part of the higher brain that primari­ly controls the dopamine and serotonin levcils in the body.Dopamine controls movement, emotional response, and the ability to experience pleasure and pain, while serotonin regulates a person's mood. In past research, Ellison's team has shown that drugs such as amphetamines, cocaine and ecstasy damage one half of the fasciculus retrol'lexus. but new research shows that nicotine affects the other half. 


LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
Ac.:cuWeaUier ~islfocdaytiire condiurnis ,md high remper;uures 
I 
J,,......
/ 
['· 
' 
' 
Thurs~ay 
I 
Friday/ Saturday
. 
r 

~.a..&.~ 
O 2000 AceuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY
Sunday
: 

@"'"'(b D D D D D D 
High Low Shower• Raio T-atorm, Flurrie• Snow k:• Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloud
Monday 

Via Auocill_,. P,....
J,. ('
_µ·,/\,I-', ."",~ 
_) 

Atlanta 56 38 Las Vegas 49 31 Portland 56 31 
Baltimore 44 21 Memphis 48 35 Sacramento 53 35 
Boston 48 34 Milwaukee 39 28 St. Louis 56 38
~,~-~9.GQ~ ~Ll 

Showers T-storms Rain Flurrl8s Snow /cs Sunny Pr. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 41 30 New York 48 35 Tampa 75 49 Vi.w ~redPr8-a Oraphbr.t Houston 60 41 Philadelphia 47 32 Washington DC 41 28 
Wednesday, November 15, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Koestner: date rape is an important ~ue on college campuses 
By COLLEN McCARTHY Associate N,:ws Editor 
When Katie Koestner began college in the fall ol' 1990 at the College of William and Mary in Virginia, she never imagined that her plans for the future would have led her tu giving the speech she did before students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's on Tuesday night. 
"When l started college I had more than a few plans, none of which worked out, and now rm standing here in front of all of you," Koestner said. 
Koestner's life was changed in the fall of her freshman year when she was raped by a fellow student she had been dating casually. After going on a date with the student named Peter. Koestner invited him buck to her dorm room with the intentions of dancing. However. Peter had other plans. At one point while in her room. she turned around and saw he was in only his boxers and socks. 
Koestner acknowledged that she did not think she was sending him a message that she wanted to have sex with him just because she invited him back to her room. 
"Some might say that I was naive." said Koestner. "l guess I was naive if your definition of naive is someone who thinks that you can like some­I did that, and started to fall one, be in a room alone with asleep, I l:ould feel him and he someone and not havfl sex." started to kiss me and I said 
Koestner added that what ·no."' complicated the situation is Koestner said people have that she actually liked Peter. ask,:id her why she didn't 
"I should remind you that I scream or hit him to stop liked him and I don't want you Peter from raping her. to forget that because if that "I didn't scream because do wasn't the case, the whole you know what I did'? I bit a issue would be crystal clear," hole through the inside of my she said. cheek and I still have the scar 
Tickling and teasing tran­today so maybe that is why I spired into a wrestling match didn't scream, and I didn't hit that night that left her on the him because I had my arms floor pinned under Peter's crossed over my chest trying weight with him holding her to protect myself," she said. hands above her head by her Koestner later told her resi­wrists and kissing her even dent advisor about the inci­though she said "no." dent and reported ii to the 
After the incident. Koestner dean of her college. She didn't tell Peter to leave her wasn't aware of the 72-hour 
room  that  time period  
night.  to  go  to  a  
"I can't tell you why I didn't throw him out of  "/ should remind you that I liked him and I don't ·what you to forget that  hospital to have evi­dence col­lected. She  
my  room,  because ifthat wan 'st the  went  to  
she said. "Maybe it was because  case, the whole issue would be crystal clear."  campus police and they con­ 
I thought he  ducted  an  
would just sleep it off and then go  Katie Koestner rape survivor  investigation and Peter was brought  
homfl in the  to a hearing,  
morning but  found guilty  

when he awoke, he saw me and told to stay out of her resi­huddled in the corner and I dence hall for the rest of the hadn't slept all night. He said I semester. He was later thrown should lay down and close my out of school after being found eyes and get some sleep. When guilty of raping a second woman. Koestner also noted just as effective. that rape occurs 84 percent of "So for the men in the room. the time between individuals I have only 50 minutes of your who know each other. Only 16 life, and you can blow me off if percent of you want rapes are to, but 
committed am asking
"l can't tell you why I
b y for your strangers. didn't throw him out of my help." 
"When I room. Maybe it was Koestner was 18. said that
because I thought he
date rape she had d i d n ' t would just sleep it off... " two rea­exist," said sons for Koestner. travelling
Katie Koestner

"My dad to the more 

rape survivor

sent me to than 800 school schools she with a can has visited of mace to protect me, but speaking about date rape. She when I went on my date with said she docs it in hopes that Peter. I didn't think I needed there will be one day without rnv mace because I didn't any rapes occurring and in al;cessorize for a date with hope that she can reach some­Prince Charming with a can of one with her message and mace." prevent rape or help others 
Koestner appealed to the assist someone who has been men in the audience. raped. 
'Tm here at Notre Dame for In her t'inal appeal to the the third time and I'm thinking men in the audience' she about all the men in this room asked them to leave "angry but also all the men who arc and angry enough to do some­uot here who saw the ads for thing more about this issue ol' the lecture and said 'f don't rape than just be here need to go, it's not my issue, tonight.'' I'm not a rapist,.,, said For women, Koestner Koestner. "I think I could tell encouraged them to live each this story of the worst night of day deciding what one is vvill• my life a thousand times but if ing to take and what one is not just one of the bravest men in willjng to take, to be strong this room would stand in the for one's self and to recognize middle of campus and say that one's best self-defense is 'rape is wrong' it would be self-esteem. 

Wednesday, November I 5, 2000
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Day 
continued from page 1 
Perhaps what brought Day through such a dedicated and controversial life was her devotion to her religion. "While she was one of the freest persons in our society, she was also one of the most disciplined. especially in her religious life," Forest said. She didn't let a day pass-without recognizing the Blessed Sacrament. 
She prayed her way through many maJor life events from her conversion to the birth of a daughter out of wedlock to the collapse of' her common-law marriage, Forest said. 
Her inl1uence·on the lives of' others continues today, as the Catholic Worker movement continues to work to help those in need. Forest said that every day he is reminded of 





Religion 
continued from page 1 
rior purposes." 
In order to attain a more moderate view of faith and religion, he suggested combin­ing favorable aspects of each perspective. This perspective would lack the blind accep­tance of one's own religion but recognize the inherent virtues of religion. Additionally, Hoche maintained that it would allow religion to be weighed against reason, while recognizing its contributions to society. 
her effect on his own lif'e. 
"She made me more capable of seeing beauty where I would have seen rubbish." 
Day has made Forest think more about the words of Christ than anyone else, he said. 
"Every time I open the door to a guest is partly because of Dorothy Day. Every time I think about things in the bright light of the gospel rather than the dim light of politics and money is partly because of Dorothy Day. Every time I try to overcome mean­ness and selfishness rising up in myself' is partly because of Dorothy Day. Every lime I resist the impulse to buy something I can get along without and use the money for some better purpose is partly thanks to Dorothy Day. Every time I try to see Christ's pres­ence in a stranger, there again I O\Ve a debt to Dorothy Day." 
The talk was sponsored by Pax Christi. 
Hoche said that this perspec­tive is a major component of the world's major religions, especially Christianity. He praised Notre Dame as an institution that embraced this view. 

"Notre Dame tries to help students to develop a philoso­phy of faith which is why it's a good place to have a crisis of faith," Roche said. 
Roche encouraged his audi­ence to continue to reflect on the issues behind religion and intellectualism. 

"With grace I think that we today can find a path that brings together reason and faith in a productive way. 

Election 
continued from page I 
would rather have the count be 
accurate than quick, and so far 
Americans have been patient 
with the whole process," said 
Savage. "As a consequence of all 
this. we'll probably have the 
Electoral College subjected to 
the greatest scrutiny ever, espe­
cially in modern century." 

If in the event Democrat presi­dential candidate Al Gore wins the popular vote and Republican candidate George W. Bush wins the Electoral College vote, there is a strong possibility that the · American opinion of the voting process may sour and lead to reform. Savage said. 
"I think we could have proba­bly the most serious effort in modern times to amend the Constitution," he said. 
Kommers, howevor, said that the efficiency concerns of the Electoral College and talks of absolving it are misguided. 
"There's a lot of exaggerated rhetoric over what this ail means," said Kommers. "I think the Electoral College gives the states, particularly the small states more clout in· the federal system than would otherwise be the case. So for federalistic rea­sons we should probably be in favor of retaining the Electoral College." 
Not only has the delay in elec­tions results sparked debate on the efficiency of the Electoral College, but the doubt of who will become the next leader of the United States has had specu­lated effects on the stock mar­kets during the last week. 
Former Secretary of State James Baker, representing the Bush campaign, said that the election confusion was causing financial market profits to decline, and that the market may continue to suffer until Dec. 18, when the Electoral College will meet to vote in the next president. 
1'1 think the presidential elec­tion situation is being blamed for a lot of the decline in the stock market," said Claude Renshaw, professor of the College of Business Administration and Economics at Saint Mary's. 
"But I think the real reason for the decline in the stock mar­ket is just because people are coming to the realization that so many com­panies have more than 19,000 ballots to bn thrown out due to the com­plaints from several voters who accidlmlally voted for Pat Buchanan thinking they were voting for Al Gore. 
Savage said that these errors may cause a national reform to establish uniform standards for voling processes. 
"I don't know if !the govern­ment] is going to achieve that kind of national uniformity, but I think at least at lhP state level, we may see each state trying to get greater similarity in all dif­ferent counties about what kind of system is used for voting," he said. 
Some peo­
ple also havo 

been over­"/ think we could have suggested valued in the that the
probably the most serious 
last year," closeness of'
effort in modern times to
he added. the presiden­
Henshaw ammend the Constitution." tial race said the might also decline of bring about
Sean Savage 
the stock change in the market is SMC associate professor number of' 
nothing new, and that the market had been showing signs of decline before the presiden­tial elections began. 
"If you look at the trend of the last several months, the decline in the market started and con­tinued long before a question of the presidential election came in," he said. "How do you explain all the decline that took place about 10 months before the election'?" 
Despite the prediction that the market would continue to dwin­dle during the post-election process, yesterday proved the idea false when the markets began to rise. 
Other election discrepancies have surfaced lately including a Florida voting mishap, causing 
American cit­izens who choose to vote in the future. 
"Even as close as this race has been all along. it did not make much impact on voter turnout, but the controversy now might make more of' a difference," said Alexander. With Bush recaptur­ing New Mexico by a slim mar­gin of 17 votes after it had been awarded to Gore, and the gener­al narrow scope of the elections. the voting process has raised more interest on behalf ol' the voters, said Alexander. 
"I do think it is making people far more attentive to the process," she added. "The actu­al strategy of' the campaign I think is largely going to be over­shadowed by the post-election strategy." 
~ 

ARTHURANDERSEN 


Meet. Greet. And eat. 
Assurance Business Consulting Corporate Finance eBusiness Human Capital Legal Services Outsourcing 
Risk Consulting Tax Services 
Interested in a career at Arthur Andersen? Want an internship next summer? 
Join us at our "Meet the Firm!" event on November 28. We'll present descriptions of what we do-in all our services. Come learn about exciting opportunities at one of the world's leading professional services firms. 
Meet the Firm Night! 
Auditorium Center for Continuing Education Tuesday, November 28 
6:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. 
Please bring an updated resume. And bring your appetite-we'll have pizza and refreshments! 
www.arthurandersen.com 
Note: The services offered in particular areas may depend on local regulations. In some locations, legal and/or tax services are provided by Andersen Legal, the international network of law firms that is associated with Andersen Worldwide SC. 
Arthur Andersen refers to the U.S. firm of Arthur Andersen LLP and other members of ttie Arthur Andersen global client service network. © 2000 Arthur Andersen. All rights reserved. 


GNATION 


Wednesday, November 15, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE ORSERVEH WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Foreigners protest Cuba embargo: 
Thousands of pro-Cuba foreigners from around the world -including hundreds of Americans -joined fide! Castro on Tuesday to demand an end to the 40-year-old U.S. trade embargo against the communist island. Flags from Brazil. the African National Congress, New Zealand and other countries and organizalions fluttered amid a sea of Cuban flags as the crowd gathered outside the 
U.S. Interests Section, the American mission here. 

Protesters want president ejected: 
Thousands of Philippine workers and students staged a rally Tuesday near the palace of President Joseph Estrada, with demands that he step down without waiting for the outcome ol' an impeachment trial for corruption. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Commission argue on trade talks: 
A new round of multinational trade talks would be one way to deal with America's lop­sided trade deficit, a congressionally appoint­ed commission said Tuesday. The panel's Hepublicans and Democrats differed on whether labor and environmental issues should be part of the talks. The 12-member 
U.S. Trade Deficit Review Commission, divid­ed equally between the parties. also came to divergent conclusions on causes and conse­quences of the growing trade deficit, with Democrats expressing more pessimism about its effects on American life. 
Ford offers to sub Goodyear tires: 
Ford Motor Company said Tuesday that con­sumers ordering 2001 Ford Explorers may substitute Goodyear tires for Firestone brands questioned in a 6.5 million tire recall the automaker has blamed for declining sales of the sport utility vehicle. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 


Church awaits federal seizure: 
Hundreds of parishioners whose Indianapolis church was ordered seized in a $6 million dis­pute with the IRS prayed and wept Tuesday as lhey awaited the arrival of federal marshals. Experts believe the U.S. government has never before seized a church in a dispute over taxes. Singing "Paith of our Fathers," mem­bers and supporters of the Indianapolis Baptist Temple worshipped for what they believed would be the last time inside the church. A noon deadline for the Baptist inde­pendent congregation to vacate its property. 
Market Watch , 1 /1 4 
Dow 

]ONES  10,681.06  +163.81  
Up: l,838  Same, 497  !ffl1:••  Composite Volume: N/A  
AMEX:·  
 
Nasda,1:  3138.27  +171.55  
NYSE:·  "648.52  
 
S&P 500:  1382.95  +31.69  

TOP5VOLUMELEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE ORACLE CORP iORCl.) + 14.67 +3.63 28.JH WURLDCOM !NC (WCUM) ,4.18 +0.68 17.06 CISCO SYSTEMS (C5CO) +545 tl.7~ 53.12 INTEL CORP (!NTC) ,7.21 •2.75 40.'/4 NASDAQ IOU SHAR (QQQ) ,H.25 +5.77 75.84 

ISRAEL 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
Israel imposed a strin­gent blockade around Palestinian communities Tuesday in response to the deadly drive-by shootings of Israelis, paralyzing nor­mal life but failing to halt violence. At least three Palestinians were killed in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
The killings of four Israelis on Monday was part of a new "death on the roads" terror cam­paign by Palestinian mili­tants, Israel said. Palestinian leaders harshly condemned the army cor­don around the territories they control. 
It came as Prime Minister Ehud Barak head­ed home from a U.S. trip that produced no peace breakthroughs, and as Israelis and Palestinians braced for potentially widespread confrontations Wednesday -the 12th anniversary of a symbolic declaration of Palestinian independence. 
"The (Palestinian) state will be fundamental to peace in the Middle East," Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat declared upon his return to Gaza Tuesday from an Islamic summit in Qatar. 
Arafat, who was in exile when he first declared Palestinian independence on Nov. 15, 1988, has repeatedly promised that statehood would arrive this year. Some Palestinians have called for a unilateral declaration Wednesday. 
But with the peace process derailed by vio­lence, no such move is planned, Palestinian lead­ers said. Israel, mean­while, has warned that it would respond harshly to any one-sided action by the Palestinians. 
"There will be no deci­sion on the Palestinian state in the coming few days," said Yasser Abed Rabbo, the Palestinian information minister. 
In Tuesday's violence, three teen-agers, aged 13­19, were shot dead by Israeli troops in the West Bank and Gaza, hospital doctors said. Israel, how­ever, denied that its solid­ers had killed the two youths in Gaza, calling reports of the incident part of the "campaign of Palestinian lies that have inflamed the territories." 
In a fourth case, Palestinians said a 50­year-old man died after settlers threw rocks at his car. The man was hit in the chest by a huge rock. 

EGYPT 
Police injure 40 voters in protest 
A.•ociared Pres• 
EL-AMAR 

Police fired live ammunition and pummeled opposition supporters with batons and tear gas in clashes Tuesday that left five people dead and 40 injured during the final round of parliamentary voting. 
In the Nile Delta village of El­Amar, 20 miles north of Cairo, fight­ing erupted when supporters of an independent candidate broke down-the doors of polling stations after they were not allowed to enter to vote, according to residents and police speaking on condition of anonvmitv. 
Four people were killed and five injured there. 
Hundreds of voters in Shubra El Kheima, in northern Cairo. also clashed with police Tuesday when polls did not open on time. Police, some on borseback, fired into the crowd after attacking the protesters wiih batons and dogs and using tear gas. That clash left one dead and 35 people -including children ­injured. 
Police blocked polling stations and fired tear gas at voters in the Cairo district of Maadi. In Hawamdiya. a district of Cairo, police detained 7 S people for election-related distur­bances, according to officials. 
"Is this the democracy thal (President Hosni) Mubarak is calling for?" asked Kamal Abdel Karim, who said he was stopped from entering a polling station in Maadi. 
page 6 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, November I5, 2000 
CREDIT 
FIRST 
BOSTON
SUISSE 

PUSH I NG THE ENVELOPE. BREAKING BOUNDARIES. RAW ENTREPRENEURIALISM. YES, WE'RE TALKING ABOUT INVESTMENT BANKING. 

In a world that changes by the hour, the challenge is to lead the change yourself. To identify trends and then capitalize on them. Now that Credit Suisse First Boston and Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette have merged to form the preeminent global financial services firm, there's never been a better time to join our team. Whether your interests are in investment banking, private client services, equities, fixed income or IT, you'll find a dynamic environment that values one thing above all else. You. Your development. Your contribution. Your entrepreneurialism. Above all, you won't just learn about the world of business. You'll affect it. We invite you to get to know us. 
EMPOWERING CHANGE:M 
@2000 Credit Suisse First Boston Corp. All rights reserved. 

Wednesday, November 15, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Panel discussion highlights fetninislll and wolllen's issues 
"Women deserve the best educa­
By KATIE MILLER 
tion they can acquire. It is impor­
News Writer 
tant to understand that the prima­
Issues surrounding fominism of ry value of education is not to I.he past, present, and future were make money, but to enrich your discussed by the Ladies of Notre life," she said. Dame/Saint Mary's at Carroll Georgia Bain, who graduated Auditorium Tuesday night. from Saint Mary's in 1958 
A panel composed or Cour Bain was from a middle-class women. each from a dillerent gen­family that supported her aspira­eration. illustra!Pd the way femi­tions. nism has touched their lives. After graduating from Saint 
"We are all women; f'rminism Mary's. she interviewed for a job at affect~ us all," said Jane Syburg. AT&T. Before the interview, Bain group drnir mid moderator. "This re1,;alled that she decided to is a complicated issue; the four remove her engagement ring. speakers have mixed feelings and Nler receiving the job, Bain asked times have changnd0 her female interviewer if she 
"The first feminist in my lifo was would have been hired had she my father," said Mollie Bernard. worn her ring: her answer was no. founder of the Stanley-Clark She continued to wor!.< for the com­school. "His ideal woman had a pany, but eventually decided l.O say broad education." at home v..ith her children. 
Bernard. a mother of 10 who "During the '70s, I became received a tlwology graduate involved with a group called degree from Notn1 Dame, started 'Women in theology at \iotre the Stanlev-Clark school in 1958 Dame.' This was a conscious-rai'>­when sh~ and her husband ing experience," said Bain. "I final-. became unhappy with the local ly had a name for what I had long schools. felt-feminism. There was no man boys," Bartel said. ''I've become was at best barren. There were no After graduating college, she
One-third of the children hating involved and I never burnt more familiar with the idea that adult women on campus," she was in the first management group 
enrolled in 1959 were children of my bra." 
single sex education is beneficial said. "The tradition was all male; it containing women that her compa­
Notre Dame faculty. Ac; the school The group, Bain said, discussed for young women and my commit­was an unusual experience and ny had ever hired and trained.
flourished, Bernard became even gender stereotypes and issues such ment to college age women is a choice for me to have made." "When I started work, I realized
more involved. as rape and domestic violence. passionate one." Toni Fein, new to the Ladies of what I had gained," Fein said. "I
"In 1962, I was pregnant with "If a woman was raped, ii. was Bartel attended Saint Mary's Notre Dame/Saint Mary's, said she was aware that I was breaking
my seventh child, and felt that I asked what she was wearing, now Academy during her high school was encouraged in high school and barriers."
needed to be at home with my chil-. legal action is taken; domestic vio­years where she was very comfort­college to take advanced math and Fein went back to school for adren," she said. lence used to be a private affair, able in the single-gender environ­science classes, courses that previ­master's degree in education,
After spending two years at now it is a public crime," she 
ment. "I thought that I was equal ously had been recommened only before deciding to stay at homehome, Bernard was soon volun­added. 
to men, but also the same as men to males. with her children.
teering in Catholic schools. She Ellen Syburg Bartel, currently -now I think that's absurd," she "I represent the first generation "At this point, we decided totook a position at Sacred Heart the president of an all-women's said. of women who benefited from the maximize my husband's career,"
Parish as director of religious edu­college preparatory school. attend­Bartel became one of the 300 feminist movement ½ithout being she said. "I felt shortcomings of
cation. It was at this time that ed Notre Dame the first year young women in a group of 6,000 directly involved," said the feminism. As an educated woman, 
Bernard decided to further her women were admitted. undergraduates her freshman University of Chicago graduate. it is not easy to stay at home. We
own education. She enrolled in 'Through my work, I've recog­year at Notre Dame. "To me, feminist ideas always as women fail to celebrate thegraduate school at Notre Dame for nized that women's needs are dif­"It was an institution in transi­seemed reasonable, I was sur­choices we have and fail to make
free as a faculty member's wife. ferent from that of young men and tion; the environment for women prised that they were an issue." those choices." 


Career Opportunities 
Jones Lang LaSalle is the world's leading real estate serv­ices and investment management firm, with a portfolio of approximately 700 million square feet (65 million square meters) of property under management world­wide. We meet the comprehensive real estate needs of our corporate and institutional clients through our pres­ence in 100 key markets across five continents. 
POSITION 

We are now hiring for Financial Analysts in our Capital_ Markets, Development Services, Global Consulting. Land Services, LaSalle Investment Management, Leasing and Management and Tenant Representation businesses, with opportunities in Atlanta, Baltimore, Chicago, Dallas, Denver, New York, San Francisco and Washington D.C. 
www.joneslanglasalle.com 
EDUCATION 
All majors are welcome. Strong quantitative aptitude, analytical ability, and communication skills are required, INTERVIEW DATES On-campus interviews will be held on November 29 and 
30. Additional information is available at the Career Placement Office and on our website at www.joneslan­glasalle.com. 
(©)) 
JONES LANG 
LASALLE,. 
C.2000 Jonea Lang LaSalle IP. Jnc.AII Tights rr.served. 

page 8 Wednesday, November 15, 2000
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

20o/ooff All Notre Dame· 
':°" \ 
.._ -I,'\.\ I 
I •. 

Clothing and ·­Gift Items* 





HAMMES 

NOTRE D 


BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
631-6316 www.ndcatalog.com 

*Student ID Required 
*Does not include the following: 
Books, CD's, tapes, school and office supplies, computer supplies, art supplies, l-Ieaith &Beauty. 
Wednesday, November 15, 2000 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
Lawyers in Florida: a1DD1ended votes lllust be counted 
counties' justifications by 2 p.m. tional votes for Gore. the general e]ection will remain in doubt 
Associated Press 
Wednesday. · Two separate appeals were heading and subject to additional litigation." "If the secretary of state arbitrarily for courts in Tallahassee, the state capi­Also Tuesday, the GOP filed notice that
T ALL/\HASSEE, Fla. 

refuses to accept the amended returns tal. and yet another challenge was they planned to appeal a federal judge'sA new day in Florida's chaotic presi­based on the recount and violates what headed for a federal appeals court in ruling that allowed the recounts to godential vote count. a new deadline. 
this court has ruled ... then we will be Atlanta. forward.
Lawyers are hopscotching across the back in court," said David Boies. the lat­Volusia County challenged Lewis' rul­The GOP claims the manual recounts state dmllenging election law arcania, est high-profile lawyer to joiu Gore's ing in a midlevcl appeals court Tuesday, arc unconstitutional since they meanwhiln the Republican state official over­legal team. with the expectation some voters areseeing; the crucial tally laid down a The Gore camp said the recounts that the state treated cliff'orent­

Wednesday deadline !'or Democratic "If the secretary ofstate arbi­
Democrats requested would go forward, Supreme Court ly depending onstrongholds to justify more counting. 
though only Palm Beach County was would hear the case. trarily refuses to accept the where they live. A
A state judge ruled Tuesday that the 

scheduled tu keep reviewing ballots The court has seven amended returns... then we will ruling from the 
state should collect returns from all 67 Wednesday morning. members, all chosen 11th U.S. Circuit
counties by 5 p.n1., as required under be back in court. " 
Volusia County had completed a full by Democratic gov­Court of Appeals
Florida law. When that deadline passed manual recount; Broward Cuunty was ernors. could also end up
the state said those returns give the 
holding off on a decision about whether A ruling from that David Boies before the U.S.
election -and perhaps the White 
to order a full hand counl; and Miami­court could end up Lawyer for Gore's team Supreme Court.
Ilouse -to Republican Gov. George W. 
Dade voted 2-1 Tuesday night against a before the U.S. 13ush spokes-Bush of Texas by 300 votes, pending an full manual count after a hand count of Supreme Court. woman Karenunspecified number of absentee ballots three precincts awarded Gore a net gain Palm Beach County appealed to the Hughes said the Texas governor is astill to be tallied by Priday night. 
of six votes. state Supreme Court seeking clarifica• three-time winner in Florida, countingDemocrats said the ruling gives them The Democratic Party filed a motion in tion of conl1icting legal guidance on Hs the Nov. 7 election, an automatic new legal options because Circuit Judge state court arguing that Rroward should recount. recount done last week and the totals
Terry Lewis said in his decision that 
be ordered to conduct a full hand count Numerous voters have sued over certified by Ilarris on Tuesday.
counties still recounting ballots by hand of its 588.000 ballots. The motion said alleged voting irregularities in Palm In West Palm Beach, a judge consid­at the request of Democrat Al Gore cam­the cou·nty's decision not to conduct Beach. Celebrity lawyer Alan ered the lawsuits of voters seeking apaign's may be ahh~ to make a case for such a recount was based on an erro­Vershowitz represents some of them. new vote in their county. The votersfiling those totals lale. 
neous opinion by Har_ris, who said a Lawyers for the Palm Beach elections argue the punch-card ballots they wereIf Secretarv of State Katherine Harris, manual recount could only be conducted board said that without clear guidance given on Elect.ion Day may have con­a Republican who campaigned for Bush, if county officials found a problem with from the state high court, the board will fused them enough to mistakenly voterejects those requests, Democrats could the election computer. face more lawsuits. "the state and feder­for Reform Party candidate Pat sue. 
Democrats hope those recounts by al courts of florida will be inundated Buchanan when they intended to vote
Harris said she wants to hear the 

human eye and hand will turn up addi-with further litigation, the outcome of for Gore. 
Bush holds narrow lead in vote 
~j' :JPA~~E;fa;i,
":X""FAAVASAN. 
<' fEA~_URIN,G THE 
,, -BONAKHQNA D 
r· · 12· so-,,,11ct' t'})Efi,,.Tv·
< -' .·_ -~-~-!. ':~ ' , -. ·_--. 
. -1 ~.-. '. • .·.---

Erom Durban/.S0l::JTH
...... -,'-'·-··_._ ,;;,!·..;(.~·--.r . 
. ,t:;·~~ 
-:~·i.,-t_:~-1'~\ 
1'-:.~ :· 
~:j: 

'.;t, 
-j1_-~ 
jti~t/".· 
·:~tG:,;{~L'~~~~'.~'.F;~zf~ 

Associated Press 
After a week of suspense, a fistful of lawsuits and thousands of ballots counted, counted again, then recounted by hand, George W. Bush clings to a ten­uous 300-vote lead over Al Gore in Florida's decisive presiden­tial election. But the outcome remains uncertain in a struggle still careening through the courts and open to additional canvassing. 
"This is a pretty intense process," Florida Gov. Jeb Bush said Tuesday, his state at the center of a post-election battle unlike any other. "I hope this will be resolved." 
On that -and that alone, it seemed -there was no dis­pute. 
Of the counties where the Gore campaign has sought com­plete hand recounts, officials in Volusia County had completed them as of Tuesday night; Democratic party officials said they went to court seeking to force a recount in Broward County; and Miami-Dade voted Tuesday night not to honor the request, although officials said the Gore campaign hoped to overturn that refusal, as well. 
Palm Beach County officials stood ready to launch a full manual recount Wednesday morning. 
The politics were intense, the legal maneuvering no less so, since the winner of Florida stands lo gain an Electoral College majority and take the 
oath of office Jan. 20  as  the  
nation's 43rd president.  
The  current White  House  

· occupant, President Clinton. assured a gathering of Pacific Rim leaders in Brunei that the United States was not shaken by the election impasse. 
"The world can rest easy," Clinton said early Wednesday. 
ln a fast-paced series of developments Tuesday, Florida Secretary of State Katherine Harris announced that Bush, the GOP presidential candidate, officially held a lead of 300 votes over the vice president out of about 6 million cast, accord­ing to totals submitted by all 6 7 counties in response to her 5 
p.m. deadline. 
An unknown number of absentee ballots remained to be counted by Friday midnight, Harris said. 
2000-0 I Season Notre Dame Film.Television, and Theatre Presents 

· 

by Eric Bogosian, William Finn, John Guare, . Tony Kushner, Marsha Norman, Ntozake Shange, Wendy Wasserstein 
DIRECTED BY SIIRI SCOTT 
--~-­

Some themes and 
language in this play 
may be offensive to some viewers. 
PLAYING AT WEONESOltlY, NOVEMBER 15 7:30 PM WASHINGTON HALL THU~MY, NOVEMBER 16 7:30PM RESERVED SEATS $9. FIU0A.Y, NOVEMBER 17 7:30 PM SENIOR cmZENS $8. SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 18 7:30PM SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 19 2:30 PM
ALL STUDENTS $6. 
TlO<ETS ARE AV>Jl.>JU AT THE DOOR OR. IN ADVANCE AT I.AFOlmJNE STUDENT CENTER. 
M...sTEllCMO AND VISA ORDERS CAl.1. 631-8128. 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
l'.0. !lox Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 oH South Dining H,11. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDll'OR IN CHiff Mike Con11olly 
MANAGING EmroR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lan" 
ASST, MANAGING EUITOR OPERATIONS MAN/\GF.R Chrisrinc Kraly Brian Kessler 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattrngly VllV?l'OINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS Em l'OR: Kerry Srnich SCENE EurroR: Amanda Gr~co S/\JNT MARY'S EmroR, Molly McVoy PHOTO Enrro11: Elizabeth Lang 
Al>VF.RTISING MAN/\GER, Par Peters Au Of.SIGN M/\N/\CER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS AllMl~lSTRATOII: Mike Gunville WEIi ADMINl~Tll/\TOR: Ad.1m T urncr CoNTROl.l.ER: Buh Woods GRAPHICS Eurrn11, Jose Cuellar 
CoNTACT Us 
OrFICE M/\N/\GERiGENERAJ. INFO ...........631-7471 
FAX.............................................................631-6927 
ADVERTISING....................................63 l-6900/8840 
observa<l@n<l.edu ElllTllR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MAN/\GING [I>ITORIAsST. ME.... ...............631-4541 8USINF.SS OfFICE.....................................631-5313 NEWS.................................. , . , ................. 631-5323 
o6scrver.obsnews.1@nd.edu V1Ewro1NT. ................................................ 63 l-5303 obscrver.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS.......................................................63 1-4543 
observer.sports. J@nd.edu SCENE.............. ............................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARy's ...........................................631-4324 
obscrver.smc.J@nd.edu 
PHOTO........................................................ ~31-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .. .............631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visir our Web sire ,u hup:llobun,er.nd.ed11 for daily t1pdatts ofcunpus new,, spores, teacures and opinion columns, as wdl as c.moons, revic,ws an<l breaking m,ws from the Associated !'rt"Ss. 
SURF TO: 

----------------------------------------------------------. 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


DILBERT 

WE. HAVE. A. GIGANTIC DATABASE FULL OF CUSTOMER BEHAVIOR INFORMATION. 
E 
0 
0
.. u 
@) 
"
E
..
.,,
.. 
= 
0 
~ 
E 
0 
() 
t:: 
<I> 
.ll 
"O 
~ ~ ~ 

I would have loved to have written this· column back in October on National Coming Out Day or even last week during our week of learning tol­erance. but there were reasons for my delay. My mother 
Marlayna
was just here for 
the Boston College Soenneker 
game. and I didn't 
want to write this 
Here We Go
until she had come 
Again
and gone. You see, 
it's about my 
mother that I want 
to write. Mv mother is a lesbian and I 
want to talk about that today. 
You arc probably wondering why l want to talk about this in such a pub­lic forum. To explain this, I need to tell you more about myself and my experiences thus far in life. 
My mother discovered that she was a lesbian when I was ten and subse­quently left my father, whom I lived with afterward. I didn't actually know why she left until about a year later. It was never really a big deal to me. I loved my mother, and it didn't matter to me what gender the people she loved were. 
But I wasn't stupid and I did know thal in my small town. other people would not be nearly so accepting. So I kept my mouth shut about it for another year or two. Then I started to slowly tell my closest friends. I'll say right now that l have never, in all of · the last eight years, had anyone react badly to my telling them my mother is lesbian. Never. Of course, until now, I've never broadcast the fact in a pub­lic forum. but I find the reception I've gotten thus far in life very hopeful. 
Anyway. 1slowly began to bring this fact into my public life. I gave a 
speech in my sophomore speech class 
about gay rights. I was proud of 
myself. I was also heckled by an 
extremely annoying guy. (Needless to 
say, not someone I've mentioned my 
mother's preference to.) By the end of' 
my sophomore year, all my close 
friends knew. 
Then, at the very end of my sopho­more year, two friends and I decided to throw a big old party at the beach. I asked my mother to chaperone, and she agreed. But she thought I meant both her and Barb. her partner, when l just meant her. So they both showed up to pick me up for the party. 
I asked my mom why Barb was there and she covered quickly and told me that she was just taking us to the beach and would leave then. I said that was good, because I didn't know how I would explain her. Barb heard that and it really hurt her feelings, as I found out later. I've felt bad about that for years. But she's a loving woman, and has never held it against me. 
So I wasn't ready to tell everyone I knew just yet. As I got older, I was pretty much ready to tclf anyone I liked. When I went to college, I decid­ed that it was time to be open about it. to say something when it seemed relevant. And I have. I've told more people around here than I ever did al home. 
My life, since I was ten years old, has been a long coming out of the closet. When we hear that phrase, "coming out of the closet," we normal­ly only think o!' gay or lesbian people themselves. Most people never realize that tlrn friends and family of gays and 

EXCELLENT. WE CA.N USE NON-LINEAR l"\ATH AND DATA MINING TECHNOLOGY TO OPTIMIZE OUR RETAIL CHANNELS! 

) 
SCOTT ADAMS 


IF THA.T'$ THE SAME THING AS SPAM, WE'RE HAVING A GOOD MEETING HERE. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"All you need in this life is ignorance and confidence; then success is sure." 
Mark Twain author 

. 
C 
~ 
.!! 
~
.. ~ 
•• ~ 
u. 
Wednesday, November 15, 2000 
lesbians are often also for:ccd into 
closets rrom rear or "what otlwrs will 
say." For nw. it was never a question 
of me accepting my mother or Harb. 
But I had to learn to say to hell with 
the people who can ·1 a~ccpt them and 
learn to say that if you can't accupt 
them, you can't accept me. 
So I am writing this now because it is time. I am ready to stand my ground, to say in black and white so everyone can see it. that my mother is lesbian, and that I love lwr and I lovl' her partner. It's time for nw stop hid­ing in any way. It's timP ror me to realize that I don't have to •·explain" Barb. l just have to tell people that she's my mom's part,wr and a part of my family. In some ways. I'm writing this to make up for a mistakri I madl' four years ago, when I couldn·t do that. 
This is a rite or passage. It is a moment of truth and mavbe it is a crucible for me as well. i am putting my heart in your hands and I am trusting you. I woke up this morning. I guarantee you. with bultl~rf'lies in my stomach. I don't know how people will react to this. I don't know what you will say. 
But f believe in this place and llw people here, enough to believe that it will all be okay. And. in the end, I believe in Christ. It was lw who said that the truth shall make us free. 
Marlayna Soenneker is a sophomore psychology major. lier column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces• sarily those of The Obseroer. 
weather for up-ro-rhc rninute forecast!i 
advertise for policies and rates ofprint ads 
archivcs ru search for articles published after Augusr l99'> movies/m115ic for weekly student reviews 
online features for spc,­cial campus covemge 
about The Observer 
to meet the editors and staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily nc,wspaper published in print an<l onhne by the students of rhe University uf Norre Dame du Lie and Saint Mary·s College. Edimrial conr«u, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advcrrisemems based on comenr. 
The news is reported as accurately and objeccivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of 1hc majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant M.maging Editor and department editors. Cummcmarie.s, leners and columns present the views of rhe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lecrers is encouraged. Lcrrcrs ro rhc Edi1or musr be signed and must include contact inform~uion 
()_"euir,m rrgardi,,g Ob,rrver polici,s ,ho11ld /,, dir,ct­,d to Edi1or i11 Chief'Mi!,, Comwl(y. 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, November 15, 2000 
page 11 
Breaking out of 
the bubble 

We painted walls in a school, put up ceiling tiles, shadowed students and picked trash from one of the many illegal hillside trash dumps. Knee deep in filth, wading through the dirt, garbage, bones, dog carcasses and syringes, we worked with dozens of other college and local students and left David. 
Kentucky, the site "of our Appalachia Seminar experience, with the understand­ing of what service to and by many people can a\.:comµlish. Communities can achieve greatness if willing people communicate, work hard and have a vision, 
Lined up in a row of 12 with a bag of seeds tucked under our arm, we began the laborious process of planting two to three 
Drew Olejnick 
For a More Just and Humane World 

I got my first look at East Timur through the plane window while holding the hand of the girl sitting next to me, (Terrified of flying, she braved the trip to visit her mother who worked for the united Nations.) The mountain peaks of the half-island formerly part of Indonesia jutted through the clouds, 
After 25 years of Indonesian occupation ­full of deprivation and torture -East Timor was granted independence in an August 1999 referendum. But the Indonesian military and pro-integration militia did not leave without destroying virtually the entire country, 
Walking through the streets of the capital city Dili, you see building after building burnt out or demolished. People would point out where once had been a school, a business, their home. There is no social infrastructure; currently the unemployment rate is 80 percent. In rural vil­lages, people starve since crops cannot be planted because seeds and ox were carried away to Indonesian West Timor. (Many Timorese were pushed there as well and still remain captive refugees.) Timorese living today have faced great hardship all their lives. 
Perhaps the first (and only) time Americans heard of East Timor was when a U.N. peace­keeping force was finally sent to stop the destruction. Since then, East Timor has again become obscure to Americans -disturbing especially since in other nations like Australia it is a prominent issue. 
But Timor is on the other side of the world, and media cameras turned their attention to Kosovo and now Israel. They have "unmade" the struggle in Timor, but in real life it contin­ues. 
I worked for the U.N., teaching English to their local stuff. On one occasion, we climbed into a U .N. helicopter and headed for Suai, a rural border district. Militia still threaten the stability of the peace process, as we were reminded upon touching down. Be cautious. Don't leave town. A New Zealand peacekeeper was killed yesterday in a border confrontation. During our stay, conversations were often interrupted by the loud rumble of tanks passing to and from the border. 
We came to survey the educational needs of the area. One school operated, thanks to about 30 volunteers. One teacher I met, Rogerio, taught high school biology -from what he remembers; there are no more books. A univer­sity student himself, Rogerio longed for the opportunity to return to school and again be challenged. If he did not teach, his only other option was household chores. As one friend from Suai recently wrote to me, while indepen­dence from Indonesia was the first resistance, the struggle against educational poverty is the second. 
Another university student, Ajiza Magno. was forced to put off her education, making remarkable contributions in the meantime. Magno helped organize the women's national congress and even represented Timor labor issues to the U.N. in Geneva. Now she is travel­ing across the U.S., making people aware of her country's struggle. Come to the Hunger Banquet tonight {or Pangborn afterwards). lis­ten to her speak and the struggle will no longer go on silently. 
Dawn Lardner 
senior 
Welsh Family Hall Nov. 14, 2000 

Larger facilities needed 
I was more than a little disappointed in the University in their handling of the Tim Russert talk. It is not often that the students get to hear someone of his stature speak on our campus. 
What does the University do? I don't know the exact number, but it looked like they packed about 150 people in the auditorium at McKcnna, while a number that size was left outside. 
Those remaining either had to stand in the hallway or leave. To the organizers: Next time you get a high-profile person to talk, try to get a bigger auditorium. 
Aaron Murray gradiute student off-campus Nov. 14, 2000 


seeds every small step in the tilled fields. Droplets of sweat poured down our faces under the 95-degree heat. The plants that were to grow from our work would prevent further erosion of the surrounding land. Twelve Notre Dame students on the Mexico Seminar discovered how demanding life is for many other people throughout the world. 
Sitting around a large circular table in a cold, damp church, the ND/SMC participants of our Chicago Urban Plunge, con­versed with two gang members from the local neighborhoods. Although the two young men left at 10 p.m., most ofthe group stayed awake until well after 2 a.m., discussing and debating critical social questions and issues spurred by the dialogue that night. Away l'rom the classroom-based learning, we breached real life subjects and formed opinions on how to improve our country. 
The experiential learning opportunities offered through the Center for Social Concerns arc an essential part of the educa­tional experience. For my first three years, 1was involved with various opportunities as a participant, drinking the nectar of knowledge. But this year. as a seminar coordinator, I saw others expanding their minds and broadening their life experiences to become more concerned, professional and analytical students. 
On the Washington D.C. Seminar, participants met with vari­ous government, non-government and religious organizations during the day to discuss international humanitarian issues. The topics included sweatshops, third world development, refugees, human rights accountability and the Catholic Church's role in global issues. In the afternoons, they explored the city: Arlington National Cemetery, the Smithsonian Museums, Congress and much more. In the evenings, they familiarized themselves with the different neighborhoods of Washington including Georgetown, Union Station, Adams Morgan and Dupont Circle, 
Now. more globally aware, politically conscious and familiar with the city of Washington D.C., the participants returned from a week outside of the bubble of Notre Dame, And, they had grown in ways that could not be measured by paper and pencil. 
Experiential learning opportunities help students connect classroom-based learning to real world problems and occur­rences. Through the Center for Social Concerns. students have the opportunity to meet the outside world during the academic school year or over their breaks. Whether it be as a summer service project, spring or fall break seminar or a study abroad experience, no Notre Dame student should graduate without participating in one of these formative experiences. 
Notre Dame is a great place for a college education, but it could become an even better place if everyone were to bring back and share the experiences which occur away from campus. We should sit down with a friend who spent a semester "around the world" or "down-under" and find out what the people are like in another part of our global community, what is unique about another culture's way of life, what his favorite part of the experience was. You may be surprised to find that there exists ways of life that are more appealing than the American way. 
I acknowledge that spring breaks on a cruise, summer jobs on the Jersey shore and skiing in the Rockies are incredibly fun and relaxing experiences. Our breaks arc meant for that -to recharge our batteries. But ask almost anyone who has partic­ipated in at least one of these experiential learning seminar opportunities and you will likely hear how enriching the experi­ence was. 
The seminars are fun. You learn about new and exciting top­ics, meet other great Notre Dame and Saint Mary's studenL,; and experience something completely difforent and novel to your daily lives at Notre Dame. Try one. It may be one of the most rewarding experiences of your time at Notre Dame. What do you have to lose? The beaches and mountains will still be there after you graduate. But these opportunities may not. 
The CSC column. "For a More Just and Humane World" is a hi-weekly column in The Observer. Drew Olejnik is a senior gov­ernment and economics major with a concentration in peace studies. Orew developed and organized this year's Washington 
D.C. Seminar. 
11ie views expressed here are those ofthe autlwr and not nec­essarily those of 1he Observer. 
--~~­
T E L 
een 
I 0 N 
Wednesday, Nov(;:mber 15, 2000
page 12 

Cutthroat ratings weed out the weak, support the stron~ 
ABC relies on big-name movie stars, Regis scharisma to rake in millions 

"Sabrina the Teenage Witch." 
"The Geena Davis Show" seems to have a better chance of surviving its first season. The show chronicles Davis' comedic escapades as a single New York woman adjusting to life in the sub­urbs with her new husband and step-children. 
"The Geena Davis Show" premiered at 14 in the Nielsen ratings -the highest ol' all major network pre­mieres this season. Though it has since slipped out of the Nielsen top 30. 'The Geena Davis Show" is definitely ABC's strongest addition to the fall line-up. 
In ABC's third premiere of' the season. Academv Award nominee Paul Attansaio ("Donnie Brasco") makes his television debut in "Gideon's Crossing." The hour-long drama centered in a Boston 
Michael J. teaching hospital has not shaken the position of NBC's "EH" as the top medical drama on the air waves. However, its premiere in Nielsen's 19th 

The cast of ABC's "Spin City" rally behind actor Charlie Sheen ( center) as Fox's replacement in the popular primetime comedy. 
By KATIE MALMQUIST 
Scene Wrirer 
Tired of hearing Regis ask "Is that your final answer?" Apparently the executives at the American Broadcasting Company are not. 
Originally adding an extra night of "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire" to their primetime line up (bringing the game show's appearance to four hour-long air­ings a w,iek) and premiering only three new series. ABC opened this season confi­dent that Regis and his 11ashy suits would carry them through the fall ratings. 
Within the first month of the season, however. "Millionaire" suffered a signifi­cant drop in ratings. hinting that viewers arc growing increasingly tired of the game show phenomenon. So does ABC have any life lines left in its fall line up? A recap of the network's latest attractions. and returning favorites should save you the call to a friend to find out. 
Surprisingly, ABC's most interesting hook this season is its inl1ux of stars mak­ing the leap from the silver screen to the TV screen. Two of these brave faces appear in brand new series -Gabriel Byrne ("The Usual Suspects") in "Madigan Men" and Geena Davis in the not-so-cre­atively titled "The Geena Davis Show." 

Byrne stars as the father in an inter­generational trio.of grandfather, father, 
and son. "Madigan Men" follows the trials spot set it above ABC's last newcomer, of the three Irish men as they venture "The Trouble with Normal," which was through three very different dating cancelled after only three episodes. worlds. Also making his television debul on ABC 
The comedy, airing Friday at 9:30 p.m .. this fall is actor Charlie Sheen, who was not ABC's best replaced Michael J. received premiere. 
Fox on the half-hour 

Premiering Nielsen's 63rd slot and slipping ever since, "Madigan Men" shows 1 i t t I e promise of reviving 
A B C ' s 
declining TGIF series which· has continued to lose viewers since last season's cancellation of teen favorites "Boy Meets World" and 


sitcom "Spin City." After Fox's 

in PRIMETIME SCHEDULE 
ABC: Nov. 15-Nov. 21 
emotional 
Wed: 

8 -Millionaire 9 -The Drew Carey Show 
9:30 -Spin City 10 -Gideon's Crossing 
Thurs: 

8 -Whose Line is it Anyway? 9 -Millionaire 1 O -Primetime Thursday 
Fri: 

8 -The Beatles Revolution 10 -20/20 
Sat: 

8 -College Football 
last episode
Sun: 
in the spring 
7 -The Wonderful 
season finale, the actor has 
World of Disney pre­
sents "Santa Who?" 
remained
9 -Millionaire 
with the 1 O -The Practice 
projecl, 
Mon: 
working behind the scenes as 
8 -20/20 Downtown 
9 -NFL Monday Night 
executive
Football 
producer of 
Tues: 
the show. 
Though Sheen was 
8 -Millionaire 
9 -Dharma & Greg 
generally
9:30 -The Geena Davis w e 1 1Show 
received by 1o -Once and Agafn 
the show's 
loyal view­
11 -Dateline NBC 
ers, "Spin City" has promised various cameo appearances by Fox throughout the season. 
Many of ABC's returning series also look strong, especially David E. Kelley's "The Practice," which has held steady in the eighth and ninth ratings positions all season. Sela Ward and Billy Campbell return for a second season of "Once and Again," which opened to rave reviews last fall, but has since dropped out of lhe Nielsen top 30. 
"The Drew C a r e y Show" is back for its fifth hilari­ous season and Norm MacDonald returns for his second ~-,, year of . "Norm " . Sitcoms like · "Two Guys and a Girl" and "Dharma & Greg" also continue to draw viewers. 
Ultimately, ABC's biggest blow this season is the tem­porary hiatus ol' '"NYPD Blue," whose 19 Emmy Awards have brought strong ratings for the past seven seasons. 
While ABC promises that the hour-long police drama will return this January for its eighth season. it's clear that the network's overall ratings have felt its absence since the new season opened. 
This fall, net­work executives and viewers alike arc left wondering if "Millionaire" will be able to pick up the slack. 
With ABC's fresh faces, new series and old favorites, Hegis should .have some help, but tun­ing in is the only way to be sure. 

Nothing to do? No excuse for boredom in South Bend 
Because of the Finnegan's bust and the pending end of the home football season, students have already begun to complain that there's nothing to do around here. I have one piece of advice for you pessimists: Get over it. 
You're in college. If you can't find ways to amuse yourself now. think what you'll end up doing in ten years. You'll be sit­ting around. watching infomer­cials. wondering what happened to your youth. 
There are a million things to do at Notre Dame both on and off campus. If you're the magical age of 21, your possibilities are limitless. Since most of us aren't, we have to be a bit more imaginative. 

if you've got access lo a car (or are confident enough to brave the South Bend bus system). see a movie. Go bowling. Forget the dining halls for an 

evening and try one of the million chain restaurants on Grape road. 
Out of money? Flex yourself a meal and get cre­ative with the hotpot. Put your VCR to use and watch a movie with your roommate/friends/signifi­cant other. 
Still looking for some fun? You may have out­grown the freshman dorm parties, but if you're really looking to recreate a Boat Club-esque atmos­phere, here's an idea. Overcrowd your room, spill things on the floor to make it sticky, purchase cheap refreshments, play the latest top-40 music, invite a few locals over and see what develops. You may be surprised. 
Get creative. You know, way back in the dark ages. there was a man who found hours of amuse­ment flipping plastic cups up on a table for sport. That sure caught on, and these days the game can provide a night's worth of entertainment and allow participants to develop great hand eye coordination all in one. Who knew that such a simple game would be so much fun? It's that easy. 
Still searching? Notre Dame offers a multitude of 
options for every crowd. Maybe take in a lecture 
from a visiting professor and make yourself smarter. Even if you don't learn anything. you can still brag to your friends that you did. The SUB 
movies aren't half-bad either. 
Visit friends in other dorms -even if it's cold out and they live on (gasp!) another quad. Or maybe you could get to know your roommate better. You'd be surprised of all the things you might learn. 
If all else fails, catch up on your sleep. Lord knows you need it. 
Once again, you're in college. Make the most of it. Complaining that there's noLhiug to do here on the weekends is like saying that polyester is going to come back into style or that the bookstore is going to charge a reasonable amount for books next semester. It just isn't true. So get out there, be cre­ative and have a good weekend. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


T E L I 0 N 

Wednesday, November 15, 2000 page 13 
on fall line-up from competitors NBC, ABC and the WB 
'Buffy's' high kicks, 'Dawson s' love triangle bring faithful following to WB 
the cameras aren't rolling. Johnny Lane felt, multi-generational
By JACQUELINE BROWDER 
(Al Santos), who plays handsome hero drama about friend­
Assistant Scene Editor 
Brad, is a womanizer who's lucky to be ship. family and the able to read his lines much less be a ties that bind. 
Although Warner Brothers isn't one of superstar. Thirty-two-year-old the few fuzzy channels that gets recep­Courtney Bennet (Bonnie Somerville) Lorelai Gilmore tion at Notre Dame. you're still likely to is a "serious" Broadway actress who (Lauren Graham) has find dozens of girls in the 24-hour turns up her nose at TV, but is too made her share of mis­lou11ge watching their broke to turn down the money. Hunter takes in life, and she's favorite W8 melodrama Fallow (Irene Molloy) is the series' doing her best to see several times a week. reigning vixen who sees Courtney's that her 16-year-old Whether it's the cleavage as a threat to her star power. daughter Rory (Alexis cult hit "Buffy tho Rounding out the cast is Marcy Bledcl) doesn't follow 
Vampire Slayer," "Network Connection" Sternfeld in her footsteps. the new series (Lindsay Sloane). the Tori Spelling­Because of their "Gilmore esque character. Shot in a realistic, sin­extraordinary friend­
Girls" or the gle-camera style, new series "Grosse ship and some pretty highly artic­Pointe" follows the escapades of young good genes, the two u I a t e , actors whose lives are as shallow and are often mistaken for moody ado­entertaining on and off-camera. sisters. rrom the lescents on beginning, this uni4ue
"Buffy the Vampire Slayer" and
"Dawson's mother-daughter team Creek," the "Angel" has been growing up show tlrnt "Buffy the Vampire Slayer," now in its together. started it fifth season, is still following its curva­A sort-of dysfunc­all, the WB ceous, vampire-butt-kicking heroine as tional "7th Heaven," has moved "Gilmore Girls" is
she confronts the evils of the under­world while trying to lead a normal col­
itself into intended to add to the mainstream lege life on the side. 
offerings of compelling primetime TV. Buffy struggles with the transition ­
family programming on network televi­third season, and has gone back to the This fall, the from high school to college, as well as sion. formulas that works best teenage
-

WB's lineup includes losing the love of her life (to a spin-off The writing is strong and often love and angst. some impressive debuts, series, no less). humorous, and although the show faces In the title role, teenage heartthrob 
as well as a few This series explores the twists and tough competition from NBC's Thursday James Van Der Beek is caught in the Photo courtesy of abc.go.com staples from sea­turns of adulthood with the same irony line-up. the show has been an impor­middle of a budding romance between Philbin hosts ABC's sons past. and wit used in years past. With a tant favorite thus far. his two best friends, Joey and Pacey 
·o Be A Millionaire?" Here's a look at strong supporting cast and surprising (Katie Holmes and Joshua Jackson).
"Popular"

a few of the sea­plot twists, "Buffy" remains one of the This problematic love triangle is theIn its debut season, "Popular" intro­
son's highest rated WB's top rated shows. core of the season's plotline, and most
duced us to Sam (Carly Pope) andand most talked about shows. The popular spin-off series "Angel" 

likely won't be resolved until the seasonBrooke (Leslie Bibb) -polar opposites

chronicles the lives of "Buffy" alums 
finale.

"Grosse Pointe" who are forced into sisterhood when
Angel (David Boreanaz). Cordelia Chase
What do you get when you cross their single parents make a love con­
(Charisma Carpenter) and Wesley
"Beverly Hills nection. 
PRIMETIME SCHEDULE 

Wyndam-Pryce (Alexis DenisoO. 
90210" and "The Loaded with scathing humor, social
The series follows Angel and company 
WB: Nov. 15-Nov. 21
Real World"? 
angst, and pop culture references,through the streets of Los Angeles,

The WB's "Grosse "Popular" instantly became one of the
where they battle evil and confront
Pointe," an amusing WB's more original and comical looks
countless temptations lurking beneath 
Wed: Dawson's Creek, Felicity 

look behind the at high school. 
the city's glittery fai.;ade. 
scenes of one of TV's With a unique sensitivity to contem­
Thurs: Gilmore Girls, Charmed

Buffy and Angel air back-to-back, and
hottest hits: the ficti­porary issues and some of the most
frequently feature interconnecting 
Fri: Sabrina the Teenage Witch, 

tious primetime soap entertaining supporting characters on
plots, allowing the title characters to
"Grosse Pointe." the network, "Popular" resumes its 
Popular

continue their tortured love affair and
The onscreen blend of sharp comedy and drama as it
keep ratings strong for both shows. 
Mon: 7th Heaven, Roswell

melodrama of infi­launches into its second season. 
delity, pregnancy, "Gilmore Girls" 
Tues: Buffy, Angel 
"Dawson's Creek"

and occasional bouts Set in a storybook Connecticut town 
Easily the most popular and well­of amnesia is noth­populated with an eclectic mix of known show the WB has produced, 

(all shows run an hour each, 

ing compared to dreamers, artists and everyday folk, the Dawson's Creek has come off of a rockywhat happens when new series "Gilmore Girls" is a heart-
from 8-10 p.m.) 

Favorites of 'Must-See-TV' battle failures to boost NBC's ratings 
,C for another season. 
signs of slowing down. NBC's strongest new show is its dramedy "Ed," airing
By MATT KILLEN 
Neither does a former Thursday night show, on Sundays. Thomas Cavanaugh plays the title charac­
Scene Writer 
"Frasier." Now on Tuesday nights, "Frasier" shows ter, a lawyer who also owns a bowling alley. This is a signs of returning to the wit and quirky humor of its great comedy from David Letterman's Worldwide After last year's ratings loss to "Who Wants to be a 
heyday -a big improvement from the lackluster past Pants Inc. Millionaire," NBC's Thursday night "Must Sec TV" is 
seasons. Along with "Frasier" on Tuesdays is "3rd "Ed" has a great blend of comedy and dramatic ele­again at the top of the Nielsen ratings. With the excep­
Rock from the Sun," a once-mediocre sitcom that ments. This light touch is not only entertaining but also tion of Thursday and Wednesday shows, however, the should have been cancelled last year. an excellent example of how both comedy and drama rest of the week seems to follow a bumpy ruad in the 
Joining these two shows on Tuesdays are "The can be mixed together successfully. way ofviewership. 
Michael Richards Show" and "DAG." "DAG" premieres NBC's other freshman drama that's still on the air is 
The tent pole for Thursday is still "Friends" and 

Nov. 14, but Michael Hichards' new show has been on the Aaron Spelling soap opera "Titans," starring"ER." While both of these shows remain strong and 
for a few weeks. The former Kramer on "Seinfeld" Yasmine Bleeth and Casper Van Dien. This show is 
entertaining, they both suffer from a similar problem stars as a wa1:ky detective, but his goofy character nothing more than a soap opera with a big budget. If 
-the number of original cast members. "Friends" 
comes crashing down here. NBC had any brains at all, they would bring "Deadline" needs to drop the Geller siblings. Both Courtney Cox 
Richards is too much like Kramer, and this simply back and replace it with "Titans" with the Wednesdayand David Schwimmer are drags on an otherwise 
doesn't work without Elaine. George. and Jerry. The timeslot. funny show. 
supporting characters he does work with, however, are Instead "Titans" is the lucky reaper of the benefits of Meanwhile, "ER" suffers from the opposite problem 
one-dimensional and have no comedic abilities of their having the lead-in slot to "The West Wing." This -a lack of its original cast. The newer members are 
own. Presidential drama has started its season with a suc­
obnoxious and bothersome, while the few remaining NBC's other new sitcom "Tucker" has been can­cession of brilliant episodes, proving that its Emmy win originals are stuck with little to work with. 
celled, along with "Daddio," -and ratings show nei­was well-deserved. Thursday night also brings in one of NBC's new sit­ther will be missed. NBC has also cancelled "Deadline," "Law & Order" has been surprisingly sluggish this 
coms -a show called "Cursed." This show is going the 
the Oliver Platt drama about a newspaper columnist. year, but storylines are picking up. Along with "The way of "The Single Guy" and "Veronica's Closet" very While this show showed potential, Deadline played West Wing," this NBC favorite continues to be among soon. so those "Wings" fans (all three of you) should 
after "Daddio" and "Tucker" on Mondays. This proved the best dramas on television. enjoy the Steven Weber fix while you 1:an. 
fatal, as all were summarily beaten by "Monday Night Thursday does host the peacock's two strongest sit­
Football," CBS's lineup of comedies, and FOX's "Boston The views expressed in this article are those ofthe 
coms: "Will & Grace" and "Just Shoot Me." Both of 
Public" and "Ally McBeal." Thus, NBC's Monday lineup author and not necessarily those of The Observer. these shows are extremely funny and neither shows 
is currently in a state of flux. 
J 



Wednesday, November 15, 2000

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NFL 

Burress benched for inconsistent play 
As,ociatcd Press 
PITISBUHGII 
Plaxico Burress. a $9 million wide receiver in his first sea• son with the Steelers. was benched Tuesday by head coach Hill Cowher, 
Burress. the eighth pick in the April draft, has largely disappeared from the offense in recent weeks, making only four catches fur 45 yards in their last four games. 
"The play "But, right now. we need 

y e a r ,
has just been 

consistent play, people Edwards tied 
too inconsis­

with Ward
tent," Cowher being where they need to 

!'or the team 
said Tuesday. be and doing it on a con­
lead with 61 
Hurress left 

sistent basis. " catches. 
Sunday's 26­
"I think 
2:; overtime 
[Burress] is
Bill Cowher

loss · to 
going to be a 
Philadelphia Steelers head coach 

after being hit hard by line­backer Jeremiah Trotter on a throw over the middle. Courtney Hawkins. a former Michigan State receiver like Burress, came in and made a team-high four catches for 71 yards after making only one reception previously this sea­son. 
llawkins, the only Steelers receiver left from quarterback Kord<dl Stewart's standout seai;on of 1997, will start Sunday. He survived the final roster cut in August only when the Steelers waived fourth­round draft pick Danny Farmer. Now, he and Ilines Ward are the starting receivers. 
"He is a guy who had to come in and accept a {backup] role he didn't particularly like, but he accepted it as a true professional," Cowher said. "lie went about his business and worked very hard and when he had an opportunity, 
he came in and performed." 
The move means the Steelers now have two of the NFL's highest-paid backup receivers. Their last two first­round draft picks, Burress and Troy Edwards, have lost their starting jobs since the season began. 
Between them. Burress and Edwards have only 37 catches -none for touchdowns -and have drawn criticism for not running precise routes and dropping passes. Last 
good player, 
just like I think Troy is going to be a good player," Cowher said. "But, right now, we need con­sis tent play, people being where they need to be and doing it on a consistent basis. 
"I think it will be good for Plax and I think he will respond in a positive manner. At the same time, Courtney came in and there's no doubt he made some plays and he gave us a spark there, and you can't overlook that." 
Cowher weighed whether it was better to leave Burress in the lineup and allow him to play his way through his mis­takes. 
"That's a fine line you have to live with," Cowher said. "At this time, I'm making this decision because I feel like it's in the best interest of our team.... But nobody should look at it as I'm taking Plax out of the lineup because he's the reason why we haven't been executing." 
Warner to return to lineup Dec. 3 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 

St. Louis Rams quarterback Kurt Warner began rehab on his r!ght pinkie this week and is expected to return to the lineup Dec. 3 against the Carolina Panthers. 
That means Warner, the NFL's MVP last year. will have missed five games since he broke the finger on his throwing hand taking a snap from a backup center Oct. 22 at Kansas City. The original prognosis was he'd be side­lined 4-to-6 weeks. 
Warner had surgery on Oct. 24 to insert two pins into the finger. He'll be X-rayed on Friday after a week of thera­py. and the pins are due to come out next Tuesday. 
The pins are being taken out a week later than origi­nally scheduled. Doctors decided the best strategy was for Warner to begin therapy with the pins still in. 
"They chose to be a little more aggressive with the physical therapy." coach Mike Martz said. "With what Kurt does. it's important that (the finger) is very straight. 
That has a lot to do with how you throw the ball." 
Warner has completed 68.7 percent of his passes !'or 2,445 yards with 18 touch­downs and 10 interceptions in seven starts. He and back­up Trent Green are 1-2 in passer ratings. 111.6 to 109.0, 
Green threw four touch­down passes and ran l'or a l1fth in Sunday's 38-24 victo­ry over the New York Giants. lie has completed 6].6 µer• cent of his passes for l 2 touchdowns with three inter­ceptions. 

WTA TOUR 
Williams sisters upset with WTA 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

Venus and Serena Williams have brought excitement and "a ton of money" to women's tennis, and the family deserves more of the WT!\ Tour's windfall, t h e i r father said Tuesday. 
"Venus a n d Serena arc not shar­ing in the revenues packages that the WTA is collecting because of them," Richard Williams said. "It's very unfair, and something should be done. I should share in that package too." 
Williams' remarks came in the wake of complaints last week by Tiger Woods about marketing rights. Woods 

didn't rule out leaving the PGA Tour if the issue isn't resolved. 
Speaking from Palm Beach Gardens, where the family lives, Williams said he wants an equal partnership with the WT!\. If the issue isn't addressed soon. he said, his daughters might skip tourna­ments they would otherwise play. 
"They might du a slowdown here and there," he said. As it is. the sisters rarely play in the same events. 
The impact the Williams sisters have made in tennis is comparable to Woods' effect on golf, Richard Williams said. 
"I look at it as being exactly similar in the exposure they bring, the tickets, the money they generate," he said. "Any place Venus and Serena go, they sell out everything, even if they play doubles. No one has been able to sell out a doubles match before." 
Bart McGuire, chief execu­live oflicer of' the WT!\ Tour, responded by saying all play­ers share in the revenue gen­erated by the tour. 
"The WT!\ is a not-for-prof­it organization, with the t Oll r ' S S h a r e O f re Ve 11 ll(' S being used for overall tour operations and the day-to­day running of' the tour," lw said in a statement. Mc(;uirl' said he's always willing to discuss operations with play­ers and their parents. 
The mercurial Williams has been known to make inflam­matory remarks. Last spring he said Venus might retire, 
but  instead  she  won  
Wimbledon, the U.S.  Opt\n  
and  two  Olympic  gold  

medals, teaming with Serena to win the doubles in Sydney. 
Williams said his family, himself included, deserves a share of television and other revenue. He plans to discuss his complaints in the next couple of weeks with McGuire. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p,m, at the Notre Dame ollice, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces, The Observer reserves rhe right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
HOUSE FOR LEASE 7/01 4/5 bedrm. 3 blocks to campus 773-486-8822 
3,4 & 6 BDRM HOMES. FURN. NOW & 2001-02. 272-6306. 
HOUSES FOR RENT 2001-2002 10 BEDROOMS­
4 BATHS 3 KITCHENS 5 BEDROOMS 2 BATHS GREAT FRONT PORCH BOTH HOUSES HAVE WASHERS, DRYERS ANO ALARM SYSTEMS CALL KRAMER 234-2436 OR CELL 274-1501. 
WANTED 
YOUTH DIRECTOR needed At First United Methodist Church in S. Bend. 8-12 hrs./wk. 
$100/wk. 
Call 233-9463. Ask for Dan or Jen. 
EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP­
MENTCENTER 
PAID & VOLUNTEER OPPORTU­
NITIES 
Earn money and build resume experience while interacting with delightful young children. The Early Childhood Development Centers at Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame, are cur­renlly accepting applications from college students for part time employment positions beginning immediately and for next semester. The hours vary, including MWF 
12:30 p.m. -1:30 p.m. and MWF 
9:30 a.m. -11 :30 a.m. If you are interested in applying, please con­tact Kari Alford, Program Director at ECOC-SMC, at 284-4693 or Thayer Kramer, Program Director at ECDC-NO, for more information and an application. 
Retail positions available at UP Mall 20 seasonal sales associates need­ed 
Full & Part time positions available Flexible hrs. for your convenience 
Avg. $7-$18/hour Outgoing personality, sales experi­ence a plus 
340-3761 

LOST & FOUND 
lost: Silver mustard seed necklace. VERY IMPORTANT. If found, call Kate at 634-3697 
FOR SALE 
#1 Spring Break 2001 -Cancun, Mazatlan, Acapulco, Jamaica, 
Florida & S.Padre. Reliable TWA llights. Best Prices. Earn $$$ or FREE trips-call tor details! 
1.800.SURFS.UP WWW, studentex­press.com 
Spring Break 2001 Book group of 
15 and GO FREE! Book before Nov, 3 tor FREE Meafsl Visit us at sunsp!ashtours.com or call for free info@ 1-800-426-7710 
PHONE CARDS S20 1558 MIN. CALL 284-5145 or 258-4805 
'95 Honda Civic EX, red, moonroot, 5 spd. 5211 mi., $8950, call 1-6953 
1993 Ford Explorer (2 dOorJ Manual 4-wheel drive 66.000 miles call: 784-8303 or 219,232,5557 
Beautiful brass bed, queen size. with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. All new, never used, still in plastic. $235 219-862-20~2 
WANT AVON? Cafl 237-1919 
NO PLANS FOR THE HOLIDAYS? NEW YEAR'S? Vacation in Chicago for $22/night. Stay at Hostelling Int'! -Chicago. Call 312/360-0300. www.hichica­
go.org. 
PERSONAL 
VOTE FOR NOTRE DAME IN TOURNEY OF TRADITIONS! Go to http://prom­otions. go. com/espn/tostitos/front­page.html and vote tor NO in ESPN.com's Tourney of Traditions! Vote now for ND to advance through the top 16 to win No 1 for the school with the best football tra­dition. While you're thre, enter for a chance to win a trip for up to 10 people to the 2001 Tostitos Fiesta Bowl in Tempe, Arizona. Go NO! 
High-Speed Copies, Color Copies, Binding, Fax SeNice, Resumes, Business Cards, Laminating & More! At 
laFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY Free Pick-Up & Delivery! 
THE COPY SHOP La Fortune Student Center Store Hours Mon-Thur: 7:30 am-Midnight Fri: 7:30 am-7:00pm Sat: Noon-6:00 pm Sun: Noon-Midnight PHONE 631-COPY 
Thanks for the retail therapy, Janel 
Mike... counting down the days 'till bar time already. Is that bad? 
Smile, Christine, you'll get through it. 
At least the paper anyway. I'm not sure I can help you with problem 
No. 2. 
If I had a million dollars .... 
I'd send you on a plane. Far, far, away. 
Plane, train, automobile...who cares? 
Katie Metzi -goad luck on your test, i know that you have one today! 
it's beginning to look a lot like 
Christmas hey keith! hope you have a good day! 
i'm henry the eighth i am 
yea waterpolol lhis is our week, i can feel a win! hey it's wednesday, almost the 
weekend, especially for me! 
nice b-ball game alumni, you'll get them next time hey kelle, it's a good thing you have 
cool pals like us 
this is going to be an unheard of early night. yea for me! i wish it was my birthday christine is my new favorite person 
b/c she makes me laugh I enjoy people who make me laugh hahahahahaha all of you people need to behave 
yourselves! well, i'm off -soon I'll be home ­have a great day everyone! 
THE COPY SHOP 

Wednesday, November 15, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 15, 2000 
PRO TENNIS 

Martina Hingis wins $2M in Chase Championships 

AP Pholo Martina Hingls, shown above, advanced to the quarterfinals of the Chase Championships with a 6-2, 6-3 win over Julie Halard-Decugis. 
SEXUAL ASSAULT AWARENESS WEEK 
NEW YOHK 
In a dominating perfor­mance, Martina llingis brt•e:wd into Lht\ q11artPrfi11als of the $2 million Chase Championships and sent Julie llalard-Dccugis into retire­nrn11l from singles play. 

"I stop everything." llalarcl­l>ccugis said al'ler l'alling 6-2, .,. (i-3 Tuesday ni~ht in the sea­
son-ending tour-"/ was surprised myself however,
11 amen t at 

how well I served today waved off
Madison Square 

the call,
Garden. "This is I'm just enjoying myself 

saying the
the last match of 

out there." ball hit the 
my career." 

line, and
Earlier in the 

the two
day. Amanda Martina Hlngis 

replayed
Coetzer enjoyed Chase Championships 

the point.
a rare victory in 

quarterfinalist 1-lingis won 
an arena that has hrought her nothing but trouble. The ~­t"oot-2 South African routed eighth-seeded Chanda Hubin fi-2. 6-1. 
The 11ight's final singles match pitlcd No. 7 Anna Kournikova against Jennifer Capriati. 
The 11rst round will be com­pleted Wednesday with No. 6 Nathalie Tauziat against /\my Frazier; No. 3 Monica Seles against Sandrine Testud and No. 2 Lindsay Davenport against Elena Dcmcntieva. 
llingis is ranked Nu. 1 in the world in singles; llalard­l)ccugis in doubles. llingis put on a clinic, thoroughly domi­nating their match through­out. 
"I was surprised myself' how well I served today," llingis said. 'Tm just enjoying myself out there." 
llingis won 60 points to just 36 for her French opponent. But the 20-year-old Swiss right-hander, who hasn't won a major tournament since the Australian Open in January 1l)99, won every important point in the match. 
"I couldn't do anything on her serve," llalard-Decugis said. "She wasn't making any mistakes. And she knows my game very well." 
Hingis lost her serve just 

once, in the third game of the match. But she broke right back, then held to go up 4-1. Twenty.four minutes after they began, llingis was uµ a set. It took another 28 minutes before she had a spot in the quarterfinals of the elite 16· player event. 
In a rare display of sports­manship in the sixth game of Lhe second set. a drive by llingis was called long. 
llalard­
Dccugis, 
the point. b u t Halard-Decugis won the game. 
With more than 2,000 stu­dents cheering every point in the morning match, Coetzer gained just her second victory on the blue carpet in her eighth trip to the Garden and her first since her Championships debut in 1993. It was only her third win in nine matches against Rubin. 
"It was nice to know what it feels like to win here," Coetzer said. 
Hubin's left knee was heavily taped, and it appeared to hamper her movement. After losing the first three games of the second set, she had the tape removed and replaced it with a bandage just below her knee. 
It might have improved her mobility, but it had no effect on Coetzer, who won in 54 

SAT, Nov. 18 

Panel of Survivors at 7:00 pm 
in the Montgomery Theater 
Grol!p Prayer at 7:30 pm at 
the Grotto 
Skit "When a Kiss is NotJust a Kiss" at 5:30 pm at the Library Auditorium 
Princes of Babylon Concert at Alumni-Senior Club at 10 pm $3 for ND/SMC students, $5 for non-student's tickets available at LaFortune information desk 
www. n d.edu/--j schuyI e / c.gif 
-------------------, 

Wednesday, November 15, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

page i~ 
B-ball 
continued from page 24 
minutes she pluyed in the second hall'. Although the Irish bc~an the second halt' on a l 'J-2 run to oxpand the h·ud Lo 75-33. McGraw was still concerned. 
"I don't think we gave her ( H iIcy ) (\ 11 o u gh oppo r t u n i ­Lit\S," Md;raw said. "Seven shots (Biley's total attempts 011 the night) is not enough." 
Notrn Dame started off 
stow anti led 17-12 before scoring 11 straight. A .lenuka Joycu three-pointer from the left wing gave the Irish their biggest lead of Lim halt' at 48-21 with !'our 111inut1-1s remaining. 
In her second collegiate game, Joyce scored all 14 of twr points in the first 20 minutes. She was the first player off the bench and connected on four three­µuinters. 
Forward Alicia Ratay (17 points and 8 rebounds) also nailed four 3s. while point guard Niele Ivey missed a triple double by one point and two assists. Ivey led the team with 10 rebounds. 

Tapiolcn llonka returns to Europe today after playing ,. l O games in the past 17 days. They lost 120~46 to 
I 
I ' Ohio State on Sunday and 119-44 against Purdue on Nov. 1. The team shot just 33 percent from the field on Tuesday, including 25 per­cent in the second half. "It's nice to go home," coach Mikko Mantyla said. "We've got a lot to work to do in the next three days," McGraw said. "We plan to come out (on Friday) with a lot more intensity... 
Recycle The Observer. 
·;rmhats
11oves 
larpstseledioa
onlyat....:;..~ 
~nu~ 
s ors
Campus Cu ; ,IM-c:11--,,-­Call 259-1000 for more details 
PataQ'onia
excltisively 
at-.~ 
Sminute~
from CIUTPCIIST Camnus s ors 
'J:_ eom,»ttt/wln ffWYNII• 
Call 259-1000 for more details 

The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 15, 2000 

(1) 
(.)
-
-0 
X 
0 
ro 
(1) C ::) 
+-,__ 0 
LL 
0 
_j 
+­
0 
u 
0 
en 
(1) 
..0 
3 
en 
(1) 
-
.::,,,:. 
(.) 
1-­
u 
(1) 
>
,__ (1) 
en 
(1) 
..0 
-3 
en 
-+­
C (1) 
E 
..c. 
t./) 
(1)
.,__ 
(1) 
-
CY 
ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB $3 ND&SMC STUDENTS $5 NON STUDENTS NOVEMBER 18 l 0:00 PM ALL AGES 
.0 
:::, 
-V) l :::, -0 

(]) A Philadelphonic band that has -0 C 
opened for G-Love & the Special 3 3 
3 

Sauce, Macy Gray, and Wycleff Jean, 
POB combines roots, reggae, r&b, jazz, 
blues, and funk all in the context of 
u 
C 

contemporary hip-hop beats. 0 
• 

Wednesday, November 15, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page·19 

THE STANDING COMMITTEE ON 
GAY AND LESBIAN STUDENT NEEDS 

THE STANDING (OMMITTE ON GAY AND LESBIAN STUDENT NEEDS 
IS HOSTING A PANEL DISCUSSION ENTITLED 
HOMOSEXUALITY AND THE FAMILY 
IN THE 
HESBURGH CENTER AUDITORIUM 
I 
AT 

7:30 P.M. 
ON 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15 
PRESENTERS: 
FR. DAVID BURRELL, C.S.C. 
NANCY AND HANK MASCOTT, FROM PFLAG MICHIANA AND TWO STUDENT MEMBERS OF THE 
STANDING COMMITTEE 
DISCUSSION WILL BE FOLLOWED BY A 
9:00 PM RECEPTION IN THE HESBURGH 
(ENTER GREAT HALL, WITH FOOD AND DRINKS. 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 15, 2000 


Happy Birthday Molly Love, Tuesday's Staff 
Are you outgoing and full of ideas?? 
Are you a freshman or sophomore in need of a resume builder?? 
Would you like to say in a job interview that you lead and planned a radio fundraiser?? 
THEN JOIN US! 
The Sound WSND88.9FM 
is looking for an assistant business manager for the Spring 2001 semester. Great resume builder. H interested, contact Margaret Kaiser. mkaiserl@nd.edu 4-1458 
Football 
continued from page 24 
And Davie is not saying or doing much publicly about postseason possibilities or the pressure that is weighing in heavily on the Irish to win out for the remainder of the sea­son. All Davie wants to do is talk about the game at hand and the factors the Irish are focusing on. 

"This week, just like every week, the scenario changes," Davie said. "We are playing at Rutgers -the first time we have ever played there in that stadium, the first time I have ever been on that campus. It is [head coach] Terry Shea's last home football game that he is coaching in. We have players from New Jersey. So as always, those are the issues." 
Davie knows that if the Irish stay focused on the task at hand, they have the talent to 

NEED A LOAN? Morrissey Loan Fund 
Up to ~250 at 1% interest rate for 30 days 
(must be a ND student) 

La Fortune Student Center Across from the Information Desk 
Mondays from 3:00-4:00 Tuesday-Friday from 12:30-1:30 
Most ND Students Make Healthy Choices 
j 
g> 
i ·a. f
::::, 
"iii 
~ 
it I 
i ~ 
I 
1 
8 
l 
A message from PILLARS with Alcohol & Drug Education 311 LaFortune Student Center University of Notre Dame (219) 631-7970 http://www.nd.edu/~aldrug/ 


Wednesday, November 15, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
VOLLEYBALL 
Volleyball signs new freshmen to class of 2005 
Special co the Observer 
Three high school seniors will make Notre Dame their home in the fall of 2001. Kelly Corbett, Emily Loomis and Leah Nedderman have signed letters of intent to play volley­ball at the University of Notre Dame. beginning in the fall. 
Irbh head coach Debbie Hrown is excited about the class of 2005 and feels they 
blend perfectly into the Notrn Dame program. 
"Speed has been a key qua!• ity we have looked for and we have that in all three of these student-athletes." Brown said. "Another important trait is competitiveness and a will to win. All three meet that crite­ria as well." 
Corbett is a 6-foot-0 middle blocker out of St. Francis High School in Mountain View, Calif., which is currently ranked second in the nation and captured the state title in 1997 and 1998. 
A four-year starter for St. francis, Corbett helped the team compile a 149-6 record during her career. She was named Most Valuable Player in the DeAnza League last season and earned All­American honors at the 1999 Junior Nationals in New 
1 
The Faces 01 Holy Cross 

New Candidates at Moreau Seminary 
Holy Cross: The Next Generation 
ANSWER ~ 
THECALL W 

www.nd.edu/-vocation 

Orleans. La. Since Corbett Loomis, the 2000 Fort began playing at St. Francis. Wayne News-Sentinel Female the team has never lost a Athlete of' the Year. is also league home game or match. among 10 finalists for the 
"I am just ecstatic to receive Wendy's High School Heisman an opportunity to attend Notre Award. Dame,'' Corbett said. "Signing "I am very excited about day was a big deal for me and signing with Notre Dame," 
my family. I  Loomis  
h a v e worked  "Speed has been a key quality  said. love  "1 the  
very  hard  we have looked for and we  coaches  
for  this  have that in all three ofthese  and  the  
opportuni­ty and my family is extremely  student-athletes. Another important trait is competitiveness and a will to  players. I am really looking forward  
proud."  win. All three meet that criteria  to  the  
Brown believes  as well.,,  opportu­nity to  
Corbett has some very  Debbie Brown  play with them."  
important  Irish head coach  A  I  •  

personality traits that will add to the Irish program. 
"Kelly is coming out of" great situation because she has been in a winning program," Brown said. "She possesses a burning desire to win. She is a fighter and a competitor. Those are the characteristics we want in this program. One of Kelly's strengths is her speed. She is extremely quick 
and  moves  laterally  very  
well."  
Loomis  hails  from  Fort  

Wayne, Ind., and will be the first Indiana native to sign with the Irish since current senior outside hitter Christi Girton. 
The tallest Irish recruit at 6-1, Loomis is a three-sport standout playing track, bas­ketball and volleyball at Bishop Luers High School. A member of the two-time state champion basketball team, Loomis holds the sectional high jump record of 5-7 and has a jump reach measured at 10-5. 
Loomis holds the school vol­leyball records for kills in a season with 272, a hitting percentage of .397 and 76 blocks. 
The Copy Shop in the 

Lafortune Student Center will provide you with high-quality documents. We pride ourselves on being masters of accuracy. Whether you have manuals, brochures, or other copy projects, you can be sure of receiving the highest level of accuracy for your dollar. We'll show you what accuracy is all about! 
High Volume Copying & Printing Color Copying, Scanning & Printing Binding / Tabs /Laminating/ Fax Service Newsletters / Reports / Business Cards Desktop Publishing Service 
FREE PICK-UP & DELIVERY! Quality Copies, Quickly!™ 
www.CopyShopND.com 

though 
she is slated to begin at outside hit­ter and opposite for the Irish next season, Loomis has the ability to play any position on the court. 
"She is an excellent blocker and has very good natural instincts for blocking," Brown said. "She is an all-around player with solid passing and defensive skills. She has never dedicated herself to volleyball full-time, but I think that is very healthy. She will be able to maximize her potential next season." 
Leah Nedderman will be the third Texan on the Irish roster next. Nedderman, who hails from Grapevine. Texas, is a 5­10 outside hitter who possess­es raw speed and natural ath­letic ability. 
"There are a couple things that stand out with Leah," Brown said. "She has very good jumping ability. She also possesses very good all­around skills, solid court sense and excellent communi­cation skills. 
"Any of her past coaches had nothing but good things to say about her -not only as a player but as a person as well." 
A two-sport star in volley­ball and track at Colleyville High School, Nedderman also played at· Grace Preparatory in 1997 with her sister Anna, who currently plays for Tulsa. She has been named the dis­trict defensive player of the year. district outstanding hit­ter and team most valuable player. also earning the team Heart and Hustle Award. She earned the MVP award at the University of Texas-Arlington volleyball camp in 1997 and 
2000. 
"I am really excited that I have finally signed to attend Notre Dame," Nedderman said. "Notre Dame has been my choice for a while. but actually making the decision is great. While narrowing down my choices. I saw tho campus, met the coaches and players and I knew that Notre· Dame was a really good fit for me. 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 15, 2000 
CLUB SPORTS 

Men's volleyball finishes 3-1 in Notre Dame Invitational 
By DAVE BROWN 
Sporrs Writet 
,\fter a. briPf two-year hiatus, the men's vollcvball team hosted the Nolrc Dame Invitational at a new venue, the Holfs SporLs Hucrealion Center Nov. 3-5. In tlrnir best season opening tour­nament in several years, tho Irish postHd a 3-1 record in a very strong field and reached the semi-finals. Bolstered by the power of outside hitter Brian Price and miudle hitter Androw Mascarnhn.s. Notre Dame openf'd piny with wins over Bowling Grnen. 25-20, 26-24. and Michigan, 25-21. 22-25, 15 -7. Solid jump serving and all around play from Greg Silber. outstanding pcrf'ormance by Peter Strounans as the Irish' only sPttnr, and great leadership by Adam Schreier were on dbplay tlrn nntirc dav. Notre Dame then edged DaytZ111, 25-21, 27-25, lwfore falling lo TL•mwssec in the sPmi-11nals by a close margin. 25-22. 14-25, I 5-13. Sl. Louis University defeated Tennessee in the cli.impionship match in a field that also included Ohio St,Ltl\ and Ohio University. 
The Irish will next compete in two weeks at East Lansing, in the Michigan State Invitational. 
Field Hockey 
The Irish were victorious in two of three games this weekend at tlie Wheaton College Invitational. Liza Naticchia. assisted by senior Carolyn llodcrick. and sophomore Colhrnn Harkins, assisted by junior Deirdre ,\,lclnerney, found the 11et giving Notre Dame a 2-1 win over the University or Chicago. The second game was against the North Shore Club, a team comprised mostly of men with several years of internation­al playing experience. The Irish lost 2-0, despite outstanding mid­field play from freshman Liza Davis. In the third contPst of the day. Notre Dame rebounded to shutout hnst Wheaton. 2-0. 
This w,~ekend the Irish revenged Lhe loss last weekend and a September loss to North Shore Club of Chicago with a 
WIN A TRIP 
FOR TWO TO 
AFRICA 
This year the cast of MTV's 'The Real World' went to Africa. 
Now you can too! 
""'h
t$o~ 
Enter for o chance to win at your 
local Council Travel office or ot counciltrovel.com 
This trip to Africa is provided by 
f}t&J/ ill 
~~:':..~ v1rg1n
;;:;:-.,·•;;:.,"": atlant,c 
No Purcilasa Necessary. Open 10 1es1dants ol U.S., between Iha ages ol 1a and 35 •• al 915100. Void where p,ohoblled. Se!> agency 101 Ollioal Aules o, go lo councIllraW!l.cam SweepsIakes ends 10/15/00. 
~·---­
counciltravel.com 1-800-2COUNCIL 

thrilling 2-1 viclory Sunday at Stepan Field. Goals by senior J.R. Doria and sophomore Colleen Harkins and continued stellar midfield play f'rom freshman Liza Davis humbled North Shore, handing them their first defeat of the vear.
In its second game, Notre Dame demolished the University of Chicago by a score of 6-0. Lindsay Goodwin and Katie Solie tallied two goals each, while Collen Ilarkins and captain Liza Naticchia each hit the net once to complete the scoring. The Irish are awaiting the Ball State Invitational in February, where they will challenge sonrn of the Midwest's finest varsity pro­grams. 
Bowling 

A young Irish Bowling club continued to clash with strong competition as it linished 18th at the Akron Invitational Nov. 3-5. Dan Buttke posted high scores for the keglers. with a 195 aver­age. while Jason Pawlak rolled an average of 190. 
Ultimate 

Both the men and women's ultimate l'risbee clubs used invi­tationals on Nov. 3-5 as an opportunity to develop young players for the upcoming season. At Evanston, the women finished 2 -2 in round robin play in the Northwestern Invitational. With Monica Kerschner's lay out defense and Rachel Kelly's explo­sive offense, the Irish defeated Purdue 13 -7 and Michigan 9 -4, and lost to Northwestern, 11 -6, and Chicago, 7 -6 in a tiebreak­er. Newcomers Sarah Benton, Jules Dickinsos, Colleen Moak, and Julie Shutte played very well. portending another strong spring showing. 
The men closed their season giving new members equal play­ing time rather than use only experienced players in the Volunteer Classic at Tennessee. The club posted a 3-2 mark for the weekend. opening with a vic­tory over U. T. Cbatanooga, 13 ­5, and a 13 -9 setback to Georgia Tech. The lrish rebounded to defeat Knoxville 13 -7 to qualify for the quarterfinals standing rides on Sunday, plac­ing fifth in open fences and gar­nering a first placn in opnn l1at competition. Others riders that scored points for Notre Da11w were Jen Pojunas and Cristin Housch. Pojunas tuok a second place l'inish in intcrmodiatB fences. Housch took annthl'r tirst for the Irish in intennediatP flat. 1iarning thren team points with a f'ourth place standing in novicP fences. 

where they dpfcated Virginia Tech, 13 -9. In the semifinals, Tennessee prevailed 15 -9, despite continued strong play from Mike Shiel, Chris Rull, Greg Ladky, David Hoffman, and Frank Helgesen. 
Equestrian 
Hack to back weekend shows at St. Mary's of the Woods College and Taylor University saw several equestrians continue 
How WouLo You LIKE To DESIGN THE MOST POPULAR SHIRT ON CAMPUS? 
SUBMIT YOUR DESIGN FOR 

E MIII 

soo• 
TO THE STUDENT ACTIVITES OFFICE BY MONDAY NOV. 27TH 
ANY OllESTIONS: SEND EMAi LTo cdefilip@nd.edu 

Taste of Nations 
a successful fall campaign. On Saturday, Lyndsey Lyden cap­tured second place in both open fences and open fiat. Overall. the Irish finished second at a team, earning Reserve Highpoint hon­ors. Leading the Irish was Mary Barter. whose lirst place tinishes in both intermediate flat and novice fences earned here high­poi.n t rider honors. with 14 points, and qualified her for the Hegionals. Lyden again had out-



Th~ Lntern:.11innal Student Organtzaticin \\ hishes to cxtcnd<f(r.V~~g ~1 warm invit;.1tion lo :..ill students co taste the world's be-,i cuisine' I ntcrnational Sludcnls \viH be preparing their ______,:oumry's llh)st traditiunal anJ favorite plates. All _-.;tudcnts 

:in.:-,~·t:konlL' lo ,:ome anJ L'nioy for only 3 Jollars~ When',' l·t'iday. ~u,. 17. 7:30prn -tJ:_)Opm \\ !i1.:rc·_i C.:ntcr rur Sucia! Concern .... 



~~ ~~ 
0
"c.,.;.... 

ACROSS  35 Trolley  63 Conductor _  WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2000  
1 Cake with a kick 5 Lemon locale? 11 Freestyle musical  predecessor 36 Guitarist Hendrix 37 Scrape together 39 Slight  Pekka Salonen 64 Communicated like Marlee Matlin  CELEBRITIES BORN ON nns DAY: Ed Asner, Beverly D'Angelo, Petula Oark, Sam Waterston Happy Birthday: You will have to  can move into a position of leader­ship if you are willing to voice your opinions at group meetings. Your strength and determination will  
performance 14 Cousins of kiwis 15 Pricing word 16 Et Dorado's lure 17 Airplane for a rock singer?  40 Certain erratum 42 Use an atomizer 43 Cooking area for an actor? 46 Part of Q.E.D. 47 Bush spokesman  65 Where people shape up DOWN 1 Seem suitable for  really focus on what you want to accomplish this year. It will be easy for you to lose sight of your goals and fall short of your expectations. The more prepared and organized you are, the more successful you will be. Look inward, and you will dis­ surely win you points as well as • allies. 0000 LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct. 22): You can expect to have difficulties with fe­male members of your family. You will need patience in order to avoid outbursts of temper. It is best not to  
19 Pinch, in a way 20 Currently plentiful 21 Scrum game 23 Playpen item  Fleischer 48 Hero 51 lost 54 In an unharmonious  2 acid 3 1991 gangster role for Warren Beatty 4 Queens stadium  cover your strengths as well as your weaknesses. Your numbers: 7, 18, 22, 31, 35, 40 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Make changes in your living arrange­ments today. Be careful not to over­ confront emotional situations. 00 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Travel will promote romance and adventure. You will be interested in the cultural background of those you meet. You can acquire knowledge if  
24 When repeated, a 1953 Cole Porter musical 25 Comparative word  way 56 "How dumb of me!" 57 Place for a senator's car?  name 5 Kind of salad 6 Green perimeters 7 Rembrandt van  spend or take on a project that is beyond your capabilities. Try to en­courage others to help, but don't be pushy.000 TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will have trouble pleasing friends  you are willing to try new things. 00000 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may get bogged down if you allow others to push their responsibilities on you. Confusion  
27 Medical supplies for a chanteuse? 32 Argus-eyed  60 Last in a series 61 "Seinfeld" role 62 End-of­performance call  8 Writer Harper 9 Pumpkin time: Abbr. 10 Quaternities  and relatives. It is best to suit your­self rather than bang your head against a wall. You need to relax and get in touch with your own feelings. 00  regarding the personal papers of someone close to you may be unnerving. 000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will have to take a long hard  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE A L  11 "Fanny" novelist 12 Kaffiyeh wearer 13 Dick  Puzzle by Adam Cohan  GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will be able to make progress in your business deals today. Be discriminat­ing when choosing partners. Some  look at your emotional commit­ments. You will not be too happy if your mate is overindulgent. Don't do things that will encourage escapism.  
A M O E U  --+-E--1-E-1 18 Understood 22 Disheveled __,__s~A-1 25 Santa Fe Trail town 26 Take on 27 Invention spawned by a pie tin 28 Yours, once .....+--+-+,...._...., 29 Patisserie employee 30 Butler's haunt E R 31 Long basket, in basketball slang  33 Capital near Callao 34 Literally, "Gommander" 37 Costa 38 Hot month in Quebec 41 Colorful wraps 42 Apiarist's woe 44 Copper coating: Var. 45 Decreased? 48 America's Cup  50 They're 53 Queens stadium committed to name memory 54 Comparable 51 Cabinetmaker's 55 Handoutstool 58 Ring master? 5211 to 20, for some counters 59 Joplin specialty Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the  individuals may want to ride on your coattails. 000 CANCER (June 21-July 22): You'll have problems understanding your partner's actions. Go over the events that led to the dilemma facing you. You must look at all the facts if you wish to eliminate confusion. 00 LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Someone you trust may not have your best interests in mind. Avoid involvement in secret affairs or triangles that could ruin your reputation. Don't be­lieve everything you hear. 000 VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You  00 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will be able to inspire confidence in others and get them to help you accomplish your goals. Your charm­ing manner will entice your mate and help stabilize your relationship. 000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Romance will be most alluring. Trav­el and philosophical pursuits will be exciting and rewarding. Don't over• spend on entertainment or personal purchases. 00000  
--+-+--+-,,N+C.,..+,E....,  32 "Get_• (1957  entrant  best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50  Birthday Baby: You are clinging, sensitive and very helpful. You have a.'1  
A Y S S O  hit)  49 Extreme  years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  excellent memory and will not lose sight of what you want to do. You are  
dedicated, loyal and f~y oriented.  


Wednesday, November 15 , 2000 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TYLER
THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY
TOM KEELEY

FOURTH AND INCHES 
JORCAN. ARE YOV FINISHEt> WITH THAT PAPER I IT ASSIGNEO THREE TOMORROW
wee:s A&O,Y_ET?
__A'-,­


I CAN'T BB.IEVE THAT IT 
WHO 00 THE CANDIDATES 

I SAY ENOUGH WITH THE 
HAS SEEN A WHOLE WEEK 
THINK THEY ARE? COUNTING 
POllTICSI 
ANb WE STILL t>ON'T 
AND RECOUNTING BALLOTS... 

I l>EMANC RESPONSIBILITYl 
KNOW WHO THE NEXT 
AN B.ECTION CAN'T SE POST ­

I 06N\AND RESUI.TS AND 
PRESIDENT WILL BE 

I t>EMAND TH6N\ ON TIMB 
Vou'rt rtght.
Th• d,r+v booK Selle. 1$n·+ WMt ~ -tl\~l'\1' 
1t w~S­

.... 
,.....) 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
------~------------~---------------------------~---------------------~---­
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-. 

Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
. Name _____________________ 
Address ___________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 



Looking ahead 
Irish head coach Debbie Brown talks about Notre Dame's three new recruits for the 2001 season.

PORTS 
page 14 Brown 

.... OTHE page 24 BSERVER Wednesday, November 15, 2000 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish 'Finnish' off Junior National Team 98-53 
plish somelhing."

By TIM CASEY 
With the Irish comfortably Assisr,mr Spun< Edirur 
ahead in the second half, McGraw was able to play the Clance at the score of entire team. All 10 women Tuesday's exhibition game scored, led by Meaghan and an obvious reaction or Leahy's 15 coming off the satisfaction comes to mind. bench. The forward shot 5­For coach Mulfct McGraw. f'or-6 from the field and con­howcver. Notre Dame's 98-vcrted on all five of her free 53 win over Tapiolen Ilonka throw attempts. She scored provided littlC' satisf'action. 1O of the Irish·s 15 points in 
"I didn't feel like lhe inten-a nine-minute stretch near sity on defense _ the end of was there and I "/ was really focusing on Lhe game. 
didn ·t l"eul ~e exe: [not getting in trouble]. I .. Th at· s cuted on olfense, the best McGraw said. wan_ted to prooe to game she's "There wercn 't a myselj that I could play played in a lot of positives." smart... long time," 
After opening McGraw with a 35-point s a i d . win over the Ohio Ruth Riley " W e · r e All-Stars, the Irish looking l'or hosted a group of the seventh players from the Finnish and eight person. Meghan Junior National Team on made a great push for that Tuesday night. tonight." 
Three 16-year olds and Huth Hiley also helped put three 17-year olds suited up a smile on her coach's face, for Tapiolen llonka. Tatum as the 6-foot-5 center com­Brown (an cx-UNC-Charlotte mitted zero fouls. Since she player) and Jamika Jones, arrived at Notre Dame, who plays for the Miami Sol Riley's tendency to foul has in the WNBA, made their limited her playing time and debut and combined for 33 has ca.used concern for the of the squad's points. entire team. 
Jones scored 22 points on "I was really focusing on 9-ol'-22 shooting, including [not getting into foul trou­17 in the first half. ble]." Hiley said. "I wanted 
"We had a great opportu-to prove to myself that I nity to be challenged [by could play smart." .Jones!," McGraw said. "I The senior All-American wasn't happy with the finished with eight points defensive effort on her. If we and six rebounds. Riley did could have shut her down a not attempt a shot in the six little bit more, we would have been able to accom­
see B-BALL/page 18 

-
FOOTBALL 
Davie focuses team effort and constant improvement 
mediocre 5-7 season and quiet ment. an overtime loss to then-No. 1 unproven, the next two teams By KERRY SMITH calls for a new coaching staff Poring over game tape, rein­Nebraska and a heartbreaker on Notre Dame's schedule Spom Editor once and for all, right? forcing out-at Michigan don't have much to compare Not if you ask Davie. standing plays State, the Irish with the Irish on paper. But "With all the different things with awards "When we look at have combined that is not stopping Davie from
With just two games remain­

swirling around and all the and keeping a steady preparing diligently and mak­
ing and a 9-2 season a loom­ourselves, it's about 
implications of if you win, if the game and defense with a ing sure the Irish are readying possi­
the effort and it is

you lose, what happens two practice plan big-play offense when they step on the field in
bility, Bob 
Davie and 
weeks from now if you· win simple are the about the account-to rise from New Jersey Saturday. two games, if you just go one focus of the unranked status "You find out quickly it is not
the Irish ability to each other. " 
and one, honestly, none or that No. 11 team in to a position what you say, it's what they
have a lot.-on their matters," Davie said. "What the nation. not just short of a hear and it is not even what 
matters to me and this team is a post-season Bob Davie top-10 spot. they hear but what they have
minds. Like what the [game] tape is. And appearance to While Notre invested in it and how impor­
a Bowl head coach 
when we look at ourselves, it's quiet critics. Dame has found tant it is to them," he said. "I
Champio­about the effort and it is about A quick success from a think they do more on what
nship 
the accountablity to each glance at Notre Dame's sched­number of unlikely heroes, they see you do than what you
Series bid. Davie 
other." ule makes it easy to overlook Rutgers and the University of say you do."
lhat would 
Davie contends the Irish are the remaining games. Hiding a Southern California have not
provide 
focused on constant improve-tive-game winning streak after fared as well. Unranked and
redemption af'Ler a less than see FOOTBALL/page 20 
vs. Northern Michigan at Rutgers
~,
. Friday, 7:05 p.m. Saturday, 3:30 p.m . 

SPORTS ~ 
Women's College Cup third round
ATA Big Ease T oumamem 
vs. Harvard
~ 
Friday, 7 p.m @ Semifinals M vs. Sacred Heart Saturday, I p.m.12:30 p.m. Saturday, 8:30 p.m. 
GLANCE 





