
Fleeing the country? 
Calling it quits 
Grab your passport andfollow Notre Dame 

Monday
Peruvian president Alberlo Fujimori, currently 
and Saint Mary's study abroad programs 
on a state visit to Japan, plans to resign, 
from England to Egypt. 
bending to months ofpublic outrage. 
NOVEMBER 20, 
Scene . page 10-11 
World & Nation . page 5 
2000 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXTV Nb. 58 



Dillon RA struck by drunk driver Friday 
• Victim expected to be released from hospital soon 

By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Staff Write, 
Joe Steirer, a senior resident assistant in Dillon Hall. was struck by a car at 2:37 a.m. Saturday at the corner of Edison Road and Ivy Road DUI, police said. He was taken to Memorial Hospital of South Bend where he was treated and released, according to a hospi­tal spokesperson. 
Police said Steirer was stand­ing in the road when he was struck by Benassi's Beretta traveling west on Edison. Steirer collided with the left front bumper of the Beretta, police said. 
A witness who was stopped at 
a light on Ivy 
said Steirer 

near the "Pray for him. We'll get ran into the 
Linebacker 
street and did

him home before long." 
Lounge, 
not see the car 
South Bend 

which struck police said. Father Paul Doyle him on the Steirer was 
rector, Dillon Hall side and 
taken to St. Joseph's Regional Medical Center where he remains in fair condition, a hospital spokesperson said. Dillon Hall rector Father Paul Doyle said Steirer suffered a fractured skull, severely bruised his left ankle and foot and received several stitches in his elbow. 
"It is still hoped that his recovery will be complete," Doyle said. 
The driver of the vehicle, John Benassi, 19, of the 3700 block of Lincolnway West in South Bend, was charged with 
flipped him 
into the air. The witness said he didn't think the driver saw Steirer. 
After the accident, Benassi turned his car around and returned to the scene when he realized he had hit a person, police said. 
Steirer's father is staying in Dillon Hall until his son is released from the hospital, according to Doyle. Doyle said Steirer will remain in the hos­pital for a few more days. 
"Pray for him," Doyle said. "We'll get him home before long." 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


SCARLET FEVER 



Increased enrollment puts stress on residences, classes 
each year. All figures are based too large a problem. Notre have been able to maintain a the hardest by this increase in By AMANDA GRECO on data collected from the pre­Dame has the country's highest small class size," Kolman said. the student body. Mark Roche, 
News Writer 

vious years' admission statis­percentage of students studying According to Kolman, all writ­dean of the College of Arts and tics. abroad at 38 percent; really it ing and seminar courses have Letters, admits that the College
When University President "In the last 5 years, approxi­doesn't matter how many we been kept at 19 students per is "definitely feeling the pres­Father Edward Malloy mately 33 to 34 percent of all over-admit because so many class. sure of larger enrollment." addressed the Faculty Senate applicants were accepted. On are overseas," Riley concluded. "I feel the University is seri­"The College has been trying last month, he cited improved average -and this has been Within the colleges, though, ous about trying to keep a lid to address this issue and that of financial aid as the reason ris­consistent over the last 15 the numbers on it [enroll­the larger class sizes indepen­ing enroll­years -5 5 to 5 6 percent of are starting to ment]," dent of the increasing number
"There is no deliberate

ment rates those accepted have con­rise. Kolman of students,'' Roche said. "It has have been firmed," Riley said. "But that According to effort to increase the added. been a challenge." difficult to figure rose one or two percent­Eileen undergraduate student Riley also Within the College of Arts and gauge. age points one year ago." As Kolman, dean praised the Letters, great strides have been
body. We are trying to

"There is more students have been finan­of First Year efforts of the made to assure that classes are no deliber­cially able to attend in recent of Studies, hold the line as much as First Year of being taught by Teaching and ate cffort to years, tlie figures from the past though the Studies office Research professors. According 
possible. " 

increase vears have become less and number of as they have to Roche, 100 percent of all the under­less accurate. students in dealt with ris­University seminars are taught grad stu­This rise in actual number of each class is Father Edward Malloy ing numbers. by so-called "T&R" professors. dent body," confirmed attendees has result­within one University president "The office of "The real strain is on Core," Malloy said. "We are trying to ed in difficulties with housing, percent of the the First Year Roche said, referring to the hold the line as much as possi­maintaining small class sizes, target, the of Studies Ideas.Values and Imagesble." keeping the student/faculty excess does place a strain on frown upon us in admissions,'' course required of all sopho­However, that line is waver­ratio low and each college's planning. "There are limits to he said. "They have to manage more Arts and Letters majors. ing and the effects are being ability to offer enough sections the curriculum and classes, and larger English classes and other The College is aiming to have felt throughout the University. of required seminars. I don't want to see us continue required courses. But they have 50 percent of all Core classes 
James Riley, undergraduate One of the smallest ripples the upward trend that has been made a fine effort in keeping be taught by T&R professors by admissions counselor, caused by this increase con­seen over the last several the maximum number of of stu­next year. explained the process the cerns the housing of students. years," Kolman said. dents at 19 for English courses Though the student/faculty University uses to determine "Some dorms have had to turn Kolman commended her and 24 for foreign languages," ratio remains at 12:1 by the the number of students it will study lounges into rooms for a office's ability to steady the Riley added. admissions office's estimates. it accept and how many of those semester or so," Hiley sa,id. number of students in certain The College of Arts and accepted are expected to attend "But for the most part, it isn't courses. "I am pleased that we Letters seems to have been hit see NUMBERS/page 4 

Monday, November 20, 2000 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The perfect date 
I had four dates on Friday night. 

Now before you go making any accusations, I'd just like to clear the record to say that I couldn't really turn any of them down. I mean. all of them were perfect. They were incredibly good looking, great conver­sationalists. and they all have that ability to make me laugh harder than anyone else. So what's a girl to do when every single one was the perfect date? 
The solution: take 'em all 
out. 

It was one of the best nights that I've had in a long time. And it's funny that I say that because I had to pay for my own dinner, my own movie ticket, and no one held a single door for me all night. No one bought me popcorn, and I got no goodnight kiss at the door. By all conventional standards, it was an awful date. 
But it was wonderful because I was with my girlfriends. 
Friday night we piled into cars, clad in sweaters and jeans and sat mesmerized for two hours in front of the most hyped chic flick of the year-Bounce. We were incredibly cheezy, oohing and aahing every time Ben Aflleck took off his shirt, giggling devilishly during the romantic scenes. and even shedding a few tears at the end. I'd like to take this opportunity to apologize to whomever was sitting in front of us, because I'm sure we ruined the movie for them. 
But frankly, we didn't care. 

You see, it's been months since the last time we've done this. It's been months since I've had these wonderful women in one place at one time, laughing at the same jokes, crying at the same prompts, and just enjoying being together. I don't know why we've been so negligent to each other for so long; I guess it just seems that sometimes, life gets in the way of everything that's important. 
At least for me. I know that on a weekly basis, I spend more hours editing pages and writing stories than I do talking to my friends. I know that I spend hundreds of minutes and frantic seconds stressing over the next research paper that's due, the next statistics test I have or the next deadline that needs to be met. And when I finally finish everything that my life demands and have time to knock on their door, the dark window over the doorway reminds me that again, another day has passed where I haven't spent quality time with them. 
I know that they don't know it, but these women keep me going. They keep me smiling when nobody else can, they pick me up when it seems like I'll never get up on my own. They bring me cold medic_ine when I'm sick, call me because they know I ignore my alarm in the morning and drag me to get coffee after an all­nighter at the office so that I'll make it through my 9:30 class. And they continue to be great friends, even when I'm not. 
So, with all that in mind, you can see why my Friday night was so special. You can see why it was the best date a girl could ask for. 
Even if they didn't hold any doors. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene Finn Pressly Christina Martini Tim Logan Graphics 
Scott Brodfuehrer 

Katie Annis Sports Production 
Noah Amstadter Andrew Soukup Viewpoint Lab Tech Lauren Beck Lisa Velce 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday cxcepc during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of th< A,;~ociated Press. All r~produC[ion rights are reserved.. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Monday 
. 
Brionne Clary Memorial Mass: 5:15 p. m. Basilica. 

. 
"High School" 7 p. m. Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. $2 


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Tuesday 
. "Four Days in September'' Latin American Film Series. 7 p. m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
Wednesday 
. Men's Basketball: vs. Loyola {Chicago). 7 p. m. Joyce Center 
. Interfaith Christian 
Praftr: 10 p. m. Walsh Hall Chapel. 
Thursday 
. Thanksgiving Buffet: 
Noon, North Dining Hall. 
. Thanksgiving Day Mass:. 
11 :30 a. m. Basilica 
. Happy Turkey Day: 
Wherever you are. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Washington TA strike may endanger graduation 
SEATTLE 

Almost 900 University of Washington seniors who are gradu­ating this quarter may be delayed from receiving their degree if teach­ing assistants decide to strike next month. 
The Otlice of Admissions is basing that estimate on the number of stu­dents who graduated last December, said Tim Washburn, executive direc­tor of admissions and records. TAs do much of the grading in courses from various departments, and in some cases teach their own classes. 
"Hopefully most of the students are taking upper division classes, and those are mostly taught by profes­sors," Washburn said. "However, for those seniors that are still fulfilling general education requirements like 

"Without all the grades in, a strike would postpone a degree," Washburn said. 
Many seniors are also applying for graduate school, with deadlines approaching for final undergraduate transcripts. Washburn said that the University will send written explana­tions for delayed transcripts to grad­uate school or job applications. 
"Once students put in a transcript request. if they do that, [the universi­ty] will hold their transcript order," Washburn said. ''If a student has a missing grade or no grades at all, that will obviously delay sending that transcript." 
"Once the transcript is complete. we will put a message in with the transcript that because of a strike, grades were not available," Washburn said 
Last month, about 80 percent of campus TAs voted to strike as a means of pushing the administration to recognize their union, the Graduate Student Employee Action Coalition (GSEAC). 

NORTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY 
10 frats sue school for $4.8 million 
RALEIGH, N.C. 

Ten North Carolina State University fraternities filed a lawsuit against the university Tuesday claiming that the Greek Life department misused $4.8 million in funds intended for the renovation and repair of the campus's 14 fraternity and sorority houses. The suit, filed in Wake County Superior Court, alleges that money collected from fraternity court residents through various increases in rent was used for ameni­ties other than the building repairs for which it was intended. Instead, that money was used for the pur­chase of such items as cell phones, cars and logo golf shirts, and much of it went to run the Greek Life department, said Raleigh lawyer Reef Ivey, the chief counsel representing the fraternities. "They have col­lected a lot of money and used it for the wrong things," he said. Early last year, the Greek Life department proposed an increase in fraternity court rent from $76,000 per house per year to $120,000 for the pur­pose of renovating all 14 houses. 
LOCAL WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWealher lorecast fer daytime conditions and high temperdlures 
4,~,~9MQ ~ ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy V,a AssOCJatBd Press Graph,csN11t 
UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH 
Paper challenges alcohol ad law 
UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa. 
In a case that could affect student publications across Pennsylvania, lawyers for the University of Pittsburgh's newspaper are asking the U.S. Supreme Court to review a state law that bans alcohol advertising aimed at stu­dents. The staff at The Pitt News says the law -Act 199, a 1996 amendment to the Pennsylvania Liquor Code ­violates the First Amendment and costs the paper thou­sands of dollars in advertising every year. The Pitt News is an independent student-run paper. Although the law is intended to discourage underage drinking, The Pitt News says three-quarters of its of readers are 21 or older. Lawyers from the American Civil Liberties Union have been fighting Act 199 on behalf of The Pitt News since 1999. So far, they've met with little success. Their case has been rejected in two levels of federal courts. "This is the only case we've been able to find where a court has upheld a law that prohibits a group of newspapers from publishing constitutionally protected information," said Vic Walczak, a lawyer with ACLU in Pittsburgh. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather" forecast for noon.Monday, Nov. 20. 
70-~ 
80• 
FRONTS: 

.......,... 
.......... 
0 2000 AccuWffther, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
® ~~= © D D CJ]' D. 1:2] D. High Low Shower• Ralrl T-•torma Flurrie1 Snow <co Sunny P1. Cloudy Cloudy 
VI,, Aa.sod.tled Prua  
AUanta  50  28  Detroit  34  22  Phoenix  76  48  
Boston  44  34  Fairbanks  25  14  Richmond  48  28  
Chicago  32  22  Madison  27  13  St. LOUIS  38  18  
Dallas  55  27  Miami  78  60  San Diego  72  50  
Denver  46  21  New York  45  36  Seattle  52  36  



Monday, November 20, 2000 The Observer . NEWS page 3 
Chicana 2000 concludes with film roles lecture 
By MARY CRAWFORD 
NewsWmer 
Women of color in American film have traditionally been type­cast in a narrow range of roles. said Patrick White, an associate professor of English at Saint Mary's, Friday. 
White used specific scenes in vu.rious films to expand his point. 
Historically multicultural women have only seemed to fit in certain roles due to the differ­ences between white actresses and Latina actresses, according to White. 
"In the movies from the 1930's until about tho 1960's. white women were often portrayed as virginal, frail and pure," White said. "And darker women were portrayed as passionate, sexy, sensual, strong and often hot­tcmpered." 
White pointed to "High Noon," a western film produced in 1952. Typical of this time period, women of color were given cer­tain characteristics. Katy Jurado, the Latina character, was por­trayed as more sensual, passion­ate and strong than the other supporting actress, Grace Kelly. Kelly had the typical traits of white females found in movies ­she was virginal and pure. 
"Katy Jurado was nominated for best supporting actress and went on to have a very distin­guished career," White said. "But she was always asked to basically play roles where she was the con­trasting character, or the multi­wltural character." 

During the 1970's and 1980's, movies switched from looking at Chicanas and began to concen­trate on the men of color. Examples of these !irms include "Yo Soy Chicano" (1972) and "La Bamba" (1987). 
White explained that current movies with Chicanas portray them as dealing with realistic problems that face a m"t1lticultur­al society. The example given was "Lone Star" released in 1996, starring Elizabeth Pena. Pena plays a history teacher who, among other things, faces the battle of wanting to teach her class history from a multicultural standpoint, but receives much resistance from opposing white parents. 
"This film discusses multicul­turalism in education. This is something that many schools must face today in our society," White said. " For someone inter­ested in cultural identity in the United States, one would lind it [this film] to be very rich." 
Chicana actresses are starting to get into more roles that don't necessarily coincide with what they are used to, according to White. But, still, many are limited to only certain roles. 
"Blood only means what you want it to mean," White said. "Identity becomes an active search in character roles." 
The lecture marked the close of the celebration of Chicana 2000 at Saint Mary's. 
ELECTION 2000 
Recount headaches continue 
Associated Press 
Lawyers for George W. Bush asked the Florida Supreme Court to halt the continued hand recount of ballots in the state's 
disputed presiden­tial elec­tion, argu­ing in a court fil­i n g Sunday that state 

law sets Bush out a clear deadline for vote returns. 

Bush argued ahead of a showdown hearing Monday that Florida election law pro­vides for one week of ballot counting after the election. That deadline passed Nov. 14 and Bush argued that the state's top election official was correct when she stuck to the deadline. 
"The secretary's conduct was reasoned and reason­able," Bush's lawyers wrote of Republican Secretary of State Katherine Harris. 
She followed Florida law exactly, and it would have been illegal for her to extend the deadline, Bush argued. 
"It would also violate the 
U.S. Constitution for the Secretary of State to permit the 3 counties to complete its (sic) manual recount and cer­tify those results," Bush's lawyers argued. "The selec­tive manual recounts autho­rize county boards to engage in arbitrary and unequal counting of votes, and result in the disparate treatment of Florida voters based solely on where within the state they happen to reside." 
Harris also filed a brief with the state high court, saying she acted correctly. She said Democrats were making up Florida law as they went along, raising more issues as each day passes, but also crit­icized Hepublicans as well. 
"The Democrats' perspec­tive is that the election code has to be read as man­
"/t is clear, that for the
dating that "If they each voters Democrats and the have the intent, irre­capacity,
Republicans, the object is 
spective of I'd urge
to win, and that is
whether the them to go voter has understandable." back and properly take anoth­punched or er look," he
Katherine Harris
marked his said on
Floridian Secretary of State
or her ballot N B C ' s 
win, and that is understand­able. The stakes are very high." 
Democratic vice-presidential nominee Joseph Lieberman said Sunday that Florida vote­counters should "take another look" at military absentee bal­lots that were thrown out on narrow technicalities. 
County canvassers disquali­fied 1,527 ballots from over­seas, many because they lacked the required postmark. But Lieberman said vote counters should "give the ben­efit of the doubt" to ballots coming in from military per­
sonnel gen­
erally. 
must take precedence over statutory deadlines, the constitutional construction of statutes, and the discretion and operative duties of executive officers," she wrote. 
"The Republicans, not to be outdone, are complaining about procedures for manual recounting and the sanctity of the machine tabulation," Harris wrote. "It is clear, that for the Democrats and the Republicans, the object is to 
"Meet the Press." 
Bush gained 1,380 votes to Al Gore's 750 from a count of the overseas absentee ballots, but supporters of the Texas governor complained that Democrats were trying to dis­qualify military ballots because they were more likely to favor the GOP. 
"They knew those votes pri­marily were Bush votes," said Sen. Fred Thompson, R­Tenn., on ABC's "This Week." 


memorial ma~~ in I1onor of llrionne Clary Rovember 20, 2000 

Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
5:15 p.m. Rev. Edward A. Malloy, c.s.c., presider 
Brione was aformer member of Welsh Family Hall and of the junior class. 
The mass is open to all students, faculty, and 
staff The support of the Notre Dame family at this service will mean agreat deal to the Clary 
family, who will be in attendance. You are all welcome and encouraged to attend.
C-M 
Campus Ministry 

The Observer . NEWS Monday, November 20, 2000 
Nuillbers 
continued from page I 
is uncertain how long this will 
remain so low. 
As the class sizes increase, 
the average faculty teaching 
load by college is being 
decreased. Malloy pointed to 
this decrease in course load 
per professor as one of the 
greatest variables in managing 
the increased enrollment. The 
administration is trying to com­
bat this offset, however. 
"In accordance with the col­
luquy document, the faculty 
has been increasing by 10 to 15 
members every year," Malloy 
said. "It is projected to contin­
ue to grow from here." 
The College of Arts and 
Letters has received most of 
the benefits of a larger faculty 
to aid in their attempts at low­
ering the number of courses 
taught by adjuncts. 
"In the fall of '97. 18 percent 
of classes were taught by 
adjuncts." Roche said. "That is 
too high for a school of Notre 
Dame's standing." 
By the fall of '98. that per­centage was reduced to nine and continued to drop over the following years. At the starl of this academic year, only seven percent of classes were headed by adjuncts. Ilowevcr, with the necessary increase in the num­ber of classes offered, the task at hand is still difficult, Roche added. 
Roche is hopeful that these problems will soon level out. Ile advocates "enrollment man­agement," a call to all depart­ments to have a minimal num­ber of students enrolled in higher level courses. Roche feels that urging the faculty to justify the numbers of enroll­ment in higher level courses will assure the availability of 


more professors to teach at the 
lower level. 
Meanwhile, in an effort to curb the rising rate of enroll­ment, the University is trying to develop "more precise figures," according to Malloy. "We're trying to push in the dynamic between the administration, financial aid and the registrar to tighten up the numbers within each class," he added. 
Malloy does not feel. howev­er, that this problem is specific to Notre Dame. 
"Every university is strug­gling with the same reality of an increase in the number of people wanting to attend col­lege," Malloy said. "We've done well compared to our peer institutions in paying attention to the undergraduate learning environment and keeping man­ageable class sizes a high pri­oritv," he concluded. 
There has been no talk of sig­nificantly increasing the size of the undergraduate student body. However, Riley does expect that the number of applicants will continue to rise over the coming years, as will the SAT and ACT scores of those applying. "We will con­tinue to try to pick the best of the best," he said. 
VIETNAM 
Clinton wraps up historic visit 
Associated Press 
HO CHI MINH CITY 

Concluding a historic visit, President Clinton urged this communist nation Sunday to open its economy and allow greater 
individual freedoms, saying the rewards of a free-mar­ket system "should be embraced. not feared." 


The first Clinton 
U.S. presi­dent to visit since the Vietnam War. Clinton declared, "The years of animosity are past. Today we have a shared inter­est in your well-being and your prosperity. We have a stake in your future and we wish to be your partners. We wish you success." 
After a two-day visit to Hanoi where he nurtured long-bitter U.S.•Vietnam relations and got the Communist Party's upbeat view of post-war Vietnam from the party's top leader, Clinton arrived in the city once known as Saigoffio cheers of thou­sands of people who lined the streets late at night. 
In the final hours of the pres­
ident's visit to the country, 
Cinton stopped at a shipping 
dock on the Saigon River. 
Under the shadow of two giant 
cranes, he spoke at a container 
terminal that is a joint venture 
between a Vietnamese state­
owned company and a multi­
national firm. 
Clinton said Vietnam's own government acknowledges that state-owned enterprises can­not create enough jobs for Vietnam, one of the poorest 
countries in the world with an average annual income of $372. "But Vietnam's young people have the talent and ideas to create the jobs of the future for themselves in a new era of entrepreneurship, inno­vation and competition. 
'That must be the future for Vietnam and its young people," the president told an audience of about 2,000 people in the midday heat. The United States and Vietnam signed a sweeping trade agreement this year that will force major economic reforms and allow generally unfettered commerce. Clinton said it would bring more investors here. 
"Both our nations should rati­fy this agreement and imple­ment it. The changes it will bring should be embraced, not feared," he said. Clinton promised that the United States would establish a $200 million line of credit to support U.S. investment in Vietnam. 
Earlier, Clinton plunged into crowds in a narrow shopping street, shaking hands and stop­ping at open-f'ront markets to buy last-minute gifts. To a gen­eration of American Gls. this bustling city of 5 million people was known as Saigon beforn its surrender to communist forces in America's most humiliating military defeat. 



ATION 
Monday, November 20, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

Austria avalanches kill 4 skiers: Two avalanches swept away groups of skiers at sep­arate resorts in the western province of Tyrol Sunday, killing four people, police and rescuers said. The first avalanche roared down a moun­tain at the ski resort of Obergurgl, 215 miles west of Vienna, killing three German skiers. Five members of the group, from a ski club from Mannheim, Germany, managed to free themselves from the snow. 
Queen's hunt angers animal groups: 
Queen Elizabeth II came under fire from animal rights activists Sunday after she was pho­tographed wringing the neck of a live pheasant with her bare hands during a royal shooting session. Press reports said a hunting dog picked up the wounded bird and carried it to the queen. "It was clearly the most effective and humane way of dispatching the injured bird," Buckingham Palace said in a statement. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Clinton library shaping up: In the hours before dawn, 50 tons of President Clinton's memorabilia were unloaded Sunday into an old auto dealership remodeled to store the country's largest presidential collection. The first shipment for the Clinton Presidential Library contained paintings, antiques, books, and gifts from the heads of state of foreign countries, said Skip Rutherford, coordinator of the privately funded $25 million project. 
Former editor dies: James Russell Wiggins, a former Washington Post editor who served briefly as ambassador to the United Nations, died Sunday at his home in eastern Maine. He was 96. Wiggins had retired to Maine, where he continued to work at the weekly newspaper he owned from 1966 to 1991 until his declining health forced him to stop in July. Defense Secretary William Cohen described Wiggins, his friend of 30 years, as "one of Maine's greatest assets." 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 

20-year old wins coroner election: 
At an age when many of his peers are studying for col1ege exams, 20-year-old John Brazzell is preparing to take over the reigns of an unlikely post: county coroner. Brazzell, who may be Indiana's youngest elected official, defeated Terry Gaff, a physician who had previously served as coroner, on Nov. 7, in the race for Noble County Coroner. During his campaign, the young Republican was dogged by com­plaints that he was riding on the name of his father, who has been coroner for eight years. 
Market Watch 11 /1 7 
Dow 

10,629.87 -26.16 

]ONES 
Composite
Same; Volume:

497 
NIA
• 

Nasdaq: 3027.19 -4.69 

S&P 500: 1367.72 -4.60 
TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE ORACLE CORI' (ORCL) +5.24 ,1.43 28.81 MICROSOFT CORP [MSFT) ,0.18 +0.12 (,9.06 NASDAQ 100 SHAR (QQQ) •0,06 ..0.04 72.RJ CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +J,30 + l.G8 52.75 NORTEL NETWORKS iNn ·LIO -0.37 34,06 
PERU 


j:t;;;..:--~-.•~i':"i<~·=-• ~ .;-...,:;. x-,~>~: ·: 
(:,.-::.-.:,,:•·( 
c_;.;,;.S-"fc~<~~ 
0•"·~1;~:, ~: 
' #~= 
~ -:«ti-·" 
, .... ··• .·. ,d 
. t))":I. v.~s.j~~/?.~ .. ·. 
N,...• ,•...··• 

AFP Photo Anti-Fujimori protesters demonstrate outside the Government Palace in Lima. Peruvian Prime Minister Federico Salas anounced Nov. 19 that President Alberto Fujlmori will resign by Nov. 21. 
President Fujimori to resign 
Associated Press 
LIMA 

President Alberto Fujimori, whose 10-year authoritarian rule has crumbled in recent months over corruption scandals, said in Tokyo early Monday that he would resign within 48 hours. 
Fujimori issued a brief written statement confirm­ing announcements made hours earlier in Peru by his prime minister and his sec­ond vice president. 
Second Vice President Ricardo Marquez said Fujimori, who has been in his ancestral homeland Japan since Friday, had asked him to step in as president until special elec­tions are held in April and a new leader takes office in July. 
The statement issued by Fujimori did not explain why he was stepping down. Prime Minister Federico Salas said the president would give his reasons when he presents his resig­nation to Congress on Monday or Tuesday. 
"What I know is that he does not want to be an obstacle to the process of democratization so that the next elections can be elec­tions absolutely transparent for the Peruvian people," Salas told radio station Radioprogramas. 
Fujimori refused to meet with a crowd of reporters who had gathered at his Tokyo hotel. A Peruvian embassy official, who refused to give his name, handed out a brief state­ment in Spanish confirming that the president would resign. 
"President Alberto Fujirnori confirmed ...that he is resigning as president," the statement said. "In the course of 48 hours, he is going to formalize the deci­sion with the newly elected president of the Congress." 
It was not immediately clear if Fujimori intended to go back to Peru to hand in his resignation. 
"We are all indignant with this attitude of the president. I urge him to return to the country. He has a moral obligation to the nation and must assume it," Marquez said at a news conference. 
Fujimori's ministers said they had decided to resign but would continue on until it was clear who was taking over the government. In a written statement, the min­isters expressed their "indignation" that Fujimori's announcement was "made outside the country in the context of a grave crisis and uncertainty about his return." 

Fire fore es ski resort evacuation 
Some guests complained of confu­reduced the amount of damage."
Associated Press 
sion during the evacuation. Gulick said he asked the Bureau of 

,t VAIL The blaze was quickly spotted by a Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms to Fire forced dozens of guests to flee crew that had gone to the hotel for a determine the cause of the fire their rooms at a ski resort during the medical emergency, said Fire Chief because his investigators were night and caused millions of dollars John Gulick. However, Vail had to exhausted. "We have not ruled out in damage as overwhelmed firefight­call in help from half a dozen depart­any cause or mechanical cause at ers were hampered by a frozen water ments as far away as 60 miles. this point," he said. standpipe. Damage was estimated at $20 mil­The 350-room, three-building No guests were reported injured by lion. hotel, which had opened for the ski the blaze that burned for six hours "We were overwhelmed by the season on Wednesday. was about 50 after breaking out late Saturday at fire," Gulick said. "The Vail Fire percent full. General manager David the Marriott Vail Mountain Resort. Department could not have handled it Shahriari said 116 rooms were lost to One firefighter was treated for heat alone. Had the east stairwell fire the blaze on the fifth and sixth floors exhaustion and another for smoke standpipe not been frozen, we could of one building, which housed 86 inhalation. have handled the fire quicker and guests before the fire. 
--------------~----------------------­

r---------------------­
page 6 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, November 20, 2000 
SPAIN 

Spaniards remember 25 years since Franco 
Associated Press 
MADnID 
Ile became Western Europe's longest reigning dictator this century, ruling Spain with an iron fist after unleashing one of the continent's bitterest civil 
wars. 
Twenty-five years after Gen. Francisco Franco's death, the small size of the gatherings at memorial ceremonies in and around Madrid this weekend was further testimony thal the vast majority of Spaniards have no desire to cherish his memo­ry. 
"Praised to ridiculous lengths during four decades, today his name pro­duces indiffer­people turned up at central Madrid's Oriente Plaza for an annual gathering held on the Sunday closest to Franco's anniversary. 

That rally went off without incident. but nearby, some 10 people were injured and five detained when police used batons and rubber bullets to break up an anti-Franco demonstration. 
In the first few vears after his death, the Fr~nco rallies attracted tens of thousands of people. But as the years rolled by and Spain shrugged off the near 40-year dictatorship to fully embrace democracy and free-market capitalism. the crowds shrank rapid­
ence or nega­"Ifonly we had another ly. This year,
tive senti­Franco and Spain could 
Spain seemed
ments among 

have that empire to take a dif­
80 percent of 

the popula­feeling again." ferent tack on the dictator's
tion, especially 
anniversary,the young," 

commemorative Mass 
seeing it more
the leading 
attendee 
as a reason to
daily El Pais 
wrote in an 
editorial Sunday. . 
The paper, like most others, published hefty supplements dealing with the anniversary, most centering on how better off the country is with Franco dead. 
In an opinion survey of 1,000 people carried out for El Pais, more than 80 percent felt the country had improved in nearly all aspects, except citizens' security -a reflection of increasing fears of rising crime and political violence in recent years. The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 3.2 per­centage points. 
But few as they may be, Franco still has his followers. 
"If only we had another Franco and Spain could have that empire feeling again," said one middle-aged man who joined some 5,000 people Saturday for a commemorative mass at the Valley of the Fallen, the awesome mausoleum Franco sculpted out of a moun­tainside near Madrid for his burial place. 
On Sunday, less than 2,000 celebrate the 

25-year reign of King Juan Carlos, who was crowned two days after Franco's death on Nov. 20, 1975, launching the country's return to democracy. 
In July 1936, Franco urged Spain's soldiers to revolt against the leftist democratic govern­ment, sparking the Spanish Civil War in which some 500,000 were killed. 
"El Caudillo," or 'the Supreme Leader,' as Franco liked to be called, followed up the victory in 1939 with 36 years of rigid authoritarianism and repres­sion. 
Workers and civil rights were greatly ignored while nationalist and cultural expression in the Basque, Catalan and Galician regions was brutally sup­pressed. 
Resistance was limited to a communist underground that fought until the early l 960s. Later, the Basque armed sepa­ratist group ETA took up arms in 1968, targeting security force members. 
ITALY 
Foreign-born princess dies at 78 
Associated Press 
ROME 

Princess Orietta Emily Mary Pogson Doria Pamphili, of a centuries-old noble family that counted a pope among its members and provided Rome with its biggest park, died Sunday in her Roman palace. She was 78. 
Mary Fort, who works for the family, said the prinress died after a long illness, which Fort didn't specify. 
Among the many activities of the princess was the adminis­tration of family holdings, including the Doria Pamphili Palace in ,Borne, home to a public pai1't.ing gallery with works by Titian, Caravaggio and Velazquez. The palace also hosts Rome's Anglican Center, which was visited last month by Queen Elizabeth II. 
During the queen's visit, tho princess received the honor of Order of the British Empire, according to a statement from the Doria Pamphili Palace announcing the death. 
Born in London in 1922, she was the daughter of Prince Filippo Andrea VI Doria Pamphili and Gesine Mary Dykes. Her family was strongly anti-fascist, and much of her youth she was edurnted abroad. 
After the war, the princess went to Ancona as a volunteer in a grouP. of Catholic women and met her husband, then a British naval officer, Frank Pogson. Upon their marriage in 1958, his surname was joined with that of his wife's family. 
Michigan CityOutlet Mal 1 bus trip 

departure point: Library Circle meeting time: 09:45am return time: 05:00pm mode: chartered buses toll: $2 


tickets: available at lafun info desk 11/20 


Here's Good News For You! 
Turtle Creek APartments 
~s Now. Tak1n1 Appl1ca11ons For 
The 200 I •2002 School-Year! 
Stop By The Lea5in1 Office· Today to Pick UpYour Informational Packett 
Turtle Creek Apartments "The Students' First Choice In Off Campus Housing" · 1710 Turtle Ureek Drive Phone:272-8124 
M-F 9am -6pm Sat 10am -5pm · 
"Located just east of the Notre Dame soccer field" 


Monday, November 20, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
ITALY 
INDIA 
Cease-fire honors 

Trains, graves disrupted by rain 

Associated Press 
ROME 
Heavy rains washed trains off the lines on Friday and uncovered corpses buried for nearly a century as Italy was hil by its lhird bout of rainstorms in a month. 
In Sicily. the engine and two carriages of the main­linc train to Milan were derailed by mud on the tracks. slightly injuring two people, police said. North of Naples, a local service engine also was derailed, but no one was hurt. 
In the northern coastal region of Liguria, streams of water washed away the earth and uncovered the dead in a cemetery in the village of Manarola. 
Dozens of corpses were left exposed and will have to be reburied once the rains stop, provincial officials said. 
"The earth cannot take this rain any longer," said Franco Bonanini, the head of parkland in Cinque Terre, a cluster of picturesque sea­side villages which includes Manarola. 
Five days of continuous 


rainstorms have swamped the north of the country with lakes Como and Maggiore overt1owing-and sending water gushing into Italy's major rivers. including its longest. the Po. 
Civil protection workers thL5 week evacuated more than 2,000 people from their homes in the northeast­ern region of Emilia-Romagna as floods engulfed scores of towns and villages. 
Sandbags were piled against the banks of the Po, which has strained 
leaving 25 people dead. 


With TIAA-CREF, you can receive:* 
• 
Cash withdrawals 


• 
Systematic or fixed-period payments** 

• 
Interest-only payments 

• 
Lifetime income payments** 

• 
A combination of these 


"Guaranteed by our claims-paying ability. 
CREFGROWTH ACCOUNT1 

CREF Gruwth is one of many CREF variable annuities. 
TIAA-CREF provides financial solutions to last a lifetime. 
Building your assets is one thing. Figuring out how those assets can provide you with a comfortable retirement is quite another. 
At TIAA-CREF, we can help you with both. You can count on us not only while you're saving and planning for retirement, but in retirement, too. 
Just call us. We'll show you how our flexible range of payout options can meet your retirement goals. 
With T1AA-CREF, you benefit from something few 
other companies can offer: a total commitment to 
your financial well-being, today and tomorrow. 
*Note: Availability may depend on your employer's retirement plan provisions contract. Under federal tax law, withdrawals prior to age 59½ may be subject to restrictions, and may also be subject to a 10% additional tax. Additional restrictions also apply to rhe TIAA Traditional Annuity 
under Islam's lunar calen­
dar, pious Muslims fast from sunrise to sunset. 
At the end of the holy month. the government would consider whether the cease-fire would be extended, Defense Minister George Fernandes said. 
There was no immediate response from guerrilla groups. 
India's government has been making symbolic ges­tures to the guerrillas while attempting to bring them into negotiations. In August, a weeklong cease­fire between the Hezb-ul Mujahedeen, the main Kashmir rebel group, and the government broke down in August when the guerrillas insisted on Pakistan's involvement in the peace talks -some­thing Delhi refuses. 
A dozen guerrilla groups are fighting a separatist war in the Indian-con­trolled part of Kashmir, demanding an indepen­dent state or a choice to join Pakistan. India's rival for five decades. 
PANAMA 
Castro praises capture of would-be assassin 
Associated P rcss 
PANAMA CITY, Panama 
Cuba and Venezuela are seek­ing the extradition of Luis Posada Carriles, a Cuban exile who Fidel Castro says planned to assassinate him during the weekend's Ibero-American Summit. 
"Viva Panama, the land where the most famous criminal in all the hemisphere has been cap­tured,'' Castro said to cheers from an audience of leftist stu­dents at the University of Panama late Saturday night. Castro announced that his gov­ernment has given Panama an official note requesting that Posada and three other men detained here on Friday be sent to Cuba. Under Cuban law, any­one born on the island is usually considered a Cuban citizen even if they adopt other nationality. 
At a news conference earlier, Panamanian Foreign minister Jose Miguel Aleman said Venezuelan officials also planned to request the extradi­tion of the Posada, who escaped in 1985 from a Venezuelan prison where he was awaiting trial on charges of bombing a Cuban jetliner. 
Castro also suggested that an international tribunal should be formed to try the men for crimes committed in numerous countries. 
None of the men had been charged as of Sunday and inves­tigators said they had not found the cache of arms that Castro claimed the exiles had brought into the country. Posada allegedly entered Panama under a false name, Francisco Rodriguez Mena. 
Heading from a copy of the Cuban note, Castro told the uni­versity audience that Cuba was accusing Posada of at least 16 terrorist acts. "It is not so many, but it is enough," he said, prompting laughter. 
The note accused Posada not only of the 197 6 jetliner bomb­ing in which 73 people died, but of a string of attacks on Cuban offices throughout Latin America in the mid-1970s. 
Posada was twice acquitted of the airline bombing, but Venezuelan prosecutors wanted to try him again. Two men accused of planting the bomb had said they worked for Posada and allegedly called him shortly after the attack. 
Posada has admitted arrang­ing the 1997 bombing of several hotels in Havana, the Cuban capital. A Salvadoran man was condemned to death for killing an Italian tourist in one of those attacks. 
The Miami Herald reported Sunday that two of the men detained along with Posada ­Pedro Remon, 56, and Guillermo Novo, 61 -were for­mer members of the defunct militant group called Omega 7. Both live in the Miami area. The other man was identified as Manuel Diaz. 
In February 1986. Remon pleaded guilty to participating in a 1979 bombing at Cuba's mis­sion to the United Nations and of conspiring to kill the Cuban ambassador. 
Novo's conviction in the 1976 murder of former Chilean diplo­mat Orlando Letelier in Washington, D.C.. was over­turned on appeal and he was acquitted in a second trial. 
Castro claimed Posada was working for the Miami-based Cuban-American National Foundation. which immediately denied any connection with Posada. 

VIEWPOINT 
OTHI: page 8 BSERVER Monday, November 20, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
l'.O. Box Q, Nocrc Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Tim Lane  
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR  O1'.l'lt.ATI0N~ MANAGl.'R  
Christine Kraly  Brian Kessler  

NF:Ws EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly Vn,wro1NT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith S<.:ENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARv'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EIJITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: !'at Peters AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINl~7'RATOR: Mike Gunville WEil ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner C0NTROl..l.ER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cudla1r 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGEk/GENEtw. lNf0..............631-7471 FAX ....................................................... 631-6927 
ADVERTISING.....................................63 !-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.... .. . . . . .. . ... .. .. .............631-4 542 MANAGING EmrnR/AssT. ME....................631--4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsncws. l@nd.edu VIEWJ>OJNT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoim. l@nd.edu SroRTS.......................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE........................................................ 631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SVSTIMSIWEB AnMINISfRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://ob,er1Jer.ndedu for daily updare.s ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-ro-1he 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rares of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published :ifrer 
!O meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by che students of rhe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Ma1y's College. Edicona! content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither insrirution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on conrent. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouragtd. Letters to the Editor musr be sign~d and must include rnntac, information. 
Qumions rtgardmg Obterver polici(t ,bo,&I br direct­ed to Erlitor i11 Chief Mik, Cmmolfy. 



Recently I've taken some heat from my Democratic friends about my last column three weeks ago, which predict­ed that George W. Bush would win the presidential race comfortably. I politely reminded them of my qualifying state­ment: "barring a colossal screwup or a massive 11th hour comeback by Gore." It's testament to how right I was that both happened and Gore still managed at best a tie. 
"Why a tie, Mike? He won the popular vote!" Yes, barely, but how did he accomplish it? 

Somehow, a quarter-century old expunged misdemeanor offense committed by George W. Bush was leaked to the press just five days before the election. 
Of course, Bush himself is to blame for not defusing the bomb before it was armed. And while there's no clear evi­dence that the Vice President or his staff had anything to do with the release, the timing was perfect. 
First, Gore had been losing in the character battle. In an instant, the bur­den of proof of character defense fell on Bush for something that happened 25 years ago. Al Gore's shady campaign schemes over the last eight years and his inventive knack for details over the last few weeks were forgotten. 
Second, with Bush's DUI occupying the news' front burner, Gore had a blank check to say whatever he felt like, and he cashed it. He mercilessly maligned George W. Bush on his expe­rience and intelligence. He blatantly distorted figures in Bush's platforms ... again. 
He used scare tactics on seniors, falsely claiming that the Bush Social Security plan "threatens current bene­fits." He told a primarily African­American audience that Bush's Supreme Court appointments would reenact the three-fifths clause. An 

NAACP-sponsored commercial aired 
which implied that Bush somehow 
"killed" James Byrd "all over again." 
Generally, Gore was only slightly more cordial than a claymation version of himself on a recent "Celebrity Deathmatch" that killed my buddy "Weird Al'' Yankovic by sucking his brain out through his eye socket. 
Then Gore got lucky: The networks' premature and wildly incorrect award­ing of Florida's 25 electoral votes to him on election night had all but sealed his victory -until they retracted it. But when they called it, polls hadn't yet closed in battleground states like Washington, New Mexico, Minnesota, Iowa, Wisconsin -even Florida itself. When they recanted, the polls had closed nearly everywhere. 
As the night wore on into early morn­ing, Bush's slight but significant lead in every one of those states -and in the nationwide popular vote -slowly dwindled. While it's impossible to tell whether the announcement that Gore had won Florida was the cause, it seems odd that the voting trends would suddenly spontaneously reverse after midnight. 
Now Gore and his cronies are back in Florida, demanding that the "will of the people" be satisfied. Carrying their unofficial and meaningless 200,000­vote "mandate" with them, they're making arbitrary demands based on nonsensical claims. 
First, they condemned the ballot in Palm Beach County, despite the facts that it was designed by a Democrat and approved by a bipartisan panel, and that copies of it were mailed to every registered voter and that Democratic officials even called voters reminding them that Gore's hole was three down, number five. 
They've claimed that 19,000 people were confused enough to double-punch the ballot, proof of its confusing design. So even though, say, primarily Republican Duval County (the Jacksonville metro area) has a little more than half the pnople of Palm Beach County but 26,000 disqualified ballots to Palm Beach's 19,000, only the votes in Palm Be.ach County should be recounted to "determine the intent" of the voters. But the results will more than likely only "determine the intent" of the counters. 
"Technicalities should not determine the presidency," says Gore campaign manager William Daley. But after the will of the people of Florida has shown three times that George W. Bush has won, his victory now hinges on Democratic bottom-level county elec­tion officials correctly determining the "technical" difference between a "swinging chad" and a "pregnant chad." 
There's a word for this kind of duplic­ity. The first five letters spell "bulls" but the last three don't spell "eye." 
If Al Gore were honestly concerned about "the will of the people" he'd begrudgingly honor the vote that has thrice shown that he has lost. If he cared in the least, he'd apply Florida law, which demands a recount when the margin of victory is less than one­half of one percent, to the whole nation, where his margin is less than one-quar­ter of one percent. But he might lose on larger recounts. So he focuses on Democratic strongholds, trying to squeeze every last vote he can and not · stopping until he wins. 
Vice President Al Gore has spent the last two weeks lying, scaring, race-bait­ing, bullying, bulls-uh ... eye-ing, and litigating. It's clear that he'll say or do -or sue for-:--anything to become President. 
And he might very well still succeed. 
Mike Marchand is an off-campus senior English major whose column appears every other Monday. He was shocked not to have received any let­ters ofopposition to his last column, so he would like to point irate Gore sup­porters to his e-mail address, Marchand.3@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­saril_lJ those of The Observer. 
DILBERT 
ALL MUSIC ON THE 
INTERNET SHOULD 
BE FREE. ARTIST5 COULD !"'\AKE MONEY FR.OM DIGITAL TIPS. 
GREAT IDEA. WE'LL 
;; ~ 
.., ~
DO THE SAME 
THING HERE WITH 
"' ~ 
:t
THE ENGINEERS. 
.... 
; 
<:, 
g 
~ 
Q 
0 
0 
111.:,..:;;;~---J -r 
SCOTT ADAMS 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"You can fool too many ofthe people too much ofthe lime. " 
James Thurber author 
HAVE YOU EVER 
NOTICED THAT MY IDEAS ~RE ONLY 
BRILLIANT WHEN APPLIED TO OTHER PEOPLE? 




IEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Monday, November 20, 2000 BSERVER page 9 
GUEST COLUMN LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Defending the Learning from the Electoral College Holocaust 
AMES, Iowa 

With the election a tangled legal mess and the popular vote winner possibly not the electoral vote winner, it might seem like a good idea to abolish the Electoral College. Well, it isn't. 
Democrat Vice President Al Gore seems to have won the popu­lar vote at this point, but his lead is narrow­ing by the day. And several million absentee Jocelyn Marcus ballots are still at large. 
Who's to say, once every absentee ballot has been tallied. that Republican Texas Iowa State Governor George W. Bush won't come out Dailyahead? 
Gore's highest popular vote lead was only a couple hundred thousand. Of more than 100 million ballots cast, that's nothing. In fact, Gore is less than 0.002 percent behind Bush. With a margin that tight, a nationwide automatic recount would be triggered in a popular vote-based system. There are enough problems keeping track of the votes in Florida; imagine if that chaos was multiplied across all 50 states and the District of Columbia. 
Bush has decided not to recount the votes in Iowa and proba­bly other states because without Florida he would need at least three more wins in the contested states to have an Electoral College victory. 
However, if the popular vote decided the election, Bush would probably recount all his strong states. since recounts tend to bring in additional votes in proportion to the original count. And Gore would then counter by demanding recounts in the states that supported him, including Iowa. 
The Electoral College system just makes sense. In America, we have senators elected by state and House members elected by state district; each state can create its own laws, so long as they're not in conflict with federal laws; states have their own senates, houses, judicial systems and executives. 
Presidential candidates are chosen by state delegates as determined by state caucuses. And if the Electoral College were to be abolished, the constitutional amendment would have to be ratified by two-thirds of states. 
Any ISU student or faculty or staff member who wanted to could have seen Bush or Gore in person. Gore had a rally on campus just a few days prior to Election Day; not long before then, Republican Vice Presidential candidate Dick Cheney attended a Cyclone football game. 
You can kiss all that goodbye if the Electoral College goes. 
Iowa currently accounts for 1.3 percent of the electoral votes. With an election this close, that's huge. But Core only won Iowa by about 3,000 votes. That's about O .00003 percent of the popu­lar vote. Even in a nail-biter like this election, such a small margin would not be worth either candidate's time. 
Why would any presidential candidate try to sway a couple thousand voters in Ames when he or she could be down in Los Angeles or New York City, accruing millions? · 
Contrary to popular belief, candidates do sleep occasionally. They have only a limited amount of time to make their mes­sages known to the masses. 1.3 percent of the deciding vote is worth battling over; 0.00003 percent is not. And in an election where a candidate wins Iowa by a larger margin, the candidate would likely win the popular vote by such a substantial margin that our votes would still be rendered insignificant. 
The number of electors per state is determined by the number of Senate members plus House members per state. Because the House of Representatives is determined according to population and the Senate is composed of two senators per state, the states are weighted so smaller states are worth more than they should be by population. 
That way, less-populated states can't be completely ignored by candidates, while larger states don't suffer. California, with 54 electoral votes, New York with 33, Texas with 32 and, obvi­ously, Florida with 25 are all still vital to a candidate's victory. While Los Angeles residents and New Yorkers would receive more visits without the Electoral College, candidates drop by those big cities often enough that every citizen can attend at least one rally. 
The Electoral College doesn't hurt our voting rights -it pre­serves our rights by giving residents of smaller states a chance to make a more informed decision. 
This column first appeared in Iowa State Universf..1/s newspa­per. Iowa State Daily. on Not•. 17, 2000, and is reprinted here courtesy ofU-WJRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
I attended the Washington Seminar over fall break, and had an incredible time making new friends and learning about international humani­tarian issues. During the trip we visited the Holocaust Museum and a lobbying group named Partners for Peace. The museum presented an honest and horrifying view of the atrocities com­mitted in Nazi Germany, while Partners for Peace made me aware of the discrimination Palestinians face in Israel. 
Upon returning to campus, I was appalled by the violent actions of the Israeli government towards Palestinians. Furthermore, I was even more surprised by the biased media reporting on the violence in Israel. 
When I visited the Holocaust Museum I was horrified by the Nazi's disregard for human life. From "medical experiments" like high pressure tests to the testing of wetsuit insulation by plac­ing prisoners in cold water baths until death, the disgust I felt was unbearable at times. Then we moved on to the scale model of the Auschwitz gas chambers. The display, showing the enormous scale of the killing, made me truly wonder how humans were capable of such barbarity. 
Looking at the current situation in Israel, I can­not understand how a Jewish government can justify the killing of hundreds of Palestinians. In the last month at least 126 Palestinians (35 per­cent under the age of 15) have been killed, while seven Israelis have died. The Jewish government of Israel supports this killing. Israel, formed as a place of refuge for Jews after World War II. is now involved in killing people based on their reli­gious background. How can Israel, after facing the horrors of the Holocaust, justify the killing of Palestinians? 
The media coverage of this has also been extremely biased in support of Israel. On Oct. 13, a Palestinian mob killed two Israeli soldiers in Ramallah. On the same day a U.S. destroyer was bombed off the coast of Yemen. The New York Times placed both events under the same head­line, leading one to connect the Palestinian mob with the bombing of the U.S. destroyer hundreds of miles away in Yemen. There was one sen­tence in the article saying that there was no proof of connection between the two incidents. This clearly seems like an attempt to attribute extra­neous attacks by terrorists to the Palestinians. 
In the same article there was a picture of Palestinian rioters with Israeli blood on their hands. The violence is not justifiable, but there have not been any graphic pictures of dead Palestinians gunned down by Israeli soldiers in the New York Times since that incident. The bias is clearly seen considering that over one hundred Palestinians have died since Oct. 13. A5 a result, we look at Palestinians as a rock-throwing mob and not as a civilized people. 
It seems that influential Jewish lobbying groups in Washington and Jewish control of several important media organizations have resulted in widespread support of Israel by the United States. How can our nation support this wide­spread killing of Palestinians when we so loudly denounce the cruelty of the Nazis during the Holocaust? As a people who claim to fight for equality and denounce discrimination, we should reconsider the $3 billion a year aid to Israel, which accounts for 20 percent of the annual Israeli budget. When we look at the horrors of the Holocaust we must say no to the continuance of Israeli violence based on religious differences. 
Luke Macaulay junior Zahm Hall Nov. 16,W00 

I'm writing to express my concern over what appears to be a growing "movement" on campus. It seems that at night a small group of environ­mentalists are going around the parking lots and placing bumper stickers on the tailgates of SUVs that say 'Tm changing the climate, ask me how!" This idea originates from a website that pro­motes this activity as a way of protesting what they perceive to be an environmental threat. 
This action, however, is not the act of civil dis­obedience that this site makes it out to be. It is vandalism and nothing more. I fully support peo­ple's right to protest whatever they feel like, but nobody has the right to inflict damage upon oth­ers property just because they disagree with their choice of transportation. And for the record, I am not just a peeved victim; my SUV remains to be tagged. 
This anti-SUV sticker movement is just one of many witbi.n the environmentalist community that is troublesome to myself as well as many others (including, apparently, the FBI) as extrem­ism is becoming more and more commonplace. Acts of vandalism, property destruction and even violence (an example of which is tree-spiking which can injure or even kill loggers who are just trying to do their jobs) are not only preached, but carried out by organizations such as Earth First and the Animal Liberation Front (who burned down that multi-million dollar ski lodge in Aspen a few years ago). While these eco-terrorist groups remain on the fringe, some of their ideas and methods are starting to go mainstream. 
So what I ask of these "taggers" is that, instead of going to radical and destructive methods of protest. you simply make your positions known in a more civilized manner. I think you'll find that if you open up a discussion on the matter and allow for some good debate, people will be less likely to dismiss your group and its ideas as the whims of a bunch oftree-huggers (believe me, that is pret­ty much what all owners of the defiled SUVs think now). I also ask that if you insist on contin­uing "tagging" SlNs, please put the stickers on the bumpers. and not the paint. They are easier to remove and do less damage there. Thank you. 
Brian Malin junior O'Neill Hall Nov. 19, 2000 


More than meets the eye 
I have many things to be thankful for this Thanksgiving. But more than anything else, I am thankful for the Transformers movie coming out on DVD. 
The movie is not only a trip back to 198 7; it is full of action that makes one want to conquer the world. Iguarantee you will feel 
your childhood energon cubes fully recharge. Nothing will bring you back to life like playing air guitar to the Transformer theme song written and performed by Wolf (one of the greatest '80s hair bands). 
Iremember the shows that I watched and how they shaped me into the person who I am today. They taught me many of the life lessons on which I base my day-to-day deci­sions. Optlmus Prime and the other auto-bots trained me to adapt as a youngster and not to disassemble my friends. And when there is a greater evil present. cooperation is extremely important. 
Ishould aLc;o never give up. no matter how high the odds are stacked against me. For those of you who aren't still embar­rassed to play with plastic robot toys, 

Scott Little 
just a little 

Transformers still live on in the form of Beast Wars and Beast 
Machines. Led by Optimus Primal. the Maximals battle Megatron 
and tim Prcdicons. 

Here is a short quiz to refresh and reboost your Transformer IQ: 
Questions 

1-In what season did the Dinobots appear on the show'? 
2-Who is the chosen one, the only one who can unlock the 
power of the matrix? 

3-When does Optimus Prime get back the matrix? 
4-Why did the Autobots come to Earth and what city did they 
build there? 

5-What year far. far in the future did the Transformers movie 
take place in? 
Answers 
1-Season 1/Episode 8 

2-Hot Rod (Judd Nelson), later known as Rodimus Prime 
3-Season 3/Episode 30. He gets it back from Rodimus to save 
all the autobots and Galvatron from a deadly infection. 
4-They crash-landed after being attacked by Decepticons in a 
meteor shower/ Cybertron. 
5-2005 
SAVED BY THE BELL 

It seems that everyone watched this show. Girls got more attached though. knowing every episode as if they were the ones dating Zach and laughing at Screech when their buddy AC stuffed him in a locker. 
The show struck something in all of us. There was a character that we could all associate with in one way or another. Even more than that, the show let us laugh at our problems. It showed us how to be a friend and taught us how tu start finding our true identity. We are "The Bayside Generation." 
After the gang graduated, Saved by the Bell lived on in two forms. It was hard for all ofus, but deep down we all sort of knew that it was time to move on. Unfortunately, the creators ofthe show made, "Saved by the Bell: The College Years" which was horrible. 
ff that wasn't enough, while "The College Years" was running, another show called "The New Class" ran for a while too, but nobody cared about these new people. It just wasn't the same. 
Here is a quick Saved by the Bell quiz that is mostly for girls: 
Questions 

1-What is the name of the girl who joins the wrestling team in 11th grade? 2-In one episode there was a date auction held. What was the auction for? And why did no one bid on Slater? 
3-Why couldn't Kelly go to the prom with Zach in 10th grade? 
4-Who won the "Miss Bayside" Contest? 

5-What is Mr. Belding's brother's name and why didn't he take the class on the whitewater rafting trip? G-What is the name of the play that Zach and Jessie star in that forces them to question their feelings for each other? 
7-What big choice does Slater have to make before graduating? 
8-How many missing credits threaten Zach's graduation from Bayside'? 
Answers 

l-Krystce 2-New cheerleading uniforms; Zach spread a rumor around the school that he beat up Screech 3-Money was too tight. Kelly's dad lost his job. (Thls is the episode of Kelly and Zach's first kiss). 
4-Screech 

5-Rod; He met a pretty airline stewardess. 
6-Snow White and the Seven Dorks 

7-Whether to go to ROTC college or to pursue a wrestling schol­arship. 
8-One (he works it out with Mr. Belding). 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Around the 

Notre Dame and Saint Marys offer several 
By MARIBEL MOREY 
Scene Writer 
Thirty-four Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students ven­tured off to see the world of East Asia through Saint Mary's "Semester Around the World" program. 
"Lots of people in Notre Dame want to go to London or Austria, but his is something a little different," said Chris Casado, a Notre Dame senior majoring in Government and Chinese. 
ln just one semester, these students experienced a crash course in world cultures. an experience th&t many of these students will never forget. "I don't think I will ever have so much fun again," said Karen Wiener. a Notre Dame senior majoring in psychology and sociology. 
In "Semester around the World," students fly from Los Angeles to Tokyo in late August. After a few days in Tokyo, they continue with vis-. its to several other countries in the Orient. This includes South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Philippines, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, Vietnam, Thailand and Mainland China. Students mostly get an overview of each country since their stays in each loca­tion are limited to only a few days. 
This followed by a nine­week stay in the southern tip of India. Academics are con­centrated in Cochin, India, on the campus of Sacred Heart College where students live in apartments with only a ten­minute walk from the cam­pus. 
After their extended stay in India, students have the option to return home or con­tinue to Western Europe. Last semester, students were flown 
to Zurich, Switzerland and if they wished. could continue to other destinations such as Paris and London. 
Why go? 
Casado was one of the 34 students who went on this program last fall. As a Government and Chinese Language major, Casado is inter­ested in the expanding the influence of East Asia. but Notre Dame did not have a program in China his junior year. 
This program was the next best thing and turned out to be an amazing experience. "It's the greatest possi­ble experience. At first, I wasn't sure about India; I was interested in China-Eastern Asia," said Casado, "Now India is my favorite and if I could 
go back now I'd go back in a second." 

Students climb a sundial on top of an o the world. 
The experience began in late August when the group flew from L.A. to Tokyo on Singapore airlines. They· arrived in Tokyu at night and experienced jet lag, so they simply walked the streets of the trendy part of Tokyo. 
"The women had bleached blonde hair with high plat­forms and talking on cell phones-kinda like a Times Square atmosphere," said Casado. "It was a packed city as far as you can see. Almost every building seemed to be 5-15 stories." 
Later, on their visit to China, many students were surprised at the extent of this country's development, said Casado. "You think commu­nist country, but you do not know the extent that the 
change is true," said Casado. "All the buildings are futuris­tic. Every building over six to seven stories was built in the last nine years." 
Away from the bustling cen­ter of Beijing, students also spent three days in a beach resort in Malaysia. 
While jumping from city to city, Casado is apprehensive to say, "You can't jump to conclusions too quickly because when you do, you don't get the whole picture, the accurate picture." He con­tinued, "I don't know the underlying culture of Japan because I was only there for four days and it was a quick exposure." 
But in the small amount of 
time in one semester, Casado 
was able to experience so 
many cultures. " People [in 
the program] just want to see 
the world and make a differ­
ence someday," he said. 
Being a tourist 
"The very first days we would go through the tourist routine, then we would take it to the next step and meet with government and reli­gious officials," said Casado . These a.re all-important things to do, but the quick visits would only give a superficial gloss to the cul­ture of the countries. ''You travel so much so quickly that it can wear on you," said Casado. But the best part of the trip fur Casado was his stay in Vietnam and India. Wiener agrees. 
India and Vietnam 
Pew Americans have been back to Vietnam since the Vietnam War, which made Casado appreciate the expe­rience even more. Just simply 




NSIDER 
O
THE 

Monday, November 20, 2000 BSERVER Notre Dame at Rutgers 

Third quarter flurry leads Irish to win 
Jersey boys turn Rutgers turnovers into 45-17 victory on the road 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associate Sports Editor 

PISCATAWAY, N.J. 
For two-and-a-half quarters, Rutgers fans perched on the edge of their seats as their underdog team contended with the Irish. Then the Scarlet Knights handed the game to the Irish, and the sea of red turned into a band of blue and gold. 
The Scarlet Knights came close to knot­ting the score in the third quarter before the Irish capitalized on a batch of Scarlet Knights mistakes to win 45-17. 
Rutgers tailback Dennis Thomas dashed for the longest run of his career, a 65-yard touchdown, narrowing the Notre Dame lead to 24-17. On the ensuing Irish possession, a Matt Lovecchio pass landed squarely in the hands of Rutgers defen­sive back Tony Berry, giving Rutgers a chance to take control, but Berry dropped the ball. 
"From where I was, I thought he had intercepted it, and I had already flipped back and gone to defense," Irish head coach Bob Davie said. "I thought he had it and was running down the sidelines. That was a huge play. If they would have intercepted that ball, it could have been a different game." 
Notre Dame soon began to gather steam. 
The Irish forced the Scarlet Knights into punting on their next drive, and David Givens blocked Rutgers' Mike Barr punt with the recovery by Notre Dame's Chad DeBolt. Notre Dame took over at the Rutgers 31-yard line, and a six-yard Tony Fisher run set up a 25-yard touch­down pass from LoVecchio to Javin Hunter and a 31-17 Irish advantage. 
"½'hen it was 31-17, a few guys looked up at the scoreboard and said, 'Man, it's starting to get out of hand,"' Thomas said of the Scarlet Knights. "A fraction of the team started to not execute their plays. We couldn't afford that." 
Rutgers only held onto the ball for seven seconds, before Notre Dame defen­sive tackle Anthony Weaver forced quar­
pass to Josh Hobbs that was caught mid­with a Steve Barone 30-yard field goal, worthy for most of the game. 
terback Mike McMahon to fumble the way there by Irish safety Ron Israel of the first points ever scored by the Scarlet The Irish struggled with penalties, com­pigskin. Irish defensive end Ryan Roberts Lawnside, N.J. Knights against the Irish. mitting 12 for 120 yards. 
dove on the ball to put Notre Dame back This go-round, the Irish failed to con­Notre Dame answered with a 43-yard "Those are mental errors that we have on offense at the Rutgers 18-yard line. 
vert as Nick Setta's 41-yard field goal touchdown pass from LoVecchio to senior to correct," Lovecchio said. "Those areAlready in the red zone, a couple Jersey attempt fell short. wide receiver Joey Getherall. The Irish easy things to correct. You've just got to' boys stuck it to their home state school. 
Rutgers' next possession again ended in came back at the Knights with a faked buckle down and stay focused until theGarden State native Terrance Howard disaster, as Notre Dame's Vontez Duff field goal that kicker Nick Setta tossed 25 end of the game." 
carried three times on the drive, includ­picked off McMahon. That interception yards to Tom Lopienski for a 14-3 Irish Rutgers, meanwhile, looked better than ing a two-yard touchdown run to give marked the third straight Rutgers posses­lead. its record until midway through the thirdNotre Dame a 38-17 lead. LoVecchio had sion to end in a turnover, in addition to Rutgers' Thomas turned in a one-yard quarter. It was fighting for its 13 seniors .
the only other carry on the drive, a three­the blocked punt and missed interception. touchdown run to narrow the gap early and soon-to-resign head coach Terryyard run. 
The Irish got one more touchdown on a in the second quarter. But Notre Dame Shea to win their final home game, and it "1 think we have proved that, during 12-play, 80-yard drive sparked by a 35-opened things up again on a 33-yard showed -for awhile.
the past weeks, that we have thrne talent­yard run by LoVecchio. Fisher, who Setta field goal and a one-yard Howard But the Irish won out, leading to the
ed running backs that can make big 
rushed for 135 yards in his second touchdown run. third ti.me in five years that they'll closeplays," Howard said. 
straight leD-yard performance, found the Despite the final 28-point margin of vic­out their season in Southern CaliforniaForty-one seconds later, Rutgers again end zone on a two-yard run. tory, Notre Dame didn't look like a school trying to hold off the Trojans to secure ahanded over the ball. McMahon sent a In the first half, Rutgers struck first trying to convince pollsters it was BCS-major bowl game. 



player of the game  quote of the game  stat of the game  
Matt Lovecchio  "/ was glad to get out of  Three third quarter Rutgers turnovers  
The freshman quarterback was the picture ofcomposure in his home  here with a win and to come out 8-2."  Notre Dame got momentum after Rutgers gave the ball up on three  
state, completing r3-of-I9 passes  straight drives. The turnovers came  
for I 6I  yards, two touchdowns and  Bob Davie  on the heels ofa blocked punt and  
a perfect 6-o record.  Irish head coach  missed interception.  

Monday, November 20, 2000

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
report card 
A-
quarterbacks: LoVecchio completed 
over 65 percent ofhis attempts and 
passedfor 161 yards. He also rushed for 79 yards. 
running backs: It's been an interesting
8+ 
year for Fisher and Howard. But the 
roommates have formed a formida­ble duo in Jones·s absence. They combined for 204 yards. 
receivers: Getherall was wide-open on 
8-
the jirst quarter touchdown catch. 
Hunter faked the defender and ran untouchedfor his score in the third quarter. Receivers caught only 7 pass­es 
8+ 
offensive line: Irish rw;hedfor 295 yards and al/eraged nearly 5 yards per carry. 
8-
delensive line: Weaver forced a Jumble and Roberts recol/ered a pair. Thomas rushed/or a career-high 127 
yards. Struggled at times. 

linebackers: Denman (2 tackles) and 
Boiman (2 tackles) played their worst game (statistically) ofthe year. 
8-
defensive backs: Losing Walton hurts. Duff. who was recruited as a running back. and Dykes played pretty well in Walton's absence. Not a good 
defensive effort when 3 of4 leading tacklers (Israel, Beckstrom and Driver) were in the secondary. 
special teams: Miller replaced McNew8+ for one kickoff. the kickoff returners averaged only 10 yards per return and punt return was almost non­existent. The Jake field goal and blocked punt were both highlights. 
B coaching: Davie's taking more 
chances but team looked sluggish. But they're 8-2 and maybe BCS­bound. overall: USC denied the Irish a major bowl in '96 and '98. IfNotre Dame plays like it 
2.97 

did in the first 2 .5 quarters, 
it could be a long flight 
home from LA. 

adding up the numbers 
career interceptions by Rutgers' quarterback Mike 

51
McMahon, a school record 

number of turnovers on consecu­tive Rutgers drives following a blocked punt by David Givens 
number of rushing yards by 

135 
Tony Fisher after gaining 196 yards against Boston College 

17 
total points scored by Rutgers Saturday, the only points every 
scored by the Knights against the Irish 
number of Rutgers turnovers 

5 
on 3 interceptions and 2 fum­bles 

attendance at Rutgers Stadium
40,011 

Saturday, the second largest crowd ever 
estimated number of Rutgers 

17 
fans remaining in Rutgers Stadium when the game ended 
INSIGHT 


PISCATAWAY, NJ 
It was one of those moments defenders in the secondary play for. 
The timing was perfect and as Irish quarterback Matt LoVecchio's pass attempt to 
tight end Dan O'Leary sailed through the air, Scarlet Knight cornerback Tony Berry stepped in its path. 
He felt the 


ball in his Kerry Smith hands and thought about Sports Editor 
the wide open field heading ' 

toward the end zone. 
Not so fast. 

Bobbling the ball for five yards, Berry's plan to tie the game at 24 with a trip to the end zone slipped away like the ball from his hands. 
Forget touchdown -talk about letdown. 
"You have to have that play," Knight head coach Terry Shea said. "The emotion of the game changed so drastically and so quickly [on that play]." 
Berry's inability to capitalize on an opportunity typified the prob­lem Saturday with Rutgers foot­ball. 
Great teams have playmakers and dazzling athleticism; good teams make do with what they can get and take advantage of their opponents· mistakes. The 3-7 Knights showed a split-second of great and two quarters of good. They had every opportunity to take the No. 11 Irish down to the wire and they squandered them all in the second half, suffering a miser­able 45-17 defeat. 
For two quarters, the Knights put on their armor for battle, never letting the Irish get out of striking distance. In just four quick min­utes, they did what Rutgers teams before them had failed to do -not only score against the Irish but actually hold a lead in the game. 
But for all the emotion tied to the 
Knights last home game, they 
could only play over their heads 
for so long. 
"We were right in the mix of things and during halftime we defi­nitely felt like we could come back," defensive back Garret Shea said. "But they made the plays when they had to make them. Good teams find a way to do that." 
But for the Knights, great turned to good and good turned to mediocre. And before the last sec­onds ticked off the clock and almost every single Rutgers fan evacuated the stadium, mediocre turned to downright had. 
When a team cannot even keep their fans in the stadium on the seniors' farewell game and the head coach's final game, it is glar­ing evidence of a program gone awry. 
Not even the Rutgers' student section, which in the first two quarters displayed half-naked men in freezing temperatures baring the cold as their counterparts bore the heat on the field. could he con­vinced that their team was worthy of' their attention for a minute passed the opening drive of the fourth quarter. 
Talk about letdown. 
"In the second half the game fell through our hands, literally." said Terry Shea. 
The Knights game plan fell through and fell hard. After two quarters of surprising­ly tough play, the Knights came out 
of the locker room revved up, scor­iQg in the third quarter on a 65­yard touchdown run by Dennis Thomas to cut Notre Dame's lead to 24-17. 
On the very next drive, Berry could have tied it up but did not. 
On the following four plays the Knight offense could have made it close but did not. 
Four drives equaling four turnovers spelled defeat for the Knights -a defeat they could have avoided. 
It was not so much that the Irish turned up the heat on defense as it was that the Knight offense col­lapsed. 
The Irish were sloppy -far too sloppy for a nationally ranked team -and left t 'mselves wide open for an upset. 
"We certainly d' 1 not play our best game." Iris!. Ld coach Bob Davie said. "We were sloppy and just played a sloppy kind of game. I'm just glad to get out of here with a win." 
Glad to get out with a win because without a few missed Rutgers opportunities momentum would have swung the way of the Knights and the Irish would have been faced with a whole different ball game. 
Would have. Could have. Should have. 
"They're America's team but we practice all week just like they do." Rutgers running back Dennis Thomas said. 
Rutgers might practice, but they do not execute. And that makes all the differ­ence. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Monday, November 20, 2000 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Ne"W Jersey natives put on homecoming show for Irish 

By TIM CASEY 

Assistant Sports Edimr 
PISCATAWAY, NJ 
Along the red-painted wall in the closed end zone at Rutgers Stadium. which separates the field from the metal stands. there's a slogan. lt reads: "Rutgers...Thc Birthplace of College Football." 
That's not a misprint. 
On Nov. 6, 1869, Rutgers defeated Princeton 6-4 in New Brunswick, N.J .. in tho first col­lege football game ever played. 
One hundred and thirty-one years and 12 days later, four of New Jersey's native sons helped Notre Dame defeat their state university 45-14 in front of only the second sold-out crowd in stadium history. 
"They played well," coach Bob Davie said of lhe four New .Jersey natives who played roles in the win. "Particularly the quarterback. He's an amazing guy." 
For the sixth straight game, Matt Lovecchio proved to be the most improbable story in an unexpected season. 
The Franklin Lakes resident's statistics (13-of-19 passes for 161 yards and two touchdowns and no interceptions plus 79 yards rushing) were again solid but LoVecchio's confidence and intangibles are what separate the 6-foot-3, 200-pounder from a normal 18-year-old. 
Focus on one moment, during the middle of his press confer­ence. A reporter asked Lovecchio what he thought when he threw a near-intercep­tion to defensive back Tony Berry in the third quarter. If Berry held onto the ball, he would have had a clear path to the end zone and tied the game at 24-24. 
"l had an angle on him," Lovecchio said. "I was antici­pating him catching the ball and trying to make a tackle and push him out of bounds." 
Before the game, Davie pon­dered using some motivational techniques in case his team ove_rlooked the 3-6 Scarlet Knights. 
"I thought of putting mouse traps by their locker and saying 
1 
2' 3 
4 
5 
6'<i--' 
7·, 
8. 
9 
10, 

we're going into a trap," Davie said. "I talked about calling it a sandwich game. When you play a night game at Notre Dame Stadium (against Boston College) with 80,000 people and the atmosphere the way it was and then going to SC. I knew this was a difficult game for us." 
When questioned on the pos­sibility of the Irish setting their sights on USC, LoVecchio claimed he has approached the season "week by week" and "one game at a time." But at least one teammate, also a Jersey guy, offered a different view than LoVecchio's clictie responses. 
"You see light at the end of the tunnel a lot more now," said running back Terrance Howard, a native of Willingboro. "You try to look and say Rutgers isn't so good and you've got USC at USC. So you kind of look ahead a little bit." 
Howard, who thought of leav­ing Notre Dame earlier in the season due to limited playing time, turned in one of his best performances of the year. The junior gained 69 yards on 16 carries and had two touchdown runs. His one-yard score with 19 seconds left in the first half gave the Irish a 24-10 lead. 
He also played a major role in a third Irish touchdown drive.. Ten minutes into the game, Notre Dame faced a 4th and 3 on its 39-yard line. LoVecchio completed a shovel pass to Howard, who eluded tacklers and gained 12 yards. Four plays later, on a fake field goal, Nick Setta found a wide-open Tom Lopienski for a touchdown for a 14-3 margin. 
"A lot of friends and my fami­ly don't get a chance to come out to South Bend and see me play," Howard said. "It feels great." 
The Notre Dame-New Jersey connection was not limited to the offense. Safety Ron lstael and defensive end Ryan Roberts, both from Lawnside, sparked an improved unit. Israel tied for the team-high with eight tackles and inter­cepted a Mike McMahon pass with 4:30 minutes left in the third quarter. 

broke his right forearm in the first quarter}, overshadowed the homecoming. 
Without Walton, the Irish allowed 17 5 yards through the air and struggled at times against a quick, aggressive offense. 
"Anytime you're not given a chance to huddle up, it's defi­nitely an advantage to the offense," Israel said. "Their offense didn't give us as many opportunities to blitz as nor­mal." 
This weekend, another pass­ing offense will challenge the depleted secondary. USC quar­terback Carson Palmer has completed over 55 percent of his passes for 2663 yards, including 350 in Saturday's 38­35 win over UCLA. 
Yet regardless of the outcome against the Trojans, at least one of Davie's post-Rutgers com­ments will remain the same. 
"We'd like to come back (to New Jersey)," Davie said. "and get some more (players)." 

Since replacing Grant Irons in the Nebraska game, Roberts has been on a tear. He recov­ered two fumbles on Saturday while also recording four tack­les. 
Linebacker Anthony Brannan, a Cedar Grove native and defen­sive tackle Jim Molinaro, from nearby Bethlehem, Penn., also played in front of several friends and family members. 
But on this mid-November day, the season-ending injury to cornerback Shane Walton, (who 
scoring summary & stats 
scoring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 
Notre Dame 14 10 14 7 45 Rutgers 3 7 7 0 17 
team statistics ND RU first downs 22 17 rushes-yards 60-295 30-174 passing-yards 186 175 comp-att-int 14-20-0 13-28-3 return yards 43 120 punts-yards 4-137 3-85 fumbles-lost 3-1 3-2 penalties-yards 12-120 5-50 time ofpossession 38:30 21:30 
individual statistics 

passing ND -Lovecchio 13-19·0 RU -McMahon 13-28-3 
Sella 1-1·0 
rushing 

ND -Fisher 27-135, LoVecchlo 12-79, Howard 16-69, Getherall 1-24, Loplenski 1-3, Yura 1-(-6), Givens 1-(-8) RU -Thomas 21-127, McMahon 8-40, Stringer 8-40 
receiving 

ND -Hunter 3-43, Howard 3-22, Getherall 2-53, Givens 2·25, 
Fisher 2-11, Lopienski 1-25, O'Leary 1-7 RU -Johnson 3-59, Smith 3·35, Thomas 3·25, Hobbs 2-28, 
Martin 1-24, Stringer 1-4 
leading tackles 

ND -Israel B, Beckstrom 5, Roberts 4, Driver 4, Sarb 3 RU -White 10, Robertson 9, Tulloch 8, Berry 7, Heggie 7, Haw, 7 
scoring 
summary 
1st 
RU· 11:07 
FG Barone 30 yd., 3-0 
ND-8:08 Getherall 43-yd. pass from Lovecchio. Sella kick, 7-3 
ND· 3:14 Loplanskl Z5-yd. pan from LoVecchio. Salta kick, 14-3 
2nd 
RU-13:44 
Thomas 1-yd. run Barone kick, 10-14 ND. FG Salta 33 yd., 17-10 ND. 0:19 
Howard 1-yd. run Sella kick, 24-10 
3rd 
RIJ -14:06 Thomas 65-yd. run Barone kick, 17-24 
NIJ. 6:52 Hunter 25-yd. pass from Lovecchio Satta kick, 31-17 
ND. 5:10 Howard 2-yd, run Setta kick, 38-17 
4th 
ND-4:37 Fisher 2-yd.-run Setta kick. 45-17 


~HE Norre Dame at Rutgers vnSERVER Monday, November 20, 2000 

Irish strong safety Ron Israel (5) intercepts a pass from Rutgers quarterback Mike McMahon as Scarlet Knights receiver Aaron Martin (82) looks on. It was a return to high school days in more than one way for Israel, who played receiver at Haddon Heights High School in New Jersey. 
A LITTLE GIVE AND TAKE 

The Irish were 
happy' to accept when the Scarlet Knights offered to hand over the ball multiple times during the game, vir­tually assuring Notre Dame a victory. Notre Dame's offensive pro­duction didn't hurt in the process. Jabari Holloway returned the goodwill by bringing an opponent back to 
· his feet. 
. 
Photos by 
JOSE CUELLAR 

Senior wide receiver Joey Getherall (18) prepares to catch a touchdown pass from Irish quarterback Matt Lovecchio {rear). Lovecchio threw two touchdown passes. 


Monday, November 20, 2000 page 11 
orld in a semester 

to have been there. "Vietnam was a really cool experience -with the war memorial museum. Especially with the history and relationship that it has with the United States," he said. 
Although Vietnam was an amazing experience, Casado could not stop talking about India. 
"India is a country you learn to love," Casado said. "That's the place that's most unlike the U.S. It's the most different experience." 
Even though the United States had an impact in Vietnam, Casado found him­self as a minority in East Asia. 
"India is the one place you get to learn and live the cul­ture and experience Hinduism, Islam and what [religion] means to people," said Casado . They did not bask in a beach resort as they had done in Malaysia, nor were they traveling as tourists trying to grasp every inch of East Asian knowl­edge. 
"Since we were in a country for such a short period of time, we wanted to see the most exciting parts," said Wiener." In India, we were able to settle down and not be tourists for once." 
This time they had to live in the culture and really experi­ence Indian life -and they were the outsiders, the minorities. 
Some of the Indians in Southern India had never seen white people before and would just stare at them. 
"When the bus would stop during a tour, people would literally line up on both sides and watch us," he said. But most of all, the group found that the Indians didn't have much and were willing to give them anything to make them feel welcomed and loved. 
T h c y 
spent two 
weekends 
with fami­
lies. but 
spent the 
rest of the 
time in 
their own 
apart­
ments. 
E v e n 
though 
they could 
not speak 
English, 
language 
was not a 
barrier. 
" T h e y 
didn't 
s p e a k 
English, 
but we 
C O U l d 
communi­
cate just 
fin e ­
smiling 

and ges­tures," he said. 
The natives were much more welcoming than they expected. "They didn't have anything, but would give you anything to make you feel welcomed and loved," said Casado. 
Casado and some other Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students would make the ten­minute walk from their apartments to the Sacred Heart College in the morning. "When we walked to school every day, we knew pretty much everyone on our way," he said. 
However, since women were not allowed to walk on the streets after sundown, many of the female students stayed indoors at night. "It was hard for the girls. But it's just the way India is. You abide by the way they live," he said. "Girls don't wear tank tops either." 
But Wiener herself felt uneasy after being harassed at a movie theatre. 
"Only occasionally, I had a feeling of uneasiness. just walking around alone. We would walk in groups instead," she said. 
This program, like many other study abroad programs, brings us closer to another world in order to embrace and question our cultural dif­ferences. 
The whole experience makes both groups think of their own cultures and recog­nize the strong points. And in a way, question you as a per­son, and can question the way you live your life and question the way they live their life," said Casado. 
"[This program] was absolutely phenomenal," said Wiener." I can't imagine any­one going on this program and not enjoying it." 
Other options 
So what if you still want to experience something amaz­ing, but you don't think rid­ing an elephant or seeing the Great Wall of China or even climbing the Himalayas is something you would really enjoy'? Does a corner cafe in a piazza sound better? Or perhaps you would rather intern with the Members of Parliament in London? 
There are vast oppor"tuni­tics for international experi­ence in Notre Dame. Notre Dame has a semester-long program in its own campus in Freemantle, Australia where students live in a hotel-like facility, with rectors, resident assistants and all. 
Or maybe a junior year semester in London seems more like it. Classes are located near Trafalgar Square, in the heart of London. Students reside in flats located near Marble Arch, just north Oxford Street. Like Australia, the London program has a resi­dence staff. 
Okay, so maybe you're tired of speaking English and "oui, oui" is more like it. Angers is the program for you then. Angers is a medium-sized town west of Paris and in just a two hour train ride; you can travel between these two cities. 
The university in Angers is for international students learning French, so you have the opportunity to meet peo­ple from all over the world. 
Or perhaps you enjoy Spanish more. You can either go to Chile, Mexico or Spain for a year or a semester. In Mexico, Notre Dame has pro­grams in Monterrey, Xalapa and Puebla. Although the programs in Puebla and Monterrey are well estab­lished, the Xalapa program is still in development. 
The Puebla program is open to students of all col­l e g e s 
students in the Dublin pro­gram live in dormitories, with Irish and international stu­dents and can make their own meals. Students can take courses at Keough-Notre Dame Study Center in Dublin and at the Republic of Ireland' s best universities ­either University College Dublin or Trinity College Dublin. 
For those who speak Japanese, there is a program in Nagoya. Students live with a family and have dinner and breakfast with them, but the University provides lunch. 
The university overlooks Nagoya, which is known as "the home or Toyota Corporation, Noritake China, and the castle that Shogun Ieyasu Tokugawa built in 1610 for his ninth son," according to the Nagoya study abroad Web site. 
For those interested in German, Notre Dame also has a program in Innsbruck, Austria. Students live in dor­mitories either in the University of Innsbruck cam­pus or adjacent to it. Where possible, the University 
. rooms Notre Dame students with German-speaking stu­dents. 
As for the Israel program, the University has cancelled it because of the Israeli­Palestinian conflict. Notre Dame is also in the process of finalizing the housing situa­tion for the program in Rome. 
In the past, Notre Dame only offered Rome for archi­tecture students, and other students would need to go via the Saint Mary's Rome pro­gram. 
"Going abroad might be a good way of escaping th1i ND bubble," said Wiener. 
And through a semester abroad program, different cultures and languages are in your reach. 
"You learn a lot about your­self. More than you can ever qualify in academic stan­dards,'' said Casado. 

regardless of their level of pro­ficiency in Spanish, but if the stu­dent lacks experience, an intensive summer language session is required. 
The pro­gram in Spain is located in Toledo, a smaller town just 40 miles south of Madrid. 
And what would the Fighting Irish be 
FINN PRESSLYfThe Observer 

without an 
Students have the opportunity to study and

Ireland pro­gram? Most live in London, while abroad. 
Other abroad programs 
Notre Dame is affiliated with several other programs in sev­eral colleges throughout the world. 
. Chile 
•' .. 
The haU,centurf"lortg pres­ence of the pries1s and r.eli.­gious of the Congregation of Holy Cross in education and pastoral work in Chile makes 

e for Notre 
h American study abroad program. Participants in the Santiago Program will have an opportu­nity to become familiar with many di!IJ.~11:;ion.11 of C~Uean 

. China Fciunded in 1905, Fudan 

largest city. ShanghaUs situat­ed in the middle of China's east coastline, and is a gate to the Changjiang River valley. 
. Germany 
The city of Berlin, now con­
sidered Germany's cultural, 
political and economic center, lil§lides students with the 
/R@l~rtunity to observe first­hand the emerging impact of a reu~ited Germany on the rest of Europe while studying at the 
·,:;,x.;;•••' .•. 
reni:iwnedfreie Universitat-
BetUo •. >i> 

operates.Jn conjunction with College Year in Athens It offers appfoximate!y 80 undergradu­ate students, mainly fro~ North America, a unique opportunity to study in the capital of Greece. 
. Egypt 

most of the 70-80 stu­
::~.tlnd the program for a 
~Jt is possibJe to enroll for tfoe semester. Study abroad students do not take a prescribed program but elect courses from the general 
of AUC. Study 

a r en s are integrated 
info'elaS'ses with AUC degree 
students and may find that the 
pace of Instruction Is affected 
by the fact that EngH~~ is often 
the second or third language of 
their degree-seeking class­


page 12 The Observ;r . SPORTS Monday, November 20, 2000 
CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish set sights on top IO finish 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associar~ Sports Editor 
Ten is the magic number for Notre Dame today. 
The men's cross country team needs to run error-free to finish among the top 10 in today's NCAA Championships in Ames, Iowa. The Irish can do that if they run consistently without getting out too fast and find a fifth runner to step up. 
"The national meet is about whoever makes the fewest mistakes," leading runner Luke Watson said. 
Notre Dame is ranked No. 18 in the nation heading into today's 10,000-meter race. But a top-10 finish isn't out 

CLASSIFIEDS 
of reach. 
"I think we can be a top 10 team at nationals if every­thing falls right," junior Pat Conway said. "We can easily be in the top 10." 
In the Great Lakes Regional meet Nov. 11, Watson captured the individ­ual title and junior Marc Striowski finished in the top 
10. Conway and freshman Todd Mobley also finished in the top 25, earning all­Regional honors, but the fifth runner for the Irish barely broke the top 100, as the final three Irish runners took off too fast out of the chute. 
The Irish hope to avoid the same mistake today. "We have to start with a 

very low stick with Luke get­ting a very low stick, then we have to have Marc run very well, then we need three solid performances," head coach Joe Piane said. 
A third-place finish at regionals paired with strong team performances all sea­son long put the Irish in the national meet, where they have finished in the top 10 five of the past eight sea­sons. Last year, they placed eighth overall. 
In this year's Pre-National Meet, held on the same course as today's champi­onships, the Irish took 10th. 
Another No. 10 would send the Irish home for Thanksgiving with some­thing to be grateful for. 
VOLLEYBALL 
Irish earn multiple conference honors 


By RACHAEL PROTZMAN Sports Writer 
After finishing undefeated at 11­0 in the Big East regular season. Notre Dame volleyball swept the conference honors at the 2000 awards banquet held Friday before the conference champi­onship. 
The Irish, who earned their fifth Big East championship title in the past six years with three-game wins over Connecticut and Rutgers this weekend. will move on to the NCAA tournament. Notre Dame, which has been ranked No. 1 in the NCAA Northeast Region for all of the 2000 season, led the conference with a .317 hitting percentage going into the 


weekend. "We've been pretty domi­.Junior "I think it gave us Marcie
nant in the Big East this 

a lot of confidence Bomhack 
year so I really don't 

going into the was Notre weekend," senior think it was much ofa Dame's lone co-captain Denise all-Big East
surprise that we won so

Boylan said. "We second team had every reason to many awards." selection. be confident. We Bomhack, 
were undefeated Denise Boylan who was 
this season going 

2000 Big East Player of the Year named Big
into the tourna­ment and expected to win." 
Irish head coach Debbie Brown was named coach of the year for the second time, the first being 1995, after leading Notre Dame to a 23-5 season. Denise Boylan became the Big East player of the year following preseason player of the year honors. Boylan.who led the conference in assists per game with 16.03 while leading the team with 1214 on the season, was also named setter of the year. 
Following the Big East champi­onship held in the Joyce Center this weekend, Boylan was also named the Big East Championship most outstanding player. 

"I really wasn't expecting to be player of the year," said Boylan. "We have a lot of talented people on the team and it could have gone to a bunch of different peo­ple." 
Fellow senior co-captain Christi Girton was also named to the all­Big East first team. Following two weeks of being named conference player of the week, Girton leads the Irish with 396 kills after the weekend championship games. 
Junior Krisy Kreher, also named to the all-Big East first team, comes in second with 389 kills for a .345 hitting percentage while leading Notre Dame with 244 digs. Krcher holds the Irish record of kills in a four-game match with 32 against Loyola 
Marymount. 

East player 
of the week on Nov. 6, comes in second for the Irish with 240 digs. 
Freshman Kirn Fletcher finished up the Irish's awards with all-con­ference rookie of the year honors. Fletcher racked up 76 kills in 2000, including a .636 hitting mark against Pittsburgh earlier in the season. 
"We've been pretty dominant in the Big East this year so I really don't think it was much of a sur­prise that we got so many awards," Boylan said. 
The Irish will finish their regu­lar season play on Friday against No. 3 USC. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office. 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edir all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVEL-1993 Ford Explorer (2 door) OPMENT CENTER Manual 4-wheel drive FOR RENT PAID &VOLUNTEER OPPOR-LOST & FOUND 66,000 miles 
TUNlTIES call: 784-8303 or 219-232-5557 HOUSE FOR LEASE 7/01 Earn money and build resume Lost: Silver mustard seed 4/5 bedrm. 3 blocks to campus. experience while interacting necklace. VERY IMPORTANT. Beautiful brass bed, queen 773-486-8822 with delightful young children. If found, call Kate at 634-3697 size, with orthopedic mattress 
The Early Childhood set and deluxe frame. All new, 3,4 & 6 BDRM HOMES. Development Centers at Saint LOST: MANOS WEDDING never used, still in plastic. $235 FURN. NOW & 2001-02. 272-Mary's College and the RING IN SOUTH DINING 219-862-2082 6306. University of Notre Dame, are HALL AREA ON MONDAY, 
currently accepting applications NOV. 13. PLEASE CLAL NO PLANS FOR THE HOLi-HOUSES FOR RENT from college students for part KEITH AT 1-6147. DAYS? NEW YEARC>S? 2001-2002 time employment positions REWARD!! Vacation in Chicago for 10 BEDROOMS-beginning immediately and for $2~night. Stay at Hostelling 4 BATHS next semester. The hours vary, LOST: GOLD HEART & C.Z. lntOI -Chicago. Call 312/360­3KITCHENS including MWF 12:30 p.m. -BRACELET AT ND-BC GAME, 0300. www.hichicago.org. 
1:30 p.m. and MWF 9;30 a.m. SECTION 32. GIFT TO MY 5 BEDROOMS -11 :30 a.m. If you are inter-WIFE, HUGE SENTIMENTAL High-Speed Copies, Color 2 BATHS ested in applying, please con-VALUE. IF FOUND, PLESAE Copies, Binding, Fax Service, GREAT FRONT PORCH tact Kari Alford, Program CONTACT ME@ Resumes, Business Cards, 
Director at ECDC-SMC, at 284-DUBE.1@ND.EDU Laminating & More! BOTH HOUSES HAVE WASH-4693 or Thayer Kramer, At ERS, DRYERS AND ALARM Program Director at ECDC-ND, THE COPY SHOP SYSTEMS for more information and an LaFortune Student Center 
FOR SALE
application. Phone 631-COPY CALL KRAMER Free Pick-Up & Delivery! 234-2436 Retail positions available at UP #1 Spring Break 2001 ­OR CELL 274-1501. Mall Cancun, Mazatlan, Acapulco, FAX IT FAST!!! 
20 seasonal sales associates Jamaica, Florida & S.Padre. Sending &Receiving needed Reliable TWA flights. Best At WANTED Full & Part time positions avail-Prices. Earn $$$ or FREE THE COPY SHOP 
able trips-call for details! LaFortune Student Center YOUTH DIRECTOR needed Flexible hrs. for your conve-1.800.SURFS.UP www.studen-Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 At First United Methodist nience texpress.com FAX IT FAST!!! Church In$. Bend. 8-12 Avg. $7-$18/hour Mike -thanks for the advice. Too bad you had to walk so far You can have our hot, young in the freezing cold overflow 
You did get lost, right? 
Joe -your groove is alwasy in 
my heart Give it up for 4A for an awe­
some weekend 
i miss my favorite spelunkers 
Brian to Dan: "Hi Dan" Connolly, keep your pants on please. Dan to the Flaming One: "I 
don't like you" 
Then again, you are a "virile 
young man." Have you ever heard of sports­
inanship? We missed our fourth partner in crime. Adam is 21 times more stupid­
Charlie's Angels just weren't er than everyone else the same. 
In their big CS match against But wait, that's only Janel when the veterans, 48 pulled out au she wears the leather jacket. the stops as they showed 
flashes of brilliance It wasn't me! How could I have forgotten I had given her an Hey there Elizabeth -I told you extra key ....... I'd put in a classified 
And so ends another night in  T-minus 8 days ... and counting  
Dillon 128.  
Calculus is fun  
Don't ever wear that shirt  
Go CHEM 125  
Hey Dawn and Carrie -if you're  
lucky, maybe you can meet  Self control is essential  
Jose, Rico, and Pablo some­ 
day  It's a good thing No-Jo has 2  


hrs./wk. $100/wk. Call 233-Outgoing personality, sales PHONE CARDS hands 9463. experience a plus $20 1558 MIN. Hey Krevda, Douglas road sure Ask for Dan or Jen. 340-3761 CALL 284-5145 or 258-4805 PERSONAL is a long way away from Knott 2 AM -who woulda thought! 
' 
I l ------~ -----------------------------------------------------·­


Monday, November 20, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Belles' swimmers fare well at Wabash Invitational 



By JANEL MILLER 
Sports Writer 
While most seniors were hanging out with their fathers for Senior Dads Weekend at Saint Mary's, senior swimmers Olivia Smith. Erin McCarthy, and diver Rvann Cox were in Indianapolis and in the pool Saturday afternoon. 
The meet, the largest invita­tional that Saint Mary's will attend during the year, is the site for the U.S. Olympic Trials. The Wabash Invitational. which came into conflict with Senior Dads Weekend at Saint Mary's, put many senior swim­mers in a lurch to decide to swim or stay on campus with their fathers. 
"I really wanted to be there 

for the freshmen at this meet 
because it is an intimidating 
pool and meet," said co-cap­
ti1in Smith. 
Smith also said she made the 

decision for herself as well. 
"Jt is one of the only times I 

can swim the 1650 and knew I 
needed to do it but also 
because of the pool and all that 
it stands for, I wanted one 
more time to be there." 
Of the 11 teams at the 

Wabash Invitational. the Belles 
placed sixth. "The invite is host and earned impressive times.
to many Division II and III 
Freshman Candace Polisky also schools and provides for some got a shot at the mile [1650]very tough competition," said and did very well according to
Belles head coach Gretchen 
Hildebrandt.
Hildebrandt. "But we swam 
'Tm so excited to have themreally well. and had some great 
swimming personal bests,"
times." 
said Hildebrandt "Everyone
Swimming some off events, had great swims. It's great that some of the Belles still came they just keep dropping time

out on top, including Smith. 
with each meet."
Having never swum the 400­
Freshman Megan Ramsey
yard individual medley, Smith had another record-shattering
and freshman Katy Lebiedz weekend for the Belles.
gained poi,nts for the Belles 
Ramsey, who broke the 100­yard butterfly record two weekends ago, reset her record and added another over the weekend. 
The new record time of one minute, 1.1 seconds edged Ramsey into a second place finish in the 100-yard event. 
The new record was grasped along with a first place berth in the 200 yard butterfly, an event that Ramsey unofficially broke earlier in the year. 
''Taking the clarinet where few have gone " 
7he Philadelphia 
,~;re, 
!YJt~r 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2000 
7:30 PM • LITTLE THEATRE 
For ticket information contact the 284 4 6 2 6 
Saint Mary's College Box Office at • 
,------------------------_.., 
Earn $20/hr! 
MCAT MCAT MCAT MCAT 
' 
'. 
Still waiting for that killer test score to hring in some cash? 
Here's your chance! Call 1-888-581-8378 or _ email info.chicago@review.corn The for a teaching position today! '(!l.incefOn 
Review 
www.review.com 1.888.581.8378 
Ramsey also snatched a second place finish in the 500-yard freestyle. 
McCarthy, after taking some time out for academics, was back in action on Saturday claiming season bests in her three events. "This was her first race since the ND Relays back in October and it was a relief for her to get in and come out with those times," said Hildebrandt. 
Also dropping considerable 
time was Polisky in the 500­yard free and Julie McGranahan in the 100-yard butterfly. While freshman teammate Maureen Palchak clinched fourth place points for the team in the 50-yard freestyle and nearly breaking the school record. 
'Tm glad I decided to go this weekend," said Smith. "I got one last chance to see the names on the wall of all the Olympians and to race in the 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 20, 2000 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Notre Dame uses big first half to blow out Valparaiso 
By LIA MILHOAN 
Sports Writer 
VALPARAISO 
Despite opening their 2000­
2001 season with a 7l-46 victo­
ry over the Crusaders of 
Valparaiso Friday night, the 
Irish women's basketball team 
proved vulnerable at the hands 
of a small-school opponent. 
Although the Irish went into the locker room with a 47-17 lead. the second half was the antithesis of the first half. Valparaiso switched to a man­tu-mau defense, shut down the Irish transition game and forced Notre Dame into a half-court set. After hitting for 47 first half points. the Irish only managed 24 second-half points. 
"If we play like we did in the first half. we're going to have a lot of success. If we play like we did in the second half, we're not going to have a lot of success," said Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw. "The team in the first half was full of intensity and aggressiveness. In the second half we got a little complacent." 
Notre Dame used runs of 13-0 and 16-2 to break open the game and secure a 47-17 half­time advantage. The Valparaiso zone allowed the Irish to bomb away from three point range at will as Notre Dame connected on 9 ofl 1 first half three-point attempts. 
"I got some open looks," said sophomore Alicia Ratay, who led the three-point charge. Ratay lit up the field for 5 threes en route to a team high 17 first half points and finished with 20 for the game. Guards Jeneka Joyce and Niele Ivey added three and two treys, respective­ly, in the contest. 
Valparaiso coach Keith Freeman felt he erred in using the zone because it left the Irish too open on the perimeter. "We were concerned with our foul situations," said Freeman. "We just felt with their ability to pen­etrate we'd have to go to the bench and we can't go too deep in the bench. So we had to go zone." 
The Irish held the Crusaders to 27 percent shooting in the fist half with suffocating defensive pressure -especially by the guards Senior point guard Niele Ivey had four of Notre Dame's six steals. Irish domination of the boards led to one-and-out situations for the Crusaders and let the Irish convert on numer­ous trn.nsition baskets. Senior Kelley Seimon led the [rish with 9 first half rebounds. 
Freshman Jeneka Joyce scored 11 points off the bench, but only three in the second half. The rest of the Irish reserves combined for only seven points. McGraw felt that the team needed more of a spark from the reserves in the second half. 
"That's when you need the bench to contribute. We needed the bench to give us some ener­gy, some intensity and we didn't quite get that off the bench." 
Leading the way for the Crusaders were Jeanette Gray and Marlous Nieuwveen, who scored 14 and 13 points respec­tively. 
"I really like the character of this team. I think over the course of the season we're going to get better. I think games like this really help us," said Freeman. " It's the equivalent on the guys side of playing Duke." 
The Irish next face the Wildcats of the University of Arizona on Monday at the Joyce Center with tip-off set for 7 :30 
p.m. The Wildcats are coming off a 76-71 win over Brigham Young on Saturday. · 
The Wildcats are led by senior guard Reshea Bristol and fresh­man forward Veranda James. In her collegiate debut, James recorded a double-double ­scoring 11 points and hauling in 11 rebounds. 
Coach McGraw said of James and the Arizona team, "Arizona's a very athletic team 

Joyce led the Irish reserves with 11 points.
and really quick. They have a . ~--­freshman on the block shooting like 7 5 percent from the field in exhibition games. She's very, very strong." 
"This will be a great test for 
rge Washington University 
our team but I think we will be up for the challenge," said Arizona coach Joan Bonvicini. "They have what I believe is one of the best inside-outside games in the country. We need to play smart and work on the mistakes we made tonight." 


GW SummerSessions offers programs from 70 different areas ofstudy with over 500 courses from May to August 
Sessions start May 23 and July 9 
• 
Columbian School of Arts and Sciences 

• 
School of Business and Public Management 

• 
Graduate School of Education and Human Development 

• 
School of Engineering and Applied Science 

• 
Elliott School of International Affairs 

• 
School of Medicine and Heallh Sciences 

• 
School of Public Health and Health Services 

• 
Law School 

• 
Center for Professional Development 

• 
Off-Campus Graduate Programs 


REGISTRATION BEGINS MARCH 28 


TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
"The students' First cho,ice in off-camyu.s HousintJ" Is Now raking A_p_plications For rhe 2001-2002 school YearI 


Phone: 272-8124 M-F 9am -6ym1 sat 10am -5pm "Located Just east of the Notre Dame soccer field" 
'~ 
TI:~ 

GW is ¦n equal opportunity Institution. 

Monday, November 20, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
'Hoosier' state matchup shows fear less Indiana attitude 

VALPAfWSO, Ind. 
In the 1986 movie "Hoosiers" Gene Hackman's character, Hickory High School head coach Norman Dale, leads his small­town team to an upset over big-city rival South Bend Central. 
The match-up was similar Friday night in Valparaiso. 
The game was played in an arena that more resembled the rickety gymnasium in "Hoosiers" than the Joyce Center. With the balcony closed off and Valparaiso students having left for Thanksgiving break, many of the 3,000 fans in attendance were cheering for the IrL,;h. 
While the team from South Bend escaped Valparaiso with a 71-46 victory Friday night, the Crusaders of Valparaiso showed the Irish that they, like Hackman's 8-man team in the movie, could play with the big boys, actually outscoring Notre Dame 29-24 in the second half after falling behind early on. 
"If our learning curve can be that good this year game to game as it was from the first half to the second half, I'd be happy," said Crusaders coach Keith Freeman following the game. 
Freeman wasn't that satisfied early on. Early in the game, Valparaiso struggled. Perhaps the male cheerleader running across the court before the game with a sign reading "School Song" put too much pressure on the young team in their first game. Maybe the chants of "Ruuuuuuuuuuuuth" ­an homage to Irish All-American Ruth Riley -that echoed during pre-game introductions took away their home-team advantage. 
Whatever happened, Valparaiso struggled mightily in the first half. Ifthe Crusaders' destination was the basket, it seemed their search would end in futility each time down the court. The team ended the first half with four more points than their 13 turnovers, and only guard Jeanette Gray made more than one basket. 



After falling behind 4 7 -17 at halftime, most teams would pack it in and get their bench players in the game. Rather than giving in, Freeman -a veteran Indiana coach who has been directing women's basketball from the side­line in the state since becoming a head coach in 198:~ at age 21 ­was able to direct a performance that showed why the Crusaders reached the Mid-Continent Conference Tournament champi­onship game last season. 
After playing in a zone defense during the first half of the game, a defense that fell victim to a strong IrLo;;h perimeter attack that includ­ed nine first-half three-pointers, Valparaiso switched to a man-to­man attack in the second half. The attack worked, as Valparaiso opened the half with a 12-5 run. 
Keying the ValparaL'lo attack was freshman point guard Suzie Hammel. The Lebanon, Ind. native making her college debut showed no fear after being asked to guard Irish sharp-shooter Alicia Ratay. 
Second-team all-Big East vs. rookie? No problem for the tough Hammel. 
"I was glad they put me on her. actually," said Hammel -who allowed Ratay to take only one of four shots in the latter half of the game. Hammel also helped out on offense, hitting a key 3-pointer in the opening minutes of the half. The point guard also finished the game with six assists. 
Hammel found success at point guard despite having never before played the position. "I thought she had a lot of poise. For never play­ing the point in high school," said Freeman. "I feel like as our prac­tices have gone on, she's emerged as our best point guard." 
The game had a home-town feel for many players on each side, giv­ing the game an atmosphere much less like a national power­house opening its season against a week opponent. It felt like 
Valparaiso started three native Hoosiers in Gray-a Valparaiso native, Hammel and forward Amber Schober. Notre Dame's superstar Riley hails herself from the small town of Macy, Ind. Ratay, an Illinois native, also had her mother in attendance. For Hammel at least, having friends in the stands provided comfort. 
"It's a lot of fun knowing that you have people out there that you know," said Hammel. "That's one ofthe reasons why I picked com­ing here." 
Gray, who finished the game as Valparaiso's leading scorer with 14 points, stood as the perfect example of her team's guts and determination. 
"Jeanette plays hard, I think Jeanette plays really hard," said Freeman. ''Two days ago she almost passed out in practice because she was sick. She's a gutsy kid." 
Freeman's team showed, at least for one half, that despite not being the deepest and most talent­ed team on tl1e court, they could compete with the big time. 
"I like the character of this 
team," said Freeman. "I think 
over the course ofthe sea.son 
we're going to get better." 
In "Hoosiers" Hickory used eight players in overcoming South Bend Central to take the title. In an NCAA tournament known for pit­ting small schools against power­houses, the Irish may have to watch out-Valpo could be right around the corner. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are tlwse ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 20, 2000 
Irish offense proves its worth in penalty-filled game 
Sloppy. run it again. 
The guy playing Ara Parseghian in Rudy yelled it at his Irish team. and I wouldn't be all that surprised if current Notre Dame head coach 13ob Davie was thinking and/or yelling the something similar Saturday. 
Notre Dame beat llutgers 45­17, scoring the last three touch­downs of the game. But as any math major could tell you, if the Irish scored the last 21 points and won by 28, there was a time in the third quarter when they only led 24-17. 
And if you divide the average age of all Notre Dame head coaches by the time at which the winter solstke begins ... Sorry -sometimes I get on a roll of numerical babbling and don't snap out of it for a while. 
Anyway, the point is (finally). Hutgers hung around at least a quarter longer than most people figured, receiving some help from Irish penalties. For the game, the officials threw the yellow flags on Notre Dame penalties 12 times for 120 yards. 
These mistakes stood out the most on the second quarter drive that ended in an Irish field goal, extending the Notre Dame lead to 17-10. 
The drive covered 47 yards, starting on the Irish 37 and end­ing at the Rutgers 16. But to move that far, Notre Dame actu­ally had to travel the equivalent eighty-five yards because they were whistled for three penal­ties. 
Actually, there were four. On a third down inside the red zone, the Scarlet Knights had their choice of door number one. "clipping," or door number two, "holding." 
When you throw in a Rutgers personal foul call earlier in the possession, that drive became a potpourri of penalties, complete with a false start, two clips, a 


holding, and the just mentioned  with season highs in total  don't know if there is one good  against the likes of Rutgers and  
"extracurricular activity."  offense.  answer.  still paste them, but doing that  
That they still got points out of  "Point well taken," you say.  You look at teams like Florida  to USC is something completely  
this series is a  "But what  State who is near the top of the  different.  
testament to this  does it all  polls and the list of most penal­ Whether USC is 10-0 or 0-10,  
Irish offense and how much they've improved. The  Whether sloppy or sensational, Notre Dame does tend to lead in the  mean?" That's a good ques­tion. Of  ized teams, and you have to think that their incredible talent lets them get away with mis­takes.  they're going to be ready for the Irish and their BCS hopes to come 'a calling. Unfortunately for the Trojans,  
same can he said of the first quarter touch­ most important statistic: the final score.  course, every penalty called isn't  The combination of' the Irish's talent and det permination has let them make those penalties a  though, whether sloppy or sen­sational, Notre Dame does tend to lead in the most important  
down drive that  against the  non-factor the last two weeks.  statistic: the final score.  
followed up the  offense. As  But just like LoVecchio isn't out  The views expressed in this  
erasing of Matt LoVecchio's 68  coaches love to say, it's a team  putting up Weinke numbers, the  column are those ofthe author  
yard touchdown run because of  game. If it looks like I'm stalling,  Irish aren't the Noles. They can  and not necessarily those ofThe  
a hold.  then you're pretty perceptive. I  afford these kind of mistakes  Observer.  

Social Concerns Seminar: Theo 366 Spring 2001 

SOCIAL CONCERNS 

-> A two-week service-learning opportunity in Mexico: May 15 -30, 2001 -> Students earn one credit (Fall 2001) -> In Mexico, students experience and reflect upon the economic, political, 
and social realities of Latin America 
• > Students chosen to participate in the Mexico Seminar meet weekly during the Spring Semester to plan, organize and fundraise for the trip 
-> Knowledge of Spanish is helpful, but not required 
• 
> Open to Notre Dame and St. Mary's juniors, sophomores, and freshmen 

• 
> The Seminar fee is $500 ($100 deposit with remainder due later) 


INFORMATIONAL MEETING Monday, November 20, 2000 
4:30 p.m. Center for Social Concerns For more information contact: 
Joe Lake, 634-4931 Jay Brandenberger, 631-5293 



For the second straight week, the Irish broke the 400-yard mnrk in total offense. Tailback Tony Fisher, starting in the place of the injured Julius Jones, had his second straight 100-yard rushing game, and the team as a whole gained 295 yards on the ground. 

At the quarterback spot, no one is saying that the freshman Lovecchio is putting up Weinke­esque numbers. But in the last two weeks, he has completed just a hair under 72 percent of his passes for 272 yards. thrown two touchdowns, and rushed for 152 yards. 
You're seeing this offense do what it does best: line up behind a big offensive line. that, like any good team's 0-line, proba­bly deserves more credit than it gets, and feature a host of talent in the backfield. 
Those guys can't be featured unless you have threats to catch the hall, and the Irish are now utilizing those threats. Opposing teams know Notre Dame isn't going to come out and beat them by throwing forty times for three hundred yards. 

But that's OK, because they do know the passing attack is there to make big plays, whether those plays be a deep touch­down pass to Joey Getherall, or a shorter one that Javin Hunter turns into six. 
"Yeah," you're saying, "but that last game was against Rutgers. They're not very good." 
Point well taken. 

It's probably also right to point out that the Irish have ended each of the last two games with season highs in the number of yards they've been penalized. 
At the same time, at the end of each of the last two games, Notre Dame has walked away 


Monday, November 20, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Talented soccer tealll finally grabs attention of students 

How could Friday night's "' women's soccer game be summed up'? 
Cold. Very cold. But the freezing tempera­

tures didn't stop several hun­dred members of the student body from coming out to see top­ranked Notre Dame beat Harvard 2­0. 
Who 

knows why all those people turned out? Maybe it was the yellow foam fin­gers that were given away to every stu­dent who entered. Maybe they were looking for something to do and standing in the cold was their idea of fun. 
Or maybe they wanted to see one heck of a soccer game and have a great time in the process. 
"The fans were awesome and 

Ali Lovelace dribbles upfield during Sunday's game against Michigan. Despite freezing temperatures, nearly 800 students turned 
there were cheering a ton," 
up to watch Notre Dame defeat Harvard on Friday night. 
said senior forward Meotis Erikson. "That really helps a become standard at football ceeded to make the next 45 showed up couldn't have ed play for most of the game. lot." games. minutes the worst of her life. picked a better game to attend. When the final horn sounded, 
The fan support at the After every Notre Dame goal, Cheers like "Chheerryyylll, The Irish play their final home the team didn't grab their women's soccer games has a few students did pushups. Chherryylll" reverberated game of the season Friday, warm stuff and take off for the gradually risen over the sea­Before every corner kick, the throughout Alumni Field every when most of the campus will locker room. Just like they do son, with more and more peo­fans circled a hand over their time the Irish mounted an be celebrating Thanksgiving at after every home game, they ple realizing just how good head and yelled just as they do offensive attack. And when a home with their families. walked across the field and they are. And it's about time. before every kickoff at a foot­sliding Mia Sarkesian knocked So, Friday's game was the waved to the fans as if they After all, the No. 1 sign lighting ball game. Shouts of "Go, Irish, the ball past Gunther to put last chance to see this talented were saying, "Thanks for com­up the sky over Grace Hall isn't Go!" and "Let's go Irish" sliced this Irish up 2-0, the twenty­team play this season. And the ing." lit up for the football team. through the night sky. some students behind the goal students who stood through the "We're really proud of our 
The students who braved the A few students even showed chanted, "It's all your fault! It's freezing temperatures to watch fans," Erikson said. "We hope cold weather were determined some creativity with their all your fault! It's all your the Irish play weren't disap­they keep coming back." to have a good time. They cheers. At the start of the sec­fault!" pointed. Despite playing on a The uiews expressed in this cheered for the Irish, heckled ond half, they moved to the It was nice to finally see some field that was more suited for column are those of the author the Crimson, and incorporated bleachers behind Harvard support for these talented ath­hockey than soccer, the Irish and not necessarily those of several cheers that have goalie Cheryl Gunther and pro-letes, and the students who came out fired up and dominat-The Observer. 



Santa Clara upsets BYU, will face Irish in quarterfinals 
ner in sudden-victory overtime
Special to The Observer 
to lead 24th-ranked Santa Clara in a 2-1 upset of eighth-ranked
PROVO, Utah 

Brigham Young in NCAA third­
Senior forward Megan 

round action this afternoon atHorvath score~ the game-win-

South Field. Game-time temper­14-match unbeaten streak this ature was 37 degrees under season, as well as its 20-match 
clear skies. 
Horvath has recorded goals in the last four matches, three of which have been game-win­ners. Today's breakaway score came in 102nd minute of overtime. 
Winners of five straight, 
win streak at home, dating back to 1998. "We played with a lot of Additionally, 
the Broncos
heart and guts against a 
have eliminat­
great team -probably ed the Cougars 
the toughest team we in the playoffs the last four
have faced all year. ,, 
straight sea­sons and lead Jerry Smith the all-time series now 5-0­
Santa Clara head coach 
0. Today's win 

Santa Clara improves to 16-6-1, also marked SCU's 20th in the while BYU's season ends at 19-postseason, as Santa Clara has 4-1. The Broncos broke BYU's advanced to the last 12 straight NCAA Tournaments. The Broncos, who have reached the semifinals seven times, including the last four straight, will face top-ranked Notre Dame in a quarterfinal match for a chance to return to the Women's College Cup. That match will take place in South Bend, Ind., on Friday, Nov. 24 at 7 p.m. Notre Dame is 22-0-1 on the season and the only team left undefeated. Santa Clara fell to the Fighting Irish 6­1 with a limited roster earlier this season in South Bend. The semifinals and Championship matches will be contested at San Jose State University, Friday and Sunday, Dec. 1 and 3. 

"Our goalkeeper made a cou­ple of big saves for us in regula• tion," Santa Clara head coach Jerry Smith said of senior Crystal Gordon. "I am very proud of the team. We played with a lot of heart and guts against a great team -probably the toughest team we have faced all year." 
Brigham Young opened the match at the 4:4 7 mark when midfielder Sara Heading put a shot into the upper right corner of the goal on an assist from Natalyn Lewis. Santa Clara responded in the second half, when freshman defender Chardonnay Poole headed the ball into the net in the 56th minute off a cross from senior forward Heather AlMIM...•·..·: 
~-ii i • ,. , • -. , , · 1 .• • i a· I',, " , 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 20, 2000 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Ingelsby leads Irish to impr~ive rout of Sacred Heart 
By BRIAN KESSLER Sporrs Wri1er 

After starting at point guard during his first two years at Notre Dame, Martin Ingelsby's pride took a major blow last sea­son, when then-head coach Matt Doherty chose senior Jimrnv Dillon as the starter. 
However, witJ1 the starting job locked up heading into the 2000-01 season, lngelsby proved Saturday that he is out to make the most of his opportunity. The senior knocked down a career-high five three­pointers in the first 15 minutes of the game and finished with 15 points and sLx assists to lead No. 16 Notre 
said. "When they made those open shots, we just couldn't recover." 
To make matters worse for Sacred Heart, Notre Dame opened the second half with a 29-8 run. four Irish players scored in dou­ble figures, including All-American forward Troy Murphy who scored a game-high 31 points and grabbed 14 rebounds. Ryan Humphrey put in a 19-point, nine-rebound effort in his first ofiicial game in an Irish uniform. 
"It felt great out there," Humphrey said. "This was a long time coming." 
Carroll finished with 17 points and six assists and held Sacred Heart's best player Marijus Kovaliukas in check. Kovaliukas 
was just 2-of-12 from the 
Dame (1-0) to a 104-58 "I've been waiting for floor and missed all four of season-opening victory hie; three point attempts. 
this game since we lost ...
against Sacred Heart "I challenged Matt yester­
in the NIT Championship 
at the Joyce Center. day and told him he was 
'Tve been waiting game last year. " going to have Kovaliukas," for this game since we Brey said. "But Matt worked Jost to Wake Forest in him really hard, especially
Martin lngelsby
the NIT Championship early. He's going to be our game last year," said Irish point guard stopper on the perimeter 
lngelsby.. who also grabbed two rebounds and committed just one turnover in 30 min­utes of play. "It was a great confidence boost just coming out there and hearing your name in the starting lineup." 
'Tm happy for Martin Ingelsby," Irish head coach Mike Brey said. "He had a great game and I know he had a tough year last year." 
The Pioneers hung around early, trailing by just four points eight minutes into the contest, but a Matt Carroll four point play at the 11 :43 mark got the Irish rolling. Fueled by superb long-range shooting, Notre Dame quickly built a 24-point lead by halftime and never looked back. 
"Obviously I was disappointed with our defense." Pioneers' head coach Dave Bike and that was a good test for 
him tonight." 
Notre Dame held Sacred Hemi to jL1St 29 percent shooting from the field. Andrew Hunter scored 15 points and Kurt Reis added 14 in the losing effort. The Irish dished out 25 assists, while committing just 13 turnovers. 
'Tm happy with the way we started off," said Brey. "When you have 25 assists, no matter who you are playing, that's good balance." 
The Irish shot 57 percent from the field and connected on 30-of-38 attempts from the charity stripe. They also outrebounded the Pioneers, 48-33. Both teams combined for 53 fouls in game that was officiated very tightly. 
Notre Dame hosts Loyola (Chicago) 



Power Mac 64 Cube: The campus supercomputer. 
With unprecedented style, the Power Mac G4 Cube gives you G4 performance so you can play graphics-intensive games or crunch numbers without overwhelming your desktop. The Power ~c G4 Cube bundle include;; the supem 17" Apple Studio Display. 
450MHz/64MB/20GB HD/DVD ROM156K/FireWire trom$2,292 
Price includes three-yearAppleCare Protection Plan 
iMac: New fall lineup. 
The nt:W iMacs have the power and performance to meet your demanding rnun;c requirements and get you on the Internet fast. Three of the four mo<leb are AirPort readyt and allow you to create your own Desktop Movies with FireWire and iMovie 2. 
350MHz/64MB/7GB HD/CD ROM/56K/USB fromS965 
Price includes three-year App/eCare Protection Fian. 
iBook: It's iMac to go. 
Make effortless lmcrnet connections, take notes in cl~, and even produce and star iri your own De'iktop Movies, all with the m:w ,Book. Add Airl'orr and you're cleared for rakeoff wi1h wireless Internet acces.d 
366MHz/64MB/10GB HD/CD ROM/FireWire/56K from $1,711 
Price includes three-year AppleCare Protection Plan. 
Solutions Center 

Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. 
Notes: 
Brey picked up his 100th career victory as a head coach and his first at Notre Dame. 
Saturday's game marked the first time 
PowerBook 

the Irish went over 100 points in an opener since a 104-56 win over St. Joseph's (Ind.) in 1983. 
Murphy, who began the evening No. 16 on Notre Dame's all-time scoring list, passed former Irish greats John Paxson, Collis Jones and Monty Williams to move into 13th. 
For taking to class, it's in a dass by itself. 
Aportable science lab and movie studio, the PowerBook offers exceptional power and long battery life to accompany you everywhere. Built-in FireWire lets you connect to external devices like digital cameras, CD recorders, scanners, and hard drives. And now every PowerBook comes with iMovie video editing software, so you can direct and act in your own Desktop Movies. 
400MHz/64MB/10GB HD/DVD R0M/FireWire/56K 
from$2,340 
Price 111cludes rhree-year App/eCare Protection Plan. 


t=::~=~equw=.Abc:~

~ Slallon and ~letnel access pees may ffi. Some tsPs a,e_ not currently compalb:: With AirPort, i~mg Amefiea Ontloe. ~ange may vary wlltl ~le cooditiOOs. This otter Is not vaUd witfl lhe p~rchase ol Qualilying pr~ucts that are USed, refurbished, 0t demonstratton eQUlpmenl. Putchllse must be made by an end-user purchaser, and no« a resetlat to oblah, these ~the rlgnl io ~tttul~Bl'nlums ol eQtJaJ°';=era~~~:!!:~J11rae:,:~~l~:c:.:su:i :;:!::t!~~f~::(•~ualsJ:~I ~glble lotrecHe~ve premium_ Items via fullilme~~tt this offer. E~ucabonal. and Apple Store pricing and prornoliOllill offerings 5'JPflrsede this ofter. This oiler 15 'IOla Wh6re proh1l1ded or 1estrlcled Uy law. This oiler is good whlla su. las!. AjJp1e Computer, "-. rllql5lltf.Qd Ill h U.S. antl other COl.fltnes, NrPIJI, ~ SIOfe, iBook, IMac, P<M>er Mac, MIO •ftp lifleranl" are trademarks ol Apple Compute~ klc. no • SO er IS no Ya In COnJUnchoo With any olller O er or promot11m, Premmm items may ool btt returned O< refunded. 0 2000 ApJiEI Comouter, Inc. NA rights reseNetlr~. tti1et,ppk!:1kigo, fua~e M1c, and r~r~,are, ti.id~ of Aoole 
Monday, November 20, 2000 
The Observer . TODAY page 19 

FOURTH AND INCHES 
WEB:'.ENt>: 
SUAL HOMEWORt::. 
THE TIME 

Fox TROT 
www.fomot.com  
(!) • --•',J;:ir\  

TOM KEELEY 

THeREFORE, I SHAU. LIMIT MY.$El.F TO ON.Y THREE TRIPS TO CORBY'S 
INSTEAb ()If THE USUAL
,.~ 
BILL AMEND 
OK, MAYBE 1T'S A LITTLE. EAllL'Y To 


TYLER
THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 

-


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Feast of Lights 63 Stockpile 1 Long-limbed, as 36 52, in old Rome 64 As a whole a model 37 Apparition 65 Butterfly catcher's need
6 Sunrises 39 Opposite SSW 11 Rotating piece 40 Like old 
66 Money to use in a machine newspaper 67 See eye to eye 14 Dean Martin's 
clippings, often 

"That's " 43 Fem leaf DOWN 15 AOL delivery 45 Eternally 1 Places for 16 Honest 46 It's not pay-as-experiments 
you-go 2 Send off 48 Secure, doubled 3 Always-moving 
17 Hefty, doubled 
19 French sea 52 Come from 4 Vivid
20 Cease and desist 53 Elisabeth of 5 Longing "Leaving Las 
6 Pollute21 Hoarseness Vegas" 7 Divert22 Duck in a pond 54 Stay in the 8 Angry tribes 23 Domicile shallow end of may be on them
doubled the pool 9 Nonexistent
27 Shorten 58 Idiosyncrasy 1oNot-to-be­30 Get misty-eyed 59 Pep, doubled 
trusted 31 It helps you 62 "What our 
11 Small part 
stand up straight chances?" 

played by a big name ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Lying port-to­starboard 
Puzzle by Teresa M. Hackett

F A C A D E A M E B A G Norman
13 A C H R I S T O R V cosmetics 
33 Be positive 47 Lamented 56 1996 candidate about Bob
48 Man with horns
>-~-+--R-+--+-,--..--::-t-:-t-:::-r.-::-t-::;,,,. -=+=+-ee-+e,-1 18 The "D" in F.D.A. 
34 Tolstoy's "_ 49 Burning 57 Writer_22 Not exiting, as
E Karenina" Stanley Gardner
50 Aspect 35 Actress Lamarr traffic 

59 Channels 2-13
51 Archaeologist's bit 60 Debtor's note 24 Poem of praise 
37 Newswoman Ifill 55 Gelatinlike base 61 Itinerary word 25 Tidy 
26 Former veep 38 Abel, by Quayle profession 
27 With skill 
41 Salacious glance Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 28 Cheese on 
42 Eggs 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
crackers 
43 Wetland Annual subscriptions are available for the 
1-B-+-E-+--+---+-+--+--+--t-,,-....j---1--+--1 29 Part of a scenic 
44 Detroit N.H.L.'er best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50
I N T D E N C E overlook years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
L.:.A..:.i....:T:...L...:E:.i..::L:.i.::E~.L;;..-a.;:..L:JL.-=.JL.:...:..1..::..1...::;.J.= 32 Atlantic catch 46 Establishes 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
MONDAY, NOVEMIIER 20, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS Discord will be manifest. Your preoc­DAY: Sean Young. Veronica Hamel, cupation with emotional concerns Duane Allman, Judy Woodruff may cause you to be self-centered. 
Happy Birthday: You'll be fo­Pull yourself together. People around cused on your goals, and nothing you rely on your stability and wisdom. short of advancement is likely to sat­00 isfy you this year. You have energy LIBRA (SepL 23-0ct. 22): Proper­and stamina, so if you work hard, ty investments will pay off. You can you can tum your vision into a reali­make positive changes at home. You ty. You want to be the best at every­will impress others with your sound thing you pursue and will not give ideas. Don't hesitate to ask for up until you reach your dream. Your favors. Go after your goals. 000 numbers: 1, 7, 11, Zl, 44, 45 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Mix Look to those with more experience business with fleasure for best and knowledge for answers. You can results. You wil appreciate some make romantic connections. Be posi­competition from colleagues and tive that your potential mate is com­clients, so organize a contest requir­pletely clear ofpast ties. 0000 . ing skill and endurance. 0000 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Dis­21): You will work much better on appointment regarding your resi­your own today. Frustration will dence will cause disruptions in your mount if you have to wait for some­plans. Make sure you take care of the one to complete his or her work in needs of those you're responsible for. order to finish yours. Don't expect Private affairs may be all-consuming. favors from others. 00 000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Idle Be creative. You will be happiest time will lead to disagreements with while working with your hands or those at home. Renovation or redeco­when dealing with children. If you rating projects could turn out well if don't already have a hobby, today you are willing to work with one is an excellent day to start one: 
another.00 00000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): should listen to sound ad vice con­Opportunities to make financial cerning your present emotional situ­gains or sign contracts is apparent. ation. You may find that career You may want to become serious changes are being forced on you. about your personal relationship. Acceptance will be the key. 0000 You must make decisions regarding 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will your future together. 000 be highly creative in your work. PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Oients will appreciate your unique­Expect discord with your emotional ness even if your boss is too rigid to partner if you have been too grasp your point of view. Your charm wrapped up in your business deal­and intellect will win you points. ings. You may want to take time to 000 explain your situation. Promise to 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): make it up to him or her. 00 
Birthday Baby: You have quiet but thoughtful charm that will win the hearts of those you encounter throughout your life. You are clevei; kind and 
-
willing to do whateveris necessary to help those you care about. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialasLcom, astromate.com.) · 
C> 2COO Universal Press Syndicate 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year ... 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City _______State ___Zip_____ 

..--------------------------------~------------·­

End of the trail 
The men's cross country team travels to Iowa today to compete in the NC4A Championships. The Irish are looking to finish in the top 1 ofor the sixth time in 

PORTS 
nine years. 
page 12 

O
THE page 20 BSERVER Monday, November 20, 2000 

WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Irish play through freezing temperatures to beat Crimson 
really set the tone for not get­headed it in." out of reach. Again it was a cor­Despite the loss, Wheaton was
By KEVIN BERCHOU 

ting ourselves in trouble. I never "Anne can finish, so I was try­ner kick that made the differ­pleased with his squad's effort. 
Sports Writer 

felt that we were struggling." ing to hit her." added Erikson. ence. Erikson served the ball "We thought we could give them 
,-.­
When a Harvard defender The Irish have enjoyed con­from the right corner and Mia a battle and I think we did." he It was a frigid night but the pushed the ball over the end siderable success off set plays Sarkesian slid the ball past said. top-ranked Notre Dame line in the game's 31st minute, all season. Nine of the last 13 Crimson goalkeeper Cheryl With the win the Irish extend women's soccer team was red 
Notre Dame was awarded a cor­team tallies have come off cor­Gunther. their unbeaten streak to 23 hot. ner kick. an opportunity they ner kicks or free kicks. "We needed that second goal games. just one short of the 
Battling the See Also would be quick to convert. Waldrurn emphasizes the set to ensure things," said team record. and earn the rightHarvard Senior forward Meotis Erikson play in practice. Waldrum. "I was concerned to play a familiar foe in the Crimson in "Talented lofted a high cross to the far "We noticed that Harvard that they might be able to quarterfinals on Friday night. the third side of the box where a leaping puts a couple players on the counter us." For the second time this year. 
soccer team

round of the Anne Makinen was able to head post and then man-marks in the Harvard coach Tim Wheaton the Santa Clara Broncos will 
NCAt\ tourna­finally grabs 

the ball inlo the lower half of box and that's very difficult in acknowledged thaL the second make the trip to South Bend. ment, the attention of the net to provide the Irish with that kind of a space, because goal was the clincher. The Broncos were undefeated Irish blanked all they would need to win. there's so much traffic," said "The second goal was very last year, before being shocked
students"

the Crimson "Meotis played the ball to the Waldrum. "Late in the season disappointing," said Wheaton. by the Irish, 1-0, in the NCM 2-0 in their page 17 far post, which was pretty much we've begun to spend more time "In a game like this, to give up a semifinals, in a game theyfirst ever 
planned from practice, and the on set pieces and we have had a second goal and keep battling is maintain they still should have meeUng. girl in front of me that was lot of success." very tough. It takes a lot of won. After their 6-1 Irish defeat 
"I thought we came out with a marking me jumped at the Still leading by a count of 1·0 character and a lot of fight. We in September. the Broncos will lot of intensity," said Irish head wrong time," said Makinen. "It as the second half commenced, were battling all the way look to come back and end coach Randy Waldrum. "We just came to my head and I the Irish moved to put the game through, trying to get a goal." Notre Dame's unbeaten season. 
. WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL 

Notre Dame claims Big East title after beating Rutgers 
.... By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's vol­leyball team rounded out Big East play this weekend with sweeps over Connecticut and Rutgers for the conference title. This week­end marked Notre Dame's sixth consecutive conference tourna­ment appearance with five titles. 
The Irish, now 25-5 overall and ranked 20th nationally, will See Also move on to its 
"Irish earn 
eighth consecu­mt:ltiple
tive NCAA tour­nament appear­conference ance as a result 
honors"
of the Big East 

-
title. page 12 
The Irish topped Connecticut in three games (15­10, 15-13, 15-6) on Saturday to move on to the conference cham­pionship against Rutgers on Sunday.

-
"Winning both matches in three games was pretty big for us. Against UConn earlier in the sea­son we had to play five games with them so it was a goal to fin­ish them off in three and we were able to do that," said senior co­captain Denise Hoylan. 
Notre Dame racked up a 6-2 lead in game one before allowing the Huskies to narrow the gap to just two points with a 9-7 score before coming on strong to secure the first game win. Connecticut put in a stronger per­formance during game two as it rallied from a 9-3 Irish lead to earn the 12-9 lead before Notre

-
Dame came back to wrap up game two as an Irish win . 
Junior Marcie Bomhack led the Irish offense with 19 kills while juniors Kristy Kreher and Malinda Goralski followed with 18 each. Goralski also added her career-high of 11 blocks to aid Notre Dame. Senior Christi Girton chipped in 12 digs and 10 kills. 
Connecticut falls to 18-12 with the loss and 7-5 in the Big East including a five-game loss to Notre Dame earlier in the season. 
"I don't think there was a point that we thought we weren't going to win it all. We may have gotten down during the second game against UConn but I don't think that there was a doubt in any­one's mind that we were going to come back and win it," said Boylan. 
The Irish finished off the cham­pionship title run with a three­game sweep over Rutgers (15-8, 15-8, 15-10). 
Girton racked up 16 kills and ten digs to lead the Irish perfor­mance while Kreher and Goralski each added 15 kills. Bomhack racked up 13 kills and 18 digs to aid Notre Dame. Boylan racked up 62 a.sssists and 14 digs to earn Big East Championship Most Outstanding Player honors while leading the Irish to a .335 week­end hitting percentage. 
"I think we did a really good job of keeping our composure and staying patient throughout the weekend. Our middles were real­ly effective this weekend and that helped," Boylan said. 
Notre Dame will face No. 6 USC in its final match of the regular season on Friday. 



• Men's Cross Country at Franklin 
vs. Santa Clara NCAA Championship Wednesday, 7 p.m, 
Friday, 7 p.m. 

SPORTS w: II 
Today, 11 a.m. 

.Jjji-vs. USCATA Saturday, I :30 p.m. 
vs. Arizona 
f~­
vs. Loyola vs. Northern Michigan 
Today, 7 p.m. 
Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. ~ Friday and Saturday, 

GLANCE w 
7:05 p.m. 


