
Psychopathic killer hits the screen 
Football ticket forum 
Rer•iewer says ThP Cell -starring JPnn(fer 
Students will have the opportunity to voice their 
Thursday
Lopez, Vince Vaughn and Vincent D'Onofrio ­
concerns regarding ticket distribution and their 
is bizarre. creative and horrifying, 
recommendations for change. 
AUGUST 31,
Scene . page 13 
Viewpoint . page 11 
2000 


======--=-=--=--=-=-========================================================================== 

The Independent Newspaper SeJ1Jing Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 8 HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 
Student questions The Shirt's new design concept 

New rectors bring unique experiences to halls 
/:'clitor's Note: This is the second oflwo Joseph·s hospital. "I am looking forward to living in a stories about the new rectors ancl rec­Dougherty comes to Notre Dame with community with students," she said. "I tress on Notre !Jame's campus. much experience in the educational really want to be a companion to the 
aspect of ministry. including working girls. It's rnally exciting." By NATE PHILLIPS with thP campus ministry at the Dougherty describes herself as both News W'ritcr University ofTampa. flexible and understanding. 
Despite her experienrns in Florida, "It is easy for me to go with the flow. I 
Dougherty had a strong desire to work lind it to be very liberating," she said. 
This year, as thn infectious feeling of at a Catholic school. especially at Notre She also loves examining different unli('ipation and optimism about the Dame. perspectives, including thost:\ that do not 11Pw ypar spniads throughout campus. 'Tve always lovP.d Notre Dame," shP. necessarilv mesh with hPr views. pnrhaps no on<' is looking forward to the said. "Jfoing an Irish-Catholic, it's in my "I love ~ew ideas and new thoughts," 
school yPar more 
than 1ww "frpsh­
111P11 rPrtors hLtlwr John Stt1Ple ol' M1irrissey Manor and Sist1\r i\nnP Dougherty of' I Iowan! I !all. 
Tlw two say they ar<' eager for the expcricnc1is tlui nPxt vear will offor. 


Doi1ghnrty canw to Howard llall after said. "As a dorm, we want to focus more on st,rvi11g for 11 years in ;in AIDS ministry In aduition to the academic environ­sponsoring social work and l'und-rais­in Tampa, Fin. She also S('rvcd as a ment, Dougherty will enjoy being with rnP11tal hnalth counselor in Tampa's St. the students. 
see RECTORS/page 6 
Board, alumni help interns explore law 
By BRIGID SWEENEY 
New, Wricer 

With the help of the Notre Dame Law Association Board and the generosity of alumni, eight Notre Dame law students turned internships with public interest law firms across the country into a possi­bility for future law school summer pro­grams. 
"A few years ago, students came to the Board asking for more public interest work consistent with Notre Dame's mis­sion statement," said Paul Mattingly, chairperson of the Notre Dame Alumni­Funded Summer Stipend Committee. "There weren't many resources avail­able, especially to students trying to 
see SERVICE/page 4 

. Original design rejected for mixing football, religion 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
A<;soci,11x :\Jews Editor 
Wlwn many stud(\nts. alumni and Cans dun tlw ;woo "Shirt" f"nr this f'ootba II season. Notrn l>nnw senior NPil Fitzpatrick 1,vill d,,cJinP to follow suit. 
Tlw Shirt, which is designed by a student and sold in vari­ous campus vt>nues, is an organization run by stud11nts. Tlw popular piPn\ of apparel is a tributP to tlw football tPam and \.V(>rn as a sign of solidari­ty bv tlw studPnt body at llrn lfrst·!wmP !'ootball gan1P. 
For Fitzpatri('k, his ordeal with Tl11• Shirt began in the spring of' 2000 wlwn lw sub­mittPd a design to TlH' Shirt 1·ommittPr\. What followPd l<'d to much frustration for Fitzpatrick and mad<' him quPstion thP Pxtent to which studPnts run tlw commiltPc ­or if" tlw Uniwrsity's adminis­tration was falling· the shots in tlw Pncl. 
'The design I submitted had the football playPrs in a group holding up their helmets at the bas(' of the Dome with the words 'Proudly in the heavPns gleams thy gold and blue,"' said Fitzpatrick. Fitzpatrick was notiJ'iPd that his design had bf1en selected as the 2000 Shirt. 
Peggy llnatusko, assistant dirnctor ol' Student Activities programs, said that although 
students a.rn responsible l'or scll·cting thP dPsign of Thr: Shirt, it has to go through vari­ous University offices to make sure that it meets University and NCAA regulations. It was during this process that objec­tions tu r:itzpatrick's design wen• encountPred. 
"I was told that my design vio[at11d the University's policy of mixing foothall and reli­gion," said Fitzpatrick. 
Fitzpatrick was then directed to Father William Beauchamp, who at that time was executive vicP president of" the Uniwrsity. Beauchamp said he was asked to look over the design although he normally did not view the designs. 
"There is not a specific policy rnganling tlw mixture of reli­gion and football. but someone had questions about his design and I did make suggestions to Neil that the Univ!'rsity was concf'rned about the design because it had the statue of the lloly Mother Mary in it," said lfoauchamp. "We are very sen­sitiv!' with the use of CniVPrsity rrligious symbols and wanted to be sure the use of' any symbols in the design wern in kenping with the appropriate use of that sym­bol." 
Fitzpatrick detailed his con­versation ,vith Beauchamp. 
"I wanted to meet with him to show him the design and ask what changes I needed to make for it to be acceptable," said Fitzpatrick. "We agreed that I would enlarge the Dome to make it a silhouette so that no details of Mary were visible 

PETE RICHARDSONfThe Observer 

Senior Neil Fitzpatrick displays his original concept for The Shirt. The design originally won the 
design contest, but the University decided to change it. 
and that would be acceptable. object to his use of the Dome I know I repeated myself a few with the football players since times as to the changes th at on the 2000 football media were agreed upon." guide the football players are 
Fitzpatrick said he was puz­before the Dome in a design zled that the University would similar to his original design for The Shirt. 
"I was frustrated because the school is inherently Catholic and known for football so it was frustrating not to be able 
see SHIRT/page 4 

blood." 
Dougherty cmnr: across a job op<'ning advertisement for a rector position at Notre Dame in the National Catholic fleporlPr and she said it seemed like a great idea. Evim though she enjoyed her work at the university of Tampa and with the i\!DS ministry, she was anxious to experience a campus with a strong religious foundation. 
"It's nice to get back inLO an academic field at a r.atholic college," Dougherty 
she said. "I don't mind challenges berause I think that r can learn from people." 
/\!though Dougherty gained wisdom from the wide rangP of experiences in her life, she hopes that she can continue to learn while at Notre Dame. 
"I think I can karn from the students, and hopefully l can share with them my experiences as well," she said. 
Dougherty is focused on establishing more service projects through the dorm. 
page.: 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, August 31, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Except acceptance 
Collcgt'. t\s a highschool studont I would think about that word and what it mr.ant f'or hours. I had spPnl my whol11 li!"n going to school. studying. prt>paring for thn opportuni­ty to attain somr.thing mor<1 -the path to knowl<1dg<•. This is not 
knmv!Pdg1i in thP form or nrnmorizing far.ts and r!11•tori1·. but a knowlr.dgr rrntrrr.d on rxprrirncr.s, a qtwst to rndnfine and qunstion all tlrnt I am and ,Lil that othPrs rnay or nmy not b<•. 
I 1·ould not wait lo Pntnr 

into a ltwPI of trulv mean­ingful convprsatio~1 about  Kiflin Turner  
things that n~ally matter.  
finally h~aving b1·hind the  
onn-dinwnsional. materi­alistic riont>s or tlrn high  Copy Hdilor  
school world and moving  
on lo pcopl1· who actually  .  

had p1m;onality. intnrnsts. and most of all, 
substanr<'. 
What I l'ound was a little morn than disap­pointing. I lt>arnNl on!' or my first !P.ssons on tlw ways of Ow rf'al world -peopin and idr.als ani prl'lty much tlw sanrn wherever you go, wilh nothing changing n:1,c<'pt thP scenery surrounding us all. 
/\s a l'n•shman last year, I recalled my first fpw days of rlassl's and how I thought to mysnll" how Lht> studnnts hnrn were morn suptir!kial than my high school p!'Prs. I ll!Hiariheu lwn· in my newfound perceived playground of fre1\ and unlimited thought that many wr.n• so nngrossr.d with Urn idPa of bt•com ing llHll"I' Ii kn the 1wx t person u n ti I l'V('ntually tlrnir own snit' b1icam11 lost in a muddl,~d world of pointless transformation. 
J\nd now. a yr.ar latr.r as a sophornori~, not much has changed, exr-Ppt mayb1\ a new fad or a new typn of hairstyln. To actually bPliflve that clothes makP thn pPl'son along with the wallPt insidr. tlw designer joans is sad. 
Wu an• all b1•auliful. and we all naturally b1dong, for WP wt•re all r'.rnatnd by tho same Spirit. WP all have a voice. not intcndc~d to drown in conrusion amcmg thoughtless chat­ter. To n'.c·ogni.rn this voir1' as the most importanl distinguishing factor and to brnak rree of tlH\ ft•ar that entanglr.s both weak and strong is discovcrin,g frr.cdom itself. 
It is n tragedy to witnnss thosn who wAar masks to r:oncral rnality. I oncn bclilivcd that collnge was all about accnptance. Now I'm not so sum. I am now indin11d to think that it is most.ly acceptin,g that we musl twist and contort our bodies to IH this mold of a prn­dPtcrminPd idoal of a worthy person. Thn hypnotic rnpnlition, th11 sound ol' an army of l"ootstPps. all marr:hing lo thn same dPstina­tion towards a fabricated mirngc is disb,iart­cning to sci'. 
Not nvnryone a.t this Univnrsity tits the hlnak dtisniption from abovn and many arn hnr,i to a"tually PXpPrinncP thn unfamiliar. the dwlknging. and even the frightening asr,icts of lif11:. I hnard somrwhcrn along thP way that ev11ryday you shou Id do som1-1thing that scams you. It works, 
"II' ,l n1tt11 ·dons not kePp pan' with his 1'.om­panions, pnrlmps it is becausn he hears a dif­r,•rent drumnwr. L<•t him step to lhf' musir which lw hnurs. hownvnr measured or far away." -llnnry David Thornnu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column arl' thmw of thl' author and not necessarily those ofThe Onseroer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Frin L1Ruffa Marr Nania Helena Payne Graphics Courtney Boyle Dana Mangnuson Sports Kathleen Annis 
Kevin Berchou Production Viewpoint Noah Amstadrer Pat McElwee Lab Tech 
Ernesto Lacayo 
Th< Observer (l.'~l'S 599 2-/4000) is puhli,hcd Mnnday 1hmu~lt Friday C'XLt'pt durin~ ('X,llll ,IHt.i v,u.:-.nion periods. The:-Obsc-rvrr is .1 member of rhe­Asi.ot1.11('d Pr("S5. All rcprodt1l'.rion rip.hrs .trC' reserved. 
THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 
TEXAS A&M UNIVERSITY 
School policy angers gay activists 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 
Jubilation quickly turned to anger and frustration among gay student activists at Texas t\&M Univflrsity after A&M prnsident Hay Bowen did an about-face and rescinded a new clause in the 2000-200 l student rules that would prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual oriPntation. N11w rules were posted Aug. 15 on the stu­dr.nt rulr.s Web site, listing sexual orientation as one of thn protected catr:gories covered by anti-discrimination policy. But gay students had little time to savor thflir vic­tory -within 24 hours. the sexual orientation clause was removed and the previous wording, which does not list protectPd groups. was rninsr.rt1~d. "IAdministratorsI havn made no attempt to explain what happened," said Jordan Davis. president or Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Trnnsgendorod Aggies (GLBTA) and a junior English major. "We wanted a commitmnnt in writing bncause all WI' have now is thr slaveowner's word that he won't beat the slave. and. just as slaves don't trust the mas­ter. Wfl don·t trust the university." 
V,a A.ssocraled Press Graph«:sNst 
Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
. Fundraiser: "Coach's Car . Book Signing: "Monk's . Film: "llnar Window," +Art: ·"Harniro Hodrig-upz 
Wash," 11 a.m. to 1 p.m.. Ho!1ections, A Vinw from 9 p.m.. J\nnnnbPrg Hxhibit.ion," all day, 
Gold l;inl<l parking lot, west the Domo" with author Auditorium. Snitn 230 McKcnna I lall. 
of lick Basnball Stadium. University Prosidnnt Museum. . Mass: Spanish Mass 
. Lecture: "Vulnerability of Edward Malloy. 4 to 6 p.m., . Breakfast: "Mdntosh for (La misa r.n nspanol). 
lntrrnational Migrants," llammos Bookstorr.. Govnrnor Breakfast." I :30 p.m.. 
4 p.m.. llesburgh Cr.nt11r 9 a.m.. Stapleton Lounge, Keenan/Stanford Chapel. 
for International Studies. Saint Mary's. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Duke, NACS forge compromise with Varsity 
DUHIIAM. N.C. 
NACS -an association of 3.000 col­
Studr.nls can now expnct more text­lcge bookstorns. including l)uke books at advertised disc:ount rates University storns and thl' Book thanks to a compromisn made narlinr Exchange in Durham. ThP Nt\CS con­this month bctwenn the National tended that Varsity made false and Association of College Stores, Inc., and misleading adwrtiscnrnnts about the thn Varsity Croup Inc, -the parent discounts that onli11<1 retailnr o!forPd. r:ompany of Varsity Books.com. A Washington court dismissed on1• 
The sr:itlf'ment agrres that Varsity, of' thn two al!Pgations last f'all. and one of the nation·s largest on line tr.xt­Varsity r1·pn1sentativns insist that the book r<1tailr.rs, will no longer advertise scttlenrnnt of tlw second will haw lit­disr:ounts as high as 40 pr,rcrnt unlPss tlr. f1ff'nct Oil tlw comrany's goal or 10 percent of' the books it sells am providing alfordablr. t1•xtbooks for stu­actually being sold at that disr:ounted dents. rate. In addition, 10 pr:rc!'nt or the public relations for NJ\CS. ''Instead of' "This suit and sr.ttlmnnnt will havn sold books at the maximum discount being told you can buy at a 40 p!'rcent no ovnrall nffnct on busirrnss." said must bt• books currently in us1• by col­discount, you'll actually understand in Varsity spokr.srnan Sam I !Pilnnr. lege professors. advance what kind of' things you 'rn Thn c:urrrnt agwement rontains no 
"It has alwavs been our belirf that buying." admission or guilt or liability by their claims h'ave benn misleading." This brings to a close\ a nine-month Varsity. but Nt\CS mnmbcrs am said Laura Nakoneczny, director or legal dispute between Varsity and the dnclaring thn SPttlPnrnnt a victory. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast Al.'n1Wt':1ther 'J-i.nec.t~t for d.wrime t:ondiriom ,11,d hi h tern "ler:1tures  
H L Thursday ~ 94 70 Friday ~ 89 68 Saturday ~ 82 66 Sunday ~ 83 65 Monday ~ 81 62  

The AccuWeather<l" forecast for noon, Thursday, Aug. 31. 
Os 
~ 
90s 80s 
FRONTS:
eos-t),

6 s ........... ....,.-....

~ 

<Cl 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. CD/.0 WARM STATIONARY 
Pr••aure: 

® © D D D D D D 
High Low Shower ¦ Rain T-•torm ¦ Flurrle• Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Assoc,stsd PttJ!ll!J 

Albuquerque 88 63 Denver 81 52 New York 81 72 Atlanta 86 75 Detroit 81 68 St. Louis 91 73 
UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH FLORIDA 
USF responds to racism allegations 
TJ\Ml'A. Fla. 

After six days of' media r:overagc about allngations of racial discrimination on tfw wonwn's baskPtball pro­gram, the University or South Florida rnl<1ased a state· mcnt defending itself' for tlrn first time Tuosday. USF has recf'ived criticism since f'ormr.r baskPtball playnr Dione Smith sued tlw university for racial discrimination. Tucsday·s stat<1mnnt said USF disr:ouragcs intoi<1rancn and will take action ii" an internal review shows any exists. It also said the Equal Opportunity AITairs ortic() is reviewing an allngation brought by a l'ornwr baskntball player. But because sbn is still a stud0,nt. the liOJ\ could not release hnr name or commPni on the romplaint. "The University of South Florida embraces diversity and will not toleratP discrimination in any form." Lill' stat(!· mnnt read. "If there is evidence of' wr;mg-dning, USF will take corrective action." According to llarry Battson. Lim associate vice president ol' public'. affairs. Uw statPnwnt was sent out to tho university community via n-mails. laxes and the univorsity W11h sitn. 
Boston 73 59 Los Angeles 68 64 San Francisco 61 55
Q,Q,~9GQ (f ~ d 
Chicago 84 66 Miami 90 77 Seattle 61 55 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Dallas 99 82 New Orleans 95 79 Wash DC 81 72 
----------, 
~ 

Thursday, August 31, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Renovations transform Fisher Hall's reputation 
Fisher's sister dorm, Pangborn.
. University plans to 
According to Murray, students and staffrenovate Pangborn of the hall am beginning preliminary next summer mnetings to determine what elements 
need spncial attention. 
"We usually try to gel the rector, some Bv FINN PRESSLY of the staff and some of tlrn students ­A~sistant News Editor usually those in hall government -and 
see what kind of' things they would like," Murray said.
It usnd Lo Im said among residents of' 
After Pangborn. Murray could only
l;islwr I !all that tlwy had tlw best spirit speculate which dorms would come next.
but thn worst dorm. 
"We may just finish out South Quad"Now we've got the best of' both," said and do Dillon and Alumni." she said,
f<islicr rnsidPnt assistant Stnv<i DohArty. 
adding that dorms are reevaluated year­"WP went from being onn of' the dumpi­ly to address any pressing concerns thatPst dorms on tlw campus to being one of 
may prompt Facilities to turn its atten­tlw nir.Pst." 
tion to a different building. 
Fislwr unc!Prwcnt a full rnnovation this 
Fislwr Hall was not the only dorm
sumnwr that inrludPd n·pladng cnrpet. 
involved in remod­windov..-s. doors and lloor 
eling this summer,
ti IP. acrording to 
how,wer.
llPborah Murray. man­"vVe werzlfrom being one 
"We actually hadagpr of' maintPnan<'.C and 
of the dumpiest dorms on 
14 buildings thatprojPrts for Farilitins 
the campus to being one still did not have
OpPrations. 
sprinkler systems.
Many of' tlw rooms in ofthe nicest." 
After the fire at
Fislrnr bore the remnants 
Seton Hall. theof a past rnnovation, 
Steve Doherty University took a
wlwn tlw walls betwe<'n singles were partially 
Fisher resident assistant serious look at that," said Murray. 
knockPd down to c:rPate 
Three students
doublPs. l)u1·ing this 
wern killed and many were injured in
summcr·s rnnovation. the remaining 
the Jan. 19. lire in a freshman residence
walls w<~r<• rPmoved -something 
hall at Seton Hall -an im:ident lhat
Doherty says \Viii dramatically incrnase 
brought about increased fire safety
tlw availab!P floor space. as well as allow 
awareness on college campuses across
!'or morP <TPativity in furniture arrange­the country.
mnnt. 
Six dorms have already been outfittedThough Murray was unable to disclosn with sprinklers: Alumni, Breen-Phillips,how much tlw r~novations cost, she nsti­Dillon. Howard, Lyons and Pangborn.
mated thal tlwir current budgnt would Sprinklers will be added to two dorms
allow tlwm to refurbish approximately over Christmas Break and the remainingtwo dorms nvnry thrnc years. 
on tlw list for renovations is will be completed next summer.
NPxt 
SMC alters judicial process 
was not being utilized," Brennan. "'\.1any of the
By KA TIE MILLER 
said Sara Scalzo. miniscule problems can
News Writer 
LeMans Hall director. become very time con­
The school hopes that suming when you bring
Saint Mary's College an increased use of the in .I-Board." students who violate board will make stu­Some students said school rules will face a 
dents more conscien-thfly would rather meet new judicial process this 
tious. with their 
fall. "We 
hall direc­In the past. the stu­f c e I 
"We feel that students tor to dis­
dents charged with rules t h a t 
cuss a

will learn more from 
violations had the choire S 1 ­
U violation. of being rnviewed by the cl en ts sanctions given by "I foe! Student Judicial Board 
w i 11 their peers. People who that the 
or the residence hall 1car n school
have gone lo J-Board
director. more 
should 

Now, when a violation r r () m have learned give us of a College regulation s an r -t h e
their lesson. " 
occurs, "the residence tions option,"hall director determines 
given s a i d 
if the rase will be heard b V Sara Scalzo juniorby the Student Judicial the i~ LeMans Hall director Michello 
Board or herself," peers. Chandler. according to the Student People "A lot of' llandbook. who have gone to J­people do not feel com­"The hall directors Board have learned fortable receiving sanc­
will make the decision their lesson," said tions from their peers." case by case. Most cases Scalzo, adding that she "Initially, I wished will go to J-Board," said believes that the board that I had the option.Dana North, director of members will make use 
but it helps regulate pol­Residence Life. of more creative sanc­icy. It's a smart idea," Many reasons led the tions that are appropri­said junior Kathleen 
hall directors to ask ate for their fellow stu­Nickson. Linda Timm, vice presi­
dents. The board hears cases dent of Student Affairs, Students have mixed every Tuesday and 
for a procedure that fcolings about going Wednesday as needed. It would make more use of directly to lhe judicial consists or five to six the judicial board. board. 
trained students as well "There was a high "As a student, I would as a non-voting adminis­case load with candle prefer to have a choice," trative advisor, accord­
violations and J-Board said junior Mary ing to Scalzo. 
··.:·:•:· '' . •,:'•'• ,'._:,:/t(: ' ,,.,· :_ .. :: -.:=. .-. ,, '. ,.__ -,_,,•,• :. ,· 
Peerc'l'~te-T/4e-066e-1,,ve,1,,. 
.: , •,' ' . . . ·. 

ND AFTER FIVE 
Thursday, August 31 
5:30 p.m. Dillon Pep Rally, south auad 
7:00 
p.m. one Night Recsports Volleyball Tournament, Stepan courts 

7:00 
p.m. Africentric Spirituality-Freshmen Intro: Partner's Reception, Reeker's Hospitality Room 


9:00 p.m. Acoustic Cafe, LaFortune student center Huddle 
10:30 p.m. SUB Movie, UGladiator", DeBartolo 101 * and SUB Movie, "Erin Brockovich", DeBartolo 155* 
Friday, September 1 
4:00 p.m. Shamrock Classic women's Volleyball Tournament: ND vs. Fairfield, Joyce center 
6:00 p.m. Football Pep Rally, Joyce center 
7:00 p.m. Voices of Faith Gospel Choir Welcome social, 115 Crowley Hall 
7:30 p.m. women's soccer vs. Tulsa, Alumni Field 
8:00 p.m. SUB Movie, "Gladiator", DeBartolo 101 * and SUB Movie, "Erin Brockovich", DeBartolo 155* 
9:00 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "Rear Window", Snite Museum* 
10:00 p.m. SUB Loft Show featuring The Elms (high energy rocl<J, LaFortune student center Ballroom* 
10:30 p.m. SUB Movie, "Gladiator", DeBartolo 101 * and SUB Movie, .,Erin Brockovich", DeBartolo 155* 
Saturday, September 2 
7:00 p.m. Shamrock Classic, women's Volleyball: ND vs. BYU, Joyce Center 
8:00 p.m. SUB Movie, "Gladiator", DeBartolo 101 * and SUB Movie, "Erin Brockovich", DeBartolo 155* 
9:00 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "Rear Window'', Snite Museum* 
10:30 p.m. SUB Movie, "Gladiator", DeBartolo 101 * and SUB Movie, "Erin Brockovich", DeBartolo 155* 
*Denotes admission charge for NDJSMC students. 
Programs are subject to change without notice. This calendar is compiled by the Student Activities Office, 315 Lafortune Student Center. For up to date information, check out the ND calendar, Today@ ND at www.nd.edu or call Student Activities at 631-7308. To add an event to further calendars, please e-mail the details about the activity to sao@nd.edu. 

Service 
continued from pa~e l 
tin.inn• tlwir education and do pro bono work at tlrn samn tinm." 
In J'{JSJHHlSP, tlw Board proposnd sumnwr intPrnships funded by sources df'lNmincd bv th,\ law srhool Tlws(! lw1wf'actors. n;n~ing from indi­viduals to alumni groups. !ocat,•d 
"/ really loved being in Campbell said. "llacl I
Jolls and ho11sing iHTonmHHln lions not had this opportu­
court pvery da!J and 
for t!w stutlPnts nity, I might have had
representing people who
and also raisnd a to takn a non-paying $'.-l ,000-$4 ,000 would not be able to legal position and do stip1•ml l'or Pach afford an attorney something else. liko participant. waitressing to pay the
otherwise." 
hilts. But because tho providing Lhn Alumni Club of inlPrns with Kristina Campbell Cincinnati supportnd 
valuaiJII' hands­
In addition to 
me, I was able to work
law student 
mor!' attorney advocatns to assist in legal aid ollices. Evnn with a wlativ1i!y large staff, we wPre unable to take all Lim cases wn wnutd have liked," Harton said. 
Both students Hxpressed gratitudti for tlw opportunity to take part in tlw project 
"I folt cx.trnmcly privileged to work with competent. compassionato attor­m~ys who realty bo!inv<•d in thoir work and who viEiwPd it as their calling.'' 
on n x 1wri"11 re, thf' opportunity also strnngtli­1!111id tl!Pir commitnwnl lo public intcn•st law. 
Law stud1•111 Kristi,rn CampbPII said thal working with tlrn llamilton County l'uhlic Dcl<·nclPr in Cincinnati rPa!lirmed lwr pnst-gradualt! plans. 
"I rPally lovNI boing in court ev,iry day a11cl rnprnsf'llling 1.rnople who would not OI' able to afford an attor­ney otlwrwisP." she said. "I also real­ized that it is possible to do public internst law as an alternative to work­ing for a. firm after graduation -you have to Im willing to make some sacri­fices to do so. but it is incredibly rewarding work." 
Law student Kevin Barton, who worked for Multnomah County LPgal Aid in Portland, Orn., was involved in nunwrous aspncts of cases, including rixtm1sivn legal rnscrnrch, writing on various legal issuP-s and client corre­spondence. 
"I quickly discoV(·!rPd Urn mrnd for full-Limo at tho Public 
l>l'fondcr and concen­
trate on my work 1.hnrc." 
"The opportunity was made possi­bl1\ by Lim gmrnrous 1rnlwork of ND alums -a nntwork that strPtdrns as far away as Oregon," Barton said. 'Tm thankful for the opportunity to spend my summnr at Legat Aid not only lwlping otlwrs bul. also continu­ing to learn more about lhe law." 
Due to the overwhelmingly positive responsn, Matlingly said that ho hopns the program will grow in the future. 
"We hope this becomes an institu­tional thing, like the CSC (Center for Social Concerns) summer service pro­jects for undergrads," he said. "Half of the cities from this year have already renewed their participation for next summer, and we hope to expand to include morn places and students. This program exemplifies the best Notrn Dame has to offer -exception­al teaming opportunities combined with the social service tradilion." 
Shirt 
continued from page I 
lo use tho Dome," he said. 
Fitzpatrick redesigned Thn Shirt with tho changes Im had discussed with Beauchamp. I lowev11r, Fitzpatrick said he was surprised when he found The Shirt in the bookstoro that rlicl not boar his design. 
"In mid-April Neil and I spoke and I notified him that a University officer had not approved the changes and The Shirt committee had gone ahead with another design," said llnatusko. J\t that point, lhP projer.t was b1~hind schedule. Normally, for The Shirt committee to roach its financial goal of' $200,000 it is in the bookstore in lime ror the Blue & Gold gamo with production bnginning on Tim Shirt in mid to late March, said llnatusko. 
"This year, it was just the week of the Bluo and Gold game that everything was signed and sealed !'or The Shirt," she said. 
llnatusko said that she was not told whom the University officer was who had rendered the decision and was not given a rea­son why Fitzpatrick's redesign was not approved. 
"Perhaps it was that Urn design had not been modi­lied enough, but that's just an assumption," said 
llnatusko. "! think it is pretty obvi­
Beauchamp maintainPd ous whern tlrn inspiration that it had nothing to do !'or their design canw with the rejection of' tlw from, but t.lw rlnsign is just re-design. diffcrnnt enough that they 
"I gavn my opinion to can get away with thinking Neil regarding changes I it is their own design," lw thought should bo mado. said. "IStudnnt Aclivitins] But it was my opinion -did want nw to conw in n o th in g m!H fl • n o t hin g and gPl the money award­less," said Beauchamp. ed for the design to com­''From that point 011, I was ponsalo for thn hours and not involvod." work I put in but I hav1in't 
Fitzpatrick said he "1'1!lt acr.1ipted I.Im monPy." prnlty duped" at that Fitzpatrick said The point, espnciatly since The Shirt projoct snnms to b11 Shirt he saw in tho book­less student-run than most storn was would a design think.
"/ think it is prelly
close to "It is his own ohvious where the an odd but with mix of'
inspiration for their 
a change saying
design came from, but the
of' words j t is that read design is d([ferPnl enough s t ti • "Send a d n n t ­
that they can get away
Vo I In y r u n ,
with thinking it is their
Cheer 011 h ll t High." own design. " having "I went t h e in to talk admin­
Neil Fitzpatrick
to Peggy ist r a ­
senior

i 11 t i O 11 
Student Activities and she was adamant that it was their own design," said Fitzpatrick. 
llnatusko said when The Shirt committee found out they needed a difl'ernnt design, they devised the new slogan and sought student artists to r.oncop­tual ize a design l.o match the slogan. When that fai!r,d, thn committee used a graphic design by a Univr,rsily staff rnPmlwr that was from a postnr. Fitzpatrick disagrned. 
u I t i ­
matnly havo ovnrat! control," hn said. "It makes it an ineffi­cient projnct." 
Fitzpatrick said he will not buy The Shirt this y11ar. 
"No one who knows me has bought Tho Shirt yet and it still bugs me every timn t see someone wnar­ing the shirt," he said. "! had gotten good f'endback about the clnsign and folt it was pretty good so I gur\SS this is an opportunity lost." 

Leam more about career -· . opportunities at Deloitte & Touche. 
~~t· . 

fr ·Representatives from Deloitte & ·" Touche will be holding an information 1NL~ion on Thurs.' September 7th 
1J'i$? : '

ii' ,,~~ 4pm-5pm, Center for 
ir:,,.;.;' .. ,_ -. 

: , Continuing Education, Room 100. 
-~~ ·.· 

ease join us to leem more about 
,.-.<':·""· . 
· both full-time and internship portunities in the following areas: 
Tax Services Enterprise Risk Services Management Solutions and Services Human Capital Advisory Services 
We hope to see you there! 
•
The answer 1s the people of Deloitte & Touche 
Deloitte 
Iwww. us. deloitte. com I
&Touche 
Cl2CXJO Deloitte & Touche Ll.P Deloitte & Touche refers to Deloitte & Touche LLR and related entities. 
Deloitte & Touche ia an equal opportunity fir~. We recruit'. en:iptoy, train, compensate, and promote without regard to race, religion, creed, color, national origin, age, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, drsabrhty, veteran status or any other basis protected by applicable federal, state or local law. 
RL 

}
'i 
,)i, '";"i,_J: 
ATION 
Thur5day, August 31, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Rebels release British captives: 
Lnonn rnbel faction on Wednesday released fivn British soldiPrs hclrl captive in the coun­try's jungh~ interior since last week, officials said. Tlw troops were• "in British hands and on tlwir way towards Frnctown," said Lt. Cmdr. Tony Cramp, liH>. British l'orces spokPs11i:u1. Six otlmrs wen' still bclieved held by tlw snrn.11 rd.Jr\l l'a.ctinn, known as Lhe West Sidf' Boys. and thl'ir status was not immPdi­ali'IY t'l{;ar. "Wt! aro delightod with this devel­oprrwnt hut obviously our thoughts and con­<'Prns still rmnain vvith those bcing held." Cramp saict. "Talks ,trn continuing and we hop1\ for early rnl!ms11 or the remainder." 
God may rule Jerusalem: Israelis and Palestinians who have spent months wrangling over which side should control Jnrusalcm's holy sites arc turning their aLtPntion to an idea floated a l'tcr Camp David's failure: put God in charge. Tim pro­pos aI to declare God the sovernign over JerusalPm shriues is still tentative. but it has thn potential to hnlp d1-ifusP the most emo­tional dispute in thn Mideast peace talks. It has won tlrn guarded cndorscmont of .Jerusalem's hawkish Israeli mayor and a top Palnstinian official -marking the first time the two sides have found any common ground on how to share! the city. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Texas loses Medicaid ruling: With his sweeping rulings, William Wayne Justice forced Texas to desegregate its schools, reform its prisons and educate undocumented immigrant children. Now the liberal federal judge known for his soft-spoken style and fierce commitment to tlrn U.S. Constitution is taking on the state's Medicaid program. Justice, 80, ruled this month that Texas has not lived up to a 1996 agreement to make major changes in its Medicaid system. 
USDA focuses on food safety: The government says its overburdened meat inspec­tors spend too much time on jobs that proces­sors could do themselves, such as checking scalns and monitoring the water content of meat products, and wants to focus more on stopping harmful bacteria. The Agriculture Dr,partment. which has 7,500 inspectors, is responsiblr, for regulating a number of con­sum1:r protection rules that officials say have lit­tl1: or nothing to do with food safety. The department is considering allowing inspectors to spr.nd less timr. doing tests to enforce those rules. "W(•re trying to make sure that our rnsou1TPS ani dPvotPd to f'ood safety. That's our lirst priority," said Phil Der!1er, assor,iate deputy . administrator of CSDJ\'s Food Safety and lnspnction Service. 
Market Watch 8/30 
Dow 
]ONES  11103.01  -112.09  
lip: 1,408  Same: 518  Down:lfO  Composite Volume: 8 l8,440,800  
AMEX:  934.22  +0.74  
Na.~<laq:  4103.81  +21.64  
NYSE:  670.46  -2.98  
S&P 500:  1502.59  -7.25  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %Clli\NGE $GAIN PRICE­
CUMMI.HCI' llNf. IN 1\:,\lllCJ  t 2.0.7'1  +HUH  63.2~  
Ml< ·It1 l\l lf'T < :UIU' tMS~Tl  ·I. i2  .()_l)j  7()0{)  
!Po L:Nll'J 1,1\r , 1I1su,  -.!.0-K  -.L)ll  11n.o  
< :1sco SY:iTl· MS ic.\U))  -.00  -.1101  66'>6  
\~'()Rl.il( tlM Jt,;C cWl'.llMJ  -o.,,~  -0.24  .16.Jtt  

COLOMBIA 

Associated Press 
CARTAGENA 
In a country beset by decades of violence, President Clinton deliv­ered a $1.3 billion U.S. package Wednesday which he said would help Colombia defeat its drug traffickers without getting 
the United States into  a  
Vietnam-like quagmire.  
"We will not get into  a  

shooting war" with Colombian guerrillas, he said, standing alongside Colombian President Andres Pastrana, both in short sleeves in the swel­tering heat of this Caribbean port city.· 
Pastrana stressed that Colombia has no intention of drawing the United States into its military conflict. · 
"As long as Andres Pastrana is president, we 
will not have a foreign mili­tary intervention in Colombia," he said. 
There were reminders, during Clinton's half-day visit to Cartagena, of the fear and violence that bleeds this Andean nation. Police said they discovered and deactivated a 4.4­pound bomb found five blocks from a neighborhood Clinton planned to tour. 
Officials said the bomb was intended to spread rebel pamphlets and ,vould have been unlikely to cause harm. A U.S. Secret Service official, Terry Samway, insisted that only materials for explosives were found, not a bomb. 
In an unusual display of bipartisan support, Clinton was accompanied by House Speaker Dennis Hastert, R­Iil., and 10 other members of Congress. Hastert was instrumental in pushing the aid package through Congress, despite misgiv­ings by some who feared the United States would get drawn into the guerrilla conflict and help an army long criticized for human rights abuses. 
Clinton was also accom­panied by Attorney General Janet Reno, Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and Barry McCaffrey, Clinton's chief drug policy adviser -part of a delega­tion of 35. Daughter Chelsea also came along. 
"Why are we here today?" Hastert said. "Not only do we share a great heritage of democracy, but we also share a great bur­den" -the threat drugs pose both to countries that produce drugs and those that consume them. 
"In our nation, over 14,000 young people, chil­dren, lose their life every year to either drug use or drug violence, and it hap­pens in our wealthiest communities and the street corners of our most devas­tated inner cities," Hastert said. 

The U.S. assistance is part of Pastrana's $7.5 bil­lion "Plan Colombia," designed to end decades of civil war, fight drug traf­ficking, strengthen the judicial system and revive an economy in the dol­drums_ 
Pastrana called the U.S. assistance "a recognition that the menace of illegal drugs is truly international and therefore requires a concerted global response." 
Clinton praised the Colombian leader, who is foundering in opinion polls, and urged the Colombian public to "be patient with him" as he struggles to find a lasting solution to a guer­rilla war that feeds off the drug trade. 
Court convicts Neo-Nazis of murder 
juveniles. Reading the verdict Wednesday,
Associated Press 
German Chancellor Gerhard Judge J\lbrecht Hennig said the court 
HALLE, Germany Schroeder called the decision "a suit­concluded that the three defendants 
A German court convicted three able verdict for a heinous crime." killed Adriano soldy because of his neo-Nazis of beating an African immi­The case offered a glimpse into skin color. Ile said none of the three grant to death and handed down Germany's violent skinhead scene: rared whether Adriano would survive tough prison sentences Wednesday in Fueled by beer and illegal racist rock the beating. an attempt to signal that a "long chain music, it directs rage at foreigners and "It was the latest in the long chain of of attacks" on foreigners here must often revolves around the decaying attacks to which we must put an end," stop. communist-era housing developments Hennig said. 
The state r,ourt sentenced Enrico that dot the countrv's Past. "Animals show mercy to opponents IIilprecht. 24, to the maximum of life It was in a park i;1 Lhe eastern dty of lying on the ground, but rightist in prison. llis two 16-ycar-old co­Dessau that the three men brutally extremists apparently do not." he said. dcfendants, Christian Richter and beat and kicked 39-yoar-old Alberto "They arc pitiless, v,ithout mercy." Frank Miethbauer, were eacil given Adriano in the head on June 11. The defendants looked stone-faced srmtonccs of nine years -one year Adriano di~,d thr('e days latcr, leaving as the verdict and sentences were less than the maximum allowed for behind a wife and three children. read. 
page G The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, August 31, 2000 
Rectors 
continued from page I 
ers," said I )oughnrly. 
The wonrnn or lloward Hall 
ombracPd her imnwdiatnly, 
according to Dough11rty, am! 
hnlped her fonl wr,lcomc anrt at 
home. 
"The ){iris am upbt•at, motivat­Pd and caring," she said. "Therl' is a real s1rnse of community hem at Howard." 
SteelP-, the new rector of Morrissey, has a similar back­ground of community experi­ence in South Bend and in Hispanic ministry. lie worked for four y,rnrs at St. Steven's parish. a prndominantly llispanic church in South Bend. 
Ill' also helped inmatl'S n~cr,ive a Graduate Equival,~ncy Dogrofl at a prison in Virginia. St1~ele is nxdtNl to bn involvNI with an educational institution again, and says that his strong lins with tho Il()ly Cross commu­nity strongly inllunncnd his dflci­sion to conrn to Notrn Dame. 
"They have always bcnn a big part ofmy lifo," hn said. 
Strn~le also is a big sports fan and plans on being at most of tlrn l'oolball and basketball gamns. 
Steele. who enjoys spending timn outdoors and hiking, plans on organizing a spring break camping trip at some point in the nr!ar futurn. 
"I am really nxcited to work with young peopln," he said. "The guys arn really tight-knit at Morrissey." 
STUDENT SENATE 
Group looks to accomplish 'great things' 
By LAURA ROMPF Assistant News Ediror 
From establishing a Grab 'N' Go site al DcBarlolo to expanding the D/\HT (Direct AccAss Hegistration by Telephone) system onlinc, the Student Senate set several goals for thn year at their first meeting Wednesday riight. 
"I think we can accomplish great things," said student body vice president Brooke Norton. "We just need to get the groups together, be effi­cicmt and get things done." 
Norton also told the sena­tors to remember they are representatives of' their dorms and should make an effort tu talk to the students. 
"We need to be a cohesive team working to represent each dorm," she said. "We should not just worry about the number of accomplish­ments we have, but the quali­ty. It would be great to do a 

lot of things. but more impor­
tant is quality and execution." 
Each of the seven commit­tees offered a report of their agendas for the year. The committee on diversity hopes to distribute a survey to find out the general feeling on campus about diversity issues, said Brendan Dowdall, Dillon Hall senator. Dowdall also said the committee will look into the international students' orientation and why ethnic background is ques­tioned on teacher course evaluations (TCEs). 
"It shou Id not matter what race a person is." Dowdall said. "And because there may nut be a large number of minorities in a class, a teacher could immediately identify who filled out that particular TCE." 
The committee on residence life set five major goals for the year, according to Zahm senator Ryan Becker. The committee hopes to work on Lafortune improvements, as well as security issues such as parking, lights and phones around the lakes. Becket also said the corn mittee will look into maintenance issues like clocks in O'Shaughnessy Hall. handicap accessibility and sprinkler systems. Finally tlrn committee will deal with din­ing hall and Joyce Center issues, he added. 
The committee on academic aff'ai,rs hopes to establish online DAHTing and have out­of-class requirements includ­ed in the DAHT book, said Kathleen Bufalino, Farley Hall senator, The committee also hopes to examine requirements for students studying abroad, tutoring for upperclassmen and faculty mentoring. 
The committee on University affairs will exam­ine centralized tutoring, the quality of Cincinnati Bell Long Distance's Broa.dwing, lfoalth Services and the surplus of the Generations Campaign, said Welsh Family llall s1rna­tor Bethany Barker. 
Kelly Bush. Howard Ila!! senator, said the committen on ethics is hoping to work on revamping thn nlnction process because of violations that occurred last year. 
Margaret Clarke, Lyons sen­ator, said the committee on gender issues will address 24-hour space issues as well as creating a packet f'or freshmen about various issues ranging from sexual 

assault to eating disorders. 
Audra Ilagan, Pasqtwrilla West senator, said the com­mittee on oversight has set their agenda for tlrn year and has already made outside contacts. 
"We're looking to do some constitutional updates," Hagan addnd. 
Overall Norton is optimistic and hopes this snnate will make a tangible dilfornncc in campus life. 
"I hope this year we can help the University and bo a voice for the studnnts." she said. 
In other senate news: 
. 
Veronica Knssenich was nominatnd to be nxncutivn cabinet representativn to the studnnt senate from Saint Mary's. 

. 
Student body prPsidm1t Brian O'Donoghun inl'ornwd the senate that the Hector's Fund is now in operation becausn it receivncl final approval from the Financial Management Board. 

. 
O'Donoghue also urged senators to attend a forum to discuss concerns about the football ticket. distribution at 5 p.m. in the Foster Boom. 



Thursday, August _) l. 2000 7he Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Prof: Internet collapse is plausible 
Br KIFLIN TURNER 
'-vw1 \X•'rit,·1 
Lrnwing f'Pars ovnr a suddPn col­laps,· of' tli<· l11tnr1wt is not just an unn·rlain qu"stion. but it is a plausi­bli-Pv<•nl that rould !Pad to mass 1·111111111111il"alion l'ailur<', said assol'.i­a\1• prol'nssor uf' physil'S. i\lht'rl­
l.as1.l11 Barnliasi. 
11 ii r a b a s i cl 1' Sn iIi<' s t lw \\urld \Yid,· \\'1•!1. 11r th<• lnt1•rnPt. 11s a ,·ompll'X sral1•-l"r1•1• 11Pl­l\"11rk that has 11111ltiplP 11od1·s. or plan•s whf'rl' links lo oth,•r silPS 11rP initial-I'd. 
('lirks away. For tht\ avnragc lnl!1riwt usnr. clicking l<J tim1is is sti 11 tedious and ti nw ('on s urning. Thus nodns or search engines such as Yahoo and Lycos bncome thn high-trnllic hubs for most lnte1rnf't 
usr•rs. 
"/\ nocl1• is linkPd with higher 
probability to a nod(• lhat already has a larg<' numlrnr of connections." said i.lrc always expanding," said Barnbasi. 
"If' a ll(Jdl) brnaks down, vou can find another routn: them ar~1 lots of other paths to take." 
An occasional failurn of a ·random node is not wluit is potnntially hrrrm­ful, said Barabasi. "You never break the systnm -you dtll1at11 it." 
lnstf'ad. it is wlwn highly frnqunnt­ed 11od1)s am targetnd that low sur­vi vabi Ii ty occurs, Barabasi said. Considnn•d tlrn "/\chilies !me•! of' ti][) lntnrn1!t," high traffic sites urc the w1wknPsscs of the Wed}, Barahasi said. 
Barnhasi buscd his conclusions on thr. idea of' "compl0x systPms mad11 or many non-idcntica! nodes con­nPctl'CI bv ct ivnrsn links." 
To understand the concept and behavior of complex networks, Barabasi s,iid 1h<' "nr,ecl to under­stand the topography of networks" am fundanrnntal in rnlating and obsPrving tlw fn)quenry ol' links nrndn bntwe11n other sites, and pin­pointing particularly busy silns that may lw l'asy targets. 
SMC group plans campus reinvention 
By AMY GREENE 
News Writer 

Saint Mary's campus will bl' "totally rPin­vr·ntccl." according to .Jed Ad11y, rncmb,~r of' the l'lanning-CommittPe, who nwt with Saint Mary's Board of Govnrnan('<' n•garding ,ww construction plans. 
"v\'n ar" about Pight months into tlrn procnss now," said J\d1iy A IWW dining hall will i)(' 0111' or tht: fpa­turns of the new construl'lion 
"Thnrc will he much higlJPr quality food, morn nffir.i1mcy and just a bcttl'r pla('n," Acllly said.-"The food will lw prepar1'.cl in front of you, rather than taknn from tlrn back room and placed in a stnam tray." 
In addition to the 1ww dining hall. tlrnrn will bn an outside picnic area, tn1Taces, courtyards and a fountain cPntral to cam­pus. 
"The bookstorn will bn largnr with nxlm1d­cd hours and will also haw a general book area with a Barnns & Nohln atmosphere," said :\de-y. 
ThNn are also plans for a nnw loungP with a capar.ity to hold up to 400, a new lncturl' hall and a copy shop, as well as a cal'I' and cybnr rnl'n. 
"Thn iclna is to creat<' a mon• wl'lcoming. inviting cnvironmnnt that 1'ncompassns moc!Prn dnsign without losing Saint Mary's 
tradition," lw said. 

Ad<'y and other nwmlwrs will bl' m<1Pting latPr today to discuss funding. Tim construc­tion is sclH•dull'cl to b(•gin in sumnwr 200 I. 
Other issuns tlw Board addrPSSf'd inrlucl<'d tlw Senior Formal, whi('h is plannPd to hav<' a "Mystnr:,: Location" and 1·n·shnw11 PIPctions to bP lwlcl in mid-SPple•mbm·. 
"You neuer break the system -you clc:/lale il." 
Albert-Laszlo Barabasi physics professor 
Barnbasi. 
B,•caus!' of' thnsr1 highly f'rcqtwntnd si leis. Barabasi lwlit•ws that ii' target­Pd hv hacknrs. tlrnsc sitns could cause other links to shut 
"lh1· \iiirld \\'id1· \\"Pb is a \"Pl'Y 1·11111pl1•\ !Wl\\'ork \\'llf'I'<' tllf' nndl's 111'1' tlw \\'11rlcl-\\'id<> clocurnPnts and 1111· links 11r1· llll' L'HI. links." said Barnlrnsi 
Bal'ilhasi 1'1,u11d that 011 avPragP. l\\o random \\'piJ sitPs arf' onl~ I 'J 
down. and thus lnad to a massiv1• domino effect in tlin bn,ak­
down of lntcnwt co1-r<'sponde1nce·. 
In addilion, the lnternd is rnntinu­ally growing and. in effPc:t, making a possiblP situation i111,r1•asingly worse in Uw PVl'llt of worldwidn disconrwc­
tion. 
"lkal 1wt,\orks am not static. th1•y 
Visit The Observer Online. http://observer.nd.edu 

lcome 

¦ 
Arthur Andersen would like to welcome the students of the University of Notre Dame & St. Mary's College to a new year of learning and advancement. We hope you made the best of your summer like the following students who took advantage of 
everything Arthur Andersen has to offer.  
Travis J. Alexander  -Chicago  Kellie A. Kane  -Cleveland  Amanda C. Sales  -Chicago  
Christopher B. Anderson  -Pittsburgh  Patrick J. McGrath  -Boston  Garett S Skiba  -Chicago  
John J. Barsic  -Pittsburgh  Angela-Michell Patrizio -Ft. Lauderdale  Joseph S. Soviero -New York  
Trisha A. Bollard -Denver  Brett J. Perkins  -Chicago  Jennifer M. Stirk  -Chicago  
Kathleen Coates  -Ct1icago  Charlie Prisco  -Chicago  Kate M. Tucker -Chicago  
Kirt A. Hartman  -Chicago  Meghan M Rogers  -Chicago  Nicole T Turnipseed -Chicago  
Michael P. Heinz -Chicago  Joseph M. Rutledge -Cleveland  Katherine M. Utz -Chicago  

If you are interested in a career at Arthur Andersen email your resume to the Notre Dame Recruiting Team at chi-campus_recruiting@us.arthurandersen.com. Or fax: 312-462-4369. 
Assurance • Business Consulting• Corporate Finance• eBusiness • Human Capital• Legal Servrces •Outsourcing• Risk Consulting• Tax Services· 
Not~: The services offered in particular areas may depend on local regulations. In some loca­Uonf., legal and/or tax; services are provided by Andersen Legal, the international network of law fim,s that Is associated with Andersen Worldwide SC. 
,) 
l\rlhur /\nd~rsen refers to the U S. firm of Arthur Andersen LLP and other members of the Arthur /\ndersen global clienl service network. ©2000 Arthur Andersen. All rights reserved. EOE. ARTHURANDERSEN 
pagl' K T/,f Obsm•er . ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, August .'\ 1, 2000 
=---===­
----==-:-------= .:.· ================================================================= ­
Is there a better word than 

? 
¦ 


THE 

announces FREE online classifieds starting Friday! 
Surf to observer. nd. edu 
to find all your furniture, dating, employment, tickets, , books and many other needs. 

observer. nd. edu 
' 
' 
I 
' ,,_ -­I 
• ~ 1.:.::. i: ~ • ::z: ~ ~.2' • 1L'!".~ _.._'!" • -.......,.e,...... • -:.,~--"'-.r'"'L"'i---r ..,_-,._..,.•,..-r • .. •.,""t~--!f"-:.-o•, .. °"'·• .,,....,. • .. • • • .., • "'t.,. • ;., .:; ~ .; ._,. • ""~•-"''!' !-~ "'!'~-~ •----......... • ........,,,....,..__ ,...,• .,. .._~~....~-~...,_.,t.~,,_1• ,•.,.;, ~••·,_,..'If"""""'---.... ~-t6'' 
Thursday, August 31, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
ND prof takes reins of coaching accreditation council 
Bv LIZ ZANONI 
News Wrirer 
Notre I>arne profrssor F. Clark l'owPr, who has con­ducted resnarch for 25 years in the arnas of moral develop­tnP nt and democratir, educa­tion, will now oversee sport organizations as they become an:rcclited coaching education programs by the newly estab­
lished National Council for Accreditation of' Coaching Education (NCACE). 
"There have been concerns about coaches because they are c:onstantly working vvith kids: they have the opportuni­ty to do both harm and good," said Power, an elected board member of th<' NCACE. 
As the number of kids par­ticipating in adult-organized sport programs increase, 
Power is aware of the effect "There is a temptation to do coaches have on the develop­anything you can do to win. ment of a child's psychologi­But to win in the right way, a cal, moral and social being. program creates ways to help Unlike teachers, who must be children develop," said Power. certifiPd to instruct in a class­Power brings his experience room, most coaches haVl'l few and expertise as assoriate established standards to fol­director of the Center for lo,1· while directing kids on Sport, Character and Culture 
the field.  at Notre Dame  
Al though there are no  "There is a temptation to  to the NCACE board position.  
sprcific or mandatory rcquire­rn en ts  do anything you can lo win. But to win in the right way, a program  The center, whose mission is to "create a sense of human  
established by NCACE, a program trying to  creates ways to help children develop. "  solidarity and concern for the common good that will bear  
become  F. Clark Power  fruit  as  learn­ 
accredited must pre­sent its organiza­tion's plan  National Council for Coaching Accreditation of Coaching Education board member  ing becomes service to jus­tice," encour­ages sports as an important  

and meet standards agreed key in character development. upon by a national council of "The center is trying to pro­coaches. mote coaching for the whole 
A NCACE "seal of approval," person throughout the coun­according to Power, will give try," said Power, who sees credibility and support to NCACE as another way to con­training programs committed tribute to the center's broader to assisting kids through effort. The center, which was sports. created last year, encourages athletes to excel in all areas of life and fosters service learning and community out­reach. 
''Notre Dame has an image or being committed to the ath­letes and their moral charac­ter," said Power. 
A Notre Dame faculty mem­ber since 1982, Power views Notre Dame's involvement with NCACE as a great oppor­tunity for the University to join with sports psychologists, sor,ial scientists and other specialists to exercise leader­ship in preparing coaches through training and educa­tion. 
Power, who is chair of the Program of Liberal Studies and -concurrent professor of psychology, is also a faculty fellow of the Institute for Educational Initiatives, which strives through its programs to improve the education of disadvantaged youths. 
The Villanova University graduate earned his master's degree in systematic theology from Washington Theological Union and his doctoral degree in human development from Harvard University. 




THE SEMINAR 
• 
Service-learning through various sites in Appalachia, October 15-21, 2000 

• 
One credit Theology course 

• 
Involves orientation & follow-up classes 

• 
Past participants in Appalachia Seminar are encouraged to appply as Site Coordinators 

• 
Presents opportunity to work, laugh, & learn with others 


The Appalachia Seminar during Fall and Spring break presents a unique service­learning opportunity. Students travel to a variety of sites in Appalachia which focus on issues concerning rural health care, the environn1.ent, "70men, children, and housing construction. Through hands on work and person-to-person contacts, students experience the cultural richness of the area and begin to understand and 
I analyze the social forces that influence the Appalachian people. 
I 
I' 
APPLICATIONS 
Available at the Center for Social Concerns Due date: Thursday, September 7, 2000 10:00 am $40 deposit with application 
(non-refundable if accepted) 
INFORMATION NIGHT 
Monday, September 4, 7:30-8:00 pm @ CSC 
FURTHER INFORMATION 
Steve Recupero, Student Task Force Co-Chairperson, 634-1217 Allison Reilly, Student Task Force Co-Chairperson, 243-1842 Center for Social Concerns, 631-5293 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 ossiRVER Thursday, August 31, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
I'll !lox Q. Norr< ll,,mt. IN 46~% 024 ~<>11th l1111111~ 11.,11. Nott< ll.un,·. 11'< 4f,'i'if, 
Ennoll IN CHIEF Mike Co11n11II)' 
MA1'AGJNc; ED1To1< BusrNt~~s MANAGFH N,,r,·cn ( iilk·,p1c Tim I..me 
A\ST. MANAGING Fl>ll"Olt OPEl<ATI0NS MANAGER llu.111 Kessler 
NEWS EDITOR: A11nc Marie M.1tti11i;ly V1EWl'OINT EnnoR: Lil., H.tui;her SrotffS Enrrcm: Kerr)" S111i rh SC:ENE EDITOR: Am.md.t (ircco SAINT MARY'S EonoR: Moll)' M.:Voy l'II0T0 EDITOR: Eliz.1hcrl1 Ling 
AllVl'.RTISING MANAt.ER: l',I! l'ctcr, Al> Dl'$1GN MANAGER: Chris Avil.1 SYSTEMS Al>MINISTRAT0lt: Mike ( iunvi lie Wl'll AllMINl.'ffRAT0R: Ad.un Turner CoNTR0U.ER: Bub W()(1ds GRAl'IIICS EDITOR: Jose Cucll.1r 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL )Nm... ..... .631.7471 FAX... .. ....................63)-(,927 AnviRTl-'>ING...... .... .. . ... . . .................631-6900/8840 
observcr0d.uwi 11.~c. nd .cdu 
EDITOR IN \.HJEF  ..631-4542  
MANAGING FDITOR/AssT. ME.  ......631-4541  
BllSINE55 OFFICE...  ·······..631-5313  
NEWS...  ..... 63 l-'i323  

observer.ohsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWl'0INT. .................................. 631-5303 observer. viewpoint.l@11d.edu SPORTS. .. . .... ... ... ..631-4543 ohserver.sporrs. l <!!'nd.cdu SCENE... .....................(,31-4'i40 ohserver S(ene. l@'nd.edu SAINT MARY'S. ..........................631-4324 ob.,erver.st11c. l@11d.edu PHOTO... .. . ..(,3 l -8767 SYSTEMS/WEIi ADMINISTRATORS............ ...631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visi1 mu Wd, sire .1t h11p:II/Jbmwr.11rl.rt!u for daily upd.ucs of l'.,uupus nl'ws, 'iaports, f~.uurc.s .uH..l oplnion columns. ,i, well .is c.moom. reviews and breaking news fro111 r!1t: Ali~oci.ued Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music t{n
weather for up·tl)•!ht' 
min11rt· forcl~1srs 
weekly student reviews 
advertise fo, poii~ics 
online features for spt·~ 
.md r,Ht·s of prinr .,d, 
c.::i,11 GllllJlllS uwcr.tg.c 
archives lo st.•,trch t~>r 
aboul The Observer 
to men rht' c,lirors ancl
.mides puhlishe,I .1Frer 
August I<J')<J 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhc imlepcndcnr, ,bilr ncwsp.1per puhlisll("d in print anti online by tlw srndents of rhc University of Norre [),,me du I.IC ,md Sainr Mary·s College. Editori,1I rnnrcnr, including adverrisemcnts, is not governed hy poli(ics of the Jdministr.1rion ofeither imtitu titm. The Ohscrver res,rves the right ro refuse ,ulverriscm<.·11ts h:tsc:d or1 Lonrenr. 
The news is reported .1s J~cur.1td)' .md objenively as possibk. Unsigned editorials represent rhc opinion uf dlt' majonry llf the Editor in Chief, M.1naging Editor, Assisr,tm M.m.,ging Editor ,llld dep.mmcn t editors. Commmr,mes, letters .md columns present the views of the ,mthors ,l!ld not ncccss,1rily those ofThe Observer 
V1cwpmnt sp,Ke is .wail.tble to all readers. The free cxp1·es.,io11 of .1II opinions through letters is encouraged. !.crrcrs to the Editor mu.st he .signed and mu.st indudc eont:irt infi>rm:1tion 
Q11r,1io11s ,,.,.,ml111g Obsrrorr policies should br dirm­rd to !:ditor i11 <:/,ir/Mikr Connolly 

As a service to Observer readers, I have appointed myself to monitor the daily paper in Hiverbend and lo correct misinformalion. This column is about some recent items. 
When the NCM assessr.d a two-schol­arship penalty against the football program last year. a local sporl'i scrib1\ wrote that "it's only logical lo assume" Coach I>aviH will nnd his statnd plan to isstw one walk-on football grant-in-aid per v1\ar. The writer statpd that the NCM pPnalty would therefore hurt only a desr.rving young athlete• instead of the football program. (Granted, this wasn· L as bad ,L<.; their prior story staling wn wf'rn losing five grants, but. it was a slam nevertheless.) I sent an e-mail to the Pditor of the local paper prot£~sting the unfitirrwss of' this prediction. I told him I knew Coach Davie to bf' a man of his word. I confidently prndicted that Bob would honor this plt!dge. I asked the cdi­lor if his rcportPr would apologizn to Coarh Davie. Ile said he would "look into this." Since the editor must have forgot­ten, I thought Notrr Dame f'ans might like the final score of this integrity test: Coarh Davie -l; local paper -0. 
While most fans are going to be keying on Arnaz Battle. Tony Fisher. Jabari llolloway. Grant Irons, et. al., I'm going to knep an eye out for linebacker Anthony Brannam, end Jor, Recendez and cornerbar,k Dwayne Francis, who are the thrne most rer,ent players to whom Coach Davie has awarded a foot­ball grant-in-aid. I'm also going to keep an eye out to ser. if the local papr,r prinl<; an apology to Davie. 
Speaking of walk-on 's. I was pleased to bump into frirmrr walk-on stars Brendan O'Connor and Jonathan Hebert recently. They may have been able to go to some­place like West Muncie Tear.hers' College and majored in recess, but instead they'll bt~ wrapping up mer,hanical engineering degrees this year, aftr,r submitting them­srlvHs as football cannon fodder for three years. lfobert madr. some imprcssive special teams and defensive contribu­tions, while O'Connor was an inspira­tional team member. I have no doubt about the success they will achieve in their lives. 

When I hoard that Molly Kinder would be trying out for the Irish Guard in 1991). I WPnt to watch the tryouts. She looked pn~tty good. but fell short of making the squad. Not long after, I happnned Lo see her lat 6-foot<~. with a pretty smile and bright rnd hair. shH's hard to miss!) and told her I thought she looked good in her tryout. 
I was very impressed with the altitudn she showed. She said she loved the expe­rience. She wont out of' her way to com­plinrnnt how the regular membPrs of'the Guard hclpnd and encouragnd her. I am pleased that Molly made the squad this year. She's going to be a grPat addition. 
Molly got some ink for hr.r trailblazing accomplishment. Unfortunatdy. the reporter for the local paper brought some of lwr own baggage into the story. The Guard corps is described as "shroud­ed in secrecy." lluh? The tryouts are in public, none of' the members wear masks, all of their names are rnadily available, and everybody can see them a mile away. We're not talking CIA here. 
Anyway, this reporter couldn't credit Molly for this accomplishment without throwing in a shot at this "ser,ret" organi­zation. The reporter stated, "Two former guards who are living outside South Bend had heard about her selection but had 'no comment."' Anonymous out-of'­town sources with "no comment" -now there's an item which neednd to bn in this story! An editor oncfl said to me, "This story needs more substance. Get me sonrn quotns." If I had brought back a "no comment" from an uncreditnd 
sourcn, he would havn had me sidling 
appl,is. 

A couple days ago, tlrn local paper ,L'iSured us that hoopstnr Jere Macura was indend bark in school. Tim reporter stated. "Some gunssed, that wouldn't happen." Just who was it who "guessed" this wouldn't happm1'? Yep. Thn local reportnr, hypothnsizing, basnd upon his own "logical assumptions." with no infor­mation from anv sourcP. This wnPk . .lr•n• told his f"ri£mds:"I camn bark bncausP I lovn Notre Damn." 
HPportnrs an' supposnd to writn sto­ri11s, not mak,· them up. !L's a shame this rulP didn't make tlrn local stylP book. 
Among tlw Notre Damn studPnts back on rampus worn a couple tall guys namnd Murphy and Ilf'ilrnan. Both put fortune (thrnf' million dollars or morP?) and l'arne on hold, so tlwy could lw part of the collegP PXpPrinncn a little longnr. Troy and Aaron showed charactnr and guts. Whaddaya bot that tlrn first tinw Troy scorns fpwnr than 20 points or sprains an ankh•. the !oral papt!r will have a story lwadline like "Murphy should havn Inn." 
Tnnnnssnn has rncruitPd a dorm room invader lstoppnd bPl'orn hn could commit the rapn he appPared bnnt upon); Florida Stale contirnws to fill up the police blot­ters in Tallahassen; Cincinnati baskntball is still looking for il'> first dngren earnnr since lhn 1980s; even Jon l'a.tPrno has sold his soul to a felon. Notre Damn, meanwhile. stands accusnd, by a national swimsuit magazine, of having high stan­dards and a tough schedule. And, il's too much to ask our local kny poundPrs lo say something in our def'nnse. 
The views expressed in lhis column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Cappy Gagnon, '66, can ·1 wail lo see Molly Kindrr come through lhe tunnel hefore the Irish knock of/Texas /\&M. I/is column appears every other Thursday. 
DILBERT 
.; 
.!: 
i. 
{ 
U) 
• 
i u. :, 
0 
0 
0 
"' 
11 
j_ 
,;:; 

SCOTT ADAMS 
WELL, THIS IS 
EMBARRASSING; THAT'S ALL I 
REMEMBER FROM 

_ _.,_.....,____ 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Journalism is the last refuge of the vaguely talented. " 
Walter Lippmann writer 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THF Thursday, August 31, 2000 BSERVER page 11 

GUEST COLUMN 
Life imitating ''Survivor'' 
DUHIIAM, :-J.C. 
"Survivor" is over, and this werk ,viii he the first Wrdnesday in quite a while that millions of' Americans won't find them­selves marooned around their television sets to watch the rwwest episode. It's kind of sad, really. 
For months, much of the American public 
Kevin Pride
had followed the saga, "leaving behind tlwir jobs, tlrnir loved ones and all contact wifh dvilization," to exist on that island with those people and to share in their joy 
The Chronicle 
and pain. 
Yes, tlw "ultimate human experiment" is linally over. The jury sounded off and voted for the "fat gay guy," Hichard Hatch {also dubbed "Machiabelly"), who drove away in a m'w auto with a cool million. And in tlw wake of this conclusion, a voyeuristic nation is left behind in the throws of Survivor withdrawal. 
Sort of. 
After all, most of' the castaways are being smothered by opportunities for public appearances and commercial endorse­ments, with a seemingly countless number of rumors and spec­ulation abounding regarding "who" is doing "what" for "whom." llere's just a small sample: A recent episode ofVH1 's The List featuring Gervase, Colleen, Greg and Joel taking part in a panel to decide the best "desert island albums" of all time, with f'cllow castaway Jonna mediating the panel discussion and host .lei'!' Probst appearing to read the final winners. Richard, Gervase. Jenna and Sue are scheduled to appear on Hollywood Squares next month. Ramona was a judge in last Friday's Miss Teen USA Pageant, and runner-up Kelly will guest-host an episode of Talk Soup. Humor has it that Sue is negotiating some kind of an endorsement with the World Wrestling Federation. And just when you think there couldn't be a better castaway/commercial deal tag team, it's reported that Rudy, the old fart who "doesn't know what MTV means," is being ronsiclen~d to appear in a Bud Light commercial. 
Such stretching of tinw. of' each castaway's "15 minutes of !'amti." will assurP tlw continued presence of "Survivor" in pub­lic cliscoursP, •\hich is, of' course, a boon for host-network CBS. What they might not have anticipatP.d was the immense cultur­al impact that "Survivor" had on the nation. Legions of fans clr<!SS<'d up in tropical garb every Wednesday for "Survivor" parties. Tlw show's interweaving, and often forced, plot lines became the primary topic of conversation around the water coolPrs. colfoe shops and break rooms of America. One starving artist took Pnterprise and painted "tribal art" depicting infa­mous sc.Pnes from the show, sPlling the works on eBay (thn lwst, 1wrhaps, !wing "Hudy applies lotion to gay Rich," a tiny livn-hy-s<\VPn-inch painting that drew a final bid of$530l. And a one-man band. nanwd "Thirty-Nine Days." (the total time spent by the castaway on the island) emerged, recording ridiculous. though adrnittndly funny, songs about "Survivor" npismks and posting them on mp3.com -the band has made morn than a thousand dollars to date on four songs. 
Which raises an nssm1tial question: \rVhy? 
What is il about stranding 16 strangers on a desert island, watching them work simultaneously for and against one anoth­er and ultimatc,ly tearing each other to shreds that is so enter­taining'? 
Woll, it probably has something to du with conflict and the deprnssingly sad pres1mce of it in everyday life. Archetypal con­/Jids, thP same mws llrnl lurk constantly here on the mainland, Pmcrgcd almost instantly on the island: old vs. young, men vs. wonrnn, corporatn vs. blue-collar, gay vs. straight, mental prow<1ss vs. physical ability, your lifestyle vs. my lifestyle and so on. 
In the end. thl' r<~al struggle wasn't so much surviving the unprPdictable terrain of island life. Rather. it was surviving the unprndictablc social climate that exists among human beings and is the product of human nature -the very same struggle that routinely aggrievf's and scourgi>s just about i>veryone, ,wPry day. The only difference is that their struggles took place on nalioual television and boy did it reassure millions of Americans every week that humans will still be humrrns. even on a desert island. 
After all, isn't it reassuring to know that, even far-removed 
from civilization, people v.ill still hurt one another, will still 
conniw~ and deceive, all for the sake of greed? Apparently so. 
'/'he views expressed in this column are those of the author 
and nol necessarily lhosP ofThe Observer. 
This column _/irst appeared in the Duke University newspa­
per, rhe Chronicle, on /lug. 29, 2000, and is reprinted here 
cour/1•:w of Ci-WIRF. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Announcing forum on ticket distribution 
Since the last official "Football Ticket Camp­Out" in thP fall of 1998. thtc administration of the University of Notre Dame sought to change the mechanism by which students receive their foot­ball tickets. In the wake of this decision, the administration appealed for student input. The outcome of this action was a collaboration between Student Government, the Class Councils an<I the administration. Following the 1999 event, which occurred within Notre Dame Stadium. students expressed discontent with the new "Football Tkket Camp-Out" system. Consequently, a commission was formed with administrntion officials and the Student Union. The subsequPnt outcome of this commission work came to a fruition with the Aug. 21 ticket distribution that occurred at Stepan Center. 
On the night or Aug. 21, some students arrived at Stepan Center perplexed and distraught with the new system. Areas of concern were far­reaching. For example, the dissemination of information for off-campus students appeared not to be readily available and the lottery for line placement was not explained adequately. Furthermore, the time element for picking up tickets was not as clear as it could have been. Each of these areas of concern was expressed that night to members of the Student Union. 
Accordingly, in order for the Student Union to better voice the opinion of students in the future, the Student Union will hold a forum concerning 
Upon hearing news of the admittance of a female into the Irish Guard, I first felt disbelief. I wondered how someone, in this case Dr. Kenneth Dye, Director of University Bands, could break a tradition that had existed since the Irish Guard's inception in 1949. At its incep­tion, the image of the Irish Guard was created and whether or not some individuals choose to accept it, only certain people fit into this image. 
The Irish Guard is one of the most visible and beloved traditions at Notre Dame. I still do not understand why Dr. Dye would choose to end this tradition, especially at the University of Notre Dame, a university so steeped in tradition that it is a vital part of the university's existence and consequently, is one of the most important aspects of the university to Notre Dame alumni and fans. Was Dr. Dye's reason to be "politically correct?" or to try to "fit in" better with some of the idiotic ideas lloating about in our society? These are hardly reasons to end a 50-ycar, time-honored tradition. I am sure there are some people who disagree with me and feel this was a good decision because it "promotes equal­ity." They are wrong. Although men and women should be treated as equals in our society, this decision does not "promote equality" and there­fore has nothing to do with th<' matter. Ending this tradition and forever defaming the image of the Trish Guard was the wrong decision. 
the recent and past events surrounding football ticket distribution. The forum will occur this evening at 5:00 p.m. in the Foster Room on the third iloor of the Lafortune Student Center. We invite each and rwery student to attend and offer input as to how to improve the ticket distribution system. 
ln some minds ticket distribution failed to run as smoothly as it could have. However, we would like to remember those individuals who tried to ensure the success of the event for their hard work. Specifically, we thank the members of the Notre Dame Security Police, Student Activities, the Notre Dame Ushers, the Ticketing Office and the planning commission. Finally, we thank you, the Notre Dame Student Body. Ticket distribu­tion in the wake of the administration's 1998 decision is an ongoing project to find the best possible solution for all those involved. We need and want your opinion; it is invaluable in order to make ticket distribution acceptable to every­one. Therefore, we again invite you to the forum tonight to help us in our quest to find the appro­priate solution. 
Brian P. O'Donoghue 
Student Body President Brooke E. Norton Student Body Vice-President August 30, 2000 

I do not feel sorry for the young lady selected to the Irish Guard or Dr. Dye for any scrutiny or criticism they may receive because they willingly broke a tradition and put themselves in this position. I do feel somewhat sorry for the other members of the Irish Guard because they will now find it difficult to continue their own tradi­tions with a female among them and will likely receive unjustified scrutiny if they should exclude her from any activity. 
In conclusion, Dr. Dye does a fine job with the music and marching portion of being Director of University Bands. However, he quickly needs to realize that traditions at Notre Dame should not be broken because they are so vital to the University's rich heritage and are held sacred in the hearts of all Notre Dame alumni and fans. Dr. Dye's decision is absolutely astonishing and horrific and causes feelings of anger and nausea to arise in myself and every Notre Dame alum­nus and fan to which I have spoken about this incident. Hopefully, Dr. Dye regrets his decision and soon understands how truly wrong his deci­sion was for the University of Notre Dame, the Notre Dame Marching Band and thfl Irish Guard. 
Anthony Farina 
Class of'99 August 30, 2000 


----·-­

M 
C 
ne E 
page 12 Thursday, August 31, 2000 
=========~....:.._::......:......:.._======-=================-..::.._;_=--=.==-:===============::.:--=--=.-.::.-:_:=_.::....:.~----_-_-_-_-_-_----=.:::-..::-_-_-_-_-_-_--___...:::_-=-============================ 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Comedic 'Kings' live up to their name 
lntlns tlrn con1rnclion successful black 
Hy MATT CACCAMO 
comics havC' with Uwir nngagml audi,~nce. Scene Movie Cririt 
Many times in this film, thn audienc,1 fods 
likn whooping and Jmllciring along wilh 11w 
Si11rP his lirst tlwatrirnl rPl,!ltsl' in I <J8h !ivC' crowd in CharlottP. wilh "Slw's Cotta llavr It," Spike: I.er. htLs Lee also succ,\ssf'ully prcscmts the back­b1!r11 clrnlh\nging audil'nc!'s and critics stage portion of cornf'dy rarely ser.n on with his rx1H•rimrntal styln and contPmro­IIBO or BET. Intnrsperscd with sections of' rary llwnrns. I lis IIPWPSI lilm. 'Tlw Original stand-up am small segm1mts showing thn Kings of Conwdy." prPSl\flls 111ovi1! critics off-stage int!'raction among the four cml!ff· with llw ultimal1· · tainers. vVP. so1) c1111u111lrum: how thnm doing a
"The Original Kings of
to rPViPW a t'OllW­radio talk show. dy show. playing cards and, ·1'1\rhaps more• so Comedy" in the case or than movins tlwm­Cedric the sdvus, 1,onindy is 
Entertainer, giv­LIH! most subjPctivP ing us a ba(·kstage an~a of' arts and tour of' his 
1!nWrtainmenL t\ out of five shamrocks 
wardrobe and sing!n jokn, h•t prn-porformance alo1m two straight Director: Spike Lee rituals. 
hours of them. is Starring: Steve Harvey, Bernie Mac, D.L. In fact. onc of' rnc1!ivPd with the funniest pieces
varying drgn•cis of' Hughley and Cedric the Entertainer of the film occurs 
e11joy11wnl and la11ght1!r, clPpPnding 011 lhn audinncn. 
With "Kings of Comr•dy," L1!e givns us lwo dislinct forms. This isn't simply a movin about a wnwdy show; it is both a moviP and a conrndy show at tho same time. 'l'Pchnically speaking, the film is a docunwntary of' a two-night event in Charlott1• !'naturing four "kings" of black conwdy: Steve llarvcy, D.L. llughlny, Cndric tlw Enll•rtainer. and lkrnie Mac. 
/\llhough these four comt-idians arc best known from stand-up shows such as "Def Comedy .lam" and "Comic View," Lee gives them a nnw vitality on the big screen by avoiding Urn static eamera and lack of style that tlrnsc\ cable comedy shows rely on. Using s1wcral diffcrent camera angles and focusing a good portion of the film on tho audicmcc's rnaction to the p1irformNs, Lee makns the movie audience fool lik!1 part of the show. 
"Kings of Comedy" wo11d11rfully illus-
in one of these off­stage piecr.s: at the conclusion, whnn tho four comics are discussing basketball on a playground court. 13ernie Mac gives a hilarious impression of Phil Jackson yelling out instructions to Scottic Pippen, complete with .Jackson's walk and talk. These short instances are priceless and serve to break up two straight hours of stand-up. 
\'\i'hile it is difficult to rate the pure comic valun of each performer, Cedric the Entertainer best captures the movie screcn. All four discuss the differences bntwcnn white and black America 'v\ith rel­ative ease; however, Cedric brings an ener­gy and multi-talented approach to his pcr­l'ormance that truly lives up to his nick­namo. 
Steve I larvey plays the comfortable host of tho show, making the most of the audi­ence by doing impromptu comcdy. 
D.L. Hughley brings a certain spark to an 

Photo courtesy of Paramount Pictures 

In Spike Lee's "The Kings of Comedy," stand-up comedians (from left) Bernie Mac, Cedric the Entertainer, D.L. Hughley and Steve Harvey deliver the laughs. 
otherwise typical routine that discusses, among other overplayed topics, the black Jesus, why blacks don't bungee-jump and the relationships in a black family. 
Finally, Bernie Mac splits from tho othnr three by making his piece a running criti­cism of his own life. His self-depreciation hits home with the audience, who is all too familiar with the hilarious instances of the everyday life he speaks of. 
Perhaps most important for all fpur men is that they make equal fun ol' whites and blacks. bringing a fairness and integrity to an otherwise obsce1w, vulgar routine. Tim film, in large part, is an introduction of those comedians to a wiclor, mainstream American audience, making it all tlm morP important for Loe to k<iep the film opcm to groups of varying race and agn. 
In "The Original Kings of' Cnmody," Lne has made a creativP, now docunwntary that only holps the comics dnlivor tlrnir routines effectively. !low wnll Urn actual jokes work must be left up to each individ­ual viewnr. From a filmmaking standpoint, Ler, can only bn praisml. 
WEEKEND RENTAL RECOMMENDATIONS 
Five films comment on America's political climate 
MATT CACCAMO . Scene Movie Critic 
/\s tlrn Presidential campaign heals up this Fall, hnrn are some rental suggestions for the best in political films. 


All the President's Men (1976) 

Famous l'ilm vnrsion or Bob Woodward and Carl Bt\rnstPin's investigativ11 work on llrn WatPrgate brnak-in. Hobtirl Hndforcl and Dustin llolTman play their roles to per­fection as young Washington Post reporters hungry enough to follow every h~ad in their pursuit of the truth. Director /\Ian l'akula sucPPds in crnating an intPrPsting history les­so11 as wnll as a moving invnsligative drama. 
AnldeaIHusband(l999) 
This lighthl'arlml yPI politically savvy l'ilm strikes at the !wart of political ethics -if it truly oxists. A funny, romant.ir film SPt in latp-1 CJth century England whirh fol­lows llw risn, and possibl,\ fall. of a supposedly young. morally fHlrP mPmlwr of parlianwnt. Good pick for those intnrnstnd in politics, romance or just an r.ntnrtaining, witty moviP. Starring Hupnrt Everntt, Mi1111in Drivn, Cate Bla11dwtt and .Juliannn MoorP. 



Bob Roberts (1992) 
Tim Robbins directorial dnhut casts himself as a right­wing Senatorial candidate who knows how to manipulate the audience and, especially, the media. This sharp. scathing satire of American politics succeods whern "Wag the Dog" fails. The film, whoso taglino mads "Vote now. t\sk questions later," is most effective wlH\11 it is relentlossly truthful about tlrn role of fact and fiction in political cam­paigns. 
JFK (1991) 
Absolutely riveting lilm about district attorrwy Jim Garrison and his gradual involvement (and eventual obsossion) with finding the truth about l'rnsident Konncdy's assassination. Full of startling scones and bravura acting; as dramatic movif'mak­ing goos. it's supnrb. Dirnc:tor Oliver Storw takns many libnrties with the facts of' the investigation, but undouhtPdly revP;ils Kennedy's death to be a product or a mass rnnspiracy. Political tlwmcs and moral cli!Pmmas abound in this Oscar-nominatPd picture. 
Primary Colors (1998) 
Dynamic adaptation of the political satin• by /\11onymous (Jcu• Klnin) about a Southnrn governor's l'n!sidnntial rac:,•. Tlw lilm portrays John Travolta's .lack Scranton as both a trnn IH\liPwr in p<iopln pownr and an insatiabln womanizPr who will do any­thing to covnr his tracks (Sound familiar?). Travolta is nxtraor­dinarily good in a Bill Clinton-Psq1w charactPrization and Elaine May's smart. l'unny and insightful sc:roonplay slwds sonrn light 011 behind-tlrn-c:urtains politics. 

Thursday, Augusr 31, 2000 page 13 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Jennifer Lopez enters a twisted 'Cell' 

Fortunately for Catharine, she comesBy V. YAN BUREN GILES 
in contact with a 7-year-old Carl 
'iccnc Movie C:ricic 
Starglrnr. It is through this child's nyes thal we discover the parenting 
Simply pul. "TlH~ C1dl" is "The tacticsofCarl'sfather.whothorough­SilP111·p of tlw Lambs" nrnnts "The ly believed in chastising his son with l.awnmowPr l\lun" during thr most brlts and sleaming hot irons. sadistic Tn'nt lfoznor music vidno you Cathari1rn knows any progrPss at all ran imagim'. To its crodit, thl' film is will be made lhrough lhe younger as bizarrn as it is creative and borri-Carl. Unfortunately, Catharine must f'ying. also deal with tho grown-up, more 
Tllf• story !'.enters around a psycho-monstrous Carl, who is twice as pathir killnr named Carl Sta.rgher who satanic and threatening in the paral­has invented a killing dcvicu modeled lei world. where normal rules of right af'tnr a glass prison cell. The mecha-and wrong don't exist. nism is fully automated and drowns Playing tho role of Catharine Deane its f'pmalc victims afh,r 40 hours. is Latin µin-up queen Jennifer Lopez 
Carl has committed numerous bru-("Selena," "Out of Sight"). All in all. la! murders of attractive young her heart-felt emotion for the little wunrnn throughout Urn country. AfLer boy is expressed well. drowning them in the cell. Carl per-Vince Vaughn {"Swingers," "Return forms a masochistic to Paradise") does a post-mortem riLual good job playing a and tlwn dumps the "The Cell" lukewarm FBI bodiPs ol"f highway agent, but the real ovt!rJrnsses. surprise perfor­
l't\te1· Novak is the mancc in the film FIH agent in charge comes from Vincent of' tlw investigation D'Onofrio (" Full and will neither outoffiveshamrocks Metal Jacket," "Men sleep nor listen to In Black"), who reason until he has Director: Tarsem Singh plays bad guy Carl 
apprnhended the Starring: Jennifer Lopez, Vince Starghcr. kilkr. Just as :--Jovak D'Onofrio shines is about to capture Vaughn and Vincent D'Onorrio as the nervous and 
his suspect, deeply disturbed Stargher falls into a comatose trance serial killer. The audience experi­from which he will never wake. ences his true acting prowess during 
Tim prnsent dilemma for Special every scene in the subconscious Agent Novak is that. before turning world, where Carl's most obscene and into a vegetable, Stargher captured grotesque thoughts become real. his last victim and put her in the cell. First-time film director Tarsem Stargher is the only person who Singh has an impressive opener with knows tlrn girl's location. and he ain't "The Cell." Singh first won notoriety talking. directing the R.E.M. music video 
The victim's only hope is child ther-"Losing My Religion," which won the apist Catharine Deane. who has mas-coveted MTV Video of the Year award tercd a form of therapy that takes in 1991. place inside a person's mind. Credit should also be given to the 
Sr.ientists have dfwelopP.d a parallel production and makeup designers for universe ccmtered on a person's imag-transforming Carl into a memorable ination. It is now up to Dr. Deane to movie monster. infiltrat11 Stargher's mind and find out Though the film is somewhat pre­tlrn missing girl's whereabouts. dictable. the costumes and special 
This is where the film gl~ts really effects are more than enough to leave interesting. As if Carl Stargher's mind a lasting impression on the audience. was not vile enough in reality. the Check this film out for an in-depth 

Photo courtesy of New line Cinema

audience now gets to see his most journey through the mind of a mad­
Vincent D'Onofrio and Jennifer Lopez star in "The Cell," a dark, disturbing sci-fi 
intense and demonic thoughts. man. 
mystery that succeeds in creating a truly demented dreamscape. 
Box OFFICE 
Teens still prove to be a powerhouse at the 

f Aug. 25-27 
box office, with the 
Movie Title Weekend Sales Total Sales
cheerleading comedy "Bring it On" opening in the top spot with 
1. Bring it On $ 17.4 million $ 17.4 million
$17 million. Wesley Snipes' thriller "The 2. The Art of War $ 10.4 million $ 10.4 million Art of War" shot into 
3, The Cell $ 9.7 million $ 33.7 million
second with $10.4 mil­lion. "The Cell" and 4. Space Cowboys $ 6.5 million $ 63.7 million "Kings of Comedy" 
5. The Original Kings of 
slipped to third and 
Comedy $ 5.9 million $ 21.2 million
fifth place respective­ly. The other newcom­6. What Lies Beneath $ 4.6 million $ 130.9 million er, the mob comedy 
7. The Replacements $ 4.1 million $ 30.8 million
"The Crew," was a bit of a fizzier. Next week 8. The Crew $ 4.1 million $ 4.1 million sees little challenge 
9. Nutty Professor 2 $ 3.6 million $ 110.1 million 
with the new 
"Highlander" movie 10. Autumn in New York $ 3.3 million $ 26.8 million and the romantic com­edy "Whipped" enter­­
Source: Yahoo! 

ing the fray. 
Photo courtesy of Universal Piclures 

r
r ­

Thursday, Augusr 31, 2000
The Observer . SPORTS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Sirotka's strong pitching pushes surging Sox past A's 
Asso~iateJ l'r~s• 
OAKLAND, Calif. 
Miki' Sirotka pitchnd sev1>n strong innings. .lose Valonlin put Chi!'H){ll in front wiLh a two­run singlP in tlw sPvt>ntb. as thi> Whitn Sox bPal the Oakland AthlPtics x-:t 
Sirotka !1:1-lOl limitPd Oakland to two runs ,tnd six hils. including it solo homer by Eri('. Ch aVe z ln th r. ro LI rth innin~. 
Thn Whit<' Sox scored l'our timns in tlw ninth to break op1'11 a tight game. 
Oakland had dosed to 4-:1 on Jason Giambi's Hill doubln off rnliPver KPlly Wunsch in the eighth. bul Bobby llowry rnplar,cd Wunsrh anti retired the next thnir batters to prn­st>rve thn lead. 11 owry got six outs for his sixth savP. 
Chicago strPtched the lead in th11 ninth, when Oakland's Jason lsringhausPn hit Magglio Ordonez with a pitch with the bases loadPd. then wa]kt'd llarold Baines to force in another run. Thr White Sox scored two more on Carlos Lee's HBI grounder, with Ordonez coming home on 
shortstop Miguel Tejadn's throwing Prror. 
Kevin Appit!r I12-10l limitnd tlrn White Sox to one run Lhrollgh six innings and thn J\thlPlil's were up 2-1 when the right-handnr ran into troublr in lh1' sevt>nth. 
Appier gave up cunsecntivc one-out singles to Chris .Singleton and Mark .Johnson and a walk to Hay Durham. 
.Jim Mecir replaced Appier and Valentin greeted him with a bloop single to shallow lnft. Llll't fieldtn Ben Grieve tried futilely to make a sliding catch. but the ball got past him and both SinglPton and Johnson scored. 
Frank Thomas singled to drive in Durham to make it 3-1. 
Appier allowed four runs and sr.v,~n hils in 6 1-3 innings. He struck out fivn and walknd two. 
Cl1u.vr.1:. wbosr. 2 2 H B Is in August are his most evf'r in one month. hit a 1-0 pitch from Sirotka over the right-field fenr.e to snap a 1-1 tio in the fourth. 
Singleton's sacrifice fly gave the White Sox a short-lived 1-0 lead in the second inning. In the bottom of the inning. 
Hamon l lcrnandez tied it with an H131 double. 
Both teams have struggled since the All-Star brenk. By winning two of thrnc against Oakland, the AL Central-lead­ing Whitr Sox improved to 24­22 since the break, and the Athletics. still on the heels of AL West leader Seattle, are 22­:::!4 over the same span. 
Royals 8, Twins 7 
Miko Sweeney hit a three-run double to give him 121 RBIs. ser.ond most in Hovals history, and Kansas City lJPid on to beat thr. Minnesota Twins in 100­degreo heat. 
The official temperature in downtown Kansas· City in the seventh inning was 104. The Hoyals dosfld the sun--bakfld uppor deck and lot everyone move down to lower-level seats. many in the shade. Temporarily adding to the dis­com fort was a water main break that disrupted water ser­vice at the Truman Sports Complflx about two hours before the game. 
Minnesota trailed 8-0 after three innings, but drew within one on Denny Hocking's three-
run hornnr in the ninth off Jprry Spradlin. Hicky Bottalico rnrne in and allowAd singlPs to Midre Cummings and pinch-hit­ter Jay Canizaro, before getting Uaviu Ortiz to hil into a doubln play and Torii lluntnr to ground out. Bottalico earned his 14th save. 
Devil Rays 3, Red Sox 1 
Albie Lopez allowed only !'our hits in eight innings as the Tampa Bay Devil Hay·s beat Urn Boston Hod Sox. 
Lopez (11-9) tiod tlrn Dr.vii Bays record of 21 career victo­ries held by rurrcnt Boston pitcher Rolando Arrojo. 
The right-hander, who has the AL's sec:ond-lowest ERA at 3.57, struck out six and walked three. Since moving into the rotation on May 28, Lopez is 9­5. 
Orrn day after being one-hit by Pedro Martinez, the Devil Hays had 11 hits against five Boston pitchers. Bobby Smith snapped an O-for-21 slump with an Hl3I single in the third inning. There was no repeat of Tuesday night's beanball war that caused eight Devil Hays ejections. 
Boston first basnman also onded up with a hypPrnxtPn­sion of his loft nlbow in llw fra­cas. Daub,tch was hurt when he onterul a pi!,, of' players during a f'irsl-inning brawl that rloared t.hn bnnrlrns after Martinnz hit lcatlof'I' man c;erald Williams with his fourth pitch of the gamn. 
Boston third bas1,ma11 Lou Merloni also missed Wcdnosday's game with a c.on­cuss ion hn rnccived in tlH' altercation. but hopes to return to thn linr,up Friday. llobnrto Il0rnandez got thn l'inal three outs for his 2(1th save in 32 chances. 
Tampa Bay took two or thren from the playoff' contending Hed Sox. Tampa Bay hadn't won a sr.ries against a toam over .500 sincn Junn I 3-15 against Anaheim. 
Boston starter .lcl'f' Fassero 18-81. who complained after being pulled in the sixth inning of his last outing Friday al Kansas City. did not make it through thn f'ourlh. Trailing 2­
1. Fassoro was rnplacr,d by llipolito Pichardo aftnr falling behind Williams 2-1 with two on and one out. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.111. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office,  
CLASSIFIEDS  024 South Dining H,iJL Deadline for next-day cbssifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righr to edit all classifieds for content wirhour issuing refunds.  
$30 to $45 in two to three hours  3 bdrm apt. home al 616 E. Howard  Earn 30-40% commission selling  Need 4 GA's for Stanford  
WANTED  work. The American Tailgater Company is a mail order company  St. Available immediately. Walking distance to campus, acces- Home and Garden Party. Contact Maria at  Chris 634=4751 Beeley.1@nd.edu  PERSONAL  
specializing in tailgating equipment  s1ble to public transportation.  www.homepartybusiness.com for a  
EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP- Need people to distribute flyers  $500 ea. Sec.  free catalog and more information.  Need tix -75 Grad need 2-4 GA for  I NEED YOUR HELP!  
MENT CENTER PAID & VOLUN- before all or most home Notre  Dep. of &250 ea.  
 Neb and/or Pur.  
TEER OPPORTUNITIES  Dame football games. Check us out  Call 289-9484  LOVE KIDS?  Call Tony  l'M A '92 ND GRAD AND LOT MY  
at www.AmericanTailgater.com. E­ WANT TO EARN GOOD MONEY  (714)523-3686.  YEARBOOK IN A FLOOD IF YOU  
Earn money and build resume  mail Charlie at  N.D. RENTAL  BUT ONLY WORK A FEW HOURS  KNOW ANYONE WHO HAS A '92  
experience with delightful young  Ndflyer@AmericanTailgater.com  LAKEFRONT HOME ON MAGI­ A WEEK?  Need 1 T A&M ticket  YEARBOOK AND WOULD NOT  
children. The Early Childhood  GIAN LAKE AVAILABLE WEEKLY.  Area family needs individual to care  price negotiable  MIND PARTING WITH IT, PLEASE  
Development Centers at Saint  Looking for a babysitter in our  OR FOR WKNDS. 3 BDRMS, 1 112  for two daughters 2-3 times/wk from  x1755 James  CALL ME AT  
Mary's College and the Universi!y  home. Flex hours No Sundays.  BATHS,DECK,SCREENEDIN  3-6 p.m. starting mid-Sept. Mom  830-772-5956 OR E-MAIL AT  
of Notre Dame, are currently  Please call 258-4115  PORCH THIS HOME IS NIGEL Y  attending grad school in Chicago.  Needed: 4 Nebraska tix.  esquivele@mindspring.com  
accepting applications from college  FURNISHED AND OVERLOOKS A  Girls are delightful.  Call 634-1430  Thank you,  
students lor part time employment positions. The hours vary, including  FOR SALE  BEAUTIFUL LAKE AND IS CLOSE TO INDIAN GOLF COURSE. ALSO  Transportation needed. Generous pay! If interested please call Karen  STANFORD. AIR FORCE,  Cristina Ortiz  
MWF 8:00-9:00 a.m. and MWF  IN THE AREA ARE MANY APPLE  Stonehill at 272-5013.  BOSTON,  "Get up-pa! Good luck on Saturday  
11:00 a.m. -1:30 p.m. If you are  99VW Beetle GLS, dk. blue,  ORCHARDS READY FOR PICK- Cheap.  to John Ravasio!  
interested in applying, please con- 5-spd manual trans.  ING. THIS HOME WILL SLEEP 6.  654-0168  Johnny Bambino ...Love, Brooke  
tact Kari Alford, Program Director at  6 CD changer.  $350 WEEKENDS  TICKETS  and Julia  
ECDC-SMC, at 284-4693 or Thayer  air alloy 16" wheels,  $850 WEEKLY  ND FOOTBALL TKTS  
Kramer, Program Director at  12. 800 miles, exc. cond. &16300.  630-964-6620  BUSINESS MAN NEEDS  251-1570  To Laura, the "Vixen of Vicksburg:"  
ECDC-ND at 631-3344 for more  219-258-4454  616-424-3246  Nebraska tickets or season  You and Ashley were "T-Rific" fun  
information and an application.  VICTORY TKTS  in Chicagoi E-mail me  
Women's Schwinn Bike  In-Home B&B  GA only. 277-1659  BUY.SELL'TRADE  sometime ... russ@updraft.com  
The Early Childhood Development  26" Like New  FB wknds -sleep up to 8  ND FOOTBALL  
Centers are also looking for volun- Robbye  some wltix  WANTED  232=0964  Happy 21st Anne KIii NO more  
teers who enjoy young children. If  631-6218  2miNofND  NO FOOTBALL TKTS  www.victorytickets.com  worries!  
you would be interested in spending  219-277-4759  289-92B0  Love  
2 hours a week reading children's  Beautiful brass bed. queen size,  6 NEBRASKA TIX  Nikki  
books. building with blocks, and  with orthopedic mattress set and  2 BDRM APTS. FOR 2000-01.  VICTORY TKTS  (219)232-5485  
signing songs with children. please  deluxe lrame.  ALSO LEASING FOR 2001-02.  BUY-SELL'TRADE  SKYDIVE  
contact ECDC-ND at 631-3344 or  All new, never used, still in plastic.  DAVE 291-2209  ND FOOTBALL  BUY/SELL ND TICKETS  Training Students for 35 Years  
ECDC-SMC at 284-4693  $235.  232-0964  273-3911  1 Hour North of South Bend  
ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE  www. victo rytickets .com  GREAT LAKES SKYDIVERS, INC.  
EARN EXTRA CASH  River Isle exc. condo on the river in  ADN CLOSE TO CAMPUS  TICKET MART  1-800-351-6617  
Word-processing from dictation  Mishawaka.  http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/  ALWAYS BUYING NEBRASKA  BUY/SELLffRADE  www.greatlakessydivers.com  
involving client case sludies. Must  Beautiful view of the river from liv­ ernail:mmmrentals@aol.com  271-9330  ALL GAMES  
have computer. Dictaphone provid­ ing room, dining room, kitchen, and  232-2595  271-9330  Brooke,  
ed. Call for info + interview morn- bdrm.  ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED  Since you have been complaining  
ings, M-Thur.Ask for Cindy. 287­ Also has swimming pool, pier.  Apartment for rent ND footbali  A.M. · 232-2378  ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE  about your lack of classifieds. Here  
3373  sauna, exercise room and club- weekends. 2 mi. from campus.  P. M. -288-2726  A.M. · 232-2378  is a classified. I hope you are  
house  Parking pass included Sleeps five.  P.M. -288-2726  happy. You can now continue hat- 
OHicials needed for Baseball, Slow  Call Frank  Call 243-0791 for info.  NEED: Three tickets to Texas A&M  ing me.  
and Fast Pitch Softball. and Flag  299-1909  for family. Call John, 4-2795  BUY/SELL N D FOOTBALL TICK- 
Football. This 1s a great opportunity  Jack  2BR, 2nd fir. Apt. 525/mo.  ETS. HOME & AWAY GAMES.  Now if I don't give Julia a classified  
to earn good money. Contact the •  257-1141/ 674-6593  Along St. Joe River  NEED 2 NEBRASKA TICKETS  (219)289-8048.  too, she will complain. So to antici- 
RecSports office (Peter Shoop or  Incl. Water/SecSysUTrash  WILL PAY $100 FOR EACH  pate future problems, here is a clas- 
Jeff Walker _ @631-6100, or stop  Condo · townhouse  288-2654 or 288-2788  CALL MATT AT 4-3319  Two GA tix Ga Tech, Nebraska  sified for Julia.  
by the ollice in the Rolls Sports  2 bdrms, 1 1/2 balll w/lireplace. All  219-287-1449  
Recreation Center today, You can  updated.  1 mile from ND in quiet neighbor- Looking to trade Grad student ticket  Are you Sancho?  
also e-mail us at recsport@nd.edu  Must see.  hood, 2 Bedroom very clean. $69,  book for Senior tickets to sit by  Need 1 cheap Purdue Ticket Call  No.  
$69,000. Call 219-291-8601,  500.  friends. Will pay $$.  John 4-3670  And Scott Baio is not Sancho.  
ND prol and wife seek babysi!!er in  Call 219-264=4966  Call 287-2433  Neither is Frank Gifford Sancho.  
our home T·TH 9AM-1 PM (later ,t  f mile lrom ND in quiet neighbor- SELLING TEXAS A&M. $75.00 ea.  But I .. I am Sancho.  
possible). 3 great kids, aged 7 mos  hoOd, 2 Bedroom very clean  That Pretty Place, Bed and  I need tickets to the Purdue game.  289-8048  
to 5 yrs, Expsrience/relerences  $69,500.  Breakfast Inn has space available  Will pay top $. Call Chris at 4-3094.  The DISH is back... WHOOPEE..  
required. Please call 631-3654 ore- Call  for football/pa.rent wknds 5 rooms  2 tix for ND-Texas A&M game avail­ 90210 four times a day.  
mail me1ssner 1 @nd edu  219-264-4966.  with private baths, $80-$115.  Need: 3 tix for TX A&M, 2 tix for  able nowf!I  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  Nebraska.  Call Sean at 634-1454 for more  20 days until 21 ... watch out world  
SPRINGBREAK 2001 H11ing On-Campus Reps  FOR RENT  Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418­9487  Call Colleen 4-1146  info.  2 nights in a row... do i REALLY  
SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH, GO  ATTENTIONII I am paying $175.00  GA Ticket Available for  need the money this bad?  
FREEl11  SOUTH BEND  I have 5 bedrooms for rent in my  each, for NEBRASKA tickets.  Nebraska Game  Sept. 9  
Student Travel Services  LODGING  nicely decorated private hoe for  1219)289-8048,  Lower Section, 20 Yd. Line  Kerry is the coolest boss in the  
America's #1 Student Tour  In-home B&B lodging for football  Football  Contact Jay:  world.. now if she would ever bring  
Operator  games & ND-SMC events  weekends; less than 2 miles north  WOULD LIKE TO UY 3-5 TICKETS  (201) 264-0262  me a cheeseburger.. she'd be da  
..  Jamaica, Mexico, Bahamas, Europe, Florida  Close to campus. Breakfas1 incl  of stadium, continental brkfst includ­ed.  FOR ND-NE FOOTBALL GAME. PLEASE CALL  SELLING  bomb .  
1-800-648-484 9  Call  many happy repeat customers! Call  630-904-6418.  ND FOOTBALL TKTS  Jena, dress well for dinner tonight..  
www.gospringbreak.com  219 243-2628  Kim 277-8340  THANKS  251-1570  jeans, shirt, the works,  

Thursday, August 31, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 


I 
' 
' 
I I 
I 
I 
I 
-II I I 
' 
I I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
-
page lG The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, August 31, 2000 ~-~-----~---~_ 
NL 
Clark hon1ers, doubles in Cardinals victory over Marlins 
As,ocia1eJ Press 
MIAMI 
Will Clark homered in thn 
sN·ond inning and added an 
HBI doubln in thP ninth, giving 
Uw SL Louis Cardinals a 4-2 
win ov,~r tlrn Florida Marlins. 
Jim Edmonds snapped an O­
l'or-21 slreak with a singlll in the sixth and adrll"d anollwr b1LSP hit lt~ading off Lim ninth with the game ti!'d at 2. 
Clark followed with a double lo righl-center, scoring l•:d monds from first for th!" go­it h ,~ad run. Clark moved to third on a sarrifin• and scored on Hay l.ankford's singlr off Antonio Alfonscca (4-(,). Dave Vcm~s pilrhl'd the ninth for his 24th .savn in 2() chances. Matt Morris (2-3) pitched tho eighth for llw win. 
The Marlins Look a 1-0 kad in th,~ first. Andy Fox singled, mowd to sl'cond on n walk to Cliff Flovd and scored on !'rest.on \Vilson's fielder's choice. Fox scorPd from sncond as Lim Cardinals trilld to turn an inning-ending double play. St. Louis went ahead 2-1 with back-to-back home runs to !rad off th1) sernnd. 
Clark hit his eighth of the sc\ason on a 2-0 pitch from Hf'id CorrH'lius. Craig Paqu1)lt<' follm-v11d two piLchns later with his 10th. Cornelius kept tho Cardinals quiet aftr.r the honwrs. !IP n•tirc1d I!, of the rwxt IS bnttPrs bPl'orn ge!Ung 
pulled ror a pinch hitter in the sixth inning. Cornt>lius allowed four hits in six innings en route Lo his cig-ht.h no-decision. 
Thn Marlins ti(,d the game in the sixth. Floyd lr.d off with a duubl!) and s<·on•d on Mark Smith's broken-bat single to right finld. Florida loaded the basrs with two outs, but pinrh­hittnr K<win Millar struck oul looking. 
Braves 5, Reds 2 
Tom Glavi1rn pitched a three­hitter to become th,' NI.'s first 18-game winner, Andres Galarraga hit a two-run humer and tho Atlanta Braves ended a four-game losing streak with a victory over the Cincinnati Beds. 
The Braves held a closed­door meeting after batting practice and emerged from the clubhouse hardly looking like the team that lost five of its first six ganrns on the homes­tand. The virtory kept Atlanta tied with New York !'or first in thf' NL East. Thn MP.ts del'eat­r.d llouston 1-0. 
Glavine ( 18-6) won for the 11th lime in 12 starts ­including four in a row -as he clo.scs in on the fifth 20-win season of his career. The left­hander retin1d the last 11 hit­tc rs !'or his third complete 
game of the season  and  48th  
OVf'ra]l.  
The  Braves  pounded  

Cincinn,tli starter Elmer 
Df'ssens (6-5, for 12 hits and since he was d1qilt to gle to Darryl llamilton. five runs in five innings. Cincinnati in /\pril 1999 with Agbayani advancr)d wlrnn Chipper .JonP-s had an HBI dou­his career in shambles becaus11 Edgardo Alfonzo bounced into ble in the first and Javy Lopez of control problems. lie pitched a double play and <'.anw home led off the sr.rond with his two scoreless innings and when llolt bouncPd a wild 22nd homer ol' the season. didn't walk anyotrn. pitch with Mike Piazza batting. putting the Braves ahead !'or Now York only advanrnd onr good. They put the game awuy more runn11r past s1)cond. but
Mets 1, Astros o
in the f'if'th al'ter Dessens it didn't mat.tcir bncausn Mots
mc:k Heed and two rcli<Wf'rs

retirnd thr. f'irst two hitters. pilclwrs allowed no orw past
combined on a thrnc-hitter to
B.J. SurholT reached on an second and only otrn runnnr
make an early run stand up,
infield single and took an P-xtra past first.
and the New York Mets beat
base whe·n second baseman H1ied (9-41 gave up thrnn hits
the llouston Astros to hold on 
Pokcv Heese threw the ball into in seven innings, struck out six
to their share of the NL East
the ct'ugout. and walked two. Turk Wrndnll
lead. 
Galarraga followed with his pitched a 1-2-3 nighth. and
New York, a major league•

25th homer, an opposite-field Armando Br.nitPz struck out
best 31-lG since Urn All-Star
drive to the right-field bleach­thr. side in the ninth for his
game, remained tird with 
ers. Cincinnati scored on Juan 36th savn in 40 drnncns.
Atlanta at 79-54, Thn Braves
Castro's BBi single in the sec­Tim Astros lost a 1-0 ganw
beat the Cincinnati Hnds 5-2.
ond and Dante BichctLP-'s sacri­l'or the lin,t tinrn sincr. Aug. 23,
Chris Holt 16-131 didn't allow
fice l1y in the sixth. 1996, to St. Louis, Nnw York,
mur.h. But his •,,vildncss led to a
Otherwise, the Reds hardly tied with Atlanta sincn Monday
first-inning run. and it was too
touched Glavine, who retired night, improved to 2(,-1 !, in
much for the Astros lo ovrr­
the side in order five times. onP-run games, while Ilouston
come as he dropped to 0-:{ in
Tho Braves outhit Cincinnati dropped to 10-27, lhn worst in
four r,arcer appP-aranccs
14-3. Former Atlanta closer baseball. Thr. Mr.ts also play(id
against the Mets. 
Mark Wohlnrs madf' his first their fifth 1-0 ganrn of' tlw spa­
Holt walked Benny Agbayani 

appearance at Turner f.ield son. winning for tlrn third Unw.
in the first and gave up a sin-
Writing the Fulbright Essay:Writer's Worl{shop 
Sponsored By: 

The Notre Dame Writing Center 
This writer's workshop is for people who wish to sharpen their Fulhright application essays. Bring a copy of your essay to the workshop and discuss it with other writers and with readers from the Notre Dame Writing Center. You can hring in the polished draft, a rough heginning, or jt~st an outline of what you want to say. 
The workshop is meant to help you at all stages of the writing process, whether you me getting started, defining concepts, developing your narrative, organizing your ideas, or making final edits. The workshop is designed to improve your work-in-progress by giving you the opportunity to share it with 
readers and other writers. 
To Register: Registration is limited. To register, send an e-mail to 
Professor John Duffy, Writing Center Director, at John.M.Duffy.27@nd.edu. 
Where: 232 DeBartolo 
When: Thursday, August 31, 6:30-8:30 p.m. 
~WOMEN'S
voJNALL c'5hamroc..k!ln,t,i;z'{l{)J]al 
• . ,,/ ~/\·~•.;¼4tJ _,; J 
\!J SOCCER 
Fr1. NOTRE DAME vs. Fair , ,'·,,~~•lOO pm 
Come to the match and get earlyseats fort trcilly! 
~ * You could WIN a * One dorm will win a PIZZA $ ~ X~Jl(Df$\«{TIOH! $ PARTY from Papa John's! 
.l'i'_,.-",1 "" ' ,.
Sat./f~!J~E'P*ME vs. #15BYU 7:00 pm 
! /ff _.v :::-f;.'.T ~ i 
-Sun ·. ·OT:R" E vs. Clemson 2:00 pm 
!'., ,rc,hbox 6tyconcert tickets! "',..,, J 


page 17 


Then ioin us Q\7-gr_g Thursday. 
You never know what will develop when 1200 members of the class of 2001 
•
mix 1t• up. 

-I 
I 
r 
r 
I 
I I 
_______________________ J 
pag~ 18 The Obseruer . SPORTS Thursday, AuguM 31, 2000 

NFL 
Favre credits time off for healing injured elbow 
loni.; pasS('S during a morning Tlw t1 arkPrs listPd Favrt' as ;\fl(•r !'our v\'t'PKS with tt•mlini• :{4-:U prPsPason virlory ovt•r walkthrough. probabl«' for Sunday's ,r:anw. tis. Favri• has bPron1t• such an thl' CIPV<'land llrowns last 
<dli:t•:N llc\Y. Wis. 
1:or 111<1Yb" Llw first tinw in 
his 1·arPP1:. Brt•ll Favri• is slJiJW· 
ing a littlP palif'llrt' -and il 
miglil s11vc• his st•ason. 
\flpr rwarl, a month (lilt or al'lilln bPr,u1sP ol" tPndinitis in his right Plbo\\. l··anP said \\lt>d1wsrlav that Lhf' !'XIPnclc·d rc\sl has in;prnwd his rondition t·onsidt>rahl\'. Ill' misst•d t.lw c;rpc•n Bav Pit('k!'l's' linal thrPP prPst>as1;11 ganws and 0111~· rl'funwd to pnwtirP last W<'!'k. 
ht\T!' thr1•,1 Sl'Vt•ral dot.<'n passl's during pra<'lic·1• \\'Pcl1wsda\ and !'1•11 no signil1­ran t pain. ·1 IP «'XpPrts to play in ti](' l'arkc•rs· r1•gular-sPason op1•1wr Sunday against llw N1·w \'ork .IPts. though .t linnl d1•ci• sion hasn·t bl'Pn mad«' VPt. 
'"TIH'r<' was 110 \\'av· I \l't1Uld 
hav,, plnyc•cl this 1;·..l'k ii' I 
hadn't rnslt·d." Fnvr1• said. "!l 
was gc•lling LO tlw point wht•r<' I 
rnuldn't <'1'1'17 grip a football." 
:\llU 1'\'!'ll ii llltllllii of f"l'Sl might not lw Pnough. \Vlwn ,tskPd. tlw thn•P-tinw ~1VI' still didn't Pliminatl' th!' slim pnssi­
bilit~ lw mighl sit out Sunday. 
ht\Tt' has startPd 12:i 1·onsPr· 
utin• galll!'S. a IPaguP rPrord 
fur his p11sili1in. 
"II' I'm going 111 play S1111cla~·. 1·111 g,iing 111 cul it loosP." said 1•·a1TP. who "nr1• a larg1• in· \\'rap Dll his. Con•arm allcl Plb11\\. 
1:a,•rp clParl\ has lt•arnPd from his t''\JH'ril'lln's in th1• last l\\'D Vt'ars. l.ast sPason. h" bull1•cl alwacl through a painf'ul thumb in,iur:, that dPar!y alT1•1·t­r•cl his !t•drniqw· and df'cision· making. 
IIP thn•" ;n i11tPrr1•ptio11!-o as tin• l'ark1•rs stumblc•d to an 8-8 n•r11rd. but tlw l'\JWriPrn·p 11'1'1 him 11isPr about his body's n1•Pds. Thi,, 1c•ar. lw and (;n'l'il Ila v's 1·oa<'hPs ar<· Irving to rrni'dil\ tlw gambling. ;ilT-llw· ntlT playing slyl1• Lhat mack him a star b:, adding a littlr> rnorl' <·omnHm sP11s1· -both on llw fir•ld and in tlw training 
1'1Hllll 
'"HrPU kr111\\s 11hal w1• wanl him lo dn. and tw·s givr•n us what \\'I' lll'l'd." coach \lik1• ~lwrman said. "'I also r<'aliz<' that Hn•ll has a history of' mak· ing SOllH'thing Clll[ or rrnthing. Tlrnt's whr•n• \\'t' havr' to l'ind lht> balall<'f' " 
/\ rt n ta ki11 g l tll' scl ay o fl. Fa1T<' tlm·w about SO passPs on WPdrwsday. inrluding Sl'VPral 

I Men's Tennis Tryouts ! M\ md~,y Sept. 14th 4:00PM Ou1 drnir Tenn is Courts 
In evL·nt 11t r:1in, report ro 
Eck Tennis l~avillion Quest i1 ins, ct!! 1-6929 
$$ I need to buy Nebraska vs. Notre Dame fooboll tickets. SS 
Home Phone: 
(562)598-3949 
2Ll Hr Voice Mail: 
(213) 487-416 l 
"I just saw him throw tlw ball down tht'I'(' just about as w!'II as lw nm throw il." Slwrma11 said. "You kno\\ hov, sonw• tinws vou Sl't' that snrnkt• tlrnt r o 111 c' ~ o IT t111' ba 11 w lw n lw throws'! I lrnvt'n·t S('t'n Llrnt _v1•t. hut IH•s thl'<ming hard."' 
Favn• said lw !'Pit ·no signifi­('anl µuin iii his Plbow. <>Vt'll ,\hc•n lw nrnd<' a lrirkv 1-ross­body thrm\ -tlw 01w ·µass lw said IH' was "al'rnid" ol' thrnw­ing. 
"I was a litllP lwsitanL on sonw throws. just a liUIP cau­tious," lw said. "hvny throw I lwd. H was thought out bnforp throwing. as opposPd Lo just il't• ting it go." 
Faber Consulting is seeking the brightest 
minds 
...to help transform our clients' data assets into 
valuable Business Intelligence. 
Business Intelligence will separate the winners from the losers in the coming decade.That's why Faber is looking for self-motivated, intelligent people with acomputer studies background to contrib~te to our explosive growth and become our next generation of consultants. 
We offer achallenging work environment with exceptional opportunities for training and career advancement. And every "Faberite" receives an equity stake in our business. 
Use Go IRISH to sign up immediately for an interview•· the schedule fills quickly. We're interviewing Monday, October 2nd at the Career Center. Or attend our information session on Sunday, October 1st from 7·8 p.m. in Foster, Room 306 at the Lafortune Student Center. Refreshments will be served. 
We are an Equal Opportunity Employer 
No surcharge ATMs on campus...pass it on. 

[!£~'!€} Indcpcndcnr of the University 
Both publicly and privatPly. (;n•Pn Bay·s coarlws <'Xpcrt him to play. 
"If' lw drll'sn't Islar! S1rndavl. it will lw a shork lo nw ancl a disappointnwnf." Slwrman said. "I k's planning on playing. I'm planning on him plavi11g. I don'L S<'P a rPason wlw lw won't." 
Favn• will t1<1 his arm morP s1 r<'ntlously du ring Th ursd11y's longPr prar.tkc. but lw doc'sn't antil'.ipal(! any lll'W probl1\11JS bPyond thn vagul' sorPnPss that ocrurs in most quartPrb,u:ks' arms. 
Favre' has m,rnai,;Pd to k<'<'P busy dt11'ing his pnriod of inal"­tivity. and not just by Paling morr\ iLnd gaining a l'nw pounds. 
l'XpPrt on tlw subj!'<'t that lw's Saturday. 1:avr1' spok<' with alrl'ady dispr'nsing 111f'di('al llrtl\\ 11s qual'i.1•rba('k Tim advicl'. Coud1. who was \l'<'aring a pro• 
/\fl<•r sitting out thP l':u·k<•rs' !.<•<·liYP sf<'f'\'t' on his arm. 
B RUN O'S 


All-You-Can-Eat Dinner Buffet 
For Students 
i,; 

a.tory Open HousJ~,· 1st Year Boxers: 
t Day Today 4-5'.\ 
:,:t 

Boxing Room (acros,§...J: football office) .,:_.,.,~., 
. • ,._r.(.· ~-' .,.-t.' t~)· 


19033 Doll!!,las Road Notre Dame, IN 4(,'>56 R00/522-66 ! ! www.11dfr11.org 

_J 
Thursday, August 31, 2000 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
Calendar of Events 
We Are N.D. 
Aqgust 28-September 18 l 03 Hesburgh Library By Fr. John Herman, CSC 
Freshmen Retreat #30 Sign-up 
In Augt1st of 1988, I ventured to Notre Dame for the first time to begin discerning a
Targeted Dorms: Badin, Keenan, Lewis, O'Neill, ~,. Pasquerilla East, St. Edward's, Morrissey, Walsh, and Zahm possible vocation to the priesthood in the Congregation of Holy Cross in the Candidate 
Program at Moreau Seminary (the big, curved building on the other side of St. Joseph's Lake). Monday-Friday, August 28-September 1 Shortly a&er my arrival, my dad told me about a conversation that he had with our next door 103 Hesburgh Library 
neighbor, Mr. Milton. Surprisingly, despite being a huge Michigan football fan and seemingly
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #62 Sign-Up 
indifferent to Catholicism, Mr. Milton was incredibly positive about my coming to Notre Dame. He spoke glowingly to my dad about his one experience of Notre Dame. ­
Thursday, August 31, 7:00 p.m. Mr. Milton regularly followed the University of Michigan football team co their road 
Reeker's Africentric Spirituality Freshmen Intro games i.n the Midwest, many ac other Big Ten schools and one special one at Notre Dame. He Reception spoke of his surprise at being treated so well by Notre Dame students and fans, despite boldly dressing in all of his Michigan gear for the game. He was amazed that the students were so Sunday, September 3. 1:00 p.m. 
friendly and even helpful to "the enemy" and conducted themselves with st1ch class. Mr. 
Keenan-Stanford Chapel Milton saw a dear difference i.n the kind of reception that he received at Notre Dame com­
RCIA: Info Sessions for Candidates and 
pared with the other schools he had visited, and he cot1ld not have been any more impressed.
Sponsors 
More than a decade of Notre Dame football has passed since then. On Saturday, the Sunday, September 3, 1:30 p.m; 2000 football season begins, and the long, storied tradition of Notre Dame football continues. Keenan-Stanford Chapel Throughout the history of Notre Dame football, we have certainly had many more successes 
Spanish Mass 
than failures and wins than losses, but we too have had our tough times like other schools. One of the best and most enduring things abouc Notre Dame football, however, win or lose,Monday. September 4. 8:30 pm 
has been the Notre Dame student body. There exists a strong tradition of Notre Dame
Basilica of the Sacred Heart students supporting their team to the end with dedication, energy, and as my neighbor, Mr. 
Acolyte Workshop 
Milton, told my dad, "class." Class? Is it class that made the Notre Dame students stand out Monday, September 4, 10:00 pm for my neighbor or was there something more to it than that? Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
One of the unique and very telling things about Notre Dame football Saturdays is the 
Eucharistic Minister Workshop 
announcement made during every game that there will be Mass in the Basilica thirty minutes a&er the game ends. At a football game? Where else would a similar announcement be made Tuesday, September 5, 7:00 pm 
or heard? These announcements are a reminder, even in the midst of intense, hard-fought 
Siegfried Hall Chapel Confirmation-Info Session for Candidates football games, that there is something more than football that makes Notre Dame and its 
students special. We who are a part of the Notre Dame family know that this post-game Mass 
Tuesday. September 5, 8:00 pm is only the tip of the iceberg. Siegfried Hall Chapel 
Any outsider looking more deeply would quickly learn there are dozens of Masses each 
Confirmation-Info Session for Sponsors 
Sunday, most in each of the residence halls -and they are weH-attended by students. An outsider would also learn of the impressive number ofstudents who seek to grow in their faith 
Tuesday, September 5. 8:00 pm by participating in retreats, faith-sharing communities and the many other programs put on
Lafortune Ballroom "Fiesta de Bienvenida" by Campus Ministry and who act on their faith by engaging in service opportunities coordi­nated by the Center for Social Concerns, both in South Bend and throughout the country and Wednesday, September 6, I 0:00 pm· 
world during fall and spring breaks and summers. Is it possible that it wasn't class that made Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart 
Notre Dame students seem special to Mr. Milton but maybe the faith in God underlying the 
Lector Workshop 
way that they conducted themselves? · Football weekends could provide an excuse for completely cutting loose, suspending our
Wednesday. September 6, 10:00 pm Basilica of the Sacred Heart values and conducting ourselves in ways contrary to what our faith and the Gospel call us. Interfaith Christian Night Prayer The majority of students show us that it is possible to have a great time on football Saturdays without forgetting who they are and without separating football from the other parts of their
Twenty-second Sunday 
· lives which they allow their faith to inform and influence. It's clear that there will always be 
in Ordinary Time 
people around looking for reasons to dislike or even hate Notre Dame. Unfortunately there Weekend Presiders are some students who seem to go out of their way to validate the negative perceptions that Basilica of the Sacred Heart these folks have ofNotre Dame by drinking excessively, by yelling offensive things, by wearing 
Saturday, September 2 Mass 
inappropriate or derogatory t-shirts and by mistreating our opponents and even our own team 
30 minutes after game 
at times. That's not what it means to be N.D. and formnately not what most students com­
Rev. John A. Herman, c.s.c. 
municate. Each home game here on our campus this season will attract thousands ofvisitors from Swtday, September 3 Mass 
8:00 a.m. around the country and the world. Many will be alums coming back co the campus that will Rev. Nicholas R. Ayo, c.s.c. always hold a special place in their heans. Many will be subway alumni who are connected to 
10:00a.m. 
Notre Dame simply through their deep love ofour team. Many will be other Mr. Miltons, Most Rev. Joseph A. Fiorenza 
whether from Texas A&M, Nebraska or the other visiting universities, people who have never Bishop Galveston/Houston, TX been here before and may never come again. At each game, the eyes of the world will be upon
11:45 a.m. 
us, v.ratching, taking in everything and going forth to tell others what they have found at
Rev. Peter D. Rocca, c.s.c. Notre Dame. This is the same dynamic that has been in place since the days of Rockne and Stepan Center that has helped to make Notre Dame known for the special university that it is. Each football Saturday, September 2 Mass game provides us with an opportunity to live our faith by treating our visitors with hospitality, 
45 minutes after game 
respect and dignity and with the opportunity to spread the message ofwho we are at Notre Rev. Richard V. Warner, c.s.c. 
Dame. Joe DiMaggio, the late, Hall of Fame outfielder ofche New York Yankees, once told reporters why he played so hard each and every game. He said, "There is always some kid who 
Scripture Readings 
may be seeing me for the first or last time. I owe him my best." Other Mr. Miltons will be 
for this Coming Sunday 
1st Reading Dt 4: 1-2, 6-8 here with us for the first or last rime. We owe it to them to give our best, to uphold the 2nd Reading Jas 1: 17-18, 216-22, 27 illustriot1s traditions of the Notre Dame student body and, yes, to let the light ofJesus Christ Gospel Mk 7: 1-8, 14-15, 21-23 
shine through us -even on a football Saturday. 
. -. 
-
... 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, August 31, 2000 
Runners 
continued from page 24 
be lop recruit Todd l\1obky, who placf'd 18 at the Foot Lo('knr national <·ross rountry ITIPPt, and l'rf'shman Brian KNwin. who won the Nt>•N .!Prscy slatn rrnss country rhampionship. In addition to l\1oblf'y and K1'rwin. Pian<' hopPS f'rrshnwn David Alb,~r and K«'vin Somak will makP l'arlv impal'ls l'or tlw Irish. · -
Tlw wonwn lost four of llwir top SPVPn s1'11iors !11 graduation in All-/\nwriran trark runner 
Alison h:IPmnwr and tPammatPs l'attv ltic<', Niro!P LaSnll1\ and l•:rin. l.ubv. Tlwv also losL tlwir No. I ninrwr.· :\11-,\nwrkan .loArrna DP/'lPr. midway through last SP,ison to an injury. In 1')'J<J, tlw Irish squnakc'd into tlw NCAA Championships with an aL-largi• bid, but thn youthful squad will bP hard-pn·ssod to rt'pPai tlw fpat. 
In ordnr lo lrnv<1 a shot al a rriturn to nationals, lwad (:oach Tim Cnnn('llv will llf'l'd lnacJPr­sh ip and i1{1provPmf'nt. from snniors sur.h as Erin Olson. Chrissy KtH'nster and Bridg<'l O'Bri«'n. All arP runners who have shm'\n potential during 
pn\vious irnasons. bul nonn havP attained tlw 1£wPI of success Conrwlly bl'liPves they am capa­blP of. 
"If W(' ran g('t some of' our older kids lo l'u Ifill tlrnir polPn­tial. we could be pretty good." Connelly said. "We're pretty solid right now. I think until we ar.tually line up and rar.e. I'm still not sure what I'm seeing. though." 
Juniors llilarv Burn and Ann McGrath have" turned on the heal. Burn is bar.k to r.ompeti­tion aftf'r suffering from mononucleosis in 1999, while McGrath blazed a trail of improvement this summer. 
"She [McGrath] is probably the most improved kid we have 
on  thP  tram  right  now,"  
Connelly said. "She had  a great  
summer of training."  

Sophomore Jen Handley stands out as Notre Dame's top returnee, and classmates Kari Eaton and Muff'v Schmidt should also competn for spots in the starting seven. 
".lennifor I landl<\y is probably our top rnturning runnnr," Connelly said. "She's a kid with just tons of pot!'ntial. She's very 
lit... /\t least thrn(' frf'shmen haw imprnssed C:onnnlly in early sna­so n workouts Megan .Johnson. BPth Androsky and Hadwl Endress. Johnson was a trnrk slate champion in Washington in high school. 
whil<• Androsky placPd third in !'Jpw .IPrspv's cross country championsi1ips and Endrns~ took sixth in Illinois in <Toss countrv. 
The ·Irish open tlwir season with the Valparaiso Invitational St'pt. S. 
Please recycle The Observer 
eColle~eFoolDall.com 
The Marketplace
• 
JOHN DAILY /The Observer Junior Luke Watson races at last year's NCAA Championships. Watson returns as a solid number two runner behind senior captain Ryan Shay. 
NEED A DATE????? 
Want to earn some money??? Shop Online??? try themichianacollegeconnection. terrashare. com 
ATTENTION COLLEGE PARK VISITORS: 

NO PARKING WITHOUT A PERMIT EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY . 
NFL 

Flutie: groin muscle feels 90 percent 
"It's dPl'initely not 100 per­
Associated Press 
cent. If you want to put a 1wr­C!'lltagc on it. it's somcwlwr<'OHCIIAHD PAHK. N.Y. 
around 1JO," hP said. "l'ul it
Quarterback Doug Fluti<i, 

this way, I've playnd a lol of
who prarticod in pads on 

games a lot rnorP hurt than lWednesday for the first limn 
am right now."
in almosl a month. says his 

Fluti<' addnd that lw has notorn groin muscln foels "<,O 
lrou blP nrnv­
percent" 
ing lall•rall,v. 
hPalthy. 
"It fp l t grnal. ll l'idl

Despitn "It felt great. It felt 
Fluti(''s comfortafJle. stepping 
cornfortabl<'.
fastrr-than­

and throwing without sl.<'pping and
ti x µ 1! ct e d 
r<\coverv. hesitation. " throwing without h<'si­
be won''t 
t at ion."
play Sunday 

Doug Flutie 
Flutit' said.
in th,1 

Bills quarterback The :{?.
Buf'falo 
ynar-old
Bills' soa­
quarlf'rbackson opener addnd that hasn't fnlt any

against th,• Tenrrnssnn Titans. 
pain whiln running tlw riast
"lie won't be rc1ady for this 10 days. 

game, but he's coming along "It's all in thnir hands.... I
fast," coach Wadi' Phillips 
think tlw thinking right nowsaid. 
is to be sari~ ... Flutin said of'Flutie is itching to go and is tlrn decision to knnµ him on
just waiting for the go-ahnad 
thn sidnlinns. "You havn lo
from tlrn team's trainers and talk lo thn coaclws and train­coaches. 
ers as to whnn tlwy think saf'n 
"I feel good enough that l 

is."
can r.ontribute," said Flutic, Flutie, Pnti:ring his .third
who threw with the quarter­
season with thP Bills. was
backs and took part in 7-on-7 
injured when lw slippPd on
drills with the scout team. As 
the St. John Fisher CollngP
a precautionary measure. he turf on Aug. 3. Initially. hn
did not partir.ipate in any 
was expect1\d to bn out untilteam drills. 
mid-to-late Sept11mber. 
Featuring: Coach Bob Davie, Head Basketball Coach :tviike Brey, Former Irish Captain Ryan Leahy, Athletic Director Kevin \Vhite. 
Thursday August 31: South Quad Dillon Bands@ 5:30 Pep Rally@ 7:00 
Thursday, August 31, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 
ilv al llw r.nd ol' that r1xprri­ei1rP has rPachrd a highc,r undPrstand ing." 
The Legacy 
BPrtic.nlli's inl'luenc:e rPaclw d far past th P ~ anrns and practi<'1•s. l!P was a f'atlwr figurp to his players, sPcming­ly aft'Hting rvery pPrson he PncountrrPd in a riositivr way. 
In tlH· spason-111Hling loss to Hutg1Ts last season, Pridmore sufTPrrd a brokrn nosr. Thr injury rnquirPd surgery. af'tcr ·which Pridmon~ was confined 
f.o a room in thP infirmary. 
"Ile camr. and sat there and talked with me for an hour. just s!1eing how I was doing, making sure everything was alright," said Pridmorn of' his late r.oarh. "He told me if I nerdt~d anything just to call him at home. He sat there with me while I was alone in a lot of pain. He picked up my spirits and took my mind off" of tlrn pain I was in. It really lrnlped me a great deal." 
13!-rticrlli had a unique abili­ty to brighten a person ·s day with the simplest of g<'stures. "Ile was very good to mr." said Detter. "I came to one of th!1 f'ootball games and I was freezing. he let me wear his jackPL." 
The man they affoctionately called "Coach B" also was The similarities between the known for a wonderful sense two coaches have not gone of humor. "He was reallv a unnoticed by the players. peopl!1 person." said current "Coach Apple was basically co-captain Steve apprnntic­Maio, "He could 

ing under make anybody "I lost a best friend, a C o a c h laugh. Things Bertice!li.
mentor and somebody
1wver seemed as A lot of 
bad when he I worked with each day 
things are 

was around. Ile for four years." very simi­would always lar," said have something 
M a i o .

Chris Apple
funny to say." 
"Coach P e r h a p s Men's soccer coach Apple has 
lkrticolli's most prof'ound impact, however. was the standard he sot within his soccer program. "The most crucial parts of the program: the integrity, the discipline, the honesty, the work ethic are things coach fBerticolli] instilled in this program and are so deeply ingrained in this program," said Apple. "We can take what he started and r.ontinue it and make it better. Hopefully, we'll be able to achieve higher h1dghts than he was able to. But when we do, he's a huge part of it. He laid the groundwork." 
Apple falls close to the tree 
Tlw decision to name Apple head coach was an easy one. Rather than being confined to a specialized set of tasks, Berticelli involved his assis­tant in all aspects of the pro­gram during their four years together. 
"One of the greatest things Coach did for me was to give me the responsibilities that I would have as a head coach.'' said Apple, "J was involved in everything from recruiting to training the team to making disciplinary decisions. He was the best mentor I could have asked for because he gave me all the experiences before I was a head coach but was ~lwals there as kind of a life­line. 
Come and find out what its all about!! 
Join us for dinner and a discussion on 
Wednesday, September 6 at the CSC atSpm 
Everyone is welcome!! Please RSVP at 631-6841 by Monday, Sept. 4 Sponsored by Multicultural Student Programs and Services 
taken so 
much of 

what 'Coach B' taught him. 
Coach Berticelli would be very 
proud of Coach Apple for 
what he's accomplishing 
already." 
While the legendary coach is 
gone, the Berticclli name is 
still very much present within 
the men's soccer program. 
Last spring Nino Berticelli, 
Mike's son. was named goal­
keepers coach after serving in 
a volunteer role during spring 
practices. Coach Apple is 
quite enthusiastic when 
speaking of his new assistant. 
"Probably tho best decision I've made so far was to hire Nino Bcrticelli," said Apple, "He did an unbelievable job last spring with the goalkeep­ers. He's continued to work diligently and intelligently. He's going to be one of the next great coaches in the country. 
'Tm just really happy to be able to work with him. and in a small way to be a mentor to him the way his dad was a mentor to me and to continue the Berticelli legacy at the University of Notre Dame." 
The young Berticelli is equally excited about his involvement in the lrish pro­gram, "To be hPre at Notre Dame now, there's no place I'd rather be." said Nino Bcrticelli. "First nf all because this is my father's team. 
~t~~ 
Second, Chris was here with my dad. I don-·t feel there's anybody better to be with than Chris Apple right now. 
Paying tribute 
The soccer program is hon­
oring Berticel!i's memory in a 
variety of ways. Both the 
home and away uniforms 
have the words "Coach B" 
imprinted on the sleeves, hon­
oring the fallen leader in an 
informal way that n~presents 
the close relationship he had 
with the players. 
Before the team's home 
opener next Wednesday 
against Bradley, there will be 
a small tribute and a moment 
of silence. The event that will 
truly keep Berticelli's memory 
alive, however, is the Mike 
Berticelli Memorial Soccer 
Tournament, which will begin 
during the 2000-2001 season. 
"We're bringing in a four­
year commitment from some 
of the best soccer sc·hools in 
thP nation to come in and play 
in Mike's honor." said Apple. 
As the young team -the majority of' the players are freshmen and sophomores ­takes the field this fall, they bring with them an extra advantage. The strength and closeness forged in facing adversity together only rein­forces the team concept. The traditions passed down from a veteran coach to his under­study. and from a father to a son will be influential throughout this campaign. 
The Irish truly feel that Berticelli's legend is with them each and every time they take the field. "The guys and I know that every time a ball bounces our way or something close comes out in the Irish's favor. we've got a little extra help," said Apple, "Coach is watching; he's mak­ing sure things are going well for us. I know he's got his eye on the program, no doubt about it." 

1 J ; r •· 111ewee• H. 
~aHAJR MODELS NEEDED
e) 
For Monday'sTraining Program by Licensed Professionals Call for information 
289-5080 

One mile from Campus 
-
... 

.-------------.--· -----­
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, August 31, 2000 

Football 
continued from page 24 
11 a I' I<' of' ,. oIIP gP foot ba II NolrP llam11 -you f<'PI lh<' prt1ssurn to win." 
Sparks havP bPPll flying in past sPasons as tlw oncP lus­trous goldf'n clonw has bPt>n larnis!H'd by S<'VPra! consPcu­tiV(' rusty rampaig11s. 
Tl11• captains must now jump hPadlr,ng into th,. llanws and l"acP nol onlv tlwir nitics but q uc• sti on s / o 11 c I' r n in g th I' ir mar h's job stability as w1-ll. 
"I think tlwrp's morP prPs­s II r!' . d1· l'i n it" I\'." I)!' n 111 an said. "Any linw ·you losP likl' WP have, that's un,HTPptabl1•. ll is our n•sponsibilily to turn this around." 
llatlwr than run f'rom thos<' PXPl'("tations and qu1•stions. tlw 2000 captains plan to tad;!,• h,•ad on thf' skeptics t ha I w i11 b<' w il h th 1• m throughout th(• Jail. 
"\Vp WP!conw tlw pressurP," lrnns said. "It motivatPs us, and it makPs P-Vl'ry gam1, morp ('Xl'iting. Tlwn•'s a lot or 1wgnlivity. a l11l 111' d11ubtPrs, but w1' can't fol'us on thPm. WI' know WP 0 rP lwtlPr than thl'y think \\"(' ar1•. WP lwliPv1•." 
!laving four (·aptains is rarP, as most tinrns Lh<' honor is lwstm,Pd upon tlw t1•,un's sin­gul,tr outstanding !PadPr, buL Irons and l>Pnman think tlw id<'a has nu·ril and frpJ that Pa1·h has sonwthin).{ to con­t.ribull'. 
"\Vl''rp f'nur dil'f'pn•nl pPr• -.nnali!iPs 1tnd I think w1: /"ii this t1•am <111d mix Wl'II togl'lh­1'1'," Irons said. "I lik(' to lead by Pxampl1• and through rny Pmotions !)an ()'1,pnry is kind of like that too. Anthony and .labari, they'rn a litllP quiPter and Lhey lead by example." 
"I think we just have so many good leaders on this tPam," l)pnman said. 
"Coach DaviP thought it would b1~ bPneficial for all of us to gel a chance." 
l•:ach of the captains is wPII ,nva rn that th<' only wi. y to rPstorP thP program to n'S!H'<·tability is to C'omrnand l'l'SJH'Cl on LhP gridiron. but Parh is also rl'rtain that a 
winning attitude begins in the among the nation's mosl diffi­locker room. Irons is confident cult. tlrn presence of' thPse not only in this year's team captains will be more impor­but also in the captains' abili­
ty to get the most out of it. 
"Without a doubt it's the best team I've been a part of. .. said the star defensive line­man. "We're fortunate to have this group of guys. and we know we have to set a good l'X am ph\ for them. /\ ttit ude rt•ally is PVrrything." 
raring high PxpPctations and a schPduln thal ranks 
Notre Dame Tickets 
tant than nver. 
It's quite possiblr1 that Lim fate of Notre Dame's SPason co uId hi n g e on th<' sq uad 's ability to rally during a tinH• of' advPrsity. lw il a fourth quar­ter d1,f'irit or a tough loss. 
In lhosn instan,·ns it's up lo till' squad's sPnior IPac!Prs to lnad tl11• chargP. 
"This tP,1111 ran handll' tlw a<lvPrsitv." Irons said. "I know mysPlf' .~ncl tlw otlwr captains will stay positiv<' and l know tlir youngn guys will follow our IPad. Wn'rp nol planning on giving up <'\'<'r.·· 
Davi('S big brotlinr program has provPd instrunwntal in cl(~ v1· Io ping positiv", n,, vI' r quit. attitudes in tlin tp;un's youngpr play11rs. 
Tlw program pairs an (1XJW· riPnrl'd VPlPran with a lll'W n·rruit and has alr·(•ady Sl'rV('d as lhP basis !"or S('VPral bur­gPoning fril'ndships. 
"It's a grPat thing." said Irons. "It giv1's us tlw l'han1•p Lo hdp lhl' youngl'I' guys 1•asl' in to l'o!lngP lifr. and it's a good way to Sl't an l'XamplP and show th<•m what a posi­tivP attitudP is." 
/\f't<•r wandnring in rol!Pg(' l'ootball's barrl'n dnsPrl f'or thP bPt!Pr part of a dPl'adP. this y,·ar·s captains corps is dnterminl'd to lead th,~ pro­gram back to thn promisPd I a n d . 11 o w P vP r , P v,, n if t lw Irish do ambush thn /\ggins. thny'll still havP to part tlw "rnd sea" lo n•ach tlw land o/' col!Pg!' l"ootball's rditn. 
TH A I RESTAURANT 
"The first Thai restaurant in town. We
Buy /Sell/Trade 
invite you to try world rlass cuisine, Thai cuisine, the deiicate art
Nebraska Wanted 
that descends from primogenitor. Thai cuisine is designed to excite your five
Preferred Tickets 
senses; sweet, sour, salty spicy, andIni'!tural."
234-5650 
L_ Now Hiring, Good Pay 
Hours 
Lunch 
Mon-Fri 11am -2pm 
Dinner 
Mon-Thu, Sun 
Spm-9pni 
Fri-Sat 
Spm-9:30pm 
211 
0 L
-+---~A S A 
L 
L 
E 



SS I need to buy Nebraska vs. Notre Dame fooball tickets.$$ 
Home Phone: 
(562)598-3949 
24 Hr Voice Mail: 
(213) 487-4161 
A message fmm PILLARS

1 drink = 1/2 oz. pure alcohol with Alcohol & Drug Education 
-311 La Fortune Student Center

which is approximately 
Univ•niity of Notro Dame 
(219) 631-7970 

10 oz. of beer = 4 oz. wine = 1 oz. 80 proof liquor 
http1//www.nd.t•du/-alJruy/ 

Thursday, August 31, 2000 The Observrr . TODAY page 23 
TYLER

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 

Fox TROT  
WHAT'S All THIS? I  I'M MAKINGt FLASH CA!i!DS To (;ET READY FoR SCHOOL NEXT WEEK. I  I'M IMPRESSED, PA16E. IT'S NICE To SEE YOU TAKING 'i'oUR Fl<ESHMAN YEAR SE.RIOUSLY. '  HERE. GUIZ ME  
f'  ~  
tr'  

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 Place for 1 Old Jewish 
portraits scholars 36 8 pts. 6 Accelerator 37 Sign to read suffix 38 Chopping 10 like some 
firewood, e.g. museumgoers 40 breve 14 Low place 
41 Like Bruckner's Symphony No. 715 Kosovo 42 Increase sharply 
combatant 43 Super Bowl sight 
16 Knock around 44 Identical, in a · 17 Travels with 
way
Sinbad, in a way 48 Bore20 Certain colonist 49 Duchamp's21 Shadow mustachioed 
22 It may precede Mona Lisa, e.g.
"mafiana" 
53 Inverted "e" 23 Knead-y one? 
56 Statistics 25 Become calculation disenchanted 
57 Glaswegian's 
27 The Beatles and refusal the Dave Clark 58 Gold, Five, in a way 
frankincense and 32 Like a slug myrrh, in a way 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
....,....-:-T":=-r::,.., 
p 0 
J A 8 S 
A K 
O R E O 
s s U C L A. 
62 Pull down 63 Fighting 64 the hole 65 St. Paul's 
architect 66 Tree growth 67 Yes or no 
follower 
DOWN 
1 Black tea source 2 Satari boss 3 Prepares to cast 4 Word before and after "in" 5 Sonnet parts 
6 Vacation memento, maybe 
7 Tape recorder 
part aTolkien beast 9 "ER" network 
10 Winner of two 
Triple Crowns 11 Mythical fliers 12 Mediator's skill 13 Disco standard 
18 Lacking play 19 Boorish sort 24 Leave slack-
jawed 25 Old phone's lack 
--+-+--+--1 26 Look like a wolf  
28 Cause of side  
--+-+--+--1  discomfort?  
29 Wrinkly fruit  
30 Pilot's place?  
31 Prelude to a  
duel  
AME  32 Be het up  
I O U S  L E A. P  A E S O P  33 Hawks' former  
Q T I P  E N D S  R A S P S  home  

"HI, <:,ooo LOOKING! WHAT'S YOUR NAME?" 
I 
PAIGE. 
TEE HEE. 
BILL AMEND 
WHY WAS I EXPECTIN& 
MORE MATH AND EN&LISH 
IN THESE? 
OH, SHOOT. IT 
WAS "TEE HEE. 
PAIGE." 
I 
It's always a mystery why some clubs make it and others don't. 
18  12  13  




17 20 23 
37 
41 
44 
58 
62 
65 Puzzle by Bonnie S. Prystowsky 
34 Carnival weirdo 38 Nightclub of song 39 Reagan Cabinet member 40 "A New Life" 
director 42 Floral display 43 Barrio 
businesses 45 The Perteet Fool 46 Mythical
dreamboat 47 Stationery store purchases 
50 Conclude 51 "Mercure" composer 52 Intervening, in law 53 Lather 
54 Blacken 55 Epitaph starter 56 Miracle workers 
of '69 59 Verb for Popeye 60 Telephone trio 61 French 
55-Down 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Billy Joel, Mike Wallace, Can­dice Bergen, Albert Finney, Pancho Gonzales, Glenda Jackson 
Happy Birthday: You will have no problem attracting attention. Your col­orful way of explaining yourseU and the projects you believe in will lead to all the support you need. Your strong position may be demanding, but will also bring you the results you're look­ing for. The opportunities you receive this year will prove to be quite excit­ing and prosperous. Your numbers: 11, 19, 27, 32, 38, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You will get along surprisingly well with others today. It's a good time to sign legal documents or contracts. A resi­dential move will be beneficial for your whole family. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your mate will be upset if you haven't given him or her enough attention. Take time to do something special for him or her. You won't regret it when you see what is offered in return. 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can expect someone to say something if you try to exaggerate. Don't make rash statements or say that you'll do something you have no intention of doing. 00000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your creative drive should help you finish some of the projects you've been working on for some time. You will be praised for your ability to work in such fine and intricate detail. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Re-evalu­ate your own motives. To judge oth­ers without taking a good look in the mirror will not help them or you. Your overpowering presence will drive away the ones you love. 000 
EUGENIA LAST 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your intuition is telling you not to trust people with your personal secrets. Rumor has it that you should have followed your gut feelings. Trouble is brewing and it's time you put an end 
toit.000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You will be emotional regarding joint finances. Don't lend or borrow money or pos­sessions and you won't have any problems. A tight budget is necessary if you are going to get out of debt. 
00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will be jealous if your partner is spending too much time with friends, Have patience and win back his or her interest by staying busy with your own interests. 00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
Secret affairs are likely, but they may damage your reputation if you aren't discreet. Try to keep your feelings to yourself .and hope the person you're seeing will be quiet, too. 0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't reveal anything about your per­sonal life that could be used against you. It is best to listen for the time being. Drastic financial losses are like­ly if you lend money. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Taking drastic measures will not help if you have a problem with your mate. Talk to someone you respect and ask his or her opinion regarding your dilemma. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take a trip that will help you understand the nature of your business better. Work can be rewarding if you visit clients and get to know them. Obser­vation can be your greatest teacher. 
000 

Birthday Baby: You have the wherewithal to move in many different direc­tions. Good sound moral ethics must be enforced at a young age in order for you to make the most positive gains. You will have no trouble getting the atten­tion you seek, but if you choose to go about it the wrong way, you will get something you didn't bargain for. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, euge­nialast.com, astromate.com.) 
~ 1999 Universal Press Syndicate 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name Address --------------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 

Rested and ready

Packers quarterback Rrell Favre returns from self­imposed rest and expects lo start the season opener.
PORTS 
page 18 

O
THE 
BSERVER Thursday, August 31, 2000 



I I I 
I
I ,· I 
I 
I I l I 
I 
' 
o 
I 
f 
I I• I I 
r 
MEN's SoccER 
Berticelli spirit lives on under Apple 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Spore.; Writer 
Dustin Pridmon' was strolling across campus tlw rnlci day last Jan. 2!i wtwn a ll'itnlmilll' tl1\liv1'rt\d th1\ nf'WS . 
.lustin l>ctlPr sat at his bPsl l'riPnd's 
l10us1~. walrhing thn words slowly flash 
arrnss tht'. b11ttom 11J' tht• sc-rPnn as ESPN 
brok1! tlw storv. 
Chris Applr. was opr.ning the door affor walking his dog whnn Im found our. 
Miko BPrlicl'lli. the !wad coach who 
lt~cl Notrn Damn Soccnr lo thrnn of Nolrn 
Danw's /'our NCAA tot1n1ct11wnt app1iar­
anc1•s. had pai-si-d away suddnnly at agt\ 
48. 
"My initial rPartion was I just couldn't twlil'Vf' it." said Pridmorn, currf'ntly a Sf'tlior co-captain. ''I'd novrr rxpPri­<~nc,•d anything lik1• it. J was in purn shock, I didn't know what to do. it was _just disb(•]ipf." 
Dr.tti>r. now a frr.shman. had just rPrnntly committl'd to playing for Llw Irish aftl'r !wing rPrruitPct by BPrticnlli. .. It was a big shi)('k." said DPUPr. "I only nwt him twice but it aln'ady l't•lt like he was a part ol' my f'amily." 
!\pplr. had SPrvrd as an assistant coach undPr BertirPlli !'or !'our seasons. with ban•ly a day passing whrn thn two nwn didn't S<'<' ont' anotlwr. Eight months lntPr, ttl!' PnPrgPlk :rn-yPar-old SLH'.1·cr.ding his nwntor is still 1•motional wlwn talking about B1irtirelli. 
''I lost a b1\sl fril'nd. a mPntor and sonwbody I workPd with nach day for four yPars," said Appln. "fl took nvery ounr.r. of couragr and stn'.ngth from tlrn team and I to kePp things going and lnarn things from it. !l's onn of those standing room only," said Apple. "It was Gradually, however, the team adjust­things wlrnre you ask why and there is just an amazing outpouring of love hon-· ed. Apple feels that working through
no answer." 
oring a great man." the tragedy brought the young men
The support after the tragedy was 
The administration acted quickly in closer.
ovnrwhelming. Phone calls. letters, 
naming Apple the new head coach. For "Nothing was done alone throughoutflowers, and e-mails poured into the 
the young, team reacting to such that entirr time. And that's kind of car­
socn•r office from former playPrs. com­
tragedy. getting back to the gamP was ried over." said Apple. "I reel that thismunity mr.mbcrs, and many othr.rs that anything but usual. fall we're more together and working as
Br.rticPlli touched during his 23-year 
"It felt really weird, really odd to look one rather than a bunch of individuals
coaching career. which also included over and not see him standing there than ever before."
stops at Thomas College in his native 
and not hearing him saying anything," "The whole family comes together to
Main(\, UNC-Greensboro and Old 
said Pridmorn, "It was really different support one another and the entire fam-
Dominion. 
. .. I always expected him to walk up
"For his funeral the Basilica was 
eventually." see SOCCER/page 22 
FOOTBALL 
Quartet of captains set to lead Irish 
football captains, linebacker lain of the Notre Dame foot­respect you." Denman addr.d.
By KEVIN BERCHOU 
Anthony Denman, defensive ball team is without question "But there's pressure that 
Spons Writer 
linr.man Grant Irons and a fantastir: honor, such an r,omes with that, too. They're tight ends Jabari llalloway appointment also guarantees counting on you to make 
Whil!i thl' forecast for and Dan O'Leary havn the intensR scrutiny and prns­plays." Saturday's s1•;ison opening hnfty wnight of a l'allBn pro­surc. Irons. loo. acknowledgodtusslP with thP Texas A&M 
gram lying squarely upon "It's a drPam come true," thr pressure hr and his Aggirs call!-i for sunnv skirs 
their broad shouldprs. It is said Irons on br.ing named a teammates are faced with. and s Ill oId ii r i11 g tP n°1 p1i r a ­
their mission, their purposP­captain. "! r.uuldn't ask for a "I think it comr.s with the turf's. four nwn will bf' l'ncd­
as <'.aplains to raise that pro­bettr.r group of individuals to territory." he said. "Any time ing an !iVPn more intPnS1\ gram back to its once lofty Ir.ad." you play football· at tlw pin­
lwai. 
heights. "Bring named a captainNewly-appoinlPd varsity Whih, boing srlnctod a cap-shows that your teammates see FOOTBALL/page 22 

CROSS COUNTRY 
Squads race to rebuild 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Assod.ue Spom Editor 
Than ks lo graduation. tlw men's and wonwn's 1·,ross coun­try tnams lind th1imsnlv11s J'orcl'd to rPplace 11101"1\ than half of tlw runnors w h o brought th<1m twin trips to thn 
I')')') NCAA 
Champion­
ships. 
II P a d 
coach .lor. 
l'ianp's 
nwn 's tnarn 
hopPs to conlinu!~ to ridn tlll' 
wav<' of success l'rom last sna­
son. In 1<J<J<J. Notrn Dam<' rap­
turnd its sr.cond Big Hast cross 
country championship in thrPP 
ycars. linishPd as lhP runrwr-up 
at llw District nwPt and racnd its 
way to <'ighth pla1:n at tlw NCAA 
Championships. 
That high-achicwing l<'am will bP missing a f'pw farns this l'all. as Hyan Maxwcll. Scan McMan11s, John l)udlPy and Mikc GrniwP all gradualnd . 
"We'rr> a littlo thin1wr than wP h,tve bl'Pn in thn past," l'iarw said. "But thpre's a ton of potPn­tial." 
llowevcr, thn cream of the\ crop is back and rnady to rom­petP in 2000. 

Senior Byan· Shay will haw a bulls' eyp targnt paintnd on his back after winning last ynar's Big East cross country champi­onships and placing 12th in thn NCAA cross country champi­onships. followed by an imprns­sive track s1mson. Ile f'ollowr.d that up by placing I 0th in thr. 10,000-mcters this sumnrnr in the U.S. Olympic Trials. thn top pcrformancn by a rnturning col­legiatn rnnnor. 
"I In's ono of' the prnminrn run­ners in thn country." l'iane said. 
/\ftnr Shay, juniors l.ukn Watson. Marc Striowski and Pat Conway hope to sr.t lhn pacP f'or thr. Irish. Watson was the srwoncl Irish runner across tlw finish line throughout the 1 '>99 season. while Striowski won the Valparaiso Invitational a yPar ago. 
Snnior Snan ZandPrson and sophomore John Kcarw will abo h<'lp tlrn Irish. KnanP is in his first snason running cross coun­try al'tcr playing scu•cpr and run­ning track in high school. 
Filling out tlw Irish lin<'up will 

see RUNNERS/page 20 


~ 
Volleyball vs. New Mexico Volleyball vs. Fairfield Friday, 9 p.m ar Alma Tournamenr 
Cros.~ Counrry

SPORTS ttl 
Friday, 4 p.m. Sepr. 1-2 at Valparaiso Inv.
. 
ATA 
Sept. 9, TRA 
vs. Tulsa vs. Texas A&,\1 vs. Alma
Sl,1C 

•
Friday, 7:30 p m. ,...,~ Saturday, l 2 p.m, Sepr. 4, 4 p.m. 
GLANCE 




