
Wimpy Willis 
Losing a study day? 
i'vlovie critic Afall Caccamo looks al actor 
The Student Senate learned on Wednesday that 

Thursday
Bruce J.tVillis' recent roles starring as softer 
Notre Dame students may haue one less study 
characters rhan he once plnyed. 
da.lJ durinq the.fall 2001 finals wePk. 
SEPTEMBER 7, 
Scene . page 13 
News . page 3 
2000 

The Independent Newspaper Sen,ing Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
XXIV NO. 12 

Faculty 'engage' Snite visitors with new exhibition 

By ERIN LaRUFFA Assistant News Editor 

Tt's not every dny that one can see television sets, a portable phone and other elec­tronic <leviers iii large sarcoph­aguses. 
That installat.ion, Technophilia by art department chair Father Austin Collins, is just one of the many unique exhibits on display through Oct. 15 at the Snite Museum ofArt. 
Unlike most exhibitions at the Snite, this one features artwork created exclusively by faculty from the '\/otre Dame art department. This is the first time since 1997 that there has been a factilty exhibition at thfl museum. 
Other pieces displayed at the exhibition include furniture made out of recycled materials, wood-fired stonewear and a marble-topped sideboard with a revolver resting on top of it. 
"It's one of the more exciting exhibits. It shows the growth oi' the faculty," said Gina Costa, the museum's public relations and marketing specialist. 
Most art faculty have exhibi­tions at other galleries and did not create the pieces displayed at the Snite specifically for this exhibition, according to Martina Lopez, a photography professor. 
Many art professors, who see the show as an important way to introduce students to art, will take thl'ir studcmts to scr the exhibition, Lopez said. 
One of the show's beneiits is that it allows art students to seo what their professors create outside of class, something stu­dents do not always get to see, Lopez added. Industrial design professor Paul Down explained that students are often curious about their teachers' artwork. 
"I liked what I saw. I think it was really interesting," said junior arts and letters pre-pro­fessional major Nicole Burkette, who is concentrating in art and design. She was able to identify which professor created many of the pieces, she said, because the work reflected the profes­sors she was most familiar with. 

Even for students not major­ing in art, the exhibition has important "entertainment value," Down said. It could even inspire a student to take an art class from one of the professors whose work is dis­played, Lopez said. 
"It's engaging people, and that's its funrtion -to engage the student," said Costa. 

An important way a piece of art can engage students is through the message it conveys. 
"T think that a lot of thr, work that is in the show ... gives us a new perspective," Down said. "Usually artists have a message they want to bring to people." 
Collins' Technophilia, for example, "is a reflection on our society's pervasive use of tech­nology," according to the exhi­bition's catalog. 
Propeller-driven boats are the main focus of Down's work displayed at the Snite. Ile noted that many boating accidents involve propellers, which can also harm wildlife living below the water's surface. 
'Tm trying to encourage con­sumers and manufactures toward a more benign propul­sion system," Down said. 
Some of his pieces show jet propulsion systems. while another shows a young swim­mer dangrcrously close to a pro­peller. The latter picture high­lights the vulnerability of living things underwater, Down said. 
In addition to Notre Dame's faculty, visiting professor Robert Sedlack is also display­ing work -a poster series he created for the Northern Indiana Historical Society. Selected works of emeriti facul­ty are also included in the show. 
FACULTY SENATE 

Profs support paper's independence 
By TIM LOGAN News Editor 

The Faculty Sr.nate thinks somP things should change at Notre Dame. It also thinks some things should slav the same. 
One thing that ·should dr,finitrlv stay tlw sanw is-Tlrn ObsrrvPr'~ rnmplc>tC' Pditorial and advertis­ing indcpend('nrn l'rom the UniHrsitv. sPnators said \V(1d1wsda~. Tlwv voted 20-1 in favor of' a resolution saying Notre Dame's student 1wwspaper has done nothing that would warrant !he tlnivflrsity ('hanging its status. 
"WP think that nothing has happened in the last 3..J. years, and nothing happfmrd last vear, to justify that," said philosc>phy professor Ed Manier, who chairs the Stucfont Affairs Committ<'fl which proposf'd the resolution. 
The mr-asure passed with very little d(1bute among the wholo Senatf'. whirh also passed a motion in May asking University !'resident Father Edward Malloy to withdraw his policy banning advertising from homosexual groups in the paper. 
Wndnnsclay's resolution said no "modifiration or further roditlca­tion of !The Observer's] current status" should be made and that allegations of editorial impropri­Pty against the paper should be dealt with in "good faith" bf'tween its editorial board and the offended party, without University intervention. 
Members of the Student Affairs Committee said that The Observer's track rrcord was strong enough to maintain their indepnndence. and that no inci­dent had come up justifying a change in that status. 
The Observer has been criti­cized in past years for a few bo­latcd incident,:;. including a 1997 comic that many Hispanic stu­dents found offensive, and an advertisement run in 1993 bv a group which denies the ilolor.aust. But Manier said those events are not enough to warrant placing The Observer under the control of Student Affairs or a faculty advisor. 
"The criticism The Observer has taken in the past does not rise to the level of serious charges of editorial irresponsibil­ity or impropriety," he said. 
The issue of The Observer's independence has come to the forefront in the past year, since Malloy said the newspaper was not allowed to run ads from homosexual student groups and other organizations that "espouse positions contrary to the moral teaching of the Catholic Church." 
Since that policy was set forth in August 1999, The Observer has run several ads from homo­s exu al student and alumni groups. and Mallov has formed an ad hoc r.ommitt~e to study the newspaper's role in the University. 
That committee, chaired bv philosophy professor David Solomon, is expected to present its report and recommendation to Malloy by the Pnd of the month. The Faculty Senate does not meet again until Oct. 11, and Manier said the timing of Wrdncsday's vote was intended to give the fac­ulty a voice on the issue before the report is made. The resolu­tion will be sent to Malloy and Solomon. 
In other senate news: 
. Members voted 22-0 in favor of a resolution calling for more faculty involvement in the reviewing the University presi­dent before a contract is renewed. \Vhr~n the Board of Trustees renewed MaHoy's ron­tract for five more years in May, it did not consult enough faculty members, senators said. 


ND explores Web class registration 
By JASON McFARLEY News Writer 
After a vear or focused work on the iss~e. Notre Dame class registration via the Internet is no longer a question of if, but rather when. the S 
University ee Also will imple­"lrishlink ment a 
problems send
Web-based system. OIT scrambling" Pending 

page4
word late next week. "Registrar, OIT 
University struggle with officials said 
system glitches"
Wednesday that the page4 change may come as soon as sometime this fall. 
"We know that students frel very comfortable on the Web. We know that's how they want to interact with the University," said Larry Rapagnani, assistant provost for computing. 
Rapagnani said the Office of Information Technologies lOIT) and the registrar's ollice have bern in serious discus­sion for the last vear and are currently working together to implement an Internet-based registration program within the next two months. 
Come November. assistant registrar Don Steinke said he would like to begin phasing in the system as students regis­ter for their spring semester courses. 
"We'd probably tflst the sys­tem on just one class or grade level," Steinke said. "We've sc,en schools throw their entire student bodies into new programs and it's been a dis­aster." 
If all goes well with the Novembr,r testing, Steinke said the system would proba­bly be in place for the course drop-add period, following students' return from winter break in Januarv 2001. 
The next step·, according to Steinke, would be to have the system fully operational by next April, when students reg­ister for the 2001 fall semes­ter. It would operate. he said, as an option on IrishLink. the 
see WEB/page 4 

l 
1 
1 j j 
j 
J 


r--·-----­
: page 2 The Obseruer . INSIDE Thursday, September 7, 2000 
f =========================================================================================================================================== 
t 
I 
INSIDE COLUMN 
[ A basic instinct 
l I had just dirnlwd into my truck in tlw 
I 
I Walgrrwns parking lot on'.{ I and was about 
I to start tlw Hngim• wlwn I heard a voice out­
I sidP my door. I lookNl up and a man was standing just outsiclP my window. "Can you givP 1111• a hand'?" lw askPd. 
l\ly first instinl'I was just to start tlw car and drivn away. 1!1•lpi11g strang«• 11w11 in dark parking lots was hardly tlw sat'Psl thing to d;, and I had to g«'l hack to work anyway. But wlwn I look«•d at him. sonwthing told nm I just couldn't dri\'I' away. 
So I asked him w·lrnt tlw problm11 was ancl lw launrlwcl inlo a storv Editor In Chief about a tn1ck that ri111 out of' gas and a 1111rnachablP \\'il'P who had his AT"1 ca1·d. lie liwd in Fort \Vayrw and had 1w way of' gPtting hmn1• without soml' gas or somP m11111~y. Ill' said lw had an aunt who lived in South 1{(•11cl, but lw had walkncl to lrnr housn and nobody was honw. lln just nPtidcd a rklr. back lo his truck so he could ligurn out what lw was going lo do. 
OncP again my lirsl instinct was to start tlw l'ar and drivn away. This soundncl just likn a rnlwarsPd story from an accomplished scam artist or. r.v,m worse. a rdrnanmcl story from a <·arja1·kl'r. WhilP my 1'ynical and S1\lf'­ahsorlwd sic!(• was telling me just to drive off ancl let this guy clr,al with his own problrms, anotlwr sid«• was t!'!ling nw this guy really nnl'dPcl lwlp. 
So against my lwttPr judgnnrnnt, I said "OK. jump in. I ran giv«~ you a ridn." 
So tlrn guy walkPcl around to thn otlwr sidn of' tlw trul'k and I unlocknd the door. IIr. slid into tlw st>at and stuek out his hand and we stn rLPd Lal king about !\olrn DamP. 
Wn drovti south on 3 t to the /\rby's where his truck \'\'as parkrcl. As w11 pulled into the parking lot lw said. "I sun' could usn about t 2 burks. That·s all it would takri lo get me honw." 
WPII. I didn·t haVI' 12 bucks. I only had thriw. But I pullnd it out of my wallet and gaVP it to him. It wouldn't bn enough to get him honw but rnaylw it could gnt him closer. lie shook my hand again. hopped out of my truck and walkNl ov1•r to his own. 
I didn't LPll you this story lo brag that I was a gr11at pnrson !'or driving this guy lo an Arhy's and giving him thrnn bucks. I am rntPlling this story lwcause my initial reaction was not to lwlp this man. My initial reaction was not to trust this guy. Maybe I did gnt srnmnwd for thrii(~ bucks. Or maybe I didn't. Maylrn I actually lwl1wd a guy wlio was in lrouh!P a littlP bit. 
.Jesus says, "I was nakPd and you clothed nw. hungry and you gavri me food." I wonder how many tinws I havP walknd by the man on llH• str<•Pt begging for diang<' for a hot meal IH•caus1· I thought h(i was trying to scam me. Why is my first instinct to distrust and doubt tlw man in rwnd? I guess I still have a long way Lo go bel'orn I truly live a Christian lifo. 
The Pieu,s expressed in the /nsicle Column ctrc> /hose uf the author and nof rzecPssarily those ofThC' Ohserzier. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene Erin LaRuffa Man Nania Helrna l'aym: Graphics 
Kate Steer Dana Mangnuson Sports Production Tim Casey Kerry Smith 

Lauren Conri Kathleen O'I3rien Viewpoint Lab Tech !'at Orlewski Ernesto Lacayo 
n,c Oi'N.:f\'C"r (USl1S Cj')IJ 2•400()) I\ pul,lishtd Mom.fay rhrm,gh 1:rid,ay 
1.•x,c:p, 1..lurin~ l'X;tm am.f vacation period..... The Ob~c-rvcr is a member ofdu~ 
A1,,o..:t,1rL·d Pre~,-. All u:pmdt1crion ri1thri, arc re.~rve<.L 


THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 
Thursday Friday 
. Conference: DPloitte and . Book signing: "Lcahy's Touchr Placement Lads" by Jack (onnor. Prnscmtation, 4:30 p.m.. 2 p.rn., Tlarnrncs Bookstore \1cKenna llall. . Lecture: Pat Hayden. . Lecture: LJ\.,\Sl' IU10des Scholar, 8:30 a.111., Internships and Summer Jordan Auditorium. lfos,mrch, 5:30 p.m., C-103, Mendoza College ot' IIesburgh CcntPr. Business. 
Saturday 

. Film: "Lolita," 9::Hl p.m., /\nnonbnrg Auditorium, Snite Museum. 
. Book signing: "Turning 
50: Filly Personal Cdnbrations" by llivia Wu, l0:30 a.m., llammos Bookstore. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
University of Texas at Austin staff stage sickout 
AUSTIN, Texas 
About 400 University of Texas at Austin staff. students and faculty stood on the steps of the Main Building sweating in the record­breaking ·1 l 2-d11gr11P heai Tuesday at a University Staff Association proLPsl rally. 
Catlrnring one last Lime befon1 tlw sickout scheduled to begin today. many audienco members wore staff association T-shirts and held orange signs reading "President Faulkner: Arc you going to fire me?" 
Staff association officials said they expert 4,800-6,000 staff members to participate in the sickout by not coming to work from Wednesday through Friday to bring attention to their demands. 
"Too many of' the working peoph1 


at UT are sick. Thev are sick with worry about how rent will be paid," said Mia Carter. int1irim director of Asian American Studios. "Thoy am sick with drnad because they want to improvn their lives, but th1;y do not want to be punished f'or complain­ing." 
Other speakers included US/\ prns­idcnt Peg Kramer. two UT custodi­ans, associatn professor of' journal­ism Bob .lnnsen and reprnsentatiws f'rom scwHral graduate studPnt. orga­nizations. 
In lrnr spnnch, Kramer tole! tlw audience that the University has dncicled to divert attnntion away f'rom thn f'act that staf'fors arP undc>r­paid and mistn\atPd. 
"The university has dnciclecl to focus on ... the sickout rather than our 17 basic human d11111ands that we announc<'Cl on .lune 8," slw said. "We just asked them to addrnss basic human ne1!cls on this campus." 
US/\ m11mber .IPnnil'Pr Marson­Brooks said slrn folt tlrn nrnf'ting was a success. 
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 
GOP criticizes gay lifestyle course 
Hepublicans seeking to regain a ma,iority on the University of' :vtichigan Board of' Hcgents have targeted professor David Halperin's English 317 class titled "How to Be Gay: Male IIomosexuality and Initiation," asserting taxpayers are wrongly funding a course that teaches immoral behavior. In recent months the class has come under scrutiny by conservatives, adding an intriguing spin to an election that despite its statewide scope usually draws little or no attention. Halperin insists that he never intended to incite any controversy by teaching the English class. "I do not seek controver­sy and I certainly had no intention of' attracting critical attPntion to the university," he said. /\!though unsuc­cessf'ul jn his bid. Auburn Hills mayor Tom McMillin said the class inspired him to run for one of' two Republican nominations for regent. "That was the straw that broke the camel's back," McMillin said, insisting there were other masons l'or his candidacy, including the elimination of benefits for same-sex partners of' university employees. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWearher "forecasr for davrime conditions and hil!h tenu,erarure, 
H  L  
Thursday  1)­ 82  63  
Friday  ~ " ' ' ' '  76  60  
Saturday  ~  81  62  
Sunday  ~  83  63  
Monday  ~  83  61  

Q,Q,~p~QiJ~U 
s11-ers T-srorms Ram F/urri,,s Snow Ice Sunny Pf. Cloady Cloudy Via Auoctaltld Press Graph1csNet 
Sunday 
. 
Art: Ramiro Rodriguez Exhibition, all day. wood­cut and silkscrnnn prints, 2:{0 McKnnna llalL 

. 
Workshop: L«ictor Workshop, 8 p.m .. Basilica of tho Sacrnd Ileart. 



CHICO STATE UNIVERSITY 
Divers search for drowned student 
C:IIIC:O, Calif'. 

Div11rs are still trying to locate Llw body of' .larn(•s "Jamie" Harper, 2(1, who drowrwd /\ug. 27 arter falling 140 !'Bet from a bridgn abovn Lak11 Orovilln. Divnrs from tlw Butte, Shasta and Tularf' l'ountins' slwrifl"s departments triPd to rncovnr llaqwr's body /\ug. 29. but their efforts f'ailnd despite th11 usn ol' undnrwater cameras. "Wn saw an object down tlwrP, but wnrcm't surn if' it was him," said Ellen Clark, public inf'ormation officer !'or California stain parks. "Tlwre am trnns and debris clown there, not to mcntion tlrn extrenrn cold and thrnn-f'oot visibility." Thn S0-degrnn depths ('.ould be a major mason why IIarpnr's body has yet to sur­face. Clark said. "With the cold bPing so snwrn. tlwr«' is a kind of' inversion laynr that holds bodi11s down them," she said. "Tlrnre am som1• bodies in Lak«· Oroville that havn still never surl'aced." Morn und(\rwa­ler equipmnnt is needed to f'ind th«' C:hiro Statn Uniwrsity graduat11, and llaqwr's family enlistPd tlw aid of' the Sierra Vinw Dive Company. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 7. 
CC 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 


Hlgn  Low  Showers  R•ln  T•storma  Flurries  Snow  Ice  sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  
ViB A1soc,~ted P,e,s  
Atlanta  73  63  Los Angeles  81  63  San Francisco  77  55  
Denver  75  48  Miami  93  82  Seattle  68  52  
Boston  75  50  Nashville  79  61  SI. Louis  82  63  
Chicago  79  54  New York  73  57  Phoenix  102 77  
Dallas  93  70  New Orleans  84  73  Washington, DC 75  52  


Thursday, September 7, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 
ND students may lose study day 
Bv LAURA ROMPF 
Assist.mt N,·ws Editor 
StudPnts mav hav<' orw l0ss studv dav duri;1g tlrn 2001 f'all sPmi,s tr.r f'i n a Is wpn k. Lim StudPnt SnnatP learnPcl WPdnPsday night. 
Brraus<· or a rulP srt by the AcadPmic Council. the school vrar rannot start bl'i'orn August 
22. If a normal finals schPdule is used for thP 2001 c.alrndar, finals would not bn completed until Ike. 21. 
Hrrausr this datP is so close to Christmas. tlw Academic Council suggrstrd a nrw finals week sdrndulP. Classrs would cnd on Tuesday. Dec. 11 and two study davs would follow on Wed1rnsday an·d 'Thursday. Friday and Satur·dav would bP finals days f'ollrl\,vPiby anothPr study day on Sunday. and thrn thrcn ronsrcu­ti v1\ davs of' finals starting Monday.· 
Sonw smiators voiced conr,erns about only having three study davs versus the normal four. 
.:I cannot sprak for cvpryone hrrP," said O'Neill llall senator KPvin Bcrrill. "But I nred a switd1-over dav. I nred a dav ~lrnrP I don·t nc·c1!ssarily have ti, do anvthing" 
0
"I know that a lot of studPnts PSpPrially thosP in science and PnginPPring, that do usP all four study days," said Zahm I lall sm­ator Hvan Bncknr. "They havn to usP all four study days or tlrnir gradPs will fall. If it's going to atT1wt Pven a fpw students nnga­tivnly. \\'(\ should look into the 

PICTURE YOURSELF HERE 
pasta, salads and more that seem
TONIGHT 
shoul~ be pricey 
You never know what will develop 

features a fun,
when 1200 members of the class of 2001 
casual atmos­
mix it up. 
phere you don't have to get dressed up for ( unless you want to). Great for groups, too. 
Sl COVER [WITH COUEGE ID, MUST BE 21] 
MEETING 
AND LOTS OF OTHER STUFF FOR A BUCK, TOO. 
222 S. MICHIGAN 
SOUTH BEND 
219.234.5200 
SOUTH BEND'S BIGGEST PARTY 
MORE PICTURES @ WWW.ACEPLACES.COM/HEARTLAND 
isstw more. If we don't, it would br unfair to the students who do uso all that timr for studying," hr said. 
Melissa Hauch. McClinn llall sPnator. told th1\ senate she spokr with llarold Pace of thn Of'lice or thn llegistrnr about the 1rnw schedule and whether it will clnlinitely be used in the fall of 2001. 
"lie said it is not completely set in stone. If we work on it and have the backing of the student body, we could r,hangP it," said Hauch, who is also co-chair of thfl committfle on acadAmic affairs. 
Hauch said the committee on academic affairs will continue to research altr,rnatc schedules. 
"We're going to keep talking about it in committee. We'll go to thr dorms and try to find out the student body's opinion. what their feelings are and what they would prefer," she said. 
Haur,h added that the most obvious suggestion would be to have school start earlier, on August 21, so the r,ommittee will ask the Academir, Council why that sper,ilic date was chosAn. 
"We want to talk to the Academir Council and see why the 22nd dav was Sflt. We will be f'ulh researc~hing the arra before WP·make anv statement or rer,­ommendatio~s." she said. 
"[School starting a day early] was suggestPd by our committee and if we have the backing of' student body, we will try to pass a resolution and have it changed." 
Also discussed at Wednesday's 
222 S Michigan, South Bend 
CALL THE HEARTLAND CONCERT
& EVENT LINE 219.251.2568 
meeting were concerns about 24-hour spam. 
"Because tho CLC only hPard the opinion of' the rectors last vear, we wanted to interview the studPnts," said l.udana Heali. Lewis llall senator. "Our goal is to assPss the situation in ear,h individual dorm." 
Reali distributed surveys to the senators, who were instrur,ted to find out the opinions of students in their dorms. 
"We just wanted for each of the senators to ask the questions to the members (if their halls, to get information from their dorms and just general information," said Reali, who is also co-r,hair of the r,ommittee on gender issues. 
The r,ommittee's main goal is to have consistent policies in all of the dorms, Heali said. She also said that she wants to find out if dorms have an adequate amount of 24-hour space. 
"For the dorms that might not have enough space, we're hop­ing to fix that problem," she added. 
Reali said the committee is investigating one final proposal. 
''We also are looking into hav­ing a students' 'Bill of Hights' postPd in the 24-hour space that would list what you are and are not allowed to do ... This would make policies more consistent." 
In other senate news: 
. The Senate approved the nomination of Veronir,a Kessenich as the 2000-2001 Saint Mary's Collrge representa­tive to the Senate. 
Chicago Steakhouse serves amazing steaks, 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Group debates future Keenan Revue location 
By AMY GREENE 
News Writer 

Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) will be a deciding factor in whether the KPenan Revue will continue to be performed on Saint Mary's r,ampus. 
It has been one of the largest and most successful events nn campus in the past, but there has been recent debate as to whether the Revue "opposes the mission of the College," said Linda Timm, vice prnsi­dent of Student Affairs. 
The Keenan Revue. a come­dy show sponsored by Notre Dame's Keenan Hall, is held every January in the O'Laughlin Auditorium. Notre Dame does not have an audi­torium large enough to ar,r,om­rnodate all the l{evue fans, 
"They use our auditorium because it's public and ar,ces­sible. not because it's on Saint Mary's campus," said Board member Julie Frischkorn. 
Some feel the Revue is "crude and offensive" while others enjoy thP. comedic and sarcastic view of college life. 
"It's personal opinion whether to attend or not, and the school shouldn't take away that option," said Board member Kristy Sutorius. 
A forum is tentatively scheduled so both sides of the debate can be heard. 
"We need a forum to have 
th11 entire student body dccidP as a whole, not just us 
20  BOG  members."  said  
Board  mrmber  Katy  
Robinson.  

Either a forum or a survey will be administered to deter­mine if BOG abolishes or reinstates the Hevue. 
Student body president Crissie Renner is scheduled to meet with this year's director of the Revue in hopes that any unanswered questions or concerns can be addressed. 
Also discussed at thfl BOG meeting was an idea for a new book, "Quiet Hours." Students Shelly Houser, Veronica. Kessenich and Kristen Matha are organizing the final plans for this histori­cal/folklore book which will include experiences about life at Saint Mary's. 
"It is a way to weavP the tales of our past. preserve the memories and restore thn pride of the College," said llouser. 
The book is tentatively scheduled to be published in March and, according to Matha, "any money grnr.rated will go back direr,tly to thA school." 
Other topics addressed were Mr.Candless Hall eler,tions, which will be held Sept. 11, and freshman eler,tions sched­uled for Sept 18. The senior class will have a dance on Nov. 4, and the sophomorn r,lass dance will be Dec. 2. 
219-234-5200 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 7, 2000 
Web 
continued from page I 
I 11t1H·1rnt-acccssi bll' infrwnrntion 
database available to Notre 
Dame studnnL-. and faculty. 
0nm implemnntPd, Web rc'g­
istration would lessen the rur­
rnnt registration system's rolt', 
not rnmpletcily diminish it, ofli­
cials said. Tlw Dirert J\cr.l'ss 
Begistration by Telephone 
( DAllTl systl·m. in place at the 
l'nivrrsity sinr.n 1989. would 
still be available lo studenl'>. 
But l!apagnani predicts that 
most studr.nLs will opt !'or rngis­
tralion over thn lntnrnct. 
"Students scnm to want it. and 
that's why we keep mo\'ing in 
that direction." Hapagmrni said. 
Junior Mike Dougherty, a 
transf'nr studcmt f'rom I loly Cross 
Collrgn. bPliPvcs rPgistering 
over tlrn Internet is a matter of' 
convenience. 
"It's more of a visual aid. You 
can SfW yollr schedule as you're 
building it It's just more conve­
ninn l." said Dougherty. who 
wmd paper registration forms as 
a l Inly Cross student. 
Sophomore Jor Gillnspic agn~es. 
"Ir thn llnivrrsity offered reg­istrnlion on the Internet, I'd us11 it. IL sc1m1s casier than doing it over the phone," hf' said. 
Steink1~ cautioned that si~vcral factors could impPde the imple­mnntation of Wnb registration. I le said tlrn most crucial obsta­cle would be upgrading current Univ1\rsily computl'r software to allow f'or WPb rPgistration. 
"Tlw process has been morn complicated than we envi­sionPd," StPinkP said. "It's taknn longer than we thought it would." 
Setting up an Internet rngis­lralion systf'm will bf' of mini­mal cost to Notre Dame because rurrPnt Univnrsity sol'twarn is already capable of handling online registration. University olTirials said. 
But it cannot do so bpforr a sof'twarn upgradP, which will be part of' the software's adminis­trative and n1aintcnanc11 fees. Ollirials said the upgrade would affect systems in several Univrrsity departnwnl'i, includ­ing admissions. financial aid and student accounl'i. 
"If thern are problems wilh thr1 upgrnde, thPn the lntPrnet­based rPgistration will be dnlay,,d." Steink<' said. 
Alrt~ady, thosn involved with tlw proj11ct havn missed tlrnir projnrted imphmwntation dead­linn. 
Initially. ol'f'kials hoped to rnak1~ Wd, rngistrntion available during the course drop-add period in thr opening weeks of this semester. Organizational problems and a desire not to rush into a nnw svstrm ham­f)f'rt'd tlwir progres;. 
DPspilt' th11 d,·lay. StninkP is roniidcnt that r1•gistration via tlw Wnb is in Llw UnivPrsity's nPar f'uturP. 
"On!' way or anothPr. we 're going to get it in place. Whether that happens this fall or later. that's too Parly to say." he said. 
Once Web registration is a rn,dity 011 campus. oflicials hope it will pavn tlm way for f'urtlrnr student snrvices, such as finan­cial aid and housing application i11 l'o r Ill a tio 11 • through the lntnrnnt. 
"Think about any business that students have to go to a campus o!TicP to complrtn .:_ thny could probably do this on the Web," said Hapagnani. "Our focus is wPbifir.alion for stu­di•nts. providing new services via lhn I nternct." 
IrishLink problems send OIT scrambling 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Writer 
Only a week after it began, a new computer service failed. srmding representatives f'rom the Offir:e of Information Tec:hnologies (01'1') scrambling to correct periods of malfunction associated with lrishLink. the University's Web-based informa­tion application for faculty and studm1ts. 
Troubles began last week and were not widespread, according lo Larry Hapagnani. assistant provost for computing. 
Hapagnani said the problems only alfor.t(\d Notrn Dame profes­sors attempting to use lrishlink to compile information on stu­dents in their classes. More sperifically. the diffkulties were limited to faculty members who on Tuesday tried to prepan) class lists accompanied by studfmts' pictures and biographical infor­mation. 
Hapagnani explained that the 
Universilv stores class lists and student· information in one administrative computer system and photos. taken from student identification cards, in another. 
"The problems arose when pro­fessors attempted to blend the data from the two systems," Hapagnani said. 
Ile noted that in order to print class lists with pictures, it takes the cooperation of four inter­linked computers working in sync. Rapagnani blamed a perfor­mancP error in one of the com­puters for last week's failure. 
By last Wednesday, OIT otncials had resolved the issue, much to the delight of' many professors. Foreign language instructor Odettr Menyard said she uses the available technology to become familiar with her students and to gauge their in-class participation. 
"I am terrible with names and use it a<; a way to get acquainted with students faster," said Menyard. who on Monday printed a roster with photos of students in her second-year Prench class. 
Registrar, OIT struggle with system glitches 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Wrirer 

Helie!' may be in sight for members of th1\ Notre Dame community struggling with NDAccess and J\FS availability. but it looms as far away as mid-Octobnr. 
Since the academic year began. !'acuity, stall' and studm1ts have encountered computing problems. According to Don Steinke. assistant registrar, problems range from slow lrishLink connections to unavailability of tbe system alto­gether. 
"It's certainly been an inconvenience. and it's bncoming more significant." Steinke said. 
lie said his office and the Office of' Information Technologies have experienced dillkultins in detrrmining the nature of the glitches bu.t have narrowed their scope to a known bug in the system. 
A remedy, however. will not likely be in place until the University's mid-semester break, which bcgins Oct. 14. 
Steinke noted that while the problems have rausnd headaches for studenl'>, other network users have bmm just as frustrated. 
Last week workers in the registrar's oflicc wern unable to access the computing system l'or several hours in one day. This occurred on the traditionally busy last day for studnnts to drop or add courses. 
Steinke said he received similar reports of isolated com­puter failure a'i recently as Wednesday. 

Omhudsperson 
The University of Notre Dame is pleased to announce that Professor Kevin Misiewicz will serve as University Ombudsperson for Discriminatory Harassment. 
If you are a victim of discriminatory harassment and do not know where to turn, call the University Ombudsperson for Discriminatory Harassment at 631-3909. 
The University of Notre Dame believes in the intrinsic value of all human beings. It is, moreover, committed to the full peaceable participation of all its members in the educational endeavor it fosters. Accordingly, the University prohibits discriminatory harassment by all faculty, administrators, staff and students. 
In this context, harassment is any physical conduct intentionally inflicting injury on the person or property of another. or any intentional threat of such conduct, or any hostile, intentional and persistent badgering addressed directly at another or small groups of others, that is intended to intimidate its victim(s) from any University, or any verbal attack, intended to provoke the victim to immediate physical retaliation. Harassment in general is prohibited in the University's regulations. 
Conduct as described above constitutes discriminatory harassment, if, in addition, it is accompanied by intentionally demean­ing expressions concerning the race, gender, religion, sexual orientation, national origin or disability of the victim(s), 
For a fuller description of discriminatory harassment and reporting procedures see du Lac, the Faculty Handbook or Staff Handbook. 
--·---·---1 

ATION 
j 
Thursday, Sc>ptember 7, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE ORSERVF.R wnrn SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
New legislature will test system: 
1[ong Kong snlncts a new legislatun! on Sunday, in a syst1·m critics say is rigged to girn pro­BPiji ng l'orcns and businPsses undue power. Still. a minority or seats are experted to go to a vocal opposition that loudly attacks llong Konts politirnl leader. Chinf Executive Tung Chnc,-hwa, as it clamors 1'01· more demof'.racy. 
Hostages see freedom: Six Europeans held hostagr, for months in a southern Philippirrn junglP will b!' freed Friday, their Muslim rcbPI raptors said Wednesday. Their relrasr would leavr Dne foreigner -an Anwrican -and 12 Filipinos in the hands of the t\bu Sayyal' robds. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Texas father kills children: A fatlrnr herded threp 1:hildrnn into their trailer home, l'orcr.d tlwir grnndmother at gunpoint to douse thn plarn with gasoline, and set it on fire Wednesday, killing the youngsters, officials say. Ha fan I I loliday. 21. was jailed on three counts of" mu rdPr. Tlw ynungstp,rs were 18 months old, 5 and 7. Thi' grandrnotlwr esrnped through a window. 
Ex-employee wins against Wal-Mart: 
A former Wal-Mart worker whosA home was raided by company employees and polirn two years ago won $1.65 million after daiming the 1·mnpany wrongly accusPd him of thAft. Wal­Mart promised to appnal the award by the jury. which found thP retailing giant liable for df'f'amation and invasion of priva,y 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Boy survives bulldozer accident: A 
4-yt>ar-old boy from South BPnd was in stablP rnndition \VednPsday with a brokPn pPlvis aller lw was knocked down by a 17,000-pound bu! 1­dozPr that thPn drove over him. Thomas Yr-rglnr wPnl uncir•rneath the bulldozer in a nrrled-up position and the bulldozer "rolled" him. said Lt. William Thompson ol' the,St. .Joseph County Slwrilfs Department. 
Hamilton County man duped: Robert Poshusta rr.reived a phone call from the IIamilton County Sheriff's Department telling him that ii' hn cut down the 8-foot-tall marijua­na plant growing in his home and brought it in. hP wouldn't br' rhargPd. He chopped the tower­ing pot plant down and walked into the lobby of tlw shnriffs department. Ile was then promptly a1TPsted and charged with cultivating marijua­na, a Class D l'elony. It turns out Poshusta was the viclim of a prank phone call. The 28-year­<:ld is bning !mid in the jail on $7,500 bond. 
Market Watch 9/08 

Dow 
11,310.64 +50.03

}ONES 
Composite
Up: Sam~: Dowr1: 
Volume:

1,626 531 
l~64 836,263.000 

AMEX: 'J7i. I 5 +13.17 Nasda,i: 4013.34 -129.84 NYSE: 674.46 -1.74 
S&I' 500: 1492.15 -14.83 
TOP 5 VOlOME LEADERS 

COMPANYISECl!RITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
\HlRLll('O:>I l~C l\'11Cll~1)  ~,.67  -2.21  11.\0  
l"iTEI CORI' tli':TC)  -I.I.I  -.I. 51  6~.70  
CN o·,\.,Tl'.~l, 1C.,C:01  -1.{,\  -1.71  M.2~  
lll·l l.C< l,\ll'l'TER illELI.)  -.\.()/1  -1.10  'l').)0  
.\ll!"R.ll'i!lf'l CORI' fM\TT)  -.'J)'.t  ._(,8  r.~.44  

EAST TIMOR 

1 
l 
j 
j 
1 
j 
j. 
.
j 
j 
j 
j 
l 
l 
Associated Press 
DILi 

Thousands of armed militiamen and their sup­porters rampaged through 
a  U.N.  office  in  West  
Timor,  killing  at  least  
thi:ce workers ­ including  

one l'rom Puerto Rico ­and burning their bodies. The brutal attack brought new pressure against Indonesia's president as he gathered with world leaders at the United Nations. 
Four U.N. helicopters swooped down to the bor­der town of Atambua and safely evacuated 54 people to East Timor, but world leaders quickly and harsh­ly castigated Indonesia for not doing more to protect 
aid workers. Witnesses said Indonesian security forces stood bv as the mobs torched the U.N. office and beat the work­ers. 
The unprecedented vio­lence -one U.N. official said it was one of the worst attacks on U.N. per­sonnel anywhere in the world -cast a shadow over the U .N. Millennium Summit. which opened Wednesday in New York. More than 150 leaders, including Indonesian President Abdurrahman Wahid. stood for· a moment of silence in honor of the victims, who were from the U.N. High Commission for Refugees. 
President Clinton said he was "deeply saddened" to hear of the deaths. "I urge the Indonesian authorities to put a stop to these abuses." 
Secretary-General Kofi Annan said he had taken up the killings with the Indonesian government "at the highest level." 
The militias and their military sponsors have been blamed by the United Nations and Wahid's gov­ernment o( carrying out the bloody destruction of East Timor a year ago after its people voted to break free of Indonesian rule in a U.N.-supervised referendum. 
Indonesia still controls the western part of the island. where the U .N. refugee agency has been delivering aid to an esti­
mated 90,000 refugees who remain in border in camps after fleeing the violence in East Timor 12 months ago. 
The rampage in the bor­der town of Atambua was apparently triggered by the killing Tuesday of a militiaman opposed to East Timor's indepen­dence. Witnesses said some in the crowd accused the United Nations of not paying attention to their plight. 
One of the dead U .N. workers -Puerto Hican Carlos Caceres -sent a desperate e-mail to a U.N. security office six hours before the massacre warn­ing that they had heard a mob was en route to destroy the office. 

Millennium Summit asks for peace 
remember U.N. workers slain when pass." Clinton told the U.N. 
Associated Press 
their headquarters was overrun by Millennium Summit. UNITED NATIONS rioters in Indonesian-controlled On the sidelinns of the conference, 
The world laid out its hopes for West Timor, then launched a three­the statesmen were meeting private­the third millennium Wednesday at day marathon of speeches and nego­ly -Clinton with Putin and with the an extraordinary convocation of tiations on the world's most vexing parties in the Middle East, Israeli 
problems. Outside the ha.II, New Prime Minister Ehud Barak with
leaders great and obscure, and with York's streets gave an alternative French President Jacques Chirac,
a plea from President Clinton for podium to commoners. British Prime Minister Tony Blair
help in bringing peace to the Middle 
In the largest demonstration. with Saudi Arabian Crown Prince
East before it is too late. 
about 2,000 followers of the Falun Abdullah, and many more.
The more than 150 world leaders Gong spiritual movement marclied Privately and publicly, they
-the greatest assembly of presi­
from China's U.N. mission to the exchanged advice and warnings ondents, prime ministers. monarchs United Nations. protesting Beijing's Mideast peace, disarmament. access
and other rulers in history -lis­
crackdown against the sect. There to new technology, and above all,tened as Russian President Vladimir 
were others who protested slavery giving billions of the world's poor aPutin called for an international con­
in Sudan, and still others who better life.
ference to outlaw the militarization 
objected to the Mideast peace The morning started with a lem­
of space. They heard U.N. Ser:retary­process. ming-like migration of motorcadesGeneral Kofi Annan appeal for lead­lsr,rnl and its adversaries "have to Manhattan's East Side. a traf'fic­ership to end poverty and war. 
the chance to do it, but like all life's strangling stream that tried NewThry took a moment of silence to chances, it is fleeting and about to Yorkers' patience. 
page 6 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 7, 2000 

Firmwide Information Session for Juniors and Seniors Thursday, September 14, 2000 Center for Continuing Education, The Auditorium 6:00 pm -8:00 pm 
Career Forum 
September 21 -22, 2000 Mendoza College of Business 9:30 am -3:30 pm 
Equities Divisional Information Session 
Wednesday, October 4, 2000 Alumni Senior Club 6:30 pm -8:30 pm 
Investment Management Divisional Information Session 
Wednesday, October 11, 2000 Center for Continuing Education, Room 210 6:00 pm -8:00 pm 

MINOS. WIDE OPEN~"" www.gs.com 
Goldman Sachs, an eQual opportunity employer, does not discriminate in employment on any basis that is prohibited by federal, state or local laws. © 2000 Gold man, Sachs & Co. 
1J6ZA·S67Z5·09·00 

Thursday, September 7, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
ND grad plays strategic part in Bush presidential campaign 
ment and international studies with a By ERIN LaRUFFA concentration in Soviet and Eastern Assistant News Fclitor European studies from the University 
in 1975.
George W. Bush may have degrees "It was a very good place to be awayfrom Yale and Harvard, but one of his 
from home," she said, adding thatadvisors -foreign affairs specialist 
another factor in her dRcision to comeCondoleezza RkP. -has a degree from to Notre Dame was its "excellent pro­Notre Dame. 
gram in international relations." Rice'sOnly 15 years old when she began 
father also knew Father Theodorehrr undP.rgraduate studies at the 
University of Denver, Hice was Hesburgh through work on the Civil
19 

Rights Commission.
when she arrived at Notre Dame. She 
received a While studying at Notre Dame, Rice
master's degree in govern-

KELLOGG 
INSTITUTE 
Interested in learning more about internships and grants for next summer? Come to our roundtable featuring returnees from all over the world. 
LAASP Internship and Summer Research Experiences 2000 
Tonio Buonassisi Kyle Ledbetter 
The Nature Conservancy, Arlington Washington Office on Latin America 
Kevin Dunn Katie McKenna 
Woodrow Wilson Center & OAS Foreign TV.Com, Mexico City 
Maria Christina Feilmeyer Maureen Rodgers 
Research, Kenya Research, Argentina 
Lindsay Frank Ken Seifert 
Minnesota Advocates for Human Rights Center for Concern 
Molly Kinder Anthony Sieh 
Research, Chile The Nature Conservancy, Brasflia 
Karen WeinerAnne Kordenbrock 
Operation Crossroads Africa, Kenya Sisters of Suyapa, Honduras 
Thursday, September 7, 2000 

5:30 pm C-103 Hesburgh Center for International Sludies 
Refreshments will be served after the presentation. 
worked with George Brinkley, now a State Madeleine Albright's father and government professor emeritus. "loved it." 
"She was obviously a very bright She developed areas of interest in individual. She was very independent -the politics of East-Central Europe and still is," Brinkley said. "She was out­the former Soviet Union, military insti­standing ... I knew where she was tutions and international security. going." Looking back, Rice encourages cur­
Rice has gone from her birthplace of rent students to use their college expe­Birmingham, Ala., to Stanford rience to do just what she did: discover University's provost what they love. office to the White "College is the time House. "/ can't go back and turn to find what you're 
She joined myselfinto a white male passionate about ­
Stanford's faculty not to find a job," she
to see ifit would have
in 1981. In 1993, said. she was appointed come out differently." After she left Notre provost of Dame, Rice earned a Stanford, a posi­doctoral degree from
Condoleezza Rice

tion she stepped the University of 
foreign policy expert
down from in Denver's Graduate 1999. Still part of School of Stanford's faculty, International she is currently on a one-year leave Studies. Brinkley said he has not been of absence from the university. in touch with his former student since 
Outside of academia, Rice worked she was in her Ph.D. program. on nuclear strategic planning at the "I've been following her career in the Joint Chiefs of Staff in the 1980s. In newspaper~ and magazines, like every­1989, she became dirnctor of SoviRt body else," 110 said. and East European affairs on the Rice has stayed in touch with the National Security Council. She also University, though. and has been a served as President George Bush's member of the advisory council for the special assistant for national secu­College of Arts and Letters since 1991. rity affairs. She delivered the 1995 
Rice enjoyed working in the Commencement address at Notre White House, she said, despite the Dame, at which time the University long hours required. She worked in also awarded her an honorary degree. Washington during the fall of the The University named her one of three Berlin Wall and other major National Exemplars. recognizing her changes in the region that is her service to America, in 1997. specialty. Outside of her 
Currently. Hice is work in academia 
presidential candi­"College is the time to and the govern­
date George W. find out what you 're ment, Rice has been Bush's primary for­involved in social
passionate about -not
eign policy advisor service. She is vice -counseling the to find ajob." president of a Boys Republican nomi­and Girls Club in nee in an area crit­California and is co­
Condoleezza Rice
ics have labelrd as founder of an after­
foreign policy expert
one of Bush's weak­school and summer nesses. program for chil­
An African-dren from disad­American female, Rice does not fit vantaged areas. Among other things, the image some Americans may the program offers music lessons and have of a typical member of the hands-on math and science classes. Republican Party. However, she "For me, it is just important to be does not see this as an issue. committed to making the lives of peo­
''I can't go back and turn myself ple less fortunate better," she said, into a white male to see if it would adding that it is "the special rnsponsi­have come out differentlv," Rice bility of educated people to make a dif­said of her life. · ference in the world." 
However, she has taken a differ­Hice serves on several corporate ent path than she originally antici­boards, including those of Chevron and pated. Charles Schwab, and is a member of 
"J was a failed piano major," she the international advisory council for said, explaining that she realized in J.P. Morgan. She is also a trustee with college that she would not have a the National Endowment for the career as a musician. She took an Humanities and a fellow of the international relations course American Academy of Arts and taught by current Secretary of Sciences. 

page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 7, 2000 
Co111panions on a Journey 
By Tami Schmitz 
Ir's a new school year. A new football season. A new season of "West Wing". It is a natural time to set goals and be filled with hdpe for what this new year at Notre Dame can bring. Improving GPA's, spending more time with friends, making it to Rolfs at least three times a week may be some of the goals you hear echoed in your section. However, how many times do you hear yourself or a friend say, 'Tl! go to Mass at least once during che week as well as on Sunday." The most important area of our lives is our spiritual life and it needs our constant attention . Spirituality, though, is often put on the back burner most easily when our calendars and lives fill up wich so many other seemingly more important things. 
What new goals and hopes do you have for building a closer relationship with God this year? Perhaps going on a retreat or stopping by the Grotto a bit more often are some goals which you have been thinking about. We at Notre Dame are blessed with abundant invitations to feed and nurture our spiritual lives. Noc only do we have endless programs through Campus Ministry, the Center for Social Concerns, and the dorms for helping our spiritual growth, but we are surrounded by countless people ­companions, ifyou will-who are the best resource for our spiritual lives. These companions are RA's, professors, rectors, roommates, staff members, advisors, coaches, friends who through their very words and actions provide a daily witness for what it means to live as a committed Christian in today's world. 
As the director of the RCIA (Rite ofChristian Initiation ofAdults) at Notre Dame, I have had the privilege oflistening to many stories ofstudents who come to Notre Dame to get their degrees but along the way are touched deeply by the witness of their peers or someone else in the community. Because of these encounters, they decide to take the time to look more closely at their own spiritual lives. In particular, some ofthese students are moved by the way they see members of the ND commu­nity living out their Catholic faith and so they desire to learn more about it. 
RCIA is one way to start. RCIA is for three groups of people: those who have never been baptized, those who have been baptized another Christian religion and desire to become Catholic, and for those who have been baptized Catholic, but have received no other sacraments. The three pillars of RCIA , study, prayer and community, allow us to learn more about Christ and the Church, develop a meaning­ful prayer life and journey with a supportive community consisting of the RCIA group itself and the larger Church community. These three aspects will hopefully inspire participants to develop a rich, meaningful relationship with Christ and the Church and call them forth to be witnesses of faith to our campus and the community beyond. 
The following are reflections from two students who participated in last year's RCIA process. The first is from Ashlee Logan '03: 
I nroer expected the degree to which RC/A would change my lift. Growing up, my faith experi­ence comisted ofchurch on Christmas and Easter. My parents were nroer very religious and I had never been bapti:ud. 
When I first came to Notre Dame, I looked into the RC/A program and decided to give it a shot. I asked one ofmy good .friends to be my sponsor and we began the RC/A journey together. Atfirst I had many doubts. There are so many choices involving faith and it was hardfor me to knowjust how my faith wouldform through this process. The strongest force keeping me in the program was the reassurance that I didn't have to complete the initiation ifI didn'tfeel ready at the time. 
Throughout the RCIA process one ofthe things I liked the least was leaving mass early since all of the catechumens leave before the consecration during the months ofpreparation for the sacraments. One Sunday as we were walking away .from the church a fellow catechumen said to me, "I am really glad to be doing this with you. " This catechumen was a 50-year old Jewish woman, the wife ofan ND alumnus, who I did not expect to have much in common with, but realized through our brief conversation the common bond we shared as a result ofourfaith journey and the process we chosefor ourselves. At that point I began to truly appreciate the RC/A community. 
Following the conversation with myfellow catechumen things started falling into place. My lift changed in unexpected ways. I began to feel this community bond not only within RC/A but also within my other rela.tionships. The more I learned about God and His miraculous ways the more I felt atpeace with myself At the time ofinitiation I had many friends andfamily come for support. I was both surprised and thankful for how much others cared. It was amazing how much I learned and discovered when I gave RC/A a try and risked a part ofmyself in the process. Although RC/A is notfor everyone, it was a wonderfol experience for me and has changed my liftforever. 
The second reflection is courtesy of Katie O'Banion '02: 
Last year, I volunteered to sponsor a catechumen in the RC/A process. Never did I anticipate the joy and peace that wouldgrow as a result ofthis sharing offaith. Journeying with my catechumen taught me about.friendship, honesty andcommitment. Working within the small group fostered trust, laughter andpersonal revelation as we shared stories offaith and learned more about the Catholic church and the community we were fostering because ofour commitment to RC/A. Standing before the congregation during the Saturday Easter Vigil brought tears, success andgreat peace. RC/A is a process for both the candidates and sponsors to come together as a community working towards the ultimate goal ofgrowing closer to God andfinding God in the people whose lives we touch and encounter on a daily basis. 
One Sunday morning our small group discussion centered around Confirmation experiences. Everyone shared their own personal stories ofwhen they felt or understood the presence ofthe Holy Spirit in their lives. It was truly a beautiful conversation among close friends who had once gathered for the first time as strangers. W'e were not sharing our calculus answers or our weekend gossip, but rather opening our hearts andsharing our e<periences with one another on this faith-filled journey. 
As a "cradle Catholic, "I thought I knew everything I needed to know about the Church. I real­i:ud through my involvement in the RC/A process that I am only at the beginning ofthis journey I am glad and truly blessed that I happened upon the RC/A advertisement in The Obseroer last fall I encourage everyone and anyone to seize this opportunity to become a traveler, a partner in faith and a stutknt ofhappiness! It changed my lift. 
We are companions on a journey. May we help one another along the way this school year as we strive to meet our goals academically, personally and most ofall, spiritually!! 
Ifyou know ofanyone or you yourself are interested in the RCIA process, please contact Tami Schmitz (1-3016) or Justin Dunn (1-3390) in Campus Ministry at 112 Badin Hall. Our next info session is Sunday, September 10 at 1:00 pm in the Notre Dame Room ofLafortune Student Center. 
Thursday, September 7, 2000 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Elizondo describes cultural importance of Lady Guadalupe 
By MYRA McGRIFF 
\h..·ws WritL·r 
Lady Cuadalupc IVit·gin dr. <;uadalup(1I has bPconw a uni­vnsal symbol or hoaling and unity, said Father Virgilio hlizondo during his lncturr. "'(;uadalupc: Prophd uf a Ncw llumanity" 
On the crest or a nmv sl'hool year Saint Mary's Coll1ign kickf!d o!T liH·ir acadPmir tll(•nrn, "'Chicana 2000: hmPrging ldcntili(•s." with a lecturr by NotrP DamP profossor Elizondo on llw 1.acly Cuaclalupo. Winner nf' tho 1<J97 Lact,.rn Award. tho Notrn Dame award for achiovn­nrnn t. Elizondo gavr. personal and historical account on the importance of Guadalupe not only to the Mexican community but to pnoplc around the world. 
"On the very birth or Amnrica." said Elizondo, "tlrn Lady Guada!up<i spoke to the commonality of p0oplc and their bnliels." 
!Wzondo lectured from his lat­est book. "Guadalupe Profit of a N<'W llumanity," to an audi<mrn of students and community rnombcrs on tho importance of the Ladv of Guadalupe. lie 
stressed her powers of proler:­tion by reaching all peoples. healing the wounds of all people and bringing together all peo­ple. 
"ShB calls all to be concerned with tho welfare of one anoth­er," said Elizondo. "caring for the disabled. the elderly and poor. She brings us all together. With tho position of her hands in picturr.s symbolize her offar­ing hersPll'to all people." 
To understand the signifi­cance of the Lady Guadalupe in so many peoples lives, Elizondo recounted the first manifesta­tion to Juan Diego on the sarred 

mountain of Tcpeyac in 1531 Elizondo, "but with the Cesar af'ter the defeat and domination Chavez movement working of Aztr.c natives by Spaniards. through the devotion of Lady "II<' begins to beliiwe what Guadalupe. farm workers saw society has told him." said change." Elizondo giving account to the It is that same devotion that feeling of Juan Diego after th11 draws not only Mexir,ans or bishop disbR!ieves the vision of Catholics. but also 1wery type of 
the Lady that  pnople  to  
Diego saw. "He begins to believe that he  "She calls all to be concerned with the  rnspect the powr.r of the L a d y  
rnally is just a  welfare ofone another. "  Guadalupe,  
dumb Indian.  Elizondo  
but the Lady says I have chosen you. the  Virgilio Elizondo priest  said. Still, some may wonder  
Iittlest of all to  about  how  
go  before and  the story of  
speak ofme."  L  a  d  y  

Through the simple story of Guadalupe is applicable to the the oppressed rising out the hustle and bustle of college life. ashes of their defeat. many rev­"She gives you a feeling of olutionary movenrnnts stand accompaniment: she is a behind the Lady Guadalupe. maternal listener," said 
"Nobody thought the farm Elizondo. "She is a source of workers of California would uplifting and strength; you are iwer become victorious." said never alone." 
Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 
Actors from the London Stage As You Like It 
by William Shakespeare 
Thursday, September 14 ............. 7:30 pm 
Friday, September 15 ................... 7 :30 pm 
Saturday, September 16 ............. 7:30 pm 
Playing at Washington Hall Reserved Seats $1 6 • Seniors $14 • All Students $1 2 Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631·81 28. 
A me~~i;c from PILLARS
1 drink = 1/2 oz. pure alcohol with Alcohol & Drug Education 
311 La Portune Student Center 
which is approximately Univen<ity of Notre Dam~ 
(219) 631-7970 
10 oz. of beer = 4 oz. wine = 1 oz. 80 proof liquor 
http:/fwww.n,\.eJn/-nldrnr/ 


-

VIEWPOINT 

SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 

r::=============~,er::========~,u 

THIS ISN'T WORKING 8 MAYBE. YOU CAN OUT. I HAVE TO LET ! GET YOUR OLD JO{) 5 c 
YOU GO. ! 3AC\<. AT F/\RWORKS. ! 
i ~ 
I rr::::a;::~==========:::::;d] 
'ti 

~ ~ 
u ~ 
r o 
~ ~ ~ ~ 
i.__....,_..................... .....---,J.,..¾___ ____ ____
~ 
THE OBSERVER 
P () Ho, tJ, NPtrC' ll,1mc. IN 4h'i'i{, 
0..!-'1 '.'-,\1u1h Ilinn1~ I!,ill. Notre P.ww, IN ,jfr)C,l1 
El>ITOI\ IN CJ 111'1 
.\ Iike ( ;onnolh· 

MAN,v,IN(; Ft,noR Ull!,INF..,s MAN,\Gflt :-Jnrn·n ( ;;1lc•,1•h· f'im I..me 
A.~.H. M1N,HilNt; [IJf'l'Oll 0/•1'1!,\rlONS MANA(;J:Jt ( :h,i,t111c h:, ,,h· llri.111 h:,,,kr 
Nrws Elli nw: :\nnt' ,\1.,rit' ,\l.1m11i:lv . VH'IX'l'fllNT El>11 on, I il.1 I Lwe:hrr 'if'ol! rs Elli 101<: K,·r"· Smi1h SctNI'. E1>1 nm: ,\1i,.111.t.1 (;,cco S,\INT MAIIY's Ennon: .\!01!1· c\l,\'o)' 1'11010 f:111 IOR: lli1.1l-.·d1 I..mi; 
Al>VUUI\IN1; M.•\NA<;FI\: 1':11 l'ercf\ AD I)f.:,ICN MANA(,fll; ( '.hri, .\Yii.1 Sl'HI.AI~ A1>MIN1~·nu lilR: .\lik,· t;,111vilk Wm AnMINISl!Uhllt: :\tl.1111 Turnl'r CoN"tnou.rn: lloh Woml.s (;R,ll'IIICS u,11'01\: '"'" Cudl.,r 
CONTACT Us 
O!l!U MANA1;rn/C1'N!HAI INrn .............(,.1!•7471 FAX....... . . .. .. ..............6.\ I .(,')27 AnvnnlSIN(; . ...A~ l-(,<)()()/8840 
nh-,·rwr0\I.Hwin.cc.nd.nlu E1>1 rcw IN C1t11-.F... .. ...............6jI -45/i2 MANA<;J:,j(; El>lltlll/A~sr. ME. ..............6.'>1-4'i41 Bl ISINFSS (hl'lCL .. .............(,51.'i., U 
Nt·WS... 
V11.w1•01NT .. 
S1•01ns . ScENI· ..... 
SAINT MAR\·'s... 
1'110 IO...... . 
Svsn Ms/Wu, At>MINISTR.HOllS ................(>.\ 1-KR.N 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Vi,ir om 'X'l'b sir,· ;,r l,1f/':llohJt'rl'rr.r11lrd11 for d:iily t111e.l.1te~ ofGlmpus new~. s~,11rt~. fr~nun:s and 01linion column,.•l\ wdl ,ts cun.>ou~. rl'vic:\.V\ and brt:aking rn:ws from 1h,· ,\.wKi,unl Pr""· 
Sllrff ro: 
weather for ll)Ho-t!w 
movies/music for 

mint1tl' l(>rrcast.s 
wcd<ly student reviews 

advertise fi,r pnlici,·, 
online feature, for .sp<'­

.ind rat,·s of prirn .,d, 
ci,11 campu, cnvtr,1g,· 

archives to search for 
about The Ohscrver 

.miclcs published .1ftt·r 
ro met't thl' editors and 

Augmt I 'l'l'l 
,t.1ff 

POLICIES 
The ( )h.,l'rvcr is rhe independ,•m, d:1ily newspaper p11hli,hed in print .md onlinc by rhe m1dents ,1f lite Uni"crsirv ui'Nmrc D.mtl' ,lu l~1e rnd S,1int Marv's Collcg,· i'.dicorial con1e1H. including :1<lverci.scme;u,, is not gmwm·d by policies of the administr:Hion oll'ither in,unuin1>. The Observer rcsc·rvcs dll' right m refu.sc· .Hlvt·ltiscnll'1HS hast.·tl on (ontenc. 
lh,· news i, rq1um·,I ,is acrnr;11dy and ohjcctivdy..,, l'""'hk·. lJn,i[:ll<'d <"dirord, r<'pr<·,ent rh,· upinirm of the rn,1imity orthe Editor in C:hid'. Managing Editor. i\ssist:tnt ,\l.rn.1ging Editor .md ,lq1.1rtmcnt cdirors. Crnnmc.·11t.1 ric.li, lcnt.·r.\ .111d cohunns prcsenc dit.· views oi' tlw ,111thors and nor necessarily those ofTh,· 
( )!,,,.,vcr. Viewpoint sp.ice is av.1il.1bl,· to .1II readl'ts. The free ,·xpn·ssion ol .111 opinions chrm1gh lcucr, "encour.1ged. 1.cm·rs to the F.ditor must h,· signed and muse i11dt1de 
C011l;tC( infor11t.Hll)[l. 
f/1,e,rt1n1,· 1·1:(,trd111g ()/,irrwr po!icie1 ilJnuld br dirrct­rd Ill l'.,liwr 111 Oiir(Mikr {,i1111w/(y. 
................r,., 1-"d23 
oh,,T,·<.'r.ohsnl'Ws. J@'nd.edu ..............Al J.'i.\0.1 oh,cr\'n.viev,'point. l GllrHL<.'Ju .........................................(,5 l-4'i·'I.\ nhSt·rvc.-r.spon,. I@lnd.edu 
...............6.'> I -4'i40 
oh,l'rvcr.sc<.'llt·.1 ~i'nd.cdu .. ................ 6.,1·4.U4 "h,...rvcr.smc 1@'nd.edu ...... ...................(,31 •8?(,7 

0BStRVER Thursday, Septcrnlx:r 7, 2000 

~ 
~ ~~ 

Catholic teaching is facing obstacles 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"l\s a Roman Catholic I thank God.f<Jr the heretics. 1/eresy is only another wordj(Jr .freedom qf' thought." 
Graham Greene author 
I am ortPn askNl what diflicttltins or obsta('foS tlwrn are in dl'vPloping prn­grams in Catholic social tPa('hing at col­lPges and uniV(\l'Sitios. This st11nn111r. 14 Catholic l'Ollngcis and universities nwt al Notre nanrn to dis­cuss jusl lhal and it is noteworthy that llw partil'ip,i°nts dis­rovored paltl•rns that am common to most o[' tlwir institutions. I should lwgin. though, by Pmphasizi11g that tlw n~c.-nt focus on Catholic idPnlilv al tlrnsn collr.ges ,~nd univ!ffsitit)s has c-rpatcd an opnn· 1wss to tlrn intro­duction of such programs. 
Virtually all ol' the proposals dcvnl­opPd for programs in Catholic social tf:aching at the various schools drnw upon thn mission stalenwnls nf the respnctivn institutions. Most of these mission statmrnmts havn bmm craftml or re-craflml in the last decade and most draw upon key terms of Catholic social teaching -for instancn, human dignity, solidarity and the option for the poor ­to highlight a dndication to the common good of' society. 
This rn-focusing on Catholic identity is a conscious response to a r.onstellation of trnnds -from the low11ring of thP numb(~r of' rnquirnmcmts in theoloi.,ry and philosophy to the hiring ol' more nar­rowly quantitative analysts and fr.wnr broad t!worists in disciplines like nco­nomics -that hac; squeezed specifically Catholic content out of the curriculum. /\dministrators and otlrnrs awarn of' this pattnrn IJavn welcomml the idea of developing programs in Catholic social tr.aching. 
Thn primary obstaclP to the devnlop­mcmt of programs in Catholic social tPaching and tradition is a split betwenn theory and prnclicn that manifests itself' 

in a numlwr of' ways in collngn and uni­V(~rsity SPttings. Catholic social lnarhing has always bcf)n both a sophistirntPd social tlwory and a guidn to everyday practice. In a setting wlwrn thr)rc is a split bdwnnn tlrnory and practin'. thnrP is C(lnfusion as to wlwre a progrnm that joins tlw two ought to be 10(:at!'d. A bias that a numlwr or tlw conforPnco partici­pants nwntionnd is min among tlwir acadPmic collnaguns who fnl'I I.hat brn:ausP Catholic social t(\aching involvns sPriously posing to studPnts tlw question or how tlrny plan to liw tlwir lives, it is not appropriatP as a focus of' acac!Pmic study. In this viPw, stwh a pro­gram is lwst situatNI in and limited to campus ministry. This bias is olkn cou· pied with a devaluation of servirn or community-bas11d learning as "sort." One sourrn of this bias. I believe, is assumption that all or the academir dis­ciplinns should mnulatc thn sciences. This is a modern assumption. 
i\ longer tradition is that of practical reason. which serves as a rubric for llw study of nthics, politics and nconomics, and runs from Aristotle through Thomas Aquinas and includes thn tradition or Catholic soci,il tnaching. 11nm, tlw task of reason is less to analyzo first princi­ples or caus!1s -that is the task or Uwo­rntical rnason -than to aid studonts in the devnlopment of "phronesis" or "practical wisdom." 
The dnvdopment of' such practical wisdom not only allows for what we now call experiential learning, it requires it. Practical wisdom grows out ol' guid('d reflection on exp<'riencn. It is notewor­thy that pratical wisdom is, in this tradi­tion. an intPllcctual virtue. Such lnarn­ing is no h\ss rigorous than that whi1'.h takes placn in thnornlical mason. 
If orw's model is tlrn modern one o/' all disciplin(1s emulating the schmces and mathematics, thnn any program in prac­tical reason -whnthcr spPcilically Catholic or not -will have a tough go of it. The philosoplwr F.11. Bradlny wrotn in 1884 that the idea of' practical rPason "has lwen pla('Pd 011 tlw slwlr 111' in!Pr­<'sting illusions." 1rthis is tlw dominant viPw, tlH'n a program in Calholir social tradition will lw dillirult to <'stablish. In Notn• DanH'S casP, this vi<'w was expresst~d. and PxprPSSPd strongly, in tlw Collr,gi• Council. bul thl' proposal for a program pass<'d :~ 1-2 . 
TIH' rnnlinuing pffort to stn•ngtlwn Catholi(' so('ial thought and tP,l<'hing in tl1P uniwrsity n1rrinrlum d<'P('llds 011 how this intPrad ion lwlWPPn modPrn and dassical undPrstandings or l<'arning and S!'holarship plays itsPII' out al a numlwr o/' lc'\'Pls. On tlH' ad111i11islrativ<' levPI, llH' provost and tlw d,•ans 1nusl makP dillirult dPl'isions with rngard to tlw allocation ol' limitPd l'unds. Ilow tlwy prioritizP dnpnnds on which modnls or tlw arad(m1y tlwy find rnnvincing. In Notn• Damn's casP, tlw provost and dPan or Arts and LnltPrs approvPd a modest budget for tlw Program in Catholir Social Tradition that is adP· quatn for this Parly stag<' in i!s d!1wlop­nw11l. Programs at olhPr schools wit.h fowpr rnsoun·ps and 1wrhaps IPss (·on­r.rPtn ('.ommilml'nt among administra­tors to tlu~ Catholic idPnt.ity of' tlw insiti­tution are having a much mon• di/lkult timP sPcuring tlw thn'I' nPrPssitiPs of' any program -timP. !'uncling and span\. 
/\nothPr !owl at which tlw casl' for practical mason and Catholi(' social tnaching bPconws an issuP is that or tlw !'acuity. Tlw ] 1-2 votP in tlw CollPgt' Council is a strong sign of' opP111inss. Tlw nnxt qunstion is t.hat of' how t.o mow f'rom gnnnral 01w1111Pss lo tlw actual inf.Pgration or Catholic sorial thought into courses across tlw uniwrsity. I will takn up this quPstion IH'Xt timn. 
'/'odd /Ja//id 14'hitmore is w1 i\ssociat(' Pni/cissor in the Theology /)epartrnent. I/is column appears etwry other '/1wrsday. 
'f'lw /liews e:rpres.•wd in this mlumn are those rlthe ((U/hor and not r11ir·1'!/­sarily those qf"/1w Ohsen•er. 
VIEWPOINT 
OTHE Thursd::iy, Septemher 7, 2000 BSERVER page 11 
POLITICAL FACE-OFF 
Delineating the 2000 candidate platforms 
Continued prosperity and human rights part of Gore platform 
On .Jan. 20. tlw United Statns will once again witrn:ss orn• of' its great r,:n1monial institutions. On thal day. notwithstanding some immanPnt revolution. tlw country will witness the peace­ful trans1'1•r of' power from Prnsidcnt Clinton to 1!11• still unchos1•n presi­dent-Pinet. From now until 
Liam Brennan

Plt•t·tion day, tho nl1ir­torat1• of' Anwrira hav1• th<' opportunity-and tlw rPsponsibil ity -of choos­College ing tlw 1wxt national Democrats 
IPadPr. .'\s Nowrnlmr draws dosPr, il bPcom,is 
doan•r that. /\I Gorn is llw candidatli with tho 
lwst possibility of' dPliVl'ring tlw promise of' 
,\nwrican t•qualily and lilwrty to the nation. 
In a rnuntry that boasts to hold "splf~pvidPnt" that "all nwn an• 1-r,·all'd Pqual," tlwn• is an u1wasy allia111·(• lwtwP<'ll tlw political powPrs and th<' \walthi(•st individuals. ThP /\nwriean publil' has justifiably folt that tlw one votP allot­tl'd lo na!'h IJPrson is losing its inllmince as Llw rise• in ('arnpaign ('Osts force randidatns to ('Dll­tinuallv sPan-h for runds and kowtow to corpo­ral!' d\.mors Lo iinann, campaigns. 
Tudav. most Forlurn, 500 companins !ind it within Llwir intPrPst to donatP largn amounts or unn•gulaLNl "son morn•y'' to both political par­til's. whi\·h is tlwn indirP('tly used in c·.ampaign­ing Pll'orts. As prc•sidc•nt. GorP has promisrd to makP tlw \,ll'Cain-FPingold bill. which bans soft mo111•y am! strPng'llwns alrPacly \'Xisting cam­paign lnws. !lw first bill lH• sPmls to Congrnss. To l'urtlwr limit tlw inllunncc of' money and slrPngllrnn Llw pmwr of' rilizPns, ,,\I (;ore will \\·ork lo n•quirP broadcastPrs to provide candi­datPs in rnmpaigns targi,ted by issue advocacy advNtis,•nwnls with an Pqual amount of frr,e lmmdrast tinw to rd'ut<' alta('ks against tlwm. 
IIP would f'urtlwr work to nnsun' American lilwrty by s,•rnring llw rights orv,orking f'ami­li<'s throughout Llw nation and abroad. Gort' supports lngislation to ban rompani1•s from pt>rnHlllPntly rnplacing striking workers. I le also plans to irn-rPasP tlw minimum wage by $1 owr tlw rn•xt two yPars. !wiping to dPlivPr Anwrirn's prosrwrity to thn rest of' the nation. lIP is also cl1·dil:atPd to incrnasing tlw Earned lnronw Tax Cn•dil. to lwlp supplnnwnt tlw inrnnw of working f'amili<•s in the low<'st ,,co­nomic brackPLs. 
Moreovl~r. unlikP his main rnmpetition, tho vie,• prPsidPnt realizes that f'rP(! trade is not a good that Pxists in a vacuum. lie wants Lo sPcurn trad<' agn!Pm1mts that contain provi­sions that will protPcl tlw nnvironnwnt and labor standards. 
,\l ( ;orP is th1~ only candidate of the major two partins that plans lo USP his presidpntial 1msilion Lo cnsun• that <mvironnwntal protec­tions. workPr rights and human rights am components of trade agreements. 
v\'ith a strong belief in what FDR described as an inherent Amerkan right to a "freedom from fear," GorP has a sensible plan for secur­ing safe American communities. He proposes to hire' 50,000 more community police officers and 10.000 morn prosecutors to protect the nation's citizens. Additionally, Gore plans to attack the underlying pniblems thnt often lead to criminal bAhavior. 
lh! plans to increase aftPr-school programs to givn young pPoplP positirn alternatives during the critical 3-8 p.m. time period, when most juvenile crime occurs. He intends to create second-chance schools where kids headed for trouble or those caught with weapons can rnceive the strict discipline and intensive services they need. 
Finally, Gorp will not bend to the special interests of groups like the NRA. I le supports a plan to provide a slate-based photo licensing sysl!'m for handgun pur­C'.hasers, much like lirnnsing now used for motor vehicle dri­vers. Lnder this system. no law-abid­ing hunter would losA his or her weapon. but criminals would be impeded from purchasing such materials. Ile would extAnd the Brady Law to include a mandatory background check on those people attempting to purchase guns at gun shows. 
Through sensible step-by-step initiatives, Vice President Gore plans to secure the rights and liberties or average Americans around the nation. While he does plan to cut the "marriage penalty" tax, Gore opposes attempts to provide large, risky tax cuts to the wealthy. From edu­cation to health care. Gore is the only candi­date• who has the desire and the potential to hdp the least among the nation partake in the fruits of prosperity. 
The 2000 election is a referendum on the Ameriran conscience. Should the national com­munity as prosperous as ours be concerned with the good of all citizens, regardless of' class? Is there the will to securP opportunities for _jobs, safety and education for all people in the United States? If the electorate answers "yes" to both those questions, on January 20th, 2001, Al Gore will be sworn in as the next President of the United States. 
l.iam Brennan is the president ofthe College Democrats. Political Face-Off will appear every Thursday until lhe election. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those of /he author and not necessarily those of The 0/Jserrer. 
Bush intends a proactive role for government 
Prosperity, growth and opportu­nity have characterized the last eight years in our nalion. Thesn succnsses are attributed to no one party, but rather they are the result of bipartisan 
Greg Kelly 
cooperation and interest in the American people. Yet College there is noth-Republicans ing the 
Republican congress could do to amelio­rate the damage done to .,,.~~~:?"-the legacy or the White House by the _....,,.~Z.t:i1\ Clinton/Gore adminis­tration. 
Unlike Al Gore, who hopes to ride thr, cur­rent economv into the 
White House: Governor George W. Bush plans to take a proactive role in continu­ing to improve the lives or 
each and every American, leav­ing no one behind and dragging no one down. 
Many of our public schools are inadequate and do not give stu­dents the life skills necessary to enter the workforce or pursue a college education. Governor Bush's plan aims to narrow the achieve­ment gap between disadvantaged students and their peers. He hopes to do this by ensuring that every disadvantaged child can read by the third grade, extending grants and funding for underprivileged students to pursue science and technology and not giving failing schools taxpayer funds. 

Parents will have the option to send their children to another school system if they are in an area with a poor school. Governor Bush believes that no matter how much money is given to a school, unless it is properly used, the level of achievement will not increase. 
The federal government does not know enough about local school systems to make decisions on spending and how to improve edu­cation. Therefore local communi­ties should control their own school systems, while having to meet national rigorous standards to ensure that all students are given the same opportunities. 
Federal taxes are the highest they have ever been in peacetime. The popular perception is that Republicans only want to lower taxes for the wealthy. The truth is that Governor Bush wants to lower the marginal rates, which arc highest for the lower income brackets. 
Under Governor Bush's plan, a single mother making $22.000 would pay no income taxes at all. This is just one example of elimi­nating the tollbooth on the road to the middle class. Governor Bush also calls for the total elimination of the death tax. which plagues farmers attempting to pass family farms to the next generation. No one should have to visit the ceme­tery and the IRS on the same day. 
Social Security is a pivotal issue in this election and to young Americans it should be of utmost importance. Unless properly reformed there will be no Social Security in the future. Electing Governor Bush will ensure that Social Security will be alive and well for years to come. 
Social Security must be run on the same principals of a private business, which includes .cost cut­ting, smart investing and maximiz­ing profit. Governor Bush believes that privatizing social security will ensure its success by holding someone accountablr,, while at the same time reinvesting in American business. 
The choice we make in NovembPr will impact our schools, our economy and our future. It is imperative that our nation decides to continue moving forward and leave no one behind. Republican George W. Bush is poised and pre­pared to continue the success the nation has seen, while restoring integrity to the White House. 
Greg Kelly is the president ofthe College Republicans. Political Face­Off will appear every Thursday unlit the election. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

__-:...-:..-:..--:..--:..-=..---::.:..:..============================================================================================================= 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Correcting lethal injection process error 
I am writing in rd'erm1c,~ to the viewpoint by Lauren Jiltny in WPd., SPpL 8 issue of' The ObsPrver titled ..l'rot.1•sting dnath as pu11ishmr11t." Without. getting into a Jong and drawn out argument on the death penalty l would likP tu point out a glaring orror in a stat<-rrn·nt sh1~ makns f'OIH'Prning tlw use of' lethal injrn•tion. Thn 11uthor states. 'Tlw horror of !Ptlml injection is also kept shame­fully snrrnt. Thrnc shots arn administernd. The first shot paralyzPs Hw musd11s. This way. tlw face ·won't reflect that the internal organs arP actually going through armagcddon and to Llw witnesses it looks ·µeacef'ul."' 
Th<' problmn with this statcmC'nt is that it is flat out wrong. I know this pnrsonally from oxporience in the medical field as au Emergency Medical Technician and I confirmed my suspicions at North Carolina's Department of Corrections Web site. The first drug given in a lethal injection is thiopental sodium which is a heavy sedative used in the op,:rating room to knock people unconscious. 
The paralyzing drug, called Pavulon. is then given but by then the person being executed is unconscious and is not able to foci that he is being paralyzed. To complete the execution most states thPn use potassium chloride which totally stops the heart. 
The only pain the inmate feels is the slight stick from the two intravrnous lines. but most inmates are offerrd valium to help calm them while an IV is being started. If I had to be executed I would choose lethal injection hands clown bocause you never feel a thing. The porson being executed is done so without pain; that is why the execu­tion looks "peaceful" to the witnc~ssos. 
The point ofthi~ letter was not to figure out who's right and wrong in the death penalty issue but a valid argu­ment can not be made against the death penalty that uses inrnrrect information. 
Stephen Carroll frc,hm.rn Knorr Hall September 6, 2000 

M 
C 
ne E 
page 12 ______ Thursday, September 7, 2000 
MOVIE FEATURE 
P.T.'s house of frogs and porn 
Two recently released DVDs showcase director's talent 
By JEFFREY Q. !RISH 
Scene Movie Critic 
"Wn may Im through with the past, but tlw past ain't through with us" is just 0110 of llw many tlrnmns in direc­tor l'aul Thomas And('l'Son's latPst mastcrpincc "Mag-rwlia," which was n•IPas1•d onto ])\ii) this pust wnek. 
Thi' film is basically n day in tlw lil'n of' ni111· lrouhlnd diaractcrs whose livPs inttirsnrt in lhe Snn Fernando \'allt1y. Although univPrsally prahwrl by 1·.ritics, "Magnolia" failed to con­1rnct with an audin11c!i at thP box nf'!'ic1!. Solll(\ audie11n~ members thot1gh1 t.lrn movi<' was "too long," or "too b or ing. " 0 t Jw rs , h ow P v e r, thought that it was a trun triumph. Undoubtedly, "Magnolia" has polar­iz('(l its audiPllCI' and carv1\ct itsPlf' a placn in l'incmatic history. 
The title 
Then• has hncn much dnbatti con­cPrning the masons for the tillc of' tlrn film, but 1·pcnntly Anderson has shed sonw light on tlw subjPet. "It's l'ore­most tlrn intnrscction (or street) where Llw dirnax of tlw film takns place. Secondly, it has been hypotlrnsized that tlrn bark from a Magnolia tree could help cum cancer [two charac­h!rs in the film suffer from the dis­ease]. It is also a close name to Magonia, which is a mystical place I read about. Magonia is like a Bermuda Triangln of some sorts in the air. it's likn this plan: when: things (like frogs and guns) go when they arc missing until they finally fall back down to the earth." 
The falling frogs 
Towards th<' end of' tho film, there is a sudden shower of frogs that envPlops ull of tho San Fernando Va!IPy, disrupting each character's actions. 
HeliPV(i it or not, but it rains frogs in real lif'e. This rare phenomenon takes plac,1 in parts of the world with heavi­ly concentrated frog populations such as lhe Amazon Rainforest. Tornadoes touch ground and pick up the frogs and carry them miles away where thny 11oat in the atmosphere until the winds die down. The result is an amphibian rainfall. 
At thn beginning of the film. Anderson ingeniously sets up the viewer for a freak occurrence by rncounting a series of three stories. 
lie tells the story of the man of Grnenbcrry Hill who was killed by three other men namer! Green, Herry and llill; the story of a scuba diver who was killed in a forest f'ire; and tlw story of an attnmpted homicide that prohibited what was to be an unsuccessful suicide, but was some­how ended by a related accidental homicide. "This cannot be 'one of those things,'" the narrator says. But the setup prepared the audience for 'one of those things,' and two hours lat<'f a phenomenon takes place that shocks cvervone. 
Anderso~ claims that he did not 

Photo courtesy of New Line Cinema Paul Thomas Anderson, one of Hollywood's great young directors, has three films under his belt. Two of them, "Magnolia" and "Boogie Nights" were recently released on DVD. 
know that frogs could rain in real life. He explains the raining of the frogs as thus: "you get to a point in your life, and s--t is happening, and every­thing's out of control, and suddenly, a rain of frogs just makes sense." 
The DVD 
The DVD itself is a two-disc release similar to that of "Fight Club." One disc contains the movie and one con­tains the supplemental material. The supplemental material is less than one would hope for, but a lot of' it is hilari­ous. It has two extended versions of Frank "T.J." Mackey's (Tom Cruise) pathetic sexual empowerment semi­nar and a few of the usual DVD extras such as the trailers and television spots. 
Unfortunately, there is no Anderson commentary track to go along with the movie. In replacement, there is a 75-minute "Making of Magnolia" doc­umentary that shows Anderson at work. It is very cool, but disappointing to those who have loved his commen­taries on his previous DVDs. 
"Boogie Nights" re-release 
A new version of P.T. Anderson's second and most notorious !'ilm, "Boogie Nights," was also released this past week. This updated version is a two-disc double platinum St'ries from New Line Studios with digitally enhanced coloring and soundtrack. There was apparently some color dis­tortion in the original transfer (some sc1ines leaked red) on last year's release, so the studio and Anderson decided to re-release the film. Aside from that, there is little on this ver­sion that was not on the original plat­inum edition release. The only notice­able additional feature is that of an alternate commentary track taken from the laserdisc version of' the movie. Still. "Boogie Nights," which tells the story of a young actor in the porn industry, is an nxcellent, gmuc­bending mastnrpiece, and th!1 DVD is worth buying. 

P.T. Anderson's next 
On a sadder note, it has been con­firmed by a publicist of Andnrson that he is almost done with a conrndy script that will soon team him up with former "Saturday Night Live" star Adam Sandler. Anderson met Sandler on the set of' SNL last season as he was fine-1.uning his comedic skills. Let's just hope that Lorne Michaels, responsible for such hits as "Coneheads," "A Night at the Roxbury" and "Superstar," doesn't produce the film. 


E • 
Thursday, September 7, 2000 page 13 
MOVIE COLUMN 
The re creation of Bruce 
llemember the old Bruce Monkeys," or as chilling as  break, Willis used to play real  
Willis'' Star of the "Die Hard" "Striking Distanr:e." Also,  hitmen in the old days.  
trilogy, "Pulµ Ficlion" and keP,p in mind thut Willis made  Remember "Billy Bathgate"  
"The, Fifth Elenrnnt?" ThP. almost this exact same movie  and "The Jackal'?" l\iot partic­ 
problem isn't remembrring two years earlier with  ularly great films, but nt least  
this Bruce \\illis, it's soeing "Mercury Rising." Except in  they let Willis play the part he  
him. IIP is no morP. that movie Willis  was made for. Nol this year.  
Suddenly. lhe old. was the leading  Now. when Willis is put in a  
action-star Brue!' Matt Caccamo man; in "Sixth  mobster 111m, he's the straight  
\Vil/is has becornn Sonso" he plays a  man for an endless stream of  
the 1inw, kinder, supporting rule to a  tired Matthew Perry jokes,  
gentlPr Brnce Willis Scene Mouie little bov. of' "Tl11• Story of Us" Or ho{v aboutCritic  And finallv, ihis summer's trugedy of i children's film,  
l'amP. Yep, Willis has "The Story of Us,"  "Disney's The Kid.·· Not much  
go,w soft !Ir has Pasily onf; of thr  of a ch.ange from tho "Nine  
abandoned the act worst movies oft.he  Yards," except now Willis is  
that madr hinl famous for past decadP? Willis stars  the straight man to a 10-year  
sonwthing 11ntirnly 1111w -and opposite Michelle Pfieffer as a  old's jokes. And please, Willis  
nntirPly ridiculous. husband in a marriage that  in a Disney movie'!  
Considrr thr last fnur big­just isn't working. Sounds fine  Somewhere John McClane is  
nanw films Im has starred in. in theory except that Willis  crying.  
beginning with last yc,ar's treats his marital problems  Hut let's not put all tho  
i\caclc'mv ;\ward-nominated more like a hostage negotia­ blame on 13ruce. He's simply  
"Tlw Sixth Srnse,".Sure, this tion than a family matter. I  copying what others have  
looks likr• 11 chilling tale of was just waiting f'or him to  done before him, most  
ghosts and terror. but is it break lose and blow uµ the  notubly John Travoltu.  
nwlly'.' Orms it match up to kitr:hcn. Ile didn't, the mClvic  Travolta broke onto the  
t!w zaniness of som<' of Willis' did.  scene in the late 1970s with  
oldPr movins'> !l's nowhere Next up, this spring's "The  "Saturday Kight Fever" und  
near n s strange> as "12 Whole Nint' Yards." (;ive me a  "Gn:iasfl," onlv to fade from  
, icw for over ·a decade. Ilis  
comeback was made possible,  
in large part, because he  
transformed himself from a  
heartthrob singer-dancer to a  
more mature, versatile actor.  
Charging back into Hollywood  
with "Look Who's Talking" in  
1989 (in which, coincidental­ 
Photo courtesy of 20th Century Fox Films ly, Willis played the voicfl of  
In the "Die Hard" series, Bruce Willis played a wise-cracking,little Mikey), Travolta  
tough-as-nails cop. Now he's lost his edge.endeared himself to comedy  
fans immediately. He lalM  
proved his crime stripes in  has achieved the opposite:  the terrible taste that was left  
"Pulp Fiction" (13ruce was in  going from actor to singer.  in everyone's mouth from  
that, tool and his dramatic  Former athletes like Jim  1996's "Last '.\1an Standing."  
abilities in "Primarv Colors,"  Brown, O,J. Simpson and Dick  Or maybe Willis wants to  
His transformation·was a suc­ Butkus have also mado suc­ recapture his youth and  
cess.  cessful, though short, careers  transfer himself back to his  
Others have succeeded in  on the big-screen.  early days, when he was on  
even more revolutionary  So what happened to  the television series  
transformations. Will Smith  Bruce? Why did he decide the  "Moonlighting." Whatever the  
went from an early-'90s rap•  time was right for a change?  reason, it isn't working.  
Photo courtesy of Walt Disney Pictures Bruce Willis' more recent roles have paired him with child actors, such as Spencer Breslin in "Disney's The Kid."  per to a latc-'90s leading man with hardly missing a step. More recently, Jo_nnifer Lopez  Maybe it was the criticism his last action movie, "Armaged­don." received. Or maybe it's  So, what should Willis do to regain his lost form? Three words: "Die Hard 4."  

MOVIE REVIEW 
Overdose of pot jokes kills 'Grace's' momentum 
ing 60 minutes. Each Joke is now example, Grace's elderly lady from the introduction of the char­receive criticism from someone,By JUDE SEYMOUR hit or miss depending on whether friends stumble upon her green­acters that the relationship will so the plot turns to a contempo­
Scene Movie Criric 
the audience will find funny a house and use a plant !ear for work out. rary version of "straddling tho 
housewife growing hemp plants their tea. In minutes, we see the When Matthew and Nicky fence." It is not marijuana that 
In his directorial cir.but, Nigel in the greenhouse behind her lwo ladies giggling and munching embrace in the water near the saves Grace from money trou­Coln prcs(mts a British comedy 
estate and trying obnoxiously on completion of the film, solidifying bles. It is unfortunately some­about a housewife n:imnl Grace to avoid going to "Saving Grace" corn llakes. their love, the romantic clement thing a lot less believable, but 
Tn'wthyn and lwr very big prob­jail. The movie is has done nothing but slow the very legal. 
lem. 
A couple of 
in trouble: the laughter in the film. When the Here is where the main fault of Graen (played by Brenda 
striking visuals jokes are laugh­audience is not laughing, it is a the movie lies: it was conceived Blcthyn) has been lnf"t with a (smoking pot able, but do hazard for this movie: it cannot with an ending that invalidates mountainous load of dl'bt thanks 
over a clifl) and a nothing to stand alone ½ith its dramatic ele­the movie's sole source of humor.
out offive shamrocks 

in full Lo her rocently deceased pop soundtrack advance the ments. [n this case, maybe it is not a husband. It seems Grace's hus­
(with a verv plot. Moreover, the character drvol­movie whose discussion after­band has mystPriously died at the Director: Nigel Cole
English flavor') In addition, a opment of Grace is rather stan­wards should be based on the pnrfoct time: the moment the an~ not P.nough to Starring: Brenda Bh!thyn romantic ele­dard. The movie provokes the weakness of the ending (or so 
crnditors and repo-mnn am corn­
supply any addi-and Craig Ferguson ment is rather audience Lo feel sympathy for her says a fellow moviegoer). This ing to disstm1i11alo thti Trnvothyn 
tional depth. The hastilv outlined situation early so it can justify her reviewer comes from a different 
estatP Without a job nncl facing a movie will be a for us, Grace's illegal activity later. When the school of thought, however,:mo thousand-pound debt, 
hit or miss with the audience gardener, Matthew. is struggling creditors and the police start get­which stipulates that a movie 
Cracr's innocent. conversation 
based on tho presentation of each to make his relationship work ting close, the story was designed should attempt to achieve groat·with her gardener leads to a gold successive pot joke and also if with his long time girlfriend, so the audience would root for ness from beginning to end. 
mine idea: 1-,rrowing marijuana in those jokes can be woven togeth­Nicky. While the director pro­Grace to somehow avoid jail and In this case, if you am lookingtwenty kilo chunks to s11bsidiw er to make a satisfying plot. vides a clever parallel in two earn enough money to keep her for a smart British comedy in the her rather quainl lifo. 
As with all successful British scenes (scenes or Nicky at church house. same vein as "Saving Grace,""Saving Grace" has immediate• comedies, the movi!' explores interspersed with a scone of Naturally, a movie that pro­rent 1998's "Waking Ned Devine" ly presented us with its main 
minor characters that provide Matthew helping grow the mari­motes bulk marijuana distribu­for a decidedly more satisfying source of fodder for the remain-jokes for certain scenes. For juana bud), the viewer knows tion to solve life's problems would payoff. 
page 14 771e Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 7, 2000 
.• 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Montreal puts stop to St. Louis streak with 7-2 win 
sions. f'acrd tlw Cardinals for second double, Ilidalgo·s sac­The Pirates went 6-0. fin­against Miki' Fettns. th1• first tinw sincP Sept. 26, rifice rly and Alou·s HBI ishing off their l'irst three­I<J98. whPn h,• allowed Mark groundnut. game sweep al Dodger
ST. UlCIS Padres 7, Brewers 6
McCwirn's (lith home run of Stadium since 1988 following
Vladimir Cut•rrt•ro hil two Woody Williams WP11t 3-f'or­
tlw SPason. Giants 5, Phillies 4 a thrcr.-gamr,\ sweep at San
ho 1111• runs and \1 on trP ,d 4 with an HBI and pitclwd six
,\ loss would havn dropped Ellis Burks hit. an infield Diego,
stoppPd St. Louis's six-garnr. shaky innings as San Dingo
the Expos to a .season-low 2:{ singlr. in the nighth inning Pitts burgh's s n as on -high
winning strt•ak with a 7-2 vii·­b1·at Milwaukee. 
games bPlow .!i00. Tlwy wern and San Franrisco defeated six-game winning strl'ak has
torv. Williams ('J-;i) scorPd San
42-42 at the All-Star brnak. Philac.lnl-phia for its nighth come al'tor a 4-17 slidn. Brian
l>uslin IIPrmanson 111-121 Dil'go·s f'irst run and hil a
straight win. (iiles had thrPI' hits and drovP
struck out four. walki,d two run-scoring singll' in thl' l'if'th 
Tho Giants took a season­in two runs.
and gavP up Sl'VPn hits in Astros 13, Marlins 5 that t.ir1d I.ht'. gan1<1 at<,.
high 7 1/2-garnP lead in the Seral'ini, winless in his prn­
i,ighl innings as LhP Hxpos Chris Trubv hit a two-run lie is batting .28(1 ( I4-f'or-
NL \Vest and rnatchrd their vious f'iv!' starts, 111\ld thP
stoppNI ttwir thrPP-gamn los­honrnr in a seven-run fifth 49 l th is snason with Pigh l
longest winning string ol' the Dodgers to two hits in thn
ing strr.ak. inning. and JosP Lima won !Wis. including .:H,3 112-l'or-
VAilr first six innings SPrafini (2-'.{I
(; Ul'rrl'ro hi l his second d11spile giving up two more 3'.{) sine,, rl'turning f"rorn tlw 
. Philadelphia lost its eighth lasted 6 2-:, innings. allowing
hom!' run in tlw Pighlh for his homprs as Houston beat disablPd list .lulv 2. It was his
in a row. four hits and two earnod
sixth multihonwr game. and Florida. s c c o n d t h J"I' P -1; i t ga nll' t h i s 
Vir,entr Padilla (3-51 walkrd runs.
10th or his can•1•r. The two Lima 17-151 allowed fivH ynar.
tlrn bases loaded and Burks The lr.ft-handr.r struck out
honwrs \\'Prn thP first of' his runs and sl'VPn hits in eight As for pitching. lw allowPcl
hit a ball inlo thn hole. Third !'our, walkr.d one and was
ran•cr al Bus<'h Stadium. innings. striking out six and six runs and Pighl. hits.
baseman Scott Holen fielded removed after giving up All'x
Cardinals start1•r 1;arrr.tl improving to (,-2 in 12 starts walkl'd l'ivn and struck 011l
the ball. but had no chance to Cora's two-()ut tripln in the
St<' p h P nson ( l 5-8 l gav P up sincP J ulv 9. fivl'. Tr<'vor I lolTman l'inislwd
gl't an out as Marvin Benard stw1\nth and a single by
rour runs, nine hits, struck But ho· gavl' up homers to with a perl'Prt ninth !'or his 
came home with thti go-ahead pinch-hittr,r Kevin Elstnr.
nut six and walk('{! one in PrP.ston Wilson and pinch-hit­38th saVt! in 45 rhancns. 
run. The Dodgers managed only
l'ight innings. !IP is winless in lf'r Chris Clapinski. Lima has .Juhn Snyd!'r (]-81 was
Aaron Fultz (4-2) pitched thrne rarned runs against the
his last two starts aftf'r win­allownd 42 bom0.rs. eight taggt\d for s1\VP11 runs, night
two scoreless innings striking Piralt)s in thn three-gamn
ning his prt•vious four dPci­short of thr major league hits and Sl'VPn walks in l'our­
out a rarner•high five, for tlrn series.
sions. rncord BPrt Blyleven set with plus innings. Ill' is 0-(i in I:{
victo1·y. Alan Embree record­Pittsburgh third basPman
St. Louis took a I -0 ll'ad in Minnesota in I986. starts sine(' .lurw 22.
ed the final two outs for his finriqun Wilson and shortstop
Llw third with tlw help of an Truby went J-for-5. includ­Bichit~ Sexson was :{-l'or-4

second save. Pat r-.foarns cnmmitt0d throw­
Prror bv S('rond basnman ing u triplP and thrnn HBls. !'or Milwaukl'P with a honwr
The Giants took a 4-0 lead ing nrrors on consf'rutivn
Josn Vidi·o . .l,D. DrPw singlt•d .Jtd'f BagwPII and Hichard and four !Wis. 
in thP first against Handy routine groundt'rs by .lim
and WPnt to third on a singl<' Ilidalgo Pach drovn in three Tlw crowd or I:", .777 was 
Wolf. Calvin Murrav was hit Levritz and Chad KreutPr in
bv Jim Edmonds. l>rPw srorPd runs. thP smal!Pst !'or a gaml' al
by a pitch and ev"entually th<; second inning.
~hnn Vidro bobbl,1d a Jesus Sanchez (8-10) was San DiPgo this wason.
sr:ornd on a singln by Barry The miscues ended the
groundnr hit by Will Clark. lagged for eight runs and With Milwauk<'I' IPading (i-:i
Bonds. Pirates· Prrorless strnak al a
Tl11• l\xpos look a 2-1 lead seven hils in four-plus in th I' fi f't h , S n v d I' r I :{ -8 l 
'With two outs. Burks sin­s0ason-best ;i8 innings. and 
0

in llw l'ourtb wlwn Vladimir innings. walkf'd Miki> Dar r and Desi
gled and Huss Davis followed !wiped thr. Dodgers scorP two
Cul'J"l"l'ro hit his 3:frd homnr Truby put Houston ahead Hr.laford,. and David W<'atlwrs 
with his eighth homer of the runs without the br.rwt'it of a
aftPr a singln by ,\ndy Tracy. with an HBI triple in tho l'irst gavP up a on(•-out singl<'. 
season. a threr.-run shot ov0.r hit after thev had l'al!Pn
The Hxpos add1•d anothPr but DPrrek Lr.p's run-scoring A walk lo Damian .Jackson
tlrn !!'fl-field fmH'.e. behind 5-0. . 
run in thl' fil'lh on back-lo­singlr. tiPd it in thr. fourth. loadPd thP bas!'s. and 1•:rir
In tlrn third. Bobby Abreu The Pirates. whos1' thrPn­
b,u· k d o u b I P s b v O r fa n d o ,vfoisf's Alou 's 27th homer OwPns drov,· in I.he go-alwad
tripled off thP glove of' a lPap­run first inr1ing TuPsday night
Cabn•ra and Brian· SchneidPr. again gave Ilouston the lead run with a groundnut.
i ng Bonds in thP left and triggen1d an 8-0 victory,
Th!' Cardinals got their SPl'­in t lw b o tt o rn h a I f, b u l Snxson's HHI sing!<' put thl' 
scored when Doug Glanvill11 scored four in tho first olT
ond run in tlw Pighth whl'll Wilson's 25th homrr. a thrne­Brcwpr·s aht•ad in lhP l'irsl.
singled to makP it 4-J. against Ismael Val dos / 2-7 ).
dn•w doublPd and sron•d on a -run drivP, gavP Florida a 4-2 and his two-run honwr in lh<' 
Wolf startnd the tying rally The right-hander was
sing!" by Will Clark. !Pad in thP f'ifth. third, his 2(it.h or thn sPason
in the fifth with a one-out sin­charged with fivc runs and
With lhf• scor1• 4-2 after IIouston look a 6-4 Ir.ad in and I 0th sinrr' MilwaukPP
gle against Mark Gardner. eight hi ls in six innings. and
G1wrniro's sPcond homnr of thn big bottom half when acquirPd him from C!Pvnland 
Abrr.u walked and Glanville foll to 0-3 since rnjoining tlrn
llw ganw. rPlit'VPr Alan lfrnt1s Lugo and Jdf Bagw0.ll hit on .July 28. 
singled to load th11 basr.s for Dodgers in a July 26 tradl'
ga.vl' up thn final three Expos conscrutive t,-vo-run doubles. San DiPgo tiPd tlw srorP in
Hohm, who singled home two with the Chicago Cubs. 
runs in tlw ninth. Cabrera, l!idalgo follownd with an t.hn third wlwn .la<'kson hit a 
runs. John Vandnr Wal drove in
who rnarht•d on a doublP, HBI doubll' that rhased two-run hornl'r and SnvdPr 
Travis Lee l"ollowr.d with a Pittsburgh's first run with a
scorPd on an Prror bv short­Sanchrz, and Trubv hit a two­walkcd llnlal'ord with. th1• 
sacrifice lly that tied it. double, Wilson and Alex 
s top Edgar HPntf'ri,i. and a run homPr off M,tnny Aybar b as n s load P cl . t hI' n w 1• n I 
llernandez addr.d HBl singlr•s
two-run homf'r bv Milton that made it 9-4. ahead 5-] in thP fourth on
and Pat Mnarns cappPd thc
Brndlev. · llidalgo addnd a sacl'ifice fly Pirates 8, Dodgers 3 Owcns· HBI singln and ()avP
rally with a basns-loadPd sac­
llnrn;anson didn't allow anv in thP sixth. Clapinski hit his Dan Serafini pitched six Magadan·s sarrifir·P.
rific0 fly.

r u n n l' rs p as t s"co n d bas ;i first major leagun homer in strong innings before nreding Milwaukl'n rdook thl' lnad
The Piratr. s bl0.w it op1:n in
al'll'r FPrnando Tatis' doublP the sev1•nth. relief help and Pittsburgh in thP firth on (;poff .IPnkins'
the eighth with two-out HBI
in th<' fourth. llouston added three runs compl!'tcd a perf'ect West BBi singln. Snxson's run-srnr­
singles by Adrian Brown,
llermanson. \'\·ho had lost in thn Pighth off Brad l.oopPr Coast road trip. beating Los ing doubll' and .l,\romy
Jason Kendall and Giles
lhrnP or his last fivt! dP1:i-in thr. eighth and Bagwr.ll's ,\ngelr.s. Burnitz's HBI singlP. 
I 
I 
I I 
t The Ohservcr accepts dassifieds ewty business day from 8 a.m. to 311.111..H the Nor re D.unc oH.u·,I 024 South Dining H,111. Deadline for next-day dassifi,·ds is 3 p.m. Al d1ssifinls musr he prq1ai,L
i 
I The charge is 3 cents per d1aracrer per da)', including .ill spaces. The Observer reserves rill· rigln to ,·dit
CLASSIFIEDS

I .111 dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
LOVE KIDS?  ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE  ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED  I need three tickets to the Nebraska  
NOTICES  WANT TO EARN GOOD MONEY BUT ONLY WORK A FEW HOURS A WEEK?  AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS http://rnmmrentals.homepage.com/ email:mmmrentals@aol.com  TICKETS  A.M. -232-2378 P,M. -288-2726  game, Please call 24 7-9849 and ask for "El Indio"  
SKYDIVE!! Training Students for 35 Years 1 Hour North of South Bend GREAT LAKES SKYDIVERS, INC. 1-800-351 ·6617  Area family needs individual to care for two daughters 2-3 times/wk from 3-6 p.m, starting mid-Sept Mom attending grad school in Chicago. Girls are delightful! Transprtn need• ed. Generous pay' If interes1ed, please call Karen Slonehill al 272­5013.  232-2595 2BR, 2nd fir. Apt. 525/mo. Along St. Joe River. Include. Water/Sec. Syst.fTrash 288-2654 or 288-2788  BUSINESS MAN NEEDS Nebraska tickets or season G.A. only. 277-1659 FOR SALE· STANFORD. AIR FORCE,  ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE A.M. -232-2378 P.M. -288-2726 NEED 3·5 GA TICKETS FOR NEBRASKA FOOTBALL GAME.  PERSONAL Recent ND grads need Turtle Creek apartment to crash at tor ND-NU weekend. $600 and will stock  
.._  WANTED SPRINGBREAK 2001 Hmng On-Campus Reps SELL TRIPS. EARN CASH, GO FREE!!! Student Travel Services ArnericaOs u1 Sludent Tour Operator Jamaica. Mexico, Bahamas, Europe. Flomla 1·800·648·4849 www.gospringbreak.com EARN EXTRA CASH Word,processmg from d1c1atton involving client case studies. Musi have computer, Dictaphone provided. Call for info + interview mornings, M-Thur. Ask tor Cindy. 287-3373  Need babysitler in our home for 7 • month-old. Granger. Must have car & references, 243-5618 Job direct wants to HIRE YOUI #1 rated sIudent job search is seeking enthusiastic reps. More info: nrodgers@nd.edu For Sale 1 mile from ND in quiet neighborhood, 2 Bedroom very clean $69.500. Call (219) 264-4966 FOR RENT SOUTH BEND LODGING In-home B&B lodging for football games & ND-SMC events. Close to campus. Breakfast included. Call (219) 243·262B or garyb@mvil· lage,com 2 BDRM APTS. FOR 2000-01. ALSO LEASING FOR 2001-02 DAVE 291-2209  That Pretty Place, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit 1107, 1-800-418­9487. J have 5 bedrooms for rent in my nicely•decoraled private home for FootbaH weekends: less than 2 miles north of stadium, continental brkfst included. Many happy repeat customers! Call Kirn 277-8340. FOR SALE Women's Schwinn Bike 26 Like New Robbye 631-6218  BOSTON Cheap, 654-0168 WANTED ND FOOTBALL TKTS 289·9280 SELLING ND FOOTBALL TKTS 251-1570 VICTORY TKTS BUY'SELL'TRADE ND FOOTBALL 232-0964 BUY/SELL ND TICKETS 273-3911 ALWAYS BUYING NEBRASKA 271·9330 TICKET MART BUY/SELL/TRADE ALL GAMES 271·9330  PLEASE CALL 1-630-904-6418 THANKS BUY/SELL N 0, FOOTBALL TICK­ETS. HOME & AWAY GAMES. {219) 289-8048 Need tix 75 Grad need 2-4 GA for Neb and/or Pur Call Tony (714)523-3686 Need 1 cheap Purdue Ticket. Call John 4-3670 GA Ticket Available for Nebraska Garne • Sept. 9. Lower Section, 20 Yd. Line. Contact Jay: (201 )264· 0262 Need 4 Nebraska tix 634-1430 Need GA's: 4 Stanford, 2AF, 2BC Chris 634·4751 Beeley.1@nd.edu  apartment with lots of food and beverages/fund big party Counteroffers encouraged. mattea@alumni.law.upenn.edu I NEED YOUR HELP! l'M A '92 ND GRAD AND LOST MY YEARBOOK IN A FLOOD IF YOU KNOW ANYONE WHO HAS A '92 YEARBOOK AND WOULD NOT MIND PARTING WITH IT, PLEASE CALL ME AT 830-772-5956 OR EMAIL AT esquivele@m1ndspring.com Thank you, Cristina Ortiz I refuse to be the office trollop. My apartment if full of upstanding young wornen . To answer the long-standing ques­lion .., the A&M stand for nothing. It's true. Call. See for yourself.  


Thursday, September 7, 2000 The Observer . 
page 15 


Controllers Department Interviewing on Campus Friday, October 6, 2000 
Be Part of Our Team! 
Submit Your Resume to the Career Services Office by no later than: 
Thursday, September 14, 2000 
-

MINDS. WIDE OPEN~M www.gs.com 
Goldman Sachs, an equal opportunity employer, does not discriminate in employment on any basis that is prohibited by federal, state or local laws.© 2000 Goldman, Sachs & Co. 
Thursday, September 7, 2000 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS -----=-----=--------~---=-------=--=-==========================================================-:_=--:=-:_==========~=============-=--:__=-=-=-=--=--=-=--==­
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Royals rally in ninth inning to top Yankees, 3-2 

A,sociat~d l'ress 
Ki\NS/\S CITY 

Carlos F<>bks dm1bl1•d homr tlw t.ying run and scornd on Johnny Damon's singln as Kansas Citv rallit><l in th<' boUom of tlw ninth inning to beat NPW York :~-2. 
Tfw Hovals b1iat N1'w York for onlv lh<; srl'ond linw in ninl' ga,;ws. DPrPk JPlr.r and Paul O'N<'ill homerPd l'or thn Yanknos. 
With one out in the ninth, Davn McCarty singlPd off Mik<• Stanton (2-31. Pinch-runnPr Luis. Ordaz srnrnd on Feb!fis· doublr, and Damon f'ollownd with his fourth hit of thn g.t111f'. 
Stanton blPw his fourth straight suv<i drnnrri. 
Brian Mradows (4-21 pitdwd his sncond rnmplPlli ~amr of' tlw season !'or thn Boyals. !In gave up nirw hits. struck out thren and walkl'd onr. 
Chuck Knoblauch returned to lh<' Yank,•1\S lim•up and w,•nt 0­for-+ in his f'irst game sincP going on tlw disablrd list Aug. 3 with tendinitis in his right elbow. Tlw srn·ond basPnHrn was mis­takl'-J'rl'r rPc'ording two assists in a solid p<'rformancc•. 
Nt'v\" York's Orlando I IPrnandPz pitdwd shutout ball into tlw righth inning. ht>lping himself by starting two double plays. Thr blown save by Stanton clrniPd l•:l Duque his fifth straight win . 
.Jor. Handa hil into both of thP double plays startrd by /lnrnanclez. who also had two othn assists on ground balls back to the mound. 
Thn lirst double play came in thr fourth inning, and the srr­ond came in the righth with run­rwrs on first and third and the ltoyals trailing 2-1. 
Meadows rnlirf'd nine or the first 10 batters he faced. But .Jnt<,r Ind oil' the Yank1:ns fourth with a honwr to lef't-r.nnt1ir finld, and O'Neill boLmcc~<l a ball off thn top of the left-lidd bullpnn gal<' t'or a 2-0 lead with mm out in tho sixth. 
Jrrrnaine Dye went 2-l'or-4 and started Kansas City's rally with an BBi single in the eighth. r.utting Nnw York's lead to 2-1. 
White Sox 13, Rangers 1 
Frank Thomas hit his 1\L-lnad­ing 41st home run and Chir.ago spoiled ScoLl Sheldon's adven­ture' at all nine positions with n romp over Texas. 
Charles Johnson, Greg Norton and Magglio Ordonez also home­red for the AL Central-leading White Sox. Chicago scored seven runs in thr first inning. snnding Hick I felling to the shortPst start of' his career. 
The only bright spot for the Hangrrs -or maybo it was comic n,lief -came from Sheldon. who became just the third playrr ever to play all nine spots in one game. lie joined Bert Campaneris (Sept. 8, 1965) and Cesar Tovar (Sept. 22. 19681 as true utility players. 
Sheldon. normally a third 
baseman, cnterr.d the game in 
the fourth inning at catcher. Ry 
the eighth, he was pitching and 
he struck out the only batter he 
Exploring the Future of Business 
A seminar to celebrate the naming of the Mendoza College of Business Speakers: Dr. Cheryl Shavers, Under Secretary of Commerce for Technology DanWannenhoven, CEO, Network Appliance 
-Friday, September 8, 2000 1:30 -3:30 p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
Faculty, Staff and Students Welcome 
ND
. ::~·~iav al~::-..-Di,:;:.., Mendoza Collrje af Bu.tueaa 

faced. Jeff Liefer. 
While his Whitt> Sox teamates W<fff' knor.king in runs. Kip Wells (:i-7) was keeping thn Bangers in check. Making his first start since bring recalled l'rorn Triple­A Charlotte, Wells pitched onf' of his best gamPs ever. 
Wells gave up one unearn<'d run and four hits in seven innings. lie struck out four and walked univ one. 
Mih L,{mb drove in Texas' run with groundr.r in tho third. The Hangers had won three in a row. 
llelling gave up a whopping seven runs -two of them homers -before being yanked after getting just two outs. lie gave up five hits. walked threP and threw 41 pitchm,. 
With th()ir division lead down to 6 1/2 games, the White Sox head Lo Cleveland this WPek,~nd !'or a series with the ser.ond­place Indians. Chicago's offense seemed to be sputtering at a very inopportunr time as it man­aged just live runs in their lirst two games against Texas. 
But the Whitr Sox broke out of their mini-slump in a hurry Wednesday. At'trr Helling 
RETIREMENT INSURANCE 
walked Jose ValPnlin, Thomas honrnrnd to left. Ilb 41st horner ol' the season tied his carnrr high. set in 1993. thr year ho won his first MVP award. 
Thr smokf' from tho firpworks hadn't even clrarcd wlwn Ordonrz hornernd, giving tho White Sox a 3-0 !rad. 
Chicago thm1 loaded tho basns with a singh! by Carlos Leo and walks to Paul Konerko and Norton. and Chris Singleton hit a two-run single. 
After Johnson lined out. Hay Durham bit a two-run singlr to center. giving the White Sox a 7­0 run and chasing Ifolling. 
Angels 1, Tigers O 

Scott Schocneweis shut out Detroit on two singles for eight innings and Anaheim stoppnd a season-high six-game losing streak. defeating the Tlgcrs. 
Mo Vaughn drove in the tom, run with an HBl grounder in tho third inning. Troy Glaus tied an Angels record with thrne dou­
bles. 

Schoonewois and reliever Troy Percival combined to hand the Tigers their major loagur-lead­ing 12th shutout. 
Schocrwwl'is (7-71 struck out six and walked two. Percival pitchrd a hitless ninth !'or his 2Mh save. 
St11V1' Sparks ((i-3). snlertcd rarli<\r in thr. day as tlw /\I. Pitcher or tlw Mo;1th. had his fivo-garnr. winning strnak stoppPd. 
Sparks gave up sPvcn hits owr l'ight innings. llr. strurk out t.hrnc and walk!\d two. 
Kr.vin Slock1ir walkrd to start tho i\ngnls third, mowd up on Scott Spiezio's doublr. and scorPd on Vaughn's groundnr to 
second. 
Schonnnw,-1is madn lhat run stand up against thr Tigrrs. who had won thr.ir last l O garnns against lel't-handrd startors. 
Schonnrwr.is hrnr.znd through tho first six innings. facing tlw 
minimum I 8 battnrs. Brad 
Ausmus led olT thn third with a singlr., but was eras,id on a dou­blP play. 
Detroit loaded the basns with one out in thn s<'vr.nth on two walks and a single by Bobby lligginson. But Schonnnwnis strur.k out W11nclr.ll Mager. and got DPivi Cruz on an inning-<'11d­
ing grounder. 

MUTUAL FUNDS TRUST SERVICES I TUITION FINANCING 
Why is TIAA-CREF the #1 choice nationwide? 
The TIAA-CREF 

Advantage. 
Year in and year out, employees at education and research institutions have turned to TIAA-CREF. And for good reasons: 
• 
Easy diversification among arange of expertly managed funds 

• 
Asolid history of performance and exceptional personal service 

• 
Astrong commitment to low expenses 

• 
Plus, afull range of flexible retirement income options 


For decades, TIAA-CREF has helped professors and staff at over 9,000 campuses across the country invest for­and enjoy-successful retirements. 
Choosing your retirement plan provider is simple. Go with the leader: TIAA-CREF 



Ensuring the future 
1.800.842.2776
for those who shape it."' 
www.tiaa-cref.org 
For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them caref~ before you invest. • TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the CREF and TIM Real Estate vari;ible annuities. • Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements. • TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities. • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. 
• Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03 

:;tTHE TIAA-CREF "ADVANTAGE 
t 

t------------•'' 
Investment Expertise Low Expenses Customized Payment Options Expert Guidance 

Thursday, September 7, 2000 page 17 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


STUDENT UNION BOARD  
MOVIES  
Screen One: Mission Impossible 2 9/7. Thursday. 101 DeBartolo 1030PM. 9/8. Friday. 101 DeBartolo 0B00PM & 1030PM. 9/9. Saturday. 101 DeBartolo 0800PM & 1030PM. Screen Two: American Film lnstitute's Top Three Comedies (Some Like It Hot-Thursday, Tootsie-Friday, Dr. Strangelove-Saturday) 9/7. Thursday. 155 DeBartolo 1030PM. 9/8. Friday. 155 DeBartolo 0B00PM & 1030PM. 9/9. Saturday. 155 DeBartolo 0B00PM & 1030PM. ACOUSTIC CAFE 9/7. Thursday. LaFortune Huddle. 0900PM-1200AM. MSU TICKET LOTTERY (Each student may bring two IDs.) 9/13. Wednesday. LaFortune Ballroom 0400PM-0700PM. SECOND CITY 9/13. Wednesday. Washington Hall 0800PM.  Tickets: $2. Tickets: $2 Tickets: $5 (Students} $8 (Non-Students)  
MOVIES AT THE SNITE  
LOLITA 9/9.  Saturday.  Snite Museum  0900PM.  Tickets: $3  
MISCELLANEOUS/CAMPUS-WIDE  
FIRST FRIDAY  

9/8. Friday. LaFortune 1200-0130PM. VOLLEYBAl,.L: ADIDAS INVITATIONAL ND vs Nebraska 
9/8. Friday. JACC 0400PM. 
' 
ND vs UCLA ' 
' 
I
9/9. Saturday. JACC 0700PM. ' I 
,. . I
ND vs Michigan State I 
I
9/10. Sunday. JACC 0300PM. 
I 
.
I 
4
PEP RALLY I 
l
9/8. Friday. JACC 0630PM. 
l 
I 
WOMEN'S SOCCER I 9/8. Friday. Alumni Field 0730PM. 
FOOTBALL (like lou already didn't know this one!) 9/9. aturday. Football Stadium 0130PM. 
' 
4 
-: l 
page 18 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 7, 2000 
Come visit Jesus in Eucharistic Adoration. He too has 
been hungry, weary, lost, and lonely. He waits for you. 
"Each moment that you spend with Jesus will deepen your union with Him and make your soul 
everlastingly more glorious and beautiful in Heaven, and will help bring about an everlasting 
peace on earth. When you look at the crucifix, you understand how much Jesus loved you. 
When you look at the Sacred Host, you understand how much Jesus loves you now." 
Mother Teresa 

"The Holy Eucharist contains the whole spiritual treasure of the Church, that is, Christ 
.... himself... He who is the Living Bread, whose flesh, vivified by the Holy Spirit and vivifying, gives life to men." Vatican Council II 
"Sooner would heaven and earth turn to nothingness than would My Mercy not embrace a 
trusting soul. Let no soul fear to draw near to Me, even though their sins be as scarlet." 
Jesus to St. Maria Faustina 
Monday 1 1 :30pm -Tuesday 10:45pm, St. Paul Chapel, Fisher Hall Friday 12:00 -5:00pm, Lady Chapel, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
There is no special format, you can pray, read, write in a journal, or just sit silently. This is your special time each week to spend with Jesus, truly present in the Blessed Sacrament. For more information, or to sign up for a timeslot, please contact Mary Tarsha 4x2469 (tarsha.1@nd.edu) or Lisa Demidovich 4x0847 (ldemidov@nd.edu). 
Areyou hungry? 
Do not labor for the food which perishes, but for 
the food which endures to eternal life, which the 
Son ofman will give to you. . . I am the bread of 
life, he who comes to me shall not hunger. Jn 6: 21. Js 
Areyou weary? 
Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, 
and I willgiveyou rest. Take my yoke upon you, 
and learn from me; for I am gentle and lowly in 
heart, and you will find rest for your souls. Mt 11:28-9 
Areyou lost? 
I am the way, and the truth, and the life; no one 
comes to the Father, but by me. 
Jn 14= 6 
Areyou lonely? I will not leave you desolate; I will come to you..... 
1_ 
' Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be
I 
I 

afraid. 1n 14= rn. 21 

Thursday, September 7, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
#22 NOTRE DAME #4NEBRASKA 
Friday, 4:00 pm * Joyce Center 
Pack the Joyce Center for the first Notre Dame­Nebraska upsetofthe weekend! 
f · ' SUB
First 200 students receive a B ,~p,e~PARTYI One dorm will win a Papa John s Pl 
Sat. #22NOTRE DAME vs. #3UCLA 7:00 pm Sun. #22NOTRE DAME vs. #76Michigan St. 3:00 pm 
* First 500 receive a free t-shirt! Win Chicago Bears tickets! Chance to win a Meijer shopping spree and gift certificate! 


Fri. #2 NOTRE DAME vs. #3 Santa Clara 7:30 ptn 
* First 500 fans receive a free mini soccer ball! ­Sun. #2 NOTRE DAME vs. #7 Stanford 1 :00 pm 
* First 150 students with ID receive free admission to ~, Friday & Saturday's gaines * o,,
a~@as 

-

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 7, 2000 
KEVIN DALUM/The Observer Senior captain Kelly Lindsey will lead No. 4 Notre Dame in critical games this weekend against No. 2 Santa Clara and No. 10 Stanford. 

Buy /Sell/Trade 
Nebraska Wanted 
hursday, September 7
Preferred Tickets 

5:00 p.m. 
5:45 p.m.
234-5650

' 
Lindsey 
continued from page 24 
Bronr,o coach Jerry Smith 
tossed out a lot of "the best 
toum didn'l win today" lines 
and belly-ached about yet 

anotlrnr Santa Clara sPmif'inal 
loss throughout his pn~ss con­
forence after the gamo. 

"Wo did not get a lot of respect last year in the Final Four period from any of' th" teams," Lindsey said. "So it will be a good chance for us to stAp back into the limelight and (Hov11 ourselves as a team." 
Although Santa Clara dropped a game to unranked Washington earliP.r this week. Lindsev has no doubt that the Bronc11s will still pose a stiff· test. 

"Everyone knows that they are a really good team and anyone can get knocked off ­especially early in tlw season." she said. "That loss could do more harm than help because they'll probably be 11rod up and rnady to go when th()y conrn in here Friday night." 
The Irish know all about bouncing back from a tough early loss. Last year they dropped their sixth game of' the year to Soutlu~rn Methodist 
before rebounding to win sevcn-straight. 
While tho Irish are used to playing an extremely tough team early in the snason. f'ac:­ing No. 10 Stanford on Sunday makes the weekend twico as difTir.ult. Thr Irish also dd"nat­od the Cardinal 1-0 in tho snc.­ond round ot' tlrn NCJ\.A tourna­ment last !'all. 
So with two or thn top IO trams in tlw country coming to town this wnehnd, you'll havn to forgive Lindsey for skipping the hot sun and tailgating of' tlrn l'ootball ganw for lwr couch in Farley. 
Plus, boating Nebraska is old hat t'or Lindsey. She and her teammates have nliminated lhn 'lluskers from the NCAA tour­nanrnnt three-straight years. Last year her suddcn-dc\ath penalty kick aft()r !"our ovnr­timcs sent the Irish to San Jose for tlw l'inal four whilci tlrn 'lluskers spPnt l)()cnmbnr in Lincoln. 
So what advice docs this provon 'I luskor killor have for 
Bob Davic1's boys'? "Jlow to brat Nebraska'.' flit 'om hard," she said. 
The uiews e:xprPssr'd in this column are those r~{ the aulhor and not necessarily those rf The Obser/Jer. 
Happy Birthday, Tara 
Love, Mom,Dad, Jim, &Kerry 

Pachanga '00, First Year Students, LaFortune Student Center Ballroom Pachanga '00, Upperclassmen, LaFortune Student Center Ballroom 
.. 
8:30 p.m.-10:30 p.m. Open Rec Lacrosse, Court 1, RSRC
' I 
8:30 p.m.-Midnight NO Express Billiards games open, LaFortune Student Center 
9:00 p.m. Acoustic Cafe, LaFortune Student Center Huddle 
10:30 p.m. SUB Movies, "Mission Impossible 2·, DeBartolo 101* and'Some Like It Hor, DeBartolo 155* 
Friday, September 8 
4:00 p.m. Adidas lnvttational Women's Volleyball Tournament: ND vs. Nebraska, Joyce Center 
5:00 p.m. Women's Soccer, Keybank Classic, Connecticut vs. Stanford, Alumni Field 
6:30 p.m. Football Pep Rally, Notre Dame Stadium 
7:00 p.m.-10:00 p.m. Open Rec Badminton, Court 2, RSRC 
7:30 p.m. 
8:00 p.m. 
8:30 p.m.-Midnight 
9:00 p.m. 
10:00 p.m. 
10:30 p.m.
-Saturday, September 9 
4:30 p.m. 
7:00 p.m. 
8:00 p.m. 
9:00 p.m. 
10:30 p.m. 
Women's Soccer, Keybank Classic, ND vs. Santa Clara,.Alumni Field SUB Movies, "Mission Impossible 2', DeBartolo 101* and 'Tootsie', DeBartolo 155* ND Express Billiards games open, LaFortune Student Center Cinema at the Snlte, 'Lolffa', Snlte Museum* Flipside 80's dance, Lafortune Student Center Ballroom* SUB Movies, •Mission Impossible 2·, DeBartolo 101* and•rootsie', DeBartolo 155* 
Adidas lnv~ational, Women's Volleyball: MSU vs. Nebraska, Joyce Center Adidas Invitational, Women's Volleyball: ND vs. UClA, Joyce Center SUB Movies, 'Mission Impossible 2•, DeBartolo 101* and •or. Strangelove·, DeBartolo 155• Cinema at the Snite, 'Lolffa", Snite Museum* SUB Movies, 'Mission Impossible 2', DeBartolo 101* and'Dr. Strangefove', DeBartolo 155' 
*Denotes admission charge for ND/SMC students 
Plll(Wlll are nbJect to change without notice. 
For up lo d&le 1.ofonnadon, clleci out the ND calendar, Toilay @ND at www.ad.edu or call SIDdent Acdv!Ues at 631-7308. To &ik! an mntto further calendan, plew send Ille details about the actltl!J Ill 1to@nd.edu. Thll calendar la compiled by Ille ODlnrslt, of Notre Dame Student klltlttes Office. 
Thursday, Seprember7, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

Receiver 
conti111Jed from page 24 
Bishop Luers won the Indiana Class 2A title. Witherspoon transf'errcd to Bishop Luers a.fter spending his freshman and sophomore year at Fort Wayne South Side High School. 
He was raLed the 25th best prospect in the nation by recruiting analyst Tom Lemming and placed fourth in thP Indiana Mr. Pootball bal­loting. 
..________________ especiallv here at Notre Dame 
Lemming told The Observer last spring, "He's probably going to be their go-to guy in the nexL couple of years." 
Senior flanker Joey Getherall, who sprained his right knee and suffered a groin injury as a freshman, was surprised with 
because it's a real tough place 
academic-wise and athletic­
wise. 

"But especially being from Fon Wayne I thought he 
___.;;.;;,;;..;;.;...;.;:;., would know what it would be 
like. I think he knew it would

ILADES 
Instituto Latinoaniericano de Doctrina y Es.tudios Sodales 
Informational Meeting: 
WHO can apply7
Thursday., September 7 
7pm CSC Students applying to partici­pate in the Santiago, Chile program 
What is !lades? 
.L-he Hades Seminar enables students studying abroad in Chile to examine issues of poverty, evelopment, social justice, liberation theology, and the global economy from a variety of ifferent disciplines and perspectives. 
When is Ilades offered? ~ 
The Hades Seminar is only offered during the spring semester 
Where can you find out mar~ about Ilades? 
Contact Colleen Knight, Acting Director of Special Projects at the Center for Social Concerns (nexr to Hesburgh Library) 631-3357 

LaFortune Student Center Room 312 
Friday: Noon -12:45 P.M. 


Contact: 1-7970 for details 
Witherspoon's decision. 
"I knew he was going through rough times but I thought he was going to stay," Getherall said. "I went through a real rough time [as a freshman I and I know all the freshmen right now are going through rough times, 
be tough but who knows what he was going through? Maybe he had difficulties but I have no idea. I don't want to specu­late anything. I don't even think the whole team knows about it. Coach [Davie] hasn't really said anything." 
Witherspoon is the fourth Irish player since May to leave the program. 
Receiver Jamaar Taylor has enrolled at Texas A&M, defensive back Albert Poree has enrolled at Georgia Tech and offensive lineman Neal Ambron left school and may not play football again . 
eCollegefoofu~l.com 
The Marketplace 
~-' 
AN{)··~-----_ 

Faber Consulting is 
seeking the brightest minds 
...to help transform our clients' data assets into valuable Business Intelligence. 
Business Intelligence will separate the winners from the losers in the coming decade.That's why Faber is looking for self-motivated,intelligent people with acomputer studies background to contribute to our explosive growth and become our next ~neration ofconsultants. 
We offer achallenging work environment with exceptional opportunities for training and career advancement. And every "Faberite" receives an equity stake in our business. 
Use Go IRISH to $ign up immediately for an interview-the schedule fills quickly. We're interviewing Monday, October 2nd at the Career Center. Or attend our information session on Sunday,October 1st from 7-8 p.m.1n Foster, Room 306 at the Lafortune Student Center. Refreshments will be served. 
We are an Equal OpportunityEmployer 
Defense 
continued from page 24 
Mattison and the Iri-;h coaching staff have been stressing the importance of tfawless execution to the players. 
"Nebraska has an offensive scheme that will take advantage of anyone thaL's not prepared," said Mattison. "If you're doing something you shouldn't be doing, they will expose you." 
With quarterback Eric Crouch at the helm. Nebraska trampled San Jose State in il'> season open­er 49-13. The 'Huskers gained 596 offensive yards, scored on their first four possessions and did not punt until the fourth quarter. 
"Obviously. they can get rolling on you," said Irish head coach Bob Davie. "We're not going to be intimidated. We respect them and we know how good they are. We played Tennessee and Tennessee beat us pretty good and they beat Tennessee. I think we are better than we were then." 
Irons is ready to lead his defen­sive corps against the Husker uffense. but his brother might have a tougher time picking sides. 
"I actually think he might be split," said Irons. ''But I'll make sure I find out who he's rooting for before the game starts." 
There is no question which side Grant Iron's heart will be on. 
DE SALSA! 
Venga tod.os los Jueves de las 8:00 pm disfru. tar de la major mun de Salsa, Bachata, Cumbia, Latin Pop. Presente el cupon obgeta un 50% d.esc. en su entrada. Valido 
1717 Lincoln Eas South Bend, IN 

-
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thusday, September 7, 2000 

I I -·
i 
i' 
' i. I 
~ ~ 
~ 
r 
I 
-
. 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish drop home opener to No. 21 Braves, 3-1 
dominatP thP majority of thl' ing the gap to 2-I 
. Notre Dame 

remaind1'r of tlrn l'irst hall'. Cnl'ortunatP!y, that was alloutshoots Bradley Frnsllrnan Chad Hilnv and the ol'fons~, tho Irish 1:oulcl but cannot convert sophornorf' .Justin Hatclif'f'n muster. [)pspitc 16 second c a r h w ,~ r P a b I P to g Pl t w o half shots -including l'our by shots b1-l'or<' th<! hall' Pndr.cl. Hiley -the Irish n1wnr really
By NOAH AMSTAIHER 

11 owevPr. 13 rad IPy goalk1•Pprr snomed dose Lo tying thn
Sp<>ris Wri«r 

Adam (;ross. playing behind a ganw. strong dPf'PnsP. was ablP to Bradley sr.alr.d thf' gamP at
Wht>n a t1•am ('omplPLf'ly 

k1'ep th,~ Irish olT lhA score­the 81:11 mark. i\lfor a shot
dominalr>s an opponnnt in 
board. by Irish sophomorn Andn~as 
SPP1lli11gly PVl'l)' raLPgory. tllf' 
NotrP I>arnc allowed Forstr'r was blockPd,,,nd rr.sult is usually a victo­
Bra.dlPV a srico,Hl scoring Bradley's ,Justin Arabad,iirl' ry. opportt;nity lat<) in th<• first was able to brf'ak awav from 
· llnf11rtu1rnt<'lv for tlw Irish 

hall'. as Clinton was able to the Irish defonsn and t,~ke the 
111 I' n • s so r. c· P ;. tf• a m . th is 
ta.kl' an oprn shot in thr box. ball downf'ield toward thr.
wasn't tlw cas,• Wt>dnr.s<lay 
Tait dovP lo thr ground Lo Irish goal. In the final third ol'night as limy lost its homn 
makr the save, Tait madn the the l'idd. he found
op<'nnr 3-l lO thn 2 lsl-rnnkl'd initial savr. but Glinlon MAhndoskoui open for his
BravPs ol' Brac.llPV. 
pounced on tho r1\bound for a second goal of tho season.
DnspilP put.ling up 25 shots 

goal. Following two shutout vic­
Lo mnrcly suvr.n by lhr. 
"llP came through from my tories last weekend, Apple
Brav1!S, the Irish W<HP only 

right. Strn-r. Maio slowrd him was less than pleased about
abf P lo ('{JllVPrt onP pPnalty down to the point whcrr. I his team·s d1-1f'ensivc play.
kirk into a goal. 
could come and I tackled "Tonight our dol'ensive play
111:ad coach Chris /\pp!,~ foll 

him," Ta.it said. "When l was haphazard. Sometimes itLhal the team's youth showed 
d<'l'l1~cted the ball it kind of' was there, sometimes it was
tonight. 

went to my left. I tried Lo get not." said Apple, "There's no
''It's frustrating to own thr. 

bad and IGlintonl lituallv reason to give a team thrne
ba 11 . to o w n t h P g a nm . to ERNESTO LACAYO/The Observer 
just kicked mr in thr bark ,if counter-attacks likr. that andhav!' 25 shots to thPir sPvcn. my hr.ad. trampled me do,vn give up three goals. The sec­Freshman forward Devon Prescod dribbles past a Bradley 
to havl' snvnn rorn1'r kirks to 
defender in Notre Dame's 3-1 loss Wednesday.
o n t h.~ g ro ll n d a n d p u t it ond half they had one shot.
Uwir thron. and ,·onw out rrn 
away. the one that went in. That
th1• losing 1ind." ,\ppli' said. 
Tait !'ell that the physical was it."
"A lot of our 
play was an Apple also believed theyouth and 
important offense needs to work morn
iTl() X p!! ril' nC() 
"We were the better 
aspect of on shot selection, despite pro­
showf'd to­
team. but better teams the game. ducing almost four times as
night. We 
"Thn first many shots as Bradley.
wnrP tlw bPl-don't always win when 
20 or 25 "I think we nerd to crnatn1<' r warn. but they don't play 
minutes of more dangerous chances.
bl'ttPr t1•ams 
C.OLLIGI MIGHT
inlelligentl!J." thn gamo morn chances from 12 yards
don't always 
was somr. of on in rather than 25 yards
win wh1•n 
MONDAYS & THURSDAYS
the fastf'st and out," Apple said. "So,
thPy don't Chris Apple 
soccer I've we'll ·work on that a little bit. 
9 PM -12 MIDNIGHT
play int1\lli­
Irish head coach playPd in a we'll work on keeping the 
gP11 tly." 
UMLIMITID BC>-WLING
long time," ball from the middlr. third toTlw Bntv1•s Tail said. the final third of the field." 
$5 PER PEr';SON
b11gan Lim s<'oring early ­"i\s thP game went on. WP. Thn team looks to rPgroup
.iusl thrnP minuu1s and Sl'Vtin 
SHOES EXTRA
w11r1• gelling more and more this weekend as it travels 
s Pc tllHl s i11 to th,~ ga nH'. 
intPns,~ and along with that east for the Big East 
Beacon Bowl -4210 Lincolnway W, South Bend
llrad/Pv's llamid ,'\lf!hrnios­
comes physical Pmirgy. Conference opennr against
ko u P i cl rov ,, t lw ba 11 down ­
As tlw second half wf'nt on, Boston College at 1 p.m. on 
234 -4167
f'iPld bl'l'orP finding a flying 
WP got morr and moni anx­Saturday.
Cavin c;linton opPn on the ious, and thP tacklns were
right side. Clinton rrH'Piv1!d 
lnknn a bit morP personally."
tlw pass on th<' right sidP. and 
The Irish ranrn out aggrns­shot llw ball past Irish goal­sivnlv in thn second half' as
k cH'pP r Creg Tait !'or th1! 
WPII: taking 15 shots to onlyganw's first scorP. 
orw for tlw Braves.
"WI' knPw that tlrnir two 

At 76:05, senior Griffin
l'orw a rd s w1~ r P going lo b1• 
lloward was foulccl in the
good." said Tait. "I just don't pc:nalty box following a hPad­
know if' WP arrommodatf'd for Pr shot by l'rPshman Justin
lhPir quirkn«'ss and spPnd 

¦ 
¦
Dettf'r and awarded a penalty
right Hway. For tlwrn ft was 
shot. Howard put tlrn ball
n!ally tlu· t\.VO man show up past Gross for his second goal 
New Meetings for
front." 
in tlrn last three games. clos-
ThP Irish rPgroupPcl to 

Students and Young Adults. 

312 Lafortune Student Center ·Mondays 7PM 




Thursday, September 7, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TYLER

TOM KEELEY THINGS COULD BE WORSE -·
FOURTH AND INCHES 
WHATELY 





Fox TROT 
ToOA'l''S 'Tlff F1RST DAY How MARCUS AND EXCITIN6. t GET To RUN "THE FILM 
PRoJECToR AT SCHOOL. 
WE'VE GoT OUR CLASSRooM  
WIRED FRoNT To BACK  !  JUST WlSH  
WITH EVERY SPEAJ<ER AND  I l<NEW WHAT  
AMP WE COULD F1Nt>.  I  MOVIE WE'RE  
HATE To BRAG, BUT I  SEEING.  
TH1r-.K WE MA'f HAVE PuT  
To6ETHER 11-IE MoST PoWER­ 
FuL SVRRooNO SouND S'fS"IEM  
ON EARTH.,,-;:=. 
" 
\'­ ,.  ~  

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 Common street ss "Lighten upt" name
1 Side of a gem sa Gets on in 35 "Dumb" girl of years
e "Planet of the 
ff 
old comics 59 Norse war god 36 Designer Klein &0 Patronize, as a
10 Family pillar 37 Y chromosome restaurant 14 Overflowing 
carriers 61 Wrongful act 15 Symbol of 
38 Dentist's &2 Dalmatian docs goodness 
request 

63 "_ Daughter" 16 Manipulative 39 Noon, in France (1970 film) sort 
40 Is bedridden 17 "lighten up!" 41 Work, as dough DOWN 1e Michelin product 42 Nervously 1 There's no 
excited changing it

20 Ophthalmolo­gist's study 44 Bank robberies 2 "Shoo!" 21 Around 45 Suit to 3 Order tor a party caterer
48 Cafe au 4 Reverse of 

22 Beer parties 47 Walk a beat24 Richly decorate WNW 
so Lancelot and 

25 Gummed flap s Dangerous
others place for skating 

26 Edit, as film 
s1 "This fine 
a Leading

29 Nuances how-do-you-do!" 
7 Old TV host 

33 Give up 54 New York canal 
Jack a Chicago trains 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 
D J J A z z y J E 10 Y O U N E E D E D -=-t-~.,.. 11 N O D 12 

1s 
-=+--+--1 13 
23 
-,,-+.,.,+....+,-,+,,e-i 24 

"""'"''"'"'"'-,,.+e-+,,,. •--=~-r.-:::r.::r.::-r.::-t-:-r.:-r.:-1 25 
26 
n 
8,,;,+*:-i•..-...-~.j..:;;.~-1-,;,.1 

A A P 2a E V E T A K E A S I E S T A TEX AM AND ACROSS Tofu makings 
"lighten up!" Sale words Lively Greek war god 
Prefix with 
conferencing Boy "Lighten up!" 
Balks, as a horse 
Turbaned sage Start a closeup shot Singer/ photographer McCartney 

BILL AMEND 
(ooF) I 
"A \-11ST0RY SCROUNGED OF GRAIN.'' UP ANoTHER SVBWooFER. 
See the guy dancing in the cage, on't be that guy. 

Puzzle by Margaret Watson 
29 TV's _ Jessy Raphael ao Slangy denials 
31 Super 
32 Former Vegas hotel 
34 Pale yellow 
37 "Congratula­tions!" 41 Target of a good, swift kick 43 "Who am say?" 44 Spy Mata_ 
46 Property claims s2 Beautiful 47 Kind of moss swimmer 
48 Jason's ship 53 Picnic spoilers 
49 Ballpark level 56 Poem of praise 
57 Word repeated 50 Pique before "in" and 51 Least bit "out' 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Carol Burnett, Koo Stark, Bobby Rydell, Gary Wright 
Happy Birthday: Pace yourself or you'll be worn out before the year is half over. You need to learn to have some fun. Your focus has been too material oriented, and it's time you started to concentrate on your loved ones and the more personal aspects of life. You will learn a lot if you just give into the changes going on around you and stop trying to force issues. Your numbers: 4, 7, 13, 20, 33, 36 
ARIES (March 21-April 1?): You will be quick-witted and charming, which will help you gain popularity at work. Friends and relatives will give you good advice. Romance will be exciting and spontaneous. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Don't be too quick to invest in some­thing just because someone you trust is investing. Overspending will lead to all sorts of problems in the future. Excessive behavior will result in poor health. 00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't evade issues or twist the truth. You won't get away with it. [f you're hon­est, you stand a better chance of con­vincing your mate that you still love him or her and that you're willing to bend. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't push your luck with superiors or authority figures. Secret affairs will eventually backfire on you. You may not get your facts straight, so double­check before you make decisions. 
0000 

LEO Quly 23-Aug. Z2): Be yourself and you'll be surprised how many love interests you will entice. You can step into the limelight if you want to. Favors will be granted if 
EUGENIA LAST 
youask.000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Emo­
tions will flare up among family 
members. Take one step at a time and 
don't pick sides. Your practical out­
look will win out. Get sound advice 
from someone you respect and trust. 
000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You need to look at your situation from a different perspective. Sit down with someone you know well and find out how he or she would deal with the circumstances you're facing. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can prosper if you are smart with your money. Clear up any pressing legal matters or personal papers that need to be renewed. The time to make changes is now. 0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
Keep your partner busy and you will avoid the second degree. Overindul­gence will result in putting on the pounds. Discipline will be required, 
00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Make changes around the house that you've been talking about. It will make a difference to everyone who lives with you. You can save some cash if you get everyone to pitch in and help. 00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Secret affairs or hidden matters may be revealed. Be careful whom you confide in. Social activities that involve children will help bring your family closer together. 000 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You .. may be taken advantage of. Don't be too quick to help someone who is telling you "poor me" stories. You're only hearing one side of the situation, and you can bet it's not accurate. 
000 

Birthday Baby: You were born with class and an awareness of what is good and what isn't. You have a great outlook, a good mind and will strive through­out life to acquire the finer things in life. You have qualities others will admire and look up to. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 1999 Universal Press Syndicate 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
----~--------------------------------------------------------------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name 

Address 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 


Sock it to 'em 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team had lrouble staving offNo. 2 I Bradley, losing 3-1 Wednesday.

PORTS 
page 22 

O
THE page 24 BSERVER 

FOOTBALL 

Witherspoon drops out of school 
By TIM CASEY As•ist.wr Spon.s hliwr 
Jovan Witherspoon, a fresh­man wid,~ rnct>iver has lel"t Notre Danw and docs nol plan on rnturning in tlw future. 
'"llo had becrn thinking aboul llPavingl for awhile." said Hoosr.v<1lt Barnf's. Withnrspoon's fathPr Wed­1rnsday night. "It startod when prPsoason camp startr,d I think Notn~ Danw is an cxcel­1n n t program and I t.hink th11y'll bn in a BCS bowl g-amo th is y (' ,l 1" b ll t I j u s t cl id fl • l think .Jovan fit." 
Barnt•s would not comnwnt on wlrnrn his son would trans­f'or. Hepnat<'d phorrn calls to W i l Im rs poo n wr re not rc1tur1wd. 
Mall Warnr.r. Wither­spoon's roommate at Fislwr llall. said Witherspoon and his fathPr "pal'kPd evPrything up" and left r.ampus on th" departure after prar.tice Tuesday afternoon b,~lween on Wednesday. Davie said noon and 1 p.m. Barnes contacted him Friday 

··1 wasn't surprised he was night and asked tho fourth­leaving bncauso I guess he year head coach not to play had kind of talked about it. a Witherspoon in the m1xt aft1:r­little bit before." Warner said. noon's Texas A&M game. 
"I! 11  had  "We  were  
somn  con- going to play  
versations ovr,r the phone with people. Hut  "It was not necessarily a shock but a disappoint­ment [that he left!  him in the football g a me , Davie said.  
he  didn't  because he was going to  ''I'm s·ad  to  
talk about it with m1~."  be a heck ofa player."  see leave.  him I  
Warner  think he's  a  
said he had  Urban Meyer  bright,  
"ideas"  receivers coach  y  o u  n  g  
wht~rc  prospect.  
Witherspoon  Our coach­ 

would bn transferring but ing staff was extremely excit­Wither-spoon did not confirm ed about him. We're disap­his next sr,hool. pointed that he left but I cer­
"lip hadn't made up his tainly wish him and his father mind. I don't think. at that well wherever he ends up." point in time," Warner said. Witherspoon has struggled 
Coach Bob Davie announced with back pain since the sum­
mer but was expected to be a contributor on offense this fall. The 6-foot-4. 205 pounder from Fort Wayne attended several Notrn Dame practices last spring while a senior at Bishop Luers lligh School and spent most of the summer in South Bend, preparing for the season. 
"lie was nflver full speed when he was here and I think that led to his frustration." said rr.cflivers coach Urban Meyer alluding to Witherspoon's back pain. "It was not necessarily a shock but a disappointmnnt [that he left) because he was a good kid and I think he's going to be a heck of a player. I thought hr. was treated right. Everybody had huge expecta­tions for him." 
Witherspoon caught (19 passes for 1 .140 yards and 11 touchdowns last season as 
see RECEIVER/ page 21 
Defense irons out wrinkles for Nebraska 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sports Editor 

Grnnl Irons knows Nt>braska football -il runs in l1is family. 
HPfi,n\ coming to Notrn Darn<'. the senior c.aptain usPd to cl10.Pr for tlrn CornhuskPrs ,1vpry Saturday. And onn play«-r in particular was his favoritn -his brothc\r (;prald, a nose guard for thP Huskers in Lim rntrly '90s. 
"I w,L'-actually a rm1lly big Nebra-;ka fon," said Irons. "I used lo watch them all tlw tirn11." 
But whPn Nnbraska conrns to town Saturday. thorP will be no qtwstion where the senior defcn­siw 1md's loyalties tin. 
I !is family might havn Nobra-;ka in iL'i blood, but Irons' heart ble,\ds blun and gold. And he is rrady lo show it on the field. 
"Wn'w bP<'n focused all wnPk in practice." said Irons. "It's no srcrd that NPbr;L-;ka is an unbdiev­ablc• team and to bt' pffoctivn WP nerd to play well w; a t11am." 
As much hyp,~ as tlrnre is surrounding Notrn Darnt1's match-up with top-rankt\d 1\Jpbra.ska, Irons knows th!' dr,f'1•ns1' needs to focus on fundamentals. 
"Wp'rn making irnprovcmenL-; in practicn since l,L'il Wl'Pk. but ,V<'n' not whnr<' w11 nPPd to bP yot," lw said. "\\'11 nPPd to work on all arnas of our ganw, gPl back to funclanmnlals and make sun• wr haw Pwrvthing covNPd." 
Irons and thf' dPf(•nsP will havt' tlwir work cut out for Llwm whrn Lhr 'I luskr,r olfonsn takPs th1\ !kid at Notn• Damr Stadium. Thr, Irish limited the Tnxus A&M 1111i•nst> to just 2!i5 yards in their 24-10 s1~ason-opPning win. but falterPd with thrPe pass interli1n\nce calls and kny mist.ackles. 
"Wp"vc had our eyes set on Nnbra.-;ka all along." said Irish dd°Pnsiw coordinator Greg Mattison. 
.... "We'r11 in a position lo stop up to the challenge NPbr,t-;ka posHs. It's an intnnsf' gamr, in terms of the playPrs wanting to do well. They'vo thought a lot about it and thry'II bt> rPady to play." 
see DEFENSE/page 21 

Bigger 
than the 
'Huskers 

l{abid football fans. prepart~ 
to bo shocknd ... 
Kelly Lindscy will NOT bt1 

attending lhn Nebraska ganw 
this Saturdav. 
Shr. will. . 

hovvnver. ------­bn watch­ing thn ganrn on hor televi­sion from lrnr Farlfly dorm room. 
"Inex­
cusable!" 
you can 
hear tlrn 
alumni 
shouting. 
"It's thP 
gamn of' 
the year and slrn won't cvon 
be thr.re!" 

But Lindsey will be at thP game of thP yrar. Wait makP that ganrnS of tlrn yPar. TIH' senior captain or thn womr.n's soccer team -and heart and soul of the Irish dnfonsn ­will not be at thn football game Saturday bPcausn shP has bigger concrrns this week1\nd. 
Thn No. 2-ranknd Santa Clara Broncos visit Fridav night and just two days 1(1tnr the No. 4 Irish must battln tlrn 10th-ranked Stanford Cardinal on Sunday after­noon. 
And if tlrn w1ieknnd couldn't get any tougher. tlrn Irish knocked both tr,ams out of tlw NCAA tournamrnt last year. 
Lindsry. howevrr. just laughs at thn challnnges tlw Irish far,e this wrPkend. 

"It's .goi~g to be_,tll}h)i more fun. shn said. Its going to bn nxciting. W11 am going to be pumpr.d tlrn wholr. wr,ekt1nd. It will delinitnly bn tough to play two top-I 0 teams back to bat:k but it's something we can handle esprcially early in tlrn sna­son." 
ThP Friday night match-up against Santa Clara will bn a rematch of' the snm if'inals of' thn 1999 NCAA Collngn Cup which the Irish won 1-0. Thn Irish knockt1d off tlw l'ormnrlv undnfcatcd Broncos thanks tii a goal by thr.n-froshman Ali Lovrlacr who cam11 off thP bench to scorn the biggnst goal of' hor short Irish carnPr. 
But defeating tho Broncos wasn't enough to cam thn Irish Santa Clara's respect. 

see LINDSEY/page20 

vs. Santa Clara Cross Country Friday, 7:30 p.m. at Valparaiso Inv. Saturday, IO a.m. at Boston College 
SPORTS 
Saturday, l p.m.
ATA 
vs. Nebraska

Volleyball Sarurday, 1 :30 p.m. 
vs. Nebraska 
Friday, 4 p.m.
GLANCE 






