
Judd's new movie ... a dud 
Libyans plead innocent 
Ashley Judd's new movie "Eye ofthe 
Thursday

The two Libyans blamed for the bombing on Pan 
Beholder" gets criticized for being too shallow, 
Am Flight 103 in 1988 pleaded innocent 
and her role as a serial killer is not believable. 
Wednesday. 
FEBRUARY 3,
Scene . page 14 

WorldNation . page 5 
2000 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIII NO. 75 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
SMC run-off ends in first ever tie, re-elections on Friday 
By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
Nt:w.s Wr!tt:r 
The rur.c for student body president will contimrn at Saint Mary's. 
For the l'irsl time in the Collegt>'s history. votes in the run-off P.IP.ction between the tick­ets of Emilv Koelsch and Hachele Rodartt> and Chrisc;ie H(•nner and Mic.hellc: Nagle resulted in a tie. 
In Wednesday's run-off elec­tion. an equal number of votes were cast. Both tickets received 49 percent of' the votes. Two per­cent of th1i votes were absten­tions. A winning ticket rn~eded to gain 50 percent plus one votes to earn the position. 
The next elections will take place friday in the dining hall from 7 a.m. -9 a.m., noon -2 
p.m.. and 5 p.m. -7 p.m. 
A higher turnout showed up al the polls for tht' run-off com­pared to Monday's dection. which diminated two of tlw four original tickP.ts. Thirty-nine per­cent of the student body voted Wednesday, up from 36 percent Monday. 
The candidates were pleased with the turnout and encouraged pPople to return to the polls on Priday. 
"We are just hoping that every­one can come together one more time and vote." said Renner. 
Koelsch's sentiments were sim­
"This is completely unprece­dented. It's ridiculous that this has happened," Heffernan said. "These tickets are both very qualified. We were joking early that there would be a dead tie, but never thought it would hap­pen." 
Both tickets will be given another allotment to use for cam­

ilar. 
"We've had a very good turnout," she said. "I hope this brings out more people on Friday. Let's get this finished and [get] a presi­dent elected." 
Two years 
"We were joking early that there would be a dead tie, but never thought it would happen. " 
Bridget Heffernan interim elections commissioner 
p a i g n in g before Fridav's elertions. · 
Neither tick­et is willing to give up the race. 
"We are still determined and still moti­vated," said Nagle. "We believe in each 
ago, when Sarah Seifert and other and we hope everyone else Nancy Midden ran on a ticket can believe in us too." together, the primary election Koelsch said they are going to was won by -one vote. That is the give everyone a break today. dosest tickets have ever come to "It's been so ovP-rwhelming for lying, according to interim elec­everyone," she said. "On Friday, tions commissioner Bridget we 're just going to remind every­Heffernan. one to vote again." 

----~====================================================================================================================-­



Grow'ing in faith through service 
Holy Cross Associates provide program for year-long service 
By LAURA SELLINGER 
News Writer 
Eye-opening. Thought-provoking. A truly spiri­tual experience. 
These are among the terms used to describe Holy Cross Associates, a post-graduate service program sponsored by the Congregation of the Holy Cross at sites throughout the United States and in Chile. 
Holy Cross Associates offer participants the chance to incorporate their Christian faith through community living, prayer and a simple lifestyle of service to the poor. 
"The goal of the program is to expose people to service, and be among those who have marginal­ized options in life. Through the experience, par­ticipants not only discover some of their own gifts but are also motivated to continue living an inten­tional life of serving others in the context of faith," said John Pinter. director of Holy Cross 
Associates. 
B11gun in 1978, the program includes one-year domestic service projects and two-year interna­tional programs. Current sites include Phoenix; Colorado Springs, Colo.; Brockton, Mass.; Portland, Ore.; Wilkes-Barre, Pa.; and Santiago and Pocuro, both in Chile. 
Throughout the years, associates have been involved in education, homeless services, domes­tic violence services, HIV/AIDS services, family programs and parish ministry. Participants not only assist others, but are also deeply touched by their experiences. 
see SERVICE/page 4 



ND: Annan 
perfect fit for 2000 message 
By MARIBEL MOREY 
News Writer 
When Notre Dame began its search for a commencement speaker for this year, the University wanted an individual who embodies Christianity's millennial theme of peace and the global 
family. 
It found these quali­ties in United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan. 
"He is the best to rep­resent this theme,"said Louis Nanni, executive assistant to the 

University president. Annan Dennis Brown, associate director of public relations agreed. 
"Kofi Annan is a natural fit because he tits the international community,"hc said. 
Selecting a speaker is "an ongoing process because of the difficulty in schedul­ing people." 
Discussion begins a year in advance and the invitation letter is sent out in the begin­ning of the academic year. Annan was the first person Notre Dame contacted to be this year's commencement speaker. 
"The names of possible speakers and hon­orees are submitted from any number of sources," Brown said. "It is then the oflicers of the University who meet, consider the s_ugge.~tions, and make the final determina­tions. 
"After the letter is issued, we look for 
see ANNAN/page 4 
----------·· -­

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, February 3, 2000 

INSIDE COLUMN 


A golden ring 
We take pride in no symbol of our status as Notre Dame students and alumni than our class rings. No other school in the country has alumni as fanatic about proving their school pride so blatantly as our fellow Domers, and rightly so, for ours is a tradition of unparalleled family and exrellence. But, as with all symbols. its meaning is polyvalent 
aud there is much more to my class ring than simply showing off my bachelor of arts. 
Fir!lt, it is a sign that, at some point in my life. I had around $600 to shell out on a piece of jewelry. For myself; not as a gift or as a 

donation to someone who 
A.J. Boyd
needed the money for food or clothing, but for a pretty piece of gold to sit on my assistant 
finger. viewpointIt is a sign that I have lit­
editor 
erally bought into the very disease that I railed against when I first saw it permeating the ostensibly Catholic character of this institution. It is a malign corruption of life known a.s materialism, the cure for which is harder to find than "for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle." 
There are times when I feel the weight of my ring on my right hand antl an1 forced to think of the chains that Marley wears in his visit to Ebeneezer Scrooge. It seems I have forged the first link in my own chains of eternal bondage. and I fear it is larger than most. Worse, I find no comfort in the idea that comes from a fun­damental reading of Matthew 25:29 that reads: "For to one who has, more will be given and he will grow rich; but from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away." It is an idea that seems to be incorporated into the mission statement of both financial aid and development offices. 
Although I have only had my ring since July, l have already noticed several dings and imper­fections. At first I was overwhelmed with what people would think when they saw how ugly my ring had become. I worried that I had not been able to keep it aesthetically perfect. Then I realized that its condition was a perfect alle­gory of Notre Dame itself. 
When you're here long enough to learn to care for the place and the people here, you pay attention to everything and you begin to see the dings and imperfections. For people of a good heart and a righteous soul, it is easy to become obsessed with these, discouraged that they exist and cynical that anyone could see beauty in something so horribly flawed. 
But then you realize that despite a discol­oration here or a small dent there, the whole of the ring is still gold, and to anyone who meets you and doesn't inspect it with an overcritical eye, it may as well be unblemished. 
~tuch the same can be said of the Notre Dame experience. Despite what corruption or frustrations you may find, in time !though usu­ally not until after you graduate), you will learn to see again the gold of the whole and not just the damage of one small area. 
Finally, it is a symbol of the office of Notre Dame Alumnus (or Alumna), which carries a unique power and responsibility. It is a sign of our education and our commitment to service. It is a sign that we can accomplish great things against formidable odds. It is a sign that will allow us unhindered passage into positions at any number of corporations, firms and grad schools. 
The 11iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Josh Bourgeois Amanda Greco 
Colleen McCarthy Graphics Courtney Boyle 
Jose Cuellar 
Sports Production 
Molly McVoy Lauren Bemgan Viewpoint Lab Tech Lila Haughey Liz Lang 
Th, O\,servcr (US PS 599 2-4000) is published Monday ,hrough Frid,1y except during CXd.m and \.at.:J.tion pe.i-ioJ.~. The Ob.~crvi:r ii. a m,mbei-o( thi;'.' Associated Press. All reproduction tights are reserved. 



THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 
Thursday 
. 
Game: "Music Video Bingo," 5 p.m. to 7 p.m., Noble family Dining llall, Saint Mary's. 

. 
Performance: Keenan Revue, 7;30 p.m., O'Lauglin Auditorium, Sain Mary's. 


Compiled from U-Wire reports 


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Dorms vandalized at University of Mississippi 
OXFORD, Miss. 

Two bathroom stalls in the University of Mississippi Hedleston Hall wern vandalized with racial slurs Tuesday night. 
The words "Die N------s" and "F--­N------s" were scrawled on two bath­room stall walls in a third floor bath­room in Hedleston Hall. The first phrase was carvf'd into a small sec­tion of one wall. The second phrase was about two feet long with six-inch letters. It was \\Titt(m in black mark­er. 
Walter Lane, a freshman 1-ledleston resident, said the graffiti first appeared around 5 p.m. Tuesday. 
Lane said there was a hall meeting about the matter at 11 p.m. He said that part of the problem may be that there are few black students in Hedleston Hall. 
"There's only three black people 
Saturday 

. 
Lecture: Thomas Aquinas Symposium, 3 p.m., Stapleton Lounge, Sa.int Mary's. 

. 
Theatre: "How I Learned to Drive," St. Edward's Hall Players, 8 p.m., Washington Hall. 


Sunday 
. 
Film: "Gadjo Dilo," 2 p.m., Snite Museum. 

. 
Film and Lecture: "Gospel According to Matthew," 7 p.m., Snite Museum. 


Friday 

. 
Film: "The Last Temptation of Christ," 7 p.m., Snite Museum. 

. 
Discussion: "Alumnae Porsprectives on Identity and Sexual Orientation, SMC and Beyond," 4 p.m., Dalloway's, Saint Mary's. 



that stay in lledleston," he said. 
Johnathan Hankins, Laue's room­mate. said the people at the hall meet­ing knew the identity of the vandals. 
"They know exactly who did it," Hankins said. "They were laughing as though it were funny. They're just in there laughing about it." 
Residence hall association president Mike Juhas said housing director Bill McCartney has a policy of getting rid of any grafliti as soon as it is found. 
Groundhog draws PSU revelers 
UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa. 
It's Groundhog Day, and the most hearty of partygo­e rs are already gathered at Gobbler's Knob in Punxsutawney -including a Pennsylvania State University bunch. After a party from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. Tuesday at The Rathskeller Al!American, about 90 ardent groundhog fans boarded two buses and were on their merry way. Bill Medland, day supervisor of the bar, hoped the alcohol from the party would keep the travelers warm until the groundhog emerges at around 7 a.m. this nippy February morning. Drinking at the event is illegal, so the group must choose between finding other ways to amuse themselves while there or stealthily circumventing the law. "It's not nec­essarily a drinking event," Medland said. "We will, of course, be obeying all laws." Hypothetically, though, if someone on the trip were to get a little, well, thirsty. Medland wasn't too worked up. "I think if they have a small nask or something, just to stay warm, there won't be any trouble," he theorized. "The police are going to be looking for someone drinking out of' a keg, being stupid and acting drunk," Medland added. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
...............~: 

;~,~--"'. 
'H L 
Q. 

Friday Q 34 21 
·-.. .~. 

Saturday 2::::1 36 21 Sunday ~ 38 27 
_..c:3 42 26

Mo~day ·•.+.-+.-:•
.~-·:· 
¢­
~

DQ~uu~~ .. -.. ,~-.. ' ...... .-. -:•.(·.(· -::..-::.-=. ~ 
·....•, .. 

Showers T~storms Rain Flurr/95 Snow lc9 Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associ.1fed Press Graph,csNet 
"I think McCartney's policy is it's down in 24 hours," Juhas said. Juhas said finding such vandalism in residence halls is unusual. 
"I've been here four years on cam­pus and I've never heard of it anytime since I've been here," Juhas said. "I've never seen anything like that happen." 
This is the second time this month that racial tensions have flared in the Garland-Hedleston-Mayes complex. A GHM resident advisor said a bulletin board display in honor of Black History Month was torn down and replaced with a computer generated poster featuring a monkey eating an apple and a Confederate flag. According to the resident advisor, the poster said, "Do not post pictures of n­-----s or n----lovers on the board." Hankins said racial problems have been occurring all year long. 

UI students give profs grades 
IOWA CITY, Iowa 

Seventy-seven University of Iowa students have voiced their opinions on their professors to the Internet community through an online service intro­duced last November. By logging onto http://www. wegrade.comlui, any UI student can register a pro­fessor and make comments on her or his teaching style. "I saw a need for students to share ideas," said Lupe Brown, the developer of the site and a Michigan State University graduate student. Brown is in the process of setting up similar sites for the other Big Ten universities. At Michigan State, where the site was introduced in October, there have been as many as 1,700 hits per day. The statements made by students are not verified before they are pub­lished on the Web. Any profanity, racial slurs or multiple submissions by a single student are deleted from the site, Brown said. "This is totally built on student honesty. As an education major, I under­stand that the more honesty you allow students, the more they'll be honest in their dealings with you," he said. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

Atlanta  59  38  Las Vegas  68  43  PMland  54  38  
Ba1t1more  41  30  Memphis  55  34  Sacramento  57  48  
Boston  32  21  Milwaukee  32  22  St. Louis  41  27  
Chicago  39  28  New York  38  30  Tampa  67  51  
Houston  69  46  Philadelphia  38  29  Wash DC  41  30  

Thursday, February 3, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

By TIM LOGAN 
News Editor 
Illinois Governor George Ryan's decision Monday to sus­pend executions in his state has anti-death penalty activists at Notre Dame more optimistic for a similar statute to be intro­duced in Indiana. 
With the move. which Ryan made to prevent the execution of 
PE1E RICHARDSON/The Observer 
innocent prisoners, lllinois
A group of interracial couples, singles who had previous interracial relationships and Interest­
became the first state that uses
ed students met Wednesday to talk about the aspects of interracial dating. 
capital punishment to suspend the practice. The state has over­turned 13 of its 25 death penalty convictions since it reinstated
Panel discusses interracial dating 
execuLions in 1977. 
December.

"This decision gives a 
By KRISTEN FITZGERALD 
News \X,' rirer 
Mirella Riley's parents didn't want her t(} date outside ol' her Mexican racP-. 
So. during her freshman year. when she began dating her black bovf'riend -now her husband -problems arose. 
"My family had problems with the relationship because we are a traditional Mexican family," said Riley, a 1994 Notre Dame graduate who works in the Alumni office. "They didn't like anything that strayp,d from a traditional Mexican family." 
Panel members at the din­ner and discussion on interra­cial dating hosted by the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs Wednesday evening expressed similar stories. 
A group of almost 40 people, including interracial couples, singles who had previous interracial relationships and interested students joined in the discussion. Interracial 
Ill. suspension gives hope to ND activists 
would place a moratorium until the procedure can be studied further, as it will be in Illinois. A bill to ban the practice was filed last session, but ctid not advance beyond committee. 
Death penalty critics expressed hope the Illinois deci­sion might push the legislature of this state to go further in 
' investigating capital punishment. 
"Hopefully they'll have some impact on discussi.ons in the Indiana state legislature," said John Linn, president of ND/SMC Right to Life. 
Indiana has executed seven people since 1976, including 
D.H. Fleenor, a mentally retard­ed man, in 

couples told about their with their families was easier 
Campus The state has 
activists were boost to the abolition 
encounters with their parent.s, than they t.hought it would be. 
never com­

friends. and the public and Most stated that their families 
pleased with 
movement in Indiana." muted a deci­
about their own feelings about were skeptical at first, but 
the Illinois sion, accord­
interracial dating. that their fears were eased as 
decision and ing to the 
optimistic that Matt Monberg National
Thev also offered reasons time went on. 
why "their loving parents The group spoke about the 
it rnuy encour­president, ND chapter of Coalition to 
would react negatively to challenges presented not only 
age Indiana to Amnesty International Abolish the 
follow suit. 
interracial dating. They said because of the racial differ-
reasons could stem 

"Being caught choosing 
f r o m 

upbringing between your boyfriend or a general or girlfriend and your
feeling of 
family is a terrible
prejudice. 
Sophomore situation to be in . ., Stephanie Nemeth, a 
Mirella Riley 
cacasion, 
ND graduate
was con­cerned when 
ences, but 

'Tm hopeful 
also because 

that there will be something of a 
of cultural 

ripple effect," said Maureen 
differences. 

Kramlich, president of Jus Vitae 
Trying new 

-Law School Right to Life. 
foods and 

"Maybe something will spread." 
learning new 

Matt Monberg, president of 
languages 

Notre Dame's chapter of 
were sugges­

Amnesty International, noted 
tions the 

that death penalty statutes are 
panel offered 

often grouped by region. The 
as a way to 

lack of capital punishment in 
help make 

Michigan, Wisconsin and now 
in the state, according to Kramlich. One abolishes the practice altogether and the other 
Death Penalty. Although some say it should have. 
'Tm certain there arc a num­ber of men on death row in Indiana who are innocent," Kramlich said. 
Monberg noted that anti-death penalty activism is one of the Notre Dame chapter of Amnesty International's top priorities, and that students can make a difference on this issue. 
"I would encourage students to get involved as much as they can," he said. "It's easy to get involved, and every voice counts." 
One of Illinois' overturned con­victions resulted directly from investigations done by a class of journalism students at Northwestern University. Anthony Porter was pardoned last year. two days before his scheduled execution after the student journalists uncovered the truth behind his case and notified authorities. 
her parents did not accept her black boyfriend. 
Riley identified with Nemeth. 
"Being caught choosing between your boyfriend or girlfriend and your family is a terrible situation to be in," Riley said. 
Many couples stated, how­ever, that coming to terms uncomfortable parents or friends more understanding. 

At the conclusion, audience members were asked to fill out a form, which would set them up with people of other races for a date. All those who participated are invited to another discussion next month to talk about the date. 
Illinois could bode well for efforts to end the practice in Indiana. 
"This decision gives a boost to the abolition movement in Indiana," he said. "Indiana should at least investigate their death penalty cases more close­ly." 
There are currently two bills in the Indiana state legislature that would suspend executions 
CORRECTION 
In Wednesday's Scene feature "At corner of world, Lyons Hall serves all" was incorrectly attributed to Bridget Mahoney. It was written by Laura Gaines. 
The Observer regrets the error. 
**Dinner! 
································································* 
February 4th, 2000 · 5-7ptn at ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB!!
..............•••.••......•.......................................... 
* 
Come outfor Papa John's Pizza & Breadsticks ..... . and don'tforget your ID!! * 
New delivery 
Schedule!! 
Pizza will arrive every 15 min. 'JJrouglit to you by yC1UI' Cfa.ss ef2000 couuii 
* 



page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 3, 2000 

Service 
continued from page 1 
Andrew Not•thc, a 1998 gradu­ate and currently an assistant director of Holy Cross Associates, recently served as a tPacher for one year at SL John Vianney parish in Phoenix. 
"Personally, it really opened my eyes to experiences I might not have always had," he said. 
At the same time, \'olunteers can receive placements in Chile, another project which allows associates to serve the poor and grow in faith. David Atwood, '97 Notre Dame graduate, worked with the people in Pocuro, the rural suburbs in Chile. 
"It was a difficult decision to leave the U.S.," he said, "but looking back at Notre Dame. you realize what a gift it is when you go to a poorer country. It was the best decision I made in my life. It made me rethink who I am and what I believe in. I am very grateful for the experience." 
AmeriCorps South Bend, which is coordinated by Holy Cross Associates, also offers part-time and full-time placements in a variety of local non-profit organi­zations around South Bend. 
"The objective of AmeriCorps South Bend is to assist men, women and children with 
Annan 
continued from page 1 
other points of contacts," said Nanni. The contacts may be trustees, faculty or members of the administration in Notre Dame. These people then try to convey Notre Dame's theme. 
Since Annan receives letters from hundreds of universities aud spends only 50 percent of his time at the l;.N. headquar­acquiring access to human ser­vices at critical points in their lives. Although Holy Cross Associates has a faith element, AmeriCorps volunteers ultimate­ly evolve spiritually also because service work is based upon faith," said Bertha Baker, assis­tant coordinator of AmeriCorps South Bend. 
Baker coordinates AmeriCorps activities and recently completed two years of service at Dismas positions in which everything is provided and covered. No prior service experience is necessary; participants simply must have a college education. 

Applications for one-year domestic placements will be accepted on a rolling basis until March 22. 2000. Volunteers can also serve a two-year program in Chile. However, that application deadline already passed. 
According to Pinter, "It is a 

House, a resi­dential pro-. gram for for­"It is a great program 
mer prisoners 

and offers many
and college 

students. opportunities to help Much more others and grow infaith." 
than a service 

program,AmeriCorps is John Pinter a movement to director of Holy Cross Associates unHe volun­teers, who great program and offers many opportu­nities to help others and grow in faith. If any student feels a call to service, it would be worthwhile to check it out." 
Holy Cross 
make a difference in the lives of those they assist. Many of the placements can accommodate a student's schedule and provide both a living allowance and an Education Award from AmeriCorps. Used for current expense or after graduation to reduce loans. the Education Award ranges from $2,362 for part-time work to $4,725 for full­time work. 
Recent college graduates may apply for Holy Cross Associate 
ters in New York, each school needs to find "what would dis­tingu is h your university from any other one," said Nanni. 
Nanni said Notre Dame's international emphasis distin­guishes it from other universi­ties and attracted Annan because the University parallels "the United Nation's theme and efforts of democratization in South America and other parts of the globe." 
"Kofi Annan is the largest governing official in this world who brings peace and justice to 

Report: Arsonists started Seton Hall fire 
AssociJted Press 
SOUTH ORANGE, N.J. 
Oflicials refused to comment Wednesday on a published report that a deadly dormitory firn at Seton Hall University was delib1:rately set. 
The Star-Ledger of Newark quoted unidentified law enforcement sources in a report Wednesday saying that investigators believed the lire was not an accident and that at least four suspects had been identified. 
Three 18-vear-old students died in the Jan. 19 blaze. No charges have been filed. 
University spokeswoman Lisa Grider referred all ques­tions about the report to the Essex County prosecutor's office. Executive Assistant Prosecutor Charlotte Smith said her office would not com­ment on it. 
The U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms has not reached a conclusion about the fire's cause, Special Agent Joseph G. Green said Wednesdav. 
''It's too early to tell," he said. 
The university held a news conference Wednesday to announce it will be installing sprinkler systems immediately in its two dormitories that lack them. One is Boland Hall. where the fire broke out. 
The newspaper said investi­gators believe the fire, which injured more than 60 students, may have resulted from a feud between a group of students and some non-students who were in the building the night of the blaze. 

Associates is also sponsoring a "Day of Heflection" for all cur­rent and returned volunteers in the area. Open to all former vol­unteers who have served in the 
U.S. and overseas, the meeting will take place on Feb. 12 at Moreau Seminary from 9 a.m. to 
4:30 p.m. 
For more information about future meetings, please contact Holy Cross Associates at 219­631-5521 or e-mail at http://www.nd.edu/~hcassocl. 
the world community," said Nanni. 
"If a world crisis would occur, then he would not be able to attend, but the chances of that are very slim," said Nanni. In that case, he would send a top delegate of his office to speak in the commencement cnremony. 
Although Annan's visit will be a great honor, "one thing that we do not want to be is pride­ful. We hope that what we stand for and our ideals will resonate to great leaders in the world," said Nanni. 
NEWS IN BRIEF 

. 
Housing contracts: Housing contracts for the 2000-01 have been distributed to all freshmen, sophomores and juniors. Everyone who receives a contract must return it regardless of whether you will live on-campus, off-campus or study overseas. If you did not receive a contract, please report to the Oflice of Student Residences at 305 Main Building before the deadline of Feb. 9 to have a duplicate contract made. To be eligible for room picks in April, your contract must b,~ returned, in person, by 5 p.m. on Feb. 9 to the Offcie of Student Hesidences. 

. 
Summer hall staff applications: Summer residence hall staff applications for hall manager and assistant manager are now available in the Ollice of Student Residences, 305 Main Building from 8 a.m. until 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. Applications received prior to FPb. 11 will receive priority consideration. 


All Faculty & Students Are Invited to participate in an  
Open Forum on the relationship· between academic & student life  

 ¦ What expectations do you have for faculty involvement in  
student life outside the classroom?  
Roos SPOIITS RECREATION CENlER DEPAATMENT Of AllilfTICS  ¦ Are academic life and student life well integrated at ND?  
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME  
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center  ¦ What would you like to tell us?  
Drop-In Recreation Schedule  * * *  
In-Line Hockey Sundays 8:30-10:30  The Ad Hoc Committe on Academic and Student Life will  
Floor Hockey Mondays 8:30-10:30  sponsor two open meetings:  
Indoor Soccer Tuesdays 8:30-10:30  
Volleyball Wednesdays 7:00-10:00  Wednesday, February 9, 4:30-5:30 pm  
Lacrosse Thursdays 8:30-10:30  Thursday, February 17, 7:00-8:00 pm  
Badminton Fridays 7:00-10:00  
Badminton Saturdays 9:00-11:00  Both meetings will take place in the Notre Dame Room on the  
2nd floor of Lafortune.  
Come by Yourself, or Bring a Friend!  
All times are PM. Schedule is in effect only when classes  Please join us!  
are in session.  




orld 
•I 
Thursday, February 3, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WlRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Bush tries to reassure GOP Congress 
WASIIINGTON 
Gov. George W. Bush ·s campaign sought lo reassuro Hr.public-an lawmakers WC'dnesday about tlrn Texas governor's drubbing in the New Hampshire primary, saying the state has a "history of 'obstinate' politiral primary behavior." Whilo supporters "may have hoped for results that wrrr differPnt." said an A-mail from Rep. 11oy Blunt to Bush's congressional allie;s, "tht> results were reasonably consistent with expectations and the tradition's" of New Hampshin•.. Sen. John \\lcCain won lhe prima­rv 49 percent to :-m pr,rccnt in a livr.-way race. a· far biggPr margin than any pre-primary polling had predicted. Blunt, a Missouri law­mahr who is Bush's official llouse liaison. wPnt on to rcini'orr.c the campaign's message that l\lew llampshire was a "bump in the road" that will f'VPntually wind its way to thP WhitP-llous(). 
Alleged Peru rebels go on crime spree 
Ll!\1A. Peru 
Susper,tc!d Shining Path rebels killed three park rangers and robbed passenger buses and cargo trucks during a rash of attacks in Peru's central Andes, authorities said Wednesday. The rangers wcrn shot Tuesday by masked assailants in a resr,rve !'or vicuna, a small non-domesticated relative of the llama. about 275 miles soutlwast of thP capital. Lima. On Mondav. five masked intruders broke into the homP ;,r a ranr,her in a nearby village and gunned him down in front of his family. A spokeswoman for the Prefect of Ayacucho. the highland department where the killings took place, said all the victims had their hands bound and had been killed by a single bullet to the head. a "trademark of Shining Path" rebels. 
Suspect pleads guilty in kidnapping 
LANCASTER, Ohio 
A man who abducted a 3-year-old girl and sealed her in an attic for several days pleaded guilty Wednesday to kidnapping, rape and other charges. Jason Wagner, 24, could be sentenced to a maximum of 45 years to life in prison for the April 26 abdur.tion, said his attorney. Tullis Hogers. 1--Ie was to have gone on trial Wednesday on a rangt> of' charges that carried a possible penalty of lif'e in prison without parole. Fairfield County Prosecutor David Landefeld said thf' virtim's family sup­ported the decision to accept the plea. "This has been a terrible ordeal for them. They want [the girl] to have a chanr.e to lead a nor­mal life," Landefeld said. The girl is now 4 years old. 

S&P 500: Compo~itr 
\ ()lurne:11003.20 -0.1<, 1,069,800,000 
1409.12 
VOLUME LEADERS 
s;QIIHIII :i:;u;n1 ?i ,~a11ra ~ s;&tiWUi Hl!!.I 
AMERICA ONLINE  AOL  +10.l9  +5.6301J  so .es  
Cl.S'CO SYioTBMS.  csco  -). 14  -3. 9'l2S  111,88  
ORACI,E CORF  ORCL  +0.57  ..o. 3100  54. 31  
QUAU:OMM IN<C  QCOM  +4 .41  +5. 9975  1'12-00  
IN'T'l:t, COR"P  INTC  -1. 36  -1. 377:i  100 .06  
HlCR.OSOf'T CORP DRLL COM~UTRR  MS.FT mn,L  -1,07 -2.10  -2.1275 -0. 9175  100,81 38.12  
S:•Tll.OS GROUP  EGRI>  +l. 57  +O. 3125  20.25  
COMPAQ COMPUTgR MCI WOR.L~OMM IN  c,o WCOM  -.3. 51 ~(l.96  -1. 0000 -0 ..4'.175  27 .so 4 s. 00  

SCOTLAND 


Court judge, Lord Ranald May 3 as scheduled. The spiracy to murder and con­
Associated Press 

Sutherland. trial has faced repeated trave ntion of the British Instead. the pleas were delays since the suspects, Aviation Security Act. The EDINBURGH relayed by their attorneys, alleged Libyan intelligence airliner exploded over The two Libyans accused 
Bill Taylor and Richard agents, were surrendered Lockerbie, Scotland, on 
of bombing Pan Am Flight Keen, at the close of a one­for trial last April. Dec. 21, 1988, killing 259 103 in 1988 pleaded inno­
hour session called to The trial will be held passengers and crew ­
cent Wednesday at a pre­
resolve lingering differ­without a jury at Camp including 189 Americans 
trial hearing as both sides 
ences over witness protec­Zeist, a former U.S. mili­-and 11 people on the agreed to speed up a trial tion measures. tary base in the ground.
that will cap one of the The move was unusual in Netherlands, under an In an overall spirit of 
most extensive internation­a Scottish court of law, unprecedented agreement consensus, Scottish Crown al terrorism investigations 
where pleas are generally between Libyan leader Solicitor-General Colin 
on record. 

entered several days Moammar Gadhafi and the Boyd and the defense coun­Defendants Abdel Basset before the start of a trial U.S. and British govern­sels said they would acceptAli al-Megrahi and Lamen with the accused present. ments. measures to conceal the Khalifa Fhimah, in custody Yet its acceptance by the Al-Megrahi and Fhimah identities of CIA and in the Netherlands, did not 
court was an indication could face up to life in a European secret agents
enter the pleas in person 
that all parties are eager Scottish prison if convicted who refuse to appear as 
before the Scottish High 
to see the trial begin on on charges of murder, con-public witnesses. 
Earlier Alaska Air problems reported 
Associated Press 

PORT HUENEME, Calif. 
Investigators said Wednesday they are looking into reports that the Alaska Airlines jetli1rnr that plungPd into the Pacific Ocean had problems with the aircraft's tail controls in a flight hours earlior. 
Authorities also began analyzing recordings of the pilots' conversations with a Seattle maintenance crew made while the pilots tried to control thP plane in the terrifying moments before it nose dived into the sea Monday. killing all 88 aboard. 
The plane crashed after a pilot reported problems with the horizon­tal stabilizer. a wing-like structurP on the tail that keeps the plane flying level. 
Dozens of ships W()re ord('rcd to abandon the search for survivors and shift thPir focus .to recovering flight recorders and wreckage that could explain why Flight 261 went down about 10 miles off the Southern California coast 
The search was officially called off over the protest of some family mem­bers who held out hope that some of the plane's passengers and crew might still be alive in the chilly waters of the Santa Barbara Channel. 
"We have far exreeded our esti­mate of survivability," Coast Guard \'ice Adm. Thomas Collins said after announcing the decision al a news conference. 
On shore, investigators inter­viewed airline employees about reports that a different crew of pilots complained of problems with the aircraft's horizontal stabilizer as they headed toward Puerta Vallarta, Mexico, on Monday. 
The jetlirn~r crashed hours later on the return trip to San Francisco and Seattle. 
The Seattle Times reported Wednesday that the crew had reported problems with the stabiliz­er on the southbound leg of the Hight. 
"We don't know if it's true, we arc investigating that," John Hammerschmidt, a member of the National Transportation Safety Board, said of the report. 
The pilots who reported the prob­lem will be interviewed, an anony­mous source familiar with the investigation told the Times. 
Possible problems with the stabi­lizer forced an American Airlines MD-80 to land in Phoenix 20 min­utes after takeoff Wednesday. The plane, which had been headed toward Dallas, is part of the same series of aircraft as the Alaska MD­83 that crashed. 
Investigators, meanwhile, inter­viewed pilots who were flying in the area of the crash and may have seen Flight 261 go down. 
The audio tapes of the pilots and the Seattle maintenance crew apparently capture an exchange that took place as the pilots tried to troubleshoot what was going wrong, Jim Ila!!, chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board, said on morning talk shows. 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 3, 2000 
STUDENT SENATE 

Report to focus on student involvement, academics 
By IAURA ROMPF 
Assistant News Editor 
Board of Trustees roport chairman John Obsorn and vice chair Mark Donahey presented their proposed topics for the May report at Wednesday's StudPnt Senate mePting. 
"Whu.t we could be address­ing this year arc three main issues,·• Osborn said. "[The] first issue is that of tuition, fees and student financial assis­tance." 
Osborn said. adding that there is a 5 to 6 percent increase on tuition every year and questions arise un whether students are seeing a rorre­sponding increase in services. 
"The next issue is increasing student involvement in University governance," Osborn said. "Who's on these commit­tees'? How'd they get there?" 
Osborn called for central coordination of student appointments to these commit­tees and also dissemination of committee records and decision for public record. 
'Tve been told that the Board of Trustees is not the proper body to address this issue with," Osborn said. "However, I would respond to this complaint that it is the only body to possi­bly address this issue. If the Board of Trustees were to com­mit itself to this issue, it would be very powerful motivation. It would have a large effect and changes could be made." 
This topic included possible addition of a student to the Board of Trustees itself. 
"There are wonderful alumni. faculty and other members making decision that will effect students," -said Michael Palumbo, student body vice president. "Having a student presence on the Board would be nice." 
"The final proposed topic is curricular reform, moderniza­tion and enrichment." Osborn said. "This would include increasing access to high popu­larity classes and also make consistent requirement num­bers and give students more opportunities by increasing the number of' minors." Osborn added this would include spe­cialized programs in cultural studies. 
After presenting all three pro­posed topics, the Senate voted with an overwhelming majurity to support the second topir addressing student involvement in University governance. 
Also presented at tho meeting by James Jesse. was the 1999­2000 Student Union spending review. 
"We're out of debt and I fore­see us going even morP out of debt," Jesse said. "The money is there and I feel very c:oml'ort­ahlo." 
However. there was contro­Vflrsv around the Student Business Board which r.ontrols 
N.D Video, Ad-,i\'orks. Irish Gardens FlowPr Shop and Dome Desig-n. 
Senators questioned wlrnther the Business Board's debt was affecting other allocated funds. 
"The current debt [for the Student Business Board] is around $32,000, but it's an his­torical debt. For the first time in years, they were profitable," Jesse said. 
Jesse Pxplained that over thP past six years, the board has lost about $5,000 per year and thus, the debt had continued 1.o add up. 
"The assumption was 'Hey, it's going to eventually help repair itself' and for the first year it has fixed itself. However, this debt does not effect anything else. It has no bearing on other money allocat­ed." 
The actual spending review report will be brought to vote next week by the Senate. 
In other Senate news: 
. 
Senators were presented with a letter from Matthew Mamak, chief of staff, explain­ing the current state of SafeRide. The letter said that a student coordinator is currentlv being hired for SafeRide and hopefully this new design will rectify the problems. 

. 
Micah Murphy, student body president, addressed the Senate and said that a new plan for distribution of football tick­ets is in the works and will be presented by March. 

. 
Also. a plan is being made to provide a hoc~ey ticket pass for students. Finally, Murphy said that a student services week will be held Feb. 20 throu~h March 3. 



HOME OF THE ORIGINAL ... 
Stuffed Pizza 
Come and Enjoy One of The Area :S Fine Pizza and Pasta Houses 
$1 off each pizza (any size) or dinner with this AD 
Located behind Hacienda in the 100 Center, Lincolnway W., Mishawaka 
Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 5-10 PM Fri. & Sat. 5·11 PM 
254-9177 


PETE AICHARDSONfThe Observer 

Treasurer Jesse James presented the 1999-2000 Student Union spending review to the Student Senate Wednesday. Jesse explained that the Student Business Board has turned over a profit for the first time in six years. 

Off Campus 

)ln1iorParmtWukfflb Special 
t:cbNAr\111-ll, 1000 
Come earfy, stay fate, same price! 
Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms available for your parents. Weekend cost is $60.00 per parent, Whelher you stay Two, three. or foll' nights. Rooms are availabie Thursday through Sunday. 
For reservations, caU 219-631-7512. 
tRtM 

0
CENT·• • • 
Appalachia Se:m.inar 


EXTENDED DEADLINE 
THE SEMINAR 
• 
Service-learning through various sites in Appalachia, March 11-18, 2000 

• 
One credit Theology course 

• 
Involves orientation & follow-up classes 

• 
Past participants in Appalachia Seminar are encouraged to appply as Site Coordinators 

• 
Presents opportunity to work, laugh, & learn with others 


The Appalachia Seminar during Fall and Spring break presents a unique service­learning opportunity. Students travel to a variety of sites in Appalachia which focus on issues concerning rural health care, the environment, women, children, and housing construction. 1brough hands on work and person-to-person contacts, students experience the cultural richness of the area and begin to understand and analyze the social forces that influence the Appalachian people. 
APPLICATIONS 
Available at the Center for Social Concerns Extended Due date: Friday, February 4, 2000 $40 deposit with application 
(non-refundable if accepted) 
FURTHER INFO~'l\,fATION 
Rose Domingo, Student Task Force Co-Chairperson, 634-3960 Rachel Tomas Morgan, Seminar Director, 631-5293 



Thursday, February 3, 2000 The Observer . RELIGIOUS NEWS page 7 
Film series to examine literal, metaphorical Christ 
By ERlN PIROUTEK Assistant News Editor 
Al Notre Dame. religion and popular culturn are inextricably linked. 
This link will be explored in the week-long festival, "Imaging the Divine: A Jpsus Film and Lecture Series," which explores varying repres1rntations of' Christ in films from the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s. 
The iilms will be accompanied by lectures from Lloyd Baugh, associate professor of fitrn stud­ies and theology at Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome. 
"The culture has produced 


HOMES FOR RENT 
-Domus Properties has six, seven, and eight bedroom houses available 
-Student neighborhoods close to 
campus -Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 2000/2001 school year BETTER HURRYI!! ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT 
Contact Kramer (219)27 4-1501 or (219)234-2436 or {219)67 4-2572 

Now 
--,,Jlc•~•
. Work In an lntemshlp 

,.,~ Fall 2000 ' 
. 
Study Publlc Affairs 

. 
Fulflll Fine Arte Requirement 



•
....,,.,2001
. Study Foreign Polley 

Deadline• Feb. 28th 
,MlaMblftol ..,.Df'/jll 
Open to ltlldentl from ALLColle1u 
Come to the informational meeting Thursday, February 3rd 
m11111 
these films. some of which we approve of, some of which we may not," said ilaugh, noting that he analyzes films from a theological perspective. 
The most controversial of the seven films is "The Last Temptation of Christ," directed bv Martin Scorsese. 
\vhen the film was shown on r:ampus in September 1989 it prompted protesLs and a Burry of letters to The Observer. 
Most people object to the film because it shows dimensions of Jesus' sexuality, said Baugh. 
But Baugh cautioned that the film's controversial interpreta• tions of Jesus should not cause people to avoid the film. 
"We can't just say it's a sin to 

6:30 p.m. 125 DeBartolo Hall 
Prof. Peri Arnold, Director '.346 O'Shaughnessy Peri.E.Arnold.1@nd.edu 
see it," said Baugh. Viewing the film allows for dialogue to devel­op a.bout the issues it confronts. 
"It's the first film to attempt to represent the humanity of Jesus," Baugh said. 
However. he noted serious problems in Scorsese's charac­terization ofJesus. 
"I have to say, let's look'at it; let's see where it's weak," Baugh said. 
Laura Holt. the event's orga­nizer, said that she did not encounter any objections to showing the film. 
"I haven't heard a whimper," she said. 
The seven f1lms fall into two groups -literal and metaphori­cal representations of Jesus. 
One film, Denys Arcand 's "Jesus of Montreal," encom­passes both. The main charac­ter is an actor who is playing the role of Jesus. To prepare for his part, the man researches Jesus. He enrounters problems, first with the Church, then the police and eventually dies on a cross. 
"The metaphorical image ulti­mately has more value than the literal image," said Baugh of the movie. 
The festival will also address the question, "Is faith a prereq­uisite for making a film about Jesus?" 
Baugh explained that several atheistic directors have made very good religious films ­including Pier Palo Pasolini, whose film "The Gospel According to St. Matthew" will be shown Sunday. 
A Jesus Film and Lecture Series 
February 3-9, 2000  Featuring Lloyd Baugh, S.J.  
Annenberg Auditorium at  Associate Professor of  
the Snite Museum  Film Studies and Theology  
Universi  of Notre Dame  Pontifical Gregorian University, Rome  

La Ricotta (1963) Pier Paolo Pasolini 

The Last Temptation of Christ (1988) Martin Scorsese 
Godspell (1973) David Greene 

The Gospel according to St. Matthew (1964) Pier Paolo Pasolini 
Jesus of Montreal (1989) Denys Arcand 
Out of Rosenheim (1987) Percy Adlon 

A Short Film about Love (1988) Krysztof Kieslowski 
All events are free and open to the public 
PETE CUELLARlt1 · ODs:::rver 

Archbishop: U.S. challenge threat to Anglican church 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Faxes and e-mail messages have been flying among the world's Anglican churches this week as they cope with a serious challenge to authority from some within Anglicanism's U.S. branch. the Episcopal Church. 
The division -at root, a dis­agreement over such issues as gay clergy -was triggered by events played out on the other side of the world. 
A week ago, at St. Andrew's Cathedral in Singapore, two con­servative American priests were consecrated as bishops to work in the United States without Episcopal Church authorization. 
The leader of the 77 million Anglicans, Archbishop of Canterbury George Carey, quickly declared that the conse­crations of the Rev. Charles H. Murphy III and the Rev. John H. Rodgers Jr. were "irrcsponsi­ble"and said they "only harm the unity of the communion,"the formal name of his 77-million­member flock. 
The head of the Episcopal Church, Presiding Bishop Frank Griswold. said. "I am appalled 
The musical genre is repre­sented with David Greene's "Godspell," which is an inter­pretation of the Gospel of Mark. Musicals are usually very super­ficial, but here character is developed, said Baugh. 
The festival is part of the department of theology's millen­nial series, 
"Building the Civilization of Love: Imagining the Third Millennium." The series is a response to Pope John Paul II's call for a holy year. 
The film and lHcture series is the focus of a one-credit theolo­gy class, in which approximately 130 students have registered. All films and lectures are also are free to the public. 
Baugh is the author of the book, "Imaging the Divine," which examines the topics of the film festival in more detail. 
by this irregular action. 
"These two men have been ordained outside all formal structures of the Anglican world,"he told The Associated Press in an interview. 
Anglican rules, based on an ecumenical council in AD. 451, require that clergy be appointed not just to a country -in this case the United States -but to a specific locale, said Canon J. Robert Wright, a church histori­an. 
"I don't think there's any precedent,"Wright said. 
What, then, led to the conse­crations of Murphy, a rector in Pawley's Island, S.C., and Rodgers, a retired seminary dean in Ambridge, Pa.? To understand the events, it is nec­essary to understand the six bishops who performed the cer­emony. 
The "Singapore Six"-the host archbishop of Southeast Asia, plus Rwanda's archbishop, two retired U.S. bishops, and others from Africa and South America -are vexed over Episcopal Church liberalism, especiallv thH freedom of its bishops to sanc­tion actively homosexual clergy and rituals for same-sex cou­ples. 
Thurs., Feb. 3 7-9:30 PM 
Fri., Feb. 4 7-9:30 PM 
Sat., Feb. 5 7-9:30 PM 
Sun., Feb. 6 7-9:30 PM 
Mon., Feb. 7 9:30-11 PM 
Tues., Feb. 8 7-9:30 PM 
Wed., Feb. 9 7-9:30 PM 

page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, February 3, 2000 
Web site to give away funds 
. Company offers $10,000 per day in random drawing 
A.socia red Press 
BOSTON 
An Internet site to be launched Thursday is promis­ing to give away $10,000 a day in college scholarship money. No essay required. No nerve­wracking inLerview. Just the luck of the draw. 
The folks at FreeScholarships.com know the sweepstakes may sound too good to be true. But it's the lat­est of a host of Web sites hand­ing out millions to Web surfers willing to tell marketers about themselves. 
The sr.holarships from the new Cambridge-based compa­ny arc financed largely by mar­keters and advertisers who are particularly keen on the teen­age and 20-something markets. 
And the incentives for cough­ing up demographic informa­tion are great. FreeScholarships plans to award an additional $25,000 ewrv month and $50.000 each qua;Ler, in addition Lo the daily giveaway of $10,000. 
The monev is available for college, graduate school, even private school for children. College grads with loans to pay off are also eligible, as are par­ents planning for future college bills. Winners need only be U.S. citizens over 13. 
The Web site sounds well­intentioned enough, said Mark Cannon, deputy executive direclor of the Nalional Association for College Admission Counseling, which represents guidance counselors and admissions officers. 
Still, he said. "You don't need to be a sweepstakes winner to afford collegP.» 
To ensure Lhe money goes to school and not a new car or vacation. the company will send the check directly to the collegfl, bank or other lending program, said Chuck Digate, the company's founder. 
Site vis.itors must register to be eligible. Visitors earn more chances by playing games, answering surveys and polls. referring friends and clicking on ads. 
Winners, chosen by a com­puter-generated random draw­ing, can win more than once. The odds of hitting the jackpot depen<l on how many log on. 
"rt's a !ow-energy path for people to get a shot at helping them pay for school." Digate said. 
FreeScholarships is billing itself as unique in a Web world of quick money. Others have offered one-time scholarship sweepstakes -Embark.rum, fur example, jusi wrapped up a promotion with a grand prize of four years' tuition up to $80,000. 
FreeScholarships is generat­ing mixed reviews in higher education circles. 
Buyer beware, cautioned Timothy McDonough. spokesman for the American Council on Education, a Washington-based higher edu­cation trade group. 
"You're always concerned 

about the possibility of some 
kind of scam activitv," 
Mr,Donough said. He also said 
the Web site·s !lnancial infor­
mation might not be the most 
reliable. 
Dallas Martin. president of the National Association of StudenL Pinancial Aid Administrators, said anything that helps students confront college costs should be com­mended. 
"So what if there's a com­mercial side to it'?" he said. 
Free money on the Web is a booming business. !won.com. which offers cash jackpots to Web surfers, is ranked among the 50 most popular sites of the 
21.000 sitP.s followed by the Internet survey firm MediaMetrix. 
The reality, of r.ourse, is most site visitors never win the big bucks. So FreeScholarships also provides tips on financial aid, with links to national scholarship programs. 
Half ot' all U.S. college gradu­ates emerge from school in debt -$12,000 on average at public schools. $14,000 at pri­vate schools. 
The typical yearly bill at a four-year private school. inr,Juding room and board, averages $23,651. while state sr,hools cost just under $11,000. 
The American Council on Education's Web site. CollegelsPossible.org, is designed to show college isn't as expensive as many fear. More than two-thirds of full­time undergraduates receive financial aid, averaging $6,800. 
ll(g/1 l>l<J(J<i JJressitre jt'el\' like nothing at all 
SAME GOES FOR THE CONSEQUENCES. 
White high blood presaure may have no symptoms, It does have conaequences. ~11 Increasing your risk of heart attack and stroke. That's why you should ask your doctor to check your blood pressure and help you control It. Learn AmericanHeart .1. more at www.americanheart.org or Association.V call 1-800-AHA•USA1. F1111U1111 Helf! lllseuo .,d suak, 
How will you start the millennium? 
Advising farmers in Benin Teaching physics in Nepal Planting trees In Mongolia Preventing AIDS in Ecuador Alm & Information Session • Center for Social Concerns Tuesday, February 8 • 6:00 -7:30 p.m. 
Information Seminar • LaFortune Student Center -Bring a Bag Lunch! Tuesday, February 8 • 11:30 a.m. -1:00 p.m. 
Interviews • Career Center, Flanner Hall Wednesday & Thursday, February 9 & 10 • 8:30 a.m. -4:30 p.m. 
Information Table • Hesburgh Library Lobby Monday & Tuesday, February 7 & 8 • 9:00 a.m. -4:00 p.m. 
Selecting NOW for summer 2000 departures! 
Q 

For an application, call (800) 424-8580, option 1 -or­visit our Web site www. eacecor s. ov. 


COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY'S 

Explore our Earth and its dynamic ecosystems! 
Columbia University offers environmental immersion programs at its beautiful Biosphere 2 Center campus in the Sonoron desert of Arizona. Undergraduate students can enroll in the challenging Biosphere 2 curriculum 
• to earn Columbia University credits. 
Columbia University UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAM Offerings: 
¦ EARTH SEMESTER 
16 credits: September-December 2000 January-May 2001 
¦ UNIVERSE SEMESTER 
16 credits: September-December 2000 
¦ EARTH SYSTEMS FIELD SCHOOL I & II Summer I -6 credits: June-July 2000 Summer II -4 credits: July-August 2000 
¦ SUMMER BIODIVERSITY INSTITUTE 
5 credits: July-August 2000 
¦ SUMMER OF STARS 
5 credits: June-July 2000 
Thursday, February 3, 2000 The Observer . SCIENCE NEWS page 9 
Chip used to diagnose cancer 
Associated Press 
DNA chip

/\ new technology that uses computers to rapidly monitor 
Scientists have been dependant on microscopic views to classify 
tumors. Now, a development in genetic profiling, called microarray 
thf' artivity of thousands of 
technology, is helping them make more precise diagnoses. 
genes in cancer cells is giving 
scil'ntists the ability to morn prccisoly diagnose cancer. 
0 8 Drops of genetic material are plotted in That kind of df'tailed infor­
a grid on a penny-sized glass slide. 
mation should one day let doctors rlassify tumors with 


more precision, helping them tailor treatments to earh 
Normal genetic Cancerous
•

patient, scientists say. 
material genetic material 

Currently, doctors diagnose 
'v~~ ~ 

cancer by looking at tissue 
,. . 

under the microscope for cer­tain biological changes and 
~y

by doing other tests. The new 
8 DNA samples are color coded with fluorescent dyes, combined and applied to the panel. 
0 The colored samples will "stick" to any genetic material with matching attributes. 
technique, however. goes 

0 8 Scientists analyze and compare this color 
b(wond thosP rnPthods to look 
scheme to identify the specific genes that play 
at ·1hr activity or many tumor 
a role in the disease. Such precision allows 
genes. 
them to tailor their treatment strategies. 
''You rnuld think of it as a 
nnw kind of microscope" that 
looks at genP-a(·tivity instead Source· Nature; National Human Genome Research Institute AP 
of' the visible structure of cells and tissues, said Dr. Patrick Brown. an associate biochem­istry profossor ,Lt Stanford. 
In today's issue of the jour­nal "Jatun~. Brown and col­leagues !'rom Stanford, the '.\I ,tlional Canen Institutr, and elscwhPre dcsrTibe one of' the first large-scale experiments with th.~ technology. They used glass chips the size of a penny to ktccp track of how active each or 18,000 tumor genes were. 
The researchers focused on diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. a type of caner diagnosed in more than 25,000 Americans each year. They uncovered two distinct forms of that dis­P.asr,, distinguishable by differ­ent patterns of gene activa­tion. By checking records of previously treated patients, thev found that one form was d(),;dlier than the other. 
The findings help explain why two-fifths of patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma 

Link To 
can be cured with standard chemotherapy whilP the rest often relapse or die, scientists said. 
The new technique works because active genes in a cell give off chemical messages. These messages will bind to specific DNA segments, depending on what gene they came from. The glass chips carried some 18,000 DNA seg­ments. representing each gene the scientists wanted to moni­tor. 
So by tracking which DNA segments attracted the chemi­cal messages, and how many messages bound to each seg­ment. the technology revealed how active each of the studied genes was. 
The results need confirma­tion in larger studies but establish an important princi­ple, said Dr. Todd Golub of the Whitehead Institute and Dana­Farber Cancer Institute. 

"It suggests that we are really at the tip of the iceberg and that our expectation going forward is that there will be similar stories emerging for all common human cancers," Golub said. 
In an accompanying Nature commentary, Anton Berns of the Netherlands Cancer Institute agreed patients should someday benefit by genetic analysis. But he cau­tioned that such analysis may not able to predict how can­cers will behave after the ini­tial treatment. 
DNA chips also hold promise for cutting the price of treat­ment. Someday, a DNA chip that costs less than $100 could take the place of a barrage of current tests, said Pat Brown, an associate biochemistry pro­fessor at Stanford who also was part of the study. 
"The actual technology is cheap, very cheap," he said. 
your Future 
Point and CUCk. 
.·ii-hi. ~~~7~~~~~~: 
;;; irrurance 
/ company in the nation, Allstate Insurance has 
•11111. ~o~,J~~n 
· customers and 15,000 full-time agents 

.. and life special­ists in the United States and Canada. Allstate is a major life insurer and insures almost one out of every eight cars in the U.S. Behind each Allstate policy Is a team of over 50.000 



Our <corporate.· aJfic.e .,is. 1.ocated ::i.n , Northbrook, lllfnols> er northwest suburh of Chicago. ·...· Benefits . range .· fron;-i .· .. medical, dental, . Vision, •group lite · insurance; tuition 'reimbursement. 'o qefined contributfon ~1,profit .. shoripg401 (k) plan and · retirement• (pension) 
.r::1an. /i -.·.···. •.•. ·.. ····· .. > . ·,tiljls'.c11J::., •. \r .>'.•···· (,j~r!'
We seek individualswhO hove·excelled In acodemfcs, .leadership •J,:md work , 
·experience. ,;it,Chollenglng '\, ···.. fult:-tim~r; Associate Financial Analyst q:::iportuniti~s j are; pvallable.,tgrM.9y.,grp.dy.gtes ¥fittl 
·-d~gree in; .......... · ,,, ··· ·::< ,,i·:t"·f; , 't '' :)~~: J.:Jtt.· ;c;fi\~,F,inanc:~ 
-~s,> -.-. -·:. ·.--_--,---_.·-_-:-,·-:fas~,...-,.,,_"". ---__---;_'-,,-.---...· 
.... ff.llent_ pay··.•.: c·h w.· .:.:,o.·•··
_If exc ...tf;l.}..... '.E3QQ··•··.·.i.Prt··.·g..:...·.-' ·.·.obJk.... ··P·•·11.. ....'......·•.·.....r;.·
casuot enV1ronr;nen .suppq ~¥· y.statel:"••; of-the'-art techn9logy sound interesting; . learn more about Allst i ' ' 
,,:, :·,~: -~-'.•:··· ··,'_:'•' • ,_.. • ,:-.:•,,' ,. ,,, . : '_·:»;·::--·~ .. 

· qm ca,mpus. ... '°+F' 
-'.. <i.:M~i•••t~e··•·.·.Fi~,,-­

undav:tFebruarv.. .t 
.·,\,;?:.QQpn,7,ti:.QQp,:n:~, 
.,..-·..-.,._.,c;;·•..·. en.terJor~~~t,!n~i.h
•tt~~:~f~1~~d~~t~J:8~~~<:t~ 
~ 

Allstate. 
You're In good hands. 

Allstate is an equal opportunity employer and we encourage men. women. people with disobililfes and veterans to apply. 
Researchers develop new, better AIDS drugs 
Assodaced Press virus levels rebounding, and 
the most common reason for 

SAN PRANCISCO this is failure to stick to a pill 
Powerful new AIDS drugs schedule. 
in development should help Doctors say that simpler relieve one of the biggest doses should make treatment problems of treatment -the more effective as well as free. pill burden. patients from a sometimes 
Over the past four years, all-consuming obsession with new treatment combinations taking their pills on time. have revo-"This is lutionized an impor­
tant step

AIDS care, "We are giving patients changing toward
back a freedom ofchoice
HIV infec­improving 
tion from a in how to live their lives, compliance 
death sen­uninterrupted by taking and getting tence to a away from
tablets."

disease that the percep­is treatable, tion of an if not cur­Dr. Ian Sanne enormous 
pill bur­

able. University of Witwatersrand,
However, den," said
Johannesburg 
Dr. Ianpatients m u s t adhere to a tedious and exacting schedule of downing pills, often more than 20 a day. 

Now, drugmakers are working on new drugs that require much smaller doses as well as better versions of the old standbvs that can be taken less frequently. 
Experts say that if all goes well, over the next two or so years it may be possible to reduce the pill burden to just four tablets taken once a day. 
"Most drugs are dosed twice or three times a day for a reason. Once a day is not enough. The Holy Grail would be to take all your medicines once a day with as few cap­sules as possible. We are not so far from that, maybe in the next couple of years," said Dr. Eugene Sun. head of antiviral drug research at Abbott Laboratories. 
The pill-taking schedule is more than just a nuisance. Those who miss even a few doses risk losing control over their virus. Without enough medicine in the bloodstream, HIV comes roaring back, often generating mutant ver­sions that are resistant to the drugs. 
About half of all patients who initially respond to treat­ment eventually find their Sanne of the 
University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg. "We are giv­ing patients back a freedom of choice in how to live their lives, uninterrupted by taking tablets." 
A key ingredient of most drug regimens is a class of medicines called protease inhibitors. They are often combined with two or three older kinds of drugs, such as ddI and AZT. 
At this week's 7th Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections in San Francisco, doctors described results of testing with new varieties of pro­tease inhihibors. Some of these medicines are 10 times more powerful than the ones that transformed AIDS treat­ment. 
Protease inhibitors are by far the biggest lump in the pill burden. Typically patients must take three of them three times a day -a total of nine pills -often on an empty stomach. 
In the works are protease inhibitors that doctors hope will need to be taken twice or even just once a day. One of these described Wednesday is Bristol-Myers Squibb's drug code-named BMS­232632. 

ATTENTION 
UNDERGRADUATE AND GRADUATE 


STUDENTS 
WORLDWIDE 
CENTER.COM 
PURSUE JOB 
AND INTERNSHIP 
OPPORTUNITIES 
THAT SPAN 
THE GLOBE 


l'\f\1 
page 10 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, February 3, 2000 

MILLENNIAL SERIES 
DEPARTMENT OF THEOLOGY UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

IMAGING THE DIVINE: A JESUS FILM AND LECTURE SERIES 
FEBRUARY 3-9, 2000 ANNENBERG AUDITORIUM AT THE SNITE MUSEUM UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3 
7-9:30 PM 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4 
7-9:30 PM 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 5 
7-9:30 PM 
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 6 
7-9:30 PM 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7 
9:30-11 PM 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8 
7-9:30 PM 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 9 
7-9:30 PM 

FEATURING LLOYD BAUGH, S.J. ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF FILM STUDIES AND THEOLOGY PONTIFICAL GREGORIAN UNIVERSITY, ROME 
LA RICOTTA (1963) PIER PAOLO PASOLINI 
LECTURE AND FILM 
THE LAST TEMPTATION OF CHRIST (1988) MARTIN SCORSESE 
FILM FOLLOWED BY SHORT LECTURE 
GODSPELL (1973) DAVID GREENE 
FILM FOLLOWED BY SHORT LECTURE 
THE GOSPEL ACCORDING TO ST. MATTHEW (1964) PIER PAOLO PASOLINI 
FILM FOLLOWED BY SHORT LECTURE 
JESUS OF MONTREAL (1989) DENYS ARCAND 
FILM FOLLOWED BY SHORT LECTURE 
OUT OF ROSENHEIM (1987) PERCY ADLON 
FILM FOLLOWED BY SHORT LECTURE 
A SHORT FILM ABOUT LOVE (1988) KRZYSZTOF KIESLOWSKI 
FILM FOLLOWED BY SHORT LECTURE 
ALL EVENTS ARE OPEN TO THE PUBLIC. 
THE THEOLOGY DEPARTMENT THANKS THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS, THE OFFICE OF THE PROVOST, AND THE DEPARTMENT OF FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE FOR THEIR ASSISTANCE. 


Thursday, February 3, 2000 The Observer . BUSINESS NEWS page 11 
Stocks respond to fund rate increase 
NEW YOHK 

Stocks struggled to a mixed f'inish \'V(idncsdav after the 1-'Pd(•ral RcsPrv;, 's wi doly PXpPcLPd int11rcst rate incrcas•· did littln to calm ttir­bulent U.S. financ:-ial markets. 
Th;-; Dow Jones industrial average foll :n.8S lo close at 
11,0(!3.20. The blue-chip index rosn as much as 60 poinls in the moments bPl'oni lhc Fed released its dccisiun, then bobbed between positive and negative territory for much of the rcsl or the ses­sion. 
The Standard & Poor's 500 slipped O.H, to 1.409.12, and tlw Nasdaq composite index rose 21.98 to 4.0B.96. 
Stocks gave up early gains al'ter the Ped said it was rai.s­ing its target for the fcrleral funds rate -thr. interest banks charge one another on overnight loans -to 5.75 per­Cl>nt from 5.50 percent. Several commercial banks quickly announced that thBy, too, would boost borrowing costs. 
Higher ratns can cut into corporate prnfits by making it more difficull for companies to borrow money to finance growth. 
As a result, investors Wednesday turned to the companies that arc advancing quickly enough to outrun ris­ing rates, said A. Marshall Aci.1ff Jr., equity strategist itt Salomon Smith Barney. ror the most part, that meant t('chnology stocks. 


Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 

The Federal Reserve raised a key interest rate today by a quarter-point -the fourth inerease since June -in an effort to slow the rnd-hot econ­omy and keep inflation from becoming a problem. 
The announcement came afler a closed-door meeting of the Federal Hescrvc Open Market Committee, the officials who set interest rate policies. 
The Fed said it was incrnas­ing its target for the federal funds rate -the interest that banks charge each other on overnight loan -to 5.75 per­cent from 5.50 percent. 
It also raised its mostly sym­bolic discount rate, the interest that the fed charges to make direct loans to banks, by a quarter point to 5.25 percent from 5 pncent. 
In a statement explaining its decision, the fed said it contin­ued to be worried that the rapidly growing economy "could foster inflationary imbalances that would under­mine the economy's record economic expansion." 
The Fed's quarter-point increase in the funds rate was followed quickly by announce­ments from commercial banks Citibank, First Union, Bank of America and Bank One that they were boosting their prime lending rate by one-quarter point, from 8.50 percent to 
8.75 percent. 
The prime rate is a key benchmark for millions of loans, from home equity and credit card balances to short-
Fed raises rate by quarter-point 
term loans for small business­today's rate increase will be es. followed by two or more 
The stock market had a sub­increases before the end of dued reaction to the Fed's June. announcement. The Dow Jones "The Feel is now on record average closed with a decline saying inflation is its primary 
of 37.85 points from Tuesday at concern," said Wells Fargo's 11,003.20. chief economist. Sung Won The Fed's decision marked Sohn. "This sets the stage, I 
the fourth timo since Juno that think, for more hikes later this the central bank has raised the year." funds rate. Martin 13aily, chairman of the 
The central bank raised the White House's Council of funds in June, August and Economic Advisers, and November -each by a quarter Treasury Secretary Lawrencl~ of point -in an effort to slow Summers, in a joint statement, the economy and keep intlation said they "sham the Federal from escalating. Rcservc's goal of maintaining 
ln today's announcement, the healthy economic growth while Fed for the first time employed preserving low inflation." 
a new disclo­sure policy that it hopes 'The Fed is now on 
will remove 
record saying inflation is 
some of the 
confusion that its primary concern. This had arisen in sets the stage ... for more 
financial mar­
hikes later this year. " 
kets over the past year over its announce­Sung Won Sohn ments con­
chief economist, Wells Fargo
cerning poten­tial future 
Economist says another rate increase is likely. 
But critics said the FAd's action was not warrant­ed. Today's rate increases a r e "premised on an exaggerat­ed fear of 

actions. inflation," said Natio-nal 
The new simplified Association of Manufacturers announcement said the Fed Prosident Jerry Jasinowski. believ.es that future "risks are The economy grew at a siz­weighted mainly toward condi­zling 5.8 percent annual rate in tions that may generate height­the last three months of the ened inflation pressures in the year and by 4 percent for all of foreseeable future." 1999. That growth has pushed 
This statement does not guar­down the nation's unemploy­antee that there will be future ment rate to 4.1 percent, the rate increases but it puts finan­lowest level in 30 years. Many cial markets on notice that the analysts believe a further dip to Fed continues to be worried 4 percent will be reflected in about inflation dangers. January's employment report 
Many economists believe Friday. 



If you are an undergraduate, support may be available for you to improve your skills in: 
(CTinfurn®§® 
IHicailmrcaw 
JJfill]}Dfillilll®§ ® IIB.1lll§§nealmi 
The University wants to encourage study of those languages which are not heavily-subscribed here on campus. So if you are studying one of the above-mentioned languages, you may be able to get support for additional study in a summer program of your choice either in the United States or abroad. 
Application deadline: Friday, March 10· 
Applications and further1nformation is available from the Office of the Assistant Provost for International Studies (Security Building 200). Or one can call 1-5203 and have the application sent 
to their local address. 
.... 0 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

page 12 BSERYER Thursday, February 3, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dome. lN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Noire Oamt'. IN 405)6 
ED1101i IN CHIEF M ichel le K rLI pa 
MA.~AG!NG EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
M. Shannon Ryon Oavid Rogero 
ASST. M'\NAGING En1TOR Liura Pe,elle 
NEWS EDITOR: fim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: Bnan Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAJNT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Daium 
AnVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lun 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Huelat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kush to 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MVIAGERIGENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 
ADVERTISING ................................ 631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDlfOR IN CHIEF....................................631-4542 MANAGISG EDITOR/ASST. ME ................. 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICJ......................................... 631-5313 NEWS...................................................... .631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOJNT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
SroRTs........................................................631-4S43 
observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE ... ....................,, ................. 631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S .... ........................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOT0........................................................631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS...... ...........631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llob,m,er.nd.edu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-to-the 
minute forecascs 
weekly srudent reviews 
advertise for policies. 
online feature, for spe­
and rares of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer
archive.s to search for 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
sratf 
POUCIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and on line by rhe students of rhe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Edirorial content, including advercisemenrs, is not governed by policies ofthe admmistration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverrisemenrs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and deparrmenr editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lecters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and muse include contact information. 
Ques1iam regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed ,a Editor in ChiefMichelle Krupa. 


Now that the primary season is beginning, the two candidates of ideas, Bill Bradley and John McCain, have decided to meet later this week to unveil their plan to revolutionize America: The Fat Tax. Jeffery Langan 
These candidates will propose the Fat Tax as a wav Lula's of solving many· journalvexing problems in American politics. McCain and Bradley figure that now that we have villified tobacco, it is time for the federal government to take tougher measures to improve the health of the American people in gener­al. First, let's look at the proposal. Then, we'll see the benefits. 
After McCain's and Bradley's joint appearance to push campaign finance reform, they were having coffee and the conversation got around to taxes. 
"Why not," McCain mused, "drop the L from flat. That will give us fat. You add the word tax, and you get the Fat Tax." "A Brilliant idea!" Bradley retort­ed. "People could pay a tax based on the amount of extra fat they carry around with them. They could also get write-offs by meeting national fat requirements." They began chanting: "The enemy is fat. The answer is tax. Forget about tobacco. Declare war on fat!" This, they both agreed, was what the American people really wanted. 
First, it would expand the govern­ment's power to show how much it cares for the health of the American people. It would be no problem extend­ing the government's regulatory control over health now that the people had let it heavily regulate tobacco companies. The government could begin suing companies that put too much fat in their food. They could tax foods that are high in fat. They could come up with studies that show how fat is one of the greatest killers of all time. Being good Puritans, we could all glare and look down our noses at people who, like smokers, violate our sensibilities about health. 
Secondly, it would make Republicans happy. The party that is against big government, would have a way to show its zeal with deeds. The Fat Tax would let people really put their money where there mouth is. People would pay less taxes if they weighed less. Therefore, Republicans who hate big government could get rid of big government by get­ting rid of their big bodies. Others, who liked big government, could stay big or get big. You could pay taxes based on how fat you wanted to be. This could do wonders for party re-alignment. 
Thirdlv, the Fat Tax would make Democrii.ts happy by increasing jobs dependent on the government. In order to meet national fat regulations, people would have to go to doctors to get a fat test sometime during tax season. We take our cars in for emissions tests, why not take our bodies in for fat tests. ln the process of getting a fat test, the American people could get their yearly check-up. It would be a way of putting into effect the old adage that preven­tion is the best medicine. 
The purpose of these visits would be twofold. It would give accountants an individual's fat reading, allowing them to calculate the proper tax rate for each individual. It would also allow doctors to give special tax exemptions to people who were fat through no fault of their own, establishing their status as victims in the tax code. Nonetheless, over the years, even these people would have to show improvement in their diet. Thus, the new Fat Tax would add governmental jobs for surveying and administering the new tax code. 
Of course, this might lead the American people to adopt the dieting habits of wrestlers. Wrestlers will go on incredible starvation diets to make weight. Every March and April there might be vast increases in the amount of people going on crash diets and exercising for hours on end at local health clubs instead of looking at them­selves in the mirror, but that is a risk worth taking. But this also might have its benefits. 
Doctors might see an incredible rise in the number of liposuctions per­formed during that time of year. The government could also start the equiva­lent of a model cities program for com­munities that met the Fat Tax require­ments. They could call it the "People In Good Shape" program. The government could siphon millions of follars to those communities that showe~ improvement in their fat readings. 
The Fat Tax would be a great source of raising revenues to pay for Healthcare. Evervone is concerned about the future cost of health care. The Fat Tax would make people con­tribute financially to resolving that cri­sis by making them pay for their culpa­bility in bringing on that crisis. The money raised for the Fat Tax would go to the cost it took to care for people who developed problems related to fat. 
Finally, the Fat Tax would be in accord the concern that the American people show for their health. With all the diet books, health club member­ships and diet programs Americans regularly go on, McCain and Bradley figured that they needed some real enforcement mechanisms to really make these diets work. 
Jeffery Langan is a professor in the government department. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
DILBERT 
IF I QUIT I'LL LOSE SOME UNVE5TED STOCK. THAT'S WHY I'M WILLING TO
~--~ 

SCOTT ADAMS 
----------------~~~------~----_-_::-_-.:::..
~ 
i5
.. 
@I 
t .. 
E 

C 
BUT NOW

A NORMAL BRAIN u IRRATIONALLY THAT YOU 
NOW 
EXPLAINED 

YOU'RE ON A SMALL LOSS IT... JUST THAN A HUGE STUPID. 
OPPORTUNITY. 
PUTS MORE WEIGHT 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"It is not premarital sex unless you intend to marry." 
Anonymous 

----------·----~-----------­
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
Thursday, February 3, 2000 BSERVER page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Thank you for coming 

i\s tlw Dirnctor of Notre name's Career CPnL!ir. I want to lake this opportunity to thank those of you who attended our Summer Internship Job Fair last Thursday. We could not have achieved such positive results without­your loyal and enthusiastic support. 
After compiling our final statistics, we have determirrnd that more than J,200 students atlr.nded the fair. with 80 com­panies participating on campus and an additional 53 organizations accepting applications through our new '·resume drop" system This allowed us to com­bine a strong "showing" from business and industry while also offering intern­ship opportunities for students pursuing careers in publishing, editing/writing, research, television, museums, social services, government, public policy, the environment and more. 
The recruiters were extremely pleas1!d with the overwhelming atten­dance and quality of our students. A numbm-of representatives remarked that it surpassed any fairs they had attended in the last 10 years. Several institutions of Notre• Dame's caliber coordinate career events. but verv few lrnst internship job fairs exclusively. To ,rnjoy this kind ol' success is a rare phe­nomenon in higher education. 
Inlf\rnship programs encourage stu­dents to begin planning their futurn much earlifir in their r,ollege career. Students' hard work and energy writing resumes, exploring careers, speaking with prospective employers and net­working with alumni will continue to pay off in thf• f'uturn. By partkipating in the internship process. even i!' students are unsure about tl1eir future goals, they will learn "lifelong" skills that can be applied to any career search. 
I also want to congratulate the Career Center Internship Team. They did a fan­tastic job organizing the job fair. and I want to thank Robin Sullivan, Paul Reynolds. Rose Kopec and Tricia Ford for their countless hours of hard work. [n addition. the Joyce Center events manager Joe Sassano made significant rnntributions to tlrn success of the pro­gram. Thanks again! 
Lee J. Svete Director, The Career Center February I, 2000 
Say 
something, 
to everyone! 
viewpoint. l@nd.edu 


There have been a string of letters to The Observer lately that have left me questioning my place here at Notre Dame. The most obvious has been Elizabeth Bauer's aptly titled "Do you really belong here?" 
Whether this title is the fault of Ms. Bauer or the Viewpoint editor is irrele­vant. What's really important here is the message that letters like this send out. I can only imagine the flood of let­ters that The Observer will receive in response to Mike Dillon's letter. assert­ing that he, like so many others writing Letters to the Editor, doesn't belong at Notre Dame. I think that Patrick Kelly's letter shared some of the opin­ions I hold, but it did not get quite to the very heart of the matter. 
What defines us as Notre Dame stu­dents? Who really belongs at Notre Dame anyway? 
I've been a student here for five long years. During that time, I've known people who aren't Catholic; they are Protestant, Jewish, Muslim, agnostic. They don't believe in God, don't attend Mass every Sunday, are homosexuals, dress in drag on occasions other than Halloween. dye their hair, weren't born in this country, don't speak English as their first language, can't afford to buy a computer, can't afford to shop at Abercrombie and Fitch, don't have an SUV, live in the "ghetto," are athletes on scholarship, don't drink beer, have never been to a bar, are political liberals or don't like football. 
Many of you reading this letter would feel that at least one of the groups mentioned above does not belong at Notre Dame, while others are perfectly welcome. I've gone out ofmy way to try to name a few things that may be characteristic of people who aren't the norm on campus. Where should the line be drawn between who is welcome and who is not? 
I'm anticipating the response that those who come here should at least respect Catholic beliefs, if not adhere to them. For those people, I ask, how literally and how completely do you fol­low the Church's teaching? Those opposing premarital sex may one day take birth control. Those opposing homosexuality often spend $39.95 on a T-shirt from Abercrombie and Fitch instead of donating the money to the poor. Those praying for peace may end up working for a Fortune 500 company that produces weapons. This isn't a holier-than-thou, "out-Catholic-ing" session, although it may appear so. I freely admit that, as far as Church teaching is concerned. l am most likely less Catholic than you. What I am, or at least what I hope to be, is more toler­ant. 
I strongly feel that saying that certain groups don't belong here removes an element of diversity from a campus that so desperately needs it. I am hor­rified by slanderous comments l hear in passing everyday. We all applied to Notre Dame, we were all accepted to Notre Dame and we all made the con­scious choice to be a part of this envi­ronment. If I personally feel that I belong here, what gives you the right to tell me that I don't. In my opinion, the only people that truly "belong" at Notre Dame are those who contribute to an atmosphere of tolerance. 
Sarah Dempsey Senior, Pangborn Hall February 2, 2000 

See it, then decide for yourself 
It is unbelievable that an educated person should be so vehemently opposed to the film, "The Last Temptation of Christ." Your let­ter disturbs me. Have you even seen the film? Your let­ter never mentions vou actually viewing it. if you have seen it. then you would remember the intertitle stating that the film is not telling the story of any of the books in thA Bible. It is simply a film made by a Christian, based on (and verv closelv following) a· book • written by a Christian. 
You call the film sacrilegious Hollywood liberties are taken in every film. Would you be so opposed to a similar Snite screening of "The Ten Commandments" or "Prince of Egypt?" I seriously doubt it 

Such films. if not purely for entertainment, are created as works of art. They should be viewed as such, and if you wish to criticize it, then do it in an intellectual fashion. I completely agree with one thing you said, "Get informed and 
investigate." People have read about how this film received so much negative publicity, and when they actually saw it, real­
ized that it was all for nothing. Though J often disagree with Roger Ebert, I believe 
his review sums up perfect­
ly how I feel about this film: "Herc is a film that engaged me on the subject 
of Christ's dual nature, that caused me to think about the mystery of a being who could be both God and man. I cannot 
think of another film on a religious subject that has challenged me more fully. 
The film has offended those whose ideas about God and 
man it does not reflect. But then, so did Jesus." Sec the movie; judge for your­
self. 
Chas Grundy Fresbrnan, Dillon Hall February 2, 2000 


MOVIE REVIEW 

Beauty in 'Eye' is only skin deep 
Beautv 
By JASON HAMMONTREE may be in Scene Movie Crirk 
the eye of 
t h e beholder, but the filmmakers also forgot that beauty is jus1. skin deep. They've succeeded in making a surreal and sharp looking picture, full of interesting visuals and creative editing, but you forgot the story. stupid As a result. 

other {get it again). Only "The Eye" can recog­nize the suffering inside Ms. Eris and see her true beauty. Iler inner child is just screaming out, "Hey. serial killers have feelings, too." 
So off the movie goes, racing from location to location, following this basic line; new city, new man, Joanna kills man, Joanna runs off. 
"The Rye" watches "The Eye" follows This bizarre pace. with very liUle dialogue, does not rt>veal anything about any­

"Eye of the Beholder" "The Eye Of the body. leaving us at the end with a is a fine mess of a movie in need uf a point. movie. From what lit­Judd and McGregor sure look good,
Beholder" 

tle the audience is but like everything else in this film. given. what can be there is nothing to be found under­determined is that 
nt>ath the surface. Judd (.'"Kiss the Ewan McGregor plays Girls," "Double Jeopardy"} seems to "The Eye." a Hritish like the Lhrillcr genre. and usually agent trained in out of five shamrocks excels. But here. she does not convinc­counter-surveillance. ingly portray the angst that leads her who uses a lot or hi­chadcter to axe every guy that comes tech stuff to spy on his Director: Stephen Elliott near. And l\1cGrcgor is not much bet­
assignments. On one Starring: Ashley Judd, Ewen 
ter. 
such job, he watches a 
Mcgregor, Jason Priestley and 
sexy young woman, Joanna Eris, (Ashley Genevieve Bujold Judd) sudd1mlv kill a man. But instead of rushing to take her into custody, he quickly becomes entranced by her beauty tget it) and instead begins following her on a quest of sexual obsession. 
This begins more as a passive trek, with "The Eye" merely following Joanna around as she con­tinues to kill. but it quickly develops into more, with l\tlcGregor seeing himself as her guardian angel. prote<"ting her from the authorities and even hersell'. 
These two loners are not your run-of-the-mill spy and killer. They have mental problems, like normal people. They suffer. too. "The Eye" has to deal with the disappearance of his daughter (and does so by carrying on dialogue with the gid in his head); Joanna. as a child, found out one day that her daddy had left her without a trace. The spy guy and murderous girl, both with some abandonment issues, are just made for each 

Making matters worse, it seems the 
budget for the actors was used up with 
the two stars. and we are left with 
Jason Priestley in a meaningless role 
as a bad guy Judd encounters, and k.d. Jang as "The Eye's" version of Bond's Q or Moneypenny. (One wish !'or the year 2000: musicians. make music. Movie stars. please make movies. This means you, Jewel and Jenni!'er Lopez. l 
This movie comes from director Stephan Elliot. the maker of "Priscilla, Queen of the Desert." a very enjoyable film. But here. he seems so interested in camera angles and making the film look hip and ultra-modern, that he forgot what he was doing in the l'irst place. 
This movie was based on the 1980 book bv Marc Behm. You would think a book ,lbout an intelligent spy and his obsession with a neurot­ic killer would work well on film, especially in the effects-laden cinematic world in which we live. But again, the critic's mantra rings true: Bead the book. 
VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 

It's a dog-eat-dog -world in 'Glengarry Glen Ross' 
By JOHN CRAWFORD Scene Movie Critic 
Blake is a motivational speaker. sort of. His job is to inspire the troops at a Chicago oflice, but his tactics may be a bit, well, rough. "You call yourself a salesman, you son of a bitch," he 
says, before going on to question the manhood of sales force and brag about his $80,000 BMW.
"Glengarry 
Blake, played by a tyrannical Alec
Glen Ross" 
Baldwin, is just one of a roll call of liars, thieves and all-around
Director: James Foley 
sleazy guys infecting
Starring: Al Pacino, Jack 
"Glengarry Glen Ross," Lemmon, Alec Baldwin, Alan a 1992 film directed by Jamf's Fnlev and based
Arkin, Ed Harris, Kevin Spacey 
on Davict' Mamet's Pulitzer-Prize-winning play. Following ct group of struggling real 
estate salesmen fighting to keep their johs. "Glengarry" depicts a dog-cat-dog world of suit and ties. gin-fueled business deals and testosterone so thick you can drown in it. 
Money und manhood are kings in this universe. Armed with smooth talk and plenty of four-letter words. the salesmen pursue the business deal. Nothing else matters. 
"Only one thing c.ounts in this life," Blake preaches. "Get them to sign on the linP that is dotted 0 To do that. all is game. Continually bothering potential customers? That's fine. Lying to customer~ That's OK. too. 

The salesmen even contemplate breaking into their own oflice to grab good sales leads locked in the compa­ny's safe. 
"Is there an absolute morality? Maybe," muses Al Pacino, while oozing confidence, cockiness and cool in his Oscar-nominated portrayal of Ricky Roma, the sales­man on a hot streak who is aiming for top prize, a Cadillac, in the company's sales contest Second price is a set of steak knives. Third prize is unemployment. 
Pacino and Baldwin are part of an excellent ensemble cast that includes Jack l.Jemmon, Alan Arkin, Ed llarris and Kevin Spacey. The real star of the movie, though, is the fast, machine-gun dialogue of Mamet. 
Clipped and rhythmic, Mamet's writing, which has graced movies ranging from 'The Untouchables" to "Wag the Dog," bounces and Hips between the charac­ten,. lt is Ping-Pong with words, language serving as a punching bag. Talk is how the salesnrnn wage war. At one point, their phones are stolen, leaving the charac­ters literally defonseless, unable to do business. Conversation is whal makes them, what defines them as men. 
"I swear it is not a world of men," Ricky Rnma says. "We are members of a dying breed." 
Stand-out performances in "(;lengarry" include Padno, who thankfully doesn't resort to the yelling and "hoo-haas" that have characterized his later wurk, and Lemmon. who portrays Shelley "Thf> Machine" Levene. 
As a once greal but now aging salesman, Levene flounders to regain his old magic and keep his job. He is desp<wate and pleading, and while a big deal temporari­ly restores his confidence, he is ultimately left broken and pathetir.. In a world bathed in continual rain and red neon light, he Le, another whose manhood has been chewed up and spit out. 
As Arkin's quiet salesman George Aaronow laments, "I hate this job." 




-
E R 
Thursday, February 3, 2000 page 15 
THEATER REVIEW 
St. Ed's players make dramatic detour with 'Drive' 

Box OFFICE 

-

Weekend ofTan 27-30 
Ashley Judd is Joanna Movie Title Weekend Sales Total Sales
Eris in this week-end's No. 1 movie at the box office, "The 1. The Eye of the $ 6.0 million $ 6.0 million Eye of the Beholder." 
Beholder 
Judd portrays an 

..
2. Next Friday $ 5.8 million $ 39. 5 million 
emotionally troubled serial killer who is 3. The Hurricane $ 5. 7 million $ 30.9 million being stalked by an $ 123.0million
4. Stuart Little $ 4.8 million 
investigator, "The 
5. The Green Mile $ 4.0 million $ 115.2 million
Eye" {played by Ewen McGregor). He devel-6. Down to You $ 4.0 million $ 13 million ops a sexual obses-7. Galaxy Quest $ 3.4 million $ 58.8 million sion for Joanna. 
8. Girl, Interrupted $ 3.3 million $ 21.2 million ­
Interesting camera 
$ 2.8 million $ 72.2 million

angles provide a hip 9. The Talented Mr. and modern look in Ripley this film. 
10. Toy Story 2 $ 2.3 million $ 234.3 million 
Photo courtesy of Destination Films 
Source; Associated Press 

By MIKE VANEGAS Sc,nc Ediw1 
Glaring at everyone making their journeys throughout the halls ol' campus buildings is a breast. 
This breast is an ad venisement for a play. The play. "How l Learned to Drive." seems to be taking 
a  cue  from other taboo  
breakers  - like  a  penis­ 
"How I Learned  infPsted  Student  Film  
to Drive"  restival. Performed by 1t. 10 St. Ed ward. s Hall  
Players, it is  not  an  ode  
. Where: Washington Hall  lo the female breast, but a r,ornnrnntarv about sex­ 
• When: Thursday, Friday,  ual  deviance  and  the  
Saturday, 8 p.m.  family. "llow  I  I.earned  to  
• Tickets: $5 at Lafortune  Drive" follows the memo­ 
or at the door  ries of an  adult Li'I Bit  
who had  a  sexual rela­ 
tionship throughout her  
adolescence  with  her  

aunt's husband. linr.le PP.ck. A r,onversation with tlw play's dirnctor. senior Sean Dwyer. illuminated lh<• reasoning behind bringing this somewhat con­troversial play to Notre Dame. 
"I was looking !'or something that was a modern work." he said. "Normally the STEDS show is done with conwdy. but I didn't want it to be something mind!Pss. l \-vanted something that would also have a nwssage to it." 
Paula Vog<'I. the playwright behind "How l Learn<'d to Drive," won the Pulitzer Prize in 1998 for tiw drama. Despil!1 the fact that the play inrludrs sonw seriouslv maturP roles that must be acted well for the play w be a success. Dwyer felt hP found th1! right ar.tors to l'ill the main roles. 
"It's really a difficult thing to do when you're working with artors who are 18 to 23. !"or the older ro]r>s. You can't do il on looks so much as vou do it on maturity and character," said Dwye;·. "John ArPc1. who plays [45-year-old] Uncle Peck. he really has great instincts when it comes to his acting. He just kind of brings a worldlim1ss and a maturity that rc>ally would suggest an actor with many more years in training." 
Arn,l noted the difficulty in playing the middle­aged charactPr. 
"lt's malty something very different from what I've play;,d in the past." he said. "People tend to typecast mP in the nire guy kind of role. It's the first role I've ever played that is inherently kind of bad." But Area added that Vogel characterized Uncle Peck as a vir.tim. as opposed to a villain. 
Beth Hoffman plays Li'! Bit. the multi-aged char­ar.ter who must deal with the emotional bearing of an incest victim. 
"She's a younger actor. She's a sophomore," said Dwyer. "What I liked about Beth is she really doesn't put up any walls around herself. She works incredibly hard and if' you ask her to give you something in rehearsal, she's will­ing to do it. And emotionally, she's willing to go as far as you push her. · 
"And as a director, it's much eas­ier to bring someone back and to confine the performance. then to constantlv have to draw it out. and make it bigger. The fact that she has to play Li'l Bit at so many dif_. ferent ages and in so many differ­
ent situations, that definitely  was  
something I was looking for."  
Hoffman  commented  on  the  

respect she paid to her character. 
"She has lhis incredible strength which I think all of us are looking for at some point in their lives," she said. "The really amazing thing is that she calls on it and uses it and pulls herself through." 
Dwyer's satisfaction with his two lead actors may be surprising to some people who will doubt the capabilities of na1ve colle.ge stu­dents taking on such tough sub­jects. But be insists there is noth­ing to worry about in terms of being honest to the text. 
''I've been satisfied with the whole cast. I think thev've done rnally well with the material," he said. "It's a hard script to do with actors who have just started their formal training. Even myself. I'm a senior major. but I'm just kind of finishing up the first steps of my training. But I think they've done verv well." 

Of course. he really couldn't do anything but praise his cast. Nor could he withdraw himself from the confidence he feels heading into the weekend, despite the fact he missed the play's last dress rehearsal Wednesday evening so he could attend a funeral. 
"I feel very confident," he said. "It will be a play that the audi­ences will enjoy. but that hopefully will also be something that they can take a few messages away from." 

,. 
I 
I

f1IAI/IJEfl!!l_& 

Image courtesy of Pulitzer.org The St. Ed's players present Paula Vogel's play "How I Learned to Drive" at Washington Hall this weekend. Directed by senior Sean Dwyer and starring students John Area and Beth Hoffman, the play deals with the controversial topic of incest. Tickets are available for $5 at Lafortune or at the door. Shows start at 8 
p.m. on Thursday, Friday and Saturday. -­

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS/CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, February 3, 2000 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Porter leads No. 10 Auburn to defeat Alabama, 77-63 
and N'diaye finished with 10 Indiana's big run, when Penn Baxter scored in the lane, with chest bumps and hand Associated Press 
points and 11 rebounds. State's only score was on a Morris hit a hook and Mike checks. held down the scoring Auburn out-rebounded rebound basket by Tyler Mardesich got a tip-in to make at both ends.
Chris Porter scored 22 points Alabama 45-35, only the sec­Smith. Richardson, a 6-foot-8 it 55-47. Adam Hall stopped Down as many as seven

and No. 10 Auburn used stingy 

ond SF.C team tht> Tigers have forward, scored the next six the run with a 3-pointer, and points in the first half,
second half defense to beat beaten under the boards this points on a pair of free throws his three-point play minutes Wisconsin pulled even at 35 onAlabama 77-63 Wednesday 

season. and two baskets lo give later brought the Cavaliers to a l'ree throw at the 13:33 marknight. 
Grizzard scored 14 of his Indiana its biggrist lead at 37-60-55. by Andy Kowske, who led the
Auburn (18-3, 6-2 

team-high 21 points in the first 20. Morris then made two foul Badgers with 14 points and 11
Southeastern Conference) beat 

half. But he picked up his third The Hoosiers led 39-26 at shots and Baxtor scored in the rebounds. Following form, nei­
the Crimson Tide (10-9. 3-41 

foul of' the game with 4:26 to halftime and Richardson. lane to spark an 11-3 run that ther team scored on its next
for the fourth straight time. 

play in the first half and was whose previous high was 19 put Maryland up 71-58 with four possessions.
Alabama had a 32-28 lead at 

limited in the second half. points against Illinois last year. 8:04 left. The spree included a The Badgers' 9-0 run washalftime. the first team to lead Cotton. Alabama's leading stayed in the game at the start jumper by Steve Blake as the built on their defense and ball­
at the break at Auburn since scorer with a 16.3 point aver­of the second period, scoring shot clock expired. control offense. While Ohio

1998. 

age. finished with 18 points on the Hoosiers' first five points The Cavaliers made only one StaW missed all but one of its
This season. the Tigers 

6-ol'-19 shooting. over the next two minutes. less basket than Maryland but 13 shots from the field.
three losses came when they 

The second or five 3-pointers were outscored by :-i0-14 at the Wisconsin took a 40<35 lead on 
were losing at halftime. But 

by Titus Ivory startf'd a brief line. Thf' Terrapins took 38 Miko Kelley's steal and assist
Hoosiers 87,

... against Alabama. the Tigers 
Penn State comeback, howev­free throws. twice as many as on Charlie Wills' layup and Jon
used an early 17-7 run to wipe Nittany Lions 77 

er, cutting the lead to six Virginia. Bryant's 3-pointer from the away the lead. Once Larry llichardson got points three times. Morris scored 12 points and right side.
After Auburn took a 45-39 ito the game, he was just too Guyton scored seven more in Maryland outscored Virginia The Buckeyes scored theirlead with 13:18 to play, things good tu come out. 
the next two minutr.s, and 15-3 at the foul line in taking a first points since the 15:25
unraveled for Alabama. The 

Hirh ardson came off the another basket by Hichardson 41-36 halftime load. mark when Reese scored on aTide failed to make a basket 
bench to score a career-high pushed Indiana's lead back to Both teams missed their first backdoor pass from Redd withfor more than four minutes 25 points. induding 10 during 13. six shots from the field, and 7:23 left. After a Wisconsinand turnt>d over the ball five a 16-2 run that carried No. 11 
llichardson finally left the after eight minutes the miss, Penn hit a 15-footer that
times during the stretch. Indiana over Penn State. 

game with just over six min­Terrapins trailed only 12-1 0 w1:mt through the net while he
Auburn. meanwhile. made The vktory was Bob Knight's utes to go. despite 3-for-12 shooting. hit the floor.its shots at the other end and 759th in 35 years as a college 
Danny Miller then made two Ohio State scored its next six
used a 14-0 run to put the coach, tying him with Ed 

!'oul shots and Haxter added a points at the line -two apiecegame away. Diddle of Western Kentucky Terrapins 91, Cavaliers 79 
dunk to start an 8-0 run that by Redd, Penn and Brown -toMack McGadney and Scott for fifth among Division I Terence Morris had 18 put Maryland up by six. forge a 45-40 lead and com­Pohlman made consecutive coaches. points and 11 rebounds. and plete a 10-0 run.
jumpers and Mamadou N'diaye Knight finally gave No. 25 Maryland pulled away The Buckeyes led 49-44 afterand Porter made three free Richardson a breather late in in the second half to end Buckeyes 51, Badgers 48 
Reese hit a baseline jumperMichael Redd scored 14

throws. the game. then paid tribute to Virginia's five-game winning 
with 2:07 left. But a 3-pointer_points and !\lo. 5 Ohio State

After Schea Cotton's the fifth-year senior in the streak. 
by Duany Ouany with 29 sec­weathered two 3-point misses

turnover at the other end. closing seconds by joining Lonnv Baxter scored 24 onds left cut the lead to 50-48.
in the final seconds to hold off
Porter dunked in an N'diaye hands with him along the side-points and Juan Dixon 19 for Heese was fouled with 22.8
Wisconsin.
miss. 1in e and raising them over the Terrapins (15-6. 4-4 seconds and hit the second of
The win was the seventh in a
Cotton turned the ball over their heads as the Assembly Atlantic Coast Conference). two shots, with Wisconsin call­
again and Daymeon Vishback row and 11th in its last 12
Hall crowd roared its approval. Maryland. which made a sea­ing timeout to set up a 3-pointfinished the fast break with a games for Ohio State (15-3, 6-1
Kirk Haston also had 25 son-high 30 free throws, has attempt.
long 3-pointer. McGadney points and grabbed 15 won four or five in the ACC Big Ten). The 51 points 
Center Mark Vershaw put up

ended the spurt with a jumper rebounds, and A.J. Guyton after starting 0-3. matched Ohio State's lowest 
a shot behind the arc with 8.5

point total in a conference win
that gave Auburn a 60-43 lead added 15 points for the Chris Williams scored 22 seconds left that missed, but
since 1982.
with 7:40 to play. Hoosiers (16-3, 6-2 Big Ten). points for the Cavaliers (15-6, Kowske rebounded and kkkPd
Scoonie Penn added 13
Alabama, which at one point Indiana led only 21-18 after 5-3). who have lost five it out to Kelley who misfired onhad made just three of its 18 a basket by Gyasi Cline-Heard straight against Maryland and points for the Buckeyes, who another 3-pointer. The ball
won despite shooting 37 per­
second-half shots, ended its midway through the first half, eight in a row at Cole Field bounced under the basket as
cent from the field. They hit
scoring drought on Rod but Richardson, who missed House. Virginia was seeking its time ran out.Grizzard's jumper with 8:01 to only one shot in the opening first six-game winning streak 12-of-14 free throws, although 
Kirk Penney added 10 pointsboth misses came in the final

play. The Tide shot just 32 period. dominated the Nittany since the 1994-95 season. for Wisconsin. which shot justpercent for the game and fin­Lions (12-7, 4-4) for the next Donald Hand, Virginia's 48 seconds. 32 percent from the field.ished 6-of-24 from 3-point 10 minutes. leading scorer. missed his first Even though they trailed The low score backed up the
most of the game, the Badgers
range. A steal and layup by Dane seven shots and finished with teams' ranking as the two best
Pohlman finished with 17 (11-10, 3-6) controlled the
Fife and a fast-break slam five points on 1-for-9 shooting. 
defensive teams in the Big Ten.

tempo. Tight defense, mixed
points. Doc Robinson scored 11 dunk by Richardson started Maryland led 49-47 before 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.Ill. to 3 r-111-at ,he Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The chargeis 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE  '93 FORD ESCORT GT.  Can I get a ...  Instead of me.  
NOTICES  WANTED  AND CLOSE http://mmmrentals.homepage.com  5-SPD, NC, EXC. CONO. 73K.  Time to go to Heartland! I heart  Which is why I'm not invited.  
$4100 olb/o  heatland!  
Clubs• Student Groups  email: mmmrenta ls@aol .com  616-683-6705.  Because he's taking a digital  
LOSE WEIGHT!  232-2595  See Gina! I do write these for you!  character.  
EAT WHAT YOU LIKE!  Student organizations earn  1991 Honda accord EX  
- WEIGHT WATCHERS  $1,000-$2,000 with the easy cam­ 6 BEDRM. '00-'01  88,000 miles $6000  Rie: What's this remind you of?  Who he probably thinks exists.  
BRANO-NEW  pusfundraiser.com three hour  $1200/mo. 273-0482  219-273-8483  Yeah, good show, Rick!  
ON CAMPUS PROGRAM  fundraising event. No sales  Jimmy Dillon can dunk. That  
Your super-convenient dream diet  required. Fundraising dates are fill­ O'Danny's man, You will be mine!  amazes me.  
from a name you trust is coming to Notre Dame and St Mary's! No  ing quickly, so call today! Contact campusfundraiser.com, (888) 923­ Available Fall 2000.4-6 Student Rental House.. 2 112 baths: lots of  TICKETS  Someday, somehow, somewhere ... soonl  Leno talks about the same stuff  
complicated counting! Eat pizza,  3238, or visit www.campusfundrals­ space;  Parking Lot and Laundry.  But he's actually tunny.  
cake-any loo . you crave and lose  er.com.  Dave 291-2209  NEED ONE TICKET FOR FEB.  Rick Sprinfield is makin' a come- 
weight. Get live info-packed book­ 12 UCONN GAME. Please call  back, baby! Just ask Milwaukee's  Oh, that's harsh  Sorry.  
lets, tons of super-easy recipes,  Professor needs 3 hrs. help on  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT  Chad at x3633 ii you have an extra  finest hockey players!  
and specialized online support from  small farm 1 mile Imm N.D.  SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND  ticket.  Okay, Molly's turn.  
..  trained Weight Watchers staff. You pay just $79 for 7 weeks. Start the  277-5328 Email Ford 1 @nd edu  EXCELLENT NEIGHBORHOOD CLOSE 2773097  Thanks for the road trip. Marie! You rock ... and so do your answers  Room 249, we need to play Star  
millennium right-register today over the phone: 1·800-651-6000 Visa,  Living ott-campus next year and  B'NB REGISTRY  PERSONAL  to "If."  Wars in our room much more often!!\  
MasterCard and Discover accepted.  seeking a female roommate. Email  219-291-7153  

 me at ghanlon@dellnet.com  www.thecommentator.com  Foot PLUS foot EQUALS pain.  I swear, we need a 10 in our  
Losr& FOUND  HOUSES FOR RENT:  My house burnt down last  I'll meet you in Jeff's room.  Oh,  room!!  
WANTED  1)925 N. Francis, 5-bedroom, 1·  Tuesday.late last week, !he Fire  I'm not 'invited' to meet you in  Andrea Louise and Mary Louise  
2 Tx  bath, newly refinished wood floors,  Dept. informed me that my dog  Jeff's room? We'll see about that  are the coolest neighbors in the  
- My house buml down last Tuesday.Late last week the Fire  MBBall ND•UCONN Please call  $1200/month 2)520 Corby, 4-bedroom, 1-bath,  (dalmatian) must have escaped the fire. Her name 1s Scarlet, and the  Hey Min, know his name yet?  whole world!!!! day.  Have a fabulous  
Oept. informed me that my dog  Alan 634-4469  $1000/month.  top half of her tail is solid black. I  Didn't think so.  
(dalmation) must have escaped !he  Call Bill at 675-0776.  am offering a $1000.00 reward for  Hey Cathy Maloney -why are you  
fire. Her name is Scarlet, and the  her return. Call Chris 246-1338.  Noah, scribble, scribble,  breaking the rules all they way from  
top hall of her tail is solid black. I am offering a $1000.00 reward tor her return. Call Chris 246-1338.  FOR RENT  FOR SALE  Jump back!  scribble, scribble, SCRIBBLE I hate Bond.  Purdue??? My turn again. Woo hoo.  
6 BDRM HOME.FURN.AVAIL  No more ZZ Topi Kiss at  
LOST  NOW.$150. PER. 272-6306  New Phone Card  Aerobics! We need ghetto!  I think everyone knows that.  Wow, I'm obnoxious.  
Purple caboodle kit w/ acrylic  886 mins. $20  
paints & supplies on 1/31/00. Call  2-6 BDRM HOMES.'00·'01 272·  258-4805 or 243-9361  Aut -hope you liked your black- Lara Croft will most likely be invit•  I can't find LFO posters in the UP  
Rebecca 251-9535  6306  male .. i mean mail pies\  ed to the Decade Dance.  mall.  But I'm done, so it's good.  

__..........________...______,....._,..~--..,,. . .......... 
Thursday, February 3, 2000 The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

Double Jeopardy@ 8 pm in 101 DeBartolo, $2 (No food or drink) Acousticafe from 9 pm to 12 am at the Huddle 
Friday, February 4th 
Double Jeopardy@ 8 pm and 10:30 pm in 101 DeBartolo, $2 (No food or drink) 
saturday, February 5th 
Double Jeopardy@ 8 pm and 10:30 pm in 101 DeBartolo, $2 (No food or drink) 
sunday, February 6th 
French Film Festival: Gadjo Dilo (The Crazy Stranger)@ 2pm, Annenberg Auditorium in the Snite Museum 
-
*SUB & U93 welcome Stroke 9 and Vertical Horizon on March 1st at the Stepan Center!! 
Tickets will go on sale Monday, February 14th at 9 am at the LaFortune Info Desk (631-8128) $14: ND/SMC/Holy Cross student i.d. $16: general public 
* Applications are available for all positions on the 2000-20001 Student Union Board. 

-
Applications may be picked up outside the SUB office at 201 Lafortune 
* Congrats to Anne Abbott for being named SUB December Member of the Month! 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 3, 2000 
.. NFL 
Verllleil resigns, Martz to coach Ra01s 
Associaced Press 
Mike Martz won't let go of' the NFJ_.'s No. 1 offense. even i[ he's now the man in charge of the Super Bowl champions. 
Martz inherited the St. Louis 
R a m s 
coaching job, his first ever, when Dick Vermeit resig1wd on Tuesday. 
M a rt z said he'll still be call­ing the plays, only from thP sideline instead of the press box. 
"That's what I love doing." said Martz. who got a four­year contract. "That is going to be fun for me." 
l\1artz. 48. was offensive coordinator of a unit that avuaged 33 points and more than 400 yards per game with an inventive mix of sets designed to put pressure on a defense. He said he would increase the responsibilities of some of his assistants. wide receivers coach Al Saunders in particular. to help fill the gaps. 
The move is the first of sev­eral offseason adjustments for the Rams. who are soon expected to elevate Charley Armey from personnel director to general manager and Jay Zygmunt to president of foot­ball operations. Vermeil had been president of football operations, while leaning heavily on advice from Armey and Zygmunt. 
Martz is the fifth coach in NFL historv to take over a Super Bowl· winner. and the first since 1993. when Barry Switzer rnplaced Jimmy Johnson at Dallas. 
His staff agreed it would be a crime for Martz to become a supervisor instead of a hands­on guy. 
'Tve never been around a guy that took a more aggres­sive approach to the game," tight ends coach Lynn Stiles said. "Bill Walsh was that wav. but this guy is out or sight. \iVe could be up 30-0 and he would

-
act like it was still zero-zero, and now he's the head coach and he doesn't have to pull off." 
In .one big year. Martz made a name for himself. He was with the Hams from 1992-96 

-

as an ol'f'ensivP assistant, coaching tight ends. receivers and quartflrbacks. /\fter llich Brooks' staff was fired. he coached quarterbacks for two years with Washington. 
Vermeil brought him back last year after the Hams had gone 4-12 with the NFL's 27th-rated offense. Just like lflague MVP Kurt Warner. he had no idea what he'd found. 
f.ive years ago. Warner was stocking gror,ery shelves. Martz's story compares, because his llrst NFL _job was as an unpaid tight ends coach \.Vith the Los Angeles Hams. Chuck Knox gave him a shot but no money in 1992. 
The line of succession was established last month when the Hams signed Martz to a two-year contract that hantled him the job when Vermeil had 11nished lhe li.1,5t two years of his deal. The promotion came a lot sooner than expected for Martz, who was shocked when Vermcit broke the news Tuesday morning. 
Vermeil's advice: "There's only one way to become a head coach, and that'_s be one." 
Martz has had some time to get used to the idea and it's clear he's quickly growing into the job. When the team named him their leader of the future, Martz was uncomfortable at the podium. but on Wednesday he was cool and confident and even cracked a joke or two about his playing career. his family, advice he might get from his assistants. 
Over and over again. he said he was ready. 
"I think I've seen every side of this game," Martz said. ''I've been with the best and th·e verv worst. and I started at the very bottom and right now I'm at the very top. 
"I feel good about being able to handle it and tak1\ another run at this thing." 
This promises to be a hectic, compressed offseason for Martz. In addition to playing a month longer than most teams. he's also due to under­go surgery to fuse vertebrae in his neck. 
That operation had been scheduled for Wednesday morning. 
"Most of the assistant coach­
es out there have already had 
a week or two off." Martz said. 
"Our guys, we just caught our 
breath·." 
FOOTBALL 

Chasing recruits lacks glamour 
By TIM CASEY 
Sports Wnter 
It was 8 at night, 12 inches or snow cover<'d thn ground and they were trapped in a small rental car, hr.ading to Columbia, S. C. 
On their way tu visit a recruit, they felt something ricochet off the side of their car. 
Snowballs. Sevf1ritl people decided to pack some snow togP.thAr and hit an innocr.nt bystander. 
Br.l they didn't know the occupants wern Bob Davie and Steve Addazio. 
Sixty miles and six hours after lr.aving Spartansburg, S.C., at 12::rn a.nL, tht1 two Irish coaches finallv arrived at their destination, a Marriott hotr.1. They had not eaten since noon. and most places were closed at the late hour. ­
So· their dinner consisted 0f a small box of cereal. Nu milk. no fruit, Just dry Front Loops. 
Then. recognizing Davie. one of the hotel workers offered the coaches some milk and bananas that were hid­den in the back room. 
"We were the kings of the world sitting there," Davie recalled. "We were keeping an eye on it so nobody would come in because there were other guests that were hun­gry." 
Such is the life of a coach during recruiting season. 
It's not the glamour associ­ated with people who make six-figure salaries. The five-

star hotels. the fancy restau­running backs coach. was at rants and the cars mean home on Saturday, ready to nothing wlrnn you'rn trying to go with his family to the Notre build a winning program. Dame-St. John's basketball 
There are long days and game. nights in unheard of places. Then the phone rang far from around 1 in 
family -all 'Trn real proud ofthe the al'ternoon. 
to chase 17-It was Davie.
effort our coaches have 

year-olds. who told him But this is put into this. We've got to head to w h e n some guys that can Tulsa, Okla .. to recruiting meet with a
compete."

coaches recruit. Ho ·realize that boarded the coaching is Bob Davie next 11igh t and their first was at the
Irish head coach 

love. That in order to survive in the profossion. they must work long days. That the only way to keep a job is to get players that can win at the college level. 
Notre Dame received visits from 45 players this year. Davie visited each one at their homes. He traveled to Florida. Texas and Calil'ornia in search of talent. 
"I was gone every day that you could be gone as the head coach," he said. 
This work ethic is not limit­ed to just the head coach. The assistants were assigned regions of the country. They evaluated players for months -some for more than a year -to determine which players they wanted to target. 
Addazio, the tight ends and special teams coach, was instrumental in attracting players from the Northeast. 
Through Kirk Doll's sales pitch, the Irish were able to land Carlyle Holiday. 
Desmond Robinson. the 
recruit's house 
until orrn 
minute before midnight. the deadline for coaches to visit. The recruit never signed with Notre Dame. 
Then there's defensive coor­dinator Greg Mattison, whose physical prnsenr.e and per­sonable nature make him a nationally respected as a recruiter. 
"We went up to [recruit Greg Pauly's! school Friday and everyone in that school knows Greg Mattison when he walks in," Davie said. "lie knows where all the pizza lines are. He knows all the faculty members and they think he does a terrific job. He did a great job recruiting." 
''I'm real proud of the effort our coaches have put into this," Davie added. "We've got some guys that can compete." 
That includes Davie. who found out some bad news yes­terday. 
None of the names on the official list of signees came from South Carolina. 

Please recycle The Observer. 
...and the buck stops here-At the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union, where we're for people, not for profit. 
Go team. 
r,f:! NOTRE DAME 
~~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
For People. Not For Profit 
219-239-66 l l 
www.ndfcu.org e-mail: ndfcu@ndfcu.org 
LENDER INDEPENDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY 
-


Thursday, February .3, 2000 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Page 19 
What is a Campus Ministry Internship, and why s1iould I do one after graduation ?  
Calendar of Events  
~~i:/ ~r:;;:-, ··  The Campus Ministry Internship provides an opportunity for recent Notre Dame gradu­ates to grow personally, spiritually, and professionally while learning from and minister­ 
Freshman Retreat #27 {Feb,11~{Sign-Up  ing with fellow members of the Campus Ministry team.  
Monday, Decernber 6 throvgl:l Mii*qay, Fet:irµary 7  
103 Hesburgh library  Q1il  Applications are available now, and are due February 15, 2000. Stop by the Badin Hall  
Targeted Dorms: Badin, Keenan,;..~v,'is, O'Neil!,  Office of Campus Ministry to pick up an application, or to speak with John and Sylvia  
Pasquerilla East St. Edward's, ~~Jrled,Wctlsh, Zahm  Dillon about the Internship and its benefits.  
Senior Retreat (Feb 11-12) .. ~J~~ Monday, January 17 through FritJay;'iFebruacy 4>C> ·m 103 Hesburgh Library , \lo:1-w. "''.'i ·•u:m  It seems like its been forever, but it was just one year ago that I was facing graduation and trying to decide what I would do with myself, at least for the coming year. I had long been interested in going to graduate school, but I had also always thought I wanted to take a year off from school to find a way to live out my faith by ministering to others.  
Notre Dame Encounter Retl'  
Friday•Sunday, February 4-6,.  I never really found any one particular service organization, or not-for-profit, that appealed to me. As graduation neared, I naturally thought more and more about the best  
Encuentro Chicago Retrea, Saturday-Sunday, February Depart from Library Circle Sponsored by Campus Mi Social Concerns  experiences I had enjoyed here during my four years as an undergraduate. I thought back to service opportunities I had participated in, and retreats I had attended and helped lead. I remembered the honor of acting as a Confirmation sponsor for a friend, and the times I helped organize my dorm's Sunday liturgy. Most of all, I reflected on my year as a Resident Assistant in Siegfried Hall, and on all of the wonderful opportunities for friendship and ministry that it had afforded me.  
Rejoicer Mass and Black Sunday, February 6, 4:00 Presider: Rev. Steve Gibs  The more I thought about these experiences, the more I realized that I never would have been able to have them if it weren't for a dedicated group of people that have given their lives to ministering to Notre Dame students. There were rectors of course, and Holy Cross  
priests, and lay men and woman who taught, led retreats, organized service trips, and pro­ 
Pre-Retreat Plunge) Lea  vided music at liturgy. Together they had made my time here at Notre Dame an opportu­ 
Retreat  1K  nity for me to grow intellectually and spiritually.  
Sunday, February 6,f:30  
As I reflected more on this, I decided that I wanted to continue to learn from these men  
Notre Dame Encounter  and women, and I wanted to help them make for others, what they made Notre Dame for  
Monday-Friday, February 7-'1+r:t0  me.  My chance to do just that came with my discovery of the Campus Ministry Internship.  
103 Hesburgh Ubt<"l!Y<ji{  The internship is designed as an opportunity to learn from those men and women who  
minister on this campus, by joining them in ministry.  
Campus Bible Study  
Tuesday, February 8/7:00  This immersion in ministry has allowed me to reflect on the Gospel call to service of oth­ 
Badin Hall Chapel  ers, and on what it means to be Church here at Notre Dame. Personally, this year has  
helped me discern a possible future in ministry. But I already see that whatever I might  
Graduate-Slummt Bible  ultimately do with my life, this experience has given me the tools to be constantly  
Wednesday, fetmJ  involved in the life, teaching, and ministry of the Church.  
WilsonCorrimens  
-Stephen M. Koeth  
Interfaith  
 
Like many seniors currently, last year I spent countless hours discerning exactly what it  
was I wanted to do with my life. My path seemed fairly straightforward, like all the other  
150 accounting majors I would go and work for a Big 5 CPA firm. I had already interned  
with one firm the previous summer and received an offer from them to come back and  
work next year. I had the opportunity to walk into my senior year with a job so I could  
just sit back and party and wait for graduation, right? Well that path as nice as it sounded  
Fifth Sunday of Ordinary Time  just didn't seem to jive with who I was and what I wanted for myself. So I took a long look at what it was that really made me thrive and came to the realization that it was work­ 
ing with people that I really found my true calling.  

Weekend Preslders 

During my four years at Notre Dame, I had worked in the office of Campus Ministry and 
-
at Sacred Heart Basilica participated in a variety of their programs from retreats to workshops to sacramental 
preparation programs. When I looked at the people around me I could see that they really
Saturday, February 5 Mass 

5:00 p.m. · enjoyed what they were doing and did not dread coming into to work every day. I thought to myself how great would that be to find something that you liked to do and were also
Rev. Patrick M. Neary, C.S.C. 

good at. Unfortunately working in ministry really never crossed my mind until later 
Sunday, February 6 Mass senior year because it is, for all practical purposes, very far removed from the business world. Well, for all you business majors out there or anyone else who enjoys working
10:00 am 

with people and feels a calling towards ministry the Campus Ministry internship will pro­
Rev. Thomas P. Doyle, C.S.C; 

vide you the chance to explore this opportunity in a challenging and rewarding environ­
11:45 a.m; ment. 

This year working as the Campus Ministry Intern I have been able to not only help others learn about their faith but also to grow in my own. The internship has challenged me to Scripture Readings articulate exactly what it is I believe while also finding ways to explore these beliefs in a secure setting. I have grown in so many ways both spiritually and professionally through
1st Reading Job 7: 1~4, 6"{ 

this internship. I believe that we have some of the best campus ministers in the world on 2nd Reading 1 Corinthians 9: 16-19,22-23 .• .. this campus and the chance to work side by side and learn from them is a once in a life Gospel Mark 1: 2~39 . " jF~[~~1Cr'. opportunity that everyone who is interested in this field should take advantage of. 
This internship has provided me with a variety of tools that I will carry forth not only into 
any job that I do but into any relationship that I have. It has also opened my eyes to what 
it means to not only work for the Church but to be a contributing member of the Church. I 
think that many stereotypes exist about what type of people work for the Church. 
Through this internship I have been able to wash away those stereotypes and see that any­
one can be a contributing member to the Church body regardless of their background or 
expertise in the field. Also through this internship I have come into contact with a wide 
variety of students in various stages of their faith development, each searching for a deep­
er relationship with God in their own way. The Campus Ministry Internship will allow 
you the opportunity to find out how you too can be of service to others throughout their 
faith journey. Now as I am about ready to reenter the business world I realize I have 
gained the skills that allow me to integrate my faith life into a secular setting. 
-C-AMPUS 

-Clare Sullivan 
MINISTRY 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 3, 2000 
NBA 
Walker's Wizards take down Tiinberwolves 
Associated Prc,s 
In Darrell Walker's home debut as coach, the Washington Wizards played one of their best games of the season and beat the hottest team in the NBA. 
Juwan Howard. playing his preferred position of power forward. had 14 points, 13 rebounds and seven assists and held his own against Kevin Garnett as the Wizards beat the Minnesota Timberwolves l 03-93 Wednesday night. 
Walker, hired Monday tu rnplace the fired Gar Heard, punched his fist and leaped off the bench to reflect the for­tunes of his team. He lost his first game Tuesday at Cleveland. This time. with boss Mirhael Jordan watr.hing intently from the owners' box, the Wizards played with enthu­siasm and kept up the tough defense the whole way through. 
The Wizards nearly blew a 14-point fourth-quarter lead as they went nearly seven min­utes without a field goal. The lead shrank from 83-69 to 92­89, but solid defense forced two kev turnovers -bad pass­es by Garnett and Malik Sealy -in the final 90 seconds. 
Washington ended the game with an 11-4 run that included layups by Howard and Richmond and a 3-pointer by Richmond. Richmond scored 19 points in his return to the lineup after missing seven games with a cracked rib. 
Washington is in last place in the Atlantic Division, while Minnesota Jost for only the fifth time in 23 games. 
The Wizards were leading 70-64 when Minnesota coach Flip Saunders rested Garnett for the final three minutes of the third quarter. Washington then went on an 11-3 run to end the period, capped with Richard llamilton's pump-fake, 3-point leaner at the buzzer to make it 79-67. 
Howard, unhappy when he was playiug small f'orward under Heard. dunknd over Garnett to increase the lead to 14 early in the fourth, but Garnett then led the comeback to make the game close. Ile fin­ished with 22 points and 11 rebounds. 
Heat 105, Celtics 103 
Alonzo Mourning made a hook shot from the lane with 
15.7 seconds left to give the Miami Heat a victory over the Boston Celtics. 
Mourning and Jamal Mashburn each had 23 points for Miami, which snapped a seasun-bigh three-game road losing streak. Antoine Walker scored 35, but he missed a :i­point.er in the final ser.onds that would have won the game for Boston. 
After Mourning's basket gave the lleal the lead, the Celtics had two chances to win. Paul Pierce, who had 27 point~ and 10 rebounds, missed first then Adrian Griffin pushed the rebound out to Walker on the left side. 
He dribbled and stepped back behind the 3-point line, then clanged the game's final shot off the side of the rim. 
Miami led 99-92 with 3:08 to play when Kenny Anderson made consecutive baskets to pull Boston within three. Voshon Lenard hit a put-back to make it 101-96, but he fouled Pierce at the other end; Pierce hit both free throws and then added a 3 to tie it with 
1:28 to play. 
Clarence Weatherspoon's 10­footer put Miami back in front, but Anderson hit another short jumper to tie the game again. Miami called time out with 
32.4 seconds left, and came up with a winning strategy. 
20th Century'1&"'"''

-
Dance RetrQ~: 
Friday and Saturday, February 18 & 19 at 8 pm Sunday, February 20 at 2:30 pm 
Saint Mary's College O'Laughlin Auditorium 
·.. f%i For ticket information contactthe Saint Mary's Box Offic~:284-4626 
BOUTIQUE EXCHANGE 
txclu&u.e e~M,J,i,~e;d $ko.p J,;eucpuYi /J1J,and1-g V;,ni<Uf?-~ Men IJ.. tJ.t/wnen 
UP TO 581/1 DFF SHECHD ITEMS 
M-F lO am to 8 pm Saturday l O am to 6 pm Sunday 12 pm to 4 pm 2324 Miracle Lane Town and Country Shopping Center 257-0701 

VOLLEYBALL 
Brown inks four in Class of 2004 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame head volleyball coach Debbie Brown announced tho signing Wednesday uf middle blocker Kim Fletchn. outside hitter Jessica Kinder, setter Kristen Kinder and middle blocker Katherine Neff to Nolrf' Dame's Class of 2004. 
·· I think it's a really strong and balanr:ed class," Brown said. "They aH have the ability to compete right away and will definitely raise the level of competition for us in the gym. 
"If thev're not starting, then they wilf be pushing for signif­icant playing time and either they're going to be getting better, or the players that they're,yushing will be getting better. 
Fletcher is a two-time 
U.S.A. Volleyball All­Amorican, earning all-tourna­mPnt honors last year at the junior national championships after leading her squad, Team St. Louis, to the silver-division championship. 
"Kim is a solid all-around player, a good passer and defensive player and hits the slide extremely well," Brown says. 
The 6-foot senior at Nerinx Hall High School in Webster Groves, Mo.. Fletcher earned all-metro and all-district hon­ors three times in her career. 
"It's mostly because of the people -the players and the coaches," Fletcher said about her decision to sign with Notre Dame. "I think I am going to learn a lot from them." 
Jessica and Kristen Kinder both earned All-America hon­ors from Student Sports Magazine in 1999, and were selected as U.S.A. Volleyball All-Americans after leading their club team, the Fresno Bed. to a fifth-place linish in the girls 18 open division at the 1999 junior national championships. The sisters and dass val,~d ir.torians also captained Bullard I ligh School to a No. 11 national ranking in 1999, and were honored the same year as the Fresno Bee All-Valley Co-Players of the Year. 

Individually, Kinder, who is 5-foot-10, was a four-time all league selection and two-time North Yosemite League player of tho year. She also was an alternate for this year's U.S.A. Volleyball Youth National Team. 
'"Jessica hits the ball as hard as anyone in this year's national recruiting class." Brown said. "She's very strong, hits a heavy ball and has exr.ellent ball handling skills." 
Kinder, who is 5-foot-9, was a three-time all-league per­form!'r. who recently earned Volleyball Magazine third­team All-American honors. 
"Kristen is a very dynamic player who will give us depth at the setting position," Brown said. "She's a very good left-handed setter, who attar.ks the second ball very well, and has the ability to run anything down and get her hands on the ball." 
Jessica and Kristen Kinder, both members of the All­Stater Sports Class of 2000 Super 75 volleyball list, will be the second set of sisters to play volleyball for the Irish, following Kathleen (1984-86) and Maureen (1980-82) Morin of Mishawaka, Ind., who playr.d for thr. Irish during the early-and mid-'80s. 
Neff. Fletcher's club team­mate this season on the St. Louis Elite. is a 6-fuot-4 mid­dle blor,ker from Cor Jesu Academy. who earned all­state honors her junior and senior seasons. 
She also owns the Missouri state record for total games played in a career (317) and is tied for the state record in career matches played with 144. 
"Katie is a very efficient hit­ter," Brown said. "She hits the ball at a very high point and is a very good blocker who takes up a lot of court. She's tall, jumps well and has a good arm swing to hit over the block." 
Neff was a three-time all district and two-time all con­ference, all-region and all­metro selections at Cor Jesu. in addition to being named to the academic all-state team all four seasons. 
A Street & Smith Basketball Honorable M~rntion All­American as a junior, Neff owns 10 school volleyball records. 
"It's always been my dream to come to Notre Dame. and I'm really looking forward to it," Neff said. "They have a great balance between athlet­ics and academics and it was somewhere I always wanted to go." 
The Notre Dame volleyball team finished its 1999 cam­paign with a 20-9 overall record, claiming its eighth consecutive NCAA tourna­ment appearance and went undefeated in winning its fourth Big East regular sea­son title in five years. 

AfuninPSehior Club 
lhursJOy';Ni'ghf... 
DART TOURNAMENT 
Thursday, February 3, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Irish fail to sign 'star' in Gator-powered recruiting war 
Alabama, Florida State, Penn for 4,219 yards and 36 TDs in signed with the Seminoles. case, they were No. 1 going in 
Associated Press 
State and Texas showed up in at his senior year at Evangcl Linebacker D.J. Williams, the and got a bunch of stars today." 


least one of the four recruiting Christian. ln four years. his team ·consensus defensive player of Lemming also cited theAs Steve Spurrier likes tu say, gurus' top-5 lists. was 60-0 with four state titles. the year from Concord, Calif., Gators' poor finish last season asit's grrat to be a Gator! 
Notre Dame and Michigan. While Florida made a huge was undecided late Wednesday, a reason for their recruiting suc­
Some of the nation's most 
usually in thP top 10, didn't fare move Wednesday in signing 29 He was said to be considering cess.
promising prospects agreed with so well. The Wolverines lost uut players, it paled by comparison Florida State, Michigan and "When powerhouses falter a
the Florida coach on 
on several players. including All­to Florida State's surge. The California, but was unlikely to little, kids get the idea they canWednesday. 
American wide recPiver Charles Seminoles, despite a perfect sea­make a decision until later in the come right in and play,"
becoming 
Rogers from Detroit, who chuse son and national championship, week. Lemming said. 
baby Gators Michigan State, and All­weren't on many top 10 lists -Florida soared to the top when Until Wednesday, Penn State on the first American offensive lineman until wacky Wednesday. it landed highly regarded defen­coach Joe Paterno had himself
day high 
Kwame Harris, who signed with By the time the day ended, sive backs Cory Railey from the top class. no one spectacu­school stars Stanford. Florida State was third on Hialeah, Fla., and Trey Orr from lar, but a solid all-around group. 
can sign Jet­The Irish didn't have a star Emfinger's and Wallace's top 10 Lake City, Fla.; offensive line­"Penn State dictated thete rs of player in their incoming class, list, fourth on Lemming's and men Jonathan Colon (6-6, 285) process for seven months."
intent. 
says Emfinger. They didn't even seventh on Burton's. Burton said from Miami, Max Starks (6-8, Wallace said, "and Florida took"We did 
sign Starks, the son of former the Seminoles 340) from over on signing day." 
get most all Spurrier Notre Dame star Ross Browner, began the day "Quarterback, no Orlando, and Among the Nittany Lionsthe guys we who chose the Gators instead. rated 24th on Kevin Deaton signees were quarterbacks Zac
went after this year." Spurrier question that was a
'They were about 15th -the his list. (6-4, 290) from Wasserman of Westlake Village,said. "A few weeks ago, I didn't problem is they don't have a dif­Coarh Bobby priority for us. " Merritt Island, Calif., and Zack Mills of
think we were recruiting enough ­
ference maker, a 7 in my rat­Bowden. that Fla.; defensive ljamsville, Md. Also, Wallaceplayers to sign 21 or 22. But it ings," Emilngcr said. "They have crafty tackle Kenny noted six linemen who made his
seemed like they all wanted to Bob Davie 
some 6s and 5s and thev also rerruiter who Parker (6-4, All-America team -Jeremiah
come play for the Gators this Irish head coach
signed four quarterbacks.· What shows up at a 300) from Davis of Annandale, Va.; Scottyear." 
are they going to do with al! of prospect's Warner-Robins, Davis of Parkersburg, W.Va.;
With an incoming class led by them?" doorstep for one last-minute Ga.; and wide receiver Kelvin Sam Ruhe of Cuyahoga Falls,quarterback 13rock 13erlin, USA Irish coach Bob Davie said he pitch, came through again. He Kight from Lithonia, Ga. Ohio; Erik Noll of Gaithersburg, Today's offensive player of the planned it that way. Jarious convinced Parade and USA "I hope these guys will all stick Md.: Dan Acri of Harrisburg.
year. All-American linebacker Jackson is gone and Eric Todav All-American Travis together and last four to five Pa.; and Jason Robinson ofDarrell Lee and a flurry of 
Chappell has been suspended. Johnson. a 6-5, 240-pounder years,"Spurrier. whose Gators Swedesboro, N.J.
impressive last-minute signees. 
"Quarterback, no qut=istion from Sherman Oaks, Calif., to finished a 9-3 in '99, said. "If Texas, the winner of lastFlorida came out the winner in that was a priorily for us," Davie head to the Sunshine State. they can do that, we're going to year's recruiting fight, hadRecruiting Wars 2000. 
said. The quarterbacks are Matt The Seminoles also grabbed have a chance for some very another strong year. The"Florida was amazing -lots Lovecchio, Jared Clark, Carlyle two other All-Americans on good teams in future years." Longhorns grabbed homegrownof big names on signing day," Holiday and Abram Elam, who Wednesday -defensive back The four recruiting experts receivers B.J. Johnson (Southadded Bobby Burton of Austin, can also play defensive back. Bryant McFadden from agreed it was a big year for Grand Prairie); Roy Williams
Texas-based-The National 
Quarterbacks Casey Clausen Hollywood, Fla. and linebacker Southern teams, specifically the (Odessa), Sloan Thomas (Klein)Recruiting Advisor. 
and John Rattay, brother of Eric Moore from Pahokee, Fla. Southeastern Conference. and Brock Edwards (FortTom Lemming of Schaumburg, 
Louisiana Tech's Tim Rattay, All-American defensive back Alabama joined Florida and Worth).
lll.-based Prep Football Report made early commitments to the Yohance Buchanan from Atlanta Tennessee with an impressive Two prep stars, offensive line­also gave the nod to Florida, Vols and are set to take part in made good on an earlier verbal signing class. man Jason Respert of Warner­
while Max Emfinger of 
spring practice. commitment. "The South is cleaning Robins, Ga., and tight end EricCovington, La.-based National So is the 6 foot-1. 190-pound Michael Boulware, brother of up,"Lemming, who had Florida, Knott of Detroit, face criminalBlue Chips had Tennessee first Berlin, the Gators' prize recruit former Florida State All­Tennessee and Alabama 1-2-3 charges and didn't sign with any with the Gators a close second. 
from Shreveport. La., who threw American Peter Boulware, also on his top 10 list. "In Florida's school. 
-
Mix it up with 1200 others from the Class of 2000 TONIGHT and EVERY THURSDAY tor 
[}{J@@~lJ[1@[ru@0@COLLeGe nlGHT 
SOUTH BEND'S BIGGEST PARTY 
$1 Co•,;ER (with college I.D., must be 21) V j and lots of other stuff for a buck, too. 
222 S. Michigan• South Bend• (219) 234-5200 Call the Heartland Concert & Event Line (219) 251-2568 More pictures online every week at www.ACEplaces.com/heartland 




page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 3, 2000 
Irish Class of 2004 






Garron Bible 
position: defensive back hometown: Kingwood, Texas height: 5-foot-1 J weight: r 86 
accolades: all-district curnerback junior year 
"He may get a crack at running back, but I think he'll be an even better cornerback because that is where the need seems to be now." 
Tom Lemming recruiting expert 
Kyle Budinscak 

-
position: defensive line hometown: Bridgewater, N.J. height: 6-foot-4 
weight: 250 
accolades: registered 68 tackles and ro sacks as a 
senior 
"Could wind up playing offensive guard but will get first shot at defensive tackle. He could be one ofthe sleepers in the group." 
Tom Lemming recruiting expert 
Jerome Collins 
position: wide receiver hometown: Wheaton, Ill. height: 6-foot-4 
weight: 225 
accolades: ranked No. 94 on Tom lemming's Top 100 prospects 

"He's a great athlete and a guy that can probably fill out to 260 pounds. He can have a great future." 
Tom Lemming recruiting expert 
Lorenzo Crawford 
position: wide receiver hometown: 

Prospect Park, N.J. height: 5-foot-J J weight: 185 accolades: caught 3 7 passes for 858 yards and 17 
"One ofthe most heavily recruited players in the East for his ability to play at wide receiver and cornerback. " 
Tom Lemming recruiting expert 
Vontez Duff 
position: running back hometown: Wheaton, Ill. height: 6-Joot-4 weight: 22s accolades: rated No. 61 un Tom lemmings Top JOO prospects 

"A terrific running back, not the biggest but very quick with great cutting ability and z,ision." 
Tom Lemming recruiting expert 
Abram Elam 
position: defensive back hometown: 
Riveria Beach, Fla. height: 6-foot-J weight: 190 accolades: made Joo tack-Les and picked offfive 

"/feel he is one ofthe top IO players in Florida. He can come right in and contribute in the secondary. .. 
Tom Lemming recruiting expert Omar Jenkins 

position: wide receiver hometown: Dallas, Texa.~ height: 6-Joot-z weight: 180 accolades: ranked 1\10.94 on Tom lemming's Top roo prospects 
"He plays fast, probably better suited to be a receiver because he's not real physical." 
Tom Lemming recruiting expert 
Matt Lovecchio 
position: quarterback hometown: 
Franklin Lakes, N.J. height: 6-foot-3 weight: 200 accolades: threw for 3,267 yards and 48 touchdowns in high school career 
"He's quicker than most people think -he's got a good arm, is a smart ballplayer and a leader. " 
Tom Lemming recruiting expert 
Ronnie Rodamer 

position: wide receiver hometown: Morgantown, W. V height: 6-foot-4 weight: 185 accolades:Jirst team All­West Virginia 
"More ofa possession type receiver. He has good hands and leaping ability." 
Tom Lemming recruiting expert 






Jason Sapp 

position: linebacker hometown: Bridgeport, Conn. height: 6-foot-4 weight: 230 accolades: collected 92 tackles, eight sacks and three interceptions 
'This guy is a terrific ball player -one ofthe best outside linebackers in the nation. " 
Tom Lemming recruiting expert 






-
-
-------._,----,,-----------------------------------------·--··­
..... 
Thursday, February 3, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
at the press conference in his high school. That's difficult.

Recruits 


So the communication process continued from page 28 can be a little frustrating at 
times." -!uses on his fingers from hit­In retrospect, the frustration ting that dial on that phone so turned into adulation on many times." Davie said. "In Groundhog Day 2000. The my slc1~p l can hear that oper­Irish landed all three quarter­ator come on saying 'No one backs they targeted. They also answers vet.'" signed several other top 
But tlH~Y kept pursuing the recruits, including defensive (i-foot-2, 190 pound Holiday All-Americans in linebacker -the 48th ranked player in Mike Goolsby (Joliet, Ill.) and rncruiting: analyst Tom defensive lineman Greg Pauly Lc•mming's (Waukesha, 
Top l 00. They had tar­ "It's open [the quarter­ Wisc.). Now.  with  
ge tPd him  in  back spot}. I think  the  thre.e  
March w11re about  and not to lnl  {competition is] what's best for Amaz. and  incoming quarter­backs, as  
him  slip  Amaz understands that."  well as junior  
away.  Arnaz Battle,  
Yet phone  thr rails  Bob Davie  returning next season,  
rontinllf'd  to  Irish head coach  the  focus  
go  unan­ shirts to  the  
swered,  the  starting posi­ 
oncertainty  tion.  Davie  

mounted and the impending insists that there will be an dedsion kept being delayed. open competition. though 
And when he had made his Battle's experience gives him decision to attend NotrR an edge. l>amn. thosH gathered at his "It's open [the quarterback 
high school knew his choice spot!.·• Davie said. "I think before the Irish c<mching: staff. !competition is] what's best 
"Mis [Carlvle's] mom had for Arnaz, and Arnaz under• told Kirk that Carlyle bad told stands that. lwr Tuesday night, bul Carlyle "But let's face it, Arnaz is a had not told us." Davie said. little bit ahead in the race. 
"We did not know until he He's been in the system and called us, after he had signed he's got spring ball." 
.. 
-
Davie's top three prospects 

Greg Pauly 
position: defensiue line hometown: Waukesha, Wisc. height: 6-foot-6 weight: 275 accolades:.first team USA Todag All-American. Parade prep All-America pick. one of34 on the· lleebok/ESPN prep All­America team, ranked 12th in the Best ofthe Midwest. by Detroit Free Press. voted Wisconsin player of the year by Associated Press in 
1 999 
"J think he'll have a chance to play as a .fi"eshman. You know, he's a big physical guy that I think will have a chancP to help our defensive line." 
Bob Davie Irish head coach 
"One ofthe top three or frmr defensil'e linemen in the country -very quick, very strong, a smart. ballplaye,~ I think he can make an immedi­ate impact on the team. " 
Tom Lemming recruiting expert 

Carlyle Holiday 
position: quarterback hometown: 
San Antonio, Texas height: 6-Joot-2 weight: 190 accolades: rated 48th in Chicago Sun Times Top 1 oo prospects, ranked in top roo high school prospects by Dallas Morning News and Fort Worth Star-Telegram, four-sport letterwinner 

"He brings to us, you know, the prototype quarterback we're look­ing for in this system and just about everybody in this country is looking for now, a guy that can run and throw." 
Bob Davie Irish head coach 

"Probably the most athletic quarterback they were looking al -a very dangerous ballplayer wUh his arms and his legs." 
Tom Lemming recruiting expert 

Mike Goolsby 

position: linebacker hometown: Joliet, Ill. height: 6joot-4 weight: 225 accolades: ranked 20th by Tom Lemming among Top 100 prospects, Parade prep All-American, second team USA Today All­American, ranked 20th out the the top 1 oo prospects by the Chicago Sun-Times, Detroit Free Press named him ninth on the Best of the Midwest list, two lime 
All-Illinois 

"Goolsby gives us a lot of attitude at that position. I was in his home the other night and he's a unique character." 
Bob Davie Irish head coach 

''One o.fthe top 5 line­backers in the country. He's got a chip on his shoulder which is great for a defensive player. Tough, extremely quick and active." 
Tom Lemming recruiting expert 
200010l gains andlosses ··· 
Clraduating seni~rs _ ___ and their Class of 2004 replacements 
. Quarterback losses 
Jarious Jackson 
replacements 
Jared Clark Matt LoVecchio Carlyle Holiday 
Jackson's leadership will not be replaced by three freshmen, but Clark, LoVecchio and Holiday are talented. Considering that the Irish didn't recruit any quarterbacks last year, this year's strong class was especially important. 
. Running back losses 
Joey Goodspeed 
replacements 
Vontez Duff Garron Bible 
The Irish have a strong stable of 
running backs so they didn't have too big ofa need here. 
. Wide receiver losses 
Bobby Brown Raki Nelson 
replacements 
Ron Rodamer Jerome Collins 
Lorenzo Crawford 
Omar Jenkins 
Jovan Witherspoon 
The Irish get a solid crop ofbig receivers. Wfth the exception of the 5-foot-11 speedster Crawford, all are at least 6-foot-2. 
. Offensive line losses 
John Marandi 
replacements 
None 
The Irish already have eightfresh• 
man and sophomore linemen on 
the roster. 
. Tight end losses 
None 
replacements 
Billy Palmer 
The brother of Florida quarterback Jesse Palmer is a capable blocker. 
. Defensive line losses 
Antwon Jones 
Lamont Bryant 
Jason Ching 
Brad Williams 
replacements 
Kyle Budinscak Greg Pauly The Irish lost a lot of talent and · experience at defensive line but Pauly could be star. He registered 17 sacks as a high school senior -just one less than the entire 1999 Irish defense. 
. Linebackers losses 
Ronnie Nicks 
Joe Ferrer 
replacements 
Derek Curry 
Mike Goolsby 
Jason Sapp 
Notre Dame stole Sapp away from Virginia Tech which has been known for great defense in the '90s. Goolsby is one of the top five linebacker prospects in the country. 
. Defensive backs losses 
A'Jani Sanders 
Deveron Harper 
Deke Cooper 
replacements 
Abram Elam 
Preston Jackson 
Elam could be good but Jackson is another defensive back under 6­foot. 
. Kicker tosses 
Jim Sanson 
replacements 
none 
This is a case of addition by sub­
traction. 



page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 3, 2000 
-
IRISH INSIGHT 

Graves, Irish enhance team efforts, gain confidence 
The Irish proved that their roster runs deeper than Troy Murphy. 
With a balanced team effort at home Wednesday night, they dismantled West Virginia 79-64. 
Four Irish players scored in double dig­its. led by sopho­more David Graves and freshman Matt Carroll with 17 apiece. 
.. ,t was nice to see some guys chipping in and stepping up,·• head coach Matt Doherty said. 
In the first stanza. Notn~ Dame (14-8, 

,.. 5-3 Big East) trailed West Virginia (12-7. 4-4) by as many as 17 points before going on a 19-5 explosion. 
Graves and Carroll sprung back from shooting slumps to pace the Irish as high scorers. 
"When you're off. it seems like you're never going to get back," Graves said of ending his slouch with 4-for-6 shooting night. "It was a big boost for me. I think the timing of the :is was big. It made my confidence soar." 
At half time, Carroll was 1-for-6 from the field with just two points in the books.

' 
. 


"Outside shooters. the·court. Monserez.
.I "When you 're off, it 
you just have to keep who played only four 
•. seems like you 're never
on shooting." Carroll minutes, handed out 
~ 
1-
said. "If you're off, the going to get back. It was four assists as well.
. 
only way you're going "It's a well-balanced
a big boost for me. 1 think 

to get back on is to team, and it was a
the timing ofthe 3s was

keep on shooting." great day today," In the second period, big. It made my confi­Murphy said. "We 
Carroll came out with extended a lot. and we
dence soar: " 

15 points for the Irish, had a lot more ener­
•. 
. including two 3-point­gy." 
t ers during a 15-0 Irish David Grave,s The Irish kept their turnovers to a mini­
run. Irish forwanl 
"I get more confi­dence as the game goes on," Carroll said. 
It was the players who sometimes get overlooked who put the Irish over the top. Although Murphy had16 points, he did not score during a 13-minute stretch in the second period. In that span. Notre Dame surged from a 51-44 deficit to a 69-61 advantage. 
"We all huddled up with about 14 min­utes to go," Graves said, "And we just said, this is the time that we need to start chipping back at the lead." 
-· 
\.

,,, 
\ 

A little extra shooting practice Monday may have been just what the Irish need­ed. Doherty held an optional shoot­around that every player on the team showed up for. 
But Graves, Carroll. junior point guard Martin Ingelsby and freshman Mike Monserez did more than just show up. They stayed for around two hours, play­ing shooting games and two-on-two. 
It paid off, as each of the four nailed at least one 3-pointer against the Mountaineers. Carroll hit four treys . while Graves and Ingelsby added two each. 
'Tm very proud of Martin Ingelsby," Doherty said. "Martin lngelsby didn't play in the second half the other night, and he didn't sulk, didn't r,omplain." 
The learn production went beyond just swring. 
A trio of sophomores -Graves, Murphy and Harold Swanagan ­grabbed nine rebounds apiece. 
"I thought David was excellent, and grabbed some tough rebounds," Doherty said. "'Harold as well. We were very active on the boards." 
Bringing down the boards boosted the Irish past the Mountaineers. as the Irish held a 36-26 rebounding advantage. 
Starting senior Jimmy Dillon split time with lngelsby at the point guard posi­tion. Dillon dished off six assists in 27 minutes of play, while Ingelsby added 
three in 24 minutes on 
mum Wednesday, with 
just 12 in the entire game. They also stayed out of foul trou­ble, only fouling the Mountaineers 11 times total. 
Notre Dame continued its advance in the Big East with the victory. At 5-3 in the conference, Notre Dame stands locked in a three-way tie for fourth place with St. John's and Connecticut. 
The uiews expressed in this column are thoes ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


Monday-Thursday 7am-llpm 
Friday-Saturday 7am-12 
1025 South Bend Avenue (Comer of Eddy & So. Bend Ave.) South Bend, Indiana 46617 (219} 287-6966 

tl#tl 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Internships available to work in 
ACCION Offices 
Accion is a micro-lending organization assisting people with no credit history to obtain loans to improve build their businesses. 
• 
10 -12 week program during the summer, 

• 
$2,500.00 tuition scholarship for 12 weeks 

• 
with housing and food stipend 

• 
3 academic credits -(elective) Theo 360 (Business Approach to Social Change) 


Available m 6 cities: Albuquerque, Chicago, El Paso, New York City, San Antonio, San Diego 
•• Applications available at the Center for Social Concerns & CORA Undergraduate office :# due February 181h 
Interviews in March at the Center for Social Concerns with a representative from ACCI0N 
Information Session · February 91 h Room 121, COBA 5:00 PM 
.Junior Business Majors 

Thursday, f.ebruary 3, 2000 
Belles 
continued from page 28 
Mary's win to 1.he women's a.bilil.y to out-rebound Kal.amazoo. Tho Belles finished tl111 garnl~ with 41 rebounds. Matha led the tl)am with 10. 
"\Vr. had tlw !wight advantage with our starting linP-up," Hot>dPr said. "With that advantage. we 11ut-n•boumlt>d Kalamazoo and JlrnL was kf'y Lo the win." 
Anothnr key factor to Saint Mary's win on Tuesdav was the shooting game. The Belles shot 41 pr.n~e11t from the field. almost 8 percent higher than their average. 
"Wo haven't had lhc best shooting game," Norman said. ''But Tuesday we shot very well and that reallv made a difference." 
Nornrn11 lr,d the smring for the Belles finishing the game with fivr. baskets and three foul shots. HoberL~ and Campione both had four baskets dur­ing tlH' game. 
Allhough Llw Ilornds defense pressed the Belles, Saint Mary's managed to keep control. 
"Wp controlled the tempo," BoedPr said. "We ran our offonse, ran time off the dock and kept control the entirn game." 
Norman was also impressed with Saint Mary's ability to play il,; game and dictate the pace. 
"What really strikes me is how well we executed our offense." Norman said. "We ran down the clock and really made the most of our pla~. It madr. a huge differenrn i.n the game." > 
Stouffer, the point guard, helped lead the 13elles in thr second half against. the tough Kalamazoo dffonsn. 
"Jamie handled the ball very well during lhe sec­ond half." Norman said. "Kalamazoo has a scrappy 
The Observer . SPORTS 

KRISTINE KAAlfThe Observer Guard Mary Campione dodges Hope College's Becky Sutton. Against Kalamazoo, Campione hit crucial 3-polnters to boost momentum. 
"'---.

defense and Jamie really kept control and that was a big help to the who!A team." 
Irish 
continued from page 28 
and Graves leading the way with l 7 points. 
"I haven't been shooting the ball very well. but I've still been playing well," Graves said. "Tonight I felt great and I hit some shots. I think the crowd really helped." 
Troy Murphy turned in another solid performance with 16 points and center Harold Swanagan added 12. 
"We had throe keys to tho game," Doherty said. "Get back in transition. stop [Marcus} Goree and have all five guys box out." 
The Irish were able to accomplish all three. They forced West Virginia to take ;35 three pointers, held Goree to just nine points and outre­bounded the Mountaineers 36­
26. Murphy, Graves and Swanagan each pulled down nine boards. 
The Irish were able to knock down some key shots in the second half and outscored the Mol\fltaineers by 20 points. 
"We shot the lights out in the second half," Graves said. "When you have the type of players we have and the type 
l 
page 25 

-
or shooters we have, a double digit lead doesn't mean a whole lot." 
The Irish shot 48 percent in the second half and an astounding 58 percent from beyond the arc. The Mountaineers made just 31 percent of its shots and 25 per­cent from downtown. 
"We were more active in our zone and didn't want to let them shoot the three fin the second half]," Murphy said. ''The crowd gave us a lot of energy down on that side of the floor and we were able to bounce around more and stop them." 
Calvin Bowman led the wav for West Virginia with 16 points. Josh Yeager and.Lionel Armstead each had 12. 
Jimmy Dillon had six assists for Notre Dame and Mike Monserez had four in just four minutes of play. 
Notre Dame hits the road Saturday for a rematch with Pittsburgh before traveling to Villanova on Tuesday. The Irish finished the homcstand with a 3-1 record. 
"Three out of four is pretty good," Doherty said. "I'd like to have won all four but I real­ize how good Miami is and this whole league scares the mess out of you." 
American Heart.

fR~t#JIAlluiF~~ 
..... 
. ····-::, ·.· <<>>.•.•:•··.·.·. <·.·•'.-:-:,c.·. 


·•.·•!t'•§..•'il·•••sµre·•••thing••Qtir··••team···•is•··g()il'lg·•·••··
l,o.give a fl0% ¢ff9p:. Qiving 11()%d 
1s· integral •to the Nottt .IDa.111~> 
tradition. Giving a 110% effo.rt .!#/ member Siervfoe is a1s0/part arid> parcel ofthe Notre/Dame Ft!<i.epfl . 
Credit Ur1jon tradibQn. TO hofl:i bf these th9ughts we would stt11ply/ liketb add... 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
For People. Not For Profit 
219-239-661 l 
www.ndfcu.org e-mail: ndfcu@ndfcu.org 
INDEPENDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY LENDER 



.... 

Track & Field 
/lOam 

.\r.··•. ,;,r;.•
The 1sf250 failsiece'Jve'Yree·:iiJ A[;J..; STIJDEl>ITS.~)lORliJ;{IJ R:REi 
..:.,~•·•• /)ilrt•··•,·•. ';B'..·:L:i 
@ Rolf's Aquatic Center 
r 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 3, 2000 
-
NCAA 
Athletes' courses reduced 
Associated Press 
High school athletes will now have an easier time meeting academic standards lhat allow them to play college sports. 
A new set of NCAA rules will let high schools determine whether athletes haw~ fulfilled course requiremenLs for col­lege eligibility. 
The decision means that manv athletes who had been denied scholarships in the past will now be able to quali­fy for them. 
A committee of the govern­ing body recommended the change last spring, and the NCAA Division I and II mem­bership recently approved the legislation. 
The NCAA eliminated cer­tain parts of the course requirements, giving high school principals more lati­tude in setting the agenda. The change takes effect imme­diately. 
The old rules were much more stringent and allowed the NCAA to determine what were acceptable course. For example. one previous regula­tion disqualified social studies courses that devoted more than 25 percent of classroom time to current affairs or inde­pendent study. 
"We've become more gener­ic in defining those academic criteria," Bob Oliver, director of NCAA membership services. said Wednesdav. 
The new rules require sev­eral things: that a course be considered college preparato­ry, be taught at or above the high school's regular academ­ic level and qualify for gradu­ation credit in English, math, natural or physical science, social science. foreign lan­guage, computer science or nondoctrinal religion or phi­losophy. 
lndependent study, individ­ual instruction and correspon­dence and Internet courses may now be part of the new 

-criteria for core subjects. 
The sports world has been pretty active lately. 
ThP Super Bowl was upon us. College basketball teams are trying 
to get on and off of the elusive bubble. and cur­rPnt and ex-Florida college football 

players 
Brian Churney
are doing what they do best. 
On the
comrnit­
Hot Corner
t i n g crimes. So here arc some random thoughts on the 
happenings in the worl.d of sports. 
Sure. Kurt Warner's shop­ping-center-to-stardom story was compelling and shocking. Unfortunately, it's just like the mainstream press to let this "feel-good" story slurp up all of the attention and ignore the most important story of the weekend. Dick Vermeil restrained from crying for an entire day! 
The man that single-hand­edlv boosted Kleenex's busi­ness kept his face dry. The odds that Vermeil would cry either in defeat or vfr.tory were far greater than were the odds that Warner would throw for 300 vards. But Vermeil, as the ·Rams have done all year, shocked us all and kept his tears dry until nearly 24 hours al'ter the game. 
Did anyone else see Jimmy Dillon dunk Saturday after­noon? 
Another pro football star h.as been arrested for mur­der, and the country is out­raged. Mr. Lewis. here's a piece of advice: Hire Bobby Bowden to represent you. His record of getting sure crimi­nals off lightly is legendary. He'll have you acquitted in time for the Pro Bowl. 
Speaking of that bastion of morality known as Bobby Bowden, it looks like yet another Florida State player has had a run-in with the law. This time, it's kicker Sebastian Janikowski. You know the one who also broke curfew and was excused because he was under 

Who knew Jimmy Dillon could dunk? 
DOMINIC VACHON, PH.D. 
DISCUSSING MAXIMIZING ACADEMIC PERFORMANCE IN GRADUATE SCHOOL: 
A WORKSHOP USING THE INSIGHTS OFSPORTSPSYCHOLOGY 
THIS WORKSHOP FOCUSES ON TECHNIQUES FOR: 
• 
HANDLING PERFORMANCE ANXIETY IN WRIT­ING PAPERS, TAKING TESTS OR MAKING PRESENTATIONS 

• 
DEALING WITH ACADEMIC SETBACKS 

• 
IMPROVING CONFIDENCE IN YOUR STUDY STRATEGY 

• 
MAINTAINING YOUR CONCENTRATION 

• 
IMPROVING YOUR ABILITY TO PACE YOURSELF IN ACADEMIC STUDIES 

• 
FOCUSING YOUR ENERGY MORE QUICKLY 

• 
MAINTAINING MOTIVATION WHEN YOU'RE BURNT OUT 


DATE:SUNDAY,FEBRUARY6TH 
TIME: 4:00 P.M.-5:00 P.M. 
AT: FISCHER O'HARA/GRACE COMMUNITY CENTER 
''international rules." 

Fortunately, the police offi­cer he tried to bribe didn't understand these "interna­tional rules." That brings Florida State's criminal total to a number too high for any of their players to count. 
Attention NFL teams with a coaching position: Bob Davie is still available and he's good. You snatched up Collctto. Why don't you try Oavie, too? 

Too little has been made of how good Troy Murphy is. The performance he put up against St. John's solidified, at least in this writer's mind. that Murphy is Lhe best player in the country. Yes, Kenyon Martin is more athletic and 11ashier than Murphy. Marlin also plays on the best team in the country with four other very good players. Thus, opposing teams must cover his teammates as well. Murphy, on the other hand, has four other role players as teammates. They're very good role-players, but they lack the sheer athletic ability that a Derrmarr Johnson or Pete Mickeal brings to the court. Consequently, teams are able to focus their entire defensive efforts against him. He's putting up numbers that Kenyon can't compare to while being triple-teamed and knocked around like a Bobby Knight player after a turnover. 
Tougher defenses, less help, better numbers. Hand him the Wooden Award. 
Phone Operator: Coach Doherty? Hi, this is FedEx. and we've got a package for David Graves. His confidence is being returned. 
Can someone tell me why Syracuse isn't ranked in the top two in the country. Sure, they have played a lot of games at home and their 
CI.Nfi.R FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

schedule is as tough as a Dan Marino's r.hance to stay Nebraska non-conference with the team. Remember. football schedule. Thanksgiving, when Marino 
They're undefeated and played the worst game of his thev dismantled Connecticut! career, throwing five inter­Sot~nds to me like a team ceptions. The game was that's underrated al fourth. against -you guessed it ­
Jimmy Dillon can dunk? Gailey\; Cowboys. 
Joe Montana's election into Finally, l hope that anyone 
the Hall of Pame was 
''Too little has been

nearly as suspenseful made ofhow good Troy as thfl 
Murphy is . ... Tougher

American 
defenses, less help, 

L e a g u e Central divi­better numbers. Hand sion race has 
him the Wooden 

been recent­
Award.

ly. Did they even need to 
who missed the men's basket­ball game in person on Saturdav enjoyed watch·­ing the students celebrating on the court. It was a feeling that comes so rarely, you don't want 

votr.? The only question was to miss it. Too bad for you. whether or not he should Oh and by the way. I think have an entire wing named Jimmy Dillon dunked. after him. 
Chan Gailey was just named The views expressed in this offensive coordinator of the column are those of the Miami Dolphins last Tuesday, author and not necessarily and it doesn't bode well for those of The Observer. 
Lcral,-d In He Uppi:r Ll'VFI Cf HP Flrcwpr11 
Al Tlw Hislor•ir IUO Crnlt'P Mishawnka 
l-io11rs: Tl1111,s:lr111, rriJOIJ and Salurd . 11 
0:'30-ll pm Plwnc: JKi7-l79J . 

fl1, pmrliff cf fon,-lw, fir,I um/ L, lhe Swiss, is d.,riwd frnn fl1e wcrd "fumJn/' wl,irl1 rnf'c1ns "lo ,ndl". 
rondu,, wm inlrudun:d as a nalicnc,I disl1 ill .~wilH'rL.ncl. It s,pnbclizicd 1111: ruminq lul'llw,, "f familil's m1.J fPiu1Js. Al ll1rn, goll1i:ri11gs b.,auli­lul!IJ cl.,, onl,,J 1cmmi1, pclf.r,11, ,w l'01'fhrnwc1r1•' 1 ag1wlons of rlwl'SI' anr/ cil '" I rm,_,rni, ,I 1., ,r·u,I, cl b, I I ls, lruils. v, 'I' bbln, m, ols, and L11nbco s~ow,,,., w, r, 1J11, .I , n 1111 hll, st lhol q1J1Csl, , ould inJulg, al 111,-ir> l,,isurc Il1m lc,J11J·····mcrn11, ,.11111,i,, bl, 1 -th,-scJJ111 I,,:,Jiliu, cl l,ospiblilq and <J•~•I k.J....i, dill "1iv, m,J w.11. ..._Lw 'I''" d,.,n'I hovr Ir gc k, ,')wilzrr-lonJ to,,,ijc,1;1! 
Tlw fondue! is lmppi1 lo booi IJOUr rrivale p. "f'J· ":\ place le go will1 fmnil1J anl frif'nds." Call 257-1792 or ask 11our server for ddails. 




CIVIL RIGHTS & SOCIAL CHANGE 
SEMINAR 
Spring Break, March 12-18, 2000. 
THE SEMINAR 
• 
An Experiential Leaming Seminar created to provide hands-on exposure to the living history of the Civil Rights Movement in America: 

• 
Travel to Atlanta ,Birmingham, Montgomery & Sehna, the sites of historic Ci vii Rights actions in the 1950's and 1960's. 

• 
Visit students and staff at educational institutions which cultivated the minds and spirits of the Student Leaders of the '60's. 


• Tours of the King Center in Atlanta, the National Civil Rights Institute in Birmingham, the Southern Poverty Law Center in Montgomery. 
• The Seminar connects the past with the future by stimulating ideas and conversation about today's society 30+ years after the Civil Rights Movement. 

APPLICATIONS 
Available at the CSC 
EXTENDED DATE: Monday, Feb.7, 2000 
Further Information: 
Application must include: 
Deposit: $40 of $125 fee due with 
application: check or money order 
ONLY; payable to the Center for 
Social Concerns (if accepted non­
refundable). 

Jay Caponigro at the CSC @ 631-5293 
_::.a 

Thursday, February 3, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
as = 

-
TOM KEELEY 
JEFF BEAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD
FOURTH AND INCHES 
\,JH~.S ~M'i'EijlW~.!~ GET t;MAJ..!jot ! n w>& ••• 'TI\E Sli":,l,IM,. (%0:.l FINO :tT WAS ~'<N(S. F/itUI.-T! -r..e .SIG,.f\l. ! .,E'.S TM£ owe--r"AT l'\ESS\! ,...,...,,..,.,,__ r.;:=-=-=--lir\11«,f,.OP, NOT,...£"! 
BILLAMEND

Fox TROT 
I 
1F YOU'LL l'UST
TtiAT MAY BE THE WAY
I'M SORRY, ROGER, " READY To 
PASS ME MY
OTHER t:,AME SHOWS oP­
MoVE ON I THOUGHi
THAT'S NOT CoRRECT. 
CHECk: FoR
ER.O.TE, SI.IT NOT "l W.O.NT
Tl-4E. 8,l'+(orn DIGIT 
TO Tl-4E THE. <:.II.ME 
To BE A MILUONAIRE." 
$loo So I
$2.00 WAS OVER.
OF Pl IS (C) 5. 
QUESTION? 

WE LET YOU KEEP Rl(:,HT I CAN SHOW
\ 
ON PL.AYING. 

CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  30 Capture  55 Item in a  
Mil. rank 4 Aim 1oWhole slew  31 Sandbag 32 Grilling technique  photog's file 56 "Tommy'' tune 59 Kisser  
14 Atlas Mtns. locale 15 Gas log, e.g. 16 Gillette product 17 Gaggle formation  35 Palme (Cannes award) 36 Norm 37 Type of argument 44 Sprite  60 They're sometimes twisted 61 What King Arthur's knights wore 62 Genesis evictee  
18 Self-help classic  45 Major's  63 It's often  
20 H.S. class  successor  reviewed in  
21 American  46 Ready for the  newspapers  
League color  operating room  64 On the way out?  
line breaker  48 Addams Famuy  65 Homer's TV  
22 Capture  member  neighbor  
23 Open-mouthed 25 City south of Gainesville  49 Human or alien 50 Freetown currency unit  DOWN 1 Collapse  
28 Prefix with  51 Pang  2 Cologne change  
classic  53 Former South  3 Mint family  
29 Madre's little  Korean  member  
one  president  4 Stand for  
5 Clash of  
heavyweights 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
6 Free 
Puzzle by Joe DIPletro

ITS =+:..:..i,.;..;-i-;... TZO 7 Mushroom variety 27 Figure skater, at 8 Actor Alejandro times 9 Ranch 30 Penman extension? 

31 Scuffle 10 Not well? 
33 1950 film noir 11 Eroded 
classic 12 Suddenly 
34 Court V.I.P.'s 
stopped working 37 Casual greeting
13 Hire 
38 Like no-holds­19 Part of an barred sports 
Olympics chant 39 Sixth-century
24 Like pine scent, date
say 40 Riviera resort
26 Certain Wall Streeter, briefly 41 Poker variety 
1T To THE

i 
.. 
CAMERA... 

l 
I 

!i 
i ti. I 
i 
,.J 0 

42 Triathletes 49 Royal jelly maker 
43 Catherine of 50 Distrustful
"The Convent" 52 Trans-Siberian 
44 Log cutter Railroad city 
47 Classified, 54 They just won't informally fly 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Fran Tarkenton, Shelley Berman, James Michener, Morgan Fairchild, Henry Heimlich, Paul Sar­banes, Kathleen Kinmont, Blythe Danner 
Happy Birthday: It's time to chill out and enjoy life. You need to be more accepting of the changes going on around you. You should consider picking up skills and knowledge that wouldhelp you understand a little better the high-tech world that you're living in. The more you acknowledge, the better you'll do in the future. Your numbers: 15, 16, 23, 31, 35,42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 'Irav• el or educational pursuits will lead to romantic encounters. You will be in the mood to get out with friends; mental stimulation will be necessary. 
00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Minor health problems will plague you if you haven't taken the neces­sary precautions. Do not get in• volved in joint financial ventures or lend cash to friends or relatives. 00000 
GEMINI (May ll•June 201: Trav­el and love will go hand-in-hand. You will enjoy exotic destinations that will contribute to the romantic mood that will engulf you. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Busi­ness opportunities must be taken advantage of. You can make profes­sional changes if you wish. Your mental attitude will enhance your chances for advancement 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Romantic opportunities will develop through organizational activities. You can make financial gains through group 
Q 
baam.1@nd.edu 
EUGENIA LAST 
ventures. Tune spent with children will be rewarding. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept 22): New love connections will evolve through friends or relatives at family func­tions. Completing those decoratingplans you've dreamed of can beauti­fy your home. 00000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Kin­dred relationships will unfold through pleasure trips and/or sports activities. You will be in a passionate mood and quite able to use your charm to get your own way. 00 
SCORl'IO (Oct 23-Nov. 21): Your original ideas for ways of making extra cash can pay off. You will be creative in your own pursuits. Don't overspend on your lover. Put the ~ into your own business. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may be confused with regard to your financial situation. Refrain from spending on unneces­sary items. Unforeseen bills may sur­face when least expected. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22•Jm. 19): Self-deception may be an issue today. Take time lo re-evaluate as you may be judging your situation wrongly. One-sided romantic infatuations are likely.000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Steer clear of secret affairs or getting involved in other people's problemi. You should work quietly oehind the scenes or better yet in the privacy of your home. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-MMcll 20): Co­

-
workers may be difficult to get along with. Don't be naive. Someone you least expect may be after your job or juBt trying lo get rid of you. 0000 

Birthday Baby: You are a leader. You will be able to get your point across with ease and therefore build a following no matter what you pursue ~tyour life. Your confident manner and unique approach to every­~you do will be admired. 
(F.leed advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at utroadvice.com, eugenialutcom, astromate.com.) 
~ WOOUmvenall'nssS~ 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
--------~-----------------------------------------------~--------~-------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name 

Address 
City _______ State ____ Zip____~ 
l 
UC ! 
t 
-

! t 
I f -
PORTS 
page 28 OBSERVER 
Strong and balanced 
Head volleyball coach Debbie Brown signed/our recruits including two middle blockers, a setter and an outside hitter. 
page 20 


Thursday, February 3, 2000 
CLASS OF 2004 

Signing day is happy 'Holiday' for Davie, Irish 
ByTIM CASEY 
Sporrs W ri ,er 
Bob Davie hadn't heard from him in a few days. 
No one at the Holiday home in San Antonio, Texas, was answering the phonfl. Frustrated with reporters and recruiting analysts calling on a daily basis, Carlyle Holiday decided he had had enough of the inquiries. 
No need to worry for Davie. 
Unlike a year ago, when he lost the quarterback he covet­ed -CJ Leak -to Wake f.orest on signing day. Davie had his options coveri~d. I-le 
had already signed two quar­terbacks -Matt LoVecchio and Jan~d Clark. So getting Holiday 
would be an added bonus. not a necessity. 
The offi­cial word came down Wednes­day, after 

hqlding a Davie morning press conference. Around 8 
a.m . Holiday made his deci­sion: Notre Dame over Nebraska. 
Davie got his revenge. 
"What happened last year took the wind out of us a little bit," Davie said, referring to the Leak situation. ''That wasn't going to happen again. l will never get myself in that position again where I've got all my eggs in that one bas­ket." 
Instead of holding out for one quartet·back, as he did last year with Leak, Davie targeted some of the top high school signal-callers early last spring. 
In fact, 10 of those quarter­backs attended the Notre Dame summer football camp, including LoVecchio and Clark. LoVecchio committed almost immediately after the 

camp, while Clark waited until after his visit in December to make his final decision. 
With two quarterbacks in the fold, the Irish staff could turn its attention to Holiday. One member of the Irish coaching staff, normally Davie or assistant head coach Kirk Doll visited Holiday's home every week, while also con­versing over the phone. 
They were honest with Holiday -as they had been with the other two quarter­barks -telling him that there would be competition. There was no promise of playing time, no guarantee to start, as Leak was apparently told by 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish climb to bring down Mountaineers 
the Wake Forest coarhing staff just prior to his signing with 
the Demon Oeacons. 

"We were right up front with them [the quarterbacks] from the beginning," Davie said. "I told each one of those quarter­backs that I wanted to sign three. I told them who they were. I told them who else we were recruiting from day one.'' 
Though they had a feeling they would land Holiday, there was no indication where Holiday was leaning. Even get­ting in touch with him was a task in itself. 
"Kirk Doll has got little cal­
m RECRUITS/page 23 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Belles upset Hornets 
By KATIE MCVOY Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's basketball team found the magic Tuesday, upsetting Kalamazoo College with a 62 -51 win. 
The Hornets came into the game with a 7-3 conference record and a fourth-place rank­ing in the MIAA. Before last Saturday. the Belles were win­less and on an 18-game losing streak 
"The ronfidence from the Olivet win really helped us," freshman starter Kristen Matha said. "We found the magic." 
Belles' coach Dave Roeder started the same women as he did on Saturday when the Belles claimed their first victory. Matha, along with sophomore Kelly Jones, sophomore Kelly Robetrs, junior Julie Norman and sophomore Mary Campione led the Belles to a big start early in the game with a 19 -7 lead. 
"Campione and Roberts start­ed off the game with some big 3-pointers," Roeder said. "Wt> never lost the lead." 
Matha agreed that this line-up gave the Belles the edge they needed to claim the upset. 
"This line-up is really working for us," Matha said. "We started off with that large lead and kept it up to win." 
Roeder owes part of the Saint 
see BELLES/page 25 
Fencing at Northwestern Saturday, all day 
at Calvin College Saturday, 12:45 p.m. 


.... 
-
By BRIAN KESSLER Sports Edicor 
Last night, the Irish looked more like mountaineers than West Virginia did. 
Notre Dame was at the bottom 
of the hill,  
Men's  trailing  
Basketball  3 3 -1 6 with 6:29  
Noire Dame  79  left in the  
West Virginia  65  first half and it was  
an uphill  
climb from there.  

A 19-5 run by Notre Dame cut West Virginia's lead to just three points. but a Josh Yeager 3-point­er late in the first and a 10-5 run to open the second half had the Irish tumbling back down the mountain. 
Notre Dame. however, responded with a 15-0 run of its own. Martin Ingelsby drained a 3-pointer with 10:40 to play and the Irish took a 55-51 lead. 
West Virginia (12-7, 4-4) was unable to answer and Notre Dame (14-8, 5-3) eventually emerged at the peak with a 79­65 win. 
"That was a gut check when we were down 17," Graves said. "We were able to come bark and pro­tect our home court." 
"That was a heck of a win." first-year head coach Matt Doherty said. 'Tm proud of our kids. They kept their composurP when they were down 17. That's a big time win. I don't think peo­plc realize how good West Virginia is." 
Four lrish players scored in double figures with Matt Carroll 
see IRISH/page 25 
SPORTS 
ATA 
GLANCE 


Friday, 7:05 p.m. 
National Rolex Indoor Championship at Dallas 
vs. Boston College 
Thursday-Sunday
Sacurday, noon 
s 








