
Up all Night 
Batter up! 
Ever wonder what goes on after hours? 
The Notre Dame baseball team and 
Friday

The Observer sent stajfers out to check out 
Management 23 I step up to the plate to defeat 
the all-night campus hot-spots. 
breast cancer with a special game Sunday. 
APRIL 28, 
Scene . pages 14-15 

News . page 9 
2000 

THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII N0.128 

WE ARE LYONS, HEAR US ROAR! 

The Lyons team was composed of freshmen Laura Cannizzaro, Julie Hempstead, Maura Kelly, Kristen Kremser, Cynthia Lee and Nicole Straub and sophomores Megan Chandler and Beth Shaffer. 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Despite $30M budget surplus, tuition rises 
By ERIN PIROUTEK Associate News Editor 
Money is everyvvhere at Notre Dame. The Generations campaign reached its $767 mil­lion goal 18 months ahead of schedule. The endowment climbed to more than $2 billion dollars. During football weekends the sold-out stadium, NBC contract and booming business at the new bookstore suggest an endless stream of wealth. 
But tuition continues to rise. 
A letter from University President Edward Malloy to parents boasts of "the lowest percentage increase in tuition and fees in two decades -5.2 percent." Although it sounds like the University reached a major breakthrough, each stu­dent still needs to pay Notre Dame about $1,000 more than last year, when tuition was $20,900. 
Notre Dame undergraduates are baffied. 
By all accounts, the University had a financially successful year in fiscal 1999, with a $259.3 million increase in net assets. The University usually finishes the year with 

see TUITION/page 8 

Profs reflect on Elian raid, long-term effects 
By MARIBEL MOREY 
News Writer 
Following the U.S. mar­shals raid of Elian Gonalez's Miami relatives· home, Amerir'.ans have questioned whether the execs-See Also sivn force 
"Miami mayor 
was neces­
!ires city
sary and 
manager over
wondr,rod about the Elian raid" potential 

page 12
for this incident to leave permanent mental damage on Elian. 
"The photos of when they took the child were rather strong," said Martin Murphy, associate professor of anthropology, fellow at the Kellogg Institute and currently research.ing in the Dominican Republic. "This was a vulgar thing and a bit out of the norm." 
Although the pictures in tho media were powerful. 

Barbara Szweda, co-director of the Nofre Dame legal aid clinic and associate profes­sional specialist. said she believes it was necessary. 
"The government was try­ing to protect the kid, and they didn't know what Urn mob was capable of," she said. "I don·t think there is a bntter way [of getting Elian back to his father]." 
"If it's politicized to the point that it was, the govern­ment has little options," said Ailert Brown-Gort, associate director of the Institute for Latino Studies. ''A better way to resolve this case would have been to give Elian a green card and give him back to bis dad. He could have come back when­ever he wantt>d -it would have given him the ticket to come back." 
Although the images of Elian rushed out of the house at 5 a.m. by U.S. mar­sh alls shocked many 
see ELIAN/page 4 

ND, SMC attend WRC meeting 
By MOLLY McVOY Saine Mary's Editor 
Representatives from both Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame will travel to 
Chicago today for the Worker Rights Consortium convention. 
Sandy Vander­werven, 


the manag-Hoye er of the Saint Mary's bookstore and the College's representative, will go as a voting member of the WRC and William Hoye, associate vice president and counsel for Nolre Dame, will go as an observer. 
This is the first meeting that has been open to non-members and, therefore, the first that Notre Dame has been able Lo attend. 
"We're going, not as partic­pants, but as an observer," Hoye said. "We have a number of questions we hope to get answered this weekend." 
Saint Mary's announced that it joined the group on April 3 and sent representatives to the founder's meeting on April 7. 
Currently, the Consortium has 45 collegiate members including the University of Michigan, Boston College and Indiana University. 
The conference includes rep­resentatives from just one fac­tion of the Consortium's three sections, the college and uni­versity representatives. 
This weekend, the WRC hopes to elect the college administrators who will com­prise part of the three-council governing board, assign the working groups that will final­ize many policies of thfl consor­tium and work out a final draft of the bylaws. 
'Tm really exf'.ited about this weekend," Vanderwerven said. "I do hope we come out of this with a more concrete message of what the WRC is about, not what it hopes to be." 
The working groups will dis­cuss the staffing and adminis­tration of the consortium, the 1froccdure for data collection on buyers, the development of a network among university members, the disclosure poli­cies and the bylaws. 
Many of the questions Notre Dame has going into to this weekend will likely be answered by one of those working groups. 
"We're anxious to know what their budget looks like," Hoye said. "We want to make sure it makes financial sense before we turn over 1 percent of our liscensing revenue." 
The open disclosure of buyers that the WRC monitors has been a deciding factor for many institutions in their decisions to join or not join the consortium. Hoye hopes to have a clearer understanding of what the WRC's disclosure policies are. 
"We'd also like to know whether the WRC is going to require all monitoring to be released, and. if they are, what their policies on that release will be." 
Hoye explained that, aside from meeting other university and college members this weekend, Notre Dame would like tu sit down with the cur-
see WRC/page 6 page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, April 28, 2000 

INSIDE COLUMN 



Where are the 
sages? 
Where have all the prophets gone'? What has happened to the wise, the sages and the gurus') Where are the voices that cry out from the wilderness preaching 
reform and penance and peace? Is it that our society locks them up in a failure to respect what was once rec­ognized as a message from on high. or are they simply 
no more'/ 
I guess tlwse questions first arose for mP-when I was taking my first Hebrew 

class and we noted that the AJ Boyd JPwish prophetic tradition 
seemed to die out in the last 
Associate
couple centuries before Christ. No one really knows Viewpoint why, though many Editor 
Christians will assert that 
the obvious answer is that 
with the arrival of Christ there was no longer 
need to herald the coming of the messiah. 
My curiosity \-\'as further piqued when study­ing the Hebrew Scriptures (in English this time). My professor asked us to name modern day prophets. While several mentionnd Mother Theresa and the Dalai Lama and various local sages. he noted that no one mentioned the Pope. Yet. one eminent rabbi has said that the only world figure to speak with the same mes­sage and authority in this age is, in fact, the Holy Father. 
I had begun to consider the voices that speak to us as college students in a materialistic soci­ety, wonder which might have prophetic quali­ty. Certainly not the voices that have said it is better to amass things for oneself in disregard of or even competition with others, or those that have stated as Cain did that we are not our brother's and sister's keeper. 
Neither are they prophets who say {as mem­bers of our own Notre Dame family have) that it is more important to write papers and meet deadlines than to counsel friends or feed the hungry; that the main purpose of a Catholic university is to train financial leaders; or that the awareness raised by victims of crimes such as rape is self serving and that everything would be better if they all just kept quiet about what had been done to them. These are the voices of the servants of demons, not of God. 
Rather I think that, short of the voices of world leaders. we are first called to listen to those that cry out from the wilderness of loneli­ness or true faith in our very midst. Those who speak for victims, those who remind us we are here to be Christians first and students second, those who question the invasion of the profane, secular and material into this, a sacred institu­tion. 
Where have the prophets gone? They no longer address the nations. for the nations have long been lost, but they are addressed to communities and individuals. When we arc ready again to hear the voice of national and international prophecy and wisdom, we know that time has neared its end. But until then we are called to lend our ears to the small voices of our public conscious that will be humiliated by the majority, ignored by the press and belit­tled by our social leaders. For in that quiet call to repentance, penance and peace is the voice of God. 
The views expressed in tlw Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obsen;er. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Laura Petelle  Amanda Greco  
Maribel Morey  Graphics  
Nicol~ HJddad  Joe Muelb  
Sports  Production  
Noah Amstadter  Rachel Protzman  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Mary Margaret Nussbaum  Angela Campos  

Th~ Ob~ervcr (U)PS 599 2-4000) ill publi!!.lu.:d Mond.ty th10Ltgh l-rid,1y cxcepr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of ,he Asi.oci:rn:J rre~\. All reproJucuon ngbrs are rei,erved. 

THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Students injured in crowd for courses  Students back elimination of night exams  
Monday, April 27, 1987  Tuesday, April 27, 1976  
At least two students were recovering at St. Joseph's hos- Student government agreed with Provost Fr. James  
pit.al from injuries they rncoivcd as they attemptnd to reg­ Burtchaell's decision  to eliminate all evening exams  
ister for courses at Stepan Center. Sophomore Todd  and move them to 8 a.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays,  
Hardiman said he was pushed into a glass door by the  according to  Pat Tack, academic commissioner.  
force of the crowd and suffered cuts. At 9 a.m., whnn the  Burtchaell reasoned that if' the nights  were open, the  
doors opened, people started "running, pushing and  students would have  more  time and, hence,  more  
screaming," according to a studPnt witnessing tho chaos.  involvement. in extracurricular activitins.  

OUTSIDE THE DOME Compiled from UWire reports 
Fire report scheduled for finals week release 
COLLEGE STATION, Tx. "This was not an attempt to said an announcement would be When the report detailing the made following the release or the
keep students from being
causes of the 1999 Aggie Bonfire report detailing opportunities for collapse is released, students will be involved ... students to voice tlwir opinions. preoccupied with final exams and Andrew Smith. an associato direc­most will leave town a few days tor of the Student Counseling
Lane Stephenson
later, Service, said the release of the
deputy director of university relations
But contrary to widespread per­report could trigger tragic memo­ception, University officials said the ries and emotional reactions for awkward timing was not by design. somo studrmts. 
"This was not an attempt to keep "It's a difficult time anyway with students from being involved,"said We conducted the invostigation as l'inals, and so we definitPly havo Lane Stephenson, deputy director of expediliously and as thoroughly as concerns that. this will mak~~ it an university relations. "ll was driven possible," Linbeck said. even more stressful tirrni for a lot of' strictly by the work of the commis­With the peer reviow process com­students," Smith said. "It's tough for 
sion." pletn, the investigative teams are now peopl11 close to a tragic event wh11n 
Leo Linbeck Jr., chairperson of fine-tuning their final reports and it's in tho news again, and they have the special commission appointed to conclusions. Linbock addod. to try to understand and deal with it investigate the collapsn. said the Although administrators will decid(1 all." University played no role in setting the future of bonfire during the sum­Smith added that the Counseling 
the report's May 2 rnlease date. mer when most students will away Service would place an ad in The "The date was set because that's from College Station, Stephenson Battalion to remind students of the when the report would be finished. support services available to them. 
Metallica releases USC from lawsuit 
LOS ANGELES 
The University of Southern California has been released from Metallica's lawsuit regarding Napster, Inc., after the university instituted a partial ban on the mp3 music-sharing software last rriday, Metallica lawyer Howard King said. King said he hoped other universities would follow the precedent set by USC. Yale and Indiana universities. all of which instituted tempo­rary bans on Napster pending the outcome of the suit, in which all three were initially named. "[We would ask] the rest of the universities Ito] please look at these three leading universities, see what they did and why they did it and consider whether or not you should do the right thing also," King said. "If you're asking me (ill the implication [isl there that there's going to be other lawsuits, the answer is: possibly." There is alrnady one other lawsuit, filed Tuesday by rapper Dr. Dre in the 
U.S. District Court in Los Angeles. "If it turns out that there arc people who have huge hard drives and actual­ly are downloading copyrighted materials and transmit­ting ltheml on the internet, we may very well go after them because they are engaged in theft," King told ZDNet News. 
Maryland colleges censor papers 
TOWSON, Md. 

First Amendment rights have come into question this semester as some college newspapers in Maryland have faced opposition from school administrators rnacting to material printed in the publications. Administrators at Mount Saint Mary's College in Emmitsburg and Morgan State University in Baltimore have taken serious action against student newspapers. Oflicials at MSU blocked the Spokesman from printing one recent issue and William Lawbaugh, faculty adviser of the Mount St. Mary's Mountain Echo, was sent two letters of reprimand and had a raise withheld until lw could prove he would "serve the college as a responsible teacher of' journal­ism." At Goucher College in February, soveral stacks of the student newspaper were stolen and burned in protest of a controversial article. "Most colleges and universities are embarrassed to be labeled as a censor, but in a lot of cases that's what they do," said Mark Goodman, execu­tive director of the Student Law Press Association. Officials of the Mountain Echo believe the sanctions against its adviser stem from perceived improper or lewd material published in the pap<1r. One such advertisement claimed the I lolocaust never happened. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 D a:y South B Elld Forea!ISI: 
~ !om:ast for dayt.ine a:n:litirns anhigJ tmperabJres 

The AccuWeather" forecast for noon, Friday, April 28. 30s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day 
, 40s 
\ 

40s _ v.~­
!',,....~~#,,. j 
/ H L 
! I 
Friday· ~69 43 

50s 
60s 70
Saturday ~ 63 44 

3~~0·.~; 
~~ ~J
Sunday L:167 47 
60s 
' '\:>' ~ 40s so,~ 90s FRONTS 
~J
70s ......-.,-..._.._ ..........
Monday ~ 64 43 

t= 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATfONAR'r' 
-----~------­
. . CJ CJ . . 'W,s,"
Tuesday U 60 40 

High Low Showers Rain T-storms Flurries Snow lee Pt Cloudy ~oudy 
Atlarita 71 52 Las Vegas 85 58 Portland 57 43 Baltimore 66 52 Memphis 80 55 Rapid City 70 44 Boston 56 45 Miami 83 70 Sacramento 67 44
q_Q_Ac!f.+6.;}Q . ~ u 
Chicago 68 44 New York 60 52 Tampa 81 60
Snowers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow fee Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 84 63 Philadelphia 69 54 Wash DC 67 52
Via k,5ocm1ed Press GraphicsNel 

Friday, April 28, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Leckey: Wo111en's roles expanding in Church, parishes 
Bv MOLLY McVOY Sainr Mary's EJicm 
The Convergence panel at Sn int Mary's will draft a char­ter for women in the Church in tlw new millennium this weck­Pnd. Tim annual conference will addr,,ss women and their rnlli in tlw Catholic Church 
Dolor('S Le('kPy. onP of' the Madel1wa lnctLJrPrs who will be rnturning lhis Wl'Pkend, sct\S wonrnn's roles expanding in the American Church. 
"What's happening today is that tlwrn is a scnsP of many doors opening !'or women In the Church," she said. "Today, which was not lhP case in the past, diocesan agencies are as likely to be run by women as men." 
Women serve on marriage tribunals. and more and more have become canon lawyers. These women am leading prayer services, and in some placPs, carrying oul limited sacramental roles. In Alaska, ror example. wonrnn are per­forming f\mnrals. Leckey said. 
Although the prit-isthood is not an option for women in the Catholic Church, Lcck11v sens both religious and lay .;omen as having an integral role in parish lii'e. 
''Women am taking on many more administrative roles in the Church today," Lcckey 
explained. "Eighty-five percent ui' parish lay ministers are women." 
Women played a role in the foundation of the Church and their roles will continue to grow, according to Leckey. 
"Women built the many infrastructures of tlrn Church in the United States, such as tlw hospitals and the schools." she said. "Since the Sncond Vatican Council, they have been very involved in parish life as well." 
Mary Doak, an assistant pro­fessor of theology at Notre Dame, agrees that women have played a major part in shaping the faith in the Catholic Church. 

"The faith that we have has been passed down to us pri­marily by many groups of women," she said. 
However, she sees women's roles as somewhat limited by leaders of the Church today, 
"It's sort of ironic," Doak said. "We inheritnd a tradition of allowing expanded roles for women outside the home, and now, in the Unitnd States, we [the Catholic Church] are viewed as the ones that are limiting women." 
Leckey sees more options available for women today, but agrees that tho effort to encourage women to take lead­ership positions in the Church has declined in recent years. 
"There needs to be more energetic efforts by bishops to evoke the gifts of women in the Church," Leckey said. "The bishops are smart enough to know, however, that they can't run their diocese without these women." 
As Convergence approaches, Lockey secs Saint Mary's as an institution which has the unique ability to not only pro­duce leaders with a strong Catholic background, but women leaders with t.hat f'oun­dation. 
"We have a lot of data that women's educational institu­tions are fertile ground for women leaders," she said. "I have run into young women who have a lot of ideal and dedication. Combine that with talent, and you have a pow<~r­l'ul resource." 

SMC Board of Trustees 
•
arrives on campus 
THE LAST CHANCE TO REGISTER YOUR CLUB FDR NEXT YEAR JS___ 




TODAY! 
11:00 AM -7:00 PM 
CLUB RESOURCE CENTER 314 LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
DON'T FORGET TO BRING 
STUDENTORGANIZATIONREGISTRATIONFORM A.FS APPLICATION SOCIALSPACE SURVEY 
Summer Storage * 
No need to take your sweaters, coats & comforters home for the summer !!! 
St. Michael's Laundry Summer Storage Program * 
* 
begins MondayApril 17 -May 12, 2000 Bring all items to be cleaned & stored to the Bundle Distribution Center (on campus). All stored items must be cleaned at the normal (over-the-counter) processing charge plus a $7.00 storage fee. 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Saine Mary's News Editor 
The Saint Mary's Board of Trustees members will arrive on campus approve the budget for next year, present a strategic planning prgress report and report on the progress of the Master Plan. 
Saint Mary's role in the debate over sweatshop labor will not be discussed. 
"The trustees are aware of the WHC [Worker Rights Consortium] decision but that is not on the agenda," Eldred said. "The Master Plan is an ongoing item that the trustees will be discussing for the next several years." 
Senior Manuela Hernandez, the outgoing Student Trustee, will present the composition of the new Board of Governance and recount the events of the first annual Midnight Madness at her Student Life committee meeting. 
The Student Life committee has the largest number of' Board members and involves faculty and students from the Residence Hall Association and other organizations. 
"[The trustees] want more interaction with the students," Hernandez said. "We'll be having a discussion about how Saint Mary's is preparing for the future." 
Hernandez also said that Linda Timm, vice president for Student Affairs, would be giving a presentation about 
Student  Affairs  at  the  
Saturday  meeting  of  the  
Board.  

Eldred also usually gives a report on the status of admis­sions at each meeting, dis­cussing the class size and how Saint Mary's is doing in com­parison to past years, Hernandez said. 
Committee meetings will be held today, to be followed by a meeting of the entire Board. The Board will present the committees' information Saturday in Stapleton Lounge. 

Make 
THE OBSERVER 
apart ofyour day. 
You may apply these charges to:
* your student account* your laundry contract *
* *or next semester's laundry contract 
Please call 631-7565 for additional information* 
page 4 71;e Observer . NEWS Friday, April 28, 2000 

Associated Press 
MIAMI 
!Vliami Mayor Joo Carollo firPd the city ma1iager Thursday. just days after he demanded the man dismiss the police chief for failing tu warn the mayor about the raid to seize Elian Gonzalez. 
Carollo had asked City Manager Donald Warshaw to fire Police Chief William O'Brien, saying he "lost all confidence" in the chief for not telling him that federal agents were about to raid the Gonzalez household early Saturday. Warshaw refused. 
Carollo insisted Thursday that Warshaw's firing had nothing to do with "little Elian." Carollo said Warshaw has been criticiz­ing him, lying and trying to turn department heads against him. 
The seizure of the 6-year-old Cuban boy has plunged City Hall into political turmoil. Only the city manager can fire the police chief. and Warshaw's refusal set the stage for the confrontation at a City Commission meeting Thursday night. 
Warshaw. who preceded O'Brien as chief, shook his head with a look of disgust as Carollo spokr-. Thr, city commission can 
overturn Carollo"s docision ii' four out. of five commissioners \'Ote to do so. 
"This is a painful thing to watd,. obviously," Warshaw said afterwards. "i'm sad for all that's happening in our city. Plf'ase be c-alm, the eyrs of the world arc watching us." 
Ilours after Elian was taking from the home of his Miami rel­atives, Carolin said of O'Brien "If I had that power ... I would !ire him." 
The police chief had an hour of advance notice of the 5:15 
a.m. raid. but has said he didn't want to tip off the mayor, who unlike O'Brien is Cuban­American and had openly sided with the Cuban boy's :vliami rel­atives. 
w~~ ~~e-\, wttt\" 
~(M:a~t~p~ 
Zoomcultureocom 
i, h,rir,l! fiel.J rep, te Nlptur-e :,tu.leilt l,fe 0"vi.!e0, ,,el'I ~<l..,pu~ er 'lw-1.Ywhere t;fe t<!IC.e:, Jl'0u, 
apply at: 
www.zoomculture.com/internship 
FREE REFILL 
On Popcorn & Soft Drinks! 
ALL STADIUM SEATING • ALL DIGITAL SOUND 
SHOWPLACE 16 
Just West of Main St. on Chi 
tudents and Seniors $ 
All Time., for April 28-May I Only 
. Where the Heart ls (PG-13) Digital 
. I12:501 3:50 6:50 9:30 (1:45] 4:40 7:30 10:10 Flinlstones: Viva Rock Vegas (PG-1.3) Digital [12:10 2:201 4:30 6:45 9:15 Frequen9 (PG-13) Digital 12:15] 4.50 7:40 10:15 . Scream 3 (R) Digital 112:15 2:501 5:30 8:10 10:40 . U-571 (PG-13) Digital 112:00 2:401 5:15 7:50 I0:30 
II:llOI 4:00 7:00 9:40 
Love & Basketball (PG-13) Digital 11:201 4:20 7:10 9:50 
·. Keeping the Faith (PG-13 l Digital
• 11:101 4:15 7:15 10:00 
--------...--....... 
SCOTTSDALE 6 
Scottsdale Mall• 299--6063 
Whole Nine Yards  (R)  
11: IOI 4:20 7:00 9:50  
Angela's Ashes  (Rl  
[ 1:30/ 4:50 8: IO  
Toy Story 2  
fl:001 4:10 6:30 9:00  

Sat .. Sun.• & Monday Matinees in Brackets : 
28 Days (PG-13) Digital[1:401 4:45 7:20 9:45 American Psycho tRl Digital
[2:30! 5:20 8:00 10:25 Rules of Engagement (R) Digital [150] 5:00 745 10:35 Road to El Dorado (PG) Digital [12:05 2:10] 4:25 6:30 . Return to Me (PG-13) Digital · [1:3014:106:'55 9:35 Final Destination (Rl Digiial : 12:251 5:25 8:05 10:20 Erin Brockovich (R) Digital • 12:00J 5:05* 7:55 I0:4'i 
*No "ihow Tue. Ma) 2nd & Wl-"fl. Mav Jrd G~ip IRl. Digital ; 9:20 
ONLY $1 00 All Shows Before 6 pm
• E\'eryone • Everyday $150 All Evening ShOW11 ~7 6.. 
Bicentennial Man (PG) 
[12:SO! 4:00 !l:50 9:40 
Galaxy Quest (PG) 
[U0J 4:40 7:10 9:30 
The Green Mile (R) 
[ I 2:40I 4:30 8:20 
Elian 
continued from page I 
Aml'rica11s, Lhis mdhocl of aggrrssion is not all that rarn. 
"Every midsizod polirn departmt•nt has u SW!\T team and they storm houses with kids prcsrnt during drug raids." said Brrnvn-(iort. 
The go,nrnmcnt also did not know wlrnther thti Gonzalez family had guns in Lhe houso, and agcnls needed to be preparnd. said Brown­Gort. 
''llalf the houses in this country lrnve guns," he said. 
Elian is now with this fatlwr, but his futurn is less certain. 
The mental damag<\ from this nxprrionco is yd to be seen. 
"Tlrn poor diild has suf­l'ernd · from tho loss ol' his mother, has IH\nn manipulat­ed in Miami and will be manipulatnd in llavana," Murphy said. 
"In Miami, he is tlw baby Jesus and in Ilnvana, he is [La Lin /\mPriran revolution­ary loader! Cho Cuovara junior." 
Elian's mnntal condition will also be determi1wd by his return to Cuba. 
"Much [of' his fate] dnp,rnds on how lhey trnat him in Cuha," Ylurphy said. 
Brown-Gort and Szweda sympathize with Elian's 
father and his eagern,•ss to be reunited with his son. 
"As a f'athrr, I have an obligation to my family that is higlwr than rny govt•rn­meni. I.caving my child with distant r<!lativcs is not th1\ pnrfect lit,'" said Brown-Gort. 
Szwnda comnrnnds Elian's father's determination to gPt his son back even with the use of U.S. Marshals. 
"!low horrible !'or a parcnt to be denied their child by a distant relative," said Szwoda. 
Flian's best inlPrcst. tlw nthics of' tlrn raid and th,~ nrnntal damagn inf'licted by this incident am difficult to determine, because "wf\ hav,~ to go on a variety of assump­tions," Brown-(;ort said. 
HOMES FOR RENT 
2000-2001 SCHOOL YEAR 

-Domus Properties has 3,4,5, and 8 bedroom houses available -Student neighborhoods close to 
campus -Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 2000/2001 school year BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT 
Contact Kramer (219)274-1501 or (219)234-2436 or (219)674-2572 
Why start your day stuck in traffic? There's no such thing as rush hour at an EVA wilderness camp. Our youth counselors live and work in some of the most beautiful, natural settings in the eastern United States. Hike the Appillilchian Trnil. 
better than breathing exhaust fumes twice a day? For more information, park your mouse at www.eckerd.org. 
Send resume to: 
Selection Specialist/ND, P.O. Box 7450 
Clearwater, FL 33758-7450
Canoe the Suwanee. Sleep under the or e-mail to: recruiting@eckerd.org
stars. Develop personal relationships. And help at-risk kids get back on the 
All majors encouraged to apply. right path. Doesn't that sound a lot Paid training provided. 
1-800-222-1473 • www.eckerd.org 
EOE 
orld 


Friday. April 28, 2000 COMPILED FROM THf: OBSEHVEH WJHE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Hard-liners shut down three more Iranian newspapers 
TEIIHAI\. lra11 
lrnnian hard-linPrs shut down thn~c mon~ nr:wsµapl\rs Thursday. including one owned bv rdormist Prnsident Mohammad Khatami's brothnr. prPssing tlwir campaign against pub­lications that have fur.led pnhlic support for rnform. !\bout 200 studf'nts dnmonstrntcd against th<' dosur!'s at thr Shahid Behcshti UnivPrsitv in northnrn T1-~hra11 in the early hours of' 0 l-'riday. said an Iranian journalist, spnaking on rnndition of anonymity. The stu­Ul\llls burrwd tirns and thrnw stones at uni­wrsity buildings and wcrP dispPrsPd by police ,dl1\r about an hour. Thr. media closures. now numbnring Hi. arc hampering Khatarni's :tllirs' politirnl 11.mbitions. Only one reformist pap1•r rt'mainnd publishing Thursday as cam­paigning slartNl for th0 May 5 run-oil elec­tions. whirh will d!'cidr 6(i srats in the 290­s11at parlianwnt. or Majlis. 
Vietnam downplays security concerns 
!IO Clll .\'1INII CITY 
Thr' govc>rnnwnt on Thursday downplayed sl'rurilv ronrPrns for thP 25th annivcrsarv rPIPbr,(tion of tlw Vintnam War's rnd, dPspit;) tlw prc>sc>!l('<' of arnwd troops and the sc,tling back (If what had hPPn planned as a major strPl't paradP. Strt\Pts in this soutlwrn city for­nwrly known as Saigon wPrP lillt1d with bright rnlon•d bunling proclaiming thP anniversary of' Vit'lnam's victory. along with North ViPtnanwsP and Communist Party nags and photos or thr !ngPndary communist hero !lo Chi Minh. Vir.tnam clcarlv viPws Sundav's 1'vc>nts as an opportunity to· bolster patrioti;m -and possibly gPnc>ratn inc.rnasr.d aid from abroad. 
Giuliani 's cancer could end Senate run 
NEW YORK 
\,!ayor Hudolph Giuliani disclosed Thursday th,1t hi' has prostatr rnncrr and acknow!edgPd that whi!P Lhr disrasP was raught rarly. it rnuld spr.11 tlw rnd of his Smmtr. run against l lillarv Hodham Clinton. App1'aring upbr.at and !\llPrgPtic at a City !Jail n(\WS conference. (;iuliani. j;j_ conlirm(id spcrn!alion that start­Pd \V('dnPsday PVPning whnn ht> was seen 1'nl<'ring a hospital and !Paving thrre hours latPr. "l was diagnos1\d yt\Sl!\rday." Giuliani said. ··1rs a tn·atab!P form or prostate cancer. It was dingnosC'd al an Parly stage... The HPpubliran mayor said lw WDuld continue his SrnatP run !'or now but would make a morn dPt'iniLivt1 statemr.nt in two to three v\'eeks al'tPr hP d1'ridPs on a coursn of treatmr1nt. 
,Ji,iitMMdd: 
Dow  9~2E.~=9  
JONES  1-5 • 66  
-57.40  Nasdaq:  


3774.03 
+143.94 
NYSE 650.45 
+3,86 
S&P 500: 

10888 .10 1460.99 
-1-6.45 
VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANX TICKi'E "'; bH-!tiCE AT•'I' WIRELB.SS Q .... -,.7 ,83 +2.HO0 31, Rl 
CISCO SYS'!'i.MS CBCO ~3. )7 +2.2soo 69.0Q 1-lCI WORLDCOM IN WCOM +-11, 02 +4.. 50 50 H.3El MlC'-O:'JOFT COJl!P M~FT +1. 66 +L !1100 fill 81 >U\;~DAO 100 .Sltl,.J:I. QQQ .... -43 +3.8750 91.25 lNT~L CORP INTC +J ,72 d.t'115 125. 31 J.T"-T ~ORP T -'S. lt8 -'3.0000 ,1,8. 0(1 ORACLI COR.P ORCL +-7 .10 +5.1225 77, 31 NOKIA CORP -ADI\ NOK +s. ae -t5.12S0 57. DO JDS UNifiHA!':E .tDStJ +Ii". 2-S +S.7S00 '}7.75 

Associated Press 
NEW YOHK 
PPruvian candidate Alejandro Toledo said Thursdav he'II boycott the deciding second ~ound of presidential elections unless wide-ranging elec­toral abuses are eliminat­ed and he is allowed to rompetc on a "level play­ing field." 
The 54-vear-old ernno­mist poi~tAd to ballot stuffing and tampering throughout th,i country by President Alberto Fu_jimori's supporters in the ,\pril 9 first round, and warnr.d that he won't ­allow a repeal perfor­mance. 
TURKEY 
"Let me relate to you our firm commitment of not going into an election if conditions do not change significantly for the second round," Toledo told a gathering at the nonprofit Americas Society in New York. 
Fu_jimori has denied irregularities and assured a clean second round. The president won 49.8 per­r,ent of the vote in the first round, just short of the absolute majority needed to avoid the run-off with Toledo. 
But the results have been questioned by international monitors and on Tuesday, President Clinton signed a congres­
sional resolution warning that Peru could far,e politi­cal and economic sanc­tions if electoral irregular­ities persist. 
Toledo said the second round of elections may be a one-man race. There is no date set yet, but it is likely the elections will take place in eithAr late May or early June. 
"I don't want to legit­imize a process that is fraudulent," he said. "If there is not a political will to make any significant r,hanges in the rules of the game, (Fu_jimori) might be alone in the contest ... and he will not gain national and international legiti­macy. 
"At this point. I'm not very optimistic," he added. 
Toledo said Thursdav that ballots in many regions were cut so that his name -which was last on the list of candi­dates -did not appear. In other instanr,es he said ballots were waxed over. allowing only Fujimori's name to be marked. 
In some states. more people were reported to have voted than there were eligible voters. 
"It is clear that the fig­ures that vou see officiallv do not co0rrespond to the will of the voters." Toledo told the conference. He spoke in English. 
Parliament likely to elect reformist judge 
Associated Press 
ANKAHA 
Turkey's Parliament railed to eltH.;t a president in the first round of voting Thursday, but delivered its strong support to a reformist judge who is liktily io caplllre the office in latPr balloting. 
The vote was a blow to Prime Minister Bulent F:cevit who had serurnd promises !'mm party lead­rrs to support his candi­date. 
Ahmet l\iecdet Sezer, a top jutlgt1 who has spoken of the need for demor,ratir, reforms, received 281 votes. falling short of the two-thirds required for election i-n the flrst round. There are 550 seats in parliament. 
The other votes were split between nine other candidates. The cundidate who came in sor,ond, '\/rwzat Yalcintas, recrived only 61 votes. 
SPveral candidates were expected to drop out of the race in the coming days. The next round of balloting is schPduled fur Monday. If the vote reaches a third 
round, a candidate r,an take the ollice with a sim­ple majority. 
"ft is dear as of now that the results will be good for Mr. Sezer." Ecevit said after the balloting. "I am very optimistic about the rnsults." 
Earlier this week, the leadArs or all five parties in parliament agreed to sup­port Sezer's nomination. But Thursday's vote was a secret ballot and many deputies from the ruling coalition clearly did not back SezAr. The ruling coalition has 351 mem­bers. 
"The government is los­ing its force over its own party groups," said Fehmi Koru. a political analyst. "It will not affect the gov­ernment in the short-run. but after the elPction. Ecevit mav think about his partners.in the govern­mAnt." 
Thr f'irst-round ballot comes just two weeks after Eccvit failed to muster enough support for a r,on­stitutional amendment that would enable Prnsident Suleyman DPmirel to run for another tPrm. 
---------~~------------~--· 

page 6 . The Oburver . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 28, 2000 
BAND awards 2 juniors with scholarships 
Special tO The Observer 
The Black Alumni of Notre Dame (BAND) named juniors Belinda Ann Bryant of Jacksonville, Ark., and Reginald McKnight of Greenville, S.C., Frazier Thompson Scholars for their excellence in academics and sHrvicP lo the African­American and l\/otre Dame communities. Each will receive $2,500 toward senior year accounts. 
l:lrvant who resides off-cam­pus: has earned academic dis­tinction as a Sankofa Scholar and membPr of the Dean's List. An anthropology and computer applications major, Bryant has exhibited IPadership on campus as a Diversity Practicum facili­tator. NAACP vice president, and Class of 2001 Multicultural Committee Chairperson. 
She also also serves locally, as a mentor with the Rig Brother/Big Sister Program of South Bend and nationally, as diversitv recruitment coordina­tor for Undergraduate Admissions. 
Bryant, a viola player, has also received campus recogni­tion for her thoughtful art exhibits. 
Upon completing college ­the first in her family to do so -Bryant plans to pursue a career in information technolo­gy or a Ph.D. in forensic anthro­pology. 
WRC 
continued from page l 
rent directors of the WRC to discuss the University's options. 
"We've also requested a cou­ple of time a meeting with the WRC where just members from Notre Dame can sit down with them and discuss their poli­cies," Hoye said. "The WRC 

B A s B A L L 
4~~ ~ 
McKnight of Knott Hall has majors in both American stud­irs and computer applications. A perennial Dean's List student, Sankofa Scholar and Notre Dame Studenl-Alhlete Honor Societv member, McKnight excels academically dtispite his standout role on the Notre Oame soccer team. 
McKnight is a pep,r tutor and volunte(\r coach for inner-city youth. He is a member of the l.Jniv1\rsity Committee on Cultural Diversity, does work for Bead Across America. Notre Dame Student-Athletes Against Drugs and the Notre Dame Student-Athlete Advisory Committee. 
Wilh an eventual law degree and possibh1 master's in history or divinity. he'd like to pursue careers i1{ law or politics, pu!Jlic speaking and literature writing. 
Frazier Thompson, '47, began l\otre Dame's legacy of African­American acarlernic rxcellence as a pre-med student, track athlete and Notre Dame's first African-American graduate. He died in 1991. 
Since 1997, over $100,000 has been raised in his memory to support Frazier Thompson awards, primarily through con­tributions of African-American Notre Dame alumni. 
Questions about the Frazier Thompson scholarships and the "Generations" campaign may be directed to the Notre Dame Development Office. 
indicated that there would be an informatinnal meeting, and we ,viii continue trying for that type of thing." 
Hoye indicated that the University will continue the dis­cussion about whether to join the Worker Rights Consortium after this weekend's meeting. 
"We want to see whether membership in the WRC fits with what we're already doing," Iloye said. 
Humor artists will be performing skit comedy at 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library auditorium ~ free admission. 

sin!f . 
~e! 
u !h Annual 
Institute for Spiritual Leadership 
AUGUST 14-15, 2000 LAKESIDE, MICHIGAN 
Strengthen your understanding, skills and cornnritment as a spiritual leader-Workshops include: 
. 
promoting Christian service 

. 
praying together 

. 
facilitating dynamic Bible studies 

. 
leading retreats 


Open and free to all Saint Mary's students, faculty, adtninistrators and staff. 
Come to an informational meeting April 27 at NOON in 158 Regina, or May 3 at 5:00 PM in the North Wedge Room, or call 284-5391 to register! 
-1!1-Questions? Call Saint Mary's
SAINT Space is limited, so campus Ministry
MARY'S 
COLLEGE Register by May 12, 2000! at 254-5391 
NOTRB DAMB, IN 


CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
THE 
SUM.MER SERVICE 
PROJECT 
University·ofNotre Dame 
Over 30 Sites Open! 
,e Buffalo, New York -(Local Student) e Columbus, Georgia -Small home for homeless men 1J Dallas, Texas -Brady Center for Kids -(male) ,e Delaware -Sojourner's Place (live on site) ,e Dubuque, Iowa -Camp for kids with physical problems ,e Ft. Wayne, Indiana -Matthew 25/Clinic for low income 
,e Ft. Worth, Texas -Habitat for Humanity/kids eGrand Rapids, MI -Clinic for Migrant Workers (Spanish) -1' Harrisburg, PA -Interfaith Family Shelter ,e Houston, Texas -Catholic Charities -e Kansas City, Kansas -Catholic Worker House (male) 
Don Bosco Center -variety 
,e Kokomo, Indiana -Home for women (female) ,e Mario[!, Indiana -Family Services/Emergency Shelter -e Poughlceepsie, NY -Good Counsel Home for pregnant teens -1' LaPorte, Indiana -Sharing Meadows/Dbabilldes camp for adults ,e Muskegon, MI-Evezy Women's Place/Young teen program ,e Nashville, TN -Oasis Center for troubled teens ,e Northern Michigan • Fr. Fred Foundation/Emergency services ,e Jacksonville, Florida -L'Arche Home -e Rochester, New York -Home/clinic for pregnant teens ,e Peoria, Illinois -(loc:al) Guardian Angel Home (kids) " Springfield, Massachusetts -Food Bank " San Diego, California -Disabilities/Job Training i:, San Francisco, California -Andre House (male) ,e South Dakota -Small shelters/reservation camp -' Norwalk, Connecticut -Transitional shelter -1' Ventura, California -Emergency Services 
~, />.sso(',.
ff-',,)~· ~1¾tthonyliavel ~
1
-0
< -:::, ID Marketing ~ s· 
1J Services, Inc. 001 a
NOTRE DAME 
• 
Three elective Theo Credits 

• 
Eight Weeks, $1700 Scholarship 

• 
Additional $1,181 in Americorps Award available 


CALL THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS WITH QUESTION AT 631-7867 
hiday, April 28, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Hawkins speaks on struggle to integrate sexuality, work 
By KIFLIN TURNER 
News Wrirer 
Prol'1issor Pel!ir Hawkins spokn as a mnntor, a Christian and a gay man when he addrcss11d the sexual idfmtity in tlw workl'orco on Thursday. llawkins ideutified his presen­tation as one emanating from an oral history that he cmbod­
i11s, 
"l knew what I was, I knew what my dtHlp loves wr.re, but I was unnhli: to act out." said llawkins 
/\s a product of the Baby Boom in thf' '50's and '60's, Hawkins recalled that dialogue about homosexuality did not PxisL Thnre wt•rn n;i st.udi:nt organizations that properly addrnssf'd sexuality, said llawkins. 
During the '70's Hawkins dodgNI going to thP Vietnam War by becoming an elomcn-
Lury school tnachnr in Nnw York, llawkins nil1Pcted on the many ideas he canw up with in his attempt to evade war. 
·•11 never orcurrnd to me to be gay to get uut of Vietnam," said Hawkins. This evirnt was an influential moment in llawkins's life in shaping his id1•ntitv as an individual. 
"The '60's and '?O's were about Vietnam, and staying out of it -whirh I did," said llawkins. The '70's and '80's W!ll'H for,useci towards diwelop­ing a professional career, llawkins said. 
"Work was tlrn way I got out or the middle class," said Hawkins. Escaping from this social class that embraces tra­ditional views. Hawkins was able to define himself in terms of accomplishmf'nts rather than basing his worth from the judgements of others. 
''Work became my identity and I would not give uµ my identity for the world," Hawkins said, In other social circles within Church and closn relationships, Hawkins com­mnntnd that his sexuality did not prove as a menacing obsta­cle. 
"I could integrate my sexuali­ty and my Christianity," said Hawkins. Church was a place to be real, and consequently, Hawkins added, his sexuality was not something feigned, 
"It was work wlrnrc I could not allow myself to be gay," said Hawkins. The closet had its many reasons, and during this time, the closet was a place to retreat and hide, said Hawkins. 
"I did not want to ber,ome the boy scout leader for gay stu­dents," he said. Hawkins had begun teaching at Yale University and recalled keeping his sexuality a st>crnt in tht> beginning. 
Along wilh the continued dcvPlopment of his profrssional and academic career, Hawkins also spoke uf his life-altering relationship with his lover who later died of' AIDS. 
"I managed to evade Vietnam. and I managed to miss the UIV virus, but I did not miss AIDS," said Hawkins. Even though Hawkins was not infect­ed with the virus, he r,ited this experience as the key turning point in coming out or the closet at work. 
"I. am not a confronting per­son, I am nnt a radical person. in any sense -but I am a gay man," Hawkins said. Hawkins noted that Yale stood by his request to take time off work to take care or his lover through his battle with AIDS. 
At this point, Hawkins found it impossible not to come out about his sexuality, and sal­vaged the strength and courage necessarv in the face of death, Hawkins· became increasingly vocal about his sexuality with his fellow facultv members at Yale. • 
"II' I did not talk about these things in faculty nHwtings, who would?" said Hawkins. Hawkins noted that being in tenure at the University facili­
tated his decision to be more forward. 
"The silence of who we are. the tnrror of speaking as a gay man" has gradually disap­peared, Hawkins said. Hawkins remarked that there were no noticeable differences in the way his co-workers responded to his revelation. 
Aside from the workplace, Hawkins finds that his deep spirituality and faith inspires him to reach peopln in the Church to accnptancn and awareness. 
"The way I am interested in being a gay activist is as a Christian," said Hawkins. The Church is the primary institu­tion that breeds fear and igno­rance, said Hawkins. 
llawkins is currently a pro­fessor of Religion and Literature at Yale Divinity School. 
Hawkins received his Master of Divinity from the Union Theological Seminary and his Ph.D. in English from Yale. Hawkins is also a respected Dante scholar. 


I 
@]• 
Notre Dame Habitaljor Humanity presents... 
~ 
I 
I
JAIL 'N BAIL 2000 
~
I 
~
I Tod11y!!! 1~rn -8~rn 
~
I ~uth Quad J:'lagJ>olo 
~
I 
Here is the list ofparticipants as ofnoon on Thursday. To get an updated Jist and sign-up, visit our jail at the South Quad Flagpole. 
I
I 
Ifyou are participating and see anyone you would like to jail, come to the flagpole between 1pm and 6pm. 
;~
I 
Go to our web site at http://www.nd.edu/~habitat/ and Learn More! 
~ 
~ Craig Rebecca Hambrook Kelly McConnell Chris O'Neill Kristina Seitz Marianna 
I
Adrienne S. Crowley Mike Hayman Erica McCord Nikki Palwnbo Michael Shepherd Michael 
I
Altman Matt Dang Jesse Heiple Geoff McDonald Tim Pam Patrick Sheridan Shawn
I 
Bakker Kerri Dearbaugh Sr. Pat Hogan Jim McLaughlin Mary Pennacchio John Smith Matt
i] 
~ 
Ball Katie DowdaJl Brendan Holloway Jabari McMahon Pat Penino Gina Solie Katluyn 
I
I 
Bears Katie Doyle,CSC Torn Hurley Time Mehan Paul Pfaff Michael Steffes Brian 
Becker Ryan Dues John Jab;onski Jennifer Menze Alex Pierce Tom Steirer Joe 
~
~ 
Bishara Anthony Ertel Jason Jackson Alex Metz Trisha Reinhart Vanessa Straub Nicole 
~
i 
Bourgeouis Joshua Farrell Jen Jarret Jennelle Micek John Rentner, CSC Randy Stuffings Jeff 
i 
Brogan Kathleen Feduska Joe Jones Lindsey Mikacenic Nancy Ricci Allison Taborga Paulo 
I
I 
Buescher Marcia Ferfolia Michelle Julian Meg Milford Joe Ricketts Paul Taggart Chris 
I 
BW"ke Dan Ferreira Bill Kennedy Robert Min Dong Rinaldi Danielle Terifay Lindsay
I ;Bums Johnny Finnerty Meghan Kirkner Dr.Dave Mohennan Dave Ro Priscilla Thomas David Callan Alex Flores Jesse Kreiz.enbeck Grant Moriarty Anne Sablan Nicholas Tomko Tara 
I
I 
~ Campbell Michael Fordyce Betsy Lacayo Arnold Mwphy Micah Sackley Zack lThran Sarah 
I
Casey Matt Fowler Nate Lach Pat Mmphy Troy Sarkesian Mia Utz Jenny 
Cassidy Joe Garcia Jaymie La~ki Megan Mylan Katie Schaab Susan Villalpando Vanessa 
I
I ~ 
Cavo Betsy Garza Vanessa Lanan Ade.le Ngo Tam Schafer Courtney Virtue Patrick 
i 
Coleman Katie Oates Lauren Lang Liz Nicholson Jamie Schank Kristen Wallace Meg
~ 
I
Coleman Kevin Gaughan, CSC Tom Lies, CSC Jim Nixon Canie Schearer Eric Weidner Corey 
I 
Connolly Meg Gel7beiser Jackie Linville Jordan Noone Julia Schiller Robby Whetzel Seth
I I 
Corbally Erin Gerber Chris Madonia Phillip Norton Brooke Schmidt Jacqueline Williams Alicia 
I
COibin Nicole Gholson Grant Mann Mike O'Brien Tiffany Sclunidt Scott Willkom Beth 
i 
Cosse Clay Green Melissa Maynes Domingo O'Donoghue Brian Schneider Joe Woods AmandaI 
I 
~oughlin Brian Habia Adam MIIZUTkiewie2: Chrissy O'Keefe Erin Schwartz Sarah 
i
I
; 'rY( I;
Special Thanks to Aays Rental! 
~
i 
~
~ 

I§ [fil 
page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 28, 2000 
Tuition 
continued from page I 
a budget surplus. 
''Thr average budget surplus is well over :Jo million dollars per year," said Notre Dame student body presidenl Brian O'Donoghue. 
$30 million question The budget surplus is not well­publicized, but students who know about it are surprised that tuition incr<'ascs an• still 1rnces­sary. "When you haw a $30 miUi.on surplus like that, I think it's totally inexcusable to raise tuition," said junior Julie Carbo!. 
Scott Malpass, Notre Dame vice president of' finance, acknowledges that the hudget usually has a surplus. He 
explained lhal "Notre Dame is not 
tuition I 
at the end of the 
meant to be. nor was it absolutely. 
year, tbe budget 
But that
ever meant to he 
office. provost 
means we'd
an institution for 
Nathan Hatch 
have to !'ind 
and executive upper-class kids." 
the money 
vice president 
from sume• 
W i I Ii am 
Brian O'Donoghue where else," 
Beauchamp, 
student body president said Malpass,
discuss how tu allocate tho money. Last year the surplus was spent on capital improve­ments. academic needs and financial aid. 
Notre Dame doesn't pretend to be cheap. It costs more than a million dollars a day to operate the University. Financial aid lit­erature warns students that pay­ing for Notre Dame requires sac­rifice and that "annual increases in the cost of a Notre Dame edu­cation are anticipated." 
But in light of Notre Dame's vast financial resources, why does tuition continue to rise? Malpass explained that Notre Dame's goal is to increase its academic reputation. 
"Notre Dame is in a mode of continuing advancement," said Malpass. Currently ranked 19th in the influential U.S. News and Reports rankings, Notre Dame is striving to better not only that ranking but also the overall quality of academics, research and student life. 
And advancement is expen­sive. 
Building to the future 
Construction occurs at a dizzy­ing pace. '.Ytore faculty positions are necessary for smaller classes and more student-professor interaction. Thanks to massive improvements in recent years, Notre Dame's technology infra­structure is in the top 1 percent among colleges and universities. 
One reason the University focuses on advancement is to continue recruiting quality stu­dents. The average S/\T score of the freshman class has risen substantially over the past sever­al years. Today's students pay for new advancements to attract tomorrow's best and brightest. 
But shouldn't it be possible to provide a quality education, maintain a top ranking and make Notre Oame affordable lo all students? Williams College, a Massachusetts liberal arts school, decided to freeze tuition [or the first lime in 46 years, cre­ating a buzz in schools across the~ nation. Notre Dame doesn't c'xpect to follow suit anytime soon. 
"We continually have to raise tuition to continue that advance­ment." said Malpass, citing William's move as a short-term solution that would cause long­term problems. Williams used money from its endowment. to cover the tuition increase. 
"Yes, we 
could [freeze 
emphasizing 
the impor­tance of the endowment for 
Notre Dame's future. 
Malpass explained that Notre Dame's $2 billion endowment is not sufficient to halt tuition increases and provide security for the future. Although Notre Dame's alumni are more gener­ous than most, donors often have specific requirements, which don't necessarily coincide with students' desire for more schol­arships. 
"People don't want to give 
money to financial aid, they want 
theil· names on things," said 
O'Donoghue. 
Excellence for all? 
Perhaps more important than the overall cost of Notre Dame is whether the Cniversity helps all students afford it. 
Officials note with pride that 
the amount of financial aid has 
increased a much greater per­
crmtage than tuition has. 
Admission to Notre Dame is 
need-blind and the financial aid 
ollice boasts that it now meets all 
students' demonstrated financial 
need. In the current school year, 
Notre Dame undergraduates 
receive more than $27.8 million 
in need-based University schol­
arship aid and $15.8 million in 
need-based student loans. 
But individual families oftnn 
have greater need than the for­
mula demonstrates. 
"Notre Dame is not meant to 
be, nor was it ever meant to be 
an institution for upper-dass 
kids," said ()'Donoghue. 
Less than half' of lhe freshmnn 
Finals ... done. Graduation ... done. Packing & shipping ... ugh! No problem. Call Mail Boxes Etc. 
II"MAIL BOllSETC,. 
Stepan Cenl1>r Basketball Courts 
May 8th -13th 10am -5pm 
Mav 17lh -20lh 1Dam -5pm 
May 22nd 10am -5p1n 

Lyons Hall 
May 10lh -13th 10am -5pm 
277-6245 
Mon Bo,ces Elc. SR 23 & Ironwood 2 blocks east of N.D. Free F1ck-ups 
pfa,,:n• -c.oa ahM>d ol llmtl 
lo l<:llr.duJa appclnlm•nl 
class -J9 percent -receives scholarship assistance. Although the University is proud of its increased scholarship funding, is Notre Dame really doing enough if 61 percent of students do nut recoive scholarships'! Or is tho majority of the freshman class wealthy enough that it doesn't ne£~d scholarship assistance to foot tho approximaloly $30,000 yearly bill for tuition, room and board'? 
For those who do rnceive aid, often a large potion of' thn need is met not through scholarships, bm "sdf-lrnlp" measurns such as loans and work-s1udy. While in theory, "self-help" programs placfl necessary responsibility on the shoulders of the students, it may n1quirn more hfl!p than stu• dents are ablo to give. 
"From my point of view the administration has not helped me at all financially," said Carbo!. "I will bn so rar in debt when I get out or here," 
Administrators say they are awarn uf student debt worries but, as of yet, no solutions have been developed. "Thfl Universily is currently striving to address the concern for student debt lev• els," said Joseph Husso, direr.trir of finandal aid. Students, howev­er, will continue to struggle until the concern translatc~s into spe­cific changes. 
Students who have to or want to pay for their education them­selves find it nearly impossible, even with great sacrifice. At six dollars per hour -the approxi­mate pay rate or student campus jobs -a student would have to work 96 hours a week, year­round, to pay the $30.000 yearly bill for a Notre Dame education. 
For some, it's just not worth it. All of her life, Erin Emme has been a Notre Dame fan. When she was accepted at Notre Dame and entered school in fall 1998, it was the realization of a dream. But Emme, a theology major, Jell Notrn Dame all.er her f'reshman year. 

"Since I was going into such an 1111-lucrativn ffold and becausP I wasn't goi11g tu rnakP any nrnney, I couldn't justify tlrn cost," said Emme. 
'"My exp<'rience with the pcio­plc in financial aid [is thall these people arn passionate," said ()'Donoghue. "I've always been impressed with their dedication to the studenL<;.'' 
Hut financial aid otlicials work with strict rules and formulas rooted in the concept of demon­strated financial need. Personal situations don't always show up in the numbers that th(~ financial aid officers sec. 
"In some cases there will be allowances for individual circum­stances," said James Malloy, associate director of financial aid. "That's part of our business, to listen and respond to each family." 
It's not easy, though. Financial aid officers require convincing proof that family circumstances have changed or the aid formula overlooked the specific financial dilliculties. 
Athletics to the rescue 
Notro DamB has also c:ontin­ued to pursue f'unding souru\S rrom outside the University. Notre Dame's tPlcvision con­tract with NBC for home foot­ball games has bolstered finan­cial aid by $50 million over sev­eral years. Additionally, the University requires that a por­tion of' the tickPt profits is retunrnd to the gtmeral operat­ing budget for academic S!'r­vic:os. 
"l\otre Dame may be the only major institution where athlet­ics actually funds academic advancement -at most schools the athletic department loses money and must be fund­ed by the univc1 rsity." s a i cl Malpass. 
But while students can hope that the growing endowment and football revenues will pro­vide more financial aid in the future, the University has no plans to discontinue tuition increases. 
"Quality is expcmsive. That's just the bottom line," said Malpass. 
STUDENT ALUMNI PICNIC 
SA'1\JROA~, APRIL 29, 2000 
Students: Pleasejoin over two hundred and fifty alull'll'\i club representatives at an outdoor picnic pl'ior to the Blue-Gold 
Game. 
.,,. 
\.ocafion: South of Mendoza College of Business (NeJd to Alumoi Senior Club). '1'he dining halls will be closed. 
Also: 
A flag football garne will be played by fonner Notre Oal11e football players in Notre Dame Stadium prior to the 'Blue­Gold Game. Many of the players are from the 1988 
championship team. 
Rain S\te: In case of rain., lunch will be served in both dining halls. 
Sponsored by: Notre Oarne Food Services and the Notre Dame Alumoi Association. 


NOTRE DAME FOOD SERVICES 
Friday, April 28, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Students step up to the plate to defeat breast cancer 
By BRIAN HOBBINS 
News Writet 
Whl'n the l'\otn• Da11w hase­hal I t<>am takcs on Big East rival St. John's this Sunday, it will be µlaying nnP of' its biggt>st gamt>s of thP season. l'rofossor Charles Lennon's managPnwnt dass will also bfl squaring off with a formidahlc oppo1rnnt. Tbn two organiza­tions hnvP l"ornwd an alliancf\ in tlw battlr against brrast 
l'.UIH'{ff. 
"Chuck Lc1u1011's mnnage­mPllt 231 class is promoting and pulling togntlrnr this breast !'Hllf'<'r awarPn<•ss gamf' to put inl'ornrnt.ion out in the commu­nity about this so young people and 1woplr in tlw community will lwronrn morn awarn," said soplrnmorP Paul O'Toolc. ThP gam<' is cspl'(:ially swPPt for O'To11l1•, who is a l:atclrnr for tlw lmschall tPam. 
ull is a huge rivalry will! St. John ·s. so ol" coursn WI) are going t.o bP t11nml up for that, but with the crowrl we arc P.XJJPl'ting, we• an) rnally going to be excited," hi' said. O'Toole was inlimately involved with tlw project. 
IIP organized 111'f-lidd activi­tiPs likr· thP national anthem, lirst pitch and priZP giveaways. l!P also acwd as the clas:;' link to team coaches and players. 
'Tm actually llw only one on tlw baseball team from the class and to lw on Llw field and SP!' it all rnme togPllwr is really spPc·ial." Im said. 
"This is tlw third vcar he l.Pnnonl has b!:Pll d11ing this. llis wit'P is a breast nrnn!r sur­vivor, I am assuming that is the reason," evaluation committee leader Heather Shannon said. Shannon's duties indude cam­pus promotion and surveying the crowd about breast cancr,r, OthPr committees include plan­ning, organizing. leading and docunrnntation groups. 
"Thci very first day we were given our groups, it is definitely the main focus or the class," Shannon said, 
''Tho management course is onp where• students sign a con­tract with me to apply managc­m en t skills to an event,'' Lr.nnon said. The course is a Cullege of 13usiness approved Sl'rvir.e IP-arning dass. OvP-r tlrn past five semesters, Lennon's classns have put on breast can­u• r awar<'ness !'Vents at women's volleyball and basket­ball games in adrlition t.o base­ball games. 
"We are going to bn honoring breast cancer survivors at tlrn game," Shannon said. Ilonorc!ls include Professor Lennon's wil'e. Joan. Professor LPnnon was candid with the class about Lhe reasons for the game; he brought breast cancer sur­vivors in to share their stories. 
"We had speakers every Wednr.sday throughout the whole semester. Some of the spflakers were survivors, Mrs. Lennon came out too." O'Toole said. 
Mrs. Lennon is a likely candi­date for throwing the first pitch, narrowly beating out Regis Philbin. he continw~d. 
Other honorees include a male alum who b!1at breast cancer. "lie is doing the Avon three-day walk and we are going to help him raise money because he needs $1800 to 
walk in it," Shannon said. Thi' walk is con­ducted in an effort to raise money for breast cancur research. 
"We am going to do things between the innings and we have prizes to give away; Adidas equip­ment and plane tickPts," said Shannon. The game promises to have a carni­val atmosphere, but the greater messagH will focus on breast cancer. 
"Thnc will br people there hanrling out information packets from the hospitals nearby," O'Toole said. ThP packPts will help inform a large audience about signs of breast cancer and how to help the day's cause. 
This weekend's activities seek to promote not only breast can­cer awareness, but Notre Dame baseball as well. 
"It is good to get a lot of' peo­ple involved, because not a lot of people come out to the base­ball games. But with this event we are hoping for a big turnout," O'Toole said. "Last year we had terriblr, weather and still had over 2000 people come out to the baseball game." 
On the other hand, Professor Lennon's management class has managed to promote itself. 

"This is a great experience, and flveryone is talking about it," O'Toolc said. Lennon's class was one of the first courses to close during last spring's pre­registration. 
"I would say that tho over the past five semesters that there is no doubt that this is a totally different experience," Lennon said. "It is a fun class to teach." 
"It is definitely my most inter­esting class, I feel like I have more invested in it. It is a real­life experience and I will have more experiences like it later in life," Shannon said. 
In addition to text readings, lectures and exams, Shannon's efforts include breakfast meet­ings and more work than she puts into her other classes at school. But she doesn't mind. 
"It doesn't feel like classwork," she said, "it just feels like plan­ning a baseball game." 
"I think that is the way most people learn, to get their hands dirty, do the actual work and sec the end result," O'Toole said. 
While tensions could be run­ning high for the team at such an event, Lennon isn't con­cerned. "My motto is; high trust -high performance. You trust them [the students] and pre­pare them and you can expect the performance to be there. But the anxiety helps keep you on your toes." 
Anxiety aside and after a semester of planning, Lennon's class will see the end results at noon this Sunday at Eck Stadium. Admission is free. 
THE DEPARTMENT OF AMERICAN STUDIES.·· 
and THE JOHN W. GALLIVAN PROGRAM IN JOURNALISM, ETHICS & DEMOCRACY 
Proudly Present The Following Awards to Graduating Seniors: 
THE JAMES E. MURPHY AWARD 
for exceptional journalism to: THE HUGH O'DONNELL AWARD for outstanding academic achievement to: 
Meredith Salisbury 
Beth Wladyka THE PAUL NEVILLE AWARD 
for excellence in journalism to: 
Michelle Krupa 
THE J. SINNOTT MEYERS AWARD THE PROFESSOR JAMES WITHEY AWARD
for outstanding service to the community to: for notable achievement in writing to: 
1\lary l\1cManus Michelle Krupa 
page 10 The Observer . NEWS f-riday, April 28, 2000 
CDC study: Higher beer taxes mean fewer STDs 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
Cheap benr is a leading contributor to the spread of sexually transmitted dis­eases, according to a government rnport that says raising the tax on a six­pack by 20 cents could reduce gonor­rhea by up to 9 percent. 
Tlw CPntPrs for Disease Control and Prevention study, released Thursday, comµared changes in gonorrhea rates to changes in alcohol policy in all states from 1981 to 1995. 
In years following beer tax increases, gonorrhra rates usually dropped among young people. The same happened wlwn the drinking age went up -as it did in many states during the 1980s. 
"Alcohol has been linked to risky sex­ual behavior among youth. It influences a person's judgment and they are morn likely to have sex without a condom, with multiple partners or with high-risk partners," said llarrell Chesson. a health economist with the CDC. 
Beer industi·y lobbyists, howovcr, said recent statistics show young pnople are already drinking more responsibly, thanks in part to efforts by brewers. 
"Excise taxf's have little or nothing to do with alcohol abuse in sodcty," said Lori Levy or The Beer lnslitute in Washington. 
"I think that our members understand the importance of educating young pco­plf' about how to make responsihlc choices once they're old enough and they put a lot of monny and effort into those programs," lw continued. 
Gonorrhea, one of' the most common venereal diseases, was examinmJ in thn CDC study because long-term statistics am available and the disease is more 
Nike will not renew U. Mich contract 
Associated Press 
DETROIT 
'.\like Inc. said Thursday that it has terminated negotirrtions on the renewal of a six-year, multimillion-dollar licensing agreement with the University of Michigan. 
University President Lee Bollinger accused the company of retaliating against Michigan for its involvement with the Worker Rights Consortium, a student-driven coalition of schools demanding that Nike provide better labor conditions for overseas workers. 
Last week, Nike Chairman Phil Knight withdrew plans to donate $30 million to his alma mater. the University of Oregon, after that school joined the consortium. 
"Michigan seems to be the next target or a major attempt 
bv Nike to breach understand­ings and make some kind of corporate statement," Bollinger srrid. 
Nike did not disclose the dol­lar value or the proposed new contract with Michigan, one of 
',200 colleges and universities with which it has licensing agreements. But tho new deal would have been what Nike called its largest university kpartnership" -providing funding and Nike footwear, apparel and equip­ment to all 2!i men's and women's varsity teams and recreational sports programs through August 2006. Under Michigan's existing deal with Nike, which Pxpircs Aug. 31, the company annually pays the athlPtics department $590,000. Nike also supplies $930.000 in products to be Michigan's 
exclusive sporting goods provider -and gets a promo­tion al Loost from placing its logo on Wolvnrine uniforms. 
kit Morris, Nike's director of' college sports marketing, said in a statement that the break­down of talks with Michigan had nothing to do with the uni­versity's membership in the Worker Rights Consortium. 
But Morris said one of the changes Michigan· sought in the proposed contract -regarding labor issues -was "problmnat­
ic." 
That change, Morris said, "would give thn university uni­lat1!ral authority to impos11 any standards, guidelines or princi­ples that thr.y should adopt over the six-year tnrm of th11 agree­ment, and that kind or open­checkbook agroenrnnt is some­thing that we're simply unpre­pared to agree to." 
evonly spread among states. 
The CDC analyzed the drops i11 gonor­rh ca rates l"nllowing different tax increases and came up with the esti­mate that 20-cent increase per six-pack would lead to a 9 percr.nt drop in gon­orrlrna rates. 
Chesson cited the example or a HJ­cPnt per gallon -about 9 cPnts per six­pack -tax increase in California in 1991. 
Gonorrhea rat11s in th<' l !i to 1IJ agn group dropped about 30 percnnt the f'ol­lowillg year. Drops in other states wPrn not as dramatic. 
During the study, various statns raised beer taxes 36 times. Gonorrlrna rates among in Uw 1!i to 19 ago group dropped in 24 ol' those instances, and rates among those 20 to 24 dropped 26 times. 
In both age groups, men soem to he morn affected than women by higher beer prices. 
Most minimum legal drinking age increases were also followed by a decrease in the gonorrhea rate, espe­cially in the 15 to 19 age group. 
"This study suggests these strategics could have a significant impact in reducing sexually transmitted disr,ases among young people," said Dr. Kathleen Irwin, chief of health services research and evaluation for tlw CDC's division of' sexually transmittnd dis­casos. 
/\bout 3 million t1)1rn-agers are infect­ed with sexually transmitted diseases each year, Chesson said. 
Gonorrhea usually can be treated with antibiotics, although somr. drug­rnsistant strains have been developed over the years. 
5 students injured in school explosions 
Associated Press 
TLB/\ CITY. Ariz. 
Two appar<rntly horn<!· made explosive devices det­onatml in a high school on the Navajo Heservation on Thursday, injuring five stu­dents. 
One studcrnt was knocked unconscious, said Hon Brown of the Navajo Department or Law Enforcement. The otlrnrs injurrd at Tuba City lligh School complained or eye and skin irritation and shortness of' brnath. All wnrc taken to a medical cent11r for treatment. 
One device exploded in a bathroom and another in a hallway. The school was not damaged. of'licials said. 
The devices appeared to have been made with plastic soda bottles stuffed with aluminum foil. white papnr correctional nuid and anoth­er lj.quid, Brown said. 
Navajo police evacuated the area and called a haz­ardous materials team. 
The police wern also ques­tioning two young suspects, but Brown said hn didn't know whether or not the suspects w"re students at tlw school. 
It was not immediat1dy clear what the motive for the explosion was, Im said. 
Neither the school nor local law officers had received anv recent thrnats, Brown said.· 



p g,e I 1 
Frid<1y. April 28, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
~,,·.,
··y\ 
· ~ I~ ,i'l A ~......... 
f~r' I· ,.• J.IJl'f ti 
I 
I•\ 'I ii • -•~ , 
··1,i;~t • 
, I ,,.,,.
~ ' 
I I ·. •~· . (' 
..,. . ~l1 

,·, '11'"1'. ... ,,, ..,'. • •,•,,11,1 It 
' 
·····-·------------· .....,______.... -----~----~-----------! .. 'i.\.~.i-~1 i \;·r(\ L.1t· ... 1.lin,<·. Hi11-,. 
Left Brain Right Brain UNLIMITED EARNING POTENTIAL!! CHANGE THE WORLD THROUGH PHILANTHROPY!! 
SET YOUR OWN HOURS!! HELP THE ILL IN EAST AFRICAH EARN WHILE YOU SERVEII PROVIDE HELP AND HOPE!! 
Come to ameeting on May 7at 7:00 P.M. in 141 Debartolo and learn how you can earn more than in an average summer while raising money for charity. 
Simply put, for each dollar you secure for the foundation, you will be paid 10%. That means if you get 10 people or companies which usually give $10,000 each to charity every year to give this year to the Wilson Foundation, you've earned $10,000 for 
yourself. Do it full or part time. Let it be your primary income, or supplemental. 
Get the details at the meeting. Learn about the bonus incentives tool 
Don't miss out on this unique opportunity to earn while saving lives. 
' •"• I, I 
. 
VIEWPOINT 
page 12 OBSERVER Friday, April 28, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dome, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Norr< Dam,. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHJE Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  8USINF.SS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Tim L,ne  
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Tim Logan  Brian Kessler  

NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR;· Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smirh SCENE EDJTOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARv's Eorron: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Liz Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Pat Peters Ao DESIGN MANAGER, Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CoNTROLI.ER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
. CONTACT Us OFF!CE MANAGER/GENliRAL iNfO.............631-7471 FAX..... . ..............631-6927 ADVERTISING....................................63 J-6900/8840 
ohserver@darwin.cc.nd.e<lu EDITOR lN CHIEF .......................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AsST. ME...... .. ..........631-4541 BllSINl:.SS 0HJCE.......................................6:\J-';J lJ NEWS......, .........., ... ., ................ .,.... .,..........631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWl'OINT.................................................631-5.'lO.'l "bserver. viewpoim. l@Jnd.edu SJ>ORTS......................................................631-4543 observer.spons. l@nJ.edu 
SCENE......................................................... 631-4 540 
observer.scene. l@lnd.edu SAINT MARY'S............................................6.? 1-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO......................................................631-8767 SrsTFMS/WEU ADMINISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http:l!ohserver.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, spores, features and opinion columns. as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associared Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly studen I reviews 
advertise !or policies 
online features for spe­
and mes ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
ro meer the editors and 
August 1999 
scaff 
POLICIES 
The Obse1ver is ,he independem, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudenrs of the University ofNocrc Dame du Lac ,md Saine Mary·s College. Editorial content, including advertisements. is not governed by policies ofthe adminisrracion ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectivelv as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of ,he Editor in Chiet; Managing Ediiur, Assistant Managing Editor and department edirors. Cnmmemari.es.. lerrers and columns present the views of the .1urho1·s and 1101 necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Vie"1,oint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners [O ,he Editor musr be signed and must include comacr information. 
· Q,mtiom regarding Ohsen,et pnlicie.r shnuld he direct­ed to Editor;,, Chief Mike Co11110/ly 
DILBERT 
A HACKER BROKE INTO OUR 5Y5TEI"'\ AND FOUND OUT OUR CORPORATE 
STRATEGY. 

The Notre Dame Connection 
Last Friday I sat in thn Cincinnati­Western Kentucky Airport, waiting for a plane to take me to Philadelphia. Every half-hour or so, an apologetic Delta employee announced over the microphone that the departure would be another half-hour or so later than planned. Two hours after the scheduled departure time, I called my mother. "Mom, sorry but I won't be home for Easter this year. The plane to take me to Philly isn't going to arrive before the one to return me to Notre Dame." 
I sighed and took a scat by the window. "So where are you coming f'rom?" the guy next to me asked. 
"South Bend," I replied. "How 'bout you?" "Oh, just Cincinnati. Notre Dame?" he 
inquired. "Yeah, I'm a first year," I answered. "Yes! My sister and two brothers went 
to Notre Dame. I'm a big fan," he exclaimed. 
The woman next to mn, who had spent the last hour frantically dialing numbers on her cell phone, turned to us. "So you go to ND. I low do you like it'?" 
"Oh, love it," I responded to her, a 1998 graduate. 
As we conversed about the current state of our fair University. an older cou­ple seated across from us interrupted our conversation. Their son also went here. A lively conversation ensued aboul this University and its relationship with llrn world, which at the moment seemed very, very small. I then noticed a bizarrn phenomenon. I had gained the approval of four complete strangers simply through my attPndanco at this University. The daughter of an alumnus, I have wit­nessp,d this before. As my father explains, "If you ment someone else from Notn• Dame, that pBrson immediately regards you as 'ok' simply bncause you went (or go) there." 

Or know someorw who went (or goes) here. My mother. for example, brokt1 tlw law without punishment for her associa­tion with my fathnr. Hacing to ment friends arriving for a football game against Navy the next day, she was stopped by a policeman. When he asked her why she had reach11d 65 miles per hour (or 55 miles per hour depnnding upon your point of view) on a 45 mile ppr hour road, she explained about tho foot­ball game and the l'riends and my father. The policeman, a fan apparently, let hor go. I le seemed to rngard a Notre Dam1i football game as an adequate motivo for speeding. (l)espito my months long ago­nizing colloge search, I now know that I made my choic<• at that moment. Any rol­lnge that gets you out of a ticket must be superior. And also, why not avoid stress over speed traps if possible'?) 
Occurrences like the af'orementiormd sometimes evoke within me the foeling that I have bncomf' part ol' a secret soci­ety. As I pondered this feeling, I rnalized that this Univnrsity do1is have some cult­like characteristics, For instance, tho elders or th11 community -the alumni ­indoctrinate impressionable youth ­their children -with the dogma of this University. I rmnmnber reciting our fight song on the bus in fourth grade. My father had written it out for me and sung it (unfortunately) to me numerous timns. (According to my aunt, he hummed tlrn melody to nw in my crib.) 
The isolation of' earn pus augments this indoctrination once tht~ youth arrivP to study. Frcshnrnn sp1md most of tlrn year on onn square miln of land as thny lack masons to leave campus and have dilli­culty doing so when one arises. But I sup­pose this occurs on many college cam­puses. 
Finally, a friend. Beth, alnrwd me to a striking parallPI betwPen this University and a clandesti1rn community in tlw wildernnss. Freshman Orientation did not mark the lirst time llfith had biwn grnnt­nd by inhabitants of' a place foreign to her with the phrase, "Welcome home." Apparently, she had driven a f'rilmd lo a hippie, earth-loving camp isolated in the woods ofwcst1ffn Pa., where the campers also used this expression to welconw visi­tor~ (home, p1)rhaps). Nnedlnss to say, BHth folt rather uncnrtain of her 1·.hoirn of college on hnr lirst day here. 
But I believe thal llrn phrase, "wclconrn home," and the otlrnr sc1•111ingly cult-like aspP.cts of tlrn University s1!rve simply as marks of its strong sense of' community. The presence of active alumni clubs also speaks of this unity. 
And my connection with follow Donwrs in the Cincinnati airport certainly 111adP tho wait for the plane more lrnarabln and less lonely, although I belinve I would have eventually madn other f'ricrnds whiln waiting for my commcting !light to Philadelphia. I nrnan. who can spend six hours in an airport without al lnast talk­ing to somebody? 
But tlrn "Notrn Danw Conrwrtion" c.er­lainly did make it vnry easy for nw to find friends. 
The views expressr.d in this colllmn are those of the author and not necessarify those ofThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
r-::::==========::::--, E ,--:==============:::--­
~ DID HE POST IT :; I'M ALSO CURIOUS
0 
®., ON THE INTER-ABOUT MY OBJECTIVES ,:, ~ NET? I'D LIKE FOR THIS YEAR. DO
I 
TO READ IT. YOU HAVE THE GUY'S 
"On !his shmrzkPtt globe, men can no long€'/' /iue as
E-MAIL ADDRESS? 
strangers. " Adlai E. Stevenson 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
Friday, April 28, 2000 BSERVER page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


~ 
----..____, 
~ 
~ 
\ 
\i "­
~ 
\:, 

College Illust warn about poison lawns 
I wish to protest the totally unm)ccessary chemical spraying of Saint !vlary's lawns on Wednesday, April 26. A friend and I walk to school togiither, along the old railroad track and across the fields at Saint Mary's. Walking home on Tuesday, we breathnd in delicious, health-giving air laden with the scent of blossoming cherries and just-opening lilacs. Returning on Wed1wsday morning, we were nearly choked and entered Madalcva coughing. We were unablo to walk on any grass for foar of poison -but had lo stick to the pavement. As we approachPCl we saw a man actually spraying the chemicals. He had no mask or protection of any kind. 
On private lawns. it is the custom for the spraying company to put up litt!B warning signs to keep people and pets off the lawn until the poison has dried or supposedly become less virulent. No such signs appeared at Saint Mary's. On April 27, the air still reeked or chemicals, but I have seen sun-bathing students -and even some classes -sitting outside on the sprayed lawns. 
Saint Mary's has been remiss in failing to protect its faculty, students and staff -especially the grounds staff. But it has also brwn uncaring about the other living creatures on campus. Spraying lawns promotes the collapse of biological diversity. As part of its Fall 1999 Landscape project, Saint Mary's Library sponsored a photographic exhibit on lawns called "Crush Zone" by PPrry Kirk. Kirk described the disastrous results of pesticide run-off from tlrn \lississippi River: crustaceans and other ocean life am suffocated by i.he algae bloom caused by the chemical run-olT. Every year, a greater area of the Gulf of Mexico is affected. The College also sponsored a lecture by ecologist Professor Holly Great-Bear Tibbets, who had excellent advice to offer Saint l\lury's about ecological matters. The College spon­sors these events but then ignon~s their message. 
At present, there arc signs up at Saint Mary's urging ecologi­cal awareness in honor of Earth Week. The students do their best to promote recycling and other ecological efforts, but they can do very little while the College still pursues such an irre­sponsible. short-sighted policy, 
Rosalind Clark Assoc-iarc Professor of English Saint Maty's College 
Reject black and white world views, embrace ambiguity 
With each May comes my unauthorized com­mencement address to the seniors. This year's unauthorized fantasy address has special rele­vance for me because Spring 2000 is the 30th anniversary ofmy first spring at Notre Dame in 1970. 
Between the end of my high school senior vear and the end of my collegl\ freshman year 30 years ago, my life had completely changed. 
The first man landed on the 1110011 and Woodstock rocked during my summer between high school and col­

lege. Yet those events paled 
in comparison to the impact the shootings of four student protesters had on mfl. When 
Capitol
my fellow students at Kent 
Comments
State were murdered for voicing their opposition to the Vietnam War, I saw that school meant nothing in relation to events in the real world. College undergraduates of that day knew that we would find good jobs after gradua­tion. But at that moment in the spring of 1970, life and principle had to take precedence. 
Overnight I went from a relatively conservative apple-pie-eating, American-flag-waving, patriotic supporter of the war to a hard line opponent. It was wrong for my government to kill unarmed students. It could have been me who was shot by American National Guard soldiers. But for the chance location of the event, it could have hap­pened at Notre Dame to my roommate, my class­matos or to my cousins in colleges across the nation. It was truly a black and white moment in mv life. 
Today 30-second sound bites try to make issues, candidates and political philosophies easy black and white choices for us. Yet nothing is ever pure­ly black or white in our political arena. The shades of gray may vary ever so slightly to reflect the various complexities of the choices we or our elected officials must make. 
An equal rights constitutional amendment in the 1970s was such an issue where seeing the color of the issue would have enlightened and benefited our nation. Abortion, gay rights, gun control mea­sures and Elian Gonzalez's custody battle are the most recent examples of such issues that have manv brilliant colors that, unfortunately, are blind to those unwilling to work for consensus by aban­doning their black and white rhetoric. 
Notre Dame's administration plays the black and white game to perfection. Recently though, I, for one, am puzzled. On one hand, gay students cannot organize a University-recognized group because their conduct is in conflict with the University's mission and character. Yet on the other hand, an alleged student rapist's conduct has not violated a code of conduct, bas not harmed a fellow student who refuses to press charges against him and does not violate either the University's mission or character. Can anyone explain to me how premarital heterosexual con­duct ... alleged date rape nonetheless ... differs? 
And while Notre Dame on more than one occa­sion disappoints a K-Mart Catholic like me, I have come to realize that the University of my youth is a constant ... still a Catholic Disneyland that pro­tects its young from thp, world. I can respect that it is an institution that chooses to rarely change, although l am confident that its graduates always change. I remain optimistic because change, cou­pled with a sense of humor, allows good people to opp,n themselves to the colorful world of possibili­ties that lie between black and white alternatives, 
Much water has run under my bridge to the 21st Century, but I can honestly say that humor has sustained me since graduation. Unfortunately, laugher alone does not define the elusive meaning of life. At Notre Dame, educators strive to develop intellect, character and values. Yet, all too often, 
i.n an effort to attain such lofty ideals, individuality is sacrificed for a herd mentality. One will eventu­ally learn in the real world -well beyond our Catholic Disneyland -that diversity and toler­ance am the strengths of our nation. Humor is the thread that ties civilized societies together. 
Good people practice every religion -some have no religious affiliation nor belief. Good peo­ple come in all colors and shapes, from every eth­nic heritage and geographical region. Some fairly good people strictly follow the literal letter of the Churr,h's teachings while other very good people barely agree with the Pope. Politically, good peo­ple are both conservative and liberal, Democrat, Independent, LaRouche and Republkan ­although I personally choose the former two par­ties over the latter! Most importantly, good people respect others, regardless of how repulsive others may seem. 
I find that beneath every good person lies a touch of humor. I also find that humor helps bond societies. How many times have we forgotten an incident, but remembered that we had a good time? How often have we only remembered one thing about a person by saying, "wasn't he or she a lot of fun?" 
The effective commencement speeches this year will be delivered bv those who have humor and believe that the future belongs to the hearts of good people who see color when others see gray. Notre Dame is a wonderful place for personal growth in the area of community service. Advising the Domers of 2000 to serve is preaching to the choir. However, urging this graduating class lo maintain a sense of humor and an open heart throughout their lives may be a tall task for them to undertake. 
After 30 years, I mostly remember the happy, funny times of dormitory life. But, I recollect suf­fering and sadness at the prospect of leaving the comfortable collegiate schedule with the fabulous facilities and diverse activities. I also recall the uncertainties and pressures that contributed at times to my misery. Yet through it all and throughout life after college, I kept humor as my crutch. Consequently, I did not begin acting like a 45-year-old the day after graduation, nor have I hardened like many of my fellow alumni. 
So, to the graduates of this economically won­derful year of 2000, a product of' the Clinton-Gore economy, I offer my best wishes and hopes for you. Thirty years from now in 2030, I hope you will still have a sense of humor and be able to see color while others see gray. I pray that the world will be a. place where ethnic cleansing and hatred of gender, race, heritage, sexual preference and religion does not exist. 
I expect the world -and specifically Notre Dame -to approach the complexities of issues without embracing the barriers of black and white choices. I am confident that, within one generation, our world will become more united in demanding human and equal rights in every cul­ture. A'i a result, I expect the nations of the world to recognize the colors of opportunity from the grays of rigid stagnation. Above all, I believe that 30 years from now, with your help, our nation will face each challenge with open thought. humor and a colorful good heart. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is serving in President Clinton's administration as a congres­sional and public affairs director and is currently assisting Vice President Gore's White House Empowerment Commission. This is his last col­umn this semester and his Internet address is Hottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint is accepting letters for the commencement edition. Please label letters "senior week" and send them to viewpoint.l@nd.edu 

page 14 Friday, April 28, 2000 
Notre Dame's o 
Scene stays up all night, wandering campus in a daze to uneart 
Observu Staff Report 
Seven Scene ,,vriters sacrificed sk'ep and sanity Tuesday. April 18 tu lrnad out unto campus to obsorve lato-nighL activity, the night owls and sen just what it is that drives poople into the early morning hours. What follows is a compilation of what Scene found lurking beneath the cover of 
night. . 
Midnight -Bond Hall 
As ·we approach tlw prestigious front steps, what do we hear but ··Boom. boom. boom, boom, I want you in my room'" A large cruv,d of young Archies has lilied thf\ front stairs of tho architecture headquarters. Soon the sounds or "Back that. Ass Up." one man's tribute to his impudent mult>, replace the Boom Boom song. A senior 011 the steps explains the late-night commotion. Apparently. the freshman pro­jects were due the next day. and fifth-year projects due the next week. "It's sort ofa tradition. We're breaking in the freshmen," the senior archie savs. 
"Without release like this, we would go insane:· Dan Pizanello says. 
As ifin reply another voice breaks through, "Less talk. more rock." 
12:07 a.m. -The Huddle 
Burger King looks like a ghost town -the first sign that night is coming. Silent and empty. The result of this abandonment: loads of people are quarter-dogging it. 
"BK is my first choice, but it's closed and I'm running out of flex points," junior P J DuWors reports. 
12:10 a.m. -God Quad 
A giggling couple is neckin' away. That guy must be telling her a really good joke. Wonder what that joke is? It must be dirty 'cause she stopped laughing. 
12:16 a.m. -The Huddle 
Scene approaches a group of guys who are stocking up on quarter dogs. 'Tve been working all day, and my brain's fried," junior Mike Crowe tells Scene. 
The perfect end to a day of studying ... a pair or the steaming hot dogs. 
12:30 a.m. -Fitzpatrick Hall 
Word has it that the engineers have a lounge on the second floor a mutation ofsenioritis." 
"I just want a beer," Andres, tho president emeritus of the lit choir, concludes. 
1:25 a.m. -The Huddle 
Oh, quarter dogs, daintiest of dainties. One can eat them likP potato chips, and that's how they're selling. The propriotor or the Mart has just refilled tho sil­ver tray with a stack of' the floppy. f'adcci beigf) treats anci a line has formnd. One bystander reports, "They leave your stomach l(Jeling: kind ofspicy." 
In Lhe background the big sercon TV is playing MTV's Spring Break, and Pvcryono is showing off thongs to Uw catd1y tune, "Show mo that thong." MPanwhilc, a disinternstPd woman vacuums thti littcrnd floor of J,aFortum,. 
1:38 a.m. -Bond Hall 
Oovrnstairs in Bond I !all. tlrn sophomore studio is about a quarter full of' chipper Archies plugging away at a huge pn~ject. A [\,Jountain Dew bottln collection sits quietly, a testament to tlrn sleepless. bleary eyed nights of Architecture students. Sophomore Diana Reising explains that the sophs are designing "a row house for the Lincoln Park neighbor­hood [of'C:hicagol. It's worth 40 percent of our grade ... and it's due the 29th." 
Despite the imminent pres­sure, the J\rchies are remarkably cheerful and take the extra work in stride. It seems to be agreed that so long as they are going to spend the rest of their lives in Bond, they might as well be cheerful about it. 
"I haven't been in my room for awhile ... like this whole semes­ter!" says sophomore Johnny Maas with a certain amount of pride. 
1:42 a.m. -Lafun Computers 
The lab is half full. One particu­larly stunning croaturc is finish­ing up her Spanish Review Sheet. Her name? Verinique Something­or-othcr. She looks up from her computer and says softly, "Tom­orrow, I'm gonna suffor for iL I ha,·c to be up at 6." She continues the conversatiun by relating her favorito lato-night incidrmt, "I usod to work at Edy's upstairs and one time this guy came in and freaked out and insisted on making his own milkshake ­vanilla. I le came right bnhind the counter and mado it. And he made a m!'sS. I'm going to hod. This is ridiculous. I'm a freak. Good night." Good night Veriniquc. 
1:48 a.m. -The Huddle 
According to management, 300 quarter dogs are sold per night. Somcont> is heard commenting that they are "not looking very green tonight." Presumably, a good thing. 
As Scene spent 1! 
with the nigh; everything fror hyper dancwl 
Reckers 
photos by: PETE~ 
&AMANJ 
1:49 a.m. 
-God 
Quad 
Seem~ witnesses two people getting very "close" behind the statue of Jesus. We decided thev probably · couldn't hear each other very weU. lik<i some of the other cou­ples we me. t around Lhe lake, because 

they had tn gnt very closr to·~oth­er to "talk" to each othm· l1111111 ... our only thought is, makmg out behind .Jesus' back? Isn't that a little creepy? 
1:58 -Lyons Arches 
We pass through the first sot of doors under the arch, a doorway that's notorious for post-parietals "socializing" with the opposite of Pitzpatrick and that-it's nearly 
always occupied. This word -
Lhe word that has it -is a lie. The lounge is !.her!' -and beauti­fully furnished with all modern amenitit,s, including big screen TV am! refrigerator -but thNo 
is no one here at all. Those lazv engineers. When will t.hr,y lf\ari1? 
12:31 a.m. -LaFun Computer 
Cluster 
There's not one PC available in the lab at this hour. "It's been busy," sophomore clustf'r consul­tant Margot Howard tells Scene. "The doser you get to finals. the more likely peo­ple are to stay 
until 2. At 2. "Now we arc makin,g out when we close, 
in the 'man trap' of
people some­times bog us to J,yons." stay open." Come2a.m., 
Beth Schaffer
desperate stu­
quad wanderer, 1:58 a.m.
dents must make the trek to DeBartolo. 
12:33 a.m. -Bond Hall 
Most o!' the Archies are back inside now, hard at work. Deep in the basement of Bond Hall, a group of first year Archies toil over the construction of large papier-mache columns. summed up by Carrie Sweeney as "a large waste of paper and time." Plans for keeping the projec1s as dorm room decorations were discussed, but this may have been an effect of the overwhelming paint fumes. 
12:35 a.m. -LaFortune 
The basement after midnight consists of both intense crammers and casual socializers. which is interesting. but not exactly out of the ordinary. In the midst of it all, sophomore Elizabeth Emerson plows through her history text. With 100 pages to go, she's remarkably cheerful. "J usually go to the library, but I was looking for a change of pace," she tells Scene. The basement is certainly a change of pace from the library, but not an especially exciting one. 
12:37 a.m. -Badin Laundry Room 
There is one laundry-laden follow leaving as we walk in this roaring hut, but he was apparently the last to occupy the space. Half of the dryers arc still running, though, and the scent of dryer sheets and Tide are causing ha!­
lucinations of that SnugglA hear to appear. "Follow me," Snuggles' soft voice coos. "Abandon your God." llis furry p!Pas will not bP heeded. The genLie rumble of the dryer fills ti1e air, and the clock ticks. 
12:38 a.m. -LaFun Laundry 
Room 
We have to ask. Why laundry ... at Larun ... at this hour? Don't these people have auy work'1 
12:45 a.m. -Library 
Scene notes that tlio "fishbowl" 
is dclinitely closed for lhc evening. There isn't much library trallic. The crowrls seem to bn thin­ning, and tlw maintrmancc crew emerges to vacuum the front foyer. The Fishbowl is 
dosed and looks sad and empty. The desk is all locked up so no one can check out books any­more. 
Evnrvone who is thorn seems to be working hard -another sur­prise, since the second floor is notorious for socializing. Al first, we're hesitant to approach these fervent learners (the vibes aren't the best), but we force ourselves to chat with a solo studier who's immersed in an econ book. 'Tm studying for finals," says sopho­more Jack Palma, almost apolo­getically. "I really don't have any other exams until then." 
Oh, that we all had such devo­tion to our studies! 
12:52 a.m. -Library Basement 
Senior Denice Rivera is working on a group project for theology (although interestingly, she's alone), "probably until we get kicked out," she says. We? "It's quiet down here, but you can talk," says Rivera, explaining her choice of study location. Talk to whom•) 'There's some weird food over there," she notes, gesturing in the direction of the vending machines along the walls. Sure enough, mixed in with regular fare like Doritos and pretzels are such delicacies as a pre-wrapped country fried steak sandwich that appears to have been around awhile. General consensus of' those present is that we'd take 
the lluddlemart any day, although the rntro decor of the basement almost makes up for the rnvolting food choices. 
1 a.m. -Carroll Hall Lawn 
Andres and Shaun are having a talk outside, sit­ting on picnic tabl0.s. They are procrastinating. 

"Iasl night I bad this paper due-I typed one paragraph of' HS and f was TIHED!" Andres says. " This is bad -it's not just senioritis, it's 

NSIDER 
O
THE Friday, April 29, 2000 BSERVER 71st Annual Blue and Gold Game 

PETER RICHARDSON/The Observer Seniors Brock Williams (left) and Tony Driver return to Notre Dame Stadium on Saturday after serving suspensions last season. In their final year, they have one more chance to fulfill expectations and lead the Irish secondary after a lackluster 1999 campaign. For more on this dynamic duo see pages 4 and 5. 
KICK-OFF FORECAST
INSIDE Players to watch....page 2 Irish insight.. ........page 3 
i 
f 

gametime: 1 :30 p.m. 

Around the nation..page 7 
weather: partly cloudy, 
highs in the low 60s 
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, April 29, 2000 
. 
. 
Players to Watch 
• . 
text by TIM CASEY 

No. 60 Darrell Campbell: Only a 
sophomore, Campbell is currently penciled in 
as a starting defensi\e end along with Irons. 
Not bad for someone who has yet to play a 
second of college football. His combination of 
size (66-foot-4, 270 pounds) and speed give 
the Irish a pair of talented pass rushers. Only No. 20 Gerome Sapp: 
time will tell if' he can produce on the field. When ho signed with the Irish in 1999, Sapp was regarded as the top free safety prospect in high school fool.ball. But instead of making an immediate impact, Sapp learned the college game 
No. 3 Arnaz Battle:
from seniors Deke Cooper and 
Battle will enter the 2000 sea­
A'Jani Sanders. Now, after mov­
son as thfl biggest question
ing to strong safety, Sapp is in 
mark on the offense. Ilc's
position to be a major contributor 
shown his ability to run the ball,to the Irish defense. 
evidenced by a 76-yard touch­down run against Kansas in last year's opener. But can he pass the ball well enough to add bal­ance to a run-dominated attack? A strong showing on Saturday may distance himself from backup Gary Godsey and the four incoming freshman
No. 44 Grant Irons: quartArbacks.
A campus favorite, Irons 
was busy in the offseason. 
In addition to lifting 
weights to bulk up to 275 
pounds, Irons also ran for 
the senior dass council as 
a vice presidential candi­
date. Entering his senior No. 35 David Miller/No. 13 Nick Sctta/Matt McNew: Being the Notre Dame kicker is not the most desirable job in college football. Connect on your
season, the defensive end field goals and extra points and you won't be booed. But if you miss, you may become wHI be looked upon as a the most despised man at Notre Dame. Just ask Jim Sanson. This lucky trio will beteam leader. 
battling for the placekicking job this fall. "There's going to be a lot of competition at 
that position," head coach Bob Davie said. "I'm anxious for Saturday when there's 
people in the stands to see how that things go." 


NO COUPON NECESSARY! 
FREE DELIVERY 
ON CAMPUS! 
South Bend Elkhart 52750 U.S. 33 North (East of Ironwood) (N. of Cleveland Rd.) 
1832 Cassopolis
NOTRE DAME AREA SERVING ST. MARY'S 
143-1111 106-8888 143-111 
~ p~1\Q
m ,_. , .¼·••-, -~• 
a:·'.,
Girt£~~ .. l~l6@
® 
Friday, April 29, 2000 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
IRISH INSIGHT 
Sports Illustrated inconsistent in criticism of Irish 
Is Notre Dame football dead? 
Sport<; Illustrated seems to think it is. In its issue that came out Thursday, SI spent 10 pages bashing Notre Dame for having academic standards that were too high, playing schedules that were too tough and having a coach described as not "worth a s-" byan anony­mous NFL personnel man. 
Sports Illustrated is blasting NotrP Dame for one thing: hold­ing athletes to a standard equal to that of the nigular student body. 
Is this a bad thing'/ 
Sports lllustrated wags its fin­ger at Notre Dame fur requiring that every freshman football play­er is able to complete the course of study required for all fresh­men. What a novel idea! Making sure that every student-athlete lives up to both the athlete and the student part of his name should not be a rarity in the world of college athletics. 
Rather than asking if Notre Dame football is dead, shouldn't we be asking if college football is dead? 
Notre Dame assistant provost for enrollment Dan Saracino said in the article, "It's not my goal to make the coaches happy." 

v\!hy should it be Saracino's job to make coaches happy? Sports lilustrated has written plenty of articles in the past criticizing schools who let the athlAl.ic department push around profes­sors and academic administrators to let athletes slide academically. In l 998, Sports Illustrated embar­rassed Ohio State with its article about star linebaf'.ker Andv Katzamoyer's joke of a schedule and failing grades. lt also criti­dzed Minnesota for head basket­ball coach Oem Haskins' bullying of admini,;;trators and professors that led to ½ide spread academic fraud by the lvlinnesota basketball team. 
But SI also criticizes Notre Dam~ with its high academic standards for not bowing down to athletic pressure and accepting students that might not be able to hand.le the course load under the Golden Dome. 
According to Sports illustrated, you should lower your standards for athletes so that it is signifi­cantly below that ofthe general student body population, but when those low standards lead to wide spread corruption in your athletic department, you are an evil and corrupt school. Makes sense to me. 
Next Sports illustrated goes after Notre Dame for playing a tough schedule. Maybe playing Texas A&M, Nebraska, Purdue and Michigan State to open 2000 is suicide hut ifyou want to be the best, you have to beat the best. Would a few cream puffs help the Irish win that extra game or tvvo to earu a bowl bid? Probably. But if Notre Dame, or any team i'i really bowl worthy, it will earn i1s bowl bid against quality opposi­ticm. Plus, it is expected that Notre Dame ,!\,ill play a strong opponent every week. For every service academy. thA Irish play a national title contender. vVho did Virginia Tech beat last year'? Miami and ... nobody. Don't get me wrong, Virginia Tech was an excellent football team but give the Hokics a real schedule and the closest they get to the Sugar Bowl is eating some Frosted Flakes for breakfast. 
So playing tough opponents and having high admission standards has caused Notre Dame to fail on the football field according to Sports Illuslrated. Has Nol.re Dame failed or has college foot­ball failed'! 
\-Vhat was the most memorable story from this past seac;on? 
It wasn't Florida State's run to the national title. It was the Seminoles run from the law. Every time you turned around, another Florida State player was getting in trouble with the law and Bobby Bowden was making up an excuse. 
IfPeter Warrick wasn't robbing department stores, Sebastian Janikowski was bribing police officers. Is this what college foot­ball has become? Bowden spent more time thinking up excuses for his goon squad he calls a foot­ball team than he did drawing up plays. 
Felonies and general disregard for the law is rationalized by the Bowden because "Boys will be boys." 
And Seminoles will be crimi-

KEVIN DALUM/The Observer 
Bob Davie heads a Notre Dame football program with high academic standards that has come under fire from critics. 
nals. line that looked so bleak last year 
If Sports Illustrated wanted to will blossom into a solid wall of do an article about why the Irish granite this year. stunk worse than my dirty laun-And ifthey don't'? dry last year it should have Sports Illustrated did get one focused on three things: a defense thing right when they blamed Bob that couldn't cover my grand-Davie for the decline of Notre mother, a line that couldn't block Dame football. my little sister and a coach that is We'll just see ifhe is still in way over his head. around next spring for Sports 
Saturday we will get to see if illustrated to write another arti­those problems are fixed. Maybe de. we can find out ifthe return of Brock Williams and Tony Driver The views expressed in this col­will give the secondary tl10 ath­umn are those ofthe author and leticism it desperately lacked last not necessarily those of The year. Maybe the inexperienced Observer. 
ore ame vs. 
Orlando, Florida October 14, 2000 
~il1F~ . 
> ~<t..~1t. or1da 
"<(~ 
Official PackageIncludes: 
Disney Accommodations 0 Bus Transfers 0 Disney Theme Park Passes O Game Ticket O 
Pep Rally at Disney-MGM Studios 0 &much more 
.. 
-------+Im mi~ ........ ..,_ --~~-.............-·, -:u,,J 1'9Cf"~-­

page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, April 29, 2000 
Williams returns as backbone of Irish secondary 
. Davie pleased with cornerback's performance at • spring practice 
By KEVIN BERCH OU Spores Wricer 

Williams 
Standing just inside the gates of hallowed Notre Dame Stadium speaking with newly position: cornerback reinstat0d defonsive back Brock year: senior Williams makes one feel a bit 
awards: named to Super
like St. Peter because for 
Southern 100 by Atlanta
Williams, to be in Notre Dame 
Stadium is to be in heaven. Journal-Constitution, a 
He's excited he is to be back, third-team pick on all­giving the impression that it South team by Fox Sportsnearly killed him to be away. 
South,
'Tm thrilled to be back out 
notables: one ofsix rookies
there," Williams says. "It was 
tough being away for a whole to earn a monogram in 
year." 1997, started eight out of 
That year is over. Brock 
last 10 games in r998 
Williams is back and ready to resume his starting position at left cornerback, ready to lead a secondary thaL struggled in his Williams harbored thoughts ofabsence. 
giving up at first, possibly trans­"It's great to have him back," ferring, but his intensity wouldsaid head coach Bob Davie. 
not allow him to take a quitter's"He's a talented football player, 
way out. Instead he worked
and he's really stepped up in the 
even harder, ever intent on
secondary." 
reprising his sophomore suc­cess. 
A fall from grace 
½'hen Williams signed a letter 
Second chances 
of intent to play football at Notre Williams apologizes for hisDame out of Hammond Senior misdeeds, and comes across asHigh School in Hammond, La., 
being sincere. It seems obvioushe knew he was coming to foot­that this man loves the game too ball heaven. 
much to do anything that would Little did he know that various keep him from it. 
transgressions of University 
"Everything was my fault, andpolicies would combine to send I take responsibility for that,"him to a football hell. Little did Williams said. "It's all on me."
he know that he would be 
Instead of viewing the suspen­forced to watch the game he sion with resentment, Williamsloved so much from the side­likes to consider it a challenge.
lines, unable to help his team. 
In the long run, it will make himWilliams demonstrated early a better player, a bigger man.
in his stay at Notre Dame his "I think the Lord put that inability at the cornerback posi­there to make me take a look at
tion. His knack for man-to-man my life, and make me realize that I want to go out there and now, where I'll be able to go up of nickel defense, and there's a play and unbridled intensity that I had to work hard to turn a really be the top guy," Williams against the big-time receivers," lot of things I can do out of quickly caught the eye of the bad situation into a good situa­said. Williams says. "Throw in that," Williams said. "I can rush, coaches, and by his sophomore tion." He won't be settling for any­Gerome Sapp, Tony Driver and pass drop, make a ton of plays." year he was a starter. Williams has fought his way thing short of that. Ron Israel and we've got a tal­His coaches have been 
After starting eight games in back. He is once again practic­It seems like, on the field ented group." impressed.his second season, Williams was ing with the team, raising eye­Williams can get anything he Williams sees this year's sec­"Based on what we've seen in poised to have a breakthrough brows again with his quickness goes after. No player plays with ondary as more versatile than practice he would be our most junior season. That break­and emotional play. He knows more intensity, and no player last. talented coverage man," said through, however, never came. he's lucky to be back. He knows wants to succeed more. "I think the speed factor is Davie. 
What did come arrived like a "That's my strength," he said. important. Last year we had "What's fun about this profes­
that not everyone gets a secondblow to the stomach. He would chance. " I'm very intense. I go out there good players like Deke Cooper sion is you watch guys develop.not be playing this year they told "I look at it as a great oppor­and play with energy. When and A'Jani Sanders but they Just watching Brock Williams, him. All of his hard work was tunity that I need to take control everyone out there is tired, weren't very fast. This year with even though he hasn't played a for naught. He was banished, of. Last year I let that opportuni­someone has to step up and be me and Tony back we'll have a lot, he brings a lot to the table for a year, from his heaven. ty go. Now I have to make a the leader. I want to be that guy. lot of team speed plus experi­from a competitive standpoint," "It kind of makes you slap choice, do I seize this chance or I want to step up and energize ence," Williams said. Davie continued. yourself in the face," Williams 
do I let it go like I did in the the defense." Experience, Williams figures,
said. "You look at all the hard past," said Williams. "He brings as much attitude to will allow the team to do much work you put into it, the sum­"I've been through the bad the table as anyone on this more defensively. In addition to Last Shot mer training, and you think, times, now I can really appreci­team," Davie said. Sapp, Driver and Israel. Clifford Williams knows that this is his man, I want to give up." ate the chance I have," he Jefferson returns ready to make last shot. He anticipates that his 
To the casual observer, the added. an impact. Williams sees the postponed junior season will be suspension came as no great Williams' on-field rebirth will Focus on Improving anticipated emergence of his best yet. He knows he is surprise. Williams was suspend­be accompanied by a change in Though not a single down of Jefferson as critical to the lucky to be back in heaven; he ed the previous spring after his jersey number. After wear­football has been played, this team's success. hated so much to be banished to being arrested, making his sec­ing No. 38 his first two years, he year's secondary is already "He defferson] had his critics hell. The talent, along with the ond suspension more of a cumu­will switch to No. 1. much better than the group that last year, but he's more experi­intensity, is present and lative punishment. was torched by Stanford's Troy enced. He'll be ready to go and Williams is poised to seize the
"It's a number I used to wear
"It was a combination of as a kid, but I haven't had it Walters in its final game last that should allow us to play opportunity that lies ahead. things," Williams said. "I had a since then because other guys year. more man to man coverages," The security guards shut the bunch of parking tickets, and always had it," Williams says. Along V\ith Williams, the sec­Williams said. "We've had some stadium gates and usher out the then the last straw was a pari­Though he doesn't like to ondary will benefit from the good practices, and I think it's media as interviews are finshed. etal violation. I went into anoth­admit it, Williams means to send return of Tony Driver, who wiII gone well so far." This time Williams is not asked er guy's room for like five min­a message by donning the num­play defense exclusively. Williams is determined to to leave. He has learned his utes, and there were a few girls bc r one. He wants to be the Williams is excited about the make things happen any way he lessons. in there. Then the RA came in best. group's potential. can. Brock Williams is in heaven to and asked for all of our names. 'Tm making a statement in "My game is at a level, right "They'll have me playing a lot stay.
That kind of ended it." 

birthdate: August 11. 1979 a word to describe him on the improve as a football player is: hometown: Hammond, La. field: aggressive mental ability
up close & 
major: College ofBusiness a word to describe him off the if he could play another 
Administration field: crazy position on the other side of 
dimensions: 5-foot-ro, 190 the area he would like to other the ball it would be: receiver
personal 
pounds than Notre Dame Stadium, his the people who have helped greatest athletic moment: a favorite stadium in which to him the most since he's
WITH BROCK WILLIAMS 
1 oo-yard interception play football: Tennessee ·s been at Notre Dame: his return Neyland Stadium parents 
Friday, April 29, 2000 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 
Driver aims for strong return after suspension 
By TIM CASEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Tony Driver picked up the tele­phone in his Keough Hall dorm room and dialed a friend's num­ber in the early morning hours of Sept. 14, 1998. He made a deci­sion, a decision that ultimately started the constant public ques­
tioning of Driver's character and position:.free safety his commitment to Notre Dame. year: senior 
"I called my friend up at 4 in awards: Parade, Reebok and the morning and I'm like Tm first-team USA Today prep gonna leave right now,"' Driver All-American, named to 
said of that day. ··r was like Tm gone.' I'll sit out a year then play Atlanta Journal-Constitution tailback in Division 1-AA. I was Super Southern 1 oo like 'if I want to get beat, I'll go to notables: Led Irish in kickoff UConn State or something." returns in 1998, made two 
Just two davs before Notre 
Dame lost to Michigan State 45-key interceptions in the final 
23. dropping to 1-1 on the sea-two minutes to lead Notre son. Driver made 10 tackles Dame over Purdue in 1998 

against the Spartans in only his second game ever at strong safe­ty. 
But now, less than 36 hours later, Driver had Pnough. Enough of the losing. Enough of SV\itcrnng positions. Enough of lhc strin­gent rules and academic standards at Notre Dame. 
So Driver and two friends from Keough drove 250 miles to Louisville, Ky., Driver's hometown, to consult with his mother and guardian, to determine Driver's future. 
"I talked to my boys [at home and at other schools] and they weren't doing any­thing," Driver said of his decision. "I was still adjusting to school, those 10-15 page papers. Here there's just a load, a lot of work you have to do. You're putting in 20 hours of football a week then you come back in your room after you eat at 8 and you're tired. But you've still got work to do. After awhile you get into a routine. But it's hard getting into that routine when you first come in, when you're not used to that type ofwork load." 
That day in September of 1998 was the culmination of Driver's difficult transition from Male High School to Notre Dame. 
Before he came to Notre Dame, Driver was everybody's All-American, the type of player that was atop all the recruiting rankings. He was named first-team USA Today. Parade and Reebok All-American after rushing for 3,460 yards and 48 touch­downs in his high school career. He had the size (6-foot, 200 pounds), the speed (he was the Kenturkv 100­meter state champion as a junior) and the hype to attract the attention of every college pro­gram in the country. 
But despite the accolades, Driver remained the sanie person, the second old­est of five children, the same kid that played freshman ball only three years ear­lier. 
"In high school everyone knew me then all of a sudden, junior and senior year, I was an All-American," Driver said. "But still everyone knew me just as Tony. When I came here no one ever saw me before but every magazine in the world had me as a Parade All-American and that I would be playing every year [at Notre Dame]. So people [here at Notre Darnel were like 'Oh 
•Tony'." 
"Freshman year everyone wanted to talk so much football -I wanted to talk about something different, like basketball or baseball, anything other than football. It [the attention] is something you get used to real quick." 
Most people here knew Driver as the crown jewel of new head coach Bob Davie's first recruiting class. They may have even known that Driver spurned Florida State, after giving a verbal commit­Driver's classmate Darcey Levy returning as well as some incoming freshmen. And they knew they needed Driver. one of the team's best athletes. on the field. 

"You hear it [the rumors ot switching to defense] in the papers first," Driver said. "Then the coaches told me about the change a couple weeks before the spring." 
Initially, Driver practiced at free safety but when he came back in the fall he was switched to strong safety. He started the year as a backup to senior Benny Guilbeaux. But when Guilbeaux was hurt in the first 10 minutes of the first quarter against Michigan State, Driver was thrust into the game. His performance was one of the rare highlights in an otherwise dismal performance by the Irish. After the game, a distraught Driver needed time to think, time to consider what had happened in the past year. So he went 
that for 300,000 years and they're going to stay ~!ke that. You've just got to obey them. 
In addition to the suspension, Driver's reputation was now questioned more than ever. Everyone on campus knew of the lat­est transgression. 
And they weren't about to let Driver for­get about it. 
"It was a big distraction," Driver said of the questioning. "I just tried to be Tony, hanging out, going to the pre-game parties but with all the questions it was difficult. I tried to [go to the games]. too but when I went out there I got a thousand questions. So I sat at the end of my couch, watching the games, hollering at the TV." 
It was another obstacle, one he wished he never had to to experience. But nonetheless, a mistake that he was respon­
sible for. 

Tony Driver, seen here in Notre Dame's loss to Boston College, will play a major role In the secondary next year. 
ment, to sign with the Irish. They had read that Driver would be the next great tail­back at Notre Dame, following Vagas Ferguson, Jerome Bettis, Autry Denson and all the others. 
Besides dealing with instant fame on a football-crazed campus, Driver also realized that all the high school hype doesn't translate into guaranteed success on the field. In his first season Driver played behind Denson, carrying the ball just 35 times for 125 yards and three touchdowns. But he was only a freshman, with three more years to fulfill the expectations. 
Then came the spring before his sophomore year when the future star tailback was switched to defense. The coaches decided they were set at tailback with Denson and home. "Last semester every­
"Last semester 
"It was trials and tribu­thing that could pop up lations," Driver said of the everything that could pop did," Driver said. "I reason for leaving. 'Then up did. I think I can take think I can take any­my mom put some sense thing right now. There
anything right now." 
back in me." was so much drama on 
Heeding the advice of and off the field. his mom and guardian. Tony Driver Sometimes I felt like I Driver returned to campus free safety never wanted to play 
a few days later, eager to start anew. The next weekend, against Purdue, Driver played the best game of his short career. From his strong safety position, Driver intercepted two of Drew Brees's passes in the last two minutes. His first interception, with 1:39 remaining in the game set up Jim Sanson's winning field goal in a 31-30 Irish victory. 
Driver finished his sophomore campaign fourth on the team with 58 tackles and was the team's most consistent performer on special teams. 
But Driver wanted more, he wanted to get a shot at tailback. With Denson gradu­ating, the position was open. The coaches granted Driver's wish but there were no guarantees of playing time. Last season, Driver shared the tailback duties with Tony Fisher and Julius Jones. He started off the season against Kansas gaining 45 yards on 13 carries. As the season progressed, how­ever, Driver's role diminished as Fisher began to emerge as the top back. 
The Irish were losing, Driver's carries were down but the worst was yet to come. 
During fall break, a few days after a 25­24 victory over USC, Driver was caught breaking parietals. Because he had been warned on more than one occasion, Driver was dismissed from Keough Hall. 
He was also suspended from playing football for the remainder ofthe season. "I knew the rules and I broke them," Driver said. "The rules here have been like 
football again. But I 

fought through it." 
Here Driver is, six months later, trying to piece together the final chapter of his col­lege career. He's back on defense, at free safety, his third position since he came here in the fall of 1997. He's no longer the naive freshman with so much promise. 
"He's done everything we asked," Davie said. "He does so much for your football team when you talk about all the special teams and on defense. He brings a lot to this team. It's good to have Tony Driver back." 
Entering his final season, Driver has some unfinished business. He'll graduate with a degree in sociology in May 2001 and dreams of playing in the NFL. But before he thinks about those goals, he plans on making his mark at Notre Dame, to show that the pre-college expectations were not just hype. 
"Last year was just bad," Driver said. "We want to get to the old Notre Dame [this season], when people were scared to come here, when the fight song was blast­ing, when 110 people on the sidelines were obnoxious." 
Regardless of where he ends up follow­ing next season, the struggles of the past three years have changed Driver. 
"It makes you grow up being at a University that expects so much of you," Driver said. "You see life in a whole differ­entway." 
birthdate: August 4, 1977 other than Notre Dame favorite NFL team: Dallas hometown: Louisville. Ky. Stadium, his favorite stadium Cowboys
up close & 
dimensions: 6-foot-1, 217 in which to play football: the people who have helped pounds Michigan Stadium him most since he's been at
personal 
the area he would like to greatest athletic moment: Note Dame are: Kevin improve as a football player is: scoring in Michigan Dansby, Darcey Levy and 
WITH TONY DRIVER concentration Stadium Holly Ray 
_ page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, April 29, 2000 
============================================================================================================= 

ft 
~ 
ft 
. ~ 
. ft
I 
' 
. Im 
ft ft ft ft ft ft ft ft 

ft 
~ 
ft 
~ 
LOOKING FORA BIG MOVE THIS FALL??? 
SEEWHAT 

IS ALL ABOUT 

-

ORSTOPBY: 1801 IRISH WAY 
ONLYASHORTWALKFROMCAMPUS!! 
ft ft ft 
ft 
ft ft 
ft 
ft ft 
~ 
ft 
ft 
ft ft 
ft 
ft ft 
ft 
ft 
ft 
ft 


Friday, April 29, 2000 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 7 
AROUND THE NATION 
Trojans highlight pack of nation's spring games 
. Palmer throws well in return from broken collarbone 
Associated Pres, 
LOS ANGELES 
Carson Palmer and Malaefou MacKenzie highlighted USC's spring intrasquad football game before an estimated 4,000 at the Col.iseum on Saturday. 
Palmer. who was sidelined for much of tho 1999 season with a broken collarbone, com­pleted J4-of-21 passes for 155 yards and connected with Marcell Allmond for a 17-yard touchdo'½'ll pass. 
l\lacKenzie, coming back from a son> hamstring. rushed for 87 yards on 10 carries. Sophomore tailback Sultan McCullough ran for 26 yards on eight carries and Miguel Fletcher added 33 yards on 11 tries. 
Walk-on junior tailback Mark Gomez had 41 yards on 12 attempts. 
"I'm pleased," USC Head Coach Paul Hackett said. "We're started back on the right track. The offense was sloppy early on, but then we got a rhythm going and put together some nice drives." 
Defensively, senior safety Ifeanyi Ohalete led all players with 13 tackles, and sopho­more defensive tackle Bernard Riley had seven. 

. Saban twists things up, gives media helm in LSU spring game 
BATON ROUGE, La. 
Don't tell LSU head coach Nick Saban that college football coaches are sup­posed to be all busi­ness and can't have a little fun every once in a while. 
For the Spring Football Game Saban has added a new twist, where the media will be given a chance to step into the shoes of the individuals they spend most of their time criticizing. 
Each team will have three members from the print media as assistant coach­es, with a LSU professor serving as the head coach. 
Saban will serve as the commissioner for the game and will turn the tables on the reporters after the game, as he will ask the questions. 
"So if your guy drops a touchdown pass at the end of the game and your 

team loses, I'm going to ask you why did he drop lhe hall," Saban said. 
The LSU seniors will be split up for the game and they will be able to draft their respective teams from the 
remaining players. 
"It's a 'steak and beans' game," Saban said. "On Monday if your team wins you get steak with the team; if you're team loses you get beans." 
Ile said the idea will become an annu­al event, with next year's coaches com­ing from television and the following year coming from radio. 
While tho first-year coach may have been in a lighthearted mood after 
Sophomore cornerback Darrell Rideaux came away with an interc:eption and Matt Childers recovered a fumble. 
"Our defense looked fast and there was some good coverage in the secondary." Hackett said. 
However, USC's kicking game cast a dark shadow over the otherwise impressive showing. 
Sophomore place-kicker David Newburv missed three field goals (a pair of 42-yarders and a 37-yarder) and senior David Bell missed a 31-yarder. 
"I was disappointed iu our kicking,'' Hackett said. "We have a long way to go there." 
In the split-squad scrim­mage, the Cardinal team, led by senior quarterback Mike Van Raaphorst, held on to a 14-10 victory against the White team. 
Van Raaphorst connected with sophomore Steve St1wenson for a touchdown and was 11-of-22 for 95 yards with one interception. 
The Trojans will conclude spring practice on Saturday before opening up the 2000 season against Penn State on Aug. 27 in the Kickoff Classic in East Rutherford, N.J. 
"Everybody wants to play Penn State tomorrow," Pahner said. "But we need some work. It felt good to be out there today. But it will take a while before I get back to the form of last year. I need to get my tim ­ing back. I missed some easy passes today." 
. High school record­holder Walker comes into own for Seminoles 
T ALlAHASSEE, Fla. 
Freshman quarterback Fabian Walker, like most of his teammates, stood exhausted in the middle of the field following his first Garnet and Gold spring scrimmage. His shoulder pads and helmet were unbuckled and unstrapped and both rested on the grass at his feet. 
The quarter­back, who as a 
"This game was good for the young guys to get in there and get some real­time action," Bowden said. "Javon Walker and Kendyll Pope, especially, they really showed they have the ability to play." 
Javon Walker made his bid to be the No. 1 receiver with the loss of Peter Warrick and Ron Dugans to graduation. The top junior college receiver last sea­son, proved why he was as highly tout­ed as he was, second on the Gold team with two receptions for 70 yards as well as scoring one touchdown. 
The other, Pope, 
didn't wait for this 
Wednesday's practice, during the work­out he and his assistants were still work­ing with a group of players who are try­ing to learn a new philosophy. 
Saban said what is ailing his team at this point is the players have not had the ability to execute in game-like situations, which prevents team chemistry from developing. 
"[The player] has to recognize what the situation and formation is," he said. "Then they have to be able to comnmni­cate, apply it and get confidence playing together with each other." 
Saban said having experienced players boosts a team's confidence because those veteran players are not intimidat­ed in tough situations. 
With one receiver, Ed Dangerfield, lost for the spring after last Saturday's scrimmage and two more, Josh Reed and Reggie Robinson, trying to recover from injuries, the Tigers are in desper­ate need for healthy hands. 
"One of the things we haven't been able to keep a lot of continuity in is the receivers," Saban said. "Guys are mak­ing progress, hut we haven't had the continuity I think we need to develop consistency with the quarterbacks." 
He said he has been pleased with the progress of the quarterbacks, as both Josh Booty and Craig Nall faced blitzes 
"So ifyour guy drops a touch­down at the end ofthe game and your team loses, I'm going to ask you why did he drop the ball." 
Nick Saban LSU football coach 
from the defense on Wednesday. 
Saban said anoth­er aspect that wor­ries him is the lack of strength on the defensive line. 
"When you've got so many guys that arc young, inexperi­enced, haven't played and got moved there from 
other positions you just got to let those guys go through a process of develop­ment that they feel comfortable and con­fident in what they are doing," be said. 
Saban said before spring practices began he and his staff ranked each play­er at the position they were at to see what areas nt>eded help and which ones were overfi!Ied. One of the skinnier areas was up front on defense. 
scrimmage to show
high school "/just want to get out onto 
his mettle. Thesenior set the 
the field and play. I'm going
Georgia state freshman linebacker record for pass to absorb as much as I can, has thrived since arriving at FSU after
efficiency and as fast as I can, to prepare
yardage, was qualifying academi­
me to be ready whenever." cally this semester. 
answering ques­tions from a The game was also large contingent Fabian Walker an open tryout for of reporters and the interior defen­
FSU freshman quarterback 
sive line. 
writers patiently, tirelessly. 
"I feel very good about Fabian Walker," FSU head coach Bobby Bowden said. "It was good to see him out there executing and leading the team down the field. I'm really taken by his ability this early. He just needs to keep on improving." 
"I just want to play," Fabian Walker said. "I just want to get out onto the field and play. I'm going to absorb as much as I can, as fast as I can, to pre­pare me to be ready whenever," 
Although the Seminoles are the reign­ing National Champions, Walker's story is similar to many of those who played in the spring's game -where their level of inexperience matches their desire to play. 
The outcome of the game itself was tertiary, making the 28-28 final score that much more appropriate. Aside from the legendary head coach Hear Bryant's philosophy on ties, the final scrimmage, highlighted by two touch­down receptions from the tight ends and 92 yards rushing by Travis Minor, the spring successfully achieved its pri­mary task: exposure. 
"They have got the 
talent, they're just young," Bowden said. "A lot of the guys are just so young. What they have to do now is learn how to play the position and that will come with experience." 
The group of tackles, led by Kevin Emmanuel and Rian Cason, struggled to establish the same inside presence that became the custom from the now-grad­uated Corey Simon and Jerry Johnson. 
"The key for this team though, wil1 be the offensive line," Bowden said. "We've got great receivers and runners and quarterbacks, but the line is so deep and so talented. I reallv believe that if everything else came· apart, the OL could carry this tean1." 
The line on Saturday provided gaping holes for the backs and solid protection for the quarterbacks. Each team, the Garnet and the Gold, effectively ran the ball because of what at times looked like an overpowering line. 
"But you can always get better on the football field," sophomore running back Davey Ford said. "If you're not always looking and working to get better than you start to get complacent." 
O
THE page 8 BSERVER Friday, April 29, 2000 
...: 



Junior-to-be Arnaz Battle takes over the starting quarterback position with the graduation of Jarious Jackson. Saturday will be his first chance to strut his stuff. 
SPRINGING INTO ACTION 
photos by LIZ LANG The Notre Dame football team starts its road towards the 2000 football season Saturday with the 71st annual Blue-Gold game. The Irish have been practicing throughout April to prepare for the outing. 

Tony Fisher (12) holds onto the ball whether in the air or on the ground. The tailback wlll enter his Junior season of eligibility this fall. 


e 
e 
Friday. April 28, 2000 page 15 
=====================================================================-=-=_:=._-_-_-_-_-_--::::::::::::::::::::::::­
exactfy what the night owls do between midnight and 6 a.m. 
many Notre Dame students. But seems extrnmdy out this follow drives to tlin Huddle of' place. No one here and pays in exact changl' iwery seems to bf' in a dam;­week (i.e. no Flex PoinL-; = not a ing sort of mood . student). According to Urn laugh­.Junior Andy ing cashier, "He's incn!dibly Ilollinann takes a sketchy. We think lu~·s a townie." breuk from typing on Oh townies. When will you learn? his laptop to share his 
opinion ofth<' music. "I think it's terrible.
2:09 a.m. -Reckers 
llorrid1" he exclaims.
The television snlnction is ques­
"It ruined the
tionablP tonight: "Hicky Lakn" ­
mood." adds his friend 
"My relatives are sleeping with 
junior Patrick Parks. 
mv man!" Someone is heard mut­trering "yours loo''" If' Her.kers is any indicution. there isn't too 2:30a.m. much drunken rnvelry going on A couple is appar­tonight. 'V!ost students hem are ently nE>cking in "The chatting, although a fow have Hand of God Tree," m;tahli5hnd thcmsolves with that big ol' hickory lwadphmms and permanent gri­dovvn by thn grotto. maces in front of' t.lwir laptops. Well. ad.ually, sorry 
-now they're argu­ing up there. Hey! You
2:1.3 a.m. -Bond Hall 
kids! You don't climb
A group of first-year students 
into a tree for a spat!
are in the lobby still slathering 
You climb into that tree 
away at their project. There are 
for some neckin'.
donuts everywhlm~. and before 
That's a neck.in' trne.
Scone's eyes a tiny r.o-ed paint 3:25 a.m. -DeBartolo Lounge 4:25 a.m. -Outside Reckers light has erupted. Senior Joe Everyone is kicked out of the A light shines in a room on the Smith enters the building in a 2:32 a.m. -The Grotto lab at 3:30 a.m. for cleaning. second floor of Dillon. It is discov­
bunter's cap '"ith a look on his The grotto is empty but very Junior Sean Markey is eating a ered that these guys have made a 
face that says -hey, let's do well-lit. For some reason, every random pizza that has been doorbell that can be rung from sonrn architecture. "This is where bird on campus is awake, and placed in the stand that normally the ground. Scene pushes it, and I live." he reports, and with his they're the only noise around. holds Observers. When asked immediately two guys appear at shoulders stiffening he adds, "I There are no footsteps or cars -the second floor •,vindow. "How
what he was doing, he respond­
am an Archie major." Looking nothing but the singing of birds. do you have a doorbell?" we
ed, "Nourishing the mind and the 
around at the fairly quiet second And the sounds of' neckin'. shout.
body."
floor, Smith rellecL'i on projects Senior Jason Conrad replies: past. "I remem­"We're good. We're engineers."
2:41 a.m. -Quad outside 
3:45 a.m. -Reckers
ber sophomore Ah, that explains it. "He hasn't 
Reckers The music in here is making
year -for our slept in 48 hours," senior Bret 
Two young men are staggering the ears swell. The employees
row house we Sedenka says of his friend. "I 
e night frolicking stayed up 10 to in this direction. "Ile!\ yes we'll refuse to turn it down, saying, "It enjoy 5 a.m." 14 days in a answer some questions," one of helps us work." Their true moti­
owls, we found 
row. The best them reports. "We drink a lot of vation is too apparent though, lone studiers, to part of all that is beer, that's our favorite drink." crowd control. Or maybe sadism, 5:12a.m. The Virgin Mary appears to
"Whiskey sours." 
SDI I when you it's a tough call. One might as
o hardworking Casey Grabenstein. 
"Yeah, and whiskey sours.
all just pile in well brandish a knife and say, "I mployees. there. One time I We're mad Boat Clubbers. WE'RE find it comforting, that's all." 
fell asleep and I\V\AAD BOAT CLUBBERS!" one 5:21 a.m. -Bond Hall my friends all of them shreiks. Only two architects remain in
3:46 a.m. -Quads
RICHARDSON got up and "I loly s-dude, this is awe­the studio. Sophomore Rudy
A search party of five inter­
some." proclaims one. "WE'RE Mancilla lets us in vvith areplaced them­rupts our quiet walk across cam­
selves with MAD BOAT CLUB-bemused look on his face. "It's 
pus with a strong
alumni who BERS!" been 33 hours since I've slept," he
flashlight.
were visiting, "You smell him? "You smell him? he explains. lie doesn't smell "What are you
and that's what I 
doesn't smell of
of' alcohol. he looking for?" 
woke up to." 
snx. Tonight 5:36 a.m. -Debartolo Lounge 
smells of happi-alcohol. He smells of Scene asks.
is no excep­This room shelters one person
ness." lt turns out
tion. happiness."
2:21 a.m. -Reckers sprawled out asleep on the couch
they're getting a
Sophomores Scene decides to get the scoop and one woman huddled up and
head start on the
13eth from the late-night workers who 2:45 a.m. -out-Mad Boat Clubber typing away on her laptop. Now a
SUB Easter egg
Schaffer and report that "the funniest thing is guy with a huge mullet is walking
side Reckers On the quad, 2:45 a.m. hunt.
Mike Collins that these kids will stand in line A South Quad in and everything is good again. 
'Tm trying totell us they for 45 minutes for a smoothie." RA is chasing a win a Segawatched a The ladies then told about a 
duck. What are you going to do 5:45 a.m. -Reckers
Dreamcast," explains juniormovio Parli­group of guys who once tried to 
with that duck. RA, if you catch It is dead here. One guy 
Nelson Rivera, the aforemPn­er. walk out with a r.ouch. The ladies 
him? "Keep it and feed it," the remains, sipping a Coke. Scene's
tioned leader of the pack. They"And now think these same guys may have 
HA reports. 'TH name him Mr. way too tired to ask why. Even 
kindly throw back the eggs thatwe're mak­had something to do with the dis­
Bill. Because ol' his bill." those pulling all-nighters have 
they don't want.
ing out in appearance of a stall divider from 
lle's afler the duck again, gone home. Our eyes glaze over thn ·man the men's room. They got away 
"Look at him waddle. You won't to "I Dream of Jeannie" mnms. 
trap' or with this rnrn. Tim ht>st story was 4:01 a.m. -Reckers
waddle out of' this one. Woah! ­
Lyons," says about one of the infamous nudists Status report from NDSPD offi­
those things can really move 
5:56 a.m.
S<'hamir who apparently strippPd down by cer at Heckers -"Most of what
when they want to." Scene is done reporting! We'r1!
with u the bookcase and then (according we see about this time of night is
The HA returns. In a ctrunken. off to Nick's Patio to sharn stories
laugh. to the cashierI"lw didn't just run injury, theft and intoxication.
nonsensical slur he states, "We and giggle in that incohenmt,right out tlrn door, hi' ran all 0V<'r We're viewed as adversaries. but
c11me ba('k from 1 a.m. and the sleep-deprived way over nialthe placl'! Cp on the stagi~ and we're just trying to serve and
birds were chirping their minds food.
2a.m. everything, dancing around likP a protect. One time I saw some
out. I hate these morning birds.
Why docs crazy man. Then he ran right out nude roller bladers. And once a
Something wicked is nigh. Evil is 
tlw D1mw tlrn door. never came bark for his Sunrise
goose with an arrow throughcoming."
look quiltPd'' Why is it quilted'? I clothes." \Vlwn asked if' they triPd How I misspd thee, thou ball of'
him -grounded -everyone
hate llmt1 And why isn't the top of to catch him. the ladies chu.ckled hottest fire. To french toast and
helped take care of it."
thP lksilir-a lit up? It's got gold' and rr.plied. "Nah, we just stood 3:15 a.m. -Reckers bacon Scene scurries. back here and laughed. We've Scene mingles among the small 
4:09 a.m.
S()en it all." crowd. Upon hearing the word
2:05 a.m. -LaFun Scene sits in a sleep-dnprivtid "Observer," senior Jason Conrad So tired. A girl just walked by Andrew McDonnell, Amanda 
the table saying, "Peters. Greco, laura Kelly, Mary Anne
stupor and ingcsLs caffoine. But 2:27 a.m. -Reckers asks. "Who's in charge of whilo lwrn wn did learn from the Suddenly, without explanation, Crossword? Is it you'? Cause the Peters." But apparPntly she was Lewis. Casey Grabenstein, blasting music invades the answers are never right. And just looking for her friend sitting Jackie Ostrowski and Katie
I luddlP Mart workers that there is some guy who comes in every silence. Not only is it earth-shat­what's with Libra having all behind us whose name must be Sanders contributed to this 
article.
week for quarter dogs, not unlike teringly loud, but also the music these two-star days?" Peters. 


The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 28, 2000 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXIX 
Keyplay.com outscores tough competition to advance 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
Top-ranked Keyplay.com rared its stiffest compPtition of the tournament in No. I fi Sexual Frustration V. but even this opposition could not keep it tou close, as Keyplay advanced with a 21-11 victorv. 
The winning squad of Cas Schneller. Tom Dietrich, Paul Moorf', football player .John Teasdale and varsity basket­ba11 player Jimmy Dillon jumped out to an 11-4 lead, with their only troubles com­ing when they tried too much showboating and slam dunks. T,,asdale and Dillon each scored four in the first half, induding a couple of dunks. 
Dillon opened the second stanza scoring for Keyplay with a one-handed dunk on a fast break. Moore layed in a shot to give Keyplay a 13-5 leact. 
Dillon kicked into overdrive at times, looking like he had forgotten the conqrntition wasn't a Big East foe. His defense looked tough enough to grab a sleal against Uconn·s Khalid El-Amin. However, some of his moves probably wouldn't have flown bv Notre Dame coach Matt Doh-erty as Dillon missed a fancy layup and a fancy attempt to bounce himself the ball for a slam dunk. 
"We like Jimmy to throw down some stuff," Teasdale said. "I like to \l"atrh. \\"e trv to apt ('aSY shots..\nnime vo~ gPt'"into the final 16.· the cc,m­
petition gels a lot tougher." It was all Dietrich in the sec­ond half, as h~~ scored five of 
s.ix for Key play, throwing ctown shots on fast breaks, rebound putbacks and jumµers. 
The Sexual frustration V team of Notre Dame basketball player Skylard Owens. Kevin Hardy, Peter Stuhldreder, Nick Green and Josh Brumm returned home frustrated by the lopsided loss. 
"Teasdale's better than I th(}ugbt. He's just too big for us," Brumm said. "They're just overall better on talent. They're going to do well against anyone five-on-five down the line." 
Keyplay will face a group of freshmen it knows on and off the court in No. 8 Please Call Us RosAphus. Dietrich, Moore and Schneller all lived in Alumni when they were on campus, the dorm where four of the five Please Call Us Bosephus players live. Evan Maher of Please Call Us Bosephus said Dietrich, Moore and Schneller have been their unofficial big brothers this year, playing basketball with them by day and going out with them by night, giving a little added motivation to the matchup. 
Please Call Us Bosephus sent home Reggie McKnight, Brock Williams, Kevin McGrath. Jay Johnson and Harold Johnson of l\;o. 9 Like Whoa, handing them a 21-15 defeat. 
r-.1aher, Brian Ostick, Andy Bozzelli, Pat O'Brien and .Jason Sullivan for Please Call Us Bosephus fell behind 11-9 fnrent game. We had a at halftime after two made rospectable pnrformanc,i shots by Like Whoa's McCrath. though." But Please Call Us Bosephus S e c o n d -s e o d o d scored three straight baskets NDToday.com's B . .I. Kloska. a to take a one-point lead. walk-on for last year's varsity 
With the score tied at 13, basketball team. scored seven referees called an intentional first-half points as his tram foul on McKnight and Please ran off to an 11-:3 halftime Call Us Bosephus took full lead over Nunc dimittis. advantage. "II. kind of helps jump start 
"It would be nice to have our team, and then I draw a refs that were a little bit lot of attention, so I can dish it impartial and let the game be off to our othnr players," decided on the court," Kloska said." McKnight said. 'Tm not tttking "l think we wanted to make anything away from them suro that we established our­[Please Call Us s e Ives Bosephusl. They "There was a lot of e a r l y . " won the game out­NDToday's
motivation to get
right with their Todd Titus
bragging rights, but it
p I a y said. "We Congratulations to also hurts a little more haven't them, hats off to played from
to lose."
them and good down yet, so luck to them." I think 
The Alumni team John Hatzenbuehler that's going began to open up Morning Wood player to be our the game. It scored game plan." the next five N u n c points, and held off dimittis. led the competition down the by Keough llall rector Hev. stretch to make it to the Elite Tom Doyle and Moreau semi­Eight. narians Joe Miller, Scan 
"We got out of our slump, McGraw, Mike Floreth and and started hitting our shots," Sam Peters may have had God Maher said. "Defense is our on their side, but their prayers forte, and we got a lot of for a comeback weren't points off turnovers." answered. 
Like Whoa missed action Kloska, Titus, Mark Godish, from a couple of its players. Dave Mikolyzk and Tim A'Jani Sanders, Deke Cooper Muething made short work of and Benny Guilbeaux were all Nunc dimittis. Titus, Kloska, gone due to NFL camps. Mikolyzk and Godish combined 
"Obviously we didn't have to score eight of the first 10 the cohesiveness," McKnight points in tlrn second p1iriod, said. "With our other two play­giving them an insurmount­ers, it would have b(rnn a dif-able 19-5 lead. Muething and Godish finished of'I' tl1Pir oppo­sition. 
"They're awesome," McGraw said of NDToday. "Tlrny exe­cute rnally well, and thny play tough dcfonsc." 
It was a hard-fought battl!' between two scrappy teams as several players suffered bloody knees in the contest. 
"They w11re good sports," Titus said, "And they definitely played bard and aggrnssive." 
NDToday will face a sevcnth­ran ked F-Bombs squad that edged No. l O Mourning Wood 21-19. 
Dan Kirzeder, Doug Bartels, Sean McCarthy, Kevin O'N1\ill and /\ndy Sexton won out in a narrow contest among Morrissey Manor residents and former residents. 
"They stayed pretty close the whole game," Sexton said of Mourning Wood. "They just hustle and they scrap a lot." 
Mourning Wood, made up or John llatzenbuehler, Brett Gansen, Chris Bosco. Matt Panzer and Brandon Limbach. struggled with tho improved competition. 
"We got really tired because we hadn't played that tough or a game before," Hatzenbuehler said. "They just ~adJ every shot from out­side. 
The F-Bombs earned the right to boast to their Morrissey friends with tlw vic­tory. 
"There was a lot of' motiva­tion to gnt bragging rights," llatzenbunhler said. "But it also hurts a littln more to lose." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 \1.m. at the Notre Dame olt,ce, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is .3 p.m. Al classifieds musr be prepaid. The charge is 3 cems per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right ro edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing rdi111ds. 
WANTED: Part time sitter for two CHICAGO SUBLET: Need 1 person GIBSON LP THE COPY SHOP SIN Night!! kids Flexible hours. good pay, lo suble apt !or summer. Call the 234-6245 LaFortune Student Center walking distance lrom ND campus!! Bearx0946 Sepp, Tish, Colleen and Abby ...
NOTICES 
Transportation preferred. Starting 1987 Black Saab 900 High-Speed Copying S.J.N 
May 8th or 15th, preferably. COLLEGE PARK APT. FOR RENT In great shape. Need to sell! Color Copying THE COPY SHOP Possibility of job for academic year JUNE AND JULY. WILL PAY $2300 · negotiable. Resumes Not at Prometheus Lafortune Student Center tooI Call Carmen at 631-3815 or WATER BILL! W/D, CLEAN, GIRL Call S1acey: 634-2511 Business Cards Store Hours Nanni.2@nd.edu RENTED. 2B, 2B. CALL 243-2779 Fax Service @ B.C Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Mid MOVING SALE Desktop Publishing Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Summer Server Needed 2 bedroom, 2 bath College Park www.nd.edu/-abailey/moving_sale. & a whole lot more! Yo Cass, this one goes out to Sat: Noon-6:00pm Flexible Hours, Great Pay apartment for lease during summer html Pookie Sun: Noon-Mid Close to Campus session. Call Erin @ x4238 if inter-Prompt Pick-Up & Delivery Free Pick-Up & Delivery! K's Grill & Pub 277-2527 estec:L Mazda 66LX '90, air. sunroof, 4-dr. Call 631-COPY Hi Pookie Call 631-COPY great cond., $3300 We're open late so your order will PAID INTERNET INTERNSHIP: WANTED: 6 subletters for summer. Three lovely ladies ... with red marks be done on timeI Lead campus promotions for online 1022 Madison St. $300/month Beautiful brass bed, queen size, Fax it fast! on their stomach. 
com,iany negotiable. Contact Barb x1573 or with orthopedic mattress set and Fax ii fast! 1-888-420-9800x319, or Chene!! x2378. deluxe frame. New, never used, still Fax it fast! And the odd girl out. I'm never the adam@moneyformail.com in plastic. $235 219-862-2082 Sending & Receiving odd one out!
LOST & FOUND 
FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, PAI­WANTED: SUMMER SUBLEASE VATE BATH, PRIVATE KITCHEN, THE COPY SHOP I know CPR. Janel, do you know 
LOST: blue warmup jacket. left in Grad student needs 1 or 2 bdrm, 1 LAUNDRY, PHONE, 5 MIN. N of Lafortune Student Center CAP? Lafun. Please call Eric at x4606. bath. ale, non-smoke. Dan 4-3144 CAMPUS 
272-0615 Our Fax# (219) 631-3291 new man . PROFESSOR SEEKS SUMMER .....The FINAL issue of THE NANNY FOR ENERGETIC 4· HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 5-bed-OBSERVER is May 3rd."'" FULL COLOR Janel, your number is ..43277.. no,
WANTED YEAR-OLD BOY. MUST LIKE room, $1000/month, 2) 2-bedroom, The date of the commencement Copying 7237 ... no ... 
HORSES AND HORSESHOWS. $500/month. We'll make almost any issue is May 19th. Printing Caregiver needed 2000-01 acade-WEEKENDS. CALL PROF. changes to the houses. Call bill al Scanning two thumbs up for Brett mIc yr. Tues-Thurs, 7:45. 5:45 for 2 MILLER AT 631-4133. STIPEND 675-0776 Study Days & Finals Week young children. 631-7795. Transpo PLUS EXPENSES. '"SPECIAL"' THE COPY SHOP take me out, girls! I want to go out & ref. required. 3 bedroom duplex $0.035 self-serve copies Lafortune Student Center too! 
Need child care in Granger home. Appliances, W/D $0.035 self-serve copies Call 631-COPY 
15 hr/wk. Summer. Call Katie 271-1 mile from campus $0.035 sell-serve copies come see my speech! You know L'ARCHE HARBOR HOUSE in 1935 273-8332 From 5/1 -5/12 THE COPY SHOP everyone should know CPR. Jacksonville, Florida invites you to a THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center year of service creating community Rental houses for 4-6 students with Lafortune Student Center Stina, get all dolled up. Rock the with persons who are mentally dis• FOR RENT large rooms We accept Domer Dollars tool EXTENDED store hours during world! albed. W&D. 291-2209 DAVE Call 631· COPY finals week 
PERSONAL 
Respons1bllit1es include: assisl in College Pk apt to sublel from 5/24 I'll call you. You call me. Uh-oh. I creating a home; develop relation-to 811 very good condition, low price Need help with a project? Mon-Fri: 7:30am-Mid sense swimming from frosh year. ships with members: and assist in Call 243-0190 Sat & Sun: 10:00am-Mid Let's hope the BOT doesn't call and 
FOR SALE
personal care and community living. Complete DESKTOP PUBLISHING ask us if we're coming to practice! 
Requirements include a desire to 2BR, 2nd fir. apt, 525/mo. services are available at Recently asked in CORE; live with, learn from. and relate with Along St. Joe River. Incl.Water/Sec. 95 Red VW Cabrio, 5speed, blk THE COPY SHOP Happy Birthday, Shana Conner! mentally disabled adults. Sys./Trash 288-2654 leather, 40K mi. excellent condition, LaFortune Student Center "How many times have you had Benefits include stipend, room. $10,000/Best, must sell. call 243-Call 631-COPY encounters with a giraffe?" Good night. I mean, good morning. board. and health insurance and SUMMER INTERNS' 8901 I mean...oh. forget it. formation in the spirituality and phi-Apt. tor rent in Chicago's Lincoln -The SinNott losophy of L'Archc. Park area. Avail. July 1-Aug. 31 (w! A demon lives inside the printer! To apply, contact Dottie Klein. opt 10 extend lor 12 months). 2 2 one-way tickets from South Bend 'SENIORS' Words of Wisdom from Calvin and t.Arche. bdrm. 1 bath. kitchen w/ new appli-to Denver. $275 lor both. Call 271-Going to Duke next year for Hobbes: It's way past my bedtime! 
700 Arlington Rd.. Jacksonville, FL ances, large dinmg rm, deck, yard. 8830. law/med/grad school? 32211: On tree lined street 1 5 blocks from "Reality continues to ruin my life." 
(904) 744.4435 el and bus. $1155/month Call Vintage Gibson ES-160 Looking for a roommate? g'night kristin and kale and lauren Amy, 773-868-6064 Aaron at 4-4235 E-mail petelle.1@nd.edu -The SinNott and kelle and katie and becky 



Friday, April 28, 2000 
The Obmver . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
2nd Annual Chili Cook-off and 

Bluegrass Music Festival _ 
~.~~ 
~~r ~ e 
I
«..,,? ,'-3 Featuring: 
~,~~ <¢,,.~ · The Galoots 
,c' Straight from Kentucky, The Home of Bluegrass Musicl 
~--<;.._-.~--~~""---~~ 
Saturday, April 29th 8-1 lp.m. on North Quad 
~....­
Live Music! Free Chili! Free Drinks! 
reeWatermelon! See ya there 
Limited quantities offood and drink available 
partner! 
Brought to you by: The Student Activities Office, Notre Dame Food Services, and Coca-Cola 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 28, 2000 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
League sets example with Tigers, White Sox punishment 
Associated Pres. 
Cl-llCAGO 
In what is believed to be the harslwst penalty for a brawl in baseball history, 16 members of the Detro.it Tigers and Chicago White Sox were sus­p e n d e d Thursday for a. total of 82 games. 
"They're trying to set an example fur the rest of the league," \Vh itc Sox manager Ron Schueler said. "I think it will. I think you 're going to see around the league a littlt> more reluctuncc to start tights or get involved with them. 
"I respect the decision," he said. "Don't necessarily agree with it. but I respect it." 
Managers Phil Garner of Detroit and Jerry Manuel of the White Sox WP.re suspended for eight games each for Saturday's two fights at Comiskey Park. Tigers coach Juan Samuel must sit out 15 for throwing punches. 
Detroit third baseman Dean Palmer. who charged the mound after being hit by Jim Parque in the first fight, was suspended for eight games. Parque got a three-game sus­pension. Chicago outfielder Magglio Ordonez was suspend­ed for five. 

White Sox relievM Keith Foulke, who got thA worst of the brawl, needing five stitches tu dose a cut under his left eye, was suspendt>d for three games. 
There were 25 people fined -including the 16 who also received suspensions -rang­ing from $3.000 for Palmer to 
$500 for  Detroit  pitchors  
Danny  Patterson  and  Jim  
Poole."  

"We researched this as best we ·could, and we think this is the largest mass susp1rnsion ever." baseball spokesman Rich Levin said. 
In 'I 998, fights at Kansas City and Yankee Stadium resulted in multip•\p suspPnsions. Five players, including Orioles pitcher Armando Benitez, were suspended for a total of 18 games after a wild brawl against the Yankees. 
Two weeks later, nine play­ers and both managers were suspended for a total of 38 games after the Anaheim Angels brawled with the Kansas City Royals. 
Thursday's penalties were the first ones issued by Frank Robinson, baseball's vice presi.­dent of on-field operations. 
"'.'vlajor league baseball wants to send a message ... that par­ticipation in these sorts of inci­dents will be handled in a swift and serious manner," Robinson said. 
"Altercations like the one that took place in Chicago last week show a lack of sports­manship," Robinson said. "It sends the wrong message to 
our fans -particularly young 
people. Fighting is not an 
acceptable part of the game." 
Uecidi11g discipline became 
his rt'sponsibility when com­
missioner Bud Selig dissolved 
tbe president's ol11ce in the AL 
and NL. 
"I didn't. 11xpect that harsh of 
a t.rnatment, I guess you r,ould 
say," Manuel said. "Frank 
Robinson .is a baseball man 
who I have great respRct for. I 
can't dispute his decisions one 
way or the other. 
"I don't agre<' with it. but I 
won't dispute it." 
The p!-rnalties came a day 
before the White So:x were to 
start a series in Detroit. The 
suspensions will bfl staggered 
from Friday night through May 
10 l.Jecause ol' the number of 
players involVPd. 
Some of the players already 
said they will appeal, and the 
penalties would nut take effect 
until appeals have bemi heard. 
"All you can ask !'or is consis­
tent and equal penalties,·• 
Detroit general manager Randy 
Smith said. "I think he made 
every effort to do that." 
White Sox reliever Bob Howry anrl outfielder Carlos Lee said their three-game sus­pensions are scheduled to begin Friday. Both plan to _serve them. Ordonez, who said his suspension is to begin May 
1, wants to appiml. 
Though the suspensions 
dredge up the bad feelings 
from the brawl all over again, 
the White Sox said they don't 
anticipate problems in Detroit. 
"They had some concerns 
about the severity of it. And more so about the severity for the other club," Schueler said. "After that, it was another war rally, 'Let's go get 'cm.' We've got a good bu11d1 of kids in that clubhouse. I think tomorrow you'll sflc them come out play­ing bard again." 
Some White Sox wcro ups0t. though, that Detroit starter Jeff Weaver wasn't suspended. Weaver started the bad blood by plunking Lee in tho sixth inning. Ile was done pitching Rnd had his unil'nrm jnrsey off when the fighting began. but he cam·e back out onto the lield. 
Weaver was fined $750. 
"For throwing at Carlos, maybe not," Howry said. "The fact he comes back on the field and the tapes show him fight­ing with Magglio. yeah. he probably should have got.t1rn something." 
The other Tigm·s suspended were: pitcher Doug Brocail 

lil'll• 
nouvwood. 
l!veryday
Rostau.ant Dally 
"We lnet you Ilk• ¦ llfal"  Specials  
52820 U.S. 933 North  219-277-1618  
South Bend, lndl-a 46837  fax 219-277-1819  

(four games); outffolder Juan Encarnacion (thr!~e ganrns); catcher-IHI Hobert Fick (five games); outfil1lder Karim Garcia (three gamns); outffold­er Bobby lligginson (five games); and outfi1dder Luis Polonia (throe games). 
Garcia. since sent Triple-A Toledo. would begin sPrving his penalty if he is recalled. 
The other White Sox playnr suspend1!d was pitclwr Tanyon Sturtze (three games). 
Eleven people wPre 1\jected Saturday and Urn bnnclrns emp­tied twice -first f'or B min­utes in tlrn snventh inning and then a second time for eight minutes in the ninth after two more Tigers battPrs were hit. 
Palmer charged the mound in the seventh and was ejocted following a rumble that startod in the infield and spread to right field. Parqtw hit Palmer onP inning after Weaver had plunked Loo. prompting an angry staredown. 
Open 
24 

eastl~'Poiot 
Apartments 
Cleveland and Ironwood Roads/18011 Cleveland Road/ South Bend, Indiana 46637/ (219)272-8110 
New Castle Point Select Units Available for 
... Next Semester *Within minutes of campus* 
• 
Renovated, spacious one and two bedroom apartments, some with lofts 

• 
Includes membership in the new Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center 


Friday, April 28, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NBA 
Milwaukee Bucks gain first playoff win since 1990 
their offrnsn and shed a Milwauker beat Indiana 104­
:\ssociateJ Press 
decadn of playoff frustration. 91 Thursday night, the Bucks' INDIANAPOLIS Ray Allen and Sam Cassell lirst playoff victory since 1990. Tlw l\lilwaukcw Bucks found scored 20 points apir,cc as The Rucks rvened the b1:st­
of-five Eastern Conference series at one game apiece, tak­ing the home-court advantage away from the rattled Pacers as the first-round series heads tu Milwauker for the next two games on Saturday and Monday. 
The Bucks had lost four straight playoff games to the Pacers. including last year's 3­0 first-round sweep. But the poor shooting in Sunday's 88­85 loss was forgotten in a hurry. The Bucks never trailed, hit 15 of 21 shots in the first quarter, built the lead to 27 points late in the second period and to 31 in the third quarter. 
The Pacers, losing by the largest margin since a 19-point defeat to Chicago in the 1998 conference finals, never caught up. 
Rik Smits, who had 12 points in the first half, was ejected after putting a forearm tu Ervin .Johnson's head as they fought for a rebound midway through the third quarter. Jalen Rose, who had 26 points in Sunday's victory, had only 8 through three periods and 11 for the game. Reggie Miller, the Pacers' clutch player in so many playoff series, picked up three fouls and a technical within one minute late in the third and finished with 10 points. 
Milwaukee, whose last play­off victory was on May 1, 1990, against Chicago, never allowrd the Pacers more than three consecutive points until the final srconds of the second quarter, when two free throws by Rose and a basket by Smits cut the lead to 61-38 at the half. 
A 3-pointer by Allen and a slam dunk by Darvin Harn pushed the lead to 30 points in the first four minutes of the third quarter, then two free throws by Cassell with 7 :29 left gave the Bucks their biggest lead at 75-44. 
Indiana, which has reached the Eastern Conference finals series four of the past six years, cut the lead to 21 points several times late in the third quarter before the flurry of fouls by Miller. 
The Bucks led 88-64 going into the final period. Scott Williams. who finished with 15 points, hit two straight baskets at the start of the quarter to push the lead IJack to 28. 
Austin CrosherP. scornless in the first game, led the Pacers with 16 points. Travis Best, who scored the Pacers' final nine points, added 14. Tim Thomas had 19 for the Bur.ks. 
Lakers 113, Kings 89 
The Los Angeles Lakers' playoff opener was Shaq's Show. Game 2 was Bryant's Time. 
Kobe Bryant, seemingly improving with every game, scored 22 of his earner playoff high 32 points in the first half as the Lakcrs rolled to a victo­ry over the Sacramento Kings and a 2-0 lead in their first­round playoff series. 
Game 3 in the best-of-five series will be played Sunday at Arco Arena in Sacramento, where a fourth game will be played Tuesday night, if neces­sary. 
Shaquille O'Neal, who had 4(, points, 17 rebounds and five blocked shots in the Lakers' 117-107 victory in the opener, had 23 points, 19 rebounds, six assists and three blocked shots in Game 2, and Glen Rice added 18 points. 
The Lakers took command by outscoring Sacramento 16-3 in the linal seven minutes of the second quarter for a 56-41 halftime lead. 
The Kings appeared thor­oughly demoralized before the third quarter was over, and understandably so, considering the Lakers led by as many as 23 points before settling for an 8:1-64 lead entering the final period. 
Chris Webber, who scored 28 points in 27 minutes before fouling out midway through the fourth quarter of the open­er, avoided foul problems in Game 2 and shrugged off a bad start to get 22 points, 12 rebounds and six assists in 42 minutes. 
It wasn't nearly enough. 
Vlade Divac was the only other Sacramento player in double figures with 14 points. 
The Kings were determined to do a better job of blocking out after the Lakers got 25 offensive rebounds in Game 1, but did poorly early. 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Frie.lay, April 28, 2000 
NCAA 
directors unanimously formation of a Division I bas-approw~d a package of basket­ketball issues committee, which ball rules changes Thursday, will be chaired by Syracuse 
induding a pro­ chancellor  
posal to elimi­nate rnpn 's summer  "The board is eliminating summer basketball envi- K e n 11 e t h Shaw· Thepanel will be  
recruiting  in  ronments as we now  asked  to  
2002. "The board is  know it."  design a new approach to  
eliminating  the  summer  
summer basket­ Graham Spanier  c f'fe cti v P  in  
ball  environ­ chainnan of the board of directors  2002.  

NCAA board restructures men's basketball programs 
sions and very strong support least six hours of courses. Tho cost for the program The pro-Another proposal would limit 
Associated Press nationally from the NCAA's NCAA said it will provide $:~ gram will be a f'ivo-year pilot initial scholarships to no morn presidents across the country," million per year to provide up program and be assessed wlrnn than five in one year and <'ight INDIANAPOLIS he said. to 50 percent of an institution's it expires. over two years. The NCAA Division I board of 
The hoard also approved the [rr~~~~~~~~~==========~~~~~~~~~~~~~=il 
ments as we now know it," said Penn State president Graham Spanier. ehairman of the board of direc­tors. "We will scale back in 2001. thAn we will replace it in 2002." 
Spanier said the new pro­gram is designed to reduce "the unsavory influences affecl­ing the lives of young people 
and the integrity of our  pro­ 
grams."  
Coaches  currently  are  

allowed 24 days of recruiting during the summer, including attending camps sponsored by shoe manufacturers. Spanier said while the NCAA cannot prevent the ramps from contin­uing, it can prohibit coaches from attending them. 
The board's actions rould be overturnPd by the membership, though Spanier said that is unlikelv. 
"The.y've had fairly broad representations in the discus-Tho propos­
als w<,rfl 
among nine passed two weeks ago by the Division I Management Council and forwarded to the board for consideration at its quarterly meeting. 
"We are sending a clear mes­sage that there are going LO be changes," Spanier said. "Those must be substantive changes that return the recruiting and decision making process to ath­letes, to parents, to high school coaches and to university coaches and administrators." 
The NC.AA suspended several players this past season who reportedly received financial support before they began attending colleges, including gifts and money. 
AnothPr change will allow mt>n's and women's bask1\tball recruits to rncAive scholarships to attend classes in summer school before their first st>mes­ter in college if they Pnroll in at 
BEDROOM,, 
,. 
AVAILABLE F JUNE 
As a result of the debacle regarding James P. Malloy's senior picture in the yearbook (p. 288), we, the friends of James, are asking for your thoughts and prayers during not only this difficult and trying time but embarrassing one as well. A candlelight vigil will be held Sunday evening starting promptly at 5:30pm out­side James' upstairs bedroom. Pleas~ help us bring back the James we all know and love. 
Thank you, 
Pat Suth (dear friend of James Malloy) 

The Development Phone Center grateful~ acknowledges those vVho have supported its student
NOTRE DAME 
ANNUAL 
F U N 0 
caller incentive program.
P~ eutfBr, 
Blackthorn Golf Club Catalina's Trattoria Cinemark Cinema 6 Copymax The Copy Shop Doc Pierces Restaurant Drive and Shine Ehninger Florist Elrte Nails Emporium Restaurant Hi-Speed Auto Wash Juday Creek Go~ Course Macri's Deli Samuel Mancino's Italian Eatery Memories Forever, Inc. Michael &Company 
tired ofhearin the same old thing??? 
1hinA rou're cooler than Carson ~-Dalrl??
.,,. 
j-.cm WVFI ei-n,t/, 
,e:rCH-1fw:. ~,/// 
Molly McGuire's Coffee House Office Depot Old Country Buffet Osco Drug #421 Patricia Ann Florist Quizno's Classic Subs Salon Artistry, Inc. South Bend Regional Museum of Art South Bend Silver Hawks South Bend Symphony Orchestra Studebagels Union Station United Limo/fravelways Wendy's of South Bend Yellow Cab of Michiana, Inc. Ziker Cleaners 
lrifonnational 111eeth19 Sunday, ilpril 30th Al/ont901nery Theatre 1st. Fl. Lafortune 7:30 P1vf 
Friday, April 28, 2000 
Bookstore 
continued from page 28 
"IL was really just our determi­nation to keep going al it that won the game,'· Owens said. "It sum wasn't our free throws." 
130th teams had more than their share of chances to win but couldn't capitaliz1\ on free throws or open shots. 
Ownns look a unique approach to f'nw throw c;;hooting. Aft.er missing several from the charity stripe by overshooling the bas­k!'t, lw dt'cidcd to step back a couple fopt, releasing 111\arly from Lim 3-point !inn. 11,1 had much more success after that. 
"I couldn't adjust and shoot it soft enough,'' Owens said. 
Ow('llS was recruited to play Division I baskP.tball, but z,mwd in 011 football as his bnst option to excel in college. However, he hopes to walk on for Notre Dame·s basketball team, per­haps as soon as next season. 
Owens hit a free throw to put Coco Butter up 29-28. Double Down couldn'l score, and Fisher knockP.d down an off-balance jumper for the game winner. 
"They got a couple calls their way," McGowan said. "Thcy'rn strong down low." 
Next up for Coco Butter will be No. 5 Versatility, which ddcated Hampage 21-1 l. Versatility ben­elitect from its experience play­ing together. Chris Dillon, Joe Lillis, Jamm; Cochran and Jason Childress all played interhall hoops for lhc same team in Micek, and added Ross Hansen to their team. Last vi>ar's Versatilily squad lost in th~ finals with only one different player, walk-on basketball player John Hiltz in place of Hansen. But 
The round of 8 
1 Keyplay.com 
4/28 ST2 4:30 
8 Please call us Bosephus 
5 Versatility 
4/28 ST2 5: 15 
4 Coco Butter 
The Obmver . SPORTS 
Hansen proved key for Versatility. 
"Ross Hansen was on fire. He has been I.he whole tourna­ment,'' Dillon said. "We made it to the finals last year, and I don't see why we can't do that again." 
Rampage had tons of athletic ability with three football players -Arnaz Battle, Gary Godsey and Jim Molinaro -joined by Will Matthews and Torn Juntunen. But they failed to over<'.ome a team used to playing together. 
"Organization hurt us. They've been playing together for the past two years so they were able to make plays," Matthews sairl. "We didn't have another shooter. They were too fast for us." 
FormPr Versatility player Hiltz, who coaches this year's squad, said, "Five basketball players bnai five athletes tonight" 
No. 14 Torch gave No. 3 
NDToday.com 2 

4/28 ST3 4:30 
F-Bombs 7
4/29 4/30 4/29STS i--------tSTS 
5:45 ST5 5:00 
Majesties 6
2:00 

4/28 ST3 5: 15 
Franchise 3 
Please Recycle The Observer 
page 21 
franchise a run for its money. falling just 21-16 after dropping to a 9-2 early·deficit. 
The underdog squad of Charlie McKenna, Dan Irving, Kevin Mclean, B.J. Scott and A.J, Altman couldn't make up for its early scoring drought. 
"In the first half, we just didn't block out I.he way we should have," Altman said. "The thing that killed us was the o!Tensive boards." 
The Torch got within five at 15-11, but. that was as close as it could come. Franchise wasn't too pleased with its perfor­mance, although it won. 
"We tried to get back to play­ing the way we were at the beginning of the year, but we're still not hitting our shots," f,.lcLcan said. "We accepted the easy shots." 
Franchise will face another tough team in No. 6 Ma,jestics, a 
team that held off 11th-ranked Fueled by Hate 21-14. 
The Fueled by Hate team of Matt DeDorninicis, .Jim Moravek, John Lally and Steve Kovatis added varsity basketball player Todd Palmer to their squad, but his help wasn't enough to get the job done. 
"We gave up a lot of offensive rebounds and didn't hit as many shots as we did earlier in the tournament," Del)ominicis. 
Majesties hopes a victory will give it the respect it thinks it deserves. 
"We haven't gotten much respect,"' Justin Heberle said. 
Heberle is joined by Corey llartmann, Peter Hyan, Derek Bautier and Matt Wolbeck on the squad. Majesties has been play­ing together since last year, with only one player different, the addition being Bengal Bouts heavyweight champion Ryan. 
Women's Draw _ 


Women's Bookstore Results 
Silk Puppets def. farley@collegedub.com (21-17) JMKE def Richie Frahn Club (21-6) Muffet's 2nd string def. We're 52 years older than you (21-13) No name but got game def Playmates who can play (21-12) 

219-239-66 l l 800-522-6611 
1!!l
..... 
if only 
Duhhh. But of-course you can! And their web page, ndfcu.org, makes it super easy with 24 hour free home banking. Plus no matter where you are. checking is always free! 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION For People. Not For Profit 
INDEPENDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY 


"As You Wish",.,~_, 
IMPORTS~'" 
Sweaters, Tapestries, Jewel,y, Accessories, and Much More! Guatemala •Bali• Mexico • Brazil • Thailand• India • Ecuador 
Proceeds from sales of jewelry gaurantee the loving hands of Guatemalan families 3 times their average salary, as well as funds for their education. St. Mary's -In front of Hagger -Rain or wind in LeMans May 1-May5, 10to5pm Notre Dame -LaFortune Room 108 (near phone) May 8-May 12, 10 to 5 pm 
Gibson and Associates, Inc. Management Consultants 
proudlywelcomes the following consultants who will bejoiningus from Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
Emily Affeldt '00 Katie Cousino '00 Jim Dillhoff'00 Scott Eckman '01 Abigail Fleming '00 Francis O'Connor '00 Daniela Papi '00 
We look forward to visiting both campuses again next fall! Check us out at http://www.gibsonconsulting.com 
-_.,. 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 28, 2000 
highlight of the weekend as two of th<' country's top colle­
Baseball 
giate pitchers will face off. 
continued from page 28 Notre Dame junior captain Aaron Heilman. ranked the "Thesr. games mean an third best college pitcher by awful lot to us," head coach Baseball America magazine, P a u I has won his Mainieri last eight said after starts and the game. ''These games mean an leads the Big "\Ne're awful lot to us. We're going East with 83 going to be strikeouts in
to he playing three
playing just 69.2 three con­conference games against a innings. 
ference very good team that has II e i I m a n 
g a m e s will be facing
been kind of a
against a the man just very good nemesis to us." behind him team that on Baseball has been Amerir.a's list,
Paul Mainieri 
kind of a St. Johns'
Irish head coach
nemesis to junior Kevin us. McGerry in 
The Red Storm have taken what is sure to be a classic the season series the past two pitcher's duel. Big East Co­seasons, but the 26th-ranked Pitcher of the week Scott Irish will try to get revenge Cavey will go for Notre Dame this weekend. in game two and freshman 
Game one of Saturday's J.P. Gagne will get the start doubleheader looks to be the Sunday. 
Got 
Sports? Call 
1-4543. 

"a~~~ ~ d.t, ioMl ~~ He,~ a"~J.. H~ L,N~ ~
~J)£,tl~.,, 
P~106:1 
Campus-wide Prayer Vigil of Gratitude 
Join us for 23 hours ofprayer in Eucharistic Adoration 
to express our thankfulness for God's goodness in this jubilee Year. Eucharistic Adoration is an especially intimate form ofprayer in which the Blessed Sacrament is exposedfor all to look upon as they pray and meditate. 
\\\ILJ·)_
. . ) Tuesday, May 2nd, 2000 Midnight to 11 p.m. Fisher Hall Chapel 
Join us for 30-minute bloc/fs beginning at Midnight 

0MPU5 /V1INISTRY
For more info: Erin at Rockenhaus. l @nd.edu or 4-1497 or Frank Santoni at 1-3250 

Friday, April 28, 2000 Ihe Observer . SPORTS page 23 
TRACK 
Irish prepare for Big East Conference with weekend meets 
their final tune-ups before the "Some of our top guys are
Ovserver Staff Report 
Big East conference this week­rnsting this weekend," said end as athletes compete at the sprints coach John Millar-"The Tlw Irish men's and women's Drake Helays and the Purdue µoint of these meets is twofold: track and tield teams will have Invitational. it's for some people the last 

NEED CASH? 
NEW DONORS EARN $20 TODAY 
MENTION THIS AD FOR A $5.00 BONUS 
Up to $1 45-00 a month in 2-4 hours a week 
SERA CARE PLASMA 
234-6010 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST 
•

anov1c
• University of Notre Dame
nst1tute 
for European Studies 
Presents 
Tzvetan Todorov 
''The Intellectual Origins of Totalitarianism'' 
Monday, May 1st 7:30pm Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
An internationally renowned writer and director of research at the National Center for Scientific Research in Paris, Professor Todorov has published numerous books in literary studies, intellectual studies and cultural analysis. Among them: Facing the Extreme: Moral Life in the Concentration Camps, On Human Diversity, A French Tragedy, The Morals of History and The Conquest of America. 
opportunity to compete, and others it's preparation for the conference meet, to got a good run in." 
The Drake Belays, held at Drake University in Des Moines, Iowa, ranks as one of the most Sl1lective and competitive meets in the country. In the 91st year of the meet's cxistcncP, a rncord 9,166 athletes from 791 teams will be competing in the mePt -including high school. college, and 
season. Throwers Niall Cannon and Matt Thompson round out the men's field, taking part in the hammer throw. The dis­tanrn squad will field teams in tlrn 4x1600 meter relay. 
On the wonrnn's side, senior Jennifer Engelhardt will take part in the high jump. Engelhardt is the only Notre Dame woman ever to clear the six-foot barrier in the high jump. Also competing is fresh­
man Jamie 
unattached ath­letes.  "The point ofthese meets  Volkmer in the triple  
The  Irish  is twofold: it's for some  j  u  m  p  
men's 4x100 meter relay team, which has  people the last opportunity to compete,  Volkmer also holds the Notre Oame  
alrnady  shat­ and others it's  school record  
tered the school record this sea­s on, will face  preparation for the conference meet, to get a  in the pole vault. Junior Carri Lenz  
some stiff com - good run in."  will take part  
µetition in top­ in  the  400  
ranked schools such as Baylor.  John Millar  meter dles.  hur­ 
The  team  of  sprints coach  D  o  r  c  
seniors  Chris  Dchartolo,  

Cochran and Marshaun West, the most prolific thrower in the junior Travis Davey and fresh­history of Notre Dame women's man Tom Gilbert will compete track, will participate in the against the selective field_ rliscus as well as the hammer. 
Cochran will also be compet­The remainder of the Irish ing in the 400 meter dash. athletes will travel to West Baylor's Brandon Couts, the Lafayette, Indiana, to take part national leader in the event in the Purdue Invitational. Irish 
with a time of 44.74, heads the athletes have become quite competitive field in this race. familiar with Purdue's facilities, Cochran has experience at as this is the second meet this Drake, competing in the special season for the Irish at Purdue. 400 as both a sophomore and a This meet will provide a final junior. preparation for the Big East 
West will also compete in the Championships for some ath­long jump, an event he won at letes, while ending the season the Big East Championships last for others_ 
Clearance Sale • April 28 & 29 at the Logan Center 
Tackle the Bargains! 
Come to the Blue-Gold Game and take advantage of red~ced prices on Notre Dame Fi&hting Irish licensed merchandise • 
Logan 
Center 

HOURS; Frida)' 10-6; Saturday 9-6 Resister to win door prizes! Winners need not be prnent. 



page 24 lhe Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 28, 2000 
GOLF 
Austin Carr Charity Golf Classic to take place Sunday 
Special to Th~ Observer 
The first Austin Carr Charity Golf Classic will be held Sunday. Sept. 17, '.:WOO. at the new Warren Golf Course. 
Tim event is sponsorP<l by the Austin Carr Foundation. with 
rontact .Joel Piekarski. Advantage Golf, 1606 East Turkevfoot Lake Road, Akron. OH 44312, or mil 330-899­')319. 
Carr. currentlv the director or businr.ss and cc"nnmunity dtwl'l­
opment for the Cleveland 
Carr madP the NBA all-rookie team in '72 after averaging 21.2 points his first season. Ile f'in­ishc>d with 10.473 career points. playing nine seasons in Cleveland, then one with Washington and 11allas in 1980­
81. lie rer.eived the Walter 
Kennedy Citizenship Award in 1980 from the Professional Basketball \'Vriters Association of Amc>rir,a for superior ar,rom­plishments in community affairs. 
Active with the community's literacy program as a spokesman !'or "Stay-in-School," Carr also hosts the pre-game show on the Cavs· radio broad­casts and participates with llrn Cavs' Leg<mds Team. 
A '71 Notre Dame graduate in economics. Carr. his wife Sharon and children Jason and Ashley reside in suburban Cleveland. 
·~": J/ie spriny menus 
t·:%-f':""' 
are in £loom al 0orin ~­
Dine in the true spirit of Notre Dame, while experiencing 
1;.· !he budding flavors of the season. Springtime at Sorin's brings a :· • renewal of our menu as we honor our commitment to bringing youl ·the finest foods available. Visit Sorin's at The Morris Inn,
., 
and embrace the season. 

~. 
__ ,,; ce.Momslnn. ~.sorin.snd.com •Reservations Recommended· 631~2ow 


Experience Archaeolog~ 
by spending six weeks on a dig 
in the Notre Dan1e Summer Session Class 
Anth 488 -Archaeology Field School 
( 6 credits, undergrad, grad, or continuing student) 
May 24 to June 30, 2000 
Spaces still available! 
For more information, please call Prof. Mark Schurr at 631-763 8 
Or visit http://www.nd.edu/~mschurr 
ENTRY-LEVEL MANAGEMENT OPPORTUNITIES IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 
PEOPLE LIKE YOU PUT US ON THE LIST. 
SO SHOULDN'T WE TAKE YOU WHEREVER YOU WANT TO GO? 
growth more than you ever imagined. Where you'll be supplied with all the responsibilities you can handle. And where you are paid for your performance and promotions are determined by merit rather than seniority. Simply put, there's no better example of an environment where your hard work pays off. 
Beyond living in one of the m<>st exciting cities around, vou can look forward to working in an atmosphere where your It could rake a lifetime to discover all the advantages that ability to m,1kc .smarl business decisions not only counts for Southern California has to offer You'll be glad to kn,iw there's a 
something, but JI determines your career's direction and company you could describe that way too. Enterprise Rent-A-Car. 
Use Your Head. Join Enterprise. 
For consideration, please contact: 
Enterprise Rent-A-Car Attn: Melody Signaler 3366 Cherry Avenue Long Beach, CA 90807-4909 Phone: (562) 426-4774 Fax: (562) 426-4834 E-mail: msignaterl@erac.com 
Or call toll-free: 1-888-WWW-ERAC 
Visit our Web site at: www.enterprise.com tr)Enterprise 
•-----rent-a-car 
We are an equal opportunity employer Sand, surf. and endless sunshine. Can't say we blame you for wanting that on a daily basts. So ii your heart 1s leading you westward to Los Angeles, Enterprise Rent-A-Car is ready to help you get there, w11h the kind of incredible career opportunnies you deserve. 
proceeds to benefit a University of l\Jotre Dame minority sr.holar­ship fund in Carr's 111.rnrn, the March of DimPs an<l the South Bend Center for the Homeless. 
The weekend begins with a cefohrity rect>ption at 7 p.m. 0n Friday, Sept 15. at the Warren Golf' Course clubhouse. Following the Notre Dame­Purdue football game at Notre Dame Stadium the following day. a charity dinner will be held at 6:30 p.m. Saturday. also at the Warren Golf Course club­house. Then. on Sunday, golf begins with a shotgun stan at 9 a.m. 
Celebrities alrcadv committed to participating in the event include fornwr NolrF' Damp bas­kftball standouts Bruu1 Flowers. Bob Arnzen. Bill Hanzlik and Gary Brokaw: formf'r Irish foot­ball stars Nick Eddy. Ross Browner. Creighton Y!iller. Tony Rice. Jim Seymour and Willie Townsend; Notre Dame execu­tive vice president Rev. E. William Beauchamp. C.S.C.. for­mer Irish football offensive coor­dinator and Westwood One color commentator Tom Pagna and former St. Louis Cardinal quar­terback .Jim Hart. 
Corporate foursomes are available for $2.000 each. Anyone interested in playing or in corporate sponsorships can Cavaliers of thP National Basketball Assor.iation, remains the all-time leading r,areer scor­1:'r in Notre Dame basketball his­tory. He finished with 2,560 points between 1968-71 -help­ing him <'arn national player of the year houors as a senior in 1970-71 from the Associated Press and Unit<'d Press International. 
I-IP stil.l ranks as thP most pro­lific scorer in the history of the NCAA basketball tournament, thanks to his 41.3-point avcragP in seven '.\ICM games. He holds the NCAA tournament single­game n~rord with 61 points vs. Ohio University in '70. posted three of the top live scoring per­formanr:es in tournam1mt history and st.ill holds six .l\'CA\ tourna­ment records. 
.\ three-year starter at guard for the Irish, the 6-3 Washington, D.C., produr,t from Markin High School averaged 
22 .0 points for the Irish as a sophomore. 38.1 as a junior and 
37.9 as a senior. helping tht> [rish to NCAA appearances each of those seasons to go with remrds of 20-7, 21-8-and 20-9. 
He linished second naLionally in scoring as both a junior ,rnd senior and his career 34.6 scor­ing mark ranks second all-time. 
The first player chosen by the Cavaliers in the 1971 NBA draft. 
SATURDAY. APRIL 29,2000 S3STUDENTSAND SENIOR CITIZENS ~ ! 730 PM. WASHINGTON HALL SbGH,tR,\LADMIISION (RESER'IED S[A11NC) ~ TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT THE LAFORTUNE BOX OHIC.E (219) 631-8128 PLEASE CALL (219) 631-6201 OR VISIT WWWNDfDU/-MllllC FOR MORf IN"OR,WTION. 
Friday, April 28, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish face No. 19 Rutgers for first time in final game 

By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Spons Writer 
Notre Dame's women lacrosse team faces its final opponrmt, 19th-ranhd Rutgers, on Saturday at Yurcak Field in Piscataway, N.J. 
The Scarlet Knights come ofT a 9-3 loss to 16th-ranked Yale on Wednesday in the Yale 13owL The Irish also fell_ to the Bulldogs on April 15, 17-3. Notre Dame has never faced Hutgers. The Irish are 5­9 on the season and the Knights are 6-8. 
"If we play the same way we played [against Columbia and Harvard). Hutgers will be a good game," said head coach Tracy Coyne. 
Knights coach Anna Marie Vesco has compiled a 61-38 record with Hutgers after six years and coached her team to their first-ever NCAA tournament appearance in 1999. Rutgers finished 14-3 last season. 
Rutgers senior co-captain and All­American Liz Chambers leads her squad against the senior-less Irish. ChambP-rs finished with 45 goals and 20 assists in 1999. Like Irish tri-captain Lael O'Shaughnessy, Chambers has reached 
JEFF HSU/The Observer 
the century mark for career goals.
Members of Notre Dame's women's lacrosse team exhibit their surrounding defense. The team plays its final game of 
Chambers scored hor 100th goal in the 
the season Saturday against Rutgers in Piscataway, N.J. 
Knights' 13-6 loss to Syracuse on April 
O'Shaughnessy has scored 
-----------------------------------.... 8.
103 goals in her career, includ­ing 27 on the season. O'Shaughnessy notched goals 
• ¦ 
100, 101. 102 and 103 in Notre Dame's last home game -a 12-10 loss to Harvard on April 24. 
Rutgers goalie Lauren Gulotta, a junior, finished with a 4.05 GM last season. Gulotta has started every game in the 
Author s 1gn1ng 
Meet author 
net for the Knights this season. 
"We've been focusing on improving several areas of our game," Coyne said. "It would be great to end the season with a 

win." 
Notre Dame will face Rutgers along with several other teams next year when the Big East opens women's lacrosse play in 
Jennifer Chiaverini 
Saturday 
2001. 
"It will be a great opportunity to preview Big East play," Coyne said of the Rutgers game.
April 29th 
Noon 
,n the Hammes Notre Dame Bool<store 
us to discuss and sign her new book, Round Robin. Bring your own quilt for "Show & HAMMES Tel I" as she answers ques­tions about this exciting 
NOTRE DAME 
sequel to her popular The 
Quilter's Apprentice. 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: 631-6316 • www.ndbDOk$lore.com 
~ MOVIES 14 Edison @ Hickory 254-9685  
All Shows Bd,,r-..· 5 PM 1i-L011 i-1 00 Children/Senior~ \5.tlO Students .'lif,.Sn Alluh Sun.-Thur~. 'i:,f-i.75 Aduh Fri.-S,1t E:111~-Bml-1,1 wccL.di1~ mallllcl" t1I all nil•\ h..-.. 1, 11111~ '-' ~n Stereo Surround Sound in all Thc;J1rcs  
American Beauty R 7 10 9:50 Erin Brockovich R 1 ·00 3.50 7·10 10·00 Final Destination A 12:50 3:10 5:20 7.50 10·15 Frequency PG-13 SS-Naw 2:00 4.45 7·40 10:25 Gossip R 3:00 5.10 7:45 10:20 High Fidelity 'A 1:30 415 Keeping the Faith PG-13 1:40 4.25 7:15 10:00 Love and Basketball PG-13 SS 1 :05 3:55 7:00 9:45 Return to Me PG 1·45 4:30 7:20 10:15 Road to El Dorado PG 1.10 3;15 5:15 7:25 9:30 Rules of E:ngagamant R 12:55 4:00 7:05 9:55 28 Days PG-13 12:45 3-:10 5:40 8:00 10..25 U-571 PG-13 SS 1·15 4:05 7:25 10:05 Viva Rock Vegas PG New 12 45 2:55 5.05 7.20 9:40 Where the Heart Is PG-13 SS-Naw 1:10 3:45 7:<JO 9:40 Where the Money Is PG-13 12:50 TOO.\~ IIMEI ONLY fOUR C~Y A171'ANC! fl(Klt ltJ.EI ~lNOl~P ,l(C!!S18lt . NC AA5l£l • NC $1,l'nl,IVm  

ERASMUS BOOKS 
Used 1:,,,oks t,-,ught and sold -25 Categories oi Bouks -25.!lOO Hardback and Paperback books in stock -Our-.Jf-Prmt search service: $2.00 -Aprraisals large and small 
OPEN NOON TO SIX TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY 1027 E. WAYNE SOUTH BEND, IN 46618 (21 9) 232-8444 

Friday, April 28, 2000 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
Notre Dan1e offense steps up throughout 2000 season 


By STEVE KEPPEL Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's lacrossi1 team improvf'd to 8-3 on the season after winning the last two games against Villanova nnd Fairfield. In both gaml's lhe Irish attack managed Lo score over 16 goals whik extending thnir win streak to five. The Notrn Dame offcnsf' has greatly improved since the beginning of tbe season. After starting out 3-'.~ the Irish have aver­aged 1] goals a game since and gone 5-0. 
"We are starting to play 
1,JrPtty w11ll offtmsively," said 
head cnal'!1 Kevin Corrigan. 
"All yt)ar I frlt like wo havP 
created somP oppurtLrnilies 
for ourselvPs but have not 
necessarily finished thnm 
well. Sow we are starting Lo 
put the ball in the goal but we 
are also doing a better job of 
creating and being palient." 
"We are really being selec­
l ivc and working for good 
shots," said Corrigan. "We are 
just playing better lacrosse." 
After winning the Great 
Western Lacrosse League and 
beating Villanova and 
Please Recycle The Observer. 
Whylug your stuff across campus? 
Call 277-5555 tor free pick up at your roo111 -on or off-ca1npus. Boxes Plus •the lower priced sliipper• 5622 Grape Road -Wilshire Plaza 
Bring your belongings and thls ad to Boxes Plus and receive a 10% clisconnt. 
fairfield, the Irish are all but guaranteed a spot in tho NCAA tourr111mPnt. 
The Irish will rely on their playoff cxporicnce and ability of their uppcrrlassmen as Liley try to move (Ill. 
"We am looking for those guys on our team who have been iu this positi(ln b()!'ore and I think we havn got a lot of them," said Corrigan. "We have got juniors and seniors who have been there and we need leadership from all of them." 
Before heading to the tour• 11ament Notre Dame must first take on a top 20-rnnkod llarvard team. Tho Irish beat llrn Crimson 9-8 last yAar and hoµe to extend their winning streak on Sunday. 
·'This game is exlrernr.ly important," said Corrigan. "It is a diffcrnncc of going into the tournament off ol' a loss or going in off of a six-game win­streak." 
"We know that in tourna­
ment time if we am going to 
do the things we want lo 
accomplish then we have to 
play our bflst lacrosse. So wn 
don't to take a step back­
wards on our way into the 
tournament." 
A Salute to the Leaders of Tomorrow ­Air FlirROTC Cadets 
.......-...-College is a time for decision ... ,.. Choose to become a leader 
\i;• 
:,, ­

Smart move. The whole concept of Air Force ROTC revolves around the cultivation of leadership qualities. Whether you're about to start college or have already begun, ifs time to make your decision, now. 
Making Leaders for the Air Force and Better Citizens for America 
Contact Captain Klubeck at 631-4676, or Klubeck.1@nd.edu 
NOTRE DAME BASEBALL 
•
Saturday 
~\ffi, ~D JJID]Iit® 
lIDiJE~@1r1 ©£00©~1 ~Wb1~JEOOJE@~ @Oi\00~ 
ND 
vs. 

St. John's 
Sunday@12:00 pm 
Numerous special events promoting breast cancer awareness will take place, in addition to prize givaways and contests! 


Friday, April 28, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
., .J. 

Don't know what to do this weekend? 
;..
Conie watch ''The Green Mile'' 101 DeBartolo, Friday and Saturday, 8 and 10:30 ptn 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
LETS S,t..'( •t\t-.T OVltlWC-:."'tl\i. f'i.OCE.'i,,~ OF <.:1.E,-Nlt.161"\lE 
1'.00M. t,. '-.t:Al..L'( OL~ ,\ill"~ 
JEFF HEAM
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 

CONFESS LIKE 
A CH~PIDH 
TODA'( 
The unique nature of Catholicism at Notre Dame 
bearn.1@nd.edu 
'.L ,.._£._N "'-ll: 
01.0 .,-lollkfll:.IE OLO,IT,!,l'ltl 
5 T"U£ JIWY ,-W(.E. l"'t (.OU 
8UT I FINE. HEl<E'S PAID ANOTHER coRN 
FoR A DoC:i FoR FREE. FOOT! l NOW SCRAM. WANTED 
A f:ooT~ 
j 
TOM KEELEY 
BlLLAMEND 
I &UESS THE SQUEAK'!' WHEEL REALL't DoES GET THE f:iREASE. 
\ 
~ A 
Fox TROT 
UM, ASOVT THE WHAT FooT-LoNG CORN ASoUT Do& You SoLD ME 1T? 
'rESTERDAY.•• 
~ I 
IT WASN'T A FOOT WE LONG. IT WAS DON'T ll~LNCHES. YOU SToc~ OWE ME HALF HALF­
INCH 
UNITS 
OF CORN 
DOG, KID. 
'-­
EUGENIA LAST
CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 26 Wedding 46 Place for some broadcast tents: Abbr. 
FRIDAY, APRIL28, 2000
1 Personal 7 Pre-election 27 Considers 47 Spread out CELEBRITTES BORN ON THIS VIRGO (Aug. 23-SepL 22): Prob­consultant 28 Chick 48 21, maybe lems with co-workers and employers
DAY: Jay Leno, Ann-Margret, Sad­dam Hussein, Marcia Strassman 
may be alarming. Try to keep the sit­15 When modern 30 "Sleepy Time 49 Not quite Happy Birthday: Take it easy, pal. uation in perspective. Consider that
48-Across You need to chill out and be more
elephants first _" (1926 hit) it may be an indication that you 
appeared watchful and accepting of what is
51 The very rear should move on to better things.
31 Where a river going on around you if you want to 000
16 Interest for 
meets the sea 52 Turn away make headway during this unusual­LIBRA {Sept. 23-0ct. 22): The
Einstein 
ly changeable year. The more you are
53 Not later time to experience new things is
32 Open
17 Not calm sure of something, the less likely it is now. You should be getting out with
54 No-show
36" will be to remain that way. Prepare for the ~e~ friends, _although you may be
18 Abide 
unknown and the unexpected, and 19 Personnel will cause stress. 00000 done" 55 Garnered limited by children. Financial losses 
you'll do just fine. Your numbers: 15,37 Whip carriers 18, 27, 32, 36, 44 
director's find SCORPIO (OcL 23-Nov. 21): You 38 Result of bull ~an expect to experience disruptions 
DOWN ARIES (March 21-April 19):
20 Blow away 
markets 1 Lucky break Other people may try to stand in m your personal life and living quar­21 Lump size your way. Don't be a follower. Use ters. Be prepared to compromise and
provider?
41 Without support your own know-how to get things 
to lend a helping hand to those less 
22 "_ So Long" 
2 Pulls off accomplished. You may not please 
capable ofdoing for themselves. 00
42 -child
(1958 hit) 3 Turkey's locale everyone, but that's to be expected. SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec.
(changeling) 
0000
23 Hard to make 21): Frustration will result if you out 43 Pony up 4 Conned TAURUS (April 20-May 20): aren't prepared to let situations un­5 "The Night of Partners may be unpredictable. It is fold at their own pace. You can count
24 Air bubble 44 Driving hazard best to avoid any confrontations that on opposition from relatives who
the Hunter'' 
could lead to major changes in your 
25 Reproduction 45 Punch, so to screenwriter have never favored your actions. 
personal life. Your reputation may be
necessities speak 0000 
6 Cubs' home at stake. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 7 Taking the edge Concentrate on your financial posi­
GEMINI {May 21-June 20): It will ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE off be. difficult_ to ~heducational pur­tion and career objectives. You will st11ts at this time and certainly the 
be able to make professional changes. 
8 Parmentier : wrong day to begin new cOUISes. It is Don't let others stand in your way.potatoes:: best to take a look at your own phi­Rely on yourself. 000 lyonnaise : _ losophy rather than others. 00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
27 Domain of one 40 Crashing cars CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take 
You mustn't look at changes as being
9 Basketball 48 When repeated,
of the Muses and jumping out care of any health problems. Limita­
negative. Open your eyes to new
position like some shows
of planes tions regarding your financial situa­beginnings and be ready to move
29 One in a class
1 O Not just for now 41 Declare tion can be altered if you are disci­with the times. Don't allow your per­
by himself 
50 Before, once plined in your spending habits. 000 sonal lite to hold you back. 000
11 Finish (up) 
30 Whopper 44 All tuckered out LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Partners PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take12 Quite a diving may want more than you can give
45 Conceived 51 Paddle care of your health. You will have a
32 Cry before 
somersault them. Don't make promises or com­
tendency to be run-down. You need
dinner? 
~tments that you know you can't 33 Not still hidden Answers to any three clues in this puzzle live up to. Accept changes in your Financial i;an:15 can be made through 13 Prize a vacation or just a change of pace. 
14 Fixes up home.000 
are available by touch-tone phone: conservative uwestm.ents. 000
34 Trust
20 Rear 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute).
---+-t-.,,,.+-,-+-,-+--i 35 Wrapped up Birthday Baby: You're inquisitive, inventive and a real handful for those23 Kind of magic Annual subscriptions are available for the who aren't li'repared to give you their undivided attention. You move quickly 24 "Twelfth Night" best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 fro_m one thlng to another, making it difficult for others to be sure what you're
37 Janitor character 38 Was wet years: 1 ·888-7-ACROSS. go111g to do ne~t. You' re a go• getter with the best intentions. (N~ed advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugerualast.com, astromate.com.) <e 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 



BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXIX 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN .... .¼sociace Spom EJiror 
Coco Butter survived the absence of key player Marshaun West, the scramble for a fifth player after Lee Lafayette was declared ineligible. a slew of missed free throws and the tough play of Double Down to win 30-28 in a game that lasted nearly two hours. 
With \\'est gone due to a track and field competition at the Drake Holays, Coco Butter sub­stltut('d Lafavett1:1. Just before game time, however, he was ruled ineligible since he is no longer a student at the University. Red Croker, Tony Fisher. Doug Conners and John Owens picked up football player Justin Thomas for their squad, and his addition was good enough for the victory. 
No. 4 Coco Butter took an 11-9 halftime lead over the 13th­ranked Double Down squad ol' Coley Brady, Dan McGown, Larry Zimont. Steve _Allred and Matt Ott. In the second period, Coco Butter pulled ahead by as many as four at 17-13. But Double Down was good as gold from the free throw line as it hit two free throws. followed by a basket by McGowan to close to within one at 17-16. 
"They talked a lot of trash before the game," McGowan said. "I think they overlooked us. We play these guys all the time at the rec center." 
Neither team could get ahead by more than one after the score reached 18, and the game became a battle of the fatigued. 
see BOOKSTORE/page 21 
BASEBALL 
Pitching staff leads the Irish to a 9-6 victory Thursday 
The Irish stand at 34-10 on ahead run. Tamayo had been limited to The Irish scored five runs in
By BRIAN TRAVERS the season. Stavisky scored on a passed just 5.2 innings of work this the third inning to get on top
Sports Writer 
Irish starter Drew Duff scat­ball before third baseman season but allowed only one early. Jeff Perconte had a two tered six hits over the first six A n d y hit and struke run double to left, and reign­
-
The Notre Dame pitching innings and left the game with Bushey out three over ing Big East player of the week
"Today was really the 
staff and its NCAA-leading a 6-2 lead before Cleveland drove in the the final two Stavisky added an RBI single.
2.72 team ERA allowed six State scored four runs off four last run of first time since my innings to earn Jeff Felker capped the scor­runs on 12 hits, an error and a well exe­the inning surgery that I've felt his first career ing in the third inning, smash­hits, but cuted double steal to tie the on a sacri­save. ing his fifth home run of the
comfortable out there. " 
got the job game in the seventh. fice fly to "Today was year over the right field wall. done when The Irish offense answernd left. really the first Felker finished the game with it counted right back in the bottom of the I r i s h Danny Tamayo time since my two runs and two RBI. Mike as the Irish inning. Sophomore center junior Irish pitcher surgery that I've Naumann (2-1) faced four bat­
(34-10) 
fielder Steve Stanley reached right-han­felt comfortable ters in the seventh to cam the defeated on an error to start the inning. der Danny out there," win. t h e A Brian Stavisky single and a Tamayo Tamayo said. "I This weekend the Irish will 
Cleveland 
walk to Jeff Felker loaded the came on in was finally able play three important home S t a t e bases before Viking reliever the eighth inning and pitched to start throwing my curve ball games against Big East rival Vikings 9-6 Eric Zizelman walked Matt almost flawlessly. Recovering for a strike and I was feeling St. John's. Thursday night at Eck Nussbaum to score the go-from Tommy John surgery, good with my change-up also." 
Stadium. see BASEBALL/page 22 


Track and Field Women's Lacrosse Rowing
SPORTS • At Drake Relays ~ at Rutgers at Navy 
Friday-Sacurday, TBA Saturday, I p.m, Saturday 
ATA ·r6
Softball Blue and Gold Game • Men's Golf ar St. John's Saturday, l ;30 p.m, at Big East Championships 
~ 
Saturday, 12 p.m. Saturday
GLANCE • 




