
Catholic Battle 
Remember when ... 
Irish football faces long time rivals, Boston 
Several alumni look back at their days under 

Friday
College this weekend in the last home game. 
the Dome. Check out their stories from the 
See the insert for details. 
195o's, 6o's and 7o's. 
NOVEMBER10,
Irish Insider 
Scene . page 16 
2000 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 53 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Brownson Hall serves as home to many since 1855 
Home to nuns. graduate students, first year of students and printing presses during the last 150 years, First Year of Studies and Brownson Hall will be undergoing major changes in the next year as organizations housed in thnsc two buildings are moved to the new Coleman-Morse Center on South Quad. All Virst Year of Studies offices, the Learning Hesource Center, the First Year Writing Center and Academic Services !"or Student Athletes will be moved to the Coleman-Morse Center during the spring, said Joseph Schellinger, director of academic space management. Previously the old Hammes Notre Dame bookstore, the Coleman-Morse Center has been under renovation for the past two years. Some offices located in Brownson will not move immediately. Offices of organizations currently housed in Brownson Hall, the Center for Sport. Character and Culture, the London Stage Program, the Office· of Information Technologies, Pre-College Programs, Psychology Research Labs and Upward Bound. will expand for the time being. Other open space in the building may be used as temporary space for organizations whose offices are being renovated. No decision has been made about the long-term future of the three­building complex including Brownson Hall, the First Year of Studies building and the Earth Science Building in the long term. "There has been no decision on whether the buildings will be reno­vated or torn down," said Schellinger. "There are definite plans for the buildings until 2003, but if the officers of the University want some­thing different before that. we will do that." Campus Ministry will also have a new office in the Coleman-Morse Center. The offices of the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE), which shares Campus Ministry's current office in Badin Hall. will grow to include Campus Ministry's space after the move is completed. 
A long history behind the Dome 

In 1855, under the direction of Father Sorin. Brother Francis Patois designed the complex of buildings and work began on two buildings behind the Main Building the same year. One was a convent for the Sisters of Holy Cross (now the Earth Science building and First Year of Studies building) and another was the Ave Maria Press (now Brownson Hall). 
The sisters, living in a convent that is now the First Year of Studies and worshipping in a chapel that is now the Earth Sciences building, prepared food for all students in a kitchen facility behind the main building from 1849 until South Dining Hall opened in 1927. 
In addition to cooking, they aided sick students, tended to gardens, set type at the press facility next door and did laundry. 
The convent closed in 1965 after the remaining sisters, who were graduate students, moved to Lewis Hall. which was home to both lay graduate students and nuns. 
Ave Maria Press printed The Scholastic and Ave Maria, along with other publications. in the building that is now Brownson Hall from 1855 until 1940. when it moved to its current location on Douglas Road. In 1941, the Hall was renovated so that it could be used for food storage. 
see BROWNSON/page 4 


COURAGEspeaker supports chastity for homosexuals 
By TIM LOGAN Senior Staff Writer 
David l\forrison was once an outspoken gay rightc; activist at the University ofMaryland. 
Then he spent seven years in a successful, monogamous gay relationship. 
But now the 37 -year-old writer spends hb time calling on homosexual-, to live cha'ltc lives. 
llo came to Notre Dame Thursday to do just that. and to tell about his transition. speak­ing before a DeBartolo Hall crowd which included about 30 skrptiral OutreachND members wearing rainbow armbands. 

Morrison told his story of growing up as a troubled ado­lescent, and realizing he was gay in high s c h O O I . See Also 
When he 
Address all

was a stu­dent al. the issues of University of 
homosexuality
Maryland, Morrison page 14 
found a 
homosexual community and became involved i11 the gay rights movmnrnt them. !Te went on to become a writer and spent seven years in a monogamous 
see CHASTITY/page 4 

Bush lead slips in Florida recount 
Associated Press 

George W. Bush's lead over Al Gore in all-or-nothing Florida slipped beneath 300 votes in a suspense-filled recount Thursday, as Democrats threw the presiden­tial election to the c-ourts claiming "an injustice unparal­leled in our history." The I3ush campaign was considering recounts in two other close­voting states.. 
Chaos reigned. ll may take weeks to untangle the thicken­ing legal and political webs and determine the nation's 43rd president. 
"The presidential election is ... on hold," said James Baker 
111, the secretary of state in the Bush administration brought in to protect the Texas gover­nor's interests. 
Gore wants a follow-up recount in four Florida coun­ties and perhaps a new elec­tion in the Palm Beach area ­ideas the Bush camp said amounted to "politicizing and distorting" the electoral sys­tem. 

Amid a campaign-style 11urry of charges and countcr­charges, Gore campaign chair­man· William Daley said his party will support legal actions by voters and supporters who say a confusing ballot may have led tht1m to vote acciden­tally for Beform Party candi­date P.at Buchanan. 
"We're raising some very 

.serious questions and legal actions will be taken," Daley said at a Florida session with Warren Christopher, the for­mer secretary of state acting as Gore's recount consigliere. 
The Bush campaign fired back by staking its own claim to a Florida victory and ques­tioning Gore's motives. Still, Republicans eyed recounts elsewhcre~in case Gore pre­vails in Florida. raising the specter of a lengthy, multistatc battle. 
"One of the options that they seem to be looking at is new elections. Our democratic process calls .for a ·vote on 

see ELECTION/page 3 

Friday, November I 0, 2000

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Juice and a bagel 
For 15 years, my family had a rilual. 
Every Friday night, my mother would stand 

over a pot of spaghetti, check the bread in the 
oven, and make sure my favorite Lemon Ice 
Gatorade was in the refrigerator. As a swim­
mer, my weekend races 
usually dictated the family's 
schedule -and our menu. 
My carbohydrate and high­
fluid pre-race diet wasn't 
Lhc typical family meal, but 
in my house, it was the 
unbreakable norm. 
My mom's preparations didn't end there; she would set her alarm to wake me up at the crack of dawn on Saturday morning, make sure a bagel and juic!\ were on the table, and warm the car for whatrver location wu wcrp voyaging to that wc1~kend. With coffee bal­ancing dangerously on the dashboard of our Buick station wagon, she would never show signs of' fatigue as she drove nw to a pool in some foreign corner of Lhe state for my compe­tition. 
And d(\Spite the facl that after a night of cooking, a morning of driving, and long hours sitting in the humid bleachers of a strange natatoriurn. when I stood up on the blocks, she'd always be cheering the loudest. At the time, I'd usually pretend not to notice, but I knew for sure that each time I raced, there would be at least two people cheering for me ­my coach and my mom. 
This weekend, the roles will switch for my mother and me. In 1974, my mother began the lirst swim team at Saint Mary's College, and will return to campus today for the College's first alumnae athletic reunion. On Sunday morning, my mother will join with her fellow alumnae from '74 and beyond to return to the pool as they take on the current Saint Mary's swim team at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
And like she has done so many times for me, I'll make sure she eats her pasta dinner on Saturday night after the game, I'll wake her up on Sunday morning and I'll make sure I hand­deliver juice and a bagel to her before her race. And you'd better believe that I'll sit with my stepfather in the stands, yelling and screaming as loud as I can. 
I know that my mother was excited when I took Saint Mary's acceptance and came to her alma mater. I know that she was even more excited when Ijoined the Saint Mary's swim team as a freshman. But I know that she was devastated when I quit. One year ago I left my swimming career for good to pursue my other love: journalism. She'll never say it, but I know my mom misses cooking spaghetti for me and driving hours at the crack of dawn to see me compete. l know it broke her heart for me to quit the team that years before she had start­ed. But she never said a negative word to me about my decision. 
Like a good mother, she recognized that I had to go my own way. 
If l have one regret about my own swimming career, it is that I never thanked my mother for being my No. 1 fan. I hope my cheers from the stands this weekend can speak for all the words I never said. If they can't, I hope that being her No. 1 fan -if only for the weekend -can be enough. 
Cood luck, Mom. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Kate Nagengast Amanda Greco Maribel Morey Graphics 
Score Brodfuehrer 
Katie Annis Sports Production Noah Amstadter 
Andrew Soukup Viewpoint Katie DeMcnt Pat Kelly Lab Tech Tony floyd 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday ,hrough Frid;iy rxccp1 during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the A)sucia1cd Press. All reproduction righu are rc~rvcd. 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Marijuana crop offers harvesters free high 
Nov. 1 7, 1975 
Marking the beginning of harvest time for Hoosier mari­juana, state authorities and individual entrepreneurs were racing to reap the illicit weed. The high price of marijuana on campus is one reason given for harvesting local patches of pot. "I would say at least half' of the students here who smoke try to grow their own," an anonymous student said. "But most the good stufT comes from Ann Arbor, Mich." 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Cavanaugh men face dorm change 
Nov. 19, 1993 
Cavanaugh residents were informed that their dorm would be converted to a female residence effective in the Fall of 1994. Although many diffornnt factors were taken into account, the final decision to convert Cavanaugh came down to beds, said Patricia O'llara, vice-president for stu­dent affairs. The dorm was chosen because it has the 242 beds which would be needed for incoming fomales. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Networks predict Gore's future as Harvard pres 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

There's more than one presidency at stake hl're. As Vice President Al Gore waited for the recount Wednesday, pundits were alroady speculating that he could be in the running for the nation's second most highly contested presidency ­IIarvard's, 
Tuesday night, as nrtworks goofed, rhetoric shifted and fickle Florida fluctuated, NIJC news anchor Tom Brokaw tossed ofT a comment about Gore's future to millions of viewers, noting that Gore might be a fit for Harvard's presidential spot. On CBS, a guest of Dan Rather's did the same, as anxious voters awaited the verdict. 
As early as Monday, Slate's Timothy Noah began the gossip by devoting his "Chatterbox" column to Gore and the llarvard presidency. 

Noah said a list of possible presi­dential candidates published in The New York Times inspired him to sug­gest Gore to replace outgoing univer­sity President Neil Hudenstine. 
"I was struck by the implausibility of Clinton because of' the Lewinsky scandal and the more prosaic fact that he had no previous connection to Harvard," Noah says in an inter-
CORNELL UNIVERSITY 

Asian students complain of abuse 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
After four anti-Asian assaults on campus this fall, Cornell University is considering far-reaching curriculum reforms to combat hate. In mid-September, an Asian female student was sexually assaulted on campus. In the same week, another Asian student and four Asian alum­nae were verbally harassed. Then, two weekends ago, an Asian male student was assaulted with racial slurs. This week, Cornell University president Hunter Rawlings issued a statement urging students to take greater safety precautions and endorsed a series of proposals designed to increase campus security. The proposals, which were first outlined in an administration report released Sunday, include increased security on campus and the possible addition of a diversity requirement to the cur­riculum. In his statement, Rawlings wrote, "Crime and bias are realities in society and on our campus that we must confront." But many students said they were not satisfied by the anti-bias actions taken by the university both before and after the assaults. 
LOCAL WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather !!recast fa daytime conditions and high tempernrw-es 
\ / . ..., .I ..---






SaturJ~; 
Sunda~ Mond4y 4, 
\


Tuesdpy ~r 
;i / 

Wedriesday~'l~
rl'~--'-/'·,,· 
i 
.....) 


q_~,~4.Q.Q (f ~ u 

Showers T·storms Rain Flurries si,(MI Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Ass«fat9d PrH6 GraphicsNol 

view, referring to flying rumors that President Clinton would be consid­orc~d. 
But Noah says the vice president is a much more realistic prospect than his boss is. Gore is a former member of the Board or Overseers, the uni­versity's second-highest governing board. 
"lie has a great affinity for the academic life," Noah says. "It is entirely speculation on my part. it's probably unlikely, but it's at least as worth discussing as any or the other names I've seen mentioned." 
But longtime search and university officials dismiss Gore's chances as slim. if existent. 
Former Overseer Joan llutchins says the next university president must have a true understanding of higher education issues. 
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 
Men to end violence a~ainst women 
ANN AHBOH, Mich. 
University student Gary Brouhard said he got involved in the White Ribbon Campaign after hearing too many stories about his female friends being abused by men. The cam­paign, an international program run by men to end male violence against women, is celebrating its first anniversary at the university this December. "l want to be proud to be a man," Brouhard said. "But as long as so many men com­mit acts of violence against women, that's impossible. I want masculinity to mean peacefulness and cooperation, not aggression and violence." The focus of the events is the White Ribbon Drive to distribute ribbons from Nov. 29 to Dec. 5. Jack Gagliordi, national outreach coordinator, said he believes the biggest problem in combating violence against women committed by men is a lack of education for men about the seriousness of their actions. "We battle everything from sexist jokes against women all the way up to murder," Gagliordi said. The campaign began in Montreal in 1989 following the Dec. 6 massacre of 14 women at the University of Montreal by a lone gunman. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeathe~ forecast for noon, Friday, Nov. 1o. 

FRONTS:  
............ .&...&. ..........  
0 2000 AccuWeather, Inc.  COLD WARM STATIONARY  
Prtssure; ® (D D D  D  D  D  D  
High Low Shower ¦ R•ln  T• ¦ tom,a  Flurrlea  Snow  le• Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy  

V..~~lldPfNII  
Atlanta  61  43  Las Vegas  52  37  Portland  50  35  
Baltimore  60  42  Memphis  59  42  Sacramento  51  38  
Boston  50  45  Milwaukee  48  36  St Louis  53  37  
Chicago  49  38  New York  62  52  Tampa  77  53  
Houston  67  54  Philadelphia  34  56  Wash DC  61  46  

Friday, November 10, 2000 The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 page 3 


8 p.m. EST): 
. Gore had 49,113,600 votes.


Election 
. Uush had 48,906,647 votes. It is the tightest election since 1960,
continued from page 1 
when John P. Kennedy defeated Richard Election Day, it does not call for us to con­Nixon by 118,574 votes. Though it has no tinue voting until someone likes the out­bearing on who is the next president, the come," Rush campaign chairman Don total-vote lead gives Gore added psycho­Evans said in Austin, Texas. logical standing in his fight to overturn 
Both sides dispatched dozens of lawyers Florida's results. and political operatives to Florida and Republicans and Democrats alike said geared up· l'und-raising drives to finance the Florida-vote challenge poses incredible what is exploding into a post-campaign risk for both candidates, because an even­recount campaign. Iv divided elertorate will soon tire of the 
As the drama unfolded in Florida, political suspense and begin looking for 
Attorney General Janet lleno said in somebody to blame. 
Washington she saw no reason for federal "This is serious stuff; it's time to cool 
authorities to "jump in" the controversy. partisan passions or risk being damaged 
The former Miami prosecutor said she goods, even if you win the presidency," woulu review any complaints brought to said Democratic consultant Jim Duffy. her. "We am not here to gen~rate contro­In competing news conferences 
versy," she said. Thursday, the strategies gelled: Bush's There was already plenty of that. camp portrayed Gore as a poor loser who An unofficial tally by The Associated wants to overturn election-night returns 
Press showed that Gore had cut Bush's that gave Bush the edge in Florida; Gore's 
lead to 229 votes with 66 of 67 counties camp accused Republicans of selfishly recounted. One by one, the counties ignoring ballot irregularities and attempt• reported throughout the day, as the candi­ing to scare Americans with talk of a con­dates and their staff agonized over each stitutional crisis. 
return. Christopher and Baker met Thursday in 
The official total what was described by Democrats as an lagged behind, uneventful session. and Secretary of Christopher dismissed Baker's election­State Katherine on-hold remark as "self-serving myth" and Harris said it pointedly said: "Let me assure you that the could be as late as presidency goes on until Jan. 20 in a vig­Tuesday -a week orous way, and none of bur allies are in after the election any doubt as to who's in charge of the -before the state government until Jan. 20."
"Corazon y Conversion: 
certifies ballot But the election standoff rattled Wall results from all 67 Street, where stocks plunged after Daley's counties. Nearly 6 news conference but later recovered.

The Dynamics of 
million votes were Eight lawsuits have been filed in state cast Tuesday in and federal courts to challenge the Florida Florida. results, including six in Palm Beach
Undocumented Mexican She said it.may County and two in Tallahassee. One of the take until '.'iov. 17 federal cases was withdrawn by the voter to tabulate ballots ,vho filed. Democratic Party-backed law­cast by Floridians suits won't be filed until next week, party

Immigration and 
living overseas. officials said. "Nobody ever said The Tallahassee cases alleged race dis­that democracy crimination, and Palm Beach County vot­
Spiritual Transformation" was simple or effi­ers sought a new election because they cient," said elec­said the ballot was too confusing. tion board mem­Thousands of ballots were not counted ber Bob Crawford. because they were punched twice. The winner of Democrats say Gore backers voted forFr. Daniel Groody, C.S.C. -then voted for Gore after
Florida stood to Buchanan gain the state's 25 realizing their mistake. electoral votes -Bush aides said Palm Beach county is
Monday, November 13 
and the keys to home to 17,000 voters allied with the 
the Oval Office, Reform Party, and thousands of Palm
4:00 PM unless Bush's Beach County ballots were invalidated in 
team makes good 1996. on a threat to con­In Florida, Daley said Democrats would

Center for Continuing Education 
test Gore victories seek a more thorough, second recount of in Iowa and ballots cast in Palm Beach, Dade, Broward
112 McKenna Hall Wisconsin, among and Volusia counties -some 1.78 million others. votes, many of them Democratic. 
With votes still He said the Bush campaign was willing dribbling in from to "blithely dismiss the disenfranchise­'across the coun­ment of thousands of Floridians as being 
trv, Gore's lead in the usual mistakes" that afflict elections. the popular vote "I would assume that the courts will take was shrinking to a serious look at what may be an injustice 
Sponsored by: 

Institute for Latino Studies 
about 200,000 unparalleled in our history," Daley told ·1 
votes out of 100 CBS. i million. With a Both candidates were working simulta­I few precincts still neously to prepare their transitions to 
unreported (as of power 
' Join the NE-W TRADITION 
~ 

LI Family Owned Tradition e,,0 r. e,~~ h ''llh eq«l._
~t-Original Family Recipes ~s JLL
"'f( u 
~~e~ ~s~ ~ ~ '"'Qe 
eff>~ e,-t'3i' 235 s. Michigan St. . ~ ll'. 'ei,,. ~-t -o\~~ South Bend, In 46601 -'#1 t. ~~}\,
v • 1,1,0-Ot.,, -,.,,
l___ :_~--~ ____dbt_e in/carry,=·::::::::recommend_e-1_ __~_ __ _______ 
DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND'S FINEST ITALIAN DINING 
and fight the ballot dispute. Democrats were trying to raise $3 million to finance Gore's challenge, while Republicans geared up their own fund-raising drive, The Bush campaign con­ducted conference calls with allies across thP country to rally the troops, but insteau heard a slew of complaints. GOP governors, in particular, warned that Bush's camp was losing the public rela­tions battle to Gore and need­ed to send more political and media operatives to Florida, said sources involved in one of the calls. The Bush cam­paign said aides were being sent and promised to be more aggressive. Nearlv 48 hours after the polls closed, Bush had won 29 states for 246 electoral votes. Gore had won 18 states plus the District of Columbia for 255. New Mexico and Oregon were too close to call. 

Friday, November 10, 2000
page 4 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS 


Brownson 
continued from page 1 
Also added to the building was a weight room and the Univtirsity finance office NamPd the fourth strongest man in the world in 1922, Fatlwr lfornard Lange, a pro­fessor of anatomy and biology. ran tho weight room. 
llis gym, which was housed in the natatorium until its destruction. and then moved lo Brownson. was famous for the slogan "One man in Twtrnty Thousand Can Press l[is Own Weight -Are You a Man?" 
During this 

The First Year of' Studies, the First Year of Studies was founded in 1962 and was housed in the main building f'nr eight years until it was moved to its current building· in 1970. 
Although the First Year of Studies was situated between such a motley group including religious. graduate students and the Earth Science Oepartment. it had no prob­lnms with its neighbors and was successl'ul in its mission of acclimating students to col­lege lifr. 
"We all got along very well. The courtyard of Brownson flall was great for us. we would have New Orleans' stvle 
cookouts "on 

time, a Friday
'Tm very happy [First
Brownson nights with Hall did exist Year Studies isl getting a 200 fresh­on campus -men and
new place."
it w,ts a male freshmen dorm in a teachers," wing of the Emil Hofman II o f m a n 
main build­founder and dean emeritus said. ing. Students Football
of First Year Studies 
lived in revenues Brownson during the II all and early 1970s Carroll llall, then another allowed the First Year of wing of the main building. Studies to create the Learning 
However. when the main Hcsource Center. whose goal building was rebuilt after the is to offer freshmen tutoring 1879 fire until 1941, the and other resources. in dorms were closed and resi­Brownson llall, adjacent to its dents were displaced into offices in the First Year of Sorin, Walsh and Zahm Halls. Studies buildings. 
111 1965. the University "Extra money came in for Council gave Brownson Hall, football reven ucs and the the former Ave Maria build­executive vice-president, ing. its current name. Father Joyce, who was in 
From this time on, priests charge of athletics and and other religious lived on finance. decided to use it to parts of the first and second create the Learning Hesource floors of Brownson. Center," said Hofman. "We 
International graduate stu­moved out the finance office d1mls lived on part of the sec­and Father Lange's weight ond floor and graduate stu­lifting room to build iL" dents lived on the third floor. In 1978, the student govern­
According lo Emil llofman. ment proposed to turn l'ounder and dean emeritus of Brownson Hall into under­
graduate housing during a 
· shortage of on-campus hous­ing, but graduates remained in the building until lhe 1991­1992 academic year when the 1-ischer Graduatr, llnl.ising was opened. 
From that year until now, the University has used the building to house organiza­tions whose offices were being renovated. 
Schellinger estimates that over I 00 organizations have had offices in Brownson dur­ing the past 10 years. 
If current plans do not change during the next three years, both Brownson Hall and the First Year of: Studies buildings will continue to be home tu many organizations 
Growing to the future 
The opening of' the Coleman­Morse Center provides oppor­tunities not only for organiza­tions whose offices will be housed there. but also for offices in Brownson llall. who will bcnent from the .addition­al available space. 
The new First Year of Studies location will allow it to continue its 40 year-old mis­sion. 
"Brownson llall was the place ¼here the First Year of Studies was done, it didn't mean that much to us. I'm very happy they arc getting a new place," he said. 
"What's going to come about now. is what I would have liked to have happ,1n when I founded the !irsl year of stud­ies." llof"man said. 
"I have a grievance. though. I taught in the old Cushing auditorium for 40 years. and then DcBartolo was built after I retired," he said. 
"I was the First Year of Studies Dean for 20 years in Brownson llall. and now they have the new building." 

Chastity 
continued from page 1 
homosexual rnlationship, until his lifo changnd. 
Ile was feE>:ling unfulfilled in his relationship, and was unsure what to do, until one quiet morning. when he had tho house to himself. Morrison dt~cided to pray. 
"I prayed the classic skeptic's prayer -Lord, I don't even know ii' you exist, but if you do, l sure need you in my life -and he came," Morrison said. 
Morrbon joined an Episcopal church, and ev1mtually, the call to chastity led him to Sl'paratc with his partner. lie became a Catholic. saying that thi'> church is the one most supportive of chaste lifestyles, and he has been a celibate homosexual ever since. 
J\rtcr Morrison's talk. he openc;d the floor to questions. and there was some heated dis­cussion. ! le was challenged by several students in the audi­ence. 
"I Morrison'sl cxperien<:e is one Pxpericncc. I le linds com­fort in a chaste lifestyle. I don't know many other people who can do that," said senior Joi' Shepherd. "I don't think he has the answer." 
Morrison defended his posi­tion, and the discussion went on for about 30 minutes, brfore the program ended. After the talk. OutreachND co-president Dave Wyncott said it was a good debate to have. 
"I think anything that raises awan~ncss of this and increases dialogue is good," he said. "I don't necessarily agree with everything that was said, bul I can have a dialogue with him." 
Before Morrison spoke. Father John I larvey, lbundcr of' COUHJ\GE, a Catholic organiza­lion that calls on and helps homosexuals to l11ad chaste lives, discussed the morality ol' gay acts. Ile pointed to the Bible. both New and Old Testament. and the oral tradi­t.io n handed down in the Apocryphal Books as evidence that it is an intrinsic disorder which Catholics must not act on. 
"The two purposes ·or human sexuality arc the perfect com­mitment of union with tlw hop(1 of having a child," ho said. "I lumosexual activity by its very nature dons not l'ulfill eithnr purpose. Thernfore it is immoral." 
Harvey also called homosexu­ality biologically unnatural, say­ing that men and women w<ire created with the ability to pro• create only in heterosexual ways. 
Tho Franciscan pri11st has written and lectured about earl' of homosexuals for morn than 40 years, and in 1')80, he found­ed COURAGE, a program run by the DioceSI\ of' New York. and since expanded to oth11r cities, to help gays and lesbians lead chaste lives under church teach­ing. 
IIr. stressed that his program was not intiindml as therapy to "cum" homosexuality. 
"Our goal is to teach pl'opk to live chasWly. We're not in the business of therapy," lw said. "We are not trying to chang<' people's orientation." 
Critics of COURJ\CE have said the group promotPs thnrapy to "convert" homosexuals to straight lifestyles. 
I larv1·y said that he dm~s not oppose therapy, but that he does not rncommnnd it to all who turn to him for h11lp. 
The talk w1L<; sponsored by llw Knights of Columbus, thP Jacqul's Maritain C1~nter. the Schubmchl-Prnin Chair Endowment and the St. Thoma-; More Society. 
•E·•·······...... ···.N:··...···.;  :;n•T···..·· ....  ·s···  
.········  :  ..  :  .  
-p  tr,  . -·.: ·.  ·.  .  .  .  .•.. ··  

Castle Point Select Units _Available for Next Semester 
::•within Minutes of Campus::• 
-Renovated, spacious one and two bedroom apartments, some with lofts. -Includes membership in the new Castle Point Racquet Club 
and Fitness Center. 





ATION 
Friday, November 10, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Red meat safe for consumption: 
France's consumer affairs minister said Thursday that no scientific evidence exists to justify th11 widening alurm gripping the country ornr mad cow disease. "Never was meat as safe as today," Minister Francois Patriat declared. llcalth Minister Dominique Gillot echoed the claim, saying that strict rules for meat produc­tion were ample protection against the illness. 
Suspected terrorists arrested: Police on Thursday announced the arrests of three Kuwaitis and seizure of a large quantity of explosives in an alleged plot that a local news­paper said v\ as directed at U.S. targets in other countries. The newspaper, Al-Qabas, said the arrested men had links to terror mastermind Osama bin Laden, Islamic fundamentalist scion or a millionaire Saudi family with ancestral roots in Yemen. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Child accidentally shoots brother: An 8-year-old boy accidentally shot his 7-ycar­old broth11r in the head, and when their 29­ycar-old stepbrother came home, he grabbed the gun and a stash of drugs and fled instead of calling for help, New Jersey authorities said. Shakur Forte, 7, lay in critical condition Thursday. Shakur and his brother had been left alone and were playing with a 9 mm gun in their bedroom when it went off. police said. 
NY cops foil sale of stolen art: Two Israelis have been charged with trying to sell $750,000 in stolen bronze scuptures to New York City collectors. Detectives arrested the two after being tipped off by a Madison Avenue gallery. They were charged with possession of stolen property and ordered held on $100,000 bail each. Investigators recovered seven small statues of tigers, a bull and other animals by the 19th century artist Antoine-Louis Barye. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Health deparbnent urges lead tests: 
Health authorities urged people living near a former plating factory to get their blood tested after soil samples revealed lead levels 19 times the federal limit. The Vanderburgh County l lcalth Department ofiered free blood-lead level tests to people living in a 16-block area sur­rounding the Evansville Plating Works. The neighborhood is a mix of businesses, apart­ments and older homes. Spokesman Phil Schermerhorn of the Indiana Department of Environmental Management also recommend­ed residents receive blood tests. 
Market Watch 11 /9 
Dow 

]ONES  10,834.25  -72.81  
UIE·1, 63 AMEX:  Same: 538  1""n:•910.94  Composite Volume: NIA  
Nasda<r  3200.35  -31.35  
NYSE:  656,20  
S&P 500:  1400.13  -9. I 5  

TOP5VOLUMELEADERS 
COMPANYISECl'RJTY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 

WURLDCOM INC (WCOM)  -4.83  -.8 I  J(i.12  
Cl.~CO WSTEMS (CSCO)  .2. 16  +I. 12  \J.l>  
ORACI.E CORP (llRCL)  •9.58  +2 ..:S7  27. ]l)  
NASDAQ 100 SHAR IQQQ)  -.02  -.01  75.69  
INTEL CORI' (INTO  -.Hl6  -I.JO  •I I.JH  

THAILAND 


Associated Press 
BANGKOK 

Prime Minister Chuan Leekpai dissolved parlia­ment and called general elections Thursday, prepar­ing for an uphill battle against a billionaire oppo­nent and an electorate unhappy with his economic policies. 
The election date was set for Jan. 6, Cabinet Secretary Visanu Kreau­ngam said. 
At least 57 parties are expected to take part in the elections, which will be con­ducted by a newly empow­ered Election Commission. It was allowed last month to 
UGANDA 

enforce stringent laws against cheating, exceeding campaign fund limits and vote-buying. 
Chuan's Democrat Party is facing serious criticism over his finance minister's policies. Critics say the min­ister botched a program to resolve problems stemming from the 1997 economic crisis that devastated Thailand's financial struc­ture. 
On Thursday, Chuan suf­fered a blow when deputy Finance Minister Pisit Leeahtam said he would not run in the elections and would resign from the Democrat Party's economic team. Commerce Minister Supachai Panichpakdi also said he would step down as the leader of the party's economic team. 
Chuan's main opponent, opposition leader Thaksin Shinawatra, has capitalized on anger over the slow pace of reforms to win support among the poor and the business community. 
His populist promises include debt write-offs for farmers, businesses and banks. He wants to set up a national asset management body to take over billions of dollars of bad loans that banks have been saddled with since the economic cri­sis. 
Until recently, Thaksin, a billionaire telecommunica­tions tycoon who heads the Thai Rak Thai, or Thai Patriots' Party, was seen as a shoo-in to take power. 
However, in recent weeks he has been tainted by a state anti-corruption panel investigation into allega­tions of unusual share transfers to his domestic servants to hide his assets. If found guilty, he will be barred from politics for five years. 
The dissolved House of Representatives was elected in November 1996 under the government of Prime Minister Chav ali t Yongchaiyudh of the New Aspiration Party. 

Ebola outbreak toll rises to 100 
Associated Press 
KAMPALA 

Ugandan health officials say an out­break of Ebola that has already killed 100 people is contained to two areas, but the death toll will increase as infected people die. Four people died of the virus in a 24-hour period. 
Authorities had hoped to keep the disease in Gulu, an area 225 miles north of the i:apital of Kampala where the outbreak was first reported in mid-October. But last week, experts confirmed that a Ugandan soldier who had visited Gulu died of the disease in Mbarara, a town in the south. 
On Thursday, Alex Opio, the assis· tant commissioner for national disease control, announced that two men died of Ebola in Mbarara, 17 5 miles south­west of Kampala. Two other deaths were reported in Gulu, he said. 
Since the death of the soldier in Mbarara on Nov. 2, three people who came into contact with him have died of the disease. Two of them were also soldiers and the third did community service at Mbarara hospital. There are no other reported cases of the virus in Mbarara. 
Nine new cases have been identified in Gulu during the last day, bringing the total number of Ebola cases in Uganda to 297, Opio said. 
Ebola, which is spread by bodily contact, can cause seYcre hemorrhag­ic fever and is often fatal. Early symp­toms are similar to the flu. No one knows where the virus exists between outbreaks or how the first person in an outbreak contracts it. 

page 6 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 10, 2000 
THE FOLLOWING EVENTS ARE HAPPENING AT THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE: Author Events: 
Friday, Nov. 10 at 11:00 a.m., Sculptor John David 
Mooney will sign copies of his book, Vatican Observatory & 
the Arts: The Sculpture ofjohn David Mooney at Castel 
Gandolfo. 

Friday, Nov. 10 from 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m., University 
of Notre Dame President Father Malloy will be signing 
copies of his book, Monk's Reflections. 
Saturday, Nov. 11 from 10:00 a.m. to Noon, Sculptor John David Mooney will sign copies of his book, Vatican 
Observatory & the Arts: The_ Sculpture ofJohn David Mooney 
at Castel Gandolfo. 

Saturday, Nov. 11 from 12:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m., Digg~r 
Phelps signs copies of his newly revised book, Basketball/pr 
Dummies. Digger is an ESPN Commentator and former 
basketball coach for Notre Dame. 
Storytime: Meet Cat in the Hat at our Children's National 
Book Week celebration. Stories, songs, and activities to celebrate on Tuesday, Nov. 14 at 11:00 a.m. 
Music Events: 

On Friday, Nov. 10 from 2:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. and Sunday, Nov. 12 from 2:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m., Pianist Emmeline Schoen, Class of '03, performs. HAMMES 
On Saturday, Nov. 11 from 9:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m., Pianist Joe Fremeau, Class of '02, performs. 
t<N ·.••·• T H E E C K C E N T E R
Acapella group, The Undertones, performs/one 
pbone:{>31-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com
hour after the game on Saturday, Nov. 11. 
JOYCE CENTER 
FOOTBALL WEEKEND HOURS 
Hainme$ Notre Dame Bookstore Varshy Shop (in 1he Joyce Cenrer) Friday •.· 9;00 am ~ 10:00 pm Friday 9:00 am -5:00 pm S,mnday 8:00 am -I 0:00 pm Saturday 8:00 am -7:00 pm Sunday 9:00 am 10:00pm Sunday I0:00 am -4:()0 pm 
Friday, November l 0, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Private school graduate students granted right to unionize 
By LAURA SEGURA 
News Writer 
Beginning this month, the National Labor Relations Board granted graduate studenls of pri­vate universities the right to form unions to negotiate terms of their employment as researchers and teaching assistants. 
Graduatf' students havf' arguf'd for years over the wages, benefits and conditions of their employ­ment at the schools they also attend as students. 
"I don't expect this to set olT a firestorm of organizing at all the top universities. but it is likely to have an effect at some," said Thomas Kochan of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
Much of the protesting has 
taken place at state and other large institutions where many graduate students argue their voices are not heard. Notre Dame does not expect to face labor dif­ficulties with its grad students, according to Peter Diffiey, associ­ate dead in the graduate studies office. 
"Because of the size of our school, we are able to deal with graduate student issues on an 
~ndividual 


basis without arbitration," 
Diffiey said. N o t r e 

By ANDREW THAGARD News Writer 
While most of the country's attention was turned toward the presidential elec­tion on Tuesday the Graduate Student Union considered a resolution support­ing The Observer's independence. 
Eleven representatives voted in sup­port of the resolution, six against it, and two abstained. However Mark Buckles and Alexander Samuel, GSU president and vice president respectively, could not decide whether the organization's consti­tution required a simple majority or approval from 2/3 of the members pre­sent in order to pass. Buckles and Samuel held off announcing the final decision until GSU secretary Joe Blacketor could be contacted. 
William Bolan, the organization's the­ology representative, introduced the res­olution. through which GSU would endorse The Observer's independence. 
"I read about the issue in The Observer and I thought it was something that the GSU should con~ider," Bolan said. 
"The fact that the faculty senate took up the issue was the main [reasonl for us to take up this issue as well," Bolan said when asked why he brought up the reso­lution. 
The proposal, similar in nature to one approved by the Faculty senate, stated that "The Observer's history of responsi­
. ble journalism does not justify any change in its status ... The editorial board of The Observer should maintain control over the paper's advertising and editorial content." It also concluded that "disputes ... against the editorial board Dame's graduate programs have not had to deal with the uproar heard on larger school's campus­es, in part because of the efforts of the Graduate Student Union already on campus. 
Arguments against unioniza­tion center on the graduate stu­dents' status as students. Teaching and research positions are meant to further students' postgraduate education, not enti­tling them to equal pay and ben­efits of a university employee, according to arguments against grad student unions. -Pro-union arguments state that some graduate students teach as much as 40 percent of essential teaching, making them justifiable employees of the univP-rsity. Without comparable wages and working conditions, many stu­d ents must find outside jobs depleting their study and research time. 

Other national universities have had to seek legal interven­tion, as most recently seen at New York University. 
Currently, there are only 12 recognized unions for graduate students employed by their uni­versities, all at state schools. 
GSU considers Observer support, delays decision 
cinema@thesnite 
I 
i 
t 
l.· 


of The Observer should ordinarily be resolved by good faith negotiations between the editorial board of The Observer and the offended party." 
Questions concerning the indpendence of The Observer arose after University President Father Edward Malloy created an ad hoc committee to examine the relationship between the University and the newspaper. Malloy created the com­mittee after The Observer editorial board rejected advertising restrictions placed on unrecognized gay and lesbian groups. 
Mike Connolly, The Observer's Editor in Chief, was present at the meeting to answer any questions representatives might have. The resolution, however, was not addressed until the end of the meeting, limiting the time members had to discuss the proposal. 
Many members expressed concerns about the GSU supporting The Observer's independence. 
'Tm in favor, in a large degree, of independence [for The Observer] but I'm uncomfortable with you not having any formal standards lin advertising]" said Keith Hubbard, the board's math repre­sentative. 
After the meeting, Buckles and Samuel reviewed the organization's constitution to determine if the resolution had passed but they were unable to reach a consen­sus. 
The decision was deferred until Thursday morning when secreta-ry Blacketor had an opportunity to review the constitution. The GSU concluded that a second vote is required before the res­olution can be adopted. 
"The discussion [on the resolution] will continue at the next council meeting on Dec. 5," Blacketor said. 
Fri. & Sat. 7:30 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. 
presented by NO Film, Television, and Theatre www.nd.edu/~cothweb 
Friday, November I 0, 2000 
page 8 The Obsetver . CAMPUS NEWS 
Week to highlight hunger, homeless with campus events 
By KYLIE CARTER 
News Wri,cr 
Several Notre Dame student groups have self-organized a series of live events next week for the National Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Weck -Nov. 12-17 -specifi­cally !'or the National Student Campaign against !lunger and llomclcssncss. 
The week will start off Sunday with Dillon Hall's Race for llungcr. This annual event was rescheduled to coincide with the Awareness Week. The race will begin at 2 p.m. 
On Tuesday, students will be asked at dinner to scrape food off of their own plates into the approximately 3 ft. by 4 ft. bins where food is normally scraped. Henc Mulligan, an active senior in the Center for Soclal Concerns who helped with of much of this week's organization. said the "Students for Clean Plates will be "a visual demonstration of how much food we. the stu­dents, waste at the dining hall." 

Students on average, 12 of these bins arc filled with wast­ed food each dav in each din­ing hall. · 
"The point is nut to repri­mand or make us feel bad. but to make us aware that just because we have all of this food doesn't mean we can waste whatever we want," Mulligan said. 
The key event of the week will be the Hunger Banquet on Wednesday evening. It will be held on the cast (left) side of South Dining llall and will begin at 7:30 p.m., although students arc asked to arrive ,at 7:15 p.m. Mulligan describes this event as "a fundraising meal with a message." Food services will be donating a portion of the cost of each per­son's meal. The cost will be a $5 donation for non-meal-plan users and will be a regular meal swipe for those with a meal plan. 
"It won't be your typical ban­quet," Mulligan said. "The audience will be able to learn about the causes of poverty and hunger and personal ways that they can take action to equalize things in this world." 
The Hunger Ranquet is based on a model by OxFam America, a non-governmental. non-profit organization that works for grass-roots-based solutions to poverty and hungPr around the globe. At this Hunger Banquet, Mike Brown will be the MC and them will be a guest speaker from East Timor, Ajizo Magno. 
On Thursday. a "Bread for the World" letter-writing SBS­sion will be held in the CSC at 4 p.m. Bread for the World is a Christian Institute that uses political advocacy and action to overcome societal ailments. 
A student can work at a soup kitchP.n and so similar service activities, but Mulligan said, "to really find long-term solu­tions and do more than just place·a band-aid on the prob­lem, you have to change lhings in the system." 
This letter-writing session will be teaching people to write letters using examples Bread t'or the World has given. 
The purpose or these letters will be to push for Congress to increase funding for emer­gency food providers, and to make food stamps available to 
legal immigrants. who arc unable to obtain them undnr current laws. 
The last event of the wnek will be Friday from 3 p.m. to 6 
p.m. at Stepan Center. The World Hunger Coalition will be preparing Thanksgiving food baskets for families in South Bend. 
The money from Wednesday's Lunch Fast pro­gram will be used to purchase food items and students am asked to help in the basket preparation. 
"College students are in a really good position to become aware and start practicing activism that can last our whole lives. We're still idr,alis­tic," Mulligan said. "We don't have to accept that in the rich­est, most powerful nation in the world. :H million people are going hungry." 
Native American speaks at SMC, focuses on women 
By SALLY GOLDBERG 
News Writer 
Discussing the religion, traditions, symbolism and music of a Native American lifestyle, John Warren, the cultural coordinator and vice chair of the Pokagon Band of Potawatami Indians, spoke at Saint Mary's on Wednesday. 
lie also focused on the importance of women in their tribe, which was of great relevance to the Saint Mary's stu­dents attending the lecture. 
lie was careful to caution that his views are specific to his own tribe. as every tribe is unique and has been taught differently. 
lie did mention that most tribes were similar in their respect for nature and Mother Earth. lie is part of the Potawalami tribe, which translates into "keepers of lire." 
In his tribe, nature plays a large role in their religion and daily life. They believe in the spirits of nature and feel that they have spiritual helpers that intervene in times of turmoil and confu­sion. 
Warren gave an example of nature's importance, "You get sick often because you sit up on chairs off the ground and wear rubber-soled shoes, which keep you from contact with the ground. If one 

of us gets ill. we sit on the ground for mostly by adults to clean the body of days to reconnect with the earth and be impurities or to seek and answer to a 
healed."  problem.  
They offer tobacco  Children fast to  be  
to the spirits and also  initiated  as  an  adult  
hold sage, cedar and sweet grass in high regard.  "The drum is the woman, the center, and the drum  Potawatami member, an important tradition called "taking them  
In respect to prayer  sticks the man, and they  through the Crescent  
he said, "We say prayers for other peo­ple, not ourselves, that  come together to create a heartbeat."  of the Moon .." The fire is central to the Potawatami tribe  
way everyone is cov­ and is looked at as a  
ered." They apply their religious beliefs to  John Warren vice chair of the Pokagon Band  circle of lil'e that is unending. Whenever they  
many sacred practices  begin a new fire they  
and rituals.  must use some ashes  

They hold long house ceremonies in from a previous fire, to emphasize the which they smoke a tobacco pipe, sing continuous nature of life. over 65 ceremonial songs, play the An aspect of their culture that was 
drums and dance in their ceremonial clothing. 
The women wear wrap skirts, a blouse and a large shawl used to wrap up their children. 
The shawls sym­bolize "the warmth that they have for their families," he said. As another rit­ual, fasting is done 

Veteran's Day 

Joint Military Ceremony 

Friday, November 10 
VD fKJ lC unffs pay tn'bute foAmen'ca '.s m11Jrary veterans vAth diflngu/1/ed !peaker 
Father T. Hesburgh
J.. Starts -4:00pm at Hddhouse Mall ~ 
~ llilDDI weather i!e-JACC Cmn " 
very prevalent in Warren's speech was their deep respect for women. 
The Potawatami believe that women arc the center of their lives because they give us life, according to Warren. 
Women in their tribe bless water, which they refer to as a female entity because it nourishes and sustains life. 
Hegarding the of importance women Warren said, "The drum is the woman, the center, and the drum sticks the man. and they come together to create a heartbeat. One cannot exist without the other." 
lie ended by playing his drum and singing, entering us into his own world and showing us its brilliance. 
Ile sang a song with no words and said, "We can sing this song with any tribe, because the sound and the emo­tion within it arc universal." 
Hot Jazz, Cool Treats 

Friday, November 10, 2000 
9pm-12am in the LaFortune Ballroom 
Come create your own FREE SUNDAE and enjoy the music ofthe Pat Heiden Quartet while you eat and relax with friends! 
Sponsored by Student Activities Office 
Friday, November 10, 2000 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
ENGLAND 
ADierican election deadlock intrigues world reaction 
Associated Press 
LONDON 

Two days after the U.S. presidential vote and with no clear victor, observers around Lhe world marveled Thursday at a rare spectacle American election uncertainty. 
In some quarters of the press, surprise at the dead­locked contest between George W. Bush and Al Gore turned to amusement. 
For its headline, Switzerland's French-lan­guage 24 Heures played on a famous line from the Apollo 13 spa.Ce CflSIS "Washington, we have a prob­lem." 
"Forrest Chumps," read the front-page headline in Britain's tabloid Mirror. above a picture of the two candi­dates in Gump-like poses. "This election's like a box of chocolates," ran the kicker. "You never know what you're 
going to get." 
The cliffhanger vote remained t"ront-page news around the world as a painstaking recount continued in the state of Florida, whose 25 electoral votes could settle the election. 
With nearly all the ballots recounted, Bush led by Jess than 300 votes. Elections offi­cials said the results wouldn't be certified for more than a week. 
For manv, the real lesson of this extraordinary election was its affirmation of the power of the individual. Japan's top economic daily, Nihon Keizai, said the election "made us realize the weight of each vote under the democrat­ic system." 
Around the world, newspa­pers had to backpedal from premature declarations of a Bush victory in their Wednesday editions. 
"Bush celebration interrupt­ed by recount in Florida," said Thursday's edition of Mexico Internet cafe in Cameroon. City's Reforma newspaper. A European newspapers tried day earlier it headlined: "The to he!p their readers get to 
United S t a t e s decides: Bush!" 
Britain's tabloid Sun proclaimed: "It's Bush, It's Gore ... oh, we give up!" 
Beneath the humor, observers were split between 
grips with the "... Those in the [U SJ who unfamiliar electoral col­
have always tried to 
lege system ­

become judges ofelections 
and many that take place elsewhere found it want­ing.
must be receiving a lesson 
Sweden's

ofmodesty and 
D a g e n s 

humbleness." Nyheter mar­veled at the fact that Gore
Felipe Roque Perez 
may yet win Cuban Foreign Minister the most votes 
those who viewed the dead­locked vote as evidence of a flawed electoral svstem and those who saw ·a robust democracy at work. 
"It seems incredible to me ho\'\· the elections are going in the United States, which is globally considered the father of democracy," said Alphonse Kwem, a worker in an 
November 7 -November 10 9am -9pm November 11 9am -5pm free admission open to the public Century Center Convention Hall B 
120 South St. Joseph SL South Bend, lN 4660f 
We accept VISA, MasterCard, American Express~ J.Crew credit cards. cash, and personal checks (with proper identification) 
Di1eclions, From the North or South· St Joseph Stre~t i, ano1thbou11d one-way street, the continuation or Business US 31, through downtown South Bend. From the South, the Centul)' Center is on the right side of tile street next to the river. The parking lot 1s on the south side of the Center. From the North. US 31/933 becomes Main Street (one-way southboundi in downtown South Bend Follow sou'hbound. turn lett to Jeffmon, turn left to St. Joseph Street r:entur; Center is on th~ right sirle From the East Indiana Tall Road 80/90 westbuund, !ooh for South Band Exit 77 Notre Dame. Turn 1ight at the bottom of the ramp, l1ead soul!1buund on US 311933 inlo the midd,e uf town. 
furn lett at Jellerson Streel into the Centu,y Center parking lot. 294 westbound, exit Route 12 towards Niles. Cross US 31 and St Joseph River Exr.t US 31/933 to South Bend. Take aleft on Jefterson Street. Centmy Center parkrng is at the end of the street. From the West Indiana Toll Road 80/90 ea~tbound, look for South Rend Exit 77 Nolie Dame Tum right at the bottom of \lie iamn, head sout~bound on US 31/933 into the middle ol the town. Turn left at lefferson Street into the Century Center parking lot 294eastbound. acmss the Michigan slate line, the second exil is marked Roule 12 N1le.s. Exit and turn right on Route 12. Cross US 31 and St. Joseph River. Exit US 31/933 to South Bend. Take• 1.11 on Jeller5Qn Street Century Cente1 parking is at the end o1 the ,treet 
but lose the 
election. 

"The chaotic situation has made many demand a new election system," the newspa­per wrote under the headline "The loser may become presi­dent." 
Norway's biggest newspa­per, Verdens Gang, agreed. "It is not in keeping with basic democratic principles for the one who gets the second­largest share of votes to win the presidential election," it said. 
Denmark's Aktuelt newspa­per said the fact that nearly half the U.S., electorate did not vote "is, in itself, a huge defeat for democracy." 
But British Foreign Secretary Robin Cook declared the process "an excellent example of democracy in action. That's what we would expect from one of the world's greatest democracies," he said. 
The Jakarta Post newspaper in Indonesia gave a "thumbs up" to the meticulous recount of ballots in Florida. 
"As a fledgling democracy. Indonesia could learn much from ... U.S. election and from the political maturity the 
American people displayed in adhering to their democratic principles," the newspaper said. 
Switzerland's Le Temps called the debacle -which resulted in some world leaders offering Bu~h congratulations, before hastily taking them back -"the most extraordi­nary failure in the history of television." 
"The obligation to announce the news before the news has happened will cost CNN and its sisters dearly,'' the news­paper said. 
Cuban Foreign Minister Pelipe Roque Perez, in New York on Thursdav for a U.N. visit, drew a link between the election's outcome and fre­quent U.S. advice to other nations. 
"I believe that those in the United States who have always tried to become judges of elec­tions that take place else­where must be receiving ales­son of modesty and humble­ness," Perez fioque said. 
He added that Cuba would gladly send monitors for a new election if asked by U.S. officials. 
Stock markets sagged under the uncertainty, with Tokyo's benchmark 225-issue Nikkei Stock Average finishing down 
2.2 percent Thursday. European shares also ended the day slightly lower follow­ing a 5.4 percent sell-off on the Nasdaq on Wednesday. 
Andy Penman, an analyst at Greig Middleton, said markets would remain unsteady until the election's outcome was certain. 
"The danger is that it could go through the courts as part of a legal process, and the markets do not want to see that happening," he said. 
~ '; OREAT WALij
Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant lor Seven Years in a Row Szechuan -Hurian -Cantonese -American Restauranl & Lounge Open 7 Days Lunch SpecialM.75 .. Mon· Fri 11:30 -3:00 PM Dinner Slarting at $6.45 Sunday-Thursday 1' :30 AM -10,00 PM Friday -Saturday 11:30 AM · 11 :00 PM 
Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday 
[ 
11 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
$8.95 for Adults 
$3.95 for Children under 10 
~22 Dixie Way, South Bend (219) 272-7376 
2000-0 I Season Notre Dame Film.Television, and Theatre Presents 

by Eric Bogosian, William Finn, John Guare, Tony Kushner, Marsha Norman, Ntozake Shange, Wendy Wasserstein 
DIRECTED BY SI/RI SCOTT 

Some themes and language in this play may be offensive to some viewers. 

PLAYING AT  WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15  7:30PM  
WASHINGTON HALL  THURSDAY,  NOVEMBER 16  7:30 PM  
RESERVED SEATS $9.  FRIDAY,  NOVEMBER 17  7:30 PM  
SENIOR CITIZENS $8.  SATURDAY,  NOVEMBER 18  7:30 PM  
ALL STUDENTS $6.  SUNDAY,  NOVEMBER 19  2:30 PM  

TICKETS ARE AVAILASLE AT THE DOOR OR. IN ADVANCE AT LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER. 
MASTERCARD AND VISA ORDERS CALL 631-8128. 
page IO The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 Friday, November I 0, 2000 
High student turnout at U. Florida attributed to tight race 
By SARAH MYRICK 
lndependem Florida Alligaror University of Florida 
GAINESVILLE. Fla. 
More than 50 percent of regis­tered .voters turned out in four voting precincts dominated by University of Florida students ­a result of what experts say is largely because of a competitive party system and a spine-tingling tight race. 
The election -which still has no clear winner -has come down to the line. with the results from florida determining the winner. Turnout at the American Cancer Society Winn-Dixie Lodgewas reported at 53.52 per­cent by the Alachua County Supervisor of Elections OtTice on Tuesday night. First Baptist Church, reported 53.35 percent, compared with 54.34 percent at the Beitz Union and 60.05 per­turnout was reported at 71.15 percent Tuesday night. The stu­dent turnout was considerably lower than the county turnout, but most officials said the turnout was good for students. Compared to the 1996 presiden­tial election, student-dominated precincts had an ·average turnout of 52.5 percent. accord­ing to an Alligator article from 

cent at the Samuel. P.  Harn  
Museum of Art.  
The Alachua County  voter  

1996. 

Florida had been labeled one of the key battleground states in the 2000 presidential election, which brought candidates and 
their supporters to the state often <luring the campaign.' Last week, Jesse Jackson led ~. rally through downtow,1~ Gainesville to encourage citi­zens to vote. and Green Party candidate Ralph Nader spoke at the University of Florida last 
Lt. Gov. Perry awaits presidential decision 
ByJULIE NOLEN Daily Texan UniversityofTo:as at Austin 
AUSTIN, Texas 

While America waits to see who will be the 43rd president, Lt. Gov. Rick Perry is waiting to see which office in the Texas State Capitol he will occupy. 
If Gov. George W. Bush is elected president. Perry will replace him as the state's next governor in mid-January. If Perry becomes gover­nor. the state Senate will vote to see who will become the next lieu­tenant governor. 
"The governor is the most visible leader of Texas state govern­ment," said State Sen. Je!TWentworth. R-San Antonio. "Arguably. the one that holds the most power in state government is the lieutenant governor, but very few know who [he is] or what he does." 
Senate members who have expressed interest in taking this posi­tion include Wentworth; David Silbey, R-Waco; Bill Ratliff, R-Mt. Pleasant; J.E. "Buster" Brown, R-Lake Jackson; and Teel Bivins, R­Amarillo. 
Before beginning his term as lieutenant governor, Perry. 50, served as a commissioner of agriculture from 1991 to 1998. Perry, who waduated from Texas A&M University with a bachelor's degree in animal science, was elected lieutenant governor in 1998. 
Perry also served as a member of the Texas House of Representatives from 1985 to 1990, and worked on the Appropriations and Calendars committees. 
Kathy Walt, spokeswoman for Perry, said he is prepared to take over as governor and will continue to focus on Texas, regardless of which job he has in January. 
"lie is focused on where he is today and doing the best job for 
Texas," Walt said. "I le is ready to work for Texas in a variety o areas from the lieutenant gover­nor's ()ffice or the governor's office." 
Wentworth, who met Perry 20 years ago at a young leaders' council in Washington D.C., saidl Perry has served well as lieu­tenant governor. 
"I le maintained electing mem­bers or both [political! parties to chair over committees (in the Senatlil," Wentworth said. "I cxp,1ct him to continue the biparti­san spirit he has adopted if appointed to Governor." 
State !lep. Glen Maxcy. D­Austin, said if Perry becomes gov­ernor. Texans should expect the same leadership from Perry as thP-y received from Bush. 
"It's a status quo situation; he's no new kid on the block." said Maxey. who was a member of the House with Perry. 'Tie's a steady manager, but don't expect dynam­
ic. bold leadership out of Perry." 
Maxey criticized Perry !or "slop-1 py" political work. adding that Perry should stay focused on state. issues before planning his 2002: campaign for governor. i 
"As long as he realizes he needs/ to pay attention to Texas firsl. he'll be better off." Maxey said. 
month. 

UF political science professor Michael Martinez said the visits probably encouraged a few more students to get involved or vote. 
"I think some students were energized by the events in the last few days of the campaign," said Martinez, who recently has published articles on voter turnout. 
'There were several events on campus and in town,'' he said. "Jesse Jackson's visit and George P.'s visit might have mobilized some students." 
Hichard Conley, a UF political science assistant professor who studies presidential elections in out.side for the polls to open at 7 this morning," Wiebeld said "That kind of turnout is unusual for this poll. I've never seP.n stu­dents show up like this before." 
Ryan Foster, a UF microbiolo­gy and cell science junior. said he made it a point to vote because he did not want the "country to screw me over with­out at least trying to vote for Gore." 
"I didn't want the country to go to hell in a hand basket without at least putting my say into things," he said. 
Jenny L Allen contributed to this report. 
¦ ¦ 
Ne\'V Meetings for Students and Young Adults. 

312 Lafortune Student Center Mondays7PM 
Now's the time ... 
Florida, said the voter turnout is partly because of the competi­tiveness of the two parties and the clos,eness of the race. 
"I think certainly all the media and high drama with Florida ... does [have an effect]," he said. Conley said the commotion sur­rounding the tight race encour­aged people as well. "It makes people realize their votes count. especially in a close election." 
Tuesday at the Harn Museum -a voting precinct laden with registered student voters -poll deputy Steve Wiebeld described the af'tf,rnoon scene as "fast and furious." 
"We even had people waiting 



to finish your degree at BETHEL COLLEGE 
Adult Education for Today's Busy Lifestyles 
• Experience a nontraditional environment 
• Attend accelerated classes 
• 
Advance your career 

• 
Realize your dreams 


• Focus on values 
Call Today! 
219-257-3350 or 800-422-4251 adultprograms@bethel-in.edu 
Friday, November 10, 2000. . the Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
White House celebrates 200 years with forlllal dinner 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

As the nation awaited word on its next chief executive, three for­mer presidents joined President Clinton at the White House on Thursday night to celcb1:ate the mansion's two centuries as a symbol of leadership arnl conti­nuitv. 
"1.lillary and I arc grateful beyond words to have served as temporary· stewards of the peo­ple's house these last eight years -an honor excccrlcd only by the privilege of service that comes with the key to the [ront door," Clinton said in exchanging toasts with the former presidents in the East Hoom. 
"In ways both large and small, each and every one of you has cast your light upon this house and left it and your country brighter for it" 
The formal dinner honored the building's history and the 40 presidents who have.lived there, but much of the attenliun was focused on three of its recent occupants; 
. Hillarv Rodham Clinton. New York's senator-elect and the only first lady to win high elected o!Ticc. She used the occasion to 
NEED A LOAN? Morrissey Loan Fund 
Up to ~250 at 1% interest rate for 30 days 
(must be a ND st:udent) 

La Fortune Student Center Across from the Information Desk 
Mondays from 3:00-4:00 Tuesday-Friday from 12:30-1 :30 
sl10w off a new, 300-place setiing of Lenox china, the first to fea­ture the-White House itsPlf in the center of a gold-edged plate. . 
. George and Barbara Bush, who have .a keen family interest in the outcome of the still unset­tled :woo presidential electioi:,. Their eldest son, Texas Gov. George W. Bush, and Vice President J\l Gore, are locked in an unpredictable Florida recount for the final votes needed to decide the next \!Vhite llouse ten­ant. 
Other honored dinner guests include former President Gerald 
R. Ford and his wife, Betty; for-. mer President .Jimmy Carter 
1and bis wife, Rosalynn; and for­mer first lady Lady Bird Johnson. Of the nation's living former presidents, only Ronald 
Reagan,  afflicted  with  
Alzheimer's  disease.  was  
unable to attend.  

Hillary Clinton, slipping seamlessly from her 16-month Senate campaign into her role as first lady, told reporters that the new china is the product of a two-year design effort in which she took an active role. The china is a gift to the executive mansion from the White House• Historil:al Association, which raised S240,000 from private donations. · 
The East Room had a head table for the Clintons and former presidential couples and round tables for the rest of the 190 guests. . 
The dinner menu, the selection of deserts and the 'v\ine list were an attempt to match the tastes enjoyed by White House guests in the age of John Adams and his successor, Thomas Jefferson, the first two presidents to live in the White House. 
Chef Walter Scheib prepared a menu vvith an emphasis on the kind of seasonal and local ingre­dients that likely were available along the Potomac River two c·enturies ago: seared striped bass, corn and crab fricassee·, and smoked loin of lambs with a sauce that included "heirloom apples" planted in York, Pa., in the 19th century. 
Pastry chef Roland Mesnier planned an "Abigail /\dams float­ing island" with a replica in white chocolate of President ·Adams' famous prayer offering "the best of blessings on this house." 
When the Adamses arrived in Washington on Novemb,~r 1800, the cHy was a dispirited land­scape of tree stumps, rutted muddy roads, construction debris and only a fe\.V new build­ings. 
The President's Ilouse, as it was to be called for decades. was chilly, damp and uncomfortable. 
"Our nation was new, carving out the symbols that would define it," Clinton said last week in a South Lawn ceremony cele­brating Adams' arrival. 
"Two hundred years later, these walls carry the story of America." 
Clinton meets with Yasser Arafat 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat slammed Israel on the White House doorstep Thu0rsday after a two-hour meeting with President Clinton on the violence that has shat­
t.e red already enfeebled peace talks. 
After shaking hands with Clinton and saluti.ng him as 
he left, Arafat told reporters 
1 in a rain-swept driveway that he had reaffirmed his com­mitmen.t to making peace, and the outcome depends on the efforts exerted by Clinton Clinton. 

The White House gave no indication that any g round 
1 

l
w a s :g a i ri e d toward a firm truce or the m o r e remote goal of 
reopening negotiations between the Palestinians and Israelis. 
In fact, administration officials abandoned the phrase "peace process" and replaced it with "political process." 
A White House spokesman, P.J. Crowley, would ~ot say whether Clinton asked Arafat for a public demand that Palestinian protesters stop their rock-throwing campaign against Israelis. 
But, Crowley said, "Clear statements by both leaders can only help." ·:we continue to be frustrated," Crowley told reRorters. " 
Arafat was defiant in his own exchange with reporters earlier. Thrusting at Israel, he said: "J am not the one who initiated the violence. I am not the one who is attacking Israelis. 
My tanks are not sieging Israeli towns. I did not order my tanks, my air force, my artillery, my heavy weapons, my navy." 
He interrupted his interpreter to make sure his English was conveyed as he wished. "We are facing a very dangerous situation that is really hindering the peace process," be said. "We are a nation with one airplane," Arafat said as he left. He met later at his Washington hotel with Secretary of State Madeleine Albright. 
(i·ra11d MaL 
S T l l) I 
Recording • Production • Mast · Duplication • Music & Vocal L Demo Production • Music Equi 
Sound & Lights • Sales & Re Ann!og 2" & Digital Hard Drive Sy 
•'Tfie Biggest Recording Studfi In No1thwest Indiana·· 

page 12 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, November I 0, 2000 
Arizona, Idaho receive monuments 
Associated l'rc» 
WAS! IINGTON 
President Clinton on Thursday crnatml a new nalional monu­ment to protect a spectacular line ol' red-hued cliffs in north­ern Arizona and dramatically expanded an Idaho monument featuring an eerie, volcanic landscape. 
The 293,000-acre Vermilion Cliffs Nalional Monument, nt>ar the Colorado B.iver north of the Grand Canyon, is the 10th mon­unwnt Clinton has created this yt1ar and the fourth in Arizona, ov('r the objections of thP state's governor and other Hepublican otlicials. 
Clinton also ordered 661.000 acres of l"cderal land added to the 54.440-acrc Craters of' the Moon National \lonurnent in central Idaho -expanding the monument by more than 12­fold. 
Clinton uspd his power under the 190(, Antiq uiti(!S Act to add protection to areas already owned by the federal govern­monl. Creating a monument allows the prnsident to ban log­ging and mining. rP.sl.ricl off­road vehicle use and grazing. 

and bring added prominence to "J do think that the outcome of the areas. the elPction will aff'Pct future 
Western llepublicans have monuments," said Pam Eaton of complained bitterly about nearly the Wilderness Society. all of the 10 Western monu­Top on en\'ironmcntalists' ments Clinton has created. monument wish list is lhe An:tic Critics say Clinton misused his National Wildlife Refuge in authority. locking away federal northern Alaska. Presidential land from commercial vPnturns hopeful George W. Rush and that would have brought jobs many other Hepublicans say oil 
and money to poor and remote "I do think that the 
areas. outcome of the election Clinton 
will affect future
had not noti­fied Arizona monuments. " 
Gov. .Jane 
!lull or the 
Pam Eaton
plans to cre­
Wilderness Society
ate the mon­ument by Thursday 
companies should be allowed to drill in the rPf'uge, while cnviron­mentalisl.s and Vice PresidPnt Al Gore say the area should be off-limits to drilling. 
Clinton has not said 

evening, said llull aide Scott whether he plans to make the Cellcy. While Celley said refuge a national monument, Clinton·s earlier monument des­which would block oil drilling ignations in Arizona were "uni­there. lattiral and poorly communicat­Bush also has criticized ed." the Vermillion Cliffs deci­Clinton's monument designa­sion was no surprise because tions buL acknowledged over­lntr!rior Secretarv Bruce Habbitt turning thl'In would be difficult. had recommended it in August. Congress may change monu­
Environmentalists, on I.he ments' status as it did mosl other hand, have: cheered recently with many of thl' monu­Clinton's monuments and urged ments President Jimmy CarLer him to create more. declared in i\laska. 
l'eenaged gunlllan gets 40-year sentence 
. Teen wounded 6 classmates last year 

CONYERS. Ga. 
A teenager who shot and woc1nded six high school classmates last year was sr,n­teneerl Thursday to 40 years in prison and 65 years of probation. 
T.J. Solomon, 17, who pleaded guilty but mentally ill a day earlier. hPld his he,1d in his hands through much of Thursday's hearing. lie stood up straight and had no visible reaction to the sentence. 
Superior Court Juugo Sidney Nation said h" foll sorry for Solomon, but said he would "err on the side or safr-ty for the community." 
Solomon opened tlrc with a sawed-off rifle at llcritag,\ lligh School in suburban Atlanta on May 20, 1999, on<' month after the Columbinn 
lligh School massacre in Colorado. 
No one was killed or criti­cally injured, and witnesses said Solomon, then 15, aimed below the waist. 
Witnesses said he surren­dered to an assistant princi­pal with a tearful: "Oh, my Cod, I'm so scared!" 
Solomon's attorney, Ed Garland. had recommended 10 years in prison and indi­catNl he may appeal. 
'Tm very sad. I'm very dis­a ppoi n tcd T.J. will not be provided treatm1\nt for his mental illness." Garland said. 
Victims who were in thn courtroom hugged after tho sentence was announcP.d. 
Michael Cheek, whose son Jason was shot twice. describ!1d thn sentencing as '"bittcrswPet." 
"I feel sorry for T . .J. and his f'arnily but hn did the crinrn and h1: should be punished for it." Chenk said. 
.Jason Clwck, now a frnsh­man at Curnlrnrland Collog11 in Williamsburg, Ky., was not in court. 

Notre Dame Students, Alumni and Crew Team 
Thank you for donating your 
I

tickets to LOGAN Center. 
Because ofyour generosity over 70 people with disabilities 
~ 


ot nts • Gift Certificates • Guaranteed Satisfaction! 
Your choice! E;ther to tanning bed se=bns forjust $35 
I OR an entire Month of bed tanning for only $40. I
were able to enjoy the Air Force game this year. 
I AND when you bring in this coupon get 25% off our wide selection of tanning lotions! I 
I 272-7653 NEW University Location State Road 23 & Ironwood I
~ 
256-9656 Corner of Grape and Md<inley 291-2000 Southland Plaza Ireland & Ironvvood
www.logancenter.org LOGAN 
/;IJJawttM!'llu/111 
~---~-------------------J 
Bed N' Breakfast Registry }.,yce Smigic:lski · Sta)' i11 a "Home: dose t<l"thc: Dome" 
219/232-0774 888/830-7722 

A perfect meeting place
http://husiness.mid1iana.org/bnhrcg/ 

throughout the weekend. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used Books bough! and sold 

Open Friday and Saturday D.Iring
-25 Categoncs of Books 
-25,000 lla.-dback and Paperback books in 
stock 

ND. Hon1e Football Weekends. 
-Out-of-!'rinl search ser.·1c~ 
•Appraisal~ l~rge ,mil snwll 
Open noon to six Tuesdau through Sunday 

Everyone Welcome 
1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 

Live Music Fridays, 2-6p.m. 
Grilled Burgers, Brats, and Other Specialties Cold Beverages & Spirits
la · , · a 

60" Screen TV's Smin Fully Enclosed Tent
from 0UTlll0 
Campus 

next to the N.D. Bookstore.
Coll 259-1000 for more details 
For Your Best Tan Ever! Get a Fun Tan! 
., ll I

1111 
C 
,Q 
11 



Friday, November 10, 2000 The Observer . NEWS page 13 
NETHERLANDS 
Ne-w cancer drug sho-ws promise, but cure .unlikely 
Associated Press 
AMSTERDAM, Netherlands 

Eagerly awaited test results on a much-publicized new cancer drug designed to stop tumors by cutting off their blood supply indi­cate the medication is safe and show promising signs it may help control the disease. 
However, the results discussed Thursday at a s}'Tilposium on new cancer drugs suggest that the drug endostatin is unlikely to be the kind of across-the-board can­cer cure that many had hoped for. 
The drug was tested on termi­nally ill cancer patients largely to assess its safety. 
No dramatic recoveries have so far been seen among the 61 patients studied. 
"Some patients benefitted, but many did not," said one of the an assistant professor of medicine at the M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston. "These patients were very sick. Most of their tumors are going to grow no matter what you do." 
The best results were seen in a 50-year-old man with cancer in his jaw. 
His tumor shrank by 62 per­

cent in eight weeks. 
A tumor in the pancreas of 

another patient shrank by 19 
percent after he had been taking 
the drug for a year. 
ln five other cases, the disea,;;e 

remained stable, with the tumor 
neither progressing nor shrink­
ing. 
Despite the lack of cures, the 

testing provided some evidence 
the drug may cut off a tumor's 
blood supply, a'i intended, offer­
ing hope the approach could 
work better in patients who are 
less desperately ill. 
Blood flow through the tumors became less robust and chemi­cals involved in blood vessel cre­ation diminished as patients were given increasingly higher doses of endostatin. 
No serious side effects were 

noticed in any of the patients. the 
scientists said. 
While some experts considered the test results "tremendously promising," others were cau­tiously optimistic. 
The recent discovery that angiogenesis, or the creation of new blood vessels, is vital to a tumor's survival has been the 
Mexican rapist, killer executed in Texas 
amid protests from foreign
Associated Press 

countries that say he was denied his right under an internationalHUNTSVILLE, Texas treaty to contact the Mexican
A Mexican-born killer was 

consulate after his arrest. 
executed by injection Thursd_ay 
About five hours before 

basis for the hottest area in can­cer research. 
Drugs that attack the process are called angiogenesis inhibitors. Endostatin is one of dozens of such drugs, which are at varying stages of development and attack blood vessel growth from differ­ent angles. 
"Manv of them have shown lit­tle toxicity, and this is not the first to show a response," said William Li, head of the Boston-based Angiogenesis Foundation, a non­profit information clearinghouse that tracks research in the field. 
"But it's unprecedented at this stage of testing to have such a comprehensive measurement of markers that indicate there might be a benefit." he added. 
Tracking the indirect indicators has allowed scientists to see more promising signs earlier in the research than normal, Li said. 
Besides M.D. Anderson. the Dana-Farber Cancer Center in Boston and the University of Wisconsin Comprehensive Cancer Center in Madison conducted the studies. 
The Boston study was spon­sored by the drug's maker. EntreMed of Rockville, Md., while the other two were funded by the 
U.S. National Cancer Institute. 
Some experts predict endo­statin and the other drugs will in most cases halt cancer growth, turning the disease from an acute fatal illness into a low-level ongo­ing condition, like diabetes or arthritis. 

Miguel Flores was strapped to a chamber gurney for the execu­tion, the U.S. Supreme Court, in a 5-4 vote, denied his request for a reprieve. 
Earlier this week. both the Texas Board of Pardons and Paroles and the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals refused to halt the execution, the 35th this year in the nation's most active death penalty state. 
Flores, 31, was condemned to die for abducting, raping and stabbing to death 20-year-old Angela l\farie Tyson as she left her summer job at a video store in 1989. lie issued an apology to Tyson's relatives before he was executed. 
"I want to say I'm sorry. I said a prayer today for you so you can have peace. I hope you can forgive me," Flores said, choking back tears. 
When Flores was arrested, he was not allowed to contact the Mexican consulate as called for under the Vienna Convention of Consular Relations, his backers argued 
"We firmly believe that timely assistance from the Mexican consulate would have meant the difference between life and death for Miguel Flores," attor­ney Richard Ellis said. 
Roy Carper, who prosecuted Flores, countered: "There's no dispute that wasn't done. But Mr. Flores claimed to be a U.S. citizen, and that would knot:k out anything the Mexican gov­ernment has to do about it." 

The Easy Banking Club 
for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Faculty and Staff 
Great Benefits 
Sign up for direct deposit payroll at 1st Source Bank and receive the following great benefits: 
• 
Free checking account* 


• 
Interest on balances over $ 750 

• 
Unlimited check writing 


• 
Free Resource® o; Resource Plus® card 

• 
1/2 % interest discount on co'1sumer loans 

• 
$100 mortgage closing cost discount 

• 
On-line Banking account information access ­free for three months 


Ask Human Resources or a 1st Source Bank representative for details on how easy it is to Join. 
Now More Convenient Than Ever! 
In addition to our banking center and ATM in Haggar 

College Center, and our ATM in the Hesburgh Library, we now have a third ATM in LeMans Hall at Saint Mary's. 
Plus, we've extended our hours at Saint Marys to serve 
you even better. 
Saint Mary's Banking Center• 235-2019 M-ih • 1lJIJC to 4:00 F • 1000 to 4:30 lstsource.com AOL Kevword: 1~ 5ource Bani< II
L'.:::::=======-=============-=:::-=-=--=~'===:::.:::.:::_-:...-_--_-_-_-_-:._-_-_-_-_.::.,=.=-=-=============:'..l
'Subject lo new account credit restrictions. 
-·--

VIEWPOit-JT 
THE 

page 14 OBSERVER Friday, November 10, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
l'.O. Box Q. No<rc Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining HaJJ. Noirr Dam,. IN <i6S56 
£1.)ITOR IN CHIU: Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 

AssT, MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER Christine Kraly Brian Kessler 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Marringly VltWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smirh Sa:NE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARYS EDITOR: Molly McVoy PH01·0 EorroR: Elizabcch Lang 

ADVERTISINC. MANAGER: Par Peier• Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila S¥Srf.MS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunvillc WF.8 ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CoNTR0U.ER, Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cudbr 
CONTACT Us 
OFf!CE MANAUR/GENERAl INF0..............631-7471 FAX...................................... .............631-6927 ADYF.RTISING.....................................63 !-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF. .... ..................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR!AssT. ME.. .. ...............631-4541 BUSINF.SS 0tl'ICE........ ................................631-5313 NEWS.................................................... ......631-5323 
observcr.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT............................. ..................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
SroRrs ........................................................ 631-4543 
observer.spores. I@nd.edu 

SCENE......................................................... 631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 

SAINT MARYS............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu 

PHOTO.....................................................631-8767 
SYSrEMSIWF.ll ADMINISTRATORS.. .. ...........63 !-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visi1 our Web site at h1tp:llobsm1er.11d.edu for daily updat<-s of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns. as wdl as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up--to-the 
movics/mwic for 
minute forCClSts 
weekly scudent reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives ro search for 
about The Observer 
articles published afrer 
10 meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent. daily newspaper published in prim and online by rhe sruden!5 of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either insriturion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhc opinion of rhe majority ofrhc Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, lcncr, and columns pr<:Sent the view, of the authors and nor necessarily those of The Observer. 
Vic-wpoint space is available wall readers. The free expres:sion of all opinions through lcrtcrs is encouraged. Utters 10 1hc Editor mu•t be •igncd and must include contact infurmacion. 
Qunriom rtgarding ObJmin-policitJ should b, dimt­,d I.O Editor in Ch4Milu Connolly. 
Address all issues of homosexuality 
father John llarvey's talk Thursday ty on these two campuses. I larvey missed night in DcBartolo llall was clear and con­a chance to make Notre Dame and Saint cise in its explanation of church dogma in Mary's a welcoming place for homosexu­regards to "same-sex attractions." His talk als and live up to Notre Dame's "Spirit of 
failed to address. however.several key 

OJhe
issues concerning homosexuality at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
1larvey began his 

FJitorial 
talk by saying "I could talk about the hostile environment but let's skip all that. Let's just get down to Lhe teachings of' the church." 
By "skipping all that" in regards to the hostile environment toward homosexuali-
This writer and every American pollster certainly had it right when we labeled the 2000 presidential race "too close to call." The surprise is not the closeness of the election but what exit polls revealed ­some big surprises 
about why things turned out the way they did. 
Two obvious sur­prises are evident. The first is that Tennessee did not back its native son, Al Gore, whose 


moderate stands on Gary Caruso 
issues arc not radi­
cally out ofstep 

with the state. I lad Capital 
those eleven elec­

Comments 
toral votes gone Gore's way, he would have had 271 votes, one more than needed, without the cliflhanger in Florida. 
Tennessee's Republican Party is proud to have partnered with the gun lobby to deny the Democratic nominee the state. Many view Hepublican hostility towards President Clinton in both Arkansas and Tennessee as more tenacious than any­one's loyalty to college football teams like the Razorbacks or Volunteers. 
The second surprise is the so-called "butterfly ballot" in Palm Beach County, Florida, which increased the size of the print so older voters could better see the candidate names. In an effort to fit all the presidential candidates near the top of the ballot, the names were listed on both sides of the punch hole instead ol'the usual listing on the left side. No state should permit their various counties to separately devise the layout of a ballot, thus setting the stage for the Palm Beach fiasco. 
While the nation focuses on Florida's recounting of the popular votes, which will determine the electoral vote winner and ultimately the president, the voters themselves made statements on exit poll surveys which were contrary to what the polling tracked. Despite the concerted effort of the Gore campaign to focus the Inclusion. 
ff 

On campus,.,s where "kill all tho fai~s" can still be found scrawled on the bathroom wa:!ls, a dia­logue must be opened concerning these nega­tive attitudes. The University and College 
should bring more speakers to campus to continue the discussion of ministering to homosexuals in a Catholic environment. 
Harvey was too quick to dismiss suicide concerns of homosexuals, violence against 
===============================================-­
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 

homosexuals and intimidation of homo­sexuals as inconsequential in his talk. When audience members brought up their concern with higher rates of suicide among gays and lesbians. Harvey denied homosexuals that have higher suicide rates. Even if the suicide rates arc not higher as Harvey claims. the suicide con­cerns of many homosexuals cannot be so casually dismissed. 
When Notre Dame and Saint Mary's address all the church's teachings regard· ing love and respect for each other. in addition to the call for everyone outside of marriage to lead chaste lives, only then will the institutions adequatr.ly minister the homosexual members of their commu­nities. 
Unpredictability of electoral results 
campaign on policy issues and experi­
ence, voter choices were strongly influ­
enced by perceptions of charactor and 
leadership ability. 
No single issue dominated the presiden­tial election in the way that honesty and leadership qualities seem to attract Bush support. Bush won the confidence ofvot­ers by significant margins. They consid­ered "honesty and trustworthiness" as the defining qualities for the next presi­dent. In fact, more voters cited honesty as the factor most influencing their vote than named any single policy issue, which was a stunning blow to the vice presi­dent's strategy. 
Overall, one-fourth of voters said hon­esty was the personal quality that mat­tered most to them. Bush captured more than three-fourths of those suipporters. Bush also succeeded in securirig two­thirds of votes cast by the 13 percent of Americans seeking a president who would demonstrate good judgment in a crisis. Among the 15 percent ofvoters who ranked "experience" as the quality that mattered most to them, the vice president was the stronger candidate. 
Exit polls showed that overnll. 18 per­cent of voters said the economy was fore­most in their choice for president, 15 per­cent cited education, 14 percent cited social security, 13 percent named taxes and 12 percent named international affairs. Healthcare garnered 8 percent while Medicare funding for prescription drugs got 7 percent -two prnminent issues for the Gore campaign -were ranked lowest among voters nationwide. 
Remarkably, the Texas governor was the dominant choice among voters nam­ing world issues as most important. Bush also led among those who listed taxes as their most important issues, but the vice president secured the votes of those rank­ing the economy, education and social security as key. 
Bush and Gore received support from their traditional party bases, but split the vote among Independents, 45 percent to 44 percent, respectively. Even though Ralph Nader drew only 3 percent of the popular vote, two points less 1;han pre­election polls predicted, his impact was two percent in Florida. hurting Gore's 
candidacy. 
At the national level, exit polls found 9 percent of liberals casting their votes for Nader, as well as 6 percent of Independents. Nader also had appeal among voters who believe Al Gore has been too conservative on the issues. 
The resull'i also clearly indicate that Nader gained support from younger vot­ers, which clearly came at the expense of' Gore. Among those 18 to 29, Gore edged out Bush, 48 percent to 46 percent, and 5 percent went to Nader. Notably, Gore's vote with this age group was five poinl'i lower than President Clinton received in 1996. 
Bush decisively took the white males (60 percent), wealthy Americans (54 per­cent of those with incomes exceeding $100,000) and married couples with chil­dren under the age of 18 (56 percent) in this week's election. 
Gore was the preferred candidate among women (54 percent). senior citi­zens (51 percent), African-Americans (90 percent), Latinos (62 percent), Asians (55 percent), Jewish voters (79 percent) and Catholic voters (50 percent). Abortion rights proponents, 56 percent of the elec­torate were strong supporters of Gore. 
The election is keeping the nation transfixed about which man will emerge as victor with only a handful of votes sep­arating the two candidates. Absentee bal­lots have yet to arrive in Florida and recounts will continue. One court will def­initely consider a challenge that has been filed. Regardless of who eventually wins the contest, the exit polls have shown that both campaigns' appeal to the electorate was not quite what we originally expected -sort of like the outcome of Florida. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is serving in President Clinton's administra­tion as a Congressional and Public Affairs Director and is currently assisting Vice President Gore's White House Empowerment Commission. His column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_ -_ -_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_ -_ -_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_ 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The more you encourage someone else's freedom ofexpression and the more different that someone else is from you, the more democratic the act. " 
Wynton Marsalis musician 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Friday, November 10, 2000 BSERVER page 15 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Reacting to issues raised by the election 
Electoral College should stay firmly in place 
This letter is in response to the Nov. 7 editorial calling for the abolition of the electoral college. The editorial board points out that voters today have greater access to information about candi­dates and that the principle of equality requires a decision via popular vote. 
The editorial is wrong. The chief reason why we should retain the electoral college is that it cuts down on fraud. For example, so long as Illinois Democrats know their state only gets 24 electoral votes no matter how high the turnout. they will lack the motive to pad their state's vote totals. In a popular vote though, padding in a few large states could make the difference. Admittedly. politi­cians will always have a motive to commit fraud when the contest in their state is close. 
As for the idea that equality requires a popular vote, that value is outweighed by other considerations in our confederated repub­
lic. We have a system of checks and balances designed to see that the majority does not tyrannize the minority. The electoral col­lege, like the Senate, dampens the power of states with large pop­ulations to impose their will on smaller states. This seems particu­larly appropriate in the 21st Century, when much of.the popula­tions of those large states are dependent upon federal entitle­ments (i.e., the elderly). Many people in the more urban states do not "vote" so much as they arc "voted." (Witness Al Gore's ruth­less attempts to scare the elderly this fall.) To dampen the elec­toral influence of these voters serves to ensure that the election will be decided by those voters who stand at arm's length from the federal government and who can therefore, like disinterested jurists. objectively evaluate the candidates. These voters are able to judge Mr. Gore and Mr. Bush based on the merits of the two men and not on the ability of each to put money in their pockets. 
I will heartily embrace the abolition of the electoral college when we disenfranchise every voter who collects a check from the federal government each month. 
Peter Zavodnyik 
class of '92 November 9, 2000 

Invitation ofLieberman compromised University's Catholic morality 
The extremelv close election results in Florida and around the' nation demonstrate that this University should have taken a stronger stance and not allowed Senator Lieberman, a Pro­Choice candidate, to speak here. In a race that Lieberman predicted would be as close as "one extra vote per voting precinct." Notre Dame pro­vided a one-sided forum for Lieberman's mes­sage and placed its imprimatur on the entire dis­play. Not only did the seal of this Catholic University stand physically behind the' senator as he spoke in Washington Hall. but now the specter of our Notre Dame president shaking hands with Lieberman before that seal continues to stand symbolically as implicit approval of Lieberman's policies. 
Lieberman came here for political purposes ­one of which (his record indicates and his run­ning mate proudly declared) is the continued legalization of abortion. Consequently, Lieberman's presence at Notre Dame possibly served to influence undecided voters on this campus, in this community and around the nation. Undecided Catholic voters in Florida especially, looking for guidance in this election. may have been misled by Notre Dame's failure to speak out against Lieberman's policies. Indeed, CNN exit polls indicate that 50 percent of Catholic voters voted for Gore, while 47 per­cent voted for Bush. In a race in which the win­ner will directly affect the composition of the Supreme Court and have a say in the continued legalization of partial-birth abortion, Notre Dame failed to fulfill its responsibility of provid­ing leadership to this nation's Catholic voters. How ironic that Lieberman's message was.criti­cal of those who "shrink from drawing bright lines and making moral judgments." For, simply allowing Lieberman to speak proved his point. This University "shrink[ed] from drawing" such "bright lines" by ignoring the abortion issue while Lieberman was here. Notre Dame should have seized the opportunity to promote the sanc­tity of life and provide guidance for voters despite Lieberman's efforts to avoid the issue. 
The current application for admission to Notre Dame asks prospective students, "for what cause would you choose to be an 'extremist for justice' as defined by Dr. [Martin Luther] King" in his Letter from the Birmingham Jail. Should any of the thousands of applicants hoping for admission discuss abortion, they might be disappointed upon acceptance as they realize that here too at Notre Dame, where one hopes to find passion about this issue, one is instead disappointed by passivity. 
This is not to say that no contrary political candidate may speak at this school. Rather, Notre Dame must act with responsibility as a Catholic University as it promotes such academic discussions. Allow political speeches and debates of diverse viewpoints but do so in an academic manner presenting various sides of the issue. The close nature of the election and the ratio­nale offered by political commentators that there are no "burning" issues dividing the nation, call to mind that single voice breaking the silence during Lieberman's Notre Dame speech­"What about abortion?" As so great a cause (Pro-Life movement) now relies upon so few votes (those in Florida), Notre Dame, like that single voice in the Lieberman's audience here, should have stood before the academic commu­nity and the nation to demand of Leiberman/Gore an answer to the question ­"What about abortion?" 
Kevin E. Barton 
Law Srudenr 
November 9, 2000 

Election presented voters with unwanted candidates 
Nov. 7 was not the most important night of election 2000. It was March 7, when trary, misguided "peacekeeping" that makes matters worse, without anything close John McCain's defeat in the Republican primaries left the nation with two lacklus-to a vision worthy of America's greatness behind it. As a presidential candidate, ter candidates. McCain could have given Clinton's hegemony-on-the-cheap just the critique it 
Neither Bush nor Gore ever convinced the electorate. The polls drifted one f'.. _ deserves. But he was out of the race. way and the other and in the end the election was so close that the winner ~C.~~ Maybe a dull election reassures the seniors or WaH Street fat cats who has no real mandate. It didn't have to be this way. McCain showed that he r,~C? w: want gridlock. But the young are exasperated. My friends voted against. wo~ld win the s_u_pport of indepen~ents and even Democrats and his fiery p 1,i..D T~e ones who thought that Bu~h ~as ~~? dumb to be president ~oted cr1t1que of the Clmton-Gore adm1mstrat10n would have kept the race _"""'"...... Gore. The ones who thought (,ores st1fl-backed self-assurance 1s creepy 
/
interesting. Election 2000 could have been a true decision. voted Bush. Some (myself included) opted for Nader as a protest. Some 
McCain deserved the presidency because he best embodied the will of stayed home. But nobody's heart was in it. The young sent their message the people. During the McCain insurgency, polls that asked voters to in the primaries, with strong support for McCain. They were overruled choose between Gore, Bush and McCain found that each ran with 33 by the inertia generation. From then on, the candidates talked over their percent support. In some countries voters list the several candidates in heads to the graybeards about Social Security and Medicare. order of preference and second preferences are added up until a candi-I don't know whether we need to break the two-party system, or, if so, date gets a majority. Under this system. polls suggest McCain would tie how to do so. I don't know whether proportional representation would in the first place round, but sweep the second choice round because he is help. I don't know how to give the young a voice in politics. But I do know the second choice of most supporters of either Gore or Bush. Instead the 
who should have won the 2000 election: John McCain. primaries punished McCain as a freethinker and Election Day forgot him. 
McCain's issues are the ones that should have mattered most in election. Nathanael Smith 2000. Bush has fine ideas about education but that is not under the presi-Senior dent's jurisdiction. Foreign policy, however, is eminently the president's busi-O'Neill Hall ncss. The breakdown of the Israeli-Palestinian peace talks exemplify the bankrupt-Ocrober 9, 2000 cy of what McCain called Clinton's "photo-op foreign policy," his haphazard. arbi­
w E 
~flCN D 
page 16 Friday, November I 0, 2000 
When I went t 
Scene speaks with alumni to see just how the atmosphere and adm 

By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Scene W mer 

When 147 students were cited at Finnigan's Irish Pub the Thursday before fall break. they faced a possible fine and community service. The University also stepped in and sched­uled HesLife hearings where students might faco additional community ser­vice and alcohol counseling. 
For Fritz Holegrefe, Class of 1964, the stakes were much higher when he was caught in a bar as an undergrad. 
"If you got caught in a raid, you were gone," he said. 
Holegrcfe went to a vastly different Notre Dame than the school under the Dome today. The rules were strict, sti­fling and unforgiving. At the then all­male school, dorm room visits from girls were forbidden. daily mass was practically mandatory and most of South Bend was taboo. The Fathers of the Holy Cross tried to 
"Lights went out at I I.
make certain that weren't allowed to their students weren't The electricity went out wear shorts spending time in the except on the golf
at I I."
pool halls and bars of course. We weren't the city. allowed to have "You'd sneak Tom Rohrer bicycles and. of 
around if you could. Class of 1956 course, there were 
breaking labor and lunch breaks that were too short. 
Soon the officers reached Holegrefe and the two men. They asked the man on Holegrefe's left for his ID. 
"The cop came by and we're sitting here raising hell about work and they card this guy next to me -he's 55." Holegrefe said. "So the other guy says 'What are you carding us for? Me and this guy [HolegrefcJ had a really bad day at work."' 
The embarassed officer just walked away without carding Holegrefe. Thanks to some quick thinking. llolegrefe remained in school long enough to earn his degree and gradu­ate in 1964. 
Graduates from Notre Dame in the 50s and 60s remember the University being a much stricter school with rules like bed checks, morning checks and dress codes. 
"Notre Dame was a whole lot differ­
ent than it is today," 
said Tom Rohrer, 
Class of 1956. "We 
but certain parts of town were off-limits," llolegrefe said. "Probably 3/4 of the city of South Bend was off-limits. If you were caught. it didn't make a darn bit of difference when you were caught, you were out." 
So when South Bend police raided Joer's Bar and Grill in South Bend. as a 19-year-old student. Ifolegrefe knew he was in trouble. 
He first tried to hide from the cops in the women's bathroom. but it was already full of frightened underage patrons. Next he ventured to the base­ment where there was a special room for avoiding the offi­cers. But again, he was too late. The back­room was stuffed with students. 
So llolegrefe went back up to the bar and sat down between two older men -one • in his mid­50s and 
• 

one in his early 60s. "I said 
• 

'Guys, lis­ten to me and let's carry on a convers,t­tion. We are going to talk about how lousy a day we had at work."' Holegrefe said. 
So the Notre Dame undergrad and the two older, bluecollar workers began to complain and gripe about how awful their jobs were, They traded made-up stories about overbearing bosses, back 
no girls." Notre Dame 
wasn't just an all­male school before 1972; women were barely allowed on campus ­and never into a student's dorm room. 
"It was all you could do to get your mother in your room on a football weekend," Holegrefe said. "When I was here, you had four service acad­emies in the country -Army, Navy. Air Force ... and Notre Dame. Ahd in this place, the rules were probably tougher." 
While alcohol was banned from campus. students still found a way to keep a little beer around and, like today, adminis­trators usually turned a blind eye to the occasional on campus alcohol vio­
lation. 
J i m Haering, Class of 1955. said 

he and his fellow Howard Hall resi­dents used to keep bottles of beer in the flush tanks of toilets to keep them cold. Little refigerators didn't exist yet. so the cold water kept the 
beer at least a little bit cooler. This method worked 
for several months without a problem until a notice was tacked to the bulletin boards by the 
rector asking students to stop putting beer bottles in the tanks. Apparently. the labels kept falling off the bottles and clogging up the plumbing. 
A few weeks later, another notice appeared on the boards thanking the students for switching to canned beer and ending the label problem. 
Another alum­nus relates a story from the 60s when sever­al students rigged one of the soda fountains in the dorm to dispense beer rather than Coke. Although the keg was seized as soon as the rector dis­
posedly was too intrigued by the ingi­nuity shown by the students to prose­cute anyone. 
Despite stories of unpunished alcohol violations, Notre Dame administrators mostly kept a vigilant eye on students when they were on campus. Students were expected to be in bed at 11 p.m. 
"Ifyou weren't in the dormitory fat curfew], you were gone. You were grass -outofthe University. " 
Fritz Holegrefe 
Class of 1964 
on weeknights -no excep­tions. 
"Lights went out at 11," Rohrer said. "The electrici­ty went out at 11." 

Rectors came around to the rooms to make sure that everyone was in bed and, if a bed were empty, that student would be reported to the Prefect of Discipline." 
When he lived in Howard Hall as a freshman, 

covered the alteration made to the Rohrer's rector used to brag that he machine, he did not investigate who had thrown a famous football player was responsible for the keg. He sup-out for missing bed check. Community 

page 2 The Observer . INTERHALL FOOTBALL 2000 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL CHAMPIONSHIP 

Athletic Grubb excels on gridiron, soccer field 
By LAUREN CONTl Spurts Writer 
When the Whirlwinds of 
Wnlsh Family llall hit tho sta­
dium turf on Sunday to face 
off against thn Iloward Dur.ks 
thoy will lw boasting not only 
the v1it11ran mnml.wrs of last 
y1\ar's championship squad. 
bul also tho slar addition ol' 
l'ornwr Irish soccer player Jen 
Crubb. 
A fifLh-ynar senior, (;rubb play1\d central del'Pnder for the Fi~hling lrbh varsity sor.­cnr squad from 1996 to '91). Although shn exaustod her soccer eligibility, she slill had one Sf\mester left Lo earn he <lngrec. Sho had taken the scc­
ond semester of her junior ynar off to train with the Women's World Cup team. 
Then. this fall, she wturned lo Notre Dame for an extra senrnstnr to gracluat.,. 
"I just wanted to complete my degree," said Grubb. "Thu training was a great 011portu­nity, hut I wanted to finish what I'd start!~d." 
Grubb turned to women's 
interhall football to fill the 
athletic void left by soccer. 
"I think ev11ryone was excit­11d to have her," said Alison Tullis, co-captain of the Whirlwinds. "She's obviously been.~ great addition to the team. unique role that granted her already-strong Welsh squad unique situation, and she just win the championship game, a 
'Tm just happy to be out invaluable experience in the has heavy implications for works as hard as anyone else game about which she main­here bp,ing competitive, doing sport and helped prepare her rival teams, as illustrated by does." tains her positive attitude. something athletic," said for the interhall experience. the Whirlwinds' undefeated "I would say she brings a lot "1 think we're all excited," Grubb. "1 had always watched foot­record so far this season. of intensity to the team," said she said. "Anytime you're in a 
The der.ision to play football ball growing up, and of course Welsh co-captain Maria Tullis. "And obviously a lot of championship game its going wasn't just a random choice, I was familiar with it because Feilmeyer said, "I think having athleticism." to get your adrenaline going. however. While attending J.B. of being kicker," said Grubb. Jen just added to the talent we Grubb couldn't have asked You're ready to play; it's what Conant High School in subur­"Between soccer and that already have on the team. for a more successful season. you've been working for all ban Chicago, Grubb played experience, I'm used to the She's a really great team play­The running back has been a season long. I feel like all the place-kicker for her high way a practice is run." er, she doesn't try to draw part of an undefeated team effort for the past couple of school men's football team, a The addition of Grubb to the attention to herself despite her that is now heavily favored to months is going to pay off." 

Veselik looks to lead underdog Howard past Welsh 
The Whirlwinds know full offense possession of the ball. Welsh Family Hall Whirlwinds Howard DucksBy SUSIE CARPENTER well about the power of the "The more opportunities we 
Sports Writer 
underdog. Last year, they give them [the Whirlwind 
s:ijl[~rJo,:ye~lik Q8/L8 Jr.~ defeated heavily favored PE in offense}. there will be more Katie Rak QB Sr. Katie Cawley RB So. The ultimate prize of interhall the finals after losing to the opportunities to win," said 
---1:-~r"·~~rca"'~•·····.-vMture~~·otiyje'• W""'"iRf~¾Irso:······•·
football is winning the champi­
Pyros in the regular season. Perossa. Welsh looks to the ...-.. ..~ ···"~-"... .,c,, ...... JL.............. A.~..... ........ ... ·······••... • .........•.. ········· . onship in Notre Dame Stadium. With this in mind, co-captain experience of its veteran play­Jennifer Grubb RB Sr. Jenna Spanbauer LT Jr.hmrtenn teams began the sea­Alison Tullis said, "We are ers to calm any nerves and to 
son. This number narrowed to 
1•1•~••1~ili~~1~~~~·~~oefi"r7eleaij·····....,,;~
practicing hard and trying to be bring it the championship.
eight for first round playoff very prepared both mentally The Whirlwinds' win last year Bethany Barker RB So. Beth Leliaert LT Sr. action, then to four in the semi­and physically." has been a motivational force to finals. Welsh looks strong both on back again this year. "This Welsh Family and Howard offense and defense. game is what we worked for as Kris Kingsbury LG/C So. Vanessa Nero SE Sr. are the two teams left standing, "A major strength for us is a team," said Welsh coach Mike 
'"Hos~y"·"·"'"'"". FL

both with the desire to win the that our team is well-rounded," Valle. "We are excited to give it 
So. 
championship on Sunday after­
said r.o-captain Maria one last effort and hopefully Erin MacKenzie CB So. Katie Nokes FL Fr. 
noon. As the returning champs, Feilmeyer, "There are many we'll come out on top." 
Welsh Family has been domi­111111111._:;1!,~:rw ~t Cl&11m1ct ·· 
excellent athletes on our team The Ducks are looking to nating women's interhall all on both sides of the ball." avenge their loss with the upset. Colleen O'Connor LB So. Erin Shea LE So. soason long. fl enternd the play­teading the offense is quar­"Last meeting left everyone a 


offs with an undefeated record 
terback Katie Rak. Rak has liltle disappointed," said and have not let up on irs inten­been a key factor to the Howard co-captain and quar­Courtney Selph LB So. Jen Guinan LOLB Fr. 
sity on its drive to the finals 
Whirlwind season. She has con­terback Jill Veselik. In addition with wins over Lyons and then sistently found the open receiv­to her ability to scramble, 
'2tt<lei,:i FS Sr. Walsh last week. er in the Md zone for big plays, Veselik has been frustrating the Megan Markey WR Fr. Emily Borg DB Sr.
!loward squeaked into the and has tallied up the points opposition with her passing
playoffs with a 3-3 record, but t::: ":::I:::' ::,.·· •.•. i:.,••·~t'?wf'l'' ..,,.•~r:.,.WM"iche1ie'Merio Ds '"'"s·6~·
each game 1.o eliminate any game, thanks to receivers 
the Ducks performance in the 
chance of a comeback from Vanessa Nero and Eliza.beth Mary Murphy C Fr. Christina Fujii DB Fr. 
post-season has proven them their oppunent. Klimeck. capable or beating any team, no Catching these touchdowns "I have confidence that our lll-tllSri1,1:slf(C: ::~,;;,t~''t~atharine Karrat DB So. matter the ranking. are the talented Welsh offense can create plays," said Lucy Patranefla RG Fr. Porscha Radcliffe DB Fr.Welsh and Howard faced receivers, including Vanessa Howard coach Paul Guzzetta,
,iach other in the rngular sea­Llchon and Jen Grubb. "Our receivers are very aggres­•ti6t Ii~~. <PE1Ca ·.· ~t Andrea Blyth DB Fr. son, with the.Whirlwinds com­The defensive attack will be sive and talented in getting that Katie Sprintz LG/RB Fr. 
ing out with the victory 28-0. led by Maria Feilmeyer and football from Jill and makingDespiln the lopsided score, Tullis. In its game against plays."Wdsh is not underestimating Lyons. Welsh's defense snagged Similar to Welsh, Howard's Campus. "Offense wins games, and she hopes the team rides 
lloward. multiple interceptions, keeping defense has been effective at defense wins championships," their momentum to the upset. "IL';; different to beat the 
the Whirlwinds in the game shutting down the opposition. said Guzzetta. "We arc going to look to stay same team twice," said Welsh af'tnr a slow offensive start. The The Ducks' defense forced piv­Howard co-captain Jeanne focused on this game and as coach Ben Pcrossa. "It's not a defonse looks to bold Howard, otal turnovers that set up their Trelease is proud to be a mem­long as we play like we have mistake that th1iy are in the forcing them to go three and offense for touchdowns in last ber of' the first Howard Hall been, I think we have a greatchampionship." out. in order to give their week's game against Orf-team to make it to the finals chance at winning," she said. 


--· ------------­
Friday, November 10, 2000 The Observer . INTERHALL FOOTBALL 2000 page 3 
MEN'S INTERHALL CHAMPIONSHIP 
Dynasties collide as powerful Juggs take on Knights 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 
When Keenan and Knott mep,t in Sunday's interhall football final at Notre Dame Stadium, it will be the first time the two powerhouse teams have ever played each other. And players from both teams feel it's about time. 
"The two best teams from the two divisions fmally gei to play each other," Keenan junior Brian Kunitzer said. 
"We're glad we get to come out and play a solid team," Knott junior Pal Virtue said. 
Despite the impressive records of Knott and Keenan over the past three years -the two teams have only lost a com­bined seven games -both teams are approaching Sunday's game with a tremen­dous amount of respect for their opponent. 
While Knott brings a 13-game winning streak into Sunday's final. it knows Keenan has a history of playing well in the Stadium. 
"Keenan is really a force," said Knott junior Brian Pawloski. "When I first came here, the team in the final ­always seemed to be Keenan." 

"We're happy we get to play 
LIZ LANGnl1e Observer 

Keenan in the finals," Virtue 
Knott wide receiver/defensive back Jonathan Smith celebrates after a key play earlier this season. Smith has been a key
said. "They're the most recent 
member of a dominant Knott secondary that has not allowed a touchdown all season. 
team to win back-to-back titles. I think it says a lot about us if had to struggle hard in every ing. This team has talent, but it and relies heavily on a defense dynasty of the past with the we can beat them." game, especially in the playoffs. relies on determination." that hasn't given up a point all powerhouse of the present. The 
Since 1997, the Knights have In their quarterfinal game "I think the thing that's gotten season. gritty Knights want to show the compiled an astonishing 22-2-1 against Alumni, Keenan's Kevin us through the two overtime "There's something to be said upstarts that they still have the record and captured the 1997 Fallon blocked a field goal games so far has been our will about a team that hasn't been talent and determination that and 1998 interhall football attempt in overtime to send the to win -it's the strongest in scored upon," has characterized their inter­titles. The only blemish on Knights to the semifinals. my four years here," he said. Keenan senior JJ Frigge said. hall teams of the past. Keenan's record was a loss last There, Keenan battled their However, when Keenan fal­"They're the defending champs, But Knott is out to prove that season to Sorin in the first way through double-overtime tered last season in first round and they're going to be tough." they are the new dynasty in round of last year's playoffs, as the Knights knocked off of the playoff, Knott jumped "We get a chance at Knott, interhall football. but that doesn't take away from Dillon and advanced to the into the spotlight. The Juggs and we're thrilled," Giorgio "I remember seeing Keenan Keenan's impressive history. final. battled their way through the said. -..We have a lot of respect players walking around with 
"We're proud of our past, and "This team is pretty different playoffs to claim last year's for what they've accomplished back-to-back patches on their that's something we want to from the team that's been to the championship and ever since the last few years, and they're varsity jackets and thinking, build on," Keenan senior Herb Stadium before," said Giorgio. then, they haven't looked back. going to force us to go out there 'wow, that would be cool if we Giorgio said. "The first two teams I played Knott carries a 13-game win­and raise our level of play." could do that'," Virtue said. 
But this season, Keenan has on, talent wise, were outstand-ning streak into Sunday's final Sunday's game pits the "Now, here we are." 
Gritty Keenan looks to break through Knott defense 
Herb Giorgio. "I think our "Keenan doesn't throw the ball

By CHRIS FEDERICO Knott Juggernauts Keenan Knights
offense will have a good chance that much," he states, "So that 
Sports Writer 
against them, though. We will ought to limit what we can do. It 
-· 1,¦111
need our offensive line to neu­will probably come down to our 4 Brian Pawloski WR Jr. 12 J.J. Frigge TE Sr.
The last three interhall football tralize their big defensive front defensive line against their run­championships have been won and allow our running game to ning game, but I know those by either the Knott Hall Juggs or get started early." guys will step up when the game 7 Looe Baker TE So. 4 Herb Giorgio DE Sr.
the Keenan Knights, so it could Keenan will look to sophomore is on them." seem no more appropriate that quarterback Billy Ellsworth to While Knott is dominant on these dorms should meet each lead them to the title. He realizes defense, their offense has been a 9 Terry McElroy DB So. 27 Craig Murray FB/LB Sr. other Sunday the task question mark all year. "We'd afternoon at 12:30 that lies like to open it up a little and help p.m. in Notre "l think it ought to be a before him out our defense," said Knott cap­12 Brandon LandasDB Sr. 77 Ryan Crochet OUDL Fr. Dame Stadium for in facing tain/wide receiver Brian


very good game. Knott's
the 2000 lnterhall 
Knott's Pawloski. Foot.ball title. secondary is one ofthe t o u g h "We can't leave it up to the 16 Kevin Heffernan K So. 59 Kevin Fallon OUDL So. Since they com­defense defense to win it for us every ­
best in the league. " 
pete in different that has time. Keenan is going to play
leagues during the already tough. They have just won two 20 Pat Virtue RB Jr. 45 Tom Walsh DL Fr. regular season, Billy Ellsworth stymied tight games in which they hung Knott and Keenan the potent in there until the end to get the 
have not faced Keenan quarterback 25 Jonathan SmithWR/DB So. 51 Eric Gobel OL So.
offenses of win." each other at all in Sorin and Knott captain/tailback Pat recent years. Anticipating this Zahm in these playoffs. Virtue, who was injured in their important first meeting, both "I think it ought to be a very last game against Sorin, should squads are anxious to play. good game," he states. "Kn.ott's be healthy for Sunday's game. 
Keenan enters the game com­secondary is one of the best in Keenan will look to grind it out ing olI consecutive overtime wins the league. but we have pre­on the ground, and the Juggsagainst Alumni and Dillon. They pared well all week long for will put it on their big defense to 
may have ilicir hands full again, them. If we execute our· game stop them. facing a Jugg defense that has plan and establish the run, we In a style appropriate to Notre not allowed a point all season. should be right there." Dame Stadium, lhis game ought
"You have to respect a team One of the anchors of that to be one won in the trenches, that's as strong on defense as Knott secondary is freshman going strength against strengthKnott," said Keenan captain cornerback Brian Schmutzler. and grit against grit. 






I N D 
Friday, November 10, 2000 page 17 
Notre Dame ••• .. 
istration of on-campus debauchery has changed through the years 

night. It was ridiculous." and for a small fee, you got all the 
Beginning in the mid-to late 60s, beer you could drink. however, the rules and regulations In.side the Armory, there would be that held students in check several beer trucks dispens­began to crumble. While it ing 16 oz. cups of beer. was once required that Students could drink students wear a jack-all they wanted. The et and tie to dinner, trucks would when almost always leave the every student Armory empty. 
.....
student showed "Needless to 
up for dinner say, it was a 
one night bacchanal of 
wearing nothing but a jacket and tie. that rule w a s dropped. 
B e d 
checks, morning checks and travel restric­tions fell by the wayside as well. 
T h e Vietman 
huge pro­portions. The trucks would be drunk dry almost as a matter 

of per­v e r s e pride," Peloquin .,,. said. 
0 n ­campus parties were also wild and c r a z y affairs. The 

-
protests that architecture filled campus­students es across the would put on a country did not Beaux Arts Ball bypass Notre every year in the Dame. In 1969, 10 old architecture students were building. Peloquin expelled for protesting said he preferred the on-campus recruiting by archie party even though Dow Chemical and the Central the Ball featured less alcohol Intelligence Agency. The 10 students than the Armory parties. The Ball was expelled were the leaders of a group always well decorated and humorous, of students who blocked access to the he said. interview rooms by jamming the While the early 70s were wild and Ma.in Building and refusing to leave. crazy times, Peloquin admits some of 
The social unrest caused on cam­the student parties weren't the safest pus by these and other protests left things in the world. administrators more concerned with "In retrospect, many of the situations preserving general order on campus I enjoyed were unlawful. abusive and and less interested in regulating dangerous -I would not want my son every aspect of student life. to do these things," he said. 
When John Peloquin arrived as a Over time, the social protests died freshman in 1971, he was a member down and the administration regained of the last all-male class admitted to some control over the social activities Notre Dame. But Notre Dame was a of the students. Today, the parties changed institution. aren't as wild as they were in the 70s, 
"I get the impression that things but the rules aren't as restrictive as were much they were in the rougher and 50s or 60s. 
-
woolier and Today's campus is
"In retrospect, many ofthe 
there was cer, a bit too secular
situations I enjoyed were
tainly more for Rohrer's tastesservice, probation or counseling were he attended Notre Dame, he said mass 
'inappropriate unlawful, abusive and and the new rules
hardly ever the punishment for break­attendance was better and the stu­
behavior' in my are a little more
ing curfew. There was only one conse­dents kept more to the traditions of dangerous -I would not want 
day." Peloquin than Peloquin
quence for staying out late and it was the Catholic church. my son to do these things." 
said. would prefer.
not negotiable. "Confessionals in Sacred Heart were 
In 1972, But for all the
"If you weren't in the dormitory, you lined along the wall, and on Sunday women were first John Peloquin complaints that were gone," Holegrefe said. "You were morning, the lines would be a mile 
admitted and Notre Dame stu­
grass -out of the University. First long, with everyone going to confes­Class of 1975
although there dents register
offense. you were toast for one semes­sion," he said. Apparently there were were parietals, "I while on campuster: second offense you were out for still plenty of sins for Notre Dame stu­
don't remember as undergrads,
life." dents to commit before curfew. 
anyone getting the boot for violating most look back at their days under the
The administration kept a careful The strict rules and curfews kept 
them," Peloquin said. "I also don't Dome fondly. 
watch over students in the mornings everyone in line and preserved the 
remember what they were -as you "You were frustrated sometimes. and as well. Three days a week, all stu­learning environment, according to might guess, I didn't pay them much let's be honest, there is no worse place
dents had to report to the dorm chapel Rohrer. ­
attention." in the world to be than Indiana whenat 7 a.m. fully dressed for morning "There were no pranks," he said. 
Peloquin and the rest of the students it's 20 below, snowing and that wind is check. As part of Rohrer's athletic "Everyone was there to study." 
at Notre Dame in the early 70s were blowing like mad. You would love toscholarship, it was his job to check off While the restrictions may have fos­
more interested in one thing: beer. be somewhere warm. but come on.
the names of everyone in his dorm. tered a better academic environment, The more beer the better. why would you want to be anywhere
"Mass wasn't mandatory. but they Holegrefe said the restrictions were 
Once a year, a group of students else?" Holegrefe said. "Notre Dame isencouraged you to go three times a overbearing and insulting. 
would rent out the South Bend Armory Notre Dame. There is nothing like it in week by being down there fully "In a lot of respects it was demean­and thr~w a massive drinking party. the world. It's not Harvard. It's notdressed," he said. ing. It was horrible back then," he Buses would run from campus to the Yale. It's Notre Dame people and thereRohrer said Notre Dame has become said. "You're 22 years old and you Armory to safely transport students, is nothing like it in the world."
a much more secular University. When have to be in by 12:30 on a Saturday 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November I 0, 2000 
NBA 

Mercer's 23 points leads Chicago past Orlando 
Associated Pr,ss 

.. 
CHICAGO 
Playing their most spirited ganrn of the season, thfi Chicago Bulls defeated Tracy McGrudy -one of the free agents who spurned them ­and thn Orlando Magic 95-90 Thursday night for their first win of the season. 
McGrady scorr.d 21, only one below his average, but was just 'J-of-19 from the line. Ho had two turnovers to go with his six rebounds and six assists. Bulls fans booed him every time he got the ball. 
Chicago wined and dined McGrady during free agency this summer, taking him to Wrigley Field and introducing him to Sammy Sosa. But he signed with Orlando instead, and fans haven't forgiven him yet. 

There was a loud chorus of boos as McGrady hit a 3-point­er with 11 seconds left to cut Chicago's lead to 93-90, but Ron Artest hit a pair of free throws and the Magic couldn't get any closer. 
Hon Mercer, the Hulls' big pickup after McGrady, Grant llill and Eddie Jones all dis­missed them, had his best game in a Chicago uniform. lie recorded season-highs with 23 points and 10 rebounds, and also had a steal and two blocked shots. 
Michael Huffin grabbed a career-high 18 rebounds and added 10 points. A.J. Guyton had 18, and Marcus Fizer added 14.
-
Michael Doleac and Pat Garrity added a spark off the bench, scoring 15 and 14 points, respectively. Darrell Armstrong had 13. 

The Magic looked as if they were still worn out from Wednesday's loss to the Charlotte Hornets. The Bulls, meanwhile. showed the energy and enthusiasm they've lacked lately. 
They hustled for the ball, pushed it upcourt and smoth­ered McGrady, making him work hard for every shot. He missed his first five shots of' the night and finished the first quarter just 1-of-6. His team­mates weren't much better, as the Magic made just four bas­kets in the first 10 minutes oJ' the first quarter. 
Mercer's one-handed layup started a 17-4 run that gave Chicago a 19-point lead with 
6:37 left in the third. But Chicago went cold. and Garrity and Armstrong got the Magic back in the game. 
Garrity's 18-foot jumper started a 12-3 run that cut the Bulls lead to 68-56 with 3:56 !ell. and Armstrong's layup cul it to 70-62 with 1:05 left. Orlando got within 74-66 with 
9:59 left on baskets from Garrity and Armstrong, but Guyton stopped the spurt with a 3-pointer. 
The Bulls opened up an 81-72 lead with 6:44 left on Marcus Fizer's hook shot, but the Bulls went almost three minutces without a field goal. McGrady converted on a three-point play, Monty Williams hit a layup, and Doleac drilled a 17 ­foot jumper to bring the Magic within 82-79 with 4:23 left. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r-m, at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

VICTORY TKTS  BUY/SELL ND TICKETS  ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE  1993 Ford Explorer  EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP­ 
LOST & FOUND  BUY'SELL'TRADE ND FOOTBALL  273-3911  AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/  (2 door) Manual 4-wheel drive  MENT CENTER PAID &VOLUNTEER OPPORTU­ 
232-0964  email:mmmrentals@aol.com  66,000 miles  NITIES  
Lost: at LaFortune A men's fossil watch with a stain- www.victorytickets.com  FOR RENT  232-2595  call: 784-8303 or 219-232-5557  Earn money and build resume experience while interacting with  
less steel  BUY/SELL ND TICKETS  HOUSE FOR LEASE 7/01  delightful young children. The Early  
273-3911  HOUSE FOR LEASE 7/01  4/5 bedrm.  Beautiful brass bed, queen size,  Childhood Development Centers at  
lace and a brown leather band. The  4/5 bedrm. 3 blocks to campus.  3 blocks to campus.  with orthopedic mattress set and  Saint Mary's College and the  
face is decorated with fossil pie- PAYING $50 EACH  773-486-8822  773-486-8822  deluxe frame All new, never used,  University ot Notre Dame, are cur- 
lures. REWARD Please call Kylie  FOR ND VS. BOSTON  still in plastic.  rently accepting applications from  
at 634-4655.  COLLEGE TICKETS.  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT  That Pretty Place,  $235 219-862-2082  college students for part time  
219 289-8048.  SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND.  Bed and Breakfast Inn  employment positions beginning  
Lost: at LaFortune  GREAT AREA 277-3097  has space available for  High-Speed Copies, Color Copies,  immediately and for next semester.  
A men's fossil watch with a stain- NEED TWO BOSTON COLLEGE  football/parent wknds.  Binding, Fax Service, R ;;sum ;;s,  The hours vary, including MWF  
less steel lace and a brown leather  GA'S. PLEASE CALL  3,4 & 6 BDRM HOMES. FURN.  5 Rooms with private baths,  Business Cards, Laminating &  12:30 p.m. -1 30 p.m. and MWF  
band. The face is decorated with  MANYARD AT 1-800-638-6963, X  NOW & 2001-02. 272-6306.  $80-$115, Middlebury,  Morel At THE COPY SHOP  9:30 a.m. ­11 :30 a.m II you are  
fossil pictures. REWARD. Please  6093. CALL WILL BE RETURNED  30 miles from campus.  LaFortune Student Center Phone  interested in applying, please con- 
call K)!'.lie at 634-4655.  ASAP.  HOUSES FOR RENT  Toll Road, Exit #107,  631-COPY Free Pick-Up/ Delivery!  tact Kari Alford, Program Director at  
- TICKETS  2 ND/USC TIX+ AIRFARE! GOTO aiumni.nd.edu/-ndc_satx  2001-2002 10 BEDROOMS­4BATHS  1-800-418-9487 #1 Spring Break 2001 NCancun,  COLLEGE SCHOLARSHIPS 300,000 + private sector scholar- ECDC-SMC, at 284-4693 or Thayer Kramer, Program Director at ECDC-ND, for more information  
3KITCHENS  Mazatlan. Acapulco, Jamaica,  ships available for undergraduate  and an application.  
NEEDED: ONE TICKET  I need four tickets, family coming  Florida &S.Padre. Reliable TWA  and graduate students at accredit- 
CALL AGNES  from Central America  SBEDROOMS  flights. Best Prices. Earn $$$ or  ed colleges in the USA regardless  
AT 634-2369  Please call Ernesto at 274-0829  2BATHS  FREE trips-call for details!  of their GPA, finances, age or citi- PERSONAL  
GREAT FRONT PORCH  1.800.SURFS.UP www.studentex­ zenship. Write or call for FREE  
WANTED  A family desperately needs Boston  press.com  information and application  
ND FOOTBALL TKTS  College tickets  BOTH HOUSES HAVE WASHERS,  Scholarship Database Service  Who's your daddy  
289-9280  Will pay top dollar$$$  DRYERS AND ALARM SYSTEMS  Spring Break 2001 Book group of  P.O. Box 432 Notre Dame, Ind.  I'm your daddy now  
@277-1659 thanks.  15 and GO FREE!  46556-0432 1-800-936-3706  
- SELLING  CALL KRAMER  Book before Nov. 3 for FREE  Barnyard896@hotmail.com  Props to Mimi for getting the song  
ND FOOTBALL TKTS  NO FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE  234-2436  Mealsl Visit us at  
251-1570  A.M. ­232-2378  OR CELL 274-150,.  sunsplashtours.com  Beautiful brass bed, queen size,  Congratulations to No-Jo tor win- 
P M. -288-2726  or call !or free info  with orthopedic mattress set and  ning the contest  
VICTORY TKTS  @ 1-800-426-7710  deluxe frame. All new, never used,  
BUY'SELL 'TRADE ND FOOTBALL  PAYING $50 EACH FOR ND VS. BOSTON COLLEGE TICKETS. 219  WANTED  Spring Break 2001 Book group of  still in plastic. $235 219-862-2082  Congratulations to Thornberf for getting rid of his headache  
232-0964  289-8048.  15 and GO FREE! Book before  WANT AVON?  
www.v1ctorytickets.com  #1 Spring Break 2001 NCancun,  Nov. 3 for FREE Meals! Visit us at  Call 237-1919  2 weeks in a row -go Adami  
A FAMILY DESPERATELY NEEDS  Mazatlan, Acapulco. Jamaica.  sunsplashtours.com or call tor free  
NEEDED ONE TICKET  BOSTON TICKETS  Florida & S.Padre. Reliable TWA  into@ 1-800-426-7710  1988 Toyota Camry  Juggs 47, Sorin 46 ­give it up for  
CALL AGNES  WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR$$$  flights. Best Prices. Earn $$$ or  5 spd  Zo with the game winning trey  
AT 634-2369  @ 277-1659 THANKSE  FREE trips-call tor details'  PHONE CARDS  $1,500  
1.800.SURFS UP WWW studentex­ $20  634-4665  -Blowing a huge lead -19 pts.  
WANTED  NEED TWO BOSTON COLLEGE  press com  1558 MIN.  -Paying the officials lo help us out ­ 
ND FOOTBALL TKTS  G A"S. PLEASE CALL MANY ARD  CALL 284-5145  20 bucks  
289-9280  AT 1-800-638-6963, )( 6093. CALL  FAX IT FASTII!  or258-4805  FOR SALE  -Seeing Timmy heave up a full- 
WILL BE RETURNED ASAP.  Sending &Receiving  court bucket -priceless  
SELLING ND FOOTBALL TKTS  at  '95 Honda Civic EX,  YOUTH DIRECTOR needed  
251-1570  2 ND/USC TIX + AIRFARE!  THE COPY SHOP  red, moonroof,  Al First United Methodist  Tommy -I think you're off to Cuba  
GOTO alumni.nd.edu/-ndc_salx  Lafortune Student Center  5 spd. 52k mi.,  Church in S. Bend. 8-12 hrs./wk.  
Need 5 BC llxl Will pay good $$  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAXl  $8950,  $100/wk. Call 233-9463.  New CS version outl Now if we  
Call 274-0829  I NEED BC TIX. 272-6306.  FAX IT FAST!!!  call 1-6953  Ask tor Dan or Jen.  could only download iL  



Friday, November l 0, 2000 The Obmwer . SPORTS page 19 
hats, polo shirts, jackets, novelties and much moret 
Where...? 
Located at: LOGAN CENTER
i 

1235 N. Eddy, South Bend IN 
Right across from Notre Dame 

I 

Stadium entrance on the comer of Eddy &Angela 
When...
? 
ND vs Boston College 

Who...? 
Guest Signings Have your photo taken with John Lattner, Chris Zorich,Tony Rice or DerekBrown. Plus they will sign your photo and Notre Dame erchandise. 
Lo an 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Kansas sneaks past UCLA 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Hoy Williams' 13th season as coach at Kansas got off to a good start, then came yet another question about what he did last sum­mer. 
The Jayhawks' Drew Gooden beats Matt Barnes to a rebound. one of lO Gooden got in the win. No sooner had the Jayhawks (No. 6 USA Today/ESPN, No. 7 AP) beaten the UCLA Bruins 
Today/ESPN. No. 17 AP) 99-98 in the opener of the Coaclrns vs. Cancer Classic on Thursday night than Williams faced another question about his decision to stay at Kansas rather than move to North Carolina, his alma mater where he worked for 10 seasons as an assistant to Dean Smith. 
"This summer got too emotional," said Williams, who 
announced his decision to remain at Kansas in front of media and fans at the footbali stadium. "It was my dream to coach at North Carolina but now it's over with. The kids arc the reason I stayed." 
Most of those kids came up big on the offensive end early as the Jayhawks led by as many as 16 points in the first half. 
Kenny Gregory scored 24 points and Kirk Hinrich added 21 for Kansas, which shot 65 percent from the field in the first half but had to hold off the Bruins down the stretch with offen­sive rebounding and free-throw shooting. 
"We were fortunate to win this one -our defense was not good," Williams said. 
The Jayhawks will meet St. john's in the championship game 
Friday night at 
Madison Square Garden. 
St. John's beat No. 12 


Wednesday, November 8 Friday -Saturday, November 10 -11 at 8 pm 
Sunday, November 12, 2000 at2:30pm 
Little Theatre 

,,;_, M•'f•• C•fl•J•0
,M8-ft£ll?, 
~IIOTREIIAIIE, IN 
For ticket informaJion contact the Saint Mary's Box Office at 
284-4626 
Kentucky 62-61, Gregory, Kansas' lead­ing returning scorer at 
12.8 points per game, had 15 as the Jayhawks built a 57-51 halftime lead. While Gregory's scoring was expected, that wasn't the case with sophomore point guard Kirk Hinrich. 
Hinrich, who averaged 

5.5 points last season with a high game of 12, had 13 points in the first ­half during which Kansas built a 24-8 lead over the opening seven minutes. 
"We knew how good a 3-point shooting team they are so we knew it wasn't over," Hinrich said. "I'm surprised we didn't have a better defensive game." 
UCLA, which missed eight of its first 10 shots from the field, started chipping away behind the 3-point shooting of sophomore Jason Kapono, the Bruins' leading returning scorer at 16.0 

-

Friday, November I0, 2000
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Selig finds problems -in team disparity 

. Commissioner addresses financial issues of baseball 
Associucd Press 
AMELIA ISLAND, Fla. 
The way this offseason is shaping up, baseball's dis­parity problem doesn't figure to lilSS(lll. 
The sport's biggest spenders are the leading contPnders for the biggest prizes on the free agent mar­k o t. which 
would only 

"For me to stand here 
Pittsburgh
increase the 

today and say there are ($31.9 mil­
gap between 

.... lion).
the haves and no internal problems 
"For me to
the have­

would be an absurdity." stand here
nots. 

today and
"We have 

say there
some internal Bud Selig 

are no inter­
problems that MLB commissioner 
have to be 
fixed.ff com­
missioner Bud Selig said 
Thursday. "This industry has 
not done a good job address­
ing its problems the last four 
docades and solving them. 
That is going to stop. We will

... 
address and solve our prob­lems in one form or anoth­
er." 
Selig met with the general managers at their annual meeting and much of the talk centered on an increase in salaries and the growing chasm between the highest­and lowest-spending teams. 
The average salary increased 13.8 percent this 

year to $1,789,556, accord­ing to the commissioner's office, up from $1,572,329 last year. 
The Yankees had baseball's highest payroll at $113.4 million, not including bonus­es, followed by Atlanta ($95 million). Los Angeles ($94.2 million), Boston ($93.9 mil­lion) and the New York Mets ($89.7 million). 
The five lowest payrolls were Minnesota ($15.8 mil­lion), Kansas City ($24.5 mil­lion), Florida ($25.9 million). Montreal (28 million) and 
nal problems 
would be an absurdity," Selig said."! believe we can solve these problems and increase the popularity of the game to levels we can't even compre­hend today." 
Selig will release a plan to tackle the issue in the "very near future." I-le said base­ball's renaissance the last few years could be threat­ened if more teams are left behind. 
Since the 1994-95 strike, no team has advanced to the league championship series without a payroll in the top half. 
Research Scientist/Project Leader Research Associates Phlebotomist 
GOS Technology, located in the Michiana area, is an ISO 9001, technology based 
company, focused on bioprocessing and point-of-care diagnostic testing systems. We 
have recently undergone significant changes throughout our organization, in ownership 
and management. We have immediate needs for individuals with a scientific 
background for the following positions: 
Phlebotomist -Mornings, part-time, Monday through Friday, 7:00AM -8:00AM. Must be experienced, reliable. 
Research Associates -assist Senior Scientists in the planning and execution of various experiments and studies aimed at developing new diagnostic blood tests, as well as supporting current products. Responsible for data collection, recording, and analysis. Experience working in an industrial or academic research laboratory, or in the development of assays or analytical methods is a plus. Must have basic know/edge of statistics. Microsoft Word and Excel, and be able to conduct data analysis using a spreadsheet. Candidates should have a BA or BS in chemical or life sciences with profi­ciency in basic laboratory skills. Consideration will be given to students completing these requirements in the near future. 
Research Scientist/Project Leader -provide technical leadership development of diagnostic blood tests and in support of current products. Responsible for projects from concept to market launch. A Ph.D. or MS in chemical or life science with 1-2 years academic or industrial experience in assay or analytical method development is required, prior experience in the development of diagnostic reagents would be a plus. Individuals with a BA or BS degree and a strong track record in product development will also be considered. Must have excellent problem solving, communication, and data management skills, along with knowledge of GMP, ISO 9001, and FDA regulations. 
We offer flexible work schedules, excellent benefits and great opportunities. Interested candidates mail or fax resumes in the strictest confidence to: 
GDS Technology Attn: Research & Development 25235 Leer Drive Elkhart, IN 46514 Fax (219) 262-0109 
-
-
The Notre Dame Athletic Department Salutes its 2000-01 Student-Athlete Advisory Council 


Adam Anderson Marcie Bomhack Claire Bula Andrew Busbe:, Chad Chipchase Men's Golf Volleyball Rowing Baseball Hockey 



Jen Sharron Softball 
CJ Lanktree Cheerkading 

Women's Swimming Men's Lacrosse Men's Tennis Men's Swimming Men's TrACk e!r Field 

Friday, November l 0, 2000 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Baker wins National League Manager of the Year award 
Associated Press 
NEWYORK 

Dusty Haker won the National League :vtanager of the Year award for a record third time Thursday after leading the San Francisco Giants to the best record in the major leagues. 
Baker received 30 of 32 first­place votes, one second and one third for 154 points in voting by the Baseball Writers' Association of America. 
Tony La Russa of the St. Louis Cardinals was second with 59 points, getting one first, 16 sec­onds and six thirds. 
Bobby Cox ofAtlanta was third with 41 points, followed by Hobby Valentine of the New York Mets (16). John Boles of Florida ( l 5). Buddy Bell of Colorado (2) and Felipe A\ou of Montreal (1). 
Haker also won the award in 1993 and 1997. In the American 
Ihe I..:niver"ily ;;'!f Notr~ Dame Dt>p,.utmt:nt ot \h1sic prest•nts 
Notre Dame Chorale & Chamber Orchestra 
Alexander Blachly, director 


jfall (!Concert
\lus,c bv \lonteverdi, Tomkins, Ran'nscroft, Bach & H,wdn 
8:00 pm mtetmesbap, 
.f!obember 15, 2000 jjastlica of tbe ~acreb J!,eart 
Free and open to the public 

For more infC1rmaHon, lease ca.I] (219) 631-6201 or vlsit !ltt :J /www.nd.edu/-con oers 
·,•.· 

Proudly Presents
·wari~ln Golf Shon 
Carl Ware
Start your holiday shopping early 
Executive Vice President, Global Public Affairs and Administration ofCoca-Coltl Corporation 
Traveling the Local Road to 
Globalization: The Ethics of Multinational Business in the 21st Century 
__ <s1~;._-._-_?_::,..·::,.•-,-,:,~\..______.·_·__....
_·_;~-·~~_7·~_____ 
Tuesday, November 14, 2000 Jordan Auditorium,
IItems up to 40% off! 
Mendoza College of Business 
Pro Shop Hours 
7:00 p.m. 
Mon-Fri 9-5 
Mnde po,:sible hy CARGILL 
League, La Hussa is the only three-time recipient, winning with Chicago in 1983, and with Oakland in 1988 and 1992. 
San Francisco went 97-65, fin­ishing 11 games ahead of sec­ond-plarn Arizona, the largest margin among the six division winners. The Giants then lost 3­1 to the Mets in the first round of the playolTs. 
"We're all young, and hopAful­ly this is the start of a long good run for us," Baker said. "It takes a long time to build this sort of team. In my 33 years in baseball, I can name on one han<l the teams I've seen like this." 
After the playoff loss, Haker signed his fourth two-year con­tract with the Giants, a $5.25 million deal that made him one of baseball's highest-paid man­agers. 
"Hopefully, next year wo will take it farther and better," Baker said. "This is something very positive to build on." 
negotiated this spring. Money has become the most
HAPPY 
sensitive issue because Woods told Golf World magazine in its Nov. 10 issue, "In a perfect world, I would be" entitled to a share.
HOLIDAYS 
Steinberg said it was "highly doubtful" that would ever be the case . 
FROM 
allle Golf Shop 
idi • (!I Notre Dame Center :•E¦ for Ethics andReligious
& 
Iii • • Values in Business 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
PGA 
Woods warns he may leave tour 
'-Would they be playing for that much money if Tiger was not the most recognized athlete in the world? That's not for us to say," he said. "There are too many issues involved to single that one out. Money doesn't solve it all. It's what you can do on your own without people trying to limit you from doing that." 
In negotiating the mammoth Nike deal, the sticking point in di<;eussions that lasted over a year was getting back Woods' market­ing rights, specifically with the Internet. 
That appears to be the case again. 
Tour regulations allow the use of player images in tomnament­related advertisements, and Woods has agreed to those condi­tions as a Tour member. 
But conflicts abound. 

While Mercedes runs weekly ads to show who qualified for its winners-only tomnament, Woods has a $30 million deal with Buick. And last week, Woods won a fall bonus program sponsored by PricewaterhouseCoopcrs. Woods has a contract with American Express. 
"Do you think it's fair that they can use his name like that because they're affiliated with the Tour? ls that fair?" Steinberg said. "It's about rights. It's not about money. It's more about equity and fairness." 
This is not the first time Woods has led the charge on a divisive issue. He also refused to back down over intense public scrutiny when he, Duval and Mark O'Meara questioned the $63 mil­lion in revenues the PGA of America made off the Ryder Cup. 
Ultimately, the PGA gave each player $200,000 to di,.,idc among their colleges and favorite chari­ties. 
Nor is this the first time players have argued with the PGA Tour about such issues as advertising rights, releases to play in interna­tional events and media fees for their special tournaments. 
Nick Price said the implied endorsements have been going on as long as he has played the Tour. 
"If he can take on the Tour and beat the Tour, so be it," Price said. "I never felt I was strong enough to win. What Tiger has tried to do, a lot of guys have tried to do. Let's see what happens." 
.... 
.... 
-
... 
Associated Pre.s 
SOTOGRANDE, Spain 
Tiger Woods stood his ground Thursday in his criticism of the PGA Tour, saying his complaint is about getting control of his own marketing rights, not about more TV money. 
He also refused to rule out leaving thP. PGA Tour if the issues aren't set­tled. 
"We're just wanting to get our rights back, and not having these implied endorsements," Woods said. "There's a lot the public doesn't understand and doesn't know about." 
Woods, whose impact on the game has been a driving force in the record level of prize money on the PGA Tour, said he would meet with commissioner Tim Finchem "when we can all sit down," but he did not set a time. 
"It's not about getting a cut of lhe TV revenue," Woods said. "It's about doing what's right by the players. The players and the PGA Tour have been bucking heads on a lot of issues. The pub­lic has no idea, but we do it all the 
tim. " 
e. 
Finchem arrived at Valderrama 
for meetings but was not expect­
ed to be at the golf course until 
Friday. 
Woods, who is trying to become the first player in 50 years to win 10 times in one season, added: 'Tm busy this week." 
When asked if he would ever 
leave the Tour, Woods shrugged 
his shoulders, smiled and 
hummed ominously. 


Ultimately, it could aU lead to a power struggle between Woods and Finchcm, and Woods' impact on the sport gives him a strong hand. 
"He's such a powerful figure in the world of golf, you have to treat him with a bit of respect," said Chubby Chandler, the agent for European stars Lee Westwood and Darren Clarke. 
Along V'.ith being the No. 1 play­er in the world, Woods has become the biggest star in sports. When his five-year, $100 million contract with Niki' kicks in next year, his annual endorsements with 12 companies will be worth about $54 million annually. 
One of his strongest complaints Ls how other companiPs affiliated with the PGA Tour take advan­tage of his image. 
Mark Steinberg, his agent at !MG, cited the season-opening Mercedes Championship in Hawaii, with a field limited to PGA Tour winners. It runs a congratu­latory advertisement V\ith tourna­ment winners everv week. 
"Du they have to· congratulate a guy nine times?" Steinberg said. 
Woods said such "implied endorsements" have occurred after just about every tournament he has ever won. He said he saw a commercial during the Canadian Open that featured him, David Duval and Vijay Singh, even though the latter two did not play that week. 
"I don't know if the Tour says, 'Go ahead and run it,' or if they just run with it," Woods said. "We'd like to get an answer, and we dcseIVe that." 
Woods did not say he deseJVes more of the 1V money he is large­ly responsible for generating. 
Shortly after Woods won The Masters, the Tour signed a four­year TV deal worth about $500 million. Total prize money this vear was more than $160 million, ~early triple the level when Woods turned pro. The nexi con­tract, coming off Woods winning three straight majors, will be 
_________ _J 

page 22 · Friday, November I 0, 2000
The Observer . SPORTS 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Disappointed Gywnn ready for other tea01s 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 
The San Diego Padres made a new contract ofTer to free agent Tony Gwynn for less than half of what he'd gotten if the tnam had picked up his $6 million option lbr 2001. 
'Tm disappointed in the offer. but it looks like that's what the Padrcs feel good about," agent John Boggs said Wednesday night. 
Boggs can start entertaining offers from other teams starting Saturday. Gwynn, a member of the 3,000-hit club and an eight­

.., lime NL batting champion. is a !'rm~ agent for the first time after playing 19 seasons for the Padres. "It wouldn't be reaching many high goals by topping this oiler," Boggs said. Boggs and Padres general man­ager Kevin Towers refused to divulge figures. However, baseball sources speaking on the condition of anonymity said the offer included a guaranteed $1 million salary and anothcr $1.5 million in incen­tives. Boggs would say only that if Gwynn reaches the incentives, he still wouldn't come close to the $6 million he would have gotten had the Pa!,lrcs picked up his option. 
•vrhe perplexing issue is, if Tony is healthy, I would think• they would want to compensate him," Boggs said. 
Gwynn, 40, had surgery on his troublesome left knee June 27 and didn't return. lie had just 127 at-bats in 36 games. The Padres, feeling that Gwynn won't be an everyday player anymore, 

season that they were declining 
the $6 million option. and would 
pay a $2 million buyout instead. 
The Padres made Gwynn an initial oiler of $1 million in base pay, contingent on him passing a medical exam. plus incentives. The day before he filed for free agency, Gwynn was cleared by the Padres' team doctor for all baseball activities. 
''I've just got to do my due dili­gcnce," Gwynn said Wednesday. "They bought me out and made nm a free agent. and f filed. Come Saturday. we can talk to other clubs." 
The two sides disagree on how to credit the $2 million buyout. The Padres say it will be part of any new deal Gwynn might agree to, but Boggs said the sides won't get anywhere if the Padres insist on counting it that way. 
The buyout is due to Gwynn on Jan. 15. 
"We had to look at the $2 mil­lion buyout, whether they do or not," Towers said. "It's money paid in 2001, and then we struc­tured the offer where there are guaranteed dollars with some incentives, which gives us some protection -if he's not able to play. If he does play, he has a chance to earn some pretty good dollars." 
Cleveland and Detroit have expressed interest in Gwynn, and Boggs said other teams have called, although he wouldn't elab­orate.• 
"We're not going into this with no one interested in us," Boggs said. "There are teams out there that absolutely feel Tony can con­tribute, regardless of his playing time last year. If he's cleared medically to go and he can walk to the plate, teams are definitely 
-
-

notilind him a few days after!~ interested in this ballplayer." 

. ~ 'J,
<!\ \ 

Ita.llan/sicilian . ~rattoria Dining !\ ½1 I ·· ~ C: 5S. Michigan St. Fresh prepared Qjnners, ) rSouth Bend, IN 46601 Pizza, Beverages r--""---1(_/ 219-233-1000 
Down~wti'Sopth Bi#~':._Jittij~ltil,i~ Dini,#g
' ,0 k • ·• • • ~· • ' 0 • • 0 • •p •· '' • •••• 0 • • ~ • ••• 

30n3 

Ba~ketball Tournament 
Tuesday 

November 14, 7:00pm at Stepan Center 
Register your team in advance at RecSports Space is Limited Deadline is Monday, November 13 -12:00pm Men's and Women's Divisions Open to All Notre Dame Students, Faculty and Staff Varsity Basketball Players are Ineligible 
Z?~~ 
Please recycle The. Observer. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS i. 201 SECURITY BUILDING 
• Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 T: 631-5882 Fax: 631-5711 

ROME· 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Professor Michael Francis, Assistant Provost Campus Iritemational Development 
Monday November 13, 2000 
4:45 P~I 102 DeBartolo 

Application neadline: December I, 2000 Applications available www/nd.edu/~intlstud 
Now is the Time to Make a Difference! 
Teach in Massachusetts 
. 
$20,000 Signing Bonus 

. 
Job Placement Assistance 

. 
Summer Training and Certification 

. 
Mentoring and Support 


All Majors Welcome! 
(Math, Science, and Foreign Language encouraged) 
Current Seniors Grad Students Mid-Career Professionals 

Information Session 
Monday, November 13 • 6:00pm • Morris Inn, Notre Dame Room A lication Deadline: Januar 31, 2001 
Massachusetts Signing Bonus Program for New Teachers Apply online at: www.doe.mass.edu/tqe For questions call: 781.338.3231 

,------------------------­
Friday, November IO, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
• 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Indians offer star 
Mariners win rights to Suzuki 

Associated Press 
AMELIA ISLAND, Fla. 

The Seattle Mariners agreed to pay more than $13 millign for the right to talk to a player few have seen play. Starting this weck­e n d , teams will bring out the real b g 
money. 
As base­ball's gen­eral man­agers laid t h e groundwork for trades and signings at their annual meet­ings this week. the only major move came Thursday when the Mariners won the bidding rights to Japanese All-Star lchiro Suzuki. 
The winning bid of $13,125,000 would be paid to Suzuki's Japanese team the Orix BlueWavc only if the Mariners sign the outfielder to a contract by 9 p.m. EST on Dec. 9. 
"There's always a risk with any player you sign be it an amateur, a professional free agent or a player from another professional league," Mariners GM Pat Gillick said. "Our peo­ple felt he was worth the risk. That's why we made the bid we did." 
Suzuki, 27, hit . 387 this sea­son to win his seventh straight 


Pacific League batting title. 
Suzuki is a career .353 hitter 
with 118 home runs and 529 
RBIs in nine seasons in Japan. 
Suzuki would be the first 
Japanese position player to 
make it in the majors. 
"He can do everything 
except hit with power," said 
Gillick. who envisions Suzuki 
as a right fielder. "I-le is more 
of a contact, slash type hitter. 
He's a very good defensive 
outfielder with an above aver­
age arm. He has hit for a num­
ber of years in Japan. 'Tm 
confident he can do it in the 
U.S." 

Suzuki is expected to sign _with the Mariners because of 
their large Japanese popula­
tion in Seattle and the pres­
ence of Kazuhiro Sasaki, who 
won the AL Rookie of the Year 
in his first season after leaving 
Japan. 

"He enjoyed his stay in 
Seattle and I think that will 
help quite a bit in negotiations 
with Ichiro," said Gillick, who 
will begin talking with agent 
Tony Attanasio in the next few 
days. 

The money Seattle agreed to 
pay for the rights to Suzuki 
will look like a bargain as soon 
as stars such as Alex 
Rodriguez, Manny Ramirez, 
Mike Hampton and Mike 
Mussina are free to negotiate 
financial terms with any team, 
starting Saturday. 
"There is nothing magical 
about Saturday," said Mets GM Steve Phillips, who is involved with all four top free agents. "It's a process not an event." 
The Toronto Rlue Jays start­ed the offseason spending spree last month when they signed Carlos Delgado to a $68 million, four-year con tract deal. 
Last week, Ramirez asked Cleveland for a $200 million, 10-year contract an amount the Indians are unwilling to pay. 
They countered Thursday with a seven-year offer worth more than $119 million, according to a baseball man­agement source speaking on the condition he not be identi­fied. 
"At some point over the weekend, we'll either continue the discussions or put them to bed and move forward," Hart said. 
Most of the teams that are talking seriously with the big free agents are among base­ball's biggest spenders. 
The New York Yankees are believed to be the favorite for Ramirez. The Mets are the leading contender for Rodriguez. Cleveland and Boston are battling it out over Mussina. and Atlanta is target­ing Hampton. · 
All those teams were in the top six in spending last season, demonstrating the growing disparity between the high­and low-revenue teams, according to commissioner. 
outfielder $I l 9M 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND 
Unwilling to meet Manny Ramirez's demand for $200 million over 10 years, the Cleveland Indians offered the free agent outfielder a seven­year contract worth more than $119 million. 
The Indians faxed 
Ramirez's agent, Jeff 
Moorad, a counterproposal 
on Thursday averaging about 
$17 million, according to a 
baseball management source 
speaking on the condition he 
not be identified. 
The source said the Indians 
counteroffer was for seven 
years and that the per-year 
value was slightly more than 
the $17 million per season 
average the Toronto Blue 
Jays will pay first baseman 
Carlos Delgado beginning 
next season. 
An Indians spokesman con­
firmed the counterproposal 
was sent to Moorad but 
refused to discuss its con­
tents. 
Last Friday, Moorad sent a complex proposal to Cleveland owner Larry Dolan that would be the richest in sports history and make Ramirez baseball's first $20 million per year player. 
For the past week, the 
Indians have been analyzing 
both Moorad's acka e and 
their own economic situation. Cleveland general manager John Hart said he imagined the team would make a counter-proposal. and Thursday the Indians decid­ed to see if Moorad was will­ing to comc ..down in price. 
Moorad rejected a $75 mil­lion; five-year offer from the Indians in July. He has main­tained throughout the negoti­ations that Ramirez, 28, wants to stay in Cleveland and he would seek a career contract for his client. 
The Indians are the only team that can discuss salary with Ramirez through Friday. After that, Ramirez, who had 122 RBIs in just 118 games last season and 432 the past three years, is free to negotiate salary with any team. 
Earlier this week, Moorad said there were six teams three in each league who expressed an interest in talk­ing to him about Ramirez. He had already scheduled meet­ings at his Newport Beach, Calif., offices with two of those teams for early next week. 
The three-time World Series champion New York Yankees are believed to have targeted Ramirez as their No. 1 free-agent signing this win­ter. Ramirez grew up in New York. 


Which Big 5 Firm won fame with 
FORTUNE?----------------, 
Deloitte &Touche 

The answer •1& of Deloitte 
Iwww. us. deloitte. com I 
@2000 Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte & Touche refers to Deloitte & Touche LLP, and related entities. 
I I I I '.­I 

the people & Touche 
-
Deloitte & Touche is an equal opportmity finn. We recnit, employ. train, compensat.e, and promote wehout regard In race, reigion, a-eed, color, national origin, age, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, <isaaity, wteran status 1r any other basis protected by applcable federal, st.at.e 1r local law. 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November I 0, 2000 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Strawberry gets 30 days in jail
.. 
more. Strawberry said. I've got said he didn't think Strawberry
Asoociatcd Press 
to take responsibility for myself understood that when he quit 

TAMPA. Fla. 

Darryl Strawberry was jailed for at least another week by a judge who warned him Thursday to resume his treal­men t for 
colon can­cer or you are history. 
J u cl g e Florence Fostn also told the New York Yankees 


slugger that Strawberry 
he would gel no more chances to end his repeated drug use, and his next violaiion would land him in prison. 
If you can't make it on the outside, I'll find a place where you can get treatment on the inside, she warned. 
Before a courtroom crowd that included former teammate Dwight Gooden, the judge ordered Strawberry to resume chemotherapy treatments he halted last month when he said he had lost the will to live. 
You have got to get the thera­py or you are history, Foster said. 
Prosecutors wanted to send Strawberry to prison, but Foster refused. 
She sentenced him to 30 days. With time served and other credit received under Hillsborough County jail rules, Strawberry could be free in about 10 days, although an exact date was not set at the hearing. 
After he is freed, Strawberry will be outtitted with an elec­tronic monitor that will alert his probation onicer if he again leaves a drug treatment center. 
Strawberry said he felt the impact ol' his first prolonged time behind bars and was ready to sober up. 
I can't run from myself any 

TAKE IT UP ANOTCH. 
CHOOSE THE PATH LESS TRAVELLED. 
At Schlumberger we thrive on new challenges. We build and operate the most advanced technology in the world and travel to the ends of the earth to implement it We don't follow paths, we forge new ones for the rest to follow. Our employees are trained to master the 
-
technology of today, and are challenged to create the technology of tomorrow. Go ahead, choose the path less trav­elled, or better yet, create your own. 
Notre Dame Interviews 
Information Meeting: 
November 16, 2000 
7:00 pm -9:00 pm 
McKenna Hall, Room 100 
Interviewing: 
No11ember 17, 2000 
>www.slb.com/car<crssc 

Schlumberger_ ___. 
An equal opportunity employer. 
TAKE IT UP A NOTCH, PUSH YOUR LIMITS, VISIT OUR WEBSITE. 

in recovery. 
Strawberry told Foster the 
time he's already spent in jail 
has taught him a lesson. 
Less than a week ago, he told 
the judge he'd used drugs and 
stopped his chemotherapy 
because he wanted to die. 
Strawberry is under two 
years' house arrest for 1999 
charges of drug possession and 
soliciting a prostitute. His Oct. 
26 arrest for breaking house 
arrest was the third time he'd 
violated his probation. 
Assistant State Attorney 
Robin Fuson said he thought 
the sentence, which was rec­
ommended by Strawberry's 
probation onicer, was too light. 
Fuson expects Strawberry to be 
in trouble again. 
I hate to sound cynical, but I 
am. Fuson said. Very few peo­
ple complete these sentences. 
Strawberry's defense attor­ney argued that the 38-year-old couldn't get adequate care for cancer while in prison and needed to be returned to drug therapy to fight his addiction. 
Jonathan LaPook, the doctor who first detected Strawberry's cancer and has orchestrated his treatments, said Strawberry's cancer is extremely fierce and the best hope for him is aggressive, new chemotherapy treatments that can only be provided at top . cancer centers. 
The doctor described Strawberry's drug addiction and cancer as intertwined dis­eases that need to be treated simultaneously. He has recom­mended that Strawberry seek treatment in Minnesota at the Mayo Clinic and at Hazelden Foundation, a drug treatment center there. 
LaPook said Strawberry has no time to further dela·y his chemotherapy and said the ·slugger is down to one good shot in fighting the disease. He chemotherapy last month. 
Every bone in my body, every intuition tells me with Darryl we are in an emergency situa­tion, LaPook said as he testified via telephone from New York. 
LaPook said Strawberry also needed care for possible dehy­dration that can follow chemotherapy. Strawberry had one kidney removed this year after the cancer spread, and his remaining kidney could be harmed if dehydration isn't promptly treated. 
Seated in the audience watch­ing was Gooden, Strawberry's friend and teammate with the New York Mets and Yankees. Gooden, who himself had sub­stance abuse problems, said he came to the hearing to offer support, even though the two haven't talked since spring training. 
I just feel bad, Gooden said. I just feel terrible because that's someone who is basically like a family member going through a situation like this. 
Tim Sweeney, an attorney for the treatment center, HealthCare Connections of Tampa, told Foster that Strawberry will be under 24­hour surveillance. 
The center will turn Strawberry in if he leaves again. The electronic monitor produces computer records whenever the wearer strays outside set boundaries, and that becomes evidence to send an offender back to jail. 
The judge also ordered Strawberry to undergo random drug tests three times a week and to attend the Narcotics Anonymous meetings at the center. 
The Faces of Holy Cross 

"Our calling is to serve the Lord Jesus in mission not as independent individuals but as a brotherhood." 
(Constitutions of the Congregation of Holy Cross, IV.33) 
ANSWER ~ 
THECALL W 

www.nd.edu/-vocation 
Get a 5' x 8' ND flag today! 
Great for students. 20°/4 discount on 5'x 8' ND flag and 10% discount on all other items for ND students, faculty and staff with ND photo I.D. 

The Castle ofFlags © 
GOIRISH!!Jl 
FLAGS INTERNATIONAL® 
10845 McKinley Highway Osceola, Indiana 46561 Tel~phone: 219-674-5125 Visit us on the web at www.flagd.net 
Widest selection of Notre Dame flags and banners in the country. Over 70 varieties of U.S. flags, states and U.S. territories; international flags from around the world. 
Jim Bolinger, '84 -Proprietor 
--------------------.
----' 
' 
' 
' 
page 25 ' 
' 
Friday, November 10, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT ' 
' 

Dear Alumni &Friends, 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation to come together and celebrate the Eucharist this weekend. 
-i1 
l 
•
l 
'
Boston College Football Weekend ' l l ' 
' 
' 
a 
l
November 11-12, 2000 ' ' 
l 

0MPU5 
tv11Nl5TRY 

' 
' 
.. : 
l 
l 
' 
'• I' ' 
' 
l l 
Saturday Vigil Masses 
Basilica 30 minutes after game Stepan Center 45minutes after game 
Sunday Masses 
Basilica 8:00, 10:00 am &11:45 am 
Sacred Heart Parish Crypt 6:30, s:oo,9:30 &11:00 am 
l 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
~ 
-
' 
l ' 
' 
l 
' 
! 
-~--­
--·-------. 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 10, 2000 
CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish men prepped for return trip to Nationals 
Women ready to run at Districts 

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Associare Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame men's cross country team has put itself in strong position for a return trip to the NCAA Championships. 
With a top-20 ranking, three meet titles and a 10th place finish at Pre-Nationals to their credit, the Irish just need to maintain at Saturday's NCAA District IV Championships. 
"They've been ranked in the top 20 in the country since the rankings really got going in October," Irish coach Tim Connelly said. "You would expect them to be at Nationals." 
While the top two finishers will win automatic spots at nationals, Notre Dame should be a shoo-in for an at-large berth even if it places fourth or fifth overall. Beating so many quality teams this sea­son will likely impress the NCAA selection committee. 
"The men have a lot more margin for error right now," Connelly said. "Because they have run well all year, they've got a bunch of al-large points. 
Despite the breathing room, Notre Dame is aiming for a top-two finish so it can deter­
mine its own fate. 
"As a team, our goal is to get an automatic bid," junior Marc Striowski said. "We've beaten every team except for Wisconsin, so I think that it's pretty realistic. If we have just an average race. we shouldn't finish anything less than sec­ond." 
Top opponents for Notre Dame will be Big 10 power­houses Wisconsin, Michigan State and Indiana, along with regional foes Eastern Michigan and Butler. 
"We've beaten Indiana and Eastern Michigan already twice," Striowski said, "and those are our main competi­tion for second." 
The Irish regrouped after finishing three points out of third place at the Big East Championships. They rested their legs a little bit, and turned their focus to Districts. 
Top runner Luke Watson and Striowski, both juniors and All-Big East selections, will pace the team Saturday. 
"Luke and I have to run up front," Striowski said. "Then Pat [Conway] and the fresh­man Todd Mobley have to be in the top 20. Our fifth, sfxth and seventh guys have to run together, and hopefully, one of them will finish in the top 40." 
-
Notre Dame faltered in the

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Big East Championships in late 
A,soci.10 Sfort• Edito, 
October, placing sixth overall in a loaded field. Saturday's field The talent is there. The team will also be top-heavy, led by is in shapP. No. 3 Wisconsin and top-25 The only thing the Irish lack teams Michigan and Marquette. 
is  getting  the  "I  think  
whole team to run its best on the same day,  "/ think we're just start­ing to realize that we're  we're just starting to realize that  
hopefully this Saturday in the NCAA District IV meet in  as good as the other teams that we've looked up to:"  we're as good as the other teams that we've looked  
Ypsilanti, Mich.  up  to,"  
"We had a  haven't meet all where  Chrissy Kuenster senior  Kuenster said. "In the we 

year we've had seven poople step up and run as well as they can," women's cross country coach Tim Connelly said, "which is what we need to do." 
The Irish have a single senior running varsity, Chrissy Kuenster. The lark of experi­ence may have been a factor in early-season struggles. 
"They're fit. We've got girls with talent. The one thing it might be is a lack of confi­dence." Connelly said, "The one senior that we've got in the group is running very, very well. She's exceeded my expec­tations." 
Different runners have stepped up all season long. Some days, it's been Kuenster, other times, Jen Handley or Hachel Endress have taken on the challenge. But never have all seven varsity runners hit the mark. 
"We've all had a good race at some point in the season," sophomore Handley said, "hut for some reason, all seven of us haven't been able to do it at the same meet. Hopefully this week we will." 
race, have to bt' 

.ready to take the top spots indi­vidually, and not accept any­thing less." 
About 30 teams will take the line at Districts. Thu top two finishers earn automatic berths to the NCAA Championships. At-large schools are also select­ed based on their pcrf'orinance during the season. Since Notr<\ Dame has not raced up to its practice potential. according to Connelly. it likely needs at least a top-three finish to make it to nationals. 

"We've got to step it up immensely," Connelly said. "We're probably going to have to finish no worse than third." 
The race will be 6,000-mcters long, a kilometer up from the usual 5.000-meter distancP. 

"Mostly people are just excit­ed," llandlfly said. "It could bP our last race. People arc just going to go to the line with as much intensity as they havn lef't." 
\.. ! ,.., 

As You Wtsh11 
-0­

IMPORTS V::::::J,
. \ 

LOADS OF SILVER & BEADED JEWELRY SILVER RINGS AND TOE-RINGS PURSES. WALLETS, CHANGE PURSES TAPESTRY WALL HANGINGS/BEDSPREADS INCENSE SARONGS AND MUCH MUCH MORE ... 
DIRECT IMPORTERS! LOW PRICES! 
ALSO ... 
HUGE MOVING SALE!! 
ALL CLEARANCE ITEMS MUST GO OR THEY WILL BE DONATED!! 
UNIQUE CHRISTMAS GIFTS!! 
Proceeds fran sales of je..alry guarantee the loving han::ls of Guataralan fani.lies 3 tines tlE1r avera;ie salary, as ""'11 as fun:is for their Edraticn. 
LaFortune -Room 108 
NEAR TELEPHONES 
,_ 

There's more than one road to success. 
.

' , 


Friday, November I 0, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
Thin 

• 

0 
Olf 


. 
' 
•. 
-··-·



oncert 


for 
the 
1ss1ons 
Saturday, November 11 (BC Wk'end) 
9:00pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
afree..will offering will be taken up to benefit the Holy Cross apostolates of Santiago, Chile, and Haiti. 
VOLLEYBALL 
-

ELIZABETH LANG/The Observer Villanova goes up for a block against Notre Dame in the Sept. 29 Irish win against the Wildcats. 
Irish wrap up conference season 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
Sport, W ri tcr 
The Notre Dame volleyball team ends its conference sea­son this weekend as it travels to Syracuse. 
"We are approaching this weekend with the mindset that we have one last job to do in our Big East season. We need to go in playing at our highest level in preparation to win not only the season championship, but also the tournament cham­pionship," said sophomore Keara Coughlin. 
The Irish, 22-5 overall and 10-0 in the Big East, have secured the league title, but will look to remain undefeated in the Big East at 11-0 for the fifth time in six years. This will be the last chance that Syracuse has to get into the Big East Tournament. 
"We can't allow ourselves to get in a slump in the middle of a game. We need to keep a competitive edge through three games to finish out the confer­ence season," Coughlin said. 
Syracuse, 23-9 overall and 6­4 in the conference, will look for its second win in history against the Irish, the first being in 1981. Notre Dame has since won seven games against the Orangewomen. Dana Fiume will look to pose a threat to the Irish defense by adding to her season total of 501 kills. 
"Our blocking should be very good this weekend," said Coughlin. "All year we've been playing against very different types of competition and now that we're nearing the end of our season, all the aspects of our game should be better for 
it." 
The Irish are coming off a victory in its last regular season match against St. Louis (15-5, 15-5, 15-10). Senior co-captain Christi Girton led the Irish with 15 kills and 11 digs while class­mate Adrienne Shimmel set a career-high nine kills and five digs. Junior Kristy Kreher added 13 kills, six digs and four blocks. 
"The St. Louis match was a lot of fun for the seniors. It was great for us as underclassmen to see the five of them go out on the court and play in a way that shows how valuable they arc to the volleyball program," said Coughlin. 
cinema@thesnite 
presents 
-
Friday &Saturday 9:00 p.m. 
presented by ND Film, Television, and Theatre www.nd.edu/-cothweb 

Friday, November 10, 2000
page 28 The Observer . SPORTS 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish face International All-stars in final exhibition 

and Martin lngnlsby, Notre
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 

-Dame's scoring won't matter if
Associate Sports Editor 

the Irish let up on defense. "We need to play better 
Notre Dame will be hard­

defense, and finish the game
prnsscd to match ils 16-0 gamn­

liku we started the game," opnn ing spurt against the 
llumphroy said. "\Ve started out 
California Midwest All-Stars very strong and tlrnn we hit a

W(•dnesdav. but the Irish will 

wall. I feel like 
try Sunday 

Wt' came out on
against the 

"Offensively I think we fire. We have 
lntl'rnational 

to play like that 
Select All-Stars. are pretty explosive." 
for 40 min­
''I'd likn to see utes." 
us start the 

Mike Brey llumphrny, a 
same way, junior transfer

head coach
N otr11 Damn head coach Mike Brny said, "but maybe we'll nrver start off 16-0 ugai11." 
The Irish were dynamic on offense, but Brey .felt their defensive slides were unaccept­able. 
"Offensively, l think it shows we are pretty explosive," Brey said. "We're a work in progress defonsivPly. I'd like to see us defend for close to 40 minutes." 
Defense is the No. 1 priority across the bench for the blue and gold. While the dominant duo in the paint of Troy Murphy and Hyan llumphrey comple­ment a potent perimeter attack by David Graves, Matt Carroll 

J' r o m Oklahoma. made his first start for Notre Dam<1 Wedrrnsday. Several slam-dunks and powerful blocks by the power forward lel't the Joyce 
Center  crowd  in  awe.  Yet  
ltumphrey believes he can,  and  
will, play much better.  

"It was good to be out there on the court, but I thought I could have played better," Humphrey said. 
Perhaps Notre Dame didn't play up to its potential, but that may just be a sign of how good this team is. 
A "sub-par" performance by the Irish was good enough to drum the California Midwest 

............,_.. 
'HM Atut-ttJi, ~UP€tJr5, fAl--iili€5, AfJP fl2.i6MJ5 
"fOU'i2£ iNVir€D TO T~€ 't1r1A TAilGAT€ LOCAT€D TfJ r4-1€ ~EtJ1O'2. AA'2. cOU'2.rYA.:W. 
Ti-16 FUfJ B€GTfJ5 Ar 10130 A.f-'f. n.li5 ~ATU'2.DAV. 
t;O lf<.l~Hlll 

.............,_.. 
************************** 
* *
* * 
* Celebrate National French Week!! * * * 
!* Join the Notre Dame French Club fa-the French film *:Z 
* *
* * 
; Est-Ouest ;
! (E as t -West ) ! 
* OscarandGoldenGlobeNomineefor * * BestForeignFilm2000 * 
* Movie Is In French with English Subtltl es so a 11 are welcome! 
* 

* Sunday November 12 
** 2PM

!* Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art ** Admission $2.00
!
* 

Ail-Stars by :rn, whiln a higher­ranked Kentucky squad had to ruilv to beat the All-Stars bv 16. All:Stars coach Price Johi1son rated Notre Dame its best com­petition j'C't, outdoing Kentucky, Arizona. Kansas and DePaul, among others. 
The talents of Notre Dame's next opponent. the International Select All-Stars, r('main some­what of a mystery to the Irish, but llumphrey believes the Irish will determine their own fate. 
"If we come out thc~re, play our gamn and play likl' we're capable or playing," llumphroy said, "I think we have a good chance or winning." 
Two former Notre Dame~ play­f' l"S grace the roster or the International Select team. 
6-l"oot-10 forward Ken Barlow and 6-foot-5 guard Joe Price both playea for thc Irish from 1983-86. Barlow was a three­year starter, captaining the Irish bis l'inal two seasons and averaging more than 14 points per game. Price was a top reserve. 
The presence Clf the former Irish stars wearing the opposite team's uniforms could make Sunday's matchup more engag­ing to fans. It will be the final ~xhihitinn game for Notre Dame. 
T 

DUFFY-MARIE ARNOULTfThe Observer Junior Ryan Humphrey dunl<s the ball during Wednesday night's win against the California Midwest All-Stars. 
,RETIREMENT -,NSU.RAfftf MUTUAL FUNDS ~i»usr, SER~iru:; ._TUITION FINANc°ING 
' '
>. = .,v , 
Why is TIAA-CREF the 
#1 choice nationwide? 
The TIAA-CREF Advantage. 
Year in and year out, employees :it education 2nd research institl'tions hnve turned t_o TIAA-CREF. And for good reasons: 
• 
Easy diversificatic,n 2mong a range of expertiy managed fund; 

• 
A solid history of performance and exceptional personal service 

• 
A strong commitment to low expenses 

• 
Plus, afull range of flexible retirement income options 


For decades, TIAA-CREF has helped profrnors and staff at over 9,000 campuses across the country invest for­and enjoy-successful retirements. 
THE TIAA-CREF  
ADVANTAGE ~  
Investment ExpertisE  
Low Expenses  
Customized  
Payment Options  
Expert Guidance  

Choosing your retirement plan provider is simple. Go with the leader: TIAA-CREF 
Ca/I us far \ . afree 'i 
information___J_
-~
Package/ 
* 
*
* 

!*' 1-------------------------------------------------· 
* -•· Ensuring the future 1.800.842.2776
* for those who shape it.'M f---------------------­
! W\Vw.tiaa-cref.org
* 1------­
*

Sponsored by Le Cercle Fran~ais, The Nano vie Institute, -----------------------------------------1 and The De par t men t of Ro mane e Languages For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509. to request prospectuses. Read them carefully
* before you invest • TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. d1stribut1::s the CREF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities. • Teachers* * Personal Investors Services, Inc distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements •* * TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co.• New York. NY. issue insurance and annuities. • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust service,************************** •Investment products are not FDIC insured, m3y lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2000TIAA·CREF 08/03 
Friday, November 10, 2000 The Ohserver . SPORTS page 29 
Recruits 
continued from page 36 
uthletic director Edward "Moose" Krause. Krause averaged 12 points and 5.5 assists per game last year. 
Kaly Flccky or Lone Tree, Colo. is the highest-ranked member of' the group. falling at No. 13 on Blue Star's list. The 6-foot-2 for­ward reminds McGraw a bit of Kelley Siemon. 
"She's very similar to Kelly. She's a very strong rebounder. She's physical, aggressive. She can step back and hit the free­throw jumper," McGraw said. 
The other forward entering next year's freshman class is the athlet­ic 6-foot-1 Kelsey Wicks of Gillette, \Nyo. The versatile Wicks has played every position on the court for her high school team, and also excelled in goU' and track, winning the state championship in the high jump last year with a leap of' 5­foet. Ginches. 
The final member of the incom­ing class is shooting guard Allison Bustamante of Miami. Fla. Bustamante competed against Irish freshman point guard LeTania Severe during tourna­ment and playoff games in high school. 
"She's a great shooter." said Severe, who claims to having stopped her future teammate when guarding her in high school. Bustamante's shooting helped her score 40 points in her I.cam's dis­trict-championship winning victo­ry lar,t spring. 
Soccer 
continued from page 36 
round tilt against the Michigan Wolverines, Sunday at 1 p.m. Michigan advanced after nipping Miami or Ohio 4-:-l in doublu overtime Wednesday night. 
The Wolverines will enter play looking to exact revenge on an Irish team that beat them 3-0 in Ann Arbor just two weeks ago. 
Waldrum  is  happy  to  be  
playing  a  familiar  op po­ 
nent.  

"Things aren't going to change much from the first time around," he said. "I think that's a good thing. We know what to expect." 
Michigan boasts a strong offensive side led by sopho­more l'orward Abby Crumpton, who missed th~ first game against Notre Dame due to injury. 
Senior co-captain and play,\r of the year candidate Anne Makinen will once again lead the Irish attack. Makincn's passes will be headed in the direction of sophomore Aly Lovelace as well as freshmen Amanda Guertin and Amy Warner. 
Waldrum thinks his team's previous win over Michigan could affect the Wolverines in several ways. 
"One on hand, they're thinking of how we ham­mered by them and now they have to go play in our place," he said. "On the other hand,, they could come out more intense and 
-
DUFFY-MARIE ARNOULTffhe Observer 
Senior Anne Makinen tries to dribble past a Conneticut defender during Sunday's game. Makinen, the Big East Player of the Year, will be a key factor in the national tournament. 
try to knock us off. It's all "We have to have the atti­going to lie in the way they tude that every game is the decide to approach the championship game," he game." said. "Certainly we have to 
Waldrum is determined stay focused and remind not to let complacency ourselves that you don't become a factor in the post-advance unless you win." 
SOCIAL CONCERNS BOOKLET AVAILABLE 
The Spring edition of the booklet 
"Socia[ Concerns Courses with :Exyerientia[ andCommunity-:Based Learnin8'' 
is now available for all interested students and faculty at the Center for Social Concerns and at the office of Campus Ministry (both Badin Hall and Hesburgh Library) . 
. ~---
Samt Mane's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 
28TH ANNUAL 
EUROPEAN STUDY TOUR 

Informational Meeting 6:30-7:30 p.m., Monday, November 13 
Courses offered in Biology, Music, Philosophy, and Psychology. 
F'or further information contact: 
Professor Thomas Parisi Department of Psychology Saint ~lary•s College Notre Dame. Indiana .a6556 Phone (219) 284-4462 / Fax (219) 284-4866 e~mall: tparisl@salntrnarys.edu (E~mail is best!) 
-
page JO The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November I 0, 2000 
Student tnanagers play critical role in Irish athletics 
-
-
By JOHN BACSIK 
Spores Writer 
It's 6 p.m. on a Friday nighL. 
While most students are busy 
making their night's plans or 
walking over to the pep-rally, 
more than 70 student mangers 
work diligently inside the gales of 
the house that Rockne built. 
Every Friday before a home football game, 54 sophomores, .21 juniors and three seniors gather in the stadium around 2 
p.m. After working through the final football practice of the week, these managers take part in one of the richest traditions in college football -the painting of the helmel'i. 
"The best thing about painting the helmets is the tradition and the mystique behind it," said equipment manager Mike Hormuth. "We'n~ the onlv school in the nation that does this on a weekly basis, and not just anyone can be a part ofit." 
The common misconception about the student managers is that they arc exactly what people have seen in the movie "Hudy" ­all fun and no work. Unfortunately for these students, things are not as easy as just painting those hnlmets and going to a bar al'terwards. 
"This job takes more dedication than people might expect. We can work anywhere from 45-60 hours during a football week, and then we all have to balance school along with that." said per­sonnel manager Chris Bacsik. 
While the rest of his crew pre­pares things for Saturday's game, head manager senior Mike Ball travels off-campus with the team on Friday nights to help super­vise things in their hotel accom­modations. Ball chooses one junior manager each week to join him and the team at the hot.el. This junior then leads the team into the Basilica on Saturday morning before the game, a responsibility that is appropriate­ly dubbed the "coat and tic" tra­dition. 
Student managers arc respon­sible for the ordinary and the obscure. They set up the field before practices, chart the offen­sive and defensive plays for every game. and record the amount of time spent on the field for each player. They also make sure each 

Call 259-1000 for more details 
CATCH The Fall Spirit At 
Willia,nsburg
----;;7rn.;-e'T.,"'"dkij­
c1D . Crowd PleRSlng Walk-In Closets 
.O. Kick Off the Year at Penn 
Schools 
cC,. Tackle Your Storage Problems with a Spacious Apartment or Townhome
•=> It a Sure Field Goal with Your 
Gas and Utilities Paid and Your Pets Welcome 
Don't PASS up this Opportunity' 
Call now to reserve your
apartment or townhome. 
256-0237 
Cred,t Guodel"1<11 Apply 
Live At Williamsburg 

coach has their candy/gum of choice in their respective lockers, and they provide head coach Bob Davie with his supply of cafleine­free Diet Coke for every practice. 
"The coaches expect just as much from the managers as they do from the players," said Ball. "I think our role in this organization is a very important one." 
Just like the varsity athletes they work with, the student man­agers have a playbook of their own. The weekly assignments and responsibilities for each manager are posted online every week. While the juniors strictly work with the football team dur­ing the season. the sophomore managers are assigned to a vari­ety of' sports. 
The managers make up a gen­erous mix of males and females. Forty-six females, including 11 from Saint Mary's, are currently involved in the managers' organi­zation. 
"Evcryont1 works together on a daily basis," said junior manager Erin West. "We' re all working towards the same cause here." 
The student managers are admittedly friends as well as working partners. This makes 
Wnrrt Thm/'1 .Ujr ... Thcrr's ltipt 
Gratefully yours, 

their year-end task even more difficult. Come Nov. 22, the juniors will rank their peers to determine next year's three senior football managers. The sophomores face a similar situa­tion in April, when they rank each other to decide who will obtain the 21 junior manager spot.5. 
"There are many long hours and some bumps in the road when you're a manager," said women's basketball manager Gretchen Schumer. "Overall, though, we have so many doors opened lo us, and we receive scholarships f'or our senior years. which makes everything worth­while." 
Student managers started working for Knute Bockne in the 1920s, and they have been an integral part of the football pro­gram ever since. 
Junior manager Hob Mallory expressed his feelings on the experience as a whole. "This is something I feel privileged to be a part of. Not all the work we do is glamorous," he said, "but we love what we're doing. I wouldn't trade these experiences for any­thing in the world." 

THANK-YOU VERY MUCH, SORIN COLLEGE RESIDENTS, FAMILIES AND FRIENDS!! 
For your kind generosity to The Wilson Foundation. Because ofyour help, the collection at your Mass after the Air Force Game generated the amazing total of$19,700 for the work ofthe foundation in East Africa!! I return to Africa holding you all in a very special place in mind, heart and prayer. 

~~,~ 
(Rev.) Stephen P. Newton, C.S.C. 1402 S. Michigan St. President and ChiefExecutive Officer South Bend, IN 46613 http://www.changingourworld.com/providinhope
The Wilson Foundation 
The Wilson Foundation assists in the development ofprograms oftreatment, prevention and education for East Africans addicted to alcohol and other drugs. The work ofthe foundation is carried on primarily in areas where there is a presence ofthe Congregation ofHoly Cross. 
Currently 3 graduates ofthe Notre Dame and St. Mary's classes of2000 are giving a year ofservice in East Africa. Others have made commitments tor summer or other vacation times. Course credits have been arranged. 

Friday, November I 0, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 31 TYLER
TOM KEELEY 

THINGS COULD BE WORSEFOURTH AND INCHES 
WHATELY 

T,O'.IHG. nE l.EA.O F"AOM. 11:ECENT Fi'l;NTS IN Ft.Oft!i:'>A., sn.1~NTS WHO TOOil Yl-11 .efii ¢:HEM UO, 'tllst, lo ioo, c,i!t.V.ND A l!lFt."Ad 
~W!i 

-
..
r 


Birthday Baby: You are caring, true blue and always looking out for
T R A W S T O T O 34 Nike competitor 48 Prefix with -itis years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
others. You have a desire to make the world a better place to live. You are dedicated and willing to put yourself on the line for your beliefs. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Q.) Where can I find weekend fun~ 
A.) Take a closer look at sub. ___..., 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
I L A 
0 S 
CH 
company of friends over family.

-..~~L;;.i 26 Like a farm 57 Drawing
45 Big name in Compiegne 
Travel will be in your best interests. 
27 Baron juices 
You need a change. 00 LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will E R ...,.-t-:-+-:-+-:-L Munchhausen 

D I 
Y 29 Places of refuge 46 "Comin !" Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
be confused if you try to force issues 

(1981 3-0 are available by touch-tone phone: 
with your partner. Opportunities to

R E , -...;..i.;~c.+--T 30 Something to western} 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute) .
.-sip 
learn will be to your advantage.

A M E N A A C H Y 31 Together 47 Ice cream flavor, Annual subscriptions are available for the 
Don't allow family members or 

F I V E L C H A P 32 "Phooey!" briefly best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
THIS ARTICLE SAYS HOLLYWOOO'S ACTORS AND WRITERS MAY Go 
CROSSWORD 
CAN SoMEoNE TAPE

THINK ABOUT IT ­
ANO 
ToN16HT'S "FU<;1T111E"?

NO NEW MOVIES ... 
THIS 15 
I'M (;OING To "CI-IARLIE'S No NEW T\I SHoWS,.• 
DIFFERENT HA AN6ELS.. WITH STEVE. Ho~? HA.
\ '\ 
\::" 
In the event of a tie, candidates are required to fight to the death. 

HOROSCOPE 
DOWN 

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2000
1 Sons of, in Hebrew 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Roy Scheider, Sinbad, Macken­
2 Wagered 

zie Phillips, Richard Burton, Donna
3 "Tales of a 

Fargo
Wayside Inn" 
Happy Birthday: You must sepa­
bell town 

rate your personal life from your 
4 Swell 

professional this year. If you allow 5 Hootchy-_ 
your emotions to be involved in deci­sions regarding your future direc­
6 ''The 

tion, you will fall short of your goals. 
Untouchables" 

People that try to stand in your way 
composer 

must be set straight and asked to
Morrlcone 

stop interfering. You need to look out 
7 Shouts of 

for yourself and for the ones you 
triumph 

love. Don't take chances; instead, be 8 Promise to 
precise and calculating in all that you do. Your numbers: 9, 13, 28, 30, 35, 42
marry 
ARIES (March 21-April 19):
9" be in 

Become involved in social events
England ... " 

that require intelligence and action. 10 Rule, in Rouen 
You can enhance your reputation at 11 1969 Peace 
work if you help others meet their 
deadlines. 000 TAURUS (April 20-May 20):
Prize grp. 
12 Sure thing Disharmony with family members is13 Noodle 

likely. You will have a real thirst for 
concoction 

knowledge. Busy yourself with edu­14 Clear 
cational courses that will bring en­joyment as well as new connections.
15 Network: Abbr. 

000
21 Dependent 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You
Puzzle by Bob Klahn
22 Shine 
can ask a close friend for an opinion

35 Flap 49 Novelist 53 One of a group23 Paramecium, 
regarding a personal problem. Diffi­

Easton Ellis of 40-Across 
e.g. 36 "Summer and 
culties in your personal life may get 
a bit out of hand if you are experi­

24 Popeye's Smoke" heroine 50 Classic dress 55 Letters starting 
encing financial setbacks. 000
many military creator 42 L.A. 's San 51 Courtroom 

CANCER (June 21-July 22):
plane names25 Letter before Bay cover-up 

Don't spend money on luxury items 

qoph 56 French pronoun 
or your family. You will prefer the

44 Pernod flavoring 52 Combined, in 
-
Princes ofBabylon 
nov. 18 (friday) senior bar 
EUGENIA LAST 

'lovers to hold you back. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Be careful not to spoil children. You may want to blow your stack if things don't go as you planned. Finances will stabilize only through budgeting and tightening the purse strings. 
000 
LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct. 22): Roman­tic opportunities will evolve if you join intellectual organizations. Before making changes to your living quarters, be sure everyone is in agreement. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21) Problems concerning older family members may put you in a precari­ous position. Property investments will pay off if you put money into improving the premises. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21): Get into a travel mood. You will find exotic countries enticing. Try to deal with emotional issues, and you will see how much better your per· sonal relationship will be. 00000 . 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Difficulties will surface if you try to solidify an agreement with someone you live with. Don't make un­necessary changes. It is best to hold your position and wait to see what happens.00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Your romantic relationship will settle down if you are willing to compro­mise. You can make verbal agree­ments as long as they don't have anything to do with money. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will feel a bit tired if you've been burning the candle at both ends. Take the time to relax and rejuvenate. Don't rely on others to pay for y~1.1. If you don't have the cash, don't go. 
000 
ACROSS 
1 Comprehensive insurance plans 16 Cause for celebration 17 Summer runners 18 Romeo's last words 
•19 1995 role for Kenneth Branagh 
20 Empty talk 21 Start of a religious observance? 22 Command level: Abbr. 24 Personal involvement 28 Provider of a pick-me-up? 30 What 1 might mean: Abbr. 33 Contract provision 
37 "Leaving Home" author 
38 "Guys and 
Dolls" song 
39 Purged 
40 March figures, for short 
41 They're made to measure 42 Mtge. units 43 Broken 46 Trouble spots? 49 Capital of 
Moravia 50 It takes a beating 54 Team for which George Plimpton once played 58 "Ain't Misbehavin"' tune 59 Like 101, to 102? 

Acousticafe 
lafortune (thursday) 9pm 
Shaft & The Original Shaft debartolo 101 &: debartolo 155 (thursday) 10.30pm 
(friday & saturday) 8pm & J0.3opm 
_z., ____ • ..-~ ..-.­
Final tuneup 

Notre Dame's men ·s basketball team lakes on lhe International All-Stars in its final exhibition before the 
PORTS 
2000-or season starts. 
page 28 
O
THE 

-
page 32 BSERVER 

WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Ready to shine 
Top-seeded Irish 

..., anxious to start championship run By KEVIN BERCHOU 
Spores Wri tcr 
All season lung Nutre Dame women's soccer head coach Handy Waldrum has not minced wurds in articulating his squad's lofty goals. t\fter rnaching the NCAA champi­onship game last year before losing to North Carolina, Waldrum's mission t his time around is clear -the Irish want to be national champions. 
"We came so close last year," said Waldrum. "We were with­in 45 minutes of winning it all. This year, from the get go, our goal was not to just get back but to win it all." 
In the sprint for this year's title, the Irish have the pole position, seeded first in the NCAA tournament bracket by virtue of their 20-0-1 regular season record. t\s the top seed, the Irish will play all games 

... through the quarterfinals at home in the friendly confines of Alumni Field. With the top 16 teams getting a free pass to round two, the Irish will begin their champi­onship quest with a second 
sec SOCCER/page 29 


HOCKEY 

Irish look for revenge a-gainst No. 1 Eagles 
I 
By MATT ORENCHUK 
Sports Wrir<:r 
The Notre Dame hockey team hosts No. 1 Boston College Saturday. The Catholic school match-up is the second time the team will meet, after a 4-1 Eagles win in Boston earlier this season. 
Boston College and Notre Dame have played once before this year, with the Eagles winning 4-1. 
"We don't have any intimi­dation against Boston College. We are ready to play lhis game," sophomore defenseman Paul llarris said. "This is a big sports week­end, and the game is going to be a sellout, so we are excit• ed." 
The game could be an important momentum boost for the Irish. After getting swept by Michigan State two 

weeks ago, Notre Dame fought back to a win and a tie on the road at Miami (Ohio). 
The team has struggled defensively in the first month of the season. But a large part of that has been due to injuries. There have only been a couple of, games where the Irish has played with six defensive skaters. Tonight, Notre Dame will only have five defensemen. 
One of those will be senior left winger Jay Kopischke, who was moved to defense due to injuries. An added benefit of this is that it will give Notre Dame an offensive minded presence on defense, and every goal will count against the No. 1 team in the country. 
"With Kopischke on defense, we will hopefully be able to get more offensive opportunities from the point. 
and more break a ways, senior Dan Carlson said. 
The Irish have also worked hard on their special teams. This showed last weekend, with the power play giving Notre Dame two goals in their 5-1 pasting of Miami (Ohio). With the inexperience and injuries on defense, the power play production was a sigh of relief for Notre Dame. 
"The power play has been struggling, but we have picked it up, and have had a lot more chances the past couple of games," said Carlson. 
Boston College has the tal­ent to back up their No. 1 ranking. They displayed this in a 4-1 beating of Notre Dame on Oct. 13 in Omaha, Neb. The Eagles held Notre Dame in check thanks to the solid goaltending of senior goalie Scott Clemmensen, who stopped 25 of 26 shots. 
Krys Kolanos leads the team in goals with 10 while Brian Gionta has nine assists and 13 points for the Boston College offensive attack. Boston College brings a 9-2-0 record into tonight's game. However, the Eagles second loss came this past Tuesday when they lost 4-3 to Yale. 
Despite their opponent's recognition, Notre Dame believes that they can play with the No. 1 team in the country. Offense, defense, and special teams have all been playing better for the Irish. With a little luck and some hard work. Notre Dame can pull this thing out. But they will need a solid effort from everyone on the team. 
"We feel pretty good about this game," Carlson said. "We played well against them last time, and had some chances. We need everyone to step up and get the job done." 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
McGraw lands top recruits 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Assiscanc Sports Editor 

Follo"rving the departure or head men's basketball coach Matt Doherty artcr only one season. the importance of being able to guar­ante{) continuity in the coaching staff during recruiting has become magnified at Notre Dame. 
As a reward for the team's suc­cess -as well as providing a powerful recruiting tool -first­year athletic director Kevin White rewarded head women's basket­ball coach Mullet McGraw with a live-year contract that will keep McGraw at Notre Dame through the 2004-2005 season. 
"Coach McGraw has indeed demonstrated that Notre Dame can be a consistent player at the elite level of women's basketball and this contract represent'i our mutual interest in advancing this respective level of achievement," White said Thursday in a pre­pared statement. 
Although the contract was first announced Thursday, McGraw said she signed it quite a while ago. As a result, she was able to tell prospective members of the Class of' 2005 that she indeed would be under contract as their coach for their entire career. 
McGraw came out of the recruiting jungle with one of the most solid recruiting classes in the short history of Irish women's basketball. Four of the five recruits announced Wednesday afternoon are ranked among the top 100 high school seniors by Blue Star basketball, including two players with close ties to Notre Dame. 
Jacqueline Battcast, a 6-foot for­ward who attends South Bend's Washington high school, is sum to quickly become a crowd favorite. 
'Tm so excited about having a local player," said McGraw. "Our crowds have really increased already. Our season ticket sales arc way up. We feel like that's going to help us even more." 
Batteast already is a two-time Northern Indiana Conference most valuable player, averaging 21 points and 14 rebounds per game last year. Shn likely will start out at the power forward position. although her 3-point shooting skills make her a versa­tile addition to the IrL'ih olfonsn. 
Point guard JiII Krause brings a familiar name to t.he Irish roster as the 5-foot-6 veteran of Notre Dame's summer basketball camp is the granddaughter of longtime 
sec RECRUITS/page 29 
vs. Boswn College vs. Boston College Welsh Family vs. Howard Women's lncerhall Championship
{I

Today, 7:05 p.m Saturday, 3:30 p.m. 
~

SPORTS ~ ~ ...~ Sunday, 11 a.m. 
ATA •
Women's College Cup Cross country Knott vs. Keenan 
-
second round NCAA Discrict IV Championships Men's lnccrhall Championship
vs. Michigan in Ypsilanti, Mich. Sunday, I p.m Sunday, 12:30 p.m. 
GLANCE 11 
Saturday, TBA 


page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 10, 2000 
gallle hype Irish look _to shoot down pesky Eagles 
Oelrv-e11i1f Tk ~Hzza/ 


Voted "BEST DELIVERED PIZZA" -2000 Best of Michiana 
.------, r ------,
GAME DAV SPECIAL 

I I Large, I Topping I I I Large, I Topping I 
I $8.9'} OR I I s,eadstlcks Papa Predicts:
I I 2 Large, 2 Topping I I 2 LI/er I 
L __~2~9-_ .J
L --:.!.3!°--.J NOTRE DAME -24 
i ------, r ------,
Manager's Special famlly Special 
BOSTON COLLEGE -13
I 1 Lorg,e, 2 Topping and 4 I I I Larg• W/Workl II Cam ol I I La,ge, 2 Topping
I I
I Coca-Co/a C/asslc I I $ 17.99 Of I L __~o::_9__.J L Exira Large $20.99 .J 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 271-1177 271-7272
.------, .------,
I Lale Night Sp,.clal I I Grand Papa I 
9pm -I . Monday-Thursday 11 am-1 am....,-___..Ope
1 am 1 Extra Large,
I I I 
larg11 One Topping 2 Toppings
I I I I Friday-Saturday 11 am -3 am FOr 
$1 99

L ______ .J L $10.99 .J Sunday Noon -1 am 

~ 
"The mast popular # on campus" 

"J remember vividly Chris Hovan picking up grass and running around. You 


Jim Jones don't like to offensive guanl see that on your home field... 
"We ·ve got our handsfull. They're a high execution team. they don't make mistakes. lhey 

Bob Davie 
don't beat 
Irish head coach

themselves. " 

"It's going to be emotional." 
Dan O'Leary tight end 
"Notre !Jame is 10-0 after weeks o.O: so it doesn 't look like things are in our Javor heading into 

Tom O'Brien 

South Bend." 
Eagle head coach 

By BRIAN BURKE Sports Writer 
With a Bowl Championship Series bid now in sight, it is only fitting that Notre Dame faces a Boston Collogo squad this Saturday that has developed a knack for spoiling Notre Dame seasons. 
Most Eagle fans revel in the memory of David Gordon's 41­yard field goal that ruined Notre Dame's national title hopes in 199:{. That game still sits ou par with Doug Flutie's Hail Mary to beat Miami in 1984. On a much smaller scale, Boston College's 31~29 con­quest of the Irish last season eliminated them from bowl contm1tion and otlicially put the stamp on Notre Dame's season as a disaster. 
Saturday's matchup between 6-2 Notre Dame and 6-3 Boston College falls somewhere in between. The [rish must win their next throe games to earn a likely bid in the Fiesta or Sugar Bowl, which would be their first major bowl appear­ance since 1995. Boston Colleg,, meanwhile seoks a seventh. win that would probably ensure them a spot somewhere in the post season. 
"This week it's going to be another battle," said head coach Bob Davie. "You look at Boston College, they're 6-3. They're a good team ... They're a<; good as anyone we've played onommsc." 
A primary objective on defense for Notre Dame will be to contain the heart and soul of the Eagle offense: sophomore tailback William Green. The lcacfmg rusher in the Big East, Green has averaged 111 yards on the ground per game this season, but will be runmng into the strength of the Irish defense 

JOE STARK/The Observer 

Junior running back Tony Fisher runs the ball during last year's 31-29 loss to the Eagles 
as Boston College defensive back Jonathan Ordway pursues. 
in their front seven. Notre Dame has blitzed with more success this year than in 1999, and the Irish will look to the likes of Tony Driver or Ron Israel to slow the Eagle's talent­ed sophomore back. 
The bigger issue of late for Notre Dame has been pass defense. In the past three games the Irish have given up several big plays through the air that, at least in the last two, could have cost the team wins. The secondary, and especially the corners take on extra responsibility if Notre Dame brings more defenders up to stop Green. 
"It's kind of embarrassing, first of all, to give up points and yards kind of in bushels the way we've done it," Davie remarked. "The Navy game was different because we had bllSted assignments. The West Virginia game, I honestly thought we got tired. The Air Force game, I thought they made some great plays ... It's not that we're under-talented, it's not that we're snake bit, not that we're out of shape. We just got to go close to it and make some plays." 
Offensively, quarterback Matt LoVecchio will have the luxury of a running game that should thrive against a Boston College defense which ranks 92nd nationally against the run. The true freshman is 4-0 as a starter and has thrown at least two touchdown pa'ises in each of those contests. LoVecchio has displayed a good touch in throwing the deep ball, as well as the ability to scramble when the play breaks down. I laving said all that, if the Eagles are chasing Julius Jones all over the field, less will rest on the young quarterback's shoulders. 
Both teams have talent in the backfield and at the receiver positions, giving this game the potential to see saw back and forth. A key for Notre Dame will be how much their pa<;s cover­age has improved during the bye week. II' Brian St. Pierre can complete pa'ises that open up the running game, Boston · College has a cha.nee to come out of South Bond with another sea'ion-making win. However if' the Notre Dame defense is able to commit eight men lo bottling up Green, the Irish offense should pave the way to a win, and one step closer to Tempn or New Orleans. 

Friday, November 10, 2000 The Observer . COVER STORY page 3 
Reaching his goals 
• O'Leary leads Notre Dame toward BCS bid 
By TIM CASEY Assisran r Sporrs Editor 
Dan O'Leary had just started playing football. I le \Vas a young te<'nagcr in the <'arly 1990s, a 6­l'oot-3 180-pound tight encl at St. Bernad!ltte's school in Ohio. During those years, he formPd many friendships, won a lot of games and created lifelong ,rn~morics. 
Including one of a tall, skinny teammate. 
"lie used to wear polo socks to practice," O'Leary said. "He just didn't lit in." 
Fast forward to Nov. 20, 1999. Notre Dame Stadium. The two classmates were now rivals, O'Leary playing al home, the polo sock-wearing kid dressed in Boston College's white, maroon and gold away uniforms. 
Chris llovan, All-Halph Lauren had transformed into Chris IJovan, AU-American. 
Hovan had also changed his football-self into a character from The Program. When O'Leary lined up and looked at the 6-foot­3 290-pound defensive end with the bla<'k and white painted face, he laughed. 
'Tm just like 'nice face, you moron,"' O'Leary said. "It was lunny." 
The big kid from Ohio's humor­ous. outgoing personality has remained intact. 
But since then, he aL'io earned a degree in sociology and computer applications, been named captain at Notre Dame, and caught the attention of NFL scouts. 
On Saturday, the fifth-year senior will raise his gold helmet to the student section for the final time, ending an unexpected career. 
'Tm glad he's getting recogni­tion as a senior," coach Bob Davie said. "lie certainly deserves it." 
Using his talents 
Growing up around Irish­Catholics, O'Leary watched Notre Dame on television every Saturday. He dreamed of playing quarterback back. But there was a problem. 
O'Leary's parents told their son to 'use his talent<; elsewhere' and described football as 'too rough of a sport.' 
They finally obliged when all of O'Leary's friends started playing at St. Bernadette's. 
"They're probably thanking their lucky stars now," O'Leary said, "[with me) saving them some money for college." 
He had always envisioned attending the local public high school but when his athletic tal­ents became obvious, O'Leary enrollr1d at St. Ignatius, a Jesuit school in Cleveland. 
The team would arrive three hours early, ,vatch film and attend mass together before play­ing in front of sell-out crowds. Every wePk. 
O'Leary lettered three times, was captain as a senior and won !'our Division 1 state titles. In 

O'Leary 

position: tight end year: senior awards: Parade prep Al/­America pick '95, rated No. 75 on Chicago Sun-Times list oftop zoo in '93, rated one oftop 50 players nationally by Street & Smith's and Athalon in '95, rated as the No. 4 prospect on best ofMidwest team by Detroit Free-Press in '95 notables: has eight receptions and one 
touchdown on the season 
1993, when O'Leary was a sopho­more, USA Today crowned St. Ignatius as its mythical nationai champion. He caught 46 passes in each of the next two seasons. 
"I was like a Shannon Sharpe­type," O'Leary said. "l got the ball like every other play." 
And that became a problem. O'Leary narrowed his choices to Notre Dame and Boston College, a school where the tight end rou­tinely ranked high in receptions. His idol was Pete Mitchell, the Boston College tight end who scorched the Irish in the memo­rable 1993 game. 
Lou Holtz visited in the fall of 1995 (O'Leary still has pictures of the visit in his home) and promised that O'Leary would be an integral part of the offense, that he would be a main target for quarterback Ron Powlus. On his official trip to campus in December, the Irish staff greeted O'Leary \vith a yellow sign honor­ing the great tight ends of the present and past including Pete Chryplewicz, lrv Smith, Oscar McBride, Derek Brown, Mark Bavaro, Tony Hunter, Ken MacAfee and Dave Casper. 
Also included was "O'Leary 86." 
The recruiting hype d_id not immediately sell the senior tight end. 
He waited awhile until he received advice from his parents, older sister Margie, friend Colm Carr and St. Ignatius strength and conditioning coach Marty Uinon. 
"They convinced me that even though Notre Dame hasn't been throwing the ball to tight ends in the past, that l could turn that around and make a name for myself," O'Leary said. "That was one of' the motivations that I came into Notre D4me with, just getting rid of that image that they don't throw to tight ends. I haven't completely done it so far ..." 
Lowered expectations 
One \\·eek earlier, the Irish improved to 3-0 with a 27-24 vic­tory over No. 6 Texas. But here it 

Tight end Dan O'Leary catches a pass from quarterback Arnaz Battle in Notre Dame's 24-10 season opening win over Texas A&M. 
was, on the afternoon of Sept. 27, Independence Bowl game against classmen, including freshman 1996, when O'Leary suffered his LSU. While the rest of his family tight end Billy Palmer. first college defeat, a 29-16 deci­celebrated, O'Leary participated "During two-a-days I had a sion to Ohio State. By the end of in two-a-days. question and went to him," October, they were 4-2 and the "I just wanted to be home with Palmer said. "Immediately right laughingstock of college football all my friends," O'Leary said. then, I knew he was the guy to go after a 20-17 loss to Air Force. "After the first two years, I wrote to. I have nothing but good things 
Welcome to Notre Dame. down as one of my goals that I to say about him." 
"I was expecting-to do the wanted to play in a BCS bowl And O'Leary feels the same whole thing [\,vin every game] all game before I leave." way about the 2000 Irish. Three over again," O'Leary said. more wins and one of his other 
Like most freshmen, O'Leary goals will be met. 
Respected peer
struggled. He lost games, played Yet his mind remains focused
Davie addressed the team on a 

on the scout team and tried to on this weekend, when friends ­
July afternoon earlier this sum­
find time to study. including former Boston College
mer. A day before, the Irish voted 
Then in November, Holtz quarterback and St. Ignatius
on the captains for the 2000 sea­
resigned. teammate Scott Mutryn -and
son. And now Davie read the
"I thought he'd be here for the family will see him play his last
names: Jabari Holloway, Anthony 
next 10 years." O'Leary said. game in the Stadium. 
Denman, Grant Irons. 
O'Leary turned to seniors As of Tuesday afternoon,
And Dan O'Leary. 

Chryplewicz, Kevin Carretta, O'Leary was not sure whether his 
"Right after that we had to run

Marc Edwards and tight ends parents would be attending this 
20 110-yard sprints," O'Leary
coach Bob Chmiel for advice. He weekend. Margie is expecting her
said. "l was running those things
did not see any action as a fresh­second child. 
so fast that day. I wasn't winded 
man but O'Leary became the So if their daughter does not
at all. I was sky high." 
starter the next year. In the sec­have the baby by Saturday, the
Said Davie: "I was hoping it

ond game, he caught a boot pass, O'Leary's will probably stay homo 
would be that way. He's the pnr­
ran upfield and lowered his as their son suits up in the Blue
foct combination of what a Notre
shoulder into a Purdue line­and Gold.
Dame man is all about." 
backer. Regardless, another problem
Five years ago, O'Leary vowed 

He separated the shoulder and remains.
to change the Irish offense. 
missed the next six games. "I have to get a lot of tickets,"
He has been unsuccessful, as

O'Leary never fully recovered O'Leary said. "I don't know if I'm 
the tight encl has eight receptions 
that fall. And besides the physical going to be able to pull it off."
this year and caught only 13 in
pain, he also suffered emotional At least one friend will be
1999.
pain. unable to visit. 
But he has reached the goal he 

On Christmas Day, 1996, the 7-Hovan will be in Minnesota. 
wrote down before coming to
6 Irish were in Shreveport, La., The Vikings defensive end has
South Bend: to become captain.
preparing for the upcoming a game on Sunday.
He acts as a mentor to the under­
birthdate: September z, greatest personal athletic word to describe him off the 
1977 moment: Scoring a field: relaxed hometown: Westlake. Ohio touchdown and making a most impressive person he has major: sociology and diving catch Jor a key first met since attending Notre ­
up close & 
personal 

computer applications down in the '99 USC game Dame: Wayne Gretzky dimensions: 6-foot-3, 260 lbs. word to describe him on the CD he plays the most: Frank WITH DAN O'LEARY favorite food: pasta field: intense Sinatra 
Friday, November I0, 2000

page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 

IN POSITION: secondary
Fighting Irish schedule Sep, 2 TEXAS A&M W Sep. 9 N iilll-~ L ~ UE W 

;~---.·__ •___ --. _State ~ 
Na.\~~-.; W 

Oct. 21 at West Jlfginia W Oct. 28 AIR FORCE W Nov. 11 BOSTON COLLEGE Nov. 18 at Rutgers Nov. 25 at USC 

fourth season at Notre Oame 
career record: 
27-18 
al Notre Dame: 
LIZ LANG/The Observer 
27-18 

Brock Williams (No.1) and Tony Driver take down Nebraska's Dan Davie against Boston 
Alexander during the Cornhuskers' 27-24 win against the Irish Sept, 9. head coach College: 2-, 
Secondary aims to improve 
Roster 

the line of scrimmage to shut him down. Observer StaffReport rn order to do that. ihe corners must be
No. N•me Pos. HI. Wt. YR 1 llrock Williams CB 5-10 l'IO SR 
able lo cover two solid Hoston College 
2 Carh-u. l'ic.1rrt•-Anh)me ll.B &-3 242 JR 
The Notre Dame secondary has befm receivers in .Jamal Burke and Dedrick 
2 IJ,,n Nuv,,k<>v QI! 6--1 220 so 3 Am.1z ll.ittlv QB &-1 2IX JR 
Lhe weak link in thr. Irish defense over DcWalt. Junior and sometimes starter 
4 j11stinSmilh I'S 5-11 197 SR 
the past two games. Big passing plays Clifford Jefferson is out with an injury, 
5 l<nn lsrat•l SS r,.o WK SR 
by West Virginia and Air Force allowed and Jason Beckstrom will ne(~~ to help
David Civt•n!-i J-.1. 6-3 217 JR 7 Cirlyl,• Ii<11iday QB t>-2 190 FR 
them to crawl back into games that lill that void. If quarterback Brian St. 
8 Lorenzo Crawford WR 5-l t 175 FR 
should have been over. This week, the Pierre makes Notre Dame worry about 
9 Jan•d Cl,irk Q!l M 220 FR 111 Mr1tt l.0Vt•1.:chio QB 6·3 211~ Fl< 
defense faces possibly the best running the run and thn pass, this one could go 
IO Ryan Kn1t•ger QB 5-9 17R JR 
back on the schedule in Willian1 Grmm, down to the wire. Shut down the pass, 
11 Jay Johnson SE 5-11 195 r-R 
and the Irish likely will need to crowd and the Irish should pull away. 
12 Tonv Fish,•r TB 6-2 225 JR 1:i Nick 5,•tt• K)P l>-0 175 so 13 Jol' Rl'l'l'lldl'z QH/TE Ml 222 SR 14 Cary ,;od,ey QB t>-7 240 so 15 Clifford Jl'ff<•rs,.>n CB 5-9 1811 JR lb Abram EJ,,m QB/DH 6-l 190 FR 17 Joey! lilclh<>ld !' 5-10 190 so 18 ]<>CY Ct•lhNall Fl. 5-7 175 SR 19 Gk1 nn E,ld S..'S 6-2 215 so 2U Ct.•rnmt• Si,pp FS fl.0 210 Fl< 21 j,ivin ! lunt,•r SE 6-0 1Hli JR 
-·~ 
fuHu,,-fnrn-, TI! ,._ w 2!11 SC, 2.1 Chris Yur,l f'B 5-11 211 so 24 Chad IMlo!t CH 5-111 19'.1 so 25 Tony Driv,•r FS l>-2 220 SR 26 C,unin Bihlt· RR 5--HJ 11!5 FR 'l7 Jasnn lh·kstrum CB 5-IO 1911 so 28 Donald Dykes SS 5-11 195 JR 29 Justin Smith FS 5-11 193 SR 2Y llri,tn lll,•mc,.ak FL 5-11 195 SR 3ll H.lx:ky Boimdn 01.B 6-4 240 JR 11 I>waynl' Franch-. rn 1,-() 195 JR 32 Tl:"rrann• t hJward TB 6-1 195 JR 3.1 Cnurtnt'V WaL'k.m 11.B 6-1 220 so 34 Vonk:1 lluJJ RB 1>-1 175 Fl< 34 j,isdnt Vukl'Hch Fil 5-10 229 SR JS !J.widMilli'r K 5-11 19l JR 35 TimO'N,•ill TB 5-5 l70 JR 36 Tom l.npll'nsk.i F8 b-1 245 JR JI! l'rt:ston JiTl·kson DB 5-10 172 FR 18 Erk· Nt•L'ii!H\ l.ll 6-0 225 JR JY Anthony !")1..•nn;.iiH" IL.B b-2 235 SR 4U la,on Murr"7 Fil b-l 2SY SR 4l Mikt· cy,{..tiy LB 6-4 225 FR 42 Sh,1m.• W,,lu;n CB 5-11 183 JR 43 Anthony Brann,m II.fl 5-10 215 SR -l4 (,;rdnt !runs DE r,.5 275 SR 45 Matt Sarb ss 5-11 201 JR 4n lt'rt•my juucz Fil 5-11 251 SR 47 Mik,• M,-Nair FB 6--0 240 JR 48 Kyle l>udinscak DI. &-5 250 FR 49 D,•n•k Curry Lil f>-4 225 FR 50 Ct•drk l ti1Ji,1rd DT b-2 290 so,1 
Tyl'l'o I ic1rrisun ILB h-2 242 JR 52 Jdf Faint• C r,.3 292 so 52 Mark Mitch,•11 OLB 5-10 220 SR 53 Ji:1snn I lalvnrson LB &-2 210 so ,4 Luigi R,,o !LB 5-10 215 SR 55 Jlm Jones OG b-2 310 SR 51, Pat Ryan 11.B &-3 2.15 so 57 J-u:.tin Thtimas OI.B b-1 245 so 58 Jt1s1,ph Mu,•llt•r LB 5-11 195 SR 59 Brian Dierc:km.dJ'l 11.B b-1 255 SR f,ll Dam•II Campbell DE t,-4 285 so bl MikeZdmka FB b-0 225 SR 62 Cas.,y Robin or &-7 305 SR 6..1 Rrt•nnan l'urtin Of b-8 315 so (,4 John Crowth~r C 1>-2 240 JR h5 Sean Mill i~'1n lX, b-4 295 so h6 JW Jord,10 C b-1 275 SR h7 Ry,rn Gillis 0G b-3 292 so 6Y Miki' G•ndy ex:; 6-4 315 SR 70 Jim Molirn,rn IJE 6-6 265 so 72 ayan Sc·nrol,1 OG o-5 JOI JR 73 ,\d.irn T1bble K 5-11 201 JR 75 Kurt VnUNs or &-7 J!O SR 76 john Tt•aetl,1lc OT &-5 305 SR 77 (. ;reg P,,ulv rn. r,.6 275 FR 78 JorJan Black OT 6--b JHl JR 7Y Sl'an M,1h.1n or 1,-] 21IB JR w Omar Jenk.ir,s WR b-2 lHO FR 81 jl<rt,mliCnUiru; WR f>-4 200 fl{ 82 W.annit• W.od.nmt~r WR b-4 185 l'R 82 IJl'mM<I Akatu SE 5-10 IMO JR 83 j,lsh l,t•ntiit• K/P 5-11 IW so 84 J<>hnOwm.s DE t,-J 265 JR HS Jdtrc•y Campbdl Tf./DE t>-1 20i) JR 81, Dan O'l•••ry TE r,.J 260 SR 87 j,1bari I lotlow•y n: r,.1 260 SR 89 Cl'.'rnld Mor,.;an TE 6-4 261 JR 90 l...mce l.et;rl:'l' NC &-1 285 SR 91 Andrc•w (),•mpsey DE <t-2 265 SR 92 Matt M,•N,•w K &-3 200 SR 93 H.J. Senti DT 6-J 290 SR 94 Andy Wbn,· (Jf r,.J 272 SR 95 Kyan H.obl•rt.-. DE <t-2 251 JR 96 UiUy l\11nwr TE 6-:l 250 FR </8 Anlhonv Wl'ilVL1r DT b-:1 276 JR <j<j Jn:i<tn S~pp Lil 6-:1 2.10 l'R 
. Ol.!AA 10-Lo 9-CI  LE 7B-8 6 -leFT" GU  
\:: FULLBACK 47-McNalr 40-Mu~ay  
RIGHT GUARD 6!.-Gandy  
TIGHT END 87-HoUoway 66-0'Laa,y . ( FLANKER 18-Getherall 6-Glvens  
\  - 

I _f ­
/ /
.Boston College 
I ' 

.../ I; 
_../.,
OFFENSE ~­

TAILBACK 
,' .i
35-Weahlngton 
CORNERBACK 
42-Wallon 
15-Jaffersoo 

~­
OLB 
30-Boiman 
43-B!annan 
TI~ 
!li•Ellla 
60-G1111no 
TAILBACK~-~..•__ . ·_ ,..R
~ ..IGHT GUARD
66•Kukauska• 
· 78-Hoffman 

. :;_:, ···_·\; SLB 
' 51-Harrl ¦on 
2-Pterre-Antolne 
" 

~~~'., _I 
70-Murp!,y C 
-f';' • f" 
FREE SAFETY 

WIDE RECEIVER \' , 25-0tlver 2Jl-Oykas
~:~~: . , .· 

. ·;(-.. .;._, .,r·. 
.:/)1
WLB ' 
39-Denman 33-Wa!son 
:t
..• 1'1I. CORNERBACK ,­
1-Wllllams 
27-Beckslrom 




Eagles schedule 
Sep. 2 at West Virginia L 
Sep.9 atA w Sep. w 
L 
w 

w Oct. 21 at L Oct. 28 RUTGERS w Nov. 4 TEMPLE w Nov. 11 at Notre Dame Nov. 25 at Miami 

4th season at Boston College 
career record: 
22·21 
at Boston College: 
22-2 J 

Tom O'Brien against Notre Dame: head coach I-2 
Roster 

No.  Name  Pol:i.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
1  William Green  RB  h-l  216  so  
2  Brian St. Pierre  QB  6-3  206  so  
5  Grant Adnms  WR  6-1  ms  FR  
6  RaM,,n Johnson  lJll  5-\0  186  SR  
7  Tim hnss,,lback  Qll  6-1  205  SR  
8  Eric Boatright  QB  6-4  215  FR  
9  Lenny Walls  DB  6-4  205  JR  
10  Kevin Kiley  QB  r,.3  208  FR  
11  Dedrick Dewalt  WR  5-9  179  JR  
12  Keith Hemmings  WR  6-2  201  so  
13  William Poole  DB  5-11  lHO  FR  
14  Ryan R,•ad  WR  5-9  179  JR  
15  Kenney Caskins  WR  5-9  172  JR  
16  Greg Toal  FB  5-11  197  FR  
17  Joel Hazard  WR  5-11  175  Fl<  
18  Doug &•;settc  DB  5-11  203  so  
lY  Peter Shean  DB  5-Y  170  FR  
20  D,•rrick Knight  RB  5-9  196  FR  
21  Trevor White  DB  5-8  178  so  
23  T.J. stancil  DB  6-2  195  FR  
24  Ralph Parent  DB  6-2  205  so  
25  Kevin Dykes  WR  5-10  190  FR  
z.,;  D.J.Sutton  DB  5-8  la9  SR  
26  Curtis Bold,•n  DB  6-1  218  so  
27  Paul Crn1k  DB  5-11  197  FR  
28  Jonathan Ordway  DB  5-IO  180  JR  
29  Chris Bam,•s  WR  6-0  203  FR  
30  Emmerson Phillips  DB  6-0  193  JR  
32  DuJuan Daniels  WR  5-11  181  JR  
33  Sandro Sciortino  K  S· 10  200  FR  
34  Mik,• Sutphin  l'K  6-3  203  SR  
35  Cedric Washington  RB  5-10  200  SR  
36  Brian Flores  DB  5-11  l95  FR  
36  Jonathan Yudt  l'K  5-10  155  FR  
37  Nick &Ivins  Lil  6-1  219  so  
39  Matt Tower  RB  5-9  215  so  
41  Marco Williams  LB  6-1  212  SO.  
43  J.P. Com,•lla  FB  6-0  225  FR  
44  J.D. Schmidt  l.B  6-3  225  FR  
45  ),,sh Ott  LB  6-2  215  FR  
46  Haven PNkins  LB  6-1  225  FR  
47  Kevin McMylcr  I'  6-1  197  so  
48  Ryan Utzkr  FB  6-1  236  JR  
49  Sydney Baskins  LB  6-\  2.10  FR  
50  Paul LaQuerre  0G  6-3  290  SR  
51  Jerome Ledbetter  l.ll  6-1  219  so  
52  Andy Romanow,ky  I.B  6-2  225  JR  
53  Todd McKniff  OL  r,.5  271  so  
54  Scott Bradley  LB  b-l  222  JR  
55  Steve Martin  LB  r,.2  2.10  SR  
58  Derric Rossy  DE  6-3  246  so  
59  Ken Dudnick  PK  6-4  200  FR  
60  Jnrdan Stockwell  OL/DL 6-4  330  FR  
61  Doug Goodwin  DL  6-2  280  FR  
62  John Richardson  0G  6-4  285  JR  
63  Mike Callahan  LB  &-1  266  JR  
64  Keith Leavitt  DT  6-7  290  FR  
65  MichadCook  OT  6-5  318  SR  
66  Paul Zukauskas  OL  f,-6  310  SR  
67  Rudy Dipierto  OL  6-4  324  FR  
69  Frank Wilpert  OL  6-5  286  FR  
70  Dan Murphy  OT  6-6  289  so  
71  Leo Ball  OT  6-8  281  FR  
72  Anthony Crossen  DL  6-3  270  FR  
73  Mark Parenteau  OL  6-5  271  so  
74  Jim Connor  OT  6-5  270  FR  
75  Marc Columbo  OL  f,-8  296  JR  
76  Chris Sm•c  OL  6-3  270  FR  
77  Dan Koppen  OL  6-3  285  so  
78  Augie Hoffman  01.  6-3  303  FR  
80  MikeGuazzo  TE  6-4  2-18  SR  
81  Josh C()rvi  TE  6-4  232  JR  
82  Robert Ellis  flj  6-4  261  SR  
83  ::ihaun Touf  WR  5-11  175  so  
84  Jamal Burke  WR  6-1  201  so  
85  Antonio Garay  DL  o-4  286  JR  
X6  navid K;n;hetta  TE  6-4  255  FR  
87  rrank Misurelli  OE  6-4  260  so  
88  Leonard Bennett  LB  6-0  235  r-R  
8Y  Sean Ryan  TE  6-1  260  JR  
89  K.J. Turksnn  DB  r,.u  201  so  
90  Tom Martin  DE  6-4  260  FR  
91  Robert Bennet  DL  (,-4  295  l'R  
92  Myran Ilunter  DE  (,-3  2JO  FR  
93  Phil Mt•ttling  DE  6-3  2ti0  FR  
94  Kevin Cran('  DT  6-4  270  JR  
95  Justin Hinds  DE  6-4  265  FR  
96  Ry~m Durch  LB  b-4  239  SR  
97  Jm• Tyburrzy  TE/DE  6-6  225  Fl{  
99  ~anGutluit.•  DE  6-4  248  JR  

Friday, November 10, 2000 The Observer . EYE ON THE ENEMY page 5 
Eagles look for win with Hasselbeck-less offense 
By KERRY SMITH Sports Editor 
In th,~ college earners of the players that will slep on the field at Notre Dame Stadium Saturday, there has not been a rivalry more heated than the Notre" Dame-Boston College baltle. 
Even though Notre Dame bolds an 8-3 series record and enjoys a No. 11 national rank­ing, while Boston College remains unranked and strug­gling_ with the loss of its star quarterback Tim Hasselbeck, Saturday's game promises to be close if history proves cor­rect. 
"We're going to once again just focus on our perfor­'mance,''. Davie said. "I don't think motivation will be the issue this week. It's a big foot­ball game." 
Two years ago, tho Irish made a key defensive stand at lhf' goal lin<-i on the final play of' the game to hold on to a 3 I ­26 win. 
Last year, it was the Eagles' turn to soar. Despite an Irish fourth-quarter rally the Eagles hung on to :0-29 win as the sec()nds drained off the cl()ck. 
This year, a Bowl Championship Series bid remains on the line for the Irish and the Eagles arc hun­gry to tear down their over­achieving rival. 
The Eagles come to Notre Dame Stadium with a b-3 record and a new starting quarterback. 
Veteran Hasselbeck sprained his knee in the second quarter of Boston College's 31-3 win over Temple, but the Eagles have an able replacement in backup Brian St. Pierre. 
"[St. Pierre] throws the ball well. He's pretty mobile," Davie said. "We recruited hini 
St. Pierre has come in games this year, nothing seems to have clrnnged. Who knows what they'll do, but I don't see it changing very significantly." 
St. Pierre took the ma_jority of snaps during the prPseason when Hasselback was sidelined because of surgery and has played in every contest during the last two seasons. The sophomore has complf~ted 30 of 45 pass attempts for 369 yards and two touchdowns. 
While St. Pierre looks to con­tinue Ilasselbeck's record as signal caller; the rest or the Eagles' offense is preparing to ste·p up its play to take down the Irish. 
Sophomore William Green leads the Eagles on the ground, rushing for 1,005 yards and scoring 1:-l touchdowns. Wido receiver D"drick DeWalt has also made a mark for the offense with :32 receptions for 620 yards and seven touch­downs. 
Those numbers C()ncern Davie, whose defense has not performed at its peak of late. 
"It's kind of embarrassing, first of all, to give up points and yards kind of in bushels the way we've done it," Davie said. "... We can't win if we keep.. doing that. It's a con­cern. 
Boston College's defense finds its strength in free safety HaMon Johnson, who leads the team with 69 tackes. Heading the team with six sacks, defen­sive ·end Sean Guthrie will look to shut down quarterback Matt LoVecchio and the Irish offense. 
Davie knows his team will have to perform at its peak to edge the Eagles and bolster its season rncord to 7-2. 
"We've got our hands full," Irish head coach Bob Davie said. "They're a high-exf'cution team; they don't make mis­takes; they don't beat them­selves." 
. 
Location: Chestnut Hill, Mass. . Boston College defeated Notre 

. 
Enrollment: 14,600 Dame to spoil a chance at an Irish


fast facts 
. Founded: 1863 national title in 1993. ABOUT . Colors: Maroon and Gold . Boston College and Notre Dame 
. Nickname: Eagles are the only two Div.-1 Catholic
BOSTON COLLEGE 
. Conference: Big East universities playing college football. 


AROUND THE NATION 
page 6 A LOOK AT THIS WEEKEND'S COi.LEGE fOOTBAH ACTION Friday, November I 0, 2000 
AP poll  
team  record points  
1  Oklahoma  8·0  1,774  
2  Miami (Fla.)  7-1  1,684  
3  Florida State  9-1  1,633  
4  Nebraska  8-1  1,512  
5  Florida  8-1  1,499  
6  Oregon  '1-1  1,429  
7  Washington  8-1  1,371  
B  Virginia Tech  8-1  1,260  
9  Purdue  7-2  1,196  
10  Oregon State  8-1  1,127  
11  NOTRE DAME  6·2  863  
12  Northwestern  7-2  839  
13  Ohio State  7-2  819  
14  Georgia  6-2  727  
15  Missi~ippi St.  6-2  707  
16  Kansas Slate  8·2  673  
17  Clemson  8-2  584  
18  TCU  7-1  571  
19  Texas  7-2  527  
20  Michigan  6-3  426  
21  Soulh Carolina  7-2  353  
22  Auburn  7-2  342  
23  Texas A&M  7-2  328  
24  Georgia Tech  6-2  220  
25  Southern Miss  6-2  217  

ESPN/USA Today poll 

ream record points 
1 Oklahoma 8-0 1.474 2 Miami (Fla.) 7-1 1,403 3 FloridB Stale 9-1 1,352 4 Florida 8-1 1,272 5 Nebraska 8-1 1,265 6 Washington 8·1 1,139 7 Oregon 8-1 1,121 8 Virginia Tech 8-1 1,081 9 Purdue 7-2 935 10 Oregon State 8-1 886 11 Kansas Stale 8-2 807 12 NOTRE DAME 6-2 655 13 Georgia 6-2 634 14 Ohio State 7-2 604 
-,s-.. 588
Cfemson 8·2 16 Mississippi St. 6·2 579 17 TCU 7•1 518 18 Northwestern 7-2 470 19 Texas 7-2 462 20 Colorado State 8·1 380 21 Michigan 6-3 312 22 Southern Miss 6-2 261 23 Auburn 7-2 252 24 Texas A&M 7-2 206 25 Soulh Carolina 7-2 199 
Observer experts 

Nonrn DAME 
NEBRASKA 
FLORIDA OKLAHOMA 
Season Record 
24-IO 

N0THE DAME NEBRASKA FLOHIDA OKL/\H0MA 
Season Record 
22-12 

• NOTHE DAME KANSAS STATE FL0HIDA OKLAHOMA 
Season Record 
19-15 




GAME OF THE WEEK 

By PEYTON BERG Sports Writer 
On the surface, Saturday's game between the Huskers and the Wildcats doesn't look like much. J\ closer analysis of the infamous Bowl Championship Series poll reveals that this game is critical lo the national championship race. Most observers assume that Oklahoma will play a team from Florida in the Orange Bowl for all the marbles. No. 3 Miami's grievance with No. 2 Florida State is legitimate, given the Hurricanes' 27-24 victory last month. The problem will most likely work itself out when the Seminoles host No. 5 Florida over Thanksgiving weekend. 
llow quickly people have written off the Cornhuskers. With one loss to the No. 1 team in the country, Nebraska is far from elimination. Consider the following scenario: Nebraska beats Kansas State to claim the Big 12 North title. Nebraska then beats top-ranked Oklahoma in the Big 12 Championship. The Florida/Florida State loser will have two losses and drop from the national championship picture. 
Who's left? Nebraska. 

Coach Bill Snyder hoped that Kansas State's 40-30 win over Nebraska in 1998 signaled a power shift in the Big 12. Unfortunately, the Wildcat's penchant to lose late season games has prevented them from win­ning it all. 
This year, Oklahoma's surprising dominance gave Kansas State a rare mid­season defeat aftflr reach­ing No. 2 in the polls. Characteristically, the demoralized Wildcats sub­sequenUy dropped their following game to Texas A&M and eliminated them­selves from the BCS pie· ture. 
OTHER TOP GAMES 
South Carolina at Florida: The remarkable Gamecock revival sits at 7 • 2, but trouble is in the air. South Carolina's SEC schedule was built for early season sur.cess, which they've enjoyed. Now, things get tougher. 
The Gamecocks· defense crar.ked last week, allowing Tennessee to drive down the field for the game-winning score_ After Florid~ this week, they'll play in-state rival Clemson. 
Florida has struggled with teams that can run the football. and USC's Derek Watson comes into Saturday's contest with a 98 yards per game average. Coach Lou Hollz still loves a ground control. time of possession style offense that he employed at Notre Dame. 
Florida also may be caught looking ahead to next week's annual Gators­Seminoles showdown. As usual, the stakes are high. Coach Steve Spurrier continues his maddening quarterback rotation, and sensational freshman receiver Jabar Gaffney is beginning to turn heads. 
Oklahoma at Texas A&M: So long as strength of schedule is a BCS factor, Oklahoma will hold its No. 1 ranking. The latest stop on the Boomer Sooner express is College Station, entertaining their fourth ranked team in five weeks. Consider that the Sooners defeated then No. 5 Texas, then No. 2 Kansas State, then No. 1 Nobraska, and now face current No. 24 Texas A&M. With apologies to the SEC, the Big 12 is this year's premier ·con­ference. Kyle Field is one of the most difficult road venues in college football. The 12th man mystique, the Corps Crazy Cadets, and coach R.C. Slocum's impressive 64-6-1 home record all add up to be what could be a thriller. 
This game will hinge on the quarter­backs: junior college transfor turned Ileisman frontrunner Josh Heupel and ex-minor leaguer Mark Farris. Given Oklahoma's confidence and lethal pass­ing attack. the Aggies must play their best game of the season in order to win. 
Nebraska is now playing with nothing to lose. Michael Vick's ankle injury means that Tim Crouch is currently the best option quarterback in the coun­try. 
Should they beat Kansas Stato, they'll get Oklahoma under pressure at a neu­tral site. 
The last time Nebraska played with nothing to lose was in last year's Fiesta Bowl, when they disfigured defending national champ Tennessee. 
lf Nebraska's defense continues to improve, look for this game to be a tune­up for a rematch with the Sooners. 
around the dial 
Purdue at Michigan State 
1 p.m., !lBC channel 58 
Washington at UCLA 
4 p.m., 11/JC channel 58 
Fresno State at TCU 
3:30 p.m.• FOXSPN 
South Carolina at Florida 
3:30 p.m.• 03S channel 22 
Nebraska at Kansas State 
7 p.m., FOXSPN 

Friday, November l0., 2000 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 7 
defensive line: Legree, special teams: Credit the
quarterbacks: The lm~s of
the inside 

special teams for giv­
Hasselbeck hurts the Weaver, Roberts and 

company have played 
ing the Trish a shot at
Eagles. Lu Vecchio has not 
well since Irons was the BCS. DeWalt is a
put up great numbers but 
injured. BC's run dangerous punt return­
edge 

he's 4-0 as a starter. defense has struggled er and Sutphin and all season. McMyler are good kick­
running backs:



records: 6-2 ers. 
Washington (1,005 
Overall
A.P. rank: 11 

yards) and Green (563
coaches' poll: 12 The Irish had trouble the
EVEN yards) furm a coaching: Finally, Davie formidable duo. vi/hen 
linebackers: Denman has giloen Trish/ans a last few weeks finishing (67), Rotman (50) and
healthy, Jones is reason to "Remember off games. Unlike last records: 6-3 · among the nations· llarrison (43) rank EVEN November.·· O'Brien led year, they are healthy
first. second and fourth

A.P. rank: NR best. the Eagles to a bowl 
and have something
on the Irish in tackles.

coaches' poll: NR qame last year. 
(other than "pride") to

receivers: DeWalt and 
play for. Three more

Burke have combined 
secondary: Notre Dame's

Series Record 
for 55 rr>ceptions. victories will erase some 
unit could not contain

Givens and Cetherall of the memories from a
Notre Dame leads Fleming and Thiessen
give the Irish two 
disastrous 1999 season.

potential hut Driller and intangibles: Hoth teams 
gamebreakers. EVEN Williams are among the 
are in contention for team's best players. bowl games -the Irish 
offensive line: The Ramon Johnson leads ran bring back some Eagles start four the Eagles in tackles. credibility with three seniors and pave the straight wins. way for Washington and Green. 
8-3 


IRISH INSIGHT 
Boston College fans among many who despise Notre Dame 
Acronyms and athletics go together like stupid similes and sports writing. There's the NBA, NFL, NHL, A.CC, IOC, 
USBL, CBA. AHL, AM, XFL... And the BCS. Since Glenn Earl's 
season-saving block against Air Force, conversation on campus has cen­tered on Irish chances of quality­ing for the Bowl Championship Series. 
But even for edu­cated and knowl­edgeable college football fans (rough­ly 0.237 percent of the population}, fig­uring out the BCS possibilities is tougher than dnciphering Daviespeak. 
\,\/hat's a little easier to do is mock Notre Dame. 
Fifty-five Irish haters have taken their gripes with Rockne, Rudy and religion one step further, forming an Internet­based group termed NDS.: 
Notre Dame Sucks. 
Log onto the website ( www.geocities.com/Colosseum/4028/nds. html), type your name, address and rea­son for despising the Irish and you can join this exclusive (?) fraternity. 
Members include: 
. 
Cofounder Paul "Pack-Backer" Arfmann, who writes, "Despite what the media thinks, not everyone worships the Irish; in fact, the Irish make some of us want to puke." 

. 
Paschal Dobbins, who writes, "ND is a media darling just like the unc tarholes (sic). One would get the impression that each is the greatest thing since Jesus." 

. 
fab5 (Chad], who writes, "Their fans refuse to beleive (sic) that they suck. All of Lhe!,r players are cocky. And, Michigan rulos. 

. 
B.awlin Hunter, who writes "Notre dame represents arrogant, snuLty, yankee hegemony.in its purnset (sic) form.~ 

. 
HnskrAngel, who vvrites, "Rudy was the most pathetic movie I've ever seen in my lil'e. ff I see Notre Dame on TV once mrmi T'm going to scream!" 

. 
Brian, who writes, "I think that if they werent (sic) catholic they would be equivalent to North EastBrn Montana community college for the poor and dis­ablnd.'' 

. 
Hay Baylor Bear who writes. "They ar0 vfowed by some with god-like status. Never has the image and hype been so disparate wiLh tho realiLy. I HATE EM!" 


Easy with the CAPS LOCK. Mr. 11aylor Bear. Your point is very clear. 
A suggestion for those who do not real­izP that therP exist tens of thousands ol' Hay Baylor lfoar-types: 
Look around campus this weekend as the New England Jesuits invade the Bend. 


Ask anyone dad in some mixture of brown, maroon and gold and whose B(A)C exceeds 0.10. 
Bet the phrases "cocky", "arrogant", and "loved by the media" will come up when BC fans describe their Holy Cross rivals. 
At least one person would disagree with the last word of the prior sentence. 
"BC cares deeply about Notre Dame, but Notre Dame doesn't care about BC," said Boston College coach Tom O'Brien in the Sept. 1 edition of The Boston Globe. "Maybe they will if we beat them a few more times, but right now their rival is USC." 
Prior .to the 1990s, maybe "rivalry" was a stretch. Sure, there was some controversy in 1983. 
During the third year of the Faust regime, the 6-5 Irish beat the No. 13 Eagles 19-18 in the Liberty Bowl. Prior to that game, speculation arose about · whether Notre Dame would even accept a bowl invitation following an unimpressive season. 
Some BC players thought the real rea­son why the Irish considered bypassing the bowl was because they were afraid to lose to the "other" Division 1-A Catholic school. 
But that was an isolated incident. 
Nine years later, hatred for Notre Dame grew to a new high in Beantown. And thus began a rivalry, whether O'Brien or others want to admit it. 
With his team ahead 37 -0 in the third quarter, Lou Holtz called for a fake punt that resulted in a first down. Holtz ratio­nalized the play by noting that he wanted to make sure Penn State (the next week's opponent) prepared for a fake. 
When the Eagles returned in 1993 to play the No. 1 Irish, that one play remained etched in their minds. 
"They really rubbed it in our face the year before," BC kicker David Gordon told The Observer last year. "It was a motivator. Even in the off-season, we were really preparing for them again." 
Every ND and BC fan over 13 years old knows the result. 
Mentioning Uavid Gordon to the Irish faithful is like saying Bucky Deni in front of members ofRed Sox Nation. 
"I don't think you can get any lower than we are now,'' said Irish defensive lineman Jim Flanigan aftnr the 41-39 loss. 
The next season, Notre Dame traveled to Chestnut Hill with Hon {Two lleismans) Powlus at quarterback and a No. 8 rank­ing. The Irish left the Hub with a 30-11 loss and several bruised ego&. 
Another memorabl0 game occurrnd in 1998. Dcke Cooper and the Irish defense stopped Mike Cloud four times in the clos­ing seconds of a 31-26 win. The victory prompted a. catchy nkkname, stolen from a novel written by New England native and Red Sox fan, Stephen King: The 

KEVIN DALUMrThe Observer 

Irish defensive end Tony Weaver leaps to block Eagle quarterback Tim Hasselbeck's pass In Notre Dame's 1999 31-29 loss to Boston College. 
more reason as the Eagles left with a 31­29 victory in their second visit to the expanded Stadium. 
On Saturday, the Catholic War resumes for the ninth i;traight year. 
A loss will shatter Notre Dame's BCS chances. But Irish fans will then have to come up with another interpretation of 
college football's favorite acronym: ­
Boston College Sucks. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those oflhe author and nut necessari­ly those ofThe nbserzwr. 
Stand. 

Then last year, coach Bob Uavie deliv­erect the most unexpeded pep rally scene in recent memory. (A doso second: Brock "Let the Dogs Out" Williams' version of the ilaha Men hit before this year's Stanford game.] 
On the day prior to the Nov. 20 game. l)avie looked over his right shoulder and poinled at a group of rowdy BC fans seat­ed in thP Jovce Center bleachers. 
"That's another reason right there to kick Boston College's ass," Davie said. Davie and thP Irish needed at k•ast mm 
page 8 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 10, 2000 

Store Hours: 

Sunday -Thursday 11 am -2 am 
Friday & Saturday 11 am• 3 am 

----~-~----------------­
2 Dominators 2 Large 1 Topping 1 Topping 
$14.99 $11.99 
·I 

I I I I I I I 
~--------------------------------~---------------~ 

"Our calling is to serve the Lord Jesus in mission not as independent individuals but as a brotherhood." 
(Constitutions of the Congregation of Holy Cross, IV.33) 
ANSWER :-t. TifECALL W 

www.nd.edu/-vocation 
Get a 5' x 8' ND flag today! 
Great for students. 20% discount on S'x 8' ND flag and 10%) discount on all other Items for ND students, faculty and staff with ND photo I.D. 
-

FLAGS INTERNATI.ONAL® 
10845 McKinley Highway Osceola, Indiama 46561 Teltphone: 219-674-5125 Visit us on the web at 
www.flagd.net 
Widest selection of Notre Dame flags and banners in the country. Over 70 varieties of U.S. flags, states and U.S. territories; international flags from around the world. 
Jim Bolinger, '84 -Proprietor 

' 
' ­
' 


