Going to the chapel 
Being maid ofhonor has its drawbacks -like 
Tuesday
getting a dress thaljits. Hear one student's trial. 
Viewpoint . page 11 
APRIL 4, 2000 
THE 


VOlXXX:111 N0.114 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Saint Mary's joins Worker's Rights Consortium 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE  l('ge like Saint rvtary' s ... Thn df'cision 1·omPs in the  cam£' from a working grouµ J'ormed in early Nov1. 111b1!r to  Betsy Station, coordinator for the group and assistant to thfl  wouldn't have a voice." The quantity of Saint Mary's  
'.'lcws W1i1cr  wake  ol.'  Notre  Dam,!'s  inwstigatc Saint Mary's options  president.  "We  very  much  apparel produced also played a  
announcement.  that  the  for joining the anti-swm1tshop  respect Notre Dame's leadflr­ role in the decision.  
Suinl :\lary's Co!Icgn o!Hcially _joi1wd llw 1rntio11widP movti­ Univ1irsity will not join tho WRC bncausc of' a lack of' inf'ormation  movement. Because of Notre Dame's example in tlrn anti­ ship on this issue ... We feel that l'or a small Catholic  "We don't have any licensing agreements," Eldred said.  
nwnl for sweatshop monitoring  a bout liH' organization. Notre  sweatshop  movement.  the  women's college like  Saint  "Many of the larger institutions  
Monday. u1111ou11,·ing lhal Lill'  Dam(',  a member of' tho Fair  College felt sweatshop monitor­ Mary's, membership in the  who  arc  with the  FLA had  
Coll,•gp will  Labor  Association  iFLAl.  ing was a  rnlevant issue to  WHC is the best decision."  lic~msing agreements, giving  
bf't'Ollll'  a  n~q tH•stPcl in f'orma tion abou l  investigate.  Much of the decision  to join  (the FLA!  a  more corporate  
ru11  mf'm­ tn(!lilUl!rship f'rom  tlw WHC  "Hecausc of Notre Dame's  the WRC focused  on the ability  strur,turc."  
twr in  ttw  including budget and mission  leadership,  S  a  i  n  t  In  addition  to  suggesting  
Work 11 r · s Highls (:onsortium (WHCl.  statmrn•nt information. The ofli­cial suu1cfl from the University is that the WHC is not an option until this information is  because we are lrnre and because of our relationship  "This is an example ofa case where one decision fits Notre Dame best, and  Mary's would have to make an impact on  membership in the WRC, the group also proposed a code of conduct for Saint Mary's sub­contractors, the implementa­ 
The WHC. developed Eldredbv tlw  obtained. The difference between the WHC and tlrn FLA is their  with Notre Dame, it was important to  another decision fits Saint Mary's best."  the organi­zation, Maureen  tion of a permanent task force to continue investigation and educational initiatives to widen  
u· n  i t c  d  approach to a  manufacturer's  look at." Eldred  Capillo, stu­ support and  awareness  on  
StuclPnts Against Sweatshops in  violation of organization stan­ said. "But it was  Marilou Eldred  dent repre­ campus.  
rnnsultation with workPrs and human rights groups, aims to  dards. The FLA advocates a collaborative effort between  not the only rea­son we started  president  sentative on the working  The administrative council approved the WRC membership  
invesligatP conditions in faclo­ organizations and corporations  to look at this. It  group, said:  March 29 but held approval on  
riPs producing apparPl for col­ lo correct violations. Tim WRC  is part of Catholic social teach­ "The WRC is the best organi­ other initiatives until later in  
legcis and uniwrsitins.  encourages full public disclo­ ing, and it certainly supports  zation for Saint Mary's to join  the semester.  
"It  sciPmNI  to  us.  as  WP  sure• of working conditions.  the social justice mission."  because it is in the organiza­ "We asked that the adminis­ 
learnPd mor!' about tlw WHC:.  "This is an example of a case  Members  of the  working  tional stages," Capillo said.  '1As  trative council decide  on  the  
that tlw WHC tits tlw size ol' the  whf,re one decision fits Notre  group hope for continued coop­ a  small liberal arts college,  WRC by April 1, because the  
Colli,ge," said Colleg(' prnsidPnt  Dame best. and another deci­ eration with Notre Dame in the  Saint Mary's will be heard  WRC had a nationwide push for  
Marilou Eldrnd. "Bncaust! tlw  sion !'its Saint Mary's best,"  light against sweatshops.  because of the structure. The  colleges to join by April 1,"  
WHC  has a grnssrools struc­ Eldred said.  "I hope that Notre Dame will  FLA is a more top-down organi­ Station said.  
ture. this is important l"or a col- The decision lo join the WRC  rnspect  our decision," said  zation, where Saint Mary's  see WRC/page 4  

Reskin: discrimination has psychological origins 
By CHRISTINE McINTYRE 
News ~ 1riter 
Discrimination is not intm1tion­al. but rallwr lhe rnsult of dis­tortPd social psychologi!'s that becoml' rnH·onscious and auto­mati(', said Harbara l{pskin. pro­fpssor Ill' S<H'i1Jl1Jgy at llarvard Uniwrsity. whill' sp(•aking to stu­dPnts and l'a('ultv about lwr t!w­oriPs of' discrin1ination in tlw workµlacP on Monday. 
"Employment discriminalion based on s1•x and rac'.I' 1wrsists on high il'V!'ls. It is not surprising that thPrP is substantial amount of' discrimination in tlw work­place\" said HPskin. 
Arcording lo lkskin. a major problt>m in unchirstanding dis­crimination is !ho pPrsisti·11cP of t.lw 'rar,ist/scxist pig' theory. 
''It slarlcd in the 1960s and 1970s whnn poople bt•li1wnd dis­rrimination f'Xisterl bC'caus1• [WO­pll' arc racist and sexist. Th is was nvidrnt in thn Civil Hights era when disr.riminalion blos­sonrnd into tho nation's con­sciousrn~ss. Hada! discrimination was cl(\arly mntivatl'd by ha.cl altitudes toward a group," Hoskin said. 
Now. however, "it is hard to believe that this is all rlriv1\n hy biases. If tho 'rac.:ist/scxist pig' theory is wrong, tlrn rornedics arn wrong," she said. 
Tlw fault ol' this theory !ins in tlw assumption that nn individ­ual's fcdi11gs toward a certain group motivate one to discrimi­nate or favor that group. Reskin believes thorn is a more accurate and comprelrnnsivf! approar.h to dis1-rimination. 
"Within micTosPconds of meet­ing someone, we automatically categorize that pt>rson. especial­ly ii' thny depart from our norm. It is an 'us versus them' mentali­ty. f"av.oring those most like us. WP do not do it consciously, it is a functional nwchanism," Ileskin said. 
Basically, pc\oplr. tend to catc­gorizP by t\vo groups -the 'in' group or the ·out' group. uncon­sciously based on their similari­ti r.s to tlir. pnrson. "Thr. 'in' group members are more attrac­tive to the person and lhrJslm] is morn apt to trust tlrnm than 'out' members," Heskin said. 
The contines ol' these catego­rizes am very rigid. Once we cat­egorize, it is extremely hard to f'orget the categories and who lits in which one. "Stereotypes are gcnnral!y socially shared. They are overlearned because we are ovortaught them, even if Wf\ disagree with them. Even if wo don't want to stereotype, it is dillicult to stop," she said. 
Employment organizations can help der,rease discrimination in the workplace. cspt>cially dis­crimin~tion based on sex a.nd race. In one study, blind audi­tions wPrn held for available positions in a symphony. The 
see RESKJN/page 4 

Dalloway's fate in question 
By KATIE McVOY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's administrators are currently determining what to do with the old Dalloway's clubhous11. 
Because of the Master Plan, the old building will no longer be used as a clubhouse for College and community groups. A new Dalloway's is being constructed to house these activities. The old Dalloway's is now being consid­ered as part of a land grant to the Congregation of the Holy Cross. but no definite plans have been made. 
"There has been some discus­sion about some r,xchange or purchase of the land," said Keith Dennis, vice president for finance and administration. "Part of the discussion is whether or not the clubhouse would go back to the congrega­tion." 
John Kovach. head of archives at Saint Mary's, wrote a proposal for another plan for the use of Dalloway's. "The question that no one has been able to answer is why [Dalloway's] has to be torn down," the proposal reads. "The answer is: It doesn't." 
see DALLOWAY'S/page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Let's Talk 
About Sex 
Most people have no doubt seen those t-shirts that llll the front say, "Sex Kills" and on tho back react, "Then COJTIP. to Notre Danrn and LivP Forever." Whilr mildly amusing, this message is incorrect. 
Sex happens.hem. 
t\ lot. 
Contrary to tho predomi­
nant male-centric opinion. sex does not equal penrtra­
tion. Prom kissing to coitus, sex encompasses a broad 
range of activity that does 
not necessarily have to 
include intercourse to be 
consider<'d sex. It is this vi<'w 
that penetration and the 
male orgasm must he 
involn1d in the definition and 
practice of sex that has con­
tinued to suppress women's 
scxuuHty and hindered gen­
dAr rnlalions on campus. 
God forbid women should havo a sexuality beyond drunken kisses, and even worse they should enjoy it. Cod forbid they shoulrl break thn \.1adonna/whore dichotomy and simply be natur­al women. God forbid they should f'clucate them­st>lves about the kinds of dPcisions that thev haw• the right lo make' about their bodies and tlinir snxuality. 
And God forbid thew should talk about it. 
Hmv many pt!Ople do you know who spt~ak of sex only in terms ofhooklng up and getting some? Rarnly among students is sex spoken of' bevond thes<' crude terms. as if anv kind of morn se,~ious sexual activity would be sc)tnehow unac­ceptable to verbalize: The mentality around hen• seems lo bP that if you only hook up at IIeartland when you're drunk. you're still a good Catholic. But if you (gasp!) spend the night somewhere you'rn not supposed to and do things undrn· the covers with someone you love or cam about, you are a bad person and need to go to confession. 
Wt' don't want to acknowledge that we am sexual people. We don't wantto talk about the reality or sexual suppression here. or the frustra­tion of double standards. Why'? Whv do we allow the false image of purity her~ to prevent us from talking about what's happening in our lives? Your roommates are probably not as pristine as you think. or as they might like you to think. I know too many people who are afraid to talk about sex for fear they will be unfairly judged. They are not necessarily seeking advice on how to give a blow job. but are earnestly wondering abou1 serious isstrns like AIDS. STDs. birth con­trol and abortion. 
It is absolutely shameful that Notre Dame and Health Services· refuse to make information 011 these and other issues availablr or offer help on whern to go to get this information. Just ber,ause someone informs him or herself about birth con­trol pills or condoms does not mean he or shA is engaging in sexual activity. In fact. the more information vou have about sex. the less likclv you will have: it bccaUSP of the serious responsi­bility that comes with it. Going in blind and na'ive is so murh more dangerous. 
The silence about sex that permeates our campuses has got to be broken. It's unlwallhy, unnatural. and people am getting both physically and emotionally hurt. Yes, sexuality is a gift from God to be saved for marriage. But that is an ideal. not realitv. Yes, this is a Calholir, universi­ty. but that doesn't mean we should be silent. God also gave us voices and cars. 
It's about time wr, use them. 
ThP z,icws expressed in the Inside Column are those of lhe aulftor and not necessarily those ofThe Ohs€'ruer. 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Lrnra Rompf Sam Derheimer Kare Nagengast Chris Score Kiflin Turner 
Graphics 

Sports 
Kristin forcier Molly McVoy Production Viewpoint Brian Kessle1 
A.J. Boyd Lab Tech Peter Richardson 
The Ob,crvcr (USPS '\9'J 2-4000) is publi,hed Monday rhrough Friday except duri,,g cx:tm an<l van.tion period.s. The Ohs{'"rver ioi; a m~mber of rhc­A.,!:oci:J.{~d Pres!>. All r~producrion righrs 'Jrt> re,;erved. 

The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, April 4, 2000 

QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
"We'd like to "We had more people "You have to take "We went to the hos-be a legitimate in the room !during! your hat r~lfto them. pita[; we interviewed 
organization in the the .first halfhour They played well the victim. At the eyes ofthe school. th.an we e:r,pected defensiriely and shut victim's request It'd make things all day .. down our oj]ensive. there's been no 
,. 

a lot easier. but we never quit. " furtlrnr follow up... 
Father Jim Lies Jeremy Bauer Zahm rector, on the bone David Graves Rex Rakow OUTreach co-president marrow drive held in honor Irish sophomore, on the NIT director of Notre Dame of Conor Murphy championship game versus Security/Police on a Wake Forest reported aquaintance rape 
Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
9 arrests follow milder 'Midnight Yell' at UCLA 
LOS ANGELES "LAPD is working with us on throughout finals week. UCLA students participating in "LAP[) is working with us 011 this,
this. fmt UCPD is in the lead

"Midnight Yc\ll" last quartf'r burnml but UCPD is the lead tonight," less and shouled more -but still Int Grennstein said Wodnnsday ol' linals
tonight. I think studentsfeel off Pnough steam lo draw many more comfortable with us." week. "I think students fool more police of1icers into Westwood. comf'ortablc with us." Although studenls lit snveral firn­Besides the traditional yelling
Nancy Greenstein

crackers, a lighter l111id-soaked rug shortly af'ter midnight, aboul 100 and a flare, university police officers UCPD director of community services stud,~nts emerged 1\arly Thursday wnrn quick in rnspnnding lo tho morning of finals week. setting off r.vents just af'tPr midnight on March several firecrackers and igniting a 23 and March 24. arrnsti11g a total of' rug doused in lighter fluid. nine people. detainr,d wlwn people began buming Also. a spontaneous mosh pit 
Police also round a potentially couches and throwing objects at lirn­formed after f'irst-year student cxplosivt, device on an apartnrnnt fightnrs and LAPD ofllcors who had Bradford Hill brought his guitar and rooftop on Thursday night of' l'inals converg1id on tho scene. amplilier out to tlw curb. wm~k. Nancy Greenstein, UCPD director llill was later cited by UCPD offi­
These evlrnts were part of of community servicns, said the rnla­cers because, according to him, they "Midnight Y1,ll," which has beconw a tive mildness of wintf'r quarter's yell said his equipnrnnt was blocking the UCLA tradition as a mnans nf' blow­comparnd to !'all quarter is largely sidewalk. ing off stpam during finals week. attributable to a deal workod out Greenstein said winter quartPr's 
During fall quartm·, 20 pnopln wr.re betwer,n UCPD and 1.t\l'D, allowing events ran more smoothly bocause of arrested and a handful w1\rn the f"ornrnr to control the events university and student cooperation. 
Columbia Senate votes to join WRC 
NEW YOHK 

The Columbia Universily s,,nate voted unanimously on Friday to join the Workers Hights Consortium (\VRC) in what activists and administrators alike described as a major step forward in the fight against sweatshops_ The resolution's passage with little debate did not conrn as a surprise artcr it won the endorsement of Columbia Students Against Sweatshops (CSAS) and passed unanimously in com­mittee. The resolution makes Columbia one of the founding members of the WIK, a nmvly-f'ormnd orga­nization of universities and non-governmental organi­zations (NGOsJ that ovPrsees tho monitoring of work­ing conditions at apparel factories around the world. By joining now, Columbia gains the right to send a del­egate to the WHC's official founding conforencc on April 7. The resolution also maintains the University's memborship in the Fair Labor t\ssociation (PLA), an alternative oversight organization that Columbia joined last March. The PLA is tho more established of' the two bodies, with over 130 member universities, and differs from the WR.C in its inclusion of manufac­turing companies as memlrnrs. 
NCAA leaves MSU classrooms empty 
EAST LANSJ;\JG, Mich. 
l'rof'essors teaching Monday evening and Tur,sday morning classes could Im teaching to a lot more empty snats than usual because of Michigan Stale University's chance of winning the NCAt\ Championship Monday night. To deal with intense student interest in the late-night, history-making game, somP prol'ossors may well join their students at some place other than class. although MSU offi­cials don't plan to cancel classes. "It's putting the cart bnfore the horse to make plans before the gamn," said Sue Nichols of' MSU Media Communications. "l have heard no discussion of classes bning canceled. But we're probably going to have to wait until [today! on that ono." Ilistory Profossor Hognr Rosentretcr said thn gamn is impor­tant either way -win or lose -and all students who want to watch "history in the making" should be able to. Of' the 125 students polled in his Monday night Civil War class, Bosentreter said only four stu­d!rnts said they would be in class tlrn night of' the championship gamn. "l decided for the first time in my tenure to cancel class," Hosr,ntretPr said. 



LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forcl'.ast for daytime condirions and high lem!)t!ratmes 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon.Tuesday, Apr. 4. 

40s Lines separate high temperature zones. for the day 
H L Tuesday Wl/JLJ,Y 40 27 Wednesday ~ 54 40 
Thursday ~ 61 44 
408 v FRONTS: 
,,...,... ................


Friday Q 63 41 
C 2000 Acc:uWeather, Inc . COLD WARM $TATIONAHY PttlSUffl; 
... \ " '-\ 
I"',,

® © D . c:::J CJ D 'h-=" ~ If}#(&
. .
High Low Showou Raln T•storma flurrlea Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy

Saturday ~ 53 33 
V,ao A.~OClflled Pr9$S 

('./;.
'f,.; 
Atlanta 55 35 Las Vegas 86 61 Portland 56 42 Baltimore 64 42 Memphis 54 40 Sacramento 72 48 Boston 68 49 Milwaukee 45 32 Sl. Louis 49 39

Q,Q-~9.'8Q~ ~ u 
Chicago 45 32 New York 63 47 Tampa 76 52 Via Associated Press Grapli,csNer 
$howt;rS T~storms Ra;n Flvmes Snow Ice St1nny Pr. Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 74 51 Philadelphia 64 43 Wash DC 65 44 
I 
I
l ________ _ 
Tuesd,1y, April 4, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Members discuss possible restrictions on hall elections 
By HELENA RAYAM 
News Writtr 

Sonw hall <•lpc•tion matPrials may nr.nd rPgulatinn, said Coalition Council rt'prnsc!tllativP Michanl FiPrro al Monday's Campus Life Council IJl('l'li11g. 
··Both g,niclPr and racP ethnicity lrnv,, b,wn ust'd in l1all clo('lions," said Finrro. Showing a campaign pos1cr that made a joke about !Im l'nlish and Gnrrnans. Fierro quos­tiotH'd tl11• appropriatnness of the job• 
"Ignorance goes beyond historical minority groups sud1 as Blacks and llispanirs." ht' said. Fierro also said that sonw campaign posters or flyers !11.1\P sl111wt•d dof'aming picturns of 
wunwn. 
Fierro said somo maturials found in hall t>,lt>ctions would not bf' alloW<)d in campus-wide elections because of restrictions. 
KPlly Folks. chairman of the judicial board said, "\VH'V<' actually had com­plaints lhal !the guidelines for cam­pus-widP <'icctions] werr too rnstrie­tivc." 
In tlw rnsidencc halls. the issue ol' what materials arc d11cmcd inappro­priate is at. tlw discretion or thP rec­tor. Varying opinions lead to <lifr<'rent levels of tolerance for certain cam­paign materials. 
"Although some of their ideas may bP ins<>nsitive. I'm just cautious about censoring people's ideas," said off­eampus senator Pat Foy. "An election is a frc(i expn•ssion or ideas." 
St. Edward's rnctor Father Davn Schnidler said that he allows somn posters to go up while restricting oth­ers, but prefnrs that the students make the choice. Ile suggest<id that dorms make more use or the judicial board rPprespntatives in their dorm so that uniformity is established "without curtailing free speech." 
"I think we need to be sensitive clearly, but hopefully the voters do ­thaL" said Bill Kirk, assisurnt vice prt\sident of Student Affairs. 
Although he said that he wanted studtrnts to mak<' their own judg­ments about the campaign posters Kirk was pleased with proceedings. 
'Tm delighted you'ro making this point to prevt1nt that the standards become lower because this is so com­monplace." 
In other (LC news: 
. 
Members examined the process for making duLac revisions. Kirk said lliat tbere were many ways to make changes but that Hes.idem:e Lil"e rec­ommends thfl changes in the discipli­nary process. CLC members also dis­cussed whether faculty mcmb0rs shoul.d have inpul in cerlain duLac dauses. 

. 
The Committee for the First Year or Studies and the Advisory Committee on the Disabled have added student members as a result of th<' resolutions drafted tbat requested stud(~nl membership on the::;e com­mittees. 

. 
The Lniversity will implement the diversity pra('ticum for transfer stu­dents. This will be a mandatory diversity awareness presentation or meeting as part of the transfer orien­tation at the beginning of the semes­ter. It is not certain that the program will be ready to begin in the fall semester of 2000. 

. 
Vice president of Student Affairs, Father Poorman, has received the CLC resolution on parking in basket­ba 11 courts and wil I research the issue. "Enforcement becomes the problem," said Kirk, referring to parking lots with standard hours when parking is not permitted. 



MARY CALASHffhe Observer 
Assistant vice president of Student Affairs Bill Kirk and other memebers of the CLC discuss hall elections' campaign materials which have been offensive to some students. "I think we need to be sensitive clearly, but hopefully the voters do that," Kirk said. 
CLARIFICATION 

In Monday's Observer, an article about a reported rape on campus stated: "Since the victim has declined to press charges against the alleged attack­er, the Office of Students Affairs will not take any action." 
The article should have made it clear that the victim declined to press charges against the alleged attacker a'nd requested that Student Affairs not take any action. Student Affairs complies with the wishes of the victim in all rape cases. 
The Observer regrets the error. 

Notre Dame 
Earth Day Festival 2000 
sponsored by: Students for Environmental Action; Dept. of Biology and the Center for Environmental Science and Technology 
APRIL 9TH 2-6PM 






STONEHEDGE 
(rain place: Stepan Center) 
-Native Arr1ericar1 -Free:Food _Dance Group 
-Garr1es 
(sponsored by NASADD) 
-Bands 
-Bi.ke CH11ic InformatioriaJ. · (so br-ing your bikes) Booths 
NOTRE DAME FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 



JL~~tf 
TIMBERLAKE 
Directed by Reginald Bain 
Wed., April 12, 7:30 p.m. 
Thurs., April 13, 7:30 p.m. 
Fri., April 14, 7:30 p.m. 
Sat, April 15, 7:30 p.m. 
Sun., April 16, 2:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved Seats $9 Seniors $8 All Students $6 
Tickets are available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. 
MasterCard'and Visa orders call 631-8128 
r page 4 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 4, 2000 
Reskin 
continued from page I 
musicians auditioned behind a screen and all over signs of sex or race were bidden. In this case, womf'n were 50 pcrrcnt rnore likely Lo be solocte<l, basnd on thei.r talent alone, rather if their gender was revealed. 
"In ge1wral. the bottom lin0. is to rmnove discrf'tiun fr01'i1 tlrn decision makers. Then there is less likely to be discriminatory outcomes," said Reskin. 
Employers can also reduce discrimination by creating more diverse groups of workers. "The morfl diverse a group is, the less likely we are to put the people in eatcgories," said Heskin. 
Reskin also said that divcrsitv training doPs not alleviate dis·­crimination. "It is a fad that is sweeping American corpora­tions. However, it primes stereo­typing and does not make things better, it makes it worse." 
Dalloway's 
continued from page 1 
Kovach draflcd u proposal that he submitted to president Marilou Eldred, vice president and dean of faculty Karen Ristau and Sister Bernice 1-lollenhorst. director of the Cushwa-Leighton Library. This proposal suggested that the space be used as a new home for the archives, which currently exceed the space allot­ted by the College. 
"By the summer of 1999, the 
physical storage capacity of the 
archives was exceeded," Kovach 
wrote. 
Kovach proposed two solutions for the space problem the archives are currently facin-g. The first involved building a new structure that would accommo­date a new archives center. In addition, the building couId house a museum and research center that would allow for the growth of the archives. However. this solution seemed unlikely to bPcome a reality because of the cost. 
"The second and more logical solution would be able to carry the growth of the archives for at least two decades and would involve the move to an existing open space on the College grounds," the proposal said. 
This exisling space is Dalloway's. "It would be an ideal setting (being a historical build­ing) to house the history of the College." 
Dalloway's is twice the size of' the current housing for the archives, which would give Also, accountability must be 
given to tbe decision-maker. "If 
sonrnone is told to choose a can­
didatn based on cnrtain attribut­
es, they are less likely to use 
their stereotypes," lfoskin said. 
Government can be a factor in lessening discriminalion in the workplact>. "(;overnment must curtail discrimination. Employers must know that they cannot do whatmmr thny want," said TTcskin. 
To do this, govPrnment must ban 'sdective inaction· in which they work to eliminatn discrimi­nation of one group, but contin­uos to permit discrimination of another. R(iskin said, "Government should require courts lo recognize the psycho­logical origins of discrimina­tion." 
Heskin's lecture, "!lace and Sex lliscrimination in Employment: What's Government Got Lo Do with It," marked the first of' a week-long series by 11eskin on her studies of discrimination. 
ample space tor the existing col­
lm:tion, offices, and continued 
growth. 
In addition lo creating room for 
the archives, Kovach believes 
that the move would have addi­
tional advantages. 
According to the proposal, 
"The location of the Clubhouse 
would open up more ofan oppor­
tunity to cooperate and work in 
conjunction with the congres­
sional archives in Bertrand Hall; 
the move would allow the· 
College's rare book collection to 
take over the former archives 
area. which would allow greater 
potential for the growth of that 
already impressive collection." 
Kovach would like to see the curmnt archives used as a store­house for the rare books collec­tion as well as a reading room. Kovach has not been given an answer as to when he will hear back from the Colleg(1 about his proposal. The members of the Congregation of the Holy Cross will have some say in the deci­sion, so the decision will not be left totally to the College. 
Kovach will continue to work on getting his proposal passed. 'Tm going to continue to swing at these two strike pitches," he said. 
In his proposal Kovach said, "There is a poster which came out during the Snsquicentennial which has the phrase, 'Honoring Tradition. Pioneering Change.' What better wav to illustrate this to not only tout the 'Pioneering Change' with the Master Plan but also reaffirm, 'Honoring Tradition' by finding a new use for a part of the history of the college." 
ATTENTION GRADUATING SENIORS!!!!! Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions is accepting applicants for the position of Admissions Counselor -As pa11 of the Undergraduate Admissions stat{ the Counselor is expected to make an important contrihution to the recruitment and selection of the freshman class by managing relations with the prospective applicants, their rarents, high school personnel, and alumni in an assigned geographic area. -Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel, communications within the geographic area, assessment and evaluation ofapplications. and grmrp'individual information sessions on campus. Additional responsibilities, including the possibility of diversity recruitment, will be assigned by the Director of External Operations and the Assistant Provost for Enrollment. Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and familiarity with all aspects of student Ii fe at Notre Oame. Essential qualities include strong communication and organizational skills, enthusiasm, diplomacy. and the willingness to work long hours including many evenings and Saturday mornings. -Preferred start date is July L 2000 Apply with resume, cover letter, salary history and reference information by April 14, 2000 to: Admissions Counselor Job #0007-101 Department of Human Resources University ofNotre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556  

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
PROVOST'S DISTINGUISHED VISITING LECTURER 

PUBLIC LECTURE 
"AFFIRMITIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT:MYTHSAND REALITIES " 


BARBARA RESKIN 
Professor of Sociology at Harvard University 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5, 2000 
7:30 PM 
HESBURGH CENTER AUDITORIUM 
RECEPTION TO FOLLOW IN GREAT HALL 
SPONSORED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF SOCIOLOGY 
Bar.barll Reskin is a Professor of Sociology at Hai:va:rd University. She has p.iblishe::l several doze1 articles and chapters and six !XXlks on sex and race inequality in J.al.:or rrerkets. Recent books include The Realities of Affirmative Action in flmlm,rent 
(1998). Women and Men at 1,mk (with Irene Fadavic, 1994), and J.ob Que@s, C:fltler Cueue,s· Explaining: WQrerl s Inroads into Mole Qcolt);)tion.5 (with Patricia Roos, 1990). Professor Reslcin has been Vice President of the American sociological Association, Study Director of the Ccmnittee on Wanen, s ~loyrnent at the National Academy of Scierces, artl h3s served as an expert witness in discrimination cases. 


BENEFTI' CONCERT 
To help terminally ill area children live their dream..s:! 
Featuring the music ofContemporary Christian recording artists ""Tatum & Leniski" performing songs from their recently released CD ••Help me to Believe.•• Plus guests. Music in a lively and entertaining enviro.ru:nent! 
Good music, Good cause! 
April ~,. 2000,. 8:ottp:u>. O'"Law:tghDo ~f:Orlun:a, St; .Mary's College 

. Make-A-Wish Foundation• ofIndiana, Inc. 
$10.50 at the door In advance, with student ID $8.00 
Tickets available at: Family Christian Stores, and the O'LaugWin Auditorium box office. For more infromation call: 219.234.1262 
e-mail: tat~unlen1sk1((iJ.hriinc.co1n 
thoroughly study the recom­mendations. Some of' them sug­
WRC 
gest that Wf~ would rmtcr agrrw­ments wilh subcontractors, and
continued from page I 
we neodcd time to evaluate 
that," Eldred said. 
Decisions on the other recom­Station, Capillo, studm,t rep­mendations wcr() postponnd for resentative Callie Kushi and more discussion, Eldred said. bookstore manager Sandy 
"We wanted more Lime to VanderWerven will attend the WTTC's founder's meeting April 
7. While introducing Saint Mary's to the consortium for the first time, Eldred also hopm; the group will be able to edu­cate administrators. 
"We thought that after the meeting, we might be able to gain addilional information to help us makn these decisions." 

·-~---­




orld 
I ¦ 

Tuesday, April 4, 2000 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Rebels killed attempting to reclaim land 
COLOMHO, Sri Lanka 
/\ fresh military opr>ration aguinst Tamil Tigers holding small pockets in the northern .laffna prminsula left at least 25 rebels and four soldiers dead, an army spokesman said Mondav. FourttH~n other rPbds and one sol­cliPr w·nrl' killrd in otlwr battles near the sa1111• a.rna. lw said. It was one of tlrn highest dl'ath tolls in r!'CPnt wc1\ks as the army tried l11 wrnst rnntrnl ol' small arnas sciwd ·bv the gw•rrillas in fi1•rct> battlns sinl'u March. Iii tht1 last six months. l.lH' n•bels havt> bNm lrying to tak,· back tlw Eh•phant Pass, a narrow strip of land that links lh<• northern Jaffna l'1•11i11sula wilh lhP rPsl of' th0 country in the south. Soldiers trup1wd 7S mililanls in a mili­1arv ,·ordon and kil!l•d ~:i or them wlwn thev tri;,r1 to bn•at'.11 th<· iwrurity nPt, said spokPs1nan Col. R. l'. \". itana. 
Livestock epidemic poses threat to S. Korean economy 
SEOUL. South Korea 
A provincial governnmnt in South Koma indf'finitl'lv dosPcl all livestock markets Monday amid increasing !'cars that the deadly foot-and-mouth diSPUSI\ could become a national l'pidcrnic. Kyonggi province, which surrounds but does not include t!w capital Seotil. said it will close all 32 livestock mar­kPls lo prcvenl f'urther sprnad of the fatal ail­nwnl. Otlwr provinces and cities are expected to follow su il. officials said. "The problem requires an all-out government cITort to be controlled. ll threatcms lo becomP a national cpidemic," Agriculture Minister Kim Sung­hoon lllld a Cabinet mPcling. Foot-and-mouth diseasP is highly communicabll) and can kill rarriPr animals and ruin entire beef and milk-1·ow herds. It cannot be passed on to peuplP. That prompted .Japan and South KorPa to susp,md imports of' beef and pork from each other. 
U.S. resolution condemns Haider, Freedom Party 
WASIIINGTON 
Tlw llouse approved a resolution Monday condemning the "anti-democratic. racist and Xl'nophobic views" expressed by Joerg Haider and other leaders of the right-wing Freedom Party that joined an 1\ustrian government coalition last February. The non-binding res­olution, passed by voice, rxprnssed "profound regret and dismay" that the Freedom Party would play a major role in the new govern­ment and urged the White House and the administration to make clear to Austria U.S. roncern about thr inclusion of a party associ­alc>d with x1mophobic, racist policies. It noted that Haider in tlw past has praised Adolf' Hitler's employment policy, called Waffen SS vPll'ra.ns "dN:enl pt>opl1•" and decried, in Pxpressions us,•d by Nazi leaders, the "over­l'oreignizalion" of Austria. turbed by events taking place in Austria. 
•iffiitiliitt&WM
Dow AMEx: 
978.00 
JONES -!7·03 'iastlaq:
+300.0 
.t223.68 
-3-19.15 
NYSE: 
~ 
LJ 
659.66 
-11.9{, 

S&I' 500: Composite 1505.97 
Volume:11221.90 ~1.3CJ I ,22 7,200,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 
cou...-r TICn:Jl ' C"'-""t ic~ £!Yd 
KICJIO.SOIT COU 
~sco :rrn!'JU 
CMC!,,11 COU 
l.EQTQ Sl"rn:tts 
lllil».Q 101 ...... 
P~lCn:t'II. 
J:EW.C(Np...... 
Drn:L <:OU 
1Cl' l«lti-IICON fW IStJII IIICJIOSYSTliN 
liSl'T -u.,1 -H,.J7DO H.ltl csco -5'.U -•. }'1'4:5 1'.9-C o.a. -1.$1 -1,11.25 


;,... 
LC1'0 -s~.u -:u.. 1'50 l!i,81 -'5.§19 -6".5'CO l.Oi.t4 
...,,. 
-lit.H -10.)115 10.75 Dlt.L --1.0J •,SUS SJ,31 J:ftC -LH -1.n1, HCl.12 
1'CCM +C,21 •0.:U15 ,,.,c
-.•.1, 
-1.UJi n.111 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page S 
INDIA 
Police arrest Kashmir separatist 

Associated Press 
ANANTNAG 
Police opened fire on protesters, killing 10 people, while trying to quell violent demonstrations Monday over alleged police slayings of civilians, officials said. 
Thousands of slogan-shouting proteste·rs hurled rocks al police and the government administration building in Anantnag, demanding the exhumation of the bodies of five men shot last week in what of'ficials said was a gun battle with the mili­tants. 
Police detained Shabir Shah, leader of' the .Jammu-Kashmir Peoples' Democratic Front who had been among the demonstrators. His group is one of dozens championing the separation of Muslim-majority Kashmir from India, which is pre­dominantly Hindu. Police and army officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that in addition to the deaths, 12 people were wound­ed when police fired on protesters. Administration officials later imposed a curfew in Anantnag. 
The protesters alleged that army soldiers killed five innocent people and then claimed they had been among the militants who had mas­sacrnd 35 Sikhs in a nearby village on March 20. 
A magisterial inquiry already has been ordered into the killings of 11 people who were shot in two sepa­rate incidents. Police said all were involved in the massacre of the Sikhs in Chatti Singhpora, which they said had been carried out by 17 men in a joint operation by two Pakistan-based militant groups. 
A twelfth suspect had been cap­tu red earlier and had disclosed information leading to the discovery of the others. according to the offi­cial account. 
Residents of Anantnag said the five killed by the army were actual­ly five youths who disappeared from their homes. The bodies were charred beyond recognition and quickly buried. But bits of clothing indicated the bodies were those of the men who disappeared, and the townspeople have demanded that the corpses be examined again. 
Residents have held strikes in 
U.S resists deploying troops to Lebanon 
Associated Press 
JEHUSALEM 
The United StatP.s will not deploy troops in south Lebanon as part of an international peacPkneping force after Israel withdraws from the 
area. U.S. Defense Secretary William C o h e n s a i d today. 
fsraeli Prim c 

Minister Cohen 
E h u d 
Barak, speaking after a meeting with the visiting defense secretary, said he did not expect the current 
U.N. peacekeeping force in the area, UNIFIL, to be expanded significantly after an Israeli pullback, which is due by July. • 
Barak also said he did not foresee a need for nations nut represented in UNIFI!. to send forces to Lebanon in the future. The UnitAd States and France, another key mediator between Israel and Lebanon. do not have troops in UNIFIL. 
Cohen said no decisions have been made about the future of U.N. peacekeepers in south Lebanon. "I do not anticipate that the United States will be a participant should there be such a UNffJL." he said. 
Barak has said he would withdraw Israeli troops from south Lebanon by July, ending an 18-year Israeli military presence. The prime minister initially 
KRTPhoto Indian police arrested separatist leader Shabir Shah after he lead a protest against the killing of thirty-five alledgedly innocent Sikhs in a 
local village. 
Anantnag every day for the past week, but on Monday the protest turned violent. 
The Kashmir troubles have claimed more than 25,000 lives in the last 10 years. 
Advertisement oldiers trapped 75 militants in a military cordon and killed 25 of them when they tried to breach the security net, said spokesman Col. R.P. Witana. Four soldiers were killed and 76 wound­ed in the fighting, he said. 
In other areas unconnected with 
hoped to win the backing of Syria, the main power in Lebanon, for such a move. 
However, last week's summit between Syrian President Hafez Assad and President Clinton did not lead to a renewal of Israeli­Syrian negotiations, and Barak said today that the probability of talks restart­ing in the foreseeable future was ''quite low." 
Israeli Foreign Minister David Levy sharply criti­cized Assad today, saying the Syrian leader's handling of the peace talks appeared to be without direction and that he was an obstacle to peace. 
If Assad really wanted peace, Levy told Israel radio, he should have told Clinton what Syria would be prepared to give up in 
the latest military operation, 14 rebels and one soldier were killed. 
There was no independent confir­mation of the rival claims as jour­nalists are barred from visiting the war zone. 
More than 61,000 people have been killed since the war erupted in 1983. The guerrillas have been fighting for Eelam, a homeland for the minority Tamils. They say the majority Sinhalese discriminate against the Tamils in education and jobs. 
return for an Israeli with­drawal from the Golan Heights, which the Jewish state captured from Syria in 1967. 
Syria has over 30,000 troops in Lebanon and is the real ruler there. Israel hoped to obtain a Syrian promise to prevent guerrilla attacks against the Israeli border after the withdraw­al, as part of the deal over the Golan. 
Barak said today, howev­er, that he did not expect a unilateral withdrawal to lead tu a flare-up of violence in the foreseeable future. 
Meanwhile, Lebanese Prime Minister Salim Hoss visited Syria today . for another in a series of high­level consultations sparked by Israel's plans to with­draw from Lebanon. 
page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, April 4, 2000 
Judge's verdict rules against Microsoft 
Associated flress 
\YASIIINGTON 
Humbling a proud giant of the eompulcr age, a fodPral judge ruled Mondav that Microsoft Corp. violate·d U.S. antitrust laws by keeping "an oppres­s i V e thumb" on competitors during Urn rare to link Amf\ricans to the Internet. 
!n a 
sweeping verdict against the empire that Hill Gates built, U.S. District .Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson said Microson. violated the Sherman Act. the same law used to crush monopolies from Standard Oil to AT&T. 
I le concluded that the compa­ny was guilty -as the n~cteral government. 19 states and the District of Columbia had alleged in a cas~~ that began in May 1998 -ol' "unlawfully tying its Web browser" to its Windows operating system that domi­nates the computer market worldwide. 
"Microsoft placed an oppres­sive thumb on the scale of corn­petitive for­tune, thereby 

Jackson's verdict opens the door 1hr the fed(~ral governmr.ni to scr.k drastic penalties against Microsoft. 
The options range from breaking up the company that madn Gates a billionaire to forcing it to share its propri­etary software code with com­petitors . .Jackson also paved the way for statPs to s1-1ek ponaltics under their own anticompcti­tion laws. 
"Microsoft maintained its monnpoly power by anticom­petitive means and alternpt11d to monopolize the Web browsi-r market." Jackson said in a rul­ing that causf!d a rncord-plungc in the Nasdaq market oven before its relr.ase. Microsoft stock dropped by more than $15 a sharP to close at $90.87 1/2, costing Gatr.s about $12.1 billion in paper losses. 
Tho Justice Departmont vowed to press thti case until consumers am rewarded. 
"Microsoft has been held accountable for its illegal con­duct by a court of law." Attorney General Janet Henn said. "Thanks to this ruling, consumers who have been harmed can now look forward to benefits." 
Attorneys general for the states that joined the case called for strict sanctions. 
Connecticut 

WEEKEND 
RACQUETBAI.I. TOUR..NAMENT§. 
SATURDAY & SUNDAY APRIL 8 & APRIL 9 
JOYCE CENTER 
Men's & Women's Divisions T-Shirts to all Participants Bring Your Own Racquet Balls Will be Provided Refreshments Will be Served 
Register in Advance at ~~ Deadline: Wednesday, April S $8.00 Fee 
\~.;~..-_:._~f:. ·: ~--.~'i:: 
~ ..,>~ :•;· : 
.. .,; 
.• "<: • 
Attorney
"Microsoft placed an 
effectively 
General 
guaranteeing oppressilJe thumb on the 
Richard its continued 
scale ofcompetitive Blumenthal 
dominance," 
u r g e d
fortune. thereby
Jackson 
Jackson to 
\\TOte. effectillely "adopt reme­
The verdict guar(fnteeing its dies that are affirms as far-reach­
continued dominance." 
Jackson·s pre­ing and fun­
vious ruling in damental as November Thomas Penfield Jackson Microsoft's that the soft­
U.S. District Judge abuses of its 
wan' giant is a monopoly. one that illegally used its power to bully competitors and stinc innovation, hurting consumers in the process. 
The judge's ruling can be appealed. delaying its impact for years. and Gates said the company would pursue that avenue. 
While Microsoft "did every­thing we could to settle this case, we believe we have a strong case on appeal." Gates said. " ... This ruling turns on its head the reality that con­sumers know: that our soft.ware has helped make PCs accessible and morn affordable to millions of Americans. M 
Microsoft didn't lose all of the case: Jackson ruled that the governmunt failed lo prove that Microsoft's exclusive marketing arrangements with other com­panies ··constituted unlawful. exclusive dealingM under feder­al antitrust law. 
monopoly." 
Hen o's antitrust chief, Joel Klein, said he was still open to a settlement but that it would have to redress the violations cited in Monday's ruling. 
Microsoft Chief Executive Steve Ballmer also said the company would be open to more negotiations hut it "would need to see an approporaite opennessM from the govern­ment. 
"W11've spent the past 25 years thinking of ourselves as a small aggressive company play­ing catch up to industry giants even though at some point along the way we became a large company," Ballmer said. " ... Our intense focus on moving forward has at times been seen as threatening and our passion for being the best ha.<; been mis­interpreted. We can do better. But that doesn't mean innovat-• ing any less or delivering any less value to consumers." 
INS, Elian 's Miami kin negotiate 
Assembly President llicardo
• Elian's father will 
Alarcon. a top aido to Cuban come to U.S., join President Fidel Castro, was negotiations still being reviewed. State 
Department spokesman 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
Tim State Department cleared the way Monday night for Juan Miguel Gonzalez to travel to thr Unihid States so he can pursw~ his quest to he reunitnd with his son Elian, as negotiations continued belwetm immigration officials and the boy's Miami rf'lativns. 
The department granted the senior Gonzalez's visa request along with those of his wife, in fan l son and Elian's male cousin, kinder­garten ieadwr and pediatri­cian. The visas for the six could be issued as early as Tuesday. 
The Cubans' request for 22 other visas -to Elian·s class­mates as well as National .James Hubin said U.S. diplo­mats in Havana will submit lists of questions to the Cuban government concerning these requests to determine the mnrits of the cases. 
Negotiations over the cus­tody issues recessed Monday night without any word on whether any progress had been made. 
Manny Diaz. attorney for Elian Gonzalez's Miami rela­tivAs, said, "Wr, continu,~ to be first and foremost con­cerned about the mental. psy­chological well-being of this young 6-ycar-old. To that extent we havi~ spent a lot of time talking about numerous issues and we will bu back tomorrow to continue our conversations." 
Outside the family's Miami house, Elian and two cousins played on a slide. They hid behind a blue tarp hung in front of the slide and teasf'd photographers by pretending lo shoot al them with toy guns. 
About 150 protesters gath­ered in front of the home. some waving signs like "Miss Beno arn you ready for another \i\laco? We are.M and "Clinton Coward, Reno Witch, Fidr.l Loco." Reno was a ref­erence to Attorney General Janet Reno. 
The Immigration and Naturalization Service had said carli,~r it would end the Miami relatives' custody of Elian on Tuesday morning if they did not agree to give him up if they lose an appeal of a federal court decision thny lost last month. 
But the negotiations shifted Monday to how to reunite Elian with his father when he arrives in this country. 
Tuesday, April 3, 2000 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
Clinton attacks Giuliani's campaign tactics 
right-wing conspiracy."
Associated Press 
J\lso Monday, Clinton said life on the campaign trail has been
J\LBJ\NY,. I\JY 
hard1. r than she expected.
Ilillary Hodharn Clinton :;aid 'Tm having a great time, butMondav that Hudolph Giuliani is I'm also seeing how hard it is" totapping into a network of right­be a candidate, the first lady told 
wing, 11011-Nnw Yorknrs to hnlp 
an audience or about 100 peoplepi!P up his 

al a community forum in lhe vil­
l"u nd-raising 
lagr. of Coxsackie just south of 
Ir.ad in thnir 
Albany.
Sf'natt• con­
'Tm almost embarrassed to 
tr:st. 
think back -all the times that I 
ThP first 
would say to my husband, 'Well,lady said Uw you cou Id have said this differ­
HI! fJ U b I iC il 11 
irn tly, or you could have done
i'frw York 
llrnt.' Now, l would like Lo take City mayor is all those words back because it's
Clinton
utilizing: a . vPry tough fur both men and 
"broad 
women." she said.
national rrntwork of pimple who Clinton also repeated lrnr sup­art\ opposed to what I would do port for gun licensing, a positionin the S1maw." 
shared by Giuliani. 
"llo is playing on their fears Clinton attackPd the Nationaland s!'nding out thnsP direct­Hitle Association for being stuckmail ri'quests and pr.oplc that on a "theological view·· about arn s<'eing thPm aru r<isponding gun control, but she also warned to it." said 
against "peo­Clinton, who ple on thA 
has ruisnd S 12 
"He is playing on their other extreme 
million to 
who want tu 
Giuliani's $19 fears and sending out 
take every­million. "I these direct mail requests body's guns
don't think it's 
and people that are seeing away." 
VNY ..compli­"I've gone
cated. them are responding to it." 
hunting," she 
Giuliani's 
said. "I don't 
fund-raising 
Hillary Clinton have anything
ll'tWrs are 
against guns if
New York senate candidate
"mor1• in linl' guns am used with tlw righ l by responsible
wing or 
pc)(Jple."
i\mnrica than th<' main stream or 
Meanwhile. Hepublican Rep.
New YorkPrs." Clinton said. 
Hick Lazio, who over the week­
Giuliani campaign manager end re-ignited talk of enteringBruce T,iitt)lbaum rnsponded: the race, said Monday that the 
"Mrs. Clinton is obviously disap­
contest between Clinton and 
pointNI in her campaign and its Giuliani is shaping up as a per­abilitv to attract more support. 
sonality-driven "food fight." 
so no~v she's reverting to that old Lazi~ said he offers voters aClinton ruse ol' blaming the vast clear alternative. 

HOP TO IT! 
Make the move lo 
JAPAN 
Prime minister suffers a stroke 
cuss the crisis. Out of defer­public in the dark about the
. Leadership 
ence to the family, both Aoki seriousness of his conditioncrisis could and Mori refrained from for 12 more hours. commenting on the timing of Aoki said an official who
dissolve Obuchi 
thA selection of a successor. provided incorrect informa­
government 
Obuchi, 62, was hospital­tion to media about Obuchi's ized early Sunday after com­situation did so because Im 
Associated Press plaining of fatigue. His con­was so shocked by thA situa­dition deteriorated rapidly, tion lhal he was "not think­and Aoki announced on ing straight."
TOKYO 
Monday that Obuchi had "I apologizc,"Aoki said. 
Prime Minister Keizo 
su!Tered a stroke and was in "We will be careful in the 
Obuchi was on life support 
a coma. He was put on a future." 
Tuesday after a stroke, leav­
respirator. Aoki earlier had said that 
ing the Japanese govern­
His wife, Chizuko, and when he visited Obuchi at 
ment to grapple with a lead­brothAr were at his side. His the hospital Sunday, and ership crisis and the possi­
daughter, Yuko, returned Obuchi verbally requestedbiIity of dissolving the 
from studies in England that he become acting primeCabinet and finding a suc­Tuesday morning to join minister, he did not realize 
cessor. 
them. how scriou:; Obuchi's condi­
There was also growing 
Tokyo's private TBS televi­tion was. 
anger over lhe delays by the sion network quoted uniden­As of late Monday, officials 
governmont in reporting 
tified doctors late Monday as still had not disclosed when Obuchi's illness to the pub­
saying that Obuchi suf­lic. 
Obuchi fered the 
As Obuchi's wife, daughter was clini­"He has been a good 
stroke or 
and other family members 
cally brain friend to me personally, when he 
assembled at the Tokvo hos­
dead. fell into a 
pital whore he ha; been he's been a good friend
T h e coma. 
since early Sunday, acting 
prime min­to the United States." President 
Prime Minister Mikio Aoki 
ister's Clinton 
called a Cabinet meeting 
office said praised
amid speculation that politi­Bill Clinton
it could not Obuchi. 
cians were moving quickly President
confirm "He has 
to name a successor. 
the report, been a 
According to media and offi-good friend reports, a replacement could 
cials at Tokyo's Juntendo to me personally, he's been be selected as early as later 
University Hospital refused a good friend of the United Tuesday and a new Cabinet to comment. States," Clinton told could be installed by the end Aoki said there was 
no reporters.
of the week. Under that sce­change in Obuchi's condition The process of selecting a nario, it appeared likely that 
as of Tuesday morning, but replacement. would begin
Aoki would be able to keep 
medication had apparently with the nomination of a the government together. 
stabilized his blood pres­new president of the Liberal 
Media reports were wide­
sure. Democratic Party. The nom­spread that Yoshiro Mori, 
Meanwhile, Aoki apolo­inee would then be 
the secretary-general of the gized Tuesday for govern­approved as prime minister ruling Liberal Democratic 
ment delays in announcing by Parliament. Because the Party, was the likely candi­
Obuchi's condition to the LDP has more seats in 
date to replace Obuchi. 
public. The government Parliament than any other Senior members of 
waited nearly 24 hours to party, its president is guar­Obuchi's ruling party met 
announce that he had been anteed the prime minister­through the morning to dis-
hospitalized and leaving the ship. 
The Department of Mathematics Proudly Pre..nts The GE Prizes for Excellence in Mathematics to 
Senior Honors Mathematics Majors
Williamsburgon the Lake 
Ryan Gendreau and Richard Siefring
~-/> 
Senior Mathematics Majors 
Katherine Huckabay and David de Tagyos
April $99 Move Yau In Special
r, 
Junior Honors Mathematics Major
t"'l 
David Swlnarslcf
Eggs-ccptianal one and IWI bcdlllDIII llaarpl 
Junior Mathematics Major 
Kate Simpson
$SS Security Deposit 
and
Convicnt Location 
Haaser Scholarships to
er:r: Laree pets welcome 
Jennifer crone and Meghan Nagle-Peterson
Mini and vertical blinds included (-Cas lcat Included 
and 
.. Crcd.i,l,J.U. ideUncs ~pply ~ 
The Kolettis Award in Mathematics to 
@,K~ Wtltiam.sbu1'g 1=J 
Bradley Detlefsen 
:-=:-_____ --~0t~eL EQUALHOOSlNG
rtI/Je L«Ke OPPORTUNITY 
and 
256-0237 Located on Main Street; just south of Catelpa 
The Aumann Prize for Firat Year Honors Mathematics to 
Donovan McFeron 


page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, April 4, 2000 
ITALY 
EGYPT 

Pope criticizes discarding of elllbryos 
Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY 
PopP John Paul 11 attacked the practice of eliminating unwanted embryos that result from artificial procrnalioll 
methods. 
··various tncl111iques of' artifkial reprod uc­tion, appar­ently at the service of' life. actual­

ly open thl' John Paul II door to 
11 f' W 
attacks on life," he told u con­Vflntion of gynecologists and obstetricians in Rom('. 
The µope spcci(kally attacked the practice of eliminating some 
POLAND 
First modern highway opens, charges tolls 
Associated Press 
WARSAW 
Drivers began paying a toll Mondav for the use of Poland's first modern highway, which connects the southern city of Krakow with Katowice in the industrial region of Silesia. 
The 35-mile, four-lane road is a dramatic change from Poland's crowded two-lane roads, which are in shoddy condition after years o·f neglect. Poland's roads are also crowded by slow moving trucks and farm vehicles. 
For the lirst time in Poland, the company used modern paving techniques and asphalt formulas. The toll for cars is $2 and trucks cost $5 -a high price given an average Polish salary of $500 a month. 
Private construction compa­ny Stalexport Autostrada Malopolska, which won the 
Lafortune Ballroom from 5 -7 pm uesday :-Kareoke in Reckers from 9 -11 pm esdc1y: Movie: Animal Hp · 
. . ~ 
;;;n>,in.DeBartolo 102 at 
embryos when too many result from in vitro fertilization and other artificial conception methods. 
Vatican teaching maintains that the only permissible way for conception is through sPxu­al rnlations bntwHen husband and wifl1. 
"Those who rnsort tu artificial methods must be held n-'sponsi­blc for illicit conception, but what1wer the mode of concep­tion -once it happens -the child conceived must be absolutely respected," the pope said 
1111 urged that the fetus be "protected, def'ended and nur­tured in the mother's womb because of its inherent dignity." The eonvention dealt with advances in treating fetal prob­lems, including in-womb surgNy. 
bid to modernize thf-l old high­way, was granted a 30-year license to collect the toll. 
Stalcxport opened the new highway three months ago and allowed free access to it until Monday pending tests. 
The $92.5 million project was financed from private funds as well as credit from 
the  European  Bank  of  
Reconstruction  and  
Development.  

Stalexport told the Polish news agency PAP that in order pay back crndits and cover maintenance costs it will have to raise the toll next year to $2.50 ro·r cars and $5.50 !'or trucks. 
When Poland opened its markets in 1989, foreign automakers flooded the for­merly communist country and the number of cars registered rose 50 percent to 12.5 million in 10 years. 
African, European nations meet 
. Leaders meet to improve rela­tions and help Africa's debt 
Associated Press 
CJ\!BO 
Sharp rPbukns and frank picas p1.111ctu,ll.1:d Ow first day of the Africa-Europe summit Monday, ovcrshado\l\·ing the warm words of cooperation and hopl' that marked the opening t:cremony. 
The two-day meeting is a major effort to ov!1rconrn the bitterness o!' Europ1i's colonial past and launch new efforts to bring the heavily indebted African nations into the global ewnomic and political main­stream. But a vehemently anti­Westnrn statement by Libyan !Hader Moammar Gadhaf'i rais11d tensions that more mod­crate leaders had hoped to avoid. 
In a closed-door session attend,~cl hy ]mads of govcrn­mcn ts and top ministers, Gadhali said Europe "had been submerged by American impe­rialism," according to a diplo­mat who heard Gadhafi's speech. The diplomat quoted 
No Summer Plans ?? Here is a service-learning opp.ortunit for credit: 
• Service-Learning opportunity 
• $1,700 Scholarship/3 credits (additional $1181.00 from Americorps available) 
• 
8 Weeks volunteer work with a disadva~taged population 

• 
room and board provided 


Sponsored by UND Alumni Clubs 
(ND .students only 
Applications: Center for Social Concerns 
Gadhafi as saying in the unflinching 20-minute address that "unless Europe is freed from NATO. it cannot he free." 
Summit host President llosni Mubarak of Egypt had tried to keep tlrn session from dnterio­rating into a forum for airing old grudges. Arab diplomats speaking on condition of anonymity Monday said Mubarak had ashd Gadhafi not to raise controversial topics. 
Gadhali's message) con/1icted with the conciliatory tone set by Prime Minister Antonio Gutcrres of Portugal, whose country holds the prm,idt1ncy of the 15-nation Europc1an Union. 
"It is time lo change our con­ception and preconceptions of each other," said Gutnrres. 
Debt rcnmi1wd the overriding issue. Africa as a whole has $350 billion in external debt, with some countries paying more every vear to service their loans thai1 ·they do on lrnalth and education. 
President Benjamin Mkapa of Tanzania said African nations know wh,irc they have to go. what's unclear is how. 
"It is not necessary to ham­mer to African governmenl'> the value of' competitive economic regimes with and between countries," he said. Africa, Mkapa said. "wanl'> to be part of the action, not an object of perpetual international pity." 
Even though African hopes for immodiatc substantial relief from the EU were dashed. German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder offered $350 million in debt relief to almost :rn African nations as "a special sign ofsolidarity." 
"I am confident that the otlwr creditor nations will follow our example," 1.lw chanq1llor said. 
Salim Ahnrnd Salim, sc1crn­tary-gencrnl of the 5:~-mcmber Organization of African. Unity, said the need for a "faster, deept>r and broadm· process of' debt relief r.annot be overem­phasized." 
"We should not wait for a major catastroplw to occur." he said. 
The European Union, which recently offered $ I billion in debt relief to the world's poor­est nations. had little 11101'1\ to give at the summit bnyond a promise to write a report that will he studied at a future min­isterial meeting. Most work on African debt will be handled by other international institutions. such as the Paris Club of credi­tor nations, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. 
Projects available: 
Boca Raton the Haven, home for abused neglected kids Blue Ridge YWCA programs Calgary Street Teams, working with teen prostitutes Cincinnati Boys and Girls club (local student) Detroit Mercy Hospital, Infant Mortality Program Dubuque Camp for children with physical disabilities Ft. Wayne Matthew 25-low/no income clinic (car) Indianapolis Children's summer programs, family shelter Jackson, MI Home for pregnant teens Kalamazoo migrant worker ministry -(Spanish needed) Marion, IN Abuse programs Michigan City,IN camp for developmentally disabled adults Goshen, IN Boys & Girls Club Rockford, IL medical, (car going to be Jr of Sr., female) Worcester, MA Dismas House 
and more 
ti-ii
CitM'flR rot 
SOCIAL CONCERNS
Sue Cunningham 1-7867 or Tracy 1-9402 

1uesday. April 4. 2000 The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 page 9 
.. 
Bush will focus on California voters 
IH·'s far bPhind Dcmocrat Al  California,  ''From the beginning ofthe  "It .might  
Gore among llispanics in the stnt<', lrn's going out of his way  he says. a candidate  campaign, Guuemor Bush  be competi­tive, it  
to senk tlwir vows. ll1•s popular  w  h  o  has always prioritized  depends  
among llispanic·s baek home in  writes off  California. and it has always  where the  
TPxas. and during tlrn California prinrn.ry campaign he  the state early jcop­ figured centrally in national  McCain voters go in  
challPngcd otlwr ('anrlirlatcs  to  a rd i z es  political strategy. "  California  
debate him on issues important  the  party  and where  
to I !ispanics. but "solamcntc en espanol" ­only in Spanish. So far. Corn has thr upper  herP. In addi­tion. oth­ Margita Thompson California campaign spokeswoman  the big bloc of indepen­dent voters  


NEED CASH? 
NEW DONORS EARN $20 TODAY 
MENTION THIS AD FOR A $5.00 BONUS 
Up to $145.00 a month in 2-4 hours a week 
SERA CARE PLASMA 
234-6010 515 LINCOLNWAYWEST 
Recycle The Observer. 
primaries. But he won't stay long this time. After about a day and a half in this state of 34 million people. he returns to Texas. 
Gore can count on some al.Tec­tion for his boss rubbing off on him. particularly in Hollywood. In their first appearance togeth­er in months. Clinton and Gore will appear at n Beverly Hills fund-raiser April 15. 
Bush is also sending surro­gates here regularly. His father headlined a fund-raiser near Palm Springs recently. though it was not publicized. By contrast, tlrn Democratic l'iational Committee is using high-profile surrogates as it orchestrates Bush-hashing news confonmces throughout the state. 
Bush backers i.:an find a little comfort in neutral analysts' 
comments on California  - but  
only  a  lit­ 
tle.  

go," said 
M a r k Baldassare, survey director at the Public Policy Institute of California. "I've yet to see evi-· dence that there's a lock for the Democrats in California." 
Tim Rush campaign points out that its only state campaign office remaining open after the big primaries was in California. The campaign doesn't mention that officials had quietly attempted to close the office, then reversed course, fearing such a move would raise con­cern. 
Gore discusses the "digital divide" 
Associated Press 
ATU\NTA 
Vice President AJ Gore was discussing the technology gap and the lntornot's effect on equal opportunity during a cam­p a i g n s t (J p Monday a t Martin Luther K i n g Jr . ' s alma mater. 
T h e likelv Democratic presiden­tial nominee savs Americans who lack com.puter skills and access to the Internet could be left furtlrnr behind in an economy that is becoming more dependent 
on e-com­merce and high-tech 

"The masses ofpoor
jobs. ownership Gore has 
people who are trying to and access 
promised to the
survive, basically some
to have Internet 
e v e r y are not sure whether based on 
classroom they're going to eat every r a c e , a n d income
day. are not able to focus
library and where 
connected on technology. You people to the 
can't eat a computer. " lived. Internet by T h e the end of report
Martin Luther King Ill
his first showed term, if son of late civil rights leader that about 
elected. He sup­ports funding for computer­equipped technology centers in poor communities and wants every child to be com­puter literate before they start high school. 
Martin Luther King III, who was to appear with Gore on the panel at Moreh9use College, said out­side help is needed for low­income families that don't 
A Salute to the Leaders of Tomorrow ­Air Force ROTC Cadets 
College is a time for decision 'hoose to become a leader 
Cader (. 'hiapettu 
Smart move. The whole concept of Air Force ROTC revolves around the cultivation of leadership qualities. \Nhether you're about to start collego or have already begun. it's tin-ie to mal<.e your decision. now. 
Making Leaders for the Air Force and 1-k,1cr Citi1:<'ns for America 
Contact Captain Klubeck .. 631-4676. or Klubeck.1@nd.edu 
have the time or money to embrace the new technology on their own. 
"If you're not able to learn to use the existing technolo­gy, then you almost become obsolete," said King, the son of the late civil rights leader. 
"The masses of poor peo­ple who are trying to sur­vive. basically some are not sure whether they're going to eat every day, are not able to focus on technology," hP said. "You can't eat a computer." 
While in Georgia, Gore also was to attend a $100,000-per-couple recep­tion for the Democratic National Committee at the Atlanta home of party donor Larry Cooper. The event was expected to raise $ 1.8 mil­lion. 
Last July, a Commerce Department report showed 
wide dis­
parities in 
computer 
47 percent 
of whites own computers, compared with fewer than a quarter of blacks. White children in low-income -families were three times more likely to have Internet access than poor black children. 
Families earning more than $75,000 were 10 times more likely to be online than families with incomes under $10,000, the report said. 
Associated Press 
S.\CHMIENTO, Calif. 
c;corgn W. Bush is taking pains to sl10w_h1~ won't let his­tory rt'µflat il!rnlr in California. eight y(1ars aft1,r his father 
ended thfl 
state oarly to Bill Clinton in a move that lwlpPd the l)p III oc rats win back th,• \i\'hitri 
IIOUSfL 

With svrn-Bush bolism ;rnd actions. t.lrn pnisumptive GOP prnsidcntial nominee is s1;cking to reassurn jittery Hcpublicans tlutt ho intends to light for the state and win -just as his father did in 1988. 
OnP cxampl.P: Fv1,n though some political scientists prcdicL Bush will channel resources into more winnable, less expPn­sive states. 
But Bush's people insist he's not budging in a state that holds one-fifth of the electoral votes net>ded to win the presi­dency. 
"From the beginning of the campaign, Governor Rush has always prioritized California, aml it has always figurnd cen­trally in his national political strategy," said Margi ta Thompson. a California cam­paigu sµnkµswoman. "That was true f'or the primary, and it's more than trufl for the general elnction." 
lt bett(~r be, suggests (iOP consultant Sal Russo. who worked on presidential cam­paigns with Honalct Reagan. However the November voto turns out i n 
hand among voters slatt!vvidc. with tlw latPSl Fidd Poll show­ing him 10 points alwad. !In also has a poww·J'ul ally in (iov. Grav Davis. And tlw Clinton adm.inistration has rainrd down fotlPrnl money in rncPnl months -a tartic Bush is powPrlrss to countl'r. 
Tlw vicP prPsidl:nt topped Bush :l:i p!:rcrnt to 28 1wrcnnt in tlw statP's 01wn primary last month. in lilw with a wave or l)prnocratic popularity that swPpl all but two Republicans from California's statewide of!icns a y(:ar and a hall' ago. So ers note. giving up on such a big state would allow Gore to concentrate his efforts elsewhere. too. 
!lard dBcisions will bn madD latnr in thn summer about where to focus timr and money to lrv to win a majority of tlrn 270 ~lecloral votes, Russo said. "Until them. California is going to be in the hunt. If it isn't, we ought to throw in the towel." 
Gush will campaign in California this week. beating lhe vice president to the state following last month's wave of 
-
----·--------------------------------------: 
VIEWPOINT 

page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Bo, Q. Notre Dome, IN 46S56 024 Soud1 Dinin~ Hall. Norre Dam~. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike CDnnolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BPSl'll'SS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  rim Lane  
.A5ST, MANAGING EDITOR  OI•ERATIONS M,\NAGER  
11111 Logan  Brian Kessler  

Nrv1rs EDITOR: Anne Marie Matingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lil,1 l-laughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Mollv McVoy 
PHOTO EDITOR: Liz Lrng 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: P,n Peters Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Chis Avil:i SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WED ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jo,, Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 fax......... .. ... .. .. .. . .. .. . . ....63 l -6927 ADVERf!SlNG.....................................63 l-6900/8840 
obscrver@lJarwin.cc.nd.edu EmTOR IN CmEF........................................6.~l .4542 MANA<.;ING EUITOR/AssT. ML .. .............631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.......................................6.31-5.31.3 NEWS.........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT................................................631-5303 observer.vicwpoim.I@nd.edu SPORTS......................................................631-4 54 3 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE... ......................................................631-4540 observer.scene. 1@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S ...........................................6'\ l-4J24 
observer.smc. ]@nd.edu PHOTO ....................._. ................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................6'11-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nded11 for daily updaces ofcampus news. spores. features and opinion columns, as well as canoons, reviews and breaking news from che Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-to-the 
weekly student reviews
,ntnure forecasrs 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
and races ofprim ads 
cial cm1pus coverage 
about The Observer
archives ro search for 
anicles published ali:er 
to meet the editors and 
staff
Augusc 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online b}' rhe students ofthe Universiry ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrent. including advertisements. is 11ot governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right co rduse adverrisemems based on conrent. 
The news is reported as accurately and objecrively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority ofthe Editor in Chiet: Managing Edimr. Assistant Managing Editor ar1d department editors. Commenraries. letters and columns present the views of rhe amhors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must indude contact informarion. 
Qurstiam reg11rdi11g Ohsen,cr policies should be direct­ed tn Editor in Chie(Mike Co1111o[ly. 
Tuesday, April 4, 2000 

Where's the female faculty? 
At first I brushr~d ii off when my friend Stlwe, a 1998 Notre Dame grad, mcntiorn~d that in his timo here, he'd only had two femalr. professors. 
The number seemed appallingly low. but I chalked it up to the fact that he'd been a math major. As a Spanish and premed major, l have always had at least one female profossor every semestm·. Heing cheerfully nai've. I assumed he was the oddity and my case was more typi­cal. 
The affair came to light again a cou­ple of weeks later, and this time, aggra­vated by it, I started griping about it at the computer cluster where I work. In the course of discussion, it canm to light that the three other people in the consultant kiosk had had a total of seven women professors in their com­bined twenty semesters here. They rep­resented three differnnt majors. An ensuing, more extensive poll revealed that. in fact. my numbers were anom­alous. 
I broke my personal tally down by subjects for a more in depth examina­tion, and I figured out that I had one female profossor in philosophy, one for freshman seminar, one for physiology, and six for Spanish. The only otlrnr poll respondent with morn than eight female professors had numbers similar to mine, with the majority of' hers being psychology professors and just a smat­tering in other subjects. I have yet to encounter a science major who has had more than one femahi science profes­sor. I received a response from a senior engineering major who has, over eight semesters here, never had a class taught by a woman. That almost seems excusable; engineering isn't really a 

Kate Rowland 
Read This. It May Save Your Life. 
DILBERT 
E 8 
DO YOU THINK
I'M THINKING 

DO YOU
;i
.. 
ANYONE WILL t0ABOUT GOING OUT 
@J 
NEED A 
~ 
IT'S HARD !
., 
NOTE 
; FROM MY 
~ 
DOCTOR? 
) 
0 
0 
0 
N 
9 
0 
(l 
7 
li.eld hopping with women. But this engineer has had to take core require­monts for the university just like every­one else. In all those classes, those philosophies, those social sciences, he has never encountered a femalr, profes­sor. Although he was the only one who had never had a woman professor, the average for seniors seems to be about four. one every othnr semester. Does anyone else see anything wrong with this? 
I checked out the Notrn Dame web­site. looking for the information most readily available on the subject. By my count, the numbor of "faculty expnrts" who are women rounds up to nine per­cent. That's not very many. These am the professors who have established themselves in their fields, presumably through education and research. Women lag far behind in this kind of recognition because, as of right now, they are not getting the opportunity to pursue academics. I cannot believe that romance languages and psychology the only two departments fortunate enough to have 1mough qualified female job candidates to produce a gender-bal­anced faculty, or anything even remotely resembling one. 
The American Association of University Professors suggests that women applicants are responsible for the glut of professionals in academia today. Their numbers have risen, while thosn of their male counterparts have remained the same since about 1975. Yet at Notre Damn, they arc not being hired in numbers that reflect this huge increase. The academic committee in my dorm recently hosted a professional women's forum. We had three local women. all highly educated, come and talk to us about the challenges of bal­ancing wirsonal and professional lives. (Do men's dorms have these kinds of talks? I won't cave to this digression, but I'm thinking about it). One of the wonrnn who came was Professor Carol Mooney, who works in the Provost's ol'lice and deals directly with faculty 
SCOTT ADAMS 
NO, IT'S BEEN OBVIOUS FOR A LONG 
hiring practices. She is tho person who I would have been seeking out for answers even had she not shown up in our social space for the forum. Professor Mooney said that Notre Dame is aware that its numbers are lacking, and she explained that females account for about forty porcent of Notre Dame's tenure-track new hires. According to her, they achieve tenure at about the same rate. 
So where on earth are they? What arc they teaching? Even if the forty percent is a new number, I certainly haven't noticed any difference in the past four years. Wherever these new female hires are, they are not numer­ous 1mough to put an end to the gross inequality that we average students experience. The AAUP suggests that a lower percentage of women achieve tenure, and that more women with advanced degrees wind up teaching part-time or at community colleges. 
although not necessarily by choice. 
Progress is being made; the new-hire numbers and Notre Dame's acknowl­edgment of the problem are positive signs. Current students, however, are being hurt by the lack of women who teach classes and lead research here. We are learning that academia contin­ues to be a man's world, and that, should women chose to enter it, they will have fewer opportunities to estab­lish themselves, and they will always be ... held to a higher standard than thnir I male peers. That message damages professors. students, and universities. 
Kate Rowland is a senior computer science and philosophy major. She wishes to thank Mike McDonough, without whose persistent cynical sar­casm she would never have gotten suf­ficiently irritated to pursue this col­umn. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Obseruer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"There is only one political career for which women are pefectly suitable: diplomacy," 
Clare Booth Luce former U.S. ambassador to Italy 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, April 4, 2000 OBSERVER page 11 
Filling my dress for my sister's wedding 
My sisiPr is gntling marriPd this fall, and I am to be her maid of houor. Tlrnse arr, pn~cious, cx!'.iting days for my family, nnd for mys0Jf in partk.ular, evnr sincH I found out that I havP the Mary Beth Ellis biggest bonbs in Urn whole ontire wed­ding party. Of Changes in coursP, I'm beating Latitude, out 11 !'ourtecn­Changes in vcar-old. a cousin 
Altitude 
\Vl10 slands at all of 4'9". and a farnilv l'rir.nd who wears a size ncgativn SPVl'll: but 110 mattf'r. artPr spending night ronsenrlivP years in womPn's schools, I haw lwcn in countless situa­tions in which ,werybody else's WonderBra had far IPss WondorWork to <lo than mine. lt wi.11 be nice to lw a total object for once in my life. I grow !looters discoVfwy. The chest issue isn't the only reason I'm excited about the wedding (although, judiciously, that's a substantial part of it). This is about the merging of two families. This is about the blessing of a union of souls. This is about me getting my sister's room. 
It's a firm room, one with a mar­Vfdous view and a vast improvement, square-footage wise. over my current living space. It only needs me for improvement. It will be lacking that P.ssential item. however. ifthe people who are builrling mv sister's house-to­bo don't complete certain minor finish­ing Louches, such as lighting fixtures anrl shutters and walls and a roof. At this moment, as a mattnr of fact, hor future home is a plane o(' winsome Ohio mud. TlrnrP are no sewag0 lines. TherP's not even a hole to gaze forlorn­ly into. Them is just rlirt, and sticks, 
weary o!' b1~ing judgPd on thP 
basis of my 
charaetl'I' and 
illll)!ligm1c1). 
I am Pnthral111d with this business ol' being referred to as a "maid," whPther I'm an honorablP onP or not. Maid Marv lfoth' It is an ,trchaic term. and a romantic onn; tlwrd'orn it does not prop­<!rly convey my duties. which as f'ar as ! can trll basicallv consist of p;·1"­sen ting my sis­tcr with potato pcelnrs and monogrammiid guest Lowds at rcgular shownr intervals. and tlrnn. al the c1Tcmonv. shooting.1wople who stomp on the train or her gown. ArrangPment of 
the bach11­
r-------------------~ and a forlorn 

Port-0 Let in the far dis­lance. "Well," the builder said, "in two weeks, you'll start seeing rnal progress." He said this four months ago. This is unsettling for all of us -pri­marily, for obvious rea­sons, me. 
Occasionally my parents and ! form a huddle and fret en masse. "What 
are we going to ­do?" is the most oft-repeated phrase. a ques­tion I always try to meet with words of level-headed comfort ("Well, they aren't liv­ing here"). lt doesn't reallv matter much 
y,_ 1 \. I . that the house 
~ \AS~-..,._ 
may not be '----------------------....J done in time 
lorntt1\ party is atso my department. The bride has made it very de.fr that she clops not want any stripprn-s involved. (You will note she did not specifically forbid the appcarancn of' a malB person showing up alrnady naked.) 
I am fairly pleased with my maid of honor uniform. a taffeta lilac affair with matching gloves. I havo seen. and ('Xpf'ctcd. far worse. The bridP. and I do not exactly share similar fashion tastes: she prefers to blend in with the 1rnarnst wallpaprr and carpPl. while I havo nnvor b1ion known to pass an opportunity to IJP.-S<'quin mysPlf. This personality split goes back to our child­hood, when nven her Barbin dolls woni khakis and s0nsible shoes. (l\ilino were usually naked and headless.) And she has nightmares of being forced to appear in my own wedcling dressed like Zha Zha Gabor·s earrings. Which is rirlkulous -at my wedding, the atu,ndants will be attired in tasteful. rume intensive hoop skirts and shall carry parasols. Even the ushers. 
Still, WH managnd to find a dress that satisfii1d evcryorn1. l became an espe­cialty big fan at the bridesmaid's mea­suring session, which is when I made my ['abulous By-Comparison Gigantic 
for the wed­ding. because I can tell you right now that the ceremony itself is going to be delayed for days, if not weeks. This is because my father is in charge of beginning it. His only wedding-related task is to show up, and as recently as last week, lw and I had the following discussion: 
MY PATIIER: (calling from work) When's the wedding, again'.' Don't tPII your mother I had to ask. 
ME: Of course not. (Hanging up) 
Morn! 
(Later. at the dinner lable) MK I'm nfirvous about being escort­cd down the aisle by the best man. !'v!Y fATHER: Hey -who am I sup­pospd to escort. rlown t11e·aisl0? 
MY SISTER: (Chokes him) 
It's going to bA a mess. But -and this is the important thing -once everybody's assembled before the altar of the Lord. I will bfl the most bounli­fully blessed woman up there. 
Maid .Wary Re1,h Ellis. SMC '99, is an MFA candidate in nonfiction wriling at Hennington College. 
The views expressed in this column are those oflhe author ctnd not neces­sarif.'! thosr. of Thr. Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Student rapists must be expelled, swiftly 
Nothing does more to encourage student belief that campus life is regulated "by men and not by law" than the University's handling of cases of date rape. Hape by acquaintance is serious physical assault. It is a rrime difficult to prose• cute in county courts because rules of criminal procedure combine with victims' natural desire to avoid revictimization to reduce the likelihood of conviction in all but the most flagrant circumstances. But if du Lac can't be rewritten to enable the expulsion of date rapists, why do WP have a code of student conduct at all? 
I hope everyone understands that this is not a rhetorical question. 
Ed Manier 
Professor of Philosophy 
April 3, 2000 
Politicians shouldn't sell out to religions 
I would like to respond to a letter regarding Christians and the political arena (All we need is a Christian can­didate, March 30, The Observer). While the article was well-written and contained some valid points, I dis­agreed strongly with certain aspects. 
For one, the author seems to not have much experience with the politi­cal system. He states that it is "sicken­ing" when "a Catholic sacrifices his or her beliefs for the sake of an ideolo­gy." For any political election, it is impossible for a candidate not to sac­rifice his or her personal beliefs for that of their party loyalty. Whether these beliefs be of a religious or politi­cal nature, alignment with either the GOP or the Democratic Party will require the adjustment of personal agendas, even if only to create an attractive election platform. Candidates must represent the inter­ests of their constituents if they choose to bo elected. Candidates do not repre­sent "the Catholics of District 28" or "the Lutherans of the state of Texas." A platform based on religious beliefs would be an offense to the voters of conflicting faiths in that region. 
Politics, under thf' separation of church and state, is a system designed to be free from the domination of any singular theological doctrine. 
Also, the example given of two pro­choice Hispanic Catholics does not necessarily constitute a sacrifice of beliefs. The author assumes that all Catholics' personal beliefs are lock­step within those of the Catholic Church, even when it comes to politi· cal and social issues. Many Catholics consider the core of their faith to be their belief in Jesus Christ, rather than being obliging "followers" of the Catholic hierarchy and its positions on issues such as abortion, gun control, capital punishment, and euthanasia. A Catholic's disagreement with the Church authority does not make him or her any less of a Catholic. The author asks, "How can any Catholic support capital punishment like the GOP does?" I can, with conviction, but that is beside the point. 
My point is that while the author spPaks of Catholics "selling out" to politics, his suggested alternative amounts to politics "selling out" to Catholicism, which is a much worse proposition. 
Chris Sikorski 
Freshman, Keough Hall April 3, 2000 
Napster is no threat 
Once again the administration has done something it should not have done. Napstcr and programs like it are absolutely no threat to the university. First, Napster only recognizes mp2 and mp3 programs. There are no "serious security issues" at stake here. If a hacker wanted to get into the com­puters. it would be extremely easy to do so via another means. And about the bandwidth excusP, a university such as this, with all of the money it has, should have no problem handling that kind of tralfic. Indeed it has han­dled the traffic, easilv. 
Now, my question is, why is the administration on this subject? To fol­low suit with other institutions around the country? }Veil then, why has the arlministration chosen not to join the WRC? And why can't the administra­tion find better things to do with its time? Why not focus on some morn perti11ent issues on this campus? Such as alcohol, drugs, and addressing minority issues. No, the administration has to turn its guns on possibly the most useful program for us college students. 
I encourage my fellow students to e­mail all three pPople who signed the e­mail and letter in The Observer, demanding they reinstate Napstcr. Their e-mail addresses and phone numbers are easily found on the web­site. We pay to go to school here, We pay to use the network. Napster is not illegal. It has never been proven ille­gal. So why should we not be able to use it? To the administration, and especially those members who signed that document. Congratulations on making a mountain out of a molehill and presenting one more poor effort. 
Peter Godlewski Freshman, Keenan Hall April 3, 2000 

page 12 Tuesday, April 4, 2000 
==============================================---===-:::"""'.============================================================================ 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Pumpkins reclaim old fans with Machina 
By GEOPPREY RAH IE 
:,i.::rnt' t\.1ovic Cnri,._ 
As soon as Billy Corgan rips. into tlw op!'ning riff of "ThP EvPl"lasting (;au." you know lhat llw Strntsliing l'uinpkii1s an' back. :\ftpr rc'gish'ring om· uf' tlw most suri:f'ssl'ul doubl('•albums in rock historv with l\fo!lon Collio and Lill' lnl1nitp Sadness. tlrn l'urnpkins rnn•ivml popular backlash for l11Pir follow-up album, ,\dorr. But tlrn Pumpkins 1u·1, sun' to rrgain some' !'ans lost in the aftt,rmath of' .'\dorr. with \larbina: th<' marhinl's of'. <;od In a wuy. !\lad1ina mighl bP thc1 Pumpkins· bc,st work. While one mig:ht makf! a <·as!' for tlw altnrnativP mastPr­µit>rP Siamr.sp Dream. Machina is deli­nilely tlw group's most 111ittur<> p{fort Tlw band seems to haw found the perfoct mix of driving rorkPrs and blissful pop. Tlw result is quite c]P.ctri(ving. Tlw opening track. "The Everlasting c;aze.'' might be one or th,~ strongest hard numbers written by leader Billy Corgan. In the past. Corgan's hard rork songs 
brPathtaking "I 
Machina: the of' the 
Morning."
machines of God 
Corgan's voicr seems to havn
Smashing 
calmnd down a !iltlc bil in thr
Pumpkins 
song as lrn rnminisrns
Virgin Records 
about his bnginning low
Rating 
of' music. The 


track is basi­cally an ode to his dismvcry or 
By C.ASSIE CARRIGAN 
\n:·tH: i\ 1usIC Critil 
Thne is something inr'l"Pdibly satis­fying about discovering a band bnfon~ the rest of the world discovPrs th1'm. Herr is your chancP tu do just that. 
Tht' band Elephant has rPccntly rPleased its f'irst CD. Monday Morning, 
sometimes went a littl<'. too far. They nit.lrnr pushed tlw firw linP of sensibln music or just got vv,ty tor, rPpctitivP. For nw.ry solid lrack liki; "'./.('ro" Uwrn would !),, a wcakP.r vnrsion such as "BodiPs." 
llowrivcr. Marhina's only w1'itk hard numlwr is lhc ,tlnrnst-laughabln "I lnavy MPtal Marhinn." Tlw guitar li1ws arP pretty impn~ssiw. but it's so lrnrd lo gd owr llw fad that Corgan is singing Uw praisns of !wary metal so blatantly. Tlw IP:L.;L lw rnulcl have done w,ts disguise lhn lvrirs a IiLt l(• bit. 
· Although tlw crilics have bern saying thr Pumpkins arc rnturning to thliir hard mck ro11L-; -whi1:h tlrny do addr<'ss in a f'l'W songs -llw real sLrt'IIALh of' Llw CD is !hat the bulk of lhf' songs an• mid-t£'1llpo. standard rork/pop songs. !tight after the crashing guitars on the oprning track, the rool back-b1'at of "Haindrops + Sun;;howers" lwlps sett.le do,.vn l.lw atmosplwre. Corgan discusses tlrn com­mon bond everyone sharns through our pain and misfortunes. 
And that is only the hr.ginning. 
Tlw £rntire disc is chock-full of Par 
candy. high­
lighted by th£! 

ALBUM REVIEW 
Former darners find following in Elephant 
Start Again. Th1)y hav!' a uniqur, rnl­11rful and cnr)rgcti<· sound that r-esrm­blcs no other band curri,ntly out 
~d~. . 
Elephant is something ol' a home­grown plrnnomrnon. l.r:ad singer and guitarist Joe llrngandr originally livPd here in South Bend and was in a pop­ular band rnll11d SPa of' Words with Fletch. who is now thr, b·assist f'or El!'phant. BrPgandp's brolhi'I' DavP. who also sings lr,acl vol'als and plays acoustir 
guitar and Flctrh both grad LrntPd l'rnm NoirP DamP in '95 and '<)2 rnsprclivr:ly. 
l:Jr,phant has si!l£'.C rclol'atcd to t\tlanta 
whr,rp tht>y'vp µid,nd up quilP 
a following on thn local club cireuit. 
You can f'ind 
out. more infor­mation, and lis­t£'n to sampl<1s of tlrnir songs at thnir wcd1 sit<'.: 
hllp:\\wu:w.elc­phantmnk. rom. 
Elrphant couId be r:atngo­r iz <' d ns a 
llw radio "that plays his favorite song." Thn radio inspires him to "wipe the dust of!' his guit,tr" and "read your letters." The track explains how wc tPnd to associ­ate music with a certain time in our lives. wlrnthri· it br, junior-high. a certain rcla­tionsh ip or a particularly tough time. Music ean make us hold on to the mcmo­riPs Lhat made us laugh and cry. /\nd that's what is so great about it 
Anollwr winnnr is the exceptional "Try. Try, Try" vvhich calls for the courage in 
all of' us to win over tlw fear. lie points out placns where people need to be strong -"I hear it's over in Detroit." And the classic "Wound" brings out thP. best of the band .showcasing its grnat rock ability. 
It's great to sec one of the precious alternative bands survive. A good band like tlw Pumpkins knows how to take chances and keep it interesting. 
But most importantly. they know how to make a great album. Machina: the ma.chinr,s of God is a great album. 
p o p / r o c· k group but 
that category is rn ally too narrow for lh«'i r sound. Vocallv, 
E I e p h a n l•• s 
sound i.s dis­tinct. Joe and Dav1\'s voicns complnmnnt e,tch other 
Monday Morning, Start Again 
Elephant 
OrZ Records Rating 

whilP FlPtrh's 
b a 1'. k g r o u n cl .......... 
vorals add 
color to t'ach song. Tlwir sound is both upb<'at and has a soul. 
l•:l('phant's influonces inclucfr lh<• 
BPat.lr•s. Bob Dylan. Tlw Who, U2, Tlw .IILm, Tlw Kinks. Paul Simon. CrowdPd llnusc and othPr musicians whosP focus is primarily on songwriting. Much likl' tlwsn musical greats, EIPphant's songs am more t.han just gnud musir -tb,,y say sonwthing Lo lhr listrnPr about how the songwriter v inws Ii f() . I o v <' and al I th at .i az z. EIPphant"s songs look thn dark1wss of' !if<' straight in thn 11yl', whiln at Llw same lime. rr,l'usr Lo givr, in lo dnspair. The last line of "This is tho Story" sums up this vinw wlrnn it says, "The loss is nnvr,r stronger than what's gain<'d." 
Monday Morning. St1Lrt !\gain is poµ musk al its finest. Th<' music is prr­fect f'or dancing and having a good time or just hanging ouL 
That's lhn beauty of it all -thn 

music is fun and yet the lyrics provide mor<' lhan jusl oar candy. The album opens with the mrnrgPlit'. "No Slowing llown" a~nl flows straight into "Evil." a song that 1wrfcctly describes the perils oJ' the dating gam0 that we all senm to £)nd up playing. From then', thP album only gets better. From th~~ upbeat and hopnful "If' I Wanted To" lo lhc touching "Steeple llill." each song makr.s you want more. 
The song "Ani." while seeming to µuke a little run at folk artist Ani Difranco. sums up thP idPa bchind !Wf!ry song on tlw album -"And I'm truly sorry/ That the world isn't all it could be/ I think I'd like to laugh a while/ and sing about the world that I s1'e/ !'ct love for you to hear a smile/ frum nH1." 
Thosn lines capturn most of Joe and Dave Bregande's writing style, and o!Tnr a small glimpse into tho sµirit uf' tlrn entirn album. 

Tuesd:iy, April 4, 2000  page 13 ------=----_--:_::_:.====:.======-==============================================================  
ALBUM REVIEW  

Gomez enters American pop with Liquid Skin 
By ANDREW JONES 
'\1..nw ~i1\\11.._ Cnn.. 
Whil1· Llw pop sound b1•t.wl'cn Europr lpartirnlarl\· 13ritainl and Anwrka dil'­i'l'rs. British gruup Comt'Z rn!Pa,;p{! thl'ir s1•1·ond album. l,i4uid Skin. with a sound 'iimilar lo (hal of Anwri1·an pop. 
Corn1•1. undoubtrdly is a g-rnup that n1irr11rs tl11' AmPriran pop sounds ul' l'Parl .lam and I.lave• !\•latLh1\WS B.1.11<l 1\ ith ;u1 adcfrd l,tyn ol' lhiti,d1 s1,nsibil­it,. 
In !'a1·t. lnind nwmb1•r Tom Cray adds a dislinguislwd, rasp~' sound Lo vocals that is -;[rikinglv simil<1r Lo thP vocal sound of l'rarl ·.lam frontman EdcliP V1•dd1,r -· onlv (;rav, unliko V1•ddPr, dfll'S nol 0Vf'rJ;o11'f'r. LhP nvprall vnral PSSl'111·1•, sa(uruling tlw g-roup':,; sound with lo1w-d1'ai' s1,n•ams-in an att!'mpt to add inti•nsitv to tht• musi('. HathPr, in Liquid Ski,~. Cray's voi('(• is not always prPvalrnt, which do!'s allow for 

Pffi>rts on the guitars
Liquid Skin 
helps the band rap­turt' a dis­
Gomez 
tinct sonnd. This sound 
Virgin Records is cr8atrd with th,~ a<ldilion of s O Ill P 
Rating Eastern instruments, pPrhaps
........ 
spawning from the 
oth('r mrmbPrs' vocal additions lo thi­album's nxccl!Pntly <livnrsP.sound. 
Liquid Skin brgins with thA track "llangovr.r." which offers that At11Pri(:u11 pop sound srwaking up slow­ly from Uw hf'ginning of tlw track. Tl1f' guitar work on this lrack is nothing spncial, although thr ingrnious use of 
group's musical taslr,s, Their favoriLr, albums? Trw Beatles' HevolvM and Hrndrix·s Ell~ctric Ladyland, 
While the monotonous beat of "Hl'volutionary Kind" has the potential to drivr, one insane, this track provides an introduction to the vague euro­trash/teclrno aspect of their sound that fortunately only remains prP-dorninant on this song. On the other hand. the eurotrash aspect that exists on Liquid Skin definitely adds an unusually dis­tinct psychndclic sound that undeni­ably plar.cs it a step above tl11\ sounds of American pop music. 
Gomez docs not emit .that hard-core 
· rock sound mm might have PXflf'Ctcd to find on Liquid Skin, yet Uwir truly mel­low tracks such as "We llavon't Turned .\round" di l'l'er from their prevalent chill sound, The only draw­bark to this ovrrall tempered sound is that tho lyrics fall just a bit short of exceptional. 
Liquid Skin nonethehiss proves to lrn a grr,at album. Listen to Urn track "Hosalita·· with its great lyrir.s. intri­cate guitar work and awesome chord prugnission that makes one's spine tingle, and you rfofinilely won't be dis­appointnd you purchased the album. And besides, aren't vou sick of that bland ol' American pop/rock sound? 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Guster rocks during April Fool's concert 
song, Hosnnworccl stoppcd Urn show. By LISA BRUNO and \.\'ith thP music continuing in the \n:n1· \1t1Sll ( :ritic background. conl'Pssed that all the while they'd been lip-syncing. The Eight ypars ago ,ti Tt11'ts University, sc(·.ond surprisP came with a passion­an amazing thing happnnnd -atr prrfor111crncP of Six PencP None lhrl'f' 1·rPshmP11, Brian Hosrnworc<>l. the Hid1er's, "Kiss Me" by 
\dam Gardnr•r and Hyan Millf'r nwt Hoscmwo reel, who dosl'n't usually sing and dP1·idPd Lo form a band. Cardner but sticks to the drums. and Milll'l' providrd th(' vocals and .\ rcviPw or Guster would not be guitars. and Hos1'nworct•I providr·d thr compl!'t<' without nwntioning what 1wrrussion on congos. Originally rail­Hosem-\orcr,I does bPhind that drum ing Lhf•ms1-lvP.s "Cus." tlw band was set. Ile is known as "Thundergod," a l'orcPcl to change' its nanw to Custer name that couldn't be more accurate. 
afll'r !'acing [pgal truublPs. [t sec1ms almost unreal to see the 
In I <)<J3. (;ustPr sc'lf'-producf'd its pffort he puts forth with each song. Ile l'irsl album. ParaC'.11utP. Tlw band LhPn bPconws almost likfl a puppPt brhind IH'ld ol'f anv BP\\ material until tlrnir thP congos -his hands hitting them 
1998 rPlna:-;r, Coldfly. \\'ith Goldf'ly, with such t'orcr, and pref'.ision, it's dif­the band's Si'rnncl album, Custrr was f'irnlt for tlw onlooker to kerp track of pirknl up by tlw Sin• rProrcl labPI. where his hands are going. The result Sinrt' thf'ir VPry f'ormalion, Custt'r has is an amazing driving backdrop to st'l !'on1s1•d goals for nach song, which its!'II'. at t' a r h Iu r n . distinguishes Guster .s(•Uing tliosP goals a This was the concert that from any other band. 
bit highl'r. Thr vorals and gui­
ended loo soon and left 
This f'orus is prPva­tar arP providl'd by
the anclience saying
IPn t in thPir 1991) both GardnPr and r I' II' as<'. Los L an cl "Thank you Gusterfor Millrr. who also put (; 11 n (' For1' v e r . B u I forth immeasurable
playing your
110\1-hf'rP is tlw focus effort with t'ach
instruments, and thank
morl' apparPnt than song, not holding 
in lhPir livP shows, you for being so real." back in any way. most rl'C('nlly this All thr lyrif·s on past Saturday' night Lost and Gone at lhl' llousP of nlul's in Chicago. h1rPVPr W<'l'C' wriUPn by Gardner. As 
l'Prl'orming bf'i'orl' a sold out rTowd. Hoscnworo'.I commPntP<l. thP albnrn Cusle'r did 11 hat many l11tnds dn•.un ol' cn.pturc's (;ustt•r and at times sr.rms doing -gav1· a !'lawlPss pPrformanrc. likn a brrak up album -espncially Th(•ir roh«·si\n1wss 011 stage was olT with songs likn '"EithPr Way·· and "l 
lh<' srnlcs and was only <·omplPmnntnd Spy." Dnsµitn this tlwmr, thf• audim1ce by llir• l'lll'rgy that l'am·P l"rnm thPir mom b" rs· f\t n•.s we rf' cover<" d with obvious 1•njoynw1tl of pPrl'orming. smiles. 
1:rorn tht' thund1•ring opf\ning or In ta! king with llosrnworcel before "II n ppi(' r." Cus t n r "n 11 1, uII cI' d that thr show. it was apparent that onr of tlwy WPl'I' LhPn· Lo play -and play Custpr's top goals has includ1\d an 
Wl'II. attempt at staying grounded as a 
Tlwv pnrl'ornwd sungs from all tl1rPr band . .\s lw dPscribt,d it. tlrnv realize take part in concert promotion in their real for an indefinite amount of time. ,tlbums, inf'luding tht• sin~)(' "Fa Fa." their !'an bas!' is an intrgral part ol' town. This program offers results. But the reality is that thr,ir fan base is 01w or tlw highlights or 1hr Slltlv\-' ranw their succ<·ss and thry arc smnewhat a Tht>ir current road manager. Pasty, growing, they have produced a video w ith th 1' " 11 a ppy I: r a pp y " Ill 1• Io cl y n1sult oi' u grass runts following, In was once a Gustf'r Hep. It dOf•sn't get and they will be touring until 2001. 1sh<•r('. tlH'Y playrd only what they con­n'alizing this. GusU•r rnntinu0s to play any more real than that. And that's Yet, Guster seems to be untouched by s id (' r Pd to b" l h «' b <'st s n ipp(' ts o I' srnall<'r, nrnrfl intimate Vt~nues and to how it is with Guster -real. this and they seem to continue to s1mgs from tlwir l'irsl album. nrnkP Pach show distinct and intPr.tc­The show cndod with what felt like a appreciate their fans and to love per­
:\nd sincP lhn co111:nn Look plact; on LiYP. with thP audience. They !{fHHlindy special girt -au unplugged perfor­forming. ;\priI i"!J uI's [) a y. it· co u I cl n · t b P an appreriatf' tlH•ir !'ans. and this is ma11c0 of' "Mona Lisa." As pure quirit This was the concert that ended too 1wtlw11tic Custer sho1,1· without a l'r:,.., apparent in their "Hep" program. came over the audience, there was soon and left the audience saying .,.,... (;usfN tril'ks. ThP first ramn with a Fans across the country are designal• somA hope out th ere that GustAr will "Thank you Guster for playing your hoaxPd lip-syncing ol' "Cr('a( liscape" rd as Guster reps. They recciye a nevPr change. that they will somehow instruments, and thank you for being in whiC'h. al'l<'r pcrl'orming-half thn press kit and an official Hep name and pause and stay this amazing and this so real." 

-----------,..,----------~...... ·•·
........ . 

page 14 
MSU 
continued from page 24 
passes. 
The Spartans were their usual efficient selves when thev did run their halfcourt game. getting good looks and crashing the boards when they missed. 
The Michigan State bench was considered a key to any chance the Spartans had. Florida's reserves had outscored it 175-45 in the tournament, but Jason Richardson had nine points as the Spartans-· backups came up big. 
Udonis Haslem had a season­high 27 points for the fifth-seed­ed Gators (29-9), whil(e Brent Wright added 13. 
The 1979 final is still the high­est-rated telecast of an NCAA basketball game -the one that hooked the nation on the NCAA tournament. 
"I knew they were going to win, especially when Mateen came back this year," Johnson said on the court as the Spartans cut down the nets. 
"It's been tough waiting these 21 years. but they've been great the last couple of years. and I knew they were going to v,:in it all." 
Michigan State. which beat Wisconsin 53-41 in an ugly all­Big Ten national semifinal. won all six games on its title run by at least 11 points. 
The Spartans closed the sea­son with 11 straight wins and are the first Big Ten team to win it all since Mir,higan in 1989. 
The Observa . SPORTS 
Florida. looking to become the fourth straight Southeastern Conference team to win the national championship in an er,en-numbered year. was mak­ing its first appearance in a championship game. 
The Gators had seven fresh­men and sophomores in their 10-man rotation and this was the first game in the tournament that their lack of experience showed. 
Cleaves had two 3-pointers in the 14-3 run that gave the Spartans a 33-20 lead with 6:51 to play. but a three-point play by Haslem and a basket by Donnell Harvey got the Gators within 35­29 with 4:05 left. 
Charlie Bell and Cleaves sand­wiched 3s around a layup by llaslem and the Spartans had a 43-32 halftime lead. 
luesday, April 4, 2000 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP 
Granger shines in Spartans' victory 
Associated Press 
IN])]J\NAPOLIS 
Most everyone knew :vlichigan State had tho Flintstones. Now the basket­ball world knows about A.J. Granger. too. 
Granger matched his career-high with l 9 points to help the Spartans beat Florida 89-76 on Monday night for their first NCAA title since 1979. 
"We called him the 'X' fac­tor going into the game," Florida coach Ililly Donovan said. "We knew that Mateen Ch~aves and Morris Peterson were going to probably play well and do a good job han­dling our press." 
Peterson led the Spartans with 21 points and Cleaves, despite missing about four minutes because of an injured ankle, added 18 for Michigan State. 
Donovan said the Gators needed to stop Granger from stepping out and making 3­poin t shots. They didn't. Granger was 3-of-8 from beyond the arc. 
Granger, a sonior from Findlay, Ohio. who was rer,ruited in the same class as Cleaves and Peterson, said the Spartans were one step ahead of Donovan. They fig­ured Florida would gamble on spending most of its ener­gy trying to defend Peterson and Cleaves. 
'Tm not the go-to guy, so I got more good shots," Granger said. "They got me open tonight. set some picks l'or me. Then, I just had to make the shots." 
There were other unsung heroes for the Spartans, of course. 
Jason Hichardson, Mike Chappell, Adam Ilallinger all played key roles off the b(rnch as the Spartans beat the Gators at their own warp-speed game. 
"It just seems like some­body on this team steps up 
every night," Grangor said. "Tonight. it just happened to be me and Morris." 

Michigan State also got a gutty pBrformance f'rom Charlie Bell, who isn't nearly as well-known as fellow Flintstonos Cleaves and Peterson. 
During a strntch of about !'our minutes when Cleaves was out getting his right 
• ankle tapped after a hard fall early in the second half. Bell held the Spartans together. 
If the Spartans, leading by six points at the tinrn, were going to fold. this might have been the time. Rut they had been in this situation before -for the first two months of the season. 
Hell played point guard for the Spartans' first 13 games while Cleaves recovered from a strnss fracturf' in that right foot. lie did it again in tlrn biggest game of his life and Michigan State had increased its lead to nine points by the time Cleaves limped bark onto the court. 
But it was Granger who gave the Spartans an unex­pected offensive push ­something they felt would be vital against Florida's in­your-face defense. 
Every time the Gators col­lapsed on Peterson, Cleaves and Andre Hutson. it was Granger who shredded their strategy. He hit 3-pointcrs, drove the baseline for lean­ers in the paint. and battled underneath for rebounds. 
Every time it seemed like the Gators had come up with a stop. it seemed Granger would get the ball and some­how hit a basket. 
Granger has been quietly outstanding during this entire tournament run. He averaged 9.3 ·points during the regular season, but put his game on another level onr,e the tournament started. Granger also scored 19 against Syracuse and 18 against Iowa in the Midwest Regionals. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Ail classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per char,icter per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FULL COLOR  Summer employment: Art educa- Hey, Pooh corner, when are we  
NOTICES  Copying  Printing  lion asst. for Snite Museum of Art.  FOR RENT  FOR SALE  getting those mannequins for our singles next year? I'm planning on  

 Assist Education Curator with sum- using them a lot, so we best get  
Are you moving to Boston next fall  Scanning  mer youth art program focusing on  HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 5-bed- Beautiful brass bed, queen size,  started. (I realize Piglet will be  
And looking for a roommate? Want  THE COPY SHOP  museum objects ancl related hands- room, $1000/month. 2) 4-bedroom,  with orthopedic mattress set and  using them constantly, but I will try  
to live near Harvard Square? I'm  LaFOl1une Student Center  on activities  $900/montti. 3)  deluxe frame. New, never used, still  to keep up a little!)  
going to graduate school and look- Call 631 -COPY  June 5th to July 28th, 1O  3-bedroom, $700. Call Bill at 675­ in plastic. $235. (219)862-2082  
Ing lor a female interested in shar­ hours/week.  0776. We'll make almost any  Mary and Andrea Louise -try not to  
ing an apartment in Cambridge.  Fax it fast•  Fine arts major with exp. teaching  changes to  GET THE HECK OUT OF HERE'  completely become each other  I  
Mass. Catt Emily at 6343142.  Fax it tasti  andior working with children pre­ the houses.  Mexico, the Caribbean or Jamaica  love you both, but two of either of  
forred.  $250 round-trip. World-wide desti­ you running around campus is a  
THE COPY SHOP  Fax it fast!  June 26th to July 28th additional  1721 Rerick: 3-bedroom, Family  nations cheap. 1-800-575-TECH.  scary, scary thought.  
Lafortune Student Center  Sending and receiving  work study hours -it eligible - room with fireplace, fenced back- 
EXTENDED store hours finals wk  THE COPY SHOP  with national youth sports program  yard, c/a, gas heat, across from  '91 Red vw Jetta:  Donkey Balls  
Mon-Fr: 7:30 a.m.-Mid.  La Fortune Student Center  to make a total of 40 hours/Week  park, very safe neighborhood.  New tires, belts, radiator, clutch.  
Sat and Sun: 10:00 a.m.-Md  1f clesired.  $995/month. 12-month lease. Call  Excellent condition. No rust. Great  What better way to spend a  
Our Fax# (219)631-3291  Plus room and board included June  232-4527. Close to campus  mileage. Very sharp. Call (219)277­ Saturday night than staking out the  
Ni;ed help with a project?  26111 to July 28Ul.  9683 after 6 p.m. $3750.  car a certain person was transport- 
Complete Desktop Publishing ser- Call education curator Shannon  (219)340-1844 9616)683-5038  ed to Movies 14 in?  Hmmm can we  
vices are available at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center  WANTED  Masterson, 631-4435, ASAP. Curatorial Assistant  Look! New home for rent 3-4 bedroom, 3-bath, cathedral ceil- PERSONAL  say "stalker''? Hey roomie, all I can say is, I am so  
Call 631-COPY  SUMMER JOB: Caregiver; two chil- Wanted tor Snite Museum ot Art.  ings, fireplace, refrigerator. range,  glad that I am not a man. And we  
dren, ages 7 &8. Mon-Fri, 7:30AM­ Work study is availabl 10-15  disp, dish, washer/dryer. gas heat,  THE COPY SHOP  thought we l1ad trauma.  
THE COPY SHOP  3:15PM.  hours/week for 2000-2001 school  eta, 2-car garage, family room,  Lafortune Student Center  
Lafortune Student Center  Jun 12-Aug 18 Granger  year.  close to campus.  Room 450 is all about Latino rnusi- 
Store Hours  272-6107 or 284-3485  Responsibilities include scheduling  High-Speed Copying  cians. Especially Enrique Iglesias  
Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Mid  tours and entering computer info.  (616)683-5038. (219)232-4527.  Color Copying  That rnan does beautiful things for  
FrL 7:3Dam-7:00pm  Teacher Wanted:  Fine arts major with knowledge of  (219)340·1844.  Resumes  a black shirt.  
Sat: Noon-6:00pm  File Maker Pro and design pro•  Business Cards  
Sun:  Noon-Mid  ND/SMc families need leach er for  grams  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT  Fax Service  Look out Mexico:  
Free Pick-Up & DeliveryI  next year to instruct children in  preferred, but not necessary.  SCHOOL YEAR. GOOD AREA  Desktop Publisl1ing  
Call 631-COPY  home setting.  Cal curator of education Shannon  NORTH.  & a whole lot more'  CK is on her way. Mariachi's  
We're open late so your order will  Part-time position.  Masterson at 631-4435 for more  Prompt Pick-Up & Delivery  beware.  Maybe the nation should  
be done on time  Sa.lary/vacat1on negotiable.  info.  277-3097.  Call 631-COPY  stock up on extra tequila.  
_J  



page 15
Tuesday, April 4, 2000 The Observet . SPORTS 
I FINANCE MAJORS 
I@]  FINANCE C'LUB  @] ;  Baseball continued from page 24 Senior John Corbin record­ed the final five outs of the game to earn his 14th career  allowing seven earned runs on eight hits in four-plus innings. On a brighter note, sopho­more righthandcr Matt Buchmeier. who struggled against Wisconsin-Milwaukee, recorded the final 12 outs,  
I  ELECTIONS  I  save -a Notre Dame record. The Irish also received a gutsy performance from junior ro-captain Aaron  allowing no runs while strik­ing out three batters. The Irish scored their only run in the fourth inning, us  
Heilman Saturday. Heilman  Porzel scored  on  a  sacrifice  
recorded his fifth win of the  fly by catcher Paul O'Toole.  
season  in  the  first  game,  Notre Dame begins a stretch  
pitching bis fourth complete  of nine straight home games  
game while allowing just two  this week.  
runs  to go along with his six  The  team  takes  on  Ball  
strikeouts as the Irish  won 8­ State today, Valparaiso  on  
3.  Wednesday  and  IUl'Ul  on  
Heilman allowed two  runs  Thursday  before  Big  East  
in the third, as  thfl Irish fell  opponent Boston College visits  
behind 3-2. Heilman, howev­ Frank Eck stadium for three  
er,  buckled down  to shut out  games this weekend.  
the Huskies over the last four  Freshman Matt Laird starts  
innings.  today against thn Cardinals,  
"It was  a  very courageous  while Mainieri will use a vari­ 
performance by Heilman,"  ety of pitchers on Wednesday  
Ii ~;I I II  102 COBA FINANCE OFFICE OPEN TO  ;  said Mainicri. "He didn't lose poise after falling behind and ended up taking control of the game again afler we rallied to scorn some runs for him." ln tho second game. tho Irish struggled as their pre­dominantly left-handl'd line­up was only able to push one run across the plate against Connecticut frnshman left­hander Jesse Carlson. The Huskies won by a final sr,on: of 8-1. Senior Scott Cavey lost his firsL game of the season,  before starting righthander Drew Duff on Thursday. "We're 18-6 yet •Ne've played all but three games away from home. That's pret­ty remarkable," said Mainieri. "Now we have a streak of nine straight homP games. Hopefully we can take ·advan­tage of being able to play in the friendly confines of Frank Eck Stadium." All three games will be broadcast on the Internet at www.und.com as well as on WJVA 1580 AM.  

i 
Take a Closer Look at Your Alcohol Use National Alcohol Screening Day Place a check next to statements that are true for you. April 6th 
D Is your personality changed when you D Do you ever have difficulty remembering D When you're sober, do you regret things consume alcohol? the day after drinking? you said or did while you were drinking? 
D When your in a social situation and no D Do you sometimes feel guilty about your D Have you tried switching from one kind of alcohol is provided, do you feel drinking? alcohol to another in an attempt to cut uncomfortable? down on or remain in control of your
D Do you want to continue drinking even drinking, or to try to avoid getting drunk?
D Has drinking ever caused you to be late after your friends say they have had for class or work? enough alcohol? D Do you find that you spend too much money on alcohol?
D Do you sometimes have a drink to help D Do you get irritated when your family or you fall asleep? friends want to discuss your drinking? D Have you ever stayed drunk for a whole day, or became drunk for several days in
D When you drink, do you usually end up D Has your performance at school or work 
a row?
drunk? suffered because of your drinking? D Have you neglected classes, friends,
D Do you use alcohol as an escape when D Hdve you ever done any sexual activity family, work or other obligations due toyour stressed? that you later regretted while you were your drinking?
under the influence of alcohol?
D Do certain friends or places encourage you to drink? D Have you ever spent significant parts of KEY 
If you checked three or more statements,
your day obtaining, consuming, orD Do you crave a drink at a specific time 
examine your habits honestly. Patterns of
recovering from the effects of alcohol? 
every day, like after class or after work? 
heavy drinking behavior in college could leadD Have you ever been arrested for 
to personal, academic or legal difficulties right
D When you are out with friends, do you intoxicated behavior or driving under the 
now, or more serious problems down the road.
ever sneak drinks without their influence of alcohol? You may want to consider making anknowledge? 
appointment atAlcohol and Drug Education for
D Do you get hangovers or headaches after
D Have you ever promised yourself to slow a confidential assessment (1-7970).
drinking?
down or stop drinking, but find you can only deep the promise for a few days or D Have you ever experienced severe If you checked a significant number of weeks at a time? anxiety, shaking or visual or auditory statements, there's a good chance you have 
hallucinations after drinking? an alcohol problem. It's in your best interest
D Have family or friends ever expressed 
to seek help from Alcohol and Drug Education, 
concern about your drinking? D Have you ever gotten into an argument or 
(1-7970) or the University Counseling Center a fistfight while you were drinking? 
(1-7336).
D Is it difficult for you to stop drinking after you've had one or two drinks? D Have you ever lost a friend or created a rift © 2000 University of Notre Dame™ Alcohol Use Screen 
with roommates or family members based
D Do you eat very little or irregularly when Revised 3/20/2000 by hjg.
on their feelings about your drinking?
you are drinking? 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, April 4, 2000 
CLUB SPORTS 
Gyinnastics clubs place fifth at nationals 
Special to The Observer 
The man's and wunrnn's 
Gymnasties teams placed lifth al the national championships last weekend. This was the second top 10 finish for the women and third for the men. 
Sandy .Jenkins placed ninlh in floor exercises and fifth in the balance beam, while her team­mates, Erin Henrv and Allison Miller, finished ninth and 14th in the vault. 
For the men. it was a bitter­sweet finish. The team was in contention for the championship until the end. Mickey MGGarry finished eighth in the floor. vault and parallel bars and seventh in the high bar. Victory was within grasp for the Irish as Jason Miller captured second in the vault. However. Miller injured ligaments in his shoulder and was forced to withdraw from the finals. No points were awarded for his performance. resulting in thf' Irish fall in the standings. Despite the drop. it ,va.s the best combined linish in dub history. 
Equestrian 
Competing in the Purdue Invitational. the Equestrian Club turned in several exceptional performances. · 
Six Irish have qualified for the Hegional competition in two weeks. including Sheridan Griffin. Kristen Jones, Diana Mastej. Laura Anderson. Jackie Neeson and Meganne Hoffman. 
Jones rode to a third place fin­ish in open fpncC's and a fourth place in open 11,Lts. Jloffnrnn gar­nered a fourth place in interme­diate fenr:cs and topped that with a second place in intflfnrn­diate l1ats. Nesson was awarded both a second pluc1~ in novice fences and a iirst placn in inter­mediatn !lats. Andt'rson grabbed second in novicP. flats, while Marv Barter eanrnd 11rst placfl fini;hes in both novice fences and novice llats to carry away high poinl rider honors. 
Cycling 
Purdue was the venue li>r this week's intf'rcollegiate cycling open. CyclisLs Pai. Cloud and Jeff Smoke finished in the top 25 of the Men's B road race. 
Sailing 
Eleven midwcst teams gath­ered at Eagle Lake this weekrnd for Notrn Dame's Icebreaker Begatla. The Irish A team. .lack Gaither and Amy O'Connor. fin­ished third. while Urn B team, Matt Cassady and Srmn Donovan placed semnd. 
Field Hockey . 
The Field I lockev Club hosted Lake Shore Club ol· Chicago and played to a 3 -3 tie. J.H. Doria scored two goals for the Irish while Colleen Harkins tallind the third. The team will return to action at Stepan Field on April 
29. when it hosl'i the University ol'Chkago. 

WOMEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Belles struggle at first meet 
By KATIE McYOY Assi<t;1nr Sports Ediror 
Tht: Saint Mary's track team dropped its first r.onfcr­once meet of thll s!lason to Alma and llope this Saturday al llope. 
The Hope Flying Dutch outscorr.d tho Belles 143-10 and ,\lma topped Saint Mary's 127-25. 
With only 10 women com­peting, the Belles faced Lhe problems of a small team. 
"We couldn't run all of' the rnlays and that was frustrat­ing," freshman Bridgette tlorne said. 
The small team is going to be a problem the Belles will be faced with the enlire sea­son. 
"It's a challenge. Because we don't have any depth, we aren't going to win. So we have to focus on individual goals," Kate ZimmP.r said. "/\s long as we do that we won't get too discouraged." 
Despite its size, Saint Mary's boasted some very impressive individual perfor­mances. 
Erica Burket led the Bellos in points scored. Burket took first place in the triple jump against Jlopc with a jump of 
33.17 feet. She also claimed a second-place spot in the 100 meter hurdles against !lope with a time ol' 17 .2 sec­onds. Burket's 4 foot. 10-inrh jump gave her first place in the high jump against Alma. 
Teammate Lauren Brown joined Burket in the field events. Her 32-4 throw put her in second plac11 in the shot put against Alma. 
Erica Fulmer finished third in the 400 meter dash with a ti.me of l:18 against ltope. Joining Fulmer on the run­ning team were Katie Zimmer and the Saint Mary's 4x400 team. Zimmer took third place in the 5,000 meter with a time ol' 22:24 and the 4x400 team finislrnd second against Alma. 
Despite their low linish the Belles f'clt good about this meet and have high hopes for future meets. 
"Evr,ryone improved." 
llorn1! said. "It was  a  better  
day for everyone."  
Zimmer  agreed  with  
llorno's perspective.  

"t think we did a lot better [this wCTekJ," she said. "It wasn't as windy. and having a meet under our belts rnally helped." 
The Saint Mary's women are looking to keep their spirits up and improve on their individual events. 
"As a team we want t.o keep spirits high," Horne said. "With a small team it's hard. We want to keep motivated even though it can be hard against big teams." 
Zimmer explained that their goals are now "to keep improving our times. Our workouts are getting more intense and I know the .sprinters want to improve their times." 


INSURANCE MUTUAL FUNDS TRUST SERVICES TUITION FINANCING
I 
Why is TIAA-CREF the #1 choice nationwider 
The TIAA-CREF Advantage. 
Year in and year out, employees at e_ducation and research institutions have turned to TIAA-CREF. And for good reasons: 
Easy diversification among a range of expertly 
managed funds 
Solid performance and exceptional personal service 
Strong commitment to low expenses 
• Plus, a full range of flexible retirement income options 
With an excellent record of accomplishment for more than 80 years, TIAA-CREF has helped professors and staff at over 9,000 campuses across the country invest for­and enjoy-successful retirements. 
Choosing your retirement plan provider is simple. Go with the leader:TIAA-CREF. 

Proven Performance  
Low Expenses  
Highly Rated  
Quality Service  
Trusted Name  


1 800 842-2776
Ensuring the future for those who shape it."'
~ w w w. ti a a -cref .·o_r g 
• According ro DAL.BAR, iflc., a financial seNtces research firm. In its mon recent swdy, 1991 DefiMd Contriburion &cell1nttRatings, TIAA-CREF was voted number one in partici­pant satisfaction. TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services. Inc. distributes CREF certificates and interesu in tN!' TIAA Real Estate Account. Teachers Personal Jnvestors Servic5, l.nc. distribute~ the variable component of the personal annuities, mutual funds and tuition savings agreementt. TIA.A and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co. issue insurJnce and annuities. nAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. lnves-.t produ<ts ore not FDIC insured. may !me value and ""' not bank guarantNd. for more complete inf0<mation on oursea.,rities products.including charges and exp,,ns"', call 1800 842-2776,ext. 5509, for the prospectuses. Read them carefully before youinwst Of Sffld money. o 2000 TIAA-CREf 1/00. 
Tuesday, April 4, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Hargrove falls to former team in Orioles' debut 

four straight two-out singles. ing his debut with the Orioles,
Associated Press 
The Orioles. meanwhile. subsequently allowed an RBI showed two annoying habits single to Omar Vizquel.
Miki' llargrovc's firsl game 
they displayed in 1999 under Bartolo Colon (1-0) yielded
as managN or the Baltimore 
former manager Hay Miller. one run on three hits in five
Oriol!!S produced little rhangr~ 
Baltimorn. which ranked innings, walking six and strik­
in his nPw IP.am -or his for-
third in the AL last season .in ing out six. Steve Karsay, the 
.mt'r on('. 
leaving runners on base, fifth Indians pitcher, worked 
Baltimore 
stranded nine against the the ninth for his second major
arP Mikn 
Indians and went 1-for-10 league save. 
Mussina 
with runners in scoring posi­The Orioles went up 1-0 in
r<\lirnd 23 
tion. the s0cond when Colon walked 
ol' tlw f'irst 
Tile Oriolns also went 1-9 two and Bradv Anderson hit a
2 :i battns 
against Cleveland last year. a two-out RBI single. After 
!,p l'i11·Pd. 
trend that continued ou open­another walk. 13.J. Surhof'f
but Travis 
ing day. struck out with the bases 
Fryman 
r.al Hipken, who Pntercd the loaded. 
and KPnnv 
game needing ninP hits to Mussina reli.rcd the first
l.ol'lon h(t 
rf'arh :~.000 for his rarr.Pr. hit seven Cleveland battflrs befoni
solo homPrs to lead lhc 
a bloop double in the second Fryman tied it in the third by
ClrwPland Indians lo a 4-1 vic­
inning and went 1-l'or-4. His driving a 2-0 pitch over the 
torv Mond,tv. 
hit totaL postP.d in large block wall in centPr. Mussina then
l>11ring hi; X 1/2-y!~ar run in 
numerals on thP warehouse mowed down the next 10 bat­
Cl,wiiland. llargrovc built tlw 
beyond the right-l'iHld wall. ters before Lofton connected. 
lndiitns into a power-hitting 
now stands at 2.992. The Orioles had two on and 
unit that relied lrnavily on the 
Mussina pitched well. but il two out in the seventh before 
long ball. He was !'ired in 
wasn't good enough to give Vizquel ran from shortstop to
October. but that philosophy 
!largrovc a victory in this medium left field to catch a
rPmains under Charlie' 
much-anlicipatcd matrhup blooper off the bat of Delino
M,rnuPI, who won his debut as 
against his former team. OeShields. 
a major lr,ague managPr. 
Mussina allowed only two hits
Lofton. who torP a rotator 
through the first seven innings
cuff in tlw playoffs last year. Rangers 10, White Sox 4 
-both homers -before tir­
\-\as .initially exp!'<"tPd to hp 
ing in the eighth. The Texas Rangers opened
oul until thl' All-Star brnak. 
Singles by Fryman, Sandy the post-Juan Gonzalez era
llis homPr in the sixth 
Alomar and Lofton put 
with quite a bang.
s11app11d a 1-1 lil', and lhP. 
Clevflland up 3-1 and chased 
Gabe Kapler homered in his
Indians pull<~d. away in the 
Mussina. Mike Trombley, mak­first two at-bats for Texas and
dghth by scoring lwo runs on 
H H ta ii 88 H B9 H U 6B H U II II
~~ftftftft~~~ 
ft ft ft LOOKING FORA ft 
• ft ft ft BIG MOVE THIS ft 
ft ft ft FALL??? ft 
ft ft
SEE WHAT
ft ft ft ft 
ft CAMPUS VIEW ft ft ft 
Ir.\. 
IS ALL ABOUT ft ft ~ ft ft ft
272-1441 
AL MVP Ivan Rodriguez drove in five runs with two more homers. treating the largest regular-season crowd in team history to a victory over the Chicago White Sox in the opener. 
The power show was a nice welcome-home gift for Kenny Rogers. even if he didn't need it. 
Rogers (1-0) kept the ball down, coaxing most of his outs on ground balls -including four double plays -as he won his first game for his original team following a four-year absence. 
Hogers allowed one run in eight innings. It was a nice start for the lefty, whose final appearance in 1999 for the New York Mets saw him walk home the winning run against Atlanta in the clinching Game 6 of the NLCS. 
The opener drew 49,332 fans, more than 2,000 more than last July 4. and featured former President George Bush throwing out the first pitch. They also saw the Hangers debut new blue "alternate" jerseys. 
About the only things that didn't go great for Texas were the weather and the bullpen. In addition to clouds and cool­er-th an-usual temperatures, high winds forced a pregame parachute jump to be can­celed. 
Nothing seemed to go right for Chicago. 
Mike Sirotka (0-1) walked the leadoff hitter and went downhill from there, allowing seven runs -six earned -in 4 1-3 innings. He gave up four homers, two more than ever before. walked two and hit a batter. 
Third baseman Craig Wilson, who beat out hot-hitting Greg Norton because of his glove, set up Texas' four-run fifth by booting a likely double play grounder and made another error-on a routine ball in the seventh. 
Wilson's second error put Kapler on, which was only fit­ting because the day belonged to him. 
Kapler. acquired in the November trade that sent two­ti me AL MVP Gonzalez to Detroit, was 3-for-4 with three RBIs, three runs and instant status as a fan favorite. 
Kapler also jarred the ball loose from catcher Mark Johnson to score and, appro­priately enough, caught the final out. 
Fans in right field, where Gonzalez roamed the last five yPars, gave Kapler standing ovations when he came back out after each homer. The 
entire stadium oohed and aahed after several strong throws to third and home. 
His first homer came on a waist-high fastball and put Texas up 1-0 in the second inning. Rodriguez made it 4-0 with a three-run shot down the left-field line in the third. 
Then Kapler put the first pitch of' the fourth inning into the left-f'ield scats, making him the first player ever to homer in his first two at-bats as a Ranger. 
Not to be outdone, Bodriguez jumped on a 3-0 fastball for a two-run homer in the fifth. Kapler drilled a single up the middle off reliever Tanyan Sturtze later in the inning for his third RBI, and later scored. 
An RBI single by Luis Alicea drove in Texas' final run in the seventh. 
Chicago scored in the third on a double-play groundout by Mark Johnson, and didn't get another batter past first until the seventh. 
The White Sox scored three times in the ninth off three relievers. 
Rogers walked two. Through six innings, he had fared one more than the minimum. 
Blue Jays 5, Royals 4 
Tony Batista and Shannon Stewart got the Toronto Blue Jays off to a great start. 
Batista homered twice, including a game-winning drive in the 10th inning, and Stewart also connected for two home runs as the Blue Jays opened with a victory over the Kansas City Royals. 
Just 40,898 fans, 10,000 under capacity, were at SkyDome, and the crowd included 10,000 school kids who got in for free. 
Batista, who had 31 homers and 100 RBIs last season, hit a two-run homer off Jeff Suppan in the fourth and connected again in the 10th off Jerry Spradlin. 
Last year, the Royals blew 39 of their 59 save chances. 
Toronto closer Billy Koch got his first career win after wast­ing a 4-2 lead in the ninth when Gregg Zaun hit a two­run single. 
Stewart hit opposite-field homers to right-center in the first and fifth innings as the Blue Jays took a 4-0 lead. 
David Wells, who hadn't pitched since March 26 because of back spasms, took a shutout into the seventh. when Jermaine Oyc hit an RBI double. 
Joe Randa then had an RBI infield single off Paul Quantrill. 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents
ft ft 
1filbe J!otre 1J.Bame QCborale &
ft ft
ORSTOPBY: 
<!Cba1nher Q&rcbestra
ft ft 
Alexander Blachly, Director Byrd Bach
ft 1801 IRISH WAY ft 
Lassus Schutz Messiaen 
ft ft 
8:00 p.m. Wednesday, April 5, 2000
ft ONLYASHORTWALKFROMCAMPUS!! ft 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Free &open to the public. www.nd.edu/-music for more info 
ft ft 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ il!!J W!!Hi~!!l ii!!Hil.!!l ~ ~ il~!Hil~J ~ il!!l M 

. 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, April 4, 2000 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Florida defeats San Francisco 6-4 in season opener 
because of bark spasms. was a Galarraga, then connected on a Galarraga finished 1-for-3 Mets 2, Padres 1 
As.ociaced rress 
late lineup scratch. 1-0 pitch against his former with a pair or strikP.outs and 
i-:or one night, at least. the f,'lorida Marlins look1•d a lot bet­ter than thev did in 1999. 
Or in 1998. 
A I C X Fernandez outpitchcd former teammate L i v a n Hernandez. and tht> Marlins beat the S a n Francisco GianL,; 6-4 Mondav in the season opener for both teams. 
Florida won't be printing World Series tickets just yet. Last year Fernandez pitched the Marlins to victory in their open­er. but they lost 16 of th<~ next 21 games and finished with the worst record in the major leaRtIOS for the second consecu­tive season. 
The day wasn't without a major setbar:k for Florida. I lours before. the first pitch, Gov. Jeb Bush said ht~ opposes cruisfHax legislation to help finance a new ballpark for the Marlins. 
Bush's threat of a veto proba­bly kills tlrn plan pushed by Marlins owner John Henry and leaves the financially troubled team in limbo. 
Other than that, a sellout crowd of 35.101 had plenty to cheer about. although there were several thousand no­shows. Some fans stayed home to watch the Florida Gators play Michigan State for the NCAA championship. 
Fernandez allowed eight hits and thrne runs in seven innings. He also drove in a run in the sixth. taking a 3-2 pitrh to right field for a single and a 5-3 lead. 
Offseason acquisition Dan Miceli pitched a perfect Pighth. and Antonio Alfonseca gave up a homer to Ellis Burks in the ninth in getting a save. 
Preston Wilson went 2-for-4 with two RBIs for the :\llarlins, who had l 2 hits and won their fourth consecutive opener. 
Two San Francisco errors in the fifth inning cost Hernandez a 3-2 lead, and he left. after giving up nine hit<; and live runs. three earned. in six innings. Ile was the Marlins· opening-day pitcher two years ago and was traded to the Giants last July 24. 
The Marlins. who struggled offensively in spring training. took a 2-0 lead in the first \'Vith consecutive doubles by Cliff Flovd. Wilson and Mike Lowell. 
'fhe Giants tied the game in the third. lfornandez singled with two out, Marvin Benard singled and Uill Mueller tripled them home. 
JeiT Kent tripled leading off the fourth and scored on J.T. Snow's RBI groundout to put the Gianl'i ahead 3-2. 
Florida went ahead with two unearned runs in the fif'th. !\like Redmond singled. Alex Gonzalf1z reached on an error by shortstop Rich Aurilia. and Cliff Flovd walked to load the basl's. Wils~m singled home a run. and Gonzalez scored from second when left fielder Barry Bonds bobbled the ball for an error. 
Danny Bautista singled home Florida's linal run in the eighth. 
Cardinals 7, Cubs 1 

Mark MrGwire's aching back was the only bad news for the SL Louis Cardinals on opening day. 
McGwirc. who missed the last two spring training games 
Ilis replar,emcnt at first base. Craig Paquette. lined a three-run homer in the first inning. and his replacement in Lhe cleanup slot. Fernando Tati-;, also had an HBI single, a wa.lk and two steals in a victory over the Chicago Cubs. 
The other half of the latest Mr.G\vire-Sammy Sosa squareoff also was quict in this op1rner of the llome Bun Central. the divi­sion that also features Ken Griffey Jr. 
Cardinals starter Darryl Ki111 struck out Sosa twice and also got him on an infield popout. Slammin' Sammy also fanned in his final at-bat. 
Cubs starter Kevin Tapani. who gave up five runs in four innings. couldn't use the Tokyo trip as an excuse. The team left him behind on the two-game Japan split with the New York Mets so he'd be rested for his iirst start. 
Tapani was one strike away l'rom a scoreless first when Tatis's single drove in Fernando Vina. who led off the first with a triple off the center-field wall. 
After Jim Edmonds walked, Paquette lined the first pitch he saw -a hanging breaking ball -over the left-field wall. 
The Cardinals made it S-0 in the fourth when Mike Matheny doubled and scored on a two-out single by Vina. who had three hiL'> in his Cardinals debut. 
Kile, 8-13 with a 6.61 ERA last vear with the Colorado Rockies. allowed one run on two hits in six innings as he won his third straight opening start. He didn't allow a runner past first until the fifth when Shane Andrews got an infield hit. Damon Buford walked and Joe Girardi was hit by a pitch to set up a sacrifice fly by pinch-hitter JeIT Heed. 
lleathcliff Slocumb, Mark Thompson and Dave Veres each pitched an inning in the com­bined three-hitter. 
Shawon Dunston. who sur­vived the final cut as the 25th man in a competition with Eduardo Perez on Sunday. made it 6-1 with a pinch-hit homer off Matt Karchner leading off the sixth. Eric Davis, still not 100 pflrcent after rotator c:uff surgery last August. homered olT Andrew Lorraine in the seventh. 
Braves 2, Rockies 0 
Andres Galarraga quickly showed the Atlanta Braves what they were mis~ing last year. 
Galarraga. out last season because of' a cancerous tumor in his back, hit a go-ahead solo hom0r in the seventh inning that led the Braves to a season-open­
in g  win  over  the  Colorado  
Rockies.  
Andruw  .Jones  followed  

Galarraga's 400-foot drive with another homer off Pedro Astacio. 
GrPg Maddux improved to 6-0 on opening clay, allowing five hits in 7 2-3 innings. The four­time Cy Young winner struck out six and walked l~o -both intentionally, and is 9-2 against Colorado. 
With John Hocker starting his 14-day suspension. Mike Hernlingnr pitched I 1-3 innings for his fourth career save. Hocker, penalized by commis­sioner Bud Selig for derogatory remarks against gays. foreigners and minorities, was introduced during pregame ceremonies. when the Braves received their NL championship rings, and was cheerPd. 
Allanta had just two hits off Astacio in lhe first six innings. 
tram. and the 38-year-old first baseman jogged around the bases as the crowd of 42.255 stood and cheen1d. 
The cheering got louder and louder as Galarraga made his way to the dugout and continued until he reappeared and doITed his cap to the crowd. about 8,000 below capacity due. 
"I feel rPally good. I feel really comf'ortable," Galarraga said. "I'm hoping to contribute all yPar." 
Galarraga drew his first stand­ing ovation when the team was announced in pregamn cere­monies. then drnw another when he led off the second inning. Ile rcaclrnd on that at-bat when he was hit by a pitch on the right hand on a 2-2 count. The crowd booed. 
showed he hadn't lost any of his defensive prowess. 
I le leaped high to catch a liner off the bat of Todd l lelton in the · seventh, then made a diving stop near the line of Astacio's one­hop smash with two ouL'> in the inning after the Hockies had loaded the bases. 
That grab saved at least two runs. 
Maddux had his most trouble in the seventh. Jeffrey Hammonds lined a two-out grounder off the pitcher's right foot and the ball caromed into left field for a double. 
Neifi Perez then frillowed with an infield hit off Galarraga's glove and Bret Mayne was walked intentionally to load the bases. setting up Galarraga's diving stop of Astacio's ball. 
Derck Bell hit a ticbrcaking homer in the eighth inning in his iirst game for the Mets at Shea Stadium and New York, behind a well-rested Al Leiter. beat the San Dingo Padrns in their season re-opener. 
Leitnr (1-0) didn't make the 7,200-milc trip from Port St. Lucie, Fla.. to Tokyo for the sea­son-opening two-game series against the Chicago Cubs and looked fresh because of' it. 
No longer thn. Mel.<;' ace after the team acquirr.cl 22-gam,1 win­nc r Mike Hampton. Leiter pitchP.d like a No. 1 starter in his first game since not retiring a batter in Game 6 of the NI.CS against Atlanta last year. The left-hander allowed one run, five hits and no walks in eight innings, striking out seven. 
NEW PANCAKE -MI N I S™-J UST 9 9 ¢ I EAT A DELICIOUS BREAKFAST ON YOUR WAY TO WORK WITHOUT WEARING I TI 
DELICIOUS, SILVER-DOLLAR SIZED PANCAKE-MINIS~ 
l~IRODUCIMG GREAI-TASTIWG. BUTTERMILK PANCAKE-MINIS: THEY'RE THE 
PERFECT  SIZE  FOR  DIPPING  1/JTHOUT  DRIPPING  AS  YOU  RACE  TO  WORK,  
FOR  A  LIMITED  TIME,  GET  SIX  FOR  JUST  99¢.  ONLY  AT  BURGER  KING'.  
The Huddle -Lafortune Student Center  

Tuesday, April 4, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
SOFTBALL 
Irish sweep Friars, split doubleheader with Huskies 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
_Spom Writer 
'.'Jotrc !lanw sof'Lba!I moved lo 26-9 ovPrall and :)-1 in tlw l3 ig East follow­ing wPr:kPnd play. 
Tlw Irish ,·,.rnPd two confrnincc wins as thPy d(•fnatnd Providr:n!'e on S1111d:n·. 
··1 W;LS n•a.lly plP,tst-'d with our offense toda\·. I think tlrnt w1· <·.ame out an<l hit LIH• hall WPII." said head roach Liz i\lill<•r. ··we maintained that offense throughout. both ganws whirh was important 1'spccially going into game two. ;\ lot of t.inws wh<'n you scorP a lot of runs in ganw nnP. you trnd to let down f'or ganw twu." 
Nolrf' Danw rad-.l'd up ·14 hits for a 
IG-0 wir1 in ganw one. 
Ml'lanic> Aikin' scored from lirst 011 a doublP bv Jarrnh ~IVPrs to kir-k orr the Irish in Lhl' top of lhP lirst. bdon~ they combined for night runs in the bottom of the• spcond . .Junior Lizzv l.emirn dou­bl,;d and sconid while Danielle Klayman and Sharron both singled to drivP in runs. Freshman Andrea Loman doublPd to driv1• in lhrne runs while Bl!'dscw also doub(f'd to gain a RBI bcforP sruring lwrsdl'. 
Notre Dame rackr,d up six more runs in th1; bottom of tlrn third. Sophomorn Hebe<'.Ca Eimen doubled to deep centf'r to dl'ivP in a run befor,; Alkire slammed a three-run home run over thf' fence. Freshman Lisa Mattison doubled to drive in a run before scor­ing on a singlP by Hoag. The Irish srored onre more in the bottom of the l'ourlh as Mattision doubled again to drivt' in tht• final run. 
Sharron grabbed her eighth shutout of tlw year whilr. allowing just two hits and striking-out six. 
In game two action, Notre Dame con­tinued to win the offensive battle with elevPn hits to Providrnre's three. Notre Dame grnbbcd five runs in the second and onf' in the third. Providence showed a strong effort in the fourth as tlrny scored three runs, but the Irish mat('hed them in thr bottom of the inning with three of their own for the Jina.I score ol' 9-:{. 
"We always need improvement." said Miller, "We didn't gel some bunt situa­tions. We didn't P.xccute them well so we'rn rPally going lo forus on those." 
The Irish kirked off the weekend with a split decision to Connecticut Friday. 
With a 5-4 loss in game one, Notre Dame lost ils first conference game sinre 1998. 
Tht) llhskics grabbed an early lead with two runs in the top of the second befon, .JennifN KriPch singled in the bottom of the inning to drive in a run for thP Jrish. 
Connecticut scored three more in the fifth lo extend their lead to 4-1. I a the bottom of the scvt>nth. Notre Dame's Kas Hoag doubled to send in two runs befon, scoring herself on a single by Jennifer Sharron, bringing the final score to 5-4. 
The Irish came back strong in game two as thev defeated the Huskies 3-0. Freshman Andria Bledsoe grabbed an infield single with bases loaded to drive in Notre Dame's first run. Kriech sin­gled in the bottom of the sixth to drive in the last two Irish runs_ Pitcher Michelle Moshe! (6-4) earned her third shutout while allowing just three hits. 
The Irish, after a cancellation of today's games against DePaul, will play again on Thursday as they travel to Western Michigan. 


,­
! 
i 
I page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, April 4, 2000 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Texas claims sixth-straight victory over Notre Dame 
By RACHEL BIBER 
:Sports Writer 
The Texas Longhorns seem to haw• tlrn Irish game plan all fig­ured oul. 
For the fifth straight time and for the sixth time in the last seven vears, the 10th-ranked Longhorns musterPd a late­match rally in order to Texas 4 slip past the 
Notre Dame 3 
30th-ranked Irish men's tennis team by the score of 4-3. 
The Irish. who fall to 9-8 with thP loss. split six singles match­es with the Longhorns, but lost the doubles point to surrender the rnatr.h. 
With the defeat over Notre Dame. Texas secured their ninth straight dual-match vir.to­ry this sea.son and eighth straight win over Notre Dame. This win brings their overall record to 16-2 on the vear. 
"It was a tough on~ to take." Irish head coach Bob Bayliss said. "'We played rnally well." 
Saturday's matd1 was shifted from Austin to San Antonio due to inclement weather. A deri­sion was also made to play sin­gles matches first in the event that doubles would not be need­ed. 
All-American and 13th­ranked Ryan Sachire breezed past the Longhorn's 68th­ranked Brandon Hawk 6-1, 6-1 at No. 1 singles to give the Irish a quick 1-0 lead. Casey Smith then locked up another win for Notre Dame with an impressive 6-4. 7-6 (7-2) defeat over Texas' 25th-ranked Michael Blue. 
"It was a big win for Casey," Bayliss said. "It's a big jump back into the thick of things for him. becaw,e he has had some tough matches to play recently. He has had to play some good players." 
The Longhorns did not let up and evened out the score with wins at Nos. 2 and 4 singles after the completion of the first four singles matches. Matt Daly was topped by Texas' 59th­ranked Nick Crowell 6-2, 6-4 at No. 2 singles. while Javier Taborga was defeated by the Longhorn's Jean Simon 6-4, 6-2 at No. 4 singles. 
Andrew Laflin providr.d the Irish a narrow :{-2 edge with a 7-5, 6-3 victory over Texas' Ron Kloppert at No. 6 singles. The Longhorn's Craig Edmondson rallied for a 6-7 (7-5). 6-2. 6-1 win over Aaron Talarico at No. 5 singlos to forco the doubles action to be the deciding factor 
in the match. 
While Edmondson ·was wrap­piug up his comeback win over Talarico. Sachiro and Trent Miller came away with a hard foughl 9-8 (7-5) victory over the Longhorn's Hawk and JorgP Ilaro at No. 2 doubles to put Notre Dame within one doubles victory of its first win over Texas since 1993. 
The Irish Wflfe stopped short. however, when the Longhorns rallied once again with 8-6 wins at Nos. 1 and 3 doubles to secure the dual-match victory. Texa.s· third-ranked duo of Blue and Crowell overcame Tabnrga and Talarico at No. 1 doubles. The lrish's Smith and James Malhame were defeated bv Kloppert and Stephen Patak a:1 No. 3 doubles. 
Both defeats in doubles play came down to the wire. 
"We had eight break points against Texas [in the No. 1 dou­bles match] and they only had one against us. but they con­verted and we didn't, and it was that r.lose." Bayliss said. "In the third doubles we actually were up an early break. and then they got it back to even. We were in pretty good shape. and then [Texas] held in a close game and clinched the match." 
After the tough loss, the Irish are glad to have some time off. and do not return to action until April 13 against Michigan. 
"We don't play for 10 days. and I think the goal now is to reallv work on some skills we need·to improve and make some improvements." Bayliss said. 

ATRlA SALON 
289-5080 1357 N. IRONWOOD DR 1 MILE FROM CAMPUS 
MODELS NEEDED FOR SHORT HAIR CUTS WOMEN/MEN FOR TRAINING CLASSES 
MUST MENTION THIS AD JUST $10.00 

NOTRE Il:iME:·BASEBALL
4 ,,:.c.;. • ' /\ T~J~~Q,~~EK ~ 
Today vs. Ball State 5:00pm Wed. April 5 vs. Valparaiso 5:00pm Thurs. April 6 vs. IUPUI 5:00pm Sat April 8 vs. Boston College (2) 12:00pm Sun. April 9 vs. Boston College 12:00pm 


f,  • Oe/fiH,,-;,tJ Tie fi_~ Rzza.1 [3©[}~ ~u:l® @ . ©®~ l1m©0cf1G:l~HH  
12 Anytime Anytime you call between you call between 5:30 & 7:00, 10:30-12:59 9 9 the price of yourthe price of yourI 2 large 1 large 1 topping topping pizzas pizza is the time you call.is the time you call. * Plus tax* Plus tax  
r-------------,Lunch Special1 1 1 Small 1 Topping 1 ND store I 2 Cans of Coca-Cola product I Saint Mary's/ I $5 99 I •L ______..:_ ______.J North Village Mall271-1177 .271-PAPA  

NOlRE0AME SOFTBALL 
Today vs. DePaul 
3:00 pm 
fl'-________________________________..,.._____________________________ ---~---­
page 21
Tuesday, April 4, 2000 l'lle Observer . SPORTS 
NHL .,. 
Kovalev leads Penguins to 3-2 win over Hurricanes 
period Monday night as thr. Pr,nguins star Jaromir Jagr, A•.mci..red Press 
Pittsburgh Penguins br.nt tho who returned for Saturday's loss Carolina Hurricanes 3-2 and to Philadelphia after missing two AIPxf'i KovalPv scored twicc s1.rengthoned thnir hold on a games with a sore bar,k, was 
within :n snconds of' tlw second 
playoff spot. held scornless for the gamfl and 
HoLv~ossAtsocIATEs 
"My Associate year was the most influential experience of my life ... " 
Int.e,;.~~s-te'l'\·a····'•>•-··~'.:·•1fiitta,f~::!Pea:;1•~;,;.:0 1····'''''';'t!$.i:;
1'•''?f;,:5,,,.-...-,~e"'~t~1,~,•··""~-e 
. -· -.. I'-~ ., .. . ;·-,_,;..~';~\.,_ .,.,,u-~E~i........-....,,..~~dtk.o:.:~l:,,.. · '· .!::/;J,,,i;,/~~~~~i~..~•,ih1~)ij,; 
Applications for HCA are being accepted on a rolling basis until all positions are filled. The 

"Four Pillars" 
ofHCA 
Community Living Service Simple Lifestyle Spirituality 
Applications available on our website. 

Associates are eligible for AmeriCorps Education Awards and Loan Deferments. The Education Award 
is $4,725 towards loans and/or future education. 
Serving in Arizona, Colorado, Massachusetts, Oregon, and Pennsylvania 

http://www.nd.edu/-hcassoc/For More Information call 631-5521 nd.hcassoc.1@nd.edu 

TONIGHT 
Ellen Bravo 
Co-Director of 9 to 5 National Association of Working Women 
"Why All Employees Need A Women-Friendly Workplace" 
Tuesday, April 4, 7:30 PM 
Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium Reception with food in Greenfields Cafeteria following talk 
Since 1973, 9 to 5 has worked to improve the workplace for women. This organization, which inspired the movie, "9 to 5," has helped win protections against sexual harassment, greater access to family leave and child care, and changes in women's pay and promotion opportunities. Bravo is the author ofThe 9 to 5 Guide to Combating Sexual Harassment and The Job/Family Challenge: 
A 9 to 5 Guide (Not For Women On(v). She is a well-known speaker on working women's issues and is frequently interviewed by the media. 
CAMPUS INFORMATION: 631-8093 
Co-Sponsored by the Economics Department, Law School, Gender Studies, American Studies Dept., Higgins Labor Research Center, Center for Social Concerns-South Bend Heritage Partnership for Community Development 
The Hesburgh Center is the first building on the right on Notre Datne Ave as you enter campus. 
Free parking in the Bookstore lot across the street on Not.-e Dame Avenue. 
without a shot for the first two periods. 
The victory gave seventh-place Piltsburgh 84 points -three more than Buffalo. The Hurricanes fell to ninth place, a non-playoff position. The Penguins have three games lflfi. 1111 on the road, compared with Carolina's two. 
;\rturs lrbe gave np three goals in 3:37 of the second after shutting out Philadelphia on Sunday. 
Jiri ·slegr pu1. a 2~-foot shot past lrbe's left leg at 3:19 and Kovalev had two goals in the sixth minute. Kovalev's first was nnassistfid and unimpeded after he skated free behind the net. Then, with his back to lrbe, Kovalev flicked tho puck over the lrbe's right shouldflr. 
Kovalev then had half the net open for his second goal. set up by Robert Lang and Martin Straka. 
Kovalev had the game-winning goal with Jagr out against New Jersey last Tuesday and has 26 goals, including three game-win­ners, and 39 assists in 79 games. 
Hobert Kron's wrist shot on a short rebound or Bates Battaglia's 20-foot shot gave Carolina a 1-0 lead after 7:36 in the first. 
Hurricanes center Rod Brind'Amour left in the last minute of the second period with a mild concussion after a check from Bob Boughner, who got a five-minute penalty for boarding, and a game misconduct. Carolina did not score during the long advantage. 
Penguins goalie Jean-Sebastien Aubin left 4:12 into the third after bending over backwards to try to stop a shot by Sean Hill. Aubin was replaced by Ron Tugnutt. 2-2 since being acquired from Ottawa on March 14. 
Panthers 5, Devils 2 
Pavel Bure scored his league­leading 56th and 57th goals and extended his points streak to a career-high 12 games as Florida beat New Jersey. 
The Panthers, 5-1-1 in their last seven games, scored three straight goals against Devils goalie Chris Terreri, who was subbing for Martin Brodeur. Panthers goalie Mike Vernon stopped 39 shots and is unbeat­en in his last six starts. 
Florida left wing Peter Worrell, sidelined two weeks by a concus­sion, returned to action without any serious incident. 
New Jersey's Scott Niedermayer hit °vVorrell over the head with his stick March 19, earning a 10-game suspen­sion, and several Devils players vowed payback for Worrell's throat-slashing gestures toward the bench. 
Worrell also threatened Niedermayer, but only four penalties were called through the first two periods Worrell and Colin White got five-minute major penalties for fighting in the third period. 
The Panthers hoped Worrell's situation wouldn't be an issue, so they could stay focused on the importance of the game. 
The victorv moved the Panthers witlln a win -or a loss by Ottawa -of clinching the fifth playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. 
New Jersey could have used a win as well. The Devils arc seek­ing to stay atop the Atlantic Division and capturn home-ice advantage throughout the Eastern Confcrenre playofls. 
The Devils. 5-5 in their last J0 games, took a 1-0 lead in the first period on Sergei Brylin's 18th goal. Ile deflected Ken Oaneyko's shot from just inside the blue line and beat Vernon. 
Florida got two goals in a span of 22 seconds in the closing min­utes of the first and led 2-1 at the intermission. 
Sabres 3, Maple Leafs 2 
Dixon Ward's early go-ahead goal stood up and Buffalo's sti­fling defense did the rest as the Sabres beat the Toronto Maple Leafs and moved bark into play­off position. 
Miroslav Satan and Mirhael Peca also scored for the Sabres, who limited the Maple Leafs to eight shots during the final 40 minutes. All of the game's scor­ing took place in the first period. 
The Sabres -6-1 in their last seven games -moved back into eighth placr. in the Eastern Conference standings, jumping over Carolina which lost at Pittsburgh. Buffalo. with 81 points, leads the Hurricanes by one point and Montreal by two for the final playoff spot 
Buffalo and Montreal have three games remaining, while Carolina will play only two more. 
Mats Sundin and Sergei Berezin scored for Toronto, which set a team record with no shots on goal in the second peri­od. 
The Maple Leafs had never gone without a shot on goal in a period in the 45 years the league has recorded the statistic. The club's old record was one shot in a period, done 10 times and most recently in 1994. 
Curtis Joseph kept the Maple Leafs in the game, stopping 26 shots. 
The Northeast-leading Maple Leafs. who have three games remaining, wasted an opportuni­ty to clinch their first division title since the NHL went to that format in 1967-68. 
The last time a Toronto team finished first was in 1963 when there were only six NHL teams. 
Buffalo goalie Dominik Hasek wasn't tested much, but he made a brilliant game-saving stop. robbing Jonas Hoglund's one­timer from the slot with 6:31 left. 
After the teams scored two goals apiece over a 4:29 span in the first period, the Sabres went ahead to stay on Ward's fluke goal with 4:43 left in the frame. 
Maxim Afinogenov set it up when he circled the net and directed a shot towards the crease, where Ward was battling for position with Toronto's Gerald Diduck. With Ward look­ing away, the puck deflected off the back of his skate and through Joseph's legs. 
Capitals 4, Rangers 1 
Joe Sacco had his first two­goal game of the season, lifting the Washington Capitals out of their mini-slump in a come­from-behind victory over the New York Rangers. 
Sar.co scored on a breakaway and during a delayed-penalty rall, both in the ser,ond period, as the Southeast Division-leading Capitals broke a two-game los­ing streak. 
Washington moved within two points of New Jersey in the race for the top seed in the Eastern Conference playofls. 
Glen Metropolit and Jeff Halpern added goals in the third period. Adam Oates had two assists, moving him into 12th place on the NIIL career list with 893. 
Petr Nedved scored in the first period on a 5-on-3 po,ver play for New York, winless in seven games ( 0-6-1 ) . 
4 
I 
I 
• i 
i 
I 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, April 4, 2000 
SOFTBALL 
Saint Mary's drops doubleheader to Goshen 
I 
I I 
I 
I ~ I I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I I 
l l ­

By KAREN SCHAFF Sports Writer 
The Helles' softball team was not in best form as it lost both of tlinir games to the Goshen Maple Leafs. 
Saint Mary's had troubln both defen­sivelv and Game 1 
at th; plate Goshen 12 throughoutboth con-Saint Mary's 4 
tf1sts. The 
BellAs lost Game 2 their first game 12-4. Goshen 13 e n d i n g Saint Mary's 2 
after the firth inning hecaust' of the slaughter rule. The ser:ond game did nut prove to be any better with a score of 13-2. 
Goshen came out hitting very well. They had two home runs in tho fourth inning of the first game totaling five runs. The Maple Leafs' third and fourth batters were consistently on base. 
The Maple Leafs found the holes in the Belles' defense. Saint Mary's had fin errors whir,h gave the Maple Leafs six unearned runs. Sophomore Kristin Martin pitr,hed game one, giving up six earned runs in five innings. 
The Belles r,ame out strong in the second game, but let the game slip away as it neared the end. 
"They let [Goshen] chip away at them," head coach Joe Speybroeck said. 
.I unior Anne Senger pitd1ed game two and held the Maple Leafs to only three runs by the complotion of the t'ourlh inning. Saint Mary's, howewr. had four errors and gave up nine unearned runs by the completion of game two. Goshen's Candy Feare hit a grand slam in the seventh inning. 
The l,(1lles Pnded tlw games with 14 hits and ninr total eri·rirs. Goshen had 27 hits alld only fivr. errors for the day. 
The high point of Saint Mary's day was freshman ont­fi elder Katie Murphy. Sh<' ended tlrn day with a triple and a double in the first game and a triple and single in the sec<md. 
"Today didn't reflect our team's talent," Murphy said. "We just didn't have it togeth­er today." 
Speybroeck and assistant coach David Martin both thiuk the team needs to work on batting. 
"We have to hit consist~mt­1y." Spcybrocck said. "We have go to get thfl bats swing­ing.·• 
Martin agrees and foels the team needs tu play with more than just improved hatting and fielding skills. 
"This is an emolional game," said Martin, "Thov weren't playing with emotton today, and we need that." 
Both coaches hope to increase the confidence of the team for Wednesday's double­header at Calvin College. 

Topping Pizza 
every tuesday 
271-0300 
Call today and 11 am-2am sun-thurs mention this ad!! 11am-3am fri-sat 
Tuesday, April 4, 2000 The Observa . TODAY page 23 

FOURTH AND INCHES 
Fox TROT 
Al<E "(ou ROAMING 
\iEEERE, 
QUINC.Y GU1NC( 
ARouNt> TI-IE HOUSE 
SoME.WHEREr 
QUINCY. 
A ~ I
~c;-~ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 38 Form of 1 One of the . 
evidence, these 
worlds in "The days War of the 39 Frankfurt's river Worlds" 40 Crescent 
5 Baby's first shapes: Var. word, maybe 41 Skill 
9 Designer Donna 43 Word for Yorick 14 Touch on 44 Stars and 15 PC pie Stripes land 
16 Alpha's opposite 47 Compassionate 17 Kennedy 48 End of the quip matriarch 51 Verso's opposite 18 The N.F.L.'s 52 Ancient Greek Aikman colony 19 Dentist's 57 Mrs. Gorbachev request 
61 Speaker of the 20 Start of a quip quip 22 Stuffed bear 63 Cockeyed 23 Cache 64 Gyro meat 24 Final approval 66 Prefix with 28 Quip, part 2 second 34 Paul Simon's 
67 Cubic meter "Slip_Away" 68 Devil's doing 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS""P"U..,Z-:-Z..LE:c, 

T O N O A A T E NE M 0 N A Z I S 
oaters T R E X 0 P E N S 
designer 53 Title holder 
TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 
HE'S lct(:,HT HERE tN HIS CAGE. 
PAIGE,
\ SILLY ww;0 ~Qt 
ME. ST-"!DING ON 'l'OUR
\omsr 

69 Town on the Thames 70 Model at work 71 Like Marilyn Monroe 72 Learning the times table, e.g. 
DOWN 
1 Home run champ until 1998 
2 Up's partner 3 Rene of "Tin 
Cup" 4 Beef on the hoof 5 Catcher's need 6 Unlike this 
answer 7 Jersey greeting? 8 • luck?" 9 Bow and scrape 
10 Grenoble girlfriend 11 Foxx of "Sanford and Son" 12 Like fine wine 
13 Word before "a 
soul" 21 Ledger entry 25 "Then what?" 
26 Hither's partner 27 Wrap in 
bandages 29 Make certain 30 194 7 Oscar 
winner Celeste 31 Light bulb, figuratively 32 Chattanooga's
home: Abbr. 
54 "Rad!" 59 Alibi (excuse makers) 
55 Comeback in a kids' argument 60 Withered 56 Make amends 62 With adroitness 57 Coarse file 64"_Miz" 58 Concerning 65 Forum greeting 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
..
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 
R.0.T.C.: Revealing your future when Uncle Sam damn well feels like it. 
beam.1@nd.edu 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Robert Downey Jr., Craig T. Nelson, Anthpny Perkins, David Garvin 
Happy Birthday: Finish what you start. If you take on too much, you'll fall short of your goals. You will reach success only if you are selective and focus on what you do best. It's all right to help others, but don't let your generous nature interfere with what you are trying to achieve. You may have plenty of en~rgy, but you must channel it properly. Your num­bers: 6, 13, 17, 29, 32, 37 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your temper will get out of hand if you don't get your way. Curb your tantrums if you want to save the rela­tionship. You may want to join self-awareness groups. Soul-searching will be a must. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A secret love affair will be not only unhealthy, but short-lived and emo­tionally destructive. Think twice before you jump; chances are you're only looking for some excitement. 
000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't overspend on unnecessary luxury times. You will be able to meet excit­ing new friends, but don't offer to pay their way. You will have oppor­tunities to do things with children. 
0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You mustn't make hasty decisions. You will upset your home environment if you've taken a risk that involves the family estate. Expect to have more people living nnder your roof. 00 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your out­going nature will help you meet interesting people. You may be put in a position to lecture. You'll be able to get your point across clearly. New relationships look stable and 
EUGENIA LAST 
lasting. 00000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will handle other people's money and possessions well today. Travel should be on your mind, and so should activities that will be con­ducive to passionate encounters. 
000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Your partner will be erratic, and you will be in a state of panic. Channel all your energy into making love, not war. You can make things work if you are willing to bend to each other's needs. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your mate will be much harder to deal with than your boss will. Keep your work and personal life separate. Don't get backed into a comer. Get all the facts before you make a decision. 
000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Develop a new hobby. Do things you enjoy for relaxation. Lately, all you seem to be doing is work. Social events will lead to a passionate rela­tionship. 00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You and your partner have not been completely honest with yourselves or one another. Back up and see if you can salvage your relationship. Situations have gotten out of hand. 
00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Relatives will not be pleased with you today. Don't be too pushy about your intentions unless you are pre­pared to face opposition. You need to get away by yourself for a while. 
0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You mustn't let others talk you out of your hard-earned money. You are far too giving. Tuck something away for a rainy day instead of letting your cash slip through your fingers. 000 
34 Meat loaf serving 
35 Lollapalooza 36 the finish 37 Half a 50's 
sitcom couple 42 Decorated 
Murphy 45 [not my error] 46 Toward the rear 49 Cash register 
part 50 Star of silent 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Birthday Baby: You are h~ppy-go-lucky and wi!Jing to t"!<e on the world. Your energetic nature and willingness to go the distance will enable you to achieve throughout your life. . . . 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadv1ce.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
... 
© 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 

Christmas in April Benefit Run 
~ ~ ~~ ~m Plus i Mi\e Wa\K 
'5aturdai, /\pri\ S, 11:00 f\M • '5tepan Center 
-r-'f>hirtr, to a\\ l49i~trant& • \2-t.git>tt-r in Advance at tzu~portt> $(,.oo In Advance. or $1.oo D~ of \2-a,e. • Dead\ine for Mvanc.e rtgir>tratioo i& ?:OOpm on 4/1 ~dent and 'i>taff Divif>ionf> 



Sponsored By 

MOTlE DAM( FOOD S£1VICU 

... 
I, 
• 

Don't mess with Texas 
JarJier Taborga and /,he
.. 
men's tennis teamf<>ll to the Texas Longhorns 4-3 in a match this weekend.
PORTS 
page 20 

O
THE 
page 24 BSERVER Tuesday, April 1, 2000 
=============----==========-=======~~--=--=--=--=---=---=---=---=---=--==~=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=-=-====-=-=============================================================== 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP 
Michigan State crowned champion with 89-76 win 
but it had the drama thanks to C:IPaves, 4:29 latrr. But thn senior guard who Cleaves was 7-l'or-11 from tlw finld ­
Associated Pres< 
tlw Spartans' limping leader who needed missed the l'irst 13 games of' the season all the shots coming bf'!'ore he was crut!'hcs for his injun~d 11nkln atlnr c•dp­while rncovcring l'rom a stress fracture in injurnd -and had 18 points and four
INDIANAl'OLIS 
brnling with his teammates, his right ['oot, was again tho team's emo­assists.
This lime then' was no Magic, just "I le has the heart of a lion. lle has do110 tional leadnr. Cleaves returned for his senior yearMateen. 
it !'or !'our years, not just one," "lichigan I !is long pass tfr Morris l'<'terson for a after many thought he would go to tlw
Mirhigan State, with Magir· Johnson 
State coad1 Tom Izzo said, "That's why layup made it (i0-50, Ile was lnvelc1d while NBA.
rhr.ering in the 

you lov11 him. He's what our program selling a scrnr.n a fow minutns latnr but it "This is what I came back here for," hP 
stands. won its sAr­rmbodirs." was enough to spring A..I. Grnngrr for a said.
ond national rhampi­
Cleaves, lhe ganw's most outstanding 3-pointPr that started a 16-6 run that "This is as storybook as it gets for 
onsh.ip as !\fa.teen 
player, rollRcl his ankle early in th<> s0c­made it 84-(1(1 and put the game away. Mateen," Izzo said. "Ile gave up a lot of'
Cleaves led the 
ond hall' and had to go to the lor.kcr room Michigan State had been on a mission money, a lot of things to be back here,"Spartans to an 8()-7 (1 to have it taped. Earlier. he helped tlrn since losing to Duke in the Final Four last The Spartans (:,2-7). the only top-seed­
vinory over Florida 
Spartc1ns build a 43-:12 hall'timP lead hy scHtson. Anything short of' a national ed tiiam to real'l1 the Final Four, finished on Monday night. 
sroring 13 points, including going 3-for-:1 championship would havr bilcn a disap­33-for-59 from the fiPld (56 percent), thc>It was 21 years ago from :1-point range, and negated Florida's pointmAnt. best against Florida's f'rantir pace by far
that the Izzo
champi-vauntf'd l'ull-<'ourt pressure with hls ball­"Wr made some promises. Wr in the tournament. The previous best was
onship gamP 
handling and passing. answered the promises," Izzo said, 43 percent by top-ranked Duke in the
between l\lichigan 
"I told thf'm hf''II bc~ back. L<'t's not get Cleavns certainly didn't beat Florida by regional semifinals. 
State and Indiana State -Magic vs. Bird our heads down," [zzo said. "I just knew." himself, Mir.higan State never seemed f'azed by-rhanged the L'.tndscape of coll()ge bas­When Chiaves left with 16:18 to play the Peterson finished with 21 points on 7-the pressure, beating it early with longketball. 
Spartans Jpd 50-44. His teammates got for-14 shooting and Granger had 19 and 
This ont~ may not have the magnitude, 
the lead LtJ 58-50 by the time he returned was 7-for-11 from the field, 
see MSU/page 14 
BASEBALL 
Irish split doubleheader, take rubber match 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Sporrs Writer 
Lrd by two strong pitching performances and a stellar weekend by shortstop Alec Porzel, the Irish improved their season rer.ord to an impressive 18-6 as they 
Game 1
won two of 
three games Notre Dame 8 last weekend 
Connecticut 3
against 
Connecticut Game2 in Storrs, 
Connecticut 8 
Conn. 
Notre Dame 1
After split­ting a dou­Game 3 ble-header 
Notre Dame 9 
on Saturday afte rn o o 11·. Connecticut 2 the Irish
,. 
proved their resilience by coming back to 
in a dominating 9-2 victory in the third game against the Huskies. Freshman righthander J.P. Gagne, com­ing off a short stint in Notre Dame's loss to Wisconsin­Milwaukee on March 29, sr.at­tered seven hits over scvrn innings, staying out of trouble 
and only allowing two Connecticut runners to cross the plate. 
"I reallv hadn't started a gamP this ·year when> WP went out and did that well," Gagne said. "It was nice to go out lheri' and have the offense do so wdl." 
-
of lhe season, to load the Irish able to concentrate more than been moved up to the leadoff sparked our team with three The offense was led bv 
offense. wf' usually do f'or a wl'ekend spot in the lineup, added three base hits," head coach Paul junior shortstop AIPc Porzel. "A lot of the guys seenrnd series." hits. Mainieri said,who collected four hits. 
really comfortable this week­Sophomon> designated hitter "Kenny hasn't played much. including his third home run end," Porzel, said. "We wore Ken Meyer, who has recently I put him in and ho really 
see BASEBALL/page 15 

Sofrball ac Purdue at Georgetown vs. DePaul ~-, Wednesday, 1 p.m. Wednesday 3:30 p.m.
•·~•r•l
SPORTS ~ 
Today, 3 p.m. 
ATA 
Baseball Sofrball Men's Golf 
• 
vs. Ball Scace at Calvin at Marshall Invirarional Today, 5:05 p.m. e Wednesday, 3:30 p.m. Friday-Sunday
GLANCE • 








