
What? Where? When? 
Then and Now 
Friday
Keep track ofCommencement activities 
How have Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
on both campuses with The 
changed in the last 100 years? Read about the 
Observer's schedule ofevents. 
classes of1900 and 2000. 

MAY19, 
Inside . page 2 
Scene . page 22-23 

2000 




The Independent Newspa,per Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

VOL XXXIII NO. 132 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


ND, SMC graduate 2,311 in last class of millennium 
By LAURA ROMPF 
Assisram News Editor 

Four years, 40 finals apd 47 football games; hun­dreds of Yo-cream cones, walks around the lakes and candles lit at the Grotto; thousands of laughs, prayers and tears. 
Countless memories and lessons learned. 

Through each of these events, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have left their mark on the 2,311 graduating seniors. And simultaneously, the Class of 2000 has left its mark on the University and the College. 
One day, two commencement speakers and two valedictorians; hundreds of Kleenexes, photographs and hugs; thousands of relatives, diplomas and con­gratulations. 
Countless smiles and promises to keep in touch. 
And now, each of these events will mark the Class of 2000's final milestone at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame -Commencement. 
Graduation marks a transition period for the seniors and thus, they are expressing mixed emo­tions. 
"We alJ came here from different paths and clif­ferent directions. to this one center. Here we have lived, laughed, loved and shared our lives together for the past four years," said Notre Dame senior Michela Anne Costello. "Now God is picking us up in his hands, pushing us in different ways and blowing us all over the world. However, I know we will be connected forever through Notre Dame, through faith, and through our friendships." 
Notre Dame senior Margaret Oakar added that during this time, she is grateful that she was able to attend the University. 
see FAREWELL/page 4 


Yoder, Wild earn honors as 2000 valedictorians 
• Saint Mary's names business major, mother as best in 2000 class 
By KATIE McVOY 
News Writer 
Working for the grades to become Saint Mary's valedictorian can be a dif­ficult task, even if you 're not busy rais­ing a child. But Jayme Yoder did just 
that. Twenty-live-year­
oId Yoder, who lives in Goshen, Ind .. vvill graduate as the valedictori­an of thP class of 2000 with her hus­

band and daughter 

Yoder 

watching. After graduating from high school. Yoder went to Indiana University at 
Bloomington for a year before she got married and took some time off from school. Her husband, Carlin, was her high school sweetheart whom she met on a blind date. 
A year after their daughter Caitlin was born, Carlin started his own busi­ness and Yoder kept books for him. 
"I really like doing bookwork for Carlin," Yoder said. "So I decided I wanted to go back to school." 
Choosing a college can bt~ a difficult decision, and Yoder attributes choos­ing Saint Mary's to God. 
"I didn't want a commuter campus; I wanted the community," she said. "I am so glad I ended up at Saint Mary's and I think there was a little divine intervention present." 
Divine intervention would not sur­prise Yoder, who,-along with her hus­band, is a youth pastor at Siloam 
see SMC/page 4 
. ND Honors Program grad aimed to earn professors' respect 

By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY 
News Editor 

Though she admits that she invested much of her time in study and that her prime focus at Notre Dame was acade­mics. Class of 2000 valedictorian Elizabeth Wild never expected to merit the honor. 
In fact, she says she was flattered even to be consid­ered. 
"I wanted to do well, ... but I never 



Wild

really expected [to be valedictorian,!" said the history and computer applications double major, noting that she was unaware that the University bestowed such an honor until her junior year. "I never really gave it much thought." 
Instead, Wild focused on earning the respect of her professors through her academic work, which she found to be more personally rewarding. For her Honors Program thesis, Wild composed a 200-page novel addressing the role of the influence of technological advance in the lives of children. The project was one of four chosen for presentations in the program's final colloqiurn. 
Although academics were a focus, Wild found time to pursue a number of extracurricular activities as well. In addition to being a four-year member of Lewis Hall football and basketball teams, \Vild served as a peer counselor for freshmen in the Honors Program and volunteered at the Early Childhood 
see ND/page 4 



-
Friday, May 19, 2000
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 

INSIDE COLUMN 

The Last Time 
About nine months ago. a good friend started getting sappy. Heal sappy. 
It started on tlw road trip to Michigan -the last road trip to l\1ichigan we'd ever take as undPrgrads. That day we took the last steps out of' Michigan Stadium we'd ever take as Notre Dame students. And, of course, tho post-game meal of ham­burgers and Labatt's Blue was the last of its kind. 
For the ride home. we tossed our buddy into the station wagon's trunk because in September, we didn't want to think about the last anything. \,Ve still had a quarter of our college memories to make~. We shouldn't be getting depressed yet. There soon would be plenty of separa­tion anxiety. For now, we'd just enjoy it. 

But my good friend's insistence on remember­ing the last gas fill-up on 80/90 and the last keg of first semester festered in my mind. I decided I'd carrv a camera to events and shows and games to record every moment -Who knows when it might be the last? 
Today I have a plethora of posed group shots perfect enough to be an ad for Notre Dame prospectives or for Miller Lite, depending on the publication. But looking through the photos, I wonder whether I'll remember college as a Kodak slideshow where everyone wears his favorite mustard-stained ND sweatshirt and leans his head toward tho guy to his right. They \V<~re great times -formals and parties and tail­gates -but they only happened once every so oftPn. Of so many days I have no pictures. 
Now, I wish I'd photographed all the small things. \Viii I remember the twPr-wrong clock on O'Shaugnessy shining brightly on a dingy South Bend night? Or recall that if' you drive exactly 35 miles per hour south on 3 I. you'll hit all the lights as they turn green? Will I forget that it costs 50 cents to wash and $1 to dry. and that movies play at Cushing on Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights? 
I hope I remember all the random things like shopping for fajita ingredients at Martin's with my roommates and running through campus in a green toga with the McGlinn Shamrocks. I hope there's a photo in my mind of our house at 6 a.m. after a party. when the floor is slick with 'Backer sludge and soggy grilled cheeses rot in the sink. 
I even want to carry thoughts of the bad stuff, like every Spanish final I've ever taken. And the day of hangover after my 21st. And Lou lloltz's face when he told us leaving was "the right thing to do." 
Unrecorded memories of trite moments ­hours of class in De Bartolo, frosty drives home for Christmas break, smoothie runs to Heckers ­will not make it into scrap books or picture boxes. but they remain part of our experiences at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. They am late­night moments in which the smiling friends cap­tured at SYRs and birthday dinners shared sto­ries of high school and romance and family and became, well, friends. 
So I suppose my friend had it right when he demanded we respect every single moment of our senior year ... and of our lives. Because every instant is dear and every last second counts. 
Even the onB when your friends throw you in the trunk of the station wagon. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Anne Marie Mattingly Viewpoint Erin Piroutek 
Lila Haughey 
Erin LtRuffa 

Scene 
Laura Rompf 

Amanda Greco 
Kare Nagengast 


Graphics
Sports 

Jose Cuellar 
Molly McVoy 

Lab Tech 
Kathleen O'Brien 

Liz Lang
Kerry Smich 

!"he l >l>,crvn (U:il'\ 'i'J') 1-4000) i, publi,hed .\tund.,r dirough Friday nccpt ,!mini-\ n,,rn ;111d \',K,11io11 period,. Tht' Ol"ervn i, a mt'mher of rhe :\w,i:i;ned l'r""· :\l'I rcpwducrion rlf\111, ,ire rest·rvcd. 


ND, SMC award honorary degrees 
By KATE NAGENGAST News Writer 
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame will award honorary degrnes to distinguislwd fig­ures in the fields of nduca­tion, the arl'i, science, busi­ness, civic affairs, govern­ment, litcraturn and the Catholic Church at their commencement ceremonillS on Saturday and Sunday, respectively. 
"[Notre Dame I looks to honor people who distin­guish themselves in their personal lives and in any number of fields," said Dennis Brown, associate director of Public Helations and Information. 
Recipients Include: 
. Kofi Annan, secretary-
general  of  the  United  
Nations  
. Connie  Binslield, former  

li,~utcnant governor of Michigan 
. 
James Bjorken, an internationally respected physicist 

. 
Archbishop Agostino Cacciavillan, formerlv the Vatican's ambassador to the 


U.S. 

. 
Violeta Barrios de Chamorro, formerly the president of Nicaragua 

. 
Hobert Good\vin, president of the Points of Light Foundation 

. 
Eleanor Josaitis, executive director and cofounder of Focus: HOPE 

. 
William Manly, Notre Dame alumnus and an international leader in engi­neering 

. 
George Rickey, interna­


tionally acclaimed artist 
. Hobert Welsh, Notre Dame alumnus and chief executive officer of \Velsh, Inc. 
Saint Mary's will present four honorary degrees. "All of tlw rocipicnts wcr<) cho­Sf'n because they am pio­neer women in each of their fields," said Elizabeth Station, assistant to tho president at Saint Mary's. 
Recipients Include: 

.l 
lelena Maria Viramontes, author of Latino literature and English professor at Cornell University 

. 
Sister Margaret Rita Brennen, noted theologian 

.Sister 
Brigid Driscoll, pres­ident ofMarymount College 

. 
Bernice Johnson Reagon, internationally admired performer and academic 


Highest-ranking seniors will serve as flag bearers for the 155th Commencement exercises of the University of Notre Dame. They are: 
College of Arts and Letters 
Charley Gares Andrew Bellizzi Pedro Reyes 
Mendoza College of Business 
Charles Miles David Spinola Joseph Zulli 
College of Engineering 
Nicholas Glassmaker Kevin O'Neil Lauren Destino 
College of Science Andrew Bellizzi Gina Lusardi Kevin Friedman 
School ofArchitecture 
Tiffany Haile 


Schedule ofevents 
Friday 
9 p.m. -I a.m GRADUATION DANCE Joyce Center -North Dome 
Saturday 
2 -3:15 p.m. UNIVERSITY RECEPTION 
McKmna Hall 
5-6:30 p.m. COMMENCEMENT MASS Joyce Center -South Dome 
6:45-8 p.m. GRADUATION DINNER Joyce Center -North Dining Hall 
Sunday 
12;30 p.m. DISTRIBUTION OF BACHELOR AND MASTER DIPLOMAS Joyce Center -North Dome. 
1:30 p.m. ACADEMIC: PROCESSION Joyce Center -North Dome 
2-4 p.m. COMMENCEMENT AND 
CONFERRING OF DEGREES Joyce Center -South Dome 
4:30 p.m. LAW SCHOOL DIPLOMA CEREMONY 
Hesburgh Library Reflecting Pool 
Frida 
9 a,1Jl;Jhrougli1lunch 

0, 

McKenna wins Laetare Medal 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame will rPcognizc Andrew McKenna, chairman of the University's Board of Trustees since 1992, with the Laelare Medal, the highest honor tlrn University bestows and the oldest given to AmPrican 
Catholics  at  
Sunday's  com­ 
mencenwnt.  

"llle hasl not only dedicated time and resources to many charitable causes -but also, by example and IPadcrship, IhasI led others to dedicate themselves as well," said University President Father Edward Malloy. 
McKenna, a 1951 Notrn Dame gradu­ate in business administration and mar­keting, and his wifo, Joan, made the largest single gift for student scholar­ships in University history. The Center for Continuing Education was named McKenna Hall in their honor. 
McKenna remains especially active in his hometO\,vn of Chicago. There he has served as director of the archdiocese's Big Shoulders Fund and the Childrnn's Memorial Ilospital of Chicago. He is a l'ormor chairman of the Board of' Trustees of the Museum of Science and Industry. lie is currently a director of tho Chicago Bears, the Chicago Cubs, McDonald's Corporation and Tribune Company. 


LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeadier "'forccasi for davtime conditions and hid, remoeraturcs  
H L 61 48Friday ~' 69 51Saturday ~ 72 54Sunday ~ 75 57Monday ~ 78 58Tuesday ~  

4,~-~GQQ 
Showers T-storms Ram Fl~r;,es Sno::;, Ice 
V,a Assoc,ated Press Graph,csNe/ 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather'I' forecast for noon, 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
Prtnure· 
. ·::~;,z\~i~':•·

® © D D ITJ D D 
High Low .
Showers Rain T~storms flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Y18 AssocsatBd Ptt1ss 

Atlanta 87 63 Las Vegas 94 66 Portland 74 51 Baltimore 74 53 Memphis 82 60 Sacramento 89 56 Boston 60 49 Milwaukee 53 46 St. Louis 69 53
~ ~ ~ 
Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 62 50 New York 67 52 Tampa 89 69 Houston 87 72 Philadelphia 74 54 Washington, D.C. 75 56 


Fridav, , Mav' 19, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Trustees vote to replace Beauchamp I Board gives 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
'.\lews Writer 

After I] yPars as nxecutivn vicn presi­dn nt. th<• Board of ;rrust<H!S voted to n•movn Fatlwr VVilliam Beauchamp and r P pIa r <' him w ith I\> r m P r associa t n provost Fatlwr Timothy Scully. 
Tlw movP did not ronw as a surprisP 
to lfrau<"hamp. 

"W<· had had discussions about it," Beauchamp said. "This wasn't somn­thing romplt:tt>ly out of tlw bltw." 
T lw Ia s t yP a r ha s bl' P n a s P r iP s or scandals and successPs l'or Bnaud1amp's olTin•. \VhilP tlw (;p1wratio11s campaign has raisPd S944 million, far surpassing tlw goal ol' $7(>7 million. tlw athl<\tic dPpartnwnt l't•II undPr atlack from tlw \;CA,\. :\s <'XPcutivP vicP prnsidPnt, HPaurhamp ovPrsaw tlw athlPtic depart­ment \\hich rt'!'Pivl'd its l'irst major penalty and sanctions in D<!('('mber 1999. Because of improper gifts to foot­ball playnrs from boostPr Kim Dunbar, the NCAA stripped tlw Unin~rsity of two s<'holarships and plac<•d tlw tPam on probation !'or two y<•ars. 
In rnsponsP to tlw sanctions, athlPtic di rector Mich a Pl Wadsworth rnsigrwd and O\"t>rsight of' the ath!Ptir dPpartnrnnt \\'as tra11sfl'1-r11d l'rom the officP of tho nxPcutiv,• vir,, pr<!sid<'n t to thn dirnct control ol' Malloy in February. 
The ne\, structure of' tho athletic d<>partment more closely rnsembles that of most universities and had been planned for sometime, according to Beauchamp. He also dons not believe that the scandal surrounding the foot­ball led to his replacement. 
"That wasn't llrn messag<\ I was given by tlw trusW<~s or by the president," he said. "It wasn't implied that this situa­tion could have been avoidnd if we had dorn• something different. I don't think that is tlw issue here at all. It was just a matter of' that we had talked about il and this was a good tinw to do it." 
Pro ha tion. h ow1~ver, is a sou rr,e or 1\mbarrassnwnt J'or tlw University but Beauchamp asst~rts that tlwr11 was never a loss of institutional rontrol O\ nr tlrn athlt~tic dPpartnwnt. 
"Nobody at tlw University was phiased that tlwrn \Vas a major violation," lw said. "I think that it was important that tlw NCAA made it very cl111u that tlrny still consid1\rod Notrn Danw to have a model program.... So I am disappointed and I would not even begin to suggest that this would rwv<>r happen again in tlw l'utttrP." 
Tlw Cencrations campaign, startnd fivP years ago, has btwn a source of pri(lt\ ror thn University. Tlw f'undraising campaign has paid l'or surh improve­nwnts as tlin rnnovation of tho Main Building, thP construction ol' tho new bookstoro, the new campus ministry building and thi' golf quad dorms. ;\Ith Oll g h G(\ 11 ('rat iOn S iS St i II a f'e W months away from c·omplPtion. Bnaurhamp is not 1·oncPr11Pd with t!w rutun' of tlw proji'ct. 
"Anytime you leave. there would always be something that I would be in the middle ol'," be said. "I am not com­ple ttdy stepping away from the University. I am going to continue to be very involved in tlrn Genorations cam­paign and a number of other responsi­bilities at the University." 
Those new responsibilities will include rnmaining as a memb1~r of the Board of Trustees and tho Board of Fellows as \Veil as working closely with l\1alloy to plan the future of' th(~ Univorsity. 
"It would be mon~ in planning and d1~v1dopment and the future of the University," Beauchamp said. "The University is so complex that we can get so busy as officers in specific lines of responsibility that sometimes we don't have the capability to stt1p back and say 'OK, what are the real issues and long term things that we should be looking at?'" 
Scully, 46, mov1~s from the academic side of the administration into the finan­cial side. 
"I am grateful to assume new respon­sibilities in an office where so much has been accomplished with such great sue• ccss in re<,ent years," Scully said in a prepared statement. 
As executive vice presidPnt Im will be responsibl(: for overseeing operations of the University ranging from construction of new buildings to ovcrs1•(•ing tlw <' n cl o w m en t . U n d ,, r B e a u c h a m p th e 

endowment grew from $400,000 to $3.3 billion. While Scully's primary expertise lies in politics and academic research, Malloy feels that he will do well as the executive vice president. 
"[Scully] is a very bright and energetic and creative person." Malloy said. "He will bring his own set of gifts to the job and I look forward to working with him. [The executive vice pn~sident] needs to have the skills to oversee the operations that report to the office. 
"lie doesn't have to be a master of investment strategy in order to ask good questions and implement plans for investments and finances and the physi­cal part of campus and all the other things that are part of the job." 
Scully and vice president of student affairs Father Mark Poorman arc both in line to possibly be the next president of' Notre Dame. The promotion of Scully to executive vice president was designed to increase the number of young Holy Cross priests with administrative experi­ence at Notn~ Dame. 
"Father Beauchamp and I have talked numerous timf~s throughout the years how to give the next generation of Iloly Cross leadership the chance to have experience and display their own gifts and talents," Malloy said. "When the time comes for my successor and for other individuals in major jobs, there will be a pool of' f~xpericncnd pPople to draw from." 

The life and times ofFather Beauchamp 
May 17, 1942 -Born in Detroit 
1964 -graduates from the 
University ofDetroit 

1972 to 1975 -attends 
Notre Dame law school 
January 1977 -enters Moreau Seminary 


1981 -earns Masters ofDivinity 

April 17, 1982 -Ordained 
1980 to 1987 -serves as executive assistant to Father EdmundJoyce 
1987 -becomes executive vice president 
December 1999-Notre Dame football team placed on probation February 7, 2000 -Malloy transfers 
control ofathletic department to 
the Office ofthe President 
May 5, 2000 -Board ofTrustees replaces 
Beauchamp with FatherTimothy Scully 
as executive vice president 
July 1, 2000 -Beauchamp to officially turn executive vice presidency over to Scully 


Malloy 5 more years 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
News Writer 
The Board of Trustees voted May 5 to renew Father Edward Malloy's contract f'or five more years as University president. 
The Board also elected Patrick McCartan as the new chair of the board and madn outgo­ing chair Andre\'\' McKenna a lifQ trustee. 
"It's nice to have a voto of con· fidence from the trustees," Malloy said. "I said thank you very much and now I \viii just get back to doing what I was doing." 
The Board conducted an evalu­ation of Ma11oy's 13 years as president before the vote. An important factor considered by the Board in evaluation of' Malloy was his expansion of the interna­tional program at Notre Dame. In the past few years, the University has opened new facili­ties in Dublin and London. The London program will also expand to include a summer pro­gram in 2001. 
V\lhile the face of campus has changed greatly because of the construction of new dorms, a new bookstore and the Campus Ministry building that will open in the fall, Malloy lists the expan­sion of scholarship opportunities as his greatest accomplishment. In his next term, Malloy hopes to expand the scholarship endow• ment and create more chaired professorships. 
"I think scholarship has domi­nated the last few years," he said. "One of the things that we have been successful in our cam­paign is emphasizing people and programs and not buildings. Even though the things that peo­ple notice are the buildings and there have been significant building projects. for me that is 
just a small part of what we have accomplished." 
Malloy will also oversee the next University.wide review and the creation of a new 10-year plan next year. 
"I will be artiq1lating things as time goes on but that will be the big University-wide effort to identify what are goals should be for tlw next fmv years or our his­tory," Im said. 

Mccartan earned an honorary doctorate of laws l'rorn the University last year and has served on the board sinrt• 1989. Ile is the managing partner of Jones, Day, Reavis & Pogue law firm and is a UnivPrsity FPllow. 
7'.kKenna, who will rt>rPive the La Pta r P nw d a I S u n cl a y at CommPlll'.!'l11Pnt. retirPs as chair aft«~r sPrving on the Board for the last 20 yPars. The Board under McKenna ov<•rsaw the opening of the new London pro­gram building, rejPcted the amendment of the non-discrimi­nation clause to protnct homo­
sexuals and turned down  mem­ 
bership  in  the  Big  Ten  
ConferencP.  



page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, May 19, 2000 

SMC 
continued from page 1 
MennonitP Fellowship. Slw also volunteers at the Interface Hospitality Nct\\'ork, a local homeless slwlter. 
Sh,~ showed the same dedica­tion to her schoolwork as she does to volunteering. 
"I treated school like a job," said Yoder, who is graduating with a 4.0 in business and administration with a concen­tration in accounting. 
But Yoder will take away more than just the grades she earned at Saint Mary's. 
"Teamwork is what I'll remember most about Saint Mary's, pulling all-nighters with the other women in the department. Tlrnre's something about working with other peo­ple that makes you click." she said. 
"I would like to take tlrn sense of comm unity with me and reestablish it wherever I go," she said. "I feel like l'm losing 
ND 
continued from page 1 
Development Center. In reflect­ing on her Notre Dame experi­ence, Wild noted that she has found it difficult to fulfill the image of the "typical" Notre Dame student because no one person can do everything while doing it well. 
"It was a lot more work than I thought it would be," she said. 
But the work was not without its re\vards. Wild was pleasantly surprised to discover that the legendary "Notre Dame family" was in fact a reality and counts meeting Father Theodore llesburgh, University president emeritus, for lunch among her greatest Notre Dame memories. Spending a semester at Notre Dame's Washington, D.C., pro­gram presented her with the opportunity to meet Hosa Parks and President Bill Clinton, as well as to Sf~e the opening proce­dures in last summer's impeach­ment trial. 
Wild attributes much of her success to the example set by 

that part of the school." 
Following graduation Yoder will begin her job at McGladrey & Pullen, an international accounting firm in Goshen, where she will be auditing. 
However, her long-term goals involve service. 
"In a public accounting job the hours can run up to 70 a week during the busy season," she said. "I really enjoy working at Interface and in the long run I would like to own or run some­thing like that myself." 
In addition to her work at the Siloam Mennonite Fellowship, Yoder was a part of Toast Master's International this semester. 
"Because I live off campus, I didn't have much of an oppor­tuntty to be involved in extra­curriculars," she said. "But I 
still took away that sense  of  
community."  
Yoder hopes to continue  to  

succeed, with a little divine intervention. She will remain in Goshen with her husband and their daughter. near her par­ents and Carlin's. 
her parents and grandparents, whom she describes as hard­working and inspirational. 
"I come from a very supportive family environment, and so many of my family members have dropped everything to be out here with me this weekend," she said. 
After graduation, \Vild will return to her home state of Pennyslvania to work in Pittsburgh at the McKinsey & Co., managerial consulting group, where she will be part of a team performing research. analyzing data and generating reports for two years. She plans to use that time to gain perspec­tive on what she will do next. 
Wild feels certain she \Viii pur­sue an advanced academic degree at some point; attending law school, pursuing a masters in business administration or working for a Ph.D. in history are among the options she is considering. Wild, who hopes to continue her creative writing and will try to publish her novel. also emphasized that family lift~ is t~xtremcly important to her and hopes to be married with children in 10 years. 

Farewell 
continued from page 1 
"If it wasn't for my parents, I would not have been able make all these friendships, advance academically and basically experience every­thing over the past four years. I am so thankful for my time here at Notre Dame," Oakar said. 
One University seminar, two philosophies and two theologies; hundreds of hours studying, minutes in front of the computer and facts learned; thousands of facts forgotten, bread­sticks ordered and walks to DeBartolo and Madeleva. 
Countless tests passPd and tests failed. 
Through these common academic trials and tribulations, the seniors say they have formed bonds and lasting friendships they will treasure forever. 
"I think that other than forming a really spe­cial bond with girls and making some great friendships, [Saint Mary's) has helped me become a stronger woman, leader and indepen­dent," Saint Mary's senior Jaclyn Fischer said. 
Notre Dame senior Dennis Haraszko agreed, saying being in college is definitely a unique time in one's life. 
.. I believe this is the only time in my life where I will be surrounded by this many people of my own peer group, who are from the same background that I am, who can share a lot of the same experiences and who understand where I am coming from. I think that is a cool thing," Haraszko said. 
"I got a great education and through these years. I got to meet a lot of people and make a lot of life-long friends," said Saint Mary's senior Elise Hall. 
Two bars raided, eight Rallies in the Alley and 25 football-tailgating Saturdays; hundreds of formals and SYRs, quiet movie nights and freshman dorm parties; thousands of crushes, favorite party songs and dollars wasted. 
Countless nights of counseling and being counseled. 
Through these social events, seniors learned how to balance academics and realized that life is more than grades and their future salary. Seniors say that many lessons reach beyond the classroom. 
"I used to think it was a bunch of garbage when people told me 'college will be the time of your life,"' said Notre Dame senior Micah Murphy. "Although I was skeptical tlwn, I believe it now and will realize it more fully when I'm gone and miss seeing the people and campus." 
"I can still remember the first clay, moving into the dorms. That day and the days following have produced some of my best friendships I've had for the past four years," said Notre Dame senior Meghan Farrell. "Because of everything we've done together -all the good times -I know these friendships will last forevf~r.'' 
One new Ho! fs Sports and Hee re ation al Center, four new dorms and six new Saint Mary's tennis courts; hundreds of construction sites, changes to the Main Building and comput­ers in labs; thousands of new football stadium seats, HesNet connections and flowers planted. 
Countless renovations made and future changes planned. 
As the Class of 2000 changed and grew, so did the campuses around them. In their four years, the seniors say they experiencPd and witnessed tremendous growth. 
"Over the past three years, I have met tons of people that have challenged me academically, spiritually and socially," said Notre Dame senior Michael Palumbo. "I know I have person­ally grown, but also the University has also changed around me. The students have taken the education Notre Dame provides, but have also contributed their own gifts and made Notre Dame more well-rounded for its future stu­dents." 
"I feel like I've changed so much over the last four years. 1t was one of the best decisions I've ever made in my life," Hall said. 'Tm going to take Saint Mary's College with me -I will always have Saint Mary's with me." 
One lifetime ahead, possibly seven jobs and 15 col11~ge reunions. Hundreds of future work days, nights at home and alumni football week­ends. Thousands of diapers to change, dollars to lose to taxes and tears to shed becausn the bills keep coming. 
Countless moments of gratitudP for the higher education you received from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. And endless wishes that they could -if only for a brief moment -return to college. 

----------___ 

Con9ra.tvtlations P'a.olcl,1, Sand¥ an.d Marisa! 
i..._-------------------------------­


• 

FOUR YEARS IN REVIEW 
Friday, May 1 9, 2000 page 5 



.WUN . Hh 




~;a;; ,nd;p~,n~~m<'-.-~ . . 'iii~=~ 
"7:~~. c,, 
:~f~.:·~ ;,.~ »;:_~_ 
'!<;1,i,11t•$ d(;kud pl:,lfonlls. dil<('.11~:< is~uc.s .ii k>rnm 

~<-~,:;;:.::~~; =~SL~,..~ ;~~~~;~· :,c:.-.,-...·.-,,,
of the 1996-2000 academic years 
February 8, 1999 
Trustees reject Big Ten membership 
After a heated debate focusing on Notre Dame's identity and athletic programs, the Board of Trustees rejected an offer to join the Big Ten athletic conference and its academic affiliate, the Committee for Institutional Cooperation. Malloy cited the Trustees' fear that the University would lose its unique institutional identity as the ultimate rationale behind the decision. Students had opposed membership in the conference because they \Vere concerned that undergraduate education would suf­fer under the influence of the CIC, which focuses on graduate education and research. 
SMC appoints2 Eldred president 
~OBSERVER 

'A new era' 
SMC tru.,qc!t'S pr~~erit the (n!Jege :~ fir-.;t !en1<i!1.. lt.ty p,v."iicJ,~n.t (o the fomtnimil)' 


5 
NCAA sanctions ND for violations 
I J§t·· ?II· ~~i 
OB1SERVER. 
Irish respond to NCAA sandions 


8 Garrick resigns to protest gay policy 
20BSERVER 
\f-1,~\lt" 1,;Uf,pc'.>f'l.it a-M tmM1mg. ('OJl.sinM:1JtNI 

·w-.c;:.--:-:;.;;.: 
..., ,..... ..... -..,,. .... "
~
..................._. __ 
----~-.... 
.... ~ ,•·,.-........... ., 
·"·'.:·: ',\;;.:.·.. :;:.::~ ::"· . 
.., .. -· •·~.,---_,.,.,.., . 
. 
-~•7...·~--··• . . -.,, ••••.... •·. -­
.:.+,':;~ .,._ ._,;.,; ................._..,.,...,~...... -·::~,_ ___,,.~--....&-~'··...::~ 

After an exhaustive one year s1)arch, the Hoard of Trustees at Saint Mary's College appoi n tnd Marilou Eld red as the new College president. 
The first fomale laypnrson to hold the job. Eldred came from a job as acade­mic dean of' the Collngc of St. Catherine in St. Paul, Minn. 
April 14, 1997 
The NCAA handnd Notrn Damn its first fWPr m,~jor violation in connection with Kimb,~rley Dunbar's gifts to a number of Irish football players. Dunbar's nrnmbership in the QuartPrback Club made her ollicial University representa­tive, said thn NCAA. 
As punishrrn~nt, the University lost two scholarships and rnceived a two y1Htr probation. 
Jan. 19,2000 
Father David 
Garrick, assistant 
profossor of commu­
nications and tlw­
atre, resigned in 
protest of the 
University's approach 
to gay and lnsbian 
students and faculty. 
Garrick said that, 
after coming out as a 
ct'libate homosPxual 
in an April 199() let­
ter lo Tlw Observer, 
he was suspended 
from Basilica min­
istry . 

March 19, 1998 
3 Morris killed in car accident 


I :.:;;;;:;:~· ..:;~~-­
2~,;; 

OBjSERVER 
Spring break tragedy 

6 University adopts 'Spirit of Inclusion' 

M) won·1 n,-·i.e 111m-dlM"1imlnatlon t'lau~ 
-
:·· »Ill 
' [ 
r 
! ttl' l· 

•••••-•••--•!...~~~0-"'""" ••••••••••••••••• ....•••• ..•••-~••n• N...-·itht·r ruilL nor ~oow. nor :sl~H!"I ... 

9 Students, faculty rally for change 
In the first protest of its kind, almost 400 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's faculty, staff and students gathered to express their support for the addition of sexual orientation to the Univ('rsity's non-dis­crimination clause. 
Many students felt the change was nec­essary following the University's January 1995 refusal to rec­ognize GLDND/SMC. 
April 25, 1997 

Saint Mary's senior 
Kristi Morris was 
killed on her way to 
Myrtle Beach for 
spring break when 
she fell asleep at the 
wheel. Fellow stu­
dent Sarah Williams 
was injured as well. 
Saint Mary's pre­
sented Morris' par­
ents with an hon­
orary degree, and 
the senior class 
board established 
the Kristi Morris 
Memorial Fund. 
March 21, 2000 
President Edward Malloy announced that the University would not revise its non-discrimination clause to include sex­ual orientation, argu­ing that the courts define homosexual orientation differently than the Church does. 
Instead, officials adopted the "Spirit of Inclusion," which accepts all people into the community. 
Aug.29,1997 
Bridget's closes
4 

after police raid 
~OBSERVER 
BUSTED: SllDS raids Brldl.(d McGulre's 
::Sf.:.., "-''' $f~....~~~ '<(.:·•. -·~::<'
[;:;;~:;;';':;,; f/{:: 

7 
Eldred denies The Alliance 

Eldred denies Alliance club status: 
~~;:, r;:~:.i_[_,_··-~_:_i_\_:__~_:_:_:_~_:_.: 
~-:-···•-··~--':" ,.'. Ir~ 
();.~wty publi$?"1ts b1.~•Jk r,n l!Hat'li <~Wili•µment 
~~:':~~~ 
~~~~~ 
•-~Z-~-. ·,.t,,... :~::·...,. 

Master Plan 10building begins 
,i.""-.­
,,.,, ..,,.,,_ ...... 

Pw~·i11: f.lt-.tii1 f-~'t'!.A~f !Jt.JtX'>M:"'i. h:JJt;si.:1 ~1!J;niiy 
.:...-..: ,,.,_;.:: ,.·•-,siw,,~ 
,,,.. 'Y' -., ~ ' 
V "J,'fc.s.:;.*,... -} ~­
~,?.;)!:,;\, »:,; 
~ ~}'f;t{:~
,-~­

. .. ---··--. --..... " 
More than 165 patrons received cita­tions for underage drinking at Bridget McGuire's Filling Station when local and state excise police raided the bar. 
Police cited Bridget's for viola­tions of state liquor laws and manage­ment voluntarily closed the establish­ment. 
President Marilou Eldred denied official club status to The Alliance of Lesbian. Bisexual, Straight and Questioning Women of Saint Mary's College after six months of delibera­tion. 
Eldred claimed that other campus organi­zations were already meeting the proposed goals of The Alliance. 
Feb.27,1998 
Saint Mary's offi­
cials broke ground 
on the new 
Dalloway's 
Coffeehouse and 
Welcome Center, 
marking the begin­
ning of a 10-year 
plan to develop and 
renovate the Saint 
Mary's campus. 
Construction on 
the two projects 
should be completed 
by the fall of 2000. 
March 30, 2000 

-----------·--------·--------­
-----------------~­
page 6 Friday, May 19, 2000 
The Observer . THE YEAR IN REVIEW 
Bishops approve Ex Corde. NCM punishes ND. Elections cause controversy. Wadsworth resigns. 
1999 . 
ear 
JOB TURNER/The Observer 

Students anxious to join the National Marrow Donor Program Registry crowd into the Lafortune ballroom on March 30. Zahm Hall organized· the drive at the 
request of Conor Murphy, a sophomore diagnosed with leukemia this spring. Many of the more than 600 donors waited in line in excess of two hours. 
"Moving on" has included a Kachmarik became athletic dean of faculty at Saint Mary's "Kristi intended on being
By ERIN PIROUTEK 

restructuring of the athletic director at the beginning of said of the decision. here and touching hundrPds of' Associate News Edicor 
department. Athletic Director the spring semester. The document's implications lives, and peopl(i i,vho never Michael vVadsworth -whose remain indefinite. so there is knew her will miss her and not This was supposed to be the 11vc-year contract had expired still uncertainty regarding even know," said Margie
Catholic identity
year for Notre Dame l'ootball. -resigned in February and exactly what Hx Corde will Wasoski, Morris' mother.
Controversial decisions were
The l 999 Wam, like in l 988, was replaced with Kevin mean for the two schools. The news came not t\Vo
not limited to athletics. The
1977 and 1966 seemed des­\.Vhite. formm· athletic director Many officials. hovvnve r, months after the u1rnxpPctnd
nation's bishops votnd in 
tined for a national champi­at Arizona State. rather agree at least with the spirit of' death of men's soccer coach
November to implement Ex 
onship. William Beauchamp, who was the document -to further the Mike Berticelli. Berticelli, 48,
Corde Ecclesiae, a papal docu­
lnstP.ad the m uch-anticipat­the executive vice president, distinctive mission of Catholic s ufferPd a hcart attack .Jan.
ment on Catholic higher edu­
ed season ended with a 5-7 was removed from all athletic higher education -even if' the 25. llead coach at Notre DamP
cation. Th<' document will 
rncord and the NCAA handing duties. specific details of the docu­since 1990, Berticelli was
havi~ a direct impact on the 
Notre Dame its first major vio-The athletic director now ment are questionable. highly respected by colleaguns
way the 235 AmPrican 
1ation. Because of Kimberly reports directly to the presi­and players for his work ethic
Catholic colleges and universi­
Dunbar's improper gifts to dent's office instead of to the and dedication to his playnrs.
ties are governnd. raising Tragedy
Irish football play1~ rs, Notre executive vice president. This "lln taught mn everything I
questions about Catholic Students returned from 
Dame lost two scholarships month the Board of Trustees know about soccer," said Chris
schools' institutional and aca­spring break to learn that 
and r1~ceivcd a ti,vo-y11ar pro­decided to remove Beauchamp Petrucnlli, who was an assis­
dnmic f'rePdom. Saint Mary's senior Kristi 
bation. and named Father Timothy tant coach undPr Bnrticelli.
Malloy rPpoatedly criticized Morris was killed in a car acci­
"A jury of our peers said that Scully the new PxecutiVf~ vice 
the document as being too dent while traveling during the it vvas major and they gavP us president. 
legalistic and worked to keep break. Morris, driving through The family reaches out 
a pPnalty," said Fatlrnr Although completely unr1dat­
it from passing. Saint Mary's the night to reach Myrtle Zahm sophomore Conor Edward Malloy. University ed to Notn• Dame's rnstructur­
shared Malloy's opposition to B(~ach, S.C., apparently fell Murphy was diagnosed with president, after the dncision. ing, Saint Mary's also has a 
tlw decision. asleep at the wheel. Another I•~ u ke m ia t his s p r in g an d 
"vVe will accept this and moVf~ new face at the lrnlm of tho 
"I'm disappointed," Karen student, Sarah \.,Vi!liams. was required a bone marrow on. athletic dopartment. I.ynn 
Histau, vice president and injured in the crash. transplant. Murphy, fortunal!' 
Nov. 17 -The nation's bishops vote to implement Ex Corde Ecclesiae, a papal document with a direct impact on the governance of Catholic colleges and universities. 
Feb. 6 -The Saint Mary's Election Committee 
..

overturns the results of the second run-off election, won by Emily Koelsh, naming Chrissie Renner student body president. 
Feb. 7 -Michael Wadsworth resigns / as athletic director. 
Feb. 25 -Mike Berticelli, men's soccer
Dec. 17 -The NCAA gives Notre Dame 
head coach, dies from a heart attack. 
its first major violation. 
Dec. 5 -The Irish women's soccer team 
Feb. 17 -The Judicial Council names Brian O'Donoghue 
falls to North Carolina 2-0 in the 
Notre Dame student body president when Hunt Hanover 
national championship game. 
is disqualified for e-mail campaign violations. 
-----------~-­


Friday, May 19, 2000 The Observer . THE YEAR IN REVIEW page 7 
Belles mourn Morris. SMC joins WRC Students support Murphy. Master Plan breaks ground . 
I I 


to find a matrh in tlw National 
Marro\V Donor HPgistry. 
n' q u P s t e d a b o n P m a r r o w 
drivl' in hopPs ol' expanding 
tlw rngi'itry. StudPnts flooded 
LaForturw in rPsponsP to his 
rail. and mor1• than hOO 1wo­
pl11 from both campusPs joi1wd 
tlw r..gistry. many \Vaiting in 
lines for mor11 than tvvo hours. 
Tlw lost is also expPnsivP. at $96 a person. IJuP to the large turnout. costs for thP drivP sk,vrorketi>cl. Dorms and groups across campus launchPd l'undraising drivPs ranging from concerts, to T­shirt sales, to going door-to­door asking for donations to CO\'(~r the expnns11. 
"I think it's going lo Im one of' thost' things I look back on an.,~r my four yPars at Notre Danw and renwmb11r as otH' of th!' great examples of the NotrP Damp community sup­porting onn of thPir own." said \1urphy's roommatP Steve NaplPton. 
Fighting sweatshops: 
ND and SMC diverge 
At schools across tlw nation. s ,,. Pals hops ga in " d th " Iim<' ­light as many students prokst­ed in ravor or their institutions joining tlw \Yorker's Hights Consortium (\,VHC), an organi­zation focused on investigating labor conditions in factories that manufacture apparfll for colleges and univorsitins. 
The Progri!ssive StudPnt All iann' asknd UniV(\ rsi ty ofn­l'i als to join tlw WHC bngin­ning in NovPmlwr. In l'vtarch, Notn· Danw dncidnd to. retain its membership in tlin Fair Labor J\ssoriation (FLA) vvhil<' waiting for more information about tht> rncently-f'ormed 
WHC. 
Tlw main dif'l'Prern:n between the FLA and th1' WHC is how tlw organization handlPs man­uf'acturnrs that utilize swPat­shop labor. Tlw FLA promotes a collaborati\·p l'fl'ort hntwt'en tlw organization and tlw cor­porati1111 to cotT<•rt violations, whilt• tlw WHC supports full public disdosun• of' any corpo­ra lion's manufa('turing condi­tions. 
Saint Mary's chosP to join tlw WHC. 
"It snnmPd lo us. as we IParnPd mon\ about the \,\'HC. that tlw WHC fits tlw siz1! of' l lw Co 1111 gt'." said !\1 a r ii o u Eldrt'cL Ctil!Pgt• pr<•sidPnt. 

" Be ca us P t h P \'\' H C h as a 
grassroots structun•. this is 
important for a collngP likP 
Saint Mary's." 
Notn• Danw also adopted its .o,vn stringnnt sv•,.t\atshop poli­
t·y in January. It prohibits ttw 
manul'a<'IUrP of Notre Dame 
rnerchandist) in rotmlril's that 
do not rerognizP workPrs' 
rights to unionize and n•quests 
full public disdosun, of manu­
facturing sites from its 
lir.Pnspes. 
Acceptance denied 
OUTroachND, an unofficial 
gay and lesbian student group 
that applied for official recog­
nition was denir.d in April. It 
was th•~ fourth timP that a gay 
and lesbian student group had 
bf~en denied official recogni­
tion. 

"It is through programs and services offered through com­mittPd professionals and min­isters that we wish to work with gay and lesbian students al Notre Dame," said Joe Cassidy, director of Student Activities, in a letter tixplain­ing his decision. 
In the last few years, the UnivPrsity has cstablislrnd a Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs, and created programs through Campus Ministry and the University Counseling Cnntnr. But last year, the Board of Trustees decided not to include sexual orientation in the Uni\·,! rsi ty' s non-dis­crimination clause. 
"By not recognizing us they color us as somehow 'other' still, and by coloring us as ·other' they say we're not nor­mal," said OUTrearh co-prnsi­dcnt Dave Wyncott. 
Election nightmare 
It should be a simple process: the democratic elec­tion of student leaders by a popular \'otn. But for both Saint Mary's and Notre Danrn, th«> stud<' n t body <'I(' ct ions \\'t'rt' fraught with drama. dif­ficulties and protests. 
AftPr Saint Mary's initial elt~ction. two tick<>ts, Emily Km•lsch/Haclrnle Rodart<' and Chrissie Henner/Michellf' Nagl<~. advanced to a run-off Plection. Tim run-off. howevPr. n•stllted in a tie, \Vith both tickl'ts Parning 49 percent of th<• vote. Stud<>nts votPd again, 
Feb. 27 -Four Notre Dame students are arrested for disorderly conduct and resisting arrest at a local Denny's restaurant. 
. 2000 
two days later, declaring Koelsch/Hodarte winners with 51 perr.ent of the votn. 
But Henner/Nagle filed a protest, allc~ging improper vot­ing procedures to handle the unprecedented tie. The elec­tions com rn it tee decided to combine votes from the primary and the first run-off. which nulli­fied the revote, instead declar­ing Renner/Nagle the winner. Another appeal from Koelsch/Rodarte was denied. 
The Notre Dame elections proved almost as confusing. 
During the early stages of the campaign, the Brian O'Donoghue,/Brooke Norton ticket received a one-day sus­pension for a radio appearance prior to official campaigning. After the primary, O'Donoghue/ Norton and Hunt Hanover/John Micek advanced to a run-off. The Judicial Council named O'Donoghue/Norton the wln­ners due to the disqualification of Hanover/Micek due to e-mail campaign violations. Hanover/Micek decided not to appeal, but John Osborn/Mark Donahey, the ticket that fin­ished third in the primary elec­tion, appealed, saying that Hanover/Micek's disqualifica­tion should have placed them in a run-off with O'Donoghue/ Norton. The appeal was denied, with O'Donoghue/Norton remaining the winners. 
Planning for the future 
Both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are involved in extensive fundraising to ensure the future success of the schools. 
This year marks the beginning of a IO-year Master Plan at Saint Mary's. This is the final year for the historic Dalloway's Coffeehouse, a gift from the 
Class of 1922. Groundbreaking on a new Dalloway's Coffeehouse and Welcome Center began March 30 with construction expected to be complete in the fall. 
Fundraising is in progress for the $100 million Master Plan, which will also include improve­ments to athletic facilities, resi• dence halls and social space. 
Notre Dame's Generations fundraising campaign has been a huge success. It surpassed its initial goal of $767 million last summer, 18 months ahead of schedule. 
On March 21, Torn and Kathy Mendoza donated $35 million to the College of Business, which is the largest single monetary gift in University history. 
The Mendozas' gift brings the Generations campaign's total to more than $900 m ii lion. Next year, the campaign will continue. 


Brian O'Donoghue and Brooke Norton study a list of campaign violations on Feb. 17 while wait­ing for the Judicial Council to announce the results of the student body presidential elections. Protests followed both the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campus presidential elections. 
March 29 -More than 600 people join the National Bone rv1arrow Registry in support of Zahm sophomore Coner Murphy, who has leukemia. 
.1·.,
.·_·.·.•·····
4 . ,_:, 


. ;,-,_ --~,."' 

March 12 -Saint Mary's senior Kristi Morris 
March 30 -The Master Plan begins with is killed in a car accident. 
ground breaking on a new Dalloway's Coffeehouse and Welcome Center.
\ 

/ March 30 -New head coach Matt Doherty's March 29 -Saint Mary's announces Irish men's basketball team's season ends that it will join the WRC. with a loss to Wake Forest in the NIT championship. 
May 5 -Notre Dame announces that Father William Beauchamp, executive vice president,
March 21 -University president Edward Malloy will be replaced by Father Timothy Scully, effective July 1. 
announces that Notre Dame will not join the Worker's Rights Consortium. 
Friday, May 19, 2000 

page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

SECURITY 

Unidentified man attacks student in D6 parking lot 
By CHRISTINE KRALY 
News Wriccr 

Dillon Hall resident Peter Garrison was 
assaulted and robbed in the 1)6 north park­
ing lot on May 8, according to Notre Dame 
Security/Police (NDSP) reports. 

Garrison could not be reached for com­
ment. 

The incident occurrPd at approximately 
10:20 p.m. when Garrison was walking through the parking lot and was struck on the head, according to Chuck Hurley. direc­tor of NDSP. Garrison was knoc:ked uncon­scious and told Hurley he could not recall if he was struck with an object. 
Garrison awoke to find that the man had 
stolen his shoes and $10 and a driver's 
license from his pocket. 

Garrison sustained head injuries and 
scrapes and bruises to his arms, Hurley 
said. 

The suspect is a black male, approximate­
ly six feet, 30-40 years old with a full beard 
and was wearing a white T-shirt and blue 
jeans. 

Collaboration between NDSP and the South Bend Police Department led to a sus­pect line-up which Garrison witnessed May 
12. Garrison could not identify the attacker. 
Hurley said this was an isolated mugging incident but that students should report any suspicious-looking people to security as soon as possible. 
SMC construction moves forward 
. Welcome Center, new Dalloway's Coffeehouse may be complete in fall 
By MOLLY McVOY Saint Mary's Editor 
When the Saint Mary's seniors return to campus as alumnae, they may not recognize the campus they once called home. 
Tim first steps in the ten-year Master Plan have begun and will contintw after graduation. By thl" beginning of the fall semester, sev­eral major changes are expected to be in place. 
Groundbreaking for the new \Velcome Center and Dalloway's Coffeehouse occurred on March 30 and the buildings are expected to be up and running by the fall. Regina renovations are underway and the build­ing will be 
completely year has been
'Tm sad that things aren't going 
redone by the a great learn­
to be as I remember them. but I 
fall when stu­ing experi­dents move do think the changes are good. " ence. and I into their new think those rooms. [apartme ntsl
Mary Culley 

'Tm actual­will be a big
senior 

ly excited that the changes are coming," senior Mary Culley said. 'Tm sad that things aren't going to be as I remember them, but I do think the changes are good." 
These changes are part of a 10 year, $100 million plan that 
includes changes to resirlencc halls, athletic facilities and social spaces, 
New apartment-styIe housing will be built on the northeast cor­
go major changes. 
Although tlrn face of campus may be changing as a result of the plan. most seniors seem pleased with the overall goal of the changes. 
ner of campus and will be open for stu­dents, at the earliest, by the 2002-03 academic year. This addition seems to be the most pop­uIar among the student body, and the seniors in particular. 
"I think the apartment­
"I think it's great that

"/ think it's great that they're 
they're finallyfinally doing things because doing things 
I think that 5iaint lWarys is because I think that
behind other uniuersities, and 
Saint Mary's

I think that they need to catch 
is behind 

up . ... I think the changes are 
other univer­a good idea. I think president sities. and J Eldred is doing a goodjob think they need to catch
with the A1aster Plan. 
up, Ador said. 

Jackie Ader "In some senior ways, howev­
style housing is going to be a good 
thing," senior Jackie Ader said. "Living off campus this 
improve­
ment." 

Aside from the new buildings being construct­ed on campus, major renovations are a part of the plan. Nobl<~ Family Dining Hall will be renovat­ed to become a student center and Angela Athletic Facility will under-
er, I think it 

might make Saint Mary's seem a little bigger. Saint Mary's is known for being a small school, so that upsets me a little, but overall, I think the changes are a good idea. I th ink president Eldred is doing a good job with the Master Plan," she con­tinued. 
Many seniors were part of the committees involved in planning the construction and raising money for the Master Plan. Although the changes may 1_1ot directly affect tlrnm, they look forward to seeing effects of tho work they did. 
"A lot of us have helped in tlrn planning stages," formnr studnnt body president Nancy Midden said. "It's so exciting to bn able to see these changes in a concrete form." 


Friday, May 19 -Sunday, May 
21 All Summer Fashions 20% Off! Bombay Boutique 
Edison Plaza • 1635 Edison Road • Corner of Edison and 23 • Next door to LULA'S CAFE 271-8865 Monday-Saturday 10 am -8 pm • Sunday 12 pm -6 pm 


Blouses reg. $15-24, now $12-19 Skirts reg. $16-35, now $13-28 Dresses reg. $30-84, now $24-67 
We also have Sarongs, Scarves, Shirts for Men, Bed Spreads, Silver Jewelry, Unique Gift Items from Around the World: Incense, Incense Burners, ()ils, Bracelets, Ankle Bracelets, Toe Rings, Ethnic Jewelry, Vases, Bronze Buddhas and other Devotional Statues, Hand-Carved Wooden and Stone Boxes and Much More!! 
All clothing from India and Indonesia 




Friday, May l 9, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Saint Mary's community mourns death of Kristi Morris 
By MOLLY McVOY Saint .\1ary s Edilor 
A single ynllow ribbon will bP on tlw \Vrist of each senior as they rPceive their diploma from Saint Marv's in rPmom­brancP of Kristi ,,torris. tlwir classmatP who diPd over spring brPak of this yP,tr. 
Although Morris \Viii not he walking \Vith lwr classmates to rcl"Pivc hPr diploma, slrn \-Vas a ,v a rd Pd a n h o n o r a r y d egre <' at t lw soc ia I w o r k hooding ceremony and her seal will remain Pmpty at graduation. A single rose will sit in her place. 
"I Kristi's dPath I is definitely 
pride that come with every graduation. 
"Wfl ar,, mourning her loss at graduation. but we are also celebrating our accomplish­ments," said senior class pres­ident Anno Pangilinan. 
In addition to the honorary dcgrnP, the senior d,tss board has instituted the Kristi Morris MPmorial Fund. The board St\lll letters to all curn~nt stu­d<'nts requesting donations l'or the fund. 
A run/vvalk was also sched­uled for Thursday afternoon at 3 p.m. All of the proceeds from the two-mile run/walk will be donated to the Kristi Morris Memorial Fund. Hnsults of the event wore 
hPart­brcaking and sacl­d t• n i 11 g . " l'ornwr slu­dP n l body prPsidPnt Nancy Midden said. "On a positivP sidn, it has brought our class closer togetlwr. It has forced 
"/Kristi's dealh/ is de.finitely heartbreaking and saddening. On a positive side, it has brought our class closer together. It has forced us lo appreciate what we have in each other." 
Nancy Midden former student body president 
us to appniciate what ,vn have in (1ach other." 
Although Morris's death leaves many of the seniors saddenPd, the senior class still l'Pt1ls thP nxcilenwnt and 
unavail­able at press time. 
A memo­
rial for Morris was included as a part of the video comm,~mo­ratin g the four years the seniors spent at S a i n t Mary's. 
Midden 

feels that. along with bringing the senior class together, Morris's death has taught the Class of 2000 not to tak-e what they have for granted. 
"We have to see everything 

Kristi Morris, top left, was killed in a car accident traveling to Myrtle Beach, S.C. for spring break. After traveling through the night, Morris fell asleep at the wheel. Junior Sara Williams, 
bottom center, was also injuired in the accident. 
we have in each of our class­mates," she said. "\\le have to appreciate every moment we have, because each one is fleeting." 
Morris was killed in a car accident while traveling to 
Myrtle Beach for spring break. After driving all night to reach South Carolina, Morris fell asleep at the wheel. Junior Sarah Williams was injured in the accident, but has recovered. 
The senior class held a can­dlelight prayer service in Morris's honor when the stu­dents returned from spring break. Morris was a resident of South Bend and a graduate of Saint Joseph's High School. 
Congratulations women of Pasquerilla West. 
You 
Sarah Bates 
Kim Bernard Lori Bettcher Cherryl Brown Kara Brown Beth Burau Megan Cadice Becky Calcagno Chris Catanzarite Jen Crone Emily Dempster Andrea Dorin Maggie Durant Kelly Engvall Colleen Feeney Megan Fitzpatrick Colleen Gavin Kelly Glynn 

are forever a Purple Weasel. 
Class of 2000 

Hanna Ghirmay Lacey Harraka Meghann Hennigan Monica Hlavac Melissa Hogg Aimee Kalogera Chloe Hutchinson Gina Ketelhohn Violet Kramer Magda Krol Iris Lancaster Mandie Landry Stasia Langan . Alejandra Lopez Jenn Lopez Erin Malooly Catherine Marrero Bridget McMahon Amy Mediamolle Trish Oatley Toby O'Rourke Melissa Osburn Daniela Papi Stephanie Park Carilu Pozorski Lisa Radden Katie Reichmann Justine SanFilippo Rhiana Saunders Sallie Scherer Julie Shotzbarger Jen Solano Maggie Tinucci Kathleen Warin Kristin Wheeler 
page 10 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, May 19, 2000 
A Senior,s Last Look 


As Notrn Dame and Saint 
Mary's seniors leave the 
rampusrs that have been their honws l'or tlrn past four years. one stinior looks back through tlrn eyn of thn camera. 
Photos by 
KEVIN DALUM 


offers its congratulations to the following graduating seniors: 
JEFF BEAM RYAN BLEGGI JOSH BOURGEOIS A. J. BOYD KARI CONNOLLY JOHN DAILY KEVIN DALUM DUSTIN FERRELL COLLEEN GAUGHEN MIKE GEHRKE 
JULIA GILLESPIE BILL HART 
JEFF HSU BRETT HUELATT JOHN HUSTON KRIS KLEIN MICHELLE KRUPA ERIK KUSHTO JOEY LENISKI BRYAN LUTZ BRAD McDONALD ANDREW McDONNELL MIKE McMORROW KEN NISHAMURA 
BRIDGET O'CONNOR LAURA PETELLE MIKE REVERS CLAIRE RODDEWIG DAVE ROGERO M. SHANNON RYAN 
BRIAN SEAMAN JOE STARK 
C. ll ''TEO" TEODORO .· 
JOB TURNER ! BILL UNIOWSKI : MIKE VANEGAS 
TJ1ar1k yoit for yoitr hard zvork, dedication and leadership. You have helped to create a tradition of professional journalis1r1 whiclz we are proitd to continite. Good l11ck i11 all yozt do. -Tlze 2000-2001 Staff 

.'t•J:J;,,_,.:-..,~_._• __ ;;f_r,~-,;{'' ",;·',:'.'f./2•~,• ~.-.,:.,.,..;, ,:._,_,,__ •,J:-• 


• r "':',. .....J>~'rJ"1,·~.1...~ -<~{ ;j'
(,. ~ 
-.---..____...h . -!-­

----" 
Friday, May 19, 2000 

The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 11 


Annan, Viramontes to deliver Commencement speeches 
. U.N. chief may criticize 
U.S. foreign policy 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Assista111 News F.dicor 
lkspitP dPaling with numerous cris(~S, Unitnd Nations secrctar_y-g1•1wral Koli Annan will takn tinw to dcliv1ir Notw Dame's Comm <'II C(\IHI' n t address Sunday. 
Annan has l'(!('('lltly rriliciz<'CI th!' L!nitPd Statns for not doing <'nough to help Africa with its s1w­eral wars. including 0111• in Si('tTa LeonP. The AIDS 

1\pidemic is also Annan S!'VPJ'I' throughout tlw ronti1wnt. 
In his spt•nch. Annan might choose to addn•ss probll'ms in Africa. said govern­ment prol'Pssor Danid I.indIcy. Armtlwr possibility is that Annan will mention tlw ways in which the U.N. can irnprov11 its pnrf'ormancc, a topic rnlatnd to a possi­ble critiqw~ of Lnit<'d StatPs foreign poli­cy. LindlPy said. 

"The U.S. is in big danger of crawling into its shell," Lindley said, adding that he hopes Annan's speech "tics us closer to thn world" and offors suggestions as to how the U.S. can avoid isolationism. 
It is also possible that Annan will speak about issues relating to the p1mcc process in Ireland and Kosovo, said Ojong Odidi, a peace studies graduate student from Nigeria. Another possibll\ topic is thn question of when and how tlw U.N. gets involved in conflicts. according to Odidi. 
Before his el,\ction as sP1Tetary-g1mcr­al in l 997. Annan became involved ,vith peacekeeping work within the U.N. Well-respected for his efforts to prevent war, Annan is an appropriate figure to address graduating Notre Damn stu­dents. according to Lindley. 
"We'rn supposed to care lat Notre Darnel," he said. "I think [Annan's] work fits in ideally." 
Annan relates well to Notre Dame brn:ausP both tlw U.N. and the Catholic Church promote pnacc, Odidi said. 
"!Annan! will be able to blend conflict with religion and h<rw it relates to pm1cc," said Odidi. 
Originally from Kumasi, Ghana, /\nnan was educated in his native coun­try as wdl as the United States and Switzerland. Annan's work with the U.N. began in l 962 with the World Health Organization. During the Persian Gulf War in 1990, Annan led negotiations with Iraq regarding oil sales to pay for humanitarian aid. 
Annan also served as under secretary­general from 1994 to 1995, then again in l 996. During his tenure in that posi­tion, U.N. peacekeeping operations increased significantly. Annan was involved with peacekeeping efforts in Hosnia after the Dayton Peace Agremnent ended the war there in 1995. 
As secretary-general, Annan has \Vorkcd to reform the U.N. and bring the organization closer to people in an attempt to renew the world's confidence in the U.N. lie has also tried to increase the U.N.'s traditional role in promoting peace and development. lluman rights have also been an important concern for Annan. 
Odidi, who is attending graduation, is looking forward to hearing Annan speak. 
"I will foe! really happy and proud to hear him speak about some of these [peace] issues," he said. 
Notre Dame Commencement will be hfdd Sunday at 2 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 

We didn't become Fortune• magazine's America's Most Admired Company* by accepting the status quo. 
We got there by hiring and training graduates with the 
GE Welcomes 16 Graduating 
confidence and courage to think in innovative and 
Students as Full-Time Employees, 
revolutionary ways. No other corporation can match the diversity 
of opportunities at GE. Because we have small company 
to The GE Family! 
attitudes with large company strengths, we set no limits, no boundaries. You can move from industry to industry, discipline to discipline, and never leave GE. 
Good luck and best wishes 
We're a leader in every business we compete in, 
for an exciting career at GE!'
and we're looking for leaders Hke Alp hie who will take us even further. Start your career by visiting our website now. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
I •

J \ " ,,.. 
Learn about us ~t . \\ 
C/ 

www~gecar. .rs.com" 
' . ' . ' " . 

---------------·------------------­
GE Airer a~ Engines• GE Appliances• GE Capital Services• GE Corporate Research and Development• GE Industrial Systems GE Information Services• GE Lighting• GE Medical Systems• GE Plastics• GE Power Systems• GE Supply-GE Transportation Systems• NBC 
We bring good thin!}s to life. 
*2/21/00 

. Latina author's previous speech impressed students 
By CHRISTINE KRALY News Wrirer 
Acclaimed author Helena Maria Viramontns will address Saint Mary's class of' 2000 at Saturday's Commencement. 
The creative writ­ing professor will address the graduat­ing class in part because of student 
responSf\ to  a  previ­ 
ous speech.  
According  to  

Elizabeth Station, 


assistant to Saint Viramontes 
Mary's president 
Marilou Eldred, last fall several Saint 
Mary's students and faculty heard 
Viramontes speak at a conference and were so impressed that they wrote a let­ter to Eldred requesting Viramontes for the Commencement address. 
Like the women she will address, Viramontes is joining the thousands of Saint Mary's alumnae. The College is giving the popular writer an honorary degree for her praised literary work. 
Viramontes. who is a professor at Cornell University, was born in East Los Angeles and earned her bachelor's degree from Immaculate Heart College. 
She has written short stories and nov­els about Mexican-American migrant workers in the United States. Her work primarily focuses on the female perspec­tive of Chicano family life. 
"She writes very sensitively about women. I think she'll be a wonderful speaker," said Station, who believes Viramontes' Catholic education makes her the perfect candidate to address the graduating Belles. 
Though, Station does not know what Viramontes speech will entail, she is confident that the speaker will make a lasting impression. 
"I think she'll speak not only to our Latina students, but all our students on the valtw of their Saint Mary's educa­tion," said Station. 
Viramontes is scheduled to arrive in South Bend today to participate in a workshop with Saint Mary's faculty and staff. The workshop will include discus­sion on "Chicana 2000," Saint Mary's academic theme for the upcoming year. 
"\Ve're really lucky to be able to spend the morning fwith her!," Station said. 
Saint Mary's commencement will be Saturday at 3 p.m. in Le Mans court­yard. 

Rustic elegance This is not an oxymoron. Wildflower has it all! Log & stone homes. Cathedral ceilings, stone fireplaces, decks overlooking the St. Joe River and Orchard Hills Golf Course. Starting under . $200,000. 1 1/2 hours from the loop. A great location just 20 minutes from N.D. campus. 
616.695.6043 
Northern Lights, Inc. Broker. 
Contact: 
WILDFLOWER DEVELOPMENT 3035 NILES-BUCHANAN ROAD BUCHANAN, Ml 49107 
WILDFLOWER 
~•.-­

Friday, May 19, 2000

page 12 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
The Alliance for Catholic Education is proud to welcome its seventh class of Catholic school teachers. We give thanks for their gift of service 

Please join us in congratulating the fallowing graduates of Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame. 
• FO~ to America's Catholic schools. 
elcome  
Dan Adams  Birmingham, Alabarna  ACE 71 
Shaunti Althoff  Biloxi, Mississippi  
Molly Bates  Mobile, Alabarna  
Dan Bumpus  Phoenix, Arizona  
Beth Burau  Dallas, Texas  
Meagan Carlevato  Napoleonville, Louisiana  Kelly Holohan  Oklahoma City, Oklahoma  
Tin1 Casale  Pensacola, Florida  Kelly Jansky  Fort Worth, Texas  
John Castilleja  Los Angeles, California  Greg Joseph  Los Angeles, California  
Brian Chumey  Mobile, Alabama  Joe Joy  Birmingham, Alabama  
John Daily  Mission, Texas  Wade Laffey  Oklahoma City,_ Oklahoma  
KevinDalum  ShreveJ)ort, Louisiana  Erin Lillis  Biloxi, Mississippi  
Maggie Dellamano  Birmingham, Alabama  Caroline Loftus  Lake Charles, Louisiana  
Chris DellaPorta  Atlanta, Georgia  Erin Luby  Phoenix, Arizona  
Jillian DePaul  Austin, Texas  Veronica Maldonado  Mission, Texas  
David deTagyos  Montgomery, Alabama  Shaun lv1cKieman  Jackson, Mississippi  
Michael Downs  Austin, Texas  Margaret Oakar  Jacksonville, Florida  
Michael Earley  Lake Charles, Louisiana  Anne Pangilinan  Montgomery, Alabama  
Heidi Eppich  Tulsa, Oklahoma  Araceli Ramirez  Austin, Texas  
Meghan Farrell  Phoenix, Arizona  Mike Russo  Oklahoma City, Oklahoma  
Michael Fierro  Mission, Texas  Amy Saks  Fart Worth, Texas  
Carnille Fitz/)atrick  Charlotte, North Carolina  John Samf)le  Mobile, Alabama  
Martha (] ibney  Kansas City, Kansas  Beau Schweitzer  Los Angeles, California  
Kevin Grugan  Baton Rouge, Louisiana  Karena Shiel  Napoleonville, Louisiana  
Lynette C1ryj)j)  Lake Charles, Louisiana  Nicole Shirilla  Baton Rouge, Louisiana  
Cam Gunville  Baton Rouge, Louisiana  John Steffan  Fort Worth, Texas  
Leticia Herrera  f)allas, Texas  Kathryn Stein/age  Mission, Texas  
Kelly Tutko  Montgomery, Alabama  
Molly Wclzbacher  Pensacola, Florida  
Julie Wernick  At/ant.a, Georgia  


a: 
Friday, May 19, 2000 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 13 


Catholic environment motivates seniors to serve 

WHEREVER YOU WANT TO GO? 
growth more than you ever imagined. When: you'll be supplied with all the responsibilities you can handle. And where you are paid for your performance and promotions are determined by merit rather than seniority. Simply put. 1here's no hetter example of an environment where your hard work pays off
Beyond living in one ol the most exciting cities around, you 
can look forward to working in an atmosphne where your It could take a liferimc to discover all the advantages that 
ability to make smart business dedsions not only counts for Southern California has to offer. You'll he glad to know there's a 
something. hut it determines your career's direction and company you could descrihe 1ha1 way too. Enterprise Rrnt-A-Car. 
Use Your Head. Join Enterprise. 
For consideration, please contact: 
Enterprise Rent-A-Car Attn: Melody Signaler 3366 Cherey Avenue Long Beach, CA 90807-4909 Phone: (562) 426-4774 Fax: (562) 426-4834 E-mail: msignaterl@erac.c:om 
Or call toll-free: 1-888-W\\W-ERAC 
Sa.id, surf. and endless sunshine. Can't say we blame you for wanting that on a daily basis. So if your heart is leading you westward I() Los Angeles. Enterprise Rent-A-Car is ready to help you get 1here. with the kind of incrrdihle career opportunities you deserve. 
¦ 

~~IRIE ]])Jt¥OO-~ A11rAIRT JOOIE~~ 
Pre-Leasing Fall 2000 
-.Large 2 bedrooms that easily fit 4 

roommates a Student leases available a Under $500 per month 
a 4 Blocks from Campus 
ONLY A FEW LEFTI 
"The Best Value In Off Campus Living" · 
Professionaly Managed by Real Estate Management Corp . 
234-9923 
By KATE NAGENGAST 
News Wrirer 
Aftpr four yPars of' arademic struggl11s to obtain a col legP d(!gr PP , fI'\,\' S t ll d<' 11 tS ni ig h t imagirw tht'lllSPlvt's travnling Lo all ends of' the t'arth to SPrve otlwrs. Sonwthing in tlrn NotrP Danw and Saint \lary·s com­munity. howcvt•r, changes that PXp(•ctation !'or tlw approxi­matn ly 10 pPrcnnt or each graduating class \Vho consis­tPntly commit to post-graduate service work. 
Typically drawn into sPrvicn wo r k by a S u m nm r S1\ r v i c P Proj1•,·t, tlw Appalachian SPminar or C\Pn South Bnnd community sPrvice projects likt• Christmas in April. 77 pN­('Pllt of' \otn• Dame undnrgrad­uatPS an• artivP in soda! S('r­vicn. 
"I think thnrP am a numbc~r of motivations Ifor doing post­graduate sor­virP work!," 
said Andrea "/ think a lot of teach and I S m i t h ­
students want to do really lik(~ 
Shappell. dirn<·­the wtty the
Ipost-graduate service]
tor o t' tlw ACE pro­S e n i o r because they've been gram bal­
Transitions giuen so much and they ances spiri­Programs at t u a Ii t y,
want to give back." 
tlw University's community Center for living and Social Concerns Sister Linda Kors the profes­
(CSC). ''But I sion of
SURV director 

think for many teaching," there is such a s a i d great atmosplwre for s1~rvice Martha Gibney, a Spanish and social concPrns on this major who has committed her campus ... that throughout next two years to teaching a tlwir four yPars it has been a primarily llispank foui·t11 grmving inten\st !'or them." grade class in Kansas City. 
"I think a lot of students The commitment ACE makes vvant to do [post-graduate stir­to the profession of education ­vi c1\ I beca us<' th ny' v P bc en by "teaching its teachers" with givnn so much and they want night weeks of education class­
to give back," said Sister Linda es during the summer before Kors, dirnctor of the Spes 1intering the first year of tPach­Uni<:a lfrsotirce Cmltnr (SUHVl ing, and another eight weeks ol' 
Africa, Peter Camilli and Huth
ENTRY-LEVEL MANAGEMENT OPPORTUNITIES IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 
' Luckas could not resist joining him. "I am always trying to get students involved in volunteer­
PEOPLE LIKE YOU PUT US 
ing," said Newton. After much discussion
ON THE LIST. 
throughout the year it was decided that Camilli and Luckas would work closely with Newton in an addiction 
treatment center, one of four just forming in East Africa. "I hope to develop it into 
SO SHOULDN'T WE 
TAKE YOU 
at Saint Mary's. "Some stu­dents may be doing it to help focus \Vhat they want to do \Vith the rest of their lives." 
Although the seniors \viii be involved in mor1~ than 44 dif­foren t SPrvicP organizations next year, thn programs with the most Notre Dame and Saint Mary's partil'.ipants are those reprns1!ntPd on the University's campus: the J\llianc<' for Catholic Education (ACE) and the Iloly Cross Associates. ACE volunteers an• plact~d through­out the soutlwrn states to com­plf'tP l\vo years of service as teachers in under-served Catholic schools. lloly Cross Associates SPnds volunteers throughout the United States and into Chile to participate in a varit>ty of programs including teaching, casework, elderly outreach. IIIV/AIDS support and childrPn 's and women's issues. 
"l decided to do ACE because 
I knew I 
wanted to 

something that could be pretty regular," said Newton. "Even if the students don't have any life-long commitment to it, it will always be part of how they approach things in this first world." 
While many post-graduate service programs provide stu­dents with a chance to do very concentrated and selfless work for a year or two, Rocio Rodriguez, a business major at Saint Mary's chose to dedicate herself to a non-profit organi­zation. 
Hodriguez will join the Back of the Yards Neighborhood Council, a community develop­ment organization in Chicago aimed at Mexican immigrants. Hodriguez will join the staff as the small business develop­ment center director -helping people to start their own small businesses, develop financial planning, request grants from the state and even stay in busi­ness long-term. 
"I just really wanted to get into helping people within the community," she said. "A lot of people ask me why I didn't want to do the corporate route right away, but this is some­thing that I roally want to do. I've done the corporate stuff before through internships, but I have a passion for this." 
classes dur­
ing the sum­
mer between 
the first and 
second year ­
is incredible, 
said Gibney. 
llowever, 
Bache! Lustig 
felt her call­
ing a little 
further away 
than most 
students. 
"I always \vanted to do service," she said. "After being abroad in Australia, I dPdded to go abroad for service work as well." 
As a volun­teer for the II o ly Cross Associates in Chile, Lustig will work closely with the diocese in Santiago for 2 1/2 years, specifically dedicat­ed to work in an orphanage. 
"I have a feeling this experi­ence will open me up to some opportunities," Lustig, a finance major, said. "I don't expect to go back into busi­ness, but I expect to use my degree." 
In addition to these programs them are a number of volun­teer services growing in popu­larity, including Boys Hope Girls IIopP, an Americorps pro­gram and Life Treatment Centers-Wilson Foundation, whose executive director, Father Steve Newton, is also the rector of Sorin Hall. Boys Hope Girls Hope provides value-centered, familv-like homes for children who· must ovnrcome unpromising back­
grounds or compromising envi­ronments throughout the United States. Life Treatment Centers is working to establish addiction treatment centers in Africa. 
Boys Hope appealed to Kevin Chu because of its "real life applications." As a volunteer in Jacksonville, Fla., Chu will be living with six boys and two other volunteers. The volun­teers each commit for a year to take on the responsibilities of a parent to the children. 
"I chose this because I like working with children and it just seemed like Boys Hope has very good intentions ... it was a program I'd like to support," he said. 
\Vhen Newton made the deci­sion to leave his position as rector of Sorin I lall to work for the Wilson Foundation in 
Visit our Web site at: www.enterprise.com 
~ Enterprise 
•llliiiiii_________i-,re~n,!t-~a~-c~adr 
We are an equal opportunity employer. 


Friday, May 19, 2000
page 14 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Wendy Gebert Doug Jones Matthew McGarry Margaret Phelps Terri Stillwell Amanda Gentine Eily Junius Kelly McGeever Jennifer Piccoli Jennifer Stirk 
Kristen Georgia Adam Kapacinkas Mike McGill Julia Pilipovich Katherine Streck 
csc 
Kristin Gerber Sarah Kaufman Daniel McGowan Hector Pimentel Adrienne String C E N T E R F O R Austin Gerig Vincent Keating Laura McGrimley Melinda Pineda Dan Strobel Martha Gibney Michelle Keefe Julia McIntire Walter Poirier Colleen Sullivan SOCIAL Amy Keller Mary McManus Scott Potter Michael Sullivan
Rima Gimius 
Mary Gleason Peggy Keller Michael McMorrow Christopher Powers Christina Sutton Sarah Glowacki Colleen Kelly Andrea McNemey Jennifer Ptacin Mike Svarovsky 
CONCERNS 
Mark Godish Katherine Kerr Biz McShane Jim Qualters Sarah Sweetman 
Steven Gomez Casey Kinsella Dana McSherry Colleen Quinlan Molly Syron Anna Gonzalez Daniel Kirzeder Nate Medland Claudia Quinonez Brian Tarquinio Melissa Gorman Margie Kizer Brian Meihaus Rexphil Rallanka Katrina Ten EyckLaura Abeln Laura Della Maria 
Jeffrey Gorris Kara Klaas Andy Meirose Araceli Ramirez Vijay Thangamani Karia Acayan Margarita Dellamano 
Caroline Grady Kris Klein Maria Miguel Rhonda Ramos Rebecca ThompsonEmily Affeldt Emily Dempster 
Rebecca Greco Jennifer Klein David Mikolyzk Brigid Reagan Brian Tilley Bridget Agnew Kerry Desmarais 
Mike Greiwe Brian Kolle Brian J. Mikulla Juliette Rederstorff Maggy Tinucci Ehatsham Ahmad 
Marisa DeSapio Andrew Green Christina Kolski Charles Miles John Reed Kristen Tluchowski Gabriel Alejandro Lauren Destina 
Jen Green Jason Korth Melissa Miller Michael Regan Emily Todd Steven Allan Monica Diaz 
Lynette Grypp Cara Kotas Shawn Miller Katherine Reichmann Laura Tokarz Shaunti Althoff Ahsley Dickerson 
Cameron Gunville Violet Kramer Dong Min Emily Reimer Angela Tonozzi Adam Altman Sarah Dilling 
Heather Gupusan Caroline Kronk Joseph Minetti Julie Reising Meghan Tracy Ashley Ameika Amanda Dillon 
Zach Gustafson Serena Kubiak Amador Minjares Rona Reodica Maria Trevino Louis Amorosa Paula Dionisio 
Raul Gutierrez Matthew Kuhn Maureen Misener Chelsea Richardson Jennifer Turner Roslyn Amparo Peter Distelzweig 
David Ha Chris Kusek Rebecca Mitsch Lindsay Richardson Jennie Tylec Angela Anderson Nga Do James Hagan Erik Kushto Matt Monberg Denice Rivera Thomas Tyszka Teresa Anderson Rose Domingo Christine Hahn James Kwiatt Burgandie Montoya Aliceson Robinson William Uniowski Tom Anderson Erin Donohue 
Margaret Hamilton Arnoldo Lacayo Michael Morales Elizabeth Rompf Maite Uranga Kelly Anoe Maureen Donovan 
Rachel Hansen Phil Lammers Kelli Moran Shaun Rooney Joseph Ursic Laura Antkowiak Sara Doorley Katherine. Hansen Iris Lancaster James Moravek Elizabeth Rossick Steve Valdes Joe Applewhite Katherine Dom 
Dennis Haraszko Mandie Landry Elizabeth Moriarty Kathleen Rowland Kathleen Vales Sarah Asmuth Michael Downs 
Lacey Harraka Stasia Langan Anne Moriarty Anna Rusin Adam Vanfossen Liberty Balbort Julie Duba Jeffrey Harrington Ryan Larkin David Morrow Ramsey Russell William Varettoni Jennifer Baltruzak Katherine Duffy 
John Hatzenbuehler Katherine Laures Cara Motter Megan Ryan Anna Lisa Vargas Mia Banas Gage Dungy 
Charies Hayes Rachel Lauzon Nicole Moye Amy Saks Nicole Varner 
Sofia Barbato Elizabeth Barger Stacey Barnes 
Kelly Basinger 
Maria Batz 

Congratulations Class of2000!!! 
Jessica Baumgarten Kelley Beamer 
The staffofthe Centerfor Social Concerns 
Mary Bertsch Lori Bettcher 

wishes to express our thanks and best wishes 
Stasia Bijak Kelley Bitterly 

to the members ofthe Class of2000. 
Mary Boerner Kristen Bogner 

In the words of Sr. Helen Prejean~· CS/,
John Borrego Karen Boselli 

CCMayyou be blessed with passion and may you follow it all ofyour life. " 
Kimberly Boulds 

Joshua Bourgeois 
Jennifer Bowling 

A special thanks goes to those graduating seniors listed here who have 
Andrew Boyd Erin Brady 

participated in the Centerfor Social Concerns courses, seminars and 
Andrew Brennan Jenny Brissette 

programs during their sojourn at Notre Dame. Thanks also to the 
Jennifer Bryan Julian Bryant 

hundreds ofstudent who have shared their time and talents with the
Elizabeth Buckingham Cerise Bush 
community through the many student, service, and social action programs.
Christopher Butera 
Megan Cadice 
Shana Cagney 
Mary Calsin 
Augusto Camara Erin Dunnigan Gregory Head Chris Lawler Kelli Mullen Sara Salazar Cynthia Vega Michael Camilleri Maggie Durant Carrie Hedin Grant Lee Kristine Munoz Lorna Sanchez Michelle Viegas Angela Carbonetti Scott Durbin Joe Hemler Mary Leffers Kathryn Murphy Trina Sandberg Michale Visnosky Jaclyn Carfagno Andrew Herman 

Michael Earley Kathleen Lehan Katy Murphy Denice Sanc~ez Kelly Wahlen Meagan Carlevato Carmen Hernandez 
Joseph Eddy Sam Leonardo Rebecca Murray Anna Sanford Gina Wakerly• Gregory Carroll Lettie Herrera
Bridget Egan Kristin Leonardo M. J. Myette Stacie Santiago Brendan Walsh Gabriel Cassel 
Erik Eiswirth Lauren Herring Sarah Lett Mark Nakajima Richard Saxen Michael Walsh John Castellarin 
Amanda Hicks
Keli Engvall Jason Leung Kara Narucki Rita Scheidler Peggy Watson Cesar Castellon Krista Hildebrand Frank Nash Megan Welsh
Heidi Eppich Rene Levario Sarah Scheidler 
Kerry Cavanaugh Monica Hlavac 

George Fackler Michael Lewis Liza Naticchia Sally Scherer Molly Welzbacher Mekashia Chenault Sarah Hoffmann
Catherine Fallon Diane Leza Erin Neil Cecilia Schirripa Julie Wernick Jenny Choi Mame Hogan 
Katy Fallon Erin Lillis Elizabeth Nerney Michael Schmidt Lara Williams Brian Churney Morgan Farmer Mary Clare Hogan Stacy Lindstedt Pauline Noonan Michael Schultz Christopher Wilmes Kristen Clancy 
Melissa Hogg
Paul Fehrenbacher Chris Lombardi Margaret Oakar Beau Schweitzer Bethany Wilson Jennifer Clark Kelly Holohan 
Michael Fierro Erica Loye Meghan O'Brien Michael Seeley Susanne Witt Kendra Cleland Matthew Filip Eliza Hommel Ruth Luckas Bridget O'Connor Andrea Selak Beth WladykaRegina Collins Camille Fitzpatrick Jeremy Howe Rachel Lustig Colleen O'Keefe John Serrano Brian Welford Jennifer Connor Megan Fitzpatrick Courtney Howlett Ian MacKenzie Jacelyn O'Malley Jim Shacklett Anna Yates Eileen Conway Peter Folan Maria Hivatin Erin Malooly Eamon O'Reilly Jessie Shaw Marina Ziolkowski Lauren Cooke Susan Hudachek 
Kelly Folks Candice Marcum Toby O'Rourke Kyle Shaw
Kevin Cope Timothy Hurley

Erin Ford Meghan Marcus Kelly Orsi Karena Shiel 
Michela Costello Michael Hutchinson

Stephany Foster Nancy Mariano Rebecca Palmer Nicole Shirilla 
Kathryn Cousino Chloe Hutchinson 

Carla Fornelos Marisa Marquez Linday M. Papp Julie Shotzbarger 
John Crisham Joe Hyder 

James Frank Elizabeth Marsh Donata Parillo Shane Slominski
Jennifer Crone Jennifer lmundo 

Molly Franke Matthew Marsters Paola Parodi Christine Smetana
Melissa Cronin Jennifer Jablonski 

David Frick Aimie Martin Monica Part Kyle Smith
Kathleen Crotty 

Scott Friedman Shana Jackson Nathaniel Marx Kristin Patrick Stacey Smith 
Amy Crownover 

Anne Jaeger 
Megan Fry Kathryn Massey Angela Patrizio Kathleen Smith
Molly Cullen Kelly Jansky 

Stacy Fuller Erin Maxwell Mary Penny Scott Soderstrom
Elizabeth Dailey Kate Jacques 

Mary Anne McAloon
Karen Furrow Joe Penton Jennifer Solano 
John Daily Jaclyn Jaraczewski 

Lisa Gadwood Matthew McBumey Dominic Peraud Kristen Spellacy
Kevin Dalum 

Adriana Gallegos Heather Jeno Dave Mccaffrey Colleen Perkins David Spinola 
Renee Daniels Jo Ellen Jeselnick 

Cynthia Ann Garcia Jacob McCall Rebecca Perry Meghan Stahulak
Beth Davis 

David Garofalo William Jett Brandan McCarthy Mi,·helle Persinger Alyssa Stark
David de Tagyos 

Kerrie Johnson 
Martin Garry Dina McClorey Ellen Peters Kelly Starrnan
JoAnne Deeter Jennifer Johnson 

Colleen Gaughen Megan McCracken Sarah Petersen Kristen Starr 
Tim DeFors Tim Johnson 

Alexis Gaul Jean McCue Kevin Peth Rachel Steininger
Megan Oelfausse 

Amy Gawelek Jennifer Johnson Daniel McDonald Rebecca Pfouts Nina Stephan 
Friday, May 19, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 15 


A LOOK AT A LANTERN 

Campus Ministry will miss Lies 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Assisrant News Editor 
Tlw Campus Ministry oflice will not be the same next year \Vith­out Father Jim Lies. the director of spirituality and retreats who will b11 going to the Cnivnrsity of Mimwsota for a doctor­ate in moral psychology. 
"ThPrf~ ,viii bt1 a big void with his leaving. ... Jle just brings a lot of life to the ollke," said Fatlwr John Herman, who has workPd with Lies in Campus Ministry. "He's so energetic and enthusiastic." 
During his time at Notre Dame. Lies has inflw~nced Campus '.V1inistry. said the people who haw' worked alongside him. 
"He's helped us develop some new retreats," said Father Hichard Warn<~r. director of Campus Ministry. Lies also par­ticipated as a team member at four or five rPtreats every ynar. 
B(•yond his role as rotreat diroctor, Lies has also frequently conducted \1ass at the Basilica and has been the author and edi­tor of Campus Ministry's weekly "Considerations" column in The Observer. 
The fact that Lies spends time \Vith students has also been important to Campus Ministry. 
"lie knows so many students, 

probably from socializing with them," said Sister Susan Bruno, who worked with Lies as co­director of the Notre Dame Encounter with Christ Retreat. Bruno added that she will have to follow Lies' example of interact~ ing with students. 
IJerman \Viii assum<' additional responsibilitiPs in dirPcting n~trnats, whilP Bruno will assume Lips' rol•• as w,~11 as h,~r own in running thP Notre Dame Encounter. 
In addition. two new pri11sts will be joining the Campus 
\-linistry staff as part of their n~s ponsi bi Ii­tics at Notre Dame. Father Jay Steele, currently working in South Bend, will lead retreats. Father Thomas Bednar, who has spent 10 years in Chile, will work with Hispanic stu­
dents in his role as director of cross-cultural ministry. a position Lies did not hold. 
Nevertheless, members of the current Campus Ministry staff said they will miss Lies. 
"I think he did a wonderful job," \Varner said. "We'll miss him for sure." 
"It's a tremendous loss to Campus Ministry, his hall and his friends," Bruno said. "He's been one of my best friends on cam­pus." 
However, she said that every­one at Campus Ministry is excited that Lies is pursuing something he has wunted to do for a long time. She also hopes he will come back when not attending classes, something Lies said is probable. 
.. I hope to return to Notre Danw often, perhaps on th<~ occa­sional fall wePkend." Lit:s said. "Ev1\n as I tako mv leave of this placn. Notre Damn·will always be home to me.'' 
Herman said he is confident 
that Campus 
Ministry will 

"/ hope to return to Notre Dame often, perhaps on the occasional fall weekend. Even as I take my leave ofthis place, lVotre !Jallze will always be home to me.,, 
Father Jim Lies former director of spirituality and retreats for Campus Ministry 
continue to 
flourish even 
after Lies !<>aves. Lies explained that the strenbTth of the program is the fact that the staff works togeth­er in order to minister to students. fac­ulty and staff. 
"None of' us 
could do what we do without each other, and none of us would be compelled to do it at all but for our students," Lies said. "Our lay staff is as com­mitted to the mission of this University as anyone associated with this place. Our salaries are evidence enough of that." 
In January, the office will move to the new Coleman Center, cur­rently under construction at the site of the old bookstore. 


Friday, May 19, 2000 

page 16 The.Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
The Office ofrResidence Life and the Office of Student Affairs 
. . 
wish to thank the 1999-2000 Resident Hall Assistants for their hard work and dedication this year. · 
~ 
,i 
11 
I ;: 
Karla Acayan ~ Daniel Adain 
t' 
Gabriel Alejandro Shaunti Althoff Matthew Anderson Cheryl Asci Mark Auernick David Bann Steve Bartlett Sallie Baurngartner Brian Bausano Anthony Bishara Kelley Bitterly Philip Bomeli Kimberly Boulds Margaret Bowman Michael Bradt Elizabeth Brown Beth Ann Burau Peter Ca1nilli Gregory Carroll Timothy Casale Janine Casazzone Mekashia Chenault Michael Brian Churney Michael Cisternino Kristen Clancy Thomas Coffey Leonard Conapinski Howard Cornin Michela Costello Loubel Cruz Thomas Cullen Renee Daniels Richard Deer Jillian DePaul Abby Dils Laura DiPiazza Shannon Dolan Andrea Dorin Michael Downs Justin Dunn Michael Earley Joseph Eddy 

Congratulations and Good Luck! 
• 
Jason Elbert John Patrick Emmons Heidi Eppich 

K. Michael Evangelist Michael Fairchild Jamie Fanning Morgan Fanner Camille Fitzpatrick Kevin Fogarty Peter Folan James Foley Carla Fornelos Michael Garko Matthew Gentile Kristin Gerber Martha Gibney Julia Gillespie Caroline Grady Raymond Michael Greiwe Michael Griggs Kristin Grove Kevin Grugan Joshua Guerra Krista Guziec Lacey Harraka J arnes Harris Dan Hartmann John Hatzenbuehler Andrew Herman Leticia Herrera Seumis Higgins Joseph Hyder Kelly Jansky Jennelle Jarret Jennifer Johnson Laura Julian John Caleb Keenan Colleen Kelly Daniel Kirzeder Jamie Kuhn Wade Laffey Michael LaMora Bartholomew Lanahan Christina Lankhorst Christopher Lawler Grant Lee Justin Leinenweber Bryan Leitenberger Samuel Leonardo Rene Levario Michael Lewis Justin Liu Jessica Logan Patricia Lohmann Christopher Lon1bardi Benjamin Low Ruth Luckas Robert Brick Maier Michael Massarini Kevin McCluskey Jean McCue Jacob McGuigan Shay McLean Bridget McMahon Michelle Mendoza David Mikolyzk Michael Morales Jaines Moravek Joel Nagle Jessica Neff Katherine Nordahl Bridget O'Connor Thomas O'Hagan MoJly O'Rourke Aaron Osland Rebecca Pahner Donata Parillo Monica Park Mary Suzanne Penny Joseph Penton Jeffrey Perconte Colleen Perkins Jennifer Piccoli Joseph Priest Julie Reising Kathryn Rizzi Aliceson Robinson Richard Rodarte 
" 

Michael Russo Amy Saks Rita Scheidler Joseph Schneider Heather Schomann Brian Seaman Kyle Shaw Christopher Shipley Nicole Shirilla Julie Shotzbarger Katherine Soby Jennifer Solano David S. Spinola Meghan Stahulak Benjamin Stauffer John Steffan IV Timothy Stuhldreher Vivian Su Brian Sweet Melissa Tacey Angela Tonozzi Stephen Valdes Adam VanFossen Cynthia Vega Greer Vespa Julie Wernick Ryan Whit1nan Kevin Wietzke Elizabeth Wilschke Catalina Yanez Magdalena Zepeda 
We also with to thanks and ·congratulate the foil owing i\ssistant Rectors as they move on to new opportunities: 
Christopher Parent Gail Navarro Stacey Mosesso Joe Butscher 

Blake Fix Matt Hoefling Michael Galibois Kira Lodge 
Sara O'Malley Jonathan Coury Jacqueline Bicandi Brian Nestor 
Patrick Cawley Sophie Johannes Robert Kuehn Kathleen Kenney 

-Our deepest gratitude to the foil owing Rectors as they leave their current positions·. Best wishes to each of you! 
Rev. James Lies, CSC Ms. Sue Hinderlider Rev. Stephen Newton, CSC 

page 17

Friday, May 19, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
FACULTY SENATE 

Group encourages Malloy to withdraw attempted ad ban 
By TIM LOGAN Nc:ws Writer 
All year long. the University's ban on advertisements from gay and lesbian alumni and student groups has been a major con­cern for the Faculty Srnate. 
L a s t we,\k. they spoke out on it. 
Members voted 27-1 at its meet­ing May 9 to ask University president Father Edward Malloy to withdraw the policy and to dpclare that The Obsorver should not be placed under the oversight of thr 0llicc of Student Affairs. 
The request took the form of' a letter to Malloy and is not bind­ing in any way, but it reprn"mts faculty sentiment on the policy. Many professors claim the attempted ban violates academic and press freedom, and more than 215 faculty and staff mem­bers signed a petition last semester calling for its with­drawal. 


"This has been a concern of the faculty throughout the year," said senate chair Jean Porter. 
Chandra Johnson, The Observer's liason to the Ollice of the President. did not return repeated phone calls. but she and Malloy have said that the University acts as The Observer's publisher. As pub­lisher, the administration would havfl the right to determine edi­torial and advertising content. University offlcials have never tried to influence articles run in the paper, but on a few occa­sions, they have called for bans on certain kinds of advertising. The University also collects the $6 per semester fee which stu­dents voted in 1967 to give the paper. However, it provides no other funding. 
The Observer. for its part. has maintained that it sets its own policies, and the paper has run several ads from GALA-ND/SMC and OutHeachND. Editor-in-chief Mike Connolly said he appreciat­ed the senate's vote. 
"The Observer is grateful for the Faculty Senate's support and hopes the administration will understand our need for com­plete editorial freedom," he said. 
The resolution and an accom­panying report on the issue were researched and presented by the senate's Student Affairs Committee, chaired by Ava Preacher, assistant dean in the College of Arts and Letters. She said them was a lot of concern among the faculty that The Observer would be placed under Student Affairs, as Scholastic Magazine is, and assigned a fac­ulty advisor. The Observer has been entirely student-run since its founding in 1966. 

The UniversiJyJ![_Notre Dame's 
. .,--:;J;.' -. ~~
S

c1ence,/fe,~)!!lfl~gJ;!{ Values 
~· -=~\ >~Erf!t!l!iil~~\:::~~> 
·<:~-" /. ; in fhe 7::·~,, · " 
Co1lege o,t-A~ &~·Letters 
.;.;.~,-t; , ~,~ .:si. .. "1'1 ~ , ..,. 
Is pleased l(fllllllOUllCe the'/ oll~wing graduating $Indents for the 
-~­ Clait"vf·°2_ooo ,:";  
-~'t~::,.;~;:,~~'~;3~',~  .  .  
Tara M Chu-rik ,, Carrie E. Hedi11  /~;,;~1;Patthew ./. Monberg'~>-•~ Eri11 E.~'Neil ·  
Sarah K. Lett  '·--·~:'»"·,'W/ ..~•.,,,](a(hleen T. Rowla11d ..,.  
Jaso11 C. Leu11g  ~ ..~. Lor.11rt··L.  Sanchez  
Gina M. Lusardi Valerie M. Siqueria 


"If [administrators) really want to run it like a professional jour­nalistic endeavor. they need to allow it to run as it does, without fear of a lockout, or having their equipment taken or their editor fired," Preacher said. 
In January, Malloy created an ad hoc committee to review The Observer's relationship with the administration and the newspa­per's advertising policy. The committee will also study the way The Observer prepares stu­dents for journalism careers. This function of the student newspaper, Preacher said, is also important to senators. 
"Clearly [Malloy) sees The Observer as an educational tool," she said. "If it is an educa­ticmal tool. it does not belong under Student Affairs." 
The ad hoc committee was originally charged with making a recommendation at the end of this semester. but it will likely continue to study the matter through the summer. according to committee member Dennis Moore. The group will consider the Faculty Senate's recommen­dation in their discussion, Moore said. 
In other Senate News 
. Members voted 19-4 in favor of a proposal designed to curb the results of grade infla­tion at Notre Dame. 
The resolution called for two changes. One would restrict Dean's List recognition and graduation honors to no more than the top 2::i percent of stu­dents in each College. Currently, 
39.8 percent of undergraduates graduate cum laude or above. 
The proposal also called for transcripts to include the aver­age grade in classes alongside the student's individual letter grade. 
The Academic Council \Vil! consider the resolution when it meets again next semester. 
Aug. 23, 1999: Office of the President sends a letter to The Observer banning ads from unrecognized student groups. 
Oct. 8, 1999: 217 faculty and staff sign a petition protesting Father Malloy's policy. 
Nov. 9, 1999: Malloy tells the Faculty Senate that the ad policy has been in place for many years and reiterates his position that the University acts as The Observer's publisher. 
Nov. 10, 1999: The Student Senate says The Observer should be "editorially independent in all respects from the University administration." 
Nov. 19, 1999: The Observer prints an advertisement from OutReach ND. 
Jan. 18, 2000: Father Malloy appoints an Ad Hoc Internal Review Committee for The Observer to study the issue and make a recommendation to him. 
March 9, 2000: The Observer carries an advertisement from GALA ND/SMC announcing its Memorial Grants for summer service projects. 
May 9, 2000: The Faculty 
Senate votes 27-1 for a 
resolution asking Malloy to 
withdraw the policy and not 
to assign editorial oversight 
to the Office of Student 
Affairs. 



O
THE 

page 18 BSERVER Friday, May 19, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. !:lox Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 Somh Dimni; Hall. Norre Dame. IN 46'>56 
EDITOR IN CHIEF ~1ike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Noreen Gillespie Tim Lrne 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER 
Tim Logan Brian Kessler 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Grern SAJNT MARY'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Par Perers AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: ,\like Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AsST. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFJCE ........................................6J1-SJ1.3 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observcr.obsncws. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................6.3 J-5j03 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4 543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................6.31-4 540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S .............................................63 J-4.'24 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visi1 our Web site ar htrp:llobserver.ndcdu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports. features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
weekly studem reviews
minu1e forecasts 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
.111d ratt·s of print ads 
ci,1l campus coverage 
archives to searcl1 for 
about The Observer 
,miclcs published after 

ro meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by rhe smdenrs of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nm governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe righr to refuse advenist:ments based on coment. 
The 1wws is reported as accurately and obieccively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofrhe Edicor in Chiet: Managing Editor, A~sistanr Managing Ediwr and dcpamnenr edimrs. Commencaries, letters and columns presenr the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space 1s available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lelters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiow regarding Observer policies should he direct­d to Editor in Chie(Mike Co1111ol6•. 

They came in ships, at first, across the wide and treacherous oceans, mak­ing a leap of faith into the terrible unknown. From Europe and Africa at first, and then later from all corners of the world they came to this vast land. Some came in fear, in despera­tion, in poverty, in prison, in chains, or in debt -but they came, to this land of immigrants, this land of opportunity, this land of hope, this land of dreams. Hern they built the American Dream: To give a better life to one's children. So these immi­grants came and worked and strove and sweat, to build a better life for their children, and maybe -just maybe -to send those children to college, the American symbol of suc­cess. 
In a very powerful and unique way, Notre Dame is the living embodiment of the American Dream. Back in the days when Ilarvard still had quotas to keep Catholic enrollment low, when Catholics had a hard time broaking into the Eastern establishment, when Catholic boys couldn't afford to go to college, a little school in Indiana learned to play football. 
From Pennsylvania to Kansas, all across the Midwest and Gn~at Plains \-vhere so many Catholic immigrants settled, Catholics tu1wd in on the radio and lrnard colloge boys playing football. In the cities, in Boston and Philadelphia and Chicago and New York, Catholics read in the newspapers about these boys at Notre Dame who played the rough new sport. 

But these weren'tjust any boys. 
They were boys with last names like Flanagan, Schwartz, Melinkovich, Stuhldreher, O'Boyle, Savoldi, O'Neill ­names like the immigrants' own. And these boys were beating teams-like Army, Michigan and Stanford. Hight 
there in the middle of Indiana was a lit­tle schonl where Catholic boys could go to college, where sons of immigrants could receive a college education and with that education. a springboard toward the American Dream. 
My own grandfather, Frank Petelle, was born in Chicago in 1920 and grew up listening to Notre Dame games on the radio. He came of age during tlrn Depression, and couldn't afford to go to college. lie joined the Navy in World War II, fought for his country, came home and marri<~d my grandmother Lois and moved to Bangor, Mich. But his heart belonged to Notre Dame. 
My grandfather held a lot ofjobs. Ile worked at a factory, sold insurance !'or State Farm, bought some farmland and grew apples. It was never easy, and thorn was never enough money to go around. But he dreamed that one day his sons would go to college and lill<~d Uwir heads with stories of Notre Dame. 
In 1968, my father. Jim Petelle, enrolled at Notre Dame. Hn worked far harder than I've had to, in order to pay the bills that his scholarship money didn't cover. The acceptance letter, report cards and student ID that my grandparents so can~fully preserved in an album reveal their pride. My father was the first in his family to graduatn from eoll<~g,1 and was followed three ymtrs later by my Uncle Pie, vvho also attended Notre Dame. 
My father followed in his father's f'oot­steps, working hard to build a better life for his children, filling our heads with stories of the Golden Dome. In 1996, I enrolled at Notre Dame. Because of my parents' hard work. I haven't had money worries while l'vn been at Notre Dame. I've had far more freedom to pursue my interests and explore my world and live the American Dream. 
And this is the Amnrican Drnam, and every member of the Class of 2000 is the embodiment of that. Our ancflstors braved the oceans to come to a new land and build a better lifo. Our parnnts and grandparents worked and sacri­(1ced to make our lives even bdtcr than theirs wore. 
So wlrnn I receive my diploma 011 Sunday, it may havo my name on it, but it won't be my diploma. It will belong to my family and friends, teachers and supporters, who worked so hard to make sure I could be lrnrn. It will belong to my ancestors who made a ter­rifying leap into thn unknown to build a bright future for their children and grandchildren. 
But most of all it will belong to my grandfather, who drnamed of a place in tlw prairiP where Catholic kids could go to college, a place wlwre Mary stood high on a Gold<m DomP, this wondnrf'ul place called Notre Danw. 
/,aura Petelle seroed as Assistant Managing Editor al The Obsenwr dur­iny lhe 1999-2000 year. She is a gradu­ating senior who will be jointly enrolled in Duke University's /,aw and Divinity schools in the fall. zfyou would like to contact her, e-mail her at lpetelle@galwo.com. 
The l'iews expressed in this column arethose ofthe author and not ,zeces­sarily those of The Obser{)er. 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
THIS YEAR. 
E 
0 

0 

--::::::::,,.t t: 
.8 

;:; 

c;:;;;;:=:=:=:::;I I 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"l\1an is not the sum ofwhat he has but the totality of what he does not yet have, ofwhat he might have." 
Jean-Paul Sartre French philosopher 

Q. I 5 ,,$4 J.,_sg. >#4. . •.

JJ lZPX!i 
r 

·-' --·~ ___ '\ _. _; . ''---.. ' ' . 
-.......
----,.I
, .... 
' 

... .. ·. ·., ·, ...... .. . .. , ~ .,... ~ • ' ' ' ' ,; ~ f ~ , ·-t 
f.-'•11r.-l '~ : I .( < .:· ,.,,. ~ t I ( I / I I I ,:' / / I I I • I I I I ' I ,' ( { { (_ .( I J t r ' i { , .• i J I ( I (0 ( , .f f < t < !.,.. "· .t l l ,:. , ~ I / / • / I / ~• / f '//,t/1firf•;, # $ 'f / i 1· I , ·/ , I I I I · I , J / J I ; ,r ~ I ~ , 1 '! r r I I l I ; 
~ 

. ( ! I ,tf,11·•~/lll"/./t/l : I I , /. / I I ( 1 ' I / , l 

O
THE 

Friday, May 19, 2000 BSERVER page 19 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Reflecting on a hard learned lesson 
I never thought I would learn a lesson about 
lov<' from my youngnr broth<~r, Joseph Patrick 
Kcpforln. My littl<~ brother by two and a half 

years. Ev<\ryone knew him as Pat. 

I've always admired my brother for his incredi­
ble spirit and his extrPnw low~ of life. I always 
wislwd I could be more likP him. Even if a bit 
reckh~ss sometimes, he always did what he 
thought would make him and the people around 
him tlw happiest, especially when it came to his 
fricmds and family. Ile loved everything about life 
and knew how to takn this love and turn it into 
smiling faces and evorlasting friondships. 
Pat was born on March 22, 1981 and died on 
March 5, 2000. I le was a frr\shman at Towson 
University in Baltimon~. majoring in tlrnator. lie 
\Vas incrndibly popular at home and at school. 
and not bccaus(J Im was a 'cool guy.· I le was a 
gPnuilw friPnd to cvPryorw. lie vv·asn't porfPct, 
but lw was confid,~nt v,:ith himsdf and in love 
with his friends. 

IIP dcfirrnd friendship. I le was one of' thoso pnoplP \vho rnally mnant it wirnn he said 'hm\1 arf' you'!' This was lattff nmphasizcd during the days following his dPath. VVlwn I arrived at my soutlrnrn Maryland hnnw that Monday morning, cars li1wd my strn,\t. lixcPpt lwtwcPn tlw hours or 11 p.m. to 8 a.m., tlwrP WPl"I) up to 60 pPopl(~ at our housP l'rom tiw dav or his dPath until tlw dav of his fu1wral, 01w wp1;k lat.Pr. · 
Patrick's f'riPnds b11ga11 arriving in droves from tlwir 1'.olleges, many on spring break. PnoplP criml and miss<~d him gr('atly, ol' cours<~. but morn so p<'opln lauglwd and onjoycd sharing sto­ries ol' how Pat toudrnd Parh or them during his short lifP. IIP ldt an incrPdibln impression on 11vPryo1w hi' nwt. IIP was intl~lligPnt. runny and had a grPat talPnl of ad lib ronwdy. IIP pla111wd lo join tlw cast ol' Saturday Night LivP sonwday. But. tlw tnw con· or Patrick was his f'ri••nds. 
T\\o days aftPr his dPath. my family attnnded a ('.andlr~light sl'rvicn at Tmvson. Patrick had only hP1•11 then• for seven months, but I broke down and W<~pt wh<'n I saw that close to 200 of Pat's 'rlosPst' rww fri(!JHls Wl'rl\ at tlw service. Tlw l'ol­lowing wn•~k(\IHl, close to l ,000 pcopll' attcndPd his funeral !\lass. 
My healthy. happy brotlwr was strickPn with typt\-C bactPrial nwningitis, got sick and dit1d in a matter of 1,~ss than 12 hours. IIP did not kno\.\' that the symptoms of' nwningitis mimic tlw flu. II<~ went to the hospital too law. Tlwn~ ari' so . many qw'stions I could ask. but I can't look back. Patrick PnjoyPd lifo to its l"ullf~st up to his dPath. 
All I can think now is that l'VPryo1w rwnds to b£\ lik1• this. to follow this 18-ynar-old's philosophy. I know Patrick had no n•grnts in lit'e. Som('thing likP this can happtm to a11yo1w. but no oiw is 1wPr ready. Tim btist way to prPpare is to utilizn lifo and turn it into what makPs you happy. If' you do this, you \Viii t1~uch more people than you will probably know in this lifo. vVhat groater comfort rould I ask for, t'xcept to know that Patrick had no Prwmies in tlw world'! I IP lovPd lil"P and 1•v1\ry­mw lw nwt. 
I dPPply lwli(~Vn that if' ,•v1•ryo1w chooses to !Pad tlwir li\·ps tlw \Vay that Patrick led his, tlwn~ would lw no rt•grets. Lm·e likn it rwvPr hurts -it is·11w lwst advicP l\:p PV('r lward. 
Kaci Kepferle 
Senior 

fl.kGlinn Hall 
April 18. 2000 
Appreciating our goodbyes 
Goodbye midnight runs to Steak 
and Shake. 

Good riddance to all night finals 
cram sessions. 
Goodbye 
Papa John's 
and Wolfies. 
Good rid­
dance dining 
hall. 
Goodbye to 
the football 
players who 
represented 
Notre Dame 
with class. 
Good rid­

dance to any­
one who has 
met Kim 
Dunbar. 

Goodbye to the classy men's basketball coach. 
Good riddance to the classless act 
of "the bottle thrower" at the bas­
ketball game. 
Goodbye to College Night at Heartland. Good riddance to College Night at Heartland. Goodby{~ to the college sweet­heart. Good riddance to the completely random hook-ups. Goodbye to Flex points and Munch Money. Good riddance to overpriced munchies in college marts. Goodbye to the one nico, normal, security guard. Good riddance to many parking tickds and security power trips. Goodhyc to the three sunny days in May. 
Good riddance to South B<md \V<•atlwr -30 degrees Tw~sday, 80 dcgnws \Vcdnesday. 
Goodbye to tlw G~lldcn Dome and Tim Avenue. Good riddance to tlrn <wnr-going construction. Coodbyn to spending spring nights at bookstorn games. Good riddance to the s,!grngated crowds at tlrn ganws. c;oodbye to the beautiful quads. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Good riddance to Stepan, need I say more. Goodbye to Dick Addis and his renegade thunderstorms 
Good riddance to u93. 
Goodbye to the NYSP kids from South Bend. 
Good riddance to anyone who questionod their right 
to be on campus in the summers. Goodbye to tailgating, the last generation of  -17"!/t'J ~  
Bridget McGuire  
patrons, deep  
thoughts with  
roommates at 3  
a.m., Party of Five  
parties, double  
phone rings,  
SYRs, free inter­ 
net access, fall  
break, month  
long Christmas  
break, spring  
break and pro­ 
crastination  
trips to Meijer.  
Good rid­ 
dance to pari­ 
etals, sardine  
boxes called  
dorm rooms,  
10-seater planes  
flying out of  
Michiana. the  
place South Bend  
calls a mall, pro­ 
fessors who  
assign tests the  
day you leave or  
the day you return  
from a break, DART,  
mutant squirrels, 6  
a.m. dump trucks and  
lawn mowers, cereal for  
breakfast and lunch and  

dinner, 11ying squid at half­time and groupies. Good riddance to people who still need to grow up. 
Goodbye to people who have helped you grow into who you are today. 
Henwmher four years ago, when the yoar :woo se<~mcd like it was so far away? Pf'rhaps we had to expe­rience all of the "good riddances" in order to appreciate all of the "goodbyes." "Goodbye" was rwvPr meant to be easy. "(;oodbyn" hap­pens when we are unpreparnd, not looking and are denying its oxis­
tence. "Everything has its sea­son, everything has its time." This is our season. This is our time. This is it. There are things we certainly won't miss. There are so :1\)0...,_. many more that 6 we will. In the 
future, don't look back at your time here 
with regret. Look back at it as a time 
when it hurt to say good­bye. 
Farewell, "adieu," "au revoir," "adios," 
"ciao," 
peace out, later alliga­tor. 
Goodbye. For thfs is a time that we 
will never experience again. It's 
supposed to hurt. 
Kimmi Martin is a graduating (j ::wnior at Saint ~ Mary's College. Post-graduation, she will be working in a public relations firm in a suburb ofDetroit, iHich. 

5,'he'd like to gfoe a shout out to the people who hdped her write this piece; /Janna Ghirmay, Carri Lenz. Emily Bienko and Ren Troy. 
The vieu.1s expressed in this col­umn are those l~/' the author and not necessarily those of The Obserl'er. 
Parting with lingering thoughts 
Graduation is a time to look back and reminisce ­
in my case aimost six years! 
Graduate school is a unique tixprrience. more so for foreign students. It is a IHl\.V and challenging world, from thr classroom to tlrn "roommate" expnrienre. 
It d<H'S not take long to realize ho\\' Notre Datrn' is difforent -the pkturnsque campus, the football tradi­tion, the rnligious llavor. the liberal-conservative mix­ture. Thus Notre Dame is more than mP.relv an acade­mic expt'riencc and tradition. It extends fnim the classrooms, to the quads and the stadium. 
ThP most exciting times am tlw football ganw wet•k­1mds, which compare with commencement in its emo­tional undertone. The low point, for grad studm1ts: recPiving a 'B' and not gPLting l'undrd! 
\VlwrPVl\r you go from here, or come from, Notre Danw strikes you as the tidiest campus, where tradi­tion and symnwtry have not been compromismi in ov,~r 150 years, giving it an ambience that is infec­tious. Tim s11rcne lakP and the majestic domn speak volunllis, an experience bordering on psychedelic (but beware of the sprinklers at night!); the new bookstore and tlrn new Holt's recreational facility titillate the 
SCHSl'S. 

As thP Class of :woo prepares to lrntve. some 
answers linger. V\'hy is the dock on ()'Shaugnnssy 
always slow or fast? Why am tlw eltwators in DHcio so 
slow? vVhy am the computers slower during <~xam 
times and tlrn nnw printers slower than thf' old? VVhy 
are the problems not fixed? 
But, many parting thoughts are in ordPr; among tlw many, GSU for the Easter and Thanksgiving brunches, SlJB for the movies, Campus :\linistry for thP donuts and coffee during study days and OMSJ\ and tlw international dubs for promoting international diversi­ty and culture. 
The Notre Dame experi<'l1CP remains rich and rewarding, wlwtlwr it is academic discussions, late• night schmoozing in LaFortune, study tinw with toys and snacks in the librarv or romantic trvsts around 
the lakns -all moments to tn•asun· in ;TI!'ll10ry's 
chest. 

One final thought: Can the 'Fighting Irish· lep­rechaun be given a slightly morn pleasant and less menacing exprnssion? 
Noman Sattar 
Government CrJduatt" Studenr Mav I'\, 2000 




O
THE 

page 20 BSERVER Friday, May 19, 2000 
Riding the winds of change 
Well, th is is it. 
The moment we've beon either anxiously awaiting or pretending ,,,ouldn't happen. We are so happy to be done at last, yet we am strangely sad that it's rnally over. Where did all the time go? We blinked, and all of a sudden our simior year is over and we are actually graduating. 
It was raining when I packed up my room last week. ThP wind was blow­ing like crazy during that hot summer storm. and all my paperwork scattered across mv lloor in the wind. I was going thr~>ugh old pictures and letters and notebooks and lame SYH gifts, and it hit me when I rnalized that I wasn't sorting my crap into separate piles. Everything was going home. For good. There was no "hall stor­age," or "local storage" pile, no "stash this at a friend's apartment" pile, and I wasn't wondering whether or not I could sell this or that when I got back. 
I wasn't coming back. 
I don"t live hen• anymore. and it's not just my room. It's this whole plac11. We really don't live hem any­more. We are not coming back next fall. and neither will the people we can' about most here. We can't rely on running into thmn next. semester to maintain our friendships anymore. We will have to actually pick up tho phone and make an effort. When we graduat<•d from high school. wo knew that when W() canw home during the Christmas and summnr holidays, <wervone else would lw home. too. Wn knew that we could always catch up then. \'Ve had a solid honw basn, safo. stable and dependable. But here. we won't all conw back for Christmas or summ,)r; then~ is no guaranteP that we will see ,weryone again. ffootball games don't count.) 
As hard as we will try to keep in touch. we may nPV(ff see some of our closest friends hPrn ever again. The winds of change am blowing. Opportunities arf' taking us to differ­ent careers. different states. and even different countries. \\le have all learned so much from one another. but it's timf~ to say goodbye. And it's okay to say goodbye. 
The beautiful people who have 


Irish Blessing 
May the road rise to meet you. May the wind be always at your back. May the sun shine upon your face, The rains fall soft upon your fields And, until we meet again May God hold you in the palm of His hand. 
drifted in and out of our lives hem undoubtedly will be missed. but tlrny will also be remembered. Some have burst in on wild winds of change. and some have floated in on breezes so gentlc we take for granted their quiet constancy. We came to college. They moved in next door. We had the same class together. They asked us out. \,\lo worked the same shifts. They taught a cool course. There's just something about the way they seemed to undnrstand. 
Then just as suddenly. or just as softly, they are gone. Vanished from our daily lives, leaving only footprints in our memo­ries. We move off­campus. They 
opposite sched­

ules. They get sick. We change. They go abroad. We break up. They switch jobs. We get 
in a fight. They 
become 
RAs or var­sity ath­
letes. 
We graduate. 
Yeti wonder if it's more than mnre 
circum­

and send a gentle breeze stance 
wlwn we need a that first 
rnminder. It's nnver easy draws 
letting go, but we will people 
always live within the together 
memories of' these past and then 
amazing !'our years. drives 
May the bells or tho them apart. Basilica evor ring in your Perhaps ears, may tho scent of there's a burning leav,~s take you higher back to Notre Dame in design guid­autumn. and may the cry of' ing the flow of victory be yours in whatever people in and you do. But most of all. may out of our lives. you always be open to riding Perhaps others tho wild winds of changn to the are given to us to incredible adventures that are 
teach us a lesson we 

didn't even know we needed to learn. And onc(~ we·ve learned it, they are car­ried away by the winds of change to help somPone else. Or perhaps we are the ones being swept along to help another, heal a hurt or unknow­ingly teach a lesson. 
Or maybe it's all one big game of 
chance. We just happen to be in the same placn at the same time. There's no higher design, no deeper destiny, no grandiose plan. Life is pure coinci­dence and there is no particular force pushing or pulling any of us in a par­ticular direction. \\lo just are. 
Whatever we believe about destiny, divine intervention or the utter absence of either, when you stop and look around, it cannot be denied that special people float in and out of our lives in beautiful and mysterious ways. Sometimes we can do some­thing about it, but other times we just can't. Like rainy weather patterns, the winds of change come and go. Sometimes they carry us on and 
sometimes they take us back, but always, always. they move us to where we might otherwise never 
Change is hard. But we can't fear iLWe need to embrace it. love it, live it. And we won't 
be alone. You know how cer­tain people here can remind us of people from back 
home'? The people~ we will meet in our new jobs and uncertain graduate schools and exciting ser­
vice projects will remind us of those we knew here at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's in the same way. 
The spirit that binds us to this place and to each other will never die; it will simply carry us on 
Go be spectacular. 

Colleen Gaughen was the Viewpoint Editor ofThe Observer for the 1999­2000 school year. She will be working with the Peace Corps in western Russia in the fall. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Relax and 
enjoy life 
for awhile 
"Ladies or the Class of 2000. You are now all going out into what is commonly termed the "real world." We know, that after four years of' hard work and of scholarly endeavor, you will be ready to take your places in tlrn life ahead of you. We are con­fident that the education you have received at Saint Mary's College has pre­pared you to make your way in the world success­fully. \Vo are now gradu­ating the future leaders of America. 
A Saint Mary's educa­tion has developed skills of leadership in you so that you will be the future teachers, the future politi­cians, the future lawyers, the future doctors per­haps even the future presidents. In all of these fields, Saint Mary's women will lead others. Thus, we congratu­late you, Class of 2000, leaders all." 
This is the kind of stuff that you'II be hear­ing now that you -yes, YOU -are graduat­ing from college. Apparently, the walk across the stage in our basic black cnscm blcs changes us from the good-for-nothing slacker college stud<rnts that we are to the saving grace of a world rapidly descending into chaos. \Ve are now expectPd to bncomn the leaders of the new world in which we will grandly -yes, grandly -take our place (while at the sanrn time giving suflicinnt crndit to tlw institution which lwlpccl us on the path to greatness). 
Wn will accomplish grand things. write grPal novels, complntt1 masterpiece works of art, rise rapidly and spePdily up the ladder to our own corner office in the skv. And aft()!' wn have dmw all that, we can "take our place in the recruitment brochures as "Jane Schmarw, Class of 2000, ruler of tlw univnrs<)." Then WP would be rnally cxcdl<•nt advertismncnts for tlw education that we have used wis(!ly and well. 
11mm. You know, right now I don't want to bP lead(!!' of anything but th11 Couch Potato Brigade. I have worked, and worked and not slept for l'our years. lley, I'm even having trouble writing this column. Tim only problem is, I have exactly 11 minutes b(~forn I sPnd it in to my extremely patient editor. So I apologiw for the quality. But I just want to sit back on my couch, turn on the tube, and veg likn I haven't vegged since I was 10 years-old. 
True, I'd probably be bored within a week, but do I really have to makc1 the leap from struggling and clueless college student to best­selling novelist and syndicated columnist two months after graduation? I can foresnc it tak­ing me a good 50 to 60 years. maybe eternity to properly use my education. Maybe we should rethink this success thing. 
So, Class of 2000. I chall,mge you to do absolutely nothing. Lead nobody. Don't us(1 your education. Enjoy it. Sit around tlrn house and read. No, not to improve yourself. n~ad for fun. And don't worry if you won't be on your pathway to success by June 1. No problem. Sit back and enjoy it. After all, success \•viii proba­bly catch up to you sooner or later. 
Maybe. 

Nakasha Ahmad is a graduating senior al .',aint Mary's College. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily lhose of The Observer. 




. , 



O
THE 

Friday, May 19, 2000 BSERVER page 21 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Legacies live on at 
Notre Dame 
In I 900, my great-grandfather grad­uated from Notre Dame. Now, 100 years later, I am about to graduate from Notre Dame joining in a family tradition. 
This year, I have been very blessed in being able to share one year of my Notre Dame experience with my sister and brother. Phoenix is a long way from South Bend and it's nice tu have some of my family on campus. 
When I made the decision to come to Notre Dame. I had no idea that I would also be joined by my sister and broth­er. Likewise, I don't think my parents realized that one day their three chil­drnn would all be at Notre Dame and they would be responsibln for three college tuitions. My sister, brother and I am very lucky to have such wonder­ful and giving parents who have made every sacrilic<1 in the world so that we could all attend Notre Dame. I am very glad that I have the opportunity to share this weekend with my parents and tell them how much I appreciate everything they've done for me throughout my <mtire lifo. 
Although it was hard for my parents to send their oldest child off to college, they were comforted by the fact that I would be a part of the Notre Dame family. Over the past four years I have had the opportunity to meet so many wonderful people in my dorm. in the classroom and in the different organi­zations I have been involved in. All of these people have contributed to my amazing Notre Dame experience, and like Notre Dame. they will remain in my heart forever. 

As I take a walk around the lakes for the last time and visit the Grotto once more before I leave, I will be thinking about my four years here, the people I've met and the amazing experiences I've had and shared with my peers. I wish my fellow Class of 2000 members all the best in the world and look for­ward to the day when we may all meet again. Take care, God Bless and Go Irish! 
Julie Reising 
Senior Pa.squerilla Ease Hall May 5. 2000 
Graduating with four SMC guardian angels 
As I prepare for graduation, I remember that I might not have been hem; I might not have gotten to wear my cap and gown and I might not have been able to receive my diploma. Without my four guardian angels. I may not have been able to experience any of' these things. You may be won­dering about my guardian angels ­Who are they? \,Vhat happened? Do f know them? In order to answer these questions. I must take you back to a day h1~rc at Saint Mary's that I will never forget. 
It was a quiet Sunday morning here at Saint Mary's College or, at least, that is what my roommates and I thought. My roommates, Kathy Kasmc~r and Lindsay Richardson and I were preparing to go to brunch in the dining hall. This day was supposed to be a day preparing for finals. I was sit­ting on the couch in our room when the right side of my body went numb. I could not move and rcould not talk. My two roommates watched me go from slightly coherent to totally oblivi­ous but they kept their cool and phoned for help. When security arrived in our room. they tried to get me to stand up. I stood there, no fool­ing, grasping my roommate for dear lifo. Lindsay and Kathy saw their care­free and fun roommate turn into a basket case before their eyes. 
I was rushed to the emergfmcy room. My roommates stayed while countless tests-were conducted. Shortly. our friend Colleen Kross came to my bedside as 'INelL They tried to entertain me even though they knew I was in pain. My sister. Tracy. and her liance even drove into town after get­ting engaged the night before. Being from Florida. my parents were unable to come to tlw hospital. v'h~ -.,·t're in the hospital a long time that day. 
\Vhen I was relcasfld, my friends made sure I was under constant supervision. One of the tesl'> [ had at the hospital was a a spinal tap. a very painful procedure where spinal fluid was taken from my back to determine if I had a stroke. Because of the test, I was told to lay flat and was bedridden for a week. l had to return to the hos­pital a few days later because of the extreme headaches I was experiencing and had to have a blood patch done on my back. During this procedure. it was Colleen Kross that stood by my side. She held my trembling hand as the doctor placed a catheter in my back and took blood from my arm and injected it into my hack. 

Arter the procedure. I returned to my bed in Le Mans Hall. Lindsay, Kathy, Colleen, along with our friend Brooke Brumbaugh made the "Shelley Shifts"; this schedule made sure that I was never alone. These four excep­tional women unselfishly took time out of their study time in order to be with me. They rearranged their work schedules to get food for me in the din­ing hall and come and eat with me. Lindsay even delayed going home after her last exam in order to be with me. 
Only a fow people at Saint Mary's College arc even aware of this inci­dent. I can confidently say that without these caring, brave, unselfish and lov­ing women, I would not be here today. During this year's graduation, look around you -my four guardian angels may be right next to you! 
Thanks Lindsay Richardson, Kathy Kasmer. Colleen Kross and Brooke Brumbaugh. I love you. 
Shelley Raley Senior Le Mans l lall April 28, 2000 

Of all the things that Notre Dame has 
changed about me. my wardrobe has 
probably benefited the most from my 
time here. On the other hand. perhaps 
benefited isn't the right word. Suffered is 
maybe more like it. 
In just four short 
years I have gone 
from owning a col­
lection of T-shirts 
that represented a 
wide variety of 
retailers, like J.C. 
Penney's and 
Goodwill. to ovvning 
a collection of tee 
shirts that repre­
sents Notre Dame. 
During a very 
touching and emo­
tional "Last Time 
Doing Laundry in 
the Dorm," I was 
folding my quasi-dry clothing and I 
noticed that I haven't paid for a single 
one of these shirts. I would wager that 
two-thirds of your student activities bill 
goes to T-shirts, because SUB knows that 
free T-shirts are the hallmark of any 
good (read: well-attended) event. Where 
tee shirts are being handed out, there 
flock the students. Credit card companies 
know this, too. 
People will wear any kind of nonsense on a shirt if you give them it free. I have seen people wearing shirts that say in big dopey lettering: "Do you YAHOO?" My mother, an avowed ice-cream disliker, wears a shirt that extols Edy's in graphic form. I personally own a shirt I got in the mail from someplace called TWEC. I didn't order it or pay for it, as far as I can tell, and don't have any idea what TWEC is. The shirt, in fact, says on the front: "what the heck is TWEC?" It just showed up in the mailroom one day. Of course I wear it. It is a shirt, after all, and one more shirt means one more day I can go without doing laundry. 
Or how about those Late Night with Coach D shirts? Those are really, really ugly shirt'>. Even Coach D's attractive face cannot detract from the fact that these shirts have a full-sized black-and­white disembodied head on them. But people wear them. People whose wardrobes consist entirely of Abercrombie and Fitch or J. Crew will wear truly funny-looking NDToday shirts (that light blue color is so flattering) if you are handing them out. The same people who would never dream of wear­ing white shoes before Easter or Memorial Day or whenever will, of course. wear CBLD shirts at any time of year. 
I hit a T-shirt crisis at Christmas time as I was preparing to pack for a visit with my grandparents in Tecumseh, Mich. I would be visiting for four days, so l only needed to bring a couple of changes of clothes. But as I looked at the pile of T­shirts I'd brought back from Notre Dame with me, I couldn't decide what to bring. 


I wanted to wear my Domer Hun T-shirt 
to show off my stunning (not-quite-last­
place) finish there. I wanted to bring the 
neat Dillon Hall shirt I'd gotten from my 
date to their Christmas dance. I certainly 
wanted to show off my St. Joseph County 
Disaster Drill T-shirt and to tell them 
about the plane crash. The AnTostal 
shirts and the "Eat an Orange" Scurvy 
Boy T-shirt I won from the dining hall 
would make them laugh, too. I couldn't 
make up my mind, though. I had this 
stack of shirts that represented things I 
was intensely proud of or about which I 
had really fond memories, and I couldn't 
decide which I should leave behind. 
Six months later I'm in the same bind. 
What should I take with me when I go? I 
know that some of them, like the filthy, 
torn and ratty Lyons Hall Volleyball 
Tournament shirt I have worn to every 
sporting event I have played in since I got 
it, for free, freshman year, need to go. 
Their time has come and gone. But I'm 
not ready to send them off to Goodwill 
yet; I'm not even ready to cut them up 
and make a T-shirt quilt out of them. I'm 
still too proud of the events they adver­
tise and of my participation in them. 
It will be hard to start wearing these shirL5 in places where I have to explain what "The Shirt" is, or where Lyons Hall is, or what an SYR is. Sure, I've had my practice with explaining what the heck TWEC is ('Tm telling you: I don't KNOW"). But I want to show off the accomplishments these shirts represent. Not only my personal feats, such as los­ing the Mara Fox Fun Run, but the accomplishments of all the people who put time and energy into planning the Breast Cancer Awareness Baseball Game, Late Night Olympics or the Irish Iron Classic. 
That's the kind of place this is: nearly every shirt I have that I've gotten for free has come as the result of a lot of work on someone else's part, and nearly all of them are events planned for the sake of a good cause. The people who bought the shirts are concerned about whether or not the people who made the shirts are paid a livable wage. It's a good feeling. It's the kind of feeling, and people. that Notre Dame has produced. 
So, to close, an open note to Monk: Give back to the students who have done so much for this school. Fling Graduation 2000 shirts into the crowd at halftime of Commencement. 
Kate Rowland wants to say hi to her mom. Eileen and her dad, Frank and her grandparents in Tecumseh, because she has never done so in a column before. She wants to point out that she dredged 800 words ofmeaning out ofa T-shirt. and encourages you to try before you start makingfun ofher. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 



<t f (l s 
9 0 0 
O
THE page 22 BSERVER Friday, May 19, 2000 
The Senior Lecture Room at Saint Mary's frequented by members of 
the class of 1900 makes the high-tech, 21st-century classrooms used now seem lacking in character. 

PHOTO COURTESY OF NOTRE DAME ARCHIVES 
This Saturday and Sunday, seniors will don caps and gowns to form the gra~ 
Then and now: i 
By AMANDA GRECO Scene Editor 
Long lost are the days when students were referred to as "inmates," when one could not leave campus without permission granted by the president and when writing home was mandatory. Though some may sug­gest that both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame are caught in the archaic with their reluc­tance to allow co-ed dorms or forsake pari­etals, a visit to the reign of the class of 1900 pro­vides a sobering perspec­tive on just how strict things could have been for this year's graduating classes. Let us take a stroll down memory lane to see how the Class of 2000 fares when compared to the Class 
of 1900. 
Retro back to 1900 when 
Notre Dame consisted of a 
mere seven dorms and nine 
other buildings. The grounds 
of what was then called Saint 
Mary's Academy were home to a 
total of seven buildings. That year, 779 students enrolled at Notre Dame, but, unlike today, these kids ranged in age from five to 39 years old. Back then, both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's had a program called Minim in which youngsters could enroll. Though both schools had few attendees com­pared to present day, they still boasted a wide range of representation, hosting students from Cuba, Puerto Rico, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Switzerland and part.'> of Canada, ranging from Nova Scotia to the Yukon. 
The catalogues for student<; for the academic year 1899-1900 provide a brief glimpse of col­lege life at the turn of the last century. It is suggested here that those attending Notre Dame bring with them no more than "six shirts, four pairs of drawers, three night shirts, 12 handkerchiefs, six stockings, six towels, two hats, two pairs of shoes, two suits for winter, two suits for summer, one overcoat and toilet articles." It is doubtful that the average student on campus today can so briefly list all he or she has brought to the dorms. 
The booklets also list some of the basic rules 

f unless accompanied by a parent or guardian. Just imagine calling home to Nova Scotia ­"Mom, could you please come out here? I need to go to Meijer!" 
Notre Dame administration was apparently so scared by the power of South Bend to cor­rupt the devout that it forbid student.<; to roam. The students needed permission from the president to leave campus and according to the catalogue, "Studenti;; are required to report at the University immediately after arriving at South Bend. Unnecessary delay in South Bend is looked upon as a serious violation of rule." And if Domers think that OIT's suspected sur­veillance of e-mail is an imposition, perhaps they would find it more inconvenient to know that back in the day, all student mail was likely to cross the president's desk before being sent out or delivered. According to the University catalogue for the 1899-1900 year, these proce­dures prevented "clandestine and improper correspondence." 
For those of you who may find the du Lac's prohibition of smoking in campus buildings an inconvenience, consider this: In 1900, only those students living in Sorin or Corby Hall who had written permission from their parents were allowed to smoke. All other tobacco use was prohibited. 
Most of today's seniors learned early (read: freshmen disorientation) how easy it is to disregard the drinking guidelines on campus. Back in 1900 though, any use of "intoxicating liquors" was grounds for expulsion. 
Perhaps the Sisters at Saint Mary's assumed all women there were of high virtue, for the catalogue for students for 1900 has no PHOT 
COURTI

mention of drinking, smoking or other 
OF SAi 

immoral act,;;. Instead, it has provisions for the MARY 
ARCHI\

procurement of proper ladies -students were required to write home at least once a week, there were regular hours kept every week for sewing so women could keep their wardrobes in order, all pocket money was turned over to the treasurer and detailed records of expendi­tures were sent home to parents monthly. Saint Mary's women were not allowed to bring "frivolous" jewelry with them. Visitors were only allowed from 1:30 p.m. until 4:30 p.m. on Wednesdays, as the Sisters felt all other time should be devoted to studies. And you thought parietals were tough! 
and guidelines to which students must adhere. But it isn't true that this year's graduating 
LIZ LANG/The Observer 
The Belles of 1900 could not leave campus classes had it all better than their '00 counter­

,--t, -.__ 

f s s 
2 0 0 
0 

O
THE 
Friday, May 19, 2000 BSERVER page 23 
PHOTO COURTESY OF NOTRE DAME ARCHIVES 
1ating class of '00, as this graduating class did one century ago. 
rhe classes of ~oo 
part. Consider, for instance, the tuition rates in 1900. True, we must account for inflation, but can you imagine how nice it must have been to pay a mere $300 for tuition and board at Notre Dame and only $140 for Saint Mary's? For the men of Notre Dame, board included all washing and mending of clothes. Junior and senior class­men received rooms for free, while others paid between $50 to $80 for rooms. Books cost, on average, $30. 
Though students paid considerably less, they spent considerably more time at either school. Imagine a sojourn spent confined to campus property with no fall, winter or spring break, no 
Easter holiday and only two months for sum­mer. With examinations every other month and as many as nine classes in a session, it is hard to imagine the students of the illus­trious centennial class having any time to 
socialize. 

Never fear though -school spirit for Notre Dame athletics was just as strong then, though the University made it clear then as they do now that "undue attention to athletics at the expense of study will not be permitted." In the 1899-1900 issues of Scholastic, fer­vent rally cries are made for the stu­dents to fill the quads and support their teams. The football team had a great year in 1900, finishing with a 7 ­2-1 record (maybe Bob Davie should visit the Notre Dame archives to see if he can't find some coaching tips from days of yore). Baseball also finished strong, ending their season with an 
impressive 15 wins and only five losses. 

Though in those days Saint Mary's students didn't make the trek across Route 31 to see these games, they had such wonderful activities ro as stenography and bookkeeping classes to keep
'ESY 
INT them entertained. Fun was also derived from 
''S 
i/ES such gatherings as the Notre Dame "Night Owl" club. In this organization, men would gather in the Sorin Hall smoking room to perform and enjoy comic operas, vitascopic exhibitions and "everything in the theatrical line from variety shows to Shakespearian productions." Also in 1900, a great joy arose on campus when the Glee Club was formed. As Scholastic reported, "It sounds very much like a fairy tale, but this time it is true -we are to have a rollicking glee club; there is a good time ahead." Today, we have such wonders as movie the­aters and the Internet for our amusement. For the class of 1900, as reported by Scholastic, one student's sudden decision to get a haircut caused a controversy. Modern students have so many 
opportunities for fast-paced entertainment that they hardly notice if someone fails to change his or her clothes for a semester. We take for grant­ed the freedoms we have now, in a time when we can travel our wonderful town or communicate with people across the globe in an instant. Students in 1900 were confined and isolated, not only by the physical constraints of the campus they were forbidden to leave, but by the lack of such modern-day comforts as telephones, com­puters, cars, e-mail and instant messenger ser­vices. They were in awe with thP-inventions of automobiles and telegraphs. Even the living arrangements furthered their isolation. When Corby Hall opened in 1899 offering single rooms, Scholastic sang the praises of such quarters. "The modern American student must have his private room. He is no friend of communism and he shrinks from the thought of community life," the magazine reported. 
Though many things have changed and the schools have expanded, some things stay the same. Saint Mary's students have borne the has­sle of awakening to the sounds of hammers throughout this year. Many improvements were made on that campus, exactly one century ago. Those students in attendance then were said to have witnessed the definition of "the brick and mortar period of a country's growth." After com­pletion of the construction in 1900, one Belle was reported as saying, "My, how Saint Mary's is improved -so much new wall paper and so many new posts." In one issue of Saint Mary's publication, The Chimes, a writer reports the fol­lowing scenario. Imagine the Junior Study Hall, with a tasteful arrangement of pictures, statues &nd plants -when what should invade this serenity? None other than one of our favorite resident rodents, the squirrel. It seems that even a century ago these pesky little buggers dominated campus. 
Oh, but what a difference a day can make. Or a century. Our beloved campuses are shrouded in longstanding traditions and sto­ically stand steeped in history. but with each new class, we create more legends. The legacies at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will forever attest to the time you seniors have spent here in God's country. Let the proud motto for the graduating class of 1900 ring out once more. 
"Semper '00." 

Jose Cuellar contributed to this report. 
PHOTO COURTESY OF SAINT MARY'S ARCHIVES 
Where girls of the 
class of 1900 
practiced archery, 
women nowadays 
participate in more 
active sports like 
tennis. 


' . 
Friday, May 19, 2000 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 

Keyplay edges NDToday 
in talent-laden tournament 
win. Dietrich then sealed his selection asBy KATHLEEN O'BRIEN MVP by ending the game with a nothing­
Associate Sports Ediror 

but-net 3•pointer over NDToday's Tim Muething.
Trailing by one at 17-16, top-ranked The talent-filled Keyplay.com and Keyplay.com decided this was the year it NDToday.com were laden with former would not go home disappointed. It then Division I and 11 basketball prospects,scored the final five points of the champi­giving onlookers an eyeful.
onship game to make No. 2 Dillon started at point guard for the NDToday.com wait until next year this Irish this season, leading them to the NIT time. title game. Dietrich turned down Division 
"We've been to this place two years I basketball offers from Vanderbilt, Ohio, before, and ended up on the losing end Bowling Green, Yale and Miami (Ohio) in 
both times," Keyplay's Cas Schneller, a favor of a brief track career at Notre second-team All Dame. NDToday's B.J. Tournament selec­
Kloska walked on the tion, said. "We really "We really wanted to Notre Dame basketball wanted to make 
make sure we were the team a year ago. 
sure we were the Teammate Dave

ones on fire at the end." 
ones on fire at the Mikolyzk turned down end. We were deter-Division II options after . Cas Schneller an All-State career in
mined to go out as 
., 
wmners. 

Keyplay.com Wisconsin to receive a 
Both teams went Notre Dame degree. out as winners for "You get all the fans making the tourna-out there and it's great," ment a treat to watch, but only Keyplay Mikolyzk said. "It's your time to shine a 
managed to take home the trophy. little bit." 
Keyplay's Jimmy Dillon and Tom Keyplay beat Versatility 21-15 in the Dietrich unleashed a torrent of baskets to semifinals, while NDToday defeated secure the victory. Majesties 21-10 to reach the title game. 
Dillon, the Notre Dame varsity record­It was the third trip to the finals for 
holder for steals and assists, turned up Dietrich, Schneller and teammate Paul the heat on the Bookstore court. And Moore, and their second ,vith Teasdale. then he tied things up with a slam-dunk In the women's tournament, Erin 
on a pass from Dietrich, the Bookstore Brandenburg led her top•ranked JMKE Basketball MVP. squad to a 21-9 win in a grueling battle Dietrich followed suit the next trip against No. 2 Muffet's Second String.
down the court, dropping in one of his Brandenburg scored eight points in win­team-high eight baskets with a pull-up ning her third consecutive women's jumper. Dillon drilled a shot from near Bookstore championship.half-court to put Keyplay up 19-17. Earning men's First Team All­"Jimmy had that 3-point shot. That Tournament honors were Mikolyzk, 
was a bomb.'' Dietrich said. "That made Kloska, Versatility's Ross Hansen, Pete them tighten up on defense and let us get Ryan of The Majesties and the F-Bombs' to the basket." Sean McCarthy. Dietrich, a senior, was 
Football crossover John Teasdale named Most Valuable Player of the tour­knocked down a free throw to put ney. Steve Craig of Franchise was named Keyplay just one point away from the Mr. Bookstore. 
Irish capture yet another Big East Championship 
history.
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
"The key ingredient was the senior Sports Writer 
class," Weathers said, who formed the group as his first recruiting class. 
The top spot on the winner's podium "They wanted to win the first year. and at the Goodwill Games Aquatic Center they've been set on winning ever in Uniondale, N.Y., is getting to be a since." familiar one for the Notre Dame Success was not limited to the women's swimming and diving team, seniors. Junior sprinter Carrie Nixon especially after its fourth consecutive continued to add impressive marks to Big East Swimming 
her Notre Dame career. capturing and Diving three individual wins, four relay wins, Championships five Big East and Notre Dame records victory. and 2000 Big East Swimmer of the 
But it never gets Year honors at the Big East old. Championships, and All-America hon­
In far,t, the ors in the 50~meter freestyle at the women always NCAA Championships. seem to find a way Nixon was one of six swimmers who to pu_t a new spin Suddarth led the squad to an 18th place finish at on an old feeling, NCAAs, the highest of any Notre Dame racking up more swimming squad. impressive tallies with each consecu­"Our finish at NCMs was the most tive victory. Winning the championship critical thing this team has accom­by more than 400 points over its closest plished," Weathers said. "We entered competitor, notching five Big East and the meet wanting to be in the. top 20 Notre Dame records, and adding an and have all the girls score in the meet, 18th place finish in the the NCAA and we did that. It's a big step for this Division I Swimming and Diving team." Championship, the 1999-2000 team Suddarth closed her career capturing 
put together what was most likely one her eighth All-America honorable men­of the most impressive campaigns by tion in four years. The 400 medley any swimming squad in recent history. relay of Barger, Suddarth, Nixon and It was also the best showing of any sophomore Kelly Becking also earned Notre Dame swim team during head All-America status, winning ninth place coach Bailey Weathers tenure, he said at the NCAA Championships. after winning his fourth title. Sophomore diver Heather Mattingly "This has probably been the best notched All-America honors, placing team in terms of focus that I've seen," 15th in the three-meter and one-meter 
Weathers said. "When you work hard, diving competitions. you get rewards, and that's something With such a solid base, looking to the really special to see." future is encouraging. But at the con­
The senior class, comprised of clusion of such a noteworthy season, it 
Shannon Suddarth, Elizabeth Barger, can be hard to do anything else but cel­.,.\lison Newell, Rhiana Saunders, Gina ebrate. Ketlehohn and Laura Shepard, were "This is definitely overwhelming," forceful contributors to that showing, said Barger. "It's hard to sit down at all 
with the six graduating as the highest­when you're just thinking about cele­scoring class in Notre Dame swimming brating." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. m 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

1)  5-bedroom, $1000/month  + MORE. 631-3913/247-0114.  Marc,  ... ss  me more involved in The Observer  
LOST & FOUND  2) 2) 2-bedroom. $500/month We'll make almost any changes to  Deluxe 2BR, 1-1/2 bath condo. All  Thanks for the inspiration. Michelle  Mark,  than I ever hoped to be ­it was one of the best things I've done  
the houses. Call Bill at 675-0776.  appliances. Garage. Handy to cam- Whoever knew that a blind date  here. -Molly  
,/  LOST: Gold charm bracelet on campus the weekend of 4/29. Please call 1-708-352· 7653.  2 BR, 2nd floor apartment, $525/month Along St. Joe River. Includes water/sec. system/trash 288-2654  pus. Mary Jo Shively (24 hr) 235-3501. ReMax 100 Realty 255-5858  Congratulations Sean! I love you. Earn $ for school next year by launching your own global  could turn out so well? I could not ask for more. I love you. Noreen M'Shan  Brian and Kerry-Thanks for a great year in the sports department. The paper looked great and it was a ton of fun. I'm glad l ran into you at  
WANTED  Nice homes north of ND. Good area. 277-3097.  PERSONAL  lnterneVCommunications business for less than $300. Grab your share of this billion dollar Internet industry.  I wasn't kidding when I said you taught me everything I know. Go rock Philly like it's Saturday at the  TC at the beginning of the year, BK. and decided to stick around this semester. -Kathleen  
Need help with a project?  Never before in the history of  'Backer. (But don't get kicked out!!!)  
Summer Server Needed. Flexible Hours, Great Pay.  Seniors!!! Working in Chicago in the fall? One roommate needed for  Complete DESKTOP PUBLISHING services are available at  mankind has there been such an opportunity to make money.  Noreen  Laura-We don't know what they teach them in Northbrook, Ill., but  
Close to Campus.  Lincoln Park area.  THE COPY SHOP  Includes personalized WEB page  Boss,  wow! You left us some big shoes to  
K's Grill &Pub 277-2527 Professor seeks summer nanny for  II interested, contact ASAP!!! 251-9535, ask for Rebecca.  LaFortune Student Center Call 631-COPY  with over 1 million name brand products. Professional training pro• vided by ND alum.  Thanks for everything you gave The Observer. The Big O has never par­tied harder or looked better than  fill. Thanks for all decrees from the back desk and your copious knowl­edge of AP style. You've been a  
energetic 4-yr-old boy. Must like horses, horse shows. Weekends. Call Prof. Miller at 631-4133. Stipend plus expenses. Summer employment in Granger for child care for 8 and 1 O yr old girls.  Summer interns! Apt. for rent in Chicago's Lincoln Park area. Avail. July 1-Aug. 31 (w/opt to extend for 12 months). 2 BA, 1 bath, kitchen w/new appliances, large DR, deck, yard. On tree lined street 1 .5 blocks from el and bus.  Fax it fast! Fax it last! Fax it last! Sending & Receiving THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631·3291  Call 1 ·888-291-5689 Pin # 9718 b-Now is never too late.-m chicks Krupa,  when you were EiC. I have some big shoes to fill. Connolly M'Shan, You have given me not only journal­istic tips, but 'Backer tips as well. I  wonderful mentor and we'll miss you a lot. Tim (your copy editor forever) and Christine (thanks for that job fresh­man year!) Michelle-You've been a great  
4 days a week, must have own transpo. Looking for someone who wants to interact and play with the  $1155/month. Call Arny 773-868-6064.  THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center  Remember that hour and a half in the McGlinn Lobby my freshman year? It made all the difference.  don't know which one I'm more grateful for! I will miss you and cheer for the Tribe with pride.  inspiration, in class and in the office, and an amazing influence. Good luck at The Beacon and in all  
girls. Interested applicants should  High Speed Copying  Thanks for being a leader and a  Molly  that you do. You deserve all the  
contact Amy Mailander 273-1975. References and resume needed.  FOR SALE  Color Copying Resumes  mentor. I only hope my news sec­tion can be half as good as yours.  Sharis and Anne ­ thanks for  best Thanks for everything. ­Christine  
Business Cards  You're my hero! Love, :0) AMM  being awesome people and chem  
Alum buying Notre Dame football memorabilia: programs, ticket stubs, equipment, etc.  Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame.  Fax Service Desktop Publishing & a whole lot morel  M'Shan, I'll drive you home in the dark any  majors!! Good luck in everything you do. --Molly  Senior O people, We will miss you so much next year. Thanks for everything!  
Call 277-3097 or write Dave Schroeter, 15817 Ashville Lane,  New, never used, still in plastic. $235. 219-862-2082  Prompt Pick-Up & Delivery Call 631-COPY  time, as long as you don't try to make me run the red lights! I've had  Michelle What do I say? You've taught me  Shannon,  
Granger, Indiana 46530  a great time ­ good luck in  how to be professional and have  All I have to say is "Who'd you  
Email ndrock74@aol.com Wanted to buy ­men's &women's  Mazda 626LX '90, air, sunroof 4-door, great cond., $3300 219-291-1927  pq last one. love you mk  Philadelphia! :0) AMM P-tel, Long live ER' I'll work for you  fun at the same time!! You will sue­ceed in whatever you do in life. The dumb things I did at your parties will  rather?" Thank you so much for all the fun nights and laughs. It's been the greatest working with you. Good  
bikes. Call 273-0251.  any time, so long as you tape it.  remain some of my favorite memo- luck, I'll be looking you up babe! ­ 
I need grad ceremony tickets. If you have extra pis call Rob 246-0621.  1987 Black Saab 9000 In great shape. Need to sell! $2300-nego­liable. Call Stacey: 634-2511  Mom and Dad, Thanks for everything. I love you. Mimi  Good luck at Duke ­I'm sure you'll win all your arguments. Cheers, :0) AMM  ries! Molly Colleen, every time I have a glass  Christine Krupa-Thanks for pushing me, teaching me and being a great boss  
FOR RENT  callaway ere 1o· driver stick shaft. Call 277-7304 before 9 pm  0 kids, I'd better get classifieds sometime in my lifetime subscrip- K L I'm going to miss you so much, but ru always be here follow­ing your footsteps. Congratulations.  of wine, I will think of you and smile. Good luck and God bless. Molly  and a great friend for the last two years. Good luck at The Beacon and everywhere you go from there.  
94 VW GOU  lion. Krupa  I love you.  Laura ­ Thank you tor being  Later. dude. -Tim  
Houses for r<>nt:  5speed/4dr/65K/air/sunroof/stereo  another one of the people who got  

.~---:::::::i.....a. 

Friday, May 19, 2000 page 25
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
OFFICE OF THE 
PHONE 219/631-7394 VICE-PRESIDENT FOR STUDENT AFFAIRS FAX 219/631-5656 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 46556-5602 
Commencement Weekend 2000 
Dear Graduates: 

I would like to take this opportunity to extend my prayers and best wishes to the members of the 
Class of2000. I also want to express my gratitude for the rich contributions you have made to 
the University during your time here. 
For those of you who are graduating Seniors, I hope that we have achieved our goal of providing you with an education that integrates the life ofthe mind with the life ofthe heart. May your con1111itn1ent to your faith in God and to the service of God's people match your dedication to your chosen vocation and profession. We have high expectations ofour graduates. The tren1endous contribution that our alumni make to society and to the Church is a testa111ent to the in1portance of these high expectations. 
For those of you leaving with graduate and professional degrees, I hope that you will carry with you the best of our traditions as they relate to your discipline. Ifyou bring to your chosen field a strong set ofethical convictions and a commitment to justice, you will represent the very best of Notre Dan1e. 
May Our Lady, Notre Dame, continue to watch over you in the years ahead. We are blessed to have you as me1nbers ofthe Notre Dame family. 

(Rev.) Mark L. Poorman, C.S.C. Vice President for Student Affairs 
page 26 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Barger carries Belles, earns honors 
applied that well during their By SARAH RYKOWSKI first season as collegiate coach­Sports Wrirer es," Barger said. 
Barger was elected to the All­
Led by senior tri-captains MIM First Team , the first Belle Katy Barger, Rachel Egger, and in Saint Mary's history to make Erin McCabe, along with class­either the First or Second Team mate Liz Coley, the Saint Mary's in soccer. Belles soccer team finished fifth "Katy Barger is one of the best again in the players to ever 
the pass through
MIAA in "Katy Barger is one of
fall of l 999, the doors of 
with a 3-4-l the best players to ever [Saint Mary's 
record in con­pass through the doors of College]," ference play. Milligan said.
[Saint Mary's College]." 
Despite their "She possesses so-so confer­talent that enee record, Jason Milligan would place the BP lies her among the
head coach 
improved from thnir ov<•rall 1998 total of 6-10-2 to a 9-6-2 season record. They also held sole possession of fifth place this year, after finishing in a tie \\'lLil Albion in 1998. The 1999 season endPd with a loss to Olivet College during the l\1IAA season tournament. 
"I think that it says a lot about our team that even though we finished fifth in tho conference we still got recognition," Barger said. "vVe really had a success­ful year." 
The three co-captains credited their new coach for this improvement. Jason Milligan \\'as the assistant coach during the 1998 season before taking the helm as head coach. 
"I think Jason's coaching style helped the girls to grow as a team." McCabe said. "This year we had both the nxcellent indi­vidual talent and thn synergy to make this a winning sl:iason." 
Harger seconded ~kCabe's opinion but also crPdited lirst­ye ar assistant coach Jared I lochstetler. 
"Jason and Jared have great insight into tho game and tlrny 
best players in 
the nation." 

Barger scored eight goals and assisted on nine more for the 1999 season. She finished with 25 points and made the MIAA League Leaders' List for her assists. In addition to Barger's award, Egger was named to the All-MIAA Coaches' Honorable Mention list, along with Mary Campe and Heather Muth. 
"[The fact that] some of us did receive conference honors is a tribute to the whole team," Barger said. "fSoccerl is a team effort." 
With goalie Brie Gershick, Egger and her defensive team­mates allowed only 26 goals on the season. 
"Hachel really did a great job as far as holding the defenst~ together," Milligan said. "Her leadership on the team this year has been wonderful. She always brings a smile and a good work ethic to practice." 
Barger, EggPr, Coley and McCabe all made the Coaches' llonorable Mention in 1998, along with current sophomores Katy Hobinson and Jessica Klink. and junior Laura Paulen. 

' . 

The Observer . SPORTS Friday, May 19, 2000­
VOLLEYBALL 
Seniors take Belles to tourney 
By KATIE McVOY Assistanr Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team had a breakthrough sea­son under the leadership of first year head coach Randa Shields. 
Led by seniors Agnes Bill. Jayne Ozbolt and Mary Rodovich, the Belles advanced to the semi-finals of MIAA play and finished fourth in the con­ference. The team will miss the seniors as they head off to bigger and better things. 
"In terms of leadership and enthusiasm, this is a group that will be missed." head coach Randa Shields said. 
Before the season began, 
Shields was looking to build team spirit and a cohesive playing force. She did just that. 
Early in the season the team faced communications prob­lems that disrupted play. but by late in the season, the women were on track, com­municating well and executing plays extremely well. 
Shields, as a first year head coach. wanted to get the team into the MIAA tournament at the end of the season. 
With the help of her senior team members, she did so. Bill led the offense in points scornd on aces and digs, and joined teammate Ozbolt to lead the scrappy Saint Mary's defense. 
Saint Mary's started off the season with a loss to Elmhurst College, but came back to win three out or its next four games. 
Saint Mary's defeated four conference rivals during rngu­lar season league play. 
In MIAA tournament play. they defeated Kalamazoo before falling to top-ranked Hope College in the semi­finals. The Belles finished the season with a 13-10 record, an improvement over last year. 
Saint Mary's will welcome back one senior, four juniors and three freshmen, including Bill's younger sister Ann. next season. Agnes Bill finished off a distinguished carm~r at Saint Mary's by receiving the Marvin Wood Outstanding Senior Athlete Award. 

CROSS COUNTRY 
Running pack leads to solid season 
By MOLLY McVOY Saint Mary's Editor 
Despite a tough conference finish, the Belles cross-country team had one of its more solid seasons in its short history. 
Saint Mary's finished tied for seventh in the MIAA and fol­lowed their pack running style that had been characteristic of the team all season. 
"I actually consider last sea­son to be the most successful in our short history," said head coach Dave Barstis. "We may have not had a great confer­ence year, but we had the most runners we've every had and our top seven were all under 22 minutes." 
The Belles cross-country team finished its season at the Regional Championships at Ohio Northern University in November. Saint Mary's fin­ished 28th out of 35 teams. The top Belles finisher at the tour­nament was, followed by seniors Melissa Miller and Krista Hildebrand. 
"The neat thing that we did this year which we haven't done in the past was to have our top five runners all come in together," junior co-captain Genevieve Yavello said. "The pack was really good th is year." 
In addition to Miller and Hildebrand, the team will lose Bridget Heffernan to gradua­tion. 
"We'll definitely have a hole to fill as far as our performance in meets," Yavcllo said. "We're losing two of our top runners, but, more importantly, we·n~ losing three very strong leaders on our team." 
Hildebrand and Miller fin­ished 61 and 69 respectively at the MIAA championship m,wt. 
Next season, the challcng<\ will be to fill in thn gap lef't by the seniors. 
"Next year, we lose sev1~ral people, and, well, its going to be interesting," Barstis said. 


Why start your day stuck in traffic? There's no such thing as rush hour at an EYA wilderness camp. Our youth counselors live and work in some of the most beautiful, natural settings in the eastern United States. Hike the Appalachian Trail. 
better than breathing exhaust fumes twice a day? For more information, park your mouse at www.eckerd.org. 
Send resume to: 
Selection Specialist/NO, P.O. Box 7450 
Clearwater, Fl 33758-7450 Canoe the Suwanee. Sleep under the or e-mail to: recruiting@eckerd.org
stars. Develop personal relationships. And help at-risk kids get back on the 
All majors encouraged to apply. right path. Doesn't that sound a lot Paid training provided. 
1-800-222-1473 • www.eckerd.org EOE 
page 27

Friday, May 19, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Deloitte &Touche 
Deloitte &Touche is an equal opportunity firm. We recruit, employ, train, compensate, and promote without regard to race, religion, creed, color, national origin, age, gender, sexu~ orientation, marital status, disability, veteran status or any other basis protected by applicable federal, state or local law. 
02000 Deloitte &Touche LLP. Deloitte & Touche refers to Deloitte &Touche LLP, and related entities. 
I 
l 
page 28 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, May 19, 2000 
CROSS COUNTRY 

Two of a kirtd: Men and women advance 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame cross coun­try teams made Irish fans see double at the NCAA Championships, as both the men's and women's squads advanced to nationals. 
"It was very successful on both the men's and the women's side," head coach Joe Piane said. "By virtue of the fact that you just make it to the NCMs, that makes it a success­ful season." 
The men's squad returned to nationals for the seventh time in eight years. after missing out on a bPrth last season. I ,ed bv All-American Ryan Shay, who placed 12th, the Irish captured eighth place, after starting the season unranked. 
"As a team, we turned a lot of people's heads," Shay said. "We went into the season unranked, and didn't even make nationals last year. We came back with basically the same team but a totally different attitude and endeci up eighth in the nation." 
Shav crossed the finish line first f<ff the Irish all year, cap­turing titles at the Big East Championships and Notre Dame Invitational. 
"Hyan was the first guy from Notre Dame to win the Notre Dame Invitational since 1969," Piane said. "I've had some won­derful cross country runners in my tenure here, and they never won it." 

The men rode the waves of success aJI season long. They earned a first-ever Big East crown. Piane earned Big East Coach of the Year. Shay, sopho­mores Luke Watson and Marc Striowski, and senior Ryan Maxwell all earned All-Big East honors. 
The women squeaked into the national meet with an at-large berth. The Irish finished 29th in their first NCM Championships since 1993. 
Although the Irish qualified for nationals, the season did not meet expectations. After losing All-American JoAnna Deeter at mid-season due to personal and medical reasons, the Irish struggled to retain their form. 
"It wasn't what we started out to accomplish." women's head coach Tim Connelly said. "We lost our best runner." 
Senior Alison Klemmer picked up the pace for the Irish in Deeter's absence. Klemmer was helped out by Patty Hice, Nicole LaSelle and Jennifer Handley. 
The Irish placed fifth at the Big East Championships behind a · fourth-place finish by Klemmer. 
"I thought we raced really well at the Big East meet," Connelly said. "Alison had prob­ably the best cross country race that she had in her life." 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Coach's death overshadows season 
By KERRY SMITH 
Spo~ts Editor 
Marred by the unexpected death of Irish head coach Mike Berticelli in January, the men's soccer 
t  e  a  m  
faced  a  
year  of  

wins and losses on and ofTthe field. 

the helm Berticelli of Notre Dame's soccer program, Berticelli earned a 104-80-19 
record and led his team to three NCAA tournament appearances and one Big East conference championship, while passing the century mark in wins in his final campaign. 
"It was awful -it was the worst thing that most of the guys on the team faced in their lives," said former assistant and newly-appointed head coach Chris Apple of Berticelli's death. "It was a very emotional time and still is -and as difficult as it is to find a positive from this, it is that this ordeal has brought us closer together." 
Berticelli's death left a black mark on a year that produced many highlights on the playing field. 
Compiling a 8-9-3 record on the season, the Irish relied on a handful of key seniors for a soHd foundation, while getting a 
spark from several underclass­
men. 

Seniors Gerick Short in goal. 
defender Matt McNew, mid­
fielders Jason Jorski, Peter 
Bandera and Matt De Dominicis 
and forwards Andrew Aris and 
Ryan Cox provided the framo­
work. 

"During the seniors' fresh­
man year, they achieved more 
than any other team had in the 
program's history with a trip to 
the final 16 of the NCM tour­
nament and a Big East champi­
onship win," Apple said. "They 
made an immediate impact and 
continued to do so throughout 
their careers." 

Short, a fifth-vear senior 
started in all 20 contests and 
earned a goals-against average 
of 1.20 and a .752 save per­
centage in his first and final 
year as the starting Irish goal­
keeper. 

McNew, the undisputed anchor of the Irish backfield combined quick play and scrap­py defense to hold Notre Dame's opponents to just. 93 · shots in 20 games, while help­ing the Irish offense to deliver more than double that number 
ofshots on opponents' goals. 

But the Irish had trouble cap­
italizing on their opportunities. 
"We struggled all season to 
finish and find the back of the 
net," Apple said. "We were in 
the top 10 in the country for 
shutouts, but we just struggled 
to score." 

Aris and Cox, who split for 
four goals, struggled to score, 
but still exerted a commanding presence on the field. Aris tal­lied five assists, finishing sec­ond on the team in that catego­ry. Both of Cox's goals were game winners. 
The Irish offense was bol­stered by a successful season by freshman forward Erich Braun. Braun, earned Big East Rookie of the Year honors and led the Irish with nine goals and six assists. 
The Irish started the season strong with a 3-1-1 record, with wins over Northwesh~rn, Boston College and Cleveland State. But then they dropped three straight. A 5-0-1 streak in mid-season brought their record to 8-4-2, but then the Irish finished the year in a six­game winless slide. 
Despite the late-season slump and loss in the first round of the Big East tournament to cap the '99 campaign, Apple is pleasPd with the team's season. 
"Regardless of wins or losses we achieved our No. 1 goal of making it to the Big East tour­nament," he said. 
While losing a strong senior class could hurt the Irish next year, Apple is optimistic about his squad's chances in the com­ing season. 
"We have a great group of freshmen coming into the pro­gram -possibly tho best recruiting class ever," he said. "They might not be able to replace the maturity and lead­ership that our seniors provid­ed but they will bring a whole new and exciting clement to the team." 



CONGRATULATES 
SHIRLEY G 
UEL 
ON 20 YEARS OF LOYAL SERVICE. THE OBSERVER WOULD NOT BE 
WHAT IT IS TODAY WITHOUT YOU. WE HOPE YOU STAY WITH US FOR ANOTHER 20 YEARS! 
-THE 1999-2000 AND 2000-2001 EDITORIAL BOARDS 
~=====-~-=-~=============~==~=-===~ 


19 2
-~~ ==Frid===ay,==Ma==y==, ==oo==o=======================Ti~'he~Obs~erve~r•~PA~ID~A~D~VE~RT~IS~E~ME~N~T=============================~pa~ge29 

LUM NI ND/SMC 
Congratulates 
all the lesbian, gay, bi and transgender graduates of 2000, and their graduating friends and supporters... 
& Welcomes 
you, your family and friends into our strong and growing alumni organization. 
GALA-ND/SMC (Gay and Lesbian Alu111.ni/ae of the University of Notre Da111.e and Saint Mary's College) is an educational non-profit membership organization with nearly 800 members representing alumni, faculty, staffand families of the University and College. 
Our user-friendly organization has no official affiliation \\Tith-and receives no financial support from-the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College. Our strength and support coines fro111 our 111en1bership and our nu111bers. 

To receive your welcoming first-year membership packet 
and for more information about our organization e-n1ail us.at: galandsmc@aol.com or -write us at: GALA-ND/SMC 
P.O. Box 257703 Chicago IL 60625-7703 



page 30 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, May 19, 2000 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

All-American Riley leads Irish to Sweet 16 appearance 
By TIM CASEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Self-promotion is not a main chararhw trait of Huth Riley. The lirst-tPam All-American and two­tinw Big East Defensive Player of tlw Y11ar would rather discuss almost anything than lrnr indi­vidual accomplishments. 
.. I worked a lot on my game over the summer [of 1999) so I 

..... was anxious to see how it would all work out," said the humble Riley. "I had a pretty good year, I guess." 
But when it comes to talking about her teammates and the Irish's 1999-2000 season. Hiley doesn't mince words. 
"\Vi! were more consistent this year," Hiley said of her team, which finished 27-5. "And since our team was so talented and deep. it allowed for certain play­ers to have an off night." 
It was a winter to remember for Notre Dame basketball. Men's coach \.tatt Doherty and sophomore Troy Murphy brought their team to national prominence with students and fans disgusted with the state of tlw football program. 
But the women's team grabbed its share of fans and attention as well. 
Before the season even started. even before the first oflicial prac­tice, optimism was in abundance in the women's inner circle. One reason for the positive outlook was the emergence of Alicia Ratay, a freshman whose talents 

f •­
were obvious from the time she 
stepped on the floor in pickup 
games with her teammates. 
"She was such a grnat shoot­er," Hiley. "It was tough to hide." 
Hatay's shooting skills gave the already experienced Irish more balance. They returned five play­ers taller than six feet. including 6'3" senior Julie Ilenderson and juniors Riley (6'5") and Kelley Sinmon (6'3"). And Niele Ivey and Danielle Green retured as guards for the Irish. Add in Hatay. and Notre Dame was a serious contender for a Final Four berth in head coach Mulfot McGraw's hometown of Philadelphia. 
At the beginning of the season, the eager Irish hacl their ups and downs. A pair of victories over 

. ! 

~~Cl-t"~~ 
Thank you for 
continuing the 
Kolski tradition 
C/'""/
,_L_Y f[Jt.J-<~f/<Jtl 
Edwin 1932 Edmund 1928 Alvin 1931 Philip 1969 Melissa 1996 

) I Christina 2000 
North Carolina and Liberty for 
the title in the Wachovia 
\Vomen's Invitational 
Tournament in Richmond, Virg .. 
were sandwiched between 
defeats at the hands of Illinois 
and Purdue. 
Following the 71-61 loss to 
Purdue came a stretch of games 
that established the Irish as con­
tm1ders. From Dec. 11 until Feb . 
22, the Irish won 20 straight 
games, a school record. 
"Looking back you didn't really 
realize that w<i won so many in a 
row," Riley said. "We weri1 just 
taking it one game at a timP... 

Maybe even more important than the victories, the Irish won a new loyal fan base during their .torrid stretch. And for good rea­
son. 
Follmving each game tho play­
ers would stand in line for a half­
hour, sometimes an hour. sign­
ing autographs and taking pic­
tures with the fans. They real­
ized the importance or'giving 
back to the community, of show­
ing the fans they appreciate their 
support. 
"Every year there's more fan 
support," Riley said. "We got a 
lot more attention." 
The attention was deserved. 
Every night there seemed to be a 
new name in the headlines and 
this balanced attack proved cru­
cial to their success. They had 
Ivey at the point, who could 
dominate a game without scor­
ing, Green. a quick penetrator, at 
two-guard, a shooter at small 
forward in Hatay and a pair of 
aggressi,..ve defenders and 
rebounders at power forward in 
Siemon and Henderson. 
Then there was Riley and her 
consistency in the middle. Each 
night McG.raw could depend on 
her center scoring at least 15 
points and grabbing eight 
rebounds while also altering 
opposing team's offensive game 
plans. 
The most satisfying victory for 
the Irish was a 78-74 win over 
Rutgers on Feb. 19. Down six 
points with 17.3 seconds 
remaining. it looked like the 
streak would end. But no one 
told that to Hatay, and the fresh­
man sank t\vo three-pointers in 
the final s,1c<rnds to force over­
time. She finished with 26 points 
on seven of sevcn three-pointers 
and a perfect five for five from the line. 

Connecticut, who would go on to win the national champi­onship. put an end to the Irish's 20 game win streak a week later. The Huskies used a bal­anced attack from perhaps the most talented collection of women ever on a college team to defoat the Irish 77-59. 
It was the b,~ginning of a tough month for Notre Dame. 
They lost to Rutgers in the Big East semifinals after leading for most or the game. A week later, they hosted the flrst and second round of the NCA,--'\.s at the Joyce Centf'r and beat San Diego and GPorge \'Vashington to advance to the Sweet 16. 
Th<~ season ended unexpected­ly against Toxas Tech at the regional semifinals in Memphis, Tenn., the follovving weekend. The Irish raced out to a 17-0 lead and looked like they were on their way to a date with Tennessee. 
But Texas Tech came back. scoring the next 17 points and playing even with the Irish for the remainder of the game. After Hiley fouled out with less than two minutes remaining the Irish could not fight back. Rutgers won 69-65, denying Notre Dame a chance for the Final Four. 
"Losing in the Sweet 16 was real disappointing," Riley said. "We felt we could have done a lot better." 
Hiley has one more shot at ful­filling her team goals. Only Henderson and Green graduate from this year's team so the 2000-2001 squad has high expectations. 
"We're going to be better next year," Hiley said. "f-or a lot of us it's our last year. I know every­one's going to have a little more s1msP of urgency." 

LIZ LANG/fhe Observer Julie Henderson (No. 32) was one of two seniors on this year's 27-5 Irish team, along with Danielle Green. 
University of Notre Dame Department of ivlusic presents 
Zlrbe Jlotre 71Bante QCIJorale & QCIJa111ber ®rcbestra 
Alexander Blachly, Director 

Byrd Bach Lassus Schiltz Messiaen 
4:00 p.m. 
Friday, May 19, 2000 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Free & open to the public. www.nd.edu/~congoers for more info 



Birds of afeatherwillalwaysflock together 
GOOD  LUCK  NEXT  YEARl  
THE  LEWIS  HALL  SENIORS  
WILL BE  MISSED  

I l i ! 

Friday, May 19, 2000 page 31
The Observer . SPORTS 
HOCKEY 

leers advance to conference semis 
By MATT OLIVA Sport, \'friter 
Af't<•r a slow start, the Notrn Damn hockPy tPam tunwd its season around in time to r.laim honw icP for the first round of tlw CCI IA playoffs, and thPn cap­italized to earn their first trip to tlw conforenre si•mifinals in 18 
Yl!Ul'S. 
Pn~sPason polls predict11d a top four conl'erence finish for the Irish again this year, dnspit,~ the graduation of three of' thP team's top five scorers. But oarly on, it did not look like those predic­tions would come true. 
Tlw Irish vvon only three of tlwir first 10 conference games lrnfon' a critical Ike. 5 ganrn against Michigan Stato, which was ranked Nu. 5 in the country. Tlw Irish rrnednd a big series against tlw Spartans to g<it back on track. Hyan Dolder's third pnriod goal gave the Irish a 1-0 victory, tlwir first at home against tlw Spartans in the last ttm mnntings. 
Tlw Irish stayed in the hunt for tlw fifth playoff spot -and honw icP in the first round ­lhroughout much of the season. 
Against Wostcrn Michigan in .January tlw Irish scornd tvvice in tlw final 3:2b to force the game to overtime. Then 52 seconds into ovPrtinrn Dan Carlson scorNI his sncond consecutive goal for thn win. 
Notr<! Dame's final rncord of 12-9-6 in tlrn CCIIA (14-15-8 overall) dn~w them a first round match-up with Ferris State. who Poulin's first class of recruits ­made some major contributions as well. Captain Ben Simon fin­ished second on the team in scoring, despite nagging injuries. 


And fourth-year players formed the core of a solid Irish defense. Senior defensemen Tyson Fraser. Nathan Borega, and Molina led a penalty killing unit that held opponents to just 41 goals. 
"\Vhen we came in here noth­ing was really expected of us," Bon~ga said. "Maybe keep it close -or win a game here and there. Now we expect to win every game and go farther each year. The coaching staff has changed and the whole team attitude has really improved while we have been here." 
had won both of their regular season games with the Irish. 
But even getting home ice in the first round represented a turnaround for the team. 
"You want to be hot going into the playoffs, and we did this with everyone buying into the team concept, everyone giving out on the ice," said senior defenseman Soan Molina 
After knocking out Ferris State in a tight three-game series at the Joyce Center, the Irish lost to Michigan State in the CCHA semifinals. 
The season saw new leaders emerge for the Irish, and the development of several rookies who will give Notre Dame hock­ey a promising future. But the seniors -head coach Dave 

1he ((i+chen f(oor cor-,er up, +he +oi(e+ (eakr, +he porch ir prone +o nu<Ji+v, +he rhower biter, +he gri((ed cheere rizz(er, +he recyc(ir,g grows-, +he bovr we find are +er• rif>(e, +he rJancing roc((r· and i+ rainr in +he t,arer-,er,+. 
1here wi(( never be another hol\le (ike ... 


Ear+ War#ling+on S+rec+ 
Here's to lnve, and 

here's to ever after. 


WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Belles place second in MIAA tournament 
By KA TIE McVOY Assistant Spores Editor 

Led bv seniors Katie Vales, Becky ·Kremer and Leslie Ortiz, the Saint Mary's tennis team finished a very success­ful season by placing second in the MIAA tournament and tying for a second place over­all finish. 
The Belles came in just behind the Hope College Flying Dutch in the tourna­ment finals. 
Kremer led the team in the tournament winning the No. 4 singles championship and, with teammate Natalie Cook, the No. 2 doubles champi­onship. 
Kremer, vvho was cut from the team as a freshman, played consistent No. 4 singles and No. 2 doubles this year and won the Saint Mary's Senior Athlete Improvement Award. She finished with a record of 6-1 in No. 3 singles, a 11-0 No. 4 singles record, 2­0 in No. 1 doubles record, and 11-4 in No. 2 doubles . 
Joining Kremer was Vales, the No. 1 singles and No. 1 doubles player who was named to the All-MIAA first Team, her third time on an all-conference squad. 
Vales posted an impressive 13-5 No. 1 singles record and marked 10 No. 1 doubles wins against Sl'ven losses. Vales received the Outstanding Senior Athlete Award at tlw athletic banquet. 
Although Ortiz was not able to compete as oflPn as Vales and Kremer, sh(' IPd the tPam in spirit and managed to post good numbers for the Belles. Ortiz won all seven of the dou­bles matches she played in and lost just one match all season in No. 1 singles. 
The Belles finished the regu­lar season with a 17-5 overall record and 5-2 in the confer­ence. They topped off the sea­son with a 9-0 victory over Division I foe Valparaiso. 
Saint !\1ary's beat all of its league competition except for Hope and an upset loss to Calvin. But the Belles got their revenge in the in the confer­ence tournament, beating the Knights to earn a second place finish. 
The Belles started their sea­son off vvith a 7-0 spring break trip. They then returned to Saint Mary's for a 9-1 run, with their only loss coming against top-ranked Hope. After 16 games, the Belles' record stood at 15-1, but then they dropped a match to Calvin, and four of their next five games. The Belles came back with the vic­tory over the Valpo Crusaders to end the regular season on a high note. 

Glory days• They'll pass you by• Glory days• In the wink of o young girl's eye• Glory days• 
:I

• > 
= 
0. 
0 
:::, :::, 
< "' 
0 
?­
0 
I!)
:s.

• 
C 0 
C 

0 "' 
0 
-
n 
0 
3 

.r:-I!) 0 .!? ::J 
C er 
Q
C, 

.c .,..n 
... 

• ::;; 
< 

.c .. C 0 
ro

-.. <
:::, ro
.,
0 

> To 222, "I'll just keep the Pen." 
f 

QI Q 
..0 From the first weekend, second semester. 0 =­

:;: • freshman year to 
"' 
i:, 
C, 

.c 0 "Relive the moment." 
.. 
:, 
0 

> MICHIGAN STATE
Q. 
C, C, 
:i.:: 
• 
C, 
E 

.c Truth or Dare on the Porch < ~ 
0 

0 to graduation . 
0

E QI ~l> ::, C 
... Thanks. 821 
I')

... > 0~ ~ Knott/Alumni Formal 1997 n 
~ ~~ 
u 
0

• 0 ..,e" ~~ < 
Ill 

-
~ io C-0 0 
::J
"' 

:E -0 
0 
Q .0
C, 
C

£ :::, C
... 
::, 
3
... 
'3'

• ­
I!)
0 

0 er 
Ii) 

0 -
Ill C 
-
-
'3' 
I!)
., 
ro 

• "' Ii)
0 
<

"' 
Ii)
-, 
-
C 
er 
I!) I!) 
0 
:, 
>, 

~ • AJOP!A 01 pJoMuo ou11-r>JDW aJo SNOS 10Ao1 JalJ a111..1M • 110 Jal\o UfM Jl!M awoo aJJ0\'11 PIO .= 
...


., 
< 
Q 
Sox/INDIANS GAt\lE .0 Q 
:::, 
• 
n

"My Wife hasn't b 
C
een born Yet.,, Q 
Ill I!) 
I!)

I :ll J illl l lj,._ 
Retlslie < 
[ 



page 32 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, tvfay 19, 2000 
.::.__ 

WOMEN'S SOFTBALL Season continues in NCAA Tournament 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
Sports \Vricer 

i'
'. The Notre Dame softball team, currcntlv ranked No. 17 in the US,\ 'l'oday/National Fastpitrh Coaches Association poll, is advancing to the NCAA regionals 
after a suc­cessful sea­son high­lighted by tlw Big East champi­onship title. 
The Irish, currently 

46-12 over-Myers all and l 5-2 in the Big East, defeated Boston College (5-2} and ConnPcticut (5-0 and 7-0) for l 1 straight wins to earn the conference title. 
In the NCAA regional tourna­ment, the Irish ,viii look to top the season record of 48 set by the 1996 team. Notre Dame is headed to Michigan to take on Illinois-Chicago in the first round this weekend. 
Head Coach Liz Miller won her second conference coach of the vear title. 
,Itinior Jennifer Sharron fin­ished 6-2 in the conference to 1~arn lrnr third straight Big East pitcher-of-the-year title. She struck out 69 batters in 50 innings to lead the Irish. 
Junior Melanie Alkire was also honored as she earned her second straight conference player of the year title with a school record of 59 RBI's in the 2000 sPason. Alkire leads the Irish overall with a batting average of .380. 
Fn!shman Andrea Loman joins the upperclassman \Vith the Big East co-rookie-of-the­year title. Loman leads Notre Dame offensively in the confer­ence with a batting average of 
.400. 
Joining Alkire, Sharron and Loman on the all-Big East first team am Jarrah llvtyers, Lizzy Lemire. Danielle Klayman and Jennifor Kriech. Andria 

I 
Commenc

I 
! i, i 
I,, 
, I I 
Commencement 
Commencement Mass 

I 
ROTC Commissioning 
Law School Ceremony 
MBA/EMBA Diploma Ceremony 
Architecture Graduation 
Order Directly at: http://www.nd.edu/-,olution 
Or Contact: Office of Information Technologies University of Notre Dame Solution• Center/Videotape• 
631.9335 


Videotapes are available! 
Bledsoe was also honored as she \Vas named to the all-Big East second tr-am. 
The Irish went the distance as they topp•~d many records this season. With only four homtffuns in 1998, Notre Dame grabbed 29 in 1999 for a team record and 35 this year to top that. Alkirn hit 1:-J to top her previous record of 10. The Irish also racked up 23 shutouts for a new record to top the 1999 and l 996 team's record of 21. 
The Irish kicked off the year with a second-place finish in University of Nevada's I.as Vegas Tournament. N otrc Dame split its six games in the Morning News Tournament. 
Going into their third tourna­ment, the Irish were finally able to earn a title as they went 4-0 at the State Linc Classic in Tennessee. Notre Dame did not allow a single run as it defoated Tennessee, No.2 Virginia Tech and Kentucky. 
With two victories over San Diego State and one over Lovola Marvmount, the Irish headed into .the Kia Classic for spring break in Fullerton, California with four wins and two losses. 
The Irish then split with Purdue in a home-season open­c r befnn~ heading to the Purdue Tournament where they topped Kent State, Toledo and Purdue while falling to Michigan. 
A win over Eastern Michigan prepped Notre Dame for its first conference games where it fell to Connecticut in game one before heginning a nine-game winning streak including ConnPcticut. Providnnce (2), \i\'estl~rn Michigan. Villanova (2), Butlnr 12) and DePaul. A loss in game two against DePaul ended the streak. 
Notre Dame split with future opponent Boston College and topped Loyola-Chicago before another split against Indiana State. Notre Dame then topped St. John's 7-2 and 5-0 and Seton I I all 6-2 and 5-1 to head into the Big East tournament with a top seed. 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish bounce back from slow start 
By STEVE KEPPEL 
Sports \\?riter 
•This year was quite a ride for the Notre Dame men's lacrosse team. 
Before the season even began, ex1wr.tations were high with the Irish returning four of tlwir live leading scorers from thn 1999 season. Thn team's attack gained experience on the previous year's squad and is Ind by the scoring and play making ability of juniors Tom GlatzPI and David Ulrich. 
"This year we arP a little more balanced offonsively,"Glatzel said. "\Ve havo a number of' guys who can beat you." 
The Irish opened up with an impressive l 0-4 home victory over Penn State. but foll the next week to Penn 10-7. The Irish split their 1wxt four games, putting them at a 3-3 mark midway through the sea­sor1. 
With all the preseason hype, the Irish did not expect to be five hundred at this point in the season and vowed to turn things around. 
"We were extremely disap­pointed to be 3-3 early in the year,"said head coach Kevin Corrigan. "We didn't feel like that was reflective of' our abili­ty." 
Making it a point to return to their winning ways, the Irish came back the next week and defeated Ohio State 13-4 in an important league matchup. After this victory the Irish racked up consecutive wins over Butler, Army, Villanova, Fairfield, and Harvard, their first six-game ,vin streak since 1996. They finished the season 
CATCH MAY MADNESS @CAMPUSVIBE~ 
U \he gu\ Ro~K 
tr!m \ong time. K,ng 
Hen,~ Ro\\lns ...~ Rollins Band 
May 22nd • bive @The G I ,
aaxy Theatre 
Whiskey swillin' alt-psycho country from Hank W~i\r~,a~m==S·~"'''~;:=:::::::::~
.. 

.Check out our Hank Ill web-cast premiering May 15th!! 
Register to WIN abrand new, shiny,acoustic guitar autographed by hillbilly country-punk•road-dog Hank Williams Ill. 

Send CVTV your videos! For more info, e-mail: 

CAMPUSVIBE.COM submissions@campusvibe.com 

The Irish !axers are in the midst of a surprising run through the NCAA Championships, after defeating the No. 5 Loyola 
Greyhounds 15-13. 
ranked No. l 3 in the country. 

"In thf~ beginning of the sea­son we had a couple of tough losses and we lost a little bit of our confidence,"said Glatzel, the team's leading scorer. "Since Hofstra [the team's last loss] we have really been play­ing well and we have been playing as a team. \Ve feel that we can beat whoever we're paired up against." 
This year's trip to the NCM Tournament marks the eighth time have been there in the past nine years. The Irish were 1-7 in their previous eight tour­nament appearances, but used the momentum from their last six victories to advance into tlw second round. 
In the first round, the Irish tallied a 15-l 3 win over a tough Loyola team that beat the Irish earlier in the season. 
Glatzel \Vas named National Player or tlw Week f'or his four goals and three assists against Loyola. 
"We have got a young t1iam that has diweloped very well over the course of the year."Corrigan said. "After being down at the beginning of the season I can't help but be pleased that WP came back and won six in a row and finished up as strongly as we did." 
Notre Dame plays No. 4 Johns Ilopkins Sunday for the right to advance to tlw tourna­ment smnilinals. 

• --­
-

Friday, May 19, 2000 page 33
The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Belles slide in Roeder's final season with 4-22 record 
By KATIE McVOY 
As5istant Spores Editor 
Although the Saint Mary's basketball team did not say goodbye to any senior$ this year, it bid farewell tu head coach Dave Hoeder, who resigned at the end of the sea­son aftnr four years of low scores and high loss totals. 
The team faced another dif­ficult season in 1999-2000, finishing eighth in the MIAA \Vith a 4-22 record. 
In tho l\·1lAA tournament, Saint Mary's managed to beat No. 9 Oliv<>t College in the l'irst round. but lust to top­seeded Hope College in the second. 
The young Belles team faced 

..For Saint Marys basketball history to change, we need a full-time coach and a full-time program." 
Lynn Kachmarik 
athletic director 

s,weral disappointing losses due to miscommunication and lack of preparation. 
Tho Belles came back at season's end to finish off with a big win over Adrian College. The season-!rnding victory allowed the Belles to host the first game of the MIAA tour­nament. 
The Belles had to face off 
against the Flying Dutch of Hope College in the second round, and were less success­ful against the better-pre­pared team. 
They dropped the game, and the season ended. 
The Belles will be looking for improvement next year, especially with a new coach. 
"For Saint Mary's basketball history to change, we need a full-time coach and a full-time program," said athletic direc­tor Lynn Kachmarik. "We may not be able to find someone this year, but down the road we want a full time coach." 
Saint Mary's is currently looking for a new head coach to help turn around the pro­gram after four seasons laden with losses. 

VOLLEYBALL 

Irish netters serve up success with conference sweep 
won it three times. 
"Our theme was to take the sea­son in small steps," she said. "We tried to go one game at a time. Our team was young and we did not want the overall picture to be overwhelming." 
With five 1998 starters return­ing, the Irish had their sights set high heading into the season. 
There were 
still some ques­


By MATT OLIVA 
Sports Writer 
Entering the 1999 season, the Irish had five returning starters and high expectations as they prepared to repeat their long­time Big East success and advance deep into the NCM tour­nament. 
Instead of letting 
all the success and "We were not successful tion marks, especially with
recognition go to in terms ofwins and 

the departure

their heads, they 
losses but many players of Lindsey
went out to prove that they were up excelled on a personal Treadwell, but they were
to the challenge. level . ., 
quickly erasNI

The Irish when thestormed through 
Mary Leffers squad hit the
the competition en floor.
route to a fourth captain 
undefeated confer­ence season, post­ing an impressive 11-0 mark in the conference and clinching the top seed fpr the Big East tourna­ment. 
The Irish achieved their success by combining great individual effort with a team effort. 
Senior captain Mary Leffers and junior Christi Girton both earned Big East Player of the Week hon­ors during the season. Leffers 
CG"iJJUlt.t&o.,twM i-t<9w0Jtd it~ Ce.cut> {9~ .2.000 J ll.Mlta. Cle.tJ~ OG~ £tchw~ Carn.iMe Fttapa,~ i--{,(Ul,th.eJL UGgM:£~tit 0JuaPP 0,~~ <)lt~M~ Ca,~~ 'Yn~Mt cntcC1eeen. J ~ 'lltcCtltdee ~ 'htc'mo.Jwn. ~m~ ~Q~t £~a.be.th ~mp~ 8ta.ci£. Qu.p{pell. 8~8mith 'VUJUln., 8u. 8M.Ml}n, 8u.cf.daJr.th i<a.Wrui ~en,£~ (l!ru.J' cr-1wlU\,tGn, ~ ~u.fue i.Ube,th '\I<ll3~ Qwec.e,a, Weidt J uii.ti WWllce <)lt<lJul\a, iiB~tu~Ja, J ~B~('n19tir.t Oa.tn.t iru» 8clwt9e)  

Leffers was 

key for the Irish squad. The senior middle blocker set conference records for blocking and hitting percentage. 
Ranked fifth nationally in blocks per game, Leffers became the 10th player in Irish history to reach the 1,000 kill mark. She also set a school record in hitting percentage with a .303 average. 
"One thing that was important was that many of our young play­ers got to see playing time," said Leffers. "This will benefit the pro­gram. We were not successful in terms of wins and losses but many players excelled on a per­sonal level." 
The Irish had four players named to the Big East all-confer­ence team. Junior setter Denise Boylan joined Leffers with first­team recognition, while Girton and sophomore Kristy Kreher were both named to the second team. 
After dropping the Big East final match to Georgetown, Notre Dame received an at-large bid iri the West regional, where they lost to Ohio State in four grueling games, 13-15, 15-10, 16-14, and 15-7. With the elimination from the tournament. the Irish finished their season with a 20-9 record. 
"When I came here we, were ranked sixth in the country," Leffers said. "Obviously \\IC did not go out as well, but I think our best years haven't even come. We have· been through some ups and downs but the team is growing. The recruits coming in are sup­
•
posed to be amazing which should help the program take oIT. Coach [Debra] Brown is trying to find the right group of players that fit the mold to do so. Mayb,~ these next players will be the ones." 
page 34 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, May 19, 2000 

GOLF 

Irish succeed in fall, face 
setbacks in spring season 
By KEVIN BERCHOU Sports Writer 
Spring is the best time of the year for most golfers. After a long winter's layoff, their games begin to take shape as the world around them comes back to life. Unfortunately for the members of Notre Dame golf team, tlrn oppo­site was true: The temperatures soared as their games fell apart. 
"I wish I knew what happened," head coach George Thomas said. "We lost our focus and confidence. It was very disappointing. It was really a collapse, like the stock market." 
In stock market terms, Notre Dame suffered a Great Depression. After a brilliant autumn, perhaps the best ever for a Notre Dame squad, the Irish fell precipitously, squandering any chance they had of making the NCAAs. 
Thomas was pleasantly sur­prised with his troops' play as the fall season began. The Irish suc­ceeded in blending a fine group of talented veterans with a group of younger players looking to break through, rocking the college golf world by winning the 24-team Air Force Invitational. 
Led by senior captain Todd Veron. and sophomore star Steve Hatay, Notre Dame went on to claim t,No more titles. A late rally secured a championship at the Legm1ds of Indiana Intercollegiate, while a dominating effort meant a win at the prestigious Louisville Intercollegiate. 

"We really played well," Thomas said. "I though the guys were out­standing." 
Success was fleeting, however. Just as quickly as the Irish had risen to 23rd in the national rank­in gs they plummeted back to earth. 
The change in play was inexplic­able. A baffled Thomas was con­founded by his team's poor spring play, which remains for him an enigma. 
"It's a real puzzle for me," he admitted." I dwelled on it for a while, but I still don't know where we lost it." 
The Irish stumbled to a seventh place finish at the Akron Invite, a tournament they well could have won, before staggering to 13th at the Ohio State Intercolll~giate. 
Thomas was, however, pleased with the play of his senior captain Vernon. 
"Todd played admirably; he was about the only guy who was con­sistent," Thomas noted. 
Despite the awful spring, the Irish hoped to recover as they readied to play in the prestigious Big East Championships at home on the brand new Warren Golf Course, a facility that drew rave reviews from all participants. Those hopes were quashed as the Irish disappointed with a third place finish, ruining any chance they had of qualifying for the 
NCAA championships. 

Instead of springing ahead, Notre Dame fell back. 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
Swimmers rally in Big East finale 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Sports Writer 
When the Notre Dame men's swimming and diving team class of 2000 began their careers as freshmen, the possibility of a two-time second place finish at the Big East Swimming and Diving championships was nothing more than a dream. 
But through a talented and dedicated core of men, the dream began to become a rnality -one that was real­ized this February at the Big East championships. 
"The senior class has been our catalyst here as they have been all year," head coach Tim Welsh said. "We were here as a team finishing 

in second place largely through their vision, dream, and commitment to swim­ming hard and training hard." · 
Senior Ray Fitzpatrick was arguably the standout of the group, capturing a Big East title in the 200 freestyle and breaking his own University record. Fitzpatrick also fueled the 200-medley relay of Brian Skorney, Michael Koss, Brendan Lechner and himself to a second place fin­ish. The senior was also a tnf!mber of the 800 frnestyle relay including Jonathan Pierce, Austin Anderson and Matthew Grunewald. 
Senior diver Herb Huesman also made a strong mark on the program, returning after 
c-sc 
CENTER FOR 

SOCIAL THAN/( YOU!!! 
CONCERNS 

NELLIE WILUAMSThe Observer Trailing Rutgers for most of the tournament, Notre Dame ended its season with a second place Big East finish. 
a year-long hiatus due to surgery. Huesman, who returned to the program after the removal of a tumor from his lung, rallied to notch a fourth-place finish in the three-meter competition after a top-eight finish in tlw 01rn­meter competition. 
The team pulled out a sec­ond place finish in the final days of com petition after chasing Rutgers on the first day of compPtition and hold­ing a narrow lead for the rnst of the meet. 
"We have a lot of pride and we worked hard," said team co-captain Sean Casey. "We 
Community 

l
1 

were pleased with our per­f'orm ance and stepped up when we needed to. When it got down to it, there was no way we were going to let anyone pass us on thn last day." 
Senior Tony Fonseca agrned.. 
"We trained too hard to l(!t teams come back and beat us." he said. "Swimming at Notre Dame !"or four years has been the bost nxperi•'nce of my lifo and this win only added to that" 
Colleen ivlcCarthy con­tributed to this article. 
-····-=----·1 

To all the students who are giving their summer to service-learning. Your dedication to compassion and social justice is evident. We hope the relationships you will form with members of your daycamps, shools, AIDS programs, shelters, children's homes, outreach centers, clinics, women's care programs and hospitals, etc., will be valuable life experiences. 
Summer Service Projects -HispanidAfrican-American Leadership Intern Program -ACCJON -lntemational Summer Service Leaming Program -National Youth Sports Program 
·. t 
:: J 
i, !
, 
j, 
I, 
'· 

Rosalind Alexander Jonathan Alvarez Ingrid Anderson Meghan Anderson Therese Anderson James Andry Luke Archibald AdamAroian Sarah Barmeier Matt Barrett Eric Barroso Laura Bastedo Catherine Bateson Sarah Baum John Beltramo Katheryn Bilodeau Ellen Block Ellen Blocker Bridie Sullivan Jermaine Brown Wendy Brueggeman Elizabeth Buescher 
Carolyn Buller Rachel Bundick Katherine Burnett Krista Busch Brendon Cahill Becky Camillus Rob Capone Steve Case Sean Caufield Nitin Chandra Jessica Chmell Rachel Clark 

Colleen Clarke Katie Coleman Frances Contreras Emily Contreras Kelly Cooper Jamie Cox James Cummings Emily Daley Jessica Dalsing Andrew DeBerry Mark DeMott Nathaniel DeNicola Nikki DePersis Kristine Devany Aubree Dill Meghan Diperna Emily Disque Chenell Donadee Mark Donahey Liz Donnell-Fink Amanda Dovidio Kelly Dries Tim Fallon Kathy Fanning Marissa Farrone Brian Fellner Michelle Ferfolia Tim Ferrell 
Theresa Ferry Matt Feucht Carrie Fitzgerald Ann Fitzgibbons Dan Flynn Dan Frailey 
Anne Gallagher John Lenzo Jay Newman Morgan Russell Tony Wagner Russ Giancola Joe Lillis Julia Noone Shanaree Sailor Vern Walker Michiko Gibson Libby Lauer Kristin Nowak Jessica Salinas Matt Walsh Megan Glah Tim Lulich Chris Nygren Cherise Sanchez-Yund Adam Weaver 
SSP Abigail Gottschalk Tony Lusvardi Kristina O'Neill Amy Schlatterbeck Beth Webber Jessica Gray Melissa Lydigsen Erin Olson Jessica Schmidt Rachel Weiler Tim Greene Lauren Lyons Jane Ong Jacqueline Schmidt Carin Weingarten Megan Griffin James Madden Mark Panza Sara Schnieders Mathew Werger Meghan Gurgol Joe Madia Patricia Parker Paul Schofield Kelly West Bryan Haffey Rachel Mahoney Marcela Parodi Katie Schuster Patrick White 
LIP Kortny Hall Jaclyn Marroquin Katrina Paulson Matt Sheehan Amanda White Emily Haranin Sara Monica Mata Allison Pedine Mari Shiraishi Katelin Wilcox Katherine Harcourt Karina Mayorga Stephen Pfeiffer Jen Siirola Tamra Williams Tom Hayes Chrissy Mazurkiewicz Tom Pierce Rachel Soltis Laura Sue Wolfe 
,;,ii"'

Adrienne Haynes Andy McBride Anthony John Polcari Anne Marie Spillner Nancy Wong Amy Heckel Mike McCabe Peter Prina Shannon Stacy Saran Zalud 
ACC[•NCharles Hedman Kalie McDonough Mari Pyle Jim Starman Brian Zant 
Kelly Hoene Michael McGarry Paul Quinlan Brian Starr Andrew Zengel 
Karen Hogan Patrick McGreevy Katherine Rakowski Judson Strauch 
Lauren Hoge! Mary McLaughlin John Randles Jeff Stuffings 
Abby Holtz Luke Mclaurin Janelle Reklau Lauren Suarez 
Melissa Hostetler Lisa McManus Becky Rey Therese Svarovsky 
Chris Howald Kevin McManus Karli Richards Alexandra Swiacki 
ISSLP

John Hudek Courtney Mercer Chris Ripple Kellie Swift 
Shannon Hyduk Colleen Moak Susan Roberts Lara Szymula 
Jamie Joehl Allison Moariarty Stephen Robey Cheryl Tansk 
James Keller Shauna Morin Heriberto Rodriguez Emily Teeter 
Suzanne Kellman Sam Murillo Michelle Roeser Amber Thill 
Rachel Kelly Katie Mylan Kim Rollings Stephen Torchen 
Jennifer King Melisa Nakahodo Liddy Romero Alison Tullis 
Kristin King Jessica Nance Camille Romero Eric Unrine 
h-.,d

Ryan King Joseph Napolitano Jonathan Rosemeyer Mike Valle 
Sandra King Keli Ndukwe Rachael Rathrauff Julie Van Weelden 
Malia Lam Sarah Nedeau Patrick Ruder James Vavricek 
HAVE A TERRIFIC SUMMER!! 
! ' :i , 


~,
. ,, ' 
! 
Friday, May 19, 2000 

The Observer . SPORTS page 35 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish surprise Louderback with strong performances 
By KEVIN BERCHOU 
Sporn Wriri.:r 
Ilt~ading into the 1999-2000 campaign, Coach Jay LoudPr­back thought he was being realis­tic with his low expectations for the l\;otre Dame women's tPnnis tmun. 
Losing many key players to graduation and !'acing a tough sclrndule. I,oudcrback was cer­tain that the Irish had a tough season aimad of them. Louderback will be the first to happily admit lrn was vvTong. 
"\\'n played much better than I 

Great rates, great service -if only I could still be a member of the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union 
after graduation ... 

tir ~ 
mall 


219-239-661 l 800-522-6611 

Badin says best wishes ~o their bullfrogs... 
Cheryl Asci Loubel Cruz Judy Defrieze 
Cynthia Garcia Jalaima Graham Krista Guziec Chris Hahn Jenny Heft Erin Keppel Laura Martinez Lizz Mattingly Wendy Pasillas 
· Maria Perez Cla,udia Quinonez Christina Romero Erin Stauffer 
as they n,ove on to bigger ponds! Congratulations Class of 2000! 

~~~~~~~~~~ 


thought coming in," hP admitted. 
"\V,~ definitclv overachieved." Thn only problem with improved play is the heightened Pxpccta­tions that accompany it. \Vlrnrnas Loudorback in it i a I I y expected littlP f'ror1 his team, ho no\v fools it has a great shot to advance deep into the NCAA tournament. 


Duhhh. But of course you can! 
And their web page, ndfcu.org, 
makes it super easy with 24 hour 
free home banking. Plus no 
matter where you are, checking is 
always free! 
t\lOTRE DAME 
FEDERALCRB>ITUNION For People. Not For Profit 
INDEPENDENT OF THE UNMRSITY 



Ranked in the 13th spot, the Irish came out strong in the first two rounds of' the NCAAs, down­ing UIC and South Carolina. The Irish swept the No. 20 Gamecocks in singles and captured a No. 3 doubles win to advance to the third round of the tournament this weekend. Notre Dame's third-round berth at Pepperdine University marks the first time the Irish have made it this far since 199(>. 
"I think we really have a shot at making a run," said Louderback. 
Louderback's confidence can be attributed to the fact that his players have performed at a high level all season long. 
Led by junior All-American Michelle Dasso, the women surged from the start of the sea~ son, trouncing highly ranked foes like William and Mary and Maryland, en route to a national ranking of 14. 
Dasso overcame a fall shoulder injury to regain her All-American form, while sophomorn Becky Varnum stepped up to play No. 2 singles. 
"I was happy with a lot of the girls, they all stepped up," said Louderback. Senior r,aptain Kelly Zalinksi also made big contribu­tions, becoming the school's career singles 'Wins leader in the 
SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Belles rewrite history with record season 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Sports Writer 
Breaking out of' history is sometimes the biggest challenge ofall. 
For the Saint Mary's swimming and diving team, their history was little to be proud of. No squad had topped .500 in the past decade, teams had persis­tent low finishes in the MIAA championships, and most of the individual records were etched into the books more than six years ago. 
Add in an inconsistent coach­ing history, and the 1999-2000 squad had its work cut out for them. 
But changes, including a squad of talented freshmen, the addi­tion of a diving squad, and a new first-year coach changed what was once a daunting past into a suddenly sparkling future. 
It was something that was dilli­cult not to notice. 
N(>tching victories over University of Chicago and Olivet College during the regular sea­son, and marginal losses to Albion. Calvin and Alma College, Saint Mary's established it5elf as process. 

After playing so well through­out the season, the Irish entered Big East tournament play the favorite, only to be blown away by the Hurricanes of Miami in the final, a squad they had van­quislmd a week earlier. 
"It was disappointing not to win there," Louderback said. "But we gav1~ it a good run. It's a tough place to play." 
As his team looks for an NCAA championship, Louderback is confident of Notre Dame's abili­ties. 
"We've had good practices, and I think we're focused and ready to make a run," he said. 
a team no longer to be take11 lightly in the MIAA. 
That realization hit home for many of the teams during the conference Swimming and Diving Championships at Rolfs Aquatic Center February 10-12, where the Belles found them­selves in a hotly contested fight for fourth place. 
"The statement that we made was that we're a talented, hard­working svvim team that is really just in its beginning stages," head coach Gretchen Hildebrandt said. "With such a strong beginning, and such as strong base of tal­ented swimmers, we can go so far with that. We have such a promising future." 
Beyond simply improving in the MIAA, however, the Belles proved that this year's squad that would rewrite Saint Mary's history, etching sevPn new records in the school's record board. 
Senior co-captain Michelle Samreta closed out hPr collogiate career setting her fourth new mark in the 100-yard breastroke, while junior Colleen Sullivan, the 1999-2000 Most Valuable Svvimmer, set a new school mark both in the SO freestyle and the 100 freestvle. Prnshman Lauren Smith also set a new school record in the 200 breastroke. 
The 400 medley relay team of freshman Lane Herrington. sophomore Alicia Lesneskie, sophomore Danielle Clayton and senior Michelle Samreta re-set their own record from earlier in the season. 
Entering next year with a strong base of returning swim­mers and a solid core of fresh­man recruits, the future contin­ues to look bright. f~ven in the absence ofgraduating seniors. 
Samreta, a co-captain for the past three years and one of the hallmarks of the team for the past four years, will he the lone graduating senior on the squad. 
"\,Vords can't really explain tho hole that she'll leave," Hildebrandt said. "She has left her spirit and enthusiasm for the program behind, and a lot of the freshmen, sophomores, and juniors caught on. She'll still be living through what she's made out ofthe team." 
But no matter what. the team's biggest lesson in l 999-2000 was that sometimes, rm,Tiling history isn't as hard as it looks. 
"There really isn't any limit," Hildebrandt said. "With one year under my belt. I have such posi­tive feelings from this year. I'm so excited about what next year is going to bring." 

page 36 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, May 19, 2000 


\ i 
I \ 
r , \ 
I\ 
ii ll 
I 
I 
I I 
I I 
I 
'
I 
I 
~ 
' 
' 
I I 
,. h 
I• 
l!
,, 
) 
\1
r,
,. 
i 
1, 
I,
,, 
i,, I, 
1\' 
)\ 
,· 
I 
I I 
1l 
II
,, 
I ; I 
~ 
I 
I )
' ' 
il 
: ~ 
:~ 
lI• I
' 
' 
I 
I1) ! 
~ J 
v ~ 
,,', . 
' 
)i I I 
), 
r 
I, 
I 
I 
I 
I 
i I 
r 

WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Tarheels edge Irish again in Women's College Cup 

By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 

Under first-year head roach Handy Waldrum, the Notre Dame women's soccer team returiwd to the NCAA Women's College Cup and advanced to the finals for the first time sine,~ 1996 before falling to North Carolina, 2­0. 
The loss to North Carolina closed out the careers of some of the best women ever to don the Blue and Gold, Defender Jen Grubb became the first four-year first team All-Big East player in the his­tory of the conference. She was also named a third team All-American by National Soccer Coaclrns Association 
I, of America. She is the second Irish player ever to be named an All-American four times. Senior forward Jenny Streiffer was also named to the first team All-Big East team and a third-team All­American. Streiff'er also became the second women to score 70 goals and 70 assists in her career. Only national team star Mia Ha.mm has accomplished this feat before. Joining Streiffer on the Big East first team was senior Jenny Heft who set a new Irish record with 80 goals in her career. Senior LaKeysia Beene stood strong in the net for the Irish with a 1.00 goals against average and 7 1/2 shutouts. Beene was named to the second team All-Big East. Senior defended Kara Brown was also named to 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
The 2000 fencing team will be remembered for its nearlv incredible comeback on the last two days of com­petition at the 2000 NCAA Fencing Championships only to fall three points short and finish second for the fifth consecutive year. 
After the women's com­petition on the first two days of the Championships, the Irish stood in fourth and trailed eventual champion Penn State by 26 points. A combination of nerves and inexperience contributed to Notre Dame's slow start. or the six women competing in the Championships. five of them Wf\rt> fencing f'or the title for the first time. Only senior ~1agda Krol had pre­viously chased a champi­onship l'or the Irish. 
Krol did not disappoint as shn finished fifth and became the fourth Irish woman to earn All­American honors four times. None of the other women finished higher than ninth. 
Freshman foilist Liza Boutsikaris was named an honorable mPntion All­American for her 12th­place finish. The freshman 

epceists, Anna Carnick and Meagan Call. took home a pair of honorable mention All-American honors with ninth-and 12th-place fin­ishes respectively. 
Freshman sabrewoman Natalia Mazur finished 10th to win honorable mention All-American honors as well. Junior sabre captain Carianne McCullough l'in­ish ed 19th in her first Champitmships. 
vVhen the men took the strip on Saturday, it appeared that Penn State had already wrapped up its sixth-straight champi­onship. And while th(\ Nittany Lions did end up taking home the crown, it was not before they received a scare and a sound beating at the hands of the Irish. 
Behind the taltints of three freshman, two sopho­mores and a junior, the Irish quickly closed the gap. Paced by freshman Ozren Debic and sophomore Gabor Szelle. who each won 20 bouts. the men roared back into second place. 
\\'hilc the d,11idt to Penn State proved to be too great to overcome, the men did dt•feat the Nittany Lions in nine of the 12 head-to-lwad bouts. 
·while the foil team split 
its four bouts against Penn State, the epen team won three out of the four. 
The sabre squad soundly defeated Penn State 4-0. The Irish sabre squad fin­ished with 37 wins as junior 
. '· Andrzcj Bednarksi won 17 l bouts to go with Szelle's 20. The 37 wins easily made the Irish the best sabre team in the country. 
Szelle also captured Notre Dame's first individual title 

~...•.·.
since 1998 as he defeated '-' 
.'.
<,;-'
Jakub Krochmalski or Wayne State to win the 
i,.
sabre title. Bednarksi fin­islrnd as a second team All­~' Amcrican. .•
·t.(:;·,.'1!_.·
..
Debic's bid to become the Sl~cond Irish individual ?:~.:__{: champion at the tourna­ment fell just short as he lost in the foil finals to Stanford's Felix Reichling. Fellow freshman foilist Forest vValton finished 14th in the Championships with 14 wins. · 

In epee, f'nishman Jan Viviani finished third \vith a 15-12 win against Doran Levit in the consolation round. Viviani had previ­ously lost to eventual cham­pion Alex Hoyblat 7-6 in 
,,...
overtime in the semifinals. 
In his second trip to the Championships. sophomore Brian Casas won just nine bouts. 


the ser.ond team All-Big East. 
The seniors opened the season with a 3-2 heart­breaking double ovt>rtime loss to North 
Carolina vvhen Meredith Florance scored for the Tar Heels in the 114th minute. 
After the loss to the Tar Heels the Irish responded with a dominating 4-1 win over the Duke Blue Devils. The Irish next rolled to three-straight wins before falling to Southern Methodist. 1-0. 
Regrouping from the disap­pointing loss to SMU, the Irish finished the year win­ning 11 of their last 12. Their only loss was a 4-2 defeat at the hands of No. 1 Santa Clara on the Broncos' home turf. 
The Irish cruised through the Big East tournament def'oating Miami and Seton 5-0 in the quarter-and semi­finals. In the finals, the Irish bu iIt a 3 -1 Iead on tlrn Connecticut Huskies and held on despite blustery con­ditions to win 4-2. The victo­ry gave the Irish their fifth straight Big East Confornnce Championship. 
The Irish grounded the Dayton Flyers in the first round of the NCAA tourna­ment, 5-1. In the second round, the Irish faced a stiff challenge from the Stanford Cardinal. After 81 scoreless minutes, sophomore Mia Sarkesian broke the tie when she fired a failed Cardinal attempt dear into the upper right corner of the net. 
Just minutes later, howev­er, Honnic Fair, one of' the best players in the country. was awarded a penalty kick 
for the Cardinal. Fair's kick, however, hit both goalposts before bouncing away from the net. The Irish dcfonsP held on in the final minutes to preserve the 1-0 win. 
The Irish 1rnxt traveled to Lincoln. Neb., to fac11 the Cornhuskers -a team Notre Dame had eliminatPd from the NCAA tournament Pach of the previous tvvo y<'ars. The Irish started quickly as Streiffer scornd just <JO sec­onds into the ganw to giv,i Notre Dam c a l -0 I1\ ad . Nebraska answered the goal 16 minutes later to knot the game at 1. 


After the opening offonsivr) • burst both defonsns sr~ttled ~
I
.··~
d own an d t he ga m () remained scorel<>ss f'or the next 1 hour and 32 minulf~s of game tim1!. Af'tt\r four overtimes without a goal, Urn game went to a shoot-out. Junior defendnr K,dly Lindsey s1:ored the converted sixth Irish penalty kick and Beene stopp1~d Nebraska's sixth attempt to give the Irish a 4-3 win in penalty kicks. The game was the longest in NCAA tournament history an~! sent the Irish back to the vVonrnn's C:ollngn Cup for the first time since 1997. 


The Irish got their reveng1\ against the Broncos in the semifinals as freshman Ali Lovelace came off the bench to score the only goal of thn game. The 1-0 loss marked the first time the Broncos had been shut out al! season. 
In the finals. the Irish man­aged just two shots on goal as Florance once again scored the gaml~ winner for the Tar Heels. 
FENCING 

Comeback falls three points short in NCAA Championships 
Friday, May 19, 2000 page 37
The Observer . SPORTS 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Shay, Klemmer pace Irish in run for NCAA championship 
By BRIAN BURKE and 
KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Spores Writers 
The Notre Dame men-'s and women's track and field teams cnterNI the outdoor season with considerable talnnt and high expectations. They l'illed out those <!Xpectations with a confcr­cnce-lmtding season and nation­al qualifying pnrformanccs. 
The ability of the Irish was evi­dent in the first week when the men's and women's squads split up to compete at the Arizona State Invitational and Stanford Invitational. Between the two meets. seven Notre Dame men and onn woman qualified tiw tho NCAA Championships. Among thos1! were Hyan Shay, who qualif'icd automatically in the I0,000 meters and Phil Mishka in the 800 meters for tho men, and Alison Klemmer in the 10,000 for the women. 
The follO\-ving week. in a home scoring meet the men's 4 x 100­meter relay team of Chris Cochran Travis Davey, Tom Gilbort and Marshaun \Vest broke tlw school record with a time of 40.22 snconds. The women also set several school records, including Jamie Volkmer who JJrokP school records in both tlrn pole vault and triple jump. 
After a week off due to harsh weather, the Fighting Irish trav­eled to Walnut, Calif'. for the prestigious Mt. SAC relays. 
The top performance for Notre Dame once again had to be Shay, who broke an 11-year school record in the 10,000 and qualified for tho Olympic Trials in the process. Shay also is ranked as tht~ second best run­ner nationally in the 10,000, but his Olympic Trials qualifying mark has changed his training plans slightly. 

"Now I have to kind of train through nationals and focus on peaking at the Olympic Trials," Shay said. "There are a handful or collegiate runners who will be running in the trials, so they'll be going through the same thing." 
The men's squad stormed to its first-ever Big East Outdoors Championships after being the runners-up a year ago and at this season's indoor title meet. The women, meanwhile, took third place at the Big East Outdoors Championships for the second year in a row. 
"That was probably the single achievement that I've been most proud of in my four years," mid­dle-distance runner Mishka said. "We talk about that [as a goal] every day at practice, after warmups and at meets. We're always focused on winning the Big East." 
Notre Dame coaches Joe Piane, Tim Connelly, John Millar and Scott Winsor earned Big East Outdoor Staff of the Year for their team's performances. 
"That was a lot of fun," Pianc said. "The seniors really were committed. They dedicated everything to that. \,Ve had been knocking on the door of the Big East for years. By winning by 53 points, I think we kicked down the door." 
Among the top performers were the men's 4 x 100-meter relay team which finished first and set a Big East meet record. Senior high jumper Jennifer Engelhardt also set a Big East meet record in claiming her third Big East title, with a mark of 5 feet 11 inches. The jump earned her a provisional qualifi­cation for the NCAA Championships. 
Seniors Mishka and Tim Kober rank among the top 10 800 run­ners in the nation, heading into the final weeknnd of NCAA qual­ifications. Long jumper West, distance runner Alison Klemmer, 400-metcr runner Liz Grow and men's steeplechase runner Luke \Vatson, long jumper Tameisha King, high jumper Engelhardt, Shay and Marc Striowski in the 10,000, Antonio Arce in the 5,000-meter run, and Mishka and Kober in the 800 have all met provisional or automatic qualifying stan­dards for the national meet. 
Indoors, the Irish qualified four athletes for nationals in the distance medley relay. Cochran, Kober. Mishka and Watson placed sixth in the champi­onships for All-American status. During the indoor season, they 
also  set a school  record  of  
9:38.15.  
At  the  Big  East  Indoors  

Championships, the men took second to Georgetown while the women placed sixth. 


CONGRATULATIONS 
LONDON PROGRAM STUDENTS 
in the 
Class of 2000 
page 38 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, May 19, 2000 
FOOTBALL 

Trouble on, off field leads to disappointing finish 
The upcoming weeks didn't
. Notre Dame 

bode as vvell for the Irish.ends season Heartbreaking road lossps to 
Michigan and Purdue snnt
winless on road 

Notre Dame into a downward 
spiral. By BRIAN KESSLER The Irish traveled to the Big Assisr;1nt Spores Editor !louse and took a 22-19 lead 
over th e No . 7 \Vo Iv<' r i n e s 
Aftt~r claiming National with just over four minutes Championships in 1977 and remaining. Quart.Prback l 9S8 under third-year head Jarious Jackson hit tight-nnd coarlH•s, Pxpectations WPni Jaban Holloway for a 20-yard high for tlw ·99 Notrt\ Dame touchdown pas-; on fourth l'ootbaII tPam. dmvn and tlwn comwcted with 
TIH· Irish lookPd to close out Bo bby Br o w n f'o r Urn two ­t}w I 9 0 0 s on a h ig h n o 1e , point convnrsion. But 15-yard reaffirming their claim as the excPssive celebration and team of the century. lluwever, late-hit penalties allowed a banged-up squad playing Michigan to drive down the tlrn third-toughest schedule in field for the go-ahead touch­
the country  down. The Irish  
led to an up-and­down sea­son that  "It's disappointing because once again we beat ourselves. We 're  tried to answer and reached the \Volverine 11­yard line. only  
resulted in an 0-5 road record and a 5-7 over­ right there ready to put the ball in and we didn ·c capitalize ...  to see time run out. "It was a bat­tle," head coach  
all mark  - Hob Davie said  
the school's first seven loss season  Tony Fisher Irish running back  following the game. "Two teams battled  
since 1963.  hard. One team  

Also. off the field problems didn't play extremely smart that led to player suspensions and that team didn't win." and the NCAA 's decision to A similar scenario played put Notre Dame on probation itself out a wePk later in \,Vest combined to make '99 a sea­Lafayette, Ind. The Irish son to forget. jumped out to a 10-0 lead in 
"I wish I could tell you what the first quarter, but Drew went wrong this season," Brees and the Boilermakers senior cornerback Deveron battled back to takf' a 22-16 Harper said follovving the lead in the third quarter. They Boston College game. "This led 28-23 in the fourth, but a isn't the way I wanted to go solid punt return by freshman out." Julius Jones had Notre Dame 
However, the Irish started knocking on the door. The off on the right foot with a 48-Irish quickly moved the ball 1 3 victory over tlrn Kansas down to the 9-yard line with .Jayhawks in the Eddie just over a minute remaining. Hobinson Classic. Sophomore but clock management once Tony Fisher rushed for 111 again led to th11ir downfall. A yards in his first career start busted play on third down at tailback and Notre Dame resulted in a nine-yard loss reeled off 28 unanswered and the Irish weren't able to points to pull away. set up for another play before 


time expired. 
"It's disappointing because once again Wfl beat our­selves," Tony Fisher said after the game. "We'rn right there ready to put the ball in and we didn't capitalize." 
A dejected Notre Dame returned home only to see Michigan State run away with a 23-13 victory that dropped the Irish to 1-3 on the season. 
"'\Ne're a young team with a tough schedule," Davie said fo 11 cnv ing the game. "We're sitting here at 1-3. It's a reali­ty. You keep plugging along and try to see the light and the end of the tunnel and try to win some games." 
The ensuing bye week and home scht>dule would turn out to be just what the doctor Ord1irnd. Notre Dame bounced back with thrilling come-l'rom­b nh ind victories against Oklahoma and rival USC and also rt~corded wins over Navy and Arizona State. Tlw Irish trailed tlw undefoat<'d Sooners :H)-14 early in the third quar­ter, but rackfld up 5(>6 yards of offensn and sron\d thrP1) touchdowns in under I:! min­uttis to pull out tlw win. 
"This was a hugP win for tis because of the vvav w1i won," Davin said after ·uw gamP. .. \\'P-pIayed a good fo o tb a 11 team and vve fought through a situation we hav!' lwPn in for thrPI' Wl'<'ks anci we wo11." 
A we P k Iau~ r , t lw Ir is h scorched the Sun Devils 48-17 to ,wc!n tlwir record at 3-3. 
The Irish then hostPd the Trojans and overcame a 24-3 third-quarter deficit to pro­duce the greatest comeback in Notre Dame Stadium history. 
The Midshipmen were the next team to fall victim to the soaring Irish. Freshman tail­back Jones racked up 146 yards rushing and Notre Dame rushed for 324 yards as a 
team en route to a 28-24 vit:­tory. The Irish once again trailed in the fourth quarter. but a 16-yard touchdown pass from Jackson to Jay Johnson sealed thP-win with 36 sec­onds left. 
The upbf-Hlt Irish then trav­eled to Tennesse<) to take on the defending national cham­pions. Notre Dame kept it close in the first half, but the speedy and talented Volunteers put tog<~ther a bril­1iant S(~cond hall' and ran 
away with a 38-14  victory.  
"That gamP  was  played at a  
diffcrnnt  

1998's heartbreaking loss with a 31-29 victory on the lrish's home turf'. Notre Damn's bowl hopes were dashed and the seniors were unable to taste victory in their final home game. 
The Irish closnd out the n\g­ular season with a road trip to California to take on Hose Bowl bound Stanford. One,~ again the Irish battled, only to sec tlwir spirits daslwd with a game-winning 22-yard field 
goal  by  Stanford's  Mike  
BiseIii.  
"WP thought wP  had  a  rPal  

good chanc<' 

speed by to win thPse the team "We ·re a young team with a last fe\¾' 
11 games, but
lough schedule. We're sitting
orange," unfortunat Ply
here at 1-3. It's a realily. l'ou
Davie we came up said fol~ keep plugging along and try on thl-l short 
lowing to see the light and lhe end of 1ind of tlwm," 
the game. Fisher said
the tunnel and try to win
" T h e y following the
,. 

havfl a lot some games. 40-:17 loss to () f tlw Cardinal weapons In a season
Bob Davie 
on that when• il 
head coach
t P a m SNHnNI noth­from top ing could go to bottom. right for the That's an impressivP team." Irish. one s•~nior quif,tly put 
Tlw Irish didn't !'are much tog1\ther 01w of tlw IH~st sPa­better the following WPek. suf­sons by a Notn• Danw quar­fering an embarrassing 37-27 l<'rback in school history. loss to Pittsburgh in the final .lackson romph•ted a 184-of'­game at Pitt Stadium. Bro\\"11 3 1 <> 1HI s s ,, s fo r 2 7 5 3 y a r ds , had a ran!flr-day. racking up Sl'lting school r1~cords in all 208 rcc<dving yards, but tlw thn!P catPgories. ThP t,vo-yPar Irish couldn't conw away with slart<>r. a st>vPnth round pick the victorv. of' ttw l)pnvPr Broncos. was 
"I told ·our team to call it also thP lonP Irish player what it is; we got whipped," sf-d I! Ct(' d i11 t hC 2 () () 0 N F L Davie said. 'Tm just embar­Draft. rassed that we didn't play bet­The departure of Jackson ter.'' will be a big blow to the 2000 
The season couldn't come to Irish squad, but the promise an end soon enough for thP­of players Ii ke Arnaz Battle humbled Irish, especially after and tailback Jones has Davie an injury-plagued Notre Dame assured that the future of team saw its comeback effort Notre Dame football in the against Boston College fall new century will be just as short. The Eagles avenged bright as it was in the 1900s. 
Friday, May 19, 2000 page 39
The Observer . SPORTS 
Bball 
continued from page 1 
tlw season. it seemed the Irish beat the teams thev weren't supposed to be able to compt~te with and lost to Hw teams they w1\re suppos<1d to dnf'eaL \,Yins over St. John's and Seton Hall and completing the s<:ason sweep of' UConn boosted Notre Dame's stock for an at-large NCAA tournament berth, but devastating defeats at the hands of confornncn basement dwellers Pittsburgh and Providencn as wdl as lopsided loss1\s to Butgers and Villanova proved to be fatal to Notre Danw ·s NCAA tournament hop<>s. 
Tlw Irish cam1\ close to knocking off the Syracusn .. Orangemnn and Miami Ilurricanes, but they fell short in their attempt to pick up the one morP quality \\'in that could earn them a bPrth. The Irish finished off thn rPgular season with 77-54 wi11 over the (;porgdovvn lloyas to post a school best 8-8 con f'nrcnce mark. 
Tlw Irish built conl'idPnct' 

when they avenged a regular season loss to the Rutgers Scarlet Knights in the first round of the Big East tourna~ ment. The win marked the school's first-ever conference tournament victorv in live tries. 
"It was a good motivator that we got Hutgers as a draw," senior point guard Dillon said. "Them was a sense of payback and our team was up for it." 
Miami. however, once again played the spoiler, as the Hurricanes held on to defeat the Irish for the third time this season and ousted Notre Dame from the tourney. 
The Irish eagerly anticipated the school's first NCM tourna­mnn t berth since 1990. but selection Sunday didn't go as Notre Dame hoped. Doherty's squad had to settle for a NIT bid. 
Notre Dame used the NCAA tourney snub as a motivator. 
"We want to prove the Committee wrong by not letting us into the NCAA tournamrmt," sophomore cnnter Harold Svvanagan said. "\,Ye're out to provn something. That's our mindsot ()Very ganrn. \Ve're going to go out there and play our hardest and shcl\v every­body that we could have played in tlw Tournanwnt. They made 
Congrats 2000 ChemBelles on your graduation!! 
Love, SMC junior chemists 
a mistake." 
The Irish pulled out hard­fought victories over Michigan. Xavier and BYU to advance to the Final Four. 
Notre Dame routed Penn State in the semifinals, but saw its Cinderella season conrn to a disappointing end with a 71-61 loss to Wake Forest in the title game. 
"The thing about this team is that we never quit," Graves said after the game. "\Ve were down 16, 18 and we came back and brought it to live. A couple shots here and there it's a difforent ball game but, that's the way it goes. We are happy about this year." 
l\1urphy was the only player in the countrv to finish in the top 10 in b(;th scoring and rebounding. I le was honornd as tlw Big East Player of the Year and named a first-team All­American. Following the sPa­son, the sensational sophomore announced that he will return for his junior year. 
Dillon set a school record for assists and Graves broke the school's mark for 3 pointers made in a season. 
Whether it was Dillon's two­h anded slam over Erick 13arklev, Ivan Kartelo's block of Albert Mouring or David Graves' bu/zer beater against Ohio State, this year's Irish squad will be remembered for many things. But most of all, they wiil go down as the team that put Irish basketball back on the map. 
"I told them, I said they'll have a special place in my heart," Doherty said. "You don't ever want to say one team's going to be more special than another. It's like saying one child's more special than anoth­er and that's not fair. But it's going to be tough for some team to steal my heart like this team did." 
BASEBALL 
Sluggers record best season in recent years 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame baseball team finished off one of its strongest regular seasons in recent memory Sunday af'ter­
n o o n . defeating Big East Conference champion Rutgers 10­6 at Frank E c k Stadium. 


The Irish Stavisky finished the season 42­
14. only the second time ever that the Irish havte posted 42 or more regular season wins. Their 18-7 mark in the Big East left the Irish one win over Hutgers away from the Big East regular season champi­onship. Coming into the sea­son, the Irish returned many starters, but also had many questions. 
After losing leading hitters Brant Ust and Jeff Wagner, the returning Big East champions faced a lack of power in the lineup.Those concf~rns were answered with the emergence of freshman right fielder Brian Stavisky. Stavisky, led the Irish with 14 home runs and 126 total bases while batting any­where from second to sixth in the lineup. 
Also posing a concern for head coach Paul Mainieri was the state of the team's starting pitching. All-American junior Aaron Heilman and veteran 

Shannon, 
A cutie at two and 22! Congratulations on your graduations and Happy Birthday, May 21, 2000. 
We Love You, Mom, Dad, Sean, and A.J. 

Take home a memory of Senior Mass at the Grotto 

· Signed, limited edition print, ready to frame, $75.00 (Shipping extra) Available at Lafortune, Warren Golf Shop. For in town delivery, call 277-1968 or 634-4085 on campus. 
starter Scott Cavey were 
proven commodities, but the 
remainder of the staff wa~ 
untested. Freshman .J.P Gagne 
posted a 7-1 mark as the third 

starter, while classmate Matt 
Laird went 5-2. 
In the season's final game, 

junior Danny Tamayo, who 
had not pitched in two years 
following surgery, picked up a 
win over Hutgers. 
Heilman, -one of the two 
highest-ranked college pitchers 
in the country, and Cavey pro­
vided the dominance that was 
to be expected on the mound. 
After struggling in his first 
start, Heilman returned to post 
a 10-garne winning streak, 
including a 18-strikeout game 
over Connecticut. Cavey postnd 
a 5-2 record while pitching 
exclusively in tournaments and 
the competitive weekend 
games against Big East oppo­
nents. 
Three veterans led the Irish 
offense. Junior shortstop Alec 
Porzel finished third in the Big 
East in hits with 73, while his 
50 HBI led the Irish. Senior 
Matt Nussbaum. a former 
walk-on, drove in 34 runs 
while splitting time between 
left field and catcher. 

Senior Jeff Felker, voted the ·best defensive first basernan in 
the Big East, batted .303 and 
added six home runs, including 
a thrilling game-winner over 

St. John's on April 30. 
The Irish take on the Boston 
College Eagles today in the first 

round of Big East Tournament 
play. The game is at 4:30 and 

will be broadcast on the 
Internet at www.und.com. 


..... -----­


FOUR YEARS IN REVIEW 
page 40 Friday, May 19, 2000 
G ofthe 1996-2000 academic years  We'll mis.~ you, Lou! November 20, 1996  Holtz leaves Notre Dame After 11 ycars as head football coach, Lou Iloltz officially announced his resig­nation. llis 100 career wins are second only to Knute Bockne's 105 victori,1s. Despite consistent successes over the course of his career at Notre Dame. his only national championship came in 1988 when the Irish defeated West Virginia in the Fiesta Bowl to complete a 12-0 sea­son. Holtz l1~d the Irish to near misses in 1989 and 1993 but a loss to the Miami Hurricanes and a last second Boston Collf~ge field goal spoiled any hopns of a second title. Holtz did not indicate any specific rea­sons for his departure and gave no sign that another coaching offer was imminent.  

Irish hire Doherty 
After an exhaus­tive search by ath­letic director Michael \\'ads­worth, former Kansas assistant coach Matt Doherty was named head coach of the men's basketball team. 
Doherty became the 16th men's basketball coach in school history fol• lowing John Mc­Leod's resignation. 
Mar. 31, 1999 


5 
Davie takes 
the helm 


8 Berticelli dies of heart attack at 48 

Irish men's soccer 
¦ 
. ·--t:;•~-;-.!:~ 

head coach Mike 
Berticelli died sud­
OBSERVER... 

denly of a heart attack. Berticelli, 48, 
•\h•rt.'i M><.'f:~r -.-..wt<:h t.0("-A -.oddf'nl)· ,1 Al(e 48 

coached the Irish 
~.~.:'$'...:.::::::.::. 
/-:~f-~,:;:·: i~:~~";;; 

vears as a head 
-~:.:._,,...._. ..,.... ··...., _:~,_+,:::;.~.. +.--~: 

~:oach and compiled a 104-80-19 overall
;:-~0;;:~;:: ~:~~~.~~~ 

record. Berticelli led 
'il-2:."½..1·::~·.:~0; ·~,,,.,...,.. ~:..~~::· =.--:-....-::..::..--:-.=\r..;.:-~-::.-: 

h:s team to the 1996 Big East Champion­ship title and three NCAA tournament appearances. 
Jan.26,2000 
SPORTS 
1--=~~.······.····•.••..••........................ -...---..-. 
ii;~fune for the REALLY Bi Danc1: 

3 Wotnen's hoops reach Final Four 
Led by seniors Beth Morgan and Katryna Gaither, the Irish women's basketball team defeated favored George Washington in the NCAA region­al finals to gain the team's first Final Four berth. 
In the Final Four, Notre Dame made an early exit, losing to Tennessee. 
Mar. 7, 1997 
Irish defensive coordinator Bob Davie accepted the head coaching job less than one week after Lou Holtz announced his resig­nation. 
Davie is only the second head coach to be hired within the ranking of the Irish staff. He became the 26th head football coach in school history. 
Nov. 25, 1996 
Renovated9 stadium opens 

I ;~~{;_ff}?~ ~~'t~';bF'-~.; ..',;;. 
0BSE.RVER 
Wadsworth resigns 
Tk-apite appe-.Al.$. commlttt:"(' g1:Yt-!I Rt~nnt".r/Naglc Ute """1u 
',, ..............~, . . . .
. ' 
~~[i!E!!t14fi 

4 Wadsworth resigns as athletic director 


7 Saint Mary'sjoins MIAA conference 
~OBSERVER 
It's official: Davie succeeds Holtz 

m.1h fiml rt!p/Ol"t!mt:·rtt m !ht.. :\'[) lamtir " ..::.: ·, . 
::~<)..·:<c~ 
~.7:~.-:::..-;.::-:.--.-~.:r.. 
:-;.T.,:;-:-.~::;•;:;-.;:.::-..z:: -:.:->:7P.::......":;:::'.;::"..~'" 
... .,_,,___ ...:.,.., .... "..,...... -~-.......... -..... ·" 


After a f'ivn-yt!ar reign as Notre Dame athletic direc­tor, Michael \\/ads­worth resigned from his position. 
At the same time of Wadsworth's res­ignation, University President Edward Malloy announced his plan to restuc­ture the administra­tive responsibilities of the athletic department. 
Feb.8,2000 

fl·:;,,,~····"''......~; :-·;-;.:::::::'.;;;·:·»::;;,,........;.:I 
~OBSERVER 

Saint Mary's offi­cially. joined the Michigan Intercol­legiate Athletic Association (MIAA), the oldest collegiate athletic conference in the United States. 
This decision came as part of Saint Mary's effort to improve its ath­letic program. Saint Mary's became the eighth college to join the conference. 
Aug.25,1999 
Kachinarik 

accepts position 

Saint Mary's an­nounced Lynn Kachrnarik will re­
dEsERVER 
place Jan Travis as the new athletic director. 
Kachrnarik l!\f't her position as assistant athletic director at Bucknell in order to accept the position at Saint Mary's. She announced om~ of her first goals is to in­crease alumnae sup­port of Belle athletics. 
Sept. 3, 1999 

After two years and $50 million of con­struction, Notre Dame stadium was rededicated with 21,000 new seats, a new press box and a new facade. The House that Rockne Built increased its capacity to 80,016. Notre Dame beat Georgia Tech in the first game of the new stadium in front of a sold-out crowd. 
Sept. 5, 1997 
10 

------------~---------------, --------. 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish suffer first losing season 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Spores Wrirer 
The Notre Dame women's lacrosse team ended its 2000 season .with a 5-10 record, marking its first losing season in the team s four year history. 
''I . foe I like we faced a lot 
of' chal­lc n gc s," c o a c h T r a c y 
C o y n e said. ''I've never had a losing season as a head coach. It's going to give us a renewed sense of commitment to accomplish our goals." 
The Irish competed this sea­son for the first time in the squad's history without a senior class. 
Helying heavily on the lead­ership of the junior and sophomore classes. the Irish also needed a strong freshman class to fill in the gaps. Four of the 11 first-year Irish start­ed fivn games or more. 
"Our t<\am ½'as pretty bal­anced. \<\'(~ had a lot of fresh­men in the Ii1w up , " Coyn e said. 
Dan ioII e SIm a re r I e d th e attacking youngstt-~rs, finishing second on tlw team with 31 points, 21 goals, and 10 assists. 
"It takt1s a lot of hard work to lw a varsity player at this school," sophomore tri-cap-


Friday, May 19, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 41 
Jumper 
continued from page 1 
finish since joining the league. She placed second in the high jump in both the Big East Indoors and Outdoors Championships. 
The Battle Creek. Mich., native leads her team not only with top-notch perfor­mances but a positive atti­tude. The senior was select­ed as a team captain for her hard work ethic, on-field accomplishments and acade­mic excellence as a biology and education double major. 
"She'll do anything you ask her," field events coach Scott Winsor said midway through the season. "She's very con­scientious. She works hard, 
many aspects of the game," "I've never had a losing Coyne said. 
season as a head coach.
"Scoring her 100 
It's going to give us a
goals is pretty awesome." renewed sense of If the offense 
comnzitment to
struggled this 
season, the accomplish our goals,, defense shone. Starting in all 15 
Tracy Coyne 

games for the 
head coach

Irish this season, Lam was named \Vhite. 
Durkin saw the majority of action this year, fin­ishing with a .548 save percentage and an 
11.11 GAA, starting in all Irish contests. 

and I think she puts in as much time as she's physically capable of. She's a pleasure to work with." 
Engelhardt is the only female Domer ever to clear the six-foot barrier. She did so with a 6 3/4 foot jump at the Mt. SAC Relays last fall, and repeated the accomplish­ment last weekend. 
With only one meet left to run in a Notre Dame uniform, Engelhardt is moving on but not giving up track and field. She holds out hopes of quali­fying for the Olympics in her post-Blue and Gold days. 
"The Olympic Trials are right over the horizon," Engelhardt said. "That would be my ultimate goal. It's like the next step up. I think it [jumping] is something I'm not going to be able to put down." 
tain  Kathryn  Lam  said.  
"That's just awesome."  
Junior  tri-captains  Lael  

()'Shaughnessy and Kathryn Perrella led the attack corps, stepping in for the absent senior class. 
"This is the third season with recruits on the team,'' Coyne said. "That's where we are in terms of the program. The juniors on the team are from the first recruiting class. I think they did a great job." 
()'Shaughnessy finished first on the team in points and goals for the second year in a row, totaling 27 goals and 34 points in 15 games and passed the century mark for goals in the team's 12-10 loss to Harvard. According to Coyne, O'Shaughnessy's formidable 1999 totals made her a defen­sive target for other teams. 
"IO'ShaughnessyJ excels in 
season, [in] all the adverse sit­uations," Lam said. "Everybody \Vorked together. \.Ye're building a program here. We're trying to establish ourselves." 
The level of difficulty has risen each season in the four years that the women's lacrosse program has had var­sity status at Notre Dame. 
"Each year the schedule was set for where we were as a team," Coyne said. "This is by far our most competitive schedule. Every game we went out there and did our best. I think the schedule for next year will be another step up." 
One advantage of a team with no seniors is that all the starters return. 
Not only that, the Irish also had the services of three goalies, juniors Tara Durkin and Carrie Marshall as well as 
Sachire 
continued from page 1 
player Ryan \Volters (6-2, 6­
2J. 
In his sophomore season, Sachire continued to be a driving force behind the Irish squad, vaulting into the top-20 national rankings and earning his first of three All-American honors. With the award, Sachire became the first Notre Dame All­American since 1994. 
"My improvement is due to the great coaching and great facilities that Notre Dame provided," said Sachire. "With the combination of indoor and outdoor courts and training room you'd be hard pressed to find a better place to practice. And as far as coaching goes, coach [Bob] Bayliss and [Michael] Morgan are two of the best in the country." 
In his junior year Sachire again broke records, becom­ing Notre Dame's first two­time singles All-American since 1992. But his top-20 ranking and numerous awards were not enough. Sachire strove to -be better. And Bayliss proved to be a pivotal factor in that goal. 
"Coach Bayliss has defi­
nitely had the biggest impact on my career," said Sachire. "When I came in ranked 20 that was good. It sounds good, but not elite. The biggest improvement in mv life came from working with Coach Bayliss. All of a sudden, my game just jumped to a new level." 
In his final season sporting an Irish uniform. Sachire excelled to even greater lev­els. Nationally ranked at the . ,. No. 9 spot, Sachire's com­manding presence on the court and his guidance off the court has been key for his young team. 
"We had a young team and some lack of experi­ence, but we improved throughout the year," said Sachire. "We played our best tennis in May and even though we fell short to Miami and UCLA in the end, we lost to two very good teams." 
As his collegiate tennis career will come to a close after the NCAA tournament, it's hard to determine whether Sac.hire will miss Notre Dame more, or if Notre Dame will miss Sachire more. 
"I love Notre Dame," said the graduating senior. "I'd give anything to be a fresh­man again and be able to do it all over again." 
team's Most Valuable Player. Slw led the defense with 62 groundballs, causing 35 turnovers while only allowing 12 and winning 17 draw con­trols. 
"We learned a lot about each other throughout the 
Marshall. last year's starter, played in two games this sea­son, finishing with a .875 save percentage and 2.26 GAA. 
"We're definitely excited about [keeping all our play­ers]." Lam said. "It's an added plus for our team." 

THE LYDICK HIDEOUT 
'IN THE TOWN TOO TOUGH TO DIE" 
26444 W. Edison Rd. Lydick, IN 46628 
"We're not here for c1 long lime, ~,•e're '1erefora good time." 
Phone: (219) 233-0321 
Fax: (219) 288-5565 


EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON 
2:00 PM -6:00 PM 
Outside in our Beautiful Beer Garden! 
PLAY VOLLEYBALL, TH.ROW HOBSESHOES OB JUST LAzyAROUND IN OUB lVIANICUBliJD . 
LAWN. FULL BBBVICE MBNU 8e BAB. 
BE THERE OR BE SQUARE' 
I I 
I 
' 
I. 
I 
I I 
' 
' 
.., 
·, 

page 42 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, May 19, 2000 
SAINT MARY'S ATHLETE OF THE YEAR 
Bill defines Belles' athletics through consistent play 

I. go-to person." Bill. a two-timf' first tf'am All-Ml/\A honoree. has record­ed more than 300 kills in each of her four seasons. She was a \Va rd e d t he Ma r vi n Woo d Outstanding Senior Athlete in 1999 and named the Belles' Most Valuable Player for the 1998 season. She was also MIAA Player of the \Veek in October.1998. 
"No matter who the competi­tion is. you have to go 110 percent," Bill said. 

I 
\. Bill has focused on the suc­
' cess of the team in her four seasons, and explained that being part of that group is what has motivated her throughout her career. 
"Volleyball is one of those sports you can play for life," she said. " I really enjoy the intensity of the game and being part of a team. I always try to motivate the other peo­ple on the team." 
Shields saw the emphasis Bill put on teamwork through­out the season. 
"Agnes had the winning atti­tude to do what it took to win," she said. "She was very team oriented; that came first." 
Fellow teammate Mary Hodovich sees more than a mere team player in Bill. 
"Even though she wants the best for the team, she also wants to improve herself," Bill said. "She is most definitely a team player, though." 
When asked what she does to motivate herself, she explained that she simply con­centrates on improving her mastery of the basic skills of vollPyball in every game. 
"I just motivate myself by really concentrating on my form," she said. 
Hodovich could not quite put her finger on what made Bill so successful, however. 
" I d o n • t kn o \V w ha t it is about Agnes," Hodovich said. "She just has this natural fire in her that drives her to do lrnr best and do tlrn lrnst for the team. It just must be somothing inside of her.•· 
Bill's li~arhirship on the court often came in her ability to step up and make the kill or the dig at a key moment in a game. She either led or fin­ished second in digs for the team each season. al,vays rncording more than 300. Bill recordf'd an uncommon 20 kills and 20 digs in a November loss to Kalamazoo CollegP. 
Iler leadership. however, extended well beyond her playing ability. 
"SIm 's v e r y ded ir a tti d and brings so much e1wrgy to tlw court," Hodovich said. "She's very determined." 

. • 
By MOLLY McVOY 
Saint Mary's Editor 

. 
Consistency has been the key to the successes that Saint Marv's athletics have had and seni~ff volleyball player Agnes Bill is the df~finition of quiet consistency. 
Bill has started f'or the BellPs each of her four years, typically at outsidP hitter, and has lt->d the team in kills every one of those seasons. · 
"I Bill l is a good passer, a good d,~fensiv(~ player, just a good all-around player," said Hhanda Shinlds, former hcarl coach. "She is a player that has 11PV<ff really struggled in any area. She \·Vas always a 

/\side from her leadership on the court, Bill was tho athletic commissioner for Saint Mary's Board of Governance and a team captain for her junior and senior years. 
"She played for four years and, by her senior year, she had developed good leadership skills where everyone looked up to h<>r," · Shif~lds 
..!Vo maller who the 
said. B i I I co,npetition is, you have explained 
to go 11 o percent."
that the {~ X p C r i ­ences as an Agnes Bill a th lcte at 
Saint Mary's Athlete of the Year 
S a i n t Mary's h a v e !wiped her leadership skills. The competition and team­work have helpf~d prepare her for the world she will enter after graduation. 
"[Being an athlete] really helps you develop into a per­son," Bill said. "It helps you 
with time management, work­ing with others and being able to communicate with all dif­ferent ages." 
Aside from the skills, both athletic and academic, that Bill will take with her from Saint Mary's, she explained that she will take much more than memories from her col-
country." 
Bill attfinded Badin Iligh School in Hamilton, Ohio and will graduate ,vith a degree in communications. After gradu­ation, she will begin a job in advertising for the Discovery Channel. 
¦ ¦
Author s 

Meet author 
Father Bill Miscamble 
Friday 

May 19th and 
Saturday 

May 20th 
2:00 pm 
in the Hammes 

lege career. 
"Most impor­tantly. I'll take the friendships I've developed both through sports and in my cIasses. " she said. ''I've made so many friends from all over the 

Father Bill Miscamble, a Holy Cross Priest and History Professor at Notre Dame, joins us to sign copies of his book, 
l<eeping the Faith/ Making a 
Difference. What began as talks, reflections, and homilies at the University is presented in a collection of essays, encouraging a positive contribution to society following graduation. 
HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 

Friday, I\-1ay 19, 2000 page 43
The Observer . TODAY 
JEFF BEAM

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 
4 T~\W&5 '{Ou WILL !!QI' ':)EE ~1 1'1-1E C.t.~SS OF "2..000 G,t.....ov~"tlO\.I  f'>OlJ,;_ M~L0'< JINC "H.\E. Bot>.\!.~ Of "'tft.\)STEE~ t>olNC.. $P\JS\\-Vt'S' foi !;I\C'r\ &t...t>V~"t\l-lG, SEN\O~  

°;;,~'.ti>'.
.,S..0-P~,f;~ 
L.lrmt 
~ 1b 'Gt-
Fox TROT 
I LIKE To BALANCE LIICE THIS AND IMAC,INE THERE'S A PooL oF LAVA BELOW. 
~ 
'l' 

BILL AMEND 
C 2000 BIU-by-l'n!ss S,ndieale 
olC, NOW I'M DoES LAVA DEADLY ALLtC,AToRS. 
OR A PIT OF SNAtc:ES AND 
oR A••• HI 
REALLY SCARED SURN OFF 
\ 

To FALL. COOTIES? ~I ' 
S! 
~ f'\J.LA~
,. 

In five paces and a handshake, "talented student" becomes "unemployed-graduate­living-at-home-with-his-parents." beam.1@nd.edu 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

1 Mideast V.I.P. 10 Green gimme 15 Dapple 16 Province of Italy 17 Subject in a 
Rembrandt painting 

18 Language group that includes Xhosa 
19 King's place 20 It holds the line 21 "Inside the Third 
Reich" author 22 Letter in runes 23 Fruit named for 
a city in Turkey 25 Starch source 26 anemone 27 Essence 29 Ur. addendum 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE H I C 
-:-:+=+-,T,,...+-,H-1 
S A 

55 Drain 56 Harp, for one 57 Modern 
memoranda 58 Mesmerized 60 Busted looie 61 Source of rare 
metals, maybe 62 Wound up 63 Flower that's a 
symbol of purity 
DOWN 1 Duck 2 Ran fast, to 
Brits 3 Spenser 
portrayer 4 Floppy 5 Play favorites? 6 Early malls 7 Hotel posting 8 Minimally 9 Freight carrier 
at sea 
10 Some like them hot 11 Go with the flow 12 Luau serving 
30 Attack 32 Butler's quarters? 33 Columbian 
starter 34 Decathlon event 37 Shampooing 
problem 39 Is multiplied? 40 Twain's" 
Diary" ­
42 You can't do it alone 
43 Something to shoot for 
44 Editor's concern 
45 Snare 
46 Ottoman title 
48 Way down, perhaps 
50 Standard setting at 0° long. 
53 Required things 

..,.....-+-+--+-~ 13 Gloss 

1-:,--t...,,.+,-,+--+-,.+--1  14 Personality  
1-4-+­ disorders  
23 Butcher's  
offering  

1-,e-t=+=+-.,-+:-+----1 24 Kirlian photography image 
-,,,,+,.......,-+----1 26 Scottish arctic explorer 
Puzzle by Richard Silvestri 
28 "Animal House" director 30 Service station employee 31 Got an earful, in a way 34 Kind of lantern 
35 Pulitzer winner for "Symphony No. 3" 
36 When to have better luck? 
38 Hit man 
41 Not clean 


45 Humperdinck 51 Shakers and heroine others 52 Apples and
47 Adriatic feeder 
oranges 49 Storming 54 Runners carry it 56 In the raw
50 Wish granters of myth 59 Lineup 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Malcolm X, Grace Jones, David Hartman, Peter Townshend 
Happy Birthday: You will pull out all the stops this year and go after your goals wholeheartedly. You won't have to think twice about tak­ing a chance on something you are curious about. Your intuition will be sharp and you will be able to choose wisely if you follow your inner voice. You must not make changes, howev­er, without doing some research. Your numbers: 22, 27, 31, 35, 44, 48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Cir­cumstances regarding your partner's finances will take you by surprise. You will have to handle money matters with kid gloves. This is not the time to condemn others for their actions. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Love connections can be made. Get out with peers. You will find interest­ing items if you go shopping. Self­improvement projects will enhance your appearance if you start them 
today.000GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
Minor mishaps concerning close friends or relatives may lead to estrangement or disputes. You need to take better care of your health. Proper diet will be a necessity. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Don't live in the past; let go of lovers 
who are long gone. Get out with 
good friends and have some fun. 
When you start living again, 
romance will find you. You've been 
living in the dark for too long. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't 
bother trying to hide your feelings. It 
is best to be honest and clear the air 
about any incidents that have 
occurred. If you are afraid of your 
EUGENIA LAST 
mate's reaction, tell him or her in a public place. 00000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Be careful if you must take public tran• sit. Delays will cause you some grief. Someone you work with may twist your words around if you aren't pre· cise in your speech. 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You'll have a problem with organizations if you let them take up too much of your time or money. Concentrate on your career, not on nonprofit pur­suits. You must secure your financial position. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Verbal abuse will lead to care­lessness. Try to channel your energy into physical work. You can make changes to your living quarters that will please your whole family. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will be industrious and con­structive in your efforts at work. You should try to dear up loose ends. Complete home-improvement pro­jects in order to avoid discord. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Promote your ideas and your skills. You can get ahead if you're willing to take on a partner. Your dynamic, determined approach will win you favors as well as a helping hand when needed. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Problems with work and home are 
likely. Don't push your luck when it 
,:omes to dealing with those who 
matter to you from an emotional or 
financial point of view. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You 
can expect someone you work with 
to be jealous of your talents. Don't 
leave yourself open to verbal abuse 
or bf'ing blamed for things that are 
not your fault. 00 

Birthday Baby: You are an explorer. You need to follow pathways that will lead you into unusual circumstances. You are eager to experiment and will try just about anything once. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialaslcom, astromate.com.) © 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd~edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vita] source of infor1nation on people and events in the Notre Dan1e and Saint Mary's Co1nn1unity. 
Join thn rnore than 13,000 readers \Vho have found The Observer an indispensible link to the hvo can1puses. Please cornplete the acco111pa­nying forn1 and n1ail it today to receive The Observer in your hon1e. 
--------------------------------------------~ 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dan1e, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Nan1e Address------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip 



Score! 
Senior Agnes Bill leads the Belles in kills and is named SMC athlete ofthe year by The Observer. 
page 42 

O
THE page 44 BSERVER Friday, May 19, 2000 
NOTRE DAME ATHLETES OF THE YEAR 
Observer names Engelhardt, Sachire top ND athletes of 2000 
• Jen Engelhardt • Three-time All­aims for third All­American Ryan American season Sachire dominates at championships for Irish on court 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN By KERRY SMITH Associate Sports Editor Sports Editor 
When the Notre Dame track Ryan Sachire used to want no and field team tallied its points part of Notre Dame. at the end of every meet, it "I actually never wanted to knew it could count on a top­come here," said the senior two finish from high jumper captain of the men's tennis Jen Engelhardt. team. "I used to cheer against 

All season long, Engelhardt Notre Dame when I was appeared at or near the top of young." the podium for her exceptional But when the three-time All jumps. Now, just weeks away American was in high school, from the NCAA Track and something changed. Field Outdoors Championships, After learning that Notre Engelhardt is on a quest for Dame wanted to recruit him to her third All-American perfor­play tennis, he decided to come mance, more than any other for a visit. female track runner in Notre "I came here and as soon as I Dame history. She qualified for stepped on the campus I fell in the meet with a 6-foot leap at love with it," said Sachire. the Billy Hayes Invitational last "There is no place with a better Saturday. combination of academics, ath­

"All-American status is letics and social life." great," Engelhardt said earlier And just as Sachire fell in love 
. in the year, "And I'd love to be with Notre Dame, Notre Dame blessed with that again. fell in love with Sachire as he Becoming All-American and led the men's tennis program to then continuing to do it junior new heights with his determi­year [is my greatest success]. nation and dedication to the That was really rewarding and sport. something I never expected.'' As a freshman, Sachire wast­
Engelhardt placed ninth at ed no time leaving his mark on 
I. the NCAA Indoors the Irish roster. Notching his Championships a year ago, and first of four consecutive seasons 12th her freshman season. with more than 30 wins, the This season, she hopes to Canfield, Oh. native compiled a break into the top eight. 37-9 record at the No. 1 singles 

Engelhardt steered the Irish position and battled his way to to third place at the Big East the round of 32 in the 1997 Outdoors Championships this NCAA tournament before season, matching their highest falling to Stanford's prized 
I , see JUMPER/page 41 see SACHIRE /page 41 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 


Doherty brings pride back to Notre Dame basketball 
p , passed them. They worked ranked opponents Arizona j By BRIAN KESSLER their tails off. They trusted me and Maryland. Assistant Sports Editor and believed in me and my "It hurts. You can't go unde­staff from day one, and they feated for your coaching First-year head coach Matt responded whenever we chal­career, but it hurts," Doherty Doherty arrived in South Bend lenged them and came up said following Notre Dame's last year with the hope of with some huge wins." 76-60 loss to Arizona. "I want putting Notre Dame basket­The Irish posted a 22-15 our guys to hurt a little bit, ball back on the map. record and finished as the because I don't want them to ii In only one season, Doherty runner-up to Wake Forest in accept this." and his Irish squad did just the postseason National The Irish dropped their that. lnivitational Tournament third straight game to a Led by first-team All­(NIT). ranked opponent when they American Troy Murphy and a "I couldn't have imagined traveled to Bloomington, Ind. solid group of role players, the this season in my wildest Bobby Knight's Hoosiers overachieving Irish stunned dreams," Murphy said. scored the first 17 points of ranked opponents and Not too many people could the game and the first 15 brought respect back to the have. Notre Dame stunned points of overtime to defeat Notre Dame basketball pro­No. 4 Ohio State 59-57 in the the Irish, 81-64. Losses to gram. season opener on a buzzer Vanderbilt and Miami fOhio) · "I have expectations of win­beater by David Graves and added salt to Notre Dame's ning every game and winning built on that emotional victo­wounds, but the Irish got into the national championship, ry. a groove in late December and that may sound ridicu­But after that 3-0 start, the and rattled off seven straight lous, but those are my expec­Irish lost six of seven and had victories, including a 75-70 tations," Doherty said follow­fans believing it was just the shocker over defending ing the season. "Then you same old Irish. Notre Dame national champion realize you 're not in a perfect advanced to the Final Four of Connecticut in Hartford. world. Did this team live up to the preseason NIT, but suf­During the second half of my expectations? They sur-fered back-to-back losses to 

see BBALL/page 39 









