
Last-minute Campaigns 
Battle of Mod Quad 
Follow the progress ofthe candidates as 

Monday
The East/West rivalry continues as both 
the race for the presidency enters its 
Pasquerilla Halls establish their own 
final days. 
unique traditions. 
NOVEMBER 6, 
News . pages 6-7 
Scene . page 10 
2000 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIV NO. 49 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Hitting the books with Alliance for Catholic Education 
Former ACE pupils return to the program that once inspired them 
By KATE NAGENGAST 
· Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame's renowned ser­vice through teaching program, the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE), not only pro­vides understaffed parochial schools with teachers -but also works to foster mentoring relationships between the stu­dents and their teachers. These teachers, however, are students themselves -recent college graduates working to Dame without the ACE teach­ers' [influence) .... Ali the teachers were very informa­tive," said Tai Romero, a fresh­man who had ACE teachers at her high school, Bishop Sullivan in Baton Rouge, La. "Everybody in Louisiana stays in Louisiana because the state has a great tuition assistance program ... so it was really tempting to stay 'there. but the education is obvi­ously not the standard of Notre Dame. The ACE teachers were there to tell us to trv different 
things." 
Lawrence 
"I never would have even Santiago, a
complete an intensive mas­imagined coming to Notre freshman ters program from Loyola
Dame without the ACE 
during the College Prep summers teachers' [influence]." in Shreveport. Louisiana,
between their two years of had a similar
Tai Romero 
teaching ser­experience.

fonner ACE pupil
vice. "Before high 
Founded in 1994, the program has grown immensely and continues to flourish. This year the program placed 151 teachers in 13 states and 25 dioceses. As a result of three new grants, schools in 11 more states and 22 more dioce­ses will receive teachers who have been prepared according to the ACE model by next fall. 
Notre Dame students not only serve as teachers in the ACE program now, but some of them were the pupils. A number of current Notre Dame under­classmen studied under ACE teachers in high school -an experience they deemed instru­mental in making their college decisions. 
"I never would have even imagined coming to Notre 
school and before I met my ACE teachers, I had no concept of Notre Dame, or of college at all for that mat­ter. But they would share their stories and in one instance even -because we are all big Louisiana State fans in Louisiana -my ACE Spanish teacher forced us to listen to Notre Dame's fight song," he said. "Seeing her example ­how well-rounded, how spiritu­al and smart she is -it stuck with me that that was a product of Notre Dame because all the other ACE teachers that fol­lowed were like that so I knew that was where I wanted to be." 
T8aching by example is just one of the values the ACE pro­gram instills in its teachers. 
see ACE/page 4 

ACE volunteers (1-r) Colleen Murphy, John Duggan, Nicole Shirilla, Kevin Grugan and Cameron Gunville, gather on the steps on Bond Hall for a group picture. All are currently teaching in Baton Rouge, La. 



An ACE teacher tackles another day ofschool in Jacksonville 
By TARA MAHNESMITH News Writer 
At 5:30 a.m., the second rioor of the ACE house in Jacksonville, Fla., is silent, but not still. Seven teachers get ready in the nine-bedroom brick convent they call home for another day of teaching. 
Chris Adrian, a second year ACE teacher, is the first to leave -just after 6. He drives for 10 minutes in the cool morning darkn~ss to St. Pius V 

McCain stops in South Bend to support Chocola Congress bid 
By JASON ·McFARLEY 
Assistant News Editor 
Just over a week after presidential candidate George W. Bush visited Michiana, other promi­nent Republicans were on hand Saturday to rally support for congressional nominee Chris Chocola's campaign. 
Among them was U.S. Senator John McCain, who urged voters to elect Chocola in a Third District race that McCain and others said might determine control of the House of Hcpresen tatives. 
McCain. who said he was campaigning in tightly contested congressional districts to help Hepublicans maintain control of the House, por­trayed Chocola as a candidate who would bring strong values to government. 
"What's important is we have a man of decen­cy and integrity. We need this kind of represen­tation in Washington," McCain said of Chocola, who's campaign for incumbent Democrat Tim Rocmcr's seat has gained momentum in recent weeks. On Oct. 27, Texas Gov. George W. Bush stopped in South Bend. 
McCain, who vied against Bush for the GOP presidential nomination, told an enthusiastic audience inside a hangar at the South Bend Regional Airport that Chocola will work for cam­paign finance reform, one of McCain's signature issues. The Arizona senator said as well that Chocola will "be an independent voice" in bring-
see MCCAIN/page 4 School. He passes palm trees planted in the median of the road that attempt to improve the appearance a poor area of Jacksonville. 
Arriving at the blue, two­story cinder block school at 6:10, he goes directly upstairs to his seventh grade class­room. He eats breakfast and reads the local newspaper, and at 7:05, begins to write a science exam for his eighth grade class, which he will give later in the day. 
Students begin to walk in at 
7:40. Nineteen students are present when Chris, standing behind a white podium at the front of the room, says calmly, "Put your social studies books, spelling books and your gym shoes in your lockers. Ones ­go to your lockers." The class is dismissed one number at a time to the blue lockers in the classroom. While other stu­dents are putting their things away, three girls walk in late and put their things away qui­etly. 
The girls wear navy blue 
see AD RIAN/page 3 
CAMPAIGN 2000 



Bush, Gore shore up· last minute support 
Bush showed the flag in Michigan and Pennsylvania. but the Republican lost no time in racing to Florida where his brother's status as governor led many to assume the state would be safely in the GOP camp. 
Polls, however, show Gore running strongly there. and Bush was seeking to plug the dike with a Sunday swing. 
Gore was sprinting through the close, seeking to energize 
see ELECTION/page 7 
Associated Press 
Both predicting victory, pres­
idential candidates Al Gore and 
George W. Bush sprinted 
through battleground states and 
urged su pportcrs to get out and 
vote on Election Day. 

In the 48-hour run-up to 
Tuesday's election, the two 
were contesting big states and 
little, both claiming a conl'i­
dence belied by a heavy cam­
paign schedule. 

page 2 Monday, November 6, 2000
The Observer .NSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 
An appeal to the 
. 


almighty vote 
I low many or you are as anxious as I am for this entire presidential election to be over and done with? 
Don't get mn wrong, I am a snlf-proclaimed political junkie. In my opinion, I think that Texas 

Governor GMrge W. Bush would make a great presi­dent. Its exciting to work for The Observer during this important time, and I have enjoyed researching the candidates and their plat­forms. Overall, the entire process has been intcrnst­ing, and I have enjoyed fol­lowing the election ... until recently. 
J have become disillu­sioned. 
It seems like every second of every day I am bombard­ed with political propagan­da. It is exhausting. and I 

Nate Phillips 
Copy Editor 

look forward to the election's conclusion. 
The constant barrage never seems to end, and 

it has reached a point where I cannot open a 
paper or turn on a television without being con­
fronted with one or the presidential candidates 
claiming to be better than their opponent. 
This technique of negative campaigning and "dirty politics" used by the different candidates is just frustrating. Everyone knows that the candi­dates are not perfect. and like everyone else, they have made mistakes in their lives. 
Nevertheless, it has become an accepted politi­

cal technique for candidates to smear the reputa­
tions of their opponents. Too often in today's 
political arena, politicians appeal to the almighty 
vote. and never stop to think about the overall 
ramifications of their decisions on the personal 
lives or their opponents. 
For instance, in a desperate attempt to garner a few extra votes in the closing days of the elec­tion, Gore's team recently released a statement claiming that Bush was convicted ofa DUI 20 years ago. What does this really accomplish? Gore's plan to smear Bush's reputation in the hope that it may sway some undecided voters just frustrates people and makes them even more disenchanted with the entire political process. 
On top of pursonal attacks, both parties also put out commercials that question the proposed plans of their rivals. Gore produced a commer­cial claiming that Bush promised both the elderly and the young social security money that he does not have to give. In response, Bush's team released a commercial claiming that Gore used "fuzzy math" in his proposals, and that he is deliberately lying to the American people. These commercials succeed in confusing voters, and make them even more unsure about which can­didate is speaking the truth. 
The exorbitant amount of nasty and unneces­sary political and personal bashings has gotten out of hand. The negative campaigning has not affected my vote, but it has given me a huge headache. 
It is my sincere hope that eventually political candidates will refrain from personal attacks, and will solely focus on the issues. To their cred­it, both Bush and Gore have done a fine job of establishing the differences in their two posi­tions, and in providing two distinct platforms that voters can choose from. It is unfortunate that in the final few weeks of their campaigns, they have resorted to petty political techniques. As a young, idealistic voter, l am anxiously waiting for a can­didate to emerge that will rise above dirty cam­paigning techniques and partisan politics. 
The views expressed in the inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Finn Pressly Ja;;kie Browder Nate Phillips 
Graphics Meg Daday 
Jose Cuellar 
Sports 
Production Molly M;;Voy 
Kathleen O'Brien 



Viewpoint 
Lab Tech Lauren Beck 
Amanda Hughes 

The Observer (USPS ~99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam a.nd vac:aion periods. The Observer is a member of the Asso,iated Prc,s. All rcprodu<tion rights .re ,e,.,rvcd. 


THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Hesburgh named effectivt president 
Nov. 10, 1986 

In a survey to identify the most effective college presi­dent, the name most ofien mentioned was Notre Dame president Father Theodore llesburgh. The study's pre­liminary results indicate effective presidents are indeed different from typical presidents. Hesburgh humbly responeded to the survey by qucstoning the validity of his nomination. 
Suspects arrested in Eck assaults 
Nov. 8, 1994 
Two suspects were arrested concerning an assault on the Eck Tennis Pavilion. Charles O'Hara and Jonathan Hoffer, both of Mishawaka, confessed to attacking male walkers to Turtle Creek. They assaulted students on three seperate occasions. In one incident, a student said that one of the men looked as if he had a stun gun. The men were charged with two counts of felony rob-
Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 


College newspapers release endorsements 
LOS ANGELES. Ca. 

The editorial boards of college newspapers around the nation arc weighing in on who they support for president in the upcoming election. 
But coming to that decision can be challenging for editorial boards, which are sometimes split along ide­ological lines. 
While many college newspapers have not published their decisions yet, a random sample of those that have show a decidedly Democratic lean. 
But some are also taking the Nader factor into consideration. 
Though the editorial board of University of Michigan's newspaper, The Michigan Daily said it supported Gore, it acknowledged several of Green Party candidate Ralph 
"Coming to that decision [about which candidate to endorse} can be challenging for editorial boards, which are sometimes split along ideological lines. " 
Nader's strong points. 
"Nader is a quality candidate and his stances on the death penalty and the drug war are better than Gore's, but he doesn't have the experience or know-how that Gore possesses," read The Daily's endorsement of 
OHIO UNIVERSITY 
Civil rights ignored by colleges 
ATHENS, Ohio 
American colleges and universities routinely betray the nation's and the students' liberties through cen­soring speech and hiding shady practices in the shad­ows, said Alan Kors, president of the Foundation for the Individual Rights in Education, in a speech in Ohio University's Irvine Auditorium. "Universities cannot deny in public what they do in private," said Kors. a University of Pennsylvania professor. "The mere thought of public exposure most often works." Kors explained the students who fought for freedoms are now the ones who deny rights in campus speech and in judiciaries proceedings. in an effort to save students from themselves." It's a new standard of bad faith," he said to an audience of roughly 50. "Freedom of the students was the first thing to be sacrificed." Judiciaries in America are run by parti­san people with agendas other than justice, Kors said. Instead, judiciaries are controlled by officials who want to use the system as a means to advance their political agendas. 


LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeatrer riirocast for daytime conditions and higli lemper.itures 
Tuesd,y 
Ll Wedn~sday d 
Thurs~ay 8, Friday} 4 
I 

Satlp'day . r~, 
,(5"/u'· '··.-. s,) 


4-~-~AeQ (f ~ u 
Showers T-stcrms Rain Aurries Snow /cs Sunny Pf. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Anoc,-arad Press On,phicsNel 
Gore. 

Gov. George W. Bush gained the editorial support of the newspaper of one his home state's largest pub­lic universities. The Daily Cougar. 
"Bush's positions on the issues facing America show him to be a knowledgeable candidate with ideas · that are right for the nation's pre­sent and future," read the endorse­ment from the The Daily Cougar. 
Hut Gore gained the support of the fightin' Irish. 
"Gore's plan to reduce the nation­al debt in times of plenty to guard against problems when the economy takes a downturn is the best plan for the futur.e of America," reads the editorial from the University of Notre Dame's newspaper The Observer. 


WASHINGTON STATE 
Students at high risk for mono 
PULLMAN, Wash. 
Young adults have a higher probability of contract­ing mononucleosis, said Mary C. Steed, the nurse coordinator for Washington State University Health and Wellness Services. According to medical records at HWS, 47 students tested positive for mononucleo­sis since January. People often perceive mononucleo­sis as being hfghly contagious, Steed said, but in actuality, it is not easily transferable. Mononucleosis, usually referred to as mono or the "kissing disease," is most commonly contracted through sharing, such as drinks, cigarettes or lipstick. Mono is most preva­lent in October and November, said Dennis J. Garcia, a family and sports medicine physician for IIWS. Garcia said he believes the reason for a higher fre­quency in the fall and early winter is due to colder weather. Students start hanging out indoors with other people and they decrease their amount of phys­ical activity. He said a lack of physical activity depresses the immune system, which makes people more susceptible to infection. 


NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeathe~ forecast for noon, Monday, Nov. 6. 
508 Lines separate tugh temperature zones for the day_ 

Cl 2000 AccuW...thef, Inc. COLO WARM STATIONARY 
Pift5U,.; 

® © D D B D CJ D 
,..

High Low S2'ow•r1 Rain T••to,me Flurrln Socw sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Atlanta  74  62  Las Vegas  84  60  Portland  56  40  
Ball,more  74  27  Memphis  80  62  Sacramento  61  48  
Boston  74  27  Milwaukee  50  43  St. Louis  71  58  
Chicago  68  48  New York  70  49  Tampa  78  54  
Houston  88  67  Philadelphia  34  56  Wash DC  75  54  

Monday, November 6, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Adrian 
continued from page 1 
pleated cotton skirts down to their knees with white, short­slceved, button down shirts. They wear white socks and black shoes. Their shirts, like the boy's white polo shirts. must be buttoned all the way up and their shoes tied at all times. 
Chris officially begins the day at 7:45 with one Hail Mary, fol­lowed by a scripture reading. He raises his voice over a noisy truck on the road that runs right behind the school to finish the reading from St. Luke before he instructs the class, "Now work quietly on your journal entries. Tho sentences are on the board, as usual." 
For the first time, there is silence as the students work on the sentences for 10 minutes. While they're working, Chris walks around the room to keep them on task. One boy, Daunte, begins to talk. Chris passes his desk and taps on the student's desk lightly with his fingertips, alerting Daunte (but not the rest of the class) of his presence and therefore reminding him to continue working. 
At 11, Chris's seventh grade switches to another classroom for math. The eighth-grade class, Chris's class from last year. comes in for the day's sci­ence lesson. 
The minute this class walks in, Chris lets his guard down. He laughs and jokes with his students. When one student ceases to quiet down, Chris says, "You're reminding me of one of the original rap songs. Are you familiar with 'Pushing me to the edge?"' The class bursts into laughter and a few students finish the popular song, "We're try-ing not to lose our heads." The class then qui­ets down as Chris hands out science tests to the students. 
Chris said that the difference between the way he taught last year and the way he teaches this year is very significant. "This year I'm giving them more structure. l know I have to be more organized about the little things that, in the begin­ning. I didn't think mattered." 
He jokes around with his class from last year a lot, but does, so very :,~rely with this year s class. I m much more distanced this year -I'm not their pal. My relationship with my kids from last year is too much like they am my younger siblings. But l think I'm setting myself up so that second semes­ter, I can be their pal. and they'll still respect me." 
Chris uses last year's experi­ence paired with the advice and examples of the administrators and other teachers to know how he can contribute to this school's success. 
''My biggest strength as a teacher here is that l'm mold­able. The administration and the teachers know these kids; they know their culture and their needs, and I don't. They can make me into the kind of teacher they need for the school." 
"Structure is the most impor­tant thing, and t help to main­tain that. From the minute they walk in the door, they have structure," he said. "Even little things--tying shoes up, for example, or not wearing their 
November 7 -November 10 9am -9pm November 11 9am -5pm free admission open to the public Century Center Convention Hall B 
120 South St. Joseph St., South Bend, IN 46601 
We accept VISA; MasterCard, American ~xpress~ J.Crew credit cards, cash, and personal checks (with proper identification). 
Directions, From the North or South, St. Joseph Street is anorthbound one-way street the continuation of Business US 31. thrnugh downtown South Bend. From the South, ths C8ntwy Center is on the right side of the street next to the river The parking lot is on the south side of the Center Frum the North, US 31/933 becomes Main Street (one-way soull1boundl in Jo.1ntown South Bend. Follow southbound. tu111 left to Jefferson, turn lelt to St. Joseph Street Century Center is on lhe right side 
from the East· Indiana Toll ROlld 80/~0 westbound. look for South Bend hit 77 Notre Oame. Turn right at the bottom of the ram~. head southllound on US 31/933 into the middle of town. lurn left at Jefferson Street into the Century Center p3rkmg lot 294 westbound, exit Ro Lite 12 towards Niles. Cross US 31 and St Joseph River Exit US 31/933 to South Bend. Take aleft on Jefferson Street. Century Center parking 1s at the end DI the street From the West Indiana Toll Rood 30190 eastbllund, !ooh for Soulh Bend Exil 77 Notre Dame. Turn right al lhe bottom of tile ramp, head soutlibound on US 311933 into the rruddle of \lie town Turn left at Jefferson Street into the Century Center parking lot. 294 eastbound. across the M,cl11gan state !me. the second exit is marked Roule 12 Niles. Exit and tum right on Route 17. Cross HS JI 3nrl St. Joseph River. Exit US 311933 to South Bend Take alett on Jefferson Street Century Center parking is at the end ol the street 
coats in class--are important in providing structure. The kids try to anything they can to dif­ferentiate themselves, but so much of the structure comes from knowing you have to con­form to the rules if you want to stay at this school." 
Sister Elise Kennedy, princi­pal of St. Pius, agrees that class management is one of the hard­est aspects of teaching for any teacher, especially for young teachers. 
But the structure their school provides is vital to the school's mission. 
"Many of the kids here live very poor lives. We want to provide stability for them here · because they don't necessarily have it at home," she said. 
"Our school has greatly bene­fited from the ACE program. The teachers who come here are young and enthusiastic. Their enthusiasm sparks enthu­siasm among the rest of the fac­ulty to make sure that the stu­dents succeed," said Elise. 
At the end of the day, Chris goes outside with a few student council members to sell candy and soda for fundraising. Ile jokes around with the students before heading hack up to his room. 
Chris is sitting at his desk when an eighth-grade student, Kyron, runs in and asks Mr. Adrian to come back down to the parking lot because there is an emergency. Not knowing what happened, but picturing many frightening possibilities, Chris runs down to the parking lot. 
There is an accident -both his and Margaret Oakar's (another ACE teacher at St. 
Pius) cars were hit in the park­ing lot. No one was hurt, but neither of their cars can be dri­ven. At about 6., the second­grade teacher takes Chris and Margaret home. 
The day didn't quite end up how Chris had planned it. Although structure and stability are two things that Chris strives most to provide for his stu­dents, they are two things that he does not truly have much control over. But he and Margaret have a community waiting for them at home to talk to. 
During their community din­ner that night, Chris and Margaret tell their story. Instead of despair, the rest of the community responds with laughter. They laugh at the bizarre turn of events for the St. Pius teachers, and they all laugh as each person shares events of his or her day with everyone else. 
The stability that the commu­nity support provides for each member helps each teacher to deal with the problems and issues that arise during the day. They help each other to be fresh teachers every day. striv­ing to provide the structure that their students need to succeed. 
After dinner, the teachers busy themselves with lesson planning, talking to friends and family on the phone, or visiting with each other. Chris works on his portfolio for the academ­ic portion of the program before going to bed in the home that is as quiet now as it was when the day began. 
And then a night of sleep to prepare for another day of school. 
Wednesday, November 8 Friday -Saturday, November 10 -11 at 8 pm 
Sunday, November 12, 2000 at2:30 pm 
Little Theatre 
S•inlM.,y>Call•·•o 
,MG_~ll{_ 
~NOfflE DAIIE, 1H 

For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's Box Office at 
284-4626 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM 
IN 


DUBLIN, IRELAND 
"The Best of Both Worlds" 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Wednesday, November 8, 2000 102 DeBartolo 4:45 PM 
With Claudia Kselman, Associate Director International Study Programs 
Application Deadline: December 1 For Fall 2001 -Spring 2002 A Y 2001-2002 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 6, 2000 

McCain 
continued from page 1 
ing about needed changes in 
areas such as taxes, Social 
Security and the military. 
"Help is on the way," McCain said, and a flag-waving, ener­getic crowd joined him in chant­ing the words. 
McCain also interjected some humor into his speech. At times, the senator's talk resembled a stand-up comedy routine. During through the appearance, McCain directed some barbs at his own unsuccessful presiden­tial bid. 
"I think Arizona is tho only state where mothers don't tell their sons that they can grow up Lo be President," McCain said, referring to the past failed bids of other prominent men from the state. 
That remark drew laughter from the audience, but the crowd listened in silence when McCain offered a poignant story about his time spent as a pris­oner of war in Vietnam. Some rally attendees were visibly moved by McCain's narrative about a fellow POW who sewed an American flag.endured a cruel beating once it was dis­covered and began work on another Dag immediately fol­lowing the punishment. 
McCain used the story to make a statement about honor­ing American veterans. 
"I've can't stress enough how important it is that we love, appreciate and cherish the sac-
Fill·the Void www.nd.edu/-slee/vote.html 
VOTI! 





PataQ'onia
excltisively 
at-...... 
Sminute~ 
fiom 0UTP011T 
s ors


Campus ~,,.._,,_,.. 
Call 259•1000 far more details 
rifice of people in the armed services," he said. 
McCain joined other Hepublicans Saturday in urging the importance of Chocola's election. 
Virginia congressman Tom Davis took time during the rally 
to  direct  sharp  barbs  at  
Chocola's  opponent,  Tim  
Hoerner.  

"Yes, I am from Virginia. Yes, I am Tim Roemer's congress­man," Davis said in reference to the issue Chocola has made to Roemer·s residence outside tho Washington, D.C., area. 
Davis and South Carolina con­gressman Lindsey Graham both said that a win for Chocola would be an early signal of Ilepublican control of the House. 
"In Indiana, where the polls close the earliest in the nation, if you elect Chris Chocola, we've won the House," Davis said. 
Graham, a House manager during the impeachment of President Rill Clinton said vot­ing in the election Tuesday would be "payback time" for congressmen who supported Clinton throughout the case. 
"Looking back on that impeachment process, didn't it just make you want to choke some folks?" Graham quipped. 
Oklahoma congressman J.C. Watts' appearance at the rally Saturday was cancelled due the the recent death of his father. 

Hepublican gubernatorial candidate David McIntosh and other GOP candidates for state, local and county elections also made appearances. 
ACE 
continued from page 1 

Romero, who now works in 
the ACE office on campus and 
hopes to one day be an ACE 
teacher herself, said the pro­
gram is reaching ils goals. 

"They have personal goals and community goals. Their personal goals are to get their masters in education ... but as teachers they are not only sup­posed to teach their subject matter, but also Christian morality and set an example," said Romero. "I think they were really good examples. They did a lot of things for each other, they were always there to lend a hand." 
Romero is not the only ACE pupil who has considered car­rying on that helping tradition as an ACE teacher. Kat Walsh. a sophomore from St. Joseph Academy in Brownsville, Texas, hopes to one-day return to her hometown as an ACE teacher. "I want to do ACE, but I hope to go to Brownsville, because I want to give back to the community that I came from. I know what's going on there -so just a student teacher relation­many people leave and never ship, you could go in and talk. go back, but I want to be one And if you had a test Iin anoth­of the people who docs go er subject] you could go in for back to help." help. She was really generous 

Jessica Salinas who attimded with her time," said Michael also St. Joseph Academy and Riess a freshman from St. 
is now a sopho- Petersburg  
more noticed not only the ACE teachers'  "It's a win-win situation because the students and  Catholic H i g h School in  
abililics to set  the teachers both gain  s  t  .  
an example for their students,  knowledge."  Petersburg, Fla.  
but  also  to  "I  think  
impact  stu­ Tai Romero  they like to  
dents through  fonner ACE pupil  joke  and  

their personal experiences. "I think they should try to make more of an impact on students since they are younger and can relate more through their college experiences," said Salinas. 
"It will help students open up to them and be good influ­ences on them. The ACE teachers at my school became pretty good friends [with the students], whereas with a reg­ular teacher they wouldn't think of that." 
"They were really focused on the students. She really worked with us and it wasn't 


• Gourmet Coffees & •Friendly Peop1e 
Teas 
say that 
they are having a lot of griel', but over­all I think they have more fun because a lot of them keep in touch with their students," said Homero about her rea­sons for wanting to participate in ACE herself. 
"It's a win-win situation because the students and the teachers both gain knowl­edge," she said. "They're teaching you the courses, but we're teaching them how to teach. We are their classes. Some of my best memories of high school will be of' the ACE teachers." 

To explore these issues in depth, investigate the unique Notre Dame Science, Technology, and Values Program (STV). This is an academic minor requiring 15 credit hours. The program is open to students in any college_ Within the~ STV Program, you may develop concentrations in specific tracks emphasizing STV combinations with Business; Environmental Studies; Preprofessional Studies; Philosophy and Theology; Computer and Physical Sciences; and Government and Public Policy. 
Course offerings for SPRING 2001 may be obtained at 346 O'Shaughnessy, or you can visit our website at http://www.nd.edu/-stv. Call 631-5015 for a personal appointment. 


---------------------------, 

,




,. RL 

,. 
Ji}:::,. 

ATION
<S:,!lc"·-'·. W 
·-o:=,..::;f:> 

November 6, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSEnVER mRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS ETHIOPIA 
Police break up protest: Police fired tear gas, swung batons and sprayed chemical­laced water from trucks Sunday to break up Malaysia's biggest anti-government protest in recent months, Led by the country's top opposi­tion leaders, thousands of people blocked a major expressway linking Kuala Lumpur, the capital, to a neighboring state and shouted slo­gans against Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad. who has ruled Malaysia for 19 years. 
Oil stains Brazilian beaches: An oil tanker smashed into a pier, spilling more than 20,000 gallons of crude oil into the ocean at a port in southeastern Brazil, authorities said Sunday. The ship, Verginia II, was transporting about 26,000 gallons of oil for federal petroleum giant Petrobras. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

City evacuated after train derails: 
About one-third of the 15,000 residents of Scottsbluff, Neb. were ordered to evacuate early Sunday after a train derailment released a cloud of noxious gas. The derailment sent 18 cars of a 79-car freight train off the track. Three of the cars were torn open. spilling about 80,000 gallons of the chemical benzene, said Burlington Northern Santa Fe spokesman Steve Forsberg. 
Cadavers supply brain cells: 
Scientists have coaxed new life out of dead brains. It turns out that even cadavers can sup­ply the incredibly versatile brain stem cells ­master cells which can turn into difTerent kinds of brain and nerve cells -once thought avail­able only from fetal tissue. It appears that just about every bone stem cell can be tweaked to produce brain cells. "It's an extraordinarily exciting field," said Ronald McKay of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders. 


INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
House explodes: Fire and police officials have confirmed that a Northern Indiana Public Service Co. crew had been on a service call at a house just hours before it exploded Friday. "The extent of what the service people did is not quite clear," said Valparaiso Fire Chief Thomas Steindler. "There's not a lot of detail because (NIPSCO) has not had the opportunity to talk with the individuals who were working that day." Valparaiso Police spokesman Cpl. Michael Grennes said NIPSCO had been at the house for a pre-scheduled maintenance check on a gas meter. 
Market Watch 11 /03 

Dow 

10,880.51 -71067 

]ONES 
t.f, 
Composite Volume:

1,199 NIA 
AMEX: Nasdaq: 3429.02 -36.24 NYSE: 

S&P 500: 1428.32 +7.10 TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/Sf,ClJRllY %CHANGE $GAIN . PRICE WORLDCOM INC (WCOM) ·7.27 .137 17.56 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) ,5.78 -1.81 29.56 PSINETINC (PSIX) -56.J4 •J,79 2.94 lNTEL CORP (INTC) . 4,0 1i ..-1.81 46.69 CISCO SYSTEMS {CSCO) +6.95 +3.62 55.75 

Selassie reburied amidst controversy 
Associated Press 
ADDIS ABABA 
Bells tolled and thousands of Ethiopians wailed and applauded Sunday as Haile Selassie, their last emperor, was finally laid to rest 25 years after his mysterious death. 
As leaders of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church stood by, resplen­dent in their colorful robes, elderly veterans of Ethiopia's 1936-41 strug­gle against Italian occupation carried the coffin -draped in the nation's red, green and gold nag -up the steps of Trinity Cathedral. The emperor's family, friends and associ­ates embraced at their first public gathering since 1974, when he was overthrown by Marxist military offi­cers. 
A crypt had been waiting at the· cathedral since Haile Selassie's remains were discovered under a concrete slab on the grounds of his former palace in 1992 -17 years after he died under house arrest. 
Officially, his death at age 83 was due to complications from a prostate condition. The Haile Selassie I Foundation, which had worked for eight years to give the emperor a suitable burial, claims he was assas­sinated. During a trial that seeks to bring members of the 197 4-91 regime of Col. Mengistu Haile Mariam to justice for the killings of dissidents and monarchy loyalists, two of the emperor's personal ser­vants testified that he was killed on a night they were ordered out of his room. 
Haile Selassie, who assumed the throne in 1930, was the last in a line of emperors who forged the modern Ethiopian state out of an ancient land of feuding chieftains. To his supporters, his rule was a time of peace and stability during which modern education was introduced in the oldest independent state in Africa. Critics say he was too slow in reforming a feudal society. 
Sisay Taddese, a 19-year-old stu­dent who was kicking a soccer ball around with friends as the funeral cortcge passed between Bahta Taika church -where Haile Selassie's remains had laid since 1992 -and Meskel, the city's main square, said he believed the emperor was "a responsible leader who ran a benev­olent government." 
Since the 1974 revolution that ousted him dissolved into terror, Ethiopians have suffered a series of wrenching events. A cataclysmic 1984-85 famine devastated the nation and the 1991 ouster of Mengistu by another group of rebels sent the nation of 62 million reeling once again. 
While the funeral could be seen as the end of an era, the nation remains one of the world's 10 poorest coun­tries and has yet to formally end a two-year border war with neighbor­ing Eritrea. 
The government of Prime Minister Meles Zenawi, which grew out of the rebel movement that ousted Mengistu, made no formal statement about Haile Selassie until last week. when it called him "a tyrant and oppressor of the masses." 

Although the foundation issued an open invitation to the government to attend the funeral, no one official showed up, and state-run broadcast media -the only ones operating in this Horn of Africa nation. -did not mention the event. 
Randi Ronning Balsvik. a history professor at Norway's Tromso University and an Ethiopian special­ist. said Meles' government had "played it all very safely" by allowing the funeral to take place, yet making clear its position on Haile Selassie's legacy. 
In town for an international con­ference on Ethiopian studies, she said she felt she had "really observed a moment in his\ory." 
Although many people too young to have lived through them express nostalgia for the days of the last emperor "when life was orderly and prices didn't rise all the time," in the words of 21-year-old student Addesalem Tesfaye; there is little sense here of a serious movement to reinstate the monarchy. 
"We want to rehabilitate his name, but not only his name, that of Ethiopia as well, and our own histo­ry," said Wolde-Semait Gebre-Wold, who was a senior official under the emperor and an organizer of the funeral. 


ISRAEL 

Two Palestinians shot in Gaza Strip 
Associated. Press 
JERUSALEM 
Scattered clashes Sunday across the Gaza Strip and West Bank left two Palestinians dead, 17 injured and tensions high despite a truce agreement and plans for upcoming meetings in Washington. 
President Clinton, who has been trying restore calm to the region, will play host to Palestinian leader Vasser Arafat on Thursday, and Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak three days later, on Nov. 12, the White House said Sunday, 
Both Palestinians killed Sunday were shot dead. in the Gaza Strip. One was Maher Mouhmad Alsaidi, a 16-year-old boy hit in the head during a con­frontation near the Al Bureij refugee camp, according to Shifa hospital director Mouawia Hassanian. 
At least 10 Palestinians were wounded in Gaza, and seven were hurt in the West Bank in a clash out­side Bethlehem, to the south of Jerusalem, according to Palestinian security forces. 
In the West Bank, two Jewish settlers, a man and a woman, were wounded when Palestinian assailants ambushed their car and opened fire, set­tler spokesmen said. The military command con­firmed the shooting inci­dent. 

In a plea for peace, tens of thousands of Israelis filled a Tel Aviv square on Saturday night to pay trib­ute to former prime minis­ter Yitzhak Rabin, who was assassinated at the site five years ago by an ultranationalist Israeli opposed to trading land for peace with the Palestinians. 
The current violence has hardened attitudes on both sides and put seven years of peace negotia­tions on hold. Many dovish Israelis, including some of those at the rally, said their faith in the peace process has been shaken. Many Palestinians, mean­while, said they have little to show for the lengthy negotiations. 
Barak on Sunday told his Cabinet that the large turnout was "an impres­sive and emotional demonstration" of the Israeli commitment to peace. 
"It's unfortunate that on the other side such a demonstration of the peace process could not occur," he said in a refer­ence to the Palestinians. 
8OSNIA~HERZEGOVINA 

41 Muslim villagers finally laid to rest 
Associated .Press 
NOVOSEOCI 
Forty-one Muslims came home Sunday to this hamlet now settled by Serbs, and they were buried by dis­placed and dispersed families who had spent eight years praying they might still be alive. 
It was yet another Bosnian drama, a vignet'te of life in a patchwork country that cannot find peace five years after the Dayton accords ended its war. 
Novoseoci died on Sept. 22, 1992, when Serb units assembled the small farming population in front of the mosque. Forty-five males were marched away. Damir Ocuz. at 14. was the youngest. Edhem Karie was 
85. Everyone else fled. 
Until September of this year, sur­vivors could only guess that their worst fears were true. Eventually, a dying Serb with a bad conscience told authorities what many people had suspected. Crews went to work at Ivan Polje, three miles from here. 
"We had to move tons of garbage and also 15-ton chunks of the mosque the Serbs destroyed before we uncovered the mass grave," said Amor Masovic, head of the Bosnian missing persons agency. "First we located a thigh bone. Then, all the rest." 

Four of the missing were not found. 
Masovic said Serbs had smashed the bodies together with a bulldozer, creating a nightmare puzzle for forensic experts who sought to iden­tify the remains. When initial work was completed. family members were asked for confirmation. 

page 6 The Observer . NEWS Monday, November 6, 2000 
ff' CAMPAIGN 2000 ~ 


Nader urges voters to 'invest' in future generations 
By ANNE-MARIE MATTINGLY 
N=• Ediror 

WASIIINGTON, D.C. 
The Green Party platform provides an alternative to Americans who do not want to vote based on their perception of' which 
candidate is the lesser of the two evils. said R a I p h Nader, G r e e n Party presi­dential can­

did ate. at Nader 
the last of 
his campaign's Super Rallies, 
Sunday. Nader urged voters to consider a vote for his party as an investment in the third party system because he believes the Green Party is poised to become a major force in the future of American poli­tics. 
"On Tuesday, Election Day, millions of independent minded voters will invest their con­science, their hope.s, their dreams. their interests, in the interests of their descendants in making the Green Party a party of, by, and for the people. so that it can grow to make our government of, by and for the people in reality," he said. 
In order to return control of the government to the hands of the people, citizens must wres­tle the governments interest from influential corporations. said Nader. Specifically, corpo­rations must stop seeking what Nader termed ucorporate wel­fare." in which the organiza­tions make deals with politi­cians to gain economic busi­ness advantages, while depriv­ing citizens of money that could be used to improve Americans' lives. 

Modern examples of corpo­rate welfare include grants from the federal government to pharmaceutical companies to develop new drugs, only to gouge the taxpayers who fund­ed the research when they pur­chase the medicine. Nader also cited the sale of national lands containing valuable gold and silver to foreign interests and excessive military spending as among the abuses of taxpayer money by corporations. 
"People are deprived in their necessities of life in the facili­ties that are known as the pub­lic works because of the diver-
Earn $20/hr! 
-~· 
MCAT MCAT MCAT MCAT
.. 
/
Still waiting for'that killer test score to bri!l,i; in some cash? 
I 
Here's your chance! 
Call 1-888-581-8378 or .,/ 
email info.chicago@review.com(!}_he 
for a teaching position today! Princeton 
Review 
www.review.com 1.888.581.8378 
sion of these budgets into the age for citizens who cannot coffers of rich and powerful afford insurance. corporations," said Nader. "How long are we going to "Trillions of dollars have been wait? Only as long as the diverted and misused by com­Republican and Democratic plex corporate welfare systems parties remain in charge. rs rarely studied by university that how long we're going to students or scholars. Corporate wait? Let's not wait for that welfare systems in the past 30 long," said Nader. "It's time to years while politicians tell peo­say once and forever that p Ic 'There is no money for health care i.s a right in those necessities. There is no America, a human right for money for the urban crime everyone." scene. There is no money for The Green Party candidate rural poverty.'" also focused on reducing costs 
Such favoritism for large cor­for health care by policing the porations threatens small busi­costs of prescription drugs, ness. said Nader. Instead. gov­which are significantly more ernment should demand that expensive in the United States the well-to-do corporations use than in Canada. He also their own funds for such pro­pledges to put occupational jects, leaving funds previously health. specifically preventing diverted to corporate welfare disease and trauma, ahead of for programs for America's cit­corporate profits; at the same izens. he argued. One major time. Nader calls for the reclas­change that must occur before sification of international infec-
America can  tious disease  
take back its government, though, is  "Elections are for real people, not artificial  as a matter of national secu­rity because of  
that the link  entities."  the  threat  
between cor­ they pose to  
porations and campaign  Ralph Nader  national health.  
money must  presidential candidate  In  addi­ 
be severed.  tion to mak­ 
"Elections  ing  health  

are for real people, not artifi­cial entities like corporations full of massive power and mas­sive money driven only by their own commercial motives," said Nader. Nader drew a stark contrast between himself in the major parties, claiming that the way in which he has conducted his campaign provides proof that he can be trusted to sup­port true finance reform. 
"Our campaign has been con­ducted in an honorable and exemplary manner because we believe if you advocate reform, you have to practice what you preach in order to preach what you practice," he said. "We do take PAC money. soft money, corpo­rate interest money. Only. individual contributions from all over the country." Nader explained that he has generated the majority of his campaign funds in small. private gatherings and through small donations from a number of private citizens. 
Nader's campaign empha­sizes supporting the lower economic status. small-time donors who have supported him thus far by advocating universal health care cover-care accessible to all regard­less of cost, Nader calls for changes to promote the eco-. nomic well-being of workers earning lower wages. 
"The federal minimum wage is at $5.15. That is over $2 lower in real pur­chasing power than the fed­eral minimum wage was in 1968 when the economic output was half and it is today and the productivity was 60 percent less," said Nader. "Who's getting the gain? We know. It's the top

========-========-======--=-======,,,..=====""'"-""ii 


IN Chicago: .January 9-14, 2001 
TOPICS INCLUDE: 
. Violence Prevention 

. Adequate and long-term Housing policies . Justice in the Workplace . Education strategies for the inner city 
. Fund-raising for Non-profits 
. 
Learn from local church, school, and ,wt-for-profit le_a~ers about grassroots initiatives to improve commu,iihes. 

. 
Experience the hope, the disappointments, and the moments ofgrace in community work. 

. 
Challenge your perceptions ofpower cnuJ. powerlessness, service and action. 

. 
Capture the Spirit faun.a i,i building diverse relationships. 


Application Deadline: 5:00pm, November f,, 2000 
Come to the CSC for Application & Leaming Agreement. Questions? Call Jay Caponigro at 631-5293. 
10 percent and more in the top challenging this great two­5 percent and more in the top party system." he said. "!The 1 percent," ho continued. "The major parties] command the top 1 percent of the wealthiest money. They command the people in this country have media. Thf'y command the 
wealth equal to the combined wealth of the bottom 95 per­cent. And you take the poor­est 120 million Americans and their combined net worth is equal to the wealth of Bill Gates a year ago." 
Nader also 

advocated repealing all free trade agreements and renegoti­ating them. repealing the union-restricting 1947 Taft­Hartley Act and reducing child poverty. 
Ultimately, Nader conceded that developing a formidable ~hallenge to the !.11~jor parties 1s no easy task. Its not f'asy 
''Trillions ofdollars have been diverted and misued by complex welfare systems rarely studied by university students." 
Ralph Nader presidential candidate 
not to be persuaded that because a Nader vote detracts from Gore's liberal base, it is in essence a vote for Bush. 
"[A vote for conscience] is the vote that you need to register, not for the lesser of two evils where at the end of the day, you're still left with evil," he said. 
p h o n e y debate com­mission that excludes sig­nificant third parties and candidates from being in the debate." 
Still, Nader urged citi­zens to vote their con­science and 


c I!: 1-11 1 [ JI P' D n 
SOCIAL CONCERNS

')l~:;~Iliiliti1t!;~:3~) -­
c~me an·d se~ 
page 7

Monday, November 6, 2000 The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 argues that Gore can't be trusted while Gore warns that
Nader: DC is 'effectively a colony' Election 
Bush cares only for the 

By ANNE-MARIE MATTINGLY News Editor 
WASHINGTON, DC 

The failure to provide Americans residing in the District of Columbia with a voting Congressional repre­sentative is to treat them as second-class citizens. said Green Party presidential can­didate Ralph Nader Sunday. 
Nader gathered with DC Statehood Green Party candi­dates to call for change for DC's residents, claiming that the disparity between the rights of the citizens of states and those of the district con­tradicts the principles of democracy. 
"The district is supposed to be the symbol of the freedoms for which this nation stands. The light of democracy is sup­posed to shine from the District of Columbia, but it does not illuminate this city," Nader said, 
"The core is hollow. The val­ues of equality and political participation that the city is promised are denied right here in our nation's capitol." 
Because the district does not have the full powers of a state, members of Congress are responsible for approving its budget and have the power to overturn any action of the city's government, Nader explained. 
Because district residents 

have no voting Congressional 
representative, the have no 
say in how the $2 billion they 
pay in federal income taxes 
each year is spent. 
"The District of Columbia is effectively a colony. with all local decisions directly subject to change by a Congress that is largely out of touch with local realities," said Nader. 
"The United States is the only democracy in the entire world that deprives the resi­dents of its capitol city the basic rights granted to all other citizens." 
Unaccountable power such as that Congress has over the District of Columbia necessari­ly results in uninformed deci­sions leading to a dysfunction­al system. said Nader. 
The city has an infant them from Congressional con­trol, said Nader. Republican presidential candidate George 
W. Bush does not support statehood for the district and Democratic candidate Al Gore, who supported statehood ten years ago, has been silent on the issue since that time, he explained, 
Instead, district residents who seek their full democratic rights must depend on minor parties Jike the Green party for support. 
Nader pledged that he and running mate Winona LaDuke would focus on statehood for the district so that Congress 
will no longer be able to 
mortality "It chokes the ability and ignore it. rate that is destroys the responsibility "On behalf 
double that of the Green
ofpeople to govern 
of the rest of Party of the tho nation, themselves.,, District of and an esti­Columbia and mated one in our candida­
Ralph Nader
three chil-cy, we pledge dren lives presidential candidate to you that 
below the poverty line. 
Unchecked power also results in apathy among citi­zens for their government, Nader explained. 
"It chokes the ability and destroys the responsibility of, people to govern themselves. There's no place in the world where second-class citizens live side by side with first­class citizens and fare as well. It just doesn't happen," he said. 
But citizens of the district should not look to either of the two major parties to liberate 
we re going 
to make this an issue in the succeeding months, more and more inten­sified, deeper, broader, partic­ularly across the country. and putting the heat on Congress until justice is done for this community," he said. 
Several members of the crowd responded to Nader's promises with enthusiastic chants of "Free DC." 
Green party supporters gathered after Sunday's rally ended for a march through the city promoting statehood for the district. 

continued from page 1 wealthy. Both are seeking to project an air of confidence, claiming campaign momentum 
his political base with appear­in the race's final hours even ances before African­as they took nothing for grant­
Americans and union leaders. 
ed. 

His selection of campaign "We're coming down the venues showed his electoral stretch," Bush told backers. "I betting. want you to man those phones. The Democrat opened his With your help, we're going to 
day Sunday with big rallies in win." Philadelphia "We're and Detroit, going to 
but also "We're coming down win," Gore headed to said. "Write
the stretch." 
Wisconsin 
it down ­

and Iowa. book it." He'll be back George W. Bush Bush said in Pennsyl­the stark
presidential candidate
vania before the election, but was also going to Florida before voters render their decision. 
Most national polls give a slight edge to Bush. but Gore is running strong in some big battleground states and the two are often crossing paths contesting the same states. 
Pennsylvania and Michigan are key to Gore's hopes, while he hopes to steal an unexpect­ed victory in Florida that would be· a body blow to Bush's hopes by grabbing that state's 25 electoral votes. 
There was little subtlety in the campaign's close. Bush was making his core argument that voters are ready for a change after eight years of controversy under President Clinton, whifo Gore was saying the administration has gotten the economy perking and vot­ers should keep the prosperity going. 
Under those themes, Bush 
contrasts 
h e ' s sketched should "spell victory on Nov. 7." 
Both also claimed backing from unlikely quarters. Bush pointed to a sign declaring a Democrat to be backing Bush. "You're not alone, buddy," Bush chortled. 
"I saw a sign over there that said 'Republicans for Gore' and I appreciate that," said Gore. 
Gore warned that middle­class families have the biggest stake in this year's election. 
"My friends, we need to respond to the needs of work­ing families," said Gore. "I will be a president for the working people." 
Both were preparing to head home to await the verdict from voters. Bush plans to watch returns in Austin, Texas, while Gore heads to Nashville to await the outcome of this year's marathon presidential campaign. 


SHOWCASE OF CAREERS 2000 
Thursday, NOV. 9th 3-SPM Who should attend Saint Mary's annual fair? 
-, First year students -gather information to assist in deciding a major. -, Sophmores and Juniors -find out about internship opportunities. -, Seniors -gain networking contracts for employment after graduation. 
This event is open to all students of Notre Dame, Holy Cross and Saint Mary's 
This annual career fair is co-sponsored by SMC Board of Governance and Saint Mary's College Counseling and Career Development Center HAVE YOU REGISTERED WITH SMC'S JOBDIRECT.COM-http://saintmarys.jobdirect.com 

Saint Mary's College Counseling & Career Development Center Le Mans Hall 166 Notre Dame, IN 46556 PH: 219.284.4565 FAX:219.284.4524
lobDirect.com 

VIEWPOINT 

O
THE page 8 BSERVER Monday, November 6, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
!'.O. llox Q, No,rr Dame, IN 46556 024 Sou,h Oining Hall. Norr, Dam,. IN 465% 
EOITOR IN CHJFF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EoffOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillesp1c Tim Lane 
AS.!>T. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER Chrisrine Krnly Brian Kessler 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly . V1t:wrorNT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MAR¥'S EDITOR: Mally McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
ADVER'l'ISING MANAGFR: Par Perers Al> Df.SIGN MA.N,'CER: Chris Avila SYSnMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WF.B ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGERiGENF.RA.L INF0.............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 
ADVERTISING... .... ..631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.. ............631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/ASST. ME.. ................631-4541 8USINESSOHICE.. ...................................631-5313 NEWS................... .....................................631-5323 
observer .obs news. l@nd.edu V1t:wr0INT ...............................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR¥'S... . .................................. 631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO.. ....................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sit<" at h,rp:llob1m,er.nd.rd11 for Jaily updates uf campus nt-ws, sports, foacures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forccasrs 
weekly student revit-ws 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
:rnd r.itcs of print ads 
cial campus cover.ige 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
~rtidcs published after 
co meet the editors and 
Augusr 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of rhe Universiry ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the adminisrration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advcrriscment.s based on contenr. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department cdirors. Commentaries, lcuers and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThc Observer. 
ViLwpoinr space is availahlc ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lec1crs is encouraged. Letters to the Edirnr rnust be signed and mus1 include contacr information. 
Q11m10,u regarding Obur,.,er policirs sho1tld be direct­rd tu Editor in ChiefMik, Connolly. 


The evening news in Russia is eye­opening these days. Every week on M1 a small television station out of Moscow, young women deliver newscasts while either undressing, being undressed by others or already naked. The pro­
Scott Blaszak
gram is "The Naked 
Truth," and every 
Saturday viewers 
The Early 
tune in to watch 
Hussian Party boss­Essays 
es and members of 
Parliament inter­
viewed by professional, attractive, naked 
reporters. It's great television, as the 
uncomfortable interviewees try their 
damnedest to look anywhere but at the 
pretty Hussian girl with the microphone. 
Sex sells, and the ratings reflect it, but don't mistake "The Naked Truth" for simple exploitation. Women like Svetlana Pecotska, the Ukrainian actress turned anchor. aren't being exploited -they're in on the joke. And "The Naked Truth" is social satire of the best kind because it's indecipherable. So what's it satirizing'? The news, according to Sergei Moskvin, the creator of the program. Listen to just the audio, and the program comes oIT as straight and dry as any news broadcast. Watch just the visual, and you've got absurd pornography. 
The message, Mr. Moskvin explains, is that the news should not be taken so seriously. "The Naked Truth" is, accord­ing to him, an attack on pompous, ego­centric television news reporters. What Mr Moskvin is asking is, I think, why has journalism become entertainment'? Sounds to me like a message as relevant here in America as in Eastern Europe. 
These days, "Sports Center" broad­casts resemble stand-up comedy rou­tines, as each anchor's catch phrases and shtick obscure the simple details of the games themselves. Anchor Stuart Scott describes athletes performing well as "straight butter" and "as cool as the other side of the pillow." Over a home run highlight, Kenny Mayne imperson­ates the batter, shouting, "I am king of the diamond. Let there be a grand club­house feast. Bring me the finest meats 
and cheeses throughout the land." 
Instead of converting anchors to enter­
tainers, though, why not just put enter­
tainers behind the desk? Monday Night 
Football has, by tossing Dennis Miller a 
headset and hoping that his erudite allu­
sions boost sluggish ratings of the last 
few years. Football fans are left scratch­
ing their heads and reaching for encyclo­
pedias -who is Sylvia Plath and what is 
her relevance to New England's kicking 
game'? Try as he might, Miller can't help 
but become the focus of attention. And 
it's this approach that has become so 
prevalent in journalism these days. 
Everyone's a star, from your local tele­vision news anchor to investigative reporters. It's no longer about the story. It's about who's telling it to you. who got the exclusive, who broke the story first. Of course, the truly journalistic response to these ideas is, who cares'? Just give us the news. But with ratings and advertis­ing wielding so much power in reporting these days, credibility and responsibility are often jettisoned for pizzazz. 
Take ABC News, for example, which proclaims itself "America's Number One News Source." When "America's Number One News Source" granted Monica Lewinski the international broadcast rights for her interview with Barbara Walters (netting Lewinski a cool million). it was an embarrassing bench­mark for major network news coverage. 
Just last year, ABC News faced even more chagrin when it's Earth Day inter­view of President Clinton by Leonardo DiCaprio miscarried -Leo froze in front of the Commander-in-Chief, responding, "Wow," to the president's explanation of how the White House had become more energy efficient. ABC has been castigated ever since for the incident, but really it's just one of many instances of the major networks turning the spotlight onto themselves. 
Yet, the major networks avoid the dis­cussion of themselves as a business. With the entire business world seemingly about to merge into four monster compa­nies, rarely do the major news organiza­tions acknowledge the effect these merg­ers -often involving themselves -have on their reporting. NBC is now owned by Microsoft. Think that doesn't affect their coverage of the anti-trust trial'? You're hard pressed to ever hear anything posi­tive about the Fighting Irish on ESPN because ESPN is owned by Disney, who owns ABC, whose Saturday regional col­lege football programming competes directly with NBC's exclusive contract with Notre Dame. Profit margins, ratings and business mergers shape the news of the 21st Century. 

So what will it come down to, Dan Rather opening the "CBS Evening News" buck-naked? Most likely no. but I don't think the ridicule of Mr. Moskvin 's nude news is lost on American journalism. The line separating journalism and entertain­ment has blurred. Since sex and violence define entertainment, it follows that jour­nalism turn sexy and violcmt. And it has. Still, we don't have to watch it. and undoubtedly audiences are partly to blame for favoring irresponsible news coverage. Credible news reporting exislc; in this day and age. It's on CBS and it's called 60 Minutes and it's full of' integri­ty, but I don't know anyone under 40 who watches it anymore. 
Mr. Moskvin, on the other hand, now there's a man in tune with what the pub­lic wants to see. Building on the popular­ity of' "The Naked Truth," he's got a new talk show in the works that will resemble "Larry King Live" and star the newly-dis­covered John dePalrna. Each week, dePalma will instigate thoughtl'ul dia­logue about such topics as politics, love and western philosophy with famous, reputable guests. Is Mr. Moskvin aban­doning his satirical bent and trying his hand at straight news'? Not so much. John dePalrna is a chimpanzee. 
Scoll Blaszak 's column appears every other Monday, 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not nece.c;sarily those ofThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 

E 
0
TAKE THI$ TO 
'! 
0
THE TECHNOLOGY 
@>" .. BUDDHA fOR 
E 
'C" ., 
::: 
0 0 
" E 
0 
0 
t: 
II> 
~ 
'6 
I 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"You know how it is in an election year. They pick a president and then for four years they pick on him. " 
Adlai Stevenson politician 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Monday, November 6, 2000 BSERVER page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Investigating 
political discrepancies 

In last Friday's Observer a letter favor of making voters or jurors of appeared from Rep. Chris Smith (R-NJ) Negroes, nor of qualifying· them to hold comparing Al Core to Abraham Lincoln. office, nor to intermarry with white peo­The letter says that Vice President Gore ple ... And inp.smuch as they cannot so changed his stand on abortion to gain live, while they do remain together votes and it asks what Abraham Lincoln there must be the position of superior would think of "a man who sells out his and inferior and I as much as any other 'deep personal conviction' for political man am in favor of having the super expediency." To answer this question l position assigned to the white race." offer the following quotes: -Abraham Lincoln. from a speech 
"Let us discard all this quibbling given two months later in Southern about this man and the other man, this Illinois race and that race and the other race Politicians have always been politi­being inferior ... Let us discard all these cians, regardless of how our history things and unite as one people through­books remember them. out this land, until we shall once more {Both quotes can be found on page stand up declaring that all men are cre­188 of Howard Zinn's A People's History ated equal." -Abraham Lincoln, from of The United States). a speech given in Northern Illinois 
"I will say, then, that I am not, nor Martin Clarke ever have been, in favor of bringing sophomore about in any way the social and political off-campus equality of the white and black races; November 5, 2000 that I am not, nor ever have been, in 
Exploring diversity issues 
Diversity is a pertinent issue here at make assumptions or stereotypes and Notre Dame and tonight, I am extreme­many more insightful comments. ly inspired by it. As a diversity educator What hope I have for the future! this fall, my mission is to go into the The Siegfried freshmen reminded me dorms with 40 other trained Notre that with communication. open Dame students and faculty to talk minds. respect and commitment, with freshmen about issues of 
diversity issues can be explored diversity. This education pro-and appreciated with great gram is in its second year, and ease. I was proud to be a part our teams have been preparing of a discussion which promot­for over two months for this ed a course of action that week's programs. After my will empower those with less second presentation tonight, I power, support those who am beginning to realize the 
are segregated and hurt and mission's true message and 
celebrate diversity rather the positive results it yields. 
than merely tolerate it. My hands go down to 
The Siegfried freshmen Siegfried Hall. With my fellow 
took 90 minutes to examine teammates, I went in this hall 
their own behavior and life to address diversity issues 
in trying to understand the ranging from gender, age, 
perspectives of someone 
race. sexual orientation, dis­else. Then they pledged to 
ability and other issues of continue this movement as 
diversity. Having been here at allies to others. Every dorm 
Notre Dame for a couple of has shown itself to have great 
years, we generally have high insight and courage, but I am 
expectations of the freshmen. But especially impressed with those 
going into Siegfried Hall tonight amazing freshmen from Siegfried. 
where the students were engaging 1implore them to keep being the 
and insightful, I left truly amazed. brave and compassionate leaders that 
When asked about changes that we they are. I encourage all other students 
can make to be allies to those people in to continue caring enough to learn from 
society with less social power, the these diversity programs and brave 
freshmen's suggestions were profound: enough to make little changes that will 
don't make jokes that could possibly make a difference in this world. 
hurt someone. participate in ethnic 
events to celebrate diversity, care Ken Seifert 
enough to reach and educate yourself sophomore 
about another's perspective or divtrsi­Stanford Hall 
ty, be a friend and a supporter, don't October 30, 2000 

Facing abortion's reality 
There's a little something out there So, "what about abortion?" (reference to called reality that smashes down these interruption made at Senator Lieberman's otherwise perfect worlds we've worked so speech on Oct. 24). Reality necessitates the hard to build for ourselves. It entails those freedom to respond to the consequences of sometimes uncontrollable variables of sex, our lives. drugs, love and hate, to name a few. I sug­Abortion is scary. It is undoubtedly infi­gest that perhaps some of us get so caught nitely scarier to a woman who is actually up in actually living our lives that we get forced to make that decision. It is one of carried away from our perfect worlds the most personal decisions any woman without even knowing it. And so, we cre­could possibly have to make. And the cir­ate our very own imperfect worlds as a cumstances surrounding every woman result of all r:if our fallible actions and all of who must make that decision are respec­those other messed up things over which tively personal and unique. For those of us we have no control that somehow have who can't afford the luxury of perfection still managed to alter us. That, my friends, or from whom that luxury has been is called life. stripped away, the freedom to choose is 
Life is not perfe1.:t. Or if it is, perhaps necessary. you're missing out on what's really going Thus. the legality of abortion is an issue on. Life is a series of actions and reactions of personal rights more than anything to choices and misfortunes. Sometimes eL<;e. And that is why God is, above all else, those choices aren't always the best choic­forgiving. Because God understands that es. Not everyone, though, has the luxury of we're just humans and so we screw up perfection. every once in a while. And it's hard 
What is my point? enough for us personally to deal with the 
Vice President Gore and Senator sometimes unforseeable and unexpected Lieberman may equal some things that consequences of our actions without being are not necessarily good, but I don't condemned by our more perfect neighbors believe they equal an "abortion holocaust" for all of the decisions we make in taking as apparently some perfect person at this the risk to live our lives. fine institution of higher education does But, whoever had the gall to put the (reference to the banner flown over the words "abortion" and "holocaust" togeth­stadium at the Oct. 28 football game). er in the first place probably will never get 
In what might be called a perfect world what it is I'm trying to say, because that -one without sex, without rape, without would necessitate a willingness to try to pain, without the need to make choices -understand another perspective. And who abortion would not be necessary. But God would need to do that when he/she is knows this isn't that perfect world. And already so right and perfect? there's a chance that those for whom it is Emily Dagostino have simply never opened themselves up junior enough to take that huge risk of living off-campus with all of its possible mistakes and conse­October 28, 2000 quences. 
Sharing the warmth 
It's that time of year again. The leaves each donor with a coupon for 25 percent are changing color, the temperatures out­off the purchase of a new GEAR outerwear side are dropping and the winter coats are item at the Hammes Bookstore. being pulled out from their seven month The coats collected are cleaned by St. hibernation in the back of your closet. Michael's Laundry and redistributed. However, not everyone will be bundling up Collection sites are located throughout the this winter in a warm jacket because of Notre Dame campus, including residence the simple fact that they do not have one. halls, faculty buildings and the Hammes Project Warmth attempts to do something Bookstore. The Task Force can be reached about that. at projwarmth.l@nd.edu and our website 
Our mission is to collect coats from the is www.nd.edu/-ndcntrsr/ProjectWarmth/ Notre Dame community and redistribute new/ index.html. · them through the Center for Social We strongly urge you to participate in Concerns to those in need of a warm coat this program. In the past four years the or jacket, to help enhance the Notre Dame Notre Dame community has given back effort of compassion and care to the peo­over 6,000 coats. When you go through ple in need in local communities and to your closet this fall looking for that winter educate Notre Dame students, alumni, fac­coat, think of the less fortunate and donate ulty and staff about poverty and homeless­those coats that you would otherwise dis­ness in the United States. card. With the leaves changing and the 
Project Warmth creates a partnership temperatures dropping, isn't it time you with the Center for Social Concerns, GEAR shared the warmth? for Sports and the University of Notre Dame Hammes Bookstore. Project Project Warmth Task Force Warmth receives most of its funding from November 3, 2000 GEAR for Sports through advertising and promotional material. GEAR also provides 
Casting a vote for third-party candidates 
On Tuesday, Nov. 7 millions of Americans will turn out at voting booths across the To do otherwise, to vote for a major party candidate when I believe that a third party nation to vote for our nation's next President. Simply put. when voting. a person should candidate would be the best President, would be against the purpose of my vote. To vote for the candidate that he or she thinks would be the best President. For me, that vote in this manner would simply (and ironically) be a waste of my vote. I urge all of us candidate was Ralph Nader. I strongly value his stances on campaign finance, the to use our vote for its intended purpose -to voice our opinion on whom we feel would death penalty and the environment. Most importantly, though, I value his honesty. For be the best President. these reasons, I feel Ralph Nader would be the best President of the United States. 
Others, however, have told me that I am wasting my vote. To them. a vote for a third­Richard Biehl party candidate is useless, simply because he will not win. True, third-party candidates sophomore may not win, but a vote for them is not wasteful at all. With a vote, I have a chance to Dillon Hall stand up for my beliefs and vote for the candidate I think would be the best President. November 5, 2000 
.. 

page I 0 Monday, November 6, 2000 

cene 


Snite exhibit sparks Holocaust memories 
Nov. 19. and ultimately settled in
. Bak's paintings 
"My paintings convey a sense Massachusetts.to be displayed of a world that was shattered. "Above all. Bak must be through Nov. 19 of a world that was broken, of seen as a survivor of the 
a world that exists again Shoah [Holocaust] -the through an enormous effort to experience that haunts hisBy MARIBEL MOREY put everything together," said work." said Lawrence
Scene Wr1rer 
Bak. Cunningham, Notre Dame As a child in Poland, Bak theology professor. 
Vivid cream colors sway 
was influenced by his uncle While giving visual formsthrough the tired sadness on 
who supported his efforts in to his memories, Rak "does
the canvas, transcending the the arts and who later died in not overpower the viewer.
surrealism and loneliness of 
the llolocaust. Bak survived the symbol and images them­the Ilolocaust. 
the horror and was put in two selves overpower the view­
l{eality and dreams mix in 
displaced person's camp in er," said Gina Costa, Snitethe Snite's now exhibit, 
Europe and Palestine, respec­public affairs specialist. 
"Transformation and 
tively. Ile then relocated to a The viewer is struck by the
Transfiguration: The Art of variety of sites around the sadness.
Samuel Bak and the Notre 
world including Paris. Home. Holocaust paintings have
Dame Holocaust Project" 
Israel. New York and Zurich portrayed the atrocity of' eth­which will be in display until nic cleansing or the hatred and anger felt by the Holocaust victims before. However, this exhibit is dif­ferent. Each painting is rich with an exquisite combinalion of svmbolism and C<Jlor. A surrealist influence is also tered has aged him quickly, abandonment of the llolocaust. 

present in his 

despite his youth. "This would be a very useful
paintings as the 

Bak's exhibit is not only rich experience for the Jewish pop­
real and the imagi­

with symbolism, but also dis­ulation land the Notre Dame 
n arv share the 

plays an extreme talent with community! because they
same space on the 

color, texture and imagery. didn't live through thr 
canvas. 

Although Costa did not expe­llolocaust." said Costa.
In several of 

rience the Holocaust first­Most of the Notre Dame com­
Bak's works, there 

hand. she still identifies her­munity are not I lolocaust sur­
is an image of a lit­

self with Bak's work. vivors so it is sometimes more
tle boy troubled in 

Originally from Italy, Costa dif'ficult to absorb all the senti­
an abandoned 

remembers when her grand­ments and imagery l'rom a
background. He 

mother had saved several time that W<' did not experi­
seems helpless, 

Jews by hiding them during ence.
with his arms 

the War. "When we look at Bak's art.
raised and his 

Costa said, "I try not to come then, we cannot only attend to
palms facing out­

in here on purpose." because what we see but to what he
ward. The wrin­

of the emotions that these has seen and what, in color,
kles on his face tell 

paintings provoke. Although line and imagn, we can only ­
us that the death 

this exhibit is not graphic, it imperfectly -imagine," said
and malice this 

displays the pain, death and Cunningham.
child has encoun-

A new way to look at your zodiac sign 
Zodiac is a sham. Those horoscopes Sagittarius do is wash your bed sheets, which You should not act on this feeling. based on birthdays and stars never work. Unexpected facial hairs this week will haven't been washed all semester. Zero Instead, if you have a cold, wipe your lf'you want an accurate summation of make you feel manly. Thank goodness for star day. snot on a keyboard at a computer clus­how your day is going to go, the best the ladies, Nads is now available at ter, or accidentally cough in someone's thing to do is to go to 2 Pac Shakur·s Walgreens. And as for the men, your face. This will satisfy your needs for the
Aries

grave and ask him. mustache will look great, all thin and short term. For the long term, 1recom­
Lately you have been missing your 

But if you can't get 
prickly. Put some butter in it. It makes mend buying a mood ring. and when it
childhood toys and playmates. You have 

over there, you you look mature. Two star day. turns black, lock yourself' up. One star
been noticing the only people that still act 
might try asking day.
as silly are the small number of your somebody you have 

Capricorn friends who get kicked out or bars. Well 
never met. And 
Halloween was a time of pleasure for Mr. or Miss Aries, it is your Zodiacal duty Leo

since I don't know you. You feel that you can let your true to bring out the fun without the liquor You feel like you are king of the school. 
who is reading this, self-shine through. Although it's over into your friends. When doing this you You aren't even close, in fact most people it's like I don't know now, don't stop. Go out dressed like a will find true happiness, for a week. Four think you are a dork, but even after read­you. So I am going Dominatrix or a Sex Crazed Nurse. -Let star day. ing this you won't believe it. So keepto tell you about Scott Little your libido out of its cage. Let the sun dorkin' it up. Real world -Zero Star how today is going shine all over your body. Five hormonally day. Your world -eight star day.

to go: Taurus
active star day. 

Not only are you devilishly good look­ing, but also you are smooth, and very Virgo
Libra just a little 
Aquarius good with the opposite sex. It seems as You are more innocent than you real­Lat(1ly you've been Drink a lot of water Loday. Lately your though you are a robot programmed for ize. So go out and experience the world. 
feeling like your urine has been VP.ry dark, and so have success. You will do better than ever this Do everything different today. You willinner sell' is your inner elf while the out­your mood swings. The simple solution is semester in terms of grades friends. and find this to be revitalizing. This includes side of you has no trouble getting big­water. Also. eating a few "Ants on a Log" fewest times alone in bed. Five star eating dessert first, and wearing pants on ger ... and bigger. Now is the time to slim today will help mellow out your mean semester. your head. Other people might not down for that summer bikini. 3 Star day. 
streaks. Don't be afraid to play with your understand. but it is time to look out for food in front of the ones you love. Zero your own needs regardless of what oth­
Gemini

Scorpio star day. ers think. Four star day.
For you good things will come in twos:You will get whatever you want for front tire, back tirn; right shoe, left shoe; 

your birthday, you just have to let people Remember today is going to affect the 
one brownie, two brownies; one girl­

know what you want. And at the bars, Pisces rest of your life. 
friend, two girlfriends. You have your tequila is not the answer. Go straight for You will wake up smelling like fish hands in many pies. Five star life.

the double shots of Wild Turkey. If you today. "Finally," you will think, "I am want to know what people think of you. finally turning into a merman/mermaid." The views expressed in this column are do not be direct. Spy on them. Two star This is not the case. Don't take salt into Cancer those ofthe author and not necessarily day. the shower with you. What you need to Deep down you want everyone to die. those ofThe Observer. 



Monday, November 6, 2000 page 11 
Pyros and Weasels share a spirited rivalry 
By KATIE MALMQUIST Scene Writer 
The energy generated by the rivalry between the Pasquerillas might be enough to light Mod Quad for a week. Many students claim to have witnessed the surge of that competi­tive impulse, drawing lines of separation between the two women's dorms. 
"You won't see many people walking along the walkway that separates Pasquerilla East from Pasquerilla West," said Andrea Gonzalez, a senior resident assistant in PW. 
Of course sharing a name, a distinct location on campus and a history would naturally feed the fire between these two dorms as each vies for its own identity. Still a closer look reveals that both the Pasquerillas have a lot to distinguish themselves and a lot to be proud of. 
Pasquerilla West 
Pasquerilla West, along with Pasquerilla East, was founded in 1981 with the generous help of Frank and Sylvia Pasquerilla, residents of Johnston, Penn. Both dorms have remained women's resi­everyone loves it here. We're dences since that year. 
like one big extended family." 

"We actually invited the Though many PW residents 
Pasquerillas back to campus to like to joke about their trek out celebrate our 15th anniversary 
to Mod Quad, affectionately

a few years back," said PW rec­
named for the modernity of tress Sister Sue Bruno. 

Knott Hall, Siegfried Hall (PW'sUnfortunatelv for the residents 

brother dorm) and the two

of PW, the Pasquerillas were too Pasquerilla buildings, they havesick to make the trip back to not failed to find some perks inNotre Dame. 
· their place­

Sadly, both ment.
Frank and "We have lots ofspirit 
"It's actual­Sylvia passed 

and a really strong ly really con­

away this venient," said 
freshman orientation _

year, but they 
Million­

have left in with lots ofactivities." 
Passe, who their wake a 

enjoys being

number of 
near North
Christine Kelly 

wonderful 
Dining Hall 

women who PW sophomore 
and closer to

continue to 
Rolfs and the 

promote their Joyce Centergood name across campus. 
than any other dorm on cam­This year. in fact, 240 of these pus. 

women live in PW. So what When things get slow up there makes the Purple Weasels of . 
on north campus, however, the PW so special? 

Purple Weasels make sure to "We feel we create a good, keep themselves busy with ser­open and supportive home," vice projects and let loose withsaid Bruno, who credits "a hall dances and other dorm-wide 

staff that works really. really events.
hard" among those responsible Between dorm trips to Habitatfor PW's comfortable, nurturing for Humanity and the Dismas atmosphere. 
house to cook dinner, the 

Sophomore Christine Kelly felt women of PW play a large role PW's sisterhood was its most in the South Bend community.
important aspect. 
This past week they hosted a"We have lots of spirit," said Circle K llalloween party for Kelly. "And a really strong 100 local area children, and this freshman orientation with a lot weekend they plan to host up to of activities." Of course, a strong 40 PW alumni for the Bostonfreshman orientation not only College game and a barbecue onbreeds a friendly environment Sunday.

between residents, but it also Each fall before their all hallhelps to stress that spirit from dance, PW celebrates "Queenthe beginning. 
Week," a week long competition "We have a lot of dorm pride, between sections in which each more than a lot of other places," section picks a representative to said senior RA Christina Million­compete in events such as a tal­Passe. "We're not the prettiest ent competition and ice creain or the nicest dorm, and we don't eating contests. At the end ofhave big rooms or anything, but 


Like the women of PW, the Pyros are well aware of their distance from campus, but they aren't too concerned. 
"We're a little removed from the action ... we don't get to hear the band on Saturday morn­ings" said Villaruz. "but at the same time, we're air conditioned." Seems like a small price to pay. 
Still. PE's location puts no barriers on their strong service commit­ments. Every year they make sack lunches for the homeless during the first six weeks of fall semester, and they take up a weekly donation after mass to help sup­port PE graduates who are out there somewhere doing service work. 
"We have really active service commissioners this year," said Fischer. "They try to get us all involved in a lot of activi­ties." 
Outside of these service activities, however, the Pyros spread their flames across campus with many dorm-wide activities that let off steam. 
"The football team is usually a big thing," said Fischer, who mentioned that PE could boast three 

trips to the finals in the stadium 
in the past four years. Pyromania Week takes place every fall the week before the all hall dance and includes activi­ties like assassins, ice skating, and social mixers between the women of PE and their dates. The dance culminates the week of celebration. and this year's theme of "Heaven and 
the week, the Weasel with the most points is crowned queen at the dance. 
"Queen Week is a time for people to just take a break, enjoy themselves and get spirit­ed about the dance," said Kelly. 
Other dorm-wide events include multiple barbecues, one held in the fall, another in February and always one on the last day of classes. 
Football is also very impor­tant to P.W. residents. 
"There is a lot of passion about our football team here in PW," said Bruno. 
According to freshman quar­ter-back, Leslie Schmidt, "We had a really great season ,,. [though we wereJ upset that it's been cut shorter than usual." 
Though P.W. will be losing some key players this year, they are confident that inner-hall football will remain an impor­tant part of their dorm experi­ence. 
Perhaps the most unique way the Weasels let loose is their annual skydiving trip. Every spring a group of 15-25 girls heads out for a day of tandem skydiving, 
"For a lot of girls it's their first jump, but they keep coming back every year," said senior 
R.A. Andrea Conzalez, who felt that it was a very important bonding experience for the ,vomen of PW. 
And what about their claim that "West is best'"? 
"We do have a fun-loving rivalry with PE," said Bruno, "but we really do respect each other." 
Pasquerilla East 
The Pasq uerilla East Pyros may share a name with P.W., but they do a good job of distin­guishing themse-lves from their twin dorm. 
They were also founded in 1981, ·with the help Frank and Sylvia Pasquerilla, and they too find themselves set off in Mod Quad. But ultimately, they feel their level of spirit and devotion of hospitality separates them and sets them a notch above PW. 
As a 
freshman 
Hell" will hope­

"We are notorious for our
in PE. 
fully become an 

Frankie hospitality. " annual one.Beecroft 
"We're tryinghas appre­to use the dance

Liza Villaruz
ciated 
this year to startboth. "The PERA a new tradition,
girls here and we hope it are really sticks." saidfun," said 

sophomore Lindsay Terifay, who Beecroft, "and everyone is really 
also happens to be PE's hall
welcoming and friendly," clerk.

Even as a freshman, Beecroft 

PE also holds an annual 
feels the strength of the Pym's "Pyrolympics" in which sections pride. 

compete in various athletic com­
"We have a tremendous 

petitions.
amount of spirit," said Erin 

The event kicks off with theFischer, a senior RA in PE, "and symbolic running of the torch. 
that makes known on campus," during which the women of P.E. 

Rectress Sister Mary 

dress up in crazy outfit<; and run Mueninghoff makes a special across campus to the front steps effort to promote her "inclusion of the Dome, waving Sparky, the clause," a dictum within P.E. 
PE mascot who is a papermachethat allows any and all campus lit match. 
groups to meet in Pasquerilla 'The Pyrolympics are a greatEast, whether they have mem­opportunity for us all to get out bers that live there or not. 

there," said Villaruz. "We're a "Sister Mueninghoff always very spirited and also a verytries to make us a welcoming athletic dorm." 
dorm .,, we are notorious for And in regards to their chant: 

our hospitality" said Liza 

Who's the better Pasquerilla?
Villaruz, another one of PE's PE! PE!? 

senior RAs. 

Villaruz admitted that their 
This hospitality draws group rivalry with PW is really about 

after group of Notre Dame 

having fun. "There's nothing
Students and affiliates to PE, serious to it -of course there's 

including the participants of the a rivalry, it's very natural to yearly musical, who not only want to be the better dorm." 

practice in PE but are also spon ­So who exactly is the bettersored by the dorm. 

dorm? It's up to you to decide. 


page 12 The Observer. SPORTS Monday, November 6, 2000 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Wildcats survive wild ride with Wolverines 54-51 
Northwestern put up 654 got fun. Thomas scored on a Not so fast. As Thomas rum­11. He then hit Simmons on 
A..ociatcd Prcss 

yards on 90 plays against 1-yard run, but the conversion bled through a hole, the cross over the middle. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

TICKETS WANTED NO FOOTBALL TKTS 289-9280 SELLING ND FOOTBALL TKTS 251-1570  I NEED TWO BC TICKETS! MY PARENTS ARE COMING! WILL PAYI CALL 284-43341 WEQLL TALK! NO FOOTBALL TIX WANTED AM. ­232-2378 P.M. -288-2726 ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE A.M. -232-2378  NEED TWO BOSTON COLLEGE G.A.OS. PLEASE CALL MANYARD AT 1-800-638-6963, X 6093. CALL WILL BE RETURNED ASAP. 2 ND/USC TIX+ AIRFARE! GOTO alumnind.edu/-ndc_satx I need one G.A, ticket for B.C. game. Please call Erin 4-4190.  Locally based racing publication in need of web design to help to improve and maintain present sites. Strong graphic design ability a must. For more info, call 277-0033. WANTED: FORMER ISLI PARTICI­PANTS TO FACILITATE UPCOM­ING CONFERENCE ON 11/18/00. "RUDY" WILL BE THE GUEST SPEAKER. CALL JIM HART AT 277-1599 OR DR.LOMBARDO AT  FOR RENT ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ email:mmmrentals@aol.com 232-2595 GREAT APT. FOR RENT FOR BC  PERSONAL Impress potential employers. Keep in contact with friends and rel­atives. Student business cares are NOW available at THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center  
P M. ­288-2726  I NEED BC TIX. 272-6306.  THECCE.  WEEKEND!  Phone 631-COPY  

VICTORY TKTS BUY'SELL 'TRADE ND FOOTBALL 232-0964 www.v1ctorytickels.com  PAYING $50 EACH FOR ND VS BOSTON COLLEGE TICKETS. 219 289-8048.  SD GAME TICKET, PERFERABL Y IN STUDENTS SECTION, DESIRED TO BE BE PURCHASED BY CURRENT HIGH SCHOOL  FOR SALE  Turtle Creek Apt. for rent BC week­end, Sleeps 4 comfortably, parking for one car, contact adipaola@nd.edu  WORK THE POLLS ELECTION DAY, NOV.7 6AM-6PM PAY $75  
BUY/SELL ND TICKETS 273-3911  Need 1 Ticket For ND vBC 247-0965  SENIOR AND PROSPECTIVE ND OR SMC STUDENT, ENTERING FALL 01, WILL BE VISITING BOTH  #1 Spring Break 2001 -Cancun, Mazatlan, Acapulco, Jamaica, Florida & s Padre Reliable TWA  HOUSE FOR LEASE 7/01 4/5 bedrm. 3 blocks to campus. 773-486-8822  YOU MUST BE 18YRS OLD, A RESIDENT OF ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, IN , AND A REGIS­ 
ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED A.M. -232-2378 P M. ­288-2726  WANTED ND FOOTBALL TKTS 289-9280  SCHOOLS BC WEEKEND_ PLEASE CALL ERIN GRIFFIN (313)822-3263  flights. Best Prices. Earn $$$ or FREE trips-call tor details• 1 800 SURFS UP WWW studentex­lllll~~ ~Qm  hotel available for Nebraska game 9/8 9/9 Call rich 917-946-1800  TEREDVOTER.IFYOUARE INTERESTED, CALL JOHN COURT AT VOTERS REGISTRA· TION, 235-9530 For Rent  
~  ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE AM. ­232-2378 PM. ­288-2726 PAYING $50 EACH FOR ND VS. BOSTON COLLEGE TICKETS. 219 289-8048. Need 1 Ticket For NDv BC 247-0965 Lost and Found WANTED ND FOOTBALL TKTS 289-9280 SELLING ND FOOTBALL TKTS 251-1570 VICTORY TKTS BUY'SELL'TRADE ND FOOTBALL 232-0964 www victorytickets com BUY/SELL ND TICKETS 273-3911  SELLING ND FOOTBALL TKTS 251-1570 VICTORY TKTS BUY'SELL'TRADE ND FOOTBALL 232-0964 www victorytickets.com BUY/SELL ND TICKETS 273-3911 NO FOOTBALL TIX WANTED AM. ­232-2378 P M_ ­288-2726 ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE A.M. -232-2378 P M. ­288-2726 PAYING $50 EACH FOR ND VS. BOSTON COLLEGE TICKETS. 219 289-8048. Need 1 Ticket For ND vBC 247-0965  Lost & FouND FOUND TREK BIKE in parking lot one week ago. CALL MATT 4-4894 LOST on campus at Stanford game 1 1 /2 inch thick gold bracelet REWARD call Carol at 312-946­1800. FOUND lronman Triathlon watch on Thursday night between Lafortune and Nieuwland Science Hall. Man's watch with black, gray, and orange coloring. Gall Steph at 4-1675. WANTED International publication based in Granger has opening for assistant editor. Writing and grammar skills necessary. Knowledge of motor-sports a bonus. For more informa­tion call 277-0033.  Spring Break 2001 E!ook group of 15 and GO FREEi Book before Nov. 3 for FREE Meals! Visit us at sunsplashtours.com or call tor tree info @ 1-800-426-7710 94 Mitsubishi Galant Black/Sunroof/195k $1950 obo Call (219) 634-0849 1993 Ford Explorer (2 door) Manual 4-wheel drive 66,000 miles call: 784-8303 or 219-232-5557 CAR FOR SALE: 1991 Pontiac Lemas LE, 2D, Mileage: 77,000 Phone 273-6056; email !![!Jem,1 ~mi e!lu PHONE CARDS $20 1558 MIN. CALL 284-5145 or :258-4805 '95 Hondo Civic EX, red, moonroot, 5 spd 52k mi., $8950, call 1-6953  That Pretty Place, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418· 9487. Students Wanted! Alum-owned 2stry 5-6 bdrm, 2 bath New: carpet, appliances, washer-dryer, furnace-roof, & Security. Huge yard. 1 blk N. of Club 23. $1375 inc. until. Call Jason 240­0322. NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND. GREAT AREA. 277-3097. 2520 sq. ft. home for sale or lease to buy in Knoltwood. Moving. $174k. 277-7992 3,4 $ 6 BDRM HOMES. FURN. NOW & 2001-02. 272-6306  I need 5 Boston College tickets Please call 274-0829 show your support you're in my prayers, hon. keep your chin up girls don't look now, but the Irish are about ready to crack the top 10. who would have thought? looking forward to today's bes rank­ings. dawg hockey, tryouts start soon, bring your white tuxedo let's get on that internet thing. everybody gel out and vote on tuesday. tara, way to come through. you're a champ.  

EVANSTON, Ill. 
The victory at Wisconsin came when the Badgers were short-handed. Michigan State? Turns out, the Spartans weren't all that good. And ral­lying to beat Minnesota? llardly a Big Ten powerhouse. 
For all those who doubted No. 12 Northwestern -and yes, there were plenty of you -this one's for you. 
Just try to play down this victory. a 54-51 shootout over Michigan on Saturday. That'd be the same Michigan with the storied tradition, the winged helmets and the 11 national titles. 
"WOOO-YEAJI!" linebacker Kevin Bentley screamed as students flooded the field after the game and tried to bring down the north goal post. "It's great!'' 
Northwestern (7-2, 5-1 Big Ten) jumped nine spots in the poll to No. 12 with the victory. while Michigan (6-3. 4-2) dropped eight spots to No. 20. 
"Because of our history, they really see us as a novelty. We feel like everybody's just waiting for us to lose,", Northwestern running back Damien Anderson said earlier in the week. 
That's why beating Michigan was oh, so sweet. A perennial powerhouse, Michigan leads the conference with 39 Big Ten titles. Since 1966, Northwestern had managed to beat the Wolverines just twice. 
But this was no fluke. 
Michigan. They scored on 10 of their 14 possessions. 
"I thought they would score, coming into the game," Michigan coach Lloyd Carr said. "But I saw them almost scoring at will." 
Equally stunning was Northwestern's balance. The Wildcats rushed for 332 yards and passed for 322. Anderson had 268 yards and two touch­downs on 31 carries, the sec­on d-h ig hcst outing of his career. 
Kustok passed for two touchdowns and ran for two more. Simmons caught 12 passes for 124 yards. 
Michigan put up some gaudy numbers of its own, gaining 535 yards on 81 plays. Anthony Thomas ran for 199 yards and three scores. and David Terrel! caught nine passes for 117 yards and three TDs. 
Drew Henson was 23-of-35 for 312 yards. Marquise Walker caught nine passes for 134 yards. 
"To play that well offensive­ly and not win it is disappoint­ing," Carr said. "Especially with the championship on the line." 
Michigan scored on its first four possessions as it jumped out to a 28-10 lead. But Northwestern quickly rallied, scoring on seven straight pos­sessions to take a 46-45 lead on Tim Long's 41-yard field goal with 12: 30 left in the game. 
That's when things really 
Simmons leaped high in the air after he caught the pass. almost looking like he was going to dunk the ball through the goal posts. and the first sellout crowd at Ryan Field since 1998 went into a frenzy. 
As time expired, the fans poured onto the field, sur­rounding the players in the north end zone. 


attempt failed and Michigan was left to sit on a 51-46 lead with 8:34 still to play. 
The Wildcats gave the Wolverines a scare with 1 :38 left, but Anderson dropped a sure 12-yard touchdown pass when he lost the ball in the lights at the goal line. 
"I felt the game was won," Terrell said. 
Wt 
:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;: 
;;;;~;;;;:i;;:;:;:::::: 
~~;~~~;~f;:~;;~~~;~;~; 
/\fail 
:: ~:,~1:~lilf~111~[-~ll.l~6ll11~1'p;::,\i\i(i:i 
/:i@!Jif ::::i'.//\:~/f;~:\;:Jf!)'.\;iiGtif(;;;\J?'.)tifi/)i}U/\>>=::::::::= 


Northwestern safety Sean Wieber got his hand on the ball and poked it free. The ball dropped to the ground and cornerback Raheem Covington jumped on it, giving the Wildcats another chance. 
Kustok connected with Anderson and Teddy .Johnson on quick hitches. moving Northwestern to the Michigan 
Monday, November 6, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL PLAYOFFS 
Whirlwinds wipe out Wild Wolllen, Ducks defeat CriIDe 
By IAUREN CONTI and SUSAN CARPENTER 
Sports Writers 
The Welsh Whirlwinds contin­ued their undefeated season on Sunday, beating thr Walsh Wild Women 16-0 in the semifinal round of the women's interhall playoffs. 
The decisive shutout. however, simply wasn't enough for the title-hungry No. 1 seeded Whirlwinds. 
"We could have played a lot better," said coach Casey Bouton. "We didn't execute as well as we have in the past." 
The Wild Women managed to throw off the Welsh defensr early in the game with a new and unusual offensive formation. 
"It wasn't like anything we've ever played against before," said Welsh captain Maria Feilmeyer. "And we had a couple of mis­takes because of it. But our defense caught on pretty quick after that." 
Walsh stuck with its character­isticallv strong defense. however, despite missing senior safety and punter Courtney Schaefer. 
"I think [the defense] played solid. but I'd say we were affect­ed by the fact that Courtney was out of town. She's a really experi­enced player," said sophomore substitute punter Karina Mayorga. 
The Wild Women still managed to hold the game scoreless until late in the second half. largely due to lineman Angela Polsinelli, who batted down a Rak pass and had several key tackles. 
"Walsh had a really good defensive line today, especially Polsinelli," Bouton said. 
Though Welsh may have taken a little while to gather its off en ­sive momentum, by its second possession, they were mo,ing the ball effectively with nearly every pass. With 1:25 remaining in the half, a 15-yard pass by Rak con­nectrd with running back .Jen Grubb, who ran it in to put Welsh up on the board. The Whirlwinds successfully completed the ensu­ing two-point conversion to bring the score to 8-0. 
Despite keeping up the solid defensive play throughout the second half. the Wild Women were unable to stop the Whirlwinds. and couldn't seem to move the ball comparatively on offense. 
Walsh seemed to be on the move when Alison Troy inter­cepted a Rak pass and ran it up to Walsh's 20-yard line. 
"We'd been saying all day long that we needed to get a turnover," said Melissa Beiting, Walsh captain. "Our safety and our corners were right there the whole game. we just needed to get a hand on it. Alison really stepped up." 
Walsh then passed to receiver Kay Scanlan. who broke away for a 60-yard run that brought the ball up to about one foot from goal. The Wild Women were unable to capitalize. however, as Welsh's defense thwarted attempt after attempt to score. Finally, an interception by Welsh's Colleen O'Connor ended the Wild Women's chances at a touchdown. 
"They were just a better team than us today," said Walsh of the game. 
Howard 25, Off-Campus 0 
The underdog triumphe~ again Sunday as Howard defeated Off­Campus 25-0. 
The Oucks' offense led by quar­terback Jill Veselik, dominated throughout the game. getting the ball in the end zone by capitaliz­ing on turnovers and excellent field position. On the second drive of the game, after an inter­ception by Jill Harris, Veselik elected to hold on to the football and run in for a touchdown to put her team up first. 
Elizabeth Klimcck nabbed a pass for an interception to set her team up for their next touch­down. Ten yards out, the Crime's aggressive defense looked as though they were going to drop Veselik for a huge loss in yardage. The athletic Veselik evaded their tackles and connect­ed with receiver Vanessa Nero to add another six points. The pass for the extra point was tipped off of the fingers of one Duck receiv­er and into the hands of Elizabeth Klimek to put Howard up 13-0 at halftime. 
In the second, Off-Campus began their series deep in their own territory. Jill Harris grabbed her second interception of the day and ran back from the five­yard line for the touchdown. 
The Howard defense shut down the Off-Campus offense time and again, while the Duck otfonse amassed 25 unanswered points. Howard coach Paul Guzzetta credited quarterback Jill Veselik for leading their team to the win. 


"She's tough as nails," Guzzetta said. "She came out and had an excellent game." 
With three interceptions, the defense was a powerful force to be reckoned with. "The defense came up huge today," said coach Brad Untiedt. "They came up with big plays that gave us the momentum." 
"It was a whole team effort on both sides of the ball," Veselik said. 

For next week's game, she said that they are going to continue to practice hard, but they are not going to change their general strategy. 
"[We are going to] go with what works." she said. 
Off-Campus coach Paul Diamantopoulos summed up the game as "the first time all season when the ball didn't go our way." 
Coach Dan Laughlin agreed. 
"They [Howard] played a good game," he said. "The ball bounced their way." 

Don't forget to tell your far,r-.ily and friends to bring their jackets this weekend for the Boston College 
g a ,,.-. e !  
Bring your jacket to one of the various  
Project War1nth sites or1 c,1mpus and  
receive a  cot.1pon t~or a  25% discount  :S  C>  C:::  I  .A.  L  
on a  ne~l GEAR For Sports®  c::: c::> 1'-..1 <:::. E:  ~ .,..... S:.  
.  jacket at tl1e Han-i.mcs Bookstore!  

Give aW'"ay your coa~--­ancl Sl-l,A~E Tl-#E Mf'ARNITI-I. 

..--------------------------~ --­
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 6, 2000 
Hoops 
continued from page 20 
this year." 
Premier's coaches and 
players would have to 
agree. The team, com­
prised of former college 
players, played three 
games prior to Sunday, 
losing to Pittsburgh and 
Bowling Green and defeat­
ing Central Michigan. They 
play four more games in 
the next seven days. The 
two-week tour ends on 
Sunday against Eastern 
Illinois. 
Last year, Premier led 
the Irish by six points with 
three minutes left before 
Notre Dame pulled away ai 
the end. 
"They're the best we 
played," Chosy said. "Bar 
none." 
Thanks in no small part to Joyce. who along with Hatay and Ivey will be looked on to provide a con­sistent p!lrimeter gamr. to help Riley. 
/\ native of Topeka. Kansas. Joyce attended Notre Dame's summer camp· in 1998. She enjoyed her visit and returned sev­eral times before commit­ting to the Irish in June of 1999. 
"She is very smart," McGraw said of Joyce. "And very poised." 
Joyce was the first play­er off the bench on Sunday after Hiley's first foul with 
14:54 left. She missed four of her first five3-point attempts but nailed a trio of 3s in the second half. 
Joyce also logged 27 minutes on the night, the second-highest total on the team. 
"It's completely different from high school," Joyce said. "It's an adjustment but hopefully it will be a smooth adjustment." 
Judging from her open­ing performance, there's no need for Joyce to worry. 
Use your voice. Vote Tuesday. 
UNIVERSITY 01" NOTR.I'. DAME INTERNATIONA.LSTIJDY PROGRAMS JOI SECURITY BUILDING Notre Dame. indi¦¦ 1 46'56 T: 631-!lSll P•iti '31-571 J 

Senior All-American Ruth Riley (00) goes up for a shot in Notre Dame's exhibition game victory Sunday. It was the first match of 
the Irish season. 
irJi~
onlyat-=-~ 
Sminutes~
fr.om 01JTP0.,. 
Camm.ts s ors 
r ~1n•vwy-
Call 259-1000 for more details 

TOLEDO, SPAIN 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Bridget Green, Assistant Director International Study Programs 
Tuesday November 7, 2000 
4:45 PM 102 DeBartolo 
Appliculon, •nilable www/nd.edu/--iotlstud Application Deadline: Deeember I, 2000 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

SO MUCH TO CHOOSE FROM ... 
Milligan 
continued from page 20 
a three-year starter. Bethel 
achieved a No. 1 ranking in 
the NCAAA in 1997. 

Milligan has competed on several club teams and the Indiana Olympic Development Program state team. Ile also has a 102­11-7 coaching record at the premier club level for the Jr. 1-rish Soccer Club. 
'Tm going to do another year of coaching club soc­cer. and I am going to play a lot too," Milligan said. "This definitely won't be an end to coaching." 
Plans arc in the works to set up a recruiting commit­tee, which will include some of the players, to select a new coach. 
'Tm going to open this up 
and advertise it," Kachmarik said. "We're going to do a thorough job. I really want to keep this positive.'' 
According to Klink, Kachmarik already has a list of possible candidates for the Saint Mary's soccer coach. 
"She's got some namns in already," Klink said. "There will be a group of girls on the committee who will contribute to the final decision." 
Part of the urgency to find a new coach is tht1 fact that the soccer team will now be playing during the spring, and is allownd nine practices under a coach's supervision after spring break. 
"[Milliganl's put us ln the right direction," Kachmarik said. "Now I'm going to find someone to take us to the next level." 



ONE SOLUTION. 

BE INFORMED 
·RECSPORTS-NEWS 
(LISTSERV) 
PROVIDING INFORMATION ABOUT: INTRAMURAL PROGRAMS FITNESS CLASSES INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAMS CLUB SPORTS SPECIAL EVENTS RECREATIONAL FACILITIES 
SUBSCRIBE AT THE RecSports WEB SITE: 
www.nd.edu/,..,,recsport 

THE SUMMER SERVICE PROJECT 
. Devote. 8 weeks to the. service of those in need 
. Choose from over 120 sites ocross the United S-tates 
. Earn 3 Theology Credits (with possible crosslists) 
. Receive a $1900 Tuition Scholarship with the option for an additionul $1000 Americorps Scholarship 
. Establish valuable contacts with Notre Dame Alumni 
APPLICATIONS DUE NOVEMBER 27, 2000 FOR STUDENTS STUDYING ABROAD THIS SPRING FINAL DEADLINE FOR ALL APPLICATIONS -FEBRUARY 7, 2001 
Informational Meetings at the Center for Social Concerns: Wednesday, November 8, 2000 7:00 PM Thursday, November 30, 2000 7:00 PM 
Monday, November 6, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
MEN'S INTERHALL PLAYOFFS 
Knott knocks Sorin out of playoffs 6-0 

By JOHNNY LEITNER 
Sports Writer 
When Knott and Sorin met in last year's interhall foot­ball championship game, their combined offenses scored 30 points. In Sunday's rematch, they racked up a grand total of six. However, the end result was the same ­the Juggs of Knott Hall tri­umphed 6-0 in a hotly con­tested affair. 
Both teams felt that the game was an intense and hard-hitting affair. 
"We expected a battle ­and we were evenly matched," said Sorin captain Mike Crowe. "The small things made the difference." 
Knott captain Pat Virtue 


agreed. 
"It was low-scoring like a lot of playoff g a m e s between two tough teams," he said. 
The first half was char­acterized by turnovers and penalties . After the numerous posession changes. the half ended with no touch­

0. 
Crowe saw the defensive performances and turnovers as the crucial aspects of the 
game. 
"The defense really stepped it up and gave us some good opportunities -we just didn't make them count," he said. 
Sorin 's offense took the field with five minutes remaining, but was stymied by a Knott defense that could sense a sixth consecutive shutout in the making. 
Knott regained possession. On their first play from scrim­mage, Otter defender Jim Vavricek sustained a poten­tially serious injury to the neck. Action shifted to a nearby field while Vavricek awaited an ambulance. Vavricek was taken to the emergency room at St. 
· "We were able to J o e ' s Regional
capitalize offgood 
Medical

field position, and our 
Center. He defense stood its was treated and released
ground and played 
Sunday.

great -especially in 
Virtue 

pass coverage. " believed that Knott's victo­ry was the
Pat Virtue 
product of Knott captain consistent 
downs scored. The teams went to halftime with the score 0-0. 
"In a game like this -it was hard to keep momentum going," Crowe said. 
Strong defensive play by both teams resumed in the second half. Again, turnovers were common in the second half and Sorin had a key fumble at the outset of the fourth quarter. 
Knott maintained posses­sion thanks to a fumble recovery by Ro-Jand Newrones and moved 25 yards en route to a one-yard touchdown gal­lop by John Bisanz. A missed extra point left the score at 6­
To All Arts & Letters Students: 

Come Eat and Shoot the Breeze With Your Professors!!! Academic Luncheons Will Be Held This Tuesday and 

Thursday From 12:00-1:30 In the SDH Hospitality Room. See You There!!! 
defensive 
play and 
oportunistic 

offense . 
"We were able to capitalize off good field position, and our defense stood its ground and played great -especially in pass coverage." 
Virtue thought that the key performers for the Juggs were the offensive linemen, who performed well after a tough game against Zahm, and John Bisanz, who played for Virtue after he twisted his ankle. 
"John is a great athlete and scored our only touchdown," said Virtue, who added that his ankle would be fine for the upcoming championship 
hn.11t 
Sorin will lose Crowe to graduation this year, as well as coach Fred Faber. 
"Fred has been the back­bone and brains of this team, and we have to give him a -lot of credit," said Crowe, who mentioned that Faber was unable to be on the field this year due to previous injuries. "He's been responsi­ble for success­fully preparing us -I think of him as being a player-coach." 
"Our overall team effort was very good, and we've had a good season," added Crowe. 


Big East Woi:nen's. Soccer Champ1onsh1p 

page 16 Monday, November 6, 2000 
Huskies' own goal gives Irish sixth-straight conference title 

Monday, November 6, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S INTERHALL PLAYOFFS 
Keenan outlives Dillon in double overtime 11-8 
captain Jason Visner. "We could scoreless for the next three any points on the board. 

By MATT CASSADY 
move the ball, but we always quarters and throughout over­In the second quarter, the Sports Writer 
seemed to run out of time. I give time. Knights received a break when a their defense credit, they didn't "The preparation we did was Dillon punt went for negative The Keenan Knights held off allow us to do the things we really important," said sopho­yardage deep in Big Red territo­the Dillon Big Red 11-8 in double have been doing [in previous more safety Andy Groebner. ry. After starting its drive from overtime to move into the inter­games]." "We saw on film that Visner was the Dillon 11-yard line, Keenan hall football championship game. Dillon did manage to put the the key to their offense. We was able to pull even on the arm 
The two teams had met once first points on the board. The Big thought if we could take him out of sophomore quarterback Billy already this season, with Dillon Red took an 8-0 lead into the at the line, it would force them Ellsworth, who was pleased with prevailing 16-0 in week two. second quarter after Visner to do things differently." his team's execution in the Things were different this time rumbled nearly 60 yards to get Apart from the long first quar­rematch. as the previously explosive Big Dillon deep into Keenan territo­ter run, Keenan's game plan "We worked all week on get­Red offense was held in check by ry. worked to perfection. The ting our assignments down," he a staunch Knights defense. Those eight points however, Knights allowed Dillon to move said. "We moved the ball on 
"We just weren't able to get would be all the Big Red could the ball, but not with the effi­Dillon in the first game, but we anything big going," said senior muster as the Knights held them ciency or speed necessary to put were just never able to put any­thing together. Dillon is a very good team defensively, so we still · had a tough time putting things ;1 together, but we were able to get ~ some points on the board so we 
·· were happy with that." The only scoring opportunity 
in the second half occured when ,1 Dillon's Rick Hasty forced ai Keenan fumble inside the Big 
European Area 
Studies Program 
f Red 10-yard line that rolled out of the endzone for a turnover. This gave Dillon the ball at its 
Widen your horizons beyond the limits of individual disciplines through across-disciplinary perspective. Choose aEuropean Area Studies Concentration. 

Students participating in the European Area Studies Program must complete the following requirements: 
1. 
The student must take a least four area studies courses (12 hours) distributed over three different departments. These courses will not be counted toward other requirements. 

2. 
The student must take and pass at least two semesters of a European language or demonstrate proficiency in a European language. 

3. 
In the senior year, the student must complete a supervised area studies essay. The research and writing may be extended over a two semester period. Students must receive the approval of a faculty member to direct the essay. 


For more information and a list of classes, contact: 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies 
419 Flanner Hall (219) 631-5253 Director: Robert Wegs 
Announcing the 6th Annual Keough Summer Internships In Ireland 

The Keough Internship will include: 
l. Seven weeks' inte1·nship ( 18 June-3 August) 
2. 
Round trip airfare from the United States to Ireland 

3. 
Roo1n and board 4.Stipend 


All Notre Dame JUNIORS with a demonstrated interest in Irish Studies/Ireland are encouraged to apply. 
Applications available in the Keough Institute for Irish Studies 1146 Flanner Hall 
Applications due by Friday, 15 December 2000 

own 20-yard line. 
"We never got too down on ourselves after the fumble," said Keenan captain Herb Giorgio. "But it did force us into overtime where we were concerned about containing them from the 10­yard line." 
Giorgio's defense did hold on to give him the opportunity to win the game in the second over­time, after missing a 19-yard attempt in the first overtime. This time, he put the 38-yard kick through the uprights. 
"After that first kick [missed] my heart just dropped," said Groebner. "I didn't know what to think. I just had to get ready to play defense. I didn't know if I would get another shot. There was a lot of pressure because it means so much to the guys on the team. I am just glad I was able to make it the second time." 
After the winning kick, the would-be goat became the hero and Keenan had its ticket to Notre Dame Stadium and the interhall championship game. 


., ,::; ,-, ~'. , . f__,o 

~Jllll 2-1B 1001 
www.sunchase.com 
'l•800lSUNCHASE 
Monday, November 6, 2000
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
VOLLEYBALL 

Irish sweep weekend matches, rise to 21-5 on season 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame volleyball earned its 21st win of the sea­son and 10th conference vic­tory following this weekend's games over 
Boston College, N o r t h Carolina a n d Providence. 
"This was an impor­tant week 

for us to Girton 
g a i n momentum going into the end of the sea­son. We showed some pretty solid play throughout the weekend, in all the matches," 
said sophomore Keara Coughlin. "Our ball control was consistently good throughout the weekend. It was a very positive weekend." 
The frish topped Boston College f'riday in a three­game match. 
"Everyone on the team par­ticipated in the win over Boston College,'' Coughlin said. 
The Irish swept the Tarheels in three games (15-6, 15-13, 15-4). Notre Dame jumped into the match to grab an 11-1 lead in game one before allowing the Tarheels an opportunity to catch up. North Carolina struck back harder in game two, tying the game 
They've been getting votes throughout the year to be in the lop 25. Because we came out so strong against them in the beginning and because we kept our intensity through the three games. we played at a lcve'l that we haven't seen from our team in quite a few assists. 

"Our blocking was not as strong against Providence because they have a different style of attack. We were able to pick up our ball control and that let us keep our level of play high enough to win the three games," said Coughlin. 
The Irish will return to non­conference action on Tuesday as they face St. Louis in its last home regular season match at 7 p.m. 
"Our senior night is on Tuesday and we need to keep our high level of play to beat St. Louis," Coughlin said. 
"Against North Carolina, we Carol'ina was awesome. We did a good job keeping the fed off of them." momentum on our side. Our The Irish completed the offense was very strong and weekend with a three-game our communication was close win against Providence on to the best it's been this sea­Sunday (15-5, 15-10, 15-9). son." said Coughlin. After earning game one, the 
Senior  Irish strug­ 
Christi Girton  gled  as  
led the Irish against North Carolina with 17 kills, eight  ..This was an important week for us to gain momentum going into  Providence grabbed an early 9-3 game two  
digs and two blocks while  the end ofthe season. "  lead before Notre Dame  
classmate  rallied  for  
Denise Boylan  Keara Coughlin  12  points  
racked up 41 assists and  sophomore  and the win. Bomhack  
nine  digs.  led  Notre  
Junior Marcie  Dame  with  
Bomhack  14  kills  in  

added 16 kills and five blocks. the match while Girton fin­"The match against North ished with 10 kills. Freshman Carolina was huge for us. Kristen Kinder added 21 

One Night Wiffleball 
Wednesday, November 8 

RSRC-Court I 
4 on 4 

Register your team at 
the RecSports office 
Space is limited 

Deadline to register is 
Tuesday, November 7, 5:00pm 
or until full 

For more information, please call the RecSports Office 
at 1-6100 



Student Workers Needed 
To help assist other students using the temporary DART registration system at the Registration Center, G 184 Hesburgh Library from 
th 
November 8 through December l" 
Hours: 9:00 am co 5:00 pm 
Dates: 
November 8, 9, 10, 14, 15, 16, 20, 21, 28, 29, 30, December I 
We need student help throughout the day... you pick your rime you are available 
Please Contact: Arlene Vogt, Assistant Registrar, 105 Main Building, Registrar's Office 631-6050 


RETIREMENT INSURANCE1 MUTUAL FUNDS TRUST SERVICES TUITION FINANCING 
TIAA-CREF provides financial solutions to last a lifetime. Ca/lus9or\ 
afree ' 
'""'"':~·· .· 
Building your assets is one thing. Figuring out 

With TIAA-CREF, 
how those assets can provide you with a 

you can receive:* 
comfortable retirement is quite another. 

• Cash withdrawals At TIAA-CREF, we can help you with both. You • Systematic or fixed-period payments** can count on us not only while you're saving and • Interest-only payments planning for retirement, but in retirement, too. • Lifetime income payments** 
• A combination of these 
"Guaranteed by our claims-paying ability.
Just call us. We'll show you how our flexible range of payout options can meet your retirement goals. 
With TIAA-CREF, you benefit from something few 
other companies can offer: a to1al commitment to 
your financial well-being, today and tomorrow. 
'Note: Availability may depend on your employer's retirement 

CREF GROWTH ACCOUNT1  
26.70%  27.87%  26.60%  
1 YEAR AS OF 6/30/00  5 YEARS 6/30/00  SIN( EINC EPTIOM 4/29/94  

. •. .. .. ....i,.,,~,.. 
plan provisions contract. Under federal tax law, withdrawals 
prior to age 59½ may be subject to restrictions, and may also be 

CREF Growth is one of many CREF variable annuities. 
subject to a 10% additional tax. Additional restrictions also 
apply to the TIAA Traditional Annuity. 

1--------------------------,----------------------­
ii 
Ensuring the future ! ! 1.800.842.2776
I 
I
for those who shape it.'M 

www.tiaa-cref.org 
For more complete information on our siicurities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest 1. Due to current market volatility, our securities products' performance today may be less than shown above. The invest­ment results shown for CREF Growth variable annuity reflects past performance and are not indicative of future rates of return. These returns and the value of the principal you have invested will fluctuate, so the shares you own may be more or less than their original price upon redemp• tion. • TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the CREF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities • Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements. • TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities. • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. 
• Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed,© 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03 
Monday, November 6, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
BVT ALL THE OLDER
HOW WOULD YOO LIKE TO TALI!'. 
ENGINEERS ARE BITTER
TO THE FRESHMAN ON THE JOYS 
AND JI\DED. THERE JV5
OF ENl>INEERING AT OUR OPEN 
ISN'T ANYBOCY THAT
HOl/SE? SORRY, l' M AN ART 
COULD POSSIB!.Y MAKE
MAJOR I THINK YOlJ 
ENGINEERING 50VND
NEED AN ENGINEER 
INTERESTING 

Fox TROT 
M'I', M"(-SoMEo~E l WAS E1LEEN J'ACo8Sot.fS SAY No
6 

HAS A SPRING IN PARTNER ON ovR CLASS 
I ~ \ 
~

H1S STEP. 10\J FIELD TRIP ToDAY .' 

I BET! 
r, ,, 
I 
Si'

-1. r~ 
I 
i j 
~ 
MoRE. N0,N0­
I HAVE To
I SAY MoRE~ 
'-._..:-l/1 
I 
TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 
... IN EXCHANC:,E FoR ,._ 
CHARl'ZARD PoKEMoN CARD! TiiAT0S WHY I't'1 SMIUNG! Do You HEAR ME?? MoM?? 
(o"'1E. BACk HERe,
\ . 
TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 

-7 
-

_, 
A reason to never let your roommate cut your hair 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Winter forecast 64 Driving range 1 Peanut, in the 33 On guard peg South 34 Explosive stuff 65 Calendar units 7 Kitten's 36 Hardly neatniks 66 Stagecoach plaything robber
37 Dress witti a 11 Magazine with a flared bottom fold-in back 
39 Uncles, in Cuba DOWN 

cover 
40 Doctors' org. 1 "Naked Maja" 

14 Richly decorated 
41 Les Etats-_ painter

15 Eminently 
42 Base stealer Lou 2 Spoken

draftable 
43 Darned 3 Give the 

16 Intense anger 
_-over
47 Novelists Ferber 

17 Gab 
and O'Brien 4 Pastry shops 

19 TV room 
48 Feedbag fill 5 When the 

20 Aweather's 
49 Town square French fry

opposite 
51 Make a goof 6 Seized again 

21 Winning tic-tac­toe row 
52 Radio operators 7 Toy that goes "around the 
56 Captain's journal 

22 College 
world"

application part 57 Important 
8 Santa_, Calif.
person 

knight 61 Bird that gives a 9 _ room (place to play games) 24 Piece next to a 
26 Core group hoot 28 Sound from a 62 French 101 verb 10 In an unprotected
moving train 63 Aviator Earhart 
manner 11 Torso ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 zone 
S N U F F B O X S M U D G E 13 Contradict 
H A R D L I N E L O N E L V 18 Oxen connector U p ---+---+-+-I E 23 Lanka s T r.:-t-=-t-:-:-1'=-:t-;:;i s s 25 Halloween's mo. 
H I T O 26 Shade of blue E 27 Big garden size 
..,..,.+-,+,,..+,..,+,=-1 28 Ascend 
=+.,.,.+-,+,-,-29 Top-notch lawyer 30 Chubby R ..,..,.+-:-+-,+,..,+,=-1 Checker's dance 
A -4-,-4-,,-4=-1,-..,.... ---+..,..+=1-E-1 31 Word repeated . _, before "Who's V ..,..,.+=+-=+-=-D there?" F L U T E R H E R I T A E 32 Health resort 0 V E R D O T E A M A K E R 35 Sound of R E L I S T S T H E L E N S disappointment 

Puzzle by Peter Gordon 
37 "My Way" songwriter 38 Commits perjury 39 Sanitation workers 41 Not specified 
42 Sandwich that usually contains mayo 
44 Axlike tool 
45 lime past 
46 It grows every 
time you get a 
shot 
49 Parcel of land 54 Early 12th­century date 
50 Actor Rob 55 Three-person
51 Meagerly card game
maintains, with 11out" 58 Actress Hagen 
59Weep
53 "_ Lang Syne" 60 Singer Sumac 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRIT1ES BORN ON THIS DAY: Sally Field, Glenn Frey, Maria Shriver, Mike Nichols, Ethan Hawke, Ray Conniff 
Happy Birthday: You will take the road less traveled this year. Your desire to be unique will lead to some interesting situations and should head you in a direction that brings you greater satisfaction. Don't be afraid to put yourself on the line and stand up for your beliefs. You will make a difference. Your numbers: 3, 12, 19, 27, 34, 39 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): So­cializing with co-workers will lead to a better working environment. Don't hesitate to mix business with plea­sure. Romantic encounters may be stressful. Look into lucrative finan­cial investments. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Self. improvement projects will be highly successful. Start that new diet, or proceed with the physical changes you've been contemplating. Don't force your will. Be a good listener. 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can make prosperous real estate deals or go ahead with home­improvement projects. Spend time with friends or children. Do some­thing active that will bring you self­satisfaction. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Get together with friends. Be receptive to the advances being made, and you will find yourself in a new love rela­tionship. Creative endeavors will be fruitful and satisfying. 00000 
LEO (July 23,Aug. 22): You should be able to make financial gains if you apply for a prominent position. You can form solid partner-
EUGENIA LAST 

ships or unions with individuals who will benefit your cause. 0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Social activities will lead to love. Go ahead with the physical changes you've been contemplating. Enlist the aid of co-workers to get an important pro­ject finished. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Take care of matters concerning gov­ernment agencies or large institu­tions. Don't let those you live with interfere with your work. Don't lend or borrow. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Get out and involved. New friendships will develop. You will be in a posi­tion to make changes that will lift your spirits and bring you greater self-confidence. 00000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't let your personal life inter­fere with your professional direction. You can make major gains if you talk to the right people. Make changes that will please those you live with. 
000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
You will receive help if you ask for it. Mix business with pleasure, and the result will be to your advantage. Travel will prove auspicious due to what you learn. 0000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Update your personal papers. Take care of any minor health problems. Business deals look favorable. You can increase your earning potential. 
000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Make sure you haven't neglected the one you love. Take time for special plans that will be sure to enhance the relationship. Plan to take a trip together. 000 · 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, sweet and lovable most of the time, but if there is something you want, you aren't likely to back down or give UF until you get it. You are strong-willed, but compassionate toward your loveil ones. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 2000 Universal i'Iess Syndicate 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

----------------------~--------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Obserwir an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
. 
Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
.

Name --------------------------­
Address -------------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
,­
Irish top Big East 

The Notre Dame women's soccer team remained undefeated by capturing the Big East Championship Sunday with a 1 -o win over Connecticut.
PORTS 


page 16 
Makinen 

O
THE page 20 BSERVER Monday, November 6, 2000 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Milligan surprises team by resigning as Belles' coach 
mainta·incd its 1999 sixth­Milligan took over, he led the resignation] is going to cause move this team forward. ButBy SARAH RYKOWSKI place finish in the MIAA after Belles to a 9-6-2 overall per­any problems." he has other things to do. lie 
Sports Wric,r 

its final match Oct. 28 against formance and sixth-place fin­Still, this situation was not is just going to move on to 
Hope College. The 2000 Belles ish in the conference. expected by either the players some of those." 
In a move that caught even slipped to 3-13-1 overall and While Milligan continues his or asked for by the depart­While he hasn't yet decided his team captains by surprise, 3-10-1 in the MIAA. education. the Belles are left ment. where he will earn his mas­Jason Milligan resigned his ''It was great that he had a without a coach. Current "We were all pretty ter's, Milligan said that he position as head coach of the positive attitude going assistant coach Jared shocked," Klink said. "Its was considering UCLA, among Belles soccer team Thursday. through this season." Belles llochstettler is assisting Saint going to take some getting other California schools. and 
"I was really contemplating tri-captain Jessica Klink said. Mary's athletic director Lynn used to" also schools in Texas. While this before the season even "We appreciate all his hard Kachmarik until the athletic Kachmarik was pleased he makes plans to study, started." Milligan said. "I've work with the team." department begins the with the improvement of the Milligan will continue to coach been around here for a long Milligan was the assistant process to find a coach, and Belles soccer program under at the club lnvel and he would time. and now I'm moving on coach for the Belles during the captains are also stepping Milligan. like to play more himself. to got my master's." the 1998 season. when the in to fill the void. "I am really thankful for Milligan is a 1998 graduatc of 
Milligan had just finished his Bellcs finished with a 6-10-2 "[Kach marik] is going to everything Jason did." Bethel College. where he was second season as head coach record overall and tied for take over recruiting," Klink Kachmarik said. "He really of Saint Mary's soccer. who fifth in the conference. When said. "I don't think [Milligan's worked very, very hard to see MILLIGAN/page 14 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Fresh01an Joyce plays like veteran in exhibition grune win 
By TIM CASEY Assiswn Sporn EJirur 
For the-first 20 minutes of Sunday night's season opener, Jeneka .Joyce played like a typical freshman. 
When she entered the game early in the second half. the 5-foot-9 Joyce show·ed she could be a key replacement for Danielle Green, last year's starting shooting guard. Joyce scored hall' of her team-high 16 points within a 3:07 span in the second half as Notre Dame defeated the Premier All-Stars 91­56 before an 


"We can do it at practice
announced before Riley crowd of [play without Riley]. went to the 3,249 at the bench for
Seeing it in a game situa­
Joyce Center. the rest of
tion when it really counts 
''I'm glad the game. they fell in is important. " " T h a t the second showed the half," said kind of
Muffet McGraw 
Joyce, who offense connected on 
Notre Dame coach 
just one of six shots in the 
!irst half. 
As are the rest of her team­mates. In the first of two exhi­bition games, all 12 Irish players saw action. The five starters (Huth Riley, Kelley Siemon. Ericka Haney. Alicia. Hatay and Niele lveyj scored in double figures. But the reserves, led by Joyce. pro­duced more than 1/3 of the team's offense [32 points!. 
"They're a special team." Premier assistant coach Paul Chosy said. "l didn't see any weaknesses." 
Hiley, the All-American ccn­tor, scored 12 points [on 5-of­5 shooting and 2-of-2 from the lino] and grabbed eight rPbounds in only 13 minutes. She committed two fouls in the first ten minutes and sat out the remainder of the first half. With Hiley on the bench, Premier closed to within four points [24-201 but the Irish held their opponents to nine points in the final eight min­utes. 
"We can do it at practice [play without Hiley]." head coach Muffet McGraw said. "Seeing it in a game situation when it really counts is important." 
Notre Dame began the sec­ond half with a 22-8 run and 
built a 69­
37 lead 
team we 
can be." 
McGraw said. "And the kind of domi­nating presence that Ruth has in the game." 
In the opening seven min­utes of the half, Riley had 10 points and power forward Siemon connected on two layups. 
Siemon, who came off the bench last year after starting as a freshman and sopho­more, scored 14 points, with the majority coming off of easy buckets in transition. 
"Later in the year it's going to be a lot harder getting those baskets," Siemon said. "But we're in great condition 
see HOOPS/page 14 

DUFFY MARIE ARNOUL Tffhe Observer Freshman guard Jeneka Joyce steps into role of graduated shooting guard Danielle Green. Joyce scored 16 points in Notre Dame's preseason victory over the Premier All-Stars 91-56 Sunday at the Joyce Center. 
vs. California AAU All-Stars Women's College Cup Saturday, 7:30 p.m. . Second round
SPORTS Mt It 

Saturday, TBA Cross country 
.,
NCAA District IV Championships 
ATA 
in Ypsilanti, Mich. 
al Boston College vs. Boston College 

Friday, TBA ~-:, Saturday, TBA 
Saturday, 3:30 p.m.
GLANCE ~ .~ 








