
Black box found 
Middle East peace talks end 
Search creu:s find the cockpit i•oice recorder llnother Arab-Israeli peace initiative crumbled Friday
from /\laskan Airlines flight 261. 
Thursday but Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak was optimistic about a settlement.
WorldNation . page 5 
FEBRUARY 4, 
News . page 9 
2000 
THE 



VO[ XXXIII NO. 76 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Bender: SMC needs openness about sexuality 
By MOLLY McVOY an open environment," Bender of the Western view of sexuali­erosexual, often limits the dis­rizes as black and white when N~ws Writer said. ty, Bender said. She offered cussion or incompletely defines our society is full of grey," she Bender also addressed how background of how the behaviors and identities. "It's said. an open forum for discussion of Western culture defines sexual­sort of like the car dealer She offered examples of
Representing Saint Mary's 
sexuality and sexual orientation ity along with other cultures model of sexuality," she said. Indian cultures in which homo­
long-term goal of diversity, 
is necessary if a college is going who have defined it much dif­"Mixing and matching is not sexuality is not only accepted,
Margaret Bender spoke 
to survive and serve its student ferently. allowed." but deemed necessary. There
Thursday eVf'ning as part of the 
body effectively. Hender addressed the issue of Bender explained that the are also Native American cul­
College's identity weRk. 
"When it comes to sexuality. linking one's sexual orienta­Western culture interlinks bio­tures in which there are three 
.. In the long run. I believe any 
silence is not golden," Bender tionwith one's identity. She logical sexual gender and sexu­-not two -genders which
college will be unable to keep 
said. Open discussion on sexu­P.Xplained how the Western ality without leaving room for comprise society.
th11 progressive young faculty 
ality and varied ideas of its binary model of sexuality, man too much variation. "The prob­
that students look for without 
nature are not an inherent part or woman, homosexual or het-lem is that our culture catago-see BENDER/page 4 
Connolly named editor 
By FINN PRESSLY Assistant News Editor 
With two years ol' experience in The Observer sports depart­ment, Mike Connolly was elected editor in chief of' The Observer for the 2000-2001 year by a vote of the ncws­p aper s General B o a r d Thursday 
night. 
A sopho­more from Sparta, N.J.. Connolly llvrs in Dillon llall. I le is an American studies major and plans to pursue a career as a rPporter and possibly a news­paper editor. 
"I look forward to working with a talented and experienced staff," Connolly said. "I hope to build on tlrn high standards set f'or us by past Observer staff members." 
Connnolly joined The Observer staff his freshman year. lie has covenid t'oolball, women's soc­cer and fencing beats and has s,,,rved a~ an associate sports editor since spring 1999. 
In addition to his on-campus journalism experience. Connolly has written for the Michigan Football Weekly and the College Sports Writers' Network. 
"Mike will do an amazing job," said Michelle Krupa. the outgo­ing editor in chief. ''I've seen him give so mur.!1 ol' himself to this place. Ile understands The Observer's tradition of excel­lence and what makes it work. I'm proud to pass on this job to Mike." 
Connolly will assume the posi­tion after spring break. 


Basilica gets new look for new year 
By SCOTT HARDY News Writer 
With the installation of new carpet and a marble floor around the altar. the Basilica of the Sacred Heart is beginning 2000 in style. 
Wear and tear resulting from 207,000 visitors last year coupled with a lack of replacement pieces to patch stained areas necessitated the replace­ment of the carpet. Installing new carpet involved the removal of all the pews from the Basilica. It was necessary to map out the exact location of each pew before removal. 
The installation of the marble floor areas was made possible by a donation to the Basilica. The 
see BASIUCA/page 6 



A worker puts the finishing touches on the Basilica's marble floor. 

SSP celebrates 20th anniversary 
By KATE NAGENGAST NewsWrirer 
As students rushed to the Center for Social Concerns (CSC) last week to submit applications for Summer Service Projects (SSP), few may have realized the signif­icance of the event. This summer marks the 20th anniversary of the SSP pro­gram at Notre Dame. 
The SSP program has 
changed through the 20 years. Hesides a dramatic increase in participation, the program has also developed financially and. academically. Participants currently receive a $ l,700 tuition scholarship and three credits in theology for eight weeks of service. 
The project is typically in an area of geographic and academic interest for the students. Upon returning to campus in the fall. they fol­

low-up with discussion groups or a 24-hour retreat. 
"For the students, it is an intense eight weeks devoted almost totally to some social issue," said Sue Cunningham, director of the SSP program since 1986. "Whether it's pregnant teens, homeless men, neglected children, or any­thing else. it provides stu­dents with the chance to learn from the clients them­selves, their co-workers, [the alumni] ... really an entire community. That education is just priceless." . 
But this sophisticated ser­vice program came from humble, yet determined beginnings. In the l 970s. students often ventured to Latin America and areas of the U.S. to provide service during their summer vaca­tions through the Community for the International Lay 
see SERVICE/page 4 

.,________________.,._._,......,.._________..______ 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, February 4, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Good publicity is not everything 
I used to think that high-profile coaches want­ed nothing to do with the fans. Sure. every head man at every major American university would tell the students that they were of paramount importance to the program. but who really believed them? 
Bob Davie told us we were important. That's right. He Kevin Berchou told us exactly seven times, once at each pep rally when 
sports copy 

he was forced to comply with 
editor

age-old Notre Dame tradi­tions that mandated a pep 
talk from the coach. 
Maybe it's _just me, but those "rah rahs" never seemed sincere. I still looked at Davie as being in his own world of 5-7 seasons. The rest of us dwell in a far difterent universe. Ijust assumed an coaches were like that. 
They'd tell you one thing, whatever it was you wanted to hear. They would disappear into their cushy ollicc and stay as far away from the stu­dent body as possible. 
Then I met Coach Doherty. I recently had the pleasure of listening to basketball's new savior speak at Sorin Hall. I emphasize "pleasure" because Oohc.rty's talk was really that enJoyable. 
He was sincere and he was speaking not sim­ply because someone told him it would be good publicity. Sorin was just the most recent stop on Coach Doherty's ambitious campaign to visit every residence hall and get to know the stu­dents. his fans. Instead of telling us what we wanted to hear, Doherty made a concerted effort to get a feel for the concerns of his students. 
He began the appearance. which lasted well over an hour. by asking how many of the stu­dents present had seen the St. John's game. He asked those who hadn't attended what exactly had refrained them from going. He was a busi­nessman trying to market a product, not just wanting to look good. 
It's unusual to get any sort of valuable informa­tion from an important coach. Many coaches seem to relish the fact that they know more than we do. and they see the passing of relevant infor­mation as a transfer of power. 
Coach Doherty once again shattered the mold. He spoke candidly on subjects ranging from next year's schedule to the recruits he was after. He saw us as equals and genuinely wanted us to view him in that same fashion. Dohertv, bv his own admission. had had a long day. · · 
He had been up until 5 in the morning, watch­ing West Virginia game film. He later arrived at work by 8 a.m. -no small miracle for a man that has two young children. 
As tired as he was Doherty could have rushed the session, but instead he answered every last question. He told every Michael Jordan st;iry that he could remember and most importantly. made sure those that attended saw their time well spent. Even when the talk had finished, a weary Doherty stuck around to chat with a few strag­glers. Always with a smile. he responded to every inquiry and shook every hand. 
I can't begin to say how impressed I was with Notre Dame's new basketball coach. This was a guy whose team I wanted to support. You just had that feeling that he went home to a regJ.IlcJ.r house and drove a regular car. You knew that he lived in our regular universe. 
I know I'll see Bob Davie at the first pep rally next fall. I just might see Matt Doherty in the din­ing hall or during the first round of Bookstore. 
Thanks, coach. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Scene  
Erin Piroutek  Mike Vanegas  
Maribel Morey  Graphics  
Erin L.1Ruffa  Joe Muel.lcr  
Sports  Production  
Noah A1mrad1cr  Kerry Smith  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Marv Margaret N11S5baum  Angela Campos  

Th, Observer (U~P, S99 2-1000) "P"blished Munday dm,ugh r,i<la) txccpt during ..:xam .rnJ v.1ca1iun periods. The Ohservcr is ,:i membtr ofdie A~uri,ued Press. All .reproducrion ri~hrs are reserv(d. 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/ SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Allegro opens its doors for business Thursday, Feb. 6, 1992 The coffee shop in the basement of LaFortune of'licially opened. hoping to be more successful than its predeces­sor. Anticipating more student turnout, Allegro replaced Fudge 'N' Things. an ice cream and candy store. "This new shop sells inexpensive pastries and assorted bever­
age," said the assistant manager. Business at the ice-cream store had der:reased before the change. 
Irish unbeaten string reaches 10 Monday, Feb. 7, 1977 Increasing its unbeaten streak in the WCHA to 10 games. the Notre Dame hockey team beat Minneapolis. Although the team won, the Minnesota Gopher team's play belied Notre Dame's seventh-place standing. "It was good skiing, good passing. excellent goaltending and a lot of hitting, yet 
it was very cleanly played," Notre Dame coach Lefty Smith said. 
OUTSIDE THE DOME Compiled from U-Wire reports 
UCLA exhibit draws attention to exploitation 
LOS ANGELES 
Students. faculty and staff at the School of Medicine are spending their lunch breaks this week trying to "Draw the Linc,'' between student abuse and the hardships of medical training. 
The program. which began on Tuesday and concludes Thursday, consists of a series of 21 easels out­side the school's cafeteria describing real-life medical school situations and includes the opinions of passers­by. 
Scenarios include students picking up dry cleaning for faculty members, or being judged based on their sexu­al orientation rather than their work. 
Julie Sugino. a second-year med­ical student, noted the importance of the display, which is sponsored by the Association of American Medical Colleges· Organization of Student Hepresentatives. 


'They help us to sec how hard it is to identify where to draw the line of where student abuse begins," she said. 
Viewers are encouraged to write their own comments or reactions to the scenarios posted on the boards, using different colored markers depending on who they are. Current medical students use red ink. deans 
Harvard student wins $1.1 million 
CAMBHIDGE. Mass. 
Harvard Law School student Hahim Oberholtzer became the biggest game show winner in television history two weeks ago -but NBC forced him to keep his million-dollar fortune a secret until Wednesday, the show's air date. Over the course of two episodes of the primetinie quiz show "Twenty One," Oberholtzer amassed the record sum of' $1,120,000. "It's hard to think that's it's real until you actually see the check," Oberholtzer said. Oberholtzer's record­breaking win prompted fanfare on the episode that aired last night. "You are the game show king!" host Maury Povich told him, as blue and white balloons tumbled around him. Oberholtzer. who is a third-year law student, defeated a series of competitors by answering multiple-choice qunstions with subjects ranging from Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet to the hit film Jerry Maguire -and expanded his winnings from $100,000 to his wallet-bursting total. The hard­est question, Oberholtzer said, concerned landmarks in Greenwich Village in New York. "Since I had never been to Greenwich Village, it was difficult," he said. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
B 

Friday1 Q 32 23 Saturd~y ~ 35 17 Sunday I ~ 35 25 Monday c:::1 39 23

+./·,)' 

Tuesday ~ 36 24
•I·:;::•.t·
·•;.rr 

Q,Q,~A,'&.}Q {) ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurri•s Snow /co Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
use green, faculty use orange and anyone who does not fit into one of those categories uses brown, 
"We want to raise awareness of the relationship within hospitals between medical students and physi­cians and staff." said Aaron Weisbord, a second-year medical student and UCLA representative to the OSR. 
All the vignettes arc true stories contributed from medical students' personal experiences, Weisbord said. 
Medical student Priya Vasudev added her own comments to the boards. "The general attitude is that this is how it is in medical school." Vasudev said. "People accept it and know it's not going to change overnight." Comments such as "Welcome to medicine!" dotted the boards. echoing this sentiment. 

Gore gets mixed reviews at OSU 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

While Columbus Mayor Michael Coleman introduced him as "the next President of the United States," Ohio State University reactions to Al Gore's Wednesday cam­paign rally at the Ohio Union were mixed. "I thought it was kind of rehearsed," said Melissa Sharp, a sophomore journalism and political science major. "It sounded good but there was nothing new -nothing that would make me vote for him." Hon Meyers, president of the Council of Graduate Students, bad mixed reactions to the speech. "I would have liked to hear him address graduate and pro­fessional education more specifically," he said. "Funding for graduate and professional studenl'i has dropped 50 percent in the last decade and the average student loan burden has skyrocketed to almost $100,000." But Meyers liked Gore's remarks on balancing a growing economy with the needs of the environment and his commitment· to education in general and thought it was a great oppor­tunity for students. "All in all it was more of a campaign event than I expected," he said. "It would be nice to have a more substantive discussion on the' issues outside of the campaign environment." 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather"l' forecast for noon, Friday, Feb. 4. 
O 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM' STAnONARY 
Prt:HUre' ® © High Low Showers Via As110cmred PrHs  . [IT] R8ln T-storms  [;'.] CJ, , Flurries Snow  filSI. !co  ...~~ ......, Suriny  ¼/~iii,< Pt_ Cloudy  ~~­Cloudy  
Atlanta Boston Colo. Springs Chicago Honolulu  52 33 34 35 79  27 20 19 26 64  Louisville Memphis Miami New York Philadelphia  36 43 75 3B 37  25 24 59 30 27  Portland Sacramento St. Louis Tampa Wash DC  54 58 71 69 39  40 47 58 47 29  

Friday, February 4, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Late Night showcases dorm athletes 
By SAM DERHEIMER 
News Wmer 
The Joyce Center will be pack1,d tonight as hundreds of stud1rnts from Notre Dame, Saint \fary's and Holy Cross sacrific1\ their usual hiday night parly rontin,is to put tlrnir alh­
Late

lPLir abili­tius on Night tlw line in 
Olympics

Llw annu­a I Dorm !lnl'.Sports 
competitions

L a t c in 17 events
N i g h t Olympics. including soccer, Now in 
football, kayaking

its 14th year. ttw and broomball 
I. a 1 e . Joyce Center N i g h t Olympics . Friday 
is a mas-7 p.m. -4 a.m. sivc all­
. Benefits St. 

11 i g ht sports­Joseph County l"nst spon­
Special Olympics

sored by N o l r e 
Dame's 
BecSports. Created as a fundraiser f'or the St. Joseph County Special Olympics, event sponsors estimate that this year's competition vvill generat1, closn 1.o $5,000 for the Special Olympics. 
Over the pa.st 14 years, Late Night Olympics has grown to be one of the biggest and most popular campus events of the year. 
"We've been preparing for this since last September," said Susie Koza. co-director of this year's competition. "It's a lot of work. a lot of chaos. Rut it always seems to run [1ne in the end," she said. 
Though this year's compe­tition is similar to previous years'. there will be a few marked differences. Last year's problem of too much time between activities prompted RecSports to move all competition into the .Joyce Center this year. As a result of the reduced facili­ties. men's and women's soccer has been combined into a co-nd tournament. 
The rest of the 17 events, \\>hich include everything from volleyball to broombaH to kayaking, are unchanged. A new event, an obstacle course, has also been added. 
Inspired by the upcoming summer Olympics in Sydney, the !home is "Join Us Down Cndcr." 
"Wn're rnallv excited about this year;s theme," said Koza. "!l's kind of becoming larger than lifo." 
However, like years past, tonight's competition will have some competition of its own. Many potential partici­pants will attend the Keenan Revimv, another widely pop­ular campus event. 
"!Late Night] is alwavs a lot of fun," said Steve Walker, Late Night repre­sentative for Keough Hall, the reigning Late Night Olympics champion. "We. seem to have a lot of guys excited about participating. It's a great idea, you have fun and get to meet new people." 
Alumni Hall's formal will also pull many potential ath­letes out of the competition. 
"We will be participating," said Patrick Maloblocki, Late Night representative for Alumni, "just not nearly as much as we would have liked, or as much as RecSports would have liked." 
Zahm Hall had originally scheduled their Decade Dance for tonight as well, but moved it so they could be free to compete in tonight's games. 
Despite such drawbacks, Koza said she is not worried about any significant lack of participation. 'Tm just look­ing forward to seeing people have a good time," she said. "After that, I'm just looking forward to sleeping." 
The competition will last from 7 p.m. to 4 a.m. in the Joyce Center. Schedules of events and times can be picked up at the RecSports office in the Rolfs Athletic Center. 

DOMINIC VACHON, PH.D. 
DISCUSSING MAXIMIZING ACADEMIC PERFORMANCE IN GRADUATE SCHOOL: A WORKSHOP USING THE INSIGHTS 
OF SPORTS PSYCHOLOGY 

THIS WORKSHOP FOCUSES ON TECHNIQUES FOR: 
• 
HANDLING PERFORMANCE ANXIETY IN WRIT­ING PAPERS, TAKING TESTS OR MAKING PRESENTATIONS 

• 
DEALING WITH ACADEMIC SETBACKS 

• 
IMPROVING CONFIDENCE IN YOUR STUDY STRATEGY 

• 
MAINTAINING YOUR CONCENTRATION 

• 
IMPROVING YOUR ABILITY TO PACE YOURSELF IN ACADEMIC STUDIES 

• 
FOCUSING YOUR ENERGY MORE QUICKLY 

• 
MAINTAINING MOTIVATION WHEN YOU'RE BURNT OUT 


DATE: SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 6TH 
TIME: 4:00 P.M.-5:00 P.M. 
AT: FISCHER O'HARA/GRACE COMMUNITY CENTER 


Prof researches home loans 
. Williams says government agencies don't make mortgages available for low­income families 
By ERIN PIROUTEK Assistant News Editor 
Horne ownership is an inte­gral part of the American dream. A loan, however, is often a prerequisite to pur­chasing a home. 
Recent research by N o t r e Dame soci­ology pro­fessor Richard Williams, suggests that two govern­ment-spon­sored mortgage lending asso­ciations are not doing enough to make credit available to low income families. 
Williams' work began in the early '90s when a local com­munity group asked him to 


AII Shows Bclurc ~ PM $4.IWI 
$4.W S1uJcn1slChildrcn/Scni11r., 
~-~lMul! Srcn•o Surround Soun<l m :1II Th~utn;s 
DowntoVou  PG~13  
1 00 3:10 5·20 NO 10:00  
Eye of the Baholde-r  R  

12:55 3;15 5:35 7;55 10,20 
Galaxy Quest PG 
2:-45 5:05 7:40 10:25 Glrl Interrupted R l:10 4:15 7:15 10:05 
Next Frfday R 
1.15 3:30 5:45 8:00 10:15 Play It To The Bone R 1:25 4:05 7.10 10.1Q 
Scream 3 R l':30 4-10 7·05 9"S5 2:20 5;00 7·50 10:25 
Snow Falling On Ced:us PG-13 
10;05 Stu~rt Utile PG 2"30 5:00 7-35 9-50 
TI-la Cider House Rules PG-13 
1;20 4:15 7:10 10:15 Th• Grean Milo R 
3·45 7:30 The Hurricane A 
12"45 3.55 700 10:10 The Talented Mr, Ripley A 12;50 4;00 7:20 10:20 
Toy Story 2 G 
2:35 5:05 7-45 
lOOAli IIMiS QKtf l'QJW PA! llliAUC! ricm mB hANOOP AtcrnlillE t110 PA:.l!l • ij0 ,vrn,wm 

evaluate the performance of banks and mortgage lending companies in the area. He quickly found discrepancies between lenders with respect to low-income and minority markets. 
These results encouraged Williams to expand his research. 
"We wanted to find out not just that disparities existed but why they existed," said Williams. At about this time, he received a request from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to investigate Government Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs). 
The GSEs Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are privately­owned mortgage companies, but they receive substantial government benefits, such as reduced credit rates. In 1995, the Congressional Budget Office estimated that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac's bene­fits totaled $6.5 billion. 
In return "We wanted to find out Finance 
for these ben­not just that disparities magazine. efits, GSEs " W e
existed but why 
have the believe we responsibility they existed. " are leading to promote the market home owner­in most
Richard Williams
ship in areas and
sociology professor
under-served certainly 
lender. Therefore, if GSEs or other secondary lenders will not buy loans from low-income and minority markets, it is dif­ficult for low-income and minority individuals to get loans. 
There are a lot of people who seem qualified for home ownership, but can't obtain the necessary financing, he said. 
Williams studied Indiana mortgages from l 992-96 and found that rather than leading other institutions in percent­age of loans to under-served markets, the GSEs perfor­mance consistently lagged. GSEs lending patterns mir­rored those of institutions that did not receive government support. 
Barry Zigas, senior vice president and executive direc­tor of Fannie Mae's national housing impact division, defended Fannie Mae's actions to Inside Mortgage 
markets, which would include low-income and minority borrowers. 
The mortgage ma·rket has two components, primary lenders and secondary lenders, which include GSEs. The primary lenders deal with customers and make the loans. 
Then, to give the primary lenders money to make more loans, the loans are usually sold to secondary lenders, who assume the responsibility for the loan. 
"Someone has to take the risk of default.... That's why the secondary market is important," Williams said. 
Primary lenders are unlikely to make loans, if they cannot sell them to a secondary matching it," 
said Zigas, while commenting that GSE performance could be worse in some small markets. 
Williams countered Zigas' objections by noting that Indiana, a· state of 5 million people, should not be consid­ered a small market. Williams also noted that national stud­ies and a study in Kansas City have found similar GSE fail­ures. 
Williams' work may help make credit more available to low-income and minority mar­kets. 
"Because of several studies that all seem to point in the same direction, there is an attempt by HUD to raise the standards that GSEs have to meet," Williams said. 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 4, 2000 

sponsors cannot afford to pay community, we have one of for the scholarship. This is the largest and mosl active
Service 
e:;pecially true of smaller Coys Club.s in the country," alumni clubs or larger clubs explained Hick llanafin, a '66 
continued from page 1 
who want to sponsor more Notre Dame graduatr. and the than one student. Last year, Alumni Contact for the BlackApostolate 1CIL.\l. CSC's pre­
88 of the 204 SSP partici­Hills SSP.

decessor. llowever, U was nol 
pants were Andrews "We've been hosting an SSPuntil 1980 when Father Don 
Scholars. for about 10 years now," heMcNeill, current director or The club's main rnsponsi­continued, "Thll first time WAthe CSC, began to coordinate bility is to feel tho need to hosted a student it went so
efforts with the Alumni 
contribute to their communi­well. We realized what aAssociation that the frame­tv and dis-good thing
work for today's SSP program r"lay a will­il was for was establisht'd. 
"7here are a lot of

ingness to our family,
"I came 01i board the very 

support the opportunities at Notre C'specially
first vear," said Charles student with our kids to
Lennon. vice prrsidenl of uni­Dame to expand
housing or have a stu­
vusi ty relations for the classroom edur:ation. Ytn.t
social activi­dent with
Alumni Association. ''l'vl" 
ties. The can learn a lot us. It's
been involved ever since try­
Andrews also good
ing to make the program about yourself
Scholarship for the 
more productive for thl' [by taking part]."
takes some of alumnialumni contacts and the stu­the financial club to bt>dents themselves." 
burden frnm updated on
Sue Cunningham 
That first year was the 

the club. campus
summer of 1980 when SSP director
" 
T h e

MrNeill sent five students to 
Andrews

work in Chicago, Detroit, 
Sr.holarship

Cincinnati. Indianapolis and 
supports approximately four

St. Louis. 
to six new clubs each year.
Since then. 2,093 students 
This year we arf' shooting for

have participated in the pro­
149 clubs and 250 students,"

gram including the 204 stu­
Lennon said.

dents who traveled to 124 
"Our primary concern is

alumni clubs to work at 128 
that [the students] also have

sites in 138 cities nationwide 
the opportunity to have a

last summer. 
somewhat normal life while
Cunningham explained, 
they are [doing their service].

"Notre Dame is unique in that 
The biggest support we lat. 

we have such a strung alumni 
the Alumni Association! can

club network to make this 
provide is 

program 
encourag­

[successfulJ ," 
ing the
The pro-"/ want to do mission 
alumni to 

gram is espe­
work later on in life and I 
make the

cially depen­
was scared I wouldn't be student

dent upon 
part of the

the memorial able to do it. So I went to 
N o t r e

of a particu­
test myself" 
Dame fam­

lar alumnus. 
ily by pro­

J i m 
v i d i n g
Ryan Carlson

Andrews. He 
them with

is the co­SSP participant 
founder of Universal P r e s s Syndicate with fellow alum­nus, John McMeel, Andrews died unexpectedly in 1980, 
It was then that McMeel. his wife, and Kathleen Andrews, Jim's wife, decided to turn tragedy into generosi­tv. 
· "They wanted a memorial here at Notre Dame that wasn't bricks," said Cunningham. "They wanted something alive and student oriented, so they started the James r. Andrews Scholarship Fund. That is still a key part of [the SSP] pro­gram." 
The fund began at the rec­ommendatio n of Dick Conklin, who was the assis­tant vice president for public relations and information at that time. He realized that manv Notre Dame students want to do service in the summer but can't sacrifice the income of a summer job, In response lo this need, The Andrews Scholarship has consistently supplied the $1.700 tuition scholarship to students whose alumni rlub 
The Notre Dame Music Department Guest Lecture Series presents 
Pamela Potter 
Associate Professor of Musicology and German University of Wisconsin at Madison 
"Some Thoughts on the Problem of 'Nazi Music"' 
Monday, February 7, 4:30 pm Room 100 Hesburgh Center 
The lecture is free and open to the public. 
For more information, call 631-6201 or visit www.nd.edu/-music. 
trans­
portation 
or taking them to club functions, et cetera" said Lennon. 
"[Sponsoring an SSP stu­dent] is looked upon as the alumni club's gift to the com­munity. or at least to a spe­cific agency in their commu­nity," agreed Cunningham. "One of our hopes is that when the student is gone. the alumni club will continue a relationship with that agency, and it often happens that way." 
The alumni sponsors often have the opportunity to learn more about their own com­munity. while the agency has an enthusiastic Notre Dame student willing to help. The students serve as anv other volunteer would, but they usually have a lot of responsi­bility. For eight weeks. it's at least a full-time job. 
The Service 
In Rapid City. S.D .. there is a Bovs Club whose moito is "fun·with a purpose." The Club's goal is to teach the boys that come there, typical­ly ages 6-17, teamwork. dis­cipline and love. 
"Although we are a small 

lil'o." H y a n 
Carl.son. a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, was the SSP student sent to Black Hills last year, 
"I rode my bike down to the Boys Club every morning at 7 
a.m. and hung out wilh guys for about eight hours," Carlson said 
"l organized four l'ield trips per week. supervised the kids and just got to know them. I felt like I was just killing time with them. but these kids don't have a lot of structure in their lives so any time they can spend with an older kid is gnod for them," said Carlson. 
"I actually decided to go because I want to do mission work later on in life and I was scared I wouldn't be able to do iL So I went to test myself." 
He seems to have passed the test. "I know the Boys Club feels the quality of stu­dent they have every yMr is just outstanding," Hanafin said. "For us locally it has been a good mechanism to 
• 

rally the alumni club mem­bers to host a student. Over the years, people get to meet the students and enjoy them. As long as they send the stu­dents. we'll take thorn. 
"We Aven talked about expanding the program someday. There's a lot of non-profit agencies in the community that could benefit from a similar type of pro­gram." 
The Future 

"One of the things I hear l'rom students all the tinrn is, 'I'vfl bflen so lucky!' or 'I've bren so fortunate in my fami­ly and my ability tu come to Notre Dame. I want to give back."' said Cunningham. 
"For the most part [the stu­dents] !'eel like they am going to hr.Ip. and what they don't realize is this is such a huge education. When they get back they admit that they've learned so much morA than they could possibly give." 
The CSC continues to focus on the expansion ol' the SSP program with five specialty programs built around the summer service model. The Leadership Intern Program for African-Americans and 
Hispanics,  the  ACCION  
Internship  Program.  the  
National  Youth  Sports  

Program, the Campaign for Human Development and the International Summer Service Learning Program. are all prime examples of the self­lessness and success that sur­round SSPs. 
"There are a lot of opportu­nities at Notre Dame to expand classroom education You can learn a lot about yourself [by taking part]," Cunningham continued. "We are not trying to make every­body social workers. It's just a chance to learn more about who you are. The students here are the future and the more they know about social issues the better off our country will be." 
Corne Join the Tradition 
Bender 
continued from page 1 
Bender concluded that the issmi is not simple and it must be addressed appropriately on college campuses. It indicates that acceptance may be in part understanding that sexu­ality does not simply come from biology. but primarly from culture, Bender said. 
"This all suggests that the negative attitudes toward homosexual persons that we have in our society do not flow directly from human nature," she said. "They come from our culture." 
Bender believes that it is necessary for Saint Mary's to adopt a non-discrimination policy. An absence of a policy has dramatic. and possibly, deadly costs. "In the era of AIDS, honesty and communi­cation is a matter of life and death," Bender said. 
With Saint Mary's long-term goal of divArsity_ sexual iden­tity must be inducted in their goals, Bender said. 
An open and welcoming campus with rngards to sexu­ality is also necessary to recruit and retain varied stu­dents and professors. 
She also stated that gay and lesbian students and profes­sors at Saint Mary's voiced the need for role models. Not only is acceptance a moral obligation, but there are also academic costs to non-inclu­sion. 
"Students are missing out, not only in moral and ethical development, but also acade­mic development [in an atmosphere of non-inclu­sion]," Bender said. 
Bender is a professor of anthropology at the University of Oklahoma. She taught in the anthropology/sociology department at Saint Mary's from 1995-96. She has a degree in anthropology from the University of Chicago. 



Friday, February 4, 2000 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Crowd jeers Jeb Bush at affirmative action hearing 
MIAMI 

c;ov. Jeb Bush was boopd and jeerml by m1>rn­bns of a <'rowd of 1 .700 pfioplc as h(\ entered a publir hearing Thursday on his plan to end affirmative action in state university admissions and rnntrarts. "This has been a difficult time for mP." tlw Republican governor said. "The last two wPeks I havP carried a heavy lrnart around." Ile> said his p!lrn has be.r,n misundr,r­stood: He dor.s not want to exclude minorities but wants the state to be more aggressive in ensuring diversity in ways that will not be struck down by tlw courls,. The capacity r.rowd 
o.l the \JrHo.te Gusman Center for the Performing Arl-; Imel been sp,cJatp, until the governor walked in. Their rt>artion drowned out the pounding gawl of' tho luiaring's chairman. 
Navy to retain control of Russian tanker 
WAS! IINGTON 

The U.S. N,ivy decided today to divert and retain control or a Russian tanker stopped in thr, Persian Gulf. pending a decision on whether to seize oil U.S. rr!iicials believe came from Iraq in violation ol' a U.N. embargo. Hussian officials said the! oil came from Iran. The Russian­llagged commercial ship is to be diverted to a yet-to-be-dctPrmined anchorage in internation­al waters and then possibly turned over to a third country. said Pentagon spokesman Adm. Craig Quigley. "This is not an insignificant action." Quigley said. lie said U.S. Navy pr,rson­nel assigned to an international inspection nperalion boarded the ship Wednesday by heli­rnpter without resistance and have gathered "enough evidencP to say we believe this vessel is carrying contraband." 
FCC chief pushes wireless Internet 
WASHINGTON 

The nation's communications chief said Thursday he wants to spread wireless technolo­gy across the country quickly to revolutionize Ameri<:ans' dailv life, from the [nternet and muvi,1s to cars ;nd kitchen appliances. In an interview with The Associated Press, Federal Communications Commission Chairman William Kennard said to achieve that goal. the FCC will auction more slir.es of the airwaves for wireless technology and draft new standards for digital TV. The delivery of Internet access to wireless devices. such as cellular phones or hand-held computers. opens new doors for American consumflrs, he said:ult's going to f'ur­lher democratizfl the In ternet. It's going to make it available to people who can't afford a. $5.000 PC in their home." Kennard said. To promote that goal. the commission has set a spring datP lo auction valuable portions of the airwaves l'or delivering wireless Internet ser­vice to people on the road and in their homes. 

Compusile
s...~P 500: 
\'olumt>:
1423.68

11013.44 1,1129,.U?,607
r-14 56 
VOLUME LEADERS 

COKPMIJ lf!1'ROC'ALL  INC  'TICUR MCLL  't PWNC .+210. 6'4  •ClWNI +4. 2"1S'I  UICI: 5&. S2  
AMAZON .COM  lNC  AMZN  •21. 25  +U .152'5  H.75  
IJIE:11. TC'A  ONLlN ~  ML  -1.6:3­ -0.9950  :29, 61  
tlBLL COMPUTER lNTIL CORP  DBLL tNTC  +O. 98 ,.4.,12  i-0.)750 -..L1J75  .28.U 28.Cl'  
ORA.CLE  CORF  ORCL  ., . J6  •2.3775  .27. 77  
QUM,COMM  INC  QCOJl'J  -2. oz  -2. 67'5  .26.2,8  
Mel  WORLDCOM  IN  WCOM  -1. 96  -0.8900  26.17  
MlCJlCISOFT  COi.J>  M.l!FT  •2.16  +2.8075  2.-t..~9  
CISCO  SSTENS  csco  . 3.46  •3. 9350  2-t..14.  

.

orld 
I II 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIHE SEHVICES page 5 
Investigators find plane's black box 
Associated Pr~ss 
POHT HUENEME, Calif'. 
The cockpit voice recorder rec.overed from the Pacific details the Alaska Airlines crew des­perately trying to n,gain control as the jetliner rnrry­ing 88 people flew upside down hPfore crashing. fed­eral investigators said today. They also said they had found the second "blark box." 
The cockpit recorder cap­tured slightly more than 30 minutes or conversation, '.'Jational Transportation Safety Board Chairman .lames Hall told reporters in Washington. 
"The crew made refer• ences to being inverted that are consistent with the wit­ness statements to that etrecl." Hall said. 
The tape starts with llrn crew discussing a problem with a tail part called the horizontal stabilizer, which keeps Lhe plane level. The crew then decided to divert to Los Angeles International Airport. but the problem became worse. The crew then struggled to pull out of a nosedive, regaining some control while continuing to troubleshoot and prepare for landing. 
"Then control was sud­denly lost," Hall said. 
Hall's account came from an initial review of the cockpit voice recorder, which was recovered Wednesday from the debris of the MD-83. 
Remote operated vehicles searching the ocean floor today found the flight data recorder. the companion box that has details of the plane's mechanical opera­tion, said John Hammer­schmidt, a member of the NTSB. 
Its discovery came hours after searchers recovered the pinger for the recorder, which was no longer attached to the device. Around midday the recorder was being brought to the ocean's surface. 
The NTSB has also begun analyzing a recording of a radio call from Flight 261 's 
GREAT BRITAIN 

England may suspend Belfast cabinet 

pilots to a Seattle mainte­turn and hit the water, The wreckage is well nance crew about the stabi­Hammerschmidt said below the 300-foot safety lizer problem minutes Wednesdav. limit for divers -and most before the crash. "The ai;craft was twist­of the bodies are believed 
Investigators said wit­ing, flying erratically. nose pinned in the debris on the nesses saw no signs of fire rocking," he told reporters bottom of the ocean. or smoke when the jet hit late Wednesday. He also Searchers have recovered the water in one piece said other pilots nearby the remains of only four Monday. killing everyone on described the plane as passengers. board during the planned "tumbling, spinning, nose­Investigators expected flight from Puerto Vallarta, down, continuous roll, choppier waters as a light Mexico, to San Francisco corkscrewing and inverted." storm moved toward and Seattle. Ships with side-scan Southern California today. 
As the plane passed over sonar equipment that can The beaches were mostly Anacapa Island, just off the make detailed maps of clear of debris, but rough Calilifornia coast, a witness debris on the ocean floor seas could begin to wash heard several popping began searching the crash ashore more remnants of sounds and watched the jet site today. the craft. 
England to discuss the peace process with British Prime Minister Tony Blair. 
"We cannot partially implement the Good Friday agreement," Mandelson said. "It is all or it is noth­ing.'' 
The crisis threatens the new four-party coalition Cabinet that has given Northern Ireland a mea­sure of local rule after years of direct rule by Britain. 
The Ulster Unionists agreed in November to accept the !RA-linked Sinn Fein party as colleagues in the Cabinet established as part of l 998's Good Friday peace accord -but only on condition that IRA disarma­ment would follow. 
To win over skeptical col­1eagues, Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble promised he would resign this month as the Cabinet's senior minister if the IRA wasn't delivering on its end of the bargain. He backed that promise up by drafting a resignation letter and scheduling an internal party meeting for Feb. 12. 
Associated Press 
LONDON 
Britain will strip power from Northern Ireland's fledgling Protestant­Catholic administration within days unless the Irish Republic.an Army promises to disarm, lhe government announced today. 
Northern Ireland Secretary Peter Mandelson said he would introduce legislation Friday transfer­ring power bark to London from Belfast. But the process would take several days and could be stopped if developments warranted, he emphasized. 

Mandelson's statement was delivered to the House of Commons in London and watched closely by politi­cians in Belfast and Dublin. It was designed to buy a lit­tle more time for those struggling day and night to defuse the crisis that is on the verge of derailing Northern Ireland's peace process. 
As Parliamr,nt heard the announcement, Irish prime minister Bertie Ahern left Dublin for southern 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Friday, February 4, 2000 
Kidnapping shocks Japan 
Associated Press 
TOKYO 

It was a nightmare beyond belief: A schoolgirl grabbed off the street. stuffed into the trunk of a car and imprisonAd in the second floor of her cap­tor's house -for nine years. 
The crime. which has domi­nated Japan's talk shows and tabloids. emerged last week when the victim was discov­ered after her abductor took her out of the house for the first time. 
Along with disbelief at its sheP.r cruelty. the kidnapping is raising questions about police incompe­
The man's
"There was a la.ck of

tence. the 
mother lived

breakdown communication between 
on the first

of communi­
local police Ooor and has

ties and the 
denied know­
departments. " 

complex 
ing about

relationship 
Sano. police

between 
Hiroaki lwai said, though

captor and 
criminal sociology expert newspapers

captive. 
"She was not onlv con­fined physically," said Hiroaki lwai. an expert in criminal sociology at Tokyo's Toyo University. "Her soul was also in chains." 
Details of Fusako Sano's ordeal were still hazy this week, and police refuse to sav whether there is evidence she was physically or sexually abused bv the man who kid­napped her. 
But the little information available has fascinated -and horrified -Japan. 
On Nov. 13, 1990, Sano­then 9 years old -was grabbed off the street in Sanjo. about 160 miles northwest of Tokyo, and shut up in a sec­ond-floor bedroom in a small town 35 miles away. said Sanjo police official Bunyu Oshima. 
Her unemployed captor ­who has not been identined ­fed her, dressed her in men's clothing and cut her hair short. police say. Media reports have said blurry, thick windows helped keep outsiders from seeing what was going on. 
H's still not clear what her 
Hfe was like 
in captivity. 
say investiga­tors now doubt that. 
Police were called last week about a man making a distur­bance at a hospital. When they got there, a woman with him stepped up and identified her­self as Sano. Later, she was reunited with her family, who said they never lost hope that she would be found. 
The kidnapping is the longest of its kind in Japan. A man who had been missing for 23 years was discovered in 1970, Iwai said, but he had been raised by his abductnr as a son -not confined to a room. 

Sano's kidnappAr was hospi­talized, apparently for emo­tional problemo, and police say they have not questioned him. Sano also was hospitalized, and police say she is recover­ing. 
The questions have mounted. 
How, for example, could the man have eluded police detec­tion for nine years? I-le was arrested in 1989 for trying to kidnap another girl and was on probation at the time of Sano's disappearance, but police apparently never inves­tigated him. 
"Them was a lack of commu­nication between local police departments,'' said Iwai. "If tho prefectural police had taken charge, they might have been able to do something." 
Japanese are also asking how the neighbors could have failed to get an inkling some­thing was wrong, especially in a small town. For some. the crime showed how community t.ies have broken down in Japan. 
San,io police, who are head­ing the investigation, have refused to discuss how Sano's abductor kept her hidden for so long. 
Kyodo News agency quoted a police official this week as say­ing the handling of the case would be examined later. 
Sana's behavior is also under scrutiny. She told police she was not allowed out of the house for nine years. 
Basilica 
continued from page 1 
marble floor is accented by a golden seal of the Congregation of Holy Cross, located front and center on the altar area. This is the spot where seminarians pro­fess their vows, and where they lie prostrate when they arc ordained to the priest­hood. The carpet was fur­nished by the University. 
"We're verv excited about all of the imp;ovemenl, to the Basilica. It has been It makes Latin people feel more a part of the University community. It is also appro­priate because the Holy Father has named Our Lady of Guadalupe as 'Patroness of the Americas."' 
Improvement is also planned for the transfer of the baptismal font from one of the rear chapels to a new location near thR Basilica entrance. This is the original Basilica font, most likely used by Father Edward Sorin to cele­brate the sacrament. 
The entrance area has been widened to accommodate the 
font, which 
will be 

wonderful "We're very excited about flanked on one side by
to ho able all ofthe improvements 
to make the paschal
to the Basilica. It has 
candle and on changes." been wonderful to be able the other side 
by a rnposito­t h e s e 

comment­to make these changes." 
ed Father ry for the holy P e t e r oils. 
Hocca, Peter Rocca "The norms rector· of Basilica rector of the Second 
t h e Basilica. 

Another notable change in the Basilica is the removal of the Laetare Medal and commemorative book once located in one of the apsidal chapels behind the main altar. These items were relocated to the main building and were replaced by an image of Our Lady of Guadalupe. An altar was brought in and the chapel was rededicated to her on Dec. 10. 
Adela Penagos, multicultur­al coordinator for the Office of Multicultural Affairs noted that "for the Latin communi­ty, this image [Our Lady of Guadalupe] is very important. 
Vatican 
Council sug­
gest that the font be lor,ated near the entrance to the church." Rocca explained, "for it is through baptism that we enter the Church." 
Work to refurbish the Basilica museum is also near­ly completed. New paint and display highlighted this pro­ject. Finer cases with better lighting were installed, "but the real goal of this part of the project was to improve the flow of visitors through the museum during peak times," Rocca explained. 
University sacristan Brother Dennis Meyers said more changes will be implemented. 

Multicultural Comedy Night 
Saturday, February 5th 8 p.m. RECKERS 
Owen Smith 
1995 Notre Dame Graduate booked for DefComedy Jam 

Eric Neives 
appeared on Showtime at the Apollo and on BET's Comic View 
Eliot Chang 

renowned college comedian studied at the Chicago Improvisational Theatre 
Black History Month Event 
Presented by: OMSA, La Alianza, AAA, BCAC, and Student Affairs 

Friday, February 4, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
MBA gives 'bang for your buck' 
. Forbes rates ND's program
18th in value 
By KEVIN SCHUMM 
News Writer 
Amid an impressive field of dynamic business schools, Notre Dame's Master's in Business Association program ranks 18th in providing "the best bang 
for your 
b u C .k , " according to a new survey in 
the Feb. 7 
issue Of' Forbes 
magazine. 


"It is Woo certainly gratifying to see the value of the Notre Damr MBA education acknowledged by Forbes," said Carolyn Woo, dean of the CollegP nf Business. "However. it is important tu remember that the value of an education goes beyond the financial dimensions. At Notre Dame, we are commit­ted to an education that, most importantly, develops respon­sible leadership. independent thinking, and teamwork." 
As tlrn cost of a MBA educa­tion continues to rise, Forbes attempted to gauge an MBA student's gain relative to his or her 
investment. 
Looking at compensa­tion before matri cu Ia· tion. just after graduation and four and a half years later, the magazine compared the apparent salary gains to the costs of the MBA programs. The cost of each program incorporated not merely tuition but also lost salaries. 
The gains of the MBA edu­
cation are readily apparent despite Notre Dame's $22,000 annual tuition. Notre Dame finished in the top 20 with graduates making, on aver­
age, $48,000 more  in 1998  
than  they  had  before  
cnrolling.  

While the MBA program acknowledges the ranking, they are focused on other issues. 
"Our primary concern is quality," said _Hayd~n Estrada. director ot adm1s­sions for the MBA program. Despite last year's solid medi­an GMAT score of' 639, already up from 613 two years ago, "we're working on grtting the GMAT up a little bit higher," Estrada said. 
.. we're r e a J I y looking to 
~re:1Po ~ e n o u g h applicant
b a s e 
w h e r e we're real­ly comfort­
able with everyone's quantita• tive ability and a lot of that's measured GMAT." 
. t Just as the
"What we try an o zs o h 
make the personality ~~7ft:~m i~! such that the class gives focus over the more back to the school past few 
decades to and to the community the benefits of than the year before." international influence, so too has it rec-
Hayden Estrada og ·zed the
n1 directorofadmissions need for an MBA program equally strong 
through the 
While GPA and GMAT scores are important, "the most impact as far as the quality of the teaching in the school and the quality of dis­cussion in the classroom is 

The survey. "It is important to work experi­w h i c h remember that the value ence," he 
assess c d said. 50 schools. ofan education goes The MBA gathered beyond the program is s a l a r y ,. looking for
financial dimensions. 

information candidates to from each have some-sch on I's Carolyn Woo w h e r e Class of dean of the between three 1 9 9 4 · College of Business and seven 
years of work 
experience, 
the ideal being five years. 
A significantly increased number of applications and higher enrollment should allow for the additional selec­tivity the MBA program desires. 
Beyond test scores and work experience, the MBA 
program strives to admit a "class with its own personali• ty," said Estrada. 
"What we try and do is to make the personality such that the class gives more back to the school and to the com­munity than the year before and I think that's really hap­pening here now," he said. 
International students com­prise nearly 30 percent of the MBA program at Notre Dame. Their presence helps to cre­ate a solid balance. 
"What we want is for people to expand their own fields of refernnce through interacting with other people who have completely different fields of reference. It allows people to see things through other peo­
pie's eyes," 
said Estrada. 
d d 


•·Minimal TRAVELING to campus ~ GUARD against the cold with gas/heat paid It:Achieve your GOALS with our spacious 1, 2, & 3 
bedroom floorplans IrFOLLOW THROUGH & bring your pets with you (pets welcome up to 80 lbs.) fl;· Don't PASS up on our February move-in special 
Move FORWARD 
Call or stop in today: 256-0237 
\Villim11slm1g 011 the Lake 
302 Village Dri\!e, Misfwll'nka, IN 465-15 
@ 
UJUAl l'IWSNi Ol'!'!JRTUNITT
TDD I -800-326-9 I 93 
emphasis on 
not only man­agerial decision-making but also implementation. 
"You've got to be able to not only think through problems but make things work," said Woo. 
Undergraduate students shouldn't worry about a ris­ing MBA program negatively affecting their own programs 
though."In any one area, what we learn in the MBA program, once we have developed the curriculum, once we have
h
taught it, once we ave 
gauged its competence, that will flow through to other programs," said Woo. 
With recognition from insti­tutions like Forbes and the shared vision of Woo and Estrada, the Notre Dame MBA program is establishing itself in the world of business schools. 
"Business is really one of the most creative and empow­ering professions," said Woo. "It's really in the world of making things happen. You have to exercise judgement. You have to understand how 
flexible and creative in terms of matching the challenge to the resources that you have and the personality of the people." 

ND sues company that built stadiulll 
By JR ROSS Associaced Press 
The University filed an amended lawsuit Thursday against several companies, including the architectural firm hired to oversee the expansion of Green Bay's Lambeau Field, claiming a series of design and construction flaws at its reno­vated football stadium threaten the structure's integrity. 
Among the problems listed in the complaint are safety con­cerns with concrete toppings on ramps and concourses through­out Notre Dame Stadium, fail­ing joints and railings rusting prematurely because of shoddy work. 
A school spokesman said the problems posed no immediate safety concerns but could threaten tho structure's long­term integrity. 
The university filed its origi­nal suit last August against Ellerbe Becket Inc. and two South Hend companies seeking unspecified damages from the $55 million project. 
Problems with the stadium 
began with its inaugural game 
Sept. 6, 1997, when water and 
sewage flooded the lower con­
course, forcing fans to wade 
through flooded walkways and 
rendering some restrooms and 
concession stands useless. 
Still, when the Packers announced they had selected Ellerbe Becket to oversee the $295 million renovation and expansion of historic Lambeau Field, Packers President Bob Harlan said the Kansas 
City, Mo.­
"It makes it all the more the reno­
based firm was 
vated sta­

unfortunate that we're
selected, in 
dium's 

part, for its involved in this lawsuit unveiling.work at Notre 
with them because It also 
Dame Stadium. 
claims the

Notre Dame Stadium is a
The Packers' firm failed 

plan to reno­tremendous success." to realize vate Lambeau 
the univer­Field some­sity's exist­
Stuart Smith 
what mirrors ing sewer 
Notre Dame's Ellerbe Becket spokesman 
system was project, which added more than 20,000 new seats, a new press box, lights and scoreboards to the original stadium. 

The Green Bay plan calls for a 5-story red brick and green wrought-iron atrium called Titletown on the east side of Lambeau Field to include th"e Packers Hall of Fame, a stadi­um club and retail space that would be open year-round. 
How will you start the millennium? 
Advising farmers in Benin Teaching physics in Nepal Planting trees in Mongolia Preventing AIDS in Ecuador Film & Information Session • Center for Social Concerns Tuesday, February 8 • 6:00 -7:30 p.m. 
Information Seminar • LaFortune Student Center -Bring a Bag Lunch! Tuesday, February 8 • 11:30 a.m. -1:00 p.m. 
Interviews • Career Center, Aanner Hall Wednesday & Thursday, February 9 & 10 • 8:30 a.m. -4:30 p.m. 
Information Table • Hesburgh Library Lobby Monday & Tuesday, February 7 & 8 • 9:00 a.m. -4:00 p.m. 
Selecting NOW for summer 2000 departures! 
Q 
For an application, call (800) 424-8580, option 1 -or­visit our Web site www. eacecor s. ov. 
The renovation, planned to begin next year and wrap up in 2003, would add about 10,000 new seats, expand the con­course, add more women's restrooms and improve access for disabled people. 
Stuart Smith, a spokesman for Ellerbe Becket, would not say whether the Packers knew of the problems at Notre Dame before hiring the firm last May. 
Packers spokesman Mark Schiefelbein would only say Thursday team executives knew of the suit. 
"That is an issue between Notre Dame and the architects. We are putting all of our effort into ensuring this design works," he said. 
Smith said the firm has had no other problems during a 50­year relationship with Notre Dame in which it has designed many of the major buildings on campus, including the school library, basketball center and residence halls. It also helped with the $58 million renovation of the school's Main Building, topped by Notre Dame's trade­mark golden dome, completed last fall. 
"It makes it all the more unfortunate that we're involved in this lawsuit with them because Notre Dame Stadium is a tremendous success," Smith said. "It's one of the true suc­cess stories in college athletics today." 
But in addition to the prob­lems with concrete and railings, the lawsuit claims Ellerbe Beckett failed to design an ade­quate sewer and water system, causing the flooding at 
inadequate 
to service the renovated structure, result­ing in flooding at several cam­pus buildings. 
The parties had agreed last fall to postpone legal action in hopes of solving the matter through mediation by Jan. 3, but those efforts failed. 
Smith said the company still hoped to resolve the case with­out a trial, while Notre Dame officials refused to comment on the pending lawsuit. 
"The litigation is moving for­ward. It's hard to say at this point [what will happen next]," said attorney William Hoye, associate vice president and counsel for the University. 
Univ. Laundry annmg at the Campus Shoppes 1813 South Bend Ave. 
Monda Dollar Day Tanning Tuesda 
Senior Day Free Drying For Senior Citizens Wedncsda Free Hot Dogs Thursda Students Free drying w/College ID 
.45¢ Drop Off All Month Till Feb. 29th 


page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, February 4, 2000 
GOP leaders worry about Bush's loss 
Associared Press 
WASHINGTON 

Republican strategists. elect­ed officials. fund-raisers and other early backers of Georgr> 
W. Bush are nervously sifting through his stunning defeat in 
N ?. w 
Hampshire a n d demanding a change in tactics from their trou­bled front­runnN. 
The GOP establishment. heavily invested in the Texas governor's success, has a casfi of the j ittcrs. 
"You've got to believe it is hard to get through to the '202' exchange today because the lines are buzzing about this in Washington," said Nelson Warfield. former press secre­tary for 1996 nominee Buh Dole. 
'Tm bleeding for the guy right now," said Rich Bond, who was an operative for the candidate's father. former President Bush. "Most profes­sionals will tell vou Bush will prevail," he said: but the shock of an 18­point loss 


"should ing
"I think [Bush] was

give one boy" dimin­who cares overhandled and ished the can­
about poli­overscripted." didate in the tics and, in eyes of New my case, Hampshire George W. Steve Duprey voters. "The B u s h , New Hampshire endorsement g r e a t GOP chairman strategy needs 
10 to I now," said Hush fund­raiser Ted Welch. "He needs to pull things together, and he will." 
. He must be more critical of McCain. "Bush is going to have to get up and fight," said 
Hep. John Kasich of Ohio, who dropped out of the presidential race in July and enuorsed the Texas governor. 
. He must convince voters that he is prepared to be presi­dent. "I think that Governor Bush has really got to bone up on a tremendous numb?.r o[' issues," said Sen. Arlen Specter of' Pennsylvania, who 
has not endorsed a candidate but said the Bush team su!Ters from "an inevitable sense of complacency." Exit polls show that one-third of New Hampshire Republican voters did not think Bush had the knowledge needed to serve effectively. 
. He needs to be more spon­taneous. because McCain shines by comparison. "I think he was overhandled and over­scripted," said New Hampshire GOP chairman Steve Duprey. 
Endorsements don't always help. and maybe hurt. McCain's staff and some Bush advisers 
believe the father's back­of "this 

pause." 
W i t h McCain passing up Delaware's primary next week, South Carolina's Feb. 19 contest has become critical for both men. Bush's formidable lead in state polls evaporated overnight with the news of his New Hampshire finish, according to two sets of South Carolina surveys released Thursday. 
"The prop-wash of defeat is going to be around for a while," Bush told reporters Thursday, adding a thought for the sec­ond-guessers: "Tell them to hold their breath because they've got somebody who's about to win the Republican nomination." 
Interviews with more than a dozen GOP leaders across the country, most of whom support Bush, underscored the party establishment's strong belief that the Texan eventually will win the nomination, given his formidable resources and lead in most national and state polls. 
Yet several troubling themes kept cropping up: 
. The sense of inevitability that cloaked Rush's candidacy is in tatters. "I think if his odds were 20 to 1 before New Hampshire, they're probably to be shelved," 
said Scott 
Reed, Dole's 1996 campaign manager who is not tied to a campaign. 
Some Bush allies pointed to former Vice President Oan Quayle's endorsement in South Carolina on Wednesday as evi­dence that his political team still doesn't get it. 
Bush's own surveys suggest that South Carolina voters, long torn between the Texas gover­nor and conservative Steve Forbes, now lean toward McCain. 
Got News? Call 1-5323. 


Bauer to drop out of GOP race 
Associated Press 

WASIIINGTON 
Gary Bauer, the janitor's son who served in Ronald Reagan's White House and mounted a prnsidential bid of his own, 
has decid­ed to drop out of the race, a source close to the conserva­t i V e activist 


said today. Bauer 

The offi­cial, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Bauer plans to announce the move at a news conference Friday morning. 
Bauer is a well-established social conservativo who fared well in presidential debates, needling front-runner George 
W. Bush on abortion and China policy. He also had some success raising money. primarily through a large net­work of small donors built during his work as a conserv­aLive activist in Washington. 
However, Bauer had trouble carving out a constituency in a crowded lield of GOP con­servatives. 
He could not climb above 1 percent in the critical New Hampshire primary. With his wife Carol at his side, he con­ceded that contest Tuesday night, and said the voters of New Hampshire "have not endorsed me but without hes­itation I endorse them as being great citizens." 
Bauer has struggled to even make a dent in national polls, and finished in fourth place in the Iowa caucuses, ahead of only Sen. Orrin Hatch of Utah, who has since dropped out of the: race:. and Sen. John McCain of Arizona, who did not campaign in Iowa at all. 
"Gary is having a news con­ference on Friday. That's all we're saying about it." said spokesman Tim Goeglein. 
lie would be the sixth Republican presidential can­didate to drop out, leaving Hush. Sen. John McCain. mil­lionaire publisher Steve J-iorbes and former ambas­sador Alan Keyes. Bush, Forbes and Keyes have had more success than Bauer drawing conservative votes. 
Forbes can finance his own campaign, but needs a prima­ry victory soon to maintain his viability. Keyes has done surprisingly well in Iowa and Now Hampshire. but is not likely to challenge for the nomination. 
Vice President Al Gore and former New Jersey senator Bill Bradley are the only two major Democratic candidates. 
Bauer's campaign focused on what he considered to be the moral downfall of America. He denounced deci­sions in state courts that sup­ported gay rights, promised to "end abortion on demand" as president. and railed against Clinton administra­tion policy with China -urg­ing the administration to revoke normal trade status for China and adopt a foreign policy that "embraces our most basic human values." 
Despite a vast network of small-dollar donors, Bauer's campaign struggled against the fund-raising juggernaut of Bush, as well as the virtually unlimited funds of Forbes. 

Dems back on campaign trail 
. Gore, Bradley woo voters in California 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES 
Asked to defend the adminis­tration's spotty record of work­ing with Congress, Vice President Al Gore suggested Thursday that his resume makes him bettor prepared for 
the White  House  than  Bill  
Clinton was in 1992.  
Democratic  rival  Bill  

Bradley, working the other end of California, kept up his focus on differences between Gore and himself. At a San Francisco rally, he said nation­al health care "has been a part of the Democratic platform for 50 years" and is "one of those issues in this campaign that distinguishes me from Al Gore." 
Gore, he said, "doesn't have any plan to get to universal health care." 
Bradley's hopes for a spec­tacular bayside rally with the Golden Gate Bridge as back­drop fell through because of rain. Instead, more than 1,000 people jammed a restaurant to hear his remarks. 
Gore was in southern California with Gov. Gray Davis, touring Digital Domain and inspecting the firm's spe­cial-effects technology being used to put together "The Hod Planet," a Val Kilmer film due in June. 
Gore noted with a bit of envy: "Must be a fun place to work." 
Californians, he said, "will have a very decisive voice in picking the Democratic nomi­nee." The state, which holds its primary on March 7, has 367 of the 2,170 delegates needed to clinch the nomination. 
In a question-and-answer session with employees, film editor Bill Brier told the vice president he was disappointed with the Clinton-Gore adminis­tration's record with a resis­tant Congress, particularly on comprehensive health care reform and lifting the ban on homosexuals in the military. 
Gore, noting his 16 years in the House and Senate, suggest­ed he would bring more expe­rience than Clinton did in 1993 when he went straight from the Arkansas governor's man­sion to the White House. 
"A governor who comes to the White House without previ­ous experience in the Congress brings certain strengths. Someone who has served in the House and the Senate brings certain other strengths," Gore told Brier and a couple of dozen others. 

HOMES FOR RENT 

-Domus Properties has two, five, and seven bedroom houses available -Student neighborhoods close to 
campus -Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 2000/2001 school year BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY 3 HOUSES LEFT 
Contact Kramer (219)274-1501 or (219)234-2436 or (219)674-2572 

....--....-------------------.-.....-..--------~-..----------------------------..,....-------~-­
Friday, February 4, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
AUSTRIA 
President to s-wear in pro-Nazi Haider 
Associat«l Press 
VIE~NA 

Austria's president agreed Thursday to swear in a coali­tion govurnmcnt that includes a far-right party whose [P.adAr Joerg llaidcr has applauded aspects of the Nazi regime ,rnd who campaigned on an anti­immigrant platform. 
Heaclion was swil"L. lsrnel recalled its arnb,tssador and bann<'d llaidr.r from visiting, even though the righL-wing leadrr has rrpeatcdly apolo­gized !'or pro-Nazi remarks made years ago. 
European Union nations started making good on threats to politically isolate Austria. something the United States has back1•d. ThP EU also warnHl it may suspend thP ,\lpi.,w nation's membership. 
ThP prospP.ct of Haider's Frm~dom Party in government promptl'd about 2,000 protest­ors to take to the strnets of Vienna late Thursday for a sPcond straight night 
A group or them pushed their wav into the ritv's historic Bu,:gtlrnatr,r and ~tormed the stage in the middle ol' a perfor­mann'. <:ailing on thP audien<'.P to join a prol<\st rally Friday b1~for1' l1c<~ing Llw building. 
l)i,spite thP outrry both al homr and abroad. Prnsident Thomas Ki«'stil said the results of the Ort. 3 parliamentary elections give him liltlc choice but to go ahirnd with the swearing-in reremony Friday. 
Klestil did reject two CabinPt nominPes from llaider's Frer,dom Party, inducting one who authorized distribution of campaign postprs in Vienna warning of "over-foreigniza­tion." a term that harkened bark to the Nazi Pra. 
The president also demanded that Haider and his coalition partner. Wolfgang Schucssel of 
cinema@thesnite 
the Imaging the Divine film and lecture series 

lEMPTATION 
OFOiRIST 
Friday 7:00 p.m. 

Series runs Feb. 3 ~ 9 Admission Free 
also showing: Godspell Sat. 7 :00 p.m. 
presented by the Department ofTheology and Film, Television, and Theatre 
www.nd.edu/~cothweb 
the centrist Austrian People's Party, sign a statement renouncing the nation's Nazi past and promising to respect European values. 
Haider won international notoriety -and later apolo­gized -for statemenLs prais­ing Adolf Hitler's "orderly employment" policies and lauding veterans of the Waffen SS as "derent people of good character." Ile has also opposed EU expansion and urged a nP.ar halt to immigra­tion. ,. Schuessel will become chan­cellor and Freedom Party offi­cial Susanne Hiess-Passer will be vice chancellor. 
Although Haider will remain governor of Carinthia state and hold no Cabinet post. he has a strong grip on the Freedom Parly. Critics doubt Schuessel, whose hold on his own party is less firm, can r.ontrol the mer­curial Haider. 
The declaration that the two leaders signed did not specifi­cally refer to Haider's previous comments. However. Haider and Schuessel pledged to work for a democratic Austria where "xenophobia, anti-Semitism and racism have no plar.e." 
"Austria accepts her respon­sibility arising out of the tragic history or the 20th century and the horrendous crimes of the National Socialist regime," the statement said. "The singulari­ty of the crimes of the Holocaust, whir.h are without precedent in history, are an exhortation to permanent alertness against all forms or dictatorship and totalitarian­ism." 
At a press conference after the signing ceremony, Haider insisted his party was commit­ted to defending the rights of "ethnic and religious minori­ties" in Austria and could even serve as an example for the rest of Europe. 
RUSSIA 

Chechen rebels flee to mountains 
Associated Press 
ALKHAN-KAIA 
Rebels fleeing the smoking ruins of the Chechen capital pushed through snowy forests Thursday toward the southern mountains, hoping to join comrades in a guerrilla war against Russian forces. 
The rebel exodus this week from Grozny, the biggest polit­ical prize in the 5-month-old Chechen war, has boosted morale among 1-lussian troops. But a rebel leader claimed that by fleeing Grozny, the rebels had strengthened their hand. 
"It was much better for the Russians when we were con­centrated in Grozny ," said Khizir Khachukayev, a Chechen commander. "Now that we are going Lo be in the mountains. they will face more trouble.'' 
It was unclear how many of the estimated 3,000 rebels in Grozny made it out of the city alive in the flight that began 
ISRAEL 

Arafat, Barak end peace talks 
Associated Press 
EREZ 
Less than a month after one much-touted Israeli-Arab peace initiative crumbled, another dissolved Thursday into mutu­al recrimi­nations ­and the compre­hensive Mideast p e a c e P r i m e Minister E h u d B a r a k promised by year's end seems further away than ever. 
Palestinians said peace talks were in "crisis" after Barak refused to budge on terms for an interim territory withdraw­al during a tense two-hour summit with Yasser Arafat at this Israeli military outpost on the Israel-Gaza border. 
It was the second peace blow for Barak in three weeks -talks with Syria went into deep freeze in mid-January ­and he scrambled to deflect Palestinian talk of a dead end. 
"I am r.onvinced that this barrier will be overcome," Barak told senior officials of his Labor Party. "There is a deep interest by both sides." 
The Palestinians want the 


OHCampw•Jlfflior l'armt Wukfflb Spectal Y:cbn...Ant 11-21. 1000 
Come earfy; stay late, same price! 
Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms 
available for your parents. Weekend cost is $60.00 per parent. Whefher you stay Two, three, or foll' ni{tlts. Rooms se available Thursday through Sunday. 
For reservations, caU 219-631-7512. 
Monday. 
Defense Minister Igor Sergeyev said on Russia's ORT television channel that more than 1,500 were killed this week in the attempt to break through Russian troops around Grozny. Khachukayev said that more than 3,000 rebels had left Grozny in recent davs. The claims could not be confirmed, and Russia is believed tu often exagger­ate its casualty figures. 
The latest, large group of rebels fled overnight and arrived in nearby Alkhan­Kala early Thursday, then slipped through Russian lines to head for rebel strongholds in the m,>untains, Alkhan­Kala residents said. 
Almost all the rebels had left Alkhan-Kala by daylight, and the Russians took control of the village. It was unclear what happened to the hun­dreds of wounded rebels who reportedly took refuge there; some were believed too badly maimed to be moved. 
pullout from 6.1 percent of the West Bank outlined in an interim agreement signed in September to include popu­lous Arab suburbs of Jerusalem. The Israelis refuse, at least for now. 
"Once the r.onfidence and 
credibility and integrity of the 
peace process become 
absent, the element of trust 
disappears and both sides 
find themselves in a crisis sit­
uation, and that's where we 
are now," lead Palestinian 
negotiator Saeb Erekat said 
in an interview. 
Israel says it alone deter­mines what land goes back in the withdrawals, although it will take Palestinian 
considera­"/ am convinced that this press Israel tions into into conces­
barrier will be overcome. 
account. sions.
There is a deep interest
Barak is Erekat concerned by both sides." a I s o t h e accused Palestinians Israel of
Ehud Barak
will use total wanting to 
Israeli Prime Minister
control of delay a Feb. 
the suburbs, currently ~ under joint control, as the first stake in a claim to Jerusalem, the city both sides claim as their capital. 
Erekat said Arafat suggest­ed using U.S. Mideast peace envoy Dennis Ross, who is in the region, as an arbitrator. 
"We hop~ that thrm11!h the 
Sergei Yastrzhembsky, the Kremlin official in charge of Russia's information cam­paign on Chechnya, said Thursday that federal forces had killed about 100 mili­tants and taken 129 prison­P.rs over the last 24 hours. 
Russian mortars pounded parts of Grozny on Thursday as troops closed in on the last scattered bands of Chechen defenders, and Sergeyev said the Russian forces were advancing through Grozny at twice their previous speed. The troop progress was largely impeded by mines planted in buildings, the mili­tary said. 
Yastrzhembsky cautioned that centers of resistance remained in the capital. He told reporters in Moscow that federal forces now controlled more than 50 percent or Grozny. 
"Pitched battles for individ­ual buildings still lie ahead," he said, according to the ITAR-Tass news agency. 
good offices of the American administration ... we can restore the confidence and credibility," he said. 
Barak's Foreign Minister David Levy rejected that idea, accusing the Palestinians of engineering the dispute in order to invite U.S. interven­tion. 
"No outside force can do the work instead of us," Levy said, pledging the pullout would go ahead next week as planned. "No one can do this instead of the sides." 
Both the Israelis and Palestinians see President Clinton as eager for a legacy as his presidency winds down, and likely to 
13 deadline 

for an out­line of a final status agree­ment, due to be in place by September.. 
Levy said Feb. 13 was "not sacred," but denied plans for a delay. Barak's office said marathon talks aimed at meeting the deadline would rnsume on Sundav 

VIEWPOINT 

Boxers bring needed aid to Bangladesh 

DILBERT 

I CAN'T DO ANY­
THING BECAUSE 
I'M ALLJAYS WAIT­
ING FOR 50MEONE ELSE. 
page l0 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Rox Q, Norte Dame, IN 46556 024 ~outh 0111mg Hall, Norr< Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
_1\1. Shannon Ryan  0Jvid Rogero  
ASST. MANAUNG EDITOR  
Laura Pctclk  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Lo!!:an VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler SCFNE EDITOR: Micbad Vanegas SAINT M\RY's EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
A.oVERTISlNC MANAGFR: Bryan Lmz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Hudar SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMT:-.IISTRAT0R: Erik Kushro 
Cor-TROLHR: Timothy Lme GRA.l'HTCS EIJITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MA.',"AGER/GENERAL INF0.............•631-7471 FAX.............. ..............,.......................63 I -6927 ADVFRT!SING............•... ...................(,31-6900/8840 
observer@danvin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.......................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/Assr. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 

VJEWPOINT...........•........•.•...•...•..•.•.............631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SPORTS..............................············•·· .....•.•,•.631-4543 
observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu Sil.INT MARY'S....... ································· .....631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO............................................•..........631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB A.oMINISTRAT0RS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visir our Web sire ac http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, teacures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for

weather for up-to-the 
weekly srudem reviews

min ure forecasrs 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

and races ofprim ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives ro search for 
about The Observer 

articles published aner 
to meet rhe editors and 
sraff

August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independem, daily newspaper published in print and online by che students of rbe University ofNoue Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial concenr, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe •dminisrracion of either insrirurion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advercisemencs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objecrivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of rhe majority of rhe Editor in Chiet'. Managing Editor, Assistam Managing Editor and dep-arcmenc editors. Commemaries. leners and columns present rhe views of rhe authors and noc necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Lercers to rhe Editor must be signed and musr include contact information. 
Q11utio1u regarding Obseroer policies should be direct­ed ro Editor in Chie[Micheltc Krupa. 
O
THE BSERVER Friday, February 4, 2000 
1--~~=i=-a-----4..,...--""'------=­

SCOTT A.DA.1\.1S 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The city is the teacher ofthe man. " 
Simonides ancient philosopher 
----.....-~-----.,. 
In less time than it takes to read this column, you could easily spend $200 in the Notre Dame Bookstore, especial­ly on a price-inflated football weekend. 
In Bangladesh, many families Charles among the 27 mil-Rice 
lion "ultra poor" -one person in 
Right
five in the entire country -live on or 
Wrong?
less than that for an entire year. Over half of the children under 5 and over half of the mothers in Bangladesh are acutely and chronically malnour­ished. The poor are the chief victims also of an environmental crisis includ­ing arsenic contamination in villages and poisonous air and polluted water in the capital city of Dhaka. The coun­try is still recovering from the 1998 floods, the worst in the century. 
So why mention this'? Because, at this time of year, we at Notre Dame can do something effective for the peo­ple of Bangladesh. Since 1931, the entire proceeds of the Bengal Bouts have been sent to the Holy Cross mis­sionaries in Bangladesh, many of whom are grads of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The 1999 total was a record $51,000, a relatively enormous sum. "a dollar there," says Father Bill Seetch, boxing club chaplain, "is worth 10 times what it is here." The lloly Cross missionaries run seven primary schools and two colleges, Notre Dame and Holy Cross, with emphasis on the poor. The "compound of Notre Dame College," said Bengal Bouts coach Tom Suddes after his visit to Bangladesh, "is simple and really Spartan, but the poverty outside the walls of the college is like nothing you could ever imag­ine." 

The boxing club, which conducts the Bengal Bouts under the supervision of Rich O'Leary of Rec Sports, does two things. First, it provides a significant and even life-saving force for good in its support of the Holy Cross missions. Second, it provides its members a uniquely formative experience. "The boxers," says Father Seetch, "come away from the program with more than bruised lips and black eyes. They gain a quiet confidence that comes from knowing you have made a differ­ence in the lives of others half a world away." 
The dub officers -president J. R. Mellin, Tom Biolchini. Brian Hobbins, Mike Maguire, Mike Homanchek, Pete Hyan and Josh Thompson -actually run the progrnm. This year 180 boxers began training and a record number will compete. The Bouts will be in four sessions in the Joyce Center. You can buy tickets from any boxer or at the Joyce Center. The boxers also raise money by selling program ads. 
The coaches, all former Bengal Bouts champs, are Terry Johnson, a Chicago attorney; Tom Suddes, a Columbus, Ohio, developer, and Pat Farrell, the University pilot. They devote great blocks of time to the pro­gram. They are helped by exceptional assistant coaches, especially Sweet C. Robinson and recent Bengals champs Ryan Rans, '98, Chip Farrell, '98 and Toby Biolchini, '96. Roland Chamblee, '73, a four-time Bengals champ, adds a unique dimension as probably the only state court judge who also serves as a cornerman in the ring. 
The program emphasizes safety. Dr. James M, Moriarty, University chief of' medicine, carefully screens and over­
--,""""-. -' 

sees the boxers. No sparring is con­ducted without paramedics at ringside. We have never had a serious injury beyond an occasional redirected nose and similar inconveniences. Everyone in the program is intent on maintain­ing that record. 
The heart of the program is trainer Jack Mooney, a mere youth of 86 years. Jack, who was Knute Rockne's paperboy, assisted Bengal Bouts founder Dominic Napolitano in the early years. Jack prepares the boxers for their sparring sessions and debriefs them afterward. As any boxer will tell you, .Jack is unforgettable. His assistant, .Jack Zimmerman, is not only an effective trainer but also a poet and a professional accordionist. The boxing club, it must be acknowledged, is utterly dependent on the administra­tive skills of Meghan Kelley, '02, of Pasquerilla East. Last year Meghan and Emily Schmidt, '99, brought the program to a new level of ef'ficiency. Meghan, assisted by Claire Dampeer, '02, is carrying on this year without skipping a beat. 
I hope the members of the Notre Dame community will continue their exceptional support for the Bengal Bouts. You are welcome to visit the practices in the JACC Boxing l{oom any weekday from 4 to 6 p.m. I think you will be favorably impressed. 
Professor Rice is on the law school faculty and is faculty advisor to the boxing club. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
.; 
= AM ~ I IN 
'i; 
~ HECI<? 
·;; 
:, 
0 0 
0 
"' 
Q 

NO, I'M JUST WORKING THE OVER­

a:cc 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Friday, February 4, 2000 BSERVER page 11 

BOSTON -Wilh the Chinese New Year around tlH'. corner, my thoughts have been center­ing on tradilions, family and ­it may sound odd 
Jennifer Young

-death. The Chinese 
The Daily

New Year 
Free Press 

is thn first day of thn lunar cal­endar. and narh year has a corresponding animal sign ­the Chinese equival<'nt the t\mericun astrological system. The Gregorian calendar year 2000 corrnsponds to the year of the dragon, which begins Feb. 5. 
What I've always enjoyed about Chinese New Year is get-· ting togethf'r with my family. For us, the New Year has always bee11 as much of a ma­son to celebrate as Christmas or Thanksgiving. In China. nearly iweryonc gets two weeks off for Chinnse New Ynar, and most people brave the jam­pac-:ked sardine c.ans, called trains. to br reunited with fam­ily for the holiday. 
for me. Chinese New Year has always been a source of mixed emotions. It was a time when I was happy to be sur­rounded by family but befud­dled by traditions I didn't understand. Like a child at Christmas, I merely enjoyed receiving gifts associated with the holiday. lt never oc<.;urred to me that others might hold this to be a day of deeper sig­nificance. 
I remember how my grand­parents always used to pay their respects to my great­grandparnnts and other ances­tors during tlrn two weeks fol­lowing the New Yf'ar. and I wonder how my grandmothers will feel this year because my grandfathers both passed away wilhin the last two years. I hope their thoughts won't linger on their own mortality. 
As a little kid, it never occurred to me that the peoplP I love most in the world would ever die. I remernbm· being introduced to the idea of death for the first time. I think I was 4 when my parents explained what death was and told me that my great-grandmother (whom I had never met) had passed away. 
I started to cry. 
There has been a lot of grow­ing up to do in the last few years, and I h;.ve come to real­ize that my perception of death has evolved a great deal since that day more than 16 years ago. Before my grandfathers fell ill, I had thought of death as something to be feared, not so much for myself (because I'm young and immortal, of course), but for my aging grandparents. 
fl seemed so painful and final: it seemed impossible that anything positivr' could come from something that causes tears of sorrow. Yet when 1 found myself confronted with the real thing, I found that many blessings came from an event normally considered dev­astating. 
My grandfathers, both of whom had been struggling to hold onto their tfmuous grip on life, were finally free from the physical anguish and mental fogginess that had plagued them in their final years. There was a point in time when I looked into each of their eyes and. for a brief moment, saw utter weariness and acceptance of their deaths. There were endless seconds when I observed, helpless. the effort it took for them to draw a single breath. 
Death has the wonderful effect of inspiring people to recall the most positive aspects of those who have passed on. Although this sharing tends to make us crv much harder, it also reminds us how our departed bave lived full lives that have touched friends, fam­ilies, acquaintances or even strangers. And. just as impor­tant, it serves as a reality check for those of us left behind. 
Where are we headed in life? Do we lot those we love know how much we care about them? Have we openPd doors for straugers carrying heavy packages or given up our seat for that elderly lady on the T? Have parents spent quality time with their children and sup­ported them as they grow into adults? 
I oftnn get so sidetracked by my pursuit of the sirens: wealth. power and prestige, and it takes something like death to put things back in per­spective. WhethPr it's the news of a death in the family or a stranger's tragic murder. I come back to my true priorities in life: family, friends and integrity. 
With a sudden jolt, I realize how long I've been neglecting to respnd to e-mails or letters. I call my mom to apologize for the rude things l said during last week's phone call {and then she says. 'Tm sorry. Who is this?"). And I admit that I'm going to miss my family on Chinese New Year. 
This column first appeared Febraury 1, 2000 The Daily Free Press at Boston University. ft is reprinted here courtesy of the U-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Film sends message of humanity 
I am responding to Peter Byers' letter condemning the film, "The Last Temptalion of Christ." As "a matter of con­science," I am compelled to honor Mr. Byers' request that somebody give a lecturn BEFORE the film. 
First. let me warn those of you who have not yet seen the film and think thal a lecture before it is absurd. I am about to ruin the surprise ending. However, I will respond to Mr. Hyers so that I may edify him, and others like him, who refuse to consider the possibil­ity that this film, and the ques­tions that it raises, might pre­sent something valuable to the discussion of Christianity. 
"The Last Templation of Christ," direc-:t11d by Martin Scorsese, is based on the 1955 book of the same name by Nikos Kazantzakis. When asked to defend his controver­sial publication, he statet.l, "This book was not written because I wanled to offer a supreme model to the man who struggles; I wanted to show him that he must not fear pain, temptation or death because all three can be con­quered, all three have already been conquered. Christ suf­fered pain, and since then pain has been sanctified. temptation fought until the very last moment to lead him astray, and Temptation was defeated. Christ died on the Cross, and at that instant death was vanquished forev­

Hr.tt 
Disregarding Kazantzakis' Christian intentions, the Roman Catholic Church banned the book soon after its release. Despite the Church's position regarding the book, Martin Scorsese, a Roman Catholic who once r:ontemplat­ed the priesthood, saw passion in the work and decided to base his movie on it. 
The film portrays Christ can­didly as a human being and addresses the issues that all human beings struggle with in their daily lives, particularly, the temptation to sin. One would be foolish to believe that Christ was not tempted to sin. This film looks at Christ's last temptation: to save him­self from the excruciatingly painful, blood dripping cruci­fixion he suffered on the cross. The film takes an unexpected turn when we see Christ miraculously free himself from thf' cross and treat himself to a long and fruitful life: He gets married, he has children, his wife dies, he remarries and finally. he grows old. 
Just as we begin to think that Christ sold out. we realize that the mirage has merely benn a pai:t of his temptation. Some Christians complained bec-:ause this film showed Christ as being too human. That's strange, I always thought that was the message proclaimed in the Good News. Do not be afraid of this movie. It is only by challenging one's faith that one is able to strengthen it. Christ's last temptation was to save him­self; he did not give in. Instead, he chose to save us. 
This is the message of the film. I am convinced that athe­ists, agnostics (like me). non­Christians, Christians and reli­gious fanatics alike, ought to enjoy together. 
Patrick J. O'Donnell 
Junior 
Carroll Hall February 2, 2000 

When did it become 'normal' for us to hate our bodies? 
Eating Disorders Awareness Week is our friends? We are told from the beginning February 12-19. Many members of the Notre that we were created in the very image of God! Dame community will flip past the articles and He never wanted us to be the same, but as his apalhetically toss the surveys in the wastebas-children. we are all equal in heart and soul. He ket. Eating disorders may seem confusing and called us temples of His Holy Spirit -why is it completely unrelated to you. But let me ask you so ordinary to criticize and detest God's mas-this: Have you ever looked at a mirror or in a terpieces? fashion magazine and felt dissatisfied as a To truly treat an eating disorder, victims result? Have you ever compared yourself to a must first learn to accept and love themselves friend or a complete stranger, wishing you as they are. As part of Self-Acceptance could look more like them? Then I Awareness Week, I challenge you to do the 
assure you, Eating Disorders ~~'--· same. Look past the image and criti-Awareness Week is important .1, t., , ·sms you have of yourself and see for you. -;: llfl ' / od's most valuable and worth-This may seem like a /!, :r, hile handiwork. Once you gigantic leap, but i.t is , ~ ' an accept and love yourself 1.rue; we all are affect-, ' s is, look past your own ed by eating disor-j' udgments and others' out­ders and by the atti-if •ard appearances to see 
ludcs that cause ·~~o:;..;~ a brother or sister, a them. The purpose ·-""'J'"'" worthwhifo and unique of Eating Disorders human being. Surround 
Awareness Week is your family and friends to further under-with nncouragement. stand the causes of reminding them that you these prevalent and , love them exactly as they d1rndly diseases and arc. And, especially on to confront stereo-is week, look at those types about them. uffering from eating disor-Eating disorders have ers and see humans strug­nothing to do with food. ing with self-appreciation They begin with depression nd love. and dissatisfaction with one's I'd like to change our society so body image. These bring about _____ at no one bases their self worth on self-hatred that is often expressed in outer appearances but on inner character. unhealthy eating patterns. However, I realize that changing the world is a 
Problems with accepting ourselves as we are gargantuan task. All I can do is get up every manifest themselves in other unhealthy behav-morning, look in the mirror and try to accept iors besides eating. They are underneath our and maybe even love what I see. Then, I will damaged relationships, hurtful actions, depres-try to look past the outer image I have of others sion and addictions. Until we can embrace our-and accept them for who they are. Maybe, as selves for being ourselves, we can never reach part of Self-Acceptance Awareness Week, you our goals or reach out to others. Wherefore, I could do the same. Maybe your friends, your would like to rename this week -I declare this hall-mates and our community can do the week "Self-Acceptance Awareness Week." same. 
When did it become normal for us to hate our bodies? Why do we see it as common for Monica Rowinski women to call themselves "fat" and for men to Sophomore constantly compare their strength to that of Lewis Hall others? Why are we constantly evaluating our­February 2, 2000 selves to everyone on television and to all of 
C s 

page 12 Friday, February 4, 2000 



Isn't this scene exciting? Waddick's, located in O'Shaughnessy Hall, is one of many eateries sprinkled throughout campus. It serves not only as a place to gain nourishment, but as the home to arguing intellectuals, help-seeking students and nosey people wanting to eavesdrop. 
Notre Dame food services, aside from NDH and SDH, specializes in 
following is just that: a journey bars, ice cream bars, chips, dating to its customers. Thus, smoothies people buy even in
By MIKE VANEGAS 
through the bowels of Notre soda pop. one will notice an abundance the harsh cold of January.
Scene Editor 
Dame food-places. What's And paving the way for of tables and chairs. But when In addition to the original good? Where's a good place to America's technological future, it's not too busy, that provides dining fare mentioned, Reckers 
There are varying opinions study? What's the best "soup" the cafe has a television and a for an intimacy that is unseen also specializes in perhaps the concerning food at Notre Dame around? computer. at other campus restaurants. greatest capitalist ploy ever, dining halls. To many people, it With an established menu of Starbucks coffee. is adequate. It eases hunger If there were awards for typical American foods -Not that $4 cups of coffee are
Seattle's Best, Hammes

pangs, and when compared to campus eateries, Seattle's Best sandwiches, salads, soups -bad things. In fact, the pres­some of the cafeteria-like mon­Bookstore would win the following: the cafe deserves visitations by ence of Starbucks (along with strosities found at other col­It's a c:offee shop. So unless • Best place to spend $400 anyone who wants to make the Burger King) marks Notre leges throughout an exc:essive­you're looking for coffee, this on books and still enjoy a cup long walk to the Hesburgh Dame's introduction of 
ly grub-infested America, north isn't the best place to visit. of coffee. Center for International American corporate culture to and south dining halls aren't But that doesn't mean • Best place to jog to and Studies. its students. And because eco­that bad. Seattle's Best is a bad place to get your weekly workout if nomics is not a requisite for all 
In fact, they are too good to be. Like most American mega­

you live on North Quad. Awards: students. Starbucks serves a 
be true. They are too good to books tores today, Notre • Best really tall chairs. • Best use of space. fine lesson in money manage­express their goodness in Dame's grand pala.ce has, in • Best use of the color ment. words. They are simply fantas­one of its many corners, a cafe. green. But for all the shadiness sur­tic. But the cafe is not riddled Greenfields, Hesburgh Center 
• Best place to watch your rounding its immediate popu­Others will say the recyding with goateed intellectuals professor eat lunch. larity throughout c:ampus,
for lnternatinal Studies 
nature of the dining hall cooks clothed in black. nor is it It's a place probably about • Best place you've probably Reckers does indeed have a hipperhaps puts into question the infected by hyper teens wanti­95 percent of the Notre Dame never heard of. atmosphere even at its least trust students place in the l'ood ng to ingest the latest cappuc­
student. body has never visited, busy times. Where else can givers at Notre Dame food ser­cino-mocha-espresso caffeinat­but once again, it's not that Reckers someone watc:h television for vices. ed conglomeration. 
bad. Greenfields Cafe is defi­an afternoon, surf the Internet,
What can be said about
But because the dining halls Instead, it is quaint. With a play some video games, eat a
nitely a restaurant geared Reckers, the campus hotspot
are such integral and constant service staff that puts a smile bunch of junk food, study, read
toward the breakfast and lunch infamous for late night socialparts of student lives here at on one's face. there isn't really crowds, and those crowds con­the newspaper, listen to music.
deviancy?

Notre Dame. there is no real anything to complain about in sist primarily of faculty and sleep and talk to friends?
For many people. Reckers is
reason to discuss their lovely regard to the exchange of Only one answer really fit
staff at Notre Dame. 

a destination they zero in on
atmospheres and social vitality. money for goods. this description accurately:
-The cafe, as one would 
when escaping the sometimes
In order to discover the But, as one would expect at a home. OK, so maybe there are
expect, is very green. Green undying pleasures of the dining
glamorous presence of food cate. there isn't really much to two answers: home and
carpet, green aprons, green 
hall. The restaurant boasts the
service at Notre Dame, one choose from, aside from vary­Reckers. Because really,
napkins, green chair cushions. famous "Reckers burger" ­
must instead make the ing forms of caffeinated bever­Reckers is just like home. and
With perhaps the largest din­
which was famous even when
exhausting trip around cam­ages. One can find a bagel here home is where everyone really
ing area among campus cafes. the restaurant was born a year
pus, from the Notre Dame and there. Maybe a big cookie. wants to be. Home is where
the daily business forces and a half ago -pizzas roast­bookstore to Bond Hall to And of course, there is the typi­
Greenfield's to be accommo-everyone knows your name.
ed over an intense flame and
O'Shaughnessy. Therefore, the cal array of snack foods: candy 
No, that's Cheers. But that's 

,,,__-..J$2___www.,... .....,__ 
_ _,________ r::_____ "ll>___ ___,____________.,,.-'__________________:,,,_______ 

Friday, February 4, 2000 page 13 

MARY CALASH/The Observer 

Though many campus restaurants are visited primarily by faculty and staff, they offer variety for students used to the sometimes unvaried nature of the dining halls. The Huddle (top left), Cafe Poche (bottom left) and Commonstock Sandwich Co. (above) provide alternatives in all things digestible. 
not a bad comparison. 
Awards: 
• 
Best place that seems to be only for South Quad resi­dents. 

• 
Best backside of a well­known campus building. 

• 
Worst use of the color green. 

• 
Best place for those with attention deficit disorder. 

• 
Best place for average customer service. 

• 
Worst use of space. 


• Best use of randomness. 
Irish Cafe, Law School 
There is one award that 
r,haracterirns this cafe: Most uncomfonable place for an undergraduate studtmt. 
Other awards: 
• Least original name. 
Common Stock Sandwich 
Co., College of Business 
What's smaller than a bread­box. and sells hot dogs to busi­ness students? Thal's right. !l's the Common Stnck Sandwich Co. at the College of Business. Less organized than the Huddle Mart. the tiny room in the lower level of COB(A) seems to be intended for buy­ing typical vending machine items. 
And since only a select few actually make it to that other pointy building by the stadium. it doesn't real!y need to be more than it is. 
Awards: 
• 
Coolest name. 

• 
Best impersonation of 


grab 'n' go. 
• Biggest letdown. 
• Restaurant that most 
resembles a dorm room in size. 
• 
Restaurant that doesn't deserve to be called a restau­rant. 

• 
Best definition of a cam­pus 7-11, only without the gasoline amt beer. 


Waddick's, O'Shaughnessy 
Among arts and letters stu ­dents. Waddick's is a familiar sight. Locutcd on the first Door of the beautifully crafted O'Shaughnessy Hall, the small cafe is best experienced during a class period, when a 15-per­son line isn't stretching out the door. With a coffee menu sup­ported by daily specials. Wa<ldick's looks to be the most established in the campus fam­ily of cafes. 
It is also the most intimate eatery on campus. With six round tables tightly woven 
through the floorplan, three elevated booths and a long bar facing the halls of O'Shag, it provides the greatest opportu­nity for sophisticated, yet, rele­vant conversation. Such is the hardcore nature of arts and letters restaurants. 
As for the actual food served, one may think, sometimes, per­haps, much of the food comes from the dining halls. But for­get that thought out of respect for those who work at Waddick's. Besides, all of these restaurants fall under the umbrella of Notre Dame food services. 
Awards: 
• 
Best place to eavesdrop on others' conversations. 

• 
Best place to have people looking at you like you're a lab rat. 

• 
Best place to feel really dumb if you don't know who Nietzsche is or what he's about. 

• 
Place most likely to be a location for office hours. 


• Most traditional cafe. 
The Huddle, Lafortune 
Where else can you eat, then get a haircut? Such is mall-like experience of visiting the Huddle at Lafortune student center. 

A few years ago, the Huddle was simply crap. The Huddle Mart was small, with little more than cough syrup, Coca­cola and quarterdogs. Tomassito's was there, hut Burger King was not. 
Today, LaFortune is not crap. It's not the sweet loveliness of, say. 7 5 degrees and sunny skies, but it's not crap. 
Burger King, the other Flex­point hot spot (second to Reckers), has added credibility to a once fully independently run campus. Hopefully, there will soon be a McDonald's on the top floor of Flanner. an Arby's on the second floor of Hesburgh Library and a Papa John's at Main Building. 
Thank you. Huddle, for giving everyone high cholesteral and a reason to walk five minutes through the freezing cold of winter. 
Awards: 
• 
Best place to pretend you are studying. 

• 
Best place to get high on sugar. 

• 
Best place to spend Flex points. 


Cafe de Grasta, Grace Hall 
With a service area large enough to battle all campus restaurants. the Cafe de Grasta seems almost like a dining hall in its size. But understand this: it is not a dining hall. Having been open for only a week or so, the cafe provides a much needed restaurant on the north side of campus. So for all those North Quadders who feel left out with the abundance of restaurants on the south side of campus, there is relief, final­ly. 
Awards: 

• 
Strangest name. 


• 
Most unknown campus restaurant. 



Cafe Poche, Bond Hall 
Probably one of those other places mostly everyone at Notre Dame has never visited, Cafe Poche at Bond Hall indeed is a lost treasure among cam­pus eateries. Boasting daily specials like other cafes, the small restaurant hawks salads and sandwiches as well. 
And despite the lack of a large eating area, a visit to Cafe Poche can be a bright spot on anyone's day. 
Awards: 

• 
Best customer service. 


• 
Most enthusiastic lady at the counter. 

• 
Most Italian eatery. 

• 
Coolest building. 



.. ...... 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 4, 2000 
w • <::awe W C C 2Q!2'4
w 


Irish 
continued from page 24 
And that's something the No. 5 Irish squad is not used to. 
"We're not nt>rvous about the game," said Siemon. "We're really excitAd to see how we measure up and how far we've comt> and how far we need to go," 
Hoth squads c1rn averaging scores in the ?Os -the Irish have tallied an average of 77.2 points per game, just four more points than the Eagle offense. 
The two teams have both have held their opponents to just 60.2 points a game -making a blowout by eithr>r team on Saturday unlikely. 
I think it's a game that is going to go right down to the very end,'' said Siemon. "'We'rn expecting a good game." 
Despite tho r.lose matchup. thA lrish squad is on a roll and is becoming more formidable with each notch they put in the win r,ol­umn. 
With 14 straight wins, the Irish could tie a school record for most consecutive wins with a victory over the Eagles and bolster their 18-2 record. 
The Irish squad is also clinging fast to a 17-game home-winning streak -the longest in the pro­gram's history. 
But Notre Dame head coach Muffet McGraw will need top perfor­mances from her entire squad in order to keep the streaks alive. 
Center Ruth Riley has led the Irish under the basket all season. Hiley, the top scorer and rebounder on the 
Irish squad, has dominated her opponents in the paint. The junior All-American candidate hasn't done it alone. 
She has had some help off lhe bt~nch from freshman Amanda Barksdale. The 6-foot-3 reserve cen­ter registered her best career per­formances in the last two games and has come alive on defense with 30 blocks on the season. 
Siemon has also played a big role for the Irish off the bench. She played her best basketball of the season in Notre Dame's 90-60 rout­ing of Providence Tuesday with a career-high 23 points. 
"[Tuesday] was a good opportunity for a lot of' players to get some good playing time," said Siemon. "We got into some foul trouble at the post so I got to play a couple extra minutes and I capitalized on the opportuni­
ty... 
The trio of Niclc Ivey, Danielle Green and Alicia Ratay in the Irish back court has kept opponents' defenses scrambling. 
Notre Dame's strength in the paint coupled with a sharp-shooting group of guards will keep the Eagles on their toes. 
Eagle guard Cal Bouchard leads the Boston College offense, averag­ing 16 points a game. Three other Eagle starters are averaging in dou­ble-digits. 
The notion of' home court advan­tage rings true in Notre Dame's series with Boston Col!P.gc. 
The two teams met twice last sea­s on and split victories with each squad winning on its .own turf and that's precisely the way the Irish are looking to keep it this year with a win Saturday. 


Guard Danielle Green shoots the ball over a Georgetown defender. Green had 16 points in Notre Dame's win over Providence Tuesday. 
NBA 

Malone may sit out All-Star game 
camp, then hurt it again Tuesday against
Associated Press 

Seattle. Another consideration is a tendon on 
the middle finger of his shooting hand. 
SALT LAKE CITY which he reinjured last week at Portland. In 
If Karl Malone is serious about sitting out recent seasons, Malone has played with the the All-Star game, he didn't let on Thursday finger in a splint. as he made a hasty exit from the Delta "I think the rest would do him good,'' said Center aftPr Utah's morning shootaround. Jazz trainer Mike Shimensky. 
He referred all questions to a higher Malone's agent, Dwight Manley, said his authority. client plans to play Utah's four remaining 
"Call up God. Why don't you ask God?" games before the All-Star break, starting Malone said while striding toward the park­Thursday against Milwaukee, but miss the ing lot. Feb. 13 All-Star game in Oakland, Calif. 
Malone reportedly is threatening to sit out "He wants to take time off to heal his body the All-Star game, citing a recurring back during the All-Star break," Manley said by injury. lie strained his back during training telephone from his Los Angeles office. 
Track 
continued from page 24 
Head track and field coach Joe Piane is aiming for improvement among athletes with a shot at qualifying for the NCAAs or scor­ing points in the Big East meet. 
On the women's side, the best chances for scoring lie in Liz Grow in the 400-meter run, All­American Alison Klemmer in the 5.000-meter run. long jumper Tameisha King and All-American high jumper Jennifer Engelhardt. 
"There's going to be some good competition for my race," Klemmer said. "So I'll just try to run with them and hopefully come through in a time that's close' to qualifying for nationals." 
For the men, Piane is focusing on 800-meter runner Mishka. miler Watson, 400-meter runner Chris Cochran, thrower Thompson, pole vaulters Nathan Cahill and Josh Heckand dis­tance medley relay team of Mishka, Cochran, Tim Kober and Watson. 
"There are going to be at least one or two All-Americans in the race," Watson said. "It's going tu be a great opportunity for me to see what l can do. I'm going to put it all on the line and hopeful­ly surprise myself." 
This will be the first major meet of the season for the Irish, who are using the Meyo lnvite as a tune-up for the Big East cham­pionships in two weeks. 

The Observer acceprs dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righr ro edir all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE at x3633 if you have an extra ticket. AND CLOSE Here HAG here is a classified all I AM NOT A COPY EDITOR! THIS http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ the way to you in Texas IS NOT MY JOB!!! •KICKS PRINT­
NOTICES WANTED 
email:mmmrentals@aol.com ER' YOU NEED TO EDIT PAGES 
PERSONAL
232-2595 Noreen, I am removing the death flu BETTER BECAUSE I AM NOT A 
LOSE WEIGHT\ Student organizations earn $1,000-curse I hope you feel better COPY EDITOR! IF YOU DON'T DO EAT WHAT YOU LIKE! $2,000 with the easy campus-6 BEDRM. '00-'01 www.thecommentator.com A BETTER JOB, YOU WILL BE WEIGHT WATCHERS BRAND-fundraiser.com three hour fundrais-$1200/mo. 273-0482 that's matt Orenchuk FIRED!! NEW ON CAMPUS PROGRAM ing event. No sales required. My house burnt down last M-A-T-T O-R-E-N-C-H-U-K Your super-convenient dream diet Fundraising dates are filling quickly, NICE HOMES FOR NEXT Tuesday.Late last week, tile Fire I knew I should have quit when I from a name you trust Is coming to so call today! Contact campus-SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND Dept informed me !hat my dog ts it good or bad to win at late night had the chance Notre Dame and St. Mary's' No lundraiser.com, (888) 923-3238, or EXCELLENT NEIGHBORHOOD (dalmation) must have escaped the olympics? How much of a desire do complicated counting! Eal pizza, visit www.campusfundraiser.com. CLOSE 2773097 fire.I am offering a $1000.00 reward you really have to play a cllampi-I just could have walked out and cake-any food you crave and lose for her return. Call Chris 246-1338. onship bball game at 4 a.m. that would have been the end 
weight. Get five info-packed book-Professor needs 3 hrs. help on B'NB REGISTRY 219-291-7153 lets. tons of super-easy recipes, small farm 1 mile from N.D. to bone and cj I'd rather play cups at 4 a,m, should have listened to MacKenzie and specialized online support from 277-5328 Email Ford.1@nd edu happy birthday trained Weight Watchers statt. You let's set sail shoot, I still have 25 ski team inch-now its too late
FOR SALE 

pay Just $79 lor 7 weeks. Start the Living off-campus next year and love, the captain es to write 
millennium right-register today over seeking a female roommate. Email ok I have written enough now the phone: 1-800-651-6000. Visa. me at ghanlon@dellnet.com New Phone Card 886 mins. $20 connolly the couch is mine MasterCard and Discover accepted. 258-4805 or 243-9361 you K-Smitty has self control ... she ain't 
WANTED have six weeks is way to short no HAC-Ky sack. 2 Tx '93 FORD ESCORT GT. no MBBall ND-UCONN 5-SPD, NC, EXG. COND idea I want at least 12 Lauren is gonna work with me,
LOST & FOUND 
Please call 73K. krupa whoopee... life is getting really 
Alan 634-4469 $4100 o/b/o 12 might be enough good.. My house burnt down last 616-683-6705. 1ess Tuesday.Late last week the Fire smile Chas ... what's up with that guy? Kerry wants me to go faster ... i am Dept informed me that my dog 1991 Honda accord EX the house an accelerating machine. 
FOR RENT

(dalmation) must have escaped the 88,000 miles $6000 No, chuk you can't embezzle fire.I am offering a $1000.00 reward 219-273-8483 pq For all the fools who thought I for-for her return. Call Chris 246-1338. 6BDRM HOME. sing like the wind. some of my early production was got... it is now sweeps month ... and 
FURN.AVAIL defmelty shady 90210 is nearing the final tum. Next LOST NOW.$150. PER. 272-6306 cocks week will be one of the most signili-
TICKETS

Purple caboodle kit i miss you tonight do wah diddy diddy dum diddy cant episodes ever.. Dylan. Kelly, w/ acrylic paints & supplies on 2·6 BDRM HOMES.'00-'01 272-krupa must have been a Reinthaler night Donna, Gina... don't miss the fire­1/31/00. Call Rebecca 251-9535 6306 NEED ONE TICKET FOR FEB. 12 works. God Bless Aaron Spelling. 
UCONN GAME. Please call Chad oh I 901 an idea thal's better lhan a MacKenzie night 
,---------<... ~----------,_ 
------~-----------------...-:----------~--~ 
Friday, February 4, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
...,.. 
~ 

-··-~r ·,fff{ •. -~r..~ rHE FOLLOWING IS A LIST OF ALL ff RSI ROUND GAMES 
Friday, February 4 

F'. R ALL LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS TEAMS. 
7:00PM-4:00AM

TIMES F'. R. FURTHER GAMES WILL BE DETERMINED 
Joyce. Cent~r

AT THE END OF' THE FIRST ROUND. 
-:':::-./;::;:631-6100{i\-·• 

Be a Real Champion -Support Special Olympics!!! All LNO Midals Wer/Do11at~d by 
the Notre Dame;Ali~~,;,,;·..t'~;ociatio11
r: ·-: Ir,:: ~~ $1.00 Donation Requested at the Door 
'0~ ·P 

WALSH /  S . RIN  ST. ED'S /  FARLEY  
Voa..t..a:v•"'-'­ TIP:-""'A  a,ao  Ma:N'• RACIIUICT ¦ ALL.  CALI..  1•610C  VOl.,L,..;YltALL  TCAM A  813D  MCN 1 ¦ FIAUQUCT ¦ ALI.  NA  
Tc.-.M a  ?1aa  WOMCN'¦  f'AQC,UETIIALt..  DALI..  1•6100  TSAM 8  EIICD  WQMEN1 ¦ RAGG)Ut:TaAI-L  CA~~  1 Ao1ca  
TEAht A  9100  McN·• e ..DOMD-ALL.  ''!ihOD  MEN' ¦ BA ¦t<ICT•ALL  Tl:AM A  9149  MICN 1 ¦ R ..DOM¦ ALL  1z,aa  
Tl'!AM B  NA  WOMCN1 ¦ BIIOtH•4••'-'­ 9100  Tt:AM B  911 S  WOMl!!H'• a1111aoM ¦ ALL  NA  
T~AM A  9100  KtGK8A\.I,.  7100  WOMEN1 ¦ BA ¦ M:ETBAI-L  TEAM A  llh15  KtcK ¦ ALL  Bl:110  
TE:AM B  NA  TlltAM B  NA  
Tt:AM A  9115  Wtf",-LE ¦ At.l.­ TE"M /J,.  t0t4!!1,  Ne,.,-F"DOT9AL-L  Tir:.-.... A  '71:!IO  W1,n.tt ¦ Al.L.  TEAM A  8130  
TEAM 9  7145  TIE'A.M B  e,oo  TEAMI 8  2100  TE"M B  10145  
TJUUll!T GDL.r  TE.AM A  9130  MoN ¦ Tl!:11  00DOCIIALL  I :Z1DD  TAIIIIOET GoLr  TEAM A  B115  MDN ¦ TIE,.  OOEUIE ¦ ALI.,  NA  
Tl:AM B  8145  INNE:flT"UII.C WATl:fl Pen.a  Tm:AM A  10130  Te:A'"" a  NA  INNEIIITU ¦ E WATCR POLO  TEAM A.  a,oo  
cc-Rec SDCClCft  TO:AMA  '11100  TO:"M a  NA  TEAM A  7100  Tt:AM B  NA  
TCAM B  11130  LNO C••T•a~IC COUfl ¦ I!;  nAM A  10145  TEA."4 B  12100  LND D ¦¦ TADLIC COUR ¦ E  TEAM A  10145  
KAYAKINfl  TEAM A  10140  TE.-.M Ii  NA  ICAVAk.lN ¦  TICAM A  12120  T1tAM 8  9115  
TEAM B  NA  T-" ¦ Llt T~NNI ¦  CALL 1~&100  TICAM 8  NA  CALL  1•6100  

LYONS / ALUMNI / McCANDLESS 

HOWARD / MORRISSEY/ LEMANS 
VaL.LICV ¦ •LL TCAM A UCTIIALL NA VOLL.E'Y'BALL TCA"4 A 7100 MEN1¦ AAa~UllltT8ALL CALL 1•8100 TEAM El •~.~lH~TIIAl.L CALL 1•0100 Te•.,. a 9100 WOMEN'¦ R.-.o-.u11:T.Al.l. NA To:""' A NA TEAM A 9IOO M~N1 ¦ IIIIIIIOftMIIAl.L Bl3D T1'AM g 8130 T1'AM B 9130 WCJMEN 1 ¦ 8"00M ¦ ALI.. 9130 
WaMEN1¦ BA¦KET¦ALL TE:AM A 7100 WcMCN1¦ EIA¦ Kll::T¦ AI.I. TEAM A v11 !S K1otc ¦ ALi.. 7120 TEAMS TEAM B NA NCflU" f°'OOT ¦ Al..L. TEA.MA 10130 NCIIIP' ~ODT ¦ ALL l'EAM A 7131] TEAM A B100 TCAM S NA TEAM B 11145 TEAM 8 10115 T.4.RGl:T GOLP" TCAM A 12100 TANGET GDLP" TEAM A NA MaN ¦ TCN DaDal: ¦ AL.L I 311JO TEAM II TEAM A NA Tll!:AM B NA INNCIIIIIITU ¦ E WATCN PDLtl TEAM A NA Ca•RED BOCCIE"-TEAM A TEAM B NA Co•REC SaccER TEAM A 11100 TEAM B NA TEAM 8 TEAM A 9145 TEAM B 9130 LNO Oa ¦TADLC CDUll ¦ E Tl:AM A 10130 
NA

KAVAKlNQ TCAM A TEAM B NA KAYAKING TEAM A 10100 TEAM 8 
, 

TEAM B CALL 1•0100 TEAM B 11120 TAIILIC TENNI ¦ CALL 1•0100 
. LL/ BADIN/ HOLY CROSS 
VOLLEYBALL TEAM A 7130 TA,.IIET OoLr B130 T1'AM B 9130 ca_Ao:0 SOCC1' ¦ 9100 MEN ¦ BA¦KET¦ALL TEAM A 9115 LNO D ¦¦ TACLE COUR ¦ t: 10115
1 

TEAM B NA TA¦LE TENNI¦ CALL 1•6100 NE1'r F'DOTBALL TEAM A 7100 
PANGBORN / FISHER 
VOLLEYl!IALL TEAM A 9130 CALL I •8100 
7100 CALL 1•8100 8100 9100 
NA 
NA TEAM 8 NA 12100 
a.EA.MA 
9130 

KAYAK,NII 
1•6100 
NA 

1a100 8100 WOMEP•.a'a BA ¦ KETIIALL 9100 TCAM B NCfl:fP ,=-aoT ¦ ALL TEAM A TEAM A 8145
'ii'1ts. WIP'FLE•At..L TEA.MS 7115 Tl:AM 8 NA TANGE:T CJOLP" TEAM A NA DOODEIIALL
MDN ¦ TC:11 12100 TEAM B NA INNE,.TU ¦ E WA.TEii POLO TEAM A 8130 Ca•Re:::a Sacai::,-TEAM A 7130 NA
TEAM 8 TEAM B 10,00 LNO Oa ¦ TACLE COUll ¦E TEA,.. A 10130 LND D ¦¦ TAGLE COUllll ¦ E TEAM A 10130 TEAM A
KAYAKfNCI 9,ao TIEAM B 9140 TCAM B Vt00 TEAM B 11,00 TABLE TENNI ¦ NA TAIILE TE.HNI ¦ CALL 1•0100 
DILLON/ LEWIS STANFORD / BREEN-PHILLIPS / KEENAN 
VDLLEY¦ALL TEAM A MEN1¦ CALL
7130 RACQUl:T8AL1. 1•0100 

VDLLEY ¦ ALL TEAM A 7130 MEN1¦ RACQUETBALL CALL. 1•0100 TEAM B NA WOMCN1 ¦ RACQUETBALL I •O I DO
CALL TEAM B a100 WaMEN'¦ AAGC.-UICT¦ALL NA MEN1¦ BA¦KET¦ALL TEAM A 1h45 MEN1¦ e..oOMBALL 
1100 

MEN1 ¦ BA¦ KETBALL TEAM A 9115 MEN'¦ BIIODMIIALL B13D 9130 a TEAM B NA WOMEN'¦ BNDDM¦ALL NA
TEAM 8 WaMEN1a ..DDMIIA.LL B130 WOMEN1 ¦ BA ¦ l<CT8Al.L 9&30
TEAM-A KICKBALL e100 

TEAM A NA KtCK ¦ ALL 7140 TEA"' B NA 
TEAM Ill NA 

NEltP' FaoT ¦ ALl.. Tt!!AM A .,, , !S 
Wi~LC ¦ ALL 1a1aa 

NE:Nr f"tl0TBALL TEAM A '51130 Wl,,,-Ll: ¦ ALL.. TO:AM A NA TEAM 8 11100 
TEAM B Br45 

Tll:AM B NA TO:AM 9 NA TAIIIOET 0CJLI" TEAM A 
NA MON ¦ TCJII: 000IIE:IIALL 12100 

Tl:AM A NA MoN ¦ TEft O0DDCBALL. 12100 TEAM B NA INNCNTUBE WAT~II POLO TCAM A NA 
TCAM B NA INNC,..TtJIIC WATEII POLO TC.AM /4. NA 
Co-Rica aacc&ft TEAM A 
J 1130 TICAt.M B l'IA 

TEAM A B100 TCAM 8 NA TEO,,.. B B130 LNQ Dll ¦TADLE COUll ¦ E TEAM A 9130 
Tlt'AM B NA LNO 0D¦ TA0l.E CIOUIO ¦ E TEAM A 10115 KAYAk.lNa 
TEAM A NA TEAM B NA 

kAYAICfNII TEAM A NA TEA"' B f<IA TE4M B NA TA¦LE TENNI¦ CALL 1•0100 
Tll'.AM 9 NA TABLE TENNI ¦ CALL. 1•6100 
ZAHM / CAVANAUGH / REGINA 

. 'NEILL/ MCGLINN 
V0L.L£'\'IIALL 
TIE.AM A 7130 MEN18 AACQUETIIALL CAI..L 1 •6 t 00 VOLLEYBALL Tt::AM A 7130 MC:N 1 ¦ RIADQUll:"r¦ ALL CALL 1 ,.11:1 I 0. TtAM B NA WOME~•• RAOQUl!!TIIAL.L CALL 1•61 D0 
fiAM B 8100 WDMll'N1 ¦ RADQUIET.ALL NA. TteAM A NA Mc:t,.'e BlllaOMGAL.L BIDO 
MEN 1¦ EIA•Kl:T8•LL TEAM A 9100 Mtt:N' ¦ lllll'noM ¦ ALl. v,oo Tll:AM 9 NA WOMl:N1• a..ooM.A&.-1.. 
1 'Zt'30 TEAM R v,oc WOMIE'N1• a ..onM•ALL t 2100 WOMEN'• R•eKCTDALL, Tc.-.M A 
,,1 :1 

KIOKIIAI..L Eh40 WOMEN'• BA.KlltTIIIAl-l,. TEAM A NA ICIOKIIAt-L. aioa TEAM B 9100 
TEAM B NA 

Ne:t11r F"OOT ¦ ALL 
TEAM A 9145 !111 S NCftP' ~OGT ¦ Al.L TEAM A 9130 w,,..,.,_,~•At..l.. TIEAM A 811!'1 i-r....,.. a NA 
NA TEAM B 7100 TEAM B 10130 TA,.01:T Got..,­
TEAM A 9101] ....ON ¦TICft Ooootr:¦ALL 12,00 TAMGE.T IJOLP' TEAM A 8130. MON ¦ l'ltlll 00001:IIALL 1 2100 TEAM 9 a, 1 5­
INNEIITUDC WATl:k PDLD TEAM A 9130 'YttAM B 8145 INNl:1'TU ¦ E WATEfl POLCJ TK:AM A 1ihC0 Co-REC BDCOEl''I: 
Tl:AM A 10100 TICAM 6 9100 TlltAMA 11100 T"'AM II 1 0100 TEAM B B130 
I.NO Oe¦TACLE Ccu•¦E TICAM A 10100 TEAM B 7r00 LND O ¦¦ TACLE Cou• ¦ E TEAM A 911 !I KAYAICIND 
TEAM A 12100 

TEAM 8 9100 TEAM 8
Te:•"' A 10120 9145 TcAM a NA TA¦ ~IIC T£NNI ¦ CALL 1 •e. I DO TO:"M 8 NA TA ¦ l.E TotNNI ¦ CALL 1 •8 I 00 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 4, 2000 
--NBA 
Ewing provides spark for Knicks 98-88 win 
Dallas 106, Charlotte 96 attempts. the Delta Center. 
Associated Press 
Michael Pinley scored 3 2 Duncan shot 11-for-21 from Karl Malone led the Jazz points. including seven in a the field and 10-for-10 from with 28 points. John StocktonNEWYOHK row to open the fourth quar­the line. doing almost all his added 18. Brvon Russell 14Patrick Ewing showed the ter, and the Dallas Maverk,ks damage in lhe second an<l and Jeff Hornacck 12.
Portland Trail Blazers and his went on for a victory over the third quarters when San There were 23 leadcritics that his career in New Charlotte Hornet.-::. Anlonio took control with changes and 18 ties. EveryYork is not quite done yet. 
Erick Strickland added a runs of 10-0 and 20-2. time the Jazz charged, AllenEwing. thf' subject of criti­season-high 23 points as the Duncan. who reached 30 answered. Allen sank 3-of-4
cism and trade rumors this 
Mavericks closed out a 4-1 points for the 12th time this free throws in the final
week. energized the Knicks 
homestand with their eighth season, left the game for good minute to give the Bucks aby matching his season-high victory in their last 11 games. with 5:24 remaining and the 99-97 advantage. 
with 20 points as New York Finley, pointing toward his Spurs ahead by 18. Stockton answered with acooled off the streaking Trail 
first All-Star berth, has Avery Johnson added 19 driving lay-up with 2.6 sec­Blazers 98-88 Thursday 
scored 30 points or more 10 points, Malik Hose had 15 onds remaining to tie it 99­night. 
times this season. Ile added and Terry Porter 13 for the 99.
Ewing. benched for the 

nine rebounds and four Spurs, who were without Robinson, selected to joinfinal 17 minutes in Tuesday assists. David Robinson (bruised Allen as an East All-Starnight's loss to Orlando. woke Before the game, Mavericks shoulder\. rcscrv,~. hit a long jumperup Wednesday to a story in owner-to-be Mark Cuban Tracy McGrady had 21 to with 1:00 rnmaining to givethe newspaper that said the announced a one-year agree­lead Toronto, which had its the Bucks a 96-95 lead. KarlKnkks discussed a trade with 
ment with forward Dennis four-game winning streak Malone answered with two
the Wizards that would have Rodman. The Dallas native is snapped. freA throws to reclaim thesent him to Washington. 
expected to make his Toronto made its first seven advantage for Utah. 
Ewing helped the Knicks Maverit:ks debut Feb. 9 shots, and when Doug The Jazz haven't lost five

take control in the third quar­
against Seattle at Reunion Christie finally missed one consecutive games since
ter with seven points, four 
Arena. Dell Curry grabbed the offen­March 1994. a strntch of 435
rebounds and two blocks. 
Eddie Jones· 21 points and sive rebound and turned it games.
After Bonzi Wells nearly 
Derrick Coleman's 19 paced into a 3-poinlor for an 18-8 · Malonf' put Utah ahead 79­brought Portland back in the the Hornets, who had won six lead. The Raplors were 77 with 9:57 remaining with
fourth quarter, Ewing re­
of their previous eight. ahead :H-27 after the first an l 8-foot jumper from theentered the game and helped 
Dallas took an 81-75 lead quarter, but San Antonio right side. The Bucks are
end the Blazers· six-game 
into the final quarter with the started to take charge mid­accustomed to Malone's bigwinning streak. 
help of Finley's layup with 0.2 way through the second and games, having seen him score
Ewing hit a high-arcing 

seconds left in the third quar­used a 10-0 run to go ahead a season-high 40 points onjumpPr OVfff Rasheed Wallace ter. 46-44. Nov. 20 at Milwaukee.
to give New York an 85-77 
Then Finley_ scored seven A lay-up by Duncan with

lead with 4:55 to play. After 
unanswered points to open 2:17 left in the first half gave

Wells scored. Ewing hit a Houston 109,
the fourth quarter, capped by the Spurs the lead for good. 

baseline jumper and set up 
Philadelphia 106
a 3-pointer with 10:22 left for lt was 56-51 at halftime as

Marcus Camby underneath. 
an 88-75 lead. Duncan had 16 points and On the night the HocketsCamby was fouled by Wallace The Mavericks went on to nine rebounds and Johnson retired Clyde Drexler's No. 22and hit two free throws. 
lead by as many as 19 points scored 11, and the Spurs jersey, Shandon AndersonEwing then hit a spin move after converting their first quickly opened a double-digit scored a career-high 32in the lane to make it 91-79. 
nine field goal attempts of the lead in the third quarter as points as Houston beat thethe Knicks' biggest lead of the fourth quarter. not missing their 20-2 run fueled by six Philadelphia 76ers. 
game. 
until Strickland's failed 20-points from Johnson turned Allen Iverson scored 40Allan Houston led New 
footer with 4:41 to play. the game into a rout. points for the Sixers. ButYork with 22 points, Latrell Anderson had nine during aDallas led 57 -50 at halftimeSprewell had 14, Camby 13 behind Strickland's 15 points. 15-0 run that began late in
and Charlie Ward 12. Ewing Milwaukee 102, Utah 99 
the third quarter and sent
added nine rebounds and Glenn Robinson's 3-pointer Houston to its third straightthree blocks in 36 minutes. San Antonio 112, at the buzzer gave the victory.
Wells scored all 18 of his Milwaukee Bucks a victory
Toronto 95 Drexler. who won an NBA
points in the fourth quarter, over Utah, giving the Jazz a
Tim Duncan had 32 points, championship ring while with 
including Portland's first 15 five-game losing streak for
17 rebounds and seven the Rockets, now is a college
of the period. Steve Smith the first time in almost six
assists and the San Antonio coach at Houston.
had 18 and Damon years.
Spurs held Vince Carter to a His number was retired
Stoudamire added 16. With the score tied 99-99,
dunk-free night in a victory. during a 36-minute halftime
Wallace got ejected with Hobinson took an in-bounds

With the memorv of Carter ceremony that included his
1:08 left and threw his wrist­pass from Vinny Del Negro
scoring 39 against them less college teammate, Rockets
band at referee Joey and stepped back and sank
than a month old, Duncan star Hakeem Olajuwon, along 
Crawford. It was Wallace's the shot over the outstretched
called it "another revenge with Julius Erving, Jack
third ejection of the season. arm of Adam Keefe.
game for us" during the Ramsey. Buck Williams and
Scottie Pippen. playing his Robinson was 4-for-4 on 3­

team's morning shoot­Kiki Vandeweghe.
first game against the Knicks pointers.
around. 

out of a Bulls uniform. was Hay Allen, who scored a
That mindset showed as

booed throughout the game season-high 36 points for
San Antonio double-teamed

by the New York crowd, Milwaukee, made 5-of-7 3­
Carter nearly every time he

Pippen finished with 11. pointers.
touched the ball and held him 

The Knicks broke open a Allen and hit three free
to 19 points, five below his

tight game in the third quar­throws in the linal minute to
average. After shooting 4-for-
Clippers fire Ford after two years 

Associated Pres., 
LOS ANGELES 

Chris Ford was fired as coach of the Los Angeles Clippers on Thursday, following humiliating losses to Golden State and Phoenix by a combined 77 points. 
Ford was in the second year of a three-year contract with the Clippers, who are 11-34 including 16 losses in the last 18 games. 
Ford, 51, was replaced by assistant .Jim Todd, whose first game as inter­im coach is Saturday night against Dallas. 
"Chris is a good person and his efforts should be acknowledged," said Elgin Baylor, the team·s vice presi­dent of basketball operations. "But it has simply reached the point where the gap bAtween the actual results and where we think we should be ­based on our talent level -is just too wide. 
"I just think it was time to make a change. We thought we'd be a lot bet­ter record-wise than we are now. It's always tough when you lose, it's tough when you have to dismiss someone. He was OK with it. handled it very professionally." 
Ford was hired in January 1999 ­shortly before the start of the lockout­shortened 1998-99 season. The team went 9-41, but had high hopes before this season based on a nucleus of sev­eral talented young players led by Lamar Odom, the fourth pick in last summer's draft. 
But things haven't worked out. 

"This is pretty bad," Ford said after a 114-68 loss at Phoenix on Wednesday night. "Feeling sorry for yourself' doesn't help. If you have to get mad, you should take it out on the opposition." 
Starting point guard Eric Murdock called the defeat "embarrassing," and a night earlier, following a 107-76 loss to Golden State at home several players said the teain was '"unpre­pared." 
Todd. 4 7, coached the Clippers to two victories in as many games in December when Ford was unable to coach because of back spasms. 
ter. frustrating the Blazers help the Bucks win for the
6 in the first quarter, Carter

with their aggressiveness. first time in eight games at
drawing fouls and grabbing offensive rebounds. New York used an 8-0 run to 
break a 56-56 tie and led 73-64 after three. 
The Knicks, coming off their worst home loss of the vear. came out firing, hitting five 3-pointers in a high­scoring first quarter. Portland led 29-28 before two of' the stingiest defensive teams tightened up in the second quart.r.r. 
New York. playing without backup point guard Chris Childs. went to the big back­court of Sprewell and Houston and scored one basket in 11 pos­sessions. But Port­land also struggled from the field. hitting 6-of-22 shots in the quarter and the Trail Blazers led 46-45 at halftime. 





ALL STADIUM SEATING • ALL DIGITAL SOUND 
SHOWPLACE 16 
Just West of Main St. on Chi ewa • 299-6063 Students and Seni~~s s4!'.s~:A.~~il!)_e 
)s4_50 All Shows Before 6 pm • Advance Ticket Sales Available :)' 5, 
; 

All Times for Fch . .J-6 Onl~· Saturday ,'ii Sunday Matinees in Brackets 
; Scream 3 (R) !ligi1al Next Friday (RI DigitalI11 :.,o 2: 10) 4:45 7:30 I0: l.'i 1·12:20 2:351 'i: 10 7:45 l0:05 [12:(X) 2:40] 5:15 8:rnl 10:45 Girl Intermptcd (R) Digital 
,II :(Xll .NO 6:.,0 9: 15 I2:15) 5:<XJ 7:40 10:40 
[l:401 4:15 7:!Xl 9:45 Galaxy Quest (P(~) Digital Eye of the Beholder (R\ J)igital I12: 15 '.':45] 5:05 n::, 9:55 
112:05 '.!JO] 4:50 7:20 1):40 Stuart Littk• (PG) Digital 
End of the \ffair (R) lligilal [ 1155 2:05J -UO 6:40 9:<Xl [ 12:J0 2:50] 5:20 7:50 IO: JO The Green Mile tRl Digital 
; Angela's A.,h1..-; (R) Digital 112:10] 4:25 8:10 
[12:40] 3:50 7:10 10:20 Toy Story 2 (G) Digital 
; , Dmrn to You (l'G-13) Digit,11 [I I ;40 2:20] 4:55 7:25 9:50 
II I :'iO 2:(Xll 4:20 6:50 9:'.!0 Deuce Bigalow: Male Gigolo (R) D1mtal The Hurricane IRI Digilal I12:50 3: JO] 5:10 8:20 I0:35 I1:051 4:10 7:15 I0:2'i 
----------·--·----~·-·--·----­
ONLY $1 00 AU Shows Before 6 pm


SconsoALE 6 
• Everyone • Everyday Scottsdale Mall • 299-6063 $1,50 All Evening Shows ;/ 6. 
The World Is Not Enough (PG-U) Bone Collector (R) 
[1:50] -1:40 7:10 JO:()()

11 :Wj 4:(Xl 6:50 <J-40 Double .JcoJ.ntrdy (R)
Do~ma (RJ 
Il:401 ·UO 7:30 9:5:\

[l:IO] -1:10 7:iXJ 9:50 Pok~mon (G)
' Sn1,ernova (PG-B) II:201 4:20 6:45 9:<Xl
•. 11 JO] -1:50 7:20 9JO 


JU 

Friday, February 4, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

rHE FOLLOWING IS A UST OF ALL FIRST ROUND GAMES 
Friday, February 4 
F". R ALL LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS TEAMS. 
7:00 PM -4:00 AM 
TIMES F. R FURTHER GAMES WILL BE DETERMINED 
AT THE END .F THE FIRST ROUND. Joyce Center 631-6100. Be a Real Champion -Support Special Olympics!!! All LNO Medals Were Do11aled by the Notre Dame Alumni Associatio,r 
$1.00 Donation Requested at the Door 
WALSH / SORIN ST. ED'S/ FARLEY 
Voll..LIEYAAL.L 7E.-.MA a,ao MICN 1¦ AACQUCTaALL. CA.LL 1·6100 VQt-,Ll!:VIIALL. TEAM A 91::JO MICN 1 ¦ AAC~UICT ¦ AL-l. NA Tc... M e 7100 WOMCN 1¦ R-ACQU~TIIALL CALL 1 ··di 1 00 TC.AM B a,co W0MCN 1¦ RA.CqlUETBAL&.. CALL 1 .. ,e, 1 OD 
MEN' ¦ 8A ¦ KC:TDAI..L .,..EAM A 910C Ml::N1 ¦ BIIOOM ¦ AL.L.. 9100 MIC,-.'¦ EIA ¦ KCT ¦ AL..L TC:AM A '$h4S MCN 1¦ Bi.ooMeAL~ 12130 TeA.M B NA WOMEN' ¦ BRDDMIIA.LL 910D TE'AM 8 911 5 WOMEN1¦ BACJOM¦ AL.L NA Tl!'.'-.M A 9,. c l(ICIKBALL 7,00 WrtM~N1 8 9A.¦kl!'TIIALL Tr:A.M A 91\5 l<ICK.IIALL B120 TC.a.MB NA 'TEAM B NA 
Nc11.-rooTa.,.,,LL TEAM A 9rl5 Wt,-Tl.E114t.l.. TC.AM A 1th4!i5 TEAM A ?J30 W1.,...L1CltALL TEAM A 8130 T"°AM B 7145 TCAM B 8100 TC:AM B 2100 TEAM B 1014!5 TA"'OCT 0Ql,.,C TE.AM A 91:30 MON.TC"-0CJDOC:DAL.L. 12100 TE:AM A a, I 5 MDf'-t•Tr;" tJOOOl!;flALI.. NA TEAM B B145 INNl:11.TUB£ WATE:111 POLO TEAM A 10130 TEAM 8 NA INNt:ftTU ¦ E WA.TEii PCLQ TCAM A a100 
Co·Rr:o S0CCl!:R T!:,t.M A <;1100 T~•M 8 NA tr:.&.M A 7100 Tr:AM B NA TICAM B 11130 LNC ca.TA.CLE Cou• ¦E TEAM A. 10145 TE.-..M 8 ll2100 LNO O ¦¦ TACC..~ Cau11•~ T!rAM A 10145 Tc.-..M A tCt.40 TIE.... B t-1/4.. KAt.VAt.klM<I Tc._._. A ,2,20 Tll!A...,. B 01t 9 TCAM B NA CALL 1·151 OD TC:AM S NA T.-. ¦ LE TICNNI ¦ CAL.I. 1-6100 
LYONS / ALUMNI / MCCANDLESS 
HOWARD/ M . RRISSEY / LEMANS 
VOLLEVBALL TEA"'4 A. '7130 C .._ ~.OQUETIIALt.. NA VOLL.E"Y'IIALL T1tA""4 A. 7100 Mr:N 1 ¦ RACQUa:T ¦ ALl. CALL I •1\5100 T~.-."'1 8 
LL CALL 1•6100 TEAM 8 910 . WOMEN' ¦ RACQUIE.TIIALL MA 
Mr:"4 1 ¦ BA ¦ K!:T!I.A\.L TEAM A NA ME:t-l ¦ BA ¦ Kf!TIIALL Tr::AM A 910 . Me:w'a s..CIDMIIALL B130 Tl!:AM B 8130 TEAM B 9130 WaMEN1a 811100MBALL V•:J0 Tt:AM A 7100 WDM-EN1 ¦ 8A¦ KETltALL. TC:AM A 9115 KtCK ¦ ALL 7120 TEAM B TC.A.MS NA 
NEJII'" F'00TIIAI.L TS:AiM A TICAM A 10130 NrMP' F°DOTIIAt-L TE-'M A 7130 Wtl"P'LIC8ALL. "fgAM A 8100 TEAMS Tc,a.M a NA TCAM S 1114!1 TCAM 8 10115 TIIICAM A 12100 TEAM A NA Mc:tN ¦ TCN 0DQDE ¦ A'-L. 121cc TE.-.M S TEAM A NA TEAM B NA )NNICftTU ¦ E WATCR PaL.a l'CAM A NA 
Co•Rt:c 80CCEIIII TEAM A TEAM 13 NA Co-Rice SOCCER TEAM A 11,00 t"EAM B NA TEAM B TEAM A 9,45 TEAMS 9i30 LNO Oll ¦ TACLE CDUlll ¦ E TEAM A 101:JO KAVAKtNO TEAM A TE.AM B NA TEAM A 1 . ioo TEAM B NA TEAM B CALL 1·6100 TEAM B 11120 TABLE TENNl8 CAI.L I•& I 00 
. LL/ BADIN/ HOLY CROSS 
VOI-LEYIIIALL TEAM A 7130 TA...0-ET OOLr a13o TEAM B 9130 Co_A&:C SoccE" 9100 MEN 1 ¦ BA ¦ ICETBALL TEAM A 911 S LNO Oa ¦ TACLE COUll ¦ E 10115 Tt::AM B NA TABLE TE...,NI ¦ CALL 1·61 00 NE..~ F'DDTltALL TEAM A 7100 
PANGBORN / FISHER 
VOLLEVIIAL 
VOLLEYBALL TEA.MA 9130 CALL 1•6100 71 .. CALL 1·6100 B100 
9100 
NA 
NA NA 

TANCIE.T OcLr 
121 .. 

9130 CO-REC Baccc11 
KAYA.KIND 
1·6100 
NA 
1210 . 
B100 
9100 

TEAM A WIP'P'LEIIALL ,-EAM A B145 
TEAM B 

TEAMS NA TANCIET GDLP' NA 0DOCIEBALL
TEAM A MDN ¦ TE" 12100 TEAMS Ni,. b&Nl!:."-1'UBE. WATER ?0\..0 TE.AMA 8130 Co"'REC SOCCI!:" TEAM A 7130 l"EAM 
B NA 

TEAMS 10, .o LNO Olt ¦ TA.CLIC Ccut11ac Te:::AM A 10130 LNC DB¦TACLE COUA¦E TEAM A 10130 
KAVAICIM. 
TEA.MA 9100 

TEAM B 9140 TEAM B 9100 TEAM B 11100 TA.9LE TENNI ¦ NA TAIILIE TENNI ¦ CALL 1 •&100 
DILLON / LEWIS STANFORD/ BREEN-PHILLIPS/ KEENAN 
\ICLL.CY¦ ALL TEAM A 7130 MEN' ¦ RACQUE:TIIALL CALL I •6100 
VoLLEYl!I.ALL TEAM A 7130 MEN1¦ RACQUETBALL CALL I •6100 TEAM B NA WDMEN'¦ RACQUETBALL CALL 1-61 ca 
TEAM B e,oo WDMEN1 ¦ RACQUETBALL NA MEN 1¦ BA¦KETBALL TEAM A 9145 MEN*¦ e..oOMBALt.. 1,00 
MEN1• B.A ¦ KETIIALL TEAM A 911 5 MICN 1¦ a..aOMIIALL B130 TEAM 8 9130 WOMEN 1¦ B"ODMIIALL 8130 
TEAM B NA WOMEN'• B"OCMIIALL NA TE,t1,M A 9130 KICKBALL. aaoo 
WDMCN' ¦ BA¦ KCTll"LI.. TEAM A NA KtCK;BALL 7140 T~AoM S NA 
TCA.M B NA TEAM A 711 5 w,,-n.ire.ALL T,:AM A 10100 
Nt:"P' F'00Tl!liALL TEAM A 9130 WIP'P'"Ll::¦ ALL Tl!AM A NA TEAM B 11100 T,:.AM B B145 
TEAM B l"A TEAM B NA TAlltOll!T 00Ltr' TEA-.. A NA MON8TEJI Dooc:ui:11,1,.u. 12100 
TAltCU:T CiOLP' TCAM A NA MONaTcll DODDCIIALL 12100 TEAM 1:1 NA )NNr;"TUBE WATl:1111 P'DLC T.-;AM A NA 
TEAMS NA INNt:11t-ru1n: WATE,. Flot.a TEAM A NA TEAM A 11 ,ao T1t;;AM B NA 
l"EAM A e100 TEA.MS NA TCAM B arao I.NO Oa ¦ TACLC COUPlat: Tt:AM A 9,30 
Tm'.AM B NA LNO D• ¦ TACL.1£ CQUfl ¦ K'. TE4M A 1011 !I 
KAYAKING 
TCAM A NA TltAM a NA KAYAICINEI Tl:AM A NA Tl!AM B NA 
Tl!AM B NA CALL 1•6100 

TEAM B NA CALL 1•6100 
ZAHM / CAVANAUGH / REGINA 
O'NEILL/ MCGLINN 
VOLLCYBiit>L.L. TC:AM A 71::10 
Mt:N'¦ RACQUCT¦ ALL. CALL 1•61 00 VOLLl:YIIALL ilCAM A 7130 Mc,-,•• AA.CQUCT•4U. CALL 1•61 00 TE.AM B NA Wopi,U;M'a RACQUETBALi.. CALL I •1511 00 TIEAM B 8100 WOM&N1a RAa~Ul!TBALL. NA MK;N'¦ BA ¦ KCTIIALL T~MA N4 
IMttM'• BJIICIOMIIALL B1CO TICAM A 1h00 MC:N1 • B11t:10M ¦ ALL 9100 T&,&.M B N4 Wo.-4~t--4 ¦ e ..ooM•-.'--1.. 1 2,,30 T&..,_M B 'ihOO WOMS.N1a liUIOOM•At,.\. Z10Q TIC ... M A 
911 !Ii K1ai<:•ALL.. IB1'4Cl WOMCttrf1W BA ¦ KCT¦ ALI. TIEAM A NA KIDK ¦ AL.I.. 8100 Tc:,..M B 9100 
T&'AM B NA Tc... M A 
9145 Tr:AM A B115 NE..ft F"OOT8ALL TEAM A 9130 a11!1 Tll'AM 9 
NA TEAM 8 NA Tl'.'A.M B 7100 10130 
TEAM A 9IOO MoN ¦ Tr.:" Co0a1:l!IAl..L 12100 TA-.OE.T 13DLP-TE:AM A B130 MDN ¦ TEIII DDDGCIIALL 12100 
TEAM B BUS INNEIIIITUISE WATCIII POLO 9130 

1"1:AM S 8149 INNCl'ITUDE WATEft POLO Tl:AM A 9100 TEAM A 10,00 
9100 cc•Rc:a SOOC:ltll TEAM A 11100 TEAM B IOIOO 
Tt:AM 8 a,ao LN0 0DSTA.C\.'E. cau..ae: 10100 TEAM B 7100 LNO 0e•TACLE COUll ¦ E TEAM A 9119 KAYA.KINDi Tt:AM A TEAM B KAVA.KIN a 10120 9145
12100 9100 TEAM A TEAM B TE.AM 8 NA TA ¦ LC '"fltNNI ¦ CALI. 1 ·6 100 Tl:AM ¦ NA TAaL.E TCNNI ¦ CAI.I. 1·6ICO 
. WWW 
page 18 
MLB 
Griffey skeptical about staying in Seattle 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE Ken Griffey Jr. thinks he's a hated man in Seattle. 
As a result. he doesn't think it would be in his best inter­ests to play his final season there. 
"The front office, the fans and the media, everybody's ripped me," he was quoted as saying in Thursday's editions of the Seattle Post­Intelligencer. "Think I can come back''" 
Griffey wants to be traded from the Mariners to Cincinnati and won't sign a contract extension in Seattle. He is eligible for free agency after the season. 
Griffey said general manag­e-r Pat Gillick. team president Chuck Armstrong and vice president Lee Pelekoudas have requested meetings with him. 
"Everybody wants to come see me and see what's in my head." he told the paper Wednesday after a practice round Wednesdav at the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro­Am. 
Griffey refused to discuss the possibility of his being traded to Cincinnati. where his father is a coach. 
Although Gillick and new chief executive officer Howard Lincoln have spent the winter rebuilding the Mariners' ros­ter, Griffey was critical of Gillick for releasing third baseman Russ Davis and pitcher Brett Hinchliffe rather than trading them. 
For much of his Mariners career, Griffey has stated the only thing that mattered Lo him was getting a World Series championship ring. His father. Ken Griffey Sr.. has threP of them. 
After the season, Griffey told team officials that he wanted to be traded to a tf>am closer to his home in Florida. The Reds hold spring training in Florida, while the Mariners train iu Arizona. 
Spring training for the Mariners gets under way in Peoria, Ariz., Feb. 17. 
"Everybody's mad at me because I want to be near my family," he said. "I want to give my son something my father never gave me." 
Griffey, 30, is scheduled to earn $s:2s million this season, which would be his 12th in Seattle. In his 11 seasons with the Mariners, he has 398 home runs, including 48 last season after consecutive sea­sons with 56 each. 
Since Gillick replaced the retired Woody Woodward after last season, the Mariners have added starting pitcher Aaron Sele, relievers Kazuhiro Sasaki and Arthur Rhodes and first baseman John Olerud as free agents. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Manning jailed for public drunkeness 
Associated Press 
OXFORD, Miss. 
Mississippi freshman quarter­back Eli Manning was jailed briefly after his arrest last week­end for public drunkenness. 
Manning. 19, is the son of for­mer Ole Miss and New Orleans Saints star Archie Manning and the brother of Peyton Manning. 
quarterback  for  the  NFL's  
Indianapolis Colts.  
Also  charged  were  Justin  

Wade, a redshirt freshman line­backer from Jackson, according to justice court records. 
The charges were filed after campus police were called to a fraternity party late Saturday night. Records show Manning also was charged with disorderly conduct. while Wade, 19. fared an additional charge of posses­sion of liquor by a minor. 
Campus police declined to dis­cuss the charges, and a spokesman for the Oxford Police Department said his agency was not involved. 
Manning, contacted Thursday by telephone in Oxford. said he had no comment and Wade could not be reached. 
"Apparently two of our play­ers, Eli Manning and Justin Wade. have used poor judgment at a party over the weekend," Ole Miss football coach David Cutcliffe said in a statement. 
"Although I do not condone their behavior in any way, I know these young men regret their actions and we will take steps to ensure they have learned from their mistakes," Cutclille said. 

The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 4, 2000 
NBA 

Gatling, Abdul-Wahad please Nuggets 
Associated Press 

DENVEH 
Chris Gatling's cross-country flight ended with a limousine ride and a Shaq-sized headache that required sever­al Advil. 
Tariq Abdul-Wahad, traded with Gatling from Orlando to Denver on Tuesdav, couldn't claim to be much ~10re ener­getic, having stepped off an airplane within six hours of Wednesday night's game between the Nuggets and Milwaukee Bucks. 
The basketball bug got the best of both players as they combined for 16 points for their new team and left a refreshing impression on Denver !'ans and media. 
'Think about the people that clean your towels, that clean your jocks," Abdul-Wahad said Thursday of his decision to play against the Bucks. "Think about the people that serve popcorn, serve the Coke." 
"Think about the people that WAnt to work all day and are trying to get a little entertain­ment. Thi.nk about the kid that gets to see his first NBA game. Come on. What are you going do? Are you going say, "I'vfl got jet lag in my legs.' That's disrespectful to them." 
Though their playing time was limited, Gatling and Abdul-Wahad provided defen­sive depth and an intensity sometimes lacking in Ron Mercer, the laid-back, high­scoring swingman Denver shipped to Orlando along with Chauncey Billups and Johnny Taylor. 
After the game. a J35-1 l 2 Denver victory, Nuggets coach Dan lssel thanked Gatling and Abdul-Wahad for their willing­ness to play, and the room tilled with applause. 
"I haven't seen too many people applaud for each other in the locker room before," Issel said...I think the feeling was as good as we've had for a while. That was a complete victory last night. and these two kids had a lot to do with 
it... Gatling, who gives Denver an 
inside scoring threat, is no stranger to impressing new friends. Denver is his seventh team in nine seasons, and he estimates he has had nearly 100 teammates. 
"That's a lot of teammates," he said. "Every city I go to, I've got some friends, so when I go to Golden State [Friday night]. I know somebody. When I go to Minnesota, I know some­body. Everywhere I go, I know someone. That's good. That just shows maturity and veter­an-ship." 
Despite being at ease with his NBA travels, Gatling would like to find a permanent home during the offseason and does not rule out returning to the Nuggets, who are in the midst of a revival after threatening the league record for futility just two seasons ago. 
"Any situation is what you make of the situation." Gatling said. "If you make like it's going to be in purgatory, then that's what it's going to be. If you make the situation great and good and terrific, that's what it's going to be." 

tNtii Manin Luther King Speech Writing Coolest deadline 
C.lNTll' FOR 
SOCIAL extended to Februarv 8. First Prize is anendence at 
CONCERNS 
the Civil Highs and Social Change Seminar 


CIVIL RIGHTS & SOCIAL CHANGE 
SEMINAR 
Spring Break, March 12-18, 2000. 
THE SEMINAR 
• 
An Experiential Learning Seminar created to provide hands-on exposure to the living history of the Civil Rights Movement in America: 

• 
Travel to Atlanta ,Binningham, Montgorpery & Selma, the sites of historic Civil Rights actions in the 1950's and 1960's. 

• 
Visit students and staff at educational institutions which cultivated the minds and spirits of the Student Leaders of the '60's. 


• Tours of the King Center in Atlanta, the National Civil Rights Institute in Birmingham, the Southern Poverty Law Center in Montgomery. 
• The Seminar connects the past with the future by stimulating ideas and conversation about today's society 30+ years after the Civil Rights Movement. 

APPLICATIONS 
Available at the CSC 
EXTENDED DATE: 
Tuesdav. Feb. 8, 2000 
Further Information: 
Application must include: 
Deposit: $40 of $125 fee due with 
application: check or money order 
ONLY; payable to the Center for 
Social Concerns (if accepted non­
refundable). 

Jay Caponigro at the CSC@ 631-5293 

Tomorrow! 

Womenis ".B,asketball#5 ,:n t;h~:,?N~tipnl vs .. Bos.ton".coliege 
,,. @·. kll'.\QN
~:~r-rim,·t~., ... : rt.]I.. ~-~,--. ___;.: _. ~#r::/ 
:c:-'>.-%,.,:~;.:;_ .-:·•<" ,, \ 
Joyce Center 

The 1st 250 fans receive free t-shirts ALL STUDENTS ADMITTED FREEi!! 
:,1rt;s;;:~ & 1fi~ld . 
:r()~~y(:~...~.~;~Pr~.~v
Meyc{'.;'l;nyijat:.iqftpl:,;;-;30:f.im/ 10am ., .. ~OftlJS $p.orts Cerater 
,~, Mlnls4+•1t,tfffl'h1i11g 

..c).".·w•··;···· ..
..•·C'.; ......·.••.•.~.•··.•.·.•.·.,.:..•.·!Cv:.1·••·•.·.·.·.•••p·,::-'·.•·.•·•·.·m•ii#t .. '" . ,}tr~:::.-. · · · r./f.f 
onaventure 
:::::\?::;;;~:~~{::' 
uatic Center 
...... 

Friday, February 4, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS HOCKEY 
ND takes on CCHA rival OSU 

By MATT OLIVA 
Sporrs Writer 
The Notre name hockey team faces Ohio State (4-12-2 in the CCHAl this weekend with an opportunity to move up in CCHA standings. 
After climbing in recent weeks with impressive wins over Western Mir.higan and Alaska-Fairbanks, the Irish find themselves in sole possession of fif'th place, four points out of third place. 
The Irish are trying to secure a crucial top-three spot in the play­offs, which would allow them to avoid a 4-5 match-up for the last semi-finalist place. Ohio State comes into the series winners of srven of' tlrn last 10 match-ups against Notre Dame. 
The Huckeyes are also lighting for th1\ final playoff spot, trailing Bowling Green by four points. Every g-amc for the remainder of the season is crucial to the two teams. 
Despitf' Notre Dame's 0-4 start in the CCHA, they have been on a roll. Hecently they have gone 8-3-5 to climb into their currnnt fifth position. 
Notre~ Dame has also seen sever­a I key players step to the front during the stretr,h run. David Inman has swred a team-leading 11 goals and Dan Carlson has added 10 goats of his own. Of Carlson·s 10 goals, three have been recorded as game-winners. Carlson also shares the team lead in points with senior Joe Dusbabek. The pair have 20 points a·piP.ce. which plar.es them in a tie for 19th in the CCHA. 
Offense has not been the Irish 
MIKE HARRIS/The Observer 
Left wing Dan Carlson and the Irish travel to Ohio this weekend to take on the Buckeyes. The Irish are in fifth place in the CCHA. 
strength, however. The defense and play of goaltender Tony Zasowski has been reliable for the team all season. Purthermore. the Irish arc the CCHA's least penal­ized team, making it easier for the defense to shut down their oppo­nents. The defense has been so impressive in recent weeks that they were able to stop Western Michigan's high-powered power­play team. Not only did they stop the Broncos, but limited them to only one shot on goal in the last period. 
The defense has added some scoring from Tyson Fraser and Evan Nielsen in addition to stop­ping their opponents. The two have nine points, helping the Irish offensive cause. 

One of the biggest contributors for the Irish has been freshman Tony Zasowski. The goaltender ranks 6th overall in the CCHA with a 2.35 GAA. 
Notre Dame will look to keep a strong combination of offense and defense in their remaining eight CCHA games to move in on Michigan State and Lake Superior State. The Spartans have been struggling lately and will be Notre Dame's opponent in the first week­end of March. 
The Irish will play in Ohio State's new Schottenstein Center for the first time ever tonight. 
page 19 

NBA 
Rodman signs with Mavericks 
Associated Press 
DALlAS 

The Dallas Mavericks wrapped up their courtship of Dennis Rodman on Thurs-day. signing the controversial power forward to a contract. 
Rodman passed a physical earlier in the day, and the Mavericks issued a press release before Thursday night's game against Charlotte that said only, "Seven-time NBA champion Dennis Rodman has signed today with the Dallas Mavericks." 
Team officials said Rodman planned to take a week oiT to get in shape -or maybe fly to Hawaii for the Pro Bowl. 
Rodman will work with a personal 
Rodman trainer to get in playing shape. He's been out of the NBA since playing just 23 games last February and March for the Los Angeles Lakers. 
While teammates go on the road to play the Los Angeles Clippers and Vancouver Grizzlies, Rodman could be headed even further west to Honolulu to hang out with his NFL chums. 
Rodman's initial talks with the Mavericks broke off last week so he could go to Atlanta for some Super Bowl par­ties. He said from there that he wanted to delay his NBA return until after the Pro Bowl and NBA all-star game Feb. 13. 
He returned to Dallas to continue talking with incoming Mavs owner Mark Cuban. 
Rodman even moved into his prospective boss' 4,000­square-foot guest house. They talked more Wednesday as Rodman settled into his new digs. 
Rodman will pay Cuban $3,000 in rent, but not because the billionaire co-founder of broadcast.com needs the cash. 
League rules force him to charge the going rate, which is why reserve Greg Buckner is paying $15 a day to drive one ofCuban's cars. 
For his new tenant, Cuban has promised no curfews or bed checks. 
-¼ Sophomores & all May 2002 Grad! ·'I,$CHOLAR$HIP$ AVAILABLE NOW! 

If you are in one of the following majors, you may be able to earn over $17,000 a year in AFROTC scholarship benefits -some starting this Semester! Chemistry, Comp Info Systems, Comp Science, Mathematics, Physics, Foreign Area Studies, or Languages Engineering majors: Aeronautical, Aerospace, Chemical, Civil, Computer, Electrical, Environmental, Industrial, Mechnical, or Nuclear 
There is a time constraint, so don't waste a moment! Contact Captain Klubeck at 631-4676, or Klubeck.1@nd.edu 
----... 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 4, 2000 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

Swimmers plan to make splash against Bonaventure 


By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Saine Mary's Editor 
With a four-year history behind the Irish-St. Bonaventurn men's swimming rivalry. it's safe to say that thn men's swimming and diving team feels fairly confident that they'vn got the home court advantage. 
After all. thP. home team has won the matchup each of the four years. 
With their season dual meet record at 4-4 aftr.r a. win over Oakland Universitv l.ast wef)kend, the Irish will !'ace an ~1ager St. Bonaventure team wh() is ready to break the home vir.tory streak. Stepping up and defeating Oakland behind the rer.ord-setting per­for mancc of senior diver llorb Huf'sman, tho Irish am set up to clinch two key meets at the conclusion of the season. But it. won't be easy. 
"St. Bonaventure is always a com­petitive team,'' said head coach Tim Welsh. "This team has excellent rac­ers, and they like the challenge of rac­ing." 
As in previous matchups, when it comes to the numbers, there is no clear winner. With an lrish distance squad led by Jonathan Pierr.e and Eliot Drury. Notre Dame could edge Bonaventure in the distance, but llrny're likely to respond in the sprint events, Welsh said. 
"The races at this meet will bP to our ultimate advantage," Wrlsh said. "Whatever happens at this meet is good news. Because we're balanced, as far as points, 1weryone counts the same." 
Heading into Big East champi­onships in two weeks, this meet will serve as a critical checkpoint l'or the team, no matter what the outcome. 
"We have to look carefully at these results, and see where we are, and what we have to tune up and polish," Welsh said. 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Sachire advances to Rolex Invitational second round 
By RACHEL BIBER Sports Writer 
Senior All-American Rvan Sachire didn't need the luck of the Irish. 
Solid play and intensity landed him in the second round of the Rolex National Inter-col­l e g i ate Indoor Champ­ionships in D a I I as with an upset over Arkansas' sixth-seeded Oskar Johans­son. 
The 14th-ranked Sachire, making his fourth appearance at the Rolex National lnter­collegiates, rallied for a 6-7 {7-2), 6-3, 7-6 (7-4) win over eighth-ranked Johans-son to set up a second round battle with LSU's 13th-ranked Tom Hand on Friday. 
Hand advanced with a 5-7, 6-4. 6-4 win over SMU's Dustin Mauck in the first round of the three-day event. 
"It was a tough match." Sachire said. "Both of us serve really well. It was one of those matches that was pretty intense and basically jeopar-dized the whole match with one break of serve. We. both played really well and kept our cool through the match." 

Sachire, the lone Irish rep­resentative in the event, did not 11inch throughout the tight three-set match. 
l n the nearly three-hour marathon match, he never surrendered a service game and faced just two break points. 
Irish coach Bob Bayliss was impressed by Sachire's high level of play, and sees Sachire's four years of dedica­tion and hard work paying off. 
"I thought [Sachire) played extremely well. He has worked for four years to become more aggressive," Bayliss said. "He was able to assert himself and come to the net and that was the differ­ence in the match." 
For the first time in his four appearances of the collegiate grand slam event. Sachire succeeded in conquering his first round opponent. 
His first two appearances were spoiled by first round defeats at the hands of UCLA's Kevin Kim in 1997 and Vince Allegre in 1998. 
1999 proved to be more suc­cessful for Sachire, who won the consolation singles draw after dropping his first round match. 
Pleace recycle The Observer. 


Sachirn looks to improve on his two previous showings at the grand slam events of the Intercollegiate Tennis Association of this year. 
The Irish captain reached the semifinals of the T. Rowe Price National Clay Court Championships in September and lost in the second round of the lTA All-American Championships in October. 
His first round upset, which improved his record to 15-5, leaves no doubt that Sachire is playing at a level that can take him to the top in the third leg of the grand slam events. 
The Rolex National 
lntercollegiates feature an exclusive field of 32 singles players, who qualify by way of !TA Regional Championships. The championships are held nationwide during the fall. The Holex National Small College champions the win­ners of the first 1999-2000 !TA Grand Slam events and at-large and wild card selec­tions made bv the !TA 
National Committee. 
With each appearance at the prestigious annual tourna­ment, Sachire has shown his steady improvement and for­midable game. 
Heading into the round of 16 is unknown territory for him at this event, but the will and strength required to advancfl in the tournament is some­thing this Irishman is known to possess. 
However. the second round matchup against LSU's Hand won't be easy. 
Hand, who played in last year's Wimbledon, possesses a dominant style of play that is going to force Sachire to take charge of the match. 
"Tom Hand is an aggressive player," coach Bayliss said. "He is going to come at Ryan. I think he'll need to dictate play to win." 

** 
*

* * 
* 
. 
.,

* ---....~ ---* 
**Dinner! 
································································* 
~ February 4th, 2000 · 5-7pill at ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB!! 
·····································································­
* 
Come outfor Papa John's Pizza & Breadsticks ..... . and don't forget your ID!! * 
New delivery Schedule!! Pizza will arrive 
* 

Friday, rebruary 4, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

to their ITA ranking of 15. It is the Since the Rolex Indoors do notBy KEVIN BERCHOU first time since 1996 that the Notre count in the of'fir.ial lPague stand­
Sp\lrtS Wricer 
Dame women will be represented ings, the Irish women will be pre­with a doubles pairing and, head sented with a great chance to gainIt could very well be "doubles coach Jay Louderback thinks both some valuable experience without trouble" for opponents of the Notre of his teams have a shot to make the pressure that comes with play­Dame women's tennis team this some.noise. ing in their regular season Big East weekend. 
"I think both of our pairings are matches. 

For the first .time ever, the Irish strong," Louderback said. "Both Louderback thinks this week­will send two doubles pairings to have played well all year and now end's tournament will prove espe­
the prestigious Rolex National 
they are being rewarded for their cially vital for the tandem of GuyIntercollegiate Indoor Champion­efforts." and Cunha, the team's number two ships in Dallas. Notre Dame joins Though both pairings are expect­pairing.
Florida and Stanford as the only ed to do well, they will rely on con­"It's going to be great for them schools to send morn than one dou­trasting styles to achieve success. [Guy-Cunha)." Louderback said. 
bles pair. 
The Dasso-Varnum tandem plays a "They'll get the chance to playThe duo of junior All-American defensive game, relying on a strong against a lot of No. 1 doubles Michelle Dasso and standout return serve game and powerful teams. Normally they play our sophomore Becky Varnum quali­groundstrokes. The Guy-Kunha opponents' number two (pairings],fied by virtue of their doubles victo­play in the opposite fashion, count­so this will be a nice opportunity for ry in the Intercollegiate Tennis ing heavily on an offensive style. them to improve."
Association Midwest Region tennis "Guy and Cunha are both great With both teams playing well, finals. while the coupling of junior serve and volley players." opponents this weekend could veryKimberly Guy and freshman Katie Louderback noted. "They'll try to well be in "doubles trouble," as the Cunha received a bid thanks in part get after their opponents." Irish will look to bring home a title. 

Irish land three top recruits 
Streiffer," said Waldrum,

Special to The Observer 
the 1999 Big East coach 
of the year. 

High school seniors Scheller, a native of Amanda Guertin, Handi Kutztown, Pa., has been Scheller and Melissa named to the Parade Tan-credi have signed Magazine and National nation-Soccer Coaches al let­Association of America ters of, high school All-America intent lists. The midfielder at t () Kutztown High School attend has been in pools for the Notre under-16 and 18 nation­Dame, al teams. wom­"Randi has great tacti­e n ' s cal awareness and 
-. 

soccer vision," said Waldrum. h e a d "She will add tremen­coach Randv Wal-drum dous play-making quali­an-nounced Thursday. ties that will complement 
Guertin and Scheller Anne Makinen in our have been part of the midfield." United States under-18 Tancredi, a native of national team pool, Ancaster, Ontario, brings while Tancredi has been an overall athleticism to a member of the Notre Dame. In addition Canadian under-18 to her experience with national team. the Canadian under-18 
Guertin, a native of national team, Grapevine, Texas, played Tancredi's club team with the U.S. under-16 won the under-19 national team in 1997 Canadian national cham­and has been in pools for pionship. the under-17 and 18 The forward at national team pools. Cathedral High School 
The forward was was named both the named the female stu­track and field and vol­dent-athlete of the year leyball MVP as she was at Grapevine High School the school's student ath­in 1998. She will joins lete of the year in 1998. fellow Texans Monica "Melissa is a very gift­Gonzalez and Elizabeth ed athlete whose athletic Wagner on the Irish dominance allows her to women's soccer team. score numerous goals for 
"Amanda has tremen­her club and national dous technical ability teams," said Waldrum. who should impact our "With her athletic and team immediately with soccer abilities, she the loss of forwards should have an impact Jenny Heft and Jenny on our program." 
f,u.ause 1our dorm a\\G1f> seems to be the furthest from the romputer \ab. 
'II 
c.omputer lab 

lntroduc.in9 the t:A'b'blOP£1A -c..omputer £Jtende.r­hand-held 'Pl-~ith Waterloo Maple 'bofu.aare 
Water\oo Maple for .,,,.
,,... 

Windo'II& C.E. e '&a1 9oodb1e to tho~ midnight rune, to the t0mput&r lab. 6-uaue,& no111 1ou have al\ the po111er and portabilit-f 1ou'n \oo~ing for right in 1our hand. 
Not on\1 c.an 1ou ~r&ona\iu 1our CA'i>"blO'Pf',l~ 'llith Waterloo Maple &0fhtare, 1ou tan a\&o purtha,e (via our f.duLation 'i>tore Online) other po.,.erful math too\& &uth a& l'e1 C.Urri,u\um Vru.& C..e.ometer'e. 'i>~etthpad and Mtz.l C..raphing l..alt.u\ator. 11,e l.ar.io8 unexputed extra alr.o de.liver& Mic.ror.oft" Window&" C.£ 'Poc.~e.t Word, 1'oc,tet £uo\ and 
Pot~et Po\llerPoint a\read1 \oadid. in tbe lA'l>'l>IOl'f-1~. 
CASIO® 
the unexpected extra
~ matct 1hat one ~ mp to i\,e c.omputer \ab. Log on to: 
~ 
Microsoft• 
Windows"Cf: !:::very time you see this • symbol expect the Casio unexpected extra. 
http://e,dw;ationstore.Gat,io.wm 
Microsoft. Windows and the Windows CE logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the
and order '(OUr CA'i>'i>loPfA~ Nl.omputer €:lltender"' and~& n~. United States and/or other countries. Casio and Cassiopeia are registered trademarks of Casio Computer Co., Ltd. 
r 
-----___....---... 
I 
I 
i 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 4, 2000 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Pittsburgh set on revenge in reillatch with Notre Danie 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
i\s.isrrnt Spons Editor 
The last time the ldsh men ·s basketball team playPd the Pittsburgh Panthers, Troy Murphy and co. delivered ,rn 81-66 win in the Joyce Center. 
Sunday's challenge will be different. as the Panthers (9­
9. 1-fi Big Eo.stl possess the home court advantage and a powerful sourcP of' motivation -ren,ngc. 
"We played them at home, and beat them at home," freshman guard f\latt Carroll said. "So I'm sure they're all fired up for us. I'm sure they're going to be ready to play. but I'm sure we're going to be ready to play." 
Pittsburgh has only played two games since losing at Notre Dume (14-8, ~-3), leav­ing the loss to the Irish fresh in the minds of the Panthers. 
After fulling to Nolre Dame, Pittsburgh did an about-fare and defeated Villanova 79-70. It then headed down to Miami, ending just four points behind against a squad that humbled Notre Dame 63-49 in the Joyce Center. 
Ricardo Greer, a 6-foot-5 forward. is capable of bounc­ing with the big boys down low. 
He is the only player in the Big East besides Notre Dame star Murphy to rank among the top five in the Big East in both rebounding and scoring. Greer led the Pittsburgh offensive on Notre Dame Jan. 22 with 20 points and eight rebounds. 
But the question may not be whether Greer can hold his 
own with Murphy. 
A better query might be whose supporting cast will shine brighter on Sunday. 
For the Panthers, forward Chris Seabrooks and guard Jarrett Lockhart both average in double digits. 
Lockhart came through with 20 points for the Panthers in their first meeting with the Irish. 
Freshman forward Donatas Zavackas. averaging 10.8 points per game in the confer­ence, may be an unexpected force for the Irish to contend with. 
He sat out the first contest with Notre Dame for undis­closed disciplinary reasons. 
Got Sports? 
Call 1-4543 
Since returning to play, he led Pittsburgh in points against Villanova. and in rebounds against Miami. 
Notre Dame is led by 6-l'oot­·10 All-American candidate Murphy. who averages 24 points an.cl l l rebounds per game. 
Few teams have been able to find an answer for him this sertson. 
In addition to Murphy, lhe Irish have a solid crew or starters and rnserves who can produce. 
"I think we're playing really well right now," \1urphy said. "We have a balanced attack. Last night we had a bunch of guys who scored in double digits. It's tough lo stop a team likP that when thev have different guys who can go out there and score 25 points. Teams really have to be ready for them." 
Freshman guard Matt Carroll und sophomore for­ward David Graves were high scorers in the vvin over West Virginia. with 17 points apiece. 
Sophomore forward Harold Swanagan joined Graves and Murphy in high rebounding honors with nine boards each. 
Senior point guard Jimmy Dillon ups the team·s scoring with his six assists per game. Junior Martin Ingelsby, who helped heat up the Irish with two 3-pointers and three assists Wednesday. backs him up. 
The Irish hit the road after four consecutive home games. 
"It's really important for us to win on the road," Murphy said. "The way you move up in the standings is you beat people at their home arenas. The [NCAA] selection commit­tee really looks for how you play in the month of February and how you play on the road." 
Beneath the tutelage of dynamic first-year coach Matt Doherty, they are on a high after defeating then-No. 23 St. John's and middle-of-the­road West Virginia. 
The two wins left the Irish just one game out of second place in the Big East and in the midst of the hunt for an invitation to March Madness. 
"These games could make or break our season," Carroll said. "If we can win these games on the road, we should be in good shape." 


CEN-lER FOR 
SOCIAL 
-· 
CONCERNS 
Junior Business Majors 
Internships available to work in 
ACCION Offices 
Accion is a micro-lending organization assisting people with no credit history to obtain loans to improve build their businesses. 
• 
10-12 week program during the summer, 

• 
$2,500.00 tuition scholarship for 12 weeks 

• 
with housing and food stipend 

• 
3 academic credits -(elective) Theo 360 (Business Approach to Social Change) 


Available m 6 cities: Albuquerque, Chicago, El Paso, New York City, San Antonio, San Diego 
•• Applications available at the Center for Social Concerns & COBA Undergraduate office :t: due February 18th 
Interviews in March at the Center for Social Concerns with a representative from ACCION 
Information Session · February gt h Room 121, COBA 5:00 PM 



Friday, February 4, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 23 

HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 
DAY: Clint Black, Alice Cooper, 
Chogvam Trungpa, John Schuck, 
Pamela Franklin, Dan Quavle, David 
llrenner, Lisa Eichhorn · 
Happy Birthday: Focus will be required if you want to accomplish the most this vear. You must not let other people or personal problems interfere with your goals. Think through \'our motives clearly and make the changes that will bring vou the highest rewards. It's time for you to thmk of vourself first instead of catering to ·the demands of others. Your numbers: 2, 16, 24, 33, 37, 48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You can make ma1or gains through female contacts. Business travel will bring good results. You will commu­nicate with ease. Help children with anv problems the\' might encounter. 
0000 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Estrangement from your lo ,er is likelv. Don't get imolved in secret affairs that mav ruin your reputation. Take a close look at your personal papers. 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your abilitl' to communicate charminglv will aid you in capturing the partner of ,·our choice. You will be able to formulate and sign contracts and agreements successful!\'. 00000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Romantic relationships can de\'elop through work-related functions or business trips. Be cautious, as a poor reputation may result from this corn,ection 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Social acti,·it,es and tra1·el are a must. You will shme in the en•s oi otht>rs ii 1·ou 
Birthday Baby: Life ma,· not run smoothly for you, but you will always land on vour feet. You are giving, and for this reason others will look out for vou and your interests. You have a built-in sense that will help you decipher what vou should and shouldn't be doing. 
i\!eed advice? Check out Eugenia"s Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugcnialasl.com, astromate.com.) 
• 20\l t 01'\,"r.;..1i Pn.-. Sv1,\.fo:.,h' 
• 
beam.1@nd.edu 
EUGENIA LAST 
use your Leo charm and outgoing 
nature. Gambling for entertainment 
purposes will be enjoyable. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Real estate dealings will pay off. You can make alterations to your residence that will increase its value. Take time to look into a matter that may be troubling an older relative. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Catch up on correspondence. Talk to rela­tives about personal problems that are bothering you. Get involved in groups of a humanitanan nature 
00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Pro­fessional advancement can be yours. Your 111nate ability to get the 10b done on time will enable you to set a good example and receive recogni­tion 00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can ask for favors and get involved in groups with a humani­tarian cause. The company you keep will enhance your reputation. 0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Put some time, effort and cash into your living quarters. Investments can be lucrative if vou are selective in \"OUr choices. Don't let family mem­bers upset vou 000 · 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20:Feb. 18): You will be emotionally depressed today if you allow past unpleasant memories to pra,· on your mind. You must not limit yourself by refusing to get involved in new thmgs. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can make extra cash if you put your creative talents to good use. Look into small business ventures and consider taking on a partner. 000 ­

FOURTH AND INCHES 

Fox TROT 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Red Cloud, for 1 Brown on the one 
arms and the 30 No longer mint, back of the in a way neck 33 Mulligatawny 
11 Kind of capital ingredient 15 Weasel 35 Simpleton 16 X-Games 36 Needle telecaster 38 Exercise 17 like many 41 Raise the roof modern 43 Norse goddess computers of love 18 Side of a fight 45 Utter rapture that almost 
49 Class 

always loses 
51 1917 

19 Winnie 
newsmaker 

(famous plane) 
52 Anemometer 

20 "1-2-3" singer 
reading: Abbr. 

Barry 
54 Baedeker of the 

21 Eight-line verse 
Baedeker travel 23 La Guardia guides data: Abbr. 
55 Brisk 25 Flattery 58 You stand to 27 Conclusions lose it 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
12  13  14  





WHAT IF YOU'D HA'/£ 1'0 SEEN ALLOWED <:,om111 To OVIT WITH• IT RIGHT? OUT LOSIN(;, 
singer 

63 "If I Ruled the 53 _-slipper World" rapper 
56 Dictionary 64 Debussy notation subject 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
TOM KEELEY 
JEFF BEAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 
BILLAMEND 
:fASoN, 1T'S ToTALL Y OF ALL 1-loNEST-
THE 1 WANl TO 
1)1SHONEST... BE A 


60 Ban's opposite 61 "See who 62 Headstone 
words 65 Harper's Weekly 
caricaturist 66 Starter's call 67 _ perpetua 
(Idaho's motto) 68 Lile of Riley 
DOWN 1 French women 2 Like seals 3 Excluded 4 Prestigious sch. 5 Full of turpitude 6 Rival of Paris 7 Like some 
routes through mountains 8 Smidgen 9 Fighting 10 Imminent 11 Upgrade the machinery 12 King Mark's bride 13 Magazine feature 14 Difficult problems 22 Ross Sea sight 24 "Oh, what the hell" 26 Kind of coat 29 Getting under 
one's skin? 31 Rights org. since,1966 
32 Do 
39 Soup vegetable 40 "Awesome!" 42 1964 Murray 
Schisgal play 44 Set up 45 Flood-prone 
areas 46 Beat the draft? 47 Bamboozles 48 It may have a 
hook 
--~------~-


Repeatpertormance 
Harold Swanagan and the men's basketball team travels to Pittsburgh Sunday looking for its second win over the Panthers this season.
PORTS 
page 22 

O
THE page 24 BSERVER 


WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
No. 5 Irish look to soar over No. 18 Eagles 
By KERRY SMITH AssistJIH Spun• Edi ,or 
The road to the Big East championship will get a little rockier for the women's bas­ketball team this weekend. 
Whf'n the lrish play host Saturday to the Boston College Eagles, the tirst ranked team to come to the Joyce Center this season. the meeting will be the first in a series of uphill Irish battles before tournament time in March. 
Blowing out their opponents by double digits in each of their conference tests this sea­son, the Irish have advanced through their Big East sched­ule with ease. showing why they are the team to beat. 
But all that could change as the Irish face a slew of tougher teams in the coming weeks. Top conference teams like Boston College, Rutgers and Connecticut are three of Notre Dame's final seven opponents. 
"We're taking it one game at a time," said junior forward Kelley Siemon. "But this game
...... 
does hold a little bit of leverage because it is our first game against a ranked opponent in a while and starts out a stretch of geod opponents to end the regular season." 
Ranked 18th in the nation, Boston College has won 14 out of its last 15 games and poses the biggest threat so far to Notre Dame's undefeated con­ference record. 
Come Saturday, the two squads that meet on the court at the Joyce Center will be much more evenly matched than Notre Dame would like. 
see IRISH/page 14 


TRACK
-
ND prepares for tough competition at Invitational 
ly draw a big boost from the "/ think it helps them to Michigan, Missouri, \;Yake and thrower Matt ThompsonBy KATHLEEN O'BRIEN home fans in matching up Forest, Alabama. Miami is also aiming to make it two
know that the 

Assist.mt Spom Ediror 
with the top-quality athletes. (Fla.), Tulane and Hice. The in a row. "The crowd is definitely competition is going to women will take on Two of the top athletes on The Irish are looking for a going to help out," sopho­be tough. It's kind of Michigan. Missouri, Tulane. the men's side will be missing little Meyo magic. more Luke Watson said. Wake Forest and Iowa. in action. 
like running at nationals:
The 10th annual Meyo Invi­Some of the world-class Several Irish athletes have Marshaun West, an NCAA tation a I athletes competing include you have to rise to the Meyo Invite titles to defend. finalist long jumper and the brings in 
Olympian Natasha Kaiser­level ofthe competition." "I think mainly what we're 1999 200-meter champion at some of Brown in the 400-meter run, trying to do is give people the Meyo Invite, will sit out the most top hurdler Tonya Lawson in some opportunities to the meet with an injury.
John Millar

talented the 60 meter hurdles and improve on their perfor­Junior distance runner track and NCAA 800-meter champion Irish sprint coach mance and maybe get some Ryan Shay will also be gone field ath­Brian Peterson of Missouri. NCAA times," Millar said. due to an injury.
• letes from "I think it helps them know­··we·re pretty much going to High jumper Jennifer
have to rise to the level of the
the nation. ing that the competition is run one event and let them Engelhardt and pole vaulter
competition."

o f t e n going to be so tough," Notre focus on one event." Natalie Hallett both won their
The frish face a fresh slate
i n c I u d in g Burn Dame sprint coach John Senior Phil Mishka is out to events a year ago.
of teams this weekend.

several Millar said. "It's kind of like capture a second straight
The men go up against
Olympians. The Irish general-running at nationals; you title in the 1,000-meter run see TRACK/page 14 
ar Ohio State Fencing
~­
' 
Friday, 7:05 p.m. 

SPORTS '~ rl) • at Northwestern
National Rolex Indoor Saturday
ChampionshipATA at Dallas 
vs. Boston College at Calvin College 
Thursday-Sunday
Saturday, noon Saturday, 12:45 p.m.
'O s9
GLANCE 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Tuesday, February 8, 2000 BSERVER page I I 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
SMC elections try the polis 
It is my opinion and the opinion or at least 51 percirnt or Saint Mary's College voters that Koelsh/llodarte is the winner of lht> recent p(p,r,tion. Although Henner/Nagle is qualified -as all four tickets were qualified -they wern not the n~sounding choicr, of the campus. !lad they b1wn, three separate elr.ctions would not have been required to elect next vcar·s President and Vice Presidrrnt or Saint Marv's. 
If they !the other ticketsJ arc declared winners. for whatever nonsense reason. I ,,..rn not foe! adequatt>ly represented in BOG. I will no longer have conlidrmcc in a school I have atlr:nded for nearly threo yflars. The week-long election was stressful for all or thP candidat<•s -that l know first-hand. But a winner has been selecwd. and that winner deserves rrcogn ition. 
The elections, though numerous, were handled in a fair and professional man­ner. Th<' decision for a second run-off after the unprecedented first run-off tie was made with clear and thoughtful consideration of the welfare and desires of Saint Mary's women. It was a situa­tion that all or the candidates seemed in agrnement with -that is. until a win­ner was chosen. 
IL is my understanding that llenner is the Elections Commissioner of BOG, a title that was relinquished to Bridget Heffernan for this particular election, as Henner was a candidate. As someone who held this position for more than a semester. and who would be aware of all the intricacies of the process, it seems as though this complaint could have bmm lodged at a much earlier time. II' thflrn had been such a serious error in judgmPnt and procedurn, it should have bnen brought to Heffernan 's attention prior to Sunday night -even Friday morning. Perhaps even bPfore the Henner/Nagle tir.ket posted additions to thP.ir fliers, encour­aging the student body to vote in Friday's ofection, to "Come Together Onr. Mor<' Time." Unfortunately, losing doe:,; not justify a procedural appeal. 
In addition. there is no reason whatso­ever to take Mondav's results into fur­ther consideration. ·111 that election no ticket held the dear majority. and this necessitated a run-off. If we were to add that result lo Wednesday's result, at least 20 percent of the original voters would be un-represented. Although 43 percent volod l'or Renner/Nagle and 37 percent votrd l'or Koelsh/Rodarte. 20 percent of voters chose the other two tickets. And Wednesday's vote was a clear lie. There was no win~,er. A third vote was vital. 
In any election. the winner must have a simple majority -51 percent or the vote. Koelsh/Hodarte was the only ticket to do so, in any of the elections. Thus. there is no cause for discussion or review. 
I made a commitment to have mv voire heard by voting on Friday, even if' I did have to go all the way to the Noble Dining Hall to do so. Apparently, other Saint Mary's women did the very same thing, including off-campus students. 
I sincerely hope that Georgeanna Rosenbush and the Elections Committee will not renege their resolution in light of current hustling by a losing ticket. If everyone is truly interested in doing what is "best for the student body," as llenner stated in yesterday's article, thev will stand behind the derision of that student body. 
Fridav's decision should stand. Koelsh/Rodarte was the choice of the campus and the Observer Editorial Board. I look forward to experienr.ing the fruits of their leadership. · 
Desiree Hollis Junior Le M.u1s Hall Fdirnary 7, 2000 


Students should omit 'sucks' cheer 
Congratulations on a fantastic turn-around season in men's bas­ketball. I have been attending games since rgraduated in '75 and am very excited about Matt Doherty and all that is happening to make basketball great at Notre Dame. 
I have one grievance which l hope can be resolved by the stu­dent body, namely, the ''sucks" cheer after each opponent's name is called. It occurred to me, after that great comeback game against West Virginia, how active the student body is in the commu­nity. Many support all kinds of community services and lead the way in the nation toward helping kids. Would any of the students want to cheer "sucks" if they were standing in front of one of the kids they help? Though I doubt they would want to look­that raunchy individually, they seem to take on a different char­acter as a group. It's nol really all right if the whole student body is anonymously raunchy. 
I watch the kids in the crowd who are very interested in what the student body is doing. As an alum, I am also very hopeful that the students will represent all the University is about with charac­ter. In fact, they did throughout the game. To the students. and whole crowd, do not resort to foul stuff very often. 
I hope we can come up with a more resourceful cheer to accom­pany reading The Observer dur­ing the introductions. 
Tim McBride 
Class of 1975 February 7, 2000 


What time is it? 
Could somebody please set that big clock over there on O'Shag? I don't wear a watch, so I haven't been getting to class on time much lately. T'd do it myself, but I don't really know how. 
Andy Ankowski 
Senior, Off-Campus 
February 7, 2000 

Ralph Nader for 
U.S. President 
Ralph Nader for president! Named by Life magazine as one of the 100 most influential Americans or the Twentieth Century. Defender of the working class. Founder of Public Citizen -the nation's largest consumer advocacy organization. A constant critic of the World Trade Organization and corporate irresponsibility. Former presiden­tial candidate for the Green party. He cannot be bought off by big­buck special interests and fat-cat campaign donors. There is no other person even remotely qualified to be President of the United States. 
John Cassella Denver, Colo. January 30, 2000 

Please stop 
•

saying 'retard' 
When I was growing up my father used to take my family on these trips to Notre Dame. I used to call it his glory time since he was kind or reliving the past. I also got the impression that Notre Dame was this wonderful place where nothing goes wrong. 
Ever since I started going here, 1 found that it has its problems just like everywhere else does. However, there is one problem which gets under my skin. It is when I hear my fellow class­mates use the word "retard" to describe how they feel or what they look like. 
There arc two reasons why this bugs me. First, I have an older brother who is a "retard," so I have grown up with people staring at him and making him fell out of place. Second, out of all the people in the world, they are the only ones who cannot defend themselves. I also know that most mentally disabled people know that it means something negative about them. 
I know that nobody would call some­one a "retard" who actually is mentally disabled. However. it is the idea behind the word that still exists. Ijust hope that people will be a little more thoughtful before they say "retard." 
Aaron Cook 
Junior, Zahm Hall February 7, 2000 


CONCERT REVIEW 
Chicago warmly welcomes The Samples 
By LISA BRUNO Scene ~fusic Critic 
Astrong opening from the np-and­comi11g-Boston band. The Pushstars. set the mood Friday night at the House or Blues in Chicago. The Pushstars have been touted as the "next big thing" and proved they were worthy of the title with a solid set. As Tho Samples walked on stage and opened with an energizing ver­sion of "Little Silver Ring," complete with the seasonal lyrics. "it's snowing cold, why aren't you here for me to hold," it seemed difficult to compre­hend whv thev haven't seen broader success. Pcrh~ps it can be accrndiled to the difficult path they have trav­eled. The Samples have had a rocky career. almost as rocky as the moun­tains of their home base in Colorado, where they got their start in Boulder in 1987. Since that time. they have signed with three record labels, gone through a number of management. changes and, much to their fans' dis­may, had a breakup scare with the parting of two original members. Yet through all of this, The Samples have stuck together. lt was apparent Friday night that the glue that binds them together is the amazing and seemingly infinite talent of the band's leader. Sean Kellv. Kellv's rare talent combined with a ·certai~ purity of the band's members sets The Samples apart from other bands. The word "filter" does not seem to appear in Kelly's vocabulary. as he lyrically holds nothing back. An ever-present sadness is heard in his voice, and patches of happiness can be seen in his lyrics. For example, in "Nothing Lasts For Long," Kelly uses words that evoke a pain understood by an audi­ence of fans that affectionately 
mouths each syllable in harmnnious union. 
Seeing The Samples at the !louse of Blues was a surreal dream come lrue for any longtime fan. They played some their most requested and rarely heard dassics like "Information" and "Indiana," along with standbys like "When It's Raining" and "Close To The Fires." 
During the concert. !'ans speculated that they returnl'd io classic favorites because bassist Andy Sheldon was injured two weeks prior and was not able to play. Facing the difficulty of' being short one member. The Samples appeared to rise to the challenge by stepping it up a bit and appealing to the whims of adoring fans. With this infusion. the band displayed a conf'i­d ent cohesiveness as it jammed through almost two hours o[ music, causing one veteran Samples concert­goer to remark, "They responded to the challenge issued tonight!" 
To compensate for the lack of a bassist. the band also set up a game o!' checkers on stage. In what may be called as a symbolic move. the check­ers game was placed where the bassist would havr. appeared, perhaps in a deliberate display of respect for his absence. A f'ew lucky fans were permitted to bypass guards and climb onstage to play checkers an arm's length away from Kelly. This caused a short session of chaos in the middle of' the show as fans desperately attempt­ed to get on stage. 
One of the highlights of the show came when Kelly performed two acoustic songs. The first, "Feel Us Shakin'," is a staple Samples concert song that, in its entirety, says so much about Kelly: ''I'd like to stay, but l couldn't stay with you. I have to go, but I have a lot I want to do." The sec­ond acoustic song is unreleased, titled "Water Under The Bridge." This song was written in· response to a Chicago house fire that killed one person and exemplifies pure Sean Kelly, as he draws parallels between the house fire and the untimely deaths of his parents. 


The absolute highlight of the show came with Kelly's announcement that The Samples will be releasing three albums and a documentary in April. This is almost like sensory overload for Samples' fans as the band hasn't released an album since 1998's Here and Somewhere Else. After the con­cert, pushing through the brutal Chicago wind somehow didn't seem as difficult knowing that April, and more Samples material, is right around the corner. 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Coe serves up a country music feast 
By BRAD FARMER 
Scene Music Critic 
The following is the recipe for a typi­cal David Allan Coe concert. Combine 45 years of country music experience and classic hits in a concert hall. Add wild stories of prison, alcohol and women. Then gently sprinkle with various bikers. tattoo artists. and out­laws. Finally. bake at 100 degrees under f1ashing lights. Serve immediate­ly with a shot of whiskey. 
David Allan Coe served this culinary delight on Feb. 3 at the 3rd Annual Old School Tattoo Convention in Indianapolis. The concert featured two opening acts -Captain Don Leslie and the energetic band Black Oak Arkansas. The opening acts helped rile the already-rowdy r,rowd for the emer­gence of the featured artist. 


Finally, at HJ p.m., the "Mysterious Hhinestone Cowboy" took the stage to the cheers of his fans. Supported by a six-member back-up band, Coe flexed his tattooed musical muscles and helped transport his audience on a country music time machine. Wearing a black leather vesl. blue jeans and cowboy boots. the 6-foot-3 Coe and his flowing gray beard towered over the audience as his massive hands cngulfod his guitar. 
After opening his conc:erl with the Allman Brothers' classic "Melissa," Coe launched into a version or "Please Come to Boston." lie then played one of his oldest songs, "Jack Daniel's If You Please." written in 1957. 
Coe shared sovr.ral storios with the audience that helped explain the lyrics nf' his songs. Bcl'orc playing "If That Ain't Country," Coo described how Johnny Cash had helped him "gN out of prison" during his youth in Ohio. "If il weren't l'or Johnny Cash," Coe said. "I wouldn't b11 here playing tonight!" Appropriately. Coe then constructed a musical collage ol' Cash's most famous songs, including "Folsom Prison l31ues." 
Coe also played some new songs 
from his latest album. Hecommendcd 
for Airplay, including "Song for the 
Year 2000" and "A Harley Someday." 
The crowd especially appreciated the latter song, pointing often to Harley­Davidson T-shirts. hats and bandanas while singing along with Coe. "Drink Canada Dry," a song that the organiza­tion MADD has attacked as inappropri­
ate,  also  generated  an  enormous  
response from the crowd.  
After Coe had played for  a solid two  

hours, he said goodnight and left the stage. The rowdy crowd refused to dis­perse, though, and continuously chant­ed "D.A.C." To the cheers of the audi­ence, Coe and his band reemerged and playr.d his classic bits "Longhaircd HednAck." "Tennessee Whiskcv" and "You Never Even Called Mc ·by My Name." 
Coe finished his final set with the haunting song "The Ride." which describr.s an imagined roadside en('(Juntcr with the ghost of country legend Hank Williams. As the final notes of "The Hide" were playAd, the crowd showed its appreciation of Coc·s music by giving him a thunderous round of applausP. 
!\!though no one will mistake David Allan Coe for Martha Stewart. it was evident that Coe also had a !'lair for preparing his own distinctive cuisine. As the satisfied crowd left for the night with bellies full of' rndneck country music. it definitrdy looked as if fans had gained a few pounds. 




