
BP is the place to 'B' 
The Prodigal Son takes three states 
The women ofBreen-Phillips speak out about George iv. Bush picks up many delegates and Wednesday
their home away from home. 
the Republican lead in Virginia, Washington and North Dakota. 
MARCH t
Scene . page 15 News . page 6 

2000 

The Independent Newftipaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXX.Xlll NO. 94 

ND professor earns prestigious position 
By JESSICA DAUES 
Nt.·ws \XI 1itcr 
PPter (;arnavich. Notn~ Danw physics prnfnssor, is currrmlly enjoying tlw profes­sional privilf'gn of his li!P-as a membPr or Lhe Supnrnova lntensivP SurV('Y t1'am, a stllect group of' astro1{omers who are using thP. llubblP Space TPlrsrnpP to watch a cP!P.stial collision 169.000 light years away. 
In this nevpr-lwfor11-seen ocrurrl'llC'I', tlrn debris from a 1987 supPrnova (an nxploding star) will collid<' with 1h11 gas rings surrounding !hr• site. 
"We an• rarc•lv abl(' to see a rollision such :1s this in our lifctimP. Usually we are only able to study tlw aftermath." said Garnavich. · 
Tlw comp!(•X systPms or gas rings Pncirding tlw supPrnova havl' long puzzled astronomPrs. ' 
"WP don'l lhink that most sup1'rnovas havr! rings of gas suc-h as thr>st• surrounding them. This is a vr1ry unique sit­uation." said Garnavich. 
ThP rnllision b1-,twecn the debris and thP gas will illumi­natP prnviously unseen matter in thP rings. giving astronomers new insight into tlw rnmposition of the gas rings and llrn condition of the star bPforp it explodml. 
EarliPr this month, Garnavich and his colleagues wen\ abli-to obsPrve tlw gases begin to glow as they were bomhardfld by 40-milion­miles-per-hour debris. On Feb. 
2. four new knots of super­heated gas appearPd for thn lirsl. time. 
"The real lirf'works show is finally starting, and over the next 10 y1-,ars things will get spectacular," said Garnavich. "lt helps that the Hubble is giv­ing us an unparalleled view." 
Th1-, Hubble Telescope allows Garnavich and the members or his tDam to observe and gather more arcurate information about the rings than any other telescope on narth. 
"The air in the atmosphere is constantly moving, which scatters light and blurs the view of the images of the tele­scopes here on earth," said Garnavich. "The Hubble Telesrope, on the other hand, is above the atmosphere. We can get a dearer picture by using the Hubble Telescope." 
Joining Garnovich are Supernova Institute Survoy team mr.mbors Robert Kirshner of the Harvard­Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, Nick Suntzeff of the Cerro Tololo Observatory in Chile, George Sonneborn and Jason Pun of :'JASA Goddard Space Flight Center. 
Later this year, the team plans to use the Hubble to make follow-up observations and watch what is considered to be the one of the biggest celestial collisions ever seen. 

CLASS OF 2003 ELECTION RESULTS 

Thursday
32.55% Moscona 
] 

Run-offs 
62.81% Turnout 
JOSE CUELLAR/The Ob~erver 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



HACKIN' IT 


Moscona, Foley face off Thursday 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Writer 
Two tickets distanced them­S('] ves from a field of six in Tuesday's 2003 class council primary revote, setting up a run-off election on Thursday. 
The Brian Moscona ticket emergPd as the leader yester­day, winning 32.6 percent of' the freshman vote. Moscona and his running mates vice president Libby l3ishop, secre­tarv Alison Trov and treasurer Nick Mastronardi will face the Trip Foley ticket, which cap­tured 24.2 perc-ent of the pri­mary vote. Foley's running mates include vice president Kathleen Hammond, secretary Emily Wolf and treasurer Jordan Linville. 
"It feels really good to receive so much support, we're very excited. This [victory] comes as the result of a lot of hard work." Moscona said of the election. 
Although Moscona is pleased with the results of the primary, he said he wished voter turnout would have been higher. 
According to official election committee tallies, 62.8 percent of all freshmen voted in the pri­mary. That figure is compara­ble to the turnout in Monday's vote, said Amanda Dovidio. election committee member. 
Voter turnout first came into question Monday night after that day's primary results were declared null and void due to a balloting error. A number of randidates expressed concern that a revote on Tuesday wouldn't give their classmates ample opportunity to learn of' the new elf'ction and turn out to vote in it. 
Dovidio said the election com­mittee worked actively to dispel this worry. She said much of the credit for the turnout on Tuesday goes to residence hall staff members. 
"The dorms did a great job in making freshmen aware of the revote situation. We [the elec­tion committee] contacted hall rectors through voice-mail messages, and they, in turn, worked hard to pass along the information to the freshmen," said Dovidio. 
The voiding of Monday's 200:{ class council vote marked another controversial turn in a Notre Dame student govern­ment election. It came just weeks after the conflict involv­ing the newly-elected student body president and vice presi­dent Brian ()'Donaghue and Brooke Norton. 
Dovidio stressed that Tuesday's vote was handled 
see ELECTION/page 4 page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, March 1, 2000 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Catholic isn't 
all that counts 
Tn choosing to attend Saint Mary's, I was fully aware of its Catholic affiliation. However, as schools that explicitly pride themselves on the diversity of the student bodies, I anticipated that Saint Mary's and the Notre Dame communities would be open tu other faiths and cultures as well. Though both schools receive much of their backing from Catholic organizations. one would hope that such "liberal" schools would not try to impose tlwir beliefs on any attendee. To me, this does not seem to be the case. 
One of Tuesday's letters to the editor proposed that admission to Notre Dame be dependent not only on grades, u~st srorf's, etc.. but also on the students' compli­ance \\ith Catholic doctrines. Tho ½TitPr suggpsted that students must agnH' with Catholicism to attend. Is this the course the schools wish to take'? While it is true that a major­ity of studonts here are C.atholir, thrre are cer­tainly other faiths and beliefsystems well repre­sented on our rampuses. Our community would be larking if those students had be<'n turnf'd away based on their faith. 
I am familiar ,Nith the Catholic stance regarding sex and the du Lac's prohibition ofsex on cam­pus. Possibly the administration truly believes that if it's in the du Lac, it's what is practiced. Right. Walk into any dorm on a Friday night, follow the sound of loud music and people, and you are sure to find plenty of du Lac ,iolations. Perhaps I am one of the few realistic people who see that within a large group of social youngsters, sex happens. Mv friends tell mr that at their non-religious affili­ated schools. they need go no farther than their RA for advice, information, condoms, etc. It is appalling that this community doesn't even offer the opportunity for students to be safe if they do engage in the forbidden intercourse. 
This attitude pervades even the school Health Services. All of mv sisters and rhave had to take birth control pills· for health reasons -not to guard against our promiscuous ways -but to alleviate a hormone imbalance. ½'hen I tried to {ill my prescription through Health Services, I was treated rather rudely. Initially I was told that they "just couldn't deliver that prescription" for me. After speaking with several different nurses to determine why (not even thinking of the sexual implications), I was informed that they needed a letter signed by the prescribing doctor that diag­nosed the condition for which I took the medica­tion. They also needed to speak with the doctor. This was a terrible inconvenience. 
Just because I attend a Catholic university does not mean that I ascribe to Catholic beliefs. At school, the administration must assume some sort of responsibility as surrogate parents to students. This, to me, means that they must also take responsibility for our health. The Catholic beliefs made it verv difficult for me to get necessary med­ication and"make it nearly impossible for non­abstaining students to protect themselves from STDs. 
I'm not asking that either school outwardly advocate or condone sexual relations. I agree wholeheartedly that sex is sacrnd and most appropriate in marriage. Nevertheless, sex does occur here. No amount of faith can deny that Religion aside. both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame nend to realize that the safety and health of stu­dents should concern them far more than their doctrinal principles. 
The virws expressed in the Inside Column are thosP of the author and not necessarily those of'/he Ohseruer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Scene  
Kare Sreer  Mike Vanegas  
Sam Derheirner  Jacueline Browder  
. Helena Rayam  Graphics  
Spores  Jose Cuellar  
Tim Casey  Production  
Viewpoint  Rachael Protzman  
Dustin Ferrell  Lab Tech  
Liz Lang  

The Obmvn (USPS 599 2-'1000J is published Monday through l;rid.iy except J11ring exam and v2c1tion periods. The Ob:ierver is a membrr of rhr Associ:1ted Pres.s. All reprodllction rights are reserved. 
THIS WEEK IN MICHIANA 
\'Vednesday  Thursday  
. Art: Water Color class  . Art: "Time Warp," by  
by Barb Fuson, Nappanee  Niles Handweavers Guild,  
Public Library, 9:30 a.m.  Fernwood Botanic Garden  
to 3:30 p,m.  . Film: "East Indies, Gift  
. Music: "Hymns for the  of the Sea," Michigan City  
Virgin: A concnrt of sacred  Junior High School  
Renaissance tunes," Notre  Performing Arts Center,  
Dame Basilica, 7:30 p.m.  7:30 p,m.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
MIT receives $350 million gift for brain research 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

MIT received a pledge for $350 milliou Monday to create a new institute on brain research, the largest single gift to a university ever. The institute will focus on the way humans learn and communi­cate. 
"IThisJ will launch ono of tho most profound and important scientific ventures of the next cPntury, and what surely will be a cornerstone of :VIIT's scientific contributions in the decades ahead," said MIT President Charles Vest in a press release. 
The gift. pledged jointly by Patrick McGovern Jr., a 1959 graduate in biophysics from MIT and mcmber of the MrT Corporation, and his wife Lore Harp l\lcGovern. will bci paid over the next 20 years to tlrn univer­sity. 
The previous largest donation to a 
Dad: UM fails to address abuse 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 
The father of a University of Michigan student who fell to her death from her dorm room window in 1998 is suing the university, claiming it failed to teach the dangers of drug and alcohol abuse. George Cantor filed suit in August after his daughter, Courtney Cantor, fell from her loft bed through an open sixth­floor window and onto a loading dock during the predawn hours of Oct. 16, 1998. A judge dismissed part of the lawsuit against Michigan that claimed the university failed to provide a reasonably safe building for students occupying dorm rooms at Mary Markley Hall, where Cantor lived. The dorm is a public build­ing, according to the claim, and the university failed to warn students about unsafe conditions at the hall. The other part of the claim, filed in .January, includes a breach of contract claim against Michigan, alleging the university had an obligation to warn Cantor about the dangers of alcohol and drug abuse. Nancy Allen, Michigan State University Health Education Services coordinator, said most universities put a lot of empha­sis on educating students about drugs and alcohol. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Da)' South Bend Forecast AccuWeather~forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H  L  
Thursday  ~  43  30  
Friday  Q ' ' ' '  '  47  31  
Saturday  ~  47  30  
Sunday  ~  48  35  
Monday  ''t~  54  40  
,.  ,:,,..,,~  
,-... )  

9,~,~9'5}.Q{)~d 
Showers T--storms Rain Flurries si,o\N Ice Sunny Pt. Cfoudy Cloudy Via Associaied Pra5s GraphicsNat 

Officials envision the institute as an interdisciplinary ostablishment. The institutc's scope will include neuroscience, molecular neurobiolo­gy, bioengineering, cognitive sci­ences, computation and ge1rntics, according to its mission statement. The institute plans to heavily use new technology that allows vinws of' the brain never before possible. 
FAFSA drug-question policy changes 
TUCSON, Ariz. 

Students who leave the new drug offensn question blank on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FASFA) can still receive financial aid because of a U.S. Department of Education decision last week. In response to more than 100,000 applicants who left the question blank, department ol'ficials decided to add a warning in the Student Aid Report to those who didn't fill out the question. Under the new rules, applications missing a rcsponso for the question that asks if the stu­dent has ever been convicted of any illegal drug offense will still be processod, but students must alert ol'ficials if they have been convicted. Before, schools would not process applications that did not provide an answer to the question, said Lisa Cain, spokeswoman for Student Financial Assistance for the Department of Education. Cain said students who left the question blank thought it didn't apply to them, which slowed the processing of the forms. The quostion resulted from the Higlrnr Education Act of 1998. and was intended to stop stu­dents convicted of selling or buying drugs from receiv­ing aid. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather" forecast for noon, Wednesday, March 1. Lines separale high temperature zones for the day 
0 2000 AccuWeathar, Inc. COLD WARM srArtONARY 
Pr11srwre: .~..i-;. 
®© ..~. CJ . ()~iii...,f/l~ig 
High Low Showers Rain T-storms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
VIS Associared Pre" 

Atlanta 71 48 Las Vegas 60 42 Portland 53 37 Baltimore Gt 41 Memphis 70 47 Seattle 51 37 Boston 54 31 Milwaukee 44 25 St. Louis 59 36 Chicago 50 27 New York 51 40 Tampa 78 56 Houston 74 57 Philadelphia 57 42 Wash DC 63 42 
Friday 

. 
Music: Brazilian concert, featuring Chicago Samba School, Reckers Cafe, 8 p.m. 

. 
Theater: "Clue." by the Mishawaka Civic TheatrP, Rattell Community Center, Mishawaka, 8 p.m. 


MIT officials said brain research has great potential to improve human health and quality of life. They also said that the institute will offer opportunities for undergradu­ate and graduate students t.o work with the program. 
The new institute will Im named tlrn McGovern Institute for Hrain Hesc1arch. Its founding director will be MIT professor Phillip Sharp, for­mer chair of the MIT biology depart­ment and a 1<J<n Nobel laureate in rnedicino. 
MIT plans to construct a new building to house the program. 
The new institute will have a team of' 16 researchers, IO of' whom will bo new faculty nrnmbrrs. Tlw faculty nrnmbers will hold appointments in departments related to brain rcsearch. such as biology or electri­cal 1mgimiering. 
Saturday 
. 
Festival: Ceilidh, Irish entertainment and food. St. Patrick's parish center, South Bend, 6:30 p.m. 

. 
Dance: Dance Kaleidoscopo, ELCO PPrforming Theater, Elkhart, 7:30 p.m. 



Wednesday, March 1, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Observer announces top positions for '00-'0l 
By FINN PRESSLY 
News Wrirer 
Norncn Gillespie and Tim Logan will servP as managing and assistant managing editors. respectively, for tlw 2000-2001 academic year. editor in chief Mikr Connolly announced TuPsdav. Tim LanP will serve as busi~css manager and Hrian Kessler will act as operations managc\r. 
With the editor in rhiel'. the managing Pditor and assistant managing editors are ultimatr,ly rrsponsiblc for the 0ditorial rontent and daily production of the newspaper. 
(;illcspiP, a LeMans llall sophomore. is from Newtown. Conn. /\ politir,al scienc'.e and sociology doublP major. she sNved as the• Saint Mary's r.di­tor on Th<\ Observer's "J 999­:woo Editorial Board. 
'Tm Pxcited about this oppor­tunity to help dirPct thn future of Thi' Observer." Gillesphi said. 'Tm looking forward to work­ing with all of the departments. I've got sonw big shoes to fill ­we all do -but wr,'ve had some rxcellent examples and I hopr that WP ran live up to thosP rxamples in 2001." 
A SiPgfriPd llall ,iunior from Boston. Logan is an American studies rrn~jor with a conwntra­tion in Journalism. Ethirs and DemocnH'\'. IIP served as news editor du.ring thl' 1999-2000 V!\ar. · ThP business manager is responsiblP for Tlw ObsPrver's finances and budget, whili> the operations manag,!r is rcspon­siblP for oversAeing ThA ObsPrvPr's Operations Board. 
including advertising, Web, sys­tems and graphics drpart­rnents. 
Lane. a junior form Dayton, Ohio, lives in Keenan Hall. He sr,rved as controller on The Observer's 1999-2000 Operations Board and is an accounting major. 
'Tm looking forward to work­ing as business manager because the job will provide me with an opportunity to apply what I've learned in my classes at Notre Dame," said Lane. 
/\ junior from Long Island, N.Y., Kessler served as The Observer's most recent sports editor. I-le currently lives in Stanford llall and is majoring in finance. 
Connolly also announced the 2000-2001 General Board. Editors and managers are responsible for the administra­tion of dr,partments and for the content of their respective sec­tions of the nr,wspaper: 
Editorial Board 
news editor: Anne Marie Mattingly Viewpoint editor: Lila 
Haughey Scene editor: Amanda Greco sporL"i editor: Kerry Smith Saint Mary·s editor: Molly 
McVov photo ;dilor: Jjz Lang 
Operations Board 
aclvP.rtising manager: Pat 
Pett~rs advertising design: Chris Avila svstems administrator: MikA 
"Gunville Web administrator: Adam Turner graphics editor: Jose Cuellar 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
BOG to sponsor service project 
get to do, and it will be fun By COURTNEY BOYLE to do it with and for families News Writer that need our help," Yavello 
said. 

Board of Governance BOG offered the 12 stu­voted unanimously to co­dents and one faculty mem­sponsor an Appalachian ser­br,r $600 for the trip. BOG vice trip and a program to gave $500 for a similar trip invite Bayyinah Belloa. a over fall break. native of IIaiti, to lecture at "I am very much looking Saint Marv's at their forward to this opportunity, Tuesday· and I am so excited and meeting. very grate­
Junior ful to BOG
"We 're going to get the 
Genevieve for their
chance to do the kind of
Yavello generous requested work that most ofus donation," co-sponsor­don't get to do. " Yavello 
ship of the said. service pro­BOG also 
Genevieve Yavello
ject. Saint allotted Mary's and junior money to Notre Dame b r i n g students Belloa. a will travel to Clintwood, Va., profPssor and grassroots to work with nuns repairing leader of campaigns for lit­underprivilf'ged families· eracy. to Saint Mary's on houses. March 26 through 30. She 
"We 're going to get the will speak in five classes chance to do the kind of and deliver one public lec­work that most of us don't ture on the role of women in 
Haiti. 
"Bayyinah will help us here at Saint Mary's College to develop a deeper awarn­ness of the realities of women in developing coun­tries and to understand our responsibilities as citizens in relation to countries such as Haiti," senior Katie Cousino said. 
Representatives also dis­cussed plans for the upcom­ing Women's Month. Several events, including an art dis­play in LeMans Hall Lobby, are scheduled for March. 
"Women's month is right around the corner. it is very exciting," said Angie Little, Saint Mary's student body vice-president. 
Other evens sr,heduled for March include a Notre Dame comedian at Dalloway's on March 6. a folk group per­formance on March 22. a March 27 spirit softball game and the last open mic night at Dalloway's on March 29. 
CORRECTION 

An article that appeared in Tuesday's edition of Thr, Observer reported the death of Nancy Fallon. and incorrectly identified Fallon as a volunteer of St. Joseph's Soup Kitchen in South Bend. She was a volunteer of St. Augustine's Soup Kitchen in South Bend. The article also stated that Fallon was 45; she was 44. Fallon is survived by her husband Steve and three chil­dren: Samuel. 14; Claire. 11; and Daniel. 9. All three children attend St. Joseph School. She is also survived by her mother, Marilyn 1-lunbgarland, of Richmond, Ky., and a brother. Mark Hungarland. of Lindenhurst, Ill. 
The Observer regrets the errors. 

-w~.-.~ ~«> I.-.--v~s~ o--v~.-•a~o~ooo
Ii 
--..rff;II.t to Lea,:r.._ IIo~ to 
;i 
III.-vest Yo-...:r O~II. ~oII.eyTiI J-...s't -wa..,II..'t to ha..,-ve some :I:ree pi.zza.., be:ro:re 'the ga..,me'?
I 
I ~ 
I 
i 
I
i
IiI 

II Spe~ial Guest TonigLt: ­i Ben Burhedge of McDonald ln...estments ....,ill 
~
i share his L:no....,ledge of the ln~eslmenl lndustr-,,I 
iI  WI.en: TonigLt, Mar<:L 1st  
~iI  . Time: 7:00 p.m. WL.ere: Room 121 CODA.  
IIII  For More Information, visit our Website at wwv\T.nd.edu/~invclub Questions or requests to be put on the email list can be emailed to tpariso@nd.edu  

STUDY ABROAD SUMMER PROGRAMS 
Earn college credit, choose from one of two exciting learning experiences 
MULTICULTURAL LONDON & IRELAND IN PERSPECTIVE 
June 10, • July 1, 2000 (6 credits) 
A two-week "hands-on" exploration of London and its multi-ethnic culture and history, followed by one week in Nothem Ireland examining its continuing conflict 
INCLUSIVE COST S4,100 
A non-refundable deposit of $600 due on April 1, 2000 Full payment due May 1 
limiled lo 20 studerrts 
ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES & SPANISH IN COSTA RICA 
June 8, -July 3, 2000 (3 credits Environmental Studies 3 credits Spanish) 
An introduction to the environmental issues of Costa Rica, through field trips, seminars and readings, and Spanish langauge immersion experience including home stayli 
INCLUSIVHOST $3,800 
A non-refundable deposit of $600 due on April I, 2000 Full payment due May 1 
lim~ed lo 20 studen!s 

FRIENDS WORLD PROGRAM 
loNGlsIAND
~wrr
d~~ 
CALL: 631-287-8474 for more information 
page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March l, 2000 
Panel: Diversity is essential for understanding others 

By KRISTEN ALLEN News Write, 
Students spoke about the impor­tancr of going abroad and being open to new cultures at. Wednrsday'.s studr.nt-run forum. "McCulturc: Americanism vs. Cross Culturalism." 
"To Pnjoy cross culturalism. you need rultural diversity.'' said Carol­Luc Jonard, a Frnn('.h <'X('.hange stu­dPnl at Notrn Damn. 
Coing abroad not only opens stu­dnnts to new cultures, it also gives students a better awareness or tlwir own culture and idr,ntitv, the speaknrs agrf'ed. · 
"Cross-culturalism is foundP<l on friendship and mutual trust," said freshman Annamarin BindemagPo, an ,\nrnrican who lived in Germany for eight years. "Understanding it and promoting it is the basis l'or personal id,111tity and intnrnational pPace." 
"Going abroad is first interesting bucause you learn about tho French culturr. and also about vour own culturr.." Jonard agreed. · 
lmnrnrsing oneself in a nr:w cul­tun' is not always an Pasy thing to do. however 
"You ner.d fo br, daring to step out ol' your own sr.11' bnrnusc it's scary to br fared with nPw ideas and choicPs," said junior Lina Sidrys. who studind abroad in Franco and is ol' Lithuanian origin. 
Sidrys also warnnd of tlrn dangPr in having too strong a national ide 11 l ity b(\ C a u SC O f' tlrn r iS k O f' ignoring the identity of othrrs. Shr nmphasizcd the importancn of' awareness and undnrstanding. 
"ThP kev to cross-r.ulturalism is looking th.rough a different lens lo view culturr from a different ang!P." she said. 
"[lt'sl the idea that people are thn same the world ovPr but vou have to look al your own identity to be 

able to fully understand different cultures." Angela Cantu. a junior who spent a year in Spain. agreed. 
"We [the Unitf'd States! are one or the most diversn and developed countries in thn world and mutually onn of llrn most Pthnoc:Pntrir•." shri said. 
Cantu also spok(1 o.f nationalism in Spain and the dif'ferPnt•p betw(1en Spain and thl' United StatPs, "Spain's Pssenc<1 thriv<1s on thP col­l<'<'tive, 'Ogullo cl<' SN Pspanol' ­pridn of bl'ing Spanish," Cantu said. "It's a very passionate and unil'ying f'ori:e -a concept of self that seems so clear to thPrn nnd yrt so rn11d­dlr-d for us." 
Many rountriPs arr rrsentful of thn UnitPd States. senior Tim Knller said. lie spent tlw sumnwr working for Jlonnywell Corporation in Moscow. lie discussed thP Russian prrception of J\nwricanism and tlw need for better nd ucation. 
"Comparr~d to communism, dPmo­cratic Hussians have to worry for the first tinw about whern they arc going to work. where thrir children will b1! Pducatcd, and whert> tlwy can obtain lrnalthcarP. Undnr the communist rr:ginw. all tlwse ne(~ds W<'rn proviclnd by tlrn govPrnnwnt." hr said. 
"Otlrnr countriPs arr nxporting th(~ir goods to Hussia. so murh so that Hussian-mad!' consumer goods arn almost nonexistrnt. Tlw rPsult is a snvrrP rash out!low resulting in ront.inuPd stagnant domnstic dPvP!­oprnrnt," said Krll<'r. 
"It doPsn 't malty matter what fiP!d you'rn going to work in," said Bindcmagno. "Cross-culturalisrn is going to lw.lp you pPrsonally, and in your career. 
The discussion panel consistr,d of five students of different cultural backgrounds and experieni:es. M('.Culture is a student-run forum sponsored by Thn Nanovic lnstitutn for European Studies. 
Election 
continued from page 1 
fairlv. 

"It ~as not just a quick. spur­of-the-moment eler:tion. Information was passed along to freshmen. Mondav·s results were thrown out. and ·the voting was totallv redone. It was a fair elec­tion,'; Dovidio said. 
While Moscona said the process of taking part in two elections was very frustrating. he echoed Dovidio's sentiments. 
"I think [the Election Committee members] handled this situation in the best, most fair way possible," Moscona said. 
The Moscona and Foley tickets will join the 2001 tickets of Bache! Gernerd and Elliot 1\Jelson in Thursday's run-off elections. Voting timfls are 11 a.m. to 1 
p.m. and 5 to 7 p.m. 


-When; Wedne5day March I"-Friday March 3'0 9;30 PM .,,, Where; Montgomery Theater on the I" floor of Lafortune -Featured Films: 
-'lo' Wedne5day; HEATHERS with l..¼non.a Ryder _,,, Thursday: A LEAGUE Of THEIR OWN with Geena D.!vis ""' With an introduction from a former player ofthe Ail American Girls Profession.al Baseball League <l<lil' Friday; &.lfM WITH Siq01..1mey Weave-r 
COME JOIN US!I! 


ill\" 
C
....··...............·....···.•·.·..·.
~, 
~-.:·

orld 
III 
~~r¼m: 

Wednesday, March 1, 2000 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Possible errors warrant recount for Iran elections 
TEHRAN. Iran 
.!\11Lhorities on TuPsday nrdPred a partial n\rnt111l ol' vol(\S cast in Tt>hrun during par!ia­nwn tarv nlrwtions to ·'dis1wl anxiety" about possihl;, errors, statP nwdia r<'ported. The of'lirial Islamic llnpublic N,1ws Ageucy said the rProun1 vnrnld lw dorw in the next five days in tlw prt>sr•n1•.p of obsnrvPrs from the Interior ;\linistry and thn Guardians Council. which SUJH'l'Viscs el1\1·tio11s l{pformists allird to l'nisid,•nl !'vlohammad Khatami won the top 2(J positions in a slat<' or :rn seats allotted to T<•hran in tlw Feb. 18 P!Pctions. The 30th snat was won bv fornwr President Hashemi Hafsanjnni. 1i one<' popular lnader who fared dismally brwause of his inrr('asPd assodatirm wilh h,;rd-linPrs. Tlrn n•rnunt apparently was ordPrNl lwntus1\ of romplaints by a candidate who finislwd 31st. IRl\iA did not say how many ballots would bl' rnr.ounted. 
Rwandan prime minister resigns after accusations 
KIGALI. Rwanda 
Hwanda's prime minist!'r has resigned amid acrusations of r.orruption. ending months of invPsligaLion that entang[Pd thl' country's top politirnl IPadc•rs in scandal. In a resignation !(!tl!'r to Bwanda's prnsident on Monday. Pil'ITP-Ce!Pslin Hwigema said a hostile media rnmpaign and a parliamPnlary inquiry that found him guilty of rmb<'zzlrrnent had made it impossiblP to l'ulrill his rnsponsibilities as prime ministPr. While thr· prime minister's post is larw•ly C!'remonial. Hwigcma becomes tlw third top Hutu official in tlrn government to slop down in nH:11nt months. Although Ilutus hold oflicial posts. minority Tutsis dom­inatP tlw government and military. Rwigema's pnlitiral party. thr Democratic Republic Movement. has 15 days to propose his rnplacPnwnt, Radio Rwanda said. The MDR is llw country's main Hutu political party. 
Priest convicted for noisy bells 
!,'AQUILA, Italy 
Siding with annoyed residents, a court in this central Italian mountain town on Tuesdav convicted a stubborn parish priest of disturb·­ing tlw prace by hooking his church bells up to an electronic amplifier. The conflict started two years ago after the cleric rigged up an amplil'iPr in the parish's bell tower. Local media quoted Lhe priest at the time as dis­missing opponents of the amplified clangor as "communists." In Tuesday's decision, the L'Aquila court ruled on complaints brought by residents of the parish of St. Stefano di PizzoIi, and ordered the Rev. Palo Piccoli to pay a $200 line. Police seized the bells in January and placed the bell tower amplifier under seal. 
••tiiiMMJWMW#II
Dow A:VIRx: 
973.2~ 

]ONES +s.ss 
l'iasdaq:

+89.66 

4696.69 
+118.84 
NYSE 
592.64 
+8.44 
S&P 500: 1366.42

10,128.31 
t-18.37 
VOLUME LEADERS 


CPflFAHX rowu CORP  TlQtlE romc  \  CINtPI . 76.06  •SBINGA +1. 0800  RRT .I 2.50  
APrlNIT~ 'I:J!:CH  ~Pl  +185.l7  +l. 7.:il.12  4. .19  
IM>.C.:ING 'l'ECH CR  ITEC"  +38.15  +C.8150  :2.94  
3Cot'I CO-Rl'  COMS  ,:u.ts  +18.3375  98 .00  
V!!R'l'lCl..i. COMPU'l'  VCS'l  -49.91  -0,66164  l.Sl  
MICR0901"T CORP  MSP"T  -l, 38  ~:i. 1845  89. 38  
OUCL~ ~0119 DRt.L COMl'U'l'Zll MCI WORLDCOM IN C'OMPAO C"OMPUTE:R  ~l!.CL DJ!LL WCOH ~•o  +!.. 'lO ~0.'6 "'"a. a, -1.U  +5. 6'l'50 -0.1900 +C. 37-0Q -0. 3800  7f .25 ,o.81 U..fi.l 21!! .14  

Composite 
Volume: 

1,452,~57,160 
COMPILED FROM TUE OBSEHVER WIHE SERVICES page 5 
MOZAMBIQUE 


AFP Photo 

A Mozambican family stranded on a small island in the flooded city of Xai Xai waits to be rescued as water lev­els in the area continued to rise Tuesday. 
Floodwaters trap Mozambicans 
Six-year-old boy murders classmate 
they sat staring blankly ahead, still in shock. Some frightened victims hid when the helicopters approached. Others refused to be rescued. 
Uhle Sithole said the helicopter terrified him, but that he was very glad to be brought away from the water. 
"But now I may die because my stomach is empty," he said, adding he had not eaten since Saturday night. 
Some people managed to build platforms in the trees, and tied bicycles and other belongings to 
the day before the shoot­ing between this little boy and this little girl," Genesee County Prosecutor Arthur Busch said. 
Regardless of what the investigation reveals, it may be impossible to bring charges against the boy, the prosecutor said. But he said someone mav face charges for enabling the boy to obtain the gun. 
"There is a presumption in law that a child ... is not criminally responsible and can't form an intent to kill. Obviously, he has done a very terrible thing today, but legally, he the branches. Some man­aged to get their goats up into the trees, slaughtered them and cooked the meat over fires made on metal sheets. Others had only the clothes on their back. 
The helicopters dropped their human cargo on a stretch of road just feet above the rising flood waters, where many milled around in shock, looking for relatives. 
Aid workers, who esti­mated about 1,000 people had been brought to the road, tried to usher the crowd to a village on higher ground. 
can't be held criminally responsible," the prosecu­tor said. "We will get to the bottom of how that gun got into that little boy's hands." 
The names of the two youngsters were not released. 
The boy is by far the youngest gunman in a series of deadly school shootings that have rocked r.:ommunities around the country over the past three years. In 1998, two boys, 11 and 13, opened fire at a mid­dle sr.:hool in .Jonesboro, Ark., killing four girls and a teacher. 
Associated Press 

LIONDE 
Thousands braced Tuesday evening for a third terrifying night stranded in trees and on rooftops surrounded by swiftly flowing muddy water that stretched for miles in every direction. 
Most people trapped near the submerged village of Lionde had not eaten since early Sunday, when they fled a 6-foot-high wall of water that surged through Mozambique's already flooded Gaza province. 
South African helicopters working from dawn to dusk for three days seemed by Tuesday to only have made a dent in the numbers needing rescue. The helicopters had res­cued 550 Mozambicans by noon Tuesday, in addition to the 4,800 plucked from floodwaters the previous two days, said South African air force Capt. Hugo Weich. 
From one tree alone, a helicopter hoisted an old man and six women with their babies on their backs to safety onboard, where 
Associated Press 

MOUNT MORRIS 
TOWNSHIP, Mich. 
A 6-year-old boy shot a little girl to death in their first-grade classroom Tuesday. a day after they may have scuffled on the playground. 
In a school shooting made especially shocking by the age of the young­sters. the boy fired a bul­let from a .32-caliber gun inside Buell Elementary n1>ar Flint. 60 miles from Delroit, striking his 6­vear-old classmate in the neck. She died a half-hour later. 
The bov was taken into the custody of the state child welfare agency. 
Prosecutors did not say how they think he got the gun, though they said it had been reportf'd stolen in December and was in the boy's home. President Clinlon said he was told the boy's brother gave him the weapon. 
It was unclear whether the shooting was acciden­tal or intentional. 
"It would appear from the investigation so far that there may have been some sort of scuffle or quarrel on the playground 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPAIGN NEWS Wednesday, March I, 2000 
Bush takes all Virginia delegates, leads Republicans 
two Southern conservative can win Soutlrnrn conservative 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON. Va. 
George W Bush forged a 
winning coaliLion of Republican 
regulars and the religious right 
Tuesday to deal rival John 
Mr,Cain a resounding defeat in 
Virginia. Even as next week's 
13-state presidential showdown 
loomed. the Texas governor 
der.lared, "We arP one step 
closer to having a united 
party." 
The see-sawing Republican 
presidential race was fought 
also in North Dakota and 

Washington State, but Bush 
won the bulk of the day's dele­
gates. 56, in the capital of the 
old Confederacy. 

''I've proven I can bring Republirnns out in big num­bers," Bush told The Associated Press in a telephone interview. In a slap at McCain, who blast­ed evangelical leaders Pat Robertson and Jerry Falwell on Monday, the Texas governor told supporters in Cincinnati, "We am expanding our base without destroying our founda­tions." 
McCain congratulated Bush. but dismissed the victory as part of "a Southern strategy" for a candidate who won't win elsewhere. However, McCain is looking ahead to next week's "Super Tuesday" voting. "We have a broad section. a cross­section of America voting all on the same day," McCain said. 
The Texas governor won because Republican voters overwhelmed independents and Democrats who crossed party lines in support of McCain. a warning sign for the Arizona senator as he prepares for New York, California and Ohio and 10 other states conducting GOP contests. 
One dav after McCain labeled certain ·evangelical leaders "agents of intolerance," reli­gious conservatives accounted for 20 percent of the Virginia vote. They backed Bush 8-to-1. prompting the governor to say, "The voters of Virginia rejected the politics of pitting one reli­gion against another." 
McCain's best showing was in the Washington suburbs, the most moderate region in the state, according to surveys of Virginia voters r.onducted by Voter News Service, a consor­tium of the AP and television networks. Bush beat him else­where. 
On the Democratic side, Bill Bradley and Vice President Al Gore squared off in Washington state. No delegates were at stake, but the former New Jersey senator hoped for a symbolic victory to breathe life into his troubled campaign. 
With 89 percent of the Virginia precinr,ts reporting. Bush had 295,348 votes, or 54 perr,ent, McCain had 233,051, or 43 percent, and Alan Keyes had 3 perr.ent. 
Bush won all 56 delegates with his victory in Virginia, giv­ing him a total 149 compared to McCain's 96 so far. A candi­date needs 1,034 delegates to win the Republican nomination. 
Bush's victory fit a pattern sel in t.he early primary fighls; McCain wins if non­Hcpublicans swarm to GOP pri­maries; the Texan wins if Republicans dominate their pri­maries and caucuses. 
In New Hampshire and Mir.higan, site of Mr.Cain's two victories over Bush, Democrats and independents accounted for about half the total vote. In South Carolina and Virginia, states won by Bush, two-thirds of the vote came from self-iden­tified Republicans. 
Virginia's rf'\Sults may serve as a warning fnr McCain as t.he campaign heads into states such as California and New York that bar or place restric­tion on non-ncpublican voting. In upcoming primary states, Democrats will conduct com­peting elections that could siphon votes from McCain. 
The Arizona senator had hoped to follow his victory last week in Michigan with an upset in Virginia to fuel his momen­tum headed to March 7 con­tests. a "Super Tuesday" of vot­ing that could shape the con­tentious campaign. At stake are 613 GOP delegates, more than half the total needed to win the nomination. 
Backed by Gov. James Gilmore and the rest of the Virginia GOP establishment, Bush could not afford a loss in Virginia after leading in polls for weeks 
Bush dismissed suggestions by McCain's campaign that the victory reaffirms only that Bush 

Experi ng wi 



oney $$$$$ 
Work for The Observer Ad Design Department 
If you are a FreshmanJ Sophomore or Junior with Mac skills and want to work for a few hours a week call Brett Huelat at 246-1488 or stop by The Observer office in the basement of the South Dining Hall. You will not find a better job on campus! Great Pay!! Very Flexible!!! 
states. "I won Iowa. I won 
Delaware. We'll see what hap­
pens March 7," Rush said. 
Even as votes were cast in Tuesday's contests, where a total 87 GOP delegates were up t'or grabs, the Republican can­didates camped out in "Super Tuesday" states. 
Trailing among Republicans in delegate-rich California, McCain reversed course and decided to participate -by a satellite TV hookup -in a Los Angeles debate on Thursday in advance of next week's voting there. The Bush camp said he might also take part by satel­lite. 
The increasingly bitter cam­paign is pitting McCain and his coalition of independents and Democrats against Bush and the GOP establishmimt. McCain may have widened the divide by strongly criticizing certain evangelical lead1ns and por­traying Bush as a captive of the religious right. 
McCain also attempted to tie Bush to a conservative South Carolina university that has espoused anti-Catholic views. 
Virginia Primaries 
Bush McCain Keyes,, 
3% 

Bush won all 56 delegates 
Bush has 149 total, McCain 96 1034 is needed for nomination. 
Coming up: "Super Tuesday" -March 7 613 delegates up for grabs 
JOSE CUELLARffhe Observer 
aker? 


motio resume 



Wednesday, March 1, 2000 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
CENTER FOR SPIRITUALITY PRE-LENTEN LECTURE SERIES 
THE MARTYRS OF EL SALVADOR 
Marie l)ennis -Maryknol/ 
Sunday, March 5 
With New Eyes We See: Oscar Romero 
Monday, March 6 
Hearts on Fire: The Four North American Women Martyrs 
Tuesday, March 7 
Called to Respond: The Jesuits and Co-Workers Martyred at the University of Central America 
All at 7:00 p.m. Stapleton Lounge, Le Mans Hall 
FREE AND OPEN TO TIIE PUBLIC FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: 219-284-4636 
Saint M:sCollegg 
NOTRE DAME • INDIANA 
Drug bill faces stiff resistance in House 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

It will probably take five years for intensified U.S. efforts against Colombian narr.otics traffickers to suc­ceed, the Clinton adminis­tration's top anti­drug offi­cial told Congress 
o n Tuesday. 
G e n . B a r r y McCaffrey, director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy, offered the assessment as he and other administration officials defended President Clinton's proposed $1.6 bil­lion plan to fight coca pro­ducers and their hP-avily armed guerrilla allies in the South American country and its neighbors. 
Though some of the money would be for contin­ued anti-drug efforts in nearby Bolivia and Peru the bulk of it would go t~ Colombia. which U.S. offi­cials say is by far the world's leading cocaine pro­ducer. 
So far, despite support by House Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-111.. Clinton's plan has nm into significant sk~~ticism in Congress. Cnt1cs say they fear the proposal could lead the United States into another open-ended. Vietnam-like 


brought up before the House today. it wouldn't pass the House," Callahan said. 
Rep. Nancy Pelosi of California. the subcommit­te~ •s ranking Democrat. said she opposed the cur­rent plan and warned that its approval would mean "a five to 10-year commitment whi~h will cost U.S. taxpay­ers m excess of $5 billion." 
Colombian government efforts to combat coca gro_wers and the 25,000 leftist rebels and right-wing paramilitary groups who protect them have had little success recentlv. 
The $1.6 billion Clinton wants, to be spent this year and next, would be used to provide Colombia with 63 ~elic~pters and for training, rntelhgence assistance and oth~r aid to the country's military. It also includes money to entice Colombian coca farmers to produce other crops and to buttress the country's judicial sys­tem. 
With some lawmakers warning that the proposal could result in American 
troops  being  killed,  
McCaffrey  said  only  
Colombian  forces  would  

c.arry out military opera­t10ns. Currently. there arc up to 200 American military personnel in Colombia. a number that varies daily, McCaffrey said. 
"There is no thinking at ~II. zero._ for U.S. military interventwn in Colombia." he said. 
Abo u l 


90 per-

intervention, "{f the [ drug war] bill 
r,ont of

and that the 
were to be brought up 
t h o

m o n e y 
before the House today, it cocaine
would be better spent wouldn't pass the used in 
t h e

trying to House." 
United

control the States is
demand 
Sonny Callahan grown in
coming from 
Colombia

Amerir.an U.S. Representative 
drug users. 
"I person­ally think we have to think of it as a five-vear effort " Mccaffrey told·members ~f the House Appropriations Committee's subcommittee that oversees foreign aid. By then. he said he believed there would be "substantial reductions of drug produc­tion." 
Subcommittee Chairman Sonny Callahan. R-Ala.. said that while he supports the ~d~inistration proposal, it is in serious trouble in Congress because of unan­swered questions about long-term strategy and other concerns. 
"If the bill were to be or flows 

through the country. McCaffrey said. ~nd while cora production Ill Peru and Bolivia has dropped in recent years, it has grown in Colombia from 230 metric tons in 1995 to 520 last year, he said. 
Clinton's proposal is part of a spending request ho has made to Congress for the current fiscal year that has grown to $5.2 billion. 
About half the total is for 
U.S. operations in Kosovo and the Balkans. while much of the rest is aid for American victims of last September's Hurricane Floyd and other disasters and for international debt forgiveness. 

page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, March 1, 2000 
IRELAND 

Divorce rate rising in predoDlinantly Catholic Ireland 
Church's network of marriage fused reality. A Catholic, he sep­"The institution is probably in But regular Catholic churrhgo­
Associated Press 

guidance centers in Ireland. arated from his wife two better shape today to Lhe extent ers like O'Reilly remain con­.. We don't say divorce is decades ago and travels interna­il's more honest. When I was scious of their divorree status.
DUBLIN 
against church teaching. We tionallv with his one-time scrre­growing up, an awful lot of mar­She speaks quietly so that a
Three years after divorce 
never say to a couple that they tary ai1d longtime partner, Celia riages were absolute shams. group of elderly women nearbybecame legal in this traditionally have to stay together, or that. Larkin. lie has dismissed sug­with women in particular ran't hear.
Roman Catholic nation. Maura yes. it's right to split. But I'd be gestions that he divorce and trapped with violent husbands. "They look like 'no' voters,"O'Reilly has found that brnaking in favor of honesty in personal remarry. That's changing." she says."! had a friend who up lrish-slyle is not so hard to relationshl.ps. and banning "Living together has berome O'Heilly went through that said after the divorce, Tm notdo. 
divorce never prevented separa­very socially acceptablo in urban ordeal. In 1979. she married a talking to her -she's cxcorn­"Hero's all my divorces, under tions or second unions." Early Ireland,'; says the Hew. Gordon man who abused her physically municat1~d!' But she was joking,D." the 42-year-old O'Reilly says, says. Linnev, Dublin archdeacon of and emotionally and had a I think. and mostly people acreptpointing in her Rolodex. to the More than 8,000 people -the A;glican Church of Ireland. string of girlfriends. Her 1989 your situation for what it is." 
names of a dozen people ­

about two-thirds of them women Linney's denomination, a tiny separation left her raising four Making peace with her r,hurrhincluding her own fiance -who -filed for divorce from 1997 to minority in Ireland, nover called children alone. was less straightforward. 
she has helped guide through 1999 in Ireland, court records divorce or remarriage a sin. But Still, she never considered O'Heilly felt uneasy about whatDublin's busy family law courts show. The in defer­divorce until her estranged hus­others would think if she two vears after her own divorce. 
number is far ence to the band started harassing her and received Communion. or"f ·was opposed to divorce for fewer than "I was opposed to divorce for country's her new partner, a retired Irish whether the priest might pub­mucb of my life, on religious had been pre­much ofmy l~fe. on religious long-dorni­army officer who also was sepa­licly refuse her. 
grnunds. lt takes a decade in a dicted. n a n t rated and had custody of his two So she went and talked to him.
humiliating, abusive rdationship grounds. It takes a decade
That's part­Catholic children, The rp,sponsP renewed her faith. 
to wear that faith away." says in a humiliating, abusive, 
Iv berause values. "I thought a divorcH would get "lie was very understanding,"O'Heilly. a formPr legal secre­l°i·ish law relationship to wear that Anglicans rid of him for good," she says of' she says. "He told me, 'Maura. 
tary. 

requires w h o her ex-husband. "J wanted what I'm going to say isn't for
Divorce. which became legal faith away."
divorcing obtained something to say he's really everyone, but it's for you. You'rein Ireland after rereiving only a couples Lo divorces in gone -it's legal. But when in a loving, supportive relation­razor-thin majority in a 1995 demonstrate Maura O'Reilly Britain you've kids together it's never ship and that's good -so don'treferendum. looked unlikely to they have rarely really over." stay away from the altar.'" 
former legal secretary 
gain widespread accf'ptanre. 

lived apart were per-With her background as a O'Heilly also appreciates herBut since the law took effect for at least mitted to legal secretary, O'Reilly learned new love, Dave Ward. She gush­Feb. 27. 1997. the issue has four years. !\.pplicants usually remarry in Irish services until enough about filling in the right es about how gentle and funnycaused barely a ripple in a sod­first negotiate a separation after the 1995 referendum. forms to become the home­he is. about the engagement ring 
ely that, despite its majority 
agreement -for decades the Linney says he condur.ted only grown divorce adviser in her flashing on her finger, about the adherence to Catholicism, has a only legal recourse available to one marriage involving a north Dublin neighborhood. new car and deposit he's provid­pragmatic streak longer than estranged couples. divorcee in the first four decades People have sought her advice, ed for her new suburban homeDublin's River Liffey. 
As a result, it is common for of his ministry, but has per­particularly on how she man­-and about their plans not to"We live in the real world. We couples to live together outside formed about one a year since aged to process her court papers marry and share that home for
know some couples won't 
marriage. particularly in the 1995. for $4. several years yet. 
resolve their difficulties, and cosmopolitan capital. Last year, "Whether or not the govern­"There was a time in my life "It's not a case of once bitten.
that maybe it's the right thing some 30 percent of births in ment had introduced divorce when I needed help desperately twice shy, really," she says.
that they should break up," says Dublin occurred out of wedlock. legislation here, the reality of and got it, and now I'm glad to "We've agreed to wait 'ti! the
Liz Early, a counselor for 
Ireland's prime minister, marriage breakdown was there be in a position to return the children are grown. so we can
Accord, the Roman Catholic 
Bertie Ahern, reflects this con-for everybody to see," he says. favor," she says. have our nest to ourselves." 

If you are an undergraduate, support may be available for you to improve your skills in: 

CCilnfum.®§® 
IHI®Jhrr®w 

JF@Il°Uilll~®§® IR5Jlll§§Il@J.IIIl 
The University wants to encourage study of those languages which are not heavily-subscribed here on campus. So if you are studying one of the above-mentioned languages, you may be able to get support for additional study in a summer program of your choice either in the United States or abroad. 
Application deadline: Friday, March 10 
Applications and further information is available from the Office of the Assistant Provost for International Studies (Security Building 200). Or one can call 1-5203 and have the application sent to their local address. 
Wednesday, March I, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
AmeriCorps head defends request 
FBI: Internet attack 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Amid quPstions about whr,thcr AmcriCorps has right11d its linancial ship, thf' hr;id of thr• govnnmrmt-spon­sorrd public servke program 
dcl'cndrd bPforr l:tw­makrrs n. rcq u nst for an almost 25 pPrcPn l bud­grl in(Tf'USf'. 
"Wr arr making i\ml'riCorps 
strongi>r, 
"We are making 
AmeriCorps stronger, more vital. and more e.ffective. " 
Harris Wofford chief executive officer of the 
m o r c v ita I Corporation for National Service 
cial offir.er

and morP f'ffrrtiv0," llarris \,\'offord. chicf cxPr.u­tiw ol'nc·cr of thP Corporation for National Service, said Tucsday at a hParing of the 
llousP Appropriations sub­
romrnitt<w on the Veterans Affairs. !IUD and inrlepPndfmt agcnciPs. 
"Young pPoplP arr being rha1!11ng('d Lo tn,kr pt>rsonal 
responsibility for the nef'ds of their community," Wofford said. 
AmeriCorps is essentially an at-home version of the Pear.e Corps. 
Asked by Kep. James Walsh. B-N.Y.. the subr,ommittee rhairman. what is being done 
to correct manage­ment prob­lems found last Vl1Ur bv the General Accounting Of'ficf'. Wofford said a nnw chief finan­

has been hired, better computer sys­tf'ms bought and businr,ss operations tightened. 
Ile is requesting $538.7 mil­lion for the fiscal year starting Oct. 1, an increase of $100 million -about 23 pHrcent ­over the fiscal 2000 appropri­ation. 
Walsh told Wofford that 
sAems too large. "I don't 
motive still unknown 
know if we will be able to meet that request," Walsh said. 
The average length of AmeriCorps service is one year, or 1,700 work hours. for which a participant rnceives an $8,730 living allowance, a $4,725 educational award and a health insurance policy worth about $1.000. 
After five years. 1 S0,000 wrnplr. havr. takfrn part in AmcriCorps, each spending a year building houses for the poor. tf'aching children to read, working with police on dnmAstic violencP. and gang intorvrrntion. Participants work with nonprofit groups in areas such as f'clucation. lrnalth and basir, needs, the environment and public safe­ly. 
AmeriCorps is one of sever­al programs that the White !louse considers part or Clinton's presidential legacy. This year's class has 40.000 participants, the largest num­ber ever. 
Believe 
The Office of the Student Body President Is Now Accepting Applications For the 2000-2001 Academic Year. 
If You Are Interested In Joining Student Government, Meeting New People, and Serving the Notre Dame Community...Please Pick up an Application From the Student Government Office Located On the Second Floor ofLaFortune. 
*Applications Are Due Wednesday, March 8th. 

Studyin Spain & Cuba 
The Centerfor Cross~Cultural Study 

Seville, Spain 
• Semester, Academic Year, January, & Summer tem1s • • Courses at all levels taught in Spanish • Small classes • College credit • • Financial aid • Homestays • Internships • Field trips • email • 
Havana, Cuba 
• Winter & Summer tenm: 3 or 6 weeks, 4 or 8 credits; 
courses in English or Spanish • • Fall Semester: up to 16 credits at Universidad de la Habana • 

Call for catalog and free video 
1-800-377-2621 
college@cccs.com http://www.cccs.com 


investigators have been ham­pered because vandals sought to cover their digital trail falsi­fying information within the flood of data that overwhelmed Yahoo!, eBay and other major Internet sites about three weeks ago. The FBI's own Web site was overwhelmed for about throe hours in a similar attar,k on Feb. 18. 
The bureau is frustratPd that some computers used in the attacks failed to adPquately record useful details, and some of the spurious data that disruptPd service at the Web sites apparently was routed through computers overseas. 
"Ber.ausP parts of thf' evi­dentiary trail have led over­seas, we are working through our legal attarhes in many U.S. embassies abroad to work with foreign conn terparts." Vatis said. "Despite all these chal­lenges, I remain optimistic that the hard work of ... that we will in the end prove to be sur­cessful." 
Panels from the Ilouse and Senate Judiciarv committees organized the· hearing to determine what changes, if any, are needed to existing crime laws. 
Holder and other federal authorities have urged Congress, for example, to reduce the $5,000 minimum in damages that victim compa­nies must suffer before attack­ers can be prosecuted under federal computer r.rime laws. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTO;\l 
Senior law enforcement offi­cials assured Congress on Tuesday "we are making progress" despite serious chal­lenges investigating the sensa­tional attacks weeks ago against some of the lntP.rm1t's most popular Web sites. 
Michael Vatis, head ol' the FBI's l\'ational Infrastrurture Protection Center. said federal agents are following "hun­dreds of leads," and he was optimistic the case will be solved. "We conti.nuf' to make good progress," he said. 
But there were important questions that Vatis candidly said he couldn't answer, sug­gesting no arrest was close. The FRI still has no idoa of the motive fur the Internet attacks or whether one group or sev­eral groups were responsible. 
"l think it's too early to tell," Vatis told a joint congressional panel. He said FBI agents were "looking at possible linkages between all the investigations." and responded to one lawmak­er that it was unlikely foreign governments were involved. 
Deputy U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder, who also testified. assured lawmakers that "we are making progress" and repeated his earlier pledge to "prosecute these people to the fullest extent that we can." 
Vatis acknowledged that 


2000 BIGEASTMen's Basketball Tournament March 8 -11 Madison Square Garden Student Tournament packages on sale Feb. 29 -March 3 Gate 1 Ticket Windows $40 student patkage 
Men~ Basketball vs. Syracuse March 1 9."00poi Gate 11 will open at 7:30pm N11tion11ll.Y televised on ESPN Green M.0.8. shirts are a must Wear 'em!!ll!ll'I! 

page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, March I, 2000 


THE NAKED TRUTH ABOUT STUDENT UNION BOARD 
The Student Union Board is now accepting applications for all non-executive positions on the 2000-200 I board. Applications can be picked up outside of the SUB Office in 20 I Lafortune, and must be returned no later than Monday, March 6. 
SUB DEPARTMENTS 
the executive council 
underneath it all is the executive council. comprised of the 
EXPOSED 
directors of each sub department and the board manager; this crazy group covers all the essentials -including steering sub 
the programming department
toward its vision of providing for the notre dame community. sub programmers are the brains behind this whole project.
the exec board bares it all for the sake of the masses. ( don't tell the other departments this!) when programmers put on their thinking caps, watch out -magic happens! they plan all the controlling department of the cool sub events, like concerts, lectures, festivals, and the department money, money, money!! the wise sub movies. (i told you they were smart!) controllers eat, sleep and breathe
of operations 

finance. they keep our budget out of
at the center of sub is the operations the department of creativitythe red, and a tight grip on the purse
department. keeping the office run­this wild and wacky group puts the flair in sub. 
strings. the controllers are the real
ning smoothly is their forte. they are they draw the crowds in with their creative 
professionals of sub... but don't worry, 
sub's own cheerleaders, keeping advertising and eye-catching gimmicks. our 
they sometimes do loosen their ties 
morale and spirits high ( and, yes, they graphic designers achieve the feat of promoting
and get crazy with the rest of us!
can do a mean toetouch.) 
all of sub's events. 

THE BARE FACTS ON 
services 

did someone say there's no such thing as a
COMMITTEES 
free lunch? well, they had better talk to sub's 
services commission! how about free coffee,
movies 

free laundry. free massages, and other grab your microwave popcorn and 56oz diet coke! the big screen is 
stuff...free!?!?! here! blockbuster hits such as "star wars: the phantom menace," and 
ideas & 

"austin powers" provide guaranteed excitement every weekend. 
campus entertainment issues 
looking for a little entertainment? search no further. are you just dying 
concerts 

this crazy commission sponsors loft shows featuring to see and talk sub's concerts committee special events up and coming bands. past performers include the with headlinethe special events commission putsbrings big name bands right drover-:;, smoking popes, archers of loaf, and push personalities? well.
on nutty events ranging from pumpkinhere to campus. famous down and turn. campus entertainment also spices up sleep tonight painting to comedians to other funentertainers such as the notre dame thursdays with acousticafe! and don't knowing that thisstuff pertinent to the time of year. theybarenaked ladies (see, fits forget nazz in the spring! is the mission ofbring all kinds of fun to notre dame.
right in with the theme!), toad the ideas and 
the wet sprocket, indigo girls, 
collegiate jazz festival 
issues committee!

beck, rusted root third eye our cjf committee puts on this nationally
sophomore they feature bigblind, cowboy mouth, and recognized event which allows student
literary festival names such as
others have headlined in musicians from various universities to
snuggle up with a good book james earl Jones,recent years. 
have their performances evaluated by
and get ready for this annual ben & jerry, distinguished jazz professionals. the
celebration of playwrights, elizabeth dole,antostal notre dame community grooves to the
poets, and novelists! the slf robert kennedy, jr.,
this wild and wacky committee sweet sounds of both the students and
committee brings prominent billy joel and newt organizes antostal (the blowout the big name judges.
authors, such as tom clancy. gingrich. 
spree of activities before spring finals kurt vonnegut, edward albee, 
set in). fun stuff like bouncy boxing, cultural arts 
and tennessee williams to ever dreamed of being a chinese acrobat? ok, neither have I but this stuffbig whee! races, jousting, and jello pits share their works through is cool! cultural arts promotes awareness of these fun kinds of things,
are just some of the crazy events readings and workshops at 
including music, literature, drama and dance. they also sponsor trips to
that make this the "best college notre dame. read on! 
see plays in chicago, on-campus touring groups, and more!
spring festival" in the country! 

631.7757 nd.edu/~sub 
Wednesday, March I, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 

Camry, Accord top list 
Visit The Observer Online. 
of most stolen U.S. cars
http://obse:rver.nd;edu 
the street. 
Associated Press 
Toyota and Honda don't take 

Please Join Us for 
A VIGIL OF HOPE 
at the Grotto for 
Conor Murphy 
Please come join us in a vigil ofhope for the healing and speedy return ofour good friend Conor Murphy, a sophomore in Zahm Hall who was this week diagnosed with leukemia. Stop by the ·Grotto today to light a candle and add to the ongoing prayer for healing. Also, please contribute to a journal ofencouragement which ·will be there and which will be sent to him. The vigil will culmi­nate in a liturgy at the Grotto at 6 p.m. today, Wednesday, March 1st, 
FORTHELOVEOFOURBROTHER ANDTHESAKEOFUSALL PLEASE COME! 

Announcing the Year 2000 Annual A wards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the year 2000 annual competition for travel in support of summer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,500, and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pursue research or a formal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year of Italian language. The course work will normally be in Italian; will involve the study of Italian language, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University of Notre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department of Romance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
1 )  an  explanation  of  how  the  proposed  research  or  foreign  study  
will  enhance  their  degree  program  at  Notre  Dame  
2)  a  personal  statement  indicating  their  background,  interests,  and  
long-term  goals  
3)  a  description  of  the  research  project  or  the  program  they  intend  
to  follow  
4)  a  budget  indicating  the  costs  involved  
5)  the  names  of  two  references.  

Application Deadline: Friday, March 10th, 2000 Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship Program in Italian Studies 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall University of Notre Dame 
any pride in their rankings,
DETROIT saying it's more a reflection ofTest driven a Toyota Camry 

how the study measures car or Honda Accord lately? 
theft. CCC's ranking is basedAmerica's car thieves have, only on stolen vehicles that
and they're big fans. 
were never recovered or wereThose two models dominate stripped to the point that theythe most-stolen vehicle list for were a total loss. It does not1999, with 19 of the top 25 
include temporary "joy ride"spots, as they have in years 
thefts.
past. The 1989 Toyota Camry "The study is skewed for carskept its ranking as the most­
that last a long time," said
stolen vchide for the third year 
Toyota spokesman John
in a row, fol-McCandless. "It means our carslowed by the Most are in high demand, but it also
'90, '91 and 
frequently means that our units in opera­'88 Camrvs. 
tion keep on growing every
The only stolen cars 

year."
other vehicle Art Garner, a spokesman forto break into 
the top 10 • Toyota Camry Honda, said the Accord would be in the middle of the pack if
was the . Honda Accord 
the rankings were weighted to1997 Ford F­
. Ford F-150 

show the proportion of stolen 
150 4x2 cars to total sales of that
pickup . Chevy C1500 model. He also said the compa­
part Of a . Acura Legend 
ny expected its theft rate to
growing 
decline thanks to a systemappetite for 
installed on all Accords frompickups among vehicle poach­
ers. 
the 1998 model year on. The But owners of all makes and 
system keeps the car from models have something to 
starting unless it senses a com­cheer: Cases of major vehicle puter chip embedded on the 
car's keys.
theft dropped 15 percent last yAar, according to data from But Garner and McCandless CCC Information Services Inc., 
said whatever steps automak­which tracks trends in theft 
ers take to reduce theft, thieves and other vehicle damage will find a way around them claims for the insurance indus­with some practice and time. try. "There's a lot more technolo­
CCC spokeswoman Jeanene gy in a 2000 Camry than thrre O'Brien said the drop is part of was 10 years ago, but if they a trend toward fewer thefts do the study 10 years from 
that began in 1995, and can be now, the Camry will still be on 
attributed to a booming U,S. the list," McCandless said. economy, where fewer people The National Insurance are driven to auto theft as a Crime Bureau_ in October 
vocation. reported that Accords and 
The CCC's annual list, to be Camrvs were also the most released Wednesday, counted stolen" vehirle nationwide in 14 different models of Honda 1998. The burr.au, which also Accords among the top 25 tracks thefts for insurance vehicles. companies, combines theft 
Why do sedate family sedans reports for all years of a partic­like the Camrv and Accord ular make and model. CCC pepper the top of the list? The ranks the cars annually by simple answer is that there's a make, model and option great demand for their spare gro11ps. parts: They have been top-sell­Other vehicles in the top 25 ers for years and can be driven included the 1994 Chevrolet for hundreds of thousands of Cl 500 .4x2 pickup. ranked miles. The Camry and Accord 11th: the '91 Acura Legend. tend to change little from year ranked 13th; the '95 Ford to year, making more parts Mustang, ranked 14th: the '89 interchangeable between Chevrolet Caprice. ranked model years. 18th; and the '95 Dodge Neon. 
And the Camry and Acrnrd ranked 22nd. models hPld their value better 
The CCC said pir.kup truck than their competitors, mean­thefts were up 52 percent,ing fewer ended up in junk­
while thefts of cars and SCVs yards and more wne still on 
fell. 
6lfae ~tl~\set 
In 
·-i, 
en 

.Art 'lltst~ """ Crtttctsm 
= ~ 

nwDepartm~t ofArt, Art History and Design
-= C 

is pleasrd to announce its annual competition for the Riley Pri~e in Art Hi5tocy & Cdtic~m. 
CV 
2' 

Current Notre D,a,n.;i ul"\dergradu;, te a.1\d
C, 

gradu.ate studeflts are invited to submit essays en 
on any topic in the l-.i5tO\')' of an or art criticism 
-

= 
for considc:rati-on in the cor:ipetition, E5sar:1·­
must deal with the visual a;-t:s. The;· may h"av':
'C 

been wnttlll'n in conjun.;:tkn with a course taken
cc 

2.t t..~ UnJvenity, but need not have been.
I 
'C 

' 
Rules govemtng thol competition a:e :~ v ail able
0 

I ... = '-... 
in th• Art ~-partm,mt Offic~. Two c:opi.r:5 of
j = 
the suhrnaion .mu$t be delivered to t~e Att
a,; 

Departme-nt Offic:e, 13'2 O'Shaughru~ssy Hall,
E 

by 3:00 PM, fi:id.ay, Mauch 31, tc:, be eUgi\::>J.~. A 
sttl<:ient ~ o;nly ,v.bmi' ON'E ~mti-y.
~ 
-
t"'1 
a. 
Q) 
Q 

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Oamc. IN 46556 024 ~omh Dining Hall, Norre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Michelle Krupa 

MA.'-:AGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryau  David Rogero  
AssT, MANAGING EDITOR  
Lama Perclle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VJEWl'OINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen S1•0RTS EDITOR, Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: l\lichad Vanegas SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: :--loreen Gillespie PHOTO ED!TOII: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANA.GEIi: Bryan Lun 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Brcr Huelat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushto 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPfllQ, EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL [NFO.............631-7471 FAX................... ·•··••·············· ...............631-6927 ADvums1NG ..................................... 6.31-6900/8840 
obscrver@darwin.cc. nd.cdu EmTOR IN CHIEF...................................63 l-4542 MANAGING EmrnR/AssT. ME....................631-454 I BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOJNT.................................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoint. J@nd.edu S!'ORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MA.Rv's ............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS. ..............631-883'} 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http:llab,erver.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports. features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for

weather for up-to-1he 
weekly student reviews

minure forecasts 
online features for spe­

advertise for policies 
cial campus coverage 

and rares ofprim ads 
about The Observer

archives ro search for 
to meet rhe editors and

articles published after 
staff

August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independenr. daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of 1he Universicy of Notre Dame <lu Lac and Saint Mary's College. E<lirorial content, including advercisemencs, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent che opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor. Assistant Managing Editor and deparrmenr editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors and nor necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Lerrers ro the Editor must be signed and must include comacr information. 
Qum,ons regarding Ob.<eroer pn/iries should be d;re,t­ed to Ediror in ChiefMichelle Krupa. 

OBSERVER 

"He's got a nice booty, a six pack, blond hair, blue-eyes. Oh' And he's tan from surfing." That is the ideal boy among the girls with whom I have grown up. 
Yet my relatives 

tell me. "Don't Jennifer Guintu marry an American (mean­ing Caucasian) 
What's Your
because you'll only 

Shade?
end up in divorce." 

But there are very few Filipinos and minorities in Newbury Park, Calif. And when I gather with other Filipinos, I am considered "white washed" because of where I live and the way I dress and talk. 
However, when I am around Caucasian boys. I feel unattractive because I look different. So basically. I am stuck. 
Those are the feelings of the confused adolescent I used to be. At times I would wonder if I was not trying hard enough to suppress my Filipino her­itage in order to seem more normal and, therefore. more attractive. At other times I would wonder if I was Filipino enough to be accepted by my "own kind." 
Dating men of other races has helped me to clear up my confusion on interra­cial dating. I had always considered interracial dating a good thing because it seemed natural to me -my mother is half-Italian, half-Filipino and my sib­lings and cousins prefer to date Caucasians. 
But only rncently through my experi­ences have I developed a more in-depth opinion on this issue: While hr,ritage adds to a persnn and his or her charac­ter, it does not make the person. 
Race or ethnicity can add to a rela­tionship, but it does not make the rela­tionship. Rather, personality and char­acter is what should draw two people together. Racial difTerences should not limit a person from rlisrovrring a boau­tiful and compatible companion. 
While my family has tended to have a bias towards same-race dating, it has been accepting of interracial dating with Caucasians. 
My aunt has been married to an Irish man for more than 20 years. Looking at their relationship, I find it encouraging because my aunt does not suppress her Filipino upbringing to be more compati­ble with her husband. 
Rather, my uncle embraces the Filipino culture and attempts to learn as much as he can about his wife's her­itage. My uncle, out of love. has stepped outside his "comfort zone" and in return my family has accepted him. 
However. family can often add ten­sion to an interracial relationship. I remember my relatives' reaction to my first boyfriend, who was Persian. 
"Be careful, they don't treat women right." "He might seem nice now, but just be careful." 
Much of this ignorance came from the media, but it was difficult bringing him into the family. 1 became a threat to hi.s family, too. llis father would threaten to stop paying his college tuition if he continued to see me. 
Apparently his father felt that "Filipinos are disgraceful Christians who mistreat Muslims." 
I had never felt so enraged and so misunderstood. Rather than letting the anger get the better of me, though, I used it in a positive manner. 
During that relationship, and during subsequent relationships, I shared Filipino customs, traditions and foods with those I dated. In the process. I learned more about who I am and became prouder of my heritage. 
In return, it has been just as impor­tant to learn about my partners' her­itage. Personally, I have always had an affinity towards cultural awareness and learning about new people and tradi­tions. 
Learning about a partner's heritage 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 

Wednesday, March 1, 2000 

helps me to understand him better as a person. Moreover, my family and friends learn to be more understanding and accepting. 
By advocating interracial relation­ships, I am also advocating cultural awareness. Yet as I stated earlier, her­itage does not make a person; it adds to his or her character. 
Geographic upbringing and the demo­graphics of your environment also are strong influences on one's personality and interests. My sister considers her­self more compatible with a Caucasian (blond hair, blue-eyed) man from the suburbs than she does with a Filipino who grew up in the city. When looking at my sister's relationship, I have observed that she is with her boyfriend not because of his race but because of their common interests -interests that have been influenced by their geo­graphic upbringing. 
"Love is colorblind." 
I'm sure you've heard that before, but have you really thought about that statement? Sometimes I think we cre­ate boundaries and set limits on love. While love itsell' is colorblind. the love between two people can be colorful. 
Sharing cultural differnnces and embracing diversity makes relation­ships richer. It can also add to the excitement of dating. However, it is easy to assume things about people based on their appearances. 
Setting mental boundaries prevents me (or anyone) from a wonderful and even life-changing encounter. I find it more fulfilling getting to know people rather than avoiding race. 
Jennifer Guintu is a student in the First Year ofStudies. The Office of Multicultural Student Affairs column appears every other Wednesday. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Obsen•er. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"I'll say this about one of us living in an all-white suburb. Crabgrass isn't our biggest problem. " 
Dick Gregory 
civil rights activist 
VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, March 1, 2000 
Be wary of horrible 
hospital care 
Call me somewhat biased in opinion, but my B-year-old grandmother, Vlargurritr McFarley, seems to me a thor­oughly fair individual. In the same breath (or 
half-hour-Jason McFarley long story), 
sht\ r.an recite for The Bottom you all line 
that's right with tlrn 
world and, on occasion, some ol'whal's wrong with it. 
Go ahead, ask her how her day was; and of tlw past 24 hours she'll rccotml the good, the had ... 
The ugly? Yeah, you know, the people and r.ircumstancPs that add morn gray to her already-silw-\r crown -those things ·on her "list." 
Oh. I've heard all sorts of gripes, but lately at the top or Grandmother's list am two uglies: nurses and hospitals ­not all or them but indeed a very "unpretty" few. Of course, Grandmother hasn't sworn off medical trnatment altogether, it's just that going to get it makes her think twice now. 
Me too. Especially if' those in eharg(i of adminstering rnre fall far short of fulfilling their duties. .lust so wn· re on the s-arnn page. we're talking nrg_li­gence here. 
I told you what a judicious woman my grandmother is. She is not one to cry foul if that is not the case. And it is the casn. 
First, some background: Last .lanuarv. Grandmother under­went d~uble bypass surgery at Hospital X. where she rnmained in recovery for about two weeks. 
Now on to Point No. 1: While 
in rncovery, Grandmother was 
completely reliant on Hospital 
X's nursing staff. On one occa­
sion, she remembers having to 
use the restroom and buzzing 
for a nurse to help her do so. 
Afwr more than 45 minutes 
of unanswered signaling. 
Grandmother's bladder yielded 
to f'orres of' nature. With still 
no rnsponse from any nurse. 
slw phonrd my grandfather. 
who subseqtwntly called the 
hospital to tell someone to 
clwck on his soaked and 
undf!rstandably upset spouse. 
The buzzer. the hospital staff round. was dPf'ectiwi. You think'? 
Point '.'Jo. 2: l lospital x·s poli­('Y is to assign patients a "i1urse for thn day." That is. a singlP mirs11 who.attends to a patir,nt f'nr llw duration of orrn 
day. 
On one morning in particu­lar, a IlltrS!' walkl'd into Crnndmoth11r's room and inf'nrnlf'rl lwr that she'd bc her nurse fur thn day. 
That was thr Inst time 
Grandmothrr saw the woman. 
Fact is. it was the last timr shn 
saw anv nursP until well aftPr 
lunch tlnw. when a difflwPnt 
woman ra11w into lwr room. 
Bv tlwn. it \\'as l10urs past 
t.lw.sclwdulcd time !'or my 
grandmotlwr to takP hc1r pro­
scribed medication. And in the 
span bPtWPPll not gptting lwr 
pills and finally laking thl'm, Grandmother remembers feel­ing very ill. 
Wait, there's more. 
Point No. 3: another day, another nurse. This time my grandmother needed assis­tance bathing herself. Having had heart surgery just days before, her arm movement was restrictPd, to say the least. 
She asked a nurse to help her wash her back and under­arms. The nurse consentrd to the back washing, but said Grandmother would be on her own in washing under her 
arms. 

Grandmother appealed to her. I-low could she rf'ach to wash beneath her arms? Or. if she could, would she suffer somn very painful conse­quences? 
After listening to her, the nurse apparently decided Grandmother's bathing was finished. She flung the wash cloth at the woman in the tub and walked angrily out of the room. 
There you have it. Three sce­narios, three inexplicable and wholly unnecessary outcomes. 
But I propose another sce­nario. One day, months after her stay at the hospital, my grandmother sees a picture of Ilospital X's president in the local newspaper. He and a patient are mugging for the camera while a photo caption just below praises Hospital X's services to the community. 
Yet realizing that she got the shaft from Hospital X's staff, my grandmother asks to speak to the president. She is denied, but as a consolation she can talk to a representative from the president's office. 
Grandmother is not satisfied with this option and for the next year she sends corn~spon­dence and phones Hospital X to set up an appointment with Mr. President. She is denied time and again. 
The truth of the matter is, this is how the events really happened. It's a shame, too, because all Grandmother wanted to do was tell the Big Cheese about her experiences at the hospital. 
She didn't want to get involved in a lawsuit. She didn't want any of the nurses in question to lose their jobs. She just wanted to tell her storv. Given the circumstances or h~r hospital visit. the very least the Big Cheese could offor lwr is his ear. 
Bottom line herr: well. that's hard to say. I could tell you that everyone deserves the chance lo tell l1is or her story. Or I could warn you to be a cautious when it comes to investing your trust in medical rarn provirlers. 
lnst('ad. I'll borrow a bit from Jerry Springer: Until next timr. taker.arr ofvoursPlves ­and my grandmother. 
Jason ivfrParley is a student in the First Year ofStudies. llis column appears eiwry other TVednesday. 
The oieu,s expre.c;sed in this column are those uf lhP author ond no/ TH'r·essarily those of 
The 0/J~erl'er. 
OBSERVER page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Nancy Fallon's life was a gift 
I first met Nancy Fallon in 1989 when she came to talk to me about free-lance writing for Courier. I knew instantly that she was someone I wanted to work with -someone I couldn't wait to work with. Shn was a quiet, even unas­suming woman when you first met her, 
but in the course of our first meet­ing I could tell she possessed tremendous intelligence and insight. 1 couldn't believe how fortunate we were that Nancy had come through our doors. 
During the seven vears we worked together, Nancy wrote numerous articles for Courier that were all well­received. 
Eventually, as her children grew older and were in school foll time, she began to work on other pro­jects for the College. She was widely respected by the extended College communi­ty, who knew her name even if they had not personally met her. Throughout our professional rela­tionship, I was impressed by how devoted Nancy was both to her family and to the delicate juggling of caring for them and building her career., 
When Nancy called me three years ago to tell me that Marilou Eldred had asked her to serve as editor of Courier. I was elated. I knew that she would put the soul back into the magazine that had been missing it for several years. 
Thf! magazine truly soared under her leader­ship. She formed a strong creative partnership with art director Angela Michielutti, and the magazine never read or looked better than it 
did under their collaboration. As an edi­
tor, Nancy showed not only vision but a meticulous attention to detail. I couldn't wait to see what her next issue would bring. 
I feel especially fortu­nate because, as much as I cherished Nancy as a colleague, she 
was also a dear friend. Throughout our 
relationship, our conversations flowed as easily 

as they did that first day we••---•••.J met. We would 
. l- talk about our  
• -1 ',  work, our chil­ 
., • ., , ' ..-,  dren, our pro­f' I .essiona aspira­ 
tions and our  
personal doubts.  
Through it all,  
Nancy was  
always a support­ 
ive, positive and  
overwhelmingly  
gracious friend.  
It's hard to imagine  
Saint Mary's or Courier  
without Nancy. It's even  
harder to imagine life  
without her. Her life was a  
gift to all of us who knew and  
loved her.  
Maureen Manier  
Former Editor  
Saint Mary's Courier  
February 29, 2000  

Screening for morals is foolhardy 
This is in response to Ms. Sheryl Miller's letter of Peb. 29, "Big families should not be mocked." I am sure I am not alone in taking mild offense at this article. 
Ms. Miller's initial response of support for Ms. Antkowiak is well-placed and welcome. Intolerance and yuppie snobbery are as com­mon on campus as Abercrombie and Fitch, and the belittling of Ms. Antkowiak and her family was entirely wrong-headed and anti-Catholic. 
Ms. Miller's gross over-generalization, howev­er, of this incident into what seems to be a con­demnation of a) those who do not primarily accept an image of "the gentler sex" as the ideal for women, and bl small families as un­Catholic or unholy. seems to me to be mistaken. 
As I am uncertain that I follow her reasoning, I cannot respond as I would like. I will focus instead on her desire for admission criteria bv which "good" applicants are Catholic, "or at · least not opposed to Catholic practices,'' and "bad" applicants arc othnwise. I believe that such a solution is foolhardy, as it will not accomplish what .\ts . .'vfiller !Jopes, namely, to identify people of strong moral character. 

Apparently, due to the nastiness exhibited by a fow women of Lewis 2-South. Ms. Miller would like us to lw more strict in admitting only good Catholics. Perhaps on the admissions application we could have a small question­naire. We could ask, !'or example, about Mass attfmdance. understanding of Churr.h doctrine. commitment to service, participation in youth groups in an aLtempt to Jetermine who has the appropriatP Catholic character. (Maybr, even a question nn family size would be in order ... ) 
This approach wo,d solv(i much. I'd be will­ing to v0nture that some of those "non-Catholic" women who taunted Laura would pass the questionnaire with flying colors. I'm sure every­one can think of a person who was, say, a model citizen and active in her youth group, who is shallow and petty and thoroughly un­Christian though she has all of the right creden­tials. 
And everyone can think of a quiet person who lives a humble, holy life but does not do all or the "right" things and would not pass the test. Effectively, a set of criteria which ask about actions and activities reveals little or nothing about the person's character. Holiness is a mat­ter of the heart. 
Moreover, such a limited questionnaire would eliminate those who are living good lives and are not Catholic. Two of my friends here are agnostic; another friend of mine is Muslim. My roommate is Episcopalian. These four people have contributed great things to my life and the University through involvement in various things~ athletics, social work, even playing guitar at Mass. I believe that my Notre Dame experience would be worse if they had been denied admission because or a Catholic filter. 
In fairness to ~s. Miller, she does acknowl­edge that non-Catholics arc A-OK as long as they are not opposed to Catholic practices. My responsr to this is that Notre Dame, through its policy of keeping herself around 85 percent Catholic and her rules and regulations that we have all come to know and eldest, already do(\S a fairly decent job of maintaining a Catholic character here. 
Perhaps the rules could be more stringm1t and more harshly cnforccd, but that is neither here nor there. The point is that selecting only ''true" Catholic applicants will not solve Notre Damr's alleged moral crisis; on Urn contrary, such a policy runs the risk or cxar,Prbating it. 
Mary Beth Willard 
Junior 
~-lcGlinn Hall 
February 29, 2000 


page 14 
Some changes 
I'd like to make 
Every plat'.B has some good and some bad. It romPs with the lPrritory. If' you have nice grass. you probably haw nice weeds. JI" you enjoy checsc­rnkr., you probably havo rat thighs. Just liko Bret Michar,ls told us, "Every Hose has its Thorns"; Notre Dame has some thorns too. 13ut l think we cll.n trim Scott Little thrm off and spend mor<' time smelling niw. 
.Ilerf' an~ some snggP:stions: I think the girl"s dorms just a little shouldn't be lockt•d up during the dav. EwrvonP knows bad stuff 0;1ly happens at night. Ewry onr.e in a whilfl WP. hear about bad gender relations. 'Nell. that might be due to the fact that the boys are lockt-'d out of' the girl's dorms. And in tl1P big schf'me of things. mfln am still basically the predators and we arc the ones to go out and hunt for girls. In the meantime I encourage all girls to rut through boys dorms on their way to class so \.VC can all get a good look al you. 
I would also like to propose something for the ROTC pcople. If they are going to look all too seri­ous in their fancy uniforms anyway, they might as well also veil out "Ilut, two. three, four" all the time when thPy am wearing their uniform. They would look a lot more professional. I also think that more pPoplr. would be interested in joining HOTC programs if they gave out weapons imrlir'r in the program. Then we could have a Notre Danw gun dub that would have parties when' crazy bald guys fin, but!Pts out ofthrir mouths. 
Yf?.t anolhf?r conventional desire I have is to have a shoelace storP on campus. Curnmtly them is only one IPngth and one style ofshoelace that can bc bought on campus at the bookstore: 45-inch Notre Oanw shoPlaces. There is a lot more out there. 
One rwat religious changr.: Drill a hole in Touchdown Jesus' mouth. and in thP winlPr we could blo\\' steam out of it to makP-it look like Im is breathing. 
College is often a time where a lot of us lose touch with our little kid inner selvrs. To remind us of the simple joys in life, I propose that w11 put in a roller coastP.r in North Quad and a jungle gym in front of South Dining Hall. The jungle gym would also solve the problem of people clogging up the area in and around the dining hall, because every­one would be out playing on it. 
Along those same lines, I think every Friday with nice weather should be "Hot-Air Ba!loon Friday." On Hot-Air Balloon Fridays. hot air balloons with big ND symbols on them would take off from the golf course. About 100 kids would get the chance everv Fridav. And the cost would be $10. We might as well have a recess time too. I know tech­nically anytime could be recess time now, but if we were required to do it, those study-aholics would be forced to get out.side and breathe fresh air instead of sucking on their smartbreath inhalers. 
Another idea that would bring us doser to our vouth would be a room about the size of Debartolo 101 and instead of walls it had giant Light Bright boards on its sides. And the floor would be two feet deep in light bright parts. That could even be a class, Light Bright Art Class. 
And what about sledding? That is a fun youthful activity. but there are virtually no sledding hills around here. So let's build a Mount ND. I'm sure there is some money lying around somewhere for something like that. We could put Mount ND right by one of the lakes, and in the summer we could put a giant water-slide.on the mountain that pours out into one ofthP lakf>s. 
A few more quick ideas are a "Maintenance mell the snow day," waterbeds in the dorms. another collegf' within thr University for clowns and a "kiss your favorite nun day." 
And my last idea for a change is for Pveryone on the Notre Dame staff to get a wax figure made out or them and then we will get a giant aquarium like the one at Sea World and put all the wax figures in it. Then lill lhe aquarium with clear gelatin, and watch the fun as all the figures end up in weird places. 
Student elections just happened, so if you are one of the studrnls with powPr and are reading this, I know l am not alomi in my views, so let's sue somP changes. LPt's make ND a nirvana 
The l'iews expressed in lhis column are those of tfw author and nol neregsarily those ofThe Observer. 

TV ANALYSIS 
For the past l'our weeks, tdevision watdwrs havP beP n blessed by pun', nPver-befon'•s11cn. quality (sometimes) tdevision. Things lrnppnned on our favoritt, shows that don't typically happrn. It was a spe­cial four \\eeks. in TV land. 
And here an~ llw landmarks: 
Maude Flanders dine! on "The Simpsons." "Cops" and "The X­Files" mergt\d into orw show (for only one episodP.). Somebody mar­ried a multi-millionaire on a show appropriatt\ly titled: "Who Wanl'i to Marry a Multi-Millionaire?" 
And it donsn't stop here. 
There was a homosexual kiss between two male gay characters on "Will and Grace." David Letterman returned from quintuple bypass surgery. Santana kicked evervone's behind al the Gra~my's. 
And perhaps in the most exciting two episodes in "ER's" long run as NBC's top show, something happened that changed the lives of two or the show's characters. This something brought in 39 million viewers. making it the most-watched show sincB the last episode of"Seinfeld." And what was this something? It was the stabbing or youthful doctors John Carter and Lucy Knight. Carter, who's been with the show since its inception, did not die. Knight, who is finishing up her sec­ond season on the medical drama, did. 
It certainly was riv­eting television, and unfortunately. it is tak­ing a hiatus. 
If you look at today's datP, you'll notice it's the lirst day of a new mrmth. lt's March, and that means that it's time for that pure trle­vision of last month to be lost in springtime, until it comes time for the television srason to end in May. 
Why'? Why is this so'? Why do television executives tease us with this stretch of' great TV. only to let us down with a long strntch of reruns, reruns and more rnruns" 
While it's prelty much a given that it's all done for money ­sweeps periods are when advertisers 

Wednesday, March 1, 2000 

reevaluaLn wherP they want to put tlwir morwy. basl'd 011 ratings and dnmographics and all that otlwr stuff tho normal television view(,r doesn't wally care about -why such cataclysmi('. events'! 
Now, I know we can't blame anyo1w for putting Lnlterman in thn hospital. and allowing him to rome back at thn h<1art of February swncps. And the Grammv's aw a traditional awards show. But tlw other sweeps ·..events" seem to be over-hypPd, super-dramat• ic injections of TV adrenaline that. while vinwcrs love it at th(\ moment or release onto the airwaves. falls !lat soon after. 
So come tomorrow, when everyone switches to WNDU-Ch. 16 to watch NBC's famed Must See TV. a hushed wave of disappointment will spread across not only this campus, but America. For we will see an old r,pisode of "Friends." We will see an old episode of "Frasier." We will see an old episode of"ER." {This is why thorn were 110 "Scenes from the next 'ER"' shown after last week's show, by the way). 
And to know the only reason this unfortunate shift in programming is that the calendar has shifted from February to March, I am at a loss for words. Though I do understand the basics of the economy behind com· mercial television, I am also a committed television viewer. 
So my plea, to the TV writers and producers who probably will never read this column, is: ForgPt sweeps. I know this will never become a reality. If only the 
energy put into giving us an hour of that disappointing "what could have been" episode of "Friends" was devoted to making the other Thursday night come­dy "Jesse" a more consistently funny sit· com. If' only Letterman could have saved a few bypasse.s for April. 
But, as I have said. this will not happen. Though .it would be a step in the right dirrc­tion of making televi­sion more viewer• l'riPndly and more enjoyable to watch. it will never happen. 
And that, perhaps, is the mosl unfortunate aspect of being a tele­vision-watcher. Things never go the way you want them to go. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not nece.,;sarily those of The Observer. 



Wednesday, March I , 2000 page I5 
BP: Everybody knows your name 
By JACQUELINE BROWDER 
/\..~1iisc.1m S..:enc E1JiHlr 
You can S('c it l"rorn !hr LowPrs of (;ntrr• und Flanner. You ran srn it from the librarv and from StorwlwnJ{n. You c·an snf' it.rrom llw doors of LLForlunt'. You r1111 l'vrn ,·at.rh a. glimpse of it from the Norlil Dining l!all. Arr, Wf: talking about llw (;oldl'n Donw? l\io, wi;'rr talk­ing about Brnrm-Phillips flail. a small dorm wilh ,t big prcscncP on Notre l>amr·s nunpus. 
Brrc'n-l'hillips, !of'atrd on thr south­nast ronwr of North Quad. is one of the nldcsL dorms on campus. lluill in 19:{9 and ·cDnvPrtf'Cl to a wonwn's dorm in 11)73. Bl' is l10mP LO sorrni of thr most talPntPd and viva<'ious wonwn on cam­pus. arf'.ording Lo its rnsidnnts. 
"Tlw wonwn ol' Bl' nrr all ovrr thr placr." f'r<'shman l,Pigh Bothr said. "The girls lwrl' arP busy all thr. time." 
l<nmn1 for lhnir spirit!'d naturn and lwalthy appPtitr>s, tlw ''Bah1is" of BP an> i11volwd in a variPty of' artivitiPs, ranging f'rom varsity athktirs and studfmt gov-. Prnnwnt. lo ('O!lllllllllity SPrvicr, whrre many havP an artivl' prcsPncP. 
s,,coiHI vnar rt>rlor HPbf'rca Davidson notPd 11w·fralPrna! na1lirP oi' !W's rnsi­cl P nts. "Thc•rc• is a lot of good will lwlWl'l'll tlw wonwn in this dorm." sllf' said ...\Y!wt!wr a girl is ('Plebrating a birthday or going through a difficult limP. tlwrP is alwavs a trPnwndous amount of'support." · 
Tlw spirituality in Bl' takf's pn11·pcfonc:P as wPll. liach Sundav and \VPdn1'sdav. rPsiclP11ts gatlwr in.!hP t'hapc>l of s·t. 1-'rnncis 111' .\ssisi lo attPnd mass. 
"Mass is a pl.arP ,vlwrP our rc~sidPnts c·nm1' lo !)I' shapPCl as Christians and to al'lirm tlwir faith." Davidson said. "This c·ommitnwn! to tlH'ir faith inf!uPncPs thPir PVPryclay adions and pPrsonal d10il"Ps." 
This rnmmitmc·nt was laudPd when 13P n·crivPd a spncial ,\postolir blnssing in 1984 from Popr John Paul II. 
Bl' also has a grnat history of interhall sports drnmpionships. Winning interhall titlPs in socr.rr. baskPtball. football. and most rcc'(\llllv. vollevball. the Babes rnputation. This past weekend, BP held its third became you get to meet so many people uphold an upstanding itthlPtk rrputation "Having the not-so nattering stereotype annual beach party, a night of music, you wouldn't otherwise get to interact on campus. !.Pg1:ndary football roach of the Bay of Pigs givr,s BP a fun loving dancing and tropical fun on an otherwise with," said hall co-president Mary Ellen Frank Lr·ahv l'V«'n had an offirc in the and spirited attitude and distinguishes us rainy February night. The spirited Babes Wilson. halls ol' BP.. as a dorm," said junior Kerry Donovan. spent most of the afternoon decorating RA Jamie Fanning agreed. "Breen­
.\s !'or tradition, BP cclcbratc~s thn As one of the smaller women's dorms their sections. turning the dorm into a Phillips is the most unique place I've ever op«·ning of football season with an annu­on campus, BP is -a place where "every­tropical paradise Jimmy Buffet would lived," she said. "If I had the opportunity al bathrobP brnakfast whPn' the women body knows your name," said freshman have been proud to call home. More than to do it again, I would live here. I love r.;rn bi' seen marching to North Dining Jesska Manske. "l feel like I've gotten to 70 percent of the dorm attended, making living here. and wanted to be an RA to I !all in thPir pajam,1s. know most of the freshman here as well BP's winter SYR a great success and a lot give back what BP has given to me. 
!3P's mascot. formerly the Banshees, as a lot of upperclassman, which I don't of fun. However, I feel like I've only gotten more 
was d1angr,d this year to the Babes as a think I would have gotten to do had 1 "There is a great sense of community out of it. BP just keeps on giving back to 
clever play on thP dorm·s rathrr robust been in a larger dorm." here. l love being involved in the dorm you." 


NIELSEN RATINGS 

of Feb. 2I-27 
Show Rating Total Viewers 
1. ER 20.7 20.9 million 
2. 
Who Wants to be a Millionaire 18.8 18.9 million 

3. 
Who Wants to be a Millionaire 17.8 17.9 million 

4. 
42nd Annual Grammy Awards 17.3 17.4 million 

5. 
Who Wants to be a Millionaire 17.2 17 .3 million 

6. 
Who Wants to be a Millionaire 15.9 16.1 million 7. Friends 14.4 14. 5 million 8. Frasier 14.3 14.4 million 


9. 
Who Wants to be a Millionaire 14.0 14.1 million 

10. 
CBS Sunday Movie: Perfect Murder, 12.9 l 3.0 million Perfect Town, Part I 


Source· Associated Press 

page 16 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, March 1, 2000 
NBA 
Miller's 24 points lead Pacers to victory over Pistons 
Associated Press 
IJ\'DlANAPOLIS 

Reggie Miller scored 24 points and Jalen Rose had 20 as the Indiana Pacers overcame the absence of Dale Davis and Al Harrington to beat Detroit 115· 105 Tuesday night and extend their home winning streak tu 23 games. 
Grant Hill led the Pistons with 37 points and Jerry Stackhouse added 32. but they got little help from their teammates. 
Davis sat out with a pulled hamstring and Harrington had a bruised calf muscle. Rik Smits scored 18 points and grabbed 13 rebounds, l\fark Jackson added 13 points and 13 assists and Austin Croshere, playing for Davis, added 13 points. 
The Pacers have not lost at Conseco Fieldhouse since Detroit beat them 107-99 on Thanksgiving Day. 
Christian Laettner hit two baskets as the Pistons scored the game's first six points. but Crosherc scored seven points to pace an 18-3 lndiana run over a 
4:34 stretch for an 18-9 lead. A 10-2 flurry over the last 3:26 of the period pushed the lead to 33-15. 
Stackhouse missed all seven of his shots. Detroit shot just 6­of-27 (22.2 percent) and Indiana outrebounded the Pistons 22-12 in the first 12 minutes. 
Hill shot 4-of-5 and Stackhouse 4-of-6 as the Pistons shot 15-of-23 in the second quarter, outrebounded the Pacers 13-6. outscored them 34-25 and cut the deficit to 57­49 at the half. 
Detroit rallied to 92-88 with nine minutes remaining, but the Pistons went cold and the Pacers pulled away. 
Lakers 90, Trailblazers 87 
The Los Angeles Lakers earned more than just a victory. They gained momentum, respect and undisputed posses­sion of the league's best record. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Shaquille O'Neal had 23 
points and Kobe Bryant added 
22 Tuesday night as the Lakers 
defeated the Blazers in a 
thrilling battle hetweirn the 
NBA's two finest teams. 
The Lakers won their 12th 
straight game and snapped the 
Blazers' 11-game streak. 
Portland also had won 16 
straight at home. 
Scottie Pippen had 19 points 
to lead thP Blazers, who 
couldn't get anything going 
after Pippen's 3-pointer put 

Portland ahead 85-84 with 3:07 · to go. 
It was the first time in NBA 
historv that two teams with at 
least· an 11-game winning 
streak had faced each other, 
and the game lived up to its 
billing right to the end. 
The Lakers led by as many as 
11 early in the fourth quarter, 
but a 3-pointer by Grng Anthony 
tied it at 80-all with 4:46 to 
play, and Pippcn's 3-pointer 
from 27 feet away gave the 
Blazers the lead. 
130th teams sputtered for the 
next few minutes. but the 
Lakers inched ahead on two 
free throws by Kobe Bryant and 
another by Ron Harper to make 
it 87-85 with 34.3 seconds left. 
After Damon Stoudamire 
missed an 18-foot jum.per. 
O'Neal was quickly fouled and 
made one of two for an 88-85 
lead. Pippen rushed another 
long 3-pointer, and Steve 
Smith's shot off a long offensive 
rebound was nowhere close. 
Portland got a meaningliess 
layup from Arvydas Sabonis to 
end the game. 
Kings 112, Grizzlies 87 
Chris Webber had 23 points, 
nine rebounds and seven assists 
as the Sacramento Kings 
snapped a four-game losing 
streak with a victory over the 
Vancouver Grizzlies. 
It was a much-needed victory 
for the Kings. who had lost six 
of seven games since the All­
Star break to slip into the eighth 
spot in the Western Conference. 

Strong defensive pressure in the second quarter helped the Kings build a 16-point halftime lead. The margin never went under 11 points in the second half. 
Jason Williams had 13 points and eight assists, Nick Anderson and Jon Barry both scored 13 points and Scot Pollard added 10 points and 10 rebounds. 
Othcllla Harrington scored 20 points for Vancouver and Shareef Abdur-Rahim added 19 points and nine rebounds. Mike Bibby contributed 17 points and 12 assists. 
Webber scored eight points and Anderson had soven in thn third quarter as the Kings kept Vancouver from cutting intu their lead. 
Ahead 86-71 starting the fourth quarter.. the Kings scored the first six points. Pollard had consecutive layups, putting Sacramento ahead 92-71 with 
10:26 remaining. 

Webber scored 11 points and Corliss Williamson had 10 in the first half, helping the Kings take a 61-45 lead at halftime. 
The Kings went to their bench in the second quarter with great success, outscoring the Grizzlies 35-16. Barry came off the bench 
for eight points and Predrag Stojakovic seven.  reserve scored  
Spurs 93, Heat 69  

David Robinson scored 19 points as the San Antonio Spurs took control early and cruised to a victory over Miami, holding the Heat to a season-low point total. 
Terry Porter added 15 points and Avery Johnson 14 for San Antonio, which played its third straight game without the injured Tim Duncan, who is sidelined with a lower abdomi­nal strain. San Antonio has won three of its last four games. 
Miami, which had a four­game winning streak snapped, was led by P.J. Brown's 16 points. The lleat played without center Alonzo Mourning, who was out with a sore left ankle. 
The Spurs received more bad 
news in the first quartf)r when 
Duncan's replacement in the 
starting lineup, Malik Hose, 
went down with a sprained 
right ankle. He missed the 
remainder of the game. 

San Antonio, which never 
trailed, jumped out to a 24-12 
lead after the first quarter as 
Miami managed to hit only 6 of 
23 field goals. 

Porter came off of the bench 
to score IO first-half points as 
San Antonio led 45-32 at half­
time. 

The Spurs continued to pour it 
on in the second half as Miami 
could get no closer than 1:3 
points. San Antonio took a 74• 
52 lead into the fourth quarter 
as Antonio Daniels connected 
on a running jumper at the 
third-quarter buzzer. 

The Spurs' largest lead was 
78-53 on .Jaren .Jackson's ;-3. 
point field goal with 10:32 
remaining. 

Hornets 92, Timberwolves 87 
Elden Campbell scored 22 points and the Charlotte Hornets snapped a three-game losing skid despite the absence of Derrick Coleman with a victo• ry over the Minnesota Timberwolves. 
Coleman, the llornnts' sec­
ond-leading scorer and 
rebounder, sat out with a 
sprained right ankle, which he 
injured in Charlotte's loss to 
Seattle on Monday night. 

The Wolves went cold in the 
final five minutes after erasing 'an 11-point second-quarter deficit and lost for the first time 
in five games. · 

Kevin Garnett (21 points) swished a shot with 4:49 left for an 85-84 lead. After Eddie Jones tied it at 85 with a foul shot with 4:20 left, both teams went cold until Campbell hit an 18-footjumper with 1:32 left. 
lie added a free throw 29 sec­
onds later for an 88-85 lead. 
Garnett's turnaround jumper 
pulled Minnesota to 87-85, but Garnett grabbed Jones and was whistled for a foul with 25 sec­onds left. Jones, who scornd 17, sank both shots for a 90-87 lead, and David Woslr-y stole the ball from Garnett on the ensu­ing possession, was fouled and sank both free throws. 
Campbell and Jones each had 10 quick points, prompting Wolves coach Flip Saunders to joke, with his team up 23-22: "If we had been able to trade Coogs for Campbell and Jones, they'd only have two points." 
Before last year's truncated season, the Wolves passed on an opportunity to sign and trade Tom Gugliotta to the Lakers for Campbell and Jones. 
But Saunders was in no laughing mood as the Hornets used a 20-5 run to take control at 42-31 on their way to a 51-44 halftime lead. 
Magic 103; Supersonics 94 
Hon Mercer scored 27 points and the Orlando Magic never trailed in beating the Seattle SuperSonics to break a five• game losing streak. 
Seattle cut Orlando ·s lead to 99-92 on a layup by Gary Payton with 1:37 left, but Mercer responded with consec­utive jump shots to give Orlando its first victory since Feb. 16. 
Orlando shot 51 percent as six players scored in double fig­ures. 
Mercer's 27 points were the most he has scored for Orlando since joining the Magic in a Feb. 1 trade with Denver. Darrell Armstrong scored 18 points. Pat Garrity 14, John Amaechi and Monty Williams had 11 each 
~ and .cl:mcky ,Atkins :r,hipped in 10. Payton had 29 points. includ­ing 25 in the second half, for Seattle. Vin Baker scored 19 points and Brent Barry and Rashard Lewis had 13 each. Horace Grant. making his return to Orlando for the first time since an offseason trade. had six points and a game-high 10 rebounds. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r·m-at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day. including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
LACROSSE OFFICIALS HOUSEMATE WANTED. Need help with a project? Or. if you would prefer: Officials needed for Men's Close to ND. Owner has pets. I'm Henry the egg, I am. lnterhall Lacrosse. This is a FOR RENT Kitchen privileges, large room and Complete DESKTOP PUBLISHING Henry the egg, I am. I am.
NOTICES 
great way to get outside. earn full basement. services are available at 
good money. & have fun! ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE $300/mo. incl. all utilities. THE COPY SHOP Hey rollerblading buddy ...thanks for THE COPY SHOP Attend the mandatory officials AND CLOSE Call Mary at 287-1B57. LaFortune Student Center catching my fall! LaFortune Student Genier meeting on Wed. 311 @ 6pm hltp:/lmmmrentals.homepage.com/ Call 631-COPY Store Hours in Rolf's Sports Rec. Center email:mmmrentals@aol.com HOUSES FOR RENT 1) 5-bed-Mark--1'11 be yours again soon. Mon-Thur 7:30am-Mid or contact Brandon Leimbach 232-2595 room. $1000/month. 2) 4-bedroom, Hey Lizz, Chris, Air, Krista. Lisa. Have I said thank you lately? So for Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm @631-3536. $900/month. 3) 3-bedroom, $700. Mai, Maria and especially Laur! all the rides and smoothies (and so Sat: Noon-6:00pm Available '00-01. Call Bill at 675-0776. We'll make Y'all are the greatest. Thanks for much more) thank you. Sun: Noon-Mid WEB DESIGNER NEEDED 4-6 Student Rental House ..2 1/2 almosl any changes to the houses. everything. -Lou Free Pick-Up & Delivery1 National Publication has opening baths lots of space; Parking Lot Backstreet Boys will never be the Call 631-COPY for designer to help improve and and Laundry ... Dave 291-2209 Gay? Lesbian? Christian? same. Neither will Seattle We're open late so your order will maintain existing sites. 277-0033 Questioning? Looking for a few
FOR SALE 
be done on time! www.nkn.com B'NB REGISTRY other students doing the same? Third? Whatever. At least we know 
219-291-7153 Call Tom 1·4112orTami 1-3016 how to dance. To Iggy Pop, that is! GRADUATION ROOMS AVAIL-New Phone Card for more information about a gath­ABLE1 ATTENTION SOUND ENGINEERS EXCELLENT 5 BEDROOM HOUSE 886 mins. $20 ering on Wednesday evening. Nell & Stina--get good tans in Need hotel rooms lor graduation Local Sound Company has open-GOOD AREA NORTH 2773097 258-4805 or 243-9361 Florida for me. I'll think of you while 
weekend? ings for experienced FOH engi• The clock is running out ... I'm in the tanning booth--in CT! There are still rooms available in neers and stage hands. Call 277 · NICE HOMES FOR NEXT Pretty soon I will be one of those the Michiana area for graduation 0032 www.thesoundcompany.com SCHOOL YEAR GOOD AREA Quality ranch. people who sleeps. Hi Nellie and Jocelyn' 2000. NORTH 2773097 2107 Rockne Dr., I don't know what I'll do with myself! For more information. please con• GRAPHIC LAYOUT 1639 sq. ft.. 3 bdrm, basement. Hello to Bo and Brian. my Knott tact Anthony Travel at 1 x7080 or in International racing publication has NEW 4-BDRM. HOUSE NORTH loads of storage. Hey Mike boys. the LaFortune basement. opening for computer graphics lay-OF CAMPUS. 2-car garage. $113k. 
out person. Looking for fresh excit-$350/PERSON. MIN. 3 PEOPLE. Good luck on the HA! thing Friday Joe and Lisa and Justin are going ing designs lo improve established CALL JOHN 273-3828. 288-8854. night. to be here in a few days1! I am magazine. Flexible hours. 277-0033 thrilled! 
1· bdrm Apt. walk in closet. parking MiniDisc Player. New Low price. -A groupie!!! 
WANTED 
Editor/prool reader needed to work space. In nice residential area on a Playstation 2 on March 4. Call4-Does anyone want to send me flow-
with writers for national publication. lake, 10 min drive from ND. 1805 Hi Abby ers? It would be appreciated. ASPIRING WRITERS1 Flexible hours. Call 277-0033 $400/mo. $250 dep. Postgrad stu­www maincampus.com seeks stu-dent or faculty only No smoking, no Spring Break in Austria... I want to play outside today dents for stones ranging from Job opportunity for reliable, sell-alcohol. no party. Call 277-0189 My dream come true!! Care to join me? Politics/Sex/Culture/Opinions motivated studenl to work for ortho-betw 12-9pm. Please.
PERSONAL 
$25 per story! dontist. Run errands, make deliver-Take that Bogershield 
ies. and light maintenance. Hours B&B for ND grad & Football Happy Wednesday to all' Email us at: flexible. Call Mary, Shawn. or 3 miles. 4 rooms. I'm Henry the eighth. I am. earn@mamcampus.com Stacey at 234-2143 between 8-4. 287-4545 www.thecommentator.com Henry the eighth, I am. I am. I gotta get outta here 
page 17

Wednesday, March l, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS 
Kellogg Institute and La Alianza 
A C.e.le.b~a.+i~ of C.cu•~""C\Val 
""1tth 

Chic:::.~go s~J1,"'\b~ Sc.hoot 
Popular Brazilian Mu.sic 
Friday, March 3, 2000 
8:00 pm 

Reckers, South Dining Hall 


hicago Samba School is a t plays the Dl c azllian musle in the Midwes variety of s ing a Nova, SB.lllba, Olodum, F ode and One iting styles, the Batuca ~MrJP# 
mplete ensemble 
een during the carnavals in Brasil. Wbe no dancer will be able to stop! 
"Percussion, percuss1 ercussion. The CSS is an tremely talented group of (mostly) native-bor sicians that reate some of the ver heard. You
most danceable and energetic samba jams practically have to be a corpse not to want Jason Koransky, Centerstage 
" .•.the musicians of the Chicago Samba School sometimes bloody their hands in the passion t_o incessantly play the guttural African sounds that have the flavor of Brazil. They have the ability to create an environment filled with joy and a 
strident joviality for all that see them perform. Penelope Baker, I.A Ra:za Newsweekly. 
Open to the Public 

Visit the Observer on the Web. www.nd.edu/----observer 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Rocker re-signs Mth Atlanta for I year 
Associated Press 
KISSIMMEE, Fla. 

John Rocker, suspended until May 1 for his offensive com­ments against gays, foreigners and minori­
ties, agreed Tuesday to a one-year contract with the Atlanta Braves. 
Terms of the contract 


with not Rocker immediate­ly available. The 25-year-old 
left-hander was one of the Braves' lowest-paid players last year at $217,500. 
Rocker had 38 saves, one short of the franchise record, but does not have enough major league service to be eligible for arbitration. That severely limit­ed his bargaining power and probably meant a contract of $300,000 to $350,000. 
The players' association has appealed Rocker's suspension, which covers all of spring train­ing and the first 28 days of the regular season. A decision by arbitrator Shyam Das is expect­ed this week. 
The Braves also signed out­fielder Freddy Garcia to a one­year deal. He has a chance to make the team as a bench play­er. 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
McGraw nominated for Coach of the Year 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame women's basket­ball head coach Muffet McGraw has been named one of 15 final­ists for the Naismith Women's College Basketball Coach of the Year Award. It is the second straight year the 13-year Irish mentor has been a finalist for the award. 
The winner, selected by Naismith's National Advisory Board members, NCAA Division I coaches former Naismith award winners, NCAA Division I conference commissioners and media representatives, will be presented with the award on April 8 in Atlanta, Ga. 
McGraw has guided the Irish to a 24-3 record and 15-1 mark in Big East Conference play this 
IFWl-tim~~:~: 
graduate. Starting salary, $32,000. Post offer mental and physical screening. 
Marine Officer Programs Call toll free for an interview 1-877-299-9397 www.MarineOtlicer.com 

season. Notre Dame has enjoyed a top-10 ranking throughout most of the season. Currently, the Irish are ranked sixth nationally after spending six weeks at No. 5, their highest ranking in school history. 
McGraw, who owns a 285-113 ledger at Notre Dame and 373­154 overall mark in 18 seasons. has led the Irish to seven con­secutive 20-win seasons. This year, the Irish won a school­record 20 straight before losing to top-ranked Connecticut on Sat., Feb. 26, in their regular­season finale. 
McGraw has led Notre Dame to four consecutive 20 NCAA tournament berths and six over­all. Her 1997 squad made the school's first and only Final Four appearance, while the 1998 team advanced to the Sweet 16. 
The other finalist are; Geno Auriemma (Connecticut), Joe Ciampi (Auburn), Bill Fennelly (Iowa State), Mark French (UC Santa Barbara). Gail Goestenkors (Duke), Sue Gunter (Louisiana State), Andy Landers (Georgia), Rene Portland (Penn State). Marsha Sharp (Texas Tech), C. Vivian Stringer (Rutgers). Pat Summitt (Tennessee) and Kay Yow (North Carolina State). 
VISUALIZE 
YOUR FUTURE AS A 
CHIROPRACTIC PHYSICIAN 
LOGAN OFFERS: 
• Prominent, outstanding faculty. 

• 
A strong tradition of academic excellence and student success . 

• 
Modem state-of-the-art facilities. 

• 
Financial aid to approximately 90% of our students. 


• 
Hands-on clinical:_experiences. Logan also offers a B.S. in Human Biology and an Accelerated Science Program (ASP). 


/>rtj>art! for an exciting career in health colt!. 
JLOOAN 
CoLLEGE • OF • cH1j§r1AC11c 



1-800-533-9210 
http://www.Jogan.edu 

1851 Schoeafer Rd.• Chesteriield,MO 63017 Phone:(31 .) 227-2100 • FAX:(314) 207-2.25 loganadm@logan.edu 
An E.qua/ Oppo,tuniljt Institution ofHigher Education 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 1, 2000 
W. B-ball 
continued from page 28 
would sit on this stage area behind the basket." l\1c0wen recalled. "They started holding signs up, like 'lley coach, how about running this play?' Because I would acknowledge their signs, they would become more and morn brave. When the games would he over, they would come over and shoot around l'or a while. They were good kids." 
But now, instead of good­natured heckling from behind thP basket, Ber.ker had to be a motivator and teacher. Ile had coached before, in recreation leagues. but this was different. For the next three weeks, six days a week. Becker assisted with the .JV and varsity pro­grams. lie adjusted quickly, working tirelessly with the tPam, giving them tips and impressing McOwen. 
"I think as a coach you can look at people and tell if they've got it in them to be a coach." McOwen said. "Thcrn's some­thing about coaching that really gets in your blood if you like it. And he has it. He's got a guod personality. he's a worker and hp,'s smart.'' 
The highlight of his tenure occu,·red the Thursday he returned to Notre Dame. About 10 minutes prior to the game, McOwen approached his JV coach. They decided that Ryan, along with the two undergradu­ate assistants, his sister Caitlin and her friend Julin '.'vficklos would handle the coaching duties for the game. The present coaches sat in the stands while the future took over. For a few hours. at least. · 
"I had asked him about coach­ing in a game sometime," Becker said. "Then three minutes before that game, he comes up to me and tells me I'm in charge." 
It didn't take long for Becker to become accustomed to roaming the sidelines. 
"After a month of that [coach­ing at Villa]," Becker said, "I knew I wanted to trv it." 
McOwe,n and Becker had an idea. The Villa coach. who also serves as athletic director and coach for soccer and lacrosse met with his assistant. He sug­gested Becker write a letter to McGraw, a Philadelphia native, to see if she had a spot open on her coaching bench. 
A few days after arriving at Notre Dame for the second semester, Becker wrote that let­ter, asking McGraw what she believed was the best wav to break into the coaching profes­sion. 
Three days after sending the letter, McGraw responded, ask­ing Becker to stop by the office. They met the following day, a meeting tliat Becker will never forget. 
"She said the best way to learn how to coach is to do it and by ,vatching others," Becker said. "Then she asked if I wanted to work with them. I was totally floored and shocked." 
Watching the great ones 
Basketball has always played a 
major part in Becker's lifo. He 
started playing the game around 
age 6 with aspirations of being a 
star player. But fate took over 
early in his high school career. 
After playing for the freshmen 
tr.am, Becker was forced to quit. 
Diagnosed with arthritis at age 3. 
the pain in his knees shortened 
his career. 
"I never really let that [arthri­
tis] stop me from playing," said 
Becker, who played golf. tennis 
and bnsehall in high school. "But 
my doctors were against it." 
lfo still plays for the Zahm team and competes in pickup More than a year has passed games. And he'll have a team nt sincn the meeting with McGraw. Bookstore Basketball squad. Since then. he's coachP:d the 

Hut Becker doesn't need to he Villa .loseph Marie JV summer on the court to enjoy basketball. league team to a championship. 
The oldest of four children. he He assisted with McOwcn again remembers going to downtown over the winter break. He's been Philadelphia to watch college elected senator of Zahm llall. Ile games with his father, cousin has an on-campus job. working and two uncles. On Saturday or in the Copy Cent!ir in the Grace Sunday afternoons, they would Ila!! basement. watch the Hig Five doublehead­I!e's gonf' from an unknown to ers at the Palestra. And then an integral part of the No. 5 every year. Becker, his cousin team in women's basketball. 
and  uncle  Talk to Becker  
would go the Atlantic 10 tournament.  "]'here's something about coaching that really gels  for a fnw min­utes and voti'II hear the cxdte­ 
That's when he first caught a glimpse of  in your blood ~(you like it. And he has it."  men t in his voice, see the joy in his face.  
one  of  his  To  this  day.  
coar.hing  John Mcowen  Becker still is in  
i  d  o I  s  ,  Villa Joseph Marie coach  awe of his posi­ 

Temple's .John Chaney, famous for the loosoned neckties and bulging eyes that makP: him look like he sparred 10 rounds with Mike Tyson. 
"We always stayed to see the Temple game because I loved John Chaney," Becker recalled. "I remember after one of the games, we were in a reoiption afterwards for the corporate sponsors. I'm standing there eat­ing a sandwich and Bill Cosby is on my right. I bumped into him. then two minutes later iu walks John Chaney. I talked to him for a couple minutes. it's me, John Chaney and Bill Cosby talking. Al the time 1 was 12 or 1:1 years old. It was amazing. 
"Growing up in Philadelphia, you've got to love Temple bas­ketball," Becker added. "Chaney's just so fiery, he really cares about basketball. I've met him a couple times at different basketball tournaments and he's such a great guy; he'll sit there and talk to you and he's so ani­mated. Looking down in the future. if I cnuld ever have my own team, I want to have that great relationship with the play­ers and get the fans so excited." 
There are other coaches that have caught Becker's eye. Irish men's coach Matt Doherty, Duke head coach Mike Krzyzewski and Oklahoma head coach Kelvin Sampson come to his mind. 
Especially Sampson. 

Becker read an article last year about Sampson's undr,r­graduate years at Michigan State. Every day, Sampson would go into the Spartan basketball office to talk to coach Jud Heathcoate, asking if he could help out with the team. Heathcoate said he didn't need any assistance. Sampson contin­ued to pester the coach, contin­ued to stop by the office. Then one day, the dedication paid off. Ileathcoatr, finally obliged. giving Sampson an opportunity of a life­time, as an undergraduate assis­tant. 
Sound familiar? . 

"I brought the article into Coach McGraw and said. Look he did the same thing as I did," Becker said. "So I wrote him a letter at the end of last year. I le wrote a note back saying that a lot of it [getting into coaching) is being in the right place at the right time. Be said to keep being dedicated. that it may seem diffi­r.ult now but eventually you'll get a break. That was real oncour­aging to hear." 
McGraw's apprentice 

It's Feb. 17. two days before the most important game of tho season -up to that point -a road game against No. 8 Rutgers. Thf\ first tMm is work­ing on their zone clef'ensc against two substitutes and three under­graduate men. Becker, standing near half court in a swnaty gray T-shirt tucked into black nvlon pants with a stripe down rach side intently watches the action. 
tion. 

"Of all the teams I thought I'd bo on in col­lege, women's basketball was not one of them," Becker said. "Sometimes I walk into the prac­tices and can't bf'lieve I'm here." 
Ilc's quick to point out his mentors -McGraw and her three assistants -who hnlpcd make the transilion to coaching easier than expected. 
"They didn't know me from whoever !when he began last yearI." Becker said. "We'rn in 
RETIREMENT INSURANCE MUTUAL FUNDS TRUST SERVICES TUITION FINANCING 
While TIAA-CREF invests for the long term, it's nice to see performance like this today. 


TIAA-CREF delivers impressive results like these by combining two disciplined investment strategies. 
In our equity accounts, for example, we combine active management with enhanced indexing. With two strategies, we have two ways to seek out With over $250 billion in assets, we're the world's 
CREF GLOBAL EQUITIES ACCT. 1  
36.05%  22.02%  18.75%  
1YEAR ASOF 12/31/99  5YEARS AS OF 12/31/99  SINCE INCEPTION 5/1/92  

performance opportunities-helping to make your largest retirement company and the leading choice investments work twice as hard. 
EXPENSE RATIO 
INDUSlRY
CRH GLOBAL 
AVERAGE
EQUITIES 

o.1r2 1.92',I] 
1. The investment results shown for the CREF variable annuity reflect past perfo1mance and _are ~~t indi~ative of future rat~s of _ret~rn. The5e returns and the ~alue of th~ prin­cipal you have im1ested will nuauate, ~o the .shares you own may be ~re or less t~a.n their ongmal ~rtce up?~ redemption. Foreign stock marke~s. are subJect to add1tt0nal risks from changing currency valves, interest rates,govemm~nt ,egulat,ons. and polltJCal .and economic conditions. _2._TIAA-CREF e~pe~se§ are s~bJect to ~ha~ge and are not guaranteed for the future. 3.Source: Morning'1ar, Int. 12/31/99,tracking 279 world stoc.k mutual funds.TIAA-CREF lnd1v1dual and lnst1tut1onal Services, lnc:d1<1r1butes CRH cer­tificates and Interests in the TIM Real Estate Account. Teachers Personal Investors ~rv,ces, Inc. distributes the variable component of the personal annu1t1es,mutual funds and tuition savings agreements. TIM and TIAA-CREF Life ln:wrance Co. i~sue insurance and annuities.TIM-CRH Trust Company. FSB provides trust services. lnVfltment products are not FDIC Insured.may lose value and are not bank guaranteed. For more complete information on CRH, including charges and exp~nses, call 1800 842-.2776.ext. 5509, for 
the pro>pectu~ Read il carefully before you invest or send money. 0 2000 TIM-(REF 1/00. 
Combine this with our low  on  America's  campuses. If that sounds good  to  
expenses  and  you'll  see  you, consider this number 1 800-842-2776. Call and  
how TIAA-CREF stands apart  find <;>ut how TIAA-CREF  can  work for you today  
from the competition.  and tomorrow.  

www.tiaa-cref.org 
the middle of trying to win a national championship but they'rn still taking time to show me why we ran this play. They're amazing. 
"I can't believe how much Coac:h McGraw knows about bas­ketball," he cuntinucd. "She knows everything. I've nover mot anybody with as sharp a basket­ball mind as she has. And shfl is so passionate about tlrn game. That's what I love most about her." 
Those sentiments are er.hoed by the coaches with regards to their apprentice. 
"He's a real positivo influP:nce on the sidelines whic:h is always welcome," McGraw said of Becker. "At first, he was quiet, just watr.hing and observing, but then he started stepping in being a passnr in the drills and started charting statistics and stuff liko that. !Io's got to know the girls pretty well and has been a nice addition." 
"llr,'s tho jack-of-ail trades," added assistant coach Kevin Mr.Guff "He really helps us out whenever we need something. lle's done whatever we'w askHd of him." 
II' there's one thing Rocker has learnod in his tfmure as student assistant is tho time commit­ment, the dedication nmided to r.ompeto in coaching. 
"There's so much more than just basketball," Recker said. "You have to be a great public relations person to recruit peo­ple, there's a ton of non-basket­ball stuff like that that I've been shocked at." 
"It's obscene how hard they [the coaches] work," he· added. "Most pr.ople don't even know about that. I've been able to sfle day to day what makes a top­ranked basketball team tick. It blows my mind how much more there is than jusl basketball." 
This summer, Ber.ker plans to coach an AAU team near Philadelphia. The financ:e and government double major also hopes to have an internship at Morgan Stanley/Dean Witter or with his state senator. 
After graduation, he plans to send resumes to college teams, looking l'or a r.oaching joh. 
"He'll have a jumpstart on a lot of other people," McGulT said. "Most people haven't had the same opportunity." 
But before all of that, there's one short-term goal he hop,~s to achievn: a Final Four berth in his hometown, Philadelphia. on the first weBkend of April. 
"That would be amazing," Becker said. "I couldn't 1wen imagine it. I can't oven think about, 1get too excited. God-will­ing we'll get that chance." 

-----~-------------­
~ 
' 
' 
I 
. 
Wednesday, March I, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
I
I 
I 

Ree.
............. 
Student Award 
RecSports "Champion Student Award11 recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 
' 

Under the leadership of President Diana Mastej, the Equestrian Club has been ranked second in Region Vi and among the top twenty 
·teams nationally for the past two years. One of the club's for qualifiers for Regionals this year, Diana, a junior, has excelled in open flat and open fences, the highest class of competition in each event, the last three years. Last year Diana was ranked third in Regionals. She has finished first or second in the majority of her events this year, and was second in Cachionne, signifying the top open rider in the region. She is determined to finish first next year on her mount, Comet. Diana has also played co-rec broomball has a member of a campus team and also staffed the Equestrian Club booth at Late Night Olympics. A Business major, the Carmel, IN native plans a career in management information systems. 
Recipients receive CC:~ merchandise from the 
...a 
VARSITY SHOP 


"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame SportsH:ear" 
(Joyce Center) 
11.:r._ 
VARSITY SHOP

R~::::-/zZ4 
--·· 

"Specializing in A.utheutic 
w \V \V. nd. e du/ --recs port 
Notre Dame Sport.nvear" 

Look for this award to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive (C:~ ,......L....-~,..,1~ &I. Ja.'I..
merchandise courtesy of \..&,--.---,,...1___ ._ and the ~;1:7,0; with two locations in the Joyce Center. The v... is open Monday-Saturday 9:00am to 5:00pm and Sunday 12:00pm to 4:00pm. (Phone: 631-8560}. 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
League suspends Strawberry for 2000 season 

Associared Press 
TAMPA, Fla. 

Darryl Strawberry's stall was empty Tuesday. It figures to remain that way for a long time. 
"Reality is hitting pretty hard this morning," D a v i cl Cone said, 
one dav afte"r Straw­berry was suspended for one year berause he tested positive for cocaine. 
'Tm extremely depressed today," said Cone. perhaps the Yaukee closest to Strawberry. "It's tough watching close friends stumbln again. Because he's suspended and won't be a Yankee this year doesn't affect our friendship. I'm sure everybody in here feels thP same." 
Commissioner Bud Selig imposed the ban and did not make any provision for the troubled star to return early for good behavior: It is the third cocaine-related penalty of Strawberry's career. 
"First and foremost, he's 


"First and foremost, seemed head­
got to get his 
ed toward

life on track he ·s got to get his life 
greatness.

and get his on track and get his Bv the end of
addiction 
addiction under
under con­trol," Cone control." said. "What we can do as his 
Bud Selig
friends is to 
commissioner
try and con­
vince him there are things to look forward to." 
While they hope he can come back next year, Strawberry's teammates know there's a chance his baseball career is over. 
"I just don't know at his age," first baseman Tino Martinez said. "I think this was going to be his last year anyway. I think it would be hard to miss the whole year and come back." 
Martinez said he thought Strawberry would be "intrigued" by a future oppor­tunity to work with one the Yank.ees' two minor-league teams based in Tampa. 

Strawberry. an eight-time !\II-Star, had been expected lo be the primary designated hit­ter for the two-time World Series champions this season at a salary of $750,000. 
"I think wo have a designat­ed hitter in camp, even if it's a number of people doing one job," Yankcr:s manager Joe Torre said. "We just go 011. Wo'rf' going to miss him, no question, but you don't have him and you ran't rlo anything about it." 
Instead, Strawberry's third drug suspension since 1995 left his future in doubt. Family friends who spoke with Strawberry on Tuesday said he was depressed. 
"A baseball care1n means nothing at this point," short­stop Derek Jeter said. "You have to take it one step at a time. He has to do it himself. He has to want to du it, and I feel he wants to do it" 
Strawberry is a career .259 hitter with :fas home runs and 1,000 RBIs, and a legacy of tape-measure shots. The NL Rookie of the Year with. the New York Mets in 1983, he 
the· 1991 sea­son, at the age of only 29, he already had 280 home runs and 832 RBIs. 
But legal trouble slowed him while drug 

and alcohol problems almost stopped him. He had stays in the Smithers Center and the Betty Ford Center. Then, dur­ing the 1998 playoffs, he was diagnosed with colon cancer. 
"I think his major concern is taking care of his illness before he thinks about doing anything," outfielder Tim Raines said. "He's been having had a tough time over the last couple years. We hope he gets helped, and that's our main 
OBSERVER 
is now acc<;pting applications for the following position: 
Controller 
Applicant must be a soP,homore accounting or finance major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accoun~s payd;ble, cost-tracking and other transacnon duties. 
Please submit a personal statement to Mike Connolly, 024 South Dining Hali by Thursday, March 2, 2000. For more information, contact Tim Lane (63 I -5313) or Brian Kessler (631-4543). 
concern." 

Strawberry returned last season and hit .327 with three homers and six RBIs in 24 games. Ile hit .333 (5-for-15) with two home runs in the postscason, and the Yankees celebrated their second straight Series sweep with non-alcoholic bevt1rages, oul of rcspnct to Strawberry. 
Strawberry was suspended in 1995 for 60 days following a positive test for cocaine use. In 1999, Selig banned him again from April 24 to t\ug. 4 after Strawberry was arrnstr.d for cocaine possession and soliciting a prostitutA. 
Strawberry later plrased no contest to the charges and was undergoing rngular drug tests as part of his legal punish­ment. His Jan. 19 test came back positive and led to Hw latest penalty. 
"I didn't envy the commis­sioner," Cone said. "Last year was supposed to be a year suspension and it was rcducr,d to 120 days. It's pretty hard to makfl a strong argument this penalty was to harsh." 


Ja~·~:n~, MEDI WPLAv·
Department. ~ 
Guitars, omps, drumaets, Your Entertainment Superstore
sheet music and more. 

For the store nearest you, call toll-free 1·888-60-MEDIA. Product seleciion and ea-awilable 
pricing may vory anline. on select tides.
MediaPlay.com•m 
806330 221.4
Sale ands March 11, 2000. 

Wednesday, March t, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Duke guard Dunleavy returns home to fight mono 
Associated Pres, 
DURHAM, N.C. 

Mik1i Dunleavy Jr. has been sent home to recover from mononucleosis, meaning Duke's top rnserve probably will miss next week's Atlantic Coast Conforence tournament. 
Tlw 6-foot-7 freshman is to rest in Oregon. and coach Mike Krzyzewski said Tuesday he hopes Dunleavy will be back in time for the NCAA tournament. 
It can take weeks and some­times months to recover from mononucleosis. a blood condi­tion that leaves a person fatigued. 
"He is still a ways from being with us," Krzyzcwski said. "Ile is still tired. You just can't get a handle on it. I doubt very seri­ously that he'll be back for the ACC tournament... 
The No. 4 Blue Devils (22-4) are 1-1 since the Dunleavy was diagnosed with the illness. He was averaging 9.5 points and 
4.2 rebounds in 25 minutes. 
Even if Dunleavy can return by mid-March, his effectiveness could be limited after missing more than three weeks of prac­tice and games. 
"I think the reality now is we don't have Dunleavy and that changes the roles of everybody and it changes our team," Krzyzewski said. "But we have to adjust to that because we're not certain he is coming back. Mononucleosis is very difficult to pin down and how quickly a kid can recover." 
The absence of Dunleavy added minutes to an already overworked trio of Chris Carrawell. Shane Battier and Jason Williams. Carrawe!I and Williams played 40 minutes each in an 83-82 loss to St. John's on Saturday. while Battier logged 38. 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 1, 2000 
M. B-ball 
continued from page 28 
shooting will be crucial for the Irish. Both Provideuce and Miami used long distance shooting to fire up game-decid­ing runs against Notre Dame. 
"Against Miami, it was a mental breakdown," Doherty said. "Against Providence, it was a guy who was ridiculously hot and there's not much you can do against that. 
"The problem with Syracuse is they have four guys who can step out and shoot that perime­ter shot." Doherty added. "They're just good. We have to make some subtle adjustments in our zone." 
Syracuse has five players who average in double digits ­Thomas with 13.8 points per game, Jason []art with 12.0, Damone Brown at 11.4, Ryan Blackwell with 10.6 and Shumpert at 10.4 points. 
While Shumpert's shooting buried the Irish in the last meeting, Thomas has the potential to shut the [rish down defensively. Last season's Big East Defensive Player of the Year, the 6-foot-9 senior ranks second on the all•time list of block leaders in the confer­ence. 
"Thev have overall size and quickness and experience," Doherty said. "It's basically juniors and seniors on their team. They're taller at every position." 
Notre Dame's go-to guy is Murphy, who is a potential All­American. Murphy leads the Rig East in scoring with 23.1 

points per game, as well as rebounds at 10.5 per outing. When opponents find a way to keep him down, the Irish usu­ally sink as well. 
The Orangemen are looking to lock up a Big East regular season championship, while the Irish hope to rnmain in the sights of the NCAA selection r.ommittee with an upset victo­ry. 
"We've put [the NCAA tour• ncunent] wav in the back of our minds," se.nior point guard Jimmy Dillon said. "We'll worry about the postseason when the postscason comes. We want to get some momen­tum and that all starts tomor­row." 
Tonight's game marks the final home game of the season for the Irish, who boast a 13-3 record in the Joyce Center. It will be the last time seniors Dillon, Skylard Owens and Todd Palmer take the floor on their home court. 
"We want to send the seniors off the right way," Graves said. "It's going to be an emotional day for everybody. What a way to send them off, to dose out the season -on our home court with another big win." 
Dillon plans to stay focused on the goal at hand, rather than getting caught up in the emotions of his final home game. 
"It's going to be running through my mind, my last time stepping on the court at. the Joyce Center," Dillon said. "It's going to be an emotional night, and we're going to try to block it out as much as possible, and our goal is to get a victory against Syracuse." 


CAN YOU...NAME THAT NAME CHANGE? 
~IATCH EACH ITEM IN COLUMN A WITH I'IB RESPECTIVE N~'\IE CHANGE IN COLUMN B (SEE ANSWERS BELOW) 
COLUMN A  COLUMNB  
CASSIUS MARCELLUS CLAY  SIBC*  
PRINCE  ARTIST FORMERLY KNOWN AS PRINCE  
KAROL JOSEPH WOJTYLA  WHOOPIE GOLDBERG  
SIMON  MUHAMMAD ALI  
NDCIBD  PETER  
CARYN JOHNSON  POPE JOHN PAUL II  



*1HE NOTRE DAME COUNCIL ON INIBRNATIONAL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT HAS UNDERGONE A RECENT NAME CHANGE...INTRODUCING THE 
STUDENT INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS COUNCIL. 
!>'if38CT'TOD HldOOHJ\\=NOSNHOf NA'll\i:) ~31.3d=NOrlllS '.If 'l{l\id NHOf3d0d=\i1Alf0A\ Hd3S0f 10W'>I '..J81S=OEIIJGN '.g-;:)Nntd sv NA\ON)l A Til3"W'd0.:l l.SI.DIV=3:>N.nld :nv 03NWVl-lflli\l=AV'l.J Sn1'13.JWW smssvJ 

Wednesday, March 1, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
Searching for answers to tnysterious sports questions 
If you watch sports long enough, some things will start to jump out at you. They might seem weird or crazy or just not make a whole lot of sense. You can postu­latt> your own theo­ries but must usu­ally acci~pt that a definitive answf'r will be hard to come by. 
In the spirit of this search for the proverbial holy grails of the sporting world. I thought I'd share a few of those questions that are picking at that mostly­empty space I like to r:all my sports brain. Feel free to pro­vidr-your own answers. 
Let's start off dose to home under the Dome with Notre Dame football. At game one next year against Texas A&M, is the band going to play the "Bob chant"'? If thev do, how many peopl.e will actually make the little "b" and "d" with their fingers? Will it be all freshmen doing it? Of course, if no onP else did do it, would the fresh­men just pick it up on their own and burst out in joyous melody with the 1812 Overture? 


Moving over to the Joyce Center, what does it mean when the basketball public address announcer calls a foul 
a. "common foul"? Maybe I've just revealed a gross deficienr:y on my part in basketball lingo, but in eight years of playing organized basketball and a life­time of watching it. I've never heard that designation any­where else. Is saying it's "com­mon" actually a fancy name for blocking or reaching in? 
Next, basketball at any level: Whim someone shoots an air­ball. why does it seem like nine people stand back motionless and watch as one guy from the offensive team, and no more than one guy, makes a move for the ball? This will happen anywhere from Alumni Hall at Indiana University, where the Hoosiers beat Michigan State this weekend on what any shooter would deem a "pass," to your neighborhood court where just about everyone is a chucker. 
Going with the theme of bas­ketball but moving on to the professionals, how good is Vinf'.e Carter, and how good is going tu get? We saw him win the slam dunk contest by ele­vating both himself and fsaiah Rider's "East Bay Funk Dunk" to a different universe. Then, on Sunday, he dropped 51 points on Phoenix on a variety of dunks, drives. free throws, and, most impressively, fade­away jumpers a la Michael Jordan. 
Now. I'm the biggest Jordan fan in the world, and I don't think we'll soc his likes again. 
That being said, MJ didn't add that shot to his bag of tricks until much later in his career. Carter has it in year two. Watch out. 
Speaking of professional sports, professional football will apparently have a new face in the crowd when the World Wrestling Pedcral.ion sponsors its own league. Here, the roles of question and answer are reversed. The ½'WF's "The Rock" is asking me. "Do you smell what The Rock and the WWF are cooking?" to which I r:an only reply. "No, seriously." 
While the NFL gets out the sand bags and mason jars to try and wait out the storm of attention this new league will bring, I must ask: How have the last two Super Bowls included the Rams, the Falcons and the Oilers (a.k.a the Titans)? How did the Rams win a Super Bowl? Where did their quarterback, Kurt Warner, come from? 
Well, we can answer that last one: arena football, which brings up another interesting point. The upcoming arena football season was recently canceled due to some sort of labor disagreement. The ques­tions: How dues arena football go un strike? Does anyone real­ly watch it to begin with? Will you really miss it if it's not there? Maybe they just figured they'd get out of town before the WWP football train comes rolling through. 
This is the sort of stuff that's been rambling on in my mind for the last few days. You might have some questions of your own now. like: Does he think this was at all funny or infor­mative? Why did I flip the page to read the rest of this? What does "Fox Sports ... Almost" mean? Whose this guy's bar­ber. anyway? 
All good questions. I'm just happy I can't hear all the answers. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
THE TASTY BACON CHEDDAR WHOPPER: 
THINK OF IT AS A WHOPPER® THAT'S DRESSED UP WITH SOMEPLACE TO GO, 

THE WHOPPER' WITH A NEW TWIST FOR A LIMITED TIME. If you're already a fan of "America's Favorite Burger,"• why not try it a whole new way? With crispy bacon and melted cheddar cheese, it's sure to put a smile on your face. So head to a BURGER KING" restaurant soon and make sure to bring your appetite. 
The Huddle -Lafortune Student Center 


Please Recycle The Observer. 

A Salute to the Leaders of Tomorrow ­Air Force ROTC Cadets 
College is a time for decision Choose to become a leader 

Smart move. The whole concept of Air Force ROTC revolves around the cultivation of qualities that count for leadership. Whether you're about to start college or have already begun, it's time to make your decision, now. 
Making Leaders for the Air Force and Better Citizens for America 
Contact Captain Klubeck at 631-4676, or Klubecl<.1@nd.edu 

"Strong bodies fight, that weak bodies may be nourished." 
page 24 Wednesday, March 1, 2000 
'He-man' Mehan TKOs Vuolo in third round 
By KEVIN BERCHOU 
Sports Writer 
In 15:'i-pound action. Paul "HP-Man" MPhan lent some validity to his nickname with a convincing victory over Hobert "The Skinny Ginnea" Vuolo. Though Vuolo's reach was longer. Mehad was able to land punishing shot after pun­ishing shot. 
Intent only on protl'cting himself from a Mehan onslaught, Vuolo was not able to mount much of a charge. 
Afler stopping the fight three times to allow Vuolo to receive medical attention, the rnferee finally called the bout in the third round. allowing Mehan to come away with a TKO and a precious finals birth. 
In the other half of the 155­pound bracket. Jeff "The Pittsburgh Kid" Dubosh knocked off Tom "The Pretender" Pierce. In one of the night's closest bouts, Pierce demonstrated that despite his nickname he was indeed for real. Oubosh was given all he could handle and needed a third-round charge to come away with a split­decision victory. 
160-pound division . 
In a bracket thought to be tbe Bouts' most wide open, 
P.J. "Downtown" DuWors demonstrated himself as !be clear favorite. DuWors bested Joseph "The Polygamist" Smith in a classic that went the distance. 
DuWors worked predomi­nantly with his jab in an effort 
to hold Smith at bay. "I DuWors will tangle with Tim "Rock" O'Rourke and a unanimous decision. Though charge proved the difference. worked off my jab to try to Chris Matassa for the 160-coasted to a unanimous-deci­both fighters were able to land "I knew it was going to be overcome his reach," DuWors pound title. Matassa advanced sion victory from there. some spectacular shots, close," said Hobbins. "I just 
to the final round in winning a "I threw a lot of lead rights," Penn's blows proved the had to dig deep and put it all
said. "I was able to position 
myself to go upstairs and unanimous decision over Matt Nowak said. "I changed my mightier. on the line." downstairs that way." "All You Can Eat" McCullough. style a little bit to counteract Rob "The Golden Schlager" "I think I've gotten better his left-handed technique." Joyce looked more like
With the match seemingly 170-pound division 
knotted heading into the final with every fight," said Duwors. Nowak seemed to get better In 170-pound action, Brian "Golden Gloves," wailing on an "I just want to get a chance." as the fight progressed. "My overmatched Joe "Layth Down
round, DuWors knew he need­"Hoppe" Hobbins pulled out a 
ed to come out swinging. "I corner really kept me unanimous decision over Ben The Smacketh" Kippels. Joyce focused," Nowak said. "They connected on a series of pow­
was dead in the third," 165-pound division "The Mail Must Get Through"
helped me keep my energy erfu I uppercuts, leaving
DuWors admitted. "The guys Dillon.
level high." Kippels slightly dazed.
in my corner were awesome. In what might be the bouts' Both brawlers were able to
Nowak will duke it out with While Kippels had hoped to
They really pumped me up." deepest division, Sean "The score several vicious blows
Don "The Destroyer" Penn in lay down the smack, Joyce
Duwors then went to town Erie Kid" Nowak looks like the early on, setting the stage for
Friday night's final. Penn moved to lay down the law as
on a surprised Smith, landing toughest competitor. Nowak a third-round showdown. 
just enough shots to gain a whipped Joe "The Polish he scored a relatively easy
scored a first-round knock­Hobbins, the top seed, pulled
Tank" Czerniawski in gaining unanimous decision.
close split decision. down over southpaw slugger out all the stops and his late 

Heavy 
continued from page 28 
180-pound division 
Top seed Joey "Soda Pop" Leniski didn't find the road to the finals any easier than the one to the semis. but he man­aged to pull out another split decision against Doug "Sauce Doggy Dog" Bartels. 
The swift Bartels attempted to take control of the fight early and almost succeeded in getting a knockdown midway through the second round. But Leniski gathered enough momentum to mount a comfl­back in the third, highlighted by a flurry of punches just short of the closing bell. 
"I didn't come out real strong," Ieniski said. "So I had to first of all put my guard up when he charged me. I used my hook a lot more, which really made the difference in the match. I caught him with the hook, then came back with the power, and just got him off balance at times." 
Leniski will face off against Mark Criniti, who upset sec­ond-seeded Tom "The Hitter" DeSplinter in a unanimous decision. Criniti overcame DcSplinter's reach by biding his time, using his agility to move to all corners of the ring before delivering well-placed blows. 
190-pound division 
Fans near the blue corner found themsfllves close to a brawl in one of the most hotly contested fights of the night, as Kevin "Hardcore" Brandl 
"It took a lot more out of me than l thought . ... Hopefully, J'llfight better in the final than that." 
Mike "Honey" Hammes 190-pound contender 
defeated Jason "It's Not Easy Reing J Rod" Rodriguez in a splil decision. 
Both sides used the corner to their advantage in pummeling the opponent. but a third­round comeback by Rodriguez feII just shorL 
After earning the only bye of the division last night, senior Mike "Honey'" Hammes started his top-seed defense on a shaky note, defeating Chris "The Sweet Scientist" Pearsall in a split decision. After spending most of the first round to feel his opponent out, Hammes depended on his left jab, while keeping his right close for defense. In the third, Hammes turned to his right to keep Pearsall off guard. 
"It took a lot more out of' me than I thought," Hammes said after the win. "I would have liked to get a first fight in. almost like a sparring fighl. to get the nerves out and every­thing. Hopefully, I'll fight better in the finals than that:." 
200-pound division 

While Hammes may have found the two-round wait to be a negative factor, junior cap­tain and top seed Peter "Beat the Rap" Ryan had a different opinion. After reaching the semis on a bye and a walkover. the Keenan resident earned a decisive victory over Joe "It'll Take You a Month to" Healy. 
Ryan took the offensive early, using his speed and reach to deny Healy a chance to get into his groove. Healy was knocked down twice in the third round. and the referee called the fight just seconds before the closing bell. 
The last bout proved to be the shortest of the night. With a few deftly placed punches, off-campus law student Dan "Let Me" Adam knocked Alumni junior .Jonathon "BGP" Pcntzien to the canvas. aston­ishing the mostly Dawg crowd. 
"I knew John was a real strong guy with a good reach," Adam said. "So once I saw his face open up I on his punch I just tried to stick him in the nose. 1 got a couple good ones in and he went down." 


Wednesday, March l, 2000 "Strong bodies fight, that weak bodies may be nourishP,d." 
page 25 


By BRIAN BURKE Spons Wri[er 
Tim lightweight fighters came into the Jovr.e Center for Tuesday's Bengal Bouts semifi­nals looking to secure a shot at a championship. Many of the top Slwds moved on, but the finals will feature a pair of sur­prises. 
120-pound division 
James "Piranha" Fishburne had no difficulty overcoming Michael "Mr. Bubbles" Dixey in tlH1 first bout at 120 pounds, securing a win by unanimous decision. 
Fishburne had the smaller DixPy backpedaling throughout tlrn fight. and when Dixey dropped his hands, the top seed land0d multiple hooks lo the head. By the third round, Fishburne landed enough open hooks for Dixny to be given a standing-11ight count. 
In thr other l 20-pound scmi­linal. Shawn "Knockout The Old And Bring In Thr" NewbPrg also earned a unanimous deci­sion by nmploying an effective strategy. For most of the first two rounds, l\nwberg allowed Sam "Tl11• Dan" Buonadonna to chase him around the ring and hit Newburg in the hands. When · Buonadonna tired, Nm,bt1rg capit,tlized with jab and straight r.ornbinations to the head. 
130-pound division 
It was all about momentum wlrnn top-ranked Jason "The Sweet Sensation" McMahon clashed with Matt "The Don" Fumagalli in tho first 1:-w­pound bout. 
At different points in the explosive first round. each fight­er almost knocked out the other with wide-open hooks to the face. McMahon first landed a stunning blow that sent Fumagalli backwards, but Fumagalli soon answered. 
The second and third rounds were much of the same. Each time McMahon seemed to do damage, Fumagalli responded and r.ontrolled the end of each round. In the end it was Matt Fumagalli coming away with the upset-split decision. 
"I knew his hooks were awe­some at the beginning," Fumagalli said, "I was dropping my right hand, he kept hitting me with those hooks. but I kept concentrating on keeping my punches straight." 
Fumagalli will face the second seed, Camilo "Rollin"' Rueda, in the finals. Hueda notched a split-decision victory over Michael Kontz in his semifinal fight. 
The contest started off slowly with neither fighter able to land anything substantial as both moved in and oct. Eventually Kontz became more aggressive, throwing hooks and uppercuts. but Hueda was able to work inside, staying low and using a stiffjab. 
140-pound division 
Mike "The Motnr Citv Madman" Waldo did not plan to out-box second-seeded Anton "Ton of Bricks Poundin' Down On Yo face" Kemps in the 140­pound semifinals. Instead, he prevailed with brute force. 
Setting the tone from the start, Waldo came out swinging furiously, landing plenty of hooks as the two fighters stood toe to toe. The fight soon turned into a slugfest that Waldo need­ed to win. 
Kemps connected on his share of hooks and jabs, but Waldo got the best of most exchanges, as well as the surprising victory by unanimous decision. 
Top seed Kurt Wilson put an end to the surprise run of fresh­man Josh Coleman in the other semifinal bout of the division with a split decision. Coleman moved around a lot, sticking and moving, but unlike 
his quarterfinal win, he had trouble landing combinations. Wilson backed up Coleman and landed a few more hard shots. which made the difference. 
150-pound division 
Senior captain J.R. "Maddog" Mellin contin­ued his march to the finals with a unanimous decision over Tom "T. K" Owens at 150 pounds. 
Mellin adopted a more aggressive approach in the semifinals, moving in and out less, and trading hooks with Owens. Although he controlled the fight enough to win, Mellin did take more shots than in his quarterfinal bout. 
"I wanted to try out niy power a liltlc bit, too," Mellin said. "I kept seeing these bruisers in my weight bracket. It's sort of like playing chicken out there, you just keep hoping he's got less than you do, and he's gonna fall through before you do." 
Owens was able to answer some of Mellin 's hooks when the two stood in close, but the cap­tain never got into serious trou­ble. 
Presenting a formidable chal­lenge for Mellin in the finals will be Dennis "The Natural Disaster" Abdelnour. Abdelnour turned in a dominat­ing performance, knocking out "Cool Hand" Luke Stanton. 
Abdelnour backed up 

Stanton in the first round, landing continuous hooks to the head leading to a stand­ing-eight count. By the second round Abdelnour had scrapped teGhnique and pro­ceeded to hammer the head of Stanton, resulting in another eight-count. 
Stanton was unable to work through the barrage from Abdelnour and in the third round was finally knocked down, stopping the fight at 56 seconds. 
Abdelnour now has two knockouts in as many fights. 

120 LB. Wei~ht Division 
Jimmy "Piranha' Fishburn d. Michael "Mr. Bubbles" Dixey (U) Shawn "Knockout the Old & Bring in the"' Newherg d. Dan "San" Buonadonna (U) 
130 LB. Weight Division 

Matthew "The Don" Fumigalli d. Jason "The Swee[ Sensmion·· McMahon (S) 140 LB. Weight Division Camilo "Rollin"" Rueda d. Daniel "Too Short'" Gallegos (S) 
Kurt Wilson d. Josh Coleman (S) Michael "The Motor City Madman" Waldo d. An Kemps (U) 
150 LB. Weight Division 

J.R. "Maddog" Mellin d. Tom "T.K." Owens (U) Dennis 'The Natural Disa.-ter" Abdelnour <.l."Cool Hand"" Luke Stanton ( KO) 
155 LB. WeiQht Division 
Paul "He-Man" '!vlehan d. Rober! "The Skinny Ginnea'' Vuolo (TKO) Jetf"The Piusburgh Kid" Dobosh d. Tom "The Pretender" Pierce (S) 
160 LB. Weight Division 

P.J. "Downtown" DuWors d. Joserh "The Polygam1sl°0 Smith (S) Chris "My Nickname Was Excised" Matassa d. Matt "All You Can Eat" McCullough (U) 
165 LB. Weight Division Sean "The Eric Kid" Nowak d. Tim "Rock" O'Rourke (U) Don "The Destroyer" Penn d. Joe 'The Polish Tank" Czerniawski (U) 
170 LB. Weight Division 

Brian "Hoppe" Hobbins d. Ben "The Mail Must Get Through" Dillon (U) Rob "The Golden Schlager" Joy~e d. Joe "Layth Down The Smacketh" Kippels 
175 LB. Weight Division 
Tom "The Tulsa Romber" Biolchini d. Tom "How Ya Like Me Nuw·r· Dietrich (S) Josh 'The Sandman•· Thompson ct. Steve "The Angry Pirate" Pfeiffer (S) 180 LB. Weight Division Joey "Soda Pop" Lcniski d. Doug "Sauce Doggy Dog·· Bartels (S) 
190 LB. Weight Division Mark Criniti d. Tom "The Hitter" DeSplinter (S) Mike "Honey" flammes d. Chris 'The Sweet Scientist"' Pearsall (S) Kevin "Hardcore" Brandl d, Jason "It's Not Easy Being J Rod" Rodriguez (S) 
200 LB. Weight Division 

Pcler "Beat The Rap"' Ryan d. Joe "It'll Take You A Month To'' Healy (KO) Dan "Let Me" Adam d. Jonathon ·'BGP" Penllien (KO) 
(U) Unanimous (S) Split Decision 
(KO) Knockout (TKO) Technical Knockout JOSE CUELLARffhe Observer 
l . 
d 

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 1, 2000 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Former manager Anderson joins Hall of Fame 
Associated Press 
T/\MPA. Fla. 
Sparky Anderson had a choice. 

Would his Hall of Fame plaque show him wearing a Cincinnati Reds r.ap or a Detroit Tigers hat? 
"It was so hard," he said Tuesday after being elected by the Veterans Committee. "I spent nine years in Cincinnati and 17 in Detroit, and they treated me like a king in both places." 
In the end, the only manager to win World Series champi­onships in both leagues chose Cincinnati. He did it to thank for­mer Reds general manager Hob Howsam. 
"He hired a 35-year-old nobodv knew and he had the courage and fortitude to do that," /\nderson said. "Had he not done that, I doubt very much in all honesty that l would have managed in thfl major leagues. And I owe that to him." 
Anderson's election ensures a Red-lettPr reunion on induction day. Big Red Ylachine first base­man Tony Perez and longtime Cincinnati broadcaster Marty Brennaman were previously selected. 
Along with Anderson. the Vets elected Negro leagues outfielder Turkey Stearnes and 19th centu­ry infielder Bid McPhee, who played his entire career in Cincinnati. 
But Ted Williams, Stan Musial and the rest of the 14-member panel had a lot more trouble deciding which former big lea­guer to elect -be it Bill Mazeroski, Gil Hodges, Dom DiMaggio, Mel Harder or Tony Oliva. 
So for the first time since 1993, it did not choose anyone in that category. 
"We hoped someone would be there. we really did," first-time member Hank Aaron said. "It just got too hard. Maybe next year." 
Afterward, the chewed-up pens and half-eaten cake in the meeting room told the story. Despite five hours of discussion and two tough ballots, it was a shutout -it took 11 votes for election, and Mazeroski just missed with 10. 
"It built my hopes up, but not to the point where this is a big 
Gateway Vincentian Volunteers 
Working, Praying1 Uving.. .in the spirit of Vincent de Paul 

This may be the time to take a year and live in service to the poor. 
Become a Gateway Vincentian Volunteer! 
1-888-771-7220 gatevol@aol.com 
letdown." said Mazeroski. work­ing as an spring training instruc­tor for the Pirates in Bradenton, about an hour south of Tampa. 
"Th.ere was a lot of push in Pittsburgh and by the Pirates, and I appreciate all that. It just didn't happen," he said. 
Anderson, who turned 66 last week. was elected in his first of eligibility. Third on baseball's career victory list, he is the only manager to post 100-win sea­sons in both leaguP.s. 
"J never wore a World Series ring, but I will wear this one every day until I die," he said from his home in Thousand Oaks, Calif. "That, to me. is how much diffrrence there is between the World Series and Hall of Fame." 
Anderson will become the 16th manager inducled into the shrine at Cooperstown, N.Y., on July 23. He has been to the upstate New York village, but has never set foot inside the Hall 
"I didn't ever want to go into thP most precious plar.e in the world unless I belonged there,'' he said. 
Perez and Boston catcher Carlton Fisk, whose Game 6 home run beat the Reds in the 1975 World Series, were both elected in January by the Baseball Writers' Association of America. 
Anderson was 863-586 with the Reds from 1970-78 and led them to Series tit!es in 1975-7 6. He was 1,331-1,248 with the Tigers from 1979-95 and guided them to the 1984 championship. 
Anderson, who made two other Series appearances, is the only manager to lead two teams in career wins. He victory total ranks him behind just Connie Mack (3,731) and John McGraw (2,784). . 
McPhee batted .271 and stole 568 bases from 1882-1899. A second baseman, he resisted wearing a glove until late in his career. 
Stearnes hit .359 over 18 sea­sons in the Negro Leagues. He began his career with the Detroit Stars in 1923 and led or shared the league lead in home runs six times. 
The pane.I, down to 14 because of Buck O'Ncil's illness, could not decide on a former major leaguer. 
Mazeroski was a seven-time All-Star and won eight Gold 
Gloves. becoming onf' of the best of-the-ninth shot that lifted the Ted Williams, an inflmmtial fielding second baseman ever. Pirates over the Yankees in voice in the meeting room, He also hit one of the dramatic Game 7 of the 1960 World pushed for Harder, 223-186 for home runs in history, a bottom-Sories. thf' Cleveland Indians. 
-The Linebacker Lounge presents_ .. 
MarchMadnass. ••• 
Soui-h Bend Sty1ellll 
Get fired up for the Irish Basketball Game vs. Syracuse 
Co,ne to the Linebackerfor sonie Irish Luck 
Wednesday March 1 5PM-9PM 
• Specials, Contests and Givea»,ays 
• 
Grill Open for Orders...Best Burgers! 

• 
Giveaways from a~·s and Budweiser. 


YOU MUST BE 21 TO ENTER! ID Required 
Come out and celebrate 
before the Men's last 
home Basketball Gamel 
When: Wed. March 1, 5-7pm Where: Alumni-Senior Club What: SUBWAY subs for $1 
* Don't forget to bring your ID!!
* Don't miss the Door Prizes!! 

Wednesday, March l, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
TOM KEELEY 
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 
11-\tNKoF ITn!IS WA'(, You JUST HELPED RAISE' $50 THOVSANt:;, FOR Tt-\{;' 
1vll'5~1oN5[ 
BILL AMEND 
EEEEEEE­
HUHHHH 
EEEEEEE· 
HUHHHH... 

Painful charity. 
beam.1@nd.edu 

FOURTH AND INCHES 
:roe:., oo '{ov l'\\l-JO \~ ~ SOR~OW ll. ioW£L°2'. 
1: \\fl.VE.'t>l'T O0N£ M.'( 
U,VN01'.'( ~l:LE.NiL'I' 
Fox TROT 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Worrisome car sound 5 Rant and rave 1oPart of a Racine play 14 Patent prerequisite 15 Nintendo's Super ~ Bros. 16 Polo Grounds replacement 17 Start of a story? 
(1977) 20 Ring count 21 Some floor 
votes 22 Deem appropriate 23 Mitchell's plantation 24 Winter Palace resident 
PAIGE, ACTING

IF WE JUST Ac.T
01<, PAIGE, Wf.'vE Gol 11-lE 
NATURAL MEANS

NATURAL, EVERY·
CD IN YOUR PvRSE. NoW AU. 
BREATHIN6.

WE H~VE To Do 15 CAL.ML"!' 
1HtN6 WILL SE F1NE. 
WALK OUT oF lliE SToRE. 
\ 

-JO' I~1
~­

HOROSCOPE 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 1, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Dinah Shore, Ron Howard, Harry Belafonte, Alan Thicke, Trmo­thy Daly, Robert Bork, Roger Daltrey 
Happy Birthday: You've got your act together, and it's time to show everyone exactly what you have to offer. Your shrewd business sense will impress associates and col­leagues. You will be honest and straightforward, gaining popularity and a good reputation in your cho­sen field. This is a perfect year to move quickly, focusing on exactly what you want to accomplish. Your numbers: 7, 10, 27, 33, 41, 45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You can gain approval and get kudos, by asking for help and putting a little heart into your speech or request. Rewards, gifts or money from invest­ments, surrenders or taxes can be expected. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A 
change of attitude has probably dis­rupted your home environment. Ver­bal abuse may lead to walkouts or rash statements you may regret later. 
00000 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Red tape will be impossible to dear up Puzzle by Arthur S. Verdesca today. You may as well work on pro­jects that will allow you to make
29 Spooky 46 "Ah, me!" 51 Meanie 
progress. In-laws or relatives will 30 Eat at 47 Mongolian 52 Epsilon follower oppose your intentions. 000 31 Not as dotty expanse CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your 
33 Causing sticker 48 It's within your 
54 Some trial family is probably feeling neglected and unloved. You have been so busy
shock range evidence 
trying to figure out what to do next

34 Sling ammo 49 Put out 
55 Bart Simpson, that you've forgotten you're not 36 Bauxite yields it 50 False god alone.000
typically

37 Beer, at times LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Once again you find yourself having prob­
42 Numbers to 
lems with co-workers and employers.

crunch Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
EUGENIA LAST 

You are ahead of your time, and try­ing to stay in one spot is just asking too much. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may find yourself changing crowds. Boredom has led you in new and unique directions, which offer inter­esting friendships. 00000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will be emotional if you have been extravagant or let children or friends take advantage of you financially. You should channel your efforts into getting rid of bad habits. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Coarse language may cause you to want to get out of the house. You are better off visiting friends or relatives than entertaining at home. 0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21): This will be a difficult day to deal with co-workers. You are not likely to be treated well, and your boss may make it hard for you to do your work effectively. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
You can look into new jobs, but don't 
count on getting help from someone 
who may -have promised you assis­
tance. Financial limitations will have 
to be dealt with on your own. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
You won't get the reaction you want 
from your mate today. Intimate rela­
tionships with colleagues will lead to 
gossip that could easily affect your 
position. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You 
may divulge secret information with­
out realizing it today. Be cautious 
not to get involved in office chatter 
that will cause problems for others. 
0000 
are available by touch-tone phone:
43 Evening affair Birthday Baby: You will have a strong sense of who you are and what you 44 Some want to do from a very young age. Your ability to push yourself and your
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). showdowns Annual subscriptions are available for the beliefs will always put you in the limelight. You are sensitive toward others 45 Brooklyn best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
and therefore will be well-liked throughout your life. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com,
institute years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
eugenialastcom, astromate.com.) (0 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 
25 Flattering, in an oily way 
28 Nitty-gritty 
29 Director Craven 
32 Lofty abode 33 Take to the cleaners 
34 Flu fighters 35 More of the story? ( 1987) 38 Sooner city 39 Chablis sediment 40 Nomadic mob 41 U.S.P.S. employee's beat 42 The Carpenters, e.g. 43 Carpenter's need 44 Like many a cellar 45 It may be struck 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

NAST PLOW ITALY 
E T T E R A G A P E 
K O E 

R E E D O M A R S N A P S 
46 Cousin of a guinea pig 
49 Sal's canal 50 Dickens alias 53 End of the 
story? (1964) 56 Uncle of Enos 57 Labor leader's 
cry 58 Trading center 59 Peccadilloes 60 Photo finish 61 "Nolo," e.g. 
DOWN 1 Early Briton 2 Like some 
threats 3 Broadway brightener 4 Dentist's 
administration 5 like wet ink 6 Roberts or 
Tucker 7 Ogres 8 Hope/Crosby 
film destination 
9 Greek dish 10 Late bloomer? 11 Dish maker 12 Garr of "Tootsie" 13 Magi origin 18 Canine's coat 19 Sans ice 23 Simple chord 24 Goes like the 
dickens 25 Onetime cohort 
of Rather 26 Intended 27 Ava's second 28 Choral work 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

BASKETBALL • 

MEN'S Women's 
Ten IS 
vs. #9 Syracuse 9:00pm A I.. TODAY 
VARSITY SHOP

TONIGHT' 
¦ ,.... vs. # 11 Northwestern 4:00pm
Eck Tennis Pavilion 



Re-signing Rocker 
The Atlanta Braves signed controversial closer John Rucker lO a one-year deal Tuesday.
PORTS 
page 17 
O
THE 

page 28 BSERVER Wednesday, March 1, 2000 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Becker lives his coaching dream with Irish 
By TIM CASEY Sporrs Writer 
Hyan Becker stood on the Joyce Center court. talking with some coaches and players dur­ing water break at a recent practice. The women's basket­ball team had just finished another set of drills on a chilly aftl'rnoon in mid-F(•bruary and nePded a rest. Becker, a sopho­more anrl unpaid student assis­tant. movPd toward head coach Muffet Mr:Graw to ask her a question. Then, out of the corner of his eye, Becker noticed a familiar face. 
"I said to coach \1cGraw, That's Digger Phelps!'" Becker said excitedly. "And she looks at me and nonchalantly says, Yeah. It was unbelievable." 
Walking out through the tun­nel was Phelps, former Irish men's basketball coach, local resident and current ABC/ESPN college basketball analyst. Phelps headed out to McGraw. an old friend. and chatted for a few minutes. In the midst of their conversation, McGraw had a question for Phelps regarding a certain defense. She needed someone to act as an offensive player on an imaginary opposing team. 
Enter Becker. 

"We went over a 2-1-2 zone and I was in the corner witb the ball." Becker recalled. "Coach McGraw was asking [Phelps], If this guy slides up. what happens to him? It was unbelievable. There was me alongside Coach Phelps and Coach McGraw. Right afterwards. I ran right over to him and told him what I was doing." 
What Becker is doing has never been done here at Notre Dame. He's assisting with the women's baskAtball team, the No. 5 team in the nation. His duties indude everything from gathering film to finding male undergrads to scrimmage against the womPn to preparing fliers to lure recruits. He attends all practices, sits on the bench for all home games. He's living a dream. 
And enjoying every minute of it. "It's been a fun ride," Becker said. 
From super fan to coach 
The journey from fan to coach began a year ago during winter break. After his first semester at Notre Dame, Becker headed back to Philadelphia, his home­town. His sister, Caitlin, was serving as an undergraduate assistant at her school, Villa Joseph Mario, an all-girls Catholic high school in l Jolland. Pa. After picking her up from practice for a few days, Becker called Villa coach John Mcowen, asking if he could help with the team. Mcowen agreed. 
"I had no problem with it,·• McOwen said. "We likn to gAt new people to help out." 
Becker was no stranger to the Villa program. As a senior in high school. he would go with some friends to watch Caitlin play. A part of' the cheering ser­tion, Becker made himself known to McOwen. 
"They [Becker and friends] 
see W. B-BALL/page 18 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Seniors prepare for last game 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Assistant Spores Editor 
After sky-diving from elation and excitement with wins over Connectirut and Seton Hall to disappointment and discour­
agement with losses to Provi­dence and Miami. the N o t r e D a m e n1£'n's bas­ket b a 11 


team is Graves looking for a life jacket to prepare it for a 
bumpy ride against Syracuse. 
'Tm just telling them that we've bounced back before," Notre Dame head coach Matt Doherty said. "We lost two games ·in Pennsylvania and bounced back to beat Connecticut and Seton llall. Hopefully we can bounce back 
from these two losses." 
The Irish 123-2, 12-3) will need to be in top form to bnat the No. 9 Orangemen (16-12, 7-7). 

"It's been an emotional roller coaster throughout the year," sophomore forward David Graves said. "Every time we've hit a low spot, though, we've responded. I don't think we need to play a perfect game to beat Syracuse. I think we nerd to 
play a solid game." 
In the two tmuns' first meot­ing of the s1!ason, Syracuse ran over Notre Dame, 80-57. 
In their January victory over the Irish. the Orangemcn jumped into the lead in the second half with a 19-1 point scoring spurt, led by six 3­pninters. Sophomore Pn•ston Shumpert keyed the Orangemen's run with four 3­pninlt-1rs en route to a 26 point outing. 
"We just have to get out on their shooters, make sure that Shump11rt doesn't get hot and try to contain Etan Thomas," sophomore forward Troy Murphy said. 
Defending against outside 
see M. B-BALL/page 22 
Biolichini picks up big win over Dietrich 
By BILL HART Associate Spons Editor 

In one of the most heavily anticipated bouts of the evening, top seed Tom "The Tulsa Bomber" Biolchini defeated Tom "llow Ya Like Mc Now?" Dictrirh in a battle of two aggressive boxing styles in thn 175-pound divi­sion. 
Biolchini's agility, combined with an impressive reach, allowed him to press the bat­tle lo the gold corner early in the first round. Later on. fatigue set in and prevr.nted Dietrich l'rom taking advan­tage of opportunities early in 
BENGAL 
BOUTS ,,
-·­
the final round. 
The off-campus senior will look for a third title against Sorin junior ,Josh "The Sandman" Thompson, who erred on the side of' caution early before ending his fight against Steve "The Angry Pirate" Pfeiffer with a flurry of punches in the third. A comeback by Pfeiffor was only prevented by the sound of the final bell. 
see HEAVY/page 24 

vs. Northwestern Baseball at Pacific Coast Doubles at Pennsylvania\•=--::"'°:'"_., Today, 4 p.m. vs. Wake Forest rif La Jolla, Calif.
~--"" Saturday, I p.m. 
SPORTS ~·) • ·-,--) /4;
at Minneapolis, Minn. 
Friday-Sunday

Friday, 12: 15 p.m.
ATA 

vs. Syracuse vs. Michigan State Softball at Big East Tournament Today, 9 p.m. vs. Tennessee
Friday, 7:05 p.m. Storrs, Conn. 
. ;.,_.,-:

GLANCE ~ « Saturday, noon Sunday-Tuesday, TBA 




