



Tuesday 
NOVEMBER 28, 
2000 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Saf eRide faces 
scrutiny, new system likely 
By KIFLIN TURNER 
News \XIrite, 
The fate of SafeRide has reached a crossroads, the ver­dict being that the student run service is ineffective, unorganized and is rarely if at all used by the student body. 
Jay Smith, Student Body Chief of Staff said the pro­gram is currently under the process of being revamped that will include re-naming based on the negative stigma placed on it because of its inefficiencies in the past 
"It's unreliable; it's inconsistent; and so we're looking towards creating the same type of service which will be reliable and consistent and something that will be able to happen for years to come," said Smith. "We have to figure out ways to publicize it and make it fashionable again and that's one of the reasons we're looking into renaming." 
Past problems have been attributed to low worker turnouts as well as low student body participation. 
"The first time when I used it sometimes it took a long time, and I think that's maybe why students didn't use it. Honestly I forgot about it because I haven't seen anyone use it all year," said senior Nichole Meyer. "I think that the general perception was still that it was somewhat of a hassle." 
In the meantime, while the service is undergoing reconstruction, the concern over whether more students will choose to drive or walk home drunk could possibly become a pressing issue, however many students will go unaffected by its absence. 
see SAFE/page 4 

Gore contests Bush victory in Fla. 
was needlessly dragging out "You're always in some cri­did not immediately decide. The suit was brought by a 
Associated Press 
the contest and complicating sis." Barry Richard, the attorney group of Palm Beach the presidential transition. Gore lawyer Dexter Douglass representing Bush, said that Democrats who complainedTALLAHASSEE, Fla. 
"We can't continue to hold pressed for speed. by requesting a special master the ballot was so confusingAl Gore's lawyers contested the process up while he is in "We've got to move this to examine the contested bal­that they mistakenly cast votes
the certification of Florida's 
denial," said Rep. J.C. Watts, case," he said. "This case will lots the Gore campaign is for Pat Buchanan instead of
election in court Monday, 
R-Okla. be determinative in all proba­essentially asking for another Gore. They want a new elec­seeking an order to have him, Gore's challenge to the bility of the election." canvassing board. "The law tion in the county.
not George results in Palm Beach, Nassau One issue doesn't con­Secretary of State Harris, a
W. Bush, 
and Miami-Dade counties was which threat-temp I ate Bush supporter, certified
declared 
assigned to Circuit Judge N. ened to derail another Florida's decisive 25 electoral
winner of 
"We can't continue to
Sanders Sauls, known for his progress was recount," votes for the Republican on
the state 
swift action, and he held a a Gore team hold the process up while Barry said Sunday. If that stands up,
and there­
hearing Monday afternoon. request to after the Bush will become the next
he is in denial"
fore the 
Sauls ordered Gore's transport hearing. president.
presiden­
lawyers to provide the Bush some B.000 In another The U.S. Supreme Court 
cv. Rep. J.C. Watts 
team with its evidence and ballots from development. hears Bush's appeal against
.T h e y witness list within two days all three R-Okla. the Florida Florida hand counts Friday. It 
a c c u s e d Gore .and gave Bush's lawyers two counties to Supreme decided Monday not to let the
Florida 
days to respond -meaning Tallahassee Court asked proceedings be televised.
Secretary of State Katherine 
the case might not be heard in case they need to be exam­for legal briefs by 5 p.m. on Gore's Florida lawsuit seeks
Harris and election commis­
until the week's end. ined by the court. Tuesday on whether the jus­an injunction to prcven tsioners of misconduct for dis­Exhibiting a folksy Gore attorney David Boies tices should review the infa­Harris from declaring the win­allowing votes that might have demeanor, he told the lawyers suggested it might be neces­mous "butterfly ballot" case in ning presidential electors until 
overcome Bush's 537-vote 
he understood their difficulty sary for the judge to look at Palm Beach County. proceedings are cornpleted inlead. 
trying to get the case resolved the ballots, which Sauls called Rather than dismissing the the contest.
Gore, speaking publicly, 
before the Dec. 12 deadline for "an unappetizing prospect." matter on its face, they asked It asks the court to examineurged the court to look at the selection of Alectors. Boies said, "None of us can for arguments on "all issus in ballots and order recounts inchallenges raised in his law­"You're all trial lawyers and afford to fail here." this case including why this the three counties, and tosuit and "do the right thing." 
trial lawyers live a dreadful The Bush lawyers opposed court should exercise its dis­
But Republicans said Gore 
existence," the judge drawled. moving the ballots. The judge cretion" to hear the case. see GORE/page 4 
r 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, November 28, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Pains, Strains, and automobiles 
It is six o'clock in the evening and I am standing on the corner of Michigan Avenue, downtown Chicago, waiting in the cold and rain that feels like ice. 
Yes. waiting for the No. 145 bus that is 15 minutes late. In the time my friend and I have been Myra McGrlff waiting. five No. 151 buses have gone by. 
We don't take that bus 
because it goes to the zoo. News Writer 
The question I ask is who 
is going to the zoo in 20­
degree weather and why 
do they need five buses for it? 
But I continue to wait calmly and pretend that the wind chill is no big deal and all the people surrounding me like leeches is a pleasant feeling. I watched people armed with shopping bags, umbrellas and bad atti­tudes steal each others taxi cabs never utter­ing the words ·excuse me'. 
I never knew Chicago natives were so rude. I mean, I was standing almost in the gutter next to a planter, with passing cars splashing me with muck and all the while I have this rather large man trying to squeeze between the planter and me. 
With what seems like acres of room sur­rounding me this man chooses the tightest place to squeeze through and then gives me a crazy look when I refuse to step in the gutter to permit him to pass. 
After being knocked about, ogled by people with missing teeth and standing in the freez­ing rain, [ wanted to tell this man where to go. But no, with winter cheer I smiled and let him pass, just to be splashed by a passing cab. 
Oh yes, the bus came 10 minutes later and we all pushed and shoved ourselves on like cattle only to be greeted by limited seating. 
Like some survival of the fittest experiment people knocked down old women just to get the most coveted seat on the bus. I did not have to go to such extremes, but by this time I was prepared to do battle for a seat. 

I didn't dare close my eyes, so I was alert to the bizarre conversation going on between two people standing beside me. But to top it off something was dripping on me from some where, and all I wanted to do was scream. 
I managed to get back to my friend's house in one piece but definitely traumatized, bruised, and drained. The lesson being, don't go downtown unless you are wearing your combat boots and ready for hand to hand bat­tle. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Graphics Erin Piroutek Dana Mangnuson KiHin Turner Scene Myra McGriff Sam Derheirner 
Sports Chris Scott 
Kerri Smith Lab Tech 
Viewpoint Amanda Greco 
Kurt Bogaard Naomi Cordell 

The Obscrv<r (USPS 5'19 2-4000) is publishd Monday 1hrough Friday except during exam and v:u.:arion periods. The Observer is a mr-mber of lhe A,sociataf Pr,:s:;. All reproduction rlghr~ arc rescrVcd. 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK  
"If we were 9-2, you  "It's a diversity of  "Even though our  "Regardless ofthe  
are darn right I think  people. but you can  attendance from the  decisons on hand  
we deserve  see in their eyes it's  community has been  counts and pending  
to go."  all the same why  great, it was the first  law suits, the election  
they're there."  time in a while that  should end now. "  
Bob Davie  we truly felt the  
Notre Dame football  Junior Rachel Soltis  advantage ofplaying  Matt Loughran  
coach on the BCS before  on the School of  at home."  Notre Dame alumnus  
the big win over USC  Americas protest  Randy Waldrum women's soccer coach  
on victory over Harvard  

Compiled from U-Wire reports 

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
University program cracks down on fake IDs 
ANN ARBOR. Mich. minors. 
University of Michigan students, 
Thompson commended the project with tho help of computers, may be because it looks to punish minors who finding more crafty ways to duplicate are attempting to purchase alcohol ofiicial forms of identification, but bar rather than the drinking establish­owners and managers in Ann Arbor ments. As part of the project within say inferior lamination and missing the past year, undercover officers holograms still are major indicators positioned themselves near the door of a false identification card. of the local pub and ticketed those 
"A lot of people can make good fake who attempted to enter with false IDs. IDs with technology, but they can't Thompson said. laminate as well." said Jody "I think it's a good program Thompson, owner of a local bar. because if we get 1,000 people in this 
With many states now manufactur­bar, there's obviously some minors," ing all identification cards with holo­Project Spotlight, a program that he said. grams, an ID with no hologram is began in April of last year as an effort Those who check IDs at local bars 
another sign it may be fake, said local to work with establishments that sell look at the height and weight and also bar manager Dustin DeSnyder. liquor to train them in examining fake for fuzzy lettering, incorrect ink color, 
Local bars and restaurants have IDs. One goal of Project Spotlight is to the quality of the photo and the align­started to crack down more on transfer responsibility of underage ment of the information as additional minors and fake IDs since the start of drinking from bars and restaurants to indications of a fake ID. 
OKLAHOMA STATE UNIVERSITY 
Security to post sex offenders 
OKLAHOMA CITY 
The Oklahoma State University Police Department (OSUPD) will post, on its Web site, the names and pho­tos of all registered sex offenders enrolled or employed on campus if a proposed federal bill is enacted, said OSUPD Support Services Lt. Richard Atkins. The Campus Sex Crimes Prevention Act, which passed the 
U.S. Senate in October and which President Clinton said he will sign, would require states' Department of Corrections to keep a record of registered sex offend­ers who are employed by or attend a university, and then distribute that information to the campus and local police departments. "Once we have that informa­tion, we are going to have it on our Web site," Atkins said. "If someone does not have a computer, then they can come by here (the OSU police department)." Arizona Congressman Matt Salmon introduced the bill and said it would close a loophole in the 1996 Megan's Law, which requires states to notify community mem­bers about sex offenders living in their cities. 
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON 
Faculty claim sexual discrimination 
SEATTLE 

More than 1,000 University of Washington (UW) women professors could be a part of a discrimination lawsuit against the University, originally filed by five women professors in 1997. The suit claims that the University pays female professors less and gives them fewer promotions than their male counterparts. Originally filed by female professors in the dental and medical departments, it has now been expanded to include all UW women faculty employed since Aug. 18, 1994. The suit will include tenure and non-t enure female faculty at the UW's Seattle, Bothell and Tacoma campuses. According to the Seattle Post­Intelligencer, King County Superior Court Judge Glenna Hall ruled that the case could be expanded into a class-action suit. A trial date is set for January 2002. The Seattle P-1 reported that less than 25 per­cent of tenured faculty are women, while nearly 60 percent of the lower-paid, non-tenured faculty are women. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The AccuWeathe~ forecast for noon, Tuesday, Nov. 28.
AccuWeather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day 
H L 

Wednesday <J. 41 26 Thursday ~ 36 24 Friday Q 37 25 
·;· ·:• 

Saturday Q•:·,::=·,:::· 35 23 

@''""co D . CJ . D D 
H~h Low Showcra Rain T-a;lorma Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt Cloudy Cloudy 
Via A.u~rud Prt1U


Sunday (J. 33 23 
Atjanta 65 46 Las Vegas 69 45 Portland 53 44 Baltimore 53 35 Memphis 68 42 Sacramento 63 48 Boslon 50 38 Milwaukee 39 31 St. Louis 53 39

Q,~_Q9,Q.Q (f ~ u 
Chicago 43 35 New York 51 40 Tampa 75 52
Showars T-storms Ram Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt Cloudy Clo,,,dy 
Houston 74 55 Philadelphia 52 37 Washington DC 55 39
Via Associated Pf9SS GmphicsNet 
"" .......... 


1uesday, Novemeber 28, 2000 The Oburver . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ND boasts most black trustees 
experience on the Board thus Father Sorin. 
By NICHOLAS SWEEDO 
far. · In 1967, ownership of the 
News W'riter 
Warner agreed with Smith's University was passed to the 
assessment of the character of Board of Fellows, a board that 
The Journal of Blacks in the Board members. is part of the Board of Trustees. Higher Education recently sur­"The Notre Dame Board of Warner said that in 33 years,veyed the best universities in Trustees has at the center of the Board of Fellows has never America on the numbers of their concern the University of made a decision that was not African-American board of Notre Dame: its faculty, alumni unanimous. Today, University 
trustee members for each 
and staff -but most of all -President Father Edward respective University. the Notre Dame student," Malloy chairs the Board of 
Notre Dame topped the list as Warner said. Fellows. the University having the most They want nothing but the ln addition to owning the black trustees, with seven, best for their beloved alma University. they are responsibleincluding Angela Smith, the mater. and they want to sec for maintaining Notre Dame's newest African-American Notre Dame grow day by day to Catholic character, the appoint-
trustee, and Condolcezza Hice, a the full ment of trustees top adviser to Governor George stature of and control of W Bush in foreign affairs. t h e "Fortunately we have a University"The 13oard of Trustees is Catholic statutes and by­
significant amount of
comprised of 5:1 university laws that deter­individuals,"said Father Richard they know diversity regarding race, mine how the Warner. Counselor to the it to be and gender and university is 
President, Director of' Campus want it to organized and
professional careers . .,
Ministry and member of the become, administered. board since l 979·. "Fortunately. according Each trustee we have a significant amount of to Warner. Father Richard Warner is chosen to diversity regarding race, gender 
Although Board of Trustees member serve a three­
and professional careers." being year term, and
an 

Warner assured that the 
alumnus is the Board divNsity of the board resulted not a meets three not from intentionalJy trying to requirement to serve on the times a year. They form com­fill quotas but because the Board, Warner said about 90 mittees in Academic Affairs,
minority trustees were extreme­percent of all Board members Student Affairs, Finance, ly well-qualified. are alumni. The Notre Dame Investments, Social Values and 
"It's been amazing. I'm one of Board of Trustees, created in Responsibilities, and the two youngest trustees. y_et 1967, was the first bicameral Nominations and Governance. my opinion is valued and elicit­board in the nation. Before After meeting in committee, the 
ed. The quality of the people on 1967, the University was owned Board meets as a whole and the board is amazing," said by the Congregation of Holy presents general policy guide­Smith when asked about her Cross dating back to the time of lines to the Administration. 
~ 
American Heart Aa Association.V 

Fighting Heart Disease and Stroke 
ONE OF THESE CAN CHANGE A THOUSAND LIVES 
SUPPORT MEDICAL RESEARCH 
Cl 997, American Heart Association 

Hey, guess what?I 
IJII/I 

Notre Dame Federal Credit Union has a branch location on the campus of Saint Mary's College! Plus, there's an ATM in Le Mans Hall! 
Stop by and learn about the many benefits of membership. 
Campus Branch Hours Lourdes Hall Tuesday & Friday 11 a.m. -2 p.m. 
219/239-6611 www.ndfcu.org
'9 



Snite names Knoll associate director 
Special to The Observer 

Ann Knoll, former director of the Saginaw Art Museum in Saginaw. Mich., has been appointed associate director of Notre Dame's Snitc Museum of Art. 
Knoll's responsibilities in her new position will include grant writing, accounting and finance, and staff manage­ment. 
"We're looking forward to the leadership, expertise and organizational skills that Ann will provide during the com­ing years," said Charles Loving, director of the Snite. "As we seek to make dramatic changes in our collecting prac­tices, exhibition program and facility, we are fortunate to have someone of her high caliber as our associate director." 
Knoll, a graduate of the University of Michigan, holds an MBA degree from Western Michigan University in Kalamazoo. She has worked at the Saginaw Art Museum for seven years, having previously been branch director and associate curator of the Mississippi Museum of Art in Hiloxi and an administrator at Nazareth College in Kalamazoo, Mich. 
Palacios wins cancer research scholarship 
institutions in the Mid west. Special to The Observer 
The institute and Notre Dame have teamed to oper­
The Walther Cancer 
ate the University's Walther Institute of Indianapolis has 
Cancer Institute Center of 
awarded the Dr. Karl Excellence in Cancer 

Ruddell Scholarship for the Research. which focuses on 
2000-01 academic year to prostate and breast cancer Felipe Palacios, a doctoral with secondary emphasis on candidate in the Cell and bladder, ovarian and 
Molecular Biology Program endometrial cancer. 
at Notre Dame. Upon completion of his The Ruddell Scholarship is undergraduate degree from awarded annually to a stu­the University of Cayetano 
dent who shows interest and promise in cancer research and who has recently received or is pursuing a master's or doctoral degree in biomedical sciences or biomedical engineering, 
The Walther Cancer Institute is a nonprofit research organization affili­ated with several research 


0-HO 
Heredia in Lima, Peru. 
Palacios  worked  for  
Genzyme  Genetics  in  
Scottsdale, Ariz.  

Palacios has also conduct­ed research at the Institute of Tropical Medicine in Peru. 
Palacios entered Notre Dame's program in 1999 and now studies the cell biology of G-proteins. 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION
@ For People. Not for Profit. 
[H§fil

[IIIIU HOIS!NC 
LENDER lnuepend~nl of the University 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 28, 2000 

Gore 
continued from page l 
declare Gore the winner of' the electoral voles. 
Gore faulted Harris and election officials for fail­ing to acceµt partial recounts of' votes and, in one case, stopping the recounts. 
Gore's lawyers said in Lheir brief the refusal to hand count ballots and the certification of results that did not include uncounted ballots amount to "misconduct sufficient to change or place in doubt the result of the r.lection." 
In tho three-county con­test f1led by Gore, lawyers alleged that the vote totals reported to the secretary of' state Sunday were inac­curate. 
In Miami-Dade, Gore lawyers want a count of' the 10.000 votes they said could not be read by a voting machine and w·ere not hand-counted. 

In Nassau County, Democrats am seeking to add a recounted total that would give Gore 52 more votes. 
In that case, the county reverted to reporting its initial postelection total instead of a machine recount because some 200 ballots were inadvertently left out of the recount. 
Multiple problems were alleged in Palm Beach County where Harris refused to extend the 5 
p.m. Sunday deadline for hand counting and then rejected the partial count submiued. 
The brief said the final total, completed at 7:30 p.m.,. would have added 215 votes to the Democrat. 
Heyond that, the brief said some Palm Beach voters did not completely perforate their ballots. No allowance was made fur partially perforated or indented chads on the presidential votes unless similar dimples were seen in other races. 
In other legal 
developments: 
. 
Both sides agreed to move a lawsuit alleging Republican tampering with as many as 15,000 absentee ballots in Seminole County to the circuit court in Tallahassee because that's where the election was certified. The Gore team did noL make that complaint part of its own suit. 

. 
Still unresolved were state lawsuits filed by Bush on Sunday seeking to force Hillsborough, Okaloosa, Orange, Pasco and Polk counties to count a small number of reject­ed overseas absentee bal­lots. 

.The 
Rev. Al Sharpton's National Action Network filed a federal lawsuit in l\liami on behalf of three Miami residents. It says minority voters were dis­enfranchised because Bush was certified as the winner without a complet­ed Miami-Dade manual recount. 




SafeRide 
continued from page 1 
"I don't know of anything horrible that has happened because some­one walked homo or hitched a ride with someone else, but I think that it is something that could be helpful if it got up and going again" said Mever. 
'fhe recent car accidents outside of the Linebacker Lounge that have included hitting two Notre Dame students, alum Julia Gillespie, and senior Joe Steirer has raised atten­tion to the importance of SafeHide as a means of injury prevention. 
"Our fellow students are not always responsible and the absence of SafeRide may contribute to that 
but at the same time that type of behavior Axisted when SafeRide exjsted," said Smith. "To address the Linebacker situation specifically, historically rather. it is my belief that Safe Ride hardly ever went to the Linebacker because of the location, because of it being so close to cam­pus." 
Another concern is one that the Notre Dame administration may hold as well as other authori­behavior is a concern that will go into the restructuring of the pro­gram. 
"We don't want to condone stu­dent drinking and that's why we're trying to examine some of these dif­ferent routes and some of these dif­ferent places that the service might want tu go to in addition to the local establishments and off-campus housing," said Smith. 
However, members of the commu­nity see the service as potentially helpful to students who would oth­erwise make unwise decisions. 
"I think that it's a good safe mea• sure. but I just wish kids wouldn't abuse themselves to the point of not being able to w;e good judgements," said Lewis Hall rector Sister Annette George. "The best of' all worlds would be if people would go off-campus and come home 
not intoxi­

"[SafeRide is} some kind 
cat<id." said

ofenticement to be 
George.

irresponsible and not have Heccntly, incentives
to worry about how you're 
have been

getting home -I don't 
instituted to think that's improve worker par­
productive to growing up. " 
ticipation. With paid

Father Paul Doyle 
workers the 

Dillon Hall rector program has hoped that mea• 

ties in the Notre Dame community -this being the concept that SafeRide is a taxi service catering to drunken, underage students. 
"It's some kind of enticement to be irresponsible and not have to worry about how you're getting home -I don't think that's productive to growing up," said Dillon Hall rector, Father Paul Doyle. 
The idea of the service perpetuat­ing abusive and potentially harmful sures to professionals the service will increase accountability. 
'There was a lack of communica­tion in the efforts to professionals it last year and with the onset of this administration there was a lack of communication with the previow, administration about Saferide and whether or not it was running -in that sense, our omce was unable to ascertain numbers as far as partic­ipation," said Smith. 
a 

ARTHURANDERSEN 





Meet. Greet. And eat. 
Assurance 

Interested in a career at Arthur Andersen? Want an internship next 
Business Consulting 
summer? 
Corporate Finance eBusiness 

Join us at our "Meet the Firm!" event on November 28. We'll 
Human Capital 

present descriptions of what we do-in all our services. Come learn 
Legal Services 

about exciting opportunities at one of the world's leading
Outsourcing 

professional services firms. 
Risk Consulting Tax Services 

Meet the Firm Night! 
Auditorium Center for Continuing Education Tuesday, November 28 
6:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. 
Please bring an updated resume. And bring your appetite-we'll have pizza and refreshments! 
www.arthurandersen.com 
Note: The services offered in particular areas may depend on local regulations. In some locations. legal and/or tax services are provided by Andersen Legal, the international network of law firms that is associated with Andersen Worldwide SC. 
Arthur Andersen refers to the U.S. firm of Arthur Andersen LLP and other members of the Arthur Andersen global client servlce network. © 2000 Arthur Andersen. All rights reserved. 

ATION 
Tuesday, Nov~mber 28, 2000 COMPILED FROM TUE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Mexico's Fox seals cabinet:. 
Announcing the final part of his Cabinet Monday. President-Pleet Vicirnte Fox chose a tough army prosecutor as attorney general and a calm negotiator as interior secretary to smooth the feathers Fox plans to ruffie. As the top military prosecutor, Gen. Rafael Macedo ha.s taken a tou~h stance against army malcon­tents and fellow officers accused of drug smug­gling. Macedo's appointment as attorney gen­eral backs Fox's pledge to return "order and respect" to the country's law enforcement 
Palestinians fire on Gilo: Palestinians opened Gre on the Jevvish neighborhood of Gilu in east Jerusalem after nightfall Monday, shat­tering \Vhat had been a relatively quiet day, while Israeli Prime MinLc;tN Ehud Barak scram­bled to rescue his government from collapse. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Mutated gene linked to autism: 
Scientists have long theorized that about 15 dif­ferent genes play a role in who is born with the severe brain disorder autism -and now they've finally found one of those genes. A study of 57 autism patients round that 40 percent carry a mutated version of the HOXA1 gene. which plays a crucial role in early brain devel­opment, University of Rochester scientists reported Monday. The NlH called the finding a significant step in understanding what predis­poses people to developing autism. 
UNM hospital settles lawsuit: The University of New Mexico Hospital has paid $35 million to settle malpractice claims by parents or children treated there for leukemia, acknowledging the survival rate was lower than the national average, according to a newspaper report. Marilyn Duncan, who headed the pedi­atric oncology division at UN"M, was barred from seeing patients at the hospital. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Colleges offer seniors free courses: 
Two Indiana colleges are offering senior citi­zens the opportunity to take courses for free. Under the Senior Scholars program announced Monday, residents at least 60 years of age can enroll in college credit courses tuition-free at all Community Colleges of Indiana, Ivy Tech State College and Vincennes University campuses. The community college is a partnership between Ivy Tech and Vincennes University. Senior Scholars can choose from more than 2,000 courses. 
Market Watch 11/27 

Dow 
10,546.07 +75.84 


]ONES 
Composite Volume; 
N/A 
Nasdaq: 2880.49 -23.89 


S&P 500: 1348.97 +7.20 TOP5VOLUMELEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE INTEL CORP (lNTC) -tU.Ul +.0025 43.~4 ORACLE CORP (ORCU -4.!7 -1.00 23.12 WORLDCOM INC (WCOM) ,t.).lJ"i ;0,30 16,12 M !CROSOFT CORP (MSFT) +I.OR +0.75 70,69 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -l.73 -IAJ 51.25 
HAITI 


Associated Press 

PORT-AU-PRINCE 
Following a presidential election boycotted by all of Haiti's major opposition parties, apparent winner Jean-Bertrand Aristide denied opposition claims that he would squelch democracy and said his opponents would be wel­come in his government. 
Appearing Monday at his first news conference since 1994, the former president did not explicitly declare victory, but he spoke as if he had been declared presi­dent. 
"There will be a place for everyone in my govern­ment," Aristide said. "To have a peaceful Haiti, the opposition is indispensable ... It is part of our democra­tic fate." 
Asked if he planned to become president for life, the former Catholic priest said: "It is not in my agen­da." 
Opposition parties that boycotted the presidential vote, meanwhile, claimed that Aristide has no man­date to govern because most Haitians did not vote. 
Opposition leader Herve Denis said the coalition of all major opposition parties that urged voters to shun the polls would create "a peaceful alternative" to the government of Aristide and his Lavalas Family party. 
Denis, a former ally of Aristide, refused to elabo­rate. But it seemed Haiti's floundering democracy could remain locked in a fight for power that has stymied development and foreign aid and left many Haitians as poor and hun­gry as ever. 
Speaking to a crowded room of journalists, Aristide described the election as a victory for democracy. 
"We observed a huge majority of the Haitian peo­ple yesterday expressing their right through their vote," he said. "I am ready to hear what the electoral council will give as a result." 
The electoral council dis­puted claims of a low turnout and said 60.5 per­cent of more than 4 million registered voters participat­ed. In some areas, they said, every registered voter participated. 
"They are hallucinating," Denis countered. "The elec­tion was illegitimate. Aristide does not have a mandate to govern. The people's abstention means they refuse to be governed by Lavalas." 
INDIA 

Prime Minister calls for cease-fire 
India's Jammu-Kashmir state stood A line of control agreed to by India
Associated Press 

guard in sandbagged bunkers, obser­and Pakistan in 1972 divides Kashmir SRINAGAR vation towers and along the moun­between the two South Asian nations. 
India put a cease-fire into effect in tainous frontier with Pakistan. The India controls two-thirds and Kashmir late Tuesday night, ordering two countries have fought two wars Pakistan thB remainder. But both its soldiers not to fire on separatist over predominantly Muslim Kashmir. have claimed the entire Himalyan ter­guerrillas except as a last resort if Helmeted soldiers with machine­ritory. attacked. guns slung over their shoulders I.ndia alleges Pakistan arms and 
The unilateral cease-fire during the silently patrolled the streets of funds Islamic separatists who operate Islamic holy month of Ramadan was Srinagar, the state's summer capital. from Pakistani territory. Pakistan called by Prime Minister Atal Bihari "We will sincerely go out of our way says it provides them moral, but not Vajpayee in a bid to end an 11-year to see that the cease-fire is imple­material support. insurgency by Islamic separatists that mented," said Gurbhachan Jagat, the Vajpayee's offer on Nov. 19, for a has cost more than 30,000 lives. state's police chief. "The people's cease-fire during Ramadan was met 
An estimated 600,000 soldiers and desire for peace is getting stronger with threats of stepped up attacks by thousands of other security forces in and stronger." several Muslim guerrilla groups. 
page 6 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, November 28. 2000 
INDONESIA 
Flooding, landslides wreak havoc 
Associated Pres; 
JAKAHTA 

Landslides and floods havr killed at le,1st 119 people on Indonesia's Sumatra island, officials said Monday. 
Hescue workers believed dozens more were buried alive after four days of' Lurrcntial rain trigger.ed landslides throughout the region. 
"There are reports of land­slides everywhere," said Jual 
Effendi,  head  of  West  
Sumatra's search  and  rescue  
agency.  

Some food aid had reached the worst-affected ar(ms in the provinces of West Sumatra and Aceh on the island's northern half. But relief work­ers said blocked roa,ds and continuing rains were hamper­ing rescue efforts. 
"We am looking for sur­
vivors. but we fear there will only be corpses," said student volunteer Nanang Farid Sy,Lm. 
Floods have also swamped major towns in the region. about 625 miles northwest of the nation's capital. Jakarta. Power and tclrphone lines in Aceh's capital. Banda Aceh, have been swept away, leaving thousands ol' people in the town without electricity, the Kornpas newspaper said. 
The province of 4.1 mil­lion people has been tho scene of a bitter war between government troops and sepa­ratists who want to set up an independent nation on the northern tip of Sumatra island. 
Large parts of Padang, -J.70 miles to the south of Banda Aceh, also were under as much as tllree yards of water, 

TANZANIA 
Mandela urges Burundi agreement 
Associated Press 
ARUSHA 

Former South African President Nelson Mandela failed Monday to persuade Burundi's president to accept /\frican peacekeepers to guar­antee stability during a tran­sition period meant to end seven years of civil war in the central African country. 
Mandela. who has worked for more than a year to bro­ker a peace deal for Burundi, met over the weekend with representatives of Burundi's government. the army and Hutu and Tutsi parties to dis­cuss a cease-fire and the leadership of a transitional government. 

He had also summoned Burundian President Pierre Buyoya to Tanzania to discuss installing peacekeepers from Kenya, Uganda, South Africa, Mozambique, Botswana and Malawi, as well as Burundian soldiers. during the transition to peace, said Mark Bomani, head of Mandela's negotiation team. 

witnesses said. 
Landslides in Indonesia are frequently caused by mon­soonal rain in areas where land has been weakened by deforestation. 
Floods and landslides killed more than 100 people last month in Indonesia's main island of .Java. 
PAKISTAN 

Bombs explode in bus stop, crowded market 
Associated Press 

LAHORE 
Three bombs exploded iu eastern Punjab province Monday, killing a 4-year-old child and injuring at least 24 other people, police said. 
Two bombs went off within minutes of each other at a bus stop in the Badamibagh neigh­borhood of Lahore, the Punjab provincial capital. Fourteen people were hurt, they said. 
The third bomb ripped through a crowded market in Muridke. some 18 miles north­west of Lahore, killing one per­son and injuring 10 others. 
A 4-year-old boy lost both legs in the explosion and later died, doctors said. 
No one has claimed responsi­bility for the series of explosions. 
Police suspect the bombs in Lahore were hidden in luggage that had been abandoned. Fire and smoke billowod from burn­ing vehicles, witnesses said. 
"People were running and screaming. I don't know who knocked me down but someone ran into me. My legs were on fire," said Mohammed Ashraf. who. like many of the victims, suffered burn injuries. 
In Muridke, the bomb was apparently hidden beneath a horse-drawn cart in the middle of a bazaar selling secondhand clothing and household goods, said Jan Mohammed, 40. 

AP 

Mohammed. who suffered burns to his fac11 and legs, said he was knocked unconscious and awoke in a Lahore hospital. 'T don't remember anything after hearing a loud noise," he said. 
Muridke is also the headquar­ters of one of the larger Kashmiri militant groups. Lashkar-e-Tayyaba. 
Police said there was no immediate connection betwticn the explosion and the militant group, but an investigation was underway. 
There ·have been a series of bomb explosions in major cities throughout Pakistan in recent months, causing dozens of casu­alties. 
Pakistan routinely blames the explosions on uneasy neighbor India. 
The Keough Institute for Irish Studies 
University of Notre Dame 
Presents a lecture 
History as Myth The Return ofthe Hero 
By 
~ 

Breand8n O Buachalla 
The Visiting O'Donnell Chair in Irish Studies 
7:00 P.M. 

November 29, 2000 McKenna Hall Auditorium (CCE) 
The phenomenon of the 'sleeping hero' seems to be a universal theme in folklore and mythology, Arthur in Britain, Charlemagne in France, Barbarossa in Germany being the best known reflexes of this ubiquitous myth. In this O'Donnell lecture Prof. Breandan O Buachallla studies the Irish evidence as reflected in Irish folklore and literature and locates the Irish versions of the myth in their historical context. 
Breandan 6 Buachalla is the leading expert in the literature and ideology of early modern Ireland. He has published widely on the impact of the Counter-Reformation on Irish political thought, on early modern historiography, on the cult of the Stuarts as reflected in Irish literature, and on Jacobite rhetoric and ideology. The University of Notre Dame and The Keough Institute for Irish Studies are delighted to have Breandan 6 Buachalla as this year's O'Donnell Chair for Irish Studies. 


Tuesday, November 28, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Ford issues 5th recall on Escape 
Associated P re,s 
DETROIT 

For the fifth time in a little over a year, Ford Motor Co. told its dealers either to pro­hibit sales or test-drives of its new Escape sport utility vehi­cles while they're checked for safety-related problems. 
The latest notice. tu dealers was sent Nov. 18, affecting 51,022 Escapes and about 24,000 Mazda Tributes, which share basic parts with the Escape and are built in the same plant in Claycomo. Mo. Of those, 27,516 Escapes and about 12.500 Tributes have already been sold. 
Ford spokesman Mike Vaughn said dealers were told to check for damaged wind­shield wiper link ball sockets and replace them il' necessary. Ir the sockets were improperly built, thP wipers could stop working. Parts to fix the prob­lflm "are in the pipeline" to dealers, Vaughn said. 
Previous warnings to deal­ers on the Escape and Tribute, both of which only went on the market in August, have included warnings about the steering wheel coming off. leaky fuel lines, incorrect wheel hubs and a problem with the cruise control that could cause the throttle to 
,RETIREMENT INSU.RArt_CE MUTUAL FUNDS "TfUfSl SER\f,IHS: ~TUITION FINANtiN~ 
Why is TIAA-CREF the #1 choice nationwide? 
Th_e TIAA-CREF 

Advantage. 
·fear 1n and year out, employees Jt education and research institl'tions hr1ve tumed to TIAA-C Rff And for good reasons: 
• 
Easy diversification 2mong a range of experti/ managed fund; 

• 
A solid history of performanc9 and excep~ional personal service 

• 
A strong commitment to low expenses 

• 
Plus. a full range of flexible retirement income options 


For decades, TIAA-CREF has helped professors and staff at over 9,000 campuses across the country invest for­and enjoy-successful retirements. 
Choosing your retirement plan provider is sir:iple. Go with the leader: TIAA-CREF 
Ensuring the future for those who shape it.'M 

For more complete information on our securities products. please call 1.800.842.2733. ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them 5arefully before you invest. • TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Ser1ices. Inc. distributes the CREF and T!AA Real Estate variable annu1t1es. • 1eachers Persona! Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personol Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tu1t1on savings agreernen_ts • TIAA and TIAA·CRH life Insurance Co., New York, NY. issue insurance and annuities • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. 
• Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guarameed. © 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03 
about 6 percent of Escapes to "Our philosophy is to be affected. 
constantly monitor the
"It is a 

performance ofour
brand new vehicle, and vehicles, and when we sometimes 
see an issue we move 
in the 
quickly."
launch minor product 
Mike Vaughn 
problems 
Ford spokesman
erupt," he said. "Our 

TI1E TIAA-CREF ADVANTAGE 
:nvestment Expertise 

1.800.842.2776 
wvvw. tiaa-cref. org 
when we sec an issue we move quick­ly." Vaughn said. 
Jim I!all. an analyst with AutoPacific, said the notices cut both ways with cus­tomers. While the recalls could hurt 

Biotech company limits gene-altered corn 
. Firm acts in 
response to consumer concern 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Amid growing uneasiness about genetically engineered crops, a major biotechnology company announced Monday it would restrict plantings next yea.r of a type of gene-altered corn and delay commercializa­tion of another variety until 2002. 
The moves by tho Monsanto Co. are meant to avoid upset­ting export markets for U.S. corn and repeating the prob• !ems encountered this fall when biotcch corn developed by one of its competitors appeared in the food supply without being approved for CropScience,
human con­"We can't stop the 
in taco shells sumption. development ofthis in the Unitr.d "We can't 
technology, but we are States. 
stop the 
StarLink was 
development going to use restraint." approvedof this tech­only for ani­nology, but 
Hendrik Verfaillie mal feed or 
we are going industrial
Monsanto Company president
to use restraint." said Hendrik Verfaillie, Monsanto's president and chief executive officer. 
A variety of corn developed by Monsanto to be resistant to the company's popular Roundup weedkiller will be dis­tributed for sale next year only to farmers in areas where grain is seldom sold for export, Verfaillie said. The corn is approved for food use in both the United States and Japan but not in Europe. Traces of the corn were found this fall in British-made tortilla chips. 
The second Monsanto corn variety, which won't be put on the market until 2002, is toxic to an insect pest. the corn root­worm. It is yet to be approved 

Pucker uy, calendar Boy 
.U/2th cfove, 
Jrom U 
"Taking the clarinet 
where few have gone " 
The Philadelphia 
Inquirer 

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2000 
7:30 PM • LITTLE THEATRE 
For ticket information contact the 2 84 4 6 2 6 
in either Japan or Europe. 
The actions announced Monday don't affect Monsanto's most popular gene­altered crops, which include Roundup-resistant soybeans and cotton and a variety of corn that is toxic to another pest, the European corn borer. 
A representative of the National Corn Growers Association, which is especially concerned about losing sales to Japan. praised Monsanto's moves. "We could not jeopar­dize our biggest corn market by supporting the commercial• ization" of a corn variety that was not approved by that coun­try, said Susan Keith, senior director of public policy fur the growers group. 
The biotechnology industry was rocked this fall by the dis­covery of Starlink corn. devel­oped by Aventis 
use because 
of unre­
solved ques­tions about its potential to cause allergic reactions. 
U.S. corn exports have fallen sharply this fall, especially to Japan, the biggest foreign cus­tomer for the grain. 
Critics both inside and out­side the biotech industry say Starlink, the only gene-altered crop not allowed in food, never should have been put on the market without being approved for human consumption. 
The Environmental Protection Agency is holding a public meeting Tuesday on a request by Aventis to approve StarLink temporarily for food use to avoid further food recalls. 
Saint Mary's College Box: Office at ­
stick. 
Although sales of the Escape began in August, some dealers had small numbers of the vehicle in their lots since October 1999 which were used f'or test-drives. 
Vaughn said this was the first Escape notice that had involved a large number of vehicles already sold to con­sumers. He said the wind­shield wiper problem was found through warranty claims, and that Ford expects leading the list. The company also announced in April that it would pay for failing bead gaskets on about one million 3.8-litcr V6 engines built in the early to mid-1990s. 

Ford executives have said recalls are acceptable to the company as a way of improv­ing relations with customers, a prime directive of Ford CEO Jae Nasser. 
"Our philosophy is to con­stantly monitor the perfor­mance of our vehicles, and 
goal is to correct them quick­
ly." 
One industry expert said Ford doesn't appear Lo have been penalized by customers for the recalls so far -but could be if more come soon. 
Ford has seen its share of high-profile recalls this year, with the recall of 6.5 million Firestone tires on Ford trucks Ford's imuge with potential buyers, they could also improve relations with Escape owners in the first 90 days, when automakers survey cus­tomer satisfaction. 

"If you have a problem and its not addressed, you're rated poorly," Hall said. "If you have a problem and it is addressed, they remember it well." 


page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, November 28, 2000 
Citizens question election fiasco 


body's time and he's starting doing what he's doing. 
Associated Press to come off like a big cryba­Presidents are supposed to 
by," said Taylor, 45, an IBM act confident so he's acting 
Becky Bretz has raised employee from Bush's home­confident and saying, 'I'm three kids in Evansville, Ind., town of Austin, Texas. right. 1 should be president.' and she's sure of two things: Manhattan students Recd But at the same time it's so George W. Bush won the Burton and Joel Johnstone close that it's natural for presiden-watched Gore to say, 'Hold on a sec­cy. and Al 
t h e ond,"' Lemke said. Gore is speech But others said Gore is not set­while eat­holding on too long. "It's a ting a ing pizza sad thing but you can't go g o o d in a back and reinvent the wheel. example eighth­It's done. It's over. I think by refus­floor resi­Mr. Gore should concede," ing to dence-hall said Syracuse, N.Y., lawyer concede. lounge James McGinty, pausing in a 
"I don't Bush a n d downtown atrium on his way think it's agreed back to his office for a meet­teaching the kids anything," only that ing. the 42-year-old receptionist they liked the pizza. At American Barber said Monday as she waited Burton, 18, of Augusta, Studios in Concord, N.H., on an Evansville corner for Ga.• objected to Gore's sug­Jackie Kenvon took a her children to take her to gestion that he wanted to moment from" cutting Peter lunch. "We try to teach kids, unite Americans: "The entire Greene's hair to say that don't be a sore loser, or time Gore has not been about Bush was right to claim vic­whatever. It's time for the uniting people. He simply tory. Gr.eene agreed: "I think country to get on with busi­lifts that line from George W. Gore should give up and say ness." Bush." good luck to Bush." 
It is time. she said. "for Johnstone, 22. from The vice president, said the Gore to say, 'I've done my Milwaukee, complained that 21-year-old bank worker. is best."' Bush was being presumptu­"putting a negative aspect on 
Hold on. said George ous in claiming the presiden­the presidency" and should Belcher. "As a poor laborer, I cy. try again in four years. just have more faith in "It makes me angry that Waiting his turn in the Gore," said the 63-year-old somebody at this ambiguous chair. Dick Kendall, 63, native of Honduras, a hotel stage of the election would agreed that Bush was the housekeeper in Boston. come forward and say Tm winner. "The votes have 
A new citizen. he has no president,"' he said. "I think been counted three times faith in the Florida results. that's un-American." now and they all come out 
"That result is no good. Not everyone feels so the same," he said. That's a racket down there," strongly. Earlier in the day, But they haven't counted he said. R i c k enough, 
Three weeks after they Prowell, 39, said Mary
"ft makes me angry that 
voted, Americans continued an electric Clark, a to debate an issue that has lineman somebody at this nurse care never before been an issue digging for assistant in 
ambiguous stage ofthe 
-at least in their lifetimes: equipment Detroit.
election would come
Who is the president-elect? in his truck "I feel More specifically, should Al in Little forward and say t h e y Gore fight on, or concede? Rock, Ark., should
Tm president."'
Six in 10 said he should quit, said he had count all of according to an ABC News­no strong the ballots. Washington Post poll con­opinion. Joel Johnstone People ducted Sunday night. "I guess college student voted in 
Conversely, can Bush legit­Bush does the elec­imately consider himself have a tion and elected president? legitimate right to the presi­those votes should be count­
Yes, said Tommy Taylor, dency, but if I was in Gore's ed. Otherwise, it's like saying who watched Gore's tele­place, I'd probably be doing [those] votes didn't mean vised speech Monday night at the same thing he is," he nothing," she said. the Raleigh-Durham said. Tery Williams, a Detroit International Airport in On the outside deck of the lawyer, said Gore should North Carolina. "If I was in campus Free Speech Cafe at "push it all the way," and she his shoes, I'd be shrugging the University of California at was surprised that polls said my shoulders, and asking Berkeley, history major Ben 60 percent felt otherwise. myself, 'How many times do I Lemke had the same relaxed "Those people need to give have to win this thing?"' attitude. it a rest until Jan. 1," she 
Gore's "wasting every-"I think Bush is right in said. 


Planck's Constant and the Constants ofPhilosophy 
Stanley L. Jaki 
AHwigarian-bom Catholic priest ofthe Benedictine Order, is Distinguished Uuiversily Professor at Seton Hall University, South Orange, New Jersey. With doctorates in thC1Jlogy and physics, he has for the past forty years specialized in the history and philosophy ofscience. The author of almost fony books and over ahundred anicles, he served as Gifford Lecture~ at the University of Edinburgh and as Fremantle Lecturer at Balliol College, Oxford. He has lectured at major universities in the United Slates, EW'Ope, and Australia. He is honorary member ofthe Pontifical AcademyofSciences, membre correspondant ofthe Academic Nationale des Sciences, Belles­Lettres et Ans ofBordeaux, and the recipient ofthe Lecomte du Nouy Prize for 1970 and ofthe Templeton Prize for 1987. 
4pm, Tuesday, November 28 Hesburgh Library Lounge 
Sponsored by the Jacques Maritain Center 
U.S. fears ColoIDbian drug operations 
Among those are Venezuela,
Associated Press 
Brazil and Panama. Pickering said, adding that that theWASHINGTON spillover could jeopardize theA top official said Monday the sharp reduction in drug traffick­Clinton administration plans to ing in Peru and Bolivia.
augment efforts to deal with the The United States does notpossibility that Colombian drug envision a regional anti-drug
traffickers will transfer their 
alliance among these countries,activities to neighboring coun­but rather a series of bilateraltries as Colombia develops more 
assistance programs aimed at
effective ways to crack down on strengthening their counterdrugthe narcotics trade. 
capabilities. Pickering said. 
The State Department's third The administration lost a key
ranking official. Thomas 
supporter recently when HousePickering, said attention to this 
International Relations
issue will be a "centerpiece" of Committee chairman Benjamin
the administration's coun­
ternarcotics assistance requests 
Gilman. said officials made a next year. 
"major mistake" in shifting most Pickering told a news confer­countcrnarcotics assistance fur ence that bipartisan support for 
Colombia from the police to the the existing $1.3 billion pro­
military. gram, directed mainly at Gilman said the Colombian Colombia. ensures that the Army "is incapable" of control­counterdrug effort will contmue ling any of the guerrilla-and 
regardless of who is elected. coca-infested areas of southern 
"The issue of spillover is real," Colombia now or anytime soon. said Pickering, who spent two Pickering said the Colombian days in Colombia last week. police continue to perform a along with Gen. Barry major role. 
Mccaffrey, head of the White But, he said, they cannot carry House narcotics control office. out their mission without the 
Pickering said drug operations additional security protection of have spilled into Colombia the military "as they go about because highly effective coun­destruction of laboratories, terdrug operations in Peru and manual and aerial spraying Bolivia forced traffickers to eradication of crops and inter­relocate. As a result, production diction of the movement of in Colombia has soared, he crops." noted. Another critic, Sen. Paul 
The U.S. goal, he said, is to Wellstone, plans to fly to strengthen countries where Colombia on Tuesday for an traffickers already operate or assessment of the administra­that may be future targets. tion strategy. 

Happy 21st Bi rt ndayI Baby Sin! 
Boozer, Megan & Mario 
O WVFI Sports Present... 

December 5: December 9: Men's Basketball
Men's Basketball Notre Dame vs. Miami
Notre Dame vs. Indiana 
12:00 p.m.
9:00 p.m. 

December 8: December 9: Hockey
Hockey Notre Dame vs. M1am1
Notre Dame vs. Miami 
7:05 p.m.
7:05 p.m. 

Sports Broadcasting from a student perspective ... http:/ /wvfi.nd.edu 
Tuesday, November 28, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
YUGOSLAVIA 
Yugoslav tanks approach NATO-patrolled boundary 
wounded in the contested area The crisis also has cast Associated Press 
Sunday but gave no further doubt on NATO's ability to 
details. The ethnic Albanians control Kosovo. which the 
BUJANOVAC declared their own, unilateral Yugoslav authorities believe 
Yugoslav's army sent tanks ceasefire Friday, but it expires was used as a staging area for and reinforcements near the at midnight Sunday. the ethnic Albanian attacks. NATO-patrolled boundary with The crisis erupted last week The attacks were carried out Kosovo on Sunday, one day when militants believed to be by the so-called "Liberation 
before Yugoslavia's deadline operating from Army of for NATO to crack down on 
heavily ethnic Presevo, 
ethnic Albanian militants Albanian ''They are terrorists and Med v e dj a whose attacks have inflamed 
Kosovo killed a n d
bandits and will be 
the region. the Sflrb Bujanovac."
Kosovo is a provi.nce of policemen and treated as such." The rebels Serbia, Yugoslavia's main 
seized key want to republic, but it has been under positions just drive Serb
Vladan Batie
international control since last 
across the forces from
Kostunica ally
year and many residents want houndarv from the Prescvo full indl'!pendence. In the the NATO­Valley, the three-mile buffer zone p at r o 11 e d adjacentbetween central Serbia and province. Serb region, and unite it with 
Kosovo, attacks by indepen­
Their action provoked a Kosovo. dence-minded militants last major crisis for the new gov­Although the area has a sub­week left at least four Serb ernment of Yugoslav President stantial ethnic Albanian popu­
policemen dead. 
Vojislav Kostunica, which took lation, the valley was not con­Yugoslav authorities set a power last month after the col­sidered part of Kosovo and Monday afternoon deadline for 
lapse of Slobodan Milosevic. therefore was not included in 
NATO to clear out the mili­
The offensive could undermine the June 1999 agreement tants from the boundary Kostunica's rule by portraying which sent NATO peacekeep­region. They have threatened him as incapable of dealing ers into the province. to launch counterattacks after with ethnic Albanian extrem­On Sunday, Yugoslav army
the deadline passos. 
ists. However, if Serb police T55 battle tanks and armored In Kosovo, the local televi­
light back with massive force, personnel carriers could be 
sion station reported that one 
they risk a serious incident seen maneuvering near the ethnic Albanian righter was with NATO. buffer zone separating Kosovo 
from the rest of Serbia. The 
-reinforcements were kept away from the zone under terms of a June 1999 agree­ment between NATO and the Milosevic government which bars heavy weapons from the buffer area. American troops patrol the Kosovo side of the zone. Nevertheless, the presence of additional tanks, armored personnel carriers and infantry was seen as a demon­stration of Belgrade's resolve to prevent ethnic Albanian rebels from seizing and hold­ing Serbian territory. "They are terrorists and bandits and will be treated as such," said Vladan Batie, a leading Kostunica ally who vis­ited the area Sunday. "It is the task of every responsible state to protect its citizens." In a report obtained Sunday by The Associated Press, the Yugoslav Interior Ministry estimated that about 1,000 ethnic Albanians were involved in the recent attacks and were receiving support from ethnic Albanian sympa­thizers in nine villages on Serb-controlled territory. 
Yugoslav officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the militants had smug­gled small artillery pieces and more than 100 small mortars across the U.S.-patrolled boundary into positions on the Yugoslav side of the demilita­rized zone. 
The Interior Ministry report said Serb police "cannot hold out long unless they receive reinforcements from Serbia proper." It recommended mobilizing Serb men of mili­tary age and using them to augment police units already in the area. 
In Buj an ovac . one of th e towns in the contested area, Mayor Stojanca Arsic blamed tho attacks on the Kosovo Liberation Army, the ethnic Albanian rebel group which fought Yugoslav forces in Kosovo last year but which NATO says has been disband­ed. lie urged NATO peace­keepers in Kosovo to "really disarm the supposedly demili­tarized Kosovo Liberation Army" and prevent more weapons from reaching the buffer zone. 

Ireland Chile Germany England France 


• International Internship/Teaching Position Informational Session ... sponsored by SIBC 
.Y. WHERE? Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business 
• WHEN? Wednesday, November 29, from 7-9pm 
page IO Tuesday, November 28, 2000 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
This Week in Campus Ministry 

Monday-Friday, November 27-Oecember 1 
Hesburgh Library 
Sign-up, Notre Dame Encounter 
Retreat #64 (Feb. 9-11, 2001) 
Monday-Tuesday, November 27 -28 
11 :30 pm-10:00pm 
St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Tuesday, November 28, 7:00 p.m. 
Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, November 28, 7:00 p.m. 
Siegfried Hall Chapel 
Confirmation-Session #6 
Wednesday, November 29, 7:30 p.m. 
Campus Ministry. Badin Hall 
Conversation on 
Religious Life for Women 
For info, please call Sr. Sue Bruno, OSF at 631-5740 
Wednesday, November 29, 10:00 p.m. 
Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Friday-Saturday, December 1-2 
Fatima Retreat Center 
Marriage Preparation Retreat #2 
Friday-Saturday, December 1-2 
Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Freshman Retreat #32 
Sunday, December 3 
First Sunday of Advent 
Sunday, December 3, 1 :30 p.m. Keenan-Stanford Hall Chapel 
Spanish Mass Presider: Fr. John Steele, c.s.c. 
Sunday, December 3, 7:15 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Advent Lessons and Carols 
Monday, December 4, 7:00 p.m. 102 Earth Sciences Building 
Basilica Community Choir Rehearsal 
December 4-January 22 103 Hesburgh Library 
Sign-up, Freshmen Retreat #3 (Jan. 26-27, 2001) All dorms welcome 

0MPU5 
l\/11NISTRY 
112 Badin Hall 631-5242 
103 Hesburgh library 631-7800 
email ministry.1@nd.edu 
web www.nd.edu/~ ministry 
March 2001 Coleman-Morse Center 

Admittedly, Advent can strike the modern .sensibilities as something out of seep, an awkward resistance to the festive holiday spirit which begins, at the very latest, on the day after Thanksgiving. Everyplace else Christmas is announced with greater or lesser dignity, but in church we can seem to be scuck in a sort ofsemi-Lent with the 
somber tones of "O Come, 0 Come Emmanuel" to keep us company till rhe poinsettias finally show up on the alrar for Midnight Mass. It is a fair question: Advent ... what's the point? 

The layers ofAdvent give us a window into the thinking and spirit ofour ancestors in the faith. Various clans ofthe ancient Catholic family tree have had their say. Ancient Gallican, Spanish, Roman and even some Germanic influences have shaped the season. Today Advent is dominated by two figures and two themes. 
Advent opens with the fairly scary John the Baptist. He ears grasshoppers and wild honey. He lives in the wilderness and dresses in the pelts of beasts. His message is fiery and to the point. Repenr! Change your life. Get ready. The Messiah is coming. The point of Advent is to remind us that chis world is 
...in church we can ~eem to be fleeting and co prepare for the world rhat is to come. 
There is a slightly penitential undertone to Advent, 
stuck in asort of ~emi-lent with in its penance services, in it deep violet vestments, 
linens and candles. Advent is a call ro Christians to
the iomber tone~ of "O Come, 0 
get our spiritual houses in order, even as we deck 
Come Emmanuel" to keep mcom­our halls. pany till the poimettia~ finally ihow 
The second figure ofAdvenc could not be more con­trasting. Mary, pregnant with Jesus, holds a secret
up on the altar for Midnight Mai\. 
in her heart and the Impossible in her womb. She is the First Disciple who has said yes to che Lord, buc is waiting to learn all that chis could mean. We latter-day disciples wait in joyful hope and anticipation with Mary as the Lord continually reveals to us the meaning and direction ofour discipleship. 
Advent is as deep as the commercial season can be superficial. Outmoded, Medieval, and our of sync? Perhaps. But, it bears within it the essential stuff no Christian life can do without-reflection on a two thousand year old story, our openness to the Lord and to his call, and the eternal home for which we are all in preparation. 
Ever wonder why we a~ Catholiu do what we do or believe what we believe? Pleaie 1end m your que1tiom, commenn and rngge~tiom to mini1try.1@nd.edu. 
'1 

RCIA Rite of Welcome 
This Sunday at the 11 :45 am Mass in the Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart we will recognize those members ofthe Notre Dame community_ who are seeking to be become fidly initiated into the Catholicfaith community in the Rite ofWelcome. These men and women have met together the past several months to explore their faith and the Catholic Church more deeply through the RCIA process. Catechumens seek full initiation through the sacraments ofBaptism, Eucharist, and Confinnation; Candidates are already baptized and seek to be received into Full Communion with the Catholic Church through the sacraments ofthe Eucharist and Confirmation. The Rite ofWelcome gives all ofus an opportunity to encourage these men and women as they continue their journey ofinitiation in the months ahead. 
CATECHUMENS & their sponsors FRANKLIN HARKINS Sheila McCarthy MARCUS CAMPBELL Mark Coomes TAYLOR HEAPS Chris Reilly LISA HUDSON Christine Harding SOREN JOHNSON Caleb Congrove 
JAY JOHNSON Colleen Dunne KATIE LATSHAW Brendan Cox 
RYAN KENNY Megan Murphy MARK MATSON Rodrigo Morales CAITLIN MURRAY Pat Virtue MIKE MORGALIS Pat Millea JAMES RILEY Mirella Riley SARA OBERLIN Amy Schlatterbeck KRISTA ROBINETTE Brian Robinette NICOLAS PACELLI Christina Sullivan 
ANDREW POKER Jeanne-Nicole Saint-Laurent 
CANDIDATES & their sponsors HOPE RUIZ Mark Ruiz MATT BLANCETT Mary Beth Stryker JAMIE SCHEIDERER Jason Scheiderer GUETON CUBILLO Cindy Santana ELAINE SOSA-RAMIREZ Julie Vecchio KIERSTEN FERGUSON Becky Klein MIKE WELLS Carrie Strobel JULIE FOSTER Lisa Gutowski KATIE WILD Erin Flynn TISHA GREENSLADE Jill Perry KEN YOUNG Anthony Sieh ERIN GRISWOLD Tom Curtin 

Women's Vocations " 

Conversation on Religious Life for Women 
Wednesday, November 29. 7:30 p.m. 
campus Ministry. Badin Hall 
For info, please call Sr. Sue Bruno, OSF at 631-5740 

Tuesday, November 28, 2000 The Obseroer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 

Lawmakers propose alternatives 
. Texas analyzes current capital punishment policy 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN, Texas 

As the U.S. Supreme Court 
prepares to hear the appeal of 
a Texas death row inmate 
whose lawyers say he is men­
tally retarded, a group of state 
lawmakers said Monday juries 
should be allowed to sentence 
killers to life in prison without 
parole. 
Current law allows Texas 
juries two options for capital 
murder convictions: death or 
a "lifo" sentence that allows 
for parole afler 40 years. 
"I think we should give them 
as many options as possible," 
said. Democratic Sen. Eddie 
Lucio, who is sponsoring a bill 
to create a life without parole 
sentence. The Legislature con­
venes in January. 
Lucio said 33 other states, 
the federal government, and 
the military have the death 
penalty with an option for life 
without parole. Such a sen­
tence might appeal to jurors 
who fear that a convicted 
killer could go free or who 
cannot decide whether to give 
a death sentence, Lucio said. 
Lucio said the bill is not 
meant to reduce the number 
of executions in Texas, the 
nation's busiest death penalty 
state, where 37 inmates have 
been put to death by lethal 
injection this year. 
"I support the death penal­
ty," Lucio said. 'Tm not trying 
to steer jurors away from the 
death penalty." 
But retiring llarris County 
District Attorney John 
Holmes Jr. said the bill 
"would eliminate the death 
penalty." 
"A jury will have a heck of a The court said it will use the time giving the death penalty case to clarify how much if they have the possibility of opportunity jurors in death locking them up forever," penalty cases must have to Holmes said. "As a taxpayer, I consider the defendant's men­don't know whv I have to take tal capacity. someone who has engaged in Lucio said he didn't know such conduct ... and support whether Penry's case would that guy for the rest of his be one in which a jury would natural life. You're going to have imposed a sentence of have to build life without a geriatric parole. But [prison] a press
"/ support the death
wing." release dis­K e i t h penalty. I'm not trying to tributed by 
Hampton of steer jurors away from Lucio's the Texas office at the
the death penalty."
Criminal same time Defense specifically Lawyers Eddie Lucio noted the Association Penry case
senator, (D)-Texas
said chang­ing the law would be unlikely to slow the pace of executions in Texas. 
"You may see a decrease ... but I think it will be virtuallv unnoticeable," he said°. "They'll s~ill get their death sentences. 
Lucio filed a similar bill in 1999. Both it and the House version of the bill died when they never came up for a vote. 
Despite that defeat and the fact there has been little change in the Legislature's makeup, the bill sponsors said they felt they should bring it up again. 
"I think I think as long as its clear we're not trying to elimi­nate the death penalty and just trying to give juries a dif­ferent option it has a decent shot of passing," said Sen. Rodney Ellis of Houston. 
On Monday, the Supreme Court agreed to consider an appeal from convicted Texas killer John Paul Penry, whose lawyers say he is mentally retarded and has the reason­ing capacity of a 7-year-old. 
as one that 
could be 

have been affected. 
The death penalty still has strong support in Texas even though recent polls have shown some concern about its enforcement. 
A Scripps Howard Texas Poll released in June found that 5 7 percent of those sur­veyed believe Texas has put an innocent person to doath. Nonetheless, 7 3 percent of those surveyed favored the death penalty. 
A Gallup Poll earlier this year put support nationally for capital punishment at 66 percent, its lowest level since 1981. 
Steven Hawkins, who heads the National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty, said public support of the death penalty erodes when juries are given the choice of life without parole. 
"We definitely see life with­out parole as a positive devel­opment because it offers an alternative to the death penal­ty," Hawkins said. 

Live munity.
........ 
uve Brotherhood. 


As a Brother in the Congregation of Holy Cross you will share in a rich tradition of unselfish service and become a brother to many. 
BROTHERS OF HOLY CROSS 

For more information about beginning a new life as a Brother of Holy Cross, contact Br. Donald Gibbs, C.S.C. 
P.O. Box 460, Notre Dame, IN 46556 e-mail: dg1bbs@hcc-nd.edu (219)-251-2222 
----~-\: ill ' 
Law denies GOP 
trans1t1on space 
signed an executive order cre­
Associated Pre. .. 
ating a 12-mcmber "transition coordinating council," includ­WASHINGTON ing the heads of the GSA, FBI.
Dick Cheney deplored the 

and IRS, to help the next presi­
Clinton administration's 
dent ease into office. 
"regrettable" decision to keep But Cheney said, "We will
the Republican ticket from pay a heavy price for the
using space rented by the gov­delays in planning and assem­ernment for planning a presi­bling the next administration."
dential transition. 
He announced that Bush
But President Clinton said 

would set up a nonprofit group Monday the law prohibits giv­in Texas to raise money for the 
ing up the space until an 
Bush-Cheney transition officeundisputed winner of the elec­here. A 1963 law allows pri­tion emerges. 
vate donations of up to $5,000Cheney, the Hepublican vice each to help cover transition
presidential candidate, said costs. Clinton raised suchGeorge W. Bush will begin 
money in 1992.
raising donations of up to 
Cheney
$5,000 
said Bush
each to pay would accept
the cost of "This is regrettable 
donationsplanning 
because we believe the 
from individ­
his admin­
government has an uals but not
istration 
from corpo­
and begin­obligation to honor the 
rations or
ning the certified results ofthe 
political
search for 
election." action com­
the thou­
mittees.

sands of 
R e p .
people who Dick Cheney 
Stephenwill staff it. Republican vice presidential Horn, R­
Normally, 
nominee Calif., said 
govern­m e n t money is used for that purpose. Congress provided $5.3 million this year. 
"This is regrettable because we believe the government has an obligation to honor the cer­tified results of the election," Cheney told a Washington news conference, referring to Florida's certification Sunday of Bush and Cheney as winners there. Vice President Gore is contesting the Florida vote count. 
With the election tied up in court, the government's house­keeping agency says Bush doesn't qualify for the $5.3 million. 
President Clinton endorsed the agency's decision but said he didn't guide it. 
"The General Services Administration believes that it cannot offer transition assis­tance to both of them, which is what I would otherwise be inclined to do," Clinton said. "And I think they're going with what they think the law requires." 
Clinton said the administra­tion was working to ensure a smooth hand over of the gov­ernment. 
He went over transition plan­ning at a Cabinet meeting and · 
.. 
the House Government Management, 
Information, and Technology subcommittee he chairs would hold a hearing next Monday to investigate whether the transi­tion law is being fully imple­mented for an orderly transi­tion. 
"It is imperative that the new administration gets off on the right foot," Horn said. 
The 90,000 square feet of office space leased by the GSA for the transition will remain locked up as long as "any doubt" remains about who won, said White House Press Secretary Jake Siewert. 
"The law is pretty clear," he said. Siewert said the decision has been left to GSA Administrator 
David  Barram,  a  Clinton  
appointee,  but  the  White  
House  also  has  asked the  

Justice Department to provide guidance on interpretation of transition law. 
Barram is authorized by law to determine the "apparent" winner for the purpose of turn­ing over the otlice and money. 
"We believe that as long as both sides are still pursuing their court challenges there is no apparent winner," said GSA spokeswoman Beth Newburger. 
•;-" ... •'• :, 

IIL ,;~ "!Ui"iltl-i"t'ttt,i·h-­

----------·-·----------­
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

page 12 BSERVER Tuesday, November 28, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, No11c Dame, IN 46556 024 Souih Dming Hall, Notre Dome, IN 46>56 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER Christine Kraly Brian Kessler 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VIEWPOINT EDl"fOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Pat Peters An Df_SIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINl.'.>Tll.ATOR: Mike Gunvil!e WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER, Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO.. ........631-747] FAX............................................................. 631-6927 
ADVERTISING....................................63 )-6900/8840 observad@nd.edt1 EDITOR IN CHJEF.........................................631-4542 MANAGING Eo1mRiAssT. ME....................63I-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-53!3 NEWS......................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edt1 VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS.......................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE.............. ................................ 631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAJNT MARv's...........................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOTO.................·······................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADM!Nl~TRAT0RS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site al http://obreroer.uded11 for daily t1pdates of01rnpus news, sports, feamres and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Assu~iated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
and rates ofprint ads 
. cial =pus coverage 
abot1t The Observer
archives to search for 
articles published after 
ro meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by 1he smdenrs of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Ma,y's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither instim1ion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on coment. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columni present the views of the at1chors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through leners is encouraged. l..ctters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact informa.tion. 
Quntio,u regard111g Observ<r policur should be direct­rd 10 Editor in Chief Milu Cc,molly. 

At Notre Dame good things happen from the bottom up. For example, on Nov. 9 the Maritain Center, Knights of Columbus and St. Thomas Moore Society sponsored a presentation by Father John Harvey. OSFS, and David • Morrison on Catholic teaching and homosexuality. 
The Church teach­es that "homosexual acts are intrinsically disordered," accord­ing to the Catecism. Homosexuality, or the inclination to such acts, is not itself a sin. However, as the Letter on the Pastoral Care of Homosexual Persons, issued with the approval of John Paul II in 1986, states: "Although the particular inclination of the homosexual person is not_a sin, it is a ... tendency ordered toward an intrinsic moral evil and thus the incli­nation itself must be seen as an objec­tive disorder." The Catechism states: "The number of men and women who have deep-seated homosexual tenden­cies is not negligible. This inclination, which is objectively disordered, consti­tutes for most of them a trial. They must be accepted with respect, com­passion and sensitivity. Every sign of unjust discrimination in their regard should be avoided. These persons are called to fulfill God's will in their lives and, if they are Christians, to unite to the sacrifice of the Lord's Cross the dif­ficulties they may encounter from their condition." 
Father Harvey and Morrison put this issue in a personalized context. At the request of Terence Cardinal Cooke of New York in 1980, Father Harvey founded Courage, the growing interna­tional support group. Courage includes 

groups for men and women and a sup­
port group for parents, called 
Encourage. 

The Five Goals of Courage, written 
by the early members, are: "1. To live 
chaste lives in accordance with the 
Roman Catholic Church's teaching on 
homosexuality; 2. To dedicate our 
entire lives to Christ; 3. To foster ... fel­
lowship [to] ensure that none of us will 
have to face the problems of homosex­
uality alone; 4.... [T]o encourage one 
another in forming and sustaining 
[chaste friendships]; 5. To live lives 
that may serve as good examples to 
others with homosexual difliculties." 
Courage members "follow a plan of 
life that takes the person as far as pos­
sible from the gay milieu ... Since 
Courage is primarily concerned with 
helping individuals to live a life of inte­
rior chastity, it does not require that 
its members strive to get out or the 
condition itself. Courage, however, 
does encourage members who want to 
do so to seek counsel and group thera­
py in a context of prayer." 
David Morrison, author of Beyond 
Gay, described his "pilgrimage from 
being a homosexual-rights activist to 
living life as a chaste Catholic. I had a 
lover of five years, a condominium in a 
major urban area, a satisfying job, and 
a church life as an Episcopalian." The -writings of the Protestant, Dietrich 
Bonhoeffer, martyred by the Nazis, led 
Morrison to embark on what became 
his "journey to the Catholic faith ... 
[T]he Catholic Church is the only 
Christian institution that not only 
preaches the truth of chastity for 
homosexual people but offers practical, 
tangible help for achieving it." 
"In the act of ... 'coming out,"' notes 
Morrison, "one sacrifices individual 
personhood for identity in the group ... 
[O]nce a person has made a decision 
that he is not merely homosexually ori­
ented, but is gay, then ... everything 
else -society, faith. institutions and 
even God will be viewed ... through 
that ... lens. Homosexual orientation is 
not a choice for most people, but being 
gay is and it is this choice which moti­
vates homosexual groups ranging from 
Dignity to ACT UP." 
It has not been proven that the 
homosexual inclination is genetic or 
otherwise innate. We do not delinitive­
ly know what causes that inclination. 
Yet there is abundant evidence that 
persons of homosexual inclination can 
lead chaste lives committed to Christ. 
Neither Father Harvey nor Morrison 
makes any universal claim beyond 
that. although they affirm that some 
persons of' homosexual inclination 
have been able. with counseling and 
therapy, to go on to marriage and suc­
cessful heterosexual lives. 
The Administration misleads Notre 
Dame students here. The 
Administration refuses to admit that 
the homosexual inclination is disor­
dered. Yet the Administration affirms 
that "oflicial Church teaching" man­
dates that the inclination may not be 
acted upon. This implies that the 
"Church teaching" is an arbitrary 
restriction. If the inclination is not dis­
ordered, why may it not be acted 
upon? In truth, homosexual acts and 
the inclination toward them, are 
"objectively disordered" because they 
are contrary to the nature built into us 
by God. The recognition of this reality 
is the lirst step toward a coherent 
approach to this question. 
The Administration should invite 
Father Harvey to form a Courage chap­
ter at Notre Dame. Students could ben­
efit from the efforts of this admirable, 
perceptive and charitable priest. 
Political correctness ought not to stand . in the way. 
Professor Rice is on the Law School 
faculty. His column appears every 
other Tuesday. 
The opinions expressed in this col­
umn are those ofthe author and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 
DILBERT 

E 
8 
g 
i @) e
WALLY, WE CAN'T 
FINO OUR CPR 
FINDING
DUMMY. I NEED 
ll 
IT?
YOUR HELP. 
E 
\
8 
t: 
a 
'ti 

~ 

L-.;.:J.JI.L..~--..i...::::illM-L;.;.;;;;.;;;..;;;u ~ _______...,._._____~: 
2 
SCOTT ADAMS 
YES, ASSUMING YOU CAN DO THAT WHILE LYING ON YOUR BACK WITH YOUR MOUTH 
OPEN. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"/ was taught that the human brain was the crowning glory ofevolution so Jar, but I think it's a very poor scheme for survival." 
Kurt Vonnegut writer 

VIEWPOINT 
THE 

Tuesday, November 28, 2000 OBSERVER page 13 
Do it right rather than rapidly 


Last Sunday my host family invited my par­ents, who visited for Thanksgiving, and I to dine at their home. We arrived at two o'clock and moved slowly to the dinner table, where we enjoyed u wonderful three-course meal consisting of Austrian specialties. Conversation about Innsbruck and Tirol and the Alps filled the pauses between the bites of food and sips of Viennese wine. After eating for an hour and a half we took a walk around their small town of ~-­Sistrans located outside of Innsbruck and returned to coffee and Sachortorte, an Austrian chocolate-cake dessert. Classical music hummed in the back­ground as we sat by the fire and finished off the Sunday dinner five hours 
Joanna

later with red wine and 
Mikulski

traditional Tirolien fruit and nut bread. The afternoon and Innsbruck evening progressed 
Stimme 

rhythmically and methodically and mimic­ked those frequently experienced by Innsbruck students invited to their guest fami­ly's house for a weekend dinner or weekday lunch. As a friend of mine observed, a 
European eats one meal in the same amount of time that an American consumes lunch, dinner and the next day's breakfast. 
Accustomed to grabbing food in between class and work. I had a difficult time adjusting to the slow pace of these meals that seem to last the entire day. 
Americans. like myself. work and eat in environments of speed, sound bites and stress. Commuters inhale their breakfast from McDonald's in the car as they weave in and out of traflic on the interstate. 
They have lunch in 
-restaurants, where the waiters rush from table to table delivering appetiz­er and main dishes and desserts quick­
.,,,,.

ly and unceremoni­ously, allowing the diners to come and to eat and to leave immediately. Chain restaurant,; offer ten­minute lunch guaran­tees. Parents feed their children Happy Meals after their soccer prac­tices and before their /piano lessons. The shelves of grocery stores are lined with 30-minuto frozen piz­zas, Stouffer's Lasagna in a disposable pan and Unclfl Ben's minute rice. An average American meal lasts only 12 min­utes. 
And in those 12 minutes Americans barely taste the food that they shovel into their mouths. 
In contrast. Europeans seem to savor every bite. The Austrian appreciation for good food evidences itself not only in the meals enjoyed at host families, homes but also in the super­market. In Spar and M-Preis stores, only one 
' 
,,,---... 
1 

/ accomplishments and better ~ . 1if"· / things and quality activities. OAJWP' Undoubtedly, they would lead more fulfilling lives as a result. 
type of reduced fat cookie rcsl<; in the snack aisle. Whole milk is readily ayailable, but skim and J percent fat milk can be difi1cult to find. I searched for diet root beer for days, but could only locate one type of diet drink, Coca-Cola light. 
The supermarket offerings certainly differ from those in American stores, which sell all varieties of chemical-laden reduced-fat, lower calorie food. And yet, ironically the American, not the European, waistline constantly expands. Perhaps the health of the french lies not in their consumption of red wine, but in their slow, moderate consumption of all food and drink. 
In my first semester here in Innsbruck I have found that this appreciation for mealtime parallels the greater appreciation of Europeans for life in general. Everything in Europe seems to move slower than in the United States. Stores in Austria often close for two hours for lunch and the shopper cannot count on the owner of the business to return for the afternoon if he has had good company at his midday meal. Business usually ends at five and work rarely extends into Sunday. Students in no rush to obtain a diploma and to enter the work force study for seven or eight years at the university. The Austrians in gen­eral do not miss an opportunity to relax and to enjoy the company of their family. 
I 

Joanna Mikulski is a sophomore Arts and Letters major. She is spending the year abroad in Innsbruck, Austria. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsemer. 
After three months of residency in this small European country, I have final­ly found my body and mind adjust­ing to the slower rhythm of the days and weeks. A trip to a T. 
G. I. Friday's in Americanized / London almost sent my 

friends and I into culture shock. We watched amazed as our waitress nearly tripped over her­self as she brought us 
numerous refills for our drinks. Our entrees came less 
l 
than 15 minutes after 
we ordered. But, in contrast to Austrian waitresses. she also 
eagerly brought us our bill and whisked us out the door. 
-

) 
I had never real­ized truly how quickly life moves in the United States. It 
frightens me that the speed of American life actually increas­-es with each passing moment. Americans strive to complete more tasks, more pro­
jects and more chores in fewer days, fewer hours and fewer sec­onds. Perhaps they should take the lead of the Europeans and aim to fill their life not simply with more accomplishments and more things and more activi­ties, but with more complete 
~a.,/,-187"~---? 
Religion is scared of Hollywood 
STILLWATER, Okla. 
Throughout the tornadic fury that was once research for a pro­ject, I came across a jewel of an article claiming that Hollywood was in part responsible for the decline in religion across the world. I would have dismissed it, had the article not blamed many of the films I consider to be prominent examples of what cinema should be. 
The first example cited by this skewed report Cass Rains was the latest sci-fi psychotic thriller, "The Cell." The author states a crucial piece of the plot by revealing that the killer committed his 
Daily

horrible acts because of a botched baptism. 
O'Collegian

Hence, blaming Hollywood for directly relating religion to the imaginative slaughter of an actor -obviously the intent of the writer, producer and director. 
The tirade continues to attack films that decay the once shining white moral fiber of America, claiming that Kevin Spacey led many to abandon their families and smoke pot in their garages. The author also states, "American Beauty" glorifies the dysfunctional family and promotes promiscuous sex and deviancy. 
The list went on and on, citing scenes from films such as "Stigmata" and "Dogma," insinuating they defame the image of the Catholic Church and defile any self-sacrifice in the name of free­dom of religion. 
But the author failed to realize that the entertainment business makes its money from giving people what they want. Hollywood doesn't force people to follow the norms and stigmas exaggerated in their films. because the people supplied the wood for this fire. 
Maybe some thought Kevin Smith playfully examined the hypocrisy of the Catholic Church or really enjoyed seeing the little guy win for a change in "American Beauty." Maybe some even find it entertaining to watch an unusual plot unfold about a serial killer. Obviously they do because these films fared very well according to box office returns. 
Had the films been the true atrocities they were made out to be, no one would have gone to see them. People would have skipped the matinee and gone to sit through a sermon concerning the decline of morality. But they didn't because they wanted to be entertained. The public wants to be shocked and appalled and see everything turn out all right after an hour and a half. 
Movies that are now considered to be boring and dull were once the pivotal stories of a generation. Believe it or not, "Gone With The Wind" met some resistance on the way to the top. Then, it had a great plot, real characters and a universal setting. Now, moviego­ers would turn their noses. We have seen the same story rehashed so many times that we need a surprise every two seconds and enough blood to fill a swimming pool to even watch the trailer. 
Things such as films, music and literature are a reflection of the times and state of society. There will always be someone who com­plains about those things because they have nothing else to hold onto -except the strife they created. Revived McCarthyism won't make the world a second Eden. 
Attacking movies, music and books won't prevent the decay of anything. We live in an age that is wealthy with information and advancements -some cannot come to grips with such a blatant reality. If you don't like the movie don't buy a ticket and try not to spoil the show for everyone. And in the now immortal words of Kevin Spacey, "J rule!" 
This column first appeared in the Oklahoma State University newspaper. the Daily O'Collegian, on Nov. 22, 2000 and is reprint­ed here courtesy ofthe U-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 




ALBUM REVIEW 

The W proves worth the wait for loyal Wu fans 
By TODD CALLAIS :icene Music Cri ric  of a padded rehabilitation cell. The Hza had also made announcements that this would  years. The instrumentation on this album is amazing and this coupled with the sometimes  
They have made their incrndi­bly loyal fans wait impatiently for 3 1/2 y1iars -which in the rap irnlustry is two lifetimes. And although the Hza has produced a number o!' solo albums from all or the Wu-Tang members (with  be the Wu-Tang Clan's final album together. Taken all together, these problems made critics question whether the intensity and heart of the groups previous two albums would be in place this time on The W. Ilowever. with The \V, the Clan  drastic changes Rza makes in the middle of many songs throughout the album, the music is left with a much more com­plex and innovative feel. Them is not a single song on the album that is bad. Even die hard !'ans have admit that the  
the exceplion or Masta Killa) and  is quick to put such fears to rest.  Clan's previous albums have had  
the fact that there has been a Tho W is great. Some fans might number of side projects, fans have to listen to it a couple or wern still yearning for all of the times before they really begin to members to get back together feel it, but before long. they'll for llw first Wu-Tang ,ilbum in realize just how addicting the almost four years. power of the Wu is, and the wait Unfortunately, problems hit is definitely worth the effort. the band pretty quickly on this The W has all or the signaturl' venture. The album was sup­\Vu-Tang clan posed to be trademarks. It produced has the lightAnd in true O.D.B. style,almost a year drumbeatsit sounds almost as zfitago, but the and clips l'rom band (which were recorded in a old kung-fu consists of nine movies. Bui.garage (or perhaps in or 10 members even beyondthis case. a jail cell).-depending that, this on whether or album pro-not you count vides more Cappadonna) was never able to than the previous two do in the get together at the same time. way of producing. The Hza (who Then tragedy struck as one the acts both as producer and Clan band's most popular members, member) benefited greatly from 0.0.B. (aka, Big Baby Jesus) all of the producing work that he found himself inside the confines has done over the last three  some songs that could have been left behind. The Clan also finally brings in big names like Nas, Snoop Dogg, Redman and Busta Rhymes to rap on a couple of their tracks for the first time. Even Isaac Hayes makes an appearance on one of the tracks. The album starl'i off incredibly strong with the song "Chamber Music," which features Haekwon at his best and an awesome cho­rus by Method man that only demonstrates why he is the best selling solo Wu-Tang artist. The second song, "Careful (Click, Click)," is really raw but if you listen to it more than once, it becomes almost hypnotic, and will leave fans listening to it over and over. With producing that is probably best labeled as "inter­esting," and the constant chang­ing of sound levels, "Careful" truly is a great song. The only  negative aspect being that the band actually recycled some of their lyrics from the '95 release . 36 Chambers. The fourth song, "Redbull," features possibly the hottest duo in rap today with Hedman and Method Man showing olT their lyrical superiority to a horn background. And even though it may not be up to the quality of songs that one would hear on the album Blackout, this song's musical divergence from the Wu-Tang norm make it a must listen. "Conditioner" is another extremely significant song to the album because il"is the only song in which O.O.B. actually raps.  And in true O.O.B. style, it sounds almost as if' it were recorded in a garage (or pr.rhaps in this case. a jail cell). Snoop 0ogg, one of the greatest cameo rappers ew~r. makes this song more than decent. "Do You Heally (Thang Thang)" is just flat out awesome and will definitely be among the best tracks the Wu-Tang Clan has ever produced. As will "Gravel Pit," a song that features fast lyrics, cool spy music, female vocals and all fans could ever ask from the Wu-Tang. Overall, the wait was worth it. If this is to be the last true Wu­Tang Clan album, at least they went out with a bang.  


ALBUM REVIEW 

Slim explores experimental concepts on Halfway 
By TOM OGORZALEK 
Scene Music Critic 
When it comes to the big beats, there is no artist better known than Fatboy Slim. Halfway Between the Gutter and the Stars, his first release since his 1998 breakthrough You've Come a Long Way, Baby is more mature and inventive than even that offering (which he called "too Disney"). 
In Halfway, though it doesn't seem to offer the blockbuster dance hall potential of tracks like "Funk Soul Brother" and "Praise You," it does 



On his most recent release, Halfway Between the Gutter and the Stars, Fatboy Slim breaks from his up a spicy traditional formulaic club music, experimenting more with trance music and guest vocalists. dance stew. Far from the 
seem that Slim -real name Norman Cook -has decided to back away from the formulaic club scene in which he flirted with in the past to explore more experimental ideas. 
Halfway takes more from the genre of trance than Fatboy's earlier work. This innuence is particularly evident in the hypnotically surreal "Sunset (Bird of Prey)." in which a spoken word sample of Jim Morrison is used to paint a picture of what Fatboy calls "Every sunset I've ever watched." 
Cook gets some unbelievably sweet help from the living as well. Macy Gray, fresh off of' a breakout of her own, teams with her fellow Brit to provide the vocals on two well-pro­duced tracks, the funky "Love Life" and the more subdued "Demons." Ashley Slater, Bootsy Collins, Roland Clark and Roger Sanchez also con-

tribute to the effort. 
W h i 1 e assembling this roster of talent, Cook also took care to create an album that somehow remains effectively balanced in spite of ­or perhaps because of -the myriad of influences that might potentially pull tracks in different directions. He rides a veritable pendu­1um from straight funk -for the funky -to pensive trance -for the 
stoned -to a sort of disco­

funk fusion that is sure to amuse those in the crowd that want to move and then back to a sort of peaceful float­ing piano that serves to bring a twisted and uneasy sereni­ty. Throw in lyrics like, "Walk without rhythm, and it won't attract the worm," and Fatboy Slim is once Photo courtesy of fatboyslim.org.uk again brewing 
mindless lyrics and repetitive beats of the typical mainstream electronic artist, Fatboy Slim has proven with Halfway Between the Gutter and the Stars that he is more interested in coming up with experimental concepts in electronic sound that are nonethe­less pleasing to a wide-ranging audi­ence. And like Moby, he has been able to touch the mainstream without becoming polluted by it. Cook's music remains !'resh and dynamic, and he's not afraid to try new techniques and sounds within his work. 
Furthermore, this album could bn seen as a concept in itself. There is a distinct cohesion, despite its varied internal styles, and it ends as it begins. with a mystical crescendo into a big bright y(i!low sun. 
Anyone interested in the possibili­ties for fusion of form or creativity within the sometimes diche world ol' electronic dance music ought to listen in somewhere Halfway Between thP Gutter and the Stars. 
Tom Ogorzalek's similarly bombastic opinions can be heard on the Notre /Jame Blues Experiment. on WSND-FM 
88. 9 Thursdays from 10 lo midnight. 



NSIDER 
O
THE Tuesday, Novembtr 28, 2000 BSERVER Notre Dame at USC 

PETER RICHARDSONfThe Observer Freshman quarterback Matt Lovecchio runs for a 1-yard touchdown on fourth-and-goal to put the Irish up 28-14 in the third quarter of Saturday's 38-21 victory by the Irish against the USC Trojans. Lovecchio rushed for two touchdowns on the day as he improved his record to 7-0 as a starter. 
Mistake-free Irish punch ticket to BCS 
Irish tie NCAA record for least turnovers in a season as they·roll to 38-21 victory against the Trojans and a possible bid in the Fiesta Bowl 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Assistant Sports Edi tor 
LOS ANGELES 

Winning teams capitalize on oppo­nent's mistakes and make very few of their own. 
The Irish proved this theory Saturday afternoon. taking advantage of four USC turnovers en route to a 38-21 victory that likely sends the Irish to a Bowl Championship Series bowl. 
"We're not a team that has marquee players," Irish head coach Bob Davie said following the game. "We probably played a football team today that had more talented individuals on the team than we do, but we're a good football team." 
Notre Dame broke away early in the third quarter following an interception by Glen Earl. On the first play following the interception, freshman quarterback Matt LoVecchio found a diving Javin Hunter downfield for a 48-yard comple­tion that put the Irish on the 4-yard line. 
"We've been certainly waiting for Javin to break loose," said Davie. "I think he has the potential that maybe some of those receivers you saw out there on the other side of the field have." 
Following three failed attempts to run the ball into the end zone, Davie decided to go for the touchdown on fourth-and­goal at the 2-yard line rather than kick a field goal. The strategy proved success­ful as Lovecchio ran the option perfect­ly, running the ball into the corner of the end zone to put the Irish up 28-14. 
"Thank God we've got him," Notre Dame offensive coordinator Kevin Rogers said of LoVecchio -now 7-0 as a starter. "You're talking about a kid who's a different guy for an 18-year old. It's not so much in terms of his ability, it's the intangible qualities that he's got in terms of his cool under pressure and his belief in himself." 
Notre Dame's first score of the game ca.me after a partially blocked punt by David Givens. Following the block, the Irish took advantage of the field position, marching 40 yards downfield in a drive that culminated in a 1-yard touchdown run by Terrance Howard. 
USC tied the game tied the game at seven later in the first quarter, but the Irish took control of the game in the sec­ond -thanks to two stellar defensive plays. 
Walk-on Chad DeBolt's blocked punt -the fifth block punt of the season for the Irish, a school record -put the Irish in the SO-yard line. 
Four plays and one roughing the pass­er penalty later, LoVecchio scored on a 13-yard run down the sideline. 
Only three plays later, senior safety Tony Driver intercepted a Carson Palmer pass and returned it 43 yards to the USC 19-yard line. Six plays later, Tony Fisher scored the fourth touch­down of the game for the Irish. 
"I haven't seen a special teams team like this in a long time," said Fiesta Bowl selection committee member Evan Paoletti. "J think they're a good team." 
After a Nick Setta 39-yard field goal. the Irish were able to run down the clock on their final scoring drive, moving the ball 80 yards on the ground before Julius Jones scored on a 2-yard run to put the Irish up 38-21 with 2:57 left. 
"At the end of the game when you have something line 10 or 12 straight running plays and ice the game, it shows that you can run the football," said Davil!. "When you can run the ball when other people know you're going to run it, you're a pretty good rushing football team." 
Notre Dame also tied an NCAA record for fewest turnovers in a season with eight. Davie expressed pride in that sta­tistic, a statistic that exemplifies the low­risk offense that Notre Dame plays. 
"My first year as football coach we had 12, which was second-lowest in the history of Notre Dame football," said Davie. "My second year we had 13, which was third-lowest in the history of Notre Dame football. Last year we had 30 turnovers, and we went 5-7." 
On Friday night before the game, Notre Dame had a ceremony honoring each graduating senior. The team brought out each player's home jersey and had a poster made honoring each athlete. After a highlight reel was played of the player's accomplishments, each player's position coach spoke of the player's accomplishments. 
"That's one of my most memorable moments at Notre Dame," said senior wide receiver Joey Getherall of the event. "It showed how much we care for each other. We'd sell our souls for each othor." 


player of the game  quote of the game  stat of the game  
Brock Williams The senior cornerback played one ofthe best games ofhis career. He made six tackles  "It's time for this team to get back on the map. I think Notre Dame is back to the old days."  24 straight running plays The Irish closed the game with 24 consecutive plays on the ground to finish oj]' the Trojans  
and broke up five passes - Tony Fisher  with smashmouth football.  
both were team highs.  Junior running back  

Tuesday, November 28, 2000 
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
report card 

A 
quarterbacks: LoVecchio -one of Sports lllustratcd's five Hcisman favorites for 2001 -completed fJ-14 
passes for 142 yards, rushed for 45 yards and two touchdowns. 
A 
running backs: Fisher, Howard and Jones each averaged more than 3 yards per carry and scored a touch­
down. 
B+ 
receivers: The receiving core was rwarly 11awless. Its only blemish on tlrn al'ternoon was Givens' incomplete 
pass attempt. 
B 
offensive line: The big uglies wore down the USC defensive line and ran over the Trojans in the second half. They 
must stop the false start penalties. 

A 
defensive line: USC's leading rusher was Palmer and he only gained 22 yards. The Irish won the battle in the 
trenches and sacked Palmer four 
times. 
B 
linebackers: Denman. Harrison and Boiman combined for 11 tackles and 
two for a loss -another quiet but effective game. 
B 
defensive backs: Although the Irish backs were beat for a 59-yard touch­down, they were solid for most of the al'lcrnoon. Driver and Earl each had 
an interception while Williams played his best game of the year. 
special teams: The dominant Irish

A+ 
special teams continued their spec­
tacular play. Two blocked punts in 
one game is almost unheard of. 
B+ 
coaching: Davie, on the hot seat for most of the season, played it cool 
and has his team ready for a BCS bowl. 

3.55 overall: The Irish put forth their best effort of the season as they finally beat USC in Los Angeles. 
adding up the numbers 
number of Notre Dame captains who suited up for the game. 
2
Jabari Holloway and Grant Irons missed the game with injuries. 
8 
total Irish turnovers in 2000 ­a Notre Dame and NCAA all­
time record 
punts blocked by the Irish this 
5 
year -including two against USC -all five led to Irish touchdowns 
3 
consecutive Irish false start penalties in the second quarter 
the last year the Irish 
19g2 
won in the Colesium before Saturday 
18 interceptions thrown by C. arson Palmer in 2000 -a Southern California record 
consecutive games attended 
by USC sports information 
director Tim Tessalone before 
243 
he broke his ribs in a Thanksgiving softball game and missed Saturday's game 
31 
number ol times the use band played the only 
song it knows during the 
game 

IRISH INSIGHT 

LOS ANGELES Could there have been a more fitting scene? 
Here, minutes from Hollywood, Bob Davie completed his transformation from outcast to outstanding. 
Shortly after his postgame press confer­ence, Davie spot­ted Kevin Hickey, the Fiesta Bowl's treasurer, in the corridor leading to the Irish lock­er room. 
Then, follow­ing a script straight from central casting, the unlikely duo embraced. 
"I saw you guys before that first pep rally," Davie told Hickey after Notre Dame's 38-21 win over USC. "You've been with us the whole way." 
And now, three months since Hickey attended the season opener against Texas A&M, Davie and company seem destined for a New Years in Arizona. 
"I'm not justjumping on the band­wagon," Hickey said. 'Tve been here since the beginning." 
He's in the minority. On the gloomy Sunday morning (Sept. 10), when Arnaz Battle's navicular bone injury became official, a devastated Davie tried to downplay the incident. 
"Although this is a major, major blow it's not going to be an excuse," Davie said on Sept. 10. "No one should feel sorry for us." 
No one did. By mid-afternoon, Irish fans basked in Davie's imminent departure. 
Less than 90 days remained until the Tom Coughlin Era began, these so­called fans thought. 
When the end ofDavie occurred, one could imagine a 10-Step Method of celebration, 
Cue the Victory March. Kiss Rockne's grave. Genuflect in front of the Basilica. Light a candle at the Grotto. Scream across South Quad. 
Sing the Alma Mater. Dream of the next coach. Shine the Golden Dome. Jump in Stonehenge. Praise Kevin White. 
Now? 

Anyone have extra tickets to Tempe? 
And there will be no repeat of the infamous yard sale one former Notre Dame coach had in July. 
"I would suspect Bob Davie will be a very successful coach here and he's earned it," said White, Notre Dame's athletic director. "He's moving pretty 

Tim Casey 
Assistant Sports Editor 

dramatically in that direction. I think we're all seeing what Bob's capable of doing." 
That includes joining old boss Lou Holtz and Oklahoma's Bob Stoops as one ofthe three finalists for the Football News 2000 National Coach of the Year Award. 
Plus, with a 9-2 record and No. 11 ranking in the Bowl Championship Series polls, the Irish are BCS-eligible. The Big 12 champion has an automat­ic bid for the Fiesta Bowl. But if top­ranked Oklahoma defeats Kansas State in Saturday's conference cham­pionship game, then the Sooners are headed for the Orange Bowl to play for the national championship. 
Either way, the Fiesta Bowl has the first at-large pick. Other teams vying for the one or two (if Oklahoma beats Kansas State) spots include Oregon State (10-1), Miami (9-2), Nebraska (9­
2) and Virginia Tech (10-1 ). 
The official pairings won't be announced until Sunday. But Notre Dame's choice bv the Fiesta Bowl is the worst kept ~ecret since Davie announced Matt LoVecchio as starter. 
"Anytime you can have Notre Dame, they travel very, very well, they're a class group of people to have around and it's rich with tradition," said Hickey, who attended "four or five" other Irish games this year. "Notre Dame is always healthy for any bowl." 
How appropriate Hickey would use "healthy" to describe the Irish. During the nightmarish November of 1999. Davie kept referring to the Irish 's 21 injured players. At the time, writers (myself included) criticized Davie for his excuses. Besides the health issues, Davie also constantly mentioned his team's lack of talent and difficult schedule. 
On Saturday, Notre Dame's head coach commented on the 2001 squad. 
"I look forward to next year," Davie said. "This will be the most talented team we'll have since I've been at Notre Dame and we'll probably play the most difficult schedule in the histo­ry of Notre Dame." 
Instead of a whining fool, people perceived Davie as an honest man. Or they ignored the statement. Winning's a potent cure in this crazy profession. Consider USC coach Paul Hackett. 
Moments after Davie hugged Hickey, Hackett entered the media room. Hackett, who was fired on Monday after compiling a 19-18 record in three years (including a 5-7 mark this season), refused to discuss his uncer­tain future. 
'Tm going to take a few questions," Hackett said, "and then I'm going to hibernate." 
Add that scene to The Bob Davie Story. Because popular opinion said Davie would be the one searching the Help Wanted sections jn late November. 
Not according to tailback Tony Fisher, however. 
"We couldn't worry about [the spec­ulation]," Fisher said. "Coach Davie is like a father out there and we're his kids. So we had to go out there and protect our father." 
Hcferences to "family" routinely arise under the Golden Dome. And Davie may be the campaign's biggest supporter. 
Following practice on Oct. 4, I spoke with Davie about offensive guard Mike Candy's ascension from academic pro­bation to graduation in four years. 
After the other reporters left, we talked for nearly 10 minutes, an eter­nity for the busy coach. 
"Coming to Notm Dame is about guys maturing and guys growing." Davie said. "You're always going to have some guys on your team, just like in any walk in life, guys are going to make mistakes. But what you hope is that people in the student body appre­ciate that as a group they can really be proud of the way our guys go about doing things. 
"This isn't always an easy place. There's places where they don't have Davie 101 [a study hall for struggling football players] and you don't have to go to class. But here you do. And in the end, the ones who survive it are stronger for it and better people." 
He could have been talking about himself. But Davie never takes credit (at least publicly) for the turnaround. 
"l found out pretty quickly when I became head coach that you better put your own personal t'eelings aside, you better only focus and concentrate on other people -the players and the coaches," Davie said on Saturday. "You can get so consumed with worry­ing about your own situation that it changes your personality, it changes how you approach football every day. And I'm never going to do that." 
Memo to Davie: 
Relax and reflect. Place your head on the pillow, pull the sheets up and close your eyes. 
In the dark, with no cameras rolling, no microphones recording. Just you and your thoughts of the past 365 days. 
Curse the critics. 
Cry tears ofjoy. 
You deserve to. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
Tuesday, November 28, 2000 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Irish defensive line shuts down Trojan offense 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Spores Writer 
-
LOS ANGELES 

"Student Body Hight" may have been torn from the Southern California playbook and "Tailback U" is just a dis­tant memory for the 2000 Trojan fans but the Irish knew that if they wanted to beat the Trojans, they had tu stop nm­ning back Sultan McCullough. 
The sophomore rushed for 
1. 149 yards before entering the game and averaged more than 5 yards-per-carry. lie fin­-­ished the afternoon with only 14 vards on 10 carries. 
"Probably the biggest sur­prise in the ball game was our inability to run," the now-fired head coach of USC Paul Hackett said after the game. "Without a running game against a team like Notre !Jame, you're reully going to struggle." 
The Irish defensive line con­trolled the line of scrimmage throughout the game and plugged nearly every hole in the Trojan front. Defensive tackles BJ Scott and Lance Legree along with defensive ends Ryan Roberts and Tony Weaver combined for six tack­les for loss. They also sacked USC quarterback Carson Palmer four times and forced a fumble. 
The defensive line set the tone for the game on the open­ing possession. Although the Irish stopped McCullough on two plays -once for a loss of said. Notre Dame 41-yard line. On bounds and the Trojans were The pressure from the a yard and another time for a Since Notre Dame had effec­fourth-and-one, Palmer snuck forced to punt. They never defensive line also forced 1-yard gain -Palmer moved tively shut down USC's run­forward for two yards to keep threatened to score again. Palmer to hurry his passes and the Trojans to midfield with ning attack, the Trojans were the drive alive and it appeared "The turning point of the make poor reads. The sec­two passes. forced to pass on nearly every that momentum might be game was the fourth down," ondary broke up seven passes 
On second-and-11 from the play. building for USC. Then the Hackett said. "We went for it, and picked off two thanks in USC 49. Palmer dropped back "It never felt like we went Irish "turned that switch on" got it and then had three mis­part to the pressure from the to pass. Weaver beat USC right with the run. We had to pass again. fires in a row. We had to punt defensive line. Weaver also tackle Faaesea Mailo to the pretty much ever play," USC Roberts, who stepped in for and they took control of the knocked a ball down at the outside and smacked Palmer tackle Brent McCaffrey said. an injured Grant Irons in the ballgame." line of scrimmage. All three from behind. The sophomore "Our pass protection was pret­Nebraska game and has start­The Irish offense took over USC turnovers -two intercep­quarterback coughed up the ty solid for the majority of the ed ever since, came around at its own 20-yard line and tions and a fumble -could in football and Scott recovered to time." the end to plant Palmer in the marched 80 yards on 12 run­part be attributed to the end the Southern Cal drive. Unfortunately for the turf at the 43-yard line. The ning plays to put the Trojans defensive line. 
Defensive coordinator Greg Trojans, the solid pass protec­sack was Roberts fifth on the away. The dominant play of the Mattison said his defensive tion wasn't there when it was year and tied him for second "We knew that if we could defensive line is nothing front had a lot of heart and needed most. on the team. get a big stop we could get the unique to this week's game. they always step up in a big With Notre Dame leading 31-Scott sacked Palmer again offense on the field and win The Irish defensive line has game. 21 and less than 11 minutes on the very next play to push the game," Scott said about combined for 22 sacks this 
"You've got to turn that remaining the game, Palmer USC back to the 46-yard line. the defensive stand in the year -surpassing the 18 by switch on when its needed," he engineered a drive to the Palmer's next pass went out of fourth quarter. the entire defense last year. 
scoring summary & stats 

AP poll 
scoring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 
Notre Dame 7 14 7 10 38
team (}Vo. r votes) 

7 7 0 7 21
use

1 Oklahoma (64) 11-0 
ND USC
2 Miami, Fla. (6) 10-1 team statistics 3 Florida Slate {1) 11.;1 first downs 22 18 Washington ··· ·
4 'fo-fr rushes-yards 62-246 30-78 
5 Oregon State to~1 
passing yards 142 251 
6 Virginia Tech 10-1 
comp-att-in t 9-15-0 17-35-2 
7 Florida lH 
kickoff return yards 73 134
8 Kansas state 10-2 
9· Oregon .._ 9~2} punt return yards 21 10 fumbles-lost 1-0 1-1
10 Nebraska 9;2 
11 NOTRE DAME 9,2 penalties-yard.c; 7-60 7-37 12 Texas . 9·2 915•:i time ofpossession 35:59 24:01 13 rcu 10-1 444w 
individual statistics 

14 Purdue a~s ,. 100 
··, 
passing

1'!f Clemson ;1Sitt '«1 K750 ND -Lovecchio 9-14-0, Givens 0-1-0
11t Miclligao di;3, ''J41 
USe -Palmer 17-35·2

17 Georgia Tech '!J-2 742 18 Aublirn 9-2 720'L. rushing 19 Northwestern ,JJ•3., . . .·. :)4
.l.9.. :if e ND -Fisher 15-74, Jones 20-71, Howard 9-48, Lovecchio 11­
4J49

20 . Ohio Slate. .:. 3.3 58, Getherall 1-18, Murray 1-5, Givens 2-4, Lopienski 1·2 /8r:Jii, w ..;i~1·
21 Tennessee use -Palmer 10-22, MacKenzie 5-18, Nickels 1-15, McCullough 
22 Louisvme ._9;2 10-14, Papadakis 2-6, Pierson 2-3 23 Colorado Slate 9-2 24 · Georgia ?;4 receiving 

scoring summary .team (No. [votes) record points Oklahoma (49}•···· 11-0 1,458
1st ··. ... 
10-1 1,410 

ND-5:23 
11·1 1,368

Howard 1-yd. run 
10;1. '1,298 -
Setta kick, 7-U USC· :36 10-1 1,209 
Palmer 3-yd. run 

6 10-1 1,181
Bell kick, 7-7 
7 10-2 • 1,098 2nd 8 9·2 1,026 ND-12:25 9~2 1,09t 
LoVecchio 13-yd. run 
)la· !ff' 011 • . 
Salta kick, 14-7 
1'1-•· 9·2 869

NIJ -8:39 Fisher 1·yd. run 12 9·2 771 Sella l(l~k, 21-7 13 9-2 768 
use. 7:32 
14 8·3 675
Kelly 59-yd. pass from 
. <10,t 520•


Palmar Bell kick, 21-14 .·.. B·l 610 
·· .. 9,2, 

3rd 11 ·.... 554· 
.· 1st•> Ueorgta Tech 9-2. 490 
NIJ -3:56 
19 ....t;Q!Uo~ 8-3 392
LoVocchlo 1-yd. run 
Setta klck28-14 20 i' '"iIHoi'lb·•• 8-3 378 
4th 12t!'1~!t1t,1l\e1t1ee+1 .••.•.•.•••.•. ·•..... .281 22·.. !il~9Jofaoostat& .> 249 ­
USC-14:56 23 Liluisvill e . . 137
Harris 10-yd. pan 
24 .. ::ueorgla

from Palmer 92 
Bell kick. 28·21 61
25 Toledo . ,. ,1 D·,l 13 ),;; ND ~ Hunter 2-57, Givens 2-35, Getherall 1-18, O'Leary 1-14, 
N/J 12:09
Fisher 1-8, Howard 1-8, Jones 1-2 
Salta 39-yd. field goal 'vqtesr Mi$$i$!1iPPI Slate
other teams receivin[fVo~:TexatA&IYl:~ !W 
31-21
use~ Harris 6-62, Kelly 4-91, MacKenzie 3-44, Stevenson 1­
p13a;rex~~ .. M37, south ~arollna 31,
S.outfl Carolina42, Mississippi 34.Wisconsln.27, ,,J NIJ -2:57
31, Colbert 1-8, Nickels 1-8, Holmes 1-7 
Jones 2-yd. run 8,Wiscons1,21, Westem Michigan 23, NC
Iowa State 25, LSU18, Missls.sipJHState 18, Air '' Fotce 11, Western Michigan 7, 80jsl) State ~.\/. ;~i leading tacklers 
Setta kick. 38-21 burgb 9,Jff1;1' 9, Air Foree ll, Boise State 7,Soulti'~rn Miss. 7;Fresno State 3, East C.arollna 1
PiU$burgh 5, NC St,\te 3, Ar~ll~l;;~i!!,~~'~'~l!ii11ts;1li2, ND ~ Williams 6, Denman 6, Driver 5, Scott 4, Israel 4 It, :,iL::m:m::m$\t,tlii.i !'!r lililfaiihi . •... );; .•. use -Polmalu 14, Moreno 14, Davis 7, Riley 5, Graham 4 
~HE 

Notre Dame at USC vnSERVER Tuesday, November 28, 2000 

PETER AICHARDSONrThe Observer 
Irish safety Tony Driver returns a second-quarter interception 43 yards before Trojan quarterback Carson Palmer tackled him at the Trojan 19-yard line. 
HUNGRY FOR A FIESTA 
With chants of "BCS! BCS!" echoing from the stands, the Notre Dame players raised their helmets in victory at the Colesium for the first time since 1992. The 38-21 victory made the Irish eligi­
ble for a Bowl Championship Series bid as they finished with a 9­2 record and are currently ranked in the top 12 of the latest BCS standings. While no official BCS bowl pairings will be announced until Sunday, two members of the Fiesta Bowl selection commit­tee were seen at Saturday's game and expressed great interest in the Irish playing in Tempe on New Year's Day. If the Irish lock up a Fiesta Bowl Bid, it would be their third trip to the bowl and their first since 1995. 
-



Tt1esday, November 28, 2000 page l 5 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Boys show off new sense of maturity in new album 
By LAURA ROMPF Scene Music Criri~ 
A lot has happen since the summer of 1999, when the Backstreet Boys released its sophomo,re album Millennium. The single "I Want. H That Way" Look the country by storm. and landed in the top 10 of the Holling Slone/MTV Top 100 Pop Songs of all time. 
Boys Brian Littrell and Kevin Hichardson proposed to their long-term girlfriends and got married. BSB's rival boy band, *NSYNC, released its second album, Nu Strings Attached, which slutttered record sales, selling 2.4 million copies in the first week. 
So, nearly a year and a half later, the Boys have a lot to prove with the release of their Lhird album, 13lack and 
Blue. 
Was "I Want It That Way" the group's musical peak? Or can the Boys get even bigger'? Does growing "old" and get­ting married hurt sales among their primary audience? And finally, will this album sell at *NSYNC's level? Or will the Boys have to settle for No. 2 in the world of boy bands? 
The firsl release off Black and Blue. "Shape of My Heart," is des­tine to be a hil. 
, Black and Blue Already at No. 9 
on Billboard's Top 100, the song is consis­tently No. 1 on MTV's TRL video request show. Its medi­um tempo and catchy lyrics will have audiences singing along in no time. 
The Boys newly released single, "The Call" is about a young gentle­man who's out for a night of clubbing with his buds and meets a girl. Eventually, he ends up calling his girlfriend at home to tell her 


: Backstreet Boys 
Jive Records 
Rating 

...... 


UPCOMING CONCERTS 
South Bend 

SR.;.71 
lieiR1anif ·•·· Chns Goddard Luta•s 
Indianapolis 





Noe Yoaue Theater Barenaked ladies Conseco Marilyn Manson Nurat Theater John Hiatt Yoaue Theater Nedeski Martin 
and Wood ¥09ue Theater·· 
Chicago 

Smashins·Pumpklins Uniied Cenier Traatcally Hip VIC ..PaviUon Are•ha Franklin · House olBlues Narilyn Manson UIC Pavilion Buffalo Tom Metro NXPX Vic Theater Joe Jackson· 
Ri¥h.~t-a <: 0)i/.. Squ•rrel ¦uc zjppers House of.Blues. 
he's not coming home anytime soon, "Listen Baby I'm sorry, jusl wanna tell you don't worry/ I will be late, don't stay up and wait for me." Although it's about a complete play­er, it's a lively song, perfect for dancing. 
"Get Another Boyfriend" and "Nol For Me" are the album's other two upbeat songs. Both are good party hits with lyrics simple enough for anyone to sing along easily. These two tracks provide some much needed variety on the ballad-heavy album. 
In an attempt to silence many of their critics, the Boys wrote, or co-wrote, six of the 13 songs on Black and Blue. "Time" is a col­laboration of all five Boys and was pro­duced by Babyface. The song describes the Boys' road to stardom. "Time, look where we are and what we've been through. Time, sharing our dream. Time, goes on and on everyday. Time is what it is, come what may." 
All five Boys also wrote the song "The Answer to Our Life." And though the song's beat is catchy, its lyrics sound more like Christian rock than that from their normal fun party hits. 
And while these songs are decent, their cheesy lyrics may give the band's critics even more to complain about than before Lhe boys even starting writing their own music. 
The album also includes several ballads, one of which stands out from the rest. "Yes I Will," co-written by Boy 
A.J. McLean, is beautiful and ½ill likely be heard at wed­dings across the country for years to come. "Yes I will, take your hand and walk with you. Baby, I promise you. Yes I will, give you everything you need and someday start a family with you." 

Nov.10 · De·c·.4 Dec.4 ..... Dec. 7. 
·\•eil ~•~.n,, ·a:-,.11~nc1,.....an.~<R~1a•1ves • 
".· s ' .:,:,-·..',: . ..
:11oa•e1'\11ock:'.yo111rne I 
Dec.·10 

11ci·aer Waters L In the Flesh Eve -Scorpjon 
Nov.29 
December 12 ,. 
Dec. I ,;. ,.,..
·:,.:,•, ,. 

'?'· ''"':)·:\::·.,,,_-:-·. ·_· .. ,,-:": ':,,:_·:::
Dec. I & 2 

Dec. 2. Xzllbjt • Res•less Dec. J SHvercha•r-Th,. Bes-c Of ... Vol • Dec. a 
iti\;cf¾ .·ff ,~ -,~i!"·~·.."·"~'·· ·. >;,·•. . . .
·~"';;"•""• .. Dract.Ja tQOO Soqndcrack
Dec. ti· 

This ballad could have been even more charming if the entire album wasn't full of ballads. Perhaps the Boys have matured, and these songs about commitment and mar­riage reflect their current stage in life. However, while that seems to be a nice sentiment, it provides for very little variet)' on the album as a whole. 
So to answer the questions -does any song on Black and Blue compare to "I Want It That Way?" Well, if it doesn't, "Shape of My Heart" comes very close. It's appeal is universal, tempting audiences of all ages to tum up the radio and sing along. 
Will the Boys' age make a difference in their album sales? It has created a more mature sound on Black and Blue, but this is what separates the boys from other acts like *NSYNC, 98 Degrees and BBMak. 
And finally, will Black and Blue break records? Only "Time" can answer that question, and as the Boys them­selves say, "Time is what it is, come what may." 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 28, 2000 
NFL 
Sacks take toll on Tampa Bay's King 
Associated Press 
TAMPA. Fla. 

Tampa Bay quarterback Shaun King sat out Monday's workout because of lower bat:k strain, but expects to play against the Dallas Cowbovs this weekend. 
The· second-year pro was sacked seven times during Sunday's '.H-17 victory over the Buffalo Bills and four times the previous week by the Chicago Bears. and the pounding is beginning to take a toll. 
''It tightened up at some point during the game. It's one of those things that just happened," King said. "It had been sore earlier, but nothing like that. It's just my back getting old." 
Dungy said the injury did not occur on any particular play, attributing the soreness to the usual wear and tear of a season. If King cau 't practice Wednesday, backup Eric Zeier will work with the starting offense in preparation for the Cowboys. 
"I don't think it was any one particular blow or anything that happened. It's just something he's complained about the last few weeks and it seems to be getting a little bit worse," Dungy said. 
"We'll probably know more Wednesday.... This is the worst he's felt after a game. I know he's had some X-rays and they've looked at it and we're getting some opinions on it and they don't seem to have pinpoint­ed exactly what it is." 
Although King has only thrown for 197 yards the past two weeks, the problems the Bucs had moving the ball against the Bills and Bears were not related to the quarterback's health. Tampa Bay only gained 180 yards against Buffalo with Warrick Dunn accounting for most of that with 106 rushing 
and 23 receiving. 
Defensive tackle Warren Sapp called attention to the offense's difficulties last week, criticizing offensive coordinator Les Steckel's system and play-calling and saying the unit lacked an identity. 
"I guess I don't have all the answers for why our passing game has struggled the last two weeks or we would have gotten it corrected and we would have thrown for 500 yards," Dungy said. 
"I think we know what we want to do and I think we can't lose sight of how we win and we can't worry if media-types think that passing for 60 (net) yards and winning 31-17 is bad. We happPn to think it's good." 
Uungy, who reiterated that he would have preferred Sapp air his frustration in private rather than the media, disputed the contention that the ilucs have yet to establish an identity on offense. 
"I think we have an identity. I think our players know what that is and hopefully we'll continue to build on that," the coach said, adding that Sunday's victory in which several players made sig­nificant contributions was a per­fect of example of how Tampa Bay likes to win. 
"When we're playing well, that's how we play. Everybody contributes. You never know who it's going to be. This week it was Karl Williams and David Gibson and the defensive line and the next week it may be someone else," Dungy said. 
"When it's going well, that's how it is. We can't rely on Derrick Brooks and Keyshawn Johnson every week. You expect big plays from your stars. But to be a good team you ve got to get it from everybody when it's need­ed. and when you get it from everybody you become a good team." 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

USC fires Hackett after 3 seasons 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES 
Paul Hackett was fired as Southern California's coach Monday after three seasons of mediocrity at a school that has won eight national championships. 
The dismissal came two days after the Trojans com­pleted their first losing sea­son since 1991 and just their third in the last 39 years. 
"Paul's a very nice human being, someone who I thought was a great leader for our kids," athletic direc­tor Mike Garrett said at a news conference in his office. "I'm sorry it didn't work out. It was not an easy decision. We have failed. Our whole objective now is to improve." 
Hackett, the fourth USC coach to be fired since 1986, had two years remaining on the five-year contract he signed in 1997 to succeed John Robinson. 
It's believed Hackett, an assistant under Robinson at USC from 1976-80, is being paid a buyout estimated at $800,000. 
The Trojans had a 19-18 record under the 53-year­old Hackett, including 5-7 this season. 
"For someone who's given three years of his life and for the last six months hasn't slept or eaten, I'm very disappointed," Hackett said. 'Tm disappointed we don't get a chance to contin­ue this and complete this, I felt things were headed in the right direction. 
"There's no question we took our lumps this year. In the time allotted, we didn't get a chance to make the kind of progress Mike Garrett wanted. I'm sure he'll do the right thing for 
"For someone who ·s 
given three years ofhis 
life andfor the last six 
months hasn't slept or 
eaten. rm very 
disappointed. I'm 

disappointed we don't 
get a chance to continue 
this and complete this. I 
felt things were headed 
in the right direction" 
Paul Hackett fonner USC head coach 
the university." 

Hackett and Garrett met on campus Sunday night and again Monday morning to finalize details of the firing. 
Garrett, who won the Heisman Trophy as a run­ning back at USC in 1965, said he didn't make the decision solely on the Trojans· record. 
"Kids weren't progressing, weren't developing," he said. "All of us have gone through a lot of pain, a lot of suffering. When we don't beat people, it's painful." 
Garrett said a search for Hackett's successor would begin immediately, and he hoped to find one "as soon as possible." 
Garrett wouldn't identify potential candidates, but responded favorably when three names were men­tioned -Oregon State coach Dennis Erickson, Wisconsin coach Barry Alvarez, and Mike Riley, a former USC assistant now coaching the San Diego Chargers. 
Garrett said he has already received calls from interested parties, but wouldn't say how many. 
He also said no calls have 
been made since the deci­sion to fire Hackett only came a day earlitir, and that it's unlikely he'll look at a coordinator. 
Hackett was offensive 
coordinator for the Kansas 
City Chief's when he was 
hired. 

"Hight now, I'm looking for the best coach." Carrett said. "lie could be in Cucamonga, I would go sec him. I'm not excluding any­
one." 

Oregon State athletic director Mitch Barnhardt told XTHA radio in San Diego he would give USC permission to interview Erickson if' Garrett request­ed it. 
Erickson has been offered a contract extension, but hasn't signed it. 
The fifth-ranked Beavers (10-1) have been one of col­lege football's biggest sur­prises this season. 
Hiley, who has three years left on his contract with the Chargers, told XTHA he wanted to concentrate on his job in San Diego. 
"I want them to want me here, that would be great for me," said Hiley, whose team has a 1-11 record. 
The Trojans wound up tied for the cellar in the Pac-10 with a 2-6 record, including losses at home to California and Washington State. 
"In this day and age, you've got to make it happen quick," Hackett said. "We didn't make it happen quick enough, we didn't make the improvement we needed to make." 
USC has won eight nation­al championships, but none since 1978. 
The Trojans have played in 28 Rose Bowl games, win­ning 20, but have played in only one since beating Michigan 17-10 on Jan. 1, 1990. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS
-
PART TIME HELP WANTED  VOTE FOR NOTRE DAME IN  COLLEGE SCHOLARSHIPS  This may be a little off-par, but how  
FOR RENT  LOST & FOUND  Prof. Male, Granger area, needs after-school/domestic help, for 2 teenage boys, mon ­fri about 20  TOURNEY OF TRADITIONS I Goto  300,000+ private sector scholar­ships available for undergraduate and graduate students at accredit- much do you think I can bench press?  
hrs a week. Non-smoking, fun-lov­ http./ /promotions. go. com/espn/tosti­ ed colleges in the USA regardless  Hey, is that dog faster than a grey- 
HOUSE FOR LEASE 7/01  LOST: MAN'S WEDDING RING  ing, with upbeat disposition a must  tos/frontpage. html  of their GPA, finances, age or citi­ hound? If you put a jockey on them  
4/5 bedrm. 3 blocks to campus.  IN SOUTH DINING HALL AREA  Cooking, cleaning, laundry & groc.  and vote for ND in ESPN.com's  zenship. Write or call for FREE  and got them running, who would  
773-486-8822  ON MONDAY, NOV. 13.  PLEASE  Shopping. Inquiries w/ ref. To  Tourney of Traditions!  information and application.  win?  
CALL KEITH AT 1-6147  PO BOX 2931  Vote now for ND to advance  Scholarship Database Service  
3.4 & 6 BDRM HOMES  REWARD!!!  SOUTH BEND, IN 46680  through the top 16 to win  P.O. Box432  We both love soup. And snow  
FURN. NOW & 2001-02.  No.1 for the school with the best  Notre Dame. IN 46556-0432  peas  
272-6306.  LOST: GOLD HEART & CZ.  BABYSITTER WANTED  football tradition.  Barnyard8961 @hotmail com  
BRACELET AT ND-BC GAME,  EVENING & WEEKENDS, POSSI·  While you're there, enter for a  1-800-936-3706  I want to try that less is more style  
HOUSES FOR RENT  SECTION 32 GIFT TO MY WIFE,  BLY EVERY SATURDAY 8-6 IN  chance to win a trip for up to  of acting, where, when you're talk­ 
2001-2002  HUGE SENTIMENTAL VALUE.  THE FUTURE. MUST HAVE A  1Opeople to the 2001  Interested in meeting someone  ing to tile person, you look at them,  
10 BEDROOMS•  IF FOUND. PLEASE CONTACT  LOVE FOR CHILDREN, IMAGINA•  Tostitos Fiesta Bowl in  new? Call 233-0861.  but when you're not talking, you  
4 BATHS  ME@ DUBE.1@ND.EDU  TIVE & RELIABLE. 3-YEAR-OLD  Tempe, Arizona.  look away, and then, when you're  
3 KITCHENS  BOY. SCOTTSDALE MALL AREA  GoNDI  Pepper -We haven't forgotten  talking you  
Lost: a men's brown jacket.  INQUIRIES W/REF TO:  about you! When are you coming  
5BEDROOMS  If found, please call  246-1558.  PO BOX 2931  FAX IT FASTI!!  back to visit? We miss you. So do  Make Fern City proud.  
2 BATHS  Thank you  SOUTH BEND IN 46680  Tandem, GK, and Poncho! Tallulah  
GREAT FRONT PORCH  Sending & Receiving at  says hello, too.. She could destoy  The person who needs you the  
LOST  Black pea coat w/Pentax  you. Get back here. -Budget  most is Blaine Fabin, and I'm not  
BOTH HOUSES HAVE WASHERS, DRYERS AND ALARM SYSTEMS  camera in pocket. Please call Kristin @ 2871 or return to Lyons  FOR SALE  THE COPY SHOP  Taurus, watch out for today,  iust saying that because I am a Fabin. No one else can touch that  
Hall rectress, no questions asked.  Lafortune Studem Center  whole thing. like you can.  
....  CALL KRAMER 234-2436 OR CELL 274-1501.  PHONE CARDS $201558 MIN.  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  Were you born with pizzazz today?  That whole thing.  
ONLY 3 HOUSES LEFT,  WANTED  CALL 284-5145 or 258-4805  FAX IT FAST!!!  You must be very proud, Mary  Kerry, your hat is probably infected  
4,5,6 bdrm, furn, sec.sys!, w/d  Our friends Barbara and Bush went  with all kinds of lice.  
PRIME Locations. Util. Included 233-9947  South Bend Senior Hockey League Not too late to join a team for this  PERSONAL  EARN$$$$ at Saint Mary's Madrigal Dinners  to Peking, you know, where they make the duck.  I really hope not  I'll be pretty mad  
seasonl Players of all e><perience  Theatrical performance requires  at you.  
5 bdrm. 2 bath, completely remod­ levels are welcome.  NO PLANS FOR THE HOLIDAYS?  female servers/actresses  Section 22 is the place to be.  
eled 8/00,  new furnace, roof, car­ -No Check Rules  NEW YEARCS?  on Dec. 1, 2, 3;  It's freezing outside  
pet, appl., W/0, security & more.  -Ice Box Skating Rink  Vaca1ion in Chicago for $22/night.  5-11 p.m  When is the mall going to open a  and I would really like  
Horne is on 3 lots.  Alum owned,  -Games Played Once Per Week  Stay at Hostelling lntOI -Chicago.  (also 12-6 p.m. on Dec. 3)  Mujl store? I think this town needs  to wear it.  
must see.  Contact Bill Lerman at 236-5107  Call 312/360-0300. www.hichica­ some functional. understated office  
240-0322 ­ Jason  Billl@sleelwarehouse.ne1  go.erg.  $6.25/hr-paid before Christmas  supplies  Thanks for the interview Tony  
~ -- -- - ---- - - -- - -- - --.­--f  

Tuesday, November 28, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Kennedy reasserts innocence 
. Co-defendant in Carruth murder trial set to retake stand today 
Associated Pres• 
CHARLOTrE, N.C 

A co-defendant in Rae Carruth's murder trial said Monday he rejected plea agree­ments twice because he was innocent in the killing of the for­mer pro football player's preg­nant girlfriend. 
Michael Eugene Kennedy. one of three co-defendants, said he thought Carruth and the con­fessed triggerman, Van Brett Watkins, should be held accountable in the killing last year ofCherica Adams. Kennedy testified for prosecutors and was due back on the stand Tuesday morning. 
"I have no motive and neither does Stanley," Kennedy said, referring Lo another co-defon­dan t, Stanley Drew "Hoss" Abraham. 
Kennedy has testified he was driving a car carrying Abraham and Watkins, who shot Adams as she sat in her own car where it was stopped behind Carruth's vehicle. 
Kennedy said he felt Carruth had threatened his life. After the slaying, he said, Carruth told him not to talk to police. 
Adams was eight months pregnant with Carruth's child when she was shot Nov. 16, 1999, in what prosecutors said was a trap laid by Carruth to avoid having to pay child sup­port. 
Carruth, at the time a member of the Carolina Panthers, has denied involvement in the shoot­ing. 
"I have four children," Kennedy said. "Unlike Rae, I would never kill them or pay somebody to kill them.... Some people might call me a snitch for what I did, but I'm pretty sure nobody in their right mind would have gone down for something they didn't do." 
Kennedy said Carruth paid Watkins to shoot Adams. He also said Carruth gave him $100 to buy a gun. 
The 26-year-old Carruth could be executed if convicted of arranging Adams' shooting. Adams, 24, gave birth to a son, then died a month later, The boy is in the custody of Adams' mother. 
Watkins has confessed to shooting ,A.dams, pleaded guilty to second-degree murder and agreed to testify against Carruth. 
Carruth 's defense has claimed Watkins shot Adams in anger because Carruth reneged on a promise to pay for drugs and because she made an obscene gesture at Watkins from her car. 
Kennedy and Abraham are to be tried separately on murder charges. 
On cross-examination, Kennedy admitted to selling drugs, but said he was forced to do it because he was out of work. 
"l had lost my job and I did it every once in a while," he told defense lawyer David Rudolf, who tried to discredit Kennedy's testimony. 

For more than two hours. Rudolf attempted to impeach Kennedy as a credible witness, asking him questions about past drug dealing and his role in the 1994 shooting of another drug dealer. 
Ile tried unsuccessfully to get Kennedy to say he was testifying without a plea agreement in hopes of earning a more lenient sentence when he goes on trial. 
"I just want that family to know the truth," Kennedy said, looking at Cherica Adams' rela­tives in the courtroom. 
At the end of the day, with the jury gone. Superior Court Judge Charles Lamm upheld a motion by witness Candace Smith, who wanted to prevent her face from being shown on Court TV or in still photographs when she testi­fies. 
According to published reports, Smith, a former girl­friend of Carruth, told police he said he disliked Adams so much he wished she was dead. Smith also said Carruth told her he had seen Adams shot and left the scene worrying that he would be implicated. 
As testimony opened Monday, Kennedy repeated parts of his testimony from last week's two days of trial to refresh the mem­ories of jurors who had a long holiday weekend off. 
He said Carruth told him to follow as he and Adams drove in separate vehicles. Carruth said a friend would be in Kennedy's car who "would know what to do," Kennedy testified. 
He said Carruth had talked to him prior to the killing about wanting to avoid child support payments. 
NFL 
Smith plans to play 
.....

despi_te concussion 
and coach Dave Campo said 
Associated Press 
that the running back was held out of practice for pre­IRVING, Texas cautionary reasons.
Emmitt Smith had never "Emmitt should be fine,"been knocked unconscious 
Campo said. "We were goingin Pop Warner football, high to do some hitti·ng out thereschool. college or 11 years with pads on, so we felt forwith the Dallas Cowboys. 
a precautionary reason to
But on Thanksgiving Day, 
keep him out of there. lie
it happened, and he wound 
up with a concussion after being hit in the third quar­ter of the Cowboys' loss to tb.e Minnesota Vikings. 
"Some people call it a concus­sion. l call it a slap knockout." Smith said Monday, 

Thursday, November 30th Layortune Ba111oom 
The fast growing jam band from Chicago 
talking to reporters for the first time about the experi­ence. 
Smith didn't practice Monday, but ran some sprints and expects to go through a full practice when the Cowboys return to the field Wednesday. He said 
-there is no doubt that he will be in the lineup Sunday at Tampa Bay. Smith, who has missed only three games in his career because of injury, 
10pm -lam 
returns to their Notre Dame roots for a rare all ages treat Don't miss this chance to see them 1n an up-close, intimate environment 

www.nd.edu/-sub 

Tix available at the Lafortune box office 

should  be  fine  for  the  
game."  
"The first thing I  S m i t h said he has  
remember is being up in  not experi­ 
the locker room. I don't  enced  any  
even remember walking  nausea or any linger­ 
offthe field. walking to  ing  side  

effects, He

the sideline or walking up 
said he had

the tunnel." 
only a cou­ple of minor headaches

Emmitt Smith 
over the

Cowboys' running back 
weekend 
but felt fine 

a-Cter run­ning Monday. 
Smith suffered the concus­sion early in the third quar­ter Thursday when he took a handoff right, was slowed by safety Robert Griffith and then hit helmet-to-helmet by linebacker Ed McDaniel. The collision spun Smith around, causing him to fumble the ball and land flat on his back. 
After sitting up and being helped off the field by train­ers, Smith even asked one of his helpers if he had been knocked out. 
But he remembered none of that Monday. 
"The first thing I remem­ber is being up in the locker room. I don't even remem­ber walking off the field, walking to the sideline or walking up the tunnel," Smith said. "I remember being in the locker room, somebody was cutting the tape off of my shoe." 
Smith has watched tape of the play. He doesn't think he was knocked out by the head-to-head blow from McDaniel as has been specu­lated, and said he had taken some other hard shots in the game. 
"Right during the hit, there was one blow from the inside left that caught me in the back of the neck. It caught me just right," Smith said. 
"I took two shots before that one shot that probably set that shot up," he said. "The very first hit of the game was one that took a whole lot out of me. Then I took another shot and had to come to the sideline and smell some smelling salt. When I get back out there, my brain is already soft." 
Smith finished with 100 yards on 12 carries, includ­ing a season-long 52-yarder 
Keep recycling working. Buy recycled. 
For a free brochure, please call 1-800-2-RECYCLE or visit www.environmenta.ldefense.org 
e 
eNVIRONMeNTAL DeFeNSI! 
lindi"g lh.e WIY!I lh•I wo,k 
page 18 

The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 28, 2000 
NFL 



Beurlein's passing leads Carolina to win 
Associated Pre» 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. 
Steve Heuerlein has felt per­
sonally responsible for several 
Carolina losses this season. On 
Monday, he was a major rea­
son the Panthers won. 
Beuerlein overcame two 
turnovers to pass for 24:-! yards 
and three touchdowns to lead 
the Panthers to a 31-14 victory 
over the Green Bay Packers. 
Beucrlein, who only had 13 
turnovers all of last season. 
came into the game with 19 
this year. He'd also been 
sacked a league-high 45 times. 
The poor numbers caused the 14-year veteran to take responsibility for several set­backs~ especially a 20-10 loss to New Orleans this month, when he gave up the bull five times. 
Against the Packers, it looked like Beuerlein's turnovers would again hurt Carolina (5­7). He threw two first-quarter touchdown passes to put Carolina up 14-0, but negated those with a fumble and inter­ception in the second quarter that led to Green Bay TDs. 
As Beuerlein dropped back to pass early in the second quar­ter, LeRoy Butler pushed the ball out of his hands directly into Nate Wayne's open arms. Green Bay scored 44 seconds later, when Ahman Green ran 
26 yards untouched into the 
end zone to make it 14-7. 
Beuerlein later wasted fan­
tastic field position when he 
was intercepted at the 10-yard 
line. 
The Panthers got the ball 
when Ken Walters' punt 
dropped between Allen Rossum 
and Mike t\IcKenzie, and the 
ball then bounced up and hit 
McKenzie. Carolina's Karl 
Hankton pounced on it and the 
Panthers had the ball at the 20. 
But Beuerlein was picked off three plays later by Tyrone Williams. who returned it 46 yards. Packers quarterback Hrett Favre then hit Donald Driver with a 32-yard touch­down pass that tied it 14-14 with 2:02 to play in the half. 
Beuerlein finished 22-of-37 with two turnovers and two more sacks. But he came up big when it counted, and for tho second year in a row hurt the Packers' bid !'or the play­offs. 
A year ago, he scored on a 5­yard touchdown run as time expired to rally Carolina to a 33-31 win. Several Green Bay players later said that loss cost them a shot at the postseason. 
This year. Green Bay (5-7) needed to win to keep their slim hopes alive. The Packers must now win out -against Chicago, Detroit, Minnesota and Tampa Bay -to have a chance to make the playoffs. 

SOCIAL CONCERNS 

"be the change you want 
to see in the world'' 
-Ghandi 

THE SUMMER SERVICE PROJECT 
• 
Devote 8 weeks to the service of those in need 

• 
Choose from 120 sites across the United States 


• Earn 3 theology credits (with possible crosslists) 
• 
Receive a $1900 tuition scholarship with the option for an additional $1000 Americorps Scholarship 

• 
Establish valuable contacts with Notre Dame Alumni 


Fina( lnfor1rv.a+iona( Mee+ing of +his Serv.es+er1 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 30 at 7:00 PM 
.At the Center for Social Concerns 
APPLICATIONS DUE NOVEMBER 27. 2000 FOR STUDENTS STUDYING ABROAD THIS SPRING 



Tuesday, November 28, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
========::::::::::::================================================================================================~~ 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Vols earn fourth win over TCU 
Associated Press 
FORT WORTH, Texas 

April McDivitl scored 14 points, including five straight to put Tennessee ahead for good, as the No. 2 Lady Vols overcame a sluggish start and beat Texas Christian 83-61 Monday night. 
Tennessee ( 4-0), which had a 16-hour flight delay after winning the Maui Women's Tournament and didn't get to Fort Worth until early Monday morning, took control of the game with a 16-0 run near the end of the first half. 
Tamika Catchings started the game-deciding spurt with a layup that tied the game 25­25 with 4:56 left in the nrst half. McDivitt followed with five points in less than a minute. 
!\lcDivitt made two free 
throws, and after TCU (1-1) 
missed a shot, she made one 
of her four 3-pointers. 
She also had another 3­
pointer later as Tennessee 
went up :19-25. 
After the Lady Frogs cut their deficit to 56-48 on Kim Walter's strong inside move with 12:35 left, they went scoreless for five minutes. 
Ashley Robinson had a cou­ple of inside baskets and McDivitt another 3-pointer as the Lady Vols scored 12 straight points to lead 68-48 with just over 7 1/2 minutes left. 
Tennessee coach Pat Summitt scheduled the game to allow Catchings to play in front of her family from near­by Duncanville, Texas. 
The game was also a home-
Michigan CityOutlet Mall bus 
departure point: Library Circle meeting time: 09:45am return time: 05:00pm mode: chartered buses toll: $2 

coming for Robinson, a fresh­man who is from Grand Prairie, Texas. 
Catchings had 1l points and nine rebounds. Hobinson scored 13 points, the highest total in her short career. 
Tricia Payne led TCU with 13 points, while Kati SafariLova and Amy Porter had 10 each. 
The game was played before a crowd of 7,262. the largest ever to watch a basketball game -men's or women's ­on the TCU campus. About one-third of those were wear­ing Tennessee orange. 
Tennessee won the first M_aui Women's Tournament by beating Illinois 111-62 Saturday. When their flight was canceled, the Lady Vols slept in the airport and finally chei;ked into their hotel about 1 a.m. Monday. 
No. 20 Virginia 116, St. Francis 63 
Svellana Vonaya si;ored 21 points and Virginia shot 63 
percent from the flour  as  the  
No.  20  Cavaliers  beat  St.  
Francis, Pa.  

Chalois Lias added 17 points for Virginia (4-2). Schuye LaRue had 16 points, eight rebounds and seven assists. Telisha Quarles scored 13 points and Marcie Dickson added 11 points in only 11 minutes. 
Beth Barnabei scored 23 points to lead St. Francis (0­3). 
Virginia hit 65 percent of its 3-point attempts, including 7­of-11 in the first half', when the Cavaliers raced to a 59-28 lead. 

St. Francis shot 42 percent from the floor and committed 27 turnovers to the Cavaliers' 10. 
No. 7 Georgia 85, Georgia Southern 57 
Deanna Nolan scored a sea­son-high 19 points and added a career-high seven assists to lead No. 7 Georgia over Georgia Southern. 
Center Tawana McDonald had 10 points, 10 rebounds and blocked a career-high six shots. 
Georgia (3-2} shook up its starting lineup after three sluggish starts in four games. Three seniors -Nolan, Coco Miller and Tiaunna Briggans -watched at the beginning as Keisha Brown. Camille Murphy and Christi Thomas started, 
The Lady Dogs never trailed, but it was 10 minutes into the game before they pulled away from the Lady Eagles (2-2). 
With Georgia nursing a 20­17 lead midway through the half, Thomas started a 17-6 run with a turnaround jumper in the lane and a put-back. Nolan's jumper in the lane at 
3:13 put Georgia up 37-23. Georgia led 41-29 at the half. 
Georgia Southern's Sharon Mitchell scored 11 of her 13 points in the first half. 
The Lady Dogs put the game away with an 18-2 run early in the second half with seven points from Nolan, building to a 63-33 lead with 12:32 remaining. 
Georgia also got 12 points from Miller and 10 from 
Thomas. 

tickets: available at lafun info desk 11/20 
trip 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
Beamer plans to return to Hokies 
Associated Press 
BLACKSBURG, Va. 

North Carolina's whirlwind courtship of Frank Beamer is over, and Virginia Tech and its football coach are still together. 
Beamer said Monday that he will return for a 15th season as coach of the No. 6 Hokies, ending a frantic day and a half that included an interview with North Carolina athletic director Dick Baddour, a widely reported job offer from the Tar Heels for as much as $1.4 million and a series of meetings with Virginia Tech officials. 
"What I really want to du is keep this thing going here," Beamer said at a news conference, "Sometimes it just takes you a little time to realize what a special thing we have here." 
Virginia Tech boosted Beamer's salary by 25 per­cent, to more than $1 mil­lion. He also will receive a $200,000 bonus if the Hokies earn a Bowl Championship Series berth, $100,000 for any other bowl invitation. 
"This is the university doing what it feels is right," Virginia Tech athletic direc­tor Jim Weaver said. "The university feels strongly that Frank Beamer should be among the highest paid coaches in the country, because he certainly is one of the best, if not the best." 
But Beamer said money was not the biggest consid­eration. 
"There's been a lot of talk here about money, but I can tell you relationships and the guys we have here in this program and the people I have helping me in this program is what's really important," he said. 
Beamer's assistants also will benefit. Virginia Tech added $100,000 to raise assistant coaches' salaries. 
"I wanted to make sure our coaching staff was com­pensated at a level that was the highest in the country because I think they are the best in the country," Beamer said. 


His success at Virginia Tech has made him a fre­quent target of other pro­grams, with Clemson and Alabama among the schools that have courted him. 
He was the near-consen­sus national coach of the year last season after lead­ing the Hokies to an 11-0 regular season record and the national championship game. 
The Hokies capped a 10-1 regular season on Saturday with a 42-21 victory against rival Virginia, and are in contention for a BCS berth. It would be their fourth trip to a major bowl in six years. the best such stretch in school history, and high­lights the Hokies' remark­able turnaround. 
Beamer. nearly fired in 1992 after compiling a 24­39-2 record in his first six seasons at his alma mater, has guided the Hokies to a 74-21 record since. Tech will extend its bowl streak to eight years this season, has won three Big East champi­onships in the past five sea­sons and become a fixture in the national polls. 
For a time Monday. it looked as if Beamer was leaning toward the Tar Heels, who have a glistening new athletic facility and a football history similar to Virginia Tech's. 
Earlier in the day, Virginia Tech defensive coordinator Bud Foster said Beamer met with his staff and was 
.,,.. 

"struggling" with the possi­bility of leaving after 14 sea­sons. 
"I think the bottom line is we're with him whatever he decides," said Foster, a member of Beamer's coach­ing staff' since 1981. when both were at Murray State. 
"He has a lot of loyalty to his staff and with his staff," said Foster, who turned down Florida's defensive coordinator job before last season. "He's a guy that knows how to run a success­ful program, it's not one guy. We as his assistants appreciate that." 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 28, 2000 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Griffin shines as No. 8 Seton Hall crushes St. Peters 
utes of the second half. as Governors would get the rest remaining in the game, draw­Owls into nearly as many
Associated P rc•s 

Kansas built its 17-point half­of the way. ing to within five points on a first-half turnovers (15) as time lead to 67-37. Tennessee pulled away with 3-pointcr by Patrick Jackson, they scored points (17). EAST RUTHEBFOB.D, N.J. Fernando Ortiz hit three 3-a. 23-9 run to finish the first which made the score 46-41. Meanwhile, Florida suffered 
Freshman forward Eddie pointers and scored 12 points half with a 17-point lead. But several minutes later, no early malaise, the way Griffin had his third double­to lead Middle Tennessee (1-Harris led the first-half Butler's Jackson made two some Learns do when they double in as many games, get­1), which shot just 39 percent charge with 15 points and consecutive 3-pointers to know they've got an over­ting 26 points. 21 rebounds (22-for-57) from the field. nine assists. During the run boost the Bulldogs lead back matched opponent. They and seven blocked shots as Freddie Martinez and Bryant he connected with Victor on up to 12. They never looked scored 13 of the first 15 points No. 8 Seton Hall beat St. Mitchell added 11 points each three straight alley oops, with back from there. and led 41-8 with 6 minutes Peter's 104-85 Monday night. for the Blue Haiders, and Lee the third ma.king it 39-27 with Theron Smith led Ball State left in the first half. Within 15 
The 6-foot-9 Griffin, one of Nosse had 10. 4:51 remaining. with 14 points and eight minutes, Green had used four the most highly recruited high Kansas shot 51 percent (35-Ahead 51-34 at halftime, rebounds. The Cardinals out­of his five timeouts to try to school players in the nation of-69). Tennessee started the second rebounded Butler 35-25. slow the onslaught. last season out of Middle Tennessee missed half with a 19-5 run to take a Florida's only lull came mid­Philadelphia, had 18 points nine of its first 10 shots -31-point lead. A 3-pointer by way through the second half.
No. 10 Florida 100, 

-
and 16 rebounds at halftime comparnd to Kansas' 6-for-10 Hassell ended a 3 1/2-minute When Hobert Williams tipped as the Pirates (3-0) took a 57-early shooting -and trailed scoreless drought for Austin Florida Atlantic 42 in a teammate's miss to cut 38 lead. 19-6 after eight minutes. But Peay, but that would be.his In what might have been the the lead to 73-34. Gators 
He scored half the points in Ortiz hit three 3-pointers as last basket of the game. mismatch of the month. if not coach Billy Donovan sent all Seton Hall's 24-8 run to close the Blue Raiders cut Kansas' NBA scouts attended the five starters back to the scor­
the season, Matt Bonner the opening 20 minutes and lead to 28-24 with less than 6 game. the only matchup scored 21 points to lead No. er's table to check in. each basket was different as 1/2 minutes to go in the half. between Austin Peay and a 10 Florida to victory over The Gators led by 51 points ho scored on a rebound, a Collison's dunk with 6:23 current Top 25 team the rest Florida Atlantic. just four minutes later, a rally turnaround, a short jumper, a left and Axtcll's 3-pointer 20 of the regular season. Hassell, Like most big-name teams. that included an ugly little dunk, a reverse dunk on an seconds later ignited an 1J-0 who was averaging 23.2 the Gators (2-0) have a series scene -Daryl Dingle's rough alley-oop pass and a layup run for Kansas. part of a larg­points per game, had 15 of soft marks on their early intentional f'oul on Florida's 
schedule. A 2-29 finisher last
with live seconds left after his er 17-4 surge that gave the points in the first half, shoot­Udonis Haslem. As a result. teammates made four passes Jayhawks a 45-28 halftime ing 6-of-11 from the 11oor. He year in the Trans-America Haslem went after Dingle, but to get the ball in perfect posi­lead. made just two more baskets Athletic Conference. Florida was restrained by his team­tion for him. Both teams were plagued by the rest of the way. Atlantic (1-4) lit right in. mates. 
Darius Lane had 24 points turnovers in the first half, Tennessee is 36-2 all-time This is former UNLV and Justin Hamilton scored 12 for Seton Hall. while Samuel Middle Tennessee committing against Learns from lhe Ohio NBA star Sidney Green's sec­points and got the most high­Dalembcrt had 16 points on 8-13 and the Jayhawks 12. Each Valley Conference. ond season as coad1 of the light-reel clips out of the of-9 shooting and eight blocks team committed five turnovers program based in Boca Raton, game. He had four thundering and Ty Shine added 16 points. in the second half. and with his recruiting plans dunks, including a swooping
Butler 71, Ball State 48 

clearly in their infancy, Green
Freshman point guard Andre jam from the baseline that put
La Vall Jordan scored 20
Barrett had seven points and might still be the best player the Gators alrnad 57-17.
Marshall 77, Detroit 69 points to lead Butler over Ball 
on the Owls bench.

13 assists. Florida got 17 points each
Travis Young scored 21 State.
Seton Hall finished with a They could have used him in from Brent Wright, Haslem
points and Tamar Slay had 14 Jordan was one of four
49-23 rebound advantage uniform for this one. and Dupay. Haslem added IO
of his 19 points in the second Butler players in double fig­
against the injury-riddled The Gators recorded the rebounds. llighly touted
half as Marshall defeated ures, with Thomas Jackson 
fourth-largest victory margin
Peacocks (1-3), who were no recruit Bonell Colas saw his
Detroit. and Hylan Hainje adding 13
match inside against Griffin in program history, and first action of the season and
Marshall (2-1) won the game points each and Brandon
and Dalem bert. allowed the fewest points scored six points.
at the free-throw line, making Miller scoring 11. Hainje also since the shot clock was intro­
Melvin Robinson had 24 Jeff Cowans led Florida
22-of-26 attempts (85 per­grabbed a team-high nine
points for St. Peter's, while duced. Atlantic with 13 points, but
cent). Detroit made 5-of-9. rebounds.
Hodney Rodgers added 20. The ugliness began early -shared the same shooting
The Thundering Herd took Butler (3-0) never trailed in
St. Peter's was within 33-30 Teddy Dupay hit a 3-pointer woes as the rest of his team­
the lead for good, 67-66, on a the game and led by as many
with 5:41 left in the tirst half just 6 seconds into the game mates. lie shot 4-f'or-17, and
Slay jumper with 2:34 left to as 12 points in the first half.
when Griffin keyed the closing -and continued in full force, the Owls made just 26 percent
start a 12-0 run. Slay scored Ball State (1-2) went on a 
as the Gators trapped the
run to the first half. The of their shots from the f'ield.
six points during the run. run with about 11 minutesPirates opened the second half 
Junior college transfer
with an 11-4 run to take their 
Latece Williams added 17biggest lead. 68-42, with 
points and J.R. VanHoose had17:59 to play. 
11 for Marshall. Each had
Griffin had four points in 
nine rebounds, althoughthat run, the last coming 
Marshall was outrebounded
when he was credited with the 
48-36.
basket when Regis Devonish 
Willie Green kept the Titans
of the Peacocks batted a (3-1) in the contest with 21
rebound into his own basket. 
points on 1 O-of-15 shooting.
St. Peter's didn't quit and 
Terrell Riggs had 16 points
got within 88-77 on a 3-point­
and 13 rebounds while 
er by Devonish with 4:50 left. 
Rashad Phillips, last year's
But Barrett and Shine each Mid-Continent Conference
had a 3-pointer in a quick 8-2 player of the year, scored allburst that put Seton Hall back 16 of his points in the secondin command. 
half.
It was Seton Hall's fifth straight win over the Peacocks and 14th in their last 15 meet­No. 7 Tennessee 98, ings. Austin Peay 65 
Tony Harris scored 20 No. 2 Kansas 92, points and had a career-high 12 assists as No. 7 Tennessee
Middle Tennesse 66 
beat Austin Peay.
Jeff Boschee led a balanced 
Vincent Yarbrough scored
scoring attack for No. 2 
15 points and Marcus Haislip
Kansas with 19 points as 
added 14 for the Volunteers seven players reached double 
(4-0), who have won 32figures in the Jayhawks' win 
straight non-conference home over Middle Tennessee. 
games. Harris Walker scored
Eric Chenowith recorded his 
12 points, and Isiah Victorthird double-double of the and Jon Higgins scored 11 season for Kansas, with 15 
apiece
points and 12 rebounds, as 
Austin Peay (4-1), the pre­
the Jayhawks (6-0) outre­season pick to win the Ohio
bounded the Blue Haiders 49­Valley Conference, has never27. Point guard Kirk Hinrich 
beaten the Vols and lost for
also had a double-double with the first time this season after10 points and 10 rebounds. 
the school's best start in 15 

..... Nick Collison had 14 points, 
years.
Kenny Gregory and Luke 
Trenton Hassell, who drew
Axtell scored 11 points apiece 
20 NBA scouts to the game,in reserve roles, and Drew 
finished with 22 points. Nick
Gooden finished with 10 
Stapleton added eight points.
points for Kansas. Boschee 
Austin Peay kept the gameand Axtell had three 3-point­close early, cutting the Vols' 
ers each, and Hinrich hit both 
lead to three at 28-25 on
of his 3-point attempts. 
Kevin Easley's basket withAll three of Boschee's 3­7:33 to go before halftime.
pointers and 11 of his points 
That was as close as the 
came in the first seven min-
A 


New curricular opportunity for students in Notre Dame's International Study Program 
IN 

PUEBLA, MEXICO 2001-2002 
COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
In the Fall of 2001, Physics I, the 
equivalent of Physics 221 (WITH LAB), 
will be taught in English in Mexico to 
qualified ALPP, SCPP, BIOS, ES, SCI/BA, 
SCI/ED, and SCI/COMPUTING majors 
Enroll in SPANISH courses. participate in SOCIAL SERVICE AND complete COLLEGE and MAJOR REQUIREMENTS 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: Feb. 1, 2001 
Application on line at www.nd.edu/"'intlstud/ 
For Further Information: Contact Claudia Kselman or Carmen Nanni, International Study Programs, 201 Campus Security Building, 631-5882 
Tuesday, November 28, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
II 
• 
Ill 
• 

It really is that easy. Free, too. 
bttp://www.nd.edu/ ~observer OBSERVER 
online classifieds 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 28, 2000 
Men 
continued from page 28 
while blocking six shots and 
snagging seven boards. 
Bearcats guard Kenny 
Satterfield hit a :~-pointer to 
bring his team to within five 
at 54-49. But Graves eased in 
three of his 17 points to set off 
a 14-0 Irish spurt. Next up, 
Murphy rolled in a short 
bucket on the spin move to 
put the Irish ahead by double 
digits. 
Following a Cincinnali time­out with 4::H tu gu, Irish for­ward Ryan Ilumphrey showed some versatility, draining a jumper from the free throw line. The final four minutes were just l"or show, as Notre Dame all but had its win chalked up. 
Cincinnati couldn't generate 
any offense. shooting just 33. 
8 percent from the field. 
"We couldn't score any points," said lluggins, whose team hadn't scored fewer points since a 1993 victory over Alabama-Birmingham. The 18-point loss for Cincinnati was the largest margin of defeat since a 20­point loss to Xavier in 1997, and the third-largest of Huggins' career. 
The Irish didn't help the Bearcats' cause any, denying them second chances at the hoop. 
"We just buckled down defensively," Graves said. "We're a year wiser and a year better this year." 
In the second stanza. the Irish outrebounded the sup­posedly more athletic Bearcats squad 27-10. only allowing the Bearcats one offensive board. llumphrey dragged down 12 rebounds for Notre Dame. 10 of which came at the Bearcats' end of the court. 

"It was kind of a program game," Brey said. "Their pro­gram's thought of as better than ours. For us to start to get some respect, or to earn some of the respect we got in the preseason. we have to be able to handle these teams." 
Notre Dame's win was largely a five-man show. 

The Irish did not get a sin­gle point out of its bench, which saw little action. Of the starters Murphy, Humphrey, Graves. Matt Carroll and lngelsby -only Humphrey logged less than 37 minut11s of playing time, and that was due to his picking tw(} fouls up early (}fl. 
While the Irish walked away 
-·-------------------------.....,
. 
I I 
Earn $20/hr! 
. 
MCAT MCAT MCAT MCAT 
. '. 
Still. wai.ting for that killer test score to bring in some cash? 
Here's your chance! Call 1-888-581-8378 or _, email info.chicago@review.corn The 
for a teaching position today1  (!!incetOn  
Review  
www.review.com  1.888.581.8378  

celebrating a large victory 
over a top-ranked program, 
they didn't play their best 
basketball of the season. 
"I don't think this is the best 
this team can play," Murphy 
said. 
Notre Dame turned the ball 
over 17 times in the game, 
although only one was by 
lngclsby. The Irish shot the 
ball 40 percent. barely half as 
well as they shot in their vic­
tory over the Loyola Hamblcrs 
Wednesday. 
Notre Dame 107, 
Loyola (Chicago) 68 
Lightning rained down on 
Loyola {0-2) from 3-point land 
last Wcdnesdav, as Notre 
Dame hit a scho"ol-record 16 
treys in its cakewalk victory. 
"We had no idea they were going to shoot the ball so well from the outside," Loyola coach Larry Farmer said. "When they starteu raining [3s]. it was very difficult to match up with them." 
Carroll. a sophomore guard. led the Irish in their long-dis­tan ce shots. He hit five :;­pointers and shot 8-for-10 from the field, leading to a SportsCenter highlight saylng. "We're going to keep watch­ing until this kid misses ... and watching, and watching." 
I-le tied a career-high with 22 points and dished off a new career best nine assists to go with Ingelsby's 11. 
"No one's been more consis­tent than him," Brey said. "One play sums it up. We're up 40 in the second half, and he dives for a loose ball in front of the Loyola bench." 
Joining Carroll behind the arc were Graves and Ingelsby with three treys apiece. 
Four other players knocked down at least one trey, and the team's 3-point shooting percentage -73 percent ­set a school record. 
The Irish crushed the Ramblers. leading 62-26 at halftime, allowing Brey to call in the reserves early in the second half. It wasn't until the final few minutes, with all the starters on the bench, that Notre Dame's shooting dropped below 70 percent. 
The win marked only the second time in history Notre Dame has scored 100 or more points in back-to-back games. 
Murphy led the Irish with 23 points and four blocks. In addition to Murphy and Carroll, Humphrey was good for 16 and Graves for 18. 
"We want to show to all the people in the country that we're for real this year," Murphy said. 




Tuesday, November 28, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 



LISA VELTE/The Observer Junior forward David Graves protects the ball in Notre Dame's 69-51 win Saturday at Cincinnati. Graves scored 17 points in the win over the No. 17 Bearcats. 
Attention Musicians! 
CRC, 314 Lafortune Thursday, November 30th 9am-5pm 

Come And Bid On Music And Sound Equipment: Drum Set, 
Digital Piano, 12-Channel Mixing Board And More! 
Questions? Call 1-4078. Brought To You By The CCC. 
Insight 
continued from page 28 
Dame to finish third in their division of the Big East behind Seton flail and unranked Georgetown. Perhaps a win like this \Viii help make them beHevP.rs. 
"Given all the preseason hype, we backed a little bit of it up, especially in the second half," said Brey, whose Irish outscored the No. 13 Bearcats 38-25 in the final 20 minutes. "We played defense, rebound­ed and got them in one-and­done situations. We were really poised and methodical with how we built our lead. We understand how to use our weapons to build a lead." 
They built that lead by con­tinually feeding the ball to the best player on the IToor. Murphy scored 15 of his 30 points in the final 13 minutes of the contest to help the Irish pull away. 
"That was a against the Bearcats while being guarded by Naismith candidate Kenny Satterfield. 
Graves and Matt Carroll are incredible shooters and smart role players. And perhaps the most important reason is that Brey has the Irish playing man-to-man defense. 
Matt Doherty's zone allowed players like Providence's Donta Wade to knock down a Big East record 10 3-pointers and score 38 points. That won't happen this year. 
And for those reasons, Notre Dame is expected to beat teams like Sacred Heart and Loyola by 40 points. And it is no longer an upset when the Irish beat the Bearcats by 18. 
"It was kiud of a program game," first-year head coach Brey said. "Their program is thought of better than ours. They've gone to the NCAA tournament for nine straight years and we haven't been there in 11 straight years. But we still have a long way to go 
and a Jot to 

huge confi­do. For us to
"Given all the preseason 
dence earn what
hype, we backed a little
builder," Brey we've gotten said. "That's bit ofit up. " in the presea­what big-time son, we have programs do to beat teams
Mike Brey
down the like this. It's stretch. They Irish head coach definitely 
know whose hands to get the ball in." 
This year's Irish squad has the chance to be something special. Last year, they were considered lucky when they knocked off Ohio State or swept the season series with defending champ Connecticut. But now people can come to exp_ect extraordinary things from this group. And there is good reason. The Irish are a lot better than they were last year. 
"They talked about what they wanted to do even before I was hired," Brey said. 'Tm just trying to point them in the right direction." 
"We're a year older and a year wiser," forward David Graves said. "Everyone has really bought into what Coach brings to the table." 
Aside from experience, there are several other rea­sons why this year's basket­ball team is better than last year's. Transfer Hyan Humphrey is the real deal and the missing piece of the puz­zle. Murphy is the most valu­able player to his team in the country. Senior Martin Ingelsby is a better point guard than Jimmy Dillon. He's 9-of-11 from 3-point range this season and he had an 8-1 assist to turnover ratio 
something to build on in the third game of the season." 
And with three more of what Brey likes to call "pro­gram games" ahead on the slate, the Irish have a chance to crack the top 10 and con­tinue to build a name for their program if they can avoid upsets by Vanderbilt, Indiana and Miami (Oh). With five cupcake games against teams like Long Island and Canisius following this challenging three-game stretch, the Irish could be staring 10-0 in the face before opening Big East play. 
The sky seems to be the limit for this year's Irish squad. 
"We played well but I don't think this is the best this team can play," Murphy said fol­lowing the win over Cincinnati. "It was a good beginning but we need to con­tinue to get better. It's nice to have all these things in the preseason, but we need to continue to win games. We're listed as one of the top teams, but we want to be there in the end." 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
"As You Wish" 
Imports 
S\ve.aters, Ta:pestries, J evvelry, Accessories, and Much More! Guatera.la •Bali• Mexico• Brazil• 
BCREDIBLE PRICES! 
CLEARANCE SALE! Unbelievable Bargain Corner! •Proceeds from this corner help send 6 Guatermlan children to school. Other Ibnations Greatly Appreciated 
LaFortune -Room 108, Dec 1-6, 10-5 

-------------------------------·-­
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 28, 2000 
Irish 
continued from page 28 
ed a great goal." 
Erikson got the ball deep in the Broncos' box on a cross pass from freshman Handi Scheller. Erikson knocked the ball pa.st Santa. Clara goalkeep­er Crystal Gordon for the score. 
It was the second time this season, and the third in 13 months, that the Irish defeated the Broncos. They beat the Broncos (i-1 in September on Notre Dame's Alumni Field, but Santa Clara was missing top players Anna Kraus, Aly Wagner and Danielle Slaton. Last year, Notre Dame knocked Santa Clara out of the tourna­ment in tho semifinals with a 1-0 victory. 
As in iast year's playoff game. Santa Clara outshot Notre Dame hy a wide margin, this time 18-4. Rut it didn't matter, because Santa Clara's shots were stopped by Irish goalkeeper Liz Wagner, who recorded eight saves. 
"I think Liz Wagner is the best goalkeeper in the country this year," Notre Dame coach Handy Waldrum said. "The fact that she doesn't get the recog­nition she deserves has been kind of amazing to me." 
Wagner leads the nation in goals against average at .302. Behind her defense of' the box, Notre Dame has given up just eight goals while scoring 75, and no team has scored more than one goal against the Irish. 
Notre Dame took the early lead on a shot by forward Ali Lovelace at the 16:31 mark. 
'l 
-• ·••U-O••IU1h· ­
' 
Irish defender Monica Gonzalez swiped the ball from Kraus, then dribbled it down­field before heading it off' to Erikson. Erikson sent the cross to Lovelace near the middle of the field, who drilled the ball into the upper right hand cor­ner ol' the net with a spinning kick. 
It was Lovelace who scored the gamcwinner in '99 over then-No. 1 Santa Clara. 
Following Notre Dame's first score, Santa Clara let off a t1ur­ry of offensive shots. Midfielder Veronica Zepeda, forward Kristi Camlau and midl'ielder Dcvvyn llawkins each had a go at scoring, but Wagner kept each shot out of tho goal. 
The game became a defen­sive battle after that. Notrn Dame did not take a single shot on goal in the second half, and although Santa Clara took 11. all but one were turned away, 
1t was the final shot, at 87:12, that brought the Broncos back into the contest. Unassisted, Kraus delivered a rebound shot into the upper left corner of Notre Dame's goal, just out or Wagner's reach. 
"With the goal coming so late," Waldrum said, "and with all the pressure they were putting on us, I was worried that we might feel too deflated. But I'm so proud of how we came back in the overtime and created the opportunity to get the game-winning goal." 
Santa Clara's goal sent the game into overtime, where nei­ther team had lost this season. 
"We've been pretty success­ful in overtime this past year," said Slaton, who competed on the 2000 U.S. Olympic women's soccer team. "I think we went Aldama all in position to take into overtime four times, and the kick, Aldama took the shot, this was unfortunately the first but it sailed wide right and Liz time we had lost." Wagner tipped the shot away. 


In overtime, the Broncos Wagner picked up two more quickly took the offensive. saves 011 Broncos' shots by 
A Notre Dame foul set up a Chardonnay Poole and Kerry free kick for Santa Clara. With Cathcart. Wagner, Slaton and Heather "Liz made some incredible saves," Gonzalez said. "It doesn't matter how well the defense plays. If they get one shot and one goal, they win." 
But Wagner was rock solid, and the Irish are 011 their way to San Jose. They will face the North Carolina Tar lleels Friday. 
Power Mac G4 Cube: New low price! 
With unprecedented style, the Power Mac G4 Cube gil'es you G4 performance so you can play graphics-intensive games or crunch numbers without overwhelming rour

I 
<lormruom desktop 
450MHz/64MB/20GB HD/DVD ROM/561</fireWire 
~ 

Price includes three-year AppleCare Protection Plan. $1,622 

iMac: New fall lineup. 

The new iMac.s have the power and performance to meet your uemarn.ling course 
requiremems and get you on the lnternt:t fast. Three of the four models ,tre AirPon 
readyt am.l allow 1uu to create ynur vwn Desktop ,\1uvies with FireWirt and iMuvie 2. 
350MHz/64MB/7GB HO/CO ROM/56K/USB from$965 
Priee includes three-yearApp/I/Care Protection Plan. 
iBook: It's iMac to go. PowerBook 

Make cffonles, Internet connections, take notes in class, :me! even pr<xluce and ,rar 
For taking to class, it's in aclass by itself.
lo ynur own Dcokmp Movie~, all v.ith the 1,cw illrnik. Ai.Id AirPort aml you're ckared for takeoff wi1h wirdess lmernet access.t Aportable science lab and movie studio, the PowerBook offers exceptional 
366MHz/64MB/10GB HO/CD ROM/fireWire/56K from $1,711 
power and long battery life to accompany you everywhere. Built-in FireWire 
Price includes three-year AppleCare Protection Plan 
lets you connect to external devices like digital cameras, CD recorders, scanners, and hard drives. And now every PowerBook comes with iMovie Solutions Center video editing software, so you can direct and act in your own Desktop Movies. 

Room 112 Computing Center 
219-631-7477 

fromS2,340
400MHz/64MB/10GB HD/DVD ROM/FireWire/56K
http://www.nd.edu/-solution Email: Solution@nd.edu Price includes three-year AppleCare Protection Plan. 
tWirllitm i1!11m6I aca,s.s 19Q\llf~ an AwPor1 Basa Slatm and h!eme! ac:cus (1eej m,1y amt'f]. Some &s are no1 c:urmntfy compalibltJ wil11 Ai,Port, 1ocludi11g Amsica Onhne. R.3nge may var~ with site conOl\ions.. Thi:; offer I~ l'ltlt 'o'aliiJ with ttia purchase of qualifying prod~l:i !hill 1110 IJS6J, refurbtshad, Of demC11S!ra11un ec:iu1pmont, Putt:llasu mu:il be matle ti} an cnd~usm purchasffl, and not a rosellef. to otltam lhese p1c,ngtJoJia, oilers, PnxlW.:15-ou;d\asecf c.thict, lrom JIQlllt al ill: ~ StOl'a, ~e Aopfe Store for E~Uu1 fln,111tut!oo:i), ~ the Apli! 8rolt1 kn ffJocatm (ll'lfflvk!ualst ilfl' no! etigtik! to 1«~prl!mWm 1l!!ms \Ila lull!lmer.l 1J11der !his. offer. Edocatil'.l!lal ,tnd Apple S!ore pncli,g :md P\'()llOl1onal offerings supersede this offB,. This aHer is void where prota1hr!ed or rest,lrled by bw. ll1is offil~ Is good while suooUas Inst. AOJ)le 
•~lhl ~ lo Wl&l\1\1\a i-ernunsot ~o:,0'JWI va11:1-, ~1'1SQf'M. 'lhe f~ to~1"lt 1etms arul Cnnli\ioos tll 1na l,1ftlmollDfl al any time v.i\hliUt no11ee. lhls olfat is not v.Micl 11 COOJLI'1Clloo w\lh any ollie, ~ott• Of pmmonon. Premium ltam:s may l10l be reUllfJd or refuooed, e 2000 Apple Com~ler. Inc. Al r1ghls reserwd. ~.the ft.?Pk logo, f1reWire, Moc, ntld Power8ook are t1il0ernark.!1 ol Apple~.h:., rn95t01ad in Che U.S. a,,d offilN COlllllies.AJrf>ort,f'Pf)le S!or1J,10o(jc,, 1a.tac.fl0Wt'f M.ic,ar.d~Think (ifli:,erit·aiel1adt1marks ol ,'Wic Canp1.1l61, rlC, 
page 25 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 28, 2000 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
No. 4 Irish dominate in 89-44 routing against Rams 
Georgia had an opportunity
. McGraw's

ByT{M CASEY to take tho lead when Ivey Assistant Sporrs EJiwr squad earns win threw the ball away on the over first ranked next possession. Irish All­American center Ruth Riley
She warned Huth Riley before opponent Friday 
blocked the path of Bulldog
the season. 
Deanna Nolan. and tho

Muffet McGraw's message: 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Irish got the ball back with
when the All-American center Assistant Sports Editor seven seconds left.
committed her first foul of the 
Georgia immediately
game. she would be benched. 
fouled Irish forward Kelley
And less than seven minutes 
In their first competition Siemon, who hit one of two
into Monday night's game against 
against a ranked opponent shots to give the Irish their
Fordham. McGraw kept her 
this season, the Irish final tally of 7 5 points -all
promise. 
women's basketball team of which were scored by the
Riley sat for the rest of the half 
proved to be a force to be five starters. Ivey and Hiley
after an offensive foul. But even 
reckoned with, defeating each scored 19, Ra.tay
without its star, Notre IJame 
then No. 6 Georgia 75-7 3 added 16, Siemon chipped
outscored Fordham by 18 points 
on Friday to win the cham­in with 13 and Ericka
in the next 13 minutes on their 
pionship game of the Haney scored eight. 
wav to an 89-44 victorv. The Irish 
Coaches vs. Cancer Classic The loss drops Georgia to
woi1 their 25th straight game at 
in Madison, Wis. The Irish 2-2 on the season. The
the JoycA Center in front or 
also topped host Wisconsin Bulldogs fell to No, 7 in the
announced crowd of 3,107 
83-56 on Wednesday. latest ESPN/USA Today
"I wanted to see what we did 
"Beating a top 10 team -coach's poll, while the Irish
without !Riley]," said McGraw of 
Georgia is probably a top went up one spot to No. 4,
her center, who scored six points 
five team -really helps behind only Duke,
and grabbed four rebounds in 15 
you see your potential," Tennessee and Connecticut.
minutes. "It was a good opportu­
Irish head coach Muffet Georgia's other loss was at
nity for us to really focus on the 
McGraw told the Associated the hands of Connecticut,
bench and to see what they can 
Press following Friday's vic­falling by 29 points. 
do." 
tory. "\Ne don't need to get In Wednesday's victory
The reserves responded. In 
too excited, but it's nice to over Wisconsin, the Irish
Notre Dame's 75-73 win over 
win a big game like that." dominated the game offen­
Georgia on Saturday, the starters 
Friday's game was tight sively despite getting only
scored every point. But compet­
all the way through. After 17 total points from Riley
ing against an overmatched 
falling behind 22-9 early, and Ratay.
Fordham squad, the four bench 
the Bulldogs stormed back lvey led the way with one
players tallied more than 1/4 (26) 
to take a 63-57 lead with of the best games of her
of the lrish's points. 
less than eight minutes left. collegiate career. The fifth­
lead to 68-30 in the opening 11 14 points, 8 assists and nailed a
Forward Meaghan Leahy 
At that point, Niele Ivey hit year point guard scored 22
minutes. A full court pressure trio of 3-pointers. Her backcourt
recorded career-highs with 16 
a 3-pointer to start an 11-0 points and added nine
attack and aggressive man-to­mate, Alicia Ratay scored 17
points and 14 rebounds. After 
run that saw Notre Dame rebounds and seven assists.
man defense caused 22 Fordham points on 7 -of-9 shooting. Ratay's 
scoring only two points in the first 
go up 68-63. Siemon -who came off
turnovers. The Rams shot just 6-three 3-pointers give her 16 (on
20 minutes. the 6-foot-4 forward 
Georgia pulled back, tak­the bench last season ­
of-28 (21.4 percent) from the 23 attempts) for the season.
connected on l 2-of-14 from the 
ing a 71-70 lead with 1:58 added 21 for the Irish,
floor in the second half and But it was Leahy and company
foul line as the No. 4 Irish 
left before Alicia Ratay took while small forward Haney
missed 16 of 18 3-point attempts who sparked the Irish. 
remained undefeated (5-0) on the 
over. scored 14.
in the game. "Those are great numbers for
season. 
Ratay hit a jumper over "I think we have a great
"We have a goal to keep teams Meaghan," Siemon said. "And I'm 
"Coach had spoken with me 
Georgia star Coco Miller to balance," McGraw told the
under 50 points," said forward not surprised at all. It was a great
about giving me opportunities," 
put Notre Dame up by one. Associated Press. "That's
Kelly Siemon, who had 14 points. game for the bench." 
Leahy said. ''I've been focusing on 
She then deflected a the kind of balance you
"That's always in the back of our Fordham arrivetl in South Bend 
contributing and playing hard." 
Georgia pass to Ivey, who need to succeed and go far
minds." with a 0-2 record, one year after
With the Georgia victory, the 
was then fouled. Ivey hit in the NCM tournament."
At the 16-minute mark of the finishing 4-24. Nailah Wallace led 
Irish achieved their highest rank­
both shots from the line to The Irish dominated the
first half, with her team ahead 9-the Rams with 13 points on
ing ever when the polls came out 
put the Irish up by three. game in the first half, build­
8, an animated McGraw yelled at Tuesday night but scored only
on Monday. In the ESPN/USA 
"It's sad when you're one ing a 41-26 lead at the half.
point guard Niele Ivey for her one in the second half. 
TODAY poll, Notre Dame is only 
deflection, one steal, one Leading the opening charge
sloppy play. Ivey, who was named "Notre Dame's a dynamite
one point behind No. 3 Duke. 
offensive rebound, one was Ivey, who hit three 3­
MVP of the Coaches vs. Cancer team," said first-year Fordham
"The rankings really mean 
charge away from a victo­pointers and scored 17
tournament last weekend, sat head coach Jim Lewis.
absolutely nothing at this point," 
ry," Georgia coach Andy points in the opening half.
down for less than three minutes "Everybody knows about their
McGraw said. "It doesn't mean a 
Landers told the AP. "But "I just felt confident in the
before going back on the court national rankings but when you
thing. We want to be ranked in 
we don't try to make plays first half," she told the
after Riley's first foul. look at them face-to-face and see
March and we want to be ranked 
every possession. So you Associated Press. "Tonight I 
When she returned, Ivey the kind of things they're capable 
No. 1." 
come up short." was concentrating a lot
regrouped and led the Irish of doing, they're really a great
Notre Dame began the second 
Miller hit a jumper to cut more than I did in the
attack. The senior finished with team."
half on a 21-4 run to expand its 
the lead to one. and past." 


page 26 Tht: Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 28, 2000 
==--==----=------~===============================~~========================================================= 
time that has happc1wd all season. Anne Blaire stopped up for thn team 
HOCKEY 
Belles 
defensively with 15 rPbounds, giving her the second highest number of
continued from page 28
Wildcats pounce on Irish 
rebounds in the MlAI\. Matha currently 
By MATT ORENCHUK 
Sports Writer 
The Notrn Dame hockev team entered this past weekend \-Vith high hopes or making some headway in the CCHA standings. 
But those hopes were dashed as the Irish finished the weel..nnu with a loss and a Lie to the Wildcats of No11.hern Michigan. 
Afler a bruta.l early schedule in which the Irish playr.d thre1i teams ranked in the top 10 nationally, Notre Dame had a 3-6-2 record and three points in the CCJIA standings. 
Predictably. Notre Dame was in dead last coming into this weekend's series against Northern Michigan. But the Irish didn't make up the ground that they needed to. 
On Friday night the Northern Michigan Wildcats came out strong. handing the Irish a 3-1 loss. 
Dave Inman got Notre Dame going early as he scored live minutes into the gamo to givo Notre Dame a 1-0 lead. While Notre Dame controlled the momentum for much of the first period, that was all the goals they were able to muster. In the second. momentum shifted to Northern Michigan. The Wildcats got the equalizer with 4:20 leil in the second period, and the tt~ams went into the second int.crmi'ision deadlocked at one goal apiece. 
Northern Michigan was able to capitalize on a Notre Dame turnover at the 12-minutc mark of the third for the eventual game-win­ning goal. The Wildcats added an insurance goal thrne minutes later for a 3-1 score. 
Saturday night's game featured much of the same back and forth momentum swings as Friday night's game did. Northern Michigan jumped on the Irish early, putting two quick goals on the board. [rish coach Dave Poulin then decided to pull sophomore goalie Tony Zasowski, in favor of senior Kyle Kolquist. Kolquist responded in kind, holding the Wildcats scoreless for the next 43 minutes or the game. 
Ask About 

Call today and mention this ad!! 

Meanwhile, Notre Dame chipped away at the Northern Michigan lead. The Irish got a goal from freshman Hob Globke with five sec­onds left in the first period to pull to 2-1. Notre Dame then got the equalizer by Aaron Gill five minutes into the third period. This set up a wild finish which left teams locked in a 3-3 tie. Ryan Dolder scored for the Irish with just 1:15 left in the third period to put Notre Dame ahead 3-2. 
Northern Michigan furiously fought back to scorn with just 45 seconds left to send the game into overtime. Neither team could score, and the game ended in a 3-3 tie. 
"We were disappointed with our perfor­mance this weekend," said sophomore left wing Michael Chin. "We have played a lot of good teams, and we have played well against them, but we haven't found a way to win. That is something we need to learn to do." 
There arc some bright spots for the Irish, though. Globke and Aaron Gill have been solid contributors since the beginning of the season. 
"The guys have been doing a good job ol' incorporating us into the system and treating us as they treat everyone el'ie," Gill said. 
In addition to the freshmen, Notre Dame has killed off 23 straight penalties in their past five games. The last time Notre Dame gave up a power play goal was on Oct. 27 against Michigan State. That is something the Irish ½ill need to continue to do to win some hockey games. 
Notre Dame will also need to outwork their opponents. 
"Coming off the BC game I felt good about the season," said Chin. "We outplayed them, but still lost. So we were hopeful [coming into this weekend's series against Northern Michigan]. The bottom line is we got out­played by Northern Michigan." 
Notre Dame will get to test its work ethic this weekend when it travels to Lake Superior State for a two game series with the Lakers. 
Player and senior captain Julie Norman joined Matha on the All-Tournament Team. 
"I think [Matha] is such a leader by example," said head coach Suzanne Smith. "She lays it all out on the court. She has really stepped up and played well." 
And lay it out she did. Matha led the team with a remarkable 23 points and 19 rebounds in Saturday's victory against Marietta. Although she only had four rebounds in Sunday's tournament championship, she did turn in 17 points for the Belles. Matha, however, con­tributes her title to her teammates. 
"There is no way I would have gotten [the title] without my teammates," she said. "It really reflects our team more." 
Following that performance, Matha was also named MIAA Conference play­er of the week. Norman also turned in a star performance at the Turkey Shoot Classic. 
During the Marietta game, Norman fouled out in overtime. Although she scored 14 points for the team, she was looking for redemption on Sunday. 
"With Julie fouling out, she was very frustrated," Smith said. "Sunday she was very determined to win that game." 
Norman turned in 19 points and nine rebounds on Sunday. The tournament championship pitted the Belles against the Lady Crimson of Oberlin College. The Belles and the Crimson traded the lead during most of the game. 
"It was close most of the game," Smith said. "It really came down to the last three minutes." 
In that last three minutes Saint Mary's pulled ahead, ultimately de!'cat­ing Oberlin and claiming the Turkey Shoot Tournament trophy. 
The Oberlin defense managed to keep Matha to only four rebounds, the first 

holds the one spot with l 1J rebounds in . this weekend's victory against Marietta. The tournament heated up when Saint Mary's took on host school Marietta. The Belles and the Pioneers of' Marietta 
were evenly matched. 
"They were a great penetrating and 
passing team," Matha said. "We stuck 
with it." 
The Belles were down most of the 
game, by as much as seven at one point. 
With less than one minute to play Saint 
Mary's was down by a basket. 
Sophomore point guard Scan Hussell 
penetrated the Marietta de!'ensc and 
passed to Matha who scon~d the game­
tying basket. 
During overtime, Saint Mary's players 
Norman and Anne Blaire fouled out. 
Mary Campione came in for Norman 
and Elizabeth Linkous took Blaire's 
spot. was definitely a team effort," 
Smith said. 
After Matha hit two foul shots. the 
Belles pulled ahead by five poinl<;. They 
kept that margin and won the game 74­
(i9. Earlier in the week. the Belkis took 
their only loss of tho holiday break. 
Saint Mary's faced 25th ranked 
Franklin College, and dropped the game 
61-85. 
Saint Mary's stayed with Franklin for 
the first half and the game and Franklin 
had no substantial lead until the second 
half. 
'They had a lot of depth and a lot of 
height," Matha said. 
The Belles will have a week off to 
recover before hosting a tournament 
this weekend. Friday will mark the first 
home game or the year and the Belles 
are looking forward to coming into it 
with a winning record. 
"Everyone expects us to lose," Matha 
said. "But we've been going out there 
and winning. This is the first time we've 
had a winning record in a long time." 

Dominator 
Large One Topping Pizza 
every tuesday 
Manager's Special -Free can of Coke w/purchas 
Every Day Specials 
$7.99 Large One Topping before 9 pm $6.99 Large One Topping after 9 pm $11.99 -2 Large One Topping $8.99 Dominator One Topping $14.99 -2 Dominator One Topping 
271-0300 
11am-2am sun-thurs 
11am-3am fri-sat 

Tuesday, November 28, 2000 The Observer. TODAY page 27 

TYLER

TOM KEELEY 
THINGS COULD BE WORSE
FOURTH AND INCHES 
WHATELY 

BILLAMEND
Fox TROT 


ACROSS  34 [Oh, that's  57 Quitting time,  
Concession  awful!]  often  
stand purchase  35 Painter Chagall  58 Forest measure  
5 Egyptian snakes 9 Lox holder  36 Florence's river 37 2000 hit album  59 La Scala offering  
14 Whaler of fiction 15 Wing tip, e.g.  by Britney Spears 40 Fall color  60 Change from a cashier 61 Tibia  
16 Item in a Greek salad  41 Psychiatrist's response  62 Pops 63 Mailed  
17 River the Aswan Dam dams  42 Thickheaded  64 Party thrower  
18 Chimney residue 19 Interlaced 20 One who's handy around the house 23 Gallery display 24 Deep black 25 Highlight 29 Sly look 31 Run up the phone bill  43 Orangutan, for one 44 Abbr on a business letter 45 Learn completely 46 One marching in a column 47 Bart, to Homer Simpson 48 Comment to a klutz 56 Fleshy fruit  DOWN 1 Hourglass fill 2 Buckeye's home 3 Mustachioed Surrealist 4 Help in a heist 5 Classify 6 Vociferate 7 Poverty-stricken 8 Match parts  
9 One who hopes  
for strikes  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  10 In the air  
-:-t-=+:+.,-,+.:-1 --:-+.,..,+:-:+,.,+,:-1  11 Donate 12 Pen ultimate fairy tale word 13 Novelist  Puzzle by Peter Gordon 31 Scholar's wish, maybe 32 Licoricelike  47 Crapping-out throw 48 Auto parts brand  52 "A bit of talcum/ Is always walcum" poet  
,-,,.+,.,+,,,,,t 1111111111-..;...;.;.i.;.~~.,_~l,..,..l.,;.;..1,..;..a..;;.  Deighton 21 New Age musician of note 22 Oust 25 Ancient Greek  flavor 33 Cause for a head-slap? 35 Atomizer's output  49 Newspaper page for essayists 50 ET's transports 51 Grape plant  53 Comeback 54 Part of the eye 55 Camping gear 56 Pea holder  
marketplace -=-t_.-:-t-:::-r.N~ 26 Infant's illness w S 27 Small woods E A 28 N.L. -='"=""'L,-t-,,L-1 29 Burdened  36 Forever 38 "Hi & Lois" child 39 "A Bell for 44 Nonetheless 45 Not boastful  Answers to any throe clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95e per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50  
.....,_s...._E.., 30 Buffalo's lake  46 Bestow  years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  


CROSSWORD 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Dis­DAY: Ed Harris, Nancy Mitford, Paul ruptions may cause you to stop what Shaffer, Judd Nelson, Randy New­you are working on. Make arrange­man, Alexander Godunov ments quickly and carry on with 
Happy Birthday: You will excel your job. Problems with co-workers this year if you stay focused. You will indicate that you should not rely on aim at beefing up your financial others.00 portfolio. You're not be afraid to test LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You the waters and will jump into will have no problem influencing unknown territory with gusto. You others when it comes to your beliefs want to be on the cutting edge and and opinions. Put some effort into will step out on a limb to get the self-improvement. You will have a attention you desire. Your numbers: tendency to be overindulgent. 0000 7, 12, 17, 23, 30, 39 SCORPIO (OcL 23-Nov. 21): You 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): will have to be well-organized today. Romantic encounters will unfold if Learn to delegate less important you go out with friends. You'll be in duties to those around you. You have a talkative mood; it will be a good a knack for taking on too much and day to get your point across. It will then getting frazzled trying to do it also be easy to write letters. 00000 all. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. will have no problem with financial 21): You can make new friends and dealings. It is best to try to finalize meet an individual who could possi­deals and sign on the dotted line. bly become an important partner in You can make career moves and the future. Doing things with chil­work well with your colleagues. dren is favorable today. 000 0000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will find that those you least Investments may not be in your best expect will rally around to aid you in interests. Someone around you may achieving your goals. Don't forget try to take you for granted. Look into to show your gratitude if you wish joining a club that offers individual them to offer their assistance again. 
sports.00 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Make those changes to your home. A Dealing with children may be diffi­move or just changing things around cult. Do things that involve physical will lift your spirits. Expect people activity. Shopping sprees will be a to drop by to see you at home or at learning experience. Don't buy work.000 things you don't really want. 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Make PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): plans to get together with friends or Someone you work with cannot be at least phone them to catch up on all trusted. Don't be so open about your the latest happenings in their lives. personal life or your feelings about Talk about commitment with the one co-workers. Changing your profes­
you love; it could lead to matrimony. sional direction is not a bad idea. 00 00000 
Birthday Baby: You were born with the pizzazz, charm and diplomacy to please a crowd and gain the support you need throughout life to accomplish your goals. You are bright, outgoing and eager to get tfungs done. 
(Need advice? Cl-ieck out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice:com, 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
e 2000 Univer,al Press Syndicate 

The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ____________________ Address City _______ State ____ Zip______ 

Netting wins 

No. 4 Notre Dame remains unbeaten after rolling olJer Fordham Monday with an 89-44 victory.
PORTS 
page 25 

O
THE page 28 BSERVER 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Blazing a trail to San Jose 
No. 1 Irish top Broncos in 

t 
quarterfinal overtime contest 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Assoc1a1" Sports F.d11or 
Irish forward Mcotis Erikson wasn't thinking. 
Erihon, a senior, has her greatest success when she's too focused to say, "What if?", and that's what she did Friday, knocking in the game-winning goal against Sanla Clara for lhe 2-1 sudden victory overtime win. 
"I wasn't thinking, and that's the best thing usually for me," Erikson said. "When I think too much, I mess it up, so I was just glad that I wasn't thinking on that play." 
Thanks to Erikson's shot, the Notre Dame women's soccer team (23-0-1) is on its way back to the Final Four of the NCAA Championships f'or the sixth time in seven years. 
"In overtime, it's about who's going to catch a break and take advantage of il," Santa Clara (16­7-1) coach Jerry Smith said. "And Notre Dame did that. They caught the first break and creat-LISA VELTE/The Observer 
Monica Gonzalez controls the ball in Notre Dame's win Friday against Santa Clara. The see IRISH/page 24 Irish travel to San Jose Friday to take on North Carolina in the NCAA semifinals. 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 


Tuesday, November 28, 2000 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Belles nab tournament victory 
By KATIE McVOY Assisram Sporn Edicor 

The Saint Mary's basketball team had more than good food to be thankf'ul for this weekend_ 
The Belles finished the Thanks­
giving holi­day with a 2-1 record and a tour­nament champi­onship. 
"Coming into the 


tournament 

Matha 
everyone expected us to finish last." said sophomore forward Kristen Matha. "But we came in and won and that was great." 
Saint Mary's took home the tro­phy for the Turkey Shoot Classic at Marietta College, defeating host school Marietta 7 4-69 in the preliminary round and then defeating Oberlin College 80-70 in the Championship game. 
But a trophy was not the only result of' this weekend's tourna­ment. Matha was named the tournament's Most Valuable 
sec BELLES/page 26 
Unbeaten Irish pick up wins against Loyola, Cincinnati 
. Murphy leads Irish in 69-51 win over No. 1 7 'Cats  gritty defensive effort from the starting five. "That's certainly something to build on for us," Irish head  throws to give Notre Dame a 43-36 edge. Down the road, the Irish kept finding a way to hit  
coach Mike Brey said. "We  their top target Murphy.  
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Assoda!e Spom Editor  were really poised and methodical with how we built our lead."  "He's our first option all the time," Ingelsby said. "They kept fouling him, and  
INDIANAPOLIS  Ahead by five at halftime, Notre Dame (3-0) struggled  we just kept pounding it in there and pounding it in  
After  season opener routs  to  match Cincinnati (2-1)  there."  
of Sacred Heart and Loyola  point for point to open the  The 6-foot-11 All-American  
(Chicago). first-year head  second stanza.  · power forward  sunk  a  3­ 
coach  Mike  Brey and  the  The smallest guy  on  the  pointer after Ingelsby dished  
entire men's basketball team  court, 5-foot-11 point guard  off one  of his eight assists.  
kept saying the first  test of  Martin IngeIsby. shook the  Donald Little  came back for  
11th-ranked Notre Dame's  Irish out of their slumber,  the  Bearcats with  a  slam  
talent would  come  when it  driving  the  ball  straight  dunk, but Murphy answered  
played No. 17 Cincinnati in the .John IL Wooden Tradition. Well, the Irish aced their first exam.  down the paint for a layup. llis basket put the Irish up 41-36 and jolted the crowd from a seated lull to a stand­ing roar.  with a jam of his own, again on an Ingelsby assist. Murphy, a junior, kept the scoring coming, knocking down two free throws. then  
They blew by the Bearcats  Then Irish junior David  muscling down the lane for  
in the second half Saturday to win 6Y-51 behind the  Graves picked Cincinnati's pocket. and after the two  an easy bucket. On the after­noon, he scored 30 points  
offensive  heroics  of  All­ teams exchanged turnovers,  
American Troy Murphy and a  Graves  nailed  two  free  see MEN/page 22  

far this season. you've

. Irish make huge 
already rnalized that thesestrides with stellar guys are good. And after putting up 100 points against
season start 

Sacred Heart and Loyola (Chicago). they took a hugeINDIANAPOLIS step forw_ard with Saturday's
Have you heard? Notre 

69-51 victory over CincinnatiDame is ranked No. 11 in the 
in the inaugural John ll.
latest poll. 
Wooden Classic in And I'm not talking about Indianapolis.
the BCS or "It does a lot for our pro­any other 


gram to beat a team likefootball Cincinnati," Big East co-play­rankings. 
er of the week Troy Murphy
The men's 

said. "A lot of people said webasketball hadn't really been tested. 
team is 

We've been given a lot in thechecking preseason. It was good to bein at No. 
tested today, and play like we11 in this 
did_" week's Brian Kessler There has been a great deal
ESPN/USA 

of hype surrounding the Irish Today Sports Writer this year, but there
Coaches are still some doubters, likePoll and the coaches who picked Notre

the AP PolL If you've seen the Irish so see INSIGHT/page 23 
• 
Women's Swimming at Miami 
vs. North Carolina 
a'»

Notre Dame Invicacional fl Friday, 7 p.m. 
College Cup semifinal
SPORTS 

Thursday-Saturday 
Friday, 5 p.m. 
Volleyball
ATA 
vs_ Cincinnati

• Men's Swimming "'-1'at. Lake Superior State 
NCAA tournament

Notre Dame Invitational 
Friday, 7:05 p.m. ~ 
-~ at Columbus, Ohio
GLANCE 

Thursday-Saturday ~ 
Sunday, 7 p-m. 





