Curtain Up 
Soaring in the Stadium 
Notre Dame's play "love's Fire" debuts this 
The Irish avenged last year's loss to the Eagles, 
Monday
week as Saint Mary's offerin_q, "Under the 
defeating Boston College 28-16. See the Irish 
Milkwood." completes its run. 
Insider for full game coverage. 
NOVEMBER 13, 
Scene . page 10-11 
Irish Insider . pullout 
2000 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 54 
HONORING OUR VETERANS 

HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Lecturer addresses 


U.S. border 
By KATIE KELLEHER 
News Wriccr 
As a part of the ongoing effort to celebrate diversity at Saint Mary's this year, profes­sors Ann Kramer Clark and Marc Belanger held a discus­sion Friday on issues regard­ing the US/Mexican border. 
More than 30 students and 
faculty gathered on the 
College for the workshop titled 
Borderlands. The event is part 
of Chicana 2000!: Emerging 
Identities Workshop Series, 
and it is sponsored by the 
Center for Academic 
Innovation. 
Clark, a professor of philoso­phy at Saint Mary's, began the discussion by looking at Borderlands: The New Mestiza=La Frontera by Gloria Anzaldua. which deals with the Mexican border region. 
Clark read passages from Borderlands that discussed Anzaldua's idea of self and identity. Anzaldua calls the notion ofperson into question by asserting that she can be Mexican, American. Catholic and lesbian all at the same 
see CHICANA/page 7 

National voter turnout up slightly from 1996 election 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

U.S. voter turnout in the presidential election increased modestly over a 1996 total that had been the lowest since 1924. but experts said on Wednesday the uptick did not reverse the long­t<'rm erosion in voter participation. 
Curtis Gans. director of the Committee for the Study of the American Electorate, a Washington­based nonpartisan group that examines citizen engagement in politics, said 50.7 percent of the 
205.8 million voting-age Americans cast ballots on Tuesday in the race pitting Republican George 
W. Bush against Democrat Al Gore. 
That compared to 49 pemrnt turnout in 1996. when Democratic President Clinton won re-elec­tion uver Hepublican Bob Dole. That year \Vas the first since 1924 that less than half of the voting­age population participated in a U.S. presidential election. 
According to a random telephone poll of 282 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, 54 per­cent of those surveyed voted in the election, slightly higher than the national average. 
On the national voter turnout in the quadrenni­al presidential elections has been falling steadily since 1960, when 62.8 percent of eligible voters cast ballots in the race between Democrat John Kennedy and Republican Richard Nixon. U.S. voter participation also lags significantly behind other democracies around the world. 
"I don't think [Tuesday's turnout] affects that trend at all." Gans said. "We had the closest elec­tion [in deradesJ and the perception of the closest election, with millions of dollars spent on mobi­lization [of voters] and we still have a turnout that · leaves us at 139th out of 163 democracies." 
Gans attributed the estimated 1.7-percentage­point increase in turnout this year over 1996 "almost exclusively to mobilization effects in the battleground states." 
The two major political parties and their allies -such as labor unions helping the Democrats ­poured millions of dollars into efforts to get voters to the polls in closely contested states. They unleashed tens of thousands of volunteers, while making more than 100 million telephone calls and sending tens of millions of letters and e­mails. 
Gans said these battleground states generally experienced turnout gains on Tuesday compared to 1996. "Several of the non-battleground states had lower turnout," he added. 
Officials from around the country are taking a close look at Oregon. which became the first state to conduct a general election exclusively with mail-in ballots. Oregonians passed a ballot initia­tive in 1998 making "vote-by-mail" the only way to cast a ballot in an effort to curb the cost of con­ducting the election through voting precincts around the state. 
According to preliminary statistics provided by Oregon Secretary of State Rill Bradbury's office. about 62 percent of voting-age Oregonians cast ballots. That was a modest increase from about 
59.7 percent turnout in 1996. 
Campus Voters* 

students. 
KATIE ANNIS/The Observer 


Monday, November 13, 2000 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Calling it quits 
In 1960. John F. Kennedy defeated Richard 
Nixon by just over 118.000 votes in one of the 
closest presidential elections in American histo­
ry. Nixon may have had a legitimate claim to 
the Oval Office, but in what many describe as 
Nixon's finest hour. he did 
not request a recount. 
Nixon chose not to under­
mine the legitimacy of the 
next administration and not 
to divide his country by 
contesting the election. 
Instead, he stepped aside 
and recognized Kennedy as 
the country's next presi­
dent. 
Texas Governor George 
W. Bush and Vice President Al Gore have a lot to learn from Nixon's example. 
It is true that the presi­dential election of 2000 has been seriously flawed. Thousands of Florida's citizens were disenfran­chised by a confusing and illegal ballot and many of Florida's students did not receive absentee ballots despite multiple requests. Citizens who were in line before the close of the polls were not allowed to vote, voters who made mistakes in marking their ballots were denied new ballots and voters overseas admit to casting multiple absentee ballots. In a year in which so many voting irregularities have been reported, it is true that this presidential election has been anything but fair. 
Unfortunately. there is also no fair way to resolve these problems. A revote in Florida ­even if it only includes those citizens who origi­nally voted -is not fair because it will provide those who voted for Nader and Buchanan the opportunity to change their votes, while people who voted for third party candidates in other swing states will not be able to do so. It is not fair to visually examine the ballots to deter­mine Florida voters' intentions in the case of improperly marked ballots, because voters who made similar mistakes in other states will not be given the same consideration. 
Even a complete national revote will be unfair, because both Bush and Gore deserve to be evaluated on their performances during the campaign, not on how they have conducted themselves since then, a factor which would undoubtedly be considered if a revote was held. 
While I fully support fair and straightforward elections, there is nothing that can be done that will correct the injustices of the 2000 election without creating as many or more injustices for other citizens across the nation. These errors can only be used as models of what not to do in 2004. The Bush campaign has said it will call for recounts in Iowa and Wisconsin if Gore car­ries Florida; Gore's campaign has said it will support legal challenges to the Palm Beach County ballot if Bush wins the state. 
These two candidates should do neither of these things. Already the legitimacy of the next administration has been damaged and other nalions have begun to question the reality of our nation's democracy. To take the election out or the hands of the people and into the courtroom will not solve the problems of the 2000 election. 
lnstead of further undermining the political process, the candidates should let the recount results in Florida stand, regardless of who is the winner. 
Bush and Gore should put the stability of their country ahead of their own ambitions and allow this election to come to the most accept­able conclusion possible. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Finn Pressly Scene 
Nate Phillip~ 
Jackie Browder Meg Daday 
Graphiq; 

Sports 
Katie Annis Brian Kessler 
Lab Tech 

Viewpoint 
Shannon Bennerc 

Lauren Beck 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publuhcd Monday through Friday except during c,xam and vae21ion periods. The Observer i• a memlx,r of,he A;,c,cia,eJ Pr~u. All reproduction rights are reserved. 



THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Monday  Tuesday  
. Movie: "Breathless,"  . Lecture: "Religion and  
Snite Museum of Art, 7  Intellectuals." Hesburgh  
p.m.  Library Lounge, 7:30 p.m.  
. Lecture: "Washington  . Lessons: Ballroom  
From the Inside Out,"  dancing. Rockne 301. 8:30  
Center for Continuing  p.m.  
Education Auditorium. 8  
to 10 p.m.  

Wednesday Thursday 
. Theater: "Love's Fire," . Event: Acoustic Cafe, Washington Hall. 7:30 LaFortune, 9 p.m. 
p.m. . Movie: "East is East." 
. Concert: Notre Dame DeBartolo 155. 10:30 p.m. Chorale and Chamber . Movie: "Scary Movie," Orchestra, Basilica of the DeBartolo 101. 10:30 p.m. Sacred Heart, 8 p.m. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Brown nominates first black president 
PROVlDENCE, IU. 

The Brown Corporation voted unanimously to elect Ruth Simmons as the 18th president of Brown University. 
Simmons makes history as the first hlack president to lead an Ivy League institution -a position she will assume on July 1. She is also Brown's first permanent female president, and only the second in the Ivy League. 
Calling Simmons' election "a his­toric and momentous occasion not only for Brown but for the entire Ivy League," chancellor Stephen Rohert introduced Brown's next president to the University commu­nity at an assembly Thursday after­noon. 
More than 600 students. faculty, 
"I am delighted to have the 
opportunity to lead this out­
standing University in this 
excellent time in history. " 
Ruth J. Simmons Brown president 

staff. administrators and Corporation members greeted Simmons with a nearly two-minute standing ovation as she entered Sayles Hall. 
After a glowing introduction by Robert, who led the presidential 
search, Simmons blew kisses to the crowd as she took the podium. 
"I stand before you this afternoon mystified and elated," she told the audience after a standing ovation more thunderous than the first. "On the one hand, l am mystified by the fact that l have been chosen as the 18th president of Brown, and on the other hand I am delighted to have the opportunity to lead this outstanding University in this excit­ing time in history." 
In her first address to the Brown community, Simmons outlined her vision for the University in the con­text of her own experiences. She stressed that Brown and its peer institutions should focus on educa­tion for all students, regardless of their backgrounds. 
J 
UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI 
Former student's body found 
COLUMBIA. Mo. 

The body of Damon White, a former University of Missouri student who disappeared in March 1999, was positively identified by-Kansas City medical examiners Wednesday. Two hikers and their chil­dren found White's skeletal remains in a wooded area near Kansas City. Dental records were com­pared before a public identification was made. White's body was found about six miles from where a car he had borrowed on March 2 from his sister was found four days after his disappearance. The car contained blood stains believed to be White's. "It seems weird to me that the body was found so close to where the car was," said Kenyon Railey, a friend of White's. The medical examiner's office said no cause of death is known at this time and that there is no projection for when a cause of death will be announced. If a cause of death cannot be deter­mined, the skeletal remains will be sent to a forensic anthropologist. 
LOCAL WEATHER 

/ 
... 

NEW YORK UNIVERSITY 
•

Study on black students released 
NEW YORK 
Being reminded of one's race has profound and neg­ative effects on the academic performance of minori­ties, a study published by New York University School of Education professor Joshua Aronson says. The study, cited in the current issue of Newsweek, found that black students who were reminded of their race before answering a series of difficult questions did markedly worse than white and black students who were not reminded of their race. Aronson, while clear­ly pleased with the publication of his work, did have some criticism of the Newsweek piece. Often. low acad­emic performance by minorities. especially blacks, is attributed to genetic or cultural impediments to learn­ing. Aronson and his colleagues suggested that black students, when engaging in intellectual work, must not only accomplish the task at hand, but also debunk myths that they are intellectually inferior. Aronson says minorities are faced with stereotypes and cultural assumptions at the onset of every undertaking. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

0 2000 AecuWeather. Inc. PrNJtft' ® © D D High low Show•r ¦ A•"'  D T-atorm ¦  D F'li.nkN  FRONTS: ..a...a............. ~ cow WARM STA.flONARY r. D Snow ,~ Sunny 1'1,Cloudy Cloudy  
Attanta Baltimore Boston Chicago Hou5100  74 74 74 68 88  62 27 27 48 67  las Vegas Memphis Milwaukee NewYorlc Philadel1>hia  84 80 50 70 34  60 62 43 49 56  Portland Sacramento St. Louis Tampa wash DC I I  56 61 71 78 75  40 48 58 54 54  
)  

November 13, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Dalloway's, Welcome Center celebrate official opening 
. Center captures history of Saint Mary's campus 
By MYRA McGRIFF 
News Wricet 
Saint Mary's Welcome Center and Dalloway's Clubhouse officially opened their doors Friday. Work on the buildings started on March 20, 2000. the two buildings mark the beginning of the Saint Mary's Master Plan. 
"In this jubilee year we stop to celebrate the doors opening 
NOBODY DIES BREAKS 
BETTER!
~~;~~!;::::::::~=:.,I 
· · Breckenrid e CO ;,"" ·Vail CO ) , Aspen CO ) 
inter Park CO ) 

~~~~~=;L=l~ 
.. . 

TX · · a Beach 
• • reckenr 
www.sunchase.com 
l•800•SUNCHASE 
to the Welcome Center and the Dalloway's Clubhouse," said Saint Mary's President Marilou 
Eldred. 

The Welcome Center, donat­ed by the Ryan family, now serves as a greeting place for all incoming students. The walls contain the history of the Women of the Holy Cross, in hopes of continuing the hos­pitable nature of Saint Mary's campus. 
"The Welcome Center will continue the tradition and rich heritage of Saint Mary's College," said Michelle Nagle, student body vice president 
For the Ryan family's dona­tion, Eldred presented them with an original montage art piece of the Welcome Center. 
The new Dalloway's Clubhouse, donated by the Parent Council, stands as a student social space. 
Originating in 1923. the Clubhouse gave students a place to hold dances, dinners and other social activities. 
"The Clubhouse will foster friendships and discourse. It will build bridges and open doors," said Eldred. 
The Student Activities Board (SAB) will feature events throughout the year in the clubhouse. .. 
"I think the Clubhouse defi­nitely improved," said Brooke May, SAB entertainment chair. "I went to the old Dalloway's only a couplr of times last year. But this year, I think people arc more excited about tlie new Dalloway·s." 
For the Parent Council's donation ot' the new Dalloway's Clubhouse a plaque will br placed in the clubhouse displaying the 19 donors' names. 
''Corazon y Conversion: 
The Dynamics of Undocumented Mexican Immigration and Spiritual Transformation" 
Fr. Daniel Groody, C.S.C. 
Monday, November 13 
4:00 PM 

Center for Continuing Education 112 McKenna Hall · 
Sponsored by: Institute for Latino Studies 

CHRISTINE KAAI/The Obseiver Guests Jather outside the official opening ceremonies for Dalloway s Clubhouse and the Saint Mary's Welcome Center. Both projects were part of the College's Master Plan. 
CORRECTIONS 

. 
The Observer incorrectly reported Friday that Emil T. Hofman founded the First Year of Studies. It was founded by Father James Burtchaell. The Observer regrets the error. 

. 
Friday's article about the COURAGE lectures incorrectly the religious order of speaker Father John Harvey. His congregation is OSFS, not OFS, as reported. 


Student, Faculty, Staff and Family Tennis Clinic 
Presen:ted by: 

Men's, & Women's Varsity Tennis Teams Stroke Analysis & Playing Situations 
Monday, November 13 
6:00 PM -7:15 PM Eck Tennis Pavilion Free of Charge No Advance Registration Necessary Bring Your Own Racquet Tennis Shoes Required, No Running Shoes Allowed Call RecSports at 1-6100 for More Information 
Open to All Notre Dame Students, Faculty and Staff and their families 
R--~ 


I I I I I 'tRape-Prone vs. Rape­I I I I I 
I I I I I Free Campus I I I I I 
Cultures" at 7:30 pm
I I I I I 

I I I I I in 101 DeBartolo Hall I I I I I I I I I I 
I I I I 1 11 1 , 1 _________ _.. TUES, NOV 14: 
1 111 1 Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
I I I I I I I 

111, _________ _.. 
111 WED, NOV 15: 
I I I 

11 Panel of Survivors at 7:00 pm in the Montgomery Theater 
I I  
I I  
I I  
11  - - - - - - - - - _..  THURS, NOV 16:  
I I  Group Prayer at 7:30 pm at the Grotto  
I  
I  
1-­ - - - - - - - - ...  FRI, NOV 17:  

skit f'When A Kiss is Not Just a Kiss" at 5:30pm at the I Library Auditorium
I 

,I __________ _.. 
SAT, NOV 18: Princes of Babylon Concert at Alumni-Senior Club at 10pm $3 for ND/SMC students, $5 for non-students tickets available at LaFortune information desk 


---. 

ATION 
Monday, November 13, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Russia, China win chess Olympics: 
Russia won the men's tournament, while China dominated the women's event in the World Chess Olympics that finished in Istanbul Sunday. The Russian men's team. including world champion Alexander Khalifman who scored only 4.5 points in nine games, won with a total of 38 points. Russia has won the men's tournament all but twice since 1954. 
Bomb seized in Northern Ireland: 
Police in Northern lrnland arrested four men and seized a mortar bomb intended to be used in a terrorist attack. the Royal Ulster Constabulary said Sunday. Police said they intercepted a white van carrying the bomb on Saturday night in County Fermanagh. southwest of Belfast. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Clinton appeals to end violence: 
President Clinton was making another appeal Sunday to end the violence in the Middle East, meeting at the White House with Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak three days after a visit with Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat. Barak, whose trip was delayed after twice reversing his plane's course due to a hijacking crisis at home. has offered little hope the meeting could help to end the bloodshed that has killed nearly 200 people in the past six weeks. 
Woman charged with ax murders: 
A woman was charged with murder for allegedly killing her 6-year-old daughter and 1-year-old son with an ax. The two children were found lying in tall grass near an aban­doned home on Saturday. Berkeley County coroner Wade Arnette said the children likely were killed inside the family's mobile home, then taken outside. Police searching the home on Saturday found an ax inside. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Klan leader arrested: A Ku Klux Klan leader remained jailed Sunday for allegedly holding a television news crew captive in his home last year. Jeff Berry, leader of the American Knights of the Ku Klux Klan, was arrested Friday in his Newville home on charges of conspiring to hold the crew from Louisville, Ky., hostage in November 1999. He was being held on a $100,000 bond Sunday at the DeKalb County Jail, where he faces counts of theft, conspiracy to commit intimidation and other charges. 
Market Watch 11 /9 

Dow 
10,834.25 -72.81

]ONES 
CompositeSame; &: 
Volume,
1,63 
538 
~-NIA 
AMEX: 910.94_ Nasdaq: 3200.35 -31.35 

NYSEr:i· 656..Z~_;:;,,ts.~ -·• •5:GO~"\i:~ 
S&P 500: 1400.13 -9.15 TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SfClJRJ TY %CHANGE SGAIN PRICE WORLDCOM INC (WCOM) --4.8~ -.81 16.12 ClSCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +2.lu +1.12 5325 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +9.5R +2.37 27.I') r-.ASlJAQ 100 SH/\R (QQQ) -.02 -.01 75.u9 !NTEL CORP (INTCl -3.06 -1.30 41.3B 

ISRAEL 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 

A Palestinian suspected of collaborating with Israel was shot to death Sunday, the first time that has happened during an outbreak of Mideast vio­lence that has left about 200 dead in six weeks. A Palestinian teenager also was killed in a clash with Israeli forces. 
In another first, Palestinians opened fire in broad daylight on the Jewish neighborhood of Gilo on the outskirts of Jerusalem, a frequent nighttime target but one that has not been fired on during the day. Exchanges of fire also erupted in Palestinian areas. 
The continued· violence came in the hours before Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak arrived in Washington to meet with President Clinton for dis­cussions Barak has said were unlikely to produce a resumption of peace talks with the Palestinians. 
Palestinian Kasem Khlef, suspected by Palestinians of being a "collaborator" who helped the Israeli occupiers, was shot 12 times and killed in the vil­lage of A-Ram north of Jerusalem, Palestinian security officials said on condition of anonymity. 

Khlef may have aided Israel in killing a key leader of the Tanzim mili­tia in a rocket attack near the West Bank city of Bethlehem on Thursday, the officials said. 
Killings of Palestinians suspected of working with Israel were frequent dur­ing the Palestinian lntefadeh uprising of 1987-1993, but had not been part of the current bloodshed. 
In other violence Sunday, Mahmoud Abu Naji, 17, died when Israeli soldiers fired at Palestinian demonstrators at the Erez crossing into the Gaza Strip. 
In reaction to heavy Palestinian shooting, Israeli tanks fired a shell at a casino in the West Bank city of Jericho and another on the outskirts of Bethlehem, an army spokesman said. 
Also, the Gilo neighbor­hood came under fire at midday from the adjacent Palestinian city of Beit Jalla, the army said. The army responded with fire. 
Two Egyptians were wounded, one critically, when Israeli soldiers shot at a Palestinian riot along the Gaza border, accord­ing to Egyptian officials. 

AUSTRIA 
Relatives mourn cable car deaths 
Associated Press 
KAPRlJN 

Relatives and friends who had waited through the night in this Alpine village began to get word Sunday on whether their loved ones were among the dead in a cable car tire that killed about 170 people in a mountain tunnel. 
With the village hall draped in black and candles burning on shop steps, shattered townsfolk gathered in the Kaprun church for Sunday Mass. As they mourned, emergency crews tried to reach the spot where scores of people, many children and teen-agers, were killed Saturday by smoke and flames. 
"We understand Christ's wail on the cross: 'My God, why have you forsaken me?"' priest Peter Hofer said in his sermon. 
Others gave thanks after realizing their loved ones were safe. 
-"My son is, thank God, all right," said Gottfried Nindl. His boy had planned to go on the cable car with his friends, but didn't because they had slept too late, he said. 
The car, pulled on rails under­

ground for most of the 3,200 yards up the Kitzsteinhorn mountain to a glacier region, stopped, blazing, about 600 yards inside a mountain tunnel Saturday morning. The cause of the fire has not been determined. 
Rescuers could not reach the vic­tims as the fire raged on. Passengers tried to flee through the deep tunnel, but most were felled by the thick smoke and flames. Eighteen people survived, mainly by fleeing downwards in the tunnel where the smoke was thinner. authorities said. 
-----:-------------------------------------­
page 6 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, November 13, 2000 



THE STANDING COMMITTEE ON 
GAY AND LESBIAN 
STUDENT NEEDS 

umv£RsnY OPNOTRE DAMI Dff&RNATION'ALSTIJDV HOGLUIS ltt SECURJTY l'UJLDING ..................4'"6 T: '31-!112 Jl'u:i '3)-!711  
II '  
c=  

Monday, November 13, 2000 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
page 7 
Chicana 
continued from page l 
time. 
"l think Anzaldua is right," said Clark. "I can be a person with internal contradictions," 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STIJDY PROGRA.t'\1:S 
i'
201 SECURITY BUil..DING Notre Dame, Iudiaua 46556 T: 631-5882 Fax: 631-5711 

.II 


ROME 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Professor Michael Francis, Assistant Provost Campus International Development 



Monday November 13, 2000 
4:45 PM 102 DeBartolo 
Application Deadline: December 1, 2000 Applications available www/nd.edu/~intlstud 
~~~~~~~~~~-4"'~,4"-~J 
Now is the Time to Make a Difference! 
Teach in Massachusetts 
. 
$20,000 Signing Bonus 

. 
Job Placement Assistance 

. 
Summer Training and Certification 

. 
Mentoring and Support 


All Majors Welcome! 
(Math, Science, and Foreign Language encouraged) 
Current Seniors 
Grad Students Mid-Career Professionals 

Information Session 
Monday, November 13 • 6:00pm.• Morris Inn, Notre Dame Room 
A lication Deadline: Januar 31, 2001 
Massachusetts Signing Bonus Program for New Teachers Apply online at: www.doe.mass.edu/tqe For questions call: 781.338.3231 
NEED A LOAN? 
Morrissey Loan Fund 
Up to ~250 at 1% interest rate for 30 days 
(must be a ND student) 
LaFortune Student Center Across from the Information Desk 
Mondays from 3:00-4:00 Tuesday-Friday from 12:30-1 :30 
ANCERS, FRANCE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Prof. Julia Douthwaite Cannen Nanni, Assistant Director Student Returnees 
Clark described the conflict 
as simultaneous, not temporal­
ly separate. 

"Anzaldua is living in many 
conceptual worlds," she said. 
"Most humans are not in a 
position of wholeness, and this 
is not had despite what 
Western philosophy believes." 

Clark described this idea as a 
conflict of ethical and conccp­
Lual demands, and she sees it 
as a celebration of the frag­
mentation of self. 

"It's eternal, not linear," 
Clark said. 

Anzaldua structured the book to reflect this idea by switching between English and Spanish. Clark said this helps to bring the reader away from the linear paradigms. 
Clark said she found impor­tance in Anzaldua's hook, both personally and to society. 
"It's a part of the small col­lection of books in my lire that I read over and over," she said. 
She admitted that the book is difficult to read and under­stand, but encouraged every­one to trv. 
"If yo~ can't understand it, 
put it down and pick it up again later," Clark said. "I really do think it's one of the greatest books." 
Clark believes that Anzaldua has new and important views on this topic that people should recognize. She finished by crediting Anzaldua for her work. 
"I'm grateful to her for hav­ing set it up," she said. Discussion continued with Mark Belanger, assistant pro­

-fess or of political science. Belanger read two autobio­graphical passages from "The Late Great Mexican Border: Reports from a Disappearing Line." The passages were autobiographical accounts of a Mexican American confronted about his nationality by border police. 
He described the border as a spiritual and philosophical line, not just physical. He also discussed the borderland cul­ture and the man-made fence that separates the two coun­tries. 
"Someone built that fence," said Belanger, "and someone could tear it down." 
Wednesday November 15, 2000 
4:45 PM 208 DeBartolo 
Application Deadline: December 1, 2000 Applications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud 
~----------·------------------~----------­
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
l'.O. !lox Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Olli Soutl1 llinini: I !all. Notte Damr, ii--; 46'\56 
EunoR IN CHIU' Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINt:SS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Tim Lane  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OrFRATI0NS MANAGER  
Chri~iine Kraly  Brian Kessler  

Nt:ws EDITOJI: Anne Marie Mattingly VIIWl'OJNT EDITOR, Lil• Haughey SPORTS i':DIT<JR: Keuy Smith ScF.NE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARY'S fDJTORt Molly McYoy PH<ffo EurroR: Elizaberh L,ng 

ADVERTISING MANAG!oR: Pac Pcccrs Al> DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS AnMtNISTRATOR: Mike Gunvillc Wr.R ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner 0.JNTROU.ER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jo•e Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
0ffJCE MANAGFR/GF.NERAl INFO. ............631-7471 
OHlcti MANAGERIGt:Nti!W. INF0..............631-7471 FAX.... ... .... .. .. ................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
obscrverad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHJEE .......................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME ...................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE......................................631-5313 Ni;ws ......................................................... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 

VIEWPOINT ................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SPORTS......................................................631-4543 obscrver.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 

SAINT MAR'l's............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu 

PHOTO.......... ..........................................631-8767 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site ar http:llobmwr.,id,du for daily urdares ofcampw. news, spares, fe-,11ures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associ,1red Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-m-rhc 
movies/music for 

minute forecasts 
weekly smdenc reviews 

advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

,md rares of print ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observu 

articles published after 
to meet the editors and 

August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily nt:Wspaper pul,lishe<l in print and online by the students of the Univtorsity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edimrial conrem, including advertisements, is not governed by policic:s ofthe administration ofei cher institution. The 01:iserver reserves the right IO refuse advertisements based on conrenr. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represenr rhe opinion of the majoriiy of the Ednor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, lerrcrs and columns present chc views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint spa<e is available co all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lcuers is encouraged. l.<etters to the Editor must be signed and must include wnracr information. 
Qut:,tions rtgarding Ob,M1Jer po/icier 1hould be direct­ed ro r:di1or in ChiefMi/re Connolly. 

DILBERT 
Christianity is possibly the most important religion in the world. However. it is generally seen as having a conservative-bias. as if the Christian Hight represents the entire spectrum of Aaron Kreider believers. In con­trast there is a rcv­
Think,

olutionarv tradition 
within the faith Question, 
called "Liberation Resist 
Theology" that not 
only calls for 
Christians to take action for justice, but 
actually requires it. 
When analyzing Christianity's liberat­ing potential one must first admit its history of failures. From medieval times it was used by monarchs to justify their rule as by "divine right." Governments invoked Church support in their wars against neighboring states, both in reg­ular wars and in explicitly "holy wars" like the Crusades. European imperial­ists used religion to justify their colo­nization of Latin America, Africa, the invasion of North America and to pacify the indigenous inhabitants while prac­ticing genocide. From slavery to South African Apartheid to segregation Christianity has reinforced racism. 
According to Weber Christianity, or specifically Calvinism, helped build early capitalism -and since then it has often sided with the capitalist elites. The conservative churches have sidelined women, subjugating them to their hus­bands and often barring them from the ministry. Finally many so-called "Christians" are leading the struggle against equal rights for gays, lesbians and bisexuals, such as same-sex mar­riage. 
However there are alternative tradi­tions in Christianity dating back to the foundations of the faith. One should rec­ognize that there is an extremely wide range of views and practices contained within Christianity. In the 16th Century, the Church went through a revolution against the traditional hierarchy that sought to make the Church more real for its members and to practice the authentic message, untainted by cen­turies of elitist interpretation. Unfortunately the revolution was com­promised by feudal politicians and the growing bourgeoisie to serve their own ends and is now known as the 
SCOTT ADAMS 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Every day people are straying away Jrnm the Church and going back to God." 
Lenny Bruce comedian 



IT'$ TOO BORING JUST BEING THE DIRECTOR. OF 
INFORMATION, 
OPERATIONS AND 
TECHNOLOGY. 

_____...__=-------J 
O
THE 
BSERVER 
Reformation. 
In the 1960s. another social revolu­
tion swept much of the world and 
Liberation Theology emerged in Latin 
America. It came out of the peoples' 
experience of poverty, dictatorship and 
war. They began to relate these experi­
ences of oppression with the Biblical 
message, reinterpreting the theology 
which previously had been taught top­
down by the Catholic Church, making it 
their own. 
Since then it has spread from Latin America to every imaginable oppressed group (women, blacks, homosexuals and Palestinians) who have replaced a foreign (white, male, straight and European) God, with one that comes from their group -one who suITers and struggles with them for liberation. 
Liberation Theology recognized the bias in mainstream theology that was and still is denied by its practitioners and decided to replace the elitist bias with one for the oppressed. Mainstream theology is created by trained experts, who constitute a privileged class due to their educational requirements. who must often be certified by the Church elite. Liberation theologians looked at the Bible and found stories of the Old Testament prophets speaking out against injustice and of Jesus walking with the poor, women, Gentiles, prosti­tutes and criminals. Jesus spoke out for liberation, rebelled against the state and was killed with the cooperation of the Homan and Jewish elites. It is here that Liberation Theology finds its bias. 
One of Liberation Theology's primary tenets is that unjust institutions are responsible for sin. Why do we live in a time of untold wealth, resource exploitation and production -and yet also one in which there are so many people who are poor and oppressed? Uberation Theology uses a semi­Marxist analysis to find the answer ­namely that institutional forces (mili­tary, political, economic and social) such as the state, armed forces (death squads. army and police), capitalism, patriarchy. racism, sexism and hetero­sexism arc responsible for much of the sin in the world. For instance if some­one steals to feed themselves, they are not sinning; it is the system that made them poor that is sinful. 
Another idea is that of collective sal-
IF ONLY THERE WERE AN E.ASY WAY 
TO 
REMEMBER THAT. 

Monday, November I3, 2000 

vation. While conservative Christians tell people to stop individually sinning to save their own soul, Liberation Theology recognizes the necessity of social change to end the root institu­tional causes of sin. 
Liberation Theology calls for grass­roots democracy. Adherents form Christian base communities. to do theol­ogy for themselves. Their own life expe­rience is critical for the development of theology. Liberation Theology is spread by priests, nuns and laity -and sup­pressed by the Church hierarchy. 
Members of these base communities use Praxis (a combination of practice and theory -action and reflection). They both study the Bible (developing theory) and work on practical issues to improve their lives (e.g. end poverty). 
It is practical. While conservatives use promises of heaven to keep exploited people inactive and apolitical, liberation theology requires that people work to uproot sinful systems of domination ­trying to, at least partially, recreate heaven on earth. 
Liberation Theology is a system of analysis that generates slightly different theologies when applied in different contexts. Different varieties emphasize the oppression of the poor, blacks, women and gays and lesbians. 
The Catholic Church at first accom­modated and incorporated some of the teachings of this theory (ex. Catholic Social Teaching's preference for the poor) but stuck in the Cold War it has mistakenly attacked its larger thrust as being Marxist. Especially since Pope John Paul II, the Catholic Church has moved to the political right. transfer­ring, firing and silencing liberation the­ologians. Unfortunately as the Catholic Church (and most Protestant churches) has shown itself to be susceptible to institutional sin, it is up to individual Christians to inform ourselves about this suppressed revolutionary alterna­tive to mainstream theology -and if you believe it, to transform your life. 
Aaron Kreider's column appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Monday, November 13, 2000 BSERVER page 9 
GUEST COLUMN LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Interpreting the 
voice of the 
people 

NEW YORK, N.Y. 
The presidential election of 2000 will perhaps go down as the closest in United States history. A few hundred votes in one state will ultimately decide who will govern tho country for the next four years. With such a huge burden on these votes and the state overall. it would behoove the election committees in Florida to get the story straight and actual­ly interpret the voice of the people. 
Lucas Bejar
After all. the election is nothing more than the people electing their leader. However. in Florida, this does not seem to be the case. The now-notorious case of 
Columbia 
Palm Beach County is a perfect example. Daily 
The ballot utilized in this highly Spectator Democratic county has been criticized by many as being misleading. Why should we mislead the people voting? Some argue that it doesn't matter if people were confused; the fact is they still voted. l simply ask these people, is that really so? Does it matter whether or not every single vote was counted? Does it matter if people voted for the wrong candidate by accident? 
The simple answer to such simple questions -of course it matters. The truth is that voices of the people in Palm Beach county, whether accidentally or fraudulently, were not heard. 
For starters, 19,200 votes in this county alone were not counted because the voter had punched in two or more boxes for one position. In the state as a whole, 29,000 ballots were not counted for the same reason. Thus, 66 percent of the state's total uncounted ballots due to this one problem came from one county. If this one county had 66 percent of the state population, this would make perfect sense. The truth, however, is that Palm Beach county has a fraction of that population, only 10 percent. It is clear that the Palm Beach voters were confused. 
Regardless, many will argue that there is no legal reasoning for a re-vote. Rather than consider the legal matters of a dis­pute, I will instead focus on the moral grounds for a re-vote. Our great country grants everyone the right to vote for the candidate of his or her choice. When 19,200 people in one county alone are denied this right, or rather their votes are nullified, this right is thrown into question. Surely one can argue that they had the right to vote; instead they just threw away this right by voting twice on one ballot. 
However, the founding fathers surely implied that along with the right to vote comes the right for that vote to count. It does not take a political juggernaut like George W. Bush to realize that these 19,200 votes did not count. President Clinton said, "The people have now spoken... " in reference to the election. 
Indeed they did and in mass numbers. Cnfortunately for our democracy, in some select counties throughout the country, their voices were not heard. 
Palm Beach County should not have a re-vote to be fair. Palm Beach should have a re-vote to uphold the Constitution of the United States of America. Palm Beach should re-vote to allow every single citizen who so chooses to elect the next president of the United States. Palm Beach should re-vote to allow every vote to count. It is not a matter of whether or not Palm Beach should legally be required to do this or whether a judge decides that the county should re-vote. The moral conscience of this currently chaotic nation should be the element calling for a re-vote while the nation's future hangs in the balance. 
Without a re-vote, the legitimacy of the president-elect would be greatly challenged by all those who accidentally voted for an undesired choice as well as any nourishing democracies abroad that look to the United States as an example of dignity. 
For these reasons, Palm Beach County in Florida should be forced to re-vote as to eliminate voter irregularities that could unjustly sway the election to a candidate that would not other­wise deserve to win. 
This column first appeared in the Columbia University news­paper, The Columbia Daily Spectator, on Nov. 10, and is reprinted here courtesy of U-WJRE. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those of the author and not ne"cessarily those ofThe Obseruer. 

Reflecting on 'Courage' 
Church must 
redefine 
chastity 
In response to Nathan Hannan's letter regarding "Courage" in The Observer on Friday, Nov. 10. 
I was one of the people who took down your Courage poster -however there was no malicious or evil intent. I was passing through, noticed the poster, was without pen and wanted to share the lecture time with others -seeing many other informational posters at the time, I simply took one. Sorry if this aroused your conspiratorial suspicions. 
However, Nathan, I must say that after listening to Harvey, this guy is full of baloney! His logic is flawed, his theology selective, his perspective narrow and, frankly, retarded in the 9th Century. 
Scholarship, as well as revelation, must be ongoing. Jesus was not stuck in the Old Testament -he provid­ed something new. 
Likewise, we are not stuck in the first or ninth or even 19th Century-we must provide something new. Further, it must be clear that the call to chastity cannot mean a call to sexual abstinence if married people are called to chastity as well -obviously the call to chasti­ty means something quite different: a call to commit­ment, to truthfulness, to a pure heart. This is what it means to be a celibate, as well as to be be single, as well as to be a committed man and woman (husband and wife). as well as a committed man and man or woman and woman. 
This is what the Church is: committed people, one to another. Sex, however, is how we get to know one another -as well as how some make babies! We need to keep these things straight (or rather, clear). 
I hope that you are as eager to explore alternatives to these two mindsets as you wish others to be in exploring yours. 
William Dell 
Class of '69 November 10, 2000 

Society, not church, breeds hostility 
I would like to suggest that your letter on Friday, Nov. 10, represents a misunder­standing of Father Harvey's comments dur­ing his presentation about the support group Courage. I was at the presentation and when Father Harvey said, "l don't want to talk about the hostile environment" or words to that effect, he was talking about the hostile environment he encounters as a pro-chastity leader who supports Catholic teaching con­cerning homosexuality. 
This hostility was evidenced by the fact that 20 or so of the posters for his talk were torn down within hours of being placed, by the occasional sneers from the audience dur­ing his talk and by the behavior of some "questioners" during the concluding question and answer period. 
The hostility that gays may feel on this campus does not come from people meditat­ing on the call of the Gospel or church teach­ing. "Kill all the fags" scrawled on a bath­room stall was not written by a seminarian after carefully considering the teaching of the Catechism. Hostility toward gays is com­ing from a different element of society than that represented by Father Harvey and Courage and these latter are the wrong tar­gets for the hostility they receive. 
And if this letter gets printed and l get any phone harassment again, I would like who­ever it is to have the courage to identify themselves this time. 
John Bergsma 
Graduate Student November 11, 2000 

Supporting awareness with 
pink ribbons and jeans 
I would like publicly to thank the faculty, staff 
and students of the College of Arts and 
Letters for their support of Breast 
Cancer Awareness morith. We 
organized a fund-raiser within 
the College to support of the 
efforts of the St. Joseph coun­
ty Cancer Society and to 
raise awareness of this 
cancer which afflicts so 
many women. As an effective way of donating money, we desig­nated Wednesday, Oct. 11 as a day in which staff could wear jeans to work in exchange for a $5 donation. Much to our surprise, the sup­port of this ''jean day" was incredi­ble. Many individuals donated much more than the $5 we requested and partic­

ipation spread beyond the staff. Students emptied their pockets of spare change and faculty , and statI who normally do not wear jeans were seen sporting their denim and wearing those pink , ribbons! Thanks to your efforts. we raised $1,220 to support Breast Cancer programs in St. Joseph county. It was heartwarming to sec the College of Arts and Letters come together for this very special event. It is a plea­sure to work with all of you. 
Mary Ellen Koepfle 
Director of Finance and Operations November 7, 2000 


Campus Love 
Nothing is quite as enjoyable and quite as horrible as falling in love during these four years of undergrad. Why any of us go through il all and how we ever have any fun is written deep in our chemical structure, because using logic, Lhere is no good reason to go through with any of il. 


Uons and Tigers and Girls, oh my. (This is written in a guy's perspective, but I assure you lhal there are no enjoyable partc; for girls either.) 
The Search: 
At the time, this doesn't seem like a bad idea. You're a special person with many special gifts to offer. Maybe there is some very special person out there for you to share life with and spend some special time together. Anyway, your hormonal fervor could really use a boost and you're willing to do any­thing to get that libido under a blanket with the lights otT. That includes brush­ing your teeth, tying-your shoes, shav-

Scott Little 
just a little 
ing, combing your hair, acting cool or tough or funny all the 
time -whatever your game may be. This also includes 

working out, and doing your homework in case a girl asks 
for help. If you are one oflhe few skater punks left on cam­
pus. it's time to get that new piercing or tattoo. All this 

makes you look like a great person. People will start wanti­
ng to share anytime, right ...? Just before you are about to 
give up: 
The Courtship: 

So now you've got a few prospects under your belt and it's time to start reeling them in. This is a careful balance. You've got to make sure you don't seem too easy. but you don't want to make it look like you aren't going to make any time for them at all. You don't want to seem like a pushover, but you also don't want to seem like a jerk. You've still got to make time for your friends and let this girl know that you've got plenty of them. You are all also willing to meet all her friends, be honed to her likes and dislikes and, oh, my, gosh, you have the same ones. Now is the time to reinforce that YOU arc a 10 on the cool charts! Activities? You got 'em! And wow, do you look good with your shirt o!T. 
The Maintenance: 

So you picked your favorite one. now it is time to get on with the opening of the treasure chest of fun. The dating is great. You can go out to eat.just the two of you in your own cute and very exclusively special little world -and then you can start explaining to your friends why you can't go out and play football on the quad. You can integrate her into your friend circle to find out that she doesn't lit in like you imagined. Then one day you are studying at the library together and realize you haven't really looked at her the whole time you were there, and when you do, she has a booger on her face. Did you ever imagine that a relationship could be this great? You have to meet her at the opposite dining hall for dinner. You fmd that more and more time disappears at the hands of this man-killer. 
The Break-up: 

Man, you were sure you wanted this to happen. but now that il has. you can't really believe that it was she that broke up with y()u. You can't believe how good you had it for awhile. You spf'lld a lot of time thinking about it You have a fow roads to take after this happens. You can either pledge to yourself to do everything you can within your powers to win her back. or you can try to make her jealous and pre­tend it didn't even matter (but it does ... a lot). You are prob­ably taking years off your lil'c by confusing yourself so much. 
One more alternative is to get depressed. breakdown and then go crazy. This is a gcHJd way to release a lot of hidden cravings you never supposed w1m'! inside you. You never knew that going for a run through the bad part of town al four in the morning could be such a rush. You also never knew that picking lights with strangers could also be a regu­lar paslime. And hey, who ever said that a pecan pie diet was bad for you? 
You soon find yoursnl!'bar.k in Holfs, working out. You're not taking baths again every day, but soon you will, and it will start over again.It's a vicious circle. Some men have died, some have found ways out. such as marriage. Others will go on forever and ever until they get dizzy and change their grip on the bat, shave the tops of their heads or take up their passion with video games. The best way to avoid all of' this mess is to have very short relalionships thal involve a bur/party and have a very special one-night duration. Go ahead and get whatever feelings you want involved in it, but when the 110011 bell rings the next day, be free. Wake-up and say to yourself, "college is great." 
The views expressed in this column are those nfthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
SMC play explores relationships 
playing any­w h e r e between one to six roles, it was difficult to establish the relationships between char­acters. The voices. howev­er, played by Hea, Elizabeth Ann Columbo, Megan Gamble and Katie McGillis. suc­cessfully intro­duced the new atmosphere before the new characters would emerge. This helped clue the audi­ence in to the change of scene and aided in iden­tifying who each character was. 

The difficulty in finding the relationships early in the show made it hard to determine the plot or the main source of conflict between the characters. 
Most simply, the play revolved around 69 characters and how they would act during a typical day in their hometown. With the exception of Voice One, there was not one character that stood out to any extreme. 
This made it hard to deter­mine which characters were involved in any conflict out of the norm. There was obvious struggle seen between Mr. and Mrs. Pugh, played by Annie Lutholtz and Katie McGillis respectively, in regards to their marriage and characters. 
Notable internal struggle also existed in Polly, played by Annie Lutholtz, and within Capt. Cat, played by Melissa Cecelia Gamez Alvarez. Though the struggles were recogniz­able, the climax of events and emotion within the plot was still difficult to determine. 
However, the portrayal of those characters as real people was done beautifully. One scene 

By JENNIE SIMANTZ 
Scene• Writer 
Students of Saint Mary's 
College staged Dylan Thomas' 
"Under Milk Wood" Nov. 8 
through 12 under the direction 
of Katie Sullivan. The produc­
tion was stage managed by 
Katie McVoy. 
The play depicts a single day's events in the small fishing village of Llareggub. The show was performed as a one-act. with no intermission to break the flow of consciousness of the characters or to interrupt the solitary day being portrayed. 
The cast consisted of 18 women portraying 71 charac­ters, including druid dancers and m usi-cians. The set was simple, constructed to repre­sent a dock. on the sea, but exhibited many different areas of the town. 
The actresses used no props but made good use of pan­tomime to enhance their actions and reinforce who their character was at that moment in the play. Scrim was used in the set to silhouette characters and musicians. adding to the atmosphere of tho scene being played. 
Musical background to much of the show was provided by Katherine Trnka on the violin and Katie McIntyre on the flute, accompanied by a dance of the druids, another featuring a group of children and a beauti­ful song by Annie Lutholtz. Elizabeth Cenova choreo­graphed the show and was fea­tured performing a solo dance as Dancer Polly. 
Jennifer Ilea, who portrayed Voice One, was the only actress who did not play multiple parts. Her use of intonation, body and facial expressions added intrigue and animation to her character's long monologues. Her character was further enhanced by the constant smile she wore throughout the entire­ty of the performance. It was Rea who successfully set the mood in this small town for the audience to enjoy. 
Because the show boasted a small cast, with each woman between Lily (Megan Gamble) and Lily's mirror image (Bethany Tovey) stood out among the others. The use of pantomime. touch, space and similarities was executed very well; it was as though the actresses were really seeing themselves in one another, never breaking character. 

Katie Sullivan designed the costuming displayed in "Under Milk Wood." Characters wore very simple costumes com­prised of simple pants or skirts, blouses and accessories such as aprons or vests. Tho wardrobes effectively established the iden­t'ity of the characters at any given moment. 
The coloring of the costumes was vivid, in drastic contrast to the dreary background used to create the fishing village. Simple costumes facilitated the quick changes that most actresses were required to per­
form  due  to  their  multiple  
roles.  
The  use  of color contrasts  
was  also  enhanced  by  the  

Lighting Designer/Technical 
Director Thomas Boelman. The lighting helped to direct the audience's attention toward a specific charac­ter. At times, the house would be lit, making the audience feel even more included in the lives of' the characters. 
The audience members may have left the theater with a bit of' confusion simply because of the diffi­culty establishing some relationships and conflicts. 
Aside from this, the characters seemed real and the use of set, light­ing, movement. vocal and facial expressions drew the audience into their lives. 
The students of Saint Mary's beautifully per­formed a unique melodra­ma, performing a variety of roles that served to showcase their true talent. 
Amanda Greco con­tributed to this report. 

NSIDER 
THF 

Monday, November 13, 2000 OBSERVER .Notre Dame vs. Boston College 

LISA VEL TE/The Observer Irish quarterback Matt Lovecchio hands off to running back Tony Fisher during Saturday's victory over Boston College. Notre Dame's record stands at 7-2 heading into next Saturday's game against Rutgers. 
Irish rush past young Eagles' defense 
By TIM CASEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
He played defens.ive back at the University of Richmond, graduated in 1983 and then signed as a free agent with the Dallas Cowboys. After a brief stint with the Chicago Blitz of the USFL, Mike London's playing career ended in 1985. 
But in Saturday's late afternoon hours, the current Boston College defensive line coach envisioned a return to the field. 
"I was getting ready to suit up myself," London said. 
And why not? His unit's best player (Antonio Garay) injured his knee on the first play of the year, two others (Sean Guthrie and Steve Martin) suffered that same injury during the second quarter on Saturday and two main contributors (freshmen Justin llinds and Doug Goodwin) combined for 29 tackles in the first nine games. 
Not quite Chris Hovan and company, who limited Notre Dame to 95 yards on the ground in 1999. 
The Irish seized the opportunity and rushed for a season-high 380 yards en route to a 28-16 victorv. Notre Dame ran on 61 of its 73 plays ·from scrimmage. Junior tailback Tony Fisher carried 26 times for a career-best 196 yards. 
The last time an Irish player ran for 
Notre Dame runs for 380 yards in 28-16 victory 
more yards, a Bush resided at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. 
"Their big guys just beat our little guys up front," Boston College coach Tom O'Brien said. "That was the bottom line." 
All week, talk centered on two topics: whether the only two Division 1-A foot­ball Catholic schools were "rivals" and what the Notre Dame players remember from last season, when Hovan ripped up the Stadium turf and brought several chunks back to Chestnut Hill. 
As usual, coach Bob Davie claimed to ignore the pre-game hype. 
"I just let that dog eat." Davie said. "I stayed away from any discussions of what happened last year. I wasn't going to make it any bigger than it needed to be." 
Yet a picture of the incident appeared on the front page of each player's scout­ing report. 
"It really leaves a sour feeling in your stomach when you see something like that," guard Jim Jones said. "But we're a totally ditfenmt team this year." 
That became more apparent on Saturday. Whereas Jarious Jackson set Notre Dame single season records for, passing yards, completions and attempts and also ranked second in rushing yards last season, this year's squad relies on a more balanced attack. 
And an attack that has not included Fisher as a key contributor. Prior to Saturday's game, the Irish's leading rush­er in 1999 had gained just 22 5 yards. When starter Julius Jones suffered a bruised thigh in the first half, Fisher became the featured back. His perfor­mance against Boston College marked the highest total since Reggie Brooks ran for 227 yards against USC in 1992. 
"It was just Tony's day to show what he can do," said tailback Terrance Howard, who contributed 84 yards on 16 carries. "This guy deserves 20 carries a game." 
Another difference lies in the defense. Last season, the Irish allowed 442 yards to the Eagles in the middle of a November to forget. 
On Saturday, a Boston College offense ranked I 3th in the country prior to the game, gained 296 yards (including 124 on the ground) and trailed the entire game. In the first three quarters, the Eagles managed just 179 yards of offense. 

"That's how we played out there man," cornerback Brock Williams said. "With emotion." 
Credit the special teams as well for leading the Irish to their fifth straight vic­tory since Matt LoVecchio (\cvho threw for 86 yards and ran for 80 more on Saturday) took over. Chris Yura gained four yards (after a fake punt) for a first down in the first quarter and a kickoff return unit ranked first in the country averaged nearly 25 yards on four runs. But it was the field goal kicker (Nick Setta) and holder (Adam Tibble) who gave the Irish a comfortable 28-10 lead. 
Setta lined up for a 22-yard attempt late in the third quarter. Tibble received the snap from John Crowther and instead of placing the ball on the grass, ran to his left and pitched to Setta for the touch­down. 
"Adam saw they thought we were going to kick it so he called it," Setta said. "I had the easiest jol.J." 
The 12th meeting between the schools had less suspense than David Gordon, Deke Cooper and the squirrel provided in the past eight years. But rcgardless,the Irish are two wins away from a probable Bowl Championship Series berth. 
"A Jot of people were doomsday predic­tors for this team early in the season," Davie said. "But I think everyone felt­internally that we had an opportunity to be pretty good." 


player of the game  quote of the game  stat of the game  
Tony Fisher The junior tailback rushedfor 196  "Their big guys beat our little guys up front. That was the  zero passes In the 98-yard scoring drive in  
yards ­ the 11th best rushing per­ bottom line. "  the second quarter that put the  
formance in Notre Dame history.  Irish up 14-3, Notre Dame went  
Fisher scored two touchdowns in  Tom O'Brien  down.field without throwing a  
the game.  Boston College head coach  single pass.  

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 13, 2000 
report card 
B+ 
quarterbacks: Lo Vecchio completl'd 75 percent ofhis passes. ran for So yards and improved lo 5-0 as a starter. Whal more can you ask? 
A 
running backs: Fisher brought back 
memories ofhis play in 1999 and 
1/oward played well. h'11en without Jones. the rurming a.flack turned in its best performance ,lthe .I1ear. 
B 
receivers: C:cwght onlyJi1.•e passes on 
the afternoon 1ml were solid. Finally 
1/olloway made a catch. 
A-
offensive line: !Jominated the fJurmg 
/Josion College dt>_{ensi11e front. 
Cleared the way for 380 pards and 
allrm•ed 110 sacks. 
B+ 
defensive line: Wem,er's first-quarter interception starlPd another fine performance by the front. Legree had 
two tackles for losses against a tal­ented line. 
B+ linebackers: Denman led the team in tackfPs again with nine. including four unassisted tackles. Boiman had six tackles. 
B 
defensive backs: Ellis burned the unit, 
qrabbingfive balls for 93 yards. 
Sapp, Israel and Driuer ranked sec­ond, third andfourth in tackles. !Jeckstrom played well in an expanded role. 
A-
special teams: Setta 's touchdown 
sealed the victory. The fake punt 
and kick returns added to an improved unit. 
A-
coaching: A year ago, Davie provided excuses for everything. This year, he 
doesn't need to. The faked punt and field goal showed some guts. 
3.44 
overall: The improbable run continued. Two more wins and the Irish will be in a bowl. one year after worry­ing about the major NCAA violation. 
adding up the numbers 
number of rushing yards by Fisher Saturday 
196 
number ol Notre Dame rushing yards Saturday
380 
amount of time it took the 
I 2 o 
Irish to score their first : touchdown Saturday 
2 
number of lost fumbles by Notre Dame against Boston 
College 
number of lost fumbles by 
4 
Notre Dame this season 
number of passing yards by Matt
100 
LoVecchio 
last time Notre Dame won a football game in November prior to 
1·998 
Saturday 

IRISH INSIGHT 

While I was attending my last football game in Notre Dame Stadium as a student on Saturday, I heard something that infuriated me. 
The guys sitting behind me were casting insults at the players after every botched play. I fully understand being disap­pointed in bad plays, but the guys on the team deserve better from their classmates than to be belit­tled by them, especially in the last home game of their careers. 
Varsity athletes at Notre Dame warrant more credit than they receive. Yes, they get a free educa­tion, but they also give a lot to the University in return. 
In exchange for their athletic scholarship. they sacrifice the pos­sibility of ever being a regular stu­dent. 
Athletes spend long hours in practice every day striving to improve. Their heavily booked schedule leaves them with little time to spend on studies or a social life. 
Most people don't realize the amount of hard work that goes into playing for a varsity team at an ath­letics-crazy school like Notre Dame. They are thanked for their efforts by Notre Dame "fans" that rip on them for turning in anything lcs_', than an undefeated season that ends with a National Championship. 
Nobody's perfect. Guys are going to drop passes no matter how great of receivers they are; they're going to miss blocks no matter how many times they practice the move. But it's not because of a lack of effort or time put in, definitely not with this year's bunch. 
The most-recognized players of Notre Dame's most popular sports -football, men's basketball and women's basketball -can't go any­where without being hounded for autographs and photo shoots. Most willingly oblige, but the constant attention can get old. 


Irish stars also have their every move analyzed by other students, becoming the topic of dining hall gossip -"Does so-and-so have a girlfriend/boyfriend?". "Guess who I saw at Finnigan's." or "What's so­and-so like?" 
I know. People ask me these ques­tions all the time, assuming that as a sportswriter, I must have some kind of insight into the lives of every athlete in the sports I write about. Even if I did, which I don't, I have no desire to contribute to the sea of rumors surrounding Notre Dame athletes. 
Notre Dame athletes also help make Notre Dame what it is -a cult following around the nation. Do you think alumni would support Notre Dame to the same extent if Notre Dame dropped athletics or suddenly went 0-11 every year in football? 
The students behind me at Notre Dame's win over Boston College obviously have a few credits left to go in the class department before graduation. Maybe they should have attended Friday night's pep rally -they could have learned something from Joey Getherall's speech. 
The senior wide receiver thanked God, his parents, his coaches, his teammates [who he considers brothers], the seniors and all the Notre Dame fans for their support and for allowing him to play for Notre Dame. He talked about the dream come true of playing for Notre Dame and how sad he would be to finish his career here, so sad that he had to pause as he fought off tears. 
Getherall also mentioned a teenager named Scott Delgadillo, and the inspiration to fight through pain and fatigue that he and the team take from Delgadillo. Delgadillo, a huge Notre Dame fan, is battling leukemia. What Getherall didn't say was how kind the Irish players and coaching staff have been to the boy, sending him get­well wishes, allowing him access to the locker room and inviting him to a game. 

That's been the norm for Getherall and Co., who represent Notre Dame as well as any member of the Board of Trustees. At the end of practice and following home foot­ball games, the Irish postpone din­ner or visits with family members to toss a football back and forth with well-wishing kids, sign autographs and get their pictures taken. 
Not just football players, but almost all Notre Dame athletes, do the same. 
My younger brothers, who are 7, 10 and 12 years old, are Notre Dame fanatics. When they came to campus the weekend of the Notre Dame-Air Force football game, members of the men's basketball team posed for photos with my brothers. David Graves even played one-on-one with my brother Brendan, who still thinks he won the game. 
When this year's football seniors hoisted their gold helmets for the final time to the student section. they deserved every bit of cheering they got. What they haven't earned is the negative comments and occa­sional phone calls or emails they get after a loss. 
I hope we win the next two games, go to a BCS game and come away victorious. However, if that doesn't happen. try, if you can, to be as classy as the guys on the team are and show them your support. 
So the next time you get an urge to shout out an offensive comment to a Notre Dame athlete, think twice. They've devoted four years of their lives to making Irish eyes smile. Why don't you return the favor? 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Monday, November 13, 2000 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Fisher rushes from reserve role to record book 
against Oklahoma. Fisher By NOAH AMSTADTER credits the Irish offensive line 
Assisrant Sporn Editor 
f'or much of his success. 
"I think it was a total team 
Following two breakout effort," said Fisher. "The garnt•s against Navy and West offensive line was groatVirginia while playing for the 
!Saturday] and when I was injurod Julius .Jones, junior tired, Terrance was able to tailback Tony Fisher returned 
come in and help out." to his backup status two weeks Fisher's big day eontinued ago against Air Force, carrying into the third quarter. On the the ball only eight times !'or a 
opening drive, Fislrnr's 21­total or 21 yards. yard rush downfield on first­Wlrnn Jones sustained a and-10 at the Eagles' 46-yard­
bruis11d thigh during the open­
tine put the Irish in scoringing drive of' Saturday's game, 
position. Following three con­
Fislwr proved more than rnady secutive rushes of two, 18 and to sL<~p in and fill the roln of one yard. respectively, to put star Lailba1:k. In the 11th best the Irish on the four-yard line, performance by a singtH rusher Notre Dame wenl up 21-7 on a in Notre Dame history, the 
Fisher dive. junior rushed for 196 yards fisher also contributed on 
and two touchdowns. tho final Irish scoring drive, The strong rushing perfor­
taking the ball 49 yards down­mance proved essential in 
field on the first play of a 48­defeating an 
second scor­
Eagles team ing drive 
noted for their 
"I think it was a total that culmi­tough pass nated in a
team effort. The offensive 

defense. 
Nick Setta 
Freshman tine was great 
touchdown quarterback [Saturday]." rush on a Matt Lovecchio 
fake field­tlirew tho ball g o a I
Tony Fisher

only 12 timPs attempt.
the entire Irish running back 
The victo­
game, showing ry was sweet 
the coaching 
redemptionstaffs commitment to attacking for Fisher, who remembered 
the young Boston College last season's defeat at the defensive line. 
hands of the Eagles. Following "We felt like we could run the 
the win. a Boston College play­ball," said Irish head coach 
er was seen ripping the turf off Bob Davie, "but more than that 
the ground of Notre Dame we felt that we needed to run 
Stadium. When asked if he 
the ball." 
was taking any of the turf Fisher's big day began with home to remember the gamethe Irish up 7-3 in the second 
by, Fisher simply responded, quarter. After receiving the 
"I don't want to take the turf ball at the Notre Dame 2-yard 
home because this is my home line. the Irish were able to right now." push the ball downfield -led While Fisher's figurative
by a combination of runs by home is on the field, he actual­junior Terrance Howard, 
ly lives in Sorin Hall. His 
Fisher and Lovecchio. 
roommate in the oldest dorm A Lovecchio scramble gave 
on campus is Howard, who 
the Irish a first down at the spoke with pride regarding his 
Boston College 27-yard line. On best friend's game.
the next play Fisher took the "It was just Tony's day to 
son. When starting quarter­

hand-off. and ran 37 yards 
show what he can. This guy back Arnaz Battle went downuntouched down the sideline deserves 20 carries a game just in the season's second game,for the touchdown. The scoring like everybody else," he said. first Gary Godsey and later
drive was the longest by a 
The relationship between Lovecchio stepped up to per­l\otre Dame team since the Fisher and Howard is symbolic 
form well as a replacement.

Irish marched 99 yards down­of the team-first attitude Fisher and Howard bothfield in last season's victory 
embodied by the Irish this sea-
stepped in for Jones after Jones 



scoring summary & stats 
scoring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 
team .teci.>ril ,}\p'()fll}S Boston College 3 0 7 6 16 7 7 14 0 28
1 Oklahoma 9·0 1,714 Notre Dame 2 ·Miaml{Fla,) IMi •)i.1,.6~, 
team statistics ND BC
3 Florida State itM 1,629 

first downs 21 15
4 Florida 9·1 1,5~1 5 Oregon 9•1 ... '1,4lJ0 rushes-yards 61-380 30-124 6 Washington 9;1 1,429 passing yards 86 172 7 VlrglniaTech 9,;1 Yt,. t.aat, ·. comp-att-int 9-12-0 15-29-2 8 Oregon St. 9•1 . .t,2&3 punt return yards 4-97 4-70 9 Kansas St. . 
. 9,2. JJ..:!,1M: kickoflreturn yds 2-17 5-93 
10 Nebraska 8.;2· . •.,.:;;•lilQl• .,. · 

punts-avg. yards 4-40.0 8-39.6 
11 NOTRE DAME N 1,oqa 

Jumbles-lost 2-2 0-0
12 . Ohio.St; 
,; &•Z< ; :<:9.51Pf. . 

penalties-yards 7-77 7-58
13 Mississippi St. H 896:c 

time ofpossession 34:29 25:31
14 Texas 15 TCU individual statistics 
. .. ll> '·••··';';~lli:,:~

16 Clemson s:2 '>'662'/:;. passing 17 PurdO.e. 
·... !t. -< ;:;~If,· ND -Lovecchio 9-12-0-86 BC -St. Pierre 15-29-2-172 
18 Auburn 

mshing
19 MlchlqitR .. 1"3 ... ,.... 543. 

20 . GeorgiaTeGh;' t>{'. •· ';<41i~Y: ...· NJJ -Fisher26-196, Howard 16-84, Lovecchio 10-73, Jones 5-19, Setta 1-5, Yura 1-4, Givens 1-1
21 TexasA&M 7~3 

BC -Green 15-81, Dewalt 1-33, Washington 8-22, St. Pierre 6-(-12)
22 Georgia O#.' 
~'~ 

23 Norlhweslerri .. 7-3 
receiving 24 Southern Miss. H-ND -Howard 3-41, Givens 3-13, Holloway 1-17, Hunter 1-8, 25 South Catonn:a · 7~:f". Fisher 1-7 BC -Ellis 5-93, Washington 3· 
22, Burke 3-20, Dewalt 2-24, Read 1-9, Utzler 1-4 
other tean.:ts receiitJtng,I!Ote,.st;UU,~7} ·· '~t\ ·• Leading tacklers Tennessee 56, Louisville 49,'ToredoU, UTEP 14i:l\lr ND -Denman 9, Sapp 8, Israel 7, Driver 6, Boimiln 6, Legree 5, Force 8,. CotQ,ado Iowa St. s; fllil!-l$$ip I; Beckstrom 3, Weaver 3, Walton 3, Owens 2, Dykes 2 

, ,-.,:_;;,·.T)i -. -_.. >i .• : '%\~?i. ~-r-.:--~ 

BC -Burch 11, Rossy 9, Ordway 7, Walls 6, Johnson 6, Leavitt 6, Poole 5, Bolden 5, Ott 5, Flores 4, Parent 4, Ryan 4 
struggled with injury in mid­October. Rather than being upset when Jones returned to his starting role against Air Force, Fisher and Howard sim­ply waited for their chance, a chance that came on Saturday. 
""We've got three great 
backs out there and if some­body goes down, any of us can step it up," said Howard. "We've shown that the last cou­ple of weeks. When you get your opportunities, you've got to go out and make the best of it." 
scoring summary 
1st 
ND· 13:40 Jones 1-yd. run Sella kick. 7·0 ND 
!JC -6:35 Sutphin 43-yd. FG, 7·3 ND 
2nd 
ND· 4:49 
Fisher 37-yd. run Sella kick, 14-3 ND 
3rd 
ND· 10:31 
Fisher 1•yd. run Setta kick, 21-3 ND 
NO -10:31 Utzler 4-yd. pass from St. Pierre Sutphin kick, 21·10 ND 
MJ-1:51 Setlll 5-yd. run Setlll kick, 20·10 ND 
4th 
/JC· 5:40 
Dewall 20•yd, pass from St. Pierre 28·16 ND 


,---------------------------------------------------~---­
O
THE 

Notre Dame vs. Boston College BSERVER Monday, November 13, 2000 
-




DUFFY MAR IE ARNOUL r/The Observer 

Senior strong safety Ron Israel (5) returns a late-game interception of Boston College quarter­back Brian St. Pierre. 
Notre Dame got its best performances from players in reserve roles Saturday. Tony 
Fisher, stuck all season in a reserve role behind tailback Julius Jones, ran for the fourth­
best rushing performance ever by an Irish player in Notre Dame Stadium. Hon Israel, 
backing up Gerome Sapp at strong safety for the day, intercepted a pass. Nick Sctta's 
biggest contribution was not his kicking game, but a 5-yard rushing touchdown. 
Quarterback Matt LoVecchio did more running than he did passing. 


Kicker Nick Setta (13) follows through on an extra point attempt. Setta also ran for a 5-yard touchdown on a fake field goal attempt. 

Monday, November 13, 2000 page 11 
'Love's Fire' burns hot 
FIT presents a contemporary take on seven Shakespearean sonnets 
By SPENCER BEGGS Scene Writer  "Bitter Sauce,"· is written by Eric Bogosian and inspired by Sonnet 118. The plot centers  nameless characters, por­trayed by junior Rachel L. Jones and senior Lisa  sexual fantasies. Esther, played by Kelly Hart, psycho­analyzes the stream of con­ tionship. Holden, however, is much more concerned with her party and the advice of  
on a couple and their impend- Fabrega, the show is a strug­ sciousness pouring forth from  her obsequious socialite -com­ 
Thursday night  - the cold  ing marriage slated for the  gle between two would-be  Hendryk,  and  he  in  turn  panion Spencer, portrayed by  
rain sweeps over the campus in sheets, pushing the popula­tion indoors. Everything is quiet. still, peaceful and cold.  next day. The woman, Rengin, tearfully confesses to the man, Herman, that she has been having an affair.  lovers trying to control each other's desire and evoke pas­sion. The third, "140," inspired  forces her to confront her own problems. This piece, written by Tony Kushner, is a poignant piece about the frus­ the capable Jeni Rinner, than finding love. Wendy Wasscrstein's interpretation of sonnet 94 searches for the  
However, the atmosphere is  The  rather straight-laced  by sonnet 140 (bet you didn't  trations of love. Moreover, the  true nature of love and what  
quite different on the stage of Washington Hall, Inside, it is a tern­ Love's Fire  spouse-to-be, played by fresh­man Thomas Conner, must  see that one coming), con­fronts infidelity and the nature of modern relation­ships. The show itself is bro­ piece reveals the difference in perceptions of love and what love actually becomes. "Painting You" treats the  happens to lovers once they are parted. The final piece is John Guarc's interpretation of son­ 
pest  of  sound,  . Where:Washington  come  to  grips  ken  into  separate  scenes  audience to the single musical  nets  153 and  154,  "The  
movement  and  Half  with his love's  between a web of lovers, each  performance of the evening.  General of Hot Desire." This  
emotion -any­thing but peaceful.  . When: Nov. 15·19  infidelities, as well as their dif­ betraying and betrayed ~y one  feeling another.  The show follows a painter trying to portray his lover  piece serves as the capstone of the show and interestingly  
lt is the site of the final rehearsals for the Department of Film Theater and  . Ticketsavailableatthe LaFortuneBoxOfilce, 631-8128  fcring percep­tions of love. The conserva­tive Herman  Written by Marsha Norman, "140" takes a hard look at the structure of rnlaiionships and the nature of deception.  with the same passion he felt at the beginning of their rela­tionship. The beautiful voices of Lisa Marie Fabrega and  ties all the pieces of the show together. It is the story of stu­dents trying to make a play out of the sonnets. Eventually,.  
Telvision's latest prod u c ti on , "Love's Fire."  . Tickets are $gfor reserved seats, $8 for  serves as the perfect foil for the obstinate  One of the standouts of the entire performance is "Terminating." Based on son­ senior Jeni Rinner lead the way for this playlet as it .examines how love grows and  they assume the role of the characters and act out the play which is a comprehen­ 
"Love· s Fire" is  senior citizens and $6 for  d r u n k en n e s s  net  7 5,  the  show  is  split  changes. Inspired by sonnet  sive description of love,  
a collection of seven short plays  students  and bi-polar mood swings of  between the real conversation _, of a psychiatrist and her ex­ 102, William Fin wrote the music to "Painting You."  Love's Fire is directed by FTT Artist in Residence Siiri  
composed by seven  Rengin,  por­ patient and each character's  Another standout of the  Scott.  It  will  be  showing  
contemporary playwrights.  trayed by the remarkably tal­ imagined conversations with  production is "Waiting for  Wednesday through Saturday  
Each playlet is actually an interpretation of one of  ented Kathryn Weil, a junior. The second show in the  their respective lovers. Brendan P. Geary, a junior,  Phillip Glass," the story of an upscale New York party. The  at 7:30 p.m. There will also be a matinee showing Sunday  
Shakespeare's sonnets. The  series, "Hydraulics Phat Like  plays the wonderfully dis­ party's  hostess,  Holden,  at 2:30 p.m.  
14 actors in the show exam- Mean," written by Ntozake  jointed  and  emotional  played  by  junior  Beth  This play contains strong  
ine the many aspects of love  Shange,  is  a  poetic piece  Hendryk. Hendryk seeks help  Hoffmann,  runs into her ex­ language and content, which  
and its consequences.  examining desire and wanting  from his former psychiatrist,  flame, Gerry, who  wants to  some viewers may find offen­ 
The first of the playlets,  in love. Played between two  Esther, ~bout whom he has  rekindle their former rela­ sive.  

Think you've got the best dorm room on ND's or SMC's camyus? Prove it. E-mail us at scene@nd.edu and tell us why your room is the best. Prizes will be awarded and winners will be featured in The observer. 

~ Acousticafe, LaFortune Jean-Luc Godard, $2 admis­
-"Tango," International Film ~ "Love's Fire," Washington -"Breathless," directed by Hall, 7:30 p. m. 
Student Center, 9-I 1:30 p.m. sion, Annenburg Auditorium, 
Festival, LaFortune 
Montgomery Theater, 8 p.m. 
-"Scary Movie, " 10I The Snite Museum, 7 p.m. 
~ Notre Dame Choral and 
Chamber Orchestra, Basilica of 

Debartolo Hall, $2 admission, 301 Rockne Memorial, $4 per 
~ Ballroom Dancing Lessons, 
10:30 p.m. lesson, 8:30 p. m. 
the Sacred Heart, 8 p.m. 

-"East is East, " 155 Debar­tolo Hall, $2 admission, JO p.m. 

~ "Scary Movie, " IO I ~ Princes ofBabylon, Alumni Senior Club, $3 
~ ''Love's Fire," Washington Hall, 7:30 p.m. Debartolo Hall; $2 admission, 
admission for students, $5 general admission, 
~ Notre Dame Brass Ensemble Concert, 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. 
J0p.m. 

Basilica of the Sacred Heart, 8 p.m. ~ "East is East," 155 
~ "Scary Movie," JOI Debartolo Hall, $2 admis­Debartolo Hall, $2 admission, 
sion, 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. 
-"East is East," 155 Debart<Jlo Hall, $2 admis­sion, 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. 
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 13, 2000 
VOLLEYBALL 

) 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
Spons Wri1er 
For the fifth time in the past six years, the No. 21 Irish vol­leyball finished regular season conference play undefeated at 11-0 with a win over Syracuse Saturday. 
"To be the only team unde­feated in the Big East was a def­inite confidence booster," said senior co-captain Christi Girton. 
Notre Dame has lost just two games in its six-year participa­tion in the Big East conference. 
Notre Dame. 23-5 overall edged over the Orangewomen, 24-10 overall and 6-5 in the Big East. in four games (15-13, 13­15, 15-5, 15-3). 
"We knew that they were going to be good. They've always played pretty well against us. We expected that they'd be playing tough," said Girton 
Saturday's victory marks the Notre Dame's eighth win over Syracuse, with the Orangewomen having just one past win in 1981. 
Girton led the team's regular season play with 370 kills while juniors Marci Bomhack and Malinda Goralski led the defen­sive season with 220 digs and 118 blocks respectively. 
Girton led the Irish perfor­mance against Syracuse with 20 kills, eight blocks and five digs while junior Kristy Kreher totaled 18 kills and nine digs. 
Junior Marcie Bomhack and Malinda Goralski added to the Irish offensive performance with 14 kills each. Senior co­captain Denise Boylan racked up 67 assists, 10 digs and six kills. 
"They are more of a one-play­er based team so our diversity was a strength. The fact that we could go to more than one per­son was a definite advantage," Girton said. "On paper we were definitely stronger overall, but they've always been known for their blocking. If they're set up and they read the hitter pretty well, they put a good fight. But, it wasn't anything that we couldn't handle." 
The Irish will move on to the Big East tournament scheduled Nov. 18 and 19 at the Joyce Center. 
Notre Dame has earned the top seed for this weekend. 
"I hope that we can get a lot of support from the fans this weekend -it makes it more fun for us. We'll come out and play hard no matter what, but having people behind you. to support you really helps," Girton said. 
NFL 

Colts knock off Jets, 23-15 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Peyton Manning and the Indianapolis Colts made all the plays early. And that turnrd out to be enough to withstand the New York Jets' customary comeback at the encl. 
The Jets, who had rallied four Limes in the final four minutes this season, failed to complete another remarkable finish Sunday night as the Colts hung on for a 23-15 victory. 
"We knew it would be a tough game. a close game, a hard fought game." Colts wach Jim Mora said. "And ii turned out to be that way. It went down to the final play." 
As it always seems to for the Jets (6-4) 
Only on this night, the Jets simply dug themselves too big a hole -for the third week in a row. 
"We keep saying you can't let it slip away, you can't let it slip away. Then before you know it, it has slipped away," said running back Curtis Martin, who carried 21 times for 93 yards. 
The Jets let this one slide during the first three quarters. 
The Colts (7-3) emptied the playbook, opening the game with a flee-flicker, succeeding on a fake field goal in the sec­ond quarter and employing an end around in the third quar­ter. 
"It was very important to try and get points on them early because we knew the Jets were a good second-half team," Manning said. "We wanted to jump on them early." 
The Colts did exactly that. 
They strung together their most time-consuming touch­down drive of the season, 6:35, and took a 7-0 lead vvhen Manning hooked up with Marvin Harrison on a 6-yard scoring strike. 
Then Jeff Burris picked off a pass by Vinny Testaverde at the Colts 6, and Indianapolis proceeded to march 83 yards, capped by Edgerrin James' 2­yard touchdown run early in the second quarter. 
James finished with 131 yards on 31 carries and became the fastest Colts player to reach 1,000 yards --in 220 carries, one fewer than Eric Dickerson in 1987 and 1988. 
'Tm playing hard and this is 

what I expect. Any time I go 
out and preparP, I want good 
things to happen," James said. 
"The day I stop prep,tring, I 
would expect not to get yards. 
As long as I keep preparing 
and play hard, this is what I 
expect." 

But after the Colts built a 17­
0 hall'time lead and made it 
20-0 midway through the third 
quarter, courtesy of two Mike 
Vanderjagt field goals. the Jets 
started another improbable 
comeback. 

Dedric Ward caught a 16­yard touchdown pass from Testaverde with five! seconds left in the third quarter. That got the Jets within 20-7. 
Indianapolis countered with a 35-yard field goal 4:03 into the fourth quarter. and the Jets answered that with a 9­yard touchdown run from Martin. Then Testaverde con­nected with Marcus Coleman on a 2-point conversion pass that cut the lead to 23-15 with 5: 11 remaining. 
"It was a slugfost out there," Mora said. "These were two good football teams going back and forth. It was a battle. They punched us and we punched them and you just hope you get the final punch in." 
After punting to the Jets with 
2:23 left, Testaverde did his best to rally the Jets. 
He moved the Jets to the Colts 28, then missed on four straight passes -and left with a third straight loss. 
Rams 38, Giants 24 

Are the St. Louis Hams in trouble without Kurt Warner and Marshall Faulk? Ask the New York Giants. 
Trent Green threw touch­down passes to four receivers and scrambled for another, and the Rams used three turnovers and a couple of big plays on special teams to beat the Giants. 
"This just goes to show this is a complete team," said Warner, last season's regular­season and Super Bowl MVP who has been sidelined since Oct. 22 with a broken linger. 
"This isn't about one or two guys," Warner added. "This is about a complete team, what we have from top to bottom. Our defense played great. Our offense played great. This is more the team we saw last year. This shows we're a great football team." 
The loss ~nd<~d a l'uur-ga1111• 
winning streak !'or the error­
prone Giants (7-3). who again 
showed limy arc-i not in Lim 
same class with the NFL's elite 
teams. 
New York. also was out­
classed in losing to Washington 
and Tennessee, is a half-ganw 
ahead of Philadelphia in the 
NFC East. 
"We heard all the nay-sayers say we hadn't b11atnn anybody and is this team a l1rst-plac1· team"" Giants tacklH Lomas Brown said. "We wanted to answer those questions ,uHl silence th<)llL We didn't" 
Green's touchdown passes covHred 1 yard to Holand Williams, 5 yards to Torry llolt, 8 yards to Hicky Proehl and 34 yards to Isaac Bruce. Warner's backup also scram­bled 18 yards for a touchdown, a run that gave St. Louis a 28­7 halftime lead. 
The !'our touchdown passes tied Green·s single-game best. set while playing for Washington against Arizona in 1998. He finished 27-of'-45 for 272 yards, and he also rushed for 54 yards on six carries on a day the Hams rushed for 141 yards against the Giants, the NFL's second-best rushing defense. They are ranked sev­enth overall. 
"Any time we're able to put that many points on the board, I'm happy," said Green, who has started the last three games. 
Faulk, who led the NFL in combined rushing-receiving yards, has missed the last two games with a knee injury. 
Kerry Collins threw touch­down passes of 13 yards to Tiki Barber and 46 and 34 yards to Ike Hilliard. The longer one started a 1Cl-point run by the Giants at the start of third quarter that closed New York to 28-17. 
After llilliard's long TD made it 28-14, Green was intlircept­ed by linebacker Hyan Phillips on the next play from scrim­mage, giving the Giants posses­sion on the St. Louis 11. A run by Barber got the ball almost to the 1. but Hon Dayne was stuffed on the next two plays, and New York settled for Brad Daluiso's field goal. 
Green then drove the Hams for two scores. a 50-yard field goal by Jeff Hall and the touch­down pass to Bruce, which was set up by London FletchPr's interception. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Dc,,dlirn: fo, next-day classified, is 3 p.m. Al classified, rnu.1c be p_repaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the nghr to edit all cl.issific<ls for content widwut issuing rclund.;. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
HOUSE FOR LEASE 7/01 
4/5 bedrm. 3 blocks to campus 
773-486-8622 
3,4 & 6 BDRM HOMES_ FURN NOW & 2001-02. 272-6306 
HOUSES FOR RENT 
2001-2002 10 BEDROOMS­4 BATHS 
3 KITCHENS 
5 BEDROOMS 
2 BATHS 
GREAT FRONT PORCH 
BOTH HOUSES HAVE WASHERS, 
DRYERS AND ALARM SYSTEMS 
CALL KRAMER 
234-2436 
OR CELL 274-1501 _ 
WANTED 
EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP­MENTCENTER PAIDNOLUNTEER OPPORTUNITY Earn money and build resume expe• rience while interacting with delightful young children. The Early Childhood Development Centers at SMC and ND, are currently accepting applica­lions from college students tor part time employment positions beginning immediately and for next semester. The hours vary, including MWF 
12:30 p.m. -1:30 p.m. and MWF 
9:30 a_m_ -11 :30 a.m. II you are interested in applying, please contact Kari Alford, Program Director at ECDC-SMC, at 284-4693 or Thayer Kramer, Program Director at ECDC­ND, for more information and an application. 

YOUTH DIRECTOR needed At First United Methodist Church in S. Bend. 8-12 hrs ./wk. $100/wk. Call 233-9463. Ask for Dan or Jen. 
FOR SALE 
#1 Spring Break 2001 -Cancun, Mazatlan, Acapulco, Jamaica, Florida & S.Padre Reliable TWA flights. Best Prices_ Earn $$$ or FREE trips-call tor details! 
1.800.SURFS UP WWW studentex• oress_cpm 
Spring Break 2001 Book group of 15 and GO FREE! Book before Nov. 3 tor FREE Mealsl Visit us at sunsplashtours.com or call for free info@ 1·800-426-7710 PHONE CARDS $201558 MIN CALL 284-5145 or 258-4805 
'95 Honda Civic EX, red, moonroof, 5 spd. 52k mi, $8950, call 1-6953 
1993 Ford Explorer (2 door) Manual 4-wheel drive 66,000 miles call 784-8303 or 219-232-5557 
Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. All new, never used, still in plastic. $235 219-862-2082 
WANT AVON? Call 237-1919 
PERSONAL 
hey 

Quality Copies, Quickly! We're open early, late & weekends THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
Erin, I love you in plaid. I like red socks too. Luigi 
NO PLANS FOR THE HOLIDAYS? NEW YEAR'S? Vacation in Chicago for $22/night. Stay at Hostelling lnt'I -Chicago_ 
Call 312/360-0300. www.hichica­go.erg. 
oh my god 
what am I doing here? 

I'm sorry, my professors, for being such a bad student. 
but this, sadly, is my life oh and wllat a life It is whats going on fellas why can't the Giants beat any good 
teams? 
well, at least they are better that the Steelers hey craig, 
what is your story? where were you today? i can't believe its 3 o'clock i need to go home 
very soon goodnight everyone 

Monday, November 13, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
Soccer 
continued from page 20 
Wolverines were from there on a deci!..ledly different team f"rom the one that had given the Irish fits in tlie first half. Dryer would complete the scoring, as she took the ball at tl1P ·top of tlw box before juk­ing two defenders and ripping a shot past a diving Stewart. 
"She doesn't get thr atten: tion she deserves," said Waldrum of Dryer. "But she is a key to our midlield." 
Dryer's heroics were made necessary by Michigan's first half play. 
After S('nior Mcotis Erikson volleyed an Anne Makinen free kick out o[ the air tu put the Irish in front just 11 min­utes in, it looked as if Notre Dame was home free. Michigan. however. had other plans. 
The Wolverines tightened up on defense and started to look every bit the part of the top seed. 
The Wolverines had numer­ous opportunities before final­ly forging a Lie. 
\ 
When a Michigan player wa.s fouled just outside the Notre Dame goal box, the Wolverines were awarded a free kick. 
Andrea Kayal sent a perfect baJl into the box. just over the heads of a Notre Dame wall, to senior Kacy Beitel whose header beat Irish keeper Liz Wagner to tic the score. 
Wagner kicked the ground angry at herself and her defense while Waldrum felt like kicking himself'. 
"I wasn't happy with the way we played today," Waldrum said. "I ·wouldn't say we did anything well. We just didn't have the focus." 
By virtue of their second half surge, the Irish earned the right to take on the Harvard Crimson in the third round at Alumni Field on Friday night. 
Despite changing the game by returning, Dryer was quick to downplay her performance. 
As she hobbled off the field at the game's conclusion Dryer described her injury as "just a bruise." 
Dryer--'s leg may just be bruised, but her return may have saved the Irish season from being mortally wounded. 

USA VELTffihe Observer 

Senior forward Anne Makinen dribbles the ball away from a Michigan player in Sunday's 3-1 vic­tory over the Wolverines. 
r 

,RETIREMENT fNSU.RAN'~E _ MUTUAL FUNDS 'TRUST SHVlHS ·..TUITION FINANfrNG 
----~ttf----­
Saint Macy's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME • INDIANA 
28TH ANNUAL 

EUROPEAN STUDY TOUR 

Courses offered in Biology, Music, Philosophy, and Psychology. 
For further information contact: 
Professor Thomas Parisi Department orPsychology Saint Mary's CoUege Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Phone (219) 284-4462 / Fax (219) 284-4866 e-mail: tparlsl@saintm.arys.edu .(E-mail is best!)· 

Why is TIAA-CREF the #1 choice nationwide? 
The TIAA-CREF Advantage. 

Year in and year out, employee, Jt education 2nd 

This Weak on WVFI ... 
Monday 11/13/00: 4-5 p.m.: Get to know Tom Monaghan, a web administrator of Notre Dame, with host Joe Shepherd. 


wvfi.nd.edu 


THE TIAA-CREF 
managed fund; 
• 
A solid history of performance and exceptional personal service 

• 
A strong commitment to low expenses 

• 
Plus, a full range of flexible retirement income options 


For decades, TIAA-CREF has helped professors and staff at over 9,000 campuses across the country invest for­and enjoy-successful retirements. 
Choosing your retirement plan provider is simple. Go with the leader: TIAA-CREF. 

Ensuring the future 

1.800.842.2776
for those who shape it.'M 

www.tiaa-cref.org 
For more complete information on our securities products. please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, to request prospectuse,. Read them carefully before you invest. • TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Servim, Inc. distribute:s the CREF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities. • Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements. • TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co , New York, NY, issu~ insurance and annuities. • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. 
• Investment products are not FDIC insured, m3y lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03 
research institl!tions hr1ve turned to TIAA-CREF. And for good reasons: 
• Easy diversification c>mong a range of expertiy 

Friday 11/17/00: 4..5 p.m.: "Long Island Sweet Tea" with hosts Kara·Zuaro and Campbell Irving. Tune into their discussion of literary works and the that music may have influenced such 
wri.tings. 


i--------------------------------------­page ;,(J'rl The Observer . SPORTS 
Monday, November 13, 2000 

Keenan 

continued from page 20 
field and almost scored, and I think that gave them some confidence." 
Early· in the game, it appeared as if Knott"s defense would once again be able to control the game. It sacked quarterback Billy Ellsworth three times and managed to hold the Knights to only one 
Welsh 
continued from page 20 
for good with a touchdown off a Hak pass. Rak converted with Jen Grubb for two points to set the score at 14-6 at the end of the first half. 
At halftime. Welsh and lloward looked evenly matched. 
With both offenses centered around the passing abilities of their respective quarterbacks, the second half looked to be a continuation or the quarter­back duel. Heady to tie the score, Veselik and the Duck offense were focused on a touchdown at the start of the second half. 
"She has so much dedication and drive," Howard head coach Brad Untiedt said. 'Tm lucky to be on the same side­line as she is." 
On the first play of the drive, Vcselik was sacked by Karli Pederson. injuring herself on the play. 
Unfortunately for the Ducks. this setback was a big turning point in the game. Playing with a sprained ankle, Veselik threw an interception to Va1rnssa Lichon on the next pluy. 
Lichon ran the ball bu.ck for the Whirlwind touchdown. The injury coupled with the i11t1Hcep1ion shifted the momentum to Welsh !'or the rest or the ga.me. 
After l!oward was forced to punt. Welsh only needed four plays to score the final touch­down of the game. Rak com­pleted a pass to Grubb for her third touchdown pass of the 
lirst down. 

But after halftime, Keenan changed its offensive plan dramatically. The Knights moved away from the passing game and relied on Kunitzer's legs. Kunitzer, who had 15 carries, was able to take advantage of misdirection running plays. 
Keenan often sent wide receiver Tom Corr in motion behind Kunitzer, and Ellsworth would either hand off to Kunitzer. who charged 
game and a 26-6 lead. 
"(Rak]'s arguably the best quarterback in the league," Parossa said. "She played like the champion that she is." 
Veselik tried to mount an attack to get the Ducks back in the game, but the Welsh defense proved too much for Howard. Veselik was forced to scramble out of the pocket on more than one occasion and suffered a loss in yardage· from a sack by Colleen O'Connor. 
On fourth down goal from the two, Howard had one last opportunity to stay in the game and maybe shift the momentum back to its side. Again, Welsh 's defense held and the Whirlwinds took over on downs. 
The game ended by the mercy rule, making it the Welsh 's sixth game of its undefeated season to end in such a manner. 
After a slow start in the first half, Welsh coach Casey Bouton said, "It was nice to see our offense click and nice to see defense bounce back. [The championship] was a great way to end the season." 
lloward coach, Paul Guzzetta, gave credit to Welsh for its win. 
"When you play a team with so many offensive weapons, it's hard to defend," he said. "They played their best and that's all we could ask for." 
Howard coach Untiedt was also pleased with his team's performance, happy to have made it to the finals. 
"This team has been an amazing team to work with,'' he said. "They have played great throughout the season." 
up the middle, or Corr, who flew around the end. A !'ew times. Keenan even tried a double reverse to keep the Knott defense off balance. 
It worked. 
Twice, Ellsworth, who fin­ished 3-for-9 passing, hooked up with his wide receivers for huge passes against a defense that was trying desperately to contain the run. He found Steve Byrnes early in the sec­ond half for a 40-yard comple­tion. 

Late in the fourth quarter, Ellsworth connected with tight end ,J.J. Frigge on a 33-yard completion that set up run­ning back Brian Kunitzcr's six-yard touchdown run with 
2:30 left in the game. 

"We wanted tu make a point of scoring on their defense." Cantos said. "We established the run, 
mixed in a few passes, and got into a  "We wanted to make a point ofscoring on their  a lot, and WI' were ready for that."  
rhythm. But it couldn't have happened without our  defense. We established the run, mixed in a few passes and got into a  Cantos said. "A lot of tilll!\S, thl'y broke thP  
offensive line. They often  rhythm."  huddle we  and know  
don't get any  what play it  
recognition,  Dave Cantos  was  lrncaus!'  
but they were one of the  Keenan player  of their f'or­mation."  
main reasons  Knott's  
we won. They  vauntnd  

played a great game." clcf'onse, which until Sunday 
Ironically, the Knight's had not been scored on all defensi>, not the Juggs, was season, couldn't make up for .the deciding factor in the the lack of' o!Tensive nxecu­game. tion. The Juggs· del'ens1• lwld 
Keenan sacked Knott quar­the Knights' of'fonso scoreless terback Mario Suarez twice throughout the gamn. and intercepted the ball four Kunitzer scored at the end of' times. including a touchdown the fourth quarter. off an interception with l :46 After Kunitzer's score. kick­left in the game that put the er Andy Groebner missed the Knights out of reach. extra point. leaving K1~enan up 
Knott wasn't able to muster 8-0 and giving Knott had one a sustained offensive drive. It 11nal chance to tie the game. relied heavily on the arm of But on second down, Suarez quarterback Mario Suarez, was intercepted by Cantos, who was 5-for-14 passing. who had two interceptions in 
His longest completion of the the game. Cantos ran the ball day was a 26-yard pass to back 42 yards for a touch­Pawloski. down. sealing the victory for 
But the Juggs never man­the Knights. aged to get inside the Knight's "If you have to lose. you 30-yard line. might as well lose there," 
"We wanted to go out there Pawloski said. "But I hate los­and show that we could get ing, and I know a lot of other the job done offensively," guys do too. This was really Pawlowski said. "We can't hard for us." 
expect our defense to go out every game and not only stop the other team from scoring, but get an intercnption or a fumble to set up the offense." 
"We were trying sonrn new things, and we couldn't get anything gofng," he said. 
"It was frustrating." 

"We knew they wcrn going 
to pass on us 

Welsh players storm the field after Sunday's 26-6 victory over Howard in the women's interhall football championship game. 
---------------------~-----------------­
Monday, November 13, 2000 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
•++ .... +••···································· 
: . Student qovernment's : • ! . qencfer (Rg[ations ! . : . Committee <Presents: : . 
i . atie oestner I . 
!. Tuesday the 14th : • : At 7:30 in Hesburgh Library : 
: Katie Koestner is a date-rape survivor and sexual assault prevention : 
. 
advocate. Koestner's work on behalf of date-rape survivors led to + . the passage of the Campus Sexual Assault Victim's Bill of Rights . . in 1992. She was written several books and made countless . 

. 
campus and television appearances. Koestner will be + . speaking about her experience with date-rape, . . her refusal to remain quiet, and her subsequent . : experiences as an advocate of victim's rights. ! 


!. This Lecture Should Not Be Missed By Anyone! : . 
---------_,. 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 13, 2000 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 

Saint Mary's Ra01sey sets record in 100-yard butterfly 
By JANEL MILLER Sports W rit~r 
The newest member of the Saint Mary's swimming and diving record book doesn't keep the word sat­isfaction in her vocabulary. 
With only four collegiate meets under her belt. freshman Megan Hamsey has proven she's ready for the challenges of being a college athlete. 
But she's not taking these challengos lightly. · 
Finally, after unofficially breaking three individual school records and one relay record earlier this season, Hamsey set an ol'li­cial school record this weekend. 
Ramsey scored both the record and lhe first place at Wabash College Saturday in the 100-yard butterfly with a time of one minute, 2.13 seconds. 
But Hamsey can't say she's that happy with her performance, even though she set the record, the time wasn't a season best. 
"It feels great. It was get­ling annoying [about not getting official timesl but I was confident and knew that I could do it again. But I'm a little disappointed because at my lirst meet I 
swam  faster  than  I'm  
swimming  now,"  said  
Hamsey.  

It's all part of the transi­tion from high school ath­lete to college athlete head coach Gretchen Hildebrandt said, "She's just frustrated because in high school swimmers are used to getting rest between meets, but in col­lege you swim lircd through the season and rest for championships." 
Hildebrandt doesn't see Ramsey having trouble with the transition in the future. 
She's an extremely hard worker. 
She enjoys setting chal­lenges for herself and she doesn't stop until she reaches them,"said Hildebrandt. 
Having graduated from 

Michigan City lligh School 
early at the age of 16. 
Megan went on to Andover 
College Prepatory School in 
Massachusetts where she 
stood out as a student and 
athlete. 

"I had my best year of 
swimming when I was 
there," said Ramsey . 
According to llildebrandt, 
Hamsey is not all individual 
-she's also a team player. 
"She is very supportive of 
the whole team and works 
hard to be the best she can 
be for that team." 
Ilildcbrandl said. 

Ramsey may have domi­
nated Saturday's dual 
against Transylvania, but 
the rest of the Belles squad 
also posted solid perfor­
mances. 

Including Ramsey, the Belles had 13 season best times and came within nine points of a win over the women of Division 11 Transylvania University. 
Senior co-captain Colleen Sullivan attributed the suc­cess to the attitudes that day. 
"I think it helped that we were having fun at the meet. We were all in great spirits and it showed in our swims," said Sullivan. 
Senior co-captain Olivia Smith contributed to the Belles with a second place bout in the 500-and 1000­yard freestyle events. Smith dropped tremendous time in the 500 according to Hildebrandt. 
Smith teamed up with Ramsey to clinch a one­two linish in the 500 yard freestyle. 
Sophomore Lane Herrington and freshman Elizabeth Doro also came out with a one-two finish in the 50 yard freestyle. 
A pair of second and third combos by Sullivan and freshman Maureen Palchak in the 200 vard freestyle and sophomore Lauren Smith and fresh­man Katy Lebiedz in the 100 yard breaststroke wrapped up the meet along with a strong performance on both the one-and three­meter boards for diver Ryann Cox. 

LISA VELTE/The Observer 
A Saint Mary's swimmer races through the water in a backstroke event at the Notre Dame relays earlier this season. The Belles finished nine points behind Transylvania University this weekend. 



¦ ¦ 
Ne\V Meetings for Students and Young Adults.. 

312 Lafortune Student Center Mondays7PM 
SEMESTER AROUND THE, WORLD PROGRAM 
INFORMATION MEETINGS 
7 p.m., Wed., Nov. 15 in Heshurgh Auditorium, ND or 6 p.m. Thurs., Nov. 16 in Carroll Auditorium, Madclcva Hall Saint Mary's College 
Excellent academic program at Sacred Hearl College in Cochin, India, fofusing 011 till• Asian world 16 semester credits applicable towards core or major requirements 
01>portunity for travel and study in nwny countries of the Far E:1s1, Smr!hcast /\si:1, South Asia, Eastern Europe and Western Eurnpc 
--~­SAINT 
MARY'S

SEMl•:snm AIWl/NJ) THE Wouw l'ROGJUM (.219) 28-4-.J-468 01(4473, FAX (2J 9) 284-4866 on 273-5973 
COLLEGE 
Nl)Tnr-. DA"-1F. IN

e-mail: 1i ul l:i pil@saintmarys.cc1 u; http://www.saintm:1rys,cclu 


page 17 The Ob,erver . SPORTS Monday, November 13, 2000 
HOCKEY 
Top-ranked Eagles skate to 5-3 victory over Irish 

By MATT ORENCHUK Sports W ri re,. 
The Notre Dame hockey team played well against Boston College on Friday night. 
BuL playing well wasn't good enough against the No. I team in the country. The fighting Irish played a spirited hockey game, almost coming bark from a 4-1 deficit before finally suc­cumbing to the Eagles 5-3. 
The game was a sellout of 2,749, with the crowd almost evenly split between Irish fans and B,iston College fans. The split crowd gave the game a tense playoff atmosphere at times, with both contingencies being very vocal. 
Boston College had the tirst opportunity to cheer just 1:10 into Lhc game when junior Jeff Giuliano ripped the puck past Irish goaltender Tony Zasowski. The goal was a designed play, with Brett Peterson flipping it out in front of the goal for Giuliano. 
Boston College had a slashing penalty with 17:55 left in the period, and then an interference call just 23 seconds later. This gave the Irish a 5_ on 3 for 1: 3 7 and a chance to jump on the board. Notre Dame didn't con­vert on the power play, but it definitely swung the momentum towards the Irish. 
The next 10 minutes of the period was an open highflying affair, with both teams getting a 
NOEL 
S Y M P 
Monday, November 
Architecture Auditori••• 104 
CAT ROW 
CHRISTENSEN 
lot of scoring opportunities. With 7 :50 left in thf~ first period the Irish linaHy, got on the board with a power play-goal from freshman Rob Globkc. Globke skated up the right side with a burst of speed, made a nice move to fake out Boston College goalie Scott Clemmensen. and put the puck in the net, 
The rest of the first period was played without penalties, and the teams went into the first intermission tied at one apiece. 
The second period began with a couple of Notre Dame penal­ties. Jay Kopischke was called for elbowing 22 seconds into the period. and 2 1/2 minutes later Chad Chipchase took a penalty for holding the stick. The Irish penalty killers held Roston College in check for both penal­ties. All in all, the lrish killed all seven power plays they faced in the game. 
With 12:53 left in the second, freshman Tony Voce slapped a rebound past Irish goalie Tony Zasowski. Exactly l :53 later. Voce put away another rebound that just eluded the out­stretched glove of Zasowski. Voce is a small player, and that worked to his advantage against Notre Dame 
"We [smaller players] have the speed, and so bigger players have to work harder to keep up," Voce said. "On the second goal I split the defensemen, and then made a nice move to beat [Notre Dame's] goalie." 
keUv, vou're fin aUv 2.1 ! kic(( 
up vour hee(t 
and t,ar+v! 

WE.LOVE YOU, 
Jaso,,, AH, Katie, frin, Jess, Heather 
B ,,151.~ 
II ~{',
"' 
O _:s • 
13, from 


The first l'lioel Blank Symposium will feature the award 
winning thesis \\Ork of Aimet' Catrow '00 and Erin Christensen 
'00. Ms ('atnm amJ Christensen will JJl'cscnl th·cir ,rnrk which 
will then he rc,·ie»ed and discussecl by Tom Fisher. Dean of the 
Sd100I ofArchitecture, l"niversity of Minnesota, Holly Mizelle 
. '94, a member of the School of Architecture Advisory Council, 
· :and Associatl' Professor· Paloma Pajares "\\ ho joinl.'d the facult'.\ of the Srhool of Architttturt> this ~ear. 
·1e.a :1<~
, \ w 
.. 

M 
4 to 6pmJ 
Bond 

Hal 
-~-, 
Boston College scored again with 7: 12 left in the second to stretch their lead to 4-1 over the Irish. 
But momentum again swung towards Notre Dame. Boston College senior Brian Gionta was called for hooking with 6:37 left in the second period. Irish coach Poulin called a timeout to get rest his troops for the power 
play. . 
"Even though we were down 4-1, I liked where we were at for that point in the game," Poulin said of his Irish. "I told the guys that we were going to 
--------------------------~ 
I 
Earn $20/hr! 
MCAT MCAT MCAT MCAT 
'' 
Still waiting for that killer test score to bring in s~me cash? 
Here's your chance! Call 1-888-581-8378 or -~
-
email info.chicago@review.com The for a teaching position today! '(!:!inCefOn 
Review 
www.review.com 1.888.581.8378 

score on this power play, we were going to be down 4-2, and we would take it from there." 
Aaron Gill made sure Poulin's words came true when he ham­mered home a rebound in front of the net 49 seconds into the Boston College penalty. This made the score 4-2 going into the second intermission. 
The first 10 minutes of the third period saw both teams trade offpenalties. With 12:22 left in the period Boston College defensemen Bill Cass was called for tripping Dan Carlson. 
Notre Dame pushed hard on 

the ensuing power play, and their efforts were rewarded with a goal just one second after the power play expired. Sophomore Jake Wiegand was able to slam home the puck after some confusion in front of the net. This made the score 4-3 with 10 minutes to go, and the 
· home crowd on its feet for the Irish. A Boston College penalty was called on JD Forrest for hooking with 8:30 left in the game. On the ensuing powerplay, howev­er, the. puck bounced the wrong way. and Boston College found itself with a 2-on-1 breakaway with 18 seconds left on the penalty. Gionta put away the puck past Zasowski for the short-handed goal. . After the short-handed goal, Notre Dame wasn't able to get anything going, and Boston College escaped with the win. Although the Irish loss, the game showcased the improved Irish special teams. The power play produced two goals in the game. and the third Irish goal came just one second after the power play had ended. Even more impressive has been the Notre Dame penalty kill. The Irish held Boston College to 0­for-7 on the power play. Notre Dame has now killed off the last 16 penalties in a row. The lrish now have the next two weeks off before they host Northern Michigan on Thanksgiving weekend. Notre Dame has a lot of games coming up in the CCHA, and Poulin knows that can change the sea­son. "A lot of good things came out of this game [against Boston College]," Poulin said. "We have only played four CCflA games, so there is a lot of hockey left to be played. We just need to rest up and get ready for the next segment of games." 
enormous 
FLEECE 
Sele 

Sminute from 0UTPCIST Campus 

Call 259-1000 for more details 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November I 3, 2000 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
No. 15 Notre Dame closes out preseason 2-0 with 89-71 victory 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Associate Sporrs Writer 
Forwards Byan llumphrny and Troy Murphy formed a two­person team early in Sunday's 89-71 <•xhibition victory ovor tlrn JnttirnaLio11al Stilect All­Stars. scoring 16 of Notre Dame's lirsl 18 points. 
But the Irish discovered it 

takes more than two to win, as 
they couldn't build a command­
ing leitd until other players 
began to hit the mark on 
offense. 
"This was good for us because it didn't come easv," Notre Dame head coach Mike Brey said. "We had Lo do some Lough things to win this basketball game. The other night, it was so showtime." 
The lntt"rnational Select team, made up or former collegiate stars and led by former Irish star Ken Barlow, was a more athletic opponent than Notre Danw's first f'oe. It played three games in four days, beating Loyola (Ill.) and losing to Valparaiso and Notre Dame. 
Murphy and llumphrey dis­played signs early on of repeat­ing Wednesday's highlight film win ovPr the California Midwest All-Stars. 
Murphy began the game with a 3-pointcr. A little bit later, llumphrcy soared for one of his eight lirsl-half rebounds. The pair took turns pulling down boards and nailing free throws and lield goals as the period continued. 
The International Select team's LaSalle Thompson kept the /\II-Stars in it and gave them their first lead at 21-20 with two 3-pointers. 
While Murphy was his usual All-American self with 16 points in the first period, it was llumphrey whose play astound­ed the crowd with his athleti­cism. With eight minutes, 27 seconds to go in the period, Humphrey leapt above the rim to grab a rebound and jammed the ball through the hoop for a dunk. Watching from the bench, Murphy's jaw dropped open in disb(iliel'. 
Murphy scored the next four points for Notre Dame on two free throws and easy bucket 
before Humphrey dropped in 
another rebound slam dunk. 
But Barlow answered ·with 
two jump shots. He was a 
thorny presence in the side of 
the Irish. scoring 19 points and 
pulling down 10 rebounds in his 
first time back on the hardwood 
in the Joyce Center. 

"Ilc's got moves, and he can put the ball in thfl hole," junior guard/small forward David Craves said. 
Irish shooting struggles trans­lated into the tough mental job of staying sharp on defense while the offense was a no-go. ln the first half, Notre Dame's long-distance shooters Matt Carroll and Martin lngelsby went a combined 0-for-'J from the field, with Graves tossing in a 2-for-5 effort. 
"Sometimes, when our shots aren't falling. it hurts us defen­sively," Brey said. "I thought we were frustrated. In the second half, we did a little better defen­sively and helping out." 
Notre Dame had to pick up the slack when Humphrey went out late in the lirst period with a twisted knee. It took awhile to find a replacement. 
"Hyan brings so much to our team. You can't replace his ath­leticism," Graves said. 
Harold Swanagan, Notre Dame's starting center a year ago, hit two shots early in the second half in an attempt to make up for Humphrey's absence. 
Midway through the second stanza, the other reserve center for the Irish -sophomore Ivan Kartelo -and Carroll began to !ind the bottom of the net. They reeled off 12 points between them in a four-minute period. Carroll hit two long jumpers from the right wing, while Kartclo scored his eight in the lane and at the charity stripe. 
"I know that I'm helping the team to win the game," Kartelo said. 'Tm just a back-up guy." 
The scoring stream by Kartelo and Carroll gave the Irish a 66­55 lead. They didn't relinquish that advantage as Graves sunk 12 points in the final 5:40. 
Notebook 

. Humphrey did not play in the second half as a precaution­
2000-0 I Season Notre Dame Film.Television, and Theatre Presents 


by Eric Bogosian, William Finn, John Guare, Tony Kushner, Marsha Norman, Ntozake Shange, Wendy Wasserstein 
DIRECTED BY SIIRI SCOTT 


Some themes and language 1n this play may be offensive to some viewers. 
.:.0NESDAY, NOVEMBER I5 7:30 PM .. JRSDAY, NOVEMBER 16 7:30 PM fR!DAY, NOVEMBER !7 7:30 PM :; t..11JRDAY, NOVEMBER 18 7:30 PM SuNDAY, NOVEMBER 19 2:30 PM 
TICKETS ARE AVAIIJ\BlC AT THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT LA.FORTUNE STUDENT CENTER, 
MASTER.CARD AND VISA ORDERS CALL 631-8128, 


guard LaSalle Thompson. 

ary measure. Ile came down on season in Europe. After that, he his knee hard and an X-rav was would like to get into coaching. taken at halftime, although Brey · If an assistant position should expects llumphrey to be line. ever open at Notre Dame, it 
"He really wanted to !l)ay," would be high on his list. Brey said. "He was trying to sub "It (Notre Dame] means the himself back in·-withou.t the world to me," Barlow said. "It's trainer seeing." my heart and soul. My wife was 
. Barlow, 36, has played for a student here, and hopefully, eight years in Italy, three in someday, my kids will be stu­Greece and three in Israel since dents here." graduating from Notre Dame. The former Notre Dame play­I le is hoping to play one more er predicted good things for the Irish this season. 
"Troy Murphy mixes it up well inside and outside. He's tough to handle," Barlow said. "I think the sky's the limit for him and the Irish this year. They have a deep bench." 
. Four Notre Dame players scored in .double digits ­Murphy with 23, Graves with 19 and Humphrey and Carroll with 
10. Kartelo and Swanagan each added nine. 


PLAYING AT WASHINGTON HALL RESERVED SEATS $9 
SENIOR CITIZENS $8. ALL STUDENTS $6. 
·-. 

Monday, November 13, 2000 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
The Observer . TODAY 
TOM KEELEY 


Fox TROT 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS -35 Aroma 1 Related (to) 36 Genesis 5 Highlander gentleman 9 Sound of a fall 37 "Let this be our 
14 Resort near little secrer Venice 40 "The doctor 
" 

15 Mrs. Dithers of 41 Gangster's gal the comics 
42 Renewable 

16 Out of bed 
energy type 17 Shop that slices 
43 Half a score 

meat 44 Perkins who 18 Route 1, e.g. 
sang "Blue 19 Woody Allen's Suede Shoes"• Hall" 45 Where to20 Where a fox hunt sample a may lead you Chardonnay, say

23 Morning hrs. 
46 Ruler in un24 Tarzan portrayer paiaisAon 47 Caribbean, e.g.

25 Teller's trauma 48 Secured29 Spillane's "_ 57 Insertion mark 
Jury" 31 Pub draught 58 Platform for a guest of honor 
34 "My.Heart Skips 59 Hitchhike 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
---1--+--+--1 ~,,;;+,,,+,,,,-1 
60 Suffix with exploit 61 Capri, for one 62 Bone below the elbow 63 Singer/actress Jennifer 64 "Little" Dickens girl 65 Unexciting r 
DOWN 1 Actor_Ray 2 Ukraine's capital 3 Not busy 4Film 5 Penny-pinch 6 Loses heat 7 Spoken 8 Exclamation 
with a drum roll 9 Newborn's bed 10 Aviation hero of 
'27 11 Annapolis sch. 12 Diamond or 
Sedaka 13 Place for a 
football pad 21 couture 22 Kind of jacket 

r-=i..r.=+:::+:::+:t:-:i 25 Something hard  
to break  
26 Not just fat  
27 Admit, as to a  
club  
28 First light  
29 Tennyson poem  
30 Drill, to a dentist  
i-,;.,+=+."" 31 Confuse  
V  I  S  -+-1--+-=+-­ ..,.+=+:N:-:+:E:-4 32 University in Beaumont, Tex.  
A C A D  L  E V  E  E  F U N T  33 Manicurist's  
LESS  AMIRS  ETAS  board  

BILLAMEND 

WHAT 1S IT? 1)1CKENS? 1F EN&LISH AUSiEN? voNNEC;,UT? MAJ'ORS A.RE A O'ONGI BREED, 
I FoR&ET. \ IT'S ONLY 
.J 
BEcAUSE THEIR 
:: CHILDREN ARE 
tc:tLLING THEM• I 
., 
~v 
2 

14 17 20  2  3  4  10  11  12  13  


48 The Golden 52 Detective's Bears, for short assignment 
49 Cold war 53 Defeat defense grp. decisively 
50 Faucet 
54 Slay annoyance 55 Author Ferber 51 Thor's father 56 Slangy assent 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
34 
a1 
40 43 
s1 
60 
63 

Puzzle by Sarah Keller 
35_about (roughly) 
36 Like most jokes on the Internet: Abbr. 
38 PC messages 39 Vietnamese­American, e.g. 44 Explorer 
Hernando 45 Ermine 46 Christopher of 
·superman" 47 Expertise 
. 
page 19 
TYLER

THINGS COULD B~WORSE 
WHATELY
' 


How ushers decide who works the student section. 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON IBIS DAY: Richard Mulligan, Whoopi Goldberg, Jean Seberg, Joe Manteg• na. Tracy Scoggins 
Happy Birthday: Take the initia­tive and make things happen. If you wait for others to step in and do the work, you will fall short of your goals and expectations this year. You have lots of great ideas and the forti­tude to accomplish anything you set your mind to. Follow your instincts and don't be daunted by criticism. Your numbers: 8, 23, 26, 29, 31, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Group activities will be favorable if you mix business with pleasure. Lis-­ten to the advice given by those in high.positions. You will be aggres­sive and eager to get things done. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your home life will be disrupted because of a financial situation. You must take the time to look over papers before you sign on the dotted line. The cost may be more than you realized. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will change your mind a dozen times today. Your romantic partner will won­der what you're going to do next. Don't spend money unnecessarily.
000 . CANCER (June 21-July 22): Minor health problems will result if you take on too much. Avoid con­frontations with loved ones. Do not begin new projects until you have finished the old ones. 000 LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will want to contribute something worth­
while to an organization you belong to. Don'thesitate to take a position of 
EUGENIA LAST 
leadership. You will get the support you want. 0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Argu· ments concerning money will sur­face if someone you live with has squandered joint funds without per­mission. Hard work will pay off. 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Enter­tainment and social activity will bring you into contact with impor­tant individ$1ls. Don't jump to con­

f
clusions without getting all the facts. Travel will be in your best interests. 00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Extend a helping hand to someone in need of your assistance. Your thoughtfulness will not go unno­ticed. Don't let changes in your home upset you. Go with the flow. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will be in the right mood to fall in love. Commitment will not be as frightening as it has been in the past. Look into doing some traveling with your mate. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your efforts at work will be appreci­ated. Jump at any opportunities that arise. You can make career changes and raise your wages if you are will­ing to make a move. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Participate in those programs you've been talking about. They wH! en­hance your appearance and self­esteem. Clrildren will briilg you great joy if you take part in their accom­plishments. 00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't count on support from those you live with. You must do all your chores if you don't want to face dis­cord followed by isolation. 00 

Birthday Ba.by: You are bright, articulate and speedy. You always come up with solutions to everyone's problems, and you're a compassionate and lov­ing individual who will always try to do what's bestfor others. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, utromate.com.) 
Cl 2000 UniveBal Press Syndicate 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
I Notre Dame, IN 46556 
I 

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year ...D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ______________________ Address ___________________ City _______ State ___Zip_____ 

Irish victory 
Martin lngelsby and the No. 15 men's basketball team rolled to an 89-71 win over 
the International All-Stars. 

PORTS 
page 18 

O
THE page 20 BSERVER 


WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish advance to Sweet 16 of College Cup 
By KEVIN BERCHOU 
Sports W rt tcr 
On a rrigid Sunday at Alumni Field, the Michigan Wolverines nearly put top­seeded Notre Dame's season on ice in the second round of the NCAA tournament. 
It took a return from an injury, an impassioned half­time sptH1ch. and all the Irish could muster to hold off a Wolverine team that nearly pulled an upset before Notre Dame could escape with a 3­1 triumph. 
After ,t lackluster first half, which saw th,~ Wolverines take control of the game. the lrnavily-favored Irish stood tied at one with a season's worth of' hopes hanging in the balance. 
At thP break it was coach Handy Waldrum who tried to rPstorn focus pick his team up for Lhe win. 
"I told them if they wanted tu lhrow away 21 games of hard work, then they should just go out and play like lhey did in the fi1·st hair." Wald rum said. "It wasn't anything tactical we talked about. We just needed to refocus." 
Sophomore Ashley Dryer listened intently to her coach's pleas. and no doubt took them to heart as she shook off a first half leg injury to lead a second half charge. 
With a little more than 20 minutes remaining in Lhc game. it appeared as if Dryer's day was done as she lay near the midfield stripe writhing in pain. But a hob­bled Dryer returned to seize the dav. 
"In the first half we didn't havP the intensity," Dryer said. "We knew we needed 
to step it up in the second half." 
Just nine minutes into the second half. it was Dryer who took it upon herself to make sure the Irish didn't have an upsetting afternoon. Taking a pass from class­mate Aly Lovelace, Dryer sprinted up the right flank before threading a perfect pass to freshman Amanda Guertin who was just joining the play. 
Guertin held the ball just long enough for the Wolverine keeper Carissa Stewart to commit. before sliding a shot into the far left r,orner. 
"She's so patient around the net," said Dryer. "You'd never know she was a fresh­man." 
Their will shattered by the goal that broke the tie. the 
sec SOCCER/page 13 


, LISA VELTE/The Observer Freshman forward Amy Warner dribbles past a Michigan defender in Sunday's second round College Cup game. 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIPS 
... Keenan, Welsh Family take home· interhall championships 
Knights claims third title in four years 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 
Keenan is back on top. 
Arter losing in the first round of last year's playoffs. Keenan knocked o!Tde­fe nd in g champion Knott 15-0 in Sunday's interhall football 11nal to claim its third Litle in four years. 
"It's a great feeling for us to win," said sophomore Dave Cantos. "A lot of the older guys have been around for the other championships. so it was nice for th,\m to go out this way." 
Keenan did everything right Sunday afternoon. They moved the ball effec­tively against Knott's defense and com­pletely shut down Knott's offense, leav­ing Knott frustrated and confused. 
"Keenan played a great game," said Knott wide receiver Brian Pawloski, who had three receptions. "That's all there is to it." 
Keenan scored the first points of' the game with 43 seconds remaining in the first half. Facing fourth-and-28 on its own 22. Knott lined up in punt forma­tion. But the snap was too high for punter Kevin Heffernan to handle and the ball bounced into the end zone where l!effernan fell on top of the ball, giving Keenan a 2-0 lead. 
"That safety was definitely in our minds the rest of the game," said Pawloski. "Keenan came back down the 
.,,.. see KEENAN/page 14 

Whirlwinds cruise past Ducks 26-6 
By SUSIE CARPENTER 
Sporn Writer 
Energy filled the Stadium as top­ranked Welsh Family Hall Whirlwinds defeated the Howard Ducks 26-6 to repeat as women's interhall champions. 
"The final score was not indicative of' the actual game," Welsh head coach Ben Perossa said. "I loward came at us with everything." 
From the first whistle, it was apparent that this was a battle between the two quarterbacks: Katie Bak of Welsh and Jill Veselik of Howard. 
Leading the Whirlwinds, Hak was the lirst to strike. On the fourth play of thr, first drive, Rak completed a pass to Alex Callan who ran it 40 yards for the touch­down. After an unsuccessful attempt for the extra point. the score was 6-0. 
The Ducks quickly answered on their next possession. Fighting back from a sack by Elizabeth Myers. Veselik found receiver Vanessa Nero in the end zone to tie the score at 6-6. 
That touchdown was only the third allowed by Welsh's defonse all season. 
The Whirlwinds' offense retook the lield ready to avenge this attack. Amidst the pressure of several Ducks linemen. Rak remained poised in the pocket thanks to great pass protection from her offensive line. 
Vanessa Lichonput the Whirlwinds up 
see WELSH/page 14 

• vs. Finnish Select vs. Northern Michigan at Rutgers
~~ 
~­

Tuesday, 7 p.m. Friday, 7:05 p.m. Saturday, 3:30 p.m. 
• SPORTS .~ 
ATA -~ 
Women's College Cup 
Big East Tournament

chird round 
vs. Sacred Heart 
Semifinals

vs. Harvard 
Sarurday, 8:30 p.m. 
GLANCE 11 @ 
Saturday, 1 p.m./2:30 p.m. 

Friday, 7 p.m 





