
Who's hot, who's not? 
Citizenship for Elian? 

Tuesday
Music critics hand out awards for their 
Lawmakers propose granting citizenship to 

favorite albums and conerts. 
Cuban refugee Elian Gonzalez. 

JANUARY 25, 
Scene . page 14-16 
WorldNation . page 5 

2000 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 69 HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 


Hesburgh discusses diversity at Notre DaIDe 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Nrws Wrirer 
\V!wn Fatlrnr Thnod on\ IIesburgh. arrived on carnplls as a l 7-year-olt.l freshman iu I 9:14. Notn! Dame was a verv different place. · 
The stadium was smaller. the Dome still housml dorm rooms and the library, which now bPars his name, didn't even cxisL But, according to tlrn formm-University presi­dent. tlrn most glaring absence on campus was not a building but a kind of person. 
"Then' wasn't a single black student, a single black teacher or even a blar.k work­man," llesburgh said to rnorP than 150 stu­drmts in the LaForturn! Ballroom last night. "!Notn• Danwl was white !maven. I decided right away that if I could, I would change that someday." 
Sixty-six years later, Hesburgh has changed far more than just Notre Dame. Both the. University and the United States are morn diverse thanks to the his work. 
As Univnrsity president from 1952 to 1987. llesburgh instituted plans to diversify tlrn campus. Some of his programs have n\sulted in nearly $40 million in scholarship monny p(•r year for minorities. 
Money is one of' the most important tools for incrPasing diversity at Notre Dame. Ilesburgh said. 
"If you Iwere] going to get blacks to come to Notre Dame, it was going to take a lot of money because many black families could not alforcl a Notre Dame education," he said. 
As a charter membf'r of the United States Commission on Civil Rights in 1957 a,nd chairman of the commission from 1969 to 1972. llesburgh flxplon•d the discrimination that closed oIT educational, social and politi: ml opportunities from blacks. 

"We rnally established what the United States was like in those days," he said of the commission's work. "We determined what a . black could and could not do." 
The commission investigated six areas that were the worst in regards to discrimi­nation against blacks -voting, housing. educa­tion, employment, administration of justice and public accommodations. 

Of these issues, voting wa!:i the most critical, according to Hesburgh. The commission found that in 13 former Confederate states, laws effec­tively prevented b I acks from vot­ing. 

In Mississippi, the law stated that to vote, a person must be able to read a newspaper. When a black per­son came to regis­ter to vote, he was handed a Chinese newspaper and asked to read it. When he was unable to read it, he was not allowed to regis­ter. 
In addition to exclusion from the political process, 
blacks  were  
excluded  from  
education.  

"In 1964, if you were black, you couldn't go to any school that had a white student in it." Hesburgh said. 
Finallv. the commission found that blacks were n~t even allowed to use the most basic public. services like hotels, restaurants. 


More than his father's son 
Edilor's note: This is lhe first in a series offour presi­dential candidate profiles leading llp to the New 1/ampshirc primary. 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
Associate News Editor 
Georgl\ W. Bush, the formHr managing goneral partnor of the Texas Rangers baseball team and current governor of Texa!:i, sees himself in a league of his own amidst the !fold of' Republican candidates vying for the party's presiden­tial nomination. 
Tho amount of money Bush has raised for his campaign in hope of capturing the 11epllblican party nomination and then the White House has helped in allowing Bush to establish himself as the front­runner among other potential Hepublican nominees such as Senator John McCain (R­Ariz.). Steve Forbes and t\llen Keyes. 
The key to Bush's success seems to be identifying him­se If as a moderate Hepublican, calling himself a "compassinnate conservative." This political ideology has dis­tanced him from candidaLes such as McCain and Forbes who take more conservative stances on economic and social issues. 
Patricia Pava, communica­tions director for the Alexandria, Va.-based American Conservative Union, said Bush is taking the right approach in appealing to con­servative voters. 
"!Bush! spoke to our group 
over the weekend and the consensus among those in altendance about the speech h_e gave was that it had Reagan-esque qualities," she said. "He was eloquent yet at the same time answering questions that were in our minds. He struck a strong chord with conservatives in the crowd." 
Although Bush has been accused by Forbes as not tak­ing a more "conservative" stance on economic and social issues, Fava said B'ush made it clear in his speech that despite his more "compas­sionate" approach, his Republican leanings are not a facade. 
"The perception has been among con!:lervatives that 
see BUSH/page 6 

The commission found that the exclusion 
see HESBURGH/page 4 
MIS 111ajor 
•


receives donation 
By MAUREEN SMITHE Assistant News Editor 
Wheri junior Corey Jenks arrived at Notre Dame his freshman year, he expected to pursue a major in the School of Engineering. But he real­ized he was more interested in computers and business than chemical engineering. 
Jenk's realization led him to the School of Business' Management Information Systems (MIS) major. 
"I know that ND students coming from MIS get good jobs with good pay," Jenks said. "I came to MIS because of the numerous job opportu­nities in the information sys­tems area." 
Many students are following the same path as Jenks. In fact; since 1996 the number of MIS majors has doubled; cur­rently 160 undergrads and nearly 25 graduate students are enrolled, according to management professor Khalil Matta. 
"This is a field in which there has been an incredible surge, and the market compe­tition for MIS faculty has been intense," said Carolyn Woo, dean of COBA. "MIS has come into significant demand because it represents the basic infrastructure which enables e-commerce." 
see MIS/page 4 


http://www.GeorgeWBush.com

BACKGROUND 
*1977: Formed own oil business, Arbusto Corp. 
*1989-1994: Managing general partner of 
Texas Rangers baseball franchise *1994-present: Governor ofTexas 
"I believe it's Important for Americans to hal'e confidence in their leadership. I think It's really important for moms and dads to be able to point to the White House and say, 'that person brought honor and dig11ity to the office."' 

ca 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, January 25, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Where's the 
MOB? 
A wonderful thing happened to Notre Dame bas­ketball. A new coach cam.~ to town. And he won. Big games. Sure, he lost a few too. But suddenly excitement is in tht' air. Notre Dame is again a force to be reckoned with. 
The UConn game is already 
sold out·_ compare that lo last year. when most stu­dents didn't think it was worth their time to go to a game. 
Rasketball is going to make us proud, and winter in South Bend will be a lot less· 


dreary. 

Erin Piroutek
But doesn't Muffet desPrve an Outrageous Bunch, too? If i>veryone was waiting for 

Assistant 
a winning team before 

news editor
becoming enthusins1.ir, aboul basketball -well, we've had one for quite some time. The 

Notn~ Damfi women's basketball team is consis­
tently one of the best teams in the nation. Yet a glance around the sparsely-filled JACC at game time makes one wonder. "Where is lhe student body?~ 
These women play with amazing lalent, heart and toughness. And thry win. A lot. Evrryonn should be proud to support this team. With a 15-2 rer,ord. an 11-game winn"ing streak and 
high hopes for the NCAA. tournament, they are as 
perfect a team as any die-hard fan could want. The team doesn't ask for much. Just show up 
and the Irish won't disappoint. 

But people don't show up. For some inexplicable reason the many crazed Irish fans on campus don't seem to make it to the women's basketball games. But there's still time. The student body has at least five more chances. 
Think about these reasons to be at the JACC on Saturday when the Fighting lrish face Georgetown and for the remaining games on the home schedule: 
1. 
When they reach thP Final Four, you can say that you knew it all along. 

2. 
Niele lvey's recovered from last season's knmi injury -and she's better than ever. 

3. 
It may be the only thing on this campus that's free. 

4. 
How much better do they have to get before you'll go to see th.em? 

5. 
A great r,hance to wear your obnoxiously-col­ored dorm T-shirt. 

6. 
Currently ranked a school record fifth in the AP Poll, the team's undefeated in the Big East­a conference that has four schools ranked in the top 25. 

7. 
They have a 16-game home winning streak already; imagine what they could do playing in front of a packed JACC every game. 

8. 
UConn always sells out Gampel Pavillion for women's basketball games. 

9. 
See freshman sensation Alicia Ratay in action. 

10. 
Who wants to miss the opportunity to paint his or her body blue and gold? 

11. 
Relieve the stress of going back to classes by screaming at the refs. 

12. 
Seniors -How many more times will you get to sing the Alma Mater? 

13. 
RUUUUUUUTH. 


14. 
National Championship, anyone??? 


The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those uf The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Laura Rompf Jenn Zimrski Erin LaRuffa Emmerr M~lloy Helena Rayam 
Graphics 
Lindsay fr.ank 

Mandi Powell 
Sports 

Production 
Molly McVoy 

J.;iurtn Brrrigan 
Viewpoint 

Lab Tech 
Dustin Ferrdl 

Shannon Bennett 
The Observer (USPS ~99 2-4000) is published Mon,fay thro,1gh Frid,,y cxcepr <luring ex.am and va(.;aciou p.:rimh. The Observer is a member of the'.' A..ocia,ed Press. All reproJ11uion ,ighrs >r< rcserveJ. 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
for by St. Louis-based Monsanto Co. 

Protest turns violent at Northwestern 
EVANSTON, Ill. 
As police officers donned riot gear and protesters burned a flag from The World Church of the Creator, white supremacist Matt Hale's visit to Northwestern university turned violent Friday, resulting in three arrests among a crowd of 200 outside the Technological Institute. a university spokesman said. Three men, none of them NU students. were charged with disorderly conduct Friday afternoon after a fight broke, said Al Cubbage, vice president for University relations. Police said they escorted Hale -who showed no emotion as insults and snowballs bombard­ed him -away from Tech for his own safety after the leader of the World Church announced he had the sig­natures of nine NU students on a petition for universi­ty recognition as a religious group. Five of the people who signed the petition were membe·rs of his organi­zation and the other four were not, Hale said. Hale told reporters he might sue NU if administrators do not grant his group religious status once he obtains 15 student signatures, the normal university requirement to form an official religious group. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forecast Accu\Veather11,;forcca~1 for c.luytime condi1ions and high temperatures 
H L 
Tuesday ~ 
~:· .·:. ;:· 
.~. •;• 
22(24i ;::;1:i ::::::i~ 
Wednesday ~ Thursday ~ 23 14 FridayJ ~, 28 '\;\~1:9· 
' 
Saturday ·. ,.-\~ 33 23 
\}·"\.;"'· ... /,,\ ...,J . 

"it may no longer (Je a  "Notre Dame ltas been  "We want to keep the  "This is not a good  
viable program.•·  my whole life, since I  movement alive."  day for ND."  
arrived in 1934."  
Joe Cassidy  Priscilla Wong  Father Malloy  
Director of  Father Hesburgh  Chair of the MLK  on the NCAA's  
Student Activities  on winning the  Celebration Day  decision in the  
on the cancellation of  Congressional Gold  committee  Dunbar  
Sophomore Siblings  Medal  investigation  
Weekend  

Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Environlll:entalist group claims MSU hall fire 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 
A radieal environmentalist group claimed responsibility Friday ror the New Year's Eve blaze that caused more than $400.000 in damages to· Michigan State University's Agriculturn I !all. 
The Earth Liberation Front., which has claimed several arson-related firns in past yf11u·s, faxed claims of' rosponsibility to several media outlets Friday. 
The fax said the group targeted the oflice of Catherine Ives, an associate professor who wo,rks for Michigan State University's Institute of International i\griculture. ELF claimed Ives was conducting research on the genetic engineering of crops. 
lves could not be reached for com­ment Sunday. Ives' office was target­ed ber,ause her research is being paid 

"People are very concerned about playing with the genes ofa different species. We have no idea what the outcome will be." 
Craig Rosebraugh Earth Uberation Front spokesman 
and the U.S. Agency for International Development. organizations that pay for genetic engineering research, ELF spokesman Craig Rosebraugh said. 
"There is a growing movement against Ibiotechnology I," he said. "People arc very concerned about playing with the genes of a different species. We have no idea what tlrn outcome will be." 
Monsanto recently paid for live stu­dents to attend a conference in Africa. MSU spokesman Terry Denbow said Monsanto's contribution to Ives' program was "limited to less than 1 perorn1. of the project's opera­tion." 
Russell Freed, associate dean and interim director of the Tnslitut(\ of International Agriculture, would not commFmt on hLF's claims Sunday. 
Hosebraugh said he received an anonymous call or letter from an ELF member and then alerted tlw media via news releases. He-didn't say wlrnn or how he received the messago. 
The responsibility claim. which sug­gests a terrorist act, forced MSU to contact the FBI Friday to aid in the investigation. Denbow wouldn't com­ment on the investigation, which now includes the FBI. MSU police and the 
U.S. Bureau of' Alcohol. Tobacro and 
Firearms. 
UW dean target of porn investigation 
MAmSON, Wis. 
A University of Wisconsin-Madison assistant dean has been suspcmded and will likely face felony charges after images. allegedly featuring child pornography were found on his university computer. Danny Struebing, an assistant dean in the School of' lluman Ecology, is cur­rently under investigation by University Police for pos­session of child pornography. He was suspended with pay on Dec. 23, just 22 days after starting in his new position. No charges have yet been filed against Struebing, but UW Police Detective Douglas Scheller said he is confident Struebing will be indicted. "I can pretty much guarantee that charges will be filed." said Scheller, the lead investigator in the case. He estimated these charges would be filed "roughly within two weeks." Neither Struebing nor UW Chancellor David Ward would comment on the situation. Struebing did not return repeated phone calls, and Ward would not com­mm1t because the issue was still under investigation. Scheller said the investigation began when he n~ceived an anonymous complaint Dec. 1 from an employee in the history department. 
The AccuWeather"' forecast for noon, Tuesday, Jan. 25. 
FRONTS: 

....,......... .&..A. ~ 
C 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WAHM SrATKJNARY 
PtHllll'I: 
~-:,t,
® (0 0 IT:] . B] . >,,E j-~~
.
High Low Showers Rnln T-stflrms f=lurrle• Snow lee Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
V/JI A~ocmted Pre$! 
Atlanta 41 26 Las Vegas 64 49 Portland 46 36 Baltimore 35 22 Memphis 45 23 Sacramento 58 42 

~-~-~¢.?i~Q q  ~ d  Boston  36  28  Milwaukee  19  4  St Louis  30  12  
Showers  T-storms  Rain  Flurries  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  Chicago  19  4  New York  32  24  Tampa  56  41  
Via _Associated Prass GroptiicsNst  Houston  66  49  Philadelphia  34  22  wash DC  35  24  

I 
L 
Tuesday, January 25, 2000 • The Observer . NEWS 

JOB TURNER/The Observer 

A march to protest the Roe vs. Wade decision in South Bend on Monday drew 100 communtiy members despite the cold temper­atures and wind chill. Several Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students participated in a similar protest held in Washington, O.C. 
South Bend marchers support Right-to-Life 
By MICHAEL DE LA ROSA News Wrirer 
SOUTH BEND 

Below-freezing temperatures and bitter wind chills did not numb the passion of approxi­mately l 00 rommunity members who protested the Roe vs. Wade decision Monday on the corner or Jefferson and Main Streets in downtown South Bend. 
Thn annual demonstration in remembrance or the Supreme Court's Jan. 22. 1973 decision to uphold a woman's right to an abortion drew protesters from local churches, high schools and Right to Life groups. 
A quote from Mother Theresa inlluenced young activist Jewels Lentire's decision to protest. 
"rt is a poverty to decide that a child must die so you can live as you wish," Lentire said. "There are millions of families who want cliildren. I'm adopted myself. If I can make it, then other babies should be given the chance." 
Matt Bocart, freshman class president at St. Joseph High 
School, demonstrated his disap­abortions in the county. There proval of legalized abortion with currently are 11 abortion clinics 
the help of many of his 
classmates. "We're just doing this 
because we don't believe in abortion," Bocart said. "This protest wasn't manda­tory. It's just 

"TM , • d • h. 
vre re JUSt omg t lS 
because we don't believe in abortion." 
Matt Bocart St. Joseph High School's freshman class president 
in Indiana; one is located in South Bend. 
Right to Life and other advocacy groups repre­sented at the protest work to end abor­tions through 

whoever wanted to come." demonstrations, phone trees to In 1996, there were 100,167 inform legislators about pro-life 

Classes begin for Auditing on Monday, January 24 and for Law on Wednesday, January 26, 2000. 
Classes are held in Room 141, DeBartolo Hall from 
6:15-9:45 
Classes this week are no obligation during our Invitational Period, so please come in and sit in on a class! 
P.S. Ask about our college and firms discounts 
Phone: (800) 443-3064 E-mail: sbolling@beckerconviser.com 
Note: Application deadline for IL CPA l st time May 2000 candidates is February 1, 2000 
acts and placement of anti-abor­tion. 
"If we can save even 10 babies' lives, we're doing pretty well," said Phil Mclane, presi­dent of Right to Life in South Bend. 
Alan Bowman, a chaplain at St. Joseph Medical Center who attended Monday's rally, coun­selors young women who have had an abortion. He frequently observes the emotional trauma many women experience after an abortion. 
"I deal with what happens after the fact," Bowman said. "There's usually a tough time with the guilt present; the pain, anguish, hurt. I see this [protest] as a way to prevent all of that." 
page 3 
D.C. holds 
abortion protest 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Thousands of emotional demonstrators took their message that abortion is evil to the steps of the Supreme Court on Monday to mark the 27th anniver­sary of the Roe vs. Wade decision that made the pro­cedure legal. 
"Abortion is killing," Germaine Renzi, a Beltsville, Md., mother of nine, said shortly before the march up Constitution Avenue began. "Everyone wants to talk about the woman's body. What about the rights of the child?" 
"The persunhood of the unborn child is the real issue," added Bill O'Brien of Wolcott, Conn. 
As police in riot gear kept a watchful eye, demonstra­tors rallied near the White House, then trooped up Capitol Hill to the high court's building behind the Capitol. 
Carrying signs that read "The Natural Choice Is Life" and "Face It Abortion Kills," printed around a baby's face, scores of protesters made their way into con­gressional buildings to lobby lawmakers and especially to push for restrictions on a form of abortion opponents call partial-birth abortion. 
The abortion debate has raged continuously since the landmark Jan. 22, 1973, decision. Many of the pro­testers said they have trav­eled to Washington every year since then to vent their anger. 
"By doing something like this, it's stirring people's emotions up," said Paula Quinn, a protester from Gaithersburg, Md. "This is about saving babies' lives." 
Jatrice Martel Gaiter, president of Planned Parenthood of Metropolitan Washington, said she believes in the right to peaceful protest but added: 
-"Reproductive freedom should remain a personal and private decision between a woman and her family, a woman and her doctor, a woman and her faith." 


PICK ONE OR MORE 
Clinic held at Notre Dame Golf Course Register in Advance at RecSports $5.00 Charge 
Wear Layered Clothing and Warm Gloves 
Equipment Rental Available -$4.00 Charge to be paid at the Golf Course on the day of the clinic. 
R~o/.>z&T= 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, January 25, 2000 
ogy and the significance of e­cummerce, we need to step up
MIS 

our teaching and research in the MIS area.
continued from page I "This will require new cur­

Electronic comrnen.:e -or e­commerce -integrates busi­ness systems to allow people to buy and sell products and ser­vices over the Internet. MIS majors study the hardware, software, accounting, finance, operations, marketing and human resource management that allow a markPtplace to exist in cyberspace. 
Junior Benjamin Stiller, an MIS major sincp his sophomore year. recognizes the impor­tance of the field. 
"You're not seeing as rapid a growth in computer science. MIS is trying to make comput­er-oriented managers who also have the technical skills needed for today's business," Stiller said. "MIS is turning computer geeks into business leaders." 
With such increasing growth and interest in the field, the University has turned its focus to improvement and expansion. 
"While the college has been able to bring our MIS faculty from four to six, further addi­tions are necessary to meet the students' needs and interest, as well as to achieve excellence in our offerings," Woo said. "Given the advances in technnl­riculum development, major research initiatives, and increasing the number of sec­tions so as to broaden access to such courses by all Notre Dame students," she continued. "Our hope is that we will be at the leading edge in helping stu­dents envision new opportuni­ties and bring these about in this highly energized environ­ment." 

Now, thanks to a git'i of more than $2 million by University alumnus Joseph Giovanini and his wife Jane, the MIS program will expand to salisfy the con­tinued increase in interested students. 
"In the past few years, we have made strides in hiring new faculty and increasing our MIS offerings," Matta said. "With the generous gift of Mr. and Mrs. Giovanini, we will be able to hire a distinguished fac­
. ulty member in thA field of MIS, one that will take the leader­ship in expanding our offerings in the emerging field of e-com­merce. give us visibility in the academic and professional communities, and one Lhat will lead our research efforts in this important area." 

Hesburgh 
continued from page 1 

of blacks from so much of society was decidedly un-Arnerican. "How can you pursue happiness if you are barred from so many things?" Hesburgh asked. 
The recommendations of the commission and the hard work of President Lyndon .Johnson led to the Universal Civil Rights Act of 1964 that addressed all the issues the commission had stud­ied. 
The results of the law could be seen immediate­ly. Hesburgh explained. On the day the act was passed, two black lawyers that worked for the committee walked into the best hotel in Jackson, 
Matta and Woo recognize the importance of an endowed pro­fessorship. . 
"The University has already established the .Joseph and .Jane Giovanini Chair in MJS, which will be used to attract a renowned MIS professor to join the Notre Dame faculty. The search for such a person is cur­rently under \vay," Matta said. 
The popularity of MIS is evi­dent in other funding resources. Students such as Jenks and Stiller currentlv uti­lize an MIS lab in COBA, made possible by a donation from Anderson Consulting. 
Jenks hopes that the Giovanini's endowed professor­ship will allow previous resources to be directed towards other needs within the major. 
"I say that money will go to good use. We have a limited number of classes and they are _just starling to expand that," he said. 
lu addition, Stiller hopes the donation will raise MIS aware­ness. 
"A lot of people don't know what the major is yet. Whenever I tell someone I am an MIS major, they always ask me to explain it," he said. "We're no longer monkeys on typewriters -we deal with people and business." 

Miss., and reserved two rooms. They then went to the best restaurant and reserved a table before watching "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof' in the best the­ater in town. All of these activities would have been impossible before the law. 
"For the first time in 200 years, two black men had been able to do these things," Hesburgh said. "That was the majesty of the law. Southern states obeyed the act with grace and courtesy because it was the law and they respected the law." 
Despite all the advances made in regards to civil rights on campus and throughout the coun­try, Hesburgh still feels that there is work to be done and that people understand more work is needed. 
"I am happy at least that no one is saying we are doing fine," he said. "The reports I read say we are not doing fine and we need to do better." 
RECRUITING DATES: February 7 & 8, 2000 at Career and Placement Services. Japanese Language skills NOT required. Open to all majors. SIGN UPS NOW OPEN 
gest independent credd card e are cuuenlly seeking 
• UNIX • ASSEMBLER I CUl'NT/SIRV!R 
. 

We otter awide array of workplace amentties ,icluding excelleot salaries and benefns, 401K, prof~ sharing, tuttion reimbursemant, lmess center and acasual dress enviroornant. I unable to attend, please send your scanable resume to: 
Discover Financial Services, Inc. 
Human Resources, IT Recruiter 2500 Lake Cook Road • Riverwoods, IL 60015 Fax: 18471 405-1 388 
Visit our Web Site at: 

www.discoverfinancial.com

ii] 
EOEMIF/ON 
ND Press publishes book on marriage 

Special to the Observer 
"Wing to Wing, Oar to Oar: Reading on Courting and Marrying," edited by Amy Kass and Leon Kass, both faculty members of' the University of' Chicago, was recently published by the University of' Notre Dame Press. 
An anthology or 60 selections from a wide variety of sources, the book is intended to address thfl contemporary culture's occluded understand and dimin­ished expectations of the love that leads to marriage. It includes marriage vows and blessings from Christian, Jewish. Muslim and Hindu traditions as well as reading form various philosophers and writers. 
According "tci the Kasses, "these deeply silvered mirrors bequeathed to us from the past [enable) us to see ourselves the way we truly are -and could be" and are "useful not only for self-understanding but even for conducting his or her own courtship or for better educating our children toward the promise of marriage. 


DO SOM~THIHG 
DIFFERENT 
THIS SUMMER" 

DO AN SSPi 
This summer is your chance to learn and earn ~ 3 credits working with the underserved. -z~ 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS 2000 
• 
8 WEEKS OF SERVICE LEARNING 

• 
$1700 TUITION SCHOLARSHIP 

• 
VALUABLE ALUMNI CONTACTS 

• 
POSSIBILITY OF EARNING $1100 THROUGH AMERICORP 

• 
3 CREDITS THEOLOGY, WITH POSSIBLE CROSS-LISTS 

• 
0vER 200 SITES ACROSS THE U.S . 


**DEADLINE FOR APPLICATIONS**: 
~, />.Ssoc. 
JANUARY 28TH (FRIDAY)
f-,,,~­
..... 0 
-<: ::, 
CENTER FOR Soc!AL CONCERNS
CoMMUNllY Sr.RVIL'E 


ROLFS SPORTS REGEATION CENTER 
DEl'ARTMENT OF A!HlETICS UNIVERSITY OF Nam DAME 
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center Drop-In Recreation Schedule 

In-Line Hockey  Sundays  8:30-10:30  
Floor Hockey  Mondays  8:30-10:30  
Indoor Soccer  Tuesdays  8:30-10:30  
Volleyball  Wednesdays  7:00-10:00  
Lacrosse  Thursdays  8:30-10:30  
Badminton  Fridays  7:00-10:00  
Badminton  Saturdays  9:00-11:00  

Come by Yourself, or Bring a Friend! 
All times are PM. Schedule is in effect only when classes are in session. 


Tuesday, January 25, 2000 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Rights groups seek new examination for Pinochet 
LONDON 
llunrnn rights grnu ps laun<'hed a new IPgal drnl!L'ngl' '.\fonduy aiml~d at countering a find­in).( by British doctors that Gen. Augusto Pinoclwt is unfit to stand trial. B(dgium and Spain also dt'nHrnded a new medical examina­tion of lhf' 84-vrmr-olrl former Chiif=ian dir.ta­tor. Tlw human rights groups met a deadline sHl bv Ilonw Secrntarv Jack Straw !'or submit­ting information to st;pport their opposition to his .lmT. 11 a1mouncnnrnnt that he is inclined to re!Pase l'inodwt on medical grounds. AllllH'sty International and f'ivri othPr groups !i«i<l Uwy also plan lo !ilP a suit Wcd1wsday in lli~h Court \·h1tlln11ging thn .ltln. ;i rr1<,dical (•xamination ,,r PinochPt by four British spe1­rialisls. 
Croats turn out for election 
ZA(ilHIB. Croatia 
In a conl<'st seen as a turning point in Croatia's modern history. voters showed up in largP numbers Monday to select a leader to succP.L•d their lat<' authoritarian president. Tlw thrnc front-runners among the nine pres­idential can<lidatp,s have pledged to make a clean brPak from thP policies of President Franjo Tudjman, "vho died Dec. 10, and lead Croatia into genuine demo,,racy. Stipe Mesic. Drnzcn Budisa and Mate Grank led the field ahl'ad or the elections. pledging to end the country's international isolation and to encourage greater intrgration with the West. A total of 4.2 million voters. including citizens in 48 countries abroad. were eligible to vote. Th<' first results wrrn to be announr.cd earlv Tuesday. By late aftrmrnon. about 55 percen"t of voters inside thP countrv had cast ballots, ,tr.cording to the stRte eler.lc;ral r,ommission. 
Congress returns for session 
WASIIINGTON 
CongrPss is rnturning for a session in which palicnls rights. prPscription drugs for Mrdicarr brneficiarirs. gun control and tax euls will br drbatC'd against a background of e!Pction-y1\,ll' politicking. Both the House Rnd SP1rnw rnnvPrwd todav for the second half of the 10(,th Congrrss. aithough there will be lit­tl1' action until President Clinton delivers his Statr of' thr Union address to a joint session Thursday night. "Everybody seems to be in good spirits and ready to go to work." said Srnate ~lajority Le1ader Trent Lott. H-Miss. But Democrats quickly picked up the politir,al sniping that <·haracterized the first year of the session Pnding last November. "This House will ('.()ffiplew month ont' of the new millenni­um with no action Pithcr on this floor or in rnmmittPP on any of tlw major issues that this rnuntry f'acPs." said lfop. Lloyd Doggett, D­Tnxas. 
lifhiidliMMttD
Dow AMEx: 
905.49 JONES ·0·79 Nasdaq:
-243.54 

4096.08 -139.32 
NYSE 
625.24 
-14.34 

S&P 500: Composite 
Volume:
1401.53

11,008.17 1,115,890,000
-39.&3 
VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY TICKER 'it CHNiGI CHNJGE PRICE COMPAQ COllPOTIR CPQ +5 .,o ' ll.Oa
•t.HOO 

MC! WORLOCOM rn WCOM -1-9-Ei -0.8150 ,&.O .Sl IN'l'EL CORP INTC +0.89 +O.B725 98 .81 MICROSOFT COitP NSP'T -2.41 -2. 5000 101.lS D8:LL COM:PU,-~R DELI, -5,01 -2.1900 f.1.56 t.Uf'"EH'I' '!'X~H I,.. LO +l.'Sf, . 0.8100 5! .55 AMA!.ON.CON tNc ...... +12.90 . 8,05'7'5 70.12 TBCKNICL-ONS COR TCLN . 4.3. 67 H. 3100 4..31 PAGING NE'!'WO!!;K PAGE . ,3.8S-+O. f.175 1.2'5 oR.A:C:LR coat' ORCL -s .21 -S.U75 s,.u 
-----·------­
orld 
•I 
. 


COMPILED PROM TUE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICFS page 5 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Congress bestowed American citizenship on Winston Churchill and Mother Teresa, and award­ed it posthumously to Raoul Wallenberg. the Swedish diplomat who saved tens of thousands of Hungarian Jews in World War II. But the extraordi­nary power has been used rarely -and never for a minor child against a par­ent's wishes. 
On ~onday, Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott and a group of Florida law­makers put in motion a 
THAILAND 
Hospital standoff ends after 22 hours 
process to give citizenship to 6-year-old Cuban refugee Elian Gonzalez, without his father's consent. 
Lott, R-Miss., told the Senate the bill "to grant citi­zenship to this young boy" could come up for debate as soon as Wednesdav. 
Sponsors hoped° to whisk it through Congress quick­ly, largely to remove the case from the jurisdiction of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which has ruled that the boy should be returned to his father in Cuba. Passage would also render moot a federal court appeal of the INS ruling by Elian 's great-uncle, sponsors said. 

"This moves the decision­making out of the hands of the INS and into the hands of the (state) courts," Sen. Connie Mack, R-Fla., the chief Senate sponsor, told a news conference. 
Late Monday, Mack for­mally introduced the mea­sure in the Senate, and Lott invoked a parliamentary procedure designed to bring it before the chamber as early as Wednesday for debate. A vote Wednesday was possible, but both sides said they doubted final action would occur until next week at the ear­liest. 
At the White House, 
launched in the predawn hours. 
The rebels belonging to God's Army, an insurgent group led by 12-year-old twins. took the hostages in an attempt to pressure the Thai government to help their beleaguered move­ment. 
The rebels, who report­edly were aided by dissi­dents from the group that took control of Myanmar's embassy in Bangkok last 
October,  wanted  heli­ 
copters  to  make  their  
escape.  

The rebels had released at least 40 patients spokesman Joe Lockhart declined to say what President Clinton would do if Congress passed the bill -sign it or veto it -but said the White House would consider the matter after Congress acts. The president has indicated he does not believe Congress should get involved. 
"There is a real danger here that this can become a political issue, that this young boy will be a political football," Lockhart said. "And I think the president has made it very clear to everyone that they ought to stay away from politics here and stick to what the facts and the law dictate." 
Monday afternoon. some in exchange for food, and dozens of others escaped. Those freed included a pregnant 18-year-old who went into labor and an 8­year-old boy in a coma after brain surgery. 
The takeover began at dawn when the raiders hijacked a Thai bus near the border with Myanmar and forced the driver to take them 45 miles to Hatchaburi. 
About 10 rebels wearing camouflage gear and masks forced their way into Ratchaburi provincial hospital. 

Associated Press 
RATCHABURI 

Thai security forres stormed a hospital Tuesday where heavily armed insurgents from Myanmar had trapped hundreds of patients. visi­tors and staff in a 22-hour hostage drama. 
Automatic weapons fire crackled and explosions thudded from inside the hospital, possibly from grenades or mines that the hostage-takers had rigged after taking it over Monday morning. 
Reporters in front of the sprawling hospital com­pound throughout the day­long crisis had been steadi­ly moved back by _polir.e. When thP. assault began. journalists could see trucks and jeeps filled with police and soldiers speeding into the walled, six-acre hospi­tal compound. 
Sporadic gunfire and occasional explosions were still ringing out over the compound more than 15 minutes after the opera­tion began. 
There were no initial reports on r:asualties in the attack, which was 





-------........,._.... _______.._.._..--­

pageG The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, January 25, 2000 

Taking a moderate conserva­Bush is also using his moder­tive stance on issues has its ate Republican record as gov­
Bush 

price for Bush. If Bush wins the ernor of Texas, an office he 
continued from page I Republican presidential nomi­has held since 1994, to his nation, some· worry that he advantage. Hush has focused may not be able to distinguish on education and crime during 
Bush may not be a conserva­himself enough from the demo­his time iu office in Texas. tive, but he cleared that up for cratic nominee. particularly if Many of the initiatives Hush members of our group this it is Vice President Al Gore. has signed inlo law focus on weekend," said Fava. Since the country has c-njoyed limited govcirnmc-nt and local 
Patrick Pierce, associate pro­a strong economy under a contrnl. fessor nf politic-al science at presirlent who is a D<':mocrat. In 1995, he signed inlo law a Saint ~1ary's College, said if voters may rww educa­
Bush wins the Republican 

not feel the tion eode party nomination, he may be 
net>d to that decen­
"Ifthings are going well, 

forced to grapple with the elect a tralized 
expect Rush to ran a very

problem of appeasing members Hepublican. public edu­of the extreme right in the said Sean vague. compassionate cation, Republican party. Savage, restoring
conseri,ative campaign. If he
associate control to pacify those cultural conserva­
Bush will have to trv and 

professor of does this ... things are local school tivrs in the party for nC1w," he political going swimmingly" districts said. "But if hP. wins the party's science at and passed nomination, as he makes his S a i n t an initia­
Patrick Pierce 

bid for thr> prcsid1-mtial election Mary's. tive to end 
in November, he will have to "With the associate professor of political social pro­put a gag on those people. current science at Saint Mary's College motion in "It's not as though Bush has 
state of' the schools. always towed the Republican ec:onomv Bush also 
and fon1ig;, abolishi;d
party line, but he has party connections t.hat ho has used to policy, thP plurality of the vot­mandatory rehiase for criminal 
keep the cultural conservatives 

ers in tlu~ middle could decide. offenders and passed the "two in the party from revolting." 
·Let's play il safe and keep strikes and you're out" law for Accused in previous months 
things the way they are and sexual offPnders. The law of being vague on giving a elect Gore,"' said Savage. requirns that after the convic­
AFP Photo 

The economic prosperity tion nf a second violent sex Republican presidential candidate George W. Bush earned a
stance on issues. Bush mav be 

enjoyed under Prnsident offense, offenders receive an victory in the Iowa Caucus yesterday and hopes to win the
able to continue with this approach. Clinton may not be enough to automatic life in prison son­New Hampshire primary on Feb. 1. "If things are going well. convince voters to clP.ct anoth­tt~ncc and no parole. expect Bush to run a very 
er Democrat, said Fava. vague, compassionate 1:onserv­~ America as a whole has had 
ative campaign," said Pierce. so much thrown at it over the "If he docs this, it will be an past seven years that I don't TUESDAY indication that things are going know if Gore could distance 
JAN.25 

swimmingly for him." himself enough from Clinton to Last week. Bush cleared up win the White House," said 7:30p.m.
Got 

questions surrounding his Fava. UTILE stance on abortion. reassuring Pierce said voters may not 
THEATRE

reward potential democratic in the Republican Party that he nominees for the thriving econ­shares their views. 
members of the Christian right 

omy. 'Tm not sure how much of a 
News?
Bush said he would not make a pledge to appoint a vice pres­

benefit the economic prosperity ident or judges who were pro­
will be for Gore or Bradley," life but wanted them first and 
said Pierce. 'Tm not sure that foremost to be qualified for the Bush will have to do much dil'­position. He said that legalizing ferent in the way or running his 
1-5323

abortions should be up to state campaign if he wins the legislatures and should not Republican nomination." have been decided by the fed­­
After winning the H.epublican 
eral government. Bush also race in the Jowa caucus Monday, Bush has a strong
said he would work to encour­age fewer abortions through 

momentum carrying him into encouraging adoptions and 
the New Hampshire primary on abstinence education. 
Feb. 1. Fava said in coming months, 
"He's really in the driver's candidates may be forced to 
seat and it would be surprising become more specific in their 
if he lost New Hampshire," said stance on issues. 
Pierce. "Even if things didn't 
"As the campaigns go on, develop well in New Hampshire candidates have to start defin­and he didn't win by a large ,•.::' . ':· .. ing themselves not by broad­
margin, none of the opponents based specifics, but get down 
on the Republican side can to the nitty gritty in what they mount a viable challenge to believe," said Fava. 
him." 
We l\'.{a.:,.,jfj,C1book 
··. ~­

ATTENTION SENIORS DI.pie of 
STILL INTERESTED IN A 
TEACHING SERVICE PROGRAM? e Internet 
i 
·'··,a. d

Cofue tti the Center foi,Soeial.Conceros , ~o· ..an y.February 7. (2:30..7:30) ~. r1t"'"'' , ~ · 
~ . {ff'_,

February 8 (i0:00~12:30)J 2000 
We realize we doit~~ to waste your time explaining the virtues of
for infomuuion and/ot';interv1ew1?:~.... 
·· 
I.',,.,, 

the Internet. let's j~;, 't VorsityBooks,com we've made the most 
~,," . ,.." «; ,., : ..,. ". 
:1¼~;::·;,;~.:~;;¥~~1,);;_;••\.' 
' i,··,.r

In the new millenriilnn, youwillbe .. •.;,,••· 
of it. Not only can·,;· our textbooks~ but you'll participating in the challenge ofurnan;edocati,pn>>~•: ·· also receive them in just one to
by teaching .in an inner city Catholi~.~ig?s~~pl, 
to know?

living i~ community and experiencing ''?'i that's completely reliable and secure. Who the cultural ric;lme~sofl~{ew.. ~~,: 

SAVE UP TO 40% ON TEXTBOOKS. 
Set up an"interview with•·. " · , , 
Savings off distributor's suggested price. Books delivered in no more than three business days.Sister.Deann<i Sabetta at t,h~ Ce:11ter'.before ~,bll!!ry ~" Sorne restrictions apply. See site for details. 
Come and find outabout · 
"a year to remember and an experience you will treasure/L 
'\/VarsityBooks.com 


-----w-­

Tuesday, January 25, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
ND prof examines media influence on Clinton campaign 
ship 
WO 

We know you wanted a little more time to socialize before you hit the books, but at VarsityBooks.com we're so darn fast you'll hove your textbooks in one to three business days. But at least we're saving you up to 40% and offering you a Web site that's completely reliable and secure. Look at it this way, you've got at least one free night ahead of you. So what ore you waiting for? It certainly isn't us. 
Savings off distributor's suggested price. Books delivered in no more lhan lhree business days. Some restrictions apply. See site for details. 
By ERIN LaRUFFA News Writer 
During presidential candidate Hill Clinton's 1992 visit to Notre Dame, crealivt>. writing profes­sor William O'Hourkn sat in the front row of the Stepan Center tn watrh ttw spfltwh. 
Dnscribing his vimv from that s1ml. O'Hourke opened his book. "Campaign America '9h: The View from the Couc;h," which l\iolrP Damn Prnss recently republished in a paperlmrk edi­tion. 
"What was clear on Clinton's rlustrnd rnd f'acn was that he was enjoying this. The Secret Service men did not look happy. Clinton did," ()'Rourke wrote in the book, originally published in 1997. 
With a combination of politi­cal analysis and cultural histo­ry, the book recounts the 1996 presidential campaign through a series of journal entries O'Hourke kept from January to November of that year. 
O'Rourke's goal was to show "how a campaign is consumed in this country instead of how it is produced." The book is unique because it is based on what O'Rourke learned through the media as a campaign out­sider. 
"The media tries to make the hidden unhidden, and they cer­tainly did a good job of that," O'Rourke said. "The media tries to make the government trans­parent so people can see what their government is really like." 
Relying in part on videotapes, O'Hourke watched both political commercials and news cover­age on television, which has been part of rampaigns since the famous 1960 Kennedy­Nixon debate. O'Rourke also read newspapers and maga­zines and listened to talk radio for the book. 
"You don't have an election without the media ... The only way that somebody is known is by people paying attention," said O'Hourke. Television is especially powerful in reaching what is known as lhe "swing vote," those undecided voters candidates work to win over. 

Despite the importance of the press, it does not havfl the abili­ty Lo completely determine the outcome of an election, said O'Rourke. 
"Culture is larger than the media ... There are forces in society that are bigger than how they get shown," he said. 
At the same time, O'Rourke is also very critical of the media. 
"The book is a book of press criticism," said O'Rourkc, not­ing that television networks often hire political commenta­tors who formerly worked for politicians. 
"The press shouldn't be part of what they're criticizing ... I said a lot of critical things about a lot of people, but that's because they're public figures and someone should criticize them," O'Rourke said. 
At first he intended the book to be for people who do not watch television, but he soon realized that those people were not interested in reading about TV either. 

Interested in Doing Research at a World-class Research Institute? 
Undergraduate Summer Internships 
The Environmental Research Institute, a joint activity of Notre Dame & Argonne National Laboratory (ANL), in collaboration with the Center for Environmental Science & Technology, will award up ro two Summer 2000 internships at ANL in Argonne, IL-with a follow-up campus research appointment in the Fall. Stipend, room 
& board are provided for the 10-week program. 
Student applicants should have research interests in an environmentally­related disciplines (any field ofsutdy) concerned with or Likely to con­tribute to the understanding, assessment, or improvement ofthe envi­ronment. Applicants must be US citizens or permanent residents, enrolled at Notre Dame, have completed their junior Year by May 2000, and be registered to return in the Fall o/2000. 
For more details, contact the Center for Environmental Science & 
Technology: 152A Fitzpatrick hall, 631-8376. Applicants will be 
required to complete an application. 
Deadline is February 23, 2000 
Ticket distribution irks students 
University of Connecticut over buy season tickets. If they
By KATE NAGENGAST 

semester break. missed that opportunity, indi­News Writer 
Subsequently, the rematch, vidual tickets are still available 
scheduled for Feb. 12 at the at general admission pricing for 
Many students who spent fall JACC, sold out two weeks ago, every game except UConn." semester abroad and missed an rendering season tickets Regardless of students' dedi­opportunity this summer to unavailable. cation to basketball, $8 per 
purchase tickets for Irish men's "According to the form sent game is significantly more the basketball were surprised to home over the summer, there $3.75 per game provided by find season ticket packages was an Aug. 1 deadline to pur­season ticket purchases. sold-out. chase Season tickets 
"We sent ticket applications season were sold for $45 
to all the students' homes dur­tickets; 'Tm disappointed that I and provided 
ing the summer," said James howev­won't be able to buy admission to the 
Fraleigh, director of Ticketing er, we 12 home games. 
tickets for the student 

and Marketing. "So they've had s o l d "I left for London several months to buy season beyond price or attend games early in August so I basketball tickets. We've sold t h a t with my friends in the wasn't aware that basketball tickets this way for a dead­a form was sent
student section." 

few years now, and we'll prob­line up home," said 
ably continue with this method u n ti 1 Jacqueline 
for at least another two or t h e Jacqueline Schmidt Schmidt, a junior 
three years." UConn Notre Dame junior in Walsh Hall. 'Tm 
But this year is different. In game disappointed that I 
the midst of an exciting season s o l d won't be able to 
under new head coach Matt out," said Fraleigh. "I guess it buy tickets for the student price 
Doherty, Notre Dame pulled out would ·seem that the students or attend games with my 
a 75-70 road victory against have had over six months to friends in the student section." 
·~~ 

sAvE up To 40% oN TExTBooKs. lV VarsityBooks.com 

OP .___., .----..,......___,...._... 
-

r 
page 8 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, January 25, 2000 
Bush, Gore earn decisive victories in Iowa caucus 
Associated Press 
Gov. George W. Bush of Texas and Vice President Al Gore were the clear victors in the Iowa presidential caucuses tonight as voters -although just a few of them -for the first time allirmed their positions as front­runners for their parties' nomi­nations. 
In the Republican race, Steve Forbes, the wealthy publisher who had pumped millions into the race, finished second, rough­ly tripling the 10 percent he drew here four years ago. 
Alan Keyes, a former State Department official who, like Forbes had courted the religious right, was third, outpacing another religious conservative, Gary Bauer. Senator John ~cCain, who did not campaign here, won a handful of votes, and Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah came in last. 
With 41 percent of the vote, Bush, a two-term governor in his first try fur nalional oflice, surpassed the 37 percent that Bob Dole drew in a six-candi­date field in 1988. Bush had set that figure as his goal. 
Yet in a sign of the potency lhat the abortion issue held here, his results did not match the total votes of Forbes, Keyes and Bauer, who all criticized Bush as being soft on the question. 
In the Democratic race, Gore outpolled former 

Democratic caucuses
Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey 63 percent to 

in Iowa
35 percent. The outcome 

Here are the latest, unofficial
was a setback for 

returns of the Democratic caucuses, 
Bradley. who had cam­paigned aggressively in 

party meetings at the precinct level 
at which average citizens express
the state. 

their candidate preference. 
The victors hope their 
triumphs will embolden 

@ States holding their Democratic 
their campaigns in the 

primaries or caucuses 
nation's first primary on Tuesday in New 

(;1/ States that already have held 
their Democratic primaries or 
caucuses 
Hampshire. 
But Bush and Gore face different political land­

% of precinctsi of returns
scapes there -as well as 

STATE reporting BRADLEY
polls showing that they are neck and neck with 

IOWA 98 35 McCain and Bradley. 
In fact. some New Source.· Compiled from AP wire reports AP 
Hampshire voters pride themselves on not following the lead of Iowa. 
Moreover, Bush and Gore are no doubt aware that while this state has been at the epicenter of American politics, the results have been far from a reliable indicator of who will end up at the White House, or even win their parties' nomination. 
The state is hardly representa­tive of the nation -it is over­whelmingly white -and those who participated tonight tended to be more conservative or liber­al. 
Although the showings of Forbes, who drew 30 percent, and Keyes, who captured 14 percent, underscored the poten­cy of religious conservative vot­ers in these caucuses, Bush drew a substantial proportion of their support as well, according to survP-ys of voters entering the caucuses. Mr. Bauer tallied 9 percent; McCain, 5 percent; and 
FREE POOL 
TONIGHT! 
10PM· 12AM ND EXPRESS 
Gil HEADY f68 TH£ TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS! 

Hatch, 1 pf\rcent. For more than a year, Bush has tow-
Republican caucuses in. Iowa 
ered over the 
Here are the latest. unofficial returns of the 

Republican field 
Republican caucuses, party meetings at the 

because of his record­
precinct level at which average citizens 

breaking fund-raising, 
express their candidate preference. 

impressive poll num­bers and endorse­
iffi!I States holding their Republican 

ments. Now, the first 
primaries or caucuses 

voters declared him 
States that already have held 

the leader as well. 
their Republican primaries or

Bush, smiling as he 
caucuses 

watched the coverage in his hotel suite here, declared vicl.ory barely 
% of precinct'l;sof returnss STATE reporting BAUER

45 minutes after the caucuses had opened. 
IOWA 94 9 

"We've had a record­shattering victory," he said, "and I never Source: Compiled from AP wire reports 
dreamt I'd be able to get such a high vote An ebullient Gore, at a rallytotal." 
late tonight, declared, "ThankLater, at a rally in Des Moines, you for the biggest victory of the Bush said: "Tonight marks the 

contested caucuses here in

first election of the new milleni­Iowa. Wow! Thank you.'' 
um. The beginning of the 
It was a far cry from the 1988 process by which Arner.ica will 

presidential campaign when

choose the president to lead us Gore skipped Iowa, deriding theinto the 21st gentury." 
caucus system as "madness"

Gore's victory marked a come­and calling it "the small state ofback of sorts. For months he lowa."
had been worried about 
Gore conceded that he facedBradley's surging campaign. 

far different competition in :-,Jew

Tho Bradley operation had Hampshire. "I don't think 
spent more than $2 million. But there's any such thing as the so­Gore benefited from the support called 'bounce,"' he said of theof labor and much of the state's prospect that his victory hereDemocratic establishment. 
the department of film, television, and theatre 
pre.sent• 


notre 
dame 
f 


festival 2000 


advanced tickets on sale at Lafortune 
(...rhile k.hey1 las-D 

friday • saturday • monday 
january 28 • 29 • 31 7:30 & 9:45pm 
snite museum of art $3.00 admission 

• 
Results as of 11:40p.m. EST 
% of return'ii of returns GORE UNCOMMITTEO 
63 2 

Results as of 
11:20 p.m. EST 

of returni,i; of returnss of returnEi< of return9li of retur'l;Sof retur BUSH FORBES HATCH KEYES McCAIN UNCOMMITTEO 
41 30 14 5 0 

would give him a lift in New Hampshire. "That race must be won on his own terms." 
Conceding his loss, Bradley also said he was gearing for a hard-fought contest in New Hampshire. "Let mn congratu­late the vice president on his strong showing tonight," Bradley said. "He's an opponent who is tough and I know l'1I be seeing a lot of him in the coming weeks." 
~ Appalachia Seminar 
SOC I A. L 
CONCERNS 

THE SEMINAR 
• 
Service-learning through various sites in Appalachia. March 11-18, 2000 

• 
One credit Theology course 

• 
Involves orientation retreat & follow-up classes 

• 
Past participants in Appalachia Seminar are encouraged to appply as Site Coordinators 

• 
Presents opportunity to work, laugh, & learn with others 


Toe Appalachia Seminar during Fall and Spring break presents a unique service­learning opportunity. Students travel to a variety of sites in Appalachia which focus on issues concerning rural health care, the environment, women, children, and housing construction. Through hands on work and person-to-person contacts. students experience the cultural richness of the area and begin to understand and analyze the social forces that influence the Appalachian people. 
APPLICATIONS 
Available at the Center for Social Concerns Due date: Thursday, January 27, 12:00 PM $40 deposit with application 
(non-refundable if accepted) 
INFORMATION 
Available at the Social Concerns Festival 
Tuesday, January 25, 7-9 PM at the Center for Social Concerns 
FURTHER INFORMATION 
Rose Domingo, Student Task Force Co-Chairperson, 634-3960 Rachel Tomas Morgan, Seminar Director, 631-5293 
Does the New Millennium have you wondering what's next? 
, , ,I> 

FIND THE ANSWERS ---,I: AT THE SOCIAL CONCERNS FESTIVAL!! 
\Vhere: The Center For Social Concerns When: Tuesday, January 25, 2000 Time: 7 pm -9 pm 
Learn about the many ways to get involved in service through seminars, summer opportunities, campus clubs, and community organizations. 
AP 
I-le added: ''Tonight, I have a little bit more humility, but no less confidence that I can do that job." 
Forbes also warned that the fight had only begun. He assert­ed that his second-place finish "demonstrates that ideas mat­ter, principles matter -and if you have a strong conservative message. you can get broad­based support within the con­servative party." 



Tuesday, January 25, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Group questions fairness of students use of old tests 
By HELENA RAYAM News Wricer 
Campus Life Counr.il ques­tioned the fairness of students' use of old tests to study for classes at Monday's meeting. 
"Some students gather these old tests and use them to guess what questions profes­sors will ask, and some stu­dents raid them so other peo­
p Ie  can't  use  them,"  said  
Fisher  Hall  senator  Phil  
Dittmar.  

Senators worried that stu­rhmts have unequal access to old files because many dorms have tests not made available by professors, and thus stu­dents have varyi11g resources. 

"Profossors should know that dorm files exist," said Cualition Council represen ta­tive Michael Fierro. 
The use of dorm files raises concerns as to whether ur not the practir.e violates the Honor Code, which states that stu­dents should have a fair advantage in academic situa­tions. Students in dorms with substantial test files have an advantage, Dittmar said. 
"You're getting to some real-



Whitewater Rafting 
Information Meeting: Tuesday, January 25 
7:30pmRSRC 1-6100 with ?'s R~c=::iu,..,~Z4911 
ly dicey areas," said Faculty a discussion take place Senator Dean Ava Preacher. between the Committee on "The code is meant to be stu­Academic Honesty, Faculty 
dent-driven and elimi­nate many "The code is meant to be punitive 
student-driven and 
measures." 

eliminate many punitive
Preacher 
suggested meansures. that profes­sors clarify 
Ava Preacher
their poli­

Faculty Senator Dean
cies regard­ing the use of old tests 
Senate and Academic Council. 
"It is also important to not imply that the students who are using [the old tests] are cheating," said Murphy. 
"A lot of time, I have profes­

and also that students can sors that will encourage us to reevaluate their treatment of look at old tests," Fierro said, the Honor Code. She has adding that other professors 
noticed a general misunder­do not want students to utilize standing among students as to old tests. what constitutes cheating in "Creating exams that ade­several areas, including using quately test material is diffi­old tests. cult," vice president for 
"We've had kind of an explo­Residence Life Bill Kirk said, sion of Honesty Code cases," explaining why some profes­
17HIE UllllN~TlE SPIU~ IIIUAK said Preacher. sors use similar test questions. 
Student body president Kirk recommended that pro­11UP Micah Murphy suggested that fessors who do not want stu-
JOIN 
THE 
FIRM. 
dents to use old tests make 
that clear to the students. In 
his classes, he chooses not to 
allow students to use old tests 
and tells them that they will 
be in violation of the Honor 
Code if they do. 
"I don't think this is just 
unique to Notre Dame," said 
Knott Hall rector Brother 
Jerome Meyer. 
Although other universities 
allow the use of old tests, 
Notre Dame's Honor Code 
examines the fairness of old 
tests. The CLC wants to 
resolve the issue so that no 
student is at a disadvantage. 
In other CLC news: 
The Alcohol Committee will 
send a formulated question­
naire to rectors to get their 
opinions on alcohol abuse and 
dealing with parties. 
"We're trying to evaluate the 
consistency of policies across 
campus," said off-campus sen­
ator Pat Foy. 
fi 
American Heart ' 
A\sociarion 
Fighting Heart D,,ease and Stroke 
EXERCISE. 
Ltlst Chance for... 

XV J16rld JjJuth n,,y;~rJoo 
.
in 
·, 


ROME, 15-20 AUGUST 2000 
Vear young people, I invite y;· to Rome ... 
Campus Ministry and the Congregation of Holy Cross are sponsorin . toW Youth Day, 2000 for Notre Dame students from August 13 to,21,,2 ilabil1 limited to 24 students. Some financial assistance will be provided for th. selectJ 
...",.ti.,. 
\Jt 

Please note, World Youth Day will be the weekend of FreshmanOrienta egistratJj/m Notre Dame. Students may need to make arrangements to move:i:rUo the d 'd-A.4gys 
X'~ f 
}:!~-:;;t·tX¥1~/t¾' 
. ,'4, . 
'· 

More information and applications are now available at the Campus Ministry Office in Hesburgh Library. Applications are due soon, so pick yours up today! For more on XV World Youth Day, 2000 see the official Vatican webpage at: http://www.vatican.va/ 


page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTJSEMENT Tuesday, January 25, 2000 
Come to Me all you who labor and are heavily burdened, And I will give you rest ... 


I make a holy hour each day in the presence ofJesus in the Blessed Sacrament. All my sisters ofthe Missionaries ofCharity make a daily holy hour as well, because we find that through our daily holy hour our love for Jesus becomes more intimate, our love for each other more under­standing, and our love for the poor more compassion-ate... " 
-Mother Teresa 
Jesus is here with us in the Eucharist to give us answers-answers that will lead us to truth, happiness and peace. In this culture of death, it is easy for people t~ become weary and indifferent to God and His gift of life. People often fall short of their obligation to care for and nurture the spiritual and physical lives of themselves and others. Eucharistic Adoration gives a person the opportunity to nurture his own spiritual life, as well as the spiritual lives of others (through prayer for them.) Prayer also protects the physical lives of those endangered by abortion, euthanasia and other forms of violence. This is because, it is only through the grace which comes from prayer that other's hearts can be changed from see~ing death to loving life. Christ gives us the strength to press on in our battle for life. In order to be Christ-like in our service to preserve life, we must be filled with His life through prayer. To be Christian, we must follow Christ. If He is not the source of all we do, it is worth nothing. We ask you to join us in prayer for life... 
What is Eucharistic Adoration? 
God is present to us in many ways in our woncl, but He is especially present to us in fae Eucharist. As Roman Catholics, we believe that Jesus Christ, who lived 2090 years ago, is truly present in the Eucharist. In Eucharistic AdoratiJ;>p, the Host is placed in a mons:trance, in order for us to be aSle to come and pray. Jesus is always hidde:i in the tabernacle, but in adoration he is exposed so that we can come and kneel before Him, face to face, and speak with our God. When Jesus is exposed like this, He can never be left alone. Thus, people sign up to be responsi­ble to some and pray with Him for a certain amount of time (usually 1 hour) every 
week. 

Why should I go? 
If Jesus were to come to the JACC, would you come and stand in line for ours jus1 to talk to Hirn for a minute? Even if-you weren't Christian, wouldn't you be at least interested in this God so may people talk about? Well, Jesus is truly, physi­cally present here on campus-in the Eucharist. IN ADORATION YOU HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO GO AND SPEAK WITH YOUR GOD FACE TO FACE. You confide in Him, plead with Him, question Him. And if you sit quietly enough, he will inspire you with answers. 
What do I do when I am there? 
When you enter the chapel, you should genuflect as a sign of reverence to Jesus. It is common practice during Adoration to genuflect on two knees, instead of just one (like you do whenever you enter a chapel.) You can stand, sit, or kneel-whatever position you pray best in. And then you pray. There are many ways to pray: you can do spiritual reading; you can pray ~ rosary; you can sit in •silence; you can even just talk to Jesus-like you would to a 'friend. The most important thing is that you love Him and allow Hirn to love and strengthen you. 
What does the Church think? 
"Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament, whether in .a pyx or a monstrance, is a recognition of the wondrous Presence of Christ in the sacrament and stimulates us to unite ourselves to Him in a spiritual communion. It is, accordingly, eminently in harmony with the worship which we owe Him in spirit and truth ... " 
-Post-Conciliar (Vatican II) Document, S.CD.W. 

Sponsored by Notre Dame Right to Life AMDG JMJ 
EUCHARISTIC ADORATION ON CAMPUS: 
Friday: Lady Chapel in the Basilica: 12:00pm (following 11:30 Mass)-5:00pm with a Rosary beginning at 4:15. (Ends with Benediction at 4:45) Monday· beginning at 11 :30pm (following 11 :00pm Mass) through Tuesday at I 0:00pm {Ending with Benediction at 9:45-10:00) In Fisher Hall Chapel. 
Tuesday, January 25, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Clinton targets male-f emal~ pay gap 
Associated Press 
Wt\SIIINGTON 

Prnsidnnt Clinton appealed 
Monday to members ol' 
Congress to "do the right thin" 
by closing the wage gap 
Lrntwmm working women and 
men. He suggester! they could 
start by approving his $27 mil­
lion plan to bolster <lnforce­
mont of' equal pay laws. 
"I made this requost last Vf>ar. and Congn•ss failed to pass it." Clinton said as he looked out al about 10 lawmak­ers who attended the White llousr, ceremony where he announced the proposal. "I hope you will help us .d(l this." 
But the chairmen of two 

!louse committees that deal 
with workforce issues noted 
that money for equal employ­
ment enforcement alrPady is at 
its highest level <W1!r. They 
a1:cusfld Clinton of trying to 
gain a political advantage by 
liming his an11ouncement to 
coincide with the Iowa presi­
dential caucuses. 
"IL is no accident that he has repackaged an initiative that went nowhere last year and unveilf'd it on the day that the election sea.son officially begins," Reps. Bill Goodling:, R­Pa.. and John Roehner, R-Ohio, said in a joint statement. "We are optimistic that women vot­ers will see through this flawed initiative and realize that it would serve primarily to ensure full employment for lawyers." 

The president coupled his appeal with a request for Congress to approve a pay­check fairness act proposed by Sen. Tom Daschle, D-S.O. and Rep. Rosa DeLauro, D-Conn., which would direct federal agencies to collect data about wage disparities and increase pnnalties for violating equal­pay statutes. 
"Pass it. It's a good bill. There is no excuse not to pass it," Clinton said. "We need to clear­ly send the message that wage discrimination against women is just as unacceptable as dis­crimination hased on race or ethnicity." 
Clinton was joincrl by Michelle Akers, a member of the U.S. women's World Cup championship soccer team. Akers and her teammates have been boycotting training because they say they are paid less than the men's soccer team. They want raises from $3,150 per month to $5,000, plus bonuses of $2,000 per game. 

"I want to stand here today for the women who have no voice,·· Akers said. "Women's sports and the view of women has changed a ton. However, we still have a ways to go. The battle is not over. We are still being discriminated against.~ 
Sharon Long, of Baltimore, was testament to that. The lone female purchasing agent for a heating and air conditioning wholesaler, she lost her job in 1994 after shp, suspp,cted she was paid far less than her male counterparts and asked for a raise. She filed a complaint with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and somf' vears later. her case was settled' for $200,000. 
"Justice prnvailed for me. but I know there are many more women out there going through the same experience t· sur­vived," Long said. 
Women earn an average of 75 cents for every $1 men are paid, a disparity Clinton has noted in the past as evidence of social injustice. For women of color, he said, the disparity is even greater: 64 cents for black women and 55 cents for Hispanic women. 
"How would you like to show up for work every day, but only get to take home three out of everv four paychecks?" Clinton asked. "It's not a women's issue. If a woman with a family is being denied equal pay for equal work, then her husband suffers. 

Summer Service Projects 
WHAT ARE YOU DOING THIS SUMMER 
...... 
...... ...... 
...... ...... 
...... 
,,.. 
...... ...... 
...... ...... 
...... 


DorDl fire victiDls IDourned at funeral 
Associated Press 
LONG BRANCH, N.J. 

The teeu-age pallbearers cried all the way up the aisle, their faces contorted, their sobs echoing: off the marble floors and wooden rafters of St. Jerome Roman Catholic Church. 
In the pews, Frank Caltabilota Jr.'s classmates and friends listened intently to the priest's words, dab­bing at their noses with tis­sues and wiping away tears. His mother sat in a front pew, clutching a teddy bear, her husband's arm draped over her shoulders. 
"Why did Frankie have tn die so young?" asked the Hev. Frederick Jackiewicz. "We have no answers for these questions. We do not understand the ways of God. W<' try to the 
best of 
"We say that Seton llall Hall for the 

our lim­
first time
is a family, and it is. We,

ited abil­
since the

ity to like yourselves, have lost 
fire.

under­
a son. Residents

stand, 
of the first

but we 
two floors

cannot." Thomas Peterson 
w e r e

T h e 
Seton Hall University chancellor 
allowed to

heart­breaking tableau was mirrored in two other New Jersey churches as three Seton Hall 
University freshmen who died in a dormitory fire last week were laid to rest. Like Caltabilota, John Giunta, 18, and Aaron Karol, 18, were remembered as upbeat, self­less, promising young men. 
In West Long Branch, more than 800 people filled the church for the service for Caltabiloia, who aspired to a career in medicine. Those who could not get a seat were ushered down­stairs, where a video moni­tor was set up to broadcast the proceedings. 
University chancellor Thomas Peterson was among 450 people who crowded into St. John the.. Evangelist Roman Catholic Church in Dunellen to say 
goodbye to Karol, a soccer enthusiast and criminal jus­tice major who hoped to someday work for the PB!. 
"We say that Seton Hall is a family, and it is," Peterson said. "We. like yourselves, have lost a son." 
Three busloads of Seton Hall students went to Vineland, where about 500 people turned out for Giunta's funeral Mass at St. Francis of Assissi Roman Catholic Church. 
Giunta, an elementary ed ur.ation major who aspired to teaching in the inner city, was remembered as a generous, loyal person with a great future. 
"He seemed like he had a dream ahead of him. He knew what he wanted to do," said John Henderson, 21, of Vineland, a high school classmate. 
At Seton Hall, meanwhile, some freshmen returned to 
their rooms 
at Boland 
move back 
into their rooms, while third, fourth and fifth floor residents were being relocated. university officials said. The university banned media from the South Orange campus until a Tuesday memorial service. 
The fire broke out around 
4:30 a.m. Wednesday on the third f1oor of Boland Hall, a six-story dormitory that housed 640 people. Five remained hospitalized Monday, four in critical con­dition with burns. 
Investigators have been interviewing students and others. Essex County Prosecutor Donald Campolo has said arson, careless smoking or electrical prob­lems have not been ruled out. He would not comment on the status of the investi­gation Monday. 

HAVE YOU HEARD? 

Come to the 
HLIP/AALIP 
Information 
Meeting! 

HLIP: Hispanic Leadership Intern Program AALIP: African American Leadership Intern Program 

The program offers ,l academic credits and $2300 ~ scholarship/or a 10-week service-learning experience. Studerits are immersed into Latino and African American communities through the country where they serve as a leader and smdent ofthe community they are working in. Students have the opportunity to witness the strengths, issues and needs ofthe into Latino andAfrican American communities in our country. 

Where: The Center For Social Concerns 
(Coffee House) 
When: Monday, January 31, 2000 Time: 7:30 pm -8 pm 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 12 BSERVER Tuesday, January 25, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Norre Dnmc, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Norr, Oame. IN 46556 
EmTOR IN CHIFF Michelle Krupa 

MANACING EO!T0R  BUSINESS M~NAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogrw  
AssT. MA.'IAGING EDITOR  
I.aura Petdlc  

NEWS EDITOR, Tin, Logan V1EWPOIN1 EmroR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EmT0R: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michad Vanegas SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin D.ilum 
AnVF.RTISING M,,NAGER: Bryan Lur1. 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Huelar SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: lv!ichael Revers WEIi ADMINIHRAl'OR: Erik Kush to 
CONT~0LLER: Timothy Lane GRAFHK.S EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................ 631-6927 ADVER'IIS!NG....................................6.31-6900/8840 
obscrver@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN Cmn........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME.. .................. 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................ 631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@od.edu VIEWPOINT................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SJ>ORTS ... ....................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@od.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http:lfobseroer.ndedu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music fo,
weather for up-to-the 
minute forecasts 

weekly srudem reviews 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
and rares ofprim ads 
cial campus coverage 

about The Observer
archives to search for 
articles published after 

to meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 

The Observer is rhe independem, daily newspaper pub)ished in prim and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content. including advertisements. is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institU1ion. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor; Assistant Managing Editor and department edicors. Commencaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarilv those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoim space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letm, to the Editor muse be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regflrding Obren,er policies ,hould be dir,-ct­ed to Editor i11 ChiefMichelle Kr11pt1 

''Dome afterglow'' still remains 
A semester ago, I began attending classes at Notre Dame. l even confessed in my very first column on September 13 that I had "the standard, goofy, freshman-like, first-month-at-Notre­Dame-and-just­can't-believe-it grin on my face." I was told that that would wear off eventually and I would come to realize that Notre Dame is not the Utopia I thought it would be. So I thought I would review the events of the last semester and see just how much "Dome after­glow" I still have left, if any. 
My first couple of weeks of classes was a cornucopia of confusion. I didn't know where mv classes were. One of them was in a ~oom in O'Shaughnessy Hall that looked like a storage closet. I didn't know how to purchase football tickets. I was absolutely stunned by the $350 I spent at the Bookstore, only to find that I ALSO needed to purchase "course packets" at not just one loca­tion, but two: the Copy Shop at LaFortune and the Copy Center in O'Shag. I had to wait in a long line and fork over $79 to get a parking permit, only to find that it was for the most out­of-the-way parking area, Cl/Joyce South. I found out that lunches at SDH cost a whopping $7 a pop and dinners were $8.81. I had problems figuring out my e-mail account and web page. I was forced to drop the storage-closet dass because I was late or absent three times in the first week and a half. 
I finally caught some breaks in the second week of September. In that week, I landed auditions on WSND's "Nocturne" program and WVFI. My brief comments about the Michigan game made the Letters To The Editor section of The Observer, and I was offered a position as a biweekly colum­nist. For the next few hours after that, all I was capable of saying was, "Whooooo!" 


However, the euphoria was short­lived: I didn't get on Nocturne and WVFI's broadcast was limited to stu­dents-only by the Administration. Then there was the football season. The worst part was seeing Notre Dame "fans" who supposedly pride them­selves on pride and good nature throw tantrums and call for Bob Davie's head on a sharpened stick because of mis­takes his players made. 
Despite the off-the-field turmoil that reigned this season, I don't regret buy­ing my tickets, attending every game, or watching every play of this year's team. Just being able to shout, "We are NO!" while actually being a part of the ND family was worth every penny and moment. Although the team's 5-7 record will not go down in Notre Dame lore as a great season, the comeback victories over Oklahoma, USC, and Navy will forever mark them as a team with great heart and class. Fellas, on behalf of the few true fans, thanks. And to those of you who reel that your worth as a future Notre Dame alumnus hinges on the record of the football team, not only do you have the wrong mindset for going here, you tlon't even DESEHVE to be here. Go to Florida State, where you know those pesky things like character and doing the right thing will be sacri­ficed for football excellence and, the primary objective above all else,. win­
ning. 

My semester ended with possibly the 
most grueling two weeks of my life. Four papers and four final exams filled a fortnight that saw me go from a mild­mannered Notre Dame student to a snarling, irritable, cranky insomniac. Staying up until almost 7 a.m. to finish an American Literature paper probably didn't help matters any. Mind you, this is in the middle of OARTing for spring courses and all of the hosing that that entails. And, after the semester ended and l received less than $40 back for over $400 worth of books, the sanctions that the NCAA leveled against the aforementioned football program made it open season for sports pundits to slam the University AND its students. We're apparently arrogant snobs. Did you know that'? 
Finally, the new quasi-millennium arrived, and we were all shocked to learn that our computers, cars, cof­feemakers, pacemakers, and cere­brums all still work and were unaffect­ed by Y2K, although 1was hoping that my bill would be whatever twenty-some thousand dollars was worth in 1900. And, in the midst of weather more rep­resentative of Saskatchewan than South Bend, I passed by the Golden Dome and reflected on mv turbulent first semes­ter. And. I'm pieased to report, the Dome shone just as brightly as it did in late August. Or, at least it would have, had the sun been out. 
Mike Marchand is a junior English major who is currently stuck in a snow­drift near his horrible parking spot in the Joyce South lot. /lis column normal­ly appears every other Monday and his e-mail address is Marchand.3@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those uf The Observer. 

SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
HAVE THE RESULTS OF YOUR MYERS­BRIGGS PERSONALITY 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"My father told me all about the birds and the bees. The liar -I went steady with a woodpecker till I was twenty-one." 
Bob Hope Comedian 


VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Tuesday, January 25, 2000 BSERVER page 13 
Should the Confederate Flag still Hang? 
!lank upon rank of men in Confederate uniforms marched through the ·streets of Columbia, South Carolina, with muskets on tlrnir shoulders. Their womenfolk were out in force to support them. The names of Confederate war casualties were 
James Tuck 

read out. It could have been 1861. lnstnad, it all hap­pened two weeks ago U. ofSouthern in this brave new California 
· year or 2000, 
The marchers were part of a rally of 6,000 people protesting anv move to haul down the Confederate battle flag which has flown from the dome of South Carolina's Statehouse for the last 38 vears That "stars and bars'' flag continues to divide people as much as ever. Some see it as a symbol of hate, bondage and oppression; others view it as a vital part of Southern heritage, a defin­ition of a whole culture. 
Last Monday, as our campus was closed to commemorate the Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, the NAACP held a counter-rallv in Columbia. Ti1c attcndancn num­bNs wern astounding ­(ixpm:ting 
10.000 protest­ers. the orga­nizers instead found them­selves addressing a crowd of over 50,000 people. in addition, the NAACP has a tourism boycott in force against the state until the flag 
comes 
down, and South Carolina 
lawmak!-ffS 
will vote on the issue shortly. 
The rhetoric being used is b1\ginning to heat up with a senator by the name of Arthur Ravenel telling the pro­Confederate crowd last weckm1d that South 
I'in in the same position as McCain. I'm a quarter-American, as my grandmother camt> from a proud society family in Baltimore. Like almost every other per­son with Southern links, 1can claim to be related to Robert E. Lee. I own an antique chest at home wilh brass letters spelling L-E-E on it that's been passed down as a family heirloom. 
My forbears fought under that Confederate flag. They were wrong. But they still form part of my personal history and it's hard to disown that. However, while remembering that history, I believe we should get beyond it. Move on and not get trapped like the toy soldiers marching in Columbia. 
Like McCain, it could be said my ances­tors fought honorably. My father gave me a memoir of one of those relatives, Lt. Col. Hichard Snowden Andrews, who commanded the First Maryland Artillery. 
In the book, his wife said she was read­ing the newspaper one day at breakfast in 1862, when she read he'd been fatally wounded at the Battle of Cedar Run. She refused to believe the report, rushed to the battle­field and found her gravely ill husband 
in a nearby farm­house with most of his stomach blown away, 
but still alive. 
She nursed him back to health. 
According to his wife, Snowden 
Andrews 
l'elt there was only one thing for him to do when civil war 
broke out in 1861: 
"His heart was with the South, and the 
principle of States Rights was very dear 
to him." Back in the present day, supporters of the fiag say the ban­ner represents those states' rights against any interfer­

ence by the federal government and it's not about race. That, to me, is 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Shop around before paying bookstore prices 
The week before the Notre DamPJBoston College football weekend, my hus­band and I flew back to Notre Dame to visit our son and daughter-in-law, both graduate students at Notre Dame, attend the football game and more impor­tantly for the Baptism of our grandson. 
During that week, 1made many trips to the new bookstore, checking out all of the items available. 1decided to purchase the highball glasses (item 33B on page 33 of the Fall & Winter 1999/2000 catalog). On Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday the price was $2.95. I didn't have my wallet at that time, so 1 dc~ided to retu~n on Thursday to beat the football crowds. Much to my sur­pnse the old price was covered over with the new price of $4. 95. 
~ asked _at the counter and was told there must have been a price increase. l said prev10usly they had been $2.95, which was the catalog price, and asked if I could purchase them at that price. I was told no ... $4.95 was the new price. I don't know about the other items at the bookstore, but I thought a 69 per­cent increase in this item over a football weekend was absurd! 
I'd recommend that you have friends or family wanting a Notre Dame sou­venir to first shop at the local stores (J.C. Penney has a great selection) before going to the bookstore. If you must buy at the bookstore then do NOT go over a football weekend (or JPW, Graduation or Freshman Orientation). I never did buy the glasses. And by the way, the sticker price is now $2.95. I guess there must have been a price decrease. 
Maryanne Kearns Christenson 
Saine Mary's College '69 Visalia, CA January 20, 2000 

Marriage unnecessary for expressing love 
VY_e who read The Observer are frequently subjected to "carpe diem" pieces urgrng us never to regret that we have not let the people we love know how deeply we care about them. This lifestyle comes into direct conflict with sav­ing sex until marriage. 
This is not to say that physical love is the. only way a relationship can be complete. However, making love IS without question one of the most incredi­ble and precious thing two people can share together. Why should those who love each other wait to fully express their feelings? 
Ou Lac tells us that "a complete expression of love through sex requires a commitment of two persons in marriage." To me, the notion that the love two people have for one another is made official only when they are married and that any sex before that -no matter how in love the participants are -is somehow a less "complete" expression of love is ridiculous. And while I real­ize that this editorial will probably not convince any advocates of abstinence to change their outlook on things, I happen to have my own concept of love for God, and I honestly doubt that on Judgment Day I will be damned for loving someone so much that I wanted to share all of myself with her. 
Ultimately, the decision on whether to wait or not is a personal one. I believe the only person you have to answer to is yourself, and I do agree that too many people rush into things they're not ready for and then regret it later. Regardless, I urge you: Don't wait until it's too late to let another person know how much they mean to you; it will only lead to regret and pain. . To love someone is to give all of yourself to that person, and to look at your partner at the end of it all and feel sublimely happy because you've shared something so incredible that neither of you will ever be the same again. 
Love is a precious gift. Are you ready to accept it? · 
Jeff Eyerman 
Freshman O'Neill Hall January 24, 2000 

Carolina's politicians should 
not bow to pressure from what 
he called the "National 
Association of Hetarded People." 
Wl'll, that comnrnnt is easy to condemn as odious and repulsive. Indeed, the whole Dag issue might look relatively straightforward to most of us who are part of a multi-racial student body un the West Coast. The flag should go. It's a part of history. a !lag raised in an attempt tu perpetuate slavery nf ,\frican-Americans. It's the opposite of a libt)rty flag. 
Tlw controvnrsy was addressfld in the lfrpublicm1 pri'sidenU,d race. Texas Gov. G!rnrg1i W. Bush as always took Urn sale, political course and won cheers during a debaw in South Carolina by saying it was 
• up to local people to decide. Arizona Sen. .John M,;Cain was more candid, saying. "I understand how it could be offensive to some people, but I had ancestors who fought in the Confoderate Army and I thought they fought honorably." 
Strangnly, although a British citizen, 
complete nonsense. The main states' right the South was fighting for was the right to keep black men, women and children as slaves. What could be more racist? 
There is heritage in that flag, but there is also evil, cancerous, ugly oppression. It has no place in this day and age and 
· should be hauled down. Luckily, even in South Carolina that seems likely to hap­pen. The latest opinion poll showed near­ly ()0 percent of citizens want the Confederate flag removed from tho Statehouse. 
Perhaps it's time the politicians looked to the future instead ol' the ugly past. 
James Tuck is a studenr at the University ofSouthern California. This column first appeared in the Daily Trojan at the University ofSouthern California and is reprinted here courtesy of U-Wire. 
The views expressed in t,his column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsen1er. 
Have an opinion? 
Send two sample columns to 024 South Dining Hall by Friday, Jan. 28. 
Questions? Call 1-5303 


C 
page 14 Tuesday, January 25, 2000 

The 1'1'1'1 Scene JVI 
Beck, Phish and the Red Hot Chili Peppers are a, 

Best Albums of 1999 Pavement -Terror Twilight It's cool to be a small band thaL is really big now. Widespread Panic -'TiJ the Medicine Takes This jam band figured out that you don't need 10-minute-long 
songs to impress. The results are electrifying. 
Counting Crows -This DesPrt Life 
Misery loves the Duritz Company. 
Red Hot Chili Peppers -Californication 
This is ho,v the Chili Peppers were meant to br. 
Ren Folds Five -Unauthorized Biography ol' Hcinhold Messner 
The most original release or the year. Ben and the boys tell the story of a guy that dreams too much and has bad luck with women. It's very easy to relate to. 
Best Concert of 1999 (tie) Phish 
Words cannot desribe a Phish show. The listener is dazzled with beautiful ballads, rocking numbers and epic masterpieces. 
Ben Folds Five 
Talented, entertaining. musical. Bands should take a few tips from these guys. 

Best Albums of 1999 

American Football -American Football 
They set the groove all while making things interesting and beauti­ful. The Get Lp Kids -Something to Write Home About Not as good as their debut, Four Minute Mile, but still a melodic 
and energetic effort. Florida Evans Showband & Revue -Made Simple Just because they were a campus band doesn't mean they can't 
release one of the finest pop-rock albums of the year. 
Post Marked Stamps -Various Artists 
There is no better collection of undergrnund music than this. 
The Promise Ring -Very Emergency 
The Promise Ring writes !lawless emo/pop/punk songs about peo­ple, places and events. 
Best Concert of 1999 Braid, Alkaline Trio and Sarge 
This was Braid's final performance in Chicago before breaking up. They were always indescribably amazing live, but they saved the best for last. 



Best Albums of 1999 Rage Against the Machine -The Battle of Los Angeles Front man de la Ror,ha's thunderous rhymes mixed with hard rock 
beats not only creates a powerful sound but a powerful message as 
well. 

Red Hot Chili Peppers -Californication 
For a band to release an album this good, and to arguably be the · best performer at Woodstock this summer, 1999 was definitely their best year yet. -
Fatboy Slim -You've Come A Long \Vay Baby 
Hailing from the U.K., Fatboy Slim is now included in the likes of the Chemical Brothers and Crystal Method, and he deserves to be. New Radicals -Maybe You've Been Brainwashed Too The New Hadir.als are far from a onA-hit wonder. Unfortunately the band has already broken up. 
Dave Matthews And Tim Reynolds -Live at. Luther College 
Classies by the band that are played in a softer and smooth melody with the addition of' the girted Tim Heyn olds. 
Best Concert of 1999 1999 Tibetan Freedom Concert 
Rage Against the Machine, Eddie Vedder, t.he Beasties and Tibetan monks ... can you think of a bAtter way to spend a Sunday? 

Best Albums of 1999 Ben Folds Five -Unauthorized Biography of Reinhold Meisner 
Alternate title: The unauthorized biogra­phy of James Schuyler. 
Beck -Midnight Vultures 
If it doesn't make you laugh. you don't get it. 
The Roots -Things Fall Apart 
Best complete rap album since Tougher than Leather. 
Jimi Hendrix -Live at Fillmore East 
Band of Gypsys = Best band ever. 
G. Love and Special Sauce Philadelponic 
Best of thfl best from Philly blues. 
Best Concert of 1999 Dave Matthews and Tim Reynolds 
Finally, I cans.it down. 



C 
Tuesday, January 25, 2000 page 15 
usic Critic )\wards 
ong the favorites for best album, concert of I 999 

Best Albums of 1999 
Beck -Midnite Vultures 

Beck provides listeners with a barrage of sound only he could mold 
into audio artistry. 
Jimi Hendrix -Live At Woodstock 

Jimi's Woodstock performance, released in its entirety, is a com­
plete historical account of Hendrix's technical mastery at this centu­
ry's most important musical event. 

The Big \Vu -Tracking Buffalo Through the Bathtub 
The Big Wu, with its funky, groove oriented sound. is sure to be an 
up and corning band among the underground jam scene. 
The Grateful Dead -So Many Roads (1965-1995) 
This five-disc, 42-track set consists of unreleased material both 
from both studio and live performances. 
•Phish -Hampton Comes Alive 

Finally. an album that captures the true essence of Phish: an official release of a live performance in its entirety, mastered to provide the highest quality sound "phans" can truly appreciate. 
Best Concert of 1999 
Phish Fall Tour '99 

I've never heard Phish play so tightly and spontaneously. 


Best Albums of 1999 
The Roots -The Roots Com(' Alive 
On this live double CD. first-time listeners get a taste of the Roots and Hoots fans get the electricity of their live shows. 
(;uster -Losl and Gone Forever Any Guster n;cord is a great investnrnn l. Counting Crows -This Desert Life Thc Crows absolutnly shine in this record. 
~any of' the tracks arr' rcminiscont of previ­
ous albums. Ani DiFrnnco -To The Teeth Yet another masterpiece by Ms. Difranco. Macy Gray -On How Life Is That voice is complP.tely indesr,ribable. 
Best Concert of 1999 The Samples 
The Samphis are a guaranteed good time, and if you've nover heard them. do so immediately. 


Best Albums of 1999 Red Hot Chili Peppers -Californication 
The band mellows without losing its funk edge ... Keidis' lyrics have 
a new maturity. Sloan -Between the Bridges Canadian quartet with a gift for. harmony in their well crafted, 
bouncy songs. The best power pop CD you haven't heard. Foo Fighters -There is Nothing Left to Lose Dave Groh! brings hard rock/punk elements to the radio waves. It's 
the most polished Foos effort thus far. Beck -Midnite Vultures A great follow-up to Odelay. Beck is a true innovator. Kid Rock -Devil Without a Cause l have to support my fellow Detroiter! 
Best Concert of 1999 
I didn't see one this year! But if Beck cmes around again, it's always an exhilarating, crowd-involved show. 
Best Album of 1999 

Chemical Brothers -Surrender The Brothers take faithful listeners of electronica back to where it all began -the d;mce floor -with enormous success. 
Vertical Hori,Jons -Live Stages 

Sit back, ml-ax and l!?.t the boys of Vertical Horizons take vou on a journey of their very best music. Easily the best live album of the year. 
Tim McGraw -A Place In The Sun 

Whether singing aboul heartache or love. McGraw creates one of the most enjoyable country albums in memory. · · Beck -Midnite Vultures The "LoS(\r" infuses soul and funk into his sometimes-chaotic blend of alterna-rock. The result is pure joy. 
Fatboy Slim -On The Floor At The Boutique 
This import from the guy who brought you the Rockefeller Skank may be the best live dance mix ever. 
Best Concert of 1999 

Bruce Springsteen and the E-Strcet Band 

A million shows a venue. Sold out everywhere. The Boss. How can you argue with that? 




Tuesday, January 25, 2000 page 16 
From Kid Rock to 'boy' bands to the fires of Woodstock, 
1999 was a memorable end to the millennium 
Best Albums of 1999 Method Man and Redman -Blackout 
Two of the biggest names in hip hop together at 

last. you can't go wrong; best disc this year. Bis -Social Dancing This innovative band from Europe gets bigger 
and better with iLr; newest release. Me First and the Gimme Gimmes -Are a 
Drag 

Showtunes have never seemed sq cool; a great
• 
cover album. 
Hot Bovz -Guerilla Warfare 
New Orleans rappers JuvenilA, Lil Wayne, Turk and ·BG speak words of wisdom that appeal to fans of both Phish and Cyprnss Hill. 
Blink 182 -Enema of the State The immature punk trio do it again. The strong album deserves mention in ~ fairly weak year. 
Best Concert of 1999 Chemical Brothers and Fatboy Slim 
Techno artists arA talented and these guys show it with every live performance. 
Best Albums of 1999 

Wilco -Summer Teeth An eclectic country/rock album from onA of the 
best current bands you've never heard of. Built To Spill -Keep H Like a Secret An excellently intr.rwoven concept album from 
the veteran emo band. This album has some or the coolest lead guitar playing since Weezer. Dwight Yoakam -Last Chance For A Thousand Years 
Thirteen classic songs from the best country 
singer since Elvis Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers -Echo Great new set of a type of music-you don't hear 
too much of anymore-straight-ahead rock 'n' 
roll -and nobody does it better than Petty.. Guns 'N Roses -Live '87-'93 A great two-CD set that reminds us how awe­
some Ax[. Slash and the rest of the crew was. 
Best Concert of 1999 Violent Femmes/The Promise Ring 


I've never been as pumped up at a concert before as when the Femmes played "Add It Up" and "Kiss Off" to end the show. 
Best Albums of 1999 Santana -Supernatural. An exciting resurgence of Carlos Santana, one 


of rock and roll's most spirited guitar virtuosos Dave Matthews and Tim Reynolds -Live at Luther College 
Dave Matthews gets back to the grass roots musical approach that 1made him and his band what they are today. 
Bela Fleck and the Flecktones -Greatest Hits of the 20th Century 
A compilation of some of the band's best musi­
cal performances Umphrey's McGee -Songs for Older Women The band's second release embodies its live 
sound, which has taken it far beyond tho local South Bend bar scene. 
Widespread Panic -'Till the Medicine Takes Powerful and compelling enough to stay in your CD player for weeks. 
Best Concert of 1999 Phish 
The shows at Deer Creek (Noblesville, Ind.) were a fantastic way to end the summer. 

Best Albums of 1999 Where is my Mind, a tribute to the Pixies ­Various Artists 
The band that inspired Nirvana finally gets some respect as today's great artists cover their favorite Pixies songs. 
Mike Ness -Cheating at Solitaire 
The frontman of punk legends Social Distortion shows what he is made of on this bluesy album. Appearances by Bruce Springsteen and Brian Setzer show how respected Ness is in the indus­try. 
Wilco -Summerteeth From the ashes of Uncle Tupelo. Wilco contin­
ues to evolve its sound on its third album. Dr. Dre -Chronic 2001 Gangster rap dead? I dont think so. Dre and 
company are back and better than ever on the 
second Chronic album. Bouncing Souls -Hopeless Romantic This album marks the evolution of a good punk 
band into a great punk band. Check out the suped-up version of the soccer anthem, "Ole!" 
Best Concert of 1999 Warped Tour 


A who's who of punk, ska. heavy metal and rap: Sevendust, Less Than Jake. Pennywise, the Vandals. Ice T and EminAm. The best tour of the year 


Best Albums of 1999 Red Hot Chili Peppers -Californication The Chili Peppers bring back guitarist John 
Frusciante and make the best music of their 
careers. Paul Westerberg -Suicaine Gratification Former leader of The Replacements returns 
with third solo album of mostly acoustic ballads. 
Blink 182 -Enema of the State 
Already the best punk band before this album, the trio from Cali continued to expand upon its catchy punk-pop songs. 
Van Morrison -Back On Top 
Combines the mystical sounds of the early days with his more recent jazz influences. 
The Phantom Menace soundtrack 
John Williams lives up to his work on thr. pnwi­ous trilogy soundtrack with beautiful additions whi!A still rettirning to the old basics. 
Best Concert of 1999 Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band 
The Boss was back and bettm than ever. He did it all. from the raw energy of' tracks like "Born to Bun" and "Hadlands" to the quii>t beauty of songs like "If l Should Fall Behind" and "The Hiver." Bruce can still teach the young bands all they need to know. 

Best Albums of 1999 Ziggy Marley and the Melody Makers -The Spirit of Music 
Young Ziggy shows signs of maturing reggae presence and politics while keeping his own unique style intact. 
Ben Harper -Burn to Shine 
A blend of folk and rock that seems ready to verge on a grand spiritual discovery. The Roots -The Roots Come Alive A fantastic live album featuring the "organic" 
sounds of the hip-hop movement. especially tracks from their Things Fall Apart. 
Beck -Midnite Vultures 
More inventive, original sounds from the young genius as hr. tests the waters of dance funk. Metallica -S & M . The greatest metal band playing with a sympho· 
ny'1 Thr. harmony somehow works, particularly on the ballads. 
Best .Concert of 1999 Bob Dylan/Paul Simon 
Two of the greatest artists of the past 30 years got together on one stage to play somP or the linest musical poetry of any age. 

Tuesday, January 25, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
BOXING 
Tyson finds admirers in British children 
Associated Press 
LONDON 

L,•gs crossrd and on their besl behavior, dozens of chil­dren sat mesmerized. Ouly this was no puppet show: This was Mike Tyson at work i.n tlw boxing ring. 
Thr for­
m e r 
heavy­w Pig ht champion knockfid his sparring partner silly, dropping him tn the canvas as two dozen kids fidgeted for a betler look. 
Tyson. preparing to fight Julius Francis on Saturday in Manchostcr, removed his gloves, Lowcled off and joi1md his young fans. 
For 25 minutes hA signed autographs, posed for family snapshots, got on his knees to shadow box and feigned a knockout blow or two. 
"It doesn't matter what any­body says about me," Tyson said. 'Tm a totally different fmtity to what people think." 
Tyson has been mobbed like a rock star since he arrived a w0ek ago in England despite protests from a women's anti­rap() group. 
Tyson served half his six­year sentpnce for a 1992 rape c.onviction. 
His reception last week in 
racially mixed Brixton was 
compared to visits there by 
Muhammad Ali, Nelson 
Mandela and royalty. 
Youngsters are admitted daily to his workouts. Tyson said playing with young fans after his workouts makes him think about his four children. 
"I haven't seen my kids in a 
while," he said. 
Shelly Finkel, Tyson's boxing adviser, said Tyson was show­ing "his other side." 


"He loves kids," Finkel said. "When I went with him to the hospitals in Phoenix and reporters were there he kicked them out. He didn't want it as publicity." 
Finkd rncountPd how Tyson had paid anonymously for the funeral of a young child killed in a drive-by shooting in 1998 in Phuenix. 
He recalled Monday how an unidentified black boxer once snubbed him for an autograph af'ter he'd sign1:1d for dozens of white kids. 
He said that lert an emotional scar. 
"Now I understand," Tyson said. ''It wasn't because he was an Uncle Tom, maybe. Ile was just tiretl ... but it hurt me so hadly. It messed with me all my whole life. I was distorted bv it. So I never wanted to n1ake anyone feel the way I felt that time." 
Tyson made a point to pose for family photos with 9-year­old Saba-Nur Mirza, who has a rare inherited heart disease and whose growth has been stunted to that of a 5-year-old. 
The youngster, afflicted with Noonan's syndrome, was able to join the training session when her father, Steve Mirza, got a request through to Tyson on Sundav. 
"It's a disease they say only 400 pt,ople in the world have and we're trying to draw atten­tion to it." said her mother, Waqar. "We're not asking for money. We just want to put the spotlight on her and see if we can get help in treatment." 
Finkel said Tyson was accosted a few days ago while eating lunch in his plush Park Lane hotel. 
"Someone comes up and says: "These are my kids. Will you put them through school?"' Finkel said. "It can be brutal." 
NBA 

Jazz win after fight through OT 
Associated l'r~ss 
Karl Malone scored 31 points and John Stockton had 18 points, 1 5 assists and nine rebounds as the Utah Jazz outlasted the Los Angeles Lakers 105-101 in double overtime Monday night. 
Quincy Lewis scored six points in the second overtime and Stockton added four as thA .Jazz sent the Lakers to their fourth loss in the last six games. 
Jeff Hornacek, the NBA's top free Lhrow shooter who had missed the last three games with kneA and bark strains, made two foul shots with 53 seconds left to make it 99-95 and added two more with 7.9 seconds to play to makfl it 101-96. 
Kobe Bryant made a long 3­pointer to cut it tu 103-101 but Lewis sank two more free throws and the Jazz escaped with their fifth win in six games. 
Shaquille O'Neal lead all scorers with 3<-i po.ints and played 55 minutes but scored just four points after regula­tion. Bryant had 26 points on 9-of-24 shooting and Glen Rice added 20 for Los Angeles. 
The teams traded baskets 
through most of the first over­
time before Stockton hit a 3­
pointer with 34 seconds left to 
put Utah up 91-89. 
Bryant missed a shot but 
Rice rebounded and hit a 
turnaround jumper to tie it 
again. 
Malone missed a 3-pointer 
at the buzzer to force another 
overtime. 
Stockton, who has never had 
a triple-double in his 16 sea­
sons, matched his career high 
in rebounds with nine and 
played a season-high 47 min­
utes. 
The Jazz trailed 72-70 when 
Malone began delivering for 
the Jazz. Malone outscored 
the Lakers 9-4 with an array ofjumpers and a free throw to give Utah a 79-76 lead. 

Stockton made it 81-77 with a baseline jumper but in the last minute both Malone and Stockton committed turnovers while Bryant and Rice hit jump shots to tie the game. Hice had a chance to win it at the buzzer but missed a lean­ing 14-foot jumper. 
Trail Blazers 101, Nets 87 
Arvydas Sabonis had 21 points and 13 rebounds and Greg Anthony hit three fourth­quarter 3-pointers to help the Portland Trail Blazers hold off the New Jersey Nets 101-87 Monday night. 
Rasheed Wallace added 17 points for the Blazers, who won their seventh straight at home and pulled within 1 1/2 games of the Los Angeles Lakers in the Pacific Division. 
The Lakers finally lost to the Utah Jazz in double-overtime play. 
StPphon Marbury led the Nets with 21 points, but had only three after halftime. 
The game went back and forth for most of the second half, and two straight 3-point­ers by Lucious Harris put the Nets up for the last time, 74­73, with 10:43 to play. 
Portland then went on a 17­2 run, and the third of Anthony's left-handed 3-point­ers gave the Blazers a 86-76 lead with 7:23 to go. A short jumper by Bonzi Wells and a layup by Detlef Schrempf off a dish from Wells made it 90-76 with 6:11 left. 
Steve Smith added 16 points 
and Scottie Pippen had 10 
assists for the Blazers, who 
were coming off their biggest 
win of the season, a 95-91 win 
at the Lakers on Saturday. 
New Jersey, which is 13-10 
at home, fell to 4-14 on the 
road. 

Keith Van Horn 17 points 
and Kendall Gill had 14 for 
New Jersey. 
Nuggets 110, Grizzlies 98 
Ron Mercer scored 24 points, all in the second half, and tho Denver Nuggets snapped a six-game losing streak with a 110-98 win over the Vancouver Grizzlies on Monday night. 
In a duel of teams with los­ing skids, the Grizzlies droppAd their sixth straight game. 
Mercer also had six assists, four rebounds, three blocked shots and one steal. 
Nick Van Exel added 18 points and nine assists, Raef LaFrentz had 17 points and lO rebounds, and Antonio McDyess finished with 16 points. 
Shareef Abdur-Rahim led Vancouver with 24 points and B rebounds. Mike Bibby con­trih uted 18 points and nine assists. 
Mercer, who went O-for-4 in the first half, scored 20 points in the third quarter alone on 8-of-11 shooting as the Nuggets built a 10-point lead by the end of the period. 
With LaFrentz and McDyess on the bench for most of the period with foul trouble, Mercer took control. 
He scored 10 points in the first 4:52 of the quarter, mak­ing a three-point play for a 66-57 lead and then hitting a 3-pointer for a 69-59 lead with 7:08 left in the period. Mercer's fastbreak layup made it 84s71, and the Nuggets carried an 86-76 lead into the final quarter. 
Vancouver got no closer than eight points after that. 
LaFrentz scored eight points in the final period as Denver built a lead that reached 17 points on George McCloud's 3­pointer with 1:54 remaining. 
Denver lost backup point guard Chris Herren with a strained left knee midway through the second quarter. He was scheduled to have an MRI on Tuesday. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
COACH: Need Jr. High girls coach­responsible,dependable,student or grad to coach ?-8th grade girls bas­ketball B-team.Jan-Mar;for south­side elementary school,located near Scottsdale Mafl on Miami Street. Must be available tor prac­tices Mon-Thurs from 2:20­3:15.Game schedule varies with 9­10 games beginning after school at 4:00,or S+p m Paid position.Call 291-4200 to apply. 
Work for an exciting College 
focused company at your school! 
Looking for motivated individuals 
with strong leadership, entrepre­
neurial and business skills. Tech 
skills not required. Great experi· 
ence, pay and options1 Contact 
into@uconnections.com. 
FOR RENT 
6 BDRM HOME.FURN.AVAIL NOW.$150. PER. 272-6306 
2·6 BDRM HOMES.'00-'01 272· 
6306 
3 bedroom duplex 
appliances.W/D 
1 mile from campus 273-8332 ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE AND CLOSE http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ email:mmmrentals@aol .com 232-2595 
6 BEDRM. '00-'01 $1200/mo. 273-0482 
FOR SALE 

Beautiful brass bed, queen size. with orthopedic mattress and deluxe frame. New, never used, still in plastic. $235 219-662-2062 
'95 CAMARO, RED, T-TOP, LOADED, 45K. MINT COND $11,500 OR BIO 219-291-5471. 
SPRING BREAK 2000 PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA FROM $149 PER PERSON SAND· PIPER BEACON BEACH RESORT THE "FUN PLACE"! 
TIKI BEACH BAR ENTERTAIN· MENT BY BOOGIE INCORPORAT­ED BIKINI CONTESTS MALE HARD BODY CONTESTS 3 POOLS LAZV RIVER WATER SLIDE HUGE BEACHFRONT HOT TUB MINI GOLF GIFT SHOP SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE 1-800-488-8828 WWW. SANDPIPERBEACON.COM 
96 Ford Ranger XL. 54k mi., CD player, man. trans. $7000, obo. Call Tony, 273-5319. 
PERSONAL 
www.thecommentator.com 
Nobody loves me anymore. Nobody sends me classifieds. 
Hello Andrea Louise 
These computers need disk clrives. Particularly when we still use disks. 
Feel the love. 
I'm so sad' No more TEAM 395 to say hi to anymore! No more J.W.! 
I m,ss you. TEAM 395! 
And I miss Fluffy too! 
-sob· 
Buong1orno, Principessal 
Lots of love to t1gger, eeyore. and piglet from pooh. 
[seductively] 
... verisimilitude ... 
-The SinNott 
You and I should get away for 
awhile. 
1just want to be alone with your smile. 
Weebles wobble, but they don't fall down. 
Erin, I promise, everyone loves Hawver. 
At least we oan recognize their faults. Bad hair, however, is not something I like to think about. 
I love you, Paul. 
Downtown ... 
I'm a shrub, alright? 
No, I'm not, I'm a monster. 
Grrr... 
Does that annoy you? 

Oh. it does? 
Fine, grrr .... 
I'd like a piece of chicken please. Raw chicken. And can you put that on the side? Yes, the chicken. On the side. 
I'm not this creative. 
Honestly. 
My little arms ... 
... can't type this much. 
Rex now resides in my room. 
I will take him to the decade dance that I'm not invited to .... yet. 
All about crimpers . 
And hammer pants. 
Or tight, acid-washed jeans. 
Their choice. 
Never fear. Laura's here. Or two of them. If we count Lauren. three. 
"But I was going into Tashi station to pick up some power converters!" 
Christie and I are going to spend allllllll of our money at Meijer because apparently 4-day week­enqs bore us. 
Yes, and this is the smallest violin 
in the world. 
Predictably. Very. 
Ah, late nights. 
NEMATODE! 
.. 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, January 25, 2000 
NBA 

Jordan treats players like peers 
Associated Pres, 
WASillNGTON 
Michael Jordan was the first to arrive. I-le put on a No. 23 Washington Wizards jersey, ragged on R o d Strickland for bteing less than punctual, then took to the court as a dunking. trash-talk­

Jordan
ing, coach­ing part-owner. 
More than anything, MJ was in charge. 
"Not yet! Press out!" Jordan barked when reporters entered at their usual time to watch the final few minutes of practice. It was Jordan's order and Jordan's alone, even with majority owner Abe Pollin. general manager Wes Unseld and ·coach Gar Heard in the gym. 
Reporters were allowed in at the end of practice, .Jordan's first as an active, playing participant since he joined the Wizards last week as part owner and presi­dent of basketball operations. 
"I could go for a beer right now," said Jordan, smiling and looking slightly winded as he made his way up the stairs. 
By all accounts, it was some practice. 
"He's definitely moving the same way," said forward Tracy Murray. who guarded Jordan during some of the drills and the two scrimmages. "Dunking the ball. shooting a jump shot, fade­away. Still got the same game, hasn't gone anywhere. · 
"And as soon as he sets foot in that gym. he starts talking trash. 

so of course the intensity is going to pick up." 
Good thing there are some large dumpsters underneath the MCI Center. The trash talk made a huge impression with every single player. and some of them returned it. 
"Hp's not 25 anymore," rookie Laron Profit said. "I try to remind him of that every time we matched up together. I'm the 22-vear-old now. I've never been known as a shy onr. He talked. I talked. !le talked a little more. And I talked a little more, and he talked some morn. I left him alone after that. 
·'Mike is Mike. He could still come back and lead the league in scoring. He was having fun, but I'm sun' he was evaluating. He was competing, and he was going to see who was going to compete with him." 
That's exactly what Jordan was doing. By being himself, he turned a Wizards practice into something it hasn't been in a while -energetic and fun. 
"Which is what we should expect every day," Jordan said. "Actually, I told them they shouldn't have to wait for me to come out to show the energy that they had today. I just tried to keep them focused, challenge them, sav whatever I have to say. If they can play hard against me, they can play hard against anybody. It was fun." 
Since Jordan became part of the operation, the Wizards (13­
29) have been their usual frus­tratingly inconsistent selves. They lost bad at home to Dallas, beat Indiana at home impres­sively, then were routed by Atlanta on the road. 
Jordan, who says he'll be a commuter-president, watched the Indiana and Atlanta games on TV at home in Chicago. He 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Unbeaten Syracuse takes UConn, 88-74 
Associated Pres; 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. 
Syracuse answered another question with its most impres­sive victory in a so-far perfect season. 
The fourth-ranked Orangemen remained the nation's only unbeaten team with an 88-74 victory over No. 6 Connecticut on Monday night as six players scored in double figures. 
It seemed no matter what Syracuse did this season. there was a question about how good the Orangemen really were. 
Syracuse's first 10 games wcie all at home and the com­petition wasn't too steep. Then the Orangcmen (16-0. 6-0 Big East) went on the road for three straight games and won all three. 
Connecticut (13-4, 2-3) was the first ranked team for Syracuse and the Orangem~n responded with an emphatic win. 
"That's about as well as we've played this season and we're getting better," Syracuse coach Jim 8oeheim said after the Orangemen matched the 1917-18 team for the best start in school history. "We did a good job defensively and a good job on the boards. We played well." 

The game also added to the questions facing Connecticut, which has lost three of its last six and has now doubled its loss total from last season's national championship run. 
"To put it bluntly, they punked us," Connecticut guard Khalid El-Amin said. "They got up on us. got in our_ face. ~e didn't bring our 111tens1ty tonight and that's not charac­teristic of this team. We're 2-3 in the league and can't afford to drop any more games.': 
Last season, Connecticut was the last undefeated team in the country and Syracuse went into the Hartford Civic Center and beat the top-ranked Huskies 59-42. Connecticut was missing starters Voskuhl and Richard Hamilton because of injuries. . 
"One thing I can guarantee 1s that thev haven't played any better Lhls year, at least nol on the tapes we saw," Calhoun said. "The reason we didn't come back tonight was Syracuse. They played tremen­dously and we can play better t.hun what we have. We've just 
been very inconsistent." 
reached the same two conclu­sions everyone else has: -The Wizards have talent, but no chemistry. 
-The Wizards won't have salary cap room for three ~ears, so it's the current roster of play­ers that is going to have to play b<~tter if there's any short-term hope. 
"You've got three solid players, Mitch Richmond, Hod Strickland and Juwan Howard," Jordan said. "The point is getting them to play with the continuity and the chemistry it takes to play basketball. All three of the base guys have played effectively in the years past, and it shouldn't be any reason why they can't do that now." 
Jordan's biggest challenge could be Strickland. Heard, an old-school coach, has clashed with Strickland in an effort to get the point guard to show up on time and become a team leader -to no avail. 
"You try to be an example in that sense," Jordan said. "You're going to work a little harder. _If that means r have to come m and chastise and make people get up and get here imi_-ly ... Hod got here 15 minute belore prac­tice, so I made sure I told him if I have to come by and pick him up tomorrow, he'd better be here a little bit earlier." 
Jordan will be in the owner's box -not on the court, Heard pointed out wistfully -_for Tuesday's home game agamst the New York KI1icks. 
'Tm learning. It's a challenge," .Jordan said. "People have low expectations about what can happen here. It's all fine and good. I've been in worse scenar­ios, but the good thing about it is we have only one way we can go. That's up. We can't go any further down." 
NFL 
Rams revive football in baseball town 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 
Think of St. Louis sports. and the images that come to mind are mostly dressed in red, not royal blue and gold. 
There's Mark McGwire squinting to watch the ball disappear over the wall; Lou Brock, his foot hitting second base and body popping off the ground on a steal; and Stan Musial lashing a shot to the gap. 
Yet after the St. Louis Rams' worst-to-first season. this ba..<;eball town has been trans­formed into a football mad­house. 
And on Monday, a day after the Rams rallied to beat Tampa Hay 11-6 for a spot in the Super Bowl, the euphoria was still going strong. 
Rams blue and gold gear, such as jackets, hats and scarfs, were proudly worn by fans throughout the city, and "Go Hams!;, posters were dis­played in many store win­dows. 
"The baseball Cardinals have had a few bad seasons recently while the Rams have been improving their team," fan John Joyce said as he walked along the riverfront. "I think the Super Bowl would be even bigger than a World Series." 
St. Louis fans would know. The Cardinals have won more pennants than any team except the New York Yankees. Even when they're bad, they typically draw around 3 mil­lion to Busch Stadium. 
J:-,'ootball? Until this season St. Louis' history was sad, wretched, even pathetic. No city had a professional team longer without so much as a playoff win, and until Jan. 16, St. Louis ha-dn't even played host to a postscason game. 
It started in 1960 when Bill Bidwill moved the Chicago Cardinals to St. Louis. The Big Herl. as they were known. pro­duced some good players: llall-of-Famers Jackie Smith (tight end), Larry Wilson (safe­ty) and Dan Dicrdorf (offensive tackle), along with quarter­back Jim Hart. running backs Terry Metcalf. and Ottis Anderson and receiver Roy Green. 
But the teams were rarely good. In 28 seasons. tl~e Cardinals made the playoffs just three times -all first­round losses. all on the road. 
Bad football was better than no football. In 1988, fed up with what he perceived as a lack of civic cooperation on a new stadium, Bidwill took the Cardinals to Phoenix and became a local villain. 
Some things don't change: In 12 seasons there, the Cardinals have made the play­offs once, though they did finally win a playoff game last season against Dallas. 
When the NFL decided to add two expansion teams in 1993, St. Louis seemed a lock . But late in the process the ownership situation for the would-have-been Stallions became muddled. The infight­ing scared away the N~L. which instead gave franchises to Carolina and Jacksonville. 

University Directories Sales & Marketing Internships 


The nation's largest publisher of college and unive.rsity campus telephone directories is o.frcring paid full-time summer sales and nrnskeling internships. Tremendous practical business experience and resume booster. Position begins in May with a week-Jong, expense paid program in Chapel Hill, NC. Interns market official directories locally, selling advertising space lo area businesses in specif1c college markets. Earning:.; average $3000.00 for the 10­wcck program. All majors welcome! 
We will be attending the Notre Dame Job Pait on January 
26 am! conllut;ting interviews on January 27 and would 
love to speak: with you. De sure to stop by our cl:splay 
table. C~ 1-800-'743-5556 ext. 143 or visit our website at 
www.universitydirectories.com for more information. 
~University Directories 
PO Do.'l 8830 • Ch.ope! Hill, NC 27514 ii00-743-.5556 • Fax: 919-96S~8!i 13 WWW. \l n i.,. l;rllitydi re:~ tori e :.. c,, Ill 
L-------------------------------------_. 
page 19

Tuesday, January 25, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


Happy J2K! 


This We~ek in Campus Ministry
·­

Monday. December 6 through Monday, February 7 l03 Hesburgh Library 
Freshman Retreat #27 (Feb.11-12) Sign-Up 
Targeted Dorms: Badin, Keenan, Lewis, O'Neill, Pasquerilla East, St. Edward's, Siegfried, Walsh, and Zahm 
Monday, lanuary 17 through Friday, February 4 103 Hesburgh Library Senior Retreat (February l 1-l 2) Sign-Up 
Tuesday, lanuary 25, 7:00-8:30 pm Siegfried Hall Chapel 
Confirmation­"We Pray What We Believe" 
Wednesday, lanuary 26, 6:00 pm 
LaFortune Ballroom Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Holiday 2000 Colors of the World -A student panel presented by the student government. Food from around the world will be served. 
Wednesday, December 26. l0:00-10:30 pm Walsh Hall Chapel Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
A spirit-filled, student-led power half hour of prayer and music for students of all Christian faith traditions. 
Thursday. January 27 7:00 pm Chapel of the Holy Cross !Keenan-Stanford) Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Holiday 2000 
Who We Are Today: Walk in the light of Christ 
Prayer Service 
Friday-Saturday, lanuary 28-29 Oakwood Inn. Syracuse. Indiana 
Asian American Student Retreat 
Friday-Saturday. lanuary 2 8-29 St. loe Hall 
Coro Primavera Retreat 
Friday-Saturday, lanuary 28-29 Mary's Solitude. SMC Campus 
Graduate Students Retreat 
Friday-Saturday, lanuary 28-29 Moreau Seminary 
ROTC Senior Retreat 
Tuesday, February 1. 7:00 pm Badin Hall Chapel Campus Bible Study 
Dr. Martin luther King Jr. Holiday 2000 
Wednesday, January 26, 6:00 p.m. Lafortune Ballroom 

Colors ofthe World -A Student Panel 
Presented by the Student Government. Food from around the world will be served. 
Thursday, January 27, 7:00 p.m. Chapel of the Holy Cross (Keenan-Stanford) 
Who we are today: Walk in the Light of Christ -Prayer Service 
Speech Contest 

Prize: Scholarship for the Center for Social Concerns Spring 
Break Civil Rights Seminar. 

February 4 Submission ofWritten Speeches 
February 18 Award Presentation at Blak Koffee House 
Sponsored by Campus Ministry, Center for Social Concerns, Office of Multicnlrural Student Affairs, Office ofStudent Affairs, and Student Government. 
Good Stuff to Know 
CLASSIFIED 

NTE 
_ _,.) SENIORS FOR RETREAT; 


NO EXPERIENCE REQUIRED. MUST BE WILLING TO HAVE FUN WITH FELLOW CLASSMATES WHILE SHARING HOPES 
' ' , . 
,..

AND FEARS FOR{E._UTUR]) ~?} 
-I \ 

BENEFITS VARY DEPENDING ON PERSONAL PARTICIPATION. POSITIONS OPEN FOR FEB. 11-1
*APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY AT CAMPUS MINISTRY/ 
103 HESBURGH LIBRARY DIRECT INQUIRIES TO CLARE [1-338~ 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, January 25, 2000 
NFL AUSTRALIAN OPEN 
Rhodes joins Redskins as defense coordinator 
Associated Press 
ASHBURN, Va. 
Hay Rhodes just wants to coach football. even if it means a demotion. 
Rhodns, fired two weeks ago as head coach of the Green Bay Packers, signed a two-year con­tract Monday to become defen­sive coordinator of the Washington Hedskins. 
"The last couple of years, I've wanted to get more of a hands­on approach," Rhodes said. "I wanted to get back inlo coach­ing the defen­sive side of the 

against the run and 30th overall under Nolan, whose contract was not renewed. 
The Redskins also hired Foge Fazio as linebackers coach. Fazio, 60, is also moving down the ranks. having resigned last week as defensive coordinator of the Minnesota Vikings. 
Fazio said he had no hard feelings toward Vikings coach Dennis Green, who this month fired inside linebackers coach Tom Olivadotti without telling Fazio first. Fazio cited personal reasons for his move. 
"My mom lives in Pittsburgh. 
She's 91 years 
old," Fazio
"As a defensive
football." said. "It'll give
Hhodes went coordinator, I get a better me a chance to 8-8 in his only 
feel for hands-on. I can drive up there. 
season with I wasn't
have more time to do
the Packers around when and missed the football.,, my dad passedplayoffs. and mv older 
Rhodes pre­Ray Rhodes b r o i h e r 

viously had a passed, so I 30-36-1 record Washington defensive coordinator wanted to get 
over four sea­sons in Philadelphia, where two playoff appearances were fol­lowed by free-agent defections and two losing seasons that left a sour taste all around. 
Whether Rhodes could have been a serious candidate for any of the current NFL head coach­ing vacancies is debatable, but he's decided to take himself out of the running. 
"As a defensive coordinator, I get a better feel for hands-on," Rhodes said. "That means I can look in someone's face all day and not have to worry about some of the things you guys want to do from a press confer­ence standpoint. I can have more time to do football." 
Rhodes, 49, will have plenty of authority with the Redskins. Coach Non, Turner's specialty is offense, and he gives his defen­sive coordinator a great degree of autonomy. 
Turner's two previous defen­sive coordinators -Ron Lynn and Mike Nolan -were never able to get Washington out of the bottom five in run defense. This season's team ranked 27th 
bpow-e ;o me global leade' 
in "the teserornmunkat:on.. aible .and 
wrelesl. busi~. 
A stru~d program that includes.. 
~ect-.;;,n.:,nted itisignrre,m 
Co,'pc,11te-5porrored e,enu. 
Ne:,,,,a"kings e.,ents 
'Soc:al ia,,-.;.-ings 
Fcrmalobje::ti,-es a-.J ~.ai. 
M ~rt.r;,y ::o 1-.;h you-<'.iifee, 
C...,,_leng,tli.1 ~nrrerrr.. 
~enai ,n ~ fa.1une S.00 i:~ 

some quality time with her." 
Rhodes said there was no truth to reports that he wa.s a candidate to replace Fazio in Minnesota. 
"I don't know where the rumor came from," Rlrndes said. "But Minnesota was not a team that I talked with." 
In the Dan Snyder era of the Redskins, Rhodes took an unusual interview route to get the job. The owner traveled to Mobile, Ala., where Rhodes was attending the Senior Bowl, and had a face-to-face interview before Turner did. Director of player personnel Vinny Cerrato also met with Rhodes in Mobile. 
Turner spoke to Rhodes on the telephone last week before Rhodes' Monday visit to Redskin Park. The two have been coach­ing against each other for 15 years, when Turner was an assistant with the Rams and Rhodes was on the staff of the 49ers. 
"This profession is wild," Turner said. "It can make part­ners out of guys under unusual circumstances." 
F11>1 wnsder.rtit::f\ fl'.yf.lle i'ir-.ancial L~adet·:ihip PT~arn 
jab desuif)licn EnlfJl•(E!'llel ~rnent posrtial'I!., 8-11 wee I< i\JII 3!.Si~nt; 
Respc,,,,b,w+..es a.r, nc::~ but a-e not limted to: website de-velopment del'.,gn,n,t f;nar.::.al m:xlet, piilrnl1g aoo remits re,:nting and 1!f\i!ly'i!i, .i1ud1tmg, MB.A ~ 
Req.,i~nts: R,s,ng sophomore_ jur.or. 1md senior BA er-MB.A in Finance, Ao:'Ount,ng. or Ec=rnu C~latr,,e GPA or 15 f)"f'fen't'd. JD rniri 
Derr.omirw.ed att.rbJ:e~ of leadet'.hip Solid anaJ.,tR<ll ,md comrn..ru­cauo.r.s 1k.il!. Creatw a."tl· eflln',pr,;!n1Jn-,e,•ial sprit. Te.am1,-ak k)cu:;,, 
l.ocalioo: Majorit,' of j'.X)Sitior;;; h ~Je.v )t!r.e,.., (Howng assist.nee arid vvApcr.ation ava,l.ble.) 
When: Subrm yoir rewme online at GOIRlSH cn,isit tJ> .at the jariu.ry 27 5.rnm.?r lntern Ca,-ee, F.:w 
~AT&T 
Hurt Capriati heads to semis 
Associated !'res. 
MELBOUHNE, Australia 
If there were any doubts that Jennifer Capriati is ready to challenge for Grand Slam titles again, she erased them Tuesday as she charged into the Australian Open semifi­nals. 
Not oven a strained abdom­inal muscle, which caused her to take an early injury timnout, slowed Capriati in a thorough 6-0, 6-2 thrashing of Ai Sugiyama, who had knocked off No. 4 Mary Pierce. 
Capriati, 23, hadn't reached a Grand Slam semifinals since Wimbledon and the U.S. in 1991, when she was almost universally viewed as the future star of women's tennis. 
But she fell in the quarterfi­nals or majors six times over the next twn years, then drift­ed out of the game and didn't return to play the full Grand Slam circuit until last year, when she failed to get past the l'nurth round. 
This time. at a tournament whern she had never gone 
past the quarters, she showed that all her work in coming hack, all the practice sessions with coach Harold Solomon, all the counseling she has undergone, have paid off. 
Playing under the closed roof because of light showers, Capriali crushed returns so consistently that Sugiyama managed to win only four points on serve in the first set, which lasted just 24 min­utes. 
Capriati kept pummeling groundstrokes down the lines to race to a 4-0 lead in the second set bofore finally yielding on her own serve. 
After Sugiyama held serve for the first and onlv time, Capriati closed out the match by holding serve easily and breaking Sugiyama for the sixth time to win in 55 min­utes. 
"I really felt in a groove out there," said Capriati, who hit 16 winners to Sugiyama's one. 
Capriati shrugged off the injury and said it won't ham­per her in the semis against the winner of Tuesday night's Lindsay Davenport-Julie 
Halard-Decugis match. 
Martina Hingis felt sorry to see Serena Williams depart so soon from the Australian Open, only because she want­ed to knock Williams out her­self. 
There is no love lost between the two teen-agers, and the memory of Williams' victory in their U.S. Open final still rankles the highly competitive and somewhat imperious Hingis. 
On a court she considers her personal playpen, Hingis looked forward to avenging the defeat in New York and buttressing her standing as the top player on -the women's tour. 
Hingis won her 25th con­secutive match at Melbourne Park on Monday, a 6-1, 7-6 
(3) triumph over Sandrine Testud, to move within three victories of claiming her fourth straight title Down Under. 
Williams, scrnded No. 3, might have stood in llingis' way in the semiltnals but self­destructe d with unforced errors in a 6-3, 6-3 loss to Russian Elena Likhovtseva. 


Tuesday, January 25, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
NFL 
Bucs blame loss on confidence 
the year before. They used the though, that there will be
Associated Press 
.500 finish as motivation to changes in 2000 -especially rebound in 1999, and set a on offense.
TAMPA. Fla. 

franchise record for victories The Bucs ranked 30th inThere's no room for compla­en route to their first NFC passing and 28th overall, andcency in the Tampa Bay Central Division title in 18 the problem they had scoringBuccaneers' plan to take what years. points was never more evident
they feel is a rightful place 
Now, the challenge is to not than Sunday when the defenseamong the NFL's elite teams. 
take another step back. shut down the explosive Rams
The snason ended Sunday "We were but the offense settled for awith the Rues 
one play pair of field goals on two trips
talking not so 
"Put this same ball club 
away from inside the St. Louis 10.
much about 
back together a year the greatest Coach Tony Dungy said
correcting 
show on Monday that one of the first
errors they frum now, invite us to the 
earth and orders of business in the off­
made in an 11-dance and we're going to 
we've got to seas on will be determining
6 loss to St. 
go at it again." realize the what, if any, changes need to
Louis in th~i 
type of effort be made in the offensive system 
NFC: champi­
and desire to give rookie quarterback
onship game, Warren Sapp 
and work that Shaun King the best chance to
but rather 
Tampa Bay defensive tackle it takes to gPt succeed.
avoiding the 
to this point, King replaced the injured
mistakes they 
and find a way to get it done Trent Dilfer in late Novembermade after bowing out of the again," Sapp said. and was 5-1 as a starter during
playoffs two years ago. 
"!. like my r.hances with this Tampa Bay's drive to the NFC"I think wt> got a littlP big­ball club. I'll go lo war with title game. His inexperienceheaded anct forgot about all the them every day or the week and was a factor against the Hams,hard work that went into get­twice on Sunday. No doubt although Dungy didn't see any­ting where we wern," defensive about it. Put this same ball dub thing that changed his mindtackle Warren Sapp said. "We back together a year from now, about the rookie's abilities. 
cn,n 'l let that happen again." 
invite us to the dance and we're "We have to decide philo­The Bucs went 8-8 and going to go at it again" sophically what we're going tomisse<l the playoffs in 1998 There's a good chance, be," the coach said. 
after a breakthrough season 
Na01e change brings new chance to Titans 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 

By now, nearly everyone has seen the cross-field lateral and the 75-yard kickoff return known as the Music City Miracle. And Colts fans are painfully aware that instant replay caught Terrence Wilkins' right foot out of bounds. 
Pure luck'' Maybe. Destiny'? Perhaps. 
Either way, the Tennessee Titans are in the Super Bowl ­something they never managed to do in their previous life as the Houston Oilers. 
"This is a very blessed sea­son that's all I can say," run­ning back Rodney Thomas said. "Everybody prays for a win, but not everybody gets it." 
Hcmember, this is the fran­chise that specialized in losing whether home was Jeppesen Stadium, Rice Stadium or the Astrodome in Houston, the Liberty Bowl in Memphis, or Vanderbilt Stadium in Nashville. 
Oilers fans still think officials stole a touchdown from Mike Renfro in the 1979 AFC Championship against the Pittsburgh Steelers. 
They went 8-8 the previous three seasons thanks to blown leads and debacles such as a game against Seattle on Nov. 3, 1996. The Oilers needed only Al Del Greco's last-second field goal for a victory when Michael Mccrary blocked the kick. setting up a 61-yard TD return. Final score: Seattle, 23­
16. In 1998, Del Grer.o wasn't even on the field when the Chicago Bears beat Tennessee on a botched field goal. 
This season, playing as the Titans, things were very differ­ent. They finished 16-3 through the playoffs, a fran­chise record, and went 9-0 in their first year at Adelphia Coliseum. 

F 
E 
&INCH:SUB! 

Coupon& 

Purchase Of Medium Or Large Drink 

Required! 

WHEN? 3 HOURS ONLY! Thursday, Jan 27th from 5 -8 PM WHERE? ONE PLACE ONLY! SUBWAY-1706 South Bend Ave (Near ND-Next To Welsh Service Ctr) 
Order Your Super Bowl Party Sub Now! 

Co....-ipc:>~ 
•"'llEE 6 ln••h S11h \l"il.h 1-.1rel1ase Of 11,..1i111n 01• l...arge Drink! 

=PEPSI 
Coupon Required. Regular Subs Only (No Dbl Meat or Extra Cheese). One Free Sub Per Customer. NOf Good With Other Offers. Good Only <ff 1706South BendAve,Jan 27th, 2000, 5-8PM. 
Spring Break Seminars March 11-19, 2000 Experiential/ Service Leaming Center for Social Concerns  
APPALACHIA SEMINAR -> Work and learn at one of 10 sites in the Appalachian region -> An ND tradition of service-learning CIVIL RIGHTS & SOCIAL CHANGE SEMINAR -> Travel to key civil rights sites in the South (e.g., the King Center, the Nat. Civil Rights Inst.) -> Learn from leaders who were instrumental in civil rights legislation and development -> A new and unique Seminar opportunity L'ARCHE COMMUNITY SEMINAR -> Live for a week in community with persons 0 with disabilities -> Read the work of Jean Vanier MIGRANT EXPERIENCES SEMINAR -> Work in the fields with migrant workers -> Assist agencies that serve migrants -> Live with migrant families WASHINGTON SEMINAR Theme: Jubilee Justice -> Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. -> Service and political awareness opportunities All seminars offer one academic credit tlU C£NTER FORApplications Available Now at the CSC SOCIAL CONCERNSA p p Ii c a ti o n s D u e: Ja n. 27, 2000  

" 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, January 25, 2000 
SMC SWIMMING 

Belles confident for championship, despite close losses 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Saint Mary's Editor 
When freshman Megan Harris touched the wall one­hundredth of a second after her DePauw competitor in the 500 freestyle Saturday after­noon, her swim was mirrored the rest of the meet: all too close. 
It look 40 minutes to com­pletely tabulate the final score -a loss for the Saint Mary's swimming and diving team. Walking away from the score table, head coach Gretchen Hildebrandt was somewhat disappointed. 
"I thought we had beaten DePauw." she said. "But it's hard to be upset when these women are swimming so well." 
Dropping their final dual meet of the season, 64-39, to MIAA force Kalamazoo and non-league DePauw Saturday, the Saint Mary's swimmers and divers finished their sea­son 2-7. It is an improvement over last year's record but slightly short of the team's season goal of .500. 
"We're swimming strong teams," said first year coach Gretchen Hildebrandt. "In terms of points, this was not a winning season. But I can't believe that any of the other teams out there have posted personal bests every meet, and has every swimmer swimming to their potential." 
Breaking records three times during the dual meet season and holding a diver on their roster for the first time in three years, the season marked several beginnings that could lead to hard-earned benefits, noted Hildebrandt. 

"This program has grown leaps and bounds from where it was," she said. "H's hard keeping up with the other pro­grams that are growing at the same pace, but we are swim­ming phenomenally." 
Not unlike previous losses, Saturday's defeat was close. Off the boards, freshman diver Jani Kesteloot's third-place finish in the 1-meter competi­tion grabbed solid points for Saint. Mary's, easing the deficit from 24 points lost in the 3­meter competition. 
"We're lucky to have [Kesteloot]." Iliklflbrandt said. "She doesn't have the experi­ence in the 3 meter yet, but she scores big points for us." 
In the pool, the swimmers pulled out the close races and popped some surprise finishes to put the meet within reach. The medley relay of Alicia Lesneskie, Michelle Samreta, Lane Herrington and Colleen Sullivan finished first in 1 minute. 58.86 seconds. five­tenths short of the door of the school record. 
Olivia Smith grabbed second in the 1000 freestyle, posting a season-best time of 11:36.07, followed by Sullivan's first­place 200-freestyle finish in a season-best personal time. 
Lauren Smith added another second place in the 200 indi­vidual medley, and Herrington added third place 100 butterfly and 100 backstroke finishes. Co-captain Samreta wrapped up the meet, winning the 100 breastroke in her last colle­giate dual meet. 
OBSERVER SPORTS: A whole new world. Call 1-4543. 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS 2000 
DO SOMETHIN(i 
DIFFERENT 
TM IS SUMMER .. 

De iai:dl ines f o:r summer credit earning progr.am1 
~ ACCION -FEBRUARY 17, 2000
V 

WATCH FOR INFORMATION MEETING TIM£ COMING SOON! 
~ LEADERSHIP INTERNS-FEBRUARY 21, 2000 
.. ¥ •AFRICAN AMERICAN • HISPANIC 
INFORMATION MEE11NG: WHERE: CENTE.11 FOR SoCIAL CONCERNS (COFFEE HousE) WHEN.' MONDAY, JANUARY 31 TtME: 7:30 PM -8 PM 
~ INTERNATIONAL SUMMER SERVICE PROGRAM 
V 
(DEADLINE PAST) 

~ SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS-JANUARY 28, 2000 
INFORMATION AND APPLICATIONS 

FOR ALL PROGRAMS ARE AVAILABLE 
AND DUE AT THE CENTER FOR 5ocJAL CONCERNS 



NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer 

Distance freestyle swimmer Olivia Smith, shown here against Albion College at Saint Mary's Nov. 16, finished with a season-best time in the 1000 freestyle against DePauw Saturday. 
But even with solid finishes, pionships at Rolfs Aquatic of 1999. close wasn't enough. Center Feb. 10-12. That meet "They're ready to swim fast." 
"It's not over yet," said will mark the first MIAA cham-said Hildebrandt. "Mentally, Hildebrandt, who will lead the pionshlp hosted by Saint they're confident in their abi!· women with a home advantage Mary's since its acceptance ities, and they're waiting to at the MIAA conference cham-into the MrAA in the summer see what they're capable of.'' 
WANT TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF A CHILD THIS SUMMER? COME FOR A JOD INTERVIEW TO WORKAT: CAMP SWEENEY A RESIDENTIAL SPORTS CAlvfP IN NORTH TEXAS FOR CHILDREN WITH DIABETES INTERVIEWS FRIDAY, JANUARY 28th FROM 9:00 AM to s~oo PM IN THE LaFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER Camp Sweeney is an equal opportunity employer.  
Oelfu-e~i,rj Tk ~,~fo-£_t ffzza.1 @3®[la 1llli® @ . ®@CT! 1J(!]®~(!)~~~g  
12 Anytime Anytime you call between you call between 5:30 & 7:00, 10:30-12:59 9 9 3the price of your the price of yourI large 1 topping 2 large 1 topping pizzas pizza 6 is the time you call.is the time you call. * Plus tax* Plus tax  
,----------------,Lunch Special1 1 1 Small 1 Topping I ND store 12 Cans of Coca-Cola product I Saint Mary's/ I $5 99 I •271-11.77 L ______ .:_ ______ .J North Village Mall 271-PAPA  

Tuesday, January 25, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
CLUB SPORTS 
WoD1en's skiing leads mediocre club sports 
Special to The Observer 
The new semester found the Ski Club opening its season in Searchmont. C.A. where Llw women dominated tlrn week­end's results. Freshman sensa­tion \lolly Munsterer led the squad to first pla,.e finishes in botb the slalom and giant slalom i>vents. Nickie Douillet had lwr usual standout perfor­rnunce. while Jennifor Caswell. Katr! Hvan. and Ellen Block also had girnd timPs to lead the tl'am. Michigan and Michigan State were distant sf>cond and third place finishers. The men were not as fortunate. l1nishing rirt.h in each event. Hyan Boger's 23rd place finish paced the Irish. 
The Bowling Club placed 18th among a strong field at Dayton University's Eagle Classic this weekend. Topping thfl Irish avflrages was Jason Pawlek's 208, followed by Dan Bultke's 189, Darren Kraft's 
183. Kevin McFadden's 182 and Dave Bigato's 177. This weekend is the ma_jor event of thf> year for the duh. a~ th~y host the Blue and Gold Classic at Beacon· Bowl on Saturday, 1 -7 p.m., and Sunday, 9:30 a.m. -4 p.m. 
Over fifry tP-ams from all over 
. the country will trek to South Bend, including many national­ly rankf>d squads. Anne Deitch has her squad poised on their home lanes to ambush some top clubs. 

FRIDAY, JANUARY 28 IWIII VALLEY 
RY28 
BUS LEAVES LIBRARY CIRCLE AT 5:00 PM 
COST;  $31.00  INCLUDES LIFT TICKET. RENTAL  
AND TRANSPORT  
$22.00  llFT TICKET AND TRANSPORT ONLY  

RETURN BUS LEAVES SWISS VALLEY AT 10:00 PM BEGINNER LESSONS AVAILABLE FREE OF CHARGE 
REGISTER AND PAV IN ADVANCE AT ­
DEADLINE: JANUARY 26 

COORDINATOR OF YOUTH MINISTRY 
needed in a suburban, 2500-family parish in Baton Rouge, La. Ministry will include recruitment, development and training of volunteer youth workers and collaborative work with a large parish staff. The ideal candidate will possess a minimum of three years' experience in working with teenagers, and a degree in theology/ youth ministry, pastoral studies, communications, guidance, or the equivalent in education and/or experience. Benefits included. Send 
resume and references no later than March 
1, 2000 to: St. Thomas More Catholic Church, 11441 Goodwood Blvd., Baton 
Rouge, LA 70815; or FAX us at (225) 275­
1407, Attn: Father John Carville. Email address is STM02@compuserve.com. 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

Koss,Skorney guide Irish at invite 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Saine Mary's Ediwr 
Mike Koss and Ryan Skornoy grabbed the limelight for the lrish this wflekend. Sf>curing individual wins at the Bill Hitter Invitational hosted by the University of Wisconsin­Milwaukee. 
Half of the Irish swimming and diving squad trekked to Milwaukee, powering to a third place overall finish hf>hind University of Wisconsin­Milwaukee. University of Wisconsin-Green Bay won the meet with 912 points. 
The meet, which compressed all championship events into a 24-hour period, was grueling physically and mentally. said head coach Tim Welsh. 
"From the neck down, we got tired," Welsh said. "But from thfl neck up, we did great. We were looking for as much rac­ing as we could find in a short amount of time, and we found it." 

Koss and Skorney won back­to-back events for Notre Dame, with Koss leading the 100 breasiroke for a win in 1 minute, 00.02 seconds Skorney followed, grabbing a win in the 100 backstroke in 53.16. 
Other individual finishes included freshman Clay Miller in the 400 individual medley finishing in second place, and sophomore Elliott Drury, who swam a career best and a sec­ond place finish in the 1650 freestyle, concluding the meet. 
The University of Wisconsin­Milwaukee again meets to Notre Dame on Friday, open­ing the weekend at Rolfs Aquatic Center against the Irish at 4 p.m. 
... ~-. 
Recruits 
continued from page 28 
future. It's to Notre Damfl's benefit. The appeal of hav­ing a grnat a,.ademic insti­tution can never be lost," he said. 
That advantage also led the Irish to receive two more commitments over the weekend from receiver Ron Rodamer (Morgantown. W. Va.) and linebacker Derek r.urry (Sealy, Texas). 
Rodamer, a high school teammate of current Irish player Chris Yura, chose the Irish over Clemson on Friday. to become the fifth receiver to commit tu play for Notre Dame. Rodamer joins Crawford, Jovan Witherspoon (Fort Wayne, Ind.), Omar Jenkins (Dallas, Texas) and Jerome Collins (Wheaton, fll.) to form a loaded receiving corps. 
"I felt home there lat Notre Dame]," Rodamer said. "ln my head, that was where I wanted to go." 
Rodamer is already familiar with the two quar­tflrbacks that have already committed, Jared Clark (Sarasota, Fla.) and Matt Lovecchio (Oradell, N.J.}. All three attended the Notre Dame summer foot­ball camp this past sum­mer. 
"That [the camp] was a good experience," said Rodamer, who is currently the starting small forward on his high school basket­ball team. I got to see the campus an~. all the coaches were there. 




College of Arts and Letters University of Notre Dame 
The College of Arts and Letters Invites Student Nominations for Kaneb Teaching Awards 
Each year Kaneb Teaching Awards recognize_approximately 25 Arts and Letters faculty for excellence in undergraduate teaching. 
Tenured faculty as well as professional specialist and adjunct faculty who have taught at least five years are eligible. 
Take advantage of this opportunity to have a voice in the selecti~n of these recipients by nominating one of your outstanding teachers for this award. 
Send a brief letter indicating what is special or significant about this instructor to: 
Dian Murray, Associate Dean 101 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Monday, February 7 

page 24 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, January 25, 2000 

mom and dad 
ATM 

When you're broke, you look at things in a whole new way. 
So for textbooks and stuff, hit ecampus.com. You'll save up to 50%. And shipping's always free. 
ecampus~com 
Textbooks & Stuff. Cheap. 

Win atrip to Jamaica for Spring Break. No purchase necessary. Sweepstakes begins 01/03/00 and ends 02/17/00. Open to US residents, 18 years and older. Void where prohibited. For details see Official Rules on www.ecampus.com or send aself addressed stamped envelope by 02/10/00 to: rJo Rolling Stone Spring Break, 1290 Avenue of the Americas, NY, NY 10104. ,;.NA and VT residents may omit return postage.) 
Tuesday, January 25, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
Swi01 
continued from page 28 
.Shannon Suddarth and Kathleen Himkus in thP lOO breastroke. and a top finish from Alison Newell in the 200 butterfly. Nixon placed second in the 50 freestyle and first in the 100 freestyle. A 1-2 finish from <;ina Ketelhohn and Rhiana Saunders in 1-mctcr diving secured Notre Dame with a 4-point lead entPr­ing the 200 breastroke. 
With points flying back and forth between the teams. it was anyone's meet until the 200 breaststroke, when Northwestern 's Adrian Talcott faltered with a lifth-place finish and two Northwestern swim­mers were disqualified. 
"That mistake gave us a chance to heat them," Weathers said. "We knew after the breas­trokH that WH could have this 
mef't." 
The mistake allowed Notre Dame's Suddarth, Kathleen llimkus, Lloyd, and Kerry VVhite to respectively grab lirsf, sec­ond. third and fourth place breastroke points, jolting the Irish to an 18-point lead. 
Quickly shutlling his lineup to cement the victory, Weathers moved Nixon to the 100 butter­fl v and Newell to the 500 freestyle. Nixon grabbed second after a first-place finish from BargPr in the 100 butterfly, and Newell grabbed third in the 500 freestyle. 
A sweep of the diving from Ketelhohn, Karli Richards, Heather Mattingly and Saunders finalized the win, giving tho team enough of a lead to carry them to the finish. 
"We had this meet planned out tu the last relay," Weathers said. "This is just another step along the way for us -it gives us the confidence that we can succeHd in close meets." 
The squad rounded out its weekend with a win over the visiting Illini Saturday night, capturing 14 of 16 events for a 183.5-116.5 victory. 
Nixon led the team with wins in four ewmts, capturing the 50 and 1DO freestyles and leading the 200 ,rnd 400 medley relays. Hecking also picked up three wins for the Irish, and Lloyd, Uarer, r\ewell and Ketelhohn were double event winners. Suddarth and Kristen Van Saun also walked away with event wins. 
Like sports? Write for The Observer. 
Call 1-4543 for info. 
FENCING 

Fencers eye championships 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Associate Sports Editor 
If there was auy question about whether the Notre Dame fencing team would be a con­tender for tlrn 2000 national title. it was answered Sunday when the women's and men's teams turm1d in a strong sea­son-opening performances. 
Facing top competition like St. John's, Columbia, Stanford and NYU, the women's team went undefeated while the men's team finished 2-2, with a close loss to Stanford. 
"I was happy with all the fencers," women's foil captain Magda Krol said. "Especially with the new format of only fencing three fencers, it meant that it was going to be harder because we didn't have as deep a team anymore. But the women pulled through and fenced well." 
The women's team defeated Columbia, 19-8, NYU, 22-5, Stanford, 15-12 and St. John's, 14-13. 
The men's team struggled a bit against top competition, defeating Columbia. 18-9, and NYU, 20-7, but losing to Stanford, 14-13, and St. John's, 16-11. Despite drop­ping two matches, the team is not too concerned with the slow start. 
"I think it was just a slow start getting into the groove of competition," men's sabre cap­tain Clay Morton said. "We had a few mental lapses dur­ing the day. We would fence well then have a mental lapse 

and then gHt back to fencing 
well again." 
A big reason for the Irish success was the play of fresh­man who led four of the six squads in weekend wins. Jan Viviani led the men's epee squad with an 8-3 record while Forest Walton and Ozren Debic posted 8-:i and 7-3 records, respectively, for the men's foil squad. 
On the women's side, fresh­man Meagan Call paced the epce team with a 9-3 record while Anna Carnick was right on her heels with an 8-4 record. Natal.ia Mazur finished tho day with the most wins by a freshman as she posted a 10-2 record for the sabre· women. 
"On each of the squads there are one and usually two fresh­men that am contributing to the squad and the overall team," Morton said. "They arc being early leaders with a qui.et confidence." 
Veteran Irish fencers also had strong a wHckend. Sophomores Gabor Szelle and Andre Crompton led the sabre team with 7-2 and 8-2 records, respectively. Like the rest of the men's sabre team, howev­er, both had their worst show­ings against St. John's with Szelle going 2-1 and Crompton finishing 1-2 against the Red Storm. 
Overall, Morton said mental lapses and controversy hurt the sabre squad against St. John's. 
"Two or three of the losses [to St. John's] were due to mental lapses," he said. "Crompton lost on a controver­sial call that the judges had to talk about for five or 10 min­utes. [The Red Storm] is really good and well looked a litt!H nervous because they were by far the best team we fenced." 
The star of the weekend for the Irish was Krol, who posted a 10·2 record. Krol, who switched to foil after earning a national championship and three All-American letters at epee, proved she to be just as tough in her new category. 
Krol's best wins came against 1999 foil champion Monique de Bruin from Stanford (5-2) and Columbia's first team NI-American Susan Jennings (5-0). 
"I went in just wanting to do my best," Krol said of her lirst collegiate foil match since her sophomore year. "I changed my focus to foil and prepared mentally, but I didn't expect to beat either of those two. I couldn't believe it. I think I was in a state of shock." 
The strong weekend proved the Irish will once again be a factor in the national title pic­ture. 
"This builds confidence and gives us a better way to look at the upcoming season," Krol said. "It's still not going to be easy because this tournament doesn't mean that we have already won the champi­onship. It is definitely a huge step forward and is intimidat­ing to other teams and going to make them rethink their positions in the NCAAs." 


page 2(-, The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, January 25, 2000 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Saint Mary's reIDains winless overall 
By KATIE McVOY Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's basketball tf'am dropped its league record to O -10 and its oYerall record to 0-1 7 this weekend as it was bested bv two MIAA teams. 
The y<~ung Saint Mary's teum dropped its first game to Hope College, 87-54, on Saturday. Alma College \VOil Sunday's game, 7J-51. 
Hope came into Saturday's game with a 7-2 MI.AA record and an overnll record of 11-5. 
"They are an excellent team." junior Julie Norman said. ''They're always a powerhouse and it's hard tu bundle a team like that on the road." 
Hope took the lead early in tlrn game and never let it go, although Saint Mary's fought back. 
"We were flat and Hope would go on a scoring run, but then we'd come back," Norman said. 
The Belles, who have had an aggressive press all season, used that to their advantage against the Flying Dutch. At half time Saint Mary's had forced eight turnovers while the Hope had not forced any. 
"We always come out ready to play," '.',Jorman said. "Most teams would give up, but we give it our all." 
Hope beat the Belles under the boards. Flying Dutchwoman Kristin Koenigsknecht had a league-high 18 rebounds. 

Following that difficult loss, the Saint Mary's faced Alma College Sunday. Alma curn~ntly leads the MIAA with a league record of 8-2 and an overall record of 11-6. 
The game opened wiih Alma taking an 1·1 -2 lead, but. thf-l Br.Iles bounced back to a I '.1-1 I lead. Then the energy ran down. Alma w,rnt on a 30-Y scoring run, ending the half with a com­manding lead. 
"If we had been able to come back the first five minutes of tho half. we would have had a chance," Norman sairl. 
The Belles, however. did not. During the second half Saint \iary's tried to come back. 
"We were so far down and everyone thought we wern out," Norman said. "Then we came b~ck, but we had nothing l:,ft to give tu stay where we were. 
Although they have faced a lot of adversity this season, the Belles continue to be proud of their efforts. 
"The biggest thing is thut we always show a lot of character," Norman said. "Manv of the coaches of the other teams we have played have said as much, and that's something we can take pride in. Adversity builds character." 
Saint Mary's looks to capture its first win on Saturday as it faces Olivet College. Olivet comes into the game with only one win. 
"This is our weekend to win," Norman said. 
HOCKEY 

Zasowski takes rookie awards 

MIKE HARRIS/The Observer Tony Zawoski, ranked seventh among all Central Collegiate Hockey Association goaltenders, won a second rookie-of-the-week award from the CCHA for his performance against Western 
Michigan Jan. 21-22. 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame freshman goal­tender Tony Zasowski (Darien, Ill.} has earned his second rookie-of-the-week award from the Central Collegiate Hockey Association, after helping the Irish hockey team post a pair of victories over Western Michigan on Jan. 21-22. 
Zasowski totaled 41 saves and allowed just one even­strength goal in the pair of vic­tories (4-3 in overtime and 4­1). He helped stop seven-of­eight WMU power plays in the second game while opening with 23 straighrsaves. 

Zasowski ranks seventh among regular CCII/\ goal­tenders with a 2.41 overall sea­son goals-against average and fourth among league net-min­ders who have played 750-plus minutes-while his . 908 overall save percentage ranks fifth among CCHA goalies with 750­plus minutes. Both of those marks remain on pace to best the Notre Dame records set by Forrest Karr (2.58, 1998-99} and Mark Kronholm (. 907, 1970-71). 
Zasowski has allowed just 25 even-strength goals in 17 games played this season while allowing 0-2 total goals in 10 of his 14 starts. He has posted two shutouts this season (19 saves vs. Alaska Fairbanks, 24 vs. Michigan State) to join Karr as the only Irish goaltenders ever to post multiple solo shutouts in the same season. 
He previously was named CCHA rookie of the week on Nov. 1, after making 58 saves in a series with Miami University (5-2, 2-2). 

EVERY Major Wanted: 
Get Hands on Experience with the COUNCIL 
Student International Business Organziation 


fl.II rttroYnrcil ~remi-PlnnY~I 'l fiecrt11ilmenl !fY/eeling 
Tuesday, January 25th, 2000 Jordan Auditorium, COBA 
7:00 PM 

Come to find out about International Internships, Leadership Positions, Contacts, scoop on Fortune 500 companies 
NDSCIBD 


Tuesday, January 25, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
TOM KEELEY 

A DEPRAVED New WORLD JEFF BEAM
FOURTH AND INCHES 
S T&o MVCH MATH 
$ 5cl\OOi-, NO&O 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
RecSports Office Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 

.1::=::=-==·Deadlin~ for all: January 27th 
1·6100 • http://www.nd.edu/--recsport 

C . REC VOLLEYBALL 
IH Team Raquetball (M&W) 
lnterhall Bowling (M&W) 

lo~el Aa9 footba\\ 
Campus Raquetball Doubles (M&W) 
Fox TROT 
RoGER, 'YOU !T'S M1SS1t,1G WHAT Do CAN'T WEAR TWO SUTTONS! YOU THAT SHIRT I CAN SEE THINIC 
To WORK! 'YOUR STOMACH! TtES I ARE 
FoR?
i0/
e 
\.. 
'/ 

BILLAMEND  
'SEE? AI.L COVERED OP. I  I'M 8EG1Nt,11NG THE IN­To UNDERSTAND VENTION 'YOUR 0P1'0S1T10N OF To '"c:ASUAL DAY.'' 'YoUNC, PEoPI.E WITH 'YOUNG SHIRTS.  
beam.1@nd.edu  

14 17  2  3  4  6  7  8  9  
20  
24  
38  
42  
46  

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

1 Georgia_ s Seven-time A.L. batting champ Rod 1o Architect of St. 
Paul's Cathedral 14 Monster 15 Plus end 16 Mortgage 
consideration 1r Christo, notably 19 Concerning 20 _ Perce 
(Western tribe) 
21 Postal workers have them: Abbr. 
22 Very uneven 24 Shipboard functionary 26 Part of beauty pageant attire 27 Stat for 5-Across 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

2e 
32 
3s 
37 
38 
40 
41 
42 
43 45 
46 
48 
50 
51 55 
58 
Certain 
sneakers Interstate hauler It sometimes thickens Impede legally 
Factory "What Kind of 
Fool_" (1962 hit) Part of a 
subway 
entrance Friend in a sombrero 
Kind of room Pre-owned 
I.A.A renewal Little toymaker New Haven 
collegians Cold symptom Result cif ironing Couple 

59  Alamos  
so  It's rounded up  
in a roundup  
s1  Take train  
stations by  
force?  
64  "Picnic"  
playwright  
es  Giving  
goosebumps  
66  Carpet layer's  
calculation  
67  "O"  
68  Hans Christian  
Andersen and  
others  
69  Slothful  
DOWN  
1  Villages  
2  Protected bird  
3  Beanie Babies,  
e.g.  
4  With it, in the  
SO's  
s  Travel on a road  
s  Chipped in  
1  18 Louises  

s CBS's Bradley and others 9 Symbol of limpness 10 Airplane wings, propellers, etc. 
11 Phoned 
12 To be, in Toulouse 13 Penury 1a -Israeli 
relations 23 "Angela's _• Laundry cycle supervisor? 2& Protester's ploy 
60 
64 
67 
Puzzle by Richard Chisholm 
2a Quite a hit 29 Inventor Elisha 30 Tent support 31 Went 80, say 32 Box 33 Ticklish fellow 34 Armor of 
interlinked rings 36 Disables 39 Factory things 44 Deliberative 
bodies 47 Watched 49 Eye parts 
s1 "If You Knew _"(Eddie Cantor favorite) 
s2 Fauna's partner 53 Golf pro Nancy 54 Emerson work 55 Golf shot 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: i-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888· ?-ACROSS. 

Birthday Baby: You were born to wheel and deal -quick to recognize exactly what you are capable of doing and always willing to do what's neces­sary to get where you want to go. You're a doer with a longing for adventure. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialasLcom, a.stromate.com.) · it) 2000 Univetsal Press Syndicate 
12 
13 
s& It's NE of Tahoe 57 Therefore ss Hollywood's 
Bruce or Laura s2 Actor Stephen 63 Jazz guitarist 
Farlow 

HOROSCOPE 
TUESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Dean Jones, Jacqueline DuPre, Corazon Aquino, Diana Hyland, Dinah Manorl=, Andy Cox, China Slick 
Happy Birthday: You may not know where to start this year, but if you focus on communications, you won't lose. You will find it much eas­ier lo get your point across and con­vince others to support your efforts. Follow your gut feeling, and you will find yourself moving in a positive direction. The more precise you are, the more confident you'll become. Your numbers: 5, 16, 23, 29, 31, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get down to business. You will be able to manipulate situations and get sup­port from your peers. Your added discipline will enable you to com­plete some of those unfinished pro­jects. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): This is a great day to shop for that special outfit you've been longing to buy. Make physical changes that will improve your looks and draw addi­tional attention from potential new mates. 00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Real estate deals will be lucrative if you put your plans into action immedi­ately. Don't hesitate to put money into upgrading your house in order to get a higher price. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Someone you care about may need help. Try to do things with children that will enable you to form a closer relationship with them. You may wantto join creative courses. 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): It's a good time to make career moves or set up interviews regarding a better position in the firm you're already with. Your ability to charm super­iors will help you achieve your 
EUGENIA LAST 
objectives. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-SepL 22): Recy­cle your old ideas and get ready to incorporate new ones. Your emotions will be hard to control if you don't kee :· extremely busy. Put additional det:;J into your work. 000 
LIBRA (SepL 23-0ct. 22): You can find that special outfit if you shop today. Look into ways of pampering yourself. Fitness clubs and spas may be just what you need. Look into mak­ing your home more comfortable. 
000 
·SCORPIO (OCT. 23-NOV. 21): You have the best intentions in mind concerning your dearest friends. You will have a greater involvement with children. It will be easy to make new 
friends.0000 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21): Promote your intentions and you will gain approval from superiors. Expect to have changes in your home environment. It is best to accept the inevitable. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your enthusiasm and additional energy will be today's saving grace. Business trips will be successful. Employers or business partners will be delighted with your work. 00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Losses and conflicts will result ifyou get involved in joint financial ven­tures. You must be careful regarding minor health problems. Too much stress will lead to lowered vitality. 
000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your • unselfish contributions to groups of a humanitarian nature will bring admiration from colleagues. Exhaus­tion will set in if you've made unre­alistic promises regarding your time. 
000 


FOOTBALL 
Academics lures recruits 
By TIM CASEY 
Sporrs Writer 
Part of any college coach's job is to be a salesman, to con­vince players that his school best suits a recruit. Here at Notre Dame, there are some built in advantages. 
Just ask Steve Addazio, Notre Dame's tight 1Jnds coach. who convincer! Lorenzo Crawford, a 5-foot-1 l. 185-pound receiver from Paterson Catholic High School in Paterson, N.J., to commit to the Irish over the weekend. 
Originally, Crawford had ver­bally committed to North Carolina in August. 
Then. after visiting Notre Dame on the first weekend of December. he had second thoughts. 
"They !Notre Dame] weren't even in my list of top six 
. schools over the summer," said Crawford, who caught 37 pass­es for 858 yards with 14 touch­downs while leading Paterson Catholic to its first state cham­pionship this fall. "I knew nothing about Notre Dame. Then I learned more about the school. When I learned that nearly 99 percent of athletes graduate in four years, it was something. And you can pretty much get a job anywhere with a degree from there." 
Sound familiar? Almost every recruit that has committed this year or in the past has alluded to the academic side of Notre Dame as its main attraction. Or at least a distinction that sepa­rates Notre Dame from the Floridas and Nebraskas of the world. 
With the on the field strug­

• 
gles of the past few years, the "we're preparing you for 40 years, not just the next four" line is the essence of what Notre Dame has to offer. 
"Kids are fairly savvy these days," said Allen Wallace, a recruiting analyst for CNNSI.com. ''They're thinking about the overall school as opposed to just the football program. They may have dreams of playing in the NFL but they know it's a long shot. 
"There certainly are some players that are looking at other schools and may not want to choose academics. They are still good kids. But it's a big world out there .. There are still many recruits that care a lot about their 
see RECRUITS /page 23 


H2-GO! 
Looking past a disappointing regular season record, Saint Mary's swim team anxiously awaits the MIAA conference championship Feb. 10-I2.
PORTS 
page 22 

page 28 o~stRVER Tuesday, January 25, 2000 
BASKETBALL 
Irish, 'Canes fight to boost Big East ranks 
"We're definitely looking at the homestand as a way to separate ourselves from the pack. We're in the middle ofthe pack and hopefully we can get to the top." 
Jimmy Dillon Irish point guard 


By BRIAN KESSLER 
Spotts Editor 
ThA Notre Dame men's basketball team(] 2-7, 3-2) will look to make a move in the Big East conference when it continues its four-game homestand at 7:30 tonight against Miami (11-7, 4-2). 
"We're definitely looking at this homestand as a way to sepa­rate ourselves from the pack," Irish point guard Jimmy Dillon said. "We're in the middle of the pack and hopefully we can get to thfl top." 
Notre Dame is currently ranked 6th in the Rig East behind Miami and Hutgcrs. The Hurricanes are also fighting for position in the conference. They have won six of their last eight games and moved up to fourth place in the Big East. 
In its last outing, Miami posted a 62-54 victory over Boston College in which center Mario Bland scored a career-high 24 points. 
Bland. who is averaging 13.4 points per gamA and 7.5 rebounds per contest, reached the 1,000-career-point plateau with his effort. 
The Irish will have their hands full with Hurricane shooting guard Johnny Hemsley, who is averaging a team high 18.5 points per game, good enough to rank him 4th in Big East scor­ing. 
Forwards John Salmons and Elton Tyler have also played well for Miami this season. Tyler is a league leader in rebounds and blocks while Salmons is a league leader defensively. 
"We know they are athletic and well coached and they will come out and play hard," Dillon said. "We need to take advan­tage of our strengths and play hard as well. It should be a good Big East game and hopefully we'll get the win." 
As always, the Irish are led by Troy Murphy, who ranks third in the nation in scoring (24.4 points per game) and sixth in rebounding (10.5 per contest). 
• Murphy, however, got some support from his teammates in Saturday's 81-66 victory over Pittsburgh. Prior to the Pitt game. the Irish had dropped two straight, but they came out on fire against the Panthers, shooting more than 60-percent from the field and connecting on a school-record 14 3-pointers. 
Both Graves and Dillon have stepped up for the Irish. Graves is a league leader in scoring, assists and steals and Dillon leads in assists and steals. 
"On the road we struggled shooting the ball, but we like play­ing at home and we feel like we have an advantage," said Dillon, who is averaging just less than six assists per game. "Maybe its mental and we're comfortable in the environment, but shooting has definitely been one of our strengths this season." 
The Irish are 10-1 at home this season and lead the series with the Hurricanes, 6-4. Last season, Notre Dame knocked off Miami, 71-68, on the road. 
"Miami is a good team," Dillon said. "We just need to play our game and come out and play tough mentally and physically. If we do what is necessary, things should take care of themselves." 
This is the second in a four-game homestand. After facing the Hurricanes, the Irish look to more Big East competition. St. John's comes to the Joyce Center on Saturday and West Virginia follows on Wednesday night. 
Wildcats brought down by surprising Irish 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Saint Mary's Editor 
The Northwestern Wildcats crawled into Irish territory Friday evening ready to pounce on a win. 
They left with their tails between their legs. 
The No. 11 Northwestern team was confident it would leave the lri-meet against the 
No. 23 Irish and Rice University with a competitive but secure victory. 
The Wildcats didn't expect to encounter an lrish team that would sweep all three teams and boost its record to 9-0. 
Going into the meet, the Irish were ready to topple Northwestern's confidence. 
"On paper, we matched up well," said women's head coach Bailey Weathers. "Some of their swimmers were two or three tenths ahead of what we'd done, but we were matched well. We knew we had a chance." 

The Irish opened the meet \>\1th a quick start, capturing the 400 medley relay. The team of Kelly Becking, Shannon Suddarth, Elizabeth Barger and Carrie Nixon sprinted ahead of Northwestern in 3 minutes, 
48.27 seconds, grabbing the 
early lead. 
Falling behind after the 1650 freestyle and 200 freestyle, Notre Dame bounced hack with Hecking's backstroke win in 
56.65 over Northwestern's Dominique Diezi. 
Notre Dame and Northwestern traded leads for the next several events, swap­ping points throughout a 2-3-4 finish from Allison Lloyd, 
see SWIM/page 25 

vs. Miami at Alaska-Fairbanks vs. Oliver Tuesday, 7:30 p.m. Friday, 7:05 p.m, Saturday, 3 p. m.
SPORTS s 
Men's Swimming

ATA at Sr. John's tltl Fencing Oakland University Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. 't1I' vs. Penn State 
at Milwaukee 

Saturday & Sunday, All Day Saturday, 1 p.m.
GLANCE 







