
Gone Phishin' 
The debate continues 
Scene music critic Tim Bodony reviews_ last 
Two Notre Dame alumni explain why they feel 

Tuesday
weekend's double Phish concert in Chicago's 
The Observer's independence is a necessary 
Allstate Arena. 
and valuable asset to campus discussions. 
SEPTEMBER 26, 
scene . page 12 
Viewpoint . page 11 
2000 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 26 HTTP://OBSFRVFR.ND.FDU 
NEWS ANALYSIS 


Bush, Gore campaigns tainted with controversy 

Malloy: IOC drug tests don't catch all users 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Writer 
The Olympic Games need an independent committee to iden­tify athletes' abuse of perfor­mance-enhancing substances. s a i d University President F a t h e r See Also 
Edward "IOC stripsMallov, who 
is also the Ra!lucan o1 gohl chair of a alter positive commission 
drug test"

researching drug abuse page 22 in sporlS. 
"Thr pro­
"1980 Olypic

gressive number of boycott hits instances of 
home for Noire

detected substances Dame staff" has made 
Back page

the issue more rele­vant to the international com­munity." said Malloy. 
At the 2000 Olympic Games in Sydney. Australia, five athletes have tested positive for illegal substances to date; among them are three Bulgarian weightlifters, a Latvian rower, and most recentlv, Romanian gymnast Anclre(;a Raducan. Raduc1tn was stripped of her gold medal in the women's all­around competition Tuesday after testing positive for a banned substance contained in her cold medication. 
Although a World Anti-Doping Organization exists to make rec­ommendations to the International Olympic Committee. Malloy and the 14 other membf1rs on the commis­sion want an independent orga­nization with morr authority. 
The commission, under The National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse al Columbia University (CASA). fin­ished a 100-page report titled "Winning at Any Cost Doping in Olympic Sports" Sept. 8. The report, the first in a series of reports that will focus on athlet­
see MALLOY/page 8 By ERIN IARUFFA 
News Writer 
The word "RATS" recently flashed across American television screens, courtesy of the Republican Party. 
But no one is really sure if the word was intended to be there. Although the Republican National Committee (RNC) was actually for the ad, the campaign of GOP presi­dential candidate George W. Bush has faced numerous questions about it. 
In the commercial. the words "bureaucrats decide" appear on screen. intended to criticize Gore's prescription drug plan. However, in one frame, "RATS," part of "bureaucrats," appears on the screen. 
The word remains on screen for only one-thirtieth of a second, but it is the largest word to appear in the commercial. Critics suggested that the ad was an attempt to sub­liminally create a negative opinion of Gore. 
"Nobody does that accidentally," said Ted Mandell, a professor in Notre Dame's Film. Television and Theatre department. "{I am] 99 percent positive it was intention­al." 
Although the commercial's pro­ducer. Alex Castellanos. denies that the word was used intention­ally, Mandell explained that some­one would have had to type into a computer any word that appeared on the screen. 
"They probably watch~d that ad a million times ... Any editor worth his weight would have picked it up immediately," Mandell said. "That would make me think that they were aware ofit." 
However, Mandell added that it is possible that neither the RNC nor the Bush campaign staff were aware that the word appeared. 
The tape would have gone through many hands. Mandell explained. and therefore someone else could have inserted it. He pointed out that animators have inserted single-celled frames into Disney movies as jokes the compa­ny itself never wanted in the film. 
Although the ad reflects nega­tively on the Bush campaign. most Americans will merelv dismiss it as part of politics, expiained Notre Dame government professor Benjamin Radcliff. As a result, if Bush loses, no one will look back at the ad controversy as the "defining moment" that cost Bush the election, Radcliff said. 
Negative ads are not new in political campaigns, though. 
see ELECTION/page 4 
CLC 

Members discuss GALA's complaints 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News. Writer 
Faculty Senate professor Edward Manier spoke on behalf of the unrecognized group, the Gav and Lesbian Alumni-Notre Dame/ Saint Marv's /GALA). at Monday's Campu'.5 Life Council meeting where members dis­cussed whether recent com­plaints from GALA are appro­priate issues for council discus­sion. 
'Tm the dosest thing they've got to a voice on this body," said Manier, who told the CLC that members of GALA felt inconve­nienced last Saturday when they had to switch locations for their Michigan State game watch gathering. 
"A couple things happened that left that group feeling less than welcome," said Manier. 
Initially. a representative of GALA wrote vice president of student affairs Bill Kirk request­ing to hold a gathering in the Reeker's Hospitality Room and serve alcohol. 


"That is not an area that we normally approve for the use of alcohol." Kirk said. 
Kirk shared with the CLC the letter he wrote in response to the GALA member. which said, "I regret that I am unable to provide approval for this event to include the service or pres­ence of alcohol given its timing and proximity to student social 
see CLC/page 8 


page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, September 26, 2000 
"The ND social scene, "J was thinking it was "Evolution is godless "There are people I soon figured out, going to be a happy in the same way around us who are consists ofgetting bus trip home." plumbing is godless." guardian angels. " 
plastered and hooking up." Anthony Weaver Robert Pennock Kevin Clary Notre Dame defensive end visiting speaker on 15-year old cancer survivor after the loss to creationism, evolution on Bob Davie after his
Mike Marchand Michigan State special invitation to a
Senior Notre Dame student football luncheon and game
on gender relations 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Duke researches effects of sleep deprivation 
DURHAM. N.C.  sleep. Although Wohlgemuth acknowl­ 
Most people know that drinking sev­ edged that the biological need for sleep  
eral drinks and then driving is danger­ varies from person to person, he said  
ous, but few realize that a lack or  the average person needs about eight  
sl.eep. especially when combined with  hours of rest each day.  
only one serving of alcohol. can make  But advances in modern technology  
driving just as unsafe.  combined with the skewed schedule of  
According to the National Institutes  college life often forces student,;, far.ul­ 
of Health and the National Highway  ty and employees alike Lo skimp on  
Traffic Safety Administration. roughly  sleep.  
56,000 crashes occur each year due to  Many turn to drugs to help counter  
driver fatigue. and 1,550 fatalities  these popular habits' effects, but  
result from these accident<,.  Wohlgemuth cautions against employ- 
Sleeping less than approximately  ing such methods.  ·  
eight hours each night, combined with  deprived has the same effect as driving  "Some drugs. such as Ny-Qui!, con­ 
as little as one alcoholic beverage. has  with a blood alcohol level of .05, said  tain alcohol, which will help relieve  
a compounding effect -meaning that  Dr. Bill Wohlgemuth of the Duke  anxiety and allow you to fall asleep,  
the effects of the two separate condi­ University Medical Center Sleep  but once the alcohol leaves your sys­ 
tions together can severely increase  Disorders Clinic.  tem, your body will over-compensate  
the risk of causing an accident. In fact. driving while partially sleep  Medical experts define sleep depri­vation as simply not getting enough  and you'll fall into a lighter-than-nor­mal sleep," he said.  

~ 
.................. 
COL.D WARM STATIONARY 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Driver's License Blues 
Okay, so maybe our 21st r.entury. digitized. yuppificd, surburbanizcd, peanut-buttery soci­ety has lost most of the hardcore coming-of-age rituals of old My mom never told me to sit in the woods until I saw visions. My dad never made me kill a bear. I never walked across hot coals in order to symbolically achieve manhood All I had lo do was sign up for the draft -and pass Lhe dri­ver's test. 
That test has always embodied a sense of inde­pendence for me. Sure, as a kid I didn't always ask my parents for a ride when I had to get out of the house. SometimPs I'd grab my bike and a couple friends and just go. We'd sweat under the hot sun. burn off a few hundred calories. get surn­burnt and love thf! freedom of it all. But where would all that work get us? To K-Mart. Or, if we were feeling really adventurous, to Super Wal-Mart. But, with a car you ran go some­where. 
And so. I had to get my license. 
I was 15 for longer than I've been any age. The number of friends who were on an even rank with me ,the bicyclers) was rapidly dimin­ishing. Cruel biology had popped me out of the womb in mid-summer. making me younger than the rest of my class and one of the last to obtain a license to drive. 
And then it r.ame. the moment I had so antici­pated. With trembling limbs. I packed myself. my·mom and the buttr.rf1ies in my stomach into the car and went to the Department of Motor Vehiclr.s. 
Everyone there was intimidating. To me, the officers represP.nted pierced. painted tribesmen whose holy duty was to oppose my transition into manhood. The test became a svmbolic bat­tle reenacted as it had been reenac"ted by gen­erations of my f'orefathers since Ford first pro­duced the Model-T. A cleansing, spiritual bout was looming betwnen me and one of these tribesmen -and I was scared silly. 
As I strapped in next to my guide and enemy, I felt a surge of' excitement mixed with fear. The consequences of failure would be as disas­trous as the consequences of sucr.ess would be miraculous. My friends would laugh at me and l would rnmain grounded at home. I clenched my fists around the wheel and started the engine. 
As it turned out. I failed the test the first time. I parked in a handicap parking place upon return to the DMV. The failure was r.rushing at the time and it postponed my passage. But soon after. I won the battle. my independence and my manhood. 
Now looking hack, I can more fully appreciate the explosion of transitions that the driving test touched off. Life for me is still a process of sep­arating from my parents' authority and estab­lishing my individual ego. Each step is a scary one. but I build confidence each time I succeed. I'm r.onvincing myselfl can do it-I can sur­vive on my own. 
The first step was passing through the dri­ving-test ritual. shedding my youthful depen­dence on rides. That's when I proved to myself I could do it. and that it's safe to grow up. 
The views expressed in the Inside Colu.mn are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Maureen Smithe Sam Derheimer Kiflin Turner Chris Scott Finn Pressly Graphics 
Sports Dana Mangnuson 
Molly McVoy Production Viewpoint Kerry Smith Kurt Rogaard Lab Tech 
Liz Lang 
The Observe, (USPS 599 2-4000] i, pulili,hcd Mond.,y duou~h F,id.,y exccpf during cx:lm ,Uh.I V'.trnrion periods. TJ1(' Observer is ;:a member ofrht­Associ,uC"d PrC'u. All rcpr0<.lucnun ri~lus .1.r~ reserved. 

QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY 
Students react to required lectures 
SYRACUSE. N.Y. 
As the university prepares to host Nobel Pear.e Prize winner, writer and Holocaust survivor Elie Wiesel on Wednesday, some Syracuse University freshmen find the event more of an inr.onvenience than an educational experience. "Students should never be mandated to lis­ten to speakers," freshman David Perlman said. "Being made to listen to a lecturer takes the decision out of the students' hands and this should not be the policy of the university." Wiesel will discuss his experience surviving the horrors of a Nazi concentration camp. Perlman said students who are forced to attend the lecture will not get the same experience as those who attend out of interest. The university sponsors a speaker each year as part of the freshman required curriculum. The program also requires first-year students to participate in a weekly discussion group with their peers that addresses societal issues. The groups are organized by college faculty members. who will attend Wiesel's speech with their students. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Foi:eauit l<xtliffitl"er !'ore:ast far d,ytirre a:n:litims arrl higo l:al];:eraturEs  
H L Tuesday {) 69 49 Wednesday ~62 40 Thursday ~ 58 43 Friday ~64 46 Saturday ~ 66 48 '-'''\.  

UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA 

Nader's speech gets record crowd 
MINNEAPOLIS 
Conventional wisdom might prompt some voters to write off Green Party Presidential candidate Ralph Nader almost immediately. As a third-party candidate who accepts no corporate campaign finances and speaks about "corporate extremists'; dominating thfl government, Nader's political views could be viewed by some as the most left-wing stances American presiden­tial politics has ever seen. Yet to the more than 12,000 who attended the speech last Friday, Nader's message resonated as a viable alternative to the Republican and Democratic parties. "They are parties of slogans ­they don't say what they mean and don't mean what they say," Nader said. Nader officials, who said the event was the largest presidential rally in U.S. history, charged $7 per person. The large turnout helped the Green Party raise more than $110,000, gave Nader an international audience via C-SPAN and lent credibility to an insurgent r.ampaign which many predict is doomed to defeat. 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Sept. 26. 
6 s 
FRONTS: 
0 2000 AceuWeathar, Inc, 
Pl'flautl: 

® © D D D D D D 
High Low Showers llalo r-,torm• FlurrHt• Sna~ lco Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Atlanta 70 53 Las Vegas 91 68 Portland 82 50 Baltimore 60 50 Memphis 73 57 Sacramento 88 55 
Boston 53 48 Milwaukee 70 50 St. Louis 73 53

q_Q_Q_9"~Q (f ~ 6 
Chicago 72 51 New York 60 50 Tampa 85 69 
Showers T-storms Rain f/u"ies Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Clovdy 
Houston 78 58 Philadelphia 61 52 Washington DC 60 53 
Via AS!:OCftiled Press GrapfJ~Ner 
' 
Tuesday, September 26, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
NEWS IN BRIEF 

ND offers choice of voice Illail 
Tlw post-gradual!' S<'rvicn f'air will take place today from 6 to 9 p.m. al St<:pan Cnnl<'r. Numerous service opporlunilios will br included al tlw fair. including teaching, intornation­aL non·-!"ht1rd1 r<'l.tL<'d and domestic, fait]:i-busecl programs. 
l!ighty prngrams will br reprcsnnL0d, including the Alliancn 
l'or Catholi!' l•:ducation {ACL!I. the Peac1\ Corps. AmnricorpsNisLa and Boys !lope/Girls Hope. Seniors intnr­estnd in doing snrvic1' aftPr graduation arn Pncouragnd to 
atl<'nd. Tlw s,,nior Transition Program within the Cnntcr f'or Social Concnrns is sponsoring the nvnnt. 
2000-2001 Season Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 




oodnight 
(j)~ 


(Good Morning 
;)dud) 
by Anne-Marie MacDonald 
A comedy of alchemic proportions 
Directed by Wendy Arons 

Wednesday, Oct. 4 ...... 7:30 pm Thursday, Oct. 5 .......... 7:30 pm Friday, Oct. 6 .............. 7:30 pm Saturday, Oct. 7 .......... 7:30 pm Sunday, October 8 ......2:30 pm 
Playing at Washington Hall Reserved Seats $9 • Seniors $8 • Students $6 Tickets are available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. For MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631-8128 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
News Wrirer 
Students who are dissatisfied with Notre Dame's new voice mail system now have the power lo choose.­
Lac;l year, each phone number had one voice mailbox and one pass code. During the summer. thn system was changed to give each student his or her own mailbox. /\crording to hnlp desk supenisor_ Paulette Podlcsak. the option to rnvnrt to last ynar's system is in responsn to stud11nt roquests. 
"Th<' idea was to o[for all stu­dents individual mailboxes for privacy masons. /\!so. there were somo problems in the past whern some individuals didn't gi:1t tlwir own nrnssages !because their roommate had alrnady checked the message!." Podlesak said. 
Arter the phone number rnvorts to one shaned mailbox svstf'm, tlrn rnctor and an v other group that uses the voi~email svstem to send mass nrnssagPs t~, users on a listserv must updat<' their phone list to reflect tlrn rrnw drnnges in the mailbox system. II' this is not clone, stu­dents will not recnive broadca:-;t messages. 

"lt is important that the rec­tors are involved. A messagn can't go to a mailbox that doesn't exist," said Lelernmmu­nirations manager Stnve Ellis. 
Students. faculty and staff cite several concerns about the new system. After hearing a student's message on the old system, !'ac­uity and staff could push a key to n'cord a reply that would be senl to the room's mailbox with­out having to make a separale call. Now that then' is no unified mailbox for the room, and facul­ty and staff who want to reply to a ,message must disconnect from the voice mail systPm and call back the number. 
"It's more difficult to respond to messages. I have to call thr, room. wah for the voicemail to pick up. push a button for tlrn prrson, and tlwn leavo a mes­sage," said Keenan Ilall rector Gary Chamberland. 
The new system was a source of frustration for junior Brian Pawloski and his roommato. 
"We didn't lind any purpose in having two boxes. If there's one mailbox, we can cher,k it and havn it done with. Tlw new sys­tem seemed to be morn compli-



Please recycle 
The Observer...·. 
cated," said Pawloski. 
Others find that the advan­tages of the syst1;m outweigh the problems. 
"I think it's better. You can't accuse your roommate of not giving you the message. When you get a silent message, the light keeps flashing until your roommate checks their box, but other than that. it's great," said sophomore Marissa C:ongemi. 
With thn current system, callers SPlnct whom to leave a message for. Broadcast mes­sages arc sent to each mailbox. 
"It's much more convenient, each person gets the message. More than anything, though, the system gets overused," Chamberland said. 
According to Ellis, since a rela­tively small numbPr of students have requested to be returned to last year's setup, the multiple voice mailbox system will likely he usPd again next year. 
"There have not been a large number ol' calls. I don't antici­pate a change, but who's to say what will happen." Ellis said. 
Students who want tu change their voiu\ mail system should call the Telecommunications I Jelp Desk at 1-9000. 
CORRECTION 
The photo that ran on page 3 in Monday's paper misidentified Dorothy Feigel as Constanrn Biegel. 
The Observer regrets the error. 


.EVENTS 1a1s·w_EEK: =100,1110 11108S: ACOUSTICAFE. 9P.i.. F:GODFATIEl PART·H· MIDNIGHT IN LAFOBTUN!-S: GODFATIER, PAIT Ill 
' IIDIIIS111101 AHU 155 DlBlllT.
BURS, fRI, &SATI _ . . BUBS IMlltO;RlnHDSIT l1BOURN TO 8l811111t.30.9Kll$2 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 Tuesday, September 26, 2000 
your message] you're fighting a not particularly competent." Gore had a mole working inside dealing" with a diflicult situation. much more dillicult battle." As a result. some voters who Bush's campaign. Gore denied the incident reflects well on the
Election 

Campaigns must thon "move agree with Bush on certain Ooyne's claim and said his cam­Gore campaign, according to the agenda over to the issues you issues may be less likely to vote paign does not have access to Pierce.
continued from page I 

really want to talk" about, Pierce for him because they will fear he any secret Bush campaign infor­In this week's Newsweek poll. 
"Hepublicans have been run­said. "The way in which it might is incompetent, according to mation. Gore has also said that Gore lnads Bush 46 to 43 percent ning negative campaigns at least have an impact is in an accumu­Pierce. his campaign staff would turn among registered voters. since (George W.I Bush's father," lation of' imidents." The Bush campaign also over to the PBI any material it However, a CNN/USA said H,tdcliff. In othPr words, if' mistakes pile appears to have made a tactical received, as Downey did when he Today/Gallup poll shows Bush 
Just as the "bureaucrats" ad is up, the sum of those errors could maneuver in respect to Florida. received the videotape of Bush's leading Gore 47 to 46 peromt, a not unique as an attack ad. it is negatively impact a campaign. the winner of which rrceives 25 debate preparation. .statistical dead heat given thn noilher unique as a campaign Such mistakes reflect on a can­electoral votes. The Bush campaign claims that poll's margin of error. slip-up. In fart: l3ush has n'rnntly didatr's "personal traitc,," Pierce Bush apparently has a "false only senior m<1mbers of th<1 staff Of' course, the Gore campaign faced nth er controversies explained. lie added that such sense of security" in Florida, had access to the materials. The has had its share of mistakes as bncm1se of errors hn or his cam­traits am often I.he most impor­where Bush's brother Jcb is gov­Gore campaign gave the package well. pait{n made. tant factor to voifirs -even more ernor. Pierce explained. The -v\'hich was postmarked in Critics have recently com­
For example. at a campaign important than issues such as the Bush campaign thought Bush Austin, Texas -to the FBI aftr,r plained of embellishments Gore stop a fpw wePks ago, thinking economy. Therefore, repeated would easily win Florida. accord­receiving it on Sept. 13. The PBI has made in spneches. including he was speaking privatdy to vice mistakes, which can lead voters ing to Pierce, but rer,ent polls is now investigating the incident. one involving thn price of' pro­prr1sidrntial running matP Dkk to view the candidate as incom­indicate a near dead heat If Downey had not turned ovr,r scription drugs. Chcm11y, Bush referred to a New petent. are potentially damaging. between Gore and Bush in the the tape, the incident could have Pierce believes Gore's t<mdency York Times reporter as an "a-­13ush has also be<,n plagued by state. led to a "mini-scandal," accord­to rxaggerate c11rtain !'acts has holn." his tendency to mispronounce "It's a partkularly embarrass­ing to Radcliff. If' the public found declined, however. sine!' the 
Unbeknownst to Hush and words, to use improper grammar ing situation when you're broth­out that the Gore campaign had bnginning of' the campaign. ClrnnPy, the microphone they and to use malapropisms. Pierce er's the governor," said Pierce. watched the video. it would have "I think that he's probably were standing nPar was still on, and lfaddiff agrerd that these He explained that campaigns looked as though the vic0, presi­lcarnnd from some of his early and p<iople in the audiPncP heard mL<,takes could hurt Bush at the make strategic decisions to dent had an unfair advantage in statements," Pierce said. "It's the cnmnwnt. polls. ignore some states -either the debates. been mostly the stuff of late-night 
DnspitP th1' f'act that· Bush "Bush is SPfln to havf' a pnrson­bncause the candidate will clear­BPcausn Downey chosn an talk show hosts." recnivPd negative mt!dia atti~n­ality advantage [but is] thought to Iv win or clearlv lose -in order "incredibly conscientious way of tion due to the incident, it proba­be a lightweight," HadcliJf said. t~J allow them to focus on states bly will not have a significant Thereforn, whenever he mispro­bnlinved to be marginal. impact on the nlection. according nounces a word, he "reinforces "l think they screwed up in the 
to Hadcliff. public doubt" about his ability to sense of not having been on the llowevcr. thr~ problem with be president. ball," said Hadcliff, adding that surh rnntrovrrsies is that thry Con', on the other hand, has a he still believes Bush will carry 


21st 
get a candidatf' "off message." murh different public persona. Florida. Hadclill' added. The media covers "Gorp is thought to be hard­Yet another problem challeng­th!' slip-ups that rwgatiwly ,dfod working and rrally bright, but ing the Bush campaign recrntly a campaign, thrrnforn detracting stiff." Baddiff said. For that ma­involves a possible internal infor­attrntion from a candidate's son. mispronouncing a word mation leak. Tom Downey, a for­main message. would be unlikely to affect how mer Congressman who has been ThP nm,d to "stay on nwssagc" vot<>rs view him. helping Gore prepare for the 
is a challenge all campaigns must As a rnsult. Bush's frequent upcoming. presidential debates. face, according to Saint Mary's verbal slips arc "one of the things received a videotape and other politir.al sciencP professor Patrick to watch in the debates," Pierce material related to Bush's debate 
Pierce. said. rehearsal. "You want to control the agen­"Al Gore is an aggressive On Saturday, Gore ollicials sus­da of' the campaign." he said. "If' debater. lie absolutely will pended Michael Doyne. an assis­you're continuously having tci pounce on Bush," Piercr said. tant to the campaign's field 
Girls respond to rharges that !'ither "The nwdia is tlrnn going to por­director. According to an ABC­harm you or am unrelated Ito tray Bush in the debates as being NEWS source, Doyne stated that 
tN, 
(' I lit I I• J O a 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 

POST-GRADUATE SERVICE FAIR 
Wednesday, September 27, 2000 
ffl 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS


6:00 -9:00 p.m. at Stepan Center 
Representatives from the following organizations will be present at this year's Post-Graduate Service Fair. The Center for Social Concerns would like to thank them for their continued recruitment, training and support of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College students who wish to commit to a year or more of full-time service after graduation. We appreciate the partnerships with these organizations and our collaborative work towards the creation of a more just and humane world. 
International Pro1:rams  
Fann of the Child  Peace Corps  
Hogar San Jose  The Hatian Project  
Maryknoll Lay Missioners  Volunteer Missionary Movement  
Maryknoll -China  Wilson Foundation  

Proa=ram with International and Domestic Sites 
A.L.I.V.E. Assoc. Missionaries/ The Assumption Cabrini Mission Corps Cap Corps Midwest Christian Brothers Vol. Program 
Non-Church Related Proerams 
Americorps/ VISTA Bread for the World Peace Corps 
Teachin& Pro2rams 
Alliance for Catholic Education Inner-City Teaching Corps New Orleans Service Community New York Teacher Vol. Program Holy Cross Associates Jesuit Volunteer Corps Mercy Corps Quest Xaverian Brothers Vol. Corps 

Public Allies Rapid Response Corps/ Americorps Teach for America 
Red Cloud Volunteers Response-Ability St. Ignatius Loyola Academy Teach for America 
Domestic, Faith-Based Pro1:rams 
Agnesians in Mission Amate House Andre House -Phoenix Andre House of California Apostolic Volunteers 
Augustinian Volunteers Bon Secours Vol. Ministry Program Boys Hope/ Girls Hope Capuchin Franciscan Vol Corps-East Capuchin Youth & Family Ministries Catholic Network of Vol. Services Catholic Charities -Project Serve Catholic Charities Vol. Corps Catholic Volunteers in Florida Christian Appalachian Project Claretian Vols. & Lay Missionaries Colorado Vincentian Volunteers Congregation of Holy Cross Dale House Project Edmundite Missions Corps Franciscan Outreach Assoc Franciscan Volunteer Ministry The Franciscan Volunteer Program Franciscorps 

Gateway Vincentian Volunteers Good Shepherd Volunteers Humility of Mary Service 
I.H.M. Volunteer Program Intercommunity Ministry Vol. Program L'Arche Mobile, Inc.-Central Lutheran Volunteer Corps KNOM -Alaska Radio Mission Marist Volunteers Milvale Franciscans -Change a Heart Missionary Cenacle Volunteers Nazareth Farm NET Ministries Passionist Lay Missioners Providence Volunteer Ministries Providence Volunteer Ministry Redeemer Ministry Corps S.A.L.T. Samaritan Inns Share Fdn. with the Handicapped St. Anthony's Residence VESS Vincentian Service Corps-Central Vincentian Service Corps-East 






ATION 
Tuesday, September 26, 2000 (0MPil.ED FROM THE OnSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Iraq warns Kuwait, Saudi Arabia: 
President Saddam Hussein on Monday issued a stPrn warning against Saudi Arabia and Kuwait to stop provoking Iraq by offering logistical support to the United States and Britain. Saddam accused the Saudi and Kuwaiti governmrnts of rushing the pPople of Iraq into a confrontation. "But if things come to a head." then Iraq knows how to confront them, he said. Addressing a hurriedly con­vcnNI news conference nearly two hours ctftcr Saddam\; comments were carried by the offi­cial Iraqi News Agency, Information Minister 
llumam Abdel-Khaliq said Iraq had no inten­tion to attack Kuwait or Saudi Arabia. "Tim president's talk contains no threat and I assure you that we have no intention of taking 
military acLion against Kuwait or any other 
statn." he said. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
One wounded in school shooting: A 
17-year-old boy was wounded in the ankle Monday in an apparent drive-by shooting out­side a suburban Seattle high school. polke said. SPveral_students from Federal Way High School had already left for the day wlrnn the shooting occurred about 2:15 p.m. Police asked the high school and a nearby junior high school to keep the remaining students locked inside for about 45 minutes while they searched for a car described by witnesses. 
Senates approves Everglades plan: 
The Senate gave overwhelming approval Monday to what lawmakers called tho largest environmental restoration project in history ­a $7.8 billion effort expected to take three decades to rescue the florida Everglades. The legislation, which must still be taken up by the House. calls for a massive federal construction project to restore the historic water flows through the 300-mile Everglades ecosystem. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Prisoners released by mistake: 
Two men released early from the St. Joseph County Jail in South Bend were back in cus­tody last-week, after an investigation into jail computer records revealed the errors. Police were investigating jail records after discov­ering another inmate -Phillip A. Stroud ­had been released from jail July 15 without a judge's authori-zation. Stroud, 21. is charged in the execution-style killings of three construction workers Sept. 14 near Lakeville. He was arrested two days after the murders. 
Market Watch 9!25 

Dow 
10,808. I 5 -39.22 

]ONES 
CompositeUp: Sarne: Volume:
l.338 473 1,172,199,936 
AMEX: 929.01 +0.93 Nasdaq: 3741.22 -62.54 NYSE: 659'.48 S&P 500: 1439.03 -9.69 
• 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN !'RICE INTEl.CORP!INTCI _,_34 4S._l8
-2 '~ CISCO SYSTEMS ,CSCO) -S.18 -J.12 57.1 ') 
I IUCSSON IM-AllR (EI\ICYI ~'! ()(l ~0.(11) 16,(): WORDI.COM INC (WCOM) -14.l -IUH 26.12 LUCENT TECH INC {l.Ul -4.HII .(5'; J0.88 
PERU 


Associated Press 
PANAMA CITY, Panama 
Panamanian leaders allowed Peru's ousted spy chief to enter the country after being told Peru's mil­itary was on t h e verge 
0 f 
launch­ing a coup if' 
h e 
were turned away, the foreign minister said Monday. 
"Information we received from various presidents and foreign ministers (from Latin America) was that if Panama didn't accede, there would be a military coup Sunday in Peru," Jose Miguel Aleman told a news conference. 


"We have reports that Peruvian troops stationed at border posts were mov­ing toward Lima at dawn on Sunday," he said, before meeting with President Mireya Moscoso to decide on asylum for Vladimiro Montesinos. 
Moscoso has come under strong pressure from Latin American leaders and the Organization of American States, backed by the United States, to grant the asylum in order to allow Peru to extricate itself from its political crisis. 
Opposition leaders in Peru were demanding the arrest and prosecution of Montesinos, a powerful Fujimori aide, over a bribery scandal, but there were fears that any move against him would bring retribution from the offi­cers Montesinos · has placed in top spots in the military. 
Although Panama refused to take him in Saturday, Montesinos arrived in the country around dawn Sunday. 
Aleman said Montesinos' apparent strength per­suaded Panama to recon­sider its refusal. Aleman said the fact that many believe Montesinos' depar­ture was the only way to consolidate democracy in Peru "is an indication that he was the de facto leader in Peru." 
"Within that context we are reevaluating the initial refusal to grant him asy­lum," he said. 
The bribery scandal prompted a surprise announcement from Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori on Sept. 16 that he would hold new elec­tions in which he would not be a candidate. Fujimori also pledged to dismantle the intelligence service that he had head­ed. 

Crackdown alienates top scientists 
after the computer hard drives mys­said. 
Associated Press 

teriously reappeared. Los Alamos officials fired Lee last WASHINGTON Energy Secretary Bill Richardson year and he was later indicted on The security crackdown at the Los appointed former Rep. Lee 59 federal felonies for improperly Alamos National Laboratory in Now Hamilton, 0-Ind., and former Sen. transferring nuclear secrets to Mexico is instead alienating top sci­Howard Baker, R-Tenn., to study portable computer tapes. Lee plead­entists and worsening the situation, the causes of the latest security ed guilty to one count earlier this according to a report by two former lapse at the New Mexico weapons month and was set free; the judge in congressmen appointed by the lab. the case apologized to Lee and E1wrgy Department. "Once ... laboratory employees blamed "top decision-makers in the 
ThP report. released Monday, said fear that committing a security executive branch" for his detention. the demoralization of Los Alamos error may expose them not just to The case against Lee stemmed workers in tlrn wake or the Wen Ho management discipline, but to pros­from an investigation of possible Lee case probably contributed to the ecution and imprisonment, any hope Chinese espionage at Los Alamos, l"ailure to report missing nuclear that individuals will volunteer infor­but the Taiwan-born Lee denied data earlier this year -as well as mation that could reflect security spying and was never charged with lal.J scientists' tightlipped responses lapses is annihilated," the report espionage. 
page 6 The O!Herver . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September 26, 2000 

BEST MUSICAL 1996 TONY1 AWARD 1996 PULITZER PRIZE 

l THREE PERFORM~NCES ONLY! OCTOBER 3-5 
MORRI9 PERFORMING ~RTS CENTER 
Fro• the front page of THE NEW YORK TIME9 to the cover of NEW9WEEK, fr011 its Pulitzer Prize to its sweep of the 1996 Tonye '1wards, Jonathan Larson's 111U1ioa1 has been hailed as •a raw and riveting 
•1lestone in lllU.Sioal theaterr• by ROLLING 9TONE. 
STUDENTS S~VE 
•15 
219.245.6085 

•UNITED 


Broadway Theatre League
AIRLINES 

Not Talid with any other discount or pro•otional offer or on preTiously purchased tickets, Subject to aTailability. Not Talid on ,20 seats sold l hr before curtain, Valid only with student ID. 
Tuesday, September 26, 2000 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Mora: Diversity in U.S. a benefit 
By KATIE MILLER News Writer 
Author Pat Mora challenged Saint Mary's to realize the importance of diversity in their lives in a Monday lecturfl. 
Mora's stories and memoirs from her life as a second-gener­ati on Texan living in El Paso, Texas are her inspiration. 
"Writers are constantly col­lecting ideas: I call ideas kept on .my desk my compost. The joy of being a writer is that everything that happens to you is writing 
matflrial," said Mora. 
After her l'ather's death. Mora began to write her memoirs. She shanid a passage with the audience that illustrated the move her l'amilv was forced to 
make  from  Ei  Paso  to  Los  
Angeles when h er fat her  was  
out of work.  

"I had all of' this rich material lo work with; it is how you shap(' thP material aftr.r you have it. My sister prayed to St. Raphad The relationship with saints and statues is an impor­tant part of culture from the ers," she said. 
Texan border," said Mora. Mora read one of her poems Mora advocates a multkultur­that told the story of a Mexican­al education. American women who was not "There is so accepted by much diversity American
"People who form diverse
in the course of s _o c i e t y professional relationships in college because her life. People accent and
will survive in the 
who form culture
diverse environment." 
diverse rela­were differ­tionships in ent. college will "Whv arc
Pat Mora 
survive in the we con1fort­
author
diverse envi­ronment. Dare to reach out to people not like you. We can always learn from others,'' said Mora. 
Grovving up. Mora somPt.imes felt different than others. 
"Sometimes it is diffi<:ult to articulate, but I knew I came from a Mexican. bilingual fami­ly. Everyone has felt a sense of difference," she said. 
Mora encouraged students of Saint Mary's to reach out tooth­ers. 
"We focus more on what makes us comfortable, not oth­
ab Ie when 
this situa­
tion occurs? Why does this not upset us?" asked Mora. 
Mora used Dallas as an exam­ple. where 96 languages are used in schools. She asked the audience if the United States will see this diversity as an advantage or a disadvantage. 
Pat Mora is an author of poet­ry, nonfiction. and children's books. She advocates building the community through litcraey. "My Own True ;'\Jame: New and Seleeted Poems for Young Adults" is her most recent book. 

Students collaborate to plan 24-hour dance 
amount of money to be a

By MYRA McGRIFF 
dancer," says Page, adding

News Writer 
that the amount each person 
must raise has not yet been 

Notre Dame and Saint set. Mary's students may come The committee also aims at together next April for a 24-giving dancers a good time. hour dance-a-thon to benefit "We're going to have themes children liv-throughouting with can­the 24­
e e "We can donate the hours to
r Organizers make it
funds to help families 
are actively interesting.
seeking out with their medical 
We want to committee expenses or send some get dance members to instructors
kids to cancer camps all
aid in plan­to come in 
across America."
ning. and teach "Right now swing and 
we are look­Cori Page salsa," says ing for Saint Page. "We
Saint Mary's dance-a-thon
Mary's and are also Notre Dame committee chair going
students to sign up to fill seven committee chairs and member positions," said Cori Page, committee chair from Saint Mary's. 
The dance committee posi­tions range from financial and marketing jobs to entertain­ment and public relations. 
Aside from committee mem­bers, danr.e-a-thon organizers need dancers to dance nonstop for one full day. 
"[The contest! lasts for 24­hours and there is absolutelv no sitting," says Stacy Anderson, eommittee chair for Saint Mary's. 
Dance rules require only one thing of dancers: substantial financial support. 
"They have to raise a certain to 
work with 
other spon­sors to have grab bags through out the night." 
According to Page and Anderson, the real reward comes from the proceeds the dance-a-thon board hopes to raise. Working with Memorial and Saint Joseph Hospital's oncology units. the two formu­lated two wavs to distribute the proceeds. · 
"Our options are still open," said Page. "We can donate the funds to help families with their medical expenses or send some kids to cancer camps all across America." 
To sign up for any position or to get more information e­mail the board at danceftk@hotmail.com. 



Thursday, September 28, 2000 8 pm, Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Tickers Required: $3 students • $6 sc,niors • $8 ND/SMC employees • $1 ogeneral admission Ttclcccs available ac che Lafonune Box Office, (219) 631-8128 
Master Class: Thurs., Sept. 28, 3 pm, Hcsburgh Library Faculcy Lounge (The master class i.s lttc and open to the public) 
For complecc informacion, visit hnp://www.nd.edu/-congoers or call (219) 631-6201 
page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 26, 2000 
CLC 
continued from page l 
areas, which we expect to be alcohol-free. The event would be permissible without the ser­vice of akohol." 
Kirk said that he sug­
ing board for complaints," said St. Edward's Hall rector Father Dave Scheidler. 
Soon after Kirk and others expressed similar opinions, Manier said that he wanted to bring the issue to the CLC for discussion but he doesn't think it's a "matter that calls for 
action from 
the CLC." 

gested that the "/ don't think it·s 
In other

alumni contact 
appropriate for the CLC 
CLC News:

Catering By 
to serve as a sounding

Design for an 
. 0 ff ­

alternato loca­board for complaints." 
campus

l ion. but he 
senator Phil 

was not 
Father Dave Scheidler Dittmar

responsible for 
resigned
St. Edward's Hall rector

moving the 
group to the Monogram !loom in the JACC. where they ultimately had to hold their event. 
"I had nothing to do with moving any event anywhere," said Kirk. 
The primary point in Kirk's letter was that alrohol would bP. served in close proximity to studcnL'i, but he also warned in his letter that because GAU\ is not an organization recognized by the University, characteriz­ing their game watch as an event of an official University alumni organization could cause confusion. 
Although Kirk volunteered to explain the University's posi­tion on the GALA event after Manier criticized Kirk's letter to the GALA member, other members said that the status of the alumni group is not an issue for the Campus Life Council. 
"I don't think it's appropriate for the CLC to serve as a sound-
because of 
schedule 
conflicts with the CLC meeting and other academic commitments. Dittmar, who also served as the Fishf'r Hall senator representa­tive to the CLC, will be replaced on both the Student Senate and the Campus Life Council after today's election of a new off­campus senator. 
. The task force on Alcohol Use at Off-Campus Bars met and will research the off-cam­pus drinking habits of students. 
"We're certainly looking at the bars that are the most trou­blesome," said Pasquerilla East rector Sister Marv Ann Mueninghoff. She said that they aren't only going to look at the bars carding policies. but why students want to go to off-cam­pus bars. 
. The Service, Tenure and Promotion task force and the Disparity Between Male and Female Residence Halls task force plan to gather research on their respective topics. 
IOC 
continued from page I 

ic substance abuse. concluded that Olympic athletes are inade­quateIy tested and can easily mask the effect., of performance­enhancing substances. 
"Some [countries] don't test at all and some test haphazardly," said Malloy. 
Because the Olympic Committee does not require a standard method of testing in each country bP.fore they reach the games. athletPs can take performance-enhancing sub­stances until it is closer to the time of competition. Thero are several ways then for athletes tp hide the substances so that drug tests won't have positive results. 
"If they think they can beat the systf'm, some athletf's will," said Malloy. 
He said that even the U.S. Food and Drug Administration often approves substances that could provide athletes with an unfair advantage as a perfor­mance-enhancing drug. 
Malloy said an explanation for why athletes continue "duping," or using the performance­enhancing substances is because therfl is a "grfla.t pressure to win at all costs." 
"What we are trying to do is eliminate some of those situa­tions," said Malloy. 
In addition to the first report, Malloy said CASA plans to make similar comprehensive reports on substance abuse issues among high school. collegiate and professional athletes. Malloy said CASA's goals are to -0btain equal competition among ath­letes, learn the health risks of during an off-season even if they doping -including long-term stop before competition, it is nec­efleclc; -and compare the dop-essary to test aspiring ing habits of older athletes with Olympians. those ofyoung athletes. "This is testing for people who 
The Ci\SA report also suggest-· intend to continue to be partici­ed a "comprehensive out-of-pants in Olympic Sports," said competition testing," which Malloy. "It's a 12-month reali­would require Olympic athletes • ty." to take drug tests more often Malloy was selected as a com­than before and during the mission member by Joseph Olympic Garnes. Malloy said Califano, Jr., former secretary of that because athletes can still the Department of Health. gain an advantage by doping Education and Welfare. 
IJNWERSlTY OF NOTRE DAME 
INT1!:RNAnoN.U. STUDY PROGRAMS 
201 SECUIUT't IIUTLDING 
Notre Dunc., Indiana 4~56 T: 6JJ-588l Fax; 6J1...571J 
rf]ljr)~ 
)j ·. 


-----..__ 

TOLEDO, SPAIN 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Bridget Green, Assistant Director International Study Programs 
Wednesday September 27, 2000 
4:45 PM 129 DeBartolo 
NE'\¥!!!!!! ~,~ ~~ UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE ·»Al\'IE'S LONDON SUlVlMER PROGRAMME STARTING SUJ.\.i.Ilv.[E,R 2001 Four and a half-w-eeks for six hours of academic credit (M"ay 17 to June 17) INFORAfATION~EETING: Tuesday, October 3, 2000 7:00 Pl'v.l Location.: Center for Social Concerns Co:Cfee Lounge (Those interested in Sunz,ner 2002 are also invited) Or call 1-5203 (International Stu.dies Office) for an application and program information.  

Tuesday, September 26, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
page 9 


Something for 

every 

one of 

your 

9,000 tastebuds. 
Introducing the new 99C BK CRAVERS™ Menu. 
NEW MENU ITEMS 
• Finger Foods -Mozzarella Cheese Sticks 
r-1 

-JALAPENO POPPERS® 
VIEWPOINT 
page I 0 
THE OBSERVER 
l'.0. !lox Q. Noire l1,11m. IN 4M56 014 South llin1ng H.111, Norrc D.1111c. IN -1(~i)h 
EJ)JT0I! IN CIIIF.F Mike Connolly 
MANAGING Eurron  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Tim Lane  
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGFII  
C:hriscinr Kralv  Brian Kessler  

NEW~ EDITOR: Anne Marie Mauingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SroRTS EDITOR: Kerry Sm irl1 SCENE EIJIT0R: Amanda Greco SAINT MA1w's EDITOR: Molly McVoy PII0T0 EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: i'at Peters An DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEil ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Bob Woods GRAr!llCS EDITOR: Jose Cuell.1r 
CONTACT Us Ori'ICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0 .............. 6.,1-7471 fax.... .................................................6.\ J-6()27 AllVF.RTIS!NG.....................................65 l-6900/8840 
obsrrver@darwin.cc.nJ.,·,!t1 EDITOR IN CIIIEF........................................6.1 !-4~42 MANAGING EnrrnKIA.~sT.ME....................631-454 l 8USINFSS OFFICE..... . ..............6.11-53 iJ NEWS.... ......................................6J l -5J2J ohservcr.oh.rnews. l@nd.cd11 VIEWPOINT...............................................65 l -530J observer.viewpoi11 r. I@nd.cd u SroR1·s.. .......... .... .. . ......... .. .................631-4 54.3 observer.spons. l@nd.edu SCENE......................................................631-4 540 obscrver.scenc. l@nd.,·du SAINT MARY's.............................................6.'\ l-4J24 obscrver.smc. l@nJ.nlu PII0TO.....................................................6J l •87(,7 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................631-88.l'J 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web ,ice e11 lmp:lloh,eroer.!ld.ed11 for daily upda1cs ofcampus ntws. sports. features Jnd opinion rnlumn,. as wdl as cmo,m,. r,•views and breaking news from dw Associmed Press. 
SIIRF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-to-dtt: 
weekly studcnr r,-vicws
minute forecasts 
online feature! for spe­
advcMise for policies 
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer
archives to search lor 
ro mccr rhc edirors anti 
articles published .1frer 
sraff
August !?'J') 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the indcpcmkm, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNmre Dame du Lac and Sai111 M,uy's Colleg,·. Edimrial content. including e1dverriscmcms. i, not governed by poli,ics of the administration of either i1miru1ion. The Oh.st·rvcr reserves the right ro refosc advt:rtiscmcnts basi:d on conrenl. · 
The news is reported as Jccmatdy and objectively ,ts possible. Unsigned editorials rcprcscni the opinion of 1ht nu;orify of rhc Editor in Chief. Managing Editor. Assi.muu Managing Fdiror and dep:mment edimrs. Co111111cnraries, lt·ucrs :ind columns present the view, of the authors and not necessarily chose of The Observer. 
\'iewpninr .space is availahk· to all readers. The free cxpre.ssion oL,11 opinions through lctrers i, encouragl'd. Leners to rhe Editor must be signed and musr include concact information. 
Questiow reg,11·di11J!. Ob,crvnpol,de, ,hould h,• din•,·/· ed to Fditor in Chi,fMike Comlflily. 
-============================================================::'.:.=--~ 

~-=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--­
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
DOG\3,ERT CONSUL TS YOUR FOUNDERS WERE TWO BUMS 
YOU CAN RE.VIVE THE WHO BEGAN IN AENTREPR.E.NE.UR.IAL 
CARDBOARD BOX.
SPIIUT HERE BY REMINDING PEOPLE 
OF THE EARLY YEARS. 

ONE BUM MISDIALED HIS BOOKIE AND ACCIDENTALLY BOUGHT CISCO 
STOCK AT 
\THEIPO. 

O
THE BSERVER Tuesday, September 26, 2000 

As our lasl column noted. Llw Supreme Court has made aborlio11. including oven tlw killing 111' a 1rnrlially­<lelivon1d baby, a privilegnd l'.1111slilu­tional right. It is nasy to lw 1wssirnistic about this. But that would b11 a mistake. .John Paul II lias told us about one practi­cal and posit.iV!' thing we can do 011 tlrn lifn issue right hnro at Notre Danw. 
When lw spokc last Februarv on t.hc lirth an1{ivcrsary of' his encvclical, The Gospe(of l,{/c', llw Popn said "thnr1· is no reason for la/ ddeatest nwntality which claims tlrnt laws oppos<!d 111 llw right to life ... am ilwvitalll1• n11d now almost a srH'ial lH'C(issitv. ()11 1lw con­trary, they ,u·r• a snmJ oi' <·w-ru 11! ion f'or sodcty ... th1i civil and moral 1·1111­science cannot acnipl this 1·a1s1· inevitability, any more than 1lw id1!a that war or intcr-cithnic 1\>:IN111i11at.ion is innvitabln." lln callncl 011 youili to be "the first ag1•111s and lwrH'lki,ll'i1•s ... of' the aposlolall' 111' lil'o." 
But how docs one bcco1111• a11 "agnnt" of "thn aposl.ola I.I• of' lifo'?" I11 11 is homily closing Llw L000 \Vorlcl Y1111tl1 llii~·. atlnnded hy two million yo1111g IH'11plt!, John Paul o(fornd an ans\\ ,•r. 11,· urgnd thnrn "to clwngn dirnctio11 and 111 turn to Christ." "l)<)ar l'rinnds, wlt1·11 .rnu go back homn, snf. thr. Eucharist ,1 l tll(\ cnnter or your 1wrsonal Iii',: «111d com­munity lil'P. l.ovc tlic Eucllil risl, iidorn the Eucharist and cnlobrat1• ii. 1:s1wcial­ly on Sundays, Uw Loni's dn.1·. l.ivn the Eucharist by tnstil'ying to Cori's lovn /'or overy person." 1\ continuing tli,•1111· with John Paul, as h1• put it lo 1111• I1J 1J:: Eucharistir Co11grcss, is his lwli,·J' 1lrnl "t!w ... surnsl ,ind tiw mos! d'k·rliv11 


way of establishing poac11 on the face ol' the earth is through the grnat power of Perpetual Adoration of' the Blessed Sacrament." 
Which brings us back io Notre Dame. Many good things happen at Notrn Dame from the bottom up. Students in ND/SMC Right to Life, with llw coopera­tion of Campus Ministry, took tlrn initia­tive in 1997 to establish Eucharistic adoration as an integral part or the pro­lifo effort. It is countr:r-cultural. But it is solidly based. As the Catechism of the Catholic Church states, "The Eucharistic presence of Christ begins at the moment of the consecration and endures as ·1ong as tho Eucharist species subsist. The Catholic Church has always offered ... to the ... Eucharist the cult of adoration, not only during Mass, but also outside of it, reserving the consecrated hosts ... exposing them to the solemn veneration of the faithful. and carrying tlwm in procession. 'The Church and Ll111 vvorld have a great need for Eucharistic wor­ship. Jesus a.waits us in this sncramm1l of love. Let us not rnf'use the timo to go to meet him in adoration, in contempla­tion full of faith and open to making amends !'or the serious offenses and crimes of the world. Let our adoration never cease,'" quoting John Paul II. "Because Christ hims11lf is present in the sacrament of the altar, ho is to bn l11mored with the worship of adoration, 'To visit the Blessed Sacrament is ... a µroof of gratitude, an expression of love, and a duty of adoration toward Christ our Lord,"' quoting Paul VI again. 
Eucharistic adoration takes plao1 every Monday from 11 :30 p.m. lo Ttrnsday at 10:45 p.m. at St. Paul Chapel in Fisher Ilall and every Friday from noon to 5:00 p.m. at the Lady Chapel in the Basilica. Contact Jason Braun (4-3259), Mary Tarsha (4-2469) or Lisa Domidovir.h (4-0847) for infor­mation or to sign up for a haf!~hour 
slot. But you don't havn to contact any­body. .lust show up. Stay for as long or as short a limn as you wish. You can pray, read or just think. 
So why should we rousn oursnlvns to givo 30 minutes in this way'? One ma­son is that it works. Whnn Mother Teresa was askod, "What will convert Anrnrica and savo !Im world'?" slrn replied: "My answer is prayer. What w11 need is for every parish to comn lrnl'or11 Jesus in tho Blessed Sacrament in holy hours of prayer." Archbishop Fulton J. Shnen made a holy hour of adoration beforn thn Blessed Sacrament evPry clay of his priestly lif'e. lie said, "IT]hr1 Holy Hour is not a devotion; it is a sharing in thn work of rndempt.ion. In the Garden, our Lord contrasted two 'hours' -one was thn (!vii hour, 'this is your lmur' with which Judas could lurn out the; lights or the world. In contrast, our Lord asked, 'Could you not watch one hour with Mn?' lie askml for an hour of' reparation to combat the hour ol' evil. Not for an hour or activity did IIo plead but ror an hour of companionship. Tho purpose ol' the lloly IIour is to nncour­agn deop pnrsonal nncounter with Christ. God is constantly inviting us to conrn to Ilim, to hold 1:onv1ws(\ with JJim, to ask for such things as we need and to experience what a blessing them is in fellowship with llim." 
Through tlrn initiative of' studrmts we havn this opportunity hem at Notre Dame. Each week has 168 hours. It is di/'licult to imagine a morn practically cffnctive way to spend I/336th or our wrnik. And whilo you arn at it, remmn­hor that tlrnre is no rule against praying for tlrn success or t.lrn football tnam. 
Charles Rice is a prr~fessor in the Notre Dame Law School. !!is column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in rhi.<: column ar(' those ofthe aullwr and not neces­sarily those r~l The Observer. 

"Physical strength can never permanently withstand the impact ofspiritual force. " 
Franklin D. Roosevelt former President of the United States 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Tuesday, September 26, 2000 BSERVER page 11 
Understanding culture through ordinary life 
Two weeks ago Thursday, the Innsbruck group, wearied from lhroc endless weeks of intensive German class, boarded a train at llw Salzburg main station bound for Vienna. As our rail cars mowd for­ward the landscape of the Auslriau countryside fell before us. Small towns la.y scattered between the rolling turquoise and ycllow-grrnm hills topped by miniature cathedrals. Their white steeples reach for a paradise above the blue cloud dotted sky. The red-roofed houses of the country villages merged gradually into the asphalt streets and linear constructions of the Vienna neighborhoods. At 7 :30 in the evening we disembarked in the Austrian capi­tal and cultural center. A half-hour later, after brief jaunts on every type ofpublic transportation we f~ll into the dormitory style rooms of tho .lugendgastehaus. Our home for tho weekend held an airborne momory of many lost souls slwltered for a night before moving onward to Budapest or Paris or London. Exhausted I threw my belongings onto the bottom bunk and collapsed into the only bench in lhe room. I shared a can of Pringles and a Diet Coke with my roommate. We reveled in the American snack and our thoughts that linger in the houses and towns in which we spent 18 ordinary years. 
That night I joined seven courageous friends and took the I\-Li11n trol­ley into the Altstadt, the heart of Vienna, that possesses the defining marks of most downtowns in Austria: uneven, stone roads; a large cathedral; small cafes and postcard stands littered along the siclmvalks. The marbled majesty of the ancient aristocratic mansions standing sto­ically beside us caused the neat, modern suburban homes outsidP of Philadelphia or Chicago or Houston appear flimsy and primitiv1~. Even the most sturdy red brick building in my childhood home in sm11h fmst­ern Pennsylvania will crumble and sail like twigs in the wind b1~rorc the centuries old stone structures in Vienna or Salzburg fall. I wacl,\d for a moment in the sensation that life in Europe holds an understanding of consistency and past that life in North America tragically lacks. 
Our jeans and sneakers prevented us from entering any ol' !IH\ bars or bistros at the base of these architectural masterpieces. The wrnrn•n occupying the tiny locales adorned only black pants or skins. l"on'.ing we Americans to feel dusty. grungy and foreign. In a quiet culturn I protest we ate at an outdoor cafe that served wonderful fried American ,·uisine: hamburgers, fried chicken baskets and french fries. 
Friday morning we met at 8:30, prepared to explore the clausLrnpho­bic rooms of Sigmund Freud's house. The stale air inside his library and observation rooms with double doors that allowed patient privar.y did not seem conducive to the creation of a new field of scientilic sl udy, yet the hum of the voices of the city below his secondfloor window inspired a keen interest in the mechanics of life. 
We left the birthplace of psychoanalysis and traveled that al"l.ernoon to the Schatzkammer. the treasury of the Habsburg monarchy. Tlw crowns of Franz Joseph and the crib of l'\apoleon glimmerncl i11 sDll yel­low radiance. The golden, woven images of the priestly garnwnls worn in the presence of kings and lords caused the eyes of we Anrnrif·a11 stu­dents to dance. Later as I strolled through the Viennese Altstadt, my thoughts turned to the paradox of the creation of these magnilirnnt things that tourists from around the world stand in awe befon'. . .\s lho Habsburg monarchs donned emerald encrusted crowns and pos(•d as Titans, peasants labored on their estates and grew ill in tho filth 111" large cities. In light of the injustice surrounding their creation thosn lw11ored possessions made from extraordinary wealth assume a gaudy. tastnless aura. 
The next day we stood in groups of snven at a table eating (;n•t~k mar­
inated chicken wraps beside an eager salesman yelling, "Sch111r·nk, 
schmeck. schmeck!" An old woman with her belongings in a gn)("(!ry 
bag and wearing a unraveling blue cape over a gray dress acrn•;JNI us 
and declared us "schwein" for eating in the midst of her hungt•r. \V('ll­
clothed and weight-conscious, I recognized that l walk with tlw grace of 
God among the modern world's nobilitv. 
That evening we left our jeans at the.Jugengastchaus and w:dk11d like 
royalty into a production of "Mozarl!," a musical with hints or 
"Amadeus" and background chords played frequently on The ll1!:1r in 
South Bend. The rhythmic movement ol' the notes lingered i11 111,1' head 
as I sat with a friend the next day in a small bakery and car«; 11 rnupl1\ or 
blocks from ihe multi-cultural noise oflhe Vienna Altsiaclt. r\s 111! ate 
the Austrian national breakfast of a Kaiser roll and marmalade I 
watched a woman like my grandmother drink coffee, smokt• l"i~arntlns 
and ch.at loudly at a corner table. When we passed the caf"t• !a1,•r in t!Je 
afternoon she sa.t there still. I realized then that the kev 1o undt•rstand­
ing the culture of European cities and countries lies no"t in obst · n·ation 
of the ornate architectural wonders with stores selling replicas of cathe­
drals on their ground floor, but in small journeys into the nt'iglibm­
hoods in which ordinary, real people live. 
Joanna Mikulski is a sophomore Arts and Letters major. :-,·JU' is spend­ing the semester abroad in Innsbruck. Austria. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author Ull(/ 1111l necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Printing gay rights issues 
Gaining support from faculty 
.lim Arkedi8 '99 and Mark Leaheey '01 (chap­!a i11 of the Student Senate) lhink dedsions taken liv tho editorial board of The Observer justify ml 111 i11istrative changes in the status of Notre IJami;·s independent student newspaper. 
Tile Faculty Senatl': of this University. the only i1.1d1ipendont voic~ of faculty opinion on campus. disuKrced with Mr. Arkedis and Mr. Leaheey by a rnlti of 20 -1. Since I chair the Senate committee Ihat proposed the resolution to the full Senate, I lww put it on th!': wP-b as passed: IILlp//www.nd.cdu/-amanier/Observer.html. 
1·c1 like to express strong personal disagreement wi1 Ii Mr. Leaheey's opinion that The Obst)rver has '"pulilished materials against Cail1olic teaching." I .asl yP-ar The Observer published advertis0ments sulJmittod by groups whose sexual orientation I1as resulted in the denial of their official recogni­1ion by this University administration, an action u11ique among peer Catholic universities. The ;tdministration ordered that unrecognized groups IH! drn1ied the opportunity to publish in The ObsPrver. 
The Observer violated the letter of President ;'\fa lloy's edict. Antigone violated Creon's edict 
111:il she not honor and bury the body of her dead IJrnUier. The parallel is exact. The Observer pub­1islH'd nothing against Catholic teaching. Don't pn·ach to me, look at the ads. 
i\11'. Arkedis's lack ofjournalistic good sense is rnmplete. Mr. Arkedis would prohibit "man bites clog'" stories because dogs do most of the biting. 
Tlmse members ofthe faculty and student body who think it is not news that homosexual members or this community lead responsible, productive lil'{lS in positions ofresponsibility and leadership lw,:ause most members of this community are not ho11Josexual, should confess their total ignorance t,1· 1llt' role of a free press in a free society. 
Ed Manier 
class of'53 Faculty Senate Student Affairs Committee chair September 23, 2000 
Providing a forum to debate 
I found Mr. Arkedis's Sept. 22 letter to display a disturbingly narrow view of what is "relevant to the majority of thls campus." Mr. Arkedis seems to be implying that gay rights are not a relevant issue to the het­erosexual students that comprise the majority at Notre Dame. 
Are gay rights only relevant to homosexu­als? Are women's rights only relevant to women? 
I faced many disturbing issues in my time at Notre Dame. Father Garrick was banned from saying mass at the Basilica after he had announced his sP-xual oriP-ntation to the public. There was a movement to shut down the Women's Resource Center because they provided a pamphlet with a Planned Parenthood phone number on it. The fact that I am a het0rosexual male did not diminish the importance of these issues; in fact, it made them all the more crucial. I have always appreciated The Observer's extensive coverage of these issues; it seems the staff at The Observer has always recog­nized the value of providing a forum for debating the truly important moral ques­tions facing the Notre Dame campus. 
In my four years at Notre Dame, I person­ally found the actions of the administration with regards to gay rights to be depressing­ly lacking in compassion. I believe that the administration displayed an antiquated view, often clinging to the official party line rather than thinking things through with their own hearts. The Observer's criticism of the administration over the years may seem harsh, but I believe it continues to play an important role in helping the stu­dents of Notre Dame understand and deal with the truly important issues. 
Dan Connolly class of '98­September 25, 2000 

Responding to Democratic tax plan 
111 rngard to the views expres_sed by Jeffrey Si u!lings in his Sept. 22 column as to the pro­p, lSlid tax plans of each presidential candidate, ~!1·. Stutlings demonstrates the well known t,•t:llnique (perfected by the Democratic Party) ol" '"spin doctoring," in which the author careful­!, ust!S his language to create a false image of ti:,· ;1ctual facts. Mr. Stuffings accuses Governor l\11,.,IJ·s tax cut plan of lacking "compassion" lw1·,n1se the wealthy prosper the most. He cites llw fact that with Governor Bush's plan, 62 per­c1•11L 111" the tax cut benefits goes to the top 10 p,·n·tint of taxpayers. To quote the article, "The pI, 111 is a blessing for the very rich." Mr. S!llllings leads us to believe that Governor l\usli's plan treats the poor unfairly. This could 11"l IJn farther from the truth. 
\ \·hal Mr. Stunings conveniently omitted from Iiis ,1 rUcle was the fact that across-the-board 111";111s lliat everyone receives an equal percent­ag,, cut. l'rom their income taxes. What he also l,td,·d Lo mention was that the top 5 percent of L.:-.. 111comc earners contribute nearly 90 per­('.{,111 ul' all tax revenue. I believe that Mr. Siul1i11gs should also have explained that 
' IJ1,,·,1use an equal percentage tax cut returns 11H)J"c money to the individual that pays the most 
1 

i11 1!i1J first place, on a percentage basis, those 
11 h" pay 90 percent of taxes would ob,iously 
, lw11f'!H the must. However, Vice President Clln,·s plan experts tl,10se who contribute 90 1wn:1J11l ofthe country's tax burden to con­tl'ih1l.l! ovl':n morn on a percentage basis. ls that 
1·;; ii".' 

More importantly, what we must realize is that the tax revenues are provided to the gov­ernment by the will ofthe people. No govern­ment has a natural right to the citizens' funds; under our system of government, those funds are granted to the government, by the people, for the benefit of all the people. 
The purpose of tax money is to fund govern­ment programs, not to be collected and be redistributed as the government sees fit. History has shown that the private use of capital is far more efficient than government use. In its most extreme case, the opposite use is known as socialism, which over the course of history, has proven to be far from efficient. Even today, we see Germany abandoning their "democratic socialistic system," which was based upon extremely high tax rates. because it cannot compete \-\1th capitalism as practiced within the United States. Ask any macroeconomics profes­sor this and they will agree. 
I\Ir. Stutfmgs makes a great argument with the limited facts that he provides the reader. But we must see the whole picture if we are to decide for ourselves. Mr. Stuffings, in keeping with the Gore campaign decision to limit critical debate (witness the two-month absence of press conferences} provides little in this respect. And speaking of soft money, how,much is it for a night in the Lincoln bedroom? 
John Schirano 
senior September 22, 2000 


CONCERT RIEVIEW 
Contagious euphoria consumes fans at Phish 
By TIM BODONY Scene Music Critic 
Phish guitarist Trny Anastasio has to 

wonder how things got this far. Night af'tPr night, he presides over an ocean of bobbing heads and flailing limbs, his !'ace displaying a combination of elation and intensity. The band that began by playing "Proud Marv" at a University of Vermont HOTC dancA 17 years ago ~ow boasts a cult following that packs arenas and Phish, who filled their first set with unin­spired versions ofsome of their best songs. 
The band was spinning its wheels at the starting line with a very sterile version of "Om,vn \'Vith Disease," then moving quickly and unimaginatively through classics like "Wilson" and "Slave to the Traffic Light." They redeemed themselves with solid ver­sions of "Bathtub Gin" and the rpie "You Enjoy Myself," which features trampoline­aided choreography and stunning light work by technician Chris Kuroda. 
But overall, the band seemed tentative 


amphitheatres across the country. And they did it by providing lis­teners with an overall musical experience, not just two hours of loud rock and roll, but an Bntirn subculture based on the pursuit of good grooves and good times. 
One has to question whnther the "Phish cul­ture" sometimes over­shadows the music itsnlf, but nevertlrnless Phish still receive criti­cal acclaim for their artistic talents. Holling Slone goes as !'ar as labeling them "the most important band of' tho 
'90s." 
With all tlw sidPshows and distractions that accompany them. Phish tuok thr. stagr last weekend at the Allstatti Arnna in suburban Chicago. and ovc:( thP course of two nights demonstrated an excep-
Set List 
September 22, 2000 Chicago -Allstate Arena 
SPl l .· Down With Disease Meat Poor llnart Wilson Slave To The Traffic Light Dugs Stole Things Bathtub Gin lleavy Things You Enjoy Mysolf 
Set 2: 
Tub(' Heba Ghost The WedgP When The Circus Comes '.Vleatstick Hun Like An Antelope 
Encore 
Axis: Bold As Love 

tional ability to leave the traps of rock and roll behind in an effort lo create music that defies bot111dari1)s and yet maintains a good-humored sem;e of purpose. 
Day One -Friday, September 19, 2000 

For many fans, the day got off to an inauspicious beginning thanks to tho Bosemont Police Department. which was deployed throughout the parking lots with military-style ferocity. Their campaign of tf1rror brought the normally uninhibited lot scene to a virtual standstill in some areas as spil!Bd beer mixed with rain to drown many fans' spiriL<;. 
All attention then rightfully turned to 
and failed to establish a 
good flow between 
songs. But things would 
only get better from 
heni. 
It would seem that Trey, self-critical as he is, delivered a Knute Hockne-style speech during the set break, because he and his bandmates came out with much greater focus and intensity. 
Keyboardist Page McConnell employed some tasteful Moog work to drive the funk­driven "Tube" and "Ghost." while Trey filled "Reba" with his characteristically smooth and expressive solo work. 
A cover of tlrn beauti­ful and contemplative Los Lobos tune "When the Circus Comes" slowed the pace down before the band served up a heaping helping of 
"Meatstick," which was accompanied by a dance resembling a prehistoric equivalent to the Macarena. Trey jokingly explained to the audience that on their recent tour of Japan, Phish were surprised to Jind that the dance had already taken the country by storm. So as tribute to the Moatstick­crazed Japanese youths, drummer .Jon Fishman and Page McConnell recited the chorus in Japanese as Trey and bassist Mike Gordon put down their instruments and led the crowd in the dance. The crowd ate it up, and so did the band, as Trey con­tinued to weave the "Meatstick" melody in between the opening bars of "Run Like an Antelope." 
After a nod to Hendrix with "Axis: Bold 

Photo courtesy of www.phish.com Phish is composed of (from right to lett) drummer Jon Fishman, keyboardist Page McConnell, guitarist Trey Anastasio and bassist Mike Gordon. 
As Love," Phish closed the book on a great second half to a show that suffered from a lackluster beginning. Most notably, the "Meatstick"-"Antelopn" combination was a true display of what Phish can be: imagina­tive. funny and unpredictable. 
Day Two -Saturday, September 23, 2000 
With the second show of a two-night stand come renewed hopes and expecta­tions. Phi.sh fans are notorious for treating songs like presents on a Christmas wishlist: if Santa didn't bring a "Mike's Song" or a "Harpua" tonight, then maybe he will bring one next time. Like kids on Christmas morning, fans hurried into the Allstate Arena again on Saturday night to their summer show at Alpine Valk:y, wlrnn Trey completely reddined the tune with some amazingly liquid and nrnlodic solo work. this rendition stayed fairly close to the recorded version. The highlight of the set was undoubtedly "Scent of a Mule," which began in normal fashion as an upbeat bluegrass song, and then complete­ly changed directions as Mike and Trey kicked their way into "The Tarentclla," transforming the AllstatB Arena into a giant Italian wedding reception. But before too many Godfather quotes could be uttered, Mike led the band back into "Scent ofa Mule." 
After a soaring "Fast Enough for You" and a "Piper" that dissolved into an ambi­ent jam, Phish rocked the set to a close with "Character Zero." 
see what special treats awaited them. And jolly old Saint Phi.sh did not disappoint. 
The surprises began with Phish's first attempt at the Crazy Horse song "Come On Baby, Let's Go Downtown," a steady rocking tune that primed the crowd for the things to come. They shifted from rock to fimk with the head­bobbing "The Moma Dance," and then back to rock again with onfl of' the greatest arena tunes of alt time ­Edgar Winter's "Frankenstein." 
Phish is certainly not the archetypal arena rock band with walls of amplifiers and tight pants, so their perfor­mance of this tune is almost comical. But as a brief diversion, it 
Set List 
September 23, 2000 Chicago -Allstate Arena 
Set 1: 
Come On Baby Let's Go 
Downtown (Crazy Horse) Moma Dance Frankenstein Halley's Comet Stash 
Set 2: 
Birds Of A Feather Tweeznr NICU Scent Of A Mule -Tarentella ­
Scent Of A Mule Past Enough For You Piper Character Zero 
Encore: 
Sleeping Monkey Tweezer Reprise 

works. They maintained the high energy level by closing out the set ,vith three older favorites, capped off by superb version of "Stash" accompanied by a glowstick war. This song has t.o be considered the Phish trademark, based on its enigmatic lyrics and dramatic composition, which steadily builds a mood of tension leading up to a point of release when Trey's guitar pierces the air with screaming high notes. 
For the encore, Ralphie got his Red Ryder BB gun in the form of the wistful anthem "Sleeping Monkey." Just when the song could have ended, the spotlight fell on Jon Fishman, who delivered two choruses on his own before the band joined in for a few more. Hands were joined and tears were shed. It truly was a fit­ting end to a weekend filled with unBxpncted twisl'i and turns. 
Over the course of two fl-ights and four sets of music, Phish played only two songs off of their new album, rarmhouse. This fact speaks volumes about the band's unique posi­tion in the music world today. Phish does not tour to support an album -they record 

albums to take a break from touring. Without having to worry about. "playing the hits,'' Phish has the freedom to do any­thing at any time. And freed from the weight of predictability, fans tirelessly return to Phish in search of new highs, new rnvelations, or just a good tim(\ in the presence of likCl-minded people. The euphoria is so contagious that even if musi­cal wishes wm1t unfulfilled, everyonCl 
Photo courtesy of www phish com 

The second set picked up where the first leaves the arena feeling content, and think­
Gordon, Fishman and Anastasio jam to one of their many amazing songs leaving 
let off, with a high-energy "13irds of a ing ahead to the next timP the circus 
the fans feeling content and waiting in anticipation for Phish's next show. 
Feather" followed by "Tweezer." Unlike comes to town. 

Tuesday, September 26, 2000 page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Sleater-Kinney revamp punk attitude on All Hands 
By SAM DERHEIMER 
Scene MLlsic Editor 
Ever wonder what Nirrnna would have sounded like had Kurt Cobain been born a woman? Sleater-Kinney has an answer to that question -stop making the comparison. 
After four critically-acclaimed albums, the all-girl punk-rock trio from Olympia has rightfully come into their own. And after their last album. The Hot Rock. faltered commerciallv, anrl the hanrl was nailed with criticisms of selling· out. and losing touch, Sleater­Kinnev has returned to face tho fickle world of rock music· and offer fans one of their best albums ever in All Hands On the Bad One. 
Sleater-Kinney have gone bark to their roots. In All Hands On the Bad One, we again see the quick, sharp punk rock bonded with the raw. emotional poetry of lead vocalist Corin Tucker's lyrics and the band's evPr present pro-feminist attitude that SleaLer-Kinney did so well on their tirst few albums. 
As a whole. the album is much more complex and inventive than Sluater-Kinney has shown in the past. And for the first tinrn, thHy also vPrge on achiPVing some much needed musical diversity. 

The album's first single, "You're No Rock 'n Roll Fun" is both catchy and popish. That's right. popish. It's not everyday a band like Sleater-Kinney makes anything that can be labeled as "popish," but the thing is, it works. 
Tucker's sarcastic and playful lyrics take hard jabs at the pop world. while at the same time, the crafted riffs by lead guitarist Carrie Brownstein coupled with the drums of' Janet Weiss fill out an unbe­lievably alluring rock-pop beat behind her. It's the perfect anti-pop, pop song. And that's what Sleater-Kinney is all about -quality music, with a punch. 

However, for the majority of the album, the band has revamped and nicharged its riot grrl (no, that's not a typo) punk attitude, sending the album on a blitz of female adrenaline and fury. 
"Ironclad" might as well be an outtake from Pearl Jam's grunge Bible, Ten. "Male Model" is an all-out punk assault, as Tucker crafts some of her finest jaded, girl-power style lyrics set to a blistering guitar and heavv drums, "You don't own the situation, 
· 


All Hands On the Bad One, the fifth studio album from the all-girl punk trio Sleater-Kinney, reestablishes the band as one of the most genuine and talented punk bands in the U.S. scene. 
Today 
Dawld•·••••e -·B•w•e a1.1be• Beeb 08 Dearees • ReYelation Ju.-enHe • Plapz ol Da Game Morphine -Boo11ea: Detroit 
October 3 
Green Day -warnina Radjobea·11 -Kjd JI Paul Simon -You're the One ln¦ iao Gil'IS -•11•1110 Gjrls: A Re1rospeociwe 
October 10 
l'he Wallflowers -Breach ,_..IY.:·.··.:,·yap·o•r··lr~:nsm·issi.on Gome• • Abandon~cl S"oppina·Tro,ley HotHne 


• c•unesy of waillofsound.com 
UPCOMING CONCERTS 
South Bend 

Matchbox Twenty JACC 
Indianapolis 

Jimmy Pase Live wli-C:h 
The Black Crowes Deercreek AHce Cooper Murat Theater Hanson Murat Theater ••x•e ch,cks Conseco SR-71 Yosue Theater *NSYNC Conseco 
Chicago 

Jets to Brazil Me«ro Tina Turner UnHed Center Cowboy Mouth House of Blues Dosstar House of Blues 
Bacl Re.,sion RiYiera 
N•shty Mtshty Bosstones VIC Theater Dynamiee Hack Necro 

Sept. 29 Oct. I Oct. 7 Oct. 22 Oct. 24 Oct 25 + 26 
Oct. I Oct. 4 Oct. 7 Oct.9 Oct. 14 
Oct~20 Oct. 21 

honey/ You don't own the stage/ We're here to join the conversa­tion/ And we're here to raise the stakes/ Now do you hear that sound?/ As the model breaks/ Take the stage!/ Let the image of him fade away .. ./ It's time-for a new rock 'n' roll age/ History will have to find a 
different face/ And if you're ready for more/ I just might be what you're looking for." 
"Was It a 

.... 

Lie?" displays the real. and at times, brutal power of Brownstein's guitar. Combined with transcendently haunting vocals from Tucker, the song is easily one of the best on the album. 
Suprisingly, the band also branches out in All Hands On the Bad One, showing a depth in song writing that bad been noticably absent on past releases. In tracks like "Leave You Rehind" and "The Swimmer" an airy guitar and layered vocals creates a much softer and more harmonized sound than Sleater-Kinney is used to producing. And though most of the album is much heavier and faster. the few slower, "prettier" songs serve well to pace the album, and present Tucker with a chance to show off her true vocal range. 
All Hands On the Bad One is a dramatic mixture of punk, pop and rock from one of the most celebrated girl bands in America. And though the stereotype that all punk songs sound the same is not exactly destroyed by All Hands, Sleater-Kinney do offer their fans something true, honest and exceptionally power­ful. 
If nothing else, it can be said that Sleater-Kinney makes their own music -music they want to make. In world of over-produced, predisposed corporate rock crap, Sleater-Kinney has crafted something gen­uine and honest. And this is what makes Sleater­Kinney such a quality band. It's something that comes through in every song they write. It comes through in Tucker's vocals that convey as much passion and angst as Nirvana fans could ever dream possible. It comes through in the guitar riffs that can't help but garner praise from even the harshish Goldfinger fan. And it comes through in an attitude that separates them from everyone. 
Sleater-Kinney are amazingly talented musicians who write from their hearts and play from their souls. All Hands On the Bad One is merely the natural prod­uct of this. 
page 14 The Observer . SYDNEY 2000 Tuesday, September 26, 2000 
BASKETBALL 
Carter catapults U.S. to victory 
Associated Press 
SYDNEY, Australia 

Vince Carter went ovflr Frederic Weis likfl he was a 7­foot-2 prop in a dunk contest. 
Looking like a contender for the gold medal in the high jump. Carter unleashed one of the most awesome dunks in Olympic history Monday as he jumped clear over Weis and sparked Lhe United States to a I06-94 victorv over Franr.e. 
"For me. that was probably the greatest play in basketball I've cvP.r seen." teammate Jason Kidd said. "Michael .Jordan hasn't done that. Nobody has done that. lle's the next coming of Vince Carter." 
The Americans finished lhP. preliminary round undefeated in five games and raised their overall Olympic record to 106-2. And in those 108 games, it's safe to say there has never been ,1 dunk quite like thP. one Cartnr mad,•. :-lot by Spencer llaywood. 11111 by Clyde Drexl•1r. not b, .iny­body. It might hav11 b1w11 1·11rn bettor than anything-Cnrl11r did in the N13 ;\ s Iam d 1111 k contest last Fcbnmry. 
"I don't rnnk mi1w. I jusi do them." Cart.c1r said .. , dirl1i't think I was going l11 rn11;". it. ar.tually. 1look off l'ro111 :, !1111g way away." 
The U.S. lPnlll will p:ay Hussia in th1' quarl1•rl'i11:1ls, 1tnd a victory thPrn w11uld .~d up a game againsl Yug11:ih1 ia or Lithuania in tlw ,wmil'i11;1ls. 
The spectacular plt1.1 ,·,II11c four minutf's into Llw .,,.r,,ncl hall'. With France tr, i11g Lo move the ball upcourl :,11d ni.ne or the IO player:-1111 1l1e r,ourt running tlw sanH· 11 ;Iy. Carter was hnacled tlw 1!lll()r way as he intercepted ,1 pass some 30 feel l'rnm till' h.t~kPL and bore down 1i11 \Vl'is ,, ill1 a full head ofst1\alll. 
Ile took off f'rom a s11·11 or 
two inside 
1'11 2000 Olympic Men's l1{1I Basketball Schedule 
Sundny, September .17, 2000 China vs. United Stnt<•s ,1 ::1oam 
Monday, September 18, 2000 \Tnih•d :St.alt.'svs. Italy 11:'.sOpm 
Wednesday, Scptcrnber 20, 2000 llnHed Stat.cs vs. I.itl·1w1nia It:3op111 
Saturday, September 23, 2000 New Zealand vs. UnitC'd States 4:3oan 
Sunday, Scph.,.rnt.mr 24, 2000 Frnn<~<' vs. I Jnitcd Stat.cs 11 ::soprn 
Thursday, September 28, 2000 
QmlT·te,-finals 1211111 -3:,,iopm 
Classifications 6:30pm -10pm 
Friday, September 29, 2000 
Se,nifinals 4 :3oan1 -8: 10am 
Saturday, Septemhet· :10, 2000 
B1·onze n1edul gan1c 8p1u -12:1oarn 
Gold medal garnes 
lhl' l'oul 1;111', sprPat:.l lib Ii-gs in mid-ai1 :illd ,n:nl rigl1i ,,, 1:r \\'cis. !J;11·,·ly snaping :he 
lop ol' the 
i;J' P 11 C ii Ill;, 11 • S 
bu1.zn1t.. 
"I J.;11,·,1 he could ju111p. but I didn't k1,,1w lw could ;1;:11p OVl'r 1111' ... \\ ,•is said. 
"l(VPl'_I l)i;dy will !,:no\'." ,ny l'aci: ll 111\. or 
my nu111li,•r at lt·ast.. IL'~ g11illg lo lJ () "II a 
p11sl1:r !'or 
sure:. 
Thn ,· 1·11wd ,,·1:nl wild. :he i\nwric'.an ,.,1;,y­«·rs !(•.np1·ti ,iJ'f tlw b,:111' :1 ;, 11d 
Carter's personal dunk cata­log had a new entry. 
"I don't do them for my enjoyment. I just do them because that's what hap­pens." said Carter, who 
recalled that he  once dunked  
over  7-foot  Dikembe  
Mutornbo. too.  

"Th1\ only time I've seen a play like that is when I jumpncl over my 4-year-old son on one of those Nerf ball sets,'' coach Rudy Tomjanovich said. 
Carter scored the i\merirans' next two points on an al ley-oop pass off the backboard by Gary Payton, and it drew a mere buzz by comparison. That's how incredible the previous dunk was. 
"That was a 10, maybe a 12," Tim Hardaway said. "I've never seen anybody jump over a i-footer. It got us pumped up, and I think they were ratllt>d for three, four minuLns after that." 
llighlights aside. the Americans had plenty of trou­ble early and let France creep back into the game late. 
A dunk by Crawford Palmer with just more than four min­utes lcfl made it a 10-point gamt\, <J4-84, but Antonio McDycss responded with a dunk of his own off a length­ol'-tlw-court pass. 
Kevin Garnett clanged a dunk attempt off the back of the rim and into the stands with :1:42 left. giving France a chann~ Lo pull even closer. 
BuL Antoine Rigaudeau missrid a 12-footer and Gart11\ll had a reverse dunk, a steal and another dunk in the spaet! of the next 10 seconds. That made the score 100­
86. ,md the threat of another clos1~ call like the one the Americans had four nights earlit' r against Lithuania was gone. 

SOFTBALL 
U.S. coIDes on strong to earn spot in finals 
Associated Press 
BLACKTOWN, Australia 
Cheered on by its baseball brethren in the morning and its soccer sisters at night. the U.S. softball team avenged two of its three first-round losses on Monday to sweep into the gold­medal game. 
Jennifer McFalls. who scored the winning run over Australia, hugs teammate Christie Ambrosi after the 1-0 victory by the U.S. put them in the gold­medal game. Stacey Nuveman homered in the third extra inning to beat China 3-0 in the first game and set up a grudge match with Australia. In the nightcap, Lisa 
Lasorda and the U.S. baseball team. whir,h came by after prac­ticing on an adjacent field. cele­brated by r.hanting "U-S-A!" The crowds at the night game were more hostile, hoping to cheer their Aussies to the gold medal. But the women's soccer team made itself heard, coming out to the Sydney suburbs after arriv­ing from Canberra earlier in the day. 
"The baseball learn. when they came to that game. it was a tremendous lift for us," Fernandez said. "And then to look up in the stands and see the women's soccer team up there ... I just want to thank the fans of USA softball who stuck with us through the tough times." 
Mocking a local 

r:ernandcz struck "We took care of cheer heard end­out 13 Aussies to lessly in Australia. 
China. We took care
win 1-0 and the soccer players
ofAustralia. Now we
advance to the spurred Fer-nan­championship have to take care of dP.z on by yelling, •against unbeaten "Lisa! Lisa! Lisa!
Japan."
Japan. Oil Oi! Oi!" 
"The three And. after two teams thal Stacey Nuveman stellar but disap­knocked us off in pointing perfor­
U.S. team member 
the round-robin are the teams that we have to get through to get the gold," Nuveman said. "We took care of China. We took care of 
Australia. Now we  have to take  
care of Japan."  
Australia  won  the bronze  

medal. China. which lost to the Americans in the gold-medal game in the 1996 Olympics but beat them 2-0 in 14 innings in the round-robin this year, fin­ished fourth. Heavily favored before a three-game losing streak brought them to the brink of elimination, the Americans clinched at least a bronze earlier in the day when Nuveman homered in the 10th to beat China. 
Michelle Smith struck out 10 in eight innings before Christa Williams pitched two hitless innings for the victory. Tom 
mances against the Aussies. Fernandez finally finished them off. Bouncing around in the pitcher's drcle like a boxer between rounds. Fernandez allowed just one hit and one walk. She retired the last 12 batters, fanning eight in a row to get the first out in the seventh. 
But the next two batters posed problems: they had both home­r e d off Fernandez in the Olympics before. Peta Edebone, who hit a 13th-inning homer off her to win in the preliminaries, grounded out to third with one out in the seventh. Joanne Brown, who hit a game-winning homer off Fernandez in the Americans' only loss of the 1996 Olympics -spoiling a perfect game in the 10th -bounced it back to the mound to end the game. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST AND FOUND 
LOST ND-PU WEEKEND ... OUR PURDUE FLAG WAS LOST IN THE PARKING LOT ON THE SOUTH SIDE OF EDISON ROAD. THE 6 FT X 10 FT FLAG WAS HAND SEWN BY MY WIFE. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. PLEASE DROP OFF AT THE OBSERVER OFFICE BASEMENT OF SOUTH DINING HALL THANK YOU! 
TICKETS 
WANTED ND FOOTBALL TKTS 
289-9280 
ATTENTION. Paying $50.00 per ticket tor last 3 home games. No 
student conversions wanted. 
(219) 289-8048. 
SELLING ND TKTS 251-1570 
VICTORY TKTS BUY "SELL "TRADE ND FOOTBALL 232-0964 www.victorytickets.com 
BUY/SELL ND TICKETS 273-3911 ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED 
A.M
.... 232-2378 P.M.... 288-2726 

ND FOOTBALL TJX FOR SALE 

A.M
.... 232-2378 P.M... 288-2726 


BUY/SELL N.D. FOOTBALL TIX. HOME & AWAY. (219) 289-8048 NO STUDENT CONVERSION TIX 
Dad needs 2 tix to Stanford gameI Ckrosey@rnindspring.com 
2 ND/USC TIX+ AIRFARE! GOTO alumni.nd.edu/-ndc_satx 
For Sale: I tickets call 272-7233 
FOR RENT 
All SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE ANO CLOSE TO CAMPUS http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ emaIl:mmmrenta ls@aol .com 232-2595 
That Pretty Place. Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with_private baths, $80-$115, Middlebury. 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, ·1-800-418· 9487. 
":",Ii :'nd fir. Apt. 525/mo. AK,:., St. Joe River Incl. Water/Sec. ::i r:,i ; rash 288-2654 or 288-2788 
,'J:C[ clOME AVAILABLE NORTH 01 i,l.l [ROSELAND] 277-3097. 
VV,;NTED 
VVIN'T[R BREAK/SPRING BREAK SKi & lleach trips on sale now! WWW ,;unchase.com or call 1-800· S, :,·,. ;HASE TODAY I 
(.;; 11 is,,;in lami!y in neer1 of upbeat c:,,,,.. I.ver tor 18-mo.-old boy in our h,"" ·,ear campus Flex. Hours & q,,.,. ,,:,y. Call Sharyl at 237-0911. 
:.,•: ,, needs to rent in Pasedena, c;,._ •,i~neral area for New Year's h,-:,,:.,v period (12-27 to 1-2) My ~-,,1 , marching in the Rose Bowll 'Nnu:-I l1ost your family for the U:aG:,001 game, tickets included, N'. • !,,ns only' tdatnd@aol.com or :.!:,•, 'A4. ask for Tina. 
1 , •· ; . ,, J for an energetic l:labysitter f •.,vening of Fri. Oct 6, and "''"'.. :on of Sal. Ocl. 7, to watch 2­
y: ·, . 1 and 4-yr.-old. pay $12/hr. C;,,I •',7-294-4857. 

EXPANDING INTERNET COMPA­NY SEEKS PEOPLE INTERESTED IN EARNING PART-TIME OR FULL-TIME INCOME. EASY MONEY. NO EXPERIENCE NEC­ESSARY. CONTACT DREW AT 273-1998 OR BILL AT 251-1362. 
Computer tutor in my home. $1 O+ihr. Microsoft Front Page, Web design. Flex 12+ hrs/wk. Free cof­fee!!! 273-0205. 
WILL. BUY USED CARS CALL 272· 4776. 
FOR SALE 

SPRING BREAK 2001 ... Jamaica, Cancun, Barbados, More. Hiring Campus Reps ... 2 Free Trips! Free Meals-Book by 1113. Call 1-800· 426-7710 or sunsplashtours.com. 
Yamaha MOB digital a-track rec. minidiscs are inc. $750 080 CD qua!. rec. exl Cond... Pat 287-7369. 
Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame, All new, never used, still in plastic. $235. 219-862-2082. 
PERSONAL 
Quality Copies, Quickly' We're open.early, late & weekends THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY FAX IT FAST!!! 
MM ... you are no longer a Classifieds virgin. MK ... so what. cat food is cool! so I have gray hair. big deal. so does YOUR MA Fri. night is gonna be AWESOME. what's up with lhis interoffice stuff? 
I am Scampus News. I can think of some other things that are spontaneous. 
· duh. um, good one. Igot itches in me britches, yes I do. Kate N ... fantastic! Way lo come 
through for the infected Latino. 
By the way, you work in NEWS, not SCENE and hey, it's not even your NIGHT! that's true! whoa, SHAMELESS. this is MAJOR basement material. oh yeah it is. SD says "hmmmmmmmmmrnm.' 
puh-lease. Poop -people of other persua­sions 
Chris is a strange kid. but we LOVE him. Pat ... tooooo badd you missedss 
out on fAjita Moonday night. It was a blast. The Season has officially begun! HALL BALL RULES! 
A.P. Rankings 
1. Bear 2. Wenzke 3. Johnson 
4. Derhelmer 5. Stolpa 

Tuesday, September 26, 2000 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 26, 2000 
NFL 
Broncos expect quarterback Griese to start against Patriots 
cmrldn"t thrown tlwn, Pitlwr. cannot further damage tho during thf' season. lw likely will didn't feel ho could support
Associated Press 
"Brian's shoulder !'ell a lot shoulder by throwing. be sidelined 4-8 w11eks. himself on a blitz against a Iinn­bettnr todav. hPttl'r than ·•1 ask<>d thPm if th<>re was a Terrell Davis. who sprainr<l backer. HP didn't want to hurt llENVEH Friday," Shan~than said. "I will chance he could Lear it more his lcl't ankle in Lim season the team. 
Df'nvcr 1'.01u·h Mike Shanahan b,, surprisnd if b!' can't go and ruin the shoulder. and th11 opfl!lCr and missed tlrn nnxt two "First. 111) has to get in foot­C'XJH'Cts q uart,,rbark Brian WPclrwsdav, and I think h0 will doctors said not at all." tH' said. games. played sparingly ball shapP., and wo havr. lo f'npl (;rinsn to start Sunday against sUtrt 011 Sl;ndav unless he has a "Thtiy thought if Im rnuld Irn.n­Sunday, rushing for 41 yards on good about his ankfo. Until that N!'w l•:ngland. SJ~Lbac·k. That's my gut feeling. dle the pain. he could go. six rnrries. But lw complained happens. we will spot play him 
Griese. the Nl:L's top-rated Tht~rn•s been a big improve­"If he feels he is able to play of discomfort and didn ·t carry like we did last week." passer. tore carti!ago in hi!-> nrnnl in lhe training niom." at the level he did the first the ball in the second hair. Jason Elam. the kicker who lhrowing shoulder against Shanahan cnnf'irmed GriPSP thrne WPP.ks. he'll h,, out then'. "TerrPll's anklo, Pvon though brokr. t.wo transverse procr.ss Oakland a week ago and missed will oventually require surgery. I don't Lhink the pain wilJ affer:L he couldn't finish the game. bones in his lownr back against 1hr. Bronros· 2'.i-22 loss to "Anv time tlwre's a I.oar, his pPrformance. It's not as big feels bettor now than it did last Atlanta two weeks ago. Kansas City on Sunday. surgn1·y will be necdncl." he a tear as it was a year ago." w n c k ,'' Shan a h a n s a ict . •• ll e resum(\d kit:king on Monday. 
Thn plan was for Gricisc to said. "We said that f'rom the If GriesH devf~lops complica­took himself' out bflcausr. on a !Ir. was originally expnr.t0d to throw Friday in hopns of' play­beginning." tions and surgery is required play whon hP was blocking. he be sidelinr.d 3-8 wnnks. ing Sunday. When Im couldn't (;riese had a similar injury throw Friday bccaus1>. of pain carlv last sPason. Hr missed and inflammation. he was two ·ganH'S. then had surgery nxpcr.ted to throw during al'tt>r tho s<'ason. warmups so hr c:(Hrld be a Shanahan said he has bo<'n backup to Gus Fn~roltr. Griest> assured by doctors that 1,riesc 
,, s~7 
·_'Are you highly motivated and loohing for an opportunity ·.· · to work with an outstanding company? Please join us. 
Signature Graphics, Inc. is the nation's largest and 
• Representatives will be 

fastest growing graphic design, manufacturer and on hand to discuss all 
installation firm specializing in Deel media advertising. aspects ofa career in ~ with Signature Graphics, Inc. Thursday, September 28, G-8 p.m. -Foster Room {Lafortune Student Center) -Refres/iments will be seroed. 
r7~7 

Friday, October 6 -Career Center 
Please contact the Career Ce11ter to Sign Up for Interview~. • 
~9 ·.
~ 
a Conta;t Jennifer Williamsd~ 
at 219/926.4994 or 1.800/356.323'5. 
If you've never thought about being a priest, ignore this ad, but if you have ... 

why not find out more?? 
Informal pizza night/prayer/discussion Tuesday, Sept. 26th, 9:00-10: l Sp.m. @ Corby Hall 
CONTACT: Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. ANSWER :W THECALL \(!:y
1-3 087-vocation. l@nd.edu 

"You know my great desire to be close to the young. I declared so at the beginning of my pontificate and repeat it now: you are the future of the world, the hope of the Church." Pope John Paul II 
Please recycle the Observer. 
Tuesday, September 26, 2000 
Gold 
continued from page 24 
covered the whole field allow­ing only one first down the whole game. · 
"A few mistakes on behalf of the offense lead to Carroll's points," said Knott co-captain Brian Pawloski. 
Carroll zeroed in and took advantage of the Jugg mis­takes. Two consecutive inter­Cf~ptions by Fred Kottemann and Jim Butz were returned for touchdowns and gave Carrol a 14-7 by the end of the firsl half. . 
After the half Knott started kicking in. Knott's captain Pat Virtue had two toul:hdowns rushing, running the ball really hard Giving the Juggs a 20-14 lead over the Vermin. Pawloski was very pleased with the offense. 
"They did a lot better this game," he said. "I know we have the talent," captain Geoff Polk said. "It was just a matter of putting it into play." 
Fisher 22, Zahm 14 
The del'enses of Zahm and Fisher Hall surrendr.red a com­bined total of five point5 in the first week of interhall football play. Consequen1.ly. both teams anticipated a grueling, low-scoring affair in thr,ir match-up on Sunday. 
If the fortunes of interhall fate confirm one thing, howev­er, it is to expect the unexpect­ed. In a game defined by explosive passing, the Fisher Wave pnwailed, 22-14. 
Zahm took over on downs after a goal-line stand by the defense and quickly went to work. Quarterback Dan Burke found Chris Bystcdt for a 45­yard gain. Forced into a fourth and goal situation from the five, Burke again looked to pass and connected with Joe Saenz for a touchdown. Brian Zant's extra point made the score 7-0 in favor of the Rabid Bats. After holding Fisher, Zahm regained control of the ball and Burke and Bystedt combined for another touch­down drive. This put the bats up 14-10. 
The Wave, however, were hardly preparnd to throw in the towel. After a personal foul penalty positioned Fisher inside Zahm territory, Levkulich found Stnvc Dohertv !'or a 40-yard touchdown, foi­lowed by a two point conver­sion. 
Zahm Hall's solid play in the first half was ovorshadowed by miscues and the opportunism of Fisher in the second set. 
The nnal 60 minutes were a "dr>wnward spiral" for the Bats. said Zahm captain Brian Zant. 
After forcing Fisher tu punt, Zahm took over and Burke went out passing. ln a. play that Fisher captains ealled the games· defining moment, Ray Aflandilians intercepted Burke's first pass and returned it to the Zahm 15. Fish or took fuU advantage or their field position, putting together a four-play seqtwnce which cul­minated. in a touchdown by running back HichiP llendina. 
After regaining possession, Zahm sought to reestablish their lead. Af'tnr gaining a first down, Burke heaved a 55-yard completion to the cndzone. The score was called back and a series of costly penalties were called against Zahm. When the dust settled, Zahm was pinned at its own 1 It lini\ confronted with second and :,6 yards to go. 
After a short punt. Fisher took over with solid lield posi-

The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
tion. A 15-yard touchdown pass from Levkulich to Doherty gave Fisher their first lead, which with a two point conver­sion amounted to 22-14. 
Zahm nearlv scored with seconds remaining, but the dock ran out and Fisher held on to the win a game they said was critical. ­
"We were desperate," said · captain Dahx Marrs. "The sea­sons arc short, so every game really matters." 
The Wave had planned to focus on hard-nosed, aggres­sive defense; ultimately, they delivered despite Zahm's early success. 
"We need to step up our pass defense," said Marrs, '·but this game shows that Wfl can come from behind and our offense can sr:orfl." 
Marrs believes. that his team was able to stay focused and perform consistently, trail,; that the Wave hopes to maintain in the crucial games ahead. 
'"We were able to execute on offense," said Dean Korolis, "and we're looking forward to Sorin next'week." 
Zahm, on the other hand, suffered more than one loss on Sunday. In addition to seeing their lead evaporate, the Rabid Bats lost cornerback Pat Mitchell, who broke his ankle, for the season. Pete Henning, an offensive lineman, also injured his ankle, but Zant dP,sc,:ibed his status as "day to day. 
Despite their disappoint, the Bats intend to make some adjusts and repair the breach created bv Fisher. 
"After lhe St. Ed's game, we there was a perception that we could 'walk on water' -which was obviously incorrect," com­mented Zant. "But we will learn from our mistakes and be ready for the rest of the sea­son." 

competition. Lindenfeld moved to St. Joseph, Michigan, the birthplace of her husband. In 1984, she took continued from page 24 over as the Notre Dame field hockey coach, a position she held until "We really had a good chance to 1990, when she stopped to work win a good medal," Lindenfeld said. full-time as aPhysical Education 
Four of the other five nations set instructor. to compete in field hockey followed Meanwhile, Brown completed her the American lead and withdrew degree at Arizona State while work­from the Garnes. ing as an assistant coach. 
Only the USSR, the host nation, She served as the Sun Devils' still took part. Like Lindenfcld, head coach from 1983 to 1988. Brown had devoted her life to Rro\Vll took a two-year interim from Olympic dreams in a vision shat­college volleyball to work as an tered by the boycott. assistant coach for the U.S. national 
"From the 1974 World and Olympic teams, settling at Notre Championships up until 1980, I had Dame in 1990. really been working up to that," "Coaching in the Olympics was a Brown said. "This great experience, 
was a huge step for "To me, [the boycott] and I'm really us that we had thankful that I had 
Boycott 
was not the right thing 
qualified. We were that," Brown said. fifth in the '78 to do, especially with "The opportunity to World Champion­the games meant to participate in the ships. In '76, we opening ceremonies 
symbolize peace and
did not qualify, but and march in the between '78 and unity." parade and live in the decision to boy­the village was cott, the only team great, but I do think 
Debbie Brown 
we had not beaten it's a different situa­
Irish volleyball coach
was Cuba." tion than being an 
As a player on the national team, Brown did not enjoy the same endorsement dollars as today's top athletes. 
She received free room and board and volleyball equipment. Aside from that, she lived on a stipend of $80 per month, surviving on barely enough money to go out to dinner or see a movie. So waiting four more. years in hopes of winning an Olympic medal was unrealistic. 
"J had been working towards making the Olympic team since 1974, and really made that the pri­ority in my life. I had left college early, and wanted to get my degree," Brown said. "While I think I would have enjoyed continuing to mmpete, if I was going to continue to play volleyball, that was going to have to be my primary focus." 
The two women each married within a year of retirement from athlete." 
Twenty years after their hearts were broken, the pain throbs a little less. 
"I didn't watch a single event the year of the boycott," Undenfeld said. "It hurt to think of it. It had been my goal, and they took that. But I've watched it more this year than four years ago, and more four years ago than theGamesbefore." 
Brown harbors a ·small ache when the Olympics take center stage, but the sadness doesn't keep her from viewing the competition. 
"Every four years since 1980 when the Olympics have been on. there is a little bit of bringing back the experience and the hurt that I didn't get to compete," Brown said. "But I absolutely love watching it. It doesn't really matter what the sport is; I just love watching it. I really find it hard to pull myself away from it." 
A: When Ifs the prestigious Luce scholarshlp, finding you an 
exciting 1-yr Job In the far east, strategically chosen to match your career goals. Apply by November 3, 2000. 
·--------------------· 
Interested? 29 a-Have yoo OCtN («Yfffl yoo MVe by 1M eoo dMay, 2001) an ND ~ree1 No east~e•?Fer nm infooni11, aJltadMrs. Lisa rrar,oorg (wnteg.1@oo.oou) 

Do you THINK THE LANGUAGE You HEAR (o~ READ) MIGHT AFFECT YOUR BEHAVIOR? YouA FEELINGS? Do vou THINK THE LANGUAGE  I I  
vou use MIGHT AFFECT YOUR EXPERIENCES? You SHOULD HEAR THIS:  I  
I  
I  
The Language ofAwareness:  I I  
Taking Responsibility far Meanings  I I  
STEVE STOCKDALE  I  
PROGRAM MANAGER, WRITER, CONSULTANT  I  
TRUSTEE, INSTITUTE OF GENERAL SEMANTICS  I  
TH1slsNorTHAT.COM  I  
SEPTEMBER 29, 2000; DEBARTOLO 129; 3:29PM Sp0NSORED BY THE LANGUAGE RESOURCE CENTER  II  

·--------------------· 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 26, 2000 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Overtime win over Bulldogs pulls Belles out of slump 

By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Spom Wrirer 
The soccer Belles are on a roll after pulling themselves oul of a season slump Saturday with a victory against Adrian College. 
As they enter the game against the Calvin Knights today, they hope to continue putting their troubles to rest. 

"This last [game] on Saturday sent us in the right direction," said Belles' co-captain Katy Robinson. "We'll be ready to play." 
The Belles defeated the Bulldogs 1-0 in overtime for the second year in a row. They would rather not repeat last year's game with f.alvin. a 5-0 loss to the team that later linished second in the MIAA behind Kalamazoo. 

"They have always given us a lot of competition." Robinson said. "But everyone seems to be in good spirits and I hope it will continue through Tuesday's game." 
While the offense has been spending time improving its shooting accuracy, the defense has not been idle. 
"Jared [Hochstetler. the defen­sive coach] is giving us a few new things that the defense can do," said fellow co-captain Jessica Klink. "Defensively we are learn­ing some new skills and this is the game to use it in." 
Calvin finished with a 6-2 MIAA record and was 11-7 -2 overall for the 1999 season. April Phelps and Tricia Dyk. All-MIAA First Team selflctions. return Lo the Knights' lineup, while Saint Mary's All­
MIAI\ 

First Team selection. Katy Barger, graduated last year. Knights' goalie _Christian Recker finished last season with a 2.05 GAA. Belles netminder Tia Kapphahn saw some action at forward in the overtime portion of the win against Adrian while freshman goalie Laura Metzger replaced her in goal. Belles head coach ~ason Milligan was happy with her play. 
"Laura Metzger did a really good job," Milligan said. "We're going to try and utilize her more and more but [the position in goall is pretty much game to game." 
Overall. Milligan was pleased to see his team adapt to different positions and plays as the Belles settle into their season. 
"We've had a chance this year to get a lot of people experience in different areas," Milligan said. "It is working out really well. A lot of people are stepping in and fill­ing tho holes." 
Despite their record in the past, the Knights sit behind Saint Mary's in MIAA rnnl<lngs, with a 2-2-0 mark in MIM and a :~-5 mark overall, compared to Saint Mary's 2-1-1 rnnfernnce tally and 2-4-1 season record. 
"We had a good result this weekend." Milligan said. "It's been real similar to a lot of games yve'veplayed, but this one we fin­ished. 
Milligan is confident in his team·s ability to withstand the Knights' challenge and come out of the match with a home victory for the first time since the home opener against Alma. 
"I know that we will hit the field really well and we'll get many opportunities Ito scorn]." Milligan said. 

Domer Run 
A BENEF'IT F'OR NOTRE DAME'S
000
2 
AWARENESS OF" BREAST CANCER 
PROGRAM 

3 & 6 MILE RUNS, 2 MILE WALK AND J 
PANCAKE BREAKFAST _ ~~ !) 
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 30~ = 11:00 -STEPAN CENTER 
T-SHIRTS TO ALL FINISHERS REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS $6.00 IN ADVANCE AND $7.00 DAY OF RACE DEADUNE FOR ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS 9/29/00 AT 5:00'('M STUDENT AND STAFF DIV1s·1ONS 
T-SHIRTS DONATED BY THE ND ALUMNI ASSOCIATION ', ·,, 

-.tiM~!tul --_.
~/--,•-;:/. 

Clubhouse Promotions JVlanager Cashiers/Food Service V olu.nteers flppllcatlons arcz ovallablcz at the ttaggar Collczgcz Center front desk and are ducz October 2. 2000. Please contact Teresa Shaffer (x4562) or Susan fllrnoda (x4012) for rnore Information.  

.:: 
Tuesday, September 26, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
Breen Phillips battles Badin to 6-6 tie after failed conversions 
By CHRIS FREDERICO, 
lAUREN CONTI and JOHN BASCIK 
Sports Wrirers 
Although often overlooked and only worth 01w point. extra points can bPr,omr crucial in rlosP ball gamrs. Missing onr ov1H· th1• cours1-• of a game can r.onw Lark to haunt a 1.11am. as il did to both Breen Phillips and Badin Sundav af'trrnoon on Stepan Firld. · 
Farh tl\am only scored oncf', and both f'ailf'd to complete the conversion. Pnding tlw gamr in a (>-6 tiP. 
B.P. had to punt on their first possnssion and Badin got Lhr ball to sPt up a long driw keyrd by quartrrbark Priscilla ClPnwnts' srrnm bling abilitif's. On third and 15 f'rom tlH'ir own ~::i. Cf Pnwnts ronnPctPd on a big pass to wide n~ccivrr BPtsv Cavo to sot up first and goal. Thr: B.P. dPfonsc~ would hold tlwir ground. h1lWPVPr. and takl' owr tlw ball on dmrns. 
On llw first play of' tlw sProncl 
half'. B.P . .'s Gina MontPnaro 
intpn·.rptnl Badin's quartNbark. 
ClPmPnts. On l'ourth down and 
goal. Kati!' McFarland puslwd 
llw ball into thP'PIHlzonP on a 
quarll~rback draw. ll.P. would 
miss tlw ronvPrsion to go up (>-0. 
Badin again backPd up B.P.'s 
drfonsn to the goal li1w and. onr,e 
again. lhP dnl'PnsP hdd. B.P. then 
took ovPr on downs. 
At'tPr B.P. was l'orr.ed to punt on the next drivn, Badin took the ball and moved down tlrn field. On a kc~v fourth and sevrn. thev camp up with a twenty-yard pas~ to B.P.'s 4 yard Jinn. This time, Badin would not be• denied. as Clements ran thr ball into the endzone on a keeper. Badin, too, would miss their r,onversion. 
With time running out. B.P. nearly scored the go-ahead touchdown but were stoppAd by a r,ostly penalty. 
B.P. captain Jenny Wahoske was upset that her team's last second attempt to score failed, but shA hrld a positive attitude about the game. 
"At least we are moving for­ward." shc> said. "Last week we got a loss. and this week we managed a tie, so next we're hoping for a win." 
B.P. will face Farley next at 9 
p.m. tonight. Badin will square off against Off-C.ampus at 7 p.m. 
Walsh 13, Farley 8 
Farley's Finest were not up to tlrn chal!Pnge this Sunday at Stepan fiPld, as the Wild Women of' Walsh IIall defeated them by a sound 13-8 margin. 
"I think WP canrn out too slow in the first half'." said Farlev coach Mike Hogan. "By the ser:­ond half Wf' were warmed up, but by then it was too httP." 
Tlw ganw was dominatnd by thP young Walsh offense from thn ouL-,et. 
Aftnr an unsuccessful drive by Farlr.y, Walsh drove up the field and sc:orcd the first touchdown of tlrn game led by quartrrbar,k Gn\tr,hen Mrlntvre. Alternate quarterback Lau;en Walsh took control of the offense for the point after. however. 
"Usuallv, he (r,oar,h StcvP Dillenburger) starts me, and then Lauren (Walsh) will go in," said :vlclntyrr.."And he'll rotate us as rn~eded. This time I played a lot more than usual, though. The running plays were really work­ing and the offense opened up a lot of holes for me." 
Hogan named the Wild Women's flexible offense as one. of the for,tors that contributed to unhinging Farley's defense. 
"We had a tough time stopping the run." he said. "Thfly ran a lot of differrnt misdirection plays that we hadn't seen before. The experienr,c will br good for us in tlrn long run." 
Following Walsh's early touch­down, Farley called a time-out to regroup. 
They remained unable to pull it together. howrvcr. as quarter­back Jrnnv Geraci threw threP incomplrtc· passAs. 
"Wo were foeling the pres­sure," Gnad said. "Their defense was really good at get­ting in to the quarterbar,k. I'd say that was the most defensive pres­sure wA've come up against." 
The srr,ond half of the game looked somewhat brightnr for Farley. as tlrnir offense settled into the game and was able to get the Finest on the scoreboard. Derensr also looked tighter as· Farley got more of a fed /'or the Yaried Walsh plays. 
"It's important to note that we wore missing some key players on defensr, like Hebecca Glatz." said Hogan. "The girls who filled in played well. but they weren't as experienced." 
Lauren Walsh stayed at the helm of Walsh's offense for much of the ser,ond half. in Walsh's first possession, she was able feed the ball once again to Kenny, who ran to Farley's five for a Walsh first down. 
The Wild Women quickly con-verted yards to points· as Walsh threw to Jen Lynch for their sec­ond touchdown of the game. 


Farley took advantagr of a penalty called on Walsh and put together their first scoring drive of the game. On a fourth down play, Geraci passed to McKay. who ran it in for Farley's first score or the game. The Finest then sucr,essfully went for the subsequent two-point r,onver­sion. 
With only four minutes remaining on the clock. howevrr, the Finest wore unable to catch up to the Wild Women. who hardly faltered in remainder of lhe second half. 
"I don't know what happPned -it took us half the game to get going. and they were a good tf1am, so you can't expert to br sleeping for half the game and still win," said llogan. "But we're not out ofit by any means." 
The Finest will play Breen Phillips this Tuesday. 
"I think we'rp in t.h1\ running this year for thP playoffs," said Walsh. 
The Wild Women's next match-up will be against the l\kGlinn Shamro1:ks. 
Pasquerilla West 7, McGlinn 6 
It's all part or the Notre Dame folklore: the grn<rn jerseys, unfa­miliar turf, trailing at the half. and a last minute drive down the field. The script was thAre for the Shamrocks on Sunday. 
Unfortunately, the pen was in the hands of a Purple Weasel. as PW topped McG!inn 7-6 on Stepan fields. 
Both teams got o!T to a rocky start in the first half. The Weasels' first drive was stalled by an interception, and McGlinn proceeded to turn the ball back over on a loss of clowns. 
The pace picked up on PW's 
second possrssion. Captain 
Amanda Gallen started things off 
with a 30-yarcl run down the 
field. 

Quarterback Leslie Schmidt took over from there, finding senior Kori Yelle in the end zone for the PW tour,hdown. Gallen provided what would turn out to be a crucial extra point for the Purple Weasels. 
The Shamrocks could not respond on their next attempt. The PW defense allowed three receptions by junior Christa Gray, but the McGlinn movement stopped there. 
Quarterbar,k Jodie Greaney was sacked by Alanna Lungren on third down, and the Shamrocks couldn't get enough for the first down. 
The Shamrocks and Purple Wensels saved the best ar,tion for last in the second half. 
PW seemed to be in control aftrr two consecutive sacks on Greaney. The Purple Weasels took the ball over at midfield, but Leslie Schmidt's first pass was interrnpted by Becca Williams. who sprinted down the sidelines for a McG\inn touchdown. Unfortunately for thr. Shamrocks. Grcanr.y's Axtra point pass was broken up. and they still trailed by one. 
Thn Shamrock del'ense was drtermined to give the offrnse one more shot at a score. Becca Williams came up big again, sacking Leslie Schmidt and forc­ing PW to punt with just over one minute left in the game. 
Greaney completed a 20-yard pass to Gray, and the Shamrocks seemed to be on their way to vic­tory. 
However. Greaney's next pass was intercepted by ironwoman Amanda Gallen, and the Purple Weasels squeaked out a win. 
"We've had three close games this season. but our defense has been really good," said Gallen. 
McGlinn coach Geoff Heiple was disappointed with the loss. but he remains positive. 
"We need to work on our exe­
cution," said Heiple. "The plays 
are there, so we don't need to 
change our strategy." 
l saW 

·corps, d
"°With j\nlert eighborhoo
nd tll-Y n 
,,
beyoth first titlle• 
for e 
After graduating from college, Josh Borus joined AmeriCorps to help the youngest members of his community-and he discovered a whole new world. As a teacher's aide in a low-income neighborhood near his home in Boston, Josh worked with students well beyond the regular school hours and provided support they often didn't get at home. "If you see a problem, you have a responsibility to do something about it," Josh 
says. ~AmeriCorps gave me that chance." 

Post-Graduate Volunteer Fair, Wednesday, September 27, 2000 6pm-9pm, Stepan Center. For more information contact Courtney Nicholas at (312) 353-0574 or 
cnicholas@cns.gov. 
AmeriCorps:Are you up to the challenge? 
1-800-942-2677 www.americorps.org/joining 



page 20 The Observer• ~PORTS Tuesday, September 26, 2000 
MEN 's INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 

Dawgs' defense holds off Griffins in narrow victory 
By TODD NIETO, JAivlES 
VERALDI and MATT CAS­
SADY 
Spores Writers 
Oespite a gritty effort by Lim Stanford defense, the Alumni Dawgs rnntinued on thoir path to Notre Dame Stadium with their second cons1icutive shutout 7-0. 
Other than an early touchdown by Alumni. the defomms dictated lhe action and forcod frustration on the opposing ollensos. 
"Our dtifense won the game. Stanford played really well, and we were happy to get some points on the board," said Alumni captain Mitch Karam. 
Alumni got all the points they needed on their opening drive with a 30-yard strike from fresh­m c II quarterback Chris Cottingham to wido receiver Jon Bevilacqua. Hrandon Nunnink nailed the extra point to put the Dawgs up for good. 
From that point on the Alumni defense held ils ground. Lim~backer Baily Siflgfriod, defen­sive end Tommv Dmnko and cor­m1rback Nathan Trimmnr led the "Dawhry D". 
Siegfried provided pressure over lhe middle of llw. field with five tackles and a couple key pa'is brmtk-ups. Dmnko put the heat on the Stanford quarterback v11it.h two sacks. Trimmer came through with a pa<;s brnak up on 3rd and 12 from the Alumni 46 and an interception that sealed the.deal !.ttc in the gam1). 
"It was a dcfonsive battle. Wn played good considering practice was hard to get in. They were a pretty good team and we are looking forward to next week." said Siegfried. 
A key turning point came in the third quarter. Stanford had stopped the Alumni olfonse forc­ing a punt that would have given them the ball in good tield posi­tion. However. one of Stanford's return men got caught up with Pat Paquette of Alumni and was called for a holding. giving Alumni another chance to get a first down. and they did on a pownrf'ul 4th and 1 run by tail­back Alex Hoodhouse. 
The Stanford defense played a solid ganw, !Pd by defensive ends Shamus liol11n and John Dickas, and dc•l'ensive tackle Josh Kaakua. Tht!y continually shot down the 1\lumni oiTAnse and put their olfrnsc in a good position to win the ganw. 
The problem for Stanford was their o!T.-ns,;, which was held scornlPss for the sAcond straight week. Ewn with an impressive pcrforn11rnre by tailback JC Perez, tlw ( ;l"illin's offensA could not pul any poinL'i on the board. 
"Our cl.Pl('llse played really well. Thny just gave up a couple big early plays," said Stanford coach Brendon Gearv. "Our offense IH\('ds to get on track. We should do IHillPr next week." 
Alumni improved to 2-0 and tlrn sn.1.son and will meet 1-1 Kerman 1wxl week. Meanwhile Stanford drops to 0-2 and awaitc; a winless ()'J\lpilJ team Sunday. 
Keough 14, Morrissey 0 
Sunda\· 111"11·rnoon the Keough Kangar;ws won their season opening i11tPrhall football game against llin Morrissey Manorites 14-0. 
ThP !\fonurites have started the season with a 0-2 record. 
By tlw .-ml or the first half, Keough was up on the Manoritcs 7-0. Thn 1'1~m1gh touchdown was a result of' a long bomb from sophomorP quarterback Andy !less lo rn~shman wide receiver Brian Adams. 
.Keough's dnfonse was solid throughout llw game as senior Paul Didio intercepted three Manorih~ passes. 
"Our ddi•nst! was really strong and wm; ,vhat won us the game," said captain nyan Yorkery. 
The sc1:011d Keough touchdown was a rnsult of another long pass from Andy I IPss to receiver Brian Adams. 
Early in Lil!' third quarter, the ManorilC's hi•gan moving the ball, 
Happy 21st Birthday, 
Hot Mamal 
Love, Rocco's Dark Triangle & Co. 
but another turnover eliminated their hopes of scoring, Keough defensive player, Michael Wilson, recovered the ball when a Manorite running back was stripped. 
Late in the fourth quarter. the Manorites b<>gan making their way downfield again. They had the same rnsults whim they encountered tho Kangaroo defense and could not score. 
Dillon 16, Keenan 0 
With a lot or pep and a second half rallv, Dillon forced Keenan to "revue'' what went wrong Sunday as the Big Rfld defeal.ed the Knightc; lh-0. 
rar from the festivity and laughter provided annually by two of' Notre Dame's most popu­lar dorm events, no one was kid­ding around when two of inter­hall football's undefeated teams collided at Stepan Fields. 
"Dillon played really hard," said Keenan captain Herb Ginrgio. "I don't think we really matched their intensity level." 

Interested in aunique experience?? 
DIV Cross Mission 
in Coachella, CA Seminar 
"Immersion in the Latino Community and Holy Cross Parish" January 2-9,2001 
Informational Meetings: 
Wed., Sept. 27 7:30pm@CSC Thurs., Sept. 28 9:00pm @CSC 
CENTER FOR
-¦ 
~ 
In the first half, however, nei­ther offense looked particularly inspired as the defenses con­trolled the game early on. 
After Dillon Junior Chris Crane returned a Keenan punt to the Keenan 33 yard line, Dillon's offense came alive. Junior quar­terback Tayl Odom found senior fullback Jason Visner who rum­bled toward the Keenan goal lino where he was forced out at the onA inch line. 
"I thought I was in," said Visner. "But the referee didn't see it that way." 
The ball was placed just an inch from the Keenan goal lim1 and Dillon had just one play remaining before halllime. Odom was hAld out of lhe rmd zone to end the half. 
Dillon coach Omar Munoz approached the goal line stand Vvith guarded optimism. 
"f knew that could have shifted the momentum in their favor," he said. "But in that situation you have to refocus on what got you [inside the Keenan one,] not on the negative that you didn't get in 
!the end zone!." Giorgio agreed with Munoz's assessment. 
"That goal line stand really pumped the defense up." he sairl. "We thought it could have turned the game in our favor. In the sec­ond half the defense came out with more intensity, but we kind of got discouraged when the offense couldn't I establish itself'.]" 
After alternating 3 and out pos­sessions in the second half. Dillon took over on ils own 32. The Big Rerl then embarked on a drive that would effectively end Keenan's hopes of winning the gam<>. Dillon kept the ball on the ground seven straight plays. Visner Crane and .JP Camardo each carried the hall for Dillon as the Big Red plowed through Keenan's defensive front. Finally Visner bullied his way into the end zone from five yards out and, following the two point convPr­sion. the score was 16-0. 
"This game was a wakn up call,'' he said. "We have a lot to work on b~fore we play Alumni next week. 

Tuesday, September 26, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL Goto LEAGUE 

iil'IJIINS 


Sunday-Monday-Tuesday-Wednesday 5:00 -7:00 PM 
LARGE CHEESE PIZZA 
$5.55 
Notre 1J,4me.-$aint; Mary.'s · 271-1177 271-7272 
Monday-Thursday 11 am• 1 am Friday-Saturday 11 am -3 am Sunday Noon -1 am 

"The mosf popul.ar # on campus"'· 
Don't Stall Call 911 • \me1ican ~e_ar1 n" 
, • A~soc1a110n V" 
J'lllng Hearl 01!.ease and Stroke 
By KATIE HUGHES and 
ANTHONY HUGHES 
Spom Writers 
McGlinn hasn't won a game yet, but the Shamrocks are counting on a team effort for a win tonight against Walsh. 
The team is looking to quar­terback Jody Greaney, receivers Catherine Corke and Mary Lenzini, and defensive players Rebecca Williams and Brianne McNicholas for solid . pr,rformances in th0 game. 
"We lost to Farley 7-6 last week, but we've sl~own great improvements between our lirst and second game. We're looking to get our offense in gear and counting on our line­backers. If we compkite pass­es we should do well," said McGlinn captain Jamie Glasser. 
The Walsh Wild Women find no reason to mess with the techniques they have used in the sr,ason thus far. Undr,feated in their last three games, they beat Farley 13-8 most recently. 
"Our defensive line came up big in our last game, pressur­ing the quarterback. Rebecca Craig. Angela Polsinelli we-re great on defense. Tiara 

McGlinn looks for first victory 
bright IY.l!J,CISYLVANIA 
OSRAM SYLVANIA is known around the world for innovative lighting solutions and qua/;,y products. Our dedication to a brighter future extends to your career, and we have exciting opportunities available for recent graduates who share in our commitment to excellence and quality. 
The projects are real -ENGINEERING, FINANCE, HUMAN RESOURCES, INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY, MANUFACTURING, and ¥ARKETING. As a participant in OSRAM SYLVANIA's Associate Development Progra,n, you will be personally responsible for addressing and completing challenging assignments in our core businesses andfunctions. 
We're looking for people with exceptional academic and personal achievement, 


initiative and a willingness to relocate every eight months while putting their special talents to the test. Upon successful completion ofthe two year program, your skills and performance will be consideredfor regular position openings in the company. 
OSRAM 
I 
SYUIANIA

A.<rk your career placement office for information about our,n-campuJ recruiting opportunities or to learn more visit our web page al 
WWW. !Ii y Va,,,a.com 

Jefferson had an intercep­tion," said Walsh captain Melissa Beiting. 
Like McGlinn, Walsh will also be looking for teamwork to bring home a victory. 
"We're hoping to come out with a good team effort by both the offense~ and defense and come out with a victory," said Beiting. 
Breen Phillips vs. Farley 
As mid-season play begins in Women's Gold League, urgency becomes a part of the lives of a few teams. One of those teams includes the Breen-Philips Babes as their regular season record is cur­rently a 0-1-1. 
With a disappointing loss to the Off-Campus team and a very hard fought tie to Badin, the Babes look for guidance in several of their key players. For a good win the defense is a must according to captain Jenny Wahoske. 
With great play from their defensive and offensive lines, led by Natasha Potter and Wahoske, a tum-around in the season is a great possibili­ty. 
"If we· maintain our improvement, good things can happen," says Wahoske. Kelly Deckelman will also be a key player to watch. In Sunday's game against Badin, Deckelman ·had an intercep­tion late in the game that she nearly ran for a game-winning touchdown. It's plays like this that the Babes will need throughout the season and are capable of producing. 
On the other side of the field will be a strong Farley squad. Led by captain Rebecca Glatz. Parley's finest will also be hoping to improve on their 1-2 record. In another "now or never" situation, the team looks to its captain Rebecca Glatz as well as defensive standout Jen Morgan on thfl line. 
"We have a strong defense," says Glatz. "We're definitely looking for them to step it up." 
Offensively, the Finest will be led quarterback Jenny Geraci and running back Katie Buffalino. The team is looking for a lot of support from the sidelines and teamwork on the field. With these ingredients, they have a great chance to win the game, according to freshman Erin Fitzpatrick. 
The game will be held Tuesday night at 9 p.m. under the lights at Stepan Field. 
A UDITION s 
ND Opera 
Fri, Sept 29 2:45-5:15 pm 
Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art 
Please bring one aria or song (from memory) and music 
for the pianist. An accompanist will be provided. Solo roles or chorus open for Spring Semester ND Opera production of a work by Handel. 
Call 1-6201 for more information. 
AUDITIONS 
When the game is on the line, we're there for you! 


e FREE Checking  •Low-Interest Student Loans  
• Convenient ATMs  e FREE Visa Check Card  
• FREE Internet Banking  • Great Rates on Auto Loans  

'I}.. 

~@ NOTRE DAME 19033 Douglas Road 
~m~ci; FEDERAL CREDIT UNION Notre Dame, IN 46556 Independent of the Univei:sity For People. Not for Profit. 800/522-6611 www.ndfcu.org 
WIN A TRIP 
FOR TWO TO 
AFRICA 

This year the cast of MN's 'The Real World' went to Africa. 
Now you can too! 
"'~ 
~o~ 

Enter for a chance to win at your local Council Travel office or at counciltravel.com 
This trip to Africa is provided by 
_: 
• 

~-v1rg1n 
far18to35y-old• 
at/antic 

No Purchase Necessary. Open to residents of U.S .. between the ages of 18 and 35 as of 9/5/00. Void where prohibited. See agency for Official Rules or go to counciltravel.com. Sweepslakes ends 10/15/00. 
~---­
counciltravel.com 1-800-2COUNCIL 
000 SYDNEY 2000 000 

Tuesday, September 26, 2000 
WOMEN'S GYMNASTICS 
IOC strips Raducan of gold after positive drug test 
Olympic gamin '.'fadia Com,11wri. \\'inkr gamrs in Salt Lake and

• Olympic officials 
was stripped or IH\r all-around 200-t summ<1r g'ames in Athrns.blame doctor for g(J!d m<'dal Ttwsd:ty :tl"tPr tt•sling l~aduran is the first gymnast to µosi1iv1, !'or a ba.111rnd drug, I)(' sLrippcd of a medal because
prescribing drugs 
H11mania11 gymnast /\ll(lr1•na of a drug violation. and is the lladucan's !irst t1·st sampl1· r,u1w second athlcito at these g,1mcs to

Associ~te.l Press back positivP for sti111ula11h.'llw lost' .i goltl. She is tho sixth posi­
l{omanian !Pam doctor who gaVf' tivr• drug caso at tlw SydneySYllNFY. Australia 
tlw 1<i-vear-old Hadura11 1111• ( ;;tllH'S. A11drn1•a l!aducan. t.lw pinl­

drug-in 'two cold 11wdirnw pills Thomas Bach. of thP sizPd llornunian ~ymnasl wllosP 
was t':\!)l'll('d from !'11· g.i1111•s l11t1·rnational Ol_vmpiclooks and talent remind many of' 
and suspPndt•d thrnul-(h tlw ~002 Committen's ext'.t'.Utivf' board, rnnlirnwd tlw board's dPcision and plar,•d tho blanw on the doctor '"] In pn•scribPd the nwd­irntion to this girl. It'.s a good sig­nal Lo ,ill tlw p1iopl<• surrounding tlw athlPlPs that lh!W can bP punisilt'd" · 
lladucan was allowrd to keep il('r othnr nrnclals, a gold from tlw \t'am compNition and a sil­VPI' l'rom tlH' vault. 
l!aducan tested positiv,, for ps1•udoephidrnnc. whirh is on the IOC's list of bannrd stimu­lanh. Hach said. 
Slw underwent three dilTPrcnt tests aftc1· each competition, BaC'li said. She testnd negative artn llw Homanians won the team gold last Tuesday. but posi­tiVI' allrr slw won the all-around Thursday. 
Slw t<'strd negative aftnr win­ning a silVl'r in lhr vault Sunday. 
KAT Photo 

With Hadur·an's disqualifica­tion. anoth11r Hornanian. Simona Romanian Andreea Raducan receives a gold medal last week in Amanar. gets the gold in the the All-Around, but lost it Tuesday, due to a positive drug test. indi\·idual all-around competi­10. Mndiaf'ax rnported. II<' did not tion. and l<~arnmat<~ Maria Olaru ln Sydney, Haducan bncanw attend nnws confnrnnces follow-go<'S l"rom bronze lo silvnr. Liu the first llomanian to win thrall-ing Monday's competition. Xu<111 of China. tlrn original around ti Un sinn~ Comarwci. The This isn't the first drug contro­l"ourlh-plarn finishr.r. now gets Homnnians also had thP first v,•rsv for tlw Homanian t<•am in tlw bronz<• mndal. swi•Pp or tlw all-around sinf'f' tlw SydriPy. Two wPightliftPrs wPrr' Willi h1'r dark hair and rvns /"orm1'r SoviPL Union did it in expPIIPd for railing prP-ganw. ,lnd pin(-sizPd franw, Hadu1:.an l'J(,O. out-of-1·omprtitio'n tPsts. ThP has drawn comparisons to T1·am co,tch Octavian Bl'lu 1•ntir<' \\'Pightlirting tPam rarPd Kr::; ,oto Coma11P1:i. who at the Montn~al thrralPnl'd to withdraw thP !wing kirkPd out. but paid a Andreea Raducan performs her floor exercise last week. :oc 01\·mpics in 197h bC'canw tlw who!<' V'am f'rom tlw ganw.s. tlw $:i0.000 lirw to allo\\' tlw "ri<'an" officials ruled Raducan may keep two of her three med.iis lirsl gymnast to scorn a prrfoct privalt' llomanian rwws ag1•ncy WPightlirtPrs to stay. 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Johnson repeats 4( 0-meter gold-medal performance 


onships -all oi"li" ;,1 gold.

Associ,ttt·d Press 
.. , dicl11·1 w.1111 11, last Olympic r.t{'.(: to lw a liri,11zl' 11r o1 -;iivl'r or an~'lhing but SYDNl:Y. Australia gold ... 111' said. , :.::1 \\as tlw big motiva­Mil'!iaPI .Johnson has known onlv 0111• tor 1lw1 I was 11i111:, '\. about all day today f'olor in major intc•rnational f'h,~mpi­was just liasirnii: ·,·ping my n•p11taLion 
onships -gold. intarl." .Johnson bnl'anw tlw first man to rnpnal In his lrnd1•111.i1·!: •.1_1·ln ol'runningstand­as an Olympic 400-ing vi1·tuall.1· st; 1c;ht up. a la fosse 
For more Olympic

mnl!\r champion with (h,·1·11s. .!11hns1111 11, ,·r was sPriousl:v chal­a wir1•-to-wirl' tri­coverage see l1•11g1•d. 
umph Monday night ""II 11·;1s tou,gl1 I 1;,1-rison was running
page 14

in 43. 8 4 s1\rn1Hls. Wl'II and I did11·1 1,: ,,\1' a V1\ry g·ood lann." 
0 :it, st>rnncls alwad .Johnson -.;;iicl. '"l::1 :,,ally, I had to go in 
Df l11,urnrnttP :\lvin I larrisnn. lhcr<' ;tnd tl'ii 111 .. •·II' jusl d11 11hat l'w) 
Mirhatd .Johnson·s styln or running lw1·n doing 1"111· t'.., last IO .1·1•ars. not strnigh1 up lwlpPd tlw U.S Iii its ninlli 1-l worn ,1 IJ11ul 11·11;1 · ,c.;oing-011 lwhind mn linish in llw 400 nwtl'l"s ;Lt tlw Olympirs. and jusnu11 1lw .-,. ·,· I knew.I ri1uld run." 
"You know how I f1•d about making-his­11,, s;1id Ii(' d1r:;, '-;ll out as !"a.st as lrn 

lorv." .Johnson said. "and lo I)!' abll' 0 l<1 do nonnalh would i" ,·,nrsc lw \\HS out in th,LL and i•nd my O!ympk rnn•m· lik<· !hat la1w si:-:·,u,d \\11<11" ,·t b<' itbh• to sc1\ his is a dr<'am conw tn11•." toug[ll'sl 1·oi111wti1 •· , .ts lhny round1•d tho 
It ,,as llw ninth linw llw Unitnd Stall's turns. has gon<· 1-2 in tlw ('V<'nl. and third in tlw "I just l11•ld a Iii:!, liit for tlw 1•nd in r..tse last four Olympics. I'd li1tr1· so11w 11·11t.:,:,•." he said. 
\Vlwn t.lw rac1• was ovnr. the sc<'l1f' was \\'lw11 it ,1·as ,,,., ... _.Johnson raised his KRTPholO far i<'ss <'nwtional !111111 tlrn onP that 1"111-arms in 11·iun1pl1. :: .. : Llwn' \\',L, 110 lhrnw­Teammates Michael Johnson and Alvin Harrison celebrate their top finishes in the 
[om•d Johnson's world-rnrord tri11111plr in inJ.( llw slirn•s i11i, ,ii€' fTowd. as h1• has 400 meter Monday. Johnson earned the gold and Harrison grabbed the silver. tlw 200 nwtpr-; four y1·.ars ago in th1· dorw !J1•1"nn•. Tli,·.~ ,111lf,s hav;• drnpl<•Ls or big, bright smile !hal Johnson saves f"or Olympic gold Pight yPars ago in .\t.lanta Ca11ws. That victorv. in an i11r1Td­gold in lill'111. 11, . ,:dd knPµ llwm. Aflnr such 0tT.tsions. Ba.rrnlona. ibl(i l ').:12 S€'conds, lltad€~ him llw lir·st 
nil. 1hl'I ll1«1[rl11·,• ;, ..rhis medals. llis individual Olyrnpir 1·ttl'N1r is owr. "Thn rnlay has always b111rn fun." Im man lo win llw :wo and 400 in thn sc1111<' .lllh1i°s1111 and , : ·•·ison narh graLlrnd but h1' has one mor1'. race to run in said. "but I think this racn knowing it will illymµics. A11wr1<·a11 lfog~ ;,;.,. parndnd with !.Imm Syd no:v -the anchor Ing or thP 1.fiOO bn my last Olympic racn <wnr and having 
Johnson has won four Olympic nll'dals tog1•tl11•r an>11111,; ,rack. mctt\rs Saturday. I In will finish with the some good guys to run it with. it will be and nine mort! in the world charnpi-011 Llw 111,•,l;il ,.. ,...1. th1irn \\",ts just that same race in which ht} won his first good just to rnally enjoy the moment." 


Tuesday, September 2G, 2000 
FO\,JRTH AND INCHES 
THE AMERICAN PASSES OVT!! THE AMERICAN PASSES OVTll 
Tl-tIS HAS TO REALLY HVRT 
THEIR MEDAL CHANCES, VIN 

Fox TROT 
The Observer . TODAY 
TOM KEELEY 
OHHH! A !5.0 FROM THE RUSSIAN JUDOO THIS AMERICAN IS GOING HOME EMPTY-HANDED! 
BILL AMEND 

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
page 23 
TYLER 
WHATELY 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 Place.tor 63 Like eyes during washing a boring speech 
1 Keep--on 
instructions 66 Subdivision(watch) 35 Ambulance 67 Sea duck 5 Largest city in 

personnel, for 
68 SwerveNebraska short 69 Circus safety 10 Computer 

36--Baba equipment

operator 37 Can't stop 70Woman's14 Lifetime Oscar thinking about undergarmentwinner Kazan 
something 
11 Equips for war 15 Bars of soap 

39 Vampire slayers 

16 Botanical joint 
42 It may test the 
DOWN

17 "American waters 
Graffiti" actress 1 "Rambling
43 Shade trees 19Thwart Wreck From 
47 Bring to bear 

20 Where bandits Georgia--"·
48 Newlyweds' trip 

hole up 2Jai-­51 Army shelters 
21 Caulking 3 Fasten material 52 Rudolph and 
4 Marquis de -­
teammates

22 Hot rod 5 Take place 54Gush
26 Steps that cross 6 Digestive afence 57 Flow (from) enzyme 30 Mountain in Rio 62 Magnificent 7 Letters before an de Janeiro display alias 8 Part of H.M.S. 
9 InquireANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Roll out 11 Combustion by.product 12 Not leave alone 13 Have faith 18 Alpine songs 21 For .each one 23 It comes in sticks 24 Three-striper: Abbr. 25 Soviet news agency 26 Indolence 27 No-no 28 "Peer Gynt" playwright 


Puzzle by Nancy Kavanaugh 
29 Businessman  49 Spews lava  59 Declare  
lacocca  5oStill  60Swarm  
31 Like some sturdy furniture 32 Notify of danger 33 Punchers  53 Nail file 54Madeaweb 55 Corn bread  61 Makes a boo-boo 63 Receive  
38 Tractor-trailer  56 Leave out  64 Tell a tall tale  
40 Foursome  58 Spectacular star  65 Build (on)  
41 Lizzie Borden  
used one  

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
44 Creepy Chaney 
are available by touch-tone phone: 45 "The--1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). Squad" 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 46 Reacted to dust, best of Sunday crosswords from the last maybe 50 years: 1-888-?·ACROSS. 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TI-ITS 
DAY: Mary Beth Hurt, Olivia New­
ton-John, George Gershwin, Julie 
London, Lynn Anderson, Ty Miller 
Happy Birthday: Think before 
you act this year, or you may be dig­
ging your way out of a deep hole. 
Stay calm, organized and frugal, and 
you will make it through the year 
ahead with flying colors. The payoff 
for being so disciplined will be well 
worth your patience, hard work and 
restraint. Put your resourcefulness to 
the test: Use everything you know 
and own to reach your goals. Your 
numbers: 12, 25, 31, 37, 44, 48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You 
can successfully pursue your person­
al goals. Travel, entertainment and 
creative endeavors should be on 
your mind. Self-improvement pro­
jects should be high on your list. 
000 TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
You'll have real-estate opportunities. 
Moves will be to your advantage. 
Family members may not agree 
with your decisions. Don't change 
your plans because of unreasonable 
demands. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Do 
not Jet others stand in your way. Fol­
low your heart. In-laws will cause a 
lot of grief if you allow them to inter• 
fere in your personal life. You have to 
make your own decisions. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Don't overspend on gift items, enter­
tainment or children. You should be 
focusing on doing a great job and 
maybe even putting in some extra 
hours. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your emo­
tional whims will drive your mate 
crazy. Your reluctance to do your 
share around home will cause family 
feuds. Try to be honest in your com­
munications, or nothing will be 
EUGENIA LAST 
resolved. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your hot temper will lead you off on a tan­gent. You are not likely to see situa­tions with clear vision Think twice before you point the finger at some­one or retaliate. Peers will not be accommodating. 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0cl 22): Roman­tic opportunities will come your way if you become involved in organiza• tional functions or are traveling. Accept the changes taking place in your home environment. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct 23-Nov. 21): Resi• 
dential problems are likely. Don't overload your plate, or you will never handle the disruptions. You may have to take a trip to straighten out a situation concerning relatives. 
000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will be drawn to exotic des­tinations. Book a trip that will fulfill your fantasies. Family members maybe upset with your travel choices, 
000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19)1 
Investments will end up costing more than you anticipated. Do not get involved in joint financial ven. lures. Put your energy into behind­the-scenes activities. Avoid secret 
affairs. 000 ­AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
You need to be entertained. Your spirits have been down. Pleasure trips and social activity may be the cure. You will want to have a greater involvement with children. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Social activities will be productive. You will attract members of the opposite sex with your compas­sionate interaction. Children will need your input in their creative endeavors. 0000 

Birthday Baby: You will rule due to your patience, goodwill and dedica­tion to your beliefs, family and your tradition You are extremely methodical and always willing to take a few extra moments to ensure that you are doing what's right. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name Address------------------­
City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 
---· ~· 


Back in Stride 
After suffering a series of tough losses, the Saint Mary's soccer team is back on track with a win Saturday over Adrian. 
PORTS 

page 18 
O
THE 


1980 Olympic boycott hits home for Notre Dame staff 

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associate Spores Editor 
A stab of regret hits Jill Lindenfeld as she struggles to watr,h the 2000 Olympic Games. 
Debbie Brown feels drawn to the events although see.ing the U.S. participants causes her a twinge of heartache. See Also 
Both Linden­

"Molloy: IOC drug tests 
feld. a Notre Dame assistant 

don't catch all users" 
professional spe­

page 1 
cialist in physical education. and Brown. the Notre Dame head volleyball coach. qualified for the 1980 Olympic Games in Moscow. Their chance to compete was ripped away when President .Jimmy Carter announced that the U.S. would boycott thf-1 Games because of USSR actions in AfghanisI.an. 
"! had rnLxed feelings. I can honestly say." said Lindenfeld. who qualified as part of thf> 
U.S. 
field hockev team in the first vear the Olympics includ;,d the sport. "[ originally felt proud, like it was kind of my duty. that the 

U.S. 
would be doing a lot of things against Afghanistan. and this was just one thing>But that didn't last very long because nothing really came out of it. It seemed useless and didn't seem to prove anything." 


Brown. a part of the first U.S. volleyball team to earn a berth in the Olympics. also grappled with the U.S. decision to boyr.ott the Games. 
"I think a lot of people really questioned the decision," Brown said. "When vou look at what the bovcott was meant to do and meant to accompli~h. did it accomplish what it was meant to'' No. To me, it was not the right 
thing to do, especially with the games meant to symbolize peace and unity." The boycott didn't come as a complete shock to the Amerir.an athletes. 
"Thero was talk early in January of 1980 of the possibility of a boycott," Brown said. "We really refused to believe it and hoped that things would work out and we would be able to go. It wasn't that we hadn't been prepar­ing ourselves for it. It was still a shock and a disappointment just to think that something you had been striving for for so long kind of vanished before your eyes. It was a really hard pi!I to swallow." 
The lost opportunity was a doubly difficult blow for Lindenfeld and Brown. Their teams were in strong positions to win medals. -and both women were reaching the ends of their careers. Lindenfeld, who still bubbles with enough energy to bowl over younger athlel!is, played on the U.S. field hockey team from 1971 to 1980. The team toured other nations every summer. seeking out top-notch tourna­menL'> in which to test their mettle. During the year, Lindenfeld was in school, first as an undergraduate at Westchester (Pa.I College, next as a local high school teacher and finally as a graduate student at USC. 
The '80 Games. the first to include field hockey, were her only chance for Olympic glory, as five knee operations began to take their toll on her body. 
"I knew I had had five knee opP.rations and been on the national team for nine years." Lindenfeld said. "It was my last chance. I wasn't going to be trying out in four years." 
Until Carter pulled the U.S. from con­tention. the field hockev tP.am was a favorite to win. Of the six tea.ms qualified for the Games. the U.S. was ranked third. rt had also beaten the top two teams in previous games. 
see BOYCOTT/page 17 

MEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
Penalties plague St. Eds in 21-7 loss to Sorin 
By COLIN BOYI.AN, TODD 
NIETO and JOHNNY 
LEITNER 
Spores Writers 
St. Edwards' football team r,ould have the makings of a potent run-and-shoot offense, if only it could stop shooting itself in the foot. 
A penalty-plagued 21-7 loss to Sorin left many of the St. Ed's players with a bad taste in their mouths as f1ags became the hall­mark of an otherwise relatively nondescript game. 
Sorin opened the scoring on a dPep pass play from quartPrback Pete BP.!edcn to receiver Antione Tobias. The Otters dominated with a solid running game, cappRd by two tour.hdowns from running back Dave KnPsek. In the end. it was St. Eds' mistakes that tipped the game in Sorin's favor. 
"We just killed ourselves with penalties." said quarterback Tim Greene. "It seemed like every time we had the ball we were facing a 2nd and 18." 
Not only did penalties give the Stedsmen unfavorable field posi­tion. but they also wiped out sev.­eral key passing plays. A 50 yard pass completion from Greene to receiver Nick Sciola was called back because a lineman moved too far downfield. Several other completions were also negated bv St. Eds' infractions. 
•Sorin simply played their stnmgths and let their opponent self-destruct. 
"We were a little disorganized on offense. but I think our defense played excellent," said Knesek. 
Sorin coach Fred Faber was very happy with the team's per­formance, considering the long layoff they experienced. 
"With an extra week to pre· pare, I think our team got a little lazy. We just wanted to get the first game out of the way and go from there." 
While Sorin looks well on its way to defending its Gold League Championship, St. Ed's is left to ask themselves how they can earn their first victory in recent memory. Utilizing the defensive abilities of cornerback Chris Kitalong could be a start. Early in the second half, Kitalong returned a Belden interception for a touchdown to cut St. Ed's deficit to 14-7. But the team could never capitalize on that momentum. 
Knott 20, Carroll 14 
With defensive dominance, the Juggs of Knott defeated the Vermin of Carroll on Sunday. 
The Juggs did not waste time scoring. In the lirst five minute'> of the game. Brian Pawloski sc(}red a touchdown putting Knott up 7-0. 
Throughout the gamP, Knott's fierct> defensive line helped hold the Vermin. The Knott defensP. 
see GOLD/page 17 

lnterhall Football -Results-
Sorin 21 St. Edwards 7 
Knott 20 Carroll 14 
Fisher 22 Zahm 14 
1~MC ar CALVIN acALBJON vs. VILLANOVA Today, 5 p.m. ~ Wednesday, 12 noon ~ Friday, 7 p.m. 
SPORTS 

Golf ATA e at HOPE COLLEGE Golf vs. SETON HALL vs. PITTSBURGH Saturday, cba vs. ALBION . Friday, 5:30 p.m. Friday, 7:30 p.m.
GLANCE 
Today, 6 p.m. 



