-
'Earth' is heavenly 
'Corky' realizes dreams 

Thursday
Scene relliews the latest teen romance Chris Rurke, "L({e GoPs On" actor. tells 
flick "Here on Earth." 
about life with Down syndrome . 
Scene . page 16 
News . page 3 

MARCH 30, 2000 

THE 




VOLXXXIII N0.112 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Welcome Center begins Master Plan construction 
By MOLLY McVOY Saint Marys Fditor 
This aflNnoon llw impl<'­mPntation of tlw Saint. Mary's Collngc Mast('r Plan lwgins with th<' groundbr<'aking cnr<'­mony for thP WPlcomc Cnnter and i)alloway's Col'fmdwusn. 
"I lhi11k it's significant that Wl'.rP beginning with tlrnse prnjnrts," said Marilou Eldred. Lim prr•sidPnl of thn Collcg(i. "Th<' WPlconw CPntnr will h<i a signal to both lhl' internal and PXl<'rnal rommunitv that WP arp a thriving romrminily." 
Tims<' two buildings rnprn­sm1 l thP lirst step in tlw 10­war Master Plan and will be 
iocatPd  near the  corner  of  
\ladt'lt>va  Driv1•  and  The  
.'\Vl'T1UP.  

"ThPy arn botl1 going to be fabulous additions to LIH\ ca 111­pus in lNms ol' hospitality for vbitors and a social spacn for not only Saiut Mary's stu­dents. but also fo1· Notre Dami'." said Hick Hussdl. vice prnsiclent of Collnge relations. '"It provides a unique place for studPnts and faculty to contin­ue intnrac.ting." 
Tim \\'drnnw Center's blue­prints have• bPPn finalized and tlw monny for the projnct has b(Wll sm:urnd . .Jim and Colleen nyan. nwmhc'rs of thr Saint Marv's Parent Council, donat­iid tiw $750.000 necessary for tlw building. 
"l.lim and 11 both think it's a wondnrl'ul limp, al Saint ~!ary's to (\nhance the cam­pus.'' C.ollecn Ryan said. "Whl'n you drive onto the campus, you g(1t this boautiful. lrnP-linrd driv(), hut no plare to gel information. There just wasn't a plar(~ for a friendly welcom<'." 
Colleen Hyan is a member of tlw Board of' TrustPcs. Two of thn Hvans· daughters graduat­ed l'riim Saint l\lary's in 1995 and 1997 and one will gradu­atn in 2000. 
The Tudor-style Wtilr.ome Center will provide informa­tion on the history of Saint Mary's and current campus <wents. 
"The \Velromn Center will be an extension of campus hospitality." Bussell said. "Its basically a placr for pnoplo to gf1t directions for places on the campus and in tho congre­gation. Tlrnn' will hr an area to display info about the col-1<,gc. the history am! current cYonts." 
Fldrnd agrned that hospital­ity is the main focus of the Wl'lcom<' Center. 
"!The Welcome Center! will rnpres{)nt the hospitality that C'liar,tt'.tcrizl'S the Sisters of th<i f-loly Cross and thf' College." she said. 
Dalloway's Coffeehouse will br sPrving thr same funrtion the old clubhouse near Holy Cross Hall now serves. It will S('l'VP as a host for student performers and speakers and offer food and coffee. Students will handle the management and programming ol' the cof­feehouse. 
"We want it to continue to be the same kind of social gathering for students [that the clubhouse was]." Eldred said. 
The building will have the 
see CENTER/page I 1 

Construction on Saint Afary's Welcome Center and Dalloway's Coffeehouse begins today. Plans (right and below) for the Welcome Center have been finalized, but College q[fi­cials are still finalizing plans for Dalloway s. 


Hundreds join marrow registry 
. 610 register, greatly surpassing expectations 
By ERIN PlROUTEK A~sol·i;1re New.\ Edit(1r 
G1innrally. when Notre Dame students spend hours waiting in line. l'ootball tickets ani involved. But yesterday, 
the La Fortune Ballroom 
o v e r • f' IO WC d with stu­d e n t s waiting to join the 


National 
Murphy

:\I arrow Donor Program (NMDP] registry. Hesponding to the rnquest of 
Zahm sophomore Conor Murphy, who was recently diagnosed with leukemia, 610 people joined the registry, exr·epding even the highest exp<1ctations for the event. 
Bone marrow transplants can be lifesaving to patirnts with leukemia and other blood diseases. Exact match­es arn rare; Murphy was lucky to find a match thcmgh the NMDP. Orga•nizers hope registering more people will help those like Murphy receive much-needed treat­ment. 
"WP arP stunn<'d hy just the incredible outpouring of sup­port for Conor," said Zahm rector Father .Jim Lies. "We had more people in the room the first hour than we expect­ed all day." 
The unexpected numbers required organizers to scurry for more volunteers and 

equipment. 
"It's a good problem," said volunteer Kate Voelker of the Junior League of South Bend. 
Combined efforts of the Notre Oame and South Bend community made the drive possiblr. Studr,nt volunteers joined community organiza­tions including Ancilla Health Care. the TTed Cross and the South Bend Medical Foundation. 
At one point the line of potential donors stretched from the second floor of La fortune, down the stair~ and hack to the Huddln. Many stu­dents waited for over two hours. 
"I wish Conor could see it." said sophomot·e Annie Sutera. 
Volunteers worked quickly to direct students through the maze of lines and ensure the 
see MARROW/page 4 

Prejean: Death penalty opposes human dignity 
By KA TE STEER 
Associate News Editor 
A standing room only crowd gathered in 101 Debartolo Wednesday to experience the dynamic speaking abilities and powerful message of Sister Helen Prejean. 
Prejean, who authored the Pulitzer Prize-nominated Dead Man Walking, spoke about her experience with the death penalty and death row and offered ways to work to make change in this realm. The death penalty, Prejean said. is a highly volatile issue; it often becomes an issue of justice for the victims' families opposing human dignity and rightc;. 
"What are we going to do with the outrage we foe!?" she asked of the response to heinous crimes. though she does not point to the death penalty as the answer. 
Prejean, a native of Louisiana, is a self-described "Southern story­teller" who began counseling death row inmates in her home state in 1981. Out of this experi­ence came the story Dead Man Walking that was published in 1993. It was subsequently made into a movie, which Prejean calls a "miracle film" for bringing the subject to the American public. 
"The film exists because Susan Sarandon is the midwifo of bead Man Walking," Prejean said. Sarandon read the book and pur­sued its production as a movie with the help of director Tim Robbins. Prejean praised the pair for their work for human rights. 
"If Tim Robbins is going to direct it, Susan Sarandon is going to have the leading role, and Scan 
see PREJEAN/page 6 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, March 30, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 



COPS: Live at 

Notre Daine 
Say what you will about the sheltered nalurc of college students, but one thing they have in common with "the real world" is their distrust of the law. Cops serve in a thankless profession. much like the militarv. !HS 
auditors and septic tank repairmen. And although their validity as "real" police o{fo'ers ba.s been r.!rn.llengcd latelv, thev am no less praismvorthy for their PfforL'>. Even ir they do wrUe me a lot of parking viola­tions. 
Most of vou have vour own 

homf'town anPcdot;s about Dustin Ferrell 
people who have had less 
than happy run-ins with the law, and you realize that our 
Notre Dame experiences 
pale in comparison. We have it made considering how South Bend's finest reel about us. (So NDSP. could vou. ub, take care of' 
lhosr. tickets for me? No? \Veil, il was worth a 
trv.i 
\Vhen thf' privileged lifo ol' a college student shelters him or her from the harsh realities lhat wait upon graduation, it can help to now and again remind the student how lucky he, or she, or it is to bP here. In this spirit. I would lik!' to seP our beloved flat-fool'> give us the treatmr.nt we deserve. 
To me, one word signifies a beneficial use of the tuition increases: Tasers. Lol'i of them, the kind that would put an elephant on its duff. These toys would help us make great strides in reaching an unprec1"dented level or respect and obedience. You don't want a ticket? Fair enough, I'll turn you into a human night light. 
And while we're discussing friendly devices, I'd like to recall the "mini-riot" that occurred last year. One thought kept crossing my mind: why don't they have tn1r gas'? And you think parietals are harsh now. Besides, working at the gate must get rather monotonous, and it would be more fun to fire canistPrs at students walking from the 'Backer. If there are any questions as to the effectiveness of this happy gas, the Sierra Club and PETA could probably provide thorough testimonials. not to mention videotapes. 
But let us not digress to a topic or past columns. I would not suggest that using tear gas or rubber bullel'> on students would be goud in any way, even if we could make some great blooper videos from the whole deal. Our campus law enforcement could accomplish some serious good if they acted in the same manner as so­railed "real" r,ops. Take. for example, the con­troversial "racial profiling" that occurs in police dcpartmenl'> around our nation. Hegardless of how immoral you consider this, I want you to consider a new concept: preppie proiiling. 
This would be built on less inf1ammatorv but similar logic: statistically speaking, preppies have the most complaints and cause the most trouble with Notre Dame Security Police. Therefore, random checks of vehicles rontaining preppies would help decrease these incidents and deter them. Just when you thought it was sale to drive around campus in your sport utility vehicle. · 
"J-ley thimi Chadwick, have you been watching 90210? I think you'd better step out or the car..... 
Fear not. my friends. if you find my ideas about law enforcement a bit fascist. vou can take comfort in knowing that these people will never trP.at us the way we sometimes deserve. 
'/'hf' 11iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
Scene 
News Ma[[N,mia Frin L3Rnffa Beth Goodhue Kelly Hager Graphics 
Colleen McCanhv Jose Cuellar 
Sports Production 
Molly McVoy L.1un.:n f\~rrig,in 
Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Lib Haughey Pete Richar<lson 
Th" Ohserwr (US!'\ '5'l'l 2",\000) is puhli,hcc\ :,,1.,n,l.1y chrn11gh Fritl.1y t'Xu-p1 Jurin~ rx.1m ,rnd v,11,.;.11 ion p.:riulk TlH.: Ohst'rw:r is .1 membc:r tithe 1\510,1:llt"d. Press. All rcprm.l11c, ion rip.hrs ,ire-rt..·5t't\1t'd. 

THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 
Thursday  Friday  Saturday  
. Health Fair: 3 to 7 p.m.;  . lecture: "Averting  . Event: "E-CommPrce  
LeMans Lobby; Saint  Nuclear Anarchy: The  Conference," 1 p.m., Bond  
Mary's  Current Crisis in Arms  1lall Auditorium  
. Acoustic Cafe: Student  Control," 1995 Nobel  . lecture: "A Comment on  
musicians perform; 9  Peace Prize winner  Genesis: Plato's 'Timaeua·  
p.m.: the Huddle.  Joseph Hotblat; 7 p.m.:  and Kepler's Astronomy,"  
Lafiorturn~  Jordan Auditorium  Rhonda Martens; 3:45  
p.m.; McKenna Hall  

Sunday 
. 
Event: "Misa en Espanol:" 1:30 p.m.; Keenan-Stanford Hall 

. 
Event: Lenten Vespers: 


4:30 p.m.; Church ol' Our Lady of' Lorntto, Saint Mary's 


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Purdue students continue hunger strike 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 

Six students at Purdue Univorsity entered day three of a hunge1· stri.ke in protest of swealshop labor within the collAgiate licensing industry. Th<> studonts have rnsig1rnd thomsclvns to not eating and living in tents on Memorial Mall. an open park an~a in the center of' the Purdue University campus. 
B!m Partridge, a junior participant, said the hunger strike is an 1~tfort to prnssurn the Univr.rsity to join the Worker's Bights Consortium, a facto­ry-monitoring agency. 
IU signed on to the WHC on Feb. 
18. along with the University or Michigan and _the University of' Wisconsin. Since that tim<>, 12 other universities have joined. including Loyola University of Chic:ago and New York Universily. 
"President Beering lives in the lap 

P U R D U E BOILERMAKERS 
ol' luxury and is l'ar romovod from actual human suffering," said Marikah Mancini. a member of the activist group Purdue Stud!rnts Agitinst Sweatshops .{PASA\."Wc want to bring the reality of' human suffering closer to his attention. llopef'ully, the hunger strike should make him realize that this institu­tion, funded by taxpayer's dollars, is complicitous in human suffering." 
Since October, PSAS has been in discussions with tho administration and a committee was fornrnd to assess the issue, according Lo Purdue's newspaper, The Purdue Exponent. 
"We havn negotiatnd with them in good faith but we won't allow them to pressure us into joining the WHC." said Joe Bennett, vico presidnnt of Purdue Univ!'rsitv rPlations. · 
"We haven't r~lcd it out of course, but. our perspective is that we don't know cmough about it. Saying that we are stalling is a gross misrepre­sentation. Presently. our main con­cnrn is that no on!~ causes them­selves bodily harm in the hunger strike." · 
"I am going to stay out her!' as long as I physically can," commented Partridge. "BPering could end this right now." 

MSU examines ancient skeleton 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 
This week Michigan Staln University anthropolo­gists will begin examining 3,000-year-old human skeletal remains found at a Bay City construction sitR. Bay City officials granted the university pormission Tuesday to examine the remains. found Friday by MSU archeologists in four-and-a-half' feet of sand dur­ing a routine search for historical objects at a planned construction site. The archeologists were examining an area slated for construction later this year. "That sometimes happens that, when we're doing fieldwork. we find human remains." said William L<ivis, an anthropologist and MSU Museum curator. An extensive archaeological dig will take place in May to search for artifacts at the construc­tion site. Lovis said he and other MSU scientists will look for stone tools. pottery, food storage pits and !ire pits to dotermine what culturr. liw~d in the area. MSV was given permission to begin tests on the remains to determine the age. gender and whether the body was buried with others after the Bay County medical examiner declared the remains did not require an 
Tornado misses TCU campus 
FOHT WOHTII, Texas 
A tornado that causrd rxl<rnsivr damage in down­town Fort Worth Tuesday nvcning forced 'foxas Christian University students on campus into base­ments and lo"".er-level floors of residence halls and buildings. TCU Police reported that the powerful winds caused no damago on campus. During thCT storm. police officers evacuated students and staff to the lowest lrvel of each building, said Jon Carter, a TCU police officrr. "We sent all of the kids down to the basement in all the buildings," Carter said. "We just got word of thr possi­bility of sevnre weather and went into action." The majority of the damage sustained occurred in central and northern parts of downtown, according to an Associated Prnss report. t\ tornado emergency was in pffect. as severe thunderstorms brought rain. softball­sized hail ,tnd strong winds. according to the report. I lall director Bevin Kurtz said she lrnard about tlw tor­nado after it hit tlrn driwntown area. "A resident assis­tant made the announcement. and we all went down­stairs sounding airhorns on each floor and knocking on doors," she said. "The basement was packed." 


LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend 1-'orecast Ac-cu\Veathrr''· fon..'.c1s1 ror daytime l-ondilions and lngh 1empern111res  
.~,··' H L Thursday (f 53 31 Friday; ~ 57 37 Saturday c:::::1 59 43 Sunday ~ 66 49 '" ...... ) Monday ~ 66 45 ,, .,'  

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Thursday, March 30. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
60s -Os 
80s"\)......-_ 
40s 105~ · .', ,.;i 
,·· .• lO•.. · . ~70s
)"i:5;'.r! u'I\) 
2~ 4~~ sos~ 90s 
FRONTS: 
T"'Y" ........ ~ 
© 2000 AccuWeamer, Inc. COLD WARM SrATIONARY 
Pr,uu,-: ----, 
® © DCJCJJEZJEJmJ (;Jf~iifli', 
Hlqh Low Show.ens Rain T•'Slorms Flurrie~ Snow lee Sunny PL Cloudy Cloudy 
Atlanta 74 50 Las Vegas 49 32 Portland 61 42 Baltimore 58 37 Memphis 66 46 Sacramento 77 50 Boston 50 39 Milwaukee 51 36 St. Louis 61 40

Q,Q,~9-Q.Q (f ~u 
Chicago 55 35 New York 55 40 Tampa 81 68

Sllowers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow le• Sunn' Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 81 65 Philadelphia 59 38 Wash DC 61 51

Via As:soc1a.led Pu;s:i Graphu;;sNet 
Thursday, March 30, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Actor Burke doesn't let disability hamper dreams 
By KIFLJN TURNER 
News Writer 
Chris Burke. lwst known for his portrayal of "Corky" on the tdt>vision show "Life Goes On," knows a!Jout dmllc>ng<'S. 
"I was challcngccl !'rom lhe day I was born," said Burke in a loc­turP W<'dn!'sday night about his (•x1wrinnn:s with Down syn­drom,•. Manv membPrs of the audif'l1cD Wf!r<' so toucll('d bv his wort.ls that audiblP m<Hu;s uf' sympathy ('ould be !ward thrnug'IHiul llw Jpcturn hall. 
"\\lw11 l can't do something, I try hardPr -this sums up my philosophy of'lifi•," Burk\· said. 
II<' n·1·oi:(n i:11·d his parPnts and his family nwmb<•rs as tlw keys to his surcess. 
"\ly pari>nts and my siblings always did tlw very bnst for me -•,1;p all worked togetlrnr," BurkP said. "At Pach stPp in my lift~. I had somPone tlwre to l'IH'OU rag!' n11'. 
BurkP idPnLilfod thP impor­tann• of' Pducation l'or Lhosr• ,vho huvP Down svndronw. 
"\\'hc•n it ;'.allll' to my educa­tion. mv morn and dad made sun• I h;1d llw twst." said Burkn. !le addPd that (hosp with disabil­itiPs should not bP tlw. only ones guaranteed an education. but sorictv as a whole needs to bn ,veil r.quippPcl to accept and include those with disabiliti'1s as ,wll. 
lfomemlwring his childhood 

days, Burke pointed out his years growing up in middle and high school us being the most int1uen­tial in tnrms of incrnased aware­ness and education of disabili­tins. 
· "It was b1\coming a time when college students were becoming more aware of difforenl disabili­ties." said Burke. ' 
,\s a young adult. Burke.said ho wil.nessocl the progression ol' socinty's ac-coptanco of disabili­tins. Burke recaUc<l visits from tlw Villanova college bask,i1ball team to his lorn! high school, Not only wnro the playm-s making an p(fort to bri•ak down Uw invisible discriminatorv barriPrs bntwcon those who had disabilities and those who did not, but BurkP said "more importantly, they gaw usu fncling of importance." 
"I learned a lot in thosn ynars and know that wlwn I grew up I could pursue ·my drnams." hr. said. recalling that his only tvvo goals wen) tu succmid as an actor and to hr,lp others who faced the same dil1kulties as lw did during childhood. 
"I ncvnr gave up on my dream and llollvwoou." Burke saiu in regards t;, his lirst goal. 
As for reaching his second goal. Burke has become a spokesperson and advocate for people with the disability through his involvement with the National Down's Society as edi­tor-in-chief of "News and Views," the group's news magazine. 
"It made me happy to give 
them my time and love. 1 learneu how to give br,cause l was given so much," said Burke. 
Inclusion. or the formal process of integrating those with disabilities into classrooms with those who do not havA disabili­ties. is a program that Burke supports. 
"lnrlusion in evr,ryduy life is our ultimate goal. We must work hard to achieve accep.tanc!1," Rurke said. Equally important, Burke said that family, friends and society should accP-pt and inclmlo those who have disabili­ties into all social, political and economic circles. 
Burke spoke fondly of his expe­riences with his first job teaching youth with disabilities. 
"Tlw best part was that my fol­low nmployecs included me and invitod me to all social aetivitirs. [t was great to feel like I was a part ol' a team." he said. "We're entitled to good jobs with good pay." 
Burke has spoken before com­mitlees of the Senate and Congress in hopes of receiving equal treatment as functional and active dtizons. 
"We would ralhPr be taxpayers than tax-dependents," said Burke. 
Many college students are able to look beyond disabilities, according to Burke. 
"It's amazing to me. when I go to colleges -I am really amazed at the teenagers and college stu­denl'i that do not look at the dis-

abilities, but the abilities," he said. 
At the same time, Burke recog­nized the important role of the students attending colleges like Notre Dame and urged those present at the lecture tu take a more active role in acceptance. 
"All of you are role models. and I ask you to teach [those with disabilities]. accept them and give them a chance to go to school to learn as you are. They need you and you need them, that is what is most important," Burke said. 
Burke marched in Clinton's inaugural parade, and in 1994 created a musical trio which has completed three albums. Burke was also nominated for a Golden Globe in 1990, and in 1991 was named as one winner of the "Ten Outstanding Young Americans Award." 
"Remember, we can do it. Believe in us as we believe in ourselves, never give up on us and help us do the best we can do," he said. 


No Summer Plans ?? Here is a service-learning o ortunit for credit: 
• Service-Learning opport"unity 
• $1,700 Scholarship/3 credits (additional $1181.00 from Americorps available) • 8 Weeks volunteer work with 
a disadvantaged population 
• room and board provided 
Sponsored by UND Alumni Clubs 
(ND students only 

Applications: Center for Social Concerns 
Projects available: 

Boca Raton the Haven, home for abused neglected kids Blue Ridge YWCA programs Calgary Street Teams, working with teen prostitutes Cincinnati Boys and Girls club (local student) Detroit Mercy Hospital, Infant Mortality Program Dubuque Camp for children with physical disabilities Ft. Wayne Matthew 25-low/no income clinic (car) Indianapolis Children's summer programs, family shelter Jackson, MI Home for pregnant teens Kalamazoo migrant worker ministry -(Spanish needed) Marion, IN Abuse programs Michigan City,IN camp for developmentally disabled adults Goshen, IN Boys & Girls Club Rockford, IL medical, (car going to be Jr of Sr., female) Worcester, MA Dismas House 
and more till
CCMfl!R fQl 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS
Sue Cunningham 1-7867 or Tracy 1-9402 
Saint Mary's College presents Tennesee Williams' play 

Thursday-Saturday, April 13-15, 2000 at 8 p,m, 
S•fol M•ry's Coll•r•
0
. MOREAU 
Sunday, April 16 at 2:30 p.m. ~ENTER., 
, FOR THE ARTS
Little Theatre NorRE oAME, 1N For ticket information contact 284 4626 
the Saint Mary's College Box Office at • 

~AflJR 

,lJIT@ 
Awareness, Friendship. Change. 
Naturally 
include a person with a disability into your life. 
Stop by the Center for Social Concerns 
Thursday, March 30th 
between 4-6p.m. 
Natural Ties is a national organization encouraging friendships between college students and people with disabilities. Welcome people with disabilities into activities in which you are already a 
part. 

www.NaturalTies.org ~ 
289-4831 LOGAN 
/)/acov,rlltt lvkol/1/ 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 30, 2000 



Marrow 
continued from page I 
llt\Cf'ssary papPrwork was complete. Somr studPnts chatted, some attPmpted to study, .and a l'Pw just waited patient­Iv. Then Ues askcrt everyone pray for \lurphy. Tlw bustle was replace.cl with silence wl!ilP everyone joined hands and listPnPd to Lies' simple. sincere prayer. 
"I think it's going. to be one of thosP things I look back on after my four ynars at Notni Danrn and rememb!'r as (JIH' of tlrn great nxamples or one or lhP Notre Dume community supporting one of' thnir own." said l\1urphy's roommate, Stt-ve Napluton. 
Donations rontinued past 3 p.m., thn sclH'rlult·d Pml o!' Urn drive. Even so, many pownliul donors were turned away bPrause oflack of time. 
"I( it had bef'n physkally possible WP could havl' probably processed 1,000 pnople.·· said Lies. 
The crowd included Murphy's closest l'riPnds, casual acquaintances and peo­ple who had rwver met him. 
"I figured lhal if I needed tlw I.Jon<' marro\\' transplant I'd want everyorw to donal1'. for me," said sophomore Adam Kronk, who has never met Murphy. "It was the kast I could do." 
The phenomenal success uf the drive has crf'ated a new challenge. 1':.1ch donation rosts $96 to process. Zahm Hall and various campus organizations including Campus Ministry, Student ActivHies, the London program, and Hall Presidents· Council have already raisnl thousands of dollars. 
But with three to four times the antic­ipated turnout, significant additional funds arc needed. Lies estimated that and additional $25,000 is needed to cover expenses. 
"We'll have to continue to raislJ money to support this drive," said Lies. "Any help from the University commu­nity to further support Conor in this way will be greatly appreciated." 
Although there are no plans for another drive on campus, the Junior Lcagu(' of South Bend is sponsoring a bon(' marrow registration drivf' today from noon to 7 p.m. at the Memorial Leighton Healthplex. located at the cor­ner of Michigan and Jefforson in dovm­town South BP11d. 


Students anxious to join the National Marrow Donor Program registry crowd into LaForlune Ballroom Wednesday (above). Many of the 610 donors waited more than two hours for a nurse to take the necessary blood sample (left). 
Keynote Lectures 

Friday March 31, 7:30 p.m., McKenna Hall Auditorium: 
Robin Chapman Stacey, University of Washington, Seattle 
"Dark was their Speech": the Performance ofLaw in Early Ireland 
Saturday April 1, 7:30 p.m., McKenna Hall Auditorium: 
~ 

Donnchadh O Corrain, University College, Cork 
Clerics ofMany Talents: Property, Church, and Scholarship 
Seminar Presentations 
Lisa Bite!, University ofKansas Joseph Falaky Nagy, UCLA Thomas Charles-Edwards, Oxford Daibhf 6 Cr6infn, NU/, Galway David Dumville, University ofCambridge Padraig 6 Neill, UNC, Chapel Hill Michael Gorman, Milan, Italy 
For further information, please contact Dr. Aideen M. O'Leary: tel. (219) 631-3046; Email aolearv@nd.edu 






orld 



Thursday. March 30, 2000 COMPILED fROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Reform rabbis approve gay commitment ceremonies 
GllEENSBOHO. N.C:. 

Hdorm Jpv1,ish leaders overwhnlmingly approvnd a n'solution giving rabbis the option ol' pn·siding a1 gay cmnmitnwnt ('Prcmonics. With th<' vol P. th t> Ci>n traI Con l'e renc11 of' .\nwrkan Habbis lwcanw the most int1uentinl lJ.S. r<'ligiDus group to sanction samr\-snx unions. Ttw rPsolution applies lo lhe 1.800 rn<'mlwrs of tl1P CPntral Conf'crPnc<' of' .\nwrinrn Habbis. who s1'rv1• al lPa,st l .;i mil­lion H1•1'orm .l!~ws. Hnl'orm Judaism is tlw laq{1•sl and most lilwral of' Judaism's three major branrlins in f\orlh Anwrica. Babbi C:harlc•s Krolol'f. CCAB's prPsidPnt. said the res­olution shows Llw rnnkrencc·s belief' that "gay and h,sbian J1,ws. and the conunittml relation­ships tlwy t'orrn with thPir partners, dnservP tlw ri·rngnition and rcsp(ict due Lo people crc­atPd in tlw imagp or (;od." 
Kosovo official denies anti-Serb stance 
PARIS 

Tlw Unitnd Nations' Lop n•pr('snnLative in Kosuv11 on v\'1\dtwsclay cilniied harboring anti­SPrb Sl'11ti11wnls and insist11d lw gPts along \\' ,, 11 with FrP n r h pI' a e I' kc Pp<' rs in the provilH'P. 13<-rnard Koucl11wr's rPmarks to two \nlional /\ss!•mblv commiltnes were in ;.Pspons!' to allq{atitllls of' l'avorilism toward l'lhnir ,\lbanians llrnt WPrn containPd in clas­sil'iPd don,nwnts and lPakPd to IIH• Frenrh prt'SS. '"\\'lw11 tlwy say till' French army is full of' !'XaspPration ovPr nw, not only do I rel'uLn this but I find it sranda!ous." Kouchner said, 'Tm ,wither pro-Albanian nor pro-Serb ... I'm 11bsolutP!y not anti-Snd)." 
Police arrest one of Mexico's most notorious kidnappers 
i\:!EXICO CITY 

h)d<'ral policP haVP capturPd onn of the coun­try's most-wanted kidnappPrs: a man known as the Colonel whoso trad<•mark was cutting off his victims· pinkiP l'ingPrs. Marcos Tinoco was arn•st()d l\londay in Mexico City, police said in a news rnloasP, ,\t tlw timn of' his capture. he was carrying a ')mm llcm•tla pistol. a diamond­cmcrustPd gold Hokx watch. morn than $8,000 in cash and a fak(• driVl'r·s license. Later. during an insprn·tion of' his hotPI room on a highway between [\foxico City and Toluca, tho capital of l\'!Pxirn stale. police round a rillo, stun gun. fake mustaches, handcuffs and false stationery from tlw Mexican attorney general's of1ice and the interior ministrv. Tinoco. 41. headed more than live separate kidnapping cells and was responsi­blP for at lrast 11 abductions. the last of which Louk place last wr(ik. authorities said. allegedly c·ut tlH• last finger ol' LhP right hand off some of his victims, 
liiiiiitilitlttliMit-JI
Dow  AMEx:  
1000.90  
JONES  .1s.61  
+84.16  Nasdaq: 46-14.67  
-IWJ.'.!1  
~  'l'\'SE:  
l_J  6-t9.63 • .1.90 s~~P 500:  
11020.27  1508.52  

--.79 

VOLUME LEADERS 

CONPU'Y  TICf;SA  '\ CllANGI!!  ! C>W<OB P'RICS  
C'lSCO SYST·frnS AT HOME CORP  csco .A'l"HEH  -?.B ... , . 84  -1.8150 . 3.Ji75  76 .06 :n.69  
N tC:RO.SOFT CORP 01:LL ~'JMPlM'EF!  K.Sl"T 01:l,L  ... .,: , 7i _.,. ,o  +i.8775 -4.06~0  107 .19 53 .Bl  
MCI WORLDCON  '"  \>ICON  -l. 713  ~. 750,0  41.50  
lLffEL CORP p,-snAo 100 SHJ\R  INTC 000  -l..al -4 .14  -3.8075 _,_ 751'0  131. 68 110.00  
ORA.Ct.B CORe  OR.CL  --t .6~  .,.ans  82.SO  
QUALCOMM IWC  QCOM  +-l..14  •2.6875  l51 ~ 50  
IMS  HEAL'r'H  me  RX  +22. s,  -,.eno  16 .75  


Composite Volume: 1.046,973,.376 
CUBA 



Elian's dad wants to travel to U.S. 
. Castro says dad is 'ready immediately' 
Associated Press 
llAVANA 
The father of Elian Gonzalez is willing to Lrnvel to tlw United States to claim his son and stay with him, while their Miami relatives conlinuo a loga! battle to keep him, President Firlel Castro said Wednesday night . 
Juan Migucl Co11zal!iz "is r0ady imm!Jdialely" to go r:Jorida to take custody of Uw 6-vPar-old bov, Castro said during the ~urprisc announcement made dur­ing a livP television broad­cast. He said the trip was conditional on guarantees that the US government would turn Elian over to his father nr at least make a maximum effort to do so. 
"The passports are readv," Castro said. "And of couisr. the airplanr, is ready." 
lie said that Gonzalez's American attorney Gregory Craig was seeking U.S. visas for the f'ather and a large entourage, as well as the guarantees the f'ather had sought. 
Castro said that-all that Gonzalez was waiting for was final word from his atlorncy that the guaran­tees had been delivered. He did not olfor any specifics to what city the plane would fly to initially, but said that Gonzalez would wait out the court process with his son in Washington. 
The turnabout came at a crucial time -on the eve of the U.S. Justice Department's deadline for Elian's Miami relatives to sign an agreement promis­ing to give up the boy ii' they lose their legal appeal. 
Lazaro Gonzalez. the Miami great-uncle Elian has been staying with, has 


said he would be \\illing to release the bov to Gonzalez, if the fath~r per­sonally came from Cuba to pick him up. 
Apparently calling the great-uncle's bluff, Castro said not only would the father go. but he would stay for the entire court process. 
Gonzalez in the past has said that hc would be will­ing to travel to the United Stales to claim his boy if he could just pick him up and come back to Cuba. 
This is the first time that anyone has said that family would stay at the home of the chief' of the Cuban Interests Section in Washington, Castro said. 
He said having Elian's teacher and classmates along would allow Elian to reinsert himself into his family and school environ­ment "without losing a moment of the child's readaption." 
Since the international dispute over Elian erupted af'ter the boy was rescued at sea more than four months ago, Gonzalez has been reluctant to travel to the United States. 

Gonzalez was willing to stay in the United States during the legal process. It is also the first time that it has been said that Gonzalez is ready to travel immediately. 
Gonzalez would go with a large group of people, including his wife, and their 6-month-old son, who is Elian's half-brother. Also in the entourage would be Elian's first grade teacher, a dozen of his classmates and a host of Cuban psy­chologists and psychia­trists. 
Other members of the 
Ruling hurts nude dancing industry 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The Supreme Court made it !:)asier for local governmflnts to ban nurle dancing in about 3,000 adult clubs nationwide, ruling Wednesday that a 
strippnr's frC'edom of oxpn'ssion Celli h1' rnstrietecl bv forcing her to wen~· pasti.(is and a G­string. 
Nude dancing can be banned in an elfort to combat 


crime and other O'Connor harms that adult enltlrtainment clubs often attract, the juslicrs said in a splintf:'rPd cfccision reinstating a public-nudity ordina,nce in Erie, l'a. 
Such dancing is '"expressive con­duct" but iL falls "only wilhin the outer amhit" nf tlrn Constitution's First Amendment free-speech protection, Justice Sandra Day O'Connor wrote in the court's main opinion. 
The ban promotf)S Erie's "interest in r,om bating the ncgalive seronda ry e\Tects associated with adult onterLain­ment establishmenlc:;,··· such as crime, and was not aimed at a dancer's erot­ic nwssage, O'Connor said. 
Although the court's rationale was divided, the decision is sure to have broad impm:t. Nude entertainment is featured in about 3,000 adult clubs nationwide, the justices were told when the case was argUt~cl in November. 
"We're delighted," said Valerie Sprenkle, Erie's assistant city solicitor. "We didn't ban any expression .... What's being regulated is the means of expression." 
Sprenkle said dancers at a nude dancing club in the city "will be required to cover up to the extent required by the ordinance." 
John Weston. attornev f'or tlw for­mer Eric nude-dancing club owner who challenged the ordinanrP, snid the ruling may !Pad to a flurry of attempts to bun nude danring. but that "sexually orientPcl businesses will always thrive." 
Weston said the ruling appeared to leave room for dub owners to force governments to "defend their assump­tions" that such establishments lead to crime. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 30, 2000 
wt~ foe! outraged -it's part or Prejoan of lrnr involvement "I Those who participate in hor social and political change moral sensitivity to feel out­got involved by getting involved sido of' the issue refor to the rngarding the death penalty. She
Prejean 
raged," she said. "But on the with poor people." death penalty as torture, which believes prison reform is essen­
continued from page 1 
Penn came on board to play the death row inmate, I thought all the llollywood studios would go for it," PrPjean said. A.fter facing many rejections, the story was picked up by Polygram Films lnternalional. 
Prejean's support for the pro­ject was bolstered by her trust in Sarandon and Hobbins and her hope that the film would bring lhe issue to the American con­sciousness. 
"What the film Dead Man Walking did was lo reach out to the American people and give them a way to begin reflecting uu the death penalty," she said. This achievemtrnt has also brought Preje,m's work into the public eye, giving her the oppor­tunity to travol internationally to speak on the subject. Her ulti­mate goal is to turn the tables politically, she said. and abolish the death penalty. 
"On the one hand we hear about innoc;cnt people being killed in wanton evil acts where their liwis are just eut short, and olher hand, we .have the polls that show that public support for the death penalty is plummet­ing." 
Prn_jean pointed to the unrelia­bility of the system that hands down the death penalty. stating that currently 87 innocfmt peo­ple have come off of dealh row since its reinstatement in 1976. 
Following the removal of Anthony Porter rrom death row in Illinois, Gov. George Hyan. who supports the death penalty, imposed a moratorium while the system that has sentenced numerous innocent people to die is invcstigattid. 
While 5 states havP followed suit and formed initiatives to call for moratoriums, there arfl othf'r states in which the death penalty is deeply ingrairrnd in the cul­turn. 
"We have legitimized vengeance as a part of our cul­tun\" she said. "I didn't know I was going to get involved with the death penalty, or walking with people to tho oloctric chair, or with the victims' families, or with the guards who am part or the execution squads," said 



C.J. 'sPub 
_':::\f!%!f!f:t:'/'f_-~/~Jtit' -, 
THE GLOBE 

Ultimntcly, her introduction to tlrn death penalty was incidental; she was approached by a mem­ber of the Prison Coalition to bcr.ome a pen pal with a death row inmate. Through this project she camn to know inmate Patrick Sonnier, whom she even­tually went Lo visit. 
"Prisons are suc;h placns of abandon­Amnesty International has dclined as "an extreme m()ntal or physical assault on someone rendered helpless." Prejean does not say that all victims' families support thti death penalty. 
"There can be people in this white-hot fire ofloss who choose forgiveness," she said. 
The father of 
one of 
ment," she said. ")11,,e have legitimized Sonnicr's vic­Sonnicr's mother tims spoko to 
vengeance as a part
visited oncll but was Prejean about 
unable to return because ol' the trau­ma it caused. 
"Ile was alo1rn and sentencPd lo die," said Prejean. "I couldn't believe how human his face was." 
Prejean continued to visit and became Sonnicr's spiritual arlvi­sor. and would accompany him litorallv to his death. 
J\l'ter accompanying 5 people tu their executions, uncl carrying with lwr their faces and the facns of victims' fam i!iPs, Prn_jmm became doeply involvnd in work­ing to 1·eform the system Lhat imposes such a punishment. 
ofour culture. " his decision to forgive as one inspired by the
Sister Helen Prejean 
healing power
author 

of God. lie used 
Scripture to 
realize that 
Sonnicr's crimes did not make him less huma11. 
".Jesus was noL just about b<iing kind to people," said PrPjcan. "Jesus inaugura.tnd a nnw kind of community -look at who he hanged out with; all the people that society rnjnctnd, today's HIV positivo, eonvirtNI criminals, gay and IRsbian." 
This forgivmicss is somnthing that PrcjNLll points as crucial to tial as well. 
"Over 10 years. state lc~gisla­
tures have been tightening up 
sentencing for people who are 
r,harged with first-degree 
murder, which is the -only 
crime punishable by death," 
she said. Prnjean said that this 
is a step toward eliminating 
superfluous use of the death 
penalty. Its ineffoctiveness is 
evidenced by tlrn fact that only 
five percent of those eligible 
l'or the death penalty receive it 
as a sentnnce, and that of 
those, a large number end up 
being released. 

In a dialogue with Pope John 
Paul, Prejean was able to clar­
ify the Church's official stance 
on the issue, which has 
recently changnd from support 
of the death penalty to strictly 
pro-lifo. · 

"Modflrn societies have a 
way to incapacitate people 
without imitating their vio­
lem;e," she said. 

Prejean was invited to speak 
hy Call to /\ction Michiana, 
and was sponsored by many 
local groups i.ncluding 
Am ncsty Intcrnational. 

-------------------, 

TASTY BACON 
.F'Pi<lay Night Lenten Dinne:r s~4tls.. 
.F:r.lcta,y Night Lenten DJnne:r 8.Pe().ia;ls .• 
.F':ri<lay Night Lenten. X.!inne:r.SP¢r.li&Jsc· 

. . CHEDDAR WHOPPER:

THE WHOPPER' WITH A NEW TWIST FOR A LIMITED TIME. 
If you're already a fan of "America's Favorite Burger."• why not try ii a whole new way? With crispy bacon and melted cheddar cheese. it's sure to put a smile on your face. So head to a BURGER KING'' restaurant soon and make sure to bring your appetite. 
The Huddle • Lafortune Student Center 



Thursday. March 30, 2000 ]he Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Hellrung reflects on homosexuality at 'a place like this' 
JOB TURNEFilThe Observer Senior Alyssa Hellrung discusses her experiences as a lesbian in Notre Dame's conservative environment Wednesday. 
By BRIAN HOBBINS 
News Writer 

Brrcn-Phillips srnior Alyssa 111:dlrung began lwr lncture cntitlrd "What it Takrs to be lloncst in a Plan' Like This" with a powerful image. 
"Imagine if you woke up orrn morning and you realized that all th0 timr you thought your cy«'s wnre dark brown they wnro rnally blun," Ilcllrung saidt:. dcsrribing hN s·cxual awakening. 
Tilt! lecture examined homo­scxuality and activism for gay and lesbian rights al Notre Dame in her lecture WPdnrsday night in lrnr dorm. 
"I wanl to talk about what happened before I started quostioning my soxuality," Jlellrung said. She discussed her adolescencfl, which included a normal upbringing, conr.erns with popularity and a pursuit of tho opposite sox. 
"I was having feelings for women as well. and I didn't know what it meant at that time," lfollrung said. 
Sho dismissed those fC'elings as a part of her lifelong desire 
RETIREMENT INSURANCE MUTUAL FUN05 TRUST SERVICES TUITION FINANCING 
Why is TIAA-CREF the #1 choice nationwider 
The TIAA-CREF 




Advantage. 
Year in and year out, employees at education and research institutions have turned to TIAA-CREF. And for good reasons: 
• 
Easy diversification among a range of expertly managed funds 

Solid performance and exceptional personal service Strong commitment to low expenses 


• 
Plus, a full range of flexible retirement income options 


With an excellent record of accomplishment for more than 80 years, TIAA-CREF has helped professors and staff at over 9,000 campuses across the country invest for­and enjoy-successful retirements. 
Choosing your retirement plan provider is simple. Go with the !eader:TIAA-CREF. 
iii 
Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it."' 

THE TIAA..[BEFADVANTAGE  
Proven Performance  
Low Expenses  
Highly Rated  
Quality Service  
Trusted Name  

1 800 842-2776 
www.tiaa-cref.org 
,. According to O.A.L8AR, lnc..a finaocial services r~arch firm. In rt:s most rec@otstudy, ,991 Defined Contribution ExceffenceRarings, TIAA-CREF w~ voted number on@in partid~ pam satisfaction.TIAA-CREF lndi,idual and lnstiMional 5..vices, Inc. di<tributcs CRH cenificates and interests in the TIM Real Estate Account.Teachers Personal Investors Se-Ni~,lnc.distributes the vanabie cornponem at the personal annuities. mlltlJat funds and tuition samgs agreements.TIA.A andTIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co.issue insurance and amuities. TIAA-CREF Trost Company, FSS pro\'1d~ trust servicM. Investment products ara not FDiC in5Untd, may lose Y41t1• and a~ not bank guara.nteed. F=or more complete lnfonnatiori on our securities prodt,!CTS, induding ch.arges ~nd ex~ru.e5, can 1 BOO 342-2776,ext. 55()9, for the prospeauses.Read them carefully before you invest 0< send money. ,o 1000 11M-CREF 1100. 
for aII older sister. 
"I went through high school and had a lot of' boyf'rim1rls, but for whatrver reason I'd always break up with them," llcllrung said. 
She also examined the phys­ical side of her heterosexual refutionships, remembf\ring shuddering after kissing her boyfriend. 
"It was a shudcler of repul­sion -no offense to you guys," she said. Latnr in high school, Ilollru'ng examinoq her relationship with a female friend in a dif'ferent light. questioning if she had a crush on her. 
"It made me qurstion a lot of my relationships and what was behind them," said Ifellrung, adding that such questioning led to somr, self doubt. "I didn't want to go there, to think that I might be all the way gay." 
Hellrung found it hard to talk with her parents about Urn issue as well. 
''She Lmy mom] would say something that would hurt me, like this is just a phase," she said. 
llnllrung realized that her only way to make an informed decision would be to act on her impulses. She described 
an  encounter with  a  friend,  
Angie.  
"She just  knew  she  was  
gay," said Hellrung.  

The friendship led to physi­cal contact and an awakening for Hellrung. 
"Over the summer before I came here, I realized that I was a lesbian," she said. "Then I came to Notre Dame and that is where things got funny." 
llellrung described Notre Dame as being more conserva­tive then she had expected. 
"I was going to wait a couple months and get used to life here and then I'd start by coming out to my roommates and then my section mates and that did not work," she said. "It took me about an hour to realize that that wasn't going to work. I had to be honest." 
Honestv has been at the core of Ilellr~ng's activism since then. The spring of lfellrung's freshman year saw an erup­tion of activism in response to controversy about the Spirit of Inclusion. A parade and protfist for awarenoss was staged on the steps of the Main Building, whern Hellrung's honesty activism made hm the m<1st recognized homosexual on campus. 
"I am a lesbian at Notre Dame," Hellrung said in front ol' a crowd of' 400. 
"People were like -you're so brave to be doing this," Hcllrung said before dismiss­ing her stand on the steps as mere honesty. "There is a lot of activism that can be done that way, just by living your lift> honestly. Evrryone can br activists through honesty." 
llellrung also addressed myths about homosexuality and lesbianism at Notre Dame and worldwidr. 
"First myth: Lesbians hate men," Ilellrung said. 
Other myths focused on the belief' that gay people can't be Catholic, that homosexuals try to rncruit straight p<rnple to "the other side of the fence" or that lesbians want to he men. 
"Most of the leshians I know love being women and love women," Hellrung said. 
Ilcllrung also examined belief's that coming out to a friend indicates desire and examined studies that claim gay people are miserable. 
Jlellrung's activism has helped quell the sense of taboo about the issue. 
"I've seen things change here in the four years I've been here," she said, citing the emergence of support groups and information as well as education for resident assistants. 
She has even seen a turn­around in her parents. 
"The mind is like a para­chute, it doesn't work unless it's open," Jlellrung's mother said in support after her daughter's freshman year coming out. 
llellrung argued that change needs to continue. 
"There are people on this r.ampus who do not want me hrre, or do not want my gay friends here," she said. adding that she hoped her speech and activism would help pass the torch for change after her graduation. 
''I'm all about making life more comfortable for me, my gay frifmds and the gay people coming after me," she said. 


NEED AJOB FOR NEXT YEAR? 
Student Activities is now hiring for the 2000-2001 academic year. 
P-GSition.s available: 
Ballroom Monitors Building Set Up Crew DeBartolo Event Manager Information Desk Lafortune Building Managers Office Assistants ND Cake Service ND Express Sound Technicians Stepan Center Managers 24 Hour Lounge Monitors 
Applications available at 315 laFortune or on-line at ,Ann,,A•.nd.edu/ ~sao/forms. 
Deadline· extended to April 7. 
page 8 The Objerver . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, March 30, 2000 

CREDIT 
FIRST 


SUISSE 

BOSTON www.csfb.com 
Thursday, March JO, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page9 
STUDENT SENATE 

Group debates Denny's incident, student center survey 
By LAURA ROMPF 
A<si<t,mt Nt'ws Editor 
Two stud1ints involv0d in the Hoscland Dnnny's incident addressrd th<' Student S<mato WPdnrsday night with con­cprns about llw Idler wriUP.n bv tlw senators supporting the studnnts. 
SPllior .Josoph .loy and junior PaliPIH'.I' f\frl!Pnry qtwstiorwd why the stud!'nts involved in 11w· incidrnl Wt'rP not consult­t'fl tH'l'orP writing llw IPtter. 
"First or all. let il be known that I was not one of llrn stu­dr,nts arrestPd on Pl'bruary Ui," senior Jos1\ph .Joy said. "I was a m~mlrnr or thH group that was PxprllNI from the rt•staura11t and I did nxpnri­Pnl'l' many of tlw injustices of that night. 
":\lso know that this statc\­nwnt is in mv lwhalf'. and not on lwlialf of' 0lllf' 1:11tin· group. although I do lwliPVP many of tlw otlwr studPnts will hav<' similar opinions of' th-1• StudP11t S(-•nnt,•s ldtPr concPrning the incid,,nl." .Joy said, who con­tintwd by saying that although tlw Se11atn's int(mtions wern positivP, by not interviewing tlw in v o Iv(\ cl stud I' nts tlw i r fads and furtlwr aetions could b(' rwgativP. 
"It is my opinion thaL. in ord('r for tlw sPnatP to support tlw stucl('11ts involvPd in th<• incident. thev must first listnn to ,vhat WP havP to sav." Jov said. "l !'('Pl that th<• l<'ll(H' was not v,•rv wPII inf'ormPd. ln ordPr fm: tlw sPnatP to honl'st­lv sav that it 'stands with tlw itud,;llls. · it must first rnnsult tlw sludPnts and undPrstand in what capacitiPs it ran sup-port them." 

Some senators felt that since last wi;ek the letter was just passed "in spirit" and was open to further review, there was no need to rescind the let­ter. 
"We alrnacly passed the let­ter in spirit and if we make a motion to rescind it weakens the letter," said Brnndan Dowdall. Dillon Hall senator. "We know what we did and we know how we stand. We did this to support the students. However I [eel we should lis­ten to what the involved stu­dents have to say." 

Knott Hall senator Ed Foy agreed. 
"Recalling or rescinding the fetter makes it 1tppear like we're not supporting the stu­dents," Foy said. 
However, other senators dis­agreed. 
"We should recall the letter and get a clear understanding of what happened so that the actions we take will be in lino with the students," said Zahm Hall senator Hyan Berker. "We messed up last week and instead of trying to save face hPre so we don't look had, we should just fix the situation." 
"I feel we should recall the letter and get the facts straight. We should go out there with these students and get the facts clear," said Cimarron Gilson. Sorin sena­tor. 
McHenry seconded Joy's feelings that the senate should have consulted the students involved in the incident. 
"We just hav11 three main problems with the letter. First of all. we were unsure what was meant by an open lf'tter," McHenry said. "Does this mean it will simply be kept on file'' Or will it be sent to peo­ple in South Bend'? 
"Second is consultation. No one ever talked to the people directly involved. We are not attacking the spirit of the let­ter," McHenry continued. "We feel the spirit is awesome. We are not saying this was done for selfish reasons. Our prob­lem is it came from a blind source and that you all were not informed. 
"Lastly, there was some wording in the letter that was not conducive to the facts." 
Overall, because the letter had already been sent out to 
Reverend Richard S. Vosko 
/A HOU§!E lFO!R TH!E CHUlRCH: 

STrRUCTURlES FO!R PUSUC WOlRSH~P ~N IA NIEW M~lllENN~UM 
The Second Annual Mark Searle Lecture in Liturgy 
THURSDAY• MARCH 30, 2000 • 8:00 P.M. 
HESBURGH CENTER FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES 
University of Notre Dame 
SPONSORED BY THE NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR PASTORAL LITURGY 
tine!' separate groups, tho senate resolved to form a com­mittee of old senators. new senators and involved students to make revisions to the letter before it would be sent on to further involved parties. .Joy and McHenry agreed to the resolution. 
"Because the letter has alrnady b1rnn sent to the Hoseland Police Department, the St. Joseph's County Police Departm{int and Denny's, I n~alize that recalling the letter is not possible." .Joy said. "But I do ask that the letter not be further distributml until it is revised." 
lie added that he was glad the senate chosr, to support the students involved in the incidcnL 
"I am not angry with the senate for stating its support of the students. I am pleased that it wishes to support us. I am just ·curious as to how the senate plans to do this. I also hope that. in the future, the senate investigates a little fur­ther when acting on behalf of the student's which it repre­sents," .Joy said. 
In other senate news: 
. 
The meeting ended the terms of the 1999-2000 sena­tors as well as student body vice-president Michael Palumbo. 

. 
Christopher Anderson. Keough Hall president, and Luciana Reali, student body secretary, presented the results of the student survey on a new student center. 


"We have been analyzing information over the past months and collecting student opinion on the issues," Reali said. "This is the first time that the students have been consulted regarding a building issue, so we are very excited." 
. Senate unanimously passed three more resolutions, one regarding the use of 11ex points at the Alumni-Senior Club. one regarding the destruction of Stepan Center and a final one regarding the use of Farley Hall as a student entertainment facility. The facility would play 70s music on the first floor. 80s on the second. 90s on the third floor and a mix of Marvin Gaye and Barry White on the fourth floor. 
"I really want to thank you for finally doing something for the students," said Fisher Hall senator, Phil Dittmar. "Student government has really changed me." 

page 10 The Observrr . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, March .10, 2000 







1s11nnua1 
·Notre Dame lip svnc 
, :..... 
April 6th 
6:00 -8:00 pm in the laFortune Ballroom Benefits go to the South Bend Center for the Homeless 
Competition between donns 
\ ); 


For more information and entry call Charles at 256-5027 
Thursday, March 30, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 11 
AVERTING NUCLEAR ANARCHY: 
The Current Crisis in Arms Control 
Friday, March 31 Hesburgh Center tor International Studies 
10:00 Anarchy or Abolition: Overcoming the Crisis in Arms Control 
11 :00 The Ethical Dimensions of the Nuclear Dilemma 
1: 15 Scientific Perspectives on the Crisis in Arms Control 
3: 15 Policy Prospects: The Road Ahead for the United States and the World 
7:00 Keynote Address: Toward a Nuclear Weapons Free World: Our Responsibility to Humanity Jordan Auditorium, College of Business 
Joseph Rotblat, 1995 Nobel Peace Prize winner, who co-founded the Pugwash Conferences on Science and World Affairs after resigning from the Los Alamos Project. 
Sponsored by the Joan 8. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, Fourth Freedom Forum, the 
Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, Lawyers Alliance for World Security, and the Union of Concerned 
Scientists. 

!•I.I 
:I:American lung Association -, tung Centerm 
Presents .•. An Eventto Kickoff the Initiative for ASTHMA AWARENESS 
Kelg, Lloyd, Miss Indiana 
Event promotes good health for students 
the fair will have a section of a
By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
table in LeMans Lobby. 
News Wri1er 
"Students will learn how to improve their health, learnAs part of Nursing Week at more about their health and
Saint Mary's College, the benefiting from good health,"
Student Academic Council and Mowry said. 
the Student Nurses Association Organizations represfmted at
are sponsoring 11.11 annual . 
the health fair include: Saint
health fair covering diverse 
Mary's
health issues 
Counseling
Loday from 3 
p.m. to 7 p.m. "Students will learn how and Career 
Center,
in Le Mans 
to improve their health, 
Alcoholics
lfoJI. 
learn more about their Anonymous,
"The defini­tion of health health and benefiting Women's Can' 
Center, The
I'm using 
from good health. " 
Mealing Touch 
includes physi­Organization,
cally, emotion­ally and men­Jalie Mowry American 
L u ll g
tally well-bal­health fair organizer 
anced," said .laliP. Mowry, a senior who is the main coordi­nator of the event. 
"Last year's [health fair] was a huge success," said Mowry. 'Tm just hoping that Saint Mary's will show enthusiasm and support for this si.nce we are bringing in organizations from the community." 
Susie Moe, Shana Cagney and the nursing department helped Mowry with the fair. 
'Tm very excited," said Mowry. "It's taken me since the beginning of February to plan this." 
Each organization present at 


Center 
continued from page 1 
same basic layout of the old building and will have a struc­ture similar to the clubhouse. The kitchen has been enlarged and the bathrooms improved from the old building. 
"It'll hopefully become a social hub for the school and a place to find food not found anywhere else," Russell said. 
The finances and final plans for Dalloway's Coffeehouse still need to be confirmed, accord­ing to Keith Dennis, vice presi­dent of finance and administra­tion. James E. Childs and Associates, Inc. have been hired as the architects. Originally, Ziolkowski Construction was hired to handle the construc­tion, but, after the Board of Trustees directed the College to lower the cost of the building, other contractors arP being investigated. 
Association, Breast Cancer and Sex Offense Services. 
There will also be 1nformation on organ donation, a nutrition­ist, a massagf' therapist, a chi­ropractor, an aerobics instruc­t.or doing fat testing, a diabetes educator, a pharmacist and a yoga instructor. 
The Dining Hall will be pro­viding healthy snacks and StudaHagels will be providing bagels. There will also be drawings for gift certificates to restaurants. 
"At least walk by and you can get a free massage," Mowry said. 

Dennis and John Delee, director of buildings and grounds, met with Casteel Construction Corporation to dis­cuss the cost of the coffeehouse. According to Dennis, the Casteel's pricing was very encouraging, and the College has asked them to refine-their bid. A third contractor is being consulted today to ensure that the College gets the best price. After meeting with Casteel, Dennis is confident the project will begin soon. 
"It appears from these num­bers that the project will be able to proceed." he said. 
The College hopes to have both buildings completed by the beginning of fall term along with the renovations in Regina Hall. The ceremony is sched­uled for 1:30 p.m. today and will include a presentation by Eldred, Nancv Midden. former student body president, the Hyans and Bonnie and John Martell, Saint Mary's Parent's Council representatives. 
And Honorary ChairfoT the American tungAssociation 
You are imitedto attend Miss lndiana's inspirational presentation outlining the affi!ds ASTHMA has had on herlife and her dedication to impromtg the lives ofothaASTHMATICS. 
Thursday, March 30, 2000 
12:00 pm -Notre Dame Room, lafo~Student Center 
REfRESHMEN15 SERVED 
4:00 pm -Montgomewy Theatre, Lafortune Student Center 
REFRESHMENTS SERVED 
To register, contactJessfca at6~1.;s2, or e--mail brookshire.4@nd.edu. Sponsored by IIJSHealtla and Rfdports. 
CASTING & ANGLING 
CLINIC Three Sessions 6:00-7: 15 PM Open to ND Students & Employees $8.00 Class Fee 
CLASS DATES Arm14 
APRIL 11 NRIL 18 
Classes Held in the Joyce Center & Campus Lakes Equipment Provided but Bring Own if Possible Register in Advance at RecSports 
page J L The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, March 30, 2000 



Brought to you by 
SIBC 
A great way to beat the crowd and learn more about e-commerce with Randy Mehl from Robert Baird and Jennifer Lew from Arthur Anderson and more! 
This is you~ perfect opportunity to meet NEW PEOPLE, NETWORK, and LEARN more about the ways that e-commerce is affecting you. 
~IkErE??? Jl~E"'JI) lIAbb Auclit~riu:m ~IkEn??? ~afu:rcta.y, A1ri1 1st at 11:m 
Also: Don't forget the Free Gifts that you will receive for attending!!! 
DON'T MISS THIS! 

Thursday, March 30, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 13 
Judge: Clinton guilty of privacy violation 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Resurrecting an impeach­ment controversy, a federal judge ruled Wednesday that President Clinton '"r,ommitted a criminal 
violation of the Privacy Act" by releasing personal letters to undermine the credibil­ity of one of 

h i s Clinton accusers. 
Clinton immediately disputed the decision, saying he reluc­tantly released the letters two years ago because "it was the only way I knew to refute alle­gations" by Kathleen Willey or an unwanted sexual· advance. 
U.S. District Judge Royce Lamberth concluded the presi­dent and three top White House lawyers disregarded an earlier court ruling when they made Willey's letters public in the midst of the Monica Lewinsky scandal in 1998. 
"This court cannot accept or condone this unlawful action," Lamberth wrote in a decision that clears the way for a law­suit filed by the conservative group Judicial Watch to delve further into the issue. 
Initially, Lamberth's ruling simply requires Whitll Houso lawyers to answer questions they earlier rejected about the decision to release the letters. But it could open the door for an eventual lawsuit by Willey. 
And the Justice Department, ,vhich is reviewing the decision, has an open investigation into another impeachment-related release of damaging informa­tion about a critic -the Pentagon's release of data from Linda Tripp's personnel file. 
Independent Counsel Robert Ray, who must decide wh8ther to indict Clinton after he leaves office, cannot prosecute a Privacy Act case because it only is a misdemeanor. 
The White House plans to appeal. Clinton said he never even considered thr Privacy 
Act when he made the decision to release the letters. 
The president said he "decid­ecl to do it reluctantly only because it was the only way I knew to refute allegations that were made against me that were untrue." 
He also took a swipe at Lamberth, noting the Republican appointee "some­how acquired a significant per­centage of the cases involving the White House. That's an interesting story." 
White House Counsel Beth Nolan said Lamberth's opinion is inconsistent with "every Administration" since 1975, "Hepublican and Democratic alike" that the White House is not subject to the Privacy Act. 
The judge, minced no words, writing: "Tht• prnsidcnt com­mitted a criminal violation of the Privacy Act." 

I DO YOU LIKE APPLES??? I 
-CAMPUS VIEW HAS LARGE SPACIOUS ­--ROOMS, IS CLOSE TO CAMPUS, AND -­
t 
COSTS LESS THAN MOST OF THE t_. • COMPETITION. • 
I HOW DO YOU LIKE THEM I 




: APPLES??? 



AN APPOINTMENT TO SEE YOUR NEW HOME : FOR THE FALL. : 



VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
page 14 BSERVER Thursday, March 30, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Norrt l);unc, IN 46'5'i6 02<1 South Dining Hall, Notre 0:11ne, IN 116516 
EDITOR IN CHIEF :-.•like Connolly 
MANAGI:-IG EDITOR nusINESS MANAGER Norem Gillespie Tim Lrnf..' 
AsST. MANAGING EmTOR OP~.RATIONS MANAGER Tim Logan Brian Kessler 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mauingly VIE\X'POINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDnOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Liz Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Pat Peters AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chis Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gonville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Bob \\foods GRAPHIC$ EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL !NfO............631-7471 FAX....................................................63\-6927 ADVERTISING....................................63 1-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF .......................................6.'11-4542 MA."IAGING EDITOR/AsST. ME... .. ..........63 l -4 541 13USI:-!ESS OFF!CE.......................................631-5313 NEWS........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.. ...........................................631-5303 
obscrvcr.vinvpoinr. l@nd.edu  
SPORTS  ........................................ 631-4543  
nbserver.sporcs. l@nd.edu  
SCENE  ........................................6.'11-4540  
observer.scene. l@n<l.edu  

SAINT MARY'S......................................631-4324 
observcumc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.. . ............ 631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http://obse1ver.11dedu for daily updates ofcampus news. spans. features and opinion columns, as well as canoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music tOr
weather for up-ro-the 
minure forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
and races of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
acehives to search for 
about The Observer 
to meer the editor; and 
articles published alter 
statf
August 1999 

POLICIES 
The Ohserver is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srndenrs of rhe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, indttding adverrisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe admmistration ofeither institution. The Observer reseives ,he right to refuse advertisements based on comem. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion oi the majoriry ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commemaries, leners and columns pre,ent the views of the authors and not necessarily chose of The Ohsei-ver. 
Viewpoim space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumiow regarding Observerpoliaes should be direCl­ed to Ediior i11 01iif/1.f;ke Co11110!/y. 

Memory lapses in the White House 
Press accounts in the past rew days have yielded yet another mention about the forgetfulness of the guys at 1600. The latest "oops" concerns Al Gorn's e­mails. Despite having invented tho IntPmet, it somns that Al is a klutz (color me shocked) wlrnn it comes to using e­mail. At least Wt\ am to bnlieve that to explain why Al and .Justice Department Investigators, can't recover six years of' e-mails covering the pPriod when there has been some question about f'und raising impropri­P-ties at thn White Houso. 
Six years -and Richard Nixon got skewered for a l 6 minute lapse on his secretary's transcription tape. I bet old Tricky Dick wished he had done the Gorn manC'uver on those Whitr. House tapes. 
Gore is thn same guy who gavf! an impassioned speech (his lip doesn't quiver quite as well as Bill's, when he's sharing your pain. but he's working on it) about how his sistnr died or lung cancnr, because ol' cigarettes. This was a power­ful persona] message, which attractnd a lot of media coverage -and public sym­pathy. 
Unfortunately for Al, it attracted so much cuveragn, that someone was able to drndgo up a televised and equally impassioned, spenl'h Al had clfllivnrecl, shortly after the death of his sistnr, telling voters in Tonnessee "I have always been, and will always be, a tobac­co !'armor." When this discrepancy was pointnd out, Al claimed that he had tmn­porary amnesia bncausn of his sistpr's death (I'm not making this us). Gore also forgot to remmnber ihnt his visit lo a Buddhist Temple was a fund-raiser, even though he came away with buckets of cash. Ile pointed out that there was no controlling legal authority in the Clinton i\dministration. Maybe I'm misquoting him a bit, but the idea is the same. 

In Monday's papers (J'm not making this us), Gorn said he did not remmnber his staff people talking about fund raising at the tflmpln. !le claimed that he was drinking a lot o(' iced tea that day. and lrn may have been in the bathroom at tho time of the discussions about fund raising (Lipton won't want to put that in their commnrcials!). 
During the recent primaries, Bill Bradley's folks unearthed some letters to constituents and Congressional votes showing that Al had once been a "believ­er" in the "right to life" position. Bradley pointed this out in an attempt t.o weaken Gore's popularity with the abor­tion crowd. Didn't work. Al can'.t rmrnim­bcr. 
lfGeorgr, W. can quit tripping over his feet in timn to defeat Gore, I recnmmond Al consider a career in car salns, as Joc Isuzu, Jr. 
Now where could Al have picked up this memory loss problem? How about from Bill and Hill'! 
I was thinking about the contrast between the President during my youth, Dwight Eisenhower, and the current occupant of the White Ilousn. Ike play<'d l'ootball and boxed, at West Point; Clinton played footsie in his boxers in the West Wing. Eisenhower went to England to invade Europe to serve his country; Bill wPnt. to England to evadn serving his country. Advantage: Ike. 
ff wr, had to depend on Bill to do some of' thn things Ike did, this essay would be filled with umlauts. 
Bill semns to have also suffered memo­ry loss while at Oxford, becauso ho forgot to graduato, and couldn't romomb<~r if' hn ever got a drafl notice. And, according to Monica Lewinski. Bill couldn't rnmcmbPr her name, while Im was not having sex with her. 
Bill also couldn't remember why one of his undorlings (Craig Livingston) had 1,000 FBI liles on llepublica11s. This pathetic, sacrificial underling himsdf couldn·t rnmmnbnr who got him his Whi!n I lousl1 job, even though it was a considorablo stop up from his otlwr prior nmployment: II) Clrnckflr in a tavern. (Chuck Colson, an aid to Prnsident Nixon, sorvnd six months in Fedora! Prison !'or improperly having onn FBI lilt!, during tlrn Watorgatn era.) 
Somn sources claimed that the First Lady was tho person who put Livingston in his job, You can see why she rnulrln't remember, sincn she couldn't remember how shn was able to earn $100.000 in her lone day of future's trading. Then she nmldn't remember how her Hose Law Firm's billing records "turn11d up" one day, in a private sitting room. in tlw White I louse! 
Bill Clinton promisnd "tlw most ethical administration in history." II<' delivered tlrn most forgetful. 
The past eight years havP bl1en v11ry good for the economy and then• have' bncn no foreign enemi11s at our shores (unlflss you count the Chinese spit•s in our m1cl11ar labs and the Clinton f'und raisnrs who fled back to China), so llw Clinton-Gore era dcsnrvedly should get some high marks in the history books. but when all thn chaptnrs arn completed. WP may learn that Honald Reagan was not tho only recent l'rnsident with a memory malady. 
Cappy Gagnon is a 1966 graduate of Notre JJame. where he sat alongside two future Pulitzer Prize u•inners in his journalism clm·ses. 
The l'iews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those uf The Obserller. 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT r-::::""::"':"::-:::""'.::":'.'::-::::::":'.':~==::-, E r-"::"'.'.~~~::::::::'.::::::::'.=:::--, 
~ THEN I APPLIED ~ SHALL I BEGINI DID THE ANALYSIS 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"When the President does it, that means it is not illegal." 
Richard M. Nixon President 


VIEWPOINT 
OTHE Thursday, March 30, 2000 BSERVER page 15 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
All we need is a 
Christian 
candidate 
First of' all. I must admit that I have been one of the many quietly ('.omplac0nt studrmts hPrc'. However. things I have seen recrntly in The Obst)l'Vtff havB finally brought me to action in writing. I bave two pur­posr\S within this letter. 
The first is to set a fow things strnight with '.\1ikc Marchand. I was lirst incm1sed when I mad his March 6 column decrying gun control. I was rinse Lo writing. hut again. my romplarency got the better or me. Luckily. the March CJ issu,! included a very good refutation for Marchand's argumHnts. Hyan Davis took the words out of my mouth (Marchand, why in the h0ck not have "smart guns" whir:h could tak0 over where human nrror and innocent irresponsibility take over? If only om! lifo is sav1:d. it is morP than Pnough to justify thn law.) 
Marchand's arguments rnmind me of a friend of' mine back homo who would support the right at all times (his family believed George W. too lilrnral). On tlw subj(ict or George W. Marchand wrote another r.ol­Lmm which requirns an answ,ir. For one thing. I wonder how someone as politically sawy as Gnorgn W. could not know about HJU's "racism and anti-Catholicism," l'VPn after past Republicans have visited thf' plac•) in previous years. I'm not saying that GW is a racist, but I am just saddmwd if' he is rnally willing to sell out on Catholics Lo court the far right {and 11qually so iftlw Democrats do the same thing.) 
Maybe Im g1muinnly didn't know about·13JU, but if he did, he shouldn't havn idnntified his party with it. Mr. Marchand's assertion that Bush has tlw support of Catholks in tlm "millions of Ilispanic Catholics" in Texas is simply ¼nmg. As a Hispanic Catholic from San Antonio. I know this is certainly not the case. As the GOP goes, he is making significant headway with some llispani1:s, but he is a far cry f'rom llw support that l\1archand implies. To a very large extent, i\foxican-t\mericans idt'ntily themselves with the Democratic party. Pven to this day. llis winning Tnxas was not due to the Hispanics, but dun to tlw statn's strong GOI' bas!'. 
This brings me to my sPrnnd point, a point which I share with A.J. Boyd (as snPn in "!nsidC' Column," on :vtarr.h 28), that! find "o!Tensive ... those who rPplace "Catholic" in tlrnir personal philosophies with ideas likl' 'conservative· or 'uniformity' and think the difference is neg­ligible." !!is words have linally lulled me out of' my complacency to writ(\ (I would first like to make clear that I do not categorize 'vlarchand in this group; it would be unfair of' me to as I do not fully know all of his political stancest. 
I think it is absolutely sickl'ning to se,i a Catholic sacrifice his or her belinls in favor of a party or ideology. A cas0 in point was the Democratir U.S. llepn1S(\lltative primary lwo years ago in my home district. Tlw primary, of' roursc, wm; essentially tlrn election because, in my largely llispanic district, thn GOP hardly stands a r.hancn. Both Democratic candidatns wen1 visible and prominent Hispanic Catholics. lloweVPr, both wen' ardently "pro-choice." How can any Catholic: run on such a platform'' Similarly, how can any Catholic support capital punishment as the GOP does'? 
The sadder thing is that. even in largely Hispanic Catholic districts, the voters don't seem to cam that they are electing a Catholic whose pl.a~~orms directly cnntradir:t one of tlm absolute most sacred teachings ol la1th. or tlwy am l'acnd with electing a lesser of' two evils. lt is sad whim p1!oplt! h1t ickology shape what they believe, when Christians arn nxpPctnd to put tlwir faith above all nlsc. 
I think it is kind of inten•sting that Father Bill Snetch put in an article o~ Ma'.ch 2~ also trying to give us a wake up r.all. I remember talking with him a lcw months back ,1xpressing my political frustration. I told him that I rnuld not be a lkpublican because of'tlmir positions on gun control (or lack thereon and on capital punishment (i.e. "the way we do things in Texas"). I lowever. I could not consider myself a Democrat because of' the party's oflicial disregard for life's sanctity in abortion. He told me that he agreed with me, and was very helpful. 
I wonder why tlu~re can't be a politician (maybe even a president'?) who pul-; his or hPr Christian beliefs above the party and political arena, when applicable (for instance in issues of abortion, debt relief and capital punishment). Why can't there be a politician who will not snll out to BJU or to racism in Al Sharpton (if what is said about him is tru0'?) I think that then' must be somPbody out tlwre reading this who is called into politics and who also is strong in faith. 
I personally don't know if I am, but he assurc•d that I must and inli\nd to answPr whatever calling I receive. I hope that more people in the church. laity and clergy will encourage its members tu seek politics a..,; a way to SP1 things right, in accord with the universal ideals found in Christianity. and in reality. all faiths (respect for life, helping others almost to a socialistic pnint and safoguarding peace, to name a few.)
i hopn that someone will answer this call to bo a true good servant of this country, but a first snrvant ofGod and all people. That way, we won't have to r:hoosn between tho less repulsive of' the platforms. I heard Father S11ctch say lhis once, and I hope other pricsL<; may echo this, "g1\l your rnar end into politics!" if you an• so called. Do not neglect your vocation. 
Jason Villarreal h·cshm,m Kect1at1 H,111 Mar,h 29, 2000 

ND security police insult was unfair 
NDSP is fair buffer from "real world" 
In response to Jeremy Beau's letter on 
March 27. I'd like to point out that the Notre 
Dame Police Department is not just a nui­
sance. Notrn Dame Security is a buffer 
from the South Bend "real" polic~, 
that may be underappreciated by 
Jeremy. The South Bend Police would have been just as glad to hand you a ticket if you had been in their jurisdic­tion. Also. Notre Dame Security usually refers students detained for such offenses as public drunkenness and even worse offenses directly to the University. If Notre Dame Security wanted, they could just hand you over to the South Bend Police. where you would bn prosecuted like the adult you are. do a night in lock-up and havr~ a per­manent mark on your record. The point is, the buffer from the "real" police that Notre Dame Security pro­vides is a more than fair trade-off for the parking/speeding tickets you may end up paying. I won't bother to ask the obvious questions 
of whether you were in fact speeding or 
parking in no parking areas. 
First Lieutenant Eliot Held Class of'97 Fon Wainwright, Ark. March 28, 2000 

Blatant whine about security police 
This is for Jeremy Beau and his recent comments directed toward the Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP). For those of you who missed his commentary, it boils down to this: 
he and some friends of his broke a bunch of rules set down by the University (and one local ordinance) and was irked by the audacity the NDSP showed in attempting to enforce these rules. If your goal was to come off sou11ding like a spoiled. 
trust fund brat who requires that he get his way. then congratula­
tions. You fit the mold. You did things you knew were wrong and were 
rJ-..,.,..,-1 punished in not unex­pected ways. I do not endorse the NDSP as the pinnacle of law 
enforcement, but this is not about them. It is about you, and your deci­sion to consider yourself better than all those who follow simple rules, rules such as where you are per­
mitted to park. The simple fact that you got not one, but three tickets for parking in a visi­
tor's lot demonstrates that either 
you're not too bright, or you think you're important enough to park next to signs that, for you, read "Do Not Park Here Or You Will Get A Ticket." 
You ought to work these things out for yourself and quit your whining. 
Daniel Roek Chemical Engineer, Graduate Student March 27, 2000 

Proving we are a "family" 
I wish to praise the actions of all Notre Dame students and I know I am not just speaking for myself. I am sure many were equally shocked and pleased at the turnout today. 
Thank you! To all who came to show their support for Conor Murphy: I have never been so proud to be a part of the Notre Dame com­munity as I am today. 
The way that students have responded to one of our own in need is overwhelming. 1 stood today in LaFortune and felt tears sting my eyes as Isaw how many students came to show their support for Conor Murphy. Hundreds more students than the local Junior 
League volunteers could handle turned out for the bone marrow drive today at LaFortune. It is a shame that people had to be turned away. 
I want to thank everyone who came today to show their love and support for a fellow Notre Dame student. I thank God that I am here amongst so many wonderful people. We should all be proud of the Notre Dame family today. Thank you. 
Amber Holleman 
Sophomore 
Lyons Hall 
March 29, 2000 
$ Viewpoint needs editors! $ Contact Lila at -631,5303 for more information 



MOVIE REVIEW 
Teen romance 'Earth' hits the right notes 
sullrm, wrath-filled young man who acts By LALJRA PETELLE out because hb mother died and his lat.her '.\(c.=-n1:.• Wrjrcr pays him no attr-mtinn. but that's tough to 
accept from the good-natured Klein. At 
Whf'n a wealthy boardin,e;-school boy any rate, Kelley makr,s no elfort LO be part meets a srnaJ!-town g-irl on the big sr:rof'n. or the town until he and Samantha discov­what r.an viewers !::'Xpect but a wrong-skfo­er each oLhAr and slowly fall in love. 
ol~thc-tracks romance'' Samantha is forced lO deci<ln between Add a fiery collision. a pm-existing small­Jasp0r, whom slrn's known forever and town boyfriend. a _iudge with crnative sen­who is her best friend. and Kelley. who tPnci ng powers and a could be "_just anot.hcr rich boy" looking l'or
medical condition, and "Here On Earth" 
von haw• all the c>lcmcnt<; kirks -likn tlrn rich ;11' .. HrrP on Earth," thr 
boy who got her older latest in a sPriAs of teen sister pregnant and left. romanr.P flirks that It is Samantha's indeci­includes ··10 Things I out offive shamrocl,s sion -and lwr ultimate 
Hate about You," "She's decision -which pro­vides thf! pivot point f'or
tlrn OnP" and "Down to Director: Mark Piznarski You." "I Jen· on Earth" is the movio. · a hm and poignant mcm-Starring: Leelee Sobieski, Althuugh all three 
bPr of this genre, if occa-Chris Klein and Josh Hartnett young actors an• good ­sionallv nwlodramatic. Klein, Sobirski. and 
Chris Kirin plays wealthy boarding 1lartnrlt all excel at portraying a compli­srhool student Kellev Morse. who receives cated range of' emotions. including angst a \lPrcr.des for gntduation and. in truP in all its forms -thP movi<' suffers from boarding-school fashion. s·neaks out with lack of clrn.ractr,r developnwnt. Jasp(ir is his friends to driw it and taunt thA town­pres(,ntcd as a not-too-bright farm boy at 
Photo courtesy 01 20th l..entury Fox 
ies. He pushes farm-boy Jasper !Josh the beginning, yet as the movin goes on, hP 
Chris Klein stars with Leelee Sobieski as a young couple in love in the teary 
Hartnett, with a very bad haircut) too far. keeps coming up with sensitivn, insightful 

love story, "Here On Earth."
and Jasper and his friPnd hop in their car lines that seem beyond the reach ol' his and race Kelley and his friends. The race character. Kelll~Y never quite semns sullen ends when the boys run over the gas enough to make viewers beliew he would muscled physique. The writers want view­teenagers and teen lovers talk to one pumps outside Mable's Table -the act the way he does, nor is his growing <11"S to believe it is Kelley's love of Hobert another, although it is irritating to be 
rrstaurant owned bv Samantha acceptance by the town -and his growing Frost that wins Samantha's heart, but that asked (once again) to beliew that every 18­Cavanaugh {Lcelee Sobieski) and her fami­acceptancn of the town -very wPll por­senms contrived. year-old in thn world hops in tlw sack ly -setting oIT an explosion from which trayed. Hegardh1ss of weaknesses in the script, evnry 20.minutes. the boys escape relatively unscathed, but And it would be the rare 18-ynar-old all three principll\ parts are well-played, "Hnn\ on Earth" is definitPly worth see­which burns thr restaurant to the ground. who could deal with thP events at the end and the supporting cast is excellent -if' ing, especially for those moviegoers (like 
Kelley and Jasper are sentenced to com­of the movie with the ·maturity that Kell()y substantially lnss attractive than the thrnn this rnviewer) who harbor a secret liking munity service. in the form of helping shows. Samantha's character is tlw best­loading characters. Samantha's father, in for teen romance movies. And seeing Klein rebuild the diner and Kelley. lacking a developed of the three. but one remains particular, is a bnlicvable charactnr as a shirtless is worth the four bucks. But it's a placr. to live in Urn:n, moves in with unsure as to why she foll for Kelley, other craggy-faced cop who loves his family. And three-hankin llick, so make sure to bring Jasper's family. Kelley is supposed to be a than his staggering good looks and well-the writers do have a genuine ear for how tlrn KlPenex box. 
VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 


Spielberg confronts issues of race in 'The Color Purple' 
While he ultimately produrcd ing men around hnr, Goldberg
ByJOHN CRAWFORD 
an emotional and solid movie, brings out Celie's inner l'ecl­
Sct'nc i\1ovir Crfric 
which sr,rved as a prr. cursor to ings through a face serving as s1:rious films such as "Saving a soul mirror. Her emotions StevPn Spielberg bad doubts Private Byan" and "Amistad." flow through her ey(~S and 
when Quincy Jones first 
not everyone was happy with exprnssions. Her smilos are approached him to direct a the director's efforts. The l'ilm warm. her frowns heartbreak­film basrd on Alice \Valker's brought Spielberg critical ing. novel "The Color People." acclaim and another box-office Hers is just one of' several Spielberg, after all. was the hit, but also backlash from the strong performances in thn. director of popcorn movies like black community. Critics film, including Danny Glover "Jaws" and ''Haiders of the charg<~d that he toned down as Celie's husband, whom she Lost Ark," not serious, charac­the content o!' Walker's book to calls "Mister," and Oprah ter-driven dramas based on secure a PG-13 rating and, ulti­Winl'rny (yes, that's Oprah Pulitzer Prize-winning books. matelv, the film received one Winfrey) as the tough Sofia. a Besides, Spielberg, being white of the.biggest shutouts in Oscar woman whose spirit is eventu­and male, wondernd if he could historv. ally broken by racist whites. relate to a ntm dealing with an Set ·in th<' south during the Winf'rry and Goldbrrg were 
Af'rit'an-i\mPrican woman's 
Jirst part of' the 20th century, a both nominated for Oscars. ln experiences. tim11 of hate and division, thr\ all. thn film rec()ived l 1 nomi­
''llon't vou want to find fl nlm centers on the quiet Colic, nations, though amazingly, black <lirr~r.tor or a woman'!" played by Whoopi Goldberg, no1w l'or dirnctor as lho Spielberg who su r­i\utdPmv continurd a. resent­
asked. 
vivcs in a m<1nt to~ards Spielberg that
"The Color Purple" 
" '\' 0 U 
world of wouldn't pass until his 
Photo courtesy ot Warner Bros. Pictures
didn't bavr hurtful lloloca11st epic "S('hindlnr's to come Whoopi Goldberg plays Celie, a woman struggling against early 
relation­List" On Oscar uight. "The Crom Mars Director; Steven Spielberg ships and Color l'urpl11" didn't win a sin­20th century racism in "The Color Purple." to do "ET" 
moan men. glo trophy.
Starring: Whoopi Goldberg, Oprah
did you'!" Confronted Tlw lilm also f'acnd backlash "Nothing can do it bnttnr than 'This movir, st0rcotypesrcpli<·d Winfrey and Danny Glover f'irsl by an from parts of tlw black com­a good beating." whites,"' shn said. .foiws. vvho 
inccsLuous munity who criLir.iznd a white Of' coursn. with complicated In a way. though, all the con­was snrvi11g as a co-producPr l'athPr then an abusivn hus­dirnctor's portrayal of black isstws such as race. tlwrP arn troversy surrounding tlw film on t\w film. 
band. sho struggles to koep char1u:t11rs. Though Mistnr no easy answnrs or solitary makes it an even more intr,r­Spic·lbcrg 1•vcntually agrt'l!d 
hope while St\rving thnsP nwn 1•.vnntually grabs somn rndnmp­perspectives. Though the nsting vinwing. Not only is it to helm thl' 1985 movi1:, taking in kitchens ,tnd bPdrooms. tion by th,, end of' tlrn movin, hn movie presonts a world wlWI'() full ol' nrnmorable characters f'arns
a chnllPngf' that many As the vulncrabl(• b11t ii nd o'tlwr nrnlc ch;u·acte1·s are ndationships ar() often basod and scnnns, but it l'orcns !tn 
,trtists: how do vou accuratelv 
rnsilicnt C:elin, Goldberg gives nsscntially lnering, sexist and on beatings. (;oldberg and oth­audinni:n to think about toughand l"()alistically ·pr1:sent a sub·­
an Pxccllent perf'ormancr,. violent adulterers and rapists. ers defended Uic picture. questions regarding race and
ject that you may not be• nntire­
BPcause hor character is "You gol to Int tlwm [wonrnnl "Pnoplo sne lots of movios the sensitivity of' artists· rnprn­ly familiar with? For llw most l'on:Pd into subsPrvi11nce and know who has thn uppor whore whiln mon abusn white sen tations or worlds outside 
part, hr was su('('f)SS f'u 1. 
hushed words by Lhe dominat-hand," Mister tells his son, women, and tlrny nnver think their own. 
---· -------------------· --------­

Thursday, March 30, 2000 page 17 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Ending of 'Gate' leaves its audienCe behind 
·By MATT NANIA 
\Vhcn onp looks al llw early r(lrrer 
of' director Homan Polanski. they arc 
likPIV to bn struck with awn. This is, 
af'tP1: all. lh1! man who gavP us tvvo of 
ci1wrnu's rlassks: "Hosnmary's Baby" 
and "Chinatown." 
In lat<'r yn:irs, though, his work has 
b1'1•n rompntl'nt. but not quite as 
spPrtarnlar. With "The Ninth (;alr:," 
Polanski shows us that lw's still got 
hts dir1'cling chops -to StHllP extent. 
This is a sup r <' m1' Iy in l PI l ig <' n t 
movir.. which. dPspitc its languid 
quality. draws its ,Ludienn: into u sin• 
istPr world of' dt'monic Ion'. With a 
vI' ry a bso r b ing op 1\ ni 11 g cre d i t 
s<' q u c n ,. ('. th P l'i I m mov11 s niccly at 
f"irsL weaving an cnrie. i.;othic /'abrk 
around its 1·harn1·wrs. Sadlv. its veil<,d 
Pncling nParly ruins thr f'ilni completP­
I\. 
TIH' storv introclucns thn audi<rn<'.0 lo 
!) t' an Co ·I's fl LI oh n n y I) Pp p). an 
unscrupulous rarP book cxpcrt who 
will dn ,Llmost any-. 

poetic !"Dead Man") conceptions and turn into the r.mbodirnent of those sto­ries, anchoring them to earth. From the first scene, as he cons a greedy bourgeois couple out of a book collec­tion, Depp is right in tune with Polanski's dry malice. 
It remains, however, that these ele­ments aren't enough to salvage a film that teases its audienr:e for two hours only to thumb its nose at them in the end. Surely. after such a mysterious journey, the least one can hope for is some sort of tangible pay-off. 
Since "The Ninth Gate" plays like a 
marginally entertaining detective story, the overall enjoyment of watr:h­ing the film would have been greatly hr1ightened had it not left so many questions unanswered. Why did the original owner of the book hang him­self'? Who is killing whom? Who is the mysterious woman? What is the Ninth Gate? 
For all its seemingly careful plotting and Polanski's eye for quirky detail. the film's ultimate revelation seems too much like an afterthought. making the movie a lengthy joke without a clear punr:hline. 
thing tn prcicun• rarr "The Ninth Gate" everything in tlrn 
books f'or l'('salP. low-key style of' a 
Corso is rontract<•cl 
classic filrn-noir who­by Oil(' or his prcsti· donc-it. gious clinnts. Boris And. despite a few 
Balkan I Frank 011/ of live shamrocks slow spots, the pacing 
LHngclla in cr;,repy of' lhe story is nearly utmp gloryl. to Director: Roman Polanski perfect. A mystery au L h (' n ti rat<' a v o I· centered on books
Starring: Johnny Oepp, Frank 
u m (' o I" .. Th ,1 N in <' should unfold aL a c; at P s r1 f' th P tangella and Lena Olin tempo different from 
Soon the ownrHs of these other copies «re murdered and Corso finds himself' caught up in R labyrinth of dC'ct:plion an<l danger that includes bring hunted by the widow !Lena Olin) of th<' book's original owner and being l'ollovved by a mysterious woman (Emmanuelle Seignerl with supernatural powers. 
"The Ninth Gate" is extremely well crafted·. Ad;ipting the film frorn the novel "El Club Dumas" by Arturo Perez Hcverw, Polanski produees an e!'foctivcly dark and otherworldly atmosphern without rnsnrting to trite shadows-and-fog 1:ffocts. Polanski's strengths as an auteur -his dry wit. 1-litchcock-ian camera movement, striking visual imagery and an <~ngrossing, brooding narrative -are al! on display hMc. 
ThP movir df'als heavily with the occult. yet Polanski never once stoops to chf'ap theatrics as wen" used in s u c h fi l m s as ·• En d o f D a vs " an d "SLigrnata." There are no 1nonsters coming out of the depths of hell or supernatural beings casting deadly 
spells. Polanski keeps 
Kingdom of Lh<' Shadows."' a satanic tom(1 rumorr,d Lo r·onjurr' thP Dark Lord hims<'lf". 
TravP!ing from Ne,,· York Cit-y to Portugal and l•'ntn('('. Corso comes across two ultrrnal\' versions of thn book. Pach containing new secrnts ror unlocking th<' kPy to summon Satan.. 
Box OFFICE 
the pell-moll acceler• alion or today's thriller. 
Depp's pPrformance is solid as usual. capturing a man driven by a force he can't control. Nothing sirnms impossiblP for Depp 11s 11n actor. He can lend himself' to a I'ilmmaker's most fantastiral ("Sleepy Hollow") or 



1. 
2. 3. 4. 5. 
6. 7. 8. 9. 10. 

Weekend of March 24-26 
Movie Title  Weekend Sales  Total Sales  
Erin Brockovich  $ 18. 5 million  $ 55.8 million  
Romeo Must Die  $ 18.1 million  $ 24.6 million  
Final Destination  $  7.2 million  $ 20.4 million  
Mission to Mars  $  5. 7 million  $ 49.2 million  
Here On Earth  $  4,5 million  $  4.5 million  
Whatever It Takes  $  4.1 million  $  4-., million  
American Beauty  $  4.1 million  $108. 5 million  
My Dog Skip  $  3.1 million  $ 26.1 million  
The Cider House Rules $  2.8 million  $ 49,6 million  
The Whole Nine Yards $  2.1 million  $ 54.1 million  
Source: Yahoo!  

Julia Roberts' "Erin Brockovich" dominated fhe box office last weekend, raking in an impressive $18.5 million in its second week of release. Roberts' movie-star appeal and Universal's marketing blitz guaranteed "Brockovich's" success. "Romeo Must Die," Warner Bros.' attempt at recreating "The Matrix's" box-office numbers, did moderately well in attracting martial-arts fans. "Mission to Mars," Touchstone's high-budget sci-ti extravaganza, brought substantially less box-office receipts in its third weekend of release. Negative word-of-mouth and misleading previews contributed to the film's decline in attendance. Multiple Oscar-nominees "American Beauty" and "The Cider House Rules" benefitted from their inclusion in the Academy Award's Best Picture race, bringing in $4.1 million and $2.8 million, respectively. 
Thursday, March 30, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 18 
NBA 

Sonics drop game to Knicks, continue losing streak 
three quarters. lead Vancouver, which lost for the baseline with 4:28 to go. the lead 74-71 with 10:16 to go.Associated Press 
Seattle trimmed the deficit to the 14th Lime in 15 decisions. With 4:01 on the dock, he hit After Hill's two free throws, the 71-66. but then failed to score Teammate· Sharnef Abdur­a runner from the lane for an Hornets increased their odge to 
Allan Houston led a balanced on four consecutive possessions Rahim added 30 points and 13 85-76 lead. 79-73 with a three-point play by attack with 19 points and as Shammond Williams missed rebounds. Jeff Hornacek scored 13 Todd fuller and two foul shots Marcus Camby added 18 points three straight perimeter shots. The Grizzlies stayed with Los points, Bryon Russell 12 and by Eddie Jones. and a career-high 19 rebounds The Knicks took a 67-54 lead Angeles early. hitting seven of Greg Ostertag collected 13 Charlotte led by as many as Wednesday as the New York with 7:40 left in the third period their first 10 field goal attempt,;; rebounds for Utah. seven, but Hill's three-point play Knicks rolled to a 110-95 victo­when Vin Baker inadvertently and finishing the first quarter The Jazz shot 1i-of-17 from f'inisbcd a rally that brought ry over the Seattle Supersonics. tapped in Larry Johnson's miss trailing :n:30 on 71 percenl the foul line, led by Stockton's Detroit within 84-8:1 with 5:44 
The Knicks dealt the Sonics while trying to rebound the ball. shooting. Howc-,vcr. the Lakcrs' 6-of-6 effort. to go. The Pistons got no dosrr their fifth straight homecourt Patrick Ewing scornd 13 of his defense stymif'd Vancouver in as the Hornflts scored lhe next loss. which equaled the third­17 points in the first half. the ser,ond pF~riod as the visitors four points from thr line.
Hornets 98, Pistons 91
longest home losing streak in After Brent Barry's 3-point took a 60-46 halftime load. Sonics historv. The Sonics had play trimmed the deficit to 48­
Anthony Mason had 22 points,
not lost fivp straight home 46. Houston sr.ored five of the Nuggets 101, Wizards 93
Jazz 98 , 76ers 84 10 rebounds and eight assists Lo games sinr,e December 1968. Knir,ks' eight straight points for lead the Charlotte IIornets to a
their ser,ond year in the league. a 56-46 lead. New York led 59-Nick Van Exel, who went
Karl Malone sr,ored 30 points 98-91 victory ovr,r the Detroit
Latrdl Sprewell surpassed the 49 at halftime. scoreless on O-for-7 shooting in
and John Stockton added 20 as Pistons in a battle of two of the the first half, found the range10.000 point mark in his career tlrn Utah Jazz beat Philadl'lphia East's hottest teams after hall'time and finished withwhen he stoic thr ball and drove 
Lakers 108, Grizzlies 99 98-84 WedMsday night, snap­Wednesday.
half the court for a layup and a 2fi points as the DenvPr Nuggets
ping lhe 76ers· seven-game The Hornets now lead the defeated the' Washington
102-82 Knicks lead with 4:13 
Kobe Bryant sr,orcd 28 points winning streak. Pistons by thrne gamos in tho 
left. He has 10,001 points in his Wizards 101-93 Wednesday
to help the Los Angeles l.akers Malone had 12 p.iints in the race for the No. 6 seed in the 
career after finishing with 18 night. .
reach the 60-win plateau for the third quarter, including eight of Eastern Conference playoffs. 
points. Van Exel lr,d a 16-0 third­
second time in three seasons, Utah's first l O in the period as The win extended Charlotte's
Gary Payton led the Sonics quarter run that put Dcnvor
pounding the Vancouver the Jazz stretr,hed a 45-41 half­winning streak to four games
with 21 points. Reserve Ilashard ahead for good as the Nuggets
Grizzlies 108-99 Wednesday time lead to 55-45 just over and took some or 'the luster off
Lewis added 18. salvaged a 2-2 split from their
night. three minutes into tho scr,ond Detroit's 4-1 West Coast trip. 
The loss dropped the Sonics four-game road trip.
The victory gave the Lakers a half. David Wesley added 18 points
two games behind the Bookie James Posey scored a
60~12 rernrd and a· magir, m11n­Allen Iverson scored 18 points for Charlotte. whilo Eldon
SacramPnto Kings in the loss career-high 25 points and
ber of five to clinch home-court one night ufler ho had 43 in a Campbell had 16 points and 13
column in the rar,c for seventh rnatr,hed a carnPr high with
advantage throughout the play­vir,tory at Minnesota. But. maybe rebounds. Grant Hill led Detroit
place in the Western ninP rebounds, and /\ntonio
offs. It also was the second­that took too much out of' him. with 26 and Jrrrv Stackhouse
Conference. McDyoss had 24 points and 12
fastest the Lakers have rernrd­as he shot 7-of-21 against the added 19. . 
ThP Knirks pounded the rebounds for Denver. Mitr,h
ed 60 wins. trailing only the defense of Stockton and Howard Detroit led by as many as 13
Sonics 57-30 on the boards. Richmond scornd 22 points for
1971-72 team, whirh wo.n 69 Eisley. • points in the second quarter.
Camby was 8-for-13 from the the Wizards. whosp, late-season 
games. The Sixers never led, but they but seven points from Mason in
field as New York dominated surge hit a serious roadblock
All five Lakers starters srored never gave up either. Twice in the period got tlrn Hornets with­
.. Seattle inside, outscoring the with a 36 percent shooting per­
in double figures. but it was the fourth quarler they came in 47-43 at the half. Starkhouse
Sonics 44-32 in the paint. formance. Washington had won
Bryant who set the pace. l-Ie hit within three points. The Jazz had 14 in the half, while Mason
Payton vvas hounded all night live of its previous six. 
7-of-10 from the field in the first found an answer each time, and had 12. 
The Wizards led 60-52 withbv the Knicks defense. He was 
half. and ended with four steals Stockton sealed it with a six­Charlotte took its first lead of
s:for-22 from the firld and had 3:55 to go in the third period
and six rebounds to lead Los point spurt midway through the the game, 60-57 midway
10 assists and three steals. Vin when Van Exel started the 1(i-O
Angeles to its 26th win in 27 fourth quarter. through the third, by using a 6­
Baker had 15 points for the spurt with a 21-foot jumper. By
outings. A baskrt by Tyrone Hill 0 run. But John Crotty's 3-point­
Sonics. but only four rebounds. the time the run was over. Van
Shaquille O':\Jeal added 19 trimmed Philadelphia's defidt to er and a driving layup by Grant
Payton's 3-point play trimmed Exel had added a 3-pointer. a
points and had eight assists, 79-76 with 5:33 to play, but l !ill let the Pistons regain a 71­
the Knicks' lead to 75-69. The J'adeaway 19-l'oot jumper at the
improving his average of 3. 7 Stockton hit 18-f'oot jumper, 69 advantage by quarter's end.
Knicks closed the quarter with a shot dor,k buzzer and a pair of
assists per contest. then came off a screen by Charlotte opened the fourth
9-2 run led by Camby's five free throws to make the sr,orn
Mir,hael Dickerson had 32 to Malone to make an 8-footer on period with a 5-0 run. taking
points for an 84-71 lead after 68-60. 
The Ohserver accepts classifieds every husiness Jay from 8 a.rn. rn 31>.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.rn. Al classifieds must he prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cems per character per day, indnding all sp,ices. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content withom issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES THE COPY SHOP  CURATORIAL ASSISTANT wanted for the Snite Museum of Art. Work study is available10-15 hrs./wk for 2000-01 school year. Responsibilities include  1721 Rerick 3 Bedroom. Family room with Fireplace, Fenced Backyard. CIA Gas Heat, Across From Park, Very Safe Neighborhood $995/mo. 12 mo. lease  ITS NOT TOO LATE A newly remodeled 5 bedroom house is still available to rent for the fall semester. 2 full baths. washer & dryer. huge rec room, security sys- PERSONAL THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center  To my silly little weirdo-happy 19th birthday to the most insane showgirl I know. I don't think you're scary. Love, Panda, Wapee, and Omee (aka the Bandits)  
LaFortune Student Center Store Hours Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Mid Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat: Noon-6:00pm  scheduling tours and entering com· puter info. Fine Arts major with knowledge of FileMaker Pro and design programs preferred, but not necessary. Call curator of education  Call 232-4527 Close to Campus 219-340-1844 616·683-5038 Look! New Home for Rent 314  tern.Call now to see. 277-0636. 4 bedroom, 2 full baths, washer & dryer, basement with hot tub, new  High-Speed Copying Color Copying Resumes Business Cards  MJW-looks like I'll be missing your big day too. 1"11 have lots on my mind in Bloomington. But I'll take you up on your offer for Sunday!  
Sun: Noon-Mid Free Pick-Up & Delivery!  Shannon Masterson at 631-4435 for more info.  Bedroom 3 Bath, Cathedral Ceilings,  furnace, security system. Call for a showing 277-0636.  Fax Service Desktop Publishing  Who needs 1 Opage papers? Not me.  
Call 631-COPY  Fireplace,Refrig,Range,Disp,Dish,  &a whole lot more!  
We're open late so your order wifl be done on time1  SUMMER EMPLOYMENT: ART  Washer & Dryer.Gas heat I CIA, 2­car  FOR SALE  Prompt Pick-Up & Delivery  Virginia is my new favorite state.  
EDUCATION ASSSITANT for Snite Museum of Art.  garage.Family room.Close to Campus. 616-683-5038  Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and  Call 631-COPY LESBIAN? GAY? FRIEND or FAMI- Except for Florida. (That's for you, Stina)  
ARE YOU MOVING TO BOSTON NEXT FALL AND LOOKING FOR A  Assist Education Curator with sum­mer youth art program focusing on  219-232-4527 219-340-1844  deluxe frame. New, never used, still in  LY of someone who is? You're welcome to join others on  Holy Cross '00'01-we will rock that dorm!  
ROOMMATE?  museum objects and related hands- plastic. $235  219-862-2082  Retreat. March 31 · April 1.  
WANT TO LIVE NEAR HARVARD SQUARE? l'M GOING TO GRADU- on activities. June 5th to July 28th, 10 hrs./week.  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR GOOD AREA  Call tom @ 1 ·4112 or Alyssa @4­3194 for details.  The prayers worked. Thanks. God.  
ATE SCHOOL AND LOOKING FOR A FEMALE INTERESTED IN SHARING AN APARTMENT IN  Fine Arts major with exp. teaching and/or working with children pre­!erred. June 26th to July 28th additional  NORTH 2773097 2 bedroom, 2 bath apartment for  Half stack amp, effects pedal, 12­string guitar for sale. Call Chris for details x1840.  -We're not players ... we JUSI CRUSH a lot!! Lewis Crush 2000  We might be done early tonight. It's only 1 :55. How excited would I be to get out before 6:30?  
CAMBRIDGE. MASS CALL EMILY A 634-3142 IF YOU ARE INTER­ESTED.  Work Study Hours -ii eligible • with National Youth Sports Program to make a total of 40 hours/wk. if  lease during summer session Close to campus, washer/dryer. Call Erin 4­ TICKETS  Pull out your grass skirts and get ready lo shake your coconuts- Lei's avoid dumb, dumber and dumbest: the reunion.  
desired.  4238 1f interested.  Crush 2000.  Someone better start sweet talkin'  
WANTED  PLUS room and board included June 26th to July 28th.  N.D. • SAINT MARY'S GRADUA­ GET OUT OF HEREI Mexico, the Caribbean or Jamaica $250 round trip. Other worldwide  Are you on the list??  the printer. Where's M'Shan when you need her? It must be missing the 'backer.  
CALL education curator Shannon  TION RENTAL, 4 BEDROOM  destinations cheap. Book tickets  Thursday night ladies in 249 and I  
TEACHER WANTED: ND/SMC families need teacher for next year to instruct  Masterson, 63-4435, ASAP.  HOME ARLINGTON HEIGHTS, 2 Ml FROM CAMPUS, RENT FOR  on-line ww.airtech.com or 1-800· 575-TECH.  can go out! I bet you are all so excited.  Noal1, I really don't like honey mustard. I'm sorry.  
children in home setting. Part-time position. SalaryNacation nego­liable.  FOR RENT  WEEKEND, 219·273·0625  4 'CREED' TIX, APRIL 1, FT. WAYNE, x2345.  Mary Louise and Andrea Louise -I am so glad we are living by you all next year.  Let's play the "Who gave me mono?" game!!  
Call 258-9707  HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 5-bed- Large clean 2+ bedroom with base• rnent and garage. Top floor of very  Good luck at the retreat, Tigger.  I'm done thinking.  
SUMMER JOB: Caregiver: two chil, dren. ages 7&8. Mon-Fri,7:30AM­ room. $1000/month. 2) 4bedroom, $900/month. 3) 3-bedroom, $700. Call Bill at 675­ clean duplex near ND. Ideal for single graduate student w11nting space  '91 RED VW JETTA: NEW TIRES, BELTS, RADIATOR. CLUTCH. EXCELLENT  Midnight Madness ­ one day left!  We are all dumber after working here tonight.  
3:15 PM. Jun 12-Aug 18 Granger. 272-6107 or  0776. We'll make almost any changes to  and convenience. &600/mo. plus ulili•  CONDITION · NO RUST -GREAT MILEAGE -VERY SHARP. CALL  JM-sorry I can't be there for your big day Ill be thmking of you in  Sorry I showed up at your party ... haha.  
284-3485  the houses  ties, deposit 674-1670.  219-277-9683  Bloomington. You'll rock the house.  
AFTER 6 PM. $3750.  You're the maddest of them all!  Sleep?  You don't get sleep.  
'  
)  
'  
'  
I  
'  
I  
'  
L  

Thursday, March 30, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
ss 

class dinner at BW3s on tuesday, april 4 from 6-Spm, $2 

spirit week: (rnon, april 3-sun, april 9) 
all events will be free of cost. donations will go to the miranda thomas schola 
man, april 3: class dinner at lafortune ballroom, 5-7pm. tues, april 4: karaoke at reckers, 9-1 Ipm wed. april 5: movie "animal house" at debartolo I02, 8pm thurs, april 6: game show at reckers, 7-9pm fri, april 7: class recess day, location and time tba sun, april 9: class· mass, location and time tba 


spirit week thurs, mar 30: free sub movie at debartolo with class t-shir fri, mar 3 I: polaroid scavenger hunt with cash prizes sat, april I, class dance at alumni-senior club ' ' 
-' 
' I _l I
I ' i I' 
I 
' 
' l ' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' l 
*positions for the 2000-200 I office of the president staff h outside of the student government office. thank you to all 
*transfer orientation applications are available in the stude office (2nd floor lafortune). they are due this week. 
*"faculty-student lunch" thursday, mar 30, college of archit in the hospitality room of south dining hall. 
acoustic cafe, thurs, march 30, in the huddle, 9pm-I 2am 
sleepy hollow: thurs, mar 30, I 0:30 pm. fri and sat, 8pm and I 0:30 pm. $2 admission, IO I debartolo. 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 30, 2000 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 



Portugal, Schourek lose positions with Reds, Pirates 
Schournk and gave rookie left­''!In just said he felt achy all innings and Jolbert Cabrnra Toronto to four hits and struck A.soci.ited Press hander Jimmy Anderson the over and could n ·t get loose," went 5-for-5 with an HBI. out s,wen in seven shutout job. manager Tony La Hussa said. innings. 
The Cincinnati Heds and Pittsburgh Pirates found thP-ir fifth starter. forc:ing Mark Portugal and Petr Schou rnk to look for n!'w jobs. 
Thr<'P days al'tN announcing that-Portugal was thrir fifth starter. tlw Hods changed their minds and rel1\ased him Werlnesdav. 
The PirZttes did tlH' same to PPtr Sdrnnrek. who thoui{ht he had canwd tho No. :i spot in Pittsburgh's rotation with a strong outing a day before~. 
Thr about-fare stun1rnd Portugal. rotation rnplarement Hob Rf'll. and a rlubhouS<' full of t<·RmmtLtcs who thought th,\ pitching staff was sot. Portugal's rough outing on Tuesday prompted general n1an1tger Jim Bowden to rhango his mind. 
"BewildPred is probably the bi~st word I can <'Orne up wilh." right-handrr PPte llarnisch 
said.  "Shocked  is  probably  
anothrr one..,  
Portugal  had  a  4.50  ER,\  

when Bowden announced that he'd won the fifth starter's job. His Tuesday outing raised it to 
6.00. still the sernnd-lowest in a rotation that has struggled this spring. 
"They didn't really get into some of the reasons. but I just think the timing of it is kind of weird," Portugal said. 
Convinced that Schourek was no longer the pitcher who won 18 games for Cincinnati in 1995. the Pirates released 
Only one day earlier. Sr:hourck. who is guarantor.cl $2 million, seemed to have secured a spot in tile rotation by limiting 
a. Minnl~sota split squarl to two runs in six innings, his best start this spring. 
'Tm conf'idcnt I can pitch," saio SdlOll!'f'k, 4-'i with a s.:14 EHA lRst season. "ThPy told me it was a numbers game. The S,2 million appanrnily di<ln 't mean anything." 
Owner Kevin McClatchy gavP gcnr.ral manager Cam Bonifay pnrmission to l'at Srhournk's rontract il' he an<l manag1'.r GenP Lamont !'Pit the l'iratns were bettt'.l' with Anderson i_n tho rotation. 
Their spring numhers wr.rP nearly identical. Scl11)urck was 2-l with a 5.40 EHA and Pight strikeouts in 20 innings and Anderson was 3-1 with a ri.17 El1A and nine strikeouts in 15 2-3 innings. 
'Tm not n"al worried about th0 baseball side of' it." Schourek said. "I thought I threw well this spring and worked out some things I had problems with last season. I think I'll have a produr,tive sea­son for somebodv." 
At Jupiter,. Fla.. Mark McGwire was rr.moved with stiffness in his back in tlw. third inning of thP St. Louis Cardinals' 3-1 win over the Montreal Expos. 
McGwirc was replaced by a pinch runnor after drawing a walk in the third inning. 
"110 cDuld have scored in the first inning. but he said he just <'oulrln't run wcll enough." 
OutfirldN J.D. Drew was hit on his right pinkir by a pitch from Scott Stri<'.kland in the sixth inning. His status was u11 c.nrtai n. 
"We'll know more in lhn morning," La Hussa said. "lie sncms to bl~ OK." 
Dodgers 7, Braves 2 
Al Kissimm<w. Fla.. Cary Shef'fiP!d hit a pair of home runs, including a two-run shot off (;reg Maddux. and drovr in 11Vl'. runs. Kovin Brown allow(\d Oil!' run and !'our hits in 4 2-] innings, giving up only a solo honrnr to Chipper Jo,ws. 

Orioles 8, Expos 2 
At Fort Laudnrdaln, Fla., Mike Mussina allowed two runs over six innings in his last start bdorn opnning day. llarold Bairn~s wnnt :)-for-3 with two 
HB!s. 

Red Sox 4, Reds 3 
Al Sarasota. Fla.. Pete IIarnisch gave up throe runs in six innings, including an HBI singlo and a sacrifice fly by Nomar Garciaparra. on the day Cincinnati pirkcd him as its opnning day startPr. 

Indians 3, Astros 2 
At Kissimnrno. Fla .. navn Burba pitched five score Inss 

Pirates 3, Blue Jays 1 
At Bradenton, Fla., Jason Schmidt tuned up ror his opr.n• ing day start by pitching shuloul ball for his second straight spring start. Schmidt. who starts Monday night against Ilouston. limited 
Yankees 5, Phillies 1 
At Tampa, Fla., Opening day starter Orlando llcrnandcz allowed one run in six innings and Den1k Joter had a 'pair of' HR! singles as New York won its sovcnth straight gaml'. 

. 5:00 p.m. Gym 2 
. background required, For Men: NO cbeer\ead1~i6 4/7 4/10, 4/11 Clinics: 4/4, 4/5,& 1s' C\o;ed to Public Tryouts: April 13 "\ 14 Open to All 6 p.m. 
Tryout Apn

Leprechaun 
Thursday, March J,0, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
page 21 

"Jubilee Debt Relief & Women's Concerns" 
THURSDAY, March 30, 2000 7:30-9:00PM 
SR. ESTHER AoJOA ENTSIWAH -GHANA @ the Center for Social Concerns 
r. James Wolfensohn. President orld Bank Group 
1809 G Street. N.W. ashington. D.C. 20433 
)ear Mr. Wolfcnsohn: 
As Presidents of the University of Notre Dame. Saint Mary's College, and Holy 
ross College, and in the spirit of the Jubilee Year celebrated on each of our campuses, we re writing to request that you support an immediate suspension of the economic policies nd practices that have caused poverty and suffering among the world's peoples. and amage to the environment. On the occasion of the first meetings of the governing bodies 
if the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund in the 21 st century. we further call in you to cancel the unpayahle multilateral deht of the world's poorest countries and use he resources of the World Bank and !Ml' to finance this cancellation. 
We make these requests hascd on the call of our faith for solidarity among the emhers of the human family. genuine deht relief in the spirit of Juhilee. poverty 'duction. and glohal economic justice. Pope John l'aul II has hcen eloquent and unrelent­. ng in his call for deht relief. He has noted that the existence of deht is "suffocating'" quite 
few countries. and that "the Chu re h in her pastoral concern cannot ignore this difficult situation ..." I urge you. in your position as President of the World Bank. not to ignore this situation any longer hut to propose and support immediale and significant action to cancel 
he deht which seriously threatens the lives of millions of people that our Congregation inisters to. throughout the world. Archhishop Medardo Mawmhwe of 7.amhia has written that "The deht problem ·snot simply an economic issue. It is fundamentally an ethical issue because it is a adically human prohlem, affecting the well-herng of families. the survival of the poor. the 
onds of community. and the ~ecurity of the future:· We join with the Archbishop and ith the Bishops of the United States. and urge you lo take the opportunity of the spring cetings to addrcs.~ the dcht i.~.sne. making the ycar 2000 a true Juhilce year for the world's 
eoplc who need it most. We will experience a true Juhilee only when the well hcmg of all. including the orld's most vulnerable people and ecosystems. is given priority over macroeconomic djustment and ncolihcral economic policy. We urge you. m the spirit of Jubilee justice. 
o take courageous action now: ahandon the failed policy of structural adjustment and ·ancel the debt of the world's most heavily indehtcd countries. 
Sincerely.  
(Rev.)Edward Malloy. CSC  Dr. Marilou Eldred  Br. Richard Gilman. CSC  
ntVCrfiily of Notre Dame.  Samt Mary'fi College  IIoly Cross College  
otre Dame. Indiana  Notre Dame. Indiana  Notre Dame. Indiana  

"Jubilee Debt Relief: A Call for 
Global Solidarity & Response" 
SATURDAY, April 1st 
3:00 -4:30pm ARCHBISHOP OSCAR RODRIGUEZ-HONDURAS 
SR. ESTHER AoJOA 
ENTSIWAH -GHANA 
DR. ELIZEUS RUTEBEMBERWA -UGANDA @ Notre Dame's Snite Auditorium. Please join us for 5:00PM Mass 
At the Basilica 
\\\rt 1,,, 
.. 
.,·
·, . 
' 
0 0 '"' 
---------........­
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 30, 2000 
WOMEN'S NIT TOURNAMENT 

Moore lifts Wisconsin over Florida to claim NIT title 
Associated Press 
Tamara Moor<' sr.ored 2fi points as Wisconsin blew all but one point of a 15­point second-half lead beforn hanging on to heat Florida 75-74 Wednesday night in the wonwn's NIT title garnr. 
Florida. whid1 scon\d tht1 ).{amc·s !imd 11 points after trailing 75-63 with 2::3:3 ldt. missed two shols in the dosing sec­onds that could havn won it. Wisconsin nneded a dramatic rebound from fhsh­man center Nina Smith wilh three sec­onds left to ser.ure the vir.tory. 
The Badgers had the rc1bid support of 
13.006 screaming fans. the fourth-largPst crowd in S('hnol historv and spcond­lurgr·st in the tour-· nev's histnrv. 
two frep throws. Bell rnadn onn frec throw with 23 seconds lo['t, ,rnd Florida got the ball back on another Wisr,onsin turnover. 
But Washington misscd a jumprr with six secouds \p,ft and Tamara Stocks missed a putbur.k attempt. Smith foro­ciously ripped the f'inal rebound away from two Lady Gators with thrnn seconds to play. 
Badgers coach .lune Albright knelt with her hands claspr.d in prny<w on the side­line as time expired, and hrr players mobbed each other at midcourt. Smith f'inished with 16 points. and Slomski added 14. 
Wisconsin r:elebrated tht\ titl1' with hugs and tP-ars twfore cutting down th_P nct. Tlw Badgors' season onded in tri­umph just two games after Albright gave onP-game suspensions to seven players for an alcohol-related incident on cam­
pus. 
Naomi Mobley had 19 points and 13 rebounds f'or Florida, whilr Tiffany Travis added 18 points. Tamura Stocks had 12 points and 11 rnbounds, while Brandi McCain. Florida's f'ornwr All-J\meric,tn guard who missed most of the sca1rnn 
\\'isronsin. which lost the \VNIT final to Arkansas last vt•ar. made a 15-o· run spanning halftinw and appParrd to bP cruis­ing with a 12-point Jpad \.Viih four minutes to play. 
Bul Florida. using a prPssing dPfonsP 1tnd calling timeouts after almost everv baskot in the final minutrs. !'.UL Wisconsin's big lead 
to 75-71 on Tombi Bell's layup with 1:09 to play. 
Jessie Stomski dou­ble-dribbled for thc Badgers. and Tonya Washington hit a jumper to cut Wisconsin's lead to four points with 44 ser.onds lPft. Aftrr KPlley Paulus misse.d 

with a brok<'n lrg. was hrld sc:orrdess. 
Moorn. a sophomorP who was named tournanwnt. MVP. scored 11 points dur­ing the first-half nm. including tlm~c ron­SI\CUtive thren-point plays. 
Thn Badgors wcro at homn in all five rounds of the tournanwnt this season. whiln Florida played host in just one round ol' thn tournanH1nt lwcausr its honw gym was b0ing usrd for thn SEC gymnastics championships. 



Thursday, March 50, 2000 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
page 23 

. l 
l ' 
. ' 
l
. 
j 
l 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 30, 2000 
NHL 
Red Wings crush Canucks, trail Blues for division title 
Associated Press 
Sergei Fedorov got his 300th goal ancl Detroit scorPd four times in the third period as tlw Red Wings dampened the Vancouver Canucks' playoff' chances with a 6-~ victory WednPsday night 
Steve Duchesne had two goals for the Hf'd Wings. who ,tr(\ chasing St. Louis for first place in the Central Division and \Nestern ConfPrrncP. DPtroit. which has won four straight and is 5-1-1 in its last seven. plays at St Louis on Satt1rdav. 
Detroit trails tlu; BluPs. who lost at home to Toronto. by just one point 
Tr1e loss snapprd a two-game winning streak for Vancouver. 5-1 in six contPsts-. The Canucks bPgan Wednesday two points out of the final Western playoff spot with only f'ivr games rPmaining. 
Vanrouver took a 3-2 lead on third-period goals from Marty Baron and BrPndan Morrison before Detroit rallied. 
Todd Gill tied it by pushing a nice centering pass from Kirk Maltby past goaliP Felix Potvin at 8:09. 
Kris Draper put Dr,troit ahead by def1ecting DuC'hesne's shot behind Potvin 2:26 later. and Stacy Roest added an insurance goal at 15:21 when he glovAd down Fedorov's rebound and fired it into the net. 
Duchesne scored into an empty net with 1 :02 remaining. 
Chris Osgood made 19 saves for Detroit. Potvin stopped 26 shots. 
Detroit playr~ the third period without captain Steve Yzerman, held out as a precaution after a second-period leg injury. 
Red Wings forward Tomas Holmstrom missed the final two periods after he was hit in the face with an Yzerman shot in the first. He suffered a cut lip and left the arena for dental work. 
Ylorrison broke a 2-2 tie 4:13 into the third when he r,oiwertr,d a pass from Andrew Cassels. Morrison has seven points in as many games sincP the Canurks acquired him March 14 in the trade that sent Alexander Mogilny to New forsey. 
Baron wiped out a 2-1 Detroit lead 1 18 earlier when his shot from the top or the left circle got through traf1ic and past Osgood. 
Vancouver scored just 1:11 into the gamr after Mark J\fossier won a left circ.111 far,r,off bark to Marcus Naslund, who blasted a shot over Osgood's left shoulder. 
Ff'dorov's 300th goal tird it on a power play 2:59 into tlw sec­ond when he ronnirlt'.d a short pass from Brendan Shanahan in f'ront of' the net. 
The Red Wings took a 2-1 lead at 7:5!'3 of thP sPC.ond when Shanahan made n long drop near tlrn Canucks' line to Murphy, who shot lhP puck through Potvin's legs. 
Avalanche 3 , Oilers 2 
Eric Messirr scored his first goal in 14 ganrns and Jor Sakic nxtended his point streak to a earner-high 14 games with a pair of assists as the Colorado Avalanche beat the Edmonton Oliers 3-2 Wednesday night. 
The first-plau Avalan('he moved six points alrnad of the Oilers in the Northwest Division. 
Bay Bourque got his seventh goal since being acquired from Boston and Alex Tanguay a,dded a goal in his first ganrn after missing six with a strained neck for Colorado, 10-2-1 in March. 
Joe Sakic has 16 goals and 11 assisl'> in his last 14 games. 
Doug Weight had a goal and an assist and Alexander Selivanov got his second goal in as many games for the Oilers. 3­3-0 in six games. Tommy Salo stopped 17 shots before being replaced by Bill Ranford at the start of the third period. 
Edmonton appeared to have the division race in control on reb. 29 when the Oilers built a six-point lead. Since then. the Oilers are 4-10-1 while the Avalanche have gone 10-2-1. 
Although outshot 10-9. tlrn Oilers dominated play in thA opening period. but trailed 1-0. Edmonton failed to convert two quality scoring chances.· first when Patrick Roy. who had 20 saves in recording his 442 win. smothered a shot off a faceoff by Ryan Smyth midway through the period and then when he made a stick save on Weight on a 3­on-2 break. 
Bourque got his 17th goal with 

ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS! 
Interested in the 
Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships? 
Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will discuss the scholarships and inform you of deadline dates and the Fall application process on 
Monday, April 3, 2000 
6:00 p.m. 101 Law School 
If you are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of informa­tion may be obtained in 102-8 O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 
two seconds left in the period and Colorado on its second power play. Sakic spt up tlw play with a pass just inside the blue line a11d Bourque dfl!lected a slap shot ofT Edmonton ldt wing Ethan Mornau and past a diving Salo. 
Tlw Avalanclw nxlnncled its ]Pad to 3-0 in tlw second period on goals by !\.frssier and Tanguay. Mrssier SPnt a blast over Salo's right shouldPr f'rom the lnll point at (d:~. 
Sakic set up T,inguay·s I Sth goal al 16:58. l\f'tf'r having !hf' puck poked away. Sakic skatPd it down and f'ed 'l'ilnguay with a ,-ross-icf' pass to tlw lower lei'! circl1'. Tanguay rammt\d the puck into an opnn net. 
Two third-pNiod goals on thf' pow11r play got tho (Ji)ers within 3-2. Selivanov converted a pass from WeighI al (>:21 then WPighl s11nt a wrist shot past Hoy's glove at I 0:23. 
Maple Leafs 3, Blues 2 
Jonas Hoglund and Stevn Thomas 11ach had a goal and an assist and Mats Sundin set up throe goals Wednesday night as the Toronto Maple Leaf's ended the St. Louis Blues' dominance over Canadian learns with a 3-2 victorv. 
The· loss was Lhe first for the Blues this St!ason against a t(11m1 from Canada 113-1-31. No U.S. based tm1m has gone undefeated in a season against Canadian teams. 
Maple Leaf's goali11 Curtis Joseph made 34 saves to pre­servn llrn victory and snap the Blues· six-game unbeaten streak. Toronto scored three times on just l (1 shots against Homan Turck. 
Craig Conroy and Jochen Jlncht scored for the BluPs. who lead Detroit by just one point for the NIIL's best rPc:ord. The teams meet •Saturday at St. Louis. · 
Cory Cross ·scored the other goal f'or the Maple Leaf's. Thomas broke a 2-2 lifl with 
his 22nd goal at 5:57 of the third period. Sundin started tfw play by stealing the puek from d1d'nnseman Chris Pronger at the point. Ile dumped it into thti corner to lloglund, who cen­tered in front and Thomas tipped it home. 
St. Louis had allowed only four goals in five games. 
Cross gqt Toronto on the board just 1 :2:i in with his fourth goal. Sundin shot tho pw~k into the St. Louis zone then chased down his owri rebound along the right boards. When tlw Blues r.onvPrged on Sundin, he cen tcn,d to Cross. who beat Turrk for a 1-0 lead. 
After Conroy tied it at !i:S(i with his 12th goal. Iloglund gav1\ the Maple Leafs the lead again 
2:28 into the second with a power-play goal that banked in off Pronger. St. Louis had killrd 66 or 68 power plays bd'orf' llnglund's goal. his 28th. 
IIPi:ht tied it 2-2 with a pov.er­play goal of' his own at 4:58 of' Urn period. lifting his own rnbound ov1H Josnph l'or his 10th goal. 


Canadiens 4 , Bruins 3 
Sergei Zholtok scored th11 win­ning goal with 15 seconds lel't Wednesday night, lifting the Montreal Canadir,ns to a 4-3 vic­tory over the Boston Bruins and back into eighth place in tho Eastern Conference. 
Zholtok. who added an assist. scored his team-leading 2!'3th goal when his wrist shot beat Hob Tallas. Benoit Brunet also had a goal and an assist for Montreal, which scored thrne straight timr.s after falling bnhind 2-0 in the first period. 
Sheldon Souray and Francis Bouillon also scored singles for the Canadiens. who got two assists each from Oleg Petrov and Patrice Brisebois. 
Montreal has 78 points. ono better than Buffalo and two bet­ter than Carolina. The Sabre~. with six games left. have a game in hand on both teams in the race for the final Eastern Conference playoff spot. 
Kyle Mc:Lan,n's goal midway in the third tiPd it 3-3 b11f'orn Zholtok's heroirs. Mike Knubln and Eric Nickulas also scored for Boston, and Joe Thornton had two assists. 
Knuble opc-ned the scoring midway through tlw first after l'.J. Axelsson's pass from bPhind thP rwt. Nickulas madP it 2-0 less than thrPe minutes Iatrr. but Montreal sr.orrd twic'P in the sPcond. 
llrunPt poked in a rebound with Montn~al on a powrr play at 8:05 brt'orc Souray·s wrist shot brat a S('l"Pened Tallas at 1(,:51. Bouillon's pow<1r-play goal at 5:4:3. which ddlrrtPd off Boston drfrnsf'man Brandon Smith. gave th11 Canadirns a brid !Pad. MrLan•n scorrcl two minutPs latrr. 
Montn,al goalin Jrl'f llack<'tt 
madf' 21 saves. including one on Brian Holston·s breakaway latt· in the third. " 
Coyotes 3 , Thrashers 2 
Dallas Drakr knorkrd in a rebound with 7:21 n~maining Wr.dnesday night as tlrn Phoenix Coyotos ended a srven-gamr losing streak with a :1-2 victory over the /\tlanta Thrashnrs. 
Thr. expansion ThrashPrs. who lost their l'ourth straight. are winlnss at home in 17 gamrs (0-15-2). 
Drakr·s 13th goal rnnw with Phoenix captain Krith Tkachuk in thn penalty box for high-stick­ing Johan Garpenlov. Playing his first game since serving a two­game suspension for high-stick­ing Colorado's Aaron Miller, Tkachuk hit Garpenlov out of frustration af'trr th<' /\tlanta for­ward fell on him and stolP the puck. 
With play stoppPd, Tkachuk was looking toward thP Phornix net and standing at tho Atlanta bill(~ line when Thrashers goalie Damian Hhodr;,s charged from behind and shoved him to the icr. 










LEWIS HALL 
4th Annual * 
with music by Doc Brown 

Live Entertainment! Food! 
Thursday, March 30, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Page 25 
CAMPUS MINISTRY·· 
Calendar of Events 
Senior Retreat #2 (Mar. 31 · Apr.I} Sign-Op 
Deadline to sign-up is March 30 103 Hesburgh Library For information, call Clare Sullivan at 631-3389 
Retreat for Gay and Lesbian Undergraduates and 
Friends (Mar. 31-Apr. 1) Deadline for sign-up is March 30 112 Badin For information, call Fr. Tom doy!e, c.s.c. at 631-3391 Or Tami Schmitz at 631-3016 
"What's the Future of This Relationship?" (Apr. 9) Deadline for sign up is Thursday, April 6 112 Badin Hall or 103 Hesburgh Library A workshop for couples in a senous re'lationship who want to explore choices and decisions for the future. 
Freshmen Retreat #29 (April 7-8) Sign-Up Monday. March 6 through Monday, .April 3 103 Hesburgh Library Targeted Dorms: Carroll, Cavanaugh, Di!.lo'n, Farley, Fisher, Pangborn, Mornssey, Stanford, Welsh Family 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #60 Friday-Saturday, March 31-·April 2 Fatima Retreat Center 
No Greater Love -A Notre Dame day of prayer, rnu.sic and renewal Presentations by: Fr. Bill .Seetch, CSC, CJ1andra Johnson, Fr, Rick Gribble, CSC,John antfSylvia Dillon, Annie Cahill. Fe Peter Rocca, CSC, Heather Rakoczy, Colleen Knight Santoni and others. 
Jubilee 2000 Tuesday-Saturday, March 28•April 1 Conference on ·campaign for Debt Relief" 
Senior Retreat #3 (April 14-15) Sign Up Monday-Friday, April 3-7 103 Hesburgh library 
Campus Bible Study Tuesday, March 28, 7;00 p.m, Badin Hall Chapel 
Confirmation -Session #11 Tuesday, April 4, 7:00 -8 :30 p.m. Siegfried Hall Chapel Everything Else You Wanted To Know About the Church But Never Asked A conversation with Bishop Daniel Jenky, c.s.c 
Graduate Student Bible Study Group Wednesday, March 29, 8;00 p.m. Wilson Commons 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer Wednesday. March 29. 10:00-10:30 p.m. Walsh Hall Chapel 
Fourth Sunday of Lent 
Weekend Presiders Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, April :l. Mass 
5:00 p.m. Most Rev. Rodriguez Maradiaga, S.D.B Archbishop of Tegucigalpa, Honduras Sunday, April 2 Maas 
10:00 a.m. 
Rev. Richard V, Warner, C.S.C 
11:45 a,m. Rev. John A. Herman, C.S.C. 
Where's the Love?  
by Frank Santoni  ~  
I often find myself thanking God: for a new day, for the sun­shine (or more often, for the rain), for my family, for my friendships. I thank God for my wife's good health during our pregnancy. I  C  
thank God for my mom's recovery from lung cancer. I thank God,  
too, for the opportunity to live and work in an energizing communi­ ~  
ty like the one I have found at Notre Dame. I thank God for my  
dogs, for my home, for Troy Murphy. The list could go on and on,  
and usually does. God gives us countless reasons to be grateful  ~  
everyday and, as the familiar response from mass goes, we are right  
to give God thanks...and praise.  ~  
Praise. Praise? What about praise? It's clear how we give God  
thanks, but how do we give God praise? The words "praise" and "thanks" are not synonyms. While we thank God for things, we do  t,  
not praise God for anything. We just praise God, period.  
Consider this. What if God wasn't a God that answered  ~ 
prayers? Would that make God any less God? Or what if we  
couldn't easily recount the significant points in our lives at which  
God blessed us beyond expectation? Would God, then, cease to be as  ~  
worthy of our adoration? Or what if during our moments of greatest  
need, God hadn't eased our hearts in a moment of divine peace or  
embraced us through the arms of a loved one? Would we worship  ~  
God any less heartily? In other words, do we ever praise God simply  
for being, well...God?  
See, there's a big difference between praising God and thank­ ~  
ing God. You may think I'm getting picky with my terminology, but  
I think the distinction runs to the heart of our relationship with God.  ~  
Our thankfulness is a natural response to recognizing God's finger­ 
print on our daily lives. Our praise, on the other hand, is our heart's cry in reaction to God's unconditional, unmerited love for each of us.  C  
To praise God is to stand in awe of God, acknowledging that we are  
incapable, through our words or actions, of increasing or diminish­ 
ing the love and mercy God has already bestowed upon us.  ~  
If you have read this far, you may be willing to take yet anoth­ 
er step toward deepening your understanding of just how we can  ~  
praise God in our daily lives. This Saturday, Campus Ministry again  
will be sponsoring "No Greater Love ... a Notre Dame day of prayer, music and renewal." No Greater Love is a day of praise. The day's activities will offer plenty of ways to lift up our praise to God  • •  
through prayer, music and sharing. Frs. Jim Lies, CSC and Bill Wack,  •  
CSC will lead us through the day with personal stories and dynami,c  
preaching. Paul Hillebrand, a renowned composer and musician  
from Arizona, with the help of the Notre Dame Celebration Choir  
will lead us in music and worship. Students will share honestly  
about their own faith journeys through talks, songs, drama and in  
small discussion groups. We've invited some of our community's  
most exciting professors and rectors to share about their faith in  
small group workshops on a wide variety of topics.  
No Greater Love is designed for you to be able to come and go  
as you please. The day will get underway at South Dining Hall at  
10:00 a.m. If you come in the morning, I can almost guarantee you  
will want to stay the whole day. Its fresh format has elements that  
appeal to everyone, so invite your friends. The sacrament of  
Reconciliation will be offered in the afternoon and the closing mass  
wil1 begin at 4:30 p.m. Check out the advertisement tomorrow in the  
Observer to get more details on the schedule.  
God certainly deserves both our thanks and praise. This  
Saturday we are presented with an awesome opportunity to do both  
in new and exciting ways. Take this invitation and pass it on to a  
friend. Together, we can raise our voices in songs and prayers of  
praise because there exists no greater love than the love that God has  

shown us through Jesus Christ, our Lord. 
Scripture Readings for This Coming Sunday 
-
1st Reading 2 Chr 36: 14-16, 19-23 

(Z\MPUS
2nd Reading Eph 2: 4-10 
tv,INISTRY
Gospel Jn 3: 14-21 

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 30, 2000 
Acceptable sports dealings still only in dream world 
SomP. proplc dr1>am about b('Pr doesn't n•quirn a credit unil'orm and play !'or himsC'lf. titln and where tlrn Cubs. BPcl Lioning. fame and l'ortun0. Others card. ! dream of a world whrrn the Sox. ClippPrs. Snahawks und I d r<\am of watching Super dream about love and surccss. l drna111 of' a. fnw agn11cy-h!ss mascots, tho reforoes, thn what1•vnr tnam Dan Marino is Bowls being play<•d in Buffalo 
I drPam about sports: not world cnudrns and Uw fans stop on artuallv vvin titles. and Grn()fl Bav. what spurts arc. but whal th,~y I dream of IL world whcrn Lhc thinking that they are the rca· I drnam ·or u world wlwrn I dream ol' ,{ world vvith only rmt!d hP. only "early (~nt.rants" lo thr son p<'opln ptlid to watch the Liltlo Lcagun is played. nm and woodrn bats. ratchPr·s masks 
I drram drafts arP players that wrrP ganw. watc:lwd solrly that look likP rntdwr's masks or a world kirked l/Ul or col!ogP. wlwrn l drPam ora "/ dream qf' a world by ki<ls. I drram inslnad of goalie masks and wlwr,, des• thr. NCAA !'arc's morP-about llw world wlwrP of' a world pant IPgs are pu!lnd up to thP
where the best 64 teams 
ignau~d hit· well-being of' its athlrtcs than it boxing is lrs.s wlwrCT athlotcs kncc.
get ;nvited to the dance,
trrs ceas1\ did about the WPll-b,~ing of ils 1'1lkn than still smill' likn I drnam ol' a world wlwrP to rxist. porkPtbook and a world wlrnrP wrPstling. the best 16 teams l.ittle Lcagunrs. playrrs sp1\nd lnss limn worry­ag1mts and illegal contributing I dnia,m of a I drnam of' a ing about contracts and nncl
V.h('l'P r:ompete in a collP-ge
intra­boosters don ·t exist. world whom world wlrnrn all zonn danc<'s and morn time
fooll)(lll tournament, and
lcagur play I dream of a world without more than two playrrs clrnw about winning and being a roln is suffi­Kim Dunbar. slPfJS is travel­the NBA and .'VHL gum instead of model. cirnt. and I drnam of' a world whr.rc the ing. lhc1 striko tobacco. onlv hit 1drnam ol' a world without
tournaments don't last as 
whPrr best fi4 teams get invited to the zono is prople on tl1e Latrcll Sprenwoll. without Hae
long as the season." 
sports arP dant:o, the best 16 teams com­mark,id bv tlrn rourt and don't Caruth, without. Dnnnis p\ayrd on petP in a colleg<' l'oolball tour-numbers ;rnd cu rs,' at fans. Hodrnan. without Isaiah Hiclrr. grass. 1rnnwnt. and tbc NBJ\ and NIIL Lim knees and I dream of a l drcam ol' a world where my 
I dream tournamrnts don't last as long Mich1wl .Jordan gets ca]kd for world whern Urn Olympics hap­y.oungPr sist.nr has thn sam<' or a world as tlw snason. t.lw samf' /'ou Is as Brvon prn rvnry four months insl<!ad opportunities and gar,wrs thn wherr Kurt Warner starts in I dream of' a world when' tlw llussnll. • or l'ou r years. sanrn amount of' rnspnct as if' r.vrrv citv and l\lbPrt lkllc livrs Orange Bowl is simply the I dn~am of a world whP-rc I dream or a world whero shn was my youngnr brothrr. in c~ilc. • Orange Bowl. not th(~ Fnd Ex somnon1' who hits .3'.iO gets hard work rathrr than gnnetics I dream of a world wlrnrr tlw 
l drnam of a world where Tropirnna Exxon Nike Orangn paid as much as somno1w who detllrmincs if' you can succrrd. ganrn is still rnnsider<'d a luxurv boxrs are reserved for Bowl. hit.s 50 honwruns, whf•rc tlw only steroids am iron ganw, playrd not for f'ortunP or old people and young cliildren I dream of' a world where all cvcryonn knows the numes of platns and the only pPrsonal f'amP. but l'or tlw lovC' ol' th!' who r.an't hand!P the inclcnwnt sports arf\ playrd with the pas­offensive lineman and whr.rc trainMs arc your pnrcnts. gamn. wrathcr. whrrc corporate sion and integrity of ultimatn fklding and man-to•man I dream of n world fillod with seats cost more and are farther Frisber with players lighting to dofonsc are used as criteria to Camden Yards and Wrigley The uiews expressed in this awav from the field than thr win. but <'.ailing their own fouls. giv<> away MVP trophins. FiPlds, lacking retractablf' column are those ofthe author r:he,{p seats. l dream of a world I dream of a world whem I Jrnam of a world where the roofs; a world wh!irn wind chill and not necessarily those of whr.rP buying a hot dog and a Bobby Knight has to put on a Pirnt«is and Expos can win a is tlrn only form of air-cundi-The Observer. 

ERASMUS BOOKS 
• u,ed buoks bought and sold
CORRECTION 
JS Car~gorles of B1.1t1ks -25.DOD Hardback and Paperback 
The names of two Bookstore 
tiooks in stock Basketball teams were omitted 
-Out-of-Print search service: $2.00 -A,1 praisa!s IMge and ,rn;ill
from Wednesday·s paper; 
OPEN NOON TO SIX
15. Likr \Vboa 
TUESDA'!' THROUGH SUNDAY
16. Malicious Prosecution 
1027 E. WAYNE SOUTH BEND, IN 46618 
MARK YOUR CALENDAR! 
The Ohsen·er regrets lhe 
(219) 232-8444 
error. 
Why? Because you need a new car! 
@¢'S\)_
A Salute to the Leaders of Tomorrow ­
y~
A.. Force ROTC Cadets 
·• r
If you are in the market for a 
great used vehicle,
College is a time for decision 
Choose to become a leader 
we have the answer for you! 
~ ENTERPRISE CAR SALE ~ 
Smart move. The whole 
~ MAY13 o_
concept of Air Force 
ROTC revolves around 
JOYCE CENTER PARKING LOT 
the cultivation of qualities that c0unt for leadership. 
Whether you're about to start college or have 
For pre-approval, visit our ·web site at 
already begun, it's time to make your decision, 
www.ndfcu.org 
now. 
or call loan-by-phone at 
Making Leaders for the Air Force and 

800/567-6328
Better Citizens for America 

Contact Captain Klubeck at 631-4676, or Klubeck.1@nd.edu 
Independent of the University 
NOTRE DAME SOFTBALL
01RE DAME BASER 
Fri. Mar. 31 vs. Connecticut 4 pm 
vs. Siena Heights 4:00pm 



ThursJay, March 30, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
for his SPnior season. 
Sophomore Gerome Sapp
Football 
continued from page 32 
rnissrd all of last sr.ason. is expectr,d to contend for a starting nod at cornerback. As a sophomore Williams stltrtcd cighL of the last 10 
gamr.s for tht' Irish. struggling at times but 
gaining 
somr, valu­abl<' <'XpPri­
('111".(\. 
D av i e also mrn­l ion c d Clif'l'nrd 
a n y awards.
"ft's the overall thing of 
We've got
confidence, not giving up 
to play
the big play, being able to and be produc­
blitz and play man 
tive."
coPerage. 
Though 
h C ' s 
lcarn<'d r r () m 
Bob Davie 
head football coach 
experi­
aggrrssivr because of this scheme," Davie said. "lt's the ovP-rall thing of confi­dence, not giving up the big play, being able to blitz and play man r,overag<'. We've got no excuses bcl".ause 1 think we ·vc got somt1 guys that r,an do that." 
NOTES: 
. 
Spring practice begins Saturday and concludes on April 29 with the annual Blue-Gold game in Notre Dame Stadium. 

. 
15 Irish players had surgAries in the off-season according to Davie. Only one player, Ryan Hoberts. a defensive end. is expected to miss some practicr, timo after back !:iurgi,ry. 

. 
Driver cut a wndon in his left pinky finger during a kitchen mishap reCfintly. arr.ording to Davie. He will be ready to practice on Saturday. 


W"EEKEND RACQUETBALL 
TOURNAMENT 
SATURDAY & SUNDAY APRIL 8 & APRIL 9 
JOYCE CENTER 
Men's & Women's Divisions T-Shirts to all Participants Bring Your 0-wn Racquet Balls Will be Provided 
Refreshments Will be Served 
Register in Advance at .-Z?--~~-=­Deadline: Wednesday, April S $B.00 Fee 
t 
Mix it up with 1200 others from the Class of 2000 TONIGHT and EVERY THURSDAY tor 
D0®@~1l[s@[ru@0@coLLeGe n1GHT 
SOUTH BEND'S BIGGEST PARTY 
$ 1 Co•,:ER (with college I.D., must be 21) V ~ and lots of other stuff for a buck, too. 
222 5. Michigan • South Bend • (219) 234-5200 Call the Heartland Concert & Event Line (219) 251-2568 More pictures online every week at www.ACEplaces.com/heartland 
OUT OF SEASON & TRIP SIC L.I.~.1 FfZIJ7A,y, VV\A~U-1 ~\ 
STRRI HT WA!j
FEATURING THE BIGGEST VlDEO SHO\A/ iN SOUTH BEND 
L-I~_; F<ZivA Y , Af7<ZI~ + 
NFL 
Owners vote to keep instant replay next year 
Associated Press 
PALM BEACH 
Instant replay is getting so popular 
among NFL owners that they may 
want to kPep it for good. 
Teams voted 28-3 to continue the 
system reinstated last season. Hr.play, 
which returned after a seven-year 
absence, will be exactly the same. 
Coaches will get two challenges prr 
game, and a replay official can stop 
play on his own for a challenge in the 
last two minutes of each half. 
The vote cmboldrned its propo­
nents, particularly among the coaches. 
"1\Jext year is the pivotal year," said Minnesota's Dennis Green. the new co-chairman of tlrn r;ompetition com­mittee. "If things go smoothly next season, it may be time to put it in on a perman<'nt basis." 
That may be bard. 
Hoplay. first institutP-d for the 1986 season, has always been renewed on a yearly basis, both from l 987 -91 and the past two years. That has meant it needs three-fourths of the teams, cur­rently 24 of 31. for approval. ff it goes in permanently,. it would take threo­fourths of the teams to repeal it, a step many may not be willing to take given some of the controversial calls last 
season. 
Cincinnati and Arizona also voted against it for the second straight year. Kansas City replaced the New York Jets as the third dissenter. 
"I luman nature doesn't change, and it's humans who run these machines," said Cincinnati's "1ike Brown. who has voted against replay every time it has been proposed. 
T 
"I voted for it last year to give a 
chance," said Kansas City's Lamar 
Hunt. another consistrnt anti-replay 
owner. "I didn't think it worked any 
better than it had before." 
· Commissioner Paul Tagliabue was 
noncommittal. 
"That doesn't matter to me today." 
he said when asked about making 
niplay permanent. "We made the right 
decision for this vear." 
Owners also passed a new rule man­d.ating fines for celebrations by two or more players. The vote on that was 30-0 with one abstention, the St. Louis Hams, whose playr.rs pionrernd the "boh and weave" celebration en route to their Super Bowl victory. 
"The coaches said across the board that players on their teams regarded it as provocative," Tagliabue said. "The coarhes felt it was very negative to spend time before a game trying to cool players down. They felt there was no need for it to be an issue in the locker room. 
In additional act.ion, the NFL voted to consolidate its Internet presence into NFL.corn. Internet revenue will be equally divided among the :{l teams. just as television revenues are, for the next two years, then the issue will be reviewed. 
"Many felt it was as important as in 1961. selling the TV rights as a nation­al package," Tagliabue said. "ThA dif­ference was that was permanent and this .was for two years." 
The NFL discussed scheduling for 2002, when Houston enters the NFL. Tagliabue said there was some discus­sion of adding one team in each con­ference to the playoffs, expanding it to 14 teams. 
JdTrrson. Jason Brckstrom, Alb(irl Poree. Shane• Walton and wrrlk-on Dwayne Francis as also possibly contributing at <·ornnrback to tlw ;WOO Irish. 
Drivc,r has mov!"d f'rom running back to fr('«' safdy 

ence not 
to promise imme.diate results. Davie brliev<'s th<' talent is iu pla.ce to improve his defense. 
"It's bigger than just say­ing we're going to line up in this defense and bP-more and Sfmior Justin Smith will chall<'nge Driver for the starting position. 
"It's bv far Urn most tal­ented, d·eep group of guys !in the secondary! we've had." Oavir said. "But just saying that will not win us 

Make no mistake, Chicago Steakhouse serves amazing steaks, pasta, salads and more that seem like they should be pricey (but aren't) and features a fun, casual atmosphere you don't have to get dressed up for (unless you want to). Great for groups, too. 
222 S. Michigan • South Bend • 219.234.5200 
www.accplaccs.co111/heanland 

page 28 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 30, 2000 
SOFTBALL 
Belles struggle at bat, fall to Comets in MIAA openers 
MEN'S 
FINALS GAME WA-,,CH 
After hitting a double. Murphy hopes to bring t!rnir olTensA 
By KARE~ SCHAFF 
attempted t.o st<'al third and togf'th0r. Sports Writer 
scored on a throwing (\fror by Spcybro(:ck wants to sec 
Olivet. morn ronn(~('.tion with Ow ball 
Thr Saint Mary's softball ··we madr rnntact. with tlrn and more play<'rs on basr\. tram played its first confer-ball. We just need to adjust to Last sr.ason. the Bnllns split frnce gamPs lhP fast pitching thP series with the Lady last night after the slow Jacknts. losing 5-4 and win­
"We made contact with
against OliV('t pitl:hing we ning 9-1. DPl'iance is rnrrently College and the ball. We just need to fared in previ­2 -1 2 on th c\ s n as on and is lost both ac{iust to the fast pitching ous games." said faced with a seven ganw los­games. 6-1 coach Jof' ing streak.
after the slow pitching 
we faced in previous 
Sophomore Tht> Belles look solid this vear and last Kristin games. gave up seven or night should not be an indica­Martin Olivrt's runs on tor to what thr rnst of thP sna­pitched tlw 1errors but iavr son will bn.
Joe Speybroeck
first gamr up no honrn runs "I f'erl very posilivP f'or tlw and junior head softball coach to tlw Comets. r P st o I' th c~ s n as on. " said Anne Senger "WP looknd Spnybronck. pitrhed thr sPcond. ready to play, but cPrtain days i\f'tpr f'a<'.ing Ddiancn at 
ThP Belles cu1-rPnt record is it's just not thorn." Speybroeck homn. Goshnn Collflgn will now 9-6 ovrrnll and 0-2 in the said. comr to Saint Mary's before MIAA. For Saturday's gamA against the Hellos go on tlw road f'or 
Olivet finished fourth in the Defiance Collegfl. Saint Mary's several conl'ornnc.n ga,rn~s. MIAA last season. one placr above Saint '.\1ary's. It was the Comets' first confrrcnrc game 

ATRIA SALO~
this season as-well. although 
289-5080
thev have an 11-5-1 record ove~all. 
1357 N. IRONWOOD DR 
Jessica DaVf~nport. Olivet's 
1 Ml LE f-ROM CAMPUS 
pitrher in thn first game, pitched fastrr than thr Belles' offense is used to. 
The speed of Davenport. the 
MODELS NEEDED FOR 
MIAA's 1999 most valuablP 
SHORT HAIR CUTS
player. threw· off Saint Mary's hitting. 
WOMEN/MEN
··we need to get our timing 
FOR TRAINING CLASSES
dovvn. We just weren't hit­ting. "sophomore Katy Hay said. 
MUST MENTION THIS AD
The Bcllrs came awav with one hit from frr.shma1{ right 
JUST $10.00 
fielder Katin Murphy in the first. inning of lhn first g-anrn 

NELLIE WILLIAMSnhe Observer 
Infielder Rachel Deer hits against Concorida Monday. Belles hitting fell short again Wednesday against the Comets. 
Tbupsdoys ol"e students night. 5tuJents Peceive 25% off meal p•ice witl. '.fOUP sfuJent I.D. 

Michiana:'s. most unique Jininq 4Utpa•i.enco Lo.cot~d in tl.e b.-,.,..11 at tLe Hisfo.-i<'.: JOO Cenfe• in Misl.awalco (219) 257-1792 www.JOOcenter.com 
Sponsored by the Student Activities .Office 
Thursday, March 30, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 29 
Carroll 
continued from page 32 
Pmphasiw." 
N01w of tlw NiLtanv Lions w1111ld rvrr gur.ss that· Carroll wasn't always known for his ball. 
"!\fall's worh'd vPry hard." I lolH•rtv said. "I It\ wants to bo a VPry.good playPr. It botlwrs him lo mak1• misLakPs, which I lik1·. ill''II g1•t bPttPr and bPttl'r lwrnusP lw ·11 work at it.. OtH' thing that pPoplP r<\rngnizP is his shooting. but I think dPl'Pn­sivl'ly lrn's bP1\n wry good." 
Tlw lirst-v1'ar startPr is not .tl'rni<l to hit tlw 11oor for thr sakt· ol' Llw Lr•,m1 Carroll divt\S J"or PVl\r\ lo11s1• ball. and cm­a lf'S rrn;rr• than a J'nw loose balls by wreaking havoc on oppone•nts. Early in NotrP l>anw·s win ovPr l'Pnn Statr, lw was f"orrPd lo takn a snat on tlw lwnrh dul' Lo a bloodv kne~r. rausPd by diving l'or ·loosP balls. 
Just bPcausr Carroll has round('(I out his hardwood ganw do1•sn 't nwan lw's f"or­sakr•n his rolP as a s<·orr•r. 
Tlw Irish l'n•qtwntly turn Lo him wlwn in newel of a thrf'I'. and his (i2 lrPvs this sr.ason rnnk J'ourth in tiw Irish n'cord books. \Vlwn Carroll get-; into a groove'. rans l'an virtually ('() ll nL o11 th P b a II ra II i11 g through tlw hoop. Wlwtlwr it's a long-disl1rncP prayer, a pull­up jumpPr or a late-gamf' l'ree throw. tl11•rc's a roll to his shots that stands l'irmly in favor ol"NotrP Danw. 
"Matt's had a g-n'at year." Do l1r• rty said. ··II<'· s a grPat sh1iot1•r. ,\nr.l I !hink whPn you·vr> got g11ys that can shoot 

. JOHN DAILYfThe Observer Freshman guard Matt Carroll celebrates with forwards Harold Swanagan (far left.) and David Graves. Against Penn State Wednesday night, Carroll had a solid defensive perfor­mance, finishing with four steals as well as six of eight free throws. 
the ball. that puts a lot of pres-Irish onc:P-former couch John sure on thro dr-fonsP-." MacLcod announc1>.d his rcsig-
Carroll, who dreams or win-nation. ning an NCAA Championship, "Of course [I questioned it], will have a little added motiva-just br.cause once he left, I lion in tonight's season finale didn't know who they were against Wake Forest. The only going to bring in," Carroll said. two-time PPnnsy\vania state "So I startrd thinking, should I player ol' the year nirnrly go somewhere else? Should I signcd with Wak<' Fornst over start looking at other schools? Notre\ Dame:, and questiorwd I rnally didn't know what to his decision to sign with tlrn expPct until l met with Coach 
Holy Cross College is a small, close-knit, two-year 
HOLY
liberal arts college where you'll get the personal attention you need for success. We'll challenge you, 
CROSS 
too ... with an expanded curriculum that includes 
* 
a new Associate ofArts in Business Administration 
COLLEGE 
degree. And wait till you discover our campus life. 
Notre Dame, Indiana
We've spruced up the landscaping, added new sports and recreation facilities and created more on-campus P.O. Box 308 housing. Just recently, we broke ground on a new Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308 student apartment complex. Looking for the path to 219-239-8400 • Fax 219-233-7427 a brighter future? It starts right here at Holy Cross. www.hcc-nd.edu 
© 2000 HCC 
[Doherty] and he sat down with m1>. and my family, and we realized this is still the place for me." 
Irish fans are breathing a sigh of relief that Carroll wound up at Notre Dame and not at Wake Forest. Hopefully, his impact will prove the dif­ference bAtween bringing home an NIT banner and going home disappointed. 
The Notre Dame men's basketball team is due to arrive from New York on Friday at 
10:00 a.m. at the airport. 
Win or lose, staff, students and fans will be gathering between 
10:15 and 10:30 a.m. 
in front of the Joyce Center to greet the team upon their return. All are invited 

to attend. 
-'Never dour,c that a small group of thoughtful cltiuns 
·' 
Basketball 
continued from page 32 
games with nve of those victories coming in postseason play. According to Doherty it all goes back to the last two ganrns of the regular season. 
"We played well against Syracuse and then at Georgetown we stressed the importance of being the aggressor from the start and that has really hPlpnd us," Doherty said: "Siner that point we've played pretty good baskotball and we hope we can comP out and do the sat11(\ [tonight)." 
However if the Irish hope to bring a NIT championship banner back to the Joyce Center. they will have to knock off a talented Deacon squad. Wake Forest advancPd to the title game with a 62-:>9 over­time victory against North Carolina State in thr semifinals. 
"What stands out about Wake Forest is their physical play in the post," Doherty said. "They am good at chesting up when you turn to shout so you need to be strong and initiate the contact on offense or else you'll get banged off balance and won't make shots." 
Wake Forest's physical play is reason for Dohcrtv's concern about the officiating of tonight's champi­onship game. 
"It'll be interesting to see how the game is officiated," Doherty said. "If it's a very physical game and they [the refs] let it go, it will be to their liking and it'll be tough on Troy [Murphy] trying to srorn in the post. If it's called tighter we'll get to the foul line and that will open up the inside." 
Murphy, however. won't be 
intimidated by Wake Forest's phys­
ical play. After all, he's seen it 
before. 
"I don't think thPre is a more physical conference than the Big East." said Murphy who scored 18 points in Notre Darm~·s semifinal victory. "We'll be ready for it." 
Doherty will also have his playPrs ready to counter Wake Forest's aggressive man-to-man defense. He stressed the importance of' scoring in transition, but he may have to do without his starting point guard. Senior Jimmy Dillon sprained his left ankle in the sPcond half of Tuesday's game and may not be able to start. Doherty. hom'ver. is optimistic about junior Martin lngelsby filling in at tlw point. 
"We'll move on," DohPrtv said. 
"Martin started here for twii years 
and I'm ('()nf'idcnt that th<' othr.r 
guys will pick up the slack just like 
thev did in tlrn second half against 
Penn State." 
can change the world: indeed It's the onfu thing that ever has." 
-Margarer Mead 
Honoring WoMen 
*of* 
Wo+re l>aMe 
llU chance to give back someihina lo thoie who ha11e given 11s so much* 
11,e W'o!Yler,'s-Res-ouree Center u{(r the studen+ bodv to participate in honoring J/. woMen of Wo+re l>aMe 
Pleare sut,l\llit nol\llinationr for leMa(e r-tudentr, F,c11/1Y MeM~err, 
adr..inir-tra-torr, or ree--trerrer who vou feel are: ,,. asset +o the Hotre l)al'<le co1111111u11ity or who have f,ee:11 a great positive influence on your life,
*1he no1111i11a . ionr will 1,e judge,/ t>v a co11o11111ittee of l\llale an,/ fer<iale s+u,/ en+r a11t/ /acuity 11o1e1111t>err
*We will honor one wo11o11111 each ,/av in 1/le Of,rcrver April 17-10
* Please inclu<le in a t#lort 1>aragra11h:
* 
How your nominee has Ileen a positive asset to rhe Notre Dame communlt!I

* 
How 1/0Ur nominee has lnffuenced you In a positive manner


* Your name. re/ephone-number. and email address
* The full name of1/0Ur nominee
* l)ea,ltlne For nol"li11a+ions: Sunday, Abr1L2Jti
*Please ellilail your 1101111ina+ionr to: l!llfi..D..d.e.Ak+ruil,eol!!I 
or dr•1> M""l11atlor11 off ,t the WRC. 100 lafortunr Any question• pleasr email tilt WRC or ,all f-9028 
1lt.a.Jlk u..u. for your 1>artici1>a+ion! 
L___ 
page 30 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 30, 2000 
ERICSSON OPEN 
Agassi squeaks past Henman in tiebreaker 
6 but punr.hed an <~asy return 
Associated Press 
in to the net. I le Lhen shank1~cJ a forehand at 7-7 but Psr.aped and 
The ball floated to Andre won thP final three points. Agassi's backhand side, offering "I got a little lucky," Agassi him a fat target. said. "I knew he'd put pressure 
Tim l!ennrnn charged the nr.l on me. That'!i why he's so one last time. desperate to pr1is­good." surn a mistake, but bv now it In vvonwn·s play, top-SP<'rlPd was clear Agassi couldn··t bn rat­Martina llingis and No. 7 tled. fie calmlv vnnked his shot Monica Srdcs easilv advanced L~rosscourt ro;, it winner. then and will mr.ot in th~ sr.milinals punched the air with buth fists Thursday. llingis. the 1997 to celebrn.tP thP knockout. champion. eliminated Amanda 
With considernble cool and a Coctzr.r 6-3. 6-1. Sdcs, st~eking tittle luck. Agassi overr.ame four her third title at. Key Biscayn1\ match points in a sloppy but but hf'r first sint:r. 1 1)9 l, br.at thrilling tiebreaker Wednesday Amv Frazier 6-0. 6-3. ,\gassi's to Pdge llenman 7-5. J-6. 7-6 gru~ling virtory in hot. humid (l OJ in the quarterfinals of the weather was his ser.ond in as Ericsson Open. manv davs. I le said he folt l'ine 
''To vvin a match like that. vou aftPrwaril. although his right leg feel kind of proud." Agassi said. bothered him during the 2-hour. 
1-lenman. rushing to the net at 37•minute du11!. rwery opportunity, was onr, "ft wasn't an easy match," ho point from an upsl'l victory at 6-said. "It was a tight for both of 
5. 8-7. 9-8 and l0-9 in the us." tiebreaker. I le served once with Agassi. bidding for his fourth a match point and squandered Kev Biscayne title. will have a that r.hanre bv double-faulting well-deserved day off before into the bolton; of the nel. playing in the semifinals Friday 
"It wasn't thf' ideal time." against sixth-sPr.ded Gustavo Henman said. "But that's the Kuerten. who eliminiated way it goes." unseeded Wayne FP1Tcira 6-3. 
Agassi had a match point at 7-6-1. 
Boosktore Office: 631-6028 
TONIGHT 5:30 pm 
101 DEBARTOLO EVERTTEAMMUSTHAVEABEPBEIEIVTAllVE 

Bookstore Basketball 
Captain 's Meeting 
Attention Students, Faculty and Staff 
At its meeting on Thursday, March 23, 2000, the University Committee on Computing and Information Services (UCCIS) met and discussed the impact that a program named "Napster" is having on University computing resources. As many of you are aware, "Napster" is a computer program that acts as an intermediary between computer users who wish to find and trade music files. Use of the program has raised serious concerns about network system security, security of personal computers systems, computer resource (bandwidth) management, intellectual property and copyright violations at college campuses across the country, causing nearly two hundred universities to prohibit use of the "Napster" program on their systems. 
The UCCIS is concerned about these issues as well as the resultant cost to students, faculty and staff. Because conservative estimates suggest that between 25-40% of ResNet traffic is "Napster" use, the UCCIS has recommended that the Office of Information Technology immediately implement a moratorium on "Napster" and similar programs. Accordingly, and consistent with the policy. on Responsible Use of Information Technologies at Notre Dame, we have directed OIT to immediately implement measures to prevent usage of this type of software. 
The UCCIS believes that the moratorium is necessary so that core University academic and administrative computing needs can be met and so that an actual determination can be made of the impact of the use of "Napster" on campus. The UCCIS anticipates that the moratorium on the use of such programs could become permanent at a later date. 
Please know of our appreciation for your understanding and recognition of the need to appropriately provide for and protect the University's academic and administrative computing needs. 


~~ 
Dr. Jeffrey C. Kantor 
Dr. Carol C. Kaesebier ( ev.) Mark L. Poorman, C.S.C. Vice President and Associate Provost Vic.e President and General Counsel Vice President for Student Affairs 
I 
_ Please recycle The Observer .. 
c__________ __________-----ll 
II 



------------------------------------~------------------------------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
Thursday, March 30, 2000 The Observer . TODAY TOM KEELEY
FOURTH AND INCHES 
,... LEV£L. 01-J e. Pl!.OC.ll..fl'l<:,illJ~T(N,, o, l.11(.E "TI\E ~lC.\11E."­
OC.~..~itNf(f\~ 'tJORKS. ~ 
.sv R.f::, ,\\E IN1'£tNH C..O..Lt:. il-4ERC> VMl'<ltK, 
'w~E~~S ._ LE\/£L FIVE Ml<.Wi "T~£ A W~P 

BILL AMEND
Fox TROT 
m~r~oo,ru@oo 
~GER 
o' 
SWEETHE.ART, 
•·· \n 
LO 
I NEED THE 
Yeo.rs. 
CHECICBooK. 
~u'W~00° 
'iia@OO _ 
Ro<:,ER
Fox! 
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 
It's a rare person who always dreamed of consulting work. 
beam.1@nd.edu 
page 31 
JEFF BEAM 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
•-=+=+=+::+-:::-1 12 Post-accident question 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
49 Kind of law or order 50 !II-considered 51 'Wheel of Fortune" buy 52 Nitty Gritty Dirt Band hit, 1971 54 Football positions: Abbr. 55 Washington's _Stage 
56 Former heavyweight champ Jimmy 
57 Address component, these days 
58 Part of a 1997 telecommunica­tions merger 
59 Like a pomegranate 
DOWN 
1 Some pilgrims 
2 French satellite 
launcher 3 Perfecting 4 With fungi, they 
form lichens 5 Hawks 6 Much of 
Mongolia 
7 Letters in many black church names 
8 Noted French­born English writer 
9 Good looks? 10 Harper's Weekly artist 11 Make a pass at 
24 Cartel leader 25 They aren't done 28 Ex-Yankee 
Guidry 29 Actress Mazar 30 Satellite's job 31 Cracked open 32 Grammy winner 
Manchester 33 Assailed 34 Pleasure seeker 35 Alternative to a 
passing shot 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name 
Address 
City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 
46 "Tap" star 
47 Devious plan 40 Gate design 
49 Fed
41 Tale of a journey 50 Trojan War hero 
42 Fancy 44 TV producer 53 It's better than Marshall nothing 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95~ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Eric Oapton, Paul Reiser, War­ren Beatty, Celine Dion, Tracy Chap­man, M.C. Hammer 
Happy Birthday: You will do whatever is necessary to be unique in all that you do. This will be the year to make personal changes that will set you apart from the crowd. You will have a good eye and any improvements you make will be suc­cessful. You will have a positive influence on others. Your numbers: 10,16,22,25,34,42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You have to let go of the past if you wish to get out of the sentimental mood that's been hanging over your head. You need to re-evaluate your mo­tives and your goals. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): This is a great day to join groups of inter­est. You are likely to meet individu­als who can offer you both mental and physical stimulation. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will get notoriety, but it may be due to your exaggerated overview of a situation at work. Be careful not to color important issues, especially if it may damage someone's reputation. 00000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can make changes today that will enhance your personality as well as your appearance. Don't let others try to bully you into agreeing with them. 
000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Hidden assets will pay off. You are up for wins, rewards or gifts. Plan to have friends over for an evening of social­izing and entertainment. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Pas­sion is a must. Your partner will be 
Birthday Baby: From day one you will want to be guiding everyone you come in contact with. You are a high-spirited individual who will bend over backward to help a friend in need. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 
EUGENIA LAST 
affectionate, and a stronger bond can be created if you're attentive to his or her needs. You can make a solid commitment and plan for your 
future.000 
LIBRA (Sept 23-Oct. 22): You can land a good job if you go to inter­views today. Be careful not to exag­gerate too much. Attraction to clients or co-workers may pose a problem if you don't control your urges. 
00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Travel will bring you a surprising amount of information that, coupled with enthusiasm, will spark new and innovative ideas. You may run into someone who interests you romantically. 00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't be too quick to accept financial deals. You need to distance yourself or ask a friend for an objec­tive point of view. You will be happy with purchases for your home today. 
0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Entertainment or group activities will promote new love relationships. You mustn't go over your budget regardless of what your friends say. 
000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your career will be moving upward, and your excitement regarding your latest projects will show superiors how competitive and dedicated you are. Look for a promotion. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You should concentrate on enhancing your appeal. You have to loosen up a little bit and enjoy life a little more. Travel will bring you in contact with people from your past. 000 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Stand-up's payoff 6 Libreville's land 11 Jam ingredient? 14 Play_ in (influence) 15 Last in a series 16 Metallurgist's subject 17 Winter sounds 19 Computer amount, slangily 20 Court sport 21 "Play it again!" 22 It may be caught 
23 "Delaware Water Gap" painter 
24 Big belts 25 High time? 26 Line part Abbr. 27 Playwright 
Bogosian 
29 Sinker 30 Home health hazard 32 Candy known as ''The Freshmaker" 33 Mowgli's 
medium 36 Boot tip 37 Ancient Greek 
city-state 38 Zeal 39 Netanyahu, 
informally 40 "Holy cow!" 43 Element in 
Geiger counters 44 Game winner's cry 45 Joseph Conrad's "The Secret " 48 Consanguine folks 

Nowhere to run 
Oliliet defeated Saint Mary's twice Wednesday during the first conference games rfthe season. The Belles. 9-6 overall, are
PORTS 
currently winless in the MJA.,1. 
page 28 
O
THE 
page 32 BSERVER 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Title-starved Irish one win from NIT championship 
• Reconsidering importance of NIT, Doherty wants postseason title for the Irish 
By BRIAN KESSLER .A.ssisranr Spom Editor 
NEWYOBK 
Following Notre Dame's vic­tory over BYU last week, first­year head r,oach Matt Doherty hinted that bi> prnbably would have traded an NIT Championship for a first rnund loss in thP NCAA Tournament. 
Wednesday he changed his mind. 
'"After experiencing this tournament and the first-class manner in which it is run. I wouldn't," 0ohertv said at a press conference held at the Marriott i\1arquis in New York. "The exposure we·ve gotten on ESPN and the exposure our players have gotten in a tour­nament sPtting is invaluable for a young team." 
That young Notre Dame team [22-14) will play for the NIT Championship tonight when they take on Wake Forest (21-14) at 7 p.m. at Madison Square Garden. Penn State and North Carolina State tip off in the consolation game at 4:45 p.m. 
"It's kind of neat playing an ACC team IWakP Forest]." said Doherty who played in the ACC for North Carolina. "lt brings back some memories. but our players aren't old enough to remember those davs so I don't want to sound like the old coach living in the past. We want to create some new memories." 
A victory over the Deamon Deacons in tonight's title game would be a nice memory for Doherty in his first year at the 
helm. The Irish were runner­lot to do with their coach. who ups in the NIT in 1973 and has an impressive postseason 1992. but have never won a resume along with an NCAA postseason championship. Championship. 
Notre Dame is coming off an "As a coach you want your impressive 73-52 victory over players to get better and your Penn State in the semifinals, team to get better. but you also however, and seems to under­prepare for March," Doherty stand what it lakes to be a said. "That is something that champion. That probably has a has been instilled in me as a 

player at North Carolina and an assistant coach at Kansas. You hope you are peaking at the right time." 
Notre Dame is d,:finitely playing some of its best basket­ball of' the season. The Irish have won six of their last seven 
see BASKETBALL/page 29 
• Irish need guard Carroll's defensive skills to fend off Deamon Deacons 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associate Sporrs Editor 
NEW YOHK 
llis wid!' blue <'yns stn1tchcd open far 1)nough to catch evPry play on thn court. llis alert body bounced up and down in a dPl'Pnsive stance primed to stavr off an opponent's driw. llis arms waved back and forth. warn­ing thn opposition that any shot or pass would haw to get by him first. 
Prnn State didn't listen to any of the warning signs, attempting. instead. to lob the ball past Irish guard Matt Carroll into thr paint in Tursday's gamn against Notre Damn. But Carroll was rnady. IIn leapt high into the air, intnrcrpting th!' pass and batting it into his own hands. IIP then tossPd it down court to tl'ammate Martin lngelsby for a lay-up. 
Now the Nittany Lions wish they h{td managrd to avoid that lesson on how potrnt Carroll's defense can be. Carroll grabbed a carei:r­high four steals and added five defensive rebounds to assist the Irish in their 73-52 victory. 
"You look ·at Matt Carroll getting all those rebounds last night, and that's some­thing that we've had to bring out of' him as a coaching staff," NotrP Dame head coach Matt Doherty said. "He had five defensive rebounds which is something we 
see CARROLL/page 29 
FOOTBALL 
Davie concentrates on defense during spring practices 
end of last season became a doubt, is improving our defense," opponents. Against Stanford in it. ByTIM CASEY 
November Davie said at Wednesday's press the season finale, the Irish "I think at the end of the sea­Assistant Spom Editor 
to forget for 
conference. "At thr end of last allowr.d 472 total yards, includ­son we reallv had a dif'lir.ult time the Irish. season. we reallv bottomed out, ing 385 through the air. For the tackling," Davie added. "And Wll 
Visions of Stanford's Troy No won­for a lot of dil'for;mt reasons. \Ve year they allowed an average of had a dillicult time in our tech­Walters scorching the J\iotrn der Davie's had a lot of unl'ortunale things 27.6 points and 38'.l.7 yards per niques as far as just man-to-man Dame secondary for 183 yards. main objer.­happen, but the botlom line is at game. coverage techniques in thn sec­of Tennessee's Travis Henry tive enter­the end of the year we couldn't "We spent every second since ondary." rushing for 132 yards, of Boston ing the stop people and because of' that the end of the season looking at The secondary will be aided College quarterback Tim spring sea­we couldn't win football games." what we did scheme-wise. per­this year by the returns of Brock Hasselbeck throwing for 272 son is to In last season's winless son ncl-wise and techniquc­Williams and Tony Driver from yards and three scores still linger address his Davie November, the Irish defense wise," Davie said. "I would say suspensions. Williams, who in Bob Davie's mind. Instead of a defense. allowed over 30 points and 385 lthe problems] would be more of possible run at a bowl berth. the "Our No. 1 p1·iority, without a total yards to each of their four not what we did, but how we did see FOOTBALL/page 27 
Men's Golf ar Texas • Women's Crew 
,t.j·'1
at Kentucky '•,::--:::::/ Saturday, I p.rn. Women's Golf vs. Drake
SPORTS 
Friday Sunday
William & MaryATA Spring Invitational 
• • 
Track and Field vs. Ohio State • vs. Vanderbilt 
at Williamsburg, Va.
Saturday, 10 a.m. Sarurday, 3 p.m. Sunday, I p.m. 
Saturday and Sunday 
~ i
GLANCE 









