
Attention all boys 
Check out Scene's review ofPlay Station video _qames to find out what's hot and what's not. 
Scene . page12-13 


Finding a niche 
Columnist urges students to get involved in activities -even if they 're in the most unusual places. 
Viewpoint . page 1 O 


Wednesday 

AUGUST 30, 2000 


The Independent New!1paper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 7 
SIGNING AWAY YOUR FREE TIME 


HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Zahm, Sorin rectors ease 
into jobs 
Editor's Nole: This is the first of two stories about the new rectors and rectress on Notre Dame's campus. 
By NATE PHILLIPS 
News Writer 
Perhaps even more eager than the first year students to experi­ence the traditions and rigors of Notre Dame are the new "fresh­men" rectors. These rectors have the responsibility of maintaining order in the dorm and helping stu­dents spiritually and emotionally. 
Both Father Tom Bednar of Zahm Hall and Sean Seymore of Sorin Hall have accepted the chal­lenges of this job and enter their first year in their respective posi­tions. 
Unlike many of his colleagues, Seymore is not a Holy Cross priest. He will finish his graduate degree in Chemistry at Notre Dame this May. He attended the University of Tennessee for his undergraduate degree, and received his master's degree from Georgia Tech. 
Sevmore has been the assistant rector of the dorm for two VPars. ­and decided to take the job as rec­tor after the administration approached him concerning the opening. He is uncertain as to how long he is planning on remaining rector, considering he will gradu­ate this year. 
"I am just focused right now on taking Sorin into the 21st centu­ry," he said. "It seems like a nat­ural progression for me [to go 
see RECTORS/page 4 



Scholarship for ND students honors local bishop 
Wayne/South Bend, Notre Dame's Wayne/South Bend on May 1, 1985. ships are being funded by various 
By JENNIFER MORGAN home diocese. "Bishop D'Arcy is a most valued University benefactors and will be 
News Writer "l was very moved, completely sur­member of the Notre Dame family," given to Notre Dame students from 
prised and very honored," said said university President Father the Fort Wayne/South Bend diocese 
Students from the Fort D'Arcy. "This scholarship shows that Edward beginning in Wayne/South Bend diocese will soon the relationship between the office of Malloy the fall of 2001 begin to reap the benefits of a the bishop and the University of Notre in a "Bishop D'Arcy is a most valued on the basis of $250,000 scholarship fund estab­Dame is the best in the country." p r e s s nPed and
member of the Notre Dame f amity. 
lished by the 
Bishop D' Arey was born in Boston release. r e s o u r c e s University of Notre in 1932 to Irish immigrants. He stud­"As our As our bishop, he safeguards the available from Damr~ honoring ied in Brighton, Mass. at Saint John's bishop, union of this institution with the fund. Bishop John Seminarv, and was ordained to the he safe­"Notre Dame
its mother Church ... " 
D'Arcy. priesthood on reb. 2, 1957. In 1968, guards lives its life in The scholarship he received a doctorate in spiritual t h e this diocese, fund was estab­theology from the Angelicum in union of Father Malloy dPspite being lishnd this year to Home. On 1-<'eb. 14, 1975. he was t h i s an internation­
University President

mark the fifth ordained an auxiliary bishop of institu­al University," anniversary of D'Arcy Boston. In addition. he also worked at tion with said D'Arcy. "It Bishop o·Arcy's Saint John's Seminary as spiritual its mother Church, and as our friend, is a great consolation to me that this Episcopal ordina-director and professor of spiritual he both celebrates and exemplifies scholarship fund has been established tion and tlrn 15th anniversarv of his theology from 1968-1985 He was the joy of that union." to enable more students from this installation as bishop o·r Fort installed as the eighth bishop of Fort The Bishop John M. D'Arcy scholar-diocese to attend the University." 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, August 30, 2000 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Please w-rite 
Ille ... 

As the Viewpoint Editor, I have the honor, sometimes the pain, of reading all letters sent into Thti Obs1~n'er. These letters vary in content, but g,,nerally focus on the same issues every year. This early in the school year, I usually get an assortment of pre-foot­ball hype letters, dining hall anger and, of course, 
Lila Haughey
cornplainL5 about the sprin­kler system. Now, so far I have 

Viewpoint
received no such letters. 
Editor

Actually, I received one let­ter, with one sentence including an explicative, "For (*****'s sake, fix the sprinklers!" Since no om~ els11 will r.omment on the dysfunctional sprinklers. I will. I know other people are irritat­ed about the sprinkler system, have heard you as I walk to DnRartolo. 'Tm glad the sidewalks am being watered." As a senior, I have realized that the sprinkler systmn will never work correctly. In fact. I have gained an apprnciation for the wet sidewalks. I realize as I make my way to classes that even though I am not fully conscious at 9:30 
a.m. I should b1\ able to strategically maneuver around the grass so as not to get wet. 
Some ptrnplc see the required maneuvering as an annoyance. As a senior, I see it as another tal­ent the University is giving me for later use in lifo. I may not be able to get a job as a history major; but by golly, I will be able to dodge. Dodgeball was fun in elementary school, but dodge-sprinkler is better. When you hear the 
ll.O.T.C. department talking about how large our program is, they aren't kidding; they train the whole student body, indirectly, in army tech­niques. Besides being able to swerve, turn and tumble. the sprinkler system has another bonus -some people get wet. Usually, those caught under the spray on the way to DeBartolo are bicyclists. When the sprinkler rounds the bend, walkers flee quickly, but bicyclists are caught, unable to move, in the spray. Now, I like bicycles, however since I don't ride one around campus, they can bt' a bit irritating. How many people have you seen run over by people on wheels? N1md I say more? I imagine if you really wanted thn extra IO minutes to sleep in the morning, you could also skip your shower and refresh yourself on the way to class. This is something, I wouldn't do or recommend, but some really lazy guys might. 
Onto other topics missing l'rom the Viewpoint pagP. South Dining Hall is confusing and it has been taking freshmen awhile to get the hang of things. Some advice: ask an upperclassman if you have doubts and never stop moving in the middle of the isles. North is less confusing but can seem overly safe. There is a direction at the food stations; usually this is indicated by the posi­tion of the platr.s. Also, you don't have to wait in line for soup. General notes to all, do not nibble directly out of the cereal bins. it is just plain gross. Some personal advice for freshmen, if a large football player is walk(ng towards you in the dining hall and there is a chance of collision, make sum you move first. Generally they are big and really don't have anywhere to go in the nar­row isles. 
Football! Good luck to the players, we will sup­port all of you and we are all looking forward to the first game. 
Lila llaughey is the current Viewpoint Editor. She encourages you to write a letter to The Observer if you agree or disagree with any of her views. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Llura Rompf Laura Kdly Kelly Hager Graphics Kiffiin Turner Jose Cuellar 
Spores Production Noah Amsradcer Rachd Protzman Viewpoint Lab Tech Par Kelly Meg Kroener 
Th<-Ob,crvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) i, published Monday through Friday except dunng exam :md v:.1cacion p,crio,k The Obscrvc:r is a membc:-r of1he As,ociatcd Prcu. All reproduction righrs arc reserved. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Wednesday  Thursday  
. Event: Saint Mary's  . Pep Rally: 7 p.m.  
Activity Night; 7 -9 p.m.;  Dillion Pep Rally; South  
Angela Athletic Facility  Quad; Bands begin playing  
. Movie: "Happy  at 5:30 p.m.  
Gilmore"; 10 p.m.;  . Movie: "Gladiator";  
Lafortune  10:30 p.m.; DeBartolo 101;  
$2 admission  

Friday 
. 
Pep Rally: 7 p.m. Pep Rally; Joyce Center 

. 
Movie: "Gladiator"; 


10:30 p.m.; DeBartolo 101; $2 admission 
Saturday 

. 
Mass: Mass at Basillica immediately l'ollowing football game 

. 
Mass: Mass at Stepan Center 25 minutes after football game 

. 
Movie: "Gladiator"; 



10:30 p.m.; DeBartolo 101 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

University of New Mexico students hold vigil 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. you are vulnerable lo rape,·· she 
As the crowds slowly dispersed said. from hearing presidential candidate After the circle had broken, Silva­Al Gore speak. they passed a large Vanvelos said she was thrilled the circle of University of New Mexico vigil coincided with the ending of students holding candles outside, Gore's speech. although it was not singing and chanting against the planned that way. She said the com­violence of rape Monday night. munity and media was on campus 
More than 100 students partic­to see Gore and they had to go ipated in a candle light rape vigil through or around the circle, which that was put together at the last brought much exposure to their minute by concerned members of cause. the campus community. Their main "They saw the lights and won­concern was to speak out against dered why we were here," she said. the administration's lack of action Female and male students took
Alma Rosa Silva-Vanvelos, student following sexual attacks on campus. activist and member of Feminists part in speaking out against the vio­Christy Lewis, a student organiz­Liberating Our World, told students lence. Chris Chavez, a senior, said 
er. said she was there to raise in the circle to look at each other's he hoped the candlelight vigil would awareness about rape and UNM's faces and understand that each of bring awareness to their cause. limited response to campus safety. them is a potential rape victim. "I hope the administration sees 
"We are protesting UNM's not "No matter where you came from, this as a call to get help from them." 

UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERISTY 
No more scooters for students
Murder -suicide shocks campus 
PHOVO, UtahFAYETTEVILLE, Ark. 
Those holding their breath in anticipation of the fateful John Locke, comparative literature program director, decision about scooters on BYU campus can exhale. They and James Easton Kelly, a non-degree graduate student, can also be thankful that the scooters fold nicely anddied Monday from an apparent "murder-suicide" in 
have an easy-to-carry position. On Monday, the
Locke's office John A. White, University of Arkansas University Traffic Committee decided to ban scooters on
chancellor, said. Capt. Brad Bruns said witnesses heard three gunshots. Four empty casings were found, Bruns 
university property and classify them in the same catego­said, in the .38-caliber pistol found on the floor between 
ry as skateboards, roller skates and in-line skates, and the two bodies in the office. Rolinda Corbit, a junior, said 
Vice President Jan Scharman approved. The use of any she was in the hallway on the second floor and heard 
of these items on campus may result in a citation from three gunshots. She said she went into an office, shut the 
Provo City Court and a fine. The Traflic Committne found door and made a 911 call. Bruns said he heard one shot 
scooters to travel at speeds greater than the pedestrianafter he arrived. He said the first officers on the scene population on campus and have limited control to turn or did communicate with someone in the office, and the stop. The above factors, suggesting that scooters mayofficers talked to one person. "I heard a person say he create danger for other students on campus, were reallyneeded help and was hurt," Corbit said. She said the first 
only part of the final decision. According to the
officer on the scene "talked to the guy in the room." 
University Police Department. the university has sus­Bruns said he did not know the exact words of the con­tained damage to sidewalks, benches, railings and other
versation, but it was something to the effect that the per­son in the office was hurt. but not to come in. campus facilities by the use of such devices. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWcarhcr •fore-cast for da rime conditions and hi h rem eramres 
H L Wednesday ~ 86 70 Thursday ~ 89 68 Friday 80 64
~­Saturday ~-79 64 Sunday ~-79 62 
FRONTS:  
..........  ......... ...,..a-,,­ 
0 2000 AccuWealher, Inc. cow  WARM STATIONARY  
,,_.,,., ®© ...... High Low Showoro Rain T•1lorm1 Flurriff Snow let  Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy  

Atlanta 89 71 Las Vegas 84 69 Portland 78 56 Baltimore 79 67 Memphis 99 77 Sacramento 86 57 Boston 80 69 MIiwaukee 78 72 St. Louis 96 78



Q.~-~'9c6.f.Q{)~u 
Chicago 69
s_,. T·storms Ra,n Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 85 73 New York 80 Tampa 88 76 
vi. AM-ll>d Pros Gn,phica/\1•1 Houston 96 76 Philadelphia 81 70 Wash DC 78 70 

Wednesday, August 30, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 3 
Annabi offers bleak assessment of state of East Timor 




Associated Pres_s 
UNITED NATIONS 

Tlw UnitPd Nations warni>d Tu I's d av t b at 1· ,, 1· (' n t m 11 i ti a aLLHrks ·against pPat·l'kPnpers in 1:ast Timor appPar to bP a roordinatrd ,dTort lo under­mirw tlw tPrritorv·s transition to ind<'p<'nclt'n<'t' and discredit tlH· intp1·im U.N. administra­tion. 
:\ssistant. SPc1·Ptarv-(;l'll<'.ral 111• di .\ 1111 ab i to Irl • S ,, r u r ity Council mPrnb(•rs that thry should bP prt>part>d !'or a worst-rasp srPnario in v\'hid1 1111, militias may try to d11stabi­lizP liasl Timor Lhrough '"offpn­sivr> g1wrrilla-stylr\ opt•ralions" against civilians and L.N. pP,tc't'kPepPrs. 
I!is unu:rnally blt'ak briPfing r'a mn on tlw <' VP of th,• first annivPrsarv of' East Timor·s vol<\ for indPpPndPnc1' from lndonPsia. t.hr l'l'SUlts of whir.b sparkPd a W('Phlong-looting and killing rampag,, by pro­lnclo1wsian militias opposPd to ind('pcndt'nr.e. 
Tlw violPnrP 1'1Jd<'d after an :\ustralian-lf'd intPrvnntinn t'orn, Look con lrol and restored rnlm and the United Nations Transitional Administration. or UNTAET, began running thP tPJTilory. 
ltowevPr. in his briPfing. i\nnabi said attacks in thP last month by Pig-ht g-roups of pro­lndorwsian militias showed a new willingnnss by anti-inde­pendc>nc,i fon:1is lo exchange l'irP with U .N. Pf'.ac.rkrepf~rs. Two pnacr,kncpers havP bPen killed in rer,rnt Wf'nks. 
_ .....................................-;;;;;a;..........;;;;;;;;...............----------~UNTAET -not Indonesia -is res13onsible for what goes on inside East Timor. 
"Their lPvel of artivitv within East Timor is rPf!pctlve of a tlngroe of coordination and prPparation that has nol been Sf\('ll sn l'ar," Annabi said. 
On Tunsday, U.N. officials said pro-Indonesian militiaman and pnarekPepPrs exchanged gunfin' near East Timor's lrou­blf'd border. The U.N. has rcp<'atcdly complained that militia gangs us1: rnf'ugee camps in Indonesian-con­trol l,:d West Timor as bases for bord1:r incursions. Srcurity on th,) border has befln stepped up ahPad of WPdnesday's anniversarv celebrations. 
No one ~as injurnd in the rlash bntwccn a squad of ,\ustralian troops and two mili­tia mPmbcrs. peacf'kecping spokesman Col. Brynar Nymo said. 
.\nnabi said he belirwcd that the intent or the militias "is to ('ontinue a pattern of violenr,f' ,tgainst the r.ivilian population and UNTAET in order lo trv and undl)rminc tbe transition procnss. 
To countf'r the incrcusing violence. plans to reduce the numbPr or U.N. pear.ekeepers in r1:rtain spctors of East Timor have been shelved and battalions have been rede­ployed to bolster units that have come under fire. i\nnabi said. 
lie suggested that the Indonesian armed forr.es. implicated in the 1999 vio­lence. may have at least allowed the recent attacks to or,rur, noting that some militia members have been found with 
army uniforms and weapons. 
But Indonesia's U.N. Ambassador, Markarim Wibisono. rejer,ted suggestions that the mere presence of army uniforms among militia members implied army involvement, noting "such material can be easily acquired on the black market." 
While r,ondemning the recent attacks on U.N. personnel. Wibisono stressed that 
But several Security Council members said Indonesia was responsible for curbing the source of the violence -the militias who operate across the border in West Timor. 
The spokesman for the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees er,hoed that senti­ment Tuesday in Geneva. A "just and lasting solution to the refugee problem" depends on law and order being imposed in West Timor's sprawling refugee camps, said spokesman Kris Janowski. 
-. -----------------­
page 4 Thr Observrr . NEWS Wednesday, August 30, 2000 
ho1ws this will foslnr a mon• rninistr:v. 01wn Pnvironnwnt. BPcli,;tr tak('S his n•sponsi­
Rectors 

"Hclationships with ol11cr bilitiPs as a lloly Cross pricsL 
p1'op!P arP vpry important to v«-ry SPl'iouslv, bul al Lill'
continuecl from page I 

1111'," !w said. "I am W<'lcorn­saniP limn th<H:oughly Pnjoys ing i!lld inviting. and I think llio work that Im dews.
from t1ssista111 rl'rtor lo n•<·­

l il(' guys l hi n k I ha l I am "B,·ing a priPst is a grpat
tor I. I am rt•ally P.XritPd; 

s111nl'liody that tlt('Y ran talk '<\HY of Hl'(·ornpanying young
lhPrt' is quite• a hit ol' l'!'SfHlll­

to.·· pPoJJl" in l11nir spiritual
silii Iit V." 

SPymorP rPally apprPciatPs livPs." lw said. "I ps1wrially
Ill's.pill' tl11• J'ac·t that he• is 

and va Iu,·s Pnjoy tlw
1101 a pril'sl. SPymurP has a 

l lw t·om-pa sto1·a I
stri111g spiritual St'tlSI'. llt> 

m ll 11 i ( y aSjlf\!'l of'
holds hi-. spiritualit~· as hi'i "/ am glad to be here af
f'1'l'ii11g or workingl1iglir•sl p1·i11rily. illHI lwpPs 
S11ri11 11:ll! J;ahm and am excited to in tlw
h(• l'all l11•lp tlt1• lllPll 111 his 

and IS work u,f1h people !hat hal'e d o r 111
d11rm 1111 t!wir <.;piri!ual juur­(' X (' i t [' d with a 

lll',\. such a slron.CJ seuse (f
a 1>11 u t t lw group ol'
Hut \\hilP lw d0Ps11·1 sport 

r11ming amhition." "y t) ll 11 g
a 1, Ii it ( • r n 11 ii r. S" vll1 or r• •s 

\'PH I'. 1111'11.
\ i<'ws (1ll d11r111 111il11·agt>1111•111 

· "\\'c a rl' "I am
.in• in lilll' ,,iii, his ordai,wd Tom Bendar
(' ! (Is I' IV ('. X {' i l (' d
rnllPag,·s, inl'l11di11g tlw pari­Zahm rector
knit. an cl to br'
Pliiis poli!-y. 

P\'1'rvbodv working··,\.-., I S('<' it. paril'lals ar<· a 
k ll ; ' \\' s ,\i lh tlw
gr,•al lhing 1'1ir th<• stalT. Wt• Pv1•rvbmlv ('lsc•. Sorin is Ill\ guys as tlH,y 1,xprPss rl'l,·br.i­

:1rr• lirr•d h:,· tlw PIHi or th" 

lio;lll'. ;tnd it f'<'Pls good In tion and sut'foring. and I hop<'
dav .ind wP 1wt>d a brc•ak as 

!Jr• hr•rP,.. lw said that I can S<'l'\'P as n wilrwss
w,:11." h1• said. "It quiPts tlw 

/\lso PlllPring into a l'(Wtor of' (;11d's lov1\ .. and. uh. I amdorm clown. l'<'ia:-.:t•s c•v1•ry­
position is Fc11lwr Tom also c>.xcitP.rl about tlw
11111•. and lirrngs tlw da.v lo H 13.,cJnar ol' Zahm llall. Nmv to N1,braska garn<'." h(• added

dosf' ... 

tlw NotrP lh1m1• commuriiLy, with a laugh.
SP\'lllOl'P dPsrrill<'s himsPlf' 

l~<>dnar has s1wnt tlin past I 2 Thus f'ar. llt•dnar is
11~ li°ighl} nrnli\HINI and dri­y (' a r s im pr<:ssPd wi Lh Llw guys in\'r•n. II<• has 

working tlw hall, especially with thP
spt>11I rlo:-.f' 

".l\s I see it, paricwls are a i n numbnr or Sl'l'\'i\'t' prnjPt·ts
(o il lflllll"(f'I' 

schools and cominuHilv s1,rvicn out­
nl' II ('l'lllllr~ qreat thing jc1r the stajJ ite 
in Chill'. ings tlw dorm l1as sponso1·Prl.
in sr·ho11l 

ctre tired b.t/ the end <~l the I "The guys arP greaL Tlwy
and said hP 

clay and we need a break thought havP grnal dorm pridu, and
bord<•rs 011 

l hat I am vnry wc'lcoming. I gtwss · 
!wing a pPr­as well." 
h a d that is why Zahm has such a
f"p 1• l i011 isl. 

achieved grcal snnse of tradition," he
111' s1>ls his 

Sean Seymore my goals said.
goals high. 

down lfondar said his bPst quali­
Sorin rector
and always 

tlwn: lin ties are his listnning skillsaims at 
Chi IP I. I and ,rnergy.
J)('illg Lill' 

thought "I am passionat(• about
lwst at whal<'Vf'r lw is doing. 

that l\iolrP Dame would bn a lloly Cross and about tlw
"I am probably hard<'r on 

great placn fnr me lo knnp Univnrsity," h11 said. "l am
mysP!t' than anvo1w Plsc ran working in an aspe('.t of edu­glad to b1\ lrnrn at Zahm. and

b1::• lw said. . 

cation," said Bednar, who am 0xr.itnd to work with peo­/\l ag<• 2<J, SPymort• is rlos­
will b1• working wilh the ple that have such a strong
l'r in agP lo tlw nwn in his 

Latino branch or cam pus snnsn of' ambition."
dorm than ollwr rectors. !IP 

University 
$$ I need to buy 

Laundry
Nebraska vs. Notre Dame fooball tickets. $$ 

1813 South Bend Ave. at Campus Shops 
Horne Phone: 

"Best Laundromat in Town" 
II 
r---------------------,
(562)598-3949 :50% off Drop-Off Serivce :
24 Hr Voice Mai~:161 

: 24 Tans for $40 :
(?13)487-~ 
1 Bring This Coupon 1 : Expi~es 9/15/00 : 
L---------------------J 
Supreme Court rejects medicinal marijuana 
Thi' stal1• inili,1livP ,illows Associated Press 
sc'riously ill pati1·nl.s t.o gm\\' 
and us I' Ill a r ij II all a l'o r pa i11 
Wi\SIIIM;TON l'('li<'I'. with ii do('lor's 11•1·om­
ThP St1JH'Plll<' Co11rt on nwndatio11. witlw1rl sta11• jlPll:tl­TLwsclav barrPd dislrilrntion of' tiPs. llut 1'1·dc•r.il law savs mari­mariju.111rn tu pPopll' in juana has 110 111Pdic:II ,;urposPs Calif'ornia whosP d1H'lors rPr­and rannlll fip ad1ni11islPri·d omnH'IHI it f'or 11wdil'i11al pur­s.il'l'ly 1111d1·r llll'diral Slll)('f'\'i­poS(\S. siun. 
Tlw court. \ol.ing 7-1 [11 grant 111 tlw Calil'ornia <'aSI'. Ill<' 'JIit 
an ('IIWl'gn111·.v Cli11lon admi11is­l;,s. <.irruil Coul'l r,I' ,\pfH•als trat io11 rPqt1Pst, postponPd th,, n1h·cl that "111,~dkal tll'('f'S'iitv" is <'fTl'ct of' l'PdPrnl court rulings a "lt•gally rog11i1.alilc• clc·l'c'ns;," lo that would havP ullo\\'Pd a a rharg1• ll!' distribul.ing drugs in C:alili1rnia club lo disl1'ilrni.(• Uw violation 01· a l'PdPrnl law. tilf• iJ1t,gal drug l'or 11wdil'i1111I us1•. C11111rolll'd S111Jsliu11·t•s :kl. 
Co v1' r II nw n t I,l\\' y Prs It ad Jlp1·ausP 01: lirnt rnling..ludgr• sought ('IIWrgt'll('Y l1Plp frolll C:harlPs llrPV<'I' said llH' Oakla11d Justice• Si111drn Dav O'Connor. Cannabis liuyPrs' Coop('f'ati\'f' who rdi•tTf'd llw n:quPst to tlH' rould pm,·ick marijtra11a to pc>11­full courl. plP fa('ing i111111i1w11t harm l'ro111 
Only .JustirP .John l'a11l SPl'ious nwdirnl 1·rn1<li1ion-; 11ml Stcw,;s disscntPd. llr· said llw l'or wh11m l1•g:il allnriativr·s to govPrnmPnt "lrns l'ailPd tn marijuona do not work 11r t·a11S<' clPmonstral<' that tlw d<'nial of' i11lolPr;11llf' sid<• f'J'l'Prts. lltH·.nssary !ll<'dil'i1w to sPriousl.v .l11slir1• lkpnrt1111·111. la\\yPrs 
ill ,llHI dying pati1•11ts will n11lr•d tlw '!th Cir<'11it 1·011rl's adva111·.P thP publi1· inln1'st or "l111prc•('1•<IP11tPd ruling" a da11­Llwl tlw foilun• to nnjoin tlw dis­g1•rou~ onl' iif't'HIIS<' it ('l'f'H(('(I tribut.io11 ol' such nwcliri1w \\'ill "itH'Ptlli\PS l'or drug 111<1nuf'ar­impair tlH• ort!Nly <'nliirc·('lll<'lll luri>rs and rlistrili11lors l11 inrnk,• of' fodPral criminal stalutc•s... llw assPrl1•cl 1wPds ol' ollwrs as 
.luslicn Slnplwn c;. Bn'y<'r dis­a justil'iralion l'or thPir drug 
qualifiPd hirnsPII' from tlw 1·asP. traf'lid;ing." llis broUwr. Charl<'s. a l'Pdi•ral ThP govt•rtllll<'lll's ·1•rnP1-g<•1wy trial judge in San Francisrn. rPl(llf'St said allo\\'ing surh dis­previously had barrnd distribu­lri but ion of' marijuana \\'ould tion ol' marijuana only lo haw "pro11111t1· disn•sppc·t and disn•­his d!'cision r<'VPrsPcl by a fi·dPr-gard litr an ad of' C:ongrPss that al app!)als court. · is <'<'!lira! lo rn111hati11g illil'il 
Tlw high1\st 1·ourt's action, drug traflkking and 11sP b.,· gi,·­which ranw in a hri<'I' orcll'I'. ing a juclirial stamp or apprn,·11I was Urn latPst ch•v<'lopmPnt in a to tlw op1•11 and n0Lori11us dislri­conflict bPlW<'Pll rt•dPra I na r­but.ion of' fillq{al) subsl1tll('<'S 111 cotics laws and a I <J 1J(1 pot<'nlially thousands ol' usc•rs California votPrs' iniliativP without anv of' tlw stril't <·011­known as l'roposilion 21 :i, trnls n•quin;d.. by rf'dPr,t! l:m. 

Writing the Fulbright Essay:Writer's WorJishop 
SjHJnrnred By: 
The Notre Dame Writing Center 
This writer's \\'orbhop is fl1r people wlw wi.sh tt1 sh;1rpen tlwir Fulhright 
;q,plictti(ln css;1ys. Rri11g ;t co1,y of y(lur ess,1y t() the wurbhup ,md discL1s.s it 
with urher writers ;md 1,.,·1rh rc;1ders from the Notre rbme Writing Center. 
You cm hrtng in the p()lislwd dr,1fr, a rnu.L;h hcginning, or just an outline of 
what yuu want to say. 
The workshop is meant tu help yrn1 at ,ill sc1gcs of the \\Tiring process, 
whether you arc l;t'tting_ sr,1rted, defining conu:pts, develn11 ing your n;1rrarive, 
,irganizing ynur illcas, or making final edits. The worksh,i1, is dcsigncLI t-1 
irnprn\·c your ,rnrk-in-prngrcss hy giving you the opporrunity to shmc ir with 
1-cr1ders ,mll ,_ither writers. 
To Register: Registration is limited. To register, send an e-mail to Professor John Duffy, Writing Center Director, at 
. John.M.Duffv.. 27@nd.edu. 
Where: 2i)2 DcBartolo 
When: Thursday, August 31, 6:30-8:30 p.m. 
l==a========j 

ATION 
Wednesday, Augusr 30, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
China arrests Catholic priest: 
Pulice have arrested a priest in China's undnrground Catholic church for celebrating Mass in a private home. 1-<'ive police raided thn house in Jinfeng township in southeast­t1rn Fujian province cm Aug. 19 and tnok away Fathnr (;,:10 Yihua. the U.S.-based Cardinal Kung Foundation said. It said the pricsl's whereabouts rmnain unknown. China forbids worship outside state-approved churchf:s. In recent weeks. authorities in thn•1• prnvinrns haV<• dPtainNI morP than l;-iO l'rolt~stants worshipping in house churches. 
French minister resigns: Tho quar­t.Pr-cnn tury of Corsican separatist violence that has stymiPd succossivn French govern­nrn n ls Ind to tlw rnsignation Tuesday of Fran1•p's respt>1·tcd inWrior minister, crnating cracks in the ldt's govPrning coalition . .lean­l'icrre Chovennmcnt. who snrvod throe years as intPrinr minister. said his departure was llw "logical 1·onsequence"of his optm dis­agrnPmtrnt with the Socialist-lPd govPrnment on a 1wat:1\ plan for Corsica. Political nppo­1rnnts said Chcvmwment's d,'.parturn was a sign Llw ldt was Wlmkening. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
California proposes gun law: Tim statP SPnat(' approvnd a proposal for one of tlw nation ·s touglrnst handgun licensing laws, a bill that V,'()Uld rPquire most prospective gun O\\ rwrs to pass a safety rmirsc and get a 1ir1msn from a local law cnforcPmonl agency. Tlw IPgislation, approYl'd Monday by 22-15. !'acPs a likl'ly V!'lo from tlw govPrnor should it win passagP in tlw Assm11bly. The proposal would rPquirP Pvery prospPctivn gun owner ,•xcPpt 1·u1-rPnl and l'f)tirPd law cnforr.Pmcnt oflin·rs to pass a writtnn exam and a firing rangP sal'.-ty tPsl. A wriltPn Lest would be n·q uin·d !'or !ic<'llSP rerwwal PVPry livo years or wlwn llw gun ow1wr's driver's license t>xpirl'd. 
U.S. denies visa to Cuban: The Clinton administration has denied a visa to the president of' Cuba's National Assembly. preventing him from attending an interna­tional confcrnnce or parliamentarians in New York. two C.S. of1icials said Tuesday. But two Cuban assembly deputies will be permitted to attend the conference. The Cuban denied a visa. Bicardo Alarr.on, said the United States showed "contempt and lack or respect" for the Inter-Parliamentary Union. Suspecting he would be dnnind the visa. Alarcon accused the U.S. government of "rudeness" and inter­fering with tlrn conference. 
Dow 
]ONES 
Up: 
Market Watch 8/29 

11215.10 -37.74 
Composite
Same: Down: 
Volume:
52! 
lfv 

783,369,000 
AMEX: 933.48 -l.49 
Nasdaq: 4082.17 + 11.58 
NYSE: 673.44 -1.28 S&P 500: 1509.84 -4.25 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN 
1\lll. IT.I !-.COM lt-:C: (ADC 1·; ..-10.0(, +J.62.7) MIROSOFT CORI'! MSFTI " ).! · . .172~ IJU.I. CUMl'UTrn lllr.l.U +l..h8 •1.11600 CISCO ~YSTFMS ICSC:O) +0.7'i .-0.4''7~ AT&T COil.i' (T) +4.l)(t + 1,00 
PRICE 
.l'J.6'J 
71l.94 
411.)(, 
<,(,.5(, 
.ll.7> 

PHILIPPINES 
Rebels threaten to kill U.S. hostage 
Associated Press 
ZAMBOANGA 

'.\1uslim rebels in tho Philippines threatened Tuesday to kill an American man th<>y have kidnapped unless the United States,accepts their demands. 
Jeffrey Craig Edwards Sr.hilling, of Oakland, Calif., was seized Monday by a faction of' the Abu Sayyaf rebel group, ·which this week released six other Western hostages in return for a rnportcd $Ci million ransom but was still holding 18 other captives. 
In a radio interview. rebel 
spokesman Abu Sabaya said the rebels would "not hesitate to execute this American guy if the Philippine government and the U.S. will not lis­ten to our demands." 
Sabaya said the specific demands would be announced in three days. 
"We demand for our principles, we demand for our religion, we demand for our ideology," he told the Radio Mindanao Network. 
"We have been trying very hard to get an American because the Americans may think we are afraid of them," he said when asked if they had abducted Schilling to prevent a military operation against Ab.u 
Sayyaf. 
Chief government hostage negotia• tor Robert Aventajado confirmed Schilling had been kidnapped. saying an envoy had seen him in an Abu Sayyaf camp on southern .lolo island. 
Sabaya said Schilling had contacted Abu Sayyaf rebels in Zamboanga and identified himself as a Muslim con­vert who was interested in visiting the camp of the rebels, who are fight­ing for an Islamic state in the south­ern Philippines. 
The rebels suspected he was a CIA agent when they discovered he knew little about Islam and decided to abduct him to Jolo, Sabaya said. 

SOUTH KOREA 
Korean leaders strive for peace 
Associated Press 
SEOUL 

A five-member govern­ment delegation from South Koma traveled to North Korea on Tuesday for three days of high-level talks on P.asing tensions between the two countries. Seoul officials said. 
The talks, the second since late last month, aim to follow up on an accord reached at a historic summit in .lunP, whl'n loaders of the two Koreas pledged to work together to promote peace and eventual reunification. 
Thn unprecedentnd sum­mit between the two Koreas provided the best hope yet for peace on the divided peninsula, the world's last Cold War frontier. 
"We have taken a great first step forward ... but we still have a long way to go to 

achieve national reconcilia­
tion. co-prosperity. peace 
and unification," South 
Korean Unification Minister 
Park Jae-kyu said in a state­
ment issued in Pyongyang, 
the l\orth's capital. A copy 
of Park's statement was 
released in Seoul. 
Park, ar.companied by 20 
assistants and 10 reporters, 
arrived in Pyongyang 
aboard a chartered com­
mercial plane after a 50­,minute flight Tuesday. 
During a dinner hosted by North Korean Prime Minister Hong Sung Nam, Park made a speech calling for more reunions of fami­lies separated by the 1950­53 Korean War. The two Koreas sent 100 separated family members to each other's capitals for four-day temporary reunions in mid­August. 
South Korean ollicials said 
key discussion points in the 
talks include opening a mili­
tary hot line, a detailed 
schodule to reconnect a rail­
way across the heavily 
armed border and the first­
ever meeting between the 
defense ministers of the two 
sides. 

Officials also were to dis-
AFP Photo North and South Korean leaders meet to encourage economic cooperation and a reduction in tension. Among other issues, building a railway line across the heavily 
armed border is proposed to increase communication. 
cuss an investment protec­the two sides. tion and double taxation Another important topic treaty and ways to resolve expected to be discussed in disputes stemming from Pyongyang is scheduling a future economic exchange, visit to Seoul for North local media quoted unidenti­Korean leader Kim Jong II. fied government sources as He has openly promised to saying. send one of his close confi­
In the first round of talks dants, Kim Yong Sun, to in Seoul, the Koreas agreed South Korea in September to re-link a major cross-bor­to discuss his visit to the der rail line which was cut South Korean capital. Kim off shortly before the Jong ll's visit is a key part of Korean War, but details the inter-Korr,a summit h,we yet to be worked out. agreement. 
The Koreas were divided A'i part of the agreement. into the communist North South Korea plans this and the pro-Western South weekend to send back 63 in 1945. The 1950-53 convicted North Korean Korean War ended with an spies who were freed after armistice. not a peace serving long prison terms. treaty, and their border Japan has criticized South remains the world's most Korea's plan to repatriate at heavily fortified. least one of the convicted 
South Korea wants to spies, a man who testified in break ground f'or the rail­1985 that ho helped kidnap way project jointly with a Japanese cook in 1980. North Korea around Sept. Seoul had no immediate 
15. The work requires reaction to Japan's criti­clearing tens of thousands of cism. mines inside the demilita­South Korea also plans to rized zone that separates raise the issue of hundreds. 
perhaps thousands, of South Koreans believed to be living in the North against their will. Seoul officials say tens of thousands of South Korean prisoners of war never returned home after the war ended. Citing defec­tors, they believe about 300 may still be there. 
The Seoul government also says North Korea abducted 3,756 South Koreans after the war ended. All but 454 of them -mostly fishermen -were sent back to the South. Pyongyang denies the alle­gation, calling it a smear campaign. 
In another sign of thawing relations, a South Korean fishing boat that drifted into North Korean waters with navigational problems was returned Tuesday. In the past, many South Korean ships that crossed the bor­der could not come back, with the North holding them and their crews on spying charges. 

page 6 The Ohserver . NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, August 30, 2000 
Beating causes LAPD legal woes 
I.OS 1\f\Cl-:I.l:S 
Vil'lims of tlw los AngPIPs police-rorruption scandal can sue• 1111!11'1' lilt• r,•dpral l'Hl'KI'· IPPri11g Iii\\' originally ainwd at !IH· moll. ,1 judg" rn!Pd in a d1•1·isio11 lhat could cost tlw ritv IH11Hln•ds of millions of dollars.' 
U.S. 1Jislri1·1 .ludg«' William l!Pa is.,w•d hi~ ruling !\fonday in a d,il rights la\\suiL fi11·cl Jul\ :l 1111 lll'ilalf of l.oui1• (;UPl'l'Pl"O, :~h. who ull1•gps tlrnt o!Tic•prs gralilwd. rlwk1·d. kirk,•cl and pII !IC hPcl hi Ill. Ihi' II 11.l'l'f\SiPd him 0&1 lrnmpPcl-up charges in 
11)97. 
Tl11• ruli1111 allows C:unrrnro to rPl'i11• tlil' lawsuit trnd1•r thP Hal'k1•t1•1•r l!1flu1•111·Pd and Corrupt Organizations /\d. tlw l 1) 7il Iil w ai111Pd at bus! 
ilalions (o I 0 vt>ars aflt>r a ;.,-imP is commilll'd. 
This l'ould lwrn1111• Liw first casl' in which a policP dPparl­nwnt has bPl'll lwld rnsponsibil' und,H" HICO. said Erwin 
CIH•nwrinskv. a UnivPrsitv of 
Soullwrn California law pn;r..s­sor. 
"I think it's insanity," PolicP 

C:0111missionnr llt!rbert 
Bo1•ckma11 said of'llw ruling. 
Ofticurs assignml to thn policn dt•[Htrtm1•nt's Bampart division hav,• brr11 ac1·t1sPd of lying, planting Pvid1•11cp and covi•ring up shootings. 
Mon· llwn JOO l'nnviclions lrnv1• lwn11 ov11rtun1(•d sine<~ S1•plPmlwr, and fivn ofl'irnrs haVI' bPrn1 1·ha1w•<l witl1 crinws rnnging from planting vrnapons to all<'ll1P1''d murci<'r. Tlw city ,•xp,•1·ts up lo '2.7:i lavvsuils as a rc•sult of' tlw burgi•oning scan­dal. 
Till' j11dJ.!1· in tlw C11Prrr>ro t'.asr• has VP! to rul<• 011 w!wllwr it can pn;cnl'd as a class-action 011 lwhalf' ol' al! lhosP who WPr<' abus1·d by Lill' policn. No trial datP has bl'Pll st'L 
Tlw ras1• was brought by la\\)'1'1' StPphPn Yagman. a 
longtimn 1Tit­
ic or tlw 
ng LA!'I> who
"I want to rebuild the 
"criminal 

has f'ilc\d 
I' 11 ( (' I' p I' iSI'S IAl'IJ so U sen,es lhP Los 
sonw 1.5 luw­such as tlw Angeles community and su its against
MHl'ia. HICO the depart-
slops (>eing an occupying
allows plain­11wnt. 
tiffs lo l'l'<'.l'iVI' paramilitary force." "This will triplP clam­:-.how whut I ag1•s and was saying
Stephen Yagman
!'XlPtHls tlw all alcm!{ was
lawyer and critic of LAPD
stattllr of' lim­

rotTfH'L: The LAl'I> is a criminal 
,in Lc1 r p rise." Yagm an said . "Wlrnn I said this in tlw past. it was dismiss11d as th<) ravings of' a lunatic." 
HICO was dPsign<'d by Congress lo crack clown on organized crime, drug dealPrs and smugglers. In subsnqtwnt decad1\S iL has b1rn11 usl'cl 
against strnot gangs. IIMOs, 
lob11cco companies, law firms and nwdical prnctic1\S. 
In tlw 1990s, thn National Or!{anization o/' \-\'omPn and two abortion clinics usNI HICO to win millions of dollars in damages l'rom the anti-abortion 
group Opnralion Hnsnu•. 
With tlw lawsuit against tflf' Ll'd'D. "it's pushing tlw staluh• lo its limits and it's ratdwling up thn stakP.s," said Loyola Univp1•sit_v law prnf1•ssor l.auriti 
I.PVl'llSOn. 

Yag:man said lw nnd n,-coun­s,·I Brian Lysaght invoknd HICO wlwn a onP-vnur timP limit appoarnd to b;, running out on sonw of' tlw lawsuits involving nlkg1•d victims of' policP mis­conduct. A HICO lawsuit could also h•ad to f'11de1ral oVl'rsight of' tlw c!Ppartnrnnl. 
TPrhnirally. tlw lawsuit is nol against Lhi\ LJ\l'D, which is imm u1w from liligalion, bu l against <'ily officials and cur­n111t and f'orm1\r polic,~ r.hids. Tlw lf1ad dofondant is former l'olic,1 Chief Daryl Gat<)S, who was forrnd out in tlrn aft1mnath of' tlw riots ovr)r the Hoclnny King cast:. 
"I want to rnbuild. the LAl'D so it serves llrn Los Ang1•lns r.ommunity and stops boing an occupying paramilitary f'orcn." Yagman said. 
l'olicP Chid B<1rnard Parks, who is named as 01w of' the def'endants. suggestnd Yagman and Lysaght am trying to li1rn tlwir own pocknts. Parks not1\d that tlw judgP did not c!Pclan~ thP departmflnt a criminal 1ml!\rprise. and suggnsll\d thn ruling: would b,1 chal!,\ngml. 
Weekend rain could 
help crews fight fires 
Associated Press 

HFD I.ODCI!, Mont. 
Montana's govnrnor askl'd l'r«'sic!Pnt Clinton to dPclarP Montana a f'Pdc·ral disastl'r an•a TuPsdav iJPciausl' of' its hug<• ,vilrllin< as cxhaus!c•d lirnfighlt11·s l11ok<'d liopnf'ully toward th<' w1•Pkn11d and tlw possibility ol' rain. 
Gov. Marc llacic'ot told Clinton tlw slatl' has nxlwust­nd its fin~ lighting rt1so111·r1•s and askncl liir a li1dl'ral disas­tnr clndaration that. would l'rPc' up morp l'ndPral nm1w,v. Tlll' g'OV(!r!llll" csti­m at nd wilcl­
lirf'S arn cost­

'This is the.first real 
thr, rl'll\l'r
ing Montana 

uwather pattern dwnge said.
businossns $] million a dav. in the West j(Jr three I II 
Idaho. twoIn a visit ·to 
months." 

N <' w 
onn lirn camp I I' r s " vrwar IInll'na. 

l'irPl'ight·­
Bob Nester
however. tlw l'rs wPrl' 

g o v n r n o r National Weather 
injurPd
hoard a lhrn­
Service forecaster 

whc·n acast for what would bn first break in tlw drought that has hdpnd li•Pd tlw lirPs. 
Coolcr tnmpcratur1•s and scattrn·pci rain shmvPrs an• ,1xpnctPCI for tlw Labor Day wenknnd. said Bob NPslPr. a National Weatlrnr SnrvicP forncastnr. 
"This is Llw first rnal wnath­nr pall<'rn changt\ in llw \Vi's! for thrPn months... h<' told Hacicot. 
Tlw National l11t1•ragP111'.y 
FirP C:nntnr in Hois<'. Idaho, said tlmn• Wl'l'f' :r1 largi• lir<'s burning on <>74.000 alTl'S in Montana 011 Tu1•srlav. Thi• 
biggnst ac<:ounll'd !'or 'a1111ost 2:i0,000 a1Tt's al'l.,•r t.lw Valll'V Complnx and llw Mussigbroil lin•s in tlH' Bitt,·rroot Vall<'V bunwd log«•tllf'r. · 
Nationally. th<'r<• Wl'l'I' 84 l'ir<'s 011 I.(, million a1'1'l'S. Idaho n•por!nd 2(, larg<' lirl's 011 1warlv 74:i.OOO anc•s; Wyoming.' liv1• larg1• lirl's on :i1,000 al'l'<'S; and South llc1kota 0111' (,:i.000-111-r,• lir<'. 
So for this war. (i.2 million arr<'s in lh1: Llnil1•d Slal<'s 
h a ,. " 
b II r 11 "cl. 
drivl'r!Pss 
lirl' lankl'r rolll'fl ovPr l.lwir tPnl as 1111'\' Wf'l'I' rl'sting lw!w1'l'll shif't;, 0ll1' man had a brokPn lr•g and two brokP11 ribs. and tlll' ollwr had abdominal swPlling and Ill'l'k pain. 
ll was t.lw first major al'l'i­dPnt in tlw lin·lighting l'iforts 011 tl11• I'12.400-anl' C!Par Cn•Pk lin•, whPl'f' rnon' than 
I.:iOO llll'll and wonwn haw bl't'll snaping l'irPli111•s !'or morP !han a monlh. 


Wednesday, August 30, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
ITALY 
SPAIN 

Basque separatists
Pope offers IDoral IDedical guides 
Associated Press 
ROME 

l'opP John Paul II sought Tu<>sday to lay down moral guidPlinns l'or medical rnsrntrch in tho 21st cnntury. endorsing organ dona­tion and adult stnm cell study but rnn­d nm n in g human cl11ni11g and embryo I' X p (' I' i ­
nwnts. 
J o h n Paul's addn~ss lo an international ronfonirH·<' or ::i,000 transplant spncialists appnared to be an atkmpl to set moral limits on such lif'c-and-dealh issues as organ transplants and rnlatnd rnsnarl'h. 
John Paul won applause from tlw transplant PXpPrts wlwn he <mcouraged organ donation, call­ing it an "act of love." 
Bul if' his stance against Pmbryo rcsm1rch were l'ollowed. "all tlrnse pPople with serious clis­PasPs would have no hope," said onP supportnr of the research, Dr. Holwrt Goldstein or thn New York-based Juvenile DiabPtcs Foundation. 
Underscoring how important lw considerPd the issue, thn 80­year-old pontilT left his summPr r<'trnat at Castel Gandolfo outsidn BomP to address thn lntPrnational Congrnss of tlrn Transplantation SociPty. 
But thc acldrnss w<'nt bPvnnd lwing a boostPr speech l'or l;rgan donations. 
.John Paul spelled out the church's position on transplant­rnlatNl matters, condemning the 

When: Where: 
Why: 

sal1: of organs, insisting on informed consent on both sides of the exchange and singling out the complete end of brain activity as an arceptable wav to deter­mine that death has occum")d. 
Calling organ donation "a gen­uinc ar.t of love," he said, "Accordingly, any procedure which tends to commercialize hum an organs or to consider them as items of exchange or trade must b11 considered moral­ly unacceptable." 
The decision on who should b,~ first in line to receive organs can lie bil.scd only on nrndical factors, John Paul said -not nn age, sex, race, religion, social standing, usefulness lo sociely or any other standard. 
IIn Jell the door open for cross­sp11cics transplants. 
Tbo pope's support for organ donation was likf1ly to havf1 an impact on his 1 billion-strong flock of Homan Catholics. Traditionally, many Catholics have been adverse to both organ transplants 
cloning for research and the United States approving federal 
blamed for shooting
funding for research on human cmbrvo stem cells. 
The Rritish and U.S. actions both grew out of scientific cxcite­ment about the promise of research on embryonic stem cell -parent cells that go on to form most types of cells and tissues. 
Hesearchors hope the cells can some day be used to grow cells. tissues or whole organs -offer­ing hope for scores of diseases from diabetes to Alzheimer's. 
Experts say one of the most promising areas for the research is in Parkinson's -a mrnrologi­cal ailment of which the pope himself shO'vvs symptoms. The Vatican no longer denies he has it, although it has never con­lirnwd it. 
In the church's view, cloning is irreconcilable with its position that sex between married cou­ples is the only acceptable way to create human life. 
"Methods that fail to respect 
the dignity 
and rr11ma­am! value of 
died in the town's hospital
"Accordingly, any procedure 
tion for rea­the person 
an hour after the attack. His 
sons having which tends to commercialize m u s t 
wife, pregnant with their 
to do with human organs or to consider always be 
.first child, was admitted to a
keeping the avoided," 
hospital later in shock.

them as items of exchange or
body intact John Paul 
Although not a member of
trade must be considered 
for resur­told the 
the governing Popular Party,
rection. morally unacceptable." medical 
Indiano became a councilor
John Paul workers. 
in Zumarraga for the party
also spoke "I am 
six months ago. The conser­
Pope John Paul II
out against thinking in 
vative party fiercely opposes
cloning and particular 
Basque separatism and
related of attempts 
other moves to change
embryo research, a rapidly at human cloning with a view to 
Spain's political makeup,

c!Pveloping field in the four yoars obtaining organs for transplants: 
No one took responsibility
sine!' Dolly tlw lamb first strug­These techniques, insofar as thev 
for the shooting, but Interior
glPd to its cloned hooves. involve the manipulation and 
Ministry officials immediate­
Tho pope renewed his opposi­clestrur.tion of human embryos, 
ly blamed ETA, which began
tion to both techniques just arc not morally acceptable, even 
its campaign for indepen­
weeks after Britain moved when their proposed goal is good 
dence of the three-province
toward allowing limited human in itself." 
northern region in 1968. The killing brought to 1 2 the number of slayings ­
claims responsibilitv for its attacks several wee"ks after carrying them out. 
Officials believe the latest ETA campaign seeks to push the governm1mt to !.hr\ nr\go­tiating table. A single round of talks during last year's truce lmded in stalemate. 
The killing was con­demned by political parties, labor unions and Amnesty International. 
"We are faced once again with the confirmation that the terrorist group ET A has no other aim but to impose its will on others and Pxter­mi nat11 all those who don't 
think  like  thev  do  "  said  
deputy  Prime  M'inister  
Marian Rajoy.  
lndiano's body  was  to  bo  

brought to Madrid, where his parents live, for burial Wednesday, news rnports said. 
Hundreds of people gath­ered Tu11sday evening in Bilbao, San Sebastian and Vitoria, the capitals of the three Basque provinces, to observe a few minutes of silence. The quiet was bro­ken by periodic shouts against ET A. 
In Zumarraga itself, at a special town meeting cal!Pd to condemn the killing, one of three councilors who belong to the pro-ETJ\ party Euskal Herritarrok tried to read a communique but was drowned out by shouts of "murderers." 
While security force mem­bers have long been ETA's main target, in recent years the organization has begun killing more politicians, par­ticularly those or Prime Minister Jose Maria J\znar's Popular Party. 
Aznar, who was on a visit to Poland on Tuesday, sur­vived a car-bomb attempt on his life in 1995 when he was in the opposition, 

. Politician marks fifth death this month 
Associated Press 

SAN SEBASTIAN 
A politician was gunned down Tuesdav in the street of a northern town in the latest in a series or slayings hlamed on the armod Basque separatist group
ETA. . Manuel lndiano, 29, was shot 10 times in the chest and abdomen outside his candy store in Zumarraga, a Basque town, about 250 miles north of Madrid. policc said. lndiano, who authorities said refused police protec­tion normally offered politi­cians in the Basque region, 
five this month -attributed to ETA since it ended a 14­month truce last December.
Football Ticket Forum 
The group, whose name stands for Basque Homeland and Freedom, has be1rn blamed for killing nearly 800 people. It normally 
Do you have something to say about Student Football Ticket Sales? 
CSC Vehicle Driver Certification Sessions  
Attend me Sllldent Ticket forum  
and sueak iour mind la the #MB111liilio1  August 31, September 12, September 26 (attend one) Center for Social Concerns ­Room 124 (7-8 pm)  

Student Recertification Required Each Year (faculty and staff encouraged to attend)
Thursday, August 31 ·· 5 · 6pm 
\'ehicle runs will begin Monday, September 4 Priority in scheduling will be given to CSC Service Groups and
The Foster Room, 3rd Floor Lafortune 
other groups doing volunteer service 
\'an line: 1-7847 or e-mail cscvans. l@nd.edu
Because your opinion counts!! 
I 
i 
I ! 
I 
page 8 The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 Wednesday, August 30, 2000 


Associated Press 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. 
Al Corn touted his $100 billion plan to help providr, heallh cam to every !\nH~rican child and said Tuesday it's time for rival George 
W. Bush to 
"p ul uI!, or shut up 011 hna Ith ,:uni policy. 
I! u s h rl'tortcd that (;om was 
nisorting lo the kind of' Gore partisan s n i p i n g that's paralyzed Washington. "I folt like his comments under­line thP point I made," said Bush, who was campaigning in Maine and New llampshirn. "lfwc want to gnt somnthing done in Washington wn ha.ve to change the to!H~ ortlrn discourse." The long-distance cxr:hange canrn as Democrat Gorn was in tlm midst of' a wef'klong focus on health care, telling voters he's 

Gore to Bush: 'put up or shut up' on health care policy 
coverage in Medicare, and Bush said he would otfor details on his plan next Tuesday. 
Gore deputy campaign manag­er Mark Fabiani said, "Now the offering them details of what he'd do if elected -unlike Bush, a 
Hopul.ilican. 

"The time for generalities with­out specifics I think is just about over," said Gore. "It's kind or put up or shut up time." 
Speaking w i t h reporters on his cam­paign air­plane, Bush was scorn­
ful. 
"H's not very prcsi-
Bush dential to me," said Bush. 
The Democratic National Committee backed up Gore with a new ad on prescription drugs for Mtidicare. "Bush has no spe­
. cific plan." it charges. It's the fourlh political ad in a week on the drug issue, which is particu­their children. 
The parents of one 2-year-old who suffered a broken leg 1old Gore they eventually were able to got insurance coverage through a federal program, but it took a bureaucratic fight, and better outreach would help. 
"Let's not play games with this. Let's put tho facts on the table,'' Gore said, then underscornd his point with details ol' his plan. 
His $100 billion, 10-year chil­dren's health proposal is an expansion of an existing program o!Tering coverage to children of the working poor. 
Gore would cover children in families making up to 250 per· cent of the federal poverty level. He said that would ofTer coverage to the 11 million uninsured chil­dren by 2005. 
"We need to cover every child in the next prPsidcntlal term," said Gore. "Every child ought to have good, high quality health care." 
Gore argued he's flying solo in the health care debate, becaus1~ Bush is ducking on offering 
specifics for child and senior health care. 
"l encour­age our opponents to enter that debate also with a spe• cific plan," said Gore. "I 

think it will be a cam­paign that better serves the American people if they can com­pare the plans that both sides have put forward and make the judgment for themselves." 
Gore on Monday touted his plan to add a prescriplion drug question is what will he do for the children? What does Governor Bush intend to do about tlrn 11 mil­lion uninsured children in t.lrn country, 1.4 mil­lion or whom livr, in Texas?" 
In response, a Bush spokesman, Dan Bartlett. con­
"We need to cover every child . ... Every child ought to have good, high quality health care." 
Al Gore Democratic presidential candidate 
tended, "UndPr Al Gore's watch, them arc 2.4 million more unin• sured children in Amrrica because the Clinton-Gorn admin• istration's effort to nationalize !wallh cam was soundly rPjPctod by the American people in 1CJCJ3," 
larly popular with seniors. Gorn. campaigning in a photo-l'ricndly park. listened to local 
THE UNIUERSITY OFNOTRE DAME residents talk of the difficulty they've had getting coverage for 
COACHES' CAR WASH 
THURSDAY, AUGUST 31ST • 11:00AM -1:00PM 
6010 FIElD PARKING LOT, WEST Of ECK BAS_Ell_All STADIUM ENTER OFFEDISON ROAD 
~~ 
/ ,r ,.J

S5.00 DONATION PROCEEDS BENEFIT THE UNITED WAY Of ST. JOSEPH COUNTY ~~ 
. ~~:i 
~I 
iii I I I Ii r;-;-,r,~r
"MEET THE COACHES AND GET ACLEAN CAR" 
SPONSORED BY THE UNIVERSITY Of NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT Of ATHLETICS 
-
2 0 

WANNA BE A 
rn.. :: D.J.?? 
~ 

r-• WVFI l1formatio1 Meeting
8 
C: 

TONIGHT, Wed1es•ay,
2 

?J -t • All11st 30 at 7:00 ,.¦. :5 -a I¦ Mo¦qo¦ery T&eater 01 

0 :I: De first floor of laForta ¦e. 
"'0• 


DELIVERING MUSIC, NEWS, SPORTS, AND STUDENT 
OPINIONS TO THE WORLD AT 
WVFI.ND.EDU 

Bvt fov­
thc­

LaFortune Student Center
(;JIVciCN

~-""'=¦-­
of bod. Room 312
~"•·.' -­
417 NOR'IltMI··•·"'°•­
WELCOMES BACK N.D....; 
Friday: Noon -12:45 p.m. 
UPPER CI.Ass NIGHTS @ ffl•1Wl\f0.> 
5-9 PM 1 FREE TOPPING W PUB BURGER ORD 9PM -12AM 4.MONDAY'S.'c DORM ESSENTW.S NIG $2.00/22's
.. . 

5-9 PM F SUPE SIGN UP N LEAGUE 


5-9 PM "NE ¢:,, BURGER/CHII.I WEDNESDAY NI Contact: 1-7970 for details WEDNESDAY 10:30 P 

Voters consider campaign reform 
Casinos attract Asians, 

= * Do you welcome the challenge to articulate and share yourfaith. = I * Would you like to be a valuable asset to a local parish? ¦ I * Would you like to work towards catechist certification? ¦ 
I I I I I I 
I · I
I If you can answer YES to any or all of these questions, 1I come find out more about being a Religion Teacher. : 
!I Call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-7163 !I 
¦ I 
: Important Information Meeting: I 
I M I
I Wednesday, August 30, 5:00-6:00 P. . : I Foster Room of LaFortune Student Center I 
I ¦ 
¦ I 
I I 
I I 
¦ I 
I I 
Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO. Calif. 

Calif'orni.a, the Wild West of political giving and spending, and two other st.ates will offer votflrs the chancP in November to ovr,rhaul thr,ir campaign finance laws. 
California's ballot proposal would limit political donations. whilr\ initiativos in Missouri and Oregon wuuld finance campaigns with taxpayer money. 
The measures in Oregon and Missouri would put those 
staks in the foro­l'ront of' thc1 campaign­finance rPform movement. California, on the 
o t h c r hand. is playing catch-up as it con­sidnrs the 
kinds of donation caps that 44 states alrnadv have. 
In Calil'or.nia. individuals, corporations and other special interests can donate as murh as thev want. 
Dcrriocratic Gov. Grav Davis has r,xploitf1d that system like no onr before him, shattering rncords by collecting more than $21 million for his re­election two years from now. {By comparison. Al Gore has raised $38 million in the same p11riod for his Democratir. pres­
idential runJ 
California's Proposition :H would sN th('. limits for dona­tions l'rom most sources at $20,000 for gubernatorial r,an­
·------------------------------------~ 
I! !  Have you thought about teaching Religion and  I ; !  
¦!  becoming a Catechist?  I!  
¦ I:1I  ..:.iw.-. ¦•I 0/Y\PUSMINISTRY  I I : 1 :  
II  * Do you enjoy working w-ith children or adolescents?  I ¦  
¦  * Can you give one-two hours ofyour time each week?  .  ?  ¦  
to 224.6 million. Blacks 


·~1 plan crafted by Democrats, 
special­supported by Democrats and interrst people
designed spPcifically to help 
giving

[California Gou. Gray! Davis 
$50,000 

cannot be good for the people. " a n d $100,000 contribu­
Shawn Steel 

tions." vice chairman T h e 
California Republican Party measure 
dida.tes, $5,000 for other statewide candidates and $3,000 for legislative candi­dates. 
Political parties could give unlimited amounts to candi· dates but collect no more than $25,000 a year from any one donor to support or oppose specific candidates. "Soft money" donations not target­ing a candidafo would be unlimited. 
"lt diminishes the power of spedal interests." said Senate Democratic leader John Burton, co-author of the mea­sure. "It's infinitely better than basically having 
h a s 

prompted an outpouring of criticism from government watchdog groups, who say it is so riddled with holes it would be worse than the current system. 
"In most states that would be a step backward," said Nick Nvhart. executive director of P~1blic Campaign, a Washington-based group. 
The measure's donation lim­its would be among the highest in the nation. said Tony Miller, who is leading the campaign against Proposition 34. California's campaigns are also among the most expensive to mount, because the state is so big and has so many television markets. 
Proposition 34 would make it 
Hispanics to Las Vegas
harder tn track who is seeking to buy influence, Miller said. Instead of giving directly to a 
c,mdidate, a special interest could give to a party, which could then channel the money to the politician. 
"It's really money-launder­ing, is what it is," Miller said. 
Among Miller's other objec­tions It would permit special interests to "bundle" contribu­tions from their employees to increase their impact, and it would supersede far more stringent restrictions approved by voters four years ago, now moving through the courts. 
Republicans, too, take a dim view of the proposal. 
It exempts statewide office­holders -of whom all but one are Democrats -from the donation caps until after the 2002 election, leaving Davis unaffected by its provisions. 
And it defines oach union local as a separate entity, rather than belonging to one statewide or larger organiza­tion. So countlPss union groups could donate the maximum. Unions generally support Democrats. 
"The worst part of the plan is the transparency of giving Gray Davis the right to contin­ue pillaging donors for the next two vears," said Shawn Steel, vice chairman of the California Republican Party. "A plan crafted by Democrats, support­ed bv Democrats and designed specifically to help Davis can­not be good for the people." 
The measure was placed on the ballot by the Legislature and Davis, who complained that he had been blindsided by it. Burton moved it through the Legislature with no public hearings. 
for the most part just don't 
Associated Press 
show that dramatic of a change," Sink said. Overall, the
WASHINGTON 

Hispanic and Asian growth isThose new hotels and casinos "largely being fueled by immi­that sprouted up in Nevada's gration."
Clark County this past decade Nevada's 50 percent popula­
attracted more than just gam­
tion growth led all states duringblers anxious to try their luck 
the 90s. Its Asian populationunder the bright lights of Las 
rose 123.7 pcrcrnt to 88,208,
Vegas. 
the largest such increase in the
The boom also brought an 
nation,· while its Hispanic popu­influx of Asians and Hispanics 
1ation rose 144.6 percent to 
eager to fill new construction 304,364. Hispanics can be of
and service-industry jobs, a 
any race.
devrlopment that helped makr, Unprecedented new hotel and
Nevada the fastest-growing r.asino construction in Clark 
state in the 1990s. 
County
New Census Bureau estimates 
opened
being released today show that 
up more Population
increases in the nation's two 
jobs dur­
fastest-growing minority popu­rises:
ing the
lations are also helping to spark 
decade, For U.S. populations
gains elsewhere. 
s a i d 
between 1990 and

Between July 1, 1990 and 
Steven
July 1, 1999, the nation's Asian 1991:
Kwon, aand Pacific Islander population 
L a s . Asian: 43% 
grew 43.0 percent to 10.8 mil­
Vegas
lion. and the Hispanic popula­. Hispanic: 38 .8%
architect
tion grew 38.8 percent to 31.3 
a n d . American Indian and
million, the Census estimates 
founder 
Alaska Native: 15.5%

show. These are the last such 
of the
estimates to be released before are a, s . Black: 13.8% detailed Census 2000 results 
A s i a n . White: 7.3% 
come out next year. 
ChamberCalifornia, Texas and New 
0 f
York -the three most populous 
Commerce. In that county
states -continue to have the alone, the Hispanic populationhighest numbers of minorities, rose 164.3 percent to 219,075.
but Nevada, Georgia and North while its Asian population rose
Carolina experienced the 
139.3 percent to 64,636.
biggest percent increases, 
"In-migration into southern
Census analyst Larry Sink said. 
Nevada is dominated by people"It's largely a condition ofjobs from Southern California," saidand the network of people they 
Dr. Keith Schwer, director ofknow there," said John Haaga the Center for Business andof the Population Reference Economic Research at theBureau, a Washington-based University of Nevada at Las
research group. "That's the tra­
Vegas. "And Southern
ditional American experience." 
California has historically had a
Nationally, the country's high portion of the Asian and
white population increased 7.3 
Hispanic population." 
percent between 1990 and 1999 
California had the biggr,st
Hispanic population with 10.4
remained the country's largest 
million. Over 2.7 million
minority group, experiencing a Hispanics moved into the state13.8 percent spike during the between 1990 and 1999. a 35.8 
same period to 34.8 million, 
percent increase.
while the American Indian and Arkansas. meanwhile, had the
Alaska Native population biggest percentage growth
among Hispanics, increasing
million. 
170.3 percent to 53,729 in the
"The white, black and 
90s.
American Indian populations 
·-------------------~--­
VIEWPOINT 
O
THF page 10 BSERVER Wednesday, August 30, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.t) l\o\ {J, Nurre i1.unc, IN 4(,~';r, 

()~:, South I lnunf_ H.ill. Norrt' I).111\L·, IN 4(1~~(, 
EPITOII IN C1m:1 
,\tik~ Co111wlll' 

MANM;JNc; Ei>ITOR BliSINlSS MANAGER 
Nort·,·n c;iibpi,· rim L.111t· 

AssT. MANAGING EDIIOR OPERATIONS MANAGE!t 
( :hristi1ll' Kral.,· Bri.111 Kt•.s,ler 

NEWS EDITOR: Anrw M,ni,· Manint;ly VIEWPOINT EDIHlll: f il.1 H:iughc\' 
S!'OllTS EDITOR: K,•rrv Smith SCENF EDITOR: ,\rnanda (;rrrn 
SAINT MAltY's fDITOll: ;\loll,· ;\k\'o\' 
PIIOTO Elli !UR: Lli, . .1b,·th l..111g 
ADvu1ns1Nc, M.\NA<;rn: 1',11 l't·rt·r, All [)f~~IGN MANAGI R: Chris i\1•d.1 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: :\like· (;u,l\'i\le Wm ADMINISrRATOR: A,brn Turner CoNTIH>LJ.rn: lloh \'vonds 
GRAl'IIICS EDITOR: Jose Cueil.1r 

CONTACT Us OntCE MANA(;rn/GENEllAL INFO.... .. ..(,51-7471 FAX.... .. ........... 6.\ 1-692.7 
ADVUlTISINt; ..... .f,_\ 1-(,'J()()/88/40 
oh-.r1,·t.·rCr.i\brwi n.n:. nd.l'du Enrnm IN C11111... .. ......................(,,ll-4'i42 MANAGIN(; Enrror1/Ass·1. ML..................C,~1-4'\41 lll'SINFS~ 0FHCL....................................(,5 l -'ij U 
........................... 6.l 1-'i.l2.l oh:,t•rv.:r.oh_..,/ll'\\·s.1 GPnd.l·du VJF.WPOINL .. ........................(dl-'i'IO.l ohsl'f\'l'r.\'icwpoint. l@nd.edu SPOlt rs .... ....... ............................ (,5 l-4'i/4l 11h.sc·rv,·uport.s. l@nd.l'du SCENE.. ............................ (,j 1-4 540 nh!-!1..'1Y1..·r.~cL"11,·. l@nd.l.'du ....................(d 1-4J24 oh!ll"rYl'r.smc. l@nd.edu 
l'IIOTO.......... .. .. (,.\1-8767 SYSTl'MSIWEll ADMINISTRATORS ..... ......... J,,l l -883'J 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

\'i,i, ""' Wd, sit,· .11 l,up:l/o/,,·,,,.,,rr.J1rl.rd11 l,ir tl.iilv npd;tlt.''.\ ol' CllllJHlli lll'WS, ~port;'I, f~·aturl'!t and opinion column:,i, ,1:,i wt·II ,1:,i c,utoon:,i, review!-. and breaking news from rhl' A,wci.11nl !'re". 
Sl/Rf TO: weather \,,r UJHu-rhr movies/music for minutt· forl'C.t;'l(:,i wt·ekl~· stutlent reviews 
aclvt:rtise liH polide, online features t, ,r spc­.,ml r.11c, ul print ,1th cr,11 carnpm rnwragc· 
an:hivcs to M.',ll\."h !CH about The Observer .,nrd,·., publi,hnl ,ifr,·r ! ro mct.·t rht 1..•dirors .111d At1gust \'J')') sr.ili 
POLICIES 

The ( lh,l'l'\'l'\' i, d1t· indq1c11dl'rll, ,"1il\' ncw,p.ip,r publi,lwd i11 pri111 .,nd 1111li1w b)' dw stud,•11t, ot' thl' L'1111n,111· of :-.:o,r,· l),lllll' d11 l..ic ""d S.1i111 M.iry\ l :111icg,·. l•:ditori,d u11ut·111, i11duding aclwnis,·rn,nt.,, i., Hot govnnl'd h~.· politll'\ of da.· ;tdn1111i.,u~H ion orl'il her 11miru1io11. Th~ (lhscrwr rnl'rW, rill' righr ro rchisc ,1dnT1 l\l'llH'lll.., h,1\1:d on OllHC."lll, 
rhl' Ill'\\'\ j~ reponl'd ,1\ Jl(Unttcly .111d olijectivdy ol!\ l"""hll'. L:mig1wd nliwrr.1!, rq>re'<·rH rl1c 11pini1111 of tilt' n1.qoritv of rh, l .ditor i;, ( '.hid . .\1a11.1ging Editor, ,,\~,iM;mr ,\tmagi11g F.d1trn ,tn(.l dc)1artlllL"Jlt l:diror\. l :omrn,·111.rril',, lc·1rc•rs ,111d columm prcsc111 thl' vrl'w, ol dlt' ,11,d,or, and 1101 m·c,·,urily rhosc ofThl' ( ll>stWl'I'. 
Virwpoi 111 ,pact' i, ,ll'ailable 111 all reader,. Thl' frl't' L'XPIL'\\ion ol',,ll opi11i1Hb 1hrough le([t.•r~ i!i rncouraged. l.r·n,·r, 10 d1l' l.diror rnust be sit;11nl and rnu,r include 
~:011t;\(l rnlorm.H1011. 

(JursfJ011.1 ng1trtli11,f. ()h.1,•n,rr politics shmdtl he di11.'.i!­td 111 l:d//m 111 ( .'/•1r/'M1i·,· (.,1111u,l/i·. 

Seeing old friends on the dishline 
I havn a ronf'nssion to makt·. I'm not surl' I'm rnally rnacly to nwPal this to LhP nntin· campus, but I gunss I haVl' to say this sonwtimn. So lwn' gons. My niclw is thP dining hall. I'll nxplain thal. 
Last Monday. I rnad tlH' 1:rnshman Orinntation issun of Tim Obs1•rvPr. My column was in it, so I 
Marlayna
want<'d to s<:P what nlsl' was. I m1dml up 
r11acling sonrnbody nlsn's column about Soenneker 
how thn frnshmnn nend to find an activi­
ty or group or somnthing that tlrny nnjny and makn that tlrnir nidw. ;\s I rnad I/err H'e Go this. I thought a littln sadly to mys<'lf, Again 'Tm a sophomorn, and I still don· t know whnre my niclrn is." 
God knows I lri11d to find it last ymtr. I volunl!)!\J'ml. I was an activist. I joinml musical groups. I m•<m started writing for this papPr. But nmw of tlwsn placns wnn• my nidw, I quickly disrovnrnd. I nnjoynd somn of' tlwm. particularly tlrn writing, but 1101w or th<~m w1~rn places wlwrn I was com!'ortabln with I\Vnryon<~ or wlwrn I krrnw all tlw insidn jnkns. Nonn of' tlwm W<)rn my placn on campus. 
So I canrn into my sopl10morn ynar with a numlwr of things to put on a rnsum<\ of activitins and no plarn that I f'dt I nml­ly bP!ongod. I mad1\ up my mind to wadn bark into the !'ray and lind my nidw ii' it killnd nw. 
!\long canw Monday night. At 8::rn, I wnnl. to tlw lwginning of' tlw yPar nwr~ting for tlw clining lrnll workPrs, sinrP 1am. aft<·r all, a dining hall workPr. This consistnd ortlw studt•nt managnrs, about l 2 of' tlinm, tlw rnturning w·orknrs. about 
20. and about 8 million frnshnwn. all but 1.hrnn or whom will quit by tho encl or th<1 y<Htr. (I know this f'rom nxpt\rinncn.) I said hi lO sornn of' Lim rnturnnns and a coup IP of tlw man­ag<•rs. and th<m join<'d up with a coupln of' f'rinnds to quintly lwcklc thn wnlconw spnnch. 
It was, strang<'ly. probably thn high point of my day. My roommaln wasn't lwrn yet, and I hadn't had a chance to find many pnopln I knnw. So this was my first chancn to s<H' a bunch of prnipln I knmv and lik1\cl. 
!\s I lnft tlrn dining hall that night, I startnd thinking about llw niche prob!Pm again. \nd then it clawnPcl on m<1. Tlw dining hall is my niclw. It's wlrnrn I am comfortable, It's wlwrn I know all tlw rnturrwns and manag<'rs. It's wlrnrn I know all tlw i11sid1• jok1•s. I am lltl\\. IIIH' of tlios<· \'l'(Pr;1ns 
who has 1·unnv slori1•s about 1.wopll' who an· gone• tc1 (I'll 
youngPr nwmlwrs. This is 111!· nil'lw. 
This sounds strang<•. I kno\\. Yo11 ,II.(' prob,1 bl.\ lhi11ki11g lo yoursPlf, "Whal kind of' nidw is that'! You do dislw:-.. l'!l'all up al't<'r olh<'r studPnls and dPal with l'rn1d a lul. 1111\\ <'an you Pnjoy that'!" 
I Pnjoy it lwcausP of lht• 1woplt>. Nol just llw sllldPnts \\trrk­Prs, but tlw f'ull-linw \\'orkPrs as ,wll. Sun·. 1lwl<' d11i11g dislH's as much as tlw nt•xt pnrson. Hut ii' I'd nPv1•r workt•d bark on tlw dish li111•. I would t1P\'PI' ha\'I' nwl \\'altl'r, \\ho's this 1·<1ally warm. ni,·<'. J'u1111_, guy. II' I didn't \\'ork do\\'nstairs. I'd n<•n•r haV(' nwl I.PSLPI', \\ho's ,il\\'H.\'S lrnpp\· lo Sf'<• 1111', always lll'lps nm g<'L \\'hat l n<•Pd and gi,·1·s 111<' high-li,·<'s whl'n<ivp1· lw hasn't Sl'l'JJ m1• l'or il\\hill'. If' I didn't work in the (,rab'n'(;o, I would IH'V<'r hmP 11wl BPtlil'. \\ho alwav~ has a hug l'or ll11' and who I (·01-rPspondt•cl with o\t•r tlw ·sum­nrnr. 
l'vP mPl a lot of intPrPs\ing 1wopl1•. TlwrP's rnw man \\'ho works in tlw bark who is an irnmigranl l'rom ViP111am. I It• was studying to bP a lawyPr wlwn th1• war start<)d and lw lost his youth to that war. !\i't<•r llw war. ii<' im111igr,tl<•d 111 tlw U.S.. and now h1) worb in our dining hall. 1 lwl you did11·1 know anyo1w so intPrnsting workPcl back tlwrP! 
Tlw sludP11L w11rk .. rs 111'!! p1·ptty i11tPn·sling. to()..\ho11t <J:i percent of tlw pPoplP I know wh(l an· min(lrity st11rl<·11ts. I know f'rom tlw dining hall This is also wlwrr• I mPL K;itif'. originator ol' two l'amous stal<•m1•nls 1) "I ma~' ,rnrk in tlw dining hall but 1·111 not dirt!" ,111d 2) Tor<' is \dl!'r<' :,·ou n•ad books and talk about your l'iiildhood.'' It's wh<Tf' I 1111'1 rvlikc•. tlw man who invPntPd tlw <'OIH'<!pt that ii' you arl' l'urrnv. you don't havP to do work. 
J'vP m1\l a lot of otlwr grt\ilt !lf'(l)ll<' at llw dining hall. but I can't dnsc:rilw tlwm all. I gunss tlw point()[' this who!!' arti­dn, if I could <WPr rl'ally Im said to have u poi11l. is that tlwn• rnally is a nidw out tlwrP l'iir t'V(\ry111w. It just might 11111. IH' wh1\r<' you would expnc·t. 
ivfarlayno Soenrwker's column a/Jfwars <'f'<'l',1/ olh<'r Wedrwscfoy. 7he uiel(!s <'XPl'<'SS<'cl in this <·r1/u111n arr· !host' '!/'f lw (111//wr and not necessarily thos<' '!/'The 0/i:Wl'l'<'r. 
DILBERT 
I'M GOING TO 
FOLLOW TOM 
PETERS' ADVICE 
AND BECOME MY OWN BRAND. 

I] E 
0 
CJ 
t: 
Q) .0 

SCOTT ADAMS 
THE PHRASE YOU'RE LEAST LIKELY TO HEAR IS, "I GOTTA GET ME SOME OF THAT." 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Sponges grow in the ocean. I wonder how much deeper the ocean would be (/'that didn 'l happen." 
Steven Wright humorist 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Wednesday, August 30, 2000 BSERVER page 11 
GUEST COLUMN 
Tuning in on the 
Republican 
Convention 
CltATTANOOGA, Tenn. 
"They have had their chance. They have not led. We will." That was the theme of Governor George W. Bush ·s accep­tance speech at the Republican National Convention in Philadelphia. He also commented "so much promise to no great purpose," referring to the Clinton-Gore administration and their lack of leadership over the lasl eight years. Catherine 
This administration has presided 
Middleton 

over one of the gnmtest economic booms in our country's history, yet there arn so many things they haven't The University accomplished. Social Security is still Echo bankrupt, our health care crisis con­tinues, and just last month Clinton vetoed the removal oft.he "marriage-tax penalty." (For those of you unfamiliar with this phenomenon, married couples filing jointly pay a higher tax than if they were single and filed separately. It basically punishes you for getting mar­ried.) 
Many people expected Bush to attack Clinton. but I thought the speech was rather mild. He made the expected references to a lack of character in the White House, as did vice-presidential nominee Dick Cheney, but they were rather veiled. Primarily, Bush took the opportunity to introduce himself to voters. 
Ile described his childhood, his marriage to Laura, their children, etc. He also laid out goals for his administration which included increased pay for members of the armed 14.irces (the number of armed services members who receive food stamps is staggering), giving private insurance tax credits for lower-income people and reducing the tax rate from 15 percent to 10 percent on the lower-income brack­ets. 
From the very beginning of the convention, there were comments about the radal makeup of the convention dele­gatr.s, participants and speakers. The Republican Party is not known for its diversity. but that is beginning to change. Locally, an African-American man, Johnny Horne, is the Republican nominee against Democrat Brenda Turner for State Jfopresentative. The national convention attempted to rcf1ect the increasing role o!' minority groups in the Hepublican Party. 
They say in politics that no matter what you do, you'll manage to offend someone, and that was definitely the case at the convention. Republicans are called the party of "old, rich white guys," and sometimes that seems to be true. The average delegate was a 47-year-old white male. However, the youngest delegate was 19 and there were more minority delegates than ever before. 
This is not to say that we're getting the support of the NAACP just yet (although after the anti-Semitic comments by the chairman of the Dallas, Texas NAACP about Democratic VP candidate Joseph Lieberman, I'm not sure I'd want their support). 
The nepublicans were accused of "trotting out the token minority" by having former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Colin Powell {widely discussed as possible Secretary of State in a Bush Administration) as headline speaker the first night of the convention. In my opinion, this was an unfair comment. 
There were several minority speakers, including Congressman J.C. Watts, an African-American minister from the Philadelphia area and an openly gay congressman. The speaker I was most impressed with, however, was Condoleezza Rice. She spoke before Sen. John McCain on Tuesday night. 
Although she is unknown to many voters, she is an expert on Hussian politics and is George W. Bush's foreign policy advisor. ShP is expected to be named as National Security Advisor and to the best of my knowledge, would be the first African-American woman to hold that post. 
The Democratic National Convention was two weeks ago in Los Angeles. where the party nominated Joe Lieberman as its vice-prPsid,mtial candidate. Al Gore receivPd a large bounce in the polls after the Convention, making it a statisti­cal dead heat according to the latest poll numbers. Labor Day weekend is traditionally the beginning of the final strntch to the Presidency, and it appears to be getting inter­esting. Stay tuned ... 
This column first appeared in the University ofTennessee, Chattanoo_qa newspaper, The University Reho, on J\ugusl 28, 2000. and is reprinted here courtesy ofU-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Continuing the mission of the CSC 
I invite you to rcfler,t on the importance of personal and com­munity-based passion and mission as we begin this academic year. 
Four years ago at the com­mence­ment cer­
Don McNeil!

emony in the JACC, Sr. Helen For a More Prejean, 
Just and 

CSJ (of 
Humane

Dead 
World

Man Walking book/movie fame) concluded her powerful talk after receiving the Laetare Medal with the words, "May you he blessed with passion and may you follow it all your life." She returned to Notre Dame and DeBartolo a few months ago to a standing room only crowd and amrmed the importance of passion and our call to our com­munity-based mission of "loving tenderly, acting justly and walking humbly with God" (Micah 6). 
During the past 12 days, I have experienced events which are energizing and encouraging for me as executive director of the Center for Social Concerns. In the next few days, I anticipate an ini­tiative which is very challenging. This spring we at the CSC worked hard as a staff and with students, faculty, alumni and other con­stituents to revise our mission statement as part of a compre­hensive strategic planning process. I am grateful to share these brief and personal reflec­tions on how our mission is more than words and is being lived out passionately by many in our com­munity as I write to you. 
Our mission statement is as fol­lows: Rooted in the Gospel and Catholic social tradition, the Center for Social Concerns of the University of Notre Dame creates formative educational and service experiences in collaboration with diverse partners, calling us all to action for a more just and humane world. 
This past Saturday morning, I celebrated with the more than 200 students and collaborators who participated in Summer Service Projects, discussing the way their passions were engaged during the eight weeks nationally and internationally in service­leo.rning. With readings, journals and written reflections over the summer, they discovered how their "formative eductional and service experiences" were "rooted in the Gospel and Catholic social tradition." A few days before in our Theology seminar with SSP returnees, I relished the way stu­dents responded to the video of Sr. Helen Prejean's talk and relat­ed it to the passions and collabo­ration of "many diverse partners" who made their service experi­ences possible. 
On Thursday afternoon, August 24th, over 100 First Year students gathered in our Center Multipurpose Room with their professors for a new course 
initiative. They will be able to incorporate comm unity-based learning opportuni­ties in the South Bend community into their First Year Composition writing course because of the collaboration of four groups: Oflice of First Year of Studies, First Year Writing Program, agencies in the South Bend area, and our own Center. I was especially pleased to share the enthusiasm of two First Year stu­dents in McGlinn Hall who expressed their appre­ciation for the opportu­nity and for the passion of their profes­sors for this challenge. 
I am also anticipating my joy at Activities Night to see many options in the area of social concerns and ser­vice in the midst of other invitations for you students to share your gifts with the Hall, campus and off­Neighborhood, which has includ­ed "many diverse partners," on and off campus. The CSC has wel­comed the initiative to be deeply involved in this effort to have out the best of our ND mission to be collaborative and sensitive to our "neighbors." 
This past Sunday, August 27th, 

I participated in a special 
Eucharistic Celebration in the African-American parish of St. Agatha in North Lawndale (Chicago). Fr. Mike Ivers, who was a dynamic speaker at the conference last February, "Reconciliation and Renewal in the Cities: Faith-Based Initiatives," was leaving the vibrant parish community after 12 years of shared ministry. In his homily, he asked those of us 
with Notre Dame connections to stand. As I looked at our current Notre Dame African-American students, other students and alumni who learned so much from Mike and the "diverse part­ners of St. Agatha," I was moved to tears with gratitude. 
Many Notre Dame alumni of St. Agatha had trans­
formative experi­ences and will con­tinue to on SSPs and 
Urban Plunges. 
Thanks for your interest. We of the CSC welcome your 
• 
ideas, suggestions, passions and sharing in our mission. 

,...;~tl~~?,~1.~~ Father Don McNeil!,
CSC, ND '58, is Executive Director ofthe Center for Social Concerns. a priest of 

campus possibilities. It is encouraging that all received by mail the listings of the multiple Social Concerns Seminar offerings during breaks which often complement other CSC programs in "calling us all to action for a more just and humane world." 
I am grateful that a press con­ference on Thursday will clarify a new program, called New Initiative in the Northeast 
the Congregation ofHoly Cross. and a resident in McGlinn Hall. 
The CSC's column appears every other Wednesday. Please contact us at the CSC by email ND.ndcntrsc.l@nd.edu or call 1­5293for more information about the CSC. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Want to see vour natvte in print? Write a "letter to the Editor''! ot, server.viewpo in+.1 e,ntJ.etJ u 

V I D M E s 

\X'cdnesday, August .rn, 2000 
---------------::::--::-:::----:::===============---===-=:-========================--=-:.:.·::.-..:-:....:::.-..:-:....:::.-..:-=-=-======================= 


Games seduce the strongest of men 
\\ hl'1·1•. oli wlwr,•. lrn\·1• nil 1>111111' 11r!' ablP to f'[tl(fl' th<' th1• l>n\"s g111w'' vidPo gaml' crazr>. Sorin !'l'Si­Oil wht>n•. oil \\ l11•r1• f'illl Llw,· d,•ntial assistant \lid1al'l lw'' . Camplwll lrns lwronw immu1H' 
\\'ill1 llwir joystirks in hand. Iii tht• "nazy. 
\p\'l'I" 1·om1wtitiv1•. and P1110lio11al" Sl'!'ll Oil 1ialt1!'(' ol' thl'sP c·onlPsts bv 
'\1111"1' llallll' WPatltPring oul tlw storm ·a11d 
lnnd. ('Olll'!'nlrating on mort• impor­
\\'lwn•, oh tant aspc•cts of studP.nt lift•. whPl'l' ran Junior Brian c;rav has also Ihn· Ill''' obsPrvl'ff tlw pand;•monium of' 
r,;"11tin•: rirnlry. (;ray n•portl'd. "TIH'n' Tlwn• nrl' an• guys that play. and guys s1•1·,•r,il that don't. Sonw ol' tlw p!•oplc gll\'S llliSS· that play. they can get scary." ing in What fa('.tors nourish this artion l'ro111 obs(ission i~ 01instinnabl1i, tlw i\otri• Spl'n<'Pr BPg~ •tributes his Da11w t·;i111-suscc'ptibility u..he illness as p11s Tl11• lwing" a huntm--cavcman i'PW Ill!' 11 thing." Quake 3, a first pPrson )'('('ll\'('J'l'd shooting game. satisfips his ha,·p sulTPrl'd f'rom watPn' primary instirn-ts. Tlw only 1'\t'S. UIHil'rP.\pOSlll"I' lo Sl~ll­adrnntagP to BPggis ganw ligh!. dPpri,ation of slP1'p, 1111<1 playing must lw that lw dtH'S tln1111li 1•xlwuslio11. not hav,• to takP ho111<• anv rar-
Surprising!). tlwsP mall's an• 1·assPs lo skin. \lost guys·. not \11.-\s who ha,•p J"a[IPn inlo though. ac·knm, IPdg<' Iha t tlw hands of' torturous PIH'· vidl'o ganws monopoliZP lhPir mil's. l!atlH•r tlws,• rhaps lrnV(' ti nw IH·i·ausP of' tlw m incl IPss su1·1·u111lwd Lil Ill!· warping and distracting natun' or tlw \\'tl)'S ul ('lllPrtainnwnt. /\dvPrs,.Jv, 
vic!Po ganws. Th!' pr,•scrilwd vidPo ganw r,,vPr lwlps 1·0 cun• tortun• is wwnding hours of' otlwr illnPSSPS such as an1tP sitting in front of a tPIPvision llor!'dom and strPss f'rom finals playing tlw same• ganw until in W<'('K. sf'ls l11tal mind numlmPss. OllH•r su1T1•n•rs of" tlw svn­
Tilt> ill1wss is cnntagious. drnm,· prp('pr ganws likP -"Blitz O'f\,•ill rPsid,•11t Bobbv (;ol'dPrt 2000". "(;ofdt'!WVf'". n•p111'ls that 70 !)1'1'('.l';ll or his "Vigilanl!i", "Toiiy llawk's dorm matPs possPss a ganw SkatPlrnarding" or "Mario s~·sll'lll ThrP1' oul ol' livP Kart". Basicallv, anv vidPo rooms in Sorin llall ar<' divPrsion dPali;1g with things PquippPd similarly. Tlw prPs-thal blow up. vehicl<'s that am 1•11n• 111' a ga1111• syslPm spPPd-lightning fasL. or innt•asl'S llw likPlihood Ill' a Pntrails-covPrl'd splwrical vidl'o ganu• obs!'ssion infrc­objPt:ts pronrntPs vidtw lion. ganw mad1wss. 
1:pid,,mirs l's1wrially bn•ak Tlw af'lliction is 1wn!liar in DUI wh1'11 tlw wintl'r arrivPs. its prl'i'Pn'll('P to affPrl tlw Th11s1• pP11plP with mild symp· rnal1•s cPnlral 1wrvous svst,•m !u111s ol' till' malady quirkly rallwr than tl10sP or llw · Psc-ala!1• to l'ull-hlown obsPS· fpmalt!S. YPt. orcasionallv a sion. l'PmmP is inl'Prt(•d. \'ario~1s 
t:0111111011 roonh. to \\'hil'h ladil's in Pangborn aml \-Valsh Parh spc·tionfs l'!'sidPnls gravi­!fall do boastof'owninga tal<'. lu•comP tlH' lir(•t>ding vidPo ganw systPm. Walsh gr<HIIHI for till' inl'1•1·tion sPnior Tiara .fl'ffPrso11 Cn1111111111il\ rnoms in n•v(•al1•d that l'!iicas ar1• nol \l11rrissPy." ,\lllln11i. "in1o tlll' shool 'pm up gaml's." 
Sorin. 1-.:nott and f,,;pt1ugh Hat!wr. mos! popular among d11rruiloril's SP1•111ingl~· prn-tlw \\flllll'l1 a1•p llw "old­111011' th,• 111:ini,1 hy hosting school" ganws !ik,• "\lario tour1wrn1•111s tt, d1•1l'rn1in1• tlH· lll"lltlwrs". "\lario Kart". 1·idc•n guru of' Pac-Ii ri•sp1•1·1 i,·t• ''l)onk<'_\. hong" and "TP!ris" hull. Tht• wi11n1•1· or ('ilf'il ('!llll· ga11ws. 1w1itin11 l'l'!'l'h·Ps rPSj)l'('l and Tlw plagw• ol' ,id1•0 gillnt• acl111irntit111 1·n1111 his l'Pllol\" n•s­ohSl'SSi'Oll 1·011tillll!'S lo SW!'l'f) irl1•11ts and ,·11111pa11i11n ,it-1irns arrns... thl' \otn· Dnn11· {'Hill­111" inl"irmil1. pus. ,·!aiming thousands of' 
\iclt'I! galllP oiJ..,l'ssi1111 i:--1101 nwn and w11m1•11. t ntil H c'III'<' a ll<'\\-l',111){l1•d ,·1111t·1•pl . .John is l'ouncl. tlw madrwss will ))N· l'.riks1•11, ,,,1 a11111IJ1•r 1irtilll to sist in its illl.Plllpl Lo ('OITUpl lh1• 111:ini:1 :ind ii i-:Po11gh ,il111n. f'\'t•rv ;ililt• hod,·. r1·11wnillt'r'"> tlws,· manly pur· 111'~\'cll'l', lw\\"0,tr1·. s1tih ,ii' 11pp11si1i11n !11sti11g f'11r dais 1111 t•tHI. "You trn,·,, to Thi' ri1'11's <'XfJ/'/'ss1•d in Ihis t111~li•rsta11d tllllt tl11•sl' ga111Ps ni/1111111 art' tfw:w of the wllhor ... 1,c~ .1·ou in fl'sjust lwrd not ml£{ nu/ 11,•r·,,s.wiril!f /ho.<;<• r!( to pl.i~ .. Ilie Ohsr'/'l'r•r 
:-.om" stud1•11ts ill \111r" 

Interested in writing for Scene? Come to an informative meeting Sunday, September 3 
4:00 pm in the basement of SDH 

l'rolilssor X. Charl1•s Xa,iPr to right out of' 1111• X-\11'11 rnrtoon.
By JOSE CUELLAR 

all non-X-MPn l'ans, sta~·s in tlw \ly only proll!Pm wilh 1111• gamf'
Sn:nL· Video ( ~amt Revitwcr 
baf'kground and aC'ts as your was ('Olllrol. I sp<'11t hours in tlw trainPr. Tlwy all haw tlwir indi­acad<'lll:V mod,· with rn:,· l',l\'flf'ilt•Tlw X-:Vl('ll haV(' dorw it vidual powPrs al l'ull strPnglh X-\lan !rard throwing (;ambit)again. Af"LPr a sumnwr block­
and t!w combos, wlwn ('X!'('U!l•d. and 1'\.'!'ll whl'll I l'Ot1ld do his
buslPr movin, Tlw X-:vlPn hawd offors pl!~nty ol' nyp candy fhr X-sup<'r mows (<llll' rnlli•d tlw :;~
followPd that succPss with a 1\lt•n fans. card draw. my pPrs!1n,il
1ww vidno ganw, "X-MPn: When you start liw ganw, you fovoritP) it \Nas hard to rt'!T<'HIP
l\lutant Aradmny". Otw is used gPt th!' choin• lwtwnPn SPVPral tlw l'ombinalion wh<'n I was 
to sPeing Llw X-Men in ganws 
modes. 01w-on-01w ('ombal is fighting it out in lhP arrad<'
lik<' "Marv!'! Vs. Capcnm" in 
found in tlw mode•.
which charartt•rs or th(\ Marvd arcadP rnodl'. I SfH'lll mostLniwrsP fight it out in tPams of' 
/\caclnmy {Ir tlw tinlf'
thn•<' against otlwr LPams in ll1<' mod<' lakPs using simplP\larvc•I univcrsP and nv1•11 sonrn you to th(i c-0111hi11ati{)nsthat app1',tr in Capcnm ganrns. 
hasPnwnt of' !11 Will. /\[ ()!l('
No ont• can l'orgl'l tlw only 
Prol'Pssor X's point I got so
purP X-MPn lighting gamP "X­mansion and dl'Sjl<'ntl<' tlial\IPn: ChilclrPn of' tht• Atom". 
u11 d1! r l hP I llf•gan play­
FPw of us will rPmPmbPr thti 
supPrvision of' ing lik1• my lit­
Olli' arcadn gamP in which you l'ro f'psso r X tIP sistn. Iand your fivP dosPst friPmls and C:PrPbro. tltrr•\\ do\\'11
n1uld play at till' samP timP you !Pam all m:-,• l'llll!l'lllfPr
against i\lag1wt11 ,11HI his mi11io11 
tilt' 1110\'l'S fi1r 111 l lt1• l"!ll()J"
as llll<' ol' !lw \-l\fon. Although iL your f'avoriu• and 
was rool to watch tlw ganw in I' hara rt Pr. pn•ssi11g 1•,1•1·~two s1T('t'ns. ".\-'\ll'n: l\lutanl 1-.:t'Pping ,vith tlw school <'lll'i· bulto11 at rand{)lll. It \\as tlwn.\rad<'m~-·· brings thP fi•P! ol' tlw run1111'nt. you ••vi•n g<'t a grndP. that I li11ally g()t (;,11nbil's s111H·r
arrndP into your l'la:vStalion and 
Survival rno<IP is a rPal drnl­mt 1\'(' to work. (;, ll)d grif'll
for this n•1·ip\\'PI'. a I'.{-irwh t,,Jr,. 
lt·ng,• and should only hf' pil"kl'd ({)nlrnl as1d,·. I rPally likPdvision. 
onrt• you an' a S!'.tson,·d lighh-r this ganll'. I am also a !Jig l'an ol'
"X-i\11·n· \111tant .-\ntdPmy" 
or until llw tip ol' :,·our thurnlls !lw graphil"s that ''"n' (ip,•pj.
girns you th,• option ol' playing rnn \\"ithslancl ,1 dirP1·t lla!ll('. llfll'd 1'11r tlw ganw..\II till' t·lwr­
as OIH' of' tlw X-\:lPn or l'V!'ll as 
C,•rr•llrn l\lod.-is lllH' of' llw ach•rs an' in '.ll> and tlw back­111w of' thf, villains lh1111 1111~ X· bnst additii111s lo any IJJJ!' ol' drops, l'Vl'll though tlwv an• in
\IPn moviP. Orw {'Hll c-h11os1• 
~allll'. It contains f'ull 111oti1111 llJ. :ti'!' right out ol' t!H' n1111if".
lw t Wt'!' n \\'ol \'I' ri 11!'. St II rm. 
vickos 11·:\lVs) or P1Ld1 \-1\Jpn \-~IPn knm,-it-alls will r1'i.ill_1
Lyrlops, .lt'illl 1;n•y (as Till' 
otwP llwy linislwd tlwir training likP Storm's :\!'\\' York S<'l\'<'I'
l'h1H'nixl. Sulwrtooth, load. 
in arnckm~' mod!', It also !'Pa· hat·kdrop. l'hoP11ix's 11w11n IHIS('\lysliqu1• 111Hl P\'t'!l till' l\1aslPr of' tu1·1\s tl11• lrailN l'i,r tlw \-i\1,,11 and Carnhil's d,·rk. d1•1•p i11i\lag1wlism ,1.k.11. \lag11Plo. 
moviP and srn1H• clrnwing..., f'rom bayou 1·011111 ry.
h:<·Pping trun to tlw 11 ioviP. 1.lrn 
tlw rnmir books. Tlw tr.iil,•r is \\'hilt· I did 1'11j11_1 Ill<' g;imc•
progra nrnwrs at l'a radox P\'1'11 
tlw only Oil!' lhal is unlnckPd.­and would rPt'OllllllPtHI it 111
indud1•d tlw moYil' rost.unws. 
Llw n•sl haVI' lo lw 11nlorkPd PVPr.vo1w. I wish that it wt>rl'
Two m11r1• X-\11•11. not in tlw af"t,•r hours and hours or play. I PasiPr lll 1·011trnl. ()vp1•all. this
moviP but PX1l'Plllf'ly popular. 
am still working mi that. gam,• will gi\'f' f'igltting ga1111•
\\'('!'!' acldPd to Llw rnsl. t•viiry· 
Tim 1.-\1Vs an' not till' IH'st but lhns. and X-:\11•11 rans. hours and01w's t'arnritr• Cajun. ( ;,11nbit and an• a grn.11. addition to tl11• ganw. h{)urs of' {)plic-blasting ,·njo~'­llH~ inrrnlibly hair} and smart 
Tlw voicns ol' tlw rlrnral"lcrs ani nlf'lll.
lwast. tlw !least. 


__J 
V I D 
M E s 
Wednesday, Augusr JO, 2000 page 13 
---------~__::--__::--~__:--__::--__::--__:--__:--__:--__:--__:--~__:--__:--__:--__:--__:--__:--__:--__:--__:--__:--__:--__::--~ 
"Tenchu" ninja assassins jump back onto screen 
New prequel to popular game gives hardcore fans ofgory original 
deadlier weapons, longer missions and more stealth kills 
guys/ !'ind hoss/ kill boss/ go to till' SWt'!'l­
By ADAM TURNER 
IH'X1 IPv!'I/ rPJJPat. Sonwtimc•s Pst f'ull­
\l'clll' \''1tkn t;.1111,i,..• !lcvLl'Wl'I' 
tlw mission is to slidt• through m n l i o 11 1'11<'mV dP!'PtlS<'S and assassi­virfoo ani­\\'ith all tl11•sP rwrds running n a IP· an p1·il warlord. mation that around. cl11•rki11g till• big Sunwtinws tlw o!Jjpc·tiv(• is to l'v<' OVPr I; piso d 1· 11 n P ws on <T<'PP through a stronghold to snen in a starwars.com -f'or P:;amp!t' slPal sonll'thing. '.'Jo matter game that an i1lll'l"\if'\\ with tlw kt•y grip what tlw objPdivc• is you can wasn't -it st•Pms that P\'f'r\'o!H' in lw s11rP that il will lw a bloody madf' by tlH· 1•11l1·rtai111111'11t ind.uslry is gDod limP. Squarnsof't_ trving 111 «·ash in ,,·ith a prl'­For m1·. th1· on,· thing that NPw ninja q;1Pl s111·1·1•ss \r·ti\·isinn hc1s \\as always so l'rust1·ating tools and d1•cid1•d jump on tlw prPqLH'I growing up playing vidno w 1• a p tJ n s, ha1Jd\\llgo11 Ii~ p11rchasi11g-tlw ga111Ps was that if' you 1\·nrP 1 i k P l'la\slalio11 righh lo ri•l1•as1· s1waking up on som<' u11sus­exploding tiH•·pr1·qu1•l 111 tlw million-c·opy pf' ,. l i11 g sap. ~· o u sh o II Id lw arrows, 
-.; "l Ii 11 g .. TI' 11 (' h u: Sl r• :t I l h abl1· to lakr· Uwm out with <HIP IJl()wguns. \ssassi11s". 'TP11c-lw 2: llil'lh ol' w,,11-placi;d blow. "l('t1d1u 2" and blind­tl11• Su•altli .\ssassins" is s<'l givt's yuu this oppurlunity. ing dust 
1'1111r y1•;1rs Fans ol' thl' ar<' also ill'l'11n· tlH• orig-original fin{' addi­
For those ffyou who
i 1111 I Tf'lll'lill. alrnacl\' know tions. 
\s in tlw origi-· may be 1u•wcomers lo how gr.u<'som<' Tlw com­11al. _\·,1u Illa\ Tencfrn. the name<~( thl' stPalth kills putPr arli­pil'k i>l'l\\1'1'11 arn. l'icial inl!•lligPnl't' is is vastly
the game is stealth. 
[\\'O clilTl'l'l'lll In addition to improYPd. Thl' patrols will \1uma nin_ja. tlw original stop and look around wlrnn Hi I,. i nm r u a 11 cl . \ v a 111 I'. Pa di slPalth kills. f'al'h rharart1•r thl'V stroll ovPr an assassinat­,1iril tl11'ir !l\\ll incii,idual story has thr<'<' mon• sl«'allh kills to Pd ·cohort -thus giving away 
1110dt'S. l'omp<'nsat<' for thP f'rustralion your PIPmPnt of' surprisP. Tlw 
F()r llrns«' of' \IHI \dlll ma\· lw Ill' hiding in a dark rnrrwr l'or solution: pull LhP body into a 11I•1\t·orn«•rs t·o Tt>nc·hu. 0 llw two minulPs \\hi!P vour room­cornPr. 11;im1• or tlw ganw is stPalth. mat<'s l<' 11 you wh;,t a stupid No blood, no foul'! Probablv \\ilh Pith1•r ninja. Yllll must ganw you'rp playing. Tlwn. all not, but f'or vou sPriou~ s1w,1k through 11 dilTPrPnl oJ' a suddPn. you run up and T<\nchu !'ans out Llwre. them is m as s iI I' I!' , «' Is i 11 l lw st o r y blood f'li«'s nVPl'\'\\'lll'r<'. on tlw also a mission editor includnd 
m!id<'. lraYPling rrorn plar<' lo floor. on tlw \\';tll. or on sonw with tlw ganw. allowing thosP pla1·1· throughout l'<'udal .Japan otlH•r goon. who arP most bon~d on a 011 missions hand!'d do\\'11 This ganw Saturdav f' rO Ill ~-0 ll r Ill a St I' r , I. 0 r(I has a matun· night t~
No matter what the
(;ohda. rating. kids. amuse tlwm­For tlws1• of' ~-011 ,1·h11 p<'rSP­Do11·1 IPt ol~jective is you can be snlvns bv cn•­,.PrP through tlw 11 missions morn 111_1· and a ti n g 'th<' ir
sure that it will be a 
1"11r <'ilh1•r char,11·t<'r. ,·011 an' cladd\ ('illt·h V<'rv 
own
bloody good lime.
grn11u•d a11 additional s1'\'l'll v1n1 ii' vou·n· np;·df'nst. rnissin11s Lo complPll' with tlw i·ro111 \itah. ThnsP p<1op In us,• of' Tatsu111aru. a l)D\IPrl'ul lll't·;iusl' that slulT just d<)('sn'I also hidP from tlw sunshinn. 
\111ma ninja. fh th<'r<' -kind ol' likP music ThPy bang-out in th!' _\ 111•11 1·11111·c•pt in "T1•1"hllt1 '.::" \\'Ill 1111• .Ian ar1• in L:tah is Fitzpatrick clusll•r to i111TnasP is mission oliji-1·ti,Ps. l)ifT<'l'!'nl lwy;llld nw. Th1•y lwlong back tlwir dark powprs. They also 111issi1111s ha,·1• diffPrt•nt obj<'l'­in ~I'\\' OrlPans. clwrk out starwars.l'orn a lot. ti\l•s. as oppos1'd lo 1111• b,1si1· O!lwr 1·1wl 111'\\' additions to Okay, so you're probably find 'illllll' had gu,s/ kill bad lh1• llriginal inl'ludc• somP nf' going "Ah. anotlwr Obscrv<'r 


Photo courtesy of Activision 
rnview that finds no fault at all with the product in an attempt at positive PR for everyone." Actually. that's not what you're thinking. You·rn think­ing, "Why should I not buy this game? Why is this rPvic\W rambling? Is that guy sitting by the door in the dining hall going to see m<' stick this stack of cups in my bag?" Wr,11, all this and more. mv friend. !He's not really looking at you, by the way. Make a run for it.) 
I'll tell you what sincerely displeases me about this game. The graphics are tlrn same as the original. There hasn't been vast improvement in any department really. Some things are different, but by no means is it a tremtrndous change. I think they blew their graphics budget on the open­ing full motion video sr,quence. 
On top of that. some of the stage paths are not only hard to follow, but almost annoying­ly impossible. Example: 1 spPnl onc hour on first level looking for hole in ceiling. l brokP llw sign pointing to tbP hol<' and I was lost. Which makcs mP stu­pid. but it is hard to follow al tinws. 
Anotlwr !law in the svstPm is tlw viPw. \Yhirh is just 1mfol at timPS. There is a constant nPPd to hit thP L l button to look around, even \\-hPn vou'rp not in a tight spot. · 
ThP most annoying bug I caught ',,Vas that somP1irnPs, whl'n you're right on top of' soml'onP you'rp snnaking up on and you'rt' going for th(' stPalth kill. t.lw sc.rP<>n naslws and all of a s11ddPt1 \'ou'vp passPd through tlwrn and tlH'Y star1 spurting blood PVPry­wlrnn•. 
This ticks 111<' off lwrnus<' if I'm going to spPnd the troub!P of snPaking up to tliP bad gu~·­tlw !Past tlwv ran do is sho\\· nw th1· litlll' s·tealth-kill 1110YiP. 
Tlwn t.lwrP·s tlw problr•m or tlw lnarning r·un·(•. Tlw lrarn­ing l'Ul'VP is not fast ii' you·rP unf'amiliar vvith !lw ganH'. Tlw controls takP ii bit or gPtting usnd to. sine!' l)<J pPrccnt of tlw population is still used to playing Mario Kart./\ training lPvPI allows you plPnty of opportunity to work out tlrn kinks, bu! it is still super­annoying, l)('raUSI' you don't want to IParn, vou want to play. Which is \~'hy you·rn in collr.gc in tlw lirst place, rral­ly. 
For thosr of you who arc hardcore and lik.<' your garnPs violP11I and dirty. with grnat amusPmPnt. l highly rncom­mend T1~nchu 2. For those of you who ha\'P girlf'rirncls. just 111ak1• surP to hiclP it bdorP shr conws ovPr. 
Upcoming video games... 
Nintendo 64 
Aidyn Chronicles 
Mario Tennis 
Playstation 
Chrono Cross 
Valkyrie Profile 
Playstation 2 
Madden NFL 2001 Street Fighter EX3 
Dreamcast 
Powerstone 2 

pagt· 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, August 30, 2000 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Hammonds picks up resting Helton, Rockies win 2-1 
Associated Press 
Pl 111.ADELPIIIA 
Todd Helton got some rest and Jeffrpy lfammonds picked up the slack. 
Hammonds WPnt 3-for-4. including a go-ahead RBI dou­ble in the sixth inning. as the Colorado Hockies edged the Philadelphia Phillies 2-1 Tuesday night. 
"Who needs Todd'1 ," llammonds said. jokingly. "It was a grt)at game all around and we won. That's all that counts." 
The loss was the major league-high 16th for Philadelphia's Omar Daal 13· 
16). 
Colorado took a 1-0 lead in the third when Ben Petrick scored on Juan Pierre's HBI sin­gle. 
The lead was short-lived as the Phillies tied thn game in the bottom half ol' thf' third as Doug Glanville singled home Daal. who led off with a double. 
Astros ll, Mets 1 
Wade Miller. Jeff Bagwell and the Houston Astros made it a miserable night for Al Leiter and the New York Mets. 
Miller pitched a five-hitter for his first r.omplete game in the majors. Bagwell hit his 40th 

homer and drove in three runs 
and the Astros romped past the 
Mets. 
Tony Eusebio's 24-gamc hit­ting streak came to an end. but most everything else went right for the A.-;tros. 
Piazza bad a tough day al the plate, too. in going O-for-3. In the fourth. he hit a grounder to third base and stayed in the bat­ter's box. sure he had fouled the ball off his left foot. /\fter the umpires conferred. Piazza was called out. 
The next half-inning, Ilouston's Chris Truby was called out on appeal for leaving third base early on a tag play. Truby, who drove in two runs, and Tim Bogar each had three of the Astros · 16 hits. 
Jerrod Riggan, promoted from Double-A Binghamton a day earlier. made his major league debut and pitched two innings for the Mets. The 26-year-old righty allowed two runs. both unearned. 
Dodgers 7, Brewers 2 
Chan !lo Park allowed one hit in eight innings and Mark Grudzielanek drove in four runs as the Los Angeles Dodgers beat the Milwaukee Brewers for their eighth victory in nine games. 
Park (14-8) allowed onlv James Mouton's two-out, two·­run homer in the sixth and struck out a career-high 14. 
Grudzielanek, a Milwaukee native, also tripled in the ninth and scored when llenry Blanco dropped a good relay throw from Ron Belliard al the plate. It was scored a triple and an error. 
Baynes allowed four earnfld runs. live hits and three walks. The Brewers, who fell to a sea­son-worst 19 games below .500. losl for the third time in four games. 
Reds 4, Braves 2 

Ken Griffey Jr.·s two-run sin­gle in the seventh inning put Cincinnati ahead and the Beds went on Lo a victory over the Atlanta Braves. who squan­dered a chance to break a first­place tie in the NL East. 
Javy Lopez had an RBI single in the fourth to put the Braves ahead. and Heggie Sanders hit his first homer in 39 days lead­ing olT the fifth. 
Cincinnati halved it.i:; deficit in the sixth on Dmitri Young's two­out homer over the center-field wall. Otherwise. Ashby was dominating. 
The right-hander struck out Dante Bichette swinging three straight times. and seemed like­ly to break a personal three­game losing streak until his fin• ger began hurting. 
Diamondbacks 8, Expos 7 

Greg Colbrunn homered and had three RBIs as the Arizona Diamondbacks beat the Montreal Expos. 
Colbrunn hit a two-run homer in the f'if'th and an RBI singln with one out in the seventh to break a 6-6 tie. 
After Montreal tied the game on Michael Barrett's RBI double in the sixth. Expos reliever Scott Forster (0-1) walked Tony Womack and Danny Bautista to lead off the seventh. 
Lee Stevens and Geoff Blum hit RBI singles off Geraldo Guzman in the bottom half as the Expos cut the lead to 4-2. 
Colbrunn's homer made it 6-2 in the fifth before Jose Vidro brought Montreal back to within one with a three-run homer ­his 22nd -in the bottom half. 
Guzman. who went 5 1-3 innings. allowed nine hits and six runs in his eighth start for Arizona. 
Vazquez. who hasn't won since July 23. allowed six hits and six runs in five innings. Ile struck out live and walked one. 
Marlins 3, Cardinals 1 

Chuck Smith allowed four hits in eight innings and Mike Lowell hit a two-run homer in the first to help the Florida Marlins beat the St. Louis Cardinals. 
Florida snapped the 
Cardinals' three-game winning streak and beat Pat llcntgcn (13-10). who had won his prnvi­ous three starts. 
Smith (:1-5) struck out nine. walked three and gavn up a home run to Edgar Hentoria in the srwenth. Smith. a 30-year­old rookie. had been 0-4 at home despite a 2.56 EHA. 
Antonio All'onseca pitchnd a pcrf'cr.t ninth !'or his major lcaguc-h~ading 37th save in 41 chances. 
Florida's Cliff Floyd, ar.tivated from the disabled list beforn the game. made an imnrndiate impact in the first inning. llfl singled with two outs. and Lowell followed with his 19th honrn run. 
Floyd added a sacrifir.e fly in the fifth to make the score 3-0, then left the game. lie missed 28 games with a kne11 injury. and the Marlins plan to limit his at-bats for a few gamns. 
Henteria hit his 16th home run. breaking the Cardinals' previous rcr.ord for homers by a shortstop. 15 by Solly I lcmus in 1952. 
Hentgen gave up thrne runs and Sf'Vcn hits in six innings. 
Luis Castillo singled in the fifth and swiped second for his 51st stolen baso, a career high. I le took third on Mark Kotsay's infield hit and scored on Floyd's Oyout. 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.111. to 3 \un. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.111. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to nlit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP· MENT CENTER PAID & VOLUN­TEER OPPORTUNITIES 
Earn money and build resume experience with delightful young children. 
The Early Childhood Deviilopment Centers at Saint Mary's College and the Uni11ersity of Notre Dame, are currently accepting applications lrom college students for part time employment positions. The hours vary, including MWF 8:00-9:00 a.m. and MWF 11 :00 a.m. -1:30 p.m. If you are interested in applying, please contact Kari Alford, Program Director at ECDC-SMC, at 284­4693 or Thayer Kramer. Program Director at ECDC-NO 
at 631-3344 for more information and an appli­cation 
The Ea~y Childhood Development Centers are also looking for volun­teers who enjoy young children. If you would be interested in spend­ing 2 hours a week reading chil­dren's books, building with blocks, and signing songs with children. please contact ECDC-ND at 631 ·3344 or ECDC•SMC at 284· 4693. 
Officials needed for Baseball. Slow and Fast Pitch Soflball, and Flag Football 
This is a great opportunity to earn 
good money. Contact the RecSports ottice (Peter Shoop or Jett Wal~er_ @631 ·6100, or stop by the office In the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
today. You can also e-mail us at rec­sport@nd.edu 
ND prof and wife seek baoysitter In our home T·TH 9AM-1PM (later if possible). 
3 great kids, aged 7 mos 10 5 yrs. Experience/references required. Please call 
631-3654 or e-mail meissner.1@nd.edu. 

SPRINGBREAK 2001 Hiring On-Campus Reps SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH, GO FREE!l! Student Travel Services America's #1 Student Tour Operator Jamaica, Mexico, Bahamas, Europe, Florida 1-800-648-4849 www.gospringbreak.com 
$30 to $45 in two to three hours work. The American Tailgater Company is a mail order company specializing in tailgating equipment. Need people to distribute flyers before all or most home Notre Dame football games. Check us out at www.AmericanTailgater.com. E­mail Charlie at Ndflyer@AmericanTailgater.com 
Looking for a babysitter in our home. Flex hours. No Sundays. Please call 258-4115 
FOR SALE 
99VW Beetle GLS, dk. blue, 5-spd manual trans, 6 CD changer, air alloy 16" wheels, 12. 800 miles, exc. cond. &16300. 219·258-4454. 
Beautiful brass bed. queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. All new. never used, still in plastic. $235. 
River Isle exc. condo on the river in 
Mishawaka. 
Beautiful view of the river from liv­ing room, dining room, kitchen, and bdrm. Also has swimming pool, pier, sauna, e1<ercise room and club­house. Call Frank 299-1909 
Jack 257-1141/674-6593 
Condo -townhouse 2 bdrms. 1 1/2 bath w/lireplace. All updated. Must see. $69,000. Call 219-291­8601, 
1 mile from NO in quiet neighbor­hood. 2 Bedroom very clean $69,500. Call 219·264-4966. 
FOR RENT 
SOUTH BEND LODGING 
In-home B&B lodging for football games & ND-SMC events. Close to campus. Breakfast incl. 
Call 219·243-2628 
3 bdrm apt. home al 616 E. Howard St. Available immediately. Walking distance to campus. acces­sible to public transportation. $500 ea. Sec. Dep. of &250 ea. Call 289·9484 
N.D. RENTAL LAKEFRONT HOME ON MAGI­CIAN LAKE AVAILABLE WEEKLY, OR FOR WKNDS. 3 BDRMS, 1 1/2 BATHS,DECK,SCREENEDIN PORCH THIS HOME IS NIGEL Y FURNISHED AND OVERLOOKS A BEAUTIFUL LAKE AND IS CLOSE TO INDIAN GOLF COURSE. ALSO IN THE AREA ARE MANY APPLE ORCHARDS READY FOR PICK· ING. THIS HOME WILL SLEEP 6. $350 WEEKENDS $850 WEEKLY 630-964-6620 616-424-3246 
In-Home B&B FB wknds -sleep up to 8 some w/lix 2 mi N of ND 219-277-4759 
2 BDRM APTS. FOR 2000-01. ALSO LEASING FOR 2001-02. DAVE 291-2209 
ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE ADN CLOSE TO CAMPUS http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ emall:mmmrentals@ aol .com 232-2595 
Apartment for rent ND foo1ball weekends. 2 mi. from campus. Parking pass Included. Sleeps five. Call 243-0791 for into. 
2BR, 2nd fir. Apt, 525/mo. Along St. Joe River Incl. Water/SecSyst./Trash 288-2654 or 288-2788 
1 mile from ND in quiet neighbor­hood, 
2 Bedroom very clean. $69,500. Call 219-264=4966 That Pretty Place. Bed and 
Breakfast Inn has space available 
for football/parent wknds. 
5 rooms with private baths, 
$80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. 
Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418­
9487. 

TICKETS 
BUSINESS MAN NEEDS 
Nebraska tickets or season 
G.A. only. 277-1659 
ND FOOTBALL TKTS 
289-9280 

VICTORY TKTS 
BUY-SELL•TRADE 
ND FOOTBALL 
232-0964 www.victorytickets.com 
ALWAYS BUYING NEBRASKA 
271-9330 

ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED 
A.M. -232-2378 
P.M. · 288-2726 
NEED: Three tickets to Texas A&M for family. Call John, 4-2795 
NEED 2 NEBRASKA TICKETS 
WILL PAY $100 FOR EACH CALL MATT AT 4-3319 
Looking to trade Grad student ticket book for Senior tickets to sit by friends. Will pay$$. Call 287-2433 
I need tickets to the Purdue game. Will pay top $. Call Chris at 4-3094. 
Need: 3 bx for TX A&M. 2 tix for Nebraska. Call Colleen 4-1146 
ATTENTION!! I am paying $212.50 each. for NEBRASKA tickets. (219)289·8048, 
WOULD LIKE TO UY 3-5 TICKETS FOR ND-NE FOOTBALL GAME. PLEASE CALL 630-904-6418. 
THANKS 

Need 4 GA's for Stanford Chris 634=4751 Beeley.1 @nd edu Need tix · 75 Grad need 2-4 GA for 
Neb and/or Pur. Call Tony 
(714)523·3686. 

Need 1 T A&M ticket price nego­
tiable x1755 James 

Needed: 4 Nebraska tix. Call 634­
1430 

STANFORD, AIR FORCE, 
BOSTON, 
Cheap. 654-0168 

ND FOOTBALL TKTS 
251-1570 
VICTORY TKTS 
BUY*SELL'TRADE 
ND FOOTBALL 

232=0964 www.victorytickets.com 
6 NEBRASKA TIX 
(219)232-5485 

BUY/SELL ND TICKETS 273-3911 
TICKET MART 
BUY/SELUTRADE 

ALL GAMES 271-9330 
ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE 
A.M. -232-2378 
P.M. · 288-2726 

BUY/SELL N.D. FOOTBALL TICK­
ETS. HOME & AWAY GAMES. (219)289-8048. 
Two GA tix Ga Tech, Nebraska 219-287-1449 
Need 1 cheap Purdue Ticket. Call John 4·3670 
SELLING TEXAS A&M, 
$75.00 ea. 289-8048 

2 tlx for ND-Texas A&M game avail· able now!!I Call Sean at 634-1454 for more info. 
GA Ticket Available for Nebraska Game ­Sept. 9 Lower Section. 20 Yd. Line. Contact Jay: {201) 264-0262 
Selling 2 Nebraska Tix Call Val or Jena 284-4311 
Needed: 5 tickets to the A&M game. Call 243-0125 
PERSONAL 

I NEED YOUR HELP! l'M A '92 ND GRAD AND LOT MY YEARBOOK IN A FLOOD. IF YOU KNOW ANYONE WHO HAS A '92 YEARBOOK AND WOULD NOT MIND PARTING WITH IT, PLEASE CALL ME AT 830-772-5956 ORE· MAIL AT squivele@mindspring.com Thank you, Cristina Ortiz 
To Laura, the "Vixen of Vicksburg:" You and Ashley were "T-Rific" fun in Chicago! E-mail me sometime... russ@updraft.com 
Happy 21st Anne K!!! NO more 
worries! Love Nikki 

SKYDIVE Training Students for 35 Years 1 Hour North of South Bend GREAT LAKES SKYDIVERS, INC. 1-800-351-6617 www.greatlakessydivers.com 
The "strike" will be over on 
Saturday. 
Go pookiel 
And one time, at band camp ... 
Boat Club, here I come 
Come work for the Observer. 

'Cause we can sing like Christina 
Aguilera. 

Come on over, come on over baby! 
Finn, the chic magnet. 

But it could be Connelly's red hair. 
Nah. We're all sexy. 
Blue and gold m and m's. 
Katie Metz. and Becky hope 

you're havin' a fantabulous day. i 
luv you guys! 

Markus, thanks so much for letting me cry on your shoulder! luv ya! 
Bo, how many times do I have to tell you: Leave Virginia Alone! 
Hey Kelle, I don't know about you, but personally, I am sick and tired of listening to Black Elk 

AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Woodard's strong performance leads Indians in win 
Associated Press 
,\BLINGTON. Tl'X!lS 

Stc•vf' Woodard ,tllowl'd 01w r1111 and !'our hits in six innings J'or his lirsl win sin("P Mav 11. and ll11' Cl1'vt'la11d Indians ·roul­Pcl thl' TPxas ll.111g1·rs 12-1 Tuesday night. 
David SPgui. acquin'd l'rom T1·xas 011 Julv 28 f'()r 11utl1dc!Pr Hkkv !.!'Cit:,,_ and M,tnnv Harnir<'Z t'arh had two-ru;1 homl'l's J'or tlw Indians. who haVI' tab'n ovt•r 11w AL wifd­1·arcl It-ad by going 17-8 sincP \ug 2. 
In tlw l'if'th. Thonw walk1'd ,tnd St•gui hit his 1!ith honwr (If till' sPason. his l'oul'lh sine<' _j(li11i11g 1111' l11di,111.s. t() push ilw It •ad lo :i-0 
il1il>Prlo ,\l11mar had an Hill d1,ubl1• i11 l11I' ~ixt\1. In tlw s1·v­1•nth. Omar Vi:.rquPI had 11 two­run doublP. Bamirpz hil his ~-;-th honwr ol' Lill' s1•aso11, and Th t 1111 1 • 1111 m 1 • r 1 • d f'o 1· a n 1 1 -I IPaci. 
Fall Break Seminars 
October 15-20, 2000 Experiential/ Service Learning 
Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
-> Work and learn at one of 15 sites in the Appalachian region 


-> An ND tradition of service-learning 
CHILDREN & POVERTY SEMINAR 
-> Examine key children's concerns -> Focus on direct service and policy initiatives -> Site: New York City 


· c1.

CULTURAL DIVERSITY SEMINAR 
u..:u'

t+-,+;,_ -> Explore the cultural richness of Chicago 
t~ 

-> Examine issues of diversity and related concerns -> Co-sponsored with Multicultural Student Programs 

and Services 

WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Theme: International Humanitarian Issues 
-> Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. -> Service and political awareness opportunities 
All seminars offer one academic credit 

SOCIAL 

Applications Available Now at the CSC CONCERNS Applications Due: Thursday, September 7, 2000 
HPlievpr Frnnrisco Cordnro allow1,d livo runs and !'our hits in 1 ~-3 innings. 
Tigers 12, Orioles 2 
llnan l'alrnnr hom<)rnd and drovt• in !'our runs to back an ,,!Tr1·liv1· pilch ing pt' 1·1'ormance 
bv Jdf' W1•avrr  as  the lklroit  
·r"igPrs  b1iat  Lim  Baltimorn  
Orioll's  

Bobbv I!igginson and Dusty Allen also homr•rcd. and .Juan Encarnacion had four hits f'or thP Tig<'rs. IL was 1\llrn's first major 1!1agu(' horner 
TIH~ Tigers pu[lt·d awav in the third. Juan Cnnzal<•z singled in a run bnl'or<' Palm,•r hit an 0-2 pitch into tlw lnft-fiPld scats. One' out Lttc1·. Cruz c-hasncl i>arrish with a doubl<'. 
Tlw barrngn 1·011lim1nd in tlw !'1iunh. wlwn l'alrnrr hit an HBl singl1· off Jason Johnson to makl' i.t 7-1. hncarnacion sin­gll'd in Lwo runs in tlw lillh. 
llichards honwrr•d in thr -;rv­rn th. 
Higginson hit his 2Sth homer. a two-run drivr, in the nighth. Allen homered uff Chuck \1r.rlroy' in thr ninth. 
Red Sox 8, Devil Rays 0 
P!idro Marlinnz canw within lhrc·r outs of his first carm•1· no­hittor, leading thr Boston Hed Sox to a brawl-rilled win ovtff tlw Tampa Bay D1wil Bays. 
Aft,,r hilling lc1tdofI man (;,,raid Williams in thr first inning with his l'ourth pitch of th(' night, Martint:z (15-4) r<'lirrd 24 in a row brl'orr John Flaherty singled to tht: righl­r'Pnter on a 2-2 pitch leading off thn ninth. 
Martin<)Z then retired bis next thrf'P battl'rs. l1nishing with th1~ third orw-hittor of' his career. 
"I don't reallv carr. I've achirYPd rnougl;," MartinPl said. when asked ii" he was dis­appointnd. 
"l'vp had 1'110ugli a1:hiovc•­nwnt in my <·arrPr. A no-hittrr is nnl what's going lo dictatr 
what kind or pitcher I am. I think mv career is morn inter­esting than one ganw." 
Davi; Eiland (2-2). Tampa Bay's starting pitcher, and coach Bill Russell. who became acting manager following Hot.hschi\d's ejection. worn tossed in the third aftnr Eiland hit Daubach and Nomar Garciaparra with pitcllf's. 
Daubach hit thn dirt avoiding a high and inside pitch. then was hit on the next pitrh. Aftf'r Everett doubled. Garciaparra. was hit in the bark and Eiland was ejectrd. 
Cory Lidl1, was Pjected in the seventh aftnr throwing a pitch bohind Daubach and coach Jose Cardenal was tossr.d because he was acting manag­er. Tony Fiore relirwcc!, thrnw an insl°df' pitrh to Daubach, then hit him with his second pitch. 
Both b0nches emptied. but there were no punf'.hns thrown. Williams came out of Tampa 13av·s cluhhousr and ran bark on the field, in front of the Devil Hays' dugout. 
\'aughn was 1•jecled by plate umpire Phil Cuzzi in thr, bottom of' the seventh inning for argu­ing balls and strikos after Martinnz. who was working on a no-hit bid. thrrw a callrd third strike bv him. 
Eiland allo~ed two runs and 

livr hits in two-plus innings. 
Royals 7, Twins 3 
Blake Stein allowed fivf' hits 

Prayer. 

Friends. 
lnte 
EYery Wednesday 10pm Walsh Chapel 
in (, 2-3 innings and the Kansas City Hoyals used two big innings to beat the Minnesota Twins. 
Miko SwePnev had a two-run double in a f'our-run third inning off J.C. Homnro {2-4), and .formaine Dye addnd a two­run double in three-run !ifth. 
Sweeney's hit extendod his hitting streak Lo 1!i games and tiPd him with GcorgP BrPtt for the fourth most llBls in a sea­son for Kansas Citv with 118. 
The game was playrd in J'ront of 11,931 fans. a season-low for the Royals. 
Stein (5-:l) cruised through the f'irst six innings, giving up only throe hits and never facing morn than four battPrs in an inning. Bui he gan up solo homn runs to Matt Lawton and Corey Koskie in the scvnnth brforc being rclievr,d bv Kris 
Wilson. , The Twins took the'. lead in ilrn Sl'cond inning wlwn Koskie singled with two outs, stole ser­on d and scored on Torii [lunter's HBI singlr. Kansas City took the lend with four runs in the third. l!Pc·tor Ortiz led off with a walk and Wilson Delgado followed with a 
single. Bev Sanchez was hit bv a pitch. loi°tding the bases. · Sweeney then doubled to 
right field. Ortiz and DPlgado scored on the hit and Sanchez ramn across when Lawton ·s throw from right liPld got away from second baseman Jav Canizaro l'or an error. · 

(lMPUStv11Nl5TRY 
r-----------:------~------­
page 16 The Observer. SPORTS Wednesday, August 30, 2000 
OLYMPICS 

Track twins look for combined win 
Associated Press 
HRISBANE 
They think, talk, act and run alike -and they're making his­tory together. 
They're the IIarrison brothers -Alvin and Calvin -the first twins tu make a U.S Olympic track team. 
"We've already made history by being the first twins on the tnam. now we want to add to it." Alvin said. 
They will get that oppnrtunily at Sydnny. hoping to run in the 1.bO0-meter relay final, win gold medals and break the world record. 
Alvin is virtually assured a place on the relay team. after finishing second to Michael Johnson in the 400 meters at the Olympic trials in Sacramento, Calif., last month. Calvin was fifth at the trials and he is con­tirnding with his brother, plus Johnson, third-place finisher Antonio Pettigrew and fourth­place finisher Jerome Young for a spot in the final. 
Even if the brothers don't run in the final. they would still earn gold medals if they run in pre­liminary rounds on the way to a 
U.S. victory. 
Alvin already has an Olympic gold. l le ran the second leg on the winning 1996 team that included Lamont Smith, Derek Mills and Anthuan Maybank and was timed in 2 minutes, 55. 99 seconds, the fourth-fastest in history. 
Alvin finished third at the '96 trials and fourth in the Olympic 400-meter final, while Calvin was eliminated in the semifinals at the trials. 
The relay gold still left Alvin 

..We've already made history by being the first twins on the team, now we want to add to it. ,, 
Alvin Harrison Olympic track team member 
with an empty feeling. 
"I couldn't get into my race," he said. "Virtually everything r do. I do with my brother. 
"Now, we foe! whole." 
Calvin agreed, of course. 
"We're complete," he said. "This is rndemphon." 
To consider where the identi­cal twins are now and where they were five years ago is remarkable. 
In 1995, they were homelPss and lived in a Ford Mustang coupe for about three munths. At the time. Alvin resided in Orlando. Fla.. with his father and Calvin was living in Salinas: Calif., where the brothers went to high school 
Alvin had just completed working at an assembly line plant Calvin visited him in his car. Their father wanted them to remain in Florida, hut the twins decided to head back to California. That's when the car living began. 
"That wasn't such a bad situa­tion," Calvin said. "Not as bad as people think." 
"It made our bond stronger ber,ause we seemed to be drift­ing apart then," Alvin said. "We realized we needed ear,h other for what we had planned. We realized that the assembly line wasn't for us. Living in the Mustang was an obstade we had 

ATHLETIC TRAINING & SPORTS MEDICINE 
There will be a meeting for any Notre Dame Freshmen students interested in the student athletic training program. The meeting will be held on Monday, September 4, at 7:30 p.m. in the Stadium Athletic Training Center. (Gate E -Football Stadium) 
to overcome. Everyone has to go through hardships and we had ours." 
Now. the twins earn their liv­ing through track and are in much better finandal condition. 
"We're living a lot better than in the car." Alvin said. 
Calvin has a son, JarUah. 4, and Alvin has two childnm -a son. Shrace, 2. and a daughter, Shivah. 6. ­
fhe 26-year-olds resemble each other very closely. Calvin can be distinguished by his longer goatee and earrings shaped like the letter "C." 
U.S. coach John Chaplin had trouble telling them apart at first, introducing them bv their wrong names. The brothers still tease him. 
"When he calls one of our names, the other answers," Alvin said. 
"If one wins and the other goes to the podium, you'd never know the difference," Chaplin said. 
While the twins wuld fool a lot of people by changing places, they have done it only once. That was in their senior year at Salinas High, where Calvin went to Alvin's English class and Alvin attended Calvin's science class. 
This is the second time the brothers have been on an international team together. In 1993, Alvin ran the second leg and Calvin anchored the U.S. team that won the 1,600 relay at the World Championships. 
The Olympics are much more special. 
"This is the pinnacle of any­thing we've achieved so far," Alvin said. "Calvin and I are what the Olympic Games are all about -unity and brother­hood." 
MAJOR LEAGUE BAEBALL 
Blue Jays, Rangers look to Puerto Rico 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK 
After season openers in Mexico and Japan, baseball is discussing starting next year in Puerto Rico. 
The Toronto Blue Jays and Texas Rangers are likely to open the 2001 regular sea­son in San Juan on Sunday night, April 1, several base­ball officials said Tuesday. 
"I would say it's in the dis­c ussion-of-d etails stage," 8,lue Jays general manager bord Ash said. "There's a willingness to participate. It's just a matter of getting 
·the details done." 

Toronto would be the home team in the game at Hiram Rithorn Stadium, Ash said, and the teams would play an exhibition game in Puerto 
Rico  the  previous day.  A  
decision  on  the  trip  is  
expected in a few weeks.  

ESPN could televise thn game as part of its Sundav night package. Network spokeswoman Diane Lamb said ESPN wouldn't comment until after baseball makes an official announcement. 
It would be the third straight international opener for baseball, which started the 1999 season at Monterrey, Mexico, with a 
game between San Diego and Colorado, and opened this season in Tokyo with a two­ga me series between the New York Mets and Chica.go Cubs. 
Hangers catcher Ivan Rodriguez, the 1999 American League MVP, would be the top attraction for the game. Hodriguez, who is out for the season with a broken right thumb, was born in Vega Raja, Puerto Ric:o, and lives in Rios Pedros. 
Texas infielder Luis Alkca was born in Santurce and lives in Florida. 
Toronto first baseman Carlos Delgado is from Aguadilla, Puerto Hirn. While he agreed last December to a $36 million, three-y<1ar con­tract extension, he has the right, in the 10 days after the World Series, to demand that Toronto trade him by Feb. 15. 
Last year. ba.sr,ball dis­cussed moving a three-game series between the Hangers and the Chica.go White Sox this May 10-12 to Puerto Hico. but nothing became of those talks. 
News of these negotiations originally was reported earli­er this week by The Globe and Ma.ii in Toronto. 
Got sports? Call 1-4543. 

September 1 

Debbie Ballou (Professor of Management, UNO) "OveIView of Current E-commerce Issues" 
September 15  David Overbeeke (General Manager E-business, GE Aircraft Engines)  
"Business to Business E-commerce"  
September 29  Geoff Robertson (Vice President of Engineering, mvp.com) "Starting a B2C Company"  
October6  Michael Cullinane (Chief Financial Officer, divine interVentures) "How to Value an E-business"  
October27  Rick Spurr (Senior Vice President, Entrust Technologies) "Internet Security Threats and Measures to Deal with Them"  
Colleen SullivM (Dir. of Information Systems, Alltel Communications)  
November3  "Data Warehousing and Mining for Building Business Intelligence"  
November 10  Reuben Slone (Vice President of Global E-business, Whirlpool) "Supply Chain Management"  
Cheiyl Aetterick (Manager, PrlcewaterhouseCoopers) 
November 17  "Conducting E-business Assessment"  
Dr. Anatole Gershman (Director, Andersen Consulting)  
December 1  "Emerging Trends and Technologies in E-commerce"  
AH lectures held from 10:.ioum-1:2:05pm  

,Jordan AudiLori um, Mendoza follcgc of Business i\otrc Dame foe ult~, staff.md students arc\\ clcomc lo attend thc-.e presc11t;1tio11s 
-

Wednesday, August 30, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
U.S. OPEN 
Willams begins title defense with straight sets win 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Nevnr shy. Serena Williams arriVfid in defense of her U.S. Open title resplendent in tic­dyed lilar, and blar,k, and flash­ing a pert smile that bespoke the ronfidenr.e or r,hampion. 
The r,rowd at Arthur Ashe Stadium was still buzzing from the dismissal of French Open rhamp Gustavo Kuerten, the men ·s No. 2 seed, who fell vir.tim to lanky Australian qualifier Wayn0 Arthurs· 26 ar,es in a 4-6. fl-3. 7-6 (4l. 7-6 (1) defoat. 
If' the fans thought that upset would be a prelude to another, Williams qukkly set out to dis­abuse them of that notion and any thought that her rec1:mt heel injury might hinder her. 
First she made her r.olor-coor­dinated fashion statem~mt, slow­ly perding off her lilac jacket to reveal a sh0er. flowing dress that perfoctly matr.hed hor lilac sneakers. 
"It shows how good I look. how in shape I am." Williams said with a laugh. 
Then shP made a tnnnis state­nrnnt, ripping a return winner on the first point as slrn pror,eed­ed to r,rush l 9-year-old Slovenian Tina Pisnik 6-3. G-2. 
In beginning hPr quest to 
reach the final along with her at love in the fourth game, and older sister Venus, 18-year-old once again in the second set, Serena did not display her finest ~ when Pisnik broke her at 15-40 tennis. even if it was enough to with a backhand at the net. overwhelm a player of Pisnik's But those lapses were perhaps modest ability. to be expected after Williams 
"I was not the usual Serena," missed a week to allow an she said. "It inflamed 
showed a little bit because it should  "/ was not the usual  small bone in her left  
have been a little  Serena. It showed a little  heel to calm  
quicker. Y'know. it was 59 min­utes. I'm used to  bit because it should have been a  down. The injury flared up nine  
40s and 30s now.  little quicker."  days  ago  
...  I didn't play  during her  
well today. "Actually, I was  Serena Williams  final against Martina  
expecting to feel  1999 U.S. Open champion  Hingis  in  
really spedal. I  Montreal.  
didn't. The guy  a  n  d  

that was announcing, he said, Williams cautiously retired from 'Our defending U.S. Open that match in the third set. rhamp,' and I couldn't help but There was never any danger smile. Other than that, l didn't that Pisnik would pull off an really feel it." upset like Arthurs. 
There were Limes when Once in a while, Arthurs, a Williams soared spectacularly on left-banded Australian, gets into overheads and lunging volleys, a serving groove and seems and times when she walloped unbeatable. It happened at serves at 111 mph to rack up Wimbledon last year when he four aces and six service win­held serve for 111 consecutive ners. But there were also times games through three rounds of when she found herself out of qualifying and three matches of position, when her lilac shoes the tournament before falling in got tangled up, when Pisnik four sets to eventual finalist made her look quite ordinary. Andre Agassi. 
That happened once in the This time, after a solitary first set, when Pisnik broke her break by each player in the first two sets, Arthurs and Kuerten held serve the rest of the way and let the tiebreakers decide matters. ln those. Arthurs proved dominant and he ended the affair with a 1 34 mph ace up the middle. 
Despite the urging and cries of "Guga" from Kuerten's fans, the bearded Brazilian failed to impress his gamP. on Arthurs, who first began winning the bat­tle from the baseline, then took charge of the match at the net. 
Time and again, Arthurs. best known as a doubles player, would chip Kucrten's second serve and charge the net, ready to knock off a feeble attempt at a passing shot. On his own service games, Arthurs would keep Kuerten on the defensive with his blistering serves. 
Arthurs rea~hed double match point on Kuerten's serve in the ninth game of the fourth set. Kuerten Sflrved an ace to save the first one. Ile thought he had his second straight ace on the next serve, but it was called wide. 
It made no difference. Kuerten won the next three points and held for 5-5. Two games later, they moved into a second straight tiebreaker, which Arthurs dominated, racing out to 6-0 lead. 
Kuerten won the next point, but the hole he was in was much too deep. Arthurs then pounded his final ace to complete the upset. 

Told that Kuerten was one of the favorites to win this tourna­ment, Arthurs replied, "Not any mon~." 
Kuerten became only the sec­ond No. 2 seed to lose in the first round of the U.S. Open since 1956, when the present system of seedings started. The only other time it happened was in 1994 when second-seeded Goran Ivanis1wic was ousted in his opener, Ivanisevic lost anoth­er first-round match on Tuesday. 
Kuerten was the second seed­ed player to tumble from the tournament on the second day. Earlier, No, 16 Julie Halard­Der.ugis fell to Miriam Oremans 6-3. 6-4. 
Lindsay Davenport, the 1998 women's champion, romped past Gala Leon Garcia of Spain 6-0. 6-1 in 44 minutes. 
In the fourth game of the sec­ond set, Leon Garcia, who prefers to play on clay rather than the hardcourts of' the National Tennis Center, whipped a winning forehand into the cor­ner and raised her arms in tri­umph. Two points later. she had won her first -and only ­game, breaking Davenport at 15. 
Please Recycle The Observer. 
Where can I 

Notre Daine Center 
ao lif I'm no-C: 
for Ethics and Religious Values in Business
Ca-C:hollic1 
CARDINAL O'HARA LECTURE SERIES 2000 (Evening Lecture Series) 
Speakt,r JJate, Time and Location Marina \',N. Whitman, Former Executive Tuesday, September 19, 2000 Vice President and Chief Economist of 7:00 p.m. Ciencral Motors anil currently protessor of business administration and public policy at the Universily of M.ichigan. 
Tuesday, September 26, 20()0 the Pontifical Cou.nc1! for Social 7:00 p.m. Cnmmunications. 
An:hhishop .lnhn P. f'oley, President of 
Alec Cadi. Regional Director for the Tuesday. October 3, 2000 Americ,ts. CM! (Cockerill Mechanical 7:00 p.m, Industries), and an active leader in 
discu.%ing a religious vision for business life.
Every Wednesday 
Thomas Golden. P,mner-in Charge. Tuesday. October 10. 2000
10pm 
Midwest Frnud Investigative Service, 7:00 p.m. l'riccwatcrb.ouscCoopcrs. 
Tuesday, October 24. 2000 
Anne Durke. Judge ofthe ll1irn,is
Walsh Chapel 
A ppcllale Courl. 7:00 p.m. 

Jack Breen. Chairman and CEO ofthe Tuesday. O<:tober 31. 2000 Sh,,rwin \Villiams Company. 7:00 p.m. 
Tuesday, November 14, 2000Carl Ware. Executive Vice President. Global Public Affairs and Administration 
7:00 p.m.

(DMPUSMINISTRY 
All /ecwres will be flel,I in tlut Jorilan Auditorium, Mendoza College ofBusines.s. 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, August 30, 2000 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

A&M brings changes to South Bend 
COi.l .HC:F STATION, Tnxas IU:. Slocum spt>nt sonw Linw al'tl'I" last sPason mixing ·and 
malrhing  his  'i'l'X,LS  1\&M  
oll11 ns11 ••  
!IP  addPC!  assistant  lwad  

coilrh l.arry Kirksey. with his harkground in tlw WPst Coast olT1•nsP. l'l'LP lloPn<'r gav<' up tilt' 11ffpnsivP l'llllrdina.tor's job al Iowa SlaLP to bt> thP Aggips' running backs 1·0.ich. 
Slon,m sd<•ctf•d /\fork Farris as tlw starting quarwrback and addPd spt>i'd with junior collngn wick rl'cPiv1•r Hobt·rt Fnrguson. 
"VV!''vt~ ;.{ot a IW\\ quurlcr­back and a n1'w spcondary... Slornm said. 
Slol't1!ll's 1ww ,\ggiPs dnbut Saturday in th,•ir st>ason opPrn'r against NotrP l>am<'. 
"Wn'rt• going up tlwrn to win. Mark Farris is our quarterback ,Lnd wn l'Xpcrl him to play wi•ll." Slol'um said. 
Whi!P injurins havP mountncl in tlw dPfonsiVt' li1w and sf;c­ondary. thP .-\ggil•s arP dc•pp at n'rl'iv1'r and running back going into South BPnd. Ind. 
"WP want to bf' as multipk as possiblf' and have continuity wilh our running and passing," 111'fonsivP coordinator St1\VI' Kragthorpt' said. "\VP want to 

gd the ball in "We brought in two Kragthorpc the hands of is ready to
coaches with varied
the players sec if the off­who will makn backgrounds and tried to stc~ason brain­
things hap-come up with the best storming did 
p,m anything l'or
ideas for our players."
The Aggies the Aggies r.xpr.ct Farris. offense. who gavn up a Steve Kragthorpe w 
farper in brought in
offensive coordinator
minor base­ball. and Frr_guson to hp t.vo of tbP playnrs making things happen. 
Hclurning widP receivers Chris Taylor and running backs Richard Whitaker, Ja'Mnr Toombs and Jon Weber also will be key nffPnsivc ingrPdi­Pnts for the Aggi0.s. 
"W<' havn a lot of weapons on offonsc and our size is a little better, so I think wc'rr going Lo wrn all of our receivers and hopefully mix things up a lit­tlP," Ferguson said. "Coming from junior collrgP was morn of' a mental leap for me. 
"I know l havn the ability to play hrrn I just had to pr<'parn myself to bi\ ready when I got hrre so it would bn all go." 
Taylor led the Aggies rrcPivPrs last spason with 33 catchns for 591 vards and four touchdowns, a1id his backup. Bethel Johnson. added 27 
two coaches 
with vari1\d 
backgrounds and trit>d to come up with th<\ best ideas for our playPrs." Krngthorpn said. "There am no <~gos in that room. We've' made somn subtle changns and others yclll'll sen right away." 
Farris. who replaced gradu­a.Lr.d Bandy McCown. isn't expected to l:arry a big load. In l'act. Kragthorpc insists that he docsn't try to do too much. 
"Mark doesn't have to go out with tho weight of this team on his shoulders," Kragthorpe said. "If a player feels he has to mako a lot of' big plays, ho usu­ally dofls, for the other tr.am. All Mark has to do is makr. his handolTs and hit his passes." 
Farris says lrn's ready. Ile just wishrs people would stop saying he got thA job bocausn of his maturity. I]e's 25, with live years of minor league pro basn­ball behind him. 
"You don't just pick lhn oldest 
Vanderbilt player suffers injuries 
• Hammond falls 100 feet down elevator shaft 
Associatt:tl Prc:ss; 
NASI IV!I.LE 
VandPrbilt LJnivPrsity football playPr Lu kl' 1litmmond wns in rritical rnndition Tu11sdav nl'tPr falling I{HI i'Pl't down a d,;rmito­rv PIPvator shat'L 
· II ammond. I<J. a frPsh man linPbal'kPr from MonlgomPry. :\la.. fpll Monday night tr~1ing to <·limb out of a cTowdPd 1-IPvator ,;t1ip1wd ht>IWPPn tlw ninth and I0th lloors. 
Iii' suffpn•d intPrnal injuriPs. and docttirs opPratl'd on him TuPsday morning. n·nrnving his ,pii'Pll. un ivPrsity spokc•swoman lili1.alw1ll I.all said. 
Thirt!'1•11 1wop!P \\'Pl'I' aboard 1!w c•h•valor \\'lWn iL stoppPd in Carn1id1a,•I To\\'1•r-; \V,•st. said St1•\'I' Cald\\ 1·11. d1•an nf n·sidPn­lial and judi,·ial affairs. Till• n·1·­omn11•1Hl1•d maximum ('apacit~' b 1 O J)l'Oj}it' and a sar,,ty f'pa­tlll'!' stops tlw t•ln·at11r \\'h,,n '>1•11srng an owr!oad. 
S1•\Pral pPop!P rPportt'dly l'.;r,·,·d tlw door 01wn and lla111111011d !'t>II to tlw b;tSl'llW!ll ;Ls h1• at11·1111JL1•d lo low<'r liim­,.,,r lo till' lloor twlow, Calc!WPII said. 
Tlw r••maining qud1·nt-; on th1• 1•!1•valor. ,.-ho 1·alkd univPrsit:,,· polir,• nn tlw dt'\'aLor's l'll11'r­g1'1H·_1· 1,•lf'plwn,•. Wt'rt' sal'Ply l'Pn10VPcl. 
Tlw P]Pvator \\;ts takl'n oul ol' .wrvin• for ins1wction. 
Ilammond was c·o11s1·ious and spnak111g wlll'n II!' was lrans­porl<•d t1, Vanc!Prbi!t UnivPrsity MPdirnl C1•ntPr, of'lirials said. 
The• (1-l'oot-:L :,! I '.i-pound llamnrnnd signrd with Vand!'rbilt in l;Pbruary aftPr an outstandini{ pn'p football 1:ar<H1r al Wt'lurnpk,l !Ala.i Iligh School, Llw sanw schcHil that produc,•d 

Vandnrbilt's All-SEC lincbackm·. Jamin Winborn. 
During his sPnior SP,Lson at \,Vetumpka, Hammond made more than 100 tackles and aver­aged 6. 7 yards pnr carry as the tf'am·s fullback. 
lfp was also an outstanding p<ir!'ormnr on his high school's baseball team and planned to pit,·h for Vanderbilt. 
llis rather. Warren Ilammond, playpd football at thn Univnrsity 
ol' Tcrnncssee-Martin. and he has two o]dpr brothers who played Southeastern Conf'nrence football -one at Auburn. the other at Alabama. 
Jn March 1997, another Vanderbilt freshman football player died when he foll seven stories from a dormitory win­dow. Kyle Gullahorn, 19. of' llueytown. Ala .. had hit and shattered the window aftnr an argument. 
1 drink = 1/2 oz. pure alcohol which is approximately 10 oz. of beer =4 oz. wine = l oz. 80 proof liquor 
Cornhuskers ready to kickoff 2000 
Associated Press 

I.INCOLN. Neb. 
After an eight-month layoff, top-ranknd Nrbraska is more than ready to play again. 
The Cornhuskers don't earn if it's San Jose Stale or Florida State, thoy just want to sen somebody elsP lirrnd up on tlw other side of thP ball. 
"Thern's nothing like thf' first game of the year. That's probably the most you can bn pumpnd up all yPar." said guard Buss lloc.hstnin. who is prr.paring for his linal season opmwr. "Wintnr conditioning, summer conditioning. it all kind of adds up to on!' moment. The cxcilPmcnt is unlikn anything rlsn." 
Even l'or San Josc State, a 50-point undnrdog hnading into Saturday. 
'Tm looking l'orward Lo hit­ting sonrnbody with a diffnrnnt colon~d-jnrsey on." Ilochstein said. 
The llusknrs havr,n't played since beating TnnnPsS<\P 31­21 in thn FiPsta Bowl on Jan. 
2. The win moved Nebraska 
to third in the final Al' Top 25 and snrond in the roaches· poll. Tlw,llusk!'rs are starting out this season at No. I. 
Coach Frank Solic'h snPnwd a litt1,, lwsitant whnn tlw lirst prnsPason polls canw out. but SPPnwd lo havP warnwd up to thP idna by his l'irst wnPkly 1wws conf'1~rPnc1\ 'l\wsday. 
"I takt' that on lirw and our playPrs havn acreptPd that and manv of tlwm rP!ish t.lw fact that thny'rp silting on top ol' thP polls. You 1·1•rtainly rnn­trol your own d<\sliny from thi.s point on," Solich said. "TlwrP am sonw advantagns lo it. And I prPl'Pr lo look at it from thn advantages ratlwr than tlw disaclvantagps ol' sit­ting on Lop." 
Injuries that havt• ch•plctncl tlrn defensive line in fall camp snnm to bt' !waling, although slowlv. Solich said. Nose' tack­IP .Jason l.ohr. out f'rom till' start of' fall camp with a toP injury, is practicing again. and tark!n Loran KaisPr is Pxpr1·t­e d to be readv Salurdav despitP having l;is appnndi~ removed last week. 

EMPLOYMENT 

unge Monitor 
Do you find yourself up late studying? Get paid for it!!! Work for the Student Activities Office as a 
24 Hour Lounge Monitor 
Shifts: Sun-Wed 2am-Sam Thur 2am-7am. Fri-Sat 2am-8am 1-2 shifts per week. 
Applications outside Student Actvities. Room 315 LaFortune. 
A message from PILLARS 
with Alcohol & Drug Education .J 11 La Fortune SruJenr CentL'r Univcnity al Notre Dame 
(219) 631,7970 
ht1J11//www.nd.t.Ju/-nldrur,I 
------------------------------------------------------, 
Wednesday, August 30, 2000 
7he Observer . SPORTS 
FOOTBALL 
Denman up for linebacker award 
page 19 
NFL 

Cowher avoids topic of Stewart's role 

i\otr;• ll.inw sPnior insidP li1wharkn .\ntlwnv lknman is 111w of 70 ca n<l id:Lt1•s l'o r l Ill' :woo Butkus ,\ward prPs1•nt,•d b~· Coopl'r Tirl'. Tlw award is ~iYl'll annually ln till' nation's lwsl rnllPgialP li1wbackPr b_v tlw Downtown ;\thlt•ti(" Club of Orlando. 
Thi• (,-l'ool-2. 23;;-pouncl<-r lt·d th!' Irish with :,<) solo uu·k­lPs a 'it'ason ago and also had thrPI' l'umbll' rc•1·ovPriPs. ()p11man was '\JotrP Danw's kading tarkl1·r in six ganws a yr'ar ago. 
1)1\nman was a m11mbPr of 
Football Nc•ws' all-IndPpPndent t1•am last vnar and was named NIH: Spo,:ts/Chc•vrol1!! i'l;otrr Danw MVP f'or his Pl'f'orts againsL Mkhig,tn Stat!'. 
The indPpPndnnt selection 1·111nmitll'ti. comprised ol' 28 of tlw nation's f'on•most mrdia nwmbPrs. begins rnviPwing thr, t·andidatt>s this w<'t'k and morn playPrs may bf' addf'd to thr \\atd1 list. Tlw committee will spJr,t·t 10 snmif'inalists on Oct. 
I tJ. Subs1•quPntly. tlw thrnc final­ists will bP annountTd on Nov. 
9, at Spnctatnr's Sports Bar at thP Downtown Marriott Orlando. The :woo Butkus Award winner will be announced Friday, Dec. 8. dur­ing tlw Butkus Award Gala at !lard Hock Livr at Universal Studios CityWalk. 
Last season, former Penn Stall' linebacker LaVar Arrington won the award bdore becoming thr second selection in the NFL draft. Former Butkus Award winners includr, Trev Alberts (1993­Nebraskat. PP-rcy Snow (1989­Michigan State) and Derrick Thomas (1988-Alabama). 
Associated Press 

PITTSl3UIHil I 
Bill Cowher isn ·t saying much about what benched quartPrback Kordell Stewart's role will be in the Pittsburgh Stfrn!cirs' oppnr.r Sunday against Baltimorn. 
By not saying anything, Cowher might br. saying a lo( 
Cowher tiptoed around questions Tuesday whP-thcr Sir.wart might reprisr his for­mer role of Slash now that Kent Graham has beaten him out at quarterback. 
"You don't want to rlabo­rate, obviously. for competitive reasons," Cowher said. "They have different styles. and I plan on using those styles." 
It is just as obvious tlrn Steelers don't want Stewart. one of their highest-paid play­ers, to waste away on the bench. So, just as he did while backing up Neil O'Donnell in 1995 and 1996, Stewart just might show up at wide receiv­er. Or running back. 
Or, maybe even at quarter­back, to run a series here or there, or in a long yardage sit­uation in which his scrambling ability would give offensive coordinator Kevin Gilbride another option or two. 
By returning Stewart to his 
Slash rolP, a tnam that was offensively ddk.it:nt in the! prn­snason potrntial!y !'.ould rPViVP what was an cf'frrtiv0 weapon in 199:i and 1996. 
In those sr.asons. StPwart produced 11 touchdowns despitn touching tlw ball just :~7 timns as a passnr. :,4 tinws as a rusher and ;31 timns as a rncrivl'r. 
The only dif'l'nrr.nct' bctwr,rn tlrnn and now is that Strwart had ncv0r bnon an NFL start­ing quarterback and he con­sidr.red his Slash rolr. as men~­ly part of his apprenticeship. Now that he has started, it may bi! difficult !'or him to return to thr rolr, with much enthusiasm or any hope that it might again Ir.ad to him start­ing. 
"No. that isn't my focus right now." Stewart said. "I have to study film of thn opponent as if I were thr starting quarter­back, as opposed to going out there and trying to please peo­ple and make them cherr and make them happy by playing wide receiver." 
Cheering isn't something that Stewart has heard much of the last two srasons in Three Hivers Stadium, where a fan once threw a beer on him and thP. booing began this summer with the first series of the first preseason game. 



Appalachia Sem.in..ar 
THE SE1\.1INAR 
• 
Service-learning through various sites in Appalachia, October 15-21, 2000 

• 
One credit Theology course 

• 
Involves orientation & follow-up classes 

• 
Past participants in Appalachia Seminar are encouraged to appply as Site Coordinators 

• 
Presents opportunity to work, laugh, & learn with others 


The Appalachia Seminar during Fall and Spring break presents a unique service­learning opportunity. Students travel to a variety of sites in Appalachia which focus on issues concerning rural health care, the environment, women, children, and housing construction. Through hands on work and person-to-person contacts, students experience the cultural richness of the area and begin to understand and analyze the social forces that influence the Appalachian people. 
APPLICATIONS 
Available at the Center for Social Concerns Due date: Thursday, Septen1.ber 7, 2000 10:00 an'l $40 deposit with application 
(non-refundable if accepted) 
Monday, Septc1nber 4, 7:30-8:00 pn1 @ CSC 
Steve Recupero, Student Task Force Co-Chairperson, 634-1217 Allison Reilly, Student Task Force Co-Chairperson, 243-1842 Center for Social Concerns, 631-5293 




THE VANDALS Loolc What I Almost Stepped In ... 

page 20 
Burke 
continued from page 24 
Morgantown, W.V. is a very dif­ficult plar.n to play (just ask Virginia Tech I ancr some think the Mountaineers will turn it around this scaso.n. A vnry tal­nntnd USC Loam sun1 lookod improved while they wen; trouncing l'Pnn Stat,• on Sunday. 
That would also nwan quality wins ovPr TPxas A&M. Mir.higan Stat1'. and WP might bP ab!,\ to stretch lloston Col11•gr> into a "quality win" ii' it rontinuPs to irnµrow this y,~ar. .\dd 110 ridicu­lous loss1\S as somn 111' last Vt\ar·s srwnn w1'rP. To make thP cfPei• sion touglwr. lnt's say Notrn l>anw lwats a lr>am likP TP111wss1•1· in a mid-lirr bowl to go 8-4. Would that mnlw a four­loss SPason look good Pnough'1 
'v\'hal il' Notrf' Danll' starts 4-1. th1•n t\rnaz HaltlP g-oPs down tknrwk on wood) and WP limp to a 7-4 linisll'/ It sounds far­li•tclwd hut"'•" rwcd onlv look h,1ck to l 'J98 l11 Sl'P wh,~l Imp-pens when this team is !iring on all cylinders one second and the next the quarterback is out and the offense is spultering. Would an flXcflllent start overshadow the !'act that Notre Dame still has not grnomed a. quarterback that can step in for the starter? 

These are all interesting ques­tions. What it adds up to is if it's an 8-3 sc)ason. Davie probably stays, and if it's 7-4. maybe he still stavs. If USC turns out to be a Top fo team and other teams on the schedule end up being good, 7-4 might bn deemed acceptable. 
At 7-4 it could also come down to how tlH• Fighting Irish look on tlw !fold. Will we set~ anothor norH'xistnnt pass rush or ror­1wrbarks g1'tting bP.at with tlrnir backs to the ball? Will we seP sonwthing resembling pass pro­tection'? I low about a quartor­back running IPl't and two run­ning backs running right on tlw last play ol' tlw ganw? Mnst importantly. will W<' snn a tnam play LogNlwr and inspirnd'? 
f.pl's mak1' sonwthing 1·lear. 8­3 should be tlw absolut1• mini­

f...1t~'1_ I J ~ J N. INNYN9 H. ~aHAIR MODELS NEEDED 
e) 

For Monday'sTraining Program by Licensed Professionals Call for information 
289-5080 
One mile from Campus 
Chicago Brass Quintet 
r., TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2000  
,/if  7:30 p.m. • Little Theatre  
I,  

The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, August 30, 2000 
mum to prevent a change from being made. More like 9-2. Call me old fashioned, but I like my popcorn with real butler, my panl"> without cargo pocket<; and my Notre Dame football teams winning. A four year span of 7-6, 9-3. 5-7. and 7-4 {or 7-5 per­haps) is not winning. 
It would show that seven-win seasons arc becoming more tho rule than the exception. 8-3 was a down sflason for Lou Iloltz, and the far.t that some now arc 

MASSIVE DANCE INTO THE MIX IVi THE Various Artists CLASSIX REMIXED Various Arrists 
Join Replay: 
The club that 

rewords your love of entertainment."' Ask associate for details. 
Your Entertainment Superstore 
For the store nearest you, call toll-free 1-888-60-MEDIA. 
MediaPlay.com'M Cass:~se::f~~~~~ Sale ends September 9, 2000. Pricing may vary online. 824100 4839 
,~,­
Trent Summar & The New Row Mob 
MED16PLAv· 
hoping for 8-3 goes to show how low expectations hav11 sunk. When was the last time so many Notre Dame lovers and haters alike just penciled in an "L" for a game the way they have for Nebraska'? At home no less! Somehow I think there's a bunch of alumni out there who agrne. 
In any event, isn't sprwulating run? All good things must come to an end_ though, and in just three short days we will bf' able to base our theories on some-
ZHUHIAD 

t' 
' 
1399 

MARQUES WYAn 
Sound Design Volume 1 
thing solid when Urn Irish play an actual game. 
An actual game ... finally. No more 8-3 talk. No morn Tom Coughlin talk. No more Barry Alvarez talk. 
Just tho Irish on ono sidP, and the Aggies on thn othPr. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of'I11e Observer. 




Wednesday, August 30, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 

Then ioin us Wl1rg Thursday. 
You never know what will develop when 1200 members of the class of 2001 
•

mix 1t• up. 
' 
' 
' 
-I 
222 S. MICHIGAN MORE PICTURES @ WWW.ACEPIACES.COM/HEARTLAND SOUTH BEND $1 COVER [WITH COLLEGE ID, MUST BE 21] 219.234.5200 AND LOTS OF OTHER STUFF FOR A BUCK, TOO. CALL THE HEARTLAND CONCERT & EVENT LINE 219.251.2568 SOUTH BEND'S BIGGEST PARTY  

---~-----­
page 22 
Rowing 
conli1rned from µage 24 
Chi('a/.{o. Ill . was thP coxsw,tin !'or l11t~ St'l'.1JJ1d var­siLy l'ighl boat last snason. Ki<'rni<'ki. lib• Bula. is also a thre1~-yt>ar tPam nwrnbnr. 
Tlw g-irls who WPrP ('hos<'ll by the L1;am an· "gn~al rhoic­f's," said Storw ...Tlwy both startPci off on tlw r!ub tPam and progr11ssPd up to varsity 1·oxsw,li11. Tlwv havP rlif'for­Pnt IPadnship ·styl<'s but am Vl'l'Y t'ffl't'liVf'." 
:ianv atlilPtPs have P11dur1:d rigorous olT·sPason training to improv.-from last yt\,Lr and takP th1· 1wxt stnp to <'Stablish Lf1., Warn as a top roll<•giat1• program 
"VI'<-arn already gaining from last y,~ar," said Bula. "ThP girls arP rasLPr and working r1•ally lrnnL" 
ThP rowing tPam opPns Oct. 7 at tlw Chirngo Chas<'. 
Fall 2000 Wo1uen 1s Rowing October Schedule 
I 
nnw  Opp,11w111  J.,,eat inu  
10/7  Chicago Clwsc  Chit.:a/!o  
!0/8  Heat! of the Rock  Rockford  
10/14  M1d11gun Slalc  East Lansing  
10129  Hem.J of the Elk  Elkhart  



The Observer . SPORTS 
sive coordinator, before inher­iting the head coaching posi­tion. 
"When you spend nine years at a place. you can't help but have strong emotions," said Davie. "And if you combine that with the fact that R.C. and I are extremely close 
Wednesday, August 30, 2000 
frifmds, it makes for a uniqur. Davir is not thn only one situation_" who has com(1 undnr f'ini. 
Together. Davie and Slocum Slocum has recently faced compiled a nine-year 85-24-1 critics of his own. Going 8-!i. record with eight bowl game th(J Aggins su!Tnr<'d crushing appearances. dnf'Pats to Oklahoma, 
But football N 11 b r as k a 
wasn't their and l'Pnn.
"I've done a lot (~{jogging
only common Statn. The interest. with /R.C Slocum]. J-le Aggins· 51-(> ··we hit. it runs like I do. Both ofus loss to tlrn 
off from the Soonnrs
have pretty good hands.
time that I m a r k 11 cl arrivnd at We both played the tuba Texas A&M's A&M." said worst loss
in the high school band. " 
Davie. "I've sinl'n 1901. done a lot of Weeks lal<•r. jogging with Bob Davie a :l?-0 loss lo him. lie runs football coach t h P like I do. CornhuskPrs Both of' us PnrlPd a 142· 
have pretty good hands. We game scoring strnak and both played the tuba in the dropped tlw Aggins out or th<' high school band. Wr. both AP Top 25. married our high school 
"Well if' IILC. 'sl under f'irr:. sweethearts. We both wachr,d 
I'm 11nd1\r aslrns. I'm alrPadydefense. We just had a lot of 
burned and toast<'cl," said the same intl'rests and so wr 
Davie. ··1 think !LC. would bl' 
hit it off in the beginning." 
tlrn 11rst one to say that tlwyWhile Davie looks forward 
didn't end the season last 
to thn friendly rivalry when 
year on a particularly high
Slocum and company arrivn in note. But it's amazing what he 
South Bnnd, thr, fourth-year has acromplishnd. lle's don!' 
head coach knows it's time to 
a tremendous job_ I think any­
gr.t down to busimiss. 

whnrn people lik1\ to stir con·"Beforn this game is kicked troversy."
off. I'm going to enjoy the 
Davie is not Llw only nrnm· 
moment. but I promise I'm ber of thP Irish with ties to
only going to r,njoy it for a Texas -20 Irish players are
moment," said Davie. "We'll f'rom the Lonestar Slatn.
kick that thing off and we're 
"You think back to the
going to get after each other." 
recruiting of thosn players,After a losing 1999 cam­
just about nveryonn of' thempaign, the Irish have to prove 
either had a chance to go to
they are better than last 
UT or A&M or cnrtainly had
year's 5-7 record. Davir. Pspe­
the chance to stay in state,"cially feels this pressure. 
said Davie. "Certainly brag·"The reality is that we lost 
ging rights are involved with
our last four games last year it. They all go home. Theyand regardless of the reasons, want to show they made thnthat's not acceptable here at right decision by coming toNotre Dame," said Davie. "I 
Notre Dame."

realize that. Our football team Davie is also hoping to shar<!
and our coaching staff real­those rights Saturday.
izes that." 

Football 
continued from page 24 
present coach R.C. Slocum. During Sherrill's tenure at the helm of the Aggies' program, Slocum served as the defen­
$$ I need to buy Nebraska vs. Notre Dame fooball tickets. $$ 
Home Phone: (562)598-3949 24 Hr Voice Mail: (213) 487-4161 

Men's Tennis Tryouts 
Monday Sept. 14th 4:00P:\11 Outdoor Tennis Courts In event of rain, report to Eck Tennis Pavillion Questions, call 1-6929 
sNi'ght: Today d:ACC Fieldhouse 
ry Open House for all 1 ,~: Today or Tomorrow 4;.; 
,~ing Room (aero~ footqa.JI office} 
We all learn from one another. The 

Find out more about: 
RCIA gives you a chance to walk 

•The Sacraments of Initiation 
with someone as 

BAPTISM, EUCHARIST & CONRRMATION:you explore your 
faith and find 

for unbaptized persons wanting to 
your place in the 

become a member of the Catholic Church.
Church. Join us on this adventure of faith. 
PROSPECTIVE 

•Fvu CoMMVNION: 
SPONSORS ARE 

for baptized persons wanting Full
WELCOME! 

Communion in the Catholic tradition. 

For more info, contact: 
Tami Schmitz 
@ 
631-3016 
Badin Hall 


Wednesday, August 30, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TYLER

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 


CROSSWORD  HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
ACROSS 35 The Earps, e.g. 1 "Later, dude!" .37 In addition 6 Bowlful for 38 Aware of Bowser 39 To pieces 10 Lefts from Louis 40 Shirt part 14 Swashbuckling 41 Show fearFlynn 42 Part of the uvea15 Long bath 43-What_,16 Sometimes­chopped liver?" twisted snack 44 Improvise17 Hamper 45 1980's antidrug 18 News agency campaignerfounded in 1918 48 Strands in a19 Troy Aikman's cell?alma mater 49 Range part: 20 Sound of Abbr.disapproval 21 "Ver-r-ry funny!" 50 Purge 24 Burt's "The 51 Wasn't on Killers" co-star commission 25 Female hog 56 Cultural 26 Batting avg., e.g. Revolution chief 29 Father 59 Meter maid of Flanagan's song group, today 60 Spy Aid rich ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  61 Wooer of Olive Oyl 63 Notes in a pot, maybe 64 Hop, skip or jump 65 Fabulous fellow? 66 Little swab 67 They may come with odds 68 Doesn't talk smoothly DOWN 1 Splinter group 2 Goes off 3 The Phantom of the Opera's name 4 Day in Jerusalem 5 Kind of soup 6 Off track 7 Mutual fund fee 8 Announcer's medium 9 "I'm ready ­let's hear it!" 10 Du_(menu phrase) 12 Actor Lugosi 13 Go sky-high 22 Bell-ringer of commercialdom 23 "That is s0-0-0-0 cute!" 27 1930's director with three Oscars  to Fonzie 40 Emphatic words of agreement 41 Mars, for one 43 Gallery event 44 C-worthy?  56 Rumple 57 Perched on 58 Unwelcome word from a surgeon? 62 Rustic locale Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the  CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS costume party. You may even ainsid­DAY: Dizzy Gillespie, Carrie Fisher, er having a partyyourself. 000 Manfred Mann, Carl Brewer, Patti VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept 22): Disil­Davis lusionment regarding money is evi­Happy Birthday: It's time to get dent. Do not overspend on luxurythings in perspective and decide what items. Take time to work on hobbies you really want. Once you have a that relax you. You need a break more clear outline of your future direction, than you think. 000 it will be easy for you to start to LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Discuss move. Your biggest drawback will be your future plans with good friends. your own uncertainties. Working You will get a clearer picture of youralongside others will help to bring situation if you bounce your ideas off out your creative abilities. Your num­those you trust. Romantic attractions bers: 6, 14, 18, 32, 37, 46 will surface. 000 ARIES (March ?1-April 19): Fami­SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Sud­ly discussions may get out of hand. den changes in your financial situa­Be sure to think before you act and tion are likely. Be sure to cover all the refrain from jumping to conclusions. necessary groundwork before signing Your best choice is sports or physical binding contracts. 00000 activities. 000 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Opportunities for romance will devel­Don't let children cost you too much. op through pleasure trips and social You will have to be careful not to events. Don't overspend on entertain­take financial risks. Be aware of the ment or friends. You need to set a problems older relatives are experi­budget and stick to it 00 encing. You may have to help them CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):out.0000 You can get some peace of mind if GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Listen you contact the person who has been to the interesting things that older rel­irritating you and let him or her know atives want to share with you. You how you feel. You can't let anyone can save yourself a lot of grief if you walk all over you. 0000 avoid argument with loved ones. AQUARWS Qan. 20-Feb. 18): Get Your emotions willbe unstable. 00 busy and start making those physicalCANCER (June 21-July 22): changes you've been considenng. You Romance will unfold through work­will get recognition for your creative related events. Don't be afraid to endeavors. Overtime will bring unex­socialize with colleagues or clients. pected rewards. 000 Your charm will win the hearts of PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You those you encounter. Let your heart should probably rest up. You have lead the way. 00000 not been yourself lately. You will need LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Help to concentrate on getting your vitality youngsters prepare for Halloween. back to normal and then catching upYou can have fun if you attend a onthe work you let fall behind. 000 Birthday Baby: You are a happy individual who can see the good in every­thing. You're highly motivated and willing to do whatever is necessary to accomplish your life goals. You are well-liked because of your ability to under­stand what others are ~encing. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, utromate.com.)  
28 Aunt Polly's creator  46 Singer Sumac 47 Understands  best of Sunday crosswords from the fast 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  C 1999 Universal !'mo Syndicate  

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name 
Address 

City _______ State ____ Zip______ 




Nominated 

Senior inside linebacker Anthony Denman is one of70 candidates for lhe 2,wo IJutkus Award.
PORTS 
page 19 
page 24 
FOOTBALL 

Irish program prepares to face the heat 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sports Editor 

,. . 
The tnmpt>ralltre is rising at Notre Dame. 
And it's noL just Lhe wcath­Pr. With just thn~e days left until the Irish kick off their season against TP-xas A&M, things art> hPating up. 
"It's bt•en hot Pnough, and in some ways it ronrr-rns mP a little bit." said Irish hnad roach Bob l>aviP. "lt St't~ms like evt>ry yPar. \\ego through camp and it's ri>fa­tivPly cool. and then WP go out and il's hot and humid and 90 dcgrPt>s. I madH a pn'­diction -I'm not a WPathN­man. but I can tt>II vou what, it's going to b,• hot a:._ it usual­
ly is." 
Combinn that with tlw lwat of pn\ssurP and snutlnv and Saturday promisPs u,· b,, a scordwr. 
The Irish know this and havt• bt>Pn pn•paring l'or the Sc\ason op1•1wr sinn' th!-\ Pnd of' last sPaswi. 
"'You ahvavs look al LhP 
srhr.dul!• for.thP nPxt vrar. and c1•rtainly. Tt>xas .-\&~! has bf't>n on our minds sin!'!' Lht'n." said Davie. "You gel such a Lr1•m1•rHlous boost of confidPn1•p and momPnlum from winning thl' !'irst garnl'. Th,• first ganw or thl' V«'ar is always huge," · 
Saturday's gum1• againsL Tl'xas AI\IM is all tlw biggi~r bticaus1• of tlw p1·rso1utl tit's among thP rnarlws and play­Prs. 

-
llaviri s1)rv1•d as an assisLant rnarh for TP'i:as •\.S.'\1 l'rom 1985 to I')(U, first worl...lng with outsictt> linPhac•kprs under lhi'll head roach Jacki<· Sherrill and th,·n as th1• ddnnsivP roord inator u nd Pr 
see FOOTBALL/pa~e 22 
WOMEN'S ROWING 


Irish prepare to begin 2000 season 
ond. said Stone. "That is our main squad.
• Bula, Kiernicki 

"Last. season we raced fair­goal." Bula. a Madison, Wisconsin
named co-captains ly well. but we are young The women helping Stone naitive. said that player and still," said head coach Martin row towards that goal are coach connf'ctions will be Stone. The head coach hopes srniors Claire Bula and Erin key in the upcoming season,
By STEVE KEPPEL 

to get a little faster before Kiernicki. four year veterans "We've been around since Sporrs Writer the first meet in Chirngo Ort. and captains for the 2000 the very start and we kind of 7, but has seen some squad. give direction and coach the 
Every s11cond counts as thn improvement already. The two captains -who others," Buia said. "We both women's rowing team glides "Our initial testing went have been with the team have a really good relation­tnwards the NCAA champi­prnlty well. but to make the since it became a varsitv ship with all of the rowers." onships. !\/CAA's we nef>.d to be about sport three years ago -will Kiernicki. a senior from 
Even the fractions of a sec-three to four percent foster," be lhe key leaders on the 
see RO\VING/page 22 
Wednesday, August 30, 2000 
Success 
in 2000 

defined 
A<; the final week warn~s bcforP Notrn Damr's season openN against Texas A&M. it S!\cms that Urn rampus can do littlo but wait. After all, them·s no ganrn from the previous week to talk about, and since our head roach has adopted a bunker nwntalitv 
where h;. 
doses prac.­
tir.rs to thP 
m<'dia. WP 
n'allv don't 
hav/anv 
idPa wh;tt 
ttrn heck is 
going on in 
thcrl'. 

I suppose it's just as ,vdl Notrn Damn foot­ball !"ans k<wp indulging in that wonderful sµring and sumnwr 
pastinw: spPculating about the job status ol' Bob OiLvic. 
When disrussing this topi1·. PVPry supporlPr of thP Irish sn<'ms to havP a standard that l)avir must nrnPt to k""P his job. There an' g(•nnrally two schools of thought. 
First, th<'rl' is option A: "S-7'? ,\n! you kidding nm" II' hn doesn't go to a BCS Bowl lw should bP canned!'' 
And tlwn Llwr<' is tlw slightly IPss dPnHtncling option B: "S-7'? ,\rP you kidding nw? II" lw doesn't go at lnast 8-:~ lw should be nrnned 1" 
One Notr<' Dam!' f'ootball ana­lyst who S<'Pms to bf' of' th!' lat<'r opinion is Tim l'rist(•r. tlw Editor ol' Blue & (;old lllustratnd. a pop­ular publiration rnvering Notn! l>anw football. In his prPsPason issue, PristPr writes " ... thN<' should b(! enough experi1mcn, talent. and pridf>. on this tmtm to finish at least 8-3. Anything less than that is a crimc ... if lthn coaches; don't lead this team to a New Year's Day bowl, the school has an obligation to lind the right coaching combination." 
A crimP-? I can't say I disagrer>. 
But will athlctir director Kevin White see it that way? All thes11 opinions on what Oavi<' nrnds to stay could differ f'rom what hH actuallv nePds to do in the cves of White. Is there any way i-4 could be enough? Consider th1)s11 scenarios: 
Notrn Dame loses to N1\braska, Purdue. West Virginia. and USC All are close losses. Nebraska looks primed for a national titl1). Purdue has a IIcisman trophy candidatP at quartflrback. 

Brian Burke 
Fourth and Pfteen 
see BURKE/page 20 
Volleyball vs. New Mexico Volleyball
---~ '. 

~ vs, Fairfield Priday, 9 p.rn. ac Alma Tournament
SPORTS ~ • Cross Country 
Friday, 4 p.m. Sepl. 1-2 
;H V:tlparaiso Inv.ATA Sept. 9, TBA 
vs. Tulsa vs. Texas A&M vs. Alma
$1,'iC

,.. Saturday, 12 p.m. Sept. 4. 4 p.m
Friday, 7:30 p.m. ~
GLANCE 








