
Despite antics, election ends in run-off of favorites 
By TIM LOGAN News Editnr 
l)pspitc Darths. a "death" and the dPbate that many called a debaclo, wlwn all the votes W\'r\' cmmtPd '.'vlonclay evening. it wa,; the two favoritPs who wer!' lnft standing in the student brn.ly prosid1mtial rac11• 
Keough llall senator Hrian O'Donoghup. and sophnmorP dass vice president Rrookn '\!orton will face llunt llanover and junior class presi­dent John Mir:ek in lhf! run-off el,ictions 
Thursday. 
O'Don;>ghuP/Norton received 43 percent of tlw :-!,818 vott\S cast. Hanover/Micek garnered 34 percent. John Osborn and Mark Donahey. th<' Board of TrustePs rPport chairs for student govPrnnwnt. linislwd a distant third with 6.7 
JJ('!TCllt. 
Tlw two tickPts still alive !'rum the original 
lfo Id of 10 promised to 
campaign diligently in the 
1wxt thnic days.

The Run-off 
"We're going to keep 
. What: final elec-going," O'Uonoghue said. "We're going to get our
lion for student 
word out to the students 
body president and 
and we're going to keep vice president on pushing." Micek had similar plans
. When: Thursday, 
for his campaign. results announced "I think things went well," he said. "We just
at 9 p.m. 
have to work hard and 
keep our nose to the 
grindstone." 

()'Donoghue/Newton received 400 more votes than their rivals, and. while that edge will not count in Thursday's voting, it does show that their support is stronger. But Hanover and Micek were not discouraged. 
"It's ddinitelv not over," Hanover said. "IlPducing it to two tickets brings in a lot of 
w..u1....Ptus/COPPl'N(iEM. _P.-.RDON/HtGGIN!'lo
\OWs." 
• 
Tlw otlwr Pight ticknls split the remaining 23 p<'tTPnt of tlw votl', with Osborn/Donahey, Joe Slll'pherd/.lim Focht and "Darth" Todd Warapius/ "Darth" (;eorge Coppinger each roct-iving at IPast 100 ballots. 
Warapius. whose campaign goals included establishing a strictly despotic student govern­
PRIMARY ELECTION RESULTS 

nwnt. 1~xprnssN! 110µ1\ for the future. cv1~n if 
O'Donoghue/ Norton 43% sonwone else would have to carry on his mis­Hanove1·/ Micek 34% 
MANDI POWELL/The Observer 

sion. "I gu1iss !'II have Lo name an apprentice fur 
JOB TURNER/The Observer 
next year unci hope llwy fare better," he said. 
Osborn and Donahey have no plans for Brian O'Donoghue and futurn dcspol'i, but lhey do say they will keep Brooke Norton examine the working in student government. The third­numbers of Monday's stu­place pair is sti!I working on this semester's dent body election. Their Board or TrusteEs report. They said they were ticket received 400 more not surprised by the rnsults. 
votes than the second-place
'Tm not terribly surprised," Donahey said of 
finishers of Hunt Hanover 
their third-place finish. "We waged a good 
and John Micek. 

see ELECTIONS/page 4 
Renowed theology professor McCor01ick dies at 79 
ethics, joined the Notre Dame Ohio, McCormick entered the The recipient of a number of Theological Studies to SportsSpecial to The Observer 
faculty in 1986. He previoulsy Society of Jpsus in 1940 and academic honors and awards, Illustrated. He made frequent was the Rose F. Kennedy profes­graduated from Loyola McCormick was a member of the appearances on television news 
Father Hiclrnn.1 McCormick. 
sor of Chrlstian Ethics in University in Chir:ago five years American Academy of the Arts programs to discuss both ethical
John A O'Brien professor emeri­
Georgetown University's later. He obtained a master's and Sciences and past president issues in public policy and eccle­tus of Christian ethics at Notro Kennedv Center for Bioethics degree from Loyola in 1950 and of the Catholic Theological siastical politics. 
Dame, died Saturday at 
from 1973-86 and a professor of in 1953 was ordained to the Society of America. He wrote Visitation will be onColombiern Center in Clarkston, 
moral theology at the Jesuit priesthood. In 1957 he obtained numerous books and articles on Wedensday at Gesu Church in
Mich. 
Sr:hool of Theology in Chicago his doctoral degree in theology medical ethics, and his work was Toledo, Ohio, where a funeralMcCormick, a moral theolo­
from 1957-73. from the Gregorian University in published in periodicals ranging Mass will be celebrated gian who specialized in medical 
Born Oct. 3, I 922, in Toled(), Rome. from Common-wealth and Thursday at 11 a.m. 

One of our own 
Scene reciews current St. Edward's Hall assistanl rector Erik Goldschmidt new musical project. 
Scene . page 13 

THE 
VOL XXXIII NO. 83 

Another tragedy in Littleton 
Two Columbine students are found dead in a local reslurant and authories are looking for answers. 
News . page 7 


HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Tuesday 
FEBRUARY 15, 2000 

_J 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Get out 


and vote 
Almost half of all American adults have no right to complain about being sick of Bill Clinton and his numerous scandal.s. 
Why'? Bcrnus0 46 pf'rcent of Americans who had the potential to make Clinton go away in 
1996 chose to do nothing.  
According to the U.S.  Erin LaRuffa  
Census flun~au. only 54  
percent of eligible voters  
chose to be part of the  
presidential selection  copy editor  
process that year. The sta­ 

tistics are even more pathetic among voters 
between the ages of 18 and 24, a group among 
which only 32 pr,rct)nt votPd in 1996. 
I am by no means lamenting Bob Dole's defeat. In !'act. if I had been old enough, I would have voted for Clinton. But this is not a commentary on the merits of onC' politician. I am concPrnPd with something larger: the fact that millions of A.meritans do not feel the need to vote, even though voting is one of the easiest and most important ways of participating in the Amerir,an republic. 
A major complainl of American colonisl.s in the 1770s was lack of representation in the British goVPrnmPnt. In lat<'r yrars. countless numb<'rs of Americans fought to ensure the vote for women and minorities. Other countries look to the U.S. as a model for what a government should be. The right for all of a country's citizens to vote in free and open elections guarantees freedom in that country. Do you think that Fidel Castro would still be ruling Cuba is Cubans enjoyed the same voting privileges as Americans? 
I am not sure why so many Americans would not want to vote. Perhaps they don't think that their votes make a difference in the outcome of elections. However, this is not true. 
A single vote has the most impact in local elec­tions. This NovembPr in my hometown, one can­didate for nur Board of Education beat out his opponent by 10 votes. Yiy area's representative to the U.S. Congress has frequently been in close races. These elected officials make decisions on a daily basis that affect the lives of their con­stituents. 
But one vote couldn't possibly make a differ­ence in a national election. a skeptical person might argue. Perhaps one vote really wouldn't influence the outcome of a presidential election. But millions of Americans choose not to vote every November. Millions of voters -almost half of all possible voters -can make a difference in any election. 
There is really no excuse for not voting. Registering is easy; visiting wvvw.rockthevote.org can begin the process. People who will be unable to make it to the actual poll site on election day can easily obtain an absentee ballot. 
But why wait for November to begin exercising your voice in American politics'? March 7 is an important day for presidential nominee hopefuls because many states have primaries on that day. There is still time to register for that date. Even if you're not going to vote in an upcoming primary. it's still a good idea to register soon. 
No matter when you get around to registering, please take advantage of your right to help select our country's leaders. Even if the candidate you didn't support wins, at least you can complain. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Laura Rompf Emmerr Malloy 
Erin LaRuffa Jenn Zacorski Helena Ravam 
Graphics Sports 
M.rn<li Powdl Bri1n Kessler 
Production Viewpoint 
l\ri an Kessler 
A.J. Boyd Lib Tech Bersy Srorc.:y 
The ObserYa (L1SPS '199 2-4000} is published fv1ond,l)' through FricLy except duri11p. exam ,rnd v.1c-uion periods. The Observer is ,1 meml,C"r of rhc As.sot::iatcd Press. AJI reproduuion rights ,ire ri:servcJ, 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
''There is no denying 'This place is a 
that problems often multimillion dollar 
lead to accomplish-business ... and a 
ments being over­Catholic institution, 
looked, and that cer­but sometimes it's 
tainly has been true run more like a 
with respect to Mike multimillion dollar 
Wadsworth ... " business." 
Father Edward Malloy Vincent Slatt University president Dillion Hall junior 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Hackers use UCLA computers to attack site 
LOS ANGELES 
Electronic attacks on some of lhe Internet's most high-prolile sites went through U(lA according to university officials. 
UCLA computers are suspected to have been remotely hacked into and then used in at least one attack, most likely the one that madH Amazon.com Inc. 's Web siie inaccessible to cus­tomers for more than an hour last Tuesday. According to a statement tssued by the university, campus exp1\rts an~ ·•wnfident that tlw hack­ers are not based on campus." 
The attack was one of' several per­petrated against such companies as Yahoo!, eBay. BUY.COM, ZDNet, E*THADE and Datek early last week and comes on the heels of reporl"i that UC Santa Barbara (UCSB) and Stanford computers were used in a similar attack on CNN's Web site. 
U. Penn students protest sweatshops 
PIIILADELPIIIA 
Banners and posters with anti-sweatshop mes­sages currently hang across the University of Pennsylvania's campus as part of the first major social protest at the school in decades. Student reac­tions to the protest that began on Feb. 7 have been mixed. Some students admitted that they were unin­formed about sweatshops, while others offered sup­port to the issue. Still, others flatly criticized the efforl. "I think la sit-in I is a good idea," freshman Ahsim Khan said. But freshman Jonathon Frerichs disagreed. "[The protestors are] hypocrites." he said. "Half of their clothing was made in sweat­shops." Still, on a campus of"ten regarded as apa­thetic. some students commended the effort to bring the issue of' sweatshop labor to the forefront. While several student groups have remained silent abut the protest, many groups have come out in support or the sit-in. Student groups that have taken notice of the movement hung banners and signs pledging their support. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeatherw forecast for day1ime condi1ions and high tempenuures 
H l: Tuesday ~ 42 36 
~f 
I
Wednesday G 40 24 Thurs~ay Q 40 34 
·.;.·,:,· 
Friday i ~ 46 30 
Saturday Q 39 24 
. ~-~ i .,, ···:'·' -:: 
Q,Q,~488 !) ~ d 
Showers T-stO{mS Rain Fl~r;,.s s,;;;:, le• Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Associated Press Groph,csNst 

''At this time we are not aware ofthe motives behind these attacks but they appear to be intended to interfere with ... legitimate electronic 
commerce. 
Janet Reno 
U.S. Attorney General 
Harniro Escudero, a spokesman for the FBI's Los Angeles field office. described the use of network comput­ers like those al universities as "tram­poline attacks" in which they are used as a platform to launch assaults. 
According to reports late last week. the sites were the apparent victims of d1~nial-of-service attacks in which 
"It was an actual circus -three rings. I was pretty disappointed. " 
Kelly Folks Judicial Council president on the student body presidential election debates 
Northwestern suspends officer 
EVANSTON, Ill. 

Police announced Friday that the officer involved in the fatal shooting of Northwestern University student Hobert Huss last June will receive a 15-day suspension but will not lose his job, a decision Huss' mother called "a stab in my heart." After months of controversy. Chicago Police Supt. Terry I lillard decided to follow an internal investigation's recommendation to suspend the oflicer. Van Watts IV, and require him to undergo reme­dial training in handling a weapon and pursuing a vehi­cle. A football player and a senior, Russ was shot and killed after being pulled over for driving erratically June 5, only weeks before graduation. When Russ would not get out of his car, police broke a rear window. Police have said Russ then tried to grab an officer's gun, lead­ing to the accidental shooting. Following a thorough review of' witness testimony and physical evidence, llillard concluded that Watts had not acted recklessly or intentionally disobeyed police rules, police spokes­woman Laurie King told The Associatr,d Prnss. "There is no tolerance for deliberate misconduct." she said Friday. 
The AccuWeather" forecast for noon, Tuesday, Feb. 15. 
FRONTS: 
......... .a...&. ........ 

<O 2000 AacuWeather, Inc. COLO WARM srAt/ONARY
®....,co . 
High low Showera 
Via A.9SOCUlled Pres!J 
Atlanta 62 Baltimore 44 Boston 42 Chicago 48 Houston 80 
. ill] 

Raln_T_·•l_c,_•,._Flu_n_le,_S_nc_w__k_e_s_un~ny_Pt_.C_lo_ud~y_C_lm_,dy~ 
48  Las Vegas  66  -49  Portland  49  37  
33  Memphis  63  52  Sacramento  60  48  
29  Milwaukee  40  30  St. Louis  59  41  
38  New York  43  34  Tampa  76  55  
65  Philadelphia  42  32  Washing1on. DC 48  36  

hacked computers are directed to send a coordinated attack against a victim, overloading the victim with information and blocking access to legitimate users. 
Part of an ongoing problem. denial­of-service attacks were the subject of FBI alerts as early as December. 
"At this time we are not aware of' the motives behind these attacks but they appear to be intended to inter­fere with and to disrupt legitimate Plectronic commerce," U.S. Attorney General Janet Heno said at a press conference last Wednesday. 
The attackers are believed to have used a desktop computer at UCSB to assault CNN, and an Internet router at Stanford to launch an amplified attack on eBay. Like UCLA, officials at both schools have said that the uni­versities are not the original source of the attacks. 
"/ was wondering, ''Are we going to pack it in or are we going to make a last stand?" and we decided we were going to fight." 
Matt Doherty men's basketball coach on the lrish's win over UConn 



Professors: Media images lead to eating disorders 


By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
N~w, 'Wiitcr 
In a society filled with young women craz1,d Lo look like supn models. movie stars and Barbie dolls. eating disorders J.rn silentlv ndvcrtisod in almost all 11wdia, acc;1rding to rt'snarch doun by two Saint Mary's prnl'essors. 
Karen Chambers. a psychology profos­sor. and Susan Alexander, a sociology professor. am very concerned with the message the media conveys to young womnn. tlwy said during a presentation for Eating Disorders f\warencss Weok. 
"EvPryday our students arc bmnharded with stuff from tlrn media," said Chambers. 
Eating disorders have become a major problem in tlw Unitf'd StatPs. Women are dissatisfind with their bodi1\S and feel Limy arn not "ideally" thin t~nough, tlrn prof'Pssors said. 
Tlw id1)al woman, based on media 
imug11s. awffages 5-fool.-7. weighs 1110 pounds and wears a siZP two, Alexander said. In reality, how1w1'r. she said. a woman on LhP avPrage is fl-foot-4, weighs 140 pounds and Wt'ars a size l 4, 
In the µust century. thinness has his­torically changPd. In 1905 the ideal woman wus rnodeled after th11 "Gibson Girl." with a tight, hourglass figure. 
In l894, the id Pal "Whitt• Hock Girl" was :i-l'oot-4 and wciglrnd 140 pounds, 

Daytona Beach Resort 
m COll!llm (ENlfl 

Prices slaullnq &t589';?2, 
Vaid3112JOOthn>ugl,313111lO ___,.1:'~ 
800-654-6216 
Visit n ll www.d&Jloubeukruorl.co¦ or www.dlsco111lbre1h.co¦ 
much like the "reality woman" the pair dis·­cussed. In 1947, she was still 5-foot-4, but weighed 124 pounds. Then in the 1'J70s, the "White Rock Girl" was 5-foot-8 and weighed 118 pounds. 
Ninety-five percent ol' American womf'n are not born with the "ideal" body. Even some models diet and have eating disor­ders. 
"We feel ashamed or our bodies and feel guilty when we eat," said Alexander. 
Women who suffer from anonixia show an emphasis in their lives on personal achievement with perfectionist behav­ior. They !'eel driwm to succeed and place a high value on exter­n a I accP ptan ce. Anorexia is more prevalent in industri­al societios, ospecially in the United States where there is an abundance of' food and very thin images portrayed on televi­sion and in advertisements. 
Research shows that some young girls are more afraid of being fat than any­thing else, the professors said. 
Alexander and Chambers presented more startling statistics that they discov­ered through their research. Seventy-five percent of American women are dissatis­fied with their bodies. Fifty percent of 9­year-old girls and 80 percent of 10-year­old girls say they have dieted at one time or another and 90 percent of high school girls diet regularly. 
The peaks for anorexia are 14 and 18, the ages in which people enter high school and college. 
On average, 1 percent of the women in high school and 5 percent in college suf­fer from anornxia. 
"That means roughly about 70 women lat Saint Mary's have eating disorders]," Chambers conducted an experiment to see if using different tech­niques to teach young women about eating
NEED CASH? 

disorders has an affect on how they view their body image. 
The research consist­ed of three groups ­
one that watched a video on eating disor-
NEW DONORS 
EARN $20 TODAY 

Notre Dame Film. Television and Theatre presents 
MENTION THIS AD FOR A $5.00 BONUS 
'> 

.~"~' 
Up to $1 45.00 a 

.LL\etors frtn11 tl1t1 Lo11clo11 Stng·e
month in 2-4 

All's Well That Ends Well
hours a week 

av William Shakespeare 
said Alexander. "Think about who we have here at Saint Mary's College. We have the highest risk factors here." 
However, there has been little system­atic research done in other cultures to see if anorexia is as much of a problem, Studies show that if a person travels from a culture where thin images are rare to a culture were they are more prevalent, that person will begin to become more aware of her image and start comparing herself to that "ideal" image. 
The two suggested media literacy as a way to combat the negative effects from the media that may promote eating dis­orders. 
"We can't censor all the media," said Alexander. "Rather than trying to elimi­nate the images, we want to alter the way women apply the images to them­selves," 
Using first-year students at Saint 
Mary's, Alexander and 
ders, one that read an article, and one 
control group. All groups then answered 
the same questions on how they felt 
about their body images compared to 
ideal images. 
The research results showed that the 
women who watched the video did not 
see much dilTerence between their cur­
rent body and the "ideal" body, The con­
trol group had a significant difference. . "The media presentations were effec­
tive," said Chambers. "Students were 
learning from both the video and the 
article." 
Alexander said the media makes 
women feel guilty. 
Both Chambers and Alexander agree 
that discussion is even better than pre­
senting material, 
"Part of why we don't want to focus on 
psychological [problems] is because what 
we're bombarded with everyday is 
images, images, images. We have to 
work on a systematic level," said 
Alexander. 
Alexander and Chambers plan to con­
tinue their research. 
"Ideally, we would like to track the 
same group of students," said Alexander. 
She said that part of the problem with 
eating disorders is a competitiveness in 
some women. 
"We are cultural and socially taught to 
look at other women and compare our­
selves," said Alexander. "It's almost like 
you can't stop yourself from doing it." 
Sunday Matinee. February 20 ........ 2:30 pm Thursday. February 24 ..................... 7:30 pm Wednesday. February 23 .................... 7:30 pm Friday. February 25 .. .. . . . ......... 7:30 pm



SERA CARE PLASMA 
Saturday, February 26 .. .. 730 pm 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats S16 • Seniors S14 • All Students'S12 Tickets available at laFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128 
The residency of Actors from the London Stage 1s sponsored in part. by ,he Henkels Lecture Series
234-6010 515 LINCOLNWAYWEST 
c::~~-;;~~ This m:1•.,r! 1s ma. e p. s£10la 1n psr1~:: :~e Cammunit:: F~uM3!10~ :: SJint J:;sc~ri C~ur.:: ·rrJt1gi :~e ln11m:a Ar;~ II A,:. ~ _::.'. 11 :·'-t~ Ccmrrns~1un. ~ stare )geric1, ·;,'1t~: !unds 1rcm ihe lnd1am Gen~1JI ~~sernoi·; i~O :t-: ::.it.0031 EnGc;·;:riefll t~r :~e A·E ,.,~~ 
~ 

Elections 
continued from page 1 
campaign." 
Voter turnout was unusually high. according to Becky Demko, Judicial Council vice president for elections. In !'act, 
49.58 perc•pnt of students vot('(l in this P,Jection. she said, up from approximately 43 percrmt in last year's primary. 
"I think it was one of tlrn high­est turnouts we 'vc ever had." 
By STACEY KAPLAN News Wri,cr 
Serious change is necessary in Catholic education, said Monika llellwig, Executive Director for the Association of 
Catholic  Colleges  and  
Universities [ACCU], in  a  lec­ 
ture on Monday.  

"The most neglected [asµect of Catholic education] is educa­tion for practice. We 1rned to practice for active engagement in society," IIPllwig said, refer­ring to low voter turnout in r fl c e n t elecLions. 
this prob­I e m Catholic educators need to cncouragl\ action in the public realm, said llellwig. 
Catholic education dons have numerous advantages, includ­ing professional preparation, scholarly standards and Pfforts to overcome. she said. The dis­advantages include the tenden­cy to become overly specialized in graduate studies. 
"The more narrow your spe­cialization. ttrn Jpss you are 
Demko said. 

Science center offers new options
Candidates were nol allowed 
to actively campaign Monday. because it was the day of the election, but O'Donoghue/Nortun and llanovr,r/Micek said tlwy would resume their efforts at midnight. 
The run-off will be held Thursday, with results being announced at <J p.m. in the stu­dent government office in LaFortunc Student Center. One ticket must receive morn than 50 pcrcont of' the vote in ordor to win the elt•ction. 

By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY 
Associate News Ediro, 

Following 15 years of research and d!'velopment, Notre Dame opened its C1inter for Nanoscience and Technology last November. 
Nanoscience is science per­formed on a small scale, said Nina Welding, ()ditor of college publications for the Collegli of Engineering. 
"'Nano' refers to small or milli-micro sized items," she 
said. "Nano ·scientists' can be engineers or biologists or chemists -in fact many of' them arc now working together in the University to study ways to complete applications cur­rently going on, but on a molec­
Hellwig: Education 

needs link with action 
"Even "{f we look at higher

the most 
education in terms of

educated 
people Christianity, then the goal 
seem to {for students] is not the think they 
moment ofgraduation but 

are power­less," she the moment they die." s a i d . "People 
Monika Hellwig

just don't 
Executive director for

engage." In res­Association of Catholic 
ponse to Colleges and Universities 
formity because it is away from creativity," she said. 
II e I I w i g advocated a Catholic edu­cational sys­tem that stresses cre­ativity and imagination. 
"Jr we look at higher edu­cation in terms of Christianity, 
then the goal [for students] is not the moment of graduation but the moment they die. What have tlrnv done with their lives'?" sai~I I Iellwig. "Tim goal should be a lifetinw engage­ment in search of the rnign of God." 
Iler lecture is just part of a thn1P-day co11fernnce that includns talks by nationally rec­ognized scholars and consulta­tion sessions for participants. 

new architectures based on nanoelectric devices and nano­engineered mechanical, chemi­cal and electronic systems," said literature provirlml by Welding. "Initial projects will include an integrated imagB procBssor, first-generation microprocessor and network of quantum based devicns that can be used in a variety of digital applications." 
But the center's directors believe the grnater purpose is to bring together sciimtilic minds. 
"A key goal of the new center is to serve as a national resource -a think tank ­where technologists from indus­try can come to explore nanoconcepts for engineering applications," said director Gerald Iafrate in a press release. "This will lrnnefit stu­dents and provide industry with long-range opportunities." 
Center information stresses the future or nanoscience. 
"Nanoscience offers new fron­tiers in engineering devices on a molecular level that are well on their way to ushering electron­ics into the next century," said the literature. "[It] is a vital field for the next generation. v\'hal is at stake is not solr.ly logic func­tions -computers -but lighter and stronger cars, planes, a reduction in energy needs -a technological revolu­tion." 
One current project involving Notre Dame facul.tv in the realm of nanoscience coi1cerns devel­oping a new type of computer chip based on a system called quantum-dot cellular automata. The new technology aims to cir­cumvent problnms with current microchip technology by using quantum dots -structures that confine a single electron -to create electrical signals instead of transistors. 
"In the summer of 1997, [a Notrn Dame] tnam demonstrat­ed the first rnal nanodP.vice, a prototype of a quantum-dot cell that validated the proposnd operating principles. The University was and is the only research facility to have accom­plished this feat, something many of the tnam's counter­parts said coulrln't be done," explained the litnrature. 
"Notre Dame has dBveloped this area of nanod.evices," said Wolfgang Porod of the depart­ment of electrical engineering in the information. "We now have a strong core competency and expect to expand this, as well as explore otlrnr concepts in nanoscience and technology." 
empowered to act," she said, explaining that more special­ized information can become less practical. 
Hellwig also pushed for Catholic intellectuals to sµa11 their studies across sr,veral dis­ciplirrns. 
"We need to educate in such a wav that the various fields are integrated," she said. 
The goals of individual stu­dents also present a problem, according to Ilellwig. 
"The prnssure Ion students! to professionalize quickly is really a pressure towards con­
ular level." 

Thn center will l'ocus specifi­cally on nanoelnctronics, the study of molecule-sized ele­ments. J\t present this field is under the direction of the eh~c­trical engineering department. The Clmter will include faculty representing the departments of electrical engineering, rnmputcr science and engimiering, chem­istry, biochemistry and physks. 
"The ... center will investigate t.lrn principles of' nanosciences, 
OK Caml"f• 

Jlfflior Parmt Wukfflb Special '.februant 11-21. lOOD 
Come earfy; stay late, same price! 

Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms available for your parents. Weekend cost is $60.00 per parent. Whether you stay Two, three. or four ni{tlts. Rooms are available Thursday through Sunday. 
For reservations, caU 219-631-7512. 

Attention all Juniors: 
Summer Internship Opportunities 
The Environmental research Institute, a joint activity of Notre Dame & Argonne National Laboratory (ANL), in collaboration with the Center for Environmental Science & Technology, will award up to two Summer 2000 internships at ANL in argonne, IL-with a follow­up campus research appointment in the Fall. Stipend, room & board are provided for the 10-week pro­gram. 
Student applicants .,;lw1dcl hm·e re.~earch i11teres1.1· i11 w, enviro11menta/ly­1·efarecl discipline {any field r~fsnuly) concemed wi1h or likely ro con­tribute to rhe u11dersta11di11g, asses.rn1e111, or im11rol'eme11t ofthe environ­111e11t. Applica111s mus/ he US citizens or pem1w1e111 reside11t.\, 1mrolfed 

ANSWER * 
ell Notre Dame. have completed their Junior Year hy May 2000, and he 

THECALL W 
registered to retum i111he Fall of2000. 
For more details, contact the Center for Environmental Science &

' 
I ' 
Technology: 152A Fitzpatrick hall, 631-8376. Applicants will be required to complete an application. 


www.nd.edu/-vocation
Application deadline is February 23, 2000 











orld 


Tuesday, Fc:bruary 15, 2000 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Goldfish blender art exhibit upsets animal activists 
COPE'\i!IAGEN, IJ,mmark 

Tlw art display at thP snrnll museum in wPstl·rn Dl'nmurk l'calurcs IO golcll'ish. each swimming in its own bhmdnr. The catch: each blundPr c,rn bP tur1wd on. dPpPnrling on the viewt>r's whim. The disµlay, which opened Friday. has causi'd outragP among animal rights ac:tivists and drawn unusually large nowds to tlw Trapholt ,\rt :Vlusoum. Two fish wPrP h!PndPd ill tlw opPning. anrl police ord1,recl tlw plugs pulled after a local group. tlw Union for tlw l'rotcctiou of Animals. rom­plainNI. Ylusi•um dirPctor PP!Pr Mey0r said !in· mun\ fish were bll'ndPd 011 Sunday. Fi\ e survivin!!; l'isll wen• also stolen from their blPndl'r aquariums ovPr the week.-ud. 
U.S. delegation to discuss 
cocaine production in Colombia 
1m<;OTA. Colombia ,\s 1ww ligurns show<\d a 20 percent rise in Colombian cocainP production. a high-level 
U.S. cl!!h!gation met t\lonclay with leaders of this turbul!'nt nation to discuss a drug-11ght­ing aid packagP. Tlw visit vvas led by Thomas l'ir'.kering. the Stat<: DPpartment's third­ranking official. It canw as the C.S. Congress was op1'ning dP!rnte on the proposed two­yt!ar. $1 .(> billion aid package that would dramatically Pscalatn tlH! war on drugs in C:olmnbia. l'rimarily a military aid plan, the packagP inrludes (d lrnlicopt<1rs and thfl training and Nfuipping of two new army l'.ountt,r-drug battalions. It aims to give Colombia Uw firepowm·. mobility and intelli­gt!llCP to clP.f°nat leftist r!'IJels ,vho protect drug crops. Tlw Andean rnuntry solidified its place last year as tlw world's principal sourr1• of cocai1w. according to new figures rnrnpi!Pd by tlw CIA. 
Former hostages return to Afghanistan after hijacking 
KA~DAIIAH, Afghanistan 

DozPllS of !'onrn,r hostages, about half the passPngi•rs aboard a hijack<,d jl'tliner , n•tunwcl hom<~ Mondav to a hero's \\PlnJml\, kissing thP sandy sofl of Afghanistan and 1i('l'l'pting chocolatPs and turbans l'rom a \\ailing official. h11bracing the Taliban's Fon•ign MinistPr VVakii .\hnwd Muttawakil. thl'y gm·p thanks for thPir sar(' rr'turn and nn Ptld to 1.lw ord<·al that bl'gan FPb. 6 in tlw 
\fghan rapital. Kabul. and P!Hl<>d in Britain. ··This is Ill\ homP. 1 low it v1'rv mui·h" said .fuma 1'lrn1;_ who stPpfwd off th;\ aircral't und kissPd tlw ground..\t tlw airport in soutlwrn Kandahar. \lulta\\akil gn'<'tPd thP 7:1 r,,rurning pass,.ngPr" with an l'lllbracP and a 11,•11 ..;hal1,·ar kanWI'/. llw traditional .\fghan 
cl l"<'~S. 

/)( )\\ '-\JI\:
~·•~.-J~ 

/, i\,t_\ 
U_J I' • \a~ti.iq: 
-1-4 l S. ::;,
._,_,,1 '"'14illil' 
\,SE 

~· 
605.09 
(}.(i ~ 
s~1;: I' sou: CompositeI Jli9. 9-t Volume:
•

I0~519.84 2.x= I, 128.539.l l 0 
VOLUME LEADERS 

COM.PMfl TICKH \ CJ:t.ANGE i CHMfCi PUCE 
NICROSOl"T COPJ,, M$P''l' -0 .J2 --0,32 99.li~ PAC C".f:m"'!JR~ CY13 PCCLF -.l.5.02 -0.55 J.65 CISCO SY~S csco -0.'3J -o.u 100.50 . lttt.L ~ DELL -1.18 -o ,44. 36.U i'HI:.LI.E' MONLl:S C 110 -0, Cf -0.l:Z ltl.9il. ".l:RA.CL!' CORP OCt -HI .19 .;.2 .. 50 62.19 
l.NTEL CORJ> XNTC +3.70 +4..00 109.88 J(U'l CORR COMS -+7.52 ..., . 69 67 .00 LOCH HJUL"ll.lS IN: LOCH -6. 58 -0.20 2.84 19:::I WORl.DCal IN WCOM -0. 6J -0.J;J; 50.06 
COMPILED FH0M THE OBSEHVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

son, who was pinned under a wash­and dig through the rubble." said
Associated Press 

ing machine, and they crawled out a Grady County Administrator Rusty 
CAMILLA, Ga. window. Moye. 
Tornadoes slashed through south­Newsome estimated that 50 to 60 Moye said the twisters leveled 
west Georgia early today, killing at homes were demolished, 90 percent houses in his county, damaged farm 
least 22 people and injuring more of them mobile homes.· Aerial pho­buildings and scattered trees across 
than 100. tos showed the entire neighborhood highways. 
The Mitchell County town of Camilla was flattened. tvlitchell County Hospital said it 
appeared to be hardest hit, with a tor­Fourteen people died in Mitchell treated as many as 100 people, but 
nado cutting a five-mile path through County, said Liz McQueen, a Red had to send many of them to other 
a housing development south of tovvn. Cross representative working at a cities because of a power outage. 
"It's like somebody took a bulldozer temporary morgue in Camilla. Seven Three people, two of them children. 
and l1weled it," volunteer firefighter \Hre confirmed dead in Grady were listed in critical condition at 
Mikie Newsome said. He and his County and one in Colquitt County. Tallahassee Memorial Hospital in 
father had watched a large dark fun­Onlv two victims, Marianne Florida. 
nPI doud dip down about three miles McClelland, 64. of Pelham. and Willie Nelson said his three-bed­
from tlwir h,llls<. near Camilla. about Shannon Harrell, 28, of Camilla. had room house near Camilla was carriPd 
200 milns south or Atlanta. been identified by midday. about a quarter of a mil<· by the 
"All vou heard ,nts a roar, woo­Search and rescue teams went storm. but he only suffered abrasions. 
WDO-,;oo." said Johnnv .Jones, into the area to look for mori' dead "The whole house came up and I 
whosP mobih· home south ;)f' Camilla and injun·d. came up with it," said Nelson. 41. ··1 
was lifted up and thrown on its sidP. "You just don't know until you was just praying to th!' Lord to takn 
!IP said lw f'rPPd his 14-yPar-old turn over all the trees and housPs care of mP." 
Romania won't pay for cyanide spill 
"H"rn;rni;i bad ti, ,uff,-r rr,,r:1 th,· IJ,,111.dw at t!w I 11 < • I U ,'" i"·,! 1 • I II I" i1 . 
· ;,,. •li< 0:-, diilll:1~1· rro111 tlw h•·l;.;(.tiW ,.:11!Jurh or 1<'1111111. tlll)i.lJ)\\ !iii; ... tll1l .! '.\:i._, 
:~·:~_:I\ \flt·. \·u~;•~ !:_\_ ;,l ,,Ji,iin,: 1·Dmp;rny a11d tlrns Jln,\11s1 r,•:tn1. ,, :; ii'r purnp~ r1•:1t1,· 11i lii,1 1 ~lu11~:11·_\· 
:; i~r;._ij~tn c..;H·d \!pndi.t· 

. :,. ,'!il;lll•d Ing.. , n;111p,•11-,1,•rp ,;:liut 11['1' ill 111P and li"m:,nia ::1! ,1i1I; .,.1_ n1ud ::q'd ;r:!·\• ~·t~liljH_~:~s:J-:-;:t1 ·,,,, "" l!trng;1r:, and B0l~rad,, ,HP a to,\ n ,i1· Llw -;pdl ;rnd -., ;,(d,: --;P1td 1i,,,, 1 " ; ; n \ .,, h,·r · "unI n· 
~· ugo~ lnsia ct!"<'. said \ inca. and authorities its top !•ll\ lr,,lllll<'Ill 11ffl­dT,-rtl'd '') :, cyanidf' spii1 :,abrinl Dumitrascu of tlw anntl1m1·('d thl'Y ,voul<.1 •·ial to ass1•ss llti• danwg,•that ,·ontaminatl'd iwn Homanian \,1inisfrv or dPlivHr rrnsh drinking wawr Tim U.N. Environnwnl 
ri\'t't'S -a spill rivaling 011P 

Environment. -by truck us a precaution. Program, a!'tcr n·rl'iving a 
in tlw tniu,d StatPs that S1!rbia, the largp,r of two IIunga.ry and Snrbia havn numb£'!' of rPqucsts, said rnst Sl 70 million to clP,rn 
republics in Yugoslavia. demanded that Romania EXl\!'UtiYP Dircrtnr Klaus up. ba1111ed the sale of most pay c111111rnnsation fur tlrn Toepfer had askPd scit>u­Homania said it. loo. sut'­freshwarnr fish Monday, damagP. and the Serbs have tists in the area to take forl'<l damag<J wlwn a clam and llungary warned ~f threatened to sue Bucharest water samples from the 
at tlw Australian-owned 

long-term ecological dam­if their demands are not Danube, Europe's longestBaia \.fare gold mine in agf' as cleanup crews in the mel. river. northwest Romania over­
two countries pulled thou­"We will demand au esti­The Humanians accused i'lowed Jan. :rn. sending sands of dead fish from the mate of the damage and llungary and SPrbia of cyanide pouring into 
Tisza and Danube rivers. that the culprits for this exaggerating the damage, streams that eventually car­Serbian fishermen. wear­tragedy be punished," Serb as did Brett Montgomery, ried the poison west into ing protective gloves, 011 Environment rvti11ister chairman of the gold 
Hungary and Yugoslavia. Monday scooped dead fish Bratislav Blazic said. m.ine's owner. 
YUGOSLAVIA
Reagan library gets 

NATO warns ethnic Albanians
campaign funds 

Associated Press 
WASIII~GTON 

The six-figure surplus in Ronald Reagan's 1984 cam­paign committee is being transferred to the former 
president's library in California. 
Tim non­prof i L Honald H e a g a n Presidential Foundation. 


w h i c h Reaganfunds pro­grams and exhibits aL the library, already has received some of the monPy and will be getting the rest. execuiive director Mark Burson said. As of Dec. 31, Reagan-Bush '84 had $495.857 in the bank, Federal E!Pction Commission records show. Reagan's chief of staff. Joanne Drake, said the library received the money afler The Associated l'ress reported .Ian. 28 that the cctmpaign commit­tee was operating 15 years after Heagan's last run for president. "It's great," Drake said Monday. "It Lthe money) is where it should be right now. It's where it always should have been." 
She said the Reagans were unaware that the committee was still operating until receiving queries from tlrn AP. 
The AP reported that the committee did littJe but receive interest and dividends on its money, pay taxes, and pay its treasurer, Longtime Reagan loyalist Bay Buchanan, sevPral thousand dollurs a year in consulting fees. 
Buchanan is the sister of 
Reform Party presidential 
candidate and former Reagan 
White House spcechwriter Pat 
Buchanan. 
Former Attorney General Edwin Meese III, a trustee or tho campaign committee, had said in January that the money eventually vrnuld go tu tho Hcagan library. 
It is unusual for a presiden­tial campaign committee tu n~main open so long. Georgfl Bush already has closed his 1992 committee, as has President Clinton. John Glenn's presidential commit­lee is the only other one still operating from 1984, and lrn has kept his open so he can continue to raise money to pay off debts. Heagan's committee had no debts. 
Reagan, who lives in Los Angeles, is in declining health due to Alzheimer's disease. He disclosed in 1994 that he had the incurable brain disorder. 
Trump abandons White House run 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Donald Trump said Monday that he would not nm for presi­dent because the Reform Party is too shattered to support a White House hopeful. 
"The Reform Party is a total mess," Trump said on NBC's "Today." "I will not be running." 
The New York real estate tvcoon, who had flirted for months with the prospect of running on the third-party tick­et, said he made his decision in large part because his ally, Minnesota Gov. Jesse Ventura, had split from the party on Friday. 
But Trump also indicated that the Reform Party is a long shot at being influential this presi­dential election year because of the nation's economic prosperi­ty. 
"In good times, you don't get reform parties to do very well," added Trump. 
His refusal to run leaves only one famous name seeking the Reform nomination and the $12.6 million in federal funds available to its nominee: former Republican Pat Buchanan. 
Reform Party leaders scoffed at Trump's candidacy from the start. saying it was an ego trip and effort to promote his casi­nos, his public speaking career and his book, "The America We Deserve." 
"We don't tolerate self-pro­moters," sniffed newly-installed Reform Party Chairman Pat Choate. "Donald Trump's role in this was to smear Pat Buchanan." 
LEADERS 
Full-time college student or 
graduate. Starting salary, 
$32,000. Post offer mental apd -physical screening. 
I 
Marine Officer Programs Call toll free for an interview 1-877-299-9397 www.MarineOfficer.com 
Associated Press 

KOSOVSKA MITROVICA 
Al.tacks by ethnic Albanians on the peacckeepMs S(l>ni to Kosovo to protect them could undermine supµon for tile peacekPeping mission, :-JATO's chief' said !\lundav. 
NATO Secrctarv-Gcrieral Lord Georgo Hobe.rtson con­demned Sunday's attack by Albanian snipers that wound­ed two French soldiers and said the alliance would not tolerate further violence against its troops. 
·•1 would remind all parties in Kosovo that it was NATO that put an end to organized ethnic cleansing and has worked to restore peaco and stal.iility for all ethnic groups in the province," Hohertson said in Brussels, Bdgium. 
Some 50,000 peacekeepers were sent to Kosovo after last year's 78-day Western bomb­ing campaign forced Yugoslav President. Slobodan Milosevic lo halt a crackdown on ethnic Albanians. Some 10,000 eth­nic Albanians were killed and 900,000 were forced tu flee their homes. 
However, the peacekeeping mission has shifted over the last eight months from facili­tating the return of refugees to protecting Serbs and Gypsies from reprisal attacks bv ethnic Albanians. 
,ThP flthnir:ally divided city of Kosovska Mitrovica has been the center of much or the rncent turmoil. Kosovo's most multiethnic city has been wracked by violence since a Feb. 2 grenade attack on a U.N. bus killed Lwo elderly Serbs. 
The city appeared calm Mouday, a day after 11ghting erupted b<>tw1w11 French sol­diers and snipors. French and who mourners said was killed Sunday by French troops. Speaking at the funeral, Halit Barani. hflad of thfl ethnic Albanian Human Bights Council, accused the French of being "the same as the Serb soldiers." 
The chief U.N. administra­tor, Bernard Kouchner, renewed his appeal for morn 
U.N. police to prevent the province from exploding. 
"KFOR soldiers have benn formidable, particularly the 

Belgian troops sealed off "Clearly more needs to be an ethnic 
done to restore stability 

Albanian 
under these exceptionally 

enclave in the Serb dangerous and challenging part of 
circumstances." 

town and searched housc-to­James Rubin 
house !'or state Department spokesman weapons 
a n d 
French," s a i d Kouchner, a formr-r f r c n c h Callinet minister. "Bul it is not their job to do p O ] i C e work." 
T h o Unitfld 

snipers. 
About 6,000 ethnic Albanians demonstrated peacefully Monday in Lipljan, about 25 miles southeast of Kosovska Mitrovica, to protest violencfl in th11 provinc<1. 
Meanwhile, about 3,000 ethnic Albanians turned out Monday for the funeral of a former Kosovo Liberation Army fighter, Avni Haredini, States condemned the latest violence, blaming both ethnic Albanians and Serbs for the incidents in Kosovska Mitrovica. 
"Clearly more needs to be done to rnstore stability under these exceptionally dangerous and challenging circumstances," State Department spokesman James Rubin said. 


For Delivery, call Delivery times 6pm lam everday. 
Tomassito•s 

Offer valid on any Tuesday of Spring SmI1111tster 2000. Prices valid from 
10: 30am 'I'uosd.a.y morning until l:OOam Wednesday morning. 
1-4777 

Tuesday, February I5, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
2 Columbine students found dead in restaurant 
Associated Press 
LITTLETON, Colo. 

Two Columbim1 High sweet­hearts were found dead early Monday after a shooting at a sandwich shop within sight or their school, compounding the lwartbrnak in thP community that suffr:rcd th1! worst school shooting in u.S. history. 
The bodif~s of !'Jicholas 
Kunselman, 15, and Stephanie Hart, 16, were discovP-red inside the Subway shop where Kunsfllman worked. Investigators did not disclose a motive but ruled out mur­der-suicide. 
Jefferson County sheriff's spokesman Steve Davis said the cause of death had nol been dotermined, and he said he did not know whether a wcaoon had been found. 


ON NATIONAL TOUR -PERFORMED BY THE ACTING COMPANY . TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2000 • 7:30 p.m. SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE • O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
For ticket information contact the 1M8//,jj:tJ~'~Saint Mary's box office 284-4626 ~~:::,t~. 
Investigators were reviewing a 
videotape from a surveillance 
camera inside the restaurant. "I hope it was just a rob­bery," said one of Kunselman's co-workers, J.J. Hodack, 22. "I've had more than enough of this. This stuff needs to stop... The shooting was the latest 
in a string of tragedies that 
have hit the Denver suburb 
since teen-age gunmen Eric Harris and Dylan Klehold killed 12 students and a teacher at Columbine on April 20 and then committed suicide. Classes remained in ses­sion Monday, but at least 100 students stayed away. Students said some of those who did attend could be seen crying in the hallways. At least 25 counselors were kept busy most of the day, said Betty Fitzpatrick, health services director for the school district. "It reminds me of every­thing. It's just like flash­backs," said Nathan Vanderau, an 18-year-old senior who knew some of the victims of last year's shooting as well as Monday's victims and is in counseling. Friends said Hart enjoyed sports but was quiet and didn't go out much except to stop by the sub shop to see Kunselman. He had worked at the sub shop for only a month but had won the manager's confidence and 
often was assigned to close the restaurant at 10 p.m., Ilodack said. 
"Obviously, our boss trusted him. He's a good worker," he said. · 
A Subway employee driving past the store noticed a light inside the store about 1 a.m. Since tho business was sup­posed to be closed, the woman stopped, wont inside and dis­covered the bodies. 
As investigators worked inside the shop about two blocks from the high school, Columbine students and rela­tives of the victims gathered in the parking lot, placing bou­quets just outside 
Columbine last year but did not know if either was there when the massacre occurred. 
News of another shooting in Littleton resonated in the Statehouse in Denver, where the House debated gun restrictions that were drafted in part because of the (:olumbine massacre. 
"It's horrifying to me," said House Minority Leader Ken Gordon, a Denver Democrat who sponsored some of the measures. "We are not getting it done. We are not protecting the people of the state." 
Several other incidents have added to the uneasy feeling in 
the commu­
nity. 

police lines. In October,
"Every week, there's

They also the mother wrote chalk something that happens of a student 
memorial here. This is supposed to partially par­
messages. alyzed in the
be a normal community." 
"Every massacre week, there's shot herself something Daniel Baker to death. that happens On Feb. 1,
Littleton resident

here," said the body of Daniel an 11-year• Baker, who old boy was brought three friends to deliv­found in a trash bin within er flowers. ''This is supposed blocks of the school. No to be a normal community." arrests have been made. 
Courtney Scott, an 18-year­Last week, a Florida man old cousin of Hart, placed a pleaded guilty in Denver to heart-shaped bouquet of flow­sending a Columbine student ers with a banner reading, "I an Internet message threaten­love you," outside the shop. ing to finish the massacre. She said Hart was not at The threat prompted officials Columbine the day of last to close the school for the year's shooting. Christmas holidays two days 
A school spokesman con­early. He faces up to five firmed both victims attended years in prison. 

page 8 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, February 15, 2000 
The Gender Studies Program Presents: 
As a 2000 Provost's Distinguished Woman Lecturer 
Anne Fausto Sterling 
Prof. of Biology and Women's Studies Brown University 
Public Lecture 
"Beyond Nature vs.Nurture: 
Gender, Race, and Sexuality" 
Tuesday, February 15, 2000 
7 p.m. 

Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Reception to follow 
Co-sponsored by the College of Science Funding Provided by the Office of the Provost 
\.IU-..t...,_ ..... t.at..LL•s.al. .. •I .-i ••• ••• 

Abortion rights group supports Gore 
gay rights group. 

Associated Press 
In the past. Michelman has 
0 N S 
70 different areas of study. 

Domino's Pizza 
Large 
One 
Topping Pizza 

WASIIINGTON 
A powerful abortion rights group will endorse Vice President Al Gore, who has been criticized by his Democratic presidential rival Bill Bradley for his mixed recor-d on abortion early in his political career. 
T h e 

Gore
endorse­ment by the National Abortion and Reproductive Rights Action League [NARAL] gives Gore a boost on what has been one of his most vulnerable issues in his nomination contest with Bradley, a former New Jersey senator. NARAL president Kate Michelman will deliver the endorsement Tuesday in Washington, said spokesman Will Lutz. 
The two candidates have been battling to attract core Democratic voters, from blacks to women, where Gore holds a strong lead over Bradley, according to national polls. 
To that end, the vice president has been aggressively soliciting endorsements with groups such as NARAL that had hoped to remain neutral in the Democratic contest. Gore wrung a similar endorsement for his candidacy last week from the Human Rights Campaign, a large 
said that both Gore and Bradley 
are reliable supporters of abor­
tion rights. She has also said she 
is confident in Gore's support for 
abortion rights now. even though 
he cast a series of anti-abortion 
votes when he was in Congress. 
Abortion has often been an 
issue in the Republican presiden­
tial primaries, with candidates 
trying to prove they are suffi­
ciently against abortion. But 
rarely has the issue divided 
Democrats running for ofiice. 
Gore has said that he's always 
been pro-choice and believed 
abortion should be legal, saying 
he only had reservations about 
government funding for abor­
tions for poor women in 
Medicaid. 
But as the details of his record 
emerged, he was forced to admit 
that his position has changed. 
In 1987, he said in a letter to a constituent that abortion was "arguably the taking of a human life." And in 1984, he voted to define the word "person" under four existing civil rights Jaws to include "unborn children from the moment of conception." 
The National Right to Life Committee gave Gore an 84 per­cent approval rating for anti­abortion votes he cast while in the House. By contrast, NARAL rated Gore's House career decid­edly "anti-choice," 
Bradley has tried to capitalize on the issue. He ran a TV ad in New Hampshire calling himself the only presidential candidate who "has been pro-choice for everyone all the time." 
Every Tuesday 

Call todav and 11am-2am Sun-Thurs
211-0300

mention this ad!! 11am-3am Fri-Sat 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
f'.O. Ru, Q. N"tre D,une. IN 4M% 024 Sl'lltrh Di11111~ H.d!. ~orre D.1me. IN 46556 
EDITOR l"l CHIEF Michd!t Krupa 

MAN.\GING EDITOR  BUSINESS MA.'IAGER  
M. Shannon Ry.rn  D,1vid Rogero  
Assr. MANAGING FDITOR  
Laura l'erdle  

NE\X·s EDll'OR, Tim Logan VIEWP0JNT EDITOR, Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EOJTOR: Flrian Kessler 

Sc!'M' EDITOR: Michid Vanegas SAJNT M1Rv's EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MA!-.AGl'R: Brpn Luu. 
Ao DE.~IGN MANAGER: 1:lrer Hudar SYSTEMS ADMINISTR.HOR: Michad Revers WEil AJ.)MINISTRAT0R, E1·1k Kushro 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lme GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mudler 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENER.AL INFO............. 631-7471 
FAX . .63 1-6927 
ADY-ERTISING....................................63 J-6900/8840 abserve,@d;1rwi11.cc.11d.e.du EDITOR IN CHIEF.......................................63 l-4542 MANAGING EDITORiAssT. ME............... .....631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE... .. .................631-5313 NEWS.. ..........................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWl'OINT ................................631-5303 observer .viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS....... ................................. 631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE........ . ................................. 631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.eJu SAJNT M,un-'s.. . ... . . ... ... .. . ......... .. ....... .631-4324 
observer.smc l@nd.eJu PHOTO ........................................ 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMil'\ISTRA TORS ..... 63 J.8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire ar http://obser11a.11d.ed11 for Jail)' updates ofcampus news, spons, ftatures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associ,ned Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-ro-rhe 
movies/music for 

n1inure forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
online features for spe­

advertise for policies 
and rares of print ads 
cial an1pu-s coverage 
about The Observer

archives ro se1rch for 
artides published after 
ro meer ,he editors and 

August l'l'l'l 
sralf 

POLICIES 
The Observer is che independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe srudenrs ofrhe Universiry ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by polic.:ies ofthe administration ofeirher insrirution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on conrenr. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Ediror in Chief, Managing Ecliror. Assiscmr Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views ofrhe amhors ,nu! not n~ccssarily those ofThe Obse,ver. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression oL,11 opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must indude conrnl[ infon11ation. 
Q11estio1t, regarding Obrt:rwrpolines ,houMI,,, ,/irea­ed to f::.ditor ;,, Chief'Mh·hell, Kmp,1. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 
Tuesday, February 15, 2000 


GOP allows anti-Catholic bigotry 
"One of the greatest challenges facing Fundamentalists and biblical Chrislianity in the 21st Century is to stir evangelistic enterprise in fulfillment of the Great Commission," says Bob Jones University presi­dent Bob Jones III. He goes on to say in his "President's Message" on his Web site, "The diminution of evangelistic enter­prise to rults which call themselves Christian, includ­ing Catholicism and l\lormonism, is frightening." 
Frightening'.:' What frightens many is the Feb. 2 visit of Republican presidential contender Texas Governor George W. Bush to 13.IU to demonstrate just how conservative -and sleazy ­Bush can be in courting the bigoted, right-wing vote in South Carolina. Bush has even gone so far as to contend that Democrats and Independents will vote for his Republican opponent, U.S. Senator John McCain. because "Al Gore can beat McCain." 
Desperate men say and do desperate things in times of desperation. And Bush is presently desperate. In a national poll of Hepublir,an voters on Jan. 28, Bush led McCain 70 percent to 12 percent. Last weekend, a Newsweek poll showed Bush leading McCain nationally by 55-32 percent. 
Thus far in three primary events, Bush has won two, but McCain did not enter those two. In fact, McCain gath­ered 25 percent in Delaware whr.re he had not once stepped into the stat<'. Most troublesome for Bush is a poll showing Independents favoring McCain 55 to 30 percent. Now who was sup­posed to have the better chance of win­ning in November'? 
Tnnight McCain and Bush square off in a debate that not only may determinp, this weekend's South Carolina primary election, but the Republican nomina­tion, Both have courted tlrn so-called 

Gary Caruso 
Capital 
Comments 

"Bubba vote" by staying out of the fray over the Confederate Flag which has f1own since 1962 over the South Carolina capital building. ll is a wonder how either candidate might justify hon­oring Nazi Gestapo courage and patrio­tism ii' the swastika were flying over the next primary state's capital. 
Republicans on Capitol Hill are also embroiled in a bigotry case against Catholics. The House of Rp,presentatives chaplain is rntiring, and a search com­mittee has interviewed potential candi­dates. A Catholic priest was chosen by 14 of the 18 members of the commis­sion. However. Speaker Dennis 1-lassert (Protestant) and Majority Leader Dick Armcy (Presbyterian) chose the Presbvterian minister who was the comm"ittee's second choice. Since it has been 210 ynars -yes, more than two centuries since a Catholic held the House chaplain's position -Catholics are livid about the veto of the commit­tee's choice. 
Catholics account for 30 million vot­ers nationwide, Within Congress, morn than half of the members are Catholics. Yet ingrained bigotry pervades just below the surface of civilitv. The same can br, said for South Carc;lina's !lying the Confederate Flag -a current-day symbol for Neo-Nazi White Supremacy. a previous-day symbol for the Ku Klux Klan. 
Despite his current problems, George Bush will be the Republican nominee in November. Ilis money and party orga­nization will carry him through, but not until after the Michigan primary next Tuesday which also permits Independents to votn. Beginning with Super Tuesday on March 7. 13ush will clobbr.r McCain in closed Hepublican primaries (Bush leads 60-25 percent among Hepublicans ... so he is truly the party "insider"). 
Much to the chagrin of' Notre Dame students who thought Bill Bradley's lofty ideas could conquer party organi­zation, Al Gore will face Bush. Bush's mistakes of not repudiating the Confederate Flag and embracing Bob Jones University bigotry, along with his smug passive campaign style, will cost him the Plection (Had Rush's brothPr, 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 

Governor Jeb Bush of Florida, attended B.IU. he would have been prohibited from dating his current wife. an Hispanic, because BJU prohibits inter­racial dating.l 
Bush and the Republican Party have serious problems by associating with the likes or Jones who writes, "Christian edm:ation at BJU consists of ... regular doses of eye-opening, biblical warnings about the perils facing the church in the lattp,r days ... and of bringing the light of Scripture to open young eyes, both to what God is doing and to what the devil is doing. It is possible to rnceive acade­mic education without that light, but it is not possible to have Christian educa­tion without it." 
Jones also believes that another chal­lenge is "to deal with the departure from biblical doctrine and the corre­sponding transition to an ever-changing and ecumenical faith based upon prag­matism and accommodation to popular religious trends and emotions." 
We can count on Jones to vote Republican this fall and continue to oppose our cult of Catholicism. However, the way to beat Republican bigots is to play their own game or opposing "popular religious trends and emotions." Lnstead of supporting their attempts to place the Ten Commandments in classrooms across the nation, Democrats need to adopt one line in their convention platform. It should mandate that the teachings of Buddha bi~ displayed in lieu of the com­mandments. After all. we Democrats don't throw religious stones. but more importantly, we've already had candi­dates visit their temples. 
Gary J. Caruso. Notre Dame. '73. is serving in President Clinton's adminis­tration as a Congressional and Public Affairs Director and is currently assist­ing Vice President Gore·s White !louse Empowerment Commission. His column appears every other Friday, and his Internet address is llottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Obsen•er. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"! have tried in my time to be a ph;fosopher; but. I don't know how, 
cheerfulness was always breaking in" 
Oliver Edwards writer 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, r~ehruary 15. 2000 
How can you be bored here? 
Those four or fiyp of you ttha.nks, guysI who am regular rl"adnrs or my column know my opinion on blankl"t statements and frank. blunt proclamations of opinion. This week. I would again likP to takP advantage of this spare to make another one. Headv'' 
Anyon(i who is still whining that there is nothing to do on this rampus on the week­ends is not trying hard enough. 
This semester mv weflkends have been parkPd with things to do. These are not exclusive. seniors-only or over-21-only events: these arc public events. open to anyonl" who opts to takP advantage of' them. ,\nd frankly. noL nnough p1'oplc do. 
l.ast wc1\kend I sprnt Friday night at Late Night Olympics. I playrd volleyball. whitno­ball, sor.rnr and dodgeball, starting at 7 and going until past midnight Had any o!' my Wams bcicn rnnrc successf'ul. I (:ould have been them until 4. I spent some lime he Ip­in!-{ thr First Aid team also. keeping watch on the .1/\CC fieldhouse and the bloodthirsty volleyball games happening there, 
Lato Night Olympics is an amazing event; planning alonP must takr, many hundred hours. Ii takr.s a lot of work to figure out a schedule for 14 or 15 different sports played by a dozen t•iams. Hm:Sports chl'cks p,~oph' in, reforees events where ner,­nssary and kreps truck of" the winners and losers. All you have lo do to make, it i'un is show up with your running shoes on, and you will be rncruitPd to play. If running isn't for you. you ran play innertubP watfr polo or go kayaking or ice skate in thy rink. It's fun. Whr,n else can you play a competitive game of voll1\yball at 1:JO in thP morning? And when elsP can you watch your roommaLP slidP. around playing broomball at 3 a.m.? Tlw Special Olympics, bendiciary of the night and host of' a fiercP Olympian-vs.-n\ctor basketball game. asks a dollar donation to get in. but if you lie and say you forgot your wallet, lhPy'll !Pl you slid!'. Attendance was good. but not great. As I walkt'd in llw rront door ol' my dorm, I passed three women in tlw 24-hour span• moaning about how bored Lhnv were. Naturally. · 
Aller 1£\aving Late "light vnry early in tlrn morning, I went honw to bP<l and got up llw noxt day to go to Ms. Wizard day. Ms. Wizard Day aims to sustain the intPrest of fourth-through sixth-gradn girls in the sciPnces. It most inlluentially does so by providing ('Xampl!'S and role models. I spent the morning lis­Lr•ning to girls' lwartbPats and then lPtting them hear the lub­dubs. too. I handrd oul rubber gloves. showed off my ability lo stand on my head and answered questions about my love life (post-Valentine Pvaluation: it's slow}. 1poured juir,e and l'Nch<•d 80 pizzas from Welsh IlalL We fed the ducks a boxful of leftover pizza crusts. ll was great. 
Both men and womPn participated, helping out with labs and behind tho s1'.encs. I heard all kinds of whiners that afternoon. grousing about how bored they were and how there wasn't anything intPresting happening that weekend. Others lamented thr lark of lirkets to the Keenan Revue. as though that were the only ev1mt happening all weekend. As a Lyons Hall resident earning my kPcp as a cluster r.onsultant there isn't much l r,an say about that. 
Last W(~ckend anyone who was bored was not taking advan­tago ol' Campus' Ministry rf'treats, free music at Reeker's, bas­ketball games, transportation to !CONN to dance. the NAACP formal (which was free if you could motivate yourself to get dressed I. drop-in sports at Holf"s or thP Irish Iron Classic. I personally availed myself' of' our hall retreat and the Irish Iron Classic. Our weightlifting team consisted of four people who have lifted bPl'orP -once. at last year's IIC -and me, who not only lifted at last year's Classic but the year before also. We had a great time. despite the crack addition skills of the two ~)illon residPnts manning the women's bench. whose repeated 1nabtl1Ly to l'alculate the amount of weight on the bar led to so~e seriously bruised egos ("Wow. she did eight reps of 8:j bt'lore W!\ started. and now she can't get 80. Wait a minute .. there's 105 pounds on that bar. not 80 ... Joe! Bear! Learn to add!"). Tho whole weekend was busy. and fun. too, The onlv work WP had to do to enjoy it was walk to the JACC at 11 :30 
a.m. This was not a special. isolated weekend that just hap­pened to bt> full of things to do. This happPns every wcekncd on campus. It's a shame more people don't make use of the events on rampus. Thev would have a lot less time to whine, 
Now that I'm finished with this column. I've figured it out. \Vhen people whine tbal there is nothing to do on campus. they are ac:tually r.omplaining bemuse the entertainer of their choicP has not come to their personal dorm rooms to individu­ally amusl' them in whatever matter they would most enjoy.' "ThPre's nothing to do hert>" complaints stem from laziness. Pure and simple. 
Kale lfmrland is a senior Spanish and government major. Iler column runs eoery other Tuesday. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily lhose ofThe Observer. 

Kate Rowland 
Read this. IL may save your life 

OBSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Valentine has many meanings 
St. Valentine's Dav: a Christian festival com­memorating the martyrdom of St. Valentine on Feb, 14, AD 270. 
By the l4th century, its religious significance was overshadowed by tho non-religious custom still associated wHh the day. 
Then the word "valentine" was applied to both persons and presents still popular today. It was the custom in my early grade-school days to exchange homemade valentines with each other. I could buy a whole bag full for a dime or so. 
Acceptance of St. Valentine as the patron of lovers appears to have boen accidental. The most plausible of several theories is the medieval European brlief that birds began to mate on Peb. 14. 
This notion presumably suggested that lads and lasses should choose lovers and exchange gifts. SL Valentine, who died in defense of our Christian faith. seems to have been forgotten as a person. 
The practice of mailing homemade messages, called valentines, has commonly bt>en composed of loving expressions, but unfortunately some cards have become comic or even coarse. 
The day is often marked by social affairs of various kinds in which young people and senior citizens can participate in loving remembranr.e. 
Brother Ed Courtney February 7, 2000 

St. Valentine's Day 'sucks' 
First of all, is it really even necessary? I mean seriously, if you really love someone, what makes some day in the middle of arctic February any more spedal than any other day? If you haven't already professed your love after a few beers at Finnigan's, wbat makes you think that a candlelight dinner and some chocolates will be that special'? The bitter cold and South Bend nightlife should already be enough of a reason to stay in and get close. Valentine's Day isn't really a holiday, it's a pseudo-holiday made up by some marketing geniuses who wanted to give choco­late companies an "in-season." All the r.ommer­cialization just makes me nauseous. I almost gave up eating this week so that I wouldn't have to go to Meijer and walk past 4 billion pink hearts just for some freaking eggs. 
Secondly, what is one without a special some­one supposed to do? Sure "they" say that you can just celebrate it with other loved ones. but I personally don't think that lingerie is an appro­priate gift for the one that changed my diapers. As murh as I love my mother and all. she doesn't quite have that Victoria's Secret look anymore and besides, her day is coming up in May any­way. So. there's always the backup option of spending some time with the roommates. which might be plausible for girls. but it really doesn't cut it in an apartment of five guys. The last time I tried to cuddle with them on the couch and watch Beaches, I was kneed in the groin and tossed out into the snow. 
So in conclusion, Valentine's Day just sucks. There's no reason to love someone more today than on any other day except for the fact that "they" tell you to. People who have significant others don't need a special day. and the people who don't don't need to be reminded. Personally, I think I'd rather be shot in the a$$ with a BB gun than r.upid's arrow. At least that way I could kerp in mind what I really need to focus my spending on. namely beer and Nintendo. 
Doug Kraft Senior, Off-campus February 14, 2000 

Is ACE a noble endeavor or our last resort? 
No one can argue against the merits of Alliance Catholic Education (ACE! and other service-ori­ented projer.ts affiliated with the University of Notre Dame. Such experiences foster personal growth and altruism. Yet we find it difficult to believe that the ever-growing number of appli­cants to ACE. Holv Cross Associates and other service projects ret1ects an ever-growing desire to perform post-graduate service work. 
As irreproachable as ACE is on the University campus. we find it equally indisputable that the University has failed in providing its many Arts and Letters students with the same lucrative and upstanding positions available to its business and engineering students. Any person who has both­ered to log on to "Go Irish" knows that no posi­tions are tailored to the Arts and Letters student, even if they are "welcomed'' to apply, It is not that A&L students are incapable or unqualified lo assume professional positions immediately after graduation, But if one were to look only at the Notre Dame Career Center, ho would think that all jobs require specific training in the cor­porate or technical arenas. Are we to assume that all Williams or Swarthmore graduates are pursuing graduate degrees or service work? Obviously jobs rxist for those who have chosen to pursue a liberal art.."i eduea.tion. His the fault of o.ur University that A&L students feel compelled to seek opportunities in fields outside their edu­cation or professional goals. 
Notre Dame, while valuing tradition. has turned its back on A&L students. The college of Arts and Letters was the first college of Notre Dame and is the cornerstone of this university. As the world's premier Catholic university, Notre Damt> should pride itself on graduating students who have used their education to question morals, expand their world views and defend their values in a diverse society. In the opinion of many educators and employers. the A&L cur­riculum provides the best method of creating well-rounded, well-spoken individuals willing to make an immediate impact on the injustices in our society. ACE is neither the only nor the most effective method of achieving such goals. A&L students can and do make a difference in a wide variety of fields, if and when they are provided the opportunity. 
It seems that the A&L students at Notre Dame are given three post-graduate options: further education, corporate work or service, Many are understandably uninterested in further educa­tion. They also find that they are unqualified for the employers that recruit on campus. Service becomes the most attractive option by default. Notre Dame needs to offer its A&L students a fourth option of meaningful and appropriate employment worthy of a Notre Dame degree. 
Undoubtably, ACE is a worthwhile and com­mendable organization. But its accomplishments are minimized when many of its applicants are not offered other, equally appealing alternatives. Give Notre Dame's A&L students options after graduation, and then ACE can boast about its selectivity: 
Jake McCall 
Senior, Keough Hall February 14, 2000 
Ashley Lowery 
Senior, Off-Campus February 14, 2000 


ALBUM REVIEW 
Emo band is more than just a replacement 
ByJOHN HUSTON Scene Music Critic 
Awatch _is a very important thin!!;. 
but so 1s a watchband. 

You and tlw old one wr.rc quitP ('Om­l"ortable 1,,vith earh oth1ir until it decid­ed to wear out and brr.ak <Lpart. You arc lr.l"t with two options: c.onvrrt the wristwatch into a pol'.ktit watch or get a replacement watchband. 
fl lakes a couple ot' w1'cks to get used to a new lt>athnr watchband. Breaking it in takes a little bit or patience, but usually the change is for the bPLU:r. 
Such a transition period is currently playing itself out in thP underground indh, rock snine. Bra.id. the emo giant 
Dismemberment Plan 


from Chirngo, decidi>d to break up last August. and emo fans w1~re forced to forge onward without them. (;roups like Braid arc hard to come by; their lyrical and musical genius was truly unrival1id. If' Braid was lhc band that held the indit1 rock watch tognther. !'ans havu berm carrying a pocket watch since tlrn brrakup. 
But thnn Lhc DisnH'.mbPrmcnt Plan released its third album. Emergency & l, and suddenly <!Verything in thn indie rock community started to seem OK. Not only are th~y worthy rPplacPnwnts l'or Braid. they arc probably tlw best band in America right now. 
The album takc~s a liillP getting IISl'd to. but in the <111d the greatest albums a.re always the onns that have to grow on you. Musk that is instantly catchy gets boring and tiring tlw mine\ iL is heard. hut Dismemberment Plan seems to get frnsher and fresher. New intrica­ries and hooks to thP music on Emergency & I seem to arise during each successivr. listen. Once the music attracts your ears, the lyric·s ar<' quirk to needle the brain. 
Lyrically, Dismemberment Plan singer/songwriter Travis Morrison pre­sents an intelligent. 20-something per­spective on some of the most important subjl~cts of human existence: love and loneliness. 
Sure, other emo bands like the Promise Ring and the Get Up Kids share thesr. themes, how could vou have emo without love and lonelin~ss? The Dismemberment Plan broadens those topics. while commenting on them in a way in which few wrilers could begin to attempt, let alonr. suc­ceed. 
Musically, Emergency & l is a step in a new direction from your average indie rock/r.mo album. While other bands have begun adding keyboards to their guitar, bass and drum lineup, their music still comes out the same. 


The Dismemberment Plan uses the same instruments, but their 11nal prod­uct contains an extra ingredient: origi­nality. Brnid's music was original by being both poly-rhythmic and catchy at lhfl same time. 
But the Dismemberment Plan takes on odd time signatures. too, and its songs are equally poppy but infuse a hip hop-like aspect. Morrison takes pride in the facl that while his other bandmates were discovering punk in their childhoods. he was listening to rap. 
Varying musical influences give Emergency & I a rather unusual char­acteristic for an emo album: You can legitimately dance to it! That's quite a bold and risky thing for an emo band to do, since the most motion you can usu­
allv incite out of an emo audience is a slight. rhythmic head-bobbing. 
Travis Morrison doesn't think the Dismemberment Plan is emo. but there aren't many reputable emo bands that would allow themselves to be labeled like that. 
However. there's guilt by association. and sinr,e the Dismemberment Plan tour with emo bands and is embraced by a firm emo audience, it's certifiably emo. It's really a moot point to make. The important thing is that the Dismemberment Plan has come to indic rock's rescue. 
Some people say that rock musk has reached the 11th hour. Check your watch, because the Dismemberment Plan disagrees. It's just the dawning of a new day. 

ALBUM REVIEW 
Ghostf ace Killah revives the Wu-Tang Clan 
By TODD CALlAIS Scene Music Cricic 
From the slums of shaolin. Wu-Tang Clan strikes again. Call him Ghostface, call him Tony Starks, call him lronman, but make sure you start by calling him talented. It has been many years since Ghostfar.e Killah's solo prnject, lronman. nnd his sophomore album were delinatcly worth waiting !'or. The new disc. Supreme Clicntcle, is a hip-hop masterpiece that anyone who doubted the TTza's production capabili­ties and the Wu-Tang Clan's staying power will be listening lo with shame for years to come. After the success of early Wu-Tang solo projects by Gza, Method Man, Raekwon. Ghostface Killah and 0l'Dirty Bastard and the multi-platinum fame of the collective effort Wu-Taug forever, it seemed that producer Hza had started a dynasty that would never rail. Then the group began to be<·ome more distant and Hza stopped produc­ing many of the solo pro_jer,Ls to focus on his smaller groups like Killarmy and Sunz of Man: The Wu-Tang dynasty began to crumble. The sophomore slump hit hard with disappointed responses to Raekwon, 0l'Dirty Bastard 

and Gza's second "Mighty llcalthy" attempts. is probably 
First attempts by arranged the C-God and most interest­lnspectab Deck fell ingly: it almost on deaf ears as sounds like it was well. Hza. realized recorded in a it was time to get garage. For some back into the reason it works swing of' things, though, and the and th l\ result is song has an the brilliant album intensitv that by Ghostl'ace makes • one Killah Supreme. remember the Clicntole. days of the "36 
With an intro Chambers.'' that sets thr. tone Thesf1 are all of ar,tion/advcn­very solid solo turc for the album marks by Ghost­by making Ghost­facn Kil\ah. lie face Killah 's al.ter has one of the ego Tony Starks a most solid voices superhero. the lis­in the Wu-Tang tcn er is immedi­Clan and this atc>IY entertained. album makes 
Ghostface starts fans remember off strong with the that. song "Nutmeg," a What is also solid track with a great about this great bassline. is that we get to Then there is the hear some collab­track "Saturday Nite," which could be orations of tho Wu-Tang members: HZA the best song on the album with its style. smooth lyrics and greal musical l1ow. Tim track "Apollo Kids" brings Ghostf'ace back together with his Cuban Linx partner Haekwon to form an awe­some raw song that will appeal to any­one that appreciates flow. "Bur,k 50" starts off with rhymes by Wu-Tang All Star Method Man and later brings in Masta Killah and Wu-Tang friends Cappadonna and Redman to form an incredible hip-hop collaboration. lnspectah Deck joins the fun by mixing the track "Deck's Beat," whir,h includes a guest appearance by 60 second Assassin. 
The crowning achievement of the album is the last track "Wu Banga," which l'eatures GZA, Cappadonna and lnspectah Deck in their best form. 
It is hard to !'ind a bad thing to say about this album which is groat for all of the die hard Wu-Tang fans that havo been faithful through the good and the bad. 
Supreme Cliontcle is a great album on its own and sel<; the stage for up-and­coming Wu-Tang albums including the long awaited Masta Killah solo project, the third and final Wu-Tang collabora­tion and new discs from RZA, Method Man and GZA. Any hip hop fans will want to keep Ghostface Killah's album close by. and anyone new to the musical genre should really give this album a shot, you could be the next person to enter the swarm of Wu-Tang Clan fans. 



Tuesday, February I5. 2000 page 13 
==========================-====--=--=-==-~-:=====~==---================================================ 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Assistant rector's album is 'gold' 
By CHRISTOPHER SHIPLEY 
S(,,:c11e i'vt usi(: Criri<.: 
"Jt'.s about growing up." That is the 
wav Erik Goldsr·h miclt. ru rrnnt assista11t rnclor ol' St. Edward's I!all and f'ornH'r George> and the Frecks frontman. dcscribns his lirst solo album. appropri-. all'ly titled. Lnarning to Live. 
Thi' dght-yPar project. which linally su11 complf'Lion shortly br.l"on1 the Chrislnrns holiday. is a 12-track concPpL album whif'h dPals verv sPriouslv with some or lif"p's most ci"i!Ticull i;sucs: ang-cr. dl'pr11ssion. loss of rnla.tionships and tlH• discovPry or pt>rsorutl limita­tions. and how thesP issues arl' tran­sc•pndnd lhrough loVI'. f'ricndship and faith. 
'Tm taki1ig tlw conl!ml mon\ seriously !than anything l'vn don(' bnf'orP] Now I'm bdng more tnw to tlw source of' my music. whirh is my spirituality." said Goldschmidt. 
Tlw album is meant to challenge the listerwr lo discover faith and spirituality through pPrs,m,d rel1ection. Mur,h like U2 (who is headlining World Youth Day 2000 in Rome!, Goldschmidt's sound is generally secular with the intention of reaching members of' Lhe pop culture on the fringe without using explicit Christ imagriry. 
Goldschmidt. a graduate student .in the Master of Divinity program. b<~gan writ­ing tho music for Learning to Live in 1992 and had finished more than half of the albums tracks bPfore 1996. After four years with the popular campus band Ccorge and the Frceks, Goldschmidt took a break from writing music while participating in the Alliance for Catholic Education program. 
A prolific songwriting yo.tr follo\vr~d upon his return to Notre Dame. The 26­yea r-old finished five additional songs and an invocation for tho album. 
"l have to bave music in my life tu have balance and to bP happy," thP 1996 '.'Jotn.: Dame graduate said. 
With musical influences from classic folk rock acts, including the Grateful Dead, Neil _Young and Bob Dylan, Goldschmidt is able to weave an incredi­bly mature tapestry of lyric and sound. Driven by Goldschrnidt's acoustic guitar. each song dives head first into tackling the struggles each person faces through­out life. The result is an album which only gets better each time it is played. 
What strikes the listener most about 

the album is its amazing quality given the fact that this is an independent recording. Each song is incredibly tight and carefully crafted. The sound quality is Axceptional and the incorporation of several of Notre Dame's most talented musicians on the violin. cello. congas, mandolin and banjo only adds to the folk-rock quality of the recording. 
Since the albums· release Goldschmidt and his former George and the Freeks bandmates, bassist J.P. Hurt and lead guitarist Mark Lang, have created a new band, Intuitive Rain (taken from the Learning To Live trcick "Annuncicition") and have appMred at Acoustic Cafe. Showing no signs of performance rust, the group played a terrific set which received a great deal of attention from onlookers. Their set list at Acoustic included classic hits like Van Morrison's "Into The Mystic" and the Grateful Dead's "Jack Straw," in addition to songs from Goldschmidt's own album. 
"Why do I keep playing? Because I can't not play. Ifs just who I am." Goldschmidt said. 
Learning to Live can be purchased at the Lafortune Information Desk or by direct e-mail request to Goldschmid t.2@nd .ed u. 


HEALTH COLUMN 
How to treat eating disorders 
J::ciitor·s :Vole: In conjunction with the l lni1 1ersity Counseling Center, Scene pre­sents a series o.{fitie columns this week that highlight ealing concerns in recogni­tion ofNational Hating Disorders .'1wareness Week. 
Many individuals with <~ating concPrns ,trP highly suc:rnssful p<\opk in many arl',L'i ol' tlmir lives. Tlwy arn often among tlw brighwst studm1l'i, hold positions of leadnr­ship and authority. and no orw on campus would inilially sus­pnrt that anything 
Rita J. Donley,

w,Ls wrong. The shame of admitling Anna Uhran­that they arn not pcw­Wasierski and 
foct. that thcv arc out 
Patricia Kelly­

of control with food 
Holmes

and that they rn1cd assistancP. pn•v,~nt 
Unil'ersily

many pnoplP l'r-om 
Counseling

coming forward and 
Center

sPeking help. 
1ldp is availabk both at Notn• Dame and in th11 South Bend community. l)pp1mding on tlw typP of eat­ing concern. tlw kngth of' tinw the individ­ual has bPPll slruggling and other issuns that may also bP l'actors in a person's life (f•.g. dPpression, anxi<•ly, family cont'.Prns. drnLth ol' a lovnd oiw. relationship brnak­up. transitions to colleg<' or the rPal world. ntr.l a numblir of' profossiormls may be involV<\<l to providn assistam·n. 1\t i'lott•p l>anw, tlw Counsnling Crmt<>r and l kalth Servicns work coll,Lboraliv(1!v tu dewrmino on a ('.as<•-by-casc basis whitt would b<• appropriate. 
Typically. a psychologir,al nvaluation by a tlrnrapist and a nwdical evaluation by a physician a.rn important lirst steps. Additional rnforrals tD a psychiatrist and dintician may bP warmntnd as well. During llw assessnmnt µhas<\ profossionals involv(id d1~tPrn1ine whether resources on campus am adnqualr. to provide assL'itance or if tlrn stud1'.nt would benefit from more intPnsive lrnatment. In that t:1L'in, a ml'nrral would bo mad1i to South Uen<l community resources or a program nr.ar the student's home if'this was more desirable. 
Therapist, at t.he University Counseling Centi,r (UCC) provide assistance to stu­denL'i who have their own eating concerns as well as to familv. friends, coaches and residence hall stafl'\vho are concerned about someone's eating behavior. 
FrPquently, concerned others seek assis­tann~ at UCC much more readily than sonwone who is struggling. UCC therapists assist these individuals in determining the best way to talk to tlrn person they a.re wm-ried about It is very important to remember that an occasional skipped meal. weight loss or weight gain. overeat­ing at brunch or hearing someone vomit­ing in the bathroom does not automatically mean someone has an eating concern. 
Before discussing a concern about eating behavior with an individual, it L'> helpful to have multiple pieces of information that appear to indicatP. that this might be a pat­tern or behavior that has developed over a poriod of' time. For example. concerns about increased depression. anxiety. social withdrawal. missing meals. multiple exam­ples that suggest self-induced vomiting or laxative abuse might warrant a discussion with the individual. 
It is important to focus on the reasons one is concerned about the person and expressing care for the person rnther than diagnosing lhn problem or telling the per• son what she/he should do. Many individu­als. when ('<mfi:onted, deny the problem or get angry. Hemember that a gn~at deal of shame is involved a • ..; well as a sense of br\ing out or control. 
For most individuals. admitting the prob­lem is ditlicult. In most cases. treatment only works when the individual wanl'i it. Making people who struggle with their eat­ing got help usually backfiros in pushing the person to L'>olatc more and foe! worse. 
The hr.st-case scenario is when the indi­vidual recognizes that she/he deserves bet­ter and that their eating behavior is inter­fering with his/her happiness and the life lw/she should be having as a college stu­dent. In those cases. the individual benefits lh,m trnatnmnt. 
Treatment at UCC could consist ofsome c,r all of the following: individual counsel­ing, group counseling, and consultation with a psychiatrist and/or meetings with a dietician. Each case is different just like each eating-disordered person is different. Providing a safe place to admit the prob­lem and learn new ways of coping, think­ing and responding allow many people to move on to happier. healthier lives. 

The registered dietician disseminates nutritional information and helps the stu­dent learn how to eat normally again. This entails being free of guilt, of anger, of obsessive thoughts about food and of the fear associated with eating. The education­al process also involves teaching the client how to achieve a healthy food intake while balancing classes. exercise and socializing with friends. It is important to help dispel the disordered thoughts and behaviors while developing healthy habits that meet nutritional needs. 
Many students with eating disorders know a great deal about nutrition. The challenge ofthe registered dietician is to educate the student to think differently about food and the role it plays in his/her bodv. The treatment role involves more th~ calories, fat and protein. It includes edur,ation on metabolism and the health dangers of continued disordered eating. This process indudes coller,ting detailed information on behavior, nutrient intake and eating patterns. The student L'l provid­ed with information on food intake neces­sary to stabilize weight and metabolism including optimal food intake. how metab­olism and weight arc a[ected by dieting, undrrstanding body shape and size for overall acceptance and how the body processes nutriPnts to function normally. 
It is important to discuss how the stu­dent's body reacts to binging and purging or starvation and hydration. The long-term goal is to teach lhc student how to properly nourish his/her body so that it reaches a natural weight. The first steps include making changes that will eventually add up to a healthy way of eating. 
l\1cdical evaluation of a person with eat­ing concerns is aimed at: 1} identifying signs and symptoms; 2) screening for com­plications of disordered eating behaviors; 
3) making a plan for stabilization of the person based on abnormal findings; and 4) giving the person objective evidence of how his/her disordered eating behaviors are adversely affecting his/her health. Medical and dental history, family history and psy­chiatric and social history are obtained to look for past problems with weight or body image, yo-yo dieting, depression or obses­sive compulsive disorder. medical condi­tions such as diabetes, thyroid disease, inflammatory bowel disease, history ofsex­ual or alcohol/drug abuse or history of family members with eating disorders. 
Height and weight are measured on the initial exam so as to determine the per­son's body mass index. A physical exam is done looking for signs of low blood pres­sure and slow heart rate, low bodv tem­perature, sallow skin. enlarged glands in the cheeks and below the jaw. dental ero­sion. heart rhythm disturbances. abdomi­nal distention and neurologic abnormali­ties including troubles concentrating and signs of depression due to the disordered eating behaviors. 
Laboratory data are gathered as indicat­ed by the physical exam fmdings. Most eat­ing-disordered patients have low platelet and white blood cell counts. abnormal kid­ney function, abnormal glucose. choles­terol. electrolyte, protein, iron and hor­mone levels. Women who have stopped menstruating often have estrogfln levels below those of postmenopausal females and even below that of males! Men with eating disorders have been found to have .,. low testosterone levels. 
Bone density studies indicate bone loss due to imbalances hormonally and chemi­cally in both anorexics and bulimics. This predisposes them to stress fractures and problems associated with osteoporosis. Electrolyte abnormalities put the eating disordered person at rL'>k for cardiac rhythm disturbances so an electrocardio­gram (EKG) may also be part of the med­ical evaluation. 
The above evaluation then leads the physician to a discussion with the patient or his/her results in order to make a plan for correction of abnormalities and preven­tion of further complications, This plan always involves the collaborative efforts of the multidisciplinary team of professionals who provide treatment. 


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 15, 2000 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Connecticut rebounds with win over Seton Hall 
As,ociated Pre,, 
EAST HlJTHERFORD. N.J. 

Connectir.ut broke out of its February funk by using the old reliables of defense and rnbounding and also ·got a boost from a surprising source. sopho­more Ajou Deng, for a 59-50 victory over Seton Hall on :vfonday night. 
The 18th-ranked Huskies 118-6. 7-4 Big East) had lost two of thAir last threP games and they had to end that poor spell on the road and against No. 23 Seton Hall (18-5, 10-3), which had won five straight games and moved into the national rankings earlier in the day for the first time since 1993. 
Connectir.ut held the Pirates to 38 percent shooting t18-for-531 and outre­boundcd them 44-30 in looking more like the defending nalional champions and a program that had lost fivB confer­ence games over the last two seasons combined. 
The 6-foot-10 Deng, who had been expected to provide a lot to the team that lost All-American Hichard Hamilton. had struggled but scored in double figures each of the last two games. 
He came up big in the second half when the Huskies took r.ontrol. His jumper with 11: 17 to play gave thr Huskies thP lead for good at 40-39 and started a 15-2 run in which he also hit a hook shot on the baseline and blocked two shots. 
Kevin Freeman's free throw with 5:27 to play capped the run and made it 53­
41. Darius Lane hit a 3-pointer and made three free throws when he was fouled attempting a 3 to get the Pirates within 53-47 with 3:40 left. But the Huskies went 4-for-5 from the foul line the rest of the way, the last a free throv. that capped a three-point play for Khalid El-Amin with 25 seronds left that made il 59-48. 
Albert i\fouring had 17 points for the Huskies. while Freeman had 13 points and El-Amin 11. 
Lane finished with 17 points for the Pirates but he was just 3-of-10 from 3­point range as the lfuskies forced him a step farther from the basket than he seems comfortable shooting from. 
Oeng finished with six points, five rebounds and the two blor.ks in 21 min­utes. 
The victory was the Huskies' 13th in their last 14 meetings with Seton Hall. Connecticut won the earlier game this season, 66-56. 
Tulsa 75, Rice 33 
Eric Coley scored 18 points, grabbed six rebounds, and dished out five assists Lo help Lhe 13 Lh-ranked Tulsa Golden Hurricane stomp the Rie1~ Owls. 75-:B. at Donald W. Hoynolds Center. Tulsa (23-2, 8-1 WAC) has won 17 of its last 18 outings, while Rice (4-17, 0-9) has not posted a victory in its last 13 games. Tulsa has also won five straight in the series. 
The Owls took a 2-0 lead in this con­t.m:;t, but quickly realized that they had little rhancP to keep it close. Tulsa scored the next 15 points and did not look back. 
After securing the 15-2 advantage, Tulsa increased its stranglehold on the Owls by mounting a 16-7 run to put an end to any thought of a Hice victory. 
The Golden Hurricane took a 35-15 lead into the locker room. and Hice could only pray for a romeback. The Owls were carried by Jay Christian's seven points in the first frame. 
Tulsa was led by Marcus Hill's 11­point effort in the opening pr1riod. flo did not score in the second half. 
Hice was trailing 44-19 at the 15:55 mark in thp ser.ond. when Tulsa began a 16-4 spurt for a 60-2:~ lead at the 
8:00 point of the game. The Hurricane continued to extend their lead, and fin­ished the last five minutes of the game by outscoring Ricr. from evr.ry part of the court. 
Hice was led by Alex Bougaieff, who scornd 12 points and pulled down 12 rebounds. 
Oklahoma 62, Nebraska 52 
,I.IL Havmond and Nolan Johnson eaeh scored 14 points as 20th-ranked Oklahoma held off Nebraska in the clos­ing minutes for a 62-54 win. The Sooners (20-4, 8-3 Big 12) rebounded after a home loss to Oklahoma State on Saturdav and have won six of seven. 
The Cornhuskers (10-14, 3-8 Big 12) have lost four in a row. Larrv Florence led Nebraska with 17 points.· 
Oklahoma began to build a lead in the first hall'. and an 11-4 run put the Sooners ahead 32-1 7. The Sooners led by 15 twice before halftime. but Nebraska came back. The Cornhuskers scored the last nine points of the peri­od, as Oklahoma didn't score the final 4:48, to hit the locker room down 32­26. 
Nebraska immediately pulled lo wilh­in two at 32-30 to start the second half'. The Huskers stayed close the rest of the night, never giving the Sooners a chance to breathe. 
Foul shooting hurt Nebraska in the second half, as the Cornhuskers shot 8­of-16 from the line. 
They were within three with 2:19 to play and pulled within 54-53 with 1:00 remaining. 


Raymond came up with a big trey to give Oklahoma a 57-53 edge with 37 ser.onds left to play. Nebraska couldn't 
make its foul shots, and the Sooners hung on at the end. 
Eduardo Najera registered his 12th career double-double with 10 points and 13 rebounds for the Sooners. 

The Observer accepts classif,eds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 1.m. at rhe Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for ncxr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per d,1y, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe righr ro edir all classified, for cont<nt without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
If anyone has picked up an old gray knit glove I would actually pay 
to get it back, that is how important 

it is to me. Also, if anyone has Are you a music lover who'd found or has seen a skateboard like to pick up a few extra with a blank wood colored bottom bucks this semester? Pop in to and white wheels, I offer a reward Orbit Music at 1841 So. Bend Ave for that as well. For information call and pick up an Gavin at 4-1267 
NOTICES 
application. Find out more about an three of our stores I lost my claddagh ring (silver w/ at www.orbitrecords corn green heart) in O'Shag .. 11 you 
found it, please return it It has very FREE MONEY! special meaning to me. Shannon. ht!p:lli.am/yourireemoney 284-4419 or 631 ·454 t. 
WANTEDLOST & FOUND 

Childcare needed. ANNABELLE-YOU LEFT YOUR 1 or 2 students for 20 hrs per week ATTENTION SOUND ENGINEERS Local Sound Company has open­ings for experienced FOH engi­neers and stage hands. Call 277­0032 www.thesoundcompny.com 
GRAPHIC LAYOUT International racing publication has opening for computer graphics lay­
out person. Looking tor fresh excit• 

FOR RENT 
ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE AND CLOSE http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ email:mmmrentals@aol.com 232-2595 HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 5-bedroom. 1-bath, newly refin­
ished wood floors, $1200/month. 2) 
PERSONAL 

4-bedroom. 1 ·bath, $1000/month. 
3) 3·bedroom, 1-bath, $700. We will 
work with you on any changes you www.1he,;;QmmentatQr.,;;om 
may want made to the houses, 
including such things as pool hiHAC 
tables, privacy rences, and painting. 
Call Bill at 675-0776. Hi Brad 
ing designs to improve established magazine. Flexible hours 277-0033  6 SEDAM. '00-'01 $1200/mo. 273-0482  FOR SALE  mk  
Editor/proof reader needed to work  mshan  
with writers for national publication.  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT  New Phone Card  drive my car  
Flexible hOurs. Call 277-0033  SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND  886 mins. $20  krup  
EXCELLENT NEIGHBORHOOD  
Seeking female roommate for 00-01  CLOSE 2773097  258-4805 or 243-9361  anytime. krupa  
school yr CampusvIew Apts  At least we know the keys are in  
Approx.$250/mo + utilities. Email  B'NB REGISTRY  GREAT STUDENT CAR.  good hands next year.  
lwangens@nd.edu  219·291-7153  '88 FORD FESTJVA, BLACK, 2·  

GLASSES AND CONTACT CASE between 9 and 5 to watch 2 yr old & DR., GOOD CONDITION. MANUAL puker, confess already! IN MY CAR WHEN I GAVE YOU A newborn for ND prof in our DOG-SITTER: Love dogs? Pis. 3 ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME TRANS . 56K, AM/FM CASSETTE. RIDE TO NO FROM THE TRAIN home Experience and transporta• help me! Need a sitter for $400/MO INCL. UTILITIES FACULTY OWNED W/SERVICE Marie -We'll rock Daytona like it's STATION MONDAY. CALL 272-lion required.Some flexibility in my new puppy-esp. JPW, 1-2 EXCEPT PHONE. RECORDS. $750. a sunny day at The 'Backer. Can't 9225. scheduling possible. Please call aftrns/wk and Wed. niles. Call NON·SMOKERS. wait. chachia! 
Rose at 289-3856. Megan @ 246-0295. WALKING DISTANCE TO CAM· 237-1981. LOST · 2m2000 -Administration PUS. 288-4241. Hey, dirty Building or Lot A-9 area. WEB DESIGNER NEEDED Wanted 50 serious people to lose for sale couch with hideabed 1 /2 Karat Tear-drop wedding d1a-National Publication has opening weight, safely & effectively. 3-4 bdrm new home, lip, cathedral good condition $150 includes throw well Erin, here is your classified. mond ring. Size 5 tor designer to help improve and Natu ral/guaranteecl ceilings, 3 baths, 2-car garage, tam-and extra pillows. will deliver thanks for the one yesterday. that Priceless memories REWARDI!! maintain existing sites. 277 -0033 -www.lose-now.com ily room.$1400/mo. 616-683-5038 was pretty sly. good job babe. can't 631-4349 or 616-687-8123 www.nkn.com or 1-800-883-1569 or 219-340-1844 or 219-232-4527 phone 282-2228 wail to see you! bye 


Happy J2K! 

This Week in Campus Ministry 
Monday, February 14 through Monday, February 
103 Hesburgh Library 
Freshman Retreat #28 (Mar. 3-4) Sign-Up 
largefed dorms: Alumni, Breen Phillips, Howard, Keough, Knott, Lyons, McGlinn, Pasquerilla West, and Sorin 
Monday, February 14 through Friday, March 24 103 Hesburgh Library 
Senior Retreat #2 (Mar. 31-Apr. 1} Sign-Up 
Tuesday. February 15. 7:00 p.m. Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Wednesday, February 16. 8:00 p.m. Wilson Commons Graduate Student Bible Study Group 
Wednesday, February 16. 10:00-10:30 p.m. Walsh Hall Chapel Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Thursday, February 77, 7:00-8:30 p.m. Montgomery Theatre, La Fortune Overview of Natural family Planning 
Co-sponsored by the Office of Campus Ministry and The Na\ural Family Program of St Joseph County 
Friday-Saturday, February 18-19 Fatima Retreat Center 
Marriage Preparation Retreat 
Sunday. February 19, 5:30 p.m. joyce Center 
Junior Parent's Weekend Mass 
Tuesday, February 22, 7:00-8:30 p.m. Siegfried Hall Chapel Confirmation -Session #9 
(Par! 2) We Live What We Believe The Virtues -The Ten Commandments. Social Justice 

I I 
I~ G-Ot'Vll~.. 

... Apvll 1~~ 2-000 
The Human Face of International Debt 
The world's 41 most impovershed and indebted countries are "B I L saddled with more than $230 billion in debt. For many of '\'\;) II €-€> these countries, their debt payments to the World Bank, the ....~ International Monetary Fund (]MF), the U.S. and other donor nations, 
_,m
-~...-;!'.fl, ­

are more than four times what they spend on health and education. ,., Yet, the majority ofpeople living in the heavily indebted poor countries I earn less than $1 a day. So when their governments spend such a high I percentage of their budgets on paying back debt, they do so at the 2 O O\) expense of investing in critical health, education and infrastructure programs~ the kinds of investments that honor the dignity of every person and contribute to long-term economic growth. 
Below is one case that represents the millions of people effected by the crushing burden in debt in the world's poorest countries: 
"I am a widow. I have three children. Of course, some of them get sick now and then, sometimes they have worms, sometimes malaria, sometimes they only catch a cold. Unfortunately, the hospitals are very far away and when one of us gets sick we cannot travel there. There are some small health centers [nearby], but you have to pay for everything there. My oldest chM has a Uver problem they found at the health center. But they did not give me any medicine. They just told me to feed him sweets, such as sugar cane. It him a little bit." 
• Cleophas Banbabazi, Kyakatara, Western Uganda, in testimony given before the Austrian Service for Development Co-operation. 
DEBT FACT: The Ugandan government spends $3.00 per person on health and education and $17.00 per person annually in debt repayment. One of every jive Ugandan children dies from preventable disease before reaching the age offive. 
source: USCC, Catholic Campaign on Debt 
To find out what you can do to help, call the Jubilee Debt ReliefTask Force at 631-7949. 
Good Stuff to Know 
An Overview of Natural Family Planning 
Thursday, February 17, 
7:00 p.m. -8:30 p.m. 
Montgomery Theatre, Lafortune Student Center open to faculty, staff and students 
co-sponsored by the Office of Campus Ministry and The Natural Family Program of St. Jospeh County. Materials are available for $10. 
To register, call 237-7405. 
• An instructional 6-part series on Natural Family Planning for engaged and married couple begins on Thursday, Feb. 24, 7:00 p.m. -9:00 p.m. at the same site. The fee is $125, including materials. Financial aid is available. To register call 237-7405. 
REFLECTIONS ON 
Lenten Scripture
+ +
HOMILIES GIVEN AT THE 
BASILICA OF THE SACRED AT THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAi\1.E 
Available for $2.50 at; 103 Hesburgh Library, 112 Badin Hall, The Basilica of the Sacred Heart & Hammes Bookstore 
[ ________________ _ 

page 16 
Women 
continued from page 24 
won aft1>.r singles play, the Irish conlinued to pour it on as doublc\s play commenced. The roupling of Dasso and Varnum netted an easy 8-3 win, while the pairing of Guy and freshman Katie Cunha was rarely tested, winning 8­4. 
"It's nice to see us play well in doubles, even when the out­come has alrradv been decid­ed." Louderbark noted. "We were able to stav focused." 
,\ftcr moving its record to '-1­1 in beating Maryland. Notre Dame took to the courts Sunday in hopes of extending its winning streak against Illinois. 
The Illini proved to be no match for the Irish jugger­naut. The Notrn Dame women dropped just one match in bat­tering their opponents 8-1. 
Once again it was Dasso who led the charge. posting an easy 6-1. (,-1 victory over Illinois' Eldina Dazlic. 
Green continued her fine play, scoring her sixth win in as many singles matches as she knocked of'f Michelle Webb in straight sets. 
Varnum, Zalinski and Guy all won easily. while sopho­more Nina Vaughan lost a tough three-set marathon, the only defeat for the Irish all weekend. 
Having last played two weeks before against Yale, Louderback was worried that his troops might be a bit rusty. His fears quickly eased as the Irish women won nearly every 
The Obseruer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 15, 2000 
SOCCER 
Kuwait defeats 
Bhutan 20-0 


battle, and more importantly. said. both wars. The Irish return to the 
Kuwait scored 10 goals in each hal[ Sangay Dukpa (hand ball) and Kazang Norbu (rough play) or Bhutan were ejected. 
J\.1-lluwaidi scored in the 16th, 35th (penalty kick) and 39lh minutes, Nuhair al­Shimmir in the 19th, Abdullah in the 20th, 23rd. 38th and 45th (penalty kick/. al-Mutairi in the 21th and Fawaz Bckhcet in the 31st. 
In the second half. Abdullah ronnerted in the 48th. 50th. 59th, 87th, al-Mutairi in the 51st and {12nd. al-I luwaidi in the 52nd (penally kick) and 57th, Issam Sakeen in the 65th and Ahmed .lassem in the 76th. 

"It was big to get two nice courts this weekend to com­wins over solid teams, espe­pete in the USTA/ITA National 
WHISTLE PIGS 
cially since we were off a cou­Team Indoor Championships 
POPULAR LOCAL R & B, IAZZ, AND I\OCI< BAND
p I e of weeks," Louderback in Madison, Wis. 

FOR TICKFT'INFORMATION CONTACT 184-AL '6 
THE SAINfMARYS BOX OFFICE r--.u~ 

Associated Press 
KUWAJT Not all international soccer is low-scoring and defensiwi. 
In perhaps the largest rout nver in national-team play, Kuwait d(ifeated Bhutan 20-0 Monday in Croup Five qualify­ing for the Asian Cup. 
Bashar Abdullah scored eight goals, Jassem al­Huwaidi f'ivr, and Ahmr,d al­Mutairi three. 
It was not immediately dear if the total was a rrccord for a game involving national teams. The record in World Cup play is 17, set by Iran in a 17-0 win over the Maldives in a qualifier on June 2. 1997. 



is now accepting applications for the THE following positions on the 

1999-2000
BSE 

General Board 
AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and market­ing departments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer netwo,king. The Systems Manage, maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the nse of the system. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a sophomore or junior majoring in accounting or finance at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's opaating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost­tracking and other transaction duties. 
WEB i\DMINISTRATOR Applicant must be familiar with building and maintaining a World Wide \Veb site. The Web Administrator is responsible for working with the editorial department, ofThe Observer in order to update the site each day. GRAPHICS EDITOR Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and a working knowledge of Free Hand and/or Adobe Illustrator. NEWS EDITOR Applicancs should have a solid journalism background and good people skills. 
AD MANAGER 

Appli(.'ants .should be a business nujor at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's with experi~ncc in ad sales. The Ad Manager must have people skills in order to oversee an ads staff. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and a thorough knowledge of sports journalism. 
V1EWPOINT EDITOR 
Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and the ability to manage a staff of editors and columnists. PHOTO EDITOR Applicants shoul,l have solid Macintosh experience and a thorough knowledge of journalism and photography. SCENE FDITOR Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and a desire to creating interesting entertainrucm rdated features and managing a staff. 
Any fall-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dtzme or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. A three-page statement ofintent and a resume must be 
submitted by Thursday, Feb. 17 to the basement ofSouth Dining Hall. 
Tuesday, i-;ebruarr 15, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Come to Me all you who labor and are heavily burdened, And I will give you rest ... 

I make a holy hour each day in ihe presence ofJesus in the Blessed Sacrament. All my sisters ofthe Missionaries ofCharity make a daily holy hour as well, because we find that through our daily holy hour our love for Jesus becomes more intimate, our love for each other more under­standing, and our love for the poor more compassion-ate... " 
-Mother Teresa 

Jesus is here with us in the Euchari$t to give us answers.: answers that will lead us to truth, happiness and peace .. In this culture of death, it is easy for people tQ become weary and indifferent to God and His gift of life. · People often fall short of their·obligation to care for and nurture the spiritual and physical lives of themselves and others. Eucharistic Adoration gives a person the opportunity to nurture his own spiritual life, as well as the spiritual lives of others (through• prayer for them.) Prayer.also protects the physical lives of those endangered by abortion, euthanasia and other fonns of violence. This is because, it is only through the grace which comes from prayer that other's hearts can be changed from see~ing death to l~ving life. Christ gives us the strength to press on i_n our battle for life. In order to be Christ-like in our service to preserve life, we must he filled with His 
life through prayer. To be Christian, we must follow Christ. If He is not the source of all we do, it is worth nothing. We ask you to join us 
in prayer for life ... 

What is/Eucharistic Adoration 1. 
God is present to us in many ways in our world, but He is especially present to us in the Eucharist. As Roman Catholics, we believe that Jesus Christ, who lived 2000 years. ago, is truly present in the Euch~ist. In Eucharistic Adorati,on,.the Host is placed in a monstrance, in order-for us to be aSle to come and pray. jesus is aiways hidde:i in the tabernacle, but in adoration he is exposed so that we can come and knedbefore Him, face to face, and speak with our God. When Jesus is exposed like this, He can never be leftalone. Thus, people sign up to be responsi­ble to some and pray with Him for a certain amount of tim.e (usually 1 hour) every week. 
Why should I go? 
If Jesus were to come to the JACC, would you-come and•stand in line for ours just to talk to Him for a minute? Even if-you weren't Christian, wouldn't you be at least interested in this God so niay· people talk about? Well, Jesus is truly, physi­cally present here on campus-in the Eucharist. IN ADORATION YOU HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO GO AND SPEAKWITH YOUR GOD FACE TO ­FACE. You confide in Him, plead with Him, question Him. And if you sit quietly enough, he will inspire you with ·answers .. 
What do I do when I am there? 
When you enter the chapel, you should genuflect as a sign of reverence to Jesus. It 
is common practice during Adoration to genuflect on two knees,cinstead ofjust one 
(Jike you do whenever you enter a chapel.) You can stand;sit, or kneel-whatever 
position you pray best in. And then you .pray. There are many ways to pray: you 
can do spiritual reading; yoti can.pray·!! rosary; you cari sit iri"silence; you can even just talk to )esus-li_ke you would to a 'friend. The most important thing is that you love Him and allow Him to love and strengthen you. 
What does the Church think? 
"Exposition ofthe Blessed Sacrament, whether in .a pyx or a monstrance, is a 
recognition of the wondrous Presence ofChrist fo the sacrament and stimulates us 
to unite ourselves to Him in a spiritual communion. It is, accordingJy, eminently in 
harmony with the worship which we owe Himlinspirit and truth ..." 
-Po.st-Conciliar (Vatican II) Document, S.C;D.W. 
Sponsored by Notre Dame Right to Life AMDG JMJ 

EUCHARISTIC· ADORATION ON CAMPUS: 
Friday: Lady Chapel in the Basilica: 12:00pm (following 11 :30 Mass) -5:00pm with a Rosary beginning at 4: 15. (Ends with Benediction ~t 4:45) Monday· beginning at H:30pm (following 11 :OOpm Mass) through Tuesday at 10:00pm (Ending with Benediction at 9:45.:.10:00) In Fisher Hall Chapel. 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 15, 2000 
NFL 
Detroit signs Stewart to fill void in backfield 
Associated Press 
PONTIAC. Mich. 

The Detroit Lions took dead aim on free-agent running back James Stewart. Monday. they got their man. 
Stewart. who led the Jacksonville Jaguars with 931 yards rushing and 13 touch­downs last season. signed for $25 million over five years. including a signing bonus of $5.75 million. 
The Lions. who got by with virtually no running game after the surprise retirement of Barrv Sanders on the eve of trainirig camp last season. outbid the Cleveland Browns for Stewart. 
"A lot of it came down to how I felt after my visit here last Fridav," Stewart said at a news conference in the Silverdome. "The staff, the coaches. everybody really made me feel welcome." 
Stewart said he also was influenced by the fact that Detroit seems closPr to win­ning a championship than the Browns do. 
"This is like a puzzle here," Stewart said. "I fit into this puzzle real well. I think in Cleveland I'd have to carry the load. Here, I'll just be a piece." 
The Lions made the playoffs with an 8-8 record last sea­son. The expansion Browns were 2-14 in their first sea­son. 
"The key was Detroit's abili­ty to win now." Stewart's agent. Pat Dye Jr.. said. "And they obviously wanted him. They didn't want to let him leave town Friday." 
The Lions rushed for just 

1.245 yards last season. They rank<'d 28th among the NFL's 31 teams. The year before, Sanders rushed for 1,491 yards himself -his lowest output in five years. 
Pats sign Harris 
The New England Patriots, hoping to improve their run­ning game, signed free agent 
Financial terms of the deal were not released. 
Harris. a five-year NFL vet­eran, did not play last season. He was Chicago's fourth­round draft pick in 1994. and played fullback and tailback during three injury-plagued seasons with the Bears. He signed with the Green Bay Packers as an unrestricted free agent in 1998, 
llarris has started 38 or 51 games and has rushed for 
2.473 yards and caught 110 passes for 719 yards. His best season was in 1997, when he rushed t'or 1.033 yards and 10 touchdowns on 275 carries while starting 13 games. 
Patriots coach Bill Belichick said he signed Harris with the intention to make him the lead back. 
"He's had that role before," Belichick said. "He's had a lit­tle bit of an injury problem, which is why he's in the situa­tion he is, but he's a tough guy and hopefully that injury bug won't bite him again.·· 
Harris missed the ·95 season with a brokfln collarbone sus­tained in the season opener against Minnesota. He also played in only 12 games in 1997 and just eight for the Packers in 1998. rushing for 228 yards on 79 carries and catching 10 passes for 68 vards. 
· "He's a tackle-to-tackle tough runner. always moving forward," Belichick said. "I think he'll bring a physical presence to our running game and I'm excited about having him on the team." 
Harris would seem to have am immediate edge over last year's second-round dral't choice, Kevin Faulk. who split the running duties with Allen. Faulk carried 67 times for 227 yards and one touchdown last year. and Belichick said Monday he envisions the for­mer LSU standout more in the David Meggett mold, as a situ­ation al runner and pass receiver. 

Raymont Harris to a two-year contract and released Terry Allen. last year's starting tail­back. on Monday. 

Internet banking Checking account Overdraft protection ATM /.Debit card 
Questions? Call us at'258-315-0, or e-mail us at BankOncampus@lst source.com. 

Steelers replace Roye a f'umbh1 recovery. games in six years with 
The Pittsburgh Steelers "Kimo has been a productive Cincinnati and started 36, wasted no time in replacing and versatile player through­including all 16 games in the defensive lineman Orpheus out his career, and we believe 1998 season. Roye, signing Cincinnati free he will be a solid contributor Von Oelhoffen could replace agent Kimo von Oelhoffon on for us," Ster,lers coach Bill Joel Steed. who is coming off Monday. Cowher said. knee surgery and is due to 
The 6-foot-4, 305-pound Von Oelhoffen signed a four­make $3 million in each of the nose tackle started live games year. $10 million contract. next two seasons. last season for the Bengals. He A sixth round draft pick in Roye signed a six-year con­had 24 tackles, four sacks and 1994, von Oelhof'fen played 80 tract with the Browns. 
. ttJ---
Samt Macy's Collegg 
NOTRE DAME • INDIANA 
The Nation's Prem/9r Catholic Wom.,n 's Coll•g• 
27th An.nu.al 
LO~I>O~ S-U-lvflVlE~ 
P~O~~ 
FINAL Informational Meeting 6:00-8:00 p.m., Wednesday, February 16 Welsh Parlor, Haggar College Center 
Courses offered in History, Art, Sociology. 
For further information contact: 
Professor David Stefancic 54 Madeleva Hall, Room 347 Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 284-4462 e-mail: dstefanc@saintmarys.edu Fax: London Summer Program (219) 284-4866 


Full service, on-line banking designed especially-for college students! 
Whether you're on a MAC or a PC, our easy-to­use interface makes banking on the Internet a snap. Visit us online at www.bankoncampus.com to find out how you can benefit from this innovative.account 
.-source. 


liiiiBank 
Member FDIC 

FENCING 
Irish fencers go undefeated in weekend meet 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
A,s<1.:i.i1e Sp<HI< hlirur 
ThP men's and wom1n1's fl'ncing warns •~ach closed out tlw ri•gular snason with a p('r­l'ec:t 4-0 nw1~t in Dotroit as rach team improvPd to 18-l on llw voar. 
Al'tn· stMLing l)ff tfw season with a ~-2 rPcnrd. tht• mrn n·rlrd off 1Ci slritight wins. Tlw strong finish bodes well for th(• post season, ,u·cording to foil captain Jim Il1Lrris. 
"WP had a hP.r.k of a regular s<'ason," hi' said. "Wf' finislrnd o!T strong ant! now wr1 h,ivn two wiwks to get rnady !'or the Midw<'st Championships." 
In Llw wins ovcir Michigan. Mi<'higan Stal1:. lh1troit and Wavnc· StalP last weekend. a tal,:nted group of underdass­rn en and a dominant sabre squad led the Irish. 
Freshman foilist Ozren Debic 
posted an 8-0 record. The 
undefeated weekend was the 
third strnighl perfoct showing 
l'or tlrn Croatian. !IP won 35 
slraighl bouts -including 
lhreP against dP!'P.nding 
national champion Penn State 
-after starting the season 7­
3. 1larris believes that if Debic had been healt,hv all season, his record rnigh\ have been even more impressive. 
"lie was hurt early in the season and he dropped a cou­ple of bouts he probably could have won in New York," llarris said. "Now that he is bark to full hnalth. hP rnuld challenge\ l'or thP national title." 
Debic's 4l wins lPd thr> Irish. and his .'J33 single' season winning pcrr.entagn is lhP fifth Freshman Forest Walton also posted a strong final weekend with seven wins. 

A pair of sophomores and a junior led the men's sabre squad as Gabor Szelle, Andre Crompton and Andrzej Bednarski combined for 26 wins. Sze!le led the sabre squad in wins for the second straight year with a 41-3 record. 
On the women's side, the sabre squad continued its strong inaugural season, win­ning .35 of 36 bouts. All three starters -Natalia Mazur, Carianne McCullough and Katie Flanagan -went unde­feated on the weekend. 
The sabre squad finished the vear with a 19-1 record ­falling only to Northwestern two weeks ago. 
A pair of seniors and a freshman led the foil squad as Aimee Kalogera won 10 bouts and Magda Krol went 6-0. Freshman Liza Boutsikaris posted her second straight 
undefeated weekend to improve her season record to 28-6, 
"Liza has shown so much leadership on our squad this year," foil captain Krol said. "Coming in as a freshman, it is tough to adjust to the NCAA format but she has shown so much poise. I am happy to have Liza on my squad." 
Freshmen epeeists Meagan Call and Anna Carnick com­bined for an 18-1 record as they continued their strong fencing heading into the post season. 
The Irish return to action March 4 in the Midwest Conference Championships. The men will look to continue their strong fencing while the women hope for some revenge against Northwestern. 
"Northwestern and some other teams like Cleveland State are not going to be easy," Krol said. "But we have to defend our title that we have had for so many years." 


best all-time among Irish f'oilists. 
"Oz is just so much run to watch." Harris said. "It is a trnal lo have him in the gym everyday. We haven't had sonrnone like him on the foil squad since [Irish career leader in foil wins] Jeremy Siek. He makes us better just by fencing him in practice." 
Debic wasn't the only fresh­man to finish the year strong­Jy. Freshman epeeist Jan Viviani won seven of his eight bouts to improve to 32-7. 

/Jel1v-e~11f Tk fL# ffzza.1 C3@ru\l ~[b@ @ . ©@fk 1J(J]@~(fltI1~99 12 Anytime Anytime you call between you call between 11~' 5:30 & 7:00, 10:30-12:59 9 9the price of your the price of yourI 2 large 1large 1 topping 6 topping pizzas pizza is the time you call.is the time you call. * Plus tax* Plus tax i---runchspeeiai---, 1 Small 1 Topping : ND store I 2 Cans of Coca-Cola product I Saint Mary's/ I $5.99271-1177 I North Village MallL-------------.J 271-PAPA  

Got Sports? Call us. 631­
4543 

----------~ 

Men 
continued from page 24 
hies matl'.hup 9-8 (7-5) The Jrbh finished off the tiebreaker with a solid putaway by Taborga, satisfying the home crowd. 
Irish coach Bob Rayliss was impressed with hb squad's abil­itv to mount a comeback in the dcrnblrs matches. but hr wish<'s that they would begin with the same intensitv. 
"It \\ as pr;, lty rewardi11 g to see us come back. but I was dis­appnin ted to be in that posi­tion." Bavliss said. "It speaks wnll for 11ur comeback, but we need to_ deVfdop a s~nse of ur"encv rn our matches.
0 • 

Ohio State. which fell to 4-1 with the clrfeat. shook up its singles lineup to throw off the rhvthm of a solid Irish attack: the strategy almost proved sur.­cessful. The 13uckevcs unexpect­ed Iv sent Carlsr111 to face the Irish's 14th-ranked All­American Sachire in the top sin­glf's matrh. ,vhilr• normal No. 1 player, <,2nd-ranked Porter, was matclwd against the lrish's Smith at No. 2 singles. 
"I think that was a lineup switch that helped," Bayliss said. "! wouldn't be surpris<'d to see Porter lot' Ohio State] at No. 1 for the rnst of thr vear." 
Sarhire quickly boostPd the Notre Danw lead to 2-0 with a 6-4, 6-4 victory over Ohio State's Carlson. The Buckeves then cut the deficit in half wlien Mrtz defeated the Irish 's Taborga. 6-4. 7-5, at No. 3 sin­gles, after trailing 1-5 in the serond set. 
Ohio State leveled out the score when Porter reeled off 12 straight games to defeat Notre Dame's Smith in the No. 2 sin­
20th Centu Dance Ret 
Friday and Saturday, February 18 & 19 at 8 pm Sunday, February 20 at 2:30 pm 
Saint Mary's College O'Laughlin Auditorium 
ATTENTION 
UNDERGRADUATE 
AND GRADUATE 
STUDENTS 
WORLDWIDE 
::uRSUE JOB ,AND lf\JTERf°',JSHIP OPPORTUNITIES 
THAT SPAN 
THE GLOBE 
(~ampus . Center.com 
~ The wor/dS largest campus Job fair 
gles match, 5-7. 6-0, 6-0. TIHl Irish's Talarico tlwn lwld on to dfll'nat the Bu('keyns' Vincent Ng u-1. 7-6 17-31 at l\o. 4 singles. giving him three consecutive singles wins and notching thr! Irish lead to 3-2 in the match. 
''I thought Aaron handled the pressure of his matr.h prntty well," Bayliss said. "I-IP has become a rral stopper for us." 
Andrew Lal1in then provided tlH' clinching win at No. 5 sin­gles for the Irish by defeating the Buckeyes' DcFalco in a tight throe-set match 6-4, 2-6. 6-4. At :~-3 in the third srt. Laflin broke his opponent's serve, and held servr twice to l1ick up thr victory. 
Not realizing the importance of his match. Laf'lin knpt his focus on his opponent and regrouped to take the third set. 
"I just wanted to keep focused," Laflin said. "I had no idea what the stakes were. I was a littlt> shaky at thr btgin­ning ofthe third set, but I took a deep bn,ath and I played a loL better in the 11:nd]." 
The Buf'keves dosed out the match with a win when Wcllstein ddeated the lrish's Brian Farrell in thf' l\;o. 6 sin· gles match G-3. 'I -6. 6-4. mak­ing the onicial score -1--:1 in Notre Dame's favor. 
Farrell again f'illPd in for the lrish's injured, 65th-ranked and No. 2 singles play<,r Matt Dalv. who continues to b11. held back by a shoulder injury. 
By managing to come awav from Saturday's matc:hup against the Buckeyes unscathed, Notre Dame extended a winning streak agains·t Ohio State. With the win the Irish have now defeated the Buckeyes in 12 straight meetings. 
· 


Javier Taborga stretches for a backhand in a match earlier this season. Taborga and partner Aaron Talarico helped secure the doubles point in Notre Dame's victory over Ohio State. 
TRY OUR NEW ITALIAN CHICK'N CRISP FOR ONLY 99¢. 
(LET'S JUST SAY THE EXCHANGE RATE IS IN YOUR FAVOR.) 
...;::?:??\:/.\\>'f· i~--=~.. .·. ,• .... ·.=\. :·;~tr~~~::: ~ 
·····0.("l .. . .... .• , ....(; .·.t"\... 
,.-:,.: ._. .._...,,_= .. .. ~= .-.. :··.=::-or":'~:=:/..:-. :·.-'}t:.-:­
·~.:_-.·_·.-_-..:;:-:i::~4r:·...·./?=f:9:t,{?:\ 
.:_ ·.'<: p.: ·· ·_._ ·: :__·.·:: :. ·._:\.-_\;;.//·~:. 
'•·
::·. 
:".::_­
r'•
::· 

......... '. 
THE NEW ITALIAN CHICK'N CRISP AT BURGER KING; 
You don't have to travel far to enjoy a little taste of Italy. Introducing the delicious
99¢ 

Italian Chick'n Crisp sandwich at BURGER KINGa restaurants. Tender, juicy, all-white-meat chicken topped with mozzarella cheese and zesty marinara sauce. Right now just 99¢. 


The Huddle -Lafortune Student Center Price and participation may vary. 
Tuesday, February I5, 2000 
Ryan 
continued from page 24 
Wrighl -all r'.andidales l'or Lhe highest award in college bus­kt>tbalL the Wooden Award. 
But llumphrey d('S('rves tho ar.r.laim 
He's got skills 
An easy-going but 1-11rnrgetic playPr. 11 umphrey nr~tt.Pd 11.1 points pnr game and 7. 5 rPbounds as a sopbornorn for tlrn Sooners. In Oklahoma's first-round NCAA Lournanwnt game against Arizona last year. his tip-in baskPt during the closing seconds delivered LIH~ win to Oklahoma. allowing his tnam to adva111:p to thn Swont 16. 
llumpllrt)y stornwcl to nation­al recognition in high school. Considenid tlrn bPst pn;p powPr l'orwarcl by several recruiting publications. he 11a.rned All-Anrnri<:an honors from Nike'. Catoradn. McDonald's and Parad11. llis 11th!Pticisrn PX.tended beyond basketball. winning him l'aradn /\11-Anwrican honors as n foothall tight end. 
TIH' skills llumphrey d(•vrl­op1'd in high sd100! and at Oklahoma makl' him an Pxrit­ing ilddition to Nolr1' Ila.me baskrtball. 
"ThPy ar!' oxpcH:ting him to lwlp the program out." Hyan 's twin sistPr Hobvn said. "I think Lhey'rp just as irnxious as lw is PVPn to play." 
Putting llumphrey on a ros­tPr that lost•s onlv on<' senior with significant p!;tying time to graduation -point guard Jimmy Dillon -should sky rocket NotrP Dame to t!w lop of' any pollstn's picks lo win a Big East t:hampionship. 
,.It will takP an immPnS<'­amount ol' pn\ssun' off of' nw if tlwv can't dou blr-team us," Mui·phy said. "If hP can go down and dunk over two or three guys." 
Taking the heat 
llumphroy traveled a rocky road l.o Notre Dame, enduring more critir.ism or hostility for choosing the University than any or his teammates did. 
llurnphrey. a power fonvard, d1;cided it was time for a change aftor playing !'or Oklahoma for two yPars. AftP,r considering snvcral wllegcs, he settkd on Notre Dame. in part because of a connection with Doherty. \'\'hile Humphrey was in high school, Doherty retruit­cd Humphrny to play at Kansas. VV!rnn II umphrey select"d Oklahoma. he playPd against. llohcrly's team !'or two years in thn Big 12. 
llumphrny knew Oklahoma fans probably wouldn't be lhrilind at the derision. But the Tulsa. Okla., native was stunned at thn depth of llrn ani­mositv that filtered his wav. 
"½'l;en I decided that I {vant­cd to leave, I received a lot of heat." llumphrey said. "l received a lot of hate mail, death threats. I received the full third degree wh<'n I decid­ed to lransfor.'' 
One or the things that hurt tlrn most was having former supporters turn on him in angN. 
"It was somewhat frustrating bnt:ause those people that were standing them and saying things about him were the ones who were just applauding him in a game," Hobyn said. "Being from Oklahoma, you would think they would want what was b11st Cor him." 
Ryan llumphrey took the emotional beating as a lesson. 
"I learned who mv reallv true frinnds am." llum-phrey· said. "You have a lot of friends when things an• going we!!." 
01111 friend llumphrPy is grateful for is his sister, who transferred with him to Notre Dame. 
page 21 


Ryan Humphrey anxiously awaits the day when his name will be announced in the start­ing lineup for the Irish. 
"I think we have all the potential to be a top-10 team," Humphrey said. "The whole coaching staff has done an excellent job of instilling in us that we have the tools. We con­trol our own destiny." 


, 

JOIN US IN PRESENTING EVE ENSLER'S 
V.tCIN.t AeNe1ec1111 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 16TH @ 7PM IN CARROLL AUDITORIUM­MADELEVA HALL-SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
$2 AT THE DOOR/ $5 IN ADVANCE (ALL PROCEEDS GO TO SEXUAL OFFENSE SERVICES) 
CALL X44 I 5/X5234/X4533 TO RESERVE TICKETS 
The Observer . SPORTS 

"She is my best friend," Humphrey said. "If there is anyon<' who knows about Byan Humphrey, it's her. because she b my best friend and I've been blessed to have her." 
With all the anger directed at her twin. Robyn found it in her best interests to come to Notre Dame with her brother. 
As high school seniors, the 
pair decided to attend the same college. Robyn was also recruited to play college bas­ketball. but not by Oklahoma. She hung up her basketball 
shoes  when  Hyan  chose  
Oklahoma.  
"We made a  pact that  we  

would go together." Robyn said, "and Oklahoma wasn't really recruiting me." 
JPWJPWJPWJPWJPWJPWJPWJPWJPWJPWJP 
juniors! 

So close to JPW .... 
Don't forget to pick up your tickets! 
FEBRUARY 15th and 16th 
Corby Room 
.t~$iwlent e~ 
7.·00-1O:OOpni 

The collection for the JPW mass will be taken at pick-up. A $2 
donation is suggested. The collection will go to the local charity 
There Are Children Here 
JPWJPWJPWJPWJPWJPWJPWJPWJPWJPWJP 

CLUB SPORTS 
Ski club captures four of top five spots at Divisionals 
Special to The Observer 
In it's most dominating perfor­mance to date. the ,vomen of the ski dub captured first, second. fourth and fifth at the MCS:\ Divisional Championshipt. at Crystal Mountain. 
Mollv Munsterer. Nikki Douille·t. Jen Caswell and Ellen Blook all had outstanding runs. while teammate Kate Hyan placed a very rrspectablr 15th. 
On tlw men's side. frnshman Mike Hvan turtwcl in the club's best performance of the season. finishing third in the slalom. 
This weekend. the dub will compete in tlw MCSA Hegionals at '.vlarquette. Mich. ThP stronges_t eompet.ition w!II come from Mmnesota s varsity pro­grams of St. Olal"s, St. Thomas and St. Cloud. The Irish will be shorthanded becausl' of Junior Parents' Weekend. but still plan on moving on to Nationals. 
Equestrian 
Returning to second semester action. the equestrian club fell by a single point to Purdue in the 
St.  Mary's  of  the  'Woods  
Invitational.  
In  a  field  of eight ti;ams,  

PurduP and Notre Dame ranked among the top 20 in the country. The club captured Heserve High Point honors. while Suzy WPbPr captured the individual Hcserve High Point. 
Kristen Jones' second place in Open Fences, Meganne Hoffman's second place in Intermediate Fences. .lackile Nesson's first in Novice Flat, Suzv Weber's first in Novice Fences and Sheridan Griffin's third in Open Flat highlighted the event for the Irish. 
Women's water polo 
Miami (Ohio) was the venue for women's club water polo. as the Irish gainrd a hard fought split against a formidable field. 
A furious rush at the end fell short as Notre Dame was clipped bv Illinois, 5-4. The club n;boundl'd to trounce Maryland 9-2. before stumbling against a verv strong Salem squad. 10-1. 
6Jmpleting the tournament. thn team captured seventh place with a 9-:~ victory over Emory. Lisa Thomas had an outstanding tournament in goal with many lunging savrs. 
Judo 
John MrKiernan of Notre Danw's judo '.:lub took first place ~t thP_ Indrnna_ Judo St~te cirnn:1~10nsh1ps 111 the_ n_(~~1ce 
·-I 98:2-0-~ou_nd . d1~1s10,n. McK1ernan s ~1ctory ts a hrst for the club at this level. 
Ultimate Frisbee 
The men and women of the Ultimate club competed in freez­ing rain at the Arctir Vogue in C:incinatti. 
The men completed the week­end 4-2 with a win against perenniiil power Ohio, 13-4. Wade Heltner's strong defensive play, inducting three layouts, was the difference. Joe Miller had five scores and no turnovers in a good win over Tulane. · · 
Sparked by the tenacious defense of' Carolyn Grimes and long cuts from Lara Pozorski, the Irish women recovered from a 4­0 deficit to whip regional rival Illinois, 11-9, in the final game of the weekend. Another highlight for the club was a win over a Cincinatti club team, the Sisters of Cinn, which had defeated the Irish the past two years. 
Men's volleyball 
The men ·s volleyball club dropped a well-played match to 
Own the sky. 
To fly is one thing. To fly with the Marine Corps is some­thing else. They'll show you the meaning ofwings. From the wings of the F-18 Hornet to the wings you wear as Marine aviator, tltls is flying at its best. And your ticket to fly is your college diploma If you'd like to be up there, cont.a.ct your local Marine Officer Selection Officer. 

SEE YOUR MARINE CORPS OFFICER SELECTION TEAM 
The USMC Officer Selection Officer will be on campus this Thursday, the 17th with a Marine Aviator at the S.B. Airport. Call now to reserve your seat for a free plane ride over Notre Dame. 
15t Lt. Simek 
(877) 299-9397 or (765) 743-8359 
' MARI N E OFFICER PRO G RAMS 
www.rnarines.com 

West<'rn Michigan last week. game, succumbing 25-18, 25-23, tion with so many missing team-
Although missing more than 25-23, in rally scoring. mates. The club returns to divi­half' the team including three key Mike Griggs had an outstand-sional championship play this starters, the club was in each ing match, playing out of posi-weekend. 
,.,,~,.,.,,-,;,,.;w!J:x,Ji',,'J':i,i;;»J::r¾.Z:ZZ%%%~%%.%ZJ:'!.,."f~.%%%%.,."if%.%%§f:Z'%:Z'%%%%:Z%$i!ffi.ZZZZ.ZZ,."if.Z%%%».,."'!%ZZ:Z,."'f%%%ZZZ:Z~
H 444~~~·~4~·~~ Ii Ii.~ •. '"; The American Cancer Society I 
~ I'""'::.P•CY g
I ' presents our Annual I I~~~~ Daffodil Days I 
! For only six dollars, you can purchase one bunch of ten daffodils, and for iIjust three dollars more, you can purchase aslender glass vase that is just IIperfecl for your bouquet! ! I ~ 
~ The flowers will be delivered to the dorms on Thursday, March 23"'. ! 
,,; ~
!~ All proceeds from our Daffodil Days goes to the American Cancer Society I ~ i for use in cancer research, education, programs, and patient services here in jISt. Joseph County. I I Bring the sign of Spring and the flower of hope to your dorm room. You IIcan use the order fonn below lo place an order with Jessica Brookshire in I I204 RoHs Sports Center or call 1-5829 for more information. I 
Ir--------_ _Drd~~d~e_!}!_~~!YJ!_h~~Y_2~!:_ _ --7:1n_z:r.-;-.-:-4~, ! 
I:Iwant to order _ bunches of Daffodils with _ vases. :v.~"" · 1 : j
I:Name:______ : I! : Address: ___ Hall, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 _ : i II My contribution of $ to fight cancer is enclosed. DAFF091 ~ 1 I 
)8!1 -D·~\·'t·~lj;§
IL-----------------------------~-~---J I 
~~~~"&~~~"a"&"&"&~~~"&"?82&~~~~"&~"&"&'R"&~~"&~~"&"&"&"&"&~"&~~~J 
Strive to be  
a  
Role  ...not  
Model  a super  

model 

How you look , is not who you are! 
?ltued, Zo4,, Sµut. I ,,4 ~°' Su.uup 'Bo4,. &~ t)t4fPUU!t, r1~7a,i,,t, 'l~15-17, 2000 lla,m-4fu1t,, Z)~ i<O(UH, at -t.a.'1~ 
For more information, contact: University Health Services 631-8286 / University Counseling Center 631-7336 

• 




EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 26 Connecticut 58 Acknowledge 1 A crow's-nest 
town near New frankly 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS to overindulge in food or drink. tops it London 59 Cropped up DAY: Chris Farley, John Barrymore, 0000 Susan B. Anthony, Jane Seymour, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You
29 nn foil, e.g. 60 Barley beards 

5 Person with a Oaire Bloom, Marisa Berenson, Gra­may jump to conclusions about mat­
33 Auto 61 Poor, as

puffy white hat ham Hill, James R. Schlesinger, ters concerning your mate or other
manufacturer's excuses go

9 Stew server Susan Brownmiller, Melissa Man­family members. You must be cau­
woe 62 Turn red, chester 
tious, as minor accidents in your

14 Toe stubber's 
36 Recently stolen perhaps Happy Birthday: You can main­home are likely. 00 
cry 
37 "At_, soldier!" 63 Give stars to tain a reasonably balanced lifestyle if LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You 15 Partner of now 38 Bikini, e.g. 64 Marcel you learn to adapt to changes around will be able to acquire additional you. Believe in your own abilities, knowledge through travel or cours­
16 In progress 39 Longing Marceau, e.g. 
and it will be much easier to get es. Your quick wit will win you·
17 Grimm beast 40 Instrument with 65 Bottomless pit 
things accomplished. If you sit wait­points and enhance your reputation. .8 Turner who was fingerholes 66 Took a gander ing for others to make a move, you 00000 
called ''The 41 Some J.P. at may wait a long time. Your numbers: SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your Sweater Girl" Morgan hldgs. 67 Inuit's transport 6, 17, 22, 25, 31, 40 high energy will aid you in putting 42 Beaver's work ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your forth that little extra that will bring 
19 _ Domingo 
43 Ironing high energy and drive should enable you the advancement and notoriety
DOWN

(Caribbean 
you to initiate plans to beautify your you desire. You can present your
challenge 1 Archie's

capital) home. Consider preparing for a ideas and ask for favors. 000
44 Mother of Apollo dimwitted pal 

20 Salty septet social event that will promote new SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec.45 Hurled word 2 Boring tool loves.0000 21): You may be more emotional and 
21 Demand too 
47 Caviar 3 Scrawny one TAURUS (April 20-May 20): not as intellectual as you'd like. Your 
much of 
49 New Deal inits. Your emotional attitude will fluctu­mate may set you off if he or she
4 George W. Bush23 Hence 50 Hops kiln story? ate due to trivial matters. Do not tries to put restrictions on your time. overreact to situations concerning 000
24_publica 
54 Football squad 5 _ hydrate 

money. Try to put your energy into CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):
25 Opposite WNW warm-ups (knockout 
progressive projects. 000 Don't let your emotions get in thedrops) GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Emo­way of doing a good job at work. 6 Angels' place tional blow-ups regarding your mate You will be overly sensitive to per­
7 1 954 Literature are evident. Try to be patient with sonal criticism and must try hard not Nobelist Puzzle by Joy L Wouk those you love. Your best efforts will to retaliate unnecessarily. 000 come from work done with your AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
8 North Carolina's 

30 Actor Julia 46 Thirty, in 53 Coarse wool 
hands.000 New romantic relationships will
Cape_ 

31 'The Thin Man" Montreal fabric CANCER (June 21-July 22): You form through fitness clubs or social
9 Wears well 

pooch 48 Broken mirrors 54 Lee will be upset emotionally at work events you attend. Your emotions 10 No more 32 Social equal and others Corporation today if you have been intimately interfere with your view of reality. 
begging? involved with a colleague. Do not 00000
33 Scold harshly, 55 Baby's bed
51 Be of use to

11 Lady of Lisbon participate in idle chatter or under­PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You
with "at" 

56 Cordlike handed issues. 000 
Fisherman" 34 Basic French feeder 57 Bern's river LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Pleasure pleas. Anger will mount quickly, and verb trips should be on your agenda. You it is best to keep your opinions to 
12 "An Iceland 52 English Channel will not want to listen to emotional 
author Pierre 

35 Chesterfield or should get together with friends yourself. Channel your energy into
13 School on the 

ulster and/ or relatives, but be careful not home-improvement projects. 00
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
Thames 39 Jabber are available by touch-tone phone:

22 Faction Birthday Baby: You are an ideas person; however; you need someone to 27 Under the 40 Hostile force 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). help you decide whether or not your plans are possible before you dive in weather 42 Regard as Annual subscriptions are available for the headfirst. You are outgoing and creative in all that you pursue. You are a 
going concern from day one. 
28 Charged 43 Performed a best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com,
particle ballet step years: 1-B88-7-ACROSS. 

eugenialaslcom, astromate.com.) 
.. 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
([:}-[J1m( 'YOV 

J?elaxalion :Jra1"niny 
Atria Salon ,, . Basney Honda 
Jr/days, 3:15 ~ 4:15, Y<c5Y?G
Doti' Pablos 

~_mporium:,jE,;•",,,,., 
.,.. =·'-ND Varsi ·'S~p 
~ 

Pormakf,ng the 5th annua['Va[entineiY 
6. . . Y<e!Jislralion be!Jins Yeh. 1a, oam in /he
aAA. )Iero zcs a success! 
f;•'

• 1111' For More Info. Contact:RecSports -1-6100 J?c5Y?G 
www.nd.edu/~recsport 

FOURTH AND INCHES 
Fox TROT 
YOU'RE (;OINC, TO 8ED NOW? 
I CAN'T 
PETER WAS TELLIN(; ME ABOUT THIS &RE&oR SAMSA 6UY WHO WAICES 
I f1c;,vRE THE SOONER I &o To SLEEP, THE SOONER SOMETHING LIICE 

TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 

beam.1 @nd edu 


Undefeated 
• 
Both the men's and women's 
fencing teams enjoyed pe,fect weekends, posting a 
4-0 record in Detroit. 
page 19
PORTS 

THE page 24 OBSERVER Tuesday, February 15, 2000 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Humphrey awaits chance to shine 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Assisunr Sporn Ed,ror 
Oouble and triple l<rnms are nothing new lo Troy Murphy. The sophomore All-American candidate draws a r,rowd everv time he ratrhes the ball in the post: leaving him beaten and bruised by opposing squads. 
It's only natural to wonder how good this vear's Notre Uarne basketball team rould be with a sPcond standoul post play1'r. Whal il' they hutl someone lo complr.rncnt Murphy down low -an explosive powrr player rapable of scor­ing and rebounding? 
It's not a pipe dream for Notre Dame. Junior lransl'er Hyan Humphrey is exactly what the doctor ordered. 
"We wish we had him this vear." junior reserve point guard Martin lngelsby said. 
Humphrey. at G-foot-8 and 225 pounds. ·was a third-team all-Big 12 selection at Oklahoma last season. but made the switch to l\iotre Dame this year. He can· l don a Notre Dame uni­form during the 1999-2000 season; he can only practice with the team. 
"It's been hard berause I wish I was out there playing." Humphrey said. "But what I can do is help make the team better by going out there and practicing. I feel like I'm making them better." 
NCAA guidelines force Humphrey to watch Notre Dame -win or lose -Notre Dame junior Ryan Humphrey celebrates an Irish basket during Saturday's 68-66 victory over Connecticut. from the sidelines. Humphrey, a transfer from Oklahoma, has to sit out this season in accordance with NCAA guidelines. 
"It's hard for Rvan," Notre Dame 
But I feel like Cod is ordering my steps Doherty said. great competitor. I don't think I've
head coach Matt boherty said. "!-le 
hem, and it will all pay off next year. Suiting up with the gold team (the played against a better player thiscan't go out there and do what he loves 
This year, my goal is just to come prac­reserve squad) for Notre Dame in prac­year."
to do, which is play basketball." 
tkc hard and help the team get to the tice, Humphrey's role is to study oppos­High praise f'rom a guy who's gone up
In victory. Humphrny celebrates along NCAA Tournament." ing teams' scout reports so he can play against the likes of Connecticut's Khalidwith his Irish teammates. Likewise, he Although Humphrey's name won't the part of a top players, challenging El-Amin. Indiana's A.J. Guyton,suffers with them in defeat. But always appear on any stat sheets this season. Irish athletes to contain him and with­Maryland's Terence Morris, Syracuse'sfrom the bench. 
his contribution is there. stand his defense. Etan Thomas and Arizona's Michael"J sit on the bench often. and I kind of 
"He brings an energy and intensity to "He's contributed a lot this year,"
wonder why is this happening to me?" 
the team every day in practice," Murphy said. "He's intense. He's a
Humphrey said. "Why am I not playing? see RYAN/page 21 

WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish defeat Terrapins, Illini 
By KEVIN BERCHOU Sporrs W'ri1er 
Tht~ Notn· Dame women's tennis team found out last weekend exactly where it stands among NCAA frontrun­ners 
right along side them. 
N o t r e 0 a m e played brilliantly in dual­m e e t action. 


trouncing Dasso 
Maryland and Illinois. Defeating these highly competitive teams brimming with tennis talent demonstrated the Irish as a formidable force. 
"We played very well this past weekend." Irish head rnarh Jav Louderback said. "To ;vin b~ith matches the way we did really helps our conti­dence." 
In a rare Friday afternoon match, the Irish blistered Maryland ·s Terrapins, 9-0. dropping just a singlP set along the way. 
.Junior Michelle Dasso, the squad's top player. led the charge with a No. 1 singles victnry over Maryland ·s Delila Causevic. whu is arguably the country's top freshmen. Dasso's breathtakingly close matrh was decided in thrilling fashion when she rallied from a 5-2 second-set deficit to pull 

out a 7-5. 7-6 (7-11 !wart stopper. 
"Mir,helle played extremely well," Louderback said. "Even when she got down, she came through with a grnat victory over a great opponent." 
Junior Kimberly Guy, senior Kelly Zalinski and sophomore Lindsey Green r"ach scored straight-set victories. Grnim ·s 6-:1. 6-4 win ovnr Maryland's Chrissie Terrill ran hr~r record to a perfect 5-0 in spring dual-match play. 
Sophomore Becky Varnum rallied to take her match against the Terrapins' Jessica Johnson, 1-6. 7-5, 6-3. kncp­ing the shutout intact. 
Even with the match already 
see WOMEN/page 16 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Notre Dame squeks past Ohio State, 4-3 
By RACHEL BIBER 
Sports Wrirer 
Visiting No. 54 Ohio State brought its best tennis to town on Saturday with a match-up against No. 38 Notre Dame. but the Irish squeaked by the Buckeyes with a 4-3 victory, improving their dual-match record to 4-2. 
Notre Dame capturnd the doubles point with two close wins in the No. 1 and No, 2 doubles matches. Ohio State's Derek DeFalco and Bob Wellstein quickly showed strongth in the doubles field, leading off with an 8-4 win over Notre Dame's Casey Smith and James Malhame. 
The Irish swooped back with a stunning rally from Ryan Sachire and Trent Mil!Pr at No. 2 doubles. who over­came a 3-6 deficit to defeat Ohio State's Phillip Metz and B.J. Munroe, 9-7. 
Notre Dame's 48th-ranked duo of Javier Taborga and Aaron Talarico then clinched the doubles point for the Irish with an impressive win over the Buckeyes' 36th-ranked team of Andrew Carlson and Chris Porter in the No. 1 dou­
see MEN/page 20 

s 
at Anderson Univer,ity A~· at Bowling Green Tuesday, 7 p.m. t,~ Friday, 7:35 p.m. ac Secon Hall
M 
Saturday, 9 p.m. 

SPORTS • 'fo' Track and Field
ac VillanovaATA Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. Big East Championships at Syracuse F riday-Sarurday 
GLANCE 


