
Spring break stories 
What's your goal? 
Scene examines the horrific, the bizarre. the 
Friday
Columnist Matt Loughran talks about life, goals
funny and the strange in a compendium of 
and following your dreams.
spring break stories. 
MARCH 31,
Viewpoint . page 16 
Scene . pages 18-19 
2000 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 113 
A DREAM DEFERRED ¦¦¦ 

JOHN DAILY/The ObseNer 
Sophomore David Graves can't watch as the Irish lose 71-61 in a heartbreaker to the Deamon 
Deacons of Wake Forest in Thursday's National Invitation Tournament championship game at Madison Square Garden. See the back page for complete coverage. 
. 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Eldred, SMC break ground on Dalloway's 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI Saint Mary's News Editor 
Saint l\Iary's took the first step toward the completion of its Master Plan with a groundbreaking ceremony for t h e 

College's n e w Welcome Center and Dallo­w a y s Coffee­h o u s e Thursday. 

Faculty, Eldred staff and students from Saint Mary's attended the ceremony, as did members of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, Saint Mary's Parents Council and the Notre Dame and South Bend com­munities. 
College president Marilou Eldred led the proceedings, and the donors praised her and her efforts in developing the Master Plan. 
"This facility would not be a reality today if it were not for Dr. Eldred and her staff,.,Jim Martell said. Martell and his wife, Bonnie, represented the Parents Council of Saint Mary's at the ceremony. Their group was responsible in large part for the fundrais­ing efforts for the new Dalloway's. 
"We trulv are honored to be able to pa;ticipate in this pro­gram," Martell said. 
The Parents Council is now working to fund the projects that comprise the remainder of'the Master Plan, a 10-year project for major construction and renovations. 
Student leaders also spoke at the ceremony. 
"Today's groundbreaking not only signifies the birth of our new Clubhouse, but also marks the initiation of con­struction on the infamous Master Plan," said Nancy Midden, Saint Mary's student body president. "What a momentous occasion. To wit­ness the first steps along the path that will most certainly lead to a brighter future for the students, faculty, staff and alumnae of Saint Mary's College is indeed significant. On behalf of the student body, a thousand thank yous to the community members who have worked tirelessly and dedicated so much of their energy to ensuring that stu­dent needs are met through the Master Plan projects." 
The Welcome Center was made possible by a donation from Colleen and James Ryan, who are involved with the Parents Council. Mrs. Ryan is also a member of the Board of Trustees at the College. 
The Ryans were unable to attend the ceremony, but were represented by their daughter Kate, a senior. 
see GROUND/page 6 


U.S. News drops ND law to 26, MBA breaks top 50 
By BRIGID SWEENEY 
News Writer 
U.S. News and World Report released its annual graduate school rankings Thursday Notre Dame's law school. ranked 21st last year, dropped to 26th. while the previously unranked business school moved up to 48th. 
In response to the law school's drop, director of pub­lic relations Dennis Moore said that the school is "very skepti­cal about the veracity of the rankings. There's no doubt we believe our law school is among the 25 best." 
Moore likened the ranking process to a Rube Goldberg machine, in which "a candle is lit, which causes an egg to drop, which leads -to some magical result." 
"The premise that a school's quality can be expressed as a statistic is questionable," he said. "The process is very arbi­trary." 
Specifically, Moore noted, the score for reputation among academics. which accounts for 40 percent of a school's overall score, is essentially a "beauty contest" decided by people who often know little about the pro­gram. 
The law school received 3.3 out of a possible 5 in this cate­gory, while it earned a 3.6 in reputation among judges and lawyers. 
. "H's interesting to note that we score higher with people who actually hire our gradu­ates," Moore said. 
While he emphasized that school officials continue to question the rankings and their methodology, Moore also noted that ranking results are report­ed openly and accurately. 
"The boltom line is that we don't think p,wple should put a lot of credence in the rankings, but we can't dismiss or ignore them because some people do pay attention," he said. 
Law School dean Patricia O'Hara could not be reached for comment. 
Regarding the business school, dean Carolyn Woo also downplayed the importance of the rankings. 
"Overall. we use rankings as feedback as to where we need to improve and where we are on track," she said. "We do not see them as a definitive assess­ment of our school." 
With respect to the individual categories, Woo was optimistic. 
"Our placement number was low, but it refers to May 1999. and we had no placement director from February to April of last year," she said. "Since then, we've hired a new direc­tor and three new staff mem­bers. and are very excited about the future." 
Top


Business Law 
1. Harvard University 1. Yale University 
1. Stanford University 2. Stanford Universit 
3. Univ. of Pennsylvania 4.MIT 
5. Northwestern Univ. 
48. Univ. ofNotre Dame 


Medical 
1. 
Harvard University 

2. 
Johns Hopkins Univ. 

3. 
Univ. of Pennsylvania 

4. 
Washington U. of St. Louis 

5. 
Columbia University 




page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, March 31, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 


New career paths 
With Pvery passing day, more and morP internship rejection letters fill my mailbox. They all say nearly the same thing: 
"Dear Mr. Connolly, 

We have revii>wed your application and although you are a highly qualified candidate, we will be unable to offer you an internship this summer. DuP to thf' 
high number of applicants. we have turned away many highly qualified can­didates. Yada Yada Yada 
Sincerf'ly. 
Some company that you won't. be working for this sum1ner" 
Every letter that arrives 


convinces me more and more that I will not be Mike Connolly working in a newsroom this summer. Whi!P anoth­er summPr in beautiful Sparta. J',j,J. isn't the worst Editor in Chief 
thing that rnuld happ<'n to 
me. it does rank in the top 

five for least desirable' ways to spend a summer. Although my last job al Sears Hardware selling lawn mowPrs 
was a blast. I think I will look for a little change in scenery this summer. 
I have started looking around me and dis­r:ovPred many careers that might interest me. but I have no idea ho"v to get involved. I am not really sure what experience and job skills are needed for me to find the following jobs. l havP made it my goal. however. to find a job in one of the following careers this summer: 
pro wrestling reforee 

How do I apply for this job? Where do I apply !"or this job? What skills are required Lo be a pro wrestling referee? I have done extensive researr.h {i.e .. watched naw a fow times) and ! have determined that I possess the skills required for this occupation. 
I am able to 'be hit in the head by chairs. l1ying sweaty men and silicon-injected women. After these blows to mv head, I feel that r can lie on a mat "uncons~ious" for the most important part of the match. only to awaken when someone gets pinned. 
I can also turn my back and pay attention to unimportant sideshows while wrestlers use wrenches and other illegal objects to hit each other. 
baseball bench coach 

He's not the manager. He's not the first base coach. He's not in charge of hitting or pitr.hing. He's in charge of the benr.h. What does this guy do exactly? Does he show the second stringers the proper way to adjust themselves? Does he teach the secrets of spit­ting sunflower seeds? How much coaching does thP bench need? 
This is a career that I know I could thrive in. I just need to know how to get this job. Would I have to be a minor league bench coach before working my way up to the majors? Can I go to a bench coaches summer camp? Is there a hall of fame for bench coar.hes? 
I tried going to the r.areer center but they just laughed at me when I asked for any pro wrestling companies would be at the career fair. When I asked about coaching baseball, they told me that maybe I should to Paul Mainieri in the baseball office. So I guess these careers are harder to break into than I thought. Maybe I should just fill out more journalism applications. 
The /!ieu•,,· expressed in the Inside Column are those of lhe aulhor and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Laura Pcrdk Amanda Greco Marihel Morey Graphics Nicole Haddad 
Joe Mueller Sports 
Production 
Noah Amsradcer 

Kerry Smirh Viewpoint 

Lab Tech 

Mary Margaret Nussbaum Angda Campos 
The Ol,semr (l'.SP~ 5~9 2-4000) i, published Mnud.iy 1hru11!\h Fnd.,y excepr during exam ;1nd v,ic.1.tion periods. The Observer is ;1 member of rlu: Assnliarr<.l Pr~s. All reprodncrion ri~;lns ,ne rc:strved 


THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Stanford-Dillon game turns bitter 
March 26, 1976 

Hanging a postr,r in front of Dillon. •·puck you Stanford," Dillon residents displayed their response to a Stanford studnnt's letter in the Observer. That letter. writton by Stanford interhall hor.kPy team members, accused Dillon ol' bad conduct at a match between the two halls. "Dillon is loud and obnoxious ... and we wouldn't live anywhere elsr,," Dillon residents said in a letter. 
Priest resigns in protest of gay discrimination March 25, 1998 
Father David Garrick. a Notre Dume communications and theatre profnssor, spokr, to a supportive crowd after hn resigned. Ile said that he would be leaving the Univflrsity bec:ause, as a celibate homosexual, he felt he was the object of' discrimination by the administration. "Nobody has secure rights until everyone has equal rights," Garrick said. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
U. Texas students support interracial dating 
AUSTIN, Texas 

Phuong Lir.n, a speech pathology junior. n\members conducting a survPy among her high school classmatr.s on interracial dating. She said almost 80 percent said tlrnv didn't bnli(wr. in it. 
'"!'hen I askl•d my l'rknds. 'What about Lance and I?"" Lien said about her high school boyfriend. "Becausr. I'm Asian and hP's white. they didn'l consider Im and ! an intf>.rracial couplr.. ll was seen as mostly a black and whit!' thing." 
Dr.spite somr. stereotypes, Lien and Lance Sander. who is still her boyfrir.nd, am likP many intfl1-racial couples al the univPrsity who occa­sionally experience racial and cul­tural tensions. 
Nationally. interradal marriage is still seldom sct:n. According lo 
"Dating between races wasn't 
seen much then at UT; there ·s 
a lot more ofit nou_,," 
Bob Fernea professor of Middle Eastern studies 

thl1 U.S. Census Bureau in 1<}94. there were nearly 1.3 mill ion mar­ried interracial couplns. Although this number seems small. it is four times what the numbr.r was in 1970. 
No specific studies have been performed at the university, but a 1997 USA Today/Gallup poll report­ed that 57 percent or a group of 602 teenagers had go1rn out with sonrno1w ol' another race. This was a 40 percent incrnasc from 1980. 
"Our university was always morn liberal than many others and fought against prejudice UT stu­dents stood against it." said Bob Fornea. professor of' Middle Eastflrn studies. who said lw has sefln interracial dating become more common at the Universitv since the l9Ci0s. · 
"Dating between races wasn't sp,cn much tlwn at UT: thcrn's a lot more of it now." 
According to u study by The Detroit News in 1997. the increase in interrac-ial dating can be attrib­utcd to an increase in minoritv enrollment in public school~ nationally. 1 n 1999. 7.040 f'reshmfln were admitted to the University. 
or thPSC studAnts. 286 werfl African Amcrir,an, a 43.7 percent inl'rnase from the year before. 
East Carolina rape suspect arrested 
GBEENVILLE, N.C. 

Wednesday, the suspect from last month's attempted rape was arrested by East Carolina University. The sus­pect. non-student Terrance Wooden, was charged with attempted second-dflgrne rape. The arrest stflmmed from a Feb. 11 rape case, which occurred in a student's fourth~lloor room of Clement hall. The victim was taken to Pitt County Memorial Hospital (PCMH) where a rape kit was administered and the evidence was then sent to FBI agencies in Haleigh. According to Captain Frank Knight of the ECUPD, charges where based upon evi­dence found by FBI agents. Knight said the evidence concluded that a sexual assault did take plac:e. Exact information discoverod could not be released due to confidentiality issues. Knight said the victim was offered help through the dean of sludenl'> and Student 1-foalth Services. "It is my understanding that the victim's par­ents have removed her l'rom the university," Knight said. Laura Sweet, assistant dean of Student Life could not comment regarding the victim's rnmoval from cam­pus. Sweet said she acts as an advocate for female vic­tims o/' sexual assault. 

LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
Ac(uWeathcr;., forecast for daytime con<litions. and high tempt!rntures 
H  L  
Friday  tJ  62  40  
Saturday  ~  58  42  
Sunday  ~  64  47  
Monday  ~  64  42  
Tuesday  ~  54  35  
q,~,4A.'6¾Q  ~  ~  ~  
Allanta 72 49 Las Vegas 71 54 Portland 68 45 Baltimore 57 36 Memphis 69 51 Rapid City 49 31 Boston 51 38 Miami 85 67 St. Louis 65 42 Chicago 62 43 New York 58 40 Tampa 84 62 Houston 71 63 Philadelphia 57 38 Wash DC 60 40 


Showers T-storms Ram Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Viii Auoc.ialt,d P10ss Grspn;·csNel 
U. Wisconsin terminates contracts 
MADISON, Wis. 

University or Wisconsin announcfld Wednesday that the contracts· of' eight licensed manufacturers which produce university mcrrhandise would be ter­minated because the companies did not disclose the locations of their factories. Since 0(;tober of 1999. UW has sent three letters to its apparel 1•·:tnufactur­ers. asking for addresses of all factories that pro­duce goods for the university. The final letters. mailed during the second week in March. gave the companies 15 days to respond. according to UW Trademark Licensing Director Cindy Van Matro. The university began requiring full public disc!osurfl on Jan. 1 for the university's 445 licensed manufactur­ers. As of' March 1, approximately 90 percent had complied, Van Matro said. "Full public disclosure is essential to ensuring that products and apparel bearing the university's trademarks are manufac­tured without the use of sweatshop labor," she said. "! am pleased that Wfl have received high coopera­tion from our licensees, and that most of them dis­closed as we requested." 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

0 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY Prtuur• 
® © . El D. . . D r·, ;;:t~. ;&,{!{#,
'>,,' Hi51h Low Shower, Rain T-,,orni, Fh.mie-1 Siiow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
V,,. As,oci,te,;1 P1111s 


Friday, March 31, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CHILD  CARE  CENTER  OR  ASSIST  AT  REUNION  
HEADQUARTERS.  THERE  ARE  MANY  JOB  
OPPORTUNITIES AVAILABLE.  

Christmas in April Benefit Run 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT STUDENT EMPLOYMENT (115 Main Building) OR 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 




THERE SHE IS ••• 

MIKE HARRIS/The Observer Kelly Lloyd Miss Indiana 1999, speaks at Notre Dame Thursday to raise awareness about asthma. Ll~yd is a graduate of Ball State University and intends to pursue a career in broad­cast journalism. 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION NEEDS YOU TO WORK FOR REUNION 2000! 
(June 7-11) 
EARN MONEY AND HAVE FUN AT THE SAME TIME. SHUTTLE FOLKS AROUND CAMPUS, REGISTER GUESTS IN THE DORMS, CARE FOR CHILDREN AT THE 
Pollard honored for w_ork in oncology 
By HELENA RAYAM News Writer 
Morris Pollard, prof'nssor cm·critus of biology, will receive the !lope Award for his prostate cancer research. 
"Based on experiments, prostate rancer is pre­ventabln," Pollard said. 
Trisha Taylor, member of tlrn St. Joseph County Board of Directors for the American CancPr Soc:iflty said Pollard's experiments have beon very beneficial to oncology. 
"It's people like Morris Pollard who arc going to find the Holy Grail, which is the cure for all cancer," Taylor said. 
Taylor is ro-chairing 
the Night of 

"IPollard's] academic countries 
the Stars movod west,
background is
Gala on April the inci­15 with remarkable. When we drnc:e of Kimberly 
looked at his 60 years of cancer in 
Micciche. thosc groups
research. we were just
Pollard will has rism1. receive his blown away." "V\'e'rc award at the looking for­event. ward to thn
Trish Taylor time when
The Hope Award is member, American Cancer Society p e O p Ie wi11 
given to those who do outstanding work in the health care field. The American Cancer Society awards in three areas: patient care, patient services and research. Pollard will be honored for his research. 
"Research is the number one way to find a cure for cancer," Taylor said. · 
Pollard's experiments with rats that spontaneously devel­op prostate cancer have helped him to come to the conclusion that prostate can­cer is preventable. 
"We found that [the rats] were highly dependent on testosterone and if we reduced testosterone, the disease did not develop," Pollard said. 
Isoflavones, anti-cancer mechanisms found in soy­beans, contain estrogen, Pollard discovered. This sub­stance counteracts the testos­terone levels. Thus, when rats 
· consumed a soy protein isolate diet -one high in isoflavones -the number of prostate can­cer cases decreased. "The data shows that of the 
. rats on a soy protein isolate 
· diet, one out of 100 lrats in the experiment! came down with prostate cancer." Pollard said. 

Without the special diet :w out of 100 developed prostate cancer. 
"That is very unique," Pollard said. "It's thr only model of spontaneous prostate ranrm· in the world." 
Por the last 25 years, Pollard has used tlw informa­tion he obtained from his research of rats and tried to apply ii to humans. lle said that cpideminlngir.al surveys came out with information showing that peopln who live in Eastern rountritis had a diet high in isollavones, unlike in Western countries where can­cer is more preva!Pnt. Once people of' the Eastern 
have a soy protP-in iso­late diet," Pollard said. 
After 60 years of cancer research, Pollard's observa­tions are gaining even more recognition. 
"This experiment is attract­ing a lot of attention because the experiment takes two years," Pollard said. 
Taylor, however, said that the significance of Pollard's experiments goes beyond the time he has given them. 
"He received outstanding recommendations from his peers," said Taylor, but added that this was also not the only reason that he will receive the Hope Award. 
"His academic background is remarkable," she said. "When we looked at his 60 years of research, we were just blown away." 
Taylor said that both the professor's research and per­sonality makes it an honor to give Pollard the award. 
"He is incredibly humble and approachable," she said. "The work that he's doing is going to have a direct effect on cancer patients down the road." 
(100 Eck Center). 
(RETURN APPLICATIONS TO THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BY FRIDAY, MAY 5.) 
N\ 'Proluaf> to t?enefit ~~ ~\lll ~'\\ Sponsored By ndf <
R-=--~ o a o~ 
-/ NOTH DAMI FOOD UIVICU 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 31, 2000 





Noble laureate Rotblat to speak at conference 
Special to The Observer 
On a campus not known for its student aclivism, Joseph Hotbhtt stands out. Hotblat. the 1995 Nobel laureate, will give the keynote address at this weekend's 2000 Roads to Peace conference. 
"We have selected this gen­tleman primarily because, while he has been a prominent figure in the nuclear weapons debate, he really earned his Nobel Peace Prize for encour­aging stucl1mt activism," said Nicholas Tyszka, Conference Chair. 
This year's conference is the largest in University history to bP entirely student run. It is also the first student run con­ference to bring in a Nobel Price winner. 
"The presence of such a dis­tinguished individual like Joseph Rotblat shows that this conference is an important venue in American higher f'du­cation for discussing some very serious issues that affect us all," said Tyszka. 
The conference will begin Friday night with Rotblat's address entitled "Averting Nuclear Anarchy; The Current Crisis in Arms Control," in the Jordan Auditorium at 7 p.m. and will continue on Saturday with a series of roundtabln dis­cusssions from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. 

Math prof named Sloan fellolV 
Special lO The Observer 
Xiaobo Liu, associate pro­fessor of mathcmalics at Notre Dame, has been award­ed a two-year research fellow­ship from the Alfred P. Sloan Founcltion. Ile joins Qing llan. Nancy Stanton, Bill Dwyer, Andrew Sommese and Timothy O'Meara as Sloan winners in the Department ol' :via thematics. 
Sloan Hoscarch Fellowships are awarded to holders of a doctoral degree in physics, chemistry, mathematics, neu­roscience, computer scienco or economics. 
Strong evidence -in sub­mitted publications and sup­porting letters -or a nomi­nAe's indcprmdent creativity is one of the most important considerations in Urn review process, and s<'lectinn proce­dures are designed to identify those who show the most promise of making l'undamen­tal contr.ibutions to new knowledge. 

Once choson, Sloan research fellows are free to pursue whatner lines or inquiry most interest them. 
Liu, whose dissertation was titled "Volumn Minimizing Cycl11s in compact Lie Groups," earned his bache­lor's degree in appliod math­ematics in 1987 from Tsinghua liniw\rsity in China and his doctorate in math­ematics from the University of Pennsylvania in l 994. 
Results of his research in differnntial geometry have been published in top jour­nals, including the American Journal of Mathematics, Dukn Mathematics Journal, the .Journal of Differential Geometry and the Annals or Mathematics. 
From 1995-1997, Liu served as a postdoctoral fellow at tlw University of Augsburg and as visiting scholar at the Max-
Planck  lnstitut  fur  
Mathematik  in  Bonn,  
Germany.  

Upon returning to th United States, Liu taught pure math­ematics at MIT before joining the Notre Dame faculty last August. 


THERE'S ONE GREAT THING ABOUT GOING FISHING HERE I THERE'S NO LIMIT. 

ATRIA SALON 
289'·5080 
1357 N. IRONWOOD DR 1 MILE FROM CAMPUS 
MODELS NEEDED FOR SHORT HAIR CUTS WOMEN/MEN FOR TRAINING CLASSES 
MUST MENTION THIS AD JUST $10.00 


F\oor Hol~t'{ • \Jo\\e'{ba\\ Tab\e. Tenni~ • 'Poo\ 
THE DEL IC IOU S BK BIG FISH@) VALUE MEAL. 
After one bite, you'll be hooked on our tasty fish lifet topped with fresh lettuce and tangy tartar sauce along with crispy fries and an ice-cold drink. And best of all, this is one fishing spot that never runs out. 
The Huddle -Lafortune Student r,enter 


HAVE IT YOUR WAY! 

Help them. 




orld 


FriJay, Mar.::h 31, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVFR WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Palestinian police nab alleged extremists 
JERLSALEM 
l'a!Pslinian polin• arrr.strd s1wP11 susppcted llamas cxi.rPmists Thursdav in the V\'Pst Bank and ronf'isratnd w11apons and ammunition llwrP, Pal<'stinian sPcuritv sourcps said. Thr soul'l"rs, spPaking on rnnditio11 ol' anonymity, said 011!' of the mrn arrPslrd was Khaled llildj, :1'.i. th(' !Lunas spokPsman in Jenin, a l'alPstinia.n ('itv at thr. north(•rn l-lnd of tbe Wrst Bank. Th;\ sourcrs said srwuritv f'orcPs r(mlisrntt·d thn\c submachinr guus a1~d 6,000 rounds of ammunition from thf' house of ,tnothPr c1ctivist. ThP scvnn suspects were lakPn to a prison in Jt>uin for interrogalion al'tPr thi'y wrr1' drtainPd by agents of l'rcvt'ntiv(' St•r.uritv. an arm of' Yassrr Arafat's s1•lf-rnle 1'aksti1{ian .'\uthoritv in th1\ West !lank and (;aza. llamas, a violnnt Islamic group, t1pposi's µPacn bl'twPi'n Israel and the l'alt'slinians. 
USDA bans ozone-depleting pesticide 
WAS! IINGTON 
Tlw worldwidl' phasp-out of' an ozone­dPpleting pcsticidP could rnsl U.S. consumers and product'rs $400 million to 5450 million a y<'ar if alti'rnativPs arpn't devr.loprd for farm­Prs to us!', thr government said Thursday. Thr biggPst loss from the phasr-out of methyl bromidn would be to growers of strawberries. Lomators and other vegetables, according to a study rrleascd by the Agriculture Dt'partment's Economic Hesearch Servicr. MPthyl bromide, an odorless, colorless gas, is usPd to fumigal<' thr soil, treat commodities whilr in storagr and nmtrol pests during gov­Prnnwnt-imposcd quarantinrs. California and Florida acrnunt !'or 80 p1~rt·ent o!' ils use as a soil l"umig-anL 
Congo limits tribunal's power 
KII\SHASA 
:\ military tribunal that has passed hun­dreds or dPath sentcnrr,s will no longer havP blankPt authority to trv civilians. Congo's prPsidPnt said rr;llowing rnndrmna­tions of" tlw court bv thn United Nations and human rights gro{1ps. The government is also sPtting up a rommittrr to review the rourt"s convictions. according to a state­nwnt from l'residPnt Laurent Kabila, read on state-run trl1wisio11 Wt~dnesday. The tri­bunal, known as the Military Court of Orcfrr. was set up by Kabila to handle disci­plinP problems within the army after he s!'izPd power in 1997. But it has slowly <'xtrnded its jurisdiction to non-army mat­t.-rs. 

S&P 500: Composite 
1508.52


11020.27 ., 79 
VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPA.m'  TICKRR  ~ !'.'JONG~  i  
crsco SYSTEMS  csco  -3 . .:a  
rfASO.i\Q 100 5/IAR VERI'I'AS S(')P'J'WAR  QQQ VRTS  -2. 50 •1-93  
lNT.E;l, CORP  INTC  -},70  
01\Ar'l,£' CORP  OP.CL  -4.92  
MCI WOFII,DCOM IN  WCOM:  ... ;z. ss  
MICROSO!"'l' CORP  MSF't  -3. 55  
DELL C"/1MPUTER  DE"LL  -3 .02  
PRILlP MORRIS C  MO  . 12.42  
COMPAQ COMPUTER  ceo  -1.:u  

\'ulunie: 1,046,973,376 
eHANCR P~];CE 
-2.442'> fi7. as -2.1500 42. 33 +2-7500 39.30 --i-6750 35 .ei ~4.!J&OO 35 . • q . l.0600 34. 09 ~J.8075 32.03 -1. 622S '31. 52 -+2. 3750 27.16 -2. IHiOO 26. 09 
INDONESIA 


Associated Press 

JAKARTA 
Police fired tear gas to disperse protesters near former president Suharto's residence after he failed to show up Thursday for questioning in r,onnection with a corruption scandal. 
Several students were injured and scores arrest­ed after 200 demonstrators threw stones at riot police blocking off streets leading to Suharto's house in cen­tral Jakarta. 
Chanting "Hang Suharto!," the students demanded that the former dictator be immediately charged with corruption and tried. ' 
Earlier today, 50 protest­ers broke into the grounds of the state prosecutor's office to demand that Suharto be tried. Police and guards stood by. 
It was the second time this month that Suharto has defied a summons to face questioning. 
President Abdurrahman Wahid reiterated on Thursday that he would pardon Suharto if neces­sary, saying Suharto "will be given clemency after he is found guilty." 
A spokesman for the attorney general said Suharto's lawyers sent a letter saying he would not attend the session because he was too ill. 
"He could not come today because he is sick," said Suhandoyo, who like many Indonesians uses only one name. 
Later Thursday, Chaerul Imam, the director for criminal offenses, said a new summons had been sent asking Suharto to appear on Monday. If he does not, prosecutors will question him at his home. 

On Wednesday, a mem­ber of Suharto's legal team claimed his client had a speech problem, slight paralysis of his left hand and that his short-and long-term memory had been damaged by a stroke. 
Suharto managed to attend the wedding on Tuesday of one of his granddaughters. He appeared healthy, walked unaided and was seen chatting with guests. 
Suharto's lawyers and children have for months claimed the former auto­crat was too ill to be ques­tioned. 
RUSSIA 

Troops seek missing comrades after ambush 
Associated Press 

UHUS-~AHTAN 
Hussian soldiers searchr.d a mountainous distrirt of Checbnva on Thursday for 27 con;rades ·who were missing after an ambush -an attack that again demonstrated the vulnernbilitv of Hussian forces in th·c rebellious republic. 
The Red cr·oss, mean­while. announced that Hussian offlcials hme given the organization access to camps in Chechnya wherr detainees allegedly have bPen tortured. 
A 49-man unit was attacked Wednesday near the southern village of Zhani-Vedono, said a top Russian commander, Col. Gen. Alexander Barnnov. Four men were killed and 18 wounded in the ambush, he said. 
"The rebels were-waiting for Lhem," said Sergei Yastrzhombsky. tho Kremlin's spokesman for Cher,hnva. Of the 107 troops in a second convoy that tried to help the first unit, 20 wore hospitalized, and the others escaped unharmPd, the lntRrfax news agency reported. 
Despite the latest losses. Interior Minister Vladimir Hushailo insisted Thursday that Russia was not losing control of the situation in Chechnya. 
"The situation in the republic is not simple and requires constant attention and correclions in the fed­eral forces· efforts," he told lnterfax. "But it is being fully controlled, including in the southern districts. despite continuing sorties of the surviving rebel for­mations." 

But othrr Russian com­manders have said that the rebels could maintain a guerrilla war for some time to come. The seven-month­
oId war has subjected Russia to foreign criticism for alleged human rights violations. 
Russia has rejected the allegations, but in an apparent bow to interna­tional pressure, President Vladimir Putin on Thursday agreed in princi­p I e to allow the International Committee of the Red Cross access to detention facilities. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 31, 2000 


SaintMa~'s College 
NOTRE DAME O INDIANA 
Master Plan Groundbreaking Ceremony 
Above: Members of the Saint Mary's community don hardhats and take up shovels for the groundbreaking of the new Welcome Center and Dalloways. 
Right: Nancy Midden addresses the crowd at the groundbreaking cerernony. 
NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer 

Ground 
continued from page 1 
"I talked to them right !before the ceremony] and they were really sad that they couldn't be here," she said. 
Byan is the third of eight chil­dren. Two older sisters. Molly and Meggie, graduated from Saint Mary's. Her younger brother Tim is a sophomore at Notre Dame. 
''I'm so exdted about this project," Ryan said. "I really think that it is going to do a lot for Saint Mary's. My parents and I have actually had conver­sations about improvements and doing more for the College." 
After the opening comments, dedication and speeches, Eldred, Byan. Jim Martell, Midden and others donned white construction helmets. They broke the brittle ground behind Madaleva Hall with gold shovels, after which the crowd applauded and cheered. 
"The groundbreaking for these two projects is the first of many projects to come in exe­cuting this I0-year Master Plan for Saint Mary's College," Eldred said. "We appreciate thr. support of our donors. particu­larly the Parents Council for all of thP work they have done to provide the f'unding for these two projects." 
Midden. who will graduate in May, was excited about the beginning of the two projects. 
"I am excited next vcar to come back and see the c:hanges and how the students are mak­ing use of it," Midden said. 
"Wn were here for the begin­ning stages, hut I woulrl like to sec the clubhouse in reality." 
"This is a most exciting day for Saint Mary's College," Eldred said. "The future indeed looks bright." 
Friday, l\farch 31, 2000 Ihe Dbierver . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Reflecting pool renovated to honor endowed chairs 
By KRISTEN FrTZPATRICK 
News Writer 
Tlw awa around tlm rpflorting pool in front of thr llrsburgh l.ibrnry is 11ndergning refurbish­ing to honor esteemed profes­sors lhrouglloul Notn• Dame's history. 
Th(: commcmoralive site will honor all endowed professor­ships :ind will fonturn a nPw granite-clad concrete seating wall. on whirh the names of endowPd chairs 'Aili bn otchrc!. 
"It is fitting to honor the pro­fossors in this way sincP they arr lhe lwart of academic lifti at this Univnrsity." said Jfrn Lyphout, vi en prnsirl1• nt or BusinPss OpP.rations and head ol' the pro­jrct 
Tlw project has been funded in part by an anonymous $8 million gift to !'stablish the Edward Frederick Sorin Program for Academic Distinction, compris­ing new endowed professor­ships which arc devoted to nxcollence in the six collc~os and schools of tlrn University. Along with additional funding by the lJnivcrsily, the Sorin Program now totals $15 million in suppoi't for these endowed rhairs. 
A University committee decid­ed that this site should b11 built to honor all Notre Damn endowed chairs and the tradi­tion of excellence in teaching and scholurship they represent. A local architnct worked with the Univorsity to dosign the sitfl to both beautify this area of r,ampus and honor thAse esteemed professors. 
Notrn Dame currently has 125 endowrd prol~ssorships and will add as many as 45 more through the "Generations" cam­paign. 

By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
Ne1ys \l('riter 
Thursday night eight Saint Mary's juniors were initiated into the Phi Alpha Honor Society for social work and the Lambda Alpha llonor Society for anthropology. Tho socielies are based on out­standing scholarly achifwe­mcnt. · 
Inducted into the anthropol­ogy society were MPlissa Corcoran and Melissa Sakalcy. The Epsilon Chapter of Lambda Alpha was founded at Saint Marv's i11 1995. The stu­dents in the society have the opportunity to submit papers to tho Lambda Alpha Journal. 
Arcording to the society's national constitution, the pur­pose of the society is to "encourage and stimulate scholarship research in Anthropology by rerognizing and honoring superior achievement in the discipline among students, faculty, and other persons engaged in the study of anthropology." 
Laurie 13orrett, !\-lolly Buchanan, Marcie Livesay, Jenifer Macnak, Amy Mastagh and Jeanine Mauro received the award, the highest honor Saint Mary's bestows upon students for social work. 
"You have demonstrated a commitment to the standards, ethics and goals of the social work profession," said profes­sor Fran Kominkiewicz, dur­ing the initiating ceremony. "We are very fortunate to have students in a nationally accredited social work pro-

gram." memorial we could do for 
Towards the closing of the [Kristi] right now, ceremony, Laurie Benett, the Kominkiewicz said. president of the social work The social work and anthro­club for the 2000-2001 year, poIo gy departments will be presented each of the seniors having a car wash today from a memory of Kristi Morris, a 3 to 5 p.m. in the Havican Hall senior who died over spring parking lot at Saint Mary's. All break and who had been a the proceeds will be going to 
. social work major and the the Kristi A. Morris fund to social work club's treasurer. help offset the cost of her "This is the most touching funeral. 
Honor societies induct 8 juniors 
1

~il~ll~~~:l~il~i~ J~ll~ilm~l~l~l~l~ll~ll~ll~ll~il~il~I (jjjj1 
l~I 
[~7 ~7 
lij;j] liii.:71
·~ 
t.Jl [~ 
,~1 
lii;JJ
,~1 
•~1 
,~1 
lii.:Jf lii.:JI lii.:JI liij;;Jl 
[~I 
lii:il 
li:J I 
,~, 
liij;;J I li.Jl 
lii:1 I lii.:JI 
li.J l l.;;J ! 
6,JJ lii.:J I 
,~1 
liij;;J I lii.:J,~1I 
,~, 
1.;;Jl lii.:J I 
,~1 
lii.:J I 
,~, 
liij;;J I 6.;Jl 
,~, 
lii:1 I 

Saturday, April 11 2000 
1..:ii 

B:00 p.m. 
(~]

BendixTheatre in the Century Center 
1.;JI

student admission:$ 3.00 
,~, 
fii;:l j

general admission:$ 5.00 -tickets available at the LaFortune Information Desk and at the door­
li;J I 

Transportation u,ill be provided ac no addiclonal charge by Unit'ed Limo 
1..:iI

From Main Circle starting at 7:00 p.m. and running until 12:00 a.m. in fiFteen-minute intervals lii.:J I 1.;;J I lii.:J Ico-sp liij;;J l lii.:J ! 




page 8 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Friday, March 31, 2000 

Join the Global Movement for International Debt Cancellation 
"Jubilee Debt Relief: A Call for Global Solidarity & Response" 
SATURDAY, April 1st 
3:00 -4:30pm 
@ the Snite Museum Auditorium 
ARCHBISHOP OscAR RooR1GuEz-HONDURAS 
SR.  F.sTHER AoJOA ENTSIWAH  -GHANA  
DR.  ELIZEUS RUTEBEMBERWA  -UGANDA  
Please Join us for  

S: OOPM Mass at the Basilica 
April 1, 2000 
Mr. James Wolfensohn. President World Bank Group 
1809G Street. N.W. Washington. D.C. 20433 
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn: 
As Provincials Superior of the Priests and Brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross -Indiana, and in the spirit of the Jubilee Year celebrated on each of our campuses, we are writing to request that you support an immediate suspension of the economic policies and practices that have caused poverty and suffering among the world's peoples. and damage to the environment On the occasion of the first meetings of lhe governing bodies of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund in the 21" century, we further call on you to cancel the unpayable multilateral debt of the world's poorest countries and use the resources of theWorld Bank and IMF to finance this cancellation. 
We make these requests based on the call of our faith for solidarity among the members of the human family, genuine debt relief in the spirit of Jubilee. poverty reduction. and global economic justice. Pope John Paul II has been eloquent and unrelent­ing in his call for debt relief. He has noted that the existence of debt is "suffocating" quite a few countries. and that "the Church in her pastoral concern cannot ignore this difficult situation._." I urge you, in your position as President of the World Bank. not to ignore this situation any longer but to propose and support immediate and significant action to cancel the debt which seriously threatens the lives of millions of people that our Congregation ministers to. throughout the world. 
Archbishop Medardo Mazombwe of Zambia has written that "The debt problem is not simply an economic issue. It is fundamentally an ethical issue because it is a radically human problem, affecting the well-being of families. the survival of the poor. the bonds of community, and the security of the future.'' We join with the Archbishop and with the Bishops of the United States. and urge you Lo take the opportunity of the spring meetings to address the debt issue. making the year 2000 a true Jubilee year for the world's people who need il most. 
We will e11perience a true Jubilee only when the well being of all, including the world's most vulnerable people and ecosystems. is given priority over macroeconomic adjustment and neoliberal economic policy. We urge you. in the spirit of Jubilee justice. to take courageous action now: abandon the failed policy of structural adjustmem and cancel the debt of lhc world's most heavily indebted countries. 
Sincerely,  
(Rev) William Dorwart. CSC  Dr. William Gccnen. CSC  
Provincial Superior.  Provincial Superior. Brothers of Holy Cross  
Congregation of Holy Cross -Indiana  Notre name. Indiana  
Nmre Dame. Indiana  

What Can You Do to Reduce the Debt Burden on the Poor? 
The IMF and World Bank will be meeting in April to make decisions on lending policies among the worlds poorest countries. Come by the CSC or Saint Mary'.~ Justice Education office and pick up your own draft of letters to the IMF and World Bank. Communicate your concern aboutfai!ed lending policies in writing orjoin others in Washington on April 9th. You can bring your letters on April 1st, or mail them directly to the IMF or World Bank. A letter may feel like a small step, but you are joining your voice with millions across the globe, including the Holy Cross family of Congregations to make the statement that during this year ofJubilee, we must forgive the multilateral debt! Questions? Call 631-5293 
Friday, March 31, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
UGANDA 
Sect leader's estranged wife: Husband didn't control cult 
Associated Press 
K.\13Ui\1BA 

Eight yPars aftnr Joseph KibwPtl'rn n.banrlonnd his ramily to lwlp f'orm a doomsday sect, his fadPd blac:k-and-whit0 pho­tographs still adorn his wife's lionrn, alongsidP pictures of IPs11s. tlJ1• BIPssed Virgin Mary and tlw Pope. 
Tlwy urn r<'minders of happi­f'I' tinrns, _savs Th0rnse Kihwetr,rc -bdore self­riPsnilrnd visionary Crerlonia Mwnrinde mm·ncl into her home and took ov1\r lwr husband's !iii>­
Joseph Kibw<itcre, a former school administrator who had a lif'Plnng int11rl'st in Catholic visionarins. lrns bnPu \',,idcly tout!'d as tlw l<1adnr of tlw Mownwnt for tho Hnstoration of Llw T1•n Commandnrnnts ol' God. 
Bnt his Pstrangc•d wifP said this WPPk it -was :\11 werindl\ nol lwr husband. who conlrolled tlw S<'('t. wlH'rP slw was known as "Tlw Programmer." 
'"WhHlH'VN anvthinu was to lw clonr. it was c:rcdo~ia," she said. 
Who orclwstrnt(•d 01w of' tlw worst mass murdHrs in rccPnt history bccamP cvPn more pr('ssing Thursday. as authori­li!'S u1warthed 80 more bodies­in a ('.ompound linked to the sect. 
Tlw discovery brought to 724 tlw number of dead found so far. A lil'th property used by the rnlt has yet to be excavated. 
Klnveterr:, Mw1irinde and otlwr sect l1mders had predicted 
that the world would end Dec. 31. 
When that didn"t happrrn, authorities believe, mnmbcrs demanded the return uf posses­sions they had surrendered to join the sect, rebelled and were slaughternd. 
Ugandan authoritiPs wPre pla1ming this week to ask the international police coordina­tion agenq· Interpol to issuo arrest warrants for Kibv1,·eLere, ~lwerinde and three others. 
Kibwetere, 64. is bclie,'ed to have perished in the March 17 infPrno at thP sect's compounrl in Kanungu, which killed at least 330 sp,ct followers. 1\,fwerinde's whereabonts at tho time of the fire arP unknown. 
On Aug. 24, 1988. Mwerinde dai1m1d to have had a vision of the Virgin Mary in a cave in the southwestern Ugandan villagn of l\'gakishenyi. said her former comrnon-las,v husband. Eric Mazima. !\ wr,rk ln.ter, she left him. 
Mazima challrenged her cam­folly cultivated image as a rcli­gio us devotee, saying she claimed lrnr visions and turned lo rnligiun only after the cou· pie's joint business went bank­rupt. 
Until then, ho said. she ran a shop in Kanirngu that sold banana beer and a fiery local liquor. and had been regarded as notoriously promiscuous. 
"She went to church onlv once 
a year," he said Thursday in an 
interview. "Sundays were days 
of making business. She was 
after money." 
Tim lnadership of the Ten 
Comnrnndments Movement was she was deniod any sexual con­largely a family affair, Mazima tact with her husband. said, with relatives of the 48-Mugambwa believes his father yPar-old Mwerinde serving as and Mwerinde had a sexual four of the sect's "12 Apostles." relationship. "I suspected it," he 
Four months atter leaving her said. "Someone who talks to husband, Mwerindo met God must he more righteous." Kibwetere in Nyamitanga, According to Mugambwa and where he and his wife harl gone his mother, MwerindP soon to hear her testify about her revealed a penchant for cruelty, visions. exploding in 
JuvPnal rages, beat-Mugambwa, ''I've l,een receiving i n g 
KihwPtere 's Kibwetere's 
messages from God that
son, said children and Mwerinde told the Virgin Mary is demanding 
his f:1tlrnr the annoyed. People are total obedi­Virgin Mary ence to her
sinning too much and
had directed divinely lrnr to God is going to end the inspired mes-· 
Nyamitanga to world because ofthe sages -all find a man the while
sins." 

c a I I e d saying she "Kibwetere," spoke direct-who would Credonia Mwerinde 1v for 1he take them to Virgin Mary. 
cult leader 

his borne After a few when' they months, talk-would spread _ ing was her mPssagfl to the world. banned in favor of sign lan­
That evening, Kibwetere guage, Mugamhwa said. Meals drove home to Kabumba with were cut frum three to two, his wife. Mwerinde, Mwerinde's with two days of fasting each sister and two other friends. V\eek. 
Mugambwa described his Finally, as the house swelled father as a perfect figurehead in -with the movement's adherents, a country where male leader­mothers were separated from ship is deemed necessary for their children. any group's legitimacy. Mwerinde enforced her rules 
"He had status, he had money through visions, retiring alone and he had a vehicle," to a room to write and receive Mugambwa said. "programs from the Virgin 
Within davs of their arrival, Mary," Mugambwe says. She Joseph Kibi·etere and his wife would then emerge with the had moved into a room with declaration: ''I've been receiving Mwerinde and the three other messages from God that the women. Therese Kibwetere said Virgin Marv is ilnnrrni>rl Pi>nr-.lo 
are sinning too much and God is going to end the world because of the sins." 
Children bore the brunt of Mwerinde's harshness, Mugambwa said. She beat his sisters and forced 60 children to live in a 15-by-40-foot backyard shPd. Tho windows werP nailed shut and the childn=m forced to sleep on the dirt floor. They fre­quently were infected with sca­bies. By then, Mugarnbwa had been cast as an enemv. 
"When I offered th~m sweets, they refused. making a sign that I was Satan," he said. 
i\fter three years of abuse, Kibwetcre's extended family urged him to expel Mwerinde and the three women from the house. 
After he refused, they forced the women out. Kibwetere went with them. "He said we were not his children and she !Therese KibwetPrel was not his wife." 
Kibwetere moved with Mwerinde to Kanungu. her hometown, where he became a bishop in the fledgling move­ment, donning a bishop's ring and church vestments to signify the role. 
He returned only to Kabumba once, for a funeral. He never spoke to his family throughout the entire visit. 
Left behind with the pictures on a wall mantle in Therese Kibwetere's home is a framed printed version of what she said was her husband's favorite prayer "Oh Lord God: Help me keep my big mouth shut until I 
lrnnu, urh!lt T !lm t-.:a1lrlnrl' -.:ahnnt,, 
PPE THE CONCENTRATION IN PHILOSOPHY, POLITICS, AND ECONOMICS 
The PPE Concentration invites applications from undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting areas of political philosophy, political theory, and economic analysis. Every year about twenty highly motivated and talented students are admitted to PPE. Check it out to see if it is for you. Many of our students go on to careers and top graduate programs in law, public policy, philosophy, political science, and economics. 
If you are looking for 
( 1) an integrated approach to politics and justice, without all the requirements of a second major, and 
(2) an intellectual community of faculty and students who share your interests, 
then PPB wants you! 
FOR MORE INFORM.ATION, contact either Professor David O'Connor, Philosophy 
Department, O'Connor.2@nd.edu, 631-6226, or Professor John Roos, Government 
Department, Roos. I@nd.edu. 
FOR AN E-MAIL APPLICATION, simply send a request to Professor David O'Connor at O'Connor.2@nd.edu. The application deadline is noon on Friday, April 7. Late applications will be accepted only if openings are still available. 
page 10 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, March 31, 2000 
Gephardt accuses Republicans of manipulating census 
:\ssociarecl Pres., 
WASHINGTON 

House Minoritv Leader Richard Gephardt chided several congressional Republicans on Thursday for tPlling constitw=mts to ignore what they consider intrusive Census questions, accusing them of opposing an ,1ccurate count for "their politi­cal purpose." 
Gephardt said Demorrats "haven't gotten criticism" .about the form but SPnate Minority Leader Thomas Duschle said his office has been getting questions about it. 
But Gephardt, D-Mo .. main­tained. "the Republicans have been trying to frustrate this cen­sus from the beginning. They don't want more people 
ro·unted "The Repulicans have 
encouraged

because they 
been trying tu .frustrate people "who 
think it serves 
are worriPd

this census from the
thPir political 
aboul some 

purpose. beginning." 
of the ques­

That's a pretty 
tions and 

shoddy reason 
about the

Richard Gephardt
to do what 
govPTnment

House minority leader
thPy'rn doing." 
interfering in 

Responded J o h n Czwartacki. spokesman for Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott: "If he's not getting any rails, I think he's the onlv mem­ber of Crmgress who isn't>' 
Lott's office and at least two House Republicans said they had received a number of complaints in recent days about questions on rensus forms. Reps. Nick Smith. H-Mich. and Tom Coburn. R-Okla.. were sperifically critical of the long-form questionnaire, sent to one in six of the country's 115 million households. 
Earlier Thursday, Czwartacki said that Lott has been heavily promoting the rensus in his state, but was also suggesting l.o callers concerned about privacy to leave unanswered those ques­tions they felt were intrusive and mail it back to the CPnsus Bureau. 
Dasr.hle. D-S.D., said. "It is of concern, I think, to peoplP that the questions asked and the length of time required has made it somewhat problematic." Daschle said he has advised peo­plP not to skip questions. "I'm not sure Lhal it is anything that we ought to address, at least at this point," he said. 
During a campaign stop in Milwaukee. Texas Gov. GMrgr. 
W. Bush, the likely GOP presi­dential nomi­nee. said he 
their person­
al lives to think about it." lie luter udded he was not telling people Lo ignore census forms because they're important "for a head count." 
Democrats have long support­ed incorporating a statistical method known as sampling to raw census numbers. Sampling would adjust actual head counts to account for populations with traditionally low response rates, sud1 as minority groups in cities. Republican lawmakers have opposed sampling, fr.aring it could force a redrawing of' boundary lines to their disadvan­tage. 

Czwartacki said LotL bas done television and radio ads 1mmur­aging census participation. But he added it was better to leave questions nnansvvered because "if the choke is belweeu the trash can and partially filling it out. we're going to tell peoplr. to flll out as much as they can." 
C,•nsus director Kenneth 
Prewitt on Thursday called the long form an "essential tool" to help communities across the country. 
Even questions that some Republicans labeled as intrusive. such as "how old is your home" and "are you a veteran?" are useful to determine how local services are provided, Prewitt said. 
There are 53 questions on the long form this year, down from :i7 in 1990. 
Members of Congress received a detailed list of the questions two years ago from the Census Bureau and had a chance to weigh in, said Hep. Carolyn Maloney, D-N.Y., ranking mem­ber of the House Government Reform Committee's census panel. 
Malo11ey said that six months ago, Lott and Sen. Jesse Helms. R-N.C,, sought to require all recipients of the short form tu state the.ir marital status. 

HOMES FOR RENT 
2000-2001 SCHOOL YEAR 
-Domus Properties has 3,4,5, and 8 bedroom houses available -Student neighborhoods close to 
campus -Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 2000/2001 school year 
BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT 
Contact Kramer (219)274-1501 or (219)234-2436 or (219)674-2572 

Friday, March 31, 2000 Page 11
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

fe-~t, ? rail~ all in one, 
Join us for all or 
Sc,he-dv/e, of ~e-nt~ 
part of the day! 
10:00am Registration & Breakfast 
10:30am  Kick-Off  
• Music & Prayer  Paul Hillebrand & the Celebration Choir  
• Welco1ne  Fr. Jim Lies, CSC & Fr. Bill Wack, CSC  
• Special Message  Archbishop Oscar Rodriguez  

11 :40am Breakout Sessions 
• Topics include: Nurturing Mature Christian Friendships • Debt Relief in the Jubilee Year • Reconciliation • Starting a Daily Prayer Time 
• also, Eucharistic Adoration begins in Fisher Hall Chapel 
12:30pm Lunch 
1 :15pm General Gathering 
• 
Music & Prayer Paul Hillebrand & the Celebration 

• 
Personal Stories & Reflections Fr. Jim Lies, CSC & Fr. Bill Wac 

• 
Student Talk Amy Seamon '00 

• 
Original Music Danielle Skorich '02 


2:25pm Breakout Sessions 
• Topics include: Jesus, the Healer• Mary through the Ages• Liv Catholic Social Teaching • Discerning My Lifls 
·. General Gatherin 
Paul Hillebrand & the Ce 
4:30pm 

Sa 
South Din~I 
10:00 am ­
For more info: fsantoni 
page 12 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, March 31, 2000 
Castro ready to send Elian's father to U.S. 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

Talks resumed today between the U.S. government and Elian Gonzalez' Miami rel­atives. ,vhile the 6-year-old boy's Cuban father apparently was ready to jump on a plane to retrievr him. 
Late Wednesday, the Immigration and Naturalization Service delayed the revocation of Elian's tem­porary residency status 24 hours. until 9 a.m. Friday. 
The two sides met for five hours late Wednesday, then resumed talking this morning. There was no comment from either side today. 
The talks were extended at the relatives' request, a Justice Oepartmfmt official said, speaking on condition of anobymitv. 
Elian has been living with his great-uncle Lazaro Gonzalez, who has said he would be will­ing to release Elian to his father if Juan l\liguel Gonzalez came to Florida from Cuba. He said he would not deliver the bov to the !:'JS. 
J\.pparently calling the great­unde's bluff. Cuban President Fidel Castro said not only would the father go to the United States. he would stay for the entire court process as the Miami relatives appeal fed­eral orders to surrender cus­tody of the boy. 
"The passports are ready," Castro said. "And of course the airplane is ready." 
He said a lawyer was seeking 

U.S. visas for the father and a large entourage. The Cuban government today issued a list of 31 people who would accompany Juan Miguel Gonzalez. including his wife and their 6-month-old son ­
Elian's half brother~ as well as Elian's first-grade teacher and some classmates. 
At her weekly briefing in Washington today, Attorney General Janet Rrno said that if the boy's father comes to the United States, one option would be to move Elian to his custody in this country while the appeals court considers the case. 
"This case has been heart­breaking for everybody involved," Reno said. "But we believe the law is clear: The father must speak for the boy because the sar,red bond between parent and child must be recognized and Elian should be reunited with his father." 
Reno said she believes most family disputes arc best worked out bet,veen families, rather than by government officials. 
SnvPral thousand people ral­lied around the Gonzalez home in the Little Havana neighbor­hood late Wcdm'sdav. "We arr· not going to allow them to take the kid," said Oscar Pupo, 56, a Cuban-born U.S. dtizen. 
Elian has been living with Lazaro Gonzalez since he was found in November on an inner tube off the coast of Florida. The boy's mother and 10 others died when their boat sank as they tried to reach the United States. 
The Miami relatives went to court to keep Elian, and their lawsuit is now before a federal appeals court in Atlanta, with arguments scheduled for the week ofMav 8. 
INS spokeswoman Maria Cardona said the agency will tell Lazaro Gonzalez how and when he is to relinquish cus­tody of Elian unless the two sides reach an agreement. 
Idaho town fights bad publicity 
Associated Press 
COEUR [)'ALENE, Idaho 

Embarrassed by the sight of neo-Nazis parading through town at the l1eight of' tourist season, r,itv leaders have decid­ed they, tc>o, can use the First Amendment to their advantage. 
They are hiring a human rights coordinator with public relations experience whose job will inrlude publicizing all the good and decent things people are doing in Coeur d'Alene. 
It's the latest tactic in a battle that has seen locals first try to ignore the white supremacist group Aryan Nations, and then stage r,ounter-demonstrations. The end result was national media coverage showing pic­tures of swastika-wearing extremists marching down the main street. 
''Good deeds and positive activities never garner as much attention as the remarks of a r,razy who doesn't represent anybody," said Jonathan Coe of the Coeur d'Alene Area Chamber of Commerce. 
THE 

Mayor Steve Judy will choose the coordinator, who will work with the news media, advertis­ing agencies and religious groups to develop programs that promote respect for others. The goal is to focus media attention on positive activities, rather than hate marches. 
Among other things, the coor­dinator will set up a Web site, organize public meetings and answer queries from the media about hate groups. 
Money for the full-time post of coordinator was donated by the Carr Center for Iluman nights Polir,y at Harvard University. Founder Greg Carr is an Idaho native. 
Richard Butler, leader of the Aryan Nations, ridiculed the notion of an Aryan-buster. "For white people to have to hire somebody like that because other people want to remain white is intPresting," he said. 
The Idaho Panhandle is a region of beautiful lakes and forested mountains that draws thousands of tourists and retirnes. The elegant Coeur d'Alene Resort on the r,ity's lakef'ront has 18 floors of rooms to fill, at rates of up to $2.500 a night. 
In Kootenai County, tourism in 1999 ar,countPd for 5,800 jobs paying $66 million in wages. With the region's timber and mining industries suffering, tourism is a major reason the population of the county leaped from 69,000 in 1990 to 98,000 in 1997. Many of the newcom­ers are moving into $500,000 homes springing up all over the area. 
At the same time, Idaho has gained a reputation as a hate­group stronghold. A recent report by the Northwest Coalition for Human Dignity identified 11 white supremadst groups in Idaho, 10 of them in the Panhandle. 
Among them is the Hitler-lov­ing Aryan Nations, which moved to a ranr,h in the area in the 1970s and declared it was r,reating a white homeland. Civic leaders fear that marches by the Aryan Nations in 1998 and 1999 are scaring away tourists and business opportu­nities. 
TASTY BACON 
CHEDDAR WHOPPER~ 
THINK OF IT AS A WHO PP ER® T H A T ' S DRESSED UP WITH SOMEPLACE TO GO. 

THE WHOPPER' WITH A NEW TWIST FOR A LIMITED TIME. 


If you're already a fan of "America's Favorite Burger,"* why not try it a whole new way? With crispy bacon and melted cheddar cheese, it's sure to put a smile on your face. So head to a BURGER KING'" restaurant soon and make sure to bring your appetite. 
The Huddle -LaFortune Student Center 
Fnday, March 31, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 13 
Study: Awarness key to prevention 
Associated Press 
LOS A'.\iGELES 

One-third of LJ.S ho1rn~s with rhildrcn have at least onr. lirearm and nr.arlv hall' of thr.m keep the weapons· uns0cured. a study round. 
Fortv-th rte<' prrcnnt or such honws ·kept one or morn guns in an unlockr,d place and without trigger locks. and guns w0re kept loadPd as well as unlor.ked in 9 pncrnt. acrording to researchers at Hand Corp. and the l'niversity of California, Los Angelos. 
Thr findings undersrnre the niwd to mak1\ adults mon' aware that l'irr.arms arr accPssiblc• to manv children and that lhnv need to k;~np ll1e weapons out o·r their hands. said Dr. Mark Schuster. a UCLA p,,diatrir.ian and llw sludy's lead author. 
Th<' study. r<'leasi1d Thursday. was reported in the April issue of' the American Journal of Public !lfrnlth. a public:ation of the Arnr,rican Public lie al th Association. 
Tl1r• issuP of' child rnn ·s access lo 
guns has bornnw a national focus 
as schools rPpPatedly bPcnme 
sr,·1ws of' violPn1·P. ranging from 
tlw killings al Columbi1w lligh 
Srhool in Colorado last yPar to a 
(1-war-old shooting a classmate in 
Michigan last month. 
Th (' stu dy us0 d in fo r m a ti o n from intervi(•ws or 45 .435 house­holds f'or tlw 1')94 National llealth lntrrviPw SurvPy and additional qu0stio11ing or 19,374 of thosn housc\holds in a supplement that inrludnl a S!'t·tion rovnring 
!1rearms, Schuster said. The sur­veys were administered by the National Center for Jlealth Statistics. 
Firearms arc present in 35 per­rent of U.S. homes with children -.--representing mom than 11 mil­lion homes with more than 22 mil­lion children younger than age 18. according to the study. 
The 9 percent of those homes that keep firearms unlocked and loaded would translate into homes with 1.7 million children, two years. 
"The fact that at least one major gun manuf'arturer is going to be building safer Firearms is good news," Schuster said. "But it's still the responsibility of par­en ts and other adults to keep firearms out of their children's hands." 
National lliflc Association lob­byist James Baker said he was not surprised by the study and he cited National Safety Council data showing gun accidents at an 
researchers "The fact that at least all-time low. found. Another 4 "We think
one major gun 
percent of the education and
manufacturer is going to 
homes have guns training is the that arr be building safer key to reducing unlocked and figures," Baker
firearms is good news. " 
with ammunition said. "We don't stored nearby. believe new laws 
Mark Schuster
"Thus, a total will impact what of about 13 per­UCLA pediatrician and author goes on in 
cent of homes ­about 1.4 million homes with about 2.6 million chil­dren -had firearms stored in a manner most accessible to chil­dren." the report said. 
Just 39 percent of homes with firearms had them locked, unloaded and stored separatrly from ammunition, it said. 
Schustr.r said in an int11rvicw that while school shootings make clear the need to limit children's access to firearms. there are promising signs. 
Smith & Wesson, the nation's largest gun manufacturer, has agreed to provide external safety locks on all its handguns within 60 days and internal locks within 
homes. Ultimately. families will decide what they feel is best for their particular circumstances." 
Joe Waldron. executive director of the Citizens Committee for the Right to Keep and Bear Arms in Bellevue. Wash.. said: "Considering the millions of homes that have firearms in them, the fact that firearms acci­dental injuries and deaths arc at their lowest point in U.S. history indicates the problem is not as great as the study indicates." 
Hand, the Santa Monica, Calif., think tank, does research on national security, public policy planning, education, health, sci­ence and tr.chnology. 
School bus-train collision claims 3 lives, injures 5 
Associated Press 
TENNGA, Ga. 

A deadly train crash that ripped a school bus off its 
wheels claimed a third victim Wednesday. 
Amber Pritchett, 9, one of seven students on board 
the bus when it was struck at an unprotected rural 
crossing early Tuesday, died Wednesday night a 
spokeswoman for T.C. Thompson Children's Hospital 
in Chattanooga, Tenn., said. 
Kayla Silvers, 6, and Daniel Pack, 9, were killed 
when the CSX freight train smashed into their Murray 
County school bus at about 50 mph, ripped the bus 
from its chassis and dragged it 100 feet down the 
track. 

Four other r,hildren and the driver were seriously 
injumd. Two children remained in critical condition 
Wednesday. 

Gov. Roy Barnes joined hundreds of people on the 
lawn at the Murray County courthouse Wednesday 
night in Chatsworth for a candlelight vigil. 
"All I can say is to cherish them. You never know 
how much you'll miss them till they're gone," said 
David Silvers, Kayla's father. 
Barnes said he planned to review Georgia laws gov­
erning stoplights and gates at railroad crossings. 
Sc;hool officials rerouted the buses Wednesday lo 
avoid driving over the railroad crossing where the 
crash happened. At the site, eight yellow ribbons were 
tied to the railroad crossing signs. 
The chairman of the National Transportation Safety 
Board urged srhools around the nation to investigate 
whether their buses use railroad crossings that lack 
lights or signals. 

"I am very concerned and personally do not br.lieve 
that any grade crossing in the United States should be 
crossed with a school bus of our children when that 
crossing does not have lights or signals," NTSB chair­
man Jim I-Jail said. 

Attention Students, Faculty and Staff 
At its meeting on Thursday, March 23, 2000, the University Committee on Computing and Information Services (UCCIS) met and discussed the impact that a program named "Napster" is having on University computing resources. As many ofyou are aware, "Napster" is a computer program that acts as an intermediary between computer users who wish to find and trade music files. Use ofthe program has raised serious concerns about network system security, security ofpersonal computers systems, computer resource (bandwidth) management, intellectual property and copyright violations at college campuses across the country, causing nearly two hundred universities to prohibit use of the "Napster" program on their systems. 
The UCCIS is concerned about these issues as well as the resultant cost to students, faculty and staff. Because conservative estimates suggest that between 25-40% ofResNet traffic is "Napster" use, the UCCIS has recommended that the Office ofInformation Technology immediately implement a moratorium on "Napster" and similar programs. Accordingly, and consistent with the policy on Responsible Use ofInformation Technologies at Notre Dame, we have directed OIT to immediately implement measures to prevent usage ofthis type ofsoftware. 
The UCCIS believes that the moratorium is necessary so that core University academic and administrative computing needs can be met and so that an actual deteonination can be made ofthe impact ofthe use of"Napster" on campus. The UCCIS anticipates that the moratorium on the use ofsuch programs could become permanent at a later date. 
Please know ofour appreciation for your understanding and recognition ofthe need to appropriately provide for and protect the University's academic and administrative computing needs. 

Dr. Jeffrey C. Kantor 
Dr. Carol C. Kaesebier ( ev.) Mark L. Poorman, C.S.C. Vice President and Associate Provost Vice President and General Counsel Vice President for Student Affairs 
page 14 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, March 31, 2000 
Goldin: NASA will not abandon 'faster, better, cheaper'approach 
Associated Press 
PASADENA, Calif. 

NASA Administrator Dan Goldin is taking the blame for last year's botrhed Mars missions. saying he pushed too hard. cut too much and made it impossible for spar,ecral't managers to succeed. 
But Goldin said he will not abandon the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's "faster. better. cheaper" approach. l\tission managers will get enough money and people to do the job. but there won't be a return to the days of big. expt>nsive spacecraft. 
"We're going to make sure they have adequate resources. but we're not going to let the pendulum swing all the way back." he told employees of NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory. whern Mars Polar Lander and Mars Climate Orbiter were managed. 
Goldin visited the lab Wednesday. a day after two rnports were released on the rnr,ent Mars fiasr.o. They found mis­management. unrealistir, cxpertations and anemic funding were to blame as much as tho mistakes that actually doomed the missions. 
"In my effort to empowP,r people. I pushed too hard." Goldin said. "And in doing so. stretched the system too thin. It wasn't intentional. and it wasn't malicious. I believed in the vision. but it may have made some failure inevitable." 
Richard Cook. project manager of the lander and orbiter at JPL. agreed with the reports but said no single person should be blamed. 
"We're all part of this," he said. "The constraints were r,er­tainly part of it. but sonw of the ways we did business r,ould stand to be improved." 
Investigators found resources Wflre spread too thin for suc­r,ess Too many risks were taken hy skipping critical tests or overlooking possible faults. And nobody noticed or mentioned the problems until it was too late. 
The $165 million Mars Polar Landor was most likely doomed by a sensor that mistook a spurious signal for land­ing when the legs deployed, causing the descent engines to cut off while it was still 130 feet above the planet's surface. 
The problem r,ould have been easily resolved by beaming new software to the lander during its 11-month cruise -if it had been noticed. said John Casani. a former JPL chief engi­neer who led one of the investigations. The lander was last heard from Dor,. 3. 
Mars Climate Orbiter was lost Sept. 23 when nobody real­ized that Lockheed lvlarlin Astronautics delivered navigation dala in English units rather than metrirs. The $125 million craft burned up in the Martian atmosphere. 
Their combined cost was about the samr as the last suc­
r,essful spacecraft to land on Mars -Pathfinder in 1997. 
Sinr,e 1993. NASA's budget has decreased by 5 percent. During that period. 146 payloads valued at $18 billion were launrhed. About $500 million worth of that was lost. Goldin said. 
got news? 1-5323. 
ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS! 
Interested in the 
Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships? 
Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will discuss the scholarships and inform you of deadline dates and the Fall application process on 
Monday, April 3, 2000 
6:00 p.m. 101 Law School 
11 you are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of informa­tion may be obtained in 102-8 O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 
Judge rules against Jackson, Hale 
Arndt called thP ruling barring The Rainbow/PUSH Coalition 
Associated Press 
Jar.kson and white supremacist fought to cut the expulsions to Matt llale "good news." one year and has since ralliedDECATUH.lll. 
Lewis Myers Jr.. lead rounsel against the kind of zero toler­A judge has approved a per­for Jackson's Hainbow/PUSH ance discipline polir.y used inmanent injunction barring the 
Coalition. said he plans to Decatur.
Bev. Jesse .Jackson. a white appeal. llendrian said the r.ontrover­
supremacist and numerous "It's just more of that board sy could be a detriment to
other protesters from demon­
building walls rather than Decatur education.
strating within 50 foet ol' any 
bridgos," Jar.kson said. 'There can be no doubt thalDecatur high sr.hool. 
Over about 10 days in if PUSH is allowed to continueThe ruling by Mar.on County Novrmber, protesters were in its demonstrations, prayer vig­Circuit Judge Jamfls llendrian Decatur almost daily, mostly on ils, rallies and press confer­extends a temporary injunrtion 
or near the grounds of ences in the same manner as it
he granted in December af'ter Eisenhower lligh School. has dono in the immediate
Jackson r,amc to Decatur to 
At that school's football game past, lhere will be further con­
protest. thP expulsions of six 
Sept. 17, students got involved tinuing and irreparable disrup­black studAnts for J'ighting in 
in a hloacher-clearing brawl tions to the educational process
the stands at a football game. 
that ended with six expelled for in the three Decatur high
Superintendent Kenneth 
two years. sr.hools," the judge wrote. 
QUALITY Service • Student Di ounts • Gift Certificates • Guaranteed Satisfaction! 
What's Your Plan? 
Get a Fun Tan! 

We've kicked open the doors at the new FUNTAN University facility on the corner of 23 and Ironwood! Near Kinkos. FUN TAN brings you the newest innovations in designer tanning with beds and booths that deliver 40% more tanning rays than any other bed on the market~ 
Why settle for less? 
272-7653 NEW University Lo.::ation State Road 23 & Ironwood 256-9656 Comer of Grape and McKinley 291-2000 Southland Plaza Ireland & Ironwood 

Friday, March 31, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 15 
No Summer Plans ?? Here is a service-learning opportunit for credit: 

• Service-Learning opportunity 
• $1,700 Scholarship/3 _credits (additional $1181.00 from Americorps available) 
• 8 Weeks volunteer work with a disadvantaged population 
•  room  and  board  provided  
Sponsored by  UND  Alumni  Clubs  
(ND  students  only  
Applications:  Center  for  Social  Concerns  

Projects available: 
Boca Raton the Haven, home for abused neglected kids Blue Ridge YWCA programs Calgary Street Teams, working with teen prostitutes Cincinnati Boys and Girls club (local student) Detroit Mercy Hospital, Infant Mortality Program Dubuque Camp for children with physical disabilities Ft. Wayne Matthew 25-low/no income clinic (car) Indianapolis Children's summer programs, family shelter Jackson, MI Home for pregnant teens Kalamazoo migrant worker ministry -(Spanish needed) Marion, IN Abuse programs Michigan City,IN camp for developmentally disabled adults Goshen, IN Boys & Girls Club Rockford, IL medical, (car going to be Jr of Sr., female) Worcester, MA Dismas House 
and more tl#tl 
Ct:,,,r!!R rQC 
SOCIAL 

Student Peace Conference 
The Hesburgh Center for International Studies AT THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
FRIDAY, MARCH 31, 2000 
7:00PM-Joseph Rotblat; 1995 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate and Fou_nder of Pugwash Conferences 
9:30PM-Opening Party at the Center for Social Concerns 
SATURDAY, APRIL 1, 2000 8:30AM -Registration &Continental Breakfast 
9:00AM-Opening Remarks by Nicholas Tyszka, Conference Chair, and Chuck Wilber, Acting Director of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies 
9:30AM -Morning Sessions 11:45AM -Lunch 12:45PM -Afternoon Sessions 
3:00PM -Panel Discussion, "Living A Peaceful Life After Your Studies Have Ended" 
4:00PM -Closing Address by Betsy Fader; former Executive Director of Student Pugwash and currently of the Doris Duke Foundation 
All e'/Jents are free of charge and are open to the public. 
For more iriformati.on, please call che Kroc Institute 
at: (219) 631-6970. A complete schedule ofevents is also available at the conference's web site al: http://www.nd.edu/-krocinst/2000Roads.litml 

Date rape drug death puts four in jail 
Associated Press 
DETROIT 

Three men were sentenced to up to 15 years in prison for manslaughter Thursday in one of the nation's first trials involving a death linked to a "date rape" drug. 
A fourth man received a shorter term for his part in the death of 15-year-old Samantha Heid of Hockwood. All four were convicted March 14. 
In January 1999, Samantha asked for a drink at a 
party and "Since her death, people er." 
terms of up to 15 years, the maximum for involuntary manslaughter. 
Erick Limmer, 26, of Grosse Ile, was sentenced to up to five years for being an accessory to manslaughter. 
Samantha's mother, Judi Clark, had urged the judge to sentence the men to the maxi­mum. 
"Since her death, people ask me how many children I have and I don't know how to answer," Clark told Wayne County Circuit Judge Maggie Drake. "I don't know. I'll have to deal with that forev­
was given a 
ask me how many
soft drink 
spiked with children I have and I the drug don't know how to 
known as 
answer.

GHB. She became vio­lently ill, lost Judi Clark consciousness 
mother 

and died the next day. A friend also ingested the drug and was briefly in a coma, but survived. 
GHB has been linked to at least 58 deaths since 1990 and more than 5,700 recorded overdoses, according to the Drug Enforcement Administration. 
Joshua Cole, 19, of Southgate; Daniel Brayman, 18, of Trenton; and Nicholas Holtschlag, 18, of Brownstown Township were sentenced to 
A few drops of col­orless, odor­less GHB mixed into a drink can render a vic­tim uncon­scious within 20 minutes. 

Victims frequently have no memory of what happens while under the drug's inl1u­ence, and it is difficult to trace, often leaving the body within 24 hours. 
Its sale has been banned since 1990 by the federal Food and Drug Administration. Last month, President Clinton signed legislation toughening federal laws against possess­ing, making or distributing GHB. 

*Studebagel' s 
*Atria Salon *Lula's Cafe *The Frame Factory *Papa Vino's 
*Alumni Association *Cinemark Theatres *Steak 'n Shake *Sheer Phazes *Olive Garden 
*Colorado Steakhouse *Reeker's *TGIFriday' s *Martin's *Hollywood Video *Hammes Bookstore *Francesco's *Don Pablo's *University Hairstylist *Beacon Bowl *Fun Tan *Macri's Deli *Meijer 
*and to all those who attended 
THANK YOU!!! 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

page 16 BSERVER Friday, March 31, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, !'.otte Dame, IN 4C,'.i56 024 South Dining Holl, Nom Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 'vfike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BusJNFSS MANAGER  
Noreen Gilbpir  Tim Lane  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  O1'£RATI0NS l\1MMGF.R  
Tim Logan  Brian Keosler  

NEWS Eol'fOR: Anne Marie Ma"ingly V1EWl'O!NT Eo!TOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE FDITOR: Amand,1 Greco SAJNT MARY'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: (iz Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER; Pat Peters Ao DfSIGN MANAGER: Chis Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTR,\T0R: Mike Gunvil!e WLB ADMlNlSTRAT0R; Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL JNF0..............631-747 l FAX..... ... ... .. ...... . ............. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................63!•6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CH!EL......................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOru'AsST. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE................. .....................63l -53 l.~ NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWl'OINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SroRTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. I@nd.edu ScENE....... ..................................... 631-4540 observer.scene. I@nd.edu SAJNT MA!lv's....... .....................................631-4324 
observer.smc. I@nd.edu PH0T0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obseroer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rile Associated Pres.s. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-ro-rhe 
movies/music for 
minute forecasrs 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features fur spe­
and rates ofprint ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
to meet the editors and 
articles published afi:er 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and on line by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Sairn Macy's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofrhe administration ofeirher institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverrisemems based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, lecrers and columru present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lecms to the Editor must be signed and must include contact mformarion. · 
Questions reg,rrdin<~ Oburver polirier should bt direct• ed ro Edita,;,, Chief Mike Connolly. 
DILBERT 
I MUST RETURN TO THE FUTURE. NOW, -YOUR 
MAJE$n'. 


Come alive, be your best and brightest 
What is your goal in life? 
That was a question that haunted me in my last years of Notre Dame and even for the last couple of years since I graduated. I never had an answer. I never had a goal. 
I spoke with a friend of mine the other day who is absolutely killing herself to get all of her work done in the time that she has between Saturday sunsets. There are onlv 168 hours in a week. She must be awake and using nearly 14 7 of them for her activiiies. She is working what I know to be at least a 25-hour-a-week job, is a full-time student and is studying for placement exams into a professional school. 1\/ow, if this were anyone else that I know, I would have watched !"or the steam to begin pouring out of her ears and making that annoying whistling sound like in a cartoon. 
But this person is usually such a workhorse that she would do all of that and still look for more things to fill up her time. Why? Because she has a goal. That is not to say that you have to plan out everything that you want to do with yourself for all of the rest of your life. Such a planned exis­tence is a soulless existence that would never be conducive to creativi­ty on any level. It also docs not mean that whatever you set as your goal needs to remain your goal throughout your life. When we are young we set our goals too high and are disappoint­ed when we fall short. It is easier to set goals so lo.fty that they are unat­tainable or not to set goals at all when you are in college. You live a rather sheltered life that allows you to dream and to consider great things without applying it to your life. 

After graduation I·set myself" the goal of visiting all 50 states in 12 months. I did it, but at the expense of some of the quality sights that I might have been able to better appreciate had I spent more time and only seen a portion or the country. 
Then. I had nothing. I lived with my mother and drifted through life at a snail's pace. I was still immersed in that sheltered life that kept me from thinking of goals that I could actually apply. It wasn't until I shocked myself into the real world that I realized what I could do with a job and gradu­ate school. I began to develop goals for my life. 
As we age we amend those goals to ensure that we will meet them. A lawyer that I knew in Florida two years ago said to me, "As I get to the point in my life where my career winds down, I find comfort in the fact that I don't need to change the world in order to make my mark." 
That is the realism of it all kicking in. Once you have come to grips with the fact that you will probably not be the one person who leads mankind to world peace, you will live a much happier existence. But that doesn't mean that you should eliminate those thoughts right now: far from it. The world thrives on people with big ideas. 
One classmate of mine quit his job as a computer engineer to pursue lib­eral arts MA and a classicist's life. He likes to quote a leader of the civil rights movement when he says, he wants to do what makes him come alive because "The world needs peo­ple who have come alive." 
Without some goal. some dream, nothing ever gets done. Sure. those of you who care more about going out to parties and arranging your social cal­endar will have a good time for the time being in college. But trust me. I was once in that mode, I once didn't care what I was going to do with myself. 
It is hard to rebuild your dreams in the real world. Use the time that you have know and find out what makes you come alive. Then, strive to be the best and brightest at whatever it is. 
Yes you will fail. No there are not enough hours in the day to do every­thing that will make you the best. But. if you don't have a goal and don't try, how do you know what you will accomplish. If you want something bad enough, you have to sacrifice for it. That will make the failure at least one that came about despite your entire effort. But it will also make the success that much sweeter. 
Matt Loughran is a former Observer News Editor and currentily attends graduate school at Saint John ·s College in Annapolis, Md. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
...50 -YOU COULD BOSS /\ROUND THE TIME TRAVELERS. 

"It's a short walk.from hallelujah 
IN THAT to the hoot. " 
CA.SE , DANCE FOR f'I\E. 

Vladimir Nabokov novelist 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
Friday, March 31, 2000 BSERVER page 17 
Aging population raises euthanasia concerns 

You should tell your grandmother about PRPA. It may keep her from being killnd someday. Let me explain. 
The Controlled Substances Act (CSA) makes it a federal crime for "any per­son" to dispense a "mntrolled substance" without autho­rization. The CSA also provides for registration of physi­cians to authorize them to dispense controlled substances for medical purposes. The 1997 Oregon Death with Dignity Act allows a physician to prescribe drugs to enable a patient to end his own life. Such action by a physir.ian could violate federal law. But Attorney General .Janet Reno has ruled that the federal government will no! take action against any Oregon physician who prescribes drugs for assisted suicide pursuant to that Act. 
PHPA. the Pain Helief Promotion Act, passed by the llouse of Representatives and pending in the Senate, would overrule Hcno. It would forbid "intentionally dis­pEmsing ... a controlled substance for the purpose of caus­ing death or assisting another person in causing death." The American Medical Association and others object that PRP/\ will cause physicians to undertreat pain for fear of prosecution. PRPA's prohibition of intentional killing adds nothing beyond existing laws prohibiting homicide in general. But it might r.ause some physicians to be cautious in using sedation. 
PRPA also affirms that "alleviating pain or discomfort ... is a legitimate medical purposn for ... dispensing ... a controlled substance ... even if [it) may increase the risk of death." This reflects the approach taken by the Supreme Court in 1997 in upholding state laws that prohibit assisted suicide. The Court. in Vacco v. Quill. said: "Just as a State may prohibit assisting suicide ... it may permit palliative care ... which may have the foreseen but unintended 'double effect' of hastening the patient's death." "[Plainkilling drugs," said the Court. "may hasten a patient's death, but the physician's purpose and intent is, or may be, only to ease his patient's pain." 
It can be very difficult, however, for the law to determine whether the sedating physician's intent was to relieve pain or to cause death, unless there is exceptional proof of intent to kill. Moreover; in the 1990 Cruzan case, the Court allowed the states, in effect, to pmmit intentional killing by physicians. In Cruzan the Court allowed Missouri to permit the removal of a feeding tube, pursuant to the patient's inferred desire, from an incompetent patient who was not dying, was not in significant distress and had a life expectancy of 30 years. The removal was intended to cause Nancy Cruzan's death to relieve her of a life considered burdensome or useless. 
In Cruzan the Court invited the states to turn a blind eye toward intentional killing through withdrawal of food and water. It is fair to expect the law to be tolerant also of intentional killing by sedation and ultimately by lethal injec­tion. Through legalized abortion, euthanasia and popular support for the death penalty. our culture accepts the intentional infliction of death as a problem-solving technique. Three of the 27 patients who died under Oregon's assisted suicide law in 19<J9 took over 11 hours to die from the orally ingested drugs and one took 26 hours. A lethal injection is more efficient. We use it on convicted murderers to spare them pain. Why not in these cases? 
Cultural and demographic trends make the ultimate legalization of active and even nonvoluntary euthanasia predictable. Contraception and abortion have reduced the number of working people available to support the elderly and disabled. The fertilitv rate in the United States has been below the rnplacemcnt level for more than two decades. In 1900, there wore 10 times as many persons under 18 in the United States as there were persons over 
65. By 2030, there will be more people over 65 than under 18. Between 2010 and 2030, the number of persons over 65 in the U.S. will rise from 40.4 mil­lion to 70.3 million. but the working-age population between 20 and 59 will remain stationary at l 60 million. Who will pay tho bills for all those old folks? The aging of the population will generate pressure on the old and infirm to nicognize what former Colorado Governor Richard Lamm called their "duty to die and get out of the way." We arc paying the price for being on the wrong side of what social historian Allan Carlson calls "the contest between a vital faith that welcomes children and a secular individualism that does not want them." 
PRPA is a worthy effort to affirm that physicians should try to heal, and not intentionally kill, their patients. If PRPA causes a single physician to think twice about giving his patient -who could be your grandmother -a "mercy death," it will be worth the effort. The real solution, however, requires more than law. 11 requires the building of what John Paul IJ calls "a new culture of life," especially through prayer. 
Professor Rice is on the law School faculty. His column appears every other Tuesday. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Obesr11er. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Return eating concerns surveys 
As of this week. 1.417 students have returned completed Eating Concerns Surveys out of the 7,500 surveys sent out. This is a 19 percent return rate. Even though it has been about a month since this survey was sent out, we urge those of you who have not filled the survey out to do so. This is a very important survey for the Notre Dame student body. If you have misplaced or thrown out the original survey, please call and request another from the University Counseling Center, 631-7336. 
Rita Donley and Dominic Vachon 
Scaff Psychologists, University Counseling Cenrer March 30, 2000 
Discovering there is a 'Notre Dame family' 
There are a lot of reasons to complain about Notre Dame. We can start with the reigning queen of complaints. parietals. and throw in single sex dorms, lack of diver­sity. ultra conservatism, gender relations in general. an administration that treats us like children, poor dining hall food and a lack luster football season. 
Complaints like these appear in the opinions section of the Observer on a daily basis. They are things that I gripe about, too. Things that need to be changed. Things that may change in time. But, I complain less these days. 
Lately, 1love Notre Dame. I always liked the school, from when I got here freshman year -the beautiful campus, nice people, fun, if not always successful, football sea­son. But now I can say, with all honesty, that I love it. 
Along with the torturous forced interaction of freshman orientation, new students are bombarded with somewhat cheesy talk about the "Notre Dame family" and the "spirit of Notre Dame." To me, (I am, perhaps, a bit on the cynical side), this talk seemed rather hollow. That's nice ~-------.--------------, 
that the administration wants us to feel welcome, I thought, but it's just a school. I had not yet been enveloped in the "spirit", as it 
was called. I would not be for almost two years, until three 
weeks ago, when we learned that 
my good friend Conor Murphy (a Zahm Hall resident) has 
leukemia. 

Although my realization of the Notre Dame family is just one of many latent effects of this horri­ble news, it is an important and a comforting one. _At home in Cleveland ·over spring break, I was able to visit Conor in the hos­pital and witness first hand the strength he draws from his con­nection to Notre Dame. 
Letters and cards, many of them from people somehow con­nected with Notre Dame, brighten the walls of Conor's room. There are the obvious ones from those who are close to Conor: room­mates, friends, his rector. But the 

ones that make me smile the most are from people that hardly know him: a former TA. Coach Doherty, among many, many others. There is even one from the mother of another sophomore. She writes that her daughter (who, herself, barely knows Conor) called to tell her about the terrible news. She sent along an inspirational tape that helped her when she fought her own battle with cancer. 
Father Scully talks to Conor on the phone on a regular basis, has been to visit him and will go again. During his last visit, he relayed information from the doctor that Notre Dame arranged to give a second opinion for Conor's situation. Father Jim Lies, rector of Zahm Hall, has also made the trip to Cleveland several times. He says mass for Conor's family in his hospital room. Other priests whom Conor barely knows, call and give him advice and spiritual guidance. Even the student body. with attendance at the 24-hour grotto vigil held before break, messages in journals and banners and prayers, give Conor extra strength and support. 
A friend of mine and Conor's, who attends the University of Virginia, remarked over break that, at times, she regrets not attending a Catholic school. She said, through all of this, she realized that Notre Dame has such community, such a bond of faith and common purpose. Realistically, she is probably much happier at UVa than she would be as a Notre Dame student. There are other aspects to a school. other reasons to attend, some benefits from diversity rather than the homogeneity here at Notre Dame. But, this community. this "spirit". has become an aspect that I value highly. An aspect from which I. too, can draw strength in hard times. 
i realize that some people see my thoughts as hollow or cheesy. Once I mentioned the Notre Dame family, many people probably zoned out, moved onto the horoscopes or the goofy cartoons that poke fun at our school. But, coming from a borderline cynic, someone who used to roll her eyes at phrases like "spirit of Notre Dame", there is a sense of community and family at our school that is hard to find elsewhere. I hope you don't have to go through hard times to appreciate it. Maybe you will never find it. But know it's out there ... if you ever need it. 
Katie Sanders 
Sophomore, Farley Hall March 29, 2000 


cene 
page 18 Friday, March 31, 2000 

Spring break 2000: students sha 
Students tell Scene about their spring break trips and the interesting 
It was a blustPrV South Bend ly thrilled with 
Immediately, we morning as we pr.epared to the 13 extra decided that embark on our first-ever rol­guests. but we wherever our lege Spring Break. There were didn't extend friends were, they nine girls and five boys head­our welcome could stay there ing for our -we were up until the morning. destination and out on the and we would deal of Jack­open road by 5 with it then. sonville. a.m. We were so tired Fla. -14 Although we and anxious to get pale, encountered a back that we overexert­few flurries in broke every major ed fresh­the Carolina speeding law ever men. mountains, the passed trying to packed weather was make it before into three good for the dawn. We must SUVs. and rest of' our trip have cut the ready for down. I had a two-hour trip in an adven­bit of trouble half. We were ture in the obeying the less than two Sunshine "stay off medi­miles from State. My an" signs we our hotel when car was passed along I looked in my one of the three in our r,ara­the way. There rearview mirror van. and for the first hour of was one death­and saw two flash­our trip down 31, all was well. defying ing blue lights sig­I was jamming away to my encounter with naling me to pull new Backstreet Boys CD (and, the grassy null over. As it turns r.onsequently, annoying every­separating the out. I was hauling onP else in the car) and watch­lanes while 75 mph in a 35 ing cornfield after cornfield go reaching back mph zone. As I by. We oven had a frisky cou­to open a diet pulled over, I ple in the bar,kseat of the car coke. That almost broke down providing an extra-friendly aside, we in tears in front of' atmosphere and. consequent­breezed into the officer. He ly, entertaining us all for the Florida without asked me if therr majority of the trip. Then the any major set­was any reason rain started. backs. l'nr my hastP in 
"No problem." I thought, as I We arrived in returning home. turned on mv windshield Jacksonville So, I told him wipers. "This will pass. It's BPach earlier thr rntire just a front" Tlrnn came the than expected. sweeping story snow. "Just a little reminder of and once at our of our Daytona what we're leaving behind." I hotel, we imme­(\Xperienr:P rnnfidently told my car, as my diately stripped and he let mP knuckles were turning whitP down and head­off with a warn­from gripping the steering ed to the beach. ing (most likely to wheel a bit tightPr. When. the Th11 weather shut me up. but. slePt began to pound on my vvas beautiful, whattwer it was. it window and icicles were form­and the beach worked). As it ing on my wipers. however. I had all the turns out. our brgan to grt a littlie nervous. qualities or a missing friends Contrarv to what the commer­sr.enir postcard, had spent the rials tell you. a 4x4 vehicle besoeching you night in a Daytona isn't stellar on icv roads. lo visit all the hotel room and 
Then. looking in my splendor of the caught a bus rearview mirror, I realized white sand and home thr next that the third car wasn't blue water. aftrrnoon. I behind us anymore. We hadn't We spent our spent thP day even reached Indianapolis yet, days at the recuperating on and we were already separat­beach. and our the beach and try­ed. (It wouldn't be until the nights exploring ing to find the Tennessee state line when the Jacksonville acquiring a ton of free promo­people would stay and search humor in the previous they would catch up to us.) nightlife. Our stretch of beach night's activities. as everyone
tional stuff and, of course, for our missing friends, and But. I was determined to brave was small and peaceful; a per­checking out the locals. By the everyone else would go back else seemed to be doing. the elements. Nothing was fect place to relax, read, throw time dusk. was settling over to .Jacksonville. Just my luck, I Daytona is certainly a place I'll going to stop my car from get­the Frisbee around, and forget the horizon we were ready to was one of the chosen. After remembf'r well. 
ting to Florida. Not rain, sleet, about that biology test looming sec what the Daytona nightlife waving the rest of our friends The rest of our trip was hail. ice or in the near had to offer. Campus favorite off, we began our search. uneventful, but I didn't mind.! an absent future. We went Stroke 9 was performing at Tlrnre we were, amid thou­had arhieved all of my goals
Daytona, I've decided,
vehJcle. out most nights one of' the nearby hotels, so sands of drunken teenagers, for the week; I got a tan, had Never have l was built for college and spent one we decided tD go. looking for three in particular. some fun and came back with felt more students. The alcohol very interesting The concert was great fun; We combed the beaches, some good stories. Overall, it like the post evening at a tech­the audience was lively, the searched the hotel, the pool, was a great way to spend a
flows freely and cloth­
office. no club named music was great and a good lhe shops, even the club down week away from school ­
Once we ing is at a minimum. J--120. But, we time was had by a.II. Arter the the street. They were nowhere with good friends and in a left Indiana, It's a co-ed's paradise. decided we need­final encore, however, it was to be found, and the clock was beautiful place. As we made the weather ed one absolutely after midnight. and everyone approaching 2 a.m. Finally, we our way bark to South 13end. started to wild night of in our group was tired, inebri­spotted one of our friends we were greeted by rainy. cold perk up, and untamed adven-ated, sunburned and ready to wandering around on the weather, but we were glad to 
the rest of our drive was ture, so one morning we get back to Jacksonville. While street. prosumably, looking for be home. We were all happy, rather uneventful. Well, packed our duffel bags. piled we were deciding who was us. One down, two to go. We sunburned, exhausted and except for the large Billy into two cars and headed to most importantly, all acrount­
going to ride in what car, how­kflpt searching, but it was to Blanks poster that I swiped Daytona Hear.h. ever, we n'alized that we were no avail. As we were making ed for. from a Subway in Ohio. (It's Daytona, I've decided, was 
a party of 11. Looking back, one final check outside of' the quite a prize, ~eally, and is built for college students. 
we realized that we hadn't hotel, we walked directly into hanging up outside of my Rows upon rows of hotels line 
seen those three since midway the beginning of.a knife fight. dorm room if you'd like to see the beaches. the alcohol flows through the concert. As one of the nearby bouncers 
it.) To break up the trip, we freely and dothing is at a min­We couldn't leave three peo­beat the tar out of the offend­The opinions expressed in stayed the night in my beauti­imum. It's a co-ed's paradise. this column are those ofthe
ple in the wildest city south of ers, we decided that our time ful hometown of Knoxville, We all had a great day, tan­the Mason-Dixon Linc, so a in Daytona was spent, so we author and not necessarily Tenn. My mother was certain-ning (and ultimately, burning), compromise was reached. Two got in the car and left. those of The Observer. 

cene 
h1day, March 31, 2000 page 19 
e their scares, sagas and stories 
ople and events they encountered on their jaunts across the continent 
SCENE ASKS 
Did anything bizarre happen to you over break? 

"We got chased !Jy four old, 
"My friend got naked men who didn't propositioned speak English on the beach by a high in Florida. " schooler." 
Colleen O'Connor

Vandy Hench and Jo Jameyson freshman, Welsh
juniors, Farley Hall and Walsh Hall Hall 

"I caught my brother 'entertaining' his grilfriend." 
Chas Grundy freshman, Dillon Hall 
"J saw a police "We got stuck in an elevator
officer stop for three hours with a
chasing a mother and her two 
suspect because screaming children -one of
the crook which had a dirty diaper." 
jumped a fence." 

Tiffany Fox and Kerry O'Reilly 
Holden Bonwit freshmen, Holy Cross Hall
freshman, Dillon Hall 

Something is bound to go wrong somewhere 


WP plan l'or it months in All four young, strapping men carrying food particles and all. house. Was it a coincidence that Luckily, I made it to the crowded advancP. WP purchas<l nPw tried their best to IH't the car and "It was disgusting -it was my in reality, MTV is filming "The strip unscathed. wardrnbPs. go tanning, diet and dislodgo tlrn jack -but the r.ar poop and it was coming up 11eal World" up the street? We I searr,hed the whole town work-out like c:raz(!d kids to g1\t wouldn't budge. They were through the bathtub." Matt said. should have had a guest appear­!well. mavbe a few blocks) before our bodiPs in pnf'Pct shap<'. approached by a "surly, old Irish After r.onfronting the tub with a ance. Though the others I was giving up.hope I found the per­!lumor has guy." Josh said. wet-dry vac, Matt and his friends with were fect street r,orner it that somP "I le kept telling us things. but "got the hell out ofDodge a day familiar with All we needed was a and was preparing pPoplP PV('n the only word. we could under­early." each other, I to sit down and
video camera and some
lt>t tlwir liv­stand was 'lift! lift!"' My spring break trip was an was a total cry like a little Prs takl' a It wasn't until they were joined odd rombination of "Road Rules" outsider. melodrana and we would orphaned child bnmk by this mysterious resrnrr that meel'i "The Real World" with a All in all, when I noticed
have been set for MTV 
beforn bcinl{ they were able to sucr,essfully lift touch of "Home Alone." the week was someone was ,L<;saultcd in the car. replace the tirn and con­All of my spring break plans fell an interest-already occupying th11 long­tinue on their wav. through. There was the camping ing experience in that corner. There sat a young awaited Matt Orenchuk.regales the inci­trip with my siblings: failed. The socialization.The highlight had to man singing and playing guitar. I wed;. of dent that occurred during his visit charter boat fishing trip with fam­have been St. Patrick's Day when befriended him instantly and debaud1('ry. in Vermont. Matt was staying at a ily friends: failed. The road trip to I was separated from the group -spent St. Patty's Day with him, his No. this isn't friend's grandmother's house on New York: failed: trip to Boston: left to wander the dark streets mother and his friends. I never Antostal. a bPautiful l.ake. The Wednesday failed: running away to Indonesia and drunken masses of the Big would have thought that I would 
This is ol' break. Malt felt nature calling, with a Zen-Buddhist: failed. Dul I Easy on my own. Though I had spend an evening with what some spring so he stepped into the upstairs was not to be deterred. One thing enjoyed the independence and might label a vagrant. but I don't bn,ak -col­bathroom. was certain -I was not going to unfamiliarity of my trip up until regret for an instant. From start lt'g<' style. After answering the call. Mau spend a week at home. this point, I now found it unnerv­to finish. my trip was an intro­
But. alas. we an! mere college tried f'utilelv to flush the toilet. It When the opportunity arose for ing and frightening. I felt.like a spective on random meetings kids. Though we may feign wouldn't g1~ down. Due Lo the me to take a road trip to New small child looking for my mother with odd characters. I'm still responsibility in our little campus poor plumbing of the old house, Orleans. Ijumped at it. So maybe in a large department store. A<i l waiting for MTV to offer a bid on world. there an, some things we the contents of the toilet backed I had only knmvn one of the guys wandered from the meeting place my story. just don't know how to deal with. up in the pipes and started lo for a week. And mavbe I didn't towards Bourbon Street, I noticed No travel agent. website or 
Senior Josh Bourgeois and his come up through thP bathtub meet the other two travelers until a suspicious character lurking in upperclassman's recommenda­friends ha.d just arrived in Ireland drain "There was this murky, the morning ol' our departure. the shadows. I was definitely tion can prepare us for these and rented a car when they were brown sewage water fllhng the But we all piled into my truck and being followed by this tall, older lessons in fun. But never underes­beset by an int('rrsting dilemma. tub," Mntt said. headPd southbound. All we necd­man with long, dark hair and a timate the strength in old men. Whill' driving along a narrow Though the bathroom plumbing e9 Wa'i a video camera and some long, gray beard -very odd look­the value of solid plumbing or the road to lrrland's highest pub. was inopPni.blP. Matt and his melodrama and we would have ing. Earlier that day. I had pur­kindness ofstrangPrs. they accidentally hit a ror,k pro­friends thought they could at least been set for MTV. chased a bottle of Louisiana hot truding from the mountain side. use the kitchen sink to wa.c;h dish­The situation became even sauce for my father. I firmly The opinions expressed in this resulting in a flat tirP. A" they es. However, they soon discov­more interesting in New Orleans. grasped the bottle in my hand, column are those ofthe author attl'mpted to lift the car to replace ered that the drain in the kitr.hen whern all four of us -plus some -ready to brandish the glass and and not necessarily those ofThe lhl' tin'. tlw jack bpcamP stuck. was also flmptying into the tub, were crammed into a smnll hot sauce to fend off any attacker. ObsenJer 
page 20 The Obser11er . SPORTS Friday, March 31, 2000 
NBA 
Rogers, Marion lead as Suns shoot down Hawks 
Aosociatcd Press 
ATIANTA 

Rodney Rogers scored 21 points and Shawn Marion added 18 as the Phoenix Suns dealt the Atlanta Hawks a record-tying 118-74 defeat Thursday night. 
Penny Hardaway handed out 11 assists as Phoenix improved to 2-2 since league assists leader Jason Kidd went out with a broken ankle. 
Phoenix outscored the Hawks 70-32 in the paint and gut 14 points from Cliff Robinson and 13 off the bench from Don MacLean. 
The 44-point margin of defeat at home tied a record set when the Hawks lost to the Los Angeles Lakers 134-90 in 1972. The franchise's worst loss ever is a 47-point defeat. 132-85 at Philadelphia in 1982. 
Jason Terrv and Jim Jackson !rd the Haw.ks with 11 points apiece. 
The Suns trailfld 18-10 before going on a 52-18 run that ended with a layup by Rogers 5.5 sec­onds before halftime. 
Phoenix picked up it second­highest victory margin this sea­son. It beat the Los Angeles Clippers 114-68 on Feb. 2. 
Heat 105, Bulls 80 
Tim Hardaway had 16 points and eight assists as the Miami Heat dinched a playoff berth for the fifth straight year with a vic­tory over the Chicago Bulls. 
Alonzo Mourning added 15 points in only 18 minutes of action, and Jamal Mashburn scored 12. Three Heat reserves -Clarence Weatherspoon. Otis Thorpe and Rodney Buford ­each added 10 points. 
The victory avenged two earli­er embarrassing defeats to Chicago. It was Miami's second­largest margin of victory this season. The Heat beat the Celtics 115-89 on Jan. 25. 
Miami, in first place in the Atlantic Division. led Chicago 53-39 at halftime. The Bulls pulled within 64-55 on a 14-foot jumper by rookie Elton Brand with 4:51 to play in the third quarter, but the Heat respond­ed. pushing the lead back up to 
17. 
Brand was the only bright spot for Chicago. with 17 points. Fred Hoiberg had 15. 
Miami jumped on the Bulls early. The Heat shot 62.2 per­cent from the field (23-of-37) in the first half and led by as many as 17. Mourning had 13 in the half on 6-of-8 shooting from the 
field. . 
After leading 9-7. the Bulls never were ahead again. Miami has won 15 of its last 16 at home, with the only loss coming 
last week to the Lakers. 
The Bulls arc 6-33 against teams at .500 or better, and now have a 13-game road losing streak. 
Miami was coming off two poor outings. The Hrmt srorrd a record-low 19 points in the sec­ond half of its loss Sundav in Orlando and blew a 28-point lead at home against Phoenix on Tuesday before pulling out a win. 
Nets 107, Raptors 103 
A foolish technical foul and an unfortunate encounter with a rookie ruined Vince Carter's 39­point night. and the Toronto Raptors lost for the fifth time in six games. to the New Jersey Nets. · 
Carter picked up a technical for halfheartedly throwing the ball at Scott Burrell after a hard foul with 3:31 left, then had his shot blocked by rookie Evan Eschmeyer with 35 seconds left. 
The two plays were keys for the Nets, who kept their slim playoff hopes alive as they pulled within 4 1/2 games of idle Orlando for the final playoff spot in the East. 
Carter matched his third­highest scoring output of the season but got little help from his teammates. Starting point guard Doug Christie did not score. and shooting guard Tracy McGrady scored all 10 of his points in the second half. 
The Raptors. currently fifth in the conference, had their lead over sixth-place Charlotte cut to just a half-game. The Raptors and Hornets play Friday night at Charlotte. 
Keith Van Horn had 32 points to lead the Nets, who gut a big boost from Eschmcyer in his second straight start. Three of Eschmeyer·s four blocks came against Carter, and the 6-foot­11 rookie from Northwestern also had eight points and eight rebounds. 
Stephan Marbury added 17 points, Kerry Kittles had 16 and Elliot Perry 12 for New .Jersey. 
The Nets opened up a 21­point lead flarly in the third quarter on a. jumper by Kittles that made it 60-39. before Carter started going to work to pull the Raptors back into it. Carter scored 17 points in the third quarter. which ended with the Raptnrs trailing 77-7J. 
Perry and Johnny Newman each had a jumper and a drive in an 8-0 run that put the Nets up 89-82 with 5:52 left, but Toronto had one comeback left. 
The Raptors trniled only 93­89 when Carter picked up his technical. and Van Horn made the foul shot to make it a five­point game. Carter then went lo the line and made just one of two, turning an opportunity to make it a two-point game into a wash. 
The closest Toronto gut after that was 96-95 on a three-point play by McGrady with 2:12 left. but Kittles and Van Horn fol­lowed with 3-pointcrs. 
Tilnberwolves 122, 
Rockets 90 
Kevin Garnett scored 25 points and Terrell Brandon added 21 as the MinnP-sota Timbervvolves beat the Houston Rockets. 
Brandon and Garnett domi­nated offensively as Minnesota shot 60 percent from the field. Brandon ha.d 13 assists and Garnett had nine rebounds for the Wolves, who have won seven of their last eight. 
The Wnlves remain 2 1/2 games behind the Phoenix Suns in the race for fourth place and hnmecourt advantage in the Western Conference. The Suns beat the Hawks i 18-7 4 on Thursday. 
It was the eighth straight road loss for llouston. which was led by Walt Williams' 18 points. Kenny Thomas and Steve Francis had 16 each for the Rockets. 
The Timberwolves held the Rockets to 37 percent shooting. Anthony Peeler had 15 points fo'r the Wolves and Joe Smith had 10 rebounds. 
Twelve of tlrn L! players on Minnesota's roster scored al least two points. Dean Garrett was the only player who didn't score. 
For the first nine minutes. Houston looked like it was going to Force both teams to keep up with the Rockets' frantic pace in which Houston had scored over L20 points in back-to-back games earlier in the week. 
But poor shouting, sloppy passing and a couple of embar­rassing turnovers by Steve francis doomed Houston. 
The rookie let the ball slip out uf his band on an open layup attempt in the first half and had the ball snatched away by Garnett a few minutes later while driving. 
The Wolves shot 71.4 percent in the first quarter and took a 65-49 halftime lead. Minnesota led by as many as 18 points in the second quarter and shot 
66.7 percent in the first half. 
The Timbrrwolves pulled away with a 9-2 run late in the first period and Houston never got closer to within seven points. 
Spurs 102, Warriors 90 
Tim Duncan had 19 points. 17 rebounds and six blocked shots and David Robinson scored 27 points as the San Antonio Spurs beat the Golden State Warriors for their fifth straight win. 
The Spurs started slowly. trailing 19-7 midway through the first quarter, but finished strong in handing the Warriors their eighth straight defeat. 
San Antonio (47-25) took con­trol with a 23-8 run to open a 76-60 lead in the third quarter. Golden State got as close as eight several times in the final period. the last time with just under a minute lo go. 
Mookie Blaylock had 19 poinl'l and Larry Hughes 17 for the Warl'iors. 
Robinson had 13 points and nine rebounds in thfl first quar­tPr as tho Spurs trailed 31-26. 
Spurs coach Gregg Popovich attempted to get his team untracked by calling two time outs in the first four minutes and three in the first quarter. The Spurs finally cut the lead to five by the And of thfl first quar­ter, but still trailed most of the first half. 
Only a three-pointer by Jaren Jackson with G. 7 seconds left gave San Antonio a 53-52 edge, its biggest lead of the first half. 
Trail Blazers 96, 
Mavericks 85 
Rasheed Wallace scored a season-high 34 points as the Portland Trail Blazers snapped a four-game home losing streak with a victory over the Dallas Mavericks. Wallace hit 16-of-22 shots from the field and Steve Smith added 22 points for the Blazers, who had lost six of their last eight games at home and had dropped eight of 14 overall. 
Michael Finley scored 30 points to lead Dallas, which had won four straight on the road. Dallas' loss clinched a playoff spot for the idle Sacramento Kings. 
Wallace's 34 was a season high for the Blazers. topping Damon Stoudamire's 30 on Feb. 24. 
Portland led 77-69 at the end of three quarters. but Dallas pulled within four points down the stretch. Finley's jumper with six minutes left cut the Blazers' lead to 84-80. but after the teams traded turnovers, Scottie Pippen drove the baseline for a dunk to put Portland up 86-80. 
Wallace then added a reverse layup. a hook shot and a mid­range jumper to seal the win. 
The Blazers started the third quarter with an 8-0 run and lfld by 10 points most of the quarter as Wallace had eight points, including six in the first two minutes. 
The Ohserver accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right co edit all classifieds for concent without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Store Hours Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Mid Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat: Noon-6:00pm Sun: Noon-Mid Free Pick-Up & Delivery! Call 631-COPY We're open late so your order will be done on time' 
ARE YOU MOVING TO BOSTON NEXT FALL AND LOOKING FOR A ROOMATE? WANT TO LIVE NEAR HARVARD SQUARE? I'M GOING TO GRADUATE SCHOOL AND LOOKING FOR A FEMALE INTERESTED IN SHARING AN APARTMENT IN CAMBRIDGE, MASS. CALL EMILY AT 634-3142 IF YOU ARE INTERESTED. 
WANTED 
TEACHER WANTED: ND/SMC families need teacher for next year to instruct children In home setting. Part-time position. SalaryNacation negotiable Call 258-9707 SUMMER JOB: Caregiver: two chil­dren, ages 7&8. Mon-Fri,7:30AM­3:15PM. Jun 12-Aug 18 Granger. 272-6107 or 284-3485 
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT: ART 
EDUCATION ASST. 
for Snite Museum of Art. Assist Education Curator with sum­mer youth art program focusing on museum subjects and related hands-on activities. 
June 5th to July 28th, 10 hrs/week. Fine Arts major with experience teaching and/or working with chi!­dren preferred June 26th to July 28th additional Work Study hours -if eligible -with National Youth Sports Program to make a total of 40 hours/wk if desired PLUS room and bored included June 26th to July 28th. Call educa­lion curator Shannon Masterson, 
. 631-4435, ASAP 
CURATORIAL ASSISTANT wanted tor Snite Mus~um of Art. Work study is available. 10-15 hrs/wk for 2000-01 school year. Responslbllities include scheduling tours and entering computer info. Fine arts major with knowledge ot FileMaker Pro and design programs preferred, but not necessary. 
Call curator of education Shannon Masterson at 631-4435 lor more into. 
FOR RENT 
FOR RENT FOR FALL SEMESTER 4 bedroom, 2 full baths, washer & dryer, basement with hot tub, new furnace, security system. Call for a showing 277-0636 
ITS NOT TOO LA TE A newly remodeled 5 bedroom house is still available to rent for the fall semester. 2 full baths, washer & dryer, huge rec room, security sys-tern. Call now to see. 2TT-0636 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 5-bed­room, $1000/month. 2) 4-bedroom, $900/month. 3) 3-bedroom, $700, can Bill at 675-0776. We'll make almost any changes to the houses. 
Large clean 2+ bedroom with base­ment and garage. Top floor of very clean duplex near ND. Ideal for sin• gle graduate student wanting space and convenience. $600/mo plus utilities, deposit 674-1670. 
1721 Rerick 3 Bedroom, Family room with Fireplace. Fenced Backyard, CIA Gas Heat. Across From Park, Very Sale Neighborhood $995/mo. 12 mo. lease Call 232-4527 Close to Campus 219-340-1644 616-683-5038 Look! New Home for Rent 3/4 Bedroom 3 Bath, Cathedral Ceilings,Fireplace,Refrig,Range,Dis p,Dish,Washer & Dryer.Gas heat/ CIA, 2-car garage.Family room,Close to Campus. 616-683-5038 219-232-4527 219·340-1844 
2 bedroom, 2 bath apartment for lease during summer session. Close to campus. washer/dryer. Call Erin 4-4238 ii interested. 
N.D.·ST MARYS GRADUATION RENTAL, 4 BED­ROOM HOME, ARLINGTON HEIGHTS, 2 Ml FROM CAMPUS, RENT FOR WEEKEND. 219-273­
0025 

NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR GOOD AREA NORTH 2773097 
Fon SALE 

'91 RED VW JETTA: NEW TIRES, BELTS, RADIATOR, CLUTCH. EXCELLENT CONDITION -NO RUST· GREAT MILEAGE -VERY SHARP CALL 219-2TT-9683 AFTER 6PM. $3750 
Hall stack amp, effects pedal, 12· string guitar for sale. Call Chns tor details x1840. 
GET THE HELL OUT OF HERE! Mexico. the Carribbean or Jamaica $250 round trip. Other wortdwide destinations cheap. Book tickets online www.airtech.com or 1 800 575-TECH. 
4 'CREED' TIX, APRIL 1, FT WAYNE X2345 
Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. New. never used, still in elastic. $235 219-862-2082 
PERSONAL 
FULL COLOR Gopying Printing 
Scanning THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Call 631-COPY 
GAY? FRIEND or FAMILY of some­one who is? You're welcome to Join others on Retreat March 31-April 1. Call Tom @ 1-4112 or Alyssa@ 4-3194 for details. 
Are you on the list? 
Pull out your grass skirts and get ready to shake your coconuts ­Crush 2000. 
We're not players .... we just CRUSH a lot'! Lewis Crush 2000 
Clay seems awlully eager to see shots against Harris ... maybe we should start taking shots at Clay? 
But Jim is such an easier target ... 
April Fools' Day should be a national holiday. 
-The SinNott 
Its not showgirl, its SHOEgirl 
Its not Wapee: it's Wappy (aka fat trapper) 
Abbyland, Queen C. Tisch: DUDEII! From, Der Sepp 
Lauren. i need somewhere to dip my mustard ... 
E·Dogg, I LOVE you'!! 
Kelly, i miss you ... you know who. 
90210 shall be back Friday, only 5 more shows... Val, Brandon, and Andrea return. Brenda??? nobody knows... the wedding of the century, May 17. 
Amanda. you're beautiful. 

Friday, March 31, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
NIT 
Crispin shines in Penn State's consolation win 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 

J(w Crispin madP an uncontestr~d layup wilh two seconds left and intcr­CPptcd 1Jami1m Wilkins' inbounds pass to l1•ad P<'nn Statr to a 7 4-72 victory over North Carolina Stat!' in the consolation gamP of tho National Invitation Tournammit mi Thursday night. 
After N.C. Stat.n's Kenny Inge tied it 72­72 nn a short jumpN with 13.6 Sf'conds 1111'!, Crispin calmly dribbled the ball up tlw court and drov,~ in for thP gamn-win­ning basket. 
CINEMARK rllEArnLS 
All Shti-.v!'. B~fm.:-<1 Pi\1 'U oo \-l O(i S1t1d..:.nL•JC'biltJrcti!Si.:niur, iri.so Atluh 
S1,,r1.:1, Surrnu11<l Sut!!lll in ,ill Th~•,ur,:s 
Amedc~o Beauty  R  
1:30 '1 15 7 ,o 9·:50  
Drowriing Mo-na  PG-13  
12 45 7J6  
Erin Br-oekovlch  R  5S  
1:00 350 7"10  ~000  
Final Destination  A  ss  
12:50 ~~-10 ~:20 7:50 10.15  
H11re On Earth  PG•U  
12·55 3:15 5 3:5 8 00 iO 20  
High Fidell";  R  SS-New  
12s 4.to 7·30 :10.10  
Mission To M a!'"s  PG  
1 15 4 05 1-15 10:00  
My Dog Skip  PG  
1 :05  3:20  5 35 7 45  9:55  
Ninth Gate  R  
3 00 9:55  
Price of Glory  PG· 13  
1 .20 4 00 7·05 9:-45  
Return to Me  PG  

,pec1al '1193k PfWll'W Sat ,111 _s~.and 5a8 Ninth Gate kif FREE! 
Road to El Dorado PG 
1:10 315 5:15 7:25 9:30 
Romeo Must Die R 
1.35 4:20 7·20 10·10 
Skulls PG-13 SS-New 
1:10 3-45 700 9:40 
The Whole Nine Yards R 
12:45 3-05 5·30 7:55 10:20 
Whatever It Takes PG-13 
12:50 3.05 5:25 7:40 10:05 
!OO,m flMIS on,.r rzy~ OU Al)VAN(! fltr!T SAits m,fllt.iP A«ISmtt tHO MIS. NO ~'MS 
Crispin, who finished with 14 points, then intercepled Wilkins' long pass to seal the victory for the Nittany Lions (19­16). The game preceded the NIT Jina! between Notre Dame and Wake Forest at Madison Squarn Garden. 
.larrett Stephens addP-d 28 points on 11-of~ 18 shooting for Penn State. which boat I\.C. State for just th<) third time in 17 meetings. 
Wilkins-led N.C. Stat!' 120-14) with 21 points, and Inge added 18 points and nine rebounds. 
N.C. Strite went on a 15-6 nm early in the second halfto lead 56-45 wiLh 12;13 left, highlightnd by Inge's dnnk. 
The Nittany Lions couldn't get the lead under nine until Crispin's 3-pointer with 
8:31 !ell made it 62-56. Then th!' Nittanv Lions. who losl to Nolrn Dame in lh~1 semifinals, slowly chipped at the lead. 
N.C. State's biggest lead of the first half was 19-10 with 12;46 remaining on Clifford Crawford's layup. Pnnn State went on a 9-0 run, keyed by two baskets by Stephens to tie it at 19-19. 
The Wolf'par,k took leads as large as five points, but tbe Nittany Lious came back to lead 29-27 on Crispin's 3-pointer with 3:57 lelt 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used books t>ought and sold -25 Categories of Books -25.000 Hardback and Pap,,rback books in stock -Out-o . Print search service: $2.00 
-Appraisals large and small 
OPEN NOON TO SIX TUESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY 1027 E. WAYNE SOUTH BEND, IN 46618 (219) 232-8444 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Woods decides to return for senior year at Arizona 
Associated Press 

TUCSON, Ariz. 
Admitting that he was torn in both dircclions, Arizona's 7-foot-1 center l,oren Woods announced Thursday that he would not leaye school for the NBA and would return for his senior season. 
"By me coming back, I'll definitely be a better player," Woods sa.id, "but I think I'll also be a better person. By me grow­ing up arid maturing in a year, it will be a huge difference than if I would hmm gone to that liwel this year -emotionally, handling things on and off the court. I'll definitely be more mature after another vear." 
• Woods' decision means that all seven players who played regularly for the Wildcats will return from a team that shanid the Pac-10 championship and was the i'io_ 1 seed in the West in thf' NCAA tournament. 
"If we're not preseason No. 1, then there's something wrong with the polls," said Woods' teammate, Hichard Jefferson, who briefly toyed with the idea of turning pro but decided to return next season. 
ln addition to the returning players from this season, Arizona will have the services of tough power forward Eugene Edgerso.n, who sat out a year to get his teaching degree, as well as whatever freshmen recruits coach Lute Olson can get. 
Woods led the Wildcats in scoring at 
15.6 points per game, and was one of the most prolific shot blockers in the country. He tied an NCAA record with 14 blocks against Oregon. But he missed the final seven games because of a compressed disc in his lower back. The injury would have prevented him from participating in any full-scale tryouts for NBA teams. 
1-fo said he exper,ts a complete recovery by next season. 
Woods kept his decision a mystery throughout his long statement during a news conference at McKale Center, until the very end. When he announced it, sev­f'ral tp,ammates and friends cheered and applauded. 
Woods insisted he didn't make up his mind until about 40 minutes before the news conference, even though Olson said earlier this week that he thought the big center would be coming back. 
Woods said people close to the Arizona program urged him to return because the team could have a shut at the NCAA championship. while others not dose to tho program said he should IP-ave and go for the money. 
"All the people who knmv mo pPrsonal­ly have been saying just to follow what you feel in your heart,'' Woods said. "Sometimes I feel like I should stay, sometimes I feel like I should go. So I don't know about taking that advice, because my heart has been torn in two different places -the love tor the game playing against the best competition by going to the NBA or the love for the University of Arizona just for letting me be myself." 
Woods said he talked with several NBA general managers and said all told him that while he would be one of the top picks, there were questions about his strength and he wouldn't be expected to make a big impact right away. Woods said strength will still be a problem after next season, but he plans to work on that as much as possible until then. 
tlie 



Notre Dame·s Student Art & Literary Magazine 
Is now accepting submissions of poetry, short fiction, and visual art for its year-end issue Deadline for submissions is VVednesday, April 5th 
Submit written work to any one of the following: 
the "Juggler" Box in the English office (356 O'Shag) the secretaries at the Office of MultiCultural Student Affairs (210 LaFortune). electronically to juggler@nd.edu 
Art submissions should be directed to Sarah Stransky (stronsky.3@nd.edu). or can be placed in the "Juggler" box outside the Scholastic office in the basement of South Dining Hall 
Questions? Contact 
Kara Zuaro kzuaro@nd.edu Zac Kulsrud zkulsrud@nd.ed_u Charlyn Henderson chenders@nd.edu 
or check out more info at www.nd.edu/-juggler 
uggle 
-
page 22 
Friday, March 31, 2000 


The Observer . SPORTS 

winning rceord permeated the atmosph1m\. 
Senior point guard Jimmy Dillon providnd perhaps the best example orthat gritty tf'nacity. I le played the nntire year on bum ankles, and then contributed five assists in 31 minutris of play Thursday af'ter spraining his ankle in the semifinals. 
Ilis fire gave the Irish a major spark, one that left Doherty near tc•ars at the r1)alization Dillon had played his liL'>t game. 
"His toughness," Ooherty said beforr~ pausing. "\,\/hen I got tlrn job I wasn't sure if he was going to be able to play. We had to rnal­ly monitor him in practice because he would go and he wouldn't tell me he ww, hurting. 
"Witlmul Jimmy Dillon, we don't win 22 ball games. His toughrrnss, his energy, his leader­ship. his daring, which at times could drivr, you crazy but at timfls it won basketball games. I lo har­nessed th(lt and turned out to be a pretty darn good rollt•ge point guard. It's tough peeling that jer­sey off for tlu1 last time." 
Dillon, emotional at donning a Notre Dame jersey for tho last time, rnr:ognimd the special qual­ity of this team. 
'Tm just pt'(jwJ to be around such a selm:t group of guys," Dillon said. "Throughout tho whole yoar, we knew we had so1m~tliing special. We knew we can compete with anybody." 
This year's Irish wouldn't have gotten to 22 victories without the strong team chemistry thny had. 
"Those guys like each other," Doherty said. "They like basket­ball. We've had several optional shooting workouts over the last fow weeks and everyone showed up." 
While some college b,L'>ketball teams today are better known for their off-court exploits from theft to assault to accepting money from NBA ag1mts, Notre Dame was different. 
The Irish are wcogniwd as a friendly bunch of guys happy to sign a kid's T-shirt nwm al't<1r a tough loss. 
NEED AJOB FOR NEXT YEAR? 
Student Activities is now hiring for the 2000-2001 academic year. Positions available: 
Ballroom Monitors Building Set Up Crew DeBartolo Event Manager Information Desk LaFortune Building Managers Office Assistants ND Cake Service ND Express Sound Technicians Stepan Center Managers 24 Hour Lounge Monitors 
Applications available at 315 LaFortune .or on-line at uuuuuu.nd.edu/ ~sao/forms. 
Deadline extended to April 7. 
NEED CASH? 

NEW DONORS EARN $20 TODAY 
MENTION THIS AD FOR A $5.00 BONUS 
Up to $145.00 a month in 2-4 hours a week 
"The thing about this team is that we never quit," sophomore forward David Graves said. "We were down 16, 18 and we came back and brought it to five. A couple shots here and there it's a dillerent ball game but, that's the way it goes. We are happy about this year." 
This year's 22-15 season came on the heels of a losing record. A squad that gave away the close games with a reputation for being "soft" turned into a team 

that fought for every rebound, every loose ball. every basket. 
"There were a lot of times last year when we really didn't play that tough and we got in close games and ended up losing," sophomore All-American Troy Murphy said. "We were soft. We didn't work hard. We dogged it. Coach Doherty really changed the way we play and that result­ed in a successful vear." 

Much of the toughness came in 
-
at'Doherty"s urging. When he first came to Notre Dame a sea­son ago, he was disappointed by the team's effort level in work­outs and he told ihem so. 
"I said. that's why you guys haven't won," Doherty said. "You're soft. I've ripped them every time I've had the opportu­nity lo when they played soft. Now I think when you w.atch this team. they play pretty hard, they're pretty physical, they go after loose balls and that's excit­
ing." 

Doherty ensured that the Irish were ready to play -i 00 percent every time tip-off rolled around. 
"I think Coach Doherty brought us a lot of energy and a lot of intensity to the program and the players," freshman guard Matt Carroll said. ''!!e's instilled in us a lot of confidence., and I think it carries over onto the court." 
Aside from Doherty's influence, the team's determination to ink a 
Even opposing coaches noticed thHir character, particularly as they remainnd at courtsidc throughout Wake Forest's rnle­bration ceremony. 
"As a show of respect to our toam. they watched our team get the trophies and thr, champi­onships and wt the nets and all that kind of thing,'' Wake I•orest coach Davo Odom said. "It did not go umioticed by me, by my players and it did not gr, unno­ticed by our university. It's what college basketball should be." 
Back in October, nobody pre­dicted the Irish as a group that would win 22 games. 
"I couldn't have imagined this season in my wildest dreams, 
ff 

Murphy said. 
It won't be so far-fetr.hcd to visualizn Not.re Dame a.-; an NCM-tournamcnt bound team come next season. The Irish lose Dillon and reserve seniors Todd Palmer and Skylard Owens. But with Doherty and the core of the squad returning, they will hope to maintain and perhaps even improve the tenacity and strong team chemistry. If tlmy manage to attain those goals. Matt's Outrageous Bunch will be out in force at the JACC to support the Irish on the road to the top 25 for thP first time in years. 
"I think we have all the talent in the world," Graves said. "I think we have all the ability in the world, and with the addition of Hyan [HumphrnyJ, wrfre only going to be better." 
The uiews expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsemer. 



SERA CARE PLASMA 
234-6010 515 LINCOLNWAYWEST 

Friday, March 31, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Selig envisons global league 
Associaced l're,s 
TOKYO 

An exhibition game in llavnna last year, opening day in Japan this season. So what's next for major lrague baseball? 
Maybe a regular-season series in Venezuela real soon Possibly a return trip to Cuba. 
Potentially ganH1s in plac1~s such as Australia ,rnd evrn Afrira farther into th<' futurn. 
And someday, perhaps a t,·up World Series. 
;\ lot of ideas are in the mix these days as baseball pushes its plan to go global. Certainly the success of the seasun-openiug, two-game set hetwerin the Chirago Cubs and New York Mets this week will help. 
"Win, lose or draw. I think it was something that base­ba11 111,eded," Mets first 

----~.:"",,...rc:E.--·•KE···•··N·"io···.· .:..

· __

l:Y..-:,V _:i_:,.: ..., 
RAC9U-ETBALL· TOURNAMEl~JtI?.tft 
. . . • -· . .· ' ..... ' ",_It~-­
SATURDAY & SUNDAY APRIL 8 & APRIL 9 
JOYCE CENTER 
Men's & Women's Divisions T-Shirts to all Participants Bring Your 0-wn. Racquet Balls Will be Provided Refreshments Will be Served 
Register in Advance at --Z?---~--= Deadline: Wednesday* April S $B.00 Fee 
A Salute to the Leaders of Tomorrow ­Air Fo ROTC Cadets 
College is a time for decision Choose to become a leader 
Smart move. The whole concept of Air Force ROTC revolves around the cultivation of leadership qualities. Whether you're about to start college or have already begun, it's time to make your decision, now. 
Making Leaders for the Air Force and Better Citizens for America 
Contact Captain Klubeck at 631-4676, or Klubeck.1@nd.edu 
"The World Cup is some­tMng that haf; bPen 
under consideration. The World Series would be what the word connotes -the world series." 
Bud Selig baseball commissioner 
baseman Todd Zcil<) said Thursday night. 
After getting a good reception in Caracas, there's a slight chance reg­ular-season games could be played in Venezuela next season. 
Also, there's talk about another exhibition in Cuba, like the one Bnltimore played last year. 
The upcoming Sydney Olympics have spurred speculation about trying to send two teams to Australia 
for an exhibition. 
Far-fetched? Could be. flut watching the Cubs and Mets play in Tokyo has made manv believe that baseball is growing fur beyond its North American borders. 
"I never thoughl would've seen this dav, opening day in Japan," Hall or Farner manager Tommy Lasordc1 said. 
And it could continue to spread internationally. Just drrn't ask Mark McGwire to make the trip -spurred by his opposition, the St. Louis Cardinals turned down tho tour tu Japan and the Cubs accepted. 
Commissioner Bud Selig wants to somedav see a baseball World Cup.· 
"The World Cup is some­thing that has been under consideration." he said. "The World Series would be what the word connotrs ­the world series." 
Daubach, Martinez give Red Sox edge over Twins 
Associated Press 

FORT MYERS, Fla. 
Brian Daubach homered twice and Pedro Martinez won his final spring training start as the Boston Red Sox beat the Minnesota Twins 6-5 on Thursday. 
Daubach's first home run gave Boston a 1-0 lead in the fourth inning. His second came in the fifth inning after DarrPn Lewis doubled, and put the Red Sox up 4-3. 
The Red Sox added two runs in the sixth when Jeff Frye tripled and scored on Donnie Sadler's single and Jose Offerman knocked in Scott Ilatteburg, who had walked. 
Martinrz pitched five innings, striking out six and allowing three runs, all in the fifth inning. Minnesota's Todd Walker hit his first home run of the spring after Marcus Jensen singled. Cristian Guzman followed \\ith a triple and came home on a single by Midre Cummings. 
Martinez finished the spring with a 4.59 ERA. 
Twins starter Eric Milton pitched six innings, allowing four runs on six hits. Carl Everett went 0-for-4 with two foul outs to drop his average to .188. 
Pirates 5, Phillies 2 
Kris Benson, slated to start Pittsburgh's second game of the season, pitched like an opening­dav starter as the Pirates beat the Philadelphia Phillies. 
Benson hurled six shutout innings, allowing three hits and striking out two. He ran his spring record to 3-0 and lowered his ERA to 2.16. 
His final spring start followed Jason Schmidt's outing Wednesday that lowered his ERA to 1.16, best in the Grapefruit League. 
Phillies starter Andy Ashby, who will pitch on opening day, will enter the regular season without having had a single out­ing like Benson or Schmidt. Ashby started for the Phillies on Thursday and allowed six hits and four runs, three earned, in six innings. His Florida ERA set­tled at 7.47. 
While fans may prefer springs like the ones put together by 
-

Schmidt and Benson, Ashby feels he's ready for the season to start. 
"I foe! like if I throw the way I've thrown the last couple times, we should be in pretty good shape," he said. 
Ashby didn't help his own cause when he fumbled a bunt by Benson in the third inning, lead­ing to an unearned run. 
(:had Hermanson was 2-for-4 with an RBI for the Pirates. Scott Sauerbeck pitched a scoreless ninth inning for his first spring save. Aramis llamiroz, Brian Giles, Jason Kendall and Mike Benjamin also drove in runs for Pittsburgh. 
The Pirates finished with a 3-1 spring record against the Phillies, just as they did last year. 
Pittsburgh plays two games in Jupiter against the Montreal Expos before starting the season at home against Houston on Monday. 
The Phillies left immediately after the game to fly to Las Vegas, where they will play the Colorado Rockies Thursday and the Chicago White Sox on Saturday afternoon. They play a final exhi­bition in Seattle on Sunday before opening in Phoenix against the Arizona Diamondbacks on Tuesday. 
Rangers 6, Tulsa 1 
Texas catcher Ivan Rodriguez was hit by a pitch on the right elbow during the Rangers win over Double-A Tulsa. 
Rodriguez, the 1999 American League MVP, was hit in the first inning by Chuck Smith. It was diagnosed as a bruise and he will be examined again by team doc­tors when the Rangers return home. 
The injury isn't believed to be serious, but it gave a scare to manager Johnny Oates. 
"I went upstairs to see him and when I came back I was still shaking," Oates said. 
Rick Helling pitched six innings and combined with three reliev­ers on a six-hitter. 
"It's as well as he's thrown all spring," Oates said. 
Helling will start the Rangers' second regular-season game against the Chicago White Sox. 
'Tm reaching a peak right now and I'm ready for my start Tuesday," Helling said. 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 31, 2000 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Agbayani sla01s Mets past Cubs 
Newcomer unseats 
Young emerged from the off before resuming the season
Associaced Press 

bullpen ~ located underneath Monday. the stands, near the dugout -The crowd was announced as
TOKYO 
to pitch the 11th after nine another sellout at 55,000, yet
The New York Mets are sure years in the minors. I-le retired once again it was relatively
glad they decided to take 
the first two batters, but Todd quiet. Games in Japan usuallyBenny Agbayani on this little 
Zeile singled, and walks to feature frenzied fans carrying
detour. 

Ordonez and Melvin Mora drums and horns -to lhe dis­
Agbayani, ticketed for the 
loaded thr bases. appointme nt of thf' Cubs and
minors in 10 days, lined a 
Agbayani batted for reliever Mets, they were discouragedpinch-hit grand slam in the 
Dennis Cook and connected for from such behavior bv local11th inning and the Mets beat the Mets' first pinch-slam since officials. · the Chicago Cubs 5-1 tonight 
Todd Hundley's on May 4. There was a dramatic
for a split of their season-open­
1995. In Japan. hits that end improvement, though, in the
ing series in Japan. 

the game in the bottom half of dirt on the mound and batter's'Tm glad he was here today, an inning are called "say­boxes. Players on both teamsthat's for sure," Mets manager 
onara" hits. Agbayani's blow complained about the foreign
Robby Valentine said. "Benny's did not qualify for that title, not soil after the Cubs' 5-3 win in 
a big boy, and baseball's a 
that it mattered to him or the Wednesday night's oprmer and, game that's not always fair." 
Mets. after a spirited effort by theIn a game featuring strange The Cubs stranded a pair of grounds crow. the problemssights -Rey Ordonez making runners in the ninth and left seemed solved. 
an error. and Cubs manager the bases loaded in the 10th Ordonez's streak of 101
Don Baylor not shaking hands 
when Cook (1-0) struck out straight games without an
with Valentine -perhaps the Henry Rodriguez. error. a major leagui:, record
most unexpected one at the Kyle Farnsworth threw the streak f'or shortstops, ended
Tokyo Dome was Agbayani hit­first pitch at 7:10 p.m. local when he charged in and over­ting the first slam of the 21st time -making it 5:10 a.m. ran Damon Buford's roller incenturv. 
EST in '.\/ew York and 4:10 a.m. the first inning. It was his firstAgbayani rerentJy was told CST in Chicago. While the Cubs error since last .lune 13 againsthe would be sent to Triple-A and Mets were playing for real, Bost.on. a span in which he
Norfolk on April 9, when 
a world away it was still spring cleanlv handled 418 chances.
G!Pndon Rusch is promot<;d to training. Back in the United The· three-time Gold Glove
be the !\lets' No. 5 starter. 
States, exhibitions were set for showed no ill effects. however,
Agbayani did not take the 
later in the day at places such later making a nifty play up thedemotion well. and asked for a as Vero Beach an'd Clearwater, middle on Sammy Sosa'strade. 
Fla., and Tucson, Ariz. grounder and taking part in
But the Mets. having room 
Baylor said the Cubs enjoyed two doublfl plays. The Mets
for an extra player, instead 
their weeklong stay, adding, "I turned six DPs in the serins.
took the Hawaiian-born 
think everyone in the locker But Zeile, the newcomer to
Agbayani to Japan. 

room is ready to go home." l\ew York's slick inlield. made
"I'm going to mah.e them What should the Mets do a wild throw to set up anmakP a tough decision," 
about their outlield situation? unearned run in the f1fth thatAgbayani said. 
Keep Agbayani, lose Payton made it 1-allAgbayani's two-out drive to Keep Payton, send Agbayani A pair of walks and a sa('.ri­
dead center field made it a dis­down lice by pitcher Hick Heed led toappointing major league debut Trade Rickey Henderson Hickey 1-Iendorson's sacrificf'for loser Danny Young (0-1 ). 
Both teams have three days 11y in the fifth. 
Gomez at shortstop 
to the Padres in June 19%.

Associated Press In his time in San Diego, 
Gomez was the starting
PEORIA, Ariz. 
shortstop on two first-place

As the San Diego Padres 
clubs -in 1996 and 1998.
broke camp Thursday, lhey Gomez actually started 11
did so with a new starting 
fewer games at shortstop laslshortstop. 
year than .Jackson. Rut that
Manager Bruce Bochy set­was only because he had car­tled a competition betwnen 
tilage problems in both
Damian Jackson and incum­
knees, which

bent Chris Gomez, "/ don't know what I can required 
arth rosr.opic
picking 

do. I thought I played 
surgery JuneJackson as 

well. He played 4.
the start<'r. "To be well, too." He was on 
the disabledfair, D.J. 
list .lune 4had a better 

Chris Gomez through .July
spring," 

fonner Padres shortstop 31 and never
Bochy said. 
fully recov-
Jackson, 
ered.
26, hit .308 {16-for-52), stole In 76 games. Gomez batt!~d
six bases and srorrd 18 runs. 
.252 with only one home runGomez, coming off a season and 15 RBIs.
marred by knee problems, 
Jackson got the opportunity
got off to a slow start as he 
to play regularly in his first
tested his knees. But he made 
major league season, but he
a good run at the job by bat­failed to secure the job withting . 333 with solid defense. 
erratic performance.
"Obviously, I'm disappoint­Flashy in the field and with
ed," Gomez said. "I don't 
good range, he also made 25know what I can do. I thought 
errors at shortstop. And a
I playrd well. I le played well, 
threat on the basPpaths (34too. I'm not going to root 
steals), he didn't get on baseagainst Damian or anything." 
enough (.224 batting average,Gomez now ber,omes San 105 strikeouts).
Diego's lone backup middle "My whole goal all winter
infielder. lie will spell and this spring has been to
Jackson and, less frequently, 
improve my focus." Jacksonsecond baseman Bret Boone. 
said. ''I've been very focused,
Gomez has played 78 
,rnd I haven't taken any playsgames at second base in the for granted. I'm excited to get
major leagues, mostly with 
the opportunity."
Detroit before he was tradPd 

-----;, ~otre _Da7ne Center
-'<••··-~for Ethics andReligiou.s· 

--Values in Business 
PRESENTS A MAJOR CONFERENCE. APRIL 3-4, 2000 BUSINESS, RELIGION AND SPIRITUALITY 
During April 3-4, 2000, the Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business will host a conference in the Center for Continuing Education at the University of"Notre Dame. The conference will be keynoted by Martin Mnrty, University of Chicago, and will include a number of distinguished speakers. 
All sessions to be held at the Center ror Continuing .Education, except where noted.. 
8:00 a.m. 
9:00 a.m.

-
10:15 a.m. 
10:30 a.m. 
12:30 p.m. 
1:45 p.m. 
3:00 p.m. 
3:30 p.m. 

NIONDAY, APRIL 3 
Continental Breakfast 
Session J: A Splrilluai Audit ofCorpora~e America 
Ian I. Mitroff 

Laura Nash  
Response Panel:  Jerome J. Crowley  
John T. Ryan, III  
Break  

Sesslo,. 2: So,ne Traditional Resourcesfor Splrltuall(Y 
Larry Cunninghwn Gerald F. Cavanagh, S.J. John Caron 
Amir Al-Islam 
Edwin Epstein 
Lunch: Morris Inn 
Session 3: Keynore Addre~TS 
Martin E. Marty 
Response Panel: 
Welcome by Father Malloy, C.S.C.• President, University ofNotre Daine 
Break 

FOR INFORMATION ABOUT THE CENTER AND REGISTRATION FOR THE CONFERENCE, PLEASE CONTACT: 
Deborah Coch Administrative Assistant 
3:45 p.m. 
5:30 p.m. 
6:00 p.m. 
7:30 p.m. 
8:00 a.m. 
9:00 a.rn. 
10:15 n.m. 
10:30 a.:rn. 
12:30 p.m. 
Session 4 ...-A Case Srudy.-The I--Tealrh Care Indus;ry 
Patricia Vandenberg, C.S.C. Panel Response: Peter J.. Giwnmalvo Mary Kathryn Grant John A. Gallagher 
Roger Klauer, M.D. Reception: Faculty Lounge,. College of Business Dinner: Atrium, College ofBusiness Music: ·Notre Dame Glee Club 
TUESDAY, APRIL 4 
Continental Breakiast 

Session 5: Ano~her Perspec,lve 
Marilou Eldred Panel Response: Break 

Se1s/on 6: Jl,fanngenreni Professors Speak 
Claudia McGeary/Don McNeill, C.S.C. Robert G. Kennedy James J_ McGee 
F. Byron Nahser Stephen J. Porth Bowen McCoy 
Lunch; Morris Inn 

Conference ends at conclusion of" lunch 
Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business Telephone: (219) 631-6072 
*For information on the speakers you may visit the Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business Web Site at www.nd.edu/-ethics/ 
Friday, March 3 1, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
NCAA MEN'S FINAL FOUR 
Officials clear Miller to play 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Florida officials cleared for­ward Mike Miller lo play in the Final Four after determining hr, made no improper contact with an agent who called him 45 times since last September. 
"Tl1is is not a major prob­lem," coach Billy Donovan said Thursday when the team arrived in Indianapolis. "There am no issues with Mike Miller, no issues eligibility-wise. He's going to play. To harp on it would take away from what this lPam has accomplished and what it's trying to do." 
In a story Thursday, The New York Times reported agent Andy Miller could have brokr,n laws in Tennessee and Florida by calling Miller and TennessP.e guard Tony Harris. 
Mike Miller acknowledged that the agent called him at least 45 times since Sept. 1 and that they had spoken at least 20 times. 
The agent, who is not related to the playnr, is not registered to practice as an agent in either state, which both have agent laws. 
"At least theoretically. this is a violation of Florida law," said 13ill Cervone, assistant state attorney in Florida. "Jt's some­thing that has to be looked into. So far, nothing has been brought to our attention." 
University police said they had received information about the case from the Florida compliance office and had assigned an investigator. 
Athletic director Jeremy Foley said the sophomore for­ward did nothing to compro­
misc his eligibility. "We're here to win a nation­
a.1 championship," Foley said, "not talk about agents." 
Still, agents have been a fre­quently discussed topic in Gain()sville over the past year. 
University police have tiled a sworn complaint against agent Tank Black in an unrelated case involving improper con­tact with former Gator football players. It was the aftermath of that case that !rd Florida to redouble its efforts in educat­ing players about agents. 
"I have not violated any NCM rules and my total focus is on getting ready to play North Carolina in the Final Four." Miller said. 
The news broke soon after Donovan lectured his players of the distractions awaiting them at the Final Four. 
BOOKSTORE 
1. 
Sorry if we shoot it all over you, but we don't like to dribble 

2. 
Stop the bus and let my roommate, Jack, off 

3. 
Just like in the Michigan game, if we each had another inch we'd.score 

4. 
5 guys who could score at will ... until Bridget's closed down 

5. 
DuLac Shakur 

6. 
We have Bill Kirk: show up drunk, we dare you 

7. 
I thought I was your snack pack 

8. 
We rode the short bus to school 

9. 
We'll go down in public 

10. 
Troy Murphy lives across the hall from us ... Don't make us 


go get him 
to 



Peterson peaks for Spartans in tourney 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

By his own admission, Morris Pderson was an immature, out­of-shape freshman when he enrolled at Michigan State. 
Pivc years later, he has helped lead the Spartans dose to their first NCM title since 1979. 
Peterson, finally stepping out from behind Mateen Cleaves to become a possible NBA lottery pick, has scored in double fig­ures in all four NCAA tourna­ment victories. HeOs averaging 
16.6 points and 6.1 rebounds this season. 
"Pete's been a main contribu­tor to this team all year long," forward Andrr Hutson said. "He's done so much for us." 
He'll t.ry to do even more Saturday when the Spartans (30-7) play Wisconsin (22-13) in the national semifinals. 
The 6-foot-7 forward used his great leaping ability to score 16 of his game-high 21 points in the second half of a comeback win over Syracuse in the Midwest regional semifinals. 
Two nights later, he scored 18 points in another comeback, this time against Iowa State. 
After the victory, the 22-year­old Peterson was told his grand­mother had died earlier in the day. He attended her funeral Thursday in Mississippi. 
"Everybody has really stuck with me," Peterson said. "That reallv shows how close we are." 
The Spartans show it on the court, too. 
On a play Peterson suggested during a timeout late in the Iowa State game, he scored on a soar­ing dunk off an alley-oop pass from Cleaves. The play made it clear Michigan State was going back to the Final Four. 
"I think Mateen said it best: This is Pete's team now," coach Tom Izzo said. "He's the one we look for to take the big shots and kind of carry this team." 
Things haven't always been this way. The Spartans had always 

s4,so All Shows Before 6 pn, •~dV~rlC~-ll~~et Sales Available ':J 6.. 
relied on Cleaves. But he was sidelined for the frrst two months of the season with a broken foot. 
The team needed Peterson to take over. And he did. 
He scored 31 points in an early game at North Carolina, 17 against Arizona, 18 against Kentucky and 16 in a win over Connecticut. 
"People think Morris turned his game up because I was out," Cleaves said. "But he was a great player before I was out." 
Many people helped Peterson turn his game around -includ­ing Peterson, himself. 
"He's the most fortunate play­er that I've ever been associated with, in how he came in and how he came out," Izzo said. "I think he's made great progress in all parts ofhL'i life." 
Peterson was a shooter -and little else -when he came out of Flint Northwestern High School. Spartans teammate A.J. Granger stuck him with the nickname "Shotgun" because aU he did was fire away. 
"A couple years later, when I broke my wrist, coach started calling me the 'Club' because the cast was so big," said Peterson, who scored just two points before breaking his finger and becoming a medical redshirt his freshman year. 
But wearing the cast finally forced Peterson to play a little defense. 
He's now one of the team's best defenders. 
"Coach used to ask me if there was anybody on campus I could defend," Peterson recalled. 
Still, the insults did little good. He continued to go his own way, and to skip classes. 
Peterson got a strong message when Izzo took the team to Hawaii for a tournament but left him behind. 
"I learned I wasn't going to do anything in basketball until I was doing well off the court," Peterson said. 
There are still a few rough spots, of course. The difference is that these days Peterson is quick to correct them. 
-


All Times for \far. 31-A pr. 2 Only 
Return to Me (PG-13) Digital 
SNEAK PREV!F.W 
7:()() PM. on Saturday 411 Only' Road to El Dorado (PG) Digital 
{ 12:00 2: IOJ 4:20 6JO 8:50 The Skulls (PG-13) Digital ' 11 :50] 4:J0 7:00 9:50 Price o[Glorv (PG-13) Digital 
11: IOI 1:45 6:45 9:20 High Fidelity (R) Digital
12 20] 5:()() 7:50 IO:~O 
Reyond the Mat (R) Digital [12.15 2.J0] 4:45 7:15 9:J0 All Ahout Mv Mother (PG-13) Digital {12:50 .1:IOJ 5JO 8:00 10:20 
Hereon Earth (PG-13) Digital [12:40 J:ll51 5:20 7:40 l(l:15 
....,__,..._... .....,.....
_ 

Saturday & Sunday Matinees in Brackets 
Whatever lt Takes (PG-13) Digital I12:30 2:50] 5:10 ?JO 9·55 
Erin Brockovich (R) Digital [2:00] 4:50 7:5'i I 0:45 6:50 9:40 
Romeo Must Die (R) Digital [UOJ 4:10 7:10 9:45 
[2:15 4:55 7:45 10:35 My Dog Skip (PG) Digital jl :451 4:00 f'inal DestinatiOll (R) Digital 
[2:40] 5:0'i 7:35 I0:(Xl Cider House Rules (PG-13) Digital
11 JK)j 3:50 6:40 9:25 
Mission To Mars (PG) Digital [1:15] 4:15 6:55* 9;35 (•NnSl111wS,1t.4/1) American Bcautv (R) Dib>ital 
[I :40] 4:411 7:20 1005 
SCOTTSDALE 6 ONLY $1 ~O ~t!~~~! ~J~:ry6/a; 
Scottsdale Mall • 299*6063 $1.50 All Evening Shows :J 6.. 
': Stuart Uttle (PG) lrL~ider (R) 
[ I :20] 4:00 6:40 9:(Xl II I 01 4:40 8:00 ': Sixth Sense (PG-l3J Sleepy Hollow (R) 
[I :i0] 420 7:10 9:50 [ 1 :40] 4J0 7:20 940 : Snow Falling on Cedar; (PG-Bl The Talented Mr. Ripley (R) 
[1:20] 4:10 7Jl(l 10:00 lI:00\ 4:SO 8:l'i 
page 26 
Friday, March 31, 2000 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

I  
I  
' '  - 
'  
I  
'  
'  
'  
'  
'  
'  
'  
:  .  
I  
I  
I  

Come be challenged by the message of 
Join us for all or
Fr. Jim Lies, CSC 
part of the day! 
Fr. Bill Wack, CSC See schedule in other No Greater Love ad in today's Observer. 
with special guests: Archbishop Oscar Rodriguez of Tegucigalpa, Honduras & 
Come be moved by the 
Amy Seamon, '00 
music and worship led by 
Paul Hillebrand & ND Celebration Choir
Personal Talks! 
with special guest: Dynamic Speakers! Danielle rich, '02 
Great Music! 
Workshops: Led by 
• 
Chandra Johnson • Fr. Rici{ _ 

• 
John & Sylvia Dillon • Heath&[;~ 

• 
Fr. Bill Seetch, CSC • Anni ahi 

• 
Paul Hillebrand • Fr. 

• 
Colleen Knight S 


·-····-, 

South 1ng Ha, , 10:00 am -5:30 pn1 
@it> "~~~<.)h 
. @MPU5

For more info: fsantoni@nd.edu '.of< ·•·•. 
tvllNISTRY 

Friday, March 31, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish prepare to avenge 1999 loss to Buckeyes 
ting up only one in the second. The they hav(' been working hard and By STEVE KEPPEL 
Irish have given up big second peri­preparing for Ohio State all week in Sports Wro1er 
ods in their last two losses. and practice. 
players hope to avoid any letdowns "Basically we have been working 
Tim Notre Dame men's lacrosse against Ohio State. on some fundamental things," team will finish off lht~ir three-game "I just think we have to ki>ep our Higgins said. "Everyone has been home stand this Saturday as it takes concentration," Higgins said. "We fired up all week to get another on Ohio State in a Great Western are playing good teams and we have shot to get back at them. It was dis­Lacrm;sc League contest. to r('alize that good teams are going appointing and embarrassing last 
The Irish lost a heartbreaker lo to make runs and we have to keep it year and everyone is so lired up to lhr BuckryP.s a year ago on a last just them making good plays and play this weekend." sRcond goal. not us making mistakes. If we do Ohio State is heading into this 
'"This is a huge game," said cap­this we will be fine." game with a 3-3 record and they tain Kevin Higgins. "Everyone With a win, the Irish would be in a are fresh off a 7-4 victory over remembers what it was like last good position lo win the league Vermont. The Buckeyes are lead by year to lose and how bad it felt." championship and get an automatic offensive leader Greg Zytkowski Tlw Irish am coming off a tough bid to the NCAA tournament. and goalie Mike Abeles, both pre­one-point loss to Hofstra in which After coming out tentative in the season all-Americans. The Irish are the play of both the offense and last few games the Irish need to going to need to come together as a defense was sporadic and inconsis­establish some of the offensive fire­team and play a full game to gain a tent. power that helped them knock off well-needed victory on Saturday and 
Notre Dame gave up sevPD points Penn State in the opi>ner. Facing a put them closer to clinching a tour­in the first half but rebounded, let-possible three-game losing streak, nament birth. 
=============--=--=-=-=-====================================================­
WOMEN'S TENNIS
Sacred Heart Seminary (219) 283-0048 sjc@Core.com 
Saint Mary's falls to Hope 8-1 
We are very happy to announce the opening of a new all­
blew us off the courts," she them to be."
denominational seminary in South Bend. Anyone who has a Observer Scaff Report 
said. One thing Stevenson wants
sincere call to ministry is welcome to apply regardless of 
Most of the matches were to work on with his team is gender or sexual orienctation. Those choosing the priest­The Saint Mary's tennis extremely close, but senior its quickness in doubles play. hood will be ordained in the Independent Catholic tradition team suffered an 8-1 loss to Becky Kremer was the only "We're not getting to the Hope College on Wednesday. Belle to pull out with a win. net in doubles," he said.
(not affiliated with the Roman Catholic Church) and those 
"We knew it was going to She took a 7-0 tiebreaker Stevenson is looking for­
choosing to become a minister will be ordained in the church 
be a tough match to start after a 7-6 first set. She won ward to facing Hope again in 
they choose. Or they may choose to be ordained in the St. 
with," said Coach Dee the second set 6-1. the conference tournament. 
John's Center, a local all-denominational Church. Classes will Stevenson. Hope has won "I think we played tough The Belle's tennis team is on be taken in the local seminary, local colleges and universities, eight consecutive Michigan but we weren't as prepared the road this weekend, at Intercollegiate Athletic as we should have been," Spring Arbor College on
and our Internet seminary. The preparation time will vary 
Association titles. Kremer said. "They were a Saturday and at Kalamazoo
according to one's education and experience 
"It wasn't like they just lot better than we expected College on Sunday. 
NOTRE DAME LACROSSE and ANTHONY TRAVEL 
Present 



-

#15 NOTRE DAME vs. OHIO STATE 
Saturday, April 1-3:30pm@Moose Krause Stadium 
To enter, sign up at the entrance gate!
fig:, .. 

The BEST REPRESENTED DORM will receive: 
. 
2 FREE DOMESTIC TICKETS ON UNITED AIRLINES 

. 
GIFT CERTIFICATES TO DAMON'S and BRUNO'S 

. 
2 ADIDAS GIFT BAGS WITH ATHLETIC APPAREL 50 ADIDAS/NOTRE DAME LACROSSE T-SHIRTS 


. 

. 25 NOTRE DAME LACROSSE POSTERS 
Sponsored by: 
~Anthonylla~ef 
page 28 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, Mach 31, 2000 
BASEBALL 
Irish split two, head to Connecticut for triple header 
By NOAH AMST ADTER 
Sports Writer 
Preparing for their second weekend of Big East play, the Irish haseball team played two home games this week, defeating Siena Heights University Thursday after falling to the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee on Wednesday. 
Thursday's game was a success for the lrish both on the mound and at the plate. Four pitchers combined to allow only five hits. 
Freshman Matt Laird !:itarted for the first timP since losing a tough game against Villanova last weekend. 
Laird allowed just one hit in three innings. facing the minimum of nine batters. Junior !\like Carlin followed Laird with three innings before yielding the mound to stmior Tom O'llagan, who pitched for the first time since 1998 aftP.r sitting out last season. Senior clos­er John Corbin pitched the ninth for the Irish. 
"It was nicf' to see Matt Laird go out there and pitch well." said head coach Paul Mainieri. "This is the time of year that begins to test the depth of your pit;;hing staff. Tom O'Hagan's going to get a lot of <'lrnnres to pitch over the next few weeks." 
l\iine players combined for 14 hits to lead the Irish offPnse. Sophomore lef't fielder Matt Strickroth and senior first baseman Jeff Pelker both knocked out two doubles. Freshman right fielder Brian Stavisky extended his hitting streak to 13 games with a leadoff single in the third inning. 
"Today was certainly encouraging, but we hav!'n't really been consistent with our offensP like we need to be," said Mainieri. "We need to sPe every­body contributing with a couple of guys having a big day for us." 
Thursday's successf'ul victory fol­lowed a disappointing loss on Wednesday, as Wisconsin-Milwaukee toppled the Irish 14•3. 
UWM senior right hander Chad Sadowski pitched five strong innings anu his offense supported him with 20 hits. 
f'reshman right hander .J.P. Gagne started for tlrn Irish. giving up three run·s on six hits over four innings, adding live strikeouts. Sophomore Matt BuchmP.iP.r followP.d Gagmi, yiP.lding four runs in 2 2/3 innings to take the loss. 
"Gagne pitched nut of some jams and showed a lot of poise out there," said Mainieri, "Buchmeier has ber.n vnrv consistent during his career for us." · 
Senior left l'icldur t\.latl Nussbaum was the only Irish player to register multiple hits in tho game. as he rncord­ed two hits in four at-bats. 
"You've got to tip your hat to Wisconsin-Milwaukee." said Mainieri. "The were an NCM tfrnm last year. and actually beat the No. 1 tPam in the nation in their first game." · 
This weekend, the Irish head to Storrs, Conn., to take on the Huskins of Connecticut. The teams play a doubln~ header on Saturday, followed by a lhirct game on Sunday al'ternoon. 
Junior Aaron lleilman and senior Scott Cavey starl for the Irish on Saturday. The two right-handers are a combined 7-1 this season. Gagne will take the mound for the finaln on Sunday. 
"They have excellent athletes and a very good team," said Mainieri, "If we go out there and do the little things I f1rnl confident that we'll go out there and have a very successful weekend." 
J\ll three games will be broadcast on 1480 AM as well as on tho lntPrnet at 
ww1c. und. com. 


STOP THE CLOCKS! .. MIDNIGHT MADNESS IS FINALLY HERE! * Come join students, staff, and faculty at Saint Mary's first Midnigh Madness TONIGHT from 10 p.m. -2 a.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. *Cheer on Winter intramural basketball, soccer, and volleyball teams in their championship games, then participate in interclass competitions of tug of war, musical chairs, obstacle courses, foul shot competition, eating contests, and much, much more! *Register to win over 75 prizes, including a GRAND PRIZE of a weekend trip for two to Chicago, including round trip transportation, a two night stay at the Ritz, a Saturday dinner at the John Hancock Signature Room, $50.00 for Sunday brunch, and a $1000 shopping spree. Join us and be among the maddest ofthe mad! Only Saint Mary's students are eligible to participate in games and to win prizes. Participants MUST be in Angela Athletic Facility by 11 p.m. to be eligible tor games and prizes. Midnight Madness is brought to you by the Student Athlete Advisory Committee with the help of Class Boards, Board of Governance, and planning committees.  


I 
-I 
I 
I I 
I 
'I 
' 
I 
. 
-

I 
I 
I I I I I I 
I 
i 
' 
' 

.. --------- 
page 30  The Observer . SPORTS  Friday, March 31, 2000  

TRACK 
Irish work toward NCAA championship with home meet 
By BRIAN BURKE 

Spores Wmer 
Last weekend the Irish m<'n's and women's track teams enjoyed more than just the nice weather out Wf'st, earning sevt>n NCAA qualifying standards, including one automatic. at the Arizona State and Standard Invitationals. 
This Saturdav, with the Notre Dame • men and women back in northern Indiana to host Butler, \.liami (OIi) and Western Michigan for a scoring meet. the focus will be less on notching NCAA bids and more on preparation. 
"We certainly want to win the meet," head coach Joe Piane said. "It's different thin~s for different people. We're running a lot of guys at different events, for some it's a tune up, for some it's the last race for a few weeks." 
A big difference between this week and last will be the less than ideal condi­
tions outdoors making it 
difficult for runners to run 
their fastest times. 
"It probably won't hap­pen," said Pianc of Notrfl Dame's prospects for morn NCAA qualifications this weekend. 
Some of the top runners for the Irish will cornpflte in events other than their usual events. Antonio Arce will compete in the 3,000­mcter steeplechase. Marshaun West will race in tlrn 400-meter run and Chris Cochran will run in the 100-meter dash. 
"Most of _us are running a lot or events, which is not conducive to top times. We're looking to work on our 4xl00 !meter relay), especially the passes, maybe break the school record th is weekend," Cochran said. 
One potential NCAA quali­fier this weekend could be Jennifer Engelhardt in the women·s high jump, if the wind cooperates. Engel­
hardt won the high jump at Arizona Statn last weekend and is one of the top high jumpers in tho country. 
"I think it's rnally oarly, a transition from indoor," Engelhardt said. "It's def'i­nitely going to be cold ... that will take somo gotting used to, but everyone has to r.ompelfi in it." 
\IVhilc it may appear that this Wllekeud is almost a competitive pr1:1r.tice, it is the only scoring meet before the Big East Championships (also a scoring meet). 
The Irish home this meet will prepare them l'or that format. 
"We want to prepare for tho Big East where we run a lot of races over a few days," assistant coach John Millar said. "We want to have people run a race and rorne bac-k and run another 45 minutes later." 
Notrn Dame, Butler, Miami (011), and Western Mir,higan start it off Saturday at 10 a.m. at Moose Krause Stadium. 

Nike ends contract with Brown 
Associa1ed Press 
PROVIDENCE, R.I 

Nike is terminating its con­tract to provide hockey equip­ment to Brown University, fearing the school might try to make it comply with guidelines of a group pushing for better working conditions in clothing factories. 
Nike said it objects to being held to the code of conduct outlined by the Workers Rights Consortium, of which Brown was a founding member,
I 
' because the company dis­
I 
I ' agrees with the group's I approach.
I 
"The WRC is based on a

( 
'gotcha' monitoring tech­
! 
I nique," Simon Pestridge, I I Nike's labor practices manag­I er, said.
' 
I 
I He said they go to factories I and report on what they find, rather than work with facto­
f -ries to effect change. 
r 
I 
lie said the WRC's definition of a "living wage" is too vague. 
"There is no way we can commit to a document that is not finished," Pestridge said. 
Brown notified Nike in late January that it wanted to renegotiate its contract with the Beaverton, Ore., company, to require it to comply with Brown's code of conduct. 
Brown's code is not unlike Nike's, Vada tvlanager, Nike's director of global issues man­agement, said. 
But because the school is a founding member of the WHC, Nike's lawvers said the school could try· and impose the WHC's code on Nike, Manager said. 
Brown was the first school involved with the WHC to ask for a renegotiation of its con­tract with Nike, Manager said. 
Brown and Nike were in the middle of a three-year con­tract, in which Nike provided the men's and women's hockey 
t I 
.., 

teams with skates, gloves, pads, and other goods under the Nike and Bauer labels. Nike has no other contracts with Brown, Manager said. 
Brown spokesman Mark Nickel could not be reached for comment. Sports informa­tion director Christopher Humm declined comment. 
"They market mainly to col­lege-aged kids ... and if Nike pulled out from Brown they'd get a lot of criticism," Maria Hoeper of the WRC said. 
Notre Dame Men's Water Polo 
Spring Invitational 

"'aturday: 10:15 4:30 unday: 9:00 
#7 ND vs. ND Alumni 
#7 ND vs. #5 Purdue 
#7 ND vs. #21 Miami(OH) 
SUMMER TOUR GUIDES 
The Admissions office needs tour guides who can work between May 22nd-August 11th (and during the Notre Dame Summer Sessions). 
Full-time and part-time positions available. Applications: Room 220 Main Building or by e-mail at Joyce.2@nd.edu 
Deadline for applying: April 21st 
Friday, March 31, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 31 
SOFTBALL 
Irish look to give Miller 300th win at Notre Dame 

The Irish, seen here during their split double-header with the Boilermakers of Purdue look to give head coach Liz Miller her 300th win today. 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
Spom Writer 

Notre Dame softball looks to give head coach Liz Miller her 300th win with the Irish as they open conference play with a doubleheader against Connecticut today. 
Miller, now in her eighth season at Notre Dame and currently 298-143 for lhe Irish, has led Notre r>ame soft­ball to a 23-8 record, the best in the program's 12-year history, with its next best year a 21-9 season in 1995. 
"The three years I've played for her shp,'s been very p1>rsonable. She cams about stuff on and off the !fold," said junior Melanie Alkire, "She's a good motivator and she puts a lot of emo­tion into everything. She's good at making sure we're giving 110 percent all the time and doesn't accept any­thing less. She coaches every game for what it's worth." 
The No. 21 Irish are coming off a 5­2 victory over Eastern Michigan on Wi>dnesday. 
Notre Dame's Jennifer Kriec tripled to right field before scoring on an infield single by Alkire to give the Irish thP lead in the third. 
But the Eagles fought back in the fourth with two singles and a double to drive in two runs for the 2-1 lead. 
freshman Lisa Mattison kicked off the Irish half of the fourth with an HBI double while Alkire drove in two runs with a single. Sophomore Jarrah Myers singled to drive in the final Irish run. Pitcher Jennifer Sharron earned the win, upping upped her record to 12-3. 
Notre Dame, chosen to finish first in the Big East preseason poll, hopes to grab its first two conference wins against Connecticut (15-9). 
The Irish have a 10-5 all-time record against the Huskies, earning three wins last year, including a 4-1 victorv in ttrn conference tournamnnt. But Connecticut's all-Big East first team shortstop Jessica Ya.nosy will look to put a stop to Not.re Dame offense. 
"She's not just out thMe for hersPlf," Alkire said of Miller's possible 300th win. "She wants to win for us, because everyone else wants to win." 
Notre Dame will begin doubleheader play at 4 p.m. today at Ivy Field against Connecticut. 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Dasso ready to continue Irish winning streak 
By KEVIN BERCHOU Spores Writer 
Miclwlle Dasso has never felt quite like this brf'ore. 
For the first time in lrnr prolif­ic Notrn Damr. tennis career, this year's captain is confident that lwr squad is capable of bat­tling the best and coming out on top. 
"I'm really pretty excited 
about this year," Dasso said. "I think we can match up with any­one in the country. It's definitely the best team I've been a part 
0 f. " 

Dasso's beliefs have only been verified in recent weeks as things keep going right for the Irish. 
A recent streak of wins has catapulted Dasso's squad into the nation's elite, but she is con­fident the Irish can improve upon their No. 14 ranking. 
"We just need to take it one match at a time," she said. "With the way we're playing, I think we can really surprise some people." 
The Irish added validity to their leader's beliefs in trounc­ing the University of Michigan Wolverines Wednesday. 
Notre Dame won five of the six singles matches, led by Dasso's 6-1, 3-6, 6-2 triumph over 

HOP TO IT! 
Make the move to Williamsburgon the Lake 
.........f)
. I , 

c;_: ~ April ss,Move You In Special 
Eges-ceptional one and two bcdraom floor pl 
c~/J:,
<7:i/a; $99 Security Deposit '·-.:., Convienl Location 
1}<11 Large pcls welcome 
Mini and vertical blinds included <.:i~A las Heat Included ,;·, ·Crcdil,Juidclincs apply 
,§L-.,-1(~-------f!E!, Williamsburg 1'.=) -o eL e 
EUUAL Hou,,NG
OPPORTUNITY 
256-0237 Located on Main Street; just south of Catelpa 
Michigan's Brooke Hart. Dasso, the No. 16 singles player in the country, could very well move up in the next rankings. 
Kelly Zalinski, Nina Vaughan, Lindsey Green and Katie Cunha all scored impressive straight­sets victories, while sophomore Becky Varnum suffered the only defeat. 
"Everyone contributed." Dasso said. "I think we all came out there with the right attitude and did a great job." 
With the match already clinched heading into doubles play, the Irish continued to bat­ter the already dazed Wolverines. Dasso and Varnum blasted Michigan's Szandra Fuzesi and Danielle Lund in No. 1 doubles, while the pairings of Green and Zalinski and Guy and Sarah Scaringe won at No. 2 and No. 3 doubles respectively. 
"Kelly and Lindsey have been awesome," Dasso said. "They're just playing phenomenal tennis." 
The doubles success was a welcome change for the Irish. who have struggled in pairs play recently. 
Notre Dame will have little time to rest on its laurels. as it jumps right back into dual match play with a tough region­al match against the Wisconsin Badgers. 
The Badgers have struggled of late and are just 6-9 on the sea­son. With the Top 20 Irish play­ing the No. 66 team in the coun­try, one might anticipate a mis­match. But Dasso doesn't. 
"We'll have to play our game," she .said. "If we play the way we're capable of, we'll win, but we can't be overconfident." 
The Badgers are not particu­larly strong in singles but do boast the potent doubles tandem of April Gabler and Lara Voginov. 
The Irish have won eight of the team's last 13 meetings, including the last three. .._. 
, 
. 


For Men: NO cheerleadmi6 4/7 4{10, 4!11 Clinics: 4/4, 4/5, 41s' Clo;ed to Public Tryouts: April 13 &ril 14 Open to All 6 p.m. eprecbaun Tryout Ap 
April 3, 2000 Joyce Center 
5:00 p.m. Gym 2 
. background required. 
--·  -·  ·­ - - ·­ - - - - - - - - -·-·­·-­ -·-------------·­ ----·---­ 
page 32  The Observer . SPORTS  Friday, March 31, 2()0()  
MEN'S TENNIS  

Irish face No. IO Longhorn squad in tough road trip 
By RACHEL BIBER 
Srorrs Writer 

Things just aren't getting nasi­
f'r for tlw Irish. 

ThP :mth-rankPd Notri; [)ame 
men's tennis team hits the road 
again this w,wkeml lO travel to 
Austin. Texas. to take on the 
10th-ranked Texas Longhorns. 
Last wcek<!nd. the Irish 
droppt>d two road matrhes, to 
28th-ranked !\orth Carolina and 
lifth-ranked Duke. and fell to lJ-7 
on tho s!'ason. 

''This will bl' the sPvnnth straight Top-25 tPam ,v<''ve played," Irish head roach Bob Bayliss said. "So certainly this is a strntch of matchPs that has dial\1cnged us. and we've been pretty dosP to a brPakthrough ... so I think we're due to win one or thest>, and rnavbe this will be theonP." ­
The match-up with the Longhorns marks tlrn third timP in thP last fivP contests that the lrisb have faced a Top-10 team. TPxas has beaten Notn• Dame in thrir last seven meetings. but its margin ol' victory has been s.lim. Tlw Longhorns haVl' won each of the last four games 4-3. 
"In the last four vears we have played Texas, we ·have lost 4-3 matches that have usually come right down to the wire," Bayliss said. "I am sure this year's match will be competitive. We're certainly ready to play another good team." 
Texas heads into the week­end's competition on a recent tear highlighted by an eight match-winning streak and a per­fect record in conference play. 
\Vith its recent 6-1 win over Oklahoma State, Texas picked up their 26th-straight win over a conference opponent. and improved to 14-2 in dual-match play. 
"We are playing real well right now and need to continue to stay focused down the home stretch of our season," Texas head coach Dave Snyder said. "[The Oklahoma State win] was a good win for us and I'm very proud of our guys." 
The Longhorns feature a squad with of thref' of their play­ers ranked in the Top 100 in Lhe nation. producing a formidable singles lirncup. Senior 'v1ichacl Hlue is ranked 25th, while senior Nick Crowell stands at 59th and sophomort\ Brandon llawk is slawd at 68th. 
All-American and 13th-rankNI Irish senior Ryan Sachirn will continue his duties as usual at No. 1 singles against the Longhorns. Sachire ]eat.ls tlw team in dual matches with an 11-4 record at '.'Jo. "I singles and has won :H of his last 41 dual singlt'S matrhes at thn position. 
Sachire irnprov1,d lo 24-9 011 the ynar with his win nt DukP, tht> only Irish victory of' tho eon­tesl. !\long with amassing an impressive singles rpcord, Sachire has demonstrated con­sistency in his,aggrnssivH stylH of play by posting a 7-0 record in three-set matches this y!:ar. 
Sophomores Javier Taborga and Aaron Talarico eontinuo their climb in tho doubles rank· ings. rising to lht) No. 29 spot in the latest Intcrcollcgiatc Tennis Association rankings. The duo stands at 15-6 1.m the year. while seven of their victor.ics have! 

comi; at tlrn expense of ranked """"""""""""'""""'""""""""'""""'======================-=....,.....,,...,,,,,,_____"'i 
opponents. 

Taborga and Talarico will most likely hav1, Blue· and Crowell who team together lo give the Longhorns the nation's second-ranked doubles team. 
Taborga and Talarico have suffered defoat to only 0111, ranked opponent in the 2000 season, but their matchup against the second-ranked tan­dem in the country will givn them a battle. 
The Irish doubles t1.rnrn or Sachire and Trent Millnr have also dmnonstrated solid doubles play in their recnnt matches, winning their last four matches at No. 2 doubles to improve their record to l 1-8 overall and 10-5 in dual matches. The pair has reeled o!T nine wins in their last 12 matches and bopP to support the Irish lineup with the same winning ways against Texas on Saturday. 
JOHN DAILY/The Observer 

Senior Trent Miller and the No. 30 Irish dropped two matches last weekend on the road. The Irish are back in action Saturday when they travel to Texas to take on the No. 10 Longhorns. 
Castl~'Poiot 
Apartments 
Cleveland and Ironwood Roads/18011 Cleveland Road/ South Bend, Indiana 46637/ (219)272-8110 
New Castle Point Select Units 
Available for 
Next Semester 
*Within minutes of campus* 
•
Renovated, spacious one and two bedroom apartments, some with lofts 

•
Includes membership in the new Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center 


A'ott._,_riv,~ ~ 
§J.l 7F TIJJJ{!DJA. Ji  
Track and Field  10:00 am Miami (OH)/Butler/W. Mich.  
Men's Lacrosse  3:30pm  vs. Ohio State  
§TJJNJJ))A If  
Women's Tennis  ·10:30am  vs. Wisconsin  
Softball  11:00am  vs. Providence(2)  
Women's Lacrosse 1:00 pm  vs. Vanderbilt  
Rowing  All Day  vs. Drake  

ijsl)SOFTBALL 
Today, 4 pm vs. UConn. 
R~1~u'
11,~~ 
Bull Pen Barbeque 
* 
First 50 students eat free! 

* 
First 50 fans get free CD, courtesy of Media Play! 


Friday, March 31, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 33 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish plan to end three-game slide against Commodores 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Sporr, \I('ritcr 
Tlw !'\otre Dame women's lacrossP tNtm looks to avenge its third conscwtivri loss as it faces tho Vanderbilt Commodores at horn<' in Moose Krause Stadium Sunday. 
Tlw lri~h arc coming off a 9-7 dr>l'nat last wcckm1d to the Johns llopkins Rlw• Jays. The loss pu! Notrl' llanw at 3-:{ on the sr,a­
son. 
'"The !loss! was disappointing bocansP Wl' played really well,'" midtif'ldcr Kelly J'vlcCardell said. .. It was frustrating.'· 
Tim Irish r.amc oul fasl to build a 2-0 lead with McCardell sroring twice in the first soven min utcs. Notre Dame held a 3-1 lead after freshman Danielle ShPan'r beat Him• Jays goalie Sara Lovl·. 
"I think to take control right 
from the start was cool," 
J\.lcCardel! said. "It showed 
llopkins that we were~ out there 
to win." · 
But thr Blue Javs countered 
Notre Dame's strong offonsi.ve 
play with three straight goals of 
their own and took a 4-3 lead 
into halftime. But Notre Dame 
ranrn back with two goals from 
co-captain Lael ()'Shaughnessy. 
the second with 20 minutes to 
go. After t:wo more tallies for 
Johns Hopkins brought tho seem, 
tu 7-5 in favor of the Blue Jays, 
O'Shaughm>ssy scored her third ·goal of the game. 
"It was a close game that came 
down to a few shots," McCardeU 
said. "We played a lot better 
than beforn. No one had a bad 
game." 
A~ the game came do\>vn to the wire, the Irish again camf\ with­.in reach of tying the game when 
:OI3~.F'I'.I" C::::<>~C::E~"I: 
To help tern>inaUy ill area children 
live:: t.heir clrc:amsl 
Featuring the o-,,usic o'i' Contexnpora.ry ChriMian Ce<:Qrdina a.rti$t.s "'-Ca:tum &. Lenilitk.i"• perfon-ninti so.ngs frc:.m ili~h-rocently reloa~u~,d CD -&elp me itoo DeUeve.-Ph.J.!'!t auests. M:usic in a lively and ent:ert:ainin_g envirCKUnent.! 
Good music, good message., good cause! 
~~-:zw,•=-a;-em
o·Laughli..n Aud.itori~. St l'.\llary•s College 
~?vrake-A-WIAh Poundatlo..­
' 
1:ofuidiana, u.c. 

T.ickets available at: Fa..rn..iJy Christian St<>res,. and t"he o•La.ughli:n. .Auditorium box office $IO.SO 
For more in.:fhrmation: 219-234.1262 
e-mail: tatumleoiski@hriioo-corn 
sophomore midfielder Natalie Loftus conVfirtcd a free position shot past Love, bringing the scorn to 8-7 with three minutes to go. But the Blue Jays finished the job when Erin Wellner sconid on a rebound from Irish goalie Tara Durkin with 20 sec• onrls to go. 
"Against Ohio State il came down to a couple of seconds," Mccardell said. "Against Johns llopkins we had more time. It was tough. We played hard the whole game and tried to pull through but we didn't." 
Durkin made J7 saves for the Irish. Johns llopkins outshot Notre Dame 32-26. The Irish continued to lead their oppo­nents in draw control, taking B of 18 faccofls. 
Notre Dame also turned uvnr the ball 27 times, 11 more than Johns llopkins. Irish co-captain Kathryn Perrella and sophomore defensr,man Rachel Turk had assists against .Johns Hopkins. 
"Out on the field we work real­ly well as a team," Mccardell said. 
The Irish (axers face No. 18 Vanderbilt on Sundav at home in Moose Krause Stadium. After losing their first three games, Vanderbilt now stands at 4-4 on the season. 
The Irish have lost three straight to the •Commodores, including a 18-9 defeat last year. 
All four of Vanderbilt's losses this season have come on the road. 
Team leader and tri-captain Sue Napolitano scored six goals in the Commodores' victory over Notre Dame in 1998. She has 24 goals and six assists so far this season. Emily Lough. a junior and the returning starter in goal for the Commodores, has posted an 11.94 goals against average and a .461 save percentage, with six starts. 
Shana Crabtree, Lough's back­up, started two games for Vanderbilt, compiling a 7.5 GM and a .500 save percentage. Crabtree started for Vanderbilt in the 1998 game against Notre Dame and played in goal against the Irish in 1999, splitting the duty for that game with Lough. 

Cathy Swezey is in her third year as head coach for the Commodores. ln 1999, the team finished seventh in the nation. 
"We've been looking forward to this game because it is a home game and (Vanderbilt isl a ranked team," Mccardell said. "This is a game we are really going to go after." 

Applications for HCA are being accepted on a rolling basis until.. ~11 p~~i~i<Jns are filled. The
~c;Four Pillars~" 
o;:f HCA 
Conimuni1>1 Living Service Simple Lifestyle Spiritualit)-• 

Applicatio11s available on our website. 
Associates are etlglb,:le-·for Amer:iCo,rps Education Awa,r,ds and Loan Deferments.. The ie,d:ucation Award Is. 5411 725 towards loan,s a.nd/or f1uture ediucatlon,.. 
Sera,.•i1tg ir, A rlz.~,,,a.. C"olt>rad.t,>, lJ.#assac/11,1.,.s·ett.s., Ore '/,on. and Pennsv1,,a111a 


http:.//wWw.nd..edu/----·hcassoc:/
For More Information caH 631-5521 
nd..hcaas.oc...1 @nd.edu 



page 34 

The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 31, 2000 
seconds left, but poor execu­
tion down the stretch sealed its fate. "It's tough to have turnovers 
NIT 
continued from page 36 
down the stretch," Dohertv said. "When you run somfl sn·t
half and stretched their lead to plays and get a player opm1.
as many as 20 at the 12:35 
you've got to deliver. You can't

mark. afford to make mistakns down
Tournament MVP Hobert 
the stretch and WP made somPO'Kellny <:aught fire and crucial turnovers."
drained some clutch :1-point­
The lrish shot just 3 7 per­fWS to givn Wake Forost a com-


A great way to beat the crowd and learn more about e-commerce with Randy Mehl from Robert Baird and Jennifer Lew from Arthur Anderson and more! 
This is your perfect opportunity to ,meet NEW PEOPLE, NE1WORK, and LEARN more about the ways that e-commerce is affecting you. 

1' or table 
lead. 
"Credit O'Kelley. He's a com­p et it iv e k i d . " Doherty said. "lit) 's struggled shooting the ball and I was hoping he would struggle one morn time, but. obvious­ly hn did not. lfo really eamc 


LIZ LANG/The Observer 

All-American Troy Murphy shoots over a Wake Forest defender Thursday night at Madison Square Garden. Murphy and David Graves were named to the 2000 NIT All-Tournament team. 
mmerce 
alive in the second half and hit a coupln shots that really hurl us." 
Every time tlrn Irish made a run, it seemed that th<\ Deacons had an answer. 
"It's pretty demoralizing when we played defonse for :10 seconds and then they run off some dribble penetration and kick it out for a three; that's tough," Murphy said. "They hit some big threos. ()'Kelley and !Craig] Dawson were feeling it. That's when it started .to slip away for us." 
The Irish, however, wouldn't go down without a fight, as they cut the lead to single dig­its with 2:49 to go. Notre Dame got within live with 27 

_.,,. 
cent from the lield and 28 per­

"You have to take your hat off to them. They played well defensively and shut down our q/J'ense, but we never quit. A couple shots here and there and it's a dif­ferent ball game. But that's the way it goes." 
Ovid Graves Irish guard 
and Dawson cam11 o!T the lwnch to contribul!\ 13 points. 
Notes: 
. 
Sophon1<1rP.s CravHs and Murphy wern named to the 2000 NIT All-Tournarnrnt team. 

. 
With five assists in the NIT r.hampionship game, senior point guard Jimmy Dillon tied the team's single season assists record. He now shares the record with Jack MeP.han who dished out 214 in thr, 1970-71 season. 

. 
The Irish are now 0-3 in the NIT title game. 


cent from beyond the arc. Murphy !rd the way with 2() points and six rebounds. G r a v e s added 17 points and six boards. 
F o u r Deacon play­ers scomd in dou hie fig­u r P. s . ()'Kelley who linished with a team-high 19 points 

Also: Ibn't forget the Free Gifts that y:u will re:eive for 
atterrlin]! ! ! ..;..._...__ ------------------------------------------------------=---­
Friday, March 31, 2000 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
MNsl,"!-1 ~El"MS LIKE :jV\,t ,=,=,-,,,::===--=::::-'IGR[t\i .So~E. oF O\Jia 01.-0 
"l;;) foi:C:>O•TftJ JV$• \l()w 
'(£.STEROAY 'N\l.fN ! Covt..O t.nn..E. \!>rt NINTeNDO c.-.l'-,.E'.> ~EAL~Y 
SP£NI) 'rlovR<:. "-' /l.. '"'1E:~E. E;<.l.i,~g\Kt. 'E°LMO I Mf. !'~t..'(1tJ0 1f\f$£ 1\.1\N<:, S 
130"-'L. Bli&8LE GoSSl£, 
Fox TROT 

The Observer . TODAY 
TOM KEELEY 
JEFF BEAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 
(OVLO '(0v 
Ol'£N A 
WINO0W~ ,~E:'NllJ'H'.N\)O IS S,f"-Ol<lt-lb ~(;.~IN 
BILL AMEND 
"FLY" PAPER 
MY FANNY. 
I 

page 35 


beam.1@ndedu 


CROSSWORD 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

HOROSCOPE 
FRIDAY, MARCH 31, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 

DAY: Rhea Perlman, Christopher 
Walken, Shirley Jones, Richard 
Chamberlain, John Fowles, Cesar 
Chavez, John D. Loudermilk, Al 
Gore · 
Happy Birthday: You will have 

the power to change your direction 
this year if you want to. You can 
move in interesting new directions 
that promise to result in making 
more money. Your progressive vision 
will make you a valuable member to 
any group you join. You will finally 
realize what you really want to 
accomplish and how to go about it. 
Your numbers: 12, 26, 31, 35, 40, 48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 

Work diligently at making changes 
that will ensure a more harmonious 
environment for you. Don't vacillate 
when it comes to taking care of 
matters concerning government 
agencies. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Get 

out and mingle even if you don't feel 
that sociable. You can learn an amaz­
ing amount if you listen to those 
with experience. Valuable friend­
ships will make it worthwhile. 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Draw 

the line if your partner tries to hold 
you back professionally. You may 
have to travel, but the bottom line is 
that you're doing it for both of you. 
Demand emotional support. 0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Travel 

will prove tobe auspicious. You should 
be able to mix business with plea­
sure. Cultural knowledge will bring 
you innovative ideas that you can 
implement into your presentation. 
000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take care of pending medical problems. Chances are good that everything will check out just fine. The main 
ACROSS 
This is a recording 8 High degree 
15 Nearing­completion comment 
16 Loose nut? 
17 16th-century 
Vatican frescoist 18 Cocked 19 "_ 'nuff!" 20 Tramp 22 Brits' 
expressions of gratitude 23 Air carrier 25 Discontinue, as a project 26 Monster's home 27 War story 
29 Velvet finish? 30 Similar: Prefix 31 Arizona 
attraction 34 Switch 35 Convenes 41 German 
pronoun 42 Crock 43 One way to deal 
with sin 44 Hockey's Mikita 45 It might pass 
une loi 47 Lawyers: Abbr. 48 Old what's-_ 
name 49 Like some gems 51 Be flat? 52 Bleep 

54 Hole in the head 56 Encounter 57 Regally attired 58 Make a mess in the kitchen 59 Prophetic figure 
DOWN 1 Address for a British magistrate, with "Your'' 2 Behind the eight ball 
3 Store, as for safekeeping 4 Biblical verb 
ender 5 Hopper 6 Gray hair 
makers 7 Mystery figure 8 Basic 9 "It's in the 
right direction" 1OSlash mark? 11 Exchange for 
53-Down 12 Apotheosis 13 Ties the knot 
again? 14 Basket made with both hands 21 like some peaches and plums 
37 Bygone queen 46 -verte (grayish green) 
38 Aid in a crisis 49 Rite receptacle
39 Leads on 
40 Tries to improve, 50 Kind of store as a lawn 53 See 11-Down 
45 Brown 55 Cone bearer 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888· 7-ACROSS. 
24 With feet of clay? 26 Musical Lynn 28 Of greater concern 30 8th-century B.C. prophet 32 East 33 Aviation concern 35 Wildcatter's dream 36 Chipped in 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA LAST 

concern will be to eliminate the worry ofnot knowing. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Make special plans that will be sure to enhance your personal relationship. A romantic offer from someone at work has been on your mind. Don't think that your mate is not aware. 
000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0cL 22): Social­izing with co-workers will lead to a better working environment. Some­one you do business with will find his or her way into your heart. Rumors may be detrimental if you aren't discreet. 00000 
SCORPIO (OcL 23-Nov. 21): Self­improvement projects will be highly successful if started today, so start that new diet or proceed with the al­terations you've been contemplating. 
00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can make prosperous real estate deals if you put your plans in action today. Don't hesitate to put money into upgrading your house in order to get a higher price. 0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
New love connections can be made through the company you keep. The relationship will move rather rapidly, so hold onto your hat and approach the situation with courage. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
You can make the best moves if you expand your business or your knowledge. Interviews leading to new career directions will be highly successful. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Organize your schedule carefully. Make sure you allow ample time to attend fitness classes. Social events will lead to love and romance if you are receptive to someone's advances. 
000 
Birthday Baby: You can see well into the future. You are aware of what is required in order to make things happen. You do not fear hard work and are always willing to help others when asked. You will recognize your ambitions and put them into play. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
t> 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 



Making a racket 
The No. 1 4 Notre Dame women's tennis looks to prove its strength when it takes on Wisconsin Sunday. 
PORTS 
page 31 
O
TIJE 

NIT 
Notre Dame's storied season ellds with NIT loss 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assistant Sports Edirnr 
NEW YOHK 

The third time was not a charm for Notre Dame Thursday night, as lhe Irish failed to win their Jirsl­ever NlT championship for the third time in school his­tory. 
Notre Dame (22-15), who was the runner-up in 1973 and 1992. droppPd a 71-61 contest to Wake forest NIT 
(22-14) in the NIT title game in front of 12,351 Championship fans at Madison Square 
Wake Forest 71 

Garden. 
Notre Dame 61

"You have to take your hat off to them," sopho­See Also more David Graves said. 
"Crispin shines in Penn
"They played well defen­sively and shut down our State's consolation win" offense. but we never quit. 
page 21

A couple shots here and there and it's a different ball game. But that's the way it goes." 
It didn't go Notre Dame's way in the first half. Wake Forest outscored the Irish 25-6 over an 11-minute span to take a 17-point lead with less than two min­utes to go. 
"You've got to score to win and you gain momentum by making plays and scoring baskets," Irish sopho­more All-American Troy Murphy said. "If you can't score for a long time, you kill your momentum. Credit their defense. They were tough and hit some shots. Can't have stretches where you don't score against good teams. We tried to do that tonight and came up short." 
The Irish turned the ball over 13 times in the first 16 minutes and the Deamon Deacons were able to capi­talize on those miscues, converting the 13 turnovers into 23 points. 
A technical foul on Irish head coach Matt Doherty with 1:59 left in the first half. however, served as a wake up call for Notre Dame. 
The Irish reeled off eight straight points to close the half and cut the Deacon lead to nine. 
"Coach is our team leader and our emotional leader," Murphy said. "I think he got us going. He got us on a run when we weren't playing with a lot of emotion. With Coach doing that he really got us fired up and back into the game before halftime." 
The Deacons. however, struck back in the second 
Irish sophomore David Graves takes an elbow to the face as he wrestles for the ball in Thursday's NIT see NIT/page 34 championship game Thursday. Graves had 17 points and six rebounds for the irish. 
Irish have special place in hearts of Notre Dame fans 
NEW YORK Joyce Center. The young team did." ways of college basketball. ed me and believed in me and 
Throughout the 1990s, excite­battled its way to a 22-win sea­The 1999-2000 Irish basketball Not this team. Not Coach my staff from day one, and they ment for Notre Dame basketball son. It upset five ranked oppo­team captured the adoration of Doherty. responded whenever we chal­lay dormant. the frantic crowds nents with a confidence unchar­the community with its upstart Doherty set five goals at the lenged them and came up with and 20+ acteristic among inexperienced attitude, a belief that it could season's start, goals he stuck some huge wins." win sea­players. beat any team in the nation on with throughout the season. His Maybe Doherty's dream of a sons of Most importantly, they stole the any given day. And they some­goals were to improve every day, national championship was out yester­hearts of the Notre Dame com­times did, knocking oIT two to win the next game, to win the of reach, but the Irish twice year a munity and of their first-year defending Final Four teams dur­Big East regular season, to win defeated the defending national long-gone head coach Matt Doherty. ing the first two months of their the Big East tournament and to champion Huskies. Perhaps memory. "I told them, I said they'll have season in Ohio State and win the national championship. Notre Dame couldn't win a Big 
This a special place in my heart," Connecticut. "I have expectations of winning East championship, but it played year's Doherty said after Thursday's Little was expected ofthe Irish every game and winning the to the buzzer against co-champi­Irish loss to Wake Forest. "You don't this year, as seven of their top national championship, and that ons Syracuse and Miami. The squad ever want to say one team's nine players were freshman or may sound ridiculous, but those Irish might not have pulled off revived going to be more special than sophomores. That kind ofnote are my expectations," Doherty their revised goal of bringing the old another. It's like saying one would have convinced a less­said. "Then you realize you're home an NIT banner, but they thrills. child's more special than another determined team or a less-confi­not in a perfect world. Did this didn't throw in the towel after They and that's not fair. But it's going dent coach to focus on improving team live up to my expectations'? being down 20. pulled in to be tough for some team to for next season, when the players They surpassed them. They rowdy sell-out crowds at the steal my heart like this team would be better schooled in the worked their tails off. They trust-see IRISH/page 22 


Kathleen O'Brien 
Associate Sports Editor 

Men's Golf at Texas • Women's Crew
SPORTS ., at Kentucky '!) Saturday, I p.m. • Women's Golf vs. Drake 
Friday Sunday
William & MaryATA Spring lnvirarional 
• 
Track and Field vs. Ohio Stare vs. Vanderbilt
at Williamsburg, Va. 

Saturday, 10 a.m. Saturday, 3 p.m. Sunday, 1 p.m. 
Saturday and Sunday 

£ ~
GLANCE 





