

No children allowed 
The Observer endorses Koelsch/Rodarte 
Friday

Adult content in this weekend's student/Um 
Emily Koelsch and Rachele Rodarte stand out from the pack ofcandidates in Saint Mary's presidential elections 
festival earned it a NC-17 rating 
Scene . pages 12-13 
JANUARY 28, 
Viewpoint . page 11 
2000 

THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

VOL XXXIII NO. 72 
SONG OF PRAISE 
By KATE STEER 
Assistant News Edi ror 
As Bill Clinton's vice presi­dent. Al Gore will have a lot to live up to ar.d a lot to over­come in his campaign for the prcsidoncy. Eitlrnr way, Gore 
bears a certain dis­tinction which his competitor, B i I I Bradley, felt in the 
Iowa cau­cuses, w h c r e Bradley was dt>fcat­ed 3-1. 
Gore's 
strength in the polls and pri­maries is something his cam­paign staff is pleased with. Staffers plan to capitalize on this lead, which gives Gore 
"The people who attended the caucuses came from every walk of l~fe tu show their support for Al Gore." 
Cruz Bustamante California lieutenant governor 
liberty to take firmer stands on issues. 
Gore presents his ideas on issues from education to health care to school violence with a heavy emphasis on family values. A self-pro­claimed "fighter for the American family," he has put 
and has proposed $2 billion to combat "suburban sprawl." Gore is widely popular among minority groups. "The people who attended 
energy into supporting the V-Chip and parental controls over TV and the Internet. 
Gore's other flag­ship issue is the environ­ment. He has pledged to save the family farm the caucuses came from everv 
0
walk of life to show their sup
-
port for Al Gore," California lieutenant governor Cruz Bustamante told reporters. 
Gore has also received endorsements from prominent Democrats and major publica­tions. The Concord Monitor of New Hampshire endorsed Gore as a champion of Democratic ideas and ideals. 
"Gore represents the best hope of his party both for holding the White House in 2000 and for furthering the ideals that he and Dill Bradley share," the Monitor wrote. 
Vermont governor Howard Dean said Gore's stance on health care is "the best way to achieve the ultimate goal of universal care for all Americans." 
New Hampshire governor Jeanne Shaheen also has pledged hor support to Goro. 
see GORE/page 4 
HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 
Annan to speak at commencement 
Annan's four priorities as
. U. N. secretary­
secretary-general have beengeneral will to revitalize the U.N. address Notre through a comprehensive 
program of reform; to
Dame graduates 
strengthen its traditional work for peace and develop­
Special to The Observer 
Kofi Annan, the secretary­general of the United Nations, will speak at the University's Commencement Address on Sunday, May 21. 
"In his t h r e e years at the helm of the United Nations, K o f i Annan h a s demon­strated his steadfast leadership and uncommon courage in the face of numerous interna­tional crises," University president Father Edward Malloy said. "We are pleased that he will honor us with his presence as we award him with an hon­orary degree." 
The seventh secretary­general of the United Nations, Annan is the first to be elected from the ranks of U.N. staff. He succeeded Boutrous Boutrous-Ghali and began a five-year term on Jan. 1, 1997. 

ment; to encourage and advocate human rights, the rule of law and the univer­sal values of equality, toler­ance and human dignity found in the U.N. Charter; and to restore public confi­dence in the organization by, in his words, "bringing the United Nations closer to the people." 
Among the international conflicts in which Annan has played a leading role is the ongoing effort to gain Iraq's compliance with the 
U.N. Security Council's reso­lutions. He also has assisted in promoting the transition to civilian rule in Nigeria and in resolving the stale­mate between Libya and the Security Council over the 1998 Lockerbie bombing. 
From November 1995 to March 1996, after the Dayton Peace Agreement that ended the war in Bosnia and Herzegovinia, Annan served as a special representative of the secre­tary-general to the former Yugoslavia, overseeing the transition in Bosnia and Herzegovinia from the U .N. 
see ANNAN/page 4 
~ 

http://www.A1Gorc2000.com
BACKGROUND 
*1976-1984: Represented Tennessee in U.S. House of Representatives 
*1985-1992: Represented Tennessee as U.S. Senator 
*1993-present: Vice President of United States 
"I think all elections for president in this country are about our nation's soul. I believe we have to give meaning to the lives of our young people." 
-Al Gore 

D E M 0 C R A T 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
In Appreciation 
One day l\faureen Mulligan walked into class without her usual swagger. We watched her strained face as she sat and joined the r.ircle of desks she created to bring our CORE class closer 

together in room 304 of Debartolo Hall. 
"They've got me loaded up on pills today to help with the pain. I frwl like I'm in space," she :;aid with an annoyed grin. 
That's all it ever was for Professor Mulligan: an annoy­ance that her recurring bouts with breast cancer got in the way of her rigorous routine of teaching, learning, and the enjoyment of being a mother to her two sons. and loving wife for her husband. 
We all smiled along with 
her; after all. she had already talked with us 
months before. on the first day of class, about how her bouts with cancer might cau:;e her to 
miss a fow days. 
She apologized to us, saying, "I've beaten it before, and I'll beat it again." She had us fooled, because we didn't have the slightest idea what was going on. 
The emotional first-day speech faded into our memories, and class went on without illness entering our mind:;. 
One day she brought a friend of hers who was legally blind into class so we could learn to sec the world in a different way. IL was something special in class that day, and it changed the way I looked around me. She often talked of her child­hood, and of her kids and husband. However, she rarely mentioned the condition that was destroy­ing her future. 
Weeks later. during a discussion of nature, she opted to lead us on a march all the way around Saint Mary's lake on one of the last warm and sunny days last fall. She pointed out every differ­ent kind of 11ower on the banks of the lake by name. We saw the leaves beginning to paint the entire forest. We saw swans dipping their heads underwater to escape the sun. 
"Do we have to go all the way around the lake?" someone complained. "Class is almost over and my shoes are muddy." 
Professor Mulligan gave him a look of shame. as he well deserved. "C'mon now, we're halfway back." she said with the tone of a coach pushing an athlete to the next level. "Besides, look at this beautiful day. There aren't many of these left." We all missed the irony. 
Soon after, the weather at our university changed. One day when the Golden Dome was first laced with a delicate snow, we entered room 304 and our professor wasn't there. Our substi­tute read from the detailed instructions left by Professor Mulligan: more medical tests were being done, she was sorry, she would be back as soon as possible, we must keep up with the read­ings and discussions. 
When we left for break. we expected to return in Januarv with another semester of Professor Mulligan's sarcastic humor. We expected to receive the kind of insight only gained from a person who has never taken shortcuts. but instead has opted to enjoy all the foliage of life. 
Maureen Mulligan died on Saturday. at her 
home in Dowagiac, Michigan. She missed only
r three days of class the entire semester, and was
' successful in keeping our focus off of her, and on
• 
our class material. 
Next time it won't be me who complains. I will take advantage of my opportunity to always go all the way around the lake. and will appreciate every heartbeat while the warm weather lasts. 
The views e.r:pressed in lhe Inside Column 

are those of the author ancl not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Erin Piromek Mike Vanegas Maribel Morey Graphics Nicole Hadd~d Joe Mueller 
Sports Production 
Kathleen O'Brien Noah AmsraJcer Viewpoint Lab Tech Lila Haughey Angela Campos 
Tl,c Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) ;, puhli,hed Monday rhrough Frid>y excepr during ex;u11 ;1nd v.ic.nio11 periods. Th{' Observer i~ ,-1 member of rhe Associaced Pres:;:. All reprodm.:rion ri~hrs ,ire rcscrvcJ. 
Matthew Smith 
copy editor 
The Observer . INSIDE Friday, January 28, 2000 
THIS WEEK IN ND/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
New locking policy at Alumni January 29, 1971 Two main entrances were locked and additional doors installed to improve security in Alumni. "The doors were requested by Alumni residents in the Fall after the stab­bing incident at Alumni.'' The doors only opened when a special card, distributed to each resident, was insert­ed. In case of a party, these men would have to be at the door with their card:; to let in the guests. 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Michigan State U. recruit faces rape charges 
EAST JANSING. Mich. 
Prized Michigan State University football recruit Eric Knott could face life in prison now that he has been charged with two counts of first­degree criminal sexual conduct relat­ed to a July 25 incident involving a 13-year-old girl. 
Wayne County Prosecutor Dave Mccreedy said Knott was accompa­nied by two other men during the incident. The two other men have been identified as juveniles, McCrecdy said. He also said police or prosecu­tors have presented no new cvidcmce since the 18-year-old's Aug. 27 arraignmenl. 
Considered the nation's top high school tight end, Knott's charges com­plicate his commitment to MSU, which came at a news conference held at Detroit Henry Ford High School. where he is now a senior. Knott was 
Va. Tech finds spring break scams 
BlACKSBUHG, Va. 
Spring break travel scams can bring the best vacation plans to a grinding halt. As students prepare for trips to such places as Jamaica, Cancun or Florida, they should be careful to avoid deals which sound too good to be true. Many Virginia Tech students have their own horror stories about spring break adventures. "We were nying out of Haleigh to Cancun last year," said Kim Ascue, senior. "We arrived two hours before our 11ight to find out that our vouchers were wrong and our flight didn't leave till 7 p.m. "Problems can arise at any time during travel. Many people seem to have ditliculty with their flight plans." When we tried to check in they wouldn't let us on the plane because the company hadn't paid for our seats and now the plane was full," Ascue said. After being given the run around from [a travel company] they arranged a flight for us from Newark, so we new to Newark and left at 3 a.m. for Cancun," she said. Hotel reservations can also become dillicult if not made prop­erly or confirmed. "We were told that since we had such a large group that the hotel wouldn't bump us but since they were overbooked, they did," Ascue said. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather"forernst for daytime conditions and high 1emperatures 
H  L  
Friday  ~  27  11  
Saturday  Q·:· .·:· ::•  33  25  
·:·  ·:·  
Sunday  Q•;·.;:=·.;:;•  36  25  
Monday  u  ;  36  25  
Tuesday  ~  39  27  
}./  '·'  '··=..t..  

q_Q,~A,@Q q ~ 6 
Showers T-starms Rain Flurries Snow le• Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy VfaAssociafed pr955 GmphicsN91 

allowed to play after the arraignment. 
I le caught 42 passes last season for 10 tou<'hdowns, leading Henry Ford to a Public School League title. MSU has the option of withholding Knott's scholarship until he resolves his legal troubles. 
The Stale News could not reach Knott and his attorney Wednesday night. A woman answered a call to Knott's home but was told to hang up 
U. Washington students torch flag 
SEATTLE 
Doused in fuel and surrounded by lighter-wielding students, a Confederate battle flag burned quickly Wednesday, but the controversy surrounding its place in society promised to linger much longer. "We cannot have true brotherhood and sisterhood in this country until we get rid of symbols like this," said Tyson Marsh as he put the first name to the emblem. inviting those in the crowd with lighters to join him. About half a dozen did, to the raucous approval of the 50 or so stu­dents who gathered in Hed Square to denounce the flag, racial hatred and an opinion piece that appeared in The Daily last week. A founding member of the campus' :vtinority Think Tank, Marsh helped organize the small 1 :30 p.m. rally which drew most of its par­ticipants from students passing through the Square in between classes." We wanted to let people know how we felt," he said. To that end, Marsh and two other speakers gave short speeches while displaying the banner, thumbtacked to a six-foot staff. before setting it ablaze. "Some say it's a symbol of Southern her­itage," Denise Cooper told the students. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
SMC professor pleads not guilty January 26, 1988 Professor Peter Smith and four others were arrested for criminal trespassing. During a Christmas Eve sit-in held in the third district Congressman John Hiler's office, the group protested U.S. support of the Contra Rebels of Nicaragua. This "Pledge of Hesistance" group was tried in the St. Joseph County Court. Later that month, Smith and others joined a month of fasting for the same cau:;e. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
by a person in the background. 

Citing NCAA rules that prohibit uni­versity officials from discussing recruits that haven't signed with a university, MSU Trustee David Porteous would not discuss the case. 
·Tm sure Coach [13obby] Williams and the athletic department will look into it and do all they can do. and I look forward to hearing the full story," he said. 
MSU spokesman Terry Denbow also declined comment Wednesday. Knott had a trial dat<i set for Jan. 18, coin­ciding with his 18th birthday, but the date was delayed because of schedul­ing connicts with Knott's attorney. A new date is slated for March 15 before a Wayne County Circuit Court judge. Texas-based recruiting expert Bobbv Burton said MSU should handle the recruitment when the trial is resolved. 
................. .....,,.
It> 2000 AccuWeather. Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
@"""co D CJ CJ E3 CJ D {.) ~, * 
High low ShOwera Rain T•storh\S f'lurrll'J• Snow l<:ti Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via AssOCJar.d fqess 
Anchorage 21 7 Dallas 36 24 New Orleans 59 49 Berkeley 60 42 Honolulu 77 62 New York 28 20 Boston 22 12 Kansas Ciiy 24 19 Rapid City 27 15 Boulder 28 10 Louisville 35 24 Savannah 47 35 Chicago 26 14 Miami 74 62 Wash DC 34 20 
BOARDO 
ERNANCE 
Friday, January 28, 2000 Page 3 




Bittner Banahan Koelsch Rodarte Koepke Hollis Renner Nagle 
Students 'Meet the Candidates,' get answers 
Rachel Rodarte agreed. ing a community more of a Henner agreed. TV channel and the Keenan By SARAH RYKOWSKI "Communication is a big part community." "We need to get the commu­Revue. News Writer or what rrneds tu be done," said Koelsch also addressed the nity excited about Saint The candidates were asked 
Koelsch. issue of Saint Mary's pride. Mary's," RennAr said. whether they felt the contro­
Members of the Saint Mary's .Jillian Koepke and her run­"We are all about spirit," The Koelsch/Rodarte ticket versial Keenan Revue should community had a chance to ning mate Desiree Hollis, along Koelsch said. "The spirit you suggested asking area stores to be held in Saint Mary's hear more from the four tiek­with the other candidates. catch when vou come on cam-carry Saint Mary's apparel to O'Lauglin auditorium. cls running for student body included " pus." increase "It is diffi­pn,sidcnt and vice president increasing Making community cult tu ban during a question-and-answer Saint Mary's "The biggest issue is Saint Mary's awareness of "One ofthe most something session. pride as key women and the College. that brings
cooperation between BOG important things is to
Before opening the floor to to their the communi­"We feel so many peo­questions from the audience. platform. and the student body." ty realize all like the corn -bring the campus ple to cam­candidates answered questions "One of the College munity together. " pus. My role 
generated by the Board of the most has to offer doesn't know as a student
Crissie Renner
Governance. important was part of e n o u g h leader is to 
presidential candidate Jillian Koepke 
Asked to address the most things is to presidential about us. We find out what important issues facing Saint bring this candidate need to pro­presidential candidate students Mary's, the candidates agreed campus Missy Bittner mote every think about that communication was together," Koepke said. "I and running mate Molly aspect of the it," Banahan important. would want to make sure that Banahan's platform campus," Rodarte said. said. 
"The biggest issue is cooper­more people were familiar "Saint Mary's is a journey, Given the opportunity to ask Nagle took a more decisive ation between BOG and the with each other. not a destination -an ever­the candidates questions, stance. student body," presidential "That would promote school evolving community with so members of the audience "I don't see why we couldn't candidate Crissie Renner said. pride and make people more many opportunities," Banahan raised a variety of issues have the Keenan Revue 
Presidential candidate Emily comfortable about approach­said. "We need to get the name including questions regarding banned from campus," Nagle Koelsch and her running mate, ing student government, mak-out in the community." the smoking proposal, a cable said. 

Love: Interracial Dating 
Dinner and Panel Discussion 
\Vednesday -February 2, 2000 @5:30 p.m. 
Center for Social Concerns 
RSVP to OMSA@ 1-6841 by Monday, January 31 

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 28, 2000 
was given a special assign­lnstitut Univcrsitaire des ment to facilitate the repatri­Hautos Etudes
Annan 
ation of more than 900 lnternationales in Geneva international staff and the f'rom 1961 to 1962, and, as a 
_c_o1_1t_in_u_e_d_fr_o_rn_p_a_g_e_l___ release of Western hostages Sloan Fellow at the Protection Force to the in Iraq. He subsequently led Massachusetts Institute of m u I t i n a t i O n a I the first U.N. team negotiat­Technology in 1971-72, he lmplementation Force led by ing with Iraq on the sale of earned a master's degree in NATO. oil to fund purchases of management. 
He played a primary role in humanitarian aid. Annan joined the U.N. sys­the unprecedented growth in Born April 8, 1938, in tem in 1962 as an adminis­size and scope of U.N. peace-Kumasi. Ghana, Annan stud­trative and budget officer keeping operations from ied at the University of with the World Health 1993-1996, with tot.al Science and Technology in Organization in Geneva. deployment reaching a high Kumasi and completed his Annan is fluent in English, in 1995 of almost 70,000 mil-undergraduate work in eco­French and several African itary and civilian personnel nomics at Macalester College languages. He is married to from 77 countries. in St. Paul, Minn., in 1961. Nane Annan, a lawyer and 
In 1990. after the invasion He undertook graduate stud­artist; they havfl three rhil­of Kuwait by fraq, Annan ies in economics at the dn·n. 
Gore 
continued from page 1 
Shaheen said Gore is the only candidate who can propagate economic prosperity. "!He 
can] keep  us  on  the  right  
track," she said.  
William  Daley.  U.S.  

Secretarv of Commerce, has said that Gore's commitment to the Ameri.can family as ben­eficial to what might be con­tinued efforts to improve the economy. 
While Gore has acknowl­edges past mistakes, he ha,s not apologized for them. He has admitted to using marijua­na, but attributes it to the post-Vietnam era. llis image as an honest "regular American" are his greatest attributes in the ongoing char­acter debate. 
Gore is the son of a former senator and was raised in Tennessee and Washington, 
D.C. Ile graduated from Harvard University in 1969 and attended Divinity School in Tennessee. Gore also attended Van de rbil t Law School. 
The Linebacker Lounge presents ... 
THE LINEBACKER 
"BREAKFAST CLUB" 
Saturday, January 29 11 am -3 pm 
Notre Dame Men's Basketball 
VS 
St. John's at 3 pm 
• Grill Open for Orders from 11 am 
• Giveaways from a~~s 
• Show your Ticket for the St. John's game and win a chance at the Big Prize! 
YOU MUST BE 21 TO ENTER! ID Required 
-

ATRIA SALON ACADEMY 
MONDAYS ONLY ALL SERVICES PERFORMED BY STYLISTS IN TRAINING 
Valid only with the following Junior Stylists: Angie, Connie, Vicki, and Jennifer 
Hilites and Haircut  ---------------------­ $15.00  
Penn and Haircut  ---------------------­ $15.00  
Colour and Haircut  ---------·-----------­ $15.00  

289-5080 
1357 N. Ironwood Dr. on the corner of Edison 1 mile east of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Certain restrictions apply. All services arc performed by our Junior Stylists in training. Please mention this ad when booking appointments. 

ljflCCE'C •Introduction to all levels •Students are instructed according to their level •The fun way to_stay healthy and fitCl M _ asses eet: >;:;;,;. ,,j' Beginner Sundays l:00pm-2:30pm Wednesdayf;£:30pm-7:45pmj('" ,,,.. ·••··• ~ ,··· ,. ' ; -~-~I'_j ~·· .· . ,.Advanced , . .,Sundays_...:~<2:30pm74:00pm Wednesday~~ .7;45pm~9:00pm ii' ~;;; ·"1 ~i~~i;, Pointe Sundays --f:::.4~0~m-4:45pm Wednesday("'.~:09Pffl:-9:30pm All classes meet at the Rolfs:SportsilRecreation Center InformatiortM.ee tingSunday/January 30 l :00pm -Rolfs Sports Recreation Center Register in Advan~e at RecSPorts Registration Fee is $39.00:for Ballet &$10 for Pointe Sign-Ups Begin Monday; January 31-~ 8:00am Space istimited R~~ Please recycle The Observer.  SafeRide Coordinator Needed Student Government Wants to Bring SafeRide Back to You But, We Need A Coordinator 5-10 Hours/Week $$$ Extra Cash $$$ Work With Student Government and the Security Office For Info Call: 631-9888  

orld 


Friday, January 28, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Iraq: No dealings with U.N. Inspector 
BACI-IDAD. Iraq 
Iraq will not deal wil.h the new chief U.N. wr•apons inspertor despite the unanimous backing he received from the U.N. Security Coundl. a senior Iraqi official said today. Nizar lfamdoon. a deputy foreign minister. said in a radio interview that Iraq has prob­lnms with the U.N. resolution that r:reatod the new inspPction agency. not ner.essarily with tlw 1ww r.hiel' inspector. llans Blix. "The mat­ter is mon' complirated than the issue of Blix or thP naming of' a new commission," Ilamdoon told tlH\ French-sponsored. Arabic­language Hadio Monte Carlo in an interview monitored in Baghdad. lie cited "the current degree of' mistrust existing between Iraq on Hlf' one hand anrl the counr,il on the nther" as tlrn main stumbling block. Clix "may be a r:ornpromise candidate for Security Council rnrmbers but Iraq is not ronrerned with the compromise," said Hamdoon. Iraq's former nnvoy to the United Nations. 
Report: Teen smoking down 
ATLANTA 
Smoking among high schoolers dropped in 1999 for the first time sinr,e the government began keeping track at the start of the der.ade. But nearlv one in 10 rhildren are alrc\ady smoking cigarettes in middle school. A nationwide survey of 7.529 high schoolers in September and October found that 28.4 pen:r.nt reported using tobacco products in tlw preceding month. the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said Thursday. In 1997. thr. last time the CDC looked at high school smoking, 36.4 percent of students said they had smoked in the prer,eding month. At the time. t0.r.n smoking was on the rise, from 
34.8 percPnt in 1995 and 27.5 percent in ! lJ91. the first year the CDC started keeping track. The CDC said it exper,ted teen smoking rates to drop -just not by so much. 
Spain police kill British fugitive 
TORHEMOLINOS, Spain 
Spanish police shot and killed a British man Thursday who was wanted on charges of sexu­ally abusing an 11-year-old girl back home. authorities said. Police said in a statement that Michael Lindgen-Hornett was killed as officers trir.d to arrnst him following a car chase in the southnn seaside resort to,.vn of Torremolinos. Lindgen-llornetl was wanted in Britain for allegedly abusing a girl who was friends with his daughter, the statement said. Spanish and British polke had tried to close in on the man at Malaga city airport. some 20 miles east of Torremolinos. But once he realized he was been pursued, Lindgen-Hornett sped off. driving on the wrong side of the road for much of the way to Torremolinos. the statement added. 
lihil#•iiffi1MfiH 
AMEX:
Dow 
882.80 
-29.41
JONES 
-4.97 Nasdaq: 4039.56 -30.35 

NYSE 
626.76 -1.67 

S&P 500: Composite1398.56 Volume:11028.02 -5.53 I,117,000,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 
½OMP6£tX '!'ICIER \ CIIAlllCI 1$ CtwiOI PIJICE 
Dll.L CO'MPUTBR OEI.tL -6, 97 -2.1850 37 .56 JOHN JU.N fIN JHP +J..fiS IL6200 11.,2 HICJI.OSOl'T CORP MSFT -0. 63 -0-6;350 ,e.1s QUALCON'N I~ QCOM -l.'71 -4. 64S 120, 00 A.N21.IC'!A OKLlNI AOL +-2.81 -+1.6825 61.62 INTEL CORP IN'IC -f'l.613 1'1.62 9B,l2 ORACLE CORP ORt'L -5.!H -3. 5l!; 51. 89 
COMJilAQ CONPUTBR CPQ -J. 03 -C.875 21.00 nco INTL LTD TYC +-8 .51 +l.3750 .. , . 15 PAG?NQ NIM'WIORK PAGg -10.U -0.595 1.1, 
INDONESIA 
President confident despite ruIDors 
Associated Press 
JAKARTA 
One hundred days after b!'coming Indonesia's president, Abdurrahman Wahid on Thursdav dismissed rumors of an imminen't military coup. with his r.ountry fac­ing intP.rnal violenr,e, a mnsque bombing and a student protest. 
The president branded his foes in the military as "cowards" and said most members of the armed forces support him. 
Pushing ahead with reforms to lessen the military's role in politics. Wahid signed a decree removing four generals from the military so they can continue to serve as Cabinet ministers. One of the four was security affairs Minister Gen. Wiranto, who commanded the armed t'orct.s under authoritarian ex-President Suharto and Wahid's predecessor, B.J. Habibie. 
A state-appointed human rights probe has implicated Gen. Wiranto and other Indonesian commanders in a rampage of killing and destruc­tion in East Timor last vear. investi­gator Asmara Nababan said Thursday. 
Wahid was elected by parliament on Oct. 20 as Indonesia's first democratic head of state after four decades of authoritarian rule. A Muslim leader who has long preached religious tolerance. Wahid predicts the country's cur­rent outbreak of violence will end within two months. 
Despite this. at least 65 people were killed during the past three days in fighting among Christians and Muslims in lhe eastern Maluku archipelago, local military com­mander Brig. Gen. Max Tamale said Thursday. 
The clashes on Bacan. a small have died this week despite a peace "The situation is improving now. island about 1,600 miles northeast mission there by Wahid on Monday. We can say that the danger to our 
of Jakarta. were the latest out­Meanwhile, hundreds of students territorial integrity is already pass­breaks of violence in a yearlong demonstrated for secession in the ing," he said. conflict that has claimed more than neighboring province of Riau on Earlier this week, Wahid blamed 
2,000 lives. Thursday. Police used tear gas and disgruntled members of the military Many victims died in street battles fired warning shots to disperse the as well as some fanatical Muslims 
fought with axes. swords. spears protest outside a petroleum plant for fomenting violence. and homemade guns in the archi­operated by the Caltex oil company. Wahid said he would go ahead pelago, which used to be called the Wahid has promised to give with a two-week tour of the Middle Spice Islands. restive provinces more autonomy East. Europe and Asia starting 
On Thursday, a small bomb and money. but has ruled out Friday, despite rumors of a possible rocked a mosque in Yogyakarta, on demands for independence. coup. Indonesia's main island of Java. No Speaking at a news conference in "I am not worried about a very one was injured. Jakarta Thursday, Wahid said that small number of military leaders 
In the northwest province of along with reforms to the nation's who actually do not have follow­
Aceh, thousands more have been crippled financial system, his ers," Wahid said. "I know this killed in a separatist war. At least defense of national unity had been small number and they are cow­18 rebels, soldiers and villagers a major achievement. ards." 

Merck may have AIDS breakthrough 
aim at in fighting the HIV inhibiting" drugs to block of chemicals and found
Associatrd Press 
virus, important as today's its effect, much like the two compounds known as AIDS drugs slowly lose popular AIDS-fighting "diketo acids" that hit thatWASHINGTON 
their edge with few "protease inhibitors" spot. In laboratory tests,
Scientists have become options in sight. block the action of a dif­the compounds successful­increasingly frustrated in It's called integrase, an ferent HIV enzyme called ly inhibited integrase andthe hunt for novel ways to enzyme carried by the protease. fought HIV.
attack the AIDS virus, but 
AIDS virus that causes a But attempts to create In an unusual move. 
now they're getting some crucial step in HIV infec­integrase inhibitors have Merck executives refusedencouraging news: Drug 
tion: It melds HIV's genet­failed so far. to allow the lead scientist
giant Merck & Co. has ic material with the Merck's advance, -Daria Ilazuda -to dis­
mapped the way toward a 
patient's own DNA inside reported in Friday's edi­cuss her discovery with
long-elusive target. 
their cells, essentially tion of the journal reporters.
It will take years of 
hijacking cells. Only then Science, was to uncover But a Merck spokesman
additional research to 
can HIV begin reproduc­the exact spot in the said the compoundsturn the finding into a 
ing at its infamously furi­enzyme's action that must described in Science have
usable medication, 
ous rate. be blocked for an inte­certain problems that pre­experts cautioned. 
Scientists have long grase inhibitor to work. vent them from being pur­
But the research gives known about integrase's Merck researchers sued as drugs. so the com­
scientists another -and crucial function and tried screened 250,000 samples p any is hunting betterlong-awaited -place to to create "integrase in the company's library candidates. 

page6 The Observer .NATIONAL NEWS Friday, January 28, 2000 
Clinton proposes $350 billion tax cut in 'State of the Union' 
idea first championed by rule out working with him on meant to credit Gore with ures double or triple the origi­
Associated Press 
~1epublicans -and a new pro­such issues as education and helping making communities nal amount. 
gram of retirement savings health care. "If we enacted all more "livable." Instead, Clinton boasted that the
v\'ASHll\'GTON 
accounts. th!> nPw programs the presi­Clinton said "liberal" -not nation has been lifted from
President Clinton proposed a 
r-.tosl of 1.he proposals were dent has talked about, we'd once but twice. The audience economic distress, social
$3!J0 billion tax cut, big 
released in advance but. the spend just about the entire -Gore included -guffawed. dcclinA and political gridlock. 
spending increases for schools 
White House withheld surplus on biggpr and more Five davs beforo the New "We begin the new century
and health care and photo ID 
Clinton's gun licensing mea­expensive government," said Hampshir'e primary, Clinton with over 20 million new jobs.
licenses for handgun purrhas­
sure until thA last minute to House Speaker Dennis seized thr~ r,hancA to boost The fastest economic growth
e s 
build suspense. Similar to a Ilastert, R-Ill. Gore in his race for the in more than 30 years. The
Thursday 1 
plan offered by Vice Presideut Clintun was greeted by Democratic presidential nomi­lowest unemployment rates in
night as bf• 
Al Gore, it would require applause and handshakes by nation. Six times, Clinton 30 years. The lowest poverty
offered the 
handgun purchasers to first Republicans and Democrats made references to tho vice rates in 20 years. The lowest
final agen­
obtain a state license showing alike as he made his way into president. Clinton also recog­. African-American and
da of his 
they have passed a back: th<> House chamber to address nized another candidate: the Hispanic unemployment rates
presiden­
ground check and a gun safety a joint session of Congress. His first lady, running !'or the U.S. on reeord. The first back-to­
cy. "The 
requirement, such as a train­wife, HHlary, and their daugh-Senate seat in New York. back surpluses in 42 years."
state of 
ing COllrSf' ter, Chp,l<;1~a. Many of Clinton's proposals In ofTNing his gun lic1~nsi11g
our union 
Clinton or an home from V\erc repackaged from earlier plan, Clinton said, "We've all
is the 
exam. "The state ofour union is college, were years and, in some cases seen what bapp1rns when guns
strongest it 
States the strongest it in thP audi­rnsubmitted vvith spending fig-fall into the wrong hands."
has ever been," he boasted. 
C O U l d ence. Ilis
At thP start of an election­has ever been. " 
choose not speech turned , 1 1 • 1 1 , , • , , , , 1 , 1, , 1 , 1,, 1 1 1,, , , , , , , 1 1 1 ,
vea1i, Clinton re Lu ked 
to partic­out to be his 1
C:ongress in his last State of 
ipate in the Bill Clinton longest State 1
the Union address and called 
program. president of the Union •
fur action. "Fur too long this 
T h c address: 89 •
Congress has been standing 
National minutes, best-•
still ou some of our most 
Ri.fll' ing his 199!) •
pressing national priorities," 
Assodaliun dismissed th() plan record of 81 minutes. 13y one •
he chided. 
as pointlAss and unworkable. count, he was interrupted by •
The president noted that 
"Every state in this country applausB ·1 28 times, most of it •
next month the United States 
already requires hunters and f'rom Democrats. •
will achieve tlw longPst period 
automubile drivers to have a '.'VI.ore than an hour into his •
of economic growth in 1.he 
license. I think they ought to speech, Clinton fluhbed a line •
nation's historv, and called on 
do the same thing for handgun
Americans to "set great 
purchases," Clinton said. "l
goals." ·Univ. Laundry anmng 
WANT YOUR OWN WEBSITE? 
I-year old Internet Company now in I30 countries offers revolutionary Web-Site Builder & Internet Hosting package in 20 languages. Online package comes with Educational and Tutorial Programs designed for both the novice and the expert computer user. Now everyone can have their own easily built, easily edited Website. The Cost: $100 per year, renewable annually, plus a one-time $10 set-up fee. Period. 
Go http://www.skynary.com/thewebsiter for details on the opportunity, the company, and to purchase your complete Website package. Use your credit card. Provide your basic personal info. 10 seconds later you have your 
Website. Start Learning! Start Building! 
Questions? Call The WebSiter at 219-271-8584. 

SATURDAY JANUARY 29 
8:00 P.M. 
O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's Box Office 
284•4626 
at the Campus Shoppes 1813 South Bend Ave. 
Monda Dollar Day Tanning Tuesda 
Senior Day Free Drying For Senior Citizens Wednesda Free Hot Dogs Thursda Students Free drying w/College ID 
.45¢ Drop OffAll Month 
Till Feb. 29th 
Job Search Workshop 
Resume Development and Interviewing Tips from an Organization that Does On-Campus Recruiting 
Presented by 
Gibson & Associates, Inc. Management Consultants 
http://www.gibsonconsulting.com 
Monday, Ja1tuary 31st 7:00 -8:30 PM Room 112 Center for Continuing Education 
Refreshments will be served I 
All Notre Dame and St. Mary's Students Welcome ! 
Beginner Jazz Dance 

S".... . f' "\'.1: 
odern Dance 
1

Classes Meet:Mond ~2''E'",> 6:30pm•7:45pm T~.urs :30pm-7:45pm Activity Room 2t;i1R . ·ion Center 
Information 
, ... df:¥).0, 1:30pm Activity Roo /creation Center 
"9\'. 

Register in Advanc . $ports· $,a~Jee 
Sign-Ups Begin Monday, Ja2oary 3lf{?tPDam ~-~~ ~: '.t~~ ~:'~­
'Qil 'i.. ,. 

Classes Begin Mondby{,fi~~ary 7 
i!;{.,t --:-t··:~~=­
<tji}i~~1ws~­

No Experience Ne6issaryl:7 ,:;:~r;:; 
k?u-~""'¥ 
The president offered a litany of initiatives, many of them sure to be rewritten or ignored by Congress. His tax cut proposals were intended primarily to promote educa­tional opportunities and expand health insurance and child care for lower-and mid­dle-income Americans. The initiatives included relief from the "marriage penalty" -an hope you'll help me pass that in this Congress." 
Clinton called for passage of a patients' bill of rights to strengthen consumer protec­tion, gun-safety legislation, campaign finance reform, an increase in the minimum wage and votes on long-stalled judi­cial nominations. 
Republicans ridiculed Clinton's proposals but did not 
Friday, January 28, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS 2000 
O!Q SOM!:TRING 
DIFFERENT 

Dec1.dlin,9s for sul1Ut1Eu:· cr-e,diic ,earnir..g programii 
~-ACCION -FEBRUARY 17, 2000 
Wl WATCH FOR INFORMATION MEETING TlME COMlNG SOON! 
~ LEADERSHlP INTERNS-FEBRUARY 21, 2000 ~ • AFRICAN AMERICAN 
• HISPANIC 
INFORMATION MEETING: WHERE: CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS (COFFEE HOUSE) WHEN: MONDAY, JANUARY 31 
TIME: 7:30 PM -8 PM 
& INTERNATIONAL SUMMER SERVICE PROGRAM 
~ (DEADUNE PAST) 
~ SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS -JANUARY 28, 2000 

INFORMATION AND APPLICATIONS FOR ALL PROGRAMS ARE AVAILABLE AND DUE AT THE CENTER FOR SooAL CONCERNS 
Please recvcle The Observer. 
~ 
SOCIAL 
~ 
Internship fair draws huge crowd 
. 80 companies, 800 students contribute to record attendance 
By ERIN COSTANTINI News Writer 
Career options for Notre Dame students are always expanding, and Thursday's ninth annual Summer Internship Job Fair exempli­fied the trend. 
With an unprecedented 80 nationwide companies, the fair attracted more than 800 stu­dents to the Joyce Center field­house. Undergraduate job­seekers searched for employ­ers willing to let them preview careers. 
"There is a diverse array of opportunities available," said Leo Svete, director of Career and Placement. "If we can get students thinking of careers now, we can get them thinking of what they want to do. and make them more compet­
mer job. He was a little nervous but pleased be to involved. 
"The fair is helpful to know what's out there," Dooley said. "It's nice to have so many 
great companies in one place." Internship Job Fair include the Arthur Anderson, Ernst & student resume drop box and Young and General Electric the "GO IRISH" Web site. The 
(GE) were among com­panies taking advantage of the career fair as a con­venicnt and inexpensive way to meet Notre Dame students. 
" A l employers are happy to be here at Notre Dame," drop box allowed stu­
"There may not be some­dents to sub­thing for everybody, but mit resumes 
to 50 compa­

this is a great 
nies not in

opportunity for the attendance. 
career search This serves to broaden
experience. 
the jobs available, Leo Svete with intern­
director of Career and ships in film, museums
Placement 
itive as "It's nice to have so 
resentative 
seniors." 
many great companies Lynn Buhl 
Sophomore 
looks for 
Jed Dooley in one place." 
"inquisitive­
went to the 
ness, a posi­
fair hoping to 
Jeb Dooley tive attitude, 
score a sum­
and an inter­
student 
said Robin Sullivan of the Career Center. "Our students are well thought of throughout the business world. They reflect high quality, high moti­vation and high success." 
Pete Rubinas, a representa­tive from PricewaterhouseCoopers, said he looks for a student with "a good academic record, com­munication skills and capable of an intelligent discussion." 
Arthur 
Anderson rep­
est in the 
company." Students who have researched his company and can ask intel­ligent questions about it also have an advantage, he said. 
New features of the Summer 
and non­

profit orga­nizations. 
The Web site offers informa­tion on participating compa­nies in addition to facilitating on-campus interviews. 
Some students complained that the job fair does not offer a wide enough array of intern­ships. lacking opportunities in fields of science and medicine. 
"It's pretty much all busi­nesses here," said sophomore Katie Koch. "There aren't many jobs for pre-med stu­dents." 
Although the most intern­ships were related to business, other companies such as GE and Camp Sweeney were pre­sent. GE appeals to engineers and Camp Sweeney, a camp for children with diabetes, offers internships popular with pre-med students. 
"There may not be some­thing for everybody, but this is a great opportunity for the career search experience," Svete said. 




f· 
Microsoft Interviews! 
Full-time and Internship positions available If you are interested in applying for a job Submit your resume on Jobtrak by February 3rd! 
Aficrosoft® 
www.microsoft.com/college 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, January 29, 2000 
On May 3, the 56 people who Dlake decisions about your life at this University will be on caD1pus. 
What do you want to tell them? 
Every semester the Student Government pre­pares and presents a report to the University Board of Trustees. 
All are invited to a meeting this 
SUNDAY, JANUARY .1U AT 1:00 PM IN
' 
THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT OFFICE 
to give input on the report topic and to form the report committee. 
Questions? Contact John Osborne or Dan Peate at 1-4553 

Friday, January 28, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

FREE FOOD A_l\/D DRINKS!!!I NO COVER!!!! 
(SMC ID REQUIRED...ALL AGES WELCOM 
S-PO'J'I.SO.'RED BY Sl-lJ'DE]'lTAc-flVrTJE5 OFFfC:E 
CORRECTIONS 
. 
In Monday's Observer, a photo caption said that men's basketball coach Matt Doherty was meeting with the local Boys and Girls Club before Saturday's game. Doherty met with local Big Brother/Big Sister organizations. 

. 
In Thursday's Observer, a graphic said that President Clinton ·s proposed "College Opportunity Tax Cut in~ludes a $10,000 tax cut for middle income families. The plan mcludes a $10,000 tax decuction for middle income familie~. 


The Observer regrets the errors. 
THE FRENCH FILM FESTIVAL 
Movies shown on the following Sundays: 
January 30 The Dreamlife of Angels (La vie revee des anges) 
February 6 Gadjo Dilo 
February 27 Three Colors: Blue (Trois coleurs: bleu) 
March 5 
March 26 
La Nouvelle Vague (The new wave) 
(courtesy of the premier French film specialist Michel Marie) 
My Life in Pink (Ma vie en rose) 
Gad-el-Hak wins research prize 
. Notre Dame prof will spend a year studying in Germany 
By KA TE DOWNEN 
News \Vritt'.1 
Mohamed Gad-el-Hak, Notre Dame professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, was recently awarded the Alexander van Humboldt Prize, Germany's highest research award for senior American scientists and schol­ars in all disciplines. 
"I am very grateful to Germany and the von Humboldt Foundation, to the University of Notre Dame for giving me the means to con­duct my teaching and research, and grateful to all former students, undergradu­ate and graduate, who have been an inspiration to me," Gad-el-Hak said. 
The Alexander van Humboldt Foundation is a non-profit organization that enables highly qualified for­eign scholars to carry out long-term research in Germany. Forty prizes are 
awarded annually. 
The award will allow Gad­el-Hak to spend 12 months in Germany researching fluid mechanics, the study of fluid motions around hard objects sud1 as submarines, airplanes and ships. The long-term goal of this research is to improve land, air and water vehicles through understanding the diagnostics and control of tur­bulence. 
Gad-el-Hak is known world­wide for advancing several n o v e 1 diagnos­
tic tools He received his
"/ am ... grateful to all 
for tur­bachelor's
former students, under­
bulent degree in flows. He graduate and graduate, mechanical engi­h o I d s neering from Ain
who have been 
t W 0 Shams Univ$lrsity
an inspiration to me. " 
patents in Cairo, Egypt. and has He went on to p u b -Mohamed Gad-el-Hak receive his doc­lished torate in fluid
professor of aerospace and 
m o r e mechanics from
mechanical engineering
than 300 articles a n d authored or edited eight books and conference proceedings. He has also presented at 175 invited lectures. 
A member of several profes­sional associations, Gad-e1­Hak currently edits four publi­cations. 
In 1998, he was named as the 14th Freeman Scholar by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the highest honor bestowed by the organization's division of flu­ids engineering. In 1999, he was awarded the Japanese Government Research Award for Foreign Sch~lars. 
Before joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1986, he worked as senior research sci­entist and program manager 
at Flow Research 
in Seattle. 
Johns Hopkins 
University. 

Gad-el-Hak has since taught and conducted research at University of Southern California, University of Virginia, Institute National Polytechnique de Grenoble and Universite do Poitiers. 

VIEWPOINT 
page l 0 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Norre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining H,11. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EurTOR IN CHIEF 
Michelle Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
ASST. MANAGIN<; EDITOR  
Laura Perdle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOit,T EotroR: Colleen Gaughen SroRTS Eun-ca, Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVEl!TISlN<; MANAG£R: Bryan Lur:,. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bree Huelac SYSTEMS AoM!NfSTRATOR: Mich:1el Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushw 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAI'H!CS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAt;ER/GiiNt:RAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX... . ........................ 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.................." .............631-4542 MANAGING EmToRl.Ass'r. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFF!CE.. ...................................... 631-5313 NEWS.........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWP0INT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SP0RTS........................................................631-4543 observer.spons. l@nd.edu 
SCENE......................................................... 631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB AoMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http://obseroer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for 
weather for up•to•the 
weekly student reviews 
minute forecasts 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rares of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search fur 
about The Observer 
to meet the editors and
articles published after 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the adminisrrarion ofeither insricucion. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse adverrisemencs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and deparrmem editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. · 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions [hrough letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact informarion. 
Qumiom regarding Observer policie; should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMichelle Krupn. 
O
THE BSERVER 
Fridn, January 28, 2000 


The most rewarding part of my work with the Concentration in Catholic Social Tradition is the group of students who have entered the program. I have been asked what characteristics. if any, these students share. They are a quite diverse group, running the full gamut of 
Todd Whitmore
majors. Other than the fact that a good number come from 
The Common
western 
Good
Pennsylvania (is it the Allegheny mountain air?), the quality that marks these students is that they view their anticipated professional lives -and their lives as a whole -as vocations. 
By "vocation" I mean something quite simple, though it is not easily carried out. A vocation is a life activity through which a person works out in a deliberate fash­ion her or his relationship with God and neighbor. Most adults have multiple voca­tions, such as work and family. It also includes those activities generally described as "avocations," from needle­point and fly fishing to regular service at a soup kitchen. 
Many Catholics do not undertake the process of attempting to live the social teachings. In John Paul H's words, "It must be asked how many Christians real­ly know and put into practice the princi­ples of the church's social doctrine." The question arises as to why. The answer that stands out most clearly is that many Catholics do not understand their work lives and their lives as a whole as voca­tions; they do not understand themselves as people called. 
The next question, of course, is, "Why don't they?" The answer here is also obviously complex, but two factors are worth discussing. The first is an exces­sively narrow understanding of "religious vocation," limited to members of formally instituted orders. The Second Vatican Council's Dogmatic Constitution on the Church responds tu this understanding by articulating the "Universal Call to Holiness." Through baptism, all members of the Church "are really made holy. Then, too, by God's gifts they must hold on to and complete in their lives this holi­ness which they have received." By "holi­ness." the Council means the activity of "seeking the will of the Father in all things, devoting themselves with all their being to the glory of God and the service of their neighbor." There are different vocations. but all are called: "In the vari­ous types and duties oflife, one and the same holiness is cultivated by all who are moved by the Spirit of God." 
The Council document goes on to state that all who work "should by their human exertions try to perfect themselves, aid their fellow citizens and raise all of soci­ety, and even creation itself. to a better mode of existence." It is clear that the Council does not understand holiness as disconnected from activity in the world. "By this holiness a more human way of life is promoted even in this earthly soci­ety." 
Remnants of the narrow understanding of holiness remain in our everyday lan­guage about the Church. They appear, for instance, in ads that ask, "Do you have a vocation?" The intent is to ask, "Do you have a call to an instituted order?" but what is conveyed is also, "Ifyou do not, then you do not have a vocation. You are doing something else." The person who thinks, "I do not have that specific call­ing," also thinks, "Then I must not have a calling at all." This is largely inadvertent on everyone's part, but the effects are real. "I am not called to that, so therefore I must not have a calling." 
The second factor is what might be called "the Catholic workerization of Catholic social teaching." In the absence of specific knowledge of Catholic social teaching and against the backdrop of a commonly-held, narrow understanding of holiness. laypersons have searched for models, and that of Dorothy Day and the Catholic Worker movement have for many people filled the void. The problem -other than that there are a number of often unacknowledged discontinuities between official teaching and Day's writ­ings -is that the result is again narrow. Across the country in Catholic "Peace and Justice" advocacy centers there are numerous pictures of Day (itself good). but few of. say, the owner of the Malden Mills factory who continued to pay his employees after the factory burned down and rehired them when a new one was built. Persons not called to Day's degree or type of self-abnegation interpret this fact as having no vocation at all. "I am not called to that, so therefore I must not have a calling." Work becomes something one does to earn an acceptable amount of money and Catholic teaching is what one does once a month at the soup kitchen. 
In earlier columns, I have critiqued Michael Novak's departure from Catholic teaching, but he is on target on one thing in particular: the way in which one earns one's money can and ought to be under­stood as a vocation. Still, Novak is exactly right, for instance, that entrepreneurial activity -or, better, rightly ordered entrepreneurial activity -can be "holy" in the way described by the Council. One way to interpret Novak's writings is as an overreaction to the Catholic workeriza­tion of Catholic social teaching. 
One does not need to distort the teach­ing to bring it back to its center of gravity. Such a vocation is not easy, but the ways are there, ready to be at once followed and created. 
Todd Whitmore is an associate profes­sor oftheology. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
DILBERT 
I'M STUCK IN AN ASSIGNMENT THAT HAS NO HOPE OF SUCCEEDING. 

E 
0 
_r,;
0 
i5" .. 
tii 
@ 
~
.. 
!a,
E
., 
(/)
,, 
"' 
5 
~
i,. 
u.. 
E 
0 
0 
t! 
GI 
g 
'0 
si 
I 
~ 
SCOTT ADAMS 
CAN I 
HAVE THE 
flfl.ST BITE 
OF OUR 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"If you do nut tell the truth about yourself, you cannot tell it about other people." 
Virginia Woolf 
author 

-------------· ­
VIEWPOINT 
O
TI-IE Friday, January 28, 2000 BSERVER page 11 


ENDORSEMENT 
Koelsch/Rodarte the way to go 
!laving pride in the Saint Mary's community is a wonder­ful and nxpertod attributo from student body presidential and vice prnsidential candidates. But it's not nnough to win a cam­µaign. No one can contest that the 2000 Board of' (;overnance tickets have unparalleled pride in Saint l\,,lary's College. What the 2000 tickets do not have is an understanding of the issues that need to be addressed at Saint \1ary's. 
Platforms presented Thursday fwening at "Meet the Candidates" included ambitious goals such as a cable station, increased Munch Money and call waiting. But the candidates failed to address specific solu­tions lo imminent campus con­cerns that the 1999-2000 administration strived to bring lo the forefront. And the audi­ence knew it. 
Pressing the candidates about the proposed campus smoking ban. the implementation of a diversity board. and the pres­ence of th<~ controversial Keenan lfovue at {)'Laughlin auditorium. the students in the audience wanted answers. 
And they woren't getting Lhern. 
Minutes before the conclusion of the panel discussion, the Henner/Nagle ticket gave some hope to a disgruntled audience, with vice presidential candidate Michelle Nagle committing to investigating banning the Keenan 
Revue from campus. But aside from Nagle's gumption, answers Lo pressing issues remained superficial. uninformed and off 
I would like to respond to Elizabeth Bauer and Katherine Hoppe's letter on the Jan. 27 on the issue of pre-marital sex. 
Now, I am well aware that I am at a Catholic institution -excuse me. a very Catholic institution -and such evil transgressions against the Church, like that of having sex before mar­riage, is indeed an issue ofgrave con­sequence. However, 1was even more confounded after reading the opinions of two female freshmen. who, in the true spirit of the Catholic Church, con­demned all sex before marriage and even had the audacity to question a [ellow freshman, who gave a differing view on the matter. if he "really belonged here." · 
What I lind most disturbing is not the opinions held on this matter. but the self-assuredness and unflinching righteousness conveved by Ms. Bauer and Ms. Hoppe in their commentaries. I find their opinions only slightly less disturbing. 
To Ms. Bauer, l say that you arc enlitled to your opinion, and by all means. live Lhe life you envision living. But do not judge others because they wish to live differently. Not everyone came to Notre Dame to "continue to grow in faith." You obviously have strong beliefs that tie sex and mar­riage together, but not everyone, even here at Notre Dame, shares those base. While the Henner/Nagle ticket demonstrates experience. knowledge and confidencP in i.ts platform, the pair doesn't reach high enough. 
The KoelscMlodarte ticket targets issues within the com­munity that mied att1mtion. A stronger Women's Hosource Center is a necessity on a col­lege that prides itself on its commitment to women's educa­tion. The pair expresses com­mitment to working with the new Student Divers.ity Ruard and targeting ways to increase enrollment through a student­endorsed application. 
Furthermore. it looks to retain those students through develop­ing concrete traditions over the course of a student's Saint Mary's experience. The ticket shows a commitment to issues, something that was lacking in every other 2000 ticket. 
While the ticket contains its share of loftv dreams and uncertain plans, it does have direction. In seeing where growth is needed in areas on campus. Koelsch/Rodarte demonstrate an understanding that the student body wants solutions, not merely a commit­ment to pride from its student leaders. While the pair clearly has pride for Saint Mary's, by tackling campus issues, the tick­et moves beyond simply loving Saint Mary's to loving it enough to want to do something. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Relax more, stress less 
I have walked into the dining hall to find life. They truly Carpe the old Diem. I vowed to today's sweet-n-sour chicken was yesterday's integrate this philosophy in my daily routine, normal chicken and will become tomorrow's and it has made all the difference. I purposefully macaroni surprise. How do you get oily spaghet­take inefficient walks from Debartolo to Knott ti noodles, rubber hamburgers and eternally dry that lead me past the Dome, into the Grotto and rice? I will never be able to comprehend the by the lakes. I ride my bike through large piles workload at Notre Dame. Do the professor hold of leaves, and I take naps smack dab in the mid­a conference in the fall and say, "Okay every­dle of the quad. Surround yourself with positive body, we've aU decided the second week in people and stay away from the obnoxious. Eat November is a great time to have tests, papers, at the dining hall and try to appreciate the fact midterms, presentations and labs due." that you did not have to make the food When it rains. it's a flashflood at ---~-yourself {anyone who has not lived Notre Dame and I am rarely on their own cannot compre­wearing water wings. hend this). The timing and 
Notre Dame students magnitude of the work­
thrive on stress and load here is intense. 
they actually enjoy Grit your teeth, 
them better. And rr. ~, · r what interests to stress over work 
..-----::::: you. You blink, and does not get it fin­' ished faster. To quote ydu~~:~ei:;;;;!:gand
--i~-,,,-·k~ 
Bobby Brown at a fresh-, ~/ hugging your friends man pep rally, "Relax, . goodbye. Relate, Release. Because tomor­I'll end with a quote from row you better respect." Relax, take a "The Green Fool" by Patrick deep breath, hold it, then blow it into your Kavanaugh, "I got nothing for my trouble except friend's face (never underestimate the power of joy. But though the coin ofjoy isn't legal tender humor). Re1ate and realize that everyone in the mundane shops of the world, it is in the around you is busy too. Release, you are lands of imagination, and I today, jingling my approximately a 5-10 minute walk from some purse of memory, know I am rich." thought-provoking spot on campus. Go there, 
sit, think and resist the urge to pull out your Brick Maier highlighter and coursepacket. Resident Assistant In my year abroad in Ireland, my Irish friends Knott Hall taught me to embrace the spontaneous things in December 5, 1999 
stressing others out. Stress is rmtirely and utterly unpro­ductive. The only thing it is guaranteed to do is put holes in your stom­ach. To stress over obnoxious people does not make them cool. To stress about bad foods doesn't make 
do not think it is your place to judge others. 
Lastly, you make two very interest­ing, coming from your perspective, claims. You say that "without the com­mitment of marriage, sex will leave you totally exposed and emotionally deserted, no matter how much 'love' you have." But I ask you, how in the world do you know this? Did you read it in a book? Because without actually having had sex, I don't see how you can pass judgments on how it will affect a person. And likewise, you fol­low that quote with another similar to it, saying how warm and comforting sex within marriage is. Again, I do not understand how you can make such unqualified and speculative statements with no experience to back them up. 
I am not trying to undermine either of your personal opinions. I'm just try­ing to point out that not everybody shares these opinions with you, and that does not make them bad people. Perhaps what thi'l University really needs is to move away from conserva­tive and judgmental doctrines and practice the art of understanding and acceptance a little more. 
Patrick Kelly 
Sophomore 
Keenan Hall 
Janua,y 27, 2000 
work as much as necessary and study to learn, 
not ·to get an A. The one usual­ly follows the 

~ 
other. Notre Dame is doing an
~/2~~,/,'_J"·,r:,,-~
::;,'/".'.'. ,.,.,,, , excellent job training us to succeed in life. 
"'S}, ) Study hard, ~ enjoy your time . , with f~iends and
7-2 1 /':,?~.,,
•• '( 1/ make time for 
Don't judge the way others live 
beliefs with you. So please do not con­demn Jeff Eyerman for simply expressing his side of the issue. After all, I myself don't know many people who actually consider that "our bodies are not ours to give or take." I honestly believed that mode ofthinking van­ished with the Puritans. And most importantly, you say that here at Notre Dame, "we are many things and have many identities." So I ask only for you to let those with different identities and beliefs share them in a friendly environment. Asking them whether or not they belong here is rather elitist and not very Christian at all. 
As for Ms. Hoppe, I would give the same advice. You also make many assumptions and prejudgments in your article that I do not agree with. For example, you posit that the only rea­son people may not believe that sex is sacred is because they haven't thought it through. Well, I hate to burst your bubble. but a lot of people have thought that very question through and have reached a different conclu­sion. Also, you quote the Bible quite neatly and efficiently, but living simply by doctrines and dogmas eliminates free thought. which is where true progress is made in society. 
You say those who have sex before marriage have sinned against God. But I believe that that is for God to decide, and unless you are speaking for Him, I 
Last chance! 
Get your columns in TODAY. 
Or forever hold your peace. 
1-5303. 

w E 
ceneN D 
page 12 Friday, January 27, 2000 
,. 
festival has become a hot com­students might expect. It is dif­"Comparing it to the other film about the penis ("A Woman's
• Filmmakers get 
modity around campus since its ferent. It is course material. It festivals of the past. these films Guide to the Penis"). but therefrank about sex inception in 1990, this 2000 was part of a grade. It was are more daring, more provoca­are films about the process byand penises at show comes with a snag. a point approved by faculty members. tive, they're certainly more pol­which people eat meat ("Hack 
of interest, a selling point. And most importantly. it is only a ished technically," said Mandell. and Grind"), young love at the
2000 Student 
And it is sex. minor part of what makes up lhe "And I think that's something roller skating rink
Film Festival Sex is what makes the world 15 films. that we've seen as the years (" Rollerskating Romance") and turn. It is what teenagers long Really, the variety of films pre­have gone, as the film program death and violence in cinema for as they walk the halls of their sented is what the film festival is has progressed. The maturity of ("The Dying Soldier"). 
By MIKE VANEGAS 
high sr.hools. It is what college all about. the students has gotten better. Claire Connelly, who with Sam 
Scene Editor 
students revel in as thev become "It's like going to a pot-luck and the quality of the filmmaking Dobie made "The Dying Soldier" mature members of the adult dinner or a buffet, where every­has gotten better. This one, with­and "Rewriting Hislory: The Imagine this scene from the world. It is what 20-somethings body brings something to the out question, is the most Conquest of AIDS," noted a mea­fictional film. "The Making of the transform into love as they settle table that's a little bit different provocative." sure of epiphany experienced by
Notre Dame Student Film 
into permanent lives. It is what and unique," said Ted Mandell, Jill Godmilow, FTT professor tackling some more serious Festival 2000": 
middle-aged people forget about. associate professional specialist and supervising faculty. adds issues. And it is what the elderly in the FTT department and that the students themselves "We were talking to a lot of 
Student filmmaker: {With 
remember with fond, Viagra­supervising faculty on many stu­have taken the student film AIDS patients, and it became 
impatience) Drop your shorts. 
induced splendor. dent films. "I think that's what genre to a new level this year. way more personal than And move your penis to the left. 
So this weekend. the folks in makes the film festival a lot of "They take on the world," thought," she said. "I realized No, to the right. 
the Film. Television, and Theater fun is lhat you get different stu­Godmilow said. "We're moving I'm a very naive Notre Dame stu­department present 15 student dents from different halls on in that direction anyways. but dent." 
Student actor: !With confident 
films, all with their own mes­campus, and off campus, who they're not parodies or stuff Disregarding the sexual nature reserve) Okie-dokie. (Drops sage. all with their own perspec­have different views about differ­that's on TV, which is verv often of some of the other films, films 
shorts. moves penis _{1.rsl lo left. tives concerning life in this crazy ent subjects. It's a mixed bag. what students make ... sm.art ass like Connelly's and Dobie's also then to right). 
world. And with the noticeable You might be watching a. serious stuff. They're very original. push the envelope in terms of stamp on all of the festival's ftlm about the penis, and then They're taking on tough sub­what the audience expects from Shocking'? Yes. advertisements. the one that you'd be watching a music jects." student films. and partir.ularly
Wrong? Some will say yes, but 
screams "Strong Sexual Content video." A look at the student films to student films at Notre Dame. 
in the free spirit of ar.ademia. the (No one un der 17 admitted)." Aside from the diversity the be shown indeed forces one to The NC-17 rating, as Mandflll answer must be no. 
sex will be on the minds of many festival brings to the table. accept their originality. When it r.alls it, takes into consideration 
This is the type of question 
att1rnding the event. another special part of the festi­comes down to it, the film festi­the all-around adult nature of many will ask upon viewing of But here's the catch. The val is the level of accomplish­val is geared as a forum for the the topics addressed in all the this weekend's installment of the "Strong Sexual Content" involved ment surrounding this year's thoughts of students to be on dis­student films. 
stu<lenl film festival. Though the in the festival is not what many films. play. Not only is there a film But as anyone will admit, the 
"Comparing it to the other film festivals ofthe past, these films are more daring, more provocative, they're certainly more polished technically .. " 

Ted Mandell professor 


w E 
ceneN D 
Friday, January 27, 2000 page 13 
running the film: fest 
Student Film Festival 
Fifteen films by students in the FTT department 

... The Snite Museum ... ~Fri., Sat., Mon., 7:30 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. ­-Tickets are $3, only available in advance at Lafortune ,.. 
Films  
. LATE ONE NIGHT  . Gooo TIMES  
. STRONG SEXUAL CONTENT  . SEARCH, PAUSE, PLAY, RECORD  
. AWOMAN'S GUIDE TO THE PENIS  . THE DYING SOLDIER  
. PEACE, DEMOCRACY & THE 20TH CENTURY:  . UNTITLED: EARLY POEM  
GOV 498  . HACK AND GRIND  
. FREE: SHORT-HAIRED, MALE, NEUTERED  . REWRITING HISTORY: THE CONQUEST OF  


. ROLLERSKATING ROMANCE 
most provocative film ol' the festi­val is probably "A Woman's Guide to the Penis." And the reasons for this are obvious. 
"The point of the film is to take something that is generally taboo and c:ontroversial and to put it onto lhe screen in such a way that by the end of thr\ rilm it is 
"That's not a ploy. It's not an advertising ploy," said Mandell. '"It's just a warning." 
?erhaps. even, it will change the stigma attached to the film festival as a festival of laughs. 
"There's the Notre Dame film festival problem: that all everyone wants to do is laugh," said Tony Fonseca, who made "Free: Short­haired, Male, Neutered" with Jonathan Adler. Fonseca was a bit cvnical about the audience's reac­tion to the various films but acknowledged his own thoughts concerning student filmmaking: 'Tm not Steven Spielberg. I don't care if my film makes money. It's just cool." 
But while Fonseca admits to being ambivalent toward his audi­ence. King submits to the fact that student filmmakers cannot escape all having to do with the Notre Dame community. 
"The fact remains that they're all made at Notre Dame, and that can have an effect on it," he said. "It was made totally for Notre Dame students and made totally under the Notre Dame umbrella." 
Still, the film festival is the best opportunity to allow these film students to show off their work. And by doing this, they are able to offer the blood, sweat and tears they let out throughout the last two semesters. 
"What our students find out is they learn a lot about themselves in the process of making these films," said Mandell. 

"You get to look at, for the 
not that way." year." she said Malt King, first time in your life. 20 or said. "If a who made the group of stu­
30 penises.
film with dents went Meredith Watt. and got a 
Jill Godmilow
"To put it on bunch of porn the screen and professor films and 
to have people just look and listrn. and to by the end of the film to just bP OK with it." 
I Ir latr,r statrd that ··unless God do(\S sonwthing. LhcsP things aren't going to change." 
Of rnurse. the questions remains: Will audiences be offend­ed? 
"When that first shot comes on the screen. there is going to be a reaction," said King. "But by the tim!" the last few shots arc on the screen. people will be expecting them and used to them. That was the point." But King adds that the aforementioned warning should allay any real offense from the audience. 
Godmilow added that "you get to look at, for the first time in your life. 20 or 30 penises. They're not connected to people. Nobody's showing off. But there were that many male students that agreed to be lilmcd. 
"It was a chance to sec some­thing that has been so veiled. So it's not sexy. It has nothing to do with sex. But it's going to appear to some people as an outrageous violation." 
King also realized the subject of the lilm. the penis, is something America musl learn to accept. 
"When "Boogie Nights' came out, the only thing people who didn't see the movie knew about was that you got to see a penis in it," he said. Certainly. for those audience membns at the Snite this weekend. a deeper under­standing of the penis will be attainea. 
Though King asserts people shouldn't be offended by the film. the fart remains that the the film is being shown on a relatively con-
AIDS 
and others ... 
servative campus where censor­ship has found a home in various media organizations. Godmilow addressed this issue in terms of the film festival's history. 
''I've been here eight years, and I've never heard from the admin­istration, and I don't expect to hear from them this 
showed them 
at Cushing, they'd come in heavy. But I respect that they know better than to try and determine or limit the content of especially something that professors are involved in. 
"They are able to really run stu­dents' lives and program students lives." Godmilow continued. "But if they want to be the great univer­sity that they desperately want to be -the University of Notre Dame sees itself as competitive with Yale, Princeton. Harvard. or wants to be competitive -it cannot be caught in censoring professors. 
"So I don't expect any trouble. That doesn't mean that somebody isn't going to leave the theater or Right Reason isn't going to go and see the show and write a letter to Malloy an_d say, 'This is outra­geous. This is a Catholic universi­ty. There were penises 

there."' Another important development  "My films have never been shown to more than three or four people. 1 am a little  "These films are incredibly personal pro­jects. It takes  
concerning  nervous.  a  lot of guts  
Lhe  NC-17  and  a  lot of  
restriction being placed on the festival  Claire Connelly student filmmaker  self-sacrifice: a) to pull it off, and b) to  
is Lhe efiect it  be willing to  
will have on  show  it  in  

attendance. In the past, there front of 2,000 people." hasn't been any trouble selling Essentially, it is the exchange of tickets. In fact. a second Monday content between the filmmakers screening was added this year to and the audience that makes or accommodate the demand for breaks the festival. And that can tickets. cause for a nerve-wracking expe­
The label "Strong Sexual rience on the part of the filmmak­Content" might make demand er. even stronger. But Mandell and "My films have never been Godmilow urge the community to shown to more than three or four understand the meaning of the people," said Connelly. "I am a lit­restriction. tle nervous." 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, January 28, 2000 
FENCING 
Arch-rival Penn St. arrives to take on fencers 
By MIIff CONNOLLY 
Associate Sports Edicor 
Every good rivalry inspires a bit of dislike between the two teams. 
The Notre Dame and Penn State fencing rivalry inspires a lot more than dislike. 
"I don't know about the rivalry very much except for last year, but apparently we hate them," junior sabrnwoman Katie Flanagan said. "We not only want to win, we want to whip them and completely crush them especially at our home meet." 
The animositv between the two squads is eaS)' to understand. For the past four years. Penn State has finished first while l'\otre Dame has taken second in the NCAA championships. Every year the Irish seem ready to finally knock the Nittany Lions from the top of the mountain, but every year the Lions retain the title. 
According to head coach Yves Auriol. the men's squad has an excellent chance of defeating Penn State in this weekend's dual meet. 
"On the men's side, we lost to Penn State by one point last year at Penn State, 14-13 [in the reg­ular season dual meet]," Auriol said. "It was very close last year with a team that wasn't as good as we are this year. If they fence the way they are capable of they can defeat Penn State. If we do not defeat Penn State, I will be very disappointed." 
The men's team started the season slowly at NYU last week­end. Losing to St. John's and Stanford, Notre Dame stumbled to a 2-2 start. 
The sabre squad's perfor­mance was especially disap­pointing. Featuring sophomore Gabor Szelle, last year's NCAA sabre runner-up, and nationally ranked fencers like sophomore Andre Crompton, junior Andre Bednarski and freshman Matt Fabricant, the squad was thought to be the No. 1 sabre squad in the country. After los­ing to St. John's 6-3, however, the Irish must regroup this weekend against the Nittany Lions. 
"I want to make sure that they know that we went to New York as the No. 1 sabre team and that they fell flat on their face because they might have been overconfident," Auriol said. "I want to make sure that doesn't happen again this weekend. 
"They don't have any excuse now," he continued. "They can make the finals in national and international tournaments. Now it is time to fence better here. They won't get any sympathy from the coaches if they don't fence well. but I think they will fence better this weekend." 
The men's epee team is anoth­er squad that struggled against St. John's last weekend. With No. 1-ranked junior epeeist Jan Viviani added to l 999 NCAA qualifiers James Gaither and Brian Casas, the epee squad was expected to be one of the leaders of this year's team. Aller falling to St. John's 7-2, the squad must improve against a Nittany Lion squad that features Brendan Baby who went 3-0 against the Irish last year. 
The men's foil team is young -featuring two freshmen and a sophomore as starters -but held its own last weekend. Freshmen Ozren Debic and forest \Vallon tallied seven and eight wins respectively. 
Auriol has lower expectations for the women's team this week­end. 
"It would be a surprise for me if we beat Penn State on the women's side," he said. "Penn State is very strong." 
While Penn State is a powerful team, I\Jotre Dame proved last weekend it can compete with the very best. The women went 4-0 against top competition like St. John's -one of the favorites for the 2000 national title. 
The women rely on four fresh­men to pick up key victories. At epee, Meagan Call and Anna Carnick are 1-2 in wins so far. Cali's nine wins have caught Auriol's attention. 
"Our freshmen are very talent­ed," he said. "l was very impressed with Meagan Call in epee. She is not really an epee yet. She is still learning the weapon. She is a tough competi­tor and she continuing to improve." 
At sabre, freshman Natalia Mazur leads the team with 10 wins with juniors Carrianne McCullough and Flanagan right behind her with nine and eight wins, respectively. 

The foil team features fresh­man Liza Boutsikaris, who is second on the squad with seven wins, and senior Magda Krol, the most experienced female fencer. 
Krol, an epee All-American for three years running, led the squad with 10 wins in her first foil bouts since her sophomore year. Krol scored two key wins over 1999 All-American Susan Jennings and 1999 National Champion Monique de Bruin. 
Krol faces another stiff test this weekend from Penn State junior Charlotte Walker. Like Krol, Walker switched to foil this year after winning All-American let­ters the past two years at epee. 
"I am excited," Krol said. "This is going to be a test for me but it is going to be good. I think it will be interesting to see how two former epeeists will fence against each other in foil. I am definitely excited to fence against Charlotte Walker and give it my best shot and hopefully win." 
The men take to the strips in their first home meet of the year Saturday in the north dome of the JACC while the women fence Sunday. 
OBSERVER 
is accepting applications for: 
2000-2001 
Editor in Chief 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and possess solid management, pub­lic relations and communications skills. Previous newspa­per experience and a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume and five-page state­ment to Michelle Krupa by 5 p.m., Monday, Jan. 31, 2000. For additional information about the position or application process, contact Michelle Krupa at 631-4542, or stop by the office in the basement ofSouth Dining Hall. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Oining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
My house burnt down last Tuesday.Late last week, the Fire Dept. informed me that my dog {dalmation) must have escaped the fire.I am offering a $1000.00 reward for her return. Her name is Scarlet and the top half of her tail is black. Call Chris 246-1338. 
Please find this man's dog! 
LOSE WEIGHT! EAT WHAT YOU LIKE! WEIGHT WATCHERS BRAND­NEW ON CAMPUS PROGRAM Your super-convenient dream diet from a name you trust is ,;oming to Notre Dame and St. Mary's! No complicated counting! Eat pizza, cake-any food you crave and lose weight. Get live info-packed book­lets, tons of super-easy recipes, and specialized on line support from trained Weight Watchers staff. You pay just $79 for 7 weeks. Start the millennium right-register today over the phone: 1-800-651-6000. Visa, MasterCard and Discover accepted. 
LOST & FOUND 
My house burnt down last Tuesday.Late last week the Fire Dept. informed me that my dog (dalmatian) must have escaped the fire.I am offering a $1000.00 reward for her return. Her name is Scarlet and the top half of her tail is solid black. Call Chris 246-1338. 
WANTED 
SITTER WANTED Tues and Thurs, 12:30 -6:15 On Campus, at Univ. Vig. Apts. Chns or Shannon: 634-4751 
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED The Early Childhood Development Center, located at Sairit Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame, is looking for volunteers who enjoy young children If you would be interested in spending 2 hours a week reading children's books, building with blocks, and singing songs with children, please call Amy Moskalick at 284-4693 (ECDC-SMC) or Thayer Kramer at 631-3344 (ECDC-ND). Please join our fun filled days. 
Work for an exciting College focused company at your school! Looking for motivated individuals with strong leadership, entrepre­neurial and business skills. Tech skills not required. Great experi­ence, pay and options! Contact info@uconnections.com. 
Clubs • Student Groups 
Student organizations earn $1,000­$2,000 with the easy campus­lundraiser.com three hour fundrais­ing event. No sales required. Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so call todayl Contact campus­fundraiser.com, (888) 923-3238, or visit www.campusfundraiser.com. 
Professor needs 3 hrs. help on small farm 1 mile from N.D. 2TT-5328 
Email Ford.1@nd.edu 
FOR RENT 
6 BDRM HOME.FURN.AVAIL NOW.$150. PER. 272-6306 
6 BEDRM. '00-'01 $1200/mo. 273-0482 
2-6 BDRM HOMES.'00-'01 272­6306 
3 bedroom duplex appliances,W/D 1 mile from campus 273-8332 
ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE AND CLOSE http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ email:mmmrentals@aol.com 232-2595 
Available Fall 2000. 4-6 Student Rental House ... 2 1/2 baths: lots of space; Parking Lot and Laundry ... Dave 291-2209 
Available Summer and Fall 2000. 4-student rental house ... Security System, Air Conditioned, Laundry .. Dave • 291-2209 
NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND EXCELLENT NEIGHBORHOOD CLOSE 2773097 
B'NB REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 1 )925 N. Francis. 5-bedroom, 1 • bath, newly refinished wood floors, $1200/month. 2)520 Corby, 4-bedroom, 1-bath. $1000/month. Call Bill at 675-0776. 
FOR SALE 
Beautiful brass bed, queen size, 
with orthopedic mattress and . deluxe frame. New, never used, still 
in plastic. $235 
219-862-2082 
96 Ford Ranger XL. 54k mi., CD player, man. trans. $7000, obo. Call Tony, 273-5319. 
New Phone Card 
886 mins. $20 
258-4805 or 243-9361 
'93 FORD ESCORT GT. 
5-SPD, A/C. EXC. COND. 
73K. 
$4100 o/b/o 616-683-6705. 
1991 Honda accord EX 
88,000 miles $6000 
219-273-8483 
TICKETS 
NEED ONE TICKET FOR FEB. 12 UCONN GAME. Please call Chad at x3633 if you have an extra ticket. 
PERSONAL 
www.thecommentator.com 
WILL RODNEY RODENT SEE HIS SHADOW? 
My house burnt down last Tuesday.Late last week, the Fire Dept. informed me that my dog (dalmatian) must have escaped the fire. I am offering a $1000.00 reward for her return. Her name is Scarlet and the top half of her tail is black. Call Chris 246-1338. 
We're all a little mad. And those who think they're not, are madder than the rest -The SinNott 
ln•other words, the inmates are run­ning the asylum. 
It was really funny when Tom Brokaw identified Strom Thurmond as the "oldest living member of the Senate." As opposed to all the dead ones. 
Lauren, you are my angel. 
Kel, thanks for being an awesome friend. 
NEMATODE! 

f 
I 
page 15

Friday, January 29, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
NETWORK 

A WELCOMING PLACE FOR RESPECTFUL DIALOGUE 
Sponsored by the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
Karen Baer-Barkley Sr. Corrine Etheridpe, IHM Office of Alcohol and Rector, Farley Hal Drug Education 
Katy Fallon Sr. Kathleen Bea7(' SSJ Resident Assistant, Rector, Lyons Hal Badin Hall 
Sallie Baumgartner Ann Firth 
Resident Assistant, Law School Pangborn Hall 
Gina Firth Sr. Sue Bruno, OSF Office of Alcohol and Rector, Pasquerilla Drug Education West Hall 
Kristin Gerber Fr. David Burrell, CSC Resident Assistant, Welsh Professor of Philosophy Family Half and Theology 
Erik Goldschmidt Fr. Michael Connors, CSC Assistant Rector, Director, Master of Divinity St. Edwards Hall Program 
Sr. M.L Gude, CSC Brian Coughlin Office of Student Affairs Rector, Carroll Hall 
Helen Gutierres Sue Cunningham Office of Alcohol and Center for Social Concerns Drug Education 
Sr. Patricia Dearbaugh, !HM Ruthann Heberle 
Rector, Cavanaugh Hall University Health Services 
John Dillon William Hedi 
Campus Ministry Campus Security 
Sylvia Dillon Alyssa Hellrud7i 
Campus Ministry Student, Stan ing Committee 
on Gay and Lesbian Shannon Dolan Student Needs Resident Assistant, Breen-Phillips Hall Kelly Jansky 
Resident Assistant, Michael Downs Pangborn Hall Resident Assistant, Morrissey Hall Jeanne Johnson 
Residence Life 
Fr. Poul Doyle, CSC Rector, Dillon Hall Scott Kochmorik Student Residences 
Fr. Tom Doyle, CSC Rector, Keough Hall Colleen Knight Santoni Center for Social Concerns 
Heidi Eppich Resident Assistant, Fr. Jim Lies, CSC Pangborn Hall Rector, Zahm Hall 
The members of the Notre Dame 
community listed below are participants 
in the NETWORK initiative sponsored by the 
Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian 
Student Needs. They are prepared to offer 
awelcoming place of conversation about 
issues related to sexual orientation. If you 
have questions about your own sexual 
orientation, or have questions concerning 
the experience of afriend or family member, 
look for the NETWORK symbol. 
Justin Liu Mark Ross 
Resident Assistant, Assistant Rector, Zahm Hall Zahm Hall 
Kathleen Maas Weigert Michael Sacco 
Cenfer for Social Concerns Residence Life 
Robin MacRorie Susan St. Ville 
Adjunct Instructor, Gender Studies Program University Writing Program 
Frank Santoni Br. Jerome Meyer, CSC Campus Ministry Rector, Knott Hall 
Tami Schmitz Kevin Monahan Campus Ministry First Year of Studies 
Fr. David Schiedler, CSC Sr. Mary Ann Mueninghoff, OP Rector, St. Edward's Hall Rector, Pasquerilla East 
Fr. Bill Seetch, CSC Michaela Murray-Nolan Rector, Morrissey Hall Student, Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Jeff Shoup Student Needs Residence life 
Daniel J. Myers Sr. Pat Thomas, OP 
Assistant Professor, Sociology Rector, Walsh Hall 
Jessica Neff Annie Thompson 
Resident Assistant, University Health Services Pangborn Hall 
Eugene Ulrich Sean O'Brien Professor of Theology Assistant Rector, Carroll Halt 
Tracy Van Meter Kristen O'Connor Assistant Rector, Assistant Rector, Lewis Hall Pasquerifla West 
Jim Paladino Fr. Richard Warner, CSC 
Center for Social Cocerns Director of Campus Ministry Counselor to the President 
Ben Peters Assistant Redor, Keough Hall Laura Weiler 
Assistant Rector, Breit Peterson Lewis Hall Student, Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Ryan Willerton Student Needs Student Activities 
Ava Preacher Priscilla Wong 
Assistant Dean, Arts and Leffers Campus Ministry 
Aliceson Robinson 
Resident Assistant, Breen-Phillips Hall 
I 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS friday, January 28, 2000 

MIKE HARRIS/The Observer 
Junior left wing Jay Kopischke moves the puck past an oppo­nent in a recent game. Notre Dame travels to take on Alaska­Fairbanks this evening. 
Hockey 
continued from page 24 
him four p(}i.nts, just the fourth time a Notre Dame player has done that this season. 
Dusbabck was able to better Carlson's four points, by recording six in the series against Western \1ichigan, and currently leads Notre Dame in points. The senior rightwing contributed a goal and two assists in each of the games. lie was credited with the first Irish goal in the opener when tho puck glanced off of his leg and into the net, and then found the net in game two with a slap shot from the blue line. 
"Carlson was the best player on the ice," [rish head coach Uave Poulin stated after last Friday's comeback win. "We had a lot of good players, but he was the best." 
The Irish coach also had some good things to say about 
WANT TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF A CHILD THIS SUMMER? 
COME FORA JOB INTERVIEW TO WORKAT: 
CAMP SWEENEY 
A RESIDENTL4L SPORTS CAl'.f PINNORTH TEXAS FOR CHILDREN WITH DIABETES 
INTERVIEWS FRIDAY, JANUARY 28th FROM 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM IN THE LaFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
Camp Sweeney is an equal opportunity employer. 
Dusbabek's play after the series was over. 
"Dusbabck played so well," Poulin said. "It was nice to see him get one right away after all the effort he had put in." 
Another player that will play a key role in the series is goal­tender Tony Zasowski. After his strong performance last weekend, he was named CCHA Rookie of the Week. Ile won the award for the second time this year after stopping 41 shots and allowing only one even-strength goal against Western Michigan. Ile ranks fourth in the CCfIA in goals-
against average (2.41). He also ranks fifth in the confer­ence with a .908 save percent­age. At his current pace, Zasowski will break Irish records for net-minders in both categories (Forrest Karr with 2.58 in 1998-99 and Mark Kronholm with .907 in 1970-71 ). 
Zasowski will face top-scor­ers from the Nanooks in senior lef'twing Nathan Roche!Pau and sophomore forward Bobby Andrews. UAF also returns 20 of 26 letter winners from its team that finished in eighth place in the CCIIA last season. 
Interested in Doing Research at a World-class Research Institute? 
Undt:rgraduate Summer Internship 
The Environmental Research Institute, ajoint activity ofNotre Dame & Argonne National Laboratory (ANL), in collaboration with the Center for Environmental Science & Technology, will award up to two Summer 2000 internship at ANL in Argonne, IL -with follow-up campus research appointment in the Fall. Stipend, room & board are provided for the IO-week pro­gram. 
Student applicants should have research interests in an environ­mentally-related discipline (any.field ofstudy) concerned with or likely to contribute to the understanding, assessment, or improve­ment ofthe environment. Applicants must be US citizens or per­manent residents, enrolled at Notre Dame, have completed their Junior Year by May 2000, and be registered to return in the Fall of2000. 
For more details, contact the Center for Environmental Science & Technology: 152A Fitzpatrick Hall, 631-8376. Applicants will be required to complete an application. 
Welcome Back Party For Student Government All are Welcome 
Come Find Something to Do Opportunities on a Number of Issues For More Info: 631­9888 
Where: Student Government Office 203 Lafortume When: Monday, January 31, 2000 Time: 
r 
8:00-9:30 PM "Bringing It All Together." 

, 
_______________..________.____
. . . 
foday, January 29, 2000 7he Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 ' 

t\1.1. t\111:S IN\fITl:11 TII !\TTl:NII! 

1:111:I: 1:11111)! 
1:111:1: SCll)t\! NCI C~Cl\fl:11 C~llt\11(11:! 
SPONSORED BY THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE 
-------------------~~~­
,---------.-:--·. 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, January 28, 2000 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Teams travel to Bloomington for dual meet 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN A.s.isram Sporrs Editor 
The track and field teams renew an in-state rivalry with Indiana today, hoping to bring home a double victory from the dual meet in Bloomington. 
Lal:it season, Indiana edged Notre Dame 84-78 on the men's side while the Notre Dame women pulled out a close victorv 82-78. 
"Hopefully we can win both the men and the women," field events coach Scott Winsor said. "They're going to be tough. We have our events that we should win; they have their events that they should win. I would say they have more depth than we do, but we run into that a lot." 
The Irish raced well in their season-opening quadrangular meet last weekend, with the men capturing first place and the women taking second. 
Field events were one of the strengths for the Irish last weekend, an area they must do well in to defeat Indiana. 
"On the women's side, Indiana is very tough in the throws and very deep in the throws, so we're going to struggle there," Winsor said. "We need to win in the long jump and we need to win in the high jump. In the throws, the shot and the weight, we've got to get what we can. Dore DeBartolo needs to pick off one, maybe two, of their throwers." 
Winsor also keyed on the 
importance of freshman Jamie Volkmer's performance in the pole vault and triple jump. Volkmer set school records in both events last weekend, but must be in top form to capture victories at Indiana. 
Fellow freshman Tameisha King broke another school record in the long jump in the home opener, and plans to jump farther tonight. 
'Tm trying to qualify for the NCAAs," King said. "The stan­dard is 20 feet, and since that's only six inches away, that's what I'm trying to do. I'm also trying to set a PR [per­sonal record]." 
Senior long jumper and sprinter Marshaun West pro­vides a solid foundation for the men's team. West met provi­sional standards for the !'JCM championships last weekend, and should be a shoo-in for victory at [ndiana. Senior Matt Thompson is an athlete the Irish need a win from in the weight throw. 
But it will likely be the results of the pole vault and shot put that make the differ­ence. Freshman pole vaulter Nathan Cahill hopes his first­meet jitters have worn off. 
"I was a little nervous in the beginning because in high school, I always knew that I could go out there and just beat everybody," Cahill said, "Whereas in college, there are guys there who can just kick your butt. I was hoping on get­ting 16 feet, and I only got 15­foo t-six, but I wasn't disap­pointed. This weekend, I'm aiming once again for 16 feet. There's going to be some real­ly strong competition with my fellow vaulters and I since we're all Uumpingl around the same height." 
The distance runners began their year by having two NCAA provisional marks coming from Phil Mishka in the 800-meter run and Luke Watson in the 3000-meter run. 
"It will be my first mile race of the season, and we just want to score points for the team in that one," Watson said. "We're a good team this year and we've been compar­ing ourselves against other teams in the Big East, not nec­essarily directly against Indiana. If everyone performs the way they did last week or better, then we should come away with a victory." 
The women will add All­American Alison Klemmer to the mix this weekend, as she will compete in the 3000­meter run for her first race of the season. 
"She's ready to run fast," distance coach Tim Connelly said. "I know that just off of her training. It should be a good race." 
Chrissie Kuenster and Nicole LaSelle will join Klemmer to fill out the 3000-meter race. 
Patty Rice and Jennifer Handley will represent Notre Dame in the mile. In the 800­meter race, Connelly will run last weekend's champion Leanne Brady, Rice and Kelly Tutko. 
Top sprinters include Chris 
Cochran and Liz Grow, who last weekend. won the 60-meter dash and King and West are also key the 200-meter dash for the crossovers from the long jump 
men and womon, respectively, to the sprints. 
DO SOMlETHIN(G 
DIFFERENT 
THIS SUMMER~ 

DO AN SSP! 
This summer is your chance to learn and earn 3 credits working with the underserved. ~ 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS 2000 
• 
8 WEEKS OF SERVICE LEARNING 

• 
$1700 TUITION SCHOLARSHIP 

• 
VALUABLE ALUMNI CONTACTS 

• 
POSSIBILITY OF EARNING $1100 THROUGH AMERICORP 

• 
3 CREDITS THEOLOGY, WITH POSSIBLE CROSS-LISTS 

• 
OvER 200 SITES ACROSS THE U.S. 


**DEADLINE FOR APPLICATIONS**: 
-~' /\Ssor: . 
JANUARY 28TH (FRIDAY)
~·,tt'-'
:; ~­
-< :,0 
CENTER FOR SocIAL CONCERNS
CoMMLINilY SERVK'E. 


SATURDAY. JAnUARY 19 11 noon nD EXPRESS 
ADVANCESIGN-UP RlOUIRID! 
'l'IIE £DW'IIDIVII 
The Annual Campus-Wide Billiards Tournament will be held on Saturday, January 29. All ND students are eligible to participate in the tournament which will decide who will represent the student body at the ACUI Regional Tournament, to be held at IU-Bloomington in late February. 
* Tournament space will be limiled--You are encouraged to sign up early! 
• 
Sign ups will be held in ND Express (lower level, Lafortune Student Center) from January 24-28. There is no entry fee to participate! 

• 
Sign ups will be cut-offat 11 :59 PM on Friday, January 28. 

• 
The tournament bracket will be created by random drawing at noon on Saturday, January 29. 


*AU tournament rounds will be single-elimination. 
*First round will be race to three games (first one to win three games advances to the next round). 
• Subsequent rounds will be race to five games (first one to win five games advances to the next round). 
The Champion will win a $100 gift certificate to the Notre Dame Bookstore and will be eligible for an all-expense (registration, transportation and lodging) paid trip to compete at the ACUI Regional Championship held at IU-Bloomington in February. The runner-up will also be offered an opportunity to attend the ACUI Regional Championship at no charge. 
page 19

Friday, January 28, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS 
SWIMMING 
Teams prepare for Big East with weekend competition 
. Undefeated women take on 8th-ranked Wolverines 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Associate Sports Editor 
The 2:3.-d-ranknd Notre Dame 
women's swimming and diving 
tnam puts its und(sfoatcd record 
on tlw li1w against No. 8 Vlichigan 
this W<'PkPnd. 
Tlw Irish arc confident that i.hev 
c:an clcfoat the Wolverines for the 
first tinw. 
"l think w1~ are pretty optimistic 
about it coming off of our wins 
ovPr Northwestnrn and Illinois," 
junior fr1,pstylcr Carrie Nixon said. 
"I think we hav,~ a real shot at 
htating tlwm for the (irst tinrn." 
Last wPekPnd tlw Irish picked 
up t,,vo of tlwir most imprt>ssive 
wins of tlw y1iar. First they 
shork(•d tlw tlrnn-No. 11 Wildcats 
with a I58-l 41 victory. Then on 

All Stwws lkftm: 6 PM $--too 1'4 lU S1mk1lt;J('h1ldn:n/Scni1w.~ \ti )U AJtJ!l S1~rc11 Sul'\'ollnd Sound in ull Theatre... 
Down to You  PG-13  
1 ·00 310 5•20 7:40 ,0:00  
Eye ol the Seholdet  R  
1255 3:15 5:35 755 10·20  
Galaxy Ouesl  PG  
2 45 5 05 7 40 10·25  
Girl Interrupted  R  
110 415 715 10.05  
Magnolia  R  
1 00 4:50 9.10  
Nexl. Friday  A  
1 15 3:30 5:45 8:00 10:15  
Play It To The Bone  R  
1 25 4-QS 7·10 10-10  
Snow Falling On Cedars  PG.13  
1.05 4 10 7·05 9-55  
Stuart Little  PG  
2:30 5·00 7:35 9:50  
Supernova  PG-13  
10:05  
The Cider House Rules  PG-13  
1.20 4·15 7·10 10:15  
The Gn.an Mile  A  
3:45 7-30  
The Hurricane  R  
'2 45 3:55 7 00 TO: 10  
The Talented Mr. Ripley  R  
12-sa 4.00 1-20 10:20  
Toy Story 2  G  

2:35 5:05 7 45 
mellS TIMIS ONIT f(l\111 D'1 ldl'llllit! TIO:!l' iAil! hANlllW ACWSill! tNC PA.>!6 • Ill) SalW,l.\'U! 
Sunday, they won 14 of 16 events against the Illini to win 183.5­116.5. 
Those two wins have given the l.rish morn respect in the eyes of the Wolverines, according to Nixon. 
"I think they will be ready for us," she said. "Northwestern kind of underestimated how good we were. It kind of hit them by sur­prise in the middle of the meet when they realized they were los­ing. But I thiuk Michigan is going to be readv." 
The Wolverines face the Wildcats on Friday before travel­ing to Rolfs Aquatic Center for their date with the Irish on Saturday. The Wolverines are cur­rently 7-3 overall. 
The Wolverines lead Lhe all-time 
series 4-0 and defeated the Irish, 
162-13(,, last year. A win over 
Michigan would give Notre Dame 
an undcfoatcd record heading into 
the Big East Championships. 
"It doesn't affect standings or 
anything, but morally, it is kind of 
nice to go in undefeated into any 
tournament," Nixon said. 
But the Irish arc not taking the 
Wolverines lightly. 
"This will be by far our hardest 
tournament this year," she contin­
ued. 
With two weeks ofT between this 
rn1~ct and the Big East 
Championships, the Irish want to 
end the regular season on a high 
note. A win would help their confi­
dence heading into their taper, a 
reduced training period designed 
help swimmers save energy before 
big meets. 
"It boosts us into taper." Nixon 
said. "Now is the time we get more 
sleek and more rest. .lust to have 
another win under our belt would 
be great." 
The Irish and the Wolverines hit 
the pool Saturday at 6 p.m. in the 
Holfs Aquatic Center. A special 
ceremony will be held for the 
seniors swimming in their last 
home meet. 
Vtsteon 

. Full strength men's squad hosts Oakland 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Associate Spom Editor 
With the Big East Championships less than a month away, the Notre Dame men's swimming and diving team is gearing up for a possible first place finish. 
"We are in a transition period to try and get ourselves in position to do the best we have ever done at the Big East Championships," head coach Tim Welsh said of his team's second-place finish at last year's championships. 
Welsh expects a tough challenge Saturday from Oakland University at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Last weekend, the Golden Grizzlies defeated the Spartans of Michigan State, 1J 9-118. The victory improved Oakland to 8-1 in dual meets this 
year. 
While the Irish fin­.ished third in thP. Bill Ritter Invitational in Milwaukee, Wisc., last weekend, the 
squad was shorthanded and tired. Saturday, the full Irish squad will be ready to race. ff Notre Dame hopes to improve its 3-6 record. every swimmer will have to perform well. 
"The team from Oakland is an excellent team," Welsh said. "We'll race everyone we can." 
In the second to last dual meet of the year, Welsh expects some swimmers to per­form better than usual and others to do worse. It is all part of the fine tuning before the Big East Championships. 
"When you put polish on, sometimes it gets dull before it gets bright and some­times it gets bright right away," he said. "So there might be some surprises this weekend on both sides. We expect that some guys might look super while other guys might look not so great." 
The meet against the Grizzlies offers the 
Irish swimmers the unique opportunity to 
compete in the same races they will swim 
at the Big East Championships. 
"With one exception, all of the individual 
events in the Big East Championships will 
be contested Saturday," Welsh said. "We 
are excited to have a chance to see our 
team race in all of the Big East 
Championship events this weekend." 
Would you like to be there in the beginning? 
Visteon is about to embark on a great challenge: Becoming an independent $18.0 Billion auto supplier. To put this into perspective, we are larger than 3M, Nike, Kodak & Fed Ex. The road to independence involves changes and we're looking to offer you an excellent opportunity to help make those changes! 

We will be developing business practices, strengthening and growing our technologies, and providing the best solutions for the customer. 
Ifyou are a junior with an interest in a career in finance, an internship this summer helping us prepare for an IPO 
would be a great experience! We are looking for people who have a passion for finance, enjoy the challenges of creative problem solving and are the future leaders of tomorrow. 
Come, see what possibilities exist at Visteon during our presentation on Wednesday, February 2nd at Senior Bar from 6:30 p.m. -8:30 p.m. 
For more information please contact your career center. 


------------·---·­
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, January 28, 2000 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Yale visits Eck Center for weekend competition 
By KEVIN BERCHOU 
Spores Writer 
The women's tennis team hopes to improve upon its No. 18 national ranking, but stand­ing in its way is the competitive Yale Bulldog team, as the two teams clash Saturday at the Eck Center. 
Thr Irish have been impres­sive thus far, compiling a 2-1 mark on a recent trip to Hawaii. knocking off Hawaii and No. 23 Washington. The only blemish on the current campaign ·s slate came in a close defeat to fourth-ranked Duke. 
"I though we played pretty well in Hawaii," said Irish head coach Jay Louderback. "In par­
-
ticular. I thought we played very well in some tight matches against Washington. They're a real good team and that was a big win for us." 
As always, the Irish will be led by junior All-America,n Michelle Dasso. Clearly the squad's top player, Dasso will be called upon to play both No. 1 singles and No. 1 doubles where she will be paired with sophomore Becky Varnum. 
Dasso will be looking to better her No. 1 singles record, as she has won only one of her three singles matches thus far. 
"She's coming off a shoulder injury," noted Louderbar,k. "She missed most of the fall schedule and she's just starting to get back into shape. The more she plays the better she'll be." 
Both Varnum and senior cap­tain Krlly Zalinski will be rnlied upon heavily in singles play. Varnum has grabbed the No. 2 singles slot, while Zalinski will play from the No. 3 position. 
The Irish also boast two nationally-ranked doubles pair­ings that, coupled with u strung singles arsenal, make the squad a versatile one. The pairing of Dasso-Varnum is ranked 10th, while the pairing consisting of junior Kimberly Guy and fresh­man Katie Cunha is ranked 15th. 
"I think doubles is our key," said Louderback. "It's reallv our strength." · 
For Dasso-Varnum and Cunha-Guy, this meet will be a final tune-up for the Holcx National Intf:rcollegiate Indoors Championships Feb. 3-6. Notre Dame is one of three schools to qualify two doubles pairs for the lo-team field. 
The Bulldogs will look to pro­vide the Irish with a stern test. Coached by Meghan McMahon, Yale will be looking to come away with a victory in its sea­son opener. The Bulldogs are captained by their No. 1 player, All-Ivy selection, Sara Naison­Phillips. Sumer Khanlarian will 

Marty Lopez is 19! 
What a sexy babe! 
Love Dad, Mom, Pat and Tom 
February is !•.•I month. Be good to yours by participating in 
.'Affairs oftfie Jfeart! 
February 3, 21 or 23 February 10 & 11 
7/iluli G'i'J< :JJfood'lJrive 
6:.J0-9.·.JOpm, 1?c59?G 9am-.J::JO, 1?c5~C Call 1-8662 to register Register @ 1-6100 Minimum of 6 participants or in the RSRC
~·•1
February 13 February 15 
Valenline 7fero6ics :JJ/ood JJressure c5creening 
2-4pm .in JO min.seymen/J ll-1, 4-6 
Court 1, RSRC 
RSRC Classroom
Donation at the door 
February 23 
"J/earl lvellne.u andCarr-hac !'Ri.r£1?ecluclion" 
12:10-12:.50p.m. 
Dr. James Fink, Director of the Mind/Body Medical Institute Cardiovascular Wellness Program, Medical Director of the Chapin Street Clinic. Please bring your questions with you to this informative talk. Notre Dame Room, LaFortune. Call 1-5829 to register. 
~~~~~~~! 
Sponsored by RecSports, IRISHealth & Health Services' Student Wellness Adviso Board 
play from the No. 2 singles posi­noted the Irish coach. "We become acquainted with the tion, and will combine along didn't see them at all during the Bulldogs in a hurry. This match with Naison-Phillips to serve as fall, so we honestly don't know could tell a lot about Notre Yale's top doubles pairing. a whole lot about them." Dame's chances to secure a "They're a very young team," The Irish will certainly fourth Big East tennis crown. 
Elections!! 
Are you interested in running for 
Student Body PresidentNice President 
for the 2000-2001 school year? 
If so, please come to an informational meeting on 
Monday, January 31, 2000 at8pm in the Notre Dame Room 
on the second floor of Lafortune Student Center 
At least one member of each ticket 
p 
should attend. If you are unable to attend, or have any questions, please contact Becky Demko, Judicial Council Vice President at 631-4556. 
brought to you by: 
""J~
Co-t.,Ul\,CW 

R~~ 

LRTE HIGHT 
LYMPIC 
2 D D 0 


JOU!, u, '{)()~ UIUUW 
Co-REC VOLLEYBALL HALF COURT 3 ON 3 BASKETBALL ( M & W) NERF FOOTBALL CO-REC lNNERTUBE WATER POLO WIFFLE BALL Co·REC SOCCER TARGET GOLF 
BROOMBALL ( M & W) KICKBALL RACQUETBALL SINGLES (M & W) KAYAKING MONSTER D . DGEBALL TABLE TENNIS LN O OBSTACLE COURSE 
THE DEADLINE FDR ENTERING A TEAM IS MONDAY, .JANUARY 3 l. 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2000 • 7:00 PM • 4:00 AM .JOYCE CENTER • 631-61 OD 
ALL LN . MEDALS WERE DONATED BY THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
page 21

Friday, January 28, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS 
SMC INTRAMURAL$ 
Belles find on-campus sports 
By MOLLY McVOY Assistant Sports Editor 
Changing the face of athletics at Saint i\1ary's CollegP involves more lhau just varsity sports; it also involves intramurals. 
Together, athletic director Lynn Kachmarik and student inter­mural director Janel Miller hope lo revive Lhe inLrnmural program at Saint Mary's. 
HJ'rn hoping [this program] will build more hall spirit. and more excitement about intramurals," Miller said. "You look at Notre Dame and there is huge enthusi­asm. I hope everyone comes in and plays. Wait, I'm not hoping. 
Thr.y will." 
The program has had many problems in the past, both in organization and participation. Forfeits were widespread both because teams were apathetic and schedules were unclear. Hoth of these problems they hope to address with this new program. 
The program will be based in 
the residence halls this year, and 
I.Jolh Kachmarik and Miller are 
looking for their enthusiasm to make it a success. All members of the team must live in the same hall and they will compete to make their hall the champion. 
There will be a basketball, vol­leyball and indoor soccer compe­tition this year which will all cul­m in ate the night of Midnight Madness on March 31. The finals of each of the sports will occur that night. Kachmarik and \!liller feel that this alone makes it more exciting for the student body. 
"This year, its leading up to something," Miller said. "We're offering more for those who par­ticipate." 
The season will run like a typi­cal sports season, and the num­ber of games played .depends on the number of teams parlicipat­in g. The determination of the winning hall will depend on points earned both through win­ning the most games and having the most participation, according to Kachmarik. 
"Again, we're offering more 
this year," Miller said. "Not only 
t-shirts for the winning sports, we 
already have a hugfl plaque for 
the winning dorm to be engraved 
and presented." 
As the opening of the season approaches on Febuary 14, one of Miller's few concerns is her inability to control if teams forfeit or not. 
"{Forfeitsl are the most frus­trating part for me. When a team doesn't show up, schedules are a mess and I can't do much about it. I'm going to enforce to two for­feit rule. If thev don't call me 24 hours in advan~e, they will not be included in the finals." 
Miller also hopes that making the schedules more clear and available will also help. Meetings t'or the team r.aptains will be held in each of the residence halls before the opening of the season and Miller is going to take advan­tage of technology to get the word out. She will e-mail the schedules and post the schedules on the Saini Mary's athletics web page. 
Even with these worries, both 
excited about the interrnurals. "Our whole goal was to get 
more women involved," Kachmarik said. "These intramu­
rals really bring in every aspect
of wellness for women." 

College of Arts and Letters University of Notre Dame 
The College of Arts and Letters Invites Student Nominations for Kaneb Teaching Awards 
Each year Kaneb Teaching Awards recognize approximately 25 Arts and Letters faculty for excellence in undergraduate teaching. 
Tenured faculty as well as professional specialist and adjunct faculty who have taught at least five years are eligible. 
Take advantage of this opportunity to have a v_oice in the selecti.~n of these recipients by nominating one of your outstanding teachers for this award. 
Send a brief letter indicating what is special or significant about this instructor to: 
Dian Murray, Associate Dean 101 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Monday, February 7 
Men 
continued from page 24 
the fans, we'll have a good chance on Saturday." 
St. John's is one of four teams ahead of Notre Dame in the Big East standings, despite losing to conference opponent Seton Hall and non­conference foe Ohio State last week. St. John's bounced back from the two losses with a win over Rutgers, a team that beat Notre Dame by 25 points Jan. 18. 
The Irish, meanwhile, return to play after a 63-49 home loss to Miami (Fla.} Tuesday. 
St. John's earned its No. 23 
national ranking with fast­
paced play, in part to com• 
pensate for its lack of height. 
"They're a lot more athletic than we are," senior point guard Jimmy Dillon said. "They like an up tempo game, they're well coached, 
ICI• A • IkI•do 
Mondays _ 7·. 30-9 ·. 30 Beginning February 7 

Demonstration } January 31 · 7:45pm Rockne 219 
Register in Advance at RecSports Class Fee is $19 Call 1-6100 for More Information 
Rec:.~ 
J 
They're going to be hounding us up front a lot, especially Troy (Murphy]. and we're going to need to drop back and hit our shots." 
Hitting shots is key for the Irish. They beat Pittsburgh last week with better than GO percent shooting, but when their shooting falters, such as against Rutgers and Miami, so does their winning per­centage. 
The Irish will turn to pre­season All-American Murphy to put them over the top. 
"They don't really have anyone who can match up with Troy down low," Graves said. "They're not very big and they don't have a lot of size." 
Lavar Postell is the top for­ward for St. John's. Postell scored 16 points in the Red Storm's win over the Rutgers Scarlet Knights, also coming up with a key block in the final minute of play. However, Postell measures just 6-foot-6, a good four 
but they're not verv deep. inches shorter than Murphy. 
Miller and Kachmarik are reallyrr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, January 28, 2000 


Wolllen 
continued from page 24 
the one the Irish saw at Georgetown. The Hoyas have won their last four games and are playing their best ball of the season with an 11-6 over­all and 4-3 conference record. 
If Georgetown can come out on top at ttrn Joyce Centn, it would boost the lloya's No. 4 conference ranking and shock tlrn Irish, who have not lost on home turf since the begin­ning of the 1998 season. 
"[The Hoyas! ncvnr gave up whon we IJlayed them a few weeks ago.' said Leahy. "Even in the last few minutes when wti had pulled alrnad they wf'rn still playing hard and fighting for every ball. 
They're going to be playing tough on Saturday.· 
The Boyas have never beat­en the Irish at Notre Dame ­the only conference rival who has is Connecticut. 
Center Ruth Riley and guard Nicle Ivey have paced the Irish all season. Riley has dominated her opponents in the paint and leads the squad in scoring and rebounding with an average of more than 15 points and seven rebounds per game. Hiley·s prowess under the net has made her the go-to player on the court. In Notre Damfl's games against St. John's her perfor­mance on offense helped keep the Irish on top. 
"We played in spurts --it was a real streaky game,' said Leahy. "But once we started getting it to Ruth we 

. s4_50 All Shows Before 6 pm • Advance Tieket Sales Available :J e\. ; 
All Times for Dec. 3-5 Only Saturday & Sunday Matinees in Brackets 
were able to score and go ahead.' 
Ivey is one of four Irish players whose scoring aver­age is in double digits. She also leads tho team in assists, averaging seven per game. lvey's basketball skills have earned her a nomination for St. Louis College Sportswoman of the Year in her home state of Missouri. 
Irish guard Danielle Gre~\n bas also stepped up and played a pivotal role for the Irish recently. With sr.vPn starts th.is season, the fifth­year senior has been the bigb scorer for the Irish in the last two games. lier season-high 22 points helped the Irish down the Hurricanes in Miami before she and Hiley scored 16 apilice against St. John's. 
; 
Eve of the Beholder (R) Digital [12:()() '.!JO] 4·50 7:20 9:45 : End of the Affair (R) Digital [l2J0 2:50] 5:20 750 10:15 Play It to the llom, iR) DigitalII· lll] 4:00 7'1.)(l W:DO Angela's Ashe, (RI I>1gital 112:40] l.'iO 7:IO 10:20 Down lo You !PG-Ol Digna!l11 ·50 2:CO] -l:'.)0 6:50 9:20 The Hurricane fR} D1giwl [IJXlJ 4:10 7:l'i 10·20 , Next Friday !Rl Digital (12:25 2:40] 5:15 7:45 I0:05 
• Girl Interrupted {R) Digit,~ (l UO 2:151 5:W 7:40 10:30 
_____.,., --•--•~•-v•--•---~-,... 
SCOTTSDALE 6 
Scottsdale Mall• 299-6063 
Bone Collector (R) [J:'iO] 4:40 7:20 l{):(Xl The Messenger (R) [IJOJ 5:00 8:10 Douhl~ Jeopardy (R) {I ·40] 4:20 7: 10 9:50 
Supernova (PG-13) IJigital , [1'.N5 ]:(X')J 5:10 7•"',5 I0:05 Magnolia (R) Digit:il . f12:20] 4: 15 8:!Xl Any Given Sunday (R) Digital [I :20j 4:45 8:20 Galaxv Quest 1PC) l)ig:ital ' I12: 15 2:45) 5:05 7JO 9:55 Stuart Little (PG) Digital [1!·55 2:10) 4:.10 6:40 9:00 
TheGn'<'n Mile (R) Digi1:il [ 12· IOJ 4:~5 8: IO 
Toy Story 2 {G) D1g11al · [11 :4il 2:20] 4:55 7:25 9:50 Deuce Bigalow: Male Gigolo (R) Di1,.~1al [12:50 :l:10] 5:30 8:0'i 10:35 
ONLY $1 00 All Shows Beti,ro 6 pm
• Everyone • Everyday $1.50 All Evening Shows ,Yb 
Pokemon (G) 11 :00] 4:lX) 6:4.~ 9:00 
Thn-c King,~ !R) 
[1:20) 4:30 7:30 J0:10 
House on Haunted Hill (R) 
[2:(Xl) 4:50 7:40 9:40 
Friday, January 28, 2000 
FOURTH ANO INCHES 
The Observer . TODAY 
TOM KEELEY 

Fox TROT 
PETtR, I WISH IN1 "fOIJ'I) liEll' HELPING '\'OUR FATHER. HIM, 
I MoM. 
-J; 
HOW? HE'S EXACTlY. OUTSIDE AFTER AN SHOVEi.iNC:, HOUR OF TWO FEET SACl<BREAI<· OF SNOW! ING WORIC IN 10-DE'7REE WE.ATHEil, WHAT'S THE MAN <,01N(; TO BE IN MA3oR NEE.D oF? 
.J 
I 
A NICE, WARMED-UP SOFA CUSHION WITH A NICE, WARMED-UP TV REMOTE. I 
BILL AMEND 
LET'S 60. MOM, I'M 0UTS1DE. SERIOUS­
FEEL THE HEAT ON THESE BUTTONS! 
page 23 

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 

beam.1@nd.edu 
.. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 38 Show with skits, 61 Like flotsam and for short jetsam
"Hey!" 5 Met fans 39 Spy's disguise 62 Fuse 63 Like junior year
15 Evening for 40 Get from 
(progress-) -64 View finders 
Yvette 16 Washington 41 She played post Anita in "West DOWN Side Story" 
17 Title girl in a 1 Miserere, for song on the first 43 Gathered 
one Beatles album copiously 2 Court figure in 18 "Be prepared" 45 "Buenos 
Washington 3 1967 war site19 Be in contact 
46 Bounder Down 
(with) 4 Unwelcome
Under boarder21 Bitten one, for 
47 Decent fellows 
short 5 Bony51 Onetime 
6 Chest muscle, 22 21-Across biter 
outlawed org. 
for short 23 An apple 
54 Part of a rebel 
7 Methuselah's25 Bit of raingear 
name 
father 27 Profligate 
56 Like half a 8 Julia on screen 28 Like the Arctic season's games 
9 Tackle 32 Fickle 57 Is overjoyed 10 Opposite of 36 Unconvincing celebrate
60 Biologist 37 Fool Metchnikoff 11 Entertaining grp. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Greek deli 
purchase S I C S T A G 13 Some dietary 0 C O A H M E intake 
D E B T 14 Freeze R A v I s 20 Kind of silence ..;:;.i111111,...:....ii..:...;.j.,;..;..~~~ 24 Arrives, as darkness 26 Decorator's 
concern 28 Take cargo from 29 Four-star review 30 Federal agents 
lllllli"-:-r.:-t-;R-=--t 31 Man of the hour 
..._..:..+~V~ 32 Building support M E M O -e--t-=-t--:::-t-::""-=-A 33 _ pretty sight P L A N A L E N 34 Chuck wagon T Y N E H A D E T honcho 

maybe 
39 Take it easy 41 Director Howard Hawks's last film, 1970 42 Source of calling 44 Fails to 47 Half of a well­known comedy duo 48 like old socks, maybe 
character cartoonist Graham
50 Has got to have 55 Hydroxyl 
51 Champ's cry 
compound 58 Krazy_
52 Mudder's day event 59 Connections 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
HOROSCOPE 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 28, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 
DAY: Athina Onassis, Nick Carter, 
Alan Alda, Elijah Wood, John Caliri, 
Barbi Benton, Susan Howard 
Happy Birthd"-)': You will learn a 
lot if you can travel and observe. The 
more exposed you are to new tradi­
tions and meL'1o<ls of doing things, 
the better equipped you will be 
when forced to deal with your own 
issues. This is a year to hold on to 
what you already have and refrain 
from expanding }our interests too 
quickly. Your numbers: 8, 14, 23, 28, 
31.40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You 
will entice members of the opposite 
sex with your passion for life and 
your quick wit. You will have to 
watch that you don't upset someone 
who already thinks oi you as his or 
he: mate. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You 
•vill be nervous and anxious today. Don't get angry over trivial matters. You mustn't blame others for your own stubbornness. Cm-reel: mistakes rather than ma.1<ing more. 000 
GEMINI (Mav 21-June 20): Changes at work· will make you upset with your boss. The result will be far better than you anticipate. Remember that thoughts are fol­lowed by actions. 000 
CANCER (June Z1-July 22): Fam­ily should take top priority today. You can be helpful if you listen to the difficulties your loved ones are expe­riencing. Changes in your home will be nerve-racking but favorable. 
00000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Friends may need to lean on you. Romance is evident; however, if you get involved with more than one partner, you can expect repercussions. Uneasiness 
EUGENIA LAST 
and upset in your home are likely. 
00 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): It is best to take some extra work home with you. Problems with transporta­tion and communications are evi­dent. Don't make promises. Don't let yourself get run-down. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Losses are likely if you get involved in joint financial ventures or if you aren't careful with your belongings. Don't let acquaintances talk you into doing things you'd rather not do. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your influences will stem from the books you read and the individuals you come in contact with. Keep an open mind. Research before making any commitments. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't waste time on legalities or problems that require you to deal with goverrun,?nt agencies. You will have trouble expressing yourself. Stick to your job and avoid making decisions. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Friends will confess to having prob­lems with their mates. You can offer suggestions, but don't get caught in the middle. Don't gamble; loss is likely. Romance is apparent 0000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-FeB. 18): Travel will bring you greater knowl­edge. Problems concerning your rep­utation may put you under the gun. You can't run away from these mat­ters. Get things in the open and start 
over.000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your 
,. 
persuasive talent will help convince others to support your efforts. Don't hesitate to use your alluring manner to capture the heart of a love interest. 
00000 

Birthday Baby: You will want to learn about everything. Your interests are vast, and your knowledge will impress those you meet throughout your life. You will have a great deal to offer others and will be a welcome member and contributor to any group you join. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialaslcom, astromate.com.) 
Ii;) 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 
.. 






Rivalry renewed 
Defending national champion Penn State visits the Joyce Center this week­end to take on the 1999 runner-up Notre Dame fencing team.
PORTS 
page 14 
O
THE 
page 24 BSERVER Friday, January 28, 2000 
BASKETBALL 
Irish clash with conference opponents at home 
. Win over St. John's crucial for tourney hopes 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Assistant Spom Editor 
For any dreams of experienc­ing March Madness to remain intact, the Irish need to defeat the Hed Storm of St. JohnOs Saturday. 
One of the main goals for the Irish { 12-8, 3-3l this season is to qualify for the NCAA tourna­ment, but the Red Slorm (13-4, 5-'I) is the next potential Big East barrier on the road to the Big Dance. 
"It's very important because they're a ranked team, a ranked opponent, and it will be a chance to improve our record." Irish forward David Graves said. "We need to get to about 20 wins. If we beat [St. John's] and beat Connecticut at Connecticut and beat Ohio State at Ohio State, that will help our RPI rating." 
Last season, five Big East con­ference teams earned a trip to the NCM tournament. Right now. Notre Dame is tied for fifth place in the conference with a 3-3 league record. St. John's, Miami, Seton Hall and Syracuse all rank ahead of Notre Dame, while West Virginia and Rutgers share the No. 5 spot in the Big East. Just behind Notre Dame is Connecticut (13-4, 2-3}, which is nearly assured a postseason bid based on its top-10 national ranking. 
But the Irish are not going to be content with just an NIT bid. 
"I don't want to go to the NIT," Graves said. "I've been to New York too many times. My goal in coming here was to help get this program back to the NCAA tournament. Hopefully with the help of the crowd and 
see MEN/page 21 

. Blue and gold seek to extend 12-game streak 
By KERRY SMITH Assisram Spom Editor 

Three weeks ago the Irish traveled to Georgetown and handed the Hoyas a convinc­ing 82-60 defeat. 
The Irish were then ranked eighth in the nation; the Hoyas were in the midst of a four-game losing slide. 
But a lot can change in a few weeks. 
When the 1-loyas come to town Saturday night to try to avenge their early season loss to the Irish. the rivalry will be bigger and the stakes will be higher. 
The Irish, who are enjoying a 12-game winning streak, have moved up to the NCAA's fifth spot. They will look to remain undefeatsd in the Big East conference and wrack up their 17th consecutive home-court win. 
Notre Dame shares the top conference spot with Connecticut and both teams are just waiting for the other to fall to claim full rights to the No. 1 conference ranking. 
"It's taken us a while to accept that we're the team to beat because we weren't in that position a couple of years ago,· said forward Meaghan Leahy, who scored a career-high nine points in the squad's last meeting with the Hoyas. "We need to take every team seriously because a win over us could make their season.· 
For the Boyas, a team that has recently gotten its season back on track, a win over Notre Dame could be just what they need. 
The Hoyas plan to put a dif­ferent team on the court than 
see WOMEN/page 22 
HOCKEY 
Icemen seek to continue winning ways in Alaska 
.. 
By MATT OLIVA 
Assistanc Spons Edicor 
After climbing into fifth­place in the Central Collegiate Hockey Association conference last weekend with two key vic­tories against Western Michigan, Notre Dame looks to continue its recent success this weekend against the 
University of Alaska-Fairbanks. 
Notre Dame (10-13-5, 7-7-4 CCHAi has 10 more conference games left, seven of which are on the road, which could prove a challenge as they try to move up and secure home-ice for the first round of the playoffs. 
Alaska-Fairbanks enters the series in last place in the CCIIA standings, but hold a 12-11 series record against Notre Dame. Alaska-Fairbanks is looking to move up into the 10th and final spot for the playoffs. It trails 10th place Bowling Green by six points with only ten games to play. 
In recent competition, the Irish have been successful against the Nanooks. In the last 11 match-ups between the Lwo teams, the Irish have gone 
9-2-0, including capturing the last thrne series. The two games played at tho Joyce Center this year have been very tight, despite the Irish winning both games. Each game was decided by a one­goal margin (1-0, 3-2). 
For the Irish to add to their win totals i.n Alaska, they will need several players to keep contributing. Dan Carlson and Joe Dusbabek combined for a 10-point weekend against Western Michigan. 
Carlson, a junior leftwing, has surged to the team lead in goals (nine) with the game­tying and game-winning goals against the Broncos last Friday. He added a goal and an assist on Saturday to give 
see HOCKEY/page 16 
Men's Swimming ar Alaska-Fairbanks 
vs. St. John's 
vs. Oakland University at Friday, 7:05 p.m. Milwaukee Saturday, 3 p.m. 
SPORTS 
Fencing

Saturday, l p.m. 
vs. Penn Scace

ATA 

Saturday and Sunday 
Track and field 
vs. Oliver 
vs. Georgetownat Indiana 
Saturday, 3 p.m. 
Saturday, 7 p.m. 
Friday, 7:30 p.m.
GLANCE • 



