· 
Monday 
APRIL 3, 2000 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Faculty instruct local K-12 teachers 
as far as children who are in 
By KATE NAGENGAST 
schools at war with a variety News Writer 
of things -drugs and alco­hol, early sex .. , and respectA symbolic handshake with for self," said Judy Simone,the South Bond community, counsrlor at South Bend's St.
Notre Dame's 1rnwly adopted Joseph's Iligh School. 
professional <l evelopment Begun at Harvard
program, "Teachers as 
University as a collaborative
Scholars" (TAS), invites 


project with
kindergarten 
the Brooklinethrough 12th­"Many people say (Mass.) Publicgrade teachers 
the teachers are School District, 
from the area 
the TAS pro­
to attend two­rejuvenated when 
gram received
day seminars they return funding from
taught by Arts 
and Letters to their classrooms." the Woodrow 
W i-1 s o nfacultv. 
National
"l really like 
Bridget Green 
Fellowship
the idea 
program coordinator F u n d
behind this 
By ANN MARIE MATTINGLY News Editor 
The Observer was recog­nized as 1999 Newspaper of the Year at the Indiana Collegiate Press Association's annual conference Saturday in Bloomington, Ind. 
The stalf of the Star-Gazette in Elmira, N.Y, judg11d tlrn nPwspapnr entries. 
"Impressive ncw·spaper with strong quality writing on hoth serious issues and lighter fea­tures and sports,·· wrote the judges. ''Students have clearly mastered the basics of jour­nalism in both words and visual presentation. This is a newspaper lof) which th1~ \fotre Dame and [Saint! Mary's community should be proud." 
The association abo recog­n izect Dome as the second place yearbook and Scholastic Magazine as the second place magazine in the nows maga­zine calegury. 
The Observer won awards for the best single issue and the best special issue in addi­lion to several individual cate­gory winners. 
In writing, Observer staffers Michelle Krupa, Shannon Ryan. Laura Petelle and Colleen Gaughen won first place for best staff editorial, while Krupa and the 1999­
2000 ICPA winners Edit­
orial 
. The Observer 
Board 
first place won 
s e, r ­
• Dome 
o n d 
second place place 
. Scholastic Magazine in the 
second place same 
ca.to­
gory. Petelle and Ryan took first and second place, respective­ly, for best column. and Finn Pressly, Tim Logan, Christine Kraly, Krupa and Petelle earned third place for best news story. 
Staffers Brian Kessler and Tim Casey took the first place award for best sports story, while Kathleen O'Brien and Casey garnered second and third place awards, respec­tively. for best sports feature. 
Geoffrey Rahie and Joey Leniski took the top two awards in the category of best entertainment review. 
In the design categories, Mark DeBoy earned second place for the best feature page or spread. Staffers Kevin Dalum, Kessler, Casey, O'Brien.and Bill Hart tied with a second Observer ,mtry by Kessler. Mike Connolly, Casey, Anthony Bianco and Bart for top honors in the best sports page or spread category. 
John D&ily took third place in the category of besL news photo, while Datum won both first and third place in the best sports photo category. Daily, Jeff Hsu and Dalum won first place for best photo essay or picture story. Cartoonist Jeffrey Hearn earned first place in both the best editorial cartoon and best comic strip categories. 
Ball State University and Indiana University came in second and third, respectively, in the competition, which is for college newspapers that publish three or more times per week. 
program where Notre Dame is roach­ing out to integrate in a more dynamic way with members of the community, especially with other teachers ... it's a neat handshake," said Carolyn Nordstrom, associate professor of anthropology. 
Nordstrom's TAS seminar on Thursday tackled the issue of children and war as it relates to orphans in war­torn countries and even stu­dents in American schools who have experienced vio­lence. 
"It is interesting to see how this applies to our own lives 
(WWNH) to 
become a 
nationwide professional 
development program in the 
early 1990s. With 15 colleges 
and universities across the 
country already participating 
in the program, TAS was 
brought to Notre Dame last 
year by Arts and Letters 
associate dean Julia 
Douthwaite and Theodore 
Cachey, associate professor 
of romance languages and 
literature. 
"When you ask teachers ..what a typical professional 
see TEACH/page 4 


ND Police: Woman reported rape in dorm 
. Victim knows her attacker, officers say 
Observer Staff Repon 
A :"Jotre Dame student reported to campus security she was raped by an acquaintance March 25. 
The victim was taken to a hos­pita! where she was treated bv hospital staff and interviewed by Notre Dame Security/Police. 
At the .victim's request, no criminal charges have been filed against the alleged attacker. 
"We went to the hospital; we interviewed the victim," Rex Rakow, director of Notre Dame Security/Police said. "At the vic­tim's request there's been no fur­th'er follow up." 
Additional security measures will not be taken and patrols will not be increased, according to Rakow since the alleged attacker and victim were acquainted 
"These two people know each other," Rakow said. Many rapes on college campus­es are perpetrated by acquain­
tances. according to du Lac. 
Since the victim has declined to press charges against the alleged attacker. the Office of Student Affairs will not take any action. The names of the students involved have not hefm reported to Student Affairs. 
"Hesidcnt Life wouldn't even know the names if tho victim declined to press charges," said Bill Kirk, assistant vice president of Student Affairs. ''The primary interests of the victim are taken into account." 
Campus security officials did report the incident to Student Affairs, however. 
"All incidents or crime of cam­pus are reported the same way as a normal police department," Kirk said. "If the incident involved a violation or school pol­icy by a student, which is usually does, Student Affairs would also he informed." 
While further criminal charges will not be pursued, the statistics on campus security will include this incident in accordance with the Campus Security Act. 


-page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, April 3, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A true friend will argue 
As this year comes to a close, many of us find ourselves learning the trnth abl)ut the people around us. 
Until a couple of days agu, I thought tlrnl I had found some true friends at Notre Dame. I mean, I loved it here; friends were !{reat, classes 
Maribel Morey 
were prPtty cool and it was just fun overall. I still 
love it here; classes are 
News Copy
still pretty cool and I'm 
Editor
still having fun, Lut last Wednesday taught me 
much more aboul life than 
most of my classes in my entire life 
All friends am not created equal. 
Yeah, you knuw I got to school in the fall, and all of a sudd,rn I found myself living amongst 200 other girls and dealing with many more female hormones other than my own. While living in rows of shoeboxes, we get to know each other pretty quickly. Actually, we get to know the persona that each person wants to portray. 
Among my good friends at school who make each day bright (even when we don't see the sun for the month), there arc those I consid­ered friends who hurt much more than they can ever give back. ['ve learned that some-· body cannot hurt me unless I let them because I have known who I am way before they ever met me. Friends are not supposed to hurt vou, hence the word friend. 
True f"riends can be woken up with a phone call at 2 a.m. when you need them. True ·· friends make you smile even during finals week. But most of all, true friends do not always need to agree. ~ 
As I write this column, you must know that I am an opinionated person. but you're not the first to figure that out. During my 18 years, I have not kept my mouth shut, and I usually have an opinion about a lot, but that's me. 
True friends have stayed throughout all these years and all these opinions because we're strong individuals. We are secure enough with ourselves and our beliefs to dif­fer without feeling defensive. We understand that we won't always agree, but our friend­ship binds us. 
Yes, mv best friend is far awav. but she is one of my true friends who I will always love. We have known each other since the "New Kids on the Block" davs and we will console. each other while friends come and go. 
I have many true friends and my roommate here, by chance, has become on~ of these friends even though we don't always agree; but, agreeing all the time is not the point. Friendship for me does not come when I find a mirror image of myself. Friendship just happens. It's one of those things that forms when people love to be around each other and don't let differences divide them. 
As a Russian proverb says, "A mere friend will agree with you, but a real friend will argue." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Michelle Krupa Amanda Greco Jason McFarley Graphics 
Sports Jose Cuellar Kerry Smith Production Kathleen O'Brien 
Ke:rry Smith 
Viewpoint 
Lab Tech 
Lila Haughey Tony Floyd 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) ;., published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is :t member of rhe A,sociaced l'rc<s. All reproducrion righr. arc reserved. 

THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Monday Tuesday Thursday Friday 
. Conference: "Business, . Seminar: "U.S. Policy . Lecture: "Tho Problem . Conference: College con­
Religion and Spirituality;.. towards Latin America; of Stat11-Building in Post-l'erence presented by 
keynote speaker Father Costs of lnPrtia;" present.-Communism;" presented Notre Dame Right to Life; 
01ivcr Williams; 8 a.m.; cd by MichrH'l Shiner. pro-by Vcmelin Ganev; 4:15 workshops and speakers; 
sessions through Tuesday, gram direr,tor and senior p.m.; C-HU Ilesburgh. sessions through Sunday, 
April 4; activities held at fellow at Inter-American . Screening: National April 9; College. of 
Center for Continuing Dialogue; 12;30 p.m.; C-Alcohol Scroening Day; Business; call 6:·11-9006 or 
Pducation. IOB Ilesburgh. Center. contac·t. Il11alth Services. 284-5033 for information. 
Compiled from lJ. Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
U. Mass students vote in favor of marijuana 
BOSTO!\J' "What people should be able to he said. 
The smoke has cleared in town Students at the UMass Amherst,
do with their own body is a
of Amhf'rst following last Tuesday's Amherst College and Hampshire elections and the message is clear: matter ofhuman liberty." College are among residents who l{esidon ts arc in favor of m arij ua­comprise the western na. Massachusetts college town of
Terry Franklin
A non-binding rdcrendum urging 35,000.
Citizens for a Sensible Marijuana Policy
state and federal lawmakers to The Cannabis Heform Coalition repeal anti-marijuana laws passed (CHC) at UMass, which boasts over with 1,6'.i9 votes i11 favor and 981 campuses is tlw Citizens for a I00 student nrnm bers, was among opposed, with 20 percent of' regis­Snnsihle Marijuana Policy. the studf'nt groups collecting signa­tered voters casting ballots. "\Vhat people should be able to tures. 
Town Clerk Margaret Nartowicz do with their own body is a matter "We knocked on every dorm door said the vote at two precincts lorat­of human liberty," said Citizens on campus -some twice," said e d on the University of spokesman Terry Franklin. Dean Coffey, CRC president. Massachusetts at Amherst campus Franklin said the group advocat­In order to sign petitions, stu­was a-lopsided 192 to seven. ed the referendum for reasons dents had to be registered to vote 
"Quite a lot of people were including religion, medicine and -in Amherst. The CRC managed to inspired to come out and vote in personal pleasure. register 1,503 students, some for this election," l\artowicz said. "Amherst is a college town, and tlrn first time. 
The umbrella organization in although some people think college Students also sent out mailers, Amherst that has coordinated other towns don't really matter, social made phone calls and posted signs smaller groups on and off college movements start in college towns." about the vote. 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Monday, Apr. 3.
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H L 
Monday cCA 61 42 Tuesda.Y ~-.~,.i1' 32 
'\. ' ' ,, ... ~; __ . ·:· 
Wednesday~ 52 40 
FRONTS: 
........... ,,.-.......

Thursday Q . 62 47 

Cl 2000 AccuWeathet, Inc. cow WARM STATIONARY Pnawrt: 
"'' \. '\. i 
® © .' .' ' •.~) -­
~ . EJ [:]. \, ~ ~~ 
High Low Showers Rain T~sto,m¦ FlurrlH Snow le• Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
Frida.. 11 _ .. -"'r:CA 67 46
_1-·1 :......,..,).1'.\ ,, 
(.,~J\~'--···•'--.,_/,,\\.,,·; 
Atlanta 71 60 Las Vagas 82 56 San Francisco 69 53 Baltimore 68 58 Memphis 62 48 Santa Fe 46 30 Boston 55 48 New York 61 56 St. Louis 58 38

q,~,~'8~Q o ~ u 
Chicago 60 38 Philadelphia 67 59 Tampa 84 66 
Illinois students join in Census 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. 
On April 1 the University of Illinois and the Census Bureau began working together to ensure students are countr.d in the census process. 
The census is important in deciding bow and where federal funds, including transportation, education, fire and police funding, will be spent. The University is also affected by census rf'sults. 
'Tm sure there are federal programs the University will be able to take advantage of based on the number of students," said Kyle Wittler. local census oflice manager. 
University students are required tu fill out their own census forms and are not to be included on their family's form, said Esther Patt, coordinator of the Tenant Union. 
Wittler said students will be sent one of two forms at random through the mail. More than 80 pcrcfmt of stu­dents will receive a short l'orm, which asks onlv six questions, including name, sex, age and race. · 
The long form asks more detailed questions which range from employment to the monthly heating bill for the household, Wittler said. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
Iowans protest education cuts 
DES MOINES, Iowa 

An amendment to rnstore $13.8 million in budget cuts to the state's public universities was defeated 55-42 along party lines in the Iowa House of Representatives last Tuesday. 
The entire education budget bill passed, 55-41, with Republicans in the majority, sending it to the [owa Senate. 
The dedsions were made the same day that approxi­mately 65 students from the UI, Iowa State University and the University of Northern Iowa rallied on the state Capitol steps, in Des Moines. 
Student government leaders we.re told by Brent Siegrist, a Republican from Council Bluffs and the speaker of the !louse, that the bill would pass with the budget cuts. 
"We're going to be cast as the bastard child of the state today-but that's OK," he said. 
In a meeting with student government leaders, Siegrist spoke candidly, telling them their efforts wouldn't have immediate impact. 
Showers 7'-stom,s Rain Fturrles Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 67 46 Portland 71 47 Wash, DC 71 60 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet ­
TMonday, Apcil 3,._2_0_0_0_______________1_h_e-0-bs~er-v-er-.-C-A-M_P_U~-NE_W_S_ -­
page 3 


Assistant secretary of education accepts Olivarez award 
By ERIN PIROUTEK A,sociate News Edi tor 
If we Wf~re an ideal country we wouldn't have to worry about equal education uppor­tunitv, said Norma Cantu. the assiitant secrP-tary !'or civil rights in the U.S. llepartme·nt of Education, as shl\ received till' (;racicla Olivarez Award Saturday. The prize honors thn firsl fonrnlc gradualc of Noln' Danw l.avv Srhool. 
Cantu's office uses federal civil rights statutes tu give peoplP opportuniti<>s they deserve rcgar<lless of race, rolor, national origin, sex, dis­ability or age. 
Evt>H today, 46 ynars after B row n v. t lw Bo a rd of Education, some schools do not treat students equally. 
··wn still lmvP. discrimination in Amnrica," Cantlt sai<l. Oni, day a woman called cry­ing, Canti'1 recalled. She was 
homeless, and school adminis­trators, who were white, refused to enroll her Afriran­t\merican son becauso shfl did not have a permanent address in the district. Cantt'r's orfico got the boy enrolled that day. 
Cantu desnibed a woman who couldn't graduate with her high school class because tlrn graduation cen~mony was in a wlwelcl1air-inacccssible room. Ttrn school wanted to mail the student her diploma. Ca nt11 ·s office vrranged to have a ramp built so lho woman· could join her class. 
Anothf'r woman was con­cerned when administrator placed her daughter in the most remedial special educa­tion class. 
"She didn't think her daugh­ter was dumb," Cantu said, The ))ppartmcnt of Education learned that the girl didn't speak an_v English. Cantu's office helped her rPce.ivf' Ian­guage instruction and several years later, the girl ,-vas taking high school r:ourses for gifted students. 
Cantu's office also deals with broad educational policies and she urged the audience, com­prist>d mainly of law students. to consider joining the public Sf'rvicR sector. 
"The Department of Education is going lo need sonw hPlp to get the word out that there's a new way of doing business in America." Cantu said. "I'm looking for a few good leaders." 
She also paid tribute to Olivarez, the award's name­sake. 
"ln her short life shn did so much to serve as an example for all of us," Cantu said. 
Olivarez was not only the first fomale to graduate from thP law school, she was also tho first Latina graduate. Each year, thP Hispanic Law 
NEW PANCAKE-MINIS™-JUST 9 9 ¢ I EAT A DELICIOUS BREAKFAST ON YOUR WAY TO WORK WITHOUT WEARING I TI 
DELICIOUS, SILVER-DOLLAR SIZED PANCAKE-MINIS~ 
lNTRODUClMG GREAT·TAST!NG, BUTTERMILK PANC•KE·MIN!S7 THEY'RE THE 
PERFECT  SIZE  FOR  DIPPING  WITHOUT  DRIPPING  AS  YOU  RACE  TO  \/ORK,  
FOR  A LIMJTED  TIME,  GET  SIX  FOR  JUST  99¢.  ONLY  AT  BURGER  KING;  
The Huddle -Lafortune Student Center  

Student A S S O c ­iation (HLSA) honors a Hispanic judge or lawyer in her name. 
A chance meeting I e cl Olivarez, a civil rights activist, to 
N  o t  r  c  
Dame.  
On  a  

plane back from a civil rights rally, she happened to sit next to Father Theodore llesburgh, University presi­dr,nt emeritus. He was impressed with her accom­plishments and asked he.r to come to the Notre Dame Law School, explained Rudy Monterrosa. vice president of the I-ILSA. Olivarez, however, was a high school dropout. 
"We all know that Father IJesburgh has an amazing way 

SMC students, faculty present on education 
Karla Flores, Marcie Livesay,By COLLEEN McCARTHY Tiffany Marko and Deanna 
Associate News Editor 
Saylor. The presentation dealt with the educational experience
Several Saint Mary's students at a women's college.
and faculty were more than 
The group began its researchspectators at a women's confer­in January. Each student chose

ence hPld last weekend ai4. 
an article about education at aIndiana University-South Bend. 
women's college and presentedThe conference, "Educating findings, including anecdotes. 
Women for a New Millennium: "We talked about how we feltFrom Childhood to Adulthood," our education at a women's col­
explored different ways of 
lege benefited us going into the
assessing learning styles and workforce as opposed to if we
how to use education to benefit had attended a
all students, 
coed college,"

rather than 
"I could tell from the Macnak said.
particular 
"The big thing

groups. questions that were being 
people focused

Participants 
asked that the 
on was if a sin­

also identified 
presentation had really gle-sex or coed­
specific issues 
ucation a 1

affecting hit home." 
school was bet­

women's suc­
ter. It depends

cess in the 
Hayley Dawson on what your
classroom. Hayley student presenter needs are as an 
Dawson, a Saint Mary's sophomore, was among students presenting at the conference. Dawson's presentation dealt with the positive effects of sex education in American public schools, an issue she said is criti­cal in the education of girls. 
"I've been doing research on if sex education programs work and if they do, what kinds of programs work," Dawson said. 
Dawson began her research on sex education in schools last semester as part of a class pro­jer.t. She applied this research to her presentation. 
"I believe it is important for today's female adolescents to know what sex entails so they can protect themselves in today's society," said Dawson. "We had a wonderful discussion about the topic, and I coul<l tell from the questions that were being asked that the presenta­tion had really hit home with some people in the audience." 
Saint Mary's junior .Jennifer Macnak gave a presentation with Fran Korninkiewicz, direc­tor of the social work program at Saint Mary's, and students 
of making things happen," Monterrosa said. Olivarez took the LSAT, did well and was subsequently admitted. 
After graduation, slrn contin­ued to work for civil rights and spoke out against poverty and abortion. 
"Graciela was a person who would never be sile-nced," Cantu said. 
individual and what you want to get from the college." 
Others from the Saint Mary's community presenting at the conference including Karen Chambers of the psychology department and Susan Alexander of the sociology department, who spoke on "The Impact of Media Exposure and Body Image: A Comparison of Text Versus Video." Catherine Pittman, associate professor of psychology presented "From Your Silence You Will Sing: Finding One's Voice Through Music and Chants in Feminist PP.dagogy.'' 
Assistant professor of theatre Katie Sullivan presented "Listen to Our Voices: Two Performance Pieces for Women." Marie Doyle, associate professor and chair of the education department and assistant professor of education Dale Banks presented a work­shop on "Math, Science, and Technology: Preparing Girls for the New Millennium." 
Student Callie Kusto presented "The Negative Effects of Religion on Women's Views of Their Sexuality." 
Monday, April 3, 2000

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 


Teach 
continued from page 1 
development program is like for them the classic answer is peda­gogy -they learn how to teach their students. What's happen­ing here is that they.are becom­ing students again," said Bridget Green. TAS coordinator. 
"Many people say the teachers seem so rejuvenated when they return to their classrooms: they have a whole ,new energy," Green continued. "It's not becausP they know how to teach better but because they remem­ber what ifs like to be a stu­dent. 
"Plus, the.y've been reintro­duced to current ideas and scholarly information that makes them feel appreciated as very intelligent individuals. For most of these teachers that's why they became teachers in the first place -because they loved learning and passing on that knowledge," Green said 
In order to encourage interac­tion and discussion, TAS semi­nars are limited to 15 partici­pants. With five seminars per semester, the program currl'ntly provides for 120 participants per year, 40 from each of three area school districts. 
TAS is funded by the WWNFF, the community and the College of Arts and Lettrs, so teachers participate free of charge. Although WWNFF funding will only be provided for the next two years, the coordinators of TAS hope Notre Dame will pick up the funding in the future. 
"I think we are trying to keep 
the program at this level of par­
ticipation because funding is 
limited and it keeps the semi­
nars interesting," Green said. "A 
huge part of the success of this 
program can be attributed to 
top-notch faculty members. We 
have wonderful, dedicated, 
excited, well-known and well­
published faculty contributing to 
the program right now." 

Prof to head U.S. alien species committee 
By ALLY JAY 
News Writer 

The introduction of a fow alien species into the U.S. has caused massive economic and ecologi­cal damage on a variety of fronts including agriculture, industry and public health. 
That's according to David Lodge, pro­

fessor of Lodge biological sciences at Notre Dame, who was recently appointed chair of the Invasive Species Advisory Committee (ISAC) by Secretary of the Interior Bill Babbitt. Invasive species are those that evolve in one geographic area and are purposely or accidental­ly relocated to another. Today's 
global society has increased the impact of invasive species, Lodge said. 
"In the past, many of those [invasive species] organisms would have been killod coming hero on a boat _journey which took about two weeks," said Lodge. "Now organisms are get­ting here on jets within a day or two and arc still very much alive." 
Recently exports have begun to addrnss the potential dangHrs posed by invasive• species. 
"It is one of the most impor­tant environmental issues in the world, and it is just being wcog­nized as such," Lodge said. "One of the major difliculties of deal­ing with invasive species is that you can't pass one law to keep all species out. Thflre arP thou­sands of ways they can get into the country." 
The ISAC was set up as part of the implementation of an execu­tive order issued by President Clinton. The order mandated the institution of an Invasive Species Council (ISC). 
The committee of 25 experts advises the !SC, which includes Babbilt, six other members of the President's cabinet and the administrator of the 
"In part I think I'm seen as representing the Midwest on this committee," said Lodge. "The Midwest's Great Lakes arc very much affected by an over­re presentatio n of exotic species." 
"Invasive species come in many forms," he explained. ''One of the more well-known invasive species lin the Midwest] is the zebra mussel, which is brought over from Eastern Europr, in ballast water on ships. 
"They caused billions of dol­lars in damage to pipPs and pumps mainly in the Great Lakes region. Invasive species also posfl a threat to human health as was the case with the outbreak of the West Nile-like virus in New York," he said. 
Lodge stressed the importance of recognizing the threat of inva­sive species on the environment. 
"While we all benefit from certain exotic species such as vegetables and fruits, we do need to be concerned about invasive species which impact human health negatively and bring about loss of' biodiversity," Lodge said. "Most people don't realize that exotic ecological species are one of the most important reasons for loss of biological diversity. Usually peo­ple think about clearing the rain forests, but invasive species are probably second in importance to that in decreasing native species." 
Soon, the ISC and the ISAC will work together to coordinate steps to handle invasive species and will prepare and issue a national Invasive Species Management plan. 
Lodge, a lake ecologist, has studied the effects of non-native aquatic animals on lake ecosys­tems. He was nominated for the ISAC position by the University's provost and received letters of support from scientists at vari­ous institutions around the country. 

Environmental Protection -------R---------------.----~ 
Agency. The [SC works with the 

b~kiiiin 
~
ISAC to develop polices to pre­vent and control the spread of exotic species. 

ROLFS 

~ 
fun lame 'P\a~..... 
Aoor Hol"e~ • \Jo\\e~ba\\ Tab\e Tenni~ • 'Poo\ 
.,.,..., 11111
~t -4...lb.. 
...... ...Ill~ 



lt"~
,...; -~ 
FRIDAY, APRIL 7 
B: .. ~~'•,_" 1 1 ; .-;;·PM 
SPORTS' RlfRE:o.:=;:,oN CENTER
.-----,--.--'--.,·~:t~;~~-;r ···-~·······' 


The Center for Asian,Studies presents An informal colloquium by Liu Zongkun Christianity's Coineback in China After the Cultural Revolution, Christianity came back to China first through the re-opening of churches to the public, and then through the renewed study of Christian themes by scholars not affiliated with the state church. Thursday, April 6, 4:00 209 O'Shaughnessy Liu Zongkun (PhD, Peking University) is a post-doctoral fellow at Notre Dame's Center for Philosophy of Religion. Co-sponsored by Campus Ministry.  


orld 


Monday, April 3, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Rebels force release of prisoners 
BOGOTA, Colombia 
Lf;ftist rP.bnls stormed a provincial jail, deto­nating a powerful car bomb to rip a hole in tiie prison wall and frc-,e 7 4 prisoners, officials said Sunday. Gucrrill,L'> from the National Liberation Army and the P1rnµle's Liberation Army unlrn1slwd automatic lire .Saturflay night against guards at the Modelo jail in Cucuta near the VenPzur>lan border. said rngional police com­mander Col. Hafael Cepeda. Prisoners inside the jail _joi1rnd in the onslaught and fighting contin­ued in tlw streets for more than an hour. A total or 74 inmates escaped, taking one guard with tlrnm as a hostage. Two prison guards were wounded and four prisoners wero killed, said Gen. Alfonso Arellano, operations director of lhP Colombian National Polir,e_ Most of the csrap,1ns were militants of the two rebel groups or lhP country's largest guerrilla group, the Hcvolutionary Armc•d Forces of Colombia. or FARC. 
Navy: Training won't affect coast 
SAN JUAN. Puerto Hico 
Warships will begin training Tuesday in waters off PuPrto Hico but will steer clear of a controversial training ground on the island of ViPquPs, tlw U.S. Navy said Sunday. A total of 18 ships from the United States, Colombia. Britain. Canada and the Netherlands will partic­ipatP in the maneuvers, Navy spokesman Jeff Cordon said. The exrffcises will take place on llrn high seas south of Puerto Hico, though some anti-minP training could be done as close as 12 rnil1's from shore. he said. "Vieques won't be involved at all," Gordon said. "This will all be way off thP roast." l'\avy exercises have been a c·1mtroversial issue in the U.S. territory since a bombing accirknt in the Vieques training ground killed a civilian security guard on April 
19. 1999. Protesters have occupied the bombing range since then to thwart furtlrnr exercises. 
Tornado cleanup continues 
FOHT WORTH, Texas 
Oflice workers retrieved business papers and belongings Sunday from a 35-story building damaged by last week's deadly tornadoes, while parishioners from one church gathered else­where to give thanks that more lives were not lost. Morn than 1,300 members of Calvary Cathedral lnttwnational sang and danced at a Fort Worth exhibit hall. About 100 people were attending Bible studies in the church Tuesday evrning when a tornado shredded the cathe­dral's roof and stripped walls from a prayer tower. "Let the rain fall," they sang Sunday with arms raisml. "Let the wind blow. There is no place I cannot go. I have a friend. Ilis name is Jesus." Hnv. Bob Nichols told the congrngation that Cod's grace prevented more lives from being fost. Four people were killed and another is presumed dead after the tornado hit Fort Worth and another hit Arlington and Grand Prairie. 
l•iiriidlWtttli11411
Dow AMEx: 
1005.03 

JONES '9·04 Nasdaq:
-58.33 
n 
4572.83 1 114.94 
NYSE: 

V 
647.70 "-2 03 

S&P 500: Composite 1-'98.58 
Volume:
10921.90 I, 193,200,000 
+ 10.66 
VOLUME LEADERS 

CONPJ.NY TICJ:ZR ~ CHANG!: $ CHANG!: PRICE 
VZRITAS SOFTWAR VRTS -981 -14.2500 1)1. 00 CTSC'O SYSTEMS CSC'O -t5.01 ,,.'3.-68SO 17. 31 LlNKAR '!'BC'H C'OR 1,LTC' -2. Rl1 -1. 6250 ss •.oo 01\ACLE CORP Oft.CL ·O.U -O.J775 78.0«:i DELL C~FU'rl!:R DELL +3 .36 +1. 7525 53. 94 MCI lfOJUJXON IN WCOM +6.4.6 +2, 7475 '5.31 .MICROSOFT CORP MSFT . .I.. 7i +J..8750 106 •.25 N1.SOAQ 100 SV..ll QQQ +2 .10 +1.:2500 109. 50 INT&L CORP INTC -t3.a:9 1-4,9400 131,·94 JDS UWIPHAS& JDSU •3. 71 +-4.. llOO l.l0 •.56 

Microsoft decision still pending 
Associated Pre•s 

WASHINGTON 
Talks between Microsoft Corp. and government lawyers failed after the company insisted on its own proposal to settle the antitrust lawsuit and not because of disputes between state and federal officials, people familiar with the negotiations said Sunday. 
The talks broke down Saturday, sending the case back to U.S. District Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson in Washington, who last fall issued a finding of fact that Microsoft used its monopoly powers to thwart competi­tion. A decision on the lawsuit is expected any day, and if Jackson sides with the gov11rnm11nt, he will bogin the lengthy process of determining a penalty that could inr.lude a breakup or restructuring of the company. 
Sources said government lawyers no longer were insisting on a breakup. but that Microsoft refused to accept proposals submitted by the Justice Department and 19 states who sued the company. 
Even before the states made new proposals Friday, '.'It was clear Microsoft was rejecting the govern­ment's proposal and insisting on their own approach," said an individual familiar with the government's posi­tion, who would not be quoted by name. 
"That" approach had a lot of loop­holes and would not have been effec­tive." 
Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates con­tended Saturday that "it became impossiblr. to settle because the Department of Justice and the states were not working together. Between them, they appeared to be demanding 
Bill Gates defends Microsoft in an antitrust hearing Saturday. Talks
either a breakup of our company or 
failed, resulting in the cases's return to court.
other extreme concessions ...." 

He did not provide details of the neys just days before the Justice to broker a settlement. Four months of company's offer to settle the case. 
Department filed its original complaint talks produced no agreement, and
Attorney General Richard 
in 1998. An agreement appeared like­Jackson was expected to issue a rulingBlumenthal of Connecticut rejected ly until government lawyers com­last Tuesday. 
Gates' claim. 

"The differences between the states plained that Gates reconsidered He postponed the decision and gave and the Department of Justice are details in an offer he made. The deal the sides until April 7 to reach a settle­fell through, and the government filed ment, but the talks ended Saturday
minimal when compared to the diver­gence between our side and suit. when Posner issued a statement say­Microsoft," he said. Last November, Jackson issued a ing the divisions were "too deep-seat­
finding of fact. He said Microsoft was a ed to be bridged." 
Describing the negotiations as "very 
complex," Iowa Attorney General monopuly in the market for computer "Microsoft is sailing into dangerous Thomas I\Iiller said "many factors" led operating system software, and that and uncharted waters," said Rich to the breakdown but "the position of the company used its power to put the Gray, an antitrust attorney in Menlo the states was not the cause of the squeeze on competitors' products. Park, Calif., who has watched the case 
failure." He assigned a mediator -Chief closely. "Judge Jackson has shown Microsoft officials -including Gates Judge Richard Posner of the U.S. that he has a pretty strong bent -negotiated with government attor-Court of Appeals in Chicago -to try toward the government's case." 
JAPAN 

Volcano evacuees worry about future 
Sunday for the first time on Friday for the first time but many seem wearied by
Associated Press 

since· Usu exploded back in 22 years, sending it two the tight quarters. Still, it to life last week, the lives miles into the sky. was the future rather than
Every April after the of more than 15,000 oth­More eruptions opened the present that was most 
snow melts, Katsumi Miki ers in this scenic corner of up several new craters, troubling.
has gone out on his tractor 
northern Japan remains and on the edge of Abuta, With rich soil, hot 
to till his vegetable farm on hold. a town of 13,000 that was springs and natural beau­
on the slopes of Mount 
And likP Miki, most evacuated before the ty. the area at Usu 's feet,Usu. 
aren't worried so much eruptions began, plumes home to about 51,000 peo­
But this spring, he's sit­about their lives now as of smoke continued to ple, is a paradise for farm­
ting in sweatpants and 
they are worried {-bout swell into the sky Sunday. ers, fishermen and hote­
slippflrs in a cramped 
their livelihoods. ·· In the cluttered shelter liers. 
emergency sheller, sur­
"It's been five days since where Miki was staying, While some have been
rounded by hundreds of 
1came here, and I have no children ran in and out of escorted back home byothers who fled the erup­idea how my crops arc the entryway. announce­authorities for quick visits
tion of the volcano on 
doing," Miki said. "I don't ments blared over a loud­to feed livestock and pets,
whose slopes they make 
care if I die, I just want to speaker and drying laun­people worry about whattheir living. 
go check on the farm." dry hung on every avail­will happen to farms while
Though about 2,200 
After days of seismic able surface. the farmers arc away, and
people were allowed to 
rumbling, Mount Usu The facilities were clean inns where all reserva­
return to their homes 
coughed up gas and debris and basic needs were met, tions have been canceled. 
----•-w------•--=------------,,• 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 3, 2000 

Archbishop calls for debt relief 
. Rodriguez says Catholics should encourage, follow pope's request 
By CHRISTINE McINTYRE 
New~ Writer 
As they sat in thP Snite Annenberg auditorium Saturday. students. faculty, administrators and members of the South Bend communitv were called to join the Catholic campaign to curb international dt>bt. 
It marked the last in a series of week-long Jubilee Oebt Relief events. Keynote speaker Archbishop Oscar Ilodriguez, former president of the Latin American Bishops Conference, echoed Pope John Paul ll's call for debt forgivrrncss for 41 severely impoverished coun­tries for the new millennium. 
"International debt is a dan­gerous obstacle to human development. It nffects human dignity and human rights," Rodriguez told representatives from Ghana, Haiti. Honduras and Cganda as well as the Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross communities. 
In attempting to repay for­eign debts. poor countries are forced to take money and other government resources away important developmental pro­grams, Rodriguez said. 
"[The] existence of debt has social and financial costs," said Rodriguez. "Money is taken from programs for school and 
health." This leads lo inade­quate prenatal care for preg­nant women, poor treatment and counseling for the sick and the denial of education to many children, he said. 
A major financial implica­
tion  of  high  debt  is  that  
invP.stors are  likely to  stay  
away.  

"IUnrepayable dnbt] discour­ages foreign direct investment. affects commerce and stifles the consumption and develop­rnen t of markets," 
"The Jubilee symbolizes a fresh start l'or the poor. The 
1.-year 2000 is an opportunity for justice and a solution for those countries in dnbl. God is the sole owner of the whole Earth. His people must administer the goods of' Earth according to God's plan," Hodriguez said. John Paul IT offkially named 2000 a ve,Lr of JubilPe, a tradi­tion dating back to Leviticus which emphasizes mending relationships and righting old wrongs. Rodrigm-iz offered 
according to ''The Jubilee symbolizes a ways in which 
pamphlet fresh start for the poo,: Catholics could compiled by answer tho pope's
The year 2000 is an 
t h e call. 
opportunity for justice
Ugandan "There must be Women's a.nd a solution for the a dialogue Network between· the
countries in debt." 
(UWN) and world of' econom­distributed ics and thn world at tile lec­Oscar Rodriguez of' ethics. Dnbt ture. This relief and hnlping
archbishop
makes it difficult for the countries to makn the capi­tal necessary to pay off their debts, according to the UWN. 
Rodriguez compared a coun­try's debt to an individual's debt. When individuals borrow money, they receive it directly, Rodriguez said. 
"If a country borrows money, citizens are not necessarily notified of the terms and con­ditions of the loan," Rodriguez said. 
Another important difference is unlike individual people, countries can't file for bank­ruptcy, he explained. But this is a chance for renewal. 
poor countries go together," he said. 
Rodriguez, along with other panel memh1:>rs including co­chairs student Angela Anderson and Jay Caponigro from the Crnter for Social Concerns, urged members of the audience to raise public consciousness. 
They also encouraged them to contact members of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank and Congress members and to urge them to support debt relief. 
A Mass at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart followed the lec­ture. 

A-bomb scientist criticizes nuke race 
By MARIBEL MOREY 
News Writer 

If nuclear war were to occur, students' dreams and hard work would vanish. "The young lives, the young dreams would be gonfl ... We would be wiped out in a mil­1is econ d," said Father Theodorn 1!11sburgh, univer­sity president emeritus. 
Ile thfrn introduced Sir Joseph Hotblat, cofoundcr of the Pugwash Conferences on Science and World Affairs, who spoke on "Averting Nuclear Anarchy: The Current Crisis in Arms Control" Friday night. 
As the only living scicrntist from the Manhattan project, Hotblat explained his rea­sons for involvement with the project. As a humanitari­an scientist, he did not want to sec Germany with all the nuclear power during WWII. 
"I was afraid of German scientists would have the same idea and would go on and would give Bitler the way to win tho war," Rotblat said. In 1939, he believed that "the only way to prevent [Hitler] from using the bomb would be to have one too." 
When Germany stopped working on the atomic bomb, so did Rotblat. 
Knowing that Germany would not be a nuclear threat, he believed he was no longer serving the good of humanity by working on the bomb. 
Nor did he believe nuclear power would be hoarded in future years. 
"We scientists had a pretty good idea of the drastic effects of the nuclear bomb, but we did not imagine that it could threaten a human race," Hotblat said. "We did not know society coulrl be so mad, so stupid to accumulate nuclear warhearls." 
For Hotblat, tho need of atomic weapons for national security art.er thr Cold War is a major problem. 
"Sooner or later, they will be used," Hotblat said. 
Instead of building war­heads, Hotblat hopes to make it so they will never be needed. 
"We need to work for peac<~ through peace, not through deterrence," Hotblat said. "We need to change the idea of security from focus­ing on national security to focusing on global security." 
At 92 years old, Rotblat has seen the birth and expansion of the nuclear age and presents tho danger of nuclear war from a personal perspective. Lecture atten­dees got the message. 
"[notblat] made me more convinced that taking action and interest can actually make a difference," said Erica Walter, a peace studies student. 



PROLIFE 0:0NFEREN'CE
• ·. · , -• · •. '. : .. '. .f... ·. , , • · " . •-· .. . I 
·Toe Hon,. 

lJ$~ ·­
:·; -01,:-,V ChJ.ir~~: ofP .Y:.. ~tiJ~can U1tive11tty o!Stubenvillc 

BeUes: For Life 
. Fr. Jo~el)!i, H~l'd , . . 
Dnc11orof1h0 Arnencu.n Bmctb1a1-Adv·1soty C.ommiltce 

---, 
' Monday, April 3, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 


Syria won't support Lebanese official's predictions 
troops might be deployed at the reported on Saturday, had
Associated Press 
Israeli-Lebanon border after an alarmed Israel and led to spec­lsra~li withdrawal from south ulation that the idea was unoffi­
BEIRUT, Lebanon 

Lebanon. cially backed by the Syrian gov­
Syria on Su11day distanced 
Leba1rnse Defense MinistPr Mnrnent.
itsdf from a Lop Lebanesr. offi­
Ghazi Zueiter's remarks, liowover, Syrian Foreign
cial's suggestion that Syrian 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION NEEDS YOU TO 
WORK FOR REUNION 2000! (June 7-11) 
EARN MONEY AND HAVE FUN AT THE SAME TIME. SHUTTLE FOLKS AROUND CAMPUS, REGISTER GUESTS IN THE DORMS, CARE FOR CHILDREN AT THE 
CHILD  CARE  CENTER  OR  ASSIST  AT  REUNION  
HEADQUARTERS.  THERE  ARE  MANY  JOB  
OPPORTUNITIES AVAILABLE.  

APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT STUDENT EMPLOYMENT 
(115 Main Building) 
OR 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
(100 Eck Center). 
(RETURN APPLICATIONS TO THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BY FRIDAY, MAY 5.) 
Minister Farouk al-Sbaraa, on a vacated bv Israel "would be one 
brief visit to Heirut, made it of the important possibilities." clear that Syria did not endorse Later, Zueitcr said his com­Zueiter's suggestion. ments were taken out of con­
"I think it is wrong for some text and that he was only of us to make some statements, expressing a personal opinion, even if emanating from pArson­but bv then alarm bAlls had al sympathy, that will reflect begun ringing in Israel with negatively or from which Israel Cabinet ministers warning of 
benefits  to  serious reper­ 
push matters  cussions.  
toward  an  "! think it is wrong for  Israeli Prime  
unpeaceful direction," al­Sharaa said  some ofus to make some statements ... that will  Minister Ehud Barak said such a move  
aftn meeting  re.fleet negatively."  was unlikely.'  
w  i  t  h  Israeli lead­ 
President E m i I e  Farouk al-Sharaa  ers believe that a unilater­ 
Lahoud.  Syrian foreign minister  al withdrawal  
Syria,  the  would deprive  
main power  Syria of lever­ 

in Lebanon. maintains 30.000 age in its on-and-off peace troops there, although none are negotiations. Syria has in the in the south, where guerrillas past used south Lebanon as a are trying to oust Israel from a bargaining chip because it is in zone its troops have held since a position to influence the 1985. Israel has said it will Lebanese guerrillas fighting withdraw from south Lebanon Israeli troops in the occupied in July. zone. 
On Saturday, Zueiter was For this reason, Syria and quoted as saying that asking Lebanon want Israel to con­Syrian forces to accompany the clude peace with them first Lebanese army to the areas before vacating south Lebanon. 
:o~~F'I'.II <:;<>::N"<:;~~...., 
To help termin.a.Ily ill area children. live their dreamsI 
Featuring tho music o-EC:ontempora.ry Christian. rccordina artist:s •--ratuD::1. &. Len.isk.i'"'7 perfu.rming son.gs from their recen.tly r.,1-e:,ased CD -Uelp me to DeUe-ve.-Plus a:uests. l'\4:usic in a lively and entertai.ttln.g environment! 
Good music, a:ood mes.Mage~ good cause!_ 
~~,~--~
C>~a.ughli.n .Auditori'llkn,.. St 1',,lary.. s Colleao 
' 
~1',7alce-A-VVh•h Pounda.do..r
l:oC Indiana. Inc. 
Tickets available at: FamJly Christian Stores. 
and the C>'La.ughli.n. .Audi'toriur:n. box o.fflcc 
$10.:50 

For more inf'orma.tion: 219.234.1262 e-mail: ta.1YDJ.leniski@hriinc COJU 

,------·--... ........ --------------,_ -------­
page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 


Private consultant launches Internet security system 
in-house flither by company employees or University in Pittsburgh, said tlrnre wern
Repelling the As<ociatt'd Pre•s 
consultants. 8,268 comput0,r attacks last year.computer bug The currnnt industry leadnr in Internet Corporations spent $7.1 bill ion in 1999
V 

SAN JOSE. Calif. security. Computer Associates on corporate security to protect themselves Analysts say a new type or Internet bur­International Inc., provides its customers against these kind of attacks. Those costs
Number of 
glar alarm systl'm may raise the bar in Uw with automat.nd internal syst11ms to moni­arr: r:xpected to reach $17 billion by 2003.
computer attacks in 8,268 
burgeoning and vital field of' computm· tor for potential attacks on Wob sprvors, according to lntornet analysts at Aberdeen
1999 
security. desktop computors and mainframes. Group in Boston, Mass. Most fH'ommPtTe ser.urity systems con­If' there is a potential flaw, the system Mark Kadrich, director of security for
Percentage of 
sisting of in-huuse staffers. But security rnsponds automatically. Conxion Corp., a Wr:b hosting company, is
businesses reporting 
consultant and author Bruce Scluwicr's Simon l'nrry. security business manager an oarly -and much appreciative ­
unauthorized 62 
now Countnrpan<' !nt<'rnet Security Inc. at ComputPr Associates, said his company Counterpano customer. Kadrich said tho
computer system use 
system, being laundrnd today, us<1s teams is not coucnrrwd about co1111rntition from sorvice rncently caught "script kiddies" try­
in 1999 of analysts working arounrl tho clock in Counterpane or similar systoms that use ing lo get into his system within ten min­;V!ountain Vic\\·, Cali/'., and Chantilly, Va., human analysts at remote locations to utes of their attempt.
Percentage increase 
lo scrutinize activity logs !'rum customers' watch for bn;ak-ins. "With tlrn logs being captured and ana­
of unauthorized use 42 
Internet sitPs. "WP havn seen in this industry that lyznd in real time, wo are now able to take
since 1996 
If the Counlcrpanc analysts notir:c some­throwing morn peopln at a problnm actual­immediate action to terminate the activi­thing fishy at II site -a potential harking ly doesn't solw it," he said. "Our approach tv," hn said.
Billions of dollars 
attempt, for example -they call tho cus­is to apply tc~chnology solutions to solve · 'Tm not awarn ol' any other service that
spent by corporations 
tonrnr, alert them lO the intrusion and help problems ratlrnr than throwing more warm concentrates on log aull event correlation
to protect against 7.1 
them plug thl' security breach. bodins at them." and management."
computer bugs in 
It's a field Sdrn11ier and son-ie analysts Perry said Computer Associates' cus­Other early partners and customers
1999 
say is going to explode as major corpora­tomnr pool has been growing rapidly as include Axont Technologies. Inc., Exodus tion·s Internet silPs become a crucial part cybercrime increases with tlw e-commerce Communications, PricewaterhousP Coopers
Billions of dollars 
of their lrnsim1ss. boom. and SecurityFocus.com.
expected to be spent 17 
"Computer security without monitoring is Sixty-two percnnt of husincssns and gov­John Pescatore, researr.h director for
to protect against 
kind of like having a car alarm go off in tho ern mcnL agnncins reported unauthorized Gartner Group technology consultants, said
bugs by 2003 
inner city," said Schneier. "It might make a ww nf thnir computer systems last. year in Counterparrn's systnm could he a ha.rd sell. lot of noise, but ovorymrn ignores iL" a survey by the FBI and San Francisco's "For companies with high downtimP
Cost in dollars per 
The so-called "outsourced monitoring" Computer S<1curity Institute. That number costs and in markets or geographies whern
month of new Internet 12,000 
svstcrn, which costs $12,000 a month. dif­was up f'rom 42 1wrceu1 in 191)(,. hiring and kPPping good security people is
security system 
l'ers from traditional Internet sorurity sys­The Computer Emergency Ilesponse expensive and hard. $150,000 a year will 
tems. which aro usually built and staffed loam, or Chin, at CarrrngiB Mellon be worth it," he said.
Information from !he Associated Press 

AOL debuts on Fortune 500 list 
enues of $189 billion, but Ford Exxon Mobil Corp., following
Associated Press 
Motor Co. dropped from sec­the merger of Exxon Corp., ond to fourth place, displaced previously No. 4, and MobilNEW YORK 
by fast-growing retailer Wal­Corp., ranked No. 6 in 1998. 
Dot-com companies may be 
Mart Stores Inc.. previously in General Electric Co.
minting millionaires at a his­third. remained firth in rcvcnun, but 
toric pace, but they have yet to 
GM's lead over Wal-Mart, led in profits, stuffing its col'­
make many inroads in the ven­
which had $166 billion in rev­l'ers with $10.7 billion. The 
erable Fortune S-00. 
enue, may look sizable, but grandfather of computer com­

Just one purely Internet company -America Online Inc. -broke into the ranks of the Old Economy stalwarts this year, and only at No. 337, in Fortune magazine's list of the 500 most largest companies. 
Other technology companies benefiting from the Internet boom climbed in the maga­zine's rankings, but there was little evidence of the high-fly­ing Internet startups. That's because the list is based on 1999 revenue, not the compa­nies' stock values. 
MCI Worldcom Inc., one of the world's largest carriers of Internet traffic, hit No. 25, up from No. 80, in the list released Sunday and appear­ing the magazine's April 17 issue. Dell Computer Co., the largest seller of computers in the country. went to 56 from 78. 
Microsoft Corp.. the company with the highest market value, rose to 84 from Wal-Mart has had annual panies, International Business growth in the double digits for Machines Corp. stayed in sixth more than a decade, while place, followed by Citigroup GM's revenue dropped in 1998. Inc., also unchanged from last 
Kareoke in Reckers 
In third place was oil giant year. 
from 9 -11 pm 

Saint Mary's College presents Tennesee Williams' play : Movie: Animal Ho DeBartolo 102 at ame show in R 
Thursday -Saturday, April 13 -15, 2000 
;~~;;·April 16at 2:30 p.m. ~MgfiiffD
little Theatre 
FOR THE ARrs 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
Fo, ticket information contact 284-4626
the Saint Mary's College Box Office at 
109, and Cisco Systems Inc., 
CASTING & ANGLING
which makes equipment for the Internet, 
CLINIC
advanci>d to J46 from 192. AOL wasn't the 
Three Sessions 
only history-maker. Amgen 
6:00-7: 15 PM 
Inc. becainf' the 
Open to ND Students & Employees
first biotechnolo­gy company, 
$8.00 Class Fee 
landing at 463. And Hewlett-
Packard Co .. No. 
CLASS DATES 
13, was the high­est -ranking 
APRIL 4 Fortune 500 
APRIL 11 

cornpany with a female chief 
N'RIL 18 

executive, Carleton Fiorina. 

General Motors 
Classes Held in the Joyce Center & Campus Lakes
Corp. remained No. 1 for the 
Equipment Provided but Bring Own if Possible 
12th consecutive 
Register in Advance at RecSports year, with re,· ­
TIMBERLAKE WERTENBAKER 
Directed by Reginald Bain 
Thurs., April 13, 7:30 p.m. 
Fri., April 14, 7:30 p.m. 
Sat., April 15, 7:30 p.rn. 
Sun., April 16, 2:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved Seats $9 Seniors $8 All Students $6 
Ticketi are available at laFortune Student Center Ticket Office. 
MasterCard"and Visa ardsrs call 631·8128 , 
I Monday, April 3, 2000 
Celebrate America :aecycles Day on November 15th. 
It would mean the world to all of us. For a. free brochure, please ca.11 1-800-CALL-EDF or visit our web site at www.edf.org 
;;;:!!f!,f UNfTEDSTJJTES 
POSTAL SERVICE•
&EPA ~ 


Complete the Circle. Keep Recycling Working. 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Marchers protest Confederate flag 
. Hundreds will meet pro-flag ralliers Thursday at Statehouse 
Associated Press 
CHARLESTO'.\I, S.C. 
'.'vlorc than 600 people set out Sunday on a five-day, 120-mile protPst march to Columbia to urge stale law­makers to move the Confederate flag from the Statehouse dome. 
"Take it down!," chanted some marchers. 
"The people of South Carolina -white and African­American -want the f1ag to come down." said Charleston Mayor Joseph Riley Jr., who had the idea for the march. 
"The purpose is to say the people of South Carolina are in step, and we want the Legislature to get in step with the people of South Carolina," said the mayor. who carried the blue state flag with its white palmetto tree and cres­cent as he led marchers into the street. 
The marchPrs will walk only during daylight hours and plan to arrive in Columbia for a rally on Thursday, when pro-flag supporters have also scheduled a Statehouse rally. 
The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People has called for a tourism boycott of the state, saying the Confederate flag help," he said. above the Statehouse in One of those who marched Columbia is a racist emblem. Sunday was former Gov. John 
Flag defenders say it is a West, a state lawmaker when symbol of Southern heritage the flag was raised by the all­and honors Confederate war white 1962 General Assembly. 
dead.  West, who  
Only state lawmakers  "The people South Carolina  served as governor  
can  move  - white and African­ from 1971 to  
the from dome,  flag the and  American -want the flag to come down."  1975, led an effort to get lawmakers  
several  who  raised  
plans  are  Joseph Riley, Jr.  the  flag  to  
under con•  Charteston mayor  ask  for  its  

sideration. 

Organizers of the "Get in Step" walk say it should be moved from the dome to a place of honor. 
Vans and shuttle buses will take people to the march so they can join as long as they can. lt will start each day where it ended the previous day. 
Novelist Pat Conroy, a South Carolinian. was on hand for the start or the march. But he said he would pick up with the marchers again on Thursday in Columbia. 
"They would find me dead on the highway if I tried to make the entire march," he said. 
Conroy said South Carolina lawmakers dO' not like being told what to do, but predicted the march will help resolve the issue. 
"It's going to be such hideous publicity, including this right here, that it will 
removal. 
"As I have had to say publicly, somewhat to my embarrassment, in hindsight one of the mistakes I made as governor is not tak­ing it down," he said. 
"It was not an issue then. Had it been an issue, l would like to think I would have taken it down." 
Paula Byers of James Island said she had two great-grand­fathers who fought for the South in the Civil War. 
"The Confederate flag is my heritage, but it should have been taken down at the end of the Civil War," she said. 
There was a single pro-flag demonstrator as the marchers left a park on the edge of the city's historic district after a brief rally. 
Carter Sabo of Charleston stood with a Confederate flag and said he wanted to make sure the flag is given a place of honor at the Statehouse. 

United in Prayer, ministry, and brotherhood 
Join us: Lenten Night Prayer, .Munchies, Social. 
For More Info: 
Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 1-3087 vocation. l@nd.edu 
When:. Wednesday, April 5th 9:00-10:15 p.m. 
Where: Corby Hall (next to Basilica) 
ANSWER ~
www.nd.edu/--vocation 
THECALL ~ 
,11MI IIOfll THI 11111¥11. 






VIEWPOINT 
ossi:RVER Monday, April 3, 2000
page 10 
Leaving without a destination 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Noire Dame, IN 4&556 024 Sourh Dini11~ Hall, Notre Dame, IN 465% 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  01JSINF.5S MANAGFR  
Noreen Gillespie  Tim L,rne  
AsST, M.\NAGJNG EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Tim Logan  Brian Kessler  

NF.WS EmTOR: Anne Marie Mattingly V!EWl'OINf EDITOR: Lil,1 Haughey 
SPORTS EoITOR: Kmv Smith 
SCENE EDITOR, ,\mamb Greco 

SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Mollv McVoy 
PHOTO EDITOR: Liz Lang . 

ADvi:RnSJNG M.-\NAGl'R: Pa, Peter. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chis Avila 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEil AUMINISl"RATOR: Adam Turner 
CoNTROLI.ER: Bob Woods 
GRAPIJILS EDITOR: Jo,c Cuellar 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE M.-\NAGrn/GENERAL INFO............. (,31-7471 
FAX. .. ... .. . .. .. . ...................... 6.'\ 1-6927 
ADVERTISING............. ,.......................63 )-6900/884() 
observcrii!1darwin.cc,nd.edll EDITOR lN CHlfF .................................... 63 l -4'i42 MANAGING EmTOR/A-;sT. ME .................... 6.'ll-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE......................................6.'l J-5 3Ll NEWS..........................................................651 •'>323 observer.obrnews. l@nd.tdu 
VIEWPOINT. 
···························.. ········631-5303 observer. vicwpoim. l@nd.edu 
SrORTS ........ . ············....................... 631-4543 
observer.sporcs. l@nd.edu SCENE........................................................ 631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAI1', M.\RY's ..........................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO.......................................................631 ·8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obsm•er.1Jd.ed11 for dailv updates ofcampus news, spores, features and opinion columns. as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for

weather for up-co-rhe 
weekly student reviews
minute forecasts 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
and rates of prinr•ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer 
archives to search for 
articles publis"hed afrer 
to meet the editors and 
staff

August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper rublished in prim and online by the smdems of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advercisemenr.s based on content. 
The news is reporred as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe;najoriry ofche Ediwr in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant ,\,lanaging Editor and department edirors. Commentaries, letters and cohmrns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe 
Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available co all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through leners is encouraged. Leners co the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding, Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMike Connolly. 
~.,_·-.,.. 
t ,__ •-...., 

Back when I was a young and inno­cent sophomore. I would read The Observer and note that the major topic of most columnists who were seniors was the extraordinary and frightening fact that they were, in fact, seniors. 
This simple mat­ter of status occu­pied the minds of many a columnist. And ·after week three, it was rather, shall we say, redun­dant.-sound.ing. 

So, I told myself, I would never obsess furiously about my final year in col­lege. If I did, I rn­tainly wouldn't expose tlrn rest of thr public to my dithering. But guess what'? 
l am now ,t senior. I now understand. And now I will subject the rest of' the public to my dithering. 
In almost exactly two months, I will step onto the podi~1m in front of LeMans. It will be a very solemn moment. I will step for~ard in my black cap and gown and accept my blue and gilt diploma. Ilaving watched all my friends experience the same heady moment, I will celebrate with tlrnm omi last time. 
After this auspicious and promising beginning to tlw rest of my life, I will head off to. head olT to ... Oh, wait, I forgot. That's the entire problDm Imm. don't haw any pla.r,e l.o head ol'f' TO. 


(And yes, I know it's bad grammar to end a sentrmce with a preposition. I am, after all. an English major. It's just that I don't really care anymore. Senior apa­thy is a dangrmrns malady.) 
Since I am an english and philosophy major, I will not lw joining the ranks of corporatP America, ready for my 80­hour work week and my $40,000 start­ing salary. For one thing. I would last about 30 sBconds in that environnwnt. For anotlrnr, after snPing the social jus­tirn classes on my transcript. they wouldn't hire me nven if I got down on my 
Since I am an english and
k1rnes and lwgp;ud. the roundabout Allnr all, it would run philosophy major, I will nol be way of saying contrary to their prin­that I have a
. joining the ranks (~{ corporate
ciples to hire someone littln over two
America, ready for my Bo­
who actually discussns mo.nths before sweatshop conditions hour work week and my I am pushed for a gradn. $40,000 starting salary. into tlw harsh 
Nor will I be joining the ranks or the teach-1;rs. This is because either I or my students would be lying dead on the ground within the_ first five minutns of class. And to be honest.. I don't fancy sp1rnding the Jrnst decades of my lifo in jail. (Nor do I relish being talked about at my 10th year reunion as "that chick who ended up in the slammnr.") 
And in fact. I'm not evnn doing the traditional thing !'or peopln who don't yet want to join the harsh world of rnal­ity. Namnly, graduate school. In fact, I have !men so mired in apathy that I not only havnn't applied to a singln gradu­ate institution; I haven't ,wen taken tlw GHE or the LSAT. In f'act, I don't evt~n know which graduate program I would even want to enter. And let's be honest. Is it really worth it to toil away for eight years teaching bratty freshmen "Introduction to Grammar" and spend­ing massive portions of your 20s in a library cubbyhole researching an obscure linguist so that you can gPt a piece of paper that si1ys that you're actually qualified to tnach the aforn­mentioned bratty freshmen unlPss you're rnally passionate about it in the first placn? No. 
Which is 
pretty much 
light of rnality, 
and I have no 
idea what I'm doing. I have no id<m what I want to be doing. 
Which pretty much conc!udns this scared senior's rant and which will hopefully ease her obsession with grad­uating. And to the underclassmen who think I'm obsessing to tho point of bore­dom -don't worry. 
Your time will comn. 

Nakasha llhmad is a senior at Saint Mary's. lier column appears euery other Monday. 
The r,iews expressed in this column are tho.<w qf the author and not neces­sarily those qfthe Observer.; 
j 
DILBERT 

E 

:!
0 
'!
I'M THINKING 

0 
!!l 
~ 
u 'ii 
A.BOUT GOING OUT 

\ll)" 
E 
,.,C 
" 
..

.,, 
"'.
.. 

= 
0 
.,
" 
.. ~ • 
" 
.~
E 
0 
::, ~ 
0 
0 
" 0 0 Q 

t:: 
4.) 

-E 
Q 0 
.!:.. 
:r 
DO YOU 
NEED A 
NOTE 

FROM MY DOCTOR? 

SCOTT ADAMS 
NO, IT'S 
BEEN OBVIOUS 
FOR A 
LONG TIME. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"I}ind the three major administrative problems on campus are sex for the students. athletics for the alumni and parking for the faculty." 
Clark Kerr president, University of California 
___ .......... -~---·•--·-· 
---------------w.....,
___________________,______ cc-_____________ 


VIEWPOINT 
Monday, April 3, 2000 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Ref erring to duLac on police debate 
The recent discussion regarding the University of Notre Dame Security Police prompts me to draw your attention to page 43 of duLac. 
For those who have misplaced their copy, I quote: "The University of Notre Dame Security/Police Department ... is fully authorized as a police agency by the State of Indiana." 
You should count yourself lucky that they treat students as compassionatP-ly and generously as they do. Keep up the good work. officers! 
Sue Hinderlider 
Rector, Howard Hall 
March 30, 2000 


IBM is alienating its workforce 
I endorse John Goetz's request in the letter in the March 29 issue of The Observer for those in the Notre Dame com­munity to vote IBM stock proxies for the employees' resolu­tion on IBM pensions and medical benefits policy. 
IBM made the pension transition to boost earnings, apparently thinking shareholders would look favorably on the move. However, shareholders appropriately care about the bottom line now and into the future, and a company that cuts pensions and alienates its workforce is going to be an unprofitable company in the future. 
IBM's actions will hurt profits. Therefore, we should urge the Notre Dame community -including Notre Dame's con­siderable endowment -to vote for this resolution on April 
25. 
Teresa Ghilarducci 

Associate Professor of Economics March 31, 2000 
Viewpoint is now accepting letters for its senior week edition. If you would like to submit a "Letter to the Editor" to appear in that issue please submit it to ..Lila at 
observer.viewpoint.1@nd.edu. 
Please label your letter: Senior Week. 
OBSERVER page 11 
Praising the pope's actions 
Pope John Paul II. at the end or his remarkable visit to tho Holy Land last week, went to the Western Wall in Jerusalem and placed a piece of paper into a crack. Written with the same hope that all who go to the wall share -that God will read it -the paper offered an apolo!':,'"Y-
Darby Harn

The pope asked for forgive­ness for the Catholic Church's transgressions in the past, reaching back hundreds of University 'of years to the Spanish Iowa Inquisition and the Crusades. 
And still for some, this is not enough. 
Though the pope's visit to Israel was very well­received, some still want an outright apology from the pope regarding the Holocaust, specifically the failure or Pope Pious XII to speak out against the Nazis during World War II. The truth is that Pious was an ambivalent figure, one who more than likely consciously chose not to raise his voice for the Jews. 
At the same time, though, according to Suzanne fields of the Washington Times, there arc sur­vivors' letters testifying that the Vatican at the 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
'.·.. 

' 1};~,'.;f·, 
, ! : ! @

/, ,c::-y­
-------~ . \
..,~ ---~~:_-__..,."+"\ ~-~
--~-1 

---... ,_. ··­
··----. -­
time did save those Jews that it could; the Vatican itself was constantly under threat by Hitler. What's more is that Jews were not the only tar­gets of the Holocaust. Gypsies, homosexuals and Catholics were also sent to concentration camps. 
Even as the pope makes historic outreaches to Jews, he is criticized for not doing enough. The demands for an apology are too exacting and at times appear selfish. Even Israeli Cabinet minister Baim Ramon said in a news story that ran on Reuters, "I don't think the Jewish people can ask for more." 
Who could ask for more from a man who, in deteriorating health. made a monumental pilgrim­age to a land where vandals desecrated his land­ing area'? The bravery and certainly the humility of his holiness are hard to question -even harder is his sincerity. 
Darby Harn attends the University ofIowa. This column first appeared in The Daily Iowan at the University ofIowa and is reprinted here courtesy of the U-Wire. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


~;-,t

,, i ; ' 7fI1J 
! 

I rz,~?.
,I 1 1 

~ --"' ­
Too much loving in the labs 
/I 
,,,v. .->·~ /.:: : 
· 
l-'1 , / 

~~ 
==,.12!/J~ L,,d) f;/ .... ~ 
I(~l-~:t__::_L-1d. -----····[~-l 
It's a free country and a permissive society, but there are still norms of "customary decent behav­ior" that need to be observed in public. 
This also relates to the discussion on sex recent­ly in columns, about sex and love. Is it too much to ask couples to refrain from excessive show of affection (intimacy?) in the computer clusters? There is something like this going on in at last one. where I work. 
· The couple is working, but at the same time get­ting rather intimate, sometimes verging on fore­foreplay. Kissing, caressing and snuggling ­unmindful of their suroundings. This is happening all the time -as if that's the only time they can get together. 
When you are seriously at work, you don't want something like this to distract you. An occassional kiss or hug is fine, but dreamy-eyed whispering sounds more like a soap opera. Could the love­birds leave their love-fest at home? 
Noman Sattar 
Graduate Student 
Government 
April 2, 2000 
Need a job? Edit for Viewpoint! 
(Yes, it pays.) 
for info call Lila at 1-5303 

page 12 Monday, April 3, 2000 
The portable computing world 
We Hve in a world today thaL is constantly 011 th,~ move and on the go. 
This has created a. new line of portable devices, which arc both powerful. and convenienl. There arc many on the market -everything from full-blown laptops to small devices that aren't as µmv­
erful as a pocket calculator. 
But there urc some noticeable front-runners, and there are some fantastic things on the hol"i­zon that promise to be "must­haves" for all of you out tlwre who arc techies. 
The most successful and prob­ably the most rerngnized hand­held computing dcvir.e is the 

palm pilot from 3Com. The  Mike Revers  
newest version out right now is  
Lhe Palm VII ($450 plus $25  
monthlv for the srrvirel \.Vhi<'h has a b·uilt~in cellular modem,  access derded  
allowing for its users Lo quickly  
connect and download informa­ 

tion to the d1wir.e from anvwhf're that thev ran receive rnllular access. Ilowever. ·another product that 3Com 
has just come out with, thP Palm Ille ($450) has also 
r.aused some attention, as it is the first color device that 
3Com has ever produced. Though, beyond a color inter­
face. the Palm Hie doesn't have anything new to offer 
The palm device, although successful. is not the only portable choice for consumers. There is a new devke. based on the palm operating system. called the Visor from Handspring.com that was created by the founders of the palm pilot. This new device is just as reliable, yet it has an expansion slot on the back of it, which allows for the addition of special "Gameboy-like" cartridges. This might mean that you could buy games. more mem­ory or even a global positioning devir.e if the need be. 
ThP most attractive thing about this device is the price. At a mere $150, it is cheaper than both of the lat­est versions from Palm. 
~evertheless. for the student budget. I would recom­mend one of the older palm pilots like the Palm Ill. which is pretty competitive with the handspring. both in cost and functionalitv. 
The rnmbination ~f organizers and other services. surh as cellular telephony or Internet access. is becom­ing the hot trend in portable devices. This, coupled with tlw new technology of smaller size but larger storage, will allow portables to see nm\ development in the mar­krt. l think that we may see the portable market ereate dPvices that are almost Star Trek or Star Wars in nature. where you can watch television, make a phone call and trade your Internet stocks from one portable clfwice. So this obviously will beg the question, "Do we really need all of that?" Well, like most answers you get at l\'otre Dame, it depends. Those who are constantly on the go, like consultants and salespeople, might find great use in these devices. But I believe that it would b<' nothing more than an expensive toy for the average per­son. 
The main benefit that many of the organizers give the user is alleviating the need to carry around lots of memos and papers stuffed into a leather binrler. Most of the devices allow you to place them into a cradle-like device that connects to your computer and synchronizes the schedule and memo functions with your notes that you might type into the computer or receive through e­mail. But the new devices being offered that combine thr, newer r.ellular technologies and services are really what are on the cutting edge for personal digital assis­tants. 
With all of these devices coming on the market, the consumer must be educated about which one is the best buy, so as not to be ripped-off. In all honesty, by the time you finish reading this column. another device will bl' offered with newer fealures -'-and probably for a lower cost. Therefore, you must always stay up on the special deals and the special discounts that the individ­ual stores or Internet retailers might be having. The old caulion of "'buyer beware" still rings true with the pur­chase of a PDA, but the advice that vou should take from this is don'L get caught up in tl;e hype. Buy whal you will need and use. not something that is going to bt' a toy. I personally have a Palm V and use it for my cal­endar. memos and rnntacts, which is all I needed. Dcr.ide what you personally need before you surrender 300 or more of your dollars. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsen,er. 

Senior art students at Saint Mary's currently have their arnvork on display at the Moreau Galleries. The exhibition showcases works of relevance to the artist. The artists have used various mediums and styles to express matters of personal symbolism. 
photos by: NELLIE WILLIAMS 
SMC senior artists display their work at Moreau 

By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
Scene \X'rirer 
Senior artists at Saint Mary's College take a broad view on lhe world. Describing their feel­ings towards poverty, environment, abandon­ment and nudity were some of the ideas seven art majors used in their senior comprehensive. 
Beth Parin, Kate Hyan, Katy Massey. Megan Stanley, Cara Kotas, Kathleen Foley and Valerie Malecki have all spent the last couple of months working diligently on their senior art compre­hensives. 
"This particular group of seniors fulfilled their potential. I couldn't ask for anything more from them. It's really culminated their experience and education," said Johnson Bowles, director of the Moreau Galleries. 
Instead of just doing any kind of artwork, they did pieces that meant something to them. 
''They did something more profound," Bowles said. "There is a part of' themselves in their work." 
Foley. who had spcnl a year abroad in Ireland her sophomort> year. used part of her experience from being a tcar.her's assistant in Ballymun for the theme ()f her artwork. 
"These collages represent my memories of Ireland. I know I will not forget Ballymun with its dirt and crime. and the sad storit>s and hopes of 12 little girls whose lives have forever changed minr,," rolcy wrnte in her artist's statement. 
For the past three months. Foley has been try­ing to express her memories of Bal!ymun into her collages. "I wanted to get tho idea of memory across -some fading, some clear." she said. 
A little closer to home is Kotas' concern for the 
environment in her home state, Colorado. She feels the development of cities and suburbs is growing into natural an~as and ruining them. lier piece, "Construction vs. Conservation." was created using diff'erent fibers. She even gr<\W her own grass specifically f'or the piece. 
"The cold !weather! stunted the growth of thn grass," she said. 
Still. she was relieved to have her comprehen­sive over with. "It's exciting to sefl it all comp, to a finish and to celebrate. There's an overhanging stress all semester," Kotas said. 
After her father died unexpectedly in 1995, Massey was given a super-ball to "clutch as a stress reliever." She decided to create a wholfl bunch of ball-like figures. using mixed media. 
"The super-ball symbolizes a journey." she wrote in her statement. "A journey of alteration and self growth due to the absence of my father. I believe that these mixed mediums have helped me interpret and produce abstract forms that can relate to my self exploration during these years." 
Another senior, Malecki, feels that each human is a living work of art. She states her goal of her art was to "present the nude figure in a way which counters these responses; to reinterpret the nud11." 
Although this was her final art project for her college career, Foley fr.els it is unfinished. "I always wanted to add more. I still do, I don't see [my collages! as complete." 
For Rowlns, however, these seniors have already completed everything asked out of them. 
'Tm a little bit choked up," Bowles said. 'Tm impressed and proud at how hard they've worked and how far they've come." 

Monday, April 3, 2000 page 13 

Fisher residents embody hall's motto well 
By MICHAEL LEWIS 
:>ct'l\t' Wri1cr 
With a $750,000 donation from Mr. and Mrs. Frod J. Fisher, Notrr Damr built a rnsidNJC<' hall bearing lhe family's name in 195~. 
Ironically, onl' of t)ic dorm's fornrnr rcs­ir!Pnts. Hcgis Philbin. givr:s away more than that sum of money regularly on "Who Wtrnl..; to He a Millionaire'?" Philbin shows a picture of his old room. 218, and the current resident carh year during l'oothall sr:ason on his morning television show with Kathv Loe Gifford. Joe i\fontana is anottwr well:known former Fisher Ilall rnsidimt, though lhn dorm il'mlf has a low prolik. 
Fisher residP.n ts predominantly share the opinion that tilt·) dorm is not a world­dass facilitv. but thev are tliankful that tlwy can be-a part of the strong rommuni­ty. 
"I go to Purdue all tho time and I talk about our dorm u lot." junior Mike Andree said. "We may have the stinkiesL dorm on campus. but we definitely have the nicest peoplc>." 
··Ev(!!l during finals week, the Big r nrnkes you smilr." said Fisher junior Brian Nolt'n. rr.fnrring ttJ the building's most dis­tinguishing mark. lie brought up another interPsting point about tlw hall's aesthetic qualitifls by saying, "Sometimes, I wonder why the only trees left on South Quad are in front or Fisher." 
The physical plan of Fisher I!all does not quite measure up to the standard set by the Basilica and the Administration Building, but the ball houses a vibrant, divrrsP. spirited, caring community. Fathrr Hichard Warner. counsr.lor to the pr1'.sid1'nt and direc-tor of Campus Ministry. ,rnd Fatlwr Tim Srully, vice pres­idPnt and senior a.ssodatP provnst. live in Fislwr and contribute imnrnasurably to thi: solidarity in tlrn dorm. 
"It's bAen a gmat first yeaL" nrw Hector Falhrr Hobert :'vl.oss said. 'Tm impressed with the spirit of the men in Fisher Hall. and l'm looking forward to a lot of growth and twen closer cooperation as a commu­nitv nPxt vear." 
·hw 185 residents form a tight-knit rnmmunity. This year has challenged the hall with Andy Oonlan's injury in London and another n,sident's bout with cancer. But tlwsP Pvents only servPd to bring Fisher togctlrnr to support ancl pray for these students and their families, The lcvr.l of care that students express for each other was the thing that most impressed freshman Haymond Aftandilians after his first few weeks in Fisher Hall. 
When asked about his first imprt'ssions of Fisher Ila!!, sophomore Morlev Fortier said, .. It looks Iike an old apart­ment building, but I had an awesome section last year and we all immedi­ately became good friends." 
Fisher Hall co-presi­dent Tonn Polcari said, "\V{~ might not be one or the most well known dorms on campus because of our small size, but I would sav the small number of people in the dorm allows evervonc to gf't to know eacl; other and creates a strong sense of dorm spirit." 

Originally, every room in Fisher was a single and the building housed graduate students. In the mid-1970s, renovations knocked out walls and created doubles and quads and Fisher became an undergraduate resi­dence hall. Fisher will undergo a $1.7 million renovation this summer that will give the hall a much-needed face-lift, with everv 11oor and the exterior receiving signi!icant attention. 
Andree said, "We may not be stinkin' next year; it may bn nice in here. The ren­ovation could change our reputation." 
But Fisher Hall is known for more than their size and appearance. The dorm's signature event is the Fisher Hegatta. This annual event will take place on April 29 at Saint Mary's Lake. Since 1987, each hall on campus has sponsored a team that makes and then races a boat across the lake. 
On the afternoon br.f'ore the Hegatta, Fisher Hall will host a free roncert in front of the Rockne Memorial featuring Umphrey's McGee. The race starts at 1 


p.m. on Saturday afternoon, and the coun­ty fair-like atmosphere will come to Notre Dame's campus with music, food and games around the lake. The final event of the weekend is the annual Regatta dance. 
"I think it's one of the biggest campus­wi de events that a lot of people know about and look forward to every yflar." two-time Regatta chairman Phil Bomeli said. "It's a lot of work, but it's really, really nice on Hegatta day to see all your work come to fruition and to see everv­body having a good time." · 
The hall has an energetic atmosphere with good participation on interhall sports teams and perennial success in these competitions, despite the hail's small size. 
Defensive lineman Dahx Marrs said of the Fisher football team's 7-6 semifinal loss to Knott Hall, "The championship game was played in the semifinals." 
Another unique aspect of Fisher I!all is the high daily mass attendance. During the first semester nearly 10 percflnt of the dorm's residents were down in the chapel at 11 p.m. to pray \Yith Moss, Warner or Scully. Fisher Hall also hosts weekly Eucharistic adoration from 11 p.m. on Monday until mass on Tuesday night. 
Fisher Hall is distinguished by its resi­dents, who are active intellectuallv. athlet­ically. socially and spiritually. The hall's motto is "Discipline, Unity, Respect and Concern," and these qualities define the students. faculty and staff that make up the Fisher Hall community. 


-Notre Dome Co/lt~fJium Musicwn performance ut 8 JJ.rn. in tlw Busilicu 
-Beuinnino of Notre Dame Student Exhil;ition u1 Snitc 
Art rvtusewn feoturin<J tlic works <~f I 3 l>ar:J1elor·s srudents unr1 fiV<' musrcr's stuctents. Ex/1i/;irion will run t/irouo/1 i\ltuy d l 
-Notre Dome sympho11u orc/wstro will he pc1fonnino th<~ir sprinq Concert ot s p. ,n_ in Wushinoton Hull 
-AcoustiCafe in LaFortune !.J-J2 Jun. 
-"T<>!J Strff!J 2" in Jo J DeBurtoJo ar 10.:1,) run. -.52 admission 


... 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 3, 2000 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Sosa, McGwire square off in Cardinals' season opener 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 
The matchup is being billed as Mark Mr.Gwire vs. Sammy Sosa. 
After all lhe offseason changes in St. Louis and Chicago, maybe ils time to focus on the Cardinals and the Cubs. 
"It's such uld news," Mark McGwirP said of the home run race between the two sluggers that has captivated the sport the past two seasons. "Both teams have improved them­selves." 
Those improvements will be on display Monday as the ~cGwire's Cardinals open their season against Sosa's Cubs,
.. 
who split a two-game, season­opening series in Japan against the New York Mets. 
Kevin Tapani (6-12) starts for the Cubs against Darryl Kile ( 8­13). who makes his Cardinals debut after being acquired from Colorado .in the offseason. 
The Cubs, 67-95 last year, are fortified by the additions of second baseman Eric Young, catcher Joe Girardi and pitcher Ismael Valdes, plus the upcom­ing return of pitcher Kerry Wood. 
"Whenever he's ready to join us, he will lift our staff to great heights," manager Don Baylor said of the 1998 NL Rookie of the Year. "He's a guy who can match up with a lot of No. 1 s." 
The Cardinals, 75-86 last year, added starters Kile, Pat Hentgen and Andy Benes, clos­er Dave Veres, second base­man Fernando Vina and center fielder Jim Edmonds. 
"Everything's great," McGwire said. "It needed to be done." 
The team has improved to the point that manager Tony La Russa is toying with the idea of moving McGwire from No. 3 in the lineup Lo cleanup, ahead of Edmonds or Ray Lankford. 
Not only that, there's new long ball company in the NL Central to spread the spotlight. Ken Griffey Jr. was the one attracting crowds this spring, and it's the Reds, not the Cardinals, who are expecting media crushes all season. 
"If it's like that, it's much better for us," Sosa said. "it'll give us a little break." 
La Russa doesn't mind the two getting attention, if it's deserved. 
"The focus on McGwirc and Sosa comes from the media as much as the fans," La Russa said. "I don't think there's anv­thing wrong with that part ~f the game getting a lot of atten­tion, as long as the ton.ms arc, too." 
McGwirc, who sat out the last two spring games with a sore back, said he'll be fine for tho opener. He's had a bulging disc for aboul a dozen years and pain occasionally 11arns up. 
"I laugh inside when people write about it," McGwire said. "When you have as bad a back as I du, and yuu do what I do, it's inevitable." 
The Cubs got back to town Fridav and most have been catching up on sleep ever since. Sosa said he slept fur 15 hours on Saturday and first baseman Mark Grace got in 11 hours. They promise not to use jet lag as an excuse in their first North American series. 
"It's all up here," said Sosa, pointing to his head. "I don't get tired." 
The Cardinals could have made the Japan trip and gotten the opening-day jitters out of the way, but voted against it, with McGwire the most vocal detractor. 
He repeated his opposition to such a venture on Sunday, although he and manager Tony La Russa also wanted to make it clear that it wasn't because of McGwire that the team gave the thumbs-down to Tokyo. 
"It's just my opinion, and I don't have to agree with what major league baseball wants to do," McGwire said. 'Tm one guy. Everybody I talk to thinks the same way, but they're afraid to say it. I'm not." 
Sosa, for one, was glad he went. 
"I enjoyed the trip," he said. "It was great. It was a beautiful presentation, beautiful opening day, unbelievable." 
And he didn't care what 
McGwire thought about it. 
either. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m, at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cencs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Need help with a pro1ect?  For fall semester 4-bedroom, 2 full  Curatorial Assistant  
NOTICES  Complete Desktop Publishing ser­vices are available at  FOR RENT  baths, washer/dryer, basement with hot tob, new furnace, security sys­ WANTED  Wanted for Snite Museum of Art. Work study is available 10-15  
THE COPY SHOP  tem. Call for showing. 277-0636.  hours/week for 2000-01 school  
Are you moving to Boston next fall  Lafortune Student Center  HOUSES FOR RENT:  Teacher Wanted:  year.  
and looking for a roommate? Want  Call 631-COPY  1) 5-bedroom, $ 1000/month.  ND-St. Mary's Graduation, 4-bed­ ND/SMC families need teacher for  Responsibilities include scheduling  
to live near Harvard Square? I'm  2) 4-bedroom, $900/month.  room home, Arlington Heights, 2  next year to instruct children in  tours and entering computer info.  
going to graduate school and look­ FULL COLOR  3) 3-bedroom, $700/month.  miles from campus(219) 273-0625.  home setting Part-time position.  Fine arts major with knowledge of  
mg tor a female interested in shar­ Copying  Call Bil\ at 675-0776. We'll make  Salary/vacation negotiable.  FileMaker Pro and design programs  
ing an apartment in Cambridge,  Printing  almost any changes to the houses  preferred, but not necessary  
Mass. Call Emily at 634-3142  Scanning  FOR SALE  Summer employment: Art educa­ Call curator of education Shannon  
THE COPY SHOP  1721 Rarick: 3-bedroom, Family  tion asst. for Snite Museum of Art  Masterson at 631-4435 for more  
THE COPY SHOP  LaFortune Student Center  room with fireplace, fenced back­ Beautiful brass bed, queen size,  Assist Education Curator with sum­ info.  
La.Fortune Student Center  Call 631-COPY  yard, c/a, gas heat, across from  with orthopedic mattress set and  mer youth art program focusing on  
Store Hours Mon-Thur: 7:30 a.m.-Mid  Fax it fast!  park, very safe neighborhood. $995/month. 12-month lease.  deluxe frame New, never used, still in plastic. $235. (219) 862-2082.  museum objects and related hands­on activities.  PERSONAL  
Fri: 7:30 a.m.-7:00 p.m.  Fax it fast!  Call 232-4527. Close to campus  June 5th to July 28th, 10  
Sat: Noon-6:00 p.m.  Fax it fast!  (219) 340-1844 (616) 683-5038  GET THE HELL OUT OF HEREI  hours/week.  TWO MORE YEARS!  
Sun: Noon-Mid  Sending and receiving  Mexico, the Caribbean or Jamaica  Fine arts major with exp. Teaching  TWO MORE YEARS!  
Free pick-up and delivery'  THE COPY SHOP  Look! New home for rent.  $250 round-trip. World-wide desti­ and/or working with children pre­ 
- Call 631-Copy  Lafortune Student Center  3.4 bedroom, 3-bath, cathedral ceil­ nations cheap. 1-800-575· TECH.  ferred.  Way to go Mom! Most people would  
We're open late so your order will  Our Fax# (219) 631-3291  ings, fireplace, refrigerator, range,  June 26th to July 28th additional  never dream of doing what you are.  
be done on time!  disp, dish, washer/dryer, gas heat,  '91 Red VW Jetta:  work study !lours -if eligible - 
THE COPY SHOP  cla, 2-car garage, family room,  New tires,  with national youth sports program  Ninal Here's you're classified, you  
THE COPY SHOP  LaFortune Student Center  close to campus. (616) 683-5038.  belts,  to make a total of 40 hours/week if  Rouse girl!  
LaFortune Student Center  High-speed copying Color copying  (219) 232-4527. (219) 340-1844.  radiator,  desired.  
EXTENDED store hours during  Resumes Business cards Fax ser•  clutch.  Plus room and board included June  pq  
finals week  vice Desktop publishing & a whole  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT  Excellent condition. No rust. Great  26th to July 28th.  thanks for helping me with my job  
Mon-Fri: 7:30 am-Mid  lot morel Prompt pick-up & delivery  SCHOOL YEAR. GOOD AREA  mileage. Very sharp. Call (219)  Call education curator Shannon  stuff. If I'm in NO and you're in the  
Sat and Sun: 10:00 a.m.·Mid  Call 631-COPY  NORTH.277-3097.  277-9683 after 6 p.m. $3750.  Masterson, 631-4435, ASAP.  North, how funny will that be? mk  

Monday, April 3, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
ROWING 
Rowers sweep ho01e regatta against Drake 
Special to The Ob•erver 
Notre Dame, competing in only its second-ever home regatta, swept all four races Sunday against Drake in cold and rainy conditions on the St. Joseph River. 
Notre Dame tonk the first two spots in tho varsity eight as the Irish "A" boat completed the race in six minutes, 28.5 sec­onds. while the "B" vessel fin­islrnd 9.5 s11conds later at 6::-l8.00. 
ln thP novicP !'our race, l\otrc Dame one«' against claimed first and S<!cond plac<i in times of 
7:44.90 and 7:50.90, respective­
ly. The closest rar.,1 of the day was the varsity four as Notre Dame narrowly edged out Drake in a time of 7:28.45, only 
4.2 seconds ahead of the Bulldogs, who finished in 7:32.70. 
The novico eight race saw Notre Dame claim the top two positions again as the Irish "A" team finished in a time of 
6:38.50. This was the first-ever race for the Bulldogs as Drake added varsity rowing this sea­son. Notre Dame is in its second season of varsity competition. 
The Irish will be back in the water Saturday, as they row at the Indiana Championships in West Lafayette. Ind. 
Meet time is yet to be deter­mined. 

ATRIA SALON 
289-5080 
1357 N. IRONWOOD DR 
1 MILE FROM CAMPUS 
MODELS NEEDED FOR SHORT HAIR CUTS WOMEN/MEN FOR TRAINING CLASSES 
MUST MENTION THIS AD JUST $10.00 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Season opener brings team changes 
Associated Press 

Ken Griffey Jr. will be in his new Reds jersey. 
Mark McGwire and Sammy Sosa will have the first faccoff in the Home Hun Central. 
Andres Galarra­ga, Kerry Ligten­b e r g , Moises Alou and J a s o n Kendall will be back. And John Rocker. John Smoltz, Curt Schilling. Kerry Wood, Matt Williams, Darryl Strawberry and Richie Garcia will be among the missing. 
The first full day of baseball in the new century -did those games in Japan last week really count? -is filled with a year's worth ol' plot lines. 
"My son's skipping school on opening day. It's a tradition," Griffey said. "Cincinnati expects that a lot of kids are not going to be there." 
Griffey renewed baseball's buzz in· Cincinnati when he forced Seattle to trade him to his hometown team on Feb. 
10. With their annual parade, the Reds -who started play in 1869 -get the most worked up about opening day. 
"I can't wait to see Junior get announced," Reds first baseman Bal '.\1orris said Sunday, a day before thri Rrids open the North American por­tion of the baseball season against Milwaukee. 
"In '91, there was tremen­dous excitement because we'rl just won the World Series," Morris said. "I think this 

matches if not surpasses that." 
While the New York Mets and Chicago Cubs split a two­game series at Tokyo last week -the first season open­er outside North America ­the other 28 clubs were still at spring training. 
The rest of the NL schedule has the Cubs at St. Louis, San Diego at the Mets, Colorado at Atlanta, Los Angeles at Montreal, San Francisco at Florida and Houston at Pittsburgh. 
In the AL, the New York Yankees are at Anaheim as they start the quest to become the first team to win three straight World Series since the 1972-7 4 Oakland Athletics. They'll be missing Darryl Strawberry, again suspended for cocaine use, this time for a year. 
"l think there's prAssure because we're the Yankees," Chuck Knoblauch said. "It's a double-barreled thing, because we're the Yankees and we're the defend­
Rocker also will be missing, serving a two-week suspen­sion -an arbitrator cut it from four weeks -for dis­paraging gays, foreigners, minorities and Nflw Yorkers in a magazine article. 
Smoltz, his Atlanta team­mate, is out for the season with a torn elbow ligament, but Ligtenberg, the Braves' closer in 1998, has returned from ligament-replacement surgery. 
Kerrv Wood, the NL Rookie of the.Year for the Cubs in 1998, is still rehabbing from the same injury, and Schilling, Philadelphia's ace, is working his way back from shoulder surgery. 
Williams, a big reason Arizona won the NL West in only its second season. broke a bone in his foot last week and will miss at least the first month and a half. 
Galarraga. back from cancer treatment. has reclaimed his first-base spot in Atlanta, and Alou is back with Houston fol­lowing a knee injury that 
ing champi­"My son ·s skipping school caused him to ons, so miss all of
on opening day. ll 's a
everybody is 1999. Kendall gunning for tradition. Cincinnati returned to us." expects that a lot of the Pirates In other after a grue­
kids are not going
AL games, some ankle 
the Chicago to be there. " injury last White Sox .July 4. are at Texas, Managers
Ken Griffey Jr. 
Cleveland is making
Reds' outfielder
at Baltimore, Kansas City at Toronto, Tampa Bay at '.\1innesota and Detroit at Oakland. 
Two openers are scheduled for Tuesday, with Philadelphia at Arizona and Boston at Seattle. 
Fans will see new crews of mixed AL and NL umps. The new union, which replaced Richie Phillips' Major League Umpires Association, agreed to the merger as part of base­ball's elimination of separate league offices. 
Garcia, perhaps the most recognizable umpire, won't be on the field and Frank Pulli won't be, either. 
They are among 22 umps still trying to regain their jobs, the result of Phillips' failed mass resignation plan. 
debuts with 
new teams 
Monday are Mike Hargrove (Baltimore), Charlie Manuel (Cleveland), Davey Lopes (Milwaukee), Mike Sciosia (Anaheim), Buddy Bell (Colorado) and Phil Garner (Detroit). Baylor made his with the Cubs in Tokyo last week. 
Baseball's focus, at least for the start, wi11 be on the .:\IL Central, dubbed the Home Hun Central. Can Griffey, McGwire and Sosa combine to top 180 homers? 
"11\e focus on McGwire and Sosa comes from the media as much as the fans," Cardinals manager Tony La Russa said. "I don't think there's anything wrong with that part nf the game getting a lot of attention, as long as the teams arc. too." 

... 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 3, 2000 
.. NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Final Four appearance envigorates North· Carolina program 
to us," Guthridge said. "We Jive with it, though, as his team almost ran out of'time." returns almost intact. 
North Carolina fans almost ran "I have followed sports for out of patience with the likeable years and J knew following a leg• Guthridge, saying his team end is a very hard job," lacked drive and heart against Guthridge said. "Hut I feel good lesser teams, about the job I'm doing. I also 
The worst he heard all year? know that Dean Smith got criti­
"Dummy. Can't coach," cized through the years. People Guthridge said. "It bugs me a lit­wanted him to retire, saying the tle bit, but I can't dwell on it. game had passed him by. If they You have to consider the can do that to Dean Smith they source." can certainly do it to Bill 
Guthridge doesn't expect the Guthridge." criticism to end, even after tak­So, Guthridge will trudge on, ing the Tar Heels to two Final saying Sunday he would coach Fours in three years since at least another four, five or six replacing Dean Smith. lie can years. 
RE.AD'\:,. FOR A C~GE'? 
LOOK.u'IG FOR UFE EXPERIENCE? 
t"J"HE CASA 011 l!SP!RANZA 1•YEAR lNTERNSHIP: 
C:AS;:\ DE ES~(The House of Hope) ca.res for abused, negiecred uid HIV... children. 
YOU CAN HELP. 
Phone; (713) :S:?9-063~ F:-u: (713) 5:?9•9179 ~-mail: vol!ibtI@casahope.or2, \Vcbsitc: www.cu:s:1hope.or2 

"The fans that I've seen are "There are ups and downs 
Assoc:iated Press 
taking the loss differently than a through the season and through lot of times when the expecta­games," he added. "I have never
INDIANAPOLIS 

tions have been a little higher," been one who beliiwes in peak­
A trip to the Final Four can 

Guthridge said Sunday. ing, but we became a very goodwipe away a mediocre season. 
It didn't seem to matter that basketball team at the end of theEven for a program like North the Tar Heels shot a season-low year."
Carolina's. 

35.1 percent against the trap­That didn't seem possible in
Just 12 

ping, pressing Gators, or turned mid-January when the Tar Heelshours after the ball over 17 times, or scored ( 22-14) were in the midst of a
the Tar 
nine points over the final 11 season-high, four-game losingHeels lost to minutes en route to the team's streak.
Florida 71­14th loss -the program's most Or in early March as the team
59 in the 
in nearly 50 years. lost four of six heading into the
NCAA tour­
What counted was the effort postseason.
nament 
Guthridge got in the NCAA tour­But the 62-year-old Guthridge 
national 
nament from a team that loses told his team rnpeatedly during 
semifinals. Guthridge 
only senior point guard Ed Cota the rough times they would be
Bill Guth­
and reserve Terrence Newby. happy in April. He was right.
ridge stressed the team's late­"The players held this all "I really felt they were workingseason confidence, recruiting together," Guthridge said .."They hard and they were improvingand his enthusiasm for coaching. 
just kept coming ,back for more. and good things would happen 
--~ii

SATURDAY & SUNDAY APRIL 8 & APRIL 9 
JOYCE CENTER 
Men's & Women's Divisions T-Shirts to all Participants Bring Your Own Racquet Balls Will be Provided Refreshments Will be Served 
Register in Advance at ..z?---3/"~ Deadline: Wednesday, April 5 $8.00 Fee 

Please, come back me.


• -­

Visi-t Jesus 1n ­Eucharis-tic Adora-tion_ 
Monday 11 :30 p.rn. to Tuesday '10:0-0pm in Fisher Hall 
Friday -12:-00pm-5:00pm, Lady Chapel-, Ba-silica 
Euchar.i.stic Adorat±on .i.s sponsored by Campus M±n.i.s·try • ~-:..c ..·::.:~:..iS:x~h.,:;i,.US _ .i.:,'§..::r.d. eci~ for more information or to sign upf~~r-·a· pe:r:man.ent hali-hour or. hour. sl.ot. 
Monday, April 3, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
7 
J
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP 
Michigan State, Florida clash in championship game 

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Michigan State and Florida both started the season in the Top 10 and never dropped far below. Now they're the onlv teams left. 
Similarities over. 
While the Spartans are most effective in a half-court game, where they can crash the boards and be physical, the Gators prefer to play at warp speed, using a 10-man rotation and full-court pressure. 
Michigan State (31-7) was the only No. 1 seed to reach the Final Four and has lived up to the role in its bid for the national championship. The Spartans won evt>ry game in the NCM tourna­ment by at least 11 points, including Saturday night's 53-41 victory over Wisconsin. 
Florida, seedetl fifth, got a first­round scare from Butler before wear­ing down higher-seeded teams ­Illinois, top-ranked Duke and Oklahoma State -with its hectic pace. The Gators (29-7) used the same style to end North Carolina's surprising run with a 71-59 win Saturday night. 
"We like to run, too," Michigan State coach Tom Izzo said. "Maybe some of that is our style also .... I think we have an understanding for that. I think these guys want to run, too." 
The Spartans can get up and down the court, having scored more than 80 points nine times this season. In the tournament, however, they have aver­aged 68.2 with the five starters aver­aging between 27 and 35 minutes a game and only two reserves averaging more than 10. 
Florida has averaged 79.4 points in the five tournament games, just off its 
84.1 mark for the season. The 10 Gators who create all that havoc on the floor average between 13 and 31 min­utes a game. 
Michigan State starts three seniors, while Florida has one on the team and plays seven sophomores and freshmen in the rotation. 
"Our youthfulness has won us a lot of basketball games this year," said Kenyan Weaks, Florida's lone member of the Class of 2000. "I don't know if that's going to be a big problem in this game." 
The Spartans were going to use an age-old method to prepare for Florida's full-court press Monday night. 
"We always go against six or seven guys in practice and I'm sure we'll have a bunch of players out there today," Michigan State forward Andre Hutson said Sunday. 
ounts • Gift Certificates • Guaranteed Satisfaction! 
For Your Best Tan Ever! What's Your Plan? Get a Fun Tan! 
NEW UNIVERSITY LOCATION! 
We've kicked open the doors at the new FUN TAN University facility on the corner of 23 and Ironwood! Near Kinkos. FUN TAN brings you the newest innovations in designer tanning with beds and booths that deliver 40% more tanning rays than any other bed on the market~ 
Why settle for less? 
272-7653 NEW University Lcx:ation State Road·23 & Ironwood 256-9656 Comer of Grape and McKinley 291-2000 Southland Plaza Ireland & Ironwood 
Florida coach Billy Donovan believes people are getting the wrong impres­sion about his team. 
"People think it's just running and jacking up 3-point shots," Donovan said. "We. put a tremendous emphasis on guarding the 3-point line. Basically, every team in the country, when they go to practice, is going to practice their half-court offense. We trv to be as dis~ ruptive as possible and t:tke teams out of what they practice on a regular basis." 
One of the keys to breaking Florida's press will be senior point guard Mateen Cleaves. 
"You never have a chance to relax," he said. "The main thing for the game is you can't change your attitude." florida's subs have scored 175 points in the tournament, 132 more 
..,
than Michigan State's. 

"J do think we need to get more scor­ing out of our bench and I think we have the potential," Izzo said. "As far as wearing us down, I think we'll uti­lize our bench enough so it doesn't." 
Donovan won't change a thing. 
"We're going to play our guys like we normally have and I don't kno:,v if we'll be able to wear Michigan State down," he said. "We have to just try and play our style." 
Michigan State is trying to become the first Big Ten team to win the national championship since Michigan in 1989. The Spartans' only national championship came in 1979 when Magic Johnson led them to the title as a sophomore. 
The Spartans are in the Final Four for the second straight year. They lost to Duke in the semifinals last season. 
"That was cool but we went home empty-handed," Cleaves said. "It's great to get here but you'll always be remembered as a national champion." 
Florida is looking for its first national championship while keeping alive the Southeastern Conference's even-year streak. Arkansas won in 1994 and Kentucky won in 1996 and 1998. 
Donovan, one of six men to play and coach in a Final Four, will try to join even more select company. 
Only Bob Knight and Dean Smith have played in a Final four and coached a national champion. At 34, Donovan would be the third-youngest coach to win it all behind Indiana's Branch McCracken in 1940 and Wisconsin's Harold Foster in 1941. 
•·t haven't focused on the fact we're 40 minutes from a national champi­onship," Donovan said. "Probably more that we're playing Michigan State and what we have to do to beat them." 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 3, 2000 
MEN'S LACROSSE 

Notre Danie snaps skid with 13-4 win against Ohio State 
By STEVE KEPPEL 
Spons Writer 
After losing two straight games, thn Notre Dame men's lacrosse team beat Ohio State l 3-4 in a convincing fashion on Saturday to 
Notre Dame 13

improve to 
4-3 on the Ohio State 4 
season and 
3-0 in conference play. 
This was an important win for the No. 15 ranked Irish, who now sit atop the Great 'v\'estern Lacrosse League (GWLL) with only one confer­ence game left. 
The victory also gives the Irish some confidence that players hope will carry on into
.. the last five games of the sea­son. "This win is really important to us because we have another leagtw game coming up next weekend against Butler and we really needed some confid,mce going into this one. If we win this one we will get a bid to the NCAA tournament at the end of the year," said junior Torn Glatzel. Glatzel, who hails from Ellicott City, Md., led the team with five goals and two assists, tying his career high in both goals and points in a game. The Irish came out strong and after mastering the slower tempo of the Buckeyes, they scored two quick goals at the end of the first quarter and ran off four unanswered in the second. "Our coach had them really scouted out well, he knew 
exactly what he wanted to do an<l he let us know how impor­tant i.t was to stir:k to our game plan," Glatzel said. "WA just kept the ball out of their hands. They really like to slow the ball down a lot and our offense did a great joh holding the ball. The longer we had the ball the more tired they were getting and v;·e got a fow easy goals there anu that really carried us." 
Glatzel and juniors Steve Bishko and Jon Harvey each scored during this stretch to lead the Irish. 
The Buckeyes finally got on the board with 40 seconds left in the half on a goal from Pat MeyArs. But, after a third goal from Glatzel with eight seconds remaining, the Irish led by a score of 7-1. 
The third quarter was high­lighted by good defense and tight goalie play by both teams. 
Bishko scored a quick goal, but then it looked likA the Irish defense was going to give up another big run as the Buckey«'s rallied, bringing the score to 8-4. 
It appeared as though Ohio State was going to come back, but l\otre Dame survived the barrage and went on to score five straight goals in the last part of the game. · 
This last Irish run was start­ed with a big goal by Bishko, who ended the day with a hat trick and upped his season total to nine. 
"In our past two games we have let teams score four or five goals in a row and usually 
ProE"ess01r .Der:iis D<>rioghu.c is a 
.Discin.gu.ishcd "Visic<>r ac t:hc N"ation.a.l 
I--IL.1.ma.1.-i.ities Cen.t::~r, a.r.a.d the I--leriry James 
Prof"cssor oF English an.cl .American. 
Letters a.t:: ~cw York -Un.i-versity­

e-1:1is I :>e>-1:1e>gh1.1e 
ic<_A_da.m,s C:u.rse: C:hrist:ia..n._it:y a..n._d "l..1.re in_ the ~wen_t:iet:h C:e.n._t:"l..1.ry,, 
All lcct:'-l.res -will take place at: 4: 15 p.m.,. A...._dit:<>ri'--1.m -Eck 'Visit<>rs" Center ("N"ot:re .Dame _Av-e.n.'--1.e,. sou_th oF the lv1:orris ln.n.) 
T-..w.esd.a.y, _A_pri.l 4 
Christ: ar1d .Apc:>llc:> 
Th-u..rsda.y,. April 6 
c:>rhervvise t:1-1:an. Being 
T-..w.esd.a.y, April 1 1 
A..f"t:er Virt:1..1.e 
Th-u.rsd.a.y, _A_p.ril 13 
Church :an.d '-X?"c:>rld 
T-u.escl:a.y, April 1 8 
The I:>eat:h c,£' Sat:an. 

JEFF HSUffhe Observer 
Junior Tom Glatzel reaches to pick up the ball in Notre Dames' win against Penn State. Glatzel led the Irish with five goals and two assists against Ohio State. 
we get down and then let them they earned and we just shut matchup. If the Irish can win get a couple that they them down after that." they will be headed to the shouldn't," Glatzel said. "This Next week Notre Dame heads NCAA tournament for the 
· time we didn't let them get any to Indianapolis to take on eighth time in the past nine easy ones. The ones they got Butler in another conference years. 

Ccurpon.s-ored by t:he c:__~ffice of" t:he Provog~ :and t"he F1ra.!!lmU!q fn!lllr:h-:ur:@ 1.n.iw::ip,.l M..1-.n.di.n.g £or c.he Frs:a.19mu.s Jraa-.:i~uTe c::omca F~m t:hoe genell!"o•it."y oran anc:,ny•n.;,,u,. don.oir-. 
i 
I 
The Pef'W" C:harhablc ~rus1;.s,. and -cahe Unlversi«:y of' Nocre Dame
I 
I 
I 
I .. • •., 
-. . " ' -­
.. ._.. ,...,,,._ ... ..-~....--,..:. •· --,,_ -·-_;,;,. ...., . · ... -...•-. 

Monday, April 3, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP 
Huskies end stellar season with title 
A~.,;odaced Press  Relying on its incredible rlnpth, Connecticut kept  when the Huskies beat TennessPe 70-64 in  
sending fresh ,,vaves of sub­ Minneapolis to finish 35-0.  
PHILAl>ELPHIA  stitutes into the game, and  It's the third straight year  
Connecticut had too much  that eventually wore out  and the eighth time overall  
talent, too rn uch de p1, h Connecticut 71  Tennessee. Tennessee had been aver­ that the team finishing No. 1 in the rankings has won the  
and too many Tennessee 52 quick hands.  aging 80 points a game. It took the Lady Vols, who had  championship. The top­ranked team has never lost  
And now the Huskies have  four of their first five shots  in the title game.  
something else as well: a sec­ blo.:ked, almost 13 minutes  Tennessee played without  
ond national championship.  to even get 10 points in this  starting guard Kris.ten  
With an impressive display  one.  Clement, an emotional leader  
of hall-hawking defonse and  National player of the year  and one of the tP.am's most  
efficient, balanced offense - Tamika Catchings drew the  experienced players. Clement  
the foundation of UConn's  brunt of Connecticut's  sprained her right ankle dur­ 
play all season ­the Huskies  defense as first Swin Cash,  ing a drill at practice Sunday  
overwhelmed Tennessee 71­ then Jones and Ralph took  morning and despite under­ 
52 Sunday night to win the  turns guarding her.  gc1ing a full day of treatment,  
women's :'-iC/\A titlP.  Catchings got only one shot  she wasn't able to go.  
The top-ranked Huskies  in the first 11 minutes ­and  Her absence deprived one  
(36-1) beat No. 2 Tennessee  it was blor.ked.  of the playf'rs that r.oach Pat  
for the second time in three  She finished with 16 points  Summitt had planned to  
meetings this season and did  to lead the Lady Vols.  rotate on Connecticut point  
it in a way that left the Lady  In the first title game  guard Sue Bird in an effort to  
Vols i3J-4) da,;ed aml looking  matching the top two ranked  slow Connecticut's dynamic  
helpless.  teams since 1989,  offense.  
Tennessee was in the Final  Connecticut asserted itself  Kyra Elzy, a strong defend­ 
1  Four for the 12th time and  early by pushing the ball up  er, started in Clement's place  
was seeking its seventh  the floor quickly and frus­ and scored flight points.  
national championship.  trating Tennessee with its  Bird, who had scored l 9  
But thP Lady Vols could  traps and donhle teams on  points in a semifinal victory  
offer little more than token  the defensh'e end.  over Penn State, kept playing  
opposition to the UConn  The Huskies built a 15­ after jamming her right  
machine, which completed  point lead a little more than  index finger in the first half  
an impressive run through  12 minutes into the game,  and did not have one of her  
the NCAA tournament.  and Tennessee never found a  better games, finishing with  
No one in the tournament  way to get back in it.  four points.  
came closer than 15 points to  The championship came  With Connecticut contest­ 
the Huskies, whose only loss  five years to the day after  ing almost every shot,  
was a 72-71 setback to  Connecticut won its first title.  Tennessee started 1-for-13  
Tennessee on reb. 2.  And for Geno Auriemma,  from the field, yet trailed  
Shea Ralph led the Huskies  Connecticut's brash, smooth­ only 9-4.  
with 15 points on 7-of-8  talking coach, the champi­ But when Jones hit a turn­ 
shooting, and also had seven  onship was all the more  around shot in the lane with  
assists, six steals and one  thrilling because it came in  14:28 left, UConn took off. A  
block.  his backyard.  12-2 run that included three  
Svetlana Abrosimova had  Auriemma moved to this  baskets by Jones opened it  
14 points, and Asjha Jones  country with his family from  up. When she hit another  
had 12.  Italy when he was 7 years old  turnaround at the 7 :49 mark,  
The Huskies also got a big  and grew up in the  Connecticut led 21-6 and  
lift from Kelly Schumacher  Philadelphia suburb of  Tennessee had onlv two field  
who had six points and had a  Norristown.  goals ­and seven ·turnovers.  
Final Four-record nine  He also guided Connecticut  That was not in Summitt's  
blocks.  to its other title in 1995,  game plan.  

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
PRESENTS 

PROVOST'S DISTINGUISHED VISITING LECTURER 
BARBARA RESKIN 
PROFESSOR OF SOCIOLOGY HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
"RACE AND SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT: WHAT'S GOVERNMENT GOT TO DO WITH IT?'' 
MONDAY, APRIL 3, 2000 
3:30 PM 

HESBURGH CENTER AUDITORIUM 
Barbara Reskin is a Professor of Sociology at Harvard University. She has published several dozen articles and chapters and six books on sex and race inequality in labor markets. Recent books include The Realities of Affirmative Action in Employment (1998J, women and Men at work (with Irene Padavic, 1994) , and Job Queues. Gender Queues: Explaining WOmen. s Inroads into Male Occupations (with Patricia Roos, 1990). Professor Reskin has been Vice President of the American Sociological Association, 
Study  Director  of  the  Cornmittee  on  women, s  Employment  at  the  National  
Academy  of  Sciences,  and  has  served  as  an  expert  witness  in  
discrimination cases.  

SPONSORED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF SOCIOLOGY 
page 19 
New track and field records 
(as of Saturday, April 1J 
Marshaun West, Chris Cochran, Travis Davey, Tom Gilbert 
4xl00 completed in 40.22 (School record1 track record) Liz Crow, Tameisha King, Carrie Lenz, Kymia Love 4xl00 completed in 46.32 (School record, track record) 
Liz Grow 400m completed in 54.16 (Track record) Leanne Brady 800m completed in 2:13:29 <Track record) Jamie Volkmer Triple jump 39'10.75", Pole vault 11'5" 
(School and track records) Jennifer Engelhardt High jump 5'9" (Track record) 
SCOTT HARDY /The Observer 
dard by 11 inches. The women's javelin school
Track 

record was surpassed as well as Andre Duplechain's throw
continued from page 24 

of 116-7. bested Katie an impressive new record, ihe Knecht's 1997 mark of 115­women went for quantity, set­10.Also setting Monogram ting seven school or track Track records were .Jennifer standards. Engelhardt, Liz Grow and 
Among those was the Leanne Brady. women's 4xl00 meter relay Engelhardt's high jump of 5­team of Tameisha King, 9 broke the record of 5-8 she 
Carrie Lenz, Kymia Love and previously shared with 1998 Liz Grow who set a new teammate Kelle Saxen and school and track record with Meghan Gilhooly of Miami. a time of Grow's time 46.32. of54.16in 
"That was 'The women ·s team has the 400 kind of meters was a
really improved over the
expected," new track 
past Jew years; we have
Millar said. record by "The women's a good nucleus of almost two team has real­seconds,
runners now. That 
ly improved w h i l e
record willfall continue
over the past Brady's few years; we to fall as they improve. " 2:13.29 in have a good the 800 nucleus of meters was
John Millar

runners now. also a track That record best.
Irish assistant coach 
will continue In all, the to fall as they Irish turned improve." in 10 first place finishes for 
Perhaps the top individual the men and 14 for the performance of the men or women. The final scores for women was that of Jamie the men were Notre Dame Volkmer, who set school and 227.5, Western Michigan track marks in both the triple 216.5, Miami 153 and Butler jump and pole vault. 43. 
Her triple jump of 39-10 3/4 For the women, the final broke the existing track was Notre Dame 237 .5, Miami record by more than a foot, 141.5, Western Michigan 131 and the school record by more and Butler 86. than two feet. Volkmer's pole The Irish travel to Oxford, vault height of 11-5 sets a Ohio this weekend for the new school and track stan-Miami Invitational. 
ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS! 
Interested in the 
Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships? 
Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will discuss the scholarships and inform you of deadline dates and the Fall application process on 
Monday, April 3, 2000 
6:00 p.m. 101 Law School 
If you are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of informa­tion may be obtained in 102-B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 3, 2000 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 

Durkin shines for Irish despite loss to No. 13 Co0101odores 

By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Sporrs W ricer 

Despite a school record-tying performance by Irish goal­tender Tara Durkin, the Notre Dame women's lacrosse team suffered 
defeat at the Vanderbilt 10 hands of No. Notre Dame 6 13 ranked Vanderbilt and saw its record fall to 3-4 on the season. Durkin made 20 saves in the 10-6 loss to the Commodores, matching current junior Carrie Marshall's record set against Columbia in 1998. Durkin improved her save percentage from .620 (10th in the NCAA) to .629 with her performance Sunday. "It was nice to have an indi­vidual record," Durkin said. 

~SlJi  5:00 p.ro. Gym 2  
~  
d' g background required.  

For Men; NO cbeer\ea 14/6 4/7 4/10, 4/11 Clinics~ 4/4,_ 4/5, is' Clo;ed to Public Tryouts: April 13 & .114 open to All 6 p.m. T'""'outApn
Leprecbaun ·• 

•1 
"But it really doesn't mean much if the team doesn't win." 
Vanderbilt goalie Shana Crabtree finished the game with 13 saves, compared to her total of five in 1999, when she shared goaltending duties for Vanderbilt with junior Emily Lough. 
Despite the loss, the Irish were optimistic when compar­ing the performance against last season's 18-9 Vanderbilt game. 
"I think we've definitely improved from last year," junior Lael O'Shaughnessy said. "We're a totally different team than last year. Our defense was better and so was our goaltending." 
The junior attacker scored in her 17th consecutive game, fin­ishing against Vanderbilt with one goal and one assist. 
April 3, 2000 Joyce center 

The Irish hold tho Commo­dores scoreless for nearly 14 minutes in the first half and almost 15 in the second. 
Despite this strong defonsivo showing, they were unable to stop potent Vanderbilt tri-cap­tain and senior Sue Napolitano, who finished the game with 7 goals. 
"It was our best game at home,''.. Durkin said. "We're not discouraged at all." 
The home match. against the Commodores marked the fourth consecutive loss for this Irish squad that started the season 3-0 before losing the last four. Rut they remain hopeful that the slide will end. 
"Basically there's going to have to be a turning point," Durkin said. "Something will happen over the next three games." 
Freshman Danielle Shearer led the Irish, finishing with three goals and one assist. Her second goal of the first half cut Vanderbilt's lead to 7-4. Notre Dame defcnseman Tina Fedarcyk and attafker Angela Dixon also scornd in the first half. 
"(Shearer] played well," Durkin said. "I think that the freshmen were kind of forced to come in and be leaders on a team with no seniors. They had to come in [ready to play] faster than most programs." 
The Irish and the Commodores were deadlocked for the first 15 minutes of the second half. The Irish were the [irst to break in and score, with another goal by Shearer off an assist by O'Shaughnessy. Napolitano won the draw fol­lowing that score and set off a Commodore scoring spree that put Vanderbilt up 10-5. 
O'Shaughnessy scored the final goal of the game with six minutes left to bring the Irish 
back up to 10-6. assists. fifth-year coach Kim 
"We're a newly developed Simons used both her goalies team," Durkin said. "We're against Rutgers. Junior Bowen hanging in there. We're not Holden has a .626 save per­getting humiliated against centage and a 7.:{3 goals ranked teams." against average. 
Notre Dame travels to Sophomore Chandler Vecchio Georgetown on Wednesday. has played in five of the eight This will be the first official Hoya contests and has allowed meeting between the two no goals in those games. teams. The Irish will be looking to 
Georgetown, currently knock off the highly-ranked ranked No. 6, has a 6-2 record lloyas. and beat Rutgers 16-6 on "We have to be intense for Saturday. The Boyas are led by every game now," O'Shaugh­All-American junior Shaheen nessy said. "Their ranking Stanwick, who finished last shouldn't matter. We have no season with 51 goals and 26 easy games left." 
Get Involved! 
The Class of 2002 Officers 
are seeking energetic and 
dedicated classmates to form 
their class council! 
Applications and details will 
be available from April 3-7 
outside of the class office on 
the 2nd floor of Lafortune. 
PPE 
THE CONCENTRATION IN PHILOSOPHY, POLITICS, AND ECONOMICS 
The PPE Concentration invites applications from undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting areas of political philosophy, political theory, and economic analysis. Every year about twenty highly motivated and talented students are admitted to PPE. Check it out to see ifit is for you. Many of our students go on to careers and top graduate programs in law, public policy, philosophy, political science, and economics. 
If you are looking for 
(1) 
an integrated approach to politics and justice, without all the requirements of a second major, and 

(2) 
an intellectual community of faculty and students who share your interests, 


then PPE wants you! 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, contact either Professor David O'Connor, Philosophy Department, O'Connor.2@nd.edu, 631-6226, or Professor John Roos, Government Department, Roos.l@nd.edu. 
FOR AN E-MAIL APPLICATION, simply send a request to Professor David O'Connor at O'Connor.2@nd.edu. The application deadline is noon on Friday, April 7. Late applications will be accepted only if openings are still available. 
•• .','.~•-• =~'"~: ~:.,~•~2~:f ~!."~ . r.,: '-_, ~~. • I ~ &
l t 
t :,":'".-r-3.~:..-·:.-~~,,.r...1---.,,---~..:.,.,#;w.)t<;U'";,.~~s:r-~~,,.t""':", :.a~v~~,-.:·.;...z-~•~&v:..·-£...-...7.i=~~ j,;,,,"a~~-w·;;-:.".'15~z-~-=·~•i•~~;-,.~;;,--:-r-7s-~-::_.::~~:·1R.-i.;-r:,;~; ~-,;;...--~~~~"'tt~;it:s:-i:ifisi-,.W~Z~;..~s::'i-::..w.n..:1,7~-i.-T~.;. j;.n: ~ frJ 
Monday, April 3, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish rout Badgers with 9-0 win 
By KEVIN BERCHOU 
Sports W ricer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team was hoping for great weather on Sunday for its home match against the Wisconsin Badgers, since the Irish wanted badly to play the match outdoors. 
The weather wasn't sunny, but the play of the Irish cer­tainly was. ln thrashing the Badgers 9-0. the Irish left no doubt that bright skies are ahead. Brimming with confi­dence following a trouncing of lhc Michigan Wolverines the Irish had little in trouble in blasting tlrn Badgers. 
"We were all pretty confi­dent after beating Michigan," sophomore Becky Varnum said. "We had two great days or practice aud we all just 
"You have to win the ugly matches. Our coaches do a good job ofkeeping us focused so we don't wear down in the late sets." 
Becky Varnum Irish singles player 

wanted to get out there and play well." 
The Irish didn't just play well, they dominated, losing just one spt in singlPs play and sweeping the doubles matchP.s. The team improved its record to 15-5 and scored its fourth consecutive win over Wisconsin. 
Sixteenth-ranked Michelle Dasso bnrnzed through her match with the Badgers' 
April Gabler, making her foe look foolish with a 6-0, 6­1 victory. 
"Michelle played really well. She was the first one off the court," Varnum said. 
Varnum also played strong, winning her match in straight sets. Kelly Zalinski, Lindsey GrePn and Katie Cunha all scored straight sets victories as the Irish pounded the Badgers. 
Nina Vaughan was tested, but held on to take her match in three sets to keep the shutout intact. 
'.'You have to win the ugly matches," Varnum said. "Our coaches do a good job of keeping us focused so we don't wear down in the late s~ts." 
While it rained outside, it poured indoors on the Badgers. The Irish swept the 

doubles losing a total of just
r.===~~=========~====:""::"~=~===~ four points 
as they left their 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
11t'J,-,. ~Ott~ 7/t\trm~ ttrrJ,Qftr{~ &
\ll.lJJ~ ~ ~· ~" C.. \CJ.,,tJ U. ~ 
/_,..hambor ~rrh-,.;-Jtra
\l..-lJ ~ ~ ~~::;:, Alexander Blachly, Director 

Byrd Bach Lassus Schiltz Messiaen 
8:00 p.m. 

Wednesday, April 5, 2000 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Free & open to the public. www.nd.edu/-music for more info 
opponents looking all wet. 
While the Irish have playedtremendously of late, their victories have come against lesser opponents.
The season's schedule is both top and bottom heavy, with the majority of the 
tougher opponents book end­ing some sorter competition.
"We haven't played a lot of top teams lately," Varnum said. "But it gets tougher from here on in." 
Notre Dame will take on Purdue and William and Mary in the coming weeks. 
The Wisconsin match may 1 have been the calm before the storm. 
Jefferson 
continued from page 24 
combined with being the sec­ond cousin of former Irish cornerhack and current Philadelphia Eagles player Allen Rossum, gave Irish fans hope. 
But like most high school stars, Jefferson was a little naive about the college game. 
"I thought I was going to play as a freshman," Jefferson said. "But it was a whole different level. The speed is faster; the people are stronger. In high school most of the people are below you athletically." 
Jefforson played in two games his first year, logging less than four minutes of playing timP and recording no tackles. 
He came back the next year with more realistic aspira­tions, hoping to gain some more playing time. 
But with the departure of Williams, that plan was altered. 
"I thought I was going to be playing, probably end up in the dime or nickel package," .Jefferson said. "But I really wasn't expecting to come in and start. It surprised me." 
With the emphasis this spring set on improving a defense that yielded 27 .6 points and 383.7 points per game last season, Jefferson can already see some changes in the secondarv. 
"Our scheme and plan is to get a lot more aggressive," Jefferson said. "Next year we're going to play more man, be more aggressive and get in the face of receivers. 
It's making everyone better coverage-wise." 
Come next year, Jefferson will have a season under his belt at arguably the toughest position in football, playing in front of the largest fan base in college football. The com­petition for playing time is stiff, the schedule is tough and there are no guarantees. 
But as always, Jefferson remains optimistic. 
"After this past year, I've gained a lot of experience," Jefferson said. "My biggest motivation (this year) is to get better, get faster and get more aware. I'm looking for­ward to helping the team try to get a national champi­onship." 
NOTES: 

. 
The Irish worked out in shorts this weekend. They will wear pads for the first time when they return to practice on Tuesday. 

. 
On the injury front, kick­er Nick Setta (sprained right ankle) and tight ends Dan O'Leary (back pain) and Gerald Morgan (hamstring) all missed practices this weekend. 

. 
With O'Leary and Morgan suffering injuries, Jabari Holloway is the only healthy scholarship tight end. Davie plans on having John Owens, who played tight end a year ago switching to defensive end this spring, play both ways until O'Leary and Morgan return. 

. 
Matt McNew, a varsity soccer player from Arlington, Texas is competing for the starting placekicking job with Setta and David Miller. Davie said the starting position is wide open. 


8:00 a.rn. 9:00a.m. 
10:15 a.m. 
10:30 a.rn. 
12:30 p.m. 
1:45 p.m. 
3:00 p.m. 
3:30 p.m. 
•··•--~otre _Da,ne Center ----;for Ethics andReligious 
---Values in Business 
PRESENTS 
A MA.JOR CONFERENCE, APRIL·:3-4, 2000 
BUSINESS, RELIGION AND SPIRITUALITY 
During April 3-4, 2000, the Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business will host a conference in the Center f'or Continuing Education at the University oCNotre Dante. Tbe conference vvill be keynoted by Martin Marty, University ofChicago, and will include a number oCdistinguished speakers. 
All sessions to be held at the Center £or Continuing Education, except where noted. 
IVIONDAY, APRIL3 

Continental BreakCast 
Session I: A Sptrl.tual Audl.t ofCorpora.le Anrerlca 
Ian I. Mitroff 
Laura Nash 

Response Panel: Jerome .J. Crowley John T. Ryan, III 
Break 

S~sion 2~· Some Traditional Re:sourcesfor Sp/ri,uallty 
Larry Cunninghrun Oerald F. Cavanagh. S.S. 
'John Caron Amir Al-Islam Ed-win Epstein 

Lunch: Morris Inn 
Session 3: K,o,no.te Address 
Martin E. Marty 
R.esponse Panel; 

Welcome by Father Malloy, C.S.C.• President, University of'Notte Dame 
Break 

AND REGISTRATION FOK TH.t:. \.:UNI'ERENCE, PLEASE CONTACT: 
Deborah Coch Administrative Assistant 

3:45 p.m. 
-5:30 p.m. 6,oo p.rn. 7;30 p.rn. 
8:00 a.m. 9:00 a.111. 
10,15 a.m, 
10:30 a.m. 
12:30 p.,n. 
Session 4: A Case S.tudy: The Heal.th Care Indus.try 
Patricia Vandenberg. C.S.C. 
Panel Response: Peter J. Giantmalvo Mary Kathryn Grant John A. Gallagher Roger Klauer. M.D. 
Reception: Faculty Lounge, College oC Business 
Dinner: Attiurn, College of'Business Music: Notre Dame Glee Club 
TUESDAY, APRIL 4 

Continental Breakfast 
Session S.• Ano.ther .Perspec.tlve 
Marilou Eldred Panel Rosponse: Break 
Session 6: Management Profte!<snrs Speak 
Claudia McOeary/Don McNeill. C.S.C. Robert G. Kennedy .Tames .J. McGee 
F. Byron Nahser Stephen J. Porth Bowen McCoy 
I,.unch; Morris Inn 
Conf'erence ends a~ conclusion of' lunch 
Notre OlU'lle Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business Telephone: (219) 631-6072 
•For information on the speakers you may visit the Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business Web Site at www.nd.edu/--ethics/ 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 3, 2000 
SOFTBALL 
Belles give up 2 runs in split doubleheader with Lady Jackets 
I 
' . 

By KAREN SCHAFF 
Sports Writer 

The Bcl!ns' softball tnam found its del'nnsive niclrn Saturday, giving up just two runs in a split doubleheader with thn Lady Jackt•ts of' Game 1 Defiance 
Saint Mary's 4
(.,o11ege. Saint Marv's Defiance 0 won tlrn n,:st 
Game 2 
game 4-0, but lost tlrn sec-Defiance 2 ond 2-1. Saint Mary's 1 
The Belli1s played well in tlrnir first match, particularly 
on dcfonse. Pitcher Kristin Martin had four strikeouts and held the opposition scoreless. 
Saint Mary·s also showed quick spned in tlrn tiPld as out­fielder Cindy Traub made a div­ing catch to end the f'ourth inning. 
This wenkend, the Belles got some big hits as well. Sophomore first baseman Rachel Deer singled to right field, driving in two runs in the bottom of the second. Freshman outfielder Katie Murphy drove in one run with her single in the bottom of thfl fourth.
NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer 
"We are a team that needs
The Belles scored five runs and gave up only two in their split double header with the Lady 
big hits," Dem· said. "When we
Jackets this weekend. The squad takes the field again today when it hosts Goshen. 
g<~t the big hits, we get fired." 
The Belles did not play as well in the second gamo, 1ispe­dally on offense. 
Tho biggost hit -a snvcnth­in n ing RBI rlouble -carn1~ from senior infielder Trish Klockner. 
"All we needed was the right hit at thn right time," head coach Joe Speybroeck said. "We just didn't get it this game." 
The Ifolles· remain11d strong in thn fiPld in thP second game, however, making Olli' great catch after another. 
They also had two double plays, one in the third inning and one in tlrn sixth. 
"Defensively, we a1:e solid," Deer said. "We can beat any­one we play." 
Pitcher Anne Sengm had a good day, with six strikeouts, including two in the second inning. Senger gave up only one earned run to Defiance. 
The coach said he wants the girls to be more aggressive on base. 
"I keep telling the girls, if you think you can make it, go for it," Speybrueck said. "Just be aggressive. They looked all around, and in the first ganrn, we looked really good. We hit, ran. and had very little errors." 
Saint Mary's hosts Goshen College at 3 p.m. today. 
Christmas in April Benefit Run 

. , 
.~ ~ 
Dead\ine for Mvan,e registration is 5:oopm on 4n 1>tude.nt and 'btaff Divi~iom, .A.\\ 'Protud~ to \;enefit ~m~1­
Sponsored By ndf s
R-=-~ o c:i o 
-/ -HQTU OAMi FOOD Ul\/iCU 
NEED AJOB FOR NEXT YEAR? 
Student Activities is now hiring for the 2000-2001 academic year. Positions available: 
· Ballroom Monitors Building Set Up Crew DeBartolo Event Manager Information Desk LaFortune Building Managers Office Assistants ND Cake Service ND Express Sound Technicians Stepan Center Managers 24 Hour lounge Monitors 
Applications available at 315 LaFortune or on-line at .nd.edu/ ~sao/forms. 
Deadline extended to April 7. 
~ tr~~ Plus ?-Mi\i Wall: ~ ~aturdai, /\pri\ S, 11:00 AM ~te.pan C..e.nter T-~hirts to a\\ 149isirants ~9ister in Mvant.e. at ~c.~portf> $!,.oo In Mvanc.e. or $1.oo Da~ of F-ac.e. 

Boca Raton 
Blue Ridge Calgary Cincinnati Detroit Dubuque Ft. Wayne Indianapolis jackson, MI Kalamazoo Marion, IN the Haven, home for abused neglected kids 
YWCA programs Street Teams, working with teen prostitutes Boys and Girls club (local student) Mercy Hospital, Infant Mortality Program <;:amp for children with physical disabilities Matthew 25-low/no income clinic (car) Children's summer programs, family shelter Home for pregnant teens migrant worker ministry-(Spanish needed) Abuse programs 
Michigan City,IN camp for developmentally disabled adults Goshen, IN Boys & Girls Club Rockford, IL medical, (car going to be Jr of Sr., female) Worcester, MA Dismas House 
and more tRtl
Ct:NT!lt r01 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
SueCunnin am 1-7867 or Tracy 1-9402 
Monday, April 3, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
:'.JO?,tl~N, -r \.lh\JEt,i, f,Ef.t< PRo6#,l>LY 
fEf1,.1Wt:,, ,oC.001:> 1\\SSE BREA.•1\£ l,LLU<>1E!>. 
r~s, rEW Ot>.'<~. 1: ,.~INK k~O ~C>MHll",(:S No ~16 
1'1'\ (Ol'II'°!(;. !X>WN 'Nii\-\ 
:t GET 01,~t. 

Sot-\ETl-\l~C> 
DOV6LE tJ•5~10:::_:tJ'..c=:.:::::=i!') 

Fox TROT 
AAAA! I CAN'T 1'0SS1BLY 
I EAT EVEf.1Y SECOND OF 
MA'Y8E 1F I !UMP VP AND WEIGH THIS 1.ITTI.£! 
EVERY DAY! ICE CREAM! DOWN ON THE SCALE.•• 

TOM KEELEY 
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 
:r 'fJi\"K 50t'\£fSO\)"'( 5,o,.,f!, A 
CALL l\\\~ 
0~'1' t', 

~t>.\-.J AN '4,\'\6UL~~(d AS~LL PoEM 
TO HELP W.A.CE THROUGH OFfEl<,S. • • (AHEM): 


~i. 11'5 HARO TO SUR\/Ne 0~ LES5 

1HAN 1WEN.1Y·fl\lE, 8\JT You MIGHT NOT 6ET P>cTlcR, IF You'RE IN t-.RTSiA. LETTERS.BILL AMEND 
IF '(Q\)'RE ACHE(,,10u \ WILL 6ET MORE-~UT oK, I'M DONE. DID YOU 
mAT ooESNJT CHANGE

"!'OU CAN TA"E RE.MEMBER 
THAT '(OUR Joe IS A 
I.A'5TL'(-&~ RISl<'(-lR'fl?> 
TAKE. A CHAN Cc. 1r•5 
l'tOi ,&,.Bour MONE'(.. 

-
-..,.___,,c--LlNLl:SS '(OU~ MAJOR :===:= \$ FIN~CE!"'--=­
beam.1@nd.edu 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 South Pacific 59 Sneakers with 1 Plane islander swooshes reservation 33 It once billed 60 Popular on-line 5 Brief fight itself "The most auction DPerson whose 
trusted name in company name starts television" 61 "_of the with Mac-, 36 Inventor's D'Urbervilles" maybe impossible goal 62 Beau 
4 Burn balm 39 "Take your 63 Soap actress 5 Scout group hands off me!" Linda 6 _ Alto, Calif. 40 Rigid bracelet 7 Horne who 41 Supply-and-DOWN 
sang "Stormy demand subj. 1 Dollar days Weather" 42 Rich pastries event 8 Tending (to} 43 Fire sign 2 Abbr. on a 9 The Emerald 44 Word on contour map 
Isle express mail 3 Top-notch 1967 Robert 47 Republicans, for 4 Sign of Knight hit short unhappiness 
Not "dis," in 48 1995 Deepak 5 March 17 Brooklyn Chopra book honoree, briefly 
4 More complete 55 Belonging to us 6 Goes astray Group of bees 56 Steamed 7 Horn sound Country estates 57 San _, Italy 8 Novelist 
1 Louisville's river 58 Fit of fever Morrison 9 Danger near an aerosol spray NSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Incantations p p o s 11 "God Rest Puzzle by Robert Frank --L-+-l+--N+-E--+ Ye Merry, 
30 Takes it easy 45 Cheek coloring 50 Fifth Avenue I _--=-,f-::,-+.,... E N Gentlemen," e.g. 
8 32Amazing retailer 
12 Fruit on a 46 Mentors
33 Puerto 51 "Let it stand" 
O T toothpick 47 Farmyard
0 N A 13 Printer need 34 Person in an 52 Singer McEntire 
apron honkers
OW 21 On the_ 53 Crime buster N A (fleeing} 
35 Writer Rice 

49 Lake near 54 It has its ups E y 22 Rich fertilizer 37 U.S. investment Niagara Falls and downs instrument
25 Frosh, next year 26 Cry on a 38 Moderated 
roller coaster 42 Past, present 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
A p 27 Subject to a and future i-;.;.i..;;;.i...,;;..ii~~;......-1-~ draft 43 Henry V, to 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). BIK ~S~~ Henry IV Annual subscriptions are available for the L A I N R D A N C E boastfully of , 44 Sub that sank best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 E N D E S E S S E D 29 Mirror Allied ships years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http.1/observer.nd.edu/ 

-----------------------------------------------------------~-------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
MONDAY, APRIL 3, 2000 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Ex­
DAY: Alec Baldwin, Jennie Garth, pect opposition from your mate if 
Marlon Brando, Eddie Murphy, Mar­you are getting too chummy with co­
sha Mason workers. Find a solution that is suit­
Happy Birthday: Pace yourself able but not confining. Suggest that th.is yeai;, and you will do extremely he or she go out with friends, too. well. Let your sensitive side emerge. 000 Be realistic regarding your goals and LIBRA (SEPT. 23-0CT. 22): Try don't try to rush them to completion. not to be such an open book. Your Be aware that opportunities aren't personal secrets will be revealed if always clearly in view. You have lots you are too open with friends about to offer and plenty to gain if you take your feelings. Someone you work your time and do things right the with may not be as good a friend as first time around. Your numbers: 5, you think. 000 12, 15, 23, 34, 48 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Do Deception will put you in an awk­things with family members who ward position. Try not to reveal your don't get out that often. Property true feelings about a situation that is investments look promising. Don't causing a lot of controversy. Don't let outsiders get involved in han­take sides in a debate, or you may dling personal matters. 000 get blamed. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. had better plan an active day. Your 21): Your partner will be extremely mate will be erratic and hard to han­sensitive if you have been too busy dle if you allow too much idle time. to spend time with them. Stay away Go out to a movie or get involved in from risky investments. Try to spend some form of competitive sports. a quiet evening with your lover. 
000 00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): can use your discipline to pick up Don't shirk family obligations. Your new skills or complete courses of change of attitude may be confusing interest. Making money will be your your partner. Let this person know main goal. Look into small-business that it doesn't mean that your feel­opportunities. Don't rely on others. ings have changed. 00 0000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): It is Focus on moneymaking oppor­best to face an emotional situation tunities. Form partnerships and con­head-on. You may not like what you sider getting into business. Do every­find out but in the long run it will be thing by tli.e book. Problems with to your benefit. Get in touch with old government agencies and red tape friends and prepare to start again. are evident. 0000 00 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will will be emotionally unstable if your exhaust yourself if you've taken on mate is treating you with disrespect. too much. Ask for help or an exten­Make changes or the situation will sion on your deadlines. Personal get worse. Your next step will be to matters may crop up and delay mat­trade your partner in for a better ters even further. 00000 model.000 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, giving and loyal. You will work hard to reach your life goals. Being stubborn may hold you back. You must allow your imagination to flourish. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com. astromate.com.) 
<t> 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
....
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address ____________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
FOOTBALL 
By TIM CASEY A%tstant Sporrs Editor 

Everv week he was out there f<Jr millions to see, cov­ering the nation's finest receivers. 
Michigan's David Terrell, Stanford's Troy Waltr~rs. Michigan State's Plaxico Burress and USC's IL Jav Soward all took their turns with Clifford J efforson a year ago. 
He was a first-vear starter at cornerback. "thrust into the role after Bruck Williams was suspended for the year. The•opposing coaches decid­ed to pick on the rookie. throwing his way, trying to see if the sophomore could handle their star receivers. 
By all accounts, Jefferson struggled. 

And with those struggles, especially here at Notre Dame, comes scrutiny. Just ask Ron Powlus, Jim Sanson, Bob Davie and all the other highly visible Irish players and coaches who have felt the wrath that accompanies failure on the nation's grandest of all college foot­ball stages. 
But instead of letting the heckling get to him, Jefferson chose to ignore it. 
"You· re really not sup­posed to pay attention to that," Jefferson said. "I tried to shy away from it. My self­ego is pretty high. I brushed it off and came back for the next season trying to play 
-
-
.. 

PORTS 
page 24 


better." 

He started all 12 games last year, rPcording 77 ta<'k­les and breaking up eight passes. But thP most memo­rable scenes were those of receivers scoring touch­downs and catching long passes with Jefferson cover­ing. With the passing weeks. many began to wonder why Jefferson was still playing. 
"A lot of gnys would have tucked their tail." Davie said or Jefferson. "lie got heat and everybody saw he got beat. But he kept compet­ing." 
As he enters his junior sea­son, Jefferson's competitive spirit is needed more than ever. With the return of Williams as well as sopho­mores Jason Beckstrom and Albert Poree, the corneshack position is again open. 
"Clifford's got some pres­sure on him," Davie said. "It's close. But Clifford's working and he's trying to improve. He's working at the things he struggled with last year. But there's a lot of competition there fat corner­backJ." 
Coming to Notre Dame out of Carter High School in Dallas, Texas, Jefferson was seen as a future star. As a senior, he ,vas named a USA Today first-team All­American and was ranked among the Top 25 players nationally by the Chicago Sun-Times. Those accolades, 
see JEFFERSON/page 21 
TRACK 

Irish make history with six broken records at home 
West set a new track and 4x100. This is our sport, it's a 
By BRIAN BURKE 
Notre Dame record with their track record, and we worked Spotts Writer 
time of 40.22 seconds. hard for it." "I wasn't surprised they Cochran and Davey finished 
Going into the only home broke the record, but I was first and second in the 100 competition of the year, the surprised meters with !\otre Dame men's and they broke it times of 10.77 women's track and field teams by that mar­"I wasn't surprised they and 10.93 looked to stay sharp in prepa­gin, consid-broke the record, but I respectively, ration for upcoming traveling ering the while Cochran
was suprised they broke
meets. guys that and West fin­
Placing first in the four-team had run it it by that margin consid­ished first and field. which both the men and before," ering the guys that had second in the women did. would have been assistant 200 meters
run it before."

enough to accomplish that coach John with times of goal. The Irish however, made Millar said. 21.55 and some history as well. "l think the John Millar 21.64. 
The men's 4xl00 meter relay weather West and
Irish assistant coach

time of 40.68 seconds run in helped us Gilbert were 1991 by the> f'ootball playPr out a bit. It the top two quartet. of Clint .Johnson, Hod turned out to be good." long jumpers as well. with Smith. Willie Clark and Haghib "We're very proud that this jumps of 24 feet 7 3/4 inches Ismail is now the second is a record we earned," Davey and 23-0 3/4. fastest in Notre Dame history. said . '' IHead I Coach I.Joe I While the men's 4xl00 set 
Travis Davev, Chris Cochran, Piano was telling us there Torn Gilbert· and Marshaun were no football players on the 
see TRACK/page# 
• 
at Georgetown
Softball ar Purdue
~-
'1 
Wednesday3:30 p.m.
SPORTS vs. DePaul ·,~~~•' Wednesday, 1 p.m. t Tuesday, 3 p.m. ATA 
Softball

Baseball Men's Golf ~ vs. Ball State ac Calvin at Marshall Invitational 
. -e 
Wednesday, 3:30 p.m. 

GLANCE •Tuesday, 5:05 p.m. Friday-Sunday 







