'. 
Literary Lessons
Guerilla Attacks Continue 

Friday
Bharti Mukherjee, among other authors, willIsraeli forces continue to fight in Lebanon, but 
the worst may be over. 

read al the Sophomore Literary Festival beginning lhis weekend.
WorldNation . page 5 

FEBRUARYll 
Scene . page 16 
2000 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 81 

Senate reduces O'Donoghue penalty 
Affairs. This allowed the senate

By LAURA ROMPF 
to rPduce, increase or change

A~sistJlll New., Editor 
thi, imposed pi,nalty by thi, Elections Committee. "We agrned IWednesdayl

In an t:miergency meeting last night that there was a viola­
night, I.hi' SP1rnl11 passnd an 
tion," said Carroll Hall senator 

amendment 16-6 dm:reasing 
Patrick O'Donnell. "A penaltythr campaign susµrnision on lhn needed to be imposed on the 

B r i a n 
()'Donoghue/Norton campaign. 

()'Donoghue However, we are allowed to 
/Brookn 
reduce, increase or change the 

Norton 
other penalty. I vote that we 

campaign. 
make the suspension one dayTtw bvlaw because the two day punish­

passed by ment is entirely unfair. I do the Senate 
have confidence in the Judicial 

i n 
Committee, but the punishmentWednesday is unjust. Enough damage has 

night's 
already been done to their 

meeting 
campaign." 

was approviid yesllffday by .Joe Cassidy, dirnctor of Student 
see SENATE/page 8 


HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Candidates: student input is crucial 
"Our entire platform is cen­the vice president of Student 
By lAURA ROMPF tered around the idea that the Affairs so that we may see an 
Assis,am News Editor students should have a far more increased student voice on this 
active role in the decisions campus." 
Several candidates' platforms ma.de around this campus," said Several faculty members of before the student body presi­Jim Focht, vice presidential committees agreed with the stu­dential election address the fea­hopeful. dents, noting sibility of increasing student "The more student rep­membership on University com­students on "The more students on resentation 
university would be
mittees. university committees the 
"Students offer a unique per­committees, beneficial.
better off this University
spective ,vhich cannot be the better off "Do I think matched by any other contin­t h i s will be." students gent of the Cniversity communi­University should con­ty," said presidential candidate will be." tinue to be on
Jim Focht

Brian O'Donoghue. "While Vice presi­the commit­
vice presidential hopeful
administrators and faculty can dential can­tee?" said offer a great deal of informa­didate John Kevin Huie, tion, they can never know Micek said assistant exactly what it is like for a stu­the Board of Trustee's report director of multicultural student 
dent. ... Students can constantly focuses on this issue and his affairs and member of the uni­offer views which only can come ticket would also work to versity committee on cultural from actually being a student increase student representation. diversity. "Absolutely. In my and being on the receiving end "Hunt [Hanover] and I are opinion.the student's voice is the of important decisions." dedicated to increasing this rep­most important assessment tool Other candidates agreed with resentation," Micek said. "We O'Donoghue. are committed to working with see INPUT/page 6 
'Sister act' an option for college women 
Students consider vocations with the Sisters of the Holy Cross 
By NELLIE WILLIAMS News Writer 
On Saturday ev1ming, Notre Dame junior Ileather Phillips will be getting ready for a dance. 
Unlike other young women, however, Phillips wilt bf! wondering what her date thought of this article. 
The studio art major and theology minor enjoys aerobics, drawing and painting water­colors. Sh!' likns playing with kids and loves Hallmark cards. She enjoys writing and piec­ing together puzzles. 
And, one day, slrn may he a nun. 
"It's kind of a. sensitive thing," she said. "I've been thinking about the sisterhood since I was 15. I would always joke around with my panmts about it." 
Phillips is one of only a few women study­ing with the Sisters of the Holy Cross in order to bP. a nun. 
/\cross the country, the number of women joining convenL'i has been decreasing. 
Sister Margaret Andre and Sister Margaret Mary Lavon is, both in charge of the Vocation Ministry for Holy Cross Sisters, belir.ve that the opportunities available to women today that did not exist 50 years ago have caused a decrease in women joining the sisterhood. 
"When I was graduating from college, women were like ser,ond class citizens," said Lavonis. "Tlrn only women administrators of schools and hospitals were sisters." 
In the 1950s and 1%Os, about 50 forma­tion classes for joining the Holy Cross Sister's Community were offered each year. Today in the U.S., there is one a year. 
"A lot of people find it hard to make a per­manent decision," said Lavonis. · The Holy Cross community is international and has many sisters serving in eight foreign countries, which helps bolster numbers. 
"Some communities are not international like we are and are dying out,"said Lavonis. 
The number of nuns teaching at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's has not decreased. Often, nuns do not wear traditional habits, which makes them less identifiable. 
Although sisters are not very visible, the priests at Notre Dame are a part of everyday life and Old College is well-known on cam­pus. 
Andre attributes the high percentage of young men studying to be priests at Notre Dame to the visibility and daily interactions with priests around campus. 
"I think it's because Notre Dame priests always talk about vocations and religious life. The visibility helps the students think," she said. 
However, some students are aware of the nuns' presence on campus. 
Phillips began talking to Lavonis last May and suggested the Holy Cross sisters start a vocation faith sharing group. 
Phillips had been attending a vocation group with men in Old College and Father Bill Wack. However, being the only woman in the group "felt strange," to Phillips. 
Now, Phillips attends the vocation faith sharing group she helped create with the Sisters of the Holy Cross once a month. 
One reason Phillips believe she was drawn to learn more about the Sisters of the Holy Cross is because shc, is at Notre Dame. 
Growing up in Sacramento, Calif.. she attended a single-sex Catholic school. At home she would complain to her dad about the nun's habits. 
"I used to say, 'Oh, dad, I could never be a nun because l hate their shoes,"' Phillips said. 
Although stereotypes about nuns exist, such as they are only teachers or nurses, 
see SISTERS/page 4 

NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer 

Heather Phillips and her mentor, Sister Margaret Andre, spend a moment in reflection in the Church of Our Lady of Loretto. 
.'
... 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, February 11, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Beware of the swans 

The last few years of student government has seen an incredible variety o!' leaders. We have had a Student Body King crowned 011 the steps of the Main Building and declare that everyone bow to him in greeting. We have had candidates win under 
slogans such as "Bring the [Grateful) Dead to campus," and serious competition from "Kill the swuns1" We've seen inept and unethical presidents blasted in nation­al news wires as they faced ethics hearings and petitions 


of recall. We've even seen 
A.J. Boyd

{and this is truly scan­dalous!) the successful implementation of a senate Assistant made up of democratically Viewpoint elected repn~sentatives to Editor serve the students' interest. 
At the same time as this radical form of govcrnmrnt was implemented. the duties of all student government officers ·were rcdetined. The rule ol' student policy mak­ers /who wresLle with administrators, represent the students and allocate our money) and stu­dent programmers (who coordinatP concerts. An Tosta! and otl1er entmtainment eventsl was divided. The Senate is invested with the responsi­bilities of leadership. and Executive Cabinet groups (CCC. HPC. SUB and class of1irers) take care of the run stuff. 
Despite this plethora of politicians. with a dear separation of powers, there is a perennial con­cern among some votns that student govern­ment is a clique that serves only ils own interests and that the solution is to send in a l'ew "out­siders" to break it up. 
Unfortunately. the result of this effort bas con­sistently been the election of"outsiders" who just bring in their own diques. Then it seems we've been duped back to square one. 
Just consider what happened a r,ouple years a go when junior dass officer Matt Griffin was elected student body president over senator Matt Szabo. No fewer than 1 g ethical viol.1tions. a recall petition and a $25,000 debt left from turn­ing the President's Ofiice into a private party marked that year. 
The true solution seems obvious: Elect a ticket that's had enough experience as representative leaders. They should also know both how to get things done and how to bring in people from all over campus to work with. Striking examples or ideal presidential candidates have popped up in recent years: former vicr.-president Megan Murrav, '98. former chief of staff and reformer Brend~n Kelly, '98, and two-time senator and chief of staff Matt Mamak. '00. 
Unfortunately, none or these ideal presidents even ran for the office. 
What qualities did these people bave that made them so ideal? All of them served on the Senate and either in the Office of the President or the Executive Cabinet. All of them had experience on the Campus Life Council. They all knew how to deal with the administration, and though diplo­matic, all were rarely seen as conciliatory when it came to defending the students' issues. They were true enough politicians that they wouldn't turn student government into a private clique. 
So, if students take the lessons of the past with them this year, we won't have to worry about it next year, and we can actually see student gov­ernment accomplish all the things of our wildest dreams. Well. that. or at least keep out of trou­ble. 
The views expressed in the inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Scene  
Erin Pirourek  Mike Yam:gas  
Maribel Morey  Graphics  
Nicole HaJ<la<l  Joe Mueller  
Sports  Production  
Kevin Berchou  Lauren Berrigan  
Viewpoint  Noah Amsradcer  
Mary Marg:irer N11ssb:mm  Lab Tech  
Angel:1 Campos  

The Obscrn:r (l,Sl'S 59~ 2-4000) " p11blislicd Mond,1y through Frid,y txe-cpt during t:x.1m ,ind Vdc1rion prrio&~-The Observer is ;t u1e111ber of 1he A.,;~tH_·i,tt~d l1rt"SS. All reprodm.'tioi1 rights .trc r(·St."rved. 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Director discusses crowded, co-ed dorms ND student wins Publisher's Clearing House 
Friday, Feb. 12, 1971 Thursday, Feb. 14, 1991 
Director of' Liniv1irsity Residency announced to the On her way to a physics exam early in the morning, Hosidnnce Hall Presidents that Flanner Tower would be sophomore Annie Cahill received a suprisc that really a ro-ed dorm during the 1971 summf'r sPssion with men made her day. The Clearing llouse otTPred her a check 
and women alternating floors. The incoming class was !'or $25,000 or a Nissan 300 ZX, but she opted for the car. 
also much larger than experted. Six men would be Flooded with loans, Cahill was then certain that she could 
placed in a three-room and four-man suite until other return to Notre Dame the next year. She also planned to 
rooms would open up on campus. g-o to Florida for Spring Break with the extra cash. 
OUTSIDE THE DOME Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Ohio U. activist in court for burning gay flag 
ATIIENS, Ohio 
vation lo destroy the flag was the sex­
Charles Spingola, tl11~of the reli­ual orientation of the flag's owner," he gfous activists who has preached on said. "This is the city's first ethnic Ohio university's College Grm:n, must intimidation trial involving sexual ori­defend his actions und bdiefs toward entation that I am aware of." gays, lesbians, bisexuals and trans­If convicted, Spingola faces up to six gm1dc1· pmiple in cou1·t lhis week. monlhs in jail and a $1,000 fine. 
Spingola. an evangelical preacher Spingola r.alls the charge nonsense. f'rom Nr,wark, Ohio, ripped dovm and "This day is full of' Orwellian doubles­burned a rainbow-colored flag llying peak." Spingola said. "They're trying on the Ohio Statehouse grounds. Thn to include themselves in with [protec­
us," he said. 

flag llHw at the Statdmuso for tho first tion for] people of gender or race." 
lledfield tiled the complaint against 

time in honor of Columbus' annual He reels the flag should not have 
Spingola. charging that he broke

gay-pride march on .lune 27, IlJ99. been thorn in the first place. "When 
Columbus' 10-vear-old e!.hnir intimi­

"I think he did it to upsrl thf' gay you start to put up flags on the Capitol 
dation ordinance. which indudr.s sex­

community," said Jeff Hedfield, execu­building, it makes young people think 
ual orientation. 

tive director of lhc Stonl\Wall [GBLT people! are dominating or
Attorm1ys wrappi>d up jury sfllectiun 

Columbus, which has organized claiming victory," he said. "But they're 
l'or Spingola's trial Wednesday. And

Columbus· gay-pride march l'or 18 not dominating or victorious over any­
Stephen McIntosh. chief prosecutor,

years. thing."
said he hopes to conclude the trial

"He wanted to disgrace and degrade Andrew Colopy, discussion leader 
Monday.

us. We went through all of the proper for OU's OpP.n Doors organization, said 
"We have to establish that his moti­

procedures to have the flag flown for he disapproves of Spingola's behavior. 
Court upholds NCAA standards 
Recruit receives 37 yrs. sentence 
STANFOHD, Calif. 
MADISON, Wis. 

A recent decision by the Third Circuit U.S. Court of 
At an emotional sentencing bearing Wednesday. Jae! 
Appeals found that the NCM's academic standards do 
Speights, 19, was sentenced to 37 years in prison and 
not have a discriminatory effect against African­
40 years probation after pleading no contest to two 
American student-athletes, reversing an earlier federal 
counts of sexual assault and one count of robbery. 
decision. The late December ruling will have little effect 
Speights, of Zion, Ill., is a former University of 
on the eligibility of prospective Stanford athletes, 
Wisconsin-Madison freshman football recruit on full 
according to Athletics Department officials, because 
scholarship to play fullback for the Badgers. Since his 
Stanford's academic standards are already so high. The 
Aug. 20 arrest. he has been held on $15,000 bail set by 
decision resulted from the NCAA's appeal of an April 
Dane County Court Commissioner Todd Meurer. Head 
1999 case in which four African-American student-ath­
Coach Barry Alvarez suspended the 235-pound fullback 
letes complained that the minimum standards for 
from the Wisconsin football team in August. According 
accepting freshmen using standardized test scores vio­
to police reports, Speights entered through an unlocked 
lated Title VI of the Civil Hights Act. The minimum stan­
door of a UW student's apartment at approximately 
dards are part of a 19% NCAA ruling called Proposition 
3:30 a.m. July 31. The victim told police officers that 
16. which mandated that athletes have a grade-point 
Speights, after originally identifying himself as a friend 
average of 2.5 and an SAT score above 820. If the ath­
of her acquaintance, repeatedly threatened, hit and 
lete's GPA was 2.0, their SAT score needed to be al 
choked her as he sexually assaulted her. Several family 
least 1010. Students also needed to complete at lea.'it 13 
members of the survivor spoke at the hearing, pleading 
core academic classes. The plaintiffs argued the SAT is 
Judge Stuart Schwartz to give the maximum sentence 
a culturally biased examination and therefore should 
on behalf of the survivor. "For me to heal, I have to for­
not be used as an eligibility requirement. 
give him," the survivor's father said. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast Ac~uWeather'"forecast for daytime conJitlnns and high ternperalures 
The AccuWeather" lorecast for noon.Friday, Feb. 11. 
H L Friday ~ 32 14 Saturday ~ 29 22 Sunday Q. 37 27 Monday Q. 40 27 

C 2000 AccuWeelher, Inc. COLD WARM SiAIIONARY Pr,..u,.: 
,,.

® © Cl D. CJ. D . c:.m ~;l,i #$,l.W)
.
Tuesday Q. 42 26 
High i.o'I Shcwers Rairt T•l1orms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny P1, Cloudy Cloudy
. t,;.·";: 
VMt As5QCff.lt9d Pf#fi/1

=.:· ~-Y: 
;~,., 
A11an1a 63 46 Louisville 47 27 Portland 47 34 Boston 45 24 Memphis 53 36 Sacramento 58 49 Colo. Springs 36 22 Miami 74 62 SI. LOUIS 33 24
9,Q,~p~Q q ~ Ll 
Chicago 34 20 New York 49 31 Tampa 76 58
Showers T•storms Rain Flurr,es Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Clowy Cloudy 
Honolulu 81 66 Philadelphia 47 29 Wash DC 50 31
Via Associet6d Pross GmpttfcsNe/ 
Friday, Ft:-bruary 11, 2000 77Je Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page j 
New board tp focus on increasing Saint Mary's diversity 
year's Ethnic Diversity togflther in a celebration of the know that there will be a net­zation that will provide educa­By Si\HAII RYKOWSKI Commissioner Akmaral diversity of ('Very woman on work of support for them at tional opportunities about. vari­
News 'X'ri ter 
Omarova, provided the leader­campus. Saint Mary's. Thus we hope to ous cultures, countries and peo­
ship in formulation of the cur­''As we learn more about each bring in more cultural diversity p Ie," Omarova said. "These 
With tlH\ advent of' the rent proposal. other, we will become more in student population as well." opportunities will include Studfrnt Divorsitv Board, Saint Omarova, a student from the educated, understanc.ling and The fourth objective of the speaker series, shows. news Ma1•y's continuc·s to renew its furmPr Soviet Union lfopublic accepting," Omarova said. new Diversity Hoard is to pro­and lectures." pledge to increase the diversity Kazakhstan, was intrigued bj "Every woman at SMC is vide a discussion forum. The Public Relations or its campus. The Board of the project. unique and we waut to cele­"l have spoken to many stu­Committee will publicize events Governance approved lhP hoard "The initial idea was brought brate this nniqueness." tlPnts who have exprPssed the sponsored by the Diversity Tuesday. up to me by [Hoscnbush]. but I The third goal of the board is lack of support for minority stu­Hoard and will be responsible 
"This will be a governing decided to go with it only after to provide dents on c:am-for publications. board that will work to address talking to students, faculty and support for pus," The Programming Committee diverse student issues," said administration," Omarova said. ethnic stu­Omarova will plan and organize social
,<Diversity issues are so
(;1~orgeanna Hosenbush, advisor '"I have talkfld to many students dents and said. "Being a events sponsored by the board.
broad and deep in
to student govPrnmnnt and and have seen a burst of enthu­increase minority, The Diversity Board's dirnctor of student activities at siasm and exdtemeut about it. enrollment nature that it warrants these students Admissions Committee will Saint Mary's. "Like tho arrrns of Students have been saying that and retention felt underrnp­assist the Admissions Office
more attention than one 
academics and residence lifo, they ncec.led something like this rates of eth­rc sented in with recruitment of multicultur­
commissioner or
ciivursity issues am so broad a long time ago. There is a defi­nic students terms of pro­al and international students. and c.lePµ in 1mture that it war­nite need for this organization at Saint individual clubs and gramming "I beli1we that the new board rants more attention than one on the student body's part." Mary's. events, poli­established at this proposed
organizations can give. " 
commissionnr or inc.lividual Tho board has a fourfold pur­"We hope cies, and edu­level of student government will dubs and organizations can pose. Its foundPrs want to hPlp that with the cational have an impact on the student giv1)," she said. students develop an awareness formation of Georgeanna Rosenbush opportuni­and campus culture as a whole 
Ideas won' debated, but until and respef'.t for tho history, cul­this board wo director of student activities ties." over time,'" Rosenbush said. 
a year and a half' ago, no on1' tures. traditions and religions of will demon­seriously considered a board. multicultural and int!lrnatiunal strate that 
"The topic of bow to support students. the issue of diversity is impor­diversity on our campus has "The number one objective of tant to both the students and lHrnn an issuo l'or [Student this board is tu educate the SMC administration of the College," Government Associationl lead­community on issu!ls about Omarova said. ers O\Pr the µast years," diversity," Omarova said. "This way, we hope to attract H.osenbush said. The board also hopes to bring more prospective students from 
With tlrn support of BOG. this tho Saint Mary's community various backgrounds who will 

OHCam~ 
llmior Parmt Wukfflb Special ~ctm.l\"117-ll, 2~ 
Come earfy; stay late, same price! 
Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms 
available for your parents. Weekend cost is $60.00 per parent. VVhelher you stay Two, three, or four nights. Rooms are available Thursday through Sunday. 
for reservations, cal! 219-631-7512. 


, 
?Jtiud, "6o4,, Sjwzit,. .Ae~o/, &0-Utff €~ Z~'V~A~7aut 

&~'!)~A~11/ed 
7~f4-fi. 2000 

Membership "As with any new student gov­
on the board ernment Board, there will be a is open to all students at Saint period of adjustment while Mary's College. Education, pub­building their identity and role lic relations, programming and within the Saint Mary's commu­admissions Committees willas­nity. I anticipate many good sist the board. things happening on our cam­
"I would like to encourage pus as a result of their good everyone to participate in our work," she added. board," Omarova said. "There At-large representatives will will be a lot of opportunities also have a scat on the board, available through participation appointed by their respective on the board or the commit­boards, organizations and tees." College departments. 
The elections for the board "I have received extremely will be run concurrently with positive feedback and strong class boards on Feb. 23. support from administration 
Raising the awareness of and faculty as well," Omarova diversity issues is one duty of said. "With all this support and the Educational Committee. enthusiasm, I have the confi­
"Being by circumstances a dence that over time the hoard rather secluded campus, the will be successful in reaching its Saint Mary's community will objectives and playing a vital benefit from having an organi-role on this campus." 
Come to the ... 

Student Body Presidential Election Debate 
Sunday, February 13 
3:00 at the LaFortune Ballroom 
IJ11, 

*Refreshments will be served* 

' ' 


.. 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 11, 2000 
SMC students circulate petition 

• Students say elections were 
'handled unfairly' 
Bv COLLEEN McCARTHY Associate New, Editor 
Although the student govern­ment assodation constitution at Saint Mary's does not have pro­vision for students who are dis­pleased with election results, thri>e Saint Marv's students haVP taken matters· into their own hands. 
Juniors Tara Cuµelli, Kalil' Quinn and Meghan McCormick came up with a plan to help stu­dent voices be heard on camµus regarding the election situation after attending a question and answer session with the Hoard of Governance on Tuesday. 
Cupelli, Quinn and McCormick brgan circulating the pr,tition on Weduesday and collected 332 signatures by Thursday, repre­senting 25.4 percent uf tlrn stu­dent body. 
"After the meeting. I was not happy," said Cupolli. "l wrote a letter to [College president] Dr. [Marilou} Eldred and decided we needed to start a petition." 
The petition states that the election for president and vi~:e president was "handled unfairlv by the Board of Governance, Elections Committee, Elections Appeals board and the director of Student Activities." It goes on to state that "As students of Saint Mary's College W(~ feel that our votes bave been discounted and our opinion not valued." 
By signing the petition, stu­dents are requesting for a fair and accurate representation of the views of the students, said Cupelli. 
"We went door to door and took the petition to classes but some people found us because they heard we were circulating the petition," said Cupelli. "For the most part, peoples' respons­es wne extremely positive." 
The three women plan to sub­mit the petition to the board of governance along with a letter that thev will also send to Eldred, Linda Timm and direc­
tor of student activities Georgeanna Rosenbush. 
"Our point is that by circulat­ing this peliliou, we are not attacking any of the candidates," sairl Quinn. "They're all quali­fierl to hold tlie positions, but it is not fair that Board of Governance took determining the decision of the election into their own hands and didn't let the students decide." 
McCormick hopes the petition wil I send a message to the Board of Governance. 
··we realize that Board of Governance's decision might be final, but tve feel the majority of students weren't represented and that's what they said they;-. ., · were doing," said '.VlcCormick. ,~ 
Cupelli hoµes the petition will signal to the Board of Governance that they axe not, representing the majority of the studf'nts who vot0d in last Wednesday's election with their decision. 
"Board of Governance said at the meeting Tuesday that. their decision was final, but we want tlrnm to know that according to this petition. they are not repre­senting the majority of the stu­dents," said Cupelli. "We want to make a point that students are not being listened to." 
Although the three women du not expect that the Board of Governance will change its deci­sion to render Renner and Nagle victorious in the election, they feel an apology from the Board of Governance is in order. 
"At the very least, Board of Governance should admit they made a mistake by taking the election decision out of the hands of the students," said Cupelli. "I clearly think that with 33 2 signatures of the student body, it is obvious that the stu­dent body thinks they were wrong." 
Quinn agreed. 

"I don't know that Board of Governance will change any­thing alter the way they reacted at the meeting Tuesday saying their decision was final, but if so much of the student bodv wants thP decision changed, h·ow can this one board sav no'?" said Quinn. · 
." 

Sisters 
continued from page l 
Phillips said she has leanrnd otherwise. 
"I thought [nuns] worn won­derful. l\fony touched my life by example," shesaid. 
She does not feel she would be limited in life choices as a Sister. 
"Part nf me f'ep]s .limited at times, but \vhcn I step back and look at it, it's such a liber­ating life choice -there's still so much freedom there," Phillips said. 
Contrary to the sisterhood, Phillips still considers mar­riage an option. 
"f think marriage is still such a beautiful option. Sometimes I think I would really miss out not haYing a family of my own or kids. Hut then I think, what if~ '4!,8.S working in an orphan­age for kids caring that way?" she said. 
Sh0 also questions whether she will be lonely. 
"What if ['m truly alone? 'vVhat if you want someone to hold you -something like that'?" 
For now, Phillips will just keep praying about her choice, 
Iler family, Phillips sairl, is very supporliYe of her search­ing. Her mother once consid­ered becoming a nun and lrnr grandfather thought about the priesthood. 
"It's something in our family. It's a ·way we see the best pos­sible way to answer to God's call in complete service," Phillips said. Before joining, at least six months of discern­ment, pre-candidate (no set length), candidate (one to two years). noviate (two years), temporary incorporation (usu­ally five years), and then the final vows arc required steps. 
Phillips is currently in the stage or discernment. She is exploring her options and learning more about the reli­gious life. 
FOP~>.L 
co.me.~~~ 
".It's a process of 'yes, yos' or 'no, no' -a process of exposure," she said. "l got the 
impression they want people lo wait and know for sure bcfor,:' making a commit­ment. 
To help young women in deciding whe1her or not they want to commit to the sister'­hood, the Sistnrs of the Holy Cross have created a pince to help women pomlcr tlw com­mitment. 
They have created a house, the Discernmeiit Jlouse, also called the lipper Room. The house was created to provide a community and reflective environment while discerning whether God is calling them to religious life as sisters. The first young woman to live in this environment arrived in early January and is living in the Upper Boom with four other nuns. 
Not onlv is th.is Colorado­native Kathleen Hick's first time living in the Midwest, it is also her first time living with a community of Sisters. She admits it is challenging. 
"It's a r0al challenging jour­ney to be on. Being in my 20s, I'm the only one here my age and I am loosfolv connected to the community,'~ said Hicks. 
She believes it takes much courage for people tu explore lhis commilmenl when they fool they have received a cal! to the religious order. 
"This isn't a call tu be a nun," she said. '·This is a call about being a full person. It's not about becoming a nun ­it's about becoming myself in the greatest way I can." 
Hick does not foci there is a secure delinition of what reli­gious life is about. "It's a mys­tery," she said. "There are these old stereotypes that becoming a nun is like giving your life away. We're kind of afraid of this old tradition of nuns our mothers grew up with." 
She said shn thinks the nuns are also intimidated by the younger generation. 

"They may be intimidated by the lack or structure our gen­eration has. The world is a dif­ferent place than it was 20 to 30 years ago, and the Sisters are trying to redefine their life with the time going on." 
llicks, like Phillips, has doubts about her call to reli­gious life. 
However, she foels drawn to having a community life. 
"I realize where I am is where I want to be," said Hicks. 
llicks can live in the Upper Room for up to two years. 
"As long as I feel it's where I want to he, I'll stay." she said. "I can move un if I discover it isn't." Lavouis and Andre believe that young wonrnn need to know the option to he a nun exists. 
"The kPy is desire," said Andn~. "When you keep get­ting the same thought over and over again-it's a signal that God is trying to tell you something." 
A vocation faith sharing group, open to all, will be on Feb. 17 at 8:15 p.m. in the guest house next to the Church of Our Lady of Loretto, A dis­cernment retreat will take place the first weekend of March at Mary Solitude. 





ALL STADIUM SEATING. ALL DIGITAL SOUND 

SHOWPLACE 16 
Just West of Main St. on Chi ewa • 299-6063 
Students and Sen!~~~-~4_,50 A~.Y!!fll~_ 

-s4_50 All Shows Before 6 pm • Advance Ticket Sales Available :J 6. 
:'. 
· AU Times for Feb. 11-13 Only Saturday & Sunday Matinees in l.lrackets 
, The Beach (R) Digital Scream 3 (R) Digital ; 
[12:50] J:50 7: 10 9:50 ['12:05 2:50] 5:30 8:05 10:4.'i 
[1:50] 4:50 7:40 10:25 [l:IO] 3:45 fdO 915 , The Tiggcr 1\fovic (G) Digital [i:4(J] 4:l'i 7:CXJ 9:4.'i t I12:00 ?.:(Xl] 4:(Xl 620 8JO [2: IOJ 4:45 7J0 !O: 15 f, [1.00 J:(X)) 5.CXJ 6:50 8·50 Next .Ftidav tRi Uigtlal 
:· 
i: The 'Whole Nine Yard, (k)SM'AK l'R1.m.w [ 12:20 2:'i5J 5:20 7•5{) I0:05 / iUO pm Sat. Feb. 12 Only D1~ital Calaxy Quest (PG) Digi1al 
; :: Snow Day (l'G) Digital 112:1:i 2:451 ,:tl'i n.'.i 9s; ;: [ 12:10 2:40] 4:40 7:.'iO 9:40 -Stuart Littl<.' (PG) Digital 
) [ [I '30] 4: 10 6:40 9·(Xl l11 :50 I·5:iJ 4:0'i 6: IS 8·2:, [ Angela's Ashes (R) Digital The Green l\lilc {R) Digital 
[ 12· 1:'ij S: 15 8:20 [12:-10] 4:25 '8: 10 f· The Hurricane (R) Digital *r\o Show Sm. Feb. 12 . [1.-l:i] 5 IO 8.15 End of the Affair (R) Digllal 
: 10:30 
·--·-----...~--­
ONI. y $1 00 All Shows Beto.re 6 pm

ScoTTSDALE 6 
• Everyone• Everycfay Scottsdale Mall • 299"6063 $1.50 All Evening Shows ';1 6. 
; The Bachelor (PG-13) Supernova (PG-13} 
[2:[X)] 5:<Xl 7::o 9:30
[ J:20] 4: IO 7 :00 9:50 
Hone Collector (RiAnna and the King (PG-13) 

[ l :'iO] 4:40 7: 10 10:0'i
[IJOl 4:50 s:m 
Double Jeopard) (R)

The Worltl ls Not Eno1111h (PG-13) [ I :(XII 4·00 6:.'iO 940 
[l:./Oj 4:107:10 9:55 . . 
·~~ ,· _.,._.,._..., ,.·.... , . .,._ . . u-.•~• ,. 
..,... .f'N,.U.
..... ~ ~.......--

OMc.~----.,-~~
..... ~ 
1posored hr: N.A.A.C.P>
~-~ 



. 
f. 
' 
' 
I•. 

AFP Photo Lebanese Hozbollah fighters pray in the fields on the area bordering the Israeli-occupied zone of south Lebanon Thursday. A member of the pro-Syrian guerilla group was wounded in one of several Israeli air raids in south Lebanon the same day as Israel and Hezbollah kept up their attacks. 
Israeli guerillas fight in Lebanon 
V:riday, February 1l, 2000 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Afghan plane hijacking 
crisis over 
STANSTED, England 

About half lhP boslag,•s frnPd from a hijacknd ,\l'ghan airliner rnquostcd asylum in Hritain. but thoi,-74 applications ran into imnrndial!i skfipticism Thursday from offirials wlin (\~arPd Lhe l'uur-day drama was all au elabnratn hid to f'.Scapn Afghanistan. Police atT('StPd 21 pPopln as thr standoff rndPd µ,~acdully before sunrise Thursday. At 3:50 
a.m.. about 85 captlvPs mostly women and 21 childrnn -suddenly streamed down the air­c:rafrs rear s(airs, illuminatHd by bright lights, ttwir flowing garmPnts flutti~ring in the wind. Tim rnst, including the hijackers. lilr,d down tlw stairs two hours later. Officials said the hija,·kf,rs 1wvPr ask(id !'or asylum, but many others on Llw flight did. l lurnc Secretary Jar:k Straw told the Ilouse of Cornn10rn, that Britain would try to c!Pport thPm. subject to IP-gal rPquin'n1t~n ts. 
U.S. struggles with China trade deal 
V\'ASHl'.\IGTON 

The White ffousn knows it has a struggle on its hands gl'lting folto,v Democrats to sign on tn a 1ww trad!' agrPement with China, C:abinl't secretaries and President Clinton ·s top aide said Thursday. "This is going to be thl' tough­est right W(' face this year on Capitol llill." said Whit!' Ilouse chief of' staff John Podesta, as lw asked f'or lobbying lwlp from agrirnltur­al intr.rnsts. Thr. Clinton administration wants a votP as early as possibll'. and definitely befor(' midsummer. on tradP accords that would S<'l China on tlw path toward joining tlw World Trad(' Organization. ThP accords \VO Ll I d dU aWit y W ith L h {' a 11 11 LI aI fig h t in Congn'ss ovnr granLing China normal trading status by making that status permanent. Organized labor. environmental groups and many DPmocrats in Congress oppose thP agrPenwnl as dangerous to U.S. workers. 
Four captives freed in Sudan 
U'\l!Tl:I) N.'\Tl()"iS 

l'ro-govcrnnwnt l1ghwrs rckased l'our peo­pll' Thursda~, who had bPnn held !'or a wPek in tlw soullwrn Sudan with thei1· U.'\/.-lcasc;d plane, the United Nations said. Three of the four -an American UNIC:Er stalfor and tvvo Kr,nyan pilots -wf;rc rtown from southern Sudan lo Lokirhokio. in northern Kenya. the base of C.N. humanitarian operations for Sudan. spokeswoman Marie Okabe said. The three. who wen; not idPnlili~,d. wern Pxhaust­ed and wen' bning nxami1wd by doctors. she said. Tlw l'ourth detai1we, a Suda1rns(, nation­al, was takPn to Malakai. about 100 miles norLlwast or Old Fangak in Upper :--.JilP Provine!' wh1ff1' Lh1,y were fn1cd. 
IWiiMMW?«tl 
Dow Al\tEx: 
892.99 

JONES -12.11 
'.'lasdnq:

-55.53 

4485.63 
I 
J22 Jf) 
NYSE 
614.4.3 -2.55 
s..~., soo: 
<'omf)ositt 1416.83 Volume:

10,643.63 
+5.12 1,047,?56,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 

CONPMJ TICKie •., Clift:N9£ •CHANGB PBJCI 
JICt W'ORLtlCOM IN WCOM ..,.3. 50 +1,8650 45.H DELL COMPOTEk DELl, . S. lO +3.2375 44.U 11.""lSCO SY$ffMS cscc •'i. 51 +7.127S 12 .16 MlCROSOF't CORP MSFT ?1.92 +2.0000 27.26 QRACU CORP OR-Clo +.L916 +2 .3?JS 22.H INTEL CORP INTC ..-2 .86 +2. 9950 21. 77 CYPRESS COMM w CYCll +20. 59 +3.5000 20. 60 C:VTOGliW CORP OYTO •BS. 71 +4.901'3 20.06 LOCH 1--LARIUS INC 00<:B -22, 00 -0,i.JaQO 10, 04 COMPAQ COMPll'T'til: CPQ -3 .12 -0.87~0 U,.S5 
orld 

C0I\JPJLEJ) FROM THE OBSEnVER WIRF. SERVICES page 5 
LEBANON 


Associated Press 

BEIRUT 
Israeli forces and guer­rillas r,ontinued their attacks Thursday as international monitors worked to curb the worst conflagration in southern Lebanon in eight months. 
In a rlear sign that the worsl mav be over, Israel confined its air and artillery bombardments to the fron't liirn of the zone it occupies in southern Lebanon. Earlier in the week Israeli airstrikes hit power stations in north, rentral and east 
Government makes plane tests mandatory 
Lebanon. 
Meanwhile, the United States arranged a Friday meeting of the international monitoring group that has tried to enforce rules of engagement in the conflict since 1996. The monitors comprise representatives of Israel. Lebanon, Svria, France and the U~ited States. 
U.S. State Department spokesman James P. Rubin said the agreement to meet was an "important develop­ment" that could help ease tension. 
Recent fighting has killed six Israeli soldiers and two allied Lebanese militiamen and wounded 15 Lebanese civilians. It has also seri­ously eroded the chance of resuming the Israeli-Syrian peace talks, which were suspended indefinitely last month. 
Israel demands that Syria, the main power bro­ker in Lebanon, rein in the Hezbollah guerrillas if it is serious about negotiating peace. 
"The pattern of talking and shooting is unaccept-
Alaska, which has 34 MD-80 series planes in its flePt, grounded two of the jetliners in Seattle and Portland. Ore., because metal shavings were found around the jackscrews ­which drive the planes' horizontal stabilizers and control the up-and-down direction of a planP,. 
Shavings indicate wear on a nut that travels along the screw. 
The horizontal stabilizHr, the jackscrew, nut. eleva­tors and other components that adjust the plane's up­and-down pitch have been the focus of the Flight 261 investigation. The pilots reported trouble with the able," Israeli Deputy Defense Minister Ephraim Sneh said Thursday. 

On Thursdav -the 12th consecutive· day of airstrikes -Israeli jets fired 20 missiles in eight raids against suspected guerrilla hideouts in Zillaya Valley, 12 miles north of the Israeli border, Lebanese security officials said. 
The strikes followed attacks by the Iranian­backed Hezbollah on Israeli troops and allied militia­men, the officials said. 
stabilizer and struggled to control the pla1rn for at least 30 minutes before it crashed into the Pacific on Jan. 31, killing all 88 peo• pie aboard. 
A 2-foot section of the jackscrew was recovered from the wreckage, and metal shavings found on it were determined to have come from the nut in the mechanism. It is unclear whether the damage was a possible cause or an effect of the crash, and the nut has not been recovered. 
NTSB investigators also announced the Navy had recovered additional pieces of wreckage from Flight 261. 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES 
The govPrnment is requiring airlines to inspect the tails of' MD-80 seri!'s jNliners and relatP-d planes J'or damage similar to what was discovered in the wreckage of Alaska flight 261 
About l,100 jets in thf' United Slates -all MD­80s. MD-90s, DC-9s and Boeing 717s -will b0-cov­ered by an order that was being drafted late Thursday by the federal Aviation Administration. The airlines will have two to three days to comply. 
Boeing had recommfmd­ed Wednesday that all 2,000 of tlrn planes world­wide be inspected, and all major U.S. airlines had already begun an inspec­tion process wlrnn the FA/\ decided to make it manda­torv. Alaska Airlines gr<Jundcd two planes Thursday after problems were found. 
Passengers should expect minor delays. the FAA said. 
"It's far more important that WI' get these airplanes inspected." said Tom Mcsweeny, the FAA's associate administrator for certificalion. "We want it done right, and we want it done thorough." 
. ; . 

. . 
'.' 
page 6 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February I 1, 2000 
Input 
continued from page 1 
in academic and campus lifo." 
"The idealistic answer to the 

positive role students play is that 
students have a perspective on 
ND that facu!Ly never have. 
They offer an essential point of 
view." said Elizabeth Eldon, 
assistant professor of biological 
sciences and mP-mher of the 
University committee on women 
and faculty and students. 
Eldon cited several reason why 

committees would benefit from 
student membership. Because 
students' population turns over 
quickly, this ,vould help deter­
mine if change was actually 
occurring, sh<' said. Also, stu­
dents would gain an understand­
ing of University governance, she 
added. 
Ilowever. Eldon caulioned that 

there may be negative effects. 
"In anv committee there has lo 

be a level of trust among mem­
bers and an acceptance of com­
mon ground rules," she said. 
''Faculty and students alike need to know whon a certain dis­cussion is confidential, and need to be able to trust that confiden­tiality will be maintained. Some faculty are uncomfortable dis­cussing sensitive confidential topics when students are present due to this lack of trust." 
Eldon also said that due to stu­dents' busy lives, they may not always be present at committee meetings. 
"Committees work best. though, when all members attend regularly and are pre­pared for each meeting. Good committees do real work on real issues. Students [or faculty] who attend erratically have a· nega­tive impact, since time is wasted 
bringing them up-to-date." with faculty and want to increase Huie also said that student student membership, actually 
attendance and other factors accomplishing their goal may be could result in a negative view of difficult. Micek said an increased their membership "if the wrong awareness of' student represen­student is put un ur elected to tative is essential. the committee. "Currently students are often 
"A student who doesn't show selected to sit on committees and up to the meetings all the time. student government 111wer even or whu isn't informed or educat­knows who they are." he said. ed about thP-issues that the com­"We want to work closely with mittee addrr.sses is not going to all student reprnsen tatives so help that committee." that we may keep our fingers on However, overall Huie and the pulse of the projects that am 
Eldon stressed student represen­being worked on." 
tation is essential. "Student Focht said that coopnrating membership on corrimittees is with administrators is essential important," Eldon said. in getting more studnnts on com­
''I've been interviewing for jobs mittees. lhis semester, and I am most "We would talk to administra­im pn•ssed by those places that tors regarding the benef'its of lmvc student representation on increased student memb(!rship," the search committee. It shows he said. "ThorPby increasing stu­
that they trust their students, dent influence, and wn would 
and  it  ii:.  ensuro that corn­ 
acknowl­ !Ii,  mittoe mombers  
edges  that  "It has. tmen our, U!t:Hwi  wenl inl.o meet­ 
the candi­date's ability to teach and interact with students is an important  experience that·~···,· committee members truly do care about what students have to say."  ings with the administration with clearly defined goals and a spiril of open and honest  
component  communication."  
of the hiring decision." H n i e  John Micek vice presidential candidate  O'Donoghun stated an aspect of the issue that  
agreed.  concerned  

"Student voices are essential in William Berry, professor of elec­honoring the commitment that trical engineering and member Notre Dame upholds ... without of the review panel committee them, staff and faculty too often for appeals concerning sexual have to speculate and assume. If discrimination. Berry said his committees do that, the initia­committee is one that does not tives and interventions that may need student representation. "I be put in place may not have the can only answer for this commit­potential or authenticity that tee lon whether or not students produces results. Simply stated, representation is necessary]. I without student input, staff and don't think student membership faculty most likely have failed to makes sense," he said. exhaust their resources when O'Donoghue agreed, saying making decisions." that while many committees 
Although the candidates agree would benefit fromstudent mem­borship, some may not and each committee should be viewed sep­arately. 
"We need to look at which committees need student mem­bers," he said. "For example, the first year of studies advisory committee already has student ropresentation and there is not much need for a student to be on the biohazard committee." 
Overall, candidates hope that their election would help increase the student voice on university committees. 

"It has been our experience that committee members truly do care about what students have to say," Micek said. "The only problem is that often times there are no students on these committees. We feel that stu­dents can make a difference and one of the best ways that they can is through creating profes­sional working relationship with other members of the commit­
tees." 
Notre Dame Film. Television and Theatre presents 

by William Shakespeare 
Sunday Matinee. February 20 ........... 2:30 pm Thursday February 24 .. 730 pm Wednesday February 23 .730 pm Friday. February 25 .7:JUpm Saturday. February 26. ......... . . . 730 pm 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats S16 • Seniors S14 • All Students S12 Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 
The residency ot Actors from rhe London Stage ,s sponsored in parr by :he Henkels lecture Series 

Fft;e--n._I.~y 

Arts and Letters Departments, Institutes, and Collective Resources* 
Presenters: 
Chris Fox, Dean, College of Arts and Letters 
:ii 
Patrick Geary, Director of Medieval Institute Robert Wegs, Director, N anovic Institute Katherine O'Brien--O'Keefe, Professor of English 
Discussion to Follow 
~<>II_dEa;y, F~b:r.-.Ea;.-y ~,~h 2I_O OOE, ~cI£~I1._I1._~ II~l_I_ 9:00,. ~=00 

*Based on the Provost's Task Force Committee Report on Arts and Letters Departments, Institutes, and Collective Resources. 
' ' ' 
Friday, February 11, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Hyden: Society hinders development 
Conference addresses 
"Those who feel to have a

. Speaker says 
mission for development areAfrican the commercial farmers," con­
trasting with rural farmers who

development 
"have lost confidence in the

slowed by 
government. which never poor relationships served them, became a corrupt ____________ institution at lhe expense of the 
Bv HENRI CAPIN GALLY 
SANTOS 
News Writer 
The difficulties in the Pco­nomic devolopmeut of African countries appear Lo be correlat­ed with tlrn deteriorating rela­tionships among the mnrnbcrs of' sodBty. according to Goran llydcn. Thn highly-rngardr.d African lecturer discussed the lurbul1mt social and economic scenario f'acP-d by Tanzania sinci\ t!rn 1960s. 
During tlrn l 960s tlw pride of' independence ran high among till\ peoplP, Tanzania faced a promising outlook. During tlrn l'ollowing two d,:cadns, however, corrupt lnadcrs usPd I.heir privilegPd position for tll<'ir own int1m!sts, llydcn said. P<:oµlt· of diffPrcnt social r.lassns react<~d in con­trasting fashions to tlw goVfirn­mPnt's abuse. 
farmer," said Hyden. 
The meltdown of trust among village farmers, or social capi­tal, presents a serious problem, according to Hyden, because cooperation among tlrn people fosters the healthy development ol' society. Tanzania's economic 

urban renewal
now that they were moving 
across a multiparty council," he said. When destroyed, social capi­tal may be difficult to rebuild. 
Hyden's ambiguous speecl1 and gloomy view of Tanzania's future sparked the critics in the audience. A spectator. who had lived in Mozambique during the 'I 960s. said that Hyden's view about the depiction of trust in African society was exaggerat­ed. Another audience member complained about the ambigu­ous definitions of the terms 
By JESSICA DAUES 
News Writer 
Poverty is a way of life in for many inner city residents. But rather than ignore the situa­tion, many are fighting for change. ­
The Notre Dame community will examine the role of faith and cooperation in urban renewal in a Feb. 13-15 con­
orientation has fluctuated between Marxism and capitalism. According to Hyden they now have "the worst of both systems." 
Hyden pro­

"VUlage farmers have lost confidence in the government. " 
Goran Hyden 
lecturer 
Green will Monday

~---.-N-T--E--R----E-S=--::T=-=E=-:D=-=-1-=N~-A-=-----became a corrupt institution at 
posed a very original solution tion while conducting his stud­
Elizando of . "The Church, 

although his outlook of ies during the '90s. 
t h e

Tanzania's future seemed pes­An ideological division on 
Archdiocese The Century'

simistic. development amongst different 
of San The City,"

"If there were to bn a social social groups seems to arise. 
Antonio. 4p.m.,Sunday

movement, it would come from Common farmers can be 
Notre Dame

wonrnn. In the 1995 election, thought of as "entrepreneurs," 
stud e n ts . "Passion for 

the women in the ruling party said Hyden. 
Angela Change,"

implanted a women's council, "Village farmers have lost 
Anderson

confidence in the government, 
12:50 p.m.,
and Nikolas

which never served them, it 
ference "Reconciliation andused by Renewal in the Cities: Faith­

Hyden. 
B a s c d

The speak­
Initiatives."

er answered 
will feature Conference

that Africa 
Harv a r d All events are inwas indeed a "high trust­

University's McKenna Father

ing" society, B r y a n auditorium and
but that he viewed a dif-
Hehir and open to Father

ferent situa­
y i r g i I i O the public. 
C A R E E R I N 

BOOK P U B LIS H I N G ? Anna Kosse. a graduate of the University of NotrE;! Dame and the University of Denver Publishing Institute and novv vvith SourceBooks. Inc.. vvill be on campus to speak vvith interested seniors and graduate students about the PUBLISHING INSTITUTE and job opportunities in the industry. 
Monday, Feb. 14 

One-on-one Conferences 
10:00-11 :30am in 
Armstrong Room 
(LaFortune) 
3:00-4:00pm Grand Hall 
O'Shaughnessy 
Information Session 
4:00-5:00pm in '1 '19 
O'Shaughnessy 
wwvv. du. ed u/pi 

the expense ol' the farmers. 
There is very little trust, it must 
be reestablished," said Hyden. 

All Show:-. Before 6 PM $..J.00 
s..i.1,0 S1udcn1-./C'hildrcn/Scnior-. 
$6.~II A<lult 
Sieren Surround Sound in all Thc1.11rc, 
Down to You PG•t.:3 ,:oo 3:10 5:20 7:40 10:00 
Eye of the Beholder A 
12:55 3;15 5:35 7:55 10:20 
Galaxy Ouest PG 
2:45 5:05 7•40 10:25 
Glrl Interrupted R 
7:25 10:0~ 
Next Friday R 
1 15 3:30 ~:45 8:00 10:15 
Scream 3 R 
1:30 4:10 7;05 9:55 2:20 5:00 7:50 10:25 Snow Day PG 1:10 3:25 SAO 7:55 10:10 
Stuart Little PG 
2:30 5:00 7:35 950 The Beach R 2:00 4:40 7:35 10:15 ,.he: Gteen Mile A 3:45 7:30 The Hurricane A 12:45 3:55 7:00 10:10 
The Talented Mr. Ripley R 
12.50 4:00 7.20 10:20 
The Tigger Movie G 
12·55 2:50 4:45 7:20 9:30 Toy Story 2 G 2:35 5:05 
tolllln fllllU ~IY ,OU~ OAY MW.Iller llCKI!' SAU$ ~AIIIIICAP <1ecm1su tNO PA$ll:S • no ~V!l!S 
Most presenters are con­nected with Catholic commu­nity leadership in cities including Chicago, Cleveland, Detroit, San Antonio and El Paso, Texas, he said. 
"Students at the University often do not get the opportuni­ty to hear and directly encounter creative leaders who are impacting communi­ties of need throughout the country,'' commented McNeill. 
McNeil! encourages students to attend the events, all free to the general public. "We tried to make it student friendly," he said. 
Students look forward to the experience. 
"We students all know that our large cities involve pover­ty and other challenges. I am interested to see what these presenters have done to address these issues with imagination and hope," said Erica Love, student of urban affairs. · 
The conference will begin 4 
p.m. Sunday with a discussion by Hehir of the Catholic Church in cities. Other high­lights include Elizondo, asso­ciate director of the University's new Institute for Latino Studies, who will speak 8 p.m. Monday about Latino faith-based initiatives. 
"Father Elizondo is a 
dynamic speaker and an 
expert on Latino pastoral con­
c1ffns," McNeill said. "He is 
also the founder of the MACC, 
Mexican American Cultural 
Center, a national center for 
training and leadership devel­
opment for those working in 
Latino communities." 
In addition, Notre Dame stu­
dents Angela Anderson and 
Nikolas Green will speak 
about their experiences in 
faith-based initiatives over the 
past summer. 
"We hope the speakers will 
spark the students' imagina­
tions and desire to visit faith­
based initiatives like these in 
their community or in experi­
ential learning opportunities 
provided by the CSC." 
The conference is part of the millennial series "Building the Civilization of Love: Imagining the Third Millennium." spon­sored by the theology depart­ment. 
also be . "Latino Faith­spcaking. 
Based Initiatives: 
'•Faith­based ini­Hope and tiatives is a 
Imagination,"
broad term for groups 8 p.m., Monday 
and com-. "Attacking munities 
Poverty in aCivil
which con­nect their Society," 9:30 involvement 
in social a.m, Tuesday 
analysis, action and justice in response to challenges such as lack of housing, education, economic development, hnalth care, et cetera," said Father Don McNeill, executive director of the Center for Social Concerns. 
The 10 difforcnt sessions of speakers will address urban situations where creative leadership and unity impact the local community. "At the conference, students would see a broad spectrum of faith­based initiatives in six differ­ent sessions on Monday and Tuesday," said McNeil!. 


-Domus Properties has two, five, and seven bedroom houses available -Student neighborhoods close to 
campus ~Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 2000/2001 school year BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY 3 HOUSES LEFT 
Contact Kramer (219)274-1501 or (219)234-2436 or (219)674-2572 
HOMES FOR RENT 
juniors! 
So close to JPW.... Don't forget to pick up your tickets! 
FEBRUARY 15th and 16th 
Corby Room 
_p~gtuJent e~ 
7:00-1 0:00pm, 
The collection for the JPW mass will be taken at pick-up. A $2 
donation is suggested. The collection will go to the local charity 
There Are Children Here 

JPWJP\V JPW JPWJPW JPWJPW JPWJPW JPW JP 
JPW JPW JPW JPWJPW JPW JPW JPW JPWJPW JP\ 
......... ~--.._...----· -...........----------·------------------~---~ ---------..,..-------r---. 
I I t I ) ' · a • . ' . 
page 8 The Observer . NEWS Friday, l;cbruary 11, 2000 
was uo room in I.he middle. by consulting many others. I 
CORRECTIONS 

Now there is much more of a know this is not what techni­
Senate 

variety on what we can do." cally should have been done, 
. In yesterday's election pullout, Joe Shepherd was incorrectly
continued from page I Off campus senator Pat l•oy and I apologize for that. 13ut 
identified as the 2-year president of the class of 2001. Shepherd was
----~--------urged the senate to look at the issuP is not thP ethics of' 
O'Donnell also stressed that the Judir.ial Council's punish­ment was handed out against the rules of the constitution. The committee formPd to decide the punishment did not mr~ct the constitution quo­tas. and thus their punish­ment was "null and void," O'Donnt>ll said. However, the senate did agree that a viola­tion did occur and they should review tht> situation. 
l:lefore debate began, Senator O'Donughue left tlrn f1oor. "I am removing rnysPlf' from the debate for obvious reasons," he said. "However, I want evC'rVotlf' to know that this appeal did not come from us. It r.ame from outside our campaign." 
Overall. the senators want· ed to finalize the decision. "Rules are rules," said Fisher senator Philip Dittmar. "\,Ve decided that last night. For now lel"s make a decision and mDve on." 
Knutt senator Ed Foy added, "Let's get this over with now.·· 
Some senators WPn' upset the decision was recom,id­ered. 
"We made a decision." said Zahm senator Ryan Becker. "Now to go back 24 hours later and hear this again ... we have to support the Judicial Committee and go with our original ruling." 
Candice Marcum, Welsh Family Hall senator argued otherwise. "[Wednesday] night it came down to two decisions -either extreme left or right," she said. "There the situation objectively. "Do what is right," he said. "Last night, tht' decision didn't work out for several reasons. We made a mistake, but that doesn't mean we have to make another mistake tonight. The punishment must match the crime." 

Hridget Tomes from Cavanaugh disagreed. 
"I do not think we made a mistake last night," she said. "I do not think that the smrntri is a supreme body. It was the job of the J u di c i a I my decision. Please leave the ethics out of this." 
After debate, the amend­menl was brought to the Jloor and with 16 of 22 votes. it passed. 
"l think with 1h1i ruling we made !Wednesday! night we were going to deal with many apathetic voters," said Walsh sPnator Kate McCarthy. "Not only apathetic, but we would have confused apathetic vot­ers. By the amendm,rnt tonight, we decreased 1.he confusion a n d 
Council "I want everyone to know ,dlowed and I think voters to
that this appeal did not 
tho punish­receive the 
m e n t come/,;om us... most infor­s h o u I d ,nu ··: mation 
,.. .. ·p ossi hie.
stand." Brian O'Donoghuen,,b 01 
A f t e r The voters
presidential candidate
d c b a t e now have 
c n d e d , 

O'Donnell restal1c'd that the Judicial Council tlid not follow tlH1 rules nf tlrn constitution and thus an amendment should be made on the punishment. 
"I want to reiterate what Pat I Foy] said: Do what's just. Do what's right," O'Donnell said. "I don't think the Judicial Council made the right decision and the consti­tution was not followed. The punishment should stand at a one day suspension." 
Kelly Folks. Judicial Council President, was apologetic for the mistake, but stood behind her original punishment. "I did not make this decision by myself," she said. "I made it 
... ,,. 

the choice 
to make 
the most inl'ormcd, best decision." Pat Foy agrned. "The senate thought a can­
didate going on a WVFI broadcast that. reaches maybe three people ... did not warrant a two day suspen­sion," he said. "We thought one day was more appropri­ate for the violation." 
Overall, O'Donogbuc's out­look was positive. 
"We're happy !with the amendment], no doubt ­especially because the appeal came from outside our cam­paign," he said. "It's been a trial but we never lost faith. We're going to continue on to make this University better." 
2-year president of his high school class. 
. 
In yesterday's eleciton pullout, a quote attributed to Greg Smith should have been attributed to Brian Clemency. 

. 
Clemency is a pre-professional/economics major, not a govern­ment major. 

. 
Laura Petelle assisted with interviews and profiles for the election pullout. 


The Observer regrets the errors. 


Saturdayl February 12 Sunday, February 13 Monday, February 14 Tuesday, February 15 Wednesday, February 16 Thursday, February 17 


Bharati Mukherjee will read in the Library Auditorium at 8:00 p.m. All others will read in Washington Hall at 8:00 p.m. 
Bharati Mukherjee February 13 11 :00 am Li-Young Lee February 15 10:00 am. Andrew Hudgins February 17 10:00 am 
Bharati Mukherjee 
William Kennedy Li~Young Lee Student Readers 
Andrew Hudgins John Edgar Wideman 

.. I ' 
'
. ' .. 


FriJay, felmiary 11. 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
House passes Diarriage tax cut 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 

Dispatching an p!f•ction-year valentine. Hepublicans won llowrn passage Thursday of leg­islation that would rut income laxes $182 billion over 10 yf"ars !'or all 
married la.xpayers. including the 25 mil­lion couples who pay a "marriage penalty" <·omparPd 


with singl<> Clinton pPoplc. 
The vote. timed lo coincide with Valentine's Day next week, was 268-158 to send the bill to the Senate. Although 48 Democrats joined all Republicans in favor, it was short ol' a v,~lo-proof' edge. 
Senaw passagn is far from certain and President Clinton is lhreatt\ning a vow over lh1\ bil­l's (:ost and liming, y(1t llousP c;op lead!'i'S trumpetrd the nrnasu rP as L!w nrst in a series of tax cuts that would return ·a portion of projected budget surpluses to taxpayers and limit tlrn growth of govP.rnnrnnt. 
"We nncd a tax code that doesn'l punish married cou­ples." said House Speaker Dennis llastcrL. 11-Ill. "They need to buy braces for the kids. They nm~d to buy insurance for 
the car and the home. They 
don't need the fpderal govern­
ment picking their pocket.'' 
It was a day for politicians of every stripe to ally themselves with the popular issue. even if they opposed this particular bill. Df"spite his veto warning, Clinton said al a Capitol Hill app!iarancc. ··we know we should do this." Howrwer, he wants marriage penalty tax relief targeted more toward lower-and middle-class tax­pay1:rs. 
"We are united in saying. "Let's do it nmv, "' Clinton told a Democratic rally. 
The "marriage penalty" occurs ber.ause millions of cou­ples who me joint tax returns are forced to pay taxes at high­er rates than they would if they WI\J"n single and filing separate­ly, especially if each spouse earns roughly the same incomr. The penalty strikes must frequently at income lev­rls between $20,000 and $75,000 and costs couples an average of $1,400 a year, according to congressional esti­mates. 


The GOP bill would cut taxes for th use couples as well as millions of others who already get a marriage "bonus," mainly those in which one spouse earns the lion ·s share of family income. It would gradually expand the bottom 15 percent tax bracket to apply to more of a married couple's income, boost the standard deduction in 2001 for marriod filers to twice that of singles and raise the income cap to allow more lower-income couples to claim the earned income tax credit. 
About 50 million married couples filed joint income tax returns in 1997, the most recent year complete statistics are available from the lnternal Revenue Service. 
Democrats complained that half of the bill's total tax cut would go to couples who alreadv receivf> a bonus and would consume a large chunk of the projected budget surplus before plans are laid to ensure the future solvency of Social Security and Mecidare, to pay down the national debt and to guarantee adequate govern­ment spending. 
"The Republicans want to have a political gimmick for Valentine's Day," said Hep. Charles Rangel, D-N.Y. "If they just want a political issue, they've got it." 
Democrats also said two­thirds of the tax cuts would go to couples earning more than $75,000 a year once it is fully phased in by 2008, and would entangle some of them in the complex alternative minimum 
tax. 
NEED CASH? 
NEW DONORS EARN $20 TODAY 
MENTION THIS AD FOR A $5.00 BONUS 
Up to $1 45.00 a month in 2-4 hours a week 
SERA CARE PLASMA 

234-6010 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST 
Affirmative action 
ban denounced 
Associa red Press 
TALLAHASSEE. Fla. 
Black college students and hundreds of other critics of Gov. Jeb Bush's plan to get rld of affirmative action packfld Capitol hearing rooms Thursday to denounce the effort as an attack on women and minorities. 
Bush did not attend the third and final set of hearings on his "One Florida" propos­al, which would eliminate race and gender as factors in university admissions and the awarding of state contracts. He watched some of the hearings on closed-circuit television in his office. 
"The One Florida plan will not work,'' said Anthony Viegbesie, president of the Tallahassef" branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. ''The One Florida 

plan is anti­"/fthe government in this 
two black
min or it y, 

state doesn't protect us lawmakers
anti-women. 
staged a

from the good-old-boy 
anti-poverty 
25-hour sit­

and must be system, who does?" 
in inside Lt.
killed." 
Gov. Frank
T h e 

Brenda Holt Brogan's
Republican 
office,

governor bas high school teacher 
insisted the plan would improve diversity in education and contracting jobs by increas­ing outreach efforts to minorities historically shut out of opportunities. 
Bush spokesman Justin Sayfie said after the meeting that Bush still wants quick approval on key parts of the plan. 
"The governor is committed to moving ahead with the One Florida plan," Sayfie said. Delay "would mean African­American high school seniors would lose an opportunity to attend the State University System." 
Students who take a diffi­cult enough course load and finish in the top 20 percent of their high school graduating class would be guaranteed admission to some state uni­


Francesco's Welcomes all Valentines on Valentine's Day! 
SPECIALIZING IN ITALIAN CUISINE 
Southern Italian Cooking at Its Finest  ~  
,'.;)~  Prepared by r:rancesco and Family  ~~  
~  An Authentic Taste of Italy  ~  

Most Romantic Place in South Bend and Mishawaka 
Welcome Junior Parents! 
Hours: Mon.-Thnrs 4:00-10:00 p.m. Fri.&Sat. 4:00-11:00 p.m. Sun. 4:30-7:00 p.m. 
, I I 

vcrsitios under the proposal. 
"The athletes that are needed to win football games will be included in that 20 percent whether they have the grades or not," said Brenda Holt. a high school teacher in Quincy. "If the government in this state docs not protect us from the good­old-boy system. then who does?" 
The legislators hearing tes­timony were split into two groups to accommodate the crowd. About 1,200 people attended. and 100 spoke. Each speaker was limited to three minutes. 
"I think the governor has his heart in the right place, but has been misguided in his approach so far," said Kelvin Lawrence, a sophomore at predominantly black Florida A&M University. 
For weeks, leaders in Florida's black community have protested against the plan. In January, 
demanding 
that Bush 
rescind his 

execu live order to put One Florida in place. 
Bush refused, but he agreed to three public hear­ings on the plan. The previ­ous two, in Tampa and Miami, also were dominated by critics. 
Then this week, while 1,000 students protested in the Capitol rotunda, Bush met with four students from Florida A&M and agreed to add a three-year "account­ability measure" to make sure enough minorities are admitted into state universi­ties. 
Brogan said Thursday the plan would increase opportu­nities for minorities and streamline the application process for state business. 
1213 Li11col1111my West Mislwwaku (Fr-1111<'t?sco 11·as ch,,(11 t Nl) for .W yPr11·.s) 
.. 
! ' .. 

page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, February I I, 2000 
RECONCILIATION & RENEWAL IN THE CITIES: FAITH-BASED INITIATIVES 
A CLASSROOM-CONNECTED CONFERENCE AT THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
FEBRUARY 13-15, 2000 
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 13 
11:45 AM 
4-5:30 PM 7:30-8:45 PM 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14 
10:40-11:30 AM 
11:45 AM-12:35 PM 12:50 -1:40 PM 
4:30-5:30 PM 
8-9:15 PM 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15 
930-10:45 AM 2-3:15 PM 3:30-4:45 PM 

ALL CONFERENCE SESSIONS ARE HELD IN 
McKENNA HALL 
CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 
MOST REV. DALE MELCZEK, DIOCESE OF GARY, INDIANA 
HOMILIST, BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
REV. J. BRYAN HEHIR, SJ, HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
"THE CHURCH, THE CENTURY, THE CITY" 
"LIVING IN THE CITY TODAY: CHALLENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES" 
SR. DONNA CIANGIO, OP, NATIONAL PASTORAL LIFE CENTER, NEW YORK MR. LEONARD CALABRESE, DIOCESE OF CLEVELAND NIKOLAS GREEN, '01 AND ANGELA ANDERSON, '00, UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
CLASSROOM-CONNECTED SESSIONS 
TEODORA TRUJILLO, CO-CHAIR OF EPISO, EL PASO 
"RENEWAL IN THE NATION'S LARGEST BORDER COMMUNITY" 
REV. CHARLES DAHM, OP 
"RESURRECTION IN A MEXICAN NEIGHBORHOOD IN CHICAGO" 
ELEANOR JOSAITIS, FOCUS HOPE, DETROIT 
"PASSION FOR CHANGE" 
DR. MONIKA HELLWIG, ASSOCIATION OF CATHOLIC COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES 
"CURRICULAR CHALLENGES FOR RECONCILIATION AND RENEWAL" 
REV. VIRGILIO ELIZONDO, ARCHDIOCESE OF SAN ANTONIO 
"LATINO FAITH-BASED INITIATIVE: HOPE AND IMAGINATION" 
CLASSROOM-CONNECTED SESSIONS 
MSGR. WILLIAM LINDER, NEW COMMUNITY CORPORATION, NEWARK 
"ATTACKING POVERTY IN A CIVIL SOCIETY" 
REV. MICHAEL IVERS 
"THE CALL TO BE CHURCH AFTER CHURCH IN THE AFRICAN-AMERICAN COMMUNITY" 
LEN CALABRESE, DIOCESE OF CLEVELAND 
"FROM SAFETY NET TO SPRINGBOARD: THE CHURCH AS ECONOMIC ACTOR" 
ALL EVENTS ARE FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC. 
CO-SPONSORED BY: THE COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION, THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS, AND THE CENTER FOR PASTORAL LITURGY, WITH SPECIAL THANK5 TO THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LITTERS AND THE PROVOST'S OFFICE. 
. '' 

,
' ' 

------· ---------. ----­
~-___......-------:-_...., 
•• J ,. • ' ' '\ 
Friday, February l l, 2000 The Obseruer . ELECTION NEWS page 11 
Forbes drops out of GOP race 
A<sociate<l Press 
WASIIINGTON 

Ending his "swim against the tidc·s," publisher Sle\'n Forbes pulled out of tho Hepublicun prnsidcntinl race today aftnr spciHling p!HSOll a 1 millions on his sm:ond q,wst l'or the 11omi­
nation. 
.. \,\' p 
have cre­
ated a rww 
{'OllSPrva-Livr: agcuda," Forlws told suµ­portnrs, claiming influnncc• in making thn µarty tak(' his ideas Sl'riously. 
"l lrnvP no rpgnits. and you shouldn't either." 
Forb1,s PXilud in Was hi ngt on. tht> p I acP Ii c~ railed against in two cam­paigns for llw timidity of its tax ruttPrs and tlw clout of' its spm:ial intt•rt\St lobbyists. 
Champion ol' a flat inconrn tax and a cons1n-valivP voice on abortion, Forbes struggled to get his voice heard in a campaign dominaL11d f'rnm the start by 'foxas Gov. George W. Bush. with John McCain corn­ing on strong after a New flampshirP victory. 
"We w11r<1 nosed out by a landslide," Forbes said dryly. 
llis departurP lrigg,irnd a scrambll' among tlw n~main­ing contPnd1•1·s fo1· his anti­abortion. anti-tax supportors on tlw consPrvativ11 right. and also S<!l tlw stag<' l'or a L'wo­way battlP lwtwe1)n Bush and McCain, though former get to do it," l<orbes said. He Ambassador Alan Keyes is still dnclined to say whether he in the race. would run for the presidency 


llcclining to immediately again or some other office, but cnclorso another candidate. said, "I will participate in the Forbes said on CBS' "The public ~quare one way or Earlv Show" this morning that another. his t:ampaigns in 1996 and Forbes left the presidential this year "changed the politi­race today in the company of a cal landscape" and tlwir cost select. few who spent millions -more than $66 millio11 -of their personal fortunes on was mo1rny well spent. back-to-back political cam­
"When vou add it up, it's a paigns that onded in defeat. f'ornddahl;i sum, Lut it v,ill get Like B.el'orm Party founder you a handful of ads in tlrn lloss Perot and Californian Super Bowl." he said. "I think Michael Hul'fing:ton before we havti changed the dia­him, Forbes helped set the logue." standard for sparing no Forbes cited his focus on expense on a political dream. ov1irhauli11g thl! im;ome tax lie spent an averuge of $160 systf)m, ending abortion, giv­per vote to finish serond in an ing parents more control over Iowa straw poll in August. 
schools, and allow­ing 1woµle 

"This was afantastic 
to control 

phenumerwl experience.
tlrnir Social Security seeing America, teaming savings.. Ile 
about America in a way
said his llat 

few people get to do it."
tax propos­a I J'orced candidates 

Steve Forbes 
Bush and 

former presidential candidate
Md:ain lo release their own 

although-110 delegates were at stake and anvone could ·vote for the price of' a ticht. 
He spent more than $3 million a month in the last thrne 
months  of  
1999  in  
advance  of  

tax-cut plans. the Iowa caucuses, where he 
Forbes won the Delaware finished a strong second, and primary in 1996 but decided the New Hampshire primary, to get out of the race this year where he came in a poor after placing third in that state third. on Tuesday, behind Bush and "Never has so much been even McCain. who didn't cam­sp1mt with so little in return." paign at all in Delaware. said Larry Makinson, execu­
"This was a fantastic phe­tive director of the Center for nomenal experience. seeing RP-sponsive Politics, a research /\nrnrica. learning about group that studies money and AmP-rica in a way few people campaigns. 
Bradley criticizes 
Gore on gun control 
"His position changed to 
Associated Prcs8 

match the changing times," Lehane said, noting the prolif­
LOS A,'\JGELES eration of gun violence in the

Bill Bradley, standing 

past decade. "The public looksThursday with parents of chil­for leaders who respond to thedren killed by guns, accused Al changing times."
Gore of coming late and ending Gore was campaigning in Los up weak on 


Angeles Thursday. too. pro­
the emo­

moting his health care propos­tional issue al at a hospital. In a striking
of gun con­

counterpoint. his motorcade
trol. 

was held up temporarilyFraming 
because of a shooting at a fasthis contrast 
food restaurant nearby.
in unusual­Speaking to youngsters at El

ly barbed 

Sereno Middle School -par­
terms, 
B r a d I e y Bradley said: "This is not an issue that I came to 
after seeing television pictures of Columbine. This is an issue that I believed as a matter of fundamental principle through­out my public life." 
"I have always supported common-sense gun control. Al Gore bas not always done that," Bradley said. 
The Gore campaign coun­tered that Bradley was trying to manufacture differences where none exist. 
"Vice President Gore has been a strong advocate for gun safety laws." said Nathan Barankin, a spokesman for California Attorney General Bill Lockyer, co-chair of Gore's California campaign. 
But spokesman Chris Lehane acknowledged that Gore's rer.ord in Congress bears little resemblance to his gun-control stance of today. 

ents of' youngsters who were 
killed standing with him ­
Bradley said Gore voted against a 1990 bill to expand a federal ban on assault weapons and only wants to register new handguns while ignoring an estimated 60 million current weapons. 
Bradley said he wants to license and register all hand­guns but Gore has dismissed the plan as too difficult. 
"The essence of leadership is to take on that which is consid­ered too hard to do and make it happen. That's what leaders do as opposed to politicians," Bradley said. 
In addition to national regis­tration of handguns, Bradley's plan calls for banning gun dealers from residential neigh­borhoods, limiting the number of guns a person can buy each year, banning small, cheap "Saturday night specials" and ordering background checks for purchases at gun shows. 

"The unusual instrumentation 
is a visual and aural delight for audiences, and the repertoire, rich with original material emphasizing 
rhythmic modeSanddance beats, 
creates an upbeat,joyous ambience." 


\ 

STEEL DRUM BAND this S t rd y February 12 
2-4 m 



www.nd.edu/~sub 
I ' • I I 
VIEWPOINT 


page 12 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Noue Dame, I cl •i6556 
02.4 South Diniitig Halt. Norre Dam~. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Rya11  D,\Vid Rogno  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Petdlc  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gsughen SPORH EDITOR: Brian K~ssler 

ScFNF EDITOR: Michad Yaneg;is SAJNT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gilbpic PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lm7 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Brcr Hudac SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michad Revers WfB ADMINISI1lATOR: Erik Kushro 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lme GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO.............631-7471 
FAX............................................................. 63 l-6927 
A!WERTISING..................................631-6900/8840 
obse1;,er@d.1rwi11.cc.11d.cdu EDITOR IN CHJF.f........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/Assr. ME...................631-4541 BUSlNESS OFFICE........................................631-53 l 3 NEWS.........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 

VIEWl'OINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoim. l@nd.edu SroRTS................................. ,...................... 631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE........................................................631-4 540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S............................................631-4314 
observer.smc. I@nd.edu PHOTO................... ................. 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visir our Web site at http://observer.11d.edu for daily updates of campus news, sports. features and opinion columns. a.s well as canoo11s, reviews and breaking news from the Associared Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-co-,he movies/music for 
minute forec.1srs weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe· and rates of print ads 
cia.l cam pus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer articles published alter 
to meet the editors and August I 999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent. daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame drt Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrem. including advercisemems. is not governed by policies of tne administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the rignt to refuse advertisements based on contenc. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represem the opinion of the majorit:y ofthe Editor in Chiet: /\!anaging Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and depamnenc editors. Commentaries. leners and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of ,ill opinions through letters is encouraged. LeHers to rhe Editor must he signed :md musr include contact informa1jon. 
Qurstiom reg,1rdi11g Oh,eroer policies should be dirm­ed to &!ltor in Chief Michelle Kmpfl. 
O
Tli[BSERVER Friday, February I I, 2000 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Prisoners deserve the vote 
EVANSTON, !II. 

"Our best teacher is history." said Eugene l'encham, Chicago ci,il rights attorney a.nd judge. 
The roots of apartheid in South Africa can probably be traced to the Dutch invasion, when the Europeans' superior weapons and technology overwhelmed the area's native inhabitants. Manu Bhardwaj 
For the next 300 years, blacks in South Africa slowly won back their inalir.nabln rights from their oppressors. They won 
Daily

back the right to give their children some 
Northwestern

semblance of' an pducation. They won buck the right to buy and drive caws. They won back the right to work in dpcent, upper-level jobs. In fact, by 1494, they had won back all of their rights --except one. 
You can often judge a commodity's value by the extent that those who have it don't want Lo give it to those who don't have it. Six years ago, blacks in South Africa finally won the most important right of alL the right to vote. 
Eugene Pcncham said to a curious audience Monday, "What did South Africa's blacks do finally when they got the right to vote'? Why, they elected an ex-convict who had been in prison for 27 yAars!" 
That's right. They elect(~d N<!lson Mandela. 
Now, stay with me for a minute. 
America contains only 5 percent of the world's population, but houses 25 percent of its prisoners. I can't help but won­der how many prisoners in Lhe United Statfls are like Mandela. That is, how many are unfairly incarcerated? 
Ask yourself this simple question: If 13 men have been released from Illinois' Death How, three of whom were freed based on nnw evidence found by Protess and Northwestern journalism students, is it really unreasonable to assume that thflre are hundreds of Illinois prisoners serving regular jail sentences who also are innocent? 
Yet given the possibility that our justice system is incapable of proving true guilt or innocence, there still are no candi­dates for public office paying attention to the plight of prison­ers who are serving jail timfls for crimes they did not commit. 
Why'? 

Because, just like Mandela, nonfl of our prisoners has the righl to vote. That's right. Despite the fact that the 15th Amendment says "the right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be dflnied or abridged by the United States," we are consistently denying U.S. prisoners the right to vote in all 
U.S. elections. 

I am not arguing that pP-ople who kill and rob other people don't deserve to go to jail. What I am saying is that people in jail deserve to vote, for two reasons: 
1) Innocent people are serving time in jail for crimes they did not commit. The only way politicians will start paying attention to them is if they arc given back the right to vote. 
2) Even though U.S. citizens who kill and rob other p!lople deserve to go to jail, all citizens still deserve the right to vote in America. 
Although giving the vote to innocent people in jail won't diang,~ the justice system overnight, it. will give those inno­cent people a voice and a means to try to change the system. 
This column first appeared in the Daily Northwestern at Northwestern University. It is reprinted here courtesy ofthe 
U-W!RE. 

The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Give thanks for all the goodness 
I am so thankful I am not 11 Viewpoint  I am thankful for the dining hall  I am thankful for my own beliefs  
editor; it would be depressing to read  ladies, who let me eat the day I forgot  about God, my life, my religion, my body  
tlrn millions of complaints people have  my ID, who always have a hello and a  and my own sexual choices.  
about a school I happen to love.  smile, and who willingly clean up aftp,r  I am thankful for the Irish Guard, the  
I am thankful for this school, and the  me when I accidentally leave my  chants at basketball games, for Mike  


fact that if there is any 
Brown, for our school spirit and for aspect that I am unhap­
all other Notre Dame traditions. ppy with, l can always 
I am thankful for all of the people either join or start a 
that I don't have room to mention group to actively 
here, from my professors and improve it. And, if I 
roommates to the stir-fry chef who cannot improve it, I am 
washes out the wok before steam­thankful that I do have 
ing my vegetables. the free will to quit I am thankful for our sports complaining and trans­teams ... all of them. They are OUR fer to another school. teams, OUR classmates and OUH 
I am thankful for you, frinnds, whether they win, lose OR the many people (who I don't even Observer on the table. get arrested. know! who did help me up when I fell 1am thankful for all of the service 1am thankful for bun runs, joke bal­carrying my books in God Quad, who opportunities available here, and for all lots (vote for the Horney-Priest ticket in offered to carry my backpack and held of the students who participate in them. '01 !), dining hall riots, and everything doors for me the time I was on crutches, (Do a Summer Service Pro_ject in else that makes this school a little more and who offered to lift my car out of the Philadelphia if you get the chance ... fun. ditch and over the cement block it was you'll be thankful too!) l am thankful that I do not have to stuck on during that of awful day my I am thankful for the ability to take rely on negative, scarcastic comments freshman year. advantage of the free food, free tee­alone for humor. (Bring on the penis 
l am thankful for the snowangels, shirts, free massages and free enter­jokes!!) snowmen and snowball lights that I tainment offered by SUB, and even for I am thankful I am not bitter, com­happen to see around campus, and for those events that do cost a little money. plaining about every little detail about my cozy dorm room with its own And I am also thankful that ii' an event this school. adjustable thermostat. And, after ()xpe­doesn't interest me, then I am in no way But most of all, I am thankful I am not riencing the alternative, I am even more forced to attend. a Viewpoint editor! thankful for the summer. I am thankful for the Debartolo clocks 
I am thankful that I have a car, access that run a little slow, and for the fact Angie Rausch to a parking loL for only $75, and for all that if l ever did need to know the time Junior or the groundskeepers I 1)0 see around on my way to class, that at least 98 per­l'asquerilla West trying to keep up with the snow as best cent of the student body regularly wears February 8, 2000 as they can. watches. 
DILBERT 
I'M STR.E55EO OUT ABOUT WORK. MAYBE 
I'D FEEL BETTER If 
VERBALLY ABUSED A CO-WORKER. 
SCOTT ADAMS 

'{OU WOR'T\.\\...ESS ?lECE Of 
MONK£."( S~tT J 
\\\ 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Women ought to have representatives, instead ofbeing arbitrarily governed without any direct share allowed them in the deliberations ofgovernment." 
Mary Wollstonecraft revolutionary 
\' 'I 


• I 
VIEWPOINT 


Friday, February I l, 2000 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Adios, Wadsworth 
HegardingWadsworth's tiring, I say "HURRAY1" and so do many of my Charlotle Club fellow alums. Despite his many accomplismcnts for the Title IX sports, and the overall Big East nicord. hn was a total 11op in Lhf' two sports which RRALLY matter -varsity l'ootball and men's basketball. Both teams hav1~ hm:omr. an ND nmbarassmcnt, to say nothing of the Dunbar and Jim '.Vloore liascrws, so much so that Monk had to stnp in and pnrsonally start cleaning up the poop that Mike left all ovN campus' 
l!nro's hopini Monk has the guts to f1nish his rehab job, fires that Faustian-fool Bob Davie and hires a REAL football coach hcf'ori~ the football program goes brain-dead! 
Peter W. Murray, '64 N111rc Oame Parent, "R9 and '9, February 9, 2 000 

Don't steal from Debartolo 
O,w or the most frequent complaints I hear around cam­pus is that p<•ople feel ttiny have more ruins here at school than tlrny do at honw, and it seems as if we are constantly babysat by the administration. WPII. I am now gPtling a rlear undPrstanding of why sonrn of llwsl' things 1Hrnd lo takn place. BPl'orn I PX plain, I pose this question to you. would you tw!'r ent<:r a l"rie11d.s hunw and rip down a family portrait that they have on the wall') 
In my four ymLrs hen!, I have st1{m manv traditions ruined bncausP (;f' tlw irrtisponsibility ol" students. such as the ticket carnpouL Well. my follow stu­dm1ts. we arP nov,· in foar or losing one morn privilege. l.ast Saturday night during the SUB movit• at DeBartolo. tlw por­trait of tlw donor of the build­ing was ripped olT or the wall. Now this act may have semned runny at the Limn, but it has put the SlJB movies under some serious heat and we nnw havii to live in fear of any other incidents being the reason that movies am canc1elled fornver. This is disappointing, especial­ly since student affairs recently allowed us to start showing movies in Dd~artolo 101 and SUB lrnsjust purchased rww !Pnses for the projectors so that th,~ picturn takes up tlrn whole semen. Both of thesn things are for the benefit of the 1000 students that watch SUB movios on a weeklv basis. 
Ideally, I would like to sne the rnlurn of Edward DeBartolo to tlw wall of his building. 
llownvnr. mor•~ importantly. l nm ri•quosling that (;verybody wlio attends SUB movies in the l'uturP show some responsibili­ty. 
Pltiase, realizH that one stu­pid arlion may semn insignifi­cant. yet it will directly affect the entire student body of today and tho future. I don't want to havn to him a security guard lo sit outside the movie's and creale one more situation whore intelligenl. young adults am babysat. 

~~~
f\., 

\ \ 
'1 
' if• 
. JI' 
d 
:! . l 
\ 
V 

OBSERVER page 13 
O'Donoghue/Norton's vision untarnished 
This letter is about the character of our friend Brian O'Donoghue. Many of you know him as "Odie." To others, he is just a figure that appears on the cover of The Observer on Thursdays with a summary of tbe previous night's Student Senate meeting. To those who have had any con­tact with him, there is no doubt that he is one of a kind. He has the uncanny ability to seem like the most insane person you've ever met, but in the next instant, he l:al!J .~ay the perfect thing to lift your spirit in a time of crisis. 
If you ask him what he wants to do with his life, without hesitation, he'll respond, "To save the world." And the crazy thing is that he's seri.­ous. The first time we heard this we almost laughed, but the look in his eye wouldn't let us dismiss it Look at what he wants to do as President, and it's clear that he's a dreamer. He has set his sights on enabling the students of Notre Dame to do great things. It has been obvi­ous that Odie has been working for this goal since he set foot on this campus at Freshman Orinntation in 1997, evim to tho oxtcnt of passing up time abroad in order to serve the community in the Student Union. 
The past few weeks have seen the escalation of Odie's vision. Unfortunately, one wrong step may hamper his chance of achieving this goal. While campaigning officially started Tuesday, candi­dates were interviewed by campus publications on Saturday. Believing this exception covered all campus media, Brian and running mate Brooke Norton accepted an offer to appear on campus internet radio WVPI with Jabari Holloway. 
On Sunday, Odie was casually asked if such interviews were allowed since campaigns started on Tuesday. To be certain. Brian made a more official inquiry, and to his dismay round that his radio appearance was, in fact, prohibited. Brian turned himself in at once, and received a two day suspension of campaign activities, which he in turn appealed to the Senate. 
It's become far too commonplace for politi­cians, and people in general, to cover up their mistakes. However, as soon as he realized he might have committed an infraction, Odie sought to turn himself in. This is honorable trait is one of the qualities that we claim as one of Notre Dame's founding principles. Apparently, Brian's colleagues in the Senate agreed with him as they unanimously agreed that while he had made a mistake, the punishment was too severe. In response to the Senate's decision, Student Activities, an administrative group, determined that the Senate had no right to overturn the penalty. 
This letter is not meant as an endorsement of any candidate for Student Body President, but as a sign of support for our senator and friend, Brian O'Donoghue. 
Christopher B. Anderson Christopher D. Clement Keough Hall Presidents February I0, 2000 

I 
Awareness ofsocial irresponsibility ofRepublicans should be raised 
In his Inside Column from Tuesday, Dustin Ferrell is quite right in claiming that Democrats have their individual failings, and he also cor­rectly points out that some Democrats do not hold positions of highest virtue on every issue. But one could claim that of anv human, for we all fall short of perfection. Does human imperfection mean that no idea is better than any other idea? Does the fact that policies are frequently imper­fect mean that one should attempt to improve those policies or, rather, just abandon the issue altogether? Of course, "not supporting ineffective legislation" does not mean "not caring." However. in the absence of proposals of effective legislation from Republicans, suspicion arises as to real motives. The traditional Republican approach to the environment is the frequently discredited one of allowing companies to enforce themselves. Of' course, Republicans receive mil­lions from companies to encourage this position -a cynical person might even say that many companies have no intention of enforcing them­selves. 
Ferrell vastly understates the overwhelmingly positive impact of environmental legislation. And without Democrats (and a few Republicans of good will). there would be no Clean Air Act, no Clean Water Acl. and no effective method of enforcing corporate responsibility in regard to the environment. Give credit where credit is due. It is ludicrous even to compare the Democratic party record to the systematic attempts of the Republican party in 1994 to dismantle even the most basic environmental legislation. 
Lest one think naively that no corporation is completely irresponsible anymore, I point to the long-standing battle between the National Resources Defense Council and Texaco. The NRDC is a highly respected, non-profit, public interest group. According to the NHDC. in 1988, ."our scientists uncovered evidence from Texaco's own internal reports showing that the company had been knowingly and illegally discharging tons of oil, grease and other highly toxic pollu­tants into the [Delaware] river since 1983." Armed with Texaco's own pollution reports and the testimony of local residents, NRDC quickly filed suit against Texaco in federal court. The oil company responded with legal delay tactics for three years, during which it continued to pollute the Delaware River. Finally, in 1991, the case went to trial and a federal judge, calling NRDC's evidence against Texaco (practically unassail­able}, determined that the company had violated the Clean Water Act on a total of 3,360 days." Texaco, fined heavily and discredited, continued to resist and eventually faced contempt proceed­ings for its obstinate delays in undertaking a court-ordered environmental study. The court battle continued into January 2000! 
In regard to race relations, critics of the Democratic Party like Farrell enjoy pointing out the traditional racism of Southern Democrats. Unfortunately, time has passed for that objection. Long ago, the most notorious racists in our gov­ernment (such as Strom Thurmond) got the mes­sage and switched allegiances, to the Republican Party. 
Many Republicans these days endlessly lam­baste President Clinton while lionizing Ronald Reagan as the serene embodiment of the ideals of the Party. Reagan demonstrated his concern for children and education by trying to abolish (not revamp!} the Federal Department of Education. all the while selling weapons to the Contras in blatant defiance of the law. Lest we forget, Bill Clinton was not the first president to have trouble recalling facts while under oath. 
Ferrell imagines that there is no coherent ide­ology to political parties. However, there is, and it's called a platform. In the real world, most of the time, legislators vote the party line. If consci­entious Notre Dame Catholics should not be Democrats because of the abortion issue, a host of issues dictate that they not be Republican either. Realistic voters must honestly address the institutional Republican Party's legacy of social irresponsibility on a wide range of issues, not wish it away. 
Tim Campbell Senior Alumni Hall February 8, 2000 

.,._______,..._______________-. 
----~~~l 
j' It. 

C 
s
en@ 
O
THE BSERVER Friday, February 11, 2000 
Saint Mary's: It's one heck 
f 


Editors note: Scene will continue to fea­Saint Mary's has five residence halls in .... ture the dorms and residence halls of four buildings, strange as that might Notre Dame and Saint Mary's throughout sound, and each one has its ovrn charac­the spring semester. Anyone interested in ter and spirit. The residence hall, am the 
.. -· ----» ,.,..:-...­
,

writing a dorm feature should e-mail heart of St. Mary's identity, and it is from --... 
Scene at Scene@nd.edu this beating heart that the college arteries pump out fresh, newly oxygen-invirogated women into a global body eager for strong By ANDREW McDONNELL and vibrant voices with pleasant pitch and Scene Writer timbre. For many of these women, their journey to the world begins in Regina It is now; it is here, that the loneliest Hall. 
tears fall, muffied in drifts of dirtied snow. Now. What is now? Now is the lull that 
Regina Hall 

rests quietly between Groundhog and Prom the outside, Regina Hall, not to-beValentine's Day, the days where we sit pronounced with a "long i" unless onewith hearts in a quivering flux between wants to be "smacked," is perhaps Saintthe loss of a rodent whose very shadow is Mary's most unrnmarkable residence hall: feared and revered, and a day devoted to flat and block-like in appearance. Thethe expression of romantic love. Where beauty of a place is more than brick-deep,can a young person turn in a tirrrn of such however, and once one has entered thestraining flux? The answer, which you are lobby of Regina, one knows that this is aall surely screaming in your thoughts, is special place. The foyer of this impressive community. 
structure holds two tiny pews on eachThis, and nothing less, is whai life in the side, as if to say, "Welcome to a place of residence halls of St. Marv's is ail about. 
worship. Pop a kneel." It also has a tinyNow you're probably thinking: Oh, a boy potted plant that looks like a palm tree,is writing this article about St. Mary's? 
seemingly placed to compliment the pews. 
Ooooo a boy! ½bat's a boy doing writing One is left 'hith a sensation that this is a an article about a school that would not place both sacred and tropical. 
admit him, even after five attempts? Well, Inside the main doors, the visitor is con­I'll tell you what, everyone, before we go fronted with an impressive chapel, and any further, let's just get this out of the two expansive lounges on either side of way and say that I love Saint Mary, l love the main lobby. The lounge on the southher college, and as an Observer journalist side is brilliantly furnished in clusters ofI possess the integrity to discuss Saint sofas and easy chairs ideally arranged for Mary's with an objective eye and a profes­conversation. It also features an enor­sional pen. 
mous glass wall that peers over the indoor That is to say, this is not just going to be swimming pool and a very nice grandanother article about tickle fights. 
piano where people can rattle off a fow ditties while they smoke a well earned and fully acceptable cigarette. The North Lounge is also nice and features a fire­place. 
Home is where the heart is, and the distractions. A couple of Saint Mary's women take a st
One of Regina's 
most popular features 
is that it is composed said, "The best part of Regina is probably McCandless Hall is another residence 
almost entirely of sin­living across the hall from all of your hall largely associated with underclass­
gles. The first floor friends. Since almost every room is a sin­women and also one that lacks some of 
offers larger rooms, gle, you get your own space, and your the visual appeal of the older buildings. It 
but for the most part friends are all right there." was completed in 1964 and named for 
the rest of the dorm is Senior Kathleen Foley disagreed. "I feel Saint Mary's Marian McCandless, the 
filled with singles, bad for them," she said of Regina resi­alumna who founded the Saint Mary's 
most belonging to dents. "It's funny 'cause it sounds nice in publication, The Courier, in 1966. Its exte­
younger members of all the brochures. It's got a pool, it's close rior is a fairly plain brown brick face with 
the Saint Mary's com­to classes, you get a single. But when you rows of what look like compressed train 
munity. open your door, your room is closet-size. tracks wrapped around the building's 
Regina is a building Well ... it ain'i so bad." perimeter. 
that can produce very That is apparently the most common Like Regina, the interior of McCandless different complaint of Regina residents, but King distinguishes it from the rest of Saint responses when said that though the rooms are roughly 8-Mary's living facilities. Having the advan­it enters the by-10, it is worth it in the end, just to be tage of being the newest residence hall, ring of candid part of the Regina community. King said, McCandless can offer such amenities as discussion. "It's a really good community. It's friendly, the air-conditioned study carrels for each Sophomore and everyone says hi to everyone." room, and um ... a sink in every room. Stephanie King Which is admittedly a smaller amenity,
McCandless Hall 
but think of how much time a body doesn't have to spend walking back and forth every time those cl10mpers need a brushing. OK, so it's not the nicest of interiors either, physically, but look deeper. Look at the community within! 
According to the staff of McCandless, it has sections that are a little smaller so thoy am more closely knit. Additionally, the students living in McCandless are mostly underclasswomen, so it is a very energetic place. 
Hall Director Kelly Ignatoski is very enthusi­astic about her new role in McCandless. "I love McCandless," she said. "l 



(Top) A Saint Mary's woman works on a computer. (Bottom left) A couple of SMC women chit-chat between a studying session. wouldn't want to live (Bottom right) Le Mans Hall serves both as a residence hall and as an administrative buildlng. anywhere else. It is a 

,....______,___,___"':""_____~..----------------------------:-------------•-;".IP"'.-"';J-~.---.. 
. \ 

C s 
Friday, February 11, 2000 

fa happenin' community 
monument to the archi­tecture of tho past -Holv Cross Hall. lt is a beautiful old building, the oldest of' the resi­dence halls in fact, and just by walking across its front porch and into its classic lobby with twin, curved staircases, one cannot help but foe! a pang of jealousy thal one cannot live there. Especially if one isn't even afforded the chance just because of one's gender. One can really feel the pangs if that's the case. That's when the sting begins to burn. 
Holy Cross is home to 


NELLIE WILLIAMS!The Observer

:~20 residents, mostlv 
(Top) Some women hang out in the hallway, proving that Saint Mary's extends even to its hallways. (Bottom right) A gal studies for
second-and third-yeir 
class; remember, Saint Mary's Is also a school. (Bottom left) The grand Holy Cross Hall has really big rooms. 
\ I 

great building, and it has a great spirit. And we have a great staff. And I'm not just saying that because they're all stand­ing behind me." And that is when the brawl erupted. Not really, but it was touch-and-go for a minute there. 
Asked what she thought of McCandless Hall. Le Mans senior Kathleen Foley replied, "No tunnels, no way," in refer­ence to McCandless's omission from the underground tunnel network at St. Mary's. Foley continued, "And it's closer to Angela Athletic Facility, so it's probably full of really skinny girls." 
But the residents of McCandless know it as more than a location. To them, it's just home. 
Holy Cross Hall 
At the end of the tree­lined Avenue lies a students, and it is possessed of some of the largest rooms ever created. No joke ­you could squeeze a roller skating rink into some of these rooms and still have room to herd alpacas. They are immense and feature hardwood floors, incredibly high ceilings, enormous v..indows, but they only have two temperature settings -Hell and Eskimo Hell. 
The real charm of' this building is not in its parlors or its VendoLand. It is in its community. These are no hostile Amazon women in Holy Cross, living in gated seclusion bringing in men for the sole pur­pose of breeding and then sending them to the place from whence they came. No, these be a friendly and chaste people, and though the author of this article was required to be accompanied by an escort, as are all men in all St. Mary's residence halls, it was still one of the most welcom­ing environments on campus. 
Responding to inquiries of her opinion of Holy Cross Hall, though, LeMans Hall resi­dent Foley stated, "I think it's gorgeous and it's beautiful. but sh-t, the whole dis­tance to class thing. It's way out there." 
Annunciata Hall 
The fourth floor of Holy Cross Hall is actually a residence hall unto itself. Annunciata Hall, a.k.a. "The Rockin' Sorority," is a special section designed for seniors to live in community together, and that is exactly what happens. They live in community. It looks like a normal floor, but Annunciata offers extra amenities such as a very nice break room with a big screen TV. It also has its own computer lab and kitchen, and membors of the com­munity are given a key that accesses the basement entrance so they do not have to pass the scrutiny of the front desk every time they want to enter and leave the building. 
An Annunciata resident who would onlv identify herself as "Gabby" explained: "It's just nice being on a floor with all seniors. The extra door is just a little extra incen­tive." 
Fellow Annunciataette Megan Bodary agreed: "I feel tough. I feel like a big kid, finally, you know? I just like the feeling when you walk in the elevator and get to say, 'Could you press four, please?' It's a separation. It's just enough." 
While there will always be a naysayer such as Foley, -who said: "I always thought it was so funny that they renamed it a whole hall when it's just the fourth 

floor. That's all it is!" -there is something impressive about the community of Annunciata. It is com­posed entirely of women on the brink ofleaving one stage of life and embarking on another journey, and they are all in it. They are all in it together. 
Le Mans Hall 
Opened in 1925, Le Mans (silent "s") Hall houses 520 students 
-

and numerous administrative offices, but it is also the most recognizable land­mark on the Saint Mary's campus. It is an enormous structure with a commanding bell tower as its focal point. Once inside, the first floor is a wonderland of classy wood paneling, and the main lobby is speckled with small metal chandeliers that give it an almost medieval flavor. Large wooden pillars also make their presence felt in the lobby, soft­ly whispering, "Is it a forest, or is it an indoor place?" And then it cackles. 
Most Le Mans Ball residents are absolutely in love with the building and the people who people it. "There's a lot of quiet," said RA Sara Velligan, "so it's easy 
,,. 

to get things done. And at the same time there are a lot of distractions whenever you want to find them. Best of both worlds. really." 
Surprisingly enough, Foley agreed: 'Tm lazy and Le Mans is close to everything. Yeah, we're huge. We have the most washing machines of any building on campus." 
And the one naysayer in Le Mans, who desired anonymity. stated, "There is no best part about living on campus. They're unhelpful and stupid ... Ijust don't like the business department, that's all. I'm sorry." So really, she can pretty much be dis­counted. 
Indeed, any residence hall at Saint Mary's offers a sense of spirit that is diffi­cult to match at other schools; almost all of the women interviewed agreed. Even Kathleen Foley. Despite the sometimes­hindersome issues of visitation hours and 
-... 

access cards, life on the Saint Mary's cam­pus is a life lived in community, and it is largely through this community that Saint Mary's students are able to prepare them­selves for the world outside. 

I• j' 
C s 
page 16 Friday, February l 1, 2000

SUB's SLF pulls into ND 
This weeks Sophomore Literary Festival brings bright writers to Notre Dame, including Pulitzer Prize winner William Kennedy. 
Notrl' Dame room of LaFortune, By MARY ANNE LEWIS so make it a date. Bring that 
Scene Wrirer 
special someone for a special time with rhyme. 
About the speakers ... 
"Whu do we want? Do you guys have any ideas?" Sixth stop: Notre Oame 
... 
Bharat! Mukheljee, Saturday, 8 p.m. "The Middleman and Other
"I was thinking of Tori Amos Bookstore Stories"or Sarah McLachlan." If the date went well, wby not 
Novels: "Leave it fo Me;'' "The

"All right -those are pretty bring that significant other to a Holder of thA World," "Jasmine," Awards: The National BoQkbig names. Anyone a bit more follow-up date? Lee will host a "Wife" and "The Tiger:s Daughter" Critics' Circle Award for Bestsubtle?" workshop Tuesday at 10 a.m. 
Fiction ("The Middleman"),
"How about some authors 

Non-fiction: "Days and· Nights in Guggenheim Fellowship. NEA
from Core?" Seventh stop: Washington Calcutta" and "The Sorrow and the grant. NEB-funded "resource"Hey, good idea." llall 
Terror: The Legacy ofthe Terrorist expert" on world literature.
Now SLFL offers you a very Bombing of Air India Flight #182" Canada Council Senior ArtsIt's coming. Momentum has special opportunity to see fellow .Fellowship and Woodrow Wilsonbeen building since April of last students read Hrnir own works. 
Collections: "DarknesS" and Guest Residencies 
year. Dozens of people are Each student will have approxi­involved and even more are mately 30 minutes to present ' ' .
;. 

excited. The train arrives this his/her work, and the evening William Kennedy, Sunday, 8 p.m. Children's Books: Saturdav and all are invited to should last about two hours. '!Charlie Mi1l1.tpkey and the .Belly
hop on for the ride. The journey llear the innermost thoughts of Nov~~ls: "The Ink Truck," "Legs," BuHtJtj lvf.-icliine~. and. "Charlie offers excitement, danger, your frim1ds on this entertaining "Billy Phelan's Greatest Game," Malarkl:)yandthe Siugin.gMoose'; · romance, beauty, satire and evening. which will Lake place "lronweed,:' "Quinn's Book," "Very 
imagination. Tuesday from 8 to 10 p.m. Old B011es'' and "The Flaming Plays: "Gr.md View" 
The conductor's name is Sara Corsage" Branch. She has organiwd tlrn Eighth stop: Washington Awards: National Book Critics route through hard work and Hall, again Screenplays: "The Cotton Club" Circle Award. Pulitzer Prize. PEN good timing -time is of ulti­On Wednesdav from 8 to 10 and ''Ironwood" Faulkner award, member of mate importance on the rail­p.m., see author Andrew American Academy of Arts and let­ways. And over there is the Iludgins as he presents his own Collections: "Riding the Yellow ters, Academy of Motion Picture Arts assistant, Mary Ellen Donahue. work to Notre Dame students, TrollyCar" and Sciences. MacArthur Foundation Well, all aboard! staff, faculty and other mem­Fellow, Commander of the Order of 
bers of the community. A recep­Arts and Letters (in France) First st.op: Library tion will follow for the writer in Auditorium the Notre Dame Boom of 
The train arrives Saturday at LaFortunc. 
Li-Young Lee, Monday, 8 p.m. Simon Guggenheim Memorial 8 p.m. sharp to visit Bharati Foundation f'ellowship, Illinois Mukherjee. Arrive early to Ninth stop: Notre Dame Books of Poetry: ''Rose,'' «The Arts Council grant, ensure seating. She will read, Bookstore City in Which I Love You" Commonwealth of Pennsylvania answer questions and develop Work personally with Andrew grant, Pennsylvania Council on thoughts. The train departs lludgins in a workshop offered Autobiographies: "TM Winged the Arts grant, Mrs. Giles Whiting after 10 p.m. Destination is the Thursday at 10 a.m. Meet the Seed" Foundation Writer's Award, New Notre Dame Room of Lafortune man himself, and learn from his York University~s Delmore for a reception with the author. work and experience in the lit­Awards; NaUonll.l.~nd(}wment Schwartz Memorial Award, 
erary world. for the Arts fell.0~1>hiP.;t11n11an Lamont Poetry Selection of the Second stop: 1',;otre Dame Foundation.•.·..·.fell.ow&hli;n<Jqhn Academy of American Poets Bookstore Tenth, and final, stop: Departure takes place Sunday Washington Hall at 11 a.m. Travelers will once The last opportunity to board 


And~w Hudgins, Wednesday, 8 p.m. Hodder. feJl.W (Princeton),
again be able to see Bharati in takes place Thursday evening at National Endowment for the Artsall her personal glory as she 8 p.m. Train leaves from a pre­Books of poetry: "Babylon in a fellow, Ingram Merrill Foundationhosts a workshop for aspiring sentation by John Edgar Jar," "The Glass Hammer," ''The fellow, 1989 Poets' Prize winner,authors and all others interest­Wideman and moves on to the 
-Never-Ending,'' ''After the Lost 1997 Frederick Bock Prize,
ed. The trip should grant a nice l\otre Dame Room of Lafortune War" and "Saints and Strangers" Ohioiana PoetryAward for lifetimeview and many new insights. special thank to
for a you contribution.·. to poetry, The
Wideman for joining everyone Collections: "The Glass Anvil" Fellowship of Southern Writers'Third stop: Washington Hall at Notre Dame. Climb on for the Hanes Prize, American AcademySee William Kennedy at 8 grand finale before returning Awards: Wallace Stegner fellow and Institute of Arts and letters' p.m. on Sunday. The evening home. 
(Stanford University), Alfred C. Witter Bynner Prize 
will consist of a reading perfor­mance and is anticipated to par­Thank you for riding SLF ticularly delight the students Lines. We hope you have < ,)J:: q•~ .fl:. taking Core classes. enjoyed your trip, seen interest­John Edgar Wideman, Thu,sday, 
ing things, and learned a bit 
Sp.m.

Fourth stop: Library along the way. Thank the Auditorium Student Union Board for the 
All day trips cancelled so that $20,000 funding for the trip, as Sophomore Literary Festival well as the concentrated efforts Lines (SL.FL) can make this of such pcoplP as Hranch and 
spectacular offer of an after­Donahue. They haYe put in noon with William Kennedy quite a bit of time, work and Monday at 3 p.m. in the Library thought into this project and Auditorium for a Seminar ses­have every hope for its success. 
sion concerning his writing and Donahue, working on the pub-related experiences. 1ic relations committee, has tried to ensure publicity for this Student readers· Include: Paul :CainJr~Jij, lVO.~h~la Cost,110, Andrew McDonnell, Fifth stop: The land of poetry occasion through the newspa­
Lisa Marie Fatirega, ~(~an Q:r:>on()ghue a~d Kar~ Zuaro
Our host will be none other per, radio and by word-of­than Li-Young Lee. This trip is mouth. ... recommended to the light of Furthermore. Branch has 
written hundreds of invitations, Coffeehouse in order to prepare aged to attend the presentations 
heart and to all lovers of poetry. been working as the head of the and Branch has been keeping in for personal presentation in the and workshops held by BharatiIt is this year's only voyage to committee since Amy Sellers touch with the writers. "They hopes of claiming a precious Mukherjee and Williamthis special spot, and places are stepped down from the position seem very excited to come here, half-hour in which to pour forth Kennedy, both of whom weregoing fast. Su grab a place as last year. Since April, the com­to see Notre Dam(! and to learn tlrnir most intimate writings read by Core students. 
soon as possible. Seating is lim­mittee in charge of the what Notre Dume students are Feb. 15. Four very talented stu­ited. Sophomore Literary Festival has like," she said. dent. writers will finally have the The train is leaving soon.
Boarding time and place: been working to find authors 
Students have been audition­opportunity on Tuesday. Jump on, and keep your eyes
Monday 8 p.m., Washington and other types of writers to 
ing and perhaps even per­All students working in Core and ears wide open! 
Hall. Reception follows in the come to Notre Dame. They have 
formed in November's classes this year are encour-ALL ABOARD! 
', I: 


CEAi! ) 2 q
' , . 


Friday, February l l, 2000 os~tRVER page 17 
TECHNOLOGY SCENE 
Get free stuff with 21st Century Digital Boy 
Whatever side of the millennium So, what things and great sources of Oh, but that isn't even the half of lt! in the case of software, can save the debate you are on, you cannot argue informatio11 am I talking about'? Well Vo you like music? Looking for that student a ton of money. If you are tlw fact that tlHi digital rnvolution is in for starters, news sources like the hard to find picture? Looking for a looking for some software from Adobe, full swing. So much so th,tl this new Obscrver.nd.edu, aud nytimes.com. movie Clip'.' Macromed.ia, or even Microsoft, look c1\11tury is promising These two sources arc virtuallv the Why not try one of the best media no further than the OIT's computer to be one that will only thing you as a Notre Dame ~Jr search engines, Scour.net? This site is store. witness llw greatest Saint Mary's student need to stay on fantastic for everything MP3 to JPG, Not only will you probably find it advances in com­top of the current news. And the best and it's very rasy to use. How about right away without having to go to puter Lcclrnolog:, part is that they are free! In fact, there some extra hard drive space? Well, Best Buy, but also you will find it for that the world has is a whole plethora of things that you why not simply use the free space at much cheaper. Every company has dif­ev0r siwn, or even can find fur free on the Internet. If vou Jreedrir•e.com. They will give you up to ferent set discounts for educational dreamed alrnul. read my inside ooh.mm awhile back: 50 mcgalJytcs of free space when you software though, so thf)..best advice is 
With the sights or you already know about sign up. still to shop around. Don't forget the hardcore pro­mru•akeup. com, a free on line service l\Jced to send some letters in the though, the University has a signed grammers set on that will call you in the morning and mail, and can't quite scrape 33 cents deal with Microsoft to receive the arti!'icial intelli­wake yoll up for dass. together? No problem: Just surf over Office Suite and many other applica­gnnrn, and the 13ut there is really so much more to to postage4free.com and get 10 free tions at a next to nothing price of $5. sights or the eom-talk about, like dialpad.cum, which envelopes with postage licked on them Just make sure not to pay $250 for it puter 11ngi1wers on will allow vou to <'.all anvwherP .in the for nothing. The possihil.ities am end­at the bookstore! placing compult:rs Access Denied United States over the 1{1ternet for less! The best thing to do in this age of in every facet of free. All you need is a microphone and I am sure there are more things out technology is stay informed and jump domm:tic life. this you can talk for as long as you want, there on the Internet too, but I don't at the froe stuff when you can. Most of century will lJe to as far away as you want -this one have enough space to probably list the time a company only collects some nothing short of a wild LP-chnology is my personal favorite. them all. I have tried all aforemen­basic information like an address and rnller coaster ride~. That is only the beginning though. tioned serYices, confirming that they phone number, which won't be the 
So you ask, what does this really There are tons of free software and are all legitimate, and all follow same next year anyway! Check out mean to mt', :v1r. i\nd !\!rs. John Q. utilities that you can ,download from through on their promises. But there these sites which I have listed, and Publir'I sites like zdnet.com, shareware.com or are things that you can get right here happy surfing. 
Naturally. it means a !'aster dissemi­filez. com. Many of the programs are on Notre Dame's campus for next to nation of information and access to shareware, but some are freeware, nothing. Ifyou have any ideas for next week, things that wern previously unavail­and really. there is nothing better than For instance, educational discounts let me know at revers. l@nd.edu or ablci. free. run rampant on a college campus, and scene@nd.edu. 

THE Guy 


Dating al ND. Dating is a good idea. lkcausn guys and girls live are in separate buildings it is extra important that you date. otlrnrwise it gPts scarier and scarier to take a shower. 1 like to visit the girl's dorms. Since all the girls are in one spot they an~n·t afraid to let it all hang out and sometimes you can sc\e som11 interesting stuff. l was in PW a fpw days ago and saw a girl zipping up her fly while walking down the hall. 
I wanl lo take a time-out here and ask all ND students and faculty to make sure they flush the toilet after they do the poo. If you don't l'lush, and you don't do it because vou think vour poop looks nni1t anrl you· want other people to see it, I can promise you that we don't. If you really am amazed at the lrBasures that come out of vou, tlwn bring a plastic bag or ·11 bowl. and sonw rubber gloves and bring it home with you. In the meantime for all of us clean people, keep pooping on the end toil!it. 
The Lone Response: 
! would just like to thank Scott Little for his stereo­typical genPralization of womPn. It has been a long time since I have had the pleasure of' such a good laugh. J\-holc. 
Jessica Needles 
Freshman 
R~gina Hall 

CJle said' ••• Sfie said••. 
Scene asks about love in a series of columns leading up to Valentines Day. 
-cJodat: 6Jf,e campus tlatfflfJ scene ­
Respond to these columns at Scene@nd.edu 

There am nicer places to live than South Bend, but we can make it seem better bv flush­ing. Maybe someday they will get a town sign that says "South Bend: The town that flushes." 
As for dating, there are many things to do, you just have to be a creative mastermind to find them. Going out to eat is popu­lar on Wednesdays. And it doesn't take long to figure out what bar to go to on every night. There arc always the movies. Anything can really be a date. People should just be lighthearted and accept that massage from a stranger. Or sit by that lonely person at lunch. That's a date. Invite some opposite sf'xers ovor for an episode of' "The Simpsons." Climb some trees, go to the Snite, jump off the diving board at Rolf's. Go date, it's the best lime in your lifo to meet all sorts ol' people. Then when you get to know them better ask them if they flush the toilet. And if they uon't, tell them you never want to seP them again. 
Notre Dame is one weird place when it comes to gender relations and commitment between men and women. I think to have commit­ment, relationships are necessary; and those seem few and far between here at ND. ­
Let's examine the Notre Dame relationship, shall we. We'll begin with freshmen year: This is a time when crowds of first-year students can be seen roaming campus (and the off-campus apartment complex­es) on Friday and Saturday nights. These groups participate in dorm­hopping. They move from building to building looking for a good time. Many of these students engage in multiple random hook-ups those first few months of school. They're looking for a good time in a dark corner with an unfamiliar face. Someone they can brag to their friends about, or more likely, avoid in the dining hall for the next four years. 
The darker side to the freshman idea of tho relationship -the per­manent cormnitment. These not-so­rare people find another like-mind­ed individual and begin Lhe dating ritual. These people want to contin­ue on the Notre Drone i'amily ­personally. Before you know it, it is four years later and the couple is trying to decide which city could provide themselves and their chil­dren with the best opportunities. How does it happen? Why isn't their an exorbitant amount ofrnla­tionship-hopping going on? The answer, my friends, comes in the 
THE GAL 


ERICKA RAVETTINE 
form of an example: the SYR. 
Ah, the SYR. This is a dance no one really wants to go to, but every­one must. It's a rite of passage for the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student. However, with the dance comes the undue pressure of "who do I take?" This is the trouble. 
By the time the dance draws near, you are ready to invite just about anyone -a friend, a friend's friend, that person who sits next to you in class, some guy/girl that passes you in the dining hall or the first cute picture you come to in the Dog Book. 
Though everyone experiences this feeling of desperation, the invi­tee always reads too much into the invitation. Fleeting thoughts of "Oh, he/she must really like me" and "Next spring will he our one year anniversary" are pervasive throughout the evening. The prob­lem (in this example) lies in the mixed-up mindset of the invitee; commitment and dating relation­ships will not ever be normal here if men and women can't learn to talk to each other, rather than jumping to grand conclusions on their own. 
So, what does that leave us with? By senior year, you will know a handful of couples getting married after graduation; you will actually know a few couples who arc tying the knot before that. The rest of your friends, however, will still be in that dark dorm room corner from freshman year, still terrified of any kind of commitment. 
Monday's topic: Valentine's Day -comments on the holiday 
• I< 

r--11110..--<.,.-<c::-.-~----..1-A -~-..__..,.._____.~•-----~,......._.______ ~---------------,---~----------~----------•--...
¦ •.' 
page 18 The Obsemer . SPORTS Friday, February 11, 2000 
NFL 

Marino voids last two years of contract 
Associated Press 
DAVIE, Fla. 
Dan Marino now has some time, and the Miami Dolphins have more money. 
Marino. tlrn !\TL career leader in passing yardage. voided the final two vears of' his ,~ontract with the l)olphins on Thursday. It remainf'd undear whether the 38-year-old quarterback will retire or return for another sea­son. 
Marino r,ould rejoin the Dolphins or go to another team as a free agent. 
'Tm not going to speculatP­about what Dan's going to do." Dolphins president Eddie Jones said Thursday. 
"Dan is a great 
'Tm sure he's going 
athlete and he's 
through the thought 
done everything possible he can process oJ 'Do I still want do in football. 
to do this?' He had the 
'Tm sure he's 
injury last year and his
going through the thought knees are not getting any process of. 'Do I 
better." 
still want to do this?' I-le had the injury last Eddie Jones year and his Dolphins president 
knees are not 
getting any bet­
ter. I'm sure that's what he's 
thinking about." 
Marino threw 12 touchdown passes and 17 interceptions last season. missing five games and most of' a sixth because of a neck injury. He finished with a career-low 67.4 passer rnting. 
Coach Dave \\'annstedt has indicated that he would prefer to go with a younger quarter­back like Jim Druckenmiller or Damon Huard. who was 4-1 as a starter last season. 
Though there is no timetable for Marino ·s decision. he likely will make an announcement before ~arch 20. the day the Dolphins begin their offseason workout program. 
"We've got a new coordinator, a new head coach and we're going to have a new offensive 

system," Jones said. "And I don't know how Dan fits into 
that." 

With Marino no longer under contract, the Dolphins gained $5.8 million to spend during tho free agPnt signing period, whirh begins Friday. They also released veteran tight end Troy Draytun on Thursday. 
Dravton, 29, said he will not re-sign with the Dolphins for less money. 
'Tve paid my dues as far as a football player," said Drayton, who caught 32 passes for 299 vards last season. ''I'm finan­cially secure, but money is defi­11itelv an issue. I'm a veteran and icnnsidn myst>U' oni> of the best tight ends in tho league. 
''I'm just going to put some bait on the end of the hook, watch the line and sP.e if thP.re aro any takers." 
Marino might have some tak­ers, too. 
At times. last season, Marino showed glimpses of the player who 
owns nearly every NFL passing record. 
He led Miami to two fourth­quarter comebacks during the regular season. But the Dolphins were embarrassed 62­7 at Jacksonville in the ser,ond round of the playoffs. Miami trailed 38-0 before Marino com­pleted a pass. He finished 11-of­25 for 95 yards with three turnovers. 
"I don't think anybody wants to end a career on the kind of game that we played in Jacksonville," Drayton said. "I-le deserves to go out on a white horse and with lots or fanfare. He's done a lot to revolutionize the quarterback position and the NFL as a whole. 
"I can't see Dan in another uniform." 
PGA 
Tired Woods falters in Buick Invite 
Asoociated Press 
SAN DIEGO 

Davis Lovn Ill and Phil Mickelson, lwo victims ol' lhe greatest winning streak on the PG.I\ Tour in 52 years, put themselvr.s in position Thursday for anoth­
f:r rrack at slopping T i g e r Woods. 
W hi I e W o o d s 
was out of svnc and u~~ually in the rough. Love 
recovered from one mess after another and finished a roller-coastor round at 7­under 65, gb,ing him a one­strokf: lead over Mir,kelson in the Buick Invitational. 
"I just didn't have it," Woods sai.d after a ·1-undrr 71. 
Love, who finished four strokes back or Woods in the Tour Championship, made 10 birdies and a 30-l'oot par save on the South Course at Torrey Pines, considered the more difficult or the two tracks. 
Mickelson, the first victim in the streak that began with the NEC Invitational in August. shot a 66 on the North Course. 
While Love is trying to win for the first time in nearly two 
years.  his  thoughts  were  
never  too  far  away  from  
v\loods.  

"He's the guy to beat as long as he doesn't hurt him­self," Love said. "He's been on a roll since high school." 
Woods was two days removed from his sixth straight victory Monday at rain-delaved Pebble 13each, and he lo·oked like he could have used a day off. 
Trouble was. there was a tournament going on. 
When he failed to birdie the par-5 ninth on the North Course, Woods limped in at 1­under for a six-shot deficit, the largest he has faced after the first round since he trailed by eight strokes in the Bay Hill Invitational 11 months ago. He tied for 58th in that f'vent. . 


"It's OK. There are a lot or holes to play." Woods said. "'l proved that last year. You can go out there and make it up on the wr.ekend. or even tomorrow." 
Last year? What about last week'? 
He was five strokes bai;k going-into tho l'inal round at Pebble Boar,h -seven shots back with seven holes to play -and still managed to win for the sixth straight time, ;:itP.tching Ben Hogan in 1948 for the second-longest strnak on the PGA Tour. 
Ho has his work cut out for him if hf~ is to takn another step toward Byron Nelson's record of 11 in a row. And if the first round was any indi­r,a tiou, a couµle of prime players an> lining up to stop him. 
"I think guys like Fred CouplPs (68). Davis Love and myself are really trying to play at a different level. and hopefully have a different winner out on tour," Mickelson said. "Nobody has really done it yet." 
Maybe the senet is to give Woods a short week to get ready. After the Monday thriller at Pebble, he was at Torrey Pines at the r,rack of dawn on Tuesday and spent Wednesday in the pro-am. All of it seemed to take a toll on the 24-year-old Woods. 
He was 2-over after three holes. and lucky to be that. lie didn't hit a fairway. He didn't even hit a green in reg­ulation. Woods had to make a 15-foot putt on his first hole [No. 10) and a 6-footer just to salvage a bogf:y on the next one. 
By the time he reached the 507-yard 14th hole, Woods wore a look of exhaustion. Even after making a 30-foot eagle to get back to even par, it was all he could do to muster a smile. raise his put­ter in the air and lick his fin­ger to chalk one up. 
He missed a couple of 15­foot birdie putts before his first nine was over, and was muttering to himself on a long walk to the first tee. 
"I think I need a day off." be said after his round, evident by the far,t he dedined to go to the range as the sun set over the Pacific Ocean. ''I've been grinding pretty hard lately. I've been hitting a lot 1Jf balls. Maybe I'm just a little tired and need a little rr.st." 
That's not to say he had no energy. Woods swung so hard with his driver on the :~26­yard second hole that he fell a few steps back. 
"That's all I've got." Im whispered as the ball came one hop short of landing on the grnen. He lipped out a 3­footer for birdie, however, wasting the good drive. 
Still, a tough day at the office for Woods is better than par for the course. 
Even though Woods was six off tho lead, keep in mind that last year he nearly missed the cul and went on to win by two strokes with a 62-65 on the weekend. 
"The guy is awesome, man," said J.L. Lewis, who was in the group at 67. "He r,an play bad and win. and there is not very many guys that you can say that about. There are other guys who have a lot of talent. but he gets the most out of his." 
That's the task facing Love and Mickelson. two supremely talented players who haven't gotten much out of their games lately. 
Mickelson failed to win last year for the first time sinr,e 1992, ending the longest active streak on the PGA Tour. Love won over $2 mil­lion last year, but also failed to win. 
Love spent the offseason trying to retool his swing, which he says partially con­tributed to his back and neck problems last year. The swing held up fine Thursday, even though it took him 10 holes to record a simple par. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ar the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per charncter per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST & FOUND 
ANNABELLE-YOU LEFT YOUR GLASSES AND CONTACT CASE IN MY CAR WHEN I GAVE YOU A RIDE TO ND FROM THE TRAIN STATION MONDAY. CALL 272­9225 
Lost Cincmatti Reds hat. left at JACC clItring LNO, HUGE senti­mental value reward if found Call Scott 4-1304 
Found: Pager on Sout11 Quad. II you lost It, page the pager and add a star to the end and I will call you back so it can be returned. 
WANTED 
Professor needs 3 hrs. help on 
small farm 1 mile from N.D. 
277-5328 
Email Ford"1@nd.edu 
WANTED 2 Tx 
MBBall ND-UCONN 
Please call 
Alan 634"4469 
South Bend based company is presently in search of a dynamic accomplished IT professional/Web guru for the development of its new Internet business team. Successful candidate possesses advanced computer skills and has an exten­sive knowledge of all aspects of web management, graphic/techni­cal design and programming. Forward resume to: Human Resource Dept. PO Box 1007 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
In search of Web guru for South Bend based company. Creative free thinker, who can do it all with the Web. Forward resume to: Resonnel Dept. PO Box 185 Osceola. IN 46561 
Childcare needed. 1 or 2 students for 20 hrs per week between 9 and 5 to watch 2 yr old & newborn for ND pro! in our home.Experience and uansport~­tion required.Some flexibility in scheduling possible Please call Rose at 289-3856. 
South Bend based company seeks til lented graphic designer Advanced PhOtoShop and other design software skills required.Send resume.salary requirements and por1tolI0 samples to :Personnel Dept PO Box 30 Notre Dame. IN 4 6556 

FOR RENT 
2-6 BDRM HOMES.'00-'01 272­
6306 
ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE AND CLOSE http://mmrnrentals.homepage.com/ ema1l:mmmrentals@aol.com 232-2595 
Available '00-01. 4·6 Student Rental House. 2 1/2 baths: lots of space; Parking Lot and Laundry. Dave 291-2209 
NICE HOMES FOR NEXT 
SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND 
EXCELLENT NEIGHBORHOOD CLOSE 2773097 
B'NB REGISTRY 
219-291-7153 
3 bdrm. home, 1-1/2 bath. 
rri-fevel, F/R w/F/P. Fenced back­yard. 2-car garage. Gas heat, AIC across from park. $1,500/mo. Grad. students preferred. 616-683-5038 or 232-4527. Mobile: 219-340-1844. 
3 ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME. $400iMO INCL. UTILITIES EXCEPT PHONE. 
NON-SMOKERS. WALKING DtSTANCE TO CAM­PUS. 
288-4241. 
FOR SALE 
New Phone Card 886 mins. $20 258•4805 or 243-9361 
1931 Honda accord EX 88,000 miles $6000 219-273-8483 
Compaq Computer has CD burner and printer $130010B0 Mike at 247-1196 
GREAT STUDENT CAR. '88 FORD FESTIVA, BLACK. 2­DR., GOOD CONDITION. MANUAL TRANS., 56K, 
AM/FM CASSETTE. FACULTY OWNED W/SERVICE RECORDS. $750, 237-1981 
PERSONAL 
www.thecommentator.com 

VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS 
Deadline is 2 pm on Friday, Feb. 11. 
I am so. so tired. And there is no Heartland for me tonight. 
Riiiiiight, Vanegas. Sell-checking. Asif. 
Shannon is my hero. Did you watch Oprat1 last Wednesday? -The SinNott 

Erin, congratulations on catching up with IR. I fear that I will never accomplish such goals. 
Like, gag me with a spoon. Alright, cropped and saved. Sweet. There's a wall between us and the 
boys. Okay, you have a screen. But you still have a wall. 
And no nachos for you. 
Cold, long walk to SMC. Thankfully for him (okay, and I 
guess for me too), his taste has gotten better. That's totally radical, dude. PUFFY PAINTI! Dude. Dude, my room is a mess. Dude. my roommate stole my 
socks. Tl1ere has to be a Ghostbusters 3. Dude, there just is I'm a good freshman. With very nice eyes. And I'm just naturally gorgeous like 
that You know how it 1s. Oh wait, you don't. I'm tt1e only 
lucky one here. "Fudge! ... Oh, sorry." 
"Right, like I've never heard "fudge" before ... my virgin ears!" NEMATODE! 
NEMATODE FOREVERI 
'I 
I I 
I 

Frid.;iy, February 1I, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Barkley's supsension lifted after St. John's appeal 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
SL. John's successfully appealed the suspension of sophomore guard Erick Barkley on Thursday and he will play Saturday against Villanova. 
On Turrnday, Barklliy, the team's loading scorer at 16.9 points per game, was suspend­f'd by thC' NCAA for three games for an undisclosed rules violation. SL John's appealed that ruling even though he had alrnady Sflrved one game ­last Saturdav's victorv over Boston College -and ;nissed a ds'e'Cond that night at Providence, another victory for the Red Storm (15-6). 
The Division I Subcommittee on Student-Athlete Heinstatenrnnt upheld St. .lohn's appeal, reducing the suspension to two games. 
·· Erick is obviously very bappy," St. John's coach Mike Jarvis said Thursday night. .. lie appreciates the game more than he did before. He was glad to prac:tice today. Usually it's a chore.... You get a sense of how relieved he is bec:ause he was concerned about his image and percep­tion." 
Tbrough Jarvis, Barkley said hr. was going home after prac­tice and would speak to the 
media after Saturday's game at Madison Square Garden. 
"Today is a time to move on," St. John's athletic direc­tor Ed Manetta said Thursday. "We're not going to got into specifics of the case because that has to du with a student's privacy and we're going to respect that right now." 
Manetta wouldn't give details about the process that stretched almost a week. from notification of the possible vio­lation to the appeal hearing. 
"The NCAA interpreted rules differently than we did," he said. "The committee today ruled on what we presented and took a middle decision 
and that's frequently  a  good  
way  to  resolve them.  This  
committee heard from  both  

sides and made a decision on that." 
The NCAA won't comment on specifics involving a deci­sion without written permis­sion from the athlete. 
The violation in question concerned exchanging cars with a family friend, two sources familiar with the case have told The Associated Press. 
Barkley traded his late model Jeep Cherokee for a bigger but older Ford Expedition that belongs to a family friend, said a source close to Barkley and another with knowledge of the matter, both speaking on condition of anonymity. 

That exchange would have been a violation of NCAA rules if Barkley received preferen­tial treatment because he is an athlete or if it constituted pos­s i b Ie payback for when he turns professional. 
Jarvis said that as far as details, ''it was pretty much what I've been reading in the paper." 
"It was just a matter of if the process were different then we wouldn't have ever had this situation in the first place. This is about the process. It needs to be changed and improved. You should be inno­cent until proven guilty," he said. 
"If there was a problem with the fact there was an exchange of autos among the friends, the first thing was re­exchanging the cars. Again that would be common sense." 
Jarvis made some strong comments about the NCAA last Saturday when the suspension was announced and he pub­licly apologized for using rape when describing his feelings. 
"The outrage had to do with the fact that our arguments were based on common sense and any time someone is wronged when it just doesn't make sense, then that would obviously make anyone out­raged," he said Thursday. 
-

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Griffeyjoins sluggers in NL Central 
sion: the Home Run Central. 

Associated Press 
With Griffey's trade Thursday from Seattle to Cincinnati, Ken Griffey Jr. swinging for baseball's three most prolific the fences with the wind blow­and exciting sluggers all play in ing out at Wrigley Pield. the same division, the National 
Sammy Susa patting Mark League Central. McGwire as he rounds first The trio combined for 368 base on yet another home run home runs the past two seasons trot. -an average of just over 61 
McGwire launching one of his apiece, more than Roger Maris' home run bombs over Griffey's record that stood until McGwire or Sosa's head. and Sosa took aim at it in 1998. 
Just a couple of years ago, This is perhaps the most those were mostly dreams. Now greatest slugging trio ever to that could be a typical day in play in one division. They rival 
baseball's most exciting divi-Babe Ruth, Lou Gehrig and 
Jimmie Foxx in the AL in the 1930s, and Hank Aaron. Willie Mays and Frank Robinson ­three of the top four career 
home run hitters -in the NL 40 years ago. 
Pitchers from Milwaukee, Pittsburgh and Houston -the three other teams in the NL Central -could be in for a long season of long ball. 
But nothing will rival the head-to-head meetings of the Home Run Kings. 
McGwire opens his season in St. Louis against Sosa's Cubs on April 3. 
cinema@thesnite 
ATRIA SALON ACADEMY' 
MONDAYS ONLY ALL SERVICES PERFORMED BY STYLISTS IN TRAINING 
Valid only with the following Junior Stylists~ Angie, Connie, Vicki, and Jennifer 
Hilites and Haircut $15.00 Penn and Haircut $15.00 Colour and Haircut $15.00 
289-5080 

1357 N. /ronvvood Dr. on the corner of' Edison 1 rnile east of' Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Certain restrictions apply. All services are performed by ou,-Junio1· Stylists in training. Please mention this ad when booking appointments_ 


..
_ 
Got sports? 
Call 1-4543 
>'I 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 11, 2000 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Griffey traded to Reds for 4 players 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Ken Griffey Jr. was trad­ed from the Seattle Mariners to the Cincinnati R e ct s to d a y a f t e r agreeing to a con­t r a c t with his home ­t O W 11 team. 
T h e agree­ment was confirmed to The Associated Press by a source close to the negoti­ations who spoke on the condition he not be identi­fied. The deal sends pitch­er Bret Tomko and out­fielder Mike Cameron to Seattle along with minor league infielder Antonio Perez and another minor leaguer, the source said. 
Cincinnati called a news conference for 6:45 p.m. EST. 
Seattle and Cincinnati agreed Wednesday night to a tentative trade that would end the l[}-time All­Star's stay with the Mariners, and Cincinnati 
-
was given 72 hours to work out a contract exten­sion with Griffey that would make the trade final. 
The trade involved only the Reds and the Mariners. There had been specula­tion a three-way deal including Anaheim was in the works. 
"The Angels are not included in any transaction involving the Reds and Mariners," Angels vice president Tim Mead said today. 
The terms or the contract and the other players involved in the trade were not immediately known. 
Griffey's agent, Brian Goldberg, said earlier this week that his client would takr less-than-market value to play for 

Cincinnati, where he grow up. Griffey, who is eligible for free agency after the season, rejected a $148 million, eight-year exten­sion offered by the Mariners last year. 
Seattle and Griffey want­ed thP matter resolved by the start of spring training. 
Griffey. 30, had 398 career home runs in 11 seasons, along with a .299 average and 1,152 RBIs. Hank Aaron, baseball's career home-run leader with 755, thinks Griffey has the best chance to top his record. 
Griffey, who will earn $8.25 million this season, the final year of an $34 million, four-year contract, told the Mariners in November that he wanted to be traded to a team closer to his home in Orlando, Fla. 
Mariners general man­ager Pat Gillick held talks with the New York Mets the following month, but Griffey then said he would accept a trade only to Cine in nati. 
Reds general manager Jim Rowden cut off negoti­ations at the winter meet­ings, saying the Mariners' demands were too steep. Bul talks resumed in recont weeks. 
Goldberg said Tuesday the Mariners gave him permission to talk directly with the Heds in an effort to break the impasse. Since there was no deal in place then and no 72-hour window, that appeared to violate baseball's rules. 
"Enough occurred for us to look into it," said Sandy Alderson, executive vice president of baseball oper­ations in the commission­er's office. 
Alderson said whether any penalties would be issued is something "that still has to be determined." 
"! would say this wouldn't take us very long," he added. "Sometime next week at the latest." 


NBA 
Rodman gets desired attention 
Assoc ia red Press 
DALLAS 

Now that Dennis Hodman has played his first game for the Dallas Mavericks, the wait begins for his first outlandish act. 
There was no reason for Rodman to dye his hair a new shade or to try anything wild on the court in his debut Wednesdav night, a 117-106 loss to Seattle. llis mere presence already had him where he wanted to be: in the spotlight. 
The key with Rodman will be how he responds once people get used to him being around again. That's when he's likely to start pulling the stunts that have made him more famous than rebourid'Y· ing ever could have. 
Another way to push his but­tons is for the Mavericks to lose a lot, something that's entirely pos­sible. Just because Bodman knows Dallas' past doesn't mean he's ready to lose more often than he wins. 
Still, no matter what Bodman does is interesting to a lot of peo­ple. His return to the NBA after 10 months of making movies. wrestling and generally getting into trouble was truly a big-time evont. 
The game drew 18,203 rans, the second-largest home crowd in the Mavs' 20-year history. More than 150 media credentials were issued, triple tho typical amount. 
Plenty of [ans were watching at home, too. Fox Sports Net report­ed Thursday that it was the most-watched Mavericks game the regional sports network has televised since it began receiving ratings in 1994. Viewership peaked at 111,700 from 8:15­
8:30 p.m. and there were an average of 94,065 television homes tuned in throughout the game. 
With so much buildup, all 
Rodman had to do was show up. And he did, even arriving fivo minutes earlier than he had to. 
Rodman played 32 minutes without any problems. 
lie grabbed 13 rebounds and played tough defense. He com­mitted five fouls and drew just as many. He missed his only shot, an attempted tip. 
"Same old Dennis,'' said Sonics forward Horace Grant. "He is still the same, pushing old Dennis." 
Bodman got away with one of his old tricks -locking his arms in another player's, then acting like he was the one knocked down when the other guy tries to get untangled. And he was effec­tive at doling out shoves in traf­fic; Emanua! Davis still may not have regained his balance from one particular jolt. 
But Rodman will need to learn about the NBA's new rules limit­ing contact. While he's at it, he should consider a refresher course in illegal defense as he was twice caught out of position. 
Teammates were excited by what they saw Wednesday. They figure that as he gets into the swing of things, he'll become more of a force. 

"He just has to get his lungs and his feet ready l'or basket­ball," teammate Cedric Ceballos said. 
Bodman told The Dallas Morning News he dmisn't mnsid­er his return a sideshow. 
"I think this is a real good opportunity for me to rome back and one, just to see if I can do it," Hodman said. "Two, the peo­ple here are very generous and nice. Three, to prove a point. If I can make this team get to the playoffs, my job is done. My job is done. 
"It's a challenge, a hell of a challenge to try to turn this team around. Even though I'm not the Michael Jordan of thP NBA, I can do something to make this team a little more physical, a little more hard-core minded that they can go out there and say, 'Hey, we can't be beat. If we're going to get beat, let's go out there and fight our butt off every night."' 
If it happens, the perception of Bodman being a grand disruptor could change. 
If the plan doesn't work, then don't be surprised if Dennis tho Menace returns. 

While high blood pressure may have no symptoms, It does have consequences. Like Increasing your risk of hean attack and stroke. That's why you should ask your doctor to check your blood ,-_ pressure and help you control II. Learn American ~e.art llllliA more a! www.americanheart.org or Assocta!lon.v 
call 1-800-AHA-USA1. FlghUng Hurt DIMU•-s,.... 
e Join the Tradit. ns are now being nager positions fi' 1 academic scho 
y pick up applications ice of Student Activiti. 315 LaFortune 
February 2 
-w osoc;m www•:wwwwwww 
Friday, February 11, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
..... 

February 10, 2000 To the Saint Mary's College Community: 
As the current Board of Governance and in light of the recent elections complications, we feel it is necessary to address the members of the student body. Let us start first by assuring each of you that the members of the current student government association who have been handling the recent events have done so with the utmost courage. responsibility, dedication, and intelligence. They deserve our support and encouragement. Their task is not, and has not been, an easy one. 
The 2000-200 I Student Body Election began with the informational meetings that are attended by all tickets considering running. At these meetings, candidates are informed of the election bylaws, and made aware of requirements and deadlines. After these meetings four tickets declared candidacy. The primary vote was conducted on Monday, January 31st and no one ticket emerged with 50% plus one vote-the requirement established in the SGA constitution for a win in the pri­mary election. As a result, according to the stipulations in the bylaws, a run-off election was held. The constitution states that, "The winner of the run-off will be that ticket with the highest number of raw votes." As we are all aware, the results of Wednesday's run-off election were a dead tie. Each ticket received the exact same number of raw votes. As this is a situation that Saint Mary's had never before been presented with, the Elections Commissioner, at the encouragement of the Director of Student Activities, approved a third election. This decision was not made according to the bylaws established in the constitution. The constitution clearly states that, "The only time a revote is to occur is if improper voting procedures were followed." Due to the fact that proper voting procedures were enforced for Wednesday's election a revote was indeed uncalled for, and in fact, was a direct violation of the stipulations set forth in the Student Government Association constitution. Furthermore, decision-making at that point rested in the hands of the Elections Committee, not the Elections Commissioner nor the Director of Student Activities. We acl,<;.nowledge that this oversight was a mistake. 
irl"N 

Unfortunatdy, this oversight was not brought to our atten~fl;until afteffriday's election. The results of Friday's election awarded the Koelsch/Rodarte a higher
,,;-1ull · J 
number of raw votes than the Renner/Nagle ticket. Thes~¥t&'ults, howi~.,are deemed unofficial for 48 hours according to the SGA constitution. This time peri­od is the window of opportunity that is present in every election. giving either ticket the opportunity to file an appeal. Proper election procedure is to inform the candidates of the unofficial results. If, after having been informed of the results, no appeal is filed by either ticket, the results become official. Complaints, on the other hand, and a careful distinction must be noted between a complaint and an appeal, can be filed at any time by any member of the student body. Again, these guidelines are set forth in the elections bylaws of the Student Government Association constitution. 
Sunday the Renner/Nagle ticket filed such a complaint. Their complaint was based on the fact that the Elections Committee was erroneously not consulted in det~rmining to conduct a third election. It also sighted another oversight regarding Friday's election procedures: off-campus voting was not allowed in the Off­Campus lounge. 
In light of these complaints, and according to the SGA constitution, the Elections Committee met on Sunday night to discuss the validity of the complaint and establish a course of action. A quorum of the Elections Committee voted unanimously to nullify Friday's election in light of what they considered to be valid complaints filed by the Renner/Nagle ticket. At this point, the Elections Committee notified both tickets of the decision to nullify Friday's election. The Elections Committee then continued its thoughtful deliberation. The Elections Committee, made up of representatives from each residence hall and off-campus students, faced a great challenge in reaching what they considered to be a fair, just, and impartial decision. The committee mentally placed itself in the position that they shouid have been in on Wednesday night: the point at which, according to the constitution, they should have been consulted. They were faced with determining what an appropriate policy would be in light of not only this election, but also bearing in mind the relevance of this decision on future elections at Saint Mary's. Several options were thoroughly discussed by the committee, including sending the tie-breaking vote to Board of Governance, establishing an emergency electorate. and reverting to Monday's numbers. A revote was NOT an option; it is a direct violation of the Student Government Association Constitution. After approximately four hours of discussion, the Elections Committee reached a conclusion. The decision of the Elections Committee is the following: In the event of a tie in the run-off election, the total raw votes cast from the primary and run-off election will be tallied and the ticket with the highest number of resulting raw votes wins. 
After a majority of the Elections Committee voted in favor of such a policy, the candidates were notified, as well as the Observer. At this point, after the decision of the Elections Committee was made, the constitution states that each ticket has 24 hours to make an appeal. 
In anticipation of a possible appeal from the Koelsch/Rodarte ticket, the Interim Elections Commissioner took steps to insure that the Elections Appeals board would be fully functioning. The Constitution states that the Elections Appeals Board is made up of three members of the senior class who are also members of either Board of Governance, Student Academic Council, Residence Hall Association, or Student Activities Board. Furthermore, the members of the Appeals Board are asked and expected to remain unbiased and refrain from campaigning for any candidates. Unfortunately, one member was unable to serve. The SGA constitution states that. "An Elections Appeals Board will be appointed by the Elections Commissioner and approved by the Executive Committee of the Board of Governance ... " In light of the inability of one member to serve, the executive board voted to approve th~ appointment of her replacement, a senior member of Student Activities Board. 
As expected, an appeal was indeed filed by the Koelsch/Rodarte ticket on the grounds that, "the decision to use the raw votes from the Monday and Wednesday elections is not a valid representation of the wishes of the student body ... " and that they believe the Renner/Nagle complaint was not filed in a manner compliant with the time restrictions stated in the Student Government Association constitution. The Appeals board convened to discuss this appeal. Again, they faced a very difficult task and several options again surfaced. However, the one option the Appeals Board knew was invalid was to call a revote or to take into considera­tion Friday's vote due to the explicit laws stated in the Student Government Constitution. As written by the Appeals Board, their decision is the following, " ... we affirm that the Elections Committee holds sole responsibility to assess elections procedures .. .In the case of the 2000-2001 election, improper elections pro­cedures occurred ... Therefore. Friday's vote was nullified ... Because Wednesday's election resulted in a tie, we refer back to the vote of the Monday, January 31st elections. Monday's results showed that the Renner/Nagle ticket received 43% of the total votes while the Koelsch/Rodarte ticket received 37% of the total votes. The goal of the Elections Appeals Board is to keep in mind the voice of the student body, while remaining fair to the tickets involved. We believe that our deci­sion does accomplish this objective. The decision of the Elections Appeals Board is final and binding." After reaching its decision, the candidates were notified, as well as the Observer. 
The intensity of this election refiects something that we should all be very proud of. This is reflected in the narrow split of the elections. Both tickets are made 
up of strong women yearning to serve Saint Mary's. Both are highly qualified and exemplify the best of Saint Mary's. Both have struggled to stand up for their 
rights as students and as candidates for Student Body President/Vice President. 
We regret that the unfortunate events of the past week have occurred. We always hope that elections run smoothly, and they usually do. However, these recent events have served to solidify our confidence in the workings of the Student Government Association. Events unfolded such that the Constitution was our framework. Due process was followed every step of the way. Decision-making was conducted justly and fairly. In the process, we have maintained the integrity of the elections process and the future integrity of the Student Government Association. In particular, Bridget Heffernan, our interim elections commissioner, has conducted herself ethically, honestly, and has acted with the utmost concern for the interests of the student body. 
This past week has not been easy for any of the parties involved: the candidates, the members of the Elections committee, the Appeals Board, or the student body. This eler.:tion has served to illustrate the importance that even one vote can bear. Finally, we would like to remind everyone that we are all members of the same student body. We implore you to act with graciousness and maturity. There is no one to blame. It was an unfortunate occurrence, however, the strong guidelines established by the SGA constitution have insured fairness. Keep in mind that the student body elected the officials that are currently serving their terms; it is imperative thal we have faith in and support the decisions made by the current Student Government Association. 
Thank you very much and good luck to everyone involved. We are sure that the talents of the four young women involved will not be wasted next year. Saint Mary's is truly blessed to have such skilled and able women present among its student body. 
With Respects, The SMC student body will receive a copy of this letter in their mail tomorrow. 1999-2000 Saint lVIary's College Board of Governance 
.. 
-----•_..

...--.•--------------_.,....-¥,__W ---.w _ _ ____._.._._-.---------_____ _ 
' .. J. 

r 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 1 1, 2000 
NFL 
Colts to keep Dilger for next five years 
the next five years," Colts presi­
Associated Press 
dent Bill Polian said. "We look 
forward to a great season from 
INDIANAPOLIS him." 

Ken Dilger got the long-term The league's free agency peri­commitment he wanted from the od begins at 12:01 a.m. Friday. Indianapolis Colle;. The Colts already waived line­
The vetPran tight end signed a backer Mich11,el Barber, receiver five-vear. $15 million contract Lake Dawson. running back on Thursday with the AFC East Darick Holmes and quarterback 
champions. 
'Tm very happy. I wanted to stav in Indiana and finish my career here," said Dilger, who could have become a free agent Friday. "I always felt wP would get it donr without having to have the franchise 
Stevt> Walsh. Tackle Adam 
Tm very happy. I wanted to stay in Indiana and finish my career here. " 
Ken Dilger Indianapolis tight end 

Meadows, running back Leeland McElroy and quarterback 
K e I I y 
Ilolcomb receivod one-year contract offers as r e s t r i c: t e d 
tag put on me. There were a couplt' of sticking poinL<; and we were able to work them out." 
Dilger's agent. Mark Rartelstein. said the Colts agreed to the long-term deal rather than designate Dilger as their "franchise" player. which would have given him a one-year salary 8q ual to the average of the top five tight ends in the league -$2.385 million. 
"It was a long process," Bartelstein said. "We didn't real­ly want lo be frnnchisrd, so we tried to come up with something that would work for everybody, and I think this does it." 
A'> a "franr.hisp" player, Dilger still could have signed an offer sheet with another team. but then thr Colts wuuld have had the option of eithPr matching the offer ur receiving two first-round picks as compensation from Dilger's new team. 
"We're very happy to have Ken Dilger on board with us for free agents, meaning they may sign offer sheets with othPr dubs but the Colts have one week lo match the offers or receive com­pensation through draft picks. 
Dilger. a former Indiana high school AH-State quarterback at Heritage Hills and a second­round draft pick out of Illinois in 1995, earned about $1.2 million last season. I-lis wife. He~di. is expecting their first child late this month. 
Free. agency creates new rosters 
Associated Press 
The NFL's annual free-agent period starts Friday with the possibility that some of pro football's biggest stars will be on the open market. victims of age, injury or the salary cap. 
That group includes Stove Young, Jerry Rice, Dan Marino, Bruce Smith. Thurman Thomas and Dcion Sanders. who all could be retired or with new tt1ams next season. 
Marino, lhe leading passer in NFL history, took the first step Thursday ·by voiding the last two years of his contra.cl. Marino has indicittPd that ii' he doesn't retire. he'd ptcfer to re-sign with the Dolphins for a redneed salary rather than join another team. 
Smith and Thomas, mean­while, followed Andre HPed into free agency Thursday. breaking Buffalo's last ties to the Super Bowl teams of the l990s. 
"It's a sad day. a very sad day," Smith, 36, told The Associated Press after his rdeasc. I thought I would have finished my career in Buffalo and had an opportunity to go back and win a championship in Buffalo." 
Instead, Smith. Thomas and Heed -none ready to retirn ­
$29.99 
Dozen Roses Delivered 
Also Available: Live Flowering plants and 
South Bend Chocolates Order Now 1 /2 mile north on 933
S~"l.t c-1:--it (_~ ......,,~-sF,:;:i...s ~72-0970 
will test the free agency mar­
ket. 

"The Bills felt squer.zed by 'cap-onomics,"' agent Leigh Steinberg, who represents Smith and Thomas, said. "Neither of these players want­ed to leave. ll was their inten­tion. since they both had long and illustrious careers, lo stay." 
Most of the NFL's 31 teams were battling salary-cap prob­lems as the midnight deadline approached. The cap this year is increasing by only $5 million per team -the cost of one good free agent -lo $62 mil­lion. That means even major sb&~ could face the choice or accepting pay cuts. going clse­w here, or. in the cases or Young and Marino. considering 
retirement. 

Young, Hice and Marino are 
thf' most intriguing. 

Steinberg is renegotiating Young's deal with the 49ers. but only to help San rrancisco get under the cap. Tlrn 49ers wen• $13 million over rtt mid­week. Steinberg said Young will probably decide in April whr.ther to retire following a series of concussions, stay with San Francisco, or to ask for his release. 
Rice, who interests Washington and Dallas among others. wants to play next sea­son but might be released for cap reasons or at his own request. 
Sanders, on the other hand. already wants out of Dallas, which in any case would release him June 1 to make cap room. llc's due to make more than $12 million next season. 
On Thursday, the New England Patriots saved some money by waiving tight end Ben Coatf~S and signing Lawyer Milloy to a seven-year. $35 mil­lion contract. 
Tim Brown passed on free agency and signed with the Oakland Kaiders Terms wcren't disclosed. 
Denver cleared some cap room by cutting defensive ends ,\lfred Williams and Neil Smith. two veteran members of their two Super Bowl winners. Smith was due to make $2.5 million and Williams $1.(1 million. 
TUESDAY 
FEB.15 •7:30 P.M 

SAINTMARY'S COLLEGE LITTLE THEATRE 
WHISTLE PIGS 
POPULAR LOCAL R & B, JAZZ, AND ROCK BAND FOR TICKITINFORMATION CONTACT 284-~ L "6 
THE.SAINT MARYS BOX OFFICE ~~ 



'·. HOT SPOTS/HOT ·DEALSt .. ,, Cocoa Beach $180 RT London $336 RT Lo~~Angeles $282 RT South Beach $180 RT Paris $383 RT San Francisco $282 RT 


. -----­

San _!)_ie-g_o___________ $282 RT Rome $464 RT Las Veg-a_s_______ $314 R! Cancun $500 RT 
Major Scheduled Airlines. 
~"\,,," GR£.AT ONE WAY· FARES· ,.;!'% 
Honolulu $644 RT Overnight Ticket Delivery Available_
:,:.,. : , ' AVAH: AB L &.!, , -. San Juan $466 RT Choose Your Own Flights.
South Padre Island $224 RT
Special Hotel and Car Rental Rates, too. 
Book your Discount Travel at: 
cheaptickets.com 
or call 888-988-8408 
PHONE RESERVATIONS 


Travel Stores; New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Seattle and Honolulu
Mon -Fri 8am to 2am • Sat -Sun 8am to 11 pm 

Airfares are not guaranteed until ticketed. Fares may be non-refundable and may have an advance purchase. Fares do not include $3-$12 airport passenger facility charges where applicable and tax segment fee ~f $2.50 per takeofl/(anding; fares to Alaska and Hawaii do not include departure taxes up to $fl; international taxes. fees. and surcharges up to $95. Fares are subject to: change, holiday or seasonal supplements; blackout dates, ava1lab1hty and other restrictions. 

_.,.______ 
.. 

Fridav, February 11, 2000 ]'he Observer . SPORTS page 23 
tenths of a second to 25.73 sec­Lane Herrington low<'red that onds in the morning, was mark by over two seconds, enough to earn her a place in updating the record books to 1 the consolation finals. Stepping minute, 43.95 seconds. up agaiu. Sullivan broke her "Breaking a 200 freestyle own record, cutting it to 2:i.60 record by two seconds is and an eighth place ornrall fin­unheard of," said athletic ish. director Lyn Kachmarik. "This 
"'l just · wanted to "Breaking a 200 freestyle 
take con­record by two seconds is trol of' that 
unheard o': this is 
r a c c . '1• Sullivan unbelievable. " s;iirl. "I 
w us n 'l 

Lyn Kachmarik
focused on 

Saint Mary's Athletic Director
my com­
petitors. I trv to fo!'.us 

is unheliev­able." The 400 med­ley rnlay tPam 
of Michelle s a m r e t a . Herrington, Lesneskie and Clavton also rewrote the books, resetting their own 
on myself, on my race. I just record bv more than six sec­wahted to give it all I [could.]" onds. ­
Sull.ivan also anchored the Aware they had to edge Alma 200 medley relay team that College to finish fourth for day cracked a 15-ycar-old record one, the record wasn't oven a Sl't by Ral'f'erty, Pancrantz, consideration. Advancing past Murtaugh and l3yrne11 oin Alma and threatening February or 1985. The r~1~11i;I. Kalam~;wo College by less than set during tlw team's champi­a s.eic,1:rnd·, ·the team posted a onship season, was the oldest surprising drop from their record left on the Saint Mary's record posted in late January. board. The team of Sullivan, "I didn't expect that," said Clayton, Alicia Lesneskie and Hildebrandt. "They broke their 
own record by six seconds ­
Swimming 
continued from page 28 
playing to our advantage. Bul ,ve'n• so happy we're fourth right novv ... I'm going to take a picture of that scoreboard and mount it un th(" wall. This makes a huge sLatement." 
With Thursdav·s ev<rnts IJ!'hind Lh<'Ill, day ,;11t•'s pPrfnr­ma1ices have s11t a precedent that success is to be cxpcr.ti~d in this rnel~t. Rernrrl breaking performances proved to be Lhe rulC' rat)wr lhan the exr·epl.ion. and the team has yet to attack the evnms that rncurd brnaking pPrt'ormances were 1~xpected in. 
''They've sc1m what they can do. a·nd it's contagious," 11 ilcfobrnml l said. "There is 110 slopping this team." 
Colhrnn Sullivan SC't the par.:e l'or tlrn mcBt 1rnrly in the day, wlrnn. in her first individual event. she broke Danielle Clayton's 1lJ<JlJ 50 fnrnslyle record. Sullivan's mark. which uudt·!rcut Clayton's by two that's amazing. I knew that everyone was going fast, but l didn't realim thev broke it." 
20th Centucyt. · · 
Individual p·erformances were also strong, with Olivia Smith securing a sixth place 
finish in the 500 freestyle, fol­
lowed by Lesneskie's 11th 
place finish. Freshman Lauren 
Dance Retro 
Friday and Saturday, 
Smith finished 11th in the 200 February 18 & 19 at 8pm individual medley, and Clayton earned 11th in the 50 freestyle.
Sunday, 
The Belles will return to February 20 at 2:30 pm .. · Rolfs Aquatic Center tomorrow morning, to defend their fourth 
<>·••«-.•,.. 

place position and potentially
Saint Mary's College 
challenge more records.Olaughlin Auditorium "They are just mentally
s 

"" there," Hildebrandt said. "It's going to be awesome."
for ticket infonnation contact the Saint Mary's 
Sullivan 
continued from page 28 
guidance, Sul.livan began to realize that she could chal­lenge what she had done before -and supercede it. 
"She's a very hard worker," Hildebrandt said. "I knew right away that she could beat all of her previous records." 
Sullivan did beat all of her previous records Thursday night, engraving her place in Saint Mary's swimming histo­ry by setting the 50 freestyle record twice, and anchoring the 200 freestyle relay that cracked the oldest record left on the record board. 
Hildebrandt was visibly moved on the side of the deck, glancing at her watch and up at the scoreboard for confirmation, holding in tears of prido. 
"It brought tears to my eyes," she said. "Everything about her race was perfect ­her start, her turn, her stroke. I was watching in so much anticipation that I didn't even want to look at the board, because I didn't want to he disappointed. The swim was so perfect ... she deserves this so much." 
But Sullivan, who prefers middle distance events, had no idea she had set the record. 
"I just wanted to give it all I could," she said. "In the 50, there's really no time to think. I was just looking for­ward, thinking, 'I own this lane.' I knew that I was going to swim fast." 
But she was unaware of just how fast she would swim. 
"I don't train for the 50, so this was a pleasant surprise," she said. "l didn't even know I'd broken it until I walked around [to Gretchen]." 

Sullivan's role has been one of silent ne!'.essity throughout the season, as the junior has the ability to pull out a tight win in critical situations. As the season progressed, Hildebrandt watched the· woman who came to her uncertain mature into some­one who played an integral role on the team. 
"In her lane, she is the motivator." Hildebrandt·said. "She works hard. and they have fun. She is someone I look to for leadership both in and out of the pool ... she is an excellent role model." 
Her newfound confidence was based in her mental training. an aspect of swim­ming she had never consid­ered before, Sullivan said. 
"I had never trained men­tally before," Sullivan admit­ted. "Since I've gotten back from Ireland, I've had a much more laid back attitude towards the sport. Under Gretchen, l've also learned to he mentally tough, and that mental toughness matters." 
Mental focus will surely come into play for Sullivan, who still has the 100 and 200 freestyle events on her schedule for this weekend. But as far as she's con­cerned, for now, she just wants to take it easy. 
'Tm just trying to have fun, and enjoy swimming because I know one day I'm going to miss it," she said. "As far as breaking records. I hope we're surprising some people -maybe scaring some peo­ple. I'm excited for tomorrow -everyone shocked them­selves today." 
Especially Sullivan. 
Saturday, February 12th at the-Center for Social Concerns 
3:00 p.m. 
Gang members from Chicago's Cabrini Green will talk about their experiences and answer your questions. 
Brother Bill and Brother Jim from Brothers and Sisters of Love, a 16-year-old gang ministry, will also be on hand for this conversation about life on the streets of Chicago. Call the CSC with questions: 631-5293. 
This event is part of an occassional series, 
"Violence-Free in the Jubilee: Building Peace in 2000" 
-
-
... 
('
. ' 



-
• 
I 
i I I I 
I 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 11, 2000 
top l'ive in the nalion ­Syracuse and Michigan State. 
Hoops 

"'v\'e need to make sure we 
continued from page 28  get good shots," Doherty said. "That will help us, not only in  
lar performance. Murphy per• sonally showed the Huskies that their guard Khalid El-Amin is by no means assured the sta· tus of Big East Player of the Year.  field guul percentage, but keep­ing them from running the break. We noed to get back in transition, and be very active in our zone and box out." Keeping turnovers at a mini­ 
El-Amin ranks firth  in tlH1  m um  could prove crucial for  
conference in scoring with 17.5 points per game, but Murphy leads the league in two cate­gories with his 23.2 points per outing and 10.9 rebounds. "We've got to contain Khalid El-Amin from scoring and exe­cute our offonsA." Murphy said. Junior guard Albert Mouring and senior forward Kevin  the Irish, who have struggled in that area. "We've got to take caro of tho ball," lngelsby said. "We know that we can go out and play with onA of the top teams in the country in Connecticut." Chalking up a win has depended most strongly on two factors for the Irish this season  
Freeman both average in dou­ble digils !'or Connecticut. For 1\Jotre Dame. sophomore forward David Graves and  -borne court advantage and Murphy's scoring output. With the crowds coming out in l'orre to homo games. the  
freshman guard Matt Carroll each average more than 10 points per game. Notre Dame is looking to rebound from disappointing losses at Pittsburgh and Villanova.  .Jovce Center has turned into a to(1gh arena !"or opponents. The Irish have taken full advantage of th(• home court support, holding a 12-2 record at the JACC. Their play on the road has been unprcdictablu, howev­ 
"We just hav•' tn keep our focus and keep lo our game plan," Murphy said. ·•we·ve gotten awny from our game plan Uw pasl couple of games." Doherly elaborated on Irish troubles of late.  er. They sit at 2-8 away from home. with the two rond victo­ries coming against tlw most formidable opponents in UConn and Ohio State. "I don'L Lhink il's jitters on thH road," Doherty said. "It's  
"We needed to ge_t our cage shook up a little bit," he said. "Maybe we started feeling too sure of ourselves. rm going to try to deliver a bit of a wake-up call in practice." It will take an inspired and error-free performance to deliver a second loss to  more or the energy we get from the home crowd that we obvi­ously don't get on the road. You have to create that for you~self on the road, and we haven't been able to do that." In all but one of Notre Dame's losses this season. opponents held Murphy below his scoring  
Connecticut. Connecticut has  average.  
only lost three times since falling to Notre Dame, with two of' the three defeats coming at the hands of foes ranked in the  "I think it's an important fig­ure, but not a crucial figurn." Doherty said. "Other guys need to step up at times.  
JOHN DAIL YfThe Observer  
Sophomore Troy Murphy moves past a West Virginia defender in a recent game. Murphy leads  
the Irish host defending national champion Connecticut Saturday at 12 p.m.  

Your 
children 
are a real 
credit 
to you.
$500 each 
your federal income tax, for each qualifying child under 17. Who qualifies? See your I 999 tax booklet. Or check the IRS Web site: www.irs.gov 

I WJJJ.lEj 
Ftillav vs. Maryland Iii/Sat vs. Nebrask-O 
m Salllnla1 vs. #13 Connec 
M vs. Ohio State 2:00• women'sBaskBlllall vs. St. John's lf011m TenlliS Sa vs. Illinois fl:OOpm 
l I 
Friday, February 11, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
,.. 

MEN'S TENNIS 
Kentucky upset encourages Notre Dame for OSU game 
By RACHEL BIBER 
Sports Writer 
Af'lPr posting a hugP win ovPr l8tl1-rankl'd Kentuckv on Tunsday, the 38th-ranked Irish look to keep Lheir hot streak alive. and improvP upon tlH'ir 3-2 rpcord wlrnn they meet 58th­r an kn d Ohio State t h i s Saturdav at th<· fjck Tennis Pa\'ilion. 
T h e recent win over KPnturkv marked tlrn biggest upsf~t by Notre Dame since the 1997 Irish squad. then ranked 29th. upendr.d eighth­ranked Duke 4-3. 

However. after the big win, the Irish are being careful not ­to take Ohio State lightly. 
"W(\ are pretty concerned about Ohio Statr brcause they arc undel'eated," NoLre Dame coach 13ob Bayliss said. "They are prr,tty solid l'rom top to bot­
tom." 
Ohio State has yet to encounter rough terrain this season. blowing by former numbfir 51 Soulb Alabama. TolP-du. Bowling Green and llobert Morris. 
Al'ter posting wins, the Buckeyes received attention by being granted a national rank­ing l'or the first time in at least 
l'our years. 
Chris Porter, ranked No. 62, will lead the Buckeyes into Saturday's match. and will most .likely t'ace .Irish captain and .\II-American Hyan Sachirn in the top singles battle. 

Including the recent win over Kentucky's ninth-ranked Carlos Drada, 14th-ranked Sachire has put together an impressive string of victories and should pose an o!Jstade for Porter. 
The rest of the Irish lineup will prosurnably remain the same as in the previous match. barring the return of injured 56th-ranked junior and l':o. 2 singles player Matt Daly, who has hPen hampered by a shoul­der injury. 
Freshman Brain Farrell stepped up in the No. 6 slot to fill in for 
Daly, and demonstrated his poise and power by clinching the Irish victory over Kentucky in their previous match. 
Sophomore Casey Smith will most likely follow Sachire in the ranks at No. 2 singles. followed by sophomores Javier Taborga, Aaron Talarico and Andrew S o u t. h Alabama, the No. 51 team in the countrv, but this match will be a whole new level of play and we are goi.ng to be on the road as well. This will be by far the toughest test of the season to date." 
The Buckeyes are under the new management of head 

Visit The Observer online at http://observer.nd.edu 
CCragan'g 

Ir!* lm__port Shop
[ 4~~)\.,~ 'fl'1  ~Vi-al-en_t_i~-e'_s_ Special  
'~  14%0FF  
Tl!£~ Stont  Everything  
J_, off Cam.pm  'tit the 14th  
1643.E.liloa Raad  When you  
20.-ltOO  mention  
this ad  

. " 
WOMEN'S 

Laflin. This established squad coach Ty Tucker who brings a stands as a formidable oppo­wealth of tennis knowledge to nent for any team, especially the improving program. He left for a team like Ohio State who Ohio State in 1992 after his has yet to prove they are Junior year to become a profes­
national con­tenders. 

"We are pretty concerned 
"H's going to 

about Ohio State because
be a tough match for us," they are undefeated. OSU's assistant 
They are pretty solid 
coach Dave 

from top to bottom. " 
Schilling said. "We were ab le to play Bob Bayliss well against 
men's tennis coach 

Full Tuition Scholarship 
Through the Navy ROTC Program Scholarships are currently available for sophomore students i one of the following majors: 
Engineering, Mathematics, Computer Science, Physics, Chemistry 
To be eligible, a student must have a cumulative GPA of 3.00 or greater. Also, the student's college transcript must reflect a grade of C or better in all courses attempted. 
Contact Lieutenant David Rowland of the Navy ROTC unit at 631-6061 or by email at Rowland.9@nd.edu. Check out our web page at www.nd.edu/-nrotc for details about our battalion. 
Ohio State program. including freshman Philip Metz. who was ranked 22nd in the United States Tennis· Association national rankings in the 18 and under division. 
The Buckeyes also boast the 
35th-ranked doubles team of Andrew Carlson and Porter, who look to take away the doubles point when they meet the Irish in dual-match play. 
But the Irish's 48th-ranked pair of Taborga and Talarico hopes to alter the Buckeye game plan. Notre Dame proved the importance of gar­nering the doubles point in dual-play. after doing so helped them secure their recent upset. "It is important to stand up to them early," coach Bayliss said. "And let them know who we are and that we are here to play." 

C 
B~BALL GAME 
vs. 
sion al tennis player. and achieved a world ranking of 232. and in 1994 he was nationally ranked No, 35. 
Tucker's arrival has attracted a number of key additions to the 
1

si,.J .HN S 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 12TH 
7:00 P.M. COME CHEER ON THE LADIES!! 
FIRST 200 STUDENTS RECEIVE $4,00 FOOD COUPONS!! 
f

GET YOUR COUPON AT GATE 10 STUDENT ENTRANCE 


¦-¦-S7'UDEN7' AC7'IVI'"rlES OFFICE 
' 
•I 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 11, 2000 
... ========================~==:_-=-=--=--=-=---=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=-=--=--=--=--=--=--=-::.-=-::.-=--=--=--=--=-=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=-::.-=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=-=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=-=--=--=--=--=-­
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Terrapins serve up competition 
By KEVJN BERCHOU Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team won't have to wait much longer to find out exactly where it stands in relation to its competitors. 

-
The Irish womim will take on the tal­ented Maryland Terrapins this after­noon at the Eck Tennis Pavilion in a showdown that 
should serve notice as to exactly how far they have ·come, or perhaps how far they need to go. 
Coming off an easy 9-0 trouncing of Yale, Notre Dame will be provided with a much more daunting test when they take on Maryland this after­noon and attPrnpt lio run its season record tu 4-1. 
"They're very talented," head coach Jay Louderback said. "They're as athletic as any team we'll play all year." 
As always, the Irish will be !ed bv junior All-American Michelle Oasso, wh~1 will play both No. 1 singles and doubles. Dasso played exceptionally well in her last singles match and looks to have recovered from a fall shoulder injury. 
Sophomore Becky Varnum and junior Kelly Zalinski will be relied upon heavily to pick up key points in No. 2 and No. 3 singles, respectively. 
Maryland has been surging lately. easi­ly winning its first three dual meets of' the season. The Terps are young ­almost to a fault. And their lack of expe­rience could play into the hands of the Irish. 
"They haven't had a tough test all year," Louderback said. "With the fresh­men playing in their first big match, that could be a difference." 
The Terps' top two players are extremely talented, yet inexperienced, freshmen. First year player Delia Causevic, a native of Bosnia, will battle Dasso in ~o. 1 singles, while her class­mate Jessica Johnson will take on Zalinski. 
Causevic has been on top of her game lately but she too will be tested as her match with Dasso will be her toughest to 

date. 
With the lri.sh hav­ing sent two doubles teams to the Rolex Indoors last weekend. and the Terps featur­ing Johnson and Causevic as their No. 1 doubles pair, the doubles matches should be intersting. 
Dasso and Varnum will receive a strong challenge from Causevic and Johnson. 
Junior Kimberly Guy and freshman Katie Cunha will play No. 2 doubles in hopes of continuing lheir tine play. 
Maryland, rarely tflsted in thrfle previ­ous victories over Missouri. West Virginia and Georgetown, faces a diflicult test in meet­ing 011 Notre Dame's home court. 
Since beating thll Washington Huskies lust month, the Irish have not taken on a quality opponent, making this match a valid indicator of the squad·s current state. 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish look to improve against Red Storm 
By KERRY SMITH 
Assisrant Spons Editor 
When the time ran off the clock against Pittsburgh Wednesday, the frish were able to put another notch in the win column, but their sloppy play left a mark on the fifth-ranked squad. 
faltering for the l'irst time in con­ference action, the Irish allowed the Panthers hang with them too lung and let the unranked 13-9 squad come too dose lo an upset in the 81­74 contest. 
As thn final stretch uf' the rngular season brings a l'lurry of tough matchups for Irish head coach Muffet McGraw's 20-2 team, tonight's game against Big East rival St. John's may just be what Notre Dame need to gP.t back un track. 
Defending an undefeated confer­ence record and looking to increase an already record-breaking 16-game winning streak, the Irish play host to tho Red Storm in tho teams' second meeting this season. 
"I don't think we'll have the same performance against St. John's," said Irish center Huth Riley. "We loamed a lot from our game Wednesday night. You nP.ver want to say that playing ba<l is a good thing, but there is a lot we can take from that game." 
The Irish are all too aware NCAA that the Big Eusi and tournaments arc looming and recognize tho importance of staying on top. 
McGraw will look for more consis­tent play from her starters in the lane and an improved effort from the bench against St. John's. The Irish have struggled recently getting the ball to the post. 
"We've been working in practice now for woeks on throwing the ball high," said M~rnw. "It's not that difficult. We continuallv throw it to tho defender. We'll h·avc to keep working on that." 
Riley scored 19 points in Wednesday's game, but didn't play a major role on offense until midway through the second half. 
Riley knows Urnt she and her team­mates will have to stay focused to ensure a win over St. John's. 

"A lot of the players on the team wcren 't ready to play on Wednesday," said Riley. "Each time you play a team twice it's harder to beat that team a second time. ft's a great opportunity for St. John's to f'.ome here and gain some respect in the polls because we are ranked fifth." 
When the Irish traveled to New York in January for the teams' first game, they handed the Red Storm a crushing 69-49 loss. Guard Danielle Green teamed up with Riley to lead the Irish with 16 points apiece. 
The Red Storm's Latasha Thompson scored a game-high 20 points and has continued to lead the St. John's squad in their three games since last matching up with the Irish. 
The Red Storm, at 8-13, has won only three conference games this season. The unranked squad is com­ing off an overtime loss to Syracuse Wednesday. 
The Irish have never lost to the Hect Storm, holding a 7-0 advantage in the series. 
Work for the 

sports  TRY  OUR  NEW  
dept.  ITALIAN FOR  (HICK 1 N CRISP ONLY 9 9 ¢ I  
Call  ( LET'S  JUST  SAY  THE  EXCHANGE  RATE  

631­4543 
Daytona..Beach Resort 
m (ONIUIN(I mm 


V1,1I 11, &l www.da7lo11beachre.arl.coa or www.d1scou11lbruh.co11 
LEADERS 
Full-time college student or graduate. Starting salary, $32,000. Post offer mental and physical screening. 

99¢ 
Marine Officer Programs Call toll free for an interview 1-877-299-9397 www.MarineOfficer.com 

IS IN YOUR FAVOR.) 

THE NEW ITALIAN CHICK'N CRISP AT BURGER KING? 
You don't have to travel far to enjoy a little taste of Italy. Introducing the delicious Italian Chick'n Cnsp sandwich at BURGER KING"' restaurants. Tender, juicy, all-white-meat chicken topped with mozzarella cheese and zesty marinara sauce. Right now just 99CZ:. 
The Huddle • Lafortune Student Center 
Price and porlicipation may vary 



J I , 


..
.. 

FriJay, February I 1, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 27 

FOURTH AND INCHES 
131>.\,. 'WE NEED 1311.li. WHEKE C,._N '•J£ 6Ef 
LO-rs or= FOOO ReAL C:..\-1,£1\1"~ 
Fox TROT 
IT DoES Look A THIS IS THE LAST LOT BETTER TIME. WE'RE REl'IITtN& THIS WAY. AN IMAX MOVIE. 
I / 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 37 Alfredo, in "La 66 Bacon piece 1 Way out Traviata" 67 Bank 5 Chick_, who .38 ··11 was nice 68 St. _(fine 
played "Stompin' getting beach locale) at the Savoy" acquainted" 69 Regard 9 1988 Grand 42 Geoffrey ot 70 RegardsSlam winner fashion 13 Big field 43 Comical piece 
DOWN 

14 Guardians of 44 Put away the 1 Game played the gates of dishes standing upOlympus 45 New 2 Liner locale 15 King, in Hindi Hampshire's 3 Provide an16 Really mad capital during address18 Faisal l's land the Revolution 4 Put on sale19 Dragon, maybe 47 Professors' degs. 
5 Frying aid 20 Barbers' needs 50 Windmill parts 6 Susan's Emmy­22 Weasel 53 Victorious winning role 23 Swiss city 57 Scandalous 7 Start of a count 24 Ropes, e.g. 61 Chevron's place 8 Contradicts26 like blue chip 62 Parhelic circle 9 Film crewstocks 63 Personal member31 Gossip trainer's 10 Pink34 1951 NL comment 11 Like a 1-Across,Rookie of the 65 Company with a maybeYear reptile logo 

12 On-line newsgroup features 
14 Rain, essentially .,P-uzzl_..e_b_y..,Pe_te_r.... 


21 Academy
founder 23 Not-so-joyful noises 25 Sound studio device 27 Oligarchical group 28 Irish pop singer 29 Smog contributor 30 Sincere 31 Agree 32 Green card issuer 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
TOM KEELEY 
vJ!: OOt-fT "-JM.JT io ~IL.I..-11.\t. Poo9­,111Nc,~ 
BILL AMEND 
33 'This is fu-u-u-un!" 
35 Kind of bug 
36 Record problems 39 White 40 Tick off 41 Like a certain 
one in line 
46 Traveled the Yellowstone River 
48 Allotment 
49 Expressions of contempt Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
A DEPRAVED New WORLD JEHBEAM 
ANO ~16/-IT O\l'E/<-~ IS. W~ JIM G:,crf SIC.k ALL 6Ve~ THE PLALs ... 
For the seniors, a trip to the towers is full of nostalgia. 
HOROSCOPE 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 
DAY: Jennifer Aniston, Sheryl Crow, 
Sidney Sheldon, Burt Reynolds, Eva 
Gabor, Leslie Nielsen, Gene Vmcent, 
Virginia E. Johnson, Lloyd Bentsen, 
TmaLouise 
Happy Birthday: You'll want to 
do it all this year. Get busy and pre­
pare for an upbeat exciting year that 
is sure to bring you the kind of inter­
action and results you're looking for. 
You will want to be in the forefront 
and therefore must be sure to pick up 
any additional skills that will keep 
you ahead of the competition. Your 
numbers: 6, 14, 23, 27, 33, 49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You 
can outsmart others with words 
today. Present your ideas to peers or 
superiors; however, be sure to get 
agreements in writing. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Your best efforts will evolve from 
hard work. Don't let others lead you 
in directions that are not in your best 
interest. Keep your private affairs to 
yourself. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your 
high energy will lead you on short 
trips that will not only bring you 
added knowledge but enjoyment as 
well. Your quick wit will attract new 
lovers. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Confusion at an emotional level will · cause you to make wrong decisions concerning your personal life. Over­indulgent individuals must be 
avoided. 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take. the role of leadership in group or orga­nizational functions. Your ability to initiate new projects and spark 

Birthday Baby: You'll have a strong sense of who you are and what you want out of life. Confident from day one, you will go afterJour dreams and pursue your goals with ease. You are a strong contender an a dominant par­
ticipant throughout your life. 

(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) © 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 
.... 
beam.1 @nd.edu 
EUGENIA LAST 

enthusiasm in others will be an asset. 
00 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take care of your personal papers today. Older individuals may give you a hard time. Try to be patient when dealing with children and seniors. 
00000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Travel 
for business or pleasure will be 
advantageous to your emotional well 
being. Be cautious what you say to 
peers and relatives about your per­
sonal life. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take 
care of money matters and legal 
affairs. Do not lend to or borrow 
money or possessions from friends. 
It is best to be somewhat circumspect 
when dealing with others. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Social activity should be on your agenda. New relationships will develop due to your outgoing na­ture. Be ready for adventure and travel if the opportunity arises. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): It is best to work diligently at impor­tant deadlines in order to accomplish the most Do not get involved in get­rich-quick schemes. 00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You should involve yourself in phys­ical activities that will help you get into shape. You can catch up on over­due correspondence. 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can put money into projects that will enhance your environment. Your ta]. ents will surface to bring recognition at work. Investment opportunities should be considered. 000 
51 Don't guzzle 52 "Family Ties" 
mother 54 Portable home 55 Small egg 56 Diarist of note 57 Place for hands 
58 Cause of low visibility 
59 Tons 
60 Math calculation 
61 What's up? 
64 When D.S.T. ends 

Dodging the Storm 
The Irish women's basketball team hosts Big East rival St. John's tonight. Following a close game against Pittsburgh, tlze lrish look to improve their play. 

PORTS 
page 26 

O
THE 
page 28 BSERVER 

WOMEN'S SWIMMING 

Belles compete in second day of MIM Championships 
• Sullivan exceeds expectations after year-long layoff 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Saint Mary'o Editor 

.. Colleen Sullivan stepped onto · the pool deck in September convinced that she wasn't going to live up to what she used to be. After a year abroad in Ireland. the junior sprinter was looking to return to swimming because she missed it; but after a vear and a half without seriui:is train­ing, she knew that achieving the standards she was usB<l to was close to impossible. "She came in. first day, and said flat out that she didn't know if she could do what she had done in high school," said coach Gretchen Hildebrandt, who admitted that she didn't know what to immediatelv expect from Sullivan. · Sullivan wasn't sure what she could expect from herself, either. "I was very worried," she said about her return to com­petitive swimming. "I had got­ten in to do a 500 over the summer, and it killed. I hadn't done anything in the water in a year and a half. It definitely affected my ronfi­dence." So easing back into the sport, Sullivan trailed in her lane, unsure of what her capabilities would allow her to do. "As far as training, at the beginning part of the season, I'd volunteer to go last in my lane," Sullivan said. "I had lost confidence in my training more than my races. It took me awhile before I could lead the lane." But under Hildebrandt's 
see SULLIVAN/page 23 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 


. Record-breaking performances lead Belles' dominance 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Saint Mary's Editor 
Coach Gretchen Hildebrandt had one wish for her swim­mers leading into the MIAA swimming and diving champi­onships: That they would attack their races. 
Arter Thursday night, attack was no longer the word she could use to describe her swimmers' performancBs. 
It was more like destroy. 
Maybe it was the unexpected fourth place standing the Belles found themselves in at the conclusion of Thursday's finals. Maybe it was the fact that Saint Mary's swimmers dropped more time than any other team in the conference championship. Or maybe it was the four record-breaking performances the athletes posted throughout the course of the day that led Hildebrandt to believe that maybe her high expectations for the wBekend just weren't high enough. 
"This is what I dream of," said Hildebrandt, first-year coach for the Belles. "You can never guarantee anything, but this -this kind of day -this is what you hope for." 
Rebounding from a sixth place MIAA finish in 1999, the Belles sought to advance with the home court advantage in their corner in 2000. After tal­lying dual meet scores and analyzing expected perfor­mances, a fifth-place finish for the weekend was not an unreasonable goal. But when Thursday's tallies put the team in fourth place ahead of Alma, Albion, and Olivet Colleges after day one, the team admit­ted that it might be time to rBevaluate that goal. 
"lt's hard to say if we're going to stay here," 
Hildebrandt said. "Every sin­gle day is different, and we don't have anyonB in the 400 individual medley tomorrow, which will hurt us. But we will have fantastic performances tomorrow." 
Regardless, Saint Mary's rise to fourth place does make Alma and Albion Colleges, both of which defeated the Belles in regular season com­petition, take this team a littlB more seriously. 
"This shows a couple of teams that we are really tough. They may not be tapered as well, and that's 
see SWIMMING/page 23 

Irish seek season's second win over Connecticut 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Assiscam Sports Editor 
The Irish are within striking distance of going 2-2 against the defending national r,hampi­on, a feat never before accom­plished by a men's basketball team at Notre Dame. 
"We're going to try," first year head coach Matt Doherty said. "I think the crowd will definitely help us." 

SPORTS  
ATA  
r I l  GLANCE  

Notre Dame (14-10, 5-5 Big East) scored a huge upset victo­ry in knocking off conference rival Connecticut 7 5-70 Jan. 5. 
"When our kids feel threat­ened, they really bear down and play hard and execute," Doherty said. "Maybe it's the fear factor." 
That win was Notre DamB's second ol' the season over a team that danced its way to the Final Four last year, adding UConn { 17 -5, 6-3) to Ohio State 
Swimming/Divinge MIAA Championship Finals Today, 6:30 p.m. 
• 
Track and field at Buder lnvirarional Friday-Saturday 
on the list of tBams taken down by Notre Dame. 
"We just get up for those games," snphomore star for­ward Troy Murphy said. "We relish the fact that a top-ranked t1>am like Connecticut can come into our cuurl. We look forward to playing the teams like Connecticut, Syracuse, St. John's." 
The Cinderalla-esque win caused Irish fans and enemies alike to realize this squad is for 
-
vs. Maryland Today, S p.m.
1'J 
vs, Nebraska-Omaha ~ Today, 7:05 p.m. 
real. It pumped up Irish fans, drawing in hordes of people to the Joyce Center. This Saturdav's Notre Dame-UConn rematch sold out just a week after the first contest between the two teams, leaving thosB without tickets out in the cold, a rare occurrence during recent years of mediocrity in Notre Dame basketball. 
"We've been playing pretty well," junior point guard Martin lngelsby said, "and I think 
vs. Connecticut ~ Saturday, 12 p.m. 
ac Defiance College
sre Saturday, 3 p.m. 
everyone around Notre Dame is getting more excited about bas­ketball." 
The Irish stunned the Huskies by beating them earlier in the season, handing the Huskies their second defeat of the sea­son and the first on their home court. 
Murphy opened their eyes with 33 points and 16 rebounds. With that spectacu­
sec HOOPS/page 24 
vs. St. John's9 Saturday, 7 p.m. 




