
--·-----•-------·------------­
Clash over the 'Titans' 
Fiscal face-off 
Film critics Matt Caccamo and Jude Seymour 

Thursday
The College Democrats and College Republicans 
offer conflicting views on the new movie 
square off this week on the role of campaign 
"Remembering the Titans." 
finance reform in the presidential election. 
OCTOBERS, 
Scene . page 16 
Viewpoint . page 15 

2000 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIV NO. 33 

STUDENT SENATE 

Resolutions address students' needs 
. Senators devise meal packages, Lafortune mailbox 
By LAURA ROMPF 
Assistanr News Editor 
Two resolutions passed by the student senate will bring tangible benefits to students, Zahm senator Ryan Becker said Wednesday night. 
"The goal of the residence life committee this semester is to' bring services to the stu­d en ts that they can see," Becker said. "Students asked for both of these resolutions on the floor tonight and we are lucky to be able to give it to them today." 
The first resolution provides discounted meal packages available for student pur­chase. 
"There was an expressed need for these. Students will be able to buy a package at the beginning of the semester and use them for friends who come to the dining hall," Becker said. "You can use a meal for one friend on one weekend, and then use anoth­
er meal for someone else the next weekend." 
Kevin Berchou, Sorin llall senator, said the dining halls actually have discount meal packages now. but they require you buy nine meals fur the entire weekend. 
"It ends up costing mo.re because people do not eat breakfast. lunch and dinner in the dining hall all three days. We thought students needed another option." 
Becker said Reggie Kalili, general manager of the dining halls. will make the final deci­sions on the packages, and they should be available soon. 
The second resolution passed by student senate will put a mailbox in La Fortune. 
"This idea actually came out of HPC [Hall President's Council], but we thought it was a good idea, and we're glad we could get it done pret­ty quickly," Becker said. "There used to a mailbox out­side, but it was taken away because of vandalism. The new one will be actually inside the Lafortune complex." 
Mary Edgington, faculty advisor to the senate, said she 
see SENATE/page 4 

Zahm Hall senator Ryan Becker (right) and Sorin Hall senator Kevin Berchou inform other senators Wednesday night of plans to secure dining hall meal discounts for students as well as a mailbox in the Lafortune Student Center. 

HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Safety tops agenda at SMC forum 
By AMY.GREENE 
News Writer 

The Saint Mary's community expressed safety concerns at a forum Wednsday night following two reports of sexual assault on campus this year. 
"There have been a lot of e-mails sent out about the assaults and I think it's a good time to find the truth and learn about secu­rity procedures," said senior Julie Frishkorn. · 
Security representatives were present, including the Director of Security, Richard Chlebek. 
"We have no control over rumors," he said. "The incidents allegedly occurred on campus. We provide information to alert students, then the rumors start filtering." 
Chlebek explained the procedure for deal­ing with an on-campus assault. 
"Normally, we see that the student receives treatment. The Saint Joe's Police Department is notified for investigation, unless the student advises against it. We hope that she will identify the attacker, however," Chlebek said. 
When an incident is reported security dis­tributes "Crime Alert" fliers to the residence 
see SECURITY/page 6 
Voters thought Al Gore had a stronger performance in the first presidential debate than George W. Bush, according to instant polls. Here are selected results C>f debate watchers. 
CBS News poll 
Who won the debate? 
Bush-Bll!IIIIIBl•¦ 42% 
Gore TTffffl:'!T!l!!f'!ftB c;6% 
Conducted Oct. 3 with 812 registered voters 
CNN/USA Today/Gallup poll 
Who did the best job in the debate? 
Bush ••••••m41% Gore ~-48% 
Conducted Oct. 3 with 435 registered voters 
NBC News poll 
Overall, which candidate do you think did a betterJob ,n the debate? 
Bush•••••¦ 36% 
GorE' lt!IIPIIII:~ 46% Both ~13% 
equally Conducted Oct. 3 with 563 registered voters 
ABC News poll 
Who won? 
Bush••••••39% Gore. i.\l.lllltlillli,\k-42% Tie ~13% 
Conducted Oct. 3 with 491 registered voters 
Note: The polls have error margins of plus or minus 4-5 percentage points. When the results do not total 100 percent, the remaining either didn't know, refused to answer or said "neither." 

NEWS ANALYSIS 

Professors question merit of polling 
isn't," said Christina paign according to the "People can either say:
By MARIBEL MOREY 
Wolbrecht, assistant profes­results. One, someone is so far 
News Writer 
sor of government. "Both Gore and Bush go on behind I shouldn't waste my In addition to the media Rosie and Oprah to fashion vote on him. Or two, I live in Seconds after the presi­polls, national candidates appeal to a state dential debate concluded usually conduct their own women and where can­Tuesday night, the news private polls to determine stay at home "In this day and age, didate Xis media conducted polls what states, issues and peo-mothers," said polls can provide good way ahead, online, pIe to Benjamin so why
indicators of where 
on the 
target. Radcliff. asso­should telephone "They ciate p-rofessor support is and isn't." vote for and in try to of government. candidate person -b re a k Polls, howev­Y?" said
Christina Wolbrecht 
a I I down the er, can he dif­Wolbrecht.
government professor
attempt­e I c c -ficult to inter­Voters can ing to torate to pret, because be affected predict identifi­they use varying techniques when the candidate·they the out-a b I e for asking questions and tar­support are behind in the come of Bush Gore groups get different groups. polls. t h i s such as "They can target likely With Nader trailing Bush year's election. married couples and senior voters or registered voters," and Gore with 4 percent of 
CBS News, ABC News, citizens because it's hard to said Radcliff. the votes in the polls con­CBS-New York Times and do something about their While polls of registered ducted online by Lake, Snell, CNN-USA Today-Gallop polls general poll numbers," said voters cover a broader pool Perry & Associates in mid­rushed to record public Wolbrecht. of Americans, polls of likely September. some voters opinion. These polls can be Polls also reach voters that voters tend to be more accu­might be dissuaded from helpful in judging the status might otherwise be over­rate because there is a bet­voting for him. of the race, according to looked in a national cam­ter chance these voters will Wolbrecht finds it hard to Notre Dame government paign. Pollsters seek to show cast ballots in November. believe that voters would professors. the possible voiing trend of No matter what the polls base their decisions on poll 
"In this day and age, polls a specific group, such as say, both professors are results, but agrees that can provide good indicators stay-at-home moms, and wary of basing voting deci­of where support is and candidates angle their cam-sions on public opinion. see POLLS/page 4 
.---------------------------------------------------------------:-.... 
page 2 Wednesday, October 5, 2000
The Observer . INSIDE 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Breathe in, breathe out 
I am sitting here and beginning to panic. I have a microbiology test next week that I know little about. I have a cancer biology take home test due Friday that isn't done. I have hardly any sto­ries for next week's Observer planned and ev(m fewer writers to write them. 
My senior comp, my ticket 
to graduation, is nowhere 
near completion let alone 
the brilliance the committee 
expects. I don't even want to 
think about medical school. 
My world is ollicially com­
ing to an end. 
I think all of us have had 
this feeling. A paper that we 
haven't started is due in two 
hours, or the playoffs are 
riding on this shot in the 
game. The set is not finished 
for the play that opens 
tomorrow. We have all been 
convinced our respective 
worlds are coming to an end right now. 
What I need right now and, thankfully, what I got, is a little perspective. I got an e-mail from my grandparents to just say hello. What the e­mail did was remind me that my grandpa has just finished his treatment for prostate cancer and. in all likelihood, is cancer free. 
That gave me perspective. 
The world will go on if! don't ace my biology homework. The Observer will still publish next week and the writers will come through. The most important thing is not my senior comp right now. 
My small world with the consequences that seem so traumatic is not the center of the uni­verse. The sun will rise even if" I fail my test and the world will turn no matter what any of us do in our cla.sses tomorrow. 
The people in our lives are what really matter, something I all too often forget. The conse­quences that come with the relationships we have with those people are what count. 
Unfortunately, the pace of college life and senior year. in particular, often causes us to focus on the million little things necessary for graduation and forget the big things we came here for. In 25 years, I will not remember whether a story about a lecture was written or not, or whether I got an A or a B on a test. I will remember the time I spent with my family and friends however. 
Unfortunately, I cannot skip the rest of my classes, avoid all the interviews for medical school and simply refuse to write the papers I need for graduation. All of those things are part of a "big thing learning" I came here for. 
What I need to do, however, is keep the per­spective I have right now. I need to remember the feeling I got in the pit of my stomach when I hear my grandpa was diagnosed with cancer. More importantly, I need to remember the feel­ing I got when I learned he was going to be OK. 
I need to tell my friends that they are wonder­ful and take the time to hear what they are doing. I need to call my parents and family and tell them that they are the reason I am who I am and hear how they arc doing. 
In a perfect world, I would gel all of the little things done exactly right without losing sight of what the big things really are. I don't know about everyone else, but I am not even close to perfect. So, I'll just keep my lingers crossed that I don't forget too many of the little things and I never lose the perspective I have right _now. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Jason McFarley Matt Nania Kelly Hager Graphics Courtney Boyle Dana Mangnuson 
Sports Production 
Lauren Conti Jcff Bahruzak Viewpoint Andrew Soukup Pacrick Otlcwski Lab Tech Ernesto Lacayo 
The Obstrver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Morulay thiough Friday cxccp, during exant and vacation pcriod.s. The Observer ua member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS  
Thursday  Friday  Saturday  Sunday  
. Forum: "U.S. Military  . Concert: Notre Dame  . Performance: "Good  . Concert: Maria  
Spending and Catholic  Glee Club Reunion Concert;  Night Desdemona (Good  Stablein, piano; 2 p.m.;  
Social Teaching;" 8 p.m.;  8 p.m.; Stepan Center: tick- morning Juliet)": 7:30  Annenburg Auditorium,  
102 DeBartolo  ets available at Lafortune  p.m.; Washington Hall  The Snite  
. Lecture: "Globalization  . Pep Rally: Notre Dame  . Film: "All about my  . Performance: "Good  
and its Critics," Raimo  vs. Standford; 6:30 p.m.;  mother;" 9 p.m.; Snite  Night Desdemona (Good  
Vayrynn; 12:30 p.m.; C-103  Joyce Center, co-hosted  Museum of Art  morning Juliet)"; 7:30  
Hcsburgh Center  with Saint Mary's  p.m.; Washington Hall  

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
UMass students find voice in debate 
HOSTON BU Unite, a coalition of different 
Presidential frontrunners weren't student activist groups on campus, the only ones to voice their plat­
organized a handful of students, forms Tuesday night. As George including the BU Greens, to con­Bush and Al Gore took to the stage verge on UMass-Boston. Tuesday night at the University of "We hold our candidates to a high Massachusetts at Boston's Clark enough standard to say 'come see Athletic Center, students took to the what we're all out there for,"' said streets. junior Crystal Ponzio, representing 
Joining over 4,000 protesters sur­the National Zapatista Student rounding the streets of the UMass­Alliance at the protest. "Even if it's Bos ton campus Tuesday night, like a hundred different things issue-minded college students -we're protesting for, they need to whose concerns spanned the gamut know why we're out there and why of causes from affordable housing to a difference," said sophomore Ken there are so many people dis­Zapatista repression, made up more Hermann. pleased." than half of the boisterous crowd. Billed as a "street festival demon­Chanting, "Whose streets? Our 
"I think it's important for students stration" by protest organizers, the streets!," and toting placards, the to attend these debates because it majority of student organizers uti­crowd jeered police and eventually shows that they're actually interest­lized nonviolent protest Tuesday stormed police barriers when the ed in politics and they want to make night. debate ended. 
MICHIGAN STATE  NORTHWESTERN  
Forum centers on African-Americans  Students find Oprah's class beneficial  
EAST LANSING Human biology junior Cynthera McNeil!, who's black, said she believes Michigan State University's Department of Police and Public Safety (DPPS) doesn't deal with the minority student community effectively when conflicts arise. "I've seen them stand bac'k and watch fights escalate." Microbiology senior Osie Gaines, a member of the Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity Inc. and the National Pan-hellenic Council president, said he's heard complaints against MSU police, and has said it's time to take action. "I've been here since 1996, and I've seen a disturbing trend since coming here of African Americans not liking the way that DPPS has been handling things," he said. So Gaines, along with several student groups. will hosted a forum Wednesday to provide students with an opportunity to express concerns with campus police, Gaines said. He said he began his drive to improve relations between MSU police and minority students after Lansing police broke up an incident earlier this month.  EVANSTON, Ill. To enter the classroom for in Oprah Winfrey's class at Northwestern University, students have Lo get past four security guards with wires hanging from their ears. But the students say the class is worth it. "This is just one of those classes," said Shie Saito, a second-year student. "Her words have some kind of impact." Winfrey co­teaches the Dynamics of Leadership class with her long­time boyfriend Stedman Graham. Winfrey and Graham taught the class last year under much of the same secu­rity, media scrutiny and student interest. As part of the security, students are told not to talk to the media about the content of the class. Richard Honack, assistant dean of Kellogg external relations. said the 110-person class is one of the most competitive to register for in all of Kellogg. James Lynch, a second-year Kellogg student, took the class after a Winfrey student from last year rec­ommended it. "I le said it is the one class that had a real impact," Lynch said.  

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South B Bid Fozs:ast: /\cn.llmtrer 'l'am::ast far d,ytirre =rlitims arrlhigh t:alIE@tures 
I 
Thurs~ay Friday! 
i 
Satur1ay 
C 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY
Sund~y 
®,..,,..© D D CJ D CJ . 
High low Shower¦ R¦ln T~¦torm¦ Flurries Snow Ice SUnny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
ia Associ1Jl8d Presti 
Mo~.~J'--ti 

Manta 87 66 Las Vegas 84 60 Por11and 73 46 
Baltimore 71 64 Memphis 88 66 Sacramento 87 55 
Boston 62 56 Milwaukee 50 43 St. Louis 73 66 
Sh<>wMI r.s/orms Rain Aurries Snow Ice SVnny pt Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 56 48 New York 69 60 Tampa 86 73
q_~,~AGQ (f ~ u 
W.r A6/!JIOCUltHi Pr;1u Graphic!JN9t Houston BB 67 Phliadelphia 70 63 Washington DC 75 54 

Thursday, October 5, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC celebrates with pep rally 
By ALICIA ORTIZ 
News Writer 
Blue and white tie-dyed· shirts sporting the phrase "Are You Belle Enough?" cover campus as students cel­ebrate Saint Mary's Pride Week. 
Pride Week. developed last year as an extended celebra­tion of Saint Mary's Pride Day begun in 1997, is intended to celebrate Saint Mary's orien­tation as an independent women's insiituiion. 
One major event of Pride Week was the Pep Rally before the volleyball game last 
N-10 
L'tU\l'Thil\'ol i\Oifl" lbllll' 
night in Angela Athletic Facility. lt was the first pep rally ever held in Angela. 
Other firsts at the pep rally included the appearance of the cheerleading and dance squads -the brainchildren of second-year athletic director Lynn Kachmarik. Kachmarik has been busy buliding up the athletic program at Saint Mary's, and added the two new programs this year. Kachmarik credits these firsts to the increase of Saint Mary's pride. 
"This is the first Saint Mary's dance squad and cheer team," Kachmarik said. "There are not many women's 
colleges with cheerleaders." 
Both teams and the Belle mascots give credit to Kachmarik for her efforts to iI1crease spirit at the college, by supporting them as orgiuazations. 
"We are excited to start this at Saint Mary's, we really appreciate the help of Lynn [Kachmarik] and Gretchen [Hildebrandt]." sophomore dance squad member Adrienne Dorbish said. 
"We hope it brings more people to the basketball games, we also want lo team up with cheerleaders to increase spirit at Saint Mary's," she said. 
E-CoD1n1erce Lecture Series 
Mendoza College of Business 
l'n-,1>011sored l>y the ;\kn<.101.u ( "ullege or l~uo;ine,s & l1u1,://\\\\ \\.1uL1.~du/ ~ 1,;1nattu/mglfq-f,-.1n!nkl•r [>riee\\all•rhuus,:(·1101>0: rs I· oundat1011 
September 1 September 15 September 29 October 6 
October 27 
November3 
November 10 
November 17 
December 1 
Debbie Ballou (Professor of Management, UND). "OveJView of Current E-commerce Issues" 
David Overbeeke (Gen. Manager £-business, OE Aircraft Engines) "Business to Business E-commerce" 
Geoff Robertson (Vice President of-Engineering, mvp.com) "Starting a B2C Company" 
Michael Cullinane (Chief Financial Officer, divine lnterVentures) "How to Value an E-business" 
Rick Spurr (Senior Vice President, Entrust Technologies) "Internet Security Threats and Measures to Deal with Them" 
CoUeen Sullivan (Dir. of Information Systems, Alltel Communications) "Data Warehousing and Mining for Building Business Intelligence" 
Reuben Slone (Vice President of Global E-business, Whirlpool) "Supply Chain Management" 
Cheryl Aetterlck (Manager, PrlcewaterhouseCoopers) "Conducting E-business Assessment" 
Dr. Anatole Gershman (Director, Andersen Consulting) 
"Emerging Trends and Technologies in E-commerce" 
All lectures held from 10:4oam-12:05pm 
Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business Notre Dame facult~·, staffand students arc welcome to attend these presentations 
Students could lose study day in 200 I 
By LAURA ROMPF 
Assistant News Editor 
For the past two years, junior Patrick Brennan has enjoyed having four consecutive study days before a five-day week of stressful finals. Brennan said he was able to prepare himself thoroughly for his tests and also had time to spend with friends before leaving for Christmas break. 
"Finals are the most stressful time of the year_," Brennan said. "I feel we need enou.gh time to prepare." 
However, for the 2001 fall semester, students may no longer have four consecutive 
days of finals. 

2000-2001 Season Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 

oodnight 
(j)~ 
(Good Morning 
;Juliet) 
by Anne-Marie MacDonald 
A comedy of alchemic proportions 
Directed by Wendy Arons 
Wednesday, Oct. 4 ...... 7:30 pm Thursday, Oct. 5 .......... 7:30 pm Friday, Oct. 6 .............. 7:30 pm Saturday, Oct. 7 .......... 7:30 pm Sunday, October 8 ...... 2:30 pm 
Playing at Washington Hall Reserved Seats $9 • Seniors $8 • Students $6 Tickets are available at La Fortune Student Center Ticket Office. For MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631-8128 

study days. 
Because of a rule set by the Academic Council, the school year cannot start before August 
22. If a normal final schedule were use.cl for the 2001 calen­dar, finals would not be com­pleted until December 21. 
Because this date is so close to Christmas, the Academic Council has suggested a new finals week schedule. Classes would end on Tuesday, December 11, 2001 and two study days would follow on Wednesday and Thursday. 
Friday and Saturday would be finals days followed by another study day on Sunday and then three consecutive 

I LOW 

I 
IStudent I IAiriares I 
I Eurailpasses 1· 
f More Than
! f ' 
I Study Abroad J 
I IC:• . ~ . f ~~~!u~t!!~!!!!! IJ 
i ~ i 1 studentuniverse.com 1I ~.2m616 1 
r----------------------------------------------­
Thursday, October 5, 2000
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
voting !for a lagging candi­date).·• said Radcliff.
Polls 
The media, however. con-continued from page I tributes to the emphasis on 
------------these poll results. these polls are a "short-cut "When a candidate is way to learn something ahead, the press concen­about a candidate." trates on that candidate," 
People want their candi-said Radcliff. date to win the elections, The media might also dis­and polls predi,ct who that tract voters from national will be. issues. 
"If someone was asked "If newspapers talk about who they voted for, they the polls, yes. they might get would say they voted for the us away from some discus­winning candidate," said sion of the issues," said Wolbrecht. "They don't Wolbrecht. want Lo say they voted for "And the voters see a horse the loser." race rather than where the 
"Polls demoralize people candidates stand on the and discourage people from issues," she said. 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
would be working with the Post Office to make the final arrangements for the new mailbox. 
In other senate news: 
. 
Brooke Norton, student body vice president, encouraged all senators to attend the Founders Day festival. "All the rides are free," she said. "We are having the carnival rain or shine, so please come out. It is a really great tradition to get started." 

. 
The University affairs committee learned Transfer Orientation will be covered by the University this coming year. The University allotted $6,000 for the event, which will free up funds originally given to Transfer Orientation for other activities with in the student union. 

. 
John Osborn, parliamentarian, informed the senate that there will be a blood drive next Thursday and Friday from 9 


a.m. to 3 p.m. at Rolfs R_ccreation Center. Students should call 631-6100 to register. 
Visit The Observer cnline. http://observer.nd.edu 
Domus plans crime prevention talks 
By MAUREEN SMITHE 
Assistant News Edi tor 
When Notre Dame students Jiving in South Bend for the summer were victims of a string of robberies, Mark Kramer decided to take a proactive response to the situ­ation. 
Kramer, owner of Domus Property Investments, rents more than 30 area houses out to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. In response to the string of robberies, he has organized a personal safe­ty crime prevention meeting for 5 p.m. Thursday at the 600 block of North St. Peter Street. 
"The robberies prompted me to do something," said Kramer.-"I've owned property in the area for 14 years and I've never really had a prob­lem, but this summer we heard of more robberies in the area than ever before. I felt it was reaching epidemic pro­portions." 
The meeting is in conjunc­tion with the South Bend Police Department. Officers from the crime prevention unit and a member from the inves­tigation division will give a presentation and answer questions. 
Corporal Pat Hechlinski said the meeting is crucial not only for those living off campus now, but also for those plan­ning on making the move beyond the protection of the Golden Dome in the future. 
"There's a lot of kids that come to the town from outside the area. The meeting is a refresher to raise everybody's 
awareness." Hechlinski said. "We all know what it takes to be safe, but it is easy to 
overlook  being  alert,"  he  
added.  
Ideally,  Kramer  said  he  

would like to see a strong neighborhood watch program emerge from Thursday night's meeting. 
"All of our students are in connected neighborhoods. We can all work together to make things safe," he said. 
Kramer sent out more than 1,000 flyers for the event to students and area residents, and expects at least 500 peo­ple to attend the hour and a half meeting. 
"Education is the key to safety. We asking neighboring houses to attend so everyone in Sou.th Bend can be safe," Kramer said. 
Pax Christi plans stop at ND 
By TIM LOGAN 
Senior Staff Writer 
A carnival-like atmosphere will prevail on South Quad this afternoon, but it won't be part of the Founder's Day celebra­tion. 
No, the 30-foot inflatable pie charts and costumed Uncle Sam impersonators will be here for a different reason. 
They are part of "Bread Not Stones." a 33-city bus tour raising awareness about mili­
. tary spending and challenging presidential candidates Al Gore and George W. Bush to make the issue a part of the national debate. 
Today's event is sponsored by Pax Christi, Notre Dame and the Center for Social Concerns. The nationwide bus trip is organized by the nation­al Pax Christi organization. 
It began in March, when Pax Christi released a statement signed by 34 Catholic bishops calling for a "national Catholic campaign of prayer, study and action to end exorbitant mili­tary spending." The statement calls the federal budget a "moral document," which should reflect our society's pri­orities. The current emphasis on military spending gives a disappointing reflection of those priorities, and comes at the expense of needed social 

~ 
,::::, N 
LOW
..c:: 
0
.So? 
C: m 
::::,::::, 
:':!' £ 
<ii' 
::::, 
::::,
student 'Tl 
OJ C: Cl. 0> 
"C 
(D 
~ 
"O 
iil 
<O 
C:
Airfares 0> < 
a, 
CD 
0> 
::::, 
<O 
~ 
7"
Euraiipasses
C: 
Q) 0, 
~ 
C: 
0 % More Than 
(I) 
100 Departure Cities 
.!.l 
z 
-~ 
8'.. 
Study Abroad 
ec:•. 
student UnlY8rS8 § 
IT'S YOUR WORLD. EXPLORE IT 
programs, Pax Christi said. 
Campus organizers are hop• ing the event will shed some light on the subject. 
"It's a time to get the mes­sage of what Bread Not Stones stands for out to the communi­ty," said Ben Peters of Pax Christi's Notre Dame chapter. "I don't think people have an understanding of how much we spend on the military." 
The bus arrives at Notre Dame this afternoon. There will be theatrical shows at 4 and 6:30 p.m.. with a concert in between. At 8 p.m. a discus­sion of U. S. Military Spending and Catholic Social Teaching will be held in 102 DeBartolo Hall. 
"9l. Voice Like Pine Choco(ate" 
Venezuelan born singer and guitarist with songs from Central and South America and original songs in Spanish and English 
Thursday, October 5, 2000 
7:30 p.m. 
La Fortune Ballroom University of Notre Dame 
Sponsored by 
The Ht.:lcn 
,~KELLOGG INSTITUTE 
fur lntcmullonal Stud1~!6 
Cosponsored with 
IA.~and 
studentuniverse.com Institute for Latin.o Studies 
800.272.9676 
Free and open to the public 

ATION 
Thursday, October 5, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Students vandalize U.S. Embassy; 
Some 1,000 university students pelted the U.S. Embassy in Damascus with stones, branches and bags of rubbish on Wednesday to protest the deaths of Palestinians in clashes with Israeli security forces. The demonstration was one of several across the Middle East, whrre reports on the bloodshed dominated newspapers and television screens. About 500 riot police used · batons and tear gas to stop students from entering the U.S. Embassy in Damascus, but one man managed to rearh the roof and began 
to bring down the U.S. flag. 
Filmmaker Has dies: Polish filmmaker Wojciech Has. who won an intrrnational cult !'ollowi11g with "The Saragossa Manuscript" and headed Poland's renowned Lodz Film School in tlrn 1990s, died Tuesday. He was 75. Has, who suffered from diabPtes and underw<'nt surgery twice in September, died at II hospital in Lodz, said the head of the school's directing depart­ment, Juliusz Janicki. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Drought sends bears to Phoenix: It comes with the cactus-studded territory: If you live in the desert, you watch out for rat­tlesnakes. scorpions and the poisonous lizards called Gila monsters. But bears? Oh my. Phmmix and its exploding suburbs are suddenly a mag1rnt for black bears, which live in the mountains outside town. Some are coming so far into the city you would swear they took the bus. Arizona's Game and Fish Department nabbed a bcur Wednesday in Mesa, less than a day after fincling one in Scottscla!P. 
Missouri farm bureau targets Gore: 
Farm groups and shippers in Missouri, a presi­dential C'lection battleground. have started an ad campaign targeting Al Gore but aimed at getting President Clinton to change his mind about vetoing a huge energy and water spend­ing bill. In radio ads that began airing Wednesday, listem~rs are urged to call Gore, with an announcer saying, "Don't let them strip away our flood protection." 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Inmate commits suicide: A man serv­ing a 65-ycar prison sentence for killing a woman he lived with hanger! himself using a bedshcet at the Pendleton Correctional Facility, authorities said. A guard found the body of Earl Jolley in his cell l\londay morning after other inmates had eaten breakfast. Jolley. 28, was sentenced in 1996 for the murder of Ruth Fulkerson. who was found beaten. choked and stabbed in a rental home that the two shared. 
Market Watch 10/4  
DO\Y/ ]ONES  10,784.48  +64.74  
Up· 1.454  Same: 441  •....:  Composire Volume: 1,197,190,016  

AMEX: 937.46 Nasdaq: 3523.10 +67.27 NYSE: ' 665,14 ..+{);52' ;!!:,,@ 
S&P 500: 1434.32 +7.86 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE OR,\CLE CORI' IORCLJ -1.99 -1.38 68.12 MICROSOFT CORI' IMSFT) -1.98 -112 ~544\ INTEL CORI' (INTC) +4.19 , 1.68 42.00 DELL COMPUTER (DELL) -130 -0.37 28.19 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) ,411 58.56
+2..Jl 

YUGOSLAVIA 
Associated Press 
Belgrade 
In an apparent attempt to buy time for Slobodan Milosevic, Yugoslavia's highest court invalidated parts of the presidential election on Wednesday after thousands of opposi­tion supporters. forced police to back off from seiz­ing a strikebound mine. 
The constitutional court ruling, reported by the state news agency Tanjug, came in a case brought by the opposition -which sought to have Vojislav Kostunica declared thr winner of last month's election. 
Instead, the court, domi­nated by loyal Milosevic supporters, annulled "parts" of the election, the agency said. adding details of the ruling would be made public Thursday. If the presidential vote -or even parts of it -must be repeated, it means Milosevic retains power longer. 
"At first this may seem like a concession by Slobodan Milosevic, but I'm afraid this is a big trap," Kostunica said, "In any case, I believe Milosevic is weaker than ever before, which is clear from the fact that he has to do various tricks to gain time." 
The announcement was 
issued after a stunning and swift turn of events at the strikebound Kolubara mine, the largest of the protests that the opposition launched to force Milosevic to accept defeat. 
It began with riot police swooping down on the com­pound. But they were forced to back off when ­10,000 townspeople swarmed to the complex "defend" the strikers. The turnout gave opposition forces hope that the Milosevic regime was mor­tally wounded. 
'The battle for Serb.ia was won here," cried one jubi­lant opposition leader. Dragan Kovacevic. The independent Beta news agency reported police left the compound late Wednesday. 
The confrontation at 
Kolubara, one of the coun­
try's major mines with 
7,000 workers, was 
unprecedented in 
Yugoslavia, a former com­
munist nation with no histo­
ry of major worker upris­
ings. It dramatically illus­
trated the commitment of 
those seeking to topple 
Milosevic's regime. 
It caught even top opposi­
.tion figures off guard. They rushed to join more than 10,000 protesters at the mine and predicted Milosevic's quick demise, 
Denver fights sex off enders release 
Associated Press 
DENVEH 
A court ruling that could free more than 100 Colorado rapists, child molesters and other sex offenders from prison has alarmed victims of sex crimes and sent law enforcement officers scrambling to undo the damage, 
Nine inmates were turned loose before Colorado Attorney General Ken Salazar stepped in and halted the releases Saturday. Authorities were still looking for them on Wednesday. 
"I frankly was outraged that this number of offenders could bn given the green light to walk without tak­ing as much time as could be taken under the law to make sure victims were notified," Salazar said. 
He has asked the state Supreme Court for another hearing to recon­sider its Sept. 18 ruling. 
Corrections Department officials tried to calm dozens of victims fear­ful that their attackers are free to strike again. 
"This is ridiculous." Rebecca Nye, whose two young daughters were molested by a neighbor five years ago, told The Denver Post. "The laws need to work for kids." 
Allison Morgan of the agency's victim notification unit said callers are told the agency must follow the ruling, "They fully understand that this comes down from the Supreme Court," Morgan said. "They are shocked that the court would do this." 
The ruling threw out mandatory five-year parole sentences for rapists, child molesters and other sex offenders convicted between 1993 and 1996. 
Thursday, October 5, 2000
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
of your surroundings. I only wish a name," added Residence Life students would utilize the escort director Dane North. "We can make
Security 
service." students aware and protect person­"Students need to recognize secu­al privacy. The scariest thing is that
continued from page 1 
rity is not just for emergencies. If so many women never let us know; halls. These fliers give a briefing to you need a ride to your car in the they feel guilty and shouldn't." alert students of the assault. but parking lot. they'll take you," The discussion stressed that Frishkorn said. women need to take precautions to
also protect the victim's privacy. 
Students do not use security to avoid potential assault situations. 
"I think the 'Crime Alerts' arc a 
their advantage, however, and "I feel we are doing our job," said 
wonderful thing to get students assaults do occur the officers said. Hathert. "But we can't prevent you
aware of an incident," said 
"The majority of assaults happen from walking alone. Keep your
Frishkorn. "But is there a way to between boyfriends. ex-boyfriends doors locked. It's part of the world
make them more visible and avail­
or acquaintances," said Rathert. we live in." 
able to students. perhaps through 
"People need to be careful of who Ultimately, students' safety can
e-mail?" 
Chlebek said that the "Crime they are trusting. All decisions for only be monitored by security, not prosecution are up to the victim." created security explained. 
Alerts" are also on the security Web 
If a victim does decide to prose­"Dark spots are always more
page. as well as. the hallways in the 
cute, Sex Offense Services (SOS noticeable after an assault occurs.
residence halls. Ile was willing to 
oITers medical providers, police offi­Much improvement has been done
look into e-mailing "Crime Alerts" cers and counseling. Free counsel­with the lighting on campus."
to students in the future. 
ing is available whether or not the Chlebeck said...But as a male. I
Students expressed concerns of 
victim decides to prosecute. may see more than enough light
not only assault in general but also 
'The entire procedure is private," somewhere, and as a female I may
the increased chance of assault al an an all-women's college. said Hethart. "Students can be not." 
"As an all-women's campus, if 
taken to a private area of the hospi­''I'd like to see the students get­tal and are they do their best to ting involved with the student gov­
someone wants to strike, they are going to find a lot of females here," make the uncomfortable situation ernment to address concerns," he 
said sophomore Katie Vincer. "I feel as comfortable as possible." continued. 
A particular concern for some Chlebeck explained that he meets
my parnnl'i would like to see their money spent on increasing securi­students involves the area where with student bodv president, Crissie ty." incidents commonly occur on cam-Renner and vice president, Michelle pus. . Nagle annually to discuss security. 
However, no amount of security resources guarantees safety. "I know a lot of girls who've been For the time being, security is "Hegardless of how much security approached in Angela's parking doing its best to monilor and lot," sophomore Anne Hoover said. ensure students' safety, they
there is. as women we arc at risk," 
said Kris Pendley from the "But a friend of mine didn't report explained. If students are unsatis• Counseling and Career Center. the incident." fied, however, it is up to them to Pendley pointed out that by not address concerns with the Board of
Most assaults occur when a 
reporting incidents, students Governance.
woman is alone and are pre­ventable. the security officers deprive other students of' valuable "We need involvement from the information. entire community, not just two stu­
emphasized. "Don't walk or go running by Many of those present empha­dents," said Chlebeck. sized the fact that reports can be "If people want to come and bring 
yourself," said officer Belinda Rathert. "There's safety in num­made anonymously, and privacy forward issues. we have meetings will be maintained. every Wednesday at 6 [p.m.J on the
bers. and as women we need to "Know an incident can be report­third floor of the library," said
realize this. Travel in twos. in threes. You must always be aware ed without security having to know Frishkorn. 
Cavadini directs Institute for Church Life 
Special to TI,,, Observer 
John Cavadini, associate professor and chair of theology at Notre Dame, has been appointed direc­tor of the Institute for Church Life (ICL) by Nathan Hatch. University provost. 
Cavadini, who has chaired the theology depart­ment since 1997. is a scholar of historical theology specializing in patristics and the early Church. Before joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1990, he taught at Villanova University and Loyola College in Maryland. 
Cavadini has named Father Joseph Weiss acting director of the ICL. Father Weiss. concurrent asso­ciate professional specialist in theology, has served for the last year as associate director of the Center for Pastoral Liturgy. In addition, Cavadfni has named an executive committee for the ICL. Members of the committee are Carolyn Woo, dean of the Mendoza College of Business; R. Scott Appleby, director of the Kroc lnstitu te for International Peace Studies; Lawrence Cunningham, professor of theology; Maura Hyan. assistant professor of theology; Father Richard Warner, director of campus ministry and counselor to the president: Father Mark Poorman, vice presi­dent for student affairs; John McGrcevy, associate professor of history; and Father Virgilio Elizondo, visiting professor of theology. 
"This committee will be a sort of faculty 'think tank' for !CL." said Cavadini. "My hope is that its members will envision, propose and investigate ways the University can serve the Church and that together we will steer ICL towards the most worthy projects." 
CLARIFICATION 
An article in Tuesday's Observer implied that the Women's Hesource Center remains under probation for making available information about abortion in 1998. That 

probation. initially a two-year error. 
Saint Mag~s College 
NOTRE DAME• INDIANA 
The Nation•s Prt!!lrnler Catholic VVomen ·.s College 
28TH ANNUAL 
EUROPEAN S"I,,UDY TOUR_ 
1::(a_lt~iif>.fp1l..-C~ .. ,, ii f, Children .m:1•f·,,, ~~ 
~;,'\;--.::,~)·. _.:·. ::\i~t;~:I•'/{~~t # . , ' -"?.~-\. ./2'..~f~l?~
M~t\_•''Site:t¢1'e,itef :o· · o.,..~•"'sf csc \:~~;,;.~ 
Courses offered in Biology, M:usic, Philosophy, and Psychology.
~~~~~~412:af~~~~ii;~,~ 
For further information contact: 
• Featuring DJ Jeronimo and DJ Chrismix 

sentence, was lifted after one year. and so is no longer in effect. There are, however, still restrictions on what mate­rial the WRC can distribute. 
The Observer regrets the 

from Chicago · Professor Thomas Parisi Department of Psychology -Sponsored by FASO, L• Aliarua, AAA, Saint Mary's College
C.ntar fot Social Concema, Troop ND 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Phone (219) 284-4462 / Fax (219) 284-4866
"'Thenka to Student Gowmment for their generous donation 
e-mail: tparisi@saintmarys.edu
~ ~• -. •l '• •~_..:: ' ,.,... 
(E-mail is best!) 


Barak agrees to pull back armament 
Associated Press 
PARIS 
Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak, in a move to quell esca­lating violence. offered in marathon negotiations with Palestinian 
leader Yasser Arafat to pull back tanks and personnel carriers from for­ward posi­

tions on the Barak West Bank and Gaza, 
Israeli and Palestinian officials said Wednesday. 
Nabil Shaath. a top aide to Arafat, said Barak made the pullback oITer in talks mediated by Secretary of State Madeleine Albright. Ile declined to elabo­rate. but other sources said Arafat was willing to order his followers to avoid sites of recent clashes. 
An Israeli oilicial, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Israel wanted to assess commit­ments Arafat made to the Americans to contain the vio­lence before pulling its troops back from the borders of Palestinian areas. 

The Palestinians also have pressed for an interna­t i o n a l inquiry into the violence on the West Bank and Gaza. 
A f t e r talks that stretched into the 
early morning. a senior U.S. ofli­cial cautioned that no agree­ment had been finalized although steps were still being taken to work things out. 
He said Albright was flying Thursday morning to the Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheik to meet with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak. Barak flew home after the Paris talks and was not going to Egypt, the official said, adding that Arafat also may not go on to Egypt. 

U.N. 
Secretary-General Kofi Annan, who joined the talks late in the day, agrned to work with the Americans to devise a formula acceptable to both the Israelis and the Palestinians for such an investigation, a 

U.N. 
official said. 


The pullback proposal was an attempt toward dispelling mistrust that h.as imperiled already shaky peacemaking efforts between Israel and the Palestinians. 
An Israeli official. speaking on condition of anonymity. said that under the proposed deal, tanks and armored per­sonnel carriers would be returned to militarv bases within the Israeli-controlled territory. 
Without providing details, French President jacques Chirac said, "It's a consider­able step which could permit a return to calm J hope with all my heart, in Gaza, the West Bank and Jerusalem." 
plans lunar landing 
Associated Press 
BEIJING 
China's budding space pro­gram plans to explore the moon f'or commercially useful resources and hopes one dav to take part in an international expedition to Mars. members of the se~retive program said Wednesday. 
Speeches at a bland forum by the head of the State Aerospaco Bureau and a key researcher gave rare glimpses into the military-dominated program. 
Although details were few. the experts made one thing clear: China sees manned spac-e flight as key to securing its international stature and economic survival. 
"If China since the 1960s had not had the atomic bomb and hydrogen bomb nor launched its own satellites, China would not be regarded as an influential, powerful country," bureau director Luan Enjie told the audience of foreign dignitaries and 
THE CUSHWA CENTER 
FOR THE STUDY OF
drL 
AMERICAN CATHOLICISM 
presents
71F 
The Hibernian Lecture 
'Twas Only An Irishman's Dream: The Irish in American Popu.lar Song, l 880~1920 
The Union Institute Cincinnati, Ohio 
Friday, October 6, 2000 
4:15 p.m. Auditorium, Hesburgh Center 

Salsa Ni[ht Every Thursday 
September 28  October 5th  October26  
El Son De Aquf  Freddy Kenton  ·  Benji  
y Los Ases Del Merengue  y Su Merenbanda  
November2  Novemberl0  December 7th  
El Son De Aquf  El Son De Aquf  Fuerza y Alma  

school children at the start of U.N.-declared "World Space Weck." 
Started in the 1970s, the Chinese space program suc­cessfully tested a spacecraft for manned exploration, putting the unmanned Shenzhou, or "Sacred Vessel," in orbit last November. 
China hopes to send astro­nauts aloft, joining lhe United States and Russia as the only nations with domestic manned space programs. 
Previous state media reports indicated a second test-flight could come before the year's end and a manned mission may soon follow. Luan revealed little about a timetable, saying only that manned missions will follow "successful flights of the unmanned experimental spacecraft." 
But he was moro specific about the program's long-term goals: "We will conduct explo­ration of the moon and active­ly join international activities for Mars exploration." 

'• ··' 
Goldman Sachs, an equal opportunity employer, does not discriminate in employment on any basis that is prohibited by federal, state or local laws.© 2000 Goldman, Sachs & Co. 

Thursday, October 5, 2000 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 


Scientists suggest Web solutions 
. New report says directed at the activities of said. 
people, rather than trying to It laid out several possibleInternet problems change the Internet and its options for Congress, includ­linked to individuals underlying architecture in ing a tax on phone service to 
order to respond to a series of help schools, libraries and social policy questions," he hospitals pay for Internet 
Associated P re,;s 
said. access, or the creation of a 
An Internet policy group subsidy program to help needy 
WASHINGTON cheered the recommendations. Americans get onto the 
Surveying the future of ··we don't want a backlash Internet. cyberspace, a scien_tific advi­that destroys the fundamental Such a program would be sory panel on Wednesday sug­structure (of the "something more akin to food gested that Congress consider Internet),"said Ari Schwartz of stamp programs," the scien­a voucher program to help the Center for Democracy and tists wrote. needy families get connected Technology. He said his group Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., to the Internet. The group also wants to avoid laws that "cen­chairman of the Senate proposed a flat tax for states sor from a national level" and Commerce Committee, said he to collect revenue from Web prefers "a global solution that had not seen the report and sales. puts the individual in control." could not comment. 
The advice runs contrary to Weighing in The report some of the GOP-led Congress' for the first also addressed
"Equity in access to 
recent regulatory efforts that time in three possible solu­
and use ofthe Internet 
have tried to mandate specific years, the tions in the bat­solutions to concerns such as panel said the is a matter ofvalues tle between privacy, encryption and Internet was states and local­
and social policy. " 
pornography. "healthy" in ities that want 
In its new report, The its "adoles­to collect taxes Internet's Coming of Age, the cent" stage Andrew Blau on an e-com­National Academy of Sciences' but cautioned NRC member merce purchas­National Research Council, that lawmak­es and those which advises Congress, urged ers still faced who fear such lawmakers not to force the many thorny issues tied to its taxes would jeopardize growth Internet to change the way it growth. of the Internet. operates in an effort to It identified several possible Congress has imposed a address concerns such as solutions to the pressing issues moratorium on such taxes. pornography and gambling. but stopped short of endorsing One solution offered by the Such prevention should focus any particular one. committee would create a flat on laws and enforcement that For instance, the panel tax on Web purchases, no target individual responsibili­addressed the "digital divide" matter where the buyer or ty, one of the authors said. that has kept many low­seller resides, which would be 
"If gambling is illegal in a income, rural and minority administered by the vendor. state, and people in that state Americans from using the The committee counseled choose to gamble, we Internet -and suggested the Congress to ignore "Internet shouldn't hold the Internet nation should try to make Web fads" fueled by public outcry responsible for the activities of access as widespread as tele­or political battles, and refrain its users," said Andrew Blau, a phones. from blaming the Internet for member of academy's "Equity in access to and use problems that occurred long National Research Council. of the Internet is a matter of before the global network was 
"Legal responses _should be values and social policy," Blau created. 

Enjoy dining out in a big way with juicy 
PICTURE YOURSELF HERE 
Chicago style steaks in hassle-free down-
TONIGHT 
town South Bend. Pull up a chair 
You never know what will develop 
to a tender filet, 
when 1200 members of the class of 2001 
an extra thick t-bone, 
mix it up. 
or our specialty, 12 oz. of USDA prime New York strip steak. Lighter options, too. 
$1 COVER[WITHCOWGEIO,MUSTIE21J
AND LOTS OF OTHER SlUFF FOR A BUC~ TOO. I.I 
222 S Michigan, South Bend 219-234-5200 CAU. THE HEARTlAND CONCERT 
MORE PICTURES@ WWW.ACEPLACES,COM/HEARTLANP & EVENT UN£ 219,251,2568 


Bidders set to tap federal oil reserve 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Energy Department announced agreements Wednesday with 11 companies and brokers to take 30 million barrels of oil from the govern­ment's emergency reserve with deliv­eries to be completed by the end 

o f Clinton November. The 11 bidders agreed to return a like amount of crude, plus a 1.56 million barrel pre­mium, late next year. No money was exchanged. "These companies offered the best value in terms of restocking the strategic reserve a year from now," said Energy Secretary Bill Richardson. Last month, President Clinton ordered the release of 
the oil from the federal Strategic Petroleum Reserve on the Louisiana and Texas Gulf 
Coast. 
Clinton said he decided on the release because of concern over tight supplies this winter and to boost the stocks of home heating oil. 
Critics, including GOP presi­dential nominee George W. Bush, have accused Clinton of releasing the oil to help rival Al Gore in the tight presidential race. 
Speaking earlier Wednesday at the National Press Club, Richardson dismissed those charges. 
''Politics was not a factor. Charges of political pandering are simply untrue," said Richardson, arguing the oil was a "good policy" decision to ease the risk of winter home heating oil supply problems. He said the oil could provide an additional 3 to 5 million barrels ofheating oil. 
No money is being exchanged in what has been characterized as a temporary "swap" of government oil for crude to be returned to the re·:,)rve next year. 
The Energy Department did not release the number of bids it received or any other details about them. 
Under the contractual agree­ments the 11 bidders will return 31.56 million barrels of oil to the government reserve between August and November of next year. 
The companies, are gam­bling that prices will decline, which means they benefit because they will be returning cheaper oil. 
The Strategic Petroleum Reserve oil, currently 571 mil­lion barrels, is kept in salt domes along the Gulf Coast straddling the Texas-Louisiana border. 
page l 0 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, October 5, 2000 

Thursday, October 5, 2000 
The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 page 11 
Bush attacks Gore's credibility 
. Vice president defends character, Texas relief visits 
Associated Press 
WEST CHESTER, Pa. 
George W. Bush seized on statements made by Al Gore in their first debate to ratchet up his attacks on Gore's credibility Wednesday. suggesting Gore exaggerated his account of a disaster-relief visit to Texas. Gore scolded Bush for trying to paint him as "a had person." 
A day after the first of their three nationally televised debates, both the Texas gov(•r­nor and the vice president spoke in battleground states before large, supportive crowds. 
"America got to see a differ­ence in philosophy," Bush told several thousands supporters at a noisy rally in a college gymna­sium in this Philadelpia suburb. 
Members of the audience chanted back "no fuzzy math, no fuzzy math," reprising a debate line Bush used to char­acterize Gore's criticism of GOP tax-cut plans. 
While both candidates fol­lowed through on issues raised at Tuesday night's debate in Boston, Bush hardened his stance while Gore sounded a more conciliatory note. 
"Even though Governor Bush and I have a lot of differences personally, I think it's better to spend time attacking America's problems than attacking people personally," Gore told about 5,000 supporters at a rally in Warren, Ohio. 
Bush campaign officials chal­lenged several debate state­ments made by Gore, calling them fresh signs of what they 
called "embellishments and exaggerations." 
One involved Gore's remarks during the debate on his role in the federal response to floods and fires in Texas. 
Bush had praised James Lee Witt, Clinton's director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and Gore echoed that praise. 
"I accompanied James Lee Witt down to Texas when those fires broke out. And FEMA has been a major· flagship of our reinventing government efforts," Gore said. 
The Bush campaign said such a trip never took place, and Gore himself conceded that he might have misstated his rolr ­although he said in Texas, in Houston, with the head of the Texas emergency management folks and with all the federal emergency manage­ment folks. If James Lee was there before or after, then, you know, I got that wrong then." 
Gore spokeswoman Kym Spell said Gore had attended a round table meeting with state and regional disaster officials -but not with Witt -in Houston on June 25, 1998. She criticized Bush for turning to "personal attacks" in the aftermath of what she called a losing debate performance. 
Bush campaign officials also challenged Gore's story about a 15-year-old girl in Sarasota, Fla., Kailey Ellis. Gore said she 
"has to stand" in 
he had been in science class
"/ think it's better to
Texas and had because it was
spend time attacking 
been briefed on so overcrowded the disaster America's problems there weren't response by enough scats. 
than attacking people 
associates of Sarasota High
personally. " 
Witt. School principal "I traveled Dan Kennedy "vith James Lee said the stuuent
Al Gore 
Witt and so did whose father
Vice President
the governor. 
And the vice 
president was nowhere to be 
seen," said Bush's communica­
tions director, Karen Hughes. 
Bush, in an interview with 
Fox TV, said, "l thought for a 
minute I was going to challenge 
him on it, because I don't 
remember him being in Parker 
County," scene of the fires. "I 
would have remembered it." 
"But I took the man at his 
word," Bush added. "Of course, 
it turned out he didn't (make 
the trip with Witt). This is a 
man -he's got a record, you 
know. of sometimes exaggerat­
ing to make a point." 
Gore, asked about the inci­. dent on ABC, said, "I was there 
wrote Gore 
about her crowded science class was with­out· a desk only one day and could have sat on a lab stool. 
"It's a disturbing pattern of the vice president simply mak­ing things up," said Hughes. 
Gore has recently found him­self challenged on the numbers he used on the relative costs of arthritis medicine for his moth­er-in-law and his dog and on his claiming a union song was a childhood lullaby when it wasn't written until he was 27. 
The vice president, rallying a crowd in Warren, Ohio, a Democratic stronghold, scolded Bush for "attacking people per­sonally." 

a R  p E S  p p  0 0  R N  Ts  UNB I  IL  TY I T Y  = I  
C  R  E  A  T  V  T  y  
F  L  E  X  I  B  I  L  T  y  

SEI INVESTMENTS 
SE! is best described by what it is not. It is not slow. It is not boring. It is not typical. SEI is financially strong. It is innovative. It is different. 
We are a leading global provider of technology, mutual fund, and asset management services for institutions, professional investment advisors, and affluent families. 
If you want to find out how you can be a part of our success ... come talk to us. 
Resume Submission September 15 • October 19 Information Session October 5, 7:30 p.m. -Greenfield's Cafe Interviews November 10 
All majors are welcome. 
Puerto Ricans enter suit for right to vote 
. Presidential race may hinge on U.S. court's decision 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
A federal appeals court is being asked to let 2.4 million voters in Puerto Rico take part in the presidential election ­a req1,1est that, if granted. C O U I d make a very sig­nificant difference in the tight r a c e between Al Gore and George W. Bush. 
A group of Puerto Ricans has filed a lawsuit arguing that they arc being denied a right available to other U.S. citizens. 
"The argument is that voting in a democracy, particularly in the United States, is a fun­damental right of citizenship," said Puerto Rico Gov. Pedro Rossello, whose government agrees with the plaintiffs. 
The U.S. Justice Department has taken the other side, arguing that the U.S. Constitution allows electors for the Electoral College to be picked only by those who live in states, not by those in U.S. territories. 
"The remedy, we believe, cannot come through the courts, but we believe the remedy would have to come through the legislative process," Justice Department spokesman Charles Miller said. 
The 1st U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, which handles cases from Puerto Rico, will hear arguments Thursday. 
Puerto Ricans are allowed to 

eCollegefoofoall.com 
!The Marketplace! 

vote in presidential primaries but not in the general election. Congress made Puerto Ricans 
U.S. citizens in 1917. The ter­ritory has 3.5 million resi­dents. 
Puerto Ricans who move to the mainland United States can vote in the presidential election. People who move from the mainland to Puerto Rico can no longer vote. 
"Everything the president 
d o e s 
affects us 
also in the 
same way 
it affects 
you. So if 
we have 
the same 
at stake 
and you 
can vote, 
why not we? We arc American citizens as you are," said Gregorio Igartua, who is one of the 11 plaintiffs in addition to being the lawyer for the group. 
Rossello said that if the court rules in favor of allowing Puerto Ricans to vote in the Nov. 7 election, Puerto Rico could have eight electoral votes, as many as Connecticut. 
Non-partisan political activist Stuart Rothenberg said those votes could be crucial. 
"Politically, giving eight elec­toral votes to Puerto Rico could be the difference in the 2000 elections. The contest looks to be that close. In any case, it would change the Bush and Gore strategies," he said. 
Rothenberg said he believes Puerto Ricans would vote Democratic if they were allowed to take part in the election. 
In August, a federal judge in Puerto Rico declared that the right to vote is a fundamental right of U.S. citizenship. 
The Justice Department appealed, noting that the appeals court in Boston dis­missed a similar ruling in 1994. 
Spokesmen for both the Gore and Bush campaigns were not immediately responding to telephone calls seeking comment. 
www.seic.com/newhire 

page 12 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, October 5, 2000 

u e 
Jo.s 
........ n I 0 
W Founder's day 4-1 Opm, Rolfs 


:30pm 1ngton · •• 

a Alianza: Kellogg Hi~anic Heritage lQ B Z 
U) Month 5:30 pm LaF·un Ballroom • =rene Farrera1 Son~iter 7:30pm Maria Stablein,piadQist ?p~ 
~ Lar-un t5anroom Anneburg Au 1tor1um)< 
~angborn Phox Fire 9pm Holy Cross Hill "Goodnight De~demqna,r-1 
• • Acousticafe' 9pm Huddle Good Morn,ngJuhet
2:30pm Wasfl1ngto"~[i!g~,~~1Po~p1ri,£?:rePgim'J?o Ifcr1 10 9 · 
10.6 ''Trust" 7pm Snite ND Cross Country Invitational 4: I5-Spm •• 
"Good~~,DMjerr'&~liet" 10 10 
~L:'.ro'pm'vlfas'h'mgton • Campus Bible Study 7pm Badin Hall Chapel
Glee Club 85th Reunion Concert Washington Hall 8pm Rhumba less~ea~ggf 
Flipside Haunted House tri~8om 
L1orary 'L1rc1e FASONation 9pm CSC 
"All About My Mother" 9pm Snite 
Best of Acousticafe' 

9:30pm LaFun Ballroon 
10.12
"Hig~ 0!~51piR;"~~:Wa~olo I55 
Acousticafe' 9pm Huddle
"Chi k Run-8·10 .
~-fO~pm oeEartolo IOI 
10.13 
ND vs. ijC
l O -~o vs. Stanford I :30pm EST 
Women s soccer 
"High Fideli " 8:3 & "Chic el u~%pW3 eBartolo I55i 1oj8p111 eBartolo IO I "All About My Mo~' Snite 
F~<2Nation 9pm 

Thursday, October 5, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 13 
YUGOSLAVIA 
Protesters to Milosevic: Leave or be forced out 
statement Thursday, the would only give Milosevic time working. As tempers turn sour, pro­
Associated Press 
opposition demanded that to regroup and once more rig The postal service testers paint grim scenarios, 
Milosevic resign before the 3 the vote. announced a warning strike, and the fate of Romanian dic­
BELGRADE p.m. starting time. In Belgrade, the anti-and_ by noon, the city core was tator Nicolae Ceausescu and 
After days of almost carni­Milosevic Mi Io s e vi c effectively put off limits to his wife, Elena is increasingly val-style protests, the mood is says oppo­protest cam-cars and other vehicles by invoked.
"Milosevic is in panic 
changing among those who sition chal-paign has thousands of pedestrians · The two refused to step take to lhe streets daily lo 1 en g er and is turning to force. been less roaming the streets and aside when the crowds turned demand President Slobodan Vojislav notable than blocking traffic. against them in 1989 at the
. We'll see ifhe has 
Milosevic step down. Kostunica in smaller "This is a revolution," start of anti-communist
enough force to defeat a
"If he doesn't want to step failed to cities -until declared Ilic, the student revolts and were executed down in peace, there will be a achieve an huge uprising in Serbia." now. But with leader, as he led a huge col­after a summary trial. blood bath," said Branko Ilic. outright no sign umn of protesters through the Milosevic showed no sign of a leader of the popular stu­victory in Milosevic winding streets of the capital. going voluntarily on
Zoran DJindjic
dent group Otpor, or Sept. 24 intends to step "For now, it's a peaceful revo­Wednesday, sending hundreds Resistance. that is at the helm elections opposition leader down, the lution. But if Milosevic doesn't of security forces to quash a 
of protests in Belgrade. 
The showdown could come as early as Thursday when the opposition has called on Yugoslavs across the country to converge on Belgrade. In a and a sec­ond round is needed on Sunday. 
The opposition insists Kostunica won outright and refuses a runoff, saying that 
120 North Main St. (219) 255-7737 Mishawaka, Indiana 46544 Fax: -(219) 259-9579 
~-~· re~ 
Restaurant 
T.J. Laughlin 
General Manager Class of 1973 
mood in the get the message soon. it may strike at key mine southwest 
streets was turn sour, really nasty." of Belgrade. uglier Wednesday than in pre­Milosevic is no stranger to But this time, tried and true vious days, when euphoria protests. methods of ending opposition over Kostunica's showing at He weathered three months by force failed. the polls predominated. of demonstrations in 1997 Outnumbered, Milosevic's 
Even the symbol of the before recognizing an opposi­troops abandoned their posts protests -a sun-like Smiley tion victory in local elections. in the mine, after thousands displayed on buttons and But at that time, Milosevic of miners and supporters stickers -was replaced with remained firmly in charge broke through a police block­a "Frownie" because ade.. bearing the in dus­"Milosevic is in panic and is inscription: "They "For now, it's a peaceful t r i a I turning to force," said opposi­are cheating and revolution. But if workers tion leader Zoran Djindjic. lying. I'm angry!" a n d "We'll see if he has enough
Milosevic doesn't get the 
Hundreds of miners force to defeat a huge upris­stores were message soon, it may refused ing in Serbia." c I o s e d turn sour, really nasty." to join Another opposition leader, Wednesday and students Velimir Ilic, sounded a more city bus drivers a n d pragmatic note. 
Branko Ilic
and garbage col­o th e r "Milosevic has some 50,000 lectors stayed off student protestor opposi­of his loyal security forces and the job, leaving t i o n cronies on his side, but there overflowing trash support-are millions of us," said Ilic, containers scattered in the ers in their revolt. the mayor of Cacak, an oppo­streets. And -unlike this time -sition stronghold. "A few of us 
· Even Belgrade's telephone much of the protest was limit­could die, but Milosevic will directory assistance stopped ed to Belgrade. end up the same way." 

THE BEST OF 
ACOUSTIC CAFE
Friday, October 6 
9pm -midnight 
Lafortune Ballroom 
Absolutely Free 
Featuring: 
John Heieck Geoff Rahie Luke Mueller Vince 01Conner Dave Hunt 
i
:::, Nick Faleris 
C 
l 
-Justin Dunn
u, 
s:: 
Cl" 



VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 14 BSERVER Thursday, October 5, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. llox Q, Nacre Dame, IN 46556 02/4 Solllh Dining l lall. No1re Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lrnc 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER Christ inc Kraly Brian Kessler 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VIEWPOINT EmToR: Lila Haughey SPORTS El>ITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Pat Peters An DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTFMs ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunvillc WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROi.i.ER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EmT0K: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAi. iNFO.............631-7471 FAX................. . .................................. 631-6927 AoVF.RTISING............ ......................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.cdu EDITOR IN CHIF.F........................................631-4 542 MANAGING EDITOR/ASST. ME.. ..................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE .....................................631-5313 NEWS................... .........................631-5323 
obscrver.ubsrn:ws. l@nJ.edu 
...................................631-5303 
observer. viewpoi11r. l@t1d.edu St>ORTS ........................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu ScF.NL............. .......................................631-4540 observer.scene. I@)nd.edu SAINT MAKv'S.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu f'IIOTO............ . ...................631-8767 SYSTF.MS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:l!obun,a.fldrdu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated l'fess. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
rninute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates of print.ads 
cial campus cover-age 
acchives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and on line by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instttution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements lYascd on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned cdnorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, leners and columns present the views of the :tuthors and not necessarily chose of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must he signed and must include contact information. 
Qumiom regarding Obsen,er policies should be direct­ed to Editor in Chie/Mik, Co,mol/y. 
~:J 
7 ,.,,.
.,.-~­
' 
~~ 
Stress loyalty to God before loyalty to nation 
In recent weeks the debate about 
whether Notre Dame ought to have 
HOTC on campus has resurfaced. This 
has been due in large part to the efforts 
of members both of Pax Christi, a group 
that is predomi­
nantly pacifist, but 
with some just war 
theorists, and 
HOTC. It is also 
noteworthy that the 
conversation has 
been for the most 
part student gener­
ated and student 
led. 
One way that I have found helpful to think through the issue is in terms of different and some­times competing loyalties. We all have a number of loyalties -for instance, to God, to church, to friends, to country or to family. 
At times, these loyalties dovetail well; at other times, they can diverge sharply. The question when they do diverge is that of which loyalty has priority. 
The just war theory is grounded in a tract ition of thought that holds that loyal­ty to church and loyalty to country can overlap; we can serve God through both. Ilowevcr, the just war theory sets limits on what we can do on behalf of our country or movement. Just wars are wars that meet a panoply of criteria from just cause to proportionality. What this informs us is that loyalty to country is limited by other considerations. 
The nation, in Catholic social teaching, is a real. but relative value. It is a real value becausf among the kinds of associ­ations that can contribute to human nourishing, one is the nation. It is a rela­tive value because there are other goods that surpass it in the moral life. The nation is only a good insofar as it con­tributes to human flourishing. 
The core conviction of the just war the­ory is that it can sometimes be the case 

_,.,;:.%:~:.-:.---~
~:~;~~~4:::>~_.,... :~:~~ ! 
, -~,.~~·. /. ,..,--~·,,,.
.... 
. -...............,, ('·" 
........ , • .J 
that the lethal use of force in internation­
al affairs does in fact contribute to 
human flourishing, or, in other words, to 
peace. The various just war criteria arc 
the restrictions placed on warfighting if it 
is ever to have peace as its true aim and 
result. 
The question for anyone training to participate in the military is that of whether United States practice fits with the just war theory and thus with a loyal­ty that limits patriotism and if not, then what to do. I have heard two kinds of allirmative answers given to the question of participation in the United States mili­tary. The first is ihat U.S. practice indeHd meets the just war norms, and therefore there is no question of competing loyal­ties. 
The second, and in my judgment the more thoughtful aflirmative answer, is that while United States military practice does not in all instances follow the just war tradition, it does so with sufficient adequacy and frequency that Catholic participation can reform military prac­tices so that they are even more in accord with Catholic teaching. This is the more thoughtful answer because it takes into account those cases where United States practice has clearly violated the just war norms or at best is highly ques­tionable. The massacre at My Lai is a frequently cited case in point, but instances like the bombing of the infra­structure of Baghdad (which led to thou~ sands of civilian deaths) come to mind as well. 
Even the thoughtful aflirmative answer, though, has some difficulties. It is based on the conviction that the neces­sary reform is possible or likely. However, the structure of power in the military works against this occurring. 
Persons who refuse to carrv out orders or who, perhaps, even simply question those orders often have difficulty rising in the ranks so as to have sullicient power to make changes of any magni­tude. 
It is true that it is stipulated in United States military codes of conduct that if one receives an unlawful order. one is 
first to ask to have the order repeated 
(for clarity's sake) and then perhaps 
even explained. If it is clearly illegal. 
then the person is legally bound to dis­
obey it. 
At first blush, it would seem that such a stipulation is adequate to cover the concern, but it actually highlights the point I um making about possible diver­gence between loyalties. What is legal is what the United States deems to be so. The real question is what to do if one is given a legal order that is also immoral (according to norms set out by another locus or loyalty, for instanco, the Church). 
If Notre Dame is to have otncers trained on its premises who arc to live in accordance with its Catholic character. then it must teach them how to discern the difference between a legal and a moral order, and it must provide them with the wherewithal to f'ollow onlv the latter when the two are in conflict." 
I would argue that adequate resources are not in place to do either of these tasks at the present time. This is not · because anyone is against the idea, but because it is not sufficiently high on the list of priorities. If all of the HOTC stu­denl5 were to make full use of the resources Notre Dame offers. those of us who work in this area would be over­whelmed. 
There is an upside in the meantime: students are discovering that they them­selves arc an important resource for each other. The Pax Christi/ROTC ses­sions have been well attended and at once passionate and fair-minded, all indications that, whatever other obsta­cles there are, the Spirit is working in our midst. 
Todd David Whitmore is an associate professor in the theology department. His column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseroer. 
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS ---•--_ -_ -_ -_ -_ -_ -----_ -_ -_ •-.._._-_ -_ •_-_.,._•_:---. E 1--:::::::::::""."":::""."":::::'.::::====::::-1 .; 
3
OUR NEW OFFICE 
THE VOICES IN MY .!: 
WHAT 15
j HEAD ARE SHOUTING !
BUILDING WILL BE 
HAPPENI,_N_G___ 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"There is something wrong with a man ifhe does not want to break the Ten Commandments. " 
G.K. Chesterton writer 
VIEWPOINT 
THE 
Thursday, October 5, 2000 OBSERVER page 15 
POLITICAL FACE-OFF 
Cleaning up the campaign finance mess 
End soft money, return voice to the people 
Americans can all relate to increasing costs at the gas pump. This past year prices skyrocketed as oil production decreased. We are also well aware of the effects of global warming and the eco­nomic impacts it has on our society. Cars 
Dan Murphy 
pump out thousands or pounds of green­house gases and cost 
College
consumers billions 
Democrats
each year. 
One of the solu­tions to this mount­ing problem is to require efficiency stan­dards from automobile producers in every new car that is sold. Manv sensible bills have been proposed in th~ past five years, but little progress is being made. Why? The auto industry is giving millions of dol­lars each year to congressional cam­paigns in the form of soft money. This money is used to influence lawmakers in favor of big business. 
The auto industry is only one example. Average American consumers arc hurt each year by legislation bought by oil, air­line. tobacco and other companies. Corporate welfare is a danger not only to consumers. but also to our democratic process in America. 
Hig companies and special interest groups are able to influence candidates in an election by donating large sums of money to their campaigns. Candidates can accept funds in the form of hard money or through a loophole called soft money. Hard money is money given directly to a candidate, and it is regulated by the guidelines established in the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971. Individuals can give up to $1,000 per can­didate, while political action committees (PACs) can donate up to $5,000. Soft money is money given to political parties with the purpose of informing the public on different issues. Because of a loophole created by the Federal Election Commission, however, this money is often used to support specific candidates. Parties can run expensive advertisements using money donated by big corporations. 
With the presidential election coming up this year, campaign finance has been a big issue. Congress has had the opportu­nity to close the loophole on soft money and give an equal voice back to the American public. The Shays-Meehan bill passed the House of Representatives but failed in the Senate. Similarly, the McCain-Feingold Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act failed to overcome a Republican filibuster led by Trent Lott. 
Both bills would have banned unlimited soft money contributions and required candidates to disclose the identities of 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
their donors. The intent of these bills was to decrease the influence of big donors so candidates would be more responsive to the public. Republicans, however, defeat­ed the measures because they claim that limiting campaign contributions is a breach of the First Amendment. They say that the freedom of expression of special interest groups is inhibited by donation limits. 
In 1976 the Supreme Court ruled on this very issue in Buckley v. Valeo. They said that as long as limits are not too low as to take away the ability of' a candidate to raise money, limits on campaign contri­butions are constitutional. The court acknowledged that political expression is protected by the First Amendment. but they also saw a compelling state interest in preserving the democratic nature of the 
election process. By limiting group con­tributions to $5,000, Congress still allowed interest groups to express their opinions. However, their opinions would not stamp out the voices of American cit­izens. 
In order to uphold the intent of the Federal Election Campaign Act we must close the soft money loop­hole. Democrats, including Al Gore, support contribu­tion limits. Republican lead­ers. however, are more reluctant to sell out their big business supporters. _,,..,.. Campaign finance reform is essential ifwe are to put elections in the hands of the voters. Reforms do not limit the amount candidates can spend, nor do they inhibit the ability of groups to express their opinions. Instead, well-intentioned bills such as the McCain-Feingold Reform Act will merely close an existing loophole that allows big money and big business to take control of the election process. End corporate welfare. Support the democratic process. Vote for campaign finance reform. 
Dan Murphy is a member ofthe College Democrats. Political Face-Off will run every Thursday until the election. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Gore lacks a plan of his own 
.____ 
ers' consent. Often unions take the money contributed by their members to support candidates in hopes that they will in turn support the unions. However, in doing so, the union leaders do not take into account the views and opinions of the individual members. Governor Bush will return the power of 
selection to the individuals by ending such practices. 
The most vital part of his plan is mandatory full disclosure on the origin and amount of incoming campaign con­tributions. Currently, he is the only candidate that posts all of his contribu­tions on the Internet. This allows the 
In the 1996 election cycle, corpora­tions and unions contributed a com­bined $213.50 million to the national campaigns. Any funds remaining from this election roll over for the pre,siden­tial incumbent in 
Lindsey
the following elec­tion to use in addi­Horvath tion to any funds he acquires for 
College
the upcoming 
Republicans
election. Hepublican candi­date Governor George W. Bush will put an end to this in his plan for campaign finance reform, while Vice President Al Gore struggles to form his own opinions out of an originally Republican plan and assuredly makes use of this "rolled­over" money. 
Gore himself states that he has no 
plan, and he is only interested in sign­ing legislation passed by a Republican Congress. His mission statement says, "I will fight to make this happen by sign­
ing bipartisan leg­islation ... " The implication is 
that the matter is not of major concern and giving a sig­
nature is all the time he ,..,,ill devote to the issue. 
Governor Bush has 
· _ 0'-' 
developed his 
a8 
own plan on 
$ ~ 
the issue of 
campaign finance reform. Along with ban­ning corporate and ~ union soft money con­
tributions, he will enact , . ./ aycheck protection," a I y-. protection against spending 
union dues without all of the work-
Celebrating family spirit on Founder's Day 
Notre Dame is a special kind or place. A pince which, in our minds, is unlike any other. Not only do we come together as an institution of higher learning, but as a community and yes we will say it, as a family. We believe the student body of Notre Dame is one of the most amazing collections of people on the face of this earth. We believe because we have seen. Our fami­ly comes together in times of tragedy and times of joy. 
We support each other. We believe in each other. We love each other. Notre !Jame is, indeed. a special kind of place. 
It says somewhere in Scripture that no man can build a foundation except for the one which is already there. In other words, the past and the present are intimately and inseparably linked. Such aspects arc the motivation behind Founder's Day. Tonight, Notre Dame are truly about with each other. 
We, in this day. remember the past and determine the future. More importantly, we come together as a family. We cele­brate each other and what we all share: Notre Dame. While most of what you_ will see will be rides and games, the importance of such an event cannot be lost. Founder's Day is about celebrating 
public at large to know exactly what 
groups are contributing to his cam­
paign, keeping the people informed and 
involved. 
Contrary to the Democrats' claims 
about oil companies' influence, 
Governor Bush received approximately 
360,000 individual contributions of less 
than $200 each. This not only shows 
that individual people are more 
involved in his campaign than influen­
tial interest groups, but it also shows 
that the amounts of money they are 
contributing are small in comparison to 
what corporations, unions, and interest 
groups contribute. The oil companies 
arc not funding his campaign; the indi­
vidual voters are. 
Vice President Gore would like to 
establish free television advertising for 
campaigns in his reform. This is not 
only idealistic but impractical. Not only 
does it elevate costs against the televi­
sion companies. but it also provides 
easier access to negative campaigning, 
as the amount of money spent on 
advertising will no longer prohibit 
politicians from mud-slinging and use­
less ads. 
The issue of campaign fmance reform 
is not limited to the presidential elec­
tions, however. Currently, lobbyists 
contribute to Congressmen in and out 
of office. Governor Bush will prohibit 
this, as well as put an end to "taxpayer 
elections," where the taxpayers are 
forced to support candidates, whom 
they do not freely choose, through their 
taxes. These taxes often support candi­
dates already in elected office. giving 
incumbents an unfair advantage and 
encouraging the business of politics, 
where politicians decide based on what 
will earn them the most money instead 
of what will most benefit the people. 
Campaign finance reform is not an 
issue that the Republican Party has 
taken lightly. The Republican Congress 
has shown a concern for the current 
status on campaign financing, and it ·has developed plans to reform the 
problems. Governor Bush has not only 
created a plan in addition to Congress's 
reforms, but also practices what he 
preaches by keeping the public 
informed about his campaign fmanc­
ing. While Vice President Gore uses his 
incumbency to finance his campaign. 
Governor Bush works to keep financing 
at a·minimum and individual involve­
ment at a maximum. 
Lindsey Horvath is a member ofthe 
College Republicans. Political Face-Off 
will run every Thursday until the elec­
tion. 
The views expressed in this column 
are those ofthe author and not rieces­
sarily those ofThe Observer. 
will come together again as a family. We all that we were, are and ever will be. will n~flect on who we are and what we We hope to see you there. 
Brooke E. Norton 
Student Body Vice President 
Alyse Latour 
Programming Division Head Elliot Nelson Programming Division Head Ocr. 4, 2000 

page 16 
MOVIE REVIEW 
By MATT CACCAMO 
Scene Movie Critic 
Sports and racism operate on two 
entirely different levels of human activity 
and emotion. Sports rely on unifying con­
cepts like teamwork, courage and com­
mitment. Hacism breeds exactly the 
opposite: division, cowardice and hatred. 
To say the least. dealing with both 
together in one film and making that film 
ring true is a tough task. "Remember the 
Titans" succeeds beyond expectations. 
The film is set in Alexandria, Va. in 
1971. As the movie opens, two things are 
occupying the minds of Alexandria's resi­
dents: the desegregation of the cily's 
schools and the upcoming high-school 
football season. This true story focuses 
on the desegregation of T.C. Williams 
I ligh School. 
As part of this process, the school 
board hus decided that there needs to be 
a black head football coach in one of the 
city's high schools. T.C. Williams is cho­
sen. Enter Herman Boone (Denzel 
Washington), a black football coach from 
North Carolina. lle's chosen Lo replace 
Bill Yoast (Will Patton) as the T.C. 
Williams Titans' head football coach. 
Neither man is particularly keen on the 
idea. They are both swept into a situation 
of upheaval; one as the victim, the other 
as the hero to the city's black community. 
lloone and Yoast clash but, after some 
prodding, Boone convinces Yoast to stay 
on as an assistant coach. 
They take their players, both black and 
white, to a private college for August 
training camp. The ensuing weeks of rig­
orous mental and physical workout bring 
the equally suspicious sides together. 
They r11lllrn to Alexandria a changed group: one that views each other as equal members of a team moving in one direction. The question to bn answered over the next half' of the film is whether or noL they can maintain and spread that message in a hostile oul'iide world. The f'ooLball season unfolds, and the racially charged atmosphere of Alexandria unfolds around it. 
This movie is a success because it isn't jusL about football. In fact, one could argue that the director. Boaz Yakin, sim­ply uses football as a prop in ordcr lo examine more serious issues of segrega­tion and racisln in everyday America. Y,tkin juxtaposes the newfound racial unity of the football team with the consis­tent racial intolerance of the larger com­muniLy to perfection. 
The players are vehicles showing how small pieces of unity and understanding can be powerful enough to break down long-standing traditions of hatred, divi­sion and segregation. 

Yakin could have easily stumbled. Despite its predictability and occasional sentimentality, it's a tough film to get right because it deals with sensitive issues for American society. Add that to the fact that this is a true story that requires some maintenance of historical reality, and you've got yourself a complex project loaded with many potential mis­takes. Yakin navigates this minefield wonderfully. 
A perfect mixture of drama and taste­ful, well-timed comic relief allows the audience to be entertained while learn­ing valuable lessons of their collective past. 
Yakin also triumphs in his rejection of vulgarity; he doesn't lower the movie's purpose by adding excessive violence, sex, or profanity for entertainment pur­poses. 
Washington also plays a key role in Yakin's surprising success. While his character sometimes comes across as cliched and over­
E 
ByJUDE SEYMOUR 
Scene Movie Cricic 
When the opening credits of "Remember The Titans" flashed on the screen, "Disney" was listed as the produc­tion company for the film. The problem with Disney's involvement in "Titans" is that it resigns the movie to predictability. This predictability inevitably annihilates all of the movie's momentum. In addition to its predictability, director Boaz Yakin has left essential elements out of the film that should have been explored. 
The setting is at T.C. Williams, a white school; therefore, the director usually only explores how the white kids are dealing with the sudden changes in school and on the football field. There is a black per­spective that is oftentimes overlooked. The movie suffers tremendously because of this. -Another problem with the film is that it tries to build its messages of racism around a football team's success. The film 
seems to equate 
d o n e • the success of the
"Remember the Titans" 
Washington ulti­football team mately rises with the success
Caccamo 's rating
above this to of the town's give the film a 
i n t e g r a t i o n . heartwarming While the film performance of announces it is perseverance based on a true and bravery. Seymour's rating story, it is unbe-
Every pre-
lievable to think game speech, that one football father-daughter team was able to 
chat, or con­out offive shamrocks offset years of frontation with racial intoler­unruly oppo-ance. nents is done Director: Boaz Yakin The second with the right Starring: Denzel Washington, Will Patton, problem is the 
touch of emotion integration of the 
Wood Harris, Ryan Hurst and Ethan Sup lee
and warmth. school itself. T.C. 
Above all clsc, Washington gives the film a trustworthi­ness that would have been lacking with­
ou L his presence among a relatively young anrl unknown cast. 
That young cast surprisingly doesn't hurt the mm. While none of the young stars of this movie are going to win any awards, they certainly didn't ruin the movie or fumble its message, which is victory enough for Yakin. 
It is doubtless that this lilm will be criti­cized as an unrealistic, corny representa­tion of boLh high-school football and seg­regation. This is unf'air. "Hemember the Titans" may be a bit dreamy, but, as Martin Luther King would have told Alexandria if he had been alive in 1971, dreams are sometimes all we have in an unfair, unequal world. 
Williams has become overrun with blacks, but where did these black students come from'/ Yakin seems to have forgotten that detail and it is very distracting. 
The black football players are lined up in the T.C. Williams gym, looking and sounding like they are gratd'ul for such an opportunity to be there. By their dialogue. the audience has a sense that most of them have played competitively before. But where? Yakin has keyed this movie so much around the white perspective that he has failed to represent all of the black players' worries. Did they not have start­ing jobs at their all-black high school? Will not integrating into a school where they will have lo compete with whites threaten those starting positions? Director 
Yakin has o,edooked all or these <:es-
Thursday, October 5, 2000 
tions. 
Blacks arc grouped into the ideal of "just excited Lo have had the opportunity," which is probably an inaccurate and unhistorical account of these boys. 
The film wavers in whether it actually wants to address true racial problems. It gives us scenes of meaningless l'ootball games instead of u~ing, thi11,~ lim.A, to,u. address what is happening at the school. There must have been racist classmates, racist teachers and hardships in changing from the education standards of an all­black school to the standards of an all­white school. The audience is shown one fistfight in the school hallway that proves nothing, except that the main black and the main white football players, Julius (Wood Harris) and Gary (Hyan Hurst), are still getting along quite wonderfully. 
The movie then drowns in its pre­dictability. The opening title "Disney" should tell everyone in the audience that this team is destined to come together and go undefeated. Anyone not convinced of that fact should be convinced when it is announced that Boone's (Denzel Washington) job will be taken from him if he loses one game. The team goes 13-0, wins states, is happy go lucky and every­oneisafriend. 
The credits state that the movie is based on real life, but the viewer is shown the abbreviated version. They are also only shown the positives. Some obvious prob­lems are failed to be addressed. 
'Titans" has its positives, though. Will Patton's ("Armageddon") depiction of Assistant Coach Yoast is acted well. Ethan Suplee ("American History X"), as Lastik, is surprisingly good, proving he might just be an accomplished actor someday (even if he is the stereotypical "fat kid" in most of his movies). 
The soundtrack, a mix of 1960s and 1970s songs that explore both coming together and the fight for racial c)quality, is well thoughtout and makes some of Lhe sequences more enjoyable. The movie also was able to make an adult l'ootball movie without nudity and swearing, and its PG rating will allow it to be seen by many younger moviegoers. 
Unf'ortunatcly, the film leaves too many questions unanswered. In its 113 minutes, the movie has extraneous scer11~s that could have been replaced with scenes that would have heightened the sense of racial division at T.C. Williams (which would in turn make the union at the end more believable and enjoyable). 
Because it fails to ·address certain themes and is weighed down in pre­dicLability, "Remember tho Titans" becomes a dud of a film. Por most of its 
-du:ti~, il is uo-enjoyable lo wateR. ----~ 

Thursday, October 5, 2000 page 17 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Re-mastered 'Exorcist' still horrifies 
By MATT NANIA 
Assistant Scene Edi tor 
The legend of "The Exorcist" is almost as well known and mythic as the movie itself. Fresh off an Oscar win, director William Fricdkin's methods of dealing with the film's ca.st and crew would have broken Geneva convention laws for war prisoners. Nine people died under 
Sydow) and the two pricsl,;; set about purg­ing the girl of the unclean spirit. Good tri­umphs over evil, though not without some hol:v war casualties. 

It's interesting to look at "The Exorcist" with fresh eyes and see what has with­stood the test of time .. 
Some of the film's clements. such as Burstyn's shrill histrionic performance and the devil's obscenity-laced rantings, have 
degenerated into laugh-amidst cuts of the panting Regan in repose, perfectly frames the turmoil to come. 

The extended footage totals close to 12 minutes and, save for a scene of Regan crawling spider-like down a staircase (one of the creepiest throwaway moments com­mitted to celluloid), adds little to the pro­ceedings. 
An extension of the hospital scenes early in the ftlm do make the doctor's suggestion of an exorcism seem less hasty, but accom­plish little else. An addendum to the origi­nal ending suggests a brighter future but seems at odds with the rest of the film. A conversation between Miller and Von Sydow in between exorcising sessions actually ruins one of the film's original grace moments of silence and space. 
Whether these extras were put back in to flesh out the story, to eke out fresh profits from a scare-starved public, or to serve solely as a valentine for the film's hardcore fans is debatable. What isn't up for argu­ment is the necessity of seeing this modern horror classic on the big screen with an audience once more. 
ln an era when many films compete to scare the hell out of audiences, "The Exorcist" remains one of the few able to successfully scare the hell into audiences, a feat which assuredly deserves another go­round. 
"mysterious circum­
"The Exorcist" able camp. A few of the 
stances" during produc­line readings are apt to tion. sparking rumors of a make one cringe and 
cursi>d set. 
William Poter Blatty's
The original schedule 
script, adapted from his for principal photography novel, comes off, at times, ended up unintentionally 
outoffive shamrocks as religious mumbo 
doubling, as did the film's jumbo. The lilm's essen­budget. It was denounced tial moral center ­as heresy by the Catholic Director: William Friedkin Father Damien's crisis of 
Church. Screenings wcro faith -seems half-baked. 
lillcd with people vomit-Starring: Max Von Sydow, Despite the out-of-date ing, fainting and breaking 
Ellen Burstyn, Jason Miller and . elements, much of the 
into hysterics. In the end. 
it became the second high-Linda Blair est grossing ftlm of its day, jump-starting the adrenalized "event 
movie" blockbuster trend that would forev­er color how Hollywood marketed and pro­duced films. 
Twenty-seven years and countless the­devil-made-me-do-it rip-offs later, "The Exorcist" has been re-released into the­aters amidst much fanfare as "the version you've never seen!" 
Fol'·those who may have forgotten the original: 1'2-year-old Regan MacNeil (Linda Blair) begins showing some rather anti­social tendencies that baffle both her mother (Ellen Burstyn) and local doctors. A priest, Father Damien (Jason Miller), is consulted about the possibility of demonic possession. He enlists the help of an expe­rienced exorcist Father Merrin (Max Von film still holds up beauti­
fully. 
The pre-digital era 
effects are crude yet undeniably effective; the jerky thrashings of Regan under the demon's hold, the sudden movements of furniture and flying debris communicate the primitive, otherworldly violence of pos­session far better than any slick FX house could today. Dick Smith's make-up gives Regan a grotesque visage and the film's most controversial scene, a possessed 1 Regan deflowering herself with a crucifix,· seems blasphemously shocking even today. 
Plus, Friedkin elicits surprisingly lyrical 
moments. The prologue in Iraq, which 
always seemed a bit of a red herting 
before, now takes on a poetic quality of 
atmospheric dread. The touchstone scene 
of Von Sydow arriving at the MacNeil's res­
idence, silhouetted by a shaft of light, 
VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 
Oldlllan and Reno lend talent to explosive 'Professional' 
By V. VAN BUREN GILES 
Scene Movie Critic 
The camera opens on a glass of milk as the audience learns that the dead­liest hitman north of the Mason-Dixon is getting his orders from a Mafia under-boss. In a restaurant in New York's Little Italy, the under-boss lights his cigarette and displays a pic­ture of the "mark." The glass of milk is placed down on the table with authority -empty. The audience still has no idea what the assassin looks like. This is the opening of Luc Besson's 1994 masterpiece, "The Professional." 

The next scene of the film takes us to an Upper East Side high-rise where the mark and his heavily armed goons are conducting their illegal business practices. 
Our professional. Leon, starts on the ground floor by announcing his pres­ence to the soon to be deceased body­guards and begins his cleaning. With meticulous skill and exquisite marks­manship, Leon embarks on his ordered killing spree. 
Our first sight of Agent Stansfield is from the back. He is wearing an off­white suit and listening to classical music via a secret service person's ear piece. Agitation abounds as his partner reluctantly asks him to take the headphones out, escape the bliss of Mozart and deal with the matter at hand. 
As he turns around, we get our first glimpse of Norman Stansfield, the crooked IJ.E.A. agent who is down­right tenacious. aggresive and intimi­dating. He is the quintessential "bad­guy." 
Only Gary Oldman ("JFK," "Bram Stoker's Dracula") could play a villian so monstrous. Covering his thick British accent for the role, Oldman shots that heighten the audience's brings Stansfield to life in a methodi­anticipation for the mayhem which is cal and spellbindingly evil perfor­soon to follow. Eric Serra composes a mance that sends a shiver down the heart-pounding score that compli­spine of anyone who watches his ments the destructive shoot-outs and movements and mannerisms. explosions in the movie. 
Already a respected actor when this Jean Reno ("Mission: Impossible") is film came out, Oldman at his best. Reno also received early notoriety worked under Besson in
"The
for his powerful perfor­his second role as an mance as the self­assassin, in the phenom­
Professional"
destructive Sex Pistol enally popular European rocker, Sid Vicious, in hit "La Femme Nikita.". "Sid and Nancy." Though Oldman steals
Director: Luc Besson
Stansfield is undercov­the show with his suav~ er with his fellow federal Starring: Jean Reno, wrath of hatred and goons who are checking Gary Oldman, Danny Aiello malice, Reno plays a on some drugs that they most lethal hero to 
left at a residential and Natalie Portman Mathilda's innocence 
apartment. It just so happens that Leon lives next door to the family and develops a fatherly relationship with the family's teenage daughter, Mathilda. 
Natalie Portman ("Star Wars: Episode I") plays this fiesty and quick­witted youth in her first big screen performance. Portman perfectly por­trays the anger, inadequacy and inner strength of a young girl whose family has been wiped out. Her sole objective is to seek revenge on Stansfield by learning Leon's killer instincts and developing her own talent for clean­ing. 
Many cinematic factors contribute to this ·tremendously entertaining drama-adventure. 
There is a good deal of slow motion and lust for justice. 
Danny Aiello (TV's "The Last Don") plays the Italian under-boss whose compassion for Leon and Mathilda shines bright by the end of the film. 
Besson's movie is shot with comedy and reverence to parallel the stylistic approach Leon brings to the art of assassinations. 
The '90s saw plenty of assassin movies, but "The Professional" remains generations ahead of the garbage that would characterize the Sylvester Stallone/Antonio Banderas epic, "Assassins," and the dreck that was "Sniper." 
For a truly ingenious vision of a modern day hitman and his pint-size sidekick, check out "The Professional" this weekend at your local video store. 
Thursday, October 5, 2000 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE DIVISIONAL SERIES 
Sojo laughs about trip after Yankees' victory over A's 
Assoda1t:J Press 
0/\KL'\ND. Calif. 
Luis Sojo, a defensive rcplacnment for Yankees sec­ond baseman Chuck Knoblauch. is providing plen• ty of goofy highlight reel fod­der in New York's playoff series against the Oakland Athletics. 
Sojo tripped over his own shoelace and took a pratl'all in the Yankees· win over the A's. The incident left his team­mates in stitches. 
With two outs in the eighth. the A's trailed 3-0 but had a runner on second. Terrence Long hit a routine umpire chuckle to himself. 
"I stood there. I didn't want to go to the mound like I usu­ally do," Sojo said. "I said to the ump. 'What are you laughing about?' Ho said. 'Nothing.' " 
Manager Joe Torre said he didn't laugh at Sojo, who was acquired from Pittsburgh on Aug. 7 when Knoblauch went on the disabled list with a sore right elbow. until the inning was over. 
"We may be using Velcro tomorrow," Torre said with a smile. "I said, 'Oh my God' when I saw him fall. You don't laugh when the tying run's coming to the plate. We 

"When you get over 50, didn't really
grounder to 
laugh at Luis
Sojo -who that stuffhappens" 
until we got
fielded the 
out of that
ball. but 
Jeff Nelson inning. and
caught his 
Yankees' reliever then we asked
right foot 
on his left shoelace and fell without releasing the ball. 
The Yankees got out of the jam without allowing a run, and then turned their atten­tion to Sojo. 
"It was embarrassing. The guys on the bench were all over me. When I came run­ning in, they yelled, 'Don't fall down!'" Sojo said. 
"I Believer I Jeff Nelson said to me when I came in, 'When you get over 50. that stuff happens."' 
After the miscue, the 34­year-old Sojo decided not to join the huddle on the mound as the Yankees replaced starter Andy Pettitte with closer Mariano Rivera. Instead, Sojo watched an 
him all kinds 
of interesting 
questions." 
A day earlier, a mental mis­take in the field by Sojo cost the Yankees a run in their 5-3 loss to Oakland in the series opener. 
With runners on first and second and no outs in the fifth inning, Long hit an easy grounder to Sojo. Instead of throwing to second for a force or tagging Hamon Hernandez on his way to second, Sojo threw to first and the return throw to second was too late to get Hernandez -who scored three batters later on a wild pitch. 
But Sojo did redeem himself Wednesday night at the plate. His two-run double capped a three-run sixth that led the Yankees to victory. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righr ID edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Beautiful brass bed, queen FAX IT FAST!!! I'm going home sick size, with orthopedic mattress Sending & ReceivingLOST & FOUND TICKETS FOR RENT set and deluxe frame. All new, At I hate that Brian kid who lives 
LOST: CAMERA IN BLACK WANTED ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE CASE IN THE HAMMES ND FOOTBALL TKTS AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS BOOKSTORE ON MONDAY, 289-9280 http://mmmrentals.homepage.c 9/25, PLEASE CALL BAR-om/ BARA HUTSON AT SELLING email:mmmrentals@aol.com 1·732-257-0881 ND FOOTBALL TKTS 232-2595 CALL COLLECT 251-1570 
That Pretty Place, Bed and VICTORY TKTS Breakfast Inn has space avail-BUY"SELL "TRADE able for football/parent wknds. 
NOTICES 
ND FOOTBALL 5 Rooms with private baths, 232-0964 $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles www.victorytickets.com from campus. Toll Road, Exit 
COLLEGE SCHOLARSHIPS #107, 1·800-418-9487. 300,000+ private sector schol• BUY/SELL ND TICKETS arships available for under-273-3911 3, 4 & 5-bedroom alumni-graduate and graduate stu-owned homes for rent. Please dents at accredited colleges in ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED call Jason @ 240-0322 for the USA regardless of GPA, AM. -232-2378 homes close to campus. finance, age or citizenship P.M. -288-2726 Write or Call for FREE informa­tion and application ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR 
SALE FOR SALE SCHOLARSHIP DATABASE AM. -232-2378 SERVICE P.M. -288-2726 SPRING BREAK 2001 ­
P.O. Box 432 Jamaica. Cancun, Barbados, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556-Dad needs 2 tix to Stanford More. Hiring Campus Reps -2 0432 game1 Free Trips! Free Meals-Book Bardyard8961 @hotmail com Ckrosey@mindspring.com by 11/3. Call 1-800·426-7710 1 ·800-936-3706 or sunsplashtours.com. 
2 ND/USC Tix + Airfare THE COPY SHOP GOTO #1 Spring Break 2001 -LaFortune Student Center alumni.nd.edu/-ndc_satc Cancun, Mazatlan, acapulco, Store Hours Jamaica, Florida & S.Padre. Mon-Thurs: 7:30 a.m.-Mldnight FOR SALE, FOOTBALL TICK-Reliable r-NA flights. Best Fri: 7:30 a.m.-7:00 p.m. ETS, ALL GAMES E272-7233 Prices. Earn $$$ or FREE Sat Noon-6:00 p.m trips-call for details' Sun: Noon-Midnight NEED: 4 Stanford tickets for 1.800.SURFS.UP www.studen-PHONE 631-COPY family. Call John, 4-2795. texpress.com 
never used, still in plastic. THE COPY SHOP down the hall $235. 219-862-2082. La Fortune Student Center 
Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 Hello from Morrisey at 11 :45 1992 CHEVY LUMINA, FAX IT FAST!!! GREAT CONDITION. $3,500; Can you go over the shoulder? 272-4776. JanelE.GREAT GAME! GO 3 in 4A say yes 
BELLES! '93 Olds Ciera, 87k, showroom More vanilla pudding condition (no rust). needs noth-Colleen McCarthy, campaign ing, $3600/obo, 272-8333 guru extraordinaire. 16 + Glowsticks =Bad dancng 
94 Mitsubishi Galan!  I'm tired. So, so tired. Why  Hi -I like e-mailing rejection let­ 
Black/Sunroof/195K  can't I wake up? Ever? I fall  ters to the wrong people  
$2350  asleep in class, on the phone,  
Call (219) 247-1983  and maybe at my desk. It has  Would you eat things with hair  
to stop.  on them? Brett would  
Tutoring needed in  
Win2000/Network-MCSE.  Yeah third party candidates!  What would you do with a mil- 
Please call 277-4443.  lion bucks? The voice -it's like  
Good luck with that paper,  2 chicks at the same time  
Kathleen.  
I bet I can hit yo uin the eye  
WANTED  I want to sleep, sleep, sleep.  from my bed  

Sarah Rykowski ­ You are an  Carrie -never mind  
WILL BUY USED CARS CALL  all-star. Just to remind you  
272-4776.  again, you rock my world.  r1·wE·o  
Thanks tor saving the day. We  
Shit! Mgr University Park Mall  love you!  Boy, did I just screw up royally  
Auntie Anne's Pretzels up to  -you think I'd know the date  
$8,  Good luck women's crew  
20-30 hrs, call Pat or Kathy  team this weekend from  I guess not  
219-271-87 40  the press  
Grade these classifieds on my  
Tim + Elizabeth =Bad Touch  message board  
PERSONAL  Lame SYR excuses:  If y'all don't mind, I just wanna  
say something to my grandpa - 
Connolly-Thank you for work- I think our SYR is that night  Peeps, good food, good meat.  
ing for me early tonight. You  good God, let's sleep.  Thanks  
rock.  I'm going to a band party  for everything.  

_____________________..,.._,____.~--------------------------~-----------------­
Thursday, October 5, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 

ERNESTO LACAYO/The Obseiver 
Badin quarterback Prissy Clements runs the ball during Tuesday's interhall football game against Farley. Clements ran for a touchdown and threw for another in the Bullfrogs's tie. 
The Society for Human Resource Management & The Management Club invites everyone to attend the 
Donnelly Lecture Series in Participatory Management 
Rocky Bleier 
"Empowering Employees Through Quality Skill Training and Motivation" 
The '79 Super Bowl game was tied and Bradshaw threw a pass ......... . Too soon and too high .............. . to Rocky Bleier . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 

who snagged it for a T.D., ........... . And thereby helping the Pittsburgh Steelers win their third Super Bowl. 
Friday, October 6 12:15-1:30p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
Interhall 
continued from page 32 
Campus capitalizAd with a short pass to Molly Rost to bring the score to 7-0 with the point after touchdown. 
l\1l;Glinn opened the second half with a completion on first down. 
The Crime then went to work. On a Shamrock third down, Off-Campus line­backer and captain Marita Keane tipped and intercept­ed the pass. 
On the ensuing drive, Off­Campus took a play out of the books of Notre Dame with an option right call that left tailback Francesca Delayo clear on the sidelines to run for another big play touchdown. The 1-point con­version was good, bringing the score to l 4-0 in favor of the Off-Campus team. 
On McGlinn's next posses­sion, the Crime defense once again came up with a big stop. 
The Off-Campus offense took the field and once again found themselves within 10 yards of its end zone when a familiar pass play was called. Unfortunately, the Crime were shut down as a McGlinn defensive back stepped in front of the receiver and made an acro­batic catch to end the drive in dramatic fashion. 
With several quick passes and a few short runs, the McGlinn offense marched down the field towards its goal. A pass was thrown into the end zone to an open receiver. Finally McGlinn was on the board, with-the distinction of being the first offense to be able to score on the strong Crime defense. The 1-point conversion brought the score to 14-7 with only two minutes remaining. 
McGlinn never had the chance to continue its come­back. Smart play calling by the Crime kept the ball securely in their hands. 
Badin 12, Farley 12 
Last minute heroics by Farley thwarted one of Badin's last attempts for a win on Tuesday. as the Finest managed to hold the Bullfrogs to a tie. 
In the first half. the Bullfrogs fed Farley's Finest a steady diet of speed option and screen passes from a variety of formations to build a 12-0 lead. 
To score their 12 straight points. the Bullfrogs quarter­back. Prissy Clements, thri:iw for a short touchdown, 
and scored on "We definitely have to 
and differ­
a 20-yard 
win on Sunday against ent routes,"
quarterback 
said PW
keeper. Walsh to even have any 
captain
According to chance at getting into the 
Amanda
Beth Rimkus 
playoffs. " Gallen.
of Badin. "Our 
Tuesday's
offense rnally 
game was
stepped up Jenny Wahoske 
the second
today. Prissy Breen-Phillips captain tie for BP,
played a great 
and the
game." 
third for
During the first half, 
PW.
Badin"s defense. impaired by 
"We knew from the begin­
the absence of two starters. 
ning that we had lots of inex­
looked equally imposing, 
pe ri en ce d players.We
repeatedly stopping Farley"s 
thought we would be the
drives before they even got 
underdogs. and it's turned
started. 
out to be true," said
Down 12-0 in the second 
Wahoske.
half, Farley scored two quick 
BP will play Walsh, and PW
touchdowns. tying the score 
will play Off-Campus on 
up at 12 as time expired. 
Sunday.
The first touchdown came 
on the end of a long drive that consisted of several nice completions from quarter­back Jenny Geraci. including a 9-yard touchdown strike that cut Badin"s lead in half. 
Farley's defense shut down Badin 's offense, and with under 40 seconds left in the game, Farley got the ball back on its 30-yard line. After t)1rce long completions, including one on fourth down to receiver Lyndsay Kosinski, Farley threatened to tie up the score with the clock winding down. 
Geraci finished off the game with poise and patience, throwing a strike to the corner of the end zone, where receiver Beth McKay hauled in the tying touchdown. 
The tie pushed Badin's record to 0-1-4, and further diminished its hopes for making the playoffs. There is, however, still a slight pos­sibility that they could finish among the top four teams in the division. 
Farley's final record for the season is 1-4-1. 
"While we would havA liked to win a little bit more, we're all proud of the way we played this season," said Farley captain Rebecca Glatz. 
Badin knew that they had let one slip away. "The tie felt kind of like a loss for us," said Rimkus. 
The Bullfrogs will try to rebound against McGlinn next week in the final game for both teams. 
Breen-Phillips 0, Paquerilla 
West 0 
Tuesday night's 0-0 tie between Breen-Phillips and Pasquerilla West made a PW appearance in the playoffs a virtual certainty. while slim­ming BP's chances. 
"We definitely have to win on Sunday against Walsh to even have any chance at get­ting into the playoffs," said BP captain Jenny Wahoske. 
Though both teams were repeatedly on the verge of scoring, neither side could push through for the touch­down. 
"We kept trading posses­sions, but no one was making any progress," said Wahoske. 
Tricia Keppel had a few interceptions for BP. and Amanda Gallen had intercep­tions for PW. PW's Kelly Dries was key in shutting down BP's offense with mul­tiple sacks. 
"I was really disappointed with our offense. We're try­ing to get them jump started with some new plays 
Thursday, October 5, 2000
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE DIVISIONAL SERIES 
San Francisco leads series with New York after 5-1 victory 
Hamilton amid raucous series. Ile even stole sec­
As•ocialrJ Pres• 
cheers. ond base after being Bobb Nen closed out walked in the· seventh
SAN FRANCISCO 
the Mets in the ninth. inning Wednesday.
Livan Ilnrnandcz was his 
For Bonds. the three­The Mets' outfielders usual postscason self. 
time MVP whose career spent extra time Tuesday
Barry Bonds was a differ­
has been defined by regu­studying the eccentric 
ent man. 
lar-scason prowess and dimensions of Pac Bell. but
llernandcz held the Mets postscason problems, his it didn't help right fielder to five hits over 7 2-3 
2-for-3 performance was Derek Bell. Bonds' triple
innings and Bonds fought 
an early answer to his crit­caromed so sharply thatback his playoff demons 
ics. Ile ·hit .200 in four pre­Bell sprained his right
with an HBI triple and a 
vious trips to the playoffs, ankle while trying to
key single as the San 
but he had the fourth reverse direction.
Francisco Giants beat New 
multi-hit playoff game of Bell sprained his ankle,
York in the opener of their 
his career. and manager Bobby
NL division series. 
Bonds' triple during San Valentine said Bell won't
Ellis Burks hit a three­Franc.isco's four-run third play in Game 2 of their NL 
run homer as the Giants inning ricocheted crazily division series Thursdaygave both manager Dusty off the wall in right, scor­night.
Baker and Pacific Bell Park 
ing Bill Mueller. After Jeff "It's an injury that will 
their first postseason wins. 
Kent walked, Rurks hit a keep him from playing,"
The new park even played 
long drive to left that Valentine said. "He's on a role in the victory: 
clanged off the pole. crutches."
Bonds' triple took a fortu­Burks' homer. his first in Bell. who has been hurtitous bounce off a low wall 
postseason play since several times this year,in right, while Burks' 
199J, sent the Pac Bell slipped and fell on the out­homer hit the foul pole in crowd into a frenzy. He lield grass when Bonds' hitleft. 
made a curtain call ricocheted off a wall andllernand,iz wasn't domi­moments later. went past him in right
nant. but he picked up It was the Giants' first field.
where he left off in the 
playoff victory in eight sea­Bell. who hit .266 with 
postseason three years 
sons under Baker, twice 18 homers and 69 RBIs 
ago. 1lcrnandez. the NLCS 
the NL Manager of the this season, limped over to
and World Series MVP in Year. The Giants, whose the ball before crumpling
1997 while leading the 
97 regular season victories to the grass. After teamFlorida Marlins to the title, were the most in baseball. doctors examined him on
retired the Mets' first 
won in their first postsea­the field, he tried to stay in seven hitters and pitched son game at Pac Bell, the game.
out of two jams, allowing 
which opened in April. But Bell lasted just fourhis only run on a sacrifice 
While all of the Giants' pitches until he limped
fly in the third. 
stars lived up lo their toward the Mets' dugoutHernandez improved to 
billing, New York's most and asked to come out. He
5-0 lifetime in the postsea­
important players didn't. was replaced by Darryl
son, the same mark as his Mets starter Mike Hamilton, who took his No.
older half-brother, 
Orlando, or the New York 
against the Giants, couldn't Moments later. Ellis
Yankees. 
get out of the sixth inning. Burks hit a three-run
On Monday night. with 
Ile allowed six hits and five homer to give Santhe Yankees in Oakland for runs and walked three. Francisco a 5-1 lead. Thethe AL playoffs, Livan and and reliever Turk Wendell game was the first in a
El Duque got together for 
bailed him out of a bases­best-of-five series.
dinner. 
lo ade d jam in the sixth
llernandez struck out 
with two strikeouts.
rive and walked five. but 
Alfonzo. Piazza and
he got into trouble in the 
Ventura N the Mets' 3-5
eighth. allowing a single by 
hitters N went hitless in
Edgardo Alfonzo and walk­
their first nine at-bats.
ing Mike Piazza with one 
Piazza. a career .211 hitter out. in the playoffs, was 0-for-
After Hobin Ventura 
3.
moved the runners along 
Bonds. who singled in
with a groundout, 
the first inning. also had
llcrnandez walked Todd 
two hits in games 5 and 6
Zcile. Baker brought in top 
of the 1992 NL champi­
setup man Felix Hodriguez, 
onship series and in Game
who struck out Darryl 
2 or the 1997 NL division 
289-5080 
Announces the Following Introductory Offers Of. .. 

Fio¾OFil 11'26, f"ss9, r-$68, r's6r,
I A>1eda I I Cut & I I rot'" ,,.n,i. I I Perm, Cuti I Hilit<:s & I 
i 
L !:'!!; .J L 1r,!; .J 1.2"!,!':,.«:,i L ~:l!e..J 1;,u~!ty~ 
Please use the Special Savings invitation and get to know us. You· II be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confi­dence and patronage. 
We hope to see _you soon. 
NoT VAi.ID FOR SPIRAL PEHMS, LONG OH TINTFD HA1R ADD $IO, 
1 No 0T!IEH DISCOUNTS APPLY. OPEN soME EVENINGS. ATRIA 
SALON RESERVES TIIE RIGHT TO REFUSE SERVICE TO ANY CLIENT 
WHOSE HAIH CONDITION JS UNSUITABLE. 
Valid with the FolJowing Stylists Only: Sarah, Vicki, & Connie -NEW CLIENTS ONLY­
I Must Be Presented To HcceJ>lionist Before Services Are Performed (Certain Restrictions Apply) , :157 N. Ironwood Or. Offer Expires 10/J 5/2000 

AFP Photo 
Ellis Burks of the San Francisco Giants is congratulated after his three-run home run against the New York Mets during Game 1 of the National League Division Series at Pacific Bell Park in San Francisco. The Giants won 5-,1. 

s
B120 
Ronald Fuchs 
Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer Bayer Corporation 
tiptte~_t. topics ofthe day concerning the ¢ffects.ofchemicals on human health .· _apd the environment invariably lead 
stakeholders to take positionsthat are diverse, to say the least. Yet the sharp diversity associated 
wiih clashing opinions is the very medium in which comrnon approa~hes a.re being found 
toward meaningful resolution of .. highly contentious environn1ental issues. In fact1,Rpn Fuchs de~cribes' 
in a short tour .;f relevant cases, this brand ofdivers(ty n1ay become a .. 111odel for collaboJation onfi1tuttt environmental solutions. 
.-----------------------­
Thursday, October 5, 2000 page 21
The Observer . SPORTS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE DIVISIONAL SERIES 
Yankes beat A's 4-0 to even the series at one grune apiece 
Associated. Press 
OAKLAND 
Andy Pettittc's near-flawless pitching and a radically revamped lineup allowed the New York Yankees to temporar­ily delay obituaries for the two­ti me defending World Series champions. 
Pettitte allowed five hits in 7 2-3 scoreless innings and the Yankees d11l'cated the Oakland Athletics to tie their bfist-of'-livc AL division series al 1-1. 
The playoff series moves to New York for Game 3 on Friday night, with Oakland's Tim llurlson {20-6) -who this year became the first pitcher since 1991 to win 20 games in his first full major league season -fac­ing Orlando Hernandez (12-13). 
Glenallcn Ifill. in the lineup as part of New York manager Joe Torre's effort to shake up a moribund offense. broke up a scoreless game with an BDI sin­gle and LL1is Sojo followed with a two-run double as the Yankees scored three in the sixth. 
The hil5 by I !ill and Sojo came with two outs and immediately after an intentional walk to struggling Paul O'Neill, who has not had an extra-base hit since Sept. 6. After the left-handed O'Neill walked, righties Ilill and Sojo connected off right-hander Kevin Appier. 
Torre demoted O'Neill from the No. 3 spot in the batting order to No. 6 for the first time all year. I le also dropped usual leadoff man Chuck Knoblauch from the starting lineup, moved Derek Jeter up a spot to leadoIT and moved Jorge Posada up from No. 7 to No. 2. Hill took Knoblauch's spot at designated hitter. 
Petlitte. whom Yankees owner George Steinbrenner wanted to trade to Philadelphia in July 1999 before being talked out of it by Torre, has had some of his best performances in the post­season the last few years. 
Ile beat Atlanta·s John Smoltz 1-0 in the pivotal Game 5 of the 1lJ96 World Series, and also pitched shutout. ball in the 1998 Series clincher against San Diego. 
Pettitte was helped by a. pair of double plays. in the first and seventh innings. In the seventh, the A's had men 011 first and second with one out when Ben Grieve grounded into a double play. 
And he survived a strange eighth-inning play that almost allowed the A's back in the game. With two outs, a runner on second and the A's down 3-0, Terrence Long hit a routine grounder to New York second baseman Sojo -who fielded the ball and then stepped on his own foot as he started to throw, and foll without releasing the ball. 
That left runners on first and third, and Mariano Hivera replaced Pettitte. Hivera got Randy Velarde to hit a tricky­hop grounder that third base­man Scott Brosius was able to barehand in time to throw out Velarde. 


Thursday. October S 
4:00 p.m.-11:00 p,m. Founder's Day Celebration: carnival, dinner, & music on Rolfs front lawn 
5:30 p.m. La Alianza & Kellogg Hispanic Heritage Month Closing Event. LaFortune Ballroom 
7:30 
p.m. Comedy, "Goodnight Desdemona" (Good Morning Juliet), Washington Hall* 

7:30 
p.m. Irene Farrera, Venezuelan singer and guitarist, LaFortune Ballroom 


8:00 
p.m. Siegfried Latino Film Festival: "Ef Mariachi", Siegfried Lounge (1 st Floor) 

8:00 
p.m. US Military Spending and Catholic Social Teaching Forum, DeBartolo Hall 102 


8:30 
p.m.-10:30 p.m. Open Rec Lacrosse, Court 1, RSRC 

8:30 
p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, LaFortune Student Center 


9:00 
p_m, Acoustic Cafe, LaFortune Student Center Huddle 

9:00 
p.m. Pangborn Phox Fire: Live Music & Smores, Holy Cross Hill over­looking St. Mary's Lake 


10:30 p.m. Movie, "Chicken Run", DeBartolo 101 * and "High Fidelity", DeBartolo 155* 
Friday. October 6 
4:15 p.m. Notre Dame Invitational Cross Country Tournament, Burke Memorial Golf Course 
6:30 
p.m. Men and Women's Swim­ming -Notre Dame Relays, Rolfs Aquatic Center 

6:30 
p.m. Football pep rally, Joyce Center 


7:00 p.m.-10:00 p.m. Open Rec Badminton, Court 2, RSRC 
7:30 p.m. Comedy, "Goodnight Desdemona" (Good Morning Juliet), Washington Hall* 
8:00 
p.m. ND Glee Club 85th Reunion Concert, Stepan Center* 

8:00 
p.m. Siegfried Latino Film Festival: "Mi Fami/ia",Siegfried Lounge 


8:00 p.m. Movie, uChicken Run", DeBartolo 101 * !"High Fidelity", 155* 
8:00 
p.m. Sorin Talent Show, outside Sorin Hall 

8:00 
p.m. Flipside Haunted House trip, Library Circle• 


8:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express, FREE BILLIARDS, LaFortune Student Center 
9:00 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "All About Mother", Snite Museum* 
· 9:00 p_m. Dance: FASOnation, The Center for Social Concerns" 
9:00 p.m. The Best of Acoustic Cafe, LaFortune Ballroom 
10:30 p.m. Movie, "Chicken Run", DeBartolo 101 * and "High Fidelity", DeBartolo 155* 
Saturday. October 7 
7:30 p.m. Comedy, "Goodnight Desdemona" (Good Morning Juliet), Washington Hall* 
8:00 p.m. Movie, "Chicken Run", DeBartolo 101 * and "High Fidelity", DeBartolo 155* 
8:00 p.m. Keenan Underground Quiz Bowl, Keenan Basement 
9:00 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "All About Mother'', Snite Museum* 
10:30 p.m. Movie, "Chicken Run", DeBartolo 101 * and "High Fidelity", DeBartolo 155* 
*Denotes admission charge for ND/SMC students 
Programs are subject to change without notice. For up to date information, check out the ND calendar. Today @ ND at www.nd.edu or call Student Activities at 631-7308, To add an event to future calendars. please send the details about the activity to sao@nd.edu, 

I 
I
I . 
I 
l I 
t 
I 
I 
I 
! 
I 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 5, 2000 
WOMEN 's SOCCER 
Belles suffer offensive drought in shutout loss to Hope 
By SARAH RYKOWSKl 
Spores Wri1er 
Saint Mary's may have lost to !lope 3-0 but the Belles have not lost their own hope entirely. 
"(The teams( were pretty even­ly mntchod," Saint Mary's fresh­man Wendy Irvin said. "We could have won if we had managed to scorn. We were unlucky on the offensive side." 
The Belles vvcre outshot 27 -16. Although their offense has seen a newfound accuracy carry over into the pregame warmup, some­where between the whistle and the opening minutes of regula­tion against Ilop<i. that accu­ty kick outside the box," Irvin said. 
"The second one was over Laura {Metzger's] head, and the third was a shot to the corner, on the ground." 
1\11 in all, however, Metzger, a freshman on the Belles squad, turned in good numbers for her first solo appearance in the net. 
Tia Kapphahn, a versatile play­er and tri-captain for the Belles, spent most of the time in goal up until recently, when she began spending more and more time up front. As a result. Metzger has seen her tim~~ in the net increase. 
Metzger made 11 saves and only allowed three goals. none in 
the second 
half. 
racy disap­"{The teams] were "The times peared. that lllope)
pretty evenly
"In praclicc did get past
matched."
our shooting the defense, has improved," [Metzger] had Irvin said. "It is Wendy Irvin some great a differunt story saves," Irvin
SMC player 
said. "She
with defenders on you all the time," 
Much liko in the other games the Belles have played this season, the first half belonged to the opponent. The Flying Dutchmen scored all three of their goals within the first half. 
Aftt!r notching one against the Belles. llope freshman Amy Dobb now leads the Dutchmen in scoring with four goals. llope freshmen 
Danielle Nave and Becky Creagh also connected for their team. 
"The first goal was off a penal-
had one 
where she did 
the splits and sat on the ball to stop it." 
Kapphahn, Heather Muth, and Emily Erchick were among some of the Belles to advance an offen­sive effort against the Flying Dutchmen. 
!lope netminder Lauren I linkle. also a freshman, turned in 10 saves to take the shutout. 
"[Ilinklel came out of the box and was real aggressive," Irvin said. "She was not as good as some of the other goalies we have seen in conference." 
? IMAGINE an investment banking position at Wall Street's #1 firm for municipal finance! 
? IMAGINE working directly with top professionals in the field from day one! 
? IMAGINE the opportunity to help build America's infrastructure while developing sophisticated financial skills! 
? IMAGINE... 
SALOMONSMITHBARNEY 
........_ 
Public Finance Department A memberof c1t1groupJ 
Please join us for an open information session about opportunities in Public Finance Sunday, October 8th , 2000 at 6:00 p.m. CCE Room 200 For more information, please email: Vinod.j.Kurian@ssmb.com (Notre Dame 2000) 
Thursday, October 5, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 
,. 


e! 
Founder's Day is Here 
Go to the Carnival! 
4-1 Opm In Front of Rolfs 
Free Food! Free Admission! Free Rides! Gravitron, Moonwalk, Carnies... 
,, 
What More Do You Want? 
Sponsored By:  
The Office of the Student Body President  Saint Edwards Hall  
S.A.R.G.  Class of 2001, 2002, 2003  
Student Activities  Coca-Cola  
WVFI  WSND  
College Democrats  Habitat for Humanity  
H.P.C.  C.C.C.  
M.S.P.S.  




Revenge 
continued from page 32 
shouldn't have been able to. They don't have the big hitters like Hope or Calvin. but their defense is what we had to watch out for." 
With their third victory under their belts, the Belles hope to channel some of the energy from last night's match into their next games. 
"It might have been a rough start but we needed to get used to each other and get together as a team and win some," Meyers said. "It will give us energy to get a few more wins in there." 
Meyers had 3 8 kills and 2 5 digs, as well as 10 service points. Junior setter Jaime Dineen had 68 assists. Leigh Ann Matesich, freshman set­ter and outside hitter for the Belles. made 13 kills. 34 digs and 17 service points. LeBeau had 10 kills and Denise Langlois. a junior rightside hitter, made 10 service point'i. 
"When we played them at their place we were so flat." Bellcs coach Ju lie Schroeder-Bick said. "Tonight these stats paint it like it was. Our net defense, the blocking, was the best it has ever be,m. It was such a 
•good. unified effort here. The team effort was very strong." 
Freshman hitter and defenscman Natalie Hock finished with 15 digs. 
"This was Natalie Hock's . best game ever," Schroeder­Biek said. 
Senior captain and defen­sive specialist Victoria Butcko racked up 27 digs on defense and nine service points. 
"That's great [for Butckol," Schroeder-Bick said. "She just played great tonight. She had no errors on serves and to get that high of digs -she played it to the fullest." 
LeBeau credited the pres­ence of fans and the preced­ing pep rally with infusing the Belles with the desire and determination to win. 
"It brought a whole Jot of the student body in to sup­port us and see us play," , LeBeau said. "It always helps when you have more fans." 
'l\. J'. 
ly good catch by Javin Hunter. It really didn't matter what l
Football 
did. since we lost." One of three highly touted
continued from page 32 
freshman quarterbacks. back as far as checks and as LoVecchio earned the nod over far as what we do. This week Jared Clark and Carlyle the handcuffs are off. You put Holiday less for his talent than in the whole package. and he's for the intangibles. Although got to know it from A to Z." all three a.re competing for the 
With the starting quarter­same position, it's not a cut­back spot in hand. Lovecchio throat race. comes off as too calm to be a "We're in a situation right mere rookie. now where we just needed a 
"Just talking to his high quarterback at the time. and school coach during recruiting Matt's doing a good job," and then Holiday said. again this "All three of us season, "/ still don't know are real talent­there are ed. and I just
what's going to happen.
the same feel my oppor­
J'mjust trying to take it 
qualities he tunity to play exhibited day by day." will come soon­during high er or later." school." For now, it's
Matt LoVecchlo
Davie said. LoVecchio who 
"He's really freshman quarterback 
will be taking 
a confident 
guy. lie 
doesn't get rattled, and I think 
our players respect that." 
As he wades through the slew of reporters waiting to talk with him, he's more con­cerned with getting to dinner than appearing on ESPN. As he talks to one journalist on a cel­lular phone. he walks in cir­cles, just biding his time until he can go. 
The media attention doesn't bother the 6-foot-3, 200­pounder; it's the price he has lo pay in order to play for the Fighting Irish. 
"This is a part of Notre Dame football," LoVecchio said. "I think it comes with the territo­ry of being a Notre Dame foot­ball player." 
Lovecchio saw his first varsi­ty action in the second half against Michigan State as a replacement for Godsey. While he played a very limited role, it was clear that he offered new solutions to the quarterback quandary. 
Godsey, the starter, went four for 15 passing in the game, including one touch­down. and lost a total of one yard in his rushing attempts. LoVecchio. the back-up quar­terback, hit Javin Hunter for a 43-yard pass and rushed four times for 21 yards. 
"I really didn't have to do much at Michigan State," LoVecchio said. "I just ran a couple of option plays and threw a pass. It wasn't even that good of a pass. just a real­

-
-:::~~if:=-tlD
C[NTIII' PO" 
SOCIAi... CONCERNS
')Cl 
HOLY CROSS MISSION IN PHOENIX 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING 
Where: When: Time: 
Center for Social Concerns Thursday, October 5, 2000 
7:30 pm 
Contact Person: Rev. John Herman, C.S.C. Applications Available at the CSC 
the snaps for 
the Irish, a development he didn't expect so early in his college career. 
"I had no idea ll would play so soon]," LoVecchio said. "l still don't know what's going to happen. I'm just trying to take it day by day." 
The Franklin Lakes, N.J., native may not have expected to be thrown into the mix so soon, but he knew Notre Dame was where he wanted to com­pete. 
"Back in my junior year, I took a bunch of unofficial vis­its. maybe about 10 visits," said LoVecchio, who verbally committed to the Irish the summer before his senior year. "l came to Notre Dame for the spring game, came back for camp and liked the feeling that I got. I got a different feeling here, and I've never looked back. Notre Dame kind of stood out on its own." 
Now it's Lovecchio who's standing out on his own, in the spotlight for the Irish as a freshman. 
~J~u; Wfj)) ~lt\!llitl1~J'.lm;> 1~1~1ll!~ ll·U~1UiJJ1 CUu~1~~ 

~-­
When ND stu
---en 
..
choose to drin 
.,,,..,.. ......... 
men have 5 or fe 
.-'i2k".....-......-~~. .. 'fl,; 
drinks per even
--..A ,--. 
womenh 

;,
,. 
~ 
'11: ~ 
~-~..,_:·~:":Jl· 
•;:•··,.-A mt:~~-'\!l: fwm PILLARS
.. . 
· with A!..:,ihol & Dru~ Edu,,11iun , I I La h,rtunt· Stu,k·nt C:l:ntL'r L'nih•r,ir,· of i\orr~· DamL· (.! 19) 6, 1-i->70 http://www.n,l.nlu/ •ldru~ 

Freshman quarterback Matt Lovecchio runs downfield during the loss to Michigan State. Lovecchio wlll become the first Irish freshman to start at quarterback since 1987. 

Thursday, October 5, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 
.---------------------------------··-··-·-·--------------------------­

TM 


every 
one 






your ,,.· 
·\,...4-~J\. 
,r:f~,t: ·~~·'."-:. .~; -~ 

-JALAPENO POPPERS® 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 5, 2000 
' 
' 
I -NFL 
Broncos' Davis sidelined for I week with sprained ankle 
Auoci~t<ed Press 
DENVEH 
Despite wanting to play in his hometown, Denver Broncos running back Terrell Davis was resigned to sitting out practice this week and missing Sunday's game in San Diego. 
Although Davis will make the trip to California. he will do so as a spectator, 
"YcHJ always want to play in front of your home crowd, and San Diego was always a game that I enjoyed going back to," 
Davis said Wednesday. "I'll 
miss it this year, but there's 
nothing I can do about it." 
Davis, who sprained his left ankle and foot in the s e a s o n opener, missed the next two games and then played sparingly in the follow-

Davis 
ing two games. Unable to shake the injury, 
Davis has reluctantly agreed to several days -maybe even several weeks -of rest. 
"I think that's the direction we're headed in right now," Davis said. "Let it rest and see what happens." 
Coach Mike Shanahan agreed. 
"I really thought last week after the way he practiced that the chancfls were that"he'd play half' the game and he'd be ready to go full speed this week," Shanahan said. "But looking at him and the way he's set it back, I think we would be 
IA [f?)~ ~~@rNl#-\fb ~#-\J~~il\7 ·©~IlIMl~ ~~~~~[Nlilll@[NJ IM.l~@:ilil[NJ~ 
; FOR NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S STUDENTS 
PRESENTED BY DOMUS PROPERTY INVESTMENTS & THE SOUTH BEND POLICE DEPARTMENT 
' ;, 
; -~ THURSDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2000
1 
1 
LOCATION AT 600 BLOCK OF NORTH ST. PETER STREET SOUTH OF SOUTH BEND AVENIUE 
REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED STARTING AT 5:00 PM HAMBURGERS/ HOT DOGS/ CHIPS & SODA 
EETING WILL STAR-f"pR(l'MBfflllSIL~;;S:30 PM SEATING IS LIMITED 
DISTINGUISHED 
L E C T U R E 
s E R E s 
Larry Augustin 
President, 
Chief Executive Officer and Director 
VA Linux Systems 
The Future of Software Development and the Internet 
Friday, October 6 
12:50 to , :40 p.m. in the DeBartolo Auditorium, Room 101 
Uve Web cast available at: http://www.nd.edu/-webcast/ 
making a mistake to play him. 
"So he'll get a little rest. a lit­tle R-and-H, and hopefully in the near future he'll be able to come back and help us. I've got the utmost confidence that he's going to get that thing well and hopefully help us out in the second half of the season, at a minimum." 
Davis started last week's 28­19 loss to New England but reinjured his ankle early in the second quarter and didn't play again. lie rushed nine times for 24 yards before being replaced by rookie Mike Anderson. 
Adding to his frustration were allegations -on sports talk shows -lhal he is malin­gering. Some remarks by his coaches were interpreted as suggesting that it is time that Davis plays through the injury. Some fans booed Davis at the New England ga 
"It's easy to sit up in the stands or watch on television and not really understand if someone is injurnd," Davis said. "My ankle is injured. I can't run on it. l can't block. I can't perform my duties. I'm a running back. I need my legs to 
121 South Niles Avenue (219) 234-9000 South Bend, Indiana 46617 

Tbursdoqs Ol"e students night. 5tuJenfs •eceive 25% off meal pPlce witli 1:1ou• sfuJ-ent I.D. 

Mrch1an«'s moat unique Jininq ~•p•,i•ncc Locof.ecl fn ti.a bHWffq ot ibe Hisforic 100 Cenfer in Misl.awalco (219) 257-1792 www.100center.com 
. ··.lt 
....,.·..,..···_·, 
. ~--~
··.,'' 
7000 
ooo1c 01c 
Thursday, October 5, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
PE, Cavanaugh do battle in crucial contest for playoffs 
last season, the team is ready coming off a tough 19-2 loss to Lewis vs. Pangborn Standing in opposition are the By LIZ HOEHN and SUSIE for vengeance. Welsh on Sw1day. Lewis captain Katie Schlosser Phoxes of Pangborn Hall. The CARPENTER New sophomore quarterback Their consistently strong is determined to win, however, Phoxes are 0-4 for the season, Spom Writers Lindsay Terifay wiU be at the defense has carried them and expects a thrilling match­with no hope of playing in the 
helm of the Pyro's offensive through the season. up. post-season. 
Pasqucrilla East and efforts to penetrate On the offensive side, a pair of "We're gonna prove what Erin Piroutek, Pangborn cap­Cavanaugh HaJl face off tonight Cavanaugh's defensive line. quarterbacks, Lynn Olszowy we're really made of," she said. tain, has confidence that her at 9 p.m. on Stepan as each PE's own defense relies on and Mandy Reimer, lead the "We haven't realized our full team will play well, team attempts to win one of its sophomore Brita McCullough, a squad. The two juniors will look potential." "We just want to play to the crucial remaining regular sea­returning starter. for receiver Melissa Marcotte, a At 1-3 so far, Lewis is on the best of our abilities." she said. son games. "The defense has been play­sophomore. brink of a do-or-die situation. The Phoxes' season has been 
The Pyros of PE (2-2) enter ing tough all year," said senior Both teams will look to the The Chicks must win their final disapp8inting thus far, but the last leg of the regular sea­captain Stacey Leicht. "Our experience of their senior cap­two games in order to make it Piroutek remains positive. son games as last year's overall offense just needs to come out tains. Gina Locklar and Leicht to the playoffs. "We faced a lot of adversity, second place team. and execute." of Pasquerilla East and Amy Freshman quarterback Erin but we played hard," she said. 
After a disappointing loss to The Cavanaugh Chaos enter Szestak of Cavanaugh. for lead­Nasrallah will lead the Chicks. "We just want to put a win up 
Welsh Family in the stadium the game with a 3-1 record, ership as the playoffs approach. "She has been throwing well on the board." and hard with confidence," With a young offense, Schlosser said. Junior co-cap­Piroutek is counting on the tain Allison Gooding said the leadership of senior Nichole Chicks strategy was to "get into Meyer for a good game. She the game from the very begin­also expects a strong perfor­ning and dominate from start to mance from their quarterback,
All New: All Yours: All Free 
finish." Jill Chlebeck. 

Dain Rauscher Wessels 
An information session will be given in 201 Debartolo Hall from 6:30 -8:30 PM on Thursday October 5th 
Meet Investment Bankers fron1 Dain Rauscher Wessels and learn about full-time Associate and Analyst roles 
DAI R,\USCHER WEsSELS 
EQUITY CAPITAL MARl:ETS 
ATLANTA• AUSTIN• BOSTON• DALLAS• DENVER• HOUSTON• MENLO PARK• MINNEAPOLIS• NEW YORK• PARIS• SAN FRANCISCO• SEATTLE• TEL AVIV* 
• Strategic alliance with Tam1r Fishman & Co. 
,--------------------------------------------------~------~~---------~­
page 28 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, October 5, 2000 
Calendar of Events 
September 25-October 30 103 Hesburgh Library 
Sign-up, Freshmen Retreat #31 (Nov. 3-4, 2000) Targeted Dorms: Alumni, Breen-Phillips, Farley, Keough, Howard, Dillon, Lyons, McGlinn, Pasquerilla West, Sorin 
Sunday. October 8. 1 :30 p.m. Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
Spanish Mass Presider; Rev. Don McNeill, csc 
Monday-Tuesday, October 9-10. 11:30 pm-10:00 pm St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Tuesday. October 10. 3:45 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Endowed Chair Inaugural Mass 
Tuesday, October 10, 7:00 p.m. Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, October 10. 7:00 p.m. Siegfried Hall Chapel 
Confirmation-Session #2 
Wednesday. October 11, 10:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Twenty-seventh Sunday in Ordinary Time 
Weekend Presiders 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, October 7 Mass 30 minutes after the game Most Rev. Anthony Milone Bishop, Great Falls/Billngs, MT 
Sunday, October 8 Mass 
8:00a.m. 
Rev. Jim King, c.s.c. 
10:00a.m. 
Most Rev. John M. D'Arcy 
11:45 a.m. 
Rev. Patrick M. Neary, c.s.c. 
Stepan Center 
Saturday, October 7 Mass 45 minutes afi:er rhe game Rev. David J. Scheidler, c.s.c. 
Scripture Readings for this Coming Sunday 
1st Reading Gn 2: 18-24 
2nd Reading Heb 2: 9-11 
Gospel Mk I 0: 2-I 6 
Sing for me 
by Steve Warner 
It was the first day of Senior week, May 14, 2000. Mother's Day. May in all her glory was enveloping Our Lady's campus. On that brilliant day ofsun and new-formed flowers, thirty­six members of the Notre Dame Folk Choir made their way to the Maximum Security Prison in Michigan City, Indiana. 
The prison is on the edge of nowhere. Past the city, hardly marked, hang a right-hand turn off US 20, keep your eye on the grotesque cooling tower of the energy plant which frowns down on rhe barbed wire and guards and pathetic brick structures that make up the destitution and despair of the Level Four incarceration unit. And here we are, on Mother's Day. 
It is the Choir's third trip to the prison. Each time, more and more inmates have shown up for our concert. On this day, almost six hundred of the offenders are here. The Catholic community of the prison -some of them just newly baptized -are proud as can be. We are "rheir choir;" they are our hosts. For forty-five minutes before our concert, we mingle with the men of rhe prison. Jovial conversations, timid at first, but always with a sense of hospitality and gratitude on their part. 
We sing our songs. One hour of music. A dedication to the men on death row (they are not allowed to attend the concert, as rhey are in permanent lock-down; however, rhey can view it on dosed-circuit tv). Some lively gospel songs, bringing the men to their feet. Always, a shouced admonition to "rake your rime!" As we sing, there are tears. There are closed eyes. Offenders gently rock back and forth. Many are there with Bibles clasped close co their hearts. 
And at the end of the hour, a long, joyful, standing ovation. The men know that we are not here for some isolated do-good venture. This is_ our third trip. We know some of these guys by name, or by their faces. Some, even their stories. Over the last few years, a bit of adoption has 
taken place ... we pray for these men through the year. 
...we experienced the We remember them during the Lenten season. And we 
journey to sing for them, to let them know that they 
Word of God that could are not forgotten and that they still have dignity, and 
that God forgives them their errors in this world -even 
not be locked up: bars when many ofthe voices in this world cannot. 
There is a certain relief when we leave. The process 
and guards and all the of being searched, passing through four sets of iron 
bars, the dynamic of presenting music to such a need-
devices of human ful group ofhuman beings, and leaving again so 
quickly... this leaves a mark on the soul. We exit the 
imprisonment could not dingy-green corridors of security, and then, suddenly, 
the May sunshine, now moving toward sunset, sur­
rounds us again. So amazingly easy that we can walk
hold back ou simple song of 
around those bars, all those armed guards, and pass 
easily through the gates. 
There is silence around the choir, and a natural 
need to huddle. Across the street from the prison is a 
-
small picnic table. We gather there, to regroup, to pray for a moment for the men locked inside. Fr. Joe RQss, then the chaplain for the prison, points to the right side of the complex. "Death row," he says. We gaze at the brick stockade, which seems to radiate fear and loneliness. 
Sing for me! 
It is a voice pleading from deep inside death row. He is shouting to us, across the chasm that separates the free from the imprisoned. Sing for me! he cries. And his voice is like one who cries from the pits ofhell. Sing for me! 
And so we begin. Hallelujah, my Father, for giving us your Son.... Our voices leap across that chasm. Past the barbed wire, past the guards, past the bars. Sending him into the world to be given up for us .... We give up our voices, the song leaps from cell to cell, slips past the bars and the gates. We can see figures gathering at windows, though we cannot see faces. 
God bless you! the voice cries, on behalfofhis brethren. And our song is raised all the louder, penetrating the Mile rhat few have walked. But musicians can reach out to rhe Mile, if their song is strong and true enough. 
Knowing we would bruise him, and smite him from the earth .... 
And we blink back our tears as we look down upon our Birkenstocks and our designer jeans. 
Please! Sing just one more! So rhc voice cries again, and we obey. We are marching, we sing, we are marching in the light ofGod. And the sun spreads itself about us, and the song penetrates the prison one more time. 
Pray for us! He cries. And we shout back "We will!" And we do. 
Now, we know. We know why visiting the imprisoned is a "corporal work of mercy." "Corporal," or having to do with the flesh -we know, because without even seeihg the man, we saw the face of Christ enfleshed in his words. We know, because we experienced the Word of God that could not be locked up: bars and guards and all the devices of human imprisonment could not hold back our simple song of hope. 
De profundis clamavi· ad te Domine: "Out of the depths I cry to you, 0 Lord." Never again will Psalm 130 mean the same thing. For we have heard a voice that came from those 
..
depths. And we have tasted what it means to minister to that Voice. 
(?MPUSfv11Nl5TRY 
-·-.. 
Thursday, October 5, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 29 
AMERICAN LEAGUE DIVISIONAL SERIES 
White Sox one gaD1e fro01 eli01ination after losing 5-2 
Associated P rcss 
CHICAGO Paul Abbott pitched like a 
playoff veteran aod Seattle's bullpen was nearly unhittablc once again. That's why the 
road-tough Mariners arc
headed home with a 2_0 lead over the Chicago White Sox in
their division series after win·· 
r,~==~!!!!!!!===!!!!!!!~==:!!!!~==~'!!!'!~==!".!""!!!"'!!!!~=~~!!!!!!!~~ John Olerud 
V 
ning 5-2. 
Shutting down Frank Thomas and Chicago's high-scoring offense for a second 
straight game, the Mariners beat the White Sox, putting the team with the Al's best regular-season record on the verge of a quick exit. 
Game 3 in the best-of-five
s " Id
series is Friday at aJeco Fie in Seattle. 
The Mariners won eight of their final nine road games in the regular season, including 
a wild card clinching win at Anaheim last Sunday. And now they've carried it over into the postseason. 
I h Wh
Seatt e stung t e ite Sox 
7-4 in the opener Tuesday
h d M d 
w en E gar artinez an 
Isn't it time your home gave something back to you? 

PRIMEquity Line-of-Credit Loan Low introductory rate! 

0 
Even our regular rate is hard to beat! 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDER.Al CRIDIT UNION 
For People. N~l lor Profit, 
219/239-6611 ......ndfcu.org 800/522-6611 
lnd•p,tCJt.n.t oftht: 1Jnivtnil)t. h4.nnu~ .Pt:reffltAgt. R:~l~, Pro,ptrty tma.1 r~n~o is rlfqulucJ. Nut valid wi'fJ1 any rithc:r ofrtr. ic.AtU. ,.u~jnl to chc.nae-. C<rnt11ult -1 t3X cidvl1or r<i::udinJJ: thtt CW-4u~tibility e! int&ttat. A ~,f\lloon p~nt vill u. ¦ulr ~ m.i0.1Ut'ity. A,0(1r :M ~ix-mc1\tll ini.roduct::.ry p,t-rif,t:1 1 U:>e r&tt will 1,evit1t 10 lh.• hi~~~t 

hit 10th­inn in g homers off Chicago relief ace Keith Foulke. 
Abbott, who started the season in the bullpen. gave up just five hits and two runs over. 5 2-3 innings to win in his first postsea­son appear­ance in a pro career that began in 1985. 
Seattle's bullpen took over as Arthur Rhodes, Jose Mesa and Kazuhiro Sasaki didn't allow a hit the rest of the way. Sasaki struck out the side in the ninth for his second save of the series. 
0 n Tuesday, Mariners relievers gave up just three 
NBC or ABC? AOL or Yah6~sical or Classic Ro6~psons or PJs? 
Paramount or Warner? wxvz or WDIV? Reach or Frequency? A&E or Discovery? MTV or VHl? iBlast or GeoCast? GQ or Maxim? Dawson's Creek or Buffy? FOX or~be or Rolling Stoullll1.rMSNBC? Leno or Letterman? Bulletin or 30 Sheet? Palm or Handspring? 
lgue or Bazaarsuperbowl or Worldcup? TLC or Lifetime? :15s or :30s? Time Warner or Sony? Univision or Telemundo? Kerbango or NetRadio? Howard Stern or Rush Limbaugh? HyperTV or The Box? CPM or CPP? TIME or Newsweek? PlayNow or MediaStatli)ft!'ect Mall or Ema 
west Wi1t1 or who wants to Be a. Millionaire? Nickelodeon or Disney? 
I? 
1a1 ltha Stewart or Julia Child& Order or The Practice? Bulletin Board or Train Wrap7 
~ 
Paramount or Warner? Big Brother or Real World? FOX Sports or ESPN? Biography or Intimate PortraitP.loorminders or Aislevision? Oscars or Emmys? "Ink or Respond rtZ-r>smopolitan or Glamour? Gourmet or Bon Appetit? 
Essence or Ebony? SmartPhones or Telemarketing? ETv o.-ITV? 
beopleorEntertalnment\Nnt,-Company or Industry Standa ~d New York Times or Wall StreetJo~eil-Leher or HardbaU~,P',? 
. ER or Chicago Hope? Banner or lnterstitial?Network TV orSyndication? Barnes&noble. com or Borders. com? Postcards or Posteririg? 
I Career11 Starcom or Samalblna 1ar1n1P 
We are in the business of making choices. II vou llnd these tvnes of choices inuiuuing, Starcom mav be the place tor vou. Come find out more at our presentation on Mondav, October 9th, at The Morris Inn staning at 1PM. 
jt, 
Or 10 10 www.starcomworldwlde.com. ll's your choice. 
Starcom 
hits over 6 2-3 scoreless innings. 
The White Sox, who led the majors in scoring, stranded eight runners. giving them 18 in the first two games. Thomas was 0-for-4 Wednesday and is hitless in seven series at-bats. 
Chicago's 3-4-5 hitters ­Thomas, Magglio Ordonez and Carlos Lee -were a com­bined 0-for-9 Wednesday after going 2-for-13 in the opener. 
The White Sox have lost nine straight postseason home games since beating Los Angeles in Game 1 of the 1959 World Series. 
Thomas, an MVP candidate who hit 43 homers and drove in 143 runs during the season, came up with runners at first and second in the seventh but flied out against Mesa for the second out. 
Mesa deflected Ordoncz's shot through the box, and Mariners second baseman Mark McLemore made a spec­tacular diving stop. He some­how flipped the ball to short­stop Alex Rodriguez, just beat­ing Jose Valentin in a close play for a force to end another Chicago threat. 
Jay Buhner's 400-foot homer to left in the fourth off losing pitcher Mike Sirotka gave Seattle a 3-2 lead. 
Appearing in his 56th post­season game, Rickey Henderson manufactured a run for the Mariners in the fifth. He walked, moved up on a sacrifice and stole third. He then scored on Rodriguez's slow roller to third as Herbert Perry elected to go to first instead of home. 
In the next inning, Henderson left the game with a jammed left index finger after being shaken up sliding head-first into third. 
The Mariners added an insurance in the ninth when McLemore drew a two-out walk, Raul Ibanez singled and Mike Cameron singled. Cameron, formerly of the White Sox, had two key hits and a stolen base in Game 1. 
The White Sox tied it at 2 in the third as Valentin bunted for a single, stole second and went to third on catcher Dan Wilson's overthrow. Valentin scored on Lee's sacrifice fly with Buhner making a nice catch in deep right. 
Game 1 hero Martinez dou­bled to start the second. _ Sirotka, who'd been initially scheduled to start the opener before hyperextending his elbow last week, hit Olerud with a pitch. 
Buhner hit a grounder in the hole to short and Valentin, who had 36 regular-season errors, fielded it but threw off-target and high to second for an error. loading the bases. 
David Bell hit an RBI single and Wilson a sacrifice fly to put the Mariners up 2-1. 
The White Sox got consecu­tive doubles from their first two hitters Durham and Valentin but again couldn't get a big inning going. They were 2-for-14 with men in scoring position in Game 1. 
With Valentin at second, Thomas popped out. After 
.. 
Ordonez walked, Abbott got Lee on a popup and Paul Konerko on a short come­backer, throwing him out even after he fell down fielding it. Notes: The Mariners are 3-5 overall on the road in the postseason. Their win Tuesday was their first ever in a Game 1 in four postseason series. 

Come try-out-for ~CAC's Cultural Talent Showl 
OCT 8th Montgomery Theater 8-10 p.m. 
OCT 9th Center for Social Concerns 7-9 p.m. 
8/ak Images 
Saturday, Oct. 28th 7: 30 p.m. 
sponsored by .BCAC 
PLEASE RECYCLE THE OBSERVER. 
,------------------------------------~-----~------­
-
Thursday, October 5, 2000
page 30 The Observer . SPORTS 
I I 
' ~ 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Torre juggles Yanks' lineup to create additional offense 
Associ.tcd Prcu 
OAKLAND, Calif. 
With his team mired in an eight-game losing streak and a severe batting slump, New York Yankees manager Joe Torre radically switched his lineup Wednesday night for Game 2 of the playoff series against the Athletics. 
Torre demoted the strug­gling Paul O'Neill from the No. 3 spot in the batting order to No. 6 for the first time all year, dropped usual leadoff man Chuck Knoblauch from the starting lineup, moved Derek Jeter up a spot to lead­off and moved Jorge Posada up from No. 7 to No. 2. Glenallen Hill took Knoblauch's spot at designat­ed hitter. 
"It's like rearranging the furniture. I did it just to juggle it," Torre said. "It doesn't mean that if we win tonight it's somelhing we're married to, We're just trying to do something a little bit different to get something going." 
The Yankees, whose hitting woes were a major cause of a seven-game losing streak to end the regular season, had just one hit in the last five innings of Tuesday's 5-3 loss to Oakland. 
O'Neill's sore hip was partly to blame for his awful final month of the season, he had no had extra-base hits after Sept. 6. On top of that, O'Neill, who went 0-for-4 in Tuesday's series opener, was 2-for-21 with no RBIs against the A's this season. 
Torre said he considered making changes during the final week of the season, but decided to wait. In a bcst-of­five series, he was not willing to wait as long. 
"When you get to postseason play. your patience level is not what it is during the regular season because you have a five-game series to deal with," he said. 
Torre's starting lineup for Game 2 was: Jeter, Posada, David Justice, Bernie Williams, Tino Martinez, O'Neill, Hill, Luis Sojo. and Scott Brosius. 
Posada batted second 13 times this season. Jeler was the leadoff batter 21 times, mostly when Knoblauch was injured. O'Neill batted third in every game he started this season. He batted sixth as a starter once last year. 
Even though Knoblauch is healthy enough to play and was the leadoff batter Tuesday, Torre said he hoped Jeter could get the Yankees' offense going. 
"I think there's a certain amount of enthusiasm and spark that lives in that man, and hopefully he has the abili­ty to spark us a bit," Torre said. ''I'd rather hit him sec­ond. But tonight l'd like to get him up as many times as pos­sible. and hope that will give us 11 little jumpstart." 

"Is there anyone among you who, if your child asks for bread, will give him a stone?" 
(Matthew 7:9) 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 5 SOUTH Q!JAD INFRONTOFO'SHAG 
4:00 PM: Theatrical Show featuring zany performers, and Big Balloons 
5:00 PM: Peace Concert featuring Shawn Storer and Danielle Skorich 
6:30 PM: Theatrical Show f~aturing zany performers, and Big Balloons 
102 DEBARTOLO 
8:00 PM: Evening program "U.S. Military spending and Catholic social teaching" 
Federal budget breakdown: For every dollar... $.50 goes toward the military $.06 goes toward education $.04 goes toward health care 


Thursday, October 5, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 31 
TOM KEELEY
FOURTH AND INCHES 
I AM SVRE BY NOW THAT 
YOU HAVE ALL HEAAD OF 
NOTRE DAME'S IMPENDI~ BUDGET CRISIS 
Fox TROT 
TO COMBAT THIS PROBLEM, 
STARTING TODAY, AU. 
I HAVE oevaofED A 
VNIVEltSITY COMf'VTERS 
PLAN TO ELIMINATE THE 
WILi. BE OUTFITTED WITH 
EXCESSIVE WASTE 
1Z LETTER KEYBOARDS 
BY REMOVING THE LESSER VSEb CHARACTEAS, DOCU­MENTS WILL BE cvr IN HALF! MILLIONS Of DOLLARS IN PAPBl COSTS WILL BE SAVEi)! 
BILLAMEND 

CROSSWORD 
TYLER
THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 

• 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

60 Singer Crystal 61 Forearm bone 62 Te Kanawa 63 Tanks and such 
64 Times for les vacances 65 "Light" and "dark'' orders 66 Homes in the hills 
DOWN 
1 Japanese port near Nagasaki 2 Pressure 3 Rococo 
4 Subject taught at 35-Across's school 
5 Rule of India 6 "Ship of Fools" 
actor Werner 7 Play, in a way 8 Like monks 9 Unstinting 
amount 10 Comet, for one 11 Small-time 
12 Super Bowl XV team 14 Down 19 Lush 21 U-boat detector 22-Across 
26 ''The Practice" 41 language with role: Abbr. no known relative
29 Always, poetically 
42 Boric 31 See 35-Across 
43 Three-horse 33 Clever carriage 
ACROSS 1 Unhurried 5 Hashana 9 Works in the 
Uffizi Palace 13 Fortress on a 
hill 15 Regarding 16 Movie princess 17 Man in a suit 18 Creator of 
35-Across 20 Approves, in a 
way 22 Quattro maker 23 lce grp. 24 Not just one 25 Crew members 27 Jane 28 Like old 
postcards 
.30 Parents, often 32 Rodeo catcher 34 Velvet finish? 35 Popular fictional 31-Down 39 One with a match? 40 Retinue 41 Outdo in 44 Active volcanoes, e.g. 48 "Go on .. ." 49 Friday companion 52 Aware of 53 Maglie of 1950's baseball 54 New York-area college 55 Entrance 57 Favorite sport of 35-Across 

47 Doesn't look pleased 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in·the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
I I 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95i per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
HOROSCOPE 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Steve Miller, Clive Barker, Diane Cilento, Donald Pleasence, Mario Lemieux, Glynis Johns 
Happy Birthday: This is not the year to sit back and let things come to you. Finish what you start and deal with issues as they arise. Your intuition will lead you in the right direction, and your ability to find solutions to problems will make you an asset to any group you join. Ask for favors in order to reach your highest potential. Your numbers: 8, 20, 33, 37, 42, 45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your outgoing nature will attract plenty of attention. Be careful not to upset someone you care about to make yourself look good. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Romance will be passionate. Partici­pate in activities that will enhance your looks and your personal out­look. You need to build up your 
· confidence. 00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take time to organize your financial situation and look over your per­sonal papers. Leave well enough alone where legal proceedings are concerned. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Don't let your partner affect your self-esteem. Deception and disillu­siorunent are apparent in your rela­tionship. Be direct and honest. Ques­tion your mate if you must. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Co-work­ers may lead you astray. Don't count on any help from those who make promises. You need to get agree­ments in writing. Career changes are not likely to work out. 00 

EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Look into travel possibilities. You need to be around more people. Love will flourish if you are willing to get involved in new projects. Broaden your interests. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): This will not be the day to con&ont situa­tions at home. You will need some fancy footwork ifyour mate wants to back you into a corner. Put your energy into home-improvement projects, 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Domestic situations concerning in­laws will leave you feeling quite angry. Try to calm down before taking steps to rectify the existing problems. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Get down to business. You can make changes at work or concerning your career direction. Don't let others stand in the way of your advance­ment. An honest approach will be favored. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
You'll find yourself questioning your relationship. Confusion and turmoil will increase if your partner has not been completely honest with you. Re-evaluate your own motives. 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Deception is likely when dealing with colleagues or employers. Empty promises will leave you in an awk­ward position. Get all offers in writing.CO 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may not see accurately the nature of an organization you belong to. Don't become angry if a loved one tries to open your eyes. 000 
Birthday Baby: You have a powerful way of dealing with anything and everything. You are dedicated, shrewd and to the point. You are energetic, surefooted and have a confidence that will see you through any clifficulties. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) C0 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed.is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester Name ______________________ Address -------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ .. 


Shut down 
The Saint Mary's soccer team played a solid game against Hope College, but
.... 
couldn't find the back ofthe net as the Flying Dutchmen shut out the Belles 3-0
PORTS 
page 22 
O
THI: 
page 32 BSERVER Thursday, October 5, 2000 
' 
. 
VOLLEYBALL 
Belles avenge early season loss to Bulldogs 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Sports Writer 
The Belles had the home court advanlage ovor the Adrian Bulldogs this time around, and lhcy used it to pull off tlrnir third season victory. 
"Overall everyone played great and stayr.d focused," Jolie LeBcau, junior middle hit­tnr, said. "We played tough and pushed lo win. It was a team Pl'fort." 
The Belles pulled ahead of the Bulldogs early. ta.king the first game 17-15. 
"The first game was great," LeBeau said. "We came out strong and stayed strong. t\ft1ir that we were excited to keep going." 
Although the Belles lost the second game 115-11. the ener­gy was still high, according to the team. They topped the Bulldogs 15-10 in the third game, even more decisively than in their initial victory. 
"The third game we came out pumped up to win again," LeBeau said. "And for some reason we believe we have to play to five instead of three. But the entire match was full of energy." 
The Belles lost the fourth game 15-11 but took the decid­ing game 15-11 to break the tie and tic the season series at one match apiece. 
According to LcBeau and t\ngela Meyers, a junior on the Belles squad who plays both outside and middle hitter, the Bulldogs arc not the best team in the league. However. the Belles still feel that they have reached a milestone in their play as a team this season. 
"We played Adrian once already this season and lost," Meyers said. "They dug up a lot 
see REVENGE/page 24 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
GOLD LEAGUE 
McGlinn falls to Off­Campus 
By ANTHONY BISHOP, 
BRIAN SHARP, and KATIE 
HUGHES 
Spom Writers 
Postseason hopes were on the line on Tuesday night at Stepan Fields, as Off­Campus def'cated McGlinn 14-7. 
The McGlinn Shamrocks came into the game winless. having kept their playoff hopes alive with two ties and knowing that a win would be key in increasing their chances for a playoff berth. Their opposition. lhe Off­Campus Crime, was unde­feated and all but assured of a spot in postseason play. 
The first half was charac­terized by defensive stand after defensive stand. Neither team's strong defense appeared to be will­ing to give up any ground. Late in the· half. Off-Campus began to run the ball outside the tackle-box. With one minute left, the McGlinn defense was forced to change its strategy, opening up a short pass on third down. 
Trickery was up the sleeves of the Crime's coach­es, however. The pass quick­ly turned into a pitch to a Crime running back who scrambled 50 yards. finally forced out of bounds near the 5-yard line. 
With just under 10 seconds remaining in the half. Off-
see INTERHALL/page 19 
FOOTBALL 
Calm LoVecchio prepared to lead Irish offensive attack 
class and go to practice. I'm a best opportunity," Davie said. junior tailback Tony Fisher Dame gained just 23 yards on
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
pn\lty regular guy." ''I'm anxious to watch him said. "We've got to open up the ground aside from tailback
A.1sociare Sports hlicor 
This "regular guy" is about play. and I know Kevin uur offense the way we did Julius Jones. to become the first freshman (Hogersl feels the same way." when Arna,: was in, and just Lovecchio gives the Irish the Matt LoVecchio's just a typi­quarterback to start for the 
Although newer to the sys­play our type of football." chance to reverse their recent cal guy. Irish since 1987. llead coach tem than Godsey, Lovecchio Since Battle went down, the poor fortune, offering more That is, aside from the intM­
Bob Davie announced will free up the Irish to run Irish offense has been in a mobility and a chance to diver­
vicw requests and position as Wednesday that LoVecchio 
their trademark option stalemate. In the loss to the sify the offense. Davie said. 
Notre Dame's starting quarter­
would start on Saturday ahead offense, something the 6-foot-Spartans, the Irish picked up a "We're not really limiting
back. 
of sophomore Gary Godsey, 7 Godsey can't do. meager 63 yards in the air, of anything," Davie said. "We're 
"I don't think a lot of people the starter since Arnaz Hattie 
" Basically we just can't sin­which 43 came on LoVecchio's going into this game as if know I'm on the team," broke his wrist Sept. 9. gle ourselves into just trying to lone pass attempt. The rushing t\rnaz Battle was our quarter-LoVecchio said. '"I just go to "He [LoVecchioJ gives us the run the ball all the time," game was no better, as Notre see FOOTBALL/page 24 
. 
at. Georgetown Lake Forest Invitational vs. Stanford Friday, 4 p.m. ~ Saturday, TBA. .~ Saturday, I:30 p.m.
SPORTS ­
.. ATA 
Cross Country at Providence
at West Virginia 
Notre Dame Invicacional ~ 
Saturday, 11 a.m. Sunday, I p.m.
GLANCE • 
Friday, 4:15 p.m. 
I ' 






