Script woes plague 'Betty' 
Master Plan buildings open 
Despite its all-star cast, 'Nurse /Jelly· is 
Saint Mary's Welcome Center and Dalloway's 
Thursday
Clubhouse, part ofthe Campus Master
not a good morie, according lo 
Plan, near completion.
rct•icwer Mall Caccamo. 
SEPTEMBER 14,
Scene . page 17 
News . page 3 
2000 

The Independent Newspaper Serving lVotre Dame and Saint Ma,y s 
VOLXXXIV N0.17 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Trip to Auschwitz awakens Notre Dame students 


l\1/embers ofthe Notre Dame community recently traveled to Auschwitz and had the opportunity to view gas chambers ( entrance shown at left) Nazis used to exterminate Jews during the Holocaust. 
Photos courtesy ofColleen Flood and Kate Diaz 

By NATE PHILLIPS ~cws Write, 
Several Notrf' I )anH' sturiPnts and l:tculty mnmbPrs rl'crntly traveled outside thr, cocoon or r,vr,ryday Iii'<> on campus to rnvisit tlw horrors ol' thn I lolocaust. 
Tim group. organiznd by Notre Dame1 the1ology prol'r,ssor Habbi Michw~l Sig,wr. attr·nd<'d a 10-day c.onf'nrnnc.P at thn most notorious Nazi dnath camp. Auschwitz. in l'oland. 
Tlw conf<'r<'ncc·s goal was to promot(' r<>f'IP.ction and dia­logu(' bntwPcn .IPws and Christians on thn atrocities or tlw Ilolocaust. 
Signer. tlw sponsor· or th<• trip, got tlw idea for a ron !'Pr­ence rivn ynars ago whiln in Poland on a lnrturn tour. Signnr mnt a GPrman prinst on his tour that was working toward rnconciliation bl'tw1wn Polish and Gnrman youths con­cPrning thn I lolocaust. Part or thn prinst's work includr,d forming discussion groups to build a grnatr,r understanding b<1twnnn mcmbnrs of thn younger gnnnration. 
"I thought that it was a grnat idea," said Signer. "It sr,emed likr, Amr,ric.an stude1nts would bring a fresh perspective to such a discussion." 
Last March, Signr,r rontactr,d thr, Notrn Dame administration and asked thr, school to fund a trip to a conl'ernnc11 for slu­dnnts in Poland. The conl'r,r­encr, was going to bring stu­dr,nts from Amnrica, Poland and Germany togr,lher. in order lo takn a dntailr,d look al thn Holocaust. The Univr,rsity funded thr trip for four stu­dr,nts. 
"We wanted to examine the placr, ol' the Holocaust in histo­ry," said Signr1r. "But morr, importantly, we wantnd to know how to us<' tlw nrnmorv of it to promotP a grnat(:r undPrstanding among pPopl(: or di1Tnrr1nt rr,ligions and rul­turPs." 
Signnr prnsnntnd tlw oppor­tunity lo his dass<'s and askml those interPst<~d to writn a short Pssay. dPtailing -Pxartly why tlrny W<'rl' intnrnstnd in attending tlw con f(•rnnn\ . .I. I'. Drnvlin<'. CollP<'n Flood. TPrry Wdrh and KatP Diaz wl'n' lh1• four studPnts rhosPn. 
"I had a numb<'l' or stud!'nts that want<'d to go," said SignPL "I was blown awav bv tlwir rourag<' and 1·omn;itn;l'nt to r<' pl'l'SI' n t Am P rica n Catholicism at this intnnation­al ronl'Pn•nn•." 
"I wantPd to go bPraus(' I savv th1• nl'cPssity for mon' Christian-.lnwish dialogu<•." said WPlch. "I wantl'd to lwlp in tlw rPconriliation bl'tWPPn th!' two rPligions." 
Sigrwr's wifP. BPtty. and tlw­ology prol'cssor lilizab!'th GroppP also attr,ndPd tlw rnn­f<'nmc.<'. 
Tlw group. whirh IPl't SPpt. I and rnturnnd Snpt. 10. sp<'nl snvPral days touring small Polish towns. 
The studnnts wr,rp rPquired to mad snv<)ral books and arti­clr,s concerning thr, llolocausl and Polish, Christian and Jr,wish rnlations bnforn attnnd­ing th(1 confnrnnc<'. 
I lownvr,r, nothing would pn~­parn th1\m for what thny wr,rp about to nxp11rinncn. 
"I wr,nl ovnr thnn\ prntty blind," said Flood. "I didn't know quiln what lo r,xpnct." 
For instance. Warsaw ­oncn 25 pnrrnnt Jnwish -now hosts a vr,ry small Jnwish pop­ulation. 
"Thn Ilolocaust is still wry sensitivn in Poland." said Diaz. "It still snnms rnally rncent and 
see AUSCHWITZ/page 4 

Discussions address role of ROTC on campus 
By TIM LOGAN S,·111or '>r.iffWrircr 
What is llw pla1:P of HOTC on a Catholic univ1wsity campus'? 
This is tlw quPstinn whid1 a gath­l'ring or crnw-n1t futur<' Navy 01Ti­c:11rs, shaggier-looking peac1\ activists and a host of th11ir follow stud1~nts considnrnd Wednesday at tlw first or sevoral discussions Lhis snnwst1\I' intnnckcl tu 1'.llCourag(• dialogun on an issuP that has VPxcd Notri• Dam<' sincn Vidnam. 
llw Lalk was sponsor11d by !'ax Christi and brought tlw Catholi(' pnacn group tognthnr with HOTC 
studnnts Lo Lry and !"ind common ground. 
HOTC studnnts at thn event said LhaL tlw qur\slion or how to rnmain lru<' to on1!'s Catholic faith while serving in thr: military was somr:­Lhing lh<'y thought abouf. l"r11qurnlly. But Joseph Zillignn, a Marim~ HOTC studr,nt and lhn othnr main speak­ers, said it is not just f'utu re officers who should considnr that qucsLion. 
"I b,~lir:vt1 this is an isstw which many young mPn and young womnn ar<: struggling with on this cam­pus," hn said. "And more should 
see ROTC/page 4 

Unknown man assaults student 
By MOLLY McVOY S;1inr Mary's Editor 
/\11 u11id11ntilfod Saint Mary's studnnl has allngnd that she was assaultr:d ,war thn Madnlnva parking lot on Monday nvcning. 
The studc>nt said sh1~ was assaulted by a male ac qua in tancc b11 t wr: c n 10::rn and 11:50 p.m. Monday. 
The studnnt was found in tlw Angola Athletic Facility parking lot at 11 :!i1 p.m. and tahn lo Saint Joseph's Mndical Cnnler where! she! was treatnd and rnlnased several hours latn. The stud<)lll explained that she could not rncall what happnn(\d to lrnr bntwncn Urn time or 10:'.-Hl p.m. whnn she arrivnd on campus and 
11 :51 p.m. whnn sncurity l'ou nd hr,r. 
She told security the sus­pect is known as "Tony," according to Hichard Chlnb<>k, director or socuri­ly. 
''She's re1ludant to pro­vidn us with any morn information than wn havn," Chlnhnk said. 
Sncurity on campus is alerting studnnts to tlw l'act that "Tony" is known to bn approximately 21­ynars-old. six l'nPi tall and n(! a r 1 h 5 pounds. It is bPlinvnd that hn drivns a 11JIJ4 rnd Pontiac c;rand Am with Pilhnr an Ohio or Missouri lic(~llS(' platn. 
Chl!lbnk nxplain<'d that it. is not clear wlwthnr the studnnt will prnss charges or not. but shn has refusPd to rdnasn the narnn ol' hnr allng11d attacknr. 
"Sh1: donsn't want to t1:II us tlw nanrn of thn individ­ual." h<i said. "I did a crim<' alnrt so that othnrs on this campus would br, 
awarn.n 
The alert. a r<'port or the 
see ASSAULT/page 4 
-~-­

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, September 14, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Out the door 
ll senms as though tlrnn• is nothing !ell to touch on tlw Pntire campus. No matter how 1:arPf'ully I wash my han,ds or take precautions lo avoid filth something happnns to stop my progrPss. ll is diflirult Lo avoid being perpr,tual­
lv contaminatPd. 
· HPcPntlv. I was at tlw sink ol' th;, wonwn·s restroom washing my hands as another person exitPCI her stall and imnw­diatt'!v lwadnd toward Urn door to walk out of thl~ rrstroom. Slw didn't pass "GO." collect $200 and she didn't PV<'n walk to thr sink and act as if slw was wa.-;h­ing lwr hands. Bathrr, without any prPtense, sh!' IPft. 
It's not Ihat l am a neat l'rPak or s1·11rPd ol' gprms. I am a rational human being 

Helena Payne 
Cop_tJ Editor 
th al rnaliws that l can't avoid getting dirty 
oncn in a whi!P. llowevPr, this was not tlw one 
tinw that I wanted to g1\t dirty. 
In order to leave thr bathroom, I had to 
touch the doorknob. which involves not simply 
pushing (something I could do with my hip), 
but basically caressing the knob in order to 
twist it and open the door. It's a very intimate 
rnlationship that one must have with th<' door­
knob -on<' that l would love to keep platonir 
with a quil'k f'orrrful push. Anyhow. that was 
not an option. 
Tlw situation \Vas awkward because I knew 
that tlw unidPntifiPd suspect -we'll rpf'cr to 
lwr as "Bathroom !lands B11tty" -touclwd the 
doorknob as W!'!l. Unl'ortunalcly, l had a tank 
top on sol l'ouldn't usr long slervr.s to oppn the 
door. I had lo tourh tlrn knob and I didn't like 
it. 
I \\'alk1~d down thr hall a little annovrd and 
tlwn stoppnd in front of' thP doorknob· outside 
of my two-room doubll' anticipating another 
dilemma. I would soon touch the doorknob, 
which i1wvilablv would rnntinuP the distribu­
tion ol' gtirms ail over tlrn dorm. 
In clpf'pnsP of tlw l'Pmale that lcf't tlrn bath­room without washing lrnr hands. I know that slw l'ould haw bePn on the way to her room to wash lwr hands in tlrn sink, but, cvPn so, what about tlw statr> ol' lwr doorknob'! It would be just likn minP, rontaminatr.d until sho dr.cided to use lwr Lvsol. 
ThP CPntn.rs for Disease Control and l'rr.v11nlio11 havP a usPr-f'rir,ndly wr.b sitP (www .cdc.gov/nr idod/op/hand washing. htm) about handwashing that reminds people that, "In addition to rolds, some pretty serious dis­easl's-likc hPpatilis A. meningitis. and infec­tious diarrl1<•a-ran easily bt> prevented if' pco­plP makP a habit of' washing tlwir hands." 
I won't say that l got inf'cctcd with anything as serious as the above diseasr.s, but I was tak­in!-( Vicks rnugh syrup last wcwknnd. 
J>nopl<i who USP toilPts should use water and soap. It's not a di11icult task and it only takes 10 s1•rorHls Many complain about getting colds or food poisoning. but thr. numb11r of' th11sr. sirk1wsscs would dl'cTcasc sharply if more peo­p!P were careful about washing their hands. 
TakP tinw to bP r,onsidfwatP to others and to voursnlf'. Your doorknob, l'ricmds, and immune ~ystcm will thank you. 
The lliews e:rprt•ssed in the Inside Column ar<' those of lhe autlwr ancl not necessarily I hosr' ofThe 0hserver. 


TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene 
Erin l.aRuffa Mart Nania Helena l'ayne Graphics 
{:ourtncy Boyle Dana Mangnuson 
Sports Production 
Tim Ca~cy Noah Amstadrcr Viewpoint Lab Tech Par ()rlcw~ki Ernesto Lacayo 
Th,· lll»,·n·,·r (l 'W~ ~•1•1 2-4000) is pul>lishsd Munday tl1rou~lt Frid.,)' ('X1."t·p1 durmµ t·:ic,1111 ,111d v,u:,111011 pnicu.h. Tht Ohsc:rver is ,1 1ne,mhcr of du· Asaon.nt·d Pres~. All rq1mdrn.:(inu riJ!lHs .1rt• f('Srrvrd. 

THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 
Thursday Friday 
. 
Lecture: "Hace in . Lecture: "Chicana Biology," Dick Jensen, Artists at Saint Mary's." 7 p.m., Carroll Auditorium. Julie Tourtillotte, noon. 

. 
Theater: "As You Like It" :m3 Haggar College by William Shakespearr., Center. 


7:30 p.m., Washington llall. . Theater: "Bye Byr. Brazil." 9 p.m., Snite Museum. 
Saturday 
. 
Lecture: "A Bird's Eye View of Opthalmology"' by William Hurd, 8 a.m., 101 DeBartolo Jfall. 

. 
Book signing: Hudy Ruettinger, 9:30 a.m.• Hammes Bookstorn. 


UNIVERSITY PAHK, Pa. 

Thirteen women were assaulted while sleeping in their unlocked dorm rooms early Sunday morning, Pennsylvania State University Police Services said. 
A male Penn State student has been idontil1ed as a suspect, police said. Aller a request of Residence Lil'c staff Monday, the suspect moved nut of the building, said Alison Cummings, assis­tant director for Hesidnnco Lil'c. 
"I lis prosPncc was not conducive to the comfort of' the involved students. We approadrnd him on that, and hr. did le,we and is not returning vvithout our staff pn1sent," Cummings said. 
But it is important that the suspect gor.s thr()ugh due process before the case is discussed further, Cummings said. Neither Cummings nor police 

"Hesidence Life is not making any judgment on guilt or innocence: that is a criminal issue and one for Judicial Affairs as well," she said. 
Tw(1 students who live in the dorm 


INDIANA UNIVERSITY 
President halts Knight discussions 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
Indiana UnivPrsity president Myles Brand madr one of' his first appearances on the Bloomington campus Tuesday since Sunday's firing of former basketball coach Bob Knight. Brand presided ovr.r the University Faculty Council's first meeting of' the snmester. Before beginning the meeting. Brand told tlrn assembled group Im expects thP controversy over Knight to die down. "We nr.ed very strongly to gr.t the Bloomington campus focus back on learning," he said. "Athletics has taken on a bigger life of' its own." Brand was scheduled to give a State of' the Univnrsity address af'ter the Faculty Council m11eting. The spoech was canceled and was rr.schPduled for Oct. 10. Brand is schr.duled tn discuss thr. state of arts and humanities at IU and around the nation. During the commPnt and qunstion portion of th11 meeting, James Sherman. co­sr.cretary of' the Faculty Council and prr.sidrnt of' the Bloomington Far.ulty Council, took a momPnt to address the Knight situation. 

LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Hend Forecast 

Accu\Vearhcr'"1 forecast for daytime cone.lit ions and h 1gb !empaalurl!s 
H  L  
Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday  Q, 66 ~ 65 ~ 61 -b 66 -b 70  51 41 46 48 50  

Q,Q,Q_46.f.Q {) ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy V,a Associated Press GraphicsNer 
Sunday 

. 
Film: Spncial Screening of "Black Orpheus," 1:'.{O p.m., Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. 

. 
Film: "Orf'nu," din1cted by Carlos Dir.guns, 4 p.m., Snite Museum. 


Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Suspect assaults 13 Penn State women in dorm 
where the assault took plarn, and know the suspPct, went to police la.st night to tr1stify about tlm a'isaulb. 
Churgcs ol' indecent assault. aggra­vated indecent assault and criminal trespass are pending. according to university polirn. Police expPct tlw charges to be filed by tomorrow or Friday. investigating supervisor Strwart Neff said. 
"We have no idea ii' there are morp peopll~ out tlwre who haven't conrn forth yet. if thNo is anyonr,, they should contact us immPdiately," Nr!T said. 
Main entrancns in all dorms are lockPd at 8 p.m. on wnr.knights and between 8 p.m. Friday and 7 a.m. Sunday on football wenkPnds, but oach resid1\nt is rcsponsiblo f'or lock­ing individual room doors. 


UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA 
Penn reviews BYOB alcohol policy 
Pl l[LAl>I!LPI II,\ 
Citing the ineffeclive1wss of' the "bring your own b1wr" policy. thr. administration is set Wednesday to propose removing tlrn BYOB component from the University of' Pennsylvania's year-old alcohol policy. Whrm Penn implemented its new alcohol policy -with swerping educational. disciplinary and social changr.s to tlw cam­pus culture -last fall, officials said that BYOB was one method thr.y would usn to curb uncll'rn)W drinking. But a yr.ar later. of'licials havn deddpd that tlw rulr just doesn't work. BYOB rulr.s state that Pvnry 21-ycar-old attr.nding a registered on-campus party -which include fraternity parties and most otlrnr Pvm1ts orga­nizr.d by official campus groups -could bring a six­pack of b,wr with tlrnm and then retrinvn Lim alcohol from the bartPndr.r during Lim course of' the 1wc\ning. "It wasn·t that tho whole policy was a f'ailure. it was that thr. nxpeclation that people would lw arriving at thP door with th11ir own six-park in hand was not nwt," Univnrsity Alcohol Coordinator St<:phanin lvns said. 

NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather"' forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 14. 
FRONTS, 

............ .......... 
IC> 2000 AccuWeathar, Inc. COLO WARM STATIONARY 
-----­
Pre••urft 

(8) © D D D D D D 
High Low Showers Rain T-atorm ¦ Flurrle• snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Vuii AHOCIBfltd Pr~u  
Atlan1a  81  64  Denver  84  48  New York  75  64  
Boston  66  61  Detroit  61  52  San Francisco  70  57  
Charlotte  81  61  Los Angeles  86  63  Seattle  73  52  
Chicago  63  50  Miami  93  n  St LOUIS  66  54  
Dallas  90  70  Nashville  73  63  Washington DC  73  64  

----7 
Thursday, September 14, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Two major Master Plan projects near completion 
By JESSICA NEEDLES 
News W'ritcr 
Nnwcomers to Saint Mary's ran now avoid gr.Lling lost on ca rn p u s by v i s iti n g l h c n c· w Wnkomc Cc\ntcr. 
TIH' cc,ntrr. originally sched­ul('d to b1· rcctdy in late August, opPned W!\dncsday with a full staff to providn dircc'.tions and answvr qurslions. The only work 1Pf'1 !'or tlrn building is landscaping. 
"It's pr(~tly much on schcd­ull'.'' said K11ith Dennis. vice prl'sicfrnt for Financ(1 and Administration. "It was intrnd­nd that it would be open in i\ugust. so we arP a little bit bPhind. but not much." 
'"It's basirully llpcn now," said Linda Timm. vi('P presidl'nt for Slud1•nt Affairs. "It's just when vou·n· waiting for ltlrnl furni­iurP and su!'h vou'vp orderrd. vou run into u1iexprded ddays vou rn1i't do anything ubout." · Tlw Wl'icorni• Center. posi­lion<·d on Uw campus so that it will hP tlw l'irst visibl,\ building Lo n<·w<·om1'rs, provides an oppor1unity f'or p(!oplf' unfamil­iar with Saint Mary's to learn morn about Llw campus and its history. 
"Thi' \\'elrome Centc1r is the 
first pla<·n that poople [would 
visitr when they are new to the 
campus to get a sfrnse or the 
place." said Dennis. "The histo­
ry display is up and it's just 
wonderful." 
In addition to a history room. 
tlw Center contains videos and 
othPr forms of recreation. It is 
also open to any current stu­
donts who may be curious 
about the history or Saint 
Mary's. 
ThP building also is the new 
homo for the din'r:tor of securi­
tv, Hichard Chlebek. and the 
i~formation switrhboard has 
been relocated there. 
"I think the building is really 
nicr,," Cblebr,k said. "Jt's a step 
in tllf' right dirnction for the 
Colkge. The center should be a 
symbol or Saint :\.1ary's hospital­
ity.·· 
Th0. WPlromr Crrnter is part of 
thr Campus \1aster Plan. a 10­
Y('ctr bu i!ding and renovation 
plan the Collegi~ began con­
struction Dn last yfrnr. 
ThP Welcome Center will 
havP an official dediration cere­
mony in early November. when 
tlw Board of Trustees will meet 
at Saint Mary's. 
The Welcome Center 
at Saint j\fary's will 
help visitors find their way around campus and learn about the College. 
Photos by Dorothy Carder 

Ry MOLLY McVOY 
Sa.int Mary's Editor 
The two most visible steps in Saint Mary's 10-year building project known as the Master Plan am nr~arly completed with the opening of the Welcome Center and the new Dalloway's Clubhouse. 
The clubhouse will open for student viewing today from 
3:30 tu 5 p.m.. the first time the building has been open to the public. 
''I'rn th ri11e d ,'' said Keith Dennis, vice president for Finance and Administration at the College. "Both the Welcome Center and Dalloway's are just wonderful buildings." 
The clubhouse is scheduled lo be completed by Sep!. 28 and to be in full oprration Oct. 1, according to Dennis. 
The clubhouse will have a funrtion similar to that of the old Dallowav's coffeehouse. The future or'thc old structure, which is located near Holy Cross Hall, is still to be deter­mined. 
Althougb built very closely to the specifications of the old building, the new clubhouse has a larger kitchen and improved bathroom facilities. It also is more structurally stable than the original building. 
"I think the location is really an improvement." Dennis said. "The kitchen is also now a full blown convertible kitchen." 
Sodexho. the business that 

provides dining hall services on 
campus, will run the new 
building. During the hours that 
Sodexho is not staffing the cof­
feehouse, a student-run coffee­
house service is expected to 
operate. 
The new clubhouse came in 

wake of some controversy sur­
rounding the old clubhouse. 
The Congregation of the Holy 
Cross was concerned about the 
noise the old clubhouse gener­
ated, and the College was con­
cerned about the stability of 
the building's structure. The 
College then decided to inrlude 
a new clubhouse as part of the 
Master Plan. 
In addition to food services, the clubhouse will serve a number of purposes for the students. Final planning for the usage and staffing of the dub­house is still underway. 
Are you interested in consulting as a potential




career? 
Do you ever wonder what IT consultants REALLY do? 

Learn about the prof'ession of'consulting through real project experience at the li*What is Consulting?,, panel discussion. 
Thursday, September 14th Sponsored by... 
6:30 p.m. -8:30 p.m. 
Deloitte 
CCE Room 210 

Consulting 



------------------------------~------------.------­
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 14, 2000 

Auschwitz 
continued from page I 
tlwy were just bt>ginning to have a dialogun about it. Thr. confor­Pnce WiL" rtmlly a first for peopln to conw togntlwr with an objf'r­tiw pt~rspp1•Jiv1~. without placing blamP on Parh otlwr." 
0 n Mon d av tlwv arrivccl at /\usr·hwitz l. tlw sitP or tlw r-on­li•rt•ncP. Tlwv tourPd th0 conc11n­trntion ranip bdorc. attPnding l1·rlurPs dirPrtly 11utsid1· of' tho 1'.lllllp. 
Thal night. 

tlw group "/ really saw people /with] or thnmselvflS sl1\pt outsid!' liulr understanding qf' and llrn world 
th1• camp's around them.
Pach otlwr and o.fthe

gatPs in a tlw "awaken­housf' that !Jw I /olocaust come to a ing" also raised 
prismwrs built deeper understanding morn questions 
fur a (i1:rman in the students·
r~f themselves and

oflirrr. minds humani­
"Visiting dtfferent cultures." ty's radical Ausrhwitz evils. was ov1•r­"I thought
Michael Signer 

wlwlming and after a wr,ek I 
Notre Dame theology professor

VP!'\' inl"orma­would know 
l iv,: al tlw Sll!lll' tinw," said WPlt'h. "I had 110 idna so many Jll'oplP bPsidt>s Jpws suf'­li•n·d in !\usrhwitz. It alfoctPd so many pnoplP." 
On Tunsday, tlw group tour<1d Aus<'hwitz I!. Ausrhwitz l's sistPr ramp and location of many of' the mass cxccu tions. Tlw sluclrrn ls saw tlw historiral aspp1·ts of thn ramp and W(\rl' Pxposl'd to many of tlw horrors that !H'l'lllTPd. 
Towards tlw ,,ncJ of llw wcl'k. s1wakr•rs frum around !Im world spokP about thP llolocaust's impart on tlwir liws. SignPr gave a spPPrh about Anwriran and .l1•wish llwology after tlw w,Lr. and stmknts had nightly round­tabll' disnrssions about thnir thoughts with students rrom Poland and (;ermany. 

PICTURE YOURSELF HERE 

Chicago style steaks 
m hassle-free down-



TONIGHT 
town South Bend. 
Pull up a chair 

You never know what will develop 
to a tender filet, 
when 1200 members of the class of 2001 
an extra thick t-bone, 

mix it up. 
or our specialty, 12 oz. of USDA prime New York strip steak. Lighter options, too. 


MEETING WEEK•v 
I.I 
222 S Michigan, South Bend 
"It was really interesting to see the others students' perspcc­tivAs." said Diaz. 
Thr. conversations mainly focused on the way different countri<'s dealt with the llolor.aust and the struggle betwenn Christians and Jews in Poland. 
"I rPally saw pPoplt) [with] little und<'rslanding of earh other and or the l lolocaust (',ome l() a deeper undnrstanding of tlrnmselves and ditfornnt culturns." said Signer. 
Though many in the group ramn away from the Pxprrience 
with a grcatnr 
understanding 
what hap­
pened and why it happened," said Flood. "I just ,ntlked away ·with a grPal!'r interest in the subjPct and morn quPstions than I had wlrnn l arrived." 
Tlw group all exprnssr.d their apprnciation towards '-/otre Dam<' for runding such a trip. 
"I hop,i that we can continue this program and give other studPnts the opportunity to experiPnce this," said Signer. 
"Notre Danw is tlw only place whnrn undergraduatl's can do soml'Lhing like this." said Diaz. "It really shows the school's commitmPnl lo us. 
"It wa.s an Pxperience that everybody should set~ and it is something that everyone nel'ds to Pxperience." 


ROTC 
continued from page I 
be." 
To begin tlrn dialogue. Zilligen and Shawn Storer of Pax Christi spok0 about just war theory and pari­tism, respertinly. 
Zilligcn told or one paci­fist student who changed his views after visiting the llotocaust Musr:um in Washington. D.C., and th() importancn tho military plays in protnr,ting Urn lives and rights ol' Americans. and innocent victims abroad. 
" Th t' h a rs h re a 1it v o f what he had scPn ·had changed his mind.'" Zilligen said. 
Thi' marine. who majors in governmnnt and thr.olo­gy. discussed how Catholics in the military should rt\main faithful to just war theory. which sPts out a sr-rins or guideli,rns which must be met f'or a war to be acceptable. Tlrnsc includn noncombatant immunity and military actions remaining in pro­portion to the goals of the war. among other things. And he said that fighting !'or thr: rights of otlwrs. likP pacifism. was a form ol' love. 
Storer prcscnlPd the paci­11st argument. And. pointing to tlrn Anrnrira's dropping of the atomic born b on lliroshima. the My Lai mas­sacre in ViPtnarn and one­sided dcwastation in tlw Gulf War. he said that r:ven faithful orl'icers arP some­times cornpcllrd lo do 
Enjoy dining out in a big way with JUICY 
things they would rather not. 
"Participation in thP mili­tary can mean partkipation in unjust and immoral acts by Catholic just war stan­dards," Storer said. 
lie called on the HOTC 
program to require its st.u­
den ts take a class on just 
war teaching. to encourage 
lhPm to consider these 
issues. 
And he said that combat is 
antithntical lo the message 
of the Bible. 
"Killing one's enemy makes it impossible to live Jesus' commitment to love them.'' Storer said. 
But thf1 focus or the <went was not 0ither sidP. of the debate, it was to foster dis­cussion betwenn people on both sides. Whfln the gath­ering brokl' up into small groups. mixes of IWTC stu­dents, Pax Christi membt•rs, and the uninvolved. discus­sion llourished. The groups talked for nearly an hour. going long after the nrneting was closed with a llail Marv. 
Tl1is was just thP first of several discussions about HOTC which l'ax Christi will hold this somPsler, and orga­nizers said it was a success. 
"It was very trncouraging. very hopeful to be able lo come together as Catholics and hold a certain under­standing of how wn am lo livo in the world," said Slwila McCarthy, a leader or tlrn pt>ace group. 
Zilligen agreed. 
"I think it went real well.'' he said. "It got a lot of pP.ople to think about things thoy weren't thinking about before." 

Assault 
continued from page I 
alleged incident. has bncn posted at various locations on campus. 
Chlt>bck is encouraging stuclPnts to be aware or any unusual activity on campus and to avoid walking alo1w. 
"II' you obst\rvn any suspi­cious bnhavior. plnasn rl'porl it to sec.urity.'' Chtobok said. 
!In is also asking studPnts to com<' to scicurity bef'orn trying to handlr disputns on their own. 
"If you're having a clonrns­Lic disputn with your boyfriend. drive ovt1r to st1ru­rity and ask for t.lrnir assis­tance," hP said. "Thal wilt dtH'.n!asn your chanrns or bning assaultml." 
Tlw SPrurity Dnpartnwnt is asking that anyo,w with in formation regarding tlw allegr.d assault rontart thP sP.rurity oflicn al 284-;iOOO. 

219-234-5200 





ATION 

Thursday, September 14, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Bomb strikes Jakarta building: A 
car bomb ripped through an underground garage in the Jakarta Stock Exchange building Wednesday, injuring at least 23 people and pos­sibly trapping others in choking smoke, police said. Jakarta police spokesman Lt. Col. l\'ur Usman said the blast came from a parked car and that authorities were trying to determine what type of explosive was used. "It could be a grenade, a bomb, or something f'lectrical," he said. 
France removes land mines: France has eliminated land mines from its weapons arsenal and should press other nations to do the same, a report said Wednesday, France won high marks from the National Commission for the Elimination of Anti-personnel Land Mines for destroying its arsenal of more than 1 million land mines by Dec. 20, 1999. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Hurricane off U.S. weakens: Hurricane Florence weakened into a tropical storm Wednesday afternoon, a day after being blamed for at least two __ deaths in North Carolina. Florence, which had sustained winds of 70 mph, could regenerate into a hurricane when it stops spinning in place off the southeast United States and moves east over warmer waters, forecasters said. "Over the last couple of days it's been mostly stationary, which has brought some of the cooler water to the surface, which has caused its weakening," said Eri_c Blake, meteorologist at the National Hurricane Center in Miami. 
Deputy killed during exercise: A sheriffs deputy was killed by a gunshot during a SWAT team drill that was supposed to have been run with dummy ammunition. Authorities were still investigating Wednesday how the live round got mixed in with the blanks used for training. Clackamas County Deputy Bill Bowman, 36, was killed Tuesday at a mock city constructed at the National Guard's Camp Rilea training center. He had been a member of the special weapons and tactics team for two years in the county outside Portland. "It was a tragic accident, and nothing more than that," chief deputy Pat Detloff said. 
MIT settles in death dispute: The Massachusetts Institute of Technology has agreed to pay $4.75 million and endow a schol­arship in a settlement with the family of a freshman who drank himself to death at a 1997 fraternity Initiation. Scott Krueger's parents, Bob and Darlene Krueger, said they reached the agreement, announced Wednesday, after two days of meetings with MIT president Charles Vest. 
Market Watch 9/14 

DO\Y/ 


11,182.18 +51.05

}ONES 

Composite Volume: 905,024,896 
Nasdaq: 3893.89 +44.38 
'~\;«@ 


S&P 500: 1484.91 -1-2.92 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE CISCO SYHEMS (CSCO) ,4.14 +2.tl 61.J I INTEL CORP (INTC) -5.68 .3 (,8 6125 KNIGHT TRADING (NITE)) +22.5 +6.62 36.06 CHASE MAN HAT CR (CMB) -4.02 -2.12 50.69 DELL CO,\IPUTER (DELL) .J.17 36.15
·l.18 
WASHINGTON 


Associated Press 

Armed with more data showing hate crimes often go unreported, President Clinton on Wednesday appealed to Congress to pass hate crimes legisla­tion. "Only Congress can do what really should be done here," he saiq. 
Onlv minutes later, the House agreed in a non­binding vote to make the hate crime legislation part of a defense appropria­tfrms bill. "Today, with this bill, we as a society say that we will do everything we can to protect people from these heinous acts, that we ,-vill not rest until Americans are free from all violence," said House Minority Leader Richard Gephardt, D-Mo. 
The House vote was 232­192. "This historic legislation will help fight hate crimes 
by strengthening the law and providing state and local prosecutors the tools they need to enforce it," Clinton said in a statement released after the vote. "I urge House and Senate conferees to act swiftly on this legislation so l can sign it into law." 
However, congressional sources who spoke on con­dition of anonymity said Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott told Clinton at the White House on Tuesday the hate crimes provision would not be made part of the defense bill. 
According to one source, Lott told Clinton, "we'll talk about it somewhere else, Mr. President," possi­bly as part of another bill. 
White House spokesman Joe Lockhart said Wednesday's vote was a strong statement of sup­port for tougher hate crimes laws, "regardless of whatever comments were made yesterday." 
"The Congress has an obligation to move on it this year," Lockhart said. 
Clinton convened an event at the White House to release a new report that shows information on hate crimes sometimes is not forwarded to the FBI. Victims of hate crimes tend not to report them and sometimes police lack sufficient training to han­dle such cases, according to the study, written by Northeastern University's Center for Criminal Justice Policy Research and by the Justice Research and Statistics Association of Washington, D.C. The Justice Department's 
Bureau  of  Justice  
Statistics paid  for  the  
report.  

He said a hate crime is "an even more dangerous kind of infection" than 

ordinary acts of violence. 
"I don't think any of us believe we can ever root it out just by punishing people," Clinton said. "The most important thing is that we do have the tools we need to take a strong stand before these things spread even wider." 
The President directed Attorney General Janet Reno to work with state and local authorities over the next three months on a plan to improve hate crimes reporting. 
He was joined by Sherialyn Byrdsong, the widow of Ricky Byrdsong, a former Northwestern University basketball coach killed in a 1999 hate-motivated shooting rampage, and Laramie, Wyo., police investigator David O'Malley, who han­dled the 1998 slaying of gay college student Matthew Shepard. 
China slams U.S. on missile defense 
Associated Press 

UNITED NATIONS 
China urged the United Nations on Wednesday to step in and stop the United States from deploying a missile defense system, saying the "dangerous" proposal could be detrimental to world peace. 
The comments by Chinese Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan were countered by a speech from Belgium's foreign minister, who said the NATO country was not opposed to such a missile system if it contributes to stability. 
Chinese Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan also criticized American policies on international interven­tion and human rights. 
With the historic U.N. Millennium Summit behind them, nations aired their concerns and hopes in the two-week ministerial debate at the General Assembly which opened Tuesday and continued Wednesday. 
Tang, the Chinese foreign minis­ter, attacked the proposed U.S. missile defense system, saying it "is essentially aimed at seeking unilat­eral military and strategic 
supremacy and thus a typical example of the Cold War mentali­
ty." 

Such a system "will only bring serious negative consequences to the security of the whole world," he warned, calling on the United Nations to "take necessary mea­sures to stop this dangerous devel­opment." 
China, as well as Russia, has opposed the missile shield plan, which President Clinton earlier this month decided not to authorize, deferring the decision to his suc­cessor. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 14, 2000 
Sollle colleges drop SAT requirement 
dent SAT score. Dickinson was to challengr a student beyond her By MARIBEL MOREY dropped from "highly competitive" to ability," she explained. News Wnter "less competitive" in college ranking "It's a good idea tu have SATs as a 
magazines after its f'irst year with standard b<icause Averyone comes At 8 o'dock in the morning on cer­
this policy. Since then, however, from different schools," said Kathytain S,iturdays, classrooms c1cruss the Dickinson has regained its place Bekhit. a sophomore science pre­
country are dutterf'd with rows of 
among "highly c:ompctitirn" colleges. professional major. identical d<\Sks. High school juniors 
Even though Dickinson managed The Notre Dame admissions office 
and St'.niors wait outside with their 
to remain among ranked colleges. does find a connection between calrulators. pendls and IDs. nf'rvous­
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will scores and academic success. 
ly anticipating the 500 bubbles they 
not be leaning in this direction any "We look at 200 studrnts who hrrve will have lo lill in. To some students. 
time soon because, according to both scored 1500 or above and 200 stu-
Lh<' SATs am part of th<' col!Pgc 
schools, SATs are den Ls who are process. but this is no longflr the case 
a good indirator of abo\'e 1200. 
for stud1mL1, applying to 285 accredit­how a student will "It's a predictor of doing 
When freshman

Pd :\nwrican colleges and universi­
perform during well at Saint Mary's. We grades are fin­
ties who have climinatrd standard­
freshman year. ished, there are
would never want to
ized tnsting requirement..'i. 
"If you make it more 3.8s in the 
Such universities include Indiana optional. who's challenge a student first group than in
State Univf'rsity. Wayne State 
going to submit it? the second
beyond her ability."
University, Citv University of New 
Of course. th~ ones group," saidYork. M.iddle.bury College and 
who scored high," Mundy.Dickinson Col!Age. said Bob Mundy, Mary Pat Nolan Unlike manySix vears ago, Dickinson chose to 
director of internal Saint Maiy's director of admission students, Tom 
make ·s/\T scores an optional part of 
operations in the Smith, also a 
lhP application. 
Notre Dame sophomore sci­
"Dickinson hm; always downplayed 

undergraduate admissions oftice. "! enr e pre-p rnfession al major,SATs. We've alwavs seen those 'A' 
don't see any piece of the application believes that the test did measure his 
studrmts in high school who have test dropping. and the higher the SAT academic abilities. 
anxietv and don't test well. and we scorn. the more likely you are to do "Standard testing is an accurate 
tell th.em that it's ok," said Kristy 
well here." and necessary means of <"valuating
Lnach. associate director of admis­
Mary Pat Nolan, director of admis­high school students,'' he said. 
sions at rnckinson. "They like that 
sion at Saint Mary's, agrees. Both Notre Dame and Saint Mary'sand it mnkes them more interested in "This is the only type of standard­stress that scorns are only a part of Dickinson." 
ized information a committee would the process.
Stud(!f1L<; have the option to submit have on a student, and I honestly "We don't even have a formula for 

their scores when they apply to 
don't think many schools are going accepting -it's not even that scien­Dickinson. Some students who did away from the SAT option." tific," said Nolan not submit their scores have had the 
Leach agrees that most schools Another consideration has to do 
opportunity to attend sr.hools other­r.annot eliminate these standardized with thf' fact that students come 
wise unaccessible to them. 
exams. from different parts Qf the world. 
"!fad we had their SAT score and 

"At bigger universities, they need With students of different culturalonly br.,ing in the 900s. it would have 
SAT scores because of the sheer and linguistic backgrounds, one probably jeopardized the decision. 
quantity of applications. I don't think standard American exam such as They would probably be on the wait­it would work at another institution," the SAT poses a problem.
ing list," said Leach. 
he said. "I grew up with two languages,
For ranking purposes. Dickinson 

Nolan is also concerned that with­and my parents couldn't have only reports the SAT scores submit­
out the scores. students would be taught me English as well as your
ted to the institution. 
misplaced in the College. parents could. Even stuff like that 
Because of this discrepancy 

"It's a predictor of doing well in affected me on the SAT," saidbetween the rnported average stu-
Saint Mary's. We would never want Bekhit. 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
SMC holds off Revue decision 
making a 11nal decision
By AMY GREENE 
without ever seeing a 
News Writer 

show." The decision to move Thn forum will ulti­
the Keenan Hevue off matdy decide the f'uturn 
Saint Mary's campus of the Revue and mem­
will be halted for now, bers of both Saint 
but will resume follow­Mary's and Kennan will 
ing the 2001 show, the be rcpresm1t.11d. 
Board of Governancfl After last week's meet­
said Wednesday. ing with Keenan reprn­
The Roard discussed sentatives. Nagln said. 
last week whether the 'They told us that if they 
event would continue to are pushed off this cam­
be performed on Saint pus there will no longnr 
Mary's campus due to be a Keenan Hevuc 
the controversial reputa­because ofl'unding." 
tion the show has devd­
oped over the years. In other BOG news: 
Representatives from . The Student the Boa.rd met with Diversity Board is in the Keenan Hall last week to process of' improving discuss plans for the handicapped accessibili­annual Revue. It was ty around campus. dr,cided that student . The Counseling and body president Crissie Career Development Benner and vice presi­Center has created a dent Michelle Nagle will new program callf'd Job sit in on the Keenan Direct. Students will be Revue Censorship Board able to submit resumes to help decide which to be put on filfl and skits will be performed allow employers across this winter. the country to· review 
A student forum to them. The Center is discuss the Revue will be also holding the annual delayed until after this Career Showcasfl on winter's show. Renner Nov. 9. Students can said. meet Saint Mary's grad­
"We will be preview­uates and other suc­ing everything and cessful employers and believe a forum is most are "giv<rn an exciting appropriate after the opportunity for possiblr, Keenan Revue," said career choices," said Renner. "I would feel counsAlor, Davn very uncomfortable Wilkeson. 


Celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month 2000! 
September 15th to October 15th is National Hispanic Heritage Month! 
During this month, America celebrates the Hispanic cultures, achievements, and heritage by commemorating Indepen­dence Day for Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua on September 15th, Independence Day for Mexico on September 16th and El Dia de la Raza on October 12th. Initiated by the U.S. Congress as Hispanic Heritage Week more than 20 years ago, the celebration has grown and expanded to a month in 1989. 
Jfarfatkf San Jtiouel & 
lnauouratian of 
r 
Rispanit Rerffaoe .MontIt 5:30-7 :30 p.m. @ Fieldhouse Mall 
Thursday, September 14th 
sponsored by La Alianza, the institute/or Latino Studies, and the Kellogg Institute 
c/ Cafecito con 
Ill=> leche with 

RAYBLANCO 
Ray is the founder ofthe New York Chapter ofthe Hispanic Academy of Media Arts and Sciences 
7:30 p.m. 

LaFortune Ballroom ­September 27th 
sponsored by MSPS, La Alianza and La Fuena 

&t/n ~/avor Nght 


5:00 p.m. SMC 

Lemans Hall Monday, September 18th 
sponsored by La Alianza and LaFuena 

lnterrace "Interracial Relationships in the Hispanic and Latino Communities" 
Dinner and Discussion 
Centerfor Social Concerns 
October 4th 
5:30 to 7:00 p.m. 

Ipon.Yored by MSPS and La Alianza 
Brown Bag Discussion 
I I I I I 
12:00 p.m. SMC Lemans Hall 
Wednesday, September 20th 
sponsored by La Alianza and La Fuena 
Luncheon w/ Renee Moreno l:I 
The Rfspanfe Alumni 
Board 

Renee is a Professor in UCLA~ Chicano Studies Research Center 
Friday, September 29th 12 p.m LaFortune Ballroom 
sponsored by MSPS, the HA ofND, and the 
Institute for Latino Studiel· 
Thursday, .Seprernber 14, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
STUDENT SENATE 
Senators: Punish alumni for selling Nebraska tickets 
lO, tlir.y are in disbo-

By IAURA ROMPF 
1inf' and shock," hn Ao.;siq~mt Nt\\'.... Edirui 
suiu "They arc in dis­
bolicf that the alumni 

Punishi11g alumni ,,,·ho rPsnll could sell their tickots th(•ir ti('.kds would send u and shocked that they nwssagP that rurrr~nt stud1rnts artually did." ar1' disappoint<'d about thl' Off-campus senator tickf'l sl'iling. thn Studnnt Phil Dittmar said even Sena.ti' said WPdnnsday night. though Im v,·as upsPt 
Likl' lllllSl or th<' student about the reselling, he bodv, s1·nalors wN1\ angnr<'d was proud or thP play­by itw amount of' rPd -thl' ers and studcnts, color n-orn bv N1\br1tska l';tns whose enthusiasm -in tlw st/11~ds at Salurdav's made thr gamPNPbrnska ganw and thn lack' or wortbwhilo. lovalt.y among alumni. Thn "I think w,~ c·.an be Sl'natP ofl'Prc'd a solution to proud o!' oursol\es pr(' V \\ 11 l th{' pr I) b Ip m rr() m and proud or our 
occurring 1tgai11. ti'am. I don't think we "I !ward a good suggf'stion n11ed t.o write the to makP tlw TnnnPSS!'P ganrn alumni a lettnr. theyParr•nt's \VPPkl'nd nn:xt \'Par," know they are sell­said Pangborn l fctll se"irnt.or outs and they know Kaitlvn lludl,·v. "!l's lnss likP!v they did wrong." he pan';1ls would sl'II their tick·­said. "Tlrn team nts, and jJ' that was done, tlrn f'ot1ght well and l alumni would rralizo thev know this wnr,k th1:y missed their chann· Lo atLcnd will fight again." a big gan1P." SonaLors agr,\cd this would In other senate sPnd a dear nwssag1• to alum­news: 
ni ,tnd possibly stop tlw prob• . Thr, committee on 
ftm1 of' ticket n'sPl!ing. academir affairs said 
"ThP tnq{Pdy this wc•ckcnd they are waiting to 
wasn't Llw ganw, it was that hf!ar bark from Susan 
wn lost our stadium," said 
Roberts. tho academic 30-minute lunch break when provides service to many stu­also in place at North Dining
Dillon llall S('nator Brendan 
delegate to the academic students could at least get dents, to discuss alternatives. Hall, which should make the Dowdall. council, to set up a meeting to Grab 'N Go. . The committee on residen­pasta room easier to maneu­l;SPN and the' AssociatPd discuss the possible loss of a . The committee on tial life met with dining hall ver in. Finally, the committee 
l'rl!SS had storiPs about the study day during finals week 
University affairs has com­employees and were informed informed the senate that two numbPr of Ncbrasku fans in in lhP fall 2001 semester. They pared phone rates with those that the Web site, new cold drinks -milkshakes 
NotrP Danw Stadium, Dowdall 
arc also looking into altering of other schools and. is meet­www.food.nd.edu, has nutri­and Microblasts, a drink simi­
noted. 
the Tuesday/Thursday class ing with Broadwing, the long tional facts for dining hall lar to Dairy Queen's Blizzards 
"From tlw playt\rs I talked 
schndule to allow students a distance phone company that foods. A new system of lines is -are available at Reeker's. 


5:30 p.m. Mariachi San Miguel and Inauguration of Hispanic Heritage Month, Fieldhouse Mall 
7:00 p.m. William Coughlan Book Talk and Signing, Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
7:30 p.m. Play, '!4s You Like It'; Washington Hall* 
8:30 
p.m.-10:30 p.m. Open Rec Lacrosse, Court 1, RSRC 

8:30 
p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, Lafortune Student Center 


9:00 p.m. Acoustic Cafe, Lafortune Student Center Huddle 
10:30 p.m. Movies, "Gone in 60 seconds'; DeBartolo 101* and ''28 Days'; DeBartolo 155* 
Friday. September 15 

5:00 p.m. Murray Sperber Book Talk and Signing, Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
6: 15 p.m. Flipside Golf Outing, Meet at Library Circle* 
6:30 p.m. Football Pep Rally, Joyce Center 
7:00 p.m.-10:00 p.m. Open Rec Badminton, Court 2, RSRC 
7:30 p.m. Play, '!4s You Like It'; Washington Hall* 
8:00 p.m. Movies, "Gone in 60 seconds'; DeBartolo 101* and ''28 Days'; DeBartolo 155* 
8:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, Lafortune Student Center 
9:00 
p.m. LaFun Coffeehouse featuring the jazz music of The Pat Heiden Quartet, Lafortune Ballroom 

9:00 
p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "Bye Bye Brazil', Snite Museum* 


10:30 p.m. Movies, "Gone in 60 seconds'~ OeBartolo 101* and ''28 Days': DeBartolo 155* 
Saturday, September 16 

7:30 p.m. Play, '~s You like It': Washington Hall* 
8:00 p.m. Movies, "Gone in 60 seconds", DeBartolo 101* and "28 Days", DeBartolo 155* 
9:00 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, ''Bye Bye Brazil'; Snite Museum* 
10:30 p.m. Movies, "Gone in 60 seconds'~ DeBartolo 101* and "28 Days", DeBartolo 155* *Denotes admission charge for ND/SMC students This calendar is compiled by the Student Activities Office. Programs are subject to change without notice. For up to date info check out the ND calendar, Today@ ND at www.nd.edu or call Student Activities at 631-7308. To add an event to further calendars, please send the details about the activity to sao@nd.edu. 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 14, 2000 
student union 
HAPPENINii§ 
WEEK OF SEPTEMBER 11-17 
Movies: Gone In 60 Seconds. 28 Days. 9/14. Thursday. 101. 155. De Bartolo 1030PM. Tickets: $2. 9/15. Friday. 101. 155. De Bartolo 0800PM & 1030PM. 9/16. Saturday. 101. 155. DeBartolo 0B00PM & 1030PM. 
Acousticafe. 9/14. Thursday. LaFortune Huddle 0900PM-1200AM. 
Pep Rally. 9/15. Friday. JACC 0630PM. 
Mini-Golf w/ FlipSlde. 9/15. Friday. Library Circle 0615PM. Tickets: $2. 
WEEK OF SEPTEMBER IB-i!4 
La Alianza and La Fuerza Latin Flavor. 9/18. Monday. SMC 0500PM. ISSA Presents American Culture through Music Dance Party. 9/21 Thursday. Alumni Senior Club 0500PM-0700PM. 
Movies: Road Trip. Wizard of Oz (Dark Side of the Rainbow) 9/21. Thursday. 101. 155. De Bartolo 1030PM. 9/22. Friday. 101 • 155. DeBartolo 0SO0PM & 1030PM. 9/23. Saturday. 101 • 155. DeBartolo 0800PM & 1030PM. Tickets: $2. 
Acousticafe. 9/21. Thursday. LaFortune Huddle 0900PM-1200AM. 
Hayride Campfire w/ FlipSlde. 9/22. Friday. Library Circle 0730PM. Tickets: $2. 
FUTURE EI/E/1/T§ 

"Cafechito con leche" w/ Ray Blanco. 9/27. Wednesday. LaFortune Ballroom 0730PM. 
Los Angeles Guitar Quartet. 9/28. Thursday. Hesburgh Library 0800PM. 
In Hall Dances. 

9/29. Friday. PW, Morrissey, Cavanaugh, Walsh, Alumni. Fisher, McGlinn 9/30. Saturday. Farley, Pangborn, Keough, Knott, Sorin 
Founders' Day Carnival. 10/5. Thursday. TBA TBA. 
Thursday, September 14, 2000 The Obsen1er . CAMPAIGN 2000 page 9 
Cheney: News has becoine trivial 
Associ.1ted Press 
GHAND HAPIDS. Mich. 

llopublican vice presidential 
r·anrtidatn Dirk Cheney lashed 
out at news organizations 
Wednl\sday. saying they focus 
too much on "absolutelv trivial 
issues" during electir/n cam­
paigns. 
Ch1nrny. spr'aking to a busi­
ness club during a campaign 
swing through western 
Michigan. said intensc competi­
tion among news outlets appar­
ently has changr~d the way that 
campaigns am ('overed. oven 
whr>n romparnd with election 
coveragP dono only a fow years 
ago. 
ThP nl1rd to produce stories 
for a growing number of 
lntnrnot-based news sites and 
24-hour cablr trlovision nriws 
channels may be partially 
rrsponsiblP for changing the 
way journalists cover cam­
paigns. Chern~y said in rnsponse 
to a question from the audience. 
"So you Pnd up with absolutf'­
ly trivial issues dominating an 
entir<' (news) cyclo or maybe 
two cydrs -an cntirn 24 or 48 hours -that really have noth­ing to do with the.election or the fate of America or how the cam­paign ought to bP decided." he said. "The way that works serves to distra.ct everybody and to take thA focus off the basir issues that we ought to be con­cerned about." 
Chenoy said many complex issues such as taxes, the Social Security system. Medir,are and military readinrss are 
"

.. . Now it's a media
dift'irult and cials for being time-consum­mechanism, discussing .vtonday-morn­lng for jour­ing quarter­
trivia. It's a source of 
nalists to backs.
frustration."

report on. "It's always 
"It's much ra.srinating for easier, Dick Cheney me to watch frankly. to and see that
vice presidential candidate 
cover some of the trivial stuff that from time to time seems to dominate (campaign news coverage) .and we get one of these feeding frenzies," he said. "But it is unfortunate because what happens is, it does not lead to informed 
debate and dialoguti. It moans you've got this hug<' news mechanism, now it's a m.,dia mechanism. discussing trivia. It's a source of some frustra­

tion." 

While acknowledging the importance oi' press freedom. ChPney said there should "be some degree of accountability with respect to how they per­form during Lhe course of an election." 
He chided reporters whose 
work is critical 
of elected offi­
· those of us 
who get in the arena, put our names on the ballot, go out and slug it out ev('ry day for something WP believe in, spend all of our time being critiqued by people who've never been in thf: arrna, never will get in the arena, sit in the bleachers and do well sec­()nd-guessing." 
Gore platform focuses on education issues 
Associated Press 
LEWISTON. Maine 
Al Gore rolled off a bor­rowed sofa bed at 6 a.m. and into an 18-hour grit-to-glitz jumble of campaigning. · 
Before the Boston ferry ride, the wharf­side rallv and the $1 million supper concert with James Taylor, the Democratic presidential nominee spent eight hours hustling around Lewiston High Srhool's chalk­dusty classrooms. pushing his campaign proposals to make higher education more acces­sible and affordable. 
Fifty-five days to the elec­tion, Gore's day began after four hours sleep at the home of Lewiston High teachers Don and Susan Jalbert. Twelve­year-old daughter Marissa lent him her study room for the night, N'Sync posters and all. 


"Getting .a diploma is not the end of an education, but just the beginning." the vice presi­dent said at the school. "We need to make college educa­tion and skill training avail­able for a lifetime." 
In his education debate with Republican rival George W. Bush. Gore hopes to prevail with proposals to make up to $10,000 in tuition expenses tax deductible and to offer a credit to people without enough income to benefit from the deduction. 
Also included in the $170 billion additional federal spe,!ding that Gore has pro­posed for education over 10 years, is a 401 (k)-styled sys­tem letting parents -and working professionals eyeing advanced degrees -a tax­free, inflation-protected nest 
'F~=-~~==""======----=-.....---=------=--'"'==-='=...,..-===-=~-=='3=....,~-==--~-==""""='ol egg for tuition. 

Find everything you need to know about grad school at www.petersons.com/campus 

YOU'RE FOCUSED. YOU'RE DETERMINED. 
ANDYOU HAVE NO IDEA WHAT YOU'RE DOING. 
Gathering information for grad school can be absolutely mind-boggling. At Petersons.com, you'll find detailed information on programs, student loan information, online practice tests and on!ine applications. Go to Petersons.com. And un-boggle that brilliant mind of yours. 
PETERSONS.COM  
THOMSON LEARNING  ONUNEAND INPRINT  /4V  
AOL Keyword: Peterson's  

Teaching an hourlong American history .class under I the gaze of news cameras, Gore anxiously -but with no flubs -helped students with : questions on everything fromI voting age changes to an Elvis 
' letter on patriotism. 'Tm glad I picked one I hap­pened to know," he quipped, taking a question on how vice presidents were selected in pre-Electoral College days. In another classroom, Gore. fatigue etched around his eyes, took a desk under a pic­ture labeled "Prehistoric Man." He put a rambling, wistful twist on his proposal for "a national expectation" that schools bring parents in at the beginning of each school year to sign agreements on disci­pline standards and encourage involvement in the life of the school. 
eTightinglrish.cem 
,The Marketplace! 
LOW 
student 
Airfares 
Eurailpasses 
MoreThan 100 Departure Cities 
Study Abroad 
¦ c=•. 
student URIV8rs8 ~ 
IT'S YOUR WORLD. EXPLORE IT 
studentuniverse.com 
800.272.9676 

Thursday, September 14, 2000 
page l O -.. The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Calendar of Events 
August 28-September 18 103 Hesburgh Library 
Freshmen Retreat #30 Sign-up Targeted Dorms: Badin, Keenan, Lewis, O,Neill, Pasquerilla East, St. Edward's, Morrissey, Walsh, and Zahm 
Sunday, September 17. I:30 pm Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
Spanish Mass Presider: Rev. Felipe Morel 
Sunday, September 17, 7:30 pm Momgomecy: Theater 
Africentric Spirituality: Sankofa Scholars Honors Assembly 
Tuesday. September 19. 7:00 pm Badin Hall Chapel Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, September 19. 7:00 p.m. Siegfried Hall Chapel Confirmation Session #1 
Wednesday, September 20, 10:00 pm Walsh Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Twenty-fourth Sunday in Ordinary Time 
Weekend Presiders 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, September 16 Mass 
30 minutes after game 
Most Rev. Robert N. Lynch Bishop, St. Petersburg. Florida 

Sunday, September 17 Mass 
8:00 a.m. 
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, c.s.c. 

10:00a.m. 
Rev. Richard V. Warner, c.s.c. 

11:45 a.m. 
Rev. Thomas P. Doyle, c.s.c. 

Stepan Center 
Saturday, September 16 Mass 
45 minutes after game 
Rev. John A. Herman, c.s.c. 

Scripture Readings for this Coming Sunday 
1st Reading  Is 50: 5-9a  
2nd Reading  Jas 2: 14-18  
Gospel  Mk 8: 27-35  

World Youth Day: 
Bringing it Home 
by Fr. Bill Wack ,csc 
"At the end ofthis World Youth Day, as I look at you now, at your young faces, at your genuine enthusiasm, from the depths ofmy heart I wane to give thanks to God for the gift of youth, which continues to be present in the church and in the world because ofyou." 
Thus Pope John Paul II concluded his homily at a Mass in a huge field just outside Rome with two million young people from all over the world a few weeks ago. He spoke in glowing terms about how youth and young adults are stepping up more and more and embracing the Gospel ofpeace and love. Looking out over the vast throng ("a carpet ofhumanity", in his own words), the Pope was visibly moved and thanked us foe coming and for foHowing Christ. 
I was privileged to attend WYD in Rome this month with several students from this community. We had been planning and praying for this trip since before last Christmas. We wanted to go for ourselves and for our school. We joined people from over 160 countries and added our voice to theirs in a single song ofpraise to God. We went as pilgrims, not as tourists. We left renewed and challenged, ready to carry the message to all parts of the globe. 
And what was the message?  
"Today you have come together to  Simple: Christ loves you. PopeJohn  
declare that in the new century you  Paul said, "Yes, dear friends, Christ loves us, and he loves us forever! He  
will not let yourselves be made into  loves us even when we disappoint  
tools of violence and destruction; you  him, when we fail to meet his expec­tations for us." We, for our part, need  
will defend peace, paying the price  to accept that love and let it trans­ 
in your person if need be.1'  form our lives. It should move us to share love with others, to live as Jesus  
-Pope John Paul II to the 2 million young people gathered in Rome this summer for World Youth Day.  lived, to make moral choices and stand up for the Gospel. This love demands a response.  
We cannot simply stand back and  

wait for others to lead. The youth are not just the future of the church. We are the church now. Again and again in his three major speeches, the Pope challenged us with words that were direct and non-apologetic. He wasn't suggesting anything; he was stating a fact: 
"Today you have come together to declare that in the new century you will not let your­selves be made into tools ofviolence and destruction; you will defend peace, paying the price in your person ifneed be. You will not resign yourselves to a world where other human beings die ofhunger, remain illiterate and have no work. You will defend life at every mo­ment of its development; you will strive with all your strength to make this earth ever more livable for all people." 
When the Pope spoke ofa "[N]ew martyrdom, the martyrdom of those who are called to go against the tide in order to follow the divine Master," the roar of the crowd rivaled that heard in the stadium last Saturday. They wanted more. They chanted and yelled 11Dear young people of the century and waved and sang. It was a pep rally 
now beginning, in saying 1 yes' to 
for Jesus -unlike anything I've ever seen before. Christ you say 1 yes' to all your The overwhelming success ofWYD 
noblest ideals. I pray that he will 
showed that the Pope is right on target about a couple ofthings: Young people reign in your hearts...Have no fear are trying hard to be faithful, they are 
ofentrusting yourselves to him! He 
willing to give over everything for Christ, 
will guide you, he will grantyou the
and they want to be challenged. The Spirit is at work in the world, strength to follow him every day moving heans to respond lovingly to 
and in every situation.''

God's initial act oflove. The enthusiasm 
and faith seen a few weeks ago in Rome 
is not a fluke; it's a sign ofthe times. 
-Pope John Paul 11, World Youth Day
And here in our little part ofthe world we can -and will -stand up for the Gospel. 
"Dear young people ofthe century now beginning, in saying 'yes' to Christ you say 'yes' to all your noblest ideals. I pray that he will reign in your hearts and in all ofhumanity in the new century and the new millennium. Have no fear ofentrusting yourselves to him! He will guide you, he will grant you the strength. to follow him every day and in every situation." 
.. 
O'MPUS 
/V11NISTRY 


Thursday, September 14, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Judge frees scientist Wen Ho Lee 
Associated Press 
ALBUQUEHQCE, N.M. 

Ninr' months after he was 
brnndr.d a threat to national 
security and put in solitary 
conlinnmrnt. Wrn !lo Lee was 
set !'me W<~dnesday with an 
apology from a judge who said 
the govPrnmcnt's actions 
"pmbrrrrassed our r,ntirc 
nation." 
Supporlcrs chnercd as a 
smiling IPc lrf't tlw rnurlhousr. 
alongsidn his l'amily and altor­
nrys. IIr lhankl'd his support­
Prs and said. 'Tm very happy 
lo go horn<' with my wife and 
childrnn today " 
With a chuckle, he added: 
"Th<' next fflw days. I'm going 
lishing." 
1\ 1'1~w hours latPr, the 
diminutive. graying scientist 
,nis swamped by a crowd of 
about I SO support(~rs in the 
bar·k varrl of his neighbors, 
who wavr.d flags and signs and 
sallg "For !!e's a Jolly <.iood 
h'llm.\ " 
"Tlw last nine months were prt·tty tough !'or me," hP said. 
"but I survived " embarrassed our entire nation 
Lee. 60. plnaded guilty to a and each of us who is a citizen i;ingle count of mishandling of it." nuclear secrets as the govern­Ler,, a Taiwanese-born natu­ment all but abandoned its ralized C .S. citizen, read a crumbling case against the for­statement in <:ourt in whkh he mer Los Alamos scientist. admitted using an unsecure 
Under the terms of the pica computer to download a 
bargain, hP was sen­

"The last nine months 
tenced to 27 8 davs were pretty tough for me, essentially 
but I survived. " 
the time served since his arrest Wen Ho Lee 

I a s t former Los Alamos scientist December. Lee had b e c n charged with 59 counts of rized. 
national­defense docu­ment onto a tape. He said he knew his possession of the tape out­
side of Urn 
top-secret area where he worked was unautho­
br<'aching national security Lee agrr>ed to r.ooperate with and faced life in prison if con­the government and tell them victed. Fifty-eight or those everything he knows about counts wrre dropped. seven missing tapes. 
"I sincerely apologize to you, The ~overnment said that the Or. Lee, for the unfair manner fate of thr, tapes was para­in whic.h you were held in cus­mount and that Lee's willing­tody by the executive branch." ness to explain what happened 
U.S. District Judge James to them was the turning point Parker said. in 2-month-old plea discus­
ParkP,r said thP Departments sions. LcP has said the tapes of' Justice and Enrrgy "have wern destroyed. 
Clinton, Lazio battle fiercely in first debate 
Associated Pre,.,s 
BUFFALO, N.Y. 
In the first debate of their Senate campaign. Hillary Hodham Clinton repeatedly attacked Republican Rep. Rick Lazio on Wednesday as too con­servative for New 
Y o r k . L a z i o responded by trying to link the first lady to the policies and even the peccadi!loP,s of her hus­band. 
The often sharp exchanges includrd one where he walked to her side and tried unsuccessfully to get her to sign a pledge to bar soft money from their campaigns. After having his pledge 



We didn't become Fortune· magazine's America's Most Admired Company* by accepting the status quo. We got there by hiring and training confident graduates with the courage to think in innovative and revolutionary ways. 
No other corporation can match the diversity of oppor­tunities at GE. Because we have small company attitudes with large company strengths, we set no limits, no boundaries. You can move from industry to industry, discipline to discipline, and never leave GE. 
We're a leader in every business we compete in, and we're looking for leaders like Thanh who will take us even further. Start your career by visiting our website now. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Learn about us at , , ,, ·' 
www.gecaree,:~~com ~, 

Dave Overbeeke, e-Business LeaderofGEAircraft Engines will talk about Business to Business e-commerce. 
September 15th 10:30AM 12:00 PM 
Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College ofBusiness 

We bring good things to life. 
GE Aircraft Engines• GE Appliances• GE Capital Services· GE Corporate Research and Development • GE Industrial SySlems . GE Global oXchange Services, GF. liqhting • GE Medical Systems· GE Plastics· GE Power Systems· GE Supply· GE Transpona11on Systems· NBC '2/21/00 
waved in her face, she told 
him "that was a wonderful 
performance." 
''I'm not asking you to 
admire it, I'm asking you to 
sign it," he shot back. 
The televised debate, mod­
erated by NBC's Tim Russert, 
was aired on NBC stations 
ar,ross the state. In a sign of 
the wide interest the race has 
generated. it also was aired 
later on the cable new net­
work MSNBC. 
Clinton was asked if she felt 
she should apologize to the 
American people for mislead­
ing thr.m during the Monica 
Lewinsky scandal, when she 
blamed her husband's trou­
bles on "a vast right-wing 
conspiracy." 
"Obviously I didn't mislead 
anyone. I didn't know the 
truth and there's a great deal 
of pain associated with that," 
she said. "That was a very 
painful time for me, for my 
family. for our country. 
Lazio responded by saying 
"blaming others ... has 
become a pattern for my 
opponent." He also reacted 
sharply to Clinton's attempts 
to link him to Newt Gingrich. 
the conservative former 
House speaker. 
"You, of all people. 
shouldn't try to make guilt by 
association," he said. "Newt 
Gingrich isn't running in this 
race. I'm running in this race. 
Let's talk about my record." 
He der,lared at one point 
that Clinton's education 
record as first lady in 
Arkansas was dreadful and "l 
don't think we need that 
Little Rock record in the Big 
Apple." 
Both the first lady and the 
congressman had sought to 
lower expectations before the 
debate -she saying she had 
never done it before and 
Lazio saying that while he 
had been in political debates. 
"this is a different league." 
Analysts said the stakes 
were highest for Lazio. the 
still little-known congress­
man from Long Island. in 
what was the rirst of three 
planned televised debates. 
"He's got to prove hP can 
fight in the heavyweight divi­
sion," said :\1aurice Carroll. 
head of the Quinnipiac 
University Polling Institute, 
before the debate. "ShP 
doesn't have to do much of 
anything except not screw 
up." 

After thinking for a 
moment, he added, "She's got 
to be nice." 
Across the state. reaction 
was rnixnd. 
"Everybody who would like 
to slap her, raise your hand," 
said Artbur Deruve. 66. of 
Yonkers. who watched the 
debate at the Sons of Italy 
Lodge in White Plains. 
But others said the f'irst 
lady did well. 
"I think that Mrs. Clinton overall made a better show­ing. I think she ar,tually answered questions more directly. Mr. Lazio was very evasivo," said Craig Goldstein of New Paltz, a registered independent who was unde­cided on who ni1 will vote for. 
"I think she's exceptionally bright," add,~d Phyllis Granat, an undecidPd voter from Manhasset. "Shn's a rar better debater but shn has a long way to go before she convinces me to votn for her." 
page 12 The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 Thursday, September 14, 2000 
Gore associate unexpectedly receives Bush debate plans 
to tlin FBI to dPtNminP wlwther cials whcn' tlwv can d01LI with in during Bush dcbatn sessions. GorP's dnbat<' prnparations "To till' docunwnts and tapr w1·rr them appropriatPly." according to two lkmonatir do so would dishonor a gr1\at "il!Pgally obtain1•d from tlir• Fabiani said (;orr's staff did lm,vyers who spoke on condition Anwrican tradition of' op<'n and 
\\'AS! IIN(tJ'ON 

Bush campaign," said Con~ not know for c<\rlain whcthPr of' anonymity. horwst dPbat0.s." .\ parkagl' containing docu­
spokPsman tlw packagP was The package (;or0 chairman William Dal1iyrnPnts and a vidl'11lapt> n•lating M a r k a hoax or artual "Clearly, this is came with a post­ca II ed Bush diai rm an llo n 
l!l (;porgl' \V. Bush's dPbatP 
Fabiani. Bush campaign something that mark from Evans to notify him about the' 
pn·parali11ns was rnys!l'riously 
"Clearly, mat Prial Austin, Tnxas, packagP.
should not have been
dPlivnr1•d to a c;orp ('onl'idanl 
this is Downcv, how0.v­horn0. of Bush's Bush spok1'sman Ari Flnisclwr \V1•d1wsday. Tlw FBI was askPd somPthing er. h·as told sent to me." headquart0.rs. said: ''W0 would lik<' to rPViPw 
to illVf'Sligatf'. 
that should associal.Ps lw is Thr. rPturn thc mat.Prial. Our attorrwvs 
II was undPar wlwllwr tlw 

not hav!' convincl'cl thP addrnss inrlud0.d haw askPd to n•vi<1w it." •
Tom Downey

rnat1·rial was !PgitimatP. 
b1'Pn sPnt to material is l<'git­a send0.r's namr Bush communications din•<:­
Torn l>o\\'llPV. a f'ornwr con­former Congressman
Ill 1• ' ima tn, in pan but Downey did tor Karnn I luglws said Urn cam­
gn·ss111a11 wh1,.has bP1'11 hl'lping 
I) 1, w n P y because Ill' s11w not tTcogniz«' it. paign is not conducting an tlw vi1·P pri•sidPnl pri•parl' f'or 
said in a !lush in what his attorney said. int,•rnal inv1•stigation bnrausP 
dPbat11s against Bush. tunwd statPmPnl. "I haVP dirncLPd that appParPd !(1 lw a mork dnbatP "Using thns0 matPrials was pcopln who had "IPgitimatn
tl11• mat1•rial ovt>r to his lawvPr. 
all ol' tlH' matl'l'ials b0 turnnd with SPll . .Judd cn~gg, Il-N .11., 1W\l'J' an option,·· said Down0.y, access" to tlw tap<•s Wl'rH VPry
Tlw atlornPy gavP llw park.aw· 
ovrr to law Pnl'orcement ol'f'i-who is sPrving as c;on''s stand-who had been playing Bush in fow. 



Thursday, September 14, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 13 
Judge: Buchanan is Reform nominee 
Associated Press 
LONG BEACI I, Calif. 

;\ California judgr. d<iclarnd l'al Buchanan thn trun Hr.form Party prosidr.ntial nominer. on Wtidrrnsday, dealing anothor sr.tback to rival John 1-lagelin. 
Sup(irior Court Judge Janrns Wright ordr.rPd llagelin not to r'.ampaign as tlw party's nomi­llP('. and I lagdin said Im would honor that ruling, both in Calil'ornia and nalionwid,,. In thr nwantimn. his lawyr.r said h<' would sePk to dolay thr. !'ore<' of thr. ruling whilr. app<'.aling it. 
llagr.lin said hr. would contin­ue to campaign as th(i Natural Law Partv candidatr. and also would sr.e·k broader support. 
"We're moving ahead dynam­ically with what Wf1 hope will be a vf1ry high-profile cam­paign," he said in a telephone interview. 
"The Reform Party that we knew and loved under !loss P,"rot has been killed." he said. 
The judge's ruling came one day after the Federal Eier,tion Commission (Fl•:C) in Washington said in a pr<olimi­nary ruling that $12.6 million in f'ederal campaign funds br.long to Buchanan. 
Final FEC approval, expected Thursday, would authorize the Treasury to send Buchanan a check. though llagelin's camp said it would appeal that move. too. 

"This is a huge victory for the Reform Party and our cam­paign," Bay Buchanan. the can­didate's sister and campaign chairwoman, said of Wednesday's ruling by the judge. "This decision, together with the Federal Elr.ction Commission ruling, settles once and for all that Pat Buchanan is the nominee of the Reform Party." 
Wright ruled that when the part/s national convention split in two in Long Beach last month, the faction aligned with Buchanan conducted the prop­er convention in keeping with the party's constitution. 
UNIVERSITY HEALTH SERVICES 
is seeking energetic and motivated students interested in serving on the 
STUDENT WELLNESS ADVISORY BOARD 
Applications are due FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15 
For more information and an application please go to 
http://www.nd.edu/...... uhs/swab/ 
Selma readies for first black mayor 
Associated Press 
SELMA, Ala. 
The former segregationist ousted as mayor after 36 years in office on Wednesday offered encouragement to the man v.ho will become the city's first black mayor, say­ing "blacks can govern as well as whites." 
Voters overwhelmingly rejected Joe Smitherman's bid to seek a 10th term and chose James Perkins as his successor. Smitherman. 70, was elected mayor in 1964, about six months before authorities attacked voting rights marchers on Selma's Edmund Pettus Bridge. 
"If he becomes his own man, I believe he will be a very good mayor," Smithmman said of Perkins. "Blacks oan govern as well as whites. Mr. Perkins is just as smart as I am." 
During the campaign, Smitherman had upset the opposition by remarking that city government would become all black and busi­nesses would leave town if Perkins won the election. 

But after watching many Selma citizens celebrate Perkins' victory in city streets late into election night, Smitherman said Wednesday that he believes the city still has a bright future. 
"His biggest problem will be getting the white business community to accept a black mayor. lle's going to have to include the white community in his plans, but I think he realizes that," Smitherman said. 
Perkins, who takes office on Oct. 2, denied requests for interviews on Wednesday. But residents welcomed the change and doubted the elec­tion of a black mayor would cause whitP flight. 
"Change is good. Perkins is a fair man. I don't think there will be an exodus. Where are people going to go?" said Michael Hayes, a Selma store owner. 
"The truth is, in this town. black and white, we're going to live and die together. As soon as everybody under­stands that, the better off we will all be," said llaycs, who is black. 

Aryan leader Butler challenges judgement against supremacists 
Associated Press 

COEUR D'ALENE, Idaho 
Aryan Nations leader Richard Butler on Wr.dnesday filed a 
notice of his intent to appeal last week's $6.3 million judg­
ment against his white supremacist sect. 
The move was expected to delay by at least two weeks the 
court-ordered seizure of property from the group's northern 
Idaho compound near Hayden Lake, Kootenai County Sheriff 
Rockv Watson said. 

Butler, his organization and its corporate entity. Saphire. 
Inc., were found negligent in selecting and overseeing securi­
ty guards who assaulted a mother and son, Victoria and 
Jason Keenan. outside the compound in 1998. 
A copy of the appeal notice. which Watson sent to 
reporters. indicates Butler did not post an appeal bond that 
would shield Arvan Nations property from seizure pending 
the outcome of the appeal. 
On the notice, Butler states that he is exempt from paying various filing fees due to indi­gence. A handwritten portion says the appeal to the Idaho Supreme Court is expected to be based on "all issues." 
Plaintiffs lawyer Kenneth Howard, reached at his Coeur d'Alene home, said he expect­ed to prevail in any appeal. 
Morris Dees, the civil rights lawyer who led the plaintiffs' legal team, has said he expected the judgment to bring a quick end to the Aryan Nations and its racist. anti­Semitic message. 
A rourt order giving the sheriff's department authority to seize assets was signed Tuesday, and Watson had indicated Im planned to brgin removing property from tlrn compound in thP next few davs. 
Butler has been ordPred to appPar at an Ort. 13 hParing to tcstil'y under oath about his assets. 
Visit The Observer Online. 
':' 

http://observer.nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 14 BSERVER Thursday, September 14, 2000 
===========--================================================--===================== 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. !lox Q, Nor« Dame. !N 4G'i56 024 South ()ininl!, Hall. Notre Damo, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEI' Mike Connolly 

MANAGING El>IIOR  8US!NE.5~ MANAGER  
Norc:en Gillespie  Tim Lane  
Assr. MANAGING En1roR  Orf.RATIONS MANAGER  
Christine: Kraly  Rrian Kessler  

NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mminr,ly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Hau~hey SroRTS Enno1u Kerry Smi1h SCENE Et11T0R: Amanda Greco SA/NT MARY'S El>IT0R: Molly McVoy PHOTO El>ITOR: El1zabcd1 l.rng 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Pat Peters Al> DL,IGN MANAGE!l: Chris Avil.1 SYSTl'MS AnMIN!srRII.T0R: Mike Gunville WEB Al>MINISTRAT0R: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Bob Woods GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OIFICE MANAGI.R/GENLRAL INFO .............G31-7471 
F!I.X... ............6J 1-6927 AtlVERTISING..................................631-6900/8840 obscrverf(0 da rwin. cc.nd .edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF....................................... 631·4542 
MANA<;tNc; EDITOR/ASST. ME .................... G.'1 l •454 I BUSINESS OFFICE.. ......................................631 -5313 NEWS.............................. .........................631-532.'I observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT................................................631-5303 observer.vi,.wpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS..... ...............................................6.~ l •4 543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
ScENE.. ....................................................GJ!-4540 
observcr.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu l'IIOTO. .... .. .................63 l ·8767 SYSTEMS/WEB Al>MINISTRAT0RS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
\',sit our Web sire at h"p:llobstrvt'r.udedu for daily updJtes of campus news, sports, foamres and opirnon columns, as well as cartoons. reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to·thc movies/music tl1r mi muc fi.Jrec;1.,;cs weekly smdenr reviews 
adveni,e for policies 
online features for spe­
and r,uc:s of pri 111 ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to sc.11d1 1,>r 
about The Observer 
,mides published atier 
to meet the edimrs dnd 
August 1999 
sraff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online hy the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lie and Saint Mary's College. Editorial COlll<elll, including ,1dverrisements, is nm gnvernnl hy policies of the adminisirarion ofeither institution. The Ohserver reserves the right to refuse ad\'nrlsemcnt~ ha~ed on content. 
!'he new, i, reported ,L, accurately and objectivtly as l'"'·"hl.-. Umig,wd eclitorials represent the opinion ot' th<' maJority of rhe Etlitor 111 Chief, Managing Editor, Asmtant Managi11g Editor and deparrmem editors. l :ommentarics, letters ,ind columns prl'sent the views of die audrnrs and not necessarily those ofThe ()bserver. 
Viewpoint ,pace is dVJilable to all re,1ders. The free expression of all opinions chrough leners is encouraged. IAtlrrs m tbc hlitor must be signed .rnd mu~, include co111an informarinn. 
Qurstinm reg11rding ()hsrr11er polirits sho11ld be dirrct­rd m l:dit111' 111 (.hit/'Miltr Cimr,o/ly. 
Further praising Notre Dame 
Although it may be unfashionable to writ<1 good things abuut Notre Dame, I'm guing Lo continue to do so, until someone takes away my ink pen (sorry to put in a reference to the Dark Ages, but, people my age actually used them in for­mer days). 
Within the past week. a college to the north of us. which I won't name here (but which has a lot of cows graz­ing on their campus and people actually get academic credit for milking them) enrolled two foot­ball stars with dubi­ous citizenship hon­ors. Both players were football stars. Both also were charged with sexually assaulting a 13-ycar-old girl. Tho one player was admitted after he pled no contest (guilty) to a reduced charge; tlrn other player is arguing to withdraw his statement that the sex was consentual. As bad as these college admissions were (I suppose they had to hurry before Tennessee or Florida State grabbed them). what was worse were the com­ments from the Vice President of University Relations: "We admitted (these young men) because we thought they deserved an educational opportuni­ty." 
Hight. And, how many other predatory assailants. who can't pass and throw, are they recruiting'? If I were that V.P., I'd be asking for a big raise, after being forced to compromise my integrity in such a way. 
Contemporaneously. a little south of' here, there has bmm turmoil on the campus of one of the other top universi­ties in the countrv. It seems that this col­lege, for thn past.three dccadns. has had a coach with a split personality. Part of this guy -tlrn biggest part, perhaps -is 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
kind, thriftv, charitable and most of those other Boy Scouty-type things (I left out obedient). Another part of this guy is Miko Tyson on a bad day. While I was watching this guy's valedictory interview with ESPN, I got a phone call and muted the volume -watching him. without hearing his words, is pretty frightening. This is not a guy you want to cross. And he claims he doesn't know what "zero tolerance" means! I can tell him what it means ­Earth to Bobby: It means what you've been preaching for the past four decades. It means blowing a gasket when some­one says, "Whazzup Knight?" 
Notre Dame is not a per­fect place, but we don't recruit players out of the felony courts and we don't hav<! hoopsters demanding the ousting of the Chancellor. And we didn't bri11g in Randy Moss, <wen though he might havP been 
line as the replacements for Arnaz. 
As an alumnus and long time f'an, I am disappointed that so many Notre Dame p1;ople traded their fan loyalty for a few pieces of silver, but I was very pleasnd to hear that the people in green sounded louder than I've heard in a long time. 
Although it must have bcnn painful !'or the players to pull themselves together to do their salute to t.lrn stud1;nt body, I was v1\ry proud of' them for that and PXCMding­ly proud of' our students f'or rnsponding as though tlrn Irish had def'catnd and not merely tied, tlrn 'Huskers. 
Just so I won't app<1ar to be bashing every college in my praising of' Notre 
Dame, let mn say some­thing about our opponents. At thn nnd of nvnry garrn~. 

my top Stadium Usher l'PrsonnPI arn asked to givn 1 a rating for tlw visiting team, on a "1-1 O" scale. I also factor in thn !kid llwcl 
worth a few wins and the ..,.,,,;.,:;;;~..,~--•, conduct I obsnrve, both .day prior coach was willing to •it..,: ..:r,--,,.:-,.. ,h, of game and on the prnv10us adopt him. .-·. ·· ·f•>i~• •.1..., i,,;/ day's Stadium walk through. 
While we didn't get the win we wanted on Saturday. I could not be more proud of the Irish after the 21-21 Nebraska tie. I saw more hitting, passion and will to win than I can remember. I also made up my mind that I don't want Anthony Denman and Hocky Boiman to ever become mad atmc. 
There were heroes all over the place (none of whom have I ever seen in hand­cuffs.) Julius .Jones and .Joey Getherall brought back memories of "The Rocket." It was great to see both our dofense and ' our special teams being a wPapon. 
The olTense is showing signs of coming together. If' J\rnaz can gain over 100 yards. against the top team in the coun­try, with a broken arm, I wonder how good he can really be. And I think Gary, Mau. Carlyle.and Brandon will do just 
. ·~; . / Nebraska's traveling party ·..':., .,"-' /' and fans became thn lil'th con­.. 7/,,.sec~tive Bi.~ 12_sc~10'.>l to e~rr! t!rn ~--utmost respect of St,td1um Ushers 
and Notre Dame fans, following Baylor. Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas /\&M. It is an honor to be one of' the hosts when col­leges of' this caliber visit the great<!St col­lege program on tlw greatest campus in the county. Go Irish. 
Cappy Gagnon. '66, wonders ({ "Swimwear Illustrated" will be writing any.follow-up stories about college admissions. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of71ze Ohseruer. 
Generalizations are generally wrong 
While Geoff Hahie points out some humorous aspects of' rap music in his Sept. 12 column (Hap music thrives, despite absnnce of any logic). it is unfair to pin all "rap artists" as merely entertainers and not to give them rightful credit as artists. 
Hahic's critique on his narrow and limited examples of' rap arlists today helps to reflect how rap music and hip-hop in general is viewed by the general public today. Commerical radio and mainstream media have helped to portray hip-hop in a light that is unflattering if not totally negative towards hip­hop and its artists. It is unfortunate that the artistry and beauty ofthe hip-hop culture is not showcased on MTV or CNN, and it is because of this very reason that there is a misunderstanding of hip-hop by the general public. Hip-hop artists make up a spectrum ol' artistic styles that simply cannot be represented by a snlcct fow. 
Just as any punk fan would not recommend using 131ink-182 
DILBERT 

I HAVE AN E-MAIL MONKEY ON MY BACK, BUT I CAN QUIT WHENEVER I WANT. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
ij 


0.. I DON'T NE.ED TO BUT LOOK! THE @J CHECK IT EVERY STUPID MONKEY 
E"' 

.. MINUTE . I CAN HIT MY KEYBOARD
"' 
i "' 

WITH HIS FOOT! 
as a b()nchmark lo judg<\ the rest of' punk music on, or a coun­try fan with the Dixie Chicks and a rock fan with Matchbox 20, hip-hop fans would implore Mr. Hahie and others to look beyond what was being force fod at the nightclubs, the dorm parties and what was on MTV, in order to !ind out what hip­hop really is. 
Trust me, tlrnre arc other true hip-hop artists out there other than the Hoots and the Beastie Boys and I ask all of you open minded listeners out there to seek them out and you will see why I think Hythmically /\cceleratnd Poetry is so much mon! than just "girls, cars and drinks." 
Jesse Dang Dillon l !all senior Scptt'mhcr (2, 2000 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The government is the only known vessel that leaks from the top." 
James Reston journalist 
VIEWPOINT 
OTHF Thursday, September 14, 2000 BSERYER page 15 
POLITICAL FACE-OFF 
Discussing the future of Social Security 
Securing Social Security's 
future for working people 
This summer I lived with a wonder­Cul Hussian family in Moscow. \1y Hussian parents. onf' a former sciim­tist in tlrn spacP program and tlw other a physicist, are now retired. This W<'ll-Pducat-Pd coupli~ is Lisa scrapping by on Demidovich pnrsonal savings. odd jobs (likn 
Cullege

hosting /\mnrican studnn ls) and a Democrats small f)!!nsion from tlw gov(1rn­
nwnt. Watching them struggle, I 
rnalizPd how lucky /\nwricans arP to 
haw an efl'nrtive rntiremcmt savings 
plan. 
Voting for candidates who will pro­tPc·t ou 1· Social Srcurity system is cTu­cial to safeguarding our nation"s Pldcr!y l'roni poverty. 
Social Sc!curity has been said to be /\mnrica's most succnssf'ul public program. It protects 42 percrnt of tlw rPtirnd population from poverty. Concern about the future of Social SPcurity arises f'rom thP. prediction lhal tlw rntirml population is expect­Pd to double wlwn the baby boomers bPgin to rPtirn in 2015. Tlwni arc lwo main srhools of thought on how to addrnss t!w upcoming growth of n•ripiPnts -cithnr rnvamp thP rur­rc·nt program with safeguard mca­sun•s or n•visP the nntirn program with unc:Prtain consPquPnn~s. 
l)pmocratic candidate 1\l Gorn has a plan that would protect Social s1,curity lw1w!its for hard-vvorking Anwr·icans whili~ securing its future. Core wants to devote all of the rnorwy savnd rrom the interest pay­mPnts on thP national debt into a long-tPrm trust fund for Social Scicurity which would last until at least 2050. (;or<' has also proposed establishing a tax-frnl' HPtiremrmt Savings Plan for individuals in addi­tion lo tlw currnnt program, not inslPad of. Also. Gore wants to add 1ww guarantncs of fairness for wid­ows. widowPrs and mothers (·which will only cost IPss than five percrnt of the surplus). 
On tlw otlwr hand. the Hepublirnn 
candidatP George W. Bush has pro­
posPd an inefficient and regressive plan to n~form Social Security. He suggests privatizing the program by diverting Social Security taxes into private investment accounts. Thr problem with privatizing Social Security is that the government would be less able to maintain the system's inhernnt fairness. Instead of paying a Cl'rtain percentage and receiving a defined benefit, workers could make identical contributions lhrnughoul tlrnir working years, but because contributions would go to different investments or companies, workers would end up with very different balances when they retire. This would hurt low incnme workers who require the current progres­sive system. 
Furthermore, Bush has proposed taking money from Medicare, education and other beneficial government programs to cover the initial cost of privatization -cur­rently only one percent of money paid into the pro­gram is spent on bureaucrat­ic costs, under Bush's plan it rises to eight percent. This plan would surely hurt the country, but Bush has reo~ived millions of' dollars from donors who would profit from the privatization of Social Security. 

/\!though retirement is in our distant future, Social Securitv is important to our nation and io us. We must secure the stability of Social Security so that when our parents (and later we) are ready to retire we may have this reward after our many years of arduous labor. I truly believe that Al Gore's plan makes him the better candidate for ensuring the future of America's most successful piece of legislation. 
Lisa Demidovich is the vice presi­dent of the College Democrats. A col­umn from the Democrats and the Republicans will appear every Thursday until the election. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
Rejuvenating Social Security sets model for active government 
There is a simple fix to all the problems in our country. Simply throw money at them. Is your association unorganized? If so, take a few trillion dollars. Are you looking for a solution to a prob­lem? Don't attempt to 
Greg Kelly

be efficient and logical, instead take 2.3 trillion Andy Harms dollars of taxpayers money. That will keep 
College

the program afloat 
Republicans

for a while. This is exactly what Al Gore and the Democratic party would have you 
believe. The same party that wants to raise your taxes, since they know how to better spend the money 
than you, would like to fix the Social Security problem by giving it 
2.3 trillion dollars, which they say should keep it afloat until 2054. 
I am glad the Federal govern­ment is so efficient with funds and has an extra 2.3 trillion to "patch" the Social Security system with. 
Another approach to the prob­lem is to solve it, not patch it. Instead of giving the system more money, the structure ofthe system 
is reorganized. Almost seems too easy. Governor George W. Bush has a detailed plan in which there are no change in existing benefits for retirees or near-retirees, payroll taxes will not be increased and where 
~J' individuals get control over the invest­ing of their own Social Security funds. What a novel idea; you get to control your own money. Under the current system, Social Security benefits will exceed contributions bv 2015 and the entire system will be bankr~pt by 2037. Add to this the fact that the baby boomer generation will begin drawing from Social Security only eight years from now and one must ask what the Clinton-Gore administration has done in the last eight years. The answer is simple; they approved an Act passed by the Republican Congress (Retirement Protection Act of 1994). 
Governor Bush knows that the present government is inefficient with investing and spending money (as is obvious by A1 Gore's 
2.3 trillion-dollar plan). Currently, the real return on Social Security investment is less than two percent a year. The safest gov­ernment bonds alone yield four percent and in the long run a diversified portfolio yields at least six percent. With all these other options that the individual investor has, why let the government sit on Social Security with a two percent yield'? 
By privatizing Social Security the yield on the current funds would increase greatly. Social Security will not only be guaranteed for our generation, but our children as well, without increasing taxes or wasting budget surplus. 
A1 Gore will tell you that investing Social Security in this manner is risky and there­forr Wf) should not do it. Gore would like to scare the American public into thinking that only rich people invest wisely. Luckily, that it is not a reality. 
IfAl Gore is not willing to take a risk as minimal as this shift in investment strategy, how can we expect him to be able to make pivotal decisions as president? 
Perhaps defending our allies in the Middle East during the Persian Gulf War would have been too much of a risk. Or maybe it would be too risky to pass any leg­islation regarding the economy, after all, it's doing just fine now! 
When I retire, I would like to believe that I will be able to receive the Social Security benefits that I have already began to pay for. I would also like to believe that in doing so I am not stealing funds from my chil­dren. I want to believe that my country can wisely invest money or give the money to private organizations and individuals that can do so. I would like to believe that the decision we make today will be looked upon as a step towards educated spending deci­sions in the future. 
A vote for George W. Bush is a vote for an educated, active government rather than an overspending, overtaxing government that settles for mediocrity. By rejuvenating and streamlining the Social Security system, Governor Bush will not only solve the Social Security problem, but he will also set a model for governmental reform. A vote for George W. Bush is a vote for the future of Social Security and the future of America. 
Greg Kelly and Andy Harms are members ofthe College Republicans. Their column will appear every Thursday in the Political Face-off 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Disappointed by disparaging comments 
It is fnily dislwartPning to sit down and read a column writtnn by a Saint Mary's student that completdy bashes a Saint Mary's College sports team -especially on game dav. 
·hlday the SMC volleyball team played our home open­Pr against Kalamazoo Coll!~ge in the midst of an article that portrayl'rl 011r tr•am as possessing ch,mentary lrvel skills. As athletes at SMC we choose lo play solely for the Jove ol' tlw game -nothing mum and nothing less. We arpn't scholarship play<·rs, we don't g<~t any perks for b!'ing on fh<' t11am and the n1cognition we get on a broad spectrum for our commitment and dP.dication is minimal. But this doesn't matter to us beeause we find self-satis­l'ac·tion and motivation in a sport that we devote our­snlV<!s to wholP-hcartcdly. The column that appeared on Seµt. 12, was false. u.ssurning Urnl athletic skills and lal­ont an· absent from our tPam. Th('re arc members of our 
team that could compete at any collegiate level, hands down. 
It's an insult for these athletes to be told that they "lack basic skills and depth.'' Our entire team may not have the stellar ta.lent that a few individuals on the team do, bul they most certainly don't "lack basic skills" either. 
Our record is not reflPctive of the team we are and once again it's insulting for anyone to assume that just because our record is 0-7 at the very beginning of our season that !his will reflect tho two months of comp!'ti­tion we have left. 0-7 means nothing to us -we may be winless for all technical purposes but each game has been a step towards victory for our team. We have· heart anrl df'sirc that could rival any school at any level and we would rather have a losing record and play with heart than a winning record lacking the passion. 
J\s co-captains of a team that WC') love and are proud to be a part of, we are thoroughly disappointed in the man­ner and tar,tlessness through which our team was por­trayed. 
How does this support Saint Mary's Pride and athletics in general? Our challenge to students on both campuses is this, believe what is written about our team or come and watch the truth in action. You just might br sur­prised. 
Victoria Butcko Le Mans Hall 
Angie Meyers 

Holy Cross Hall co-caprnins Sainr Mary's volleyhall ream September 12, 2000 
...--------------------------------------------------------­
M 
ce 
e E 
-~ ------·· 
Thursday, September 14, 2000
page 16 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Exe~ subplots make 'Gun' misfire 
Br JUDE SEYMOUR S,·l·11e Movi~ ( :ricic 
"Tht• Wav of' tlw Cun" is tlw dirnctorial dPhlll of (:li'rislopl11•r Mc()uarri1\ tlw writ!'r of l 91):i's surprisl' womkr, "Tlw Usual St1sp1·1·ts." Knowing thr• intricatn way tlmt "SusJH'<"ls" was put LogPtlwr phu·pd lofty PXpPl"Lalio11s 1111 this 1110,·i,.. Unf'orlunatPly. Md)unrrii-triPs to providP too mnny sto­ri1·s, \\'hirli h•av1• llw 
Lial attl'mpt to capturn the girl (named Hobin) is u11succ11ssf'ul. It is however ltobin 's desin\ to escap11 tfo~ un-rnlentlnss watchful Pye of' lwr two hired security guards (Tay11 Diggs of "The Best Mau" and Nid:y Katt of' "Boiler Hoom") that turns into a strokl' or good luck for tlw kidnap­pers. Securing hnr, they makn clnmands for $15 million. 
1/'tlw moviP was just this simplP, it might lmw bt1m1 a little\ too formulaic for a l"!)gu­la r movieg,wr. It is 
llll(liPlll'P 11101"1' ('Oil· l\ld)uarric's mistakn, f'usNi than 1•11thrallPd. ''The Way of the howl'vnr, to delugl' thn 
Tlw story n'lll('rs plot with snv,•ral su Ii­11 rournl two kidnappPrs. Gun'' plots that rangn from ··r-.ir. l'arkPr" mvan !Im absurd to the unin­l'liillipp1• of "Ci:tl!'l 
teri•sling to the llxcil­l11tPntio11s") and "Mr. ing: a "bagrn an" I.011gb1111gh" (lfrnil'io (James Caan. infamous 
ow of fiue shamrocks 

l>PI Toro of the afori•­for his roll' as Sonnv lllPntiorwd "Tlw l1sual Corloonn in "The Susp<!l'ls" I. l'arkPr and Director: Christopher Mc0uarrie Godfather") is intro­l.11ngbaugh a1111011ncP dur,,id; a subplot with
Starring: Ryan Phillippe, Benicio

Parlv 011 that th,•v hav1! the prngnant girl's doc­111a1jpPd out tlwii· lifo·s Del Toro, Juliette Lewis, Taye Diggs, tor is added; and an 
d,!stiny: thPir lives havn Nicky Katt and James Caan attempt is made to 
110 purposP. B('ing cog­11i1.a11I ol' Lhat !'act, tlwir ro11rsl' ol' at"tion is lw driftnrs and tll make monPy only wlwn rwPded. 
It is during onn or ttw movin's finer poinls, an appointnwnl at a smrn•n dona· lion dinir, that the prdiminary plot for tlrn n•st of !lw movil' is outli111\d. 
Tlw Lwo vagrants ovl'rlwar a <:m1v1\rsa­tion in whkh a doctor discusses a girl (pluy1·d by .luli1•ttt· Lmvis) IH• k11ows who was paid fllll' million dollars to carry a baby for a rirli hut unfPrt.ih1 coupln. Tlw two stars d,widP tl1Pir 1ml' r:hancn at any­thing n•sPmbling a mPaningf'ul lifo Ji1)s in tlw stwcnssful kidnapping anrl nvnntual ransom or this girl. 
Bl'ing PSSPntially i1wx1wriPllrl'd, tlwir ini­

explain how all of tlwse people might possibly bl' connPdPd. 
Thn rJo"r ol' the story is dnpendent on fig­uring out tlw dues to the characters' intnr­wnnnctPdnPss, which are providnd to us in piecemeal f"orm. Unfortunately, the clues am ol'ten too vague, and the movie is ruirn•d by the eventual distraction that they prnsnnt. 
This is not to say tlrn movie is a complr.tr. wastP. Thon• an• some momenl<; reminis­cent of Mc()uarrin's previous ~reatness. 
/\ shootout IJPtwnPn lh<' kidrwppcrs and l{obin's security Warn is particularly m1thralli11g. It is ossnntially a bulllight, with cars rPplacing the rml blanket of' the mata­dors (in this case, tlrn kidnappers}. Using the slow moving rar as their dPfonse, it is exciting to watch the kidnappers take posi­tions and rnconsider actions as the car slowly movPs down a tight alleyway. 

Anotlwr positive aspect of' this movin is the acting of Byan Phillippn. Phillippe, known ['or his "l'I uff" roles in "Crupi Intentions" and "I Know What You Did Last Summer," really extends himsl'lf' lwrn. Not only did he invent and 1wrfert an acnmt. but his delivery or lines is urn:har­actcristically brilliant. Anymrn still 11ndPcicl­1)d ol' Phillippn's mnrit in Ilollywoocl should lw won over by this role. 
"Tlw Way of the Gun" has a lot going for it. Tlw plot is Pllliring, thn characters an• lik(1abl!1 and the movie mov11s smoothly !'or tlrn first :rn minutns. It would havn takPn a more confidnnt dirnctor, willing to ndit his project a littln 1111,rp thoroughly, to makn it Pnjoyabl!1. 

lnstPad, Mc()uarriP lets his debut lwcomn mirnd in an <HilanglPmnnl of tmnncnssary subploLs, and tlw Pxritnnwnt is t:onsnqtwntly drainPd from tlw movin. 
;\ lwttnr n1rommPmlation for anyrHw intnrnstnd in this typP or moviP is und;n,bt­Pdly Sam Pnckinpah·s I<J(,<J wnstnrn "Tlw \Viki Bunch," which providns guns as ,vl'll as a morn gratifying story. 
VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 
Winslet and Keitel add intensity to impassioned 'Smoke!' 
By MATT NANIA 
Assist.int Scel\l' Editor 
H's comforting to seo a talenh\d actor n•<·ov1•r from tlw prncarious heights of nwss-111 arkPt succc•ss. Al'tnr "Titanic," a11di1•11t·Ps Wl'fl' 1wrfectly pn!parnd to n111d1•11111 Kati' WinslPt lo the same pit of' has-bPC'll obscurity Lnonardo DiCaprio snems to belong in these days. Fortunatdy. Winslet didn't sink with the ship. 

"lloly Smoke!" is the entrancing story or two walots on a collision course with fate. Huth. played by Winslet, is a young Australian who finds what slw believes to bn thn path lo enlightenment through the influpnce of a Guru whiln on holiday in India. 
Panicked by this turn of events, Buth's motlwr (.luli1• llamilton) trawls to India to bring lrnr daughter home. "Mum" cooks up a plot to lure Huth home and hires top cult "cxitcr" P.J. Waters (llarVl'y Keilf\l) lo bring lwr daughter to niason. 
Wall!rs. an American from Los Ang1ilcs. has J)('rformed 18!J successful ,•xits, and by now he has tlw deprogramming shtick down lo a quick three-day mutinn. /\/'tcr tile family encircles Huth. she reluctantly agrPns to sprn1d tho required tim1! alone with WaWrs in a hut in thn !\ustralian outback. 
Things go according to plan. No rnaUPr what Huth claims with regard to hnr n<'w-rouncl r<'ligion, Keit1il's character knows morn. It's his intdlnl't V<'rsus lwr ntnotion. 
It's ,tlso his male supnriority and his plan, in tlw power snat wrsus her youth and lwallly and vulnerability: you can lw sun• tfw powor positions an• going to b<) n•vnrsl'd. Tlw balanrP of powPr turns wlwn l'.J. l'ulls tinder lluth's sPcluctim1. leading llll'm hoth 011 a descent inlo mad­rrnss that is disturbing, enchanting and bnconrns quitn intPns<1 and is so visually darkly comic. arrPsting as to be spnllbinding. 
The bulk or the film cent,irs on the nxit Thn pnrforrnanrns or Knitnl and WinslPt strategy and the back-and-forth tension, are tho high points of thn lilm. sincn the sexual and otherwise, between KeitPl and b11st scnnns am thn subtln mind-games Winslct. they play on nach othPr. 
Keitnl's charactnr here Winslnt is nxtraordi­is basically a sequnl to his "Holy Smoke!" nary in hnr roln, prc'­role as Winston Wolf, the snnting an inspirnd can-do "cleaner" in "Pulp nncorn to lwr l 1J()<J pPr­Fiction," who, in that Director: Jane Campion f'o rm an cP in "llidnous J'ilm, was callPd in on a Kinky." Glowing with
Starring: Kate Winsfet,monwnt's notice to lix a sun and rnligious forvor, particularly bloody situa-Harvey Keitel and Julie Hamilton 
slw rnally blossoms into 

tion. This tinrn the messy situation involves the cleansing of a soul, not a bloodstained automobile. 
The process of deprogramming a cultist londs itsnlf boautif'ully to an exploration of domination and subjugation, and the dis­parity in thn ages o(' Keitel and Winslnt adds ,t disturbing dinrnnsion to the snxual gamcplaying. Things get grim and bizarrn. Strangely, "lloly Smok<i!" still managns to find iLi; way to an Pnding that is all about rndemplion. 
The screenplay for "I loly Smoke!" was written by .lane Campion and her sister Anna, and covers sonrn of the thmncs that appnnr in suc:h othor Jane Campion films as "Tim Piano" and "A Portrait of a Lady'· -forbidden passion. ttin war hPtw1iP11 m<111 and wonwn and the sex and spirit u­alitv combo. 
'r'hl) film is occasionally funny, almost slapsli!'.k at tinws, aud nl otl1Prs quit!' harrowing in its dPpiction or cruPILy, weakness and betrayal. And it nvnntually 
a l'ormidabln actrPss lwre. Slrn handles nvnrything a wily fox liko Knit(1l ('.an throw at lwr, and nHH'<'. 
Keitel is intnnsP an'd commanding, tap­ping into the sa.mn hardr.orn mwrgins he displayncl in tlw 1992 shocknr, "Bad 1.inutonant." Long bnforn Im lits himsoll' inl.o a light 1·NI drnss, he cl<diwrs a hravp pcrforman1:e. 
For what it's worth. thny both dnsPrwd Oscar nomi11ations. 
"Something really happnnnd lwro," says Winslnt's charactnr ,war tho film's PIHi, and slw could be spnaking for tlw viPw1·r as wnlL lkspite Campion's wavnring to1w, lwr rcliancn on easy clich!is and cartoon characterizations, h,•r bMutil'ul shots that go nowlwrn and a tacknd-011 nnrling, tlw l'ilm works. By tlw t imn it's ovnr, thP vinwnr has nx1wriP11cPd sonwthing: somP­lhing complox and forc('ful. so11wthing 111any much bnttnr films nnwr approach. 
"lloly SmokP!" is availablP on vid!'o and is, wil.hollt a doubt, worth renting. 
---------------_________________________,,.___________
1111111!1 



Thursday, September 14, 2000 page 17 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Poorly-scripted 'Betty' lacks focus 
Thc hit mRn follow her bcr.ause shll
By MATT CACCA!vlO 
was a witness to their crime, even if 
Scene idm·ic (\irit­
shn doesn't know it. 

Tlw film becomes two stories that Without a doubt. "NursP Betty" is a don't belong in the same scriptclilTPrt'll! t_vpP of movilL It's n,;t very together. The first is of Betty's post­
~ood. but it is diffNPnt traumatic trip lo Los Angelrs and her Perhaps it's lwst lo start with the ensuing rnlalionship with tlrn soap stor v . l h<' f iI m (' (' n l lH s on Bet t v opera star. 
(ll P 11<' 1• i'. <'II wng,, r l. a 
SWI\PL. young \\aitn:ss who finds happinPss and PsrapP from hPr abusivP rnarriagc! in a typi<·ally ridiculous ~Ila p lljlt'l'H ­\Yitlrnut t'fWPaling too 
111ud1 of th1• r·onvolutPd p Io l l Ii at l'o 11 ows. /1•1!w1•~1•r's animal of a hu:--band is kill<'d by a 
l'atlln-so11 hil man tPam playPd painfully 
hy \'!organ FrP('nrnn and Chris Hock_ ln reality, she's meant to play a 
111 tlw mix-up that f'ollows. Betty dri­delusional young woman who has Vl'S from Kansas to Los Angeles to sadly lived her married life throughfind thr> soap ojwra character (Greg the tr.levision. Zcllwcger never gets a 
Ki111war) sh!' has fallen in love with. handle on Betty's character, and her 

Photo courtesy of USA Films In "Nurse Betty," Renee Zellweger plays a delusional waitress who fantasizes about a popular soap opera star, played by Greg Kinnear. 
This part of the film"Nurse . Betty" doesn't work in large part because of' Zc llwcger's perfor­mance. She. in a sense. plays the same charnc­out ol five shamrocks Le r that slrn's played rvrr since ~Jorry
Director: Neil LaBute 

McGuire." While she Starring: Renee Zellweger, looks grownup. shn acts like a young,
Morgan Freeman, Chris Rock 

naYvc girl waiting lo be anclGregKinnear swPpt away in a romantic flurry. 

Photo courtesy of USA Films 

Chris Rock (left) and Morgan Freeman play a father-son hitman team intent on tracking down Renee Zellweger's Betty character, who witnessed a murder. 
scenes suffer because of it. 
The other half of the film follows Rock and Freeman as they travel across the country in search of Betty. These two are never on screen with­out the other through the entire movie, so it is best to judge their per­formances as one. In that sense, their collect.ive performance fails miser­ably. Instead of watching a father-son hitman team, one gets the feAling of' watching Freeman coach Rock on how lo act. 
Hock is terribly out of place in a film that doesn't allow him to be funny. He's a comedian, after all. Freeman, on the other band, is too classy an actor to be stuck lecturing Rock for two hours. He becomes more of a baby-sitter than a hitman. 
Tlie only redeeming performance "Nurse Betty" offers is that of Kin1rnar. He somehow rises above a poor script and limited screen time to effectively portray a rich, egotistical soap actor who finds a strange joy in playing along with Betty's delusional behavior. Despite the character he plays, Kinnear gives the only believ­able performance in the film and fur­thers his successful transition to the big screen. 
"Nurse Betty" is a black comedy. 
The problem is that it's very difficult to figure out what the director, Neil LaBute, is trying to comment on. He most glaringly ridicules the degree to which the American public gets wrapped up in soap operas, the worst of television. 
This message could have worked, but LaBute goes over the top in trying to rhake it funny and, in the process, loses the truth behind it. llis film ends up being neither a comedy nor a sharp social commentary. 
This film is particularly disappoint­ing because it came to theaters this past week riding high off a spring pre­release that earned it the top screen­wri ting prize at the Cannes Film Festival. Usually success at Cannes translates into critical success and, often times, box-office success in American movie theaters. "Nurse Betty" will most likely !'ail that test. 
In the end, "Betty" falls short where last year's "American Beauty" suc­ceeded to great effect: making a scathing and sometimes humorous comment about the below-the-surface sickness of an American society all too interested in sex, violence and fantasy. Instead, "Nurse Betty" is a film that makes its actors look bad and leaves its audience unsatisfied. 
Box OFFICE 
"The Watcher" topped last weekend's dismal 

f Sept. 8-IO
box office with a low $9.1 million, pushing 

Movie Title Weekend Sales Total Sales
ahead of the other newcomer, "Nurse Betty," which earned 
1. The Watcher $ 9.1 million $ 9.1 million
just $7.2 million. The third major release, 2. Nurse Betty $ 7.2 million $ 7.2 million the gun-toting "The 
3. Bring It On $ 6.8 million $ 44.8 million
Way of the Gun" crashed in at a very 4. The Cell $ 3.6 million $ 51. 3 million disappointing ninth. 
5. Space Cowboys $ 3.3 million $ 78.8 million
Industry experts have declared last weekend 6. What Lies Beneath $ 2.8 million $ 142.4 million 
to be slowest week­end in North America 7. The Art of War $ 2.5 million $ 25.1 million since Super Bowl 8. The Original Kings of 
weekend at the end of 
January. Thankfully, Comedy $ 2.4 million $ 31.9 million the universally 
9. The Way of the Gun $ 2.2 million $ 2.2 million 
praised Cameron 
Crowe film "Almost 10. Highlander: Endgame $ 1. 9 million $ 9.1 million Famous" has a limited opening next week, 
Source: Yahoot ..,.
which should help bol­ster receipts. 
Photo courtesy of Universal Pictures 

------------..-------------------­
page 18 The Observer. SPORTS Thursday, September 14, 2qoo 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Ageless Ripken's 4 hits lead Orioles to 9-4 win 
strong innings to brat the A's to get to sen Pedro." Indians who loaded thfl bases on Dave runner past s1iconcl base and got Associated J>r~s, 
for tlrn third time this season. as maimger Charlie Manuel said in Martinez's bloop single. He thm1 one that far only twice. In th11 thP MinnPsota Twins won. his crowde-d officP.. "We're going retired Carlos Dr,lgado on a foul first, .Juan Encarnacion doubled 
AHLINGTON 

"I don't enjoy facing thPso to go after Pedro tomorrow." popup and Brad Fullmer on a with one out, but was strandPd 
C:1l Hipknn had four hits and 

guys at all." said Millon. 0-3 in Colon (13-8) allowed two soft liner to second. both on when Bobby Iligginso11 flied out 
rookin Chris Hirhard drove-in 
l'our prnvious starts. "(Jason) earned runs and six hits in fastballs. and Juan Gonzalrz was called 
five-runs as ttrn Baltimore 
Giambi pretly much owns me. seven innings. In his last start. out on strikes. 
Orioles b1iat llw TPxas Hangnrs 
Everybody in that lineup hits me Colon was leading 3· l and need­In the sixth. Brad Ausmus sin­
White Sox 1, Tigers 0

9-4 Wndnosday night. 
good, !Wl~n thr left-handnrs. It's ed one out to gnt through the glnd and advanced on a sacri­
Jim l'arqun combined wilh
llipk-Pn's first-inning single 

not a t11arn I like facing." seventh when he told Manuel he fice, but that rally stal!Pd wlwn
lwo relievers on a five-hit

guw him :H):i4 hits. moving him 
.JacquP .Jones home-red and was tired. Encarnacion groundnd out and
shutout. lnading the Chicago

past Hod Carnw into 18th place 
drove in thrPf' runs as the Twins Iligginson lined out.
White Sox to a victory ovr.r thn

on tlw can•Pr list. Hipknn latf'r 
stoppf'cl their thrne-gmrni losing 

Yankees 3, Blue Jays 2 Detroit Tigers.
movHd past Hobin Yount !'or 
strnak. 

Hog-er Clemens gave th!! New Frank Thomas and Harold
12th pla('J' in all-timP doublC's 
Gil llere<lia tl4-l ll. who 

York YankP-es conl'idt>nce. Bai.ncs hit back-to-back doubles Angels 8, Devil Rays 4
with 584. 
pitched a complete gamn in his

Birhard has ni1w honwrs and Mariano Hive-ra gave thnm wor­with two outs in the lirst inning Bookie Adam Kennedy hit a 
prnvious start, lasted just four 

ror th!1 only run the White Sox thren-run homer -his snconcl
26 HBls in 42 games sinl'.e he ries. 
innings Wednesday. I le allowed 

Clemens. on another of the neodod as they won for tho fifth consrcutive thrrrn-HBI ganw ­
was arquiwd in a trade with thf' 
four runs -throP f'arned -on 

dominating streaks that have timr, in seven games. and Darin lirstad drow in two
St. Louis Cardinals on .luty 29. 
night hiL'l. 

marknd his career. won his Parque (12-(il gavri up five hits runs as tlrn Anaheim Angnls ral­
llirhard hit a two-run doubln 
"If' I miss location, I'm going to 

ninth r:onsecutiv0 decision. over seven innings. only the sec­li1\d from !'our runs clown for a
in tlw lirsL. a two-run singln in 
get hurt and that's oxaetly what 

ond time in his last nine starts victory ovrr the' Tampa Bay
tlrn third and addPd a sacrifice pitching shutout ball into the 
happened," llcredia said. "It's 

eighth inning to Ir.ad tho New that he has gone at least sevrn. D1wil Hays.
llv in thn fourth. IIP also was hit 
frustrating_ A loss like this lakes

by a pitrh in tlw sixth. York Yankees. Ile struck out f'our and walknd Hamon Ortiz (h-Sl allowPd 
it toll on you_ We've had good 

IHvera. though. had a shaky 110111'. four runs -t.hn•p 1•arrwd -
Tlw Orioks won for tlw first 
starting pitching until today."

Linw in six ganws al Texas this eighth and a shaky ninth before The left-hander. who has bcwn and six hits in six-plus innings. holding on. inconsistent since tho All-Star Ile walknd three and struck out
Sl'ason. Indians 10, Red Sox 3 "It dr)('sn't bothN me at all." brnak, won for only thr~ third six.
Pat Happ (H· I l l allowed four runs and fivl' hits ovt'I' 5 2-:1 With Pedro waiting in the Hivera said. "I foel strong. I f'enl time in 11 st.arts. IIP was 8-2 One night aftpr hning held hit­innings. IIP had !osl fivr of' his wings. the Indians nC'eded h0althy. I am h0althy. That's t.he with a :nn EB!\ in the-first half, lrss through four innings by prnvious six decisions. Bartolo Colon to pitch likn a No. bottom line. There are going to and 4-4 with a 5.01 EHA since. Tampa Bay's Bryan HPkar. be games likri this. You just bat­Bob Howry pitched a hitless t\nalrnim managnd only onl' hit
BalUmnr!' scorNI thrnc timPs I starter. And instead of complaining tle. and like today. come out eighth and Keith Foulkn worked through the f'irst !'our against
in lhP lirst off rookiP Hvan Glvnn 15-4) on llichard's tw,;-run dou­about his shoulder being sorn, ahead." a prirfect ninth !'or his 30th save Cory Lidie -K,~n,rndy's lnadolT blP and Brook Fordycl''s BB! his kner aching or his def11nsc While he dominated in r:on­in 35 chanr:cs and eighth in a bunt singlr in tlw third. singh•. desPrting him. that's exactly verting 44 of 49 save chances row. But tlw Angds eruptrd for liw /\!'!Pr T,,xas gol a run in tlw what Colon did. last year, this season batters Jeff Weaver (9-14) took tho runs in the l'if'th to lak1• a 5-4 sPcond 1111 Bill llasPlman's HBI Colon pitched sevi-n strong have b1c!en able to foul oil' pitch­loss. DP-troit's seventh in eight lead. knorking out Lidlr 12-(1) double•. llichard's two-run single• innings and Manny Hamirnz es to stay alivP and bloop hits games. Weaver gavP up onP run with l'ivl' ronsnrutivn on!'-out in thl' third madP it 5-1. Husly homered and drove in four runs. over the infield. on four hits and two walks. hits. Crnnr hit a lwo-run doub!P in lnading the Indians to a critical "He's struggled a little bit as of striking out three in seven Th!' righl-handnr walknd Troy i Lhti HangPrs third. victory ov1)r thn Boston Hed Sox. latA," Toronto manager Jim innings. (;Jaus before giving up B1~ngiP Tlw Orio!Ps rhasPd {;!ynn in The victory moved Cllweland 1 Fregosi said, "but hn's a pretty Parquo and Weaver were !'ac­Molina's doubln and Kennndv's tlw l'ourth on !Hpknn's HBI sin­1/2 games ahead of' Oakland good pitcher. and he made the ing each other for the first time ninth home run. Benji (;ii ;(nd glP. Hichard's sarrifice 11y off and threo up on Boston in the pit('.hes he had to makr." since the fight-marred gamr Hrstad follownd with r.onsPrn· 
rPliPvl'r .Ionathan .Johnson made /\I. wild-card race. And the tim­Hivern's_problem Wednesday April 22 at Comiskey Park when tivn doubles. tying tlw scorP, it 7-:i. ing couldn't have been bPtter for was that his shouldP-r was /lying 11 players and coach<'~ W<'rn and Orlando Palnrniro's singlPf Texas nit llw dPlkit to 7-4 in the Indians -Pedro Martinez opAn in his motion. ejectPd. up tlw middlr dPlivnn•d Erstad 
tlw sixth on Hil'k1 LPdeP's run­will start for thl' Hed Sox on "!-IA was a littlP frustratr,d The White Sox rnduced th1iir with the go-ahead run. 
scoring tripln Thursday night. aftn the game." Yankties man­magic number to clinch tlw AL ThP Angels inrreasPd till' l\forti1rnz is 8-0 in his carnm ager Joe Torre said. Central to 12. margin to 8-4 during a thl'PP­against Clnveland and will be Clemens (13-6) lef't after Jose Chicago lel't f'ieldcr Chris run sixth that included HBI sin­
Twins 7, Athletics 6 
pitching in Jacobs Field for the Cruz Jr. doubled leading off the Singleton robbed Damion Easlny gles by Erstad and Gil. who had
Eric Milton d1JPsn't like pitr:h­

first timn since April :rn when lrn eighth. Mirkey \1orandini sin­of a home run with one out in thrre hits. KPnnedy, who was
ing against thn Oakland 
hit Hoberto Alomar and was gled Cruz home and Shannon the third. with a perfoctly timed walkPd intentionally, took third
Athletics. IIn'II take the rnsults, 
suspendPd for live ganrns. Stewart singled. leaping r:atch at the eight-foot on Gil's hit to right and contin­
though. 
"Tomorrow's the rubbPr Je-ff Nelson struck out Alex fence in loft-center. ued home when Stnv1~ Cox mis­
Milton I 13-<Jl pitclrnd 5 1/3 

match and all of you arn going Gonzalez and in camn Hivora, Tho Tigers did not advance a playnd the ball for an nrror. 
The Observer accepts classifieds everr business day from 8 ,I.Ill. ro 3 \1.111. at the Notre [).11m· otllce, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.111. Al dassifieds musr he prq,.,id. 
The charge is 3 cents per cl1.1ractcr per d.,y, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issl!ing refunds . 
CLASSIFIEDS 
•  
Football Tickets For Sale:  TWO (2) ROOMS IN MARRIOTT  EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP- Why won't the scanner work.  
(Reserved Seating)  COURTYARD MOTEL IN SOUTH  MENT CENTER PAID & VOLUN­ 
TICKETS  2 for Purdue; 2 tor Standford  BEND AVAILABLE FOR PURDUE  TEER OPPORTUNITIES  FOR SALE  Why won't our printer print.  
Call (513)-604-4877  WEEKEND.CALL K. McCANN AT  Earn money and build resume  
WANTED  1-415-646-7535  experience whle interacting with  92 Dodge Spirit  WHY DOESN'T OUR STUFF  
ND FOOTBALL TKTS  2 PU GA TIX FOR SALE  delightful young children. The Early  4 cyl -auto -cruise  WORK?!  
289-9280  CALL SEAN 634-1454  Childhood Development Centers at  low mileage -top condilion  
WANTED  Saint Mary's College and the  246-9784  IT IS 1 :45 and none of our stuff  
SELUNG ND FOOTBALL TKTS  FOR RENT  SPRINGBREAK 2001  Universily of Notre Dame are cur• rently accepting applications from  High quality kegerator. Bought In  works. We have no pictures, we have lots of stories, bu! no pictures.  
251-1570  Hiring On-Campus Reps  college students for part time  '98 tor 1k. Asking $600 (can be split  
B&B lodging in alumni home for NO  SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH, GO  employment positions.  amongst roommales & laler resold  Nothing works around here. It's the  
VICTORY TKTS  games. (219) 243-2628 or  FREE!!I Student Travel Services  At ECDC-ND. the two openings are  lo underclassmen)  basemen! curse.  
BUY'SELL0 TRADE  garyb@mvillage.com  AmericaOs #1 Student Tour  tor TTh 7:30-8:30 a.m.  312-952-2540 leave v-mail  
ND FOOTBALL  Operator Jamaica, Mexico,  and TTh 11 :15 a.m. -1 :30 p.m.  Shady. Shady. Shady.  
232-0964 www.victorytickets.com  ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE ANO CLOSE TO CAMPUS  Bahamas. Europe, Florida 1-800-648,4849  At ECDC•SMC, the opening is for F 12:30-1·30 pm. If you are inter- LOST & FOUND  Thanks, Ernesto  You rock.  
htlp:1/mmmrentals.homepage.com/  www.gospringbreak.com  ested in applying, please contact  
BUY/SELL ND  email:mmmrenlals@aol.com  Karl Alford, Program Diretor al  LOST IN EITHER LAFORTUNE OR  Janel, thanks lor keeping me clam  
TICKETS  232-2595  WINTER BREAK/SPRING BREAK  ECDC-SMC,  NOH: wallet with credit cards and  today. And making me eat. Even on  
273-3911  Ski & Beach trips on sale now!  at 284-4694. or Thayer Kramer,  identification. If found, call Lori  !he job.  
That Pretty Place. Berl and  www sunchase.com or call 1·800·  Program Director at SC DC-ND. at  X3874 -REWARD IF FOUND  
ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED  Breakfasr Inn has space available  SUNCHASE TODAYI  631-3344, lor more information and  How many days until the weekend?  
A.M., 232-237B  for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms  an application.The Early Childhood  Oh, I forgot. Weekends mean noth- 
P M. • 288-2726  wilh private baths. $80·$115, Middlebury, 30 miles trom campus.  SOCCER & VOLLEYBALL REFER­EES needed for south side elemen- Development Centers are also look­ing for volunteers who enjoy young  PERSONAL  ing  
ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE  Toll Road. Exit #107. 1-800-418­ tary school, located near Scottsdale  children. If you would be ilnerested  WANT TO BRING YOUR HORSE  Scott, thanks for your constanl  
A M -232·2378  9487.  Mall on Miami Street. $20.00 per  in spending 2 hours a week reading  TO SCHOOL? SAGEBRUSH STA- invites. One of rhese days I'll make  
P M -288-2726  soccer game; $16.00 per VB match  children's books, building with  BLES IS THE PLACE. JUST 25  it.  
I have 5 bedrooms for rent in my  to qualified refs.  Call 291-4200  blocks. and singing songs with chil- MINUTES FROM NOTRE DAME.  
BUY/SELL N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  nicely-decorated private home lor  dren, please contact ECDC-ND at  INDOOR RIDING ARENA  Our stuff still doesn't work.  
HOME & AWAY.  Football weekends; less than 2  Looking lor 1 0 enterprising students  631-3344 or ECDC-SMC at 2B4­ LIGHTED OUTDOOR ARENA  
(219) 289·8048  miles north of stadium. continental  for part time computer work.  Earn  4693  SECURED TACK ROOM  Thank you scanner.  
NO STUDENT CONVERSION TIX  brkfst included  Many happy repeat  up to $4,000/mo. 1-888-304-0414  FLEXIBLE RIDING HOURS  
NEEDED  customers! Call Kim  Lv. Msg.  NOTICES  CLEAN SAFE ENVIRONMENT FAMILY OWNED  We will soon be burying all of our office equ1pmen1.  
MSU vs. ND football tickets wanted  277-8340.  2 people needed to provide  
""  (219) 289-8048  dependable child care lor church  SKYDIVE'!  SAGEBRUSH STABLES  Or perhaps donating it to the Bobby  
Female seeking female roommate.  Bible study. Thursday ams 9-10:30.  Training Students for 35 Years  BOARDING LESSONS HORSE- Knight preservation fund.  
Need GAOs: 4 Stanford, 2AF. 2BC  2B5 mo. Incl utilities & cable. o pets,  Own transportation preferred but  1 Hour North of South Bend  BACK RIDING  
Chris 634·4 751  parties, or drugs.  will discuss $15/person. Julie  GREAT LAKES SKYDIVERS. INC  55251 SAGE Rd.  Grosse Point. a 90210 parody, 7  
Besley.1 @nd.edu  289-7129  44746,  1-800-351-6617  219-232-3361  pm fnday night on the WB.  

Thursday, September 14, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
-

Canseco settles into role as Yankees' DH 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 

In a corner of the New York YankPes' clubhouse, Jose Canseco got up from his chair, and made a proclamation. 
"I'm going for the record," l1c said. "Most OL trips with 500 homr. runs." 
Canseco. who has 44& homers and 11 stinL.., on the disabled list, is hitting .289 with. six homers and 18 HBls in 76 at-baL'i since Aug. 7, when the Yankees claimed him on waivers from Tampa Bay. 
Ile was 3-for-3 with three RBIs and three runs scored in Tuesday night's 10-2 win over Toronto, and was back in the lineup at designated hitter Wednesday night. 
"I didn't expect to play today. I don't take it for granted," Canseco said before Wednesday's game. "Yoti have players here who are everyday players and do a great job at it." 
Humble one moment, he can be among baseball's most boast­ful the next. 
''I've been from the best player in the world to a bum, washed up," he said. ''I've been through so much in the game, more probably than anybody else." 

Yankees manager Joe Torre was surprised when his general manager, Brian Cashman, claimed Canseco, a move made to prevent him going to a team the Yankees could later battle for the AL p<mnant. 
It's turned into a pleasant sur­prise, adding pop to an offense that's slumped in several stretches. Canseco says he doesn't know if he'II be picked for the 25-man postseason ros-
Do you want to go to 
Disney World? 
Enter the Notre Dame 
vs Navy SUB contest so you can win the 
Student Travel Package 
that includes: 


ter, but Torre made it sound as if the 36-year-old player is a shoo-in because he's a power threat. 
"Even when he doesn't swing the bat," Torre said. 
As a DH, Canseco partly fills the void caused by Darryl Strawberry's season-long sus­pension. Strawberry hit three homers against Baltimore in the 1996 playoffs, and two in the postseason last year, one against Texas, another against Boston. 
Torre also remembered how Strawberry pinch hit and walked against Greg Maddux in the Jr. and Mark

"I've been from the
eighth inning of McGwire, 
last year's best player in the might be the World Series world to a bum, person aiming 
opener, giving for Hank
washed up."

New York two Aaron's on and no outs career home as it overcame Jose Canseco run record of 
a 1-0 deficit to 755. His bio is 
Yankees' DH 

A Two-person gift certificate for ND vs Navy ganre tickets, hotel accomadations, and two-day Disney World 
Theme Park Passes! 

Look for us on September 13th & 14th at the Dining Halls and in Lafortune 
It's S2-00 to buy a ticket 
NFL 

Former Jet Gastineau sentenced to prison 
beat the Braves 4-1. 
"As opposed to Darryl, where Darryl is definitely one-sided as to facing right-handers (only), Canseco has played every day," Torre said. 
That makes it likelv both Canseco and Glenallen 11ill will be on the postseason roster, with one Otting and the other pinch hitting. David Justice will be the third outfielder, joining Bernie Williams and Paul O'Neill. 

Canseco hasn't ·been to the playoffs since 1990, when he helped Oakland go to the World Series for the third straight year. He was "shocked" to find out that the Yankees had claimed him. giving him another shot at postseason play. 
"I want to be in the lineup every day," he said. "I want to help the team, day in, day out. I'm a proven power hitter. If I'm not in the game, I don't feel I'm contributing." 
If not for injuries, Canseco, not 
Ken Griffey 

like  a trip  
through  a  
medical dictionary.  

Canseco fractured his left hand in 198 9, had a protruding disc in his back in 1990. a sore shoulder in 1992. a torn right elbow liga­ment in 1993, a groin strain and rib injury in 1995, a strained right hip flexor and a ruptured disc in 1996, back spasms in 1997, a herniated disc in 1999 and a strained left heel this year. 


Associated Press 
NEW YOHK 
Former Jets star Mark Gastineau was sentenced Wednesday to 18 months in jail for failing to complete an anger-management course after hitting his estranged wife. 
Gastineau admitted in May that he had violated terms of his probation following a guilty plea to misdemeanor court order of protection to stay away from his estranged wife., Patricia Schorr. 

She obtained the order after the 6-foot-5 Gastineau, who was 270 pounds during his football career, hit her and threatened her with a glass cocktail table. 
In April this year, Bartley 

ordered Gastineau to spend a  
year at the Hope Christian  
Center, a Bronx treatment  
facility. If he failed to finish  
the program. the judge said.  
Gastineau was "surely" going to jail.  ..  
On Aug. 22, the 43-year-old  
Gastineau walked away from  
the program after threatening  
another resident,. Assistant  
District Attorney Angela  
Albertus said. In court  
Wednesday, she reminded the judge of his warning to the  ..  
former football star.  
Gastineau, who played for  
the Jets for 10 years and  
retired in 1988. had previous­ 
ly been found guilty of assault  
in 1984 and was sentenced to  
three years' probation in 1993  
on drug charges.  

assault in October 1998. So, he was ordered to spend a year in a treatment center but left after about four months, prosecutors said. 
Gastineau's lawyer, Sharyn Stein, asked the judge to give the former defensive lineman another chance to straighten out his life. "He's a changed man," she said. 
But Manhattan criminal court Judge A. KirkR Bartley told Gastineau, "I have given you beyond a second and third chance." .. 
The problems grew out of Gastineau's flouting of a 1998 
We have TONS of posters, 


regular and subway size, to decorate your rooml ~............................................ . 
~ $2.00 OFF j ~ Posters: 
fflUJSjQ (Sale items excluded. Expires 10-10-2000.) : 
orbitrecords.com .............................................
~ 
Thursday, September 14, 2000
page 20 The Obseroer . SPORTS 
-NFL 
Williams will play despite foot injury 
Associ.ited r,ess 
NliW OHLEI\NS 
N('w Orlnans Saints running back !\icky Williams thought lw had bruis1•d his foot in tlH\ first game of t!1P seaso11. It was painl'ul. but he kept play­ing. 
Turns out. Williams aclually <'hipp!'d a born• in thP fool. It's still painful, but Im still plans to keep playing. 
"It's not that bad; it's noth­ing I'm Wllrried aboul." Williams said \\JpdnP.sday. "I havpn'l missf'd a practice. I haven't miss1\d any work. I'm not going to miss a ganw." 
Tlw 1998 I I Hisman Trophy win ncr WilS listPd as prob· 
"I haven 't missed
abl11 on against Wednesday's any work. I'm DPtroit injury rPporl his role has
not going to miss 
to the lrague. b c c n The Saints a game. expanded cfassil'iPd tl11• and he season game. The high anklr. sprain hf' suffernd in that gam,1 bothered him for weeks. lfp also was slowed by a hypcrextcnded clboi,v and turf toe. 
llis latest injury did not spark anxiety. howevnr. 
"I prartir.ed all wf'ek," Williams said. "It didn't stop me from doing anything so I wasn't worried about it." 
Going into Sunday's game, Williams is No. 7 in the Nf.L in rushing. P-ighth in the NFC in total yards from scrimmage. 
Although Williams has not rushed for 100 yards this sea­son -!1f' had 50 yards on i4 carrins against San Diego last week and 84 vards on 20 car­
, · riPs th1• first w c e k 

Patriots rotate linemen 
Associated Press 
f-OXBOHO. Mass. 
NP.w England's Drew Bledsoe will never be mistak<'n l'or Strve Young, a quarlerba1:k who weavnd through del'Pndcrs as a runnrr and picked Lhrm apart with passos. 
But ii' the lumbering Bledsoo keEips getting slammed to th1' ground. he rould end up like Young, who retired after last season following his fourth con­cussion in thrne y1,ars. 
''I've always subscribed to the philosophy that. as a pocket passer. rvr got my spot in the por.ket and my linemen need to know where I am and I still believe that that's tnw." Bledsoe said Wednesday. "It makes it easier !'or them to do their job." 
Bledsoe. who has been sacked six times in each ol' tlrn Patriots' two gamP.s. has tried to move around in thf' pocket more, but his safety is far from guaran­ter.d. 
The Patriots' offf',nSiVf'. line block1'.d poorly in an opr.ning 21-Hi loss to Tampa Bay. New England's line improved in Monday night's 20-19 loss to the New York JP.ts. as coarh !{ill Bclichick continurd to rntatr players while seeking tlw blJst combination. 
Hight tar,klc Grant Williams didn't think th11 chang11s dra­matically affected the line's cohesiveness. But thn lino allowed two sacks wh1•n the Patriol, were trying to overtake New York on their last drivn. 
Williams and left tarkh! Bruen Armstrong, a 14-ycar vntnran, missed most of training <'amp with physical problPms. In his sf'!arr.h for r.onsistr.ncy against 
the Jets. Bclkhick startPd Sale 
lsaia, a guard who ht> had picked up less than two wrniks earlier. 
"l\ny player that doesn't par­ticipate in training camp. rngardless of what age they're at. it's diflirult for tlH~m at. the 

start ol' the soason." Bdichir.k said. "You just don't walk in. so I think it's a little bit ol' a procpss." 
Trying to incrPaSP mobility has been a proniss for Blr.dsrJP. who realizes h<\'II nrwnr be a running thrt1at lih Minnr.sota quartr.rbark Dauntn Culpnppnr, who facns tlrn Patriots 1111 Sunday. 
BIPdsoP has b!\('11 working on improving his footwork with quarterbal'ks coach Dick Hr.hb1•in. 
"Docs it mPan I'm going to bnconrn a scrambling qtrnrli'r­bar.k?'' Blndson said. "No. I think PVl~rybody n~cogniws that I havr• sonw limitations in that area. But tlwrr. ,m' times wlwn I can buy a liUIP bit morn tinw and try and makP sonwthing out o( a play that's brokPn down." 
!llr.dsoc ruslwd f'or just 377 yards on 218 1·arrins in his lirst S!WPn sf'asons. This season. lw's gainrd 40 yards on 11 carriPs trying to nscapc cJ1,fPndnrs. 
injury as rrn1c1ins a
Ricky Williams 
minor and so key to the
Saints running back
did Williams. Saints 
"It was offense. swollPn al first Williams had four receptions and sore. but nothing bad," for 29 yards against the Lions, Williams said. "It doesn't 27 yards receiving. including affoct my running." a 13-yard touchdown r,atr,h, 
Williams didn't want to say against the Chargers. which foot was injurnd. saying Even when Williams does he did not want Seattle play­not break free for a big gain. 
Prs trying to step on it during thr r.onstant p()Unding wears Sunday's gamf' against the down an opponent and also S1mhawks. allows the Saints to control 
"I'm sun~ tliev would trv to if the ball for a longer time. Limy could." Williams said. r,oach Jim Haslett said. 
Williams' rookie snason got "We knew we couldn't run off to a poor start when he the ball on ltlrn Chargers]." was injured in th!\ first pm-Haslett said. 

:g o· f 
,::, a, N 
LOW 
f "Tl 
-~ .c 
C: 
~ :::, lil 
<!)
student :, 
E 
<'Cl Ill 
C:
~ 

~ a, g.
! 
< i 
..Q 
" 
iil <O
cS 
Airfares i $ :::, 
~ 
E 
0 Ill 
Ill 
:::, 
~ 
0
CJ) ,.. 
C: Eurailpasses ~. 
a, 0, 
! ~ 
C: 
More Than 100 Departure Cities 
-~ 
:z 
Study Abroad 
te:•. 
student UnlV8fS8 ~ 
n·s YOUR WORLD. EXPLORE IT 

.. 
studentuniverse.com 
800.272.9676 

For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest.• TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the (REF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities.• Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements. • TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities. • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. 
• Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03 

RETIREMENT INSURANCE MUTUAL FUNDS TRUST SERVICES TUITION FINANCING 
Why is TIAA-CREF the #1 choice nationwide? The TIAA-CREF Advantage. 


Year in and year out, employees at education and research institutions have turned to TIAA-CREF And for good reasons: 
• 
Easy diversification among arange of expertly managed funds 

• 
A solid history of performance and exceptional personal service 

• 
A strong commitment to low expenses 

• 
Plus, afull range of flexible retirement income options 


For decades, TIAA-CREF has helped professors and staff at over 9,000 campuses across the country invest for­and enjoy-successful retirements. 
Choosing your retirement plan provider is simple. Go with the leader: TIAA-CREF. 
THE TIAA-CREF if'ADVANTAGE.,,,,,.K.  
Investment Expertise Low Expenses  
Customized Payment Options Expert Guidance  

------~-------------~ ---· -----------------------­
page 21Thursday, September 14, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Firmwide Information Session for Juniors and Seniors 
Thursday, September 14, 2000 Center for Continuing Education, The Auditorium 6:00 pm -8:00 pm 
Career Forum 
September 21 -22, 2000 Mendoza College of Business 9:30 am -3:30 pm 
Equities Divisional Information Session 
Wednesday, October 4, 2000 Alumni Senior Club 6:30 pm -8:30 pm 
Investment Management Divisional Information Session 
Wednesday, October 11, 2000 Center for Continuing Education, Room 210 

.. I
I 
'

6:00 pm -8:00 pm 
I 
, I 

MINOS. WICE OPEN~1111 www.gs.com 
Goldman Sachs, an equal opportunity ernployer, does not discriminate in employmerit on any basis that is prohibited by federal, slate or local laws.© 2000 Goldman, Sachs & Go. 
ZJ62ft-ljfj,Z5,09-DO 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 14, 2000 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Maddux blanks Marlins for second straight shutout 
/\ssociar~J Press 
ATIANTA 

Crng Maddux pitched a four­hitter for his second r,onsccufivc shulout as the Atlanta Braves blankrrl thP Florida Marlins 4-0 Wl'dn1\sday night. 
Thr Brav1is. who snapped a thrPr-ganw losing skid, main­tairwd a two-game lead over Nf•w York in tlw NL East. Tlw Mt1ts beat Milwaukee 4-1 in 10 innings. 
Maddux (17-81 pitched his third shutout of the season in running his scoreless streak lo 22 2-:J innings for his third straight win. It was his fifth complrtr game and ')9th of his career. 
Thi' four-tinw NL Cy Young winner fac1~d only 29 batters. giving up singles to llrnry Hodrigu<iz in thn fifth. Luis Castillo in tht\ sixlh and pinch­hittnr Mark Kotsay in the ninth, and a doublc1 by Mike LowPII in the nighth. llf' also hit Mike Hl'clnwnd with n pitch in Urn third.·Hodrigu11z and Kotsay w<'rP Prasl'd on doublr. plays and Castillo was caught stealing. 
Maddux threw 89 pitches, (iO J'or strihs. got 12 groundball outs. slrnrk out four and walked 
11011('. 
Tlw Brav1•s sron'd a run in tlH' Sl't'ond wlwn Chippl'r Jo1ws brokP an 0-l"or-l :1 slump with a singln, look serimd on a walk to AndrPs <;alarraga, third on a fly to right by Brian Jordan, and srornd on Kc•ith I.orkhart's sac­rilirn lly off Hyan IlPmpsl('I" ( I 2­101. 
Phillies 15, Expos 5 
Srnll HolPn hit t'wo triples and a doubl<•. driving in lhnm runs as l'hiladPlphia lwat lhn Montrc·al. 
Pat BurrPII homPrPd and also drovP in lhrP<' runs for the PhiliiPs, who finishPd with 19 hits in 1.lwir higlwst-scoring gallW of tlw Sf'ilSOll. 
Vladimir Cul'ITNO hit his :Uth honw r u II for Mon trPal and pitch,•r FPlipP l.irn also rnnnnd­Pd. 
Hol1•n, who bf'gan tlw gamP with only thrPP triples this sea­son. triplPd Lo spark a live-run lif'th inning. Thr-l'hillies added !"our mon' runs in tlw sixth. 
Bruce Chen (7-21 gol lhe win dcspit(1 pitching just five innings and allowing the Expos to take a 5-2 lead. Guerrero's twu-run homer in th£' first endC'd Chen's streak or 20 2-3 scoreless innings. 
Chen gave up seven hits and walked two. lie ended his of lour no-de<'i.sions and gave him his lirst victory since Aug. 6. 
l.ira (4-61 made an emergency start after Trey Moore felt stiff­ness in his shoulder. 
Lira. who had pilr.hed a.n inning out of the bullpen during Monday's doubleheader, worked four-plus innings. lie gave up six runs and 10 hit:-;. 
In the fifth. Lira hit his sp,r,ond homer of the season to give the Expos a 5-2 lead. 
Lira lef't in the fifth after the first four hiUers reached base, capped by Holen's triple and an HBI single by BurrnlI that tied it al 5. 
Cardinals 9, Pirates 5 
Mark McGwire. hobbled by a sore knee, groundrd a singlo into the left-field corner that started a two-run first inning and sent SL Louis over l'illo;bu rgh. 
ThP Cardinals completed a thrnc-garne swcep and cut their magic number for clinching thc NL Central to six ovrr 
Cincinnati. 
Pittsburgh lost its l'if"th in a row. 
Hirk i\nkiol (9-71 matched his career high !'or strikeouts with 11 in 6 2-3 innings. IIn has two wins in his last 10 starts. both owr Pittsburgh. 
McGwirn. listed in the starting linPup as the Cardinals' short­stop and No. 2 hitt,~r. singfod off Todd Hitchif' (8-8). 
Tlw ball rolled into tlw wnrnr and would have been a doub{P for most players. \1rCwire is slowecl by patella tf'ndinilis in his right knee, a r,ondition that sidelined him for more than two months. 
BncausP MrGwirr. is unable to play in the lit>ld. manager Tony 
I.a Bussa has manipulatrd his linl'up to get him to the platn in tlw first inning of six r.ons0cu­tive road games. Thn slugging lirsl bas1'man is 2-l'or-G with a home run since llw plan went 

Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 

Aetors fror11 tJJe _Lo11do11 Stagf As You Like It 
by William Shakespeare 
Thursday, September 1 4 ............. 7:30 pm Friday, September 15 ................... 7:30 pm Saturday, September 1 6 ............. 7:30 pm 
Playing at Washington Hall Reserved Seats $16 • Seniors $14 • All Students $12 Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 

into effect last Friday. 
Jim Edmonds followed with a single, and he and pinch-runner Placido Polanco scored on Will Clark's double. 
The Pirates tied it in the first on Keith Osik's two-run douhlr.. Both runs were unearned because of second baseman Craig Paquette's two-out error. 
Infield grounders by Ankicl and J.D. Drew scored runs in the fourth for a 4-2 lead. Ray Lankford had an RBI single in the fifth and Mike Matheny hit a sar,rilke fly to make it 6-2. 
Edmonds singled in a run in the sixth and Shawon Dunston hit a lwo-run homer. his 12th, in the seventh. Dunston came into the game to replace Lankford, who slightly strained his right hamstring running to first base on a single. 
Adrian Brown hit HBI singles in the fifth and seventh for Pittsburgh. Thn Pira.tns had the bases loaded with nobody out in lhe eighth but got jusL one run when .John Wehnf:r grounded into a double play. 
Reds 13, Cubs 3 
Benito Santiago had !'our hiL'i and Bob Bell made a strong case for rnturning to tht~ starting rotation as Cincinnati beat Chicago. 
Santiago drove in four runs, including a iwo-run honrnr, and Alex Orhoa also had four hits for the Heds. 
Bell (7-7!. demoted after fail­ing to complete the second inning last Wednesday, started in place or Scott Williamson, who has two broken toes in his right fool. 
Bell allowed six hits, vrnlked thrne and struck oul six in his 
¦ ¦ 
New Meetings for Students and Young Adults. 

312 Lafortune Student Center 
Mondays7PM 
first career complete game, 
In his last outing. against thn 
New York Mets, Bell walked 
four and gave up five runs in 1 
1-3 innings. 
Chris Stynes had a two-run 
homer and Scan Casey drove in 
two with asingle and a sacrifice 
fly. 
The Heds battrid around in the 
third, scoring four runs, to 
chase .Jamie Arnold (0-3). who 
allowed five runs on seven hits 
and a walk in 2 2-3 innings. 
Chicago took a 1-0 lead in thr. first when Eric Young walked, stole second, advanced to third on Rir,ky Gutierrez' sacrifice bunl and scornd on Sammy Sosa's double to left field. 
Shane Andrews led off the second with his 11th homnr, his first since May 11 after bning on the disabled list more than tlm~n months with a herniatPd disk that required surgery. 
Mets 4, Brewers 1 
After putting New York in an early hole with a misplay in the field. Jay Payton atoned beforn it got too late. 
Payton scored the tying run in the ninth inning and hit a game­winning three-run homer in tlrn I 0th as the struggling MPts ral­lied to beat Milwaukee. 
"I didn't want that one ball to be tlrn determining factor." Pavton said of Hichie Sexson's f'irst-inning f'lyball that fr.II between him and LPnny Ilarris for an error that IPd to thP onlv run until the ninth. . 
After waiting eight innings, Pavton made sure it wasn't, leading the Mets to their second straight win after starting the month 2-8. New York entered the day two games behind lirst­


place Atlanta in th1! NL East and 
41 U2 ahead of Arizona for thn 
wild card. 
With one out in thn 10th, Mike Bordirk singlr,d off' Juan Acevedo (3-7) . .1011 Mcllwing then hit a popup to shallow r.cm­. ter and slammed his bat to the ground. But thern was confusion bntween shnrtstop Mark I.orntta and centc1r l'iPldc1r Marquis Grissom. and thr. ball fell in l'or 
a single. 
"I called for thn ball about the 
sam11 time he did." Grissom 
said. "Ile just couldn't get out of 
the way and I pullnd up because 
I didn't want to run into him." 
Onn out latflr, Payton hit a 
lirst-pitch slider ovPr thn fenr.c 
in left-center for his 14th 
homer. 
Payton pumped his fist and 
yelled out, "Yeah. baby!" aftpr 
the ball clearnd tlH1 wall. llis 
teammates rushc\d out of the 
dugout and mobbed him, hitting 
out two weeks of frustration. 
"I thought I got out in front or 
it and he was going to catch it." 
Payton said. "But then it started _carrying. It donsn't mattnr how wn win the gam1\S. Wn nePd any win wn can get righl now." 
/\ftc1r managing only l'our hils in eight scorcdess innings against Jf'IT lf/\mirn, Payton !Pd 
ofT t lw n in th w ith a do u b I n against Curtis I.Pskanir and movPd to third on a groundout. 
"Thn guy who rnally rhangPd the wholn gamP was l'aylon." BrPwnrs managnr Davny l.01ws said. "lie hil'i tlw ball tlw otlwr way in ltw ninth inning. Thal wa.s a good pincn ol' hitting." 
AftPr Mikn Piazza strurk out for the' rourlh timc\, Hobin Vnntura lined a doubll' to IPl't finld. Vnntura had bnPn in a 2­lin·-31 slump. 



Thursday, September 14, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
NASCAR 
Winless Waltrip will race for Earnhardt teaill in 200I 
"The pressure is on him to Since Earnhardt Jr. has two a Busch car since 1982, but is Cup next season, Earnhardt Associated Press win," Earnhardt said. "But why wins this season and Park has giving it up next season in said. he hasn't won a race vet is cir­one, Waltrip said hc1 realized favor of three Winston Cup "There will be other opportu­MOOHESVILLE, N.C. cumstantial. He has a lot of what would be expected of cars. nities for Ron,'' Earnhardt said. 
Winless in 454 Winston Cup credits to his name and the mix him. Waltrip now leads all Since the engines and setups "I just felt that going with Mike me.es. Midiad Waltrip is is there, so he is definitely active drivers with tho most differ between Busch and was the best thing to do. I was exp1icting to finally find his way going to be a winnPr." starts without a victory. Winston Cup cars, Earnhardt more comfortable with a veter­to Victory Lane as an employee Waltrip. younger brother of "I can't tell you how great l said he wasn't able to gain an. I don't like to wait too longof Dak Earnhardt Inc. three-time Winston Cup cham­feel," Waltrip said. "The track anything by having a Busch to win." 
Waltrip. ranked fifth on the pion Darrell Waltrip and a 15-record here with Dale Jr. and car. Now that the third team Earnhardt and Waltrip had all-time list of' racing futility, year NASCAR veteran, will join Steve Park being successful, I will be a Winston Cup car, he discussed merging earlier this becanrn the Lhird Winston Cup Dale Earnhardt Jr. and Steve think we're going to be a win­said all three teams can season, but no deal was ever drivPr in The lntimidator's Park as drivers for DEi. ner before too long." exchange information. worked out. Waltrip then garage Wednesday when Earnhardt. a seven-time The move signifies an end to Ron Hornaday, who now dri­agreed in July to a one-yearEarnhardt announced he Winston Cup champion, drives Earnhardt's 18-year associa­ves the Busch car for DEi, contract extension with his would Pxp,rnd his team in his Chevrolet \1onte Carlo for tion with tho Busch Grand wasn't considered to stay in the current owner, Jim Smith of 2001. Hkhard Childress Haring. National Series. OE! has fielded car when it moves to Winston Ultra Motorsports. 
NFL 

Reed steps in for injured Westbrook 
"We looked at him in the pre­Associated Press 
season, he showed good quick­ness," Turner said. "He separat­
Federal-Mogul believes it takes vvel!-educated, 
ASHBURN, Va. ed from people underneath, and
challenged ernployees to achieve real corporate 
Andre Reed will get a chance he's obviously an experienced

success. This is vvhy F-M places college graduates 
to show he can still play when

joining our team into exciting positions vvithin guy. You go with a guy who's 
Washington plays Dallas on

a grovvth-focused vvork environment based upon played in games, and who's 
Monday night. 

our Core Values of teamvvork, mutual respect and made plays." trust. It's also the reason \Ne offer exceptional "Everybody thought I was Reed did much of that in employee training, competitive benefits, a gone, that I kind of jumped Buffalo, where he played from progressive vvork/life balance and business culture 
ship," said Heed, the receiver 

1985 to 1999. He had 941 recep­
designed to promote success on the job and 
who signed a reported one-year. 

tions -second behind Jerry
thr-oughout your per-sonal pursuits. 
$500,000 

Rice's NFL deal with the 
record of 1.214 
Career Fair 

"The coaches are
Hedskins on -and 13,095

·Tuesday. September -. 9th & VVednesday. 
Tuesday. confident I can step receiving yards, 
September 20th_ 
"The coaches

Equal Opportunity/Affir-mative Action Employer. 
in and do the job." the fourth-high­
are confident est total in NFL 
I can step in

Ci) FECJEFl~L 
history. The 
and do the Andre Reed 

seven-time Pro job, and Redskins receiver Bowl selection Let's succeed together 
IVIC>C3LIL 
that's what 
played in four I'm going to Super Bowls.
..
d

0. He caught 52 Washington acquired the 16­
passes for 536 yards last season. year veteran after Michael 
But his performance was over­Westbrook went down with a shadowed by the emergence of 
season-ending knee injury 

Eric Moulds (65 catches, 994 Sunday in a 15-10 loss to yards, seven touchdowns) and Detroit. Redskins coach Norv 
Peerless Price (31 catches, 393 Turner said Irving Fryar will 
yards, three touchdowns). Reed step into Westbrook's starting 
asked to be released after the role, and that Reed will be used 
season with a year left on his in three-and four-wideout sets. contract, and the Bills put him Albert Connell is the other 
on waivers with Bruce Smith starter. 
and Thurman Thomas. 
Entry-Level Engineering Opportunities
Would you lilfe to prepare for Confirmation with other Notre Dame students who are dedicated to growing in their faith? 
The Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago is one of the largest and most ef'ficjent wast.ewater tteatment agencies in. the world. 
The District is scekina qualified individuals in 
the fields of' Civil. Elec;;trical, EnviroJUncmtal. Mechanical and Structural Engineering. 
It's not too late to join the 
Confirmation Preparation Program! 

Please stop by our booth during the College of Engineerina Cuce:r Fair being held on September 20• and 21 st and talk w-ith m~rnbers of" our Engincc-.riog and Human Resources
Siegfried Chapel 

Departments about exciting ar,.d -rewarding career civil service opportunities 'With the
on Tuesday, Sept. 19th 

District and to arrange an interview. "'Inc District 
at 7:00 pm 

will be conducttn..:: intervie~s on September 21st. A copy of" your college transcript EI.J'ld resuznc are r-equestcd.
For more info: 
All positions arc located in the Chicago metro area at one of' our seven treatment plants or at
Fr. John Conley, CSC or 
our main office located just west of" Michigan
Arny Seamon at 631-3389 
Ave. 

or stop by the office of Campus Ministry 
If you are unable to attend the Carocr Day please 
call us at (3 12) 751-S100 or visit our website at W'\VW.ffl\'Nrdgc.dst-il.us. 
in 112 Badin Hall with any questions. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer MIF/D 
--------------·--·-----·------------~---------. ·-· ~ 
,-



..,_ 
I 
l 
1 
I i 
l 
I I 
l 
~ l 
I I I l 
I I 
l 
I I I 
, II 
j 
I 
I 
I 
l 
I 



page 24 The Observer . SPORTS 
OLYMPICS 

IOC confident in Sydney plan 
Associated Press 
SYDNEY. Austrnlia 
Sydney is rr.ady to put on a great show that won't be tar­nished bv the transport prob­lems and ·uwkv strPet look of the 1996 t\tlant:t Olympics. IOC president Juan Antonio 
SamararH'h said Thursday. 
At a news conference on the eve of' his final games as lnwrnalional Olympic Comrnitte.e. leader. Samaranch also announced he was inviting Australian swimming icon Dawn Fraser to sit with him at Friday night's opf'ning ceremony ­app,mmtly ruling her out as the final turchbearnr. 
Undrr oflfln hostile question­ing. Samaranrh also defended the IOC's anti-doping pfforL'i and his intervention on behalf' of Olympic off'irials accused of criminal ,tctivity. 
"Sydney is ready," Samaranch said. "The IOC is very much sat­isfied and confident that arrangements are in place for a very highly sucr.essful games. The enthusiasm of the people is outstanding. The weather should be fine." 
"Sydney is very different from Atlanta," hP added. "The look of the games is fantastic. with ban­ners and so on. But wait until Oct. l to know my impression of the games." 
Samaranch and the !OC were critical of the "look of the games" in Atlanta, where parts of' the ritv werP taken over by street ve~dors and out-of-con­trol commercialism. Tight restrictions werP placed on such activities in Sydney. 
Like Atlanta, Svdnev has experienced problems w(th the Olympic transport system. Dozens of drivers quit the bus service, saying they were angry about working conditions and timetables. 
But Samaranch said he had been assured by Sydney Olympics ;V!inister Michael Knight that "transport will not be a problem during the games." 
"Every games is thP-same." Samaranrh said. "At the begin­ning wn havn transportatinn problems. Yes. they have prob­lems. I think they are solving the problems." ning the show," 

Meam•vhile. Samaranrh said Samaranch said he was his wife, Maria Theresa. was ill unaware of the report and could and would not travel to Sydney. not comment. He invited Fraser. who won four "We are not very worried." he Olympic gold medals and four said. "We are used to read. to silver medals in swimming in see rumors, and so on that are the 1960s, to be his guest at not true." Friday's ceremony. Samaranch said a test fnr the 
"She accepted," he said, "She banned drug EPU -which will be the Olympic first lady." boosts endurance by stimulating 
Fraser has been one of the the production of' rnd blood cf'lls most frequently mentioned can­-has been "successful as a didates for the honor of lighting deterrent" since it was intro­the Olympic flame, but that now duced for out-of-competition appeared unlikely. conlrols before and during the 
The Salt Lake City bribery Sydney Games. scandal boiled over again at IOC Critics say the test is ineffec­meetings this week, with Utah tive because it detects the use of organizers warning the IOC to EPO going bark only a few days, brace for the release ol' thou­while another test -bypassed sands of pages of documt>nts by the !OC -could trar,e the related to the government inves­drug back as far as 28 days. tigation. "The most important thing for 
Samaranch said the JOC us is to make sure the first tests w o u I d we do stand up tu work with the barragp, of
"Sydney is very
Salt Lake legal challenges I
different from Atlanta.
organizing expect will arise," committee The look of the games said IOC vice president president Dick
is fantastic." 
M i t t Pound, head of Romney to the new World see if the Juan Antonio Samarach Anti-Doping documents IOC president Agency. "Science 
can be screened for any false information ahead of their release. 
"To attack members of the IOC onlv with rumors not facts -we cinnot accept," he said. 
One member. Lambis Nikolaou of Greece, said the IOC should move its 2002 general assemblv from Salt Lake to Lausann·e. Switzerland. But Samaranch said, "The session of Februarv 2002 will br, in Salt Lake City." 
Samaranrh, who steps down in July after 21 years as IOC president. was asked whether he would atlend the Salt Lake Games. 
"If I am invited, yes," he said. "I am waiting for an invitation." 
Samaranch was asked about a report from a corruption watch­dog group called Transparency International. At a news mnfer­ence Wednesday in Berlin. Peter Eiger, chairman of the group, said, "On the eve of the Olympic Games. it is worth recording that some of the leaders of the bribe-scarred JOC are still run-
The gay &lesbian student organization 
OutreachND

I 
I 
I 
I 
at the University of Notre Dame

I 
I I I 
i ., I I 
Meeting Thursday at 8:30. New Members Welcome 

.... 
For information go to: www.outreachnd.org or contact: info@outreachnd.org 

may improve over time so we can get a better reach back" 
Samaranch also faced several questions about Mohamad "Bob" Hasan, the IOC member from Indonesia who is under detention in Jakarta awaiting trial next week on r,orruption charges. 
Samaranch wrote to the Indonesian president earlier this vear on behalf of Hasan. The indonesian government criti­cized Samaranch this week for trying to get Hasan released to attend the Sydney Games. 
Thursday, September 14, 2000 
NFL 

Terunates say Aiknlan will return Sunday 
Associated Press 

IHVING, Tr.xas Trov Aikman's teammates believe he'll be back in thr starti~g lineup for the Dallas Cowboys' next gamP. 
Coa.ch Dave Campo, however, wasn't ready af'tf1r just onn practice to say for sure that Aikman will be the starting quarterback Monday night ,Lt Washington. 
"He looked good today," Campo said. "Wti'ro very fortunatP to have an extra day. That gives us a little bit more evalua­tion time." 
Aikman returned to the practice field Wednesday for the first time since suffering his eighth career concussion in the season-opening 41-14 loss to Philadelphia on Sept. :;, He split snaps with Handal! Cunningham during the nf1arly two­hour workout. 
"Troy's Troy. He came out there, threw the ball around and looked like his old self," said tight end Dave LaF!eur. 
Center Mark Stepnoski said Aikman didn't say anything about headaches and seemed like himself during thn work­out. 
"1 don't expect him not to play," tight end Jackin llarris said. "It was good to seo him back out tlrnrc, moving around and throwing the ball." 
Campo wouldn't say if Aikman and Cunningham would continue sharing time in practice this week. and wasn·1 com­mitted when he would decide who will play al Washington. Cunningham completed 24 of 34 passes for 243 yards and three touchdowns while replacing Aikman at Arizona. 
"I don't have a timetable. I'd like to have evorything·done by Thursday, but obviously you can't do that all of the timf1," Campo said. "We have an extra day, so we'll wait and sPe and make a decision when it's good to makP a dPcision." 
Aikman refused to talk to reporters. which is not unusual on Wednesdays at thP Valley Hanch practice facility. HP spoke Monday. saying that he intendPd to play this week. 
"The plan is to play this week, go through the w0.ck of practice and see how things go. But right now that's thP idea. unless symptoms occur throughout the wer,k once we get out and start working out," Aikman said Monday. 
Aikman had nausr,a and headaches aft<'r suffering the lat­est concussion in his 12-year NFL career. During individual workouts last week, Aikman had headaches which hn char­acterized as "minor," but said he had no other rPcurring effects. 
After practice Wednesday, Campo said he wasn't awarP of Aikman having any morn headarhr,s since then. 
OKTOBERFEST-2000 
"Fun for  Sponsored by  
German-American  
the  National Congress  




whole family" 
September 16 

*LIVE ENTERTAINMENT: AL NOWAK+ HIS EDELWEISS 
ORCHESTRA *GERMAN FOOD AND DRINKS SERVED ALL NIGHT *FESTIVAL QUEEN "'SOUVENIRS 
*ENTRANCE DONATION: $7.00 (FOOD NOT INCLUDED) 
DFV GERMAN CLUB 154 I PRARIE AVENUE SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
Doors open at 6:00 p.rn, -Close at 11 :00 p.m. Reservations not necessary but can be made at 291-5186 For more information, call 272-8163 
I 
j 

Thursday, September 14, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
NFL 
Bush brothers star in pros, college 
was out there making plays.

By SCOTT WALLIN 
Whenever you're making

Central Florida Furure 
plays, it's fun. I just went out 
and focused on what I had to OVIEDO, Fla. do. working on my technique. 

It was a pretty good week­working on my alignments. end for the Bush brothers. going out there and just think­Diwin Bush. a member of the ing about making big plays. St. Louis Rams, returned a "It gave me a lot of confi­fumble 15 yards in the fourth dence to let me know I can go quarter for a touchdown to out and get the job done. I just help his team defeat Seattle. have to go out and perform 37-:H. every game." 
His younger brother Davin Defensive Coordinator Gene (pronounced Oay-vin) also Chizik, who oversees the sec­helped his team. tho University ondary. said Bush had the sort of Central Florida, win a of evening everyone felt he game. was capable of having. Bush's 
Bush had an interception, career has been steady, yet five pass breakups and a unspectacular. He started 11 forced fumble. He also had a games last year and made 39 
nifty special  tackles  and  
teams when walked  play he the>  "I enjoyed it beca.use I was out there  six pass breakups, one more than he  
fine  line  making plays."  had Saturday.  
bctwnen 1.hP  Chizik  savs  
end zone and 1-vard line  Davin Bush  consistency alwavs has  
after fielding  UCF cornerback  been· Bush's  

a UCF punt. Wilh the ball in his hands and his momentum carrying him into the end zone, he flipped the ball backward wherr a teammate downed it to bury Northwestern State at its 3-yard linn. That play helped UCF cling to a 9-0 lead as the Demons were forced to run out the clock to halftime after their drive stalled. 
It was a performance coach Mike Kruczek dubbed as Bush·s l'inest at UCF. With Hush being a fifth-year senior cornrrback. he knows time is running out to duplicate that frat morr timP.s. but Saturday gav<' him quilP a boost. · 
"That was a lot of' fun." Bush said. "I nnjoyed it because I 
biggest hur­
dle, but he 
saw that change in fall camp when he was making plays on a regular basis. Although sophomore Asante Samuel opened the season starting at strongside cornerback. Bush earned the No. . 1 job against Northwestern State and has it again for Saturday's game at Akron. 
"He's always had the ability to do some very good things," Chizik said. "I think r,ompeti­tion always creates the best in people. 1 have good competi­tion going on at that position right now. He's a guy who's made plays in practice and we continuously talk about being able to. on a consistent basis. 

make plays. He finally did it Saturday night. I don't think it was really a surprise. It was just a matter of when he was going to do it." · 
It matters little to Chizik who starts. but he said it's impor­tant to the players to achieve that status. Each cornerback will see an equal amount of game lime, so Chizik makes it simple: whoever performs the best gets to start the next week. Bush has no problem with this approach. 
"(Chizik) said you just have to go out there and make the best of it and make plays," Bush said. "That's all he's con­cerned about. rt makes both of us go out there and play even harder because both of us want to start. It makes us want to g.o out there and make something happen." 
Besides the competition fac­tor. Chizik also likes the atti­tude he sees from his corners. Bush has maintained a positive outlook even if he has to battle an inexperienced underclass­men for playing time. Attitude. Chizik said, is half the battle. 
"Davin's always been a great kid to work with," Chizik said. "He's always done everything I've asked him to do." 
Kruczek also has been impressed with Bush's mature approach to the game this sea­son. 
"His personality changed," Kruczek said. "l don't know what it is. He changed overnight. I really enjoy being around him. He's grown up and it's gratifying to see that." 
Bush also has his big brnther to offer feedback and they talk often. In fact. Bush called him in Seattle after Saturday's game to offer the details of his evening. 

I, 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Hawkeyes suffer injuries, make changes to lineup 
By LAURA PODOIAK 
The Daily Iowan 
In addition to the start of the Big Ten season this weekend. the Iowa women's soccer team faces another challenge in the e a r I y 
going of the.2000 season 
injuries. 
Since t h e begin­ning of 

the sea-Jorgensen son Aug. 25, the Hawkeyes have seen three of their starting defend­ers go down with injuries. rirst it was freshman Katie Poole. who suffered a season­ending stress fracture in her foot. and will probably red­shirt this season. Next. it was sophomore Teesa Price, who suffered a second-degree MCL tear in her knee during a routine slide tackle in the Utah State game. "It was a freak soccer acci­dent. She caught it just right. Something just had to give, and it happened to be Teesa's knee," coach Wendy Logan said. And finally, the last blow was to Lindsey May, who went down with a foot injury in the game against Iowa State last Friday. In addition to losing these three key players. Joni Anderson, one of the Hawkeves' defensive leaders last season, suffered a foot injury last spring. Anderson has yet to see the field this season because of the nagging injury. "Her injury in the spring slowed down her conditioning this summer. and so she 

wasn't in any kind of soccer shape when she came back," Logan said. "Her injury is defi­nitely a loss to the team " 
The loss of players to injury has caused a couple of the players to engage in a kind of game of musical chairs to help fill in the vacant spots. The two most noteworthy changes have been the shuffling around of senior Linzy Wolman and sophomore Jamie Jorgensen. 
Wolman began the season as a forward and sometimes a midfielder, but when 'the defense started to thin out before the St. Louis game on Sept. 10, Logan looked to Wolman to fill in at a defen­sive position. 
"Linzy has· been the biggest change. It is a give-and-take situation. We lose a lot with her in the back because we lose an attacking dimension, but she gives us what we need in the back," Logan said. 
Wolman said that the most important thing is "to keep the rhythm going" as players go down with injuries. 
"All I care about is that we are doing good. Whatever helps the team," Wolman said about her position switch. 
The other solution has been Jorgensen, who was slotted in a midfield position at the beginning of the season. She didn't see much action there because when Poole went down in the first game of the season, the team looked to Jorgensen to fill the gap in the back. 
Jorgensen said that the two positions are not extremely different, so the change was not difficult for her. 
"The biggest difference is the fact that you don't get to see the goal and get into the offense. Defending our goal is more what I am worried about," Jorgensen said. 
Recycle the Observer. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 201 Security Buildln1 Notre Dame, IN 46556-0397 T: (219) ilt-5882 Fu: (219) 631~5711 

JERUSALEM 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Fr. David Burrell, C.S.C. Julliet Mayinja, Assistant Director International Study Programs 
I 

.iffON•JAY SEPTEMBEB 18, 2000 4:45P.M. 214 DEBARTOLO 
ALL ARE WELCOME! 
I I 
I I I 
l 
I 
' 
~ 

page 26  The Observer . SPORTS  Thursday, September 14, 2000  
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL  NFL  
Martinez to pitch amid  Kicker faces Raiders in showdown  

Associated Press
racial controversy 
i\ssoci~1c<I Press 
CLEVl'.L!\ND 
:\s if' thtirn wasn't enough b a d b I o o d b 11 t w 1w n I' nd r o Ma.rti1wz and thti ClPvtdand Indians. now this. 
Marti 11 l'Z r ,, v t' a I I' d II 11 
\Vnd1wsday that as hP got rPady 
to pitch in 
rn!i(,j' l'or 
lhl' Boston 
Hcd Sox 
during 
(;am!' :, or thP Al. playoffs at .Jarobs FiPld last (klob1\r. lw w,Ls showt~rcd with racial slurs by somn fans and n'rr>iwd onp clf'ath thrnat. 
"I rPnwnib.-r bPing told wh,,n I was v,arming up. 'You·rl' going to br shot.'" Martin,,z told Boston rPportPrs. "Tlwy wrr<' calling mP 'bnancr' and saying, 'Co back to your country, you don't bf'long in this r.ountry.' That camn from fans who probably just wanted ITIP to 

last October
gl'l out or ''They said so [much] 

expendable when the Haiders
or in April
thBrn. 
discriminating stuff 

made Sebastian Janikowski 
I 
"Thnv said so lmu,~hl dis­criminating stuff to nw. il would sound unreal. It was tlin first time I (WPr !ward such things 
and l hf!ard thf'm C!Pvrland." 
when he to me. it would pitched at 

their first-round pick in April. Jacobs Field 
Familiar with the fleeting
sound unreal." 

job security of an NFL kicker, year. 
earlier this 

Nedney asked Gruden f'or his Pedro Martinez () 11 
release in May only to !'ind himself held r,aptive in
Red Sox pitcher Thursday 
here in 
It's tiw iwcond tinw in thref'

1 
years that a pitcher has acrusPd fans sitting in thP

1 
I 
righl-l1rdd cornr>r in Cleveland of' vPrbally taunting them dur­ing tlw postsPason. 
Tornnt(/'s !>avid W<'lls. then with tlw Nt•w York Yankn1\S, said Indians fans sitting nr.ar 
of' camp, which is what I injury for tlw first time. didn't want," hr said. "That's F'.larn. who sharns thP N1:1, why I was a litl!P ups11t." r<1rnrd with a (1]-y,trd field 
In his final meeting with goal. brokn lwo bonns in his Grudon on the day Im was lower bal'k wh<\11 l1n was llat· cut, ;liednny told tlrn coach Lennd on a kickoff r<'turn that he lookorl forward to Sunday against Atlanta. defeating him in th11 J'utun~. "IL was tlrn way I landnd 
"I remember that," Grudon morn than anything nlsc." lw· said Wednesday. "I would said. "I r,,it somnthing go in just tell Joe, l!rn feeling's my back and I tried to gnt up mutual." and couldn't g,,t up. My right 
Nodney's hislory with tlw .l1·g was kind or numb." Haidnrs gainod him instant Wh<'n Bronl'os trai1wr Sl<'V<' crodibility with Broncos Antonopulos arriv1\d on thn coach Mike Shanahan. who !kid, Hlam fnarcd tlw worst. was f'irnd by Davis !'our "I told him. ·1 l'a.n't i'P<'l my games into his sncond s1'ason right !Pg. I ran't movn it," lw as u head niac:h said "II<' was just trying lo 
Sinee his d n part u r 1\, k<'np mn calmnd down. l Shanahan is 9-1 against the krrnw it was mv back. I k1ww Oakland. it wasn't anything in my Ing. I 
"I think I havt~ a bon<l with just rouldn't move it." Coach Shanahan" NPclnny /\ftrr lrning taknn to l111' said. "fie hospital. 1•:lam s a i d . I " a r n P d h ,, 
'You're not "/ want to he able had fracturPd to the level two bo111•s
to walk offthe _field 
that I am attaclwd to his
andjust kind ofgive
yet. but vc'rt!'braP and we're both Jon Cruden a look. " was told hP on thr would bP sict,,. s a m e linPd for at
Joe Nedney
page." lnast a month.
Broncos kicker
" L e t ' s Judging l'rom just put it tl11' lrnavy this way, if brae<' that he didn't makfi any field rnsPmbled Buzz Lightynar's goals, he'd still be on our jct par.k. Elam would do wnll team," Shanahan said. "ll<1 to return bc-l'ori' thn Pnd of was a slam dunk as soon as the snason. he tried out. On the serious "I'm not surn about thn side, he r,ame in and rnallv time frame." lw said. ''f'v<' 
did well." . 

heard everywherP from 4-to-
While Nrdncy mad,, a good 6 Wl'Pks, 6-to-8. 8-to-12, so I first imprnssion by converting gu,'ss it just dnpends on how two 53-yard field goals in my body rnacls to it. I just practice Wednesday, Elam want to gPt on tlw l'inld as spoke publicly about his fast as I can." 
the visitors' bullprn madP vul­g,ir remarks to him befort~ Came :i of thn !\I,CS in 1998. 
\.'lartinez managed to block out the crowd and pitched six no•hit innings last (ktobPr as the lit\d Sox compl1,tcd tlrnir improbablo comeback from a 2-0 def'irit to beat tlw Indians and advanc1•. 
Martint\Z dismissnd the taunts as !'ans cuught up in the excitf'ment of' rooting !'or the Indians. 
"It's normal in sports to hav!' your funs in your homr­town gt't on the visiting play­Prs. That's how I Lake it. Thov just said somr things b,~caus;i they knew I could probably b1•at up on tlrn ClPVf)iand Indians," :Vlartinrz said. 
"I don't pay attPntion. I wou Id just say those wen• the rrnzy fans with a lot Lo drink and who knows what Plsc." he said. 
M1Lrti1rnz has owned the Indians throughout his carc1ir. going 8-0 with a 1.47 EHA, including two wins in last year's playoffs. 
Martinez nevflr mentioned 
the taunting 
Dl:NVIm 

Joe Ncdnny isn't asking l'or m u c h . ll n do l' s n ' t n n I! d to kick th1) ganw-winning l'iPld goal or C'VP-11 makl' an impad against the team that reloased him nearly thrne vveeks ago. · 
;\s his fornH:r boss, ;\I Davis. would sav: "Just win. 
baby." • 
Afl<,r his first practicl' wilh tlrn I) e n v <' r B r o n c o s o n Wednesday, Nedncy insisted 
h<' has nn sc,orn to scttln wilh llrn Oakland [{aiders but mad,i it cl<'ar that lw would lovP lo bflat Davis and coach .Ion Grudl'11. 
llis chance will comP Sunday when tlrn Broncos (1­11 play at Oakland (~-OJ in an Parlv .'\FC Wnst showdown. 
"I ·want Lo be able Lo walk off the field and jt1st kind of giv<' Jon Grud<'n a look," Nedney sai<l. "Smile al him and kt the actions speak for themselves. Not necessarily say he mado the wrong deci­sion, but: 'I gotr.ha. "' 
Nedney, signed by the Broncos to replace injured kicker .Jason Elam. spent the final three games of 1999 with Oakland but became 
night. he'll make his first start at Clevnland sinr.e April 
30. whr.n he was ejPctBd for hitting Indians second base­man BobPrto Alomar. 
Martinez was susp,~ndf'd for fivP games for hitting Alomar in the backside aftl'f he was warned by umpirt\S not to rntaliatP after Clev1dand's Charles Nagy hit Boston's Jose 
Offerman. 


David Overbeeke (Gen. Manager E-business, GE Aircraft Engines)
September 15 
"Business to Business E-commerce" 
September 29 
October6 
October27 
November3 
November 10 November 17 December 1 
_ 
Geoff Robertson (Vice President of Engineering, mvp.com) "Starting a B2C Company" 
Michael Cullinane (Chief Financial Officer, divine interVentures) "How to Value an E-business" 
Rick Spurr (Senior Vice President, Entrust Technologies) "Internet Security Threats and Measures to Deal with Them" 
Colleen Sullfv8n (Dir. of Information Systems, Alltel Communications) "Data Warehousing and Mining for Building Business Intelligence" 
Reuben Slone (Vice President of Global E-business, Whirlpool) "Supply Chain Management" 
Cheryl Aetterick (Manager, PricewaterhouseCoopers) "Conducting E-business Assessment" 
Dr. Anatole Gershman (Director, Andersen Consulting) 
"Emerging Trends and Technologies in E-commerce" 
All lectures held from 10:4oam-12:05pm 
Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business Notrc·n.:unc focull), st.aff and students arc wclcmnc to .ittcn<l these 1>rcscntations 
,,. 
COLLIGI NIGHT 
MONDAYS & THURSDAYS 
9 PM -I 2 MIDNIGHT UNJ.l~ITJD B@WLING 
$5 PER PH.SON SHOES EXTRA 
Beacon Bowl -4210 Lincolnway W, South Bend 
234 -4167 


Oakland until lie was rnt Aug. 27. 
"They let me go al the end 
September 1 

page 27

Thursday, September 14, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
I 
_... 'I 

Come visit Jesus in Eucharistic Adoration. He too has 
been hungry, weary, lost, and lonely. He waits tor you. 
"Each mo(flent that you spend with Jesus will deepen your union with Him and make your soul 
everlastingly more glorious and beautiful in Heaven, and will help bring about an everlasting 
peace on earth. When you look at the crucifix, you understand how much Jesus loved you. 
When you look at the Sacred Host, you understand how much Jesus loves you now." 
Mother Teresa 

"The Holy Eucharist contains the whole spiritual treasure of the Church, that is, Christ 
himself... He who is the Living Bread, whose flesh, vivified by the Holy Spirit and vivifying, 
gives life to men." Vatican Council II 

"Sooner would heaven and earth turn to nothingness than would My Mercy not embrace a 
trusting soul. Let no soul fear to draw near to Me, even though their sins be as scarlet." 
Jesus to St. Maria Faustina 

Monday l l :30pm -Tuesday 1 0:45pm, St. Paul Chapel, Fisher Hall Friday 12:00 -5:00pm, Lady Chapel, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
There is no special format, you can pray, read, write in ajournal, or just sit silently. This is your special time each week to spend with Jesus, truly present in the Blessed Sacrament. For more information, or to sign up for a timeslot, please contact Mary Tarsha 4x2469 (tarsha.1 @nd.edu ) or Lisa Demidovich 4x0847 (ldemidov@nd.edu). 
Areyou hungry? 
Do not labor for the food which perishes, but for 
the food which endures to eternal life, which the 
Son ofman will give to you. . . I am the bread of 
life, he who comes to me shall not hunger. Jn6:21.Js 
Areyou weary? 
Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, 
and I willgiveyou rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me; for I am gentle and lowly in 
heart, and you will fmd rest for your souls. Mt 11:28-9 
Areyou lost? I am the way, and the truth, and the life; no one comes to the Father, but by me. Jn 14: 6 
Areyou lonely? I will not leave you desolate; I will come to you... Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be 
afraid. Jn 14= 1s. 21 

l 
l 
~ l 
l l 
. 
.., 

page 28 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 14, 2000 
' I I .._ NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Knight says goodbye to Indiana 
and in every other way far out­number the people that have agendas that don't involve the students first of all." 
Knight was fired three days after he grabbed and berated freshman Kent Harvey, who had called out, "Hey, what's up, Knight?" a greeting Knight regarded as disrespectful. 
Several players threatened to transfer after Knight was fired, but all of them decided to remain when assistant Mike Davis, who had recruited many of them, was selected interim coach by athletic director Clarence Doninger on Tuesday. 
Knight urged the students to continue supporting the team and the new coach. 
"When you go into Assembly Hall for the first game this year, I want you to remember what your moms and dads. your brothers and sisters. your aunts and uncles and friends that have been in those seats before you have meant to our basket­before you have given to bas­ketball. I'll be very proud of you for doing that." 

A university spokesman called it "an awfully gracious speech." 
"Students have always been important to him, and I'm glad they got to see him tonight," IU vice president Christopher Simpson said. "Twenty-nine years is a long time. There were some highs and lows, but I cer­tainly didn't take offense at anything he said." 
Neither did the students, who greeted Knight with applause and cheers as he approached the platform at the edge of Dunn Meadow and then kissed his wife, Karen, as she dabbed her eyes with tissue. 
"I hope that's not inappropri­ate physical contact." Karen Knight said, drawing laughter. 
Forward Tom GP-yer called the kiss "the most touching part" of Knight's appearance. 
"People don't see that side of 
coach. It's just 
sad that they had 
to wait until 
ball team. "This is a great now," Gever said. And I want One banner in
university. " 
you to the crowd read mean the "Free 29 years of same thing Bob Knight IU junk," but to this bas­most signs sup­
former Indiana head coach 
COLLEGE SPORTS 

Commitee approves gambling legislation 
I • 
' 
I 
,• I • 
I 
t 
t I 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 

Bob Knight bid farewell to Indiana University. saluting cheering studenls and urging them to forget about the fresh­
man who played a part in the coach's fir­ing. 
"Let that kid be a student and let 


him get on K I ht 
with life," n g Knight said Wednf1sday night. "This thing, believe me. had hap­
pened to me long before that siLualion took place. That kid is not responsible for my not coaching at Indiana. and make sure you understand that." 
The peaceful crowd at Dunn Meadow was estimated by police al about 6.000. Some stu­dents watchPd from the roof of a fraternity house across the stree l. Otl1ers clirn bed trees that ringed the meadow, the site of' many campus protests in the 1%Os and '70s. Many hoist­ed signs of support for Knight. who was fired Sunday for vio­lating a zero-tolerance behavior policy imposed by university president Myles Brand. 
Knight never mentioned Brand by name, and he took only a few brief jabs at the administration in his 20-minute talk. 
"This is a great university," he said. "Trustees, administra­tions. faculties change ... but this university has really stood the test of time, because the really good people that take care of you in the classroom 
ket b a I I team," he said. 
"People change over the years. and that changes situations, for good and for bad, but don't let the student body, the energy, the enthusiasm the student body has had for basketball, please don't let that change. If you want to do something to remember me by, do that. Continue the same energy, the same enthusiasm the students 
Thundoqa oPe afudenls niqltt. .Students Pecelve 25% off meal p•lce wrlli IJOUP student I.D. 

~on 

.. 
u£1 

-
f\-Cfchlono' s moat unique dinioq ••pe..f•nce Locat .. cl In fl.e bNWfftJ ot tbe H1sfol'ic 100 Center In M1sJ.awalro (219) 257-1792 www.100cenfer.com 
Pulling Your Hair Out? Come To: 
"Contemporary Hair Styles 7Days AWeek" 1811 South Bend Ave. South Bend IN 46637 (219) 271-7674 
$2 OFF WITH THIS Ao THRU Ocr. 1ST! 

ported Knight: 
"Politics + a 
punk + cowards 
railroading of a great man" ... "Career victories. Knight: 763, Brand/Doninger: O" ... "Bring back Bobby" ... "My degree is from Knight school." 
Colin Banta, 19, a freshman from Griffith, said Knight made his point with the administra­tion "in a subtle way.... To most people here, they would have been on his side no matter what." 
-
-
-
-
Associated P rcss 
WASHINGTON 
A bill to outlaw betting on 
college sports advanced 
through Congress on 
Wednesday, winning approval 
in the House Judiciary 
Committee. 
The 19-9 vote approved the measure to ban betting on amateur sports, a type of gambling practiced only in Nevada. The Senate Commerce Committee. approved similar legislation in April. 
RP.p. Shelley Berkley, D­Nev., whose district includes Las Vegas, said opponents will now turn their efforL<; to keep­ing the bill from reaching the floor in the final weeks of the 106th Congress. 
Rep. J.C. Watts of Oklahoma, the House GOP conference chairman. said Wednesdav he still does not think the bill will get passed this year. But the measure is proving stronger than many predicted. 
When it was introduced in January, some supporters acknowledged passage was unlikely. Republican Sen. John McCain of Arizona gave the bill momentum by adopting it as a cause soon after aban­doning his presidential cam­paign, and the NCAA enlisted prominent college coaches. 
Retired North Carolina coach Dean Smith, college basketball's career victory leader, visited Capitol Hill on Tuesday to push for the bill. 
The measure has bipartisan 
--_....,_

---.... -®
-... ­
sponsors in both chambers but is drawing much of its key support from Hepublicans. Backers say the integrity of amateur sports is at stake. 
"This is a chance for Congress, in the last hours of this session, to do something good for a cause many Americans really love and appreciate, and that's college sports," said Hep. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., a sponsor of the bill and its chfof proponent on the Judiciary Committee. 
Opponents of the measure say almost all of the gambling on college sports -98 per­cent -occurs illegally, out­side the reach of Nevada casi­nos. 
Frank Fahrenkopf Jr., who lobbies for casinos as presi­dent of the American Gaming Association, called the bill "a cosmetic response to serious campus gambling problems." 
The committee voted down a substitute bill offered by Hep . .John Conyers, D-Mich., that would have created an Amateur Sports Illegal Gambling Task Force and doubled penalties for illegal betting on sports. 
The committee debated another amendment offered by Rep. Asa Hutchinson, R­Ark., to expand the proposed ban to outlaw all sports bet­ting. as requested by profes­sional baseball, basketball, football and hockey. 
But Hutchinson withdrew the amendment at the request of Graham, who said he sup­ported the idea but did not want to complicate the com­mittee vote. 
LATE TO THE NEW ECONOMY PARTY ­THE WORLD'S LARGEST STARTUP 
Jim Corgel General Manager -Net Generation Business IBM 
September 14th -4-Spm in Jordan Auditorium 
Come and hear how Jim Corgel, NDMBA '72, has led the world's largest 
startup. It's a great story ofcorporate e~trepr~neurship, cult~re. 
transformation, hi-tech marketing, workmg wit~ ventur~ cap1tahsts and 
business incubators, and the variety ofnew tactics required to market to 
startups and dot.corns. • . . 
The MBA Marketing Club is holding a contest durmg the pres~ntabon for an entry fee of $5 (2:30 PM -3:45 PM at the door). IBM wd~ pr~­sent a question and the person with the most correct answer will Will a brand new IBM TbinkPad T20 Pentium III (128/20) compu!er, donated by IBM. All proceeds benefit the Notre Dame MBA marketmg club. In the event of a tie a name will be drawn at random. . 
Thursday, September 14, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 29 
...

MEN'S GOLF 
White Sox discover 
Ratay wins medalist honors 
fountain of youth 
Special to The Observer 
Notrr. Damr. junior Steve Hatav had a stellar 1999 f'all snas;m and opcnrd thP 2000 campaign in similar fashion over llw wr.r.kend bv sharing medal­ist honors at the 2000 Radger Invitational, hrId at the par-72. 6.888-yard University Hidge Goll' Course. 
Halav·s !'our-under 212­bark<1d° by matching 22:is from sPnior Alrx Kent and sophomore Brandon Lunh landed Notre Dam,, in a fourth-plncP finish al ihP I!i-tcam <WPnt. six strokes behind Toledo. !lost Wisconsin l'inislwd first at 860. six shots airn,td of l'lmn State. 
"Str.vP had a solid tourna­nwnt.'' said Lunkr. "lt was a good f'irst tournamr.nt. It was windv. and thr. coursP was hard:. so I th in k w11 can improw." 
HaUtv -whosr. 1991) fall sea­son in ·rour Pwnts with thn Irish included a mr.dalisL finish. a nm1wr-up showing and a lirth­plal'l' finish -opPn<•d play on Saturdav with rounds of 71-70 ror a u;w-strokc cushion on Penn StatP·s Matt Abbott while tlw Irish used stf~ady rounds of' 2')(,-2'n to stand in fourth place hPading into Sunday's final round. Hatay then finished with a 71 but Wisconsin ·s Jim Lemon usPd a closing C, 7 to catch him f"or a liP atop thl' lradPrboard_ 
Hatav·s 212 total lies f'or the Sl'<·oncl-b1·st S4-liolr scorp in NotrP l>anw history. trailing only tlw f"our-undrr 209 postrd by Jl'll Con111dl at Llw 1997-98 \1arshall Invitational. llatav·s l"our-undrr showing tics the Irish S4-holn record for best sror<' in rPlation lo par. equaling tlw mark set by threw ottwrs. 
When the game is on the line, we're there for you! 

Youth movement. Rebuilding. A new direction_ 
When used in the world of pro sports. these terms bring to mind franchises such as the 
Milw­
aukee Brewers. Tampa Bay Bucc­aneers and Los Angeles Clippers. Obviously one can under­stand the backlash that the Chicago White Sox manage­ment received that fateful day back in 1997 when they will­ingly entered a movement towards "youth." 
In one day. the Sox gave up their top two starters, their closer, and Harold Baines ­Mr. White Sox who is still pro­ductive in his 20th season in the big leagues. 
As expected, the team strug­gled even more in 1998. rrank Thomas lost his ability to hit for power, no staff ace emerged, and fans stopped coming to the amazingly uninviting Comiskey Park. Tears came to my eyes as I saw my childhood hero ­Gold Glove third basemanNotre Dame's linal-round 292 while Lunke shot 76-74-72 to Robin Ventura -trade hisviddrd an 881 total (+17). the each finish tied for 23rd, at 222_ black White Sox pinstripes for ninth-best 54-110le score in team Freshman Peter Rivas (New the blue of the New York history and the fiflh-best in rela­Orleans. I.a.) had a solid debut Mets.

tion to par. Among the more to his Irish career, carding three The next season yieldednotnworthy tf1ams defeated by 75s to finish tied for 29th at 225; more of the same. A porousthe Irish was perrnnial national Senior Adam Anderson (83-81­left side of the infield allowed power Arizona State (885), 76/240) rounded out the Notre as many balls to go through asKent used three rounds of 74 Dame contingent. 
George W. Rush's mouth emit­ted allowed stupid comments. Once again. my beloved White Sox lost more games than they 


Frank Thomas hadn't topped 20 home runs since 1997_He is currently leading the league in both home runs and runs batted in -no small feat for a man who won back­to-back Most Valuable Player awards in 1993 and '94. 
The vouth movement was perhaps the biggest question mark as the team dropped former all-stars as rapidly as the Bears receiving corps dropped passes. Young out­fielders Carlos Lee and Magglio Ordonez are provid­ing more consistent power than the local power compa­ny. 
The bullpen is perhaps the ..league ·s deepest -no small thanks to the heavily criticized trade in 1997 that netted the team closers Keith Foulke and Bobby Howry, as well as setup man Lorenzo Barcelo. 
Perhaps most impressive has been the team's maturity. Despite huge success early on. the young team has worked through injuries to its top two pitchers, the trade of its start­ing catcher and inconsistency among its young starters. 
Poliowing the dismantling of both his World Champion Bulls and contending White Sox within a nine month peri­od, Jerry Reinsdorf was about as well-regarded in Chicago as Al Capone. Now, the man looks like a genius. 
Fans were calling for the retirement of Schueler after years of disappointing teams. Now the fans praise his shrewdness. 
At the moment the team has the best record in the major leagues. All but one position player will either hit .300 or slug at least 20 home runs. The pitching staff has holes. but still has performed well enough to win. 
won. playing another mean­ingless season in front of empty seats. 
Then came 2000. 
The team appeared eerily similar to the sub-.500 clubs of the past two seasons. They were able to unload two strug­gling starters for an error­prone shortstop in Jose Valentin and a struggling starter named Cal Eldred whose elbow was apparently held together by staples_ 
Oh yeah. after the first week of the season GM Ron Schueler solved plugged the defensive hole at third base with a journeyman converted first baseman named Herbert Perry who runs a dairy farm in the otfseason. 
From the team that once signed Michael Jordan. fans have learned to exper,t the unexper,ted. This season, Lhey have done perhaps the last thing any fan could have dreamed of -they arc win­ning. 
We're not talking winning a series here and there from another cellar-dw01ler. This team swept a seven-game road trip from American League powerhouses in Cleveland and New York. 
The questionable pitching staff? Follm,ving a career in which he was consistent only in his inconsistencv. James Baldwin developed into an all­star. Mike Sirotka went from a . 500 pitcher to the staff ace. Eldred -the poster boy on the Staples catalog -was tied for second in the league in wins entering the halfway mark in the season. 

The team that looked head­ed to the basement is entering the playoffs. After years of coming out to watch the team struggle. I will be in the stands watching this team succeed. It is all the sweeter for myself and other longtime fans devot­ed to this team. We watched Baldwin and Sirotka as they shuffled between Chicago and triple-A Nashville. We • watched all-star second base­man Durham struggle to learn to play defense. 
We remember the then unknown Ordonez coming up from the minors in 1997 and hitting a long home run against St. Louis. How can we forget Lee coming to the majors to play left field. hav­ing never before played the position. 
As George Hurns said in those old "Oh. God" movies, everything has two r.nds. You cannot have hot without cold. good without bad. The joy in watching this team succeed truly comes from years of watching the club fail. The last White Sox title came in 1917 -back when Burns was almost as young as I am today. 
The countdown has started. Oct. 3 l will br. thr.rr My team will be back in the playoffs. Like a father watching a child grow into an adult. I will be standing proud watching the Sox -no longer a squad of struggling youth, but a full­fledged contef!_der . 
The views f'.Xpressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Obsemer. 


• 
FREE Checking •Low-Interest Student Loans 

• 
Convenient ATMs eFREE Visa Check Card 

• 
FREE Internet Banking • Great Rates on Auto Loans 


~ 

Gr NOTRE DAME 19033 Douglas Road 
WIDER Notre Dame, IN 46556 
-­
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 

independent of the University For People. Not for Profit 800/522-6611 www.ndfcu.org 
page 30 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 14, 2000 
Irons 
continued from page 32 
sophomorn ddensivt1 Pnd Byan Botwrts said. "!Ir's a really proud guy. !IP lovPs football. lie 's out tlwrn coaching. l!c's not in full pads but lw's wrnring his lrnlmrt and h1• out then• supporting ,wnry­body." 
Irons said lw has no choice but to support his tPammatcs. 
"I know how hard thry've workPd and tlw commitment thry put into prnparing for this ganrn," lin said. 
Irons knows how hard his team­matrs w11rkPd because hP worknd just as hard. IIP spent just as many hours in thP wPight room. l11• ran just as many wind sprints and lw swPatPd through tlw sanw. two-a­day sumnwr prarli('(~S. 
HPf'or<' th<' injury. lw could inspirP and IPad his trammatns with his rxtra physical rffort.. Now lw has to lnad with his words and his spirit. 
"For lllP, I just lrnvl' lo tak,\ a dif­l'rr1\nt approach in my rol~ as a captain." lw said. "In thr past I h,tv!' bPPn ablP to IPad by rxample. Now I havP to lr>ad \\'ith Pmotion bv cnrouraging my ll'amrnates and · gPtting Pv11rybody f'ocusrd and rPady to play." 
DaviP addt>d: "(;rant Irons has lrnPn tlwrP PVPry sPcond. Obviously hn hasn'l had pads on and lw's not pra('.tiring but lw's just been trt•nw1Hlous." 
You wouldn't expect any less from a leader like Grant Irons. 
The opinions expressed in this cofunm are those ofthe author and not neces.rnrily those of The 
Ubserc1er. 


• 
' 
t 
'I
I .. 
COLLEGE REPUBLICANS 
Informational Meeting 
Hear How You Can Support Local And National Elections 
When:  Thursday, September 14 8:30 p.m.  
Where:  Montgomery Theater, Lafortune Student Center  

Free Pizza Will Be Served 
-------------------,-------­
Thursday, September 14, 2000 The Ohseruer . TODAY page 31 
TOM KEELEY
FOURTH AND INCHES 
REMEMBER, CLASS YOU ARE ONLY ALLOWED ill':1f SHEET OF NOTES FOR THIS TEST 
BILL AMEND
Fox TROT 

MORTON GOLDTHWAIT WELL, LA'TE FROM SCHOOL I MAY SE HOME KINDA 
WANTS ME To PLAY ON HAVE SOME SoRT OF VIDEO FUN Fox, YOU WATCH GAME FooTBALL TEAM CAN'T HIDE ME. WITH HIM. HE SCHEDULED UP IN THAT 
PRACTICE 'I'-' TREE FoRE\/ER. 
FoR 3:15. '\ 

C \ 
" A 
TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE -­
WHATELY 

Is \+ Just Me\ or doe~ our professor \ook r"'e~I\~ +o.~,\i01.r? 
'\ 
I 
,. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 24 Hill worker 26 Left no doubt
1 Popular 1990's 
about

revival 
28 Fix

7Baba-­
30"--one.

(Radner character) 
(opiner's opening)

11 Member of the genus Equus 32 Equinox sign 14 Like some 33 "Let's go, doctors Pedro!" 15 Part of a 35 One of three temple's decor, Ottoman sultans maybe 
36 Some facsimiles 16 Kind of center 
38 Massachusetts 

17 A man has to 
Senator

have one 
39 Rub' al Khali 

19 Warhol subject 
residents

20 Some health 
40 Press

food stores 
conference

21 "Driving Miss 
activity

Daisy" 
41 Oldest of the

playwright 
Brady bunch 

22NewYear's entertainment 42 Bulldogs 23 Word with you 46 Stirs 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

48 Lowing herd's locale, in a Gray elegy 
50 Standout pitcher 51 Record 52 Retrievers' 
relievers? 54 Apple gizmo 56 Chimney output 57 Catalan-born 
band leader 
59-­
Speedwagon 601950's British P.M. 61 Sandinista 
leader 62 Golfer Woosnam 63 Car owner's 
worry 64 Quarters of many quartets 
DOWN 
1 Rail yard sight 2 Second coming 3 Repeated 


Puzzle by Matt Gaffney
4 It may cover a diamond 22 Asian language sAuthor Mario spoken by 32 Vargas--million 6 Common street 25 Vulcan portrayer name 
27 "Master" 
7 It's often made 29 Fine word forwith the eyes librariesclosed 31 Gold statuette8Fan 34 What Polonius 9 Females, in hid behind 
feminist writing 10 Draft, maybe 35 Take --,from 11 National Guard s?meone s book 
buildings 36 DIscIple of 12 Sushi wrap Socrates 13 Wags a finger at 37 End of a threat 
18 Best 38 Arm of the Arctic 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 

Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name 
Address 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
40 Persian Gulf 47 Give the slip dweller 
49 Capital on the 41 Powerful Western Bight of Benin coahtion 
53TVknob43 T-shirt category 55 Escape clauses 
44 It ended about 10,000 years 
57 Affixed one's ago 
mark 45 Some mattresses 58 Stick up 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Marcia Wallace, Lyle Lovett, Fernando Valenzuela, Betsy Palmer 
Happy Birthday: You know that you can do anything that you put your mind to, So what's the hold up? You need to build up your sell-confi­dence so that you won't be afraid to follow your dreams. Success isn't far off, but if you dawdle along the way you may find that someone else will beat you to the finish line. You must focus and not hesitate to pursue your goals. Your numbers: 1, 13, 23, 31, 38,40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get­togethers with friends will promote new romantic connections. Your need to open up mentally to new ideas and lifestyles will result in changes involving friends as well as direction. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Lady luck is in your comer. Get involved in investments that you know will pay off. Real estate will be profitable. Involvement with institutional envi­ronments will turn out beneficially. 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Opportunities for romance are evi­dent, Take advantage of situations that incur meeting new mates, Your energy is high and groups you join will welcome your stamina and aggressive action. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your high energy can be put to good use today. Get busy making the necessary changes in your domestic scene. Make adjustments to offset the dilem­mas that have been bothering you, 00000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 2.2): You will find yourself in the limelight once again. You can organize an evening of entertainment including friends and 
EUGENIA LAST 

lovers. As the night progresses, how­ever, you will want to be alone with your mate, 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your greatest efforts will be in an area that deals with domestic chores or renova­tions. Unexpected bills may cause worry. Do not lend or borrow money or possessions if at all possible. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't jump to conclusions when it comes to your personal life. Overindulgence will be tempting. Don't make unrea­sonable promises. Someone may try to take advantage of you. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Opportunities to make money will develop. Get involved in projects that enable you to work with others. Transportation difficulties may be frustrating, Be precise in your com­munications. 00000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can do no wrong when it comes to financial matters. Lady luck is with you. Social festivities will promote a romance that will supply you with the adventure you desire. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Real estate will pay off. You can suc­cessfully make a residential move or alterations to the home you live in. Unexpected visitors will be a wel­come surprise. 0000 
AQUARIUS (Jan, 20-Feb. 18): You will be competitive today in all that you do. Opportunities for romance will develop through relatives. Be careful while traveling or operating equipment. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Unex­pected good fortune is apparent. Express your demands at group func­tions and ask for the opportunity to have more responsibility. Your home will experience beneficial changes. 
000 




Fall Swing 
Ste1•e Hatay shared medalist honors as the Irish men ·s 

... 
golf team finis/uni fourth al the 2000 Badger /Jwitational.

PORTS 
page 29 


THE page .32 OBSERVER Thursday, Sepre111ber 14, 2000 
VOLLEYBALL 
Irish offset weekend losses, top Valparaiso 3-0 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN Spons Writ,·, 
Houncing baC'li. from a tough loss to No. I Nf'l.iraska. lh<' \\'onwn's vollt'yball Ltiam camP bark strong to shut out Valparaiso Ttwsday. 
ThrPP rons,•ruliVI' lossPs Ln tlw 'fluskPrs. No. 7 UCLA and No 17 Michigan StatP providE'CI tlw Irish wiLh Lh1· motivation tu put away th(, Crusac!Prs in only thrPP garnPs. slamming thrrn I:i-7. I!i-8. and I:i-:i. 
"J think that Valparaiso is a team that we thought WI' 1•otrld bt':tl. but it d<'f'initnly gavn PvPrvorw on tlw tnarn l'{lnf'idnneP going into this WPtd<Pnd," junior lvtarri1' Bomhack said. 
With a ~low start in gamri onP. Valparaiso was abln Lo takt> a 6-3 !Pad bPf'orc tlw Irish offense wok<' up with tlw twlp ol'st'nior Christi Cirton and Homhil1·k. who r1H11bi111•cl lo s1·or1• s1•vcn points in a f'O',,V . .Junior l\lalinda (;oralski ]Pc.l Notrl' llarrn~ with Pight kills and fivP blocks. 
Notr1• l>anw l'ontinu<'cl its domination in tlw sPrond ganw. Parning a i-1 !Pad brforl' falling ;1p,11·t just Pnough lo allo\1 tlw CrusadPrs to nar­row Llw gap with l'ivP straight poinls. L 
Tl11• Irish rPsponckd latl' in llw gam1•, allowing Valparaiso to srorP just lwo rnnn· bef'ori' (;irton ~1 s(wun•d tlw win with 1111' last J'our points on tv,iO kills and two blorks. 
"In !111· third gam1' till' t1,am did a VPry good job 

l~tsh 
ol' c·oming out \\'iLh PxritPnwnt and playing at a 
high lt•vt•I ag;1insl a tram lik<> that." Bomhark said. 
In gam,· thr1'1' artion Notr1• llanw's 1•ntirf' rosl!'r got an opportunity to play. 
With a r.ombi1wct nl'f'ort the Irish hl'ld Valparais11 whil,· rarking up a 10-0 !1•acl l)('fori· allowing tlwm lhP rhanrP to Sl'Ol'!'. 
"I just think it was gn1at lo gnt f'veryo1w on our Lr.am playing linw so that. nvr.ryonn ['nets conJi­dent out on l!w rnurt" Bomhack said. "Coming off tlw wPnk1\nd with thrPP lossos it was definitrly good to hnvf' a win bril'ore this weekend." 
Tim Irish move to 4-~ on the s,rnson whilr Valparaiso !'alls to 2-<). 
Notrr Dami' will travel to Tallahasse,~ this wenkrnd to play in the Lady Seminole Classic: where lt will oppose Florida A&M at noon on Seniors Jo Jameyson (left) and Denise Boylan defend during the Sept. 1 win over Fairfield. The Irish defeated Friday and Florida Statn at 7 p.m. Valparaiso on Tuesday. 

LIZ LANGfThe Observer 

FOOTBALL 
Irons finds positive aspect to injury, lost playing time 
This was supposed to be the that he nxpected big things all part of the adversity. I look ents and praying about it, I that I can't load by fixample year that Grant Irons thn solid from him this year. at this like a challenge." truly believe things happen for through my play but that f'ootball player brcame (;rant "I've always had something The challenge of replar.ing a reason,'' he said. "llopefully donsn't stop rnn from lcadi ng." Irons the All-Anwrican. This to prove,'" the snnior captain Irons has bAen lost in the shuf'­things will work out in thn It would take .a lot more than was supposnd lo be tlrn year said. "There is nobody that tle of Arnaz Battle's injury and future. I understand injuries an injurnd shouldnr to stop that tlw nxpects more things from me the questions at quarterbar,k. arc part of the gamn. I just Irons l'rom leading. lllPfl' IllPll· than myself. I just need to gn But Ilob Davie and the rest of' have lo recognize that." Athlntically. acadnmically. lion of' his out there' and provP to myselr the Irish know how important Thr. injun'd senior captain emotionally and spiritually. name sent and my family." Irons is to this team. could be complaining and Irons cmbodi1is lnadership. shivHs Instead, becausP of' an injury. "You losP Grant lrons. who is bemoaning his lost season. I le At tlrn end of thn Nebraska down quar· 2000 will be the ynar Grant -you know, someone that has could be sulking and bitter ganrn, Irons was at the front or terhack's Irons tlw football playrir bren overshadownd brcausr of' about his unlucky brnak. the ttmm when thny raised SpinfJS, bnr.omes Grant Irons thn /\rnaz," Oavie said. "If' tho But that's not what a lcadnr their lrnlnrnts to tlrn studPnt l!egis tPacher. Grant Irons the men­Arnaz situation wouldn't have would do. S!lCtion. With his onn good arm, Philbin tor. Grant Irons thP chc'er­happnned, it would bn huge "Now I am unable to play Im cncourag1!d his classmates hnld up his !oadnr. right now, talking about Grant and be out there on tho linld to scream cvnn !oudnr in pi!:turn .. I am going to turn a nnga­Irons. For our rootball team, it with my tnammates." Irons apprnciation f'or their tnam's and told a tivn into a positive and make is huge. So that's a challenge." said about his new roln on thn efforts. national Lim best of thn situation." he Irons is taking this setback in tnam. "But I still have the "Grant is out tlwrc with us," Lrlnvision said. "This is life. Things in lifo stride, however. opportunity to cnr,ourage my audi1111cn an~n·t always perfect. This is "After talking with my par-teammates. It's hard to know see IRONS/page 30 


ar Olivet vs. Washington
Volleyball ~c I~ 
Samrday, 12 p.m.
Saturday, 12 p.m.

SPORTS • Lady Seminal Classic 
.... ATA 
at Tallahassee, Florida Friday -Saturday vs. Purdue at Syracuse .~ Saturday, 12 p.m. Saturday, 1 p. m.
GLANCE ~" 




