
Mouse ears 
Race relations 
Check out the review ofin die-rock sensation 
The Observer takes a look at the challenges 

Tuesday
)v!odesl Mouse's newest release The Moon and 
Notre Dame faces in uniting students of 
Anarctica. 
different cultures. 

SEPTEMBER 5, 
Scene . page 16 

In Focus 

2000 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

VOL XXXIV NO. 10 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
U.S. News & World Report ranks Notre Dame at No. 19 
Moore said University officials ers will rank a college whether Three schools -Columbia At 9.5 percent, Notre Dame's By JASON McFARLEY 
are pleased with thA ranking or not it submits the requested Univeristy, Corneil University· graduation rate was beaten News Writer 
but noted that they don't pay information. "We figure that if and the University of Chicago -only by Princeton and Harvard. nny gniat deal of consideration a lot of people are going to be tii>d for the No. 10 spot. "That's a category that we've Notre Dame ranked 19th in to such lists. The annual ly pub­making judg-E m o r y always done well in," Moore 
U.S. News & World Report's lished guide is a means to ments based University said of the 1999 graduation fig­
"2001 .\mericn's Rnst Colleges" gauge national perceptions nf on this publi­"Certainly ifthere's going ranked just ure. guide. which was released to schools but not necessarily col­cation, we to be a list ofthe top ahead of The University also fared well news­
leges' educational quality, might as well Notre Dame, with its retention rate of lirst­
universities in the country, 

stands \1oore said. gi\'e them ·while the ye ar students from 1999 to Munday. "Through the years, the ranks accurate, up­we should be on it." University of 2000. Notre Dame retained 98 This is the only reflect changes in the to-date infor-California­percent of first-year students. second methodology of the ranking sys­mation," Berke le v According to the guide, 83
Dennis Moore 

consrcu­tem. not anything we did at the Moore said. pl aced j us·t percent of the Class of 2003
director of public relations

tive year University," Moore said, adding Ivy League behind. Notre entered the Cniversity in the 
N o t r e that there may be no legitimate schools Dame finished fall of 1999 as graduates in the 
ll a m e means to rank universities with Princeton. with 85 total top 10 percent of their high 
<'anwd the Moore differnnt missions and goals. Harvard and Yale topped this points in the survey. school classes. That, in addition 
19th spot Notre Dame submits statisti­year's list of best colleges. U.S. News & World Report to a 35 percent acceptance 
on tlw list. cal information about the Harvard earned the top spot evaluates schools on 16 mea­rate. make s Notre Dame one of 
"Cnrtainly if' there's going to University prior to the maga­with 99 points. Last year's No.l sures of academic achievement, the most selective universities 
be a list of the top universities zine's published list, but not California Institute of with academic reputation, stu­in the nation. 
in tlw country, we should be on ever ranked university and col­Technology slipped to No. 4. dent selectivity. faculty Other factors used to rank 
it," said Dennis Moore. Notre lege participates in this prac­The Massachusetts Institute of resources and graduation and schools included SAT and ACT 
Dame's director of public rela­tice. Technology rounds out the top retention rates given the most scores, faculty to student ratios, 
tions and information. According to Moore. publish-five universities for 2001. weight. and alumni donations. 





SMC renews Eldred's contract for five-year term 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI became the first lay woman ishing number of women's 
S,iint Mary's l\ews Editor to be appointed to the office liberal arts colleges. 
and ALICIA ORTIZ of the president at the "The facu 1ty has be en 
News Writer College. working on revisions to cur­
"[ saw the need for better riculum," Eldred said. "Over
Saint Marv's Board of community building within the years l've been here we
Trustcies rcn.ewed Marilou the College and connecting have also developed theLldrNl's contract as presi­
Saint Mary's more to the Master Plan."
dent of tlrn College .l1111P 30 
South Bend community," The plan includes renova­
for a five-vPar term. Eldred 
Eldred said about her accrp­tion and aesthetic improve­
has h "l d ·tlw o ffi c n since 
tance of the position. "This ments around the campus
1<)<Ji. 
campus felt like where I and exlensive building pro­
"Slw has brought a SCl1SI' of wanted to be." jects. Another of the College'snnnrgy and direction to the 
Students were generally focuses during Eldred's term
Col!(~!{1' ... said Bill Schmuhl, 
pleased with the decision to has been redefining athletics
chairman of thP Board of 
renew Eldred's contract. at Saint Mary's, whichTrustees. "Eld rPd has scrvf!d 
"Personally l think it's real-involved hiring Lynn
as wonder­
1y wonder­Kachmarik, the current ath­
f'ul ro!11 
ful to have a letic director, in 1999. 
· modPI for 
"From what I understand, 
female "Saint Marv's, in the last
lhe wompn 
she is very up on letting president at four years. has undergone a
of Saint 
an all lot of great changes including
~I a r y · s students come in and talk 
women's the Master Plan and hiring a
Col!r,g!'" 
to her. I think she does a 
college." new Athletic Director."
B e f' o r (' wonderfiiljob. " senior Page WarstlPr said.
E ! d r (\ d ' s Warstler· The first visible steps in the
contract 
said. "l Master Plan are the new 
W II S Melissa Wheeler 
think slrn's Dalloway's Coffrehouse and
rPnPwnd. 
Saint Mary's senior done a the Welcome Center at thethe Board 
great job." entrance to the College.
sougl,t input " F r o m Hegina Ilall was also renovat­
from thP 
what I understand she is very Pd over the summer as part
studPnts and faculty or the up on letting students come of the plan.
Collogr. Tlw response was 
in and talk to her," senior "We certainly want to
unanimously positive, and the I\Ielissa Whef~ler said. "She increase overall e11rollment 
campus was pleased with 
just wants to get tu know the but also attract more minori­
Eldred's performance as the studenls. I think she does a ty and overseas students to
lea<lcr of llw Saint Mary's \vonderful job." the College," Eldred said. "Mycommunity. Arter reviewing Elrlred has spent much of vision was to bring all of
the focdback from the stu­
her career working in those to fruition."
dents and faculty the Ronrd 
Catholic women's colleges, Eldred's next two tasks
agreed to renew Eldred 's 
and hopes to continue to do since her contract was contract. 
so. She believes that it is renewed will be to continue
Eldr<·d camP to Saint 
important to maintain the to improve first-year enroll-NELLIE WILLIAMS/The PObserver
Mary's to replace President 
reputation of thn College in Saint Mary's president Marilou Eldred ( center) was offered a contract
William Hickey in June of 

the face of thi> rapidly dimin-renewal this summer. Among her noted achievements since she took 
see ELDRED/page4
1997. At the same time she 

office In 1997 was the new Welcome Center, part of the Master Plan. 


page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, September 5, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 

For love is God 
Kids today. 
Ilow many tinws have I !ward that from dis­
gruntlrcl adults, frustratPCl with America's youth 
and their lack of morals, consideration or tact? 
Wrll. this past wrckrnd I 
was a disgruntlnd adult. 
Kate Steer 
For Uw past thrc<1 years. I haw attrndrd Notrn Dame '1011111 f'ootball ganms as a 
Associate
studrnt. and I have onjoycd tho spirit and atmosplmr11 of News Editor tlw student s<1ction. Though the process of gntling stu­dent licknlo; leaves something to be dnsired. it's always a rush to walk up to the window ,vith the hope of' gPtting spectacular scats with my frim1ds. And ynt I don't exaggerate when I say that I have ncvf1r actually sat ill those assigned seats. Ewn when last yr-ar we seornd sixth row seats, wr usually claimed third or fourth row by virtue of gntting to the stadium early. So when w11 walknd into the stadium a half an hour befon, garrni limn -our normal arrival time -we t'XpPctml to bti abhi to sit roa.sonably near the f'ro11l. Tlw thn•n of' us clainwd snats livn rows in front of' 011r ,wtual sPats and psycl1nd oursclvns up for th11 arrival oftlrn team and thn band. 
Tim bll'ai'.h<'rs fil!Pd up quickly. with people who had tic•kpts in that section anrl pnnplr who didn't. with drunk and sober fans. with my follow sludf•nts. A fow· minutes artcr kickoff. a group of' fiw or six girls walkPd in. clnrnanding their srats -thn on<1s WP W<•rn in. 
Mind you. this was no polite confrontation. like "Arc thcs11 your spat-.? I may be reading my tick­Pt wrong," but rather a bark full of expletives. 
Sonrnonn ,warbv who was confused about their own scats dirPclt~d them across the aisle. Evnntually Limy rnturned. more demanding than lwforn. W1! accommodated them, making room that wasn't rrally there. hut this wasn't satisfactory. 
I don·t know if theso womnn had bmm drink­ing, but I almost hope that they had been. so as to hav11 sonrnthing lo which I can attribute their actions. 
"(;et tlw f"** out of our f"'**ing seal-.," one of tlmm dmnandml repcatodly. 
Tim morn slw llung these strings of hate at us, tlw more indignant and prone to stay we bncame. I informed Urnm that if we wen, dis­placNl, we would b1• forced to ask people to leave our seats. who would have to do the same, and that I didn't want to ruin other people's gameday exp1ffim1ces. 
"I don 'learn when' you go, but get out of' our f..**ing seats." 
Obviously. 
Wlwn the rest of their party showed up, in the sncnnd quartnr, we did move. llowever, I rncog­nizml mm of the girls as a former HA and there­fore graduate who didn't have a ticket in the stu­dPnt s11ction. 
Tlw isstw at hand is not these people's disrn­ganl for how tlrn system works: even if you havr, tidrnb and arP entitled to thosP seats. you have to show up narly to claim thnm. Hathcr, my prob­lmn is with the way I was treated. There was 111w<ir a pleas£' or thank you. but instnad words I am not allow1\d to say. 
I could be wrong. but I thought that we attend a Catholic Univ11rsity at which we should at least be aware of and havr, rnspnct for Christian val­ues and morals. even if'we don't embrace them. So b1! nirn. We're all pnople. we all deserve to be trealnd with rnspect. 
"lklovml. Int us lovn one another: for love is of God; and every one that loveth is born of God, and knowelh (;od." -1 John 4:7 
'/'he //iews expressed in lhe Inside Column art' thos<' of l/1p author and nor nPce~sarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Maureen Smirhe Sam Oerheimer Kace N,lgengasc Chris Srntt Killin Turner Graphics 
Spores Jo~c Cuellar Molly McVoy Dana Mangnuson 
Viewpoint Production 
Kurt Hoga.ml Kerry Smith Lab Tech Pete Richardson 
The ( )h~nvcr (USP\ 599 2~4000) I\ puhli,..Jicd Mo1ut1r through hida~· e-xc..r:pl during c.·x.un Jnd v..1couion paio«.k The ( )bserve, i!i, a m~mher of 1hc t\,;.-.o~J.lu.·d Prc)I:,. :\II rcpmduclion riglit:-i .Ht: re-served, 
THIS WEEK IN MICHIANA 
Wednesday  Thursday  
. Art: Fernwuod Botanic  . Game: The Ultimate  
Garden: Clark Lecture Hall  Corn Maze, 5 to lO p.m. at  

Gallery, Nature Center, Barbott Farms and "Fernwood Flora," pho-Greenhouse tographs by Carol C. . Music: Front Porch Bradlny. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Music: Featuring Oprn 
Stage with Wild Carrot. 8 p.m. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Presidential candidates to debate at Washington U. 
ST. LOUIS 
For the third consecutive election. the Commission on Presidential Debates chose Washington University to host one of threr­nationally televised candidate debates. 
Although facilitic~s prPparations will not begin until September, a subcommittee for Student Activities and Programs is working on orga­nizing student involvement leading up to and during the nvent. 
The subcommittee's ideas include tours of the debate area for mem­bers of the community, parents, and students. WU is the only one of the three debate sites that will have on display oil paintings of rvery presi­dent. The paintings, done by an artist commissioned by C-SPAN. will then move directly to the White 
UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS 
GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY 
Branch ordered to stop research 
AUSTIN, Texas 
The University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston came under lire when it was ordered to suspend its enrollment of new inmates for medical research studies. The Office for Human Research Protections, a federal agency that oversees the welfare of' patients at hundreds of universities, ordered UTMB as well as the University of Miami, to suspend some of their clinical research pro­grams. Ofticials with the OHRP were not available for comment. UTMB had been conducting clinical tests on Texas inmates infected with the HIV/All)S virus. Most of the studies involved new drug therapies for IITV/AIDS patient-.. All studies must bn approved by the prisoner and inmates must make a voluntary and uncoerced deci­sion to participate. Reasons cited for the suspension at UTMB include differing interpretations on how to cor­rectly abide by OIIRP documentation guidelines, such as those used to obtain consent from patients. Other con­cerns focus on 01 IRP's request for detailed summaries of Institutional Heview Board meetings at UTMB. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast Accu Weather •for~ca!i.t fof da.vt\mc: conditions and h1\!h tcmocracurc~ 
H  L  
Tuesday  ~  71  50  
Wednesday  ~  77  54  
Thursday  ~  78  57  
Friday  ~  77  56  
Saturday  ~  76  57  

9,Q,~QQ.Q {} ~ u 
Chicago 73 53 New York 68 54 Tampa 89 76
Showers T-sfom,s Ram Fl~r;,es ~,;~ Ice Sunny Pl Clouay Cloudy 
Houston 98 71 Philadelphia 72 50 Washinglon DC 72 56
Via Assoc,.ated Press G1aphicsNel 
.. ...... 
House Visitor·s Center. 
WAS'' 
The committee has also discussnd inter-depart.mental l'ducational opportunities, including lectures and debates. and events involving local politicians and leaders. 
"Student initiative and interest will determine some of' this," said Jill Carnaghi, director of Campus Lifn and member of the committee. 
The number of available tickets for students cannot be determined at this time, in part because the for-
Cabbie will be jailed for shooting 
WASIIINGTON, D.C. 
A D.C. jury found the shooter ol' Gcrnrg11town University Information Services employen Kennnth 'Skip' Amns guilty of mayhem and assault this July, following a trial in which Ames was accused of' start­ing the December encounter which put him in tlrn hos­pital in serious condition and left him paraplegic. Benjamin Alcindore. 43, the cab driver convicted of shooting Ames, will far,e a maximum of lif"e in prison and, a mandatory 5-to-15 year sentnnce whnn he is sentenced on Scpl. 14. The jury noted that tlwy believed Akindorc had acted in self-defense. and acquitted him of the most serious of' tho charg11s, assault with intent to kill. Amns. 45, was shot follow­ing a traffic accidnnt on tlw roadway between the Leavey Center and Hniss Science Cnnter Dec. 22 when most Georgetown students were home for the semes­ter break. Alcindore claimed that Amos had escalat1!d the conflict to the point where he felt thn need to draw his unlicensed 9mm pistol. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather' forecast for noon.Tuesday, Sept. 5_ 
sos 

Via Assoc1a16d Pres£  
Atlanta  84  63  Las Vegas  96  76  Portland  72  54  
Baltimore  86  64  Memphis  94  59  Sacramento  85  53  
Boston  74  54  Milwaukee  65  ,49  St. LOUIS  83  61  

Friday Saturday 
. 
Show: Sky Potpourri, . Open House: Iloosinr 6:J0 p.m. at the Valley Ha.ilroad Musnum Planetarium & Space Open Ilousn foaturing Museum cabooso rides, displays 

. 
Art: Studebaker National and rerri~shments. 11 1t.m. Musnum: "2000 Tom to 4 p.m. Kellogg Exhibit," 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 


mat for the debates has not been dntcrmined. Ifthr debalf• is set up in the format of a town-hall style forum. there may be morn available tichts than there would be f'or a panel format, because of' tlrn seating arrangnmcnt. The ticknts am con­trollPd by tlw Commission and first must lw used to lllllPt the d11mands of' local and national rrnws media. Television <iquipment will also take up much or the space in the FiPld Ilouse. 
"We just won't know," said Steve Givens. assistant to Lim chancclior. "lt's all in llrn hands of the Commission." 
Stud<ints who rnceivc ticknts to the debatns will most liknly bo deter­mined based on a lott11ry. Students may be able to sign up for tlw lot­tery closer to thn timn of tlrn debate. 
~--------------------------------------------, 
Tuesday, September 5, 2000 The Observer . NEWS page 3 
Grads shoot for the stars with NASA 
By MARIBEL MOREY 
News Writer 
II<' gnm up watching shuttle launrlrns on trlcvision in the l 960s. When lw was 12. Michael Good drovc with his family to Capp CanaVPral to watch tlrn spar.P shuttks in pNson. But that wasjusl tlw beginning. 
"I fo(,1 likP I'm living a drram." suid Goud. "Prntty much ever since II attendPdl Notre Dame I want.Pd to go up in span'. When l picknd my ,wrospace m11jor my sophomore year. it was the year the first shuttk \VPnt up in F)81." 
NotrP Danw graduntes U.S. Air ForcP Maj. Michael Good and U.~. Air Fon-P l.l. Col. Knvin Ford. who was unavailable for commnnt. an• m11inbers of' NASA's astronaut class of 2000. Bef'or1• arriving at NASA's .Johnson Spa<'.C Center in llouston last W<H-ik. Good .vas at Eglin Air Forcr Base. Fla .. as an F-15 weaµ11ns tP.sf of'ficer. Ford was sf'rving as dirnrtor f'or plans and programs al the U.S. Air Poree Test Pilot School at Edwards Air Fore!' Base, Calif. 
/\t NotrP Dame, Good, class of 1984. and Ford. class of 1982, both majored in aerospace and nrnd1anical engineering. 
"Good is doing something that 
he's alwavs wanted to do. lle's 
one of th~ elite pPople in this 
fiflid," said Thomas Mue!IP.r, pro­
fessor of aerospace and merhani­
ral <'ngi1wcring. 
Hobert Nelson, professor of 
aerospace and mechanical cngi­Michael Good and his family nf'cring, agrred with Mueller. recontly purchased a house in 
"Them were and are very go()d Houston. He and his wife, Joan, students hem. Thev were both have 14 and 10-year-old boys, V<'ry personabl~ yom;g mPn. but I and a 2-y<'ar-old girl. knew them only as a faculty "Joan is very happy and very member would know tlrnm," he excitnd. but the kids are just 
said.  warming  up  to  
For both studonts  "I feel like I am living a  the idea." he said. Now in  
and profos­siona ls in the field of acrospacfl  dream. Pretty much ever since /I attended} Notre Dame I wanted to go "  llouston, Good faces the reality of his dream. \i\hcn asked  
f'ngineering. Ford and  .up m space.  about any fears, he declined hav­ 
Good are living out a dream.  Michael Good member of NASA's astronaut  ing any. "! have no fears. I'm used to it doing night  
"It hasn't  class of 2000 and  tests in the Air  
lwnn OIW  or  1984 Notre Dame graduate  Forco. We try to  

my goals, but yeah. I would like, to lhe an astronaut!." said Mueller . 
After yoars or dreaming. this is now a roa lity for Good. From over 3,000 applicants, 14 men and three ,vomen wern selected through a lengthy and highly competitive process that evaluat­mi their education, training. expPriencn and personally unique qualifications. Good was interviewed in October 1999 and was informed of the decision July 
20. 
This was the third time Good applied but the first time he got an interview. "It's such a long shot. I didn't want to look back and wonder. If I didn't make it, well, l tried," he said. 
takfl all the risk 
out of it. I'm just 
excitt'd." 
Good and Ford havo four to five years brfore they actually go up in space. For the first year, the group will have shuttle training and in the next year, they will each have ground jobs support­ing the sh uttlc program in Houston. From the third year on, each group member will be doing their job and waiting lo be assigned to his mission. Once assigned, Good and Ford will train with the other six to seven members for a maximum of a year. 
Despite his recent success, Good continues to dream. 
'Td like to help build the international space station," he said. 
Teacher agreements continue in Philly 
PHILADELPHIA 
Three days before class­es were scheduled to begin for 200,000 Philadelphia students. the city's teach­crs' union announced Monday it would urge teachers to approve their first strike since 1981 . 
Negotiators for the Philadelphia Federation of Teachers and th11 School District of Philadelphia spont Labor Day at the bar­gaining table, but union President Ted Kirsch said Monday that negotiations were not progressing. 
Kirsch said the union's leaders would rncommend teachers vote Tuesday morning to strike. 
Under state law, -the union must give the district 48 hours' notice of a walk­out. Classes are scheduled to begin on Thursday. 
"We have responded pos­itively and crratively at the table, willing to break ground on each and every issue to improve education in the district. But at the 11th hour, it has become apparent that the district has no intention of honor­ing their side of the bar­gain." union spokeswoman Barbara Goodman said Mondav. 
Mayor John Street, who hand-picked the school board now locked in nego­tiations, took to the podium at a Labor Day rally Monday and tried to reas­sure the teachers of the city's intentions. 
"There's nothing that we would like more than to get a contract. We have to havo a contract," he said. 
The 21,000-member union has so far rejected the district's proposals to extend the school day and school year, increase co­payments for health insur­ance, institute a pay scale bas11d on teacher perfor­mance rather than years of nxperi11nce and lovf'l of education, and give princi­pals more say in teacher job assignments. 
The union wants smaller classes. stronger early­childhood education, a new reading program and enhancP-d school security. Its teachers in 1997-1998 earned between $28,600 and $57,200 according to the union. 
District officials have said they will face an $80 mil­lion shortfall in their $1.6 billion budget even without granting the pay raises that the union says am needed to keep talented educators in the city. 
Gov. Tom Ridge has promised to work for addi­tion al state funding if teachers agree to a con­tract overhaul. 
Ridge also has said the state might take over the chronically under-perform­ing•district if teachers walk out. 


ST.lVIICU:AEL'S LAUNDRY ~ DR.Y CLEANING-. .. 
A TR.ADITI<>N CONTINUES... 
.. 
• DRY CLEANING & EXPRESS LAUNDRY FOR THOSE SPECIAL ITEMS 
• TAILORING SEAMSTRESS AT LAUNDRY DISTRIBUTION CENTER ON CAMPUS 
• BUNpLE SERVICE WEEKLV DORM PICK UP 
• SUMMER STORAGE NO NEED TO DRAG WINTER GARMENTS HOME 
TAKE THIS OPPORTU.NITY TO SIGN A FALL CONTRACT 
ONLY $80.00 TO RECEIVE $100.00 IN ANY OR ALL OF THESE FINE SERVICES! 
THAT'S s20,oo OF FREE SERVICES! 
HOWEVER. REMEMBER YOU DO NOT NEED TO BUY A CONTRACT TO USE OUR SERVICES -ALL TRANSACTIONS CAN BE CHARGED TO YOUR STUDENT ACCOUNT 
FEEL FREE TO STOP BY OR CALL THE LAUNDRY DISTRIBUTION CENTER LOCATED ON THE CORNER OF HOLY CROSS DRIVE & SORIN COURT M-F 8:00 A.M. -4:30 P.M. 631-7565 

page 4 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, September 5, 2000 
Ii  Appalachia Seminar  
11 I)  
THE SEMINAR  
• Service-learning through various sites 1.n Appalachia, October 15-21, 2000 • One credit Theology course • Involves orientation & follow-up classes • Past participants in Appalachia Serrrinar are encouraged to appply as Site Coordinators • Presents opportunity to work, laugh, & learn with others The Appalachia Senunar during Fall and Spring break presents a unique service­learning opportunity. Students travel to a variety of sites in Appalachia which focus on issues concerning rural health care, the environment, women, children, and housing construction. Through hands on work and person-to-person contacts, students experience the cultural richness of the area and begin to understand and analyze the social forces·that influence the Appalachian people.  
•  APPLICATIONS Available at the Center for Social Concerns Due date: Thursday, September 7, 2000 10:00 run $40 deposit with application (non-refundable if accepted)  
INFORMATION NIGHT Monday, September 4, 7:30-8:00 pm@ CSC  
FURTHER INFORMATION  
Steve Recupero, Student Task Force Co-Chairperson, 634-1217 Allison Reilly, Student Task Force Co-Chairperson, 243-1-842 CenteI" for Social Concerns, 631-5293  

Eldred 
continued from page I 
111c•11t and to romp!Pto tlrn Mastnr !'Ian. 
"Fundraising is always a v,,ry high priority... Eldrt!d said 
l·:ld rl'cl ·s vision of th(i CollngP will inrlud11 kPPµing it a str o 11 g Cat h oIic w n nw 11 's col!PgP, irHT(!asing nnrollm1•11l lo 1700 sl.ud1•11ls. improving div<'rsily, maintaining its imagP as ,1 supPrior undf'r­graduatl• libPral arts institu­tion, and kc1•ping it as rnsi­dP11Ual as possiblP. 
Prior to lwr accPptancn ol' t111• position of presidPnt at Sainl Mary's in 1997, Fldr(1d s1Hv1•d as vir1• J>rt)Sidnnt or thn collPgn and as tlui acadP­111 ir vicn JJrl'sidnnt al thn Coll1•gp or St. Catlwri1w·s in St. Paul, MN. hldrf'(I rncPivf'fl h1•r IL/\. l'rom \.1undnlt>in Collr•gp in Chicago, and lrnr 
M.A. and l'h.ll. rrom New 
York Uniwrsity. 

Sai17.t 1\11..ary's Under .rvt.ari lou Eldred: I 997 -prese-i---it 


April 11 : Eldred June 26: The Board of Aug. 21: Saint Mary's March 30: Eldred June 30: The Board of Trustees renews
becomes the first Trustees approves the joins the Michigan participates in Master Eldred's contract for an
lay female President Master Plan to expand Intercollegiate Athletic Plan groundbreaking of Saint Mary's. Saint Mary's campus. Association, its first ceremonies. 
additional five years. 
membership in an ~athletic conference.
\ ·--_J 
/ 
1997 1998 1999 2000 
Feb. 27: Eldred denies 
------~ 
Aug. 21: Saint Mary's Sept. 2: Eldred names ~­
chartered club status to falls to No. 2 in the U.S. Lynn Kachmarik April 3: Saint Mary's Joins Sept. 5: Saint Mary's
The Alliance. a student News &World Report athletic director, the Worker's Rights Consortium. regains the top position 
organization supporting rankings after five making Saint Mary's a group dedicated to improving in U.S. News & World
bisexual, lesbian and years at No. 1 . sports a top priority conditions in apparel! factories. Reports rankings. 
questioning students. for the College. 

American Heart ~ 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Police ransack student group; 
PoliCt' raided the headquarters of a Serbian stud!'llt group Monday known for its opposi­tion to l'resiclent Slobodan Milosevic, ran­sacking drnwPrs. confiscating campaign rnat<>rial and barring students from leaving during thP raid. SomP I :i studPnts werr~ insidP at tht: time. said Igor Djapic. an Otpor artivist present at the raid. "They demanded our ID cards. ransacked all our drawers and hrokn into tlw locked cupboards, confiscating virtually owry scrap of campaign material llwy could lind." Djapic said Police carried away tlwir rnmputers, as well as posters and Ila.gs with LlH' group's clenched-fist rPsis­tancn syrnhol, Djapic said. 
Elephant kills American tourist A 
wild elephant killed one American tourist and injured another during a wildlife tour in rf'motr. northwestern Namibia, officials said ti.londay. Dean llall was killed instantly and Dr. ,\. Said was hurt wlrnn a rare desert ele­phant charged a group or tourists trying to photograph it in thr, IIuab River Valley on Saturday. Prnliminary reports indicated the tourists had ldt their vehicle and walked bctw<'nn two groups ol' eli,phants from the sanw lrnrd. said Ben Beytel, an official with thP \1inistry of Environment and Tourism. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Judge doubts guilt of alledged 
spy: The judge who tried to release fired nuclnar scientist Wen Ho Lee from jail on $1 million bail said the government failed to prPsnnt convincing arguments for keeping him behind bars. Wen llo Lee was to have bnen relr.ased Friday from the Santa Fe County jail. where he has been kept since Dec,~mber in solitary confinement. But an appeals court halted his release at the last minute whilr. it considered an appeal from the government. U.S. District Judge James Parker. in an unsealed opinion released late Friday, outlined his reasons for wanting Lee released. saying he was no longer convinced that Lrn1 had downloaded some of the coun­try's most sensitive nuclear secrets. 
Iranian protesters hurl paint: Four Iranians were arrested over the weekend for throwing ycllow paint in separate incidents near the United Nations, where 150 world leaders are gatlrnring this week for the U.N. Millennium Summit. One incident involved 1hn prnsident of Iran, police said Monday. It wasn't dear if the incidents were related. but a spokesman for the National Council of HPsistance of Iran -which bills itself as lran's parliamenL-in-exile -said yellow is "tlrn color of dismay, [and I the color of disap­proval." said /\lireza .Jarnrzadeh. 

[)(J\Y,/ 
Srtr~ck arkets
ic1 ed 


ATION 
Tuesday, September 5, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
LEBANON 

Associated Press 
BEIRUT 
When Rafik Hariri resigned as prime m1ms­ter just two years ago, the Lebanese people were sick or the construction tycoon they accused of spending the country into debt and economic hard times. Now. they want him back. 
Official results released \1onday showed a land­slide victory for Hariri in Sunday's nationwide par­liamentary elections, mak­ing him the top prospect for prime minister -an appointment requiring a Syrian endorsement Hariri likely would get. llariri has said it is too early to comment on whether he will seek the post. 
Hariri-backed candi­dates also won over­whelmingly, ousting Prime Minister Salim Hoss and three members of his Cabinet from parliament and bolstering Hariri's chances to regain the pre­miership. And in south Lebanon, the results indi­cated that residents rewarded Hezbollah and Am al for their guerrilla war against nearly two decades of Israeli occupa­tion that ended in May. 
During his tenure, Hoss failed to deliver on pledges to deal with Lebanon's recession. That made Hariri -whose wealth, status and charis­ma make him a powerful force in Lebanon even without political office ­look more appealing than when he resigned in 1998 following a power struggle with President Emile Lahoud. 
"He is energetic, a con­struction magnate with powerful contacts abroad," said Violette Balaa, an economic ana­lyst with the leading An­Nahar newspaper. 
Voters had hoped Hoss would put a stop to the "spending and money squandering" under Hariri, Balaa said. 
"That did not happen," 
she said. "Many trust that Hariri learned from his mistakes and would restore investors' confi­dence." 
Syria, the ultimate guide of Lebanese politics and policies, essentially approves any premier in neighboring Lebanon. But that shouldn't provide any problems for Hariri, a friend of Syrian President Bashar Assad with profes­sional ties involving vast economic investments in Syria. 
Declaring his desire for the premiership could set up a clash with President Lahoud. who must name the prime minister after polling legislators. 
Native Americans seek reparations 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Federnl officials admit that over the last 113 years the government mishandled $500 million in trust acconnts for American Indians. 
But they say U.S. District Judge Hoyce Lamberth overstepped his authority witl1 rulings ordering a full accounting of the money and appointing himself overseer of reform pfforts. He also has held two Cabinet secretaries in contempt. 
The government is appealing Lamberth's December ruling in a 4­
year-old lawsuit brought by Indians, who contend they are due more than $10 billion because of the mismanagement. Arguments are scheduled for today before a three-judge federal appellate court panel. 
Lawyers for the more than 
300.000 trust account holders con­tend the appeal shows the federal government -particularly Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt -is more interested in blocking attempts to get the money than righting a wrong. 
"In the outside world, if you screw up with people's money, you end up in jail," said Elouise Cobell, a Blackfeet Indian who is the lead plaintiff. "That's the problem hem, that the Department of the Intr.rior has never had to pay for what they've done to screw up people's lives on Indian reservations." 
The trust accounts came from an 1887 fed!'ral law that divided some reservation land into smaller plots for individual Indians. The federal government holds that land in trust for the Indians -meaning it cannot be taxed or sold and the govern­ment must approve any leases. 
page 6 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, September 5, 2000 
-----======--==-==================================================================================================== 
FRANCE 
Concorde investigation focuses on stray piece of 01etal 
aircral't are 1101 known, he inch widn. One side was paint­known whether them might be The find conws af'tPr a 
Associatl'd Prc~s 
ad<krl. ed with a greenish epoxy and any legal implications for detailed search l'or the part's FrPnch Transport Minister tlw other eovl'rnd with a rnd­Continental. The airline not.(1(1 origin by BEA invostigators,
P/\HIS 
Joan-Claude Gayssot has said dish putty. that "it has not lrnnn dotnr­who nxamirrnd all pianos that
A stray lt>nglh of 11H1tal which 
tlrn 11la1w will not he c:crLified BEA investigators inspf'cted mined definitively" that UH! had usml tlrn runway alrnad ofgaslwd a tin• of a sup1~rsonic 
as airworthy until investigators the aircraft Saturday in missing part on ilc, aircraft was Urn Com:ord11.
ConcordP. hiading toll t'uPI tank 
can unlock the "catastrophic I louston, whero tlw pieco Shn said tlrn plann in qw)st.ion
fir<\ and dooming tlw flight. 
c-hain of' Pvnnts" that led to lhfl Contirwntal is found on 
took ol'f about four minut1's
probably canw from a 
crash. based, officials "There are many uncer­the run­bcf'or<! t!w Concordn flight.
Contirwntal t\irli1ws plane• that Invnstigators wcrn convinc,id said, accompa­ta;nties and May would way. BEA "Therl' is a gap I.hat has bnon
took off on tlw sanw runway 
early on that ttrn metal part nied by officials spokos­
four minuws i•arlic•r, l;rnnch seem to be the earliest lillnd in thn scenario." slw said, 
dnstroyed a left forwan.l tire, f' r O Ill w om an
invPstigators announn•d adding. howPver, that tlw dis­
S(!!Hling hugf' chunks ol' high Continnntal. the possible date [for the 11 ,i I e n o
Monday. covery does not advanr.1'. tlw 
vPlocily rubber toward tlw l'uel National Concorde to he Bastianelli
Thn discow\ry aftf'r a doggnd corn isstw -how to prnvf'nl
tanks in the Concord,~ ·s c!elta­Transportation said that it
Sl'arch app('ars to nncl onn mys­airborne again/." this kind of accidnnL 
s ha1wd wings, causing a fupl Safety Board was "prob­
tnry in tlw invPstigation of' tlrn It was thn first accident by
lnak and a hugo fire. and thP U.S. ably" thn
Julv 2:i accident that killc>d all tlrn supersonic C:oncordn sincn 
Tim !light. filled with GNman Federal Pierre-Henri Gourgeon same part.
I()£) p1•11p!c aboard the supnr­it cnternd comnu1rciar sPrvice
tourists, crashed into a small Aviation Air France Chief A parallel
!:Wll ic plan<' and four on ttw 24 years ago. Th11 only two
hoti,I. loss than two minutes Administration. judicial
ground. existing C:oncordo l'lods -in
afkr takeoff. A Con tincntal investiga­
M11a11whilP, Air France Chief' France and Britain -w,ini
A Continental DC10 had a statement said the officials tion by rrench authoritins is
1•:xl\cllliw Of'tkPr Pinrre-lfonri 
both officially groundPd in
missing part. "which appeared "dptermined that a piece of a undnrway to dntcrmine evcmtu­
Courgi•on raisPd tlw possibility August until f'urtlwr noticn. 
to be identical to the mntal metal wear strip, similar in al responsibility for the crash,
that tlw ConcordP could b1i air­
Tho Concorde. which flies
piece found on tho runway" at shape to the piece of nrn-tal but officials wore not immedi­
lJonw again by May 200 I. ft 
across the Atlantic at twicP the
Charil's de Gaul!,\ airport, said found on the runway in Paris, ately availablfi for comment.
was thl' lirst timn any date has 
spnnd of sound, had been the
IJ1rnn givon si11c:11 Frauen and a statement issued by France's was missing from the space The discovPry would clc1ar a 
most elite l'orm of' ('.OlllmPrcial
Britain oflkially grounded thnir Accident and Inquiry Office, or between the ran reverser and doubt cast on the state of run­
transatlantic air travn!.
BEA. the core door on tlw right-wing way 26, which had not boon
fleets in August. 
Gourgnon, thn Air Francn
"Thnrn are many uncertain­Tim BEA·s preliminary nipDrt engine of the Contilrnntal fully deaned !'or some 12 hours olTicial. said it was adding an
tiiis and May would snc•m to hfl on the accidfmt. made public DCJO." bcforn the ConcordP-took off. A 
early morning Paris-New YorkLlw narli,ist possibln dale," he Thursday on the Internet, Tho BEA statement described cleaning duii lo take place at 3 
flight to its sclrndulc-i to compon­told r1iportnrs. "1•:xpnrts havnn 't shownd a picture of a bent tho part in question as part of a p.m. -less than two hours 
satn l'or tho cancnlnd Concorde
yet mad,1 tlwir rncomnrnnda­mntal strip, with rivet holes, hood on a thrust rnverser. before the Concorde !'light ­flights.
tions," so costs lo modify the nearly 17 inches long and an lt was not immediately was canceled for a firn drill. 
Please recycle The Observer. 

•
The answer 1s the people of Deloitte & Touche 
Deloitte 
iwww. us. deloitte. com!
&Touche 
@2000 Deloitte & Touche LLP. Deloitte & Touche refers to Deloitte &. Touche LLP, and related entities . 
. Delo~. & Touche is an aquel opportunity firm. We recruit, employ, train, compensate, and promote without regard to race, religion, creed, color, national ongm, ege, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, disability, veteran status or any other basis protected by applicable federal, state or local law. 
Tuesday, September 5, 2000 The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 page 7 
Candidates campaign, discuss debate appearances 

better steward of the economy ers with a six-state Labor Day debates," the vice president end the Clinton-Gore era,
,\ssociale<l Press 
and work harder for weekend tour. The two cam­said on NBC's "Today." Cherney said to loud cheers. Americans. paigned together in Lieberman told reporters, "I Bush and Cheney walked
NAl'EH\'ILLE, Ill. 
"Wo'vc got a lot at stake, our Pennsylvania, Michigan and think Governor Bush is making about a mile and a half in the
Opening his fall campaign 
economy in particular." Gore Florida, then Gore hit the trial an end run around the rules of parade, with Bush moving
with a wenklong tour, George 
said in Pittsburgh. "Working on his own in Kentuckv while the debate commission." from side to side, pumping
W. Bush taunted rival Al Gorn 
people hav<• done better and Lieberman made solo stops in Gore has h a n d s 
on Monday for rejecting his 
there arc Ohio and Illinois. accepted the w i t h
offer of 
morn jobs." Bush and running mate Dick invitation from "It's become a tradition those lin­As for Cheney together opened a the Commission to get all the networks ing the Bush's campaign push through six on Presidential route.
together and give all of
$1.:1 tril­Midwest battlegrounds: Illinois Debates to nego­Cheney lion tux-cut and Michigan on Monday with tiate further this the Ameriran people the shook far plan, Gorn Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, week over a right to see three 90-f e W C r told sup­Indiana ancl Ohio to follow debate schedule. h a n d s
minute, prime-time 
porters al later this week. B u s h than Bush t h P Tl.rn Republir.an presidr-mtial spokesman Scott debates." and most­
don't nrnan Bush 
Gore Louisville candidate kept up the pres­McClellan said ly walked
anything." 
M o l o r sure on Gore to agree to the commis-down the
Al Gore
Bush told a 
Speedway in Kentucky, ''I'd Bush's proposcd debate sched­sion's offer to middle of'
Labor l>ay rally. Democratic presidential
velo that in a minute.'' ule as the Gore campaign held ncgoliate fur­the street
Gorn, coming off a 27-hour 
c;ore, thf\ Democratic presi­open the possibility for nf'got.i­ther would not candidate as Bush
campaign sprint through sev­
dential candidate, and his run­ations over the three prime­change Bush's darted
Pral statns. tried to keep the 
ning mate Joseph Lieberman time matchups. intention to 
about.
l'orus on his pitch Lo working 
appcal('{I lo working class vot-"Just yesterday, ·we had an accept only one of its venues Although the crowd was
families that Im would hn the 
interesting example of -an Oct. 17 debate at overwhelmingly supportive, \ 
Washington doublespeak." Washington University in St. some protesters waved signsBush told a rally in this hrrnvi­Louis. 
ridiculing 1.he GOP ticket. 'Tm ly Hepublican Chicago suburb Ou thfl trail, a Gore­
voting for Bush because not 
before he and Cheney walked Lieberman 27-hour campaign 
enough of my tax dollars sup­
Faber Consulting is 
ln a parade. sprint took 
port corporate welfare," said 
"My oppo­t11e candi­
one sign. Anothc1· said: "Vote
seeking the brightest "My opponent said he
nent said he dates to 
Rush because gay people have 
would debate would debate me any greet labor­too many rights."
minds me · in
any ers
place, anytime, After the parade, Bush 
place, any·­Philadelphia;
...to help transform our clients'.data assets into attended Michigan's annual
anywhere. I said fine,
ti me, any­Flint, Mich .. 
peach festival in Romeo, Mich.
valuable Business Intelligence. 
where," Bush why don't we just show and Tampa, 
-known for its high propor­
continued. "J Fla. Gore
up ... and discuss tion of voters who swing back 
said fine. t h e n
Business Intelligence will separate the winners and forth between the two
our differences."
why don't we marched in a 
parties.
from the losers in the coming decade.That's why 
· just show up Pittsburgh 
Cheney rode a Chicago ele­Faber is looking for self-motivated,intelligent ... and dis­George W. Bush parade and vated train to a Polish food cuss our dif­rallied at the
Republican presidential fair, where he danced the
people with acomputer studies background to 
ferences." speedway in 
polka with a Polish beauty
candidate
contribute to our explosive growth and become Two of the Louisville, 
queen and served up hot cab­
debates Bush K y
our next generation of consultants. bage rolls with tomato sauce
accepted Lieberman 
from behind a steam table.
would be 60-sandwiched a 
Cheney told the crowd that 
We offer achallenging work environment with minute appearances, one Sept. Toledo (Ohio) Mud Hens base­
one of his proudest moments
12 on a special prime-time ball game between visits to
exc:eptional opportunities for training and career was meeting Solidarity leader
edition of NBC's "Meet the union members in Detroit and 
Lech Walesa, saying he "lit a
advancement. And every "Faberite" receives an Press" and Oct. 3 from Los Peoria, Ill. 
spark in Poland that lit 1 a
Angeles on CNN's "Larry King · Gore planned an economic
equity stake in our business. prairie fire of freedom." He
Live." speech Wednesday in 
ended his remarks with a
The Gore campaign wants Cleveland. 
hearty "Sto Lat!" -a Polish
Use Go !RISH to sign up immediately for an three 90-minute debates as Bush and Cheney endured a 
congratulatory expression that
recommended by a bipartisan light rain on their parade in
interview --the schedule fills quickly. We're means "May you live 100
commission. saying those will Illinois. 
years."
interviewing Monday,October 2nd at the Career reach the widest audience. "I can't think of a better 
The two were reuniting
Center. Or attend our information session on Gore said Bush must agree place to start the fall cam­
Tuesday in Allentown, Pa., to 
to the commission debates paign," Bush told a crowd of
Sunday,October lst from 7-8 p.m.in Foster, announce their plan to provide
before any others. hundreds at a pre-parade 
seniors with a prescription
Room 306 at the Lafortune Student Center. "It's become a tradition to rally. "We're in for a tough 
drug benefit under Medicare.
get all the networks together battle. This is going to be a
Refreshments will be served. 
and give all of the American close race." people the right to see three "ln 64 days, we're going to We are an Equal Opportunity Employer 90-minute, prime-time 
No surcharge ATMs on campus...pass it on. 

19033 Douglas Ro.ad Notre Dame, IN 46556 
rl!.. NOTRE DAME 
~·FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
For People. Not for Profit. 800/522-661 l J~I Independent of the University www.ndfcu.org 
LikeJiving here? 
Keep the Earth clear. 
Recycle. 

page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, Scprcmbcr 5, 2000 
PAKISTAN 
Government vows to help women 
ISLAMABAD 
Pakistan's military-lNI gov­1•rnm1·nt h11s p!Pdgcd 111 scrap clisniminntory laws againsl w om " n . c o m ba t vioIP111· ,, against tlwm and promote 1'1•111all' lit1•racv, hut hittin~ tlwsP targnts n•i'nains an uphill task in lhis poor South Asian 
nnti1m. 
J\ rww national <·ornmission has starlNI work this wcPk to l'IHI gi-rnlnr dis1-rimin11lion and p r 11 L1• c 1 \.\" o m e 11 •s rig hts , SlrnhP1·n S,1nlar, tlw co111mis­si1111 ·s rhil'I'. said from thl' northPrn borc!Pr city of" P,•slrnwar. thn capit.il of I' a k iSI a 11 . S ('. 1111 Sf' I' VIll iVI' \lorthwnstPrll FrontiPr l'rovinc<'. 
ll<'Vil'wing lnws that an• par­tintlarlv harsh toward womPn c111d i111.pl1•m1•11ti11g rpform will n•quin• a 101 ol' hard work und politirnl will. slw said in an inlPrvil'I\ 011 Sunday. 
JI01\'f'\'Pr. IIH· 111'1·\ govPrn­lllt'lll lws h1·c-11 Pmpow1'r!'cl by l'akistan's Suprt>llli' Coun to an11·11<! tlw <'.ot1sli1 ution and Pnl'orcP nPw laws -without having to S!'run• llH' approval of a parlia11wnt. ThP parlia­
n11•11t has IH•Pn suspr.ndPd sincP last Ortohnr. wlwn thP militarv sr.izPd powr.r in a bloodlPss !'oup. Tlw commis­sion inrludPs s1•11ior gov<!rn­nwnt offirials, rights activists and sorial worknrs. 
01w of' tlw top it11ms on tlw commission's agi'ncia is to curb orthorlox Taliban, who bar so-callr.d honor killings of' wo11Hrn from work and f'duca­womnn by thnir rc1lativi>s. In a linn and force thnm to wnar country wh1!rl' C('nturit~s-old VPils. trilrnl ·and fouda.l traditions Snvnral Islamic groups. espe­hold sway -nspncially in 1'.ial ly in Pakistan's tribal rural arnas -this will not b!' rngioi1. advocatn a Taliban-likn simµl11. svst(•m. 
"It's a most dishonorablP act. · 1-'oqia Sadiq Khan, a human It's a murclnr and nobody rights actiYist. said tho military would lw g n v B r n • al!owPd lo mPnt's tonn g<'l away "Giving lip serl'ice to r <' g a r d i11 g with it." said WOlll<'n's
u•omen ·s rauses is not 
Sardar. who issuns is pos­
enough. The issue is
taughl law al iti Vt\ com-. I' 1• shaw a r whether the gouernment pared to tho U ll i V l' r s i Ly tcanls to lake prPvious gov-bdor,• join­1• r nm e 11 t.
practical steps."
ing tlw mili­"But this tary govPrn­rPginw has a mPnt. Foqia Sadiq Khan n1cord o I' "Unlik«~ llw bowing to
human rights activist 
past g11ver11­
llll'11 Ls. WI' will takP a f'irm stanrl against tlw honor killings," lw said. 
Mori' than 1,000 womPn WPrP kill(•d in Pakistan last yt'ar. nil!wr 1'1>1· marrying nwn a~ainst tlw will of their fami­liPs or l'nr f1imsv masons likP talking lo a nrnri othPr than a rPlatiw. human rights groups sav. 
'!'hcsP killings am bas1•d on a "suspicion or immornliLy on tlw part ol' tlw victim." indepPn­dPnt lluman High ts Commission or Pakistan says. 
Most such killings occurred in thP I\Jorthwestern province. which borders ;\('ghanistan. Afghanistan is ruled by the 
tlw prPSSUl'P ol' rcligious groups." slw 
said, 
Earlier this year. tlw military withdrow a plan to try to n1rh ab usP s of' I Im r on tro v n rsia I blasphemy law, whirh c,trriPs th,, dt~ath pnnalty for insulting Islam or its proplrnt, Moh am m Pd . SincP t lwn, aid workers say rPligious groups have been emboldt>nPd and stnppPd up threats against 1w11ple working for wonwn and minorities' rights. 
"Giving  lip  snrvice  to  
\\.'omen's  causes  is  not  
enough."  Khan  said.  "The  

issue is whether tlw govern­ment wants to take practical steps." 
RUSSIA 
Bombs explode in two marketplaces 
Associatt'd Press 
HYAZAN 
Bomb attacks blanu•d on 
criminal turf baltlns hit two 
Hussian citins Monday, killing 
at loast thren pno,;ln in a 
nation jittnry af'tt\r a string of 
deadly, unsolw\d bhLsts. 
l'olicn said there was no apparent link bdwccn tlrn two explosions Monday, in an out­door markl'l in Llw industrial city ol' Byazan and an cliln boutiqun in St. 1'1~tcrsburg, And thPrP was no suggnstion of' a terrorist. act -instcad. po!icn blanwd tlwm on orga­nizBd crimP, whiC'h has ber.onw cntrnnclll'd through­out Hussia. 
Tho l'irst bomb rippPd through a nwat stall in thP morning in llyazan. 120 milns south ol' Mos(·ow. damaging othnr mnal and VPgPtablP stands und shaucring glass in rwarbv apartmnnt buildings. Casi's ·or burst kl'tchup boltl<•s and ov1'rtllrnNJ produce scalPs litternd th!' market squarP aftnr tlw blast. 
Two fomalP vendors w1•r1• killnd immediatoly, and an unidentif'ind man diPd of" injuries later in thc hospital. p,mergtrncy o!Ticials said. Elcvnn people were injurPd. NTV tdnvision rnportcd. 
"I was buying somnthing. standing about fivn mr.ters 
away, I turiwcl around and tlwr;i was an explosion." a dawd-looking man told statP­rnnl.rol!Pd OBT t1'1Pvision. OBT said tlw Pxplosion was tlrn nquivalnnt ol' :mo grams of' TNT. 
Tim bomb was in a plastil' bag placPd on tlw corrugatnd nwtal roof" or Lim 1111•at stall, wiln11ss<'S said. Thi' bomb nxplodt\d vvlwn a salnswom,u1 triPd to movP it. NTV quotPd a willwss as saying. 
lntPrior MinistPr Vladimir Bushailo said a gang of i\l'ghan war vPtnrans and a riv;II group f'rom Bussi11 's C11urns11s rPgion W<'rt• comp!'ling to control a protP<'tion rarkt•t in tlw 111a1·­kf'l. f\lost Hussian outdoor markf'ls pay prot1'r.tion to criminal gangs, 1111(1 bombings and ,·ontral'.t killings an• com­mon. 
l'olicc• dPtainl'd lhP 1wopl1· f'or C(llf'Stioni11g shortly af'tPr tlw blast. said lntPrior Ministry spokPsman YPvg,·ny llyabtsf'\'. 
:\nolhPr small PXplosion dPstrovPd llw windows of a clothing boutiqw· in tlw north­ern city of St. l'Ptnrsburg, hut nobody was hurl. ;\ policP spokf'sman in St. l'Ptf'rsburg also blanwd thP inrid1rnt 011 organizml crinw. 
Hushailo dismissnd llw possi­bility that thn blasts wnrn tnr­rorist attacks carriPd out by Clwdwn rnlwls. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAIVIE INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAJVIS 201 SECURITY BUILDING Notre Daune, Indiana 46556 
T: Fax:  631-5882 631-5711  
. f--·_  ~~ ~:­ n  .  

RO~E 
INFORJVIATION ~EETING 
Professor l\1.ichael Francis, Assistant Provost c·ampus International Development 
Wednesclay September 6, 2000 
4:45 PM 129 DeBartolo 
Tuesday, September 5, 2000 
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
SPAIN 
Aznar predicts long road to peace 
Associated Press 
MADRID 
Hnsponding to an upsurge in s11paratist violence, Spain's primn minister on Monday vowed hn would grant no leeway for tho gunmen and predicted a long battle for peacP in the Basque region. 
"!L's going to be a long mad," l'rinrn Minist11r Jose Maria Aznar said in an intPrview with The Associated Prnss. "W11'rn faced with tnrrorism. pure and simple. J\nd in tlrn European Union and modnrn dPmocracies of this Cflll­Lury lh11rn ran be no room for t<:rror." 
/\znar spoke upon rnturning to his \1ondoa Palace residence in Madrid alkr nrarlv a month in his sPasidP rPsidrn"i:e in eastern Spain -a holiday interrupted by ru,wrals for live of' the night 1woplP killnd this summPr in cur bombs and shootings blamml on tlw armnd Basque soparatist group FT/\. 
Tlw most rp1·1mt victim was Manuel lndiano. a small Lown rou,wilor for /\znar's Popular Party gumwd down WPd1wsday in his r·andy shop. The d1•ath brought to IO the number of' Popular Party councilors whos<~ dPn ths an• blamrd on ET/\. 
"l'vP had lwtti>r Augusts,'' Im said bittPrly. "I lwpn to have hPt­(Pr nnPs in tlw l"uturn." 
lndiano's dnath was tlw 12th 
si111·p ET/\ PndPd a 14-month 
11nilatpra) cease-fire in 
DPcPmlwr and unlPashed onP of 
its most brutal o(fonsivPs ev,\r in what many see as a desperate attempt to force the gov11rnment into negotiations. 
ETA, a Basque-language acronym for Basque Homeland and Freedom, demands the right 
to self determi­nation for Spain's three Basque provinces in tho 
north.  It  envi­ 
sions  an  inde­ 
pendent  state  

that would also incorporate Basque regions in southwestern Francr,. 
ETA was par­ticularly activr, toward the end of the dictator­ship of Gen. 
ISRAEL 
Barak expects treaty deadline delay
port terrorism in the Basque Country," Aznar said. 
During the cease-fire, ETA's lon~est in its 32-year-campaign, a smgle round of negotiations failed to get either side to budge. 
"We'refaced with terrorism, pure and simple. And in the European Union and modern democracies of this century there can be no room for terror.,, 
Jose Maria Aznar Spanish Prime Minister 
Aznar, a survivor of an ETA car bomb in 1995, s a i d prospects for peace, or even negotia­tions, in the near future are slim. 
"I will n e v r, r accept Spanish 
Francisco Franco and the first fow years of Spain's transition to d1m10cracy following his doath in 1975. The violence subsided slightly und<:r the socialist gov­ernment that endnd in 1996 with Aznar's first clnction as prime minister. 
llistorically, the 13asques have maintained a separate cultural identity and language. For some, ETA's light i:; a lcgiti mate battle for sovnrnignty. But the majority of Spaniards oppose their goals, pointing out that under Spain's clomocratic constitution. the Basques enjoy morn autonomy than any other region in Europe. 
"Terrorism is just another expression of tyranny ... They am Nazis thosP pPople who sup-democracy or liberties in Spain being sacrificed on the altar of some negotiations that might provA justilication for the terror­ists," he said. 
The violence brought an end to any political honeymoon for Aznar after winning a sncond tprm in office with a landslide virtory in the March elections. At the time ho was hailed at home and abroad as representing a nnw and dynamic Spain whose centrist policies were fueling a thriving oconomy. 
Aznar rul(~s out any fresh ini­tiatives and insists the govern­ment will persist in maintaining law and order. boosting police efficiency and seeking greater international cooperation. 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 
Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak warned Monday that he will only give a Mideast peace treaty a few woeks to be con­cluded, raising the possi­bility of failure ahead of crucial talks with Pr<'sidcnt Clinton during this week's U.N. sum­mit. 
The formal deadline for a treaty, Sept. 13, is widely expected to be missed. The real target date for Barak is the end·of October when an increasingly hostile Israeli parliament reconvenes. Lawmakers are expected to try to topple him because of concessions he has already made to the Palestinians. With a treaty in hand, he could seize tho initiative and call early elPctions. 
Barak has said it is now up to the Palestinians to com­promise, and Israel's Foreign Ministry said Monday the prime minister is not planning to present 

new ideas to Presidnnt Clinton. 
The president was to hold separato talks Wednesday with Barak and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat as part of the summit. 
Shortly after arriving in New York for the summit Barak headed for U.N: headquarters to meet U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan. As he entered the building, a reporter noted that it was a historic time and a historic place for his­toric decisions, and asked what )1.e thought. 
"I do hope and I pray, but don't know." Barak replied. 
In their talks with Clinton. Barak and Arafat are expectod to respond to U.S. compromise proposals pre­sented to them last week by 
U.S. Mideast envoy Dennis Hoss. said a senior Palestinian official who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Both sides described tlH1 sessions with Clinton as a make-or-hrPak moment in thn tortuous peace process which began with a mutual recognition treaty in 1993. 
In a statement Monday, Barak said a crossroad has been reaclrnd in talks with the Palestinians. 

JOI~ the St-..=--der1t I=r1ter-=r1a.ti_c:,::.:1a.l B-..=--s1=r1ess Cc:>-._i_=r1c1l (S_I_B_C_) 
Come lea:r::r::t. abo"l.1t ho"'"7" yoLL ca.ri. be a p a..rt 0£ thi.s Iri.ter::r1a..ti.o::r1a..1 Ci.::rc-._::i_i.t 
Fi.:rst meeti.II.g 0£ the Fa.II 2000 
_Aca..demi.c -Yea.:r! ~e.-.? T""L1esda..y, September S th.­7pm '1V"here? The Jordan. A.uditoriu.n1, 
~en.doz.a College of Business 
_All 1VIa.je>rs 
Welce>m~! '
-
page I 0 The Observer . HEALTH NEWS Tuesday, September 5, 2000 
Lipoprotein increases risk of heart attack 
As<ociated Press 
DALI.AS 
Cardiac patinnL<; with high lrwnls ol' a littl1\-known form of "bad" cholesterol in th,iir blood ar,1 70 1wrccnt mol'I! likely to have a h1\1trt attack than thoso with lownr conc<'ntrations, according to a study rnlnasnd Monday. 
Tlw ohscurf' clmlestr.rol partid,! 
called lipoprot11in ­
is 1!sp1't·ially "The message herP is 
ease 01: sur­insidious physicians and vived a heart 
bm:ause it's dif• 
attack. The
cardiologists should ...
f'ir,ult for doc­avnru.ge age of tors to measurn know lhe lp(a) levels. the peoplernliably and in patients.·· involved in the 
because ib lev­study was 50, ds have little to Danesh said. do with tlrn Or. Angelo Scanu 
The number lrnttnr-known director of Lipid Clinic at of heart form of "bad" 
University of California attacks suf. 
cholesterol. railed l.DL 
The clcvatPd l.p(a) lev~ls also have littln to do with morn con­ventional hPart disease risk !'ac­tors such as smoking, high blood prnssurn and poor diet. IL also cannot be dirnrtly linked to high cholesterol. or the kind whose lev­els can bn alt(•rnd through diet or drugs, said lead researcher Dr. John Danesh. of Oxford Univ.~rsitv in England. · 
"This study suggests them is a clear association between l.p(a) and an incn\as,~d risk of heart dis­ease," said Danesh. who pointed out that more than a decade worth of research previously !'ailed to link Lp(a) to increased risk of' heart disease in the gener­al population. 
The Oxford findings were pub­1is hod in Monday's edition of Circulation, a journal of the American 1leart A,;sociation. 
llP.scarchers gathered data usr\d in thn study from 27 diffornnt studies tracking more than 5,200 people who had heart dis­
fored by indi­
viduals with thB highest Lp(a) concentrations was compared with the number of heart attacks among those with the lowest Lp(a) readings. During a decade of follow-up, the highest group had 70 percent more heart attacks than the low-level Lp(a) study subjects. 
"The message here is physicians and cardiologists should be aware and it would be useful to know the Lp(a) levels in patients." said Dr. Angolo Scanu. director of the Lipid Clinic at the University of California. 
Study: Parkinson's affects heart 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPIIIA 
In a study that could help change how Parkinson's dis­ease is diagnosed. researchers have discovered that the disease af'focts nerves in the heart as well as the brain. 
It has bnflll known for many years that the tn:mors and movement problems associated with Parkinson's rnsult from a loss of norve endings in part ol' the brain. 
Hosearchers at. the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and StrokP report in Tuesday's issue of the Annals of Internal Medir.inP that peo­plu with Parkinson's diseasB also have a decreased num­ber of nerve endings in the heart. 
That suggests that Parkinson's may effect the entire nervous system. 
"This may change the viewpoints about what Parkinson's disnase is," said the institute 's David Goldstein, author of' the study. "What these findings indicate is that Parkinson's disease is associated with a loss of nerves outside the brain and, in particular, in the heart." 
Goldstein said it appears that other organs' nerve systems arc not affected, but further research is needed. 
"If it turns out that the loss of these cells (happens only) in the heart, then the key question is, what it is about the nerves in the heart and the system in the brain that appears to make those the systems that arc destroyBd." 
The heart 
"What these findings
nerve dam­problem age differ­indicate is that w i t h entiates blood
Parkinson's disease is 
Parkinson's prossuro
associated with a loss of
from condi­control." tions with nerves outside the brain Wooten 
similar and, in particular, said. "It's 
symptoms, r-.1rnly a
in the heart. ..
such as problem multiple Parly and system 
David Goldstein C a 11 atrophy, bncornn a
author of study
according to the study. Goldstein said that may help doctors det.erminn whether a patient has Parkinson's or some other disease. 
However, Dr. Fred Wooten, chairman of' the department of neurology at the University of Virginia, said that while the study was intriguing, putting it into practice in diagnosis may be difficult because researchers used special­ized imaging equipment to see the nerves around the heart. 
"I don't see this becoming a widely used standard of diagnosis," Wooten said. "It's f\Xpensivn. The equip­ment necessary wouldn't be widely availablo. f'm skepti­cal that it will be useful." 
Wootnn said f'nw Parkinson's patients exhibit noticeable heart problems. 
"More of'ton than not, 
thorn's no 
m a j o r 
problnm 
later on, 
but only for some patients." 
The study also found that the breakdown of h,rnrt nerves was rnlatccl to the diseas,i itself. not to drugs taken to treat Parkinson·s. 
Some patients with Parkinson's have difficulty maintaining adnquatc blood pressure while standing up. Tim study concluded that such problems happnn as a result of the nerve damage, not the drug levodopa, which is givon to Parkinson's patients bncausn of' the loss of' cr,r­tain brain chemicals. 


Tuesday, September';, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Father of hydrogen bo01b defends University of California 
good. The connection with UC charged with espionage and scientist Manvendra Dubey. control, said Cal Tech histori­
AUGUST 26TH -SEPTEMBER 8TH • DROP FOR ABAS INTERVIEWS ON GO IRISH __ ,SEPTEMBER 6TH • PwC MIXER• 7PM-9PM • CCE AUDITORIUM · .SEPTEtv1BER 13TH • PwC MOCK INTERVIEWS• CAREER CENTER 
\ SEPTEMBER 13TH • 'INFO SESSION: PwC TODAY SHOW• 7PM • MORRIS INN• NOTRE DAME ROOM SEPTEMBER 16TH • PwC TAILGATE • NOTRE DAME VS. PURDUE SEPTEMBER 27TH • ABAS FULL TIME INTERVIEWS & SUMMER INTERNS GOING ABROAD INTERVIEWS 
Welcome Back. Graduation may be right around the corner, but it shouldn't mark the end of your education. Our Assurance and Business Advisory Services practice gives you major options when it comes to your career. Like ongoing learning. The challenge of new exciting projects. And the promise of change. All in an environment that fosters professional growth and development. And, if you decide you'd like to explore other areas within the organization, we'll support you. Any way you look at it, PricewaterhouseCoopers is the place to be. www.pwcglobal.com/abascareers 
~CEWA1fRHOU5f[CXJPERS I 
Join us. Together we can change the world.sM 
a 1000 Pri<ow•lerh<.>uset.:oopm !LP. ltic.watt'fflOCISt'Coop,,-, re(eu lo tht> U.S. f,rm cl l'ricew~LL I' a,•Iorher"""""""' oithe 1'vrlrlwi,J,, Priu,w.,te,hvr,,,Coopt'tJ "'!iJ'"'·''ion. JJrkt!w.U,~ooseC,.1t~" i'6prot.UI to lM1Jn ..~tii,matf~'t'k-rioo amt [-qual a,,r,o,,ooity Employt!f'.. 
Associated Press 
LIVERMORE, Calif. 
Physicist Edward Teller isn't sure whether the nuclear weapons labs he helped found have a spy problem. 
But the man known as the "Fatlrnr of' the II-Bomh" is sure that any problems aren't going to bn fixed by ousting thr University of California as manag1)r of the Los Alamos National Laboratory and Lawrl'nce Livr-rmore National l.aboratory. 
flp's remindnd or tlw crisis nf 194!) whnn scientists work­ing on the weapons program at Los Alamos, N.M., lrarned that secrnts ol' the atomic bomb had bnf\ll leaked to the SoviPts. 
"President Truman's reac­tion to this disrnvery was, in my npinion, precisely the right one -speed up our work," thP. 92-yP.ar-old scien­tist said. 
"Today, there is not even a whisper of speeding up our work," he said. Instead, lherc's been a "magnifying of the clarnagr, donn when proba­bly there was no damage or littlr. damagr.." 
"UC's management has been 
is valuable. It would be a grave mistake to interrupt it," he said in an interview. 
Through his decades-long career, Teller has exerted a profound influence on 
America's 
defense and energy poli­· ci es. In 1939, Teller was onr-of three scien­tists who nncouraged Albert Einstein to a I e r l Presidont rranklin D. Roosevelt that the power of 
nuclear fission -the splitting of an atom's nucleus -could be tappnd to create a devas­tating new weapon. 
Today's troubles in the weapons program began last year with allegations that nuclear secrets had leaked to China. Los Alamos scientist Wen Ho Lee was fired and later charged with mishan­dling classified information. However, Lee was not 
IN COLLEGE, YOU CAN ONLY MAJOR IN ONE OR TWO THINGS. 
NOT SO WITH US. 
'The criticism comes to a great extent from people who have quite a limited understanding of what really goes on in the labs in a scientific way." 
Edward Teller physicist 
he denies any wrongdoing. 
Next came budget and dead­line troublPs for a huge laser being built to simulate ther­monuclear explosions at Lawrence Livermore. 
Richardson, under pressure from members of Congress to rP.move UC from its manage­ment role, has ordered major changes in security. He's scheduled to get a report on how to do that this Tuesday, although no immediate announcement was expected. 
Some fefll public cflnsure has gone too far. Losing UC would be "a hor­rible thing," says Los Alamos 
And both Los Alamos a n d Livermore are being investigated for possible discrimina­tion against Asians, a con­cern high­lighted by the prosecution of Taiwanese­born Lee. 
Energy Secretary Bill 
"When UC manages you, you 
attract  a  certain  kind  of  
employee  You  attract the  
brains."  

That opinion is shared by Sidney Drell, a member of the presidflntial commission that wrote a scathing lab report tithid "Science at its Best, Security at its Worst." He thinks UC should be correct­ed, not ejected. 
"Unfortunatoly, there's been tremendous overreaction," he said. 
The curious pairing of class instruction and mass destruc­tion goes back to the 1930s when a team of physicists led by Ernest O. Lawrence worked at the Berkeley "Rad Lab" (Radiation Laboratory). Tn the early 1940s, Berkeley up-and-comer Glenn Seaborg helped discover a key to the· nuclear realm -plutonium. 
Soon, U.S. scientists racing to beat the Nazis to an atomic bomb had set up shop at Los Alamos. 
After the war, UC wanted out of the weapons business, but the new Atomic Energy Commission asked the univer­sity to stay on, hoping to keep the program under civilian an Peter Westwick. 
UC agreed, motivated by patriotism and possibly the fact that Lawrence had "quite a thriving operation going" at thr-Berkeley lab. 
Today, the Ernest 0. Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory, in the hills above the Br-rkeley campus, per­forms unclassified research. 
But an annex Lawrence helped start in the country town of Livermore, about 60 miles east of San Francisco, has grown in to a premier weapons lab. 
It includes the office where Teller, lab director emeritus, still works three days a week. 
The Hungarian immigrant is gray and frail, unable to see a board full of equations, but his intellect is nimble; he crisply dismisses those who criticize the labs he helpr,d build. 
"The criticism comes to a great extent from people who have quite a limited under­standing of what really goes on in the labs in a scientific way," he says. "They're not only ignorant, they are not aware of the fact that they're ignorant." 
-•!.ts im ,l§Jf:.Jifi ±1{.''fa\l;_..•.', .. uc::MK
Domi'. 
.:e'M: 1~}~ek! • 
Wrft :t",~e;;~ 
·%''fi(~!tJ":·t····~'5.3!"' 
~-~{:'-~:'--· .,.•:::'·-· :_::·?' ·.-:.:~ :,.,.. .',,.., '. ""-:!'.:~ 

p,1ge 12 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September, 05, 2000 

We invite Notre Dame students to join us 
Monday, September 11, 2000 
7:00 PM -9:00 PM Center for Continuing Education, Lower Level 
Merrill Lynch is an equal opportunity employer. 
ml.com/careers 
be bullish ~MerrlllLynch 
Tuesday, September 5, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 13 
HAITI 
Increase in power costs -wreaks havoc on Haiti's poor 
Associated Press 
PETlONVILLE 
For Ghislaine Leveque 
tlrnni's going to be less light, 
and for hPr children. no 
school. 
A 44-percirnt incrr,ase in gas 
and knroscne prices 
announced Friday has llaitians 
anticipating Hie damaging 
social and economic conse­
quences in a country that 
political diP.tatorship and 
instability has kept among the poornst on Earth. 
"This is the last straw. I can't make ends meet an:v more," said Leveque, 36, throwing uµ her hands in des­peration. 
She sells cups of rice, beans and cornmAal from open bas­kets on the unpaved roadside in Petionville, a l'ort-au­Prince suburb whPre broken down hovels rub up against mansions and the fancy shops sprouting up to serve the elite. 
where they attended school
"If kids can't walk to 
last year. A medium pepper­school, they'll just oni-and-mushroom pizza at bum around and turn the new Food Planet costs 
$6.90. But
into delinquents." 
f o r Leveque, Frantzy Baho new school enrollment
bus driver 
fees are too much. It is unlikely that Levcque's Costs have children will get to eat at any gone up of the new fast food restau­from $36 to 

rants in the same community $4.8, along-Preval side the 
~-----------------------------------------, fees for school supplies and uniforms. Bus fare has also risen. So on Monday, the beginning of the new school term, Lcveque's children stayed home, like many others across the country who cannot afford the higher costs. "We'll lose passengers, but that's not all. If kids can't walk to school, they'll just bum around and turn into delin­quents," said bus driver i Frantzy Baho, 41. · "Haiti is in a stranglehold," President Rem~ Preval said last month, when he announced his cash-strapped government was ending the bus subsidy. He spoke as Haiti's major donors -the United States, Canada and France -threat­
en to cut aid because of aJieged fraud during elections that gave Preval's predecessor and mentor, former President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, an overwhelming majority in Parliament. 
Aristide is expected to win presidential elections in November. Boycotting opposi­tion parties say such a win could set the Caribbean coun­try back on the road to dicta­torship, six years after the United States sent troops to dislodge the military from power. 
The price increases and end to subsidies comes as Haitians are at their most vulnerable, borrowing and scraping together money to try to buy their children the education that they believe is the only way to save them from pover­ty. Minimum wage has remained unchanged at $1.70 since 1991 while the gourde has slumped from 7.5 lo 21 to the dollar. 
Eighty percent of llaiti's 8 million people live in absol utc poverty, half the work forp,e is jobless or gets by with odd jobs and the vast majority live with constant hunger pangs. Figures are hard to come by, but the average income is esti­mated at $250 to $400 a year. 


Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 
Actors from the London Stage As You Like It 
by William Shakespeare 
Thursday, September 14 ............. 7:30 pm 
Friday, September 15 ................... 7:30 pm 
Saturday, September 16 ............. 7:30 pm 
Playing at Washington Hall Reserved Seats $16 • Seniors $14 • All Students $12 Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 
Chicago Brass Quintet 

Working hard night after night can mean junk food, and lots of it. New BALANCE GOLD; with its 40-30-30 ratio of carbs, protein and dietary fat, is a great-tasting way to help give your body sustained energy. Plus, it has 23 essential vitamins and minerals. Why not check out Balance.com to learn more. 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THF 
Tuesday, September 5, 2000 BSERVER 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Differing ideas of game day hospitality 

'i
~tt 
Meeting Southern standards 
I would just like to express a sinccre thank you for the hospitality displayed by your students, faculty and staff during the Notre Dame-Texas A&M foot­ball game last Saturday. Everyone from llrn shutt!P bus drivers to the fans in the stadium were politn and helpful. I have never been to a game whern tho Aggies were visitors where the home crowd actod in such a positive way towards tlrn visiting fans and Urn visiting team. Throughout the gamo I hoard compli­mfmts on A&M's players and coaches, compared to the insults I normally hoar when in an opposing sta­dium. 
I was truly blown away by how nice everyorrn was. The level of class exhibited by your team. fans and staff is something to be proud of. In my opinion this is the way college football is supposed to b1\. Two teams competing hard on tho field and fans in tlrn stands applauding their effort. I only hope that when your fans come to visit College Station next year, that we show you half of the hospitality you showed us. Good luck during the rest of the season and beat the heck out of Nebraska! 
Michael Taglienti 
Texas A&M University class of '98 September 3, 2000 
Disrespecting Texas A&Ms tradition 
I made the long trip to South Bend this wecknnd for the Texas A&M vs. Notrn Dame game. Like Nolrn Dame, Texas A&M is a tradi­tion-rich school and Aggie !'ans have a sincere appreciation for r.ol­lcge traditions. Everyone I talked with 1rnjoyed the opportunity to tour your lovely campus and we were looking forward to learning morn about Notre Dame tradii.ions. l was extrmndy disappointnd, however, to learn that rude and disrespectful treatment of oppo­nents' fans and visitors was one of the lnss-publicizPd but obviously most popular traditions at Notre Dame. 
The A&M College of Texas was an all-main military institution until tlw rnid-(i0s and it remains tile largest source of oflicers for the United Slates military outside of' the service academies. As stu­dents, we wern constantly remind­Pd of this tradition of service by our many campus landmarks com­nwmorating those who had fallen. For example, them are 55 11ags that encircle Kyle Field in honor of th<\ 55 Aggies who died in World . War l. Our Student Center is a liv­ing memorial to the Aggie war dead and everyone removes their hats upon entering the building. Nearby is a statue of General James Earl Rudder, who led the Hangers up Point du Hoc on D-Day, securing the right 11ank of Omaha Beach. These brave men fought to wipe the scourge of fascism and l litler's forces of evil off the European continent and in so doing, saved the free world. So when the Aggie Band, in their ¼'WI-era uniforms, formed in your endzone, I cannot explain the rage and disgust we felt at hearing the shouts of "Achtung" and "Sieg Heil" from the Notre Dame fans around us. 
You may laugh at our yells, think our songs are funny and talk all the smack you want about our football team. but to mock the Corps of Cadets with Nazi catcalls was simply inexcusable and. frankly, ignorant. Thousands of Aggie men and women who wore that uniform fought and hundreds died so that we can be free and the disrespect and ingratitude your fans showed their memory was dis­graceful. Shouting those hateful epithets at our band was a spit in the face to men like General Rudder, whose boys died in Normandy and men like General George Moore, dass of '08, whose men died at Bataan. Do you make those same remarks when you play Army or Navy? 
I hope the fans that made these remarks (and the dozens around who laughed and encouraged) do not represent the majority of those who have attended the University of Notre Dame. Sadly, for many of us who visited your campus, they are the ones who will be remem­bered. Aggie fans are well-known for their hospitality, and we look forward to hosting you next year in College Station. Perhaps then you will gain a greater appreciation why General George Pattern once said, "Give me an army of West Point graduates, and I'll win a bat­tle. Give me a handful of Texas Aggies, and I'll win a war." 
Kathy Clarke Texas A&M University class or '95 San Rafael, California Sepremher 3, 2000 
~--~-~··:-================================================================================================================ 
Building a sense of fellowship 
Notrn Dame is a community. It is a spm:ial pince where virtues like faith, hope and love guide our daily liv,~s. Since we haw~ taken office, one of our primary­goals has lrnen Lil build this stmsc of' f,,l!owship and frif'ndship among th!) students of Our Lady's Unvcrsity. This idea is what WP campaig1rnd on last Spring and sonwlhing which we have r11lent­fussly pursued. 
Unf'ortunatcly, s<>mclinrns linanrial rnnsi,kral.irms impl'de this unity. Many times, someone may f'ncl lnss than a full member or tlw Not.rn Damn family whon tlwy cannot afford to take part in 1tll that our Univnrsity has to offer. From section dinners to football tickl"ts, students have expenses that cannot always he met. As we all know, Notre Dame can be an expensive place to live. 
In order to foster a sense of family, wo offered to the students the Rector's Fund; or, as we phrased it during the campaign, "Money for members of the Notre Dame family who don't feel fully a part of the community." It is our pleasure to announce that last Tuesday night, the Financial Management Board took the [inal necessary step and thn Hector's Fund is now fully operational to rnent tlw needs of the students. We howi nnd pray that this fund 
will in someway bring uur com­
munity just a little closer together 
as we continue on our four-year journey. 
Brian P. O'Donoghue 
Srudenr Body Presidcnr 
Brooke E. Norton 
Smdi-nr Body Vice-Presidenr 
JayM. Smith 
Chief of Sraff 
Jim H. Focht 
Office of the President Vision Division Hrad September 4, 2000 
Do you have something to say? Write usl 
observer.viewpoint.1@nd.edu 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, September 5, 2000 
--------------... E--::-::::~=~~~=~:~~~~~~::.=:_-"""' •-_-_:_:-_-_-_:-_•_-:_-_-_-_-_-~:--_-:_-_-_-_-:::­
THE OBSERVER 
I' 0. Box q. Notcc Darue. IN 46h(, 024 Snutli \'linmg H,11\. Nmro Dame. !N 46~5(, 
E!liTOR IN CHIEF l\likc Cunnolly 
MANAGll'>G EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Norci:11 t;iJk-srie  Tim Lane  
A.~\f. MANAGING EDITOR  OrERATiONS MANAGI.R  
Chri.stinc Kralv  l:\rian Kessler  

Nrn·s EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VIEWl'OINT EDITOR: Lih Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARY'S EoiToR: Molly McVoy PIIOTO EDITOR: E!i,.abcth Lang 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Pat Peters An OF51GN MANAGER: Chris Avi1;1 SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam fnrncr CONTROLLER: Bob \X'ood, GRA!'HICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
Omn MANAGER/GENERAL INFO ••··•····•·••631-747 1 FAX.............................. ·••·••··•······ ..·············63]-6927 AnVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwi n .cc. nd.cd u Emron IN CmEF ...................................... 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME...................63 I -454 I 8USINF.S5 OFFICE.......................................631-5313 NEWS.................... ................631-5323 obscrver.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT. ....................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint.l@nd.edu SPORTS.......................................................63 l -4 543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SnNF......................................................... 6.11-4 540 
obsp-ver.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S............................................631-4324 
ohserver.srnc. l@nd.edu PHOTO.................................................... 631-876' SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRAT0RS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobseroer.ndedu for daily updates of campL!S news. sporrs. features and opinion columns. a, well as cartoons. reviews and breaking news from ,he Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly smdem reviews 
advertise for policies 
online featuces for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published afrer 
m meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent. daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College. Edirnrial comem. including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither insrimtion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on conrenr. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, lecrers and columns present the views of rhe amhors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact inf'Ormation. 
Qumiom rrgrtrdiug Obremcr pnlkier ,hould br dirert­ed to Editor ;,i Chief Mike lowiol!y 
DILBERT 

DILBERT, 
YOU 
MEET THE HIRE.D 
NEW GU'Y. 
A GIANT AMOEBA? 
o .;
" YOU CAN'T GO = 
; AROUND JUDGING ~ 
"The sound oftireless voices is the price we 
pay for the right to hear the music ofour
j PEOPLE BY THEIR J. 
-0 LOOKS. 
own opinions.
:ii ~ 
... ~ 
'C 
! 
Adlai E. Stevenson 
;: 
::, 
politician
0 
Q 
"' 0 .. 

Wrenching Religion from Politics 
CHARLOTTESVILLE. Va. 
On Tuesday. the Anti-Defamation League, a primarily Jewish organiza­tion set up to combat anti-Semitism. sent a letter to vice-presidential candi­date Senator 
Joseph Lieberman Faraz Rana and bluntly told him to stop parad­ing his religion. The letter came in Cavalier Daily response to Lieberman's speech in Detroit in which the candidate made some remarks implying that Americans should "reaf­firm" their faith in God and allow reli­gion to enter the "public life.» As religion has taken a front seat on the campaign trail in this year's elec­tions, the AOL has done a necessary and commendable job to attack candi­dates who try to mix politics and reli­gion. Allowing politics and religion to . mix is a dangerous step toward infring­ing upon the separation of church and state. There is a clear problem in telling a political candidate to keep quiet about his religious ideologies. Presidential candidates, like every other citizen pro­tected by the Constitution, have a fun­damental right to freedom of expres­sion and religion. The AOL is not imply­ing that once you enter politics, you cease to become the same citizen with the same constitutional rights as the average voter. While a presidential candidate has 
the same rights as any other citizen, he also has the potential responsibility of representing the government, including its responsibilities and limitations. One of those limitations is making "no law respecting the establishment of a reli­gion" as stated in the First Amendment. The purpose of this clause is quite clear -favoritism inevitably would lead to exclusion. 
For example, Texas Gov. George W. Bush said in a speech at a B'nai B'nai Brith organization that "Our nation is chosen by God and commissioned by history to be a model to the world of justice and inclusion and diversity with­out division. Jews and Christians and Muslims speak as one in their commit­ment to a kind, just, tolerant society." If Bush were president when he gave these remarks, he would ultimately be implying as the executive leader of the government that Hindus, Buddhists, atheists and others not of the majority do not believe in a kind, just and toler­ant society. 
When Bush set aside a specific day as observance of "Jesus Day" in Texas, he used his political power to respect "the establishment of a religion." While "Jesus Day" in Texas is not quite the same as Congress passing a similar law that would affect the entire country, in theory. it violates the separation of reli­gion and government in the same man­ner. 
Lieberman stated in his speech in Detroit that one should never suppose that "morality can be maintained with-
SCOTT ADAMS 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
out religion." He was implying that atheists are highly immoral people. The absurdity and exclusivity of these remarks are why the architects of this nation wrote the First Amendment the way they did. 
The ADL also openly criticized both Vice President Al Gore and Bush earlier in March for expressing their religious conviction in the primaries. When Gore expressed on "60 Minutes" his strong faith in Christianity and Bush replied to a question that his favorite political philosopher was Jesus Christ, both rightfully were asked to limit their expression of religious faith. 
While respecting a candidate's right to express his religious beliefs, the ADL also has set a precedent of the limita­tions a candidate must endure when running for a government office. The separation of church and state form the building block of the right to freedom of religion, which cannot exist without limitations. 
Politics and politicians make up the government. If we're going to respect the separation of religion and govern­ment, we should start with respecting the separation of religion and politics. 
This column first appeared in the University ofVirginia newspaper, the Ca11alier Daily, on September 1, 2000, and is reprinted here courtesy ofU­
W!RE. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

ALBUM REVIEW 
Modest Mouse returns with depth, style 
Tl1e band continues to raise the indie-rock standard with its latest 
By JOE REISING 
.\L·cn,· ;\·11tsi1.: (:ri tit' 
A11v first linw lisl('lll'r of" Tlw Moon :ind :t\ntart'tka. tlw latPSL album f'rom indiP-rockPrs Moch·sl Mousl', will be blown away. For an PnlirP hour. lw or slw will b(• transportrd to tlw tinH'IPss worlds suggcstPd by tlw otlwrworldly photography insid1• tlw album booklf'l. 
Tin• songs. whllP all unlguP, blf'nd loMt'.t.hcr in ,l 111•1,,· world of Pndless gray sun swPpt skins and will make just about anyonP an att!'nlivP discip!P of' tlw soml)('r wisdom of' lt•,ul singer lsaar Brock Sonw muv cvPn como to thP co11"lusio11 that tlirv havf' found tlw 111'\\' soundtrack to tlwir lif'1•. But rt'IH'al lisll'nings fail lo rPc·apt.urt• tlw cl1•plll of' Llw inilial journPy. With tlrn PXC'.Pption of llw morP fatchy and gen­ll" al'ousLic nwlodiPs. tlw music bPgins Lu sound flat and to1wl1•ss. and instl\ad ur plungin;.; its listPnPrs inlo dt>cp tl1 !'taphys ind wa 11 d ,. rings. l hey inst.-ad find th1•msPIVPS listPning to drab clirgt'S and plainlivP yc•lls from a f"ar lo1wliPr placl' than th,:y may wish lo lw. lloWPV<'r. with thP scnmingly <'ndlPss ov1\rkill of' sugary happy pop llw music industry has poundnd the public wit-11 of latP. many may find llH•msPIV<'s again SPPking lhP dnplh and myst1•1·y pn•sPnt in Tfw Moon and /\ntardica. 
ModPsl Moust• hails from th!' brned­ing ground of manv alienated and lonPIV rnusil'ianS: the Pacific Nurtl1wPst. Morr specifirally. they conw from rural Issaquah. WA. where Ltw band l'ornwd in 1993 romposing of' vocalist Isaac Hrod. bassist Eric Judy and drumnwr .lnrnmiah Cnrnn. It was not until 1'J')(J that llrn band producnd its first full album. the 70-plus minute This is a Long l>riV<\ for Somconn with Nothing lo Think About. In 1'J!J7 they rPll'aS1!d an Iii'. The FruiL that Ale IUwlf. and in IfJ<J8 ttwir album Th11 Lonnsonw Crowded West drew lhn 
release, The Moon and Antarctica. 
atlcnlion of major record labels. The grour l'ndcd lip signing with Sony, and Tlw Moon and Anlarcti<'a is thf'ir major rPcord labrl dnbul from !:pie H<>cords. 
With The Moon and /\ntar<'ticu. Modf'st .Mousf' rais,1s the bar dan• g(m,usly high. The shcf'r scopr or thf' ,LI b um ·s th (' m cs and tayercd sound r P!'I Pct a g I' oup thaL has already reached maluritv l'airly quickly for 11 band whosP oldPst m(•.mb,•r is 2(1. c;uidl'd by singnr Isaac Brock's 
twangy voic<', the 
album scarchrs tlw morp dcsolatf' rcaclws of' human existence for insight into deep human questions. 
Thn album's first 
Bassist Eric Judy (left) and drummer Jeremiah Green (right) provide the transcendental alternative 
song, "3rd Planet" 
rock backing to lead vocalist Issac Brock's (center) unique rock 'n' roll vision.
begins with tlrn 

lament. "Everything that keeps mn together is !'ailing apart." and thnn dives into a crashing. swirling image of creation that suggests a deep connection between human bnings and thn earth. ThP song fades in and out of' the newly forming world. just as the simple acoustic guitar line beconrn.s over­wlrnlmed by a more urgent barrage of chords. 
Thn sP-cond song of the album. the soothing acoustic ballad "Gravity Rides Everything" seems rather out of place. hownver. The song envisions a time when gravity wins out. and the press­
ing demands and pains of' our daily lives "All will !'all/ fall right into place." This song would be a pcr­foct way to end thn album. a soothing rnminder after a painl'ul journey through lonnli­ness and ques­tioning that things will always work out in the rnd. In the grander vision of Isaac Bro{'.k, llrn song's placenrnnl must makn morn s<'nsn. "Dark CPntnr of the Univnrse," tlrn third song of tho album, takes a harshPr tone than tlrn f'irst two songs. as lhe squealing guitars that d<>l'inrd manv ol' Mod<'st Mous"·s 1· a r Ii" r 
songs mab•s its 
rPturn. This song C'ould Pas ii\' b<·rome thi• anth<'rn of any ,1·i• II int<' n t ion <'d guy told to gPt lost. 

After the subdued "Perfect Disguise," the album picks up momentum once again. as it begins its descent into the deeper and lonelier parts of the CD with the song "Tiny Cities Made of Ashes." Set to a pulsating bass line. and highlighted by a creepy dual voicn the final song of thr album. "What People arc Made Of." the band returns to the blasting noise and primal screams of its narlinr work. revealing that the wisdom gainPd in this dnso­latn journey still providns littln coml'ort in a world ol' isolation and spiritual 
effect. the song details a dementnd uncnrtainty. road trip as Brock screams, "Does Whiln most 
anybody know a. wav a bodv could get away/does anybody know a way?" After the Nirvana-like "A Different City," the next two songs on the album deal with various degrees of isola­tion. building up to the massive "Thn Stars are Projectors." At ovnr eight min­utes. thn song is the longost and most transccnden­t al track of' the album. Full o[ shifting dynamics. 
Album Song List 
1. 3rd Planet 
2. 
Gravity Rides Everything 

3. 
Dark Center Of The Univorsn 

4. 
PerfeC'.t Disguise 

5. 
Tiny Cities Made Of Ashes <>. A Diffornnt City 


7. 
Tho Cold Part 

8. 
Alone Down Timm 

9. 
Tho Stars Are Projectors 

10. 
Wild Packs or Family Dogs 

11. 
Paper Thin Walls 


12. I Came As A Hat 
13. 
Lives 

14. 
Life Like Wends 

15. 
What People Arn Made or 


tho song builds in urgency and sound laynrs until (WCntually reducing to a sort l'inger-pickPd guitar. 
ThP rest of' the songs on the album slowly n1turn the listener to more familiar places of sounds and imagns. nspe!'.ially thn bright. happily nPuroti(' "Paper Thin Walls." 
Thi' vast journ<'y through iso­1ati on und spiritual snarr.hing appnars lo rcrnch some· sort of rnso-Jution lalbr>H a lnss than optimistir on<' l ns th n album draws to a r l o s n . llow<'ver in 
other bands nasily resolvn surh pain and confusion within thn coursn of an album, or otherwisn nevc1r dPlve far enough into tlrn roots of' tlrnir anger to reach such a deep p s y c h o I o g i <' a I plan<'. lsaar Brock takns his listPnnrs on a bPautil'ul journey that strugg!Ps to grasp sonw of tlw most basic quPs­lions ol' human nxisl<'ll<'<'. \Vlwn• did WP comp from'' VVhy W<'r<' 
wn r r n a t ,, d'.' 
Wh0rn can WP search for nwaning in our lives? 
Though never sPttling upon a l'inal answer, the jourrwy is a mf'aningf'ul 011<1. /\nd with tlrn lwautifully layPr<'d sounds and haunting vorals to sur­round mn. it is on!' anyonn will !'ind mon• and morn worth rPpnating. 

The Moon & Antarctica 
Modest Mouse 
Epic Records 
Rating 
.,....... 


Are we connecting? 

Notre Dame's biggest organization for minority students has a new
OCUS 
name and a new mission, but its challenges remain the same.
O
THE 
Tuesday, September S, 2000 BSERVER 
Striving to build bridges 
Multicultural office tries to reach out, unite campus 
Hy Tl!\1 IOCAN 111 l·olll, I di101 
ii \\'HS a SllllllV h·idav af"tpr110011 i\:otrc• ·nanw was slid­ing into llw !'irsl \\l'l'k­PIHI of' tlw S!'.hool :','Par a 11 cl s l u d ,, n ls w (' r «' ralki11g about what. to do ancl ,,lwr\' lo g() 011 Ll1!'ir l'irsl Friday night hark on rampus. 
At FiPldhousP :\lall, a 1-rowd had galhPrPd. as of'tP11 lrnppc•ns on sunnv 1:ridav aft1•r­110on~. A b,i°nd was playing; tlwrl' was f'n•c• food and about 150 pPopll' ,,·c•rp talking and laughing and c•al­ing and da111·i11g. 
What was unusual was that tlwsl' i :iO JW op I1 • ta I k i11 g an cl laughing ancl Paling ,1 nd dancing \\ Pr I' o I' a II di f'l'p r I' 11 l I' l h nir i ­til's; blal'k stuc!Pnts. ,\sian studPnts. Latino sludPnls and whit1• stucl(•nts 'Wl'n\ Pnjoying th" rn s P Iv I's at t lw 0fficP ol' Multirnltural StudPnt Programs and SPrvir1•s \V1•komP Back l'i(·nic. 
It is a picture• ramly Sl'l'll at NotrP Dam1\, with ils 86 fH'l'Ci'11t whitP sludi,nt body and its l'Vl'll rnorP homog1• nous tr a cl i ­Lions. But it was 01w that tlw \1SPS. and its clirPdor Iris Outlaw, would lik,· to sc,~ morn ofl1,n around ramp11s. 
"I think it's hy that wp'rp opnning our arms and saying no. it's nol just f'or stu­clPnls 111' color." Outlaw said. "It's for Pvery­onP. 
Tlw \1SPS us1'd to be• callc)d the 0ITicP of M u l ti nr ILu raI Stud r n t Affairs. It changed its rntlll(~ ovPr tlw surnnwr and acljusl<1d its mis­sion in an pfl'ort to b n <· o m P m o re de fi n i ­tivP and inclusive. Outlaw said Llw offkP wants Lo rnach ouL Lo majority stuclPnts and spur llw ronnccti.ons that too oflnn faltPr lw t \\' P I' n s l u cl P n ts o f cliiT('l'Pnt racPs on this campus. To do that, it is sponsoring morn l'VPnts likn the WPkome Back Picnic. and. !'or tlw f'irsl limn this year. running a sPri1•s of diversity 
see MSPS/page 4 

Diversity workshops aim to foster discussion 
Ry KATE NAGENGAST 
Nl'W!-. \X1ri tL·r 
To I' 11 cotiragp di al ogu!! on lhn issuP of diversity al Notrn lhtmP. tlw psychology depart­nwn l and Multicultural Student Programs and S1,rvic1•s (MSl'S) crPalPd a l'racticum in DivPrsity 1':clucatio11. 
Tlw l'onrs ol" this y1iar·s pro­gram -basPcl on a pilot pro­gram from last fall -will be 1ixpanding the dnfinition of diversity b<'yond racial d n s I" r i pt ions I. o 1111 1· om pass issuPs of gPndPr, sexuality, handicaps and class. 
"Although tlw topic of cliwr­sity is always going to touch some nrn·vcs. tlw goal of creat­ing clialoguc was met llast year! so we are continuing the program and refining it this vc!ar," said KIWin lluie, assis­tant dirr.ctor of MSPS and one of ni1w l'rarticum facilitators. 
The program is structured as a onP-crndit psychology 1:ourse lnd by llw facilitators. Wt!ekly meetings begin today lo prepare for presentations the 40 studnnt "diversity edu­cators" will give to freshmen in every residence hall this October. 
"Wn lhink of it as more of a program that you happen to get crodil l'or," said llunt llanovcr, a senior and one of 
the diversity educators invited lo participate in the program this year. "Everyone involved would be there regardless of [course] credit." 
"My experience with diversi­ty here at Notre Dame has been very interesting," said Charlyn Henderson, a senior and a diversity educator. "I thought I knew evnything about diversity just as a racial issue ... but anyone who is dif­fo rent than the majority is diverse and coming here real­ly opened my eyes to that." 
Iris Outlaw, director of MSPS and a Practicum facili­tator, described the need for the promotion of such discus­sions at Notre Dame. 
"The majority of students had said. that if not for some of the classes that they took, they could have gone through the University not knowing or discussing diversity," she said. 
The student diversity educa­tors participated in a week­end retreat at the start of the school year and met for din­ner last wrek to discuss the task they will undertake. The subsequent weekly meetings prepare them to give presen­tations and lead small group discussions in groups or three to five educators with assis­tance from one farilitator when they enter the dorms next month. 
Morgan Russell, a sopho­
more who participated in the program last year and a diversity educator this year said, "We want to do more small group work so the kids taking part in it don't fool intimidated by a big group of people." 
Last year's pilot program allowed diversity educators to test six different programs. Based on student responses to those efforts, this year's pre­sentations were revised. One important change in tlrn pro­gramming is the involvement of each hall staff in the dis­cussions. 
"They are supposed to have 
see TALKS/page 4 
In their wordsIn their words 
#8 
Notre Dame's ranking in the 1999 Princeton 
"You 're going to hang out with people who have "Some lhings have changed. 
Review's list of "Most 
the same cultural barkground -it's easier." 
Some things have not." 
Homogenous Colleges." Paul Ybarra
Mel Tardy 
Dillon Hall multicultural commissionerfirst-year advisor and 1986 Notre Dame graduate 

'h b . IN Focus Tuesday, September 5, 2000 
page 2~=--=-=================================~T,~e~O~se~rv=er=============================~=================== 

IN OUR EYES 
Outside looking in 
Wlrnn I wns a f'rpshmnn, one of my prof'P.ssors 
called mn a racist. Actually, she called all of us 
radsts. WP all stllr!)d at thf' white rrnnch 
woman with wonder. them at each other, 
s1H1rd1ing for answers. 
I, of'the 12-loan stucl1mt 
persuasion, had 1Hwer bPen 
r<'f'l•,-r('(I to as "privilegt>d" 
bdorn. ltaisml in a vory tol­
1•rant, polilP home. I hud 
1wvor lwPn ,H'CllSPd of 
!wing any sort of "ism." And 
tn be lalwkrl a racist 
St)Pmnd, ironirnlly. a huge 
injustir.1•. 
Our prof'Pssor's tlwory was t.li.tt. as a "privileged" whitn studc•nt at th11 Uniwrsity of' Notre~ Damn. I am incapablP or undn­slanding a black stu<l1•n1's 11cccls or strugg!Ps in gnttlng int.o school. For sornno,w who Imel stru!-{glncl through fair SAT src,rps and an averaw~ high sdwol systPm, I folt dwatcu lo b11 simply writ­ten off as an advantag1)d whitc• kid. 
It's hard wlwn you'rp a whit<,, Irish Notrr. llanw IPgary to appn•ciate tlw concept of "minority." I don·t know how a black person f1•Pls waiking through an 8h rwrccmt whil<' rnmpus, and I don't know what it's like to lw th«' minority rPprt'S<'ntative in a dassr(lom. 
But I do knm\· insPnrrity. StPpping onto a rnl­l1•gc• campus !'or tlw first tinw was intimidating Pnough. I n11i't imaginn how I'd fc•Pl slPpping onto a c·ampus wlwrP I was onc\ or only 14 pcr­l'Plll of tlw population. 
I'd likt• to know. though. But why am I so afraid to ask? Whv is sonwthing so obvious so diflkult to talk ab(lt1t? 
Probably dtw to our troubled past. the A1111irica11 public does not like to talk about racn. Instead I sit on a predominantly white campus, recognize the problem with diversity ratios, and rarely include mysnlf in multicultur­al nwnts. Why'? 
I do not hav·e black friends or Asian friends or white friends. I hav11 friends. I've never seen anyone I associate with, prnfcssionally or per­sonally. as a color or an ethnicity. Yet I know that at timr~s I l'all victim to what I call "the whit1\ pnrson's friendship guilt." 
As much as thny might not admit to it, gener­ally wlrnn a discussion or race ensues. many white students automatically start naming off all tlwir minority frit~nds. Why'! Why is tlrn first rnaction to open discussion to dnfnnd one's own personal opnn-mindedness? 
BncausP, in general, Americans am sensitive 1wopln. TlwrP is an inhernnt guilt within many whitli pnop!P, ignorant and accepting alike, that prPvt'nts them from being successful in rarP dc-lmtPs. It's thc! kind uf guilt that hinders tlwir disnrssions ol' hot button issues like the dmtth pPnalty and anirmativP action. 
It stems from nowlwn• but tlrn past. It's a constant, nagging rt•minder or tlw atrocities mi11oritiPs haw 1mdurnd in the United States, and it ling!'l's in tht• back ol' tlw white person's mind during any and all rPhwant discussions. It doPsn't nwan thr\ J)£\rson is racist, tolerant; lib­nral or rons1•rvalivP. It's just tlwrc• -the little voic:P that says "you ·rn right, but how can yuu arguf' with lwr? Your history is so difforpnt than lwrs." 
MPaningful dialogu1· is dirtin1lt when I don't f'VPll know tlw right words to use. How can I slart a n111wrsatim1 wlwn llH, fair. politic:ally rorrN·t PXpn•ssions rail mn? I still SPP no near­ing solution or dos!' Pml lo tlw "guilt." But until I do, I'll havn to rPmain oulsidP looking in. 

IN FOCUS STAFF 
Editor: nm Logan 
Photography: Tony Floyd 
Research: Kale Steer 
Graphics: !Jana Magnuson 
By KA TE STEER 
Associate News Ediror 
!lave you ever looked around campus and thought you were seeing dones? 
This phi>nomenon seems to be common ai Notre Dame, but amazingly. some people here do defy the st0,reotypcs. 
"Not everyone wears Abercrombie and Fitch or comes from the same culture," said Dillon llall multicullural commis­sioner Paul Ybarra. 
Where does the desire lo fit. one prnscribed "ideal" come from? What can students and the l.inivorsity do about these issues? Is tiler~ any possibility for improvement or will these situa­tions nxist indefinitely? 
Snme l'acultv and stud(\nts arc currently working to improve race n~lations on campus. With oft1ces such as Multicultural Student Programs and Services (MSPS) and a multicultural or diversity commissionPr in each dorm, the University is making efforts to raise aware,rnss and curiosity about other cultures. 
But some situations are known for being divisive among students. 
"They say the most segregated time of the Wfwk is in church, the second being at the dining hall," said Patrick White, multicultural commissioner for Fisher llall. Visible situations like these, that make groups seem impenetrable, operate as roadblocks to progress. Students who do not belong to a given group perceive exclusion, while those involved may not. 
"I don't think about it -you're eating a meal with people you're comfortable with." said Jane Ong, who serves as multicultural com­missioner for Farley Hall. 
Iris Outlaw. director of MSPS, sees the key to breaking down 
Trying to 

Student diversity l self-separati 
Students gather at the Center for Social Concerns in February to discuss inte1 race and breaking down the barriers and stereotypes that separate people at 
these barriers as being able to step outside of your comfort zone and learn new things about differ­ent people and cultures. 
White sees his role as that of an educator. 
"As multicultural commissioner, I serve to facilitate dialogue in the dorm, to expose everyone to other cultures." In this capacity. he can help to encourage people to move 
away from what is familiar and 
comfortable. 
But what is the purpose of this position'? Cynics say that the aver­age Notre Dame student is apa­thetic and dispassionate. If this is true, will this service reach the average Notre Dam11 sludPnt? There is, of course, no way to cat­egorize all tlrn students at this Linivcrsity as onn and to only cater to that one image. 
"So many Notre Dame studnnts come from privilegnd back­grounds, and through no fault of their own, they haven't benn exposed to otlrnr cultures," White said. lie said that giving pnople the opportunity to experience something different is only the first step. "You have to go out or your way [to nxperience othnr cul­tures!." 
But some say this is not Pnough. 
Outlaw said her departnrnnt has realized that past efforts have not been sufficient. Thn rncent name changP. of tlrn office, from the Office of Multicultural Studnnt Affairs was a part or an attempt to alter ttrn approach to ca 111 pus diversitv. 
This year is the beginning of many changes ainwd at involving majority students. "I think it's key that w0,'re opening our arms and [saying!, 'No, it's not just for stu­dents of color, it's for nveryorw,"' Outlaw said. "IMSPSI is about exposing t.he rest of campus to somn things that may soem for­eign and strange at limns ... So It's an educational comporrnnl." 
Outlaw cited stereotyping of lwr office as a reason for thn n 1lativ1) lack of success in reaching somn students. Peopln often miscon­ceived the function of' OMSA as being an offico that SHrved only minority students. that it was tlrn underrepresented student's Office of Stud1mt Affairs. 
Ybarra is part of' this df'ort. lie 

Tuesday, September 5, 2000 The Observer . IN FOCUS page 3 
eak dow-n barriers 

ders are encouraging their peers to fight and step outside the comfort zone 

Will multicultural students have a place of their own? 
perceives his role as the pre­sentc r of opportunity to the unaware. "If vou want to learn about different cul­tures, different ways of think­ing, it's available," Ybarra said. "I think by simply dis­playing different cultures, it can put into people's minds the i~.ca that it is welcoming here. 
Ong approaches her posi­tion with a similar attitude. 
"There's a potential for stu­dents to get involved, but 11xcitnment nneds to be built," slrn said. "Most !Notre Dame stud1H1tsl arP open-minded, willing to learn, tbe opportu­nity just hasn't been present­nd." 
Fulf'illing his job isn't enough. Ybarra said. Other 
. I ntercultural Center building may be in future 
By TIM LOGAN 
In focus Editor 
It may not happen for a long time, but someday. minority studnnts al Notre Dame could have a studl'nl center of their 
own. 
CurrPntlv. Multicultural Studont ·1'rograms and S11rvires and Intcrn ati on al Stmlent Affairs have of!1ces on the second f'loor of LaFortuue Stu d c• nt Cc n l c r . The two groups jointly operate the lntcrcultural Center. which 
students need to become active participants in the multicultural atmosphere of Notre Dame. "When you do things with multicultural clubs, it tends to become your own little world," he said. 
Ong has experienced the same phenomenon. As an officer in the Filipino American Student Organization she has been in situations where the point seems to be lost. "Sometimes you get so involved with plan­ning that it doesn't seem like you 're reaching out," she said. 
If those involved in a given multicultural club are gener­ally students who come from that particular culture, then 
hosts a range of events and has a variety of resources. La.Fortune's second noor also serves as a gathering place for minority students, and a place to hold meetings. 
The Center is serving its purpose, according to Sister Jean Lenz, assistant vice pres­ident for Student Affairs. 
"It is happening over there already," she said. "There is a real mixture." 
Thi: area also has a Coalition Lounge, a spot adjacf'nt to the MSPS office where interns work and student groups hold meetings. 
But many schools have their own buildings for multicultur­al programs. ·And Outlaw said that is her goal for Notre 
Minority Distribution at 
a chain reaction is started that ultimately results in the support of a stereotype. Ybarra said that the majority students are not the only ones at fault in the situation. 
"Self-separation is common in a lot of us," he said. "You're going to hang out with people who have the same cultural background ­it's easier." 
rn general, there is not enough involvement in these clubs on the part of the majority student, members said. 
"By being a part of these societies, you're already look­ing toward open-mindedness, toward accepting other cul­tures and understanding your own," Ybarra said. If this 
"We want to have our building. But that comes with donations and building and all that kind ofthing." 
Iris Outlaw director of Multicultural Student Programs and Services 
Dame. 
"We want to hawi our build­ing," she said. "But that comes with donations and building and all that kind of thing." 
There are no plans on the drawing boarrl right now, but Outlaw said she hopes a cen-
Notre Dame 
iUfflFBt,B" !miil.Mitc•·lMJit:·•IIM:&•.Wil!iE#/1it•••!l:'¼>·•i\fuWF-$mXWJ\l.Wi!i @Ii @!\ ..·@\ 
undergraduates in 1998 
Black 261 3.3% 
.­
Native American 38 0.5% Asian 276 3.5% 537 6.8%
Hispanic 

source: 1999 fact book 
step were taken, attitudes on campus would change drasti­cally, he said. 
Will such a move help to dispel common misconcep­tions about minority groups on campus? Ybarra said that a place like Notre Dame has the potential to succeed in this capacity. " I still see a lot of homogeneity, but at a place of learning, we can move in a positive direction." 
He also said that he under­stands the importance of his work. "I don't ever want any­one to judge me on my appearance or culture with­out knowing who I am." By working to prevent such pre­judgement, he can improve life on campus. 
Outlaw made a similar observation. 
"You can get a different twist too, looking at how Christ walked: Christ walked among all kinds of people who are different from him­self," she said. "Christ was a minister and an ally, and how are you going to be an ally to people who are different than yourself?" 
ter is in Notre Dame's future. She envisions a building that is part or a larger, renovated LaFortune Student Center complex, one which would likely be shared with a range of student groups and have seminar rooms and sodal space in addition to offices. 
"The vision that we'd have is that it would not onlv hous0 international affairs and the MSPS, but it would also house student organizations," Outlaw said. "We've got 250 organizations on campus, and how many carrels are in the Club Resource Center?" 
A centrally located building that mixes minority groups with general student organiza­tions, such as the crew team 
Talking 
about 
race 
''They say the most segregated time ofthe week is at church, the second being in the dining hall." 
Patrick White Fisher Hall multicultural commissioner 
"/ don't think about it -you 're eating a meal with people you 're comfortable with. " 
1 
Jane Ong Farley Hall multicuHural commissioner 
and the glee club, would do much to allay the biggest con­cern critics have voiced about a multicultural center: that it would simply isolate minority students more. 
"We've gone back and forth on that." Lfrnz said. "Some people do want a separate building." 
Rut, for now, the center is still in the hypothetical stages. No one has donated money to construct one and it is not atop the University's list of 
.... 
building priorities. 
And until that changes, MSPS. the Office of International Student Affairs and minority student groups will continue to share the sec­ond floor of Lafortune. 
page 4 The Observer. IN FOCUS Tuesday, September 5. 2000 
MSPS 
continued from page 1 
workshops for l'rl'S h nw 11. MSPS is also improving its Pducalional ofTPrings lo n·ach a widPr audiPIH'.I'. 
"That's wlwrn our Pxpan­sion is going," Outlaw said. "Tlw st>rvi1'1•s w,· provicfP and tlw programs WI' provide arn for llVf'l"VOIH'." 
Tlw ohkr•'s con• mission ­lo support stud1i11Ls of color acadPmirally and culturally and to cnsmP tlwy gPt a WPll­roundl'd ,•duration -l"f!mains tlw sarn!'. MSPS sponsors l'orurns to discuss div,~rsily issu1•s. organi11•s tnl'llt.oring and 1wtworking programs and provid1•s a link b1•tw1H•n minoritv stud,•nts and mnnv llnivnsity olTicPs. · 
"W!•v,: drn1P t,•am building, t·ommunicalion, lhosP sorts ol' things that art• h(•yo1HI tlw µigf'onholP that our of'lkt• gt>ts put in by thinking that 
has a long hislorv of racial ·t1~nsio11s. It was those tensions that h•d to a 197S sit­in oul ol' which Llw OMSA was rreal1\d. A 1<J() J µrol1!st led tlrn UnivHsity to tab• further st!\ps lo try and improv1• tlw racial climatn 011 campus. In recent y11ars, these tPnsions havl' 111,rnifcst1•d thernsnlves in rlH1Pring along rncial lines at Bookstore Basketball }{anrns. and in clebatns over a num!H'r of incidents. As a 
rn1rnlt of' Urnse th c years, NotrP Dame 
has added and adjuslPrl its 11ITorts to l'llCOllragc cl i \' e r S i t V , a c c o rd i ng ·lo S is tn r .I 11 a n 1.nnz, «ssis­tant vicn prns­id P n t f'or Student Affairs. 
"There huvc 
U('(Hl SOllll\ 
r P a I dil'f'ic u l ­
tins ovpr tlw vPars." slw said. "A Io l of th,;s n difficult ics havP inc!ir.atcd thP !1('Pd for programs on such things." 
But another challcngn is morP subtln. and perhaps mon• dillirnlt to dPal with. 
That chal­
lrrnge is sim­
it's only for ·"He!ations on campus are ply tho atti­11ndnrr1•1irP­tude, al a
not the best and eueryone 
school whom
s11n lPd p(•o­
has a lilllefPar. ..
plt'," slrn said. 
But chal-
Brendan Dowdall 
1 f' ll g !' s 
chair of Student Senate 
abound. 
Diversity Committee
Noln• l>amP 
f'ffect on conw to 
lr.nsions over 
"That ·s what we're trying to do, to tell people 'take a risk.· ... That ·s a chance to learn about another culture thal you may not have been exposed to at all." 
Iris Outlaw director of Multicultural Student Services and Programs 
so many stu­dents are so s i mi I a r. towards the people who am not. And, Outlaw said. it has an freshmen who have Notre Dame from a 
more diverse environment. 
"You have the upperclass­men -tlwy don't really come out and say 'Don't hang out with the black kids, don't hang out with tlw Latinos.· 
Bul behaviors. actions speak louder than words," strn said. "/\nd so you got these r.ommu­nicalions. indirect communi­cations. Then you start mov­ing over. and changing what. 
has Jrnnn your major philosophy." 
Fighting those chang(1s, and nncour­aging people to hn1ak out of' Urn f'arnil­iar, is the task al hand for MSPS and the st11­d en ts who work with tlwm. 
"BPlalions on r.amµus arP not the b1~st and evcryorw has a littlP roar." said i~rondan Dowdall. chair of tlrn StudPnt 
Senatp's Diversity CommiWH'. "It takes a little bit lo gl'l out of your comfort zorrn for stu­donts and talk to som(101w dif­forent than llrnm." 
Ncvf'rthnlPss, 1.hn nnviron­ment is .not v,hal it usPd to be, according to Mel Tardy, a first year advisor and 1986 alum­nus. 
"Some things have changed," said Tardy, who is black. "Some things have nol." 
"Tlwre's more ol' an expec­tation that people understand diversity and they're more tol­f)rant and morn accepting," he said. "(13ut many minority stu­dl1n~s I still f;;el that tlwy stand out rn class. 
The minority population has not grown much in tho last 10 years, but it has changed. 
1998 figurns from the OITiC!) of Institutional lfosearch show the number of Hispanic f'resh­m en has grown in thn last decade whiln .tlrn numlwrs of blacks and Asians havo dropped slightly. Either way, tho total pnrcentage of minor­ity studonts has hovored lrntwenn 14 and 17 pnrcent since 1988, when it rose from tlrn single digits. 
Tardy rcmember<'d his tinw :1t Notrn Dame, whnn students would gathnr in tho Black Culiural /\rf.s Council ol'Jico on LaFortuno's second floor to rnlax. 
"People would go tlwrn and hang out and study and talk about stuff that happe1wrl. It was like 'Whnt did sonrnonn say to you today·>· But I think there was just this und<'r­standing that. that was how things wern," hn said. 
"I think that thl'r(\ 0S a gr n a t11 r l' x pci d a ti o n th n s P days that wo should bP beyond t<'nsions." 
c';etting beyond those tPn­sions, and making scenes like t!lP o n n t h a t s u n n y F r id a y afternoon at FinldhousP Mall morr. common, rnquirPs st11­d!'nts to takn chancl's, Outlaw said. It n1quires stt1dPnls to put asidn their lhtrs. rational and irrational. 
"That's what wp'rn trying to do, to loll pnop!e, 'takP a risk,"' slw said. "No onP has evnr gotten muggPd. shot, killed, [orJ rob!wd bocausn th(iy happnned to bP the on!y white pPrson at Latin Expressions or Black lmagPs." 
"That's a chancn to !Parn about another culture that you may not havn bnnn exposed to al all." 
Talks 
continued from page 1 
tlw hall rnctors in lhn nrnPL­
ings with 11s this vnar so Hwt 
should k(inp down SO!ll() of 
thn ignorant 1'.ommnnts that 
wnrn rnadP last ynar," said 
Daly Barnns, a sophomorn 
divnrsity nd111·ator. "I just 
hopn t.o bring my apprnt:ia­
tion for clivPrsity and lwlp to 
,diminatP somP ol' tlw igno­
rancn that is out lhnrn." 
''I'm looking l'orward to nrnrn l'onts and unitv in llw group in !Prms or p;·ograrn­rn ing this y,•ar." said llnndPrson. who also partic­ipatl'Cl in last yPar's pilot program. 
TIii' fnn1s of 1.lw progralll will r(•main clialogu1· and Pducalion. "Tl11·rn·s going to bn sonw S()rious g!obaliza­lion now and I want to makP surP, and thn l"l'St or 1111• staff wants lo rn11kl' sur,• that our stucknts arn prP­parl'd for that." Outlaw said. 
That prPparation, hm\·1•v­Pr, is a largp task. according to 11 uit•. 
"l:vPrvo Ill' fl'!' Is /i kP th is progrnn1 will solvP all divPr­sity proh!Pms 011 1'a111p11s. but you just can't do that in a hour and a hall'." lw said. "But it can rrnalP rlialogul' and that's our goal." 
"!Thi' divnrsity Pclucators an•I a divPrsn group ol' won­rlnrful !J!'opll' -who bring many rlil'l'nrPnt pt\rspl'c­tivns," llanovPr said. "Tlw atmospll!•rp in till' room wlwn wn'rn doing this stu!T is 1ixcitp111nnt." 


Tuesday, Seprcmher 5, 2000 page 17 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Eminem album mixes talent with vulgarity 
traits into :t rPr.ordiRg studio,
By ARIENNE THOMPSON give your artist of r.hoice a 
Sc.:cnt 1\.1 ll'-.it.: ( ~riri~ 
microphone and voila. and 
months latrr you have Erninem's
Tlwn• s1•f'rns to b1• a prrtty sophomorn release, The 
simplP formula to f'ollow Marshall Mathers LI'. 1101\'ad,tvs to Pnsurr• mammoth "America's great white hop1~" su,·r1·ss· in thl' inl'amous and is back to defend his title as one s11rnPtinws shady rap world. One of' tho most obnoxious and mis­should m1Tt' ly lw lwmoplwbir. understood rapp1·1-s of' rnccnt vulgar, homicidal (prrhaps sui<·i­times, Trnilblazrrs such as NWA. dall. rclativdy insan!'. and most lr.n-T. Public Enemy and Tupac importantly~ mad at tlw ,1orld. Shakur set the standards for dis­So throw all tlws<! admirable turbing and tainting the virgin 

The Marshal Mathers LP, the latest album from rising star Emlnem, capitalizes even more heavily on violence and offensive language than his first album. 
ALBUM REVIEW 
minds of young America in the latr 1980s and early '90s, As one can imagine. songs that urged trens tn "kill thP policr" and "fight the powers that be" didn't go over well with the general public,, 
Parents and lawmakers alike wern up in arms about the evils of "gangsta rap" and it wasn't long before the controversial "Parental Advisory" label was born and systematically slapped on the front of every hip-hop album produced in the United States, This governmental con­trol nf free rxprnssion was a mir­acle it seemed, Parents knew what their children were lis!.en­ing to, and young America was once again made slaves to the mainstream. 
Shortly thereafter, however, Am0rica's youth managed to beat thn systnm again (as always). and wne bopping their heads to the prophetir, Tupac once again. 
Capitalizing on this idea of freedom of exprPssion, Mr. Marshall Mathers decides a few years after the death of Tupar, that he wants to be the next in line to terrorize thr, 50 states. The difference is. he is just a reg­ular guy from a regular city in America. What's his gimmick? Nothing about his appearance or mannerisms screams originality or nair, so what does he do? He invents the "most meanest MC on this earth." 
Eminem, as he is affectionately called by millions, is undoubtedly insane, and yet, refreshingly entertaining. Under the tutelage of veteran rapper Dr. Dre, Eminem has become the well­oiled machine that he has always wanted to be, 
This machine does have a few glitches to be worked out, how­ever. The Marshall Mathers LP. released earlier this summer. is 
Jayhawks shine with new pop album Smile 
By GRAEME R.A. WYLLIE Scene :-.1usic Criric 
Originally l'ornwd 15 y(\ars ago. Smile is the sixth album from tlw \\1innPsota-bascd Javhawks, and the si;rnnd sinrn tlw dPparturr of co-founder Marc Olson, liarly albums sut'.11 as llollywood Town llall and Tomorrow, tlw (;n~nn Grass displaynd a country tinged sound with !wavy inlhwncos by such artist~ as NPil Young and Slf'VP liarlc. and a stylP that was dubbPd as altrrna­tivn-rnuntry long bdill'l' thn lrwm was even being used as a distint'.l gPn1·P. But wilh tlw mid ()Os departun, of Olson to rnrord with his '>\'iii~ Victoria Williams as thf' more folkv sounding Original llarmony HidgP CrPek Dippers. the sub­srqunnl album, l tJ'J7's sonlf'v\hat patchy Sound of Lies bPgan a mov<' mrny from thn folk/country sounds of the rarliPr albums and LO\rnrd a rnon:i pop orientated sound. Smill' rnntimws this movi~. if noL completing the journey, This is rrnl to s,1v that nnrntrv sounds are nn!irclv absent f'rom Simk. "llr,ohn llarpi;on" and "A Break in thr Clouds" in partirnlar would could haw rusily brnHl li1und on t•arli«'r ,db11rns, llut mnrall. undPr tlw lrad1'rship 1if'tlm rnnrnining 1·0-l'oundPr and prinripln songwritPr Gary Louris. llw band h:L'i obvious)~, bnPn ,vorking hard mixing togl'llwr such inf1u1•11cPs as latt•r-l'ra BPat!Ps, tlw Bna('h Bm·<;, and Big Star to l'orrn an PXtrPmely r,atchy and very llf)-bPal rnllPction o!' songs, l lugl' rhorus<is. 1L coll«ir.tion of ho()b !11 clit' l'()r and ,L strong sPt of' turn's make this onn of tlw bP"t albums of tlw \'Par· so l'ar, and onn that should ronstanll~' bf' rPsiding in ·,my musi1· lovrr's Cll 1·hahg1ir. SLandou1 c·uL-, inl'lud(' llw (lj)<'JH'r and till£' track "Srnill'," whirh displays tlH' most ol1\'im1s Bt>atlPs inllur1H'P of th<' album. partirularly in tlw vorals on the chorus a.'i wl'!I a.-.; having a wonderful string section. The whole trar.k just builds and builds from iL'i initial guitar and piano intro to an epic finish, 'Tm Gonna Make You LovP Me" kicks with a lone mandolin on the intro. but soon is soon transformed by a wondrrful sing-along chorus that continuAs to display the seminal influrncr that the 70s band Big Star still holds on many of today's songwriters. And although many of the influences of' this album are bands from the late 60s and early 70s, it should be pointt\d out that tht\ album does not at all sound dated, 
Other standout songs include the rockier "Life Floats By" and "Pretty Thing," and the sublime ballads "What Led l\le to this Town" and "Mr. Wilson" f3ut genPrally, the entire album stands up well to repeated listening and will most likely have anyone who buys the album quickly finding 
thPmselvns singing along with the vnrsPs. 
There arc, however, one or two negative points to Srnilc. particularly rnlating to the work uf producer Bob Ezrin, !\. couple of the songs an' just simply ovPr rroducPd. and f.hP multi-tracking of instrumnnts and vocals is somewhat 1\xr,essivc on sev<'ral tracks. In addition thr two w<'akest songs on tlw album b<'ar Ezrins nam<' in tlw writing crediLi;, and it makPs 0111· wish at tinws that tlw producer had bf'cn kPpt on a tightt'r !Pash, /\!so tlw drum loops on a r.ouplr of the songs. although giving risl' to a morn modt'rn sound. managP at tlw sanw linw to S<'t'rn a bit sup<'i-fluous and out of pl11n,, A great d,•al of thr rriiicism of' this album by thr. rnst of tlw musi<'al pn•ss has contnirwd ,u:cus,ttions ul' sf'lling out. but listrning to both Simi<' and tlw prrvious album. as well as Mark Olson ·s post a compilation of some of the most wir.ked and profane com­men ts and assertions made bv any one artist on any one album, There's murder, mayhem and mystery on Slim Shady's second release, and he's not apologizing for any of it. Slim is without question one MC to be reckoned with. as evidenced by trar.ks like the angry the angry. 'Tm Bar.k" and the wittv "Kill You." llis rhythmic variety and unexpectAd comic delivery on "v\'ho Knew" and "Under the lnnuence" show­r.ase his skills as a seasoned and talented rapper. But his subject matter starts to run drv as nearlv every song on the albu·m is abm;t his obligations to mounting suc­cess, his strained relationship with his mother, and his tenden­cy to be "Pigeonholed into some poppy sensation." 

A Slim srnrned is nothing to play with, though. Few escape Eminem's dirty mouth as he gives Christina Aguilera, his wife Kim, and pop ir.ons Britney Spears and N'SYNC ridiculously crude verbal lashings on at least three different songs. 
Lyrically, Slim reaches his absolute peak on standout tracks like "Stan" and "The Wav I Am." Displaying the rawness of his emotion and skill, these songs 
Jayhawks output. makes it obvious where the majority of thr, country influences were coming from. On the other hand, Gary Louris, like other artists such as Jeff Tweedy of Wilen and Matthew Sweet. clearly just knows how to write a great and catchy pop song. 
Ultimately, it is these songs that shine through and givn the album a grnat collection of up-beat trar.ks that should bring a smile to thn stoniest o( faces. 
And for those fans who do pick up this album. be sure to chnck oul W11ird Tales by Golden Smog, a colaboration formed by mflmbcrs of the .Jayhawks, Wilco, Soul Asylum and Big Star that also contains a stand-out set of similar guitar driven pop tunes and is well worth checking out. 
Although Smilr was released several months ago. the band has just been announcr,d as the support act for thr, uprnming Matchbox 20 concert at the Joyce C.entPr. 
Smile 
The Jayhawks 
Columbia Records 
Rating 
......,.,., 
get to the very core of what Eminem represents to his altnr ego, Marshall Mathers and to the world as a whole, "Stan" is superb in composition, The first three verses arc r.onstructed as letters written bv an overzealous fan, Stan. He is desperate to have a l'riend, and confidante in the larger-than-life Eminem. but soon discovers that like most celebrities, Slim does not answer fan mail eagerly, Eminem voices the angry Stan with sur,h r.hilling emotion that it is almost a relief to hear the real Slim Shady take charge of' the last verse, which is the long-awaited reply to Stan's letters. 'The Way I Am" also dis­plays Slim's emotional handles as he bashes the media for plac­ing labels on him and his fans for admiring him too deeply. 
It is ironic that the poor, regu­lar guy from Detroit who wanted nothing more than to make it big in rap now wishes he "could just die or get fired." 
Slim Shady is undoubtedly troubled, but through his strug­gles come the raw talent and aptitude that have made him the most popular and r.ertifiable rap­per of' the past two years. And only time will tell how long America's favorite misanthrope will continue to charm us. 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 5, 2000 
U.S. OPEN 
Sampras stifles Lee to advance to quarterfinals 
As,1,ociatt•,I Press 
Nl•:WYOHK 
S111T11und.-d by 2:~.000 1'mpty Sl'aLs and bul'l"i-1,•d by ).';alP-h>rc1· \\inds. ,t no-nun­spns,· !'I'll' Sampras ptrl an 1·11d 11l tlw U.S. Op.-n !'airy tall' of South Korl'a·s Ilyung­Taik 1 .... 
Sa111prns. wl111 !mids a J'l'('()rd IJ (;rand Slam litlPs. found himsPll' undPr nxtraordi­nary pn•sstirl' :\'ionday in tlw l'irst s<'l agarnsl I,I'<'. a q11alifi1-r playing in his li1·st major !.ournaim'nl. 
i\. 11,·arlv f'ull h<HISP of fans at Arthur ,\slw Stadium d<'iightl'd in l.Pl''s nPrvy, sturdy play amid tlw sw<'ltPring lwat and humidity wlwn play bngan during llw itf'tPrnoon. But allPr a doudburst suspnnd­l'd tl11• matl'h with Sampras lPading 7-6 f4l. :{-1. it look 2 1/2 hours bnf'orn play rc>sumPd in rhilly. windy w1mtlrnr. 
Tlw stadium was virtually empty thl'n. PXCPpl for a roupfn hundrnd fans as the night 1:rowd drilll•d in, and SampnLs was in 1111 11wod to Int till' party ling1~r much longnr. l le-unlr\as,wd a 1:Q mph aci, on his first sPrvP and dosml out the snt by hrnaking l.nt> at low. 
I.PP, a strong, quick basrlinnr who ,-vas unrulTled by Sampras or thP occasion, m1wd bPttPr with tlm l'our-tin11' champion and thf' fil'rcl' br1wzos in tlw thin! st>t hd'orP finally going down 7-<, 141. h-2. <,-4. 
Sampras advanr·1•d to tlw quart1'r!inals. wlwn· h1~ will play Hirhard Krajirck. a 7-6 (11 l. (>-4. f,-1 virtor owr llominik llrbaty. 
LP1• gavP Sampras a lot of troubln al the start. Samprw.; was imprPssPd not only by l.n1's rPturn of SPl'VI', but his abilitv to slav calm in th!' biggf'st matrh of his Iii'!~. · 
"I h• was niol as a !'urumlwr," Sampras said. 1111,s a good playrr.... !IP wasn't ovPrwlwlnwd by tlw situation. playing Ill<' 1111 ('<'lltl'r rourt. 11<' ranw out and lwld his own. 
"But a.ftPr I got llw lirst sPt. l startPd to sPttlr• down and startl'd playing a Jillie bit bnttPr and just wPnt from thPrP to dPal with ttw rain. And thnn coming back. deal­ing with Llw wind and the cool weather. it ww, a rompll'tPly difl'pn,nt match from the first s<'L" 
Sampras fondPd oil' tlm~n break poinLs in the sixth gam<' of the first sd and won the tinbrPakPr only when Len inadvrrtently touchPd th<' net with his foot as he rushed in for an overhead on a short half-volley by Sampras. Lee thought no one would notice. Sampras dicln 't, but the umpire did. 
"Aft<'r I miss(•d that, I was a l'rf'iing a lit­tlr-down and I lost a lot of' momrntum," I.PP said through an intcrprnl!'r. "I wasn't mys!'lf at tlw b1·ginning of lhi, si,cond Sl't." 
Still. l.r'P thought th!' tal<' of1hr tiPbrPak­Pr and his foot touching tlw nnt might be a good story for his grandrhildrPn sonw day. 
"I think l would nxagg<'rali' a liltln bit. and say ·1 was winning and I tourhml tlw rwt and I happPW'd to loS!'." lw said with a laugh. 
l.!'I' said he was impressPd by Sampras· Sl'rV<\ his calm <·omposurn and his vollnys. but wasn't ov1·rawrd. In fact. lrn rnmn awav with his confidP1H·P boostPd. 
"At first, when I would play a ranked player. I would b<1 more concPrned with his numbnr and I would bP a litt(r\ afraid and I might consider rnys<:11' a coward," LP.e said. "But aftPr this experiencr, l fop[ that I ran play anyonP on any given day. l'v11 earnml that kind of confidence." 
One call made all the difference for dnf'ending women's champion St>rena Williams in a t<'nsP tiPbrnakPr and broke the spirit of'Jelena Dokk. 
The way they reacted to that call. and the shift in momentum it hPralded. told mur:h about tlrn qualities of' a champion that Williams possesses. and that the sad­PVPd I>okic still must find whiln she deals with hl'r father's troubles. 
Williams rallit\d from that point -tlw st>rnnd ol' thre!' SPt points shn sav1!d in the first-set tiPbrnak<'r -to thrash Dokic the rest of tfw way. 7-6 (71, 6-0, Monday and move into the quarti,rlinals. 
At the end of' a long rally that had both playnrs scurrying side to side, Dokic dri!IPd a backhand crosscourt that a linP.s­man signaled widr to mak11 tlrn scorn (i-(1. Doh: argtl('d to no avail with th!' umpire, thr-n walknd with lrnr head and should0rs slumpPd to lh<' otlwr side of the net. 
ShP would get another set point by run­ning down a poor drop shot by Williams and whacking it crosscourt for a winner. but that was thn end of Dokir's threat. Williams saved that third sot point with a bar.khand volley that Dokic couldn't han­dle, then won the next two points. punctu­ating a strong backhand return with a loud "Yesss!" wh0.n Dokic nettnd the ball. 
That was all Williams needed as she watched Dokir, tank the second set, win­ning only throe poinl'i on serve. spraying live times as many unforced errors as she had the first set, and looking eager to catch the next night back to Australia to prepare for the Olympics. 
Shortly after the Williams-Dokic match, rain delayed play for the second straight day. When the matches resumed. Todd Martin finished olT a 7-f, (5). 6-3, 6-2 victo­ry over 10th-seeded Cedric Pioline. 
Martin won two sets and was leading in the third Sunday night before rain post­poned the end of the match. 

Also moving into the quartnrs WPrl' top­socdod Martina I lingis. who complntnd a match that was delayed becausP of Sunday's storms. boating No. 1 I Sandrine Testud f,-2, (i-1. It was her 12th consecu­tive victory and sixth this year against the French playnr, who has novrr dofoatnd her. 1 lingis next plays Monica Seles. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including al! spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Need babysitter in our home for 7-I have 5 bedrooms for rent in my FOR SALE-BUY/SELL N.D. FOOTBALL TICK-all 90 years and limping of it month-old. Granger. Must have car nicely-decorated private home for STANFORD, AIR FORCE, ETS. HOME & AWAY GAMES. & references, 243-5618 Football weekends; less than 2 BOSTON. (219) 289-8048 Cleveland Indians: Winner at base-
NOTICES 
miles north of stadium, continental Cheap. ball, but losers at life. 
Job direct wants to HIRE YOU! #1 brkfst included. Many happy repeat 654-0168 Need tix -75 Grad need 2-4 GA SKYDIVE!! Training Students for 35 rated student job search is seeking customers! Call Kim 277-8340. for Neb and/or Pur Call Tony Max -you should have run after Years 1 Hour North of South Bend enthusiastic reps. More info: WANTED (714 )523-3686 that S Man -he was in his socks GREAT LAKES SKYDIVERS, INC. nrodgers@nd.edu 1 mile from ND in quiet neighbor-ND FOOTBALL TKTS 1-800-351-6617 hood, 2 Bedroom very clean 289-9280 Need 1 cheap Purdue Ticket. Call hmmm ... but then you might have 
$69,500. Call (219) 264-4966 John 4-3670 missed the nose wiping SELLING
FOR RENT 
Recent ND grads need Turtle Creek ND FOOTBALL TKTS GA Ticket Available for Nebraska And who would ever want to miss
WANTED 
apt. to crash at for ND-NU game. 251-1570 Game -Sept. 9. Lower Section, 20 that? 
SOUTH BEND LODGING In-home $600/will stock apartment with lots of Yd. Line. Contact Jay: (201 )264­SPRINGBREAK 2001 Hiring On-B&B lodging for football games & food and beverages/ fund big VICTORY TKTS 0262 Only Chris Harris would almost get Campus Reps SELL TRIPS, EARN ND-SMC events. Close to campus. party..mattea@alumni.law.upenn.edu BUV'SELL'TRADE arrested by a man named Bowels: CASH. GO FREEi!! Student Travel Breakfast included. Call (219) 243-ND FOOTBALL Need 4 Nebraska tix 634-1430 Services America's #1 Student Tour 2628 or garyb@mvillage.com I NEED YOUR HELP! l'M A '92 ND 232-0964 I guess that stealth "kitchen route" Operator Jamaica. Mexico, GRAD AND LOST MY YEARBOOK Need GA's: 4 Stanford. 2AF, 2BC jusl didn't work. Bahamas, Europe. Florida 2 BDRM APTS. FOR 2000-01. IN A FLOOD. IF YOU KNOW ANY-BUY/SELL ND TICKETS Chris 634-4751 Beeley.1@nd.edu Oops. 1-800-648-4849 ALSO LEASING FOR 2001-02 ONE WHO HAS A '92 YEARBOOK 273•3911 www.gospnngbreak.com DAVE 291-2209 AND WOULD NOT MIND PART-Say my name 
ING WITH IT. PLEASE CALL ME ALWAYS BUYING 
PERSONAL
EARN EXTRA CASH Word-pro-ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE AT 830-772-5956 OR EMAIL AT NEBRASKA 271-9330 Yellow visor and a baby blue coat • cessing from dictation involving AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS esquivele@ mindspring.com Thank now that's style client case studies Must have com-http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ you. Cristina Ortiz TICKET MART I refuse to be the office trollop. purer. Diclaphone provided. Call for email:mmmrentals@aol .com BUY/SELL/TRADE And doing "the dome dump" was info+ interview mornings, M·Thur. 232-2595 ALL GAMES 271-9330 My apartment if lull of upstanding definitely a highlight. 
Ask for Cindy. 287-3373 2BR, 2nd fir. Apt. 525/mo. Along St. 
LOVE KIDS? WANT TO EARN Joe River. Include. Water/Sec.
GOOD MONEY BUT ONLY WORK Sysr./Trash 288-2654 or 288-2788 
A FEW HOURS A WEEK? Area family needs individual to care 
That Pretty Place, Bed and Break-
for two daughters 2·3 times/wk from fast Inn has space available for 3-6 p.m. starting mid-Sept. Mom football/parenl wknds. 
attending grad school in Chicago. 
5 Rooms w/ private baths. $80­
Girts are delightful' Transprtn need­$115, 
ed. Generous pay1 It interested, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. 
please call Karen Stonehlll at 272­Toll Road. Exit #107. 1-800-418­
5013. 
9487. 
young women.
FOR SALE 
ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED Does anyone know any foreign 
A.M. -232-2378 To answer the long-standing ques-singers from Toronto/ Women's Schwinn Bike 26 Like P.M. -288-2726 !ion ... the A&M stand for nothing. New Robbye 631-6218 It's true. Call. See for yourself. I hear they do a great happy 
ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE Birthday rendition 
A.M. -232-2378 Well giggem and god bless to 
P.M. -288-2726 that look for the Big TC on this week's 
TICKETS 
cover 
NEED 3-5 GA TICKETS FOR Anyone want to move off campus? BUSINESS MAN NEEDS NEBRASKA FOOTBALL GAME. Christian is a Cassale. Nebraska tickets or season 277-PLEASE CALL 1-630-904-6418 Nah ... I like the "security" of dorm (See Christian, I told you I'd get you 1659 THANKS living into The Observer.) 
~­
Tuesday, September, 05, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 5, 2000 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Boston retires Fisk's Braves, Mets share losing battle 
Last week. the playflrs even together solid numbrrs overall,
Assodaced Press 
No. 27 Red Sox jersey 
called a rare dubhousn ment­but he's only 3-5 since July 18. 
AssociJtc,I Pres., 
BOSTON For 25 yrars. the lof't-lfold foul pole at Fenway Park has 
romind1id Boston fans of' 
Carlton Fisk. Now therr's something along the right-field line to remember him by, too. 
Tlw Brd Sox retired Fisk's No. 27 on Monday, hanging it on tlrn right-field foradr with thn rrtirnd numbers of Bobby Dorrr (I), .loP Cronin (4). Carl Yastrzcmski {8) and Ted Williams 1<)1. as writ as .lar,kie Hobinson (42). Fisk is the onlv nativn N1~w Englander among thP bunch. 
"Carlton Fisk may tr.II you that growing up in New llampshirn ht• drramed of playing l"or the Hod Sox. I'm hcrP to t,~11 you that growing up in Massachusetts. I dn•amed of bl'ing Carlton Fisk," g1•nnral manager Dan DuquNl.t' said that sent the ·75 Series to a seventh game. 
f.isk may be known bet;t for his hnroics in one game, but he played his way into the llall of' Fa nm W ith a 111 ll It it UdO O f them. Ill' caught 2,226 games -more than any catchP.r in history, and hit a major 1i~ague record 351 of his 376 homers as a catcher. 
"lie played the game the right way," said Yastrzemski. who was a ttoammate for all of Fisk's time in Boston. "Pudge earnr.d his way into the llall of Famri with years of perfor­mance excellence." 
But a quote from Fisk postiid on the scoreboard summed it up as well as anything: "It' the human body recognized agony and frustration, people would never run marathons. have babies or play baseball." 
All of Fisk's longevity mile­ston<1s w<1re reached after lw lnft Boston for the White Sox in 
an acrimo­
at a rPr1'mo­"Carlton Fisk may tell nious con­
ny lwf"orc lracl dispute
you that growing up in
Boston bt'at following thr. Seattli· :,-I. New Hampshire he 1980 season. "Jl11's a big, Chicago has
dreamed ofplaying for 
old, hand­alrnady
the Red Sox. I'm here to 
sonw. stub­retired thn b o r n . tell you that growing up No. 72 ho 
mnlhodical. in Massachusetts, I worn for 13 
finry, Yan kef' ynars, though
dreamed ofbeing Carlton
N n w thnrn was no Eng I and 11 r Fisk." mention of who arr:om-the second plishPd all half' of' his
Dan Duquette
thosP career during
Red Sox general manager
dreams. i\nd. the cnrnmonv 
1tlong the way, he l"ul­lillcid our drPams, too." 
Drums bl'at and a fanfare sounded as a garage door in centPr lfold lifled and Fisk walkrd onto thP finld wlwre he spnnt thn first nine ol' his 22 full snasons in the major leagues. Instead of walking straight to a podium at second base, Im travelPd the perimctnr of" thn field to slap hands with fans and ballpark employer.s. 
A scoreboard tribute to his career began with the radio call of' his arm-waving, body­bending, game-ending homer off the lnft-firld foul pole in Ga m fl (i of' l h e 1 9 7 5 W o r I d Series. Aft11r running through sonrn morn highlights of f.isk's time in Boston -including a f'ight with Yankees outfielder Lou Pini11lla. who is now the Mariners manager -the video nndnd by showin){ thn 12th­inning homer ofT Pal Darcy dreaming of' playing baskntball !'or tlw Boston Critics and was inducted info thn baseball I lall of Fame this summer. having his number retired next to Williams' made the honor even more special. 
or  on  th~  
posters givnn  
to fans.  
For Fisk, who  grew  up  

"It was like I was somebody important." Fisk said. "I think when you play, you nevnr real­ly realize the impact you had." 
Before leaving the field. Fisk took part in a role-reversing first pitch, throwing to his longtime batterymate Luis Tiant. On his way out, Fisk shook hands with several play­ers near the Mariners dugout, including Alex Rodriguez, Mark McLemore and coar,h Larry Bowa. 
Piniella wasn't around. but he grabbed f.isk after the cere­mony and gave him a big hug. 
Women's Safety 
& 
Self-Defense 

Theobjectiveofthis course is to expose womento basic self-defense techniques as used in real-life crisis sih1a­
tions. 
Classes Begin Monday, September 11 10 Sessions on Mondays & Wednesdays 6:00-7:15 Rockne Memorial RM. 219 
Register in Advance at RecSports Registration Fee is $20.00 Call 631-6100 for more Info 
www.nd.edu/-recsport 
ATIANTA Go ahead. take the division title. The Atlanta Braves insist. 
No, no. no. The New York Mets don't want it. Can't they just leave it in Atlanta for another year'? 
On it goes, a so-called pP.11­nant race in which neither team will take contrul, flailing around in thfl "lL East as if the thought of extending the sea­son deep into October is down­right revolting. 
The Braves were off Monday. licking thflir wounds and trying to figure out how to escape the worst stretch of the year -five defrats in seven games, and eight of the last 11. Included is a srason-high, four-game los­ing strnak and three straight series losses, another first. 
While Atlanta is still on pacfl to win 95 games, it would be the fowest victories in a full season since 1991, when the Braves began their unprece­dented streak or right straight division titles. 

TIAA-CREF provides financial solutions to last alifetime. 

ing. hoping that airing things out. would turn things around. But Atlanta is only 2<-3 since going behind closed doors. 
"There's no panic in this club," manager Bobby Cox said, undctcrrnd by a 9-3 set­back Sunday to thn lowly Houston Astros. "I think the day off may help us. Mayb<' it'll break things up a lit.lie for us." 
Thanks to the suddenlv clutch-loss Mets. Atlanta was still clinging lo a one-game lead in the East altrr going 14­15 in August and losing two of' three in Houston to start September. Tho oncn-torrid Mets endured thrne straight final at-bat losse:s to St. Louis over the weekend and lost Monday at Cincinnati. 
"The way both tPams arc playing." Braves outfielder Brian .lordan said. "you'd think no one wants it." 
Atlanta r,ould always count on its starting pitching, but Tom Glavinn (18-6) has b11en out on a limb in rer,pnt wonks. 
Grog Maddux (l 5-8) has put 
Andy Ashby. acquired in an All-Star bmak deal, was rocked for five runs and eight hil'i in 3 2-3 innings Sunday, taking his fourth straight loss. Knvin Millwood is not tlrn sam0. pitch­er hr was a year ago. plodding along at 8-10 with a 4.7fi EHA. Overall, the stall EBA (4.22) is more than hall'-run abovn last yPa.r's and on paco to bn the higlrnst since I IJ90. 
It's not all about the pitching. Chipper ,Jones, who agrcnd last month to a six-ynar, $!JO mil­lion contract nxtnnsion, has bnen a rathnr ordinary player sincn tlrn /\II-Star brnak. I le is batting just .2:,9 with 11ight honH\rs and 2(, HBls, including a current 8-l"or-48 slump. 
Making those numbers morn pronouncPd, .lonns was alwavs one of the Braves' most rnlial;le dutch players. Until this yPar. Im had a .30(1 r,arecr average aft11r thP brnak and clinchc1d his first NL MVI' award last St'ason by hitting .]24 with 24 homPrs and !i] Hills down tlw stretch. 
..... " .................... .-.. . ·.• .......................... ,, ............... ..
~ . . " ........... -... .. ) 
..-----------------------------------~-------­
Tuesday, September 5, 2000 The Observer . OLYMPIC SPORTS page 21 
OLYMPICS 
Activists urge athletes to watch Nike 
Associated Press 
SYDNEY. Australia 
Olympic athletes were urged Monday to visit Nike factories in Indonesia that activists contend exploit workflrS. 
Activists renewed a campaign against the international sports­wear gi.ant, releasing a report that documents claims of intimi­dation and harassment of union workers and women in compa­nies contracted to make Nike shoes in lndo!1fisia. 
The Community Aid Abroad­Oxfa.m Australia report. ba..•;ed on interviews conducted with indus­trial union organizers in Indonesian factories. said work­r.rs were threatened with vio­lence if' tlrny tried to join unions; that union mPmbers were fired for small mistakes and that wonrnn wcrn intimidated into not applying for l!-lave by being rnquired to undergo humiliating medical examinations. 
Tim Connor. the author of the "l\iike\Vatch" report. said Nike was failing to protect workers rights in its contract factories in Indonesia. 
"Recently. Nike has been push­ing the line that it has reformed its human rights practices," Connor said. "The truth is that (there has been} only very minor and grudging reforms. 
"Nike is the biggest company in the sportswear industry .. if anyone can afford to pay work­ers enough to cat. enough to feed their children. Nike is the com­pany," Connor told a news con­ference Monday in Sydney. 
In response to Connor's report, Nike said il had undertaken to raise age requirements and wages for workers in Indonesia, improved factory conditions and published factory monitoring reports as part of reforms to improve conditions for its Asian workers. 
"No company has done as much in terms of labor rights, codr. of conduct enforcement. age and wage improvements as we have." said Vada Manager, Nike·s global issues manager. 
"We uphold the Olympic ideal of human dignity," the statement said. "Those campaigning to eliminate sweatshops are addressing the right issue, but targeting the wrong company." 
Connor said other sportswear manufacturers were equally responsible for exploitation of workers, but Nike was being tar­geted because it was the largest. 
Nike. based in Beaverton, Ore., has 708 factories operated by contract companies and employ• ing about 550.000 people. 
Jim Keady, a former soccer coach who resigned from St. John's in New York over a dis­pute about his refusal to wear Nike products, said athletes should experience firsthand the conditions endured by Nike workers in Indonesia. Keady is suing Nike in relation to his res­ignation, which he says was forced. 
Keady spent August in a facto­ry workers' slum in Indonesia trying to live on the wage of a Nike worker -which he said was about $1.20 a day. 
Fall Break Seminars 
October 15-20 , 2000 Experiential/Service Learning 
Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
-> Work and learn at one of 15 sites in the Appalachian region 

-> An ND tradition of service-learning 
CHILDREN & POVERTY SEMINAR 
-> Examine key children's concerns -> Focus on direct service and policy initiatives -> Site: New York City 

CULTURAL DIVERSilY SEMINAR 
-> Explore the cultural richness of Chicago -> Examine issues of diversity and related concerns -> Co-sponsored with Multicultural Student Programs and Services 

WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Theme: International Humanitarian Issues 
-> Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. -> Service and political awareness opportunities 

All seminars offer one academic credit 

SOCIAL 
Applications Available Now at the CSC CONCERNS Applications Due: Thursday, September 7, 2000 
Stadium's headwinds cause slow race times 
Associated Press 
BRISBANE, Australia 
Don't expect Maurice Greene 
to break his world record in 
the 1OO·meter final at the 
Sydney Games. Florence 
Griffith Joyner's world records 
in the women's 100 and 200 
appear safe from Marion 
Jones' clutches. 
World records in the dis­
tance races also are unlikely. 
despite the expected cool 
weather. 
Although the forecasters are 
predicting temperatures in the 
60s for late this month when 
the track and field competition 
is held -from Sept. 22-0ct. 1 
-the sprinters will be buffet­
ed by the expected headwinds 
in 110,000-seat Olympic 
Stadium. 
While the distance runners 
-from 1,500 meters through 
the marathon -should find 
thP conditions ideal, history 
dictates that world records in 
those events will stand. 
"I don't think the times are 
going to be as fast as everyone 
thinks (in the sprints)," said 
Ato Boldon of Trinidad & 
Tobago, the 1996 bronze 
medalist in the 100 and 200, 
who already has competed in 
the stadium. 
"The wind blows almost 
directly down the straight into 
which the 100 meters is run. 
That's not something that 
sprinters love." 
When Greene set the world record of 9.79 seconds at Athens. Greece. last year. the weather was hot and the wind negligible. The same conditions existed when he ran 9.80 in winning the 1999 world cham­pionship later at Seville. Spain. 
When Canada's Donovan 
Bailey set the 100 world record 
of 9.84 in 1996 at the Atlanta 
Games, he also was the benefi­
ciary of warm weather and lit­
tle wind. 
"The times this year don't matter," Boldon said. "You run to win. The Olympics is when time matters least." 
That's what Jones should be thinking. She is facing a her­culean task in trying to win an unprecedented five gold medals and will need to pace herself to remain fit for five events -the 100. 200. 400 relay, 1,600 relay and long jump. 
She has come the closest to breaking FloJo's marks of 
10.49 in the 100 and 21.34 in the 200. Jones· best times are 
10.65 and 21.62. both at alti­tude. Sydney is at sea level, so that will not help her. 
If the weather is cool. "it will have a physical and psycholog­ical effect on the sprinters and jumpers," said Ernie Gregoire, an assistant U.S. women's coach in charge of the long jumpers, triple jumpers and hurdlers. 
"The ballistic athletes 
depend on warm weather," he 
added. 
Include the throwers in the 
group that prefers the warmth. 
said Jerry Quiller. an assistant 
U.S. men's coach responsible for the distance runners from 1,500 meters through 10,000 meters. 
"Sprinters, jumpers and 
throwers don't want to have to 
compete with their sweats on." 
he said. ''The distance guys 
will love the cool weather 
unless it's windy. If it's just 
cool, they'll be fresher after 
running their heats or rounds." 
Despite the gloomy forecast 
for the sprinters and jumpers, 
Gregoire thinks world records 
are possible: 
"When you get in this kind of 
situation and the adrenaline 
starts flowing and there's that 
quest to be No. 1. great things 
happen." he said. 
"Special events bring out special times from special poo­ple." 
U.S. high jumper Kenny Evans doesn't think anything special will occur in his event if the weather isn't warm. 
"In that case, I don't think 
people will jump as high," he 
said. "People will just have to 
tough it out in the cold weath­
er. 
"I don't know of anyone 
breaking the world record 
when it's been cold. I don't 
think anything explosive will 
happen." 
American long jumper Melvin Lister doesn't believe the weather will be a factor. 
"If you're feeling good. the 
record will fall." he said. "If 
not. it won't." 
Abdi Abdirahman. a member of the U.S. 10,000-meter team, said, "It depends on how cold it gets. If it's real cold. it might not help set a world record, but the cold probably will help some people get PRs (personal records) by a couple of sec­onds. 
"I prefer the cooler weather. not cold," he said. 
No matter the weather. dis­tance runners don't often set world records at the Olympks. because most of the races are tactical. 
Of the top performances in races between 1,500 and the marathon. plus the walks. very few came at the games. Going into this year, the highest­standing mark from the Olympics was 27:07.34 by Ethiopia's Haile Gebrselassie in winning the 10,000 meters at Atlanta. and that ranked only 18th. 
Only three other Olympic marks ranked in the top 50 in the 10,000. There were none in the 1,500, 5,000. marathon or the walks, and only one in the 3,000 steeplechase -the then-world record 8:08.02 by Anders Garderud of Sweden in 1976. and that was No. 49 . 
I 

... Ironwood family Dentistry ~-: 271-7500 RUSSELL A MURPHY, DDS 
1639 NORTH IRONWOOD DRIVE 
SUITE 109 

SOUTH BEND. IN 46635 

10% COLLEGE STUDENT DISCOUNT 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 5, 2000 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Griffey's return sparks Reds' victory over Mets 
Associ,1tcd Pres$ 
CINCINNATI, Ohio 
Knn Griffoy Jr. rnturned to 
the lineup and hit his 37th 
honrnr Sunday -a rare left­
handed shot off Al Leiter -as 
the Cincinnati Reds bnat New 
York (1-2. the Mets' fourth con­
Sl'\cutive loss. 
Since catching Atlanta atop 
the NL East, the Mets havn 
dropped five of six, costing 
them a chance lo op1m a lead 
while the Bravf's struggled. 
The Mets. who trail Atlanta by 
ono game, were swept in St. 
Louis, losing thrPe one-run 
games in the lasl at-bat. before 
heading to Cincinnati. 
Mike Piazza wrnt 2-for-:~ 
with a solo homer. his 34th, 
but Lhe rest of thf' Mets' lineup 
managed only, four hits off 
Elmer Dnssr.ns (7-5l and two 
rrlievnrs. 
Thn Heds have gotten hot 
whr.n it no longr.r matters, 
winning nine of 12 since 
falling out of contention in 
thfl NL CP.ntral. 
Leilf\r {14-7). who pitched tlrn Mets to their wild card playoff win in Cincinnati last October, couldn't end their Snptember slump. Leitnr's two-hit, 5-0 shutout last Oct. 4 at C:inNgy Fif>ld stands as the onlv time Cinrinnati has bPrn biankec! in its last 280 games. 
Tim Mets couldn't catch up 
after he gavP up Griffey's 
two-run honwr in the first 
inning. the nrst IPl't-handed 
honwr off Leiter since May 
29. The only other left-han­df'rs to homrr off I.1~iter this season vvere Tony (;wynn {May 23) and Shawn Green (May 29). 
Griffey missed Sunday's g11me because of' a sore hip. Ile wPnt l -l'or-3 with a walk Monday. raising his averagn to a season-high .265. 
Giants 3, Phillies 0 
Buss Ortiz was sent to the bullpen at the All-Star Break to work things out. It was a short stay. After sp11nding I\Xactlv one dav out of the starli,{g rotati,;n, Ortiz has been nearly unb,iatable. 
Ortiz {12-l 0) allow!'d two hils. four walks and struck out l'ivc in <, 1-3 innings to win his seV£\nth consecutive derision as the San Francisco Giants defeated the Philadelphia Phillies. 
The right-handn extended his scoreless streak to 17 innings, daling to the second inning Aug. 25 at Philadelphia. lie hasn't lost since July 29 at Chirago. 
"'I'm confident in my ability and I ncvn r lost that," said Ortiz. "I did los11 a liltle con11­denco in throwing inside early in ttrn ynar and I made too many mistakPs with my f'astball and that killed me. Now I·m able to make my p~tr,hes..and stay ahead of the 
hitters. 
Ortiz was 4-8 when he madn his only relief' appear­ance of thn snason on .July 14, pitching six innings against thB Oakland Athletir.s without allowing an earned run. Ile hasn't looked back since. 
"lle's keeping thr. ball in the ballpark." said Giants' manager Dusty Haker. "In Lhe first hall' he gave up somnthing like 20 or 25 hon11'.rs. You have to rall upon positivn rnsulls you've 
experienced in the past. You just stay after it and keep pushing." 
Cardinals 4, Expos 2 
Pat llentgen tossed seven shutout innings and Edgar Hentcria ripped a three-run trip!P. in the fourth inning, leading the St. Louis Cardinals to victory over the Montreal Expos. 
St. Louis has won five straight games. while the Expos losl for the fifth time in 
six gamos. 
llontgen (14-10) yielded snven hits, walking three and striking out three. 

Dave Veres pitched the final l 1/3 innings for his 25th save. 
Montreal starter Javier Vazquez didn't allow a hit until .1.D Drew singled to lead off the fourth. He then walked Eric Davis, and with two outs, Hay Lankford walked to load Lhe bases. HP.nteria f'ollowed 
-et­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
with a triple, plating all three 
runners for a 3-0 lead. 
Rockies 6, Cubs 2 
Juan Pierre went 5-for-5 and· keyf'd a two-run fifth with the game-tying RBI single and a run scored. leading the Colorado Hockies to victory over the Chicago Cubs in the openrr of a three-gamP. Sf'ries at Coors Field. Todd Walker lrnmered and drove in three runs for the Rockies. who snapped a two-game skid and won for thP. s1wcnth time in their last 10 games. The Cubs· have lost five in a row. 
Todd Hollandsworth also homered for the Rockies, while Todd llelton went O-for-4 and saw his batting average drop to .387. Helton was hitting .397 last WP.ek, but is in a 3­for-20 slump in his last six 
games. 
Brian Rosfl {3-2) earnrd tho win. allowing two runs on seven hits in seven innings. He walked three and struck out a r,areer-high seven. 
The Hockics trailed 2-1 heading to the fifth. but scored twicP. to take the lead for good. Hollandsworth led off' with a walk and stole second with two outs. llfl took third on a balk­by Chicago starter .Ion Lif1ber and scored the tying run on a single by Pierre. 
Pierre then stole second and sr,ornd the go-ahead run on a single to rnnter by Ncifi Perez. 
Walker homArcd in the sixth to extend the Colorado lead to 4-2, then doubled home two runs in the seventh to extend the advantage to 6-2. 
Pirates 12, Dodgers 1 
Jimmy Anderson threw his first complete game and Rrian Giles hit a grand slam, leading the Pittsburgh Pirates to a win over thr Los Angeles Dodgers in the opener of a three-game 
Chicana 2000 
series at Dodger Stadium. Pat 
Meares also homered for the 
Pirates. who used a pair of big 
innings on thr, way Lo their 
fourth straight win. 
The Dodgers had a thrne­game winning streak stopped and lost for only thn fourth timn in their last 15 gamns. 
Anderson 15-8) limited thn Dodgers to just onn run and srattered 10 hits in going the 
distance. 
He walked thrnn and struck out three. plus went 2-for-5 with an HBI at the plate. 
The Pirates scored f1vn in the second inning -all with two outs -to takn control. Mearns started the two-out rally with his l l th homer and Anderson followed with a single. 
Adrian Brown reaclrnd on an infield single and Jason Kendall walked to load the bases for Giles. who conner.tnd for his 32nd homer of thfl sea­son and third earner grand slam. 
Fall Lecture Series 
Virgil Elizondo 
''Guadalupe: Prophet ofa New Humanity'' 
Wednesday, September 6, 7:00 pm, Little Theatre 
Arturo Perez Rodriguez ''Day ofthe Dead --El Dia de los Muertos'' 
Thursday, September 14, 12:20 pm, Stapleton Lounge 
Jesusa Rodriguez ''La,s Posadas --A Pilgrimage to the Inn'' 
Thursday, Sepember 21, 12:20 pm, Stapleton Lounge 
Dominga Zapata 
''Quinceaiieras and the Hispanic Woman in the USA'' 
Thursday, Sepember 28, 12:20 pm, Stapleton Lounge Free, open to Public --Inquiries 284-4636 
g 
CENTER FDR SPIRITUAIJTY SAINT MARY'S COLI.F.GE 

Tuesday, September 5, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
NFL NFL 
Belichick loses second opener 
Associated Press 
FOXBORO, Mass. 
Bifl Bclichkk lost his sea­son opener for thr~ second straight year. Whrther he's an assistant r.oach cir run­ning the whole show. the fePling is the samn. 
Losses hurt. 
"I don't think you fe(d any better when you lose as 

Belichick 
an assis­t a n t co••ch." the l'irst-ycar head coach of thr, Nnw England Patriots said Monday. "I don't think winning as an assistant coarh or a head coach gives you any morn satisfaction. 
"I don't think it makes any differPn<'.e whether you·n~ a playnr. coach. head coach, dPl'cnsiv1: coordinator, what­ever it is. It's all the same scorcrnrd. You're either 0-1 or you're 1-0." 
The Patriots are 0-1 
bccausc they IQ.st at home 
Sunday to Tampa Bay, 21­
I
11111111 d 
Future Lawyer? Invitation to Seniors 

All seniors planning to apply for law school this year are invited to an informational meeting on 
Tuesday, September 5 
131 DeBartolo 
6 p.m. 
Ava Preacher 
Assistant Dean ofArts and Letters and Pre-Law Ad Yisor 
A discussion of all aspects of the application 
process: 
• 
what is included in your application 

• 
preliminary information about personal statements 

• 
and more............................................. . 



C I Ir----------------------~ 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I
I Register in Advance at Rer.Sports I For More Info. Call 1-5100 I Demonstration I Tuesday, September 5, Rockne Rm. 219 6:30PM I I T<?.e-?~ I I www.nd.edu/~recsport I
~----------------------J 
16. 
Bclichkk was 0-1 last sea­son because the Patriots beat the New York Jets, where he handled the defense as assis­tant head coach, 30-28, at the Meadowlands. 
He hopPs not to be 0-2 after they meet again next Monday night at the r--teadowlands. He 'II face the tPam he left .Ian. 4, one dav after being named its head coach, but Belichick isn·t focusing on that bizarre departure. No matter who he's playing, getting his team ready to win is his obsession. 
"It's a big game. It's a divi­sion game on the road and that's what's really impor­tant," he said "Thev're not going to have everybody's personal record in the stand­ings on Monday. Ifs going to be where the Patriots are." 
The game won't have the hype of past meetings when Bill Parcells, who coached the Patriots to the 1997 Super now!, played them as <'.Oa<'.h of the Jets the past three seasons. When Parcells stepped down after last sea­son, Belichick's contract automatically made him the successor. 
Then he quit, saying he had misgivings because the Jets were for sale. NFL corn­mbsi oner Paul Tagliabue and a federal judge said Bclichick couldn't leave. But he went tu the Patriots after they and the Jets worked out a compensation package. 
Now Al Groh, an assistant with 13elichick on Parcells' Patriots staff in 1996, is head coach of the Jets. 
There are plenty of other conne<'.tions. Former Patriots Curtis Martin and Vincent Brisby are with the Jets. Former Jets Otis Smitn and Bobby Hamilton are with the Patriots. 
"It's going to liven it up," said Hamilton, a starting defensive end. "it's going to be a hyped game and it's going to be a fun game to watch on TV." 
Smith, a cornerback picked up when the Jets released him on their final roster cut of the exhibition season, downplayed the importance of Belichick's move from New York to New England. 
"That situation is done with," he said. Belichick is busy with more pressing issues. On Sunday, 
the offensive line allowed six sacks, running backs gained just 25 yards, and the defense failed to stop the Buccaneers in key third-down situations. 
"They're going to cause everybody some problems. They <'.ertainly caused us some," Bclichick said. "There are a lot o!' things we need to gel corrected." 
The Jets began the season with a 20-16 ,-vin at Green Bay. a less talented team than Tampa Bay. Still. the Patriots are the only AFC East team that's not 1-0. 
Now it's their turn to go on the road. but it won't be to a strange place. They play at the Meadowlands every year against a team they're very familiar with. 
JUICY COUTURE
m 
I I 
iET5fYToHAISol/
Ii,: 
Ml!!i!!i !!ilXTt'. 
LACOSTE Fo~ncr-1no 
BCBG 
GUCCI
MAXAZRIA 

PRENC'H CUNNEC TlON
JAMES PF.llSE 
¼ easel
L,O,C, ANGEi E.:S 
ARE YOU A SLAVE TO FASHION? 
Then work for us. We are looking for an outgoing, fashion-conscious girl to represent our e-commerce website at your school. You must be hardworking, self-starting and motivated. Our company carries the best fashions from all lhe best lines. Get paid to wear your favorite clothes. Get clothing discounts on all your favorite brands. Earn commissions. Become part of our national team by emailing us at service@shopbop.com for an applicati~t 
Or call 1.608.255.2570, 
Favre injurs hand in loss to New York 
Associated Press 
GREEN BAY. Wis. 
_Brett favre's attempt to regain his form Just got a little bit hard­er. 
Green Bay coach Mike Sherman said Monday that Favre sprained his right thumb during the Packers' 20-16 loss to the New York Jets on Sunday. 
Thougl1 Sherman said it isn't serious, the injury is yet another blow to a quarterback trying to recover from two sub-p,tr sea­sons. 
favre missed the final three prescason games with tendinitis in his right elbow, and the three­lime MVP played in pain Sunday while competing just 14 of 34 passes for 152 vards. 
Sherman said the thumb injury occurred early in the second quarter when defensive end Shaun Ellis swatted the ball out of Favre's hands. 
Tackle Earl Dotson recovered the fumble, and Favre played the rest of the game. 
"That thumb will not be an issue on this team, and neither will the elbow," Sherman said. "Quarterbacks get hurt in this league." 
Favre went through a light workout at Lambeau Field on Monday with his thumb wrapped securely in bandages. Offensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach Tom Rossley said he isn't sure whether the injury will affect Favre's ability to practice for the upcoming game at Buffalo. 
"He has come through a couple of bumps and bruises before," Rossley said. "You don't start all those games in a row ·without being tough." 
With all the attention focused on Favre's tendinitis-strkken right elbow this season, the balky thumb that hindered him last year was nearly forgotten. 
Last year. a bruised and swollcn thumb contributed to a subpar season in which he threw 23 interceptions and failed to lead Green Bay to the playoffs for the first time in seven sea­sons. 
After t_he Pa<'.kers' loss Sunday, Favre N who has started an NFL-record 126 straight games -conceded he will probably play another season in pain. 
That could set up an interest­ing test of wills between Favre and Sherman. who has pledged to remove Favre from the lineup if the injuries significantly affect his play. 
"I kn ov.· I did n't hurt (the elbow) any worse." Favre said Sunday. "I was able to practice every day last week. I know how it's probably going to feel this week, maybe the rest of the year. 
"l..fclt for the most part I threw the ball with a lot of ve locitv and acn1racy I thought was as· ~lose to normal as possible. It can get better with practice." 
Still, the Packers' offense sput­tered under Favre against New York. 
In the first half, Favre was 4­of-13 for 25 yards, and the Packers who dropped five or six of Favre's passes in the game managed just 55 yards of total offense before halftime. 
"You can't put the blame on Brett," said receiver Antonio Freeman, who dropped two passes. "We couldn't run the ball, so we couldn't help the passing game. If you can't do one, it's hard to do the other." 
Sherman, who has preached a return to fundamental football since replacing Ray Rhodes last winter, was particularly piqued by the drops. 
"Those are definitely catchable balls," Sherman said. "On the film, you see balls bouncing off chests." 
The Packers' offense won't get any relief from its running game any time soon. either. Sherman said Dorsey Levens, who under­went arthroscopic knee surgery during training camp. won't play on the artificial turf at Ralph Wilson Stadium in Buffalo. 
Ahman Green, Levens' backup, played just three weeks after spraining his left knee but was mostly ineffective, gaining 41 yards on nine r.arries and losing one fumble. 
Favre, who gainr,d 13 yards on two scrambles, was the team's second-leading rusher. 
"If we had caught even two of the five drops. we wouldn't be talking about any of this right now," Sherman said. "Right now, (Favre) gives us a chance to win. I don't even think he was at 80 percent, but he'!'i our guy." 
Need Tickets? 
Check out the Observer Classifieds 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 5, 2000 
===--=--=---=-----_---·-----=============-=================================================================================================== 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Cleveland holds onto wild card lead with win over Tampa 
Associated Press 
CLEVFIAND 
Kerrny Lofton's record run­scoring streak came lo an end Monday. but Dave Burba pitr.lrnd 7 2-J strong innings to lrnlp tlrn Clcvdand Indians maintain their AL wild card lead \\ith a !i-1 vic­tory over th,~ Tampa Bay Devil 
Havs. 
1:ofton failed to srore a run for Lim first Lime in I 9 ganrns. l.of'ton wnnt 1-for-5 and rcnmi1wd tit:d with Heel Holfc of tlrn 111:~CJ NP\V York Yankrcs f'or llw major leagu<' record for scoring in IS ronsPcutivP games. 
Thr• fndians rnmain two ganws alwad of Boston and Oakland in llw AI. wild card nu~11. 
Burba { I ]-(J) allowpd one nm and sPvnn hiL-; -thr1\t' to rookin Stnve Cox. ThP righ l-handN stnwk out four and walkr,ct two to bail out a IH'lf'aguerPcl bullpPn. CIPVf'iand usPd Pight pikh<'rs Sunday in a 12-11 win ovf'r Bnltirnorr. in 1:J innings. 
Ttw Indians took a 2-0 IPad in thl' Sl'ro!HI off Albi1• Lop('Z (1I­IOl. With onl' out. IJavid St•gui singl<1d and scort'd on a lripln by Tr·avis Fryman that bouncPd against tlw r.PntPr-f'ir.lcl wall. Fryman s<·on1d wlwn llussPII Branyan groundPd a singl<' to right 
Branvan. HobPrt11 i\lomar. David s;,gui and !\fanny Hamin•z Ntd1 had two of' C!,wP!and's 13 hits, Hamirl'Z f'XtnndPd his hil­ting strnak to a rnrPr•r-high I'J ganw~. 
.lim Thonw's b,L'iPs-loud.-d sin­gle drnv1\ in two runs in Uw snv­
cnth. Segui followPd with an HBI single to make it 5-0. 
Cox hit his ninth homer with two outs in the l!ighth to spoil Burba's bid !'or his first shutout in more than live years. 
Lopez allowed two runs and eight hits in thror innings. Thi' right-hander left with a strainPd left calf and fell to 0-2 with a 
2. l(i EH/\ in sovf'n rarnnr out­ings against his former team. 
Lopez had pitched five or more innings in all 18 of' his pre­vious starts 
Red Sox 5, Mariners 1 
l'Pdro Martinez strurk ouL 11 
and didn't hit anybody -and Nomar Carciaparra snapped a I ;,-game BBi slump as the lluston Hrd Sox C('l<\brated Carlton Fisk day by br.ating the SeattiP Mariners. 
Making his f'irst slarl sine(' sparking last Tue1:;day·s brawl with Tampa Hay by hitting the first battr1r of the game. Martirwz (16-41 allow,•d six hits and one walk in eight inning-s bl'f'on' Dt-rek l.owr, pitched th<' ninth. 
Thn Heel Sox rPtirnd Fisk's No. 27 in a prcganH' ceremony, but Lim only one who cl1\arcd thr Grnen Monst<>r wits Mib1 CamPron. who hil a solo homPr in tlrn seventh to give lhP Mariners th11ir onlv run. 
Still. it didn't ·mako up for Canwron 's blundr,r in th<' third. wlwn lw ft>ll whilP barking up to ralch .Josn Olforman's bases­loac!Pd fly ball. Tlw triplP op(•ned the gatPs f'or Boston's five-run inning and turnPd Jamin Moynr ( l 1-'J) into a hard-luck los(~r. 
Moyer allowed four earned runs on !'ive hits in seven innings, walking two and strik­ing out five as the Mariners lost for thr 16th timr' in 21 games. He was matching Martinez until Donnie Sadler reached with one out in the third •when first basr­man John Olerud couldn't han­dle a grounder. 
Manny Alexander singled and Darren Lfnvis walked before Offerman hit a deep 11y to cen­ter. Camf'ron drif'ted back and nppeared to hr. ready to catrh thn ball when he slipped and !'ell on his backside. kicking up a big rhunk of turf on his wav down. The runners, who h;1d bcnn holding. formt~d a tralllc jam as they took ofTfor tht\ platP. 
SadlHr a:nd Aloxanc.lc1r scored easilv. but Lowis arrivnd at the sam,; time as the throw. Catc:hl'r Dan Wilson, bracing himsnlf' f'or a collision. let the ball bounce by him as hn blocknd the plate; Lcnvis slid short and kno<'knd Wilson back, but thPn got up and easily touched home tu make it 3-0. 
Carl Everrtt doublNI to score Offl·rman -his 100th IWI ol' the s,,ason. Garriaparra. who last drove in a run on Aug. 1!i. drib­bird one through the right siclli of the inf'inld to sco1·e EvC'retL and make it 5-0. 
Athletics 10, Blue Jays O 
David Wnlls' bid for 20 wins was temporarily dPrailed by Mike Stanley and th<' Oakland .\thlNics. 
Stanley went 5-f'or-:i with livn Hills and Oakland scorPd scvnn runs in the lirsl lwo innings to knock out Wnlls in a win ovPr the Toronto Blue Jays. 
The Athletics. who f1ntcred tho day 2 1/2 games behind Seattle in the i\L Wrst. outhit the Blue J,ays 19-2 and have won ninr. of' their last 10 games at SkyDome. 
The Blue Jays lost thrPn of' four to Oakland. falling to fourth place in the AL wild card race. 
Stanlr,y nntrrnd Urn gamr in a 3-l'or-14 slump. Ile put that t.o an end quickly. He hit a two-run doublP in tlrn first, a two-run single in the second. singled in tho fourth and sixth. and hit. his Uth homer off [\lark Cuthrie in the eighth. 
Wells (l 9-6) had pitched 19 sron~lt\SS innings bPl<ire Oakland scored fivo runs in Lhn first on Stanley's two-nrn doubln. BPn GriPVt:'s two-run horner and Miguel TPjada's solo shot. It was Tnjada's 24th honwr. setting a franchisP record for homn runs by a shortstop, 
i\f'tcr Tl•rrance Long. Handy Vnlarde and Jason Giambi hit consecutive singles in the SPr­ond. Stanlny hit his two-run sin­g!,,. Long tied his carcN high wilh four hits. including a two­run homer in thP sev,1nth. 
Wells (1 'J-6) g-avfl up scvPn r u n s an d n in n hils in 1 I -3 innings. 
Hookie Barry Zito {3-'.~) didn't allow a hit until DavP· Martinnz singled with one out in the fourth ThP ]pft-handPr ailowNJ two hits and six vvalks in 6 2-:-3 innings. 
The Athletics pitchPd tlwir seventh shutout of the season dnspite walking nirw batlprs and hilling on(' baltr.r with a pitch. 
The Blue .Jays. who lnad tlrn majors with 221 hom1\rs. fail!\d to homer for tho fourth straight game. It's the first linw Toronto has bcon held without a homer in four straight games this s11a­
so11. 
Oakland starti;rs havn allownd two earned runs in tlrnir last 21 2-J innings. Gil l len1dia pitdwd 
7 1-3 scorPlnss innings Saturday. and Tim lludson allowed two «'arncd runs in 7 2­3 innings Sunday. 
Tigers 5, Angels 0 
II id Po Nomo pi tclwd "igh l shutout innings as tlrn Dl'troit Tignrs drnppnd /\rrnlwim bnlow 
.SOO by beating the J\ng1•ls. Damion EaslPV was :1-l'or-:i with two doublns 1:nd thrcc BB!s l'or tlrn TigNs, who lmvP won l'our of livn and rnmairwd five ganws b,,hind ClnvC'land. which !Pads llw :\L wild-card ra1·<'. 
Thn Angels lfiS-(,9) w,•nt undPr .:iOO l'or tlw first timP sine!' llwv Wl'rP 20-21 011 Mav 
18. ThPy'vp lost liw straight an;l ar1• (1 1/2 ganws lwhind 
CIPvt~land. 
Nomo ((,-11 l, gaw up 11w hits and strurk out SPVt'n with two walks to win f'or tlw third tinw in his last !'our di>rision~. IIP hasn"t pilcht>d a shutout sincP SPptPmb11r 19()(, wlwn. whilP pitching l'or Los AngPIPs. hP t.hr1'w a no-hit.tN at Colorado's Coors FiPld. 
Srntt Karl (0-1) lost in his sPr­
o ncl start sinc1• thP AngPls acq u irnd hi 111 Aug. ~ 2 from Colorado, alh>wing liw runs ­four narrwd -and 11i1w hits in :i 2-:{ innings. 
This is your opportunity to meet with 20 ofthe hottest vendors in town! 
Representativesfrom t-shirt companies, travel, printing, photographers, DJ's and other companies will be in attendance marketing their services to your group. 
IIENDORFAIRWillBEHERETOMORROW! 
e 
'
W11dn11sda1, SIJPIIJRlbllr6 . 
5:30Pll-1:30PM lalortURIJBallroom 
DOIITMISS/Tl 
FYI! Food Service Training will be offered at 5:00 PM in Montgoniery Theater. 
-------, 
I I 
Page 25 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT September 5, 2000 
August 28-September 18 103 Hesburgh Library 
Freshmen Retreat #30 Sign-up Targeted Dorms: Badin, Keenan, Lewis, O'Neill, Pasquerilla East, St. Edward's, Morrissey, Walsh, and Zahm 
Tuesday, September 5, 7:00 p.m. Siegfried Hall Chapel 
Confirmation-Information Session for Candidates 
Tuesday, September 5, 8:00 p.m. Siegfried Hall Chapel 
Confirmation-Inf orn1ation Session for Sponsors 
Tuesday, September 5, 8:00 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom 
"Fiesta de Bienvenida" 
Wednesday. September 6, 10:00 pm 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Lector Workshop 
Wednesday, September 6, 10:00 pm 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Thursday.September 7, Freshmen-5:00 p.m. & Upperclassmen-5:45 p.m. Lafortune Ballroom 
Pachanga'00 
Sunday.September 10. 1 :00 p.m. 
ND Room, Lafortune Student Center 
RCIA: Information Sessions for 
Candidates and Sponsors 
Sunday, September 10. 1:30 p.m. 
Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
Spanish Mass 
Presider: Rev. Patrick Neary, csc 
Sunday. September 10, 2:30 pm 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Eucharistic Minister Workshop 
Sunday, September 10. 8:00 pm 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Lector Workshop 

112 Badin Half 631-5242 
103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 
email ministry.1@nd.edu 
web www.nd.edu/~ ministry coming soon Coleman-Morse Center 

'f@C!h@N:'3@ .00 
u(!)Ire the p@r't;1 Q9S ve S"t®rt 09 r-cev 71sa9rI 
Le09rN wh09t ~P?.pijS 'MtNtstr~ 
h09s t® ®tfer ~tix® stlJdet\ts/ 

Thurid09;f, ~epter-iDer 7. 2.000 
B:00 p.n t® 7:30 p,n 
f1rtt 1ea9r 8tudarc'ts 5:00 p,FL tlpparcIQl,)i3J>is:rc B:215 p,n 
Interested in Becoming Catholic? 

RCIA Information Sessions -­
for all interested Candidates Sunday, September 10 from 1-2 p.m. LaFortune's Notre Dame Room 
Would you like to Sponsor someone who Is thinking about becoming Catholic? 
Info Session for Sponsors: Sunday, September 1 7 from 1-2 p.m. LaFortune's Notre Dame Room 
Candidates contact Tami Schmitz@ 1-3016 Sponsors contact Justin Dunn @ 1-3390 
Prayer &Discussion 
Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual Students and their Friends. 
Meet weekly on Wednesday Night for discussion andprayer. 
Coming Soon: Sixth Annual Retreat November 17th-18th. 
For more information, please contact: Tami Schmitz 1-3016 Schmitz.8@nd.edu Tom Doyle,C.S.C. 1-4112 Doyle.22@nd.edu 

.l"rr '\ 
1
Mark Your Calendar 'i 
Do you want to help with 
Ministries at the Basilica? 
Eucharistic Minister Workshop: Sunday, September 10th@ 2:30 p.m. 
Lector Workshop: Wednesday, September 6th@ 10 p.m. Sunday, September 10th@ 8 p.m. 
All workshops will be held in the Basilica for more info, call Steve Camilleri@ 631-6282 
,----------------------------------~­
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 5, 2000 
NFL 
Warner throW"s past Broncos in Rams' 41-36 victory 
Associ•ted Press 
~ u rt War Ill' r m us t hav~ though l hP was bac·k in thn :\rPna hwtbalI I.PaguP. 
I.as! y1•ar·s rPgular-sPason and SupPr Bowl MVP ope1wd his Sl'!"OIHI sPason as a startPr by thrnwing J'or 441 yards and thr1'I' lourhclowns as St. Louis lllH'lll'd dl'fl'llSI' or its NFL tillP with a 41-:H, victory ovnr lknv«'r on Monday night. 
Tlw !!ams havl' sp,,nd ciwry­wht>rt>, and Tony llonrn had pl1'nty 11f it on this 45-yard punt rl'lurn in tlw lirst quartPr Munday night. 
"\VI' f"PPI we• nLn scorn anv t im " w n t o u r h t h " b a 11. :. Wanwr said. "Thi' last drivP was no dilT1•rPnt." 
Thal last drivP. 7:i yards in Pight plays. was madc-nPres­sarv bv Olli' of \VarnPr's thrnn int;•r/Pplions. whic·h was n•tunwd 32 vards for a sron' by l)pnvnr's 'i'1•1TPll BurklPy. It g.tv,• D,•nv<'I'. which trnilnd :{5­20 lat,. in th<' third quartPr. a :H,-J:i IPad. 
But Warn<'r thPn !Pd a 75­yard drivn rappPd by HobPrl llolrombP's 1-vard TD run wi lh 2: :i8 IPl:1. And tlu· dr.t'Pnsl', shrPddPd all ganw by Brian <;ririsP, finallv asserted itself with saf'ks by l)'Marco Farr and Kevin Curter. 
"Why am wn always so drn~ nwtic"" asknd Carter in a rnf­nrnncl' t.o last January's Supnr Bowl. \-vlwn Miki' .fo1ws· tackle stoppPc! TPnIH\SSPP's Ktwin Dyson a yard short ol' thn tying touchdown on thP ganw's f'inal play. 
It was just what thc NFL wantl'd f'or l)pnnis Millnr's lirst official Monday night lnlP­cast: a shootout in St. Louis. 
"This was a ganw whern if' you likP o/Tc•nsl'. il was fun to watrh." llPllVl'r roarh Miki\ Shanahan said ...If you liked dl'i'Pnsn. you pirkPd thn wrong OIW to go lo." 
In addit.ion to the !atr, gnmn lrnroics. Az-Zahir llakim wnnt 86 yards on a punt rnlurn and took a short pass from Warner 80 yards !'or anothl'r score. WarnPr, who ·was 25-of-:15, also had a 72-yard TD pass to Marshall Faulk on the samP. pattnrn on which Hakim 
University of Notre Dame International 
Study Program 
in 
scored bctwnen them. the two passes roverP.d pr.rhaps 20 yards total latPrally and tho rt'cniv!'rs did the rest. 
The Broncos were ,rnarlv as c·l'fecliv<' on off<'nso. · 
Despit<1 losing running bark T<·rrell Davis lo a twisted left ankl11 in the s11ccrnd quarter. thl' Broncos moved the ball almost as wnll as tho Hams although nol as quickly. Olandis (;ary n•placecl Davis and gainnd 80 yards in I:{ car­riPs. 
Cri!'St', who was 19-of-28 for :rn7 yards. threw, J'or two TDs and ran l'or a third. 
"Any ti nw you com P in to thc•ir back vard and scorP. some points ind move thn ball. you're doing f'inn." Shan,Lhan said. 
Both leams scorPd on all ol' thPir possessions in thP serond quart1•r until hall'linw stoppP.d tlw Broncos. 
And na<'h srored again in the first. two seriPs of tlw second hall'. making it six Sf'orcs in SPVl'n possPssions with thP dif'­!'PnincP tlw TIJs sc:ornd by the Bams against f'iPld goals by the Broncos. In all. tl10rc were scorns on Pi){ht of' IO posses­sions by both tPams. 
The win was the !'irst as a head coach f'or MikP. Martz. who was St. Louis' offensive coordinator last season and took over wlrnn Dick Vermcil rntired al"tPr tlrn Hams beat Tenn11sst'e in last .January's Super Bowl. 
Martz took Urn blamn for the in tnrccption. "It was my call," he said. "We almost blew it. 
FortunatPlv.  we  wen~  able to  
comn  back and  put it in  tlrn  
end zonP.  "  

This was a shootout from the start. 
DenvP.r. roming ol'f a 6-10 season al'ter winning con­sPcutivn Super Bowls. made it look 1'asy on its first pos­session. going 59 yards in just. six plays to takP a 7-0 ltrn cl o n G r i <' s e ' s 8 •yard bootleg. Davis had a 12-yard run on that series and CriesP completed passes rif 1() and 18 yards to Hod Smith and Duane Carswell. 
Ilakim ti!'d it with his 86­yard r!'turn which hci took 

straight up Urn field and out­ran everyone. 
.Jason Elam's 32-yard field goal 1 :18 into the second quarter gave the Broncos a 10-7 lead. But the Hams came bark with a nino-play, 89-yard drive capped by Faulk's 5-yard TD run. 
Then, at'Ler Griese hit Smith on a slant for a 25-yard score, the Hams came right back. going 77 yards on nine plays capped by Warner's 7-yard TD pass to Hicky Pror,hl and it 
was 21-17 St. Louis at the half. 
Elam's 38-yard field goal on the first series or the third quarter cut the Hams' lead to 21-20. 
It was quickly 28-20. 
On the serond play after the kickoff. Warner threw the ball in the !'lat to Faulk who dodg1!d two tacklers and took the ball 72 yards to the rrnd zone. 
But Griese came right back. driving the Broncos 67 yards 
cappcd by a 7-yard TD pass to Desmond Clark. Elam's 35-yardPI' rnadn il 35-30. Then came the final frantic shootout. 
"It's the toughnst l'irst hall' I've ever had in my lif"n," said Denver linebacker Bill ltomanowski. who is in his 1 3th season . "WIm n you · n1 own offputs up 3(1 points. I don't rarP if you're~ playing thn NFC Pro Bowl team. you'vp got to win it." 
The Lowest Priced 
800MHz 

INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA 
2001 -2002 ACA.DEiHIC YEAR 
INFOR\.IA TIONAL MEETI'.\G Professor Hannelore Weber Campus Coordinator 
Thursday September 7, 2000 
4:30PM 
Room 217 DeBartolo 
Appllc•tloo Oeddline l:Z/1/00 
• Intel• Pentium• Ill processor 
• 800 MHi 
• 
14.1' XGAActive Matrix Color Display 

• 
64 MB SORAM. upgrade to 256 MB 

• 
6 GB Ultra OMA Hard Drive 

• 
56k' Capable v.90 Internal Fax/Modem 

• 
6x DVD-ROM Drive built-in. no need to swap 

• 
3.5' Floppy Disk Drive. built-in 

• 
Integrated Dual-Button Touchpad 

• 
Kensington lock support 

• 
1 Year Limited Extendable Warranty 

• 
Microsolt Windows• 98 Second Edition. pre-installed 


See our wetJSJll) ror a complete list of specs. 
How the "Offar Code" gives you Extra Savings! 
From lime to time, we will offer ·spe­cials' using an OHer Code. Add ywr coae oo oor M!bs,re hMlepage shown oore a-id '/OU'll liril !O ihe Willllool< Si 800 MHz, DVD for S1999' Order"°" at 

oww.w111'001ccom. Oonl wail - order  Lllolc h1r ,,,. Oftsr  
today! Valid on woo onler• only.  Code to,:at/M on  
ourwebsn.l  

l!,ctra Saving• u•ing your
IOffer Code 1•1.1nn9·.. 
Web
UNTDS .:,.:,: 8:-.1:rs 
Current 800 MHz SI model avaolable by phone !or S2399. 

Notebook in Aanerica~ 
Back to School, Back to Work! 
Start off right with this NEW WinBook Si. It's a full-featured notebook from the com­pany that repeatedly brings you value priced notebooks. We have won over 200 Awards since 1993! 
Compare our 800 MHz notebook to the competition and you'll see what a great notebook this can be for you! Use your Internet Offer Code and visit our website today! 
Intel• Pentharn• Ill proce ¦aor 
750 MHz  750 MHz  700 MHz  900 MHz  
14.1" Tn  14.r TFT  14,1" TFT  14,1' )(QA  
2xAGP  2xAGP  2xAGP  2xAGP  
RAM  64MB  64MB  64MB  64 MB  
Hem Drive  6GB  6GB  12GB  6GB  
DVD-ROM  6X  6X  ex  &X  
Modem  56kl\,.90  561</V.90  56k/v.90  561</V.90  
3.5" Orive  Yes  Yeo  Yes  Yes  
Free Internet  No  No  No  Yes  
Price  $3499  $3297  $2648  $1999  

U#llledrltflfl 
Dtt•rl M•r tupl,. Ill •nr tllnll. 
• conf1gurdr.ons BflrJ pt/CSS Srtl bllSBCI on 8 
$1199 
800-211-6956 

Dreier Online .at: ,. b k
www.w1n oo .com 
l\1iiiif11,J~
Critically Proven. 
Tuesday, September 5, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
Battle 
continued from page 32 
rnn<·11rns. Nc;braska openr,d its srason on Saturday with a rrsounding 49-13 win over San .los<' Statr. Led by Dan J\.lnxand0.r's 208 vards, the Cornhuskrrs' rushing offense gainnd :iO:i yards on 60 calTiPs. ()uar!Prbark Erk Crourh strug­glr.d. <·omplPling 4 of 10 passes and throwing two intPrcPptions hut tlw junior from Omaha ruslwd for 57 yards on tho ground. 
But tlw Nebraska dofi,nsi, may posr an cvrn greater chal­lrng<' for Battin and company. Tlw unit fraturns middle line­backPr Carlos Polk. a Butkus /\ward candidate and corner­back Kcvuo Cravr.r. a Jim Thorpl' a~ard nominee. While their gam11 plan is obviously set on the Cornhuskers this week, thP Irish also devoted time dur­ing prcsl\ason camp analyzing tlw N,~braska defense. 
"Thry give you so many crazy-looking deals with the fronts. linrbackers. the blitzes," Batt.Ir said. "They do a great job ol' disguising a lot of things." 
BattlP's numbers (10 of 16 passing for 165 yards and two touchdowns and :iO vards rush­ing! in his first co.llPge start hr.Jped disprove the "r.an't pass" mentality. But, in ord,ir to shed that image. Battle nneds to build on the strong opening season performance. 
To rountnrattack Nebraska's swarming. aggressive defense and help his quarterback, l>aviP plans to continue spread­ing thP passing game around among the tight ends, running backs and rrccivers. Against tlw t\ggiPs. six differrnt n•cpivcrs caught passes, includ­ing fullback Tom Lopienski and tight ends Jabari Hollo"vay and Dan O'Lpary. 
"It was kind of surprising to s<'P l.opicnski go to tlin l'lat. 

McVoy 
continued from page 32 
support is thanks to the efforts of a fantastic athlet­ic director and her staff who have been working to 
present enthusiasm, unity, and pride to the entire Saint Mary's community. 
Last year, Kachmarik. with the help of assistant athletic director Gretchen Hildebrandt, worked out the beginnings of a new kind of Saint Mary's stu­dent, one who was aware of her mind, her spirit, and her body. 
This year. with the arrival of Sports Information Director Suzanne Smith, Kachmarik and Hildebrandt have taken those beginnings to a new level. 
ln a recPnt interview, Kachmarik said, "We're really trying to get a mes­sage out. It's not about one aspect of education." 
So Kachmarik and Hildebrandt are beginning an education on the courts. 
Starting this year, the newly formed Saint Mary's cheerleading squad will be cheering at all home bas­ketball games and next year Hildebrandt and Kachmarik are looking at having the squad at volley­ball and soccer games. 
It is truly the advent of a new Saint Mary's student. Of course, now that Kachmarik and Hildebrandt have put the ball in our court -and lit­erally the students have to give back. It's time to sup­
Arnaz Battle led the Irish Saturday with two touchdown passes, 10 completions for 165 yards 
and 50 yards rushing.  port the cheerleaders and  
the teams they support. 
r.atch two big ones for me and  Battle will watch  more  film,  some encouragement.  
turn them up field," Battle said.  take snaps against a Nebraska­ And if Jackson had fallen out  The views expressed in  
"It just goes to show the type of  style defense in practice. and,  of bounds last year''  this column are those ofthe  
ath lctr,s wr, have."  like he did last Friday, Battle  "I would have grabbed him,"  author and not necessarily  
In preparation !'or Nebraska,  will call Jarious Jackson for  Battle said.  tlwse of The Obser11er.  

International Summer Service Leaming Program Year 2001 
Cambodia Halll 
KHya 
ISSLP is an's-week community based summer service-learning course where students work in one of twelve countries around the world with organizations and ministries meeting the needs of the poor and marginalized. Includes: Travel Expenses, $1,700 Tuition Scholarship, 
3.0 credit Theology course, Preparation & Re-entry Classes. 
Qualified candidates must have strong conversational skills for Spanish speaking sites and previous experience in service-learning. 
Information  At the Center for Social Concerns  
~  Thursday, September 14, 6:00pm  
Tuesday, September 26, 6:00pm  
Sunday, October 8, 6:00pm  
Applications?  Available at the Center for Social Concerns  
Deadlines?  Due Wednesday, November ll'  
Questions'  Call the ISSlP Director, or Andrea Mechenbier  
or Dawn Lardner at 631-5293  
tlli 
CI 10 f  I•  IO' Cl 11  
SOCIAL  
CONCERNS  

BEST BUDDIES INFO 
louadot 11 lal'fador 
MEETING 
Hondu,a, lndla 
fflHlc;o Uganda 
Tonight, 8-9pm in the CSC loungel ~{§~'tr ~l1/J@@O~~® 

Come find out what it's all aboutl 
Your next Friend might just be 
your Best Buddy/I 
Questions?? Call Mimi at 251-1093 

Buy /Sell/Trade 
Nebraska Wanted 
Preferred Tickets 
234-5650 

page 28 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 5. 2000 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Murphy learns about more than basketball in Hawaii 

"I had said we had the best defensive
Associated Press 
group since I've been here," Toledo 
said. "They didn't score any points on 
I.OS ANGELES our defense in the second half. Five 
The broad smile UCLA coach Bob times, Wll went three plays and out (on Toledo displayt>d Monday had probably defense). One time. we went two plays be1m in place for nearly 48 hours -and recovered a fumble. evcr since the Bruins completed a domi­"Offensively, we controllr,d the clock. nating 35-24 virtory over Alabama. That's something I wanted to do. I think 
I le said it wa,; about to bn replarPd by the conditioning really showed. Our a more sPrious look. offensive line. our tight ends. our f'ull­
"They key thing now is we put it backs, we were knocking guys off the bPhind us," To!Pdo s;lid ball. They wen~ very aftpr spPaking in glow­physical. (0eShaun) ing terms ol' the Bruins· "The poll thing really Foster was very effort against Urn physical."
baffles me. I'm pleased
Crimson Tid(1. roster, plagued
we moved up in the rank­
"We worked too hard by a sprained ankle to not m1joy th11 victo­ings, but are you going much of l,L'it sea'ion. ry," Toledo said. "It's when he gained,
on last year or are you 
my job now to make only 375 yards. had
going on this year?"
surn wn put it behind a career-high 187 us, starting with a yards on a sr,hool Warn mneling ,ll 3 record-tying 42 r.;ir­
Bob Toledo 
o'dork todav." ries against
UCLA head coach 
Unrnnkl'd nntering Alabama. S1tturcJay·s opl'tH'r al "The impressive tlw HosP Bowl, UC:L\ is thing is he had 105 No. Hi in this wnek's Associated l'rnss YAC yards -yards after contact," poll. To]Pdo said. 
Alabumu is 13Lh. down l'rom No. 3. When asked about roster's hciavy 
"Thn pill! thing rnally baff11's nm," work load, Toledo smiled and said: Tolr•do admittPd 'Tm plt'as('(! wr "That was a piece of cakP comparnd to movml up in tlw rankings. but am you what hn did in high school. lit~ is physi­going on I.1st y(•ar. or nrn you going on cally rnp,tble of doing that. I don't par­Lhis vc~ar'? ticularly want him to carry the ball 42 
"WhtHl you beat somnbody, you times a game. ff that's what we need to should b(' rnnk,icf ahPad of' thnm." do_, 11;:tYbe I'll give him two scholar­
Thn Bruins rolled up 3()6 yards in sh1ps. total ofTPnse against a def'f'nse that Foster said he was a little sore allow1·d an average of' 100 yards less Sunday, but felt line Monday. last season. Thn Crimson Tide. mcan­"1 lnwever many times thfly 11,;;k mr. to whill!, g11.in1•d 265 yards against VCIA. carry the ball, I'll carry it," said Foster, which ~ave up 444.6 yards p(ir game who recallPd carrying the ball 44 times last yrar. once in high school. 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN fuso.iate Sports Editor 
It takes more than the average Jon to blow by All-AmPrican basketball player Troy Murphy. 
Somehodv like the 1998-1) 1) NBA Hooki1' of the Year Vince Carter, for instance. 
"I ended up covering him !Carh~rl in one of' tlH\ s\·.rimmages," Murphy said. "I've never felt so vulnerablo in my lirn. It was kind of' like pick your poison with him -he'll either pull up and shoot over you or go around you and dunk. Unfortunately he dunked on me a rou­ple of times." 
Murphy was one of 12 collegiat(\ play­\HS picked to play on a U.S. Men's Select team that compotcd in llawaii Saturday against the U.S. Olympic 
team. 
The Olympic Dream Team Ill defeated the collegians squarely 111-74. leaving a big impression on its opponents. 
Murphy, who scored four points and pulled down three rebounds in thn exhibit.ion game. round himsclr in awn of' Carter's athleticism and Alonzo 
Mourning's siz1-1. What impressed him even morn was tht:~ NBA players' work ethic. 
"Thesf' guys are making 14. 15 mil­lion dollars a year, and then at the Pnd or practice they run sprints," Murphy said. "Ray Allen is making 8 million dollars a year and shooting jump shots at the end of' practice. Alonzo Mourning is running sprints long after everybody else has gone home." 
The constant dedication to improve and stay on top of their game struck Murphy as the biggest lesson of the trip. 
"Those guys havr, madc it," the junior power forward said. "Yet thc)y continu­
ally want to gr.t bnttr.r. Thny'rn not sat­
ist'i<'d. That sticks with me." 
Dream 'foam III ran thr. gamut in its responsn to thn NCAA playPrs. 
Whil<' some took limn out of tlwir sclrnduk to pass on a r,•w pointnrs to th<' collPgians. otlrnrs looked on it as their duty to put tlrnir youngr•r rnuntt•r­parts in their plac11s. 
"Sorrw of' thr.m kind of' saw it as a ritn of pa:c,sag-c. to show us that I.hey wc•n~ still the guys that had to h<' twatPn," Murphy said. "Thnrn W(\l'n a (:oupln guys, though, Hay Allnn and Vin BakPr, who wr.nt out or thnir way to gnt to knovv me and hnlp me out." 
Although guys lih Murphy, Duke's Shan<' Battier and .Jason Williams, Maryland's T<'rPnc,i Morris and Jowa Statr.'s Jamal TinslPv, all nwmbPrs of' the Snlr.ct team, an; tlw nlitc among r.1Jllnge playfirs. they canw in at a dis­advantage. 
Not only did they hav,~ less rxp<'ri­cncn, they lacked tinrn playing tog!'lhl'r to form a team and !Pam plays. 
On the hard wood, tlin Se I net tnam couldn't compcti\ with tlw NBA playPrs yet. OIT the court. tlw guys got to know oach 01.hr-r and r.njoy Hawaii at thn same timn. 
"We went snorknling onP day." Murphy said. "But they gav<' us l'ish food Lo attract tlw fish. and W<' nnd<'d up throwing the fish rood on each other instnad of' in tlw watPr. So that attract­ed the fish real clos<'. and WI\ didn't last too long." 
Back on campus. Murphy values tlw chance to mfl<'l his rhildhood lwrofls race to face~. 
"It was great. l'vr. got pictur<'s up on rn y wa I l in m y d O r Ill r () () m () r l h () sI\ guys," Murphy said. "It's an nxperience that I'll cherish ror a long. long tinw." 
KELLOGG 
INSTITUTE 
Interested in learning more about internships and grants for next summer? Come to our roundtable featuring returnees from all over the world. 
LAASP Internship and Summer Research Experiences 2000 
Tonio Buonassisi  Kyle Ledbetter  
The Nature Conservancy, Arlington  Washington Office on Latin America  
Kevin Dunn  Katie McKenna  
Woodrow Wilson Center &OAS  Foreign TV.Com, Mexico City  
Maria Christina Feilmeyer  Maureen Rodgers  
Research, Kenya  Research, Argentina  
Lindsay Frank  Ken Seifert  
Minnesota Advocates for Human Rights  Center for Concern  
Molly Kinder  Anthony Sieh  
Research, Chile  The Nature Conservancy, Brasflia  
Anne Kordenbrock  Karen Weiner  
Operation Crossroads Africa, Kenya  Sisters of Suyapa, Honduras  

Thursday, September 7, 2000 
5:30 pm C-103 Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
Refreshments will be served after the presentation. 
"•-·--------------------·---------------__ J 
Soccer 
continued from page 32 
maintain tl1r srordPss tir. 
Nrithn tnam was able to 1·0111!' up \\'itl1 mud1 offr•nsr in th<' two ov,,rtimc sessions. and thn ganrn <'ndrd wiLhout a goal. 
i\v('rv ,,vas impn·ssed with his tPiun's dl~pth. as th0,y plc1.y,\d t,10 uvcrtinws in the scorrhing clrsert hont. 
"On Sunday wr playrd 18 playrrs. That shows trrnwn­dous dnpth," said ,\very. "Wr didn't mincP meat whPn tlrn guys ranw in off Llw brnc·h. w,,'rc reallv Pxritrd about how dP«'P oui· bl't1C'h is." 
l·riday's ganw against Nrw ~1,·xico w,1s quite irnprnssivr on both rnds of thr !kid. The offnnsP put tlw Irish ahead 1\arlv as S1\ nior Hnggi(' McKi1ight wrts f'ouled in thP pPnally box. As M<"Knight dribhkd Llw ball into Llw box. a IDbo dE'f'rndrr nrnw up and ta<"klPd him f'ro111 tl11' sid11. ClassmaLP Griflin I lov..ard pul tlw prnalty kick past the goal­kcPp1'r for thP first Irish tally of' tlw dav. 
Tlw g,;,tl \\as a can'1'r f1rst for lloward. who had just s1'v1·n ganws playnd coming into tlw sPason. I[oward crnd­its McKnight for tlw opportu­nity. "It was a pPnalty kkk." said lloward. '"HpggiP 1\frKnighl did·a!I thP hard work." 
T!w Irish addPd an insur­aJH'P goal lalP in thn ganw as r·rPshman l)pvon l'rPscod sron'cl u n assistPd with 10:06. rPmaining. Th<' goal was... l'rPsrod's first n'gular season In the season opener. it was srorP. al'!cr s1·oring onrP in clefnnsn that proved to be thr 
tlw presPason. t,\am's strength. Tait saw the 
-----------------------------, 

Exploring the Future of Business 
A seminar to celebrate the naming of the Mendoza College of Business Speakers: Dr. Cheryl Shavers, Under Secretary of Commerce for Technology Dan Warmenhoven, CEO, Network Appliance 
Friday, September 8, 2000 I :30 -3:30 p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
Faculty, Staff and Students Welcome 
ND
'' ::..:~\•;,11:y::l·~::~1,• 01t:-I";.."! 
Mendoz:ac.,BegeofBusinesa 

Check out The Observer onlineat 
www.nd.edu/,.._observer. 
All currentjuniors are invited to attend an in­formational meeting on the 
TRUMAN SCHOLARSHIP 
Tuesday, September 5 217 DeBartolo 4p.m. 
The TrumanScholarship is amerit-based $30,000 scholarship awarded to students who plan to pursue careers in government or elsewhere in public service and wish to attend graduate or professional school to help prepare for their careers. Students who are interested but can• not attend should contactAva Preacher by e-mail at Preacher.I@nd.edu 
·-· -· 
-------------------------------------------------------, 
Tuesday, Septt'mher 5, 2000 The Obsm,er . SPORTS page 29 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Tait earns conference accolades 
Special to The Observer 
Goalkeeper Greg Tait. from Fayrttevillr, N.Y. was namfld the Big East Goalkeeper of the Wrck for thr first week of' thr. season. 
lie posted shutouts in his first two collrgiatr starts at thr UNLV Fila/Snickers Hebel Classic in Las Vegas, Nev. over the wNikend. Tlrn Notre Damn sophomorl' earns the award for the first time in his career aflc'r helping thP Irish nrnn's soccer team to a 1-0-1 record in the two ganrns. 
Tait playPd in just thrc1) games as a freshman and logged only 35:30 minutes of action until this weekend's tournamrnt. In the HrbPI Classic. Tait played all 210 minutes of both contP.sts and registrred nine savrs. IIr was named Most Valuable Player of' the tournament after making five saves against the Lobos and four against UNLV. 
The Irish. undPr f'irst-\·nar head coach Chris Appk r<)turn to action on Wrdnrsclay. SPpt. 6 when thry host Bradlry in the home opener at Alumni Field. Notre Dame plays its BIG EAST opener on Saturday. Sept. 9 at 1 :00 p.m. at Boston College. 
VOLLEYBALL 
Big East honors Boylan 
Special to The Observer 
Senior Denise Boylan was named Big East Player of the Week on Monday. The Irish setter, who was selected as .the 2000 preseason Big East Player of the Year, helped Notre Dame team win three matches during the Shamrock Invitational over 
~ 
the weekend. The Irish defeated Fairfield in three games. rallied for a five­· game victory over No.15 Brigham Young University after being down two games to none. and added a three­game victory over Clemson. 13oylan performed her be::;t when the Brigham Young University match was on the line Saturday night. Boylan's ball control allowed the Irish to post a .421 hitting percent­age in the deciding game and she totaled 50 assists. 10 digs. three kills and three blocks in the match. Her spectacular play throughout the tournament earned hrr the Shamrock Invitational tournament Most V,duablP Player honor. Notre Dame will return to the court on Friday whrn the 2000 Adidas Invitational begins. Top-25 ranked teams UCLA. Nebraska and Michigan Statn will visit tlrn Joycr Crnter for a round­robin tournanwnt. 
defensive game as a strong team effort. "There's some great senior leadership out of Steve Maio. 
Conner LaRose. and Griffin Howard. I think those guys really helped lead the team in just giving everything they had every single minute," said 
Tait. "Also, with Andy Forstner and Greg Martin, I couldn"t ask anything more out of those guys. They really put their hearts out on the field." 
The Irish open their home season Wednesday night at Alumni Field against regional 
page 30 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 5, 2000 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Muth leads Belles in rough victory over Scots 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI Sport~ \X'ntt.-r 
I IPallH'r \1uth spl'nt iL lot ol' linw on thP ground '.'vlonday. as lht• BPllt•s soi·i·nr lPam sluggPd tiwir way through a 2­
0 vi!'lory against thP  ..\Ima  
Sl'11ls.  
l,111  wllill' hPr uniform  was 11  

litllt> dirl\', thP vir!ory was ,,orth ii. 
"Tlwy wPrP JHPtty rough." H" l I 1• s c· o-capt a i11 11 "athn Mutli said. "I was on tlw ground about l'VPry f'our min­ulP.'i ... 
ThP virt11ry puts tlw B1•lll's at 1-0 on tlw s1•ason. in a tough­f'oughl nliltl'h that f'ound tlw Bl'!l1•s giving as mud1 as ilwy got bark in rl'lurn. 
Tlw llt>llPs tinislwd llw ganw \\'ii h l 2 f'ouls to thP Srots' Pight. ' 
Kristin Stwa. a sophomori• SW!'!' pPr for i\1 ma. cl niw ttw first y1•llow rard of tlw ganw halfway through thP first half'. .l,,s,;ica Klink. also a ro-rap­tain for ltw BPIIP.s. ParnPd a yPllow with ') minutes to go in tlw gamP. 
"TIH•v cam!' out a lot morP physic;li in l111• sPcond half," said hPad ,·oarh Jason 
l\lilligan. "Hut Wt' starLPd off r<'al strong. It was a grPat way Lo start thl' sc-ason." 
StPphanit' Artnak found tlw lll't nrst for llw BPlll's at Lh1• 
I:i mi nut,~ mark. on her Sl'C­ond rll.rf'Pr prnalty kirk. 
Tlw first. an indir<'C'.t, W!'nt jusl widP of tlw right post. Thn sp1•oml 'v\'P!1t dt>Pp into tlw cor­lll' r and past Sro!.s goalie Paula Sdnvarz. 
·•1t was rnally intimid.rting at l'irst." Artnak said "But it was 1wat to s<·orP on a pnnalty kick lwrnusP in high school I w,1s n<WPr thP 0111• to Lakt1 that kick" 
WhilP tlw Scots ganw bark with a shot of tlwir own. BPIIPs goa IiP a n d c o -(' a p ta in Ti a l\.apphahn stoppNI any and all attPmpts l'or tlw f'irsl shutout of lwr rarPcr. 
Just 10 mint1ll\S latnr. tht' BPllns had th<• ball d<'<'P in Scots wrritory ancl l'ri•shman Kristin (;rN•nwo1H1 passf'd tu ~luth to put the Belles up 2-0 ovnr tlw S('()ts. 
"i\ftPr the Bt'thel gamr nvt>rvone realizod that if we don't comn out l 00 pnrcnnt at lhP start of the ganrn. thP.n w1,'II b(' playing catch ttp the rest of th<' game." Muth, a sophomorP and sr.oring veter-

KRISTINE KAAI/Tha Observer The Belles soccer team faces DePauw and Rose-Hulman this weekend, where they hope to build on Monday's victo-
TRACK AND FIELD MEETING 
Anyone Interested In 
TRACK AND FIELD 
For The Upcoming Year 
Meeting at 4 p.m. September 6th Loftus Auditorium 
BE THERE! 

Sophomore Lynn Taylor was one of six midfielders with shots on goal against Alma on Monday. The Belles recorded a 2-0 shutout against the Scots at Monday's home opener. 
an for the Bf'l!es, said. "We knAw what we had to do today. Wf' came out on fire right from thA whistle." 
The [fothel scrimmagli, a 3-2 victory for Saint Mary's Aug.24, saw the Belles start out slow and only pick up after tlrn I.adv Pilots had taken the lead by two. 
The r.ontAst against Alma was a different story. 
"We did a good job of taking advantage of' our opportuni­ties," Milligan said. "\,\'1• moved the ball around well." 
Artnak. a powPrhousP at center midfield. led the lkl10s with f'ive shots against Alma. while Muth. Lynn Taylor. Catherine Valent, Laura Paulen. and Shawna .liannoni each attcmpted one!' l'or Llw Belles, who wPn' oulshot by the S('()ts 17-10. 
Kapphahn had cight savns for the Bcll11s whill' Schwarz finished with four. 
"EvPrybody got a <'hanrl' to play," Milligan said of his t0am. "Evcrybody contribulPd to the rnsull which I thought was wondPrful." 
Thi' tnam r.rcditl'd thn unusually largn honw crowd l'or inspiring tlwm to vidory. 
"It's so much mor!' fun to play for fans." Taylor said. 
Tlw BPllns lravd first lo f'ac!' l)pf'auw Snpt. 1J and tlwn lo Tcrrc llautn to c·ompctP against ltos,~-l lulman Sept. 10. 
~~~~~\.~~ ~cc..""\:'\~C?>s 
Tuesday, September 5 --7:00 p.m. --Carroll Auditorium, SMC or Wednesday, September 6 --7:00 p.m. --Hesburgh Auditorium, ND 
Saint Mary's 
settEUER AROUND THE WORLD PR-OGRA1r1 
Open to all ND/SMC students 
Excellent academic program at Sacred Heart College in Cochin, India, focusing on the Asian world 16 semester credits applicable towards core or major requirements 
Opportunity for travel and study in many countries of the Far East, Southeast Asia, South Asia, Eastern Europe and Western Europe 

INFORMATION AND APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE SHORT VIDEO ON HIGHLIGHTS ALUMNI TO ANSWER QUESTIONS 

-f!t­
SAINT 
SEMESTl'R l'.ROUND Tllli WORLD PROGRAM (219) 284-4468 OR 4473, l'A)( (219) 284-4866 OR 273-5973 
tv1ARY'S 
e-maiI: pullapil@saintmarys.edu; http://www.saintmarys.edu/saw COLLEGE 
NOTRB DAME, IN 

Tuesday, September 5, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 31 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
Fox TROT 
I'M Tl--HNktNG WE'RE Go1NG To MARCI.IS, NEED FIVE OR MARCUS, 
StX BtG SPEAK£RS. MARCUS,, 
\ 
I 
MAYBE 11-lAT'S F1NE foR TRADITtotfAL SURRoUND SOUND SETUPS, BUT I THoUGHT WE WERE TR'1'1NG To RAISE THE BAR HERE. "" 
JM,C·SOUND™ SHOULD BE ~ 
SoMEiHING ToTALL'f' NEW. 
i 
'--~ 
" 
TYLER
TOM KEELEY 
THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 
RELIGION AND FOOTBALL 

WHEN WE FtRST TURN ON Tl-lAT MoV1E PRoJEcToR, I WANT ouR CLASSMATES To 
ICNOW IT 
) 
BILL AMEND 
I MEANT 01<, Now F1VE oR SIX WE'RE ON SPEAl<ERS THE SAME PER SM>ENT. PAGE. 
\ 
The first stage is denial. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Retaliate 1 It may be high 31 Hot springs or low on a car 
34 Bowie's weapon 5 Immediately, to 
36 "Mo' Better 
a surgeon 
Blues" director 9 Little bits Spike 14 Airport outside 37 Money man Paris Greenspan 15 Brain tests: 38 Spy Abbr. 
42 Fibster 16 Book that's read 
43 Color
word-for-word 44 Watermelon
17 Docking spot 
throwaways18 Waterproof 
45" 
cover 
Miserables" 
19 Black, on a 
46 Popular place 
piano 49 Take care of a
20 Entry 
bill
requirement, sometimes 50 Diving seabird 23 Headlight? 51 Fair-sized field 24 Little 'un 53 Buried loot 25 Uncle 60 Stored on board 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE M A L T S H O P R A F F L E 

61 Uke some testimony 62 Surgery souvenir 63 Lagoon encloser 64 Decorate anew 65 mater 66 Brawl 67 Shake hands for the first time 68 Chatters 
DOWN 
1 Conks 2 Buffalo's lake 3 Actor Guinness 4 Gift of the Magi 5 Agree out ot 
court 6 Kitchen whistler 7 Taj Mahal's city 8 Dosage amts. 9 Utilized 
10 Brainless one 11 Composer 
Puzzle by Marjorie Berg
Stravinsky 33 On pins and 
12 Curve needles13 Hog's home 35 -de-lance
21 Raring to go 37 Space-_
22 Wield a wheel (modern)
25 Brain protector 39 Auto airflow
26 Comics orphan regulator
27 King with a golden touch 
40 Over's partner 29 Santa's 41 Ad_ (to the assistants stars): Lat. 30 Churchill's sign 46 Football 31 What a new strategy session parent craves 
47 Memorial Day 32 Bamboo eater event 

48 American 55 Test standard wildcat 
56 Squirrel's home 50 Fred's dancing 
57 Bruins' sch. sister 
58 Freeway access 52 English paper 
59 Historic times 53 Love's opposite 
60 On the 54 Matinee hero (fleeing)­
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jack Klugman, Coretta Scott King, Sheena Easton, Anouk Aimee, Sandy Dennis, Casey Kasem 
Happy Birthday: You need to get your act together this year. Stop thinking and start doing. You need to concentrate on what it is you want to accomplish and go for it. The more you sit around hesitating, the greater the loss will be, ,It's time to spread your wings and take flight. Only you can take the initiative to make your life better. Your numbers: 9, 22, 24, 36, 40, 45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your interest in picking up new informa­tion or skills is growing. Sign up for seminars or courses that offer a chal­lenge. You'll quit if you get bored. 
000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will have greater concern with your future security. Check out retirement plans that offer guarantees. Stress due to worry has been wearing you down. Get busy doing things you enjoy. 00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will have to make a decision regard­ing your personal partner. The infatu­ations that you've been experiencing may be due to something you are lacking in your emotional relation­ship. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't let your desire for love lead you into a foolish pursuit. One-sided romantic attractions will be emotional and could damage your reputation if you are too demonstrative about your feelings. 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll make lasting friendships if you get involved in organizations. Your beliefs and attitudes will be respected by others. Move into a leadership 
EUGENIA LAST 
position. You belong in the limelight. 
000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl 22): Don't blow situations out of proportion. You could lose a good friend if you are critical and stubborn. Get all the facts, and don't be too eager to point your finger at others. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Listen to those having more experience. Travel and educational pursuits will enrich your vision. You will prosper through making new friends. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Money-making ventures look inter­esting. Take a closer look, but don't take too much time deciding. Your intuitive instincts will lead you in the most prosperous direction. 0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't let your partner play mind games with you. Stand up for yoµr rights and speak your mind. If he tries to put all the blame on you, be prepared to let him know what his faults are. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Get busy setting up those interviews. You need a job that offers more chal­lenges and higher wages. Sign up for courses that will bring you more skills and business knowledge. 00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You'll be desperate for intellectual bantering. Travel should be high on your list. Foreign cultures offer a host of interesting information for you to incorporate into your philosophy. 
000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Emo­tional setbacks will surface if you haven't resolved the recurring prob­lems that your_ relationship faces. If your partner denies that there's a problem, make plans to go out with friends. 000 
Birthday Baby: You were born with the desire to live life to the fullest. You must, however, make sure that you aren't overindulgent in the process. You are strong both physically and mentally and can accomplish a lot throughout life as long as you aren't too stubborn to compromise when necessary. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.corn, astromate.com.) 
@ 1999 Universal Press Syndicate 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers vvho have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today t~ receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ----------------------------­
Address City ________ State ____ Zip______ 


Kicking up a storm 
The Belles open their season with a 2-0 shutout ofthe Alma Scots. 
page 30
PORTS 
OBSERVER Tuesday, Se:prember 5, 2000
page 32 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Tait records 2 shutouts for Irish in Classic 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sports Wrl rer 
.... f\f'tpr losing vrteran (;crick Short to graduation. thP Irish rni,n's socc(1r learn was lcf't with two sophornorP goal­k Pep c rs who had combined to play only :15:30 last snason. After the f'inal 1ire­
s ea s n n 

p r a ('. t i c c Apple this sum­nrnr. rookiP llf'ad roa,·h Chris !\ppln 
nanrnd (ireg Tait his starter. 
Any questions about the tr.am's stability in goal were answernd as Tait posted two shutouts and the Irish record­ed a 1-0-1 record at the UNLV Fila/Snickrrs Hebel Classic over tho weekend. The Irish def'eat11d New Mexir,o 2-0 on Friday night beforn playing to a scoreless tie versus host N(wada-Las Yr.gas on Sunday. 
Tait r.arned both tourna­m11nt Most Valuable Player honors and Big East Coalkecpm of thr Werk hon­ors for his efforts. Tait prais­es th c tPam·s strong d efemrn in helping him earn the award. 
"Its rr.al exciting. I'm real 
grateful for it," he said. "The whoJp, defense played real.ly well for mo. They made it. pos­s ib I c for me to get that. award." 
Playing particularly well was sophomore Andy Forstner. The second-year starter from Germany was named the tournament's most valuable defensive player. 
"llaving those two awards givfrn to our goalkeeper and our central defender. that shows that our team as a whole is df1f'ending very well," said assistant coach Mike Avery. "That was something that we put a premium on r,oming into the tournament. We had two shutouts against. 
two high powered te,w1s. We felt really good about that." 
Sunday's game against the Ifobels pitted two strong defensive teams. The Irish came out on the offensive. tal­lying six shots in the first half. IIowever, they were unable to capitalize on any of' thes(\ opportunities. 
They came closest to scoring after halftime, as freshman Justin Detter had was only a. diving save by Rebel goal­keeper Scott Winstead away from putting the Irish ahead. Later in the second half. Irish sophomore Justin Ratcliff'n made a save from the back to 
see SOCCER/page 29 
FOOTBALL 
Battle fights injuries after season opener 
By TIM CASEY 
Assisr.mt Sporrs Fc.litor 
Talk about a scan•. 
On thP third play of' Saturday's ganrn against TPxas !\&M. Arnaz Battle rollPd to Ii is left. gainnd three yards and was shoved out-of­bou nd s by s1weral Aggi!1 ddPndns After br.ing pushPd, Battlr hurdled a bPnch on Lhc Notre Dame sidPlinns and rnllidPd into a ron!Tntp wall. 
llis nnarly 100 tPammates WP rt' nowlH•n· in sigh l. 
"Tlwy part1•d likP lhP Hnd Sna," Batt!<' said Monday. "I thought sonwonP would !4rab nw. I'm going to watch that lilm and lind out who movl'd " 
That inridPnt was not th<' only pol1•11 lial sl'tba1·k l'or thP Irish quartPrbark. In th£• s1~c­011d quartn, BattlP sprainPd his right ank!P but did not l<'aVP llw rnntl'sl. .\t half'tinw train!'!' .Jim Huss adlwrPd to thP slight injury, n•-taping tlw anklP. Following tlw garn!). !lat.LIP rP<'l'iwd fivp stitrlws in his kJ't shiri. 
II<· wori· an air east to i\londay morning's prnss con­fl' rnncl' but handlPd r.vcry 
s11ap in  tlw aftnnoon prac­ 
tirl'.  
"llr.'11  lw  l'irw." rnach Bob  

l>aviP said af'tn \1onday's prartirn. 
(;ood thing l'or tht• Irish. With top-rankPd NPbraska and thPir all!•gianrn of' !'ans rolling into town this wnPkPnd an injury lo lhP Irish startPr could causn additional majur concnrns. NPbraska opnn<'d 
see BATTLE/page 27 

Kachmarik. redefines athletics 
Pom-poms. smiles. and drnering. "Go bltw! (;o whitt•! Team f1ght!" 
This is an image that is familiar to all of' us. We'vo seen it at high sr,hool basketball games, rollege football games, and evnn f'rom the infamous Dallas Cowboys' chocr­leaders. But at a Saint Mary's vollt1yball game? Now that's rwws. 
For years, thnrn WPr<' rnern­bnrs of' the Saint Marv's rom­munitv that didn't ev;~n kno\\ that WP had sports tnams. IlowcvPr, things in thn 13Pllns athletic facility arP changing. Athletic director Lynn Kachrnarik has rr.dr.lincd thP Saint Mary's athlntic depart­mr,nt and renewnd the school's spirit. Leading this rebirth is the newly formnd Saint Mary's checrlnading squad. 
Who would have thought that thr, Saint Mary's student body would Pvcr want a elmer­leading squad? /\thlrtic teams have been bPgging for support for yfmrs. hoping fans make it to at least onn honw ganw. Now there am wornnn rlamor­ing to be part ol' this new club that will !(iad tho qtwst for Briles pride. During activitins night nearly 40 first-year women shmved intprnst. and last night. at tlw 11rst inl'orrna­tional mPPting. SO wonwn canw lo find out how th<\Y can support. their classmates. 
Why tlrn rocpnt intnrest in Saint Mary's sports'? 
It could be that Saint Mary's students arc finally realizing the importancP of' tlH' total stu­dent, body and mind. And wilh that rPalization they arn look­ing to support thosn \.\Pll­rouncled individuals that takP on nducation in thr classroom and on thP courts. 
Maybe it is an incrnasnd pridn in an intPgral part of' this collngn that has lrnnn ld't in the shadows for ynars. That part could only lay in thn back­ground l'or so long before sornt:thing f'orcnd it to llrn f'orn­f'ron l. 
That time is now. Or maybe this nnwf'ound 

~ee McVOY/page 27 
vs. Bradley vs. Santa Clara Cross Country Wednesday, 7 p.m. Friday, 7:30 p.m. at Valparaiso Inv.
SPORTS 
SJturday. l O a.m. 
ATA 
Volleyball Volleyball 
vs. Nebraska 
at Berhe! vs. Nebraska 
S;irurday, l :30 p.m. 
Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. Friday, 4 p.m. 
GLANCE 






