
On the path of sainthood 
Life changes 
In a ceremony held Sunday. Pope John Paul II 
The University Counseling Center offers 

Monday

ad11ice on transitions and college
heatified 44 martyrs, including Vietnam's first 
martyr u·ho, was beheaded in 1644. 

relationships for graduating seniors. 
MARCH 6, 
News . page 6 

Scene . page 13 
2000 

THE 



JOHN DAILYfThe Observer 
J.R. Mellin (photo left) celebrates after his victory over Dennis Abdelnour in the 150-pound weight class at the 70th annual Bengal Bouts. The event, which raised over $55,000 for a mission in Bangladesh. featured Mohammed Ali (above, with women's boxing 
captain Meghan McCurdyl as a special guest. 

HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Former ND student wins photo award 
By PATRICK BRENNAN 
News Wnier 

After submitting a portfolio of work from the past year, Hob Finch. Notre Dame class of 1998. was selected by a panel of six judges as 1999's best photogra­pher, winning the National Press Photographer of the Year award. 
The award, one of the most prestigious in the nation, brings significant recognition and a cash prize. Finch stressed that the recognition is far more important than any monetary reward. 
"No one really enters for the money," he said. "Having your work shown and hopefully rec­ognized is the important thing." 
Sponsored by the University of Missouri. the contest provides photographers from around the globe with the opportunity to showcase both single images and multi-picture stories. 
Since graduating from the University of Notre Dame in 1998. Finch has worked as staff photographer at The Beacon News in Aurora. Ill. His interest 
see AWARD/page 4 

Nobel laureate discusses experiences in Northern Ireland 
David Trimble, co-rnripients of drrn." said \.\'illiams. By TOM ENRIGHT the Nobel Peace Prize in 1998. for A mother of two. Williams News Writc:r their work in advancing peace in believed that she had her experi­
Northern Irdand. ence in Belfast for a purpose. She 

Childrrn nr.c-d a grPatf~r voice in Williams also spoke about her related a story of a starving moth­world affairs, according to Nobel feelings on war and violence and er that she met in Somalia who laureall' Bettv Williams, who how her work has changed her. had been forced to choose which spokr at Notn' [)anw on Friday. "When a child dies in \var by of her two children to feed since 
Co-winnPr of' the 1976 Nobel force it is an allront to ... a moth­she didn't have enough milk for Peacn Prize. Williams gave a lec­er," she said. both. Both children ended up ture highlighting hr.r personal Admitting that she had to learn dying. The mother herself then ex pcriences working for peace the art of non-\iokncc. Williams died while Williams was visiting nnd tlw prnt(iction of childrrn. said that it was a gradual trans­the area. Sim received her Nobel Prizr for t'orma tion that led her to con­''Religion should be acts and her work in Northern Ireland. Co­demn physical aggression. She reflections." said Williams. "Heal fo un dn r of' thr P1~arr People challenged patriot., don't just Organization, Williams became the view that wave nags. They involved in thn pearr movement accidental "God has nothing to do help }heir neigh­after witnPssing thr dr:ath of dRaths ar1; bors.
with war. You shouldn't 

thrnr children killed by the driver an unavoid­Williams also
bless men to kill." 

of an IHA getaway r.ar. To this able part of pointed out other day Williams refers to them as fighting. leaders in the her "wee angel,;." "Have you Bety Williams world that have "To do this work is to work with ever heard turned to peaceful
1976 Nobel laureate

the intangible," said Williams of an ucci­means rather about her work for pear.(~. "Peace d en ta I than violence to -people pray for it -dance for war?" asked Williams, "The only combat social wrongs. Lech it, but to work for it is another thing changing is that it's getting Walesa or Poland and l:lishop violence on television. The news­hying to have the United Nationsthing." smarter." Desmond Tutu and Nelson papers, she said, are also filled pass a Universal Declaration ofWilliams spoke from a Catholic The Nobel laureate also criti­Mandela of South Africa all with bad news. the Right'> of Children. 
point of view about conditions in cized those who interweave reli­demonstrated positive examples 
Presently a professor in Williams received her Nobel
Northern ln,land tlmt rontiibuted gion with war. of leaders who chose relativcly Women's Studies and Peace Peace Prize in 1976 along withto the violence between its "God has nothing to do with peaceful change over violence. 
Studies at Florida Atlantic Mairead Corrigan-Maguire, theCatholic and Protestant rnsidentc;. war. You shouldn't bless men to Addressing problems of vio­University, Williams also directs Protestant aunt of the three chil­Saying that shP SP.rs th1; opportu­kill," shf) said. lence and children in the United the World Centers of Compassion dren she witnessed killed innity for peace in the region. "The peace movement was States, Williams stated her con­for Children. She is currently lob-IJclfast.
Williams praised John Hume and born out of the sufforing of chil-cern that childrrn see too much 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, March 6, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Learning to roll 

Sometimes, it's good to come tumbling down. 
I'm not the most coordinated person you'll meHt. It took me three months to learn to ride a two-wheeler in the second grade. I spent the majority of grade school with ban­dages across my knees. and in latter years, have developed an infa­mous knack for falling down the stairs. 
So imagine me on rollerblades. 
As dumb as it may sound, the idea of gliding around on shoes with little wheels was incredibly intriguing to me. It looked so easy -all these peopli> 

Noreen 

gliding around with tho 
Gillespie

greatest of ease -even a 
klutz can do it, right'' Uh. wrong. Saint ,'vlary's Aware that I couldn't 
Fditor 

take any chances. I strapped on my skating gear -kneepads, wrist guards and elbow pads -and attempted to get up. Within Ove seconds, I realized I would not be one of those graceful gliding 
bodies. Instead of f1ying over the concrcle wilh the greatest of ease, I tumbled to the ground in a startling slump. There was noth­
ing graceful in sight. 
Great, just great. I'd only been on these things for five seconds, and already had taken a face plant into the cement. I knew if [ was going to complete this mission success­fully, I had to get back up. So I grabbed my friend's hand, shakily rolled back up to a standing position (almost tearing her down to the ground in the process) and tentatively was on my way again. 
And slowly, but surely, I was rolling. Slowly, but I was going somewhere. Finally! I was navigating bumps, cracks and small inclines, and by the time I reached the end of the avenue, I considered myself a pro. 
Next obstacle -crossing the street. 

I guess the problem started when I couldn't figure out how to stop when I approached the road. Holling out of control, I grasped the stone wall in a desperate effort to brake. Aware my skill was not yet advanced enough to combat moving vehicles, I was forced to lake my friend's hand and be pulled across U.S, 33. Shaking ofT the glances of amused drivers, I made it across the street -with guidance. 
After about 20 minutes of slow progress, I had navigated my way through the grotto, across south quad. and almost back to Saint Mary's. I thought I was home free -maybe even klutzes could manage this rollerblading deal. But it became painfully evident from the sympathetic glances from runners and pedes­trians on campus that I still had a long way to go. 
I guess my biggest victory was getting home that day. I did end up making it back to Saint Mary's uninjured -a major feat for a self­proclaimed klutz. Besides the scrape on my left leg -the one patch of skin left exposed by my skating gear -I returned with a small amount of confidence that maybe, just maybe, with the help of some friends, I could do this. 
And hey -if I'm going to fall, at least they're there to help me up. That's all part of learning to roll. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those nf thP cmthnr and not nPcer-::wrily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Maureen Smirhe Katie Wilhelm Kate Nagrngast Graphics 
I .indsay Frank 
Scarr Hardy 
Sports 
Lab Tech 
Molly Mc\loy 
Joe SLark 
Viewpoint 
Amanda Greco 

!"11r Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Mondav rhrough hidav exct"pr dl1ring exam and v1.c:1tion periods. The Ob~crvcr is :1 member of th~ A-;.-.oci.,re(t Pre~'>-All l"e-production righr~ are reserved 
THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 
Monday  Tuesday  Wednesday  Thursday  
. Meeting: lloly Cross  . Meeting: Holy Cross  . Fiction Reading:· By  . Seminar: Medieval  
Associates Information  Associ,Ltes Information  Rikki Ducornet at  Urban CulturP Seminar at  
Meeting, in the Cm1ter for  Meeting, at tlrn CSC,  llesburgh Library  the llesburgh Library,  
Social Concerns, 5:30 p.m..  5:30 p.m..  Auditorium, 7 p.m.  Boom 614, :L10 p.m.  - 
. Murder Mystery Theater:  . Voter Registration D rive:  . film: South African  5:30 p.m.  
"Hubba\; Killer Sauce" in  At l.aFortunn,  8 p.m.  - film, 'Mapantsula' at  . Winter Concert: Notre  
LaFortune Ballroom,  10 p.m.  Montgomery Theatre,  Dame Symphony Orchestra  
8 p.m.  8 p.m.  at Washington Hall, 8 p.m.  

CompUed from UWire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Ivy Leaguers refuse employment for environment 
NEWYOHK Coca-Cola sP-lls mon~ than 25 million
"Coke, GM. and BP-Amoco are
Students from Princeton, Harvard, bottles of CokP per day and "dP.spite
just three ofthe many
Yale, Dartmouth, Columbia, Cornell the misleading symbol. Coke bottles and the University of Pennsylvania companies out there contain virtually no recycled plastic. pledged Thursday not to accept jobs Nine years ago Coke promised to use
green-washing the public.,,
with several corporations until they 25 percent recycled plastic," he said. meet certain environmnntal stan­Thn Coca-Cola company, however, dards. Andrea Avolio di;:putes tlrn students' allegations. . 
"Students have always been idealis­senior at Columbia University There was nevP.r any pronuse tic, campaigning to save the world. made," Coca-Cola manager of com­The diffcrf'nce is that today we am munications Trey Paris said in an organized and educated in the rules Ecopledge.com, a nationwide cam­interview Wednesday. lie explained of [the corporalel game," Columbia paign formerly known as the Dirty that in the early 1990s Coke made a senior Andrea Avolio said. .Iobs Bovcott. torhnological bn~akthrough by includ­
The purpose of the campaign is to "Coke', GM and BP-Amoco are just ing rncyded plastic in its bottles. mobilize students to build awanmess three of the many companies out "We ought lo be seen as a leader in of' the significance of career choice, them grnen-washing the puhlic," progressive environmental pro­Frankie Lind, a Cornell junior Avolio said. "They are telling us that grams," Paris said. "A boycott like this explained. they are environmental and at the is uncalled for." 
Coca-Cola, British Petroleum­same time they are destroying our At the time, the company was Amoco and Goncral Motors arc the natural resources and contributing to unable to sustain the recycling tnch­current targets of the students' cam­global dimate change." nology but continued to invest in paign. The companies wern chosen by According to senior Keir Soderberg, research, Paris noted. 
Missile expert still in Chinese jail 
STANFORD, Calif. 
A former researcher at Stanford's Center for International Security and Cooperation, who was sen­tenced to 15 years in a Chinese jail last year for "leaking state secrets," is seeking medical parole because he has cancer, his sister announced Wednesday in a press release. 
Hua Di, 63, is suffering from a rare form of male breast cancer. Both Hua's family, researclrnrs at thq center and the United Nations are working as quickly as possible to get llua released. 
'Tm convinced that llua Oi does need attention of' a specialized nature that he probably couldn't get in China," said .John Kamm, director of the Project in Human Rights Diplomacy at Stanford. 
Hua's sister has hired a lawyer to seek his medical parolP., and she has also appealed to U.N. Human Rights High Commissioner Mary Robinson. Robinson is in Beijing on a three-day visit to try to release llua. 
President Clinton, Secretary or State Madeleine Albright and Political Scinnce Prof. Emeritus John Lewis have all made repeated trips to Beijing in an attempt to release Bua on humanitarian grounds. 
LOCAL WEATHER  NATIONAL WEATHER  
5 Day South Bend Forecast  
Accu\Veather® forecast for daytime conditions and high "temperatures  The AccuWeather" forecast for noon, Monday, March 6.  

H L Monday ~ 70 49 Tuesday ~ 69 48 Wednesday ~ 66 41 Thursday ~ 50 28 
' ' "' ' ' 

Harvard activists hold 'teach-ins' 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
More than 30 student activists evaded Harvard University Police Department (I IUPD) officers and staged three consecutive "teach-ins" to argue for a living wage Thursday morning, disrupting administrators in Mass Hall. the Harvard Office of Labor Relations and the University Developmnnt Officn. 
Supporters of the campaign, which demands a mini­mum $10 per hour wage for all Harvard employees, stormed into each oflice with a prepari>d presentation of graphs, charts and worker testimonies. Whnn IIUPD oflicers arrivnd, the protesters dispersed, met again at a prearranged spot and moved on to the next target. 
The Progressive Student Labor Movement (PSLl\-1) spearheads both the living wage and the anti-sweatshop campaigns, but most activism so far this year, both nationally and at llarvard, has cnnternd around sweat­shop policy. 
Yesterday's action, coinciding with an ongoing three­day sit-in at .Johns llopkins University, was thn first in several months for the living wage campaign. 
"It kept us visible and reassertnd the goals of the living wage campaign," said Roona Ray, a PSLM member. 

Ms,ur,: 

® © D CJ D D . EJ ;) ~§, ¥.@.i, 
High Low Showers Rain f-storms Flurrlee Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
Friday -~ 46 32 
Vi!! A515oc111lad Pr,u;s 
,,'\\.;"' 

Atlanta 75 56 Los Angeles 54 48 Portland 57 37 Baltimore 59 36 Memphis 73 55 Sacramento 54 41 Boston 59 35 Milwaukee 64 46 St. Louis 71 51
Q,Q-,4A Q. Qi) ~ u 

Chicago 69 50 New York 51 37 Tampa 77 55 
Showers T-storms Ram Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 77 66 Philadelphia 56 36 Wash DC 71 49 
Via AsscJCialed Press GraphlcsNet 

Monday, ivbrch G, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
SMC lecture series to focus on 01artyrs 


By KATIE MCVOY 
News Wricer 
Last night began a series of Lenten lertn1·es at Saint i\1ary's on the martyrs of El Salvador. Marie Dennis. di.rec.­tor of tlrn Marvknoll omce for Global Conce(ns. will be giv­ing the lectures in Stapkton Lounge Monday and Tuesday nigh1...; a'i wel.l. 
The lectures will focus on the men and women mar­tvre<l in El Salvador <lurinla{ the 17-year dvil war. 
Sunday's lecture focused on Archbishop Oscar H.omero, who was Msassinated in the diocese of Sun Salvador in 1980. Dennis used Romero·s story to illustratP the impor­tance of linding life in the res­urrcr.tion. 
Prom 1975 to 1992, approximately 75,000 people were killed in the Salvadoran civil war. Although gen-politi­cal interests. and not religious motivations. f'Ufiled the war. many of those who died were church workers who wr.re martyred for their faith. Ninety-two percent of the killings were committed by the army or army groups, said Dennis. 
t\t that time the Catholic Church in El Salvador under­went a change. Heligious workers were invited to accompany the poor. 
"The church moved from traditional church work to the reality of poverty," Dennis said. "The theology of libera­tion began to emerge. and this theology intersected with politi.~al and ideological ideas. 
Romero was the Archbishop of the diocese of San Salvador. Early in his career he was verv conserva­tive. but following the death of his dose friend Rutilio 

Bookstore Basketball Sign Up Taday!! 

& 

t 
5 
Bookstore Office:

Bookstore E-mail: 
631-6028

Bkstrbll.1@nd.edu 
2000 

REGULAR SIGN-UPS THIS WEEK fIRST FLOOR LAFORTUNE ONLY 8l5 MONDAY·RIIDAY-·9Pm TIIESDAY·fRIDAY 11am-2pm 
BECAUSE!HEBEIIIllBEAii/i118118P/Af 
Grande, he underwent a transformation. According to Ernestino Riv<'ra. a clos<' friend of Romero's. Grande"s words passed into Homcro. 
Romero became a servant of the pRople. As his vh;ion of how lifo in El Salvador became sharper. he was pulled more and more by opposing forres. On one side he wa'i urged by revolutionar­ies to confront thA govern­ment. On the other hand, he was encouraged by wealthy citizens and other bishops of the church to settle down. Ile would often "pull away to prayer. almost experting an answer. It seems he often got them," Dennis said. 
Romero was ac;sassinated at the Chapel of Divinu Providencia on March 24, 1980. Moments before his death he said, "As a Christian, I don't believe in death with­out resurrection. If am killed, l will rise again in the people of El Salvador." 
Dennis said that the chal­lenge for today's Catholic is to look at the story as we jour­ney to new creation in the Lenten season. 
"We too are invited to allow the blood nourished seeds of liberation to grow in our souls to move with [Romero] in the cWTent of history that knows death is not the end." 
When asked what was esperially poignant about this story for today's college stu­dent, Dennis said that the oppression happened to stu­dents as well. 
"Some of the worst repres­sion occurred in the universi­ties because the students were organizing for a social change. Many fled the country and didn't return to their lives until they were in their thir­ties. You are living the years that were stolen away." 
The lectures will continue 
this week. Monday night's 
lecture will focus on four 
women missionaries mar­
tyred in El Salvador and 
Tuesday night's lecture will 
focus on Jesuit martyrs. 
• 1'a\ 
page 3 
ND to hold memorial 
Mass 
Special to The Observer 
A memorial Mass for the late Father Richard Mr:Cormick. pro­fessor emeritus of Christian Athir.s. will he celebrated Tuesday at 3:30 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Father Theodore Hesburgh. University prPsiden t emeritus. will preside and Father Richard Mc Hrien. theology professor. will give the homily. 
McCormick. who died Feb. 12 at Colombiere Center in Clarkston. Mich., was an internationally renowned moral theologian who specialized in medical ethics. Ile had taught at Notre Dame since 1986. He pre­viously was the Rose F. Kennedy Professor of Christian ethics in Georgetown Universitv's Memorial Kennedy cen-Mass ter for Bi o e t h i c s . Tuesday 
from 1973-86 . 3:30 p.m. and a profes-. Basilica of the 
sor of moral theology at Sacred Heart the Jesuit School of Theology in Chicago from 1957-73. 
Born Oct. 3. 1922 in Toledo. Ohio, McCormick entered the Society of Jesus in 1940 and graduated from Loyola University in Chicago five years later. He obtained a master's degree from Loyola in 1950 and in 1953 was ordained to the priesthood. 
In 1957 he obtained his doc­toral degree in theology from the Gregorian University in Rome. 


\J a'f \~'f·\o1' •. ,,'f·\e-;\J u:tJt' ~c'f \"" 

t/\01':lf~ Foo,J l>rive 
Throughout March. Drop offs at the RSRC, Rock, Loftus, LaFortune, Joyce Center F/S Fitness Room, Cafe de Grasta in Grace Hall 
•It's Wot A~out Making The~ E.at: He(t,ing a FrienrJ wit#, an fating 
Disorder" Rita Donley, University Counseling Center 3/21, 11 :30-1 :30, ND Room LaFortune, Register @ 1-8662 Cooking l>e~onstration 
~ with Chef Ellis, 3/28, 12: 10 & 5: 15 v Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Wu+ri+ior, Har,qouts froM Food Services anrJ +he AM 
Spo,,tore,J t>v: IRISHea(+h, RecSpor+t, Fooq Service5 an,J Student Hea(+h A,Jvi5orv 
Boar,J 
.--------------------------------------. 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, March 6, 2000 
Award Debate team competes on national level 
continued from page l 
in photography began at Notre Dame-. where hr honed his tal­ents at The Observer. 
Despite the fact that his father was a nf'·wspaper photographer. rinch was not interested in pho­tography before atlending the Universitv. 
"Since it's difl1cult for a lot of athletes to r.ontinue playing var­sity sports at Notre Dame. I found mvsrlf with a lot of time on my Iiands. So l joined The Observer," he said. 
1 n addilion to taking photogrn­ph y rlassrs. Finch l1rnrnrd n great deal about the art th rough experimentation. 
"l was ablr. to figurr out a good deal on my own," he said. "It was a question of taking advantagr of thr many opportu­nilies with which I was present­ed at school." 
Since winning thr award, l;inch has brt•n asked to sprak al various univPrsities through­out llw country. 
'Tm vr.ry gratr.fu[.'' hr, said. "But, tlw spraking dates have bnf'u intimidating. It's strange lo have a rlPar idea of whnt your dutifis arc onr dav, and to be considered some.what o!' an Pxpert the next." 
finch said he is taking success one step at a time. In terms or th0 immediate future. hr plans to relocate. 
.. 1 · m going to work at. Thr Oregonian," he said. 
No strangr:ir to recognition, Finch has attai1wd various com­mendations for his work over the past ylrnr from the Midwestern journalism commu­nity.
"h's easy to gr.t a big /l('ad about this sort of thing," Im said. "Not that rnurh has changr.d. I mr.an. I don't know anv more than ! did before the award." 
By STACEY KAPLAN 
News 'X'riccr 
The debate team will cap nil' their sea­son this weekend at the National Parliamrntary Debatn Association's fNPDA) l\'ational Tournament at Creighton University in Omaha. Nflb. Currently ranked 15th in tbc nation. the team is a mern three points away l'rom thP top five. and is hoping to pNform wr.ll enough at nationals lo secure a spot in the top 20. 
"It's lik<' tlrn NCAA baskt'tball tourna­mcnl. Wr. could start winning and end up in the Final Four." said snphomorP. team mf'mbcr and co-treasurer Will McDonald. "A top-10 finish is within rP.ach. It's very tangible f'or our team." 
!\ debate pownrhousc in the 1970s and 1980s, Notro Dame had a disap­pointing show in tho early 1<)<)Os. and only in the past !'cw years has the team begun to competn on a national level mH'.P again. 
"We've had good coaching and 1L lot of talented people. Chris !luck has donn a J'abulous job with us. llo's givnn us a foundation or coaching that rnally worked wonders." Mr.Donald said. 
!luck. a third yt~ur law student and the director or dBbat.o, tr11nsf'ornrnd the wam last year from an 011ldi!tl'd fnrrn nf' debu.te known as policy into the !'ast­growing world of parliamentary d11bate. 
"Tim popularity of parliamentary debate has grown tremendously in 1\m11rica over tho last five years. This national tournament will be the largest tournament ever in North America." Iluck said 
The debate ttmm has cnjoynd success at several tournanrnnts this year. It has finished top three at every tournamnnt. and has taken first place swnppstakes at four out ofth,1 snven. induding thr pres­tigious im·itational Ilatlield Dnbat,~ tour­nament at WillameUe Cniw~rsity. which took placi> Feb. 19-20. c111d tlw l'i Kappa Delta National !lonorarv Tournamrnt at Webster University, Feb. 2:i-28. 
"The [debatl'rsl are all doing it becau:-;e they really want to br, involv(\d. 

Tlrny don't get rncognition in tho fact Tho team has only onn senior, club that they're not basketball or football. president Dan Peate, but a plethora of Debate is always kind of unknown. They sophomores and freshman. put all of the time into it because they Mr.Donald found similar minor faults. love llrn activity, not just to win," lluck "We have a very young toam. 
said. "'!l's exr:iting to repr·estrnt the 
''The popularity r~f'
University. I'm amazed with our parliamentary debate 
success this year has grown tremendously
becnusn thn pro­
in America ouer the last 
gram had fallen into dbrnpair. It's prnlty five years. This national 
surprising to ovcry­tournament will he the on e," McDonald 
largest tournament ever
said. 

Iluck found only a in North America." fow wnaknosses wit.h the tNtrn. 
Chris Huck
"Thoy put. too 
director of debate
much prnssuro on tlH'msclves. Thrv gN frustrated C(m1·­p,1ling against peo­ple' who arc S<~niors, and I havn to remind them that limy are a.II young. 1 havo no doubt that in two years one of' them will be the national champion. That's how good I.hey are." 
5) the names of two references. 
Application Deadline: Friday,
Co-SpoY\Sored by the ND College 

Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Program in Italian
Democrats al'\d 

343 O'Shaughnessy University of Notre
Co!le9e ReptAb!icC\V\$;;r. 

Dr.ponding on who tlrn next coach is, we havp the potontial to bn 1t national power for gr·n­erations." ho said. 
The team was also given major honors recently when it was sel11ctcd to host the thrnl1 champions ol' t!w Irish Times Dnbatc Tournament. Thev will be holding an t>xhibition debate against thrPn mrmbers or thr Notre Dame team. 
"I think it's just going to be great bPcausn we·n~ the Fighting Irish and tlwy'rf' actually 
from lrnland. It's going Lo be n'ally cool to dnbatn with them," said McDonald. Tho nxhibition is oprn to th<' public ,111d will bn held on March 21 Ht 7::rn 
p.m. in the La.Fortune Ballroom. 


TO THOSE WHO REFUSE TO LISTEN • 
You don't have to let high blood pressure take you by surprise. Ask your doctor to check it and help you keep it in check to reduce your risk of heart attack and stroke. Learn more at www.americanheart.org or call 1-800-AHA-USA1. 
. ,__ 
Amencan Heart ... 
AssociationeV Fighting Heart Disease and Stroke 



Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the 
Announcing the Year 2000 Annual 
A wards  of  the  
Albert  Ravarino  
Italian  Studies  
Travel  Scholarship  

Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the year 2000
Vote~ Re ist'1'atioV\ 

annual competition for travel in support of summer research and 
foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed 
$3,500, and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame 
graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pursue
D~ive 

research or a formal program of summer study in Italy are invited 
to apply. Students must have completed at least one year of Italian 
language. The course work will normally be in Italian; will involve 
the study of Italian language, literature, and culture; and must be
Ma~ch 7th 

applicable to a student's degree program at the University of Notre Dame. 
8-1 Opm iV\ Lafofl4tLAV\e 

Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbino, Columbia University in
by the elevatofl's 

Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the 

materials on Italian foreign study in the Department of Romance 

Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
1 
) an explanation of how the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their degree program at Notre Dame 

2) 
a personal statement indicating their background, interests, and long-term goals 

3) 
a description of the research project or the program they intend to follow 

4) 
a budget indicating the costs involved 


March 10th, 2000 Travel Scholarship Studies 

Hall __J
Dame 

~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 

. 
.

orld 
•I
14. "· 


Monday, March 6, 2000 COMPILED Flt0M THE OBSERVER WIRE SEHVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Champion cyclist kidnapped, forced to hike seven hours 
BOGOTA. Colombia 

1\ rPlirrd ryding star was frPP.d Sunday, om~ day aft<'r susprrtrd lrft-wing rebels kid­nappPd him from his family's farm. The l 987 Tour of Spain champion. Luis Alberto I lc'rrPra. was released in the mountains south of Bogola, near the farm where he was snatl'llf'd by gunmen Saturday. llcrrnra told llCN radio that his kidnappers dcr.ide<l to t'rr,e him aftPr s1-wing tel!'vision reports showing thP massivP military sean-h-:rnd-rnscue opPr­ation launchrd in rP.sponsP to the abduction. No group claimed rPsponsibility for the kid­napping. whirh provokPd national outrage. But polir,, officials s,Lid th1' region is a strong­hold of Colombia's larg1:st guerrilla faction. th1' Hnvolutiunarv Arnrncl Forc:1:s of Colombia, or FAHC. Colombia's ldt-winl-{ rebels inrrr.as­inulv depPnd rm Pxtortion and kidnapping for rn~~om to l'und lheir nearly 40-year .,..mpaign against tlw gov1~mmPnt. I t0rrrra. 38, said his rnptors tn'ati>d him well, hut hf' was forc0d to hikP for st'VPl1 hours through thP mountains to rc•turn honl<' 
CDC says more handwashing could cut infection rates 
ATIANTA 

lnli'c·tions <·ontrn<'tPd in hospitals kill as many as XS.000 pPople Pach year. a number that rnuld bP rPdw·pd with incrnased use or tPfhnol­ogy and simp]P nwasurr.s surh as more l'rc'­qu<'nt hand washing. a rPs!'archcr said Sunday at a ('onfPrPnrc on tlrn problem. The U.S. C:cntPrs r·or Disr.as1: Control opened a five-day rnnfornn;:p on pn•venting and reducing hr,allh­can'-associated infertions in tlanta. Dr. Richard 
P. \Vf'nzr.l. chairman of thf' internal medidne dPpartmi>nt at tlw Mediral College of Virginia said nPw dPvirr.s surh a'i rnthi:tPrs mated with antibiotics have proven effective against infec­tion sprPad at health fariliti1:s. But those are still far costliPr than simp!P but equally ner.es­sary strps as getting dol'tors and nurses to w,L'>h tlwir hands aftf'r evPry patient rontart. he said. "I land-washing is clwap, but the impact from it is grPat.'' WenzPl said. 
Seaweed trade benefits town 
CORRAL. Chile 

i\ diver tPtherf'd to a rowboat desrends into th1\ calm bay and resurl'ac1's moments later with a bag full of tbP tangled seaweed known !orally as'" pPlillo." or little hair. This harvest is an important. onP for thr. people who live simply in this rPmotP town on Chile's southern mast. Tlwv don't Pal the sr.aweed -but it h,,lps thPni Pat. ThP pelillo is converted into tlrn firw. cream-colored powder of pure agar. most ol' which is shipped more than 10,000 milr,s across thP Pacific to Japan. whPre it is used in noodles. candies, cosmetics. pharma­cPutir.als and other prodU(~ts. 
l•Wititliif®M41
Dow AMEx: 
1013,71 JONES +ID.ii 
Nasdaq:

+202.28 

.J9 I.J.79 
-'-16() 2R 
:'-IYSE 
6l0.47 
+8,47 

S&P 500: Composite 
Volume:
1409.17

10,367.20 1-27..11 1.I 55.J 14,0110 
VOLUME LEADERS 

CQll2i\tli  :t:CS:UI!  !a 5;;111:iliii  a S:UAl!tl  2:1is:1  
DELL COIIIPUTElR MI CR030FT CP  Oln,L MSFT  . L9 .,.3.0  . 1.31 . 2. 75  U.25 ,,. u  
PAO:lNQ SE'T'WOJ!.K  FAC'E  +22. 1  +0. f.i6  :L61  
THR:ES c:'OH CP  COMS  +l. S  . l.25  83.06  
Gl.Ol!AL CP.OSSlNQ  GBU  +l. 8  +2.06  5i.U  
ORACLS: CO:R.P  ORCL  . 9. 5  +6. So  ,s .00  
MCI WORLOCOM C!S~O SYSTEMS  11<:0M csco  -a. s +l. S  -0,25 +4 ,69  n.s,1:n.u  
l"ST 61i:C CORP  FSCO  -17.9  -•, 53  13.97  
'1ALX tNC  PkI,M  -15,. Ii  -U.78  B-0.25  

EGYPT 


the main agricultural route to the Police fired tear gas and arrested 
Associated Press 

coastal city ofAlexandria. about 20 alleged protest leaders, the Thousands of villagers rioted Villagers said scores of people had official said. Six police officers and Sunday, hurling rorks at motorists been killed and injured along that 34 villagers were admitted to hospi­and setting vehicles ablaze after a part of the road as a result of speed tal with injuries. Most of the vil­speeding truck killed a 16-year-old violations and reckless driving, the lagers suffered from tear gas inhala­girl. a police official said. police official said. tion. 
The rampaging villagers seized the Dozens of riot police were sent to The disturbance caused a traffic driver of the truck that killed Samah the village of Mit Nema, about nine jam stretching to the outskirts of Mustafa. br,at him severely and set miles north of Cairo, after about Cairo. fire to his vehicle. the official said on 3,000 people began demonstrating. Road accidents resulting from condition of anonymity. The driver Villagers set fire to a police van. a reckless driving along Egypt's main was hospitalized in critical condition. fire engine and a paper factory. roads claim thousands of lives every 
Protesters demanded a crackdown They also rolled a boulder onto rail­year. Traffic figures for 1998 reveal on motorists who routinely ignore way tracks, blocking trains for an that over 6,000 people were killed in tralTic rules along the road, which is hour, the official said. accidents. 
US soldiers pitch tents for evacuees 
for a fourth day Sunday. military exercises -called orange vests, unloaded the 
Associated Prrss 

Working side by side Balikatan, or "shouldering relief goods as smiling with Filipino troops. about the load together" -in the evacuees milled around. ANISL!\G. Philippines 30 U.S. soldiers hammered Philippines that ended Officials said up to 3,000 
U.S. soldiers pitched tent tents into place while Friday. people could be accommo­
shelters Sundav to relieve throngs of evacuees "It's tied in with the dated in the tents. overcrowding ·at Pvacua­
watched in a clearing in Balikatan because the Defense Secretarytion centers where tens ot' 
Anislag viBage in Albay same counterparts we Orlando Mercado said they · thousands of people have 
province. have been training with, would transfer some of the heen living to escape a vol­
The U.S. military contin­learning how to fight, can evacuees sheltered in cano that began erupting 
gent. led by Navy Capt. show their flexibility in grade school buildings to last month. 
Bob Harward, brought the quickly transitioning into the tents to allow classes to 
Disaster relief officials tents, bottled water, mats humanitarian operations," resume. have been busy feeding and 20.000 gas masks, Harward said. Mercado denied newspa­more than 66.000 people 
funded by a $418,000 A convoy of army trucks per reports that food sup­and preventing diseases 
donation from the U.S. brought the relief cargo plies were running low in from spreading at the cen­
government. from two U.S. C-130 planes the evacuation centers, cit­ters in the wake of a series 
The American soldiei;s to Anislag. There, U.S. ing as an example rice of powerful eruptions by 
were among more than troops, Philippine soldiers stocks in Albay, which he Mavon volcano, which 
2,000 U.S. troops who had and police, some wearing said are good for another remained relatively quiet joined the monthlong joint yellow hard hats and six months. 
page 6 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, March 6, 2000 
==-=--=--=---=---=----_-___:-_-_---=-==-=-=-===-=-=-=-=-=--~============================================================================= 
VATICAN CITY 
Pontiff beatifies 44 martyrs at cereDiony 

A.socia1ed Press 
From Polish nuns exer.utPcl hv '.'Jazis tD victims of' 17th-ccnturv religious warl'arr in Brazil, Pope John Paul II honored 44 martyrs Sunday, bold-. ing up thf\ir Iives as pro­files in r.ourage for today's 
Homan 
Catholirs. The honor. called beatifi­

John Paul II

ration. is the last formal step br.forn the pror:P.ss of saint­hood ran begin. 
,\mong those declared blessed during the cPrP.mony on a spring­like day in St. Peter's Square was Vietnam's first martyr. Andre de Phu Yen. He was baptized at age 15 and beheaded three years la.tor in 1644. when he refused to rn1ounre Christianitv. 
"May all the disriples of Christ find in him the strong-th and sup­port in trial," John Paul said in Frenrh. 
Vietnam's people are predomi­nantlv Buddhist. but the countrv has the largest Catholic communf­ty in Southeast Asia outside or the Philippines, Many Vietnamese attended the beatification in tradi­tional silk rostumcs. 
J\ppcaring to tirn during the 2 l/2-hour-long r:errmony, the popP used the various languages of' thn nrnrtvrs' homPl.ands as he om?n•d cnct;uragern<:nt Lo Catholics worldwide. Shoring up faith of 1hosP vvho havP trouble with churrh tcachings, such as bans on birth control and prcimarital sex, is a kry goal of John Paul's papa­cy. 
"Although they livnd in historic rnom0nts far apart and in very differt>nl cultural contexts." tlin popf' said of tlw 44 martyrs. "thl'y are brought togcthf\r by an identi­cal expnrionce of loyalty to Christ and to the rhurch," 
Many from llorne't; larg!~ Filipino community were among tht1 tens of thousands of faithful at the ceremony. They cheered lou<l­ly when the pope proclaimed the bratifiration of Pedro Calungsod, a Filipino killed at age 17 during a 1672 expedition by Spanish Jesuit missionaries to the Marianas. 
The pope also beati (ied Maria Stella Adela Mardosewicz and l 0 follow Polish nuns who offered their lives to the Nazis in exchange for those of dozens of families in 1943. 
The women were executed by rifle firn in woods near the border or Poland and Belarus. The fami­lies all survived, although many were deported to work camps. 
A;sociatcd r..ess 

MOSCOW 
Acting President Vladimir Putin snt nlT a wavB or criti­cism Sunday f'rom his rivals in the presidential race by tclling a British tchwision net­work that Bussia could join NATO. 
Sonrn critir.s called Putin's comnrnnts a bl'trayal or Hussia's intl\rnsts. Others callcd them a bid l'or votes from Western-minded Hussians in tlrn March 26 elPction. or an nfforl to soften his hard-line image abroad. 
Askccl whetlrnr Bussia could join N:\TO, Putin l<ild British Broadcasting Corp. intervil'w­er Sir David Frost: ··r don't Sfll' why not. I wouldn't rule out such a possibility, But I repnat -ii' and when Hussia's views arc taken into account as an equal partner." The interview was broadrast Sundav and pickr:d up by Hussia's· main networks. 
NATO has been keen to cooperate with llrn Kremlin sincP thn 1991 SoviP.t collapse. bul has not shown any sign it is inviting Hussia to .ioin. U.S. Secretary o!' State Madeleine Albright has said NJ\TO could expand to includn Hussia. but other U.S. politicians strongly rnsist the idea. 
Dnspite r,ooperation on some projects, relations between Bussia and NATO ­

McKinsey&Company 
Programs will be held on May 18-21 and August 24-27. Locations are yet to be determined. 
RUSSIA 

Rivals criticize Putin for NATO stance 
formed during the Cold War was unlikely to follow through Lo deter Sovir.t troops from with action. moving w<istward -remain "I !is actions absolutelv don·1 shaky. Most Hussians Sl'P r·orrnspond to his ~tatn­NJ\TO expansion into Eastl'rn mcnts." Yavlinsky said on tlw Europe as a thrnat.. ltogi television program. 
Moscow virtuallv sevrred all Yavlinsky is also running for Lies with NATO last yoar in president. ri.>sponsP. to thp, alliance's Communist leader Gennadv 
bombing  Zy u g an o v·.  
campaigu i n  "His actions absolutely  who polls at a distant s~1c­ 
Yugoslavia.  don't correspond to his  ond  behind  
NATO, meanwhile,  statements."  Putin in the prns id P n ti al  
condemned  rac:P,  said  
Hussia for  Grigory Yavlinsky  Sunday that  
LI  S  i  11  g  reformist lawmaker  joining NATO  

Pxcessiv1~ l'orre in Cherhnya. But an agnwment to rostoro tir,s was announced last month when NATO Socrntary­Genoral 1.ord Hobertson visit­rid Mosr.nw. 
Still, it appeared unlikP!y that Putin would press soon for memborship in thn U.S.­hid alliance, Putin has made restoring Hussia's global clout a key rnmpaign slogan, and has bruslrnd off months of Westr,rn critidsm of' thn war in Chechnya. 
Hussian television comnrnn­tators Sunday pointed out that Putin usually tailors his remarks to his audil'nrn, and keeps many promises vague. 
Heforrnist lawmaker Grigory Yavlinsky dismissed tlrn com­ments on NATO, saying Putin would l'urtlwr 
'v\'PakPn 
Hussia. 
Putin's "statfl11HH1t is naivP and unpardonabl1i !'or a politi­cian or his lcvcl." Zyuganov told lntorfax. "llo should at least hirn knowlcdgcabll' for­eign policy advisers." 
Konstantin Titov, a presi­dential r.andidatc and the n1formist. governor of th<l Hussian region or Samara. wclcomnd the idoa of joining NATO. But Titov said Putin's statement was littlP morn than a campaign stunt !'or attracting reformist voters. according to lntcrfax. 
Deputy Parliament SpPakcr Vladimir Lukin said that Hussia rould join if' it trans­formed from a military to a political alliance and Hussia was offered equal tPrms. 
A Three-Day Insider's Look into Management Consulting for College Juniors 
McKinsey & Company, a management consulting 
firm with over 5,500 consultants in 80 offices in 42 
countries, invites you to gain insight into the world 
ofmanagement consulting. This comprehensive 
seminar, designed exclusively for college juniors, 
will cover a range oftopics important to those who 
are exploring career opportunities in management consulting. The agenda will include: 
• 
An introduction to consulting via case excercises 

• 
Team-based problem solving exercises 

• 
An interview workshop 

• 
Recreational, team-building activities 


Applicants should be expecting to finish their undergraduate degree in 2001. No business experience is required. 
All applications must be received by March 13. Applicants will be notified by mid-April. 
For more information and an application, visit our web site at http;l/www.mckinsey.com/insightba or pick up a brochure from your career services office. 
To learn more, please join us: Wednesday, March 8 7:00-9:00 p.m. Room 100 Center for Continuing Education 
http://www.mckinsey.com/insightb 

Monday, March 6, 2000 The Ohserver . INTERNATIONAL NEWS MOZAMBIQUE 
Flood survivors return to devastation 
and b(•lo1~gings am id l'OliapsPd buildings. rui1wd rrops and bodirs burit•d in dl'iPd Parth. 
Thr rrturn­ing n•sid<'ll L'i or Chokwr' WPrr among tlrn 
thousands of' 
!\lozambicans who wPr<' try­ing lo fathom 1\'lw! rc'mai1wd 
Experi 
ng WI . aker? 
If you are a Freshman, Sophomore or Junior with Mac skills and want to work for a few hours a week call Brett Huelat at 246-1488 or stop by The Observer office in the basement of the South Dining Hall. You will not find a better job on campus! Great Pay!! Very Flexible!!! 
capital. Maputo. that
"! chm 't ,n;nd ph'k;ng np 
flood viclims 
dPad bod;Ps, but the.fact would n11r.d 
that more people are outside food aid l'or at
going to die because no 
least I 0 
other aid has arrived 
months. here really bothers me." Josel'ina Macha was morn l'ortu-
Chris Horta 
natP than 
aid worker manv i11 Chok~w. 126 milns north 
ol' Maputo. 
ing firn boiled nearby. 
Others were not so fortunate. 
Along a path, Paineta Khoza lay still under a blanki>t, then stirred and pullnd back the cover, revealing a drawn, r.maci­atf'd fare. 
'Tm dying," she whispered. ''I haven't eaten :;incr. last Sunday." 
\IVlwn thr, f'loodwatrrs hit Chokwe on FPb. 27, Khoza was hospitalized with tuberculosis. f.loPing ml'dical workers placed her atop a junkod pickup truck as the water quir.kly rose. 
Thern she laid alone for six days until the waters n~coded. Someone returning to town put lrnr on th(: gnrnnd. whf're sho remained unattended until two workers from the aid group Dortors \Nilhout Borde1·s brought hPr to tlwir medical sta­tion. 
Aid workers found thl' bodies of' 1·1 flood victims on Sundav. One of them was a mnntally ill man. whose family had chained him tn a mntal hnam outsidr their house. thPn fled whnn the watr.r rushed in, said Chri:; Horta, onr of the workr,rs 


motio resume 
1oney $$$$$ 

Work for The Observer Ad Design Department 


WA Areasolworstfloodng ' 
M-'ilJWh\

A1eas ,n Ganger 
AP Graphic 
Horta used an ax to fren thr man's body from tlrn chain. His remains were zipped into a white body bag whilf' his mother wept nearby. 
"I don't minu picking up deau bodies," Horta said, "hut tlw fact that more people am going to die br.cause no other aid has arrived hero r<'ally bothers mf\." 


page 7 
Country awaits 
•
more rain 
Associated Press 

MAPUTO 
With fears of heavy rain 
again looming, authoritiPs 
warned thousands of dis­
placed l\lozambicans on 
Sunday against returning 
to low-lying areas to 
search for what remains of 
their homes and belong­
ings. 

As the swollen Limpopo 
and Savr rivers rec:Pded, 
rescue workers and aid 
officials said the risk of 
drowning had diminished. 
'v\lhat now facPd f1ood sur­
vivors was the scramble for 
food and dean wat•-r. 

"The rescuA phase is 
corning to a close," said 
Boss Mountain. a United 
Nations spArial envoy who 
spent two days .flying ovAr 
still subnwrged arnas of 
the southeast African 
nation. 

He Ii er e!Torts focused 
instead on distributing aid 
to desperate survivors, 
many of whom were still 
onlv accessible bv air. said 
Brend a Barton. ·a spokes­
woman for the United 
Nations World Food 
Program. 

Fights broke out in 
camps as survivors. raven­
ous and thirsty after being 
stranded in trnes and on 
rooftops for up to a week, 
clambered for food. 

A total of :n helicopters 
and 15 planr.s delivered aid 
on Sunday, mostly in thn 
Limpopo Hivrr valley, 125 
miles northeast of the capi­
tal. Maputo, Barton said. 

Another two helicopters 
were ferrying strandPd 
people to locations whrre 
relief groups were attrmpt­
ing to distribute the enrnr­
gAncy supplies. she said. 

In neighboring South 
Africa, 32 airmen from 
McGuire Air Force Base in 
New Jersey and Dover Air 
Force Base in Delaware 
arrived at llor.dspruit air 
base on Sunday to set up 
aid operations for up to 
600 American troops. 

Mountain said many sur­
vivors were ignoring the 
pleas of aid workers and 
government officials and 
returning to flood-battered 
areas, raising the possibili­
ty they may ner.d to br. res­
cued again if heavy rains 
and flooding resume. 

The remnants of Cyclone Gloria, which together with a steady, two-week down­pour caused the deluge, has been downgraded to a tropical storm. The storm hovered over the Indian ()r,ean off the coast of Mozambique on Sunday, and was expected to bring more rain. Mozambican weather forec:asters said. 
Although tlrn rPlief effort was gaining pace, Prnsident Joachim Chissano said thr. interna­tional community had been slow to respond to the cat­astrophe, an allegation the 
U.N. envoy denied. 
"It does take timn to get helicopters from Europe, We need to be realistir,," Mountain said. More than $40 million had already been pledgcid for r,mer­gency relief and recon­struction. he said. 


t\ssocidted Pre» 
CIIOKWE 

With J'loodwatnrs subsiding under a baking sun, lrnndrrcls of f'amishrrl pPoplr stragglnd honrn to tlw soutlH'rn town of Chokwe on Sunday. srarr.hing for homes shirting from those threatened with drowning to distributing rood and water to rkspcratr. sur­vivors. Betwc<'n 800.000 and 1 million pnopln lost their homes in Lim deluge and were in urgent mwd of help, thf'y said. 
PrPsid<'nt Joaquim Chissano 
said in the 

ol' tlwir hardscrnbb!P liws madr all Llw ,,·orsP by c!Pvastaling 
lloocls. 
Unitl'd '.\Jations and aid agr.ncy ol'lkials said Sundav tlw inlnrna­t ion al rdir•f ()pPr~ttion in this soutlwasl :\f'riran nation was !IP rPrnvPred hundrrds of Pars of c·orn. whirh hn'II usr for seod when lw plants again. On Sunday. tlw nars wnrr laid out to drv on a shod of' plastic. 
'~It's not :;o bad. I think wr.'11 b,! OK." hr said as a pot on a cook­


Monday, March 6, 2000
page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Californians to vote 
•
on gay 01arr1age 

Associated Press 
NEWPORT BEACH, Calif. 
The pastor of St. Andrew's 

Presbyterian Church told his 
congregation Sunday that he 
welcomes gay people into his 
church. Rut he doesn't want 
them marrying. 
Dr. John Huffman said he 

supports Proposition 22. the 
controversial measure on 
Ttmsday's ballot that would bar 
gay marriages from official 
recognition in California. 
"Love the sinner, hate the 

sin." Huffman said. "I am not 
prepared to declarn that what 
the Bible says is sin is no longer 
sin." 
With the election just two days 

away, churchgoers around 
California struggled with how to 
vote on a meac;ure that has gal­
vanized and divided the reli­
gious community. 
Leadf'rs of Mormon, Roman 

Catholic and evangelical 
Christian churches support 
Proposition 22. Three Southern 
California bishops -Episcopal, 
Lutheran and Methodist ­
issued a joint statement oppos­
ing it, saying it could lead to dis­
crimin a ti on. On Friday. the 
Roman Catholic priest who 
heads the Los Angeles 
Arc:hdioc:ese's ministry to gays 
and lesbians also publicly 
opposed it. 
Huffman titled his sermon 

"The Bible. Homosexuality and 
Proposition 22." 
"God c:alled his people to sexu­
al purity -a man and a woman committed to each other," he said. 
Church elders at St. Andrew's voted last month to support Proposition 22. 
"We feel. as Christians. we should be taking a stand on that, a loving stand, and basical­1y be supporting marriage br-tween a man and a woman," said Pam Metherell, 56, an elder. 
The issue was on the minds of 200 Mormons gathering at a suburban Sacramento church for a monthly sac:rament meet­ing. Churc:h member John Tennant urged the c:ongregation to pray for Proposition 22's pas­sage. 
In liberal San Francisco. a forum at an Episcopal church failed to attrac:t any proponents of the measure. 
San Francisco Supervisor Mark Leno, who is gay, called the proposition "mean-spirited," pointing out that gay marriages aren't allowed in California. 
"It's a completely bogus argu­ment," he said. 
California does not allow same-sex marriages, and that won't change whether Proposition 22 passes or fails. The measure would keep California from recognizing same-sex marriages allowed elsewhere. 
No other state allows such marriages, but proponents argue Vermont is close enough to make the initiative a neces­sary preemptive strike. 

The Notre Dame Music Department Guest Lecture Series presents 
Robert Kendrick 
Associate Professor at the University of Chicago 

"A Courtesan's Musical Prayer, or, Was Barbara Strozzi Putting Us On in 1656?" 
Monday, March 6, 4:30 pm Room 124 Crowley Hall 

The lecture is free and open to the public. For more information, call 631-6201 or visit www.nd.edu/-music. 

OFFICE ASSISTANT NEEDED 
Monday/Wednesday Mornings Tuesday Afternoons 

Study: Hand-washing stops infection 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
Infec:tions contracted in hospitals kill as many as 88,000 people· each year, a number that c:ould be reduced with inc:reased use of technol­ogy and simple measures suc:h as more frequent hand washing, a researcher said Sunday at a conference on the problem. 
The U.S. Centers for Disease Control opened a five-day conf'crenc:e on preventing and reduc:ing healthcare-associat­ed infec:tions in Atlanta. 
Dr. Hic:hard Wenzel, chair­man of the internal medicine department at the Medical College of Virginia said new devic:es sur,h as catheters coated with antibiolics have prov1m effective against inf'ec­ti 011 spread at health fac:ili­ties. 
But those arc still far cost­lier than simple but equally necessary steps as getting doctors and nurses to wash their hands after every patient contact, he said. 

"Hand-washing is cheap, 
percent in the 1990s in med­ical intensiv(' care units at :mo fac:ilities that report to the government. 
The infections typically are caused by catheters. intra-
but the impact from it is great," Wenzel said. 
Us in g what he called con­servative estimates, Wenzel r,alculated 
venous lines and breathing "Hand-washing is cheap, tubes c:om­
mon to most
but the impact from it 
hospital
is great." stays. Such devices allow bac:teria easy
Richard Wenzel 
entrv into the
chairman of internal medicine at 
body.Medical College of Virginia Wenzel said 
that bloodstream infections contracted at health care facilities c:ould be the nation's eighth leading cause of death. claiming more than 25.000 pr.ople ear,h year. 
On Thursday, the CDC reported that the rate of such infec:tions fell by about 44 
simply plac­
ing an alcohol dispenser at each patient bed cut blood infection rates by 40 perc:cnt in onP. hospital because workers disinfected their hands morn often. 
Another effective mPthod is for doctors to model good habits in front of r,ollcagues and medical students. 
THE TASTY BACON CHEDDAR WHOPPER~ 
T H I N K O F I T A S A W H O P P ER® T H A T ' S DRESSED UP WITH SOMEPLACE TO GO, 

THE WHOPPER' WITH A NEW TWIST FOR A LIMITED TIME. 
·----------· -----· If you're already a fan of "America's Favorite Burger,"* why not try it a whole ;-e-;~~y? 
With crispy bacon and melted cheddar cheese, it's sure to put a smile on your face. 
APPLICATIONS AT: 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE 

So head to a BURGER KING$ restaurant soon and make sure to bring your appetite. 
315 UFORTUNE 

The Huddle -Lafortune Student Center 

----------~-----­
Monday, March 6, 2000 
The Obm·ver . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Bradley, McCain struggle as 'Super Tuesday' approaches 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Fighling to stay alivf', linpublican John Mr.Cain on Sunday qunsLionPd whnlhnr (;r.orgP W. Bush is "rl'ady for prinrn timn.. 
a n d Drmocrat Hill Bradlny sugg'l'StPd that votf'rs rnn "bandy tolPnttP" Al (;nrf', as tlw prnsidm1tial nomination rac1:s hnad f'or a climadir multistatc showdown Tu,,sdav. 
";\ happy ll1'1,-_" McCain rPplicd. wlwn askrd wlrnl was in storp if hi' f'arPd poorly. 
Th,, two unct,,rdogs PXprr.ssPd i-onf'idPnce as thr.y madr Lil(' TV talk shuw rounds, PVr.n as aides bracr.d f'or th!' worst by qni!'tly mak­ing plans !'or dignifir.d exits. Bradlry advisrrs acknowl­PcigPd lw has littlf' rhanrr of' loosening thP vicP pn:isident's grip on f'Vrry "SupPr Tursday" statP. ThP Md:ain tr.am hrld out hopr l'or an e]AcLion night surprisr. 
l)(~spitr. months or aC'rimony, MrCain rulrd out running as a third-party candidalr.. and both undrrdogs said they could support thrir rivals in df'f('at. McCain. stung by nrl{a­tivr ads. qualil'ird his plr.dgP to bark tlw GOP nominr.e ii" it is Bush: "I expPct GovPrnor Bush to chanl{r I exprrt him to run an nntirrly diffcrr.nt 

campaign than the kind that he's nm in this primary." 
Speaking with reporters Sunday in Oakland. Calif., a conf'idPnt Bush said he had plans f'or the party when lrn bccomr.s its nominee for presi­dent. 
"I int,rnd to unify the party and then I intl'nd to reach out like 1·ve donr. in the state of 

Tpxas and McCain attr11rt vot­ors who may not have come into our primary." the Texas governor said. 
Hopublicans compete Tuesdav in 13 statrs f'or 613 d1'1egati:s, and Democrats bat­tle in 15 states for I.315 dele­gatrs --morr than half the total f!ach party ri>quires of its nominees. Spanning from Main<' to California. the con­tests amounted to the closest lhl' rountry has ever coml' to a national primary. 
While Bratlley is foundering across the board, MrCain is doing well in New England but is thrratened by the Texas governor everywhere else: 
. 
New York is close. with new polls giving Bush an edge. 

. 
Bush holds a yawning lead over McCain among California Republicans, who a,vard 162 delegates in the winner-take­


. all primary. The Arizona sena­tor could still win the state's 
nonbinding popular vote, which would give him shaky platform Lo argue he is the better gimeral election candi­d at<'. Of that scenario, Bush said: "First H's important to get the drlegatrs Thi' drle­gatcs are what determine who 
becomes the nominee." 
. Bush holds wide leads in Georgia. Missouri and Ohio. 
Their battleground shrink­ing, McCain advisers believe he must win NAw York. Ohio, all of New England and the nonbinding popular vote in California to stay in the race. Campaign manager nick Davis calle~ Ohio "the, ~lee per 
story. berause McCain must overcome a 25-point dAlicit in the polls to make his long-shot sc<'nario a rPality. 
Campnigning in l\'ew York and Ohio. Mr,Cain unleashed a scathing indictment of Bush's environmental record in Texas. as well as his presiden­tial campaign tactics. 
"They're getting more and more like the Clint.on cam­paign," McCain said in Cleveland. comparing the 1996 Clinton administration t'und-raising scandal to a $2 million ad campaign by Hush allies. 
The Texas governor denied involvement in the ad cam­paign. but refused to ask his allies to pull the ads. saying, "That's what free speech is all about." 
McCain said the ads criticiz­ing his environmental record in the Senate illustrate why he wants to overhaul the financ­ing of federal campaigns. things that matter to 

"Governor Bush ought to be i\merirnns," said Bush. who ashamed of this," he said. tak­appeared on CBS and ABC's ing a swipe at Bush's own "This Week." environmental record by call­Bradley was less critical of ing Texas the "worst violator" his rival than McCain, but of clean air regulations. p11ssed up a chance to say 
Dush also is running ads in Gore was honorable. "I think New York state questioning he distorted the record," he McCain's commitment to fight­said. "I had hoped that we 
ing breast cancer. McCain's could get to an election where sister suffers from the disease. people could be choosing and Bush said last week that between two politicians they is "all the more reason to esteem as opposed to one they remind" can barr.ly McCain of his toleratri." record. "/ had hoped that we He did say 
"I wonder if he thought
could get to an election
someone who the nega­would treat a where people could be tivity of the situation like campaign
choosing between two 
that is ready h a d
politicians they esteem
for prime "ca Im e d 
time," McCain as opposed to one they down" in said Sunday, 
can barely tolerate." the last 
his eyes nar­two weeks. rowing as he G o r e shrugged his Bill Bradley acknowl­shoulders. Democratic presidential edged cas­
lie compared ing on
candidate up 
Bush to Steve Bradley, if' Forbes, whose not drop­picked apart ping him Hob Dole's Senate record in altogether from his stump 
the 1996 GOP primary. speeches. But Gore said that "This kind of negative attack didn't mean he assumes he just shows that Bush wants to has locked up the nomination. 
win in the worst way," said "I thought that his tone McCain, who appeared on changed in the last several CBS's "Face the Nation" and days with far less of the 
NBC's "Meet the Press." attacks that have become 
Bush said McCain's position commonplace and I wanted to on breast cancer is document­reciprocate," Gore told ed on his Internet site. "My reporters as he traveled to response (to McCain) is the Cranston. R.I., to discuss Republican Party and indepen­seniors' health issues. Gore dents are going to nominate also was endorsed Sunday by me because I'm talking about the Philadelphia Inquirer. 

Please, come back me. -­


Visi-t Jesus 1n ­Eucharis-tic Adora-tion_ 
Monday 11 :30 p.m. to Tuesday 10:00pm in Fisher Hall 
Friday 12:00pm-5:00pm, Lady Chapel-, Basilica 
Eucharistic Ad.orat±on j_s-sponsored by Campus M±nistry. :?:..:;,.,-,.-:0:s;..5::.:.;:.:.:..":k."<2£' -__;,-,,-'' _ =-~:-:· for more information or to sign up for a p~rID.anent hal£-hour or hour sLot. 
VIEWPOINT 
O
TIIE page 10 BSERVER Monday, March 6, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, 'iurrc 0,une. IN 46556 024 ~ourh Dming H...ll. Nurre: [);1me, IN 46556 
EUITOR IN CHIEF Mirheile Kmpa 

MANAGING El>IT0K  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. %:11111011 Ryan  D.ivid Rogero  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Petelle  

NEWS EmroR: Tim Log•n Vll'.Wl'OlNT EmTOR: Colleen Gaughen SroRTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT M,IRY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan l.mz 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Brer Huelat SYSTEMS AOMIN!STKAl'OR: Micb:1el Rever< WER ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushto 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO.............631-74 7 1 FAx.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHiff........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME. ................... 631-454I BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-53!3 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 

V!EWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. view poi n r. l@nd.edu SroRTS......................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAl'IT MARY'S............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO.......................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................631-88 39 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at lmp:llobren,er.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-ro-rhe 
movies/music for 

minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 

advenise for policies 
online features for spe­

and rares of prim ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer 

articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
staff

August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe Universitv of Notre Dame du Lac and Sainr Marv's College. F.ditoria\ content, including adverriseme~ts, is not governed bv policies ofrhe administration ofeither insticution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverrisements hased on content. 
The news i.s reponed as accurarelv and objectively as possible. Unsigned eclirorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chic!; Managing Editor. Assisunt Managing Editor and departmenl editors. Commencadcs. leuers and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. Lerrers to rhe Editor must be signed and must inc\udc contact information. 
Questions reg11rrli11g Ob.1emer poliries should he direct­rd to Fditor in Chi,fMichrl!r K111p11 

Last Wednesday, a l'\otre Dame stu­dent r,hucke<l an empty watM bottle onto the court in the closing seconds of the men's basketball game against Syracuse. which prompted the referees to whistle a techni­cal foul on the Irish and potentially cost them the match and a berth in the NCAA tournament. 
rpersonally believe that whoev­er supplied that particular person with the water bot­tle should be pun­ished. After all, ifit can happen at Notre Dame, it can happen anywhere. 
That's about the silliest thing you've ever heard, right? Now, read that last paragraph again and replace "water bottle" with "gun" and "Notre Dame" with "Columbine" or "Mount Morris Township, Mich." Odds are many of you would believe that statement then. 
By no means am I equating th<' tragedies of school violence with the travesty of the Syracuse game. I'm sure I speak for the team when I say that when compared to Columbine or Mount Morris Township (where a six-year-old boy shot a classmate last week), the result of the game last week or its implications -or even the game in general -become minutely insignifi­cant. 
However, some connections can be made. The water bottle itself isn't to blame for Wednesday night's incident. 
Whoever sold the water bottle isn't. The NWBA, National \\later Bottin Association, isn't. Scenes from video games or music videos or movies where water bottles are thrown aren't. The only person at fault was the kid who threw the water bottle. !\lo one disputes that. But when two teenagers plot for over a year to murder their fellnw stu-dents, fingers arc pointed at the guns, whoever sold them. the NRA, video games, MTV, Holly,vood -in short. anyone and everyone except Dylan 


Klebold and Eric Harris. 
When a six-year-old grows up in a decrepit home environment surrounded by guns and drugs and then shoots Kayla Holland, a six-year-old classmate, President Clinton blames the Hepublican-led Congress: "They have done nothing and meanwhile ... every single day there are 13 children who die from guns in this country." 
Gun control advocates believe that their programs can prevent future Columbines. But the 20,000 gun laws that are already on the books haven't stopped anything. What makes them so sure lhat the 20,001 st law will work? 
The plain and simple truth is that it won't. Rough and easy proof: The four areas with the strictest gun control laws in the nation are New York City, Chicago, Los Angeles and Washington, 
D.C. Fourteen percent of America's murders occur in these havens of gun­control legislation. Why is that? Well, the phrase may be trite or stale, but "when guns are outlawed, only outlaws will have guns." Common criminals can get weapons as easily as fans can get watc1r bottles -legislation or no legis­lation In areas where it is next to impossible for law-abiding citiznns to exercise their Second Amendment rights, the criminals have the market cornered. 
But where guns are less restrictnd, crime goes down. Professor John Lott of the University of Chicago noted that "when state concealed handgun laws went into effect in a county, murders fell by 8.5 percent, and rapes and aggravated assaults fell by five percent and seven percent [rr,spectivclyJ." In fact, the reason why a school rampage in Pearl, Miss. ended was that Joel Myrick, the assistant principal, went to his car to get his gun. 
So what can be done? Step one is to proporly prosecutn illegal uses of firearms. A Syracuse University study found that from 1992 to 1998. prosecu­

tions of illegal uses of firearms dropped 
46 percent. However. prosecution has 
to be done without punishing rnsponsi­
ble gun owners. 
In 1997, criminologist Gary Kleck estimated that more than 2.5 million people a year defend themselves lawful­ly with firearms. But no one ever hears about this fact because of the din of the constant drum-beating for gun-control legislation targeted at responsible gun owners. 
ror example, President Clinton's lat­est brainchild are so-cal!Pd "smart guns"-firearms electronically protnct­ed so only the adult owner can use them. Why is this even an option'? If the motlrnr of the six-year-old in Michigan was a responsible gun owner, these gadgets wouldn't have been necessary. If irresponsible gun owners were pun­ished properly, there would be no need for this legislation. 
The Washington Times states. "What matters is who has his hands on the weapon -not the weapon itself." It sounds so simple: throw a water bottle, you're to blame, you get punished; shoot someone, you're to blame, you get punished. 
When I was a kid, I was always told that "when you point your finger at someone, you havP three lingnrs point­ing back at you." Gun-control activists should heed this advice instead of con­tinuing to push worthless legislation while blaming everything else for today's gun problems. 
Mike Marchand is an a.ff-campus junior English major who belieues we should find the guy who threw the water bottle on Wednesday night, then throw things at him while he's taking his midterms. This column appears every other Monday and his e-mail address is Marchand.3@nd.edu. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Obseruer. 
DILBERT 
E -~========:=:====:::-1 
8 IN SIX WEEKS OUR ~ 
THIS WILL BE ; l. T. PEOPLE Wlll 
YOUR CUBICLE. i CONNECT YOU TO
I 
THE NETWORK 50 YOU CAN DO YOUR JOB. 

SCOTT ADAMS 
I'LL STOP BY EVERY FEW 
MINUTES TO SEE WHAT YOU'RE DOING. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"In Columbine, those two murderers broke 18 laws on the books. You could pass 50, but the problem is, bad people still do bad things." 
Wayne LaPierre Vice-President of the National Rifle Association 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Monday, March 6, 2000 BSERVER page 11 
We all have crossed the line 
It S('<'lllS we an• all agreed thal tlw "wat1,rboy" crossed Urn line. That lin<' is one we all walk ovary day and somotinrns cross our­sPlvns. Ile just did it in a ver:v pub-lie and juve­nilP way. Bridget TherP is no 
O'Connor

excuse for _______ what he di(l. Kickin, new D1ispito two fl warnings, a nor in including a your ear dir(wt appoal frnm tho !wad coach. lw ruuld not oVPtTOlll(' the childish impulse to throw a l'oweradtl bottle in frus­tration. Tim ext(mt of the stupidity of his action has hl•en thoruughly explored and expressed in various f'ormats bv students, alumni and staff of the\ llniversitv in both cam­pus and other media outlets. Somri of the discoursf'.S (particu­larly those on tlrn lnternot) have demonstrated that thP waterbov is not alonP in being unable to deal with his emotions appropriately. Whilr these postings an' unlikely to cost the men's basketball team postscason chances, they reflect a lcvPI of' immaturity and poor judg­nwnt on par with that shown by tlw waterhoy himself. I!is misbr.havior has also 
brought the image of tho student body as a who!!' into question as h<'ing on<' of Alfi ll h . 
obnoxious, ter a · e ZS not t e rSl L'niv~rsity and destructiv11 person in this University to its outstanding f'ans. trample on the long hours student ambas-
Those who ,f'h d k ,f' .f' sadors only
rngularly OJ ar war OJ a group OJ enhances the attPnded men's dedicated students. pressure of sue-
moment, the waterboy forgot he was at a basketball game, thought ho was holding a squid or dead fish and it was lml(time at a Fool.­ball game. 
After all. he is not tho first per­son in this Lniversity to l.rarnple on the long hours of hard work or a group of dedicated students. 
Last year when the band was repeat(~dly pelted with marine lifP, its members were olTended and incensed. Fortunatelv. the collec­tivo student bodv roturnod to its senses and focused on getting hammered and pelting flach other with marshmallows and other assortt~d ii.ems. For the little girl that was injured during those ind-dents and the numerous families and fans unlucky enough lo get seats in the vicinity of the student section. the impact of students crossing the line of acceptability was already all too familiar. 
Every weekend in residence halls, bars and other social set­tings, students cross the line from fun and social to out of control, dangerous and disgusting. There is not a big difference bf'tw11en outrageous and obnoxious but once you've gone across tho line -as the waterboy knows all too \Veil -you cannot take it back. 
The added pressure of maintain­ing the prnviously pristine image h fi of the 

basketball gamPs this season will hopef'u!ly disagn•c with thesP. mischaracteri­mtions of the student section. or "tlw sixth man," as it is introduced bPforn every home game. Until the Syracus!' game. basketball gamr,s won\ -with a few exceptions -a rf'i'rpshing rombination of exriting alhl<:tic performance. high crowd nnNgy and generally good bchav­ior. Unlike football games, the stu­dl'nt seclion was lilied with lircd­up, knowledgeable and, for th<: most part, sob<~r and coherrnt supportPrs. 
LinfortunatPly, as thP mPn on the court tried to meet the mounting prPss1m• of' a two-point deficit with under 10 seconds left in the ganw lo hold on to NCAA tourna­nwnt hopPs, it became too much f'or the watPrboy and he respond-Pd by sending his Poweradr, bottle into orbit. 
I.Pl us not forget that he is not alorw in crossing the line. Two others in the l'.rowd bad done it lwf'orn him. ThPir i1iPntities and wlwrnabouts arc not !wing circu­latNI or their saf'ntv threatennd. Nor should limy b1{ But !o pin this all 011 tlw head of a single sopho­mon• is crossing the lint• as well. 
l'nrhaps in the heat of the 
ceeding in all aspects of a well-rounded college life-;_ Every day we, like many other college students across the coun­try. are faced with decisions about how to spend our time and energy. Those who choose to take the challenge and compete with the best of both worlds (academic and social) arc faced with decisions of how much is too much in either aspect of their lives. 
Sometimes we, like the water-boy, make the wrong choice and go overboard in one direction or the other. Granted, we don't do it in front of the entire student bodv and a national television audiende with less than 10 seconds on the dock and down by two points, but the idea is the same. 
All we can do is take each deci­sion as it comes, learn from his and our mistakes and leave the Powerade at home. 
Hridget is a senior majoring in gor,ernment and Irish studies. Her column appears ez•ery olher Monday and she can he rcaclwd lly e-mail at u·connor.67@nd.edu. 
The r,fows expressrd in this c·ol­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Don't discriminate in church 

There are very few tinrns in my life when J have felt so out of place as I did Saturday at the 5 p.m. mass at the Basilica. I felt more ostraci.t:ed than when I went to mass in the crypt church covPrnd in paint from Christmas in April last year. This time I was not covered in paint, but when l walked into the Basilica there WPre several pi~ople in tuxedos and fur coats. This was the weekend to recognize scholarship and fellowship donors. 
Now, I don't have anything against this group of people. In fact if it wasn't for them, I wouldn't be :it Notre Dame today, What I am against is the ushers asking everyone who was not in formal attire, "Could you please sit in the side aisle today, the center section is reserved." 
I cringed in disgust every time one of the ushers had to sav this, so did the ushers. This was not plannee!" by the ushers, or by the donors. In fact, all the donors who were sit­ting next to me were extremely nice. 
I kept thinking about the Dark Ages when the peasants had to stand way at the back of the church and were not allowed to partake of communion, especially of the blood of Christ. 
The Basilica is a small church. How impor­tant is it that someone sits in the center aisle, or five feet away in the side aisle? Generally, I am proud to be a Domer. I like telling people how great Notre Dame is and what wonderful people live, work and study here. As I spend more and morn time here, there are many instances that make mo ashamed to be a Domer. These include tossing an octopus, a fish and a frog (who almost caused a little girl to lose an eye) at_ football games. insults towards our athlete classmates, derogatory comments aimed at players from other schools in basketball and hockey games and tossing water bottles on the court at basket­ball games. I realize that this is the minority of lhe student body, but they are still repre­sentatives of our University. They are the rot­ten apples that give everyone here, and the University of Our Lady a bad image. 
Saturday I had to watch as people who wanted to get to mass early and get a good seat were asked to leave their seats to make room for the donors. Is there something wrong with this? While I realize that the gen­erosity of the scholarship and fellowship donors should be recognized, and that these wonderful people deserve respect and admi­ration, this should not be done by making members of the Notre Dame and South Bend community who do not have the resources to be so generous feel inferior. 
Salvadora Hernandez 
Junior 
Lewis Hall March 5, 2000 
Reaction to 'Waterboy' is shameful 
One can't attribute final outcomes in reality to "what-if' scenarios that could radically change the path of'the outcome. 
Does the thrower's rash act of civil disobedi­ence warrant death threats? Does it warrant perpetual threats of being b<'aten? Does it warrnnl threals and harassing phone calls made to his parents? llis parents, for (~od's sake! (Humor has it they had to shut down their phone to escape the calls.) The l.hrower can't go to his room anymore; he's staying elsewhere lo avoid being harassed. His room­mates no long<lr have the use of a phone dufl to tlrn inabilit;-to escape the perpetual stream of malevolent solicitations. Stanford locked its doors early this wePk to avoid lynchers coming 
The thrower is not a bad person. The stu­dents have not done anything on the court that deserves the scrutiny that they have received recently. .Just remember to act with a little ml>rc class after the game has ended. It is. after all, just a game. 
Ryan Moodie Sophomore St. Edward's Hall 
Anhtuan Do Sophomore Keough Ha/1 March 3, 2000 
Got something to say? Write to us! 
observer. viewpoint.] @nd edu 


Farley boasts history of cherry bombs and smokers 
l\iinc out of 1 O Notre Dame students associate the word ··smokers" with Farlr,y Hall, locatr.d on North Quad, rn,xt to the ;\/orth Dining Hall. 
"I think this is an odd stereotype to diwl'lop," says Farlt'V rcsidr.nt Amanda Baker. "I have smoked before, Ollr.i.' or twice. Okav. it was morn like four or fivr,. 
Katie Sanders 

Weli. I guess I smoke occasionally. Only about om• cigarettP a day. except for whf'n I'm stressed. then 
Farley Hall 

it's a few more. But I would not call 
Ue.,;ident

mvself' a 'smoker."' 
()ther Farlev residents erho this fear of b(•ing typecast. "It's not as if every person in thic; dorm smokes." says sophomorn Susan \VislPr. "Om' girl in my section dopsn't." 
I!all ro-prcsident Jenny Gerari notes that the little front porrh slwltPring nicotine addicts is not tlw only remarkablr. thing about Farlr.y Hall. 
"We are a close dorm with many great activitit1s and a rich history." she says. 
Farley Itall. after its opening in 1942, housed 200 freshmen men. In the pre-mod quad days, it was thought to be almost off-rampus. The male residrnts ""ere not known as smokers. but instead got the n:putation for having thr healthiest legs on campus because of thr. long walk to South Dining Hall. a full 965 str.ps by onf' resi­dent's count. 
Father Theodorr. 1-lesburgh, among various othrr accomplishments. was the first rector ol' Farley. At the timr.. Fathrr Hesburgh divided his time bAtwAen writing a book. tear.bing four classes. heading the Theology department and taming the freshmen mr.n -the last perhaps the most daunting of the tasks. This yAar at a Farley Mass. Father Hesburgh related the story ora hall r.onflict from the early days. Some unknown perpPtrator set off a cherrv bomb in the stairwell. Father I!P-sburgh gathen·d all of the boys in the hall together for a mAet­ing, explained his intolerance for this type ol' bfllrnvior and pulled out his own supply of cherry bombs. a rather large box. lie threatened to set off one cherry bomb cvnry hour on the hour until the guilty party came I'or­ward. It seems that the Farlev men valued their sleep becausP the cherry bomb prriblem promptly ended. 
No cherry bomb problems have plagued the curnmt rer.tor. SistPr Carrine Etheridge. but she sp8nds her time keeping the women busy. Like most dorms on campus. Farley can boast a number of' inlr.rhall sports teams, Sunday and weekly Masses and various service activities. Besides the smokr,r slereotypP, thP rest of campus knows Farley best for Pop Farley WPnk. This week. named in honor of Rever<\nd Farlev. consists ol' Mass and activities. wlminating in a very el,{boratcly dr.corated <lane.A on Saturday. Thn decorating is a rnntcist that the SPctions take very seriously. most section members staying in on Friday night to help. 

Farley residenLs fr.el very centrally located on campus. with short walks to LaFortune, the library, Rolfs and the North Dining l lall (although on nice days many girls still make tho 9(>5 stnp trek to South for tlw arguably bntter food!. 
/\!though Far]p,y residents may or may not fit. tlw smok­nr stereotype, tho majority of girls are rnady to praisP their rcsidcnco hall. Perhaps tlrnir lovr. grows l'rom the little porch wlrnrn they can find smoking camaradcriP, but morn likely. they love Farley for orn' of' tlw otlwr al'orenwntioned reasons. 
The views t':rpressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obserrer. 
Carroll is hotbed of politics, service and unity 
This time of year is particularly dif1icult for lhP residents of' Carroll I !all. The early morning walk across the frozen tundra. otherwise known as South Quad. can br. drnadful. \'\'hile most dorms' entranr.es open up dirrn;tly onto cam­pus, the Verrnins' walk to ()'Shag or Dr.bartolo can take up to 15 min­
Casey

utrs. That student in vour 8:30 a.m. class who alwavs walks in five min­Grabenstein utes latr with r;ostbite on his face Ls probably from Carroll. And the long 
Carroll !!all 

walk l'rom Carroll to the South 
Resident

Dining Hall has led to a dose rela­tionship brtwecn Carroll residents and thr. Pizza. Man. 
l!owevPr. the Vermin take their unique position in stridP and with a sense of humor. During the Super Bowl. 01w group of second flour rnsidenl'i actually invited the delivery man from Wolfin's lo their room to watch the sncond quarter of'th<' game. 

Carroll Hall also wanL,; to give everyone on campus a chance to see what it is likr. to be a Vermin for a day. In the works are plans for a major dorm event r.allPd "The Carro!l Hall Music Festival: A celebra­tion of' food and music." Food will be providr.d by Carroll's favorite order-out businr.ssr•s, Wolfie's, Domino's and Papa John's will all br. on the mt~nu. The date of thn ewnt is set f'nr April 8. Although a. music act has not been secured, th(' Avent coordinators lrnvn con­tacted Otis Day and tlw Knights (yns. the same guys from "Animal Ilouse") and arc confident that tlwy will pr.r­forrn on the Carroll lawn. /\II proreeds go to the Makr.-r\.-Wish-Foundation. 

Besides being the most isolated dorm on campus. Carroll is also the smallnst dorm with 104 rcsident.s. This small population has lr.d to an unparnllelnd snnse of' brotherhood. Most residents know each other by name and always extend a helping hand. Brian Coughlin. Carroll's rector of two years. livnd in Grace I tall during his under~raduatn years and rnnmrks. "Carroll is on the oppositP Pnd of lhP spN·.trum in relation to the; biggPr dorms. The students hern aro very clos(1 and r.ommittod to each othor." 
This closi>rrnss and unity has lnd to a devotion and com­mitment to Notre Dame and the community. Carroll I !all donatAd morn coal<; and jackets ror Projoct Warmth than any other dorm on campus. Many Vermin also spend thrir weeknights visiting the mentally handicapped Logan CPnter residents. Sophomorn Pat Brennan. who leads many of the proj(1cL-;, slatns, "The turnout lHL'i been great. The rnsidenl'i of the Lnga.n CPnter have enjoyPd talking with the guys as well as coming to Carroll to play pool and watch movies." The Vermin have also provided activities su<'h as bingo night<; and basketball nighLs for guPSL'i at tlrn South Bend Center for the I·lonrnlcss. 

Carroll !lall has also bnen a hotbed of political activity lately. Sophomon's Bob Leblanc and DominiquP /\ngiollo wnn-1 o!fictod dorm co-presidents by one vol<' in a hr.atPd clnr.tion. Junior Elliot Nelson's tir.kct !'or prPsid0.nt of' th1' class of' 2001 foll short but managed to garner over 40 percent of' tlrn run-off vote. Carroll's own .Jonathan Jorissm1 was <'lPcted president of the class of 2002 by gathering (>7 p<1rcent of the vote in a landslide victory. 
Living in Carroll is a unique expnrionce. Thr. unity and brotlwrhood of thn dorm promotes the growth of' lnaders and S<lrvice-rnindcd individuals. I Iowover, br,rnuse of' iL'i locality. not many Notre Dame studPnts have vcnturr.d out to tho home of tho Vermin. Everyone at sonrn point should exporiencn a tastP of Carroll lifo. Hopefully. everyonr. can mak<' it. out to thn Carroll lawn on tho 8th of /\pril to expe­ri1rnce the Food and Music of the Vermin. 
The ciews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Monday, March 6, 2000 page 13 
Acknowledging good-byes: a tip to graduating seniors 
(;raduation is near' This is usually the time of' Vt'ar that nrnmbr.rs of the Senior Class su;rl lo PXp<'ri0nc0 this rnalilv vcrv different­ly. In thP areas of fricndships·. dating rela­tionships and post gradu­ation plans. tlwre will b(• University new prnssu rps as this 
Counseling

limrlinP marches for­
Center

ward. For some individu­als. thc,y c·1u111rlt begin to think about tlw fac:t that 
health column 

gradu,ttion is a nwrn two months awav wilhoul rt\senting an.yo1rn who brings it up. For l110sr who alrnady know their carccr plans and havP sPcurcd position::; in thP work world. volunt.PPr SPrvirn and/or graduate and pro­f'<•ssional school. tlwre is a grPat deal to look forward to. SnnlP look ahl'ftd eagPrly, waiting to movl' on. and others may bl' apprehensivl' about tlw transition f'rorn college to tlw rwxt lf'vl'l. For those who do not know what tlwy arl' doing. do not havP a sprrifir job offpr in hand or dread 1011.ving '-Jotr·l\ Danw. it 1s a difficult timr.. NPw frirndships and romantic rPlationships may havP dr,vl'iopf'd this VPar or rrlation­ship~ chang0d aftf>r studying abroad or mPPting n<"v\' peoplP on-and off-campus. . 
Tht' f'art that most· ~l-l"-•_•"~• 
Slmiors will not br 
;-;;:~;;:1::~~I~;'. ~:;~re ~ •·,
I_ ·-,~~...~ 

may put prrssurP . ;. ,"·· ..•7 ,, ~ on thos!' involvrd ' , / r, ' ­to labrl. dPfinc. /. . f, ',..c·: figurP out or ~ ', , 'tf '. ­
prnjPct into thP ~{-n 7 -_:_ · l'utun• about ;r, ·· · ··· 
·___,, 

what tlws1' t·on­1wrtions mPan in ways that Llw <'!Hl of prl'vious yPars did not dl'mand. 
\ 

11· tlwrP was f'VPr a tinw to rPsprt't individual 
er

difTrrPnrt'S. this i.s it. Transitions bring out both tlw \ ·"sJ.
:fl 
\ -·~·

lwst and worst in all of us. Sonw peo-p!P nrrd more timt' away or spar!' f'rom sign il1rnnl others to ligurP out how th PY J'Prl and want to p,:o­l'<'!'d. Sonw individuals want to Lalk about how vu lnPrablP and unrrrtain tlwv r,,PI and worrv that tlwv wili bf' judgt•d and.rritirizPd·. Sonw individuals may strugglP with how to f'ppj pridP in thr,ir a1:complishments whcn othPrs th<~y care about atT still uncPrlain. 
/1. i'Pw individunls mav boast of their accomplish1rn\11ls with<iut acknowlrdging any Pmpathy for tl10st' who arc still trying to S(\t'Ur«' tlwir nPxt strp. In the samr. rPsidr.ncc hall scction or off-campus housing situation rould livr sornronf' who has rnceived ma.nv ,iob olTPrs or lPttrrs of nccPptanre to grad~­aL<i or prol'Pssional srhools. and someone who has rHcnivnd non!'. This can stir up a multitude ol' f'r,clings !'or both parties. Som<' pPoplr worry that thPy rannot cclrbratc tl1Pir succrss without appl'aring insensitivP to thosP \\'ho ,m' waiting. On the otlrnr hand. it rnakPs pPrfrct sens!' that prople would want to cel<'bratP and sharr acr.omplishrnents. The individuals who haVt'. rcccivnd rcjer.tions or r·ontinuc to br~ in limbo naturally worry and lrnvP foar about what lies alrnad for them. A lengthy job search process. ror most individ­uals. is diffkult and tahs a toll on the indi­vidual's sell'-confidence. 
Many timrs, instr.ad of doing the hard work of talking about and inviting people to share their perspectives, people start to talk less and friendships that once mrant so much start to feel strained. Individuals can also err in the other directiun and feel like every minute should be spr.nt processing the status of' tlrn relationship and what will happen next. This was not tho way anyone thought that srcond semcstr.r of srnior yrar was going to be. Af'tl'r many memories over the courst1 or thesr years. surely awkwardness will not prevail llnwP\'er. it does when peo­ple are afraid to take the risk to do the h,Lrd work of acknowledging each other and accepting that people may fePI differently about this semester. graduation and life after graduation. 
Whv is it so hard Lo talk about these diffc~r­ences? We do not want Lo appear anxious, inadequatP. uncomfortable or unsure so we 
do not talk. We avoid talking or we prntend that everything is OK. Most people are too smart to buy this, but they play along by not pointing out that them is discomfort. We magically believe that if' we do not talk about it, it will go away and everything will be fine. It bears repeating: _ · ~ If there was ever a , time to respect indi­~Pv \ vidual differences. "-";q-' ~\ this is it. Take the . 1~ risk to go ahead ' 1 and talk about 
your different perspectives with your friends. and 
listen without judging how your own or your friends' 
transition to graduation "should" be. Ar.cept that you and your friends 
share this com­
mon experience, but in unique ways. You are all 
going through many endings and beginnings, which 
naturally brings up feelings of loss. uncertainty. sad­ness. exr.itement. regrets. anxir.ty and anticipation. Even your perception of time changes as you go through a transition. Whereas you used to pri­marily attend to the present day-to-day realities of r.ollege life. now your aw,lreness of time expands to include the past, the pre­
sent and the future. Give yourself and your friends permission to exprPss all that you are going through. Try not to let your disromfort with acknowledging good-byes get in the way or remaining connected. You may br going through this transition in your own unique ways. but your emotional and spiritu­al connection with your friends will tran­scr.nd as you move on toward your journeys ahead. 
The intent ofthis monthly series ofarticles is not to prouiclc counseling but to provide in.formation about a variety ofmental heahh lopics. To seek help with your individual con­cerns. please contact the Uniuersity Counseling Center at 631-7336 to schedule an appointment. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

AP ENTERTAINMENT BRIEFS 

Photo courtesy of TriStar Pic1ures As he did In "Philadelphia," Hanks undergoes physical transfor­mations to play a plane crash survivor in "Cast Away." 
Tom Hanks plays gaunt castaway 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. 

A slimmer Tom Hanks is due in Memphis next month to film parts of a movie in which he plays an island castaway, a spokes­woman says. 
Hanks plays a workaholic Federal Express executive who sur­vives a plane crash and is stranded alone on a small island in the film "Cast Away," a 20th Century Fox and DreamWorks studios production with Robert Zemeckis directing. 
While on the remote island. Hanks has to "r.ompletely transform himself both physir.ally and emotionally in order to survive his r.ir­rumstance... Russell said. 
The film began production in early 1999 with scenes in Los Angeles and Moscow, but it had to take an eight-month break while Hanks lost more than 40 pounds to give his character a gaunt look when he returned to civilization. 
Julia Roberts takes pride in Southern roots 
NEW YORK 

Julia Roberts is proud to be a Southern girl. 
The Smyrna, Ga., native told the New York Daily News for Sunday's editions that her Southern background "manifests in two ways." 
"Good manners and care taking. I say. 'Please. thank you. sir, ma'am.' 1 think I'm polite. I love to r.ook dinner and I keep the toi­let scrubbed." 
Roberts' new movie, "Erin Brockovich," opens in theaters Friday. It's based on the true story of a single mother who comes across a case involving a high incidence of cancer in a small town while working as a clerk in a Southern California law office. 
"Erin is tPnar.ious and completely believes in the idra of justir.e, that good will always prevail," Hoberts said. 
Katie Couric's cancer test to be televised 
PHILADELPHIA "Today" show host Katie Courie took a camera crew along as she underwent a recent colonoscopy. a screening test for cancer. The procedure will be shown Monday and Tuesday on the NBC morning show as part of a weeklong series on r.olon cancer. Courie. 43. who was given a mild sedative for the test. discusses what is happening throughout. 
"We're showing it to demonstrate that there's no reason people should be scarcd," executivr. producer Jeff Zucker told Thr. Philadelphia Inquirer for Sunday's editions. "We try to do it with tremendous sensitivity. We don't show a lot ol' her colon. We're not going to gross anybody out." 
Couric's husband. NBC legal commentator Jay Monahan. died of colon cancer two years ago. 
Heston cancels anti-gun rally appearance 
DENVER Charlton Heston has canceled a planned appearance at the kir.k­off of a campaign for a crackdown on gun crime. 
The ar.tor and leader of the National Rifle Association had agreed to share the stage with James Brady of Handgun Control at Monday's public-awareness kickoff for Colorado Project Exile, a federal-state crackdown on gun-related crime. 
"We were trying to get his schedule cleared up and it looked like that goal had been accomplished a rouple of days ago, and other r,ommitments overtook us," National Rifle Association spokesman Bill Powers said late friday. 
. -· 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, March 6, 2000 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

No. 6 Irish struggle in quarterfinal victory over Hurricanes 

when it counted. needed attontion. 
By KERRY SMITH 
But the Irish rnadf1 morl" men­Sluggish passes around the 
Assisrnnr Spom Editor 
tal mistakes than they had perimeter and careless dribbling planned on. that cost the Irish the ball am STORRS, Conn. 
The Irish didn't play their mental mistakes the Irish can't They say the third time's a trademark basketball. There afford to make at this point in charm, but don't tell thal to the were no scoring runs. no big the season -everv timo Notre Miami Hurricanes. 
defensive stands and no huge Dame steps on the· court from Earning their third win against 
lead. here on out is a must-win situa­
Miami this season, the Irish 
The Irish playPd wPII enough tion. 
knockrd th!" Hurriranl"s out of to win, but not well enough to Green's turnover when she the 13ig East tournament Sunday show big teams like UConn and kicked the ball off her dribble at Gampcl Pavilion at the Rutgers that they arc in it for the with no dolimder pn~ssing her University of Connecticut with a 
long haul. that turn inlO a Miami field goal67-52 quarterfinals win. 
"I wanted to see us up big and forward Kelley Sir.mon's air­Hut the Hurricanes didn't go early and clear the bench bnt I ball foul shot in the second half out without a fight. With nothing knew that wasn't going to hap­typify the mental mistakes that to lose against the sixth-ranked pen," said Irish head coach could cost Notre Dame Hw Bigteam in the nation and the sec­l\1uffet McGra"'. "We needed to East championship or a berth in ond seed in the tournament, the get our timing back ... the NCAA Final Four latnr this Hurricanes pulled out all the With 14 turnovers in the first month. 
stops and rnarle the Irish earn half and 23 on the night, the The Irish, playing like a top-10their spot in the semifinals. 
Irish gave the ball up too many team against Hutgers in the reg­And any Irish player will tell times and let the Hurricanes ular season, came out on top you it wasn't easy. 
hang closer than tlrny should only with a dutch !Jasket from "We don't want anyone to out­
have. behind the arc by guard Alicia hustle us," said Hurricanes 
i\nd that was just what the Hatay to send the game into guard Shiela James. "Because Hurricanes wanted. Trailing Ly overtime. If' the Scarlet Knights we knew we were the underdog less than lO points for most of can take the game down to the we had nothing to lose tonight. 
the game, the Hurricanes wire when the Irish aron't on topWe left everything on the floor." 
believed they had a shot to pull of their game. then the Knights 

That was an aggressive men­JOB TURNER/The Observer
oiT a hugP upset and that men­rould easily advance past a 

talitv that the Irish weren't Center Ruth Riley takes it the hoop in a game against Miami
tality turned up their intensity. clumsy Notre Dame squad. 

ready for when they stepped on earlier this season.
And it showed -when Miami !Jut the Irish have a lot. of bas­
the court. 
stepped on the court after every ketball left to play and under dif­
The old standbys were there 

break, they looked like they ferent circumstances. They downs during the regular sea­the task at hand and plan on -center Ruth Riley scored 18 wanted it more. aren't coming into tonight's son. but they didn't earn a 25-3 stepping on the court tonight and looked like an All-American 
"They're aggressive and never game with eight days olT and in record with sloppy play. They with a dilTerent mindset. 
in the second half. point guard 

give up," said Ivey. "They always a foreign arena. They have one have at times played to the level And that's what counts. Niele Ivey scored 13 and made give a 110 percent effort when game under their belt and are of their lesser competition, but three steals while directing the they play us." comfortable with the setting. have always stepped up for big The views expressed in this 
squad on the floor and guards While the Irish stepped up And that's something the Irish games against ranked teams. column are those ofthe author 
Danielle Green and Ericka 

when it counted, it was the know. After the game, the Irish made it and not necessarily those ofThe Haney hit some big buckets smaller points of their game that The Irish had their ups and known that they are focused on Observer. 
"Danielle did a great job in outstanding game. She really Small forward Alicia Hatay with a 78-74 overtime victory. transition," McGraw said. "She played like an All-American shot just two for nine from the In that game, Hatay shot a per­
Wo01en 

came out ready in the second tonight." field for eight points, and none fect seven for seven from three­half." Miami narrowed the margin in the second half. point range. 
continued from page 24 

Erika Haney added two layins to six, at 53-47 with 7:43 "I don't question her shot "That was definitely the most turnovers in the half. for the Irish to begin the half. remaining, forcing McGraw to selection because I think she exciting game of the year," 
"I wanted lo see us get up big And when they weren't scoring call a full timeout. Following the knows what she can do," McGraw said of tho previous early and clear the bench," in transition, the Irish turned to timeout, the Irish scored on McGraw said of Hatay. "But I Rutgers game. "I thought you McGraw said. "But I knew that their center, Ruth Riley, to pro­their next three possessions, would like to see her shoot a lot saw pretty much everything wasn't going to happen. We vide some scoring. including a Niele Ivey three­more. I could see tonight she that could happen in a basket­needed to get our timing back." Riley Jed the Irish with 18 pointer from the top of the key. was trying to go to Ruth." bal I game, happen in that 
Notre Dame's fast break points and 14 rebounds, includ­Green and Ivey connected on Notre Dame needs Ratay to game." ­ing seven in the first eight min­free throws in the final two min­heed her-coach's advice tonight Though her team struggled a
offense led to easy points to 
start the second half. utes of the second half as the utes to provide the final margin. when the blue and gold face bit against Miami, McGraw Danielle Green scored six Irish tried to keep their double­The two Irish guards were the eighth-ranked Rutgers, which understands the bigger picture. points, on three driving layups, digit lead. other Irish players in double fig­advanced to the semifinals with "At this point in the season, I 
"I didn't think she shot partic­ures. Ivey scored 13 points, a 61-32 victory over Villanova just feel like we're 1-0 in a
in the first four minutes of the half lo expand the Irish lead to ularly well in the first half," while Green had 12 points to go Sunday. three-game tournament," 12 at 41-29. McGraw said of Riley. "But with eight rebounds and four The two teams met on Feb. McGraw said. "And that's all overall I thought she had an assists in :-31 minutes. 19, and the Irish came away that matters." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at ,he Nacre Dame office, 024 Souch Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must he prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
ATTENTION SOUND ENGINEERS ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE Jim Harris -­
Local Sound.Company has open­ANO CLOSE Inter-gender fencing champion of NOTICES WANTED ings for experienced FOH engi­FOR SALE the Midwest neers and stage hands. Call 277-http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ 
THE COPY SHOP ASPIRING WRITERS! 0032 www.thesoundcompany.com ema ii :mmmrentals@aot.com New Phone Card What an upset... 
LaFortune Student Center www.maincampus.com seeks stu­232-2595 886 mins. $20 
Store Hours dents for stories ranging from GRAPHIC LAYOUT 258-4805 or 243-9361 Where were JG and MF at the end? Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Mid Politics/Sex/Culture/Opinions International racing publication has NICE HOMES FOR NEXT Not team team players --AC 
Fri: 7:30am-7·00pm $25 per story! Email us at: opening for computer graphics lay­SCHOOL YEAR GOOD AREA 
Sat Noon-6:00pm eam@maincampus.com out person. Looking for fresh excit­NORTH MK: Sun: Noon-Mid ing designs to improve established 2773097 PERSONAL 0 Captain! my Captain! our fearful 
Free Pick-Up & Delivery! FLOOR HOCKEY OFFICIALS magazine. Flexible hours. 277-0033 trip is done; 
Olfic1als needed for Campus B&B for ND grad & Football www.thecommentator.com The ship has weather'd every rack. Call 631-COPY Floor Hockey. It's good money and Editor/proof reader needed to work 3 miles. 4 rooms. the prize we sought is won; 
good times! wit11 writers for national publication The port is near, the bells I hear, 
We're open late so your order will Experience helpful, but we do Flexible hours. Call 277-0033 287-4545 THE COPY SHOP the people all exulting. 
be done on lime! train everybody. Attend the LaFortune Student Center While follow eyes the steady keel. mandatory officials meeting on Job opportunity for reliable, self­HOUSEMATE WANTED. the vessel grim and daring. 
GRADUATION ROOMS Wed. 3/8 @ 7pm in Rolfs motivated student to work for ortho­Close to ND. Owner has pets. High-Speed Copying 
AVAILABLEt Sports Rec. Center or contact dontist. Run errands, make deliver­Kitchen privileges, large room and Color Copying SR: 
Brandon Leimbach @ ies, and light maintenance. Hours full basement. Resumes A faithful friend is a sturdy shelter. 
Need hotel rooms for graduation 631-3536 flexible. Call Mary, Shawn, or $300/mo. incl. all utilities. Business Cards weekend? Stacey at 234-2143 between 8-4. Fax Service Oh, what will I do without you two? ­
There are still rooms available in WEB DESIGNER NEEDED Call Mary at 287-1857. Desktop Publishing LP 
the Michiana area for graduation National Publication has opening & a whole lot more! 2000. tor designer to help improve and FOR RENT HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 5-bed· Prompt Pick-Up & Delivery EC, 
maintain existing sites. room, $1000/month. 2) 4-bedroorn, Call 631-COPY How's ii going? See ya soon kiddo! For more information, please con­277-0033 B"NB REGISTRY $900/month. 3) 3-bedroom, $700. BYE! BYE! 
tact Anthony Travel at 1x7080 or in Call Bill at 675-0776. We'll make Time does fly. I never thought I"d 
the LaFortune basement. www.nkn.com 219-291-7153 almost any changes to the houses. see the day. done 

-·----~--~ -----------------·---­
Monday, March 6, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

I 


. ' ' .
GAME 


WOMEN'iS GAME 
TUESDAY, Nt:ARCH 7TH 
7:30 P.M. 

MEN'S GAME 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 8TH TIME TBA 
LAFORTUNE rv LOUNGE 
FREE FOOD AND PRIZES!! 
'. ,. . ' ' 
IC>o rV1 E'· CH·E ER 
• 1 .,'' 
,1 • ' ,, ' • 
I 



l '\/ i, T ; E5 


I . I I 
I I 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, March G, 2000 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Distance Inedley relay sets record, seeks national title 
jumpers. That's over 1500 as well. Mishka won tho 800m competitors," he said. "II' you race with a time of 1 :48.44 get a qualifying mark. you're and Grow won the 400 at in the top 20 in the nation. 54.16s. Cochran took the That's protty good." 200m dash with a time of 
Aside from the Il1flll's dis­21.37s. tance modley that won their Hegardless of who advancPs event. the Irish took tlw num­to nationals. the team will now ber one spot iu many other shift its focus to the outdoor ev1rnts at Saturday's contPsL season, and the compntition ~Iatt Thompson won the 35 lb. that lies ahead. throw with a distance or 54-"Wo just havo to get focust=1d foot-1 and Quill lhidwine took on th<' outdoor soason," the triple jump wHh a distance Winsor said. "Thuse people of 4o-foot-8. that don't get in. just have to 
King, West and Englehardt regroup and mako tlrn out­all won their n~spective events doors a priority." 
NW SUBURBAN CHICAGO 
SUMMER POSITIONS
INTERNSHIP AND 
FIELD INTERNSHIPS
POSITIONS 
',• U ', I •

DAY &NIGHT CREWS Plus Incentives 
Environmental mosquito management and aquatic weed control contractor is now hiring over I IO seasonal personnel for a variety of positions, including paid internships. Flexible day and night crew opportunities availahle for all majors. Excellent driving record required. Company paid training. 
For more information, stop in and see us .. 
Interview Opportunities 
March 7, 2000 

9:00 am -5:00 pm, Career Center By MOLLY McVOY 
Assistant Spom Editor 
Tho '.'Jotro Dame basketball team will nut be the only team nervously awaiting the NC.M's decision as to who advances to the championships. Many members of the Irish track and field squad a w a i t 1v1onday's announcc­menl by 
the NCAA 
about who w i 1 1 advance to next weekend's indoor cham­pionships. 
Going into the Alex Wilson Invitational, several of Notre Oarne's top athletes wen' hop­ing to get the extra inch on their jumps or the fow seconds off their times to make it to Urn national championships at the University of Arkansas next weekend.· 
AftHr Saturday's meet, the only sure spot is held by the men's distance medley. The team broke the meet record of 9 minutes. 43.18 seconds with a time of 9:39.40. and missed tying the school record by one second. 
The team of Phil Mishka, Chris Cochran, Tim Kober and Luke Watson is now ranked second in the nation and is looking to win the event at nationals. 
"Running with competition, which we really haven't done yet, will definitely help," Cochran said. "Looking at the competition, we have to lnok to win. I think we're in strik­ing distance cit' Stanford. Anyone can step up in a national meet. I think we can step,,up as much as anyone else. 

Going into Saturday's meet, the team wanted to take a couple of seconds off its time to secure its spot in nationals. 
"I think the main differencfl with Friday's porformance was that we all knew we had to run a little better than last time to ensure getting in the national meet," Cochran said. "And we all had experience in the events. 
Last time it was Watson's first timo in his leg [of tlrn race] and I'm sure the 1200 was new for Mishka." 
Marshaun 'Nest was one of the long jumpers hoping to qualify on Saturday. lie need• ed a jump or ai least 25-foot-6 to ensure the championships, but only jumped 24-foot-5 on Saturday. 
"It had to do with the level of competition and also my health wasn't 100 percent," West said. "I'm just going to concentrate on outdoors_.. I'm going to try and stay healthy and work on my technique and not get hurt." 
He has a provisional qualify­ing mark in the long jump, but will have to be in the top 15 in the nation to go. It will be announced Monday evening who will advance. 
Along with West, high jumpPr Jen Engelhardt and long jumper Tameisha King wern hoping to get the dis­tancn needed to get into nationals. 
Although Engnlhardt's jump of 5-foot-9 and 3/4 was a pro­visional qualifying mark for the championships, it may not give her the necessary edge. 
"I don't think Tameisha and Jenny will get in," fields coach Scott Winsor said. 
Winsor believed that the competition is tougher this year than in previous years and that may affect who quali­fies. 
"IThe field] is prelty compet­itive," Winsor said. "It's an unusual year, I would say. Usually it takes 180 !inches in high jump] to gpt in, bnt this year it took 182." 
!lead coach Joe Piane refus­es to throw in the towol, how­ever. /\long with the jumperfi, Byan Shay qualified for the 5000. Phil '.\iishka and Tim Cover have marks in the 800, and Liz Grow may go in 1he 
400. Patty Hice also has a qualifying time in the mile, and Alison Klemmer in the 3000. 
"I hope they all go," he said. 
Monday's announcement will tell if they'll be· packing their bags for Kansas next weekend. 
Piane belirwes the athletes have proven their abilities regardless of the outcome for nationals. 
"There are 308 Division I schools, each with around five 


For only $2 you can enjoy this hilarious interactive 
murder mystery.
e 
www.nd.edu/-sub 

Monday, March 6, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Hoops 
continued from page 24 
assists in 21 minutes. "That was the ganrn right there." 
"lie hit somr open jumpers," Doherty said of Carroll. "He's a shooter and wlwn hr's oprn I want him to shoot it. He's dangerous. If you leave him open, I feel <'very lime he shoots. it's going in." 
Carroll. who made 4-of-5 thrP1' pointnrs. wasn't tlrn only who saw his shots go down. Thn rnsl of the Irish also got in on tlrn action. 
"The shots went down," said Uohrrty. 
w h o 
"We got thoroughly out­

watrhed his Jere Macura 
team jump played in every phase of came off the out to a 27 -the game -defense. bench to score 
point lead seven points
rebuun ding, shooting. " 

with 2 min­apiece. u Les. 10 The Iloyas 
seconds left Craig Esherick shooting woes were apparent
to play in Georgetown head coach 
tlrn first half. "We took a lot of good shots and we made them." 
Thn lloyas were unable to get any closer than 17 points in the second half and Notre Dame cruised to its largest margin of victory in a confer­cmcr game since the 1996-97 season. 
"We gol thoroughly out­playrd in every phase of the game -defense, rebounding, shooting," Georgetown head coach Craig Esherick said. "Our offense stunk up the place and Notre Dame had a lot to do with that. We got our butts kicked today." 
The Irish did an excellent job crashing the boards, as they outrebounded the Hoyas, 
51-2()_ 
"W<> wern trying to work on that in practice and we made sure we did a good job of doing that," sophomore power forward Troy Murphy said. "Coach really stressed that a lot in the pre-game talk. He said that was going to be a big part of the game and we did that well." 
All seven Notre Dame play­ers who scored shot over 50 percent from the field. Murphy, the conforence's leading scorer and rebounder, led the way with 23 points and 1!'i rebounds. 
Sophomore David Graves also had one of his biggest gamrs of the season. pouring in 14 points and grabbing 13 boards. 
Senior point guard Jimmy Dillon dished out nine assists, 
while Martin 
Tngelshy and 
early on. Kevin 
Rraswell and Lee Scruggs. two of Georgetown's leading scorers, werr both 2-for-11 from the field and combined for just 11 points. The Boyas shot just 30 percent for the game and only knocked down 5-of-26 shots (19 percent) from behind the arc. They also struggled from the foul line, making just 9 of their 17 attempts. 
Demetrius Hunter had a team-high 14 points, while Ruben Boumtje Boumtje grabbed 11 rebounds. 
With the win, the Irish close out the regular season with a 17-13 record and an 8-8 mark in the conference. Notre Dame locked up the No. 7 seed in the Big East Tournament ­its highest seed ever -and will play No. 10 seed Rugers on Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. at Madison Square Garden. 
FENCING 

Men defend title at Mid"7ests 
. Women fall to Northwestern, take second 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
Jan Viviani was in trouble in the deriding hout of the 2000 Midwest Conference team epee championship. 
With the score tied 2-2 in his bout with 0 h i o State's G e o f f Kane, the freshman cpeeist began to lose his balance and fall off the edge of the strip. He quickly recov­ered and stabbed the Buckeye to score a touch and take a 3-2 lead. Viviani went on to score the next three touches and win the champi­onship for the Irish. 
"I think it was when I almost fell off the strip and still got a touch -that was the deciding factor in the bout," Viviani said with a smile. 
The men's fencing team was all smiles Saturday as the Irish won each weapon en route to the overall title. 
In the finals, the foil squad cruised to a 5-1 victory over Cleveland State while the sabre squad blanked Wayne State for the title. Only the men's epee team had a chal­lenge in the finals. 
The Buckeyes surprised the Irish as they opened up a 2-0 lead with wins over Viviani and Brian Casas. 


"The first two bouts that we Jost kind of surprised me," Gaither said. "Our guys are definitely good enough to come back." 
The Irish quickly recovered to win the next four bouts to take a 4-2 lead. The Buckeyes, however, would no go down easily -winning two bouts over Casas and Gaither. 
With the title on the line, Viviani, who finished second in epee wins for the Irish this season, wrapped up the bout despite his near slip. 
In foil, the Irish rolled to victory -winning 15 bouts while only dropping two. Ozren Debic, Forest Walton and Steve Mautone led the Irish in the finals. 
Mautone clinched the title with a 5-4 win over Tamir Strowder. 
On the sabre side, the Irish cruised through the quarter­finals and semifinals relying mostly on reserve fencers. In the finals, however, the Notre Dame starters returned and dealt Wayne State a 5-0 loss. 
Irish No. 4 sabreman Matt Fabricant fenced the decid­ing bout for the Irish against Mark Mathias. Mathias, who finished in the top 8 in Sunday's individual champi­onships, jumped out to a 3-0 lead on the freshman. 
Fabricant never panicked, however, and won the next five touches to clinch the championship for Notre Dame. 
"I think it is a testimony to the fact that he is a really good fencer," sabre captain Clay Morton said about Fabricant's victory. "He got a few bad calls against him so he just refocused. He forgot about the bad touches and 1999 Midwest Championship as Northwestern won the epee and sabre titles along with a second place finish in foil to win the championship. 
Alt.hough Irish managed to top the Wildcats in foil, the sabre team lost in the finals while the epec team lost to Cleveland State in the semifi­nals. 
Notre Dame jumped out to a 4-3 lead but could not win the deciding bout as both Kim DeMaio and Anna Carnick lost consecutive 5-4 bouts. 
"We had some equipment problems early but it was no excuse," DeMaio said. "There was zero leadership on my part as a captain and it came down to the last bout which it never should have come down to. All excuses aside, we just didn't fence the way we should have." 
Although DeMaio went 0-3 and Carnick went 1-2 against Cleveland State, freshman Meagan Call led the Irish with a 3-0 record. 
"Megan Call was great," DeMaio said. "It's just too bad that Anna and I couldn't come up with the other two wins." 
In foil, the Irish fell behind 2-0 to the Wildcats before Magda Krol defeated Maggie Kebrdle 5-0 to kick off a run where the Irish won 5 of 6 bouts to take the match. 
Northwestern, however, got the best of Notre Dame in the other head-to-head match as the Wildcats won the women's sabre title 5-2. 
Freshman Natalia Mazur won both bouts as the other starters, Carianne McCullough and Katie Flanagan, struggled against the No. 1 sabre squad in the country. 

did what he needed to do to "It was just too many fun­win. That's what makes him damental errors," sabre cap­a good fencer." tain McCullough said. "We 
On the women's side, the kept falling short and our Irfsh failed to defend their defense was weak." 
Killer APP 
)/\\\.:-ii:.:-<:f?\t:·. -·::::·-::::::··--_::::/:<­

··•· ==:~~ ~;,::!llllllt~iF helped me 
.tngivea 110°/4.effort. }ii"Jil~1 ~~0Zot 

..•1s•.•..• integral•. to•·· lheiNOtye i13im~ .•.. find mv fraditiofi...·••GiVin,g•••·a··•JiQo/o ~ffoittmi••·• 
... ;~~t~~~;i,~1;~~1=11, moio 
·e.redtt.••unto11 tradthon}?:to••b&tli•••·or··• 
•····tlj,~~¢ th6ugfi:t~\We··••·•wo~ld·••· sltfiPly·••·..
ltk&to a.a&.. ·.·.·. ···. ·.· ····..·. ·.· 

Student programmers and software deve1opers...Oo vou have what ii takes to develop the KILLER APP?
Go team,! 


Develop agame or utilitv and submit nto Aureate Media bv April 1, 2000. nIt s the best vou could win $2000. nnot, vou could sUII make alot of money. Any questions? E-mail: klllerapp@aureate.com.
0 ~21~C~E~t~~ 

For People. Not For Profit Aureate Media 
NO l'URCHASF. NECESSARY. Tob,e,d1g1bley,.., mUII be• U,S. cohttt1 18 yuoiorol<kr, Emplo,-andd1Nl(;t0nofA1,1.-«lc Med11 Corp<.UL1on and ii.II •ffihll.ed eomp11111:1t, and their immodiatc lam.lhcs or mmiben ofthe ume bouNbold.....,, 1IOl 1!1!11­bk. To enter, send a i;opy oflllc software program. lions with your iwr.c, address, qe, phone 111.1mboe:r •nd e-nwl adJn:,,w 10 
www.aureate.com Aurca.1~ M<!d,a CorponliuD, Allenuon: Ktlkr Apphca11011 Cool~ Admu11.U.1or, 19168 Old Mtddkfkld Way, M01Jm&111 VtC"I<, CA 94043. &t.:r as im.ny 10.ftwa program• u you hke, bul each col[)' mu.Ill be~ ~.dy. Eatn• must be ri:,c,eiv-ed bf
219-239-661 l 


11;19:'9 p,m. E.T., April I, 2000. Ouc(l)grllkl prize ofS2,000 .,_,II be ,wud,:,:I. Nowmtm.itica. oflbcl gralld pna: will be al!oWM Winner. and ,11ber C!lllnn llriec1od for 111eh,s,011 "' the AUreak Delw,lfi, WIil b: dderrnmod 111 lbc ><lie dua~oa oflhe jud~ based upon the d&.11, IIIIH arpeal, nwl,;dabllrty, ullmtlivi1y 1tld viJ!.W tif«l• oftbe ealnH. W11111er WIii be 1011fied by ma.ii ore-mail W1DDCt, alld othcrelllnel telor:l«I for 1..:h1110111ff lbe Aural¢' actwod::, wall bCI &nOOllnc&ld t>, MAy I, 2000
www.ndfcu.org 

Odds ol'. wianin~ will vuy wrtb r,.1U1:1pahon, Tu.es Ire \h<, ookl ~bi.lny of'lh-< w,_., The winnct, &at Ibo, oWDCU of Cl!lria .elected for 111dUN011111 lhc AW"C&IC IIClworl,;, will b.t roqwred lo e~I.be rouo....tng: Laabtht}' and Pub!iaty Juteuc:, l\ffidavil ofElil,ibthty P<1 Soll-J)ff«opcr R4111ri,11oa ~. Coll~ cODd~ed b)' A~ M,:dl#I Coq,oqll09, 1916801d M1dd\iaf111:ld W1y, Muuntaia Vicw,CA9404l. Foracompl,:t,:,c:t ofOff11,.,aJ Rule,;,.-• blil of1.b,r.....,ncra,ad1bo,,c 
e-mail: ndfcu@ndfcu.org 

eoln• selected fOJ i1111.lu,t0n 111 the l,urealc Ddwotk. pl~ teflll I srif-~ IUqit:!d eavdope IO ,'uiteac Mo:dUI 
Corponlioa. cloKillcr Appllcal1011(·.,..,e11 Adnuai•iMot, Mlr>:atc Medu CQrpo:wcc ll9Wn<!II IO<ap0a..,,,l11y flll' 1.-, n'IIII 
lalod, bte or m,..Ju~1ed t11tnm, o, for any ~omputcr. ~«fwod:. clcclmmc, cr inlomid U.rdw1nc or 110f1w~ malli.m<· 
liorw orf.ultua. VOID WHERE PROHIBITED. 
INDEPENDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY 


Monday, March (1, 2000 
Penn upsets top-seeded Nowak in title fight 
By BILL HART Senior Sporrs Writer 
Fans gut Llleir money's worth in ono of the mos1 antiripatr.d fights at the Joyce Center on Friday evening, when Sean "The Frir Kiel" Nowak facPd off against Don "The Destroyer" Penn for the 165 lb. division title. In likely the most balanced bout of the night., Penn came l'rom bAhind to take a split deci­sion and shock the top seed. 
Both lighters came out aggrns­siwly in the early rounds, each dPpending on the same styles that had gotten them through the semifinals on Tuesday. Penn relied on the left jab and hard right. whilP Nowak used high­low combinations and boxed his opponrnt within the ropes. 
"I had to be aggressive, bccam,P l knew ho was a strong boxPr," Penn said about his strategy. "I needed to be [aggrnssive] continually through­out the course of the fight." 
After trading blows through the first two rounds, Penn con­nectPd with a strong right hook that sent Nowak staggering. But the top seed recovered, respond­ing with a hook of his own that sent Penn to the mat midwav through the round. · 
"I was surprised," Penn said about the blow. "He took a lot of punclrns, and yet he was able to come bark like that. I-lo threw a lot of punclrns, and hP didn't scfnn fazed by the punches I was throwing." 
By the time Penn brushed himself off with a standing eight count, both fighters wern so tired that neither could land another solid blow. The crowd came to its l'er,t for the fight's conclusion. drowning out the final bPIL 
170 lb. division 
Siegfried sophomore Hob "The Golden Schlager" Joyce scored an impressive upset. defeating top seed Brian "Hoppe" Hobbins in a unanimous decision. 
Joyce looked confident from the opening bell, putting Hobbins on the defensive early. 
40-year commitment to tlrn Bengal Bouts. earning his third straight title through a unani­mous decision over Josh "Tho Sandman" Thompson. 
Biolchini came out n,ady to fight. using a strong 1·ight hook to keep Thompson on the dr.fen­sive. By controlling the center of the ring. Biolchini was able to dictate the tone of' the light and movP away l'rurn Thompso11's hlows. 
Thompson looked better in tho second round, but he wasn't. able to land cmougb blows to come away with the victory. v\'hilLi Thompson hr.Id a slight advantage in read. Biolchini used his agility and patience to \.Vear down his opponent until the final hell. 
180 lb. division 
Keough sophomore Marc Criniti ar.complishrd a frat fr.w boxers can claim when he bPat out both the first and second seeds to earn a division title. 
After defeating Tom DeSplintr,r in the snmifinals on Tuesday. he completed his improhablH road to a champi­onship with a split decision win over Joey "Socia Pop" Leniski in the championship bout. 
With two left-handed lightPrs, this bout proved to be different for Criniti than his previous fights. 
"For the whole time this year, he and I wen) sparring against right-handers, proparing for fights against them." he said. "We really didn't have any expe­riPncc against loft-handed oppo­nents: Ii was pretty awkward." 
The contender came out early with hift-right combos in thci center of the ring, and came back from an early deficit in the first round. Lcniski seemed unable to connect with the jabs he used so frequently in the ear­lier bouts. and Criniti used that to prnss his advantage even more. Aftc~r a vicious flurry in the second round, Leniski lost his balance and stumbled to the canvas. 
While Criniti's strategy kept 


Tom "The Tulsa Bomber" Biolchini lands a punch in his 175-lb. title fight against Josh "The Sandman" Tliompson. Biolchini won his third straight title by unanimous decision. 
Lcniski on the defensive early, he needed a strong dofonsive stand to hold ofT the top seed. 
"I was starting to get a little more tired in the third round," Criniti remarked on l!rn come­back. "Joey was really starting to come af"ter me at that point, too. I just had to keep moving and using my jab, just lrying to score points." 
190 lb. division 

After defending his top seed from freshman Chris Pearsall in the semifinals, senior Mike "Honey" Hammes proved he had what it takes to do it again and earned a split decision over sophomore Kevin "Hardcore" Brandl. 
Brandi's slight advantage in reach ha'tl an effect on llammes' performance early on, requiring the top seed to change his plan of attack. Hammes hegan to turn the tide in the second round, going on the defensive to dellect most blows and timing a nurry 
In the latter half of the first.--------------------------. 
round. Joyce landed several combos that left Hobbins stag­gering. 
"I knew he had a better reach," Joyce said. 'That made it pretty hard for me to get inside on him. He tried to pre­vent me from staying inside for most of the tight" 
Hobbins seemed to be unable to recover from those early blows. With .Joyce's endless assault. the Keenan junior was unable to both defend himself and time his punches effectively. A big right hook in the second round by Joyce gave him a com­manding lead, but he had to also stop one of Hobbins' patented third-round comebacks to pre­serve the victory. 
"I knew I had a slight lead in the third," Joyce said. "But I also knew I had to keep things up. He was a pretty tough fighter, and hr, really rame at me in the third. I didn't face that in my other two fights." 
175 lb. division 
With his· family in attendance, Tom "The Tulsa ilomber" Biolchini continued his family's 
ATTENTION COLLEGE REPUBLICANS: MEETING TONIGHT 
9PM in the Dooley Room ofLaFun 
We will discuss internship opportunities, several upcoming activities, and officer elections for next year. 
Pizza and soft drinks will be provided. 

of jabs and combinations that stunned his opponent. 
In the third round, Hammes landed two powerful left hooks bnfore backing away from a potentially disastrous barrage from the challenger. While Brandl was able to anticipate multiple combinations from tlw top seed, IIammes' offensive ver­satility def'oated Brandl in the end. 
Heavyweight division 
Using a combination of agility and caution, Keonan junior Peter "Beat the Hap" Hyan ended the night with a textbook display of boxing tact, beating graduate student Dan "Lpt Me" Adam by unanimous decision. 
Adam came out strong, look­ing for a heavy hit to knock the top seed out. I!is aggressiveness paid off early on, with a set of punches putting Byan on the ropes. 
But after the initial fireworks ended, the junior captain settled into this game plan: aller wait­ing for Adam to mako his move, Hyan would wait for tlw threat to pass and pummel his oppo­nent before he had a chancn to put his guard back up. 
"I played a littlP conservative because he's such a big, strong boxer," Hyan said. "I wantnd to stay away from his punches and just play off his mistakes." 
In that style, tlw champ got many shots in early on, prompt­ing the ref to stop the light early in the second round when Adam's face was dripping blood. Hyan eventually wore Adam out, prompting some wild round­abouts from_ the challenger throughout most of the third round. 
"I don't think it was frustration more than it was exhaustion." Ryan said about Adam's move­ments. "Wn were both prntty tired by the third round. The guys in my corner were l<\lling me to stay away, and he still had a powerful blow at that point." 
. \ =:i====================:::;i 
fllfARK YOUR CALENDAR! 
...._\ 
~~ Arts & Letters ft.. Job/Internship Fair 
Friday, March 24th 10:00 -4:00 p.m. Ballroom .. LaFortune 
*Prepare * 
Extended On-Call Hours (walk-in) 
Mon-Fri On-call 1:30-4:00 p.m. Tues-Fri On-call 10:00 a.m.-Noon 
Go IRISH Workshops ·~ 
Tues March 7 10:00-11:00 a.m. Flanner G20 Wed March 8 11:00-12:00 p.m. Flanner 020 Thurs March 9 4:00-5:00 p.m. Flanner G20 
Resume Writing Workshops 
Mon  March 6  4:00-5:00 p.m. Flanner 020  
rues  March 7  4:00-5:00 p.m. Flanner G20  
Wed  March 8  4:00-5:00 p.m. Flanner G20  

Monday, March 6, 2000 
The Observer . SPORTS 

Hockey 
continued from page 24 
Molina and Nathan Borega. 
Tlw Irish lrnld the lnad going into the lo!'.kcr room. but it didn 'l takP long for thP Spartans to answer. l\t the 0:45 mark 01 tlw se(·ond p(•riod. sophomore right wing /\dam Hall senl in a shot l'rom between the circles off a r1•bnund frum sophomore ,\nclrt!W Ilutchinson. 
Aft.Pr lying the game. numer­ous Irish pPnalties kPpt thP home Warn on the defensive. Midway through tlrn sncond pNilld, tlw Spartans lwlcl a S­on-3 advan1ag1•s for just undnr :rn s(,ronds WhilP tlw Irish WIT!' abh· to kill thrcl• 1wnatti(~s t>arlv in llw st,cond p1•riod. an int(:rf"prnnrP 1wnalty al thP 
I :i:45 mark proved to be just tlw <'dgc lhn Spartans nn1>cird Orw minutl' later, Zasowski was miabln to counter a 2-on-t aclvantag(i. as lfall scorC'd his scrnnd goal of the night off a pass from frnshrnan left wing Brian Malmwy 
"ll S('cnir.~l like it was an unrvnn game with all tho pcnal­ti<>s." sl'nior captain Brn Simon saici. "It's kind of' ironic how we're the least penalized team in the league, and we always seem to have more penalties thaIJ the other team." 
The Irish missed a huge opportnnity late in tho second, when goalie Hyan Miller fell down to leave an empty net. But a stabbing glove save prcwented the home team from taking acivantagc. 
Early in tho third, the Irish found themselves in danger of hPing scored on again. flail attempted to get the hat trick, but Zasowski covered up the puck for one of his 32 saves on the night. 
At tlrn S:5:{ mark in the third. Urn PA annnuncfir informed the crowd that F(irris State was los­ing to WMC 4-2 late in thP game. The maction by the team was almost instantaneous. 
"Tlrnv f11lt it on our hcnch." Pouliu ·rcr,allcd. "Aft.er hearing the S!'.orn, they really pick11d it up. Dan C:arlson was the first to jump up and he said, "It's in our hands, let's go get it.' There was a definite surge.'' 
After fending off another penalty. the Irish earned their second power play opportunity of the night at the 13:42 mark. off a hooking penalty from Spartan center Shawn Harcnff. Simon won a right­
page 19 
ending the scoring for the night. 
Despite the loss, Notre Dame will face Perris State in the first round of the playoffs, in a best­of-three series at the Joyce Cent:er starting on Friday. The Bulldogs swept the Irish earlier in the year, winning two games in mid-October at Big Rapids, Michigan. But with the two teams playing on the Irish home ice, the outcome could be decid­edly different. 
"Ultimately, we didn't really need Ferris if we took care of our own end," Simon remarked. "But we capitalized on the chances we did get, and we're going to roll from there." 


things were going. They were going our way, and we'll take it." 
Both sides fonded off last­minute shots to force overtime, which saw numerous chances for the Irish fall short. 
''We have never been happier with a tie," Poulin said about the game. "And the way it hap­pened, coming back to get it. Every time we have tied this year, it was really a tie. Tonight, we came back and got this one." 
The Irish started off strong in Saturday's game at the Munn Ice Arena, as Simon scored on a forehand shot inside the far left post at the 8:20 mark of the first. But the Spartans rallied back with five unanswered goals, ending with a power-play shot by Hall at the 15:27 mark of the second. 

Notre Dame began to mount a comeback off power-plays early in the third period, beginning with junior Jay Knpischke's fifth goal of the season, a tap-in score off a pass from Dusbabek at the 2:01 mark. 
Minutes later, Dusbabek threatened to score off a pass from Carlson. A shot from the high slot was deflected near the right goalpost, but Simon was there to bank the rebound off Spartan goalie Joe Blackburn, 
LEADERS 
IFull-time college student or graduate. Starting salary, $32,000. Post ·offer mental and physical screening. 
Marine Officer Programs Call toll free for aq interview 1-877-299-9397 www.MarineOfficer.com 
side faceoff in the Spartan zone and passed the puck to senior Tyson Fraser. After a shot by senior Joe Dusbabek was blocked by Miller, Simon rebounded the puck at the inside edge of the right circle and hit a low shot past Miller's right leg at the 14:23 mark. 
"The shot just hit olT one or their guys and bounced our way." Simon said about the play. "That's just the way 

KARAQI(~ (QN~ST 
So.'\\lr~~Y, M~rch-1/Y' 
9-11 p_.-,.._ 

Lat'lr\U.NE: Baltr22.-,.. f22~ ~Na priZE:S!! (2tt-E: 6E: ~ RQO< STAR!! 

* 




Sp21'1S2rE:a 6y -\IH: S\\l~N\ AC\iVA:i~ QffiCE: 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, March 6, 2000 
FENCING 

Carnick pulls off stunning comeback in final seconds 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports W ricer 
Northwestern head fencing coach Laurie SchiIJer could tastP virtorv. 
There was no way his fencer, Kellie MacDonald, could lose. She had an 8-5 lead over Notre Darrw freshman Anna Carnick with just 12 sPconds remaining in the bout. With his entire team gathered around him cheering, Schiller counterl down the seconds until he could cclc­bra le MacDonald ·s Midwest Conference epPe championship. 
Too bad nobody told Camick that the match was already over. 
The freshman from Mishawaka won an unbeliev­able three touches in the next 12 seconds to send the bout into overtime. 
Schiller could 
only watcb in 'That is mental Crompton trailP-d stunnPd silf'nce 10-6 before bat­
toughness. That ·s 
as Carnick . tling back to tifl 
scored a touch very unusual to 
thP bonl at lO. in sudden come back and score Krochmalski, death overtime however, won four
three touches." 
to keep the of the next fivfl individual epee touches to take the crown in Irish Yves Auriol bout. 
hands. Notre Dame fencing coach "He had a pretty
"That is men­tal toughness." Notre Dame head coach Yves Aurinl said about Carnick's win. "That's very unusual to come back and score three touches. That shows something." 
Carnick showed that, despite being just a freshman, she. has the poise and toughness of a seasoned veteran. After taking a 5-3 lead into the final period, she lost five straight touches to fall behind 8-5. Instead of pan­icking or giving up. she just took a deep breath, reevaluated her style and started her come back. 
"I knew how I had beaten her before and I kind of lost focus for a while," she said. "So I just needed to concentrated on the action. I knew that she was stronger but I was quicker so I had the advantage with a little bit of time left." 
Camick's first Midwest cham­pionship was the second cham­pionship of the day for the Irish. Just minutes before Carnick won her title, Ozren Debic defeated tPammate Forrest Walton to win the individual foil title. 
Debic lr.d Walton 10-7 before Walton battled back to close the gap to 1. 11-10. That was as closo as Walton would got how­ever, as Debic wou the next four touchfls to win the bout. 1 5-11. 
While tho Irish only won two individual championships, they placed f'encers in the top five in evny weapon. 
Sophomores Andre Crompton, Gabor Szelle and freshman l\1att Fabricant al! advanced to the semifinals in men's Rpee. Crompton defeated Szelle in the semifinal, 15-5 while Fabricant fell to Wayne State sophomore Jakub Krochmalski in lhe other semifinal. 
In the final. Krochmalski usml a quick attack to overcom_e Crompton's defensive style and 
win th<' cham pi­
onship, 15-11. 
good attack so I 
tried to use my defense a little bit better," Crompton said, "I had fenced him a few times before and I noticed that his attack was pret­ty strong so l tried to work on mv defense." 
\,Vith Crompton's experience against Krochwalski, ho believes that he will defeat Krochwalski next weekend at the NCAA Regional Qualifier. 
"I have beat him before so I think in Regionals I will defi­nitely take him," he said. 
In addition to defeating Szelle, the 1999 Midwest Champion, in the semis, Crompton faced a tough battle in the quarterfinals against junior Irish All­American Andrejz Bednarski. 
"I don't really like fencing teammates," Crompton said. "But I use that as an advantage. I know how they fence but they also know how l fence." 
Freshman Jan Viviani also a tough battle against teammate Brian Casas in the epee semifi­nal. Casas, a sophomore All-
A Salute to the Leaders of Tomorrow ­

Smart move. The whole concept of Air Force ROTC revolves around the cultivation of qualities 
A. Force ROTC Cadets 
College is a time for decision Choose to become a leader 
that count for leadership. 
Whether you're about to 
start college or have 
already begun, it's time 
to make your decision, 
now. 
Making Leaders for the Air Force and Better Citizens for America 
Contact Captain Klubeck at 631-4676, or K1ubeck.1@nd.edu 

American from Mishawaka. and Viviani battled back and forth for eight minutes before Viviani took a 9-8 lead with just sec­onds left. 
With time as his onemy, Casas slr~pped up his attack but Viviani countered to score a rlouble touch. 
Viviani scored a touch on Casas· last desperation attack to win thll bout 11-9. 
In the final, Viviani faced ;\Ian Jones of Ohio State. Despite falling behind 10-7 going into the third pPriod, Viviani rallied to tied the match at 13. 
"Coach gave me some advice and I took that advice," Viviani said about his change1 in strate­gy after the first two rounds. 
Viviani, however, did not stick to his new strategy in the dos­ing minutes and lost the bout 15-13. 
"I changl'd up and started act­ing like an idiot." Viviani said. "I just relaxer! and I thought I was going to win." 
As victory slippml away from Viviani in tho !\pee finals. senior Magda Krol and rreshman Liza lfoutsikaris each dropped their bouts in the women's foil semi­finals. 
Boutsikaris fell to eventual champion Faen Groes while Krol droppml a heart-breaker to Northwestern's Kristen Dorf. 15-11. 
Krol fell behind narly, 13-5 br.l'ore she ralli11d back to close the gap to three, 14-11. Dorf, hownver. rngrouped after Krol's come back to win the bout, 15­11. 
Women's sabro was the only weapon where the Irish did not place a foncm in the top four. Freshman Natalia Mazur fin­ished fifth for Notre Dame as Northwestern claimed all four semifinalisl'i. 


Believe 
The Office of the Student Body President Is 
Now Accepting Applications For the 
2000-2001 Academic Year. 
IfYou Are Interested In Joining Student Government, Meeting New People, and Serving the Notre Dame Community...Please Pick up an Application From the Student Government Office Located On the Second Floor ofLaFortune. 
*Applications Are Due Wednesday, March 8th. 
--· 

Monday, March 6, 2000 "Strong bodies fight, that weak bodies may be nourished." 
page 21 

Ali in attendance at hard-hitting title bouts 
sustain [the lead]."

By BRIAN BURKE Newberg plans to move up a 
Sports Wrirer 
weight class for next year. 

As ii' tlrn finalists in the 70th 
130 Pounds

Annual B1mgal Bouts n1wded 
AL 130 pounds Matt "The

any added motivation, they Don" Fumagalli knocked off
rncciV<)d an extra jolt of 
another high seed to secure

aclrcnalirw Friday night upon 
the title. Having already

learning they would be going 
defeated the No. 1-rankcd

for a title in the presence of 
fighter, Fumagalli took a splittlrn grPatcst fighter of all time. 

decision over second-seeded

With Muhammed Ali in aw~n­Camilo "Rollin"' Rueda.
dancc. the boxers lived up to Overall it was a sloppy con­
llrnir end of the bargain, pro­test with plenty of holding and
viding several hard hitting 
Mrant elbows. but Fumagalli

cont!ists in search of a cham­was most successful whAn hepionship. 
backed Rueda into the ropes and traded punches. Ilueda 

120 Pounds 
tried to stick and move, which 

ln a minor upset. Shawn worknd at times, but both 
"Knockout The Old And Bring 
fightr.rs tired by the third 

ln Tlw" Nnvbcrg took tlw first 
round, and Fumagalli was 

lillP or tlrn night. earning t!rn 
able to grind out the win. 

split dnrision over top seeded "I had to keep him in. I just
.lam<'s "Pirahna" Fishburne. 
knew when he came in, I had Although both fighters started 

to get my hits." Fumagalli

tPntativ!\ly. Nnwberg settled in said. 
-and Pmployrd tlrn same cffr.c­
Tho championship was espe­

livP strategy Im used in tlw 
cially satisfying for Fumagallisemifinals. 

considering the competition he 

As in his previous fight, 
faced on the way.

NPwberg allowed his opponent "Jason IMcMahonl was the 
to chas<' him around the ring man to bracket,
beat in mv 

and swing at his hands, then an<l Camilo in tI{e other,"countered with cornbinations Fumagalli said. "It was a real wlwn FishburnP wore down. 
accomplishment to fight such frus­

Tlw tactic appcarnct to goo<l boxers as those guys."
trat<' Fishburne as he was unahlP to land open shots 
140 Pounds

whilP scrambling after pound card. While they stood 
As expected, both top

Ncwlwrg. toe-to-toe for much of the 
ranked Kurt Wilson and Mike

"That's the strategy I use a opening round, Waldo was 
"The Motor City Madman"

lot: block and go, block and able to land a good straight
Waldo came out swinging

go," Newberg said. "I think I right that gave him an early 
away in the [inals of the 140­

was able to g<'l up early and lead. Wilson came back as the 


pace slowed in the second, staying low and landing jabs to the body. 
What made the difference was the third round, where Waldo simply outlasted Wilson. Waldo managed to get Wilson against the ropes where he connected on enough hooks and straight rights for Wilson to he asscssed a standing-eight. In the end, it was Waldo coming away with a unanimous deci­sion. 
"Kurt was the first guy l sparred with, and he killed me, so I knew what he was like coming in." Waldo said. "I knew whoever won that third round would win it" 
150 Pounds 
Senior captain J.IL " 1\faddug" Mellin capped off an excellent four years in Bengal Bouts with a unanimous deci• sion over Dennis "The Natural Disaster" Abdelnour for the 150-pound title. 
While Abdelnour came into the title bout with two knock­outs, what may have been overlooked was Mellin's ability to also stand in and trade punches. After a closely fought first round, Memn broke it open in the second by knock­ing down Abdelnour with com­binations to the head. Abdelnour came back swing­ing furiously, and he did land some damaging hooks that bloodied Mellin. 
"At first I felt pretty good, especially aftr,r the knock­down, but he came back after that. He's a really hard hit­ter," Mellin said. 
Mellin avoided getting into trouble in the third, fighting more conservatively to earn the decision. 
"At the advice of my corner, I was up on points, and with the cut above my eye l needed -to dance some." 
This is Mellin's second title in four finals appearances. 
155 Pounds 
In the 155-pound card. Jeff ''The Pittsburgh Kid" Dobosh took the title with a unani­mous decision over Paul "lie­Man" Mehan. 
Both fighters struggled to land combinations early, but the second round turned into a slugfest where the momentum swayed back and forth. By the third round, Dobosh was in control, countering Mchan with jabs and straight rights that almost knocked off the helmet of his foe, leading to a standing-eight. 
"I love the counterpunch. but he didn't charge so I had to be the aggressor, and that's not my style," Dobosh said. "In the third [round], he felt he had to come to me. so that worked well." 
Dobosh was especially thrilled to meet Muhammed Ali after his victory. 
"I met [President] Clinton, and that was nothing, but [after meeting Alil l was in total awe," he said. 
160 Pounds 
In a battle of surprise final­ists, Chris "My Nickname Was Excised" Matassa needed just over a round to take the title in a technical knockout of P.J. "Downtown" Duwors. 
What became apparent early on was the significant reach advantage of Matassa, which he used to land several dam­aging hooks and capitalize with uppercuts when Duwors put his head down. 
The second round began with more of the same, as Matassa landed jabs and hooks at will. The fight was stopped 29 seconds into the round for what appeared to be only an interruption for bleed­ing, but Matassa was soon declared the winner. 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, March 6, 2000 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Graves' play opens door to Notre Dame's success 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN AssiSlant Sports Ediror 
WASIIINGTON. D.C. 

Notre Dame men's basketball coach Matt Dohertv snid Saturday that sophomore David Grav!ls· play in the paint is a kPy ingrcdiPnt in the recipe for Notre !Jame success. 
"You know Troy [Murphy] is going to compete," Doherty said. "You know Harold [Swanagan] is going to compete. You know IYan [Kartelol is going to compete. David's the key, I think. to our front-line. and he really came out and bat­tled and boxed out." 
ff Graves is the kev, thP door to victory is wide-open for the Irish following Grawis' tremen­dous pr,rforrnance against Georgetown. 
The 6-foot-6 forward domi­nated the boards for the Irish, lighting his way to every loose ball. His 13 rebounds. 10 of them on the defensive end, kept Georgetown from connecting on sPcond and third chance shots. They also helped :",J'otre Dame gain a 51-29 rebounding advan­tage in its final regular-season game. a 77-54 victory on the road. 
"I was most impressed with their rebounding," Georgetown head coach Craig Esherick said. "I knew they were a good shoot­ing team. but I thought they rebounded the ball very well, particularly Graves. They beat us to every loose ball, outhus­tled us." 
Graves averages just 4.9 rebounds per game, but provid­ed fans with a glimpse of his power potential, nabbing 12 rebounds against Vanderbilt in December. 
Because Graves is not the pri­marv rebounder for Notre Dam·e. his extra rebounding against Georgetown gave the blue and gold an unexpected boost. If one rebound equals a two-point basket, Graves' "bonus" rebounds prevented a 16-point swing in favor of the Hoyas. 
"To get 13 rebounds -you know, the whole team compet­ed," Doherty said. "But he 
ATTENTION 
UNDERGRADUATE 
AND GRADUATE 
STUDENTS 
WORLDWIDE 
ENTER.COM 
PURSUE JOB AND ll'. TERNSHIP OPPORTUNITIES 
THAT SPAN 
THE GLOBE 
t~ampus . Center.com 
~I The world~ largest campus job lair 
[Graves] was very imprnssivc." 
Graves added 14 points rm tho offensive end. one morn than his spason average. As in rebounding, Craves !ms had his ups and downs in scoring. rang­ing from a rock bottom of three points in a loss io Maryland to a high of 33 in Notro Dame's overtime loss to VandPrbilt. 
Graves was six for 10 from the lield against. the I loyas, hit.­ting shots from all over tho floor. He muscled his wav inside for three lay-in shots· in tlrn paint. lie hit two short jumpers from opposite views of the hoop. And he mitted his 66th 3­point field goal of the season, the third highest total in school history.
"We had seen what the teams have done to us," Graves said. "They've really jumped on us and got in the lead. We just wanted to come out tonight and just jump on thorn. so I think we did a great job today. We played the best basketball wo've playeel all year." 
Graves' line of statistics in Saturday's box score didn't show a single goose egg. Ile recorded two steals. two blocks and one assist. On the down side, he also gave the ball away three times. The most telling statistic, however, is that Doherty was pleased enough with Graves' play to keep him on the court for the entire 40 minutes of the game. Graves didn't get a rest from the open­ing tip-off until the final buzzer. 
"This one's just rewarding," Graves said. "It's rewarding to get a win like this and in the fashion that we did." 
Notre Dame's second-leading scorer behind Troy Murphy, Graves is a guy who builds on momentum and. unfortunately. slides into ruts. 
Every game he scored in dou­ble digits has led to a string of high-scoring games. Likewise, each game he has been held lo single-digit scoring, with the lone exception of fast week's nine-point outing against Syracuse, has been followed by another. 
The 14-point performance at Georgetown followed nine points versus Syracuse, so it should bn the l"irst of s,weral double-digit gamrs. With Graves in a rhythm, tlrn Irish can count on solid shooting and rebounding. 
When lw gPts into a groove, Graves is tlrn go-tn guy for tlrn Irish. 
In the pm-season NIT, he hit a jump shot at the buzzpr lo hand Notre Dame tlw victory ovnr rnlurning Final hmr team Ohio State. Last month, Craves knocked down a jumper with .3 seconds remaining to give Notre Dame a 76-74 win over Seton Hall on the road. 
Although just a sophomore, Graves plays a commanding role for the Irish. After Notre Damn's two-point loss to No. 9 Syracuse Wednesday, a deter­mined David Graves promised that his team would not give up on the rest of thn season. 
"This team has a lot or char­acter," Graves said. "We're not going to quit." 
One of Graves' primary goals in coming to Notre Dame was to bring Notre Dame back to its glory days -the days of sold out crowds. excitement on cam­pus and regular trips to the NCAA tournament. He's been helping the Irish to deliver, as fans have returned to the Joyce Center in droves and the Irish have beaten five top-25 ranked teams. 
With the Big East Tournament beginning Wednesday, the Irish need a tournament title or at least a strong run to stand a chance of going to March Madness for the first time in 10 years. 

"We still have chances for the NCAA tournament," Graves said. "We're going to keep working hard. We're going to come out with a lot of intensi­David Graves looks for an open player in Saturday's win over ty." Georgetown. He finished with 14 points and 13 rebounds. 


I ____ _ 
Monday, March 6, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TOM KEELEY 
JEFF BEAM

FOURTH AND INCHES 
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 
't'ov l',.I\IOW W1411, 1 t\lS5 QP£.t,ht161\\£. ,-.111L,go)'.. A~t> "'! E\/EN MISS 1"~E. StJNI;. iME l'".OST ABOUT l!.'Ell'I<":, .5:t:EI~ ~ \J\11,-E EtJ\l'ElOPE ,.._41,IL. '"ft.le. EtJO\.t'.SS Ol'fal.S l\'wf..'I F~OI'\ ~Olo\t.Z , Sf'&:.1f1U.LL Y ;,..ot>V-.ES!>EC 'To ANO (OITTE.$1"!,.-r~t RJn-1,1,.~~s 
llurnNED AGAINST RBLUE·Gf\RY OCTOBER 5~Y... 
__...,. ('\£. 1<;. OIJE OF 'T4'E b~T f'H"I..WGS. IW 'f)lE WOfll.D -.os. 1: f'i\$'.>"TllEI.\ Au.. 

\\'IE MlltlL <.~TM.i:)(:.S. •-'~ !,\\k-1.E.le~S 
Fox TROT  
HO\.Y tow! TAICE ,.. Look' 14.T THIS WEATHER FORECAST! '­ !SUNNY...DR'Y.•• 00 HIGHS tN TI,E  T-SHIRT AND SHORTS, HERE l COME! '  

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26Sombrero accompanier
1 False witnesses 30 Transparent& Vocalizes like 
32 "--'Clock

the Beastie Boys Jump"1oParks in 1955 
news 33 Classic soft drink
14 Venezuela's 35 Italian tourist 
--Falls 
center

15 Clairvoyant's start 
39 Third-stringer 16 Has a tab 41 Sharpshooter's gift
17 Suffix with sea or moon 42 Beat bya whisker
1a Grocery vehicle 19 College course 
43 Use weasel division 
words 

44 Meat loaf given period serving 22 Trait 46 "Holy moly!" 
determinant 47 Papa Doc ruled 23 Pirouette point it 24MacNeil's 49 Stats for a 
longtime partner porous defense 20 Production in a 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
21 Hoodlum 
25 Move carefully (into) 


L A V A ~.++=-N A 26 Swanky 
E V E R ~~.=..,.=.+:...:. K S 27 Years ago 
T E N D L.:...J.:..1.:..:..i:.;..i.;::. S E 28 Uncool sort 
51 Battle site of 1916 54 Gulped down 55 Mideast bigwig 
56 Pro-slavery Northerners, before the Civil War 
63 Mission cancellation 64 Folklore fiend 65 Speechify 66 Lone Star State sch. 67 Chemicals giant 68 Hertz --Car 
69 Slippery critters 10 Sita spell 11 Alma-­
DOWN 
1 In the cellar 2 Rainfall 
measurement 3 Lab gel 4 Bank takeback 5 Mr. Mota, e.g. &Nouveau-­7 "Hurry, please!" a Pizarro 
conquest 
9 Avoid a trial 10 Hero of 1898 11 Dog tag datum 
BILL AMEND 
You Mt6HT HAVE ToLO ME 'YOU W£RE REAOtN6 OLD NEWSPAPERS FOR SCHooL. 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
The 2P' Century version of the Four Horsemen. 
beam.1 @nd edu 

HOROSCOPE 
MONDAY, MARCH 6, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Rob Reiner, Ed McMahon, Tom Arnold, Stedman Graham, Kiki Dee, Shaquille O'Neal 
Happy Birthday: You will have to be well-organized and strategic if you want to reach your goals this year. Your sensitivity might stand in your way if you take things too seri­ously. Lighten up and stay positive. It's time to open your eyes to unique lifestyles. Be patient and persistent, and you will get ahead. Your mun• bers: 13, 19, 20, 26, 31, 38 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You may find it difficult to concentrate on your work. Emotional problems at home may be interfering in your pro­ductivity. Take a mental health day rather than do a bad job. 0000 
TAURUS (April 2().May 20): Stay away from people whom you just can't count on. The stakes are high, and there will be no room for error. You may feel lonely if you have to go out oftown on business. 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Prob­lems with joint financial ventures may lead to discord. Someone you thought you could trust may be doing you out of what's rightfully yours. 00000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may not be \'leased if you confront your mate WJth a heart-to-heart talk. Deception has built a wedge be­tween you, and it isn't likely that you can put the pieces back together. 
000 
LEO (July 23•Aug. 22): Trans­portation delays may be annoying. Stop and call in if you're stuck in traffic. Stay cahn and make the most of a bad situation. Someone at work may be trying to make you look bad. 
000 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl 22): dti1­dren may be hard to get along with. You can't give in to all their wants. Don't get involved in other people's schemes. You will find yourself exhausted if you take on too much. 
000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0cl 22): Uncer• tainties about your relationship could be causing more upset than you thought. Take some time to be alone, and question your motives regarding an individual who has been pursuing you. 00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov, 21): Chances are you'll get praised for a job well-done. Jealous co-workers may try to get your dander up. Focus on your goals and refuse to get involved in petty arguments. 00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Someone may be trying to undermine you when it comes to legalities or financial investments. Listening won't cost, but don't put your cash on the table. 0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22•Jan. 19): An inharmonious situation at home may lead to stress and minor illness. Try to stay calm, go to the gym with friends, and release a little of that excess energy. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't take everything at face value. There will be hidden matters, which could alter the results. Steer clear of intimate relationships with co-work­ers or employers. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't donate to groups unless you are totally sure of their intentions. You will find that someone is reluc• tant to answer all your questions. Research before getting too involved. 
000 

--.:..:.+:::J.:::.C.!J 13 Autumn bloomer 

F'uzzla by Fred Plscop  
29 Cold comfort?  48 Like some pools  57 Look lustfully  
30 Burger or dog topper  or paint 50 -­Judaism  58 "QB VII" author 59 Field of study  
31 Vegetable soup bean 34 All-star game side, often 36 Waffle brand  51 Stage or stadium, say 52 Ham itup 53 Star in Orion 54 Insurance seller  60 Defeatist's word 61 Politically incorrect suffix 62 Mark with a branding iron  
37 Warm, so to speak  

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
38 States further 
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
40 Belle's man 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 45 One of Alcott's best of Sunday crosswords from the last "little Women" 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Birthday Baby: Inquisitive best describes you. You're always looking for something new to do and curious about everything that you come across. You will be entertaining and therefore very popular throughout life. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialaslcom, astromate.com.) !Cl 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 
HOCKEY CCHA TOUHNAMENT-Mnrch 10., 11, 12 
First Hound {March 10., llJ 12} Tickets are on sale now!! 
Play-In Game {March 14} Tickets also available!! $11 Adult~ $6 Students Er Youth 



Student Ticket Pick-Up March 7th .. {First 150are free.} Gate 3 Ticket Windows $6 afterthe 150free tickets 


Title fights 
With boxing legend Muhammed Ali in attendance, the 70th annual Bengal Bouts came to a close Friday. 
PORTS 
pages 18 & 21 

page 24 O~ERVER Monday, March 6, 2000 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Notre Drune advances to se01is with victory over Miami 
.. 
By TIM CASEY 
Sporrs W1·irer 
STORRS. Conn. 

The pwparation for the 2000 Big East tournament began eight days ago. following a 77­59 loss to top-ranked Big East Connecticut. 
Tournament

The Irish harl more Notre Dame 67 than a week Miami 52 to get really See Also 
for th11 stretch run "Irish struggle in of the sea­
quarterfinal win 

son, one they hope over Hurricanes" leads deep 
page 14

into March. And they knew it began Sunday, with a first-round Big East tournament game against Miami. 
The Irish overrarne their own poor shooting early on and a tough Miami defense through­out to emerge with a 67-52 vic­tory. But by the way they played against the llurricanes you could ha\'e sworn their l'ocus was elsewhere, presumably on a rematch with the Huskies in the final on Tuesday night. 
"We had a week to prepare but we didn't have a week to prepare for Miami -we just had a dav to do that," hear! coach Muf'f'ot McGraw said. "I think it was hard to focus on just one wam." 
That lack of focus almost hurt the Irish, 
"We took a coupk days nff of practice !this week(," McGraw said. "13ut I think it looked likti we took the week off." 
Miami, which had lost twice earlier in the season to Notre Dame, played aggressively the entire game. Their full-court pressure and trapping half-court defcnsP-forced tho Irish to 
turn the ball over and unchar­
aclnristic 23 timr,s. 
"We don't want anybody to 
ouLhustle us." Miami guard 
Slwila .James said. 
"Because we know we were 
tlrn undordogs we had nothing 
to lose tonight. We playPd like it. 
was our last ganrn. We left 
evcffything out on thn floor." 
f\1 cG raw creel itecl ttw · Hurricanes l'or their hustle. 
"I thought their pr<\SS really 
slowed us down," she said. 
"They did a grna.t job control­
ling the tempo of the game for 
the first 30 minutes. We weren't 
evPr rnally able to get that 
spurt. .. 
The teams traded baskets for 
much of the first ha.If. But Notre 
Dame look a 32-25 lead into the 
locker room at halftime despite 
shooting 37.9 percent from the 
floor. The Irish also had 14 
see WOMEN/page 14 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish answer wake up call 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Spons Editor 
WASHINGTON. D.C. 
Prior to Saturday's Big East showdown with Georgetown, first-year head coach Matt Doherty pre­sented his 
players with Notre Dame 77 a challenge. Georgetown 54 .. 5 k i P See Also 
Meyer [the 
"Graves' play
trainer] and 
I were talk­opens door to ing before 
Notre Dame's
the game and Im told success" me that 
page 12
Notre Dame had never come out and play!ld Willi against Georgetown," Doherty said following the Irish's 77-54 trouncing of' the Hoyas. "I challenged them before the game to come out and be the aggressor and set the tone." 
The Irish did just that. 
Freshman Matt Carroll scored 13 of Notre Dame's first 20 points and the Irish jumped out to a 25-6 lead in th(; opening 10 minutes of Saturday's game at the MCI Center in Washington, U.C. 
"I felt like I got into a rhythm and had somfl open looks," said Carroll who fin­ished with 16 points and three 
see HOOPS/page 17 By BILL HART 



Senior Sports Writer 

Looking at the crowd on Senior Night at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse, one might have seen a few fans crossing their fingers. But with the events of Notre Dame 2 
the paSt MichiganState2
week, Irish hockey fans had many reasons to be ner­vous. 
While Notrn Dame did hold a two-point l1rnd on fifth place in the CCII/\ and the last playoff spot played on their home ico, sixth-place Ferris State had two games of its own against 10th-seed­fld Western Michigan. 
Meanwhile, Notre Dame was taking on l\·lichigan State, which holds the top pr,nalty killing and power play units in the conference. Even worse, the Irish onlv had 16 healthy skators to put on the ice against the Spartans, aftM sophomore David Inman was declared likely to miss the rost of the season due to illness. 
But through the emotions of the eight seniors, possibly playing their last home games at Notre Dame, the 
Irish Parned a 2-2 tie against the Spartans, good Pm>ugh to secure home ice for the first round of the CCIIA playoffs when combined with a loss by the Bulldogs·on Friday. 
"You don't like to have things out of your control." Poulin said about the playoff picture. "The ideal situation would have been for us to win tonight and tomorrow night, but you takP all tlw help you can get in this league. Home ice is a big advantage for us. We like this building and w11 play well at home." 
The Irish dodged a few bullets oarly in the first peri­od, including a Spartan pass which slid through the blue circle, after freshman goalie Tony Zasowski was puslwd away from the net. Both teams traded shots until tlrn 14 minute, 50. second mark of the first. when ldt wing Dan Carlson went coast-to­coast. evading two clefond­ers, en route to a scorn 
"Carlson's goal was obvi­ously highlight material.'' Poulin remarked. "I remem­ber seeing him do stuff' like that in high school." 
It was the junior's 16th goal on the season, with assists by senior defenscmcn Sean 
see HOCKEY/page 19 
at Big East Tournament at No. 8 Illinois CCHA Quarterfinals ar BYU
... 
SPORTS vs. Rutgers at Storrs, Conn. rfi') Thursday, 3 p.m. . vs. Ferris State ~·,, Saturday, .'3 p.m. 
... ,.:;.:::="I ~ ~,c,..
Today, 8 p.m. Friday-Sunday, TBA 
ATA •
ar Big East Tournament 

• Track Swimming at Denver \'S. Rutgers at New York at NCAA Championships 
at NCAA Zone Diving Saturday, I p.m. 
GLANCE ~ 
Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. Friday-Saturday, 3 p.m. Friday-Saturday, TBA 



