
Capital idea 
Aggies over easy 
There's more to see in D. C. than just 
The Irish upset the higher ranked 

Monday
the monuments. See what hidden 
Aggies 24-10 Saturday, pulling Notre 
gems Scene rPcommends. 
Dame back in the top 25. 
SEPTEMBER 4, 
Irish Insider
Scene . page 10 
2000 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIV NO. 10 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

LIZ LANG/The Observer 
From the end zone to the press box shadow, some things never change. Freshmen and seniors reflect on the 2000 football season opener and. .. 



Game day tradition 
By LAURA ROMPF News Writer 
SPniors and f'irst-vPar stu­dents not only sit on· difforent Pnds ol' till' student s8ction during Notrn Dame home football ganws. they also haw~ diffrrnnt cxperi8nces throughout tht1 weekend. Last W('rkPnd was no different. 
7:45 a.m. 
S1mior John Dickas wokP up narly Saturday morning. llis Turtl1i Cnwk apartmr,nt would soon bP f'ull of friends. and he had to start cooking break­l'ast. LikP manv seniors, llickas' football Saturday b•'gan with tailgating. Dickas servt'cl Pggs. bagels and drinks to his guests. 
"I Pnjoyecl hosting the tail­gatP a lot," he said. "Frnshman ynar I didn't know thl' plrnple throwing the tail­gates l wt-mt to. I didn't really know what was going on." 
''I'd much rather have the rnnfusnd frpshmen in mv liv­ing room than to be the" con­f'usnd f'rrshman in th!~ living room," he said. 
From Turlle Creek, Dickas rnntinuPd tailgating in the parking lots surrounding the stadium beforn going into the game shortly bl'l'on~ kick-off. 

11a.m. 
UnlikP Dickas, freshmen Lindsay Wind. Betsy Schroeder, Cara LeBlanc and Molly Donnelly wern still asleep at 7:45 a.m. Their f'oot­ball Saturday began by watclling their friend perform in the marching band's Concert on tho Steps at Bond llall. 
Wind said Saturday was the l'i rst tinw she truly knew she was a Notrn Dame student. 
"l finally had the realization that I am lrnrr.,." shA said. 

"The school spirit was awe­some." 
Each freshman already rec­ognized that Notre Dame's spirit is difforent from other colleges. "At state schools you do not get spirit like that," LcBlanc said. 
Noon 
Once inside the stadium, the frr,shmen looked toward seniors like Dickas who had already learned the cheers. 

Dickas knew the correct time to yell "Irish" during the kick off. Ile knew at the end of the third quarter the band would play the "1812 Ov,nturc" and everyone would chant "Bob." He knew that people would be hoisted 
sec GAME/page 4 



Saint Mary's returns to top of rankings 
By MOLLY McVOY Sainr Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's College is oner, again the br,st Midwest Lib8ral Arts College, according to the 
U.S. News and World Report rankings. 
In the issue that hits news­stands Monday. Saint Mary's reclaimed its No. 1 position. after falling to No. 2 last year. 
"I am very pleased that W8 are back at the No. 1 position that we deserve," said l\farilou Eldred, the College's presi­dent. 
Before last vear's No.2 rank­ing, the College rncorded five years at the No. 1 spot. Saint Mary's has never been out of the top 10 of the rankings since the survey began in 1985. 
"I think in our hearts and minds. we knew that we were always No. l," said Mary Pat '.'Jolan, director of admissions. 
The rankings are based on a variety of factors including the school's graduation and rnten­tion rates, the student:faculty ratio and the acceptance rate. It is not clear where the College improved this year to regain the top spot. 
"Is there som8 reason we're 
The Top 10 
U.S. News & World Report Rankings 
for Midwestern Liberal Arts Colleges 

1. 
Saint Mary's College, IN 


2. 
Saint Norbert's College, WI 


2. Taylor College, IN (lie) 
4. 
Hillsdale College, Ml 

5. 
Otterbein College, OH 

6. 
Principia College, IL 

7. 
Ohio Northern University 

8. 
Simpson College, IA 

9. 
Bethel College, MN 


9. Millikin University, IL (lie) 

No.1 this year and not last year? No, its just that we've always been strong," said Marv Lelik. director of institu­tion.al research. "It's just a matter of changes in the method of tlrn rankings." 
Recently, the rankings have been under fire for their valid­ity and consistency. In The Washington Monthly's September issue of this year. a report was released that ques­tioned the methods of the rankings. The publication 
see RANKING/page 4 



Freshman ID glitch affects 40 students 
By JESSICA NEEDLES ::--lews Writer 
Imagine being refused entrance to the dining halls because workers there claim you have already eaten three times in one day. 
This has been a problem for some Notre Dame first~year students, following several mix­ups with their University identi­fication cards. · 
The students are experienc­ing problems because of a printer malfunction that occurred while the cards were being made, according to offi­cials. 
As the cards were being printr,d, computer software temporarily went off line. During this time. some of the information about students con­tained on the cards became confused. As a result, the mag­netic strips and pictures on some of thB cards did not match one another. A student may have a card with his name and picture on it, but a magnetic strip registered to someone else. 
This has caused some stu­dents to have problems using their identification cards for dining. for example, a fresh­man signed up for on8 meal plan cannot use th8 program if he has an identification card with the magnetic strip of a stu­dent on a diffornnt meal plan. 
A student might also have trouble with Domer Dollars because of the mix-up. If one person uses his card to pu r­chase something, it may be another's account getting money deducted. 
However, the confusion with the identification problems is not widesprnad. According to Jim Herder, business and facili­ties manager, fewer than 40 students were affected. 
Most of the freshman ID problems have apparently been 
see CARDS/page 4 

page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 
New ideas, new beliefs 
I think that football games should only have 

l.h ree quartf'rs. 
Okay, that makes no sense. Three thirds'? Or what ahout four quarters that last for I 0 minutes nach'' 
Surt•, Saturday's game v1!l'sus Texas A&M University was f'un, but it was too long. 
It was too hot. A lot of students got sun• burned · It's only football. We can just change the rules. 
I rnalizn that some of the JH1oplc reading this agree with nm. I realize that somn of thn people reading this arP thinking I'm a stu• pid girl who knows noth­ing. 
This last group of pc,ople will simply dismiss me. 
Dismissing someonn 1ilse·s new idea is often vPry f'asy -much l1~ss timf'!-consuming than ndlcr.ling on the idea. But easier is not always b1!ltnr. 
In casn you're wondnring, this column is not about shorlnning football games. I only mentioned that idf'a to get your attention. But what I want to talk about is embracing rww and unfamiliar concepts. New ideas fore«' us to examine and refine our old idPas. 
llurnans once th()ught that the Earth was llat. WP'd still be thinking that today if no one had conw up with the crazy idea that the Earth was round. 
Examining new ideas is important in more than modern science. 
l.ooking at someone else's point of view on religion. politics or just about anything else ht\)ps to reline our own ideas. Sometimes Pxploring new concepts will make us realize our old id!rns were wrong. 
OthPr limns, we will grow to believe more strongly in the ideas we have. It is a dangfwous thing to accept ideas sim­ply becm1se they are traditional. A lot of Americans accepted .Jim Crow laws and dismissed the Civil Hights movement. 
Thankfully, a lot of other Amnricans exam­irwd discriminatory laws, realized they were wrong and embraced civil rights. 
While /\nrnrica today is by no means per­/'cct, it is a better place than it was a few dccadns ago during the height of segregation. 
Too often al Notn\ Dame -and in life in general -IH!ople avoid new ideas, points-of'­vinw or experiences because what is new can s<wm irrdevanl, strange or impractical_ 
You might think worrying about the length of football games is unimportant. 
Or you might think that shortening football games is a silly idea. I would have to agree with you. 
But peopl1! used to say it was silly to think Lim world was round. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Finn Pressly Christine Kraly Jason McFarlcy Graphics Erin Pirourck 
Jose Cuellar 
Sports 
Production Noah Amsta<lrer 
Kerry Smirh 
Viewpoint 
Lab Tech Par Kelly Liz Lang 

Th~ Observer (USJ>S 5'l'J 2-4000) i• published Mondav rhrough Frid:ty ~xt:rpt during, cx:1m ;ind vac.irion periods. The-Observer i-~ 3 mcrnhcj of tl11: A.sod,u,d !'re;;. All r<producrion righr, arr reserved. 
The Observer . INSIDE Monday, September 4, 2000 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 

Monday  Tuesday  
. labor Day: Notre Dame  . Music: Chicago Brass  
and Saint Mary's classes in  Quintet, Little Theaiflrl  
session; administrative  Moreau Center, Saint  
offices closed  Mary's, 7:30 p.m., tickets  
. Movie: Cinema at the  available at 284-4626.  
SniLe, "His Girl Friday,"  . Film: International film  
Anneberg Auditorium,  festival, Montgomery  
Snitc Museum, 7 p.m.  Theater, 8 p.m.  

UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS-ARLINGTON 
Texas students cheer 'Big Brother' star 
Broadcast communication junior Eddie McGP.e is being cheered by his University of Texas-Arlington classmates. McGee was cast earlier this summer on CBS's reality television show "Big Brother." "I've seen the show a couple of times, but I had no clue he went here," Ed Rike said. McGee and nine other housemates are spending three months inside an 1,800-square­f'oot house in Studio City, Calif., with no contact to the outside world and little privacy. Constantly monitonid by 28 video cameras and 60 microphones, the guests have their lives exposed on television six nights a week during their stay. The guests nominate two of their peers for possible expulsion, and viewers vote on who will leave. The last one remaining will receive $500,000. Now in it's 59th day, only McGee and five others remain. !looligan's Pub-N-Grub owner Jeff Burns said he favors McGee's chances because of the basketball player's attitude. "He's going to win because I really do feel Eddie's a genuine guy," he said. "Ito's not putting on a front." 
LOCAL WEATHER 

S Day South Bend Forecast AccuWcather •forecast for davrlmc conditions and hirh temoer.arures 
H  L  
Monday  ~  75  52  
Tuesday  ~  73  46  
Wednesday ~  72  53  
Thursday  ~  74  54  
Friday  ~  75  54  

Q,Q,~q~Q (f ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Vi.a AstJOC4'ted P,eu G,ap~t 

Wednesday 
. 
Meeting: Faculty Senate meeting. Boom 202. McKenna Hall, 7 p.m. 

. 
Lecture: "Guaclulupn: 


Thursday 
. Seminar: "Latin American Arna Studios Program Internship and Summ,~r Bnsearch 

Prophet of a New Humanity," Experiences 2000," Boom Virgil Elizondo, LiLtle C-10:1. llnsburgh Center TheatP.r/ Moreau Center, for International Studies, Saint Mary's, 7 p.m. 5::m p.m. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Planned bonfire divides Texas A&M community 
COLLEGE ST/\TJO!';, Texas 
One week into the fall semester -9 1/2 months after the 1999 Aggie Bonlire collapse -the Texas A&M University community rnmains divided over tho possibility of an off-campus bonfire on N[)V. 22. 
Student leaders, parents of the vic­tims and the administration have denounced the idea of a "renegade" bonfire as arguments intensify and Keep the fire Burning (KTFB) final­izes its plans. 
The Aggie community is divided between A&M president Hay M. Bowen's decision for a two-year moratorium on Aggie Bonfire and KTFB's commitment to building an off-campus bonfire this year. 
S1weral of the victims' families have written letters opposing the KTFH the tragedy. 


"There are 12 families that had 12 children taken from thom," the letter stated. "They can ncvor touch and hold their children any longer. Thfm• will never be closure for any of thcsti families." 
llis sentimrmts worn cd10nd in !ot­ters written by tlw lland and Ebanks f'amilies. 
"Our love f'or our daught1ir cannot be expressed enough, and we can only hop<' and pray that the students and former Aggies will rnconsidcr thPir actions in regards to having a bonfire this year," Adams wrote. 
Student body president Forrnst Lane, a senior political science major, 
Ken Adams, father of Miranda said he is encouraging students to 
Denise Adams, wrote that an off-cam­rospnct Bowen's decision and not to 
pus bonfire would not bring closure to take part in the KTFB event. 
INDIANA UNIVERSITY 
Mellancamp gives free performance 
BLOOMINGTON. Ind. 

John Mellencamp's free pcrl'ormance in Woodlawn Field at Indiana University Thursday drew a crowd of fans, both students and community members. "I think it was pretty good," Im said in a press confonmce fol­lowing the show. "It was pretty hot, but nothing like Nashville was." The rock star rnadn it clnar. though, that his impromptu show was by no nrnans a concert. "What happened today was just the opposite of what our concerts arc," Mellencamp said. He said concerts arc about business and promoting his music. "I was tired of everything being so structured in my lifo, tired of the music business," he said. Mellnncamp has bt~()n doing free surprise acoustic performancns in various cities this month. lie spoke of folk musician Woody Guthrie, as the inspiration for his tour. "Gulhrin usnd to go out and play for people in the fields," lw said. "Now, most people work in ol1icn buildings." Lt. Jerry Minger of the JU Police Department said bntwt!en 3,000 and 10,000 people attended the performanco. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeathe~ forecast for noon, Monday, Sept. 4. 
,,_.... .-....... ....-,,. 


C 2000 AccoWeather, Inc. COLO WA~M STATIONARY 
Prn•im.: ® © D High Low ShOYfer ¦ l,l'ia:Assoc;1alltdPr9H  D Rain  D T••tOt"ma  D FturrlM  D..,.,..  D ,..  sunny  Pt.Cloucty  Cloudy  
Allanla Baltimore Boston Chicago Houston  86 66 74 75 99  72 64 54 55 78  Las Vegas Memphis Milwaukee New York Philadelphia  93 92 68 84 85  75 74 53 62 64  Portland Sacramento St. Louis Tampa w,tm,nglon  72 82 87 88 85  54 55 68 73 63  

page 3

Monday, September 4, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Notre Dame wins CASE award for Christmas in April 

Entering its 13th year, Mendoza College of Business Special w The Observer Christmas in April is jointly received a silver medal in the sponsored b_y Notre Dame. the visual design in print category. The Council for the cily of South Bend, Lhe St. Margaret Garry, the college's 
Advancmnent and Support of Joseph Valley Building and director of communications, Education (CASE) has present­Construction Trades Council. serves as the magazine's edi­ed a silver mE1dal in its Circle and the Chamber of tor. 
Linda Dun, assistant dinictor

of Excellence Awards program Commerce of St. Joseph to tlrn University for its long­County. Based in Washington, of photographic and television time support of Christmas in n_c., the national Christmas in production. earned a bronze April in South Bend. April organization was found­medal in individual photogra­
Some 1,000 Notre Dame stu­ed in 1988 and annually phy for her body of work. dc~nts. l'acultv. staff and alum­assists some 70.000 homP­The CASE awards program ni annually participate in owners in 7 20 cities and identififls and rewards excel­
lence in alumni relations andChristmas in April, a nwital­towns across the countrv. 

The CASE award was· in the communications. The program

ization program that reno­
valns the~ houses of dozflns of category of individual student Plderly, disabled and low­involvement projects. areas of alumni programming, 
institutional relations, student

inconrn homeowners in the Notre Dame received two 
noighborhoods throughout other CASE medals this vear. recruitment, electronic media, South lknd. The alumni magazine 'ror the periodicals and publications. 
Volunteers from Notre Dame help repair homes along 
Miner Street in South Bend during this year's event. 
·held.last semester on April 15. 
. 

photos by 
ANDY WILSON 


I 
I 
Ii 
ll 
I 
THE SEMINAR 

• 
Service-learning through various sites in Appalachia, October 15-21, 2000 

• 
One credit Theology co·urse 


• 
Involves orientation & follow-up classes 

• 
Past participants in Appalachia Seminar are encouraged to appply as Site Coordinators 

• 
Presents opportunity to work, laugh, & learn with others 


The Appalachia Seminar during Fall and Spring break presents ~ unique service­learning opportunity. Students travel to a variety of sites in Appalachia which focus on issues concerning rural health care, the environment, women, children, and housing construction. Through hands on -work and person-to-person contacts, students experience the cultural richness of the area and begin to understand and analyze the social forces·that influence the Appalachian people. 
APPLICATIONS 

Available at the Center for Social Concerns Due date: Thursday, September 7, 2000 10:00 am $40 deposit with application 
(non-refundable if accepted) 
INFORMATION NIGHT 

Monday, Septe1nber 4, 7:30-8:00 pm @ CSC 
FURTHER INFORMATION 

Steve Recupero, Student Task Force Co-Chairperson, 634-1217
' 
Allison Reilly, Student Task Force Co-Chairperson, 243-1-842
I 
Center for Social Concerns, 631-5293
I 
I__ 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday. September 4, 2000 
Ga01e 
continued from page 1 
in tlw air after each Irish touchdown to imilatli lhe lep­rnchaun and do push-ups. 
llow<~vnr. Dickas said thcrn was still a f1wling of nnwness and anticipation for Saturday's galll(!, 
" Fr <! s hrn a n ye a r I didn ·t know what to rxpnct, and lwcausP ov••r thn µast thnw yPars l'v,i s1ien somn rcatlv good games and some bad gamPs too. I have tlw same !'XritPnwnt bP<·ausP I don't know whal to Bxpoct," lin said. 
Ttw most notable diffPrnnw b<;lwccn S!)lliors and frnshmen ani thnir SPats. 
"Obviously our seats wtHP dil'f'cn;nt ll'rom pnivious V<'arsl, out of the corner and in f'ront of the press box. i\llhou>-{h llw view of dw game was nnl that <lil'f<'rcnt. the view of the crowd was very ditT1ircnt. You'n1 moni part of llw nigulur nowd," Dickas said. 
Ttw frnshnwn said sitting in 
Lim sludrmt section was very 
nmotiorrnl. 
"It. was awesnnH' !wing thern wilh all tlw upperclassmen. l(iarning the cheers and watching pt>oplc be thrown up to do push ups. I realize I need lo gnt in shape to stand for four hours," Wind laughPd. 
Although Donnelly had been to Notre Damn games before, sitting in thl' student section was a nmv nxperience. 
"I grew up in South Rend, so I had bcnn to sev11ral games lrnf'orn. and I would always look ovPr at the student sec­tion," she said. "Today I couldn't s(ie it, but I knew I was part of it." 
Schcwd1ir sighted a similar rnalization. 
"! had watched the student section before. but today we wcne all together. It was absolutnly awesome," she said. "I lov,~c! when the football players came over and 1·.heercd with us at the end nf Orn game. Tlrny acknowlPdged the fact that they are students with us." 
3:30 p.m. 
i\s tlw game ended and the Irish lwat Toxas A&M 24-10, the f'rPshmiin's first game as 
Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 
Actors from the London Stage As You Like It 
by William Shakespeare 
Thursday, September 14 ............. 7:30 pm 
Friday, September 15 ................... 7:30 pm 
Saturday, September 16 ............. 7:30 pm 
Playing at Washington Hall Reserved Seats $16 • Seniors $14 • All Students $12 Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 
Notrn Dame students came to an end. 
"I think it is only going to get better," Wind said. "We had to win and we did." 
Donnnlly noted singing the "Alma Mater" after much of the bleachers had cleared out showed the common bond among the students. 
"When P.veryone sang. it really brought tho classes togetlrnr." she said, "ff you were a freshman or a senior, it didn't matter." 
FxlHrnstAd, sunburnAd and hungry. the freshnrnn r11turned to Badin. Some slept. Some showered. Each one ref1netPd on the events of the day. 
"We're going to remembP-r that forever,'' Schoeder said. "Our first football game, and we upset TP.xas A&M." 
4p.m. 
Unlike the freshmen. Dickas's l'ootball Saturday was not finished vet. 
After the game, hr returned to the parking lots around the stadium for more tailgating. From there. he headed back to Turtle Creek, where he swam with friends beforn getting ready to go out to a post-game cnlebration party. 
Although the anticipation and excitement of freshman vcar is so abundant. Dickas ~aid he's happy as a senior. 
"I enjoyed each stage then, but I am glad I am where I am now." 
But closer than ever is the time when he will no longer stand for the !'our-hour games -he'II be sitting. He won't rec­ognize 95 percent of the peo­ple around him -he may only know two or three. lie may not even stay for the school's fight song -he'II rush out to try to beat traffic and make it home at a reasonable hour. · 
"It's going to be weird next year -to be an alumnus. I see them in the parking lot talking lo people they havnn'l seen in months or even vears. They look like they arn·having a lo·t of fun. But in the games, it seems that they are reliving the memories I am having now." 
So Dickas has decided to takP full advantage of each minute he has left of football weekends as a Not!'(~ Dame student. Even if that means gntting up earlier on Saturday. 

Ranking 
continued from page 1 
review of the U.S. ~ews ,:ank­ings. 
Thr report found that "the principal weakness of the cur­r e n t approach is that the weights used to combine the various measures into an oventll rat­ing lack any defen­sible ein pirical or theoretical basis." 
U.S. '.'Jews replied by explaining that they imple­mented many of the recom­mendations iet forth by The National Opinion Research Center. 
"There has been a lot of con­troversy about these rankings and how much value they have," said Melanie Engler. director of public relations for the College. "But, the bottom line is, parents find them use­ful and students find them useful." 
"The rankings seem to serve parents and students well. and 
U.S. News prints its methodol­ogy in the issue for all to see, 

Check out more about the... 
to get married In the Catholic Church? 
would you Jilfe to prepare tor Confirmation with other Notre Dame students who are dedicated to growing in their faith? 
For more information about the Confirmation program, come to our first meeting at: 
Siegfried Chapel on Tuesday, Sept. 5th at 7:00 pm 
For more info: Fr. John Conley, CSC or Amy Seamon at 631-3389 
or stop by the office of Campus Ministry in 112 Badin Hall with any questions. 

so people can decide for them­selves whethc~r or not. t.o lend crodcnco to the rankings," Eldred said. 
Regardless of the controver­sy surrounding the rnnkings, reclaiming tho No. 1 spot is important to the College, esp<'­dally for tlrn admissions staff. 
"I think that anvtimc! we• can say we're No. l. ·especially in something as well known as 
U.S. Nows, that's somothing people look at," Nolan said. 
Eldred agreod that these rankings may be most impor­tant to prospective students and possiblf, donors for the Collcgfl. 
"It helps us mainly in recruiting a n d 
fundraising because we have I.his  "This ranking is something we achieve  "Som P very fine institutions  
recognition  as a community."  ·arn  in  our  
that we  are  cal.egory and  
No. 1," Eldred said. Although  Crissie Renner student body president  wn re very happy that we're No. I,"  
the rankings  Lelik said.  
are  often  Whnthcr  

aimed at incoming students, or not the rankings arn valid the reputation of No. 1 is or the methods questionable. something that affects the the student body is proud of entire student bodv. the Collegn's return to the top. 
"The ranking ·is a prime "This ranking is something example of how hard we work we achieve as a community," here," said Michelle Nagle, Renner said. "It's a recogni­student body vice president. tion of tlrn excellence of our "It shows the rest of the world faculty and tho quality of our how special we are." studont body." 
encouraged to chock monthly emails they rcceivn containing current Domnr Dollar bal­ances. Any inconsistencins dis­covered will be reimbursed. Those still having difficulties should go to the Card Services Office in thn bascmrnnt of tlrn South Dining Ila!! to havo a new ID card printnd. 
"I Being No. 11 is an impor­tant imagn for tlrn col Inge," Lelik said "It's an honor to have that first plarn 11nish." 
Last y(:ar's t.op college, Ilillsdaln Collcg11, foll lo No. 4 this year. In turn. Saint Mary's pulled back t.o No. I and St. Norb()!'l Collcgo and Taylor University jointly claimed No. 2. 
"Bning No. I is prool' that Saint Mary's has canwd a national reputation as a leader in ndur:at.ion." said Crissie lfrnnPr, studnnt body presi­dent. 
The top four spots are very close, once again, with only seven percentage points sopa­
rating No. I 
from No. 4. 
Cards 

continued from page 1 
fixed, he said. 

"I would doubt that there are still any problems out there, but there's no way of knowing until a person has a problem," HerdP-r said. 
Prompted in part by this year's problems, the card­making process will change 11exl. fall. 
"Before the card is handed to anyone, they'll be checked, verified on the screen and visually matched up," he said. 
Hight now, students are also 

Monday, September 4, 2000 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
French protest fuel prices: French truck drivPrs and farmers µrcµarcd Sunday to blo('k f'md rcfi1wrios and storage areas nalionwid<'. the lalt>sl rl1·vcloµment in a 1111tio1111I v,avf' of' protPsts ovt>r rising fuel pricf's. The Transport Ministry said n(•gotia· lions with trnck drivPrs' unions werP ongo• ing. bul Lrurki>rs said Llwy hud sus1wndnd LIH' talks this v\'l'l'kl'ml Lo n'ady for tlw block­adns. FrPHd1 tnwkprs say the cosl of diesd ftll'I has risPn 40 JWITP!ll in t!w past yPar lo about $2.ii:i pc•r gallon. comparnd to a cur­n•n l avPragP of' $1.58 1rnr gallon in the UnitPd StatPs. Al'lPr Britain. France has the hig}l('sl !'uc•l taxns in tlrn Europnan Union. 
Colombia seizes 3 tons of cocaine: 
Tlw Colombian navy intercepted a sp<wdboat off its 1',u·il'ic f'Oast on Sunday and seized thrPn tons of cocai,w. the navy said. Two Jl('oplP were arnislNI in tlw opc'.ration. which turrwd up mon• than a hundred packages sl.lllTPd with cocaine. Adm. Carlos Pineda said. A rPn\ntly approved $1.:~ billion U.S. aid packago f'or Colombia is aimed at lrnlpiug tlw country PradicatP il]Pgal drug crops and stn;ngtlwn air, land and sea interdiction. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Texan refuses to surrender: For six wE1eks. a f'elony assault suspect and more than a dozen of' his relatives -including sPvPn rhildrPn -have berm holed up in a rPn10tP spot some 50 miles southeast of Dallas. Thfi adults stand guard 24 hours a day. Tlw suspfict. 51-year-old John Joe Gray, chargPd with trying to take a Texas lkparlm1!nl of' Public Safety trooper's gun and biting him aftnr a traffic stop, says he won't surrnndt;r_ lie has a two-year supply of f'ood and arsf~nal of weapons. Henderson County sheriff Howard "Slick" Alfred insists Lh!'rn's currnntly no plan Lo storm the proper· ty. "I rnally think he'll get tired of all of it," said AlfrPd. 
Coast guard suspends search: One woman vvas frarNI dead after 16 Haitians jumped from .a boat and attemptted to swim asbon' in a susplH'LPd migrant smuggling altl•mpt. Th,· U.S. Coast Cuard suspendPd its sc•arl'h for thP missing woman Sunday. :\uthoritii>s sPiZPd an abandoned 29-foot rnbin tTlliSt!r lwlit!vnd to be! tlw vessel that transportvd tlw migrants to an inlet off Singer Island. just off of West Palm Beach. TIH' migrants wern spotted in the watPr late Saturday by witnnssns, who called authori­tins. Smuggl<'rs appan~ntly told the migrants to jump into tlw watPr, tlw U.S. Border Patrol said. SPVl'ral migrants told authnritins they paid a smugglc•r·s l'PtL 
Market Watch 9/3 

Dow 
JONES  11238.78  +23.68  
Up, 1.626  Same: 5.H  Down: l,l~•  Composi1e Volume: 766,460,032  
AMEX:  955.78  + 12.30  
Nasdaq:  4234.33  +27.98  
NYSE:  677.58  +3.05  
S&I' 500:  1520.77  +3.09  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

t:OMPANY/.SECURITY %CHANCE $GAIN PRlCE ,:l.lll\,\I ('\i<lSSINC iClllXI .,1 (i.K2 .~.o:;7.:; y;_12 \WllAI 1\'ISION INC (\\VSN\ + 1i.!l +4.¼0U j,90(. CISCt1 WS \'H1S !CSU ll •.09 • .(J{l'1(J Ml.'16 
m:u CllMl'U IEI( llll·.1 \.) 1.10 ..,650 43.0(, FOHll ,\\llHlH CO Ii'/ , l . .l{, .-0.RJl'i 2i;.nn 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SEllVICES page 5 
COLOMBIA 


The guerrillas arrived in of them were FARC crops. U.S. and Colombian 
Associated Press 

three trucks and a jeep, rebels. officials hope the $1. 3 bil-
BOGOTA, Colombia some dressed in camou­Seven airmen died when 1ion anti-narcotics aid 
Rebel violence left 35 flage and others as police. their U.S.-built AC-46 package will weaken the people dead over the Rebels shot to death the gunship, which was sent rebels and push them weekend following four officers posted at the to support ground troops, toward peace by cutting President Clinton's visit to station and ambushed slammed into an Andean into a major income Colombia, including seven reinforcements as they peak. At the mountaintop source: taxes the FARC police officers slain by arrived, killing three communications complex levies on the cocaine guerrillas -some of more policemen, Duran they were protecting, trade. whom were disguised as added. eight soldiers died in But some critics have police. Nine officers survived fighting with guerrillas. said the aid. including 
rn the latest attack, left­the attack. in which The rebels were unable helicopters and troop ist guerrillas from the rebels also destroyed the to take the complex, training, is skewed Hevolutionary Armed public telephone office in which controls cellular toward the Colombian Forces of Colombia, or the town in Guajira State. and other telephone links military, leaving police GARC. sneaked up on a about 475 miles from the to much of western forces increasingly vul­police station Saturday in capital, Bogota. Colombia. nerable. northern Colombia. offi­At least one FAHC fight­Clinton's visit to the Colombia's neighbors cials said Sunday. er died, police said. war-torn South American have also expressed fears 
The assault took the Twentv-seven other country was meant to that U.S. aid will increase small town of Tomarrazon people were killed in support President Andres the intensity of the war by surprise, said National heavy overnight clashes Pastrana's fight against and cause fighting and Police operations director that ended Saturday in drug traffickers and leftist drug crop cultivation to Gen. Tobias Duran. western Colombia. Twelve rebels who protect drug spill over the border. 
Rain, snow slow pace of western fires 
Associated Pres, 
HELENA, Mont. 
Hain and even snow helped fire­fighters make major progrnss to con­tain western wildfirns Sunday, althou!,{h a blaze sparked by light­ning forced Urn evacuation of a national monument 011 a busy Labor Day weekend. 
Four tour buses and hundreds of tourists were turned away Sunday from Devils Tower National Monument in northeastern Wyoming because a 1,550-acre fire was burn­ing about 2 1/2 miles away, officials said. 
DP-vils Tower. a tn~e-stump shaped tower of exposed volcanic rock that 

looms 1,000 feet above wooded ter­rain and prairie dog towns, attracts 
450.000 visitors annually and is a favorite of climbers. American Indians consider it sacred. 
Pirefighters had the blaze about 80 percent contained Sunday evening as they attempted to ovrircome 20 mph winds, Crook County Deputy Fire Warden Gary Cill said. 
"They're kind of kicking us pretty hard right now," Gill said. 
In Montana, rain and snow made steep terrain slippery and hazardous for firefighters. Crews stopped dig­ging fire lines at a 20,000-acre blaze on the Flathead Indian Reservation ber:ause of the wet rocks and mud. 
"It was so cold in camp that we had frost,'' Forest Service spokes­woman Sheela McLean said Sunday at the Bitterroot Valley rims, which account for half of the state's charred acreage. 
The damp conditions. though, helped l'irefighters make consider­able progress, said Neil Hitchcock of the National lnteragency Fire Center in Boise, Idaho. "We may have turned the corner on the fires in Montana and Idaho, but we aren't out of the woods yP-t." he said. 
The center said that while weather in the West had improved, hot, dry weather still dominated parts of the Southeast and the Plains. Several new fires had been reported in Texas, it said. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 Monday, September 4, 2000 
Bush, Gore agree to three debates
Right wing celebrates 
Associated Press 
Lieberman's religion 

. But critics note issues still matter 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 

llcligious consNvalivcs who want to mix God and politics arc chenrnd by .Joseph lfoberman's Pxprns­sions of l'aith, but sUII dis­likP-the IJPmonatic prcsi­d!\l1tial tickPt. 
Christian Coalition fo111Hlcr Pat Hobertson said Sunday thal he found the statements by l.iebertnan. who is .Jewish. refrnshing after President Clinton's p11rsonal trials. Lieberman. a vicn prtisidcntial candi­date. has talk(id about 
with how
"As a Hepuhlican.

religion oftrrn godly they are 
King Live;" and Oct. 17 at sincn joining I'm not particularly and how 
Washington University in St. Louis.
Dnmocrat Al pleased because he'.s much God has Gore. a part in their 
The proposal also includes
gaining a lot ofvotes
"II<' feels I i f e , " 

two vice presidential debates: Lhis cltwply for Al Gore." Abraham 
Oct. 11 in Winston-Salem, N.C., and that's why Foxman. 
and a later forum yet to be tl11~ rl'ligious national 
decided, Bush said.
Pat Robertson

conservatives director of 
"The debates we're acceptinglikn him a lot Christian Coalition founder begin early next week becausethe ADL, 
and thi\y like Orthodox .Jews," Holrnrtson said on ABC's "This Weck." "They like peopl<' who will stand up for their faith." 
But Hobnrtson said he dis­liked that Lieberman's sin­cerity could attract mem­bers of tlH' religious right and t'ornrnr Democrats had who drif'tnd away from the party. 
"As a Bcpublican, I'm not particularly pleased because he's gaining a lot or vot<1s for /\I Gorn." Hobertson said. 
ConsNvative activist Bill Bennett all,1ged Democrats were laking advantage of 
Lieberman's tendency  to  
sp,mk about ndigion.  ·  
"As natural  as that is  to  

him. I think the political cal­culation is Urn most natural thing to tlw Gorn campaign. I'm sum they're seeing h1rw this is playing and thny'rc saying _'Stay at it Joe,'" B!'nnntt said on CBS' "Facn th!' Nation." 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
INTLRi"';'ATIONALSTlJDY PROGRAMS 101 Sec:urlly Buildlnt Nctre l>ani~, J:'<f Jf,5~J1Ji7 T: (119)"31-5"81 
Yu:: (21,j) 6.ll-5711 

AUSTIN. Texas Lieberman has used lan­
In talking about faith, 

The presidential candidates guage more identified with 
squabbled over debate sched­conservative evangelicals, 
ules Sunday as Republican including his contention that 
had accept­demand "freedom from rnli­
ed three gion," but only freedom "of' 
prime-time religion. Ile recently cele­
sessions. brated accomplishments of 
Democrat Al the Clinton-Gore administra­
Gore reject­tion by comparing them to 
ed the plan, llw parting nf the RHd Sea. 
saying the Such talk drew criticism 
formats pro­this past week from the 
posed by 


Bush
Bush could which warned Lieberman 
Anti-Defamation League, 
limit the that his rnpeated exprns­

audience and amount of face­sions of religion risked 
tu-face debate time. alierrnting some voters. 

Bush proposed debating Gore "Campaigning and candi­
as soon as next week. or Sept. dates are beginning to outdo 
12, during a special edition of each other 
NBC's "Meet the Press:" Oct. :, in Los Angeles on CNN's "Larry 

•Designs may NOT be derogatory toward
Julliet :Vlayinja, Assistant Director International Study Programs Te,:as A&M 

• Designs mav be for blue, gold, or green
TUESDAY SEPTEI\lBER 5. 2000 
shim
4:45 PM. -5:45 P.M. 
215 DEBARTOLO 

• Include your name, address, and phone number with design
ALL ARE WELCOME! 
which fights 
a n t i -Semitism. said on ABC. "We should talk about issues, not about faith on the campaign trail." 
Lieberman defended him­self Sunday in a confnrence call with reporters. 
"My own expressions of last week were really meant to be inclusive and tolerant. including tolerant of that minority of the American public that does not believe in God," he said before join­ing Gore on a 24-hour Labor Day campaign sprint through five statns. 
or the outcry over his reli­gious commnnts. Lieberman 
said: "Clearly this is not what the campaign is totally about." 
Television evangelist sided with Lieberman. Ilowevcr, he noted contra­dictions between Lieberman's faith and his polilics on such issues as ahortion. 

JERUSALEM INFORMATION MEETING 
With Fr. David Burrell, 

we're eager to compare the specifics of our plans for more individual l'reedom, choice and responsibility with our oppo­nent's plans for bigger, more intrusive Washington bureau­cracy that dictates and man­dates from afar," Bush said before outlining his proposal at a hastily arranged news confer­ence. 
Only one of the debates Bush accepted was recommended by a bipartisan presidential debate commission, which had pro­posed three 90-minute matchups between Bush and Gore to bfl aired by all net­works. Gore has said Bush must agree to all three before he 
would be willing to negotiate other alternate debates. The NBC and CNN debates would last 60 minutes. 
''I'm very disappointed in this reaction because what's needed is to respect the right of the 
American 


people to see these debates on all networks in prime time. the way it's been done since 1988," 
Gore Gore said 
whnn he was in Philadelphia. "It's not l'air to the American people to try to sharply reduce tho num­ber of people who can see the debates and rnduce thfl amount of time for the debates." 
Gore maintains that the three events proposed by the Commission on Presidential Dflhates will reach the wirlflst viewing audience, and .suggnsts Bush is trying to duck the high­profile nrnctings in tlrn final weeks of the campaign. 
Bush campaign chairman Don be their rival's weaknesses. 
Accusing Bush of ducking high-profile sessions, Gore's team suggests the Texas gover­nor is not up to the job of' facing Gore or running the country. Bush's team says Gore has reneged on his regularly issued challenge to debate Bush any­time and anywhcrn, and cast. the decision as another mark against Gore's crndibility. That dovetails with a new Bcpublican ad challenging Gore's veracity. · 
At the nnws conf"ornncn, the Bush campaign playod video snippets of Gorn accopting 
offors t.o  d<ihato Bush on  both  
CNN and NBC.  
"It's  important  for  the  

Amorican peopln to be able to trust tlrn next presid1rnt to keep his commitmonts and thernl'oro I take Al Gore at his word that he will be ther11," Bush said. 
Gore campaign chairman William Dalny said Bush should follow tlw r~xampln sot by his f'athcr, former President Bush. and 1996 GOP nominee Bob Dole and participato in tho commission diibates. 
"No candidat1i should arro-
Evans said the debates Bush agreed to would happen during prime viewing hours and that both CNN and NBC have agreed to make vidno feeds of the events simul­taneous I y 

"No candidate should arrogantly insist on debating only where and when it best suits him. " 
William Daley Gore campaign chainnan 
gantly insist on debating only whern and when it bnst suits him," Daley said. 
"Al Core has already accc!pted all t hre e of th c1 p rc1 s icl e n t i a I commission debatn invita­

available to the other networks. "These worn important crite­ria for us," Evans said. 
Bush also said the debates would be carried on the lntnrnet. 
Both campaigns am using the posturing over the debates to highlight what they pnrceivc to tions. It's tinrn l'or George Bush to act in the public's internst and do tlrn same." 
The commission issued a statement late Sunday, inviting rnprnsentativns of both cam­paigns to a nweting early next week to reach a final agrne­mnnt on fall dnbatns. 
Entry Deadline: 

September 8, 
Submit entries to:
2000 
ndam2001@att.net 
Or 
ND Club of Houston 
C/oJackie Herzfeld 
2110 Palm Castte Dr. 
League City, TX ns73 

Monday, September 4, 2000 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
VATICAN CITY 
Some question Pope's beatifications 
• Pius IX's alleged anti-semitic views draw criticism 
Assoda1ed Press 
VATICAN CITY 

Pope John Paul II advanr,ed two prndcr.essors toward saint­hood Sunday in one of the most disputed such acts of his papa­cy, beatify­ing the 19th centu­ry's much­at tac kfi d Pius IX alongside the 20th century's much­bolovfHI John XXIII. 
J11ws biWwly protested John Paul's r<~cognition of Pius, who ovnr history's longest papacy r,onfined Jews to Rome's ghet­to. condoned the church snizurn of a .IP-wish-born boy an~ alh~~:dly referred to Jews as dogs. 
Thi' Israeli government itself 11xpressed "deep sorrow," espe­cially in light of the progress John Paul's own 22-year papa­cy has made in Catholic-Jewish relations. 
.John Paul acknowledged the rancor. calling Pius "much loved, but also hat11d and slan­dered." 
"Beatifying a son of the church does not celebrate par­tir.ular historic choices that he has made. but rather points him out for imitation and for veneration for his virtue," said John Paul. repeatedly stressing Pius' faithfulness to thfl church rather than his adions toward the world outside of it. 
An estimated 100,000-strong crowd of kerchiefed, banner­waving pilgrims filled SL Peter's Square to the r,olon­nades for the beatifications, attended by black-clad leaders of Italy's most staunchly Catholic noble families and political cirr.les. 

On tho eve of the ceremony, hundreds of Rome's Jews and Catholics held a candlelight vigil to protest the beatification. which is the last formal step before possible sainthood. 
Elena Mortara, whose great­great uncle was taken from her .Jewish family by Pius' papal guards in 1858. called the beat­ification the "reopening of a wound." 
The church seized the 6-year­
ol d Edgardo Mortara upon hearing a Catholic housemaid secretly had baptized him. Edgardo grew up to enter the priesthood under Pius' patron­age. 
One frequently cited remark has Pius referring to Jews as "dogs," and declaring that "of these dogs, there are too point, I would expect the Vatican to show greater sensi­tivity toward thp, believers of other religions." 

The New York-based Anti­[)efamation League called the beatification "troubling." 
Pius' tumultuous 1846-1878 papacy saw the violent breakup of the centuries-old papal states. Noble-born Italians, of which he was one, gave him the name "The Last King Pope." 
In contrast, [talians today still know the jovial, jowly, peasant­born John XXIII simply as "The Good Pope." 
As the Vatican's envoy to Turkey during World War fl, John is credited with saving thousands of Jews with transit visas and other assistance ­although at one point he com­plained of a "convoy of Jews" heading to Palestine and its holy sites. 
John died of stomach cancer in 1963 less than five years into his papacy. 
W,>.eks before his death, he 
issued the 
heartfelt 
many of them  "Beatifying a son ofthe  "Pacem  in  
present Rome." presided  in Pius over  Church does not celebrate particular historic choices  Terris" (Peace on Earth)  
what  was  that he made ... "  encyclical  
Europe's  last  that  set  
enforced .Jewish ghetto  John Paul II  recognition of human  
until the Nazi  Pope  rights  as  
era.  essential for  
Israel's minis- w  o r  I  d  

ter for Diaspora Affairs, Rabbi peace. Pius had condemned Michael Melchior, expressed emerging civil rights in his own "deep sorrow" Sunday -con­1864 encyclical. veying a tone of disappointment Both popes presided over the repeatedly heard from Jews in only two Vatican councils of the wake of the beatification. modern times -Pius' enshrin­
Recalling John Paul's pilgrim­ing the dogma of papal infalli­age to .Jerusalem's Western bility, John's ushering in 1960s' Wall in March, Melchior said, liberalizations such as allowing "as someone who saw -the visit Masses in local languages as a positive, historical turning rather than Latin. 

Joit~ us for dinner and a-discussion on 
Wednesday, September 6 
at the CSC 
at5pm 
Everyone is welcome!! Please RSVP at 631-6841 by Monday, Sept. 4 Sponsored by Multicultural Student Programs and Services 

California earthquake strikes wine country 
Associated Press 

NAPA, Calif. 
The heart of Northern California's wine country was sharply jolted early Sunday by an earthquake that smashed windows and glass­ware and knocked out power to thousands. 
Two people were hospital­ized, one a 5-year-old boy in critical condition. 
"It was like someone was just holding the house and shaking it violently," said Alison Saether, who said plaster fell from the ceiling of her Napa home. 
"We were so panicked we couldn't even move," she said. 
Sunday afternoon, down­town streets were thick with tourists visiting shops and restaurants and attending a weekend fostival. 
Yellow police tape kept people away from areas where glass had shattered, and temporary stop signs were placed at intersections where traffic signals weren't 
working. "Usually it's a 
damage.
The quake hit 

rolling, but this was "We lost about
at 1:36 a.m. 
three bottles,"

and measured more ofa jolting . 
said Lessly Van

a magnitude My wife and kids Houtan, who
5.2. It was cen­

were screaming. It works in the
tered about 6 
tasting room of

miles north­was upsetting." 
Carneros Creekwest of Napa, 
winery.
near the small 

town of Mark Bunger "Everything is Y o u n t v i JJ e , California Highway Patrol knocked off the 
The shaking woke people as far south as San Francisco, some 50 miles away. 
"This was by far the most severe I've ever felt," said California Highway Patrol spokesman Mark Bunger, who said he has lived in the Napa area his whole life. 
"Usually it's a rolling, but this was more of a real jolt­ing. My wife and kids were screaming. It was quite upsetting," he said. 
He said his house in nearby Browns Valley had crar,ked plaster but no major damage. 
Power was restored by Sunday afternoon to most of the 10,000 customers who lost service, according to Pacific Gas & Electric Co. spokesman Jonathan Franks. 
Numerous homes had dam­aged chimneys. 
"We shook twice, back to back, with everything sway­ing, like a waterbed," said dispatcher Rick Wallace of the Sonoma County Sheriff's Department in Santa Rosa, about 30 miles northwest of the quake's epicenter. 
A few wineries 
reported minor 

according to the U.S. Geological Survey in Menlo Park. 
Two aftershocks by after­noon measured magnitudes 
1.5 and 1.8, and as many as 20 small aftershocks might be felt in the next week, according to the USGS. 
A magnitude 5 quake can cause considerable damage in the immediate area and one of magnitude 6 can cause severe damage. 
eFightinglrish.com 
The Marketplace 
shelves. 
Everything is 
broken," said Mark Christianson, a Long's Drugs store manager. 
At least 25 people were treated for injuries, mostly minor cuts, said Denise Mace, spokeswoman for Queen of the Valley Hospital. 
"When the quake hit, it dumped everything on the floor. There was glass every­where," said .Jerry Marquez, 33, who was being treated for cuts on his feet. 
One man was in serious condition at the hospital and a 5-year-old boy was in criti­cal condition because of head injuries caused by falling objects, Mace said. 

11111111 


Future Lawyer? Invitation to Seniors 
All seniors planning to apply for law school this year are invited to an informational meeting on the application process. 
Tuesday, September 5 
131 DeBartolo 
6 p.m. 
Ava Preacher Assistant Dean orArts and Letters and Pre-Law Advisor 
A discussion of all a..~pects of the application process: 
• 
timetable 

• 
choosing schools 


• 
how the LSDAS works 

• 
what is included In your application 

• 
preliminary information about personal statements 

• 
and more........................................... . 




___________ ___J 
VIEWPOINT 
O
fHE pagt: 8 BSERVER Monday, September 4, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P ( 1 Bm,. <J. ;\Jnirt• P.1nu.: lN ,..,,r;,-;c, O!·t ~\.llllh 1)111i11~ H.ill. N\ltrl,.' D.111\(' IN 4h::;.;.(l 
EDn Oil IN Ct IIH .\like Cnnnolll' 
MAr,;,11;1M, El11 IOR Bi ISINF.,S MAl'\Al,FI( No!'lTII C,11,·,pi,· Iim L:me 
Ass 1. MANACIN(; Enr ron 01•n1,1 noNs MAr-:A<:l,R ( ·1im11n,· Kr.,k llri.,n Ke,sk, 
NEW\ Elll l'OI!: Anne M,mc M,111i11l(ly Vtl'll''l'OINI' EDll'OR: I.ii., l Lt111;hr1· Sr•onr, EDI ma: Krnv Slllid1 S<:f.NE EntTOR: Arn,111d.1 ( ;rrco SAINT M,11lY's EmTOR: :--lolly MrVoy 1'110 rn Em rnR: Eli,.,th<·th L.111i; 
AllVUHISIN(; MANA<,fR: l'.1t f',•tc•rs All D1.>1,;N MANM;LR: Cl11is A,ila SYST&-:M.\ AllMINISTRATOR: :--.1ik,· Cunvillc Wrn AllMINISTRATOll: Ad.1111 Turner CON IROI.I.Ell: !\oh Wood, CRl\l'll!CS EDITOll: Jose ( ·udla1 
CONTACT Us 
01'!-&Cf MANM,l'fl/GFNF.RAI INl'O............(,5!-747( fax... . ....................... (dl-<,'>27 All\'1-RIISINC... . .. .............. (,\ J.(,<)()()/884() 
t)h,1:rn·r!!i\.brwin.ell.nd.,:du E!HTOH IN C!IIEI'.. .............................. 6.l l -4'i42 MANA(;IN(; EPITORIA.ssT. ME.................(,31-454 i B\IS!NF.'iS Omer. . ................ 631-';,~IJ Nrws ..... .........................................Cd 1-5323 
ohscrvcr.ohs11cws. l@rui.edu VIEWPOINT ................................... J,.l!-5.'\0J ,,hsl'l'\'t'r.vicw11oint. l@11d.edu SN>R r,........................................................(,5 I-4 54J ohse1ver.,ports. !@11d.e<lt1 
SCENE........................................................ (d l-4'i40 ob~t.·n·t·r..~<..Tn(·. }@)nd.c.du SAINT MARY'S ............................................6.i l-4_l2,j 
obscrvcumc. l@11d.edu l'110TO.. .........................................6J i-8767 SYSTEMS/Wm ADM!:',JSTRATORS.. ..........M 1-88.>9 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit m11 \X'cb site Jt b11t:llobm·,,,.,..Utlerl11 !in daily update, of l·~unpu"-nL"\VS• .\pons. foam rl's. ~md opinion tolum11:.••t... wdl .l~ G1noons. rt."\'iew~ .ind breaking: news from dw ;\!'>Slh.:i.itt·d Pr~s.'i. 
SURf TO: 
movies/n1usic fo1
weather !or up-to•thc· 
minlllt' lort:cast~ 
weck1~• slt1d1:,n n:vii:w., 
online features lt1r spe­
advertise Ji,r pokies 
rnd r.u,·, o!' print .ids 
cial r,unpus coveragl' 
about The Observer 
archives IO sc·arch for 
,11ud,·s puhli,l1cd att,·r 
ro meet rill' eJiror, ,rnd 
1\ugll\t (<)<)') 
staff 
POLICIES 
/'lw (Jl,"·n·,·, i., rhc imlt·pcndmt. d.,ily nt·w.,paper puhl"h,·d i11 prim .,nd unlinc hy 1lic ,wdcm, of thl' Uniwr,11\' of Nom· I ).11m· ,lu 1.ic and Saint .\ 1.,ry's l.{>lk·gl'. 1·.dit<1n;.1( Ullllcnt, indm!ing_ advcrrisemenrs. is not govnm.:d hr poliLit•~ o!' die ~1dJninistration n(cithcr mrnwi11m. Th,· Oh.,ervt·r rt".'il·rve., the rrghr rn rdi1se .u.. h·erw,t·n1t·nt, h,1:,nl t>ll (Onttnt. 
l'he 11cw, i, reported .1s accuratdy ,md objective!)· a, po"ihk-. L mignc,l cd1tori.,I, represcm the opinion of tlw m,11ori1,· llf the hlitnr in Chief. ,\fanaging Ediwr. A"i,r,m M.111.ti;ing l'diror .,rnf dl'p,mn1t·n1 l'diror,. (:omme11t,1nn. lc-tr,n .rnd columns present the view, ol tltl· .1uth,m .md not lll'Cl'.1S,1rilv tho><· ofThe ( )h,nwr. 
\·icwprnnt ,p.1n· i, .iv,ulablc 111 .,II reader,. Tlw free ,:xp1t·1i,iHn ol .di opinJom, rhrough lt·Ht'P• il cncouragn.L Ln1rr~ to thL· Ltliwr llllL"l b,: sii;rwd ,md mu~t indude 1...ont.1.tl inlorni;ittnn. 
Q11mm11.1 rry:,rrtl111y_ ( )/Jmn·r policte! ,/,o,,/d hr dm:,·t· ,-d 10 1:'d,1,,,-111 O,,e{M,lu Crmno/ly. 


Today I participated in an unrngistcrnd 
demonstration at ~otre Dame. Y1\S, I vio­
lated du Lac I!' only studnnts could b<) 
fhw on campus without breaking such 
rules! 
Tho right to gath­
Aaron Kreider
er and advocate, for 
a cause is critical !'or 
tho nxistencc of' 
Think,
f'rncdom at our 
Question,
L'.niversity. however 
Resist
it likt• other essen­
tial activist tactics 
(petitioning, forming an organization, 
postNing. club trips, etc.). is sharply 
compromised by the policies of thH 
University administration. 
I will attempt to dnrnonstrate that tlrn University. acting so as to prnsnrvo its control ol' campus (at thn <•xpcnse ol' stu­donts who wish we wern frcn). on bd1all' orconservative multimillion dollar donors and trustP<!S whose values tlrn administrators ofkn share, displays a dear bias against prngrnssiw dnmons­trations. Most of' lhn bias comes from Urn arbitrary naturn in whir.h it dt>!ines "dPrnemstration." 
I.et us imagine a dozPn students drnssed in similar fashion, jogging through campus. Not only am they chanting, but two of th11rn, hands-out­strntdrnd, stop traf'lic at tlw Main CirclP. Now, Int us imagine! a sm:ond group of four students without signs. amplilic:ation or any speakers, looking morn like ush­ers than activists, quietly passing out pi!\C:PS of' paper to people going into thn 
..!ACC. Which of thnse groups is demon­strating? 
Of coursc1 if you are an administrator tlwrn is a missing variabln. You cannot dncidn wlwth11r either of th11sn evcmts is a dmnonstration until you know thn intent of' thn group. For the acts of' progrnssivns arP dnmonstrations. whcn1as thosn of conservatives or rnoderat<!s am not. 
Thus tlw first activity by HOT( advo­cating valtws of leadership, discipline and militarism, is not a "demonstration." Tlw sm·ond 1went. progl"fissivcs passing 

out leaflets criticizing the Univnrsity's lack of action on sw11atshops is not only a "dmnonstration" but also caused thn Progressive Student Alliancn {I'S/\) to be put on probation. 
I hope it is clear to most rnadnrs what would happnn if progrnssivns wern lo march or jog around campus chanting pacifist, anti-swnatshop or othnr critical slogans (not to mention blocking traflir!). It would bn treatc\d as a dnmonstration and t!m artivisl<; could los,• tlrnir dub sta­tus. 
The administration requirns that dnmonstrations be rngistered so as to directly stop dnmonstralions. Tlwy h;iw prnventnd GLND/SMC. the Collngt' Democrats and the I'S/\ from holding protnsts. lndiroctly. the ruin disrnurages dPmonstrations by roquiring approval from Bill Kirk -a procnss that only sev­nrat students on campus haVI\ t!VPr used. 
I proposn that th!' i·equirrnnnnt for rPg­istration be eliminat.-d and that thn orga­nizt\l'S of any dmnonstration be lwld rnsponsiblci for Urn ewnt post-hoc. II' anyom\ was planning a sit-in or otlmr mildly disruptive protnst, limy \Vould bn smart and not try to register it in adwmcn -so thn rule is usolnss. 
or the 55 "demonstrations" that I haVP known in the past tlmm years (basPd on tlm Student Activitins definition which indudPs lealletting and otlrnr nwnts by progrnssivns but nxcludns any action by HOTC or sports fans), all haVP bnPn peaceful. ProtestPrs can policn ourselves. Of tlrnse dnmonstrations. 40 wnre unrng­isternd and only two ofthesn led to StudPnt Activitins taking action to punish tlw rulo-brnak11rs. 
So what is a dPmonstration'? Last snmDstnr during I.hi) l'rnsiclential Hewinv of thn HOH: wn wnro told to stand for llw anthnm and I instinctivnly sat-down. I was nxprnssing my prnfornncn for God bPforn country. but was I dPmonstrating? I of't1\n wcmr pofitical t-shirl.s to udvocat<' f'or causes and always woar sovnral polit­ical buttons on my backpar.k.. Is that a demonstration'' What if 10 poopln wnre to -;it-down or wnar a shirt or buttons'! 
Croups of' p<'opln arn allownd lo assPmbln on !'ampus lo advoratP main­stniam raus<'s lik<' viol,•nl sports lfi1otbal) fans). militarism IH0TO or traditional Catholicism -but if a c:oupl<' 1wopl" w11n' lo darn lo lt•alkt on a progrl'ssiv,· !'.ausP Wt' would lw sPnl to S<'t' tlw Ill'\\' l>irPdor of StuclPnt i\ctivitiPs. Mainstn•am activities an' lolPralPd, whil<' progrPssiw ar.tivitiPs arn lrnat<'d as dPmonstralions. Tlw UniVPrsity's biasml nnf'on·Pmf'nt supports t!w status quo. Ilownvnr as Christians Wt' an• r.allPd to act on lwhalf' of' tlH' poor. In an institu­tion with a Lhrnf' billion dollar 1111dow­11wnt that is gownwd by Cl·:O truslPPs and is r,wusPd 011 <'dlll'aling ;\nwrica's f'uturn corporal!' and military dill'. living th<' truth of tlH' Cos1wl llf'<'f'Ssitatns imnwclPrat<' al'lion and for this vou ran lw punislwd. · 
I violatt•d du l.ac. but it 1H•vnr 1TossPd tlw mind ol' my J'Pllow 11nrPgistPr1•d demonstrators that tlwy wnrn bt'f•aking a rulf' until I 111<'11tio1wd it. Tlwy f.-It in tlrnir !warts that tlwir aC'ls W<'rf' wrv p<',lCPf'ul and 111ad1• s1•nsl'. And tlw,v ·did. But unfill"lunatPly from PXp<'ri1•n1·1' I know that any group that bf'r.011H•s lt111 thrnalPning to thn administration rnn ))(' targPtml and unf'airly punislwd. It's ti111t• for studf'nts to stand-up. dPnHulCI f'l'f'<'­clom 011 c:ampus and rnwrilf' du I.al'. 
l'nrhaps as a start. if tlw rule• drn'S not 1·.hangn and HOTC: studnnts rnntinuf' to violatn du l.ar. with unrngistPrnd dnmons­trations (not Lo 11wntio11 all llw dorm prn· r.nssions lwfon• pc•p rallic\s! I. llwn ,,·c• should violatn tlw rulP too. TogPtl111 r wn'II creat1· a campus that wnll'onws all vinws. 
/)espite {winy rec<'nt(y al/(lcked hy (I squirrel 1rho knocked his ylass<'s f![T /\aron Kreider is sti/( a t'<'f!C/11. I/is rnf­umn runs <'l'<'f'Y other Mo11r/(ly. 
J'he 11ie11•s 1•.rpressed in this column an' those q{lhe author and 110/ 1w1·1•ssarify lhose r!f 'JIil' nhseruer. 
DILBERT 

E 
0 
u 
i 
@I 
1 ~ 
ll: E 
8 
t'. 
.8 
'O 
i 
....,. _...,,,____________ 

SCOTT ADAMS 
.; 

.!: I'M TRYING TO
THAT'S EXACTLY 

SHA.KE HANDS. IF
WHAT WE.'RE 

YOU FEEL HARASSED
LOOKING FOR I 


IN A.NY WAY JUST 
LET OUT A YELP. 
! 

.... ~---M,O--......;.,.-------­

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"My defi.nition ofa free society is a society where it is safe to he unpopular. " 
Adlai E. Stevenson former Governor of Illinois 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Friday, Seprcmber I, 2000 BSERVER page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Reflecting on 
• 
summer issues 

"I l<'V. '.'vlikP, how was your sumnwr?" 
"It stH'kPd. I had tlw summer l'rom lwll." 
Not tlw typical answor. I know. But my summer was absolutely horrihlP. 
lkspit.1• all of' tlw incidrmts. acdchmts and just plain old crappy things that happP1wd this sumnmr, tlwrn wrn·n two PVPnls that, although tragic. !wiped me to rePvalu­at1· my p!Hc1· in Llw ordl'r or things and my position 011 somP important isstrns facing tlH' world today. 
A littlr> m11rl' th1111 ;i month ago, my grandmotht>r passnd away. I!Pr cfoath. although suddmiing. was not altog1\tlwr shocking -sh1\ had bePn lighting slrok<'s l'or mon• than a year. Tlw peacd'ul manner in which slw 1:urn~ntly nists l:wliHs tlrn last l'ow W<'l'ks ol'lwr lil'I'. My l'arnilv anrt I had tn watch on an almost daily i)asis as lwr condition dnterio­rat<•cl. W1• had lo 'watch as sl11\ went from a vibrant and sonwtim1\S foistv woman to somconn d1•1J1•11d1•11t on oxygPn tub<!S 'to brl'atlm, who had to strugg'IP to sound out words. who 1wl'll1!d lo haw nwals n1okt>d for lwr. Not murh later. slrn \\'as unablr· Lo 1)('rl'orm basic human !'unctions without lwlµ. Slw n•quin!d 24-hour sup1!rvision. Ev11ntually. the only wa~· slw rnuld bn•atlw was through assistancP from an awkward­looking oxygPn machi111~. h1\r only movns coming from periodic mus­d<' spasms. 
hJur months ago. ii' you had pushed me for an opinion on euthana­sia. I might ham lwmmnd and hawncl. but I would ultimat1dy havfl sid1•cl against it. But as I sat next to my grandmother. I 1:ouldn't hnlp but l'l\/lSSl'SS my bdids. Lying nnxt lo me was a woman who had sur­viwd tlw (;n~at !kprnssion and watchPd hnr husband leave for and ronw back l'rum World \Var II. She had live childrnn, raised them right and had to livt' lhrough tlrn dnath of one f'rom a car accident. Slw livc-d lo S(•c and hokl gr<>al-~randchildnm. Sim was somuonH who had a1T11mplislwcl all slw i:ould oul of' lifo. 
/\nd I krwlt. nrncl<' llw sign of' tlw Cross on her gnal'lnd right hand and pray<'d to Cod that lwr lifo would nnd mnrcifully, painlnssly and quick!:,·. 
rim•" days lat<'r. it did. f'cl likP lo think thal God listnncd. /\t least l!P'd lwttPr haw -my grandmolhc\r was capabln of raising holy hell wlwn slw \\HlltPd to and is probably not afraid to givn God an narful. 
,\nollwr <•wnt Lhal rork1•d mn to Lim corn and dramatically altPrnd my ,rnrld\'iP\\ canw about thrPc weeks ago whc!n a friend of mine, whom I 'II just rail "Tom" rnv1ialPd that lw had gottm1 a girl. anollH\r l'riPncl ol' mi1w whom I'll just call "Nicol<•" pn•gnant. Both of them attPml a nationally rp1•ogniznd university that I'll nail (just to stick with tlw tlwmn). "Daysof'thundnr U." Tlrny strugglt~d for a fow weeks on tlwir situation. 
I'll admit that Lh<'n' am somP issuos -okay. most issues -when~ I can lw arrogant and pompous in describing my position. t\nd never do I f'ppf safl'I' on my soapbox than whim I pretPnliously pontificate about abortion. I'm willing to allow abortions in the case of rape and also ii' tlw girl is undt'l' 18 (with parnnts' permission). but the one thing I cannot stand is abortion !'or the sake of personal convenience. \Yhirh is pn•cisPly \Ylmt (•mind up happ1ming. Wlwn I had heard about it. I l'Pll numb. That was quickly rl'placNI by horrific nausea. T!w 1',l!'l that Tom r<'i'Prrecl to it as a "baby-axning" did litt!P to help. 
l'w thought mon• than a fow times about what would havo hap­1w1wd if NirolP t·.hang<'d lwr mind al llrn lasl rninuln. The fetus was <'ight WIH\ks old -with l'ully l'onrn\d intPrnal organs and a regular lwartlrnat. Would it lw a boy or a girl? Wn worn six weeks f'rom k1rnwing. I l'ast-f'orward a l'ew years and imagine myself being a l'ri(\llll lo lhis child. fl' it were a girl. I can imagirrn protesting, but 1w1•11tually r.aving in and coming to lwr tea party. If it were a boy. I'd s1wak him away f'rom his parrn1ts and u~ach him the lyrics to Notre llanw's fight song instl\cHI of'the one for Eycswidr1shut U. 
Sinc:1• tlw ... "procedure\" we've all made a sonwwhat tadt agrne­mnnl 1111l ti, clisl'llSS it, sort of' an "okay, it happ1mcd, timn to movn on" typn of thing. I'd likti to ask them about il, Bspncially Nicolo. but I'm sun• slw did not makl' lwr d1)cision lightly. The last thing I want lo d<1 is drcdg1~ up llll)lllOrics Lhal mighl very well bo exceedingly painful Plus. th<)rn·s anoth,)r mason; rm matter what I may belir.ve, c:an I look lwr in tlrn oy1\s and toll her that what she did was wrong'? No. 
So, that's why I had tlw s11mml'I' from hell. Ilop1)l'ully. my f'all will go al [Past a littln bcltcr. 
Mik,, /Harchaml is a senior Hngfish major who wants to thankfor­111,,r Nilumnisl MarlJ /Jeth hltis for helpinq him keep his :mnity, which ig a !:111/Jl'l'hwnan la!:!k. She didn't have lo hestom Ctny peCtrls ofwis­dom 011 c1 g<><if!l hlowhard like Mike. hul she did, and Mike i,'i ewrnal­ly yralt'.{ld 
'/11e 1:ieu•s ,•xpn•ssed in lhis column arc: lhose ofthe author and not t11•cessarily those of '/'he Observer. 


Students' pep doused 
t\t this moment we, two seniors, arc sitting in the cornpul(~r cluster at CCMB while thu pep rally rages on in the Joyce Center. As scmiors, Miclrnlle and I were looking forward lo spending our final season opening pep rally among our senior friends, as it is notori­ously the craziest and most entertaining P<'P rally of the year. 
llowr.vcr, apparently luck was not on our side, as we were promptly turned away at every gate we approached, despite our dis­play ol' our student !D's. We arrived 10 min­utes early. Evidently, we weren't early enough. 
OK. Enough is 9nough. Trying to get involved in this year's football season has bnen tho biggest headanhc since DART. Hight off lhe bat, the seniors living off campus were put through hours and hours of waiting in line to get our IottPry numbers (which, by thr~ way, counted for nil). Now students can't !)Ven gr:t into a pep rally to cheer their friends on the team, in the band, in the guard or on the cheerleading squad in support of their first big game weekend. At least something is being done about the positively ludicrous sys­tem of student ticket purchases by the stu­dent govPrnment. 
But holding the first pep rally in the JACC is simply a bad decision. For the past three years it's been held in the stadium; why the change in plans'? This decision kept not only off campus students from bning able to par­ticipate, but a signili!'ant number of on-cam­pus residents as well. Poor form, fellows, poor, poor form. 
As students of Notre Dame, regardless ol' whether or not we are all football fans, we arc privileged unough to be able to partic­ipate in a tradition of grandly extravagant proportions. For the most part. we love cvnry second of it. But I don't speak for myscll' · alone when I say that, as students, we of'ten feel unappreciated wlrnn it comes to the exe­cution of this pageant of sports. 
As much as the other fans matt0r, th0 f'oot­ball team is still ours. The members of the team. the band, the guard and the squad arc our roommates and friends. our classmates. the people we see and talk to on a daily basis. We don't attfmd events like pep rallies and games simply to enjoy them, even though we rnrtainly do. We also go to support our friends here at Notre Dame who go to all the effort to pull off the tradition that makes us the most well-known university to be associ­ated with college football. Thereforn, please, let us in! 
Jacquelyn Posek Michelle Rubner 
Seniors 
off~campus September I, 2000 


As a recent graduate visiting campus for the A&M game I had the opportunity to read tho Friday, Sept. 1. edition of The Observer. 
I would like to t.akfl a minute to respond to Doug Pardon's lettm rngarding 'The Shirt." I understand that some people have expressed concerns about some issues related to this year's edition of this tradition. As with any­thing else, the Shirt Project is not immune to differing opinions. With this in mind, it is cru­cial to recognize the importance of this pro­ject on many levels, some of which are not often fully publicized. The charity portion of the project is an essential part of the Notre Dame Community. 
As a student, in September 1998, I had brain surgery which knocked me out of school for a semestor and brought up huge medical costs to deal with. The support and love of the Notrn Dame community was thert1 lo push me along on the path to rehabilitation and recovery. Also there to help me was the generosity of the student bodv with its chari­table gifts to help with my m~dical bills. That was a saving grace in llrn process and one for which I will be forever grateful. So. I say a belated heartfelt thank you to Notre Dame and the Shirt Project for its help lo me. That isn't my purposfl however. 
Phmso overlook small problems that might arise in the organization of the Project and lend your full support to this ,~!fort. I am for­ever grateful for its help and my personal donations to Notre Dame throughout the coming years will always be mad1! to tho Shirt Project. I hopn that the project always nxists lo hnlp students in their times of' grnatest need. 
Brent Moberg Class of·oo September .~. 2000 




••!' -!r' -:''''"'P'"~'•, __"f''.t ,frc:'.:1''','~\.,:·l!'.'?:$\C\t~::_:)~~,-=:tt··Ccr,:t, 
; j 4 ••'-' , .... :..;..·,~ ..... ·.:.::-.:,ti(\#f~:.···,t·:
711I~i1'lI'i'Irrr 
.e L 

Monday, September 4, 2000 
D.C. more than ju 
The nations capital is much mo.. Within the "Beltway" lies a city 
Tlwy·re sold as pop-up guides and nology at the Smithsonian Museums. "how-to" diaries, but visitors' maps to within the public's roach and cost not! Washington, D.C., don't truly capturn to apprnciatc. History lovnrs slrnuld 5; 
everything that makes the city great. A to the Museum of' /\nwrican llistorv fruitful journoy through tho city should the Holocaust Museum, while art JI include more than just a stop at the White should visit thn National Gallnrv of House and a fow Lincoln Mmnorial photo which holds original piecns by Morn:t 
tlrn country's only Leonardo da Vind. ,
ops. Notrn Dame Suprnnrn Court sf'ssions ca I 
and Saint 
a groat way to see behind• Mary's stu­Although the city is a smrrns Inga! action. The hig d<mts spend court _in tlw land dr.als with I
mecca for political 
semesters in ous 1ssu1.is nvery day. Washington movers and shakers, ber:ausP it's not a Big Tob I (known as tlrn there's more to D.C life argumont donsn't mean it's 
important. Class and group , ,.
"Beltway"l than who's up .for 
1
and learn as an• available to chock oul 
much about re-election. men and women who rule its sigh ts and gavol. sounds as they 
Some of' tlrn b<'st journalis , do about tail-thP world comr.s ouL I gating and the Victory Marrh. Here, stu­Washington, wh(~ro evnryonn's got sr. dents share their tips on a larger campus, thing to say and, guaranti~cd, they sal 
th(1 hub of' tlrn Unit,~d States. Tlw Washington Post and Tlw Timr.sl Sum, tlwre arc tlw politicians and the popular, but f'or great information Congrnssional mer1tings -and, of' rnm·s<', what's going 011 in tlw city, Tim ( 
the interns -but the city is most enjoy­PapPr is a must. lntnresting stories 0111_' able at times whnn no tourists am in city and tips on what to do around ti sight. nrnk<> it an amazing rnsourcP for visi 
The monuments am beautif'ul -sLrik­and rnsidPnts alike. ing symbols of' a rich political and social Unf'ortunatcdy, somP of history; buL tlrny're bnst when visitnd al tlw lrnst placns 1,;1 nat, drink For night. Seeing the Washington Monument or Pven read never make it 
hun 
'and Lincoln and .Jdforson Memorials are into lit-in-all-in-onP-w1wk­; a must. and a plus when thny'rn lit. Littlri t>nd br1sl sellers. Popular city 'compares to standing at one end of lhP restaurants, for nxamph•, · Mall (a grassy expanse that runs from tlw can bP vnry ov11rpricnd and 1 Capitol. past the Smithsonian r-.1ust\ums crowdPd. Grnat food and 'and is horn!' to thP Washington atmosplrnni ar<' found in 
Monument and Lincoln MPmoriall and nianv small, ethnic rostau­seeing tlw outlil)(~ of' tlw city's grnatPst rants p<1ppPrnd throughout tlw rity's , architc('.tural symbols it up against tlw nic neighborhoods. ThPy rnn lw hard<' night sky. find, but lPss touristy stops along 
Probably LhP greatest aspect of' Mntro, tlw city's popular subway sys~ Washington is that most of tho city is f'n\<' can rnward Urn tastnbuds with mw-o cnjoym1·1nt. Years of art, history and t<'eh-kind cuisitrns. 
The Linrnln Memorial (top left) has long hc1~11 a site for political action and dcbato. It sits al llw foot of the Heflflcting Pool at thn opposit<' end of' th11 Washington Monument. This and S(WPral other tourist attractions are found on stops along tho city's Metro train {middle loft). Washington is homr. Lo thousands of visitors every day, many who long to scr. the Capitol Building (bottom left), and Washington l\.1onument (top, opposite pagr.). twn oftlrn most rncognized buildings in thn city. 
text by 
. 
CHRISTINE KRALY 
and 

COLLEEN MCCARTHY 
photos by 
. 
MARYCALASH 


NSIDER 
O
THE 

Monday, September 4, 2000 BSERVER Notre Dame vs. Texas A&M 

By TIM CASEY 
Assistant Sports Edi rur 
His shoulders straightened, elbows tucked, op<-m palms pointed towards the royal blue sky and arms flung above his head. 
Bob Davie "raised the roof." 

On a warm, humid afternoon, Davie's postgame signal to the student section may have been the most recognizable ges­ture for the Irish since Bobby Brown's "excr.ssive celebration" taunt last vear against Michigan. · 
But the uncharacteristic gesture was far from the only highlight of Notre Dame's 24-10 victory over then-No. 25 Texas A&M. 
For quarterbar.k Arnaz Battle, his mem­orable wnekPml began with a phone call l'rom Jarious Jackson, the starter for the past two ynars. Jackson had one simple nrnssage !'or the junior from Shreveport, La. 
'"lfo said 'just go out there and ball'," Battle said. 
Battin hncdnd his predecessor's ad,·ice, complHting 10-of-16 passes for 133 yards and two touchdowns. He also ran for 50 yards on 12 carries. 
Maybr. evfln morn imprnssivr. than indi­vidual statistics. the Battle-led offense committed 110 turnovers. 
/\ml. insl(\ad of listening to Lil' Troy'!­"Wanna bP a baller". Battle and lhe rcsl 
D1avie breaks 4-game losing streak with win over old friend 
of his Irish teammates sang a sweeter tune in the locker room after the win. 
Th,-, Victorv March. 
"I had to ·pass out a sheet before the gamo," Davie said. "It's been a long time since we sang that song." 
The last time the Irish sang the custom­ary verses, reserved only for victories, was following a 28-24 defeat of Navy on Oct. 30. 
Yet, on Saturday, the Irish looked like a different team than the squad that lost all four November games last season. 
Whether it was because of its health, maturity or lesser quality opponent, Notre Dame revived some confidence in a pro­gram beset by constant criticism the past fow vears. 
·T·m sick of hearing all of that [criti­cism!," Battle said. "I want to bring back Notre Dame to where it's supposed lo be." 
Thr Trish relived some mrmories of the past early on, throwing on only two of their first 18 offensive plays. For the game, Notre Dame gained 216 yards on the ground and ran the ball on over three­quarters {49 of65) of their plays. 
The tailback-by-committee of Tony Fisher. Julius Jones and Terrance Howard gave the Irish relief in the high tempera­tures. 

Jones, who missed several practices last week because of a hamstring injury, led the team with 60 yards rushing on 14 car­ries. 
Fisher, the game's starter, and Howard, who was also coming off a slight ham­string injury, gained 31 yards a piece. 
"I think vou will continue to see us do that [the rotation)," Davie said. "I feel comfortable with all three of them. That was evidenced by the fact that Terrance Hmvard was in there late in the football game when you are obviously co·ncerned about protecting the football." 
Davie also plans to utilize the same aggressive defensive schemes. The defense was the biggest surprise in the Irish's fifth-straight season-opening victo­rv. 
"The defensive unit yielded 255 total yards to the Aggies, including only 90 on the ground. Aggie quarterback Mark Farris completed 16-of-28 passes for 1()5 yards but was sacked twir,e and lost 15 yards rushing in his starting debut. 
"There's no question Bob Davie is an excellent defensive coach," Texas A&M head coach R.C. Slocum said. "And so are [defensive coordinator] Greg Mattison and [linebackers coach] Kirk Doll. l think they'll have a good defense." 
Though still premature to forecast their future success, the first series of the sec­ond half may have set the tone for an improved defense. 
After a 7-7 halftime tie, the Aggies marched down to the Notre Dame 2-yard line. 
Three plays, one timeout and a penalty later, Texas A&M had to settle for a 23­yard field goal by Terence Kitchens. 
The Irish took advantage of the stand. With 3:24 remaining in the third quarter, Battle found Javin Hunter along the right sideline for a 46-yard touchdown in the north end zone. 
Hunter's first career touchdown gave the Irish their first lead of the afternoon at 14-10. 
"When I was running with him, I thought I was pushing him, then I let off a little bit," said Jay Brooks. who was cover­ing Hunter. "'When I turned around I didn't see tho ball. I let my team down." 
The Trish l'lxtendr.d the lead early in the fourth. After David Givens rushed for seven yards on a crucial fourth-and-one, Jones ran through the Aggie defense, broke three tackles and scored from 17 ­yards out with 11 :38 left. 
On its next possession, Notre Dame scored again, this time on a 32-yard field goal by Nick Setta. 


player of the game  quote of the game  stat of the game  
Arnaz Battle  "We were close, but as our  0 turnovers  
The junior quarterback threw  coach always says. close is  The Irish offense took care of  
for two touchdowns, rushed for  only good in horse shoes and  the ball well.  Last season the  
50 yards and threw for 133 in  hand grenades. "  Irish turned the ball over  
his first start for the Irish.  Chris Valeta  at least once in every  
Aggie offensive lineman  game but two.  

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 4, 2000 
report card 

A-
quarterbacks: !Jaltle started offslou•. iml got morf' com.fnrlablc' in the SPC­ond half. /Jis running lt'as outstand­ing. and hi.'i passing hetter than 1•:rpertedfor n first rarc•,,r start. 
A-
running backs: Wilh threP solid tail­backs in .lonc•s. Fisher and l!orrnrd, this may lw Notr<' /Jmne':, deepest 
positio11. 
receivers: Jlunler ·s touchdown cat,:h

B+alon,q the sidf'linr• _qru•p thf' Irish their _first lead. Wil h no _qo-to recei1wr, the lri.<:h spread the 11•er1.lth among the o}Jn1:·w 
8-
offensive line: !Jail le u•a:; sacked lu•ice. but pres.,;ured througlwU/. the game. The extra year ofc•xperience 
B+ B C A­B+ 
Irish. bur flwy'llface a nwch trmglwr lest next ll'eek u•ith

3.19 
the No. 1 'l!uskers. 
adding up the numbers 
number of Noire Dame turnovers 
0 
nu rnber of fans in attendance,
80,232 
the largest ever 
number of season-opening 
5 
wins in a row 
46 
yards on Arnaz Battle ·s touch­down pass to Javin Hunter, the 
longest pass of his career 
number of Notre Dame wins 
1 
since Ocl. 28 
10 
points scored by Texas A&M, fewest by aNotre Dame 
opponent since 1998 
number of degrees on the 
108 
field at game-lime 
19 
yards returned on Tony Driver's interception 
1/'{lSfl ·1 e11frie111 in Saturday's ,qame. 
defensive line: lield th£' Agqies to 90 ,11ards rushing and onfy 2.4 yard.c; per carry. mr1 lack/es by Irons and Smit on /\&M's first driiw f!f the third quarter turned the moml'ritum. 
linebackers: Nnt much dc•pth. hut the three starters put up hig numbl'rs on ta1·klc.~. Hoimw1. !J1•11man and l/c1rri.'wn r1n• ('Xplm:il'r' (Ind talented. 
defensive backs: J".[Jt'r.wm needs to impro1•1• -and.fast. Thn•e pass h1/er.(ere11ce calls is ll'G!f too many. /Jrir•<•r's ll'am-high 10 tackles and interceptiun u•ere their sw•ing yrace. 
special teams: 1/ildhotd punted tN•ll. Set/a hit his first career.field goal and A!cNeu, kicked into the end zone three out of.fi11e times. 
coaching: Gutsy call to _qo for it on fourth and one. CrmJidencP came throu_qh in the rails as rlll' game 
u•orc' on. The d,fens,· played more 
overall: Good start for /he 
INSIGHT 


Irish corner back Brock Williams (1) and free safety Tony Driver (25) take down Aggie running back Joe Weber at the goal line, preventing a touchdown and forcing Texas A&M to settle for a field goal. 
Gutsy Irish wear hearts on sleeves in opener 
Going for it on fourth-and-one to set up a 17-yard Julius Jones touch­down. 
Keeping A&M out of the end zone after a first-and-goal on the 2-yard line. 
Tonv Driver ripping off Aggies' quarter­back Mark Farris's pass for a 19-yard inter­ception return. 
Upsetting the nation's No. 23 

team 24-10 in Kathleen the season open-O'Brien er. 
That's the stuff 
Associate
Notre Dame foot­
Sports Editor 
ball is made of. Il's made up of gutsy calls, big plays and athletes who leave their heart on the field. And it's been miss­ing in South Bend more often than not in recent years. 
During the slow and tentative first half Saturday, it appeared this year's Fighting Irish would be a repeat of the last few disappointing teams. 
"At the beginning of the game, a lot of players had the jitters," Driver said. "They were still thinking about last year. But we got out there, we made a couple of stops. and we said. 'We can do this.' After that, the confi­dence just took over." 
At halftime, new quart()rback Arnaz Battle looknd like he would be a good quarterback sometime down the road. but wasn't quitn there yet. The defonse had held the Aggies to seven points, but had also given up several big plays on third downs. The Irish were tied. but due more to luck and so-so play than aggressive calls and spectacular shows of talent. 
After halftime, though. a differnnl Notre Dame team ran out of the tun­nel. Out chargl'd an Irish team that was fired up and emotional. Onto the field rushed a group of Irish players that dominated a lackluster Aggies' opponent. 

"I was impressed with how the Ll'am handlrd the momentum swings," Irish head coach Bob Davie said. "To come back and tie the game at the half and then to have the sta­mina to stay in it throughout impressed me." 
Early in the second half. the Aggies drove nearly all the way downficld. While Irish fans braced themselves to fall behind by a disheartening seven points. the Irish defense transformed itself into an iron wall that no Aggie player could penetrate. Grant Irons and Rocky Boiman tackled A&M's Joe Weber for a three-yard loss, then the defense held Weber to a one-yard gain. Ja'Mar Toombs couldn't muster enough firepower to get past Boiman and B..J. Scott on the third down. and following a false start penalty. the Aggies were forced to go for the field goal. 
"When you drive the ball 90 yards and have first and goal inside the 10 and you don't score, it is a moral vic­tory for the defense," Texas A&M offensive lineman Chris Valela said. 
Although the Aggies took the lead, the defensive stop kept the energy in Notre Dame's favor. 
"It seemed that we got stronger as the game went on," Driver said. "The ddensc was ifly until wn got into a rhythm at the end. and that's when our conditioning paid off." 
Batlle proved a quick study at quarterback. After going 6-for-11 passing in the first half, he sharpened to 4-for-5 in the second half. And he helped the Irish convPrt on a third down for the first time in the game. 
"This game showed that Battle is explosive and a great player," Davie said. "If you look at Jarious's !Jackson! first game against Michigan two years ago, Arnaz is further along than Jarious was at that time. llc's more in control and confident." 
Behind Battle's lead, the Irish sbownd a little of the bravado Notre Dame football has been missing. In l 99(), the ND coaching staff took a timid approach, hesitating to go for it on a fourth down. Maybe it was becausP they krn\w tlrn J<J<J<J Irish couldn't guarantc<' cvnn a one-foot gain. Davie dmnonstratcd mom confi­dence Saturday, lr~aving his olfo11sc in to test their grit. 
"We wanted to put tlw game away." flanker .Joey (;ntherall said. "We w1m! driving. and I don't think anybody wanted to kick tho ball right there. We wanted to show that we wcrn ready to put some points on tlrn board. Coach showed a lot of confi­dence that our olfons<i can make a first down.'' 
On fourth-and-one, David Givens burst through for a six-yard gain and a first down. Jones, a dynamic young tailback. picked up whnre Givens left off. He escaped the grasp of A&M defenders and dashed 17 yards into the end zone to boost his t,~am to a 21-10 advantage. 
Once Notre Dame had the victory all but sewn up, Driver decided. for excitement's sake, to put some pizazz in the win. The senior frne safety capped off a much-improved day for the ND defense by intercepting Texas A&M's last chance at a touchdown. 
Almost more remarkable in tlw win, however, was what tlw Irish didn't do. 
The Irish didn't turn tho ball ovor, a foal only accomplished lwicn last year. They .didn't miss a lield goal or a PAT. errors that hav1\ lrncn rncm1t hallmarks of ND football. And they didn't allow morn than 10 points or 100 yards rushing hy tlwir opporwnt. 
With the victory came a huge momentum swing. If Notrn Dam,i had started its season (). J with a sixth straight loss. pnopln would havn all but written oIT tlw 2000 Irish squad. But with a win. sonrnhow everything is different. 
"We'rn fo1\ling confid1\nl right now and just getting sonrn rnonwntum going," Rattle said. 
Notrn Dame is und,~foatnd -opnn­ing a season in which anything is still possible. Even beating N1·hraska. 
The opinions expressed in this cof­wnn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those qfTlw 0hser/Jer. 
Monday, September 4, 2000 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Defense scores points with solid performance 
By KERRY SMITH Spons Ednor 
Irish head ('.oach Bob Davie and his sta ff s pc n l tlrn off-season rntooling Notre Damr's d1:fonsc, hoping to breath!: lifr back int.o a iinP lhat struggled last season. 
After Davie called the p1,rfor­ma11c,, of' the defense his number onP ('Ollf:Prn last week. questions of Irish drfensiv!: ability hovered ovnr Notr,i Damo Stadium Saturday in Notre DamP•s snason oµe1wr against Texas A&M. 
With NotrP DamP's convincing 24-10 victory over the then-No. 25 AggiE• squal, Davi(\ found some of nw answprs. 
Sonw lw liked. And sonw !in did not. 
"It wasn't a mastPrpirrn by any strPtch of thr imagination," said tlw fourth-v1-\ar head roach. "I don"t know tliat we~ played particu­larly wPll, but the thing that is rPally encouraging to m<' is that WP pla_vpd wilh a lot of !mart and I think lllf' foundation for good foot­bull warns an1 built on that." 
Tlw Irish dl'frllsf1 was iu no way pnlislwd. f'.a using th rPP pass-in LPr­l'Pn'llCI' prnaltirs and missing kry tark!Ps during Texas AKi:vl scoring driVl's. but tlw heart Davir was looking for shi1wd through. 
V\'ith tlw ganH' tiPd 7-7 in thP t h i r cl q u a r t P r ·. No t r P I) a m P · s ddt'l1SP pullPd out all tlw stops. Al"tPr T1,xas A&M quartPrbark 1\1ark Farris IPd th1· AggiPs down l'il'lcl on a 74-vard drivl' for tlw Pnd zone, tlw Ji·ish lwld thrm back on thP goal linr for thrPP downs. Tiu• .-\ggiPs had to s<>ltlf' f'or a fiPld goal aftPr twing called for illngal pron'durl' on fourth and goal. 
··v\'p 1-vprr dose. but as our coach ahvays says closP is on!~· good in horsl' shtlPS and hand grenades," said AggiP of'fonsivP linPman Chris Valr,ta. "\\'p didn't get it do111'. 
\\"lwn you havP first and goal insidP tlw 10 and you don't scorn ii is a moral victory f'or llH' dP!'1•11sP. Fortunat!\ly we· got a field goal out of it but that's not 
('l10llgh." 
That goal line stand giv1~s DaviP a Iittl l' more confid c nee on tlw otlrnr sid<' of tlw ball. 
..The thing I was impressed with was tlrn momt'ntum swings and the rnsilif1ncy to bounce back ... and being able to have somewhat 
of a goal line stand to hold them to a field goal," said Davie. "The defense is, let's be honest, not a tremendously confident def'cnse but they came through." 
The Irish defense did come through. holding the Aggies to just 10 points. while allowing only 90 rushing and 165 passing yards ­a marked improvement ovflr last season when tbe defense viclded an average of 27.6 poin'ts and 
383.7 yards a game. But Davie is far from convinced. "I thought we were average," 
said Davie. "I thought early in the game we were a little out of sync. I don't think Wf) played nParly as good as we are capable of on defonst•. We nefld to play a lot bet­ter than that. It was a good effort. I thought we played with enthusi­asm and hung in there but it was sloppy." 
The thrcP-pass interference calls against the Irish Saturday concern Davie. 
"We still havP-some huge ques­tion marks," said Davie. "Can we covr.r on dei'r.nse? We had those pass intcrferrnce penalties that I thought wore irn~xcusable." 
Irish strong safety Hon Israel was flagged for the first pass iutl'rfon•ncc penalty in the second quarter, before Clifford Jefferson committed two penalties vvithin fivP minutes in thP third. 
Tlw ddPnse sufferPd in the third quarter when senior captain Grant Irons left the game because of dehydration. 
"With the heat the wav it was we krww it would be a g~t-check at thn end," said Davie. "It was a bat­tle and a lot of guys had to step up and be ready to play, but Grant is going to be fine now.'' 
After rnceiving intravenous flu­ids, the senior defensive end returned in the fourth quarter to finish out the game. 
Witb No. 1 Nebraska coming to tuwn next weekend. Davie knows ttw defense has a lot of kinks to work out before nflxt weekend. 
"We~ realize we have a long, long, long way to go as a football tnam in a very short amount of timP," said Davie. "The football team coming here next week is as good a tr.am as I've seen in a long time." 
But Saturday"s win is one more step on the path to becoming a potent defensive threat. 


team record points Notre Dame 0 7 3 D 10 1 Nebraska 1·0 1,736 TexasA&M 0 7 7 10 24 2 Florida State 1-0 1,725 
team statistics ND TAMU
3 Michigan 1·0 1,513 
first downs
4 Miami {Fla.) 1·0 1,493 21 17 
rushes-yards
5 Wisconsin 1·0 1.391 49-194 37-90 6 Texas 0-0 1,345 passin,q-yards 133 165 7 Kansas Stale 2-0 1,334 comp-alt-int 10-16-0 16-28·1 8 Florida 1·0 1,263 return yards 59 28 9 Georgia 1-0 1,245 
punts-yards 6-266 8-337 

10 Virginia Tech 1-0 1,119 
fumbles-lost 0-0 0-0

11 Southern California 1-0 964 
penalties-yards 5-59 5-45

12 Tenne$see 1-0 901 
lime ofpossession 29:56 30:04

13 Alabama 0-1 824 14 Purdue 1,0 805 individual statistics 15 Washington 1·0 773 passing 16 UCLA 1-0 766 
/1.'D -Ballle 10-16·0 TAMU -Farris 16-28-1 

17 Clemson 1-0 612 
rushing

18 Ohio State 1·0 591 
ND -Jones 14-60, Battle 12-50, Fisher 10-30, Howard 7-29,

19 Mississippi 1-0 528 Givens 4-16, Lopienski 2-9
20 Oklahoma 1-0 487 TAMU -Whitaker 13-71, Weber 9-23, Toombs 9-12, Goynes 2­
21 Illinois 1·0 398 
6, Farris 4-(-15)

22 Te.-as Christian 0-0 354 23 Notre Dame 1-0 166 receil!ing 24 Michigan Stale 0-0 150 ND -Hunter 2-50, Lopienski 2-34, Holloway 2-15, Givens 1·21, 25 Southern Mississippi 0-1 125 Getherall 1-9, O'Leary 1·5, Black 1-(-1) 
TAMU -Ferguson 5-79, Taylor 4-35, Whitaker 3·25, Johnson 2-16, Toombs·1·6, Goynes 1-4

other teams recetving votes: Colorado State 121, East Carolina 92, Oregon 71, Mississippi Slate .Tackles 41, Toledo 25, Auburn 24, Marshall 23, LSU 13. 
ND -Driver 10, Boiman 9, Denman 8, Weaver 6 TAMU -Anthony 10, Glenn 9, Kiel 7, Bradley 6, Bautovich 6 

scoring summary & stats
AP poll ESPN/USA Today poll 
scoring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total ! scoring 
, 

summary team record points 1st 
·Nebraska 1-0 1,456 No score. Florida State 1-0 1,422 
Midifvan NI 1,303 
Mia111l{Fla,} 1·0 1,205 2nd Florida 1-0 1,175 TAMU -12:54 Wist1ms1n 1-0 1,131 
Whitaker 8-yd. run Kansas State 2•0 1,037Kitchens kick, 7-0 
0-0 1,036

ND-1:31 
Getherall 9-yd. 1°0 1,022 pass from Baltle 1•0 901 Sella kick, H 

1•0 · 822 

,~o 746 3rd '1•0 719 TAMU • 7:25 Qif• 668 
FG Kitchens ·· l.0 631 
23 yd., 10-7 
1~0 627


ND -3:24 Hunter 46•yd. .J~O 491 pass from Battle 1-0 458 Sella kick, 14·1D 
" '19' • Clfltn$Oll . 1-0 425 ,, <::Iir{ 'l))dahoma 1-0 .355 , 21 ,U!inQICI 1•0 327 7 .22 Texa11Chdst1an O·O 234
4th 
23 Mithlgan Slate o-o 232
ND -11:38 
Jone• 17-yd. run · 24 Souther,rMlsslssippl 0·1 117 Sella kick, 21-10 !5 Notre Oa!lle 1-0 115 
ND -7:17 
FG Setta 32 yd., ?4-10 ;/JJIJ_er; te(Lft'JS recetcing votes.-Colorado State x~4; M~lsstppi Slate 68, East Caronna 59, Marshall -148,Al'l(ansas39;,Georgla tech 37, Minnesota 37. 
O
THE 

Notre Dame vs. Texas A&M BSERVER Monday, September 4, 2000 


Irish defensive tackle Anthony Weaver pulls down Texas A&M running back Richard Whitaker. Whitaker ran for 71 yards on 13 carries, while the Irish defense held the Aggies to just 90 yards rushing. 
Battling Back 
Notre Dame ended a four-game losing streak and put a dismal 5-7 1999 season behind them with a convincing win over Texas A&M. Saturday's match-up got personal for Bob Davie -the fourth-year Irish head coach spent nine years in College Station with the Aggies before coming to Notre Damr. The win boosted the Irish into national rankings at the No. 23 spot in the Associated 
Press Poll. First-time starter Arnaz Battle put on a solid performance, leading the Irish to a 24-10 win. 
. 
photos by 

PETER RICHARDSON 


Monday, September 4, 2000 page 11 
t a monumental weekend 
e than just big buildings and big debates. ich with food, music and ... bad driving. 
trC Although tho dty is a mC'cca for political ng movers and shakers, there's more to D.C:. ick lifn than who's up for HH~lcction. JaZ7 nd and blues bands thrive in the city and ns most can be found in small, intimate bars rt, and lounges. Adams Morgan and Dupont nd Circle put the hungry music-lover at case 
with several rnstaurants and musir. bP venues to choose from. {l-Dupont Circle is also homr to ist Kramrrbooks, a bookstore and a cafe ri­that's usually crawling with single people st and is said to have sparked numerous co relationships. After finding lo\'e in the ot stacks. couples can find cofTee and choco­its late at Xando, a coffoe bar where cus­
tomers make s'mores right at the table. 
D.C. is home lo hundreds of special 
events. stemming from political rallies to in annual marches. The Cherry Blossom of Festival. for instance, takes the less politi­f-~­cal and more aesthetic route when tlrn it. white cherry blossoms bloom in the re springtime. The blooms line the Tidal 
on Basin surrounding the Jefferson memori­
~ity al and visitors can paddleboat around the the monument. wn For the camera-crazed, hundn~ds of' ors spots in the city make for postcard-like 
moments. But those who make he camera-crazed, the trek to the top of' the National
reds ofspots in the 
Cathedral can gel

ake for postcard­an amazing view likc> moments. not seen by most just hitting the usual hot spots. Whether making it action-packf'd or th-rolaxing and educational, the city has to endless possibilities. t\nd .vith enough tlw patriotic gusto and sky-kissing buildings. !Ill, Washington should bavn every visitor ·-a-singing "America the lfoautiful." 
Things to kno,v before 
making the patriotic trek: 
. 
The Metro is the wav to go. Generallv cleaner and faster than a cab ride, the Metro is "the most popular mode of transportation in the city. When staying for more than a day or two, it's best to buy a multi-ride pass. It'll save money and make it easy to just swipr the card and hit all the best stops. 

. 
Shopping can be expensive. The streets of Georgetown are lined with shops and restaurants, and convenience costs. Plctces like Pentagon City and nearby Bethesda can also be pricey, so it's important to be a smart souvenir-shopper. D.C. memorabilia shops are a dime a dozen. so it's best to shop around for that perfect presidential T­shirt. 

. 
Cars should be left at home. Driving in the city can be very trying for people not accustomed to the traffic circles. It's best to ride the Metro, or a bus when in Georgetcwn, since the Metro doesn't run there. 

. 
Skateboards are everywhere. They went out with the earlv 90s, but somehow the city of the red, white and blue hasn't caught on. One should be prepared to catch the four-wheeled transporta­tion along with bicycles and rollerblades, especial­ly in the city's nicest parks. 

. 
The city has great parks. A hidden treasure is Rock Creek Park, which is a haven for runners, walkers, rollerbladers and bicyclists with its large paved road closed off to traffic. The road follows the creek and is especially gorgeous in fall when the foliage change colors. 

. 
Maryland driving can be scary. The traffic circles can be difficult enough, but it's even worse when few drivers know bow to yield or merge. Just never forget the "look both ways" adage, and survival is guaranteed. 

. 
Everyone reads. Yourg or old. business man or garbage man, The Washington Post is usually a common thread among the people in the city. It's the one accessory generally worn by everyone rid­ing the Metro. 





page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 4, 2000 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
White Sox come from behind twice in 13-12 victory 
12) and hit n two-run shot in tlw from Hir:k Whitn {5-8) ovPr tlrn 11. fi<'lder would l'Pttrrn from a 
Assol'i,11rd l'rrss 
eighth l'or his first rnr1•cr multi­right f'irld wall for his :-rnth Abbott. who allowed night shouldPr injury until tlw All-Star honw r ganw. Mrluskl'y has honwr. runs in seven innings against tlw hr,~ak
Cl IIC;\(;O threw homers in th1~ last two White was in his fourth inning Now Yi>rk Yank1'.0S on Monday. Loflon dislornl1\d his lcl't shoul­

Frank Thnmas hit his 40th gam11s. of rnlid. had no trouble with the mwmir dnr sliding headfirst into first
l1011wr alld drnvP in four runs as 
MillPr 14-5) gavn up two r-uns. Malt Morris 1:1-3) allowPd two Hnd Sox. who managPd Just basn during Lim Al. playoffs
t.h!' Chicago \Vhitn Sox nePd1\d to ninl' hits and thr~c walks in hits in two innings and got the three hits in a 4-1 loss on against Boston last y1\ar and hadrally in llw righth inning d<'spitP SPV<'n innings. II!~ stru!'k out win lit: got Mike Piazza to Saturday. surgery in tlw otl'.<,cason.
s!'oring 11iuP runs in tlw lirsl to SIW('O. grnund into an inning-Hnding Torno Ohka (3-3), who had Ile rnturrwd for 01wning cl.Ly~
win llwir lil'th straight ganw. I:~­
Ashby 18-121. who lost his doubhi play al'tPr singles by Mike won three consncutiv11 dPcisions, a rn1'.11Vt'l"V t·onsid<'n'cl a nwdit'al
12 owr tlw Anaheim Angels on 
fourth sltaight df'dsion. 1{/lVf! up Bordirk and Edgardo Alfonzo in allowml two runs on six hits and miracl<' bv thl' Indians -butSundav. 
!iv!' nrns and right hiL-; in 3 2-3 the 10th. and rctirrd thr. side .in !'our walks in six innings. But th«~ hasn't b,,,.;1 l'f'Pling hims1·ll' until
Chil:ago It'd 9-4 at'tPr 0111' 
innings. lie did nol walk or ordor in thn 11t.h. Brd Sox, who arn 12th in Orn AL latdy. Sint'.I' Aug. 8, lw's go111·b1•f'orl' cornin!,{ bark f"rom a 12· strikP-out a battrr. Ashbv lrf't his Cardinals manager Tony La in runs and batting avrragn. :~8-of'-102.
I l dc>l'iril in tlw Pighth 
last start Tunsdav aht>r six Hussa triPd Lo 11nesso the ninth couldn't hit Abbott. "Tlw should,•r's a big part of -Shigdoshi llas<\gawa 18-5). 
innings against thn hf'ds with a with a two-run lcitd. using-three Javier doublrd with 01w out. in it." l.of'ton said. 'Tm li~<'ling a lit­Carlos LP<' doubllid with 11nr out blood blistPr on the middle\ lin­pitchrrs. but Hubba Trarnmdl the firsl. Hodrigtwz walkrd and. tlt\ bit mor<\ rnnlid1•11t with myand s1·.orPd on 11 PrhPrt f>Prry's gnr of his pitching hand. foiled thn strategy with a two­orw out later. John Okrud dou­arm. It dm•s1t'l hurt as murh astripl1· lo tiP tlw ganw. l'aul ILi. Surhoff lf'd off thf' sm·.ond out. two-run hom!'r to tie it 3-3. blPd to scorn tlrnm both. S<•attlP it. usnd to...
KonPrko hit a sacrilfrP fly Lo 
inning l'or Atlanta with a trip!<' TrammPll. who also drove in addPd one run off Hod BP1'k in Lol'ton singl<'cl and stoic S<'rnnd
right to go alwacl 13-12. 
11nd srornd on .lavy Lopez's thn Mets' first run in Lhn lilth. hit the sevr.nth when Mel ,cmorc hit bas1\ th1• f'irst thr<'<' tim!'s Ill'llm,1•gawa. who couldn't hold groundnut for a 1-0 lead. Keith a 2-1 pitch from Davi' VP.res over a lradol'f doubln and sc·orPd on canw Lo bat and wound up scor­an 8-5 IPad Fridav. b!Pw his src­Lorkharl"s HBI singln in tht' tlrn wall in left crnter /'or his Javier's doublP. ing l\ach tinw. IIP ti!•d a dubond savr in tlw s/ri1•s. llasPgawa 
fourth made it 2-0. third homl'r sincn joining Nrw Abbott was draf'tPd bv rPr.ord for sto!Pn basl's in a
Pnll'r<'d I.he s11ri1•s having givtm MPluskey's first honwr startPd York from Tampa Bay. Minnesota in 198:i and dl'but1\~l ganw sd twi1·p by i\lf'X Colt• on up Just ont' 1·arr,ed run in his a /'ivH-rtlll fourth inning for in lhn m;~jors in 1990. IIP spcnl May :t I'>'J2. and Aug. I. I1J1JO.
prpvious ;i4 1-3 innings llouston. Jpl'f Bagw11ll. l.anrl' parts or the rwxt thr<•r s<'asons MikP Tromb!Py (4-SI. who
Kf'lly Wunsd1 I 5-:ll pitch rd Mariners 5, Red Sox 0 
Bnrkman ,llld Moisns Alou l'ol­in th<' minors bef'or1' lw was pitclwd :{ I.;{ innings. gav,• up
two innings for llw win. Keith Paul Abbott pitch0d 7 1.:1 
lowf'd with singh•s to Hr it at 2. signed by th,• Indians as a l.ot'lon's I]th honwr. a shot into
Foulk(' pitl'lwd llH' ninth for his innings ol' no-hit ball on to 
Hichard llidalgo addf'd an BBi rninor-!(1agtw f'n~c ag<•nt in l!J'B. tlw righl-liPld bullp<·n ,, ith 0111•
27th saw in :12 opportttnitirs. rebound from his worst start of
doubk. Chris Truby had a run­lie spent the next six y1iars in out in tlw I:H11.
Thormts hit an HBI double ,md the season and lead the Snattlc 
scoring groundottt. and Bill the minors -much of it on tlw Canwron Cairrwross (l-01 got
a two-run douhlP in the tirst as Mariners to a victorv ovnr the 
Spinrs had an HBI inlkld single disablr.d list for elbow. shoulder two outs !'or his first rim•m· win
tlw WhiU' Sox srnrl'd nilrn runs Boston Hrd Sox. · 
lo knock out Ashbv. and knt>e probli•ms. liv<'n tlw in his sixth ap1waran<'I'.
off Hamon Ortiz. who retin·d A journeyman who has made 
Truby's sarrilicP fly made it 6-Mariners. who sign!'d him as a Cairnrross said wlwn lw saw
onlv two batt1\rs in tlw shortest l O trips to the disabled list in a 
2 in thP fifth. minor-leagur, f'rrf' agnnt in 1998. l.ofton·s hom1•r land in th,,
outing in his 22-starl ntrPl'r. 1()-year career with six organi­
SpiPrs singled to cPntcr. dri­waivl'd him bdor<' rt\•signing bullpPn. "I didn't know what to
Thomas addPd a solo shot in the zations. Abbott (9-5) limited 
ving in Julio Lugo in tlw eighth him sending him to Tripi<•-;\ do -jump, rry. sit down. stand
sixth to drn,,· Chicago within I I­Boston to thrnl' bascrunnnrs ­
and Mrluskey followed with his bef'orr l,Lo.;t season. up. It was magir. man."
I0. It is t!w fourth 40-honwr on two walks and an error ­
14th hom<~r. CIPwland's viclorv. rnmbi1wd
s1•ason for Thomas. who hit only bf\forr, Hico Brogna singled up with Boston·s S-0 lo'.o.;s to SPaltlP
I;, in an injury-riddlPd 1991) lhn middlP with one oui in tlw Indians 12, Orioles 11 
and Oakland's 8-0 win ovl'r
Troy Claus snt an i\ngrds Cardinals 4, Mets 3 eighth. Kenny Lofton tiPd a major 
Toronto, put thl' Indians two
rncord by hitting his 40th honw Jim Edmonds beat the New After Midre Cummings 11ind league for scoring runs in con­
ganws alwad of Lill' !(pc( Sox and 
run. uni' of' l'ivP homers by York Mets with a home run for out to cr.nter, Abbott walkl'd srculive gamt'S, stoh~ a ntr<'cr­
Llw i\thlPtics in tlw wild rard
i\nah1\im. Tim Salmon and Scott the second time in three days. Scott Ilatteberg and Trot Nixon high 11ve basrs and hit a ganw­rat"!'.
Spiezio Pach hit thrre-run connecting in th!' 1 I th inning as to load the bases and was wi n ning homl' run l'or tlw Chris Hichar<l drovt> in six runshonwrs and Darrin Erstad hit a thr St. Louis Cardinals complet­replaced by .lose Paniagua. Cleveland Indians on Sundav. 
and hit two honwrs !'or
pair 111' solo shols. ed a thrnn-game sweep with a Nomar Garciaparra popped up Can you tnll his ldt shoiildP r 
llaltimorP. I lis two-run shot to
victory. to right field lo rnd the inning. feels bntler'! 
right-c1··ntt·r f'iPld off rt>lit>vt>r
Th(• NL CPntral-lcading then Paniagua retired the Hed Loflon·s solo horne1r in tlw 13th
Astros 9, Braves 3 Paul Shtwy tif'd Llw g-anw at I I 
Cardinals have won sevr.n of' Sox in ordt>r in thP ninth to linish inning gave the Indians a 12-11
Mitch l\folusk1•y honwrnd twic:P in till' St'V<'nlh inning. rnpping a
f' i g h t and a r<' 5-0 in extra thr r,ombined one-hitter and win over the Baltimorn Orioli•s.
and WadP Mill1!r won !'or tlw !'our-run rally whid1 lwgan with
innings owrall. The MPts swept earn his fourth save. It also gavti Lorton his l'ourth
third tinw in his last !'our dPc:i­two oulo.;.
St. Louis twice rarlier in th1~ sea­Mark McLemorn. who wrnt 3-run of the day ancr hP had
sions as tlw llouston Ao.;tros bnal Allwrt !kif<' rt~adH•d on whal 
son, but lost all thrnn gam1~s of for-4. and Stan Javier had two already tied a major l!iague
thl' ,1\tlanta Bravns. sf'<•nwd likP a playabll' ball Lo
this series bv one run on thP doubles apiecp for Seattle. while rr.cord by scoring in his 1/Hh
Tlw BravPs havP lost !'iv<' of Travis Frvman. llwn movf'd to
final at-bat. • Alex Hodrigurz was 2-for-3 with straight game. Hf'd Holl'P set thl'
stwen and night of 11. but still third on .1,",ff Cunirw's doubl1•. Cal
Edmonds hit a ninth-inning two walks and a two-run homer run-sc:oring stn1ak re,:ord in
hold a half-ganw lead in thr NL Hipknn, playing in his Sl'rond
homf!r on Fridav. and Fernando that madr it 5-0 in the ninth. 1939 for the New York YankPns. 
East ov1w tlw Nmv York Mets. ganw sin1·1• rnming olT tlw dis­
Vina hit a gam~-winning single The Mariners won for just the Lorton's day was even more
who lost 4-J in 1 I innings to SL ab!Pd list with bal'k probll'ms.
on Saturday. fifth time in their last 20 games, rr.markable considPring that
Louis. doublf'd to ll'f'l 111-ld to rut tlw
On Sundav. Edmonds 1ml off and they won conserutive games whnn spring training began. tlw
M1duskPV lt!d off thP fourth Indians' lt>ad to I I -1). Hirhard
the 11th b/hitting a 1-1 pitrh for the first timr, sinrr Aug. 10-Indians wer<'n't surP the ccntl'I'
with a h1m1Pr off Andy Ashby 18-follmwd with his s<'Vf'nth honwr. 
The Observer accepts classified, l'wry business d,1)' from 8 ,1.111. to .i p.111. .11 ,1,,. N111r,· !).1111c onic,·. 024 Sm,rh Dining Hall. Dcadli11e for next-day cLis,ificds i, .l p.m. All da,.,it,,·d, m11sr lw prq1,1id 
The ch.irge is 3 cents p<r char.icrcr per d,I)', i11cludi11g ,11! s11;1Lcs. The Ol»crvcr rc,crn·, the right to nlir .ill dassiticds for comcnt without issuing rdi,nds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
2 BDRM APTS. FOR 2000-01. LOVE KIDS? TICKET MART Here is a question: ALSO LEASING FOR 2001-02. WANT TO EARN GOD MONEY BUY/SELL/TRADE What kind of person shows up with DAVE 291-2209 BUT ONLY WORK A FEW HOURS ALL GAMES live minutes left in the SECOND
WANTED PERSONAL 
A WEEK? 271-9330 QUARTER and demands their EARN EXTRA CASH All SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE Area family needs individual to care I NEED YOUR HELP! seats? That is complelely assine If Word-processing from dictation AON CLOSE TO CAMPUS for two daughters 2-3 times/wk from ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED you can't gel yourself to lhe game involving client case studies Must http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ 3-6 p.m. starting mid-Sept. Mom A.M. -232-2378 l'M A '92 ND GRAD AND LOT MY before it is almost half over, you have computer. Dictaphone provid-email:mmmrentals@aol.com attending grad school in Chicago. P M · 288-2726 YEARBOOK IN A FLOOD. lose your rights to your seals ed. Call for info ~ interview morn-232-2595 Girls are delightful' Transprtn need-IF YOU KNOW ANYONE WHO ings. M-Thur. ed. Generous pay1 If interested BUY/SELL N.D. FOOTBALL TICK· HAS A '92 YEARBOOK AND This issue is dedicated 18033 Ask for Cindy. 287-3373 2BR. 2nd fir. Apt, 525/mo please call Karen ETS HOME & AWAY GAMES. WOULD NOT MINO PARTING College Park and all the men they 
Along St. Joe River Stonehill at 272-5013. (219)289-8048. WITH IT, PLEASE CALL ME AT nave hooked up with. Look carefully SPRINGBREAK 2001 Incl. Waler/SecSyst./Trash 830-772-5956 you will see at least three men that Hiring On-Campus Reps 288·2654 or Need 1 cheap Purdue Ticket. Call OR E-MAIL AT have swapped spit wit11 lhose SELL TRIPS. EARN CASH, GO 288-2788 TICKETS John 4-3670 esquivele@mindspring.com ladies. FREEi!! Thank you. Studenl Travel Services 1 mile from ND in quiel neighbor-BUSINESS MAN NEEDS GA Ticket Available for Cristina Sunday.. the day of NFL football... America's #1 Student Tour hood, 2 Bedroom very clean. $69, Nebraska tickets or season Nebraska Game· Sept. 9 Ortiz my room has EVERY GAME Operator 500 Lower Section. 20 Yd line HAHAHA Jamaica, Mexico, Bahamas, Call G.A.only. Contact Jay: (201) 264-0262 SKYDIVE Europe, Florida 219-264-4966 277-1659 Training Students for 35 Years Sunday... the day of White Sox l ·800•648-4849 FOR SALE -1 Hour North of South Bend baseball Comeback after came­www.gospringbreak com That Pre11y Place, Bed and ALWAYS BUYING NEBRASKA STANFORD, AIR FORCE, GREAT LAKES SKYDIVERS, INC back... this team never Quits.. 
Breakfast Inn has space available 271-9330 BOSTON. 1 ·800-351-6617 Looking lor a babys11ter 1n our tor football/parent wknds. 5 rooms Cheap. 654-0168 www.grea!lakessydivers.com Sunday... the day of 90210 home. Flex hours. No Sundays. with private baths, $80-$115, Need t,x -75 Grad need 2-4 GA for marathons on FIX ... Dylan. Kelly, Please call 258-4115 Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Neb and/or Pur. WANTED Recent ND grads need Turtle Creek Brenda, Brandon. 'Steve. Donna, 
Toll Road. Ex,r #107, Cau Tony NO FOOTBALL TICKETS apartment to crash at for ND-NU and David ... I love you all very 1-800-418-9487. (714)523-3686. 289-9280 weekend. $600 and will stock apart-much. 
FOR RENT  I have 5 bedrooms for rent in my  VICTORY TKTS  NEED 3-5 GA TICKETS FOR  ment with lots of food and bever­ages/fund big party.  Mei1er Saturday nights .. it doesn't  
nicely decorated private hoe for  BUY-SELL "TRADE  NEBRASKA FOOTBALL GAME.  Counteroffers encouraged. !llfil:  gel much better.  
SOUTH BENO LODGING  Football  ND FOOTBALL  PLEASE CALL 1·630·904-6418  1ea@aIumoi law uoe .. edu  
In-home B&B lodging for football  weekends; less than 2 miles north  232~0964  THANKS  There once was a lillle boy who had  
games & ND-SMC events. Close to  of stadium, continental brkfst includ­ www.victorytickets.com  I wish I lived in Turtle Creek. Thal is  a pal. The pal's name was Al. Al  
campus. Breaklast incl. Call  ed.  SELLING  a pretty sweet deal.  had a bucket full of really neat toys.  
219·243·2628 or  many happy repeat customers! Call  BUY/SELL ND TICKETS  ND FOOTBALL TKTS  I can't believe no one has accepted  The little boy stole Al's bucket. Al  
garyb@mvillage.com  Kim 277-8340  273-3911  251-1570  yet.  got mad and beat up his friend.  

Monday, September 4, 2000 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 

JOIN the Student Interna tional Business Council (S.I.B.C.) 
Come learn about how-you can be a part of this International Circuit 
First meeting of the Fall 2000 Acaden1ic Year! When? Tuesday, September 5th­7pm 
Where? The Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business 
All Majors Wclcollle! ! 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 4, 2000 
NFL 
Testaverde tosses game-winning TD in return 
As.ociueJ Press 
The Now York Jets stopped 
Bretl J;avre from r.onjuring any 
last-minute magic. 
Curlis Marlin rushed 30 limes 
for I IO vards and a touchdown 
and cau.ghl a 2-yard TO pass 
from Vinny Testaverde with 
'.1:30 tPH as the Jets beat the 
Green Bay Packers 20-16 
Sunday in ttw coaching debuts 
ol' Al Croh and MikP Sherman. 
But it wasn't ov(1r until Favre 
was denied yot another como­
bnck win. Victor Green made an 
a(Tobatic interception at thn Jets 
9 with 1:08 to play that robbed 
Uill Schroeder of a likely Louch­
down catch and clinched thn vic­
tory 
1iavrn. who l<'d the Packers to thnie last-minute victories at l.ambeau Field last season ­including thf! 1999 opener vs. Oaklnnd -stooc'I at midfield with his hands on his hips after throwing his only intNception of tho gamr.. 
Tho Packers lost at home in September for the first time since Sept. 3, l 995. Green Bay has four losses in its last six games at Lambeau after win­ning 44 of the previous 46 home gamP.s in Green Bay and Milwaukee. 
Favre. playing for the first time in a month after missing thrnc pn1s1:ason games with ten­dinitis in his throwing P.ibow. didn't look physically limited, but was just 14-of-34 for 152 yards. lie often grabbed his arm after throws late in the game. 
Likt1 Favre. Testaverdc looked rusty and uncertain in the pock­et in his first rcgular-snason action since tnaring his Achilles' tendon in th1\ '99 opener. He ov(1rthrew SPV!'.ral rnceivP.rs and was called for two intentional grounding penalties before fin­ishing 23-of-44 for 261 yards and a TD. 
the scoring. Hyan Leaf provided to beat the Seattle Seahawks. Steelers' first at home since it especially whnn you'rn down 
the drama. The openor was Miami's first happened twice in 1989. It was and you can holp your team 
Leaf was battued and even without Marino since 1983, and their seventh c<msecutive loss in out." bloodied. with three intercep­he was hardly missed. While Three Hivers Stadium against Detroit needP.d Urn help as it tions and two fumbles, as the Fiedler wont 15-for-24 with no the AFC Central. managed only a pair ol' l'ield San Diego Chargers fell to the turnovers. Seattle counterpart Tony Banks looked uncertain goals br.forc IIoward grabbf!d a llaidcrs. Jon Kitna threw four intercep­at times in a redosigm~d Havens punt with 2:06 lnf't in tho third 
Andre llison caught a 10-yard tions and lost a fumble before offense that now features short quarter and ramblod downfield. scoring pass from Kich Gannon being benched early in the third throws rather than deep passes. giving the Lions a 12-7 lnad. with 2:53 left to givr, Oakland period. But he still found Qadry Ismail On the Lions' 2-point conver­the winning margin. Smith, a 29-yoar-old journey­on a 54-yard touchdown pass in sion, a pass to Johnnie Morton 
Leaf making his first NFL reg­man who has twice been the first quarter, lsmail's fourth sailed over his hnad in tho nnd ular-season appearance in 20 released by NFL teams, carried scoring catch of !'iO-plus yards ZO!lf!, but the Saints were months. hnd led the Chargers on 27 times and nipoatedly took against Pittsburgh in two games, llaggcd for intcrf'orrrncc, giving a 15-play, 80-yard drive that advantage of blocking by rookie Banks was 18-of'-32 for 199 Detroit another shot f'rom tho 1. ended with Hobert Chancey's 3-tackle Todd Wade. Olindo Mare, yards in a turnover-the offense, On the second chance, ,James yard run. A two-point conver­who set an NFl. record last year "Sixteen points is not going to Stewart ran it in for a 14-7 mar­sion failed. with 39 linld goals, went 3-for-3. beat many teams in this league," gin. 
Lear hit 17 of 39 passes for with kicks from 48, 25 and 30 Shannon Sharpe said. "W11 just "I just think about D&D," 
180 vards. yards. ran into a team that's having Morton said. "Dosmond and 
mion, making his regular-sea­New Dolphins coach Dave problems and they weren't very defense. Without them, wn son debut with the Raiders. had Wannstedt improved to 2-11 good." might bf\ going homn with a bit­five catches for 49 yards, against Seattle's Mike Holmgren. Priest Holmes, who averaged ter feeling." Gannon was 20-of-35 for 176 Their previous games came nearly 90 yards as the Ravens Saints kicker Doug Brion yards. lie was sacked four when Wannstedt coachP.d the closed last season by winning closed the Saints to 14-1 0 with a times. Chicago 13ears and Holmgren five of seven, pounded out 119 48-yard field goal in the fourth 
Neithnr team scored until 7:23 tho Grncn Bay Packers. yards. The St11elers played the quarter, but Nr.w OrlP-ans could of the third quarter. With the second half without run-stufling get no closer. Chargers on their 1-yard line, linebacker Levon Kirkland, who "We've got a long way to go,"
Ravens :16, Steelers O 

Darrell Bussell tackled Chancey sprained an ankle. Saints coach .Jim Hasl<~tt said of'
The Pittsburgh Steelers were
in the end zone for a safety. his regular-season debut as an
convinced their offense couldn't
Later in the same quarter, the NFL coach.
possibly be as bad as it was last Lions 14, Saints 10
second of Leaf's fumbles was If' offense really does sell tick­
season. The Baltimore Havens Desmond Howard knows what
recovered by Oakland defensive ets, the Lions and the Saints
made certain it was. it means to make defenders miss
end Regan Upshaw -although might bo playing in empty stadi­
Baltimore's pass-rushing at the Superdome.
the Raiders couldn't capitalize ums bf!forr. midseason. 
defense didn't allow Pittsburgh Howard's 95-yard punt return 
on the turnover. Leaf recovered Detroit, with Stoney Casr, fill­
to cross midfield until the second Sunday gave the Detroit Lions
his first fumble himself ing in at quarterback l'or injured
half, harassed quarterback Kent the lead for good in a 14-10 vic­
Leaf also had three turnovers Charlie Batch. had only 187
Graham into numerous mis­tory over the New Orleans Saints 
in his last NFL game on Dec. 13, yards in total of'l'Pnse. 10 first
throws and gave the Havens' in their season opener. It was
1998, at Seattle. downs and conv<~rted !'our of' ·1 (i
developing offense time to grind reminiscent of Howard's 99­
Leaf did not connect on his third downs. Case was 13-of'-25
out a victory. yard kickoff return on the same
first two passes of the game and for 100 yards, with ono intercep­
"We kind of played {old-style) field in the 1997 Super Bowl
wa.'i 6-of-19 at the half Midway tion and two sacks. 
Steelers ball," Ravens coach that clinched the Green Bay
through the first quarter. he New Orleans' newly installed
Brian Billick said. "To do that in Packers' 35-21 victory over the
backed up on a play and West Coast offense wnnt south.
their backyard ... the toughest New England Patriots. 
appeared to simply fall over -The Sainl<; had only 252 yards in
thing in sports must be shutting "The one in the Super Bowl
for a loss of 6 yards. total offense. 13 first downs and
out a team on the road." was a little longer," Howard
On San Diego's third series of convert!'.d six of' 17 third downs. 
The shutout loss was the said. "But six points is six poinl<;,
the game, Leaf effectively moved the ball tn the Oakland 34. But a 

pass tipped off the fingers of------------------------------------------. receiver Curtis Conway and into the hands of Oakland safety Marquez Pope. 
Martin carri(~d the offensive load in th!'. 29th 100-yard rush­Dolphins 23, Seahawks 0 ing gamr of his career. He left Even without Dan Marino, the !'or one of'fonsivf! series late in Miami Dolphins had the better tho first hall' with a twisted loft quarterback Sunday. They also knr.c, but returned for the sec­had the better running game ond half and continued to pound and better defense. at th(! Packnrs. Jay Piedler threw for 134 
yards and Lamar Smith ran for

Raiders 9, Chargers 6 
145 in their Dolphins debuts,The Oakland Haiders provided and Miami forced six turnovers 

All current juniors are invited to attend an in­formational meeting on the 
TRUMAN SCHOLARSHIP 
Tuesday, September 5 217 DeBartolo 4p.m. 

The TrumanScholarship is amerit-based $30,(XX) scholarship awarded to students who plan to puISUe careers in government orelsewhere in public service and wish to attend graduate orprof~sional school to help prepare for their careers. Students who are interestr.d but can­not attend should contactAva Preacher by e-mail at Preacher.l@nd.edu 
The Career Center 
FALL .2000 EVENTS 
AUGUST  
29-Tue  4:00-5:00 p.m.  Composing Winning Resumes  G-20 Flanner (basmt)  
30-Wed Noon-I :00 p.m.  Catch the Opportunities  
o~ Go IRISH (Bring your lunch)  119 O'Shaughnessy  
30-Wed  6:30-7:30 p.m.  Composing Winning Resumes  G-20 Flanner (basmt)  
31-Thu  4:00-5:00 p.m.  Learn How to Use Go IRISH  G-20 Flanner (basmt)  

Videotaped Mock Interviews -Improve your job interviewing skills with a company recruiter. Sign-up in the Career Resource Center-First Floor of Flanner Hall beginning Tuesday, August 22 (seniors) and Tuesday, August 29 Guniors). 
SEPTEMBER 

05-Tue Noon-1:00 p.m. Resume Writing (Bring your lunch) 119 O'Shaughnessy 12-Tue 6:00-7:00 p.m. Successful Interviewing G-20 Flanner (basmt) 13-Wed 5:30-7:00 p.m. Preparing for a Job Fair 
(Resumes, Interviews & More) 245 DeBartolo 18-Mon Noon-1:00 p.m, Resume Writing (Bring your lunch) 119 O'Shaughnessy 19-Tue 4:00-5:00 p.m. Interviewing 119 O'Shaughnessy 20-Wed 5:30-7:00 p.m. Preparing for a Job Fair 
(Resumes, Interviews & More) 245 DeBartolo 27-Thu 5:30-7:00 p.m. Resume Writing TBA 
Register to use Go IRISH by calling 1-5200 or stopping by Flanner Hall 
The Career Center 

248 Flanner Hall http://careercenter.nd.edu (219) 631-5200 
·-=:-" ·-~·;f/ithi
·-,..,_-f,~;,_-_;. 

Did you know that to interview on-campus you must be registered to use Go IRlSH 
Monday, September 4, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
Culpepper runs in 3 touchdowns, Vikings w-in 30-27 
Associated flress 
MINNEAPOLIS 

Daunte Culpepper's legs were more impressiv1~ than his right arm. 
Culpepper. the final member ot' last year's heralded quarter­back class to take over an offense. ran for three touch­downs in the Minnesota Vikings' :m-27 comr.back victory over the C11icago Bm1rs on Sunct'ay. 
Tim 1 I Lh overall pick of the 1999 drafl. wh<> took just six snaps last season as a ba..kup to Handall Cunningham and Jeff George, rushed 10 timf!s for 78 yards before taking a knee on the Vikings last three snaps. 
Before thosf! final snaps. Culprpper had the second-most rushing yardage for a quarter­back in the tnam's 40-vear his­tory. trailing only Fran Tarkenton's 99 yards against the Hams in 1%1. 
With 13 rarrirs for 73 yards. he's third in team annals. behind Tarkenton and Wade Wilson's 75 yards rushing against Washington in 1987. 
The clusiv<1 Culpepper strug­gled to get tlw ball into the hands of Cris Carter and Randy Moss. the fourth-best receiving tandem in NFL history last year. Culpepper was l 3-for-23 for 190 yards. no touchdowns and orw intercrption. 
But his scrambling ability and a 109-yard rushing day by HobPrt Smith madf' it a moot point. 
CulpPpp<\r linally found Moss for (i(J yards to thn Chicago 7 early in the fourth quartP.r. On tlw next snap. Culpepper scored 
¦ ¦ 
New Meetings for Students and Young Adults. 

312 Lafortune Student Center Mondays7PM 
on a draw, giving Minnesota a 23-20 lead with 10:59 left. 
Culpepper, who also had a 1­yard touchdown dive in the third quarter. scored on a 4-yard keeper with 4:35 left to make it 30-20 after a 59-yard burst by Smith. 
Cade McNown, who started six times as a rookie last year, ran for his first career touchdown, a zigzagging 8-yarder with 1:17 left that pulled the Bears to :30­
27. 
Jaguars 27, Browns 7 
As long as Mark Brunell stays healthy, .lacksonvillR's window of opportunity remains wide open, even if it is a little cracked. 
BrunRII. one of the Jaguars' few stars who is not hurt, passed for 301 yards and one touchdown as Jacksonville opened another season of Super Bowl plans by beating the Cleveland Browns. 
Brunell completed 24 of 34 passes. induding eight straight to open the second half when the Jaguars scored 10 straight points following a crucial fumble by Browns rookie tight end Aaron Shea. · 
Playing behind an offensive line missing right tackle Leon Searcy. center John Wade and with right tackle Tony Boselli less than 100 percent after off­season knee surgery, Brunell still had plenty of time to pick apart the Browns' secondary. 
Brunell hardly missed after halftime, going 11-of-13 for 148 yards. His two inr.ompletions were on intentional overthrows. 
Ja..ksonville's running game hardlv missed feature back Fred Taylor as Stacey Mack and Chris Howard both ran for scores. 


Keenan Mccardell had nine recPptions for 115 yards, Jimmy Smith had a TD catch. and tight end Kyle Brady had a career day, catching live passes for 85 yards. 
Mike Hollis added two field goals for the Jaguars. 
Browns quarterback Tim Couch, ripped for his play dur­ing the preseason. finished 19­of-27 for 160 yards and one TD. 
Cleveland managed just 249 yards of total offense, but the Browns did show signs they might be better than last year's 2-14 team. 
Falcons 36, 49ers 28 

The Super Bowl, it wasn't. Still. for a team desperate to prove last year was an aberra­tion. the Atlanta Falcons had plenty of reasons for optimism. 
Again. Jamal Anderson ran with his knock-'em-down, drag­'em-along style. Right away, Shawn Jefferson and Ashley Ambrose paid dividends on a hefty investment. And this time, the Falcons didn't have to wait until Week 5 for their first victo­ry. 
"Once we got rolling, it was very much approaching what we were able to do a couple of years ago." Chris Chandler said after Atlanta opened with a vic­tory over the San Francis..o 49ers. 
Two years ago. the Falcons made it all the way to the Super Bowl. Anderson isn't making his reservations for Tampa just yet, knowing this was the 49ers in name only. 
"We've got some work ahead of us before we can run around with banners," said Anderson, who rushed for 77 yards on 24 carries after tearing up his knee early last season. "But at least we're headed in the right direc­tion." 


Jefferson caught seVfm passes for a career-high 148 yards, while Ambrose returned an interception 36 yards for a touchdown. Both were playing their first games for the Falcons, who signed them to contracts totaling nearly $37 million after starting last season 0-4 and fin• ishing 5-11. 
"We wanted to show them what type of players they picked up," Ambrose said. 
San Francisco still is picking up the pieces after going 4-12, ending a run of 16 straight win­ning seasons that included five Super Bowl titles. 
Jeff Garcia, taking over for­mally as successor to the retired Steve Young, threw for 253 yards and three touchdowns. But he also underthrew Jerry Rice along the left sideline in the third quarter, giving Ambrose a chance to step in for the easy touchdown. 
"I really believe we are going to be a good team," Garcia said. "We know where we have to go from here." 
Atlanta's Morten Andersen tied a career high with five field goals, all in the first half. and broke Mick Luckhurst's team record for most career field goals with 119. Andersen has 421 overall. 
Eagles 41, Cowboys 14 

There was an onside kickoff to start the game, frequent blitzes and an endless dose of Duce Staley. 
No matter what the PhiladRlphia Eagles threw at the Dallas Cowboys, it all worked. 
Staley ran for 201 yards and a touchdown and the Eagles' defense knocked out Troy Aikman in the second quarter, carrying Philadelphia to a stun­ningly easy victory. 
Staley, who also had 62 yards receiving, became tho Eagles' first 200-yard runner since Steve Van Buren in 1949. Ii was the first time the Cowboys allowed that many yards to a running back since 1984 and it was their worst opening-game loss since falling 28-0 in 1989. 
The embarrassing debut for coach Dave Campo and his new offense was made worse by Aikman sustaining the ninth concussion of his career. lie was taken to a hospital for observa­tion. 
Also hurt was OaI!as' new $42 million receiver, Joey Galloway, who was carted off the field with a sprained km~e_ with two min­utes left in the game. 
In 109-degree heat -171 on the artificial turf-Aikman mis• fired all live of his passes and was sacked for 30 yards in loss­es on his other four attempts. Three of the sacks came on the opening series, incredible con­sidering he went down only 19 times all of last season. The Cowboys did not give up a sack in their final 94 pass attempts of 1999, when they allowed the second-fewest sacks in the NfL. 
Aikman's only pass that was caught went to Philadelphia linebacker Jeremiah Trotter. He returned it 27 yards for a touch­down that put the Eagles up 21­0 early in the se..ond quarter. 
Aikman was KO'd on the next series and Randall Cunningham replaced him. His first two cnm­pletions -which took five pres­sure-filled attempts -went a total of 2 yards and he threw an interception before getting a first down. 
Philadelphia's offense started as smooth as its defense thanks to thR l-2 punch or Staley and quarterback Donovan McNabb. 
On the opening kickoff, the Eagles caught Dallas by surprise with an onside kick. David Akers popped up the kick and Dameane Douglas caught it at the 42. 


Buy /Sell/Trade 
Nebraska Wanted 
Preferred Tickets 
234-5650 
E JUICY COUTURE PRAD.\.
itTSfYToHAISoll  
•  MIS!!i §IXTY.  
LACOSTE  Fo,-r,o,-1nc:i  
BCBG MAXAZRIA  GUCCI  


1-RENCH CONNECTION
JAMl·S Pf.RSE 

¼ easel
l.05 ANGELES 

ARE YOU A SLAVE TO FASHION? 
Then work for us. We are looking for an outgoing, fashion-conscious girl to represent our e-commerce website at your school. You mu$! be hardworking, self-starting and motivated. Our company carries the best fashions from all the best lines. Get paid to wear your favorite clothes. Get clothing discounts on all your favorite brands. Earn commissions. Become part of our national team by emailing us at servico@shopbop.com tor an application. 
Or call 1.608.255.2570, 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 4, 2000 
WOMEN'S GOLF 

By STEPHANIE REDWANSKJ 
~purrs 'v1/nrc•1· 
Frnshman Liz I!anion !Pd tlw B(>/lt>s golf ll'am lo an f\ighLh placP f1nish in its first tourna­ment of' thc vi>ar. Host Fnrris SlalP tinislwd· first out of thr. 15 lPams but lh1\ emeq.{1~11cP of 1lanlon made lht' Wfwkend a surc(\SS f'or the B1dlr.s. 
"Tlw f'rnshman did exception­ally Wfdl." said hr.ad coach Tlwrcsa J>PkarPk. llanlon shot a l'irsl round scorn of 1n and a snrond round scon• of 86. Iler sncond round scorP was the best single rm111d shot for the Lr.am in thc tournamcnl. 
llnr overall scon• was very impressivP considt\ring she had nPVf\r playPd rnmpPtitive golf until this wt•Pkf\nd . .Jnnnifer Dewitt. also a l'rnshman. shot a t)2 on Saturdav. 
VPtnrans also conlributnd as junior Mary Clain' Ilathaway shot lwr bi's! round on Saturday with a scorP of' 87. SPnior 
Natalie Cook shot a 1)0 on Saturdav and a 92 on Sunday. "ThP-si, scorPs arn sonwthing I am wry proud of." said PPkarl'k. 
Th(' tnam has nine membPrs but can only travel with six or seven of thl'm. Pekarek said deciding whirh playnrs will trav­el C'ach WP.ek be hard and the away roster will probably changt\ from week to week ­especially if thn freshmen con­tinue lo play well. 
From what sh(i could tell from this tournament. Pekarek feels that shP has a very competitive team with a lot of young as well as vr,teran potential. After this tournamnnt shP can se~1 that thr,rn is much room for improvc­mPnt. 
"We need consistency and our pulling needs a lot of work... she said. 
l'ckarek's goal is to get the Lnam able to mentally prepare. If thny havl' a bad hole slrn wants them to bP abln to move on and stay focusnd on ead1 round. 
Yes Mandy, it IS your birthday! 
Happy 
21st! 
Love, Kate, Colleen, Lana, & Lindsay 


COLLIGI MIGHT 
MONDAYS & THURSDAYS 9 PM -12 MIDNIGHT 
UMLIJ,\ITID BOWLING 
$5 PER PERSON SHOES EXTRA 
Beacon Bowl -4210 Lincolnway W, South Bend 234 -4167 
Soccer 
continued from page 20 

rran players to stnp up and br consistent enough day-to-day," Waldrum admittnd. "Wf.' h1wP. somr work to do." 
After a slug-gish. sloppy effort against Tulsa, Notr<' Danrn l\ntered play against Providrm,·,1 looking to put. forth a sharprr effort. t\fi<'r out-gun­ning LhPir pnwious two oppo­nPnts by a total of 84-4. and not having nearly as many goals as they would likP to 
show f'or  it the  Irish  wc'rc  
dPtermined  to  makt'  tlwir  
rhanc,•s  ,tgainst  thP  Lady  
Friars rount.  

lndrt>d. that is 11xactly what th<'v did. 
l)espit(' thn defonsiw-mindcd Lady Frial's parking tlin box. and playing very conscrvativc­
lv. thn Irish wcni still able; lo s·trikr qui('.kly. 
Freshman sfins,ition Amy \Vanwr scorP<l lwr first two cart'Pr goals in the gamr's lirst half' bd'ore romplnling the hat­trirk with just undrr 15 min­utes rPmaining by vollrying a ball from Makinf'n in to thP top half of the not. 
Frt1shnrnn Amanda Guertin addnd a goal. while Dryer notcht>d her first collcgialt> tallv. 
\\'aldrum wa·s much more pleased with his tr.ams' latnst showing. 
"I think in thn f1rst half the rhythm of play was good," he said. "Wn're getting closer. We have no problems crnating, we need to be more cfliciP.nt." 
Waldrum was particularly complimentary of Warner, a recruiting coup who had gone unnoticed until assistant coach Amy Edwards stumbled upon her in Florida last winter. Warner. who also ran track in 

high school. brings a great dP,tl of speed and fire to the offon­sive attack. 
"We Lhought she'd do it." Waldrum admitted. "She was kind of a sleeper. As a team we're. so much more athletic than last year." 
The concerns Waldrum has for his tt1am are rooted in thr, fact that the schrdule becomes much tougher this wceknnd as Notre Dame entertains third­ranked Santa Clara -the same squad it stunnnd in last year's NCAA semifinals -and Stanford, the nation's scvnntll­ranked tPam. With Santa Clara having rnvnng,\ on its mind. Waldrum knows his Learn will not havo 32 shots as it did against Providence. 
"Wn'rc not going to haw that manv chances," Waldrum said. "Wp.'rn going to nnPd to bl' morn eflkicnt." 
Though still not ail tognther plPascd. Waldrum l'nnls his t11am is moving in the right dirnction. 
"Earh gamn has been a bit bntter," he said. "I think our intensity irvnl has bnnn prPtty good." 

~~~~~,~~ ~"c.c.~'-~G-s-
Tuesday, September 5 --7:00 p.m. --Carroll Auditorium, SMC or Wednesday, September 6 --7:00 p.m. --Hesburgh Auditorium, ND 
Saint Mary's 


Open to all ND/SMC students 
Excellent academic program at Sacred Heart College in Cochin, India, focusing on the Asian world 16 semester credits applicable towards core or major requirements 
Opportunity for travel and study in many countries of the Far East, Southeast Asia, South Asia, Eastern Europe and Western Europe 


INFORMATION AND APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE SHORT VIDEO ON HIGHLIGHTS ALUMNI TO ANSWER QUESTIONS 

-1%1­
SAINT 

SEMESTER A.ROUND Tllli WORLD PROGRAM (219) 284-4468 OR 44731 FAX (219) 284-4866 OR 273•~973 MARY'S 
COLLEGE

e-mait: pullapil@saintmarys.edu; http://www.saintmarys.edu/saw 
NOTRI DAME, IN 


Monday, September 4, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAJ:\,IS i . 
201 SECUR.ITY BUILDING 
Notre 
T: 
Fax: 

RO~E 
INFORlVIATION ~EETING 
Professor Michael Francis, Assistant Provost Campus International Development 
Wednesday September 6, 2000 
4:45 p~ 129 DeBartolo 
Fox 
continued from page 20 
Fortunatelv for the visi­tors. orrn of their tight ends got r,alled for illegal procP­dure. mfmning that the play. in effect. never happened. The referees moved the ball five yards back, and A&M settled for a field goal. 
Seven minutes and 35 seconds off the dock. 79 yards. one lost defensive captain. and a !fold goal both sidos knew the guys wearing maroon were lucky to get. 
Thr. Aggies never scored again, and Notre Dame ol' course went 011 to ,vin. 
1think the story would've been pretty good if it had cmded right th<ml. 
But it didn't. 
NBC has a camera right above the stairs going from tho Notre Dame locker room down to the tunnel which it usuallv uses to show the player~-; hitting the "Go Irish Go" and "Plav Like a Champion T,;day" signs bPl'ore the game. 
OncP Irons had Jell the 
field and starte:d to come up 
tlw stairs. NBC mt away 
from the game to that stair­
way deep within side the 
stadium. 
Thnre I saw Grant. obvi­
ouslv worn out bv the heat. 
his pads off. his l~g stiff and 
causing a slight limp. and 
his gray undershirt 
drnnclwd in sweat 
I lis lwad was down a little 
bit as hn movnd towards the 
lockc1r room to get treat­ment. 
And then. when he reached the top of the stairs, just before he disap­peared from view. I saw one big llst reach out to his left and tap the "Go Irish Go" sign. 
Strength. Unity. Heart. Desire. That one simple ges­ture showed all those things are present in Irons and his teammates who elected him to be their captain. 
Even ifhe hadn't been able to r.ome back and play the last five minutes of the game, that sense of purpose and dedir.ation would've pervaded all that he and the Irish did on Saturday. 
But more importantly, even if NBC didn't have a camera ahove that stairway and no one but the two trainers behind him ever saw that fist tap, it wouldn't have mattered. 
That ar.knowledgment wasn't so the publir. or the tans or the mr.dia would be impressed. 
It was for his teammates, 
still doing battle in that 100 
degree heat, saying, "I know 
you guys are going lo get 
the job done. and I'll be 
back as soon as I can." 
You have to think that no 
matter where they were on 
the sideline or the field, they 
all heard that familiar thud 
and smiled. 
And then they went bar,k 
to work. knowing this series 
would last a lot longer than 
just mm game. 
The opinions expressed in this co!TJ.mn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Belles open season against Alma 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's College soccer team opens its 2000 MIAA and regular season with a home con­test against the Alma College Scots on Sept. 4 at 4 p.m. 
"This will be the start of a team who gets better every year," Belles head coach Jason Milligan said. "It will be action-packed." 
Alma opened its season Saturday with a win against Manchester College. Paula Schwarz recorded the second shutout of her r.areer as the Scots scored three goals in the llrst 25 minutes before crusing to a 4-0 

''This will be the start of
win. Freshmen Mention Megan Karchon and a team who gets better All-MIAA Sara Mensere led for the 1999
every yea,: 
the Sr.ots with a season. goal and an assist a "They piece. Jason Milligan have all Milligan fully Saint Mary's Soccer Coach s h o w n 
intends for his team to answer the chal­lenge of the Alma fnishmen. 
"We are much further along this year at this point than we were last year," Milligan said. "Our abil­ity to move the ball quickly and precisely is excellent and we have many women who are not afraid to move the ball." 
While the Belles' home opener may become a battle of freshman forwards, it will also be a duel between junior netminders, as Tia Kappahn, a veteran between the posts returns to the crease for the Belles after a year playing in the midfield and on the front lines. 

"Tia Kapphahn will be starting in goal against Alma," Milligan said. "At this point Tia has the starting position but I am very impressed with the improvement in Laura [Metzger, the freshman goalkecpBr]." 
Kapphahn will also share team captain duties for the season with juniors Jessica Klink and Katy Robinson and sophomore Heather Muth. Klink started at defense last season, while Robinson brings considerable experience at both defense and midfield. Muth was a standout at forward and midfield for the Belles her freshman sea­son, and was honored with the Coaches Honorable 
excellent 
leadership," Milligan said. "They r.omplement each other well. It's a dynamic group that can lead us to success." 
The Belles finished fifth in the MIM with their best record yet, but had trouble finishing their scoring opportunities. 
Alma was forced to forfeit two victories after it was disr.overed that an ineligible player partic­ipated in those contests. Alma fin­ished the season with a 3-14-1 season record and went 1-6-1 in the MIM to finish seventh out of the eight teams in the MIAA women's soccer league. 
With their decisive victory over Manchester, Alma comes to Saint Mary's with something to prove. The Belles are confident that they can withstand that challenge. 
"l think the quality of our shoot­ing ability is much better," assis­tant coach Jared Hochstetler said. "We have more people who can score." 
"I am extremely optimistic about the future performance of this team." Milligan said. "Every day they have improved and victo­ries over BethBl and the South Bend Fury definitely gave us a good picture of how good we may become." 
Despite the fact that only 11 players returned this season to the Belles, the freshmen have filled the gaps well and the team is ready for some real action. 
''The upperclassmen are doing an absolutely superb job prepar­ing our young players for competi­tion," Milligan said. "Their leader­ship on and oIT the field has hur­ried along the development of everyone on the team. I am also very happy that spots we had wor­ried about are being filled effec­tively." 
The Belles defeated the Scots 
last season on Alma's home turf 
2-0. Now the Belles have the 
opportunity to continue their vic­
torious trend in a contest in famil­
iar territory. 
"Last season's Igame against 
Alma] was one of the best games 
all year," Milligan said. 'The posi­
tive attitudes on the team are the 
key." 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 4, 2000 




"Wittenberg always ment," Sr.hroeder-Biek said. regionally ranked and sonw­"Shc got her hands on 
what-r============================================================================:;ii
limns nationallv rankPd, sown rwer came near. knew it was· going to bn Saint Mary's will face Bethel tough," SchroedPr-Biek said. College this Tu1>sday at 7 pm. "But the lirst two gamr.s could Schroeder-Bick will be have gone either way." working with her women on 
Thr. Belles dropped the lirst defensr before that game. two games 12-15 and 11-15. "We want our defense tran­/\ftpr that. Wittenberg tirPd sitions to be crisper and I'll be th1~ Bnllns out and took the focusing primarily on front third gamP 15-:1. line defense." 
::~~lleg,ance 
aCardinal Health company
A Salute to the Leaders of Tomorrow ­Air Force ROTC Cadets 
We are looking for . .. 
College is a time for decision. 

talented individuals majoring in either Finance or Accounting
Choose to become a leader. 

that have an interest to work in the corporate Finance Setting 
Scholarships avaitable for Freshmen in Electrical Engineering -Scholarship 
We offer ...
would start this Springllll 

2 year Financial Development Program which allows you to
Scholarships available for Sophomores in: Chemistry, Comp Info Systems, Comp Science, Math, 

experience up to 4 different rotations that will further your 
Physics, Foreign Area Studies, or Languages and the following 
career 
Engineering majors: Aeronautical, Aerospace. Chemical, Civil, 

-
, Domestic &International Opportunities both during and 
Computer, Electrical, Environmental. Industrial. 

after the Financial Development Program
Mechanical, or Nuclear 

*Resume Drop Dates: September 8 -25 ., Look for·us at the Business Career forum: September 21-22 
Making Leaders for the Air force and 

VISIT OUR WEBSITE @ WWW.ALLEGIANCE.NET 
Better Citizens for America 
Contact Captain Klubeck at 631-4676, or Kl:r11<:ck.1@nd.edu 

VOLLEYBALL Belles view--winless tourney as success 
Hy KATIE MCVOY 
Assisr.111, Spun, Edi«H 
llr·lying on its young mnm­brrs. thn Saint Mary's vollny­ball tPam t'inish,,d this wc•nk­n 11 d · s lour n a nH' 11 t at A Im a wilh a rl'1'11rd ol' 0-5. 
llownvn. tlw tPam viPws tlw wtwknnd as a sucet!SS. 
"Wp'r,, inPxpPrirn1·Pd." head coach Ju Ii f' Sr hr1w <l Pr-Bie k s a icl . " ITlw ten m I p Ia .v H d grnat. J•:v.-n though tlH•y losl. it \.Vas a grPat Lourn,rnwnl1" 
Th!' BPll,~s. who b,•gan this s1·ason with 11nly four rf'turn­ing athl<'lPS, had thPir work nit nut for tlwm as tlwv f'arNI riv,• Vl'rv t.a!PtllPd ll'anis with 11 nt• p I a·y" r out inj u n'd . and junior .loli1• l.1•lkau not play­ing at I 00 1wrc·1•11l bPr,LUSI' or illrwss. Tlwy did acrnmplish t.!wir main goal. h11,\'PVf'I'. 
"Consid,·ring how litth• tinw Wt' had in [HI'S Pason, we• gPllPd vPry w,dl this WPPk­l'IHL" l'rPshrrntn sLarLPr I.Pigh ,\1111 MatPsirh said. 
Ttw WP<'k(•nd bq~an with a '.l-1 loss to .\Ima Fridav nvPning. Tlw BPllPs droppf•il the first ga1111• I 0-15. but 1·amf' bat·k and won tlw ser­ond ganw 15-4. lloWPV<'r, tlwy lost LhP momt>nLum and droppPd tlw last two gam('S 4­1!i and 12-15. 
The lkllt>s had littlt• time to rcr.over before thev facPd Spring Arbor. a match they lost 3-0. 
Saturday morning began with the toughest match ol' thn tournament, as Saint Marv's racl'd off against rngionaliy­rnnk1•d WittPnb(wg. 
is 
"W(\ were pumped up about how wP!l we played against WillenbPrg." Schrueder-Biek said. "So we werr ready for Carthadgr." 
Saint Mary's playHd its strongrst mat<:h of' thn tourna­nwnt «ga.inst Carthadge. los­ing 3-2. The Brllrs droppnd thn first game 4-l 5. but came back and won the nnxt two ganws l !i-5 and 15-6. 
Tlw last two games finished the wrong way as Saint Mary's droppnd both gamr.s 10-15 and8-15. 
"We pirk(•d up thP pace. and it was n•a!ly close. The last ganw was a rally score and thPy just broke a'Aay. Srhrondt•r-Hit•k said. 
Saint Marv's finishPd off the W('('KPnd with a 3-0 loss to :\guinas. 
HPgardh•ss of the losses. som,· of' tht• BPll1•s turnnd i.n solid pPrformanrPs. 
1,('ading thos<' solid pPrfor­nrn111:ns. was i"rPshman LPigh Ann MatPsich -who sur­prisPd lwr tnam and thP ('orn­petition. 
"Hvnn she doesn't realize how Wf'll shf' playAd," Schrondnr-Biek said. "She's a very talPnti•d player. 
:vtatrsich mad£1 that adjust­nwnt well. leading the team with l 2 acr.s. 80 digs and 43 kills. 
Matcsich wasn't the only Belle who turm-"!d in a. strong performance this weekend. lfoturning junior Angie Meyers turned in a solid performance as well with 88 digs and 52 kills. leading thti offense. 
"Angola Meyers had an absolutt>ly awesome tourna-

Volleyball 
continued from page 20 

improved over last vi>ar and I think that's the aspPct of' thP gamr. that's probably improvrd for us tlrn most," Brown said. 
Down by two games, tlw Irish ['ought hard to gain r,ontrol and evnnLually top BYU in five games (5-15. 10­15, 15-10, 15-10, 15-10). 
After leaping back into action with a gamP. thrre vic­tory, the Irish !'ell behind by six narly in garrni four. bef'orn striking back hard with a 10-point rally lo take rontrol. 
Kreher led thr match for the Irish with 23 kills and 17 digs. 
"I think that one or the things, definitPly in tlrn BYU matrh, that hPlprd us is our dPpth on the bench. We had pt1orlP conH\ off thP brnrh and play very well and give us lifts at tlw linws wh(•t'l w,• WPrn11·1 playing VPry \Vl'll," Brown said. 
:\iolrl' Dame t>ndPd its wrrkcnd Sundav as il cl<'frat­nd Clemson in ·1hrf'I\ gamPs t15-7. 15-8. 1:i-6) to 1·1inrh the tournamt>nt tillc. 
Boylan racked up 49 assists whilf' Krnlwr narnAd IC, kills and eight digs. 
.Junior Marcie Bomhack also helped the Irish with 13 kills while Girton addrd 15. 
"We wa.lkrd a.way from tlrn tournament with evrn better than we anticipated and I think it's just a great start for the team," said Brown. 
"BYU is legitimately a top­15 team. I think they are very good. It was great for us to go up against a team like that and see what we could do. That win gave us confi-
LIZ LANGfThe Observer 

Senior Jo Jameyson hits U1e ball in Friday's game against Fairfield. The Irish won the match (15-7, 15-7, 15-10). 
dence, especially since we ranked teams in tlrn adidas have a lot of ranked teams Invitational Tournament. No. on our schedule." 20 Mir,higan State. No. (J 
The Irish will have their Nebraska and No. 1 UCLA strength tested this weekend will all travel to thr Joyce as they far,e four nationally Center to facli thn Irish. 
CROSSWORD  HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
ACROSS  .. 27 Edit comedy  51 Wedding sites  CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS  just in case. 000  
1 Ready  scripts?  54 Move like  DAY: Melissa Gilbert, David Keith,  VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Prob­ 
5 Vast extents 10 Break in relations 14 Cassowary  31 Scale member 32 Summon, in a way 33 City ESE of  molasses 55 Joke postscripts? 57 Lean and  Cheryl Richardson, Alex Van Halen, Toni Tennille, Keith Jarrett, Jane Roberts Happy Birthday: Don't try to do everything by yourself. You will need  lems with in-laws may cause bitter disputes at family gatherings. You mustn't let others get involved in your personal life. Get together with friends who are less likely to interfere.  
cousins  Bombay  sinewy  a good sounding board in order to  000  
15 Look for  34 Plowed land  58 Wool source  make the most of any situation that  LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct 22): You can  
16 Sneaking  36 It creates drafts  59 Blow off steam  arises. You need to enlist the help of  make changes to your home if you do  
suspicion 17 Humor in its verse possible form?  38 Disney's middle name 39 Plummet's opposite  60 Word for Yorick 61 Badlands formations 62 Son of Seth  those who have your best interests at heart. This is a year to envision possi­bilities as well as expand your cre­ative interests. You will learn easily if you take courses that will bring you  the work yourself. Overspending on big jobs that require contractors will result in financial setbacks and unfin­ished work when you run out of cash. 00000  
19 Showy flower,  40  Missouri  added knowledge and skills. Your  SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't  
for short 20 Basket twigs 21 Poetic palindrome 22 Wife of Zeus  41 Comedy writing? 44" China" policy 45 Full-service components?  DOWN 1 Defaulter's loss 2 Stern competitor 3 Cure for sick  numbers: 9, 16, 20, 23, 31, 49 ARIES (March 21-April 19): You can expect things around home to be hectic. Friends who have problems may drop by looking for some advice. You may not want to get involved but  expect your partner to pick up on your signals. Spell out your needs if you want them to be met. Don't be so shy. You'll never get what you want if you sit back and wait. 00 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21):  
23 Dernier  46 Gaelic "Gee!"  jokes?  the choice will not be yours. 0000  Don't let depression get to you. Just  
24 Prerevolutionary state 26 Parts of geometry calculations  47 Petit four finisher 50 When it's broken, that's good  4 Fragrant compounds 5 Farm mothers 6 Farm mother 7 Totally gone  TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Have patience with the ones you love. Inse­curities will lead to jealousy and dis­cord in your relationship. Try to sort things out by talking openly and hon­estly about the concerns you have.  because things aren't going according to your plans doesn't mean they can't tum out. Remember, things always happen for a reason. 0000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your communication skills will win  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  8 Coyote State 9 :?t~:~:e's  00 GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't get involved in other people's prob­ you points. You can persuade even the toughest opponents to think your way. You can move into a leadership  
C A A G f I E L  -+--+--+--1  Choice" Oscar winner 10 "Stat!" 11 Like some rumors  29 "Ocupado" 30 Where cures are discovered  43 Bread or butter 44 Pianist's span 46 Getting on  51 Literary collections 52 City near Sparks  lems. You will find it hard to be faith­ful to your mate if you end up going to most functions by yourself. Oppor­tunities for romance will be plentiful. 00000 CANCER (June 21-July 22): Pur­ position at organizational functions. 000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't put yourself out on a limb for someone else. You've worked too hard to get your life back in order,  
12 Four Freedoms  31 Stage  47 Caucus state  53 Tu-144 and  sue your creative dreams. You can't  and now is not the time to risk every­ 
l!ll!IPl!'l-=--1---:-+~~;i -=-+=+=-"_._ --=-+=+-+­11-R--1 r-:-1--:--1-,V,.,.-i-,A--1 ..,.,-t-,-,+,l,,..+-,,Pe-t D E  subject 13 "Behold!" 18 Uris hero 24 1997 Fonda role 25 Fab 26 W.W. I French soldier 27 Seek spare change 28 Witticism capital?  32 metabolism 35 Eel look-alikes 36 _ de Bologne (park west of Paris) 37 Grammy category 39 Hillary supporters 42 Flamethrower fuel  48 Slinky, basically others 49 Browning's 56 Actress "Rabbi Ben Thurman Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  stop doing the things you love just thing. 000 because they aren't necessarily lucra­PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): tive. If you give up on them now, they Romantic opportunities will unfold never will pay off. 000 through creative projects you pursue. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Those Let your intuition lead you in the around you will be on edge and dis­right direction. It's time for you to agreeable. Make sure it isn't due to start getting back to the things you something you said or did earlier. You enjoy the most. 000 might want to do something special Birthday Baby: You need to keep your life well-balanced and harmonious. The better you feel about yourself and your surroundings, the more you will be able to extend a helping hand to others. You are happiest when you can make a  
difference to those who can't do for themselves.  
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com,  
eugenialastcom, astromate.com.)  

Monday, September 4, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
'J 1997 IWI Amel\DIUist by uru..mal Press S,ynd1ute MoM! MOM' Guess WHAT!'.'  MISS o'MALLEY SAID MARCUS AND I cout.D BE "THE A·V BoYS FoR OUR CLASS  AUt>10-V1SUAL. WE'LL BE IN CHARGE oF SETTING UP THE EQUIPMENT FoR SHoW­tNG FILMS ANO STIJF'F 1N CLASS. IT'LL BE A LoT of  www.loXlrot.oom WE'RE RUNNING 'THE SuRRovND SOUND CABLES ToMoRROW.  REMIND ME To START S<:REENtNG MY PHoNE CALLS AGAIN. ' 

WORI<, BUT ! TH1NK IT'LL THIS 'FALL.' BE FUN. \ \ WELL, I'M SI.IRE 
--'t'OU'RE UP To
C 
~ ll-lETA~, 
> tr­

) ND Quick Weight Loss Program 
•reeult not typical 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

FOURTH AND INCHES 
WE'RE GOING TO GET l:'.ILLEC. WE DON'T STAND A CHANCE 


Fox TROT 
I KNEW
(MONDAY) 
WE WOULD 
WIN. I'VE BEEN BEHIND THEM 
THE WHOLE TIME 
11-0. ORANGE 
BOWL 
HERE WE 

TOM KEELEY 
OH MAN, 
THIS 
SPECIALTY SAL.AC 

BILL AMEND 
TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 

(30@>~ 
-Swea.+ owo."f -tho~ ca.xce.ss pound!> -Sto.nd ur'lder the. blQ~,n~ ho+ ~un +or 4 l/z. hovr.s •
--="'.-----.~.-.--..,....~_.~rr.., 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN  46556  
Enclosed is $85 for one academic year  
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester  

. Name Address------------------­
City _______State ____ Zip______ 

Perfect Putting 

The Saint Mary's golf team finished eighth out of 15 teams at the Ferris Slate Invitational this weekend.
PORTS 
page 16 

O
THE 

page 20 BSERVER Monday, September 4, 2000 
------~~~--=----=--=-_:___.::___~================================================================== 
VOLLEYBALL 

Cougars upset highlights tournament win 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
Sport:s W ritcr 

No t r n I ) a nw v o 11 Py ba 11 jumpNJ into th,• 2000 snason with a lirst place finish in thP Shamrot'k Invitational tour­nanwnt. inl'luding a win ovPr No. 15 Brigham Young Un tVPrsitv. 
-
ThP lr0ish. now :{-0. also toppPd Fairlkid and Clr•mson 
to sPrurP tlw tournanwnt. 
SPnior co-captain llPnisP Bovian was namP<l '.v1Vl' of Lb,; tournanwnt whilt• l'Pllow co-l'aptain Chri!-.ti (;irto11 and junior Kristy Krt>hPr wer!' named to thl' all-tourrrnnwnl tPam. 
"I think it was panirularly imponanl for all th<' rrPsh­nwn to gPt on th<· l'loor and play and w1• W('rl' abln to do that. You'n, alwavs VPrv vPrv 1wrvous l'or tlw lirsl tinll'. as ;, f'n\shman stPpping oul on thP f'loor so it was good to gPt those lirst mntr-h jia,,rs ow!r with." said hPad roa<·h DPbbiP Brown. 
Notrn Danw kickPd off th!' Wt'f'kend Fri<lav with a thrr,r.­ganw victory ;)Vl'r Fairf'ir.ld !15-7. 15-7. 15-101. 
With a 2-0 !Pad going into ganw th rPI' agai nsl thP Slags. LhP Irish l'f'll bPhind :'i-1. Nolrt• Damt' thPn rallif1d for 10 straight points Lo gain thP !Pad and <'V<'nluallv tlrn win. 
c;irton rarkPd tlp 14 kills for LhP Irish whilP KrehPr addl'd 11. Boylan Ind Notrp llamP ol'!'PnsivPly with 37 assists whilP also aiding tlw Irish dPl'PnSt\ with 10 digs. Sophomort' JaniP Aldnrnt!' toppPd hPr cari\1•r high with 1!i digs. 
"OvPrall. ovr.r th<• wr.,,kPnd 

our of'fi>nSI' was vnrv. ,r.rv 
sLrnng. Our dPfonsP h,~s really 
see VOLLEYBALL/page 18 


WOMEN'S SOCCER 
--Undefeated Irish look to fine tune play 
llv KEVIN BERCHOU 

SJ;Urt.s -),ittr 
It's hard to find manv coa('hes of undPft•atNl tPams \\;ho aren't l\ntirely t•cstn.til' with their t11ams' play. but Notre Danrn womnn's soccPr head coach Handy Waldrum is sul'h a man. 
Evf•n aflHr watching his Lroops whip lh1) Tulsa llurrirarws and Provid,rncr. Lady Friars by scorns of 2-0 and 5-1 resp1•ctively. Waldrum still li•P.ls the ]-0 frish wonrnn hav!' a long way to go. 
"Wei have some pr<'tty impor­tant work to do," Waldrum said. "WP-need to a better job r,on­verting our chanr.es around the goal." 
Noire Danw strugg!Pd against Tulsa in thr, first half'. and for a while it looked as if' the Golden llurriranes might pull of an upsPt. 
Aftn /'ailing to scorn on their first 23 chances. thr. Irish finally took a lead they would never relinquish in the game's 69th minute. Senior All-t\merir,an Annr. Makinen buried a feed from sophornorn Ashley Dryer to get the Irish on thn board. then tallied again just minutes later -launching a rocket shot from 20 yards out for an unas­sisted goal, her third of thr. sea­son. 

Dr.spite the favorable out­r,ome, Waldrum was not at all pleased. After outshooting Tulsa by a count of 35-2, Waldrurn felt his team had been wastnful in not scoring more. 
"We put up big shot numbers and we only have two goals to show for it," he said. "It's just not a good situation to miss that many chances." 
Waldrum was also dneply conr,errnid with finding the right mix of players. 
After blending so well last year. an Irish squad derninished by graduation has at times struggled in working a tahmt1-1d freshmen class into the lineup. 
Waldrum is hopeful that tlrn players will help to distinguish themselves. 
"Right now. we arc still not rnsolved in terms of what our starting team is and that's the problem. We can't even get vet-
see SOCCER/page l G 
Irons 1nsp1res Irish 
1)id anymw happPn to ratl'l1 that 01w s1wi<'s during tlw ganw on Saturday? 
No, not tlw onP that l'r•,ttun•d a suct·nssrul fourth-down ('Otl­VPrsion and was tlwn rapp<'d by a 17-yard .Julius .Jonl'S touch­dovvn run wlrnrl' lw mad!' lik,, a pinball. bounring off<'V<'l"V dPfPnd,;r in sight. 
.-\nd no. notlh<' orn' wlwn' Arnaz Battin. mak­ing his first 1'vtw start at quar­tPrback. took his team 70 vards on sr,vnn plays in just 2:0') Lo get thl1 Irish on thr, board bPJ'orn tlw half. 
ThesP WPl'I\ both grPal strr.tdws and Pssr,ntial in Notn• Dam1•·s 24-10 win owr TPxas A&M. a ganw that was playPd sonwwhPn' on thn surf'ac.P of' thP sun. 
I lowl'vt1r. anothr.r. all of whirh vou couldn't SPP unlPss you had a littlP portable TV sumnwd up. at least l'or mP. thP attitudP ol' this Irish rootball tr,am. 
We all saw-captain Grant Irons rnnrn oll' thn field due to dehy<lration ,.1 A&M's long drivr, to opPn ~lw sncond hall'. That's wlrnn it all startPd. 
Instea<l or backing down bncausn it lost one or iL'i !Pad­ers, thP Irish dr,fonsr. str,ppPd up. Facing a first-and-goal from tlrn Irish 1-yard line, A&M lost yards on first down. 
They gained a coup!P back but failed to gr,t back to th<' original line of scrimmagr,, let alone crnr.k the goal lin<', on second down. 
Third down? Nothing <loin'. 
All of a suddr,n, it was rourth down from the 1. an<l thn Aggies faced a dilemma. Kick a fir,ld goal and concr,de your offense can't punch it in. or go for it, and if you come up short. r.oncede any momnnlum you'vp built. 
A&M coach H.C. Slocum dncidPd to go all or nothing. Thr, Irish dd1msP, f'atigul'U aftnr bPing on thr, field for more than half a quarter. optPd for nothing, stuf'fing lhe /\ggin running game l'or anotlrnr loss. 

see FOX/page 17 

~??__, Volleyball vs. Bradley Volleyball
w

~ vs. Nebraska Wednesday, 7 p.m. ar Bethel
..,-., '

SPORTS e • 
Cross Councry 

Friday, 4 p.m. Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. 
at Valparai~o Inv.
ATA 
Saturday, 10 a.m. 

vs. Santa Clara vs. Nebraska vs. Alma
'.ff '§IJIC
Friday, 7:30 p.m. ... Saturday, I :30 p.m. Today, 4 p.ni. 
~

GLANCE • 



