
Mystikal 
Rape awareness 
Check out the new Mystikal album, /,et 's Gel 

Tuesday
In a unanimous decision. the C/,C passed a 
Ready, his latest release since his departure · 
resolution callinq for increased educational 
from No Limit Records. 
programs about sexual assault. 
OCTOBER 24, 
Scene . page 12 
News . page 3 
2000 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIV NO. 40 


TOPPING THE MOUNTAINEERS 

David Givens (left) and Tony Fisher (right) celebrate the 42-28 victory over West Virginia Saturday. The victory was Notre Dame's first in an opponent's stadium since the 1998 win against Boston College. See the Irish Insider for details; 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


ND, SMC students face fines after bust 
ByTIM LOGAN s~nior SraffWmer 

Most of the 147 minors cited in the Oct. 13 raid of Finnigan's Irish Pub will face community service and fines from St. Joseph County, and Notre Dame students will likely receive additional punishment from the Universitv. 
Nearly ·everyone who received a citation for being a minor in a tavern is a student at either Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. Police cited six for possession of false iden­tification and three were arrested and booked at the county jail for various charges of resisting arrest, public intoxication and minor consumption of alcohol. 
Most of those students were given "pretrial diversion" which prevents the incident from being put on their record if they pay a $220 court fee and complete 40 hours of community service. This is the Prosecutor's Office's standard procedure for minors charged with consuming alcohol. 
Minor in a tavern is a Class C misdemeanor, which can carry up to a $500 fine and six months in jail. as well as loss of driver's license. The students were not punished that severely, but some still called the sanction harsh. 
"I think it's pretty heavy," said Merideth Pierce, a Saint Mary's sophomore who was cited. "The community service is heavy for me being a college student." 
Notre Dame will likely also discipline its underage stu­dents who were at Finnigan's. No decisions have been made yet about sanctions, according to Jeff Shoup. director of Residence Life, but the students will have individual disciplinary hearings in the coming weeks. 
Punishments will vary depending on a student's prior record and what they were cited for at Finnigan's. Shoup said it was hard to generalize about sanctions. 
"When you're talking about Finnigan's, there's a lot of different circumstances," Shoup said. "People who were drinking, not drinking, in possession of fake IDs and so on." 
see RAID/page 4 
Students run Chicago Marathon, have 'incredible experience' 
By ERIN LaRUFFA  marathon in just over four hours. "It just sounds like such  Both Maimona and Suddes participated on cross-country  12 miles and felt I could go on forever," Suddes said.  They kept me going when I was at my worst," Deye said.  
Associate News Editor  an enormous accomplishment."  teams  during  high school,  Suddes traveled to Chicago  Notre Dame alumni and fans  
During her senior year of  although neither run competi­ last Friday. Five of her friends  lined the sidewalks and they  
Most Notre Dame students  high school, Maimona raised  tively at Notre Dame.  joined her there to cheer her  cheered for Deye as she ran by  
traveled significant distances  over  $3000  to  run  in  a  To prepare for the 26.2-mile  on.  She  ran  most  ol'  the  in Fighting Irish shorts.  
last week  over fall break. A  marathon that was a  fundrais­ run, Suddes follow1\d a training  marathon on  her own, though  "/\II the people  on  the side­ 
handful of them even did so on  er  for  program from  she did  run  the last six miles  lines who recognized my Notre  
foot.  leukemia  the  Chicago  with her sister. who flew in  Dame apparel cheered me  on  
Several Notre Dame students spent this past Sunday running in the L!1Salle Bank Chicago  research. However. although she  "You never know what your body can do until  Marathon's orficial Web site. The pro­ from Conn. to watch the marathon. Like Suddcs, Maimona also  as I ran by. It was nice to cre­ate a bond with them," Deyo said.  
Marathon, a 26.2 mile run through the city. Completing  donated the money, she  you run a marathon. "  g r a rn involved four  had family support during her run. Maimona's father traveled  Maimona also enjoyed meet­ing the other runners.  
the race put them among an elite group of runners. Only  was unable to actually  Emily Deye  months of running four  from Ohio and went to a few different mile markers to cheer  "Everyone was very friendly," Maimona said, adding that  
one  half  of  1  percent  of  run  in  the  Notre Dame senior  days  a  week  his daughter on.  'marathons arc very unique in  
Americans  can  claim  a  marathon  and  cross  In addition to cheering family  relation  to  other  sporting  
marathon finish.  because of an  training one  and  friends,  the  runners  events.  
"It was an incredible experi­ injury.  day per week.  enjoyed support from the hun­ "What other single event can  
ence, so I want to do it again,"  Maimona  One  of  hrr  dreds of thousands of specta­ have  over  30,000  partici­ 
said  Catherine  Suddes,  a  decided  to  run  another  running days consisted of a  tors that gathered along the  pants?"  Maimona  said.  
sophomore who completed the  marathon as a way to make up  "long run," which increased in  marathon route. Suddes and  "Anyone can  participate. Only  
marathon in about five hours.  for the one she missed.  distance each week until she  Maimona said.  People in the  will and determination, not tal­ 
"I wasn't rnallv concerned  "I had raised this money and  did her longest run of 20 miles  crowd will often pir.k out a spe­ ent and skill, are necessary."  
with time," Suddes said. "It  a  lot of the money had come  on Oct. 1.  cific runner and start cheering  "You never know what your  
was always something I had  from friends and family  ...  I  "Bunning to  me  has always  for that runner, according to  body  can  do  until you  run  a  
wanted to do."  sort of wantrd to  run  for the  berm 99 percent mental. There  senior Emily Deye, who rnn the  marathon," Dcye said.  
"I always thought it was a  kids [suffering from leukemia]  were some  davs when I ran  race  in just under four and  a  
great goal," said sophomore  and do something in return,"  three miles and· just wanted to  half hours.  Maureen Smithe contributed  
Allison Maimona, who ran the  Maimona said.  die, and some days when I ran  "They were really inspiring.  to this report.  



page: 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, October 24, 2000 
INS,IDE COLUMN 


Adam's story 
t\c'.am was a junior at Washington and Lee 
Uni~ersity. lie was smart. He could make you 
laugh out loud even when he was making fun of 
you. lie was tall and had a beautiful smile. Adam 
was just lik1• you and me. 
Saturday night, on his way 
home from a fraternity 
party, Adam was killed in a 
car accident. Huports haven't 
confirmed whether alcohol 
was involved, but as my Dad 
told me last night on the 
phone, it doesn't matter. The 
bott:m1 line is the same. 
Adam won't graduate from 
college. lie won't have 
Christmas with his family 
ever again. fie won't get 
married. lie won't have chil­
dren. He won't celebrate his 
21st birthday this January. 
Adam was always a rebel. 
lie drove fast and when rd 

tell him to slow down, he'd smile at me and say, 
"Laura. don't you worry about me so much. I'll be 
fine." I could scream now thinking about those 
words. but like most of us. he thought he was 
invi11ciblc. 

Last night I couldn't fall asleep. I kept picturing 
the trips our families took together when we were 
young. We went on his grandparents' houseboat 
for one weekend each summer. In fact one of 
tho!iO weekends, our parents told us we'd carried 
on a conversation in our sleep about oil prices 
and distribution. We were in sync even in our 
slcrp. 

l .hought about high school -the retreats. the 
dances and the parties. I thought this past sum­
mer -my Dad's 50th birthday party, the wonder­
ful .~exington bar scene and Adam's visits to my 
house only a short drive away in our small town. 
We were supposed to be the ones to make it out 
of Clark County, Kentucky. We were going to Law 
School. We were going to make a difference in the 
world. 

We were, we were. we were. But we're not. 
I'm telling Adam's story for two reasons. First of all, I hope someone will read this who drove 20 miles over the speed limit on the way back from fall break. I hope next time you'll think about Adam. and slow down. I know I will. 
I hope someone reads this who will drink this we,~kend and think about getting behind the wheel. When you sit in that car, think about your Mom or your Dad getting a phone call at nine o'clock the next morning. Think about your broth­er or sister who idolizes you. 
Second and more importantly. I'm telling Ad,1m's story because I miss him. 
I hate thinking about his funeral this week and seeing him in a coffin. I hate thinking about going back home this Christmas without him. I hate thinking about seeing his family with only three children. 
I hate that rdidn't say goodbye, or tell him what he meant to me. or explained to him what a won­derful person he'd become over the past 20 years. 
Last year, I read a column by a student whose father had recently died. Ile said calling mom and dad was the item on his "To Do List" that could alV1ays be put off until tomorrow. Until it was too lat,i. 
I never thought this would happen, so I didn't call Adam last week. I never imagined he wouldn't be there next summer, so I never told him how he was a brother to me. 
!'lease don't let yourself make the same mistake I made. Call your parents. Write your brothers and sisters. Tell your friends what they mean to you. 
And please, drive safe. 

the views expressed in the inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Maureen Smithe Sam Derheimer Helena Payne Graphics Anne Marie Mattingly Katie Annis 
Sports Production Molly McVoy Kerry Smith Viewpoint 
Lab Tech Kurt Bogaard Shannon Benncrc 
The Observer (USPS S9'J 2-1000) i, publish«! Monday ,hrough F,iday exccp• Juriug cx~m •rid vaca,ion period,. The Observer is a member of th, Associated Press. All reproduction righu a.re reserved, 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
"!fwe are going to be  "It's important to  "Nobody should be  "My main goal is just  
a great University in  understand we're all  going through life  to get a degree.  
the very best sense,  different and have  counting calories and  Footballs OK. but I'm  
then we need to be  different cultures  counting fat grams."  thinking ofbigger  
competitive for the  within us. "  and better things."  
very best faculty. "  Jocelyn Antonelli  
Akmaral Omarova ·  manager of nutrition and  Gerome Sapp  
Father Edward Malloy  Sa;nt Ma,y's  safety  Sophomore strong safety  
University president  diversity board president  
OUTSIDE THE DOME  Compiled from U-Wire reports  

Injured police halt Ohio State party turned riot 
COLUMBUS, Ohio the ground and being thrown. It A Saturday night riot resulted in even got to the point where people the injuring of three Columbus were running into the houses and
"People were throwing bottles. 
police officers, the damage of two throwing spices," shn said.
and then kegs. and then fence
police cruisers and the overturning For a while, the police backed off. of a 1992 Saturn, according to a stakes were getting pulled up according to student Matt Bussard. police report. Three individuals "For a while the police went to
out ofthe ground and being 
were arrested, but Columbus police the corners of the street. I think
thrown.,.

have yet to disclose the names. they were trying to let the situation A party turned ugly when bike calm down. but the helicopter that police showed up at the house, was flying overhead and shining a
Christi Hawk 

according to student Jessica light on the party; it really seemed
Ohio State University student
Adams. She said police were to keep people upset," he said. already in the area because of an By 2 a.m. Sunday, the party was unrelated fight down the street, but so out of control that cruisers and
the glass.when bike police showed up a the officers from around Columbus
Student Christi Hawk said bottles 
party. some of the members of the were called in to restore order,
weren't the only things being 
party began throwing bottles at thrown at the party. according to police. Police supervi­them. "People were throwing bottles. sors fired wooden projectiles, Three police officers were injured known as knee-knockers, to dis­
and then kegs. and then fence by the glass bottles. One was cut by stakes were getting pulled up out of perse the crowd. 
DEPAUW UNIVERSITY 
School blocks more MP3 websites 
GREENCASTLE, Ind. 
Students are going through MP3 withdrawal ­again. DePauw University updated its block against Napster, a popular MP3 download Web site Oct. 15, and blocked similar sites iMesh and Scour from the University network. According to Mike Moore, director of computer operations. the sites were consuming a significant portion of the network's bandwidth, limit­ing the use of the Internet for academic purposes. "For example, the library can't get government documents to download because the network is busy," Moore said. In an e-mail sent to the DePauw community Wednesday. Moore announced the block, explaining it was "the best short term solution for the greatest number of people.'' Moore said computing services is looking into an option that will allow students limited use of the blocked sites without intruding on the net­work's academic function. Through the use of "band­width shapers," computer operations will be able to set priority for traffic on the network. 
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS 
Students rally for women's rights 
CHAMPAIGN. Ill. 

Men and women gathered on the south patio of the Union at the University of Illinois on Friday. holding posters that read "Hape Whistles = Pacifiers" and "Women's Rights are Human Rights. Not Special Rights!" The crowd cheered as Brooke Anderson, master of cere­monies, stepped up to the microphone and welcomed supporters to the Women's Direct Action Collective's Rally for Women's Rights. "We organized the rally both to demonstrate the inadequacy of measures taken by the administration to curb violence and to demand that the administration include us in developing comprehensive proposals to provide better services for women and to end sexism in all aspects of University life," Anderson said. Kurt Hilgendorf. a junior in communications. said he learned that the situation for women on campus is more dangerous than most people expect. "They face pressures everyday that men don't face," he said. "So many women are being assaulted on campus. and we need to do something about it." 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWea!her"' forecast for daytime conditions ;md high temperatures 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Oct. 24. 
Wedn~sday Q, 
~

Thurs~ay , ... ,,, 
~ 
FRONTS: 
~ ~
......... 

0 2000 AccuWeather. Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
,,,..,,... 

® (0 D D D D D D 
High Low Shower• Rain T0 atorma: Flurrkl• snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy CloUdy 
Allanta 71 53 Detro,! 68 51 Orlando 77 60 Boston 64 46 Los Angeles 71 53 St. Louis 77 57 Chicago 73 57 Miami 78 69 San Francisco 68 53
4,Q,~9.c6}Q q ~ u 
Dallas 75 62 New Orleans 78 62 Seattle 55 64 
Showers T-s1orms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl Cloudy Cloudy 
Denver 59 30 New York 64 53 Washington DC 69 51 
Via As:-,ocia(ed P'ffJ!IS Gra,,tiicsN91 


Tuesday, October 24, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ND trustee Thomas Labreque dies at 62 
Special lo The Observer 
Thomas Labrecque, a mem­ber of the Board of Trustees of the Universitv of Notre Dame. died Oct. 16 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York City at age 62. 
/\ Notre Dame trustee since 1994, Labrecque was the for­mer chairman and president of the Chase Manhattan Corporation. lie joined Chase in 1964 and rose quickly through the ranks, becoming a member of the management committee in 1976, president and chief operating officer in 1981. and chairman and CEO in 1990. Afler retiring from Chase in June 1999, Labrer,que served as chair­man of Chase·s International Advisory Council. 
In addition to serving on Notre Dame's board, Labrecque was a director of Pfizer Inc., a past president of' the International Monetary Conference and The Bankers Roundtable, and an active member of the Business Council and the Coundl of Competitiveness. He also served as a trustee of The Hrookings Institution and the Trilateral Commission. a director of the International Rescue Committee and a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. 
Labrecque was graduated from Villanova University in I 960 and spent four years in the U.S. Navy, rising to the rank of full lieutenant. 
Labrecque is survived by his wife, Sheila, four chil­dren, five grandchildren, three brothers and four sis­ters. 
A niemorial service will be held Nov. 8 at St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York City. 
In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions can be made to: The Thomas G. Labrecque Leadership Institute, Red Bank Catholic J-ligh School, 112 Broad Street, Red Bank, 
N.J.  07701;  or  Memorial  
Sloan-Kettering  Cancer  
Center.  Lung  Cancer  

Hesearch Fund. Box E, 1275 York Ave., New York, N.Y. 
10021. 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
CLC: Reform sexual assault programs 
educated about this in all res­encourages ''efforts to raise
. Unanimously 

idence halls," she said. aw·areness."approved resolution Having the discussion in a Members debated the exact calls for programs more casual residence hall nature of the resolution. and 
setting would also encourage some were concerned that
in dorms 

discussion, which is difficult making a specific request in Washington Hall, Reali could be too restrictive on By TIM LOGAN said. University administrators. 
Senior News \X1rirer There But every­was also 
one support­

"We should find more
discussion

The Campus Life Council ed the 
of how to ways to talk about it in a
Monday joined the chorus of motion in 
encourage

groups calling !'or increased setting where it's spirit.
dialogue on

educational programs about 'Tm all for 
comfortable for both 
sexual

sexual assault. passing
assault sexes."
Members unanimously some sort of 
between

approved a resolution asking resolution 
sexes, and

the Office of Student Affairs t o d a y
Jay Smith
some mem­

to extend presentations on encouraging
bers voiced student government chief of staff
the topic in residence halls. action on 
concern

While the resolution does this issue,"
that dorm

not request a specific pro­said assis­
presentations would

gram. its authors said they mean tant vice president of resi­
that there was no inter-gen­
hoped it would lead to sexual dence life Bill Kirk. "This
der discussion.

assault presentations like the 
topic is not going to go away." 

"It's a very complex issue
ones currently given to fresh-The motion comes on the
and there'smen 011 
heels of a University decision 

a lot of
diversity 
to adjust the way it handles

silence on
issues and "We thought it would be a 
sexual assaults. Earlier this

it because
alcohol. 

good idea to have stu­year, Notre Dame announced
it's a com­
Currently. 
it would distribute pamphlets

dents educated about this plex issue,"
incoming 
about the hearing processsaid Jay

freshmen in all residence halls. " 
and student rights. and hire

Smith, stu•
must attend an advisor to help students 

a presenta­dent gov­
Luciana Reali who have been assaulted. The
tion on sexu­ernment 
University also created an

al assault in Lewis Hall senator chief of 
advisory committee of faculty,

Washington staff. "We should find 
students and administrators.

Hall. but Lewis Hall senator Luciana more ways to talk about it in as well as representatives Reali said dorm presentations a setting where it's comfort­from Saint Mary's and Sex Offense Services. 
would be more effective. able for both sexes." "We thought it would be a The resolution does not It was the first resolution 
good idea to have students specify programs. but rather the CLC has passed this year. 
uf.l1sure .about what ta do after fall break??? 
Tom Dfril~ca
et suo CJo your tr11nK1ng ror you . 
october FJJ 10 m st:fpan center, $5 
Return to Me
tnursday 10 30 friday and saturday 8 &lt:a m TOT oeoaR!olo, $2 
The GodfatherhTrilQay . . t ursdo910_30 m '~: . frtday and saturday 8 p Tgg,debartolo, $2 
Acousticafe
thurscJay rcf'fortune, free 
E 
E 
E 
:::> 
Q. ,/< 
~~ '(" 

~ 
a. 
C 
.. :it/< 

-l .-· .-· 
VI 
: •"

C 
":-. w 
-----:,~ 
. ·:~ 

, . -y:i'. 
page 4 =========================T.:::'h::e::O::b::se:::rv=e=r~.~C=AM~~P~U~S~N;E~W~S~==================·~ru~e~sd~a~y~,O~ct~o~b~cr~2~4~,~2~00~0 
R,tid 

continued from page l 
In large raids in the past, such as ones on Bridget McGuire's and the Irish Connection in 1998 University punishment ha~ included a combination of comrr. unity service and fines. 
No deci­sion has yet 
each student who was cited, however. 
This disparity in punishment is a result of differences in the school's student codes. Du Lac states that students who break local, state or federal laws may be subject to disci­plinary action. but the Saint Mary's student handbook does not permit the College to take action against students for 
off-campus 
offenses, 
been made abou't sanc­tions for stu­ "We have expressed long time concern about  The raid happened around 1  
dent-athletes  underage drinking off  a.m.  on  the  
who were at the ba.r, according to  campus. We ·ve always been in discussion with  Friday before fall break.  
Bill  Kirk,  local authorities."  Officers  
assistant  from  the  
vice presi­dent for Hesidence  Bill Kirk assistant vice president of  Indiana State Excise Police and  
L  i  f  e  Residence Life  the  South  

Baslsetball players Troy Murphy, Tom Timmermans and Jere Macura were cited as was football player Gerom~ Sapp. Decisions on possible sanclions, including suspen­sion, will be made by the Ol'licll of Student Affairs, not the Athletic Department, Kirk said, 
Saint Mary's student-ath­letes -and there were several at th1i bar -may be subject to disciplinary action from their coaches, but the College will not sanction any of its stu­dent, who were at the bar, according to Linda Timm, vice president for Student Affairs. Timm will send a letter to 
Wednesday, November 8 Friday -Saturday, November 10 -I I at 8 pm 
Sunday, November 12, 2000 at 2:30 pm 
Little Theatre 
s,,., .,,,,,,c,11,,,0 
1M8_~,fR.. 
~NOTll.l' OAll/l, IN 
For ticket information contact the Saint Marys Box Office at 
284-4626 

Bend Police 
Department raided the bar, which had its liquor license suspended. There had been numerous complaints of underage drink­ing at the bar, a popular stu­dent nightspot, especially on Thursdays. 
Some of those complaints came from Notre Dame, 
"We have expressed long time concern about underage drinking off-campus," Kirk said. "We've always been in discussion with local authori­ties." 
Material from the South Bend Tribune was used in this report. 
Kroc Institute receives $350,000 
cacy and practice of nonviolent 
Special 10 Th" Observer 

resistance as a religious imper­ative. It also explores the phe­The University of Notre Dame nomenon of "lived religion" byhas received a $350,000 grant examining how religious tradi­
from The Rockefeller 
tions move from sacred scrip­Foundation for the newly estab­ture or traditional norm to thelished Program in Religion, -practical principles which guide Conflict and Peacebuilding in specific decisions and actionsthe University's Kroc Institute taken in the context of violentf o r connict.
International 

" T h e
P e a c e 

"The Rockefeller Visiting 
RockefellerStudies. 
Fellows grant comes at a Visiting
The grant 

Fellows
will support critical time in the life of 
g r a n t
Rockefeller 

our new program ... " 
comes at a
Foundation 

critical time
Resident 

in the life of 
Scott Appleby
Fellowships our new

in the director of Kroc Institute 
program in
Humanities 

religion,
for research 

conflict andand examination of the multiple 
peacebuilding," said Scott
roles played by particular reli­Appleby, director of the Krocgious traditions in con£1ict set­Institute and professor of histo­tings around the world. 
ry.

The new program explores "As a result of the Rockefeller · the complex role of religion in Foundation's generosity. we willcontemporary conflict.5 ranging 
be able to bring to campusfrom the legitimization or 
scholars of religion, as well assacralization of violence, to par­
Muslim, Christian, Jewish,
ticipation in conflict mediation 
llindu and Buddhist leaders
and reconciliation. to the advo­from around the world, to par­tici pate in extensive dialogue 
and study of religion's capacity 
for resolving conflict. for 
dcl'ending human rights and 
promoting tolerance, and for 
helping societies divided by eth­
nic and religious violence 
rebuild shattered relationships, 
economies and civil society." 
The grant complements a 
previous grant from the Ilenry 
H. Luce Foundation. which established a Luce Professorship in Heligion, Conflict and Peacebuilding in the Kroc Institute, 
Established in l 986, the Kroc Institute conducts educational research and outreach pro: grams on international peace, The institute's programs emphasize international norms and institutions; religious, philo­sophical and cultural dimen­sions of peace; conflict transfor­mation; and social, economic and environmental justice. 
The Rockefeller Foundation is a knowledge-based, global foundation with a commitment to enrich and sustain the lives and livelihoods of poor and excluded people throughout the world. 
. ',/:t,., 

RETIREMENT INSU_RANCE MUTUAL FUNDS T8UST SERVICES TUITION FINANCIN6 1
f ~,,,,, 
While TIAA-CREF invests for the long term, it's nice to see performance 

like this. 

TIAA-CREF has delivered impressive results like these by combining two disciplined investment strategies. 
.;:?••£6:tk ri~t· 
·•·•9theraccaunt;
Perfor  -·  ······•  .,.  
-t  ,.  
~  .  



CREF GROWTH ACCOUNT3 t 

In our CREF Growth Account, one of many CREF vari­26.70% 27.87% 26.60% able annuities, we combine active management with SINCE INCEPTIONenhanced indexing. With two strategies, we have 1 YEAR 5 YEARS AS OF 6/30100 6130100 4/29/94 two ways to seek out performance opportunities­..·.. . .. helping to make your investments work twice as hard. This approach also allows Combine this team approach with our low expensesEXPENSE RATIO us to adapt our investments and you'll see how TIAA-CREF stands apart from the competition. Call and find out how TIAA-CREFCREFGROWTH INDUSTRY to different market A((OUNJ AVERAG£ conditions, which is can work for you today and tomorrow. especially important during0.32%1 2.09% 2 volatile economic times. Ensuring the future 1.800.842.2776 for those who shape it.'M www.tiaa-cref.orgii For more wmplete information on our securities products, please call L800 842.2733, ext 5509. to request prospectuses Read them carefully before you invest. 1. TIAA·C REF expenses reflect the waiver of aportion of the Funds' investment management fees, guaranteed until July 1, 2003. 2. Source: Morningstar. Inc. 6130100, tracking 939 average large-cap growth annuity funds. 3. Due to current market volatility, our securities products' performance today may be less than shown above. The investment results shown for CREF Growth variable annuity reflect past performance and are not indicative of future rates of return. These returns and the value of the principal you have invested will fluctuate, so the shares you own may be more or less than their original price upon redemption. • TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the CREF and TIAA Real Estate van able annuities. • Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component. mutual funds and tuition savings agreements. • TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities. • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. • Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03  


--·--------· -· ---· --------------:-----------­

Tuesday, October 24, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Soldiers delay ballot count: Election returns were interrupted and soldiers barri­caded streets Monday in Ivory Coast, where an opposition candidate was predicting victo­ry in presidential elections intended to restore civilian rule. The country's elecl.oral commis­sion headquarters dosed around midday to give employees a break after more than 24 hours of ballot counting. officials said. 
Stars support U.N. projects: 
International celebrities including boxing great Muhammad Ali, actor Michael Douglas and former Spice Girl Geri Halliwell gathered al ihe United Nations on Monday to discus:; using their names lo tight poverty, AIDS and war. Since 1954, wben the late comedian Danny Kaye became the first goodwill ambas­sador for the U.N. Children's Fund, leading pcrsonalilies in the arts, sports and public life have been traveling around the world adver­tising the work of the united Nations. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. may scrutinize airport workers: 
Security personnel at the nation's airports would be required to undergo more extensive background checks and receive added training under legislation Congress cleared on Monday. Under the bill. all airport screeners and those with access to secure areas would be required to undergo a criminal history record check starting one year after the bill's enactment. 
Galoob fined for dangerous toys: A 
San Francisco company has agreed to pay a $400,000 penalty to settle charges that it failed to timely report defects in dolls that caused injuries to children and adults. Galoob Toys' hard plastic "Sky Dancers" dolls have propeller­like wings and can fly in unpredictable direc­tions, the commission said. Galoob received 150 reports of injuries caused by the toys, including temporary blindness. Others included a mild concussion. a broken rib. broken teeth and facial cuts that required stitches. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Inmate holds, rapes female guard: 
An inmate accused of raping a female guard and holding her hostage for two hours said he had been criticized by employees at the Shelby County Jail and denied medical attention. Troy Dale Terry, 32, held the guard captive in a bath­room Sunday. The woman, a wife and mother of three, violated jail policy when she escorted Terry to the restroom by herself. He overpow­ered her and used her own handcuffs to restrain her. said Lt. David Fisher of the Shelby County Sheriffs Department. 
Market Watch 1 0/23 

Dow 
10,271.72 +45.13
]ONES 
CompositeUp: Same: Volume:
1.261 496 

I, 181,5 I 6,544 
AMEX: 915.85 <.::r.,.2!4i Nasdaq: 3468.69 -14.45 NYSE: · 642,29 +0, 12 .,\,i':,g\ S&P 500: 1395.77 -1.66 TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURlTI' %CHANGE $GAIN PRJCE MICROSOFr COI\I' (MSrT) -4.71 -3 (16 62.12 CEN ELECTRIC (GE) -4.7~ -2,50 ·W.7S HONEYWELL INTL(HON) • ,8.57 t-.'i,'J. 49.95 CISCO SYSTHIS ICSCO) -2.)0 -IAJ 55.88 !NHL CORI' (INTC) t-0.57 ,0.24 43.~I 
ISRAEL 

. Officials still seeking Middle East peace deal 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 

With the peace process on ice, embattled Prime Minister Ehud Barak attempted Monday to cob­bIe together a coalition government that would include hard-liners and further diminish prospects for a peace treaty with the Palestinians. 
Street clashes-persisted Monday, and Israeli securi­ty forces clamped down on Palestinian areas, closing the airport in the Gaza Strip and sealing off a West Bank town that has been the source of shooting on Gilo, a Jewish neighbor­hood of Jerusalem. 
Barak. who announced an indefinite "timeout" from the disintegrating peace process on Sunday, turned his focus to sal­vaging his shrunken coali­tion before parliament returns from a three­month recess on Sundav. 
To keep his government from collapse and avoid early elections, Barak was wooing the leader of the right-wing opposition, Ariel Sharon the man Palestinians blame for pro­voking the current spasm of violence. Barak and his negotiators met Sharon and planned additional talks Tuesday. 
Meanwhile, the death 
count grew. Two Palestinian teen-agers died '.\llonday from head wounds suffered in earlier clashes in the West Bank town of Nablus, and a Hebron man died during a firefight on Monday night. 
The deaths on the 26th· day of fighting brought the overall toll to 124, all but eight of them Arabs. The clashes erupted after Sharon made a controver­sial Sept. 28 visit to the most contested religious shrine in Jerusalem, sacred to both Jews and Muslims. 
Fighting raged for a sec­ond night on Jerusalem's periphery Monday when Palestinian gunmen in Beit Jalla opened fire on the Jewish neighborhood of Gilo. Israeli police respond­ed with machine-gun fire and tank shells. In a first, police ordered a "lights­out" for those Gilo homes facing Beit Jalla. Three Palestinians were slightly injured in the shelling. 
The army also reported firefights at other friction points in the West Bank as well as a number of fire­bomb incidents. An Israeli soldier was wounded in one firebomb attack at Rachel's Tomb, an Israeli enclave in Bethlehem. Earlier, Palestinian stone throwers clashed with Israeli soldiers at two chronic trouble spots in the Gaza Strip, with 36 Palestinians wounded, according to hospital doc­tors. 

Judge: Citizens to decide flag's fate 
Associated Press 
JACKSON, Miss. 

A judge ruled Monday that Mississippi voters should be allowed to decide whether the embattled state flag, which incorporates the Confederate battle banner, stays or goes. 
The question could be on a statewide ballot in 2002, Hinds Countf Circuit Judge Swan Yerger said Monday. 
f.'lag opponents, who say the Confederate banner is a racist sym­bol, were looking to Gov. Ronnie Musgrove's 17-member commission to propose alternative designs and called the ruling unfortunate. 
"Gov. Musgrove has put into motion a process by which people can talk about this business of the flag wil.hout it becoming a simple thumbs up, thumbs down proposi­tion," said Hichard Howorth, a book­store owner in Oxford who had chal­lenged the initiative as unconstitu­tional 
Flag supporters said the judge's decision is a victory for the democra­tic process and Southern heritage. 
"If you don't like the flag the way it is. or if you do like the flag, you'll get to vote on il." said Greg Stewart, an attorney and member of the Sons of Confederate Veterans, who sought to place the issue before voters. 
The question he wants asked on the ballot: Should "the flag adopted in 1894 and used continuously there­after be the official state flag." 
Stewart and initiative backers still must get the signatures of about 90,000 registered voters to place the measure on the ballot. 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, October 24, 2000 
========================================================================================================== 
TUHKEY 

Greece leaves NATO e:~ercises in protest 
A••oci,ted l'rcss 
ISTANBUL, Turkey 
Greek forces have pulled out of NATO exercises in Turkey af'ter a dispute between the neighboring nations over military bound­arit,s in the Aegean Sea, mil­
it a rv offi­cials·said. 
The dis­put,3 marked the first serious threat to a yearlong cl'f.>rt to improve relations between the traditional rivals. 

"/don't find it right that last year 
after one or two events tu set a s i d e
one immediately becomes 
I o n g · 
pessimistic on these 
standing 
efforts towardfriendship." differ­ences and b e g a n
Sabahattin Cakmakoglu 
t a I k s Turkish defense minister aimed to 
"There is a real problem which NATO must deal wi1.h," (;reek government spl1kesman Dimitris Heppas said Monday. 
Greece's Defense Minister, i\kis Tsochadzopoulos, ordered the county's forces to pull out of the maneuvers after N/\TO did not respond loll. (;reek request to cut the SPvcn-nation exercises short. 
~.peaking on condition of anonymity, a senior Turkish military official at the NATO exercises said the entire Creek contingent -two warships, six jets and 127 soldiers -had returned home by Monday morning. 
'l'he pullout came after Turkey blocked Creek jets frJm participating in the exercise Saturday and w;:1.rned of "undesired results" if Greece persisted in flying over two Aegean islands. 
Turkey says the Greek islands, Lcmnos and Ikaria, are "demilitarized zones" under past agreements. Greece, which maintains a strong military presence on Lemnos, says they were included in exercise flight plans. 
The seven-nation military 

Expectant motherortwins with one year old child seeks child care assistance InGranger Good Salary, Monday-Friday Call Jasmin 277-5106 

Call 259-2000 for more details 
Do you like to write? Would you like to write for The Observer? 
Call 1-5323. 

exercises are scheduled lo end Wednesday. 
Turkey and Greece have come close tu war three times in the last 26 years over the divided island of Cyprus and over a number of territorial disputes in the 
Aegean.  
But  the  neighboring  
nations  
agreed  

case tc11­
s ions. 
Turkey was accepted as a 
candidate to join the 
Eu ropean Un ion after 
Greece lil'ted objections. 
Turkish Defense Minister Sabahattin Cakmakoglu said the dispute should not be seen as the end of' efforts to improve relations. 
"I don't find it right that after one or two events one immediately becomes pes­simistic on these efforts toward friendship," Cakmakoglu said. 
Also Monday, Turkey's pri­vate television NTV reported that Greek Cypriot missile batteries locked on two Turkish F-16s which appar­ently entered Greek Cypriot air space to confront two Greek jets taking off from Paphos air base. 
"You can't lock your mis­siles on our planes," NTV television quoted Turkish Cypriot leader Rauf Denktash as saying. "If you are not careful, this could mean war." 
Cyprus has been divided into ethnic Greek and Turkish areas since the 1974 Turkish invasion which came in the wake of a coup by supporters of union with Greece. Turkey maintains 35,000 troops on the island. 
Clinton pushes for Web privacy 
Associated Press 

WASmNGTON 
The Clinton administration is stepping up its effort to ensure the government protects Americans' personal privacy after a congressional report alleged federal agencies elec­tronically track users online. 
When asked about the report, which said 13 federal agencies ignored a directive against tracking visitors to government Web sites. White House spokesman Jake Siewert said the administration is starting to keep tabs on agen­cies. 
"What we've done concretely is to ask them, when they sub­mit their budget requests in Deccm her. to give us an update on exactly where they are in the process and how they're correcting their policy if-it's out of compliance with our regulations," Siewert told reporters. 
Siewert and the White House's Office of Management and Budget made a distinction -also made in the original General Accounting Office study -between helpful track­ing by electronic "cookies" and surreptitious collection of information. 
In a letter responding to the GAO, the budget office's deput)' director for management, Sally Kat1..en, said lhat some of the cookies used on federal sites arc helpl'ul, similar to "shop­ping cart" cooki(~s on a retail­er's Web site. 
On an Education Department site, cookies help student loan recipients fill out applications and consolidate their loans online. The U.S. Mint shopping site also uses cookies to keep track of purchases. 
"These session cookies also have important advantages for electronic government" and are not covered by the White llousc order barring cookies, Katzen wrote. 


New Candidates at Moreau Seminary 
Holy Cross: The Next Generation 
ANSWER :W 
THECALL W 

www.nd.edu/-vocation 
So, what's your 
money market paying? 

Maybe it's time you checked out ours! 
800/522-6611 
~<=::t
1-~~I ~E·;.•.-ou~~ 

r"3....NC>TREDAME 
~--FEDER.AL CREDIT UNION 
For People:·. Not. :Cor P'rofit. 
219/239-66"11 www.ndfcu-org
lndc,pcmdcnt of' the Unlventhy 
•s1s,ooo 
rnJntmum opening dot:JQ•tt. Annual Percontago Yl•k.1 (APY) etfoc:tl'Ve a& of Oc;tot,er 1B, zooo. A.PY•• variable. ·r...., APV wlU change aaen Wedl,.....day to n,fll!!JllC.1 thflll -eetcty ,,.....ury oua.lon bOnd aq...~•te"' yteld for Q1-d•v 1-~1... If the dalty minimum balanee faffs~ s,s.ooo on any o•v•n day. 

• 
$7.00 monthly m••nt•n•riae f'e. wlll be _,..,••-0 Zil1iiJUlr1..llit the acoount, thereby reoc::luc:tng -=i81ml,ng&. 




Tuesday, Octobi;:J .24, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
RUSSIA 
American pleads innocent in spy case 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

Heading from a 40-page statement he says will be his only testimony, American businessman Edmond Pope told a court Monday ho did not expect a fair trial on spy­ing charges. his attorney said. 
Pope is being tried in a closed courtroom on charges brought by Russia's Federal Security Service, which says he illegally bought plans for a high-speed torpedo. He says he is innocent. 
His attornev. Pavel Astakhov. told journalists that Pope read from a prepared statement listing over 80 ubjeclions to the way the trial has been conducted and accusing the judges of bias. 
"He believes now that the stance taken by the court is a rather accusatory one, and there is no chance to obtain a fair judgment," Astakhov said. 
If convicted, Pope faces 10 

THE 28th ANNUAL 

SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Madrigal Dinners 
Fri. & Sat., Dec. 1 & 2 at 7 pm Sun., Dec. 3 at 2 & 7 pm Regina North Lounge 
Madrigal singers from the Saint Mary's College choirs, along with period instruments, jugglers, a jester and a Master of the House entertain 200 patrons per performance during 

to 20 years in prison. To protest the way the case has been handled, he will make no testimonv bevond his pre­pared stateme.nt, the lawyer said. 
Pope, a 54-year-old former naval intelligence officer, could be glimpsed through courtroom doors as he sat in the defendant's cage, wearing a brown sports jacket and striped tie. 
He has been confined in Moscow's grim and over­crowded Lefortovo prison since his arrest April 3. His family says he was suffering from a rare form of bone can­cer that was in remission when he was arrested, and want him released for exami­nation. 
The defense has lodged 15 motions -from a request for an examination by doctors, including Pope's American surgeon, to a demand to replace the court translator, who is an officer of the intelli­gence service that brought the 
-e-­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
charges against Pope. All have been rejected, Astakhov said. 
He said that he would move to have some-of the tran­scripts of Pope's interroga­tions thrown out because they contained errors. 
The Federal Security Service, the chief successor of the Soviet KGB, says Pope is a spy. His supporters say he was trying to buy information about technology that is at least a decade old and has already been sold abroad. A defense request to subpoena a letter from a Moscow scientif­ic institute that Astakhov said authorized him to get the information has also been rejected by the court. 
"It is obvious that Ed Pope will not receive a fair trial, even though it is clear that he is innocent," Pope's congress­man, Rep. John Peterson of Pennsylvania, said in a state­ment released Sunday in Washington, D.C. 
Peterson and Pope's wife, Cheri, planned to travel to 
Moscow this week. Cheri 
Pope will request access to 
the courtroom to provide 
moral support for her hus­
band as he faces his 
accusers, Peterson said. 
After leaving the Navy, Pope worked as a researcher at Penn State University and later founded CERF Technologies International, a company specializing in studying foreign maritime equipment. 
UGANDA 

Ebola claillls 54 lives in week-long outbreak 
Associated Press 
KAMPALA, Uganda 
For the first time in more than a wee'k, the death toll from the Ebola outbreak in northern Uganda has not increased during a 24-hour period. 
Dr. Sam Okware, who chairs a task force set up to deal with the outbreak. said Monday that 11 new cases of the virus were identified in the previous 24 hours. But he said early detection was helping to prevent deaths. 
Ebola, a type of hemor­rhagic fever for which there is no k n o w n 

cure, has "The people are coming 
$848,000
claimed 54 

to terms with the initial to help the
lives and infected al shock. They know how it govern­
m e n t .
least l 06 

is transmitted and how 
while the
other peo­

to avoid it." U.N. World
ple around 
F o o d
the town of Program is

Gulu. 225 Sam Okware 
delivering
miles north 

doctor 
food to
0 f 
Kampala. 
"The people are coming to terms with the initial shock," Okware said. "They now know how it is trans­mitted and how to avoid it." 
On Oct. 14, experts con­firmed that a virus killing people around Gulu was Ebola, a highly contagious disease that can take up to two weeks to incubate. During this period the patient is not contagious, but on.ce the first flu-like symptoms develop, the patient can transmit the virus through contact with 

Please recycle The Observer 
Jt

::1::1 :~~ 
A Solo Piano Concert 
Friday October 27, 2000 8pm O'Laughlin Auditorium 


For ticket infonnation contact the Sdnt ...,,., Coll•r•~ SaintMary's Box Office at ~M8fif{-'E~/
FOR THE ARTS

284-4626 
HOTRI! DAMI!, IN 

Please join us in support of the The Center for the Homeless by bringing a donation of canned food to the concert. There will be collection baskers at the entrances. 
bodily fluids, such as mucus, saliva and blood. 
In later stages. the victim begins bleeding internally, vomiting blood and produc­ing bloody diarrhea and eventually bleeding from all orifices. At this point, and for a short time after death, the patient is most conta­gious. 
Experts from the World Health Organization, the 
U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Doctors without Borders are in Gulu helping the Ugandan authorities attempt to contain the dis­ease. 
On Fridav. WHO launched 
• an appeal f o r 
hospitals 
treating victims. Ugandan authorities have allocated $200,000 to fight the outbreak. 
The strain of the virus affecting Gulu has been identified as Ebola Sudan, one of three strains that can infect humans. 

The strain was last detect­ed near the Ebola River in Sudan in 1979, creating sus­picions that it may have been inadvertently brought to the district by Ugandan rebels. who have bases in southern Sudan. 


1uesday, October 24, 2000

page 8 The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 
Gore supporters lack 
Nader supporters take out ads 
zeal of Bush crunpaign 
Associated Press 
i'usociatcd Pres• 

WASHINGTON 
Enlhusiasm for Al Gore is sig­nificantly lower among his sup­porters two weeks before the election than the zeal for George W. B u s h among his backers, new polls 
mggest. 
Bush has 
enjoyed 
higher lev­
31s of 
,enthusiasm 
'l.mong his 

base supporters for months as 
Republicans hungry to regain 
'.he White House united behind 
;he Texas governor. Democrat 
Gore had closed the enthusi­
asm gap after a successful 
,Jemocratic convention. 

But the gap reappeared soon ,1fter the first presidential debate, when Gore was criti­dzcd for his sighing, interrup­1.ions and misstatements. He iilill has an advantage on top issues and experience, but lost ground on several personal measures -notably on trust and speaking his mind. 
"It was apparent before the l)emocratic convention," said ,\ndrew Kohut who noticed the 1.rend in a Pew Research Center poll. "It resurfaced after the lirst debate and it appears to have continued." 
The difference in enthusiasm also showed up in polls this week by ABC News and CBS­New York Times. 
Bush got strong support from B4 percent of his backers in the ABC News poll while 76 per­cent of Gore backers strongly i;upported him. 
In the CBS-New York Times poll, 54 percent of Bush sup­porters were enthusiastic, with bl percent of conservatives ~;aying that. Among Gore sup­porters, 39 percent were ,mthusiastic with just 41 per­cent of liberals saying they were enthusiastic about him. 
Gore also is getting pressure from Green Party candidate Halph Nader on the left, who is taking anywhere from 4 per-1:en t to 8 percent in crucial 


1CIT Rl4D~ FOR 
states like Michigan, California and Minnesota. 
Gore is more popular among black voters than he was a year ago, according to a survey by the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies. He had 
an 86 per­

cent favor­able rating in the sur­vey, com­pared with 69 percent a year ago. 
Bush is m o r e 
Bush unpopular 
w i t h blacks, 55 percent of whom view him unfavorably, com­pared with 48 percent who felt that way about Bob Dole in 1996. The Joint Center poll of 1,608 people, about half of them black, was taken Sept. 15 to Oct. 9 has an error margin of 
3.5 percentage points. 
Vice President Gore is almost as popular with black voters as President Clinton, who had a 91 percent favorable rating, said David Bositis. a senior researcher at the Joint Center. 
"Clinton's favorables and his job approval are stratospher­ic," said Bositis. "Gore's favor­ables are almost as good as Clinton's -substantially high­er than a year ago." 
The drop in enthusiasm over­all and the need to rally the Democratic base for Gore was WASHINGTON 
Ralph Nader supporters who worry that they could tip the presidential election to the Republicans arc being told in a 
new ad campaign that a "vote f'or Nader is not a vote for Bush." 
T h e G r e e n 


Party can-Nader did ate currently draws about 4 per­cent in national polls, and some Democrats fear he could siphon enough votes from Democrat Al Gore to give Texas Gov. George W. Bush the edge in several states with close races. 
The vice president said Monday that "it's too early to tell" what impact Nader will have on Election Day. 
"Toward the end of the election it is still likely that the vast majority of people will want to cast a vote that will decide the future of the country," Gore said. "My task is not to tell those people not to vote for Nader. Instead, my task is to convince them to vote enthusiastically for me." 
Full-page ads scheduled to run Thursday are trying to convince such voters other­wise. 
"Why Voting for a Candidate Who Can't Win Is tho Smartest Thing You'll Ever Do," reads the ad, which will appear in seven r.irn.rkets in a dozen daily and weekly alternative newspa­pers. "And Don't Worry, a Vote for Nader is Not a Vote for Bush." 
The ads are moan t to appeal to independents, for­mer supporters of Republican candidate John McCain, and "disgruntled Democrats" who might oth­erwise sit out the election, said Greg MacArthur. whose group, Citizens for Strategic 
Voting, p a i d $320,000 

"The votes that can be 
for the 

ads. gotten for Nader are " T h e more likely to come from votes that states where there's no 
can be got­

real competition and I
ten for 

Nader are simply want to make more like­that point." 
ly to come f r o m 

Greg MacArthur
states w h e r e Nader supporter there's no real com­petition, and I simply want to The Austin {Texas} American Statesman, The Austin Chronicle, The San Francisco Chronicle, the San Francisco Examiner. The San Francisco Bay Guardian and The Boulder (Colo.) Camera. 
Gore has a sizable lead in New York and a big lead in Massachusetts, and Bush is far ahead in Texas. But Colorado is close, and Democrats are concerned about losing votes lo Nader in California, where Bush has been eating into Gore's lead. 
MacArthur said his main goal is to help Nader win at least 5 percent of the popular vote to qualify the Green 
Party for fed­eral cam­paign money in 2004. 
"The mes­sage is, if you live in a state where one or the other major­party candi­dates has a lock, and you're not happy with the way things are 

make that point," MacArthur said. 
The ads are to run in The New York Times, national edition; The Village Voice, The Boston Globe, The Boston Phoenix, Los Angeles Times, Los Angeles Weekly, going, your only effective vote is for Nader because that adds up in the national total and can bring him mil­lions of dollars for 2004," said MacArthur. a business­man and documentary film­maker. 
on the minds of Democrats this 
week. 

NOTRE DAME LAW FAIR 
"All of us in Democratic poli­tics arc focused on energizing 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 24 
and turning out the base," said 
11 a.m.-3 p.m. 

Democratic pollster Dane• Strother. "Bill Clinton could be 
Lower Level, McKenna Hall 
helpful in a lot of ways. He could get out to California immediately and save the state, 
Law school representatives from 60 schools will be 
allow his voice to be used in automated calls to key groups. 
available in an informal setting to answer questions and 
"Polls have closed in 
provide information about their school to all students
California in a big way," he said. "Without California, you 
who are interested in a career in law. 
have nothing." The idea of calling on Clinton 
The following schools will be represented:
to rally Gore's base was echoed by two Democratic senators who held a conference call on behalf of Gore's campaign to 
Ave Maria 
Bos ton College
question Bush's readiness for 
Seton Hall Southem lllnois University 

Brooklyn Law SL Mary's University California Western Sl Thomas University 
Capital University Sul folk Univ. Celle Western Reserve University Temple Catholic Univ. Tulane Olicago-Ksnt , UT Uliv. of Akron Oef'aul U,iv. of Chicago 
Detroit College of Law at MSU Univ. of Cincinnati Duke University Univ. of Dayton Duquesne University Univ. of Detroit Mercy Emory University Univ. of Illinois George Washington University Univ. of Iowa 
Hamline Univ. of Kansas lndana Universit y-Bloorningt on Univ. of Kentucky Indiana Universit y-lndianapolis Univ. o I Miami Join Mirshall Law School Univ. of Michigan 
Loyola Law School LA University of Minnesota Loyola Universil y Chicago Univ. of Notre Dame 
Loyola Univarsrt y New Orleans Univ. of Pacific Marquette Unlvarsit y Univ. of Pemsylvania Norlhern llunois Lhiverslty Univ. of San Francisco Norlhwestem Univarsit y Univ. of Texas 
Ohio Northern Univ. of Toledo Ohio State University Vaparaiso University Penn St a '6 Dickinson Villanova 
Regent Unlversit y Wake Forest Saint Louis University Washburn University Santa aara University WIiiiam Mitchell 
the job. 

,_,.,, .., 
P2vyou like to write? 
Writ~ for The Observer. 
Calf 1-5323 




Tuesday, October 24, 2000 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Arizona flooding fore es evacuations 
National Guard helicopters
Associated Press 
searched the area for people possibly trapped or swept away
PARKEH, Ariz. 

by the 11ood.
Hescue workers searched for "They had helicopters rescu­several people believed to be 
ing people out of trees," saidmissing Monday after their Randy Ussery, whose hometrailers were swept away by 
was filled with at least a foot of 
fierce flooding in two western water Monday. "l had peopleArizona towns. 
banging on my door at five in 
Hundreds of people were 
the morning. We didn't even forced to evacuate the neigh­
know it was coming. There was 
boring towns of Wenden and no warning."
Salome after a little more than 
La Paz 
an inch of 
County offi­
rain triggered c I s 
major flood­''They had helicopters i a 
declared a ing on rescuing people out of state of Sunday. 
trees. I had people emergency
Witnesses 
in Wcndcn,
hanging on my door at
saw at least 
a town of 
two people five in the morning. We about 1,200 carried away 
didn't even know it about 80 
in a torrent of miles west
was commg.
water, said 
of Phoenix. Hed Cross 
The state spokeswoman Randy Ussery also was Rosie preparing to
flood victim
Barraza. 
The missing people were believed to have been among dozens of migrants workers picking crops in the area. The workers had been living in trailers near the Centennial Wash, which funneled storm water into the area. 
Because of the desert terrain, water doesn't soak into the ground. and Sunday's rainfall was joined by floodwater pour­ing into Wenden and Salome from higher elevations. 
Sheriff's officials said they had reports of at least seven people missing but no reports of deaths or major injuries. 
declare an 
emergency, which would be necessary to seek federal emergency relief funding. 
The flooding had knocked several trailers over and a few elderly residents had to be air­lifted out because of stress­related illnesses, said La Paz County Sheriffs Lt. Don Davis. 
Vehicles in Wenden were turned on their sides by the flood's force and almost com­pletely submerged under murky water that was 8 feet deep in some places. About 500 people had been evacuat­ed. 
The towns of Wenden and 
Salome usually get about one­half inch of rain in the entire month of October. But they were drenched by 1.2 inches of rain that fell from Saturday night through Sunday night, according to the National Weather Service, and more rain was expected. 
Davis said natural gas ser­vice had been cut off in Wenden and electricity service was sporadic. lie said water flowing from town taps was undrinkable because of possi­ble contamination. 
"The general atmosphere out here is that people are just grateful," said Andrea Munzer, another Red Cross spokes­woman. "They're upset they've lost their things. but I think most people are just happy they're all right." 
In Texas, thunderstorms Sunday and Monday swelled rivers and flooded roads west of San Antonio with more than six inches of rain. 
In -the northern part of the state, storms pelted the region with pingpong ball-sized hail and spawned at least two tor­nadoes, one that skirted Amarillo. No injuries or major damage was reported. 
Flooding in southwest Oklahoma forced hundreds of residents to flee homes in Chickasha and Anadarko, where more than 9 inches of rain fell in 24 hours. 
"Basically over the last sever­al days we've just had a good increase of moisture from the Gulf of Mexico," said National Weather Service forecaster Jose Garcia. in Amarillo. 

Sure, you probably learned quite a bit going to class and sticking your nose in an overpriced textbook. But now. the real test is at hand: life. Life in the business world. Life in the age of some wicked cool technology. Life in a new millennium. 
At ONE. we can help you prepare for your future. You see, we're a different kind of coil:lpany looking for a different kind of professional. We're not after problem identifiers. we want solution providers. Individuals who can work on a team. yet think independently. Innovators who are ready to learn a thing or two about success. 
www.oneco.net 
Equal Opportunity Ernployer 
Actors find solution to six-Dlonth strike 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
Actors who appear in TV and radio commercials praised a deal Monday that would end their six-month strike against the advertising industry, the longest talent walkout in Hollywood history. 
"This is a great bit of news. My head hurts from bumping on the ceiling,'' actor Richard Dreyfuss said Monday at a boisterous New York rally for the Screen Actors Guild and the American Federation of Television Radio Artists. 
If a joint union board endorses the contracts Oct. 28, actors could be back at work two days later while ratification by the rank-and­file takes place by mail. 
Exact terms of the three­vear deals were not dis­closed. But both sides con­firmed that the payment structure -the biggest source of friction during negotiations -will be largely unchanged after Hollywood's first major walkout in 12 years. 
SAG rebuffed an industry demand that actors give up the payments they receive every time a commercial runs on network television, union negotiator John McGuire said. And the union dropped its demand to spread the residual system to cable TV, meaning actors will receive a flat fee for cable ads instead 
7 JOBS 
of "pay-for-play." 
Advertisers also agreed that union members should be used in online ads, though no pay rates were negotiated. 
"It's a win-win. It's a fair compromise from both sides. We're pleased with it," said Ira Shepard, an industry negotiator. 
The strike, which began May 1, cost the Los Angeles­area economy an estimated $125 million in lost produc­tion, drove commercial work to Canada and Europe and illustrated the increasing strain of labor relations in the entertainment industry. Next year, actors and writers will negotiate separately with the major Hollywood studios, producers and TV networks. 
SAG and AFTRA claim a combined membership of 135,000. Their members lost untold millions in commercial payments during the strike. 
"I believe we can hold our heads high, as can the indus­try," AFTRA President Shelby Scott said. "I think the indus­try will be happy they can begin shooting good commer­cials again." 
The industry, represented by the American Association of Advertising Agencies and the Association of National Advertisers, was hit by boy­cotts and high-profile protests that increasingly involved marquee celebrities, including Paul Newman and Rosie O'Donnell. 
Section 9D 

11\111tlllffll---nn-nn-••••
~11111¦u---¦--• 
Meet ONE on Wednesday, 
October 25th, 7:00pm, 
Center for Continuing 
Education, Room 208. \ 
. w·,11 take place on Thursday,
Interviews October 26th in Flanner Hall. 
L 
F1I ~ A.ttendaflt _ T..-a,vel. Grer:rt , 

NO EXPERIENCE? NO 
gk Flexible he-ura.. "• 
per •· d· pay a,nd t,ene-flts.

PROBLEM. -Com• work for 
Outstan ,ng . • our&•
One month tnHn•"9

the. nat1on'• leading garden 
required.

tool mfgr. as a 4;.u•tc,n1er 
service ntP'f"•$entative. Answer 
. and 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page IO BSERVER Tuesday, October 24, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
f'.0. llo< Q. Notre Dame. IN 16556 Ol4 Sou<h Dir1111g Hall, Noire Dame. IN 465~6 
EJ>ITUR IN CHIH 
Mike Connolly 

MANA<;JNG EDITOR 8USINfSS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 
Assr. MANAGING EDIH)R OPERATIONS MANAGER Christine Kraly Brian Kessler 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Mal'ie Mmingly YIEWl'OINT EDITOR, Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amand~ Greco SAINT MARV'S EDI roR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 
AIWF.RrJSING MANAGU; Pat Pcrtrs An IJEslGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYHEM5 AuMlNI~7·RArnR, Mike Gunville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLI.ER: Boh Woods Gl!APHIOi EDI roR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANACER/GfNERAI. INFO.......... 631-7471 FAX..................... ......................................631-6')27 WVERTISIN<; .... ................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd .edu 
EDITOR IN CHIH. .. .. ... .. ..................63 I -4 542 
MANAGING E . lTOR/AssT. ME.. .................. 631-4541 8USINF.SS OFFICE....................................631-5313 NEWS................................................... ... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VU-.WPOINT.. ...............................................631-5303 observer.viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sports. l@nd.edu  
SCENE.. ................,  ...................631-4540  
observer.scene. l@nd.edu  
.......................631-4324  
observer.smc. l@nd.edu  
PHOTO .......... ..  ................................ 631-8767  

5YHEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS...............631-8839 
rHE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web sire at http:llob1er11er.!ldrd11 for daily ,pdates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion .:olumns, .is wdl as cartoons, reviews and breaking news ·,om the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 

movies/music for 
weather for up-to-the 
minute forecasts 

weekly srudenc reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe• 
and rares of print ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published alter 

to meet rhe editors and 
Augusc 1999 
staff 
1:>ouCIES 

The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the IJnivmiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial con rent, including advertisements, is 11or governed by policies of the administration of either 1nstirurion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is rcponed as accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 1he majoricy of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, A.ssisranr Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ,,f the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free ,,xpression ofall opinions through lerrers is encouraged. .-etrers to thr Editor must he signed and must include wntacl information. 
Qumionr rrgarding 06m11tr polidt! ,hrmU be dirert­,·d lo Editor in C/11,fMik, LO!lllolly. 

Can you come out to play? 
I've done a lot of babysitting in my short life. and I've found that you can learn a lot from little kids. Of all the small lessons the numerous kids have taught me. the most important one is 
that no matter how  
old you are. you are  Molly  
still a kid, and peo­ Strzelecki  
ple will continuous­ 
ly treat you like  
one. I don't care if you are 21 or 61, at some point at some  Growing Up to be a Kid  
time at some place  
someone will  

assume you have no idea what is going 
on or that there is something else you 
need lo learn to make it in this world. 
So why not break out of the scholarly shell we seem to encapsulate ourselves in and act like the kids we are inside? Think about it: What better time of your life was there than when you were a kid? I know I, for one. am definitely still a kid, not just at heart. Considering the fact that I still consider Sesame Street quality programming. eat a lot of foods that contain the word 'and' in them (i.e. macaroni and cheese. peanut butter and jelly) and still feel that finger painting is a valid form of self-expression. I think it's safe to say that yes, I am a kid. I'm so in touch with my inner child it's like I never left grade school. 
What kind of kid are you? I'm not say­ing what kind of kid were you, because our kid personae change somewhat once we technically leave childhood. I know I. for one, was actually a very good kid in my younger day, never gave teachers any trouble, obeyed my parents for the most part, that sort of thing. (Hard to believe. if you knew me now.) What kind of kid arc you now? See which one fits you best. (Note that you may see yourself in more than one category, I know I do.) 
The "I Have a Booger" kid: This kid is yours if you have a penchant for exhibi­tionism, and like to show and tell people everything about you, disregarding the fact if it's appropriate or not. Think of the little kid who likes to show you his or her boogers after picking their nose or the college student who likes to run naked across the quad. 
The "Big Words" kid: ll'your first word was not "mamma," "dada," or "doggie." but rather "ostentatious," or "loqua­cious," then chances arc you were either an·only child or the very youngest sibling who hung out with adults a lot and learned to speak via people triple your age. And this vocabulary has most likely continued on in college. Think English majors. 
The "Skipping CD" kid: This is the kid who always repeats everything they say even when no one is listening. In the olden days you would have been called a "Broken Record," but hey. we're inner children of the millennium. Think of the small child first learning to use his or her vocal cords and says, "Hi. Hi. Hi." to every passing person, stranger or not. Think of the kid down the hall who pops into your room every so often, though you are clearly busy with 12 other things, and asks incessantly, "What's going on tonight? Did you go out last night? What are you doing? Huh? Huh? Huh?" Also. think the person you would most like to slap the minute they open his or her mouth. 
The "Whining" kid: Self-explanatory, but as a clarification. it's the one who complains about anything and every­thing, from schoolwork to how hot or cold it is in South Bend. His or her favorite expression is. "Do I haave to go to claass?" while lounging on the couch flipping channels. Think any member of the senior class. 
The 'Tm So Funny" kid: If you continu­ously make yourself' laugh and no one else thinks the joke is even remotely amusing, then you are this kid. Seen most often in the inebriated college stu­dent or in the kid trying to explain the humor in physical chemistry. Sometimes both. 
The "Bouncing Off the Walls" kid: If you consistently go to bed after 2 a.m.. then this is you. Also known as the "I Like to Keep My Boommate Awake" kid, or, more commonly. the "Night Owl," you do anything you can to stay awake. from getting a glass of water to checking your email repeatedly or IM-ing until all hours. And your roommate probably wants to strangle you. Stop it, or there will be no more books for you before bedtime. 
The "Go-Getter" kid: This is you if you knew from age 2 what you wanted to be in life. You had your lirst internship lined up at the age of 12 and your first job ready and waiting for you before you even entered college. You had a lemon­ade stand when you were little, didn't you? Some people never change 
Clearly there are more. categories than the ones I've listed. And more important than which and how many categories you lind yourself in is the notion that you do, indeed, find yourself' in one of these categories. Accept and own up to your childishness. Embrace it like you would your favorite stuffed animal. 
And then go build yourself a trce­house. 
Molly Strzelecki is a a senior writing major. She can be contacted at strz7359@saintmarys.edu. Her column appears every other week. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces· sarily those ofThe Observer. 

!DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"When I grow up, I want to be a little boy." 

Joseph Heller author 


VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Tuesday, October 24, 2000 BSERVER page 11 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Supporting Notre Dame fan in his struggle against leukemia 
t\11 of you that attended the Purdue and his family wore sponsored by the that Scott had received a copy of his talk the entire student body to return these pep rally last month had a chance to Make-A-Wish foundation for their trip at the pep rally and photos or him with positive thoughts to Scott now in his meet a special young man f'rom San to Notre Dame to experience the Purdue the team, which inspired him to be time of need. You can contact Scott at Diego, Calif.. Scott Delgadillo. In my 25 game weekend. strong through this most difficult time. 7319 Golfcrest Drive, San Diego, CA, years of coaching, I've been fortunate I'm saddened to say that we have Scott said to his mother, "This is like a 92119 or by e-mail at cheqs@home.com. enough to meet some very remarkable received some unfortunate news about football game; sometimes you get I know that with the attitude this extra­people. None, however, has made a big­Scott. His leukemia has resurfaced in his knocked down, but you just have to get ordinary young man possesses, along ger impression on me than Scott. bone marrow and he was admitted to back up and in the game." with our prayers, he will win this battle. 
Those of you who weren't at the pep the Children's llospital of San Diego. His We all remember Scott sharing with rally missed a chance to meet a remark­last round of chemotherapy treatments us how perseverance, determination Bob Davie able individual and witness this 14-year­were harder to get through than others. and positive thinking have helped him Notre Dame football Coach old 's courage and passion for life. Scott Scott's mother, Carmen, mentioned during this ordeal. I would like to ask Oct. 17, 2000 
Eliminate slant in journalistic reporting as in anthropological studies 
Let's be objective. Let's summarize an event by stating the facts. Let's be journalists. 
Students unsuspectingly adopt a label when they declare a major. Business majors ­good entertainers; 
Brittany
psychology majors 
Morehouse 
-good listeners. And so on. This 
matching of person-All About 
alities to majors is a Anthropology 
college sub-culture 
cliche. Resorting to 
labeling is not all bad -it serves as a 
mechanism of identification to put 
order in our world. 
The tricky part is with people who are bi-majored. And, within this popu­lation, what if the two majors are characterized in a conflicting sort of way? For example, journalism com­bined with anthropology. Are they mutually exclusive in goals and meth­ods? Will trying to be both create an identity crisis? (Should I start saving for visits to some future analyst's office?) Addressing a recent controver­sy over a topic in anthropology, one example of irresponsible journalism raises this question. 
In USA Today on Oct. 2, reporter Dan Vergano attempts to summarize a problem raised by the pending release of a book by Patrick Tierney, also a journalist, titled, "Darkness in El Dorado." Rather than remain neutral, as journalists should, Vergano mixes dispassionate objectivism with infer­ence and confusion. There is no justifi­cation to call into question the integrity of the entire field of anthropology. which is, unfortunately, the end result of Vergano's piece. Where Vergano's job is to report on a controversial debate, he instead attempts to innu­ence the outcome of that debate. 
The storm swirls around Tierney's accusations of unethical, unscientific conduct by researchers in studying the Yanomami people of the Amazon River basin. One of the field workers charged is Napolean Chagnon, an anthropolo­gist notorious for his characterization of this tribe as a "warlike" and "vio­lent" group. The Yanomami: "A Fierce People" provides an ethnographic por­trayal of their violent practices while showing how far removed the Yanomami are from modern society. Thus, the reader is left to infer from the data that humans are innately fierce and brutal in naturalistic condi­
tions. This conclusion.is highly contro­
versial. 

Tierney's work draws into the spot­light some serious questions about Chagnon's methodology, and that is as it should be. Scientists are subject to scrutiny. 
However, Vergano reports the intra­disciplinary disagreement in melodra­matic fashion. Rather than describing the scholastic debate forum, he pro­jects an image of cartoonish researchers engaging in soap opera antics. The quotes he chooses, the tone of the piece, the focus on negative backbiting of Chagnon, all stir up trou­ble rather than address issues raised by Tierney in his book. Vergano also gratuitously dredges up old controver­sies in the field of anthropology. For example, the court battle between a group of anthropologists and Native Americans over the 9,000-year-old bones of a Kennewick Man is quite. mysteriously brought up, with Vergano actually suggesting that some bones might be missing from those returned to the Native Americans. This is irrele­vant to the story. 
Vergano's leading and concluding lines, the most important in journal­ism, are accurate indicators of the overall sensationalistic tack taken in his piece. He begins, "The last time rain-forest science caused this much excitement, Indiana Jones was fleeing boulders and blowguns on the big screen." This choice of allusion trivial­izes the serious nature of the problem. 
In his news piece about the hot top­ics surrounding "Darkness in the El Dorado," Vergano cleverly avoids choosing sides by indirectly asking a new question on whether or not anthropology might be out of control. His ability to manipulate the reader into feeling as though they are learn­ing of the news through an omniscient voice is inadvisable at best. 
The real issue here is not whether Tierney's charges arc true. Those closely involved in the field will sort that out. What deserves scrutiny here is when journalism steps outside neu­tral objectivity. The public perceives journalists as unbiased: they expect them to be unless the piece is labeled an opinion editorial. Slanted journal­ism has the potential to destroy the credibility of others -in this case, a discipline that is in the business of 
understanding people. 
This is where anthropology has something to teach journalism. Anthropology's task, which is uniquely its own, is to report on a people or culture as dispassionately as 
possible. However, in that~ reporting, anthropologists are taught to be con­
stantly cognizant of the way their personal history intrudes on their observations. This awareness is emphasized so that when doing fieldwork the anthropologist is sensitized to the way a per­sonal view­point might influence the data. 
Moreover, they realize that once they take on the task of studying a culture, they assume the mantle of fellow human being, and thereby are bound to the common rules of civili­ty and caring that humans must share. 

Journalism's task, which is uniquely its own, is to pre­sent the facts of a situation or issue as dispassionately as humanly possi­ble. It is the task of the reader to then form conclusions about the reporting. Vergano went over and beyond the boundaries of reporting, into the area of fomenting dis­sent and conflict. He has charged the anthropological barrel of apples to all be rotten based on one bad piece of fruit. This is not his place. To cast 
aspersions on the entire field is to gen­eralize too much. Both fields are supposed to inform others about something the public oth­erwise would have no way of know­ing. Journalists, unlike anthro­pologists, do not have the opportunity, i.e. the space, in their work to explain to the reader how their history and mindset is influencing their reporting. What they ,~ can borrow from / anthropologists is to be extra sensi­tive of the impact of their words, even as they remain extra ~ careful to embrace objectivity. 
Journalists and anthro­pologists have more in 
common than not; perhaps the key is in the way they express con­science in their finished work. As for 
me, I hope my values are inculcat­ed strongly 
enough to allow my con­science to lead 
the way, no matter which hat I may be wearing. 
Brittany Morehouse is a senior American 

studies and anthro­pology major. She would like to tell Scott in San Diego that on behalf ofthe student body. he is in our thoughts and prayers. We are with him all the way. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


C 

page 12 Tuesday, October 24, 2000 
=========================================================================================================== 
ALBIUM REVIEW 
M:ystikal finds success without No Limit's help 
By ARIENNE THOMPSON Scene Music Critic 
The No Limit tank has rolled on by without its usual uproar for Y2K, and guess who jumped ship? You may know him as the "Prince of the South" or as "Mr. llere I Go," but whatever alias is used to identi­fy Miduwl Tyler (read: Mystikal), the fact remains that he is one of the most talented and most highly esteemed rappllrs of recent years. With a mammoth fan b,tse and a signature sound, Mystikal has man­aged to change his initial sleeper status into star­dom. 
Signing on to Jive Hecords in 1995, Mystikal was an angry Gulf War veteran ready to begin a new era in his lifo. Through live shows and word-ol'-mouth identification in his hometown of New 
Mystikal proves with this album that he doesn't need No Limit dog tags to be a soldier. His familiar gravel­1y yell and trademark phrases make Let's Get Heady a true fan's delight. He's still "not playin"' and "da man right chea" contin­ues tu claim that he will tear other rappers apart on the mi(;. The "standards" are on this album as well. "Murderer III" is the latest of his moving tributary songs paying homage to his slain sister Michelle Tyler, a 
victim of 

Orleans, Mystikal succeeded in push­domestic
Mystikal proves
ing I 00,000 copies of his debut abuse.
with this album 
album Mind of Mystikal. Songs on "Smoked Out" that 1lbum like "Y'all Ain't Heady that he doesn 't is also an addi­Yet" and "llere I Go" caught the 
need No Limit dog tion to the col­
attention of' No Limit f'ounder, and lection of prc­
tags to be a soldier.
rap mogul, Percy "Master P" Miller viouscomposi­
who ~ igned Mystikal to his then small label in 1996. During his time as a "No Limit soldier," Tyler produced two impressive albums, Unpredictable and Ghetto Fabulous, and made: innumerable guesls appearances on Lhe albums of is l'cllow label mates including Mia X. Fiend, and Silkk the Shocker. 
With his rapid-lire delivery and gruff vocals, P had in M}stikal the ammunition for his tank. But as the latter saw his contract expire earlier this year, he made the critical decision not to renew it. Ile left No Limil in its fading glory and returned to Jive Hecords to create his fourth and most recent album, Let's Get Head:t. 
L,~t's Get Ready 
IVlystikal 
Jive Records 
Rating 

al:-'-'"" 

tions which all 

hail the brain­numbing effects of the infa­mous hip-hop delight, mari­juana. Fans will find Mystikal's clever recycling of' Unpredictable's "Still Smoking" beat refreshing 
and innovative. Mystikal's wit also stands undiminished on Let's Gel Heady. On the bubbly "Danger" he sings, " ... I been sharp. so pull me out the pencil sharpener/ Been bad 
like that student in the principal's office." On the standout track "The Braids," which describes his signature hairstyle, Mystikal boasts, "I don't sang, but my rhymes go bang/ Make the ink on the page catch flame and ignite like propane." Using the production talents of', among others, the Neµtunes, who are perhaps best known for their work on Noreaga's hit "Oh No." Mystikal veers f'rom the signature New Orleans-esque sound found on his albums from the No Limit era. His beats are more modern and more eclectic on this album show­casing the diversity of his style and delivery. He also utilizes the talents of Da Brat and the eccentric duo Outkast on the songs "Come Sec About Me" and "Neck Uv Da Woods," proving his solo shine on collaborations with artists outside the No Limit camp. 

Unfortunately, Let's Get Heady is not without its faults, which are most r,vident in the annoying "Family" whose purpose is to list the origins and branches of' Myslikal's relatives in Louisiana. The repetitive "Big Truck Boys" also has a large nuisance factor which its funky beat cannot overshadow. 
Though not Mystikal's best work to date, Let's Get Heady is a testament to his status as a strong and talented rapper who is now traveling toward a future without No Limit Hecords. With the backing of Jive Records and the undying support of his fans, Mystikal will undoubtedly become a legend in the history of rap music. 
ALBUM REVIEW 
lV[orphine provide one last thrill ride for fans 
ground following after their first certs as a journey through his drug-user's mentality better By JOE LARSON release, Good. Their second songs, where we first meet than Oliver Stone ever could. Bootleg Detroit Scene Music Criric 
release, Cure for Pain, sold over "Mary," then stop over to visit Bootleg Detroit is truly a 
300,000 copies worldwide and "Sheila," on our way to see amazing album. The music 
Every once in a while, a band Holling Stone called them "Claire." breathes fresh air into rock come:; along with a sound that is "1994's greatest underground Sandman's lyrics are sly and music, and the lyrics com­truly original. They don't just success." They followed up Cure clever, accompaning Colley's plement the moody, dark add on to something that has for Pain with two more albums, booming saxophone rifTs perfect­swing perfectly. been done already, or simply "Yes" and "Like Swimming." ly. The thundering bass of Morphine takes jazz. adds duplicate something old that Unfortunately, in 1999, Mark Sandman, furious sax solos and the blues and a dash of everyone has forgotten about. Sandman died of a heart attack Conway's jazz drumming make punk, and then gives it the These bands are true innovators, onstage in Italy. After Sandman's this one of the most interesting attitude of a Humphrey so much so that they cannot even death, Morphine's final studio live albums's to have been Bogart character. It is a griz­be co:>ied. recordings were released on the released in awhile. zled, mysterious sound that 
Morphine was one of these album entitled The Night. The highlights of this album cannot be compared to any­bands. Formed in Cambridge, Bootleg Detroit is an actual are the bass-driven songs thing that has come before. Mass. in 1992, Morphine blends bootleg recording by a fan of "Mary," "Thursday" and The live setting of Bootleg the speed and moodiness of punk Morphine's show in Detroit, "Buena," in which Calley's sax Detroit simply enhances the with Lhe smoothness of jazz and Mich. on March 7. 1994. work is the most prominantly magic of this sound, making blues into a conglomeration that It is a great collection of displayed. Other highlights it resonate with the attitude can never be imitated. The band Morphine's earliest work, include the strange "Head With and feeling that only this cons sted of' Billy Conway on encompassing both quick-paced Wings," and the bitter "Claire." mixture could provide. In an drums, the late Mark Sandman rockers and slow, moody The singular best song on the industry that is constantly on lead vocals and a 2-string laments. Most of the songs on album is definitely "Cure for churning out done and slide bass, and Dana Colley on an this album tell stories about par­Pain," in which the lyrics of' the redone, unoriginal bland­array of saxophones. ticular characters, mostly song cry, "Someday there'll be a ness. Morphine captured 
The group thrived in the local women, and their strange behav­cure for pain, that's the day I real energy and originality. musk scene in Cambridge, and ior and relationship to the story­throw my drugs away." In this Maybe they did find the accumulated a large under-teller. Sandman treated his con-song, Sandman sums up the cure for pain. 

Morphine 
Rykodisc Records 
Rating
........
~­
• 



NSIDER 

O
THE Tuesday, Occober 24, 2000 BSERVER Notre Dame at West Virginia 


LIZ LANGfThe Observer 

Junior receiver David Givens steps back to pass on the third-quarter reverse play that resulted in a 52-yard completion to senior Joey Getherall. The pass was the longest pass completion this season for the Irish. 
Irish topple Mountaineers 42-28 to end streak 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Assistant Sports Editor 
MORGANTOWI\, \VV 
Amidst the golden autumnal hills of Appalachia the gold-painted helmets of the Irish shined in a dominant 42-28 win against the Mountaineers of West Virginia. 
The win was the first in an oppo­nent's stadium since Notre Dame topped Boston College in Beantown back in 1998 -back when current Irish quarterback Matt Lovecchio was preparing for his junior homecoming game. 
"Overall, I thought this was an even football game coming in," said head coach Bob Davie after the game. "In all honesty I thought .West Virginia had an advantage coming in playing at home. I'm happy to get out of here with a 
win." 
The normally stellar defense gave up touchdowns on each of the Mountaineers' first two possessions ~ led by the strong running of Antonio Brown and receiving of Avon Cobournc. Davie takes credit for the earlv break­dtJwn. · 
"I think the coach has to take respon­sibility for that," said Davie. "I don't 
Getherall, Fisher lead strong offens_iue output 
know that we've had a better week of preparation defensively." 
As the defense was sputtering, the Irish offense kept Notre Dame in the game. After going three-and-out on the first possession, true-freshman quarter­back Lovecchio led the Irish down the field -a drive highlighted by a 21-yard completion to Joey Getherall -to score on a Tony Fisher drive that tied the game at seven. 
The turning point of the game came at the beginning of the second quarter, as '.'vlountaineer quarterback Brad Lewis -who had completed three of four passes for 53 yards in the first quarter alone -sprained his knee on a hit from Lance Legree and Anthony Weaver and was forced out of the game. 
from that point on, the contest was easily in the hands of Lovecchio and the Irish offense. At the 7:55 mark in the second quarter Junior running back Terrance Iloward broke through to run 80 yards for Notre Dame's longest rush, ing touchdown since 1996. Howard credits strong blocking for allowing him to score. 
"The line did a great job of front­blocking and I made a couple of cuts, and I saw the endzone and I was like 'Yeah,'," said Howard. "Then I saw a corner and David Givens made a great block. I was running my heart out, then I started to get fatigued, but I'll work on that." Notre Dame went ahead for good four minutes later after a botched West Virginia punt led to a David Givens 5­vard run into the end zone. 
• Following that play, the Irish defense was able to force the Mountaineers ­now led by trw~-f'reshman quarterback Scott McBrien -to go three and out, Getting the ball back with only 22 sec­onds remaining, Lovecchio found Fisher open running down the sideline, whore he caught the ball and ran past the defender for a 36-yard touchdown to clos<' out the first half. 
"It was a great pass," said risher. "I just reached my hands out there and it fell right into my hands." 
The third quarter was more of the same for the Irish. Starting a drive at West Virginia's 40-yard line, Givens took the ball on a reverse and heaved a pass to a wide-open Getherall for a 52­yard gain -Notre Dame's longest pass­ing play of the season. 
"All I had to do was make it look like it was a run play," said Getherall. "I just drifted out there and he threw a nice ball out there." 
Two plays later, Lo\/ecchio found Fisher open in the endzone for Fisher's third touchdown of the day. 
The Irish capped off their scoring minutes later as Getherall returned a punt 7 3 yards for his second punt return for a touchdown of the season. 
After allowing the Mountaineers two more scores -one each in the third and fourth quarters -the Irish offense seemed to run out of gas. Still, the defense played strong enough to hold on for the victory. 
"We were up on the ropes here 42-14 and we let them go down the field and make some plays on us," said Davie of the team·s defensive lapses late in the game. Still, Davie is confident heading into this week's home game against Air Force. "It's fun to correct things when you win," he said. 


player of the game  quote of the game  stat of the game  
Joey Getherall  "When mistakes are made,  227 Notre Dame rushing yards  
The senior receiver made two key catches leading to  just erase them from your mind and keep going. "  Led by an 80-yard rushing perfor­mance by junior Terrance Howard,  
scores as well as returning a  the Irish ran for 93 more yards  
punt 73 yards for a touchdown.  Matt Lovecchio  than the Mountaineers.  
Irish quarterback  

pag,~ 2 Tuesday, October 24, 2000
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
report card 

quarterbacks: Lo Vecchio completed only eight passes, but each completion sel'minqly led lo an Irish score. The kP!J star for l.011ecchio -::.ero lurrwvcrs. 
running backs: /foward had rhe gamP of his carePr u•itli '-J4 yards u•hilf Fisher scored a coreer-high three touch­doll'ns. ln)lired Jones was not a factor. 
receivers: Cetherafl madl' key catches that led lo touchdowns. Givens com­p[(,ted thP longest pass ofthe season on his 52-yard loss lo Getherall. 
offensive line: ,1fler a dismalfirst quar­ter, the line stepp<'d up 10 allow lloward's breakaway score as well as ltt'(J other rushing touchdowns. 
defensive line: Mo1mtaineer running ' backs ran freely -compiling 134 
( 

+yards on the ground u•hile rushing 
, for three ofthe four West Virginia touchdowns. 
6 

E3-
linebackers: Denman had seuen tack­les but the .Wountaineers t!'ere able lO 
cmwerl far tuo many third-dou1n plays in thP Jirst and fourth quartf'rs. 

defensive backs: lsraPl had c1 key inlt>rception. but West Virginia was able to pass al u•ill during the firs/ and fourth quarters. The 355 pass­ing yards allowed to thf' 1Ho11nlaineers is unacceptable. 
special teams: Two punt returns were called back because ofpenalties. but Gelherali's 73-yard return and
E3+ 

Sere a ·s kicking were keys. 

coaching: Coming offofa week with­out classes, the defense started out shaky. The offense was well pre­pared and the team was inspired. 

overall: Playing with a true 
freshman quarterback in one ofthe most hostile environ­ments in college football, the 
Irish proved to be road warriors once again. 

adding up the nulllbers 
percent humidity in Morgantown on Saturday 
62 

80 
yards run by Howard for longest Irish touchdown 
run since 1996 
number of passing yards 
completed by Wesl 
305
Virginia touchdowns scored by Tony Fisher -a career high tor the junior 

yards completed on Givens' pass to Getherall -the longest pass completion lor lhe Irish 
52 
this season 

18 
rushing yards by expelled Irish back 
Cooper Rego tor the Mountaineers 
number of West Virginia 
1 
quarterbacks hurt during the game 

number of West Virginia male 
cheerleaders injured during 
the game 

IRISH INSIGHT 

MORGANTOWN, WV 

Mountaineer Field is supposed to be a tough place for the visiting team. 'Eers fans are supposed to be some or the loudest and rowdiest fans in America. Freshman quarter­backs are sup­posed to get rat­tled when their teams start out slowly. And if you believed most of the com­pletely unreli­able "sources" on the Internet this summer. Bob Davie was supposed to get fired in June. 
Taking into account all these near certainties, there is no way that Irish fans should have been shouting "Go Irish" across the stadi­um as Davie and his troops rolled to a 42-14 third-quarter lead and linally got the "can't win on the road" monkey off their backs. 
"It's a difficult trip," Davie said. "You have a bunch of coaches on this staff who have played here in Morgantown. including myself. It's a 
· dif'ficult trip coming in here. It was a big game for tllem, so I'm glad that streak is broken." 
Maybe al 5-2. Davie can finally catch a break from those Internet experts whose main claim to foot­ball expertise is that they lived down the hall from Tony Rice in 
1987. 
This team is far from perfect, but Davie is linally showing Lhat he gaining the confidence and compe­tence to make the adjustments needed to succeed. 
With his team trailing 14-7 and the Mountaineers' crowd rocking. this team didn't panic. While the 


defense looked disorganized and sloppy on the first two West Virginia possessions, Davie and his defensive coordinator Greg Mattison made the necassary adjustments and !'or the next 35 minutes, the Irish defense held the Mountaineers scoreless. 
The same offense that looked ten­tative and conservative on its first possession pulled out all the stops to post 35-unanswercd points. The offense has gone from Julius Jones run to the right, Julius Jones run to the left and then Julius Jones run up the middle to David Givens 52-yard passes to Joey Getherall. 
And nothing shuts up a rowdy crowd faster than creative play-call­ing and stilling defense. '!'he Mountaineer crowd that shook the stands with classy cheers like "**ok the Irish" was absent less than five minutes into the second half. The entire student section with the exception of about 300 fans cleared out. I'm not really sure where they were in a rush to go. Morgantown made South Bend in a blizzard seem lively. 
"It's great to win on the road," quarterback Matt Lovecchio said. "At the beginning of' the game it was a hectic environment. The crowd was loud, they were really into it. West Virginia got that quick score. Communication-wise\ both in the huddle and on the line, it's just something you get used to as the game goes on." 
The Irish may have got a little too used to the Mountaineer environ­ment as they let West Virginia come back in the fourth quarter. The same Irish team that looked so strong in the second and third quar­ter looked very vulnerable in the fourth. 
"Late in the game, we kind of ran out of gas," Davie said. "There's been a little flu bug going around, I know I have it, but that's no excus(• 
at all. We need to coach better and 
we need to play better on defense." 
The def'ensr. that was so intnnsc in 
the previous two quartcrs looked 
content to coast away with a victory 
in the fourth. The offense that 
showed so many different looks as it 
racked up 35-straight points tucked 
back into the shell in the fourth and 
couldn't move the ball at all. 
Now that the Irish have shown 
they can win on the road, they need 
to show they can bury a team on lhe 
road. With a 28-point lead, the Irish 
lost their killer instinct. Hathcr than 
moving in for that decisivn touch­
down to put the Mountaineers away, 
the Irish seemed to hold back and 
grind out the final 15 minutes. 
"I think it's a good reality check f'or us on defense," Davie said. "I don't know that we played terrible, but we didn't play well enough to win going down the stretch, I promise you. We were up on the ropes here 42-14 and we let them go do~n the field and make some plays. 
The Irish arcn't supposed to be 5­
2. They aren't supposed to b(~ ranked in the Top 20. They sure aren't supposed to be knocking on the door of a BCS bowl. This was supposod to bo the year that every­one got to kick Notre Dame when it was down. 
Good thing nobody told Davin and Irish what they were suppos(id to be this year. 
And for all those Internet Irish talking about the next Notre Damp football coach in '01. I've got an exclusive for you. I know who the coach will be next year: Bob Davie. 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and nol necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


Tuesday, October 24, 2000 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 

JOSE CUELLAR/fhe Obseiver Joey Getherall flies past a defender while completing a 73-yard punt return during the third quarter of Saturday's 42-28 victory over West Virginia. Getherall's return was the 17th longest in Notre Dame history. -. 
Unlikely stars emerge as strong offense leads to win 
defense to balance a shaky Terrance Howard moved up of the game." offense was a key factor in By KERRY SMITH and often unproductive on the Irish pecking order With that momentum in Saturday's win because the Spores Editor offense. But everv rule has its with an 80-yard run for a swing, the offense utilized the normally stingy defense gave 
exception and Saturday touchdown to tie the game at skills of another Irish player up the most points in any 
Saturday's win against the proved to be it as it was the 14-14 in the second quarter. who had previously been game this season, allowing West Virginia Mountaineers offense that lit the spark that "Certainly Terrance given the chance to make only the Mountaineers to put the marked a change for head ignited the Irish to the 45-28 Howard's run was one of the a small impact: Tony Fisher. ball in the end zone four coach Bob Davie's No. 19 Irish win over the Mountaineers. best runs I've seen," Davie The junior made three touch­times. squad. "I thought our offense really said. "VVc're becoming an downs , leading the Irish in "I think it's a good reality 
In more ways than one. responded," Davie said .. explosive football team once scoring. check for us on defense," 
The team that took the field "Early on in the football game again." "Hopefully this was a break­Davie said. "I don't know that against the !\Iountaineers did we were out of sync on Protecting the ball, Howard out game for me," said Fisher. we played terrible, but we not put on a typical Notre defense. Playing on the road, broke four tackles, dodging "Maybe we'll see a whole lot didn't play well enough to win Dame performance: its usually our offense with the young the Mountaineer defense for more out of me in the near going down the stretch." reliable and overachieving quarterback really responded. Notre Dame's longest touch­future." Despite solid play in the defcnse fa! tered, the offense You can see the big play capa­down run in four years and Fisher rushed for a one­middle quarters, the Irish took command making up for bility we have." the longest run allowed by an yard touchdown and caught showed up unready to play in its slacking counterpart, and Unlikely stars emerged for opposing team in West two passes for scores. the first and ended the game the Irish pulled of their first the Irish as freshman quarter­Virginia's history. David Givens also shone for on a downhill slide in the win in an opponent's stadium back Matt Lovecchio found "That big play felt great," the Irish as he launched a 52-fourth, allowing two touch­since 1998. more help and ran a more Howard said. "I couldn't yard pass to Joey Getherall on downs in each of quarter. 
Hiding a 3-garne winning diversified offensive attack believe I was going to get into a prescribed play that set the "Defense usually steps it up streak, the Irish have secured than in previous games. the end zone. It felt good that Irish up for a touchdown. for us," Getherall said. "Today a 5-2 record relying on a solid Third-string tailback I could change the momentum The increased dominance on we stepped it up the defense." 
AP poll scoring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 
team record points Notre Dame 7 21 14 D 42 14 D 7 7 28
1 Nebraska 7·0 1,747 West Virginia 2 Virginia Tech 7-0 1,605 team statistics ND 
wvu 

3 Oklahoma 6-0 1,599 
first downs 
12 22

4 Miami (Fla.) 5-1 1,532 
rushes-yards 43-227 46-134
5 Clemson 8-0 1,495 
passing-yards 146 305
6 Florida Stale 7-1 1,420 
comp-att-int 9-17-0 16-35-1
7 Oregon 6-1 1,309 8 Florida 6-1 1,247 return yards 122 6 9 Washington 6·1 1,141 pun ls-yards 8-361 7-321 10 Kansas State 7-1 1,072 fumbles-lost 0-0 1-0
.

11 TCU 6-0 1,014 
pen allies-yards 6·66 7-55 
12 Ohio State 6·1 881 
time ofpossession 26:49 33:11 
13 Georgia 6·1 872 
individual statistics
14 Southern Miis. 5·1 853 
passing
15 Michigan 6-2 762 16 Purdue 6-2 688 ND -Lovecchio 8-16-0-94, Givens 1-1-0·52 17 south Carolina 7-1 671 WVU -McBrien 13-31-1-252, B. Lewis 3·4·0·53 18 Oregon State 6·1 66$ 
rushing
19 NOTRE DAME 5-2 555 
lVD -Howard 7-96, Fisher 13-43, Lovecchio 9-39, Givens 8-21
20 Mississippi State 4-2 365 WVU · Cobourne 20-84, A. Brown 4-40, Cooper 9·18, Ours 3-9,
21 N.C. Slate 5-1 289 22 Texas 5-2 206 BLewis 1-1, McBrien 8-(minus 3), Team 1-(minus 151. 23 Northwestern 5-2 204 receiuing24 Arizona 5·2 201 
ND -Getherall 3-79, Fisher 3-35, O'Leary 2-19, Lopienski 1­25 Auburn 6·2 129 
13 wvu -A. Brown 4-94, Ivy 3-45, s. Terry 2·45, Cobourne 2-44,
other teams receiving votes: Colorado 65, 
SBerton 2-17, Ours 2-9, Nastasi 1·51 
Pittsburgh 47, Western Mich, 38, LSU 19, Arizona State 14, Tennessee a, Georgia Teen 6, Texas A&M 6, UCLA 6, Toledo 5, Mississippi 4, Iowa State 3, UTEP 2, 
scoring summary & stats 
ESPN/USA Today poll 
scoring 
summary 

team record points
1st 

1 Nebraska 7·0 1,474 
wvu -10:44 Brown 

2 Virginia Tech 7·0 1,394
24-yd. run Ohlinger kick, 

-3 Oklahoma 6-0 1,307
7-0 

4 Clemson 8-0 1,306
ND -5:34 Fisher 1-yd. 

5 Miami.(Fla.) 5°1 1,255 
run Sella kick, 7-7 

6 Florida State 7-1 1,181
WVU -2:51 Cobourne 

7 Florida 6·1 1,1019-yd. run Ohlinger kick, 
8 Kansas State 7-1 973 
14-7 

,9 Washington 6·1 950 2nd 10 ll(egon 6·1 93.6 ND -7:01 Howard 80· 11 TCU 6·0 881 yd. run Sella kick, 14·14 12 Georgia 6·1 809 ND -2:22 Givens 5-yd. 13••·. •Ohio Stale · 6-1 799 run Setta kick, 21-14 14 SQuthem Miss. 5-1 709 ND -0:15 Fisher 36-yd. 15 Miehigan 6·2 .. 678 pass from Lovecchio 16 Purdue 6·2 541 Sella kick, 28-14 17 Oregon State 6-1 526 


18 south Carolina 7·1 491
3rd 

19 NOTREOAME 5-2 333ND -8:56 Fisher 7-yd. 
20 Texas 5·2 302 pass from Lovecchio 
21 Mississippi St. 4·2 300
Sella kick 35-14 22 N.C. State 5-1 215ND -6:32 Getherall 73­23 Arizona 5·2 140yd. punt return Sella 24 Colorado State 6-1 129kick, 42-14 25 Auburn 6-2 124

lt\-'VU -2:11 Ours 1yd. 
run Ohlinger kick, 42·21 ·· ,other teams receiYing votes: Northwestern 91, 

4th 

Western Michigan 43, Pittsburgh 26, Arizona State 23, WVU -12:08 Ours 2-•Texas A&M 23, Minnesota 20, Mlsslssipp.l 18, yd. pass from McBrien Tennessee 18, tsU 14, East Carolina 12, UCLA 10. 
Ohlinger kick 42·28 
O
THE 

Nocre Dame at Wesc Virginia BSERVER Tuesday, October 24, 2000 
game by uncharacteristically allowin15 West Virginia to score on their first two possession. Hather than giving in. the Irish 
•Jffcnse took over ­42-14 lf•ad aft1•r scoring five 

11w socond and third quarters. Terrance lloward rushed !'or u rnrnPr-high 94 yards. including an 80-yard touchdown run. His roommal1\, Tony Fish<ir, scored 
downs. Hecciver David Givens 
even 

Getherall. "Playing on the road. 
-
IRISH OFFENSE STEPS UP 

photos by . JOSE CUELLAR 



C 

Tuesday, October 24, 2000 page 13 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Flaming Lips perform a spectalce of a rock show 
By TIM BODONY 
Scene Music Critic 
It will not rain indoors, yet Wayne Coyne wears a yellow weatherproof jacket on stage. Natural libnrs will not suflice for the frontman of The Flaming Lips. who will blnr.d ·rrom the head several times throughout the course of the show. But the bloo<l is fake an<l self-applied, a tangib!P rrpresentation of the soft bullet thal plowed through Coyne's brain some years back. and sparked the Lips transfor­mation from Oklahoma City's biggest punk band into the cere­bral and ethereal three-piece band that gave the world The Soft Bulletin in 1999. 
Based on that album, as well as 1996's Zaireeka (an eight song sound experiment requiring the listener to play four CDs simultaneously), one would assume that the Lips arc the archetypical troubled geniuses, disillusioned by a world that can­not fully appreciate their ideas. But at their recent soldout show at Chicago's Vic Theatre, the Lips, and especially Coyne, came across as something entirely dif­ferent. Yes, their genius is apparent, but so too is their love for lhe spectacle that is live rock music. 
The Lips rightfully label their shows nowadays as "multimedia extravaganzas." I\ giant video screen displays visual accompa­niments to each song. Fake flow­ers adorn each mike stand. /\nd most importantly, the band dis­tributes headphones and a tiny receiver to the first few hundred fans, who can listen to an alter­nate. treble-rich version of the mix that is broadcast by a short­range FM transmitter. With the headphones, each instrument is clearly distinguishable, the left and right channels are kept sep­arate, and the vocals come through perfectly. 
Regardless of how good it sounds, it still feels terribly awk­ward to see the band in front of you, and yet receive the sound the same way you would if you were listening to their compact disc in the library, But in an Andy Warhol sort· of way, the media overload becomes quite captivating. 
With only three guys on stage, the Lips have to use prerecorded 


Photo ccurtesy of Flaming Lips Through the use of innovative sounds and outrageous stage antics, the Flaming Lips have again proven themselves as one of the most unique and creative bands in the rock scene. 
UPCOMING CONCERTS 

*NSYNC Limp Bizkjt 
Georae c1•nton Bon Jov• · 
Noe· 
Otis Day and 1:heKnta11ts 
Los Lobos Jayhawks Hootte and the 
Bllowfish 

3 Doors Down • 
,.. 
Che•l"'f Popp•n Daddies 
South Ben:a·· ·•··· 
Conseco 
Conseco 
Yoaue Theater 
Conseco.· 
Yoaue Theater 
Chicago 
,, ;•(#~\:;;:~:;:t{}~l;ii;,: <di 
....,....,..... 


.,.......... .. sammy·~.~s.a~ -·Ten·· 1.;1 oct•..,s+tt·. 
Nov;I Nov. 14. 
·11ot;:,21: :, 
Nov, :10· 

VIC Thener 
IUviera 

tracks, mainly drum tracks, to supplement the live performance. Again, a strange feeling at a concert -unless it's a Britney Spears show. But the Lips find creative ways to make it work. Video clips of' Steven Drozd playing drums slip in and out of most songs. while on stage he typical­ly handles a guitar pa.rt and triggers keyboard samples with his feet at the samP-time. Michael Ivins plays the bass, and Coyne is the ringmaster. He keeps his hands free so that he can punish the gong one moment and encourage a mechanical bird to fly the next. With gusto reminiscent of Cha.riots of Fire, Coyne raises his arms in victory at the end of each song, as if a landmark achieve-

Set List 
October 12, 2000 Chicago -Vic Theatre 
Set: 
Race for the Prize The Gash The Spark That Bled A Spoonful Weighs a Ton Lightning Strikes the 
Postman Feel Yourself Disintegrate Sleeping on the Roof The Spider Bite Song She Don't Use Jelly What is the Light? The Observer Waiting for a Superman How Will We Know? When You Smile 
ment in human history has just unfolded. 
Without exaggerating too much, each song is indeed an exhibition all its own, complete with video accompaniment a:nd prop-aided gimmickry from Coyne. For example, the steady beat of "The Gash" nicely com­plements a circa 1983 jazzercise video, and the cheery "A Spoonful Weighs a Ton" provides the ideal soundtrack for a Teletubbies montage. 
Since the majority of the evening's material was drawn from The Soft Bulletin, it was uncertain how the band's only hit, "She Don't Use Jelly", would fit into this sci-fi circus. In typical Lips fashion, "She Don't Use Jelly" became a hilarious display of self-mockery featuring show­ers of confetti, balloons, and even a few individuals in teddy bear suits frolicking through the crowd before magically disap­
pearing at the song's end. 
All together, the spectacle put forth by the Lips is entirely dif­ferent than the arena rock vari­ety exemplified by the Rolling Stones. Between frequent trips to the gong and hand puppet dis­plays, Coyne stands behind the microphone and sings with the utmost sincerity, with one hand on his heart and the other extended out to the audience. The words he sings probe at deepest questions of the human condition. What are the limits of human understanding? Who can rescue us from our sorry fate? Though the answers might be present, lingering under the sur­face of songs such as "Waiting for a Superman" and "Race for the Prize," we can worry about those things later. 
For now, put on your head­phones, fix your eyes upon the video screen, and enjoy the show. 
::·•:·::::.,·.·::-:-,:::.,,_:c,_,'::-:-,:: .,·:: 
<c1 oic11ris1mas· 

· .......• ...... .... ·. '''"· ........•.. .... -ces-t •HHs
•·· •· 

Netro,"· 
... Oct,.,29.tr 
Fa1boy Slllm -llalhray Be1wenihe Gu-teer 
House· of Blues ·. No.-,. ii 
·::·:<; ;-lldI'.Che•:St;ars
IUv•era Nov~•·• 

.Spice Girls •(Forever
IUvtera . Nov•..12 
Metro No•t I 2 • .s:,.11~/H~Hj<.•·• l;f~2-~•~•m 

page· 14 Monday, September 25, 2000
The Observer . SPORTS 
-=-===================================================================================================== 
NF:L 

3-0-point 4th quarter pushes Jets over Dolphins 
Asso, iatcd Jlrcss 
EAST HUTIIEHFOHD, N.J. 
There must be something to 
this late-game magic the New 
York Jets claim they possess. 
Down 30-7 after three quar­ters. the Jets staged yet anoth­er incredible rally and stunned the Miami Dolphins 40-:H in overtime Monday night in a showdown for first place in the AFC East. A team that couldn't do anything right for nearly 45 minulcs was unstoppable in the final quar­ter. 
It was the third time the Jets 
(6-1) have rallied to win in the 
fourth quarter of what has 
become a charmed season. 
They tied the game on Vinny Testavorde's fifth touchdown pass of the night. a 3-yarder to i:ackle Jumbo Elliott. who wai; eligible on the play. with 42 .,cconds to go. 
Early in overtime, Marcus Coleman of the Jets intercept­ed :t pass, then fumbled on his return and the Oolphins (5·2) recovered. But Coleman got another pick five plays later. 
Wayne Chrebet turned a short pass into a 28-yard com­pletion on third down. setting up John llall's 40-yard field goal to cap the almost unfath­omable victory. 
11 was the second time in the NFL's prime time spotlight that the Jets won so improba­bly N they beat New England in Game 2 almost the same way. But that game ended far earlier than this one, which strntched until 1:20 a.m. EDT. 
The Jets rallied with a preci­sion they totally lacked for the first ihree quarters -and against a defense that had yielded just 51 points and three TDs the entire season. 
"I thought New England was a great comeback. but this was incredible," Chrebet said. "We took it upon ourselves and made the plays when we had to. lt was gutcheck at halftime and we decided to go out swinging." 

They scored a knockout of Miami's brilliant defense. which crumbled in the fourth quarter. That unit allowed 30 points in the fourth quarter. when the Jets had 20 first downs; Miami one. 
It was the first time since 1981, when Atlanta did it, that a team scored 30 points or more in a fourth period. 
Testaverde hit Laveranues Coles for a 30-yard score, the rookie's first NFL touchdown; found rookie Jermaine Wiggins for a 1-yard TD. his firsl pro score; hit Chrcbet for 24 yards to tie it at 30 with 
3:55 to go; then connected with the 300-pound Elliott to tie it at 37. 
Tcstaverde finished 36-of-59 for 378 yards, five TDs and three interceptions. 
Jay Fiedler, looking early in the game much like the legend he replaced, connected with Leslie Shepherd for a 46-yard TD one play after Chrebet's touchdown. That score was set up by Brock Marion's 4 7 -yard kickoff return. 
Dan Marino often beat the Jets with his arm, and Fiedler appeared to have done it, too. He also had a 42-yard TD throw to Shepherd in the first half and ran an efficient offense for three quarters. 
But the Jets displayed the fortitude and resilience that has marked their season by staging yet another comeback. 
Lamar Smith paced a sur­prisingly crisp Miami attack that gained 299 yards in the first half alone. 

Jay Fielder of the Miami Dolphins tries to elude the Jets' defense. The Dolphins squandered a 
27-polnt fourth quarter lead, losing in overtime, 40-37. 
Smith scored on runs of 68 sides of the ball for most of and 3 yards and finished with the game. And as hot as the 155 yards. Oronde Gadsden Jets were later, the Dolphins caught seven passes for 119 were at the outset. They led yards. 17-0 and gained 207 yards in 
The Dolphins thoroughly the opening 15 minutes -the befuddled New York on both most by any NFL team in the opening period this season. 
It took the Jets until 8:04 elapsed in the second quarter to register a first down. By the end of the long night, howev­er, they had become unstop­pable. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 r-m. at 1hc Nocre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cencs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right 10 edit all classifieds for concenc without issuing refunds. 
(!LASSIFIEDS 
LOST & FOUND 
LOST-Canon zoom camera on 9/~:9. Drop off in 220 Main Blclg. Or call 513-703-2990. No questions asked. 
FOUND TFIEK BIKE in parking lot one wE,ek ago. CJ1LL MATT 4-4894 
LOST on campus at Stanford game 1 1/2 inch thick gold bricelet REWARD call Carol at 312-946-1800. 
TICKETS 
WANTED 
NI) FOOTBALL TKTS 2{19-92B0 
Ul:iGENT!!! N,:IE!d Air Force tickets Call Andrew at 4-4998 
SELLING ND FOOTBALL TKTS 2!;1-1570 
VICTORY TKTS BIJY•SELL'TRADE NJ FOOTBALL 2:!2-0964 WNW.victorytickets.com 

BUY/SELL ND TICKETS 273-3911 
ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED A.M. -232-2378 P.M. -288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE A M. -232-2378 P.M. -288-2726 
2 ND/USC Tix + Airfare GOTO alumni.nd.edu/-ndc_satc 
I NEED 4 BC TIX TOGETHER. CAN PAY ONLY $200. CALL 243-1621. 
NEED AF TICKETS, call with price 634-3088, ask for Dylan. 
ND/AIR FORCE 4 TICS ALUMNI END ZONE BEST OFFER 415.677.1310 
FOR RENT 
ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE AND CLOSE TO 
CAMPUS 
http://mmmrentals.homepage.c om/ email:mmmrentals@aol.com 232-2595 That Pretty Place, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space avail­able for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-9487. 
WANTED 
UCONNECTIONS.COM 
Hiring part-time positions, no 
experience required. Contact 
zallen@nd.edu for info. 
Need childcare in our Granger home, Tues. and Thurs. Must have transportation. Call 271 • 
1935. 
NANNY WANTED: 25-35 hrs/week. Contact Krista @ 425-793-1208 for more info or email KROBKE@CERW­ERCOM. 
Age 55 or over? Earn $10! Researchers in the Department of Psychology are conducting a study of posture control, and need healthy men and women age 55 or over to participate. This study takes about one hour. For more information or to schedule an appointment, please call Eric Covey at 631­4732 or Dr. Steven Boker at 631-4941. 
COACH: Need Jr. High boys basketball coach. Responsible, dependable student or grad to coach 7-8th grade basketball B-team, Nov. 13-Feb 23; for south side elementary school, located near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street. Must be available for practices Mon-Thurs from 2:20-3:15. Game schedule varies. 
FOR SALE 
COLLEGE SCHOLARSHIPS 300,000 + private sector schol­arships available for under­graduate and graduate stu­dents at accredited colleges in the USA regardless of their GPA, finances, age or citizen­ship. Write or call for FREE information and application Scholarship Database Service P.O. Box 432 Notre Dame, IN 46556-0432 Barnyard8961@hotmail.com 1-800-936-3706 
FOR SALE 
SPRING BREAK 2001 ­Jamaica, Cancun, Barbados, More. Hiring Campus Reps ­2 Free Trips! Free Meals· Book by 11/3. Call 1-800-426-7710 or sunsplashtours.com. 
Videotape your next on or off 
campus party! 

www .icecoldvideo.com 
#1 Spring Break 2001 ­
Cancun, Mazatlan, Acapulco, 
Jamaica, Florida & S.padre. 
Reliable TWA flights. Best 
Prices. Earn $$$ or FREE 
trips-call for details! 
1.800.SURFS.UP 

Spring Break 2001 Book group of 15 and GO FREE! Book before Nov. 3 for FREE Meals! Visit us at sunsplashtours.com or call for free info @ 1-800-426-7710 
'88 Ford Taurus, 6-cyl., stereo w/cassette player. Well main­tained by responsible female. $2,000/obo. Lv. msg at 291-5366. 
PERSONAL 

Impress potential employers. Keep in contact with friends and relatives. Student business cards are NOW available at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
Rompf; You are in all of our prayers. 
The Observer 
Need Airforce tickets. Call 
Maureen at 3743 Need 2 BC tickets. Please call 284-4334 as soon as possible. 
I miss my roommate. Hey T -When you said you were sick over break you didn't 
really explain that you were actually lovesick. Did you just forget? Yeah that must be ii. lnatalie where's my $$ I know your business has been 
slow. Do you miss the Atlanta Zoo? J -I have 5 words for you ... 
hmmph hmphm hmp hmpph hmm. 
so there. it's late and we haven't even started. 
I think that's fine why is our room so hot? almost the end. But realy the 
beginning. That was strangely deep. 


Tuesday, October 24, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 

WHEN? 

The week of January 4-11 Specific 48 hour period Set by each Site. 
KUCHIPUDI 

A Tour to USA by Padma Bhushan Dr. Vempati Chinna Satyam 
and Troupe September 2nd to December 15th 
Washington HaU, University ofNotre Dame Tuesday, October 24th, 7:30 PM 
Take the 

URBAN PLUNOI:...,__,.. 
INTERESTED? NEED TO KNOW MORE? COME TO AN INFORMAT10N SESSION! 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 
7:30 PM 
AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Registration Forms available at the CSC & at www.ndtoday.com 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: MONDAY. OCTOBER 30th 


Albany •Rlbuquerque.Boston+Buffalo+Chicago+Cincinnati+Cleueland Columbus . Dallas ...oes Moines•Detroit..,6rand Rapids . Honolulu Houston ,.. lndianapolis•Mobile . New York ...oakland•Philadelphia PhoeniK•Pittsburgh . St. Petersburg.south Bend•San Antonio San Diego""Tacoma+Washington o.c.•AND MORE! 
WOMEN'S GOLF 

Belles secure third place in MIM rankings 
By KATIE MILLER 
Sports Writer 

The Belles golf team took third place in the MIAA after a strong showing at a tournament at Olivet, the highest any Saint Mary's team has placed in the conference in any sport. 
The Belles placed second with an overall team low of 350. Albion placed first with a low of 326; Hope followed the Belles in third with a score of 359. Freshman Liz Hanlon led the team with a low of 83, followed by junior Megan Keleher with 85; Freshman Jennifer DeWitt and senior Natalie Cook both shot 91. 
"l enjoyed playing more golf than ever. Getting 83 my last round was a nice way to end my first season," said Hanlon. "I think the team did great. We had the ability to play well; we came back after a tough match at Calvin College." 
The Belles repeated last year's third place finish in the league, but scored more points than last season. Albion College placed first in the MIAA followed by Ilope. 
"I think the fact that we main­tained our position in the confer­ence wai, great. We know we're a talented team. Throughout the season we held third place and pushed for second. We met our goals," said coach Theresa Pekcarek. 
Four Saint Mary's players placed individually in the MIAA's top 15. Hanlon, DeWitt, senior Kyle Veltri and junior Mary Claire Hathaway all received MIAA honors. Both Veltri and DeWitt earned second-team all MIM honors in addition to their individual rankings. The Belles will lose two seniors but all other members will be returners for the 2001 season. With the return of a lot of young players, Pekarek sees a good future for the team. 
"I was very pleased with the underclassmen. They gained great collegiate experience. I only see us doing better in the future. We have a young team, but a deep team," Pakarek said. 

-. 
Men's Basketball Walk-On Tryouts Wednesday, October 25, 2000 At the Main Arena (Joyce Center) 
8:00 PM 

•Bring your gear ready to practice 
•Practice will be run by Head Coach Mike Brey and the Irish Staff 
•Any questions please call the office at 1-6225 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 25, 2000 
==================================================================================================== 
Large One Topping Pizza 
every tuesday 
271-0300 
MEN'S TENNIS 
TaLborga makes racket in tourney 
By RACHEL BIBER Sporn Writer 
After the Intercollegiate 

Tennis Association Men's AII-America11 Championships in Stone Moun­t u i n , G a . , 
conclld­e d t h e r e was no need to ask for in forma­t i t n ab o u t Irish ,iunior Javier Taborga. 
Taborga made a name for himssll' during the grand slam event. which occurred durir.g October 12-15. He ousted Auburn's 31st­ranktid Georges Matijasevic in thn first round and won a spot in the round of 16 by defeating Stanford's No. 1 player, defending champion and third-seeded K.J. IIippnnsteel. 
With the win, Taborga became the first Irish sin­gles player to reach the round of 16 al the ITA All­American since Ryan Sachirc in 1998. who went on to the final of the tour­nament that year. 
"I :;crved well and that opened up things for my forehand and allowed me to attack." Taborga said. "llippcnstecl is a great play(,r and I knew I'd have 


to play great to win. I went out there and just tried to play the type of game where he was going to have to beat me." 
Before even entering the main draw, Taborga had his work cut out for him, having lo earn a place in the first round by winning two qualifying matches. lie knocked off East Tennessee State's 65th-ranked Gustavo Gomez and Kansas' Ed Dus to set up h i s 
match up Ambert and
"Hippensteel is a 
against H e n e
great player and I
Matijasevic Combette, in the first knew I'd have to play who they round. squeezed by
great to win. I went 
Taborga's with a 7-6, 7­
out there and just
hot streak 6 win. came to a tried to play the type In the third halt in the round the
ofgame where he was 
second !TA Irish juniors
going to beat me." 
Grand Slam rallied for an of the sea­impressive son in the Javier Taborga victory over round of 16 Duke's 19th­
Irish tennis player
w h e n 
Georgia's Bo !lodge outlasted him in a classic duel by a 6-3, 3-6, 6-1 score. 
Taborga also paired up with fellow junior team­mate Aaron Talarico in the doubles portion of the tour­nament, and the ninth­ranked and fifth-seeded duo became the first Irish team to reach the semifi­nals of a grand-slam event since Todd Wilson and Andy Zurcher accomplished 
the feat in the 1994 NCAA doubles championships. 
Playing in just their sec­ond grand-slam tourna­ment. Taborga and Talarico fought their way through the first three rounds on the opening day of play. 
They defeated Mississippi State's 43rd-rankcd Chris McDonald and Matt Soto 6­
2. 6-2, to set up a second round matchup against another Georgia pairing of' 
Homain 
ranked duo of  
Hamsey Smith  
and  Michael  
Yani  by  a  :1-6, 6-1,  6-4  
score.  
Notre  Dame  pulled  

through for a crucial break of serve at 4-4 in the third set and hung on for the win. 
Taborga and Talarico's run was then ended with a grueling three set loss to Florida's eventual champi­ons Oliver Levant and Nathan Overholser by the score of 3-6, 6-4, 6-1. 

MEN'S INTERHALL PLAYOFFS 
Keough battles O'Neill in rescheduled contest 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 

Spons Writer 
When the Keough and O'Neill football teams stepped onto the Stepan Football Field two weeks ago, they were eager to battle it out for West Quad bragging rights. Unfortunately, the RecSports officials were not. 
The two squads showed up to a field with no yardage lines or markings, and no 
referees to monitor "! think ifwe just go scrim rnagn and the game. They our defense held
out there and have a 
were so ready to them well, but play that they tried good time playing the our offense will to set up a field with game we'll do what we have to produce flags and cones, but for us."
need to do."
the HecSports peo­If Keough ple would not allow hopes to it as an official Ryan Yorkery advance, they gam£J. RecSports will need to
Keough captain
wanted them to move into the Loftus Sports Center and play on a small, artificial field. Since it was midterm week, and they had already wasted an hour. the teams postponed the showdown. 
Tonight, they will finally get to play it out at 7 p.m. on Stepan Field. These bitter rivals have had two weeks to simmer in anticipation of their long-await­ed meeting, and they are more than ready to clash. 
The game has taken on an even more important meaning. as Keough will have a chance to supplant Stanford of its No. 8 seed in the playoffs if it wins by 18 points. O'Neill, on the other hand, will be trying to spoil it for their neighbors. K<wugh cap­tain Hyan Yorkcry is not very concerned about the points his team will need to put up to advance. 
'Tm not that concerrrnd about trying to score 18. I think if we just go out th•crc and have a good time playing the game we'll do what we need to do," he said. "We played O'Neill earlier 
this year in a 
break a two 
gamn scoring drought in which they were shut out. Running backs Kevin McAbee and Mike Prone have moved the ball successfully f'or the 'Hoos, but turnovers have cost the team gravely in their recent games. 
The Angry Mob of O'Neill has not won a game this year, so to end the season with a win over their West Quad neighbors while knocking them out of the play­offs should be extra sweet. 
If Keough should play their way into the playoffs, they will have their hands l'ull with the No. 1 seed, Dillon llall. 

Call today and 11am-2am sun-thurs 1mention this ad!! 11am-3am fri-sat 

Tuesday, October, 24 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
page 13 

This Week in Campus Ministry 
September 25-0ctober 30 103 Hesburgh library 
Sign-up, Freshmen Retreat #31 (Nov. 3-4, 2000) Targeted Dorms: Alumni, Breen-Phillips, Farley, Keough, Howard, Dillon, Lyons, McGlinn, Pasquerilla West, Sorin 
Monday-Tuesday. October 23-24 11 :30 pm-1 O:OOpm 
St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall Eucharistic Adoration 
Tuesday. October 24, 7:00 p.m. Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday. October 24. 7:00 p.m. Siegfried Hall Chapel 
Confirmation-Session #3 
Wednesday, October 25, 7:00 p.m. Recker's Hospitality Room 
Africentric Spirituality: Freshmen Intro Mid­Semester Reception 
Wednesday, October 25. 10:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Thursday, October 26, 7:00 p.m. -9:30 p.m. Montgomery Theater, LaFortune 
Introduction to Natural Family Planning 
Sunday, October 29 
"Dia de los Muertos" Celebration 
l :00 p.m.. LaFortune Blessing ofaltar & procession 
l :30 p.m.• Stanford-Keenan Chapel 
Spanish Mass 

Sound Profound 
Contemplation u• country who•e center ue'Deryu,bere tmdwhose circranference unou,bere. rou do notfind it by tn1t1elling htby mauling stilL 
Thomas Merton (1915-1968) 

0MPU5 
tv1lN:lSTRY 
112 Badin Hall 631-5242 
103 Hesburgh l.ibrary 631-7800 
email ministry.1@nd.edu 
web www.nd.edu/~ minis.try Morch 2001 Coleman-Morse Center 
Christian Spirituality: 
A Passion /or the Human 
Presenter: Rev. Lorenzo Albaccte, 

Pn·est and theology professor at St. Joseph's Seminary in New York 
Panel of Respondents: 

Rev. Timothy Scully, CSC, 
Executive V;ce-President and Professor of G?~.ernment 

Rev. Virgil Elizondo, 

Professor o/ Theology and 1997 winner ofNotre Dame's Laetare Medal 
M. Katherine TJlman, 

Assoc. Professor in the. Program ofLiberal Studie: 
1 

Monday Novembe~ 1,,-~
. . k.
4

:00 p.m. ~~•:• Auclitoriurn ':,:,.. 
•.. Hesburgh Centet711 :,,<;·/ for l:rilernational.Peace ~lies
' -i ·. ..•· :., \.' 

. 

Reception tJfollowin the Hesburgh.C~~te Students are highly encou~aged to a All are welcome ·... >< :t, 
r:ry:i 
Great Idea
L2.J 

An evening of introductory infonnation on the 
Ovulation and Sympto-thermal methods 
of Natural Family Planning. 
NFP, based on observable fertility signs, is helpful in achieving or postponing pregnancy. Open to faculty, staff, and students. There is no charge, but materials are available for $ 10. 
Montgomery Theater, Lafortune Thursday, October 26, 7:00 p.m. ~ 9:30 p.m. 
Co-sponsored by Campus Ministry and the Natural Family Planning Program of St. Joseph County (237-7401) 

Prayer Opportunity 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Mondays, 11 :JO pm through Tuesday, 10:00 pm at St. Paul's Chapel~ Fisher Hall. 
For information,call Mary Tarsha@ 634-2469 or Lisa Demidovich@ 634-0847. 
~ 

WJ Prayer &Discussion 
Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual Students and their Friends. 
Meet weekly on Wednesday Night for discussion andprayer. 
Coming Soon: Sixth Annual Retreat• November 17th-18th. 
For more information, please contact: Tami Schmitz 1-3016 Schmitz.8@nd.edu• Tom Doyle,C.S.C. 1-4112 Do le.22@nd.edu 
------------------------------------,---------------------------­
Tuesday, October 24, 2000
The Observer . SPORTS 

VOLLEYBALL 

:Belles win 1, drop 3 over break 
"We played better against By Alicia Ortiz Calvin this time," junior outside Spores Writer defensive hitter Angela Meyers 
said. "We kept up with them 
The Belles volleyball team and passed well." ri.ropped three matches during " We started well," senior !'all Break but also avenged a defensive specialist Victoria previous loss to Olivet College. Butcko said, "But we were not Coach Julie Schoreder-Biek focused that day." attributed the Belles' improve­The Belles picked up their 
ment  to  some  lone victo­ 
changes in the line-up. "I altered the line up dramati­cally during Fall  "It felt good to come back and beat Olivet. Everyone had a great game."  ry Oct. 18 against 2­11 Olivet College, 15-8, 15­ 
Hreak.  I moved  12 and 15­ 
LeighAnn Matesich into the  Angie Meyers outside hitter  10. "It  felt  

setting role and put Jaime Dineen in as an attacker," Schroeder­E:iek said. "This line up allows everyone on the team a more significant role. Everyone plays and everyone contributes." 
The Belles played a tough game against Calvin, the sec­cnd-ranked team in their l,~ague on Oct. 13 but lost 15-8, 15-12 and 15-10. 
America's Leader in Student Travel 

IHUGE SALE! 
Sale Dates: 10/24-10/28 

!London $185 
fcom NYC 
Paris $345 
from LAX 

Clireat fares from all over the U.S. to Amsterdam, Birmingham, llrussels, Dublin,Dusseldorf, Rome, Frankfurt, Glasgow, Lisbon, Madrid, Manchester, Milan, Shannon, Zurich. 
Fares are RT fcr mdweek travel and subject IO ava,lab<ify Tkts are Non-Relundaole and exclus,ve of taxe,,;surcharges wllich range ~om $30-$85 Thts must be booked and pa,d lcr from Oct 24th•28tti Departures from Nov 1 • March 31, 2001. No departures from Dec 12th lhtough Dec 24th Musi hold valid ISIC.ITIC. 0< IYTC card Some age 3'1d other restncuons may apply 

good to 
come back and beat Olivet," Meyers said. "Everyone had a great game." 
Fourteenth-ranked Elmhurst College defeated Saint Mary's 15-8, 15-7 and 15-3. 
"Both teams were not play­ing to their ability," Meyers said, "We were having good plays, but not any that would gain points for our team." 
On Oct. 21, the Albion College Britons avenged their loss earli­er in the season, and easily defeated the Belles in three games, 15-4, 15-5 and 15-6. 
"It was a very important match for us. winning it would have most likely moved us up to sixth place in the conference," Schroeder-Biek said. "We did not have all six players on the court making a full effort in working toward the win. We are working hard in practice in our efforts to finish our season strong." 
Coach Schroeder-Biek is now focusing on the challenges the Belles will face in the coming week. 
"We have some big chal­lenges ahead of us, Wednesday we face the No. 1 team in the conference, and on Saturday we meet Albion again with Kenyon College," Schroeder­Biek said. "We will most likely play the No. 2 team Calvin in the first round of the tourney next week." 
The Belles stand at 3-10 going into their game at Hope College on Wednesday. 

NCAA FOOTBALL Big Ten admits bad calls in MSU game 
Associated Press 

EAST LANSING, Mich. 
The Big Ten's supervisor of football officials told Michigan State Monday that a bad call was made on a pivotal play during Michigan's 14-0 win over the Spartans in Ann Arbor. 
Coach Bobby Williams said after the game that the Wolverines did not legally recover T.J. Duckett's fumble at Michigan's 8 midway through the third quarter Saturday, when the Wolverines were ahead 7-0. Dave Parry. the conference official, validat­ed Williams' claim during a phone conversation Monday morning. 
"lie concurred on the call that was not made in the game that went against us," Williams said. "Jle was clearly out of bounds." 
On the pivotal play, Michigan's Victor Hobson stripped the ball, Larry Foote dove to keep it inbounds and Eric Wilson pounced on the football. Television replays appeared to show Foote's right arm touching the sideline while he kept the ball in play with his left arm. 
"J don't think we'll get to line up and play that play all over again," Williams said jokingly without smiling. "We'll just have to wait until next year." 
The first-year head coach was under the impression that the Big Ten would do some­thing to acknowledge the errors. 
But that will not be the case. 
"It's only in highly unusual situations that we make state­men ts like we did after the Michigan-Illinois game, when the commissioner feels a mis­take directly impacts on a game." 



Monday, September 25, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
one big save. I just try to stay focused." 
Wagner didn't just make one big save, she made several to stave off defeat and a Connecticut team that considers Notre Dame its biggest rival. Before a raucous crowd of almost 2,500 on senior night at Marrone Stadium, the Huskies came out determined to stun a road-weary Irish team. Though the Huskies were just 12-5-1 coming in, Waldrum anticipated a battle. 
"Their win-loss record is deceiving," he said. 'They were very strong tonight.'' 
"I think they came out to play," said Wagner. "They always have something extra for us." 
Riding a wave of emotion from seniors playing in their last home game, the Huskies enjoyed the game's best chances, but it was Wagner who came through in the end. Husky senior forward Jen Carlson launched a 30-yard shot from the left flank with just seconds remaining on overtime only to see a leaping Wagner knock away the ball to preserve the tie. 
Uconn's upbeat tempo caused problems for the Irish all night long. 
"This was the first game where we could not find the right com­binations or formations and much of that is due to Uconn's play," said Waldrum. "This was a pretty wide open game and an enjoyable one for the fans to watch." 
While the tic snapped Notre Dame's 25 game win streak over Big East opponents, Waldrum didn't see the tie as all being for naught. 
"This game could prove to be a good lesson for us," said Waldrum whose team had played a rugged stretch of four games in eight days. "This has been a tough stretch for us with the travel and the injuries to key players. We're looking forward to having more spacing between games that comes with the post­season." 

Waldrum remained confident in his team's potential to succeed despite the minor setback. 
'This is a special group and we are looking forward to the next few weeks," he said. "Right now this team needs some time physi­cally and mentally to get refo­cused." 
Tying the Huskies was the only knot in an otherwise smooth week for the Irish. Trailing for the first time all season in a home match against the Golden Eagles of Boston College the Irish rallied to pull out a 2-1 victory. Meotis Erikson tied the score at one before freshman Amanda Guertin booted home the winner. 
A trip east brought continued success as Notre Dame downed Syracuse and Yale by scores of3­0 and 4-0 respectively before tying Connecticut. 
The Irish now must contend with another quality opponent as they travel to Ann Arbor to take on the Wolverines of Michigan Tuesday. 
The game is marks the end of the regular season with Big East quarterfinal action kicking off this weekend. 
ROWING 

Irish grab top spots in open weight pairs 
By JEFF BALTRUZAK 
Sports Writer 

On the Grand River in East Lansing, the Irish rowing team took on an elite Michigan State squad on their home course last Saturday. 
Notre Dame emerged with first and second place per­formances in t.he open weight pairs, but finished behind multiple boats in 
both  the  open  fours  and  
o  p  e  n  
eights.  

Michigan "The course was really races. S t a t e 
windy, and there were a "Those 
proved to boats were
lot ofwaves on the river. 
be fierce only put competi­Some people weren't together on tion for the Thursday,"
used to that. " 
Irish, and said Bula. race condi­"It didn't tions did Clare Bula give them as nothing to senior captain much time 
and edging the first Spartan boat by three seconds. 
Notre Dame's lightweight rowers, having turned in an outstanding fall including a win in an open four event against Wisconsin, did not compete against Michigan State. 
The Irish mixed some lightweights into open weight boats, which resulted in new combinations of row­ers competing together, though the first varsity open eight boat remained the same from the past two 
N o t r e Dame's luck. 

"The course was really windy, and there were a lot of waves on the river," said senior captain Clare Bula. "Some people weren't used to that." 
The open pair of Ashlee Warren and Becky Luckett finished first, navigating the 3,300-meter course in 13:04, beating the nearest Spartan boat by 11 seconds. Their exceptional effort came as no surprise to Bula. 
"They've been successful all season," Bula said. 
Luckett and Warren have won two open pair races so far this fall in Chicago and East Lansing, and placed third in Head of the Rock regatta. 
The Irish duo of Ann Marie Dillhoff and Diane Price fol­lowed the lead of Luckett and Warren, taking second 

as we'd like 
to prepare." 
In the open fours competi­tion, the Irish could only manage fourth and fifth places in a field of six. Similarly, in the open eights, Notre Dame's first varsity eight crew finished 31 sec­onds behind the Spartan 's top finishing boat. 
In several races, Irish row­ers competed twice, and it was not clear if Michigan State stacked their best row­ers in the fours, rather than spreading them out over both the fours and eights competition. 
"In the fall, lineups change a lot, and I don't think any of their rowers had to double up," Bulla said. 
The Irish novices contin­ued their string of strong races, however. The first novice eight boat finished first in the A flight, defeating three Michigan State crews. 


ND students: 
Come play RUGBY! 
GIVE BLOOD 
PLAT1ttJGBY 
* 
No Experience Necessary 
Men Contact: Women Contact: Dave Bishop Frances Devlin Dbishop@nd.edu Devlin-6@nd.edu 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 25, 2000 
CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish nab I0th place in meet 
• Women's team falters in 33rd at Pre-l~ationals 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Aswciate Sports Ediror 
Hanked 10th among com­pctinf.( teams in the l're­Nation 11 Meet heading into the ra,;c, the Notre Dame 
men's cross country team 
f'inishcd right on schedule with a I0th-place finish. 
"We were the 10th-rated team poing into the meet," junior Lu kc Watson said, "but \Hl were hoping to do better than that." 
A third plucn finish in tho ad idas/Notrc Dame Invitational behind only Stanford and Arizona left the No. 17 Irish believing they were capable of upsetling their opposition. But they had no such luck. 
"We tliought we were underrated going into the meet,'' Walson said, "and l still tbink we were under­rated because we didn't have our best perfor­mance. " 
Colnrado captured the meet title, followed by Northern Arizona. Notre Dame found some familiar !'aces ahead of it, as adi­das/1\ otre Dame Invitational foes Stanford. Arizona and Duke finished third sixth and seventh, respcdively. 
Big East opponent Georgetown placed fifth. 
Wa·,son. the individual ch arr pion in the ad id as/Notre Dame Invitational, earned fourth place in the Pre-National Meet. lie finished the 10.000-meter course, the first l)f the season for the Irish. in 30 minutes, 52.3 seconds. 
Jur: ior Marc Striowski placed I0th in the meet with a time of 31 :16.0. fol­lowed by Patrick Conway in 8~: nd. Todd Mobley in 1OOtlt and Scan Zanderson in 222nd. 
Thu women's cross coun­try t,~am wanted to erase 
e-mail: fw®southampron.liunet.edu 

J~~ 
\\.ww.southampton.edu/fw 

LOBAL EDUCATION FOR SOCIAL CHANGE 
its performance from the board after finishing 33 rd in a field of 60 teams. 
"It was pretty miser­able," top runner Jennifer Handley said. "The race, I'd like to forget it." 
Coach Tim Connelly felt the same way. 
"They all ran poorly," Connelly said. "We have a lot of young kids who were just totally overwhelmed by lining up with 60 teams." 
Not only did the Irish lin­is h farther back in the pack than expected, fresh­man Megan Johnson failed to complete the race. 
She passed out about 300 meters before the finish line due to dehydration. 
The slew or competition overwhelmed the Irish. 
"We were just intimidat­ed," Handley said. "It was just a huge field. We 

UVE, STIJDY AND WORK 
ABROAD WHILE EARNING COLLEGE CREDIT 
• Year and semester-long programs in 
JAPAN, CHINA, ISRAEL, INDIA, ENGLAND OR COSTA RICA. 
• Year-long program in Comparative Religion & Culture in TAIWAN, THAILAND, INOIA and ISRAEL 
Ex()crkn""1 karrung thm"l(h cultural immersum, 
a.;tuk,mic seminars. and indcp,endent fieid study makes Friend., W,,,.jJ the cducaii,mal e.p,Titnce ofa l,ferime 
FRIENDS WORLD PROGRAM loNGlsIAND
~RSI'D!f­

haven't been ranked all season and then all of a sudden we were thrown in there wilh 60 teams. 
"Mentallv, it was a lot tougher when you're the underdog and know no one's expecting you to do well," she continued. 
The Irish will look to turn things around in the Big East Invitational Friday. 
s 

CLUB SPORTS 
Men's water polo falls in championship round 
Special to The Observer 
Rolfs Aquatics Center was the venue for the Midwest Confenrnce championships this weekend, although at times it was all too remi­niscent of the Nebraska football game. With the student body on fall break, the bleachers were packed with the red of Miami of Ohio, as the nationally No. 2 ranked Hedhawks reclaimed the championship from the Irish in the finals of the thrnn day competition. 
John Penilla's three goals spurred the Irish to an opening round win over Ohio University, 14 -7, while Keith Hauenbuehler's similar hat trick led the scoring in an 18 -2 romp over Ball State in the quarterfi­nals. In the semifinals, the Irish de!'eated longstanding rival. Dayton, 12-6 behind the outstanding goal­keeping of Brendan Doherty. 
Doherty also kept the Irish close through the lirst three quartP.rs ot' the finaL'i. In the fourth quarter, the Miami deep bench paid dividends and the club scored often to run the final tally to 10 -5. Irish All American Matt McNicholas had an outstanding game as he scored twice, and played commendable defense against Miami's star, Jeremy Brown. Brown , a graduate student, is a for­mer four year varsity letterman and All American at UCLA. Although Brown scored six goals for the Redhawks. McNicholas and Doherty thwarted many scoring opportunities with outstanding defense. 
Seven senior standouts concluded their careers at Notre Dame, includ­ing Matt McNicholas, Pete Asmuth, Nick Malone, Greg Krouse, Eric Saul, Brian Hench, and Brian Sullivan. Their accomplishments included a No.7 national ranking a year ago, and a 20 match conference win streak this yew:. 
Men's Rowing 
Under the lead of stroke scat Sharbil Nammour and Coxswain Karen llngan, the Notrn Dame men's rowing club disting'uished il,;clf' at the prestigious llead of the Charles Regatta in Boston this woekend. The Irish lop eight man boat placed I9th in a lield of' 68 strong entries. The crew's time of' 16:32 bNtered the times of nationally recognized club teams from Harvard, Williams. Boston U,, Oregon Stale, Northwestern and North Carolina. 
The Irish will rpturn to action this week a<; they host the Ilead of the Elk on Oct 29, in Elkhart. This regatta has grown into one of the most popu­lar and well-attended events in the Midwest and provides spectators with a full day of' competition. 
Equestrian 
The SMC/ND equestrians partic­ipated at two evenL,; over fall break. At Taylor University in Marian, Ind., Mary Barter placed first in novice fences to pace the Irish. Jen Anthony took fourth in the intermediate flat class and lifth in intermediate fences. Laura Anderson's fifth place in the novice llat class completed the scor­ing for the club. 
The club then traveled to the IUPUV Butler University lnvltationa!, where Mary Barter again captured a first in the novice flat class and third in novice fences. Jen Anthony also placed first in the intermediate llat class, while Lauren Anderson took fourth in the novice llat class. The equestrians will next compete at Butler University this weekend. 

Columbia University's Biosphere 2: Earth Semester in Oracle Arizona Fall 2001 and Spring 2002 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING 
Thursday, October 26 
5:00 pm 126 DeBartolo 


sponsored by the Center for Environmental Science & Technology 
,... 
.= c:.:l~NTl~I< ..-< Jf( 

E,i)jfonmental
Science & Technology 
.tt UKivtnlty ofNotre, l>AJ<U­
(lj31) 287-8474 


Tuesday, October 24, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Navy 
continued from page 24 
home about going back to offensP:," Davie said.
,,, t· Nebras 
Not to worry. The Irish proved against the Midshipmen that their crowded back­
2 Oklaho'm 
field does not need an added member. 3~ Virginia Starter Julius Jones gained l05 yards on 18 carries. 13ut his last carry came4 ·Miami ( early in the third quarter as the reserve tailbacks carried the ball on 17 of the last 
5 .. ~lrnl 
20 plays. Terrance Howard, who weeks6 ·Flori earlier had been dismissed from practice7 Cle'"'., after having thoughts of leaving the pro­
gram, ran 13 times for 68 yards, while Tony Fisher gained 36 yards. .
8. Ore 
ln all, the Irish rushed for 218 yards and 9 ·Wa gained a season-high 447 yards. Freshman Matt LoVecchio (who com­
tu ··Kin 
pleted 13 of 20 passes for 183 yards and two touchdowns) improved to 2-0 as a
1l' Ohio 
starter and deflected praise to everyone1'2: Ge but himself. 
"A lot of the older guys, especially the.,:ta.. ,l linemen and all the coaches really helped," LoVecchio said. "Just the confi­
.:ii€v)~l::: dence they had in our offense and this15"" .··· football team." 
$._·.,·,:'""; 

Sil()(JI.,)) l\TJ! l{l(;I{ 11111 CtlJ'l1 l~Ctll (;())IINf, (tlJ'l1? 
<D YESI c;€)Nrn 
The armed farces Homosexuals should be sh .uld not be required to allowed to serve. openly or retain homosexual service not. in the armed services. 
members. 
If he's willing to die for his country should we tell him who 
he can date? What do you think? Don't keep It to yourself. 
Learn. React. SpeakOut. We have over 300 issues to 
research and the tools to make your opinion heard. 
Plus, when you log on to http://university.speakout.com, you could win $2500 just for registering. 
Speak your mind and get paid for it. Your opinion isn't something that should be kept hidden. 
No pu1chase necessary. Void where prohtbfle-d. Sweepstakes open lrom October 1. 2000 through December 31, 2000 Open to adults. 18+ years old, excepl Florida residents. Subject lo oNfClal mies, avallable a.I http:ltwww speal<out com'actMsm'untvefS~Y 
Sponsor SpeakOut com, Inc., 12251 Street NW, W8:Shinglon. OC 20005 C,2000 SpeakOutcom, Inc. Al! rights. reserved. 






11
Vierna,nese srudent­
,A._ I( VailCO ) 
fvoted"\ (. Aspen CO . ) 

!71ssociat'ion ~ 
( Winter Park C<:)
';,.n:::~~•;~:.
• r, South Padre TX · . 

ef'Not:re 'Da-me 
IDavtona Beach· F17 ...__..

(VSA) 
( Destin FL )~:~ ~ First" General Mee-tinglll ( Hilton Head SC ll VJ 
~ a ~ FebH-Aur 1.1 b1 When: 8:30pm., Sunday., Oc-tober 29, 2000 -~ • 1~-Steamboat CO Where: LaFor-tune Coali-tion Room (2nd floor) • Breckenridge CO Who: All in"teres-ted par'ties! 
www.sunchase.com 

(Questions? Contact ND.vsand.1@nd_edu) 
l •800•SUWCBASE, 

---------. -----------~ 
Tuesday, October 24, 2000 

page Z2 The Observer . SPORTS 
======================================================================================================== 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Belles lose leading scorer to season-ending injury 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Spom W ritcr 

Faltering with two losses over 
fall break, the Belles soccer 
learn suffered a loss far greater 
than notches in the loss column: 
tlrn lnss of its leading scorer. 

ll3allwr MULh. who led the 
team in scoring this sei}son and 
is the only sophomore caplain. 
suffered a season-ending injury 
in the loss to Calvin. 

Muth was kicked in the head 
in the game against Adrian but 
compounded the injury in a col­
lisio11 with a Knight. 

"The girl behind me wanted the ball but she hit me instead," Muth said. "I foll forward and hit my htiad on the track (which lined the field.I My head snapped backwards and her foot hit it. I don't remember much after that." 
After finishing 1-2 over fall break with a victory over Adrian and losses to Calvin and Alma. Saint Mary's faecs top­ranl;ed Albion today and then ends the season al home Satnday against Hope. 
While the Belles ended the week with a 9-0 loss to Calvin, the fourth-ranked team in the MIAA, they were happy with their play in the second half. 
"The Calvin game was unfor­tunate because we lost our lead­ing scorer for the rest of the sea:;on," head coach Milligan said. "We played fiat and their speed truly dominated the con­test" 
The Belles were outshot 42-9 by the Knights. Leading scorer Tricia Dyk, Carin Erbland. and Dana llaan each scored two goals against the Belles. 
Kipphahn made 11 saves and freshman goalie Laura Metzger made six in the losing effort. 
L,~ah Vander Ploeg stopped fou.· Belles shots and Knights' reli,?ver Nina Hecker made one. 
Overall, the team was satis­fied with how the week turned out 
"There were no suprises and we knew exactly what each team would do," head coach Jason Milligan said of the games over breirk. "Our problem right now is that we are very low on numbers. We compete well for a while but when other teams are rur.ning mass numbers against us, it takes its tool. No matter 
how fit a team is. it is hard to 
compete against this fact. I am 
proud that the girls have shown 
great heart and have worked 
hard every game for the entire 
game." 

The Holies fell to Alma 1-2 on 
Oct. 14, after the Scots scored a 
late goal to break the tie. 
"Our midfield and defense wl'fe very steady," Milligan said. "Both of Lhe goals Alma scored were great goals. Tia !Kapphahn] had the best game I have ever seen her play in goal." 
Belles co-captain !leather Muth matched Scots freshman Megan Karchon's early goal midway through the first half only to sec Alma sophomorc Jessica Hoberts steal the game with four minutes remaining. 
"The game against Alma made us mad," Helles freshman Wendy Irvin said. 
That determination drove the Belles to a 4-2 victory over the Adrian Bulldogs Oct. 18. 
"We were determined to win at least one more game this sea­son," Irvin said. "We had beaten Adrian before so we knew that this was the game to do it." 
The Saint Mary's freshman won the day against Adrian, beating Bulldogs' goalie Sarah Moulik four times, while in the last two meetings between the teams Moulik has held the Belles to just one goal. both scored by veteran !leather Muth. 
"[Moulik! was playing well; her defense was getting in the way," Irvin said. 
Irvin scored first, and was fol­lowed in the first half by a goal from Stephanie Artnak, the leading freshman scorer. 
"Stephanie's goal went right over the goalie's head," Irvin said. "There was no way she could have stopped that one." 
The Bulldogs matched the Belles with two goals in the first half, and the tie was not broken until ten minutes remaining in the second. Irvin scored again to break the tie and freshman Patricia Wheat, normally a defender, cemented the victory for the Irish with a fourth goal, ­her first on the season. 
"!Milligan! moved me up front to change things up a bit," Wheat said. "It's always a good thing to be able to help the team out and put the finishing touch-es on something that they helped to build." 

Saint Mary's outshot Adrian 18-14, while Belles goalie Tia Kapphahn made nine saves to take the win. Muth and Artnak garnered assists against the Bulldogs. 
"Adrian was an awesome team effort," Milligan said. "We moved the ball quickly and effectively. Adrian Kirby hit some excellent shots and Katie Green has been solid all year in the midfield and was truly a force as a marking back in this game." 
Still, they are looking forward to the match against Albion. 
"It will be good to have some players returning instead of suf­fering season-ending injuries," sophomore Lynn Taylor said. 
"We just need another experi­enced defender. That way we can move our offenders back to offense." 
Indeed, according to Milligan, Taylor has been stellar on defense, filling in for injured sweepers Jessica Klink and Alissa Brasseur. 
The Belles regain junior co­captain Klink after a two week stint on the lengthy list of the Belles wounded. 
Klink was a mainstay at sweeper before she injured her left quad. 
"Its kind of ironic because Albion was my last game," Klink said. ''I'm a little hesitant because I don't want anything to happen again, but I'll be ready. I'm really excited to be back with the team." 
The Belles will also be without their other sweeper, Brasseur a sophomore transfer, and fresh­man Emily Erchick, who are both out for the remainder of the season. 
"We have improved in every area of play," Milligan said. "We still need to keep our team shape a bit better and let the ball do much more running than we do. With the present situation, low numbers, it is essential that we are able to possess the ball. This demands that off the ball movement is quicker and decisions are immediate. Defensively, we need to do a better job of track­ing the other teams' movement after they make a pass. Better decisions on distribution will also help a great deal." 

U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT 
PRESENTS 
CAREER and INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITIES 
Tuesday, October 24th 
12:00 Noon to 1 :30 p.m. Room 119 O'Shaughnessy 
INFORMAL DISCUSSIONS 
4:00 to 6:00 p.m. 
Room 119 O'Shaughnessy Schedule your meeting by e-maiJing GOINTERN.I@nd.edu 
. . . . TIPS .... 
Preparing for the Written Foreign Se1Vice Exam 
6:00 to 7:00 p.m. Room 119 O'Shaughnessy 
Co-sponsored by the Department of Government and the Career Center 
We're Looking Fora Few ~ Bright Stars•{l 
FactSet is the leading provider of online financial, market, and economic information. Our product is used by over 10,000 investment professionals worldwide to research companies, industries, and economies. 
Information Session 
Tuesday, February 13, 2001 
Interviews 





Wednesday, February 14, 2001 
Consultants -The ideal candidate is fascinated with computers and software and has an interest in learning about financial markets. Exceptional communication and interpersonal skills are also vital as consultants are in constant contact with clients worldwide . 



FactSet is an equal opportunity employer www.factset.com 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
------~---------------------------------------------~--------------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
The Observer . TODAY 

TOM KEELEY
FOURTH AND INCHES 
( FALL ~!:AK: THE AETVRN WBJ., TIME FOA SOME SLEEP. WAKE ME VP FOR THE FOOTBALL '1-AME 
TIME TO GET SACK TO 

tVT THAT'S NOT FOR ANOTHER 
WORi:'.~--:;;;;:;::,.,,,," FIVE WHOLE DAYSI 
BILL AMEND
Fox TROT 
'I) l999 .Bili Aina116fOist lly UfllVSl5al Pr@~ Syrldh:.ate
WELtoME To THE E. F. OUR FEATuR'EO PRESENTATION, COULD You AT AHO HAVE 'foV '(ouN(:, PLANETARIUM, "THE RoMANilC. UNIVEi!SE," LEAST UNDO BOLT AT THE LAOIES ANO GENTl.EMEN, W•U. 8E&1N 1N A FEW M1NIITES. n!IS HANl>CIJFf FIRST SIGl'I 
UNTIL T4EN? OF [)USK? I___...,;F._:A_.-i CHANCE. 
I 


page 23 
TYLER

THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 Soapmaking 65 Act on, as 1 Door frame 
need advice upright 26 Snake with a 66 Gung-ho quality nasty bite 68 Constellation
5 Muslim's journey 
29 Reindeer herder with a belt
9 Mosque officials 
32 Promgoers: 69 Linen color 
14 Kind of 
Abbr. 70 "Beetle Bailey" 
arguments 

34 Emotes boob 
~5 ''Typee" sequel 
40 Muscle quality 71 Part of SST 16 KwaZulu-­41 Prefix with 72 Carpentry class province, South 
center 73 Thumbs-up
Africa 

42 1997 Peter 17 Airport/hotel Fonda title role DOWN connection 
43 Falls for a scam 1 Scribble 18 Take to 48 Kipling novel 2 Riyadh resident (reprimand) 49 Shirt brand 3 Shin-covering 19 Sales clerk's 50 Start of the 16th skirt minimum century 4 Football charge 
20 Faces up to 51 Ex of Frank and 5 Chair facing expected Artie Regis Philbin, hardship 54 Singer Zadora with "the" 
23 Tappan_ 56 Moon vehicle 6 Latin 101 verb Bridge 58 Takes in recent 7Kid 24 Le Soleil events 8 Ace topper (Louis XIV) 64 Sicily's "kicker" 9Ask 10 Stake-driving hammer
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
11 Bikini, for one· 
--,.-.--.-~ 12 Brit's buddy R 13 Candidate list
swimmers 22 Pear variety 26 "Hamlet" has 
five

--+---~ 27 Come in third 
ART 28 Elizabeth of "La --+-+,,..+-~ Bamba"
SM I 
=+.,,+.-,+,,,.,1 30 "That was close!"
EAT 
31 RC competitor 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

2  3  4  
14  
17  

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Emo­DAY: Kevin Kline, Bill Wyman, tional stress will cause irritability Doug Kellogg, Denise Levertov, F. and lowered vitality. You should Murray Abraham, Kweisi Mfume consider signing up for courses or 
Happy Birthday: Stop vacillating joining clubs that will help you and start producing. You can't let improve your outlook as well as your personal life interfere with your your appearance. 00 professional duties. It's time to think LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct, 22): You big or go home. Put your efforts into should be doing some traveling. getting ahead and achieving your Your knowledge will dazzle those goals. This is not the year to hold you come into contact with. You may back. Let others know your thoughts want to keep things to yourself in and don't be afraid to let go of peo­order to avoid an unsavory situation. ple and things that are no longer 000 beneficial to you. Your numbers: 3, SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You 17, 24, 28, 41, 45 should be thinking about making 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your some changes to your living quar­unique ideas will go over well with ters. Get the whole family to help. co-workers. You can take a position You can pick up some valuable 
of leadership and talk to your boss knowledge if you listen to those with about improving work efficiency. experience.0000 00000 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 21): Make love, not war. This can be 
Look into doing things that involve an extremely passionate time if you children. Give your time, not your work on your relationship in a posi­cash. Be careful when dealing with tive manner. Expect to see some officials. This will not be the day to changes concerning personal matters. speed. 000 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): partner is likely to overreact to situa­Go after your goals. Concentrate on tions. Legal problems may cause getting as mudi done at work as pos­stress; however, they should work sible. You may be up for a promo­
Puzzle by BIii Zais · out in the long run. Make changes in tion. Passionate encounters look your home that will make everyone promising. 00000
37 Western film 61 Decorated cop, 
more comfortable. 00 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
actor Jack say 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Put Look into investment opportunities. 38 Nevada Sen. 62 Half a fortnight your efforts into your career direc­Your good ideas should be exploited. Harry tion. You will have a sharp tongue if You may want to enter into a busi­
63 "_ Smile" (Hall 
39 Himalayan things don't go your way at home. ness-oriented partnership. Don't get 
& Oates hit) 
legend Arguments with your lover could stuck doing all the work. 000 result in isolation. 000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):
67 Moviedom's44 Not really sing 
. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Profes­Someone at home will not be easy to 
Myrna

45 Leave out sional changes look favorable. Be deal with. Don't let yourself be bait­46 Hid from confident when you present your ed into an argument. You can make a ideas to superiors. You will have to difference to children if you take the 
pursuers Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
be careful when dealing with your time to be involved in their activities.
47 First place? are available by touch-tone phone: 
lover. You may be taken the wrong 000 
51 "So long" 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
way.000521n_ Annual subscriptions are available for the fertilization best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 53 Once more years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name --------------------------­
Address ______,_______________ City _______ State ___Zip_____ 



Losing a leader 
The Belles soccer team lost their team captain and leading goal scorer to a season-ending injury over fall break.

PORTS 
page 22 
O
THE 

page 24 BSERVER Tuesday, October 24, 2000 
l=ooTBALL 
Sinking the Midshipmen 
Led by Drivers defensive dominance, Notre Dame tops Navy, 45-14 
ByTlM CASEY A•sistsnr Sports Fdiror 
} lis tnam had lost by :-11 poinLs;, failed to s,:orc until the fourth quarter and fell to O­b on the season. 
But Navy safety Chris Lnpor11 sounded more sLUbborn than sad follov\i11g the Irish 's 45-15 victory against the winlnss IVlidshipmcn. 
"One thing I hate is when people give 01.h!'r teams too much credit." said Lepore, \\ho recorded six tackles and an intercep­ti, lll. "I would go out there and play !Notre Dame] every single game of the year b,icause I think we can bm1t them." 
Unfortunately for Lepore, the Oct. 14 game was the only meeting of the year b1}tween the two teams. Despite playing· what coach Bob Davie called a "pretty good" game, the lrish still managed to d,Jminate the \1idshipmen in virtually every phase of the game. 
The Navy wishbone attack gained a ff.ere 58 yards on the ground. And for the first three quarters. the Midshipmen tallied only 90 total yards against an improved dnfense. which yielded 27.6 points and 3g3_7 yards per game last season. 
"Anytime you can play man to man cov­erage you can have a different style," Davie said. "And it doesn't matter if you're playing against the wishbone or you're playing against Purdue." 
t\mong the players responsible for the Irish 's more aggressive defense is free safety Tony Driver. 
i\gainst the Midshipmen. Driver returned two fumble recoveries for touch­downs in the first quarter as Notre Dame lrd 21-0 after tho first quarter and never looked back. 
"I would have been upset at myself if I didn't t.ake them !the fumbles] back to the house," Driver said. 
One year ago, Driver, then a running back. was angry for a different reason. 
During October brnak, the 6-foot-2. 220­poundcr was suspended for the remainder of the season al'ter multiple violations of parirtals. 
I le attemµted to attend the home gai11e against Navy, the first since his separation from the team. but soon realized the con­sequences. 
"I stayed there until halftime and then went home and watched it on TV," Driver said. "People were asking me like 10,000 questions." 
A few weeks later, Davie had an inquiry for his suspended player. Following a Friday night pep rally at the Joyce Center, while getting ready to board the team bus to a hotel in Plvmouth, Davie noticed two studenL<; dressed as cartoon characters. 
Pebbles and Barn Barn. 
Driver was one of them. 
"Talk about breaking your heart," Davie said.-"I like it a lot better with that No. 25 on and that helmet on." 
With Driver's return in the spring, Davie did not have to worry about what Driver would be wearing the· night before games. And the fourth-year head coach knew Driver's on-field impact would improve a much-maligned defense. 
The only negative for Davie after Driver's performance against Navy? "He's going to hound me on the flight 
see NAVY/page 21 


V,/oMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish settle for tie against UConn, end 16-game winning streak 
By KEVIN BERCHOU Sports Writer 
For the first time all season victory eluded the No. 1 ranked Notre Dame women's soc­cer team. 
After winning three games over fall break to extend their record to 16-0-0. the best start in school history, the Irish traveled to Storrs, Conn. for a much anticipated show­down with the lluskies of Connecticut. In a battle of division champions, Connecticut out­played Notre Dame. While the Irish were not at their best, junior goalkeeper Liz Wagner was. Her efforts allowed the Irish to escape Storrs with a 0-0 tie and remain unbeaten though no longer invincible. 
Playing without two of their top players the Irish finally saw their winning streak snapped .._ at 16. Freshman Amy Warner missed her sr.venth consecutive game, while senior co-

captain Kelly Lindsey missr,d her fourth, a fact that did not escape the opportunistic I luskies. UConn came at Notre Dame early and outshouting the Irish 16-7, the first time an opponent has done so all season. 
With her teammates sufforing a rare off day, Wagner came through with onn or the best performances of lrnr career. Untested for much of the season, Wagrwr had a busy day, making eight sav(;s. 
"I think you saw tonight why Liz Wagner has to be considered f'or Big East goalkeeper of the year," head coach Handy Waldrum said. "In a lot of' our games d'iis season, she has hardly touched the ball. but every time she has been tested in a big game she has answered the bell for us." 
"I just try to give us a chance to win," Wagner saitl. "You know than even when you're not busy, you might need to make that 
sec IRISH/page 19 

• Women's Swimming 
at Michigan vs. Michigan State 
. 

~· vs. MiamiSPORTS \lf Tuesday, 3 p.m. Thursday and Friday, ~ Friday, 5 p.m.
7:05 p.m.ATA vs. Airforcc 
vs. Albion • Men's Swimming 
sis 
Saturday, 1:30 p.111.

Tuesday, 4 p.m. vs. Kalamazoo .~ ~ 
friday, 6 p.rn.
GLANCE 



