--------~ ~ ­

Suffering from 9021 Owithdrawl? 
Making new traditions 
Scene reviews this fall's new and 
Columnist Kevin Huie encourages students to 

Wednesday
returning shows including the new 
welcome change and diversity on campus . 
Aaron Spelling drama Titans.· 
Viewpoint . page 12 
SEPTEMBER 20, 
Scene . page 14-15 
2000 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Marys 
VOL XXXIV NO. 20 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Stop, drop and roll 

Members ofthe Notre Dame and Saint Marys communities reflect on fire safety: 



ND classes find a shortage of TAs 
The piercing sound of a fire alarm reverberatrd throughout junior Ryan Flanagan·s room in O"NeiU Hall early this year. /\s Flanagan evac­uated the building for the first fire drill of the year, studimts living on tlrn third and fourth floors remained undisturbed until hall staff dirrcted them out of the building. I lad there been an actu­al firn, these students might not have escaped. "Thev did some work to install alarms· in each room. but on the fourth fioor they didn't go off at all and on the third floor only some went off." said Fathei John llerman, rector of O'Neill !fall. "The fire department is working on getting those up and running. I think we're moving in the right direction." Hr-fore alarms were placed in each room, the four Golf Quad dorms had an alert system that announced to students· in a calm, quiet voice, "There is an emer­gency in the building. Please find the nearest exit," from alarm speakers in the hallways. If their door was closed or they had the TV or stereo playing loudly, stu­dPnts could not h!mr the alarm. "It still worked. but the llA's had to pound on your doors," said Welsh Family Ilall junior Hachd Willcox. "'There were always instances where people didn't get out." Flanagan agreed. "Pnople who haw trouble waking up for class would not have heard thorn. With the new ones in the rooms, it's a lot louder so it shouldn't be a problem." "We had an opportunity to upgrade the system. so we did," 
By ERTN LaRlJFFA 
Associ,ne News Editor 
\'\nether there are 50 or 250 stu­dents in a lecture dass, large cours­es can seem impersonal. 
Professors in these classes may givP interesting and insightful lec­tures, but it is difficult ~ if not impossible -fur one person to answer every question and grade every paper of all the students crammed into a lecture hall. 
That's v\ hem [(•aching assistants -hettPr known as Ti-\s -come in. 
"From a student's perspective, ITA-;] can add a personal dimension to a coursr that is a large one," said Dian Murray, associate dean of the CollegP or Arl"i and I.,ilters. 
A graduate studont can become a 
How safe are the University and College? 
University Fire Chief John Antonucd said. "The University 

story by
has always been a very proactive system. We try to move forward 
MEGDADAY
in order to protect students." The University had been plan­ning to upgrade the fire protect1on 
• 

and alert system for about two 
photos by
years, but last winter, the project became a priority after three stu­
PETE RICHARDSON 
dents died in a residence hall fire at Seton Hall University in New Jersey. 
"Residence hall fires have been 
on the increase," said Antonucci. "Seton Hall brought to life prob­lems that exist throughout the country." 
Sister Kathleen Beatty, Lyons Hall rector, agreed. "They really want this place to be top-notch as far as fire protection. Seton Hall was a wake-up call for everybody. A huge tragedy makes people look at their own systems." 
This summer, not onlv were the ineffective voice syste.ms in the Golf Quad dorms supplemented 'with blaring alarms in each room above the door, but new fire pro­tection systems were installed in seven residence halls. Pangborn, Fisher, Lyons, Howard, and Breen-Philips received new alarms and new sprinkler sys­tems; Walsh had a new alarm sys­tem installed and Knott and Siegfried got sprinklers in each room. According to Antonucci, by the fall of 2001, everv dorm on campus will have a sprinkler in each room. 
Antonucci added that the heat­sensitive sprinklers will deposit between 20 and 30 gallons of water per minute into the room 
see FIRE/page I 0 
TA tor a course related to his or her fiekl of study. Among other things, T/\s commonly grade papers, answor questions and lead small discussion groups, particularly in rlasses too large for professors to handle the workload on their own. 
Despite the importance graduate TAs ·arP to undergraduate educa­tion. academic departments some­times have a difticult time finding enough oftl1em. 
The government department, for example, has been challenged by a small pool of potential T A'i. 
In recrmt years, as the number of undergraduate government majors has increased, lhe number of grad­uate TAs shrank, according to 'vlicha('! Coppedge. As the depart­ment's director if' graduate studies, Coppedge is responsible for assign­ing TAs to undergraduate govern­ment courses. 
The number of students enrolled in a class is the biggest factor the government department uses to determine whether a class has a TA and how many TAs each class has, according to Coppedge. When determining TA assignments, he said he tries to equalize the student to teacher ratio among the dilforent courses. 
However, that ratio can vary from year to year depending on the mun­bnr of TAs available, Coppedge said. 
The reason lor the recent short­age in government T/\s has to do with the fact that the number of 
see TAlpage 8 

Rape victim speaks out to community 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Saint Mary's News Editor 

Editor's Note: Kelly and Justin are pseudonymns. 
For Kelly, facing reality was the hardest part to recov­ery. 
"This is the first time I've sat down and shared my story," Kelly said. "It took me nine months to go in front of people and say, ·1 was raped."' 
Kelly, a junior at Saint Mary's, shared her story of rape and recovery in a Regina Hall event Tuesday evening. 
Kelly came to Saint Mary's in 1998, a wide-eyed. naive freshman. She went to the orientation sessions about 
see RAPE/page 4 


Notre Dame installed new sprinklers and fire alarms this summer to ensure students' safety on cam­pus. Because of recent fires at college campuses around the country, University fire officials are working hard to prevent tragedy from occurring at Notre Dame. 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, September 20, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 
0 Ider and wiser 
Tlw start' l'rom the woman down tlrn aisle said nvnrything. and my flrst instinct was to retreat lik1· a sroldNI puppy. But this was no time to back clown. 
So lm;t w<wkencl. as I stood 
-a <·asp of' soda in each hand -at onP encl of' the soft drink aisle in a local gro­cery slorP and a middle-aged whit<\ woman stood at the other. I decidPd to act. While slw rnarhnd for pop on an upper slrnlf'. slrn shot mn damaging. suspicious looks. 

which I cast off. all the while 
perusing 2-liter bottle labels Jason McFarley 
and walking her way. 
Tlw cases still in hand. I 
was within 10 feet ol' her Assistant 
wlrnn she conduclrd that I News Editor 
had pPrhaps overstrppecl my 
boundari(:S. She let thE1 thrNl 
2-liters shr was still trying to obtain r.rash to the 
floor. grabbed her purse from the cart parked 
not even a foot from her and nestled it in her 
arm likP a skill<id rnceivcr. 
I walked past her, only half-surprised by her jarring reaction to me but nevertheless a little disappointPd and somewhat stung. 
I renwmbered feeling thn same kind of pain years before. I remembered being 13 years old and waking up in the dawning hours of a South Bend summer morning. the tennis courts at the neighborhood elementary school awaiting me. I remembered arriving. intfmt on perfecting my serve on the cracked. old cement surfaces and practicing my backhand against the chipped grnen-paintcd backboard that hung on one side of' the chainlink fence that surrounded the three courl'i. It was calm. and the rising sun and warm air promised a bright. inviting day. 
· But then I remembered my serenity being shat­tered. 
I remrmbered the flashing lights and blaring sirnns of' two police cruisers approaching my ten­nis haven. I heard the unnerving noise of doors slamming as ollirers exited the vehicles. 
Then I remembered the boom of their harsh voices over bullhorns. instructing me to put down my racquet and to lie face down on the dirty cPment. I wondered if they could smell the fear emanating from the 13-year-old boy who had, up to this point, always assumed that this sort of thing only happf1ns to other people -the "bad guys." But I felt like a bad guy -lying on the ground and bning handcuffed. having the oflicers put their feet on my young back while thPy inter­rogated me and pointed their guns at my head. 
And then as suddenly as they had accosted me. I remrmberPd the policemen lifting me off the ground. freeing my hands and informing me that there had been a misunderstanding. Get home and be sure not to tell your parents, I recalled them telling me; and to this day. I haven't. 
Why? 
I suppose it's the inescapable shame and the srizing thoughts that what happened to me was and is my fault. Or maybe it's the awful feeling that comes with having my dignity and any sense or srlr-worth trampled upon, and the tears that always follow close behind. 
That was what I felt then on the tennis courts and now in the soda aisle of' the grocery store. But standing thr,re, with the heavy cases or pop still in hand. I resolved that this time -as an 18­year-old man -would be different. 
Yes. the hurt was very much the same. But I would come to terms with it. And if I cried, it wouldn't be for myself, but rather for all that's wrong with the world. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene 
Laura Rompf Laura Kelly 
Kelly Hager Graphics 

Liz Zanoni Jose Cuellar Sports Production Kathleen O'Rrien Kerry Smith 

Viewpoint Lab Tech 

Lane Herrington Amanda Greco 
Th,· Ohmwr (l/SP~ ~l)•J 2-4000) 1s published Monda)' 1hro11~h Frida)' 1.·x1..·t•p1 durin~ rx.1111 ,111d \',u.:,uion pt"riods. The Ohsr:rvcr is ,I member of rhc Assod.ited Press. AJI repmducrion righrs ,are res<.•rvcd. 


THIS WEEK IN MICHIANA 
Wednesday  Thursday  
. Performance: "Smoke  . Event: "The Ultimate  
on the Mountain," 8 p.m.,  Corn Maze," 5 to 10 p.m..  
Hound Barn Theatre,  Barbott Farms and  
1600 VV. Market St.,  Greenhouse.  
Nappanee.  . Performance: "Plain  
and Fancy," 2 p.m.,  
Hound Barn Theatre,  
Nappanee.  

Friday 
. 
Lecture: "Eating Disorders: When Food Takes Control." 11:30 to 1 p.m., Madison Centrr l'or Children. 

. 
Lessons: Free tango lessons, 8:15 p.m., 12(> 

W. 
Marion. South Bend. 



Saturday 
. 
Event: 11th Annual 22WSBT South Bend Women's Show, 10 a,m, to(> p.m .. Century Center. 

. 
Event: Hiver Park Fest 2000. 10 a.m. to 4 p.m , 30th Street. Mishawaka. 



Compiled from U-Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
University of Minnesota disputes legal issue 
MINNEAPOLIS, Mn. 

For most students, living in a res­dence hall represents freedom from­life with their parents. 
But in an effort to control drug and alcohol levels on campus, the University of Minnesota is exploring a parental-notification plan for students betwern the ages of 18 and 21 "vho violate alcohol or illegal drug policies. 
Until a few years ago, universities needed a student's signaturn to release any information to parents unless the student's life was clearly threatened. 
But a 1998 amendment to the fed­era I Family Education Hight to Privacy Act gave educational institu­lions the option to contact parents for violations. To adopt this policy, the University Board of Regents would need to approve it. 

Rut proceedings are on hold while University lawyers investigate the legality of the policy. 
Associatr Vice Provost for Student Development Jane Canney said the primary supporters of the new policy 
UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA 
Penn hit by gene therapy lawsuit 
PHILADELPHIA. Pa. 
The family of Jesse Gelsinger filed a wrongful death suit against the University of Pennsylvania and others involved with Penn's Institute for Human Gene Therapy Monday, a year and a day after the teenager died while participating in a Penn gene therapy researr,h program. The complaint, filed in Philadelphia Common Pleas Court, claims Gelsinger's death was a direct result of negligence by Penn, !HGT Director James Wilson and the two other scientists who ran the experiment in which Gelsinger was enrolled. In addition, the suit alleges that Wilson and then-Health System CEO William Kelley owned several gene therapy patents and stood to gain financially from a successful outcome to the trial. and thus their judgement was compromised. The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, the Children's National Medical Center in Washington, D.C., IHGT investor Genovo, Inc.-founded by Wilson -and Arthur Caplan, the renowned director of Penn's Center for Bioethics, are also named in the suit. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South BElld FOl:8CSSt 
Aro.Weatrar !'am:ast for raytirre an:liticrs an:l high tmperature5 

H L Wednesday Q, 69 52 
Thursday  ~60 45  
Friday  ~64 51  
Saturday  ~ ' ''.. "  66  50  
Sunday  Q  60  45  


8,~,~q'6}q . ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Prass GraphicsNet 
are parents. 

Canney also added family commu­nication prior to attending the University is the key to reducing alco­hol and drug consumption. 
She added University of Minnnsota­Crookston administrators have sup­ported it on the grounds that parents are an important part of' addn~ssing issues in a student's life and should be considered in the effort to reduce consumption by minors. 
Others disagree. 

The University Alcohol, Tobacco and Other Drug Task Committen rec­ommended the University not adopt the policy last fall. In the past. both the Graduate and Professional Student Assembly and the Minnesota Stud(rnt Association have voiced opposition. 
UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND 

No rules govern computer porn 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. 
Viewing pornographic materials in non-classroom computer labs is not entirely banned on the university of Maryland. But before studenl'i run out and start down­loading as fast as they can. them are certain guidelines in place governing First Amendment rights. a campus official said. Because of the flne line between protecting these rights and violating the ever-evolving sexual harassment laws, the actual policy set by campus offi­cials is delibt1rately vague, according to an article written by Rodney Petersen, director of the campus organization Project NEThics. However. he point,; out that other types of material. such as child pornography, violatP state and federal laws, as well as r.ampus policy. Under the direc­tion of PetersPn, the project set out to "nnsure responsi­ble use of university computing resources through policy enforcement and user education designed to inform com­munity mrmbers about the legal and ethical implica­tions of computer use," according to NEThics mission statement. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather" forecast for noon, Wednesday, Sept. 20. 

FRONTS: 
........... ~ 

~ 2000 i\ccuWeather, Inc. COLO WARM STATIONARY 
Pr•HU,.: 

® © D D D D D D 
High Low Showers Rain T-storms Flurrl-¦ Snow lco Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Atlanta  86  71  Las Vegas  84  60  Portland  79  53  
Baltimore  86  74  Memphis  86  66  Sacramenlo  102  88  
Boston  82  68  Milwaukee  66  47  St. Louis  88  64  
Chicago  68  48  New York  70  49  Tampa  88  76  
Houston  88  67  Philadelphia  86  68  Washington DC 83  64  

Wi:dnesday, St:ptember 20, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Construction plans near coIDpletion at Saint Mary's 
. Activities center and Madeleva renovations are coming soon 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI Saint Mary's New, Editor 
The winds of change contin­ue to waft Saint Mary's cam­pus. A new Student Activities Center is in the works anrl the major renovations ct u e on Madeleva Hall are on the way through the planning stages. 
Hight now, both projects are still in paper. and no dates have been set for the transfer from papnr to reality. "They am progressing at the same stage." said Keith Dennis, vice president for Finance and Administration at the College. "We are working on the defin­ition of what kind of space we need and we actually have some floor plans and prelimi­nary cost estimates." 
As the College continues to gradually expand enrollment, the space becomes more and more important. Madeleva Hall houses almost all classes and faculty offices, except for science, modern languages, nursing and education cours­es. Noble Family Dining Hall, where the new Student Activities Center will stand, becomes more and more cramped. as does the office space in Le Mans Hall and Haggar Student Center. 
"Most of the changes being made are to make better use of existing space for the cur­rent enrollment and to better serve a population of about 1700 students," Dennis said. 
According to Dennis, the Student Activities Center will house the bookstore and Dining Hall, bank offices, ATM machines, and the Post Office. 
"The Student Center will be the mai~ gath~rin? place on campus, Dennis said. 
Linda Timm. vice president for Student Affairs, has the latest set of plans for the facil­ities. although nothing is in stone as yet. 
"The plans... are the most 

2000 Mendoza College of Business 
Career Foruin 
Thursday, September 21, 2000 6:00pm-8:30pm (MCoB) ***For Seniors, MBAs, and MS in Accountancy students only*** ***Dress is Business Formal*** 
Friday, September 22, 2000 10:00am-3:30pm (MCoB) ***For ALL students*** ***Dress is Business Casual*** 
• 
Meet and talk with representatives from over 100 companies 

• 
Take advantage of great networking opportunities, to assist with attaining full-time positions and summer internships 

• 
Attend information sessions to learn more about different career fields and options 


Sponsored by the Mendoza College of Business 
recent set I have," Timm said. "The architects have been working on another revision and we will likely have access to those in the coming weeks." 
According to the plans, the Dining Hall will contain three small meal/meeting places along with a 130+ seating area that could be partitioned from the the general dining area, much like the Wedge Room in the current Dining Hall. 
"There will be the opportu­nity to provide multiple con­cepts for dining," Dennis said. "The facility is going to be flexible so that these options can be changed as tastes and oppportunities change." 
According to Tiinm, the Student Center will also con­tain a cafc with Internet capa­
bilities, a cof­fee bar, travel agency, gen­eral store. copy shop, a l.irge lounge, off-campus student lounge, a TV lounge, a resource cen­ter for campus ministry, the president's dining room. student activi­ties offices, multicultural facility. 
In regards to Madeleva, that building will receive a facelift like the one performed on Regina Hall this summer. 
"The changes to Madeleva are expected· to be quite dra­matic," Dennis said. "They include renovating a majority of the classrooms by adding technology and adjusting class sizes." 
Ac1;ording to Dennis. the students.will not be the only ones to benefit from the changes to Madeleva. 
"The faculty and staff offices will be standardized and reno­vated to provide windows and other amenities," Dennis said. "Departments will be relocat­ed to make better use of sup­port staff." 
tee hopes to act a catalyst in raising awareness on campus. 

"Most ofthe changes being made are to make better use ofexisting space for the current enrollment and to better serve a population of about I 700 students." 
Keith Dennis vice president for Finance and Administration 
"The task force is to keep the issue alive and pro­mote a strong edu­cational compo­nent," said K a r e n Ristau, dean of fac­ulty. 
With the help from the faculty members on 

affairs offices, SURV. student government offices, catering offices, the Blue Mantle office, an Observer office. a 100 seat theater style room, and three meeting rooms. 
"There will be the opportu­nity to provide multiple con­cepts for dining," Dennis said. "The facility will be made flex­ible so that these options can be changed as tastes and opportunities change." 
When the Student Activities Center is completed and all of the occupants of Haggar Student Center will relocate to the new center, and Admission and College Relations will move to Haggar, after renova­tions are also made to that 

the task force committee, sweatshop specific material can be made available to interested faculty and stu­dents. 
"One thing the faculty will do is bring speakers to cam­pus and setup curriculum for professors that incorporates sweatshop issues," said Capillo. 
The next meeting for the task force will be in early October. By the end of meet­ing they hope to have a draft of their year goals and all they hope to accomplish. 
"It's coming along," said VenderWerven, "and the goal is to get this up and running as quick as possible." 
--~ ----­

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 20, 2000 
Rape 
continued from page l 
sexual assault, but she did not take them seriously. 
"I thought it was def1nitely not something that would happen to me." Kelly said. "This was a good Catholic school." 
She moved into a double, and quickly caught on to the party scenn with lier roommate. According to Kelly, they went ovrr to Notre Dame to party every Friday and Saturday night 
"We drank a lot," Kelly said. 
.Ian. zcJ. J99cJ started off ordi­narily rnough for tlw two ~rls Since it was a Friday, Kelly and her roommate headed over to Notre lhmP to Alumni Hall. 
"I didn't like beer, so this guy gavn mn two airplane bottles of whiskey," K1~lly said. "I drank it straight." 
Then the two girls walked around campus to sec what else was going on. 
They soon found another party, and Kelly drank some rnor<!. 1.atrl', when she asked hrr f'rimuls how much they saw her drink. Uwy said four beers. 
"I rnally don't know hmv much I drank that nig-ht," she said. "/\f'Wr that we went to Hnckers. /\t ]la.m. I WP w1mt back to Saint Mary's." 
Kelly was tirPd, but decidPd to go clown to thn writing center to clwck lrnr Pmail. 
/\ malr acquaintanc11 at Notre Damn, .Justin. lnstant­1\fossaged her whilt\ she was in tlw writing cPntPr. Justin aski~d lwr if slw wantml to get togPth­nr. Slw agrrNI. and md him in tlw LP Mans parking lot at about :t:10 a.Ill. 
"I was very tirnd. I wantnd to go to slPep," slw said. "lie stopped in Angela. We started kissing. I gunss I must havn said 'Don't takP my virginity like five timns. I was passed out, but I knew il was happening."' 
/\l'tnrwards, she went back to lwr dorm and foll asleep, awarn that sonwthing had happened, but in drnial. 
"I woke up the nPxt morning covtm)d in blood," KPlly said. "! told mysnlf' it didn't happen. I tried to play it off." 
Latnr that day, Kelly told her roommates what had happened. 
"Tlwn I rnalizPd that this was a 1wrson I had trusted. but I didn't PV<in know his last name." 
Slw hunted through the phone book with what little informa­tion sh1• had. and discovnrnd who lw was. and found out he wiLs a basPball player. 
"1111 was a bas1dmll player," she said. "!IP would have told nw. 
Ilnr l'riPnds \Vl'l"C' trying to giVI' lwr advice\ but she was already bloc.king tlw incident out. lier 
• roornmatt! IPl't to go to the Knnnan lfovw·, und slw ckcided lo IN anotlwr l'riPnd take her to Urn clinic. /\11 hour latPr, slw went look­ing l'or lwr fri<'nd and found that f'rinnd just )Paving to go party at /\lumni again. unwilling to take her to the clinic. Knlly dncidml not to go to the clinic aflPr all. "I W<'nt back and took a show­er and went to bnd," K(~lly said. "! didn't know you had 72 hours lo go to tlw clinic. and do a rapn kit. ll had alrPady snemnd liko so long ago," SIH• wokn up the 1H1xt morn­ing, and, after trying to do lrnr honH:work. realized that all she was doing was writing prayers to God to allow hPr to di11. 
Slw went hark to tlw writing c1·11t1·r and was Instant M,!ssaging anotlwr f'rienrl, and told him she wouldn't be back becauso sh1: was going to "hope­fully bt) in lwav1m" by thnn. 
She went back up to her room and went to sleep. 
She was in the middle of an email suicide note to her par­ents when her roommate came and told hr,r that her RA wanted to sec her. 
"l was put on suicide watch. and evory two hours the cowi­seling office called to make sure I was okay," Kelly said. "It was really embarrassing." 
"Then I decided to phone Justin," she said. "I called him up with questions about what happened that night. He said, 'Oh, we hooked up,' and laughed. Then he wanted to know what I was going to do." 
On Thursday of that week, Justin Instant Messaged her. He wanted to know how she was feeling. 
"Ile said, 'Should I put this incident behind me?"' K1_illy told her audience. Later in that con­versation, Kelly said she asked Justin some very serious ques­tions about that night. In the transcript she printed of their conversation, he allegedly admitted that he might have gone against her wishes. He admitted that he did rape her, she said. Ile even apologized. 
"lie finally admitted to it." K(1l!y said. "lie said he was sorry." 
That weekend, she went home and told lrnr parents what had happened. "I am glad I told my parents," Kelly said. "It was also one of the hardest things I have ew1r done. My dad was sobbing. lie went to Notre Dame. and two times sinCl\ then he has conrn to me and said, 'I live with the bur­dm1 that I failed you as a father.· I said it wasn't lhisl fault." 
Kdly tried counsnling, but nothing was coming of it, and she decided to move on with her life. 
"!Moving on! didn't happen," Kelly said. "I was very suicidal. My roommate was hostile, and I folt like I was the only one. I was having a really rough time, dur­ing February and the end of' March." 
During Sexual Awareness Week at the end of March. Kelly saw a list of statistics on rape. 
"I matched nvery one," Kelly said. "Freshman. naive, and doesn't report it. I said, 'I can't bcliPve I'm a statistic now."' 
However. it was what she read later that week in The Observer. a full-pagr. ad, which spurred hr,r to action. It read. "You may think ht~ took everything fro~ you, but he didn't take your voice." 
"Ile killed nw inside, but I still had my voice," Kelly said. 
After that. she made an appointment with Notre Dame Security, and they took her statPmPnt. 
The next fall. she was called into thii ResUfe office, and given a contact person and a copy of du Lac. She decided to press charges af'tnr talking with a stu­dent from Notrti Dame who was hersr,lf a survivor of' sexual assault. 
"I wasn't pn~pared for it," shP said ul' thn hearing. "I decided to go myself', and I regret that a lot." 
lier storv and Justin's did not agree. ac(:ording to Kelly. She said he was allowed to bring in character witnesses. while she was not. She said hfl told the committee that she was "ju~t after the jocks." 
"I was not," Kelly said. "I was a studont manager. I love Notre Dame." 
Evnn her roommate told the committor, that Kelly was proba­bly making it up, according to 
Kellv.  
A· week  later, she wrn t in  
again and  was  told of the  ver­ 

dict. 

'"We have a decision now,' they said. 'There was no viola­tion of' du Lac. lln will recnive 
counseling on relationship 
issues,"' Kelly rccountPd. "I told 
my contact person, Tm mad. I 
can't believe this is happening."' 
She met with the Campus 
Alliance for Hape Elimination 
(C.A.R.E.). who told her she had 
a right to a transcript of the 
hearing. She said ResLifr thPn 
told her that since she wasn't a 
Notre Dame student, she was 
lucky to come over and be a part 
of the hearing at all. 

In desperation. she went to 
Linda Timm, vice president or 
Student Affairs at Saint Mary's. 
"Dr. Timm helped me so much," Kelly said. "She was amazing. I also spoke with rather [Marki Poorman [vice .president of Student Affairs at Not.re Darnel. who said ho was sorry. I-le hoped that I would seek pastoral lwlp. But I still wasn't satisfied. l still felt a lot 
of guilt. I was drinking that night I got in his car." 
Her turning point came that fall break when she was in a serious car accident. 
"It was a legitimate way for me to die," Kelly said. "I realized then that I was there for a rea­son. I could get better. I needed someone to tell me I wasn't to blame. I was okay. I started to realize that I wasn't alon(), that God was there to proter,t me." 
While Kelly did write an anonymous letter to The Observer last yPar, she felt that wasn't enough. She spoke to Regina Ilall students in an effort to educate students to the fact that they were not alone. 
"One of the main things I want to go over is th() fact that 1 in 4 women in their lifetime will be raped," Kelly said. "It's not just a statistic." 
Kelly also advised her audi­ence to go to the clinic immedi­ately and to get help. Kelly her­self took a shower and did not go to the clinic, and thus had no physical evidence to prove her case to outside authoritiHs. 
"There arc so many places you can go to get help," Kelly said. "If anything ever happens. just go lo tlrn clinic. And if it happens to your friends you have to support them. to believP in them. Most. women who come forward are not lying. If they won't go, you go yoursdf to get help. It's a lot for you to deal with." 
Although sh(] did not get the result she wanted f'rom the Hesl.ifo lrnaring. slrn was grate­ful that they heard her case. 
"Technically they don't have to hear [Saint Mary's] cases, Kelly said. 

New BALANCE GOLD~ helps give your body sustained energy, plus 23 essential vitamins and minerals. It's a 40-30-30 ratio of carbs, protein and dietary fat fiendishly hidden in peanuts, caramel and a rich chocolate flavor. Now if only we could make it look like a little cartoon character. Want to learn more? Log on to Balance.com. 
--------.. __, ----------------------­
W~RL 
ATION 
Wednesday, September 20, 2000 COMPILED r;R0M THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
======================================================================================-:======== --=--=--_-­
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
NATO foils Kosovo bomb plot: 
!l;ATO-lod p1wcckeopers foiled a plot to d<~lo­natii a bomb in Kosovo, following a massivn smtrc'1 TuPsday in a S<,rb enclave outsidn tlw pro\'in<·c,'s capital llundrmls of' NATO-led peacl'keqwrs swept int,o the Kosovo Serb vil­lage of Grurnnica. just outside the capital, Pristina. bcfon• dawn. uncovnring plastic explo­sives. weapons anrl detonators. peacr.krn"pers said. 
Arrests made in Croatian death: 
The top U.N. ofncial in Rosnia -said Tuesday lhal a Croatian army general and three Bosnian Croats arrested in police svveeps in Bosnia and Croatia last week are suspected in tho assassination o[ anti-corruption politician Jozo Lr,utar. a Bosnian Croat dPputy interior minist11r. U.N. athoritins name Ivan Andabak, a Croatian army general. as the main suspect. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Morning-after pill on agenda: Anti­abortion lawmakers pushed through a propos­al Tuesday aimed at prohibiting the use of fed­eral funds to distribute the so-called morning­after pill al llrn nation's public schools. The drug can be used after unprotected sex to stop a pregnancy. and I louse supporters of the pro­posal said 180 schools across the country dis­tribulr. it at school-based clinics. A similar pro­posal had bmm included in the Senate version of tlrn education spending bill being negotiated by !!oust> and SimatP confernes. 
Man files suit against Girl Scouts: A 
graphic designer for the Girl Scouts has filed a discrimination lawsuit alleging that the organi­zation denied him job promotions because of his gender. according to court records made public Tuesday. Joseph Picca's lawsuit says that in his 15 years working at the Girl Scouts. lw was denied on<\ promotion and barred from applying for others. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Indiana selects assistant coaches: 
Dan l'anaggio, a three-time coach of the y1~ar in the CBA. and Julius Smith were hirNI as assistants Tuesday by Mike Davis. Indiana's new basketball coach. Panaggio rnmpilPd a 313-191 record in ni,w seasons v..-ith the Quad City Thund1:r. the most victo­ries of any active CBA wach. Smith was an assistant at Southeastern Louisiana last sea­son and before that. he was at Tulane in that capacity for eight years. Davis was pro­moted from assistant to interim !wad coach last WPek after Bob Knight was firnd. 
Dow 
10,789.29 -19.23

]ONES 
CompositeUp: Same: Volume:l.08(, 480 1.268,489.984 

AMEX: 960.78 -11.0S
• 

Nasdaq: j865.64 -139.12 NYSE: 661.11 +l.33 S&P 500: [459.90 + 15.39 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

CO:APANY/SECllRITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE INTFI. <:(lRI' (INTCI ,-8.JX t-4.567" 60,_lR Ci:iUl :,y;-;·1T1'.l:i il:Sl'.()) d.2.\ t l.')]7~ fr2:,()(} (N:\1.(:0MM IN('. lt)CllMI + 11 .OJ T7_(,K7'\ 77.'\ll Mit".I\\\S\ll'T ('.Ul\1' iMSHl +.LI 7 +2.0000 (>5.00 In; C\lMMIINICAI I iMSl'Tl w40.tH, ~.n<)!_ 0.HK 
page 5 

---__-_---=--=--=--==-­
CUBA 

Associated Press 
KEY WEST 

A small plane that left Cuba with 10 people aboard Tuesday was hijacked before it crashed into the Gulf of Mexico, authorities said. One man was killed and the others were found clinging to debris and rescued by a cargo ship. 
The crew of the Chios Dream. a Panamanian-reg­istered freighter, recovered one body and the surv.ivors -three men, three women and three diildren -from rough seas nearly 300 miles off the Florida coast about five hours after the plane took off, the U.S. Coast Guard said. 
One man had severe head and neck injuries. A Coast Guard cutter planned to meet the freighter Tuesday night and pick up the survivors. The most seriously injured were to be flown to Key West for treatment. 
Details of who was on the flight and where it was going were unclear late Tuesday. It was unknown whether the plane ran out of fuel; the Coast Guard said it was heading west ­away from both Florida and Cuba -when it went down. 
"Apparently it was 
hijacked, and the pilot indi­cated they only had 1 1/2 hours fuel," said Lauren Gail Stover, associate director of Miami-Dade County Aviation Department. 
The Antonov AN-2 Colt took off from Herradura Airport in Pinar del Rio, in Cuba's western province. Based on the last radar location given by Cuban air traffic controllers and an emergency beacon signal picked up by a U.S. AWACS plane, the Colt was believed to have gone down about 90 miles southwest of Key West, 
U.S. officials said. The survivors were 
pulled from the water more than 200 miles west of that area, the Coast Guard said. 
Coast Guard Rear Adm. Thad Allen said he is "not really sure" why there was such a vast discrepancy between where the plane was believed to have crashed and where it actu­ally did. 
"In a lot of these cases, as they emerge, there is a lot of confusion," Allen said. 
Cuban officials initially reported that as many as 18 people were on the plane, but Allen said the survivors told the ship's crew that 10 were aboard. 

Peru proposes March elections 
As,ociated Press 
UMA 

Peru's government outlined plans Tuesdav for elections in '.vlarch to choose· a successor to President Alberto Fujimori, but the main opposi­tion leader insisted the voting should be sooner. 
It's nut clear whether the armed forces will go along with cithC'r plan, and the military -which may hold the key to a peaceful transition -has been silent so far. 
Fujimori. forced to loosen his decade-long grip on power by a 
bribery scandal engulfing his shadowy intelligence chief. announced Saturday hr would deactivate the National Intelligence Service and call new elec­lions in which he would not be a can­didate. 
Justice l\linister Alberto Bustamante said the elections to replace FLtjimori and the Congress would most likely be held in March and the new president would be sworn in July 28, Peru's tra­ditional inaugural date. 
"The elections could be in March but lhe one who has to call them is the president," Bustamante said. 
Peru's opposition, growing increas­ingly susp1c1ous of Fujimori's announced plans to give up power. demanded a much quicker timetable fo, him to leave. 
Alejandro Toledo, who pulled out of May's presidential runoff after charg­ing Fujimori planned to rig the results. insisted the new vote be held within four months and an interim govern­ment formed to oversee the election. 
"We need a government that has legitimacy, that respects the people's will and doesn't twist it as thev did on April 9." he told a rally of thousands of supporters Monday night. referring to the tainted first round. · 

·' 


---­ -- - ·­---- --- -- -------­-- - - 
page 6  The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS  Wednesday, Septmeber 20, 2000  
NEWS ANALYSIS  

Professors: calllpaigns are not focused on the issues 
By MARIBEL MOREY 
News Writer 
According to David Lcege, profossor of government, cam­paign thcmps are not about issues, but abnul which groups will bcnnfit from th11 kind of' leadt~rship thn candi­date would bring to the olfo:e. 
The 2000 

Leege
Bush­Clwnoy and Gorn-Lieberman campaigns am not primarily focused on party issues, but instead on p1~rsonality. 
"Bush has downplayed poli­cy and has concentrated on !lw inrngfl as u likeable, down­to-<!arth person," said Joshua Kaplan, associate director or undergraduatP studies and assistant professional special­ist in Hw government depart­nwnt. 
"(;om is carnf'ully following Clinton, using policy with broad appeal," he said. "In my opinion. both candidates have learned a lot from Clinton, on how to campaign successfully. lle's a model on how to win an election." 
Putting personality aside, the two candidates have pre­sentml mainly domestic issues. "l would guess that the issues an~ domestic issues: socia I insurancfi which includes social security, Medicarn, pre­scription drugs and everything else related to the high-costs people face with an illness," said Leege. "The second issue would include the responsible use of anticipated surplus." 
Kaplan agrees with the importance of these issues. "Now more of the issues are corning out which includes prescription drugs and 

defense spending and obvious­ly they're important, but it's not clear that the issues make a difference [in this election)." 
With a surplus the money can either go back to the peo­ple in the form of tax breaks or pay out part of the national debt. "Ironically, although Governor Bush argued for the tax cuts, he saw that he wasn't gaining many votes so he came back down from that." he said. "Now he's addressing the same type of issues as Gore -making a liv­ing and having a strong econ• omy." 
Issues arc the quality of edu­cation and access to educa­tion, said Lcego. "Bush pre­sents the education vouchers in a way that 'this is some­thing different,' but it's a familiar Republican value," said Kaplan. "Just like Clinton said, I'm a new kind of Democrat, Rush says he's a new kind of Republican." 
Bush has taken a middle­ground angle in this cam­paign. "More emphasis on per­sonality ... GoVfirnor Bush is trying to carve out new terri­tory. Ile hasn't presented l1im­Sfdf as an advocate of the tra­ditional Republican Party," said Kaplan. The Hepublicans face the problem of overcom­ing the policy of benefiting the minorities [the rich]." 
Close to the issue of person­ality, but somewhat unique is the Clinton fatigue. Some peo­ple think we need a change because they're tired of the Clinton administration, said Lcege. "For these voters, it doesn't matter who the Republican candidate is as long as it's now a Democrat," he said. 
When asked for the most important issues in this elec­tion, Leege declined to answer. "I 'don't think on this. I watch how each candidate tries to get an advocacy of this issue," he said. "It's too pre-
International Study Programs 
.. 
-~ . 
,.... 'E:""::~=::'~ 

~-~.,)~;aa.,A:r~-· ._.. 
~,~,~ .. :,_:,-;-·--:··,
-
:::..~~·.,. 

NAGOYA, JAPAN 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Prof. Setsuko Shiga Kathleen Opel. International Study Programs 
Thursday September 21, 2000 106 O'Shaughnessy 5:00 PM 
APfllCA TJON DEADLINE: December I, ZOOO 

mature to say which is the the candidates are trying to the true underdog. most important issue." sweet-talk their way through "In the·outcome, we'll sec Instead of debating issues on the back roads of the country whether this was persuasive nationally televised stations, and portraying themselves as or not," said Leege. 
~ HIGGINSLABOR~~HCE~ TONIGHT '"'"''''""'" 
$'~~ .........

¦ ------­$'~1\Jkf,v. 
The United Steelworkers of America and the Higgins Labor Research Center welcome ... fl 
!II 
·\~. 

Amy Dean 
Founder, Working Partnerships USA 
as the 23rd annual Lloyd McBride Lecturer at the University of Notre Dame campus 
speaking on the topic 
DO NEW ECONOMY WORKERS NEED UNIONS? 

Wednesday, September 20th 8:00pm in 102 DeBartolo Hall 
Amy Dean is recognized as one ofthe "most innovative figures in Silicon Valley," by the New York Times. As Executive Officer ofthe South Bay AFL-CIO, a federation of labor unions in Silicon Valley, she is responsible for leading the labor movement at the regional level and coordinating a unified voice for working families. 
presents in Technicolor: 
the music of '?~ ~~ 

Dark Side of the Moon 
the classic movie 
The Wizard of Oz 

~,~ m, ~~f; 
\ 155 Debartolo $2 admission 
Thurs. September 21 10: 3 0 pm 
Fri. September 22 
8: 0 0 & 10 : 3 0 pm 
Sat. September 23 
8: 0 0 & 10 : 3 0 pm 

*Guides will be provided. 
Wednesday, September 20, 2000 The Observer . NEWS page? 
Continental General will replace faulty tires 
. 62 tires have lost sections of tread due to heat 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Continental General Tire announced Tuesday that it will n)place for free about 
160.000 tires that can lose part of their tread. 
About 140,000 of the 16­inch ContiTrac AS tires were original equipment on about 38.000 1998 and 1999 model year Lincoln Navigators made by Ford Motor Co. Another 20,000 were sold as replacement tires. 
Charlotte. N.C.-based Continental said warrantv and claims data shows 62 of the tires have lost sections of tread when exposed to heat. The problem can lead to minor damage to the vehicle, but there have been no reports of accidents causing serious injuries or deaths, the company said. 
Con tin en tal and Lincoln referred to the move as a "customer satisfaction pro­gram" rather than a safety­related re·call like the one announced last month by Bridgestone/Firestone lnc. That company is recalling 6.5 million Firestone tires that have been linked to 103 U.S. traffic deaths. most involving rollovers of Ford Explorers. 
"We have a tire that is not performing to the quality standards that we set for our­selves. That's why we a_re taking this action, but it is not a safety-related issue," said Bernd Frangenberg. presi­dent and chief executive of Continental. 
"This case does not involve any rollover, any fatalities, any serious injuries or any litigation. We only know of one minor injury." 
Lincoln spokesman Jim Cain said the warranty and claims data for the Continental tires were ana­lyzed as part of Ford's inves­tigation into the Firestone tires. Lincoln is a division of Ford Motor Co. 
Lincoln and Continental officials met Tuesday with the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to dis­cuss their findings. A NHTSA official sa,id the agency would open an investigation to make. sure the replacement cam­paign is adequate. 
Owners of 1998 and 1999 Navigators should visit their Lincoln dealer for a tire inspection. If the tires are covered by the replacement program, they will be exchanged for free, including mounting and balancing. . Continental said it is ship­ping tires overnight to Lincoln dealers and expects that all replacements will be completed within eight weeks. 
College drafts sweatshop policy 
. Task force will act as a catalyst in raising awareness 
By MYRA McGRIFF News Writer 

On Aug. 31, Saint Mary's finished a final draft of their sweatshop policy. With help from students, faculty, administration and Worker Rights Consortion (WRC), the policy proposed many ways to stop the mistreatment of workers around the world. 
One way the policy hoped to ensure the protection of workers comes through a monitoring system. The dif­ferent purchasing depart­ments of Saint Mary's will require information from their vendors on how facto­ri.es are run. 
. "I have asked for vendors 
code of conduct," said Sandy 
VenderWerven, manager of 
Saint Mary's bookstore, and 
member of the anti-sweat­
shop committee. "I think they 
are taking it seriously. Some 
vendors have provided list of 
their factories. Jansport and 
Gear (vendors) have come 
out with global mission state­
ments." 

But some wonder if a ven­
dor's written code of conduct 
represents the actual work­
ing factory. 

"Whether they enforce those written codes is where the WRC comes in," said VenderWerven. 
The WRC, a non-profit organization, will serve as the eyes and ears for their college and university mem­bers. They will form groups to go out to vendor'_., listed factories and report their findings to the involved col­leges and universities. But it is up to each individual col­lege to decide what to do with the information. Saint Mary's, as out­
toring system to stop the exploitation of workers, the policy also set goals to enlighten students and other faculty members. The task force committee hopes to act a catalyst in raising aware­ness on campus. 
"The task force is to keep the issue alive and promote a strong educational compo­nent," said Karen Ristau, dean of faculty. 
With the help from the fac­ulty members on the task force committee, sweatshop specific materi­al can be made 

lined in "The task force is to available to t h e interested fac­
keep the issue alive 
sweat­ulty and stu­
and promote a
shop pol­dents. icy, will strong educational "One thing assign a the faculty will
component.,.
t a s k do is bring force to speakers to handle Karen Ristau campus and all WRC dean of faculty setup curricu­
findings. 

"The task force is a committee of students. faculty, and staff that will be Saint Mary's con­tact to the WHC," said Maureen Capilla, Saint Mary's student and member of task force. "We will make recommendations to the Board of Trus.tecs on how to proceed with that informa­tion." 
Not only does the sweat­shop policy outline a moni­
lum· for profes­
sors that incor­porates sweatshop issues," said Capillo. 
The next meeting for the task force will be in early October. By the end of meet­ing they hope to have a draft of their year goals and all they hope to accomplish. 
"It's coming along," said VenderWerven, "and the goal is to get this up and running as quick as possi­ble." 



LAZARD
''-, 


·\ 
A~r--Cordially invites-University of 
1 . 
should 

Wednesday, Seprmeber 20, 2000 
page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
TA 
continued from page 1 
students starting tlrn graduate program in 1997 and 1998 was relatively small. In both years, several student., who had commit­ted to Notre Dame changed their minds before enrolling. 
As a result, the government department cannot assign a TA to every course the department would like to assign one to. "A dass hm; to have a higher enroll­ment to get a T /\," Coppedge said. 
Although there is no set rule, the department tries to assign a TA to each class with 35 student..;; or mort-, he explained. However, for the past few years. a class has needed 40 or 45 students before lhe department would assign a 
TA. 
The govl'rnmPnt department is not almw. An insuflicicnt supply of graduate studPnts bas chal­lenged th1~ chemistry and bio­dwmislry clepartmcnL, according to dcpart.ml'nt chair Alexandnr Lappin. 
Tho currn11tly strong economy makes attracting graduato stu­,knts di!Dcult !'or chemistry and biochmnistry departments at uni­versities nationwide, Lappin said. lfocausn chemists with a master's degrPn in the discipline are able Lo earn good salaries working for corporations, students are less likely to spend lhe time required to earn a Ph.D. 
"We could probably support 20 
the department right now, but 
I recruiting graduate students] is a 
very competitive business," 
Lappin said. "We have prntty high 
I admission! standards ... We don't 
take anyone off the streP-L" 
IloWlWtlf, recrui ling diflkultics mean fewer graduate students are studying chemistry, and therefore Lhere arc less students available to become T As. 
Furthermore, graduate studen1s might receive another source of fonding, such as a fflllowship. meaning they would no longer need to take a TA position, Murray said. Such opportunitfos for graduate students could fur­ther contribute to a department's TA shortage. 
Not having enough TAs can be a problem because assistants are important figures in undergradu­ate courses. 
"They're very important in terms of transferring knowledge on how to do the labs." Lappin said. "ITAs are] vital to lhe safety aspcc-:t." 
Although the chemistry depart­ment has been experiencing this problem, it has been able to cover iis needs, according to Lappin. Indeed, the chemistry and gov­ernment departments --as wnll as other departments -have come up with ways to work around lhe small pool of graduate students. 
Part of the l'hemistry depurt­monl's solution has been to have undergraduate majors in their junior and senior years servn as TA.;, Lappin said. Currently, about half of the TAs for freshman-level general chemistry are undergrad­uates. 
The government department, on the other hand, has looked beyond its own discipline. Each semester, it hires four to six law students, most of whom majored in political science as undergrad­uates, to be TAs. according to Coppedge. 
"There's been a lot of competi­
tion among law students for these 
positions, so we've been able to be 
selective," he said. 
Although law students have not 
completely made up for the TA shortage, they have helped, Coppedge said. He added that the shortage is becoming less signifi­cant because a full class of stu­dents entered the graduate pro­gram in 1999. 
If some departments with grad­uate programs are having diflicul­ties because of TA shortages, the problem is even more pronounced in undergraduate departments that do not have a corresponding graduate program. 
"In some department'>, there is no opportunity to have TAs at all, and they have to figure out how to deal with large classes without that luxury," Murray said. 
For example, the anthropology department offers only an under­graduate degree, and therefore there are no qualified graduate students to become assistants. 
''It restricts our elTorL'i at expan­sion.•· said department chair Patrick Gaffney. 
Lack of graduate students to serve as TAs is a major reason why the department is unlikely to offer another large class again. 
"With that big of a class, it's hard to keep in touch with the student component," Gaffney said. "That's where a TA comes in." 
For its mega-class last semes­ter, the anthropology department hired an anthropologist, who hap­pened to be the spouse of a facul­ty member, to serve as a TA. She worked about 20 hours a week, on ta'lks such a.s grading papers. However, hiring non-student out­side help is rare, according to Gaffney. 
Although the anthropology department shies away from classes with high enrollment, pro­fessors in the departmnnt still have a need for TAs. Therefore, Gaffney said, the department hires undergraduate upperclass­
men Lo help professors with tasks 
such as research. 

"We call them teaching assis­
tant.c;, but they don't do tho work 
graduate teaching assistants do. 
We'd love to have graduate TAs," 
Gaffney explained. 

Of course, many graduate stu­
dents love to be TAs. 

"I love to teach," said Nadine 
Dacanay, who is in the second . year of the College of Architecture's masters' degree program. "It takes a lot of energy, but when you soe your students progress ... it's really satisfying." 
Before beginning her masters' 
degree work, Dacanay said she 
was interested only in establishing 
a private architecture practice. 
However, her experience as a TA 
has been so positive. she said, that 
she now wants to incorporate 
teaching into her career. 


• 

All New: All Yours: All Free 
MadAdz 


I . 
Wednesday, September 20, 2000 The Obseruer . CAMPAIGN 2000 page 9 
Cheney: Gore talks the talk, but doesn't walk the walk 
FRESNO, Calif. On Gore's misrepresentation "As we get closer and closer Gore and his running mate, than go "hobnob with the 
SP em ingly d Ppu lizod to of costs paid by his family for to Election Day, you'll see Sen. Joseph Lieberman of same folks," said Cheney. rough up Al Gore. Dick Cheney an arthritis drug, he said: more contrast," she said. Connecticut, took in $4.2 mil­For a second day, Cheney said Tuesday the vice presi­"Clearly, Al Gore is going Hunning mates are often lion at a Beverly Hills fund­criticized Gore for using fig­ciPnl has a paltern of "saying around the country making up used as attack dogs while raiser l\Ionday night where ure·s in a study to represent one thing stories presidential candidates run a the vice president toned down what his family actually pays and doing 
about his more positive campaign, but earlier warnings that he for the arthritis drug Lod.ine something family." it's taken Cheney a while to would sanction Hollywood for for his mother-in-law and his Plse." On tort become pointed in his criti­marketing violencP tc) kids. dog. 
W hi I e reform. he cisms of Gore. "lie threatened the media Gore had tried to make the lw's ol'ten said the Chem~y said the vice presi­industry with retribution or point that companies charge rnl'e:1-rPd to Clinton: dent shifted positions on regulation if they didn't shape far more for a drug sold to himself as G o r e Ilollywood to mollify his linan­up within six months and then humans than for the same a "man of adrninistra­ci al backers in the entertain· yesterday he said well, he drug sold for pets, but the 1· e w t i O 11 rncnt industry. really didn't mean it, he just costs lrn cited were not those w o r ct s . .. Cheney claimed to "We've seen him on the one wants to nudge them a little of his family. Ccorgn W. support hand campaign that he's on bit," Cheney said. Cheney voiced some frustra­Bush's Republican running limits on lawsuit awards to the side of moms and dads Cheney said he opposes any tion that missteps in the llush mate found many words to win favor with Silicon Valley with respect to worrying kind of censorship to stop stu­campaign s£rnm to get more paint Gore as a hypocrite. technology companies, bu·t about what's peddled to our dios from marketing-violence attention than Gore mistakes. 
On Gore and Hollywood, then vetoed that step "after kids and at night he goes and tu children and said the best "When a Republican miss­Clwney said the vicP presirlent cutting a deal with trial raises monry from the same way to stop the practice is to peaks, that's big news," criticized the marketing of lawyers." people," Cheney told reporters "hold the industry up to public Cheney said. "I think it's violence to kids and then w·hat's going on with the during a campaign swing condemnation" when they aim equally important to ask a "raised millions of dollars low-key ChPney? Juleanna through California. "He'll say inappropriate material at kids. question about a vice presi­from tlw same movie moguls Glover-Weiss. speaking for virtually anything to any audi­"I think public officials can dent who simply makes up who an\ corrupting our chil­him, said his tougher tone is a ence and switch l'rom audi­make it clear that we think it's things out of whole cloth and dre11." "natural evolution." ence to audience." unacceptable behavior" rather repPats them over and over." 




ln1erfai1h Chris1ian Niah1 Prayer has 

Same Awesome Prayer Same Awesome Music New Awesome Location: Morrissey Chapel 
TONIGHT Ewery Wednesday @ Io p.m. MORRISSEY Hall Chapel ALL ARE WELCOME 





r--------------------------------~---,.-----­
------7 
page JO The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, September 20, 2000 
Fire 
continued from page 1 
when the temperature reaches around150 to165 degrees. Until sm()ke reaches the hallway, how­ever, the only the sprinkler in the mom where the fire originates will bl' activated. 
"The new system is much more sensitive overall than the old one," Beatty said. 
At Saint Mary's, sprinkler sys­tems are in place in every room, in every residence hall except McCandless Hall. "I think most institutions emphasize fire safety, but our policy has always been the same," said Dana North, director of' Residence Life at Saint Mary's College. "I think students became more aware of it after Seton llall and I think parents became more aware ofit, too." 
Because of the alert systems, sprinklers, lire drills, and other precautions taken by the University to educate students about fire safety, Dillon Hall junior Colin Grady feels confident he would escape unharmed if lhere were ever a real fire in Dillon Hall, "I know the rules. Stop. drop, and roll." 
CAMBODIA 
Explosion kills two in 
capital city 
As~ocia1ed Press 
l'llNOM PENll 
An explosion near the royal palacp in central Phnom Penh killHd two pnoplc and injured ni,w TuPsday. policn said. 
II was not clear if the explo­sion was caused by a bomb or somP other device, said So Chivy, an inttdligoncc officer with thP national military police. Unr.onfirrned r<)ports said a man driving on a motorcycle threw a grnnadn, lw said. 
Tim blast occurrnd al a street corrwr in Don Tnnh district. a mixed residPnlial and business an1a. 
"What \Vf~ know is tbat one lady, a bread sellnr, was killed," So ('.hivy said. "She was pushing her cart along the street when tlw explosion happflned." 
!IP said 10 people, including oun child anti tlirec women. wiirn hospitalizPd, most wilh serious injuries. One of the injurnd had died, he said. lit~ did not know thP idnntity of the dPad 1wrso11. 
"This appt·ars not related to politics," lw said. 
!\ relative or the dead woman wailed from the balcony of the house where she lived as police earrit!d hnr body away. Blood was splatlnred on the street. 
No other dntails were avail­able and no one immediately claimi:d responsibility for the explosion. 
Security in the capital had improved in the past 18 months after officials, using random road checks, collected a cache of' unliclmscd weapons. 
Tf1ns of thousands of 
Cambodians remained armed as 
the country struggled to emerge 
from three decades of turmoil. 

IRAN 
FeIDale activist applies to run for president 
. Iranian officials claim candidacy is unconstitutional 
Associated Press 
TEHRAN 

A little-known woman con­
servative activist said Tuesday . she hopes to be the first woman to run for president in 
Iran, a goal some say is uncon ­
stitutional. 
"I've made my decision to 
run in next year's presidential 
elections. I'm going to fight in 
the polls as an independent," 
Farah Khosravi, 41, told The 
Associated Press, 
She spoke on Women's Day, 
celebrated on the anniversary 
of the birth of Fatima, daugh­
ter of Islam's prophet 
Mohammad. 
Nineteen-year-old Maryam 
Pakshir marked the day with a 
training flight, making her the 
nation's youngest woman pilot, 
the official Islamic Republic 
News Agency reported 
Tuesday. 
The status of women in Iran has improved since the elec­tion of reformist President Mohammad Khatami in 1997. About 58 percent of first-year students at Iranian universities were women in 1999, accord­ing to official figures. Khatami appointed a woman as one of his vice presidents and l 1 women sit in Iran's 290-seat parliament. 
Women can hold public office in Iran, a role barred to them elsewhere in the region. But they have not reached the highest office in the country. 
Although no official date has been set for the next presiden­tial election, it is expected in May 2001. 
The Guardian Council, which acts as an upper chamber of parliament and oversees elec­tions, rejected an application from a liberal-minded opposi­tion woman who sought to run for president in 1997, saying it was unconstitutional. 
The constitution says the presidency is open to "rijal" ­a Farsi term that has so far been interpreted to mean men. Khatami believe Khosravi's Some experts now say that candidacy would be a publicity should be interpreted as stunt by hard-liners. "respectable people," regard­"Hard-liners are trying to less of gender. discourage Khatami from run­
'Tm hoping very much that ning or at least try to under­the council will approve my mine his votes through differ­application in order to pave the ent tactics, including bringing 
way for women to play a "I've made my decision greater social 
to run.,. . I'm going to 
and political 
fight in the polls as
role in the 

establish­an independent." m e n t . " Khosravi 
Farah Khosravi

said. Khosravi is presidential candidate in charge of postings at 
the Ministry of Sciences. popular president, who said in Research and Technology. She July that ho planned to run for has a masters degree in man­another four-year term. agement. She also is secretary­Women and young Iranians general of the conservative­were a support base for leaning lran-e-Farda Society, a Khatami when he defcatnd a little-known group of political hard-liner in 1997. activists. Khatami was elected with 
She ran for parliament twice, more than 70 percent of the failing to win a seat each time. vote, obtaining over 20 million Reformists who support votes. 
forward a woman can­didate,"said reformist lawmaker Fatemeh Haqiqatjou. 
Haqiqatjou s a i d Khosravi would be "no serious chal­lenge" to the 

We didn't become Fortune~ magazine's America's Most Admired Company* by accepting the status quo. We got there by hiring and training confident graduates with the courage to think in innovative and revolutionary ways. 
No other corporation can match the diversity of oppor­tunities at GE. Because we have small company attitudes with large company strengths, we set no limits, no boundaries. You can move from industry to industry, discipline to discipline, and never leave GE. 
We're a leader in every business we compete in, and we're looking for leaders like Trent who will take us even further. Start your career by visiting our website now. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Learn about us at 

www.gecaree,:,s.com 
---------------------------=~=ebring good things to life. 
~E Aircraft Engines· GE Applia":'"'." GE Capi)al Services· GE Corporate Research and Development• GE Industrial Systems 
Come /eam about GE's entry level training programs for business majors at the 
Business Career Forum 
September 21st Mendoza College of Business 
6:00-8:30 PM 
Note: Forum held on the 
22ndfrom 9:30-3:30. 


. _ . _ • _ •• _ • • • • • _ • • • • • • . • • • • • • GE Global eXchange Services· GE Lighting• GE Medical Systems· GE Plastics· GE Power Systeflls, GE Supply, GE Transportation Systems. NBC 
1 w .. ------__ ..,_.. r" .._-_-.-... ·.-.-#; ·----,1 :i l_r.,;; .,:.::.; =• ~=-=;;;;.:..:;;:~v 

Wednesday, September 20, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Senate changes U.S. policy, approves China trade bill 
American products and ideas ture, represents the biggest step Communist country. major concessions in reducing
Associated Press 
and wri.ting the end to a half­in U.S.-China relations since In the end, those arguing that tariffs and opening its markets. WASJUNGTON century of C.S policy isolating President Nixon's "1972 visit to the United States must do more China is expocted to join the The Senate voted Tuesday to the communist giant. the Great Wall and ends the divi­to bring China's communist gov­WTO later this year or early next permanently normalize trade The 83-15 vote, sending the bill sive annual debates over U.S. ernment into the international -year, and the United States, in with China. hoping to open to Prosident Clinton for his signa-trade policy toward the community prevailed over critics order to enjoy the benefits of warning that Congress was China's commitment to WTO free putting profits ahead of principle. market rulP.s, must grant perma­
"We will find, I believe nent trade status. America has far more influence Sen. Max Baucus. D-Mont., in China with an outstretched stressed that it will still be up tu hand than with a clenched fist," Americans to take advantage of Clinton said after the Senate new market opportunitiAs. vote. "The more China opens its "Passage of PNTH will be one for markets to our products. the the history books, of profound wider it opens its doors to cco­implication to the United States, nom ic freedom and the more but once it passes then we fully it will liberate the potential Amrricans have to put our shoul­of its people." ders to the wheel, we have to fol­
The House passed PNTH, or low up." 
the permanent normal trade With \,YTO entry, China's tariffs rnlations bill. last May. The legis­on U.S. made manufactured lation. backed by a powuful goods would fall from an overall coalition of average of 25 
business and percent to 9 farm groups, "The more China opens percent by was praised by 2005. Duties
its markets to our
U.S. Tradr, on America's
products, the wider it
Representative primary food Charlene opens its doors to products Barshefsky, would drop
economic freedom and
who said it was from 31 per­
the more fully it will
"as important cent to 14 as any on China liberate the potential percent. since 1972. China would 
ofits people."
with the open­be required to ing of China" by open its finan• President Bill Clinton cial and ser­
The New Team at Moreau Seminary 
Nixon. She said president vice industries it marked a to American "historic mile-companies, post" in the rocky relations that allow greater outside ownership have existed since Mao Tse-tung in its telecommunications indus­brought the communists to try and allow Americans full dis­
G'Day Mates! 
power in 1949. tribution rights within the coun­"This historic legislation will be try. · remembered as the key that Agriculture exports alone opened the door for America to could grow by some $2 billion a 
ANSWER ~ 
sell its products and services to year, helping reduce China's cur­
THECALL W 
the world's largest emerging rent $68 billion trade surplus 
marketplace," said Robert Burt, with the United States. chairman of The Business "We wanted to be the first ones Roundtable, an association of here. This has big potential for 
CEOs. agriculture states like North 
The bill revises a 1974 law Dakota," said North Dakota Gov. under which trade relations with Ed Schafer, chairman of the communist states are subject to Republican Governors annual review. Since the 1989 Association, in a call from Beijing crackdown on the Tiananmen where he is heading a state trade democracy movement, congres­delegation. Under the pact, he sional critics of China have made said, China must increase its 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 
The Papacy in Crisi~: 
concerted, if unsuccessful. efforts quota of tariff-free wheat every year to rescind normal imports fivefold to 350 million trade status because of Beijing's bushels a year.
Pope Pius XII and World War II 
human rights and weapons pro­"One out of eight jobs in Illinois liferation abuses. depends upon exports and pas­
The bill to make trade rela­sage of this critical measure tions permanent is an outgrowth means that Congress' vote will of a U.S.-China agreement last impact the lives of 600,000 fall under which China, as a con­Illinoisans and their families," dition for entering the World said Illinois Gov. George Ryan, a Trade Organization (WfO), made Republican. 
September 23 
9am-12:30pm 
: I 
Sophomores & Juniors! 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
$CHOLAR$HIP$ AVAILABLE NOW!
Guest Speakers 
AF ROTC -Producing Leaders for the Michael Phayer, Marquette University 
Air Force and Building better citizens for 
"Pius XII in the Eyes ofHis Contemporaries" 
John Pollard, Cambridge University 
"Pius XII: the Man, the Pontificate, and the Historical Problem" 
Jose Sanchez, Saint Louis University 
"Why Pius did not make a strong protest: Perception and Reality" 
Stewart Stehlin, New York University 
Non-competitive Scholarships ­
"Pacelli, Germany and the Reichskonkordat of 1933" 
$17,480 annually, are available for select majors for sophomores and 
Sponsored by The Nanovic Institute for European Studies 
for ALL juniors! 
The Cushwa Center for the Study ofAmerican Catholicism 
Don't waste a moment! Contact Captain Klubeck at 631-4676, or Klubeck.1@nd.edu 

Fr. Bill Miscambk, L~.C Brisbane, Australia 

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 OBSERVER Wednesday, September 20, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
I' 0 Box Q. Notre Dome. IN 46556 024 South D111in1, Hall. Notre !hmc. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING ElllTOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Tim Lane 

AsST, MANAGING EDITOR OrERATIONS MANAGER Christine Kra!y Brian Kessler 
NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie Maccingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smirh SCENE EDrrOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARis EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Pat Peters Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila Si'STF.MS ADMINISTIV<T0R: Mike G11nville WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: jtlse Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGERIGENeRAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............. .. .. ... .. ..........................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................63 J-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT, ME.. .................. 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.. .....................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 

VIEWPOINT................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SPORTS .... ........................................ 631-4543 observer .sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE... ......................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO.... . . .....................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMl1'1S TRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at lmp:l!observrr.11dedu for daily updates of campus news, sports. features and opinion columns.•is well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from die Associated l'res.s. 
SUR•· TO: 
movic.lmusic for
weather for up-to-the 
mjnute tOrecasrs 
weekly smdent reviews 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
and rares of pri111 ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer
archives co search for 
arcides publ i.shed afte1 
ro meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
l'he Observer is the indq"'ndem. daily newspaper published in pnm and online by the scudems ofche University ofNorrc Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content. including advertisements, i.s nm governed bv policies ot the adminimacion ofeither instimtion. The• Observer reserves th,· right co refuse adveniscments ha.sed on content. 
The news is reponed as accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned ruicoriab represent che opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor. AssistJnt Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letcers and columns presem the views of the authors and not neces5arily chose ofThe. Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available co all readers. The free expression ofall opiniom through letters is encollraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include comact mtormacion. 
Quritiom regnrding Oburoer po/icier should be dirm­rd ro Editor in ChiefMil,, Connolly. 

"A female Irish Guard'? You have to be kidding!" "I got it from a reliable source. Read The Observer tomorrow." 
"\'\!ho is she?" 
"Molly Kinder." 
I am sure that 
MSPS

similar conversa­tions were echoed either on the tele­phone, in e-mail or 
What's Your

in face to face inter­
Shade?

actions throughout the Notre Dame stu­dent body and alum­ni network. I, like the rest of the Notre Dame community, was in shock, as well as pleasantly surprised. when I read the front page article in The Observer. I began to reflect on the changes that I had witnessed since my family became affiliated with the University. 
In 1980. I attended events sponsored by the Black Alumni of Notre Dame (BA of NDI and heard many discussions about Frazier Thompson '47, the first African-American graduate. During a 1990's alumni reunion, Mr. Thompson was acknowledged formally with the cre­ation of the Frazier Thompson Scholarship and years later the BA of ND Exemplar Awards. The scholarship is given to a male and female African­American junior who represent the tenacity and values of Mr. Thompson. The BA of ND Exemplar Awards recog­nized faculty, administrators, staff and alumni for tiieir civic, international and Notre Danie contributions. The latter ini­tiative resulted in the largest class of African-American students in 1990: 109 students. 
Although the numbers declined rapidly following the Students United for Respect demonstration in 1991. the Latino stu­dents had a sharp increase to 130 stu­dents. This was a result of the creation of the Hispanic Alumni of Notre Dame net­work and their recruiting efforts. Shortly thereafter the Asian Pacific Alumni of Notre Dame came into being. The inclu­sion of the historically under-represented alumni groups to the Alumni Association provided significant recruitment assis­tance to the Admissions Office and their efforts. Hence, attendance of students of color and international students has grown from 12 percent in 1991 to 18 percent in 2000. The support and men­toring these alumni affiliates provided has been an asset to the University by enhancing the preparation of the entire student body for life after Notre Dame. Thank you to Father Malloy for your commitment to diversity, which permit­
ted the growth in both arenas. 
The seeds of change had been planted by Father Hesburgh during his tenure as University president with the birth of the BA of ND. I am sure when women were admitted in the 1970s, he had no idea that 30 years later, a female would be part of the Irish Guard. This is possibly the same surprise held by many male alumni with the admittance of women, who became nearly 50 percent of the student body in the mid-1990s. 
The realization of visions that I felt my grandchildren would witness actually occurred with the naming of Michael Brown as the head leprechaun not only once, but twice. I remembm· visiting with Demetrius Marlowe, a former academic advisor for the athletes, in the early 1990s and kidding him about the mural of the black leprechaun he had painted on his entire east wall in his Main Building office. I told him that we knew it would happnn one day, but I doubtnd if either he or I would witness it. Well, the student body and judges proved us both wrong. 
Yes, the student body has recognized the contributions of all students and have been instrumental in cracking the glass ceilings and making new traditions. The collaborative efforts of the Campus Life Council. Student Government and staff members of Multicultural Student Programs and Services, Residence Life, Student Activities and Campus Ministry resulted in grassroot initiatives such as the Prejudice Reduction Workshops and the Learning to Talk about Hace Retrnats. The latter are being conducted on other campuses following Notre Dame's presentations at national confer­ences. Also. the creation of the Practicum on Diversity Education course has added to the dialogue of respect versus toler­ance. Thank you to Student Affairs for sharing in the actualization of a vision to make the University truly "welcoming to all." 
The resurgence of the Latino Studies Program through the Latino Institute speaks to the University's additional commitment to diversifying the academic arena. The institute is cross listed with other departments, Dr. Gil Cardenas and staff who are renown in the Latino/Hispanic academic field. Julian Samora, who began Notre Dame's first Latino Studies program several decades prior and left to establish the same at the University of Michgan where it still flour­ishes after his death is wondering why it took the University so long. 
With the rebirth of the Notre Dame Program comes the enhancement of the African-American Studies Program. This year the program welcomes four Erskirn~ Peters Fellows, who are in the process of completing their dissertation. The Provost office has also hired several additional African-American faculty of' tenure and junior status in the dep~rt­ments of psychology, govnrnnrnnt and English. For their success, wn as a com­munity must support their nnd1;avors. 
Notre Dame has come a long way since Frazier Thompson graduated in 194 7. but the journey is not over. I low we will gP.t then; depends on each onn of us. /\re we open and receptive to thn !'acuity of' color or do we spnnd time challenging them and their credentials? I>o we respect the contributions of all our pro­ject team members regardless of race, ethnicity, gender, etc.? What personal commitment have we made to Notre Dame and humankind? 
1 see daily the voluntcnr r,fforts of ND students in the Michiana community. Let's take the religious l'oundations ·and teachings which rirntivate us to give will­ingly of our time to lrnlp those who arn disenfranchised outside of tlrn ND family and apply the same und1ffstanding and compassion to those who are part of the ND family-peer, administrators, facul­ty and staff. 
This column was written by Kevin Huie, who is the assistant director of Multicultural Student Programs and Services. 

The views expressed here are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obseruer. 

SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Sports is the only entertainment where. no matter how many times you go back, you never know the ending." 
Neil Simon dramatist and screenwriter 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Wednesday, September 20, 2000 BSERVER page 13 
Endulge a little healthy revolution 
"Do you feel I.ired, rundown, listless'? Do you poop-out at parties?" If you know where this quote is from, then you are very cool in my opinion. But seriously, are you tired of the run-of-the-mill. day-to-day movement we moderns call living" Do you ever wish you were a CIA agent in Polanrl during the Cold War? No? Why the heck not? Anna Barbour 
But seriously, Thomas Jefferson once said something to the effect that a little revolution now and again is good for a society, and Get A Life what's healthy for a soeiety has to be healthy for each and every indi­vidual in it, right'? Right. So now we have both eneountered a problem and a solution. How many times does that happen? We are tired, worn down, but no worries because we have an answer, revo­lution! If you say lung live France the French way, as in, "Vive la Prance," vou can almost hear the excitement the words invoke: 
By now, thuugh, if you are thoroughly encouraged by my penetrating perception into the human spirit, it \JUght to have occurred to you to ask, where do I sign up? What do I do? Who do I talk to? Just as an effective stampede has to ha\'e more than three head of cattle, an effective insurrection also has to have more than three participators. Sadly, you will just end your life more quickly instead of making it more exciting by mutinying 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Crossing over both ways 
I would like to commend you on finally represent­ing students who attend both '.\ID and SMC. However, your article stresses Notre Dame students who take courses at Saint Mary's and barely mentions SMC stu­dents who have a major at both schools. I want to let you know that every day Saint Mary's students cross Route 33 not to go to a party or a sporting event. but to go to class. 
Elizabeth Warburton junior off-campus September 19, 2000 
all by yourself. You've got to have friends. Friends are key, friends and lots of protest signs. I inadvertently also forgot to mention that the modern rebellion must be peareful. It really must, otherwise you just get blown to bits, besides its not very chic. I'm reminded of the age­old saying that you can bring a lot of bees to honey ... but if you try to, for example, use poison gas and bombs, you will simply destroy all the bees. Something like that. The point is, the modern rebellion is about fooling alive, going against the Man (i.e. government), not nuking the entire world. I believe I have made my point. 
Alright, so now we've talked out what is ailing us, dis­covered the malady if you will -that naggi"'. why get up in the morning, let me drown myself in fine beer atti­tude. Then, we've decided upon the general remedy, "Vive la Revolutione!" We've planned out the necessary equipment -people, lots of people and placards. Are we done? Heck no, living is not easy, so how can better living bo any easier'.' 
There remain two items on our agenda. First, what are we going to put on our signs and chant out loud so all the fuzz (police) can hear? It has got to be something catchy and fun to say, after all, we arc trying to be exciting. I am reminded of a somewhat famous movie from the late seventies about a prison revolt. I never saw the movie and I don't think many people really care much about the movie. But most people, people who are in the know, have heard the chant, "Attica! Attica!" a time or two, and it, like "Vive la France," is highly inspiring. Secondly, you really have to have something to rebel against; the "Establishment" is simply passe. 
Don't worry, I have pondered what to rebel against: the bookstore. Yes! The beautiful, but suspicious book­store right here on ND campus. And why? Well, now to the crux of this article, the textbook monopoly. Sure profit margining goes on everywhere; the ND bookstore and Copy Shop are perhaps only using good business savvy, but the point is, do we have to take it? So there it is. A perfect time, the beginning of the year, you are still fresh. A perfect problem, a highway robbing, thriving, book, blackmarket-like. trading business going on in our own backyard. Don't sit by idle, twiddling your thumbs. Make signs. Gather friends. Take a stand and feel alive, really alive. Get a loudspeaker and make uproarious demands upon the bookstore and the Copy Shop. 
I suppose one could also just boycott the bookstore's monopolistic business. Stage a sit-in in South Dining Hall, but be certain to use hand-cuffs or it just won't be quite the same. You won't feel quite as alive. But remember, you got this wonderful idea yourself. 
Anna Barbour is a junior theology and pre-med major. Her column appears every other Wednesday. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Upholding higher standard for Irish fans 
Promote ND image to those who view our actions 
Here are a few notes on Mathew Lester's letter titled, "Fans don't take back scat to tradition." 
1. 
Ile is right. Then• are some things about Notre Dame he does not understand. 

2. 
It is not disrespectful for WNDU to inter­view Purdue fans in the student section. Interviewing is their business. 

3. 
It is never appropriate to throw some­thing at an unsuspecting person. It has noth­ing to do with being a "fan." 

4. 
It docs not matter how students at other schools behave. We strive to be a cut above. The opponent section is never the bench­mark. 


!'i. In the !ast paragraph or Matthew's let­ter. he said that people outside of ND, "may refer to our proud tradition and class, but do not expect us to not be fans." Our tradition and class is dependent on us living up to it. Going to a school with a good reputation does not give you a license to be a jerk. The reason we have a good reputation is because our students have earned it in tho past. If you don't act like a "Notre Dame student," Hrnn you are erasi.ng the work of 158 years. 
Matthew is not the only one on this cam­pus who feels that Notre Dame is held to a higher standard. However. it is our proud tradition that we embrace and exceed these standards. When we fail, it is a discredit to our reputation. Plenty of Notre Dame haters smile every time they hear of a Notre Dame fan acting without class. Don't ever give them the satisfaction. Instead, realize that every time you come in contact with some­one outside of our Notre Dame family, it is an opportunity to spread the Notre Dame spirit. 
Steven Reed senior Carroll Hall Seplember 19. 2000 

Need for class is obvious 
Somebody help me out here. I can't tell if Mr. Lester was being sar­castic in his letter on Tuesday, or if he is truly so misguided as to think that being hostile to visiting fans is part of Notre Dame tradition. I'd like to give him the benefit of the doubt and think that Mr. Lester is trying to make some sort of sarcastic point, but I've just got this sink­ing feeling. 
Okay. I'll admit I've been known to act like a complete idiot at Notre Dame football games. In the past, I've been so emotionally involved in what happened on the field, that I'd yell out some terrible things. I've felt my blood boil at the site of visiting fans in our student section. I've wanted to run out onto the field and strangle the refs. 
But when the game was over, and I had some time to reflect on my behavior, I always came to realize what a buffoon I'd been. That's why I can't begin to understand what Mr. Lester is trying to say. Anyone that would throw something at opposing fans is an embarrassment to the ND community. Anyone who would throw something at opposing fans on camera is just plain stupid. And anyone who thinks that criti­cism of such acts is unfair needs a reality check. 
We are ND. Cheer loud. Be proud, Don't be foolish. If you don't want to live up to the standard, find someplace with a lower standard. Go Irish. 
Matt Quirion 
Class of '00 September 19, 2000 
T E L I 0 N 

page 14 Wednesday, September 20, 2000 
Fall TV season premieres with fresh face 
Networks rely on popular classics for solid ratings among faithful fans 
By MATT K[LLEN 
Scene Writer 

While lelevision vfowers gear up for au onslaught of rww shows this fall. some have been waiting months to sne tlwir favorite programs return to the tube with all rww (lpisodes. 
Though the Olympics have made them wait even longer than usual. this year's sum­mer of wailing will rnward viewers 
Detectives
with a particularly solid line up of 

Briscoe and
some groal returning shows. 

Green (Jerry
Tlw most anticipated of these 

Orbach and
shows is NBC's "The West Wing." 
Coming off a record nine well­

respectively).
dmmrwd Emmy awards (including 
While Green
Best Drama) earlier this month, 
fumbled occa­

"Tlw Wost ,ving" left viewers 
sionally during
hanging with an exciting 
his freshman

clinliangc\r. 
outing on the
In last May's season finale, a 
show, time will

group of' unknown assailants 
OJH'Hed fin, nn ('resident Josiah Bartlntt (Martin She£rn) and his group of White !louse staff members. The big ques­tion is, "\Vlio got slwt?"Another unanswered factor is tlw assailants' idnntitiiis. /\re they white supremacists who are angry at the President's daughter Zoey (Elizabeth Moss) for dating Bartlett's African­American personal assistant, Charlie Young (Dule llill)'? Or is it someone else entirely? 
"The West Wing" was solid in all of its episodes last year and shows no signs of slowing down. With /\llison Janney and Richard Schiff coming off of sup­porting actor Emmys, this series is being recognized for tlw immense talent that it pulls from. 
There's not a weak link in the entire cast, which ranges broadly in both age (llill) and name recogni­tion (Sheen and co-star Hob Lowe). This season's Ppisodes promise to deliver more of last year's quali­ty, aided by the unique ability of "The West Wing"'s creator and writer Aaron Sorkin to blend seamlessly politics and entertainment. 
As tlw best show on television enters its sophomore sHasnn, it has just a few details to work on. While "The West Wing" does address cur­rent political issues, they are occasion­ally cumber­
"DAG" 

some and downright boring. The 
COURTESY OF NBCMV.COM 

episudHs also have a tendency lo wrap up just a Iiltle loo neatly. So who survives the assassination attempt? The srrncial two-hour season premiere on October 4 at 8 
p.m. will answer that question. 

Occupying tho l\iBC timeslot after "The West Wing" is pornnnial favorite "Law & Order." Prernioring on Ocl. 18 at 9 p.m., "Law & Order" returns for its clcvnnth snason, this time without District Attorney Adam ScllilT (Steven llill). As the only remaining orig­inal cast member, llill called it quits at the end of last season. llis grumpy-yet-understated style will be missed. 
Replacing llill will Im Diane Weist ("The llorsc Whisper1w," "The Hirdcage"). While the DA's role on tlrn show is relatively minor, it will still be interesting to seP how everyone's favorite assistant district attor­ney Jack McCoy (Sam Waterston) will react to his new boss. Undoubtedly, he'll be unhappy. 
Waterston will be joined by returning cast member 
Angie Harmon as his assistant Abbie Carmichael. On the other side of the show are 
hopefully have 

a soothing effect on his acting prowess. Hounding things off on "Law & Order's" cast is their returning boss, Lt. Anita Van Buren (Epatha Mmkerson). 
Another show on the side of the law is ABC's "The Practice," which begins its fifth season at 9 p.m. on October 8. After Bobby Donnell (Dylan McDermott) and Lindsay Dole (Kelli Williams) finally tied the knot at Fenway Park in the season finale, it would be wise for the show to get back to basics. Last year's story­lines were bogged down with engagement issues and wedding plans. Writers would be wise to leave the soap opera element out of it and give the rest of the strong cast a chance to shine. 
"The Practice" has shown great potential in the past and needs to return to its basics -unique trials and great guest stars. Look for series creator David E. Kelley to become more involved as he tries to keep "The Practice" afloat while saving the disaster that is FOX's "Ally McBeal." 
While FOX struggles with its lack of quality televi­sion, its Sunday night lineup remains the strong sell­ing point for the network. Returning for a 12th sea­son in November -the baseball playoffs make the debut particularly late -"The Simpsons" (8 p.m.) will continue its long-standing reign as one of the best television sitcoms ever. While little is known of the up-coming season, "The Simpsons'" non-stop on­slaught of quality television shows no signs of stop­ping. 
Many people feel. however, that the show has long­since past its prime and that the last few seasons have been mediocre. It may be true that recent episodes 
haven't become instant classics like some of the earlier seasons' shows. 
But if you watch a shameful attempt at comedy like ABC's "Two Guys and a Girl" and then return to "The Simpsons," you will have no doubt that the cal­iber of this show is still miles higher than the rest of telev­sion 's rorne<lic offerings. 
FOX managed to get "The X· files" to return in November (Sundays at 9 p.m.) This season, however, will be (somewhat) missing star David Duchovny (as Agent Fox Mulderl. !Juchovny will be in eleven episodes of this season's twenty two: the first two, the last six and another three in between. Agent Mulder's absern;e will mark a drastic change in the show's direction. 
Gillian Anderson returns as agent Dana Scully. Joining her is now cast member Hobnrt Patrick {the T-1000 from "Terminator 2"), who plays an agent named John Doggett. Doggett is searching for Muld(l!', who "disap­peared" (read: abducted by aliens) in last year's finale. Ile eventually becomes Scully's nnw partner, acting as tlrn skeptic to Scully's newfound belief'. 
. Asidn from Mulder's shocking dis­appearan cc in last year's fin al episode, Scully's revelation of her pregnancy is another issue that will hl~ dealt with (along with Tho Cigarette Smoking Man (William Davis) and his alleged "death"I. Series creator Chris Carter promises a (thankful) rnturn to the program's horror-based roots, shying away from the comedic and high-concept episodes that were all too fre­quent in last year's season. 
This will be a welcome change, as the past two seasons of the show have been mired in a lack of focus. ft's time for "X­Files" to go back to ' what made it great in the beginning. While the addition of a new partner for Scully is a risky move for the show {hard corn "X­Files" fans can be hard to please), it's a gamble that both Carter and FOX hope will pay off. 
Since "Survivor 2: The Australian Outback" won't be here until January, NBC's new fall lineup includes "Th enjoy CBS' two­Michael Richards Show," and "law week rerun of the original phenome­non opposite the Olympics. Also, be happy that the start of the new fall season will bring the merciful end to the disastrous "Big Brother." While it was an interesting concept in the beginning, the decision to pick without question the most annoying cast of losers possible shot this show down before it ever took off. 
There are many shows returning to the networks this year -some great, many not-so-good. However, these five -"West Wing," "Law & Order," "The Practice," "The Simpsons" and "The X-Files" -have proven to be consistent in the quality of their content. Keep an eye out for them and point that clicker their way when October comes around. It'll be worth it. 
Who will be next 'Survivor' of new fall programs? 
By MELISSA Ri\UCH 
Scene Wner 

Although the Olympics may have caused a slight delay, the new fall season of television is linally here. In addition to favorite returning shows, the networks are offering :i1 new programs to entice viewers to the couch every week. 
Amazingly enough, viewers will be without their reality TV f'or a time, as the rwxt snason of "Survivor" is not sclrndulcd to air until rrnxt 
year. Instead there will be many familiar faces on the tube, as numerous film and television stars including John Goodman, Michael Richards, Geena Davis, and Bette Midler, havn boen given llrnir own star­ring vPhicles. Viewnrs will also notice a trend towards shows aimed at older audiences, combating the WB's teen craze of recent years. 
What follows is a run down of tho new shows: their stars, their premise, and 



T E L I 0 N 

Wednesday, Sepr-:mber 20, 2000 page 15 
familiar favorites to win viewers' hearts 
their chance of survival. 
Sunday 

Only two networks. NBC and the WB. have scheduled new shows on Sundav, as ABC, CBS, and FOX already have strong lineups in place. NBC offers "Ed" (8 p.m. -9 p.m.), a drama focusing on a New York attornev who loses his job, ·leaves a chPating wifa, and moYes back to his quirky Mid-western hometown to open a bowling alley. The stars are relatively unknown, but the sentimental plot and eccentric 
characters could make it the next "Nor­thern Exp­osure. However. "Ed" will face tough competition from "Touched by an Angel" and "The Simpsons." 
At 9 p.m., the 
WB presents "Hype," an improvisation­al sketch com­
PHOTOS COURTESY OF NBCMV.COM edy show that est Wing," "Titans," "Cursed," "The is a cross between
Order," (left to right, clockwise). 
"MadTV" and "Whose Line Is It Anyway?" 
At 9:30 p.m., "Nikki" airs, showcasing one of the WB's many female pinup stars, Nikki Cox ("Unhappily Ever After"), as a Las Vega·s showgirl who marries a professional wrestler. Uh, no comment. 
Monday 
The prolific David Kelley ("The Practice," "Ally McBeal") has created yet another new show set in Bean Town. "Boston Public" (8 p.m.) Although set in a high school, the FOX show focuses on the teachers for a change. Consider it everything you never want­ed to know about your history teacher ... or worse, everything you never wanted to know about what your history and English teachers were doing togeth­er. 
If the teachers are just too much too handle, switch over to CBS at 8:30 p.m. and watch the funny ladies on "Yes, Dear," a sitcom about two sisters with differ­ent styles of raising their respective families. Although the show is supposed to be about the sis­ters, it is their husbands -funnymen Anthony Clark ("Boston Common") and Mike O'Mallev ("The Mike O'Malley Show") -who will likely steal the spotlight. 
lf'hard-nosed, gritty drama is what you're looking for, NBC offers "Deadline" at 9 p.m. Dick Wolf, cre­ator of "Law and Order," produces this show about a team of crack investigative reporters working at a fic­tional New York newspaper. Oliver Platt stars as their leader. determined to root out all of the crime and scandal in the Big Apple. 
Finally. UPN broadcasts "Girlfriends" at 9:30 p.rn.. a sitcom focusing on the friendship between four African American women. The show sounds like 
"Living Single," but unfortu­nately without Queen Latifah. 

Tuesday 

Mir:hael Richards, best known as the offbeat Kramer on "Seinfeld." returns to NBC with his own sitcom, "The I\Hchael 
Richards Show" (8 p.rn. -8:30 p.m.) He stars as a bumbling detective, a la Peter Sellers's "Pink Panther" character. Cnfortunately, early reviews have not been positive and word has U that Jerry himsdf gav<' the pilot a thumbs-down. 
Also on NBC is "I)~;" (9:30 
p.m. -10 p.m.), starring Uavid Alan Grier ("ln Living Color") as a secret service agent demoted to the posi­tion of guarding the first lady, played by Delta Hurke. 
Switching channels, view­ers will find Oscar winner Geena Davis on her own ABC sitcom, appropriately titled "Geena" (9:30 p:m. ­10 p.m.). She plays a career-oriented woman who marries a man with two children and must learn to be an instant-mom. Geena looks to be like the movie "Stepmom," but without tlrn dying ex-wife. 
Finally, rox offers an alternative to all these come­dies with James Cameron's "Dark Angel" (9 p.m.), a sci-fl drama about a girl who uses her special powers to save a post-apocalyptic world from military bad guys. With Cameron as producer, the cinematography and special effects will likely impress audiences, but it sounds like a "Buffy" rip-off, only without the cute clothes and witty dialogue. 
Wednesday 
Following the trend of film actors switching to the small screen, Bette Midler will star in her own CBS sitcom called "Bette" (8 p.m. -8:30p.m.). Midler plays herself, poking fun at the life of a Hollywood actress. Jennifer Grey tried this unsuccessfully on the short lived ABC sitcom "It's Like, You Know," but perhaps the Divine Miss M. can pull it off. 
After "Bette," CBS airs "Welcome to New York" 
(8:30 p.m. -9 p.m.) a sitcom produced by David Letterman's Worldwide Pants production company about an Indiana weatherman's transition to life in the Big Apple. 
Aaron Spelling brings to NBC his latest campy, night-time soap opera "Titans" (8 p.m. -9 p.m.). Like the SO's classic "Dallas," the show will center on the bed-hopping, backstabbing shenanigans of obscenely good looking and wealthy individuals. 
On FOX, John Goodman sheds his familiar image as Roseanne's husband, Dan Connor, to portray a gay father on "Normal, Ohio" (8:30 p.m. -9 p.m.). The show has suffered major production problems -hav­ing to recast and reshoot its pilot -but with a great lead-in from "Malcolm in the Middle," not to mention the established talent of Goodman, the show still has a chance of survival. 
Following "Normal" on FOX is "The $treet'' (9 p.m. -10 p.m.), a drama focusing on a group of young 
and attractive stock traders on Wall Street. TNT is offering a similar premise on its show "Bull," but my guess is nobody will watch either. 
Finally on Wednesday, ABC offers "Gideon's Crossing" (10 p.m. -11 p.m.), a drama star­ring Andre Braugher ("Homicide"} as an oncologist who uses unconventional methods to help patients when traditional treatments fail. With "Chicago Hope" off the air, and "ER" aging rapidly (not to mention missing George Clooney). Gideon can hopefully fill the hospital drama void. 
Thursday 
Steven Weber ("Wings'') returns to NBC in the coveted "Must See TV" time slot betwe1rn "Friends" and "Will & Grace." "Cursed" (8:30 µ.m. -9:30 µ.m.) is the story of an advertising oxecutiV('i who is literally "curslid" when a jilt­ed blind date puts a hex on him. As charming as Weber mav be, "CnrsPd" sounds like a one­joke show that could get old pretty fast. 
On the W8. "Gilmore Girls" (8 p.m. -9 p.m.) focuses on a 32-yrmr-old single mom trying to keep her 1 G-year-old daughter froni making the same mistakPs she did. Critirs havP applauded the show in early reviews. but it might be a little mature for the average \VB audience member search­ing for another "Dawson's Creek." 
Friday 
ABC has completely overhauled its youth-oriented T.G.I.F. lineup, opting for more adult-oriented comedies. As kids all over America 
wonder what happBned to Corey and Topanga, they will instead find a paranoid New Yorker who thinks everyone is out to get him on "The Trouble With Normal" (8 p.rn. -8:30 p.m.). Then at 9 p.rn., Gabriel Byne stars in "Madigan Men" as a newly single New York architect receiving dating tips from his wiser teenage son and widowed father. It's hard to imagine Byrne in a sitcom after his roles in "The Usual Suspects" and "End of Days," but perhaps there's a comic side to him we haven't. seen yPt. 
At 8 p.m. on CBS, the other 

"Wings'" brother, Tim Daly, stars in "The Fugitive." In case you missed the original series or the Oscar nominated film, CBS wants to make sure you know that Dr. Richard Kim9lP still did not kill his wife. Mykolti Williamson, "Forrest Gump's" Bubba, stars as the FBI man searching for the unfortunate hero. Following "The Fugitive" is "C.S.I," (9 p.m. -10 p.m.), a gritty crime-solving drama about forensic experts in Las Vegas. 
On FOX, Ethan Embry ("Can't Hardly Wait") stars as a computer genius solving unusual, cyber-related mysteries in "Freakylinks" (9 p.m. -9:30 p.m.). This show's clever gimmick is that it will be simultaneous­ly broadcast on the Internet (www.freakylinks.com). 
For those who always thought "Beverly Hills 90210" was really a comedy, the WB presents "Grosse Pointe" (8:30 p.m. -9 p.m.). The show offers a hilarious, behind-the-scenes spoof of a fictional nighttime soap. An interesting sidenote: one charac­ter reportedly bore such a close, mocking resem­blance to "90210" star Tori Spelling that she had to be rewritten under threat of a lawsnit. 
Saturday 

Receiving a Saturday night time slot usually means trouble for a new show, as it is the least watched TV night of the week. Only two new shows will be pre­miering, both on CBS. 
"That's Life" (8 p.m. -9 p.m.) focuses on Lydia De Lucca (played by Heather Paige Kent), a 30-some­thing New Jersey girl who decides to go back to col­lege after dumping her fiance. Later Saturday night on "The District" (10 p.m. -11 p.m.}, everyone's favorite "Coach," Craig T. Nelson (not Bob Davie!) returns to television as the new police commissioner cracking down on corruption in the nation's capital. 
Most of the new fall series will premiere in early October. All show times above are given in EST, but local listings should be 
checked. 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wedncdsday, September 20, 2000 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Stein hands in stellar performance in Royals win 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 
After missing the first half of the :,;eason, Blake Stein is mak­ing up for lost time 

The Kansas City Royals right­hander called his performance in Tuesday night's 5-1 win over Anaheim one of his strongest ever. 
"That's the best command I've had of all three pitches in my entirf' career," he said. 

"l was throwing fastballs for strikes, breaking balls for strikes and r.hangeups for strikes -and pretty much doing it in whatever rount I wanted to." he :;aid. 
Stein 17-4) was sidelined from April through June by a broken right forearm. He's 6-1 in his last 10 starts. 
Stein gave up three hits and strur,k out a season-high eight in eight innings. He walked three batters in the first three innings but only one more after that, and lowered his ERA from 5.24 to 4.89. 
Mike Sweeney extended a team record with his 136th HBI and closed within two of the 200-hit plateau. Sweeney, Joe Randa and Carlos Beltran hit RBI singles in a three-run third inning for Kansas City, which avoided dropping lo a season­worst 13 games under .500. 
Sweeney scored his 100th run on Randa's single. Beltran added an RBI single in the eighth off reliever Lou Pote for a 5-1 lead. 
Jorge Fabregas made it 4-1 in the seventh when he singled and sr,ored on a wild pitch by starter Ramon Ortiz. 
"We scrapped and scraped," Royals manager Tony Muser. "We didn't do it dramatically, but we got some big hits in key situations." 
Ortiz (6-6) gave up seven hits and four runs in seven innings. He struck out five and walked three. 
Stein didn't give up a hit until Garrett Anderson homered with one out in the fourth to cut Kansas Citv's lead to 3-1. 

"That was ·actually a good pitch, an inside fastball," said Fabregas. the Royals catcher. "Anderson just did a good job of turning on it." 
The only other hits against Stein came in the fifth, when Benji Gil's line drive ticked off the glove of leaping second baseman Carlos Febles. and in the seventh, when left fielder Mark Quinn just missed a slid­ing catch on a soft liner from pinch-hitter Orlando Palmciro. 
"We didn't hit the ball real well, but I think you have to tip your hat to Stein," Angels man­ager Mike Scioscia said. "He pitched a terrific ballgame, particularly later in the game when ho started using his off­s peed pitches behind in the count. He kept us off-stridP." 
Sweeney is trying to become the fifth Kansas City player to record 200 hits in a season. Teammate Johnny Damon has already passed that mark with 
201: the Royals have never had two players do it in the same season. 
Mariners 5, Devil Rays 2 
Mike Cameron homered, tripled and drove in two runs as the Seattle Mariners won their seventh straight game Tuesday night, beating the Tampa Bay Devil Rays. 
The Devil Rays lost their ninth in a row, the longest skid in the AL this season. 
Seattle began the day with a 2 1/2-game lead in the AL West over Oakland, which played a doubleheader at Baltimore. The Mariners matched their longest winning streak of the year. John Halama (12-91 allowed two runs on five hits in 6 2-3 innings, stopping his three-game losing streak. Jose Paniagua pitched the last 2 1-3 innings to earn his fifth save in eight opportunities. 
Cameron went 3-for-3 with 
two walks. He tripled to drive in a run off Travis Harper (0-2) in the third inning and hit his 18th homer off Tony Fiore in the seventh for a 4-2 lead. 
John Olerud also had two RBIs for Seattle. He homered off Harper -hitting No. 13 in the second inning for his sec­ond homer in three davs after going 169 at-bats with~ut one -and added a HBI single off Doug Creek in the eighth. 
Alex Rodriguez drove in the Mariners' other run with a fifth-inning single. 
Seattle also won seven straight from June 20-27. The Mariners have bounced back from their first losing month in four years (11-17 in August) tn win five ::;traight series and get off tn a 13-5 start in September. 
Tampa Bay's nine-game slide matches Kansas City's AL-high losing streak from June 30-July 
13. The Devil Rays have been outscored 70-17 during the streak and have lost 15 of 17 games in SAptember after going 43-40 the previous three months. 
In losses to Boston, Toronto and Kansas City this month. Halama allowed 12 runs and 24 hits in 13 2-3 innings. The punchless Devil Rays never solved the left-hander, who won for just the third time in his last 10 starts -a stretch that includes four losses and three no-decisions. 
Tampa Bay's weakest hitters, Miguel Cairo and Randy Winn. did the most damage against Halama. Cairo drove in the Devil Rays' first run with a third-inning sacrifice Dy and Winn hit his first homer to trim the Mariners' lead to 3-2 in the fifth. 
Harper, making his third major league start, allowed three runs on four hits, walked five and struck out two in six innings. He started because Cory Lidie left the Devil Rays on Monday to be with his wife for the birth of their first child. 
Marlins 3, Expos 1 

Ryan Dempster isn't comfort­able with comparisons to other pitchers. 
Dempster took a shutout into the ninth inning and Preston Wilson hit his 29th homer, leading the Florida Marlins over the Montreal Expos Tuesday night. 
"I remember (Dempster) hav­ing one bad game," Expos manager Felipe Alou said. "It was maybe the first time we saw him. Ever since then he's been really tough on us, and 1 imagine everybody else. He reminds me of a young Curt Schilling, tb at's what he is ­and what he will be. a big pitcher." 
Dempster {13-10) allowed five hits in 8 1-3 innings, struck out eight to raise his season total to 199, and walked none. 
"I don't want to be compared to anyone," Dempster said. "I just want to be Hyan Dempster. It was a battle tonight, only three runs scored in the game." 
Andy Tracy homered leading off the ninth and Antonio Alfonseca relieved with one out, finishing for his major league-leading 42nd save in 46 chances. 
"I guess he got a little tired," Alou said. "And they've got a guy with over 40 saves, too." 
Wilson's solo drive in the third off Mike Thurman (4-7) was Florida's team-record 151st homer, one more than the Marlins hit in 1996. 
Luis Castillo, who hadn't stolen a base in 12 previous games, swiped three bases to tie Chuck Carr's team record of 58 steals, set in 1993. 
"When Castillo gets on, he puts a whole different twist on a ballgame," Thurman said. "I feel like I've worked on speed­ing up my delivery out of the stretch, but I'm still not fast enough for Castillo." 
The Marlins won f'or just the second time in seven games, and fourth time in 14. Montreal's Geoff Blum and Jose Vidro each had two hits, including Vidro's career-high 46th double. 
Thurman struck out a career­high eight, allowing three runs. seven hits and three walks in seven innings. Castillo singled in the first, stole second and scored on Kevin Millar's HBI double. 
Castillo got his second straight inf'iAld single in the third, his major league-leading 58th infield hit, stole second and third, then scornd on catcher Brian Schneider's throwing error. 
"I think Castillo's stealing third base determined the fate of the game," Alou said. 
Wilson followed one out later with a homer to left. 
White Sox 6, Tigers 2 

Sean Lowe pitched five shutout innings and Chris Singleton hit a two-run homer Tuesday night, leading the Chicago White Sox over the Detroit Tigers. 
Chicago's cut its magic num­ber for clinching the AL Central title to seven over ser,ond-plar,e Cleveland, which lost 7 -4 to Boston. 
Lowe (4-1). who didn't get a decision in three previous starts this year, allowed three hits, struck out four and walked two, leaving with a 6-0 lead. 
Steve Sparks (6-6) needed 70 pitches to get through 3 1-3 innings and gave up six runs ­four earned ...:.. and 10 hits. The knuckleballer is 0-3 in four starts since winning six straight. 
Frank Thomas was 3-for-4 as Chicago broke out of a slump with 13 hits. The White Sox hit just .217 while winning just three of their previous eight games and were 9-for-72 (.125) in losing their previous two. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 

The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issutng refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
VICTORY TKTS 2 ND/USC Tix+ Aifrare Need afterschool care for two boys 
LOST & FOUND  BUY-SELL •TRADE ND FOOTBALL  GOTO alumni.nd. edu/-ndc_stax  WANTED  (9&12) in our home, flexible days, ·must have car. Call Kim or Matt  NOTICES  
232-0964  Bloom  255-3472,  1-5104.  
LOST ND-PU WEEKEND ..  OUR  www.victorytickets.com  FOR RENT  EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP­ rnbloom@nd.edu.  SKYDIVE!!  
PURDUE FLAG WAS LOST IN  MENT CENTER PAID & VOLUN­ Training Students for 35 Years  
THE  PARKING  LOT  ON  THE  BUY/SELL  B&B lodging in alumni home for ND  TEER  OPPORTUNITIES  Earn  WINTER BREAK/SPRING BREAK  1 Hour North of South Bend  .  
SOUTH SIDE OF EDISON ROAD.  ND TICKETS  games.  (219)  243-2628  or  money and build resume experi­ Ski & Beach trips on sale now!  GREAT LAKES SKYDIVERS, INC.  
THE 6 FT. X 10 FT. FLAG WAS  273-3911  garyb@mvillage.com  ence while interacting with delightful  www.sunchase.com or call 1-800­ 1-800-351-6617  
HANO SEWN SY MY WIFE. NO  young  children.  The  Early  SUNCHASE TODAY!  
QUESTIONS ASKED. PLEASE  ND FOOTBALL  ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE  Childhood Development Centers at  
DROP OFF AT THE OBSERVER  TIX WANTED  AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS  Saint  Mary's College  and  the  Looking for 10 enterprising students  FOR SALE  
OFFICE BASEMENT OF SOUTH  A M.  . 232-2378  http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/  University  ot  Notre  Dame  are  for part time computer work.  Earn  
DINING HALL  P.M.... 288-2726  email:mmmrentals@aol.com  accepting applications from college  up to $4,000/mo. 1-888-304-0414  92 Dodge Spirit 4 cyl  ...  auto ...  
THANK YOU VERY MUCH  232-2595  students tor part time employment  Lv. Msg.  cruise low mileage ... top condition  .  
ND FOOTBALL  positions. AtND, the two openings  246-9784  
TIX FOR SALE  That  Pretty  Place.  Bed  and  are for TTh 7:30-8;30 a.m. and TTh  Christian family in need of upbeat  
TICKETS  AM. . 232-2378 P.M.... 288-2726  Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms  11 :15 a.m. • 1 :30 p.m. At SMC. the opening is for F 12:30-1 :30 p.m. If  caregiver for 18-mo. Old boy in our home near campus. Flex. Hours &  PERSONAL  
WANTED  with  private  baths,  $80-$115,  you are  interested in applying,  great pay. Call Sharyl at 237-0911.  
ND FOOTBALL TKTS  BUY/SELL N.O.  Middlebury, 30 mites from campus.  please contact Kari Alford. Program  WANT TO BRING YOUR HORSE  
289-9280  FOOTBALL TIX  Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418­ Director at ECDC-SMC,  at 284­ Help!  TO SCHOOL? SAGEBRUSH STA•  
HOME & AWAY.  9487  4694. or Thayer Kramer. Program  Staffer needs to rent condo/guest  BLES IS THE PLACE. JUST 25  
ATTENTION:  (219) 289-8048  Director at SCDC-ND, al 631-3344,  house/room in  Pasedena,  CA.  MINUTES FROM NOTRE DAME.  
Paying $50. 00  NO STUDENT  I have 5 bedrooms for rent in my  for more information and an appli­ General area for New Year's holi­ INDOOR RIDING ARENA LIGHT­ 
per ticket for  CONVERSION TIX NEEDED  nicely-decorated private home for  cation.  The  Early  Childhood  day period (12-27 to 1-2)  ED OUTDOOR ARENA SECURED  
last 3 home games  Football weekends; less than 2  Development Centers are also look­ My son is marching in the Rose  TACK ROOM FLEXIBLE RIDING  
!No student conversions  MSU vs. ND football tickets  miles north of stadium, continental  ing for volunteers who enjoy young  Bowl Parade! Would consider host•  HOURS CLEAN SAFE ENVIRON­ 
wanted!  bought and sold  brkf~t included. Many happy repeat  children. If you would be interested  ing your family for the usc2001  MENT FAMILY OWNED  
(219)289-8048  (219) 289·8048  customers! Call Kim 277-8340.  in spending 2 hours a week reading  game, tickets included, ND fans  SAGEBRUSH STABLES  
children's books, building with  only!  BOARDING LESSONS HORSE­ 
SELLING  Dad needs 2 tix to  2 BR, 2nd fir. Apt. 525/mo. Along  blocks, and singing songs with chil­ Please email tdatnd@aol.com or  BACK RIDING  
ND FOOTBALL TKTS  Stanford game'  St. Joe River Incl. Water/Sec.  dren, contact ECDC-ND at 631­ call 259-7544, as for Tina.  55251 SAGE Rd.  
251-1570  Ckrosey@mindspring.com  Syst.rTrash 288-2654 or 288-2788  3344 or ECDC-SMC at 284-4693.  Thanks  219-232-3361  

Wednesday, September 20, 2000 The Observer . OLY1vlPIC SPORTS page 17 
TENNIS 
Turango wins straight sets in debut to advance 
strong here. mostly from my
Associated Press 
teammates," Davenport said. 
"Obviously, we would like to 
SYDNEY. Australia sweep the medals. We think we 
Jeff Tarango won his Olympic have a good chance to do debut at age 31 to assure the that." lJ.S tennis t.eam of having at Tenth-seeded Russian Elena least one player in the serond Dementif'va. a semifinalist at round of men's singles. the U.S. Open earlier this 
Tarango beat 17-year-old month, was eliminated by wild­wildcard Diego Camacho of card Miroslava Vavrinec of Bolivia 6-0. 6-1 on Wednesday Switzerland 6-1, 6-1. In men's !Tuesday night EDT) play. No. 7 Tim Henman of 
"It was a tough match emo­England lost to Karol Kucera of tionally for me," Tarango said. Slovakia 6-3. 6-2. "It's been a long time coming. Tarango became the oldest me getting to play this type of man to rumpete for the United match. The first six or seven States in Olympic tennis since games I felt like I was swinging Titanic survivor Hichard Norris as hard as I could and the ball Williams, who played in the was hardly going anywhere." 1924 Games at age 32. 
Two Americans, Todd Martin Williams was no relation to the and Vinre Spadea. lost first­Rirhard Williams who is Venus' round matches Tuesday. The father. other U.S. 1rntrant. in men ·s sin­Despite early jitters, Tarango glPs, Mirhael Chang, played had little trouble with young later Wednesday. Camacho, who weighs just 136 
Top-seeded· Lindsay pounds and has no professional Davenport. the 1996 gold ranking. medalist in women's singles. "He's just not strong enough won her opening match against or ready for this level yet," Paolo Suarez of Argentina. 6-2. Tarango said. "But in the 6-2. That made the U.S. women future he could be a good play­3-0, with No. 2·seeded Venus er." 
Williams and No. 3 Monica Tarango swept the first 10 Seles winning Tuesday. games and completed the victo­"The rompetition is very ry in 49 minutes. 
SWIMMING 

Heyns falters in preliminaries 
"I felt more like a champion enjoy the ready room. enjoy
Associated Press 

after that experience than any the crowd, enjoy my fellow 
other gold medal or world competitors and what swim­
SYDNEY, Australia record has ever given me." ming offers you," she said. "So 
Penny lleyns. who set a she said. often we're so focused on the 
remarkable l O world breast­"It was the toughest thing gold medal or the world 
stroke records in a two-month ever. pressure-wise and records or our personal swims 
span last year, couldn't main­everything, to go out there in that ~c miss out on everything 
tain her momentum in the the 100 and still try to fight for else. 
Olympic pool. the gold. After the semis, I Heyns swam in the same 
Heyns won't get a chance to thought. 'There's no way.' I'm preliminary heat as Agnes 
defend her 1996 gold medal just proud inside for the fact I Kovacs of Hungary, who broke 
after finishing 20th in the 200-could get up and give it every­Heyns' Olympic record from 
meter breaststroke prelimi­thing I had." Atlanta. Ileyns lost to Megan 
naries Wednesday (Tuesday Heyns' career likely is over. Quann in the 100 breaststroke 
night EDT). She swam 2 min­having ended in the same final. But she left an indelible 
utes. 30.17 seconds -about 6 Olympic pool where she was impression on the 16-year-old 
1/2 seconds off her 1999 world so impressive at last year's American. 
record -and didn't even Pan Pacific championships. "She has pushed me so 
make the semis. She set five world records in hard," Quann said. "When I 
"I feel a real peace about it," five consecutive races, some­swim in practice, it's her I see 
the 25-ycar-old South African thing no other swimmer has in my mind. I just keep seeing 
said. "You never know how flver done. But Heyns never her world record time." 
you're going to handle set­returned to that form this Heyns will leave Sydney with 
backs or disappointment until year. her world marks in the breast­
you get there. and it's a pretty •·we altered my workouts at strokes intact. They were part 
neat experience." times and it reallv made me of that 10-records-in-two­
Heyns won golds in the 100 tired inside and·I still feel months streak last year. 
and 200 breaststrokes at the tired," said Heyns, who want­"I think it'll be hard for any­
Atlanta Olympics. becoming a ed to retire in 1998 before fol­one to ever do that." she said. 
hero in her homeland. She lowing her coach to train in "I feel at peace about my 
was the first South African in Canada. career. I feel like I've done 
44 years to win an Olympic The satisfaction she felt everything I wanted to do and 
medal after decades of isola­Monday had Heyns consider­way more than I ever expect-
d ..

tion because of apartheid. ing skipping the 200 breast­e . 
She came to Sydney as the stroke altogether, but she Heyns may go into mission­
favorite in the breaststroke decided to soak up the ary work as a way to define 
events. She'll most cherish the Olympic atmosphere one more her life by something more 
bronze medal she won in the time. than medals and world 
100 Monday. "I wanted to go out there, records. 

Undergraduates as Management Consultants 
Presentation for Undergraduates, all majors welcome. to be held 
Thursday, September 21. 2000 6:00-B:00 pm LaFortune Student Center Sorin and Dooley Rooms 
Casual attire Food and drink vvill be served 
For more information please contact Colleen Grember colleen_grember@mckinsey.com 


page 18 The Observer . OLYMPIC SPORTS Wednesday, September 20, 2000 
GYMNASTICS 
Americans fall just short of podium with fourth-place finish 

Associated Press 
SYDI\JhY. Australia 

Tlw six sprit1•-sizf'd J\nwricans WPrP sitting as light ,ts pi,urn hys Dll thP PdgP of tlw ar<'Irn llom· tonight. tdl'µathically will­ing a misstep hy thn ChinPsn or Hussian tPams that were still ,·ompPting. 
Tlw llnit<•d Stat1's gymnasts had do1w all tlwv could. 1\/'LPr finishing off tlwi,: routines with a spirilt!d 1·1Tort in Llw womP11's Olympic 1,·am tina!, lhn competi­tion !'or Lhn dPf,,nding gold nwdalists was ovnr. 1\11 thev had !nil was thr. hop<' f'or an op;ming that would uslwr them onto th11 podium for a bronzH nwdal ­tlw p<'rl'Pct rurr. l'or tlw tnam's dysfunnional stale. 
But as soon as th!' ChinPsP. ri•vnah•d a slPl'l-bPlted focus on th11 vault. thP moment the Hussian Ye!Pna Zamolo<ltchikova blew llw tip of' lrnr finger like a six-shootPr to µunctuatc her spcr.tac:ular !loor roul111c. the J\m,~rican optimism was slowly nudged aside by tho rC'ality of an undnsirable fourth­place finish.The USA Gymnastics plan had officially failed. 
To prevent the plunge of the United States women's program. to stop the embarra'ising der,ay of a team just four years removed from gold in Atlanta. Bela Karolyi was pulled out of retirement last year by the USA Gymnastics president. Bob Colarossi. to whip up a medal. Hut tonight. while the dominant Homanians, easy winners with 
154.608 points. were being draped with gold in the Super Dome, while the Russians (154.4031 touched their silver medallions and the Chinese 
(154.008) cherished their bronze reward. the United States team members were venting their frustrations back­stage. 
They were just 1.075 points behind the Chinese at 152.933, but that was the difference between harmony and discord among the Americans. That was the difference between celebrat­ing Karolyi's impact as national team coordinator and railing against it. 
"Bela should not have had so 
• 

~­
0 
~ 
0 0 
''.. ~~·· 
Last give--away by your "buds" at the Alumni-Senior Club this Wed. night. Don't miss out on your chance to win free sponsored merchandise by your favorite girls. Open 9 .. 2am Wed.--Sat. 
much control," said Jamie Dantzschcr. who scored a 9.712 on the lloor exercise. 
"The personal coad1es were given no credit. lie gets so much n-Nlit when we dn things right. but {wciryom' rlsc g<'ts blamed when things go wrong.'' 
On Sunday night. after the United Stales plar.e<l a disap­pointing-sixth in the qualifying meet. Karolyi questioned thr tnam's desire,. l3ound to his seat in the stands berause ol' USA Cymnastics rules preventing noncoachcs of the athletes on the floor. Karolvi was unable to stalk the floor its he has in tho past Thi' blustery immigrant from Hornania couldn't bearhug the gymnasts or pound positivH vibes into their psyches; he couldn't shake their miniature shoulders or inspire them f'ace­to-facc. If he was on Lhc lloor Sunday night. Im said hA wouldn't have tolerated tho !lat denwanor of the tr,arn. 
"Tonight. tlwy had much bPt· lcr attitude, morf) strength," said Karolyi. who watd1o<J the tnam pick up their perfor­mances in every event and show more unity as they rooted each other on. "You could see it, it was like, 'Yes, now, we're ready.'" 
So who receives the credit for the mood improvement? Was it Karolyi's prefinals speech to the team? Was it the reserved approach of Coach Kelli Hill? Tonight, she wore the same con­servative cloak as always, but afterward Hill vehemently took issue with Karolyi's criticism. 
"It·s not in my personality to be like Bela," Hill said. "It's not that I'm upset, but after I heard the things he said following the first night, I asked him if he wanted to be out there; and he said. 'No.' So there you go." 
This wasn't the way the plan was supposed to unfold. And the flaw in the blueprint was appar­ent: Colarossi should have either given total control to Karolyi or left him enjoying his retirement. Instead of bringing the team together, Karolyi's overbearing presence only splintered it. 
"To be a great motivator, you have to connect with the ath­letes," said Steve Rybacki, the assistant United States coach. 
Clarity Consulting, Inc. 
Looking for a career in a small but nationally recognized technology consulting firm? 
Clarity Consulting, Inc., with offices in downtown Chicago, specializes in 
building high-profile web sites and a-business systems for clients ranging 
from small startups to Fortune 50 companies. Our consultants participate 
in full-lifecycle projects and are experienced in strategic planning, 
requirements analysis, technical design, custom application development 
and project management. 
+ Clarity has developed a reputation for building robust, scalable web sites and e-business systems. 
• 
Clarity is a Microsoft Solution Provider Partner and has a close working relationship with many of the Microsoft product groups. 

• 
Clarity consultants regularly speak at premier technical conferences around the country and have articles published in national trade publications 


. Clarity consultants have diverse educational and technical backgrounds, including Computer Science, Engineering, Business, and liberal Arts. 
Clarity will be discussing career opportunities in an on-campus 
presentation. If you want an exciting career that offers continuous 
challenges and a great future, mark our presentation on your calendar. 
Visit www.clarltycon,com for more information. 
Date: Thursday, September 21st Time: 7PM-9PM Place: Morris Inn, Notre Dame Room 
,.Refreshments will be served 
~,.CLARITY 
~,CONSULTl'.\JG 


by scoring a 9. 7 in thr. team's best event of the night: the uneven bars. After the team scraped by on the treacherous balance beam -with no daz­zling scores, but no disastrous falls. either -the Americans ended their night on the floor exercise. 
"We had hope," said Kristin Maloney. who scored a 9.737 on the floor, and was part of a great last effort by the United States. "We knew we were still alive. Then, we had to watch and wait." 
"There were a number of girls on this team that he didn't make a connection with." 
One of Rybacki's gymnasts, Dantzscher. was Exhibit 1. She resented the treatment she received from Karolyi after she rolled her ankle last week. Tonight, Dantzscher said she had been ignored by Karolyi, who openly criticized her for being inconsistent in qualifying. 
"It's so not fair," Dantzscher said. "I wasn't treated as a per­son." 
Some of the gymnasts sup­
ported Karolyi, at least to an extent. Two of the remaining members of the Magnificent Seven -Amy Chow and Dominique Dawes were in Atlanta to feel the power of Karolyi's persuasiveness up close on the floor. Chow and Dawes praised Karolyi for being a motivator, but Dawes won­dered if his faith in her had waned over the years. 
If so, she wanted to prove him wrong in her final competition. Dawes helped give the United States a chance to medal tonight 

Wednesday, September 20, 2000 The Observer . OLYMPIC SPORTS page 19 
WEIGHTLIFTING 
IOC punishes competitors for illegal drug use 
Associated Press 
SYDNEY. Australia 

A Bulgarian weightlifter was stripped of his silver medal and a hammer thrower from BPlarus was kicked out of the Sydney Olympics in lhe first positive doping cases of the games. 
. The International Olympic Cummitlee said Wednesday (Tuesday night EDT) that it had taken away the silver in the 56-kilogram (12 3-pound) weightlifting class from Ivan 
L~l~u: Nll)) Strulhrll~l'..\~ L~l11l~e ll-U~1Uttlluv OJu~J~ 
'I 
i 


... 
t 
A nu:ss.1:.:1.: fwm l'ILLAl{S 1\·ith Akolwl & Drug EJu,,1ti11n >l I La Fortune Sru,k·nr C,·11tc·r Uni,·,·r~it\" uf ;-..;t1rr1.: D,1mi: 
(219) 6, 1-7970 

.Bragging rights. 
•:-·Tho Coflegiato Olympic Modal Raco is onl Follow the tatty with the GE Co0oge Modal 
Ivanov. who tested positive for furosemide, a diuretic. 
Ivanov, a gold medalist at the 1992 Barcelona Olympics and former four-time world champion, kissed his barbell after he had clinched the medal Saturday, the first full day of competition. 
The other banned athlete was Vadim Devyatovsky, a hammer thrower from Belarus, who tested positive for components of the banned steroid nandrolone in an out­of-competition sample on Sept. 12 in the athletes' village. the IOC said. 
Diuretics are used to flush fluid from an athlete's body to reduce weight. but also can be used to mask the presence of other performance-enhancing drugs. Nandrolonc builds mus­cle and helps athletes recover faster in training. 
These were the first athletes banned as a result of tests conducted during the games. Several others had been banned as a result of pre­games tests. 
IOC medical commission rhairman Prince Alexandre de Merode said the expulsions were ordered on the basis of positive results of the "A" samples. In the past, no sanc­tions were taken until after the backup "B" sample was tested. 
The Bulgarian and Belarussian teams have both asked for the "B" samples to be analyzed. 
IOC director general Francois Carrard said Ivanov had already left the Olympic village. Devyatosvsky had been scheduled to start competing Saturday. 
With Ivanov stripped of the 
weightlifting silver, the stand­
ings were revised. The origi­
nal third-place finisher, Wu 
Wenxiong of China, moved up 
to take tho silver. while 
China's Zhang Xiangxiang 
was elevated from fourth 
place to the bronze. 

Carrard said officials were 
considering arranging a new 
medal ceremony. 

Ivanov. 29, was the Olympic 
champion at 114 1/2 pounds 
in 1992 in Barcelona. He won 
gold at the world champi­
onships in 1989, '90, '91 and 
'93. 

Devyatovsky, 2 3, finished 
second in the hammer at the 
junior world championships in 
1996. This season, he has 
improved his perfor.mance 
from 251 feet-10 1/2 inches to 
266-11. 

The IOC tests were the first 
drug positives from the games 
themselves but onlv the latest 
in a slew of doping cases 
announced in Sydney, where 
more drug tests will be con­
ducted than ever before. 

De Merode said 13 athletes 
have been suspended for fail­
ing tests prior and during the 
games so far. 

On Tuesday night, 
Alexander Bagach of Ukraine, 
the 1999 world indoor shot 
put champion and 1996 
lccyclcThelbscrwcr. 
Olympic bronze medalist, was suspended by international track officials for testing posi­tive for steroids for a third time. 

Simon Kemboi, a member of the Kenyan 1,600-meter relay team, also was suspended for testing positive for steroids. 
Neither will be allowed to compete in Sydney. 
The ruling council of the International Amateur Athletic Federation announced those suspensions after an eight­hour meeting. 
The World Anti-Doping Agency, a new international arm of Olympic sports designed to conduct uniform out-of-competition testing, also reported a positive steroid test to Nigerian 800­meter runner Dupe Osime. 

She was among 45 Nigerian athletes initially chosen for the country's provisional Olympic team but was not among the 30 brought to Sydney. 
Weightlifting has been filled with pre-games cases. The International Weightlifting Federation kicked out the seven-member Romanian team Sunday because three lifters -including two on the Olympic team -had failed drug tests this year. 
But the federation lifted the ban on the five "clean" lifters the next day after the Romanian Olympic Committee agreed to pay a $50,000 fine. Such a waiver is included in the IWF's rules. 
The decision led to wide­
spread confusion, with the roe 

medical director declaring at 
one point that Romania 
couldn't buy its way back. 

Later, after a frantic round of 
phone calls and meetings. the 
reinstatement was accepted. 

WADA tests have found at 
least nine suspected positives 
out of 20 "elevated" results 
since last April. 

. . Track8f', onty on NElCOJympics~.com . 
'.'.·\f 
.. /t{ \ 


-page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 20, 2000 
VOLLEYBALL 
Meyers steps into leading roll for Belles on court 

FOOTBALL HEAVEN DAY 
AT B,W-3 
Come Watch NOTRE DAME vs. Michigan State! 
Lots of Prizes Including a Gas Grill, 3 Pair of Notre Dame Tickets! $.25 Wings during the game! ~~wASSSSSAPP'' CONTEST! WING EATING CONTEST! 
• • • ¦ ¦ ¦-D •• 11 ... •• ··• Ii ... ••••••.• ~ ........... -:.· .r ........ *If:,· •.•.•~.'; •. .r .~·'.,I·-·""' ... _..,_...__,''.a•".1. ',.. .,...._.,_ ...;ta:,.......-~•;-.· I/ ,t~•-\ I , ,,...... C: ......-. ~; :.-....•• =,: ¦·'4····; .... . t 
-
By CECITA OLEK 
Sports Writer 
Angda Meyers has come a long way since she began ropying her sisters' partic­ipation in vollPylrnll in fifth grade. 
"I had two older sisters who playnd, so I would follow them around and was always the litllP tag-aloni.{." shn said. 
Now a junior at Saint Mary's, Meyers is a long way from the days she used to look up lo her sisters. I.Aading a young Bellns Learn hungry for wins. co-captuin Meyers now finds the younger members or thP. team looking up to hP.r. Meyers has made it a person­al priority to guide the younger mPmbrrs of the team. 
"This season, I just want to b1• a leadrr on thP rourt. g11t PVeryonp going, and really be therP for tht' younger girls," Meyers said. 
Struggling to break out of the 0-9 rut thn tr.am l'inds thr.mselves in at thn begin­ning ol' the season. as co­raptain. it's critical for Meynrs to keep a positive outlook. ThP 0-9 starl, while tough on paper. isn't a true reflection of the team. MnvNs said. 
"We am very young this year. but wp're lParning to play as a team." Meyers said. "Therp's a lot of heart and desire. Our attitudes are what an~ going to get us by," 
Leading on and off the court. Meyers specialties lie as an outside hitter and in defense, leading the Belles defensive core. 
"Angela is Division I caliber on defr.nse," said coach Julie Schror.d1n-Biek. "She digs everything. I have officials throwing out compliments about her at our games. Her digs are just unbelievable." 
S£rnior co-captain Victoria Butcko believt1s that Meyers' presence and leadership on tho team keeps the team motivatPd. 
"Every team has a spark and she's the spark in our team," Butcko said. "We count on her so much." 
The coach thinks so, too. 
"Angela is a godsend on this team," Schroeder-Biek said. "She is our glue. I've only r.oachPd her one year, but I feel very honored to have inherited hPr." 
Moy1!rs r,r,hoes thn senti­ment about her coach. 
"Sim is the best coach I've r.ver had. I've never wanted to wjn more for a coach than I do for her." 
Meyers said lhat some of thP most enjoyable moments of her season are the long bus ridr.s to away games that provid1! the opportunity to get to know the girls on her team. 
"I always want to win. but I play bncause I like being on the court and playing with the girls," Meyers continued. "It's a really nice way to get away from school pressures." 

DOROTHY CARDER/The Observer 

Defender Angela Meyers hits the ball over the net in Saint Mary's loss to Kalamazoo. As co-cap­tain of the 2000 squad, the junior has become a role model for younger players. 
Wednesday, September 20, 2000 The Observer . OLYMPIC SPORTS page 21 ­
ROWING 
U.S. Men's 8 team fails to live up to expectations 
Associated Press 
PENRITH. Australia 

Things aren't going so well for the U.S. men's eight crew that was supposed to revive an American gold-medal tradition. 
Although the three-time defending world champions won a qualifying heat Wednesday (Tuesday night EDTl to advance to Sunday's finals, they did so by a minis­cule .02 of a second. Th<'y were second in a first-round race Monday. 
"The speed they're doing now isn't what they were doing a month ago." coach Mike Teti said. "Something's wrong." 
"It's a little bit of a rhythm thing," crew member Porter C()llins said. "Today came down to pulling -a street fight. W c 've got to be a little smarter next time." 
The women's eight won ils heat and the women's quadru­ple sculls finished second in another. sending both to the 'finals. A second-place finish for lhe men's lightweight double sculls advanced it to a semifi­nal on Friday. 
The United States, the only country to qualify in all 14 events, has vet to lose a boat through two ·rounds of qualify­ing. 
The men's eight came to Sydney favored Lo end a 36­year Olympic championship drought a)ld armed with advice and inspiration from their golden predecessors of 1964. The wait for another victorv has been especially long for a country that won 11 of the first, 14 Olympic titles, including eight straight from 1920-56. 
ATTENTION OFF CAMPUS STUDENTS 

Interested in becoming off-campus senator? 
Call Judicial Council 631-4556 for more information by 5:00 Thursday, September 21. 
Now, there's the chance the men's eight could be shut out of a medal for the third straight time, which has never happened. 
"We have some things to fig­ure out." said Teti. who won a bronze medal on the 1988 squad, the last U.S. medal win­ner. "You have to admire them for their effort, but we're defi­nitely not moving the boat like we need to to be an Olympic medalist." 
The women's eight was proud of how they bounced back from a second-place fin­ish in their qualifying heat 
Monday. 

"It was actually a big differ­ence today," said Linda Miller of San Di.ego. "We approached the race a lot more aggressive­ly. Our goal was to really attack the first 1,000 and con­trol the race, and that's what we did. We're ready for Sunday." 
The men 

"It's a little bit ofa rhythm
have until oars. It was 
then to work thing. Today came down to mostly reliv­out their pulling -a streetfight. ing the glory 
kinks. days.
We've got to be a little
They've "If you're 
already smarter next time." an elemen­tried minor tary school adjustments basketball
Porter Collins 
like moving player,
U.S. men's crew member
from the wouldn't it be 
some of them through the 

-
years and thought it would be fun to introduce them to his squad. the oldest of whom was born six months before the '64 team's golden day. 
One or two at a time, the seven living members of that crew plus their coach. Al Rosenberg, have passed on advice and their best wishes to the 2000 team. Rosenberg even climbed into the cox's seat and got on the water with them. 

...
"We have a ton of reverence for them." said coxswain Pete Cipollone. "We have some two­and three-time Olympians here who don't have any medals. so they recognizfl how difficu It it is to win. 
"When those guys came in. everyone was like, 'Wow! Impart your wisdom on us. Go ahead and tell us anything you want."' 
Littl.e of their talks had any­
thing to do 
with stroking 

athlete's vil­lage to a quieter. warmer hotel that's an hour closer to the venue. They're considering the major change of moving guys around the boat. 
Another option is calling some of their friends from '64 and seeing if they have any ideas. 
The relationship between the past and the present was Teti's idea. Having grown up in Upper Darby, Pa., riding out of the same club that spawned America's last Olympic cham­pion eight, Teti idolized that team. 
He has become friends with 
great to sit 
down with 
Michael 
Jordan and pick his brain a little bit? I think it was the same situation with these guys," Teti said. 
For Cipollone, it was the chance to ask the questions he never asked the late Bill Knecht, a '64 crew member who rowed at the same club in southern New Jersey as Cipollone's father. 
"As much as I always wanted to ask him what it was like, I was too much in awe of the guy to actually bring up the sub­ject," Cipollone said. "Now I want to dedicate my perfor­mance to Bill Knecht." 

Got Sports? Call 1-4543 
(Qpy SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center University of Notre Dame 
Phone 631-COPY 

Monday -Thursday: 7:30 am to Midnight Friday: 7:30 am to 7:00 pm Saturday: Noon to 6:00 pm• Sunday: Noon to Midnight 

Cus ·r-Friendly! Satisfaction Guaranteed! 

Mi .. 
}Y~re the Friendliest 
' 
1y Shop in Town! 
patronage 1s important to ,'us, here at The Copy Shop in the 
.......-. "!~•-... e Student Center. That's e never skimp on being ly. Our customer service ntatives will always greet 

.. d help you in a kind and us manner. We're happy to help you and offer you service with a genuine smile! 

High Volume Copying Color Copying, Scanning & Printing Binding /Tabs/ Laminating/ Fax Service Newsletters / Reports / Business Cards Complete Desktop Publishing Service 
FREE PICK-UP & DELIVERY! Quality Copies, Quickly!"' 
www.CopyShopND.com 
Copyright 2000 • All Rights Reserved• 09/00 


Wednesday, September 20, 2000
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
FOOTBALL 

Davie wants road win to build more team confidence 
By BRIAN BURKE

-
Sporn Writer 
Despite a 2-1 start that has surprised many of the skep­tics. head coach Bob Davie rralizes this weekend is an opportunity for the Notre Dame football team to prove fWen more when it travels to East Lansing to take on Michigan Statf1. 
"I think f1Vcrybody proba­bly sees the same thing," DaviP said. "We'd like to think we're an improved football team, but until wf' go win a game on the road, I don't know we can say that. I like a lot of things about this rootball team -we have to go win a game on the road." 
A win in Spartan country would be significant in more ways than one. 
Not onlv would the Irish brriak a load losing streak that goes back to iht> 1998 season. they would snap a thrPe-game losing streak to Michigan Stale. Davie did not hesitate to give the Spartans credit. but at the samP. time emphasized in the Tuesday press conference how his own players have matured since the previous meetings with MSU. 
"When we went up there in '98 (a 45-23 loss). it didn't matter if we played that game out here on that prac­tice field." Davie said. "Wh£rn you have u punt blocked early in the game. when you throw interceptions for touchdowns. and when you give up big plays on defense, it doesn't matter if that game's in your back yard 

when you play like that. more mature football team. need every ounce of maturity rated the most difficult by more is placed on the shoul­Once again, it's all about the but we'll find out." they can muster. the NCAA, and for the first ders of his young signal prnparation. I think we're a 
The Fighting Irish will Their schedule is currently time in Notre Dame history. caller. they will open the season "I give Purdue credit with four consecutive oppo­because they did line up and nents that wero all ranked at show one thing and then just the time of the contest. did really a good job with 
Among the most pressing our snap count of being in issues for Davie will be r.on­something different wben the taining State's monster tail­ball was snapped. So it is not back T.J. Duckett. like we were overly simple 
Only a sophomore, Duckett with Garv," Davie said. "But has aver-· also, I give aged an Michigan
"Playing out here in this
incredible State credit.
stadium is one thing. 

211 yards They have rushing and Playing up there is good coaches 
7.2 yards and good
another thing. That is 
per carry in players. They
why I am still in a
his fist two are going to 
games this wait-and-see attitude." do the same 
season. thing. We "1• think have got to 
Bob Davie

he's a guy have more 
you've Irish head coach latitude in got to stop what we are him before doing. We he gets started. When he have got to do some things gets heading north and south differently to allow us to and just takes it on a have a chance to run the straight line. he's a heck of a football." player," Davie said. "So it's The biggest factor, howev­trying to hit him. trying to er, might be avoiding the knock that ba11 out of there, type of avalanche early that" trying not to give up the big Notre Dame faced two years play, and stay in your gaps. I ago in East Lansing. think that's probably the sin­More than just scoring gle biggest thing. With him early. Davie wants to see his he's real patient. When he players playing together and finds the gap, he just hits it." mistake-free. 
On the other side of the Just as each of the first ball Davie addressed the three games has been a t<,st need to give second time for the Irish in one wav or starting quarterback Gary another. the trek lo Michigan Godsey more opportunities to State will tell much about move the ball. Last week how they handle a hostile Purdue was able to shut environment. down Notre Dame's backfield ''Playing out here in this because of a conservative stadium is one thing." Davie game plan. said. ''Playing up thero is 
Against Michigan State, another thing. Thal is why I 
Davie plans to diversify the am still in a wait-and-sef'­
offense in such a way that attitude." 

Wednesday, September 20, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Belles plan to get season back on track against Spartans 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
~porn, Wrirec 
The Saint Marv's soccer Belles arr looking to turn around a sea­so11 slowly slipping from their grips. 
Art1-\r three losses in a row and a tin at Olivet, the 2-3-1 Belles race tbe Spartans of Manchester today. and the players are bound ·and determined to r-ome away thr victors. 
"I just fe,,1 like we're on a roll," B1•lles sophomore Shawna Jiannoni said. "Wr.'re Lotally psy­drnd for thr. season." 
[t certainly doesn't hurt that tiw Bnlles shut out the Spartans 2-0 in 1999. their second year of varsity play. Nor docs it hurl Lhat 
the 
Spartans finished 3-15-1. to the Belles rer.ord of 9-6-2 overall. 
"I think us beating thPm last year is great and gives us an ndgr.." 
Jessirn Klink. Bellr1s co-ca.p­lain. said. "ThaL just makes us want to rlay harder because they'll be ,:urning out wanting to 
win." 
The Belles will have the advan­tagP of a full roster on their side for tlw first time th_is season. VAt1wans Heatlier Muth and /\drian Kirby return to the linA­up. and l'reshman Wendy Irvin PnlPrs a collPgiatP game for the first lime after suffering a stress fracture in preseason practice. 
On the Spartans· side, they are 1-5 under new coach Scott Stan. with losses to Ferris State, /\Ima. Br.the!. Adrian. and Rose­Hulman, picking up their only victory against Thomas More. Stan was a four-year starter at In the 8-1 defeat of Thomas senior Sarah Thomas finished assists. Sophomore goalie Laurie assists in MIM games. Trinity Christian College, and is More. sophomore Heather with two goals each. Rachel Vellncr recorded eight saves. "Definitely our goal is to be thr. school's all-time leading smr­Zawadski had a hat trick. while Stein, a junior on the Spartans. But Saint Mary's has talent more offensive," Klink said. "We er with 86 career goals. freshman Nichole Connent and finished with one goal and two enough to stretch its winning need to get our shots in." 
streak against Manchester to After blazing a trail to victory 

two. against Alma, Saint Mary's strug­Stephanie Artnak, the dynamic gled, both offensively and defen­
freshman midfielder, leads the sively, but since its loss to Olivet, 
Belles with two goals, both its confidence has returned full 
scored on penalty kicks. Artnak force. 
is tied for first place in the MIM "Once we get our shots in we'll 
for goals. Heather Muth sits at be more confident," Klink said. 
sixth in the MIM with her points "We've been very defensive late-
in the home opener against Iy." Instituto Latinoamericano de Doctrina y Estudios Socfales 
I LADES 
Alma. Freshman Kristin The Belles face Manchester in Greenwood is tied for third for a home match at 5 p.m. 
Informational Meeting: 
WHO can apply?

Wednesday, September 20 
7pmCSC Students applying to partici­pate in the Santiago, Chile program 
What is Ilades? 
J.-he Ilades Seminar enables students studying abroad in Chile to examine issues of poverty, 
development, social justice, liberation theology; and the global economy from a variety of 
different disciplines and perspectives. 
If you are interested in representing Notre 

When is Ilades offered? 
Dame at your high school over fall break or 
The Hades Seminar is only offered during the spring semester 
Christmas break, you will need to attend an information session on Tuesday, September 19 or Thursday, September 21 at
Where can you find out more about Ilades? 
7:00 pin in 155 DeBartolo. 
Contact Jessica Gray (igray@nd.edu) 
at the Center for Social Concerns 
631-3357 
Questions: E-mail Mike at Seeley.4@nd.edu 
or Mark Farrell, Assistant Rector in Stanford Hall (Farrell.16@nd.edu) Thank You! The Admissions Office 


--
.• 
•
' 
l 
l j 
' 
l 
l 
l• 
l 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 20, 2000 
right temporal lobe with the did not attend Notre remainder spread (diffused I Dame. "It wasn't look­
Clary 
throughout other parts of tho ing good for John. So 
brain. According to Kevin, the we saw it (the trip) as
continued from page 28 
lumor looks likes slrands of a goal to look forwarrl spaghetti. U is also very rare: to. We wanted to think
dnrc usf'd to idc~ntify potnntial 
"My doctor told me I'm only about the futureprohlnms. On Jan. 23. a Friday the fifth person he's ever knowi1 instead of dwelling on
night, .John went to Strong 
with this," John said. John's condition."
\fomorial ror an MHI. 
Starting in March, John had The day before the
The 1wxL day. KPvin dropped night weeks of' whole brain radi­game, Kevin and John
his f'amilv olf at tlrnir house aftnr ation for which he worn a cus­went to Davie's office.
onl' of .l<;hn's S<'VPnth grad<' bas­tomized plastil: hfllmet. Ifo went whore the coach gavekPtball gamPs. IIP wus 011 his to the hospital every day aftPr John an autograplrnd
way to pkk up a piPcP of fonc·p posl lo mount a satf'llitc dish al school and !"n('(!ivml 10 minutes football and a Notre a local hanh.,,·arl' shm~ wlrnn his ol' radiation per visit. After the Dame hat. 
first phasP of radiation, John "We ligun~d we'd be
rnr plwn!' rang. 
"My wil'l' u1l1Pd and said tlwn1 rpceivnd focused radiation in the out of' there in five right tnmporal lobe (abovci his minutos," Kevin said. 
was a mPssagP on our answpr­ing nmrhine from John's doc­right Pyel Tlrny wen• wrong. tor." Ki•vin l"t\callf~d. "1)1, said 
ln the middlH of' .June. John The day had just ttwn began 11 months of intc'l1-begun.
John has a brain tumor." 
sive chomotherapy. performed Davie then told the in six-week cycles. lie alternated Clarys to report to Gate 
Surviving the worst 

medications ·between pills and 1 of the Stadium wlwre Wh,in John came home that 
injections. a student manager
January aftprnoon. he was 
Due to the medicini>, John lost would give them a tourpr!'paring for an outing with his most of his hair and more than of the iiold, the locker Boy Scout troop. \1ornents later, 50 pounds. At his lowest, John room and the press
li"1s molhnr went upstairs and 
weighed only 89 pounds. box. After they finished, Jay went back to their hotel room. yet. But I'm back."told lrnr son the rwurologist had "I could run my fingers Sawvel, a graduate assistant The next afternoon, the Irish Now a sophomore at Pavilion
called. 
through my hair and a dump {of coach, invited the Clarys into a beat the Cardinals :~5-17 and 1ligh School, John works exten­"I was like, 'I want to go to this hair) would be in my hand," conference room where the improved to 3-1 on tho season. sively with other young cancerfunction,"', John said. "Then I 
John said. team was meeting. The score was secondary in patients at Strong Memorialsaid. 'Dang it. not now." 
"When we walked in, the the Clarvs' minds. 1lospi1.al and is one ol' the mostThat r1>action did not last entire room stood and gave John "Duri1ig the game, I looked at recognized people in Hochesl<~r.
Notre Dame offers reprieve
long. The Clarys (including 
a standing ovation," Kevin said. John and said. 'Look at every­"lle's my role model." Kevin
When John first arrived at
Emily, now 13) had a family "It was one of the morP emotion­body in the stadium,"' Kevin said, "My wife and I can't getStrong Hospital in .January, one
mnPting a fow hours later. 
al moments of our life." recall1. d. "How many people had down because ho has alwaysof Kevin's friends, Gary Hatton,"W1e all got together and said, 
The captains from the 1998 dinner with the team last done so well. We sen all the pno­contacted the Notre Dame foot­·wn·rn going to get through this 
team, Bobbie Howard. Kory night?" ple he inspires." 
ball office and requested
thing,"' John recalled. an :vtinor and Mike Rosenthal, pre­Kevin and John returned to Despite the joys of' helping oth­
Thny went to Strong imnwdi­autographc\d picture from Davie. more Notre and cele­
sented John with the Irish locker room ers, John has also felt the painDavie obliged and continued to
a tn ly and had surgery on 
Dame paraphernalia, including a brated with the team. They associated with cancer. One daystay in contact with the Clarys\1onday morning. Tim doctors 
jacket. stood on the side of the room, earlier this year, a letter wasover the next fow months.
rnducPd the sizo or tlw tumor by 
Following the meeting. Davie staring at the victors. sent to the Clary house, inform­Meanwhile, in the late sum­30 pernmt and .John spent two arranged for the Clarys to have Following his post-game news ing thorn that one of .John's
mer, Kevin found out he and hisdays in the lntcnsiw Carn unit. 
dinner with the team in the conference, Davie walked past friends had died from the dis­son would be coming to the Oct.
lie was rclnasr!d Friday, and a Joyce Center before that night's the reporters, TV cameras and ease.
3 game against Stanford. Soday latu, John attended his 
pep rally. sports information people. On "When she (his mom) told mo,Kevin wrote a letter to Davie and tnam's baskPtball game. 
"I was sitting at the table with his way to the locker room, I just broke down," John said.
"I was thP bench with 12 asked if he could stop by the
on the players and I was like, 'What Davie saw the Clarys, shook "lie was my best friend that I
staples in my lwad," John said. oflicc and say thank you for the the heck am I doing here, their hands and said goodbye. ever had. Ijust broke down." 
support Davie had showed dur­In latP February, the results of man?'," John said. "It was "Coach Davie asked me, 'When That reality has set in With theing his son's ordeal.
the biopsy came back. 
touching." are you coming back to Notre Clarys. They intend to remain"At that time, I thought thatTho ollicial name of the tumor 
They sat in the third row near Dame, Mr. Clary?'" Kevin focused on the present, enjoying may have been our last trip (totype is gliomatosis cernbri. Most the center at the pep rally then recalled. "And I said, 'As soon as every day. And whether theyNotre Dame),'' said Kevin, whoof thP tumor was located in tlw I can, coach. As soon as I can.' hear praise or warnings from With all the other stuff he's got the doctors regarding John's going on in his life, he still condition, they plan on staying remembered us. Just taking that calm and not letting their emo­extra minute for us was amaz­tions take over. ing." "It's a marathon," Kevin said. 
"It won't go away easily." A guardian angel Neither will tlrn Clarys' mnmo­
Dressed in blue cargo pants, a ries of Davif). · long-sleeve paisley shirt and a Besides fullilling their Notre well-worn white Notre Dame Damn dreams, Davie also hat with a navy blue brim, John planned another trip for the Clary sat at table live during last Clarys. During their meeting in Friday's football luncheon. lie October 1998, Davif) saw John ate the meal, conversed with his wearing a Grn,m Bay Packers father and listened to the speak­hat and asked if he had ever ers -including Davie, running bnen to Lambnau Field. backs coach Desmond The Clarys had just made Robinson, offensive lineman arrangements to attend a Mike Gandy and Daniel 'Hudy' Packers gamf) later that month. Ructtiger. When Davie found that out, he 
Following the lunch, John phoned his friend, cUJTPnt Creon immediately headed to the podi­Bay head coach Mike Sherman, um for Rudy's autograph. and told him that Kevin and 
"This is probably the best sou­John would be coming to venir I'll ever bring home," John Wisconsin. said. So, thanks to Davie, John lived 
Thirty-two months after being another fantasy. Before the diagnosed, John's tumor is now game, Packers' quarterback stable. Brett Favre and tight end Mark 
In January, he was hospital­Chmura gav(~ John an NFI. foot­iwd after suffering nearly 50 ball on the field. seizures a day. But with new Then, aftor the ganrn, John medication, John averages four met defensive end Heggie White or live seizures a day (which last at a reception. around one minute each), but As the Irish left thn Basilica on he does not lose consciousness. Saturday morning, tlw Clarys 
tr he has a seizurn whil<) walk­simply shook Davie's hand. ing or st.anding, ,John will fall to There w11ro no nlaborat1\ din­the ground and start convulsing. ners, conversations or meetings To protect him from any dam­with the fourth-vnar head coach age. John wears a black foam this weekend. · "karate" helmf)l wlwn standing. In fact, Kevin is not oven sure 
John currently has an MHI if Davie remembers his namn. administered every six months But he could earn less. and takes six to eight anti­"There aro people around us seizure pills each morning and who are guardian angels," Kevin f)vcning. said. "And Coach Davie lits into 
Rut he doesn't mind. that category. Ile may not real­
'Tm back," said John. who ize it, but that afternoon we 
currently weighs 13.'i pounds. spent with him and the team 
"My strongth isn't all the way was unforgettable." 


Wednesday, September 20, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
they cover for us really well," Apple said. "lf one of !hem get 
Freshmen make immediate impact 
Soccer 
beat, there is always another cine 
continued from page 28 
Camprllone passrd the free kirk over the Irish defense tu John Sr.haller, who headed the ball past ldsh goalke·eper Greg Tait to pull thP Vikings to within one. 
"That was frustrating," Apple saic.l or the lone goal. "We talked about it b(\fore the game ... our number 011(~ goal tonight was a shutout. One set play and one lack of' concentration on our part and a mom,mt of forgetting what wn need to do on defense and 
· they grt in and get a goal." 
But that was thA last time 
Cleveland State had a scoring 
opportunity. 
"Our dPfonse played a good ganrn overall." said senior r:o­captain Stephen Maio. "But we rnadn a couple of mrmtnl lapses and that's how they scored. We _just !~ist our l'ocus for that one play. 
"Thos(' bal:k !'our guys -Greg 
Martin. Stephl,n Maio, Conner 
1.aHosP, and Andy fiorstner ­coming. I wasn't too concerned except for that one set play." 

The Irish outshot the Vikings 17-4.. Sophomore Erich Braun led the Irish offensive attack with four shots. 
"He's a huge part of our attack," said Apple. 
\VhC'n Braun wasn't in the game. the Irish appeared disor­ganized and didn't communicate well. 
"We were a bit casual at timAs, and that has to be worked on next game," said Apple. 
Braun almost scored his first goal of the season in the 79th minute. The talented sophomore fired a shot past Kryger that appeared headed for the net, but Cleveland State defender Ole Christian Haugen kicked tlrn ball away just inches before it entered the goal. 
The Irish host l3ig East foe Seton Hall next on Friday night in their second game of' a five­game homestand. Game time is 
7:30 p.m. 
c:. 

"Fighting Irish Special" 
Sunday-Monday-Tuesday-Wednesday 5:00 -7:00 PM 
LAR6E CHEESE PIZZA 
$S.55 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
271-1177 271-7272 
Monday-Thursday 11 am -1 am 
Friday-Saturday 11 am -3 am 
Sunday Noon -1 am 

•TIie most popular fl on cam.p.ui••· 
Freshman Justin Oetter didn't want to ride the pine when he started his colle­giate soccer career. 
He wanted to be an impact player from the start. 
"I don't like to come in and say 'Oh, well, I am a freshman, I shouldn't play,"' he said. "I wanted to mah an impact right away. Me and Coach talked during rer.ruit.ing and he said I could contributr, right away. That's what I wanted to do. I wanted to go some­where I could play and not sit my whole freshman year." 
The Parade All-American from White Lake, Mich. wasted no time in making his presence known. 
Starting his fifth game of the season Tuesday night, the 6-foot-1 midfielder scored the game-winner in Notre Dame's 2-1 victory against Cleveland State. 
His first collegiate goal 

came off a great give-and­
go with fellow freshman 
Chad Riley. 
"I got the ball with my 
back to thA goal," Riley 

said. "I saw him running so 
I just touched it to him and 
hr) finished it." 
Hiley's assist gavA him 
four points for the year ... 
good for second on the 
team. 

Riley and Detter am just 
two of the six freshmen 
playing big roles for the 
Irish early in the season. 

"They are very good play­
ers. That's why we brought 
them here and we are very 
happy with them." Irish 
head coach Chris Apple 
said. "They're all have 
extensive national team 

experience. We knew they 
were going to be impact 
players right away." 

Tuesday night. Cleveland 
State felt the Irish fresh-men's impact. 


Four freshmen started the game for the Irish and five saw significant playing time. 
On offense, in the midfield 
and on defense, the Irish 
freshmen were constantly 
making big plays. 
Greg Martin started for 
the sixth time on an Irish 
defense that has shut out 
three teams and held the 
Vikings to just three shots. 
Martin also contributed to 
the Irish offense with two 
shots, 

While Martin has been solid on defense. the biggest freshman impact has been on offense. In addition to Detter's goal, the freshmen played a role in the first goal as well. 
On the first goal. Detter broke free 30 yards out and bounced a shot of the Cleveland State kAeper. Riley collected the rebound, dribbled to his left and was fouled hard in the box before he could shoot. Senior Griffin Howard buried the ensuing penalty shot to give the Irish a 1-0 lead. 
Freshman Kevin Richards almost picked up a point in his first start as well. Several times the speedy midfielder from Bermuda beat a defender to the ball but his crossing passes just missed their marks. 
Of all the talented fresh­

men. Richards might be the 
fastest. 

With 22:30 left in the first 
half, Richards raced past 

his defender toward a loose 
ball. 

Although the defender had 
two steps on him and a bet­
ter angle to the ball, 
Richards was a step ahead 
of his defender. He might 

have had a clear path to the 
goal had a Cleveland State 
player tackled him from 
behind to draw a foul. 
With every game, the 

freshmen grow more accus­
tomed to their roles and 
more comfortable with the 
collegiate game. 
Although Richards 
described the game as 

"faster and more physical." 
he seemed to fit into the 
flow of the game easily. 

'Eraggif"lg rights. 
:, The Coleglate Olympic Medal Aace is on! ' Folow ttle tally with the GE College Medal ;~~er, only Ol'l NIHX>MDPicS,com. 
.!It,\.:·,.,.. . . .. 
Detter said he is adjusting well to the collegiate game as well. 

"The first two games of ­the season I was playing the forward position but the last two games he moved me back to center midfield where I've been playing most of my life," he said. "So it feels good to get back in there." 
Watching the freshmen, it seems as though they have a sense for where each other are at all times. Detter, Richards and Riley are always just a touch pass away. 
This is not a coincidence, according to Riley. Most of the freshmen class have played together for a few years and are close friends. 
"The freshman class is really close," he said. "We do a lot of things together. We study together and I have class with almost every one of them. We've known each other since we were 15 or 16 through the Olympic development pro­gram." 
It's easy to forget, howev­er, that these talented play­ers are just 18-year-old kids. 
They still get fooled by older players and make mental mistakes. 
Martin _drew a thoughtless yellow card in the 31st minute. 
After a Cleveland State player slipped past him toward the net, Martin 
. fouled him to stop a break­away. Instead of dropping back on defense, however, Martin booted the ball up the field and drew a yellow card for delay of game. 
With every mistake, how­ever, the freshman learn. With every success. they gain confidence. Watching them succeed, learn and develop now is certainly exciting. In just a few years the Irish Class of 2004 · might lead the men's soccer team deeper into the NCAA tournament then ever before. 
The opinions in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The 0bseruer. 
Need to get the word out? 
Use The Observer's free online classifieds. 
Check them out at The Observer's website: http:!/observer. nd.edu 

-
000 SYDNEY 2000 000 

I -
page 26 Wednesday, September 20, 2000 
SWIMMING 

Medal-winner Krayzelburg sets 200-meter backstroke record 
Associated Press 
SYDNEY, Australia 
American Lenny Krayzelburg. who alrnady has one gold mt1da.l al Lh<' Sydnr.y Games, set an Olympic rncord in preliminaries of tlw 200-mf>tPr bar,kstroke. 
Krnyzrlburg. world record­hnldnr in the f'VP.nt. cruised through tlw wat<'r WP.dnesday (Tut>sday night EDTI in 1 minutf'. :i8 4-0 sn1·1rnds. That brokl' th(' rf\('Orcl or I:58.47 Sl't by Spain·s i'-'lurtin Lop11z-Zubero Pight yPars ago. 

Krayzl'lburg is an ovPrwht>lm­ing favoritP to win thP 200 after capturing gold i\londay in t!w 
l 00 backstrokP. Spotting his tinw on thP scornboard. hP gave a subtl(• grin and wave to tlw crowd. fol!owPd bv a thumbs-up to his coaC'h. 

.. , wasn't thinking about tlw rncord," Kraywlburg said. "I just wanll'd to swim a good mer.. 
Tlw nativr. of Ukraine, who b,,camP an Anwrican citizr.n in 1995. should face his toughest chafleng.-from 17-year-old Aaron PPirsol of Irvine. Calif. Ile was second-fastest in qualifying at 1:!i9. IO. advancing to the 16­man nvnning semifinals. win the sixth gold medal of her -beating Australia's !an Massimiliano Hosolino was first open. Whoever steps up is going 
"We bring out the best in par,h career, anchoring the 400 Thorpe in world record time -in 2:00.92. to win it." other." Krayzelburg said. freestyle relay to pass Bonnie and was favored in Wednesday Tom Wilkens of Middletown, Shockingly. llcyns won't get a 
Jenny Thompson, American's Blair for most golds by a U.S. night's 100 freestyle final after N.J., also advanced with the sev­r,hancc. The defending Olympic mnst-dr.r,oratr.d female gold woman. becoming the first man in histo­enth-fastest time, 2:02.21, after champion struggled home in medalist, qualified third in the But all of Thompson's gold ry to break 48 seconds in the watching the final of the 200 20th at 2:30.17 -about 6 1/2 I00 freestyl<' prelims, her final medals have come in relavs. Her semis. breaststroke on television the seconds off her 1999 world chance to win a gold of her own. only individual medal was silver "I lost my voice cheering for previous night. He failed to record -and didn't rwen make 
It won't be easy with Inge de in the 100 freestyle at the 1992 Pieter," De Bruijn said in a failed to make it out nf the pre­the semis. Bruijn in the field. The world Barcelona Games. raspy voice. "He did an awe­li ms in one of his strongest At age 25, she might retire record-holder was top qualifier De Bruijn is favored to win her some job." events. from swimming to enter mis­in the mnrning prelims at 54.77 second gold medal in Sydney. Torres, the 33-year-old former "f was a little mad at myself," sionary work. seconds. having set a world record of model and infomercial spokes­Wilkens said. "I should have "I considered not swimming 
Dara Torres of Beverly Hills, 53.80 in the 100 freestyle on woman, hopes to pick up the been in that race." the 200 because, in all honesty, I Calif., who alrnady has an indi­May 28. In all, she's the record third medal of her comeback. In Agnes Knvacs or Hungary set don't have legs right" now," vidual bronze medal at these holder in three Olympic events. addition to a bronze in the 100 an Olympic record in the Heyns said. "l didn't exper,t to go gamHs, was second-fastest at "It felt really good. Very nice butterfly, she was part of the women's 200 breaststroke pre­further. I wanted to go out there, 55.12, followed by Thompson's and smooth," De Bruijn said of U.S. team that set a world lims at 2:24.92, wiping out the enjoy the ready room, enjoy the 
55.22. her preliminary swim. "It's record in the 400 freestyle relay. mark of 2:25.41 set by South crowd, enjoy my fellow competi­
"It was fine for a morning going to be a very, very close "This is going to be one of the African Penny Heyns four years tors and what swimming offers swim," said Thompson, of race. I'm looking forward to it." toughest races," said Torres. ago. you." Dover, N.1-I. "I expert to be faster De Bruijn and countryman swimming in her record fourth Kristy Kowal of Heading, Pa .. The United States advanced to tonight (in the semis). I'm recov­Pieter van den Hoogenband are Olympics after leaving the sport was second-fastest (2:26.73) and the final of the women's 800 r.rnd from the 100 fly." two of the biggest stars in the for seven years. "A lot of girls Amanda Beard of Irvine, Calif., freestyle relay as top qualifier. 
Thompson was expected to be pool, quite an accomplishment are going 54 seconds." placed eighth in 2:27.83. Beard The team of Samantha de Bruijn's top challenger in for a tiny European nation best Tom Dolan of Arlington, Va .. won silver in the event as a 14-Arsenault, Julia Stowers, Kim Sunday's 100 butterfly. but known for sorcer and speedskat­followed up a world-record per­year-old at the Atlanta Games. Black and Diana Munz went t'adnd to tifth as the Dutch super­ing. formance in the 400 individual "It was easy, probably the eas­8:01.69. Australia was second at star blew awav the field. Van den lloogenband has a medley by qualifying ser,ond in iest 200 I've done this year," 8:03.26. setting up another 
Thi' 27-yea;-oJd American did gold in the men's 200 freestyle the 200 IM at 2:01.55. Italy's Kowal said. "This event is pretty Aussie-Yank showdown in the 

TRACK AND FIELD 

Hamstring injury sidelines Miller for I 00 meter sprint 
200 and the 400-rneter relay. "Last yea,; when I was she had a chance or running in Miller, who won the world· "It's been a diffjr.ult decision Sydney. championship in the 200 last
very successful in the
for me," Miller said. "I have "I know there's a possibility year after Jones droppt\d out SYDNEY. Australia three cvpnts, and so in making 100 and 200 meters at that Inger will not run,·• because of a bar.k injury, has Marion Jon<'s · quest for fivp, that decision, I didn't want to the world championships, Dennis said Tuesday night. been battling with Jonr~s since go Id rn 1• d a ls u L t h e Syd n e y jf~opardize my other events. Tho injury to Miller, a silver the two were in high school in
I did not ask the Lord,
(;,u11PS _just goL a lot easier. 'Trn hoping a l'ew more days medalist in tho 100 at the 1999 southern California a decade 
lniwr MillPr. spcond to .Jones will help me hPal and I'll be 'Why me?' So I'm not world championships, was the ago. in the 100 and 200 meters al able to run the 200 and the going tu ask 'Why me?' latest blow Lo a U.S. track team Miller ranks second in the Lim U.S. trials and considered relay." that had already lost two other world to Jones in the 100 and orw of Jonps' chief rivals in The first round or the 200 now. athletes with strong possibili­200, and had been considr.red both 1W1'nts, will miss the 100 will be Sept. 27. ties of earning medals in one of the biggrst roadblor,ks and is questionable for the rPst Miller said she has been Inger Miller Sydney. tn .Jones swe<'ping those of thn games because of an training:, but hasn 'L been able C.J. Hunter, world champion events.
U.S. sprinter

injury. to sprint hard. in the shot put and Jones' hus­"Last year when I was very 
Miller said Wednesday 'Tm disappointed that I am band, is out following arthro­successful in the 100 and 200 {Tu1isday ni){ht EDTI that she not following my plan, but I've little bit brighter fiff me." scopic knee surgery. Hegina meters at the world champi­strai1wd hPr left hamstring got to go with the flow," she Karen Dennis. head coach for Jacobs, among the favorites in onships, I did not ask the Lord. whilt' training S(•pt. 7. two days said. 'Tm still young and I've the U.S women ·s team, said the women's 1,JOO, h;td to 'Why me?' " she said. "So I'm befon• rnming to Sydney. She got othu chances. I think by Miller was seeking medical withdraw because of a rnspira­not going to ask 'Why me'?' said s!w plans to try to run the Wednesday. things will look a advice before deciding whether tory ailment. now." 

Wednesday, September 20, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
TYLERTOM KEELEY 

THINGS COULD BE WORSE
FOURTH AND INCHES 
WHATELY 

JORDAN, YOU'RE A AND THE TEXTBOOK,.. 
9USINES5 MAJOR I MEAN, l REALIZE WHAT ARE 'YOV DOING NO ONE IS SUPPOSED IN MY MIITH CLASS, TO KNOW WHAT THE 
MATRIX IS, BUT 


-
"LINEIIR AL6E8RA?I?' COME ONI 
BILL AMEND
Fox TROT 
CHECK '(OUR 
'foU HAVE 23,2q1 

WAS THAT "l'oU
WHAT?! You 

WELCOME, E-MAIL! 
NEW MESSAGES DELETING AREN'T GOING 

HAND-I HEARD TYP1NG PAIGE. CI-IECK ~oVR 
Fl?oM JASON, HEE 

Cl?AFTED ALL NlC:,HT?
ALL. To READ ANY 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Witch's laugh 68 59-Across 1 Prefix with 33 Question, part 2 player, in brief sailing 38 Rose's husband, 69 Devour, in a 
5 They're made of on Broadway way 
whole cloth 39 Nonpareil 10 Holiday music? 40 Study, and then DOWN 14 Toward the some 1 Home of 
windless side 41 Question, part 3 L'Express 15 Island 46 "Whoa, _!" 2 Overhead Sound 47 Cozy 3 Cover the gray 16 Blue Bonnet 48 Draft letters again 
product 49 "Vay!" 4 'The Boy Who 17 Drape holders 51 CNN's Rowland Cried Wolf' 18 Company once 56 End of the writer 
called Allegheny question 5 "Doonesbury" 19 Players wear 59 1986 World cartoonist masks for this Series site 6 "I understand," 20 Start of a silly 62 Indian head, facetiously 
question once? 7 Help during 23 Treeless tract 63 Indian head, hard times 24 Just enough to once 8 Shortens a 
wet the lips 64 Chicken sentence, maybe 25 Frowning 65 Pontificate 9 1973 Pacino 28 Coat with 66 Clearasil target blockbuster 
plaster, say 67 Emerald 10 Funny Bishop 11 Chalet site, perhaps
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 End of a series 
I R M A L o s E s 13 Pulitzer winner TOAD USURP Akins 
0 M O N A 1 21 French twist, e.g. ....._..s_,_T_. 22 On with 25 Mini, midi or maxi 26 1942 Preakness winner 27 ''The Silence of ~-=-i•.=.1.=.J.=.i.;::.i the Lambs" director 29 Yen 30 They may be 

G R 
' 
tossed back 0 T E ~"'+'-~ C A A 32 Multiple of XXXV D A R L.::.J..:..1.:.:.i.=. E L T 33 Bambi et al. 
34 Awards since 
1956 
35 Small brooks 36 Vociferate 37 Marvel 
superheroes 42 Poop out 43 Loads, as a 
plate 44 That the sun will rise in the East, 
e.g. 45 Terse pans 50 Antediluvian 

8/9/00 (No. 0809) 
52 Half of the Odd 57 Ersatz Couple 

58 Yahoo.com, e.g. 53 Dorothy, to Em 
59 Hit the slopes 54 Fashion's Karan 
60 Holiness 55 Put a stake in a the Pope pool 
61 It can be 56 **** review shocking 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 

Happy Birthday: Don't let obsta­
cles tum into frustrations. Do what 
you can and refuse to let anyone or 
anything stand in the way of your 
happiness. If you can realize what it is 
that you want out of life and move in 
a direction that will help you achieve 
your goals, you will find that every­
thing else will fall into place. This is 
not a year to say '1 can't," but instead 
to say '1 can" and "I will." Your num­
bers: 8, 17, 26, 30, 35, 44 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get involved in activities that will get you out of the house. You will be an em<r tional mess today if you let your loved ones make demands on you. 
00 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will find yourself doing more travel­ing than you expected. You can open doors through the connections you make en route. New avenues will lead to exciting adventures. 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Dou­ble-check your financial situation before you let money slip through your fingers. You have been too gen­erous with others and far too extrava­gant when it comes to entertainment 
000 

CANCER (June 21-July 221: Keep busy and you will accomplish much. Tears are likely if you take everything others say to heart. Your partner may say things that will set you off. Try not to be too demanding or clingy.
000 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Drastic alterations in your home are needed. Take a look at the situation and see what your budget can afford. You 
EUGENIA LAST 
need the change as much as the rest 
of the family. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 221: Your 
involvement in groups will be satisfy­
ing. Passionate interaction with your 
mate can be expected.. Pregnancy or 
greater interaction with children is 
apparent. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct 22): You will 
experience plenty of fuss and comm<r 
tion on the home front. In-laws may 
interfere with your plans. Don't let 
others put unrealistic demands on 
your family. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Friends may not be completely honest with you. Be careful not to let them put you in a compromising position. You must do things for your own family first 00000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
It's time to look out for your own interests. You will feel emotionally drained if you let someone you care about badger you about the way you do things. Don't let yourself get run­down. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Devote some time to the ones you love. Your mate will be sensitive to your moods. Try to be open and hon­est if you wish the day to move along smoothly. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 2()..Feb. 181: Be 
careful where you leave your wallet or personal belongings. Don't push your luck when dealing with officials or institutions. Minor mishaps will occur ifyou are careless. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Group endeavors should include the whole family. Your interest in unusual hobbies will attract new friends and lovers. Children will be hard to con­tain. Try to keep them busy with physical activities. 00000 

Birthday Baby: You will attract loyal friends throughout your life. Your abil­ity to mix your concerns and your goals puts you in the category of someone eager to help humanity. You will always look out for those less able, but you will never assist those looking for a free ride. 
(Need advice? Visit Eugenia on the Web at www.astroadvice.com or www.eugenialastcom.) 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester Name 
---------------------------·­Address-------------------­
City ________State ____ Zip______ 


Eyeing the Spartans 
After compiling a 2-1 record at home, the Irish take their game on the road Saturday when they take on the Spartans ofMichigan .S'late
PORTS 
in East Lansing. 
page 22 
O
THE 

BSERVER Wednesday, September 20, 2000 

Cancer victim finds strength in meeting with Davie 
By TIM CASEY 
Assist.lilt :;pons Ednor 
Amidsl the sea ol' gold. green and blu<' clad Irish fans sPatt•d in the south end­zont' on Saturday worn Kevin Clary and his 15-year old son. John. 
They arrived in South BPnd from Pavilion. I\' Y. on Friday morning. attend­ed the football luncheon that afternoon. hoard Hudy speak. visited the Grotto and the Basilica bef'orp the game, then sat down in seal.; 10 and 11 in Section 117. How 17. just prior to kickoff. 
Sounds like a typical football wenkend 
But unlikr. their counterparts. Kevin and .lohn did not really care ii' tlw Irish ran an isolation or a counter on second down. Or ii' Gary Godsey found an open rf'ceivrr. Or if Coarh Bob Davie inserted Clifford Jefferson into the game. 
Thev were conlcnt with just being then'.· 
'There are a lot or people in the stands who spP.nd the entire game criticizing somr\body," KPvin said. 'Tl! turn around and say 'stop.· There's morn tu it than that. They'll makf' a critical remark about Coai·h Davif' and I'm like 'l)o you know him?! lave you nrnt him'?"' 
Thi• Clarvs haw. And they'll nnver forget their experi­ence. 
Sickness strikes home 
John woke up early on May 16, 1997. th<> dav arter his 12th birthday. While getting'ready for school. the sixth grader foll to the ground at his home and start­Pd convulsing. 
Ile had a seizure. the first of his young life. 

The Clarvs were shocked and scared. So the fam.ily drove tn Genesee I lospital in Batavia, N.Y.. whern the doctors gave John anti-seizurf' medicine and adminis­tered a Ci\T scan. 
"It didn't show anything," Kevin said of the CAT scan. 
After the initial prognosis, the family made an appointment at Strong Memorial llospital in Hochester. The doctors performed several more exami­nations that wePk in May. inducting an EEG. But again they were unable to detect anv abnormalities. 
rive months later, Kevin and John came to South Bend for the Notre Dame­USC game. The year before. they had attended their first Irish game. a 20-17 loss to Air Poree. But this was different. arguably tho most famous rivalry in col­lege sport.,;. 
On Oct. 17. one day prior to the game, John and Kevin were shopping at a gro­cery store in South Bend. They were walking together, talking and laughing, preparing for the weekend. 
Then John disappeared. 
"I turned around and he was gone." Kevin said. "I went around the corner into a different aisle and he was on the lloor having another seiwre. I called my wife !Hhondal and told her. We didn't think too much of it." 
John suffered a third seizure later in October and had several more in November and December. 
Following the succession of mysterious seizures, Hhonda began researching epilepsy and read about an MRI proce­
see CLARY/page 24 


MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish battle Vikings to 2-1 non-conference win 
• 


ERNESTO LACAYO/The Observer Freshman Justin Detter out jumps a Cleveland defender Tuesday to head a ball in Notre Dame's 2-1 win. With the victory, the Irish improve to 3-2-1 on the season. 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Spom W ri rcr 

Freshman Chad Hiley had another strong performance for the Irish and Justin Detter scored the first goal of' his collegiate career as Notre Dame men's soc­cer team defeated Cleveland State 2-1. 
"We could have played better. but I'm satisfied with the result." Irish head coach Chris Apple said. 
With the non-conference win. the Irish improve to 3-2-1, while the Vikings fall to 1-4-1. 
From the beginning of the game. the Irish dominated play with their speed and quickness. but were consistently stymied by the strong wind. 
"The wind made a huge differ­ence," Hiley said. "In the first half, my passes were floating in the air, the balls coming to me wern just stopping in the air. In the second half. we had the wind and we were just running at pPo­ple." 
The Irish finally scored at 53 minutes in the second half. Justin Ratcliffe blasted a shot at Cleveland State goalkeeper James Kryger. who deflected the ball away towards the top or tlw penalty box. Riley raced to the ball and took two dribbles to his lert bP.f'orc a Viking defendPr tripped him. Senior Griffin Howard fired the ensuing prnalty kick past Kryger and into the left corner of the net. 
Notre Dame took advantage of a breakdown in the Viking defense to score its second goal only 1:28 later. Detter passed off to Riley, who quickly returned the ball back in to Detter. The freshman faked out a defender, dribbled once to his left, and blasted a shot to the left or Kryger to put Notre Dame up 2­
0. 

"I played the ball into Chad Riley, and he fed it back to me real quick,'' Detter said. "Some guys came up on me, so I just pushed it around him. I krww where the goal was and just shot it. Luckily, it went in." 
Cleveland Stato scored its only goal at 62:22. Aftnr Irish rlef'end­er Andreas Forstner was called for tripping, Viking Adam 
see SOCCER/page 25 
at Calvin College vs. Loyola Marymounr Cross Country s~ Thursday, 7:30 p.m. Thursday, 7 p.m. 
National Catholic Invite 

-SPORTS ~ 
Friday, 5 p.m. 

•
ATA 

vs. Manchester College ar ITA National Clay 
at Michigan State $,ltC Wednesday, 5 p.m. (ff"'1 Court, .~ Saturday, 3:30 p.m. 
'-1:.-.:.::i ~...,
Thursday-Sunday
GLANCE 









