

Be seduced 
Knowledge is power? 
Mollie critic Matt Nania retJiews ''The last 
Thursday
In this week's politicalJace-oJJ, the College 
Seduction," an interesting take on classic 
Democrats and College Republicans square off 
film noir. 
over educational issues. 
SEPTEMBER 28, 
Scene . page 18 
Viewpoint . page 15 
2000 
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Remembering Brionne Clary 
Friends celebrate 20-year­old cancer victim, former 
Welsh Hall resident 
By TIM LOGAN Senior Staff Writer 
Funny. 
Loyal. 
Resilient. 

This is how Brionne Clary's friends will remember the junior, who died last Wednesday of complications from leukemia. 
"She was an amazing person," said Kate Downen, who would have lived across from Clary this year in Welsh Family Hall. "Sometimes she could be crazy. off the wall. She was the most caring. deep-down wonderful person." 
Clary loved basketball. and she played on Welsh's inter­hall team and a Bookstore Basketball squad that reached the Final Four of last year's women's tournament. The Welsh team will frame her number 51 jersey and put it and a plaque in the dorm. said Katie Rak, a teammate of Clary. 

XXXIV NO. 28 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

SMC shirt draws protests, ban 
. Students say junior class shirt offensive to ND 
By AMY GREENE News Wmer 
The Board of Governance addressed the controversial shirts printed by the junior class at its weekly meeting 
h e I d I a s t night. 
T h e 

s h i r t portrays t w o y o u n g girls. one with an "ND" on h e r shirt, the other a French cross. and a young boy wearing an "ND." The young boy is kissing the girl wear­ing the French cross with "The Girl of Choice" written below. 
Board members attacked the shirt for potentially hurt­ing relations between the two campuses. 
''I am appalled by the shirt and work desperately hard to maintain good relations across the street," said Crissie Renner, student body president. "This represents everyone on this Board and I have gotten numerous phone calls about it. This brings us backwards from where we were going." 


"Whfm you put the 'ND' on the shirt, that was a direct attack," secretary Amanda Spica said. 
Notre ·Dame representative Suzanne Lohmeyer agreed, "J can see how it's 'cute,' but one thing can start the whole ball rolling. I do see it snowballing." 
Members questioned the stereotypes which the shirt seems to stregthen. 
"llow can we make certain judgments like that about ND women?" Kristy Sutorius asked. 
"A really good friend of mine goes to Notre Dame and if she wore the shirt and the situation were reversed, I'd be really hurt," said Autumn Palacz, senior class president. 
Controversy regarding the shirt has been escalating for the past three weeks. 
"Since day one I have been worried about complaints," said junior class president, Katy Robinson. "I can't imagine selling the shirts now and only see the situa­tion getting worse. I don't the student body and it's left want to go through with sell­to us to decide. If they don't ing the shirts. We're out like the shirt or the message, $1,300 and I honestly don't then don't buy it." 
know where  Other mem­ 
to go." Hobinson  "This brings us  bers argued that it was the  
said  she  backwards from  responsibilty of  
w a s unaware of  where we were  student repre­sentatives to  
the  final  going.  reject  ideas  
design  for  that  might  
the shirt, however. She said she  Crissie Renner student body president  seem offensive. "The prob­lem is you are  

disapproved of the shirt design and instructed the junior board not to print the shirts. 
"I told them to take the 'ND' off and the next thing I know, it's printed. It didn't get conveyed the way I wanted it to," she said. "I addressed the issue with the Junior Board and stood alone in removing the 'ND."' The opportunity to change the idea was offered and some agreed to compro­mise." 
Junior Liz Kocourek said the T-shirt idea came from the students and they should be left to decide if they want to buy the shirt or not. 
"You can't all agree on one idea," said Kocourek. "Our meetings are always open to 

appointed by 
members of your class," senior Molly Kahn said. "We are entrust­ed as student leaders with a special responsibility. I can see how it's 'cute,' but it is inappropriate." 
"I love Saint Mary's and by no means do I want to mini­mize the distance we've come," said junior vice pres­ident Erin Weldon. "Now we're making the issue pub­lic and it's only going to get worse." 
Student Activities approved the shirt because it did not go against the Mission Statement or endorse alcohol, drugs or sexism, board members said. Other board members 
see SHIRT/page 6 
HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 
STUDENT SENATE 

Resolution to address sex assault 
By LAURA ROMPF 
Assistant News Editor 
Last spring, many people on Notre Dame's campus showed concern over the issue of sexual assault and rape. 
The issue received attention in the campus media. and the University sponsored a sexual 
assault panel with  See Also  
rape survivors. Subsequently, the  "BOT report  
Student  Senate  focuses on  
passed a resolution at Wednesday  alcohol"  
night's meeting to  
create educational presentations in the  page6  
residence halls to  

provide information to students about the issue of sexual assault. 
"Through talking to several individ­uals, we learned that the assembly in Washington Hall is not the best way to hand!~ this issue," said Lewis senator Luciana Reali. "We believe a more personal setting would be more effec­tive." 
The committee on gender issues met with Jeff Shoup. director of 
see RESOLUTION/page 4 

Brionne Clary (right) enjoys a football game at Notre Dame Stadium with friends (from left) Kate
see CLARY/page# 
Stephan, Elisabeth Parker and Kate Downen. 
Thursday, September 28, 2000

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Picture perfect? 
A picture is worth a thousand words. 
But are they always the words we want tu 
say? The picture and words on the back of 
the T-shirt sponsored by the Class of 2002 
board said just about everything that Saint 
rvtary's women don't want 
to hear. 

Noreen Featuring a crude repro­Gillespie duction of the famous "II 
and 
Bacio". the shirt show­
Colleen
cased a young boy with a 
McCarthy

Notre Dame T-shirt kissing 
the check of a girl with a 
Managing
Saint Mary's emblem on 
Editor
her shirt while a forlorn 
and
Notre Dame-clad girl 

looked on. Underneath Associate 
were the words "Girl of News Editor 
Choice." 
Imagine the disgust of 
the student body. 

Fortunately, Board of Governance did the 
right thing and deserves to be commended for 
purchasing all of the T-shirts from the Class 
of 2002, keeping them from being sold. But 
once the words are spoken, it is hard to for­
get that some membnrs of the community 
l'ound this acceptable in the first place. 
Gender relations arc nothing to joke about at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. Over the past Lhrcc years since the infamous "Parasite" letter, Saint Mary's women have worked tirelessly to break down stereotypes and instill a sense of pride in students for what it means to be a Saint Mary's woman. llowever. we were reminded today how quickly all of that work could have been undone by the image and words on a piece of cloth. 
When we came to Saint Mary's, we made a choice. It wasn't the one ref1ected in the T­shirt; it was for a first class education, not a man. 
The T-shirt not only perpetuated a stereo­type of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women alike, it also trivialized the women who made the choice to come to Saint Mary's. In addi­tion, the other idea of "choice" represented in the T-shirt portrays the Saint Mary's women not as being chosen for their mind or as a whole person, but rather as a sexual object by the Notre Dame man. 
And it gets worse. 

Instead of trying to break down barriers to unite Saint Mary's and Notre Dame women, the T-shirt reinforced the supposed rivalry. We should reach out to the women of Notre Dame to unite on issues that arc of common concern to us as women. 
It is deplorable on the eve of the week that is supposed to celebrate our identity as Saint Mary's women that some women still have not discovered the meaning of that identity. 
We left "girlhood" behind long ago. It's lime for the Class of 2002 board to under­stand what it means to be a woman -a Saint Mary's woman. 
That's the picture that says the words we want lo hear. 
The views e:rpressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Jason Mcrarley Matt Nania Helena Payne Graphics Courtney Boyle Dana Mangnuson Spores Production 
Tim Casey Brian Kessler Viewpoint Lab Tech Pat Otlcwski Ernesto Lacayo 
rlic Qbscrm (USPS 599 2-4000) i• published Monday ,hrough Friday ,xccp1 during exam ,nd v•c1tion period,. The Observer is a member ofrhc Associa1cd Pres,. All rcproduc1ion rights arc res,rvcd. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
. Concert: Los Angeles  . Concert: "The Chamber  . Comedy: "Chicago City  . Mass: Black Catholic  
Guitar Quartet. 8 p.m.,  Music of Bach," 7:30 p.m ..  Limits," 8:30 p.m.,  Mass: Celebration of'  
Ilesburgh Library  llaggar College Center  O'Laughlin Mainstage at  Canonizations, 10 p.m.,  
Auditorium  . Film: "The Godfather  Moreau Center  Log Chapel  
. Lecture: "Quinceaneras  Trilogy," 8 p.m.,  . Festival: vVVFI's  . Concert: Ying Quartet,  
and the Hispanic Woman in  155 UeBartolo  Irishpalooza, bands and  2 p.m., Annenberg  
USA," 12:15 p.m., LeMans  . Film: :·neturn to Me," 8,  food, 5 p.m., North Quad  Auditorium of Snite  
Hall Stapleton Lounge  10:30 p.m., 101 Debartolo  Museum  

Compiled from U-Wire reports 

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Rental car service supplies rides at Stanford 
STANFORD. Calif. 
vers under 25, and 21 is generally 
Starting this fall. the Stanford the youngest age people can rent bookstore is offering rental car ser­cars. vices to minimize the inconvenience However. Enterprise will allow of' off-campus travel, particularly for rentals to students 18 and over if incoming freshmen. they provide a Stanford student rn, 
The Class of 2004 is the first lo proof of full insurance coverage and feel the effects of a policy instituted a credit card in their own name. jn the spring of 1999 that denies These criteria may still be difficult parking permits to all freshmen. to 1rn~et for some students. 
The university has taken measures "The insurance might be a prob­to make adequate alternative trans­lem for me," said senior Margaret portation available. one of which is Bruce. "But it still widens my a contract negotiated with options. I think it will be helpful Enterprise Rent-a-Car. one of the emic calendar. when friends and family visit me." nation's largest rental car services. More importantly, Enterprise will Dean of students Marc Wais calls 
Enterprise will offer Stanford stu­allow rentals to students between the program a '1bold and creative dents and faculty a 15 to 20 percent the ages of 18 and 21, an age group concept." discount off normal rental car rates, normally denied the privilege "I know of no other school in this as well as special promotional deals because of its high insurance risk. country that offers their students set up around the university's acad-Many agencies will not rent to dri-rental car services," said Wais. 
DUKE UNIVERSITY 
Gay community extends programs 
DURHAM, N.C. 

Duke's Center for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT) Life has begun implementing its five-year strategic plan, created last year, which calls for outreach to the campus and Durham communities. LGBT officials said they have already begun working toward their goals of creating education and awareness programs with Duke athletics and heterosexuals. "We're doing a fairly decent job (of reaching out], but of course we have a long way to go ... so Duke is a better place for everyone, not just the LGBT students," said center direc­tor Karen Krahulik. "We don't only serve undergradu­ates, graduate and professional students, but serve the sta!T and community." One of cornerstones of the cen­ter's outreach efforts is ''Safe on Campus," an initiative developed by LGBT officials to connect with other com­munities. The program, which identifies heterosexual supporters of the LGBT community, will include a series of training and orientation workshops where "allies" will learn how to relate to issues of LGBT life. 
CORNELL UNIVERSITY 
School deals with race, sex assault 
ITHACA, N.Y. 

Following news of a racially motivated sexual assault on a female Asian student early on the morning of Sept. 16, outraged members of the Cornell University community have begun speaking out. The assault took place after the victim was verbally harassed with a racial epithet directed at her from a passing vehicle. According to Randall Hausner, captain of' Cornell Police, the victim was not physically injured but was traumatized by the attack. Melissa llu, co-president of the Asian Pacific Americans for Action (APAA). said when she heard about the assault, she "initially felt fear. [An incident like this) makes you paranoid. An Asian woman tried to fight back, and look what hap­pened." Hu said the APAA, in conjunction with several other Asian student organizations, will hold a rally this Friday to "express the concerns of the Asian-American community." "We're trying to take this case as an example of a chain of" events that have been happening on campus," Hu said. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day So.1th Bmd Fol'.&Jelf£ 
!'<n.Jl'mt:rer !are:ast far ceytirre a:nliticnsarrlhigi t:a-q;:erat:ures 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 28. 
H L Thursday b 63 44 Friday b 69 51 Saturday b 69 53 

........... ........... ............

Sunday Q, 71 54 
C> 2000 Accuweather. Inc. COtU WARM STATIONAH'f Pr11uw-.: 
® © D D CTI D CJ D 
High Low Showers Rain T·•torrn• Flurrle• Snow lco Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
Monday b 73 53 
V..AMocut&dPnw. 
Atlanta 71 55 Detroit 69 39 Salt Lake City 71 51 Boston 53 39 Lexington 68 44 San Francisco 73 53 Chicago 66 51 Los Angeles 75 59 Seattle 62 53
Q,~,~q~Q (f ~ u 
Dallas 80 50 Miami 86 75 St Louis 73 53 
Showers T-srorms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Denver 71 46 New York 57 44 Wash DC 64 48 
Y,.t Assoeiatfld Pr&sr GraphicsNst 
Thursday, September 28, 2000 The Observer • NEWS page 3 


Vending machines accept ID cards 

By HELENA PAYNE 
News Writer 
The University started its newest project that could make carrying cash on campus unnecessary with the installation of new vending and laundry machines that take Domer Dollars. 
"The more people with Domer Dollars use the facilities. it'll be like sec­ond nature," said Dean Winter, operations manag­er or Food Services' vend­ing department. 
The new machines still take cash and coins. but the added !'nature is a place to use University ID cards for Domer Dollar purchases. 
"You swipe and the reader will shov, you what's in your Domer Dollar account." said Winter. 
Only Knott, McGlinn and St. Edward's residence halls havn the new machines, but by the end PETER RICHARDSONfrhe Observer of the semester 10 dorms With the swipe of their ID cards, students who receive Domer Dollars through will have them. said their student accounts have access to several vending and laundry machines 
on campus.
Winter. 
Originally. the vending department wanted to the washing and vending "It's kind of laborious, funded by Food Services," install the machines in one machines that take Domer and it's expensive so it'll said Tina Durski, card ser­female and one male resi­Dollars. After Zahm, the take a while," said vices manager of Food dence hall, Knott and vending department will Winters. Services. "To use Flex McGlinn. llowever the finish installations on both The vending and laundry Points to wash your socks vending department also West and Mod Quads machine project is one of probably doesn't go put new machines in St. because of the similar the University's attempts [together.]" Edward's, because they building construction to to "broaden the usage of Although the new vend­were already installing the dorms that currently have the card system," Winters ing machines have been dorm's first laundry room the new machines. said. running for only a week, and decided to make the The vending department The machines will not Winter said once students washing machines and will install machines in take Flex Points so stu­become aware of the dryers Domer Dollar other dorms after check­dents who want to use the Domer Dollar vending accessible as well. ing the costs at the end of machines must open machines, they will appre­
Winter said Zahm llall, the year. In January, the Domer Dollar accounts ciate the convenience. which will soon get its first department will make with Food Services. "I think it'll be a great laundry room, would be plans to install machines "Flex Points are part of a service once it gets going," the next dorm to receive in the rest of the dorms. meal plan and they're said Winter. 
Visit 'Ifie<OOse 
COME TO RN INFORMATION SESSION TUESDAY, OCTOBER 3 • 6:00PM Center for Social Concerns 
Take the 

URB~N PLUNOt... 
The tJrbu Plunge is a 41-bour immenion etperience inw U1ba11 commo!itics thrOllghouL lhe counlJ')'. S111dtn1S meet loc,I iodividu•ls, work witli ageacies, vo!Ulltm for panshe; and w11Dm Ille daily miro111Dftt of urban areas bi lbe Uu.iltd Swes. . Nwly fifty (SOI) US cities offering ibe plunge dming die wetk of Juuary 4-11, 2001. II JOU live oear acity -YOU c211 lake the Pmllll· , . R.egi51nlion fOIIIIS wl answcn to your questiOIS will be mihbi< 11 the info =n. 
q!ij·> • -. .}\<_, -.-<\ ,t:/ -::/-::::.--·::_' . 

NEWS ANALYSIS 

Bush, Kennedy dynasties draw some parallels 
By LAURA ROMPF 
Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame is not the only institution in America where legacy is important. In the 21st Century, legacy has played a large role in national politics. 
When George W. Bush earned the Republican nomi­nation for president, it was the fifth nomination for either president or vice president awarded to the Bush family in recent decades. 
These numbers have raised comparisons between the Bush's and another political dynasty of the 21st Century, the Kennedy family. 
"The Kennedys only got one nomination for president or vice president, where the Bushes now have five vice presidential and presidential nomi­nations," said David Shribman, political analyst for the Boston Globe. 
However, Shribman said the "Camelot enchant­ment" surrounding the Kennedys was greater than the Bushes. 
"There is less of a mystique with the Bushes but the Bushes have a lot of staying power," he said. 
As for staying power, George W. Bush is gover­nor of Texas and currently running for president. His father, George H. Bush, served as vice presi­dent for two terms and president for one term. 
His brother, Jeb, is governor of Florida and his nephew, George P. Bush, is a Republican activist trying to recruit the youth vote. 
During the 1960s and '70s, the Kennedy dynasty had a similar influence in American politics. Joseph Patrick Kennedy, Sr., served as ambas­sador to England and four of his nine children became politically involved. 
Joseph P. Kennedy, Jr., had political aspirations and his father dreamed he would become the first Irish Catholic President of the United States. 
However, on August 12, 1944, in England dur­ing World War II, his plane exploded, instantly killing him and his co-pilot. 
John F. Kennedy then took over the family's political aspirations and was eventually elected the 35th President of the United States. He did not complete his term because he was assassinated on Nov. 22, 1963. Robert Kennedy, the next Kennedy in line, began his path towards the presidency, but was shot while campaigning for the Democratic nomination in 1968. 
Today, Edward "Teddy" Kennedy is a powerful senator from Massachusetts since first being elected in 1962. Grandchildren of Joseph P . 


.--------------------------. Kennedy also play leading 
roles in the Democratic party. Much like Joe Kennedy

Notre Dame Film, Television, ·played an influential role in hisand Theatre presents sons' political lives, Shribman said George H. Bush has played an important role in his son's campaign.
oodnighl 
"I think he played a large role in the selection of Dick

<])£4denw.na 
Cheney [as vice president can­didate]. Cheney is very close to the former president and his



(Good Morning 
son," said Shribman. "The gov­ernor knows that any times he needs passionate. reliable


;)ufiet) 
advice with no sell' interests, he can call his father." 

by Anne-Marie MacDonald 
Shribman said Bush is not focused on removing himself
A comedy of 
from his father's shadow. 

alchemic proportions 
"It will be very difficult for Bush [to break away from 
being called his father's son). and he's not inclined to try to," he said. 
Directed by Wendy Arons 

Wednesday, Oct. 4 ...... 7:30 pm Thursday, Oct. 5 .......... 7:30 pm 
Regardless of the outcome in Friday, Oct. 6 .............. 7:30 pm Saturday, Oct. 7 .......... 7:30 pm 
November, like the Kennedys, Sunday, October 8 ...... 2:30 pm 
the Bushes have left their mark on American politics. "You won't be able to write a 
Playing at Washington Hall 

story about the 21st Century Reserved Seats $9 • Seniors $8 • Students $6 
without mentioning the 

Tickets are available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. 
Bushes, just as you could never 

For MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631-8128 
write a story about this centu­ry without· mentioning the Kennedy's," Shribman said. 

Thursday, September 28, 2000
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
about it a lot Ilcr friends said coming to Notre Dame gave
Clary 

her a chance to be remem­continued from page I bcmd for something else. "She wasn't that person," 
The dorm will also likely have 
a memorial Mass in her honor 
latN this year. and may plant a 
tree in hnr memory, 

Clary was sarcastic and swPnt at the same lime. 
"Shll had a rPally funny sr.nse of' humor," Dowrnm said. "She could say something obnoxious to you but it was complotr•ly in lovP and jest. She was just f'unny like that." 
And that sense or humor showed. During last year's Bookstore Basketball tourna­mPnt. Clary's team. five Welsh interhall players. came up against a team comprised or the other live 1.Velsh intcrhall players. The contcist got very competitive, and there was tension betwPnn the two teams. 
"Brionnc was the one to step in and say, 'come on you guys, we're frit1nds.'" Hak said. "She just had this personality whern, everyone started laughing. She pul~ on this goof'y grin and all of a sudden, they wnrc putty in her 
more

"If she was your
hands.'' difficult to 
While Clary loved friend, she was deal with. at basketball. she also always your friend. least for Hak. loved her friends. "We didn't And she was loyal. get to sec her 
Kate Stephan 
"If' she was your between the friend, she · was Notre Dame junior time that we 
always your friend," said Kate Stephan. who would have been Clary's neighbor this year. "You could always count on her. no matter what; always." 
Clary, from Tyler. Texas. had staved off leukemia once before, when she was in high school. But in August, just a week before she was to return to Notre Dame. the disease came back. No one at Notre Dame had known how serious the illness had been in high school, and Clary did not talk 
..r:. 
<J
·c: 
,:, N 

Stephan said. "She wasn't the person with the disease."' 
After Clary contracted leukemia for the second time, she fought it off for a month bcforn succumbing But even during that lime, only a few people knew about her illness. That was the way she wanted it. 
"So many people didn't know she was sick at all." said her roomatc Sarah Miller. "It wasn't anything she wanted broadcast." 
Through that time. Clary was, as usual. optimistic, hop­ing to return in January and making off-campus living plans for next year with her room­mates. 
"Slw would say, Tm going to try my hardest to get here. I don't know if it'll be next semester. but I'll be back,"' said Ellen Knarr. who also would have lived next door to Clary. 
But never seeing Clary sick 
made her 
death 
.c 0 
,I,! 

C: al ::,
:, 
<> 

~ CD 
.5 
CD

i :5 ::,
en :,







student
<U CD 
-e C a.
Q) 
"' 
! al 
ct; !!l 
,i
.2 
0 C ii1 
IQ 

E Airfares II) 
E "' 
0 CD 
-"" ,,:: "' 
en ,... 
C 8 Eu rail passes IQ 6 :, 
Q) s:: 
0
Cl 

~ 
.c 
"' 
~ 

0 r 
C More Than ~ 
u iii 
Q) 0 
:::,
100 Departure Cities r::r 
,I,! 
z 

s::: 
CJ)

·c: "' 
~ 
Q_ ro 0: 
C: CD
Study Abroad 
is "' 
:, CD n Cl 
:, 0 
C: 

Ill 
-c 

C ~
.9 

ec:•. 0 
~ 
O> <" 
.!!l c:...
i: 0 
Ji 0 student UnlV8rS8 ~ ::, 
:::,­II)
IT'S YOUR WORLD. EXPLORE IT 
:::,
0 

CD 
~ 
Cl)
r::r 
~ C 
"' E .a 
0
:.::; CD 
l/) 
~ 
<( 

studentuniverse.com 2: 
800.272.9676 
heard shP 
was sick and last week," she said. "And that was the hardest thing because we couldn't put a sick !'ace on Brionnc." 
Several of' her friends trav­eled to Texas for the funeral on Munday, and while there they got a glimpse of where their friend had come from. Clary's high school basketball team came to the service, wearing their red letter jackets. and her strong parents consoled their daughter's friends. 


LOW Tl 

PHOTO COURTESY OF SARAH MILLER 
Brianne Clary (second from right) spends time in a Welsh Hall dorm room with friends, from left, Sarah Miller, Elisabeth Parker, Kate Downen and Kate Stephan. 

"That was the amazing thing. they were comforting us," Downen said. 
I!er friends said the events of the last week have made them look at things a little different­ly. 
"It definitely puts things in perspective. People keep talk­ing about tests and classes and things like that. that doesn't really mean anything to me right now," Hak said. "My friends mean so much to me. It makes you think I should tell that person what they mean to 
me." 
Now Clary is gone. But her friends will remember her for a lot of things -her sense of humor. her love of basketball. her loyalty, her personality. 
"Iler 20 years arc incredi­ble," Stephan said. "She proba­bly lived her 20 years as full as anyone could live their life." 
Resolution 
continued from page l 
Hesidence Life, to create the program. 
"This year, we may just send letters to the residence halls ask­ing them to offer this typ1\ of' program. /\ couple of' halls have already held this type of meeting, but we want it to be universal starting as soon as possible.'' Hcali said. 
During the presentations. students would be informed about acquaintance rape, date rape drugs and how to counsel a friend who is a victim. 
"We want to inform students about University policies, so there is no confusion. If a student is assaulted in their dorm room. th,~y need to be aware they will nut get in trouble for parietals if' they report the crime," Heali said. 
The resolution passed unanimously. because most senators said the program is essential. 
"I think it is important for everyone to realize that this is not just a female issue.'' said Zahm Hall senator Hyan Becknr. "People don't like to think that this actually happens at Notre Dame, but it docs. Education is the most important thing we can do." 

Available at a record store near you I 




NATION 

Thursday, September 28, 2000 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Russians charge U.S. businessman: 
Hussian prosrcutors said Wednesday they have 11ffkially i:harg1•d U.S. businnssrnan 1-:clmond Pop(! with spying, clearing Lim way for a trial 11xpnctncl to begin next month. l'opl'. 54. has boPn held in l\loscow's I.Pi'ol'l.11vo prison sin('.P :\pril :i, wlrnn llussia's h'dPral S(1c11rity S(irvicP arrested him and said lw had ill!•gally bought plans for a high­sp<wd LOrpeclo. "As thn rnsult of' llw investiga­tion, !'opl1 has lWt'll inrriminuled in rspi­onagc," said a stat<'mPnt by tlw l'rnsccutor­GP!l('.ral's Officn. Tfw action was mainly pro­rPdural. but prosPcutors could havnasked for mor<' lime lo inVl'.Stigate, dra,ving out the case. Officials haVP said the trial would take plar.e in ()ctntwr, though no spedfic date has benn set. Ile faces 20 y(iars in prison if con­
victed. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Atlantic storm upgraded to hurri­cane: Joycn, the tenth Atlantic storm of the s1mson. dcvelopnd into a hurricane Wednesday whilP llurrkanc Isaac rebuilt ils strength after Wf'a kPning for thrnc days. Both storms were far out al sPa and posed no immediate threat to land. Ilowever, thon• \Vas a chance that Joyce, which formed as a tropical stnrm Monday off West Africa, could rcach the northeastern Caribbean islands in fivci to six days, said James Franklin. a hurricane specialist at the National Hurricane Center in Miami. 
Michigan cop charged with manslaughter: A policeman was charged with manslaughter Wednesday for shooting to death a deaf-mute who approached officers with a rake in his hands. David Krupinski, 23, fired on 39-year-old Errol Shaw after police were called about a family dispute August 29. The Detroit NMCI' called the shooting of Shaw "horrifying and sickening." Shaw was black, the ollker is white. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Gas tax suspension extended: Citing continued shortfalls in crude oil across the nation. Gov. Frank O'Bannon on Wednesday extended his suspension of the state sales tax on gasoline for the third time. "While prices at the pump have declined since this sum­mer's peak of nearly two dollars a gallon, supplies of crude oil and gasoline have not kept pace," ()'Bannon said. He did not say when the five percent tax might resume. Some Hepublicans have accused O'Bannon, a first-term Democrat, of using the suspension to boost his re-election chances against Hepublican David McIntosh. The governor has denied that. 
Market Watch 9/27 

Dow 
10,628.36 -2.96

}ONES Up: UJB AMEX:  Same: 473  •928.45  Composite Volume: l.l72,199,936 -0.56  
Nasdaq:  3656.30  -32.80  
NYSE:  656.05  +l.22  
S&P 500:  1426.57  -0.64  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE INH.!.CORI' ONTO +1.31 +0.~() 4388 ( I.ICU WHI.MS IC:SUll ..-.l.8'i ..2.1"'2 57..11 MICROSOfT CORI' (MSl'Tl -330 -2.0(, 60.62 l)EI u:o'vlrUTER (DEI.Ll ·3.52 -118 32.44 l'!UCEUNE.COM (!'CLN) -U.J3 -7.89 10.7) 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
YUGOSLAVIA 

Associated Press 

BELGRADE 
About 200,000 joyful, banner-waving opponents of Slobodan Milosevic flood­ed the capital's main square Wednesday in a massive show of support for the opposition. claim to vic­tory in the presidential elec­tion. 
The crowd -unseen in such numbers at anti­Milosevic protests in recent years -blocked Belgrade's Republic Square and the surrounding streets. 
Throughout Serbia, the dominant Yugoslav repub­lic, thousands streamed into city streets, celebrating what they say was the opposition's stunning tri­umph in Sunday's presiden­tial and parliamentary elec­tions. 
Demonstrators threw fire­crackers and flares, and waved thousands of ban­ners reading "He is fin­ished" -a reference to Milosevic's poor showing against opposition candi­date Vojislav Kostunica. 
In the center of the square, a note displayed on a digital clock reading "Slobo, where is your courage now?" 
"Milosevic can recognize the opposition victory and thus try to clear his image, or to drag himself on in the dust," opposition leader Milan Protic, who is expect­ed to become mayor of Belgrade, told the crowd. 
The protesters shook baby rattles distributed by the opposition, to show that Milosevic was a broken fig­ure -playing on a Serbian language expression to describe something defec­tive as "broken like a baby's rattle." 
"I can feel a lot of happi­ness in the air," psycholo­gist Zarko Trebjesanin said of the mood in Belgrade. "The genie of freedom and democracy has escaped from the bottle and it's impossible to push it back in." 
Shortly before the rally, Yugoslavia's foreign minis­ter tried to discourage protests, appearing on state television and alleging other nations were meddling in Yugoslav affairs. 
Zivadin Jovanovic said pressure was being applied through foreign media and independent news organi­zations at home, which he said were trying to present a distorted picture of the country in service of Western enemies. 
Opposition leaders, trying not to do anything that might give Milosevic a pre­text for a crackdown, did not contest a police order to move the rally from the ini­tial venue -a platform in front of Yugoslavia's federal assembJy -after authori­ties said it would disturb work of the State Election Commission. 
"Our aim is to avoid clashes, but there are hard­liners in the state leader­ship who want something to happen," said Zoran Djindjic, a key Milosevic opponent. Djindjic added the opposition received assurances from the police that they would not inter­vene. There was no visible police presence as the rally began. 
The opposition, using fig­ures from its poll watchers, claimed Kostunica won 
52.54 percent to Milosevic's 
32.01 percent -enough for a first-round victory in the five-candidate field. But the State Electoral Commission, wp.ich is loyal to Milosevic, says Kostunica finished first with 48.22 percent while Milosevic polled 40.23 per­cent. 

Report: U.S. overpays for drugs 
reimburses at a rate similar to the ment methods are "so deeply flawed 
A5sociatcd Press 
publicly announced price, so doctors that they invite rampant abuse" and 
WASHINGTON can make large profits -a practice the findings have "frightening implica­

The federal government overpays the report a<;knowledged b legal. tions for public health." hundreds of millions of dollars a year The committee chairman, Rep. The Clinton administration has pro­for drugs through the Medicare pro­Thomas Blilev, criticized the Health posed reducing the amount it reim­gram, congressional investigators Carn Financing Administ.ratinn, which burses physicians for drugs from 95 report. runs Medicare, for not doing more to percent of the wholesale price to 83 
An 18-month study by the House ensure reimbursement rates are more percent of the wholesale price, but the Commerce Committee fom1d that for in line with what drug companies idea has stalled in Blilev's committee. dozens of drugs. most of which are actually charge doctors. 1-ICFA does not need congressional used to treat AIDS and cancer, drug The report found Medicare is over­approval to reduce the reimbursement companies report one wholesale price charged by $447 million per year. for about 50 drugs for which the publicly, then charge doctors a much Bliley, in a letter to the agency's Justice Department already has deter­lower price to encourage them to use administrator, Nancy-Ann Min mined drug companies were charg­the drug. The federal government DeParle, said the current reimburse-ing doctors artificially low prices. 
Thursday, September 28, 2000 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

SMC makes history with triathlon club 
By KATIE McVOY 
New, Wmcr 
Saint Mary's is on its way to making campus history Wit il tii e a 1111 o ll 11 C tl llW 11 t o (' tlw first (lVf'r Saint Mary's triathlon. 
This year Saint Mary's inlroducPd llH~ Triathlon Cl LI b' tlrn nrs l cl ub t () b l1 spunsornd only by Saint Mary's. Other club sports in tlw Nolrn Danw/Sainl Marv's community arc either co­sponsored with Notre Dame, or an~ cxdusively sponsored by Notre Dame. 
Thn club bPgan meeting last year but becanrn an establishml club this fall. 
"This !'all we rnally foci like a f'ormal club," assistant alh­letic director Grntchcn llild<\brandt said. "Wn have members who arc consistent and uniforms for the women." 
of the race. 
Following the swim portion of tlw rarn, participants will head to the commons in front ol' Hcgina whern bicyclists will start racing according tu their swim times. The bikn race and the running ,w1\11t will be continuous. 
Although the first triathlon will only havP. Saint Mary's students for competitors, the club plans to open the next triathlon lo the rest ol' the community. 
DuP to limited facilities, only 60 individuals or teams can participate in tlrn race. 
'Tm a little nervous about turnout," llildcbrandt said. "We just want to get one triathlon under our belt lwl'ore we opl!n this to the COllllllUnity." 
Thn next triathlon, tenta­tively scheduled f'or some­time this spring, will be open to members of the Notre 
Dame com­
llildcbrundt, a munity as
"We just want to get
tri-athl11tc, took a well. leading role in one triathlon under "We want the nstablishnwnt our belt before we to get Notre 
or the Triathlon D a m e
open this up to the
Club. involved so The club will community." that Ithe sponsor its first Triathlon 
triathlon Oct. 8, Gretchen Hildebrandt Club! is co­sponsored,"
1

a t P · m · Th c assistant athletic director 
course will involve a 400­yard swim. a nine-mile bike ride and a lhrec-mile run. 
"ll's going to be great," llildebrandl said. "It will be run very professionally." 
Registration for the triathlon may be done as an individual or as a relay team. Individuals must pay a n\gis­tration foe of $6, and teams will pay a registration f'ec of $12. Proceeds will go to sup­port the triathlon club. 
Participants will time the race and the top finishers will rect1ive awards, includ­ing the first three individuals and the first team to com­plete the course. 
The race will begin with 20 laps in lkgina Pool. Snveral heats will swim due to the smallness of the pool, so tim­ing will be an important part 
llildebrandt 
said. 

The addi­tion of Notre lJame to the club would open up addition­al facilities. Ilildebrandt said this would allow the two schools to create a very good course. 
"We want to create a quali­ty course for the area," she said. lllldebrandt said the Triathlon Club's event will bring a unique newcomer to the community. 
"[The triathlon] should give the club recognition. which is very important," she said. "This is the first time that Notre Dame or Saint Mary's has seen tl1is kind of club." 
"In addition, the spring triathlon will get noticed in the community," she added. "There are a lot of tri-ath­letcs in the community that will respond." 

Los Angeles Guitar Quartet 
Thursday, September 28, 2000 8 pm, Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Tickers Required: $3 S<udencs • $6 seniors• $8 ND/SMC employees• $10 general admission lickets available ac ,he LiFonune Box Office, (219) 631-8128 
Master Class: Thurs., Sept. 28, 3 pm, Htsbu~ Library Faculty Loung• (The mancr cl...s is free and open m the public) 
For complet< informauon, visi1 hnp:llwww.nd.edu/-congocrs or call (219) 631-6201 
STUDENT SENATE 
BOT report focuses on alcohol 
By LAURA ROMPF 
A..sistant News Editor 
This year's Board of Trustees (BOT) report will focus on stu­dnnt alcohol use and abuse, the Student Senate learned Wednesday night. 
"The trustees recommended this issue and this year we have a free !'lowing discussion for­mat," said Mike I!inns, co-chair of the BOT rnport. 
"There's a lot or confusion about all tlw ruins. We want to address concerns brought from students about inconsistency between male and female dorms, what constitutes a scri-
Shirt 
continued from page I 
said that the shirt did endorse sexism. 
"I think the shirt says that Notre Dame men hold control of' women to choose," said sophomore president Kristen Matha. 
"To me that shirt is sexist," agreed Kahn. "We need to con­fiscate and prevent any distrib­ution ol' them." 
BOG agreed to absorb the cost of the shirts and ban any distribution. 
"We don't discredit the Junior Board," said Michelle Nagle, student body vice president. "This is an opportunity to learn and strengthen out relations with Notre Dame. 

"You win some, you lose some and this is a learning experience," Renner said. 
ous offense where the student is of staff Jay Smith. "I don't want sent to HesLife,'' llines said. to put words in his mouth. but 
The report will basically lw said lw also discuss Ithe is not looking to resident assistant's! makn major
"There's a lot of 
role as an enforcer changes. The cam­
confusion about
or a resource for pus will not be dry students. all the rules." any time in tlrn llines said the rwar fut.urn." th rec goals of the Smith Pxplaincd
Mike Hines
student representa­that Poorman 
BOT report co-chair
tives arc to ha vc wants to address 
consistency in the rules, to increase the amount ol' education each year and to increase the amount of on-campus entertainment. 
"I talked to Father Poorman ITuesdavl and he said this is his numbcr"one concern," said chief 
In other BOG news: 
. The Board approved a statement supporting The Observer's independPnce 
"We, as members of the Board of Governance, support the Observer's efforts in main­taining their independence," the Board of Governance for­mally stated last evening. 
The Board had tabled the issue last week, but agreed a statement needed to be issued and believe "The Observer should be granted journalistic freedom," said Nagle. 
"I don't feel comfortable sit­ting on the issue when we know they may get banned. Waiting isn't going to help and they need and want to know our position," said board member Julie Frischkorn. 
"It's important to endorse The Observer," Kelly Dugan said. "If it comes down to them having no freedom even in edi­torials, [it] would be a traves­the issue becaus1\ it 
is a national phe­nomenon and Poorman wanL,; to make sum Notre Dame is on the right track. 
"\Ve want lo make sure the students have a voice on this issue," Smith said. 
ty." 
BOG's support for has become a morn vocalized issue at both the College and University. 
"I University Prnsiclent] Father IEdward I Malloy went ahead without addressing Saint Mary's and in doing so may be taking away our paper. It is important to support The Observer and let our voices be heard," said Sutorius. 
. 
The BOC also discussed the Study Day Proposal. which "has had very positive feedback from the Administration," said Nagle. "It will now be taken up with the Department Chairpersons and looks promis­ing." 

. 
"The Cider llousn Hul!is" will play in Carroll Auditorium Friday and Saturday at 7 p.m. Saint Mary's in the City and LeMans' llall dance are Saturday. Pride Week is next week. 




Thursday, September 28, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
INDONESIA 
Bomb rocks office of 
human rights group 
Associated Press 
JAKARTA 

A bomb exploded outside the ufficr of a prominent Indonesian human rights group Wednesday, just hours bd'ore the corruption trial of former president Suharto wa::; set to resume. 
There were no injuries in the bombing. the latest in series of blasts in Jakarta. Damage was minimal, police said. 
The explosion occurred late Wednesday in front of Kontras. an organization that investigates cases of kidnap­pings and violence by Indonesia's security forces. 
There have been a series of deadly blasts in Jakarta recently, including a Sept. 13 explosion at the Jakarta Stock Exchange that killed 15 peo­ple and another outside the Philippine ambassador's home on Aug. 1 that killed two. 
Some of the blasts coincided with advances in the corrup­tion case against Suharto, leading to speculation that they were the work of his sup­porters and clements of the security forces opposed to Pn1sident Abdurrahman Wahid's democratic reforms. At least 30 suspects have been arrested. 
Lawyers for Suharto, ousted from office in 1998 amid pro­de mo cracy protests, have denied any involvement in the bombings. 
Privately owned Anteve tele­vision said a group calling itself' the "Anti-Communist Mov1>.ment" had accepted responsibility for Wednesday's explosion. 
Munir, the chairman of Kontras, said his office had received several anonymous bomb threats recently. Like many Indonesians he uses only one name. 
Suharto, 79, is accused of siphoning off at least $583 million in state funds to bankroll businesses controlled by his cronies and children. 
The former dictator has denied any -wrongdoing and has failed to appear at the trial on the grounds of failing health. His lawyers say he is frail after three stokes and cannot face the rigors ol' a long court case. 
Wahid, on a trip to Caracas, Venezuela, said Wednesday that police should allow stu­dents protesting outside Suharto's house to vandalize it. 
"The most they can do is throw stones at the windows. Leave them be, I mean, Suharto was very corrupt, wasn't he?" Wahid said, according to the state Antara 
news ag-encv. 

I Do you THINK THE LANGUAGE YOU HEAR (oR READ) MIGHT AFFECT I 
·------------------~-· 
I YOUR BEHAVIOR? YouR FEELINGS? Do YOU THINK THE LANGUAGE I 
I  You usE MIGHT AFFECT YOUR EXPERIENCES? You SHOULD HEAR THIS:  
I  
I  
:  The Language ofAwareness:  
I I  Taking Responsibility for Meanings  
I  STEVE STOCKDALE  
I  PROGRAM MANAGER, WRITER, CONSULTANT  
I  TRUSTEE, INSTITUTE OF GENERAL SEMANTICS  
I  TH1slsNoTTHAT.COM  
II  SEPTEMBER 29, 2000; DEBARTOLO 129; 3:29PM SPONSORED BY THE L'<NGUAGE RESOURCE CENTER  

I I I 
; 
I I I I I I 
I
I 

PERU 
Congress01an: Ar01y plots coup 
• Ex-opposition member defected to Fujimori's party 
Associated Press 
LIMA 

An opposition congressman who defected to President Alberto Fujimori's ranks charged Wednesday that the army high command was pressuring lawmakers to par­ticipate in a plot to provoke a coup within 20 days. 
Congressman Miguel Mendoza, who defected from the opposition to Join Fujimuri's Peru 2000 party, said the army intended to permit the return of the pres­ident's deposed spy chief, Vladimiro Montesinos. He announced Wednesday that he was quitting Fujimori's party, and added that joining it had been a mistake. 
"I am denouncing that a group of congressmen from Peru 2000 have been pres­sured to sign letters of resig­nation, prepared in the army's high command. to form a congressional group in favor of Vladimiro Montesinos," Mendoza said. 
He said the purpose "would be to promote disorder within Congress and throughout the country to unleash general­ized chaos and carry out a coup d'etat within 20 days, which would allow the return of ... Montesinos." 
, The army's information office issued a brief commu­nique Wednesday night call­ing Mendoza's allegations "absolutely false." 
Prime Minister Federico 
Salas called on Mendoza to 
submit evidence. 
"It's a very serious charge, but it's clear the congress­man who made it will have to show proof," Salas said Wednesday. 
A meeting between govern­ment and opposition repre­se n tati ves was suspended soon after Mendoza made his allegation. The talks are aimed at repairing Peru's damaged democracy and are being held under the aus­pices of the Organization of i\mcrican States. 
Eduardo Latorre, the OAS' permanent secretary in Peru, who was at the talks, down­played Mendoza's charge, saying it had been mentioned in passing. 
Opposition leader Fernando Olivera said there had been a "unanimous reaction" to Mendoza's charge by both sides to "close ranks and "reject any kind of coup attempt." 
Montesinos, who fled the country for Panama on Sunday amid a corruption scandal, hand-picked the top 
comman­ders of the army. who are believed to be loyal to him. 
Fujimori, who ruled for a decade, announced Sept. 16 that he would call new elec­tions in which he would not be a candi­date. He said he 
"T am denouncing that a 
prosecutor group ofcongressmen N i n a Rodriguez
from Peru 2000 have 
said Tuesday
been pressured to sign 
she had letters ofresignation, moved tu 
prepared in the army's quash a 
criminal
high command, to form a 
investigation
congressional group in 0 f 
Montesinos,
Javor of llladimiro 
a shadowy
Montesinos." 
figure whose spy network Miguel Mendoza has long been accused
Peruvian congressman 
would relinquish power to a new government on July 28, 2001. 
The decision was prompted by a corruption scandal sur­rounding Montesinos, who was caught on videotape apparently bribing an opposi­tion congressman to defect to Fujimori's ranks. 
At least 10 lawmakers from Fujimori's Peru 2000 political alliance have abandoned the party since the scandal broke, including Mendoza. As of Wednesday, Fujimori's leg­islative bloc held only 54 seats in the 120-member Congress, eliminating the control he maintained during the last eight years of his 10­year presidency. 
Congressman Moises Wolfenson, one of the law­makers who quit Peru 2000 on Monday, said his decision was not influenced by any 
outside forces. "There was no type of pres­sure, as [Mendoza] has alleged," he said. 
Fujimori lost the congres­sional majority at the polls in April, but regained it before he swore his oath to a third five-year term two months ago, amid accusations that Montesinos had used bribes and coercion to gain support from opposi­tion lawmakers. 
Former presidential candi­date Alejandro Toledo on Wednesday called on Congress to oust Fujimori and install a transitional gov­ernment ahead of new elec­tions. 
"To wait until July 2001 to have a new president is a costly agony that Peru cannot afford." said Toledo, who boycotted a presidential runoff against Fujimuri in May because he said it was 
rigged. 
Meanwhile, 
of human 
rights abuses and forcefully bending Peru's democratic institutions to Fujimori's will. 
Rodriguez, a provisional appointee widely viewed as acting under Montesinos' orders, argued that Montesinos was simply a presidential adviser with no official title, and could not be charged with official corrup­tion. 
Montesinos was the de­facto head of the National Intelligence Service but did not hold an official appoint­ment. 
"The investigation was con­ducted in a proper manner, without any outside pres­sure," she insisted. 
Montesinos' request for political asylum in Panama has been supported by the Organization for American States and the Clinton admin­istration, which views his exile as necessary for Peru to repair its shaky democracy. 
U.S. 
Gen. Peter Pace, who was recently appointed com­mander of U.S. military oper­ations in Latin America, met Tuesday with Fujimori, as well as Peru's defense minis­ter and the commander of Peru's armed forces. 

U.S. 
officials said Pace made the visit to express the "con­tinued support of the United States for democratic efforts in Peru," and that it was part of a routine tour of the region. 




page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 28, 2000 
FDA reviews abortion pill RU-486 amid debate 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
With a drndlinc f'ast approach­ing, lhc Food and Drug Administration was poised to decid,i. perhaps as early as Thursday, the fate of the long­awaitPd abortion pill HU-486. 
Abortion-right., adv()cates said Wednesday they expected the pill lo be approved under certain restrictions designPd to ensure women take it safely. 
If so. it would be a long-await­ed victory for abortion-rights groups, Anti-abortion organiza­tions have battled to keep HU­48(> out of the United States since the drug debuted in France in 1988 -and they pledged Wednesday to c:ontinue fighting the drug if it is sold here. 
Approval has been long expected. The Clinton adminis­tration in 1994 persuaded French manufacturer Boussel Uclaf to give U.S. rights to the pill to the nonprofit Population Council. which hired a U.S. mar­kcling company lo apply for FDA clearance. In 1996, the FDA declared HU-486, now known by its chemical name mifepristone. safe and effective for early abor­lion. But problems passing mu.n­uf'acturing and labeling n~quire­mcnts delayed final approval. The fl)A had set Saturday as its deadline to decide, and could accept or reject the drug or request more information. 

Studies show mifepristonc is 92-95 percent effective in caus­ing aborlion when taken during the first seven weeks of preg­nancy -earlier than most sur­gical abortions, 
But it docs require at least two. sometimes three, doctor visits, to ensure the abortion is complete and finish it surgically if necessary. Women swallow mif'epristone, w11ich blocks a hormone essential for maintain­ing pregnancy. Two days later they swallow a second drug that causes uterine contractions to expel the embryo. 
"This is an extraordinarily safe and effective method for terminating a very early preg­nancy," said Vicki Saporta of the National Abortion Federation, noting studies found less than a 1 percent rate of complications. 
Expecting approval, the feder­ation beefed up its national hot line Wednesday in preparation for calls seeking mifepristone. 
Judge awards Anna Nicole SIDith $449. 7M 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES 
A federal bankruptcy judge awarded former Playboy Playmate 
of' the Year Anna Nicole Smith $449.7 million Wednesday in her 
claim to the estate of her late billionaire husband, Texas oilman 
J. Howard Marshall. 
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Samuel Bufford ruled that Marshall's youngcist son. E. Pierce Marshall, had deprived Smith "of her expectancy of an inheritance." 
lier attorney. Philip Boesch Jr., said Smith ,-vas '.'very pleased" and buliPves tho ruling "puts tho matter to rest." Marshall called the ruling a "miscarriage of justice" and said he would appeal. 
Bufford's decision came just a day bef'ore jury selection was scheduled to begin in probate court in Houston, in a dispute over the validity of Marshall's will, which left all of the oilman's estate to his youngest son. That case pits both Smith and Marshall's disinherited elder son. J. [!oward Marshall Ill, against Ii. Picrcn Marshall. 
HELP!HELP!HELP!HELP! 
Student Activities has immediate openings for the following student em lo ee ositions: 
LaFortune Building Managers Building Set Up Crew Sound Technicians 24 Hour Lounge Monitors 

Cops erroneously stop Clinton aides 
Associated Press 
WAS! IINCTON 
Two White Ilouse aides said thcv wPre traumatized, cmbar­ras"sed and humiliated when gun-wielding police stopped them in a Washington suburb, erroneously believing they Wf!re driving a stolen car. 
Bob Nash and his wife, Janis Kearnny, both or whom are black, said in a three-page statement Wednesday in response to media inquiries that they were victims of racial profiling and were stopped !'or the "bogus crime of driving while black. .. 
The incident occurred Sept. 6 in suburban Montgomery County, Md. 
The county's police chief. Charles A. Moose, has denied the case involved racial profil­ing hut said during a radio call­in show, "We're very sorry that this happened. We're not per· feet." 
Describing the incident, the two White !louse staffers said arter they were stopped by police. who, aiming pistols and shotguns, surrounded their vehicle, patted tlwm down for weapons and handcuffod them. 
"Pistols and shotguns were 
Capt. William O'Toole, said Nash's car was stopped because it was bnlievod to be a car reported stolen in the same area about 45 minutes Parlier. Ile said Nash was handcuffed for "his own safety" and main-
aimed at us until we were hand­
"Pistols and shotguns
cuffed.... We were trau­were aimed at us until matized as a 
we were handcuffed ... 
result of the 
We were traumatized as
stop." wrote 
N a s h . a result of the stop." adding that the incident 
Bob Nash
left the two 
White House aide
"embar­rass n d, humiliated 
tained that Kearney was 
urderod  to  
remain  in  
the car.  

Although police denied that Nash and his wife w o r e stopped as result racial profiling, authorities 
h a v c 
and afraid for our lives." 
Nash is director of the OlTice of Presidential Personnel at the White !louse, and Kearny works as a special assistant to the president and records man­ager. 
A county police spokesman. 
acknowledged that Urn stolen car was reported to have been taken by a black male. 
The incident became public Tuesday when a l'cllow White Ilouse worknr asked Moose to comment on it during a radiu call-in show. 
Mayor reacts to turfwar shooting in middle school 
Associated Press 
NEW OHLEANS 
Amid concerns that an ongoing turf battle may have led to a school shooting, the mayor sought to turn the discussion toward why chil­dren have such easy access to guns. 
"Neighborhood and school rivalries are as old as the city. What changes that is when children have access to guns," Mayor Marc Moria! said Wednesday. "That takes an innocent shoving match and turns it into a violent incident." 
Darrell Johnson, 13. and William Pennington, 15, traded gunshots in tho crowded breezeway of Carter G. Woodson Middle School shortly before noon Tuesday, police said. 
Johnson got the gun from a 13-year-old friend outside a chain-link fence and shot Pennington; Pennington then grabbed the gun· and shot him in the back, police said. 
Johnson's mother. Catrice. scorned caught off guard by her son's alleged involvement in the shooting. 
"I feel like somebody at school should have known something. My son is not a trouble­maker," she said. 'Tm not saying he's a per­fect kid. but he's not a bad kid." 
The boys were upgraded to stable condition Wednesday, said Jean Patterson. Charity Hospital spokeswoman. 
L~J~tt l~.D> Stnll!~~.ttilt9 L~r.1,lk~ 181~,llttll,J\J ClJu~uc~ 1 1 ,.. :\ lllt.'~~.1:.:c lwm 1'11.1.ARS with :\l.:lllwl & Dru:.: hlu,·,1ti"n 311 L, hirtunL' Stu,k·nr l\·ntL'rn\driirnk :: -~ /2,OZ [p.ur,e,a, co.lilol l'nh·,n,iry 11f :--1,rrL· D,tlllL' (2 I9) 6 } I ·iV;l)which is approximately http :{{\\·,,w.n,l.nlu/ • ldru'.!! 10 oz 5% beer= 4 oz 12% wine= 1 oz 100 proof liquor  


Thursday, September 28, 2000 
The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 page 9 
Gore prepares for first debate 
Associated Press 
Wt\.SIIINGTON 

In the vice presidential dining room, Texas wiseacre Paul Begala drawled zinger after stinging zinger, winning applause as a dead ringer ror Hepubli• c a n George W. Bush. 
Begala's best lines? Those arc k C p t u n d c r wraps. said a Gore adviscF, just in case the vice president wants to use one himself in the three dcllatcs against Bush that start next Tuesday. 
Gore and his full slate of advisers -including wife Tipper, brother-in-law Frank !lunger and daughter Karcnna 


-are planning to settle in at. Sarasota, Fla., this weekend to finish up preparations that have been going on for months. 
It's the same place where, during his 1996 rehearsals to face Hepublican Jack Kemp, Gore insisted aides replicate the debate hall exactly -right down to room temperature. Gorn said he's not going to be as picky this time. 
"I don't think it matters that much," he told reporters Wednesday aboard Air Force Two. ''I'll be doing some more reading. We'll probably do a couple or practice sessions. It's a unique forum in American politics. You know, you never know what's going to happen. You try to do !he bes1. you can." 
lie admitted some concern that he could scorn points on substance, but lose to Bush on style. "I think it's the same question people ask about how people vote: do they vote on the issues or on the person? Both. 
llow do you separate them out? ... It's above my level of exper­tise. I just feel my way along." 
The candidate hunkered clown Tuesday night in his Des Moines hotel suite with briefing materials after a dinner of takeout barbecue with Hunger and son-in-law Drew Schiff. But most other debate rehearsals were staged at Washington's Naval Observatorv, Core's of1i­cial residence, where the dining room is the only room with space enough to set up. 
"It's not complicated. You try to guess at the subjectareas ­the three or four that will come up in each" debate, said cam­paign chairman William Daley. Beyond th"1t, Daley didn't want to talk debate strategy for fear of giving away intelligence to the other side. 
Daley, strategist Carter Eskew and speechwriter Bob Shrum arc among the tight cir­cle of advisers involved in debate rehearsals to date. 
GOP, Dems argue about Medicare 
Associated Press 
WJ\SlllNGTON 

Hepublicans and Democrats in Congress agreed Wednesday that prescription drug coverage for Medicare recipients is more important than partisan politics, then swiftly resumed campaign­season warfare over the issue. 
"Democrats were AWOL" when Hepublicans pushed their legislation through the House earlier in the year, charged llcp. Bill Thomas, H­Calif. J\s l'or Vice President Al Gore and his campaign 
rhetoric on the subject, Thomas said the Democratic presidential candidate "appears to be a pathological prevaricator" -a liar in plainer. dictionary terms. 
llouse Democrats rolled wheelbarrows piled high with empty drug vials along a side­walk outside the Capitol in a made-for-television event designed to dramatize the urgency of helping Medicare rcci pients cope with the high cost of medicine. Senior citi­zens walked alongside, some holding their pill bottles aloft. 
"For months Republicans in Congress have blocked these benefits in the name of sham bills that don't provide univer­sal coverage -that don't help people who truly need it ­and that the president will not sign," said Democratic Leader Dick Gephardt of Missouri. "They have blocked these ben­efits as a favor to the pharma­ceutical companies and the insurance industry." 
With rhetoric hardening on both sides, the prospect for legislation appeared dim beyond an effort to allow re(mportation of drugs from 
Canada, where they  arc  less  
expensive  than  in  the  50  
states.  

Poll favors Bush after new shifts in campaign 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
George W. Bush has reclaimed some momentum in the presidential race, attracting women and senior citizens, focusing on his best issues and benefiting from con­cerns about Al Gore's truthful­ness. 
After sev­eral weeks when the campaign appeared to be moving in the Democrats' direction, evidence pointed to a Bush comeback fueled largely by his renewed appeal to female "swing voters" and seniors. 
"It was a combination of two things," said nonpartisan politi­cal analyst Stuart Rothenberg. "Gore was back on the defen­which gave Bush a 48 to 42 per­cent lead, suggested senior citi­zens supported Bush slightly more than Gore -47 percent to 41 percent. However, the elder­1y prefer Gore's approach to Medicare and health care gen­erally. Gore was up by almost 20 points among this group in a poll in early September. 

Bush and Gore arc currently about even in other national polls. Both Republicans and Democrats said Wednesday they feel the race is very close, maybe the closest since 1960. 
In the past week, Bush made well-received TV appearances on "Oprah," "Live with Regis" and CNN's ''Larry King Live," Rothenberg said, "Next, I expect to see him on the Food Channel.'' 
The Times poll suggested Bush has reclaimed an edge on such personal traits as trust and likability after Gore had pulled even on most personal traits fol­1owing the summer political conventions. Gore retains the advantage on such issues as 
sive, back on his heels cin the question of integrity and  "Bush has understood better than any Republican we've ever  health care, edu­cation and Medicare. The shirt  
truth-telling.  seen how to target  toward Bush in  
And Bush was back on the issues that he's good on -like education -and not merely  women voters.,, Stuart Rothenberg political analyst  recent days is largely caused by a bloc of swing voters not affiliated with either party, a  
reacting  to  majority of them  

political process, like he was women, said GOP pollster Linda doing for four weeks." Diva!!. Polls suggest they are 
When Bush wasn't talking often lower-income women. 
about education in the past Democratic pollster Celinda week, he was criticizing Gore's Lake acknowledged: "Bush has plans for Medicare and energy understood better than any policy. Republican we've ever seen how 
A new Los Angeles Times poll, to target women voters." 


Pulling Your Hair Out? Come To: 
oJ> \/I' \\'I 1![;All ll-:111 Cl L 11=::,\ ~ · 
"Contemporary Hair Styles 7Days AWeek" 1811 South Bend Ave. South Bend IN 46637 (219) 271-7674 
$2 OFF WITH Ttt1s AD THRU Ocr. lsr! 
Tlrn•sdaqs Ol"e students night. 5tw:lents receive 25% off meal p•ice witb qour sfudEnt I.D. 

M1cb1ano's ,noat unique dininq •,cpe•i•nce LocofeJ In ti.. b..a<w...., at tbe H1sfof'ic 100 Center in Misl.,awalco (2.19) 257-1792 


COLLEGE REPUBLICANS WEEKLY MEETING 
**New Memberes Still Welcome** 
When: Thursday, September 28 
7:00 p.m. 
Where: Montgomery Theater, Lafortune Student Center 

www.lOOcenfer.com 
Free Pizza Will Be Served 

Page 10 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 28, 2000 


BEST MUSICAL 1996 TONY' AWARD 1996 PULITZER PRIZE 

\ \ THREE PERFORMANCES ONLY! 
OCTOBER 3-5 
MORRIS PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
Froa the front page of THE NEW YORK TIMES to the cover of NEWSWEEK, fro• its Pulitzer Prize to its sweep of the 1996 Tonye Aw,uada, Jonath(m L,uaaon'a wru.alcal haa been hailed aa •• raw and riveting llileatone in musical theaterr• by ROLLING STONE. 
STUDENTS SAVE tl5 
219.245.6085 
•UNITED AIRLINES 
Broadway Theatre League 


Not Talld with any other d1seount or proaotional offer or on preTlously purchased tickets. ~bject to aYa11ab111ty. Not Yal1d on *2G seats sold l hr before curtain. Valid only with Student ID. 
Thursday, September 28, 2000 The Obseruer . NEWS page 11 
Same-sex benefits 
remain in question 
A.,ociated Press 
MONTPELIER. Vt. 

The University of Vermont is giving its gay employees until the end of 2001 to enter a civil union with their partners or they will no longer receive domestic-partner benefits. 
The decision was made to 
treat the "circumstances of 
the early 1990s. Now. with the civil union law in effect, the school says gay employees must enter a civil union by Dec. 31, 2001, if they want the benefits for their partners. 
"How odd that UVM should stand out as one of the first workplaces in Vermont to with­draw their same-sex benefits clause," wrote one dismayed staff' member in an e-mail to 
married couples and civil union couples consis­tently,"' according to a school memo­randum sent to 30 affected employ­ees Tuesday and Wednesday. 
"If we did one but not the other we wouldn't be very consistent," university spokesman Enrique Corredera said. 
"How odd that UVM should stand out as one ofthe first workplaces in Vermont to withdraw their same-sex benefits clause." 
UVM staff member 

university President Judith Rarnaley. "The ink on the civil union law is barely dry." 
New employees will have to certi­fy that they are married or civilly unified to get spousal benefits, which include health and life insurance, access to university 
Vermont is the first state to allow gay couples to enter into a legal relationship akin to mar­riage. There is still a dispute, however, as to whether employ­ers in the state are required to provide spousal benefits to cou­ples in civil unions because company insurance policies are primarily regulated by federal law. 
The University of Vermont has provided health insurance and other benefits to the domestic partners of its employees since 
Ill 
facilities and free tuition. New employees from out of state who want domestic partner benefits will have 90 days to enter a civil union to get the benefits. 
One employee who will con­tinue to get domestic-partner benefits is Holly Puterbaugh, a lecturer in the math depart­ment. She was a plaintiff in the lawsuit that resulted in a state Supreme Court decision that found Vermont's marriage law unconstitutional because it denied the benefits of marriage to gays and lesbians. 
Computer studies crowd panic 
. Scientists use technology to simulate hysteria 
Associated Press 
Mob stampedes have killed thousands of people in recent years. but they are usually explained in terms of psycholo­gy. Now, European scientists say they can predict and pre­vent crowd panic via computer simulations using the laws of physics. 
The new computer model relies on distances, sizes and velocities instead of emotional states but produces results sim­ilar to actual panics, the researchers said in Thursday's issue of the journal Nature. 
"We think it works particular­ly well in panic situations because people don't think about what they should do," said Dirk Helbing, a professor at the Institute for Economics and Traffic at Dresden University of Technology. 
The computer models reflect the conditions of a room from which people are trying to escape but cannot use or see exits. The virtual victims appear as particles that reflect an average person's speed, size and desired distance from oth­ers. 
Under normal circumstances, a crowd exits a theater or stadi­um in an orderly and coordi­nated fashion because everyone is moving at a leisurely pace and at an adequate distance from one another, the researchers said. 
But when the speed of the individuals increases in a panic. they bump into oach other, cre­ating friction and violating per­sonal space. As a result, almost everybody moves less quickly. 
Eventually, solid arch-shaped barriers of people clump 
around the exits and even fewer people can pass to safety. Victims collapse and are trampled, creating fur­ther obstacles for the others. 
"People want to leave faster, but the result is 
that they are leaving slower and then the tragedy begins," Helbing said. "The question is what can you do about that?" 
One solution is to build a par­tial barrier in front of the exit, the researchers said. It could absorb pressure from the crowd that can become strong enough to crush a person, break a brick wall or bend steel. 
"It turned out that we had no injuries," Helbing said of the approach. 
As the world becomes more crowded, such simulations will grow more important for archi­tects, event planners and police. 
This year, eight people were killed in July at a rock festival in Copenhagen, and a dozen died the same month after a World Cup match in Zimbabwe. Ten years ago, more than 1,400 pilgrims were killed inside a tunnel leading to Mecca. 
Helbing and colleagues Illes Farkas and Tamas Vicsek found many causes for panic. In some cases, a crisis like a fire or a poorly planned obstacle can drive the hysteria. 
The researchers also used their simulation to devise 
"People want to leave faster, but the result is that they are leaving slower and then the tragedy begins. " 
Dirk Helbing research scientist 
strategies for surviving crowd panic. In the case of a burn­ing theater where smoke obscures the exits, just acting alone or totally following others can be deadly. they said. The solution is to do 
a little of' both. 
"It requires some individual­ism to explore the environment, to find the possible solutions and then, if there is someone who found the solution, it is good for the others to follow," Helbing said. 
The new computer models are especially useful because they consider individual actions within the group, David J. Low, a civil engineer at Heriot-Watt University in Scotland, said in an accompanying commentary. 
Most modern buildings are designed assuming crowds flow through the exits like fluid through a pipe, he said. 
"This traditional approach assumes that the crowd is made up of identical, unthink­ing elements," he said. "A fluid particle cannot experience fear or pain, cannot have a pre­ferred motion, cannot make decisions and cannot stumble and fall." 


8:00 p.m.  Los Angeles Guitar Quartet, Hesburgh Library Auditorium*  
8:30 p.m.-10:30 p.m.  Open Rec Lacrosse, Court 1, RSRC  
8:30 p.m.-11 :00 p.m.  Open Swing Dancing, LaFortune Ballroom  
8:30 p.m.-Midnight  ND Express Billiards games open, LaFortune Student Center  
9:00 p.m.  Acoustic Cafe, LaFortune Student Center Huddle  
9:00 p.m.-9:30 p.m.  Information Session for Holy Cross Missions, CSC Coffee House  
10:30 p.m.  Movie, "Return to Me", DeBartolo 101* and "The Godfather: Part 1", Rm 155*  

Friday. September 29 
5:30 p.m. Women's Soccer Game vs. Seton Hall, Alumni Field 
7:00 
p.m. Women's Volleyball Game vs. Villanova, Joyce Arena 

7:00 
p.m.-10:00 p.m. Open Rec Badminton, Court 2, RSRC 


7:30 p.m. Men's Soccer Game vs. Pittsburgh, Alumni Field 
8:00 
p.m. Movie, "Return to Me", DeBartolo 101* and "The Godfather: Part 2", DeBartolo 155* 

8:00 
p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "Timecode", Snite Museum* 


8:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, LaFortune Student Center 
10:00 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "Timecode", Snite Museum* 
10:30 p.m. Movie, "Return to Me", DeBartolo 101* 
Saturday. September 30 
5:00 p.m.-12:00 a.m. lrishpalooza: Live Music, North Quad 
8:00 
p.m. Movie, "Return to Me", DeBartolo 101* and "The Godfather: Part 3", DeBartolo 155* 

8:00 
p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "Timecode", Snite Museum* 


8:30 p.m.-Midnight ND Express Billiards games open, La-Fortune Student Center 
10:00 p.m. Cinema at the Snite, "Timecode", Snite Museum* 
10:30 p.m. Movie, "Return to Me", DeBartolo 101 * 
*Denotes admission charge for ND/SMC students 
This calendar is compiled by the Student Activities Office. Programs are subject to change without notice. For up to date info check out the ND calendar, Today @ ND at www.nd.edu or call Student Activities at 631-7308. To add an event to further calendars lease send the details about the activi to sao@nd.edu 
· • • • • • • • • .....,, • · • · · • · • · · · -• · -· • • • • • .. ·, • • uit 1111n11 uu1hHlltHHlllttllUHUtHUUtlUUtlltUHUUIUIIIIIHtlllHflntiunP 
Thursday; September 28, 2000 

Page 12 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
...------------------------------------, 

Something for 


every 
one of 


your 
9,000 tastebuds. 

Introducing the new 99( BK CRAVERS™ Menu. 
NEW MENU ITEMS 
• Finger Foods -Mozzarella Cheese Sticks -JALAPENO POPPERS® 
Thursday, September 28, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 13 
NETHERLANDS 
Lawyer points to major flaws in Lockerbie case 
Associated Press 
CAMP ZEIST 

A defense attorney in the Lockerbie trial sought to discred­it the prosecution's key witness Wednesday, claiming his testimo­ny was riddled with "carefully crafted lies." 
"I did not lie ... I did not lie," the Libyan witness, who became a CIA spy four months before the bombing on Dec. 21. 1988, said in response to relentless ques­tioning by Bill Taylor. 
Taylor's client. Abdel Basset Ali al-Megrahi, is accused with co­def c n d ant Lamen Khalifa 
off," Taylor reminded the wit­ness. "I don'l remember that I was blamed for anything," said Giaka. 
On Tuesday, Giaka claimed that in late December 1988 he saw the defendants carry a brown Samsonite suitcase ­similar to the one that contained the Lockerbic bomb -through Malta's Luga airport, where he was assigned as a Libyan Arab Airlines employee. 
Prosecutors say the suitcase bomb was sent from the Mediterranean island of Malta, a regular transit point for Libyan VIPs and intelligence agents. 
Taylor pointed 
out "a deafening

Fhimah of "It is a carefully crafted 
silence" in CIA 

sending the lie. just like all the debriefers'suitcase bomb 
carefully crafted lies reports about
that blew up that incident,
Pan Arn Flight you've concocted. " 
suggesting

103 over 
Giaka fabricated 

Lockcrbie. 
Bill Taylor it.
Scotland, 
Giaka also tes­
defense attorney

killing 270 peo­
ple. 
Taylor claimed the prosecution's key witness. identified by the pseudo­nym Abdul Majid Giaka, fabricat­ed evidence about the bombing at the lime of the investigation to please his American employers. 
"We see the same sequence repeated." Taylor said. "The Americans saying, 'We're not going to pay you money.' You demanding money. The Americans saying, 'You've not come up with anything.' Then 
' you come up with something." Taylor read from a Sept. 1, 1989, cable from Giaka's CIA handler. who began to have doubts about the Libyan turn­coat's access to intelligence. The handler recommended cutting off his $1,000 monthly salary "until such access can be proven." "You were giving pretty low­level information and you had to do better. otherwise you'd be cut 
tified al-Megrahi 

and Fhimah stored a cache of TNT at Libyan airline's office in the airport until weeks before the Lockerbie dis­aster. 
But Tavlor noted that Giaka's account fn court conflicted with what he told CIA debriefers about the explosive in October 1988, shortly after he became an informant. 
Although Giaka testified the TNT was still locked in an office desk when he was debriefed, CIA documents record him as saying it had been removed months ear­lier. 
Taylor maintained the story was invented after the fact so as to be unverifiable. 
"It is a carefully crafted lie, just like all the carefully crafted lies you've concocted," Taylor said. 
The defendants have pleaded innocent to the bombing, claim­ing Palestinian terrorist groups were responsible. 
120 North Main St. 
(219) 255-7737 Mishawaka, Indiana 46544 
Fax: {219) 259.9579 
~~.~ 
Restaurant 
T.J. Laughlin 

General ~anagerClass of 1973 
,, 

GREECE 
Ferry sinks with 01ore than 500 aboard, British Navy responds 
pie hanging from the railings. Children were cry­

Associated Press 
ing and old people were screaming," Zoe Kalida told private Mega television. "I jumped in and
PAROS 
looked back after about 50 meters and the shipA Greek ferry hit a patch of rocks in the Aegean was gone."

Sea and sank, killing at least 40 of the more than "I thought of the Titanic," another survivor,500 people aboard, who panicked and started engineer Stamatis Delavinias, told Mega. ''Thejumping overboard, rescue officials said. 
boat sank in about half an hour. There were old A port official also suffered a heart attack and women and others who were afraid to jump indied after hearing news of the sinking, the coast guard said Wednesday. About 46 people were missing. 

"Children were crying

Justice Minister Michalis Stathopoulos said the accident and old people were had been caused by "criminal 
screaming.

negligence," and prosecutors ordered the arrest of the ship's captain and four crew members. Zoe Kollda 
Coast Guard chief Andreas 
survivor 

Sirigos said 40 people were con­firmed dead after the 34-year­old ferry boat Express Samina sank. It hit a large rocky outcrop late Tuesday in rough seas about two miles off the popular resort island of Paros. 
A crew member interviewed by telephone said there was an orderly evacuation. But passengers reported a strong collision and then panic. 
"The ship fell apart as it sank. There were peo­the sea." 
Dozens of fishing boats, other vessels and British Navy heli­copters rushed to the scene and helped in the rescue. 
The ferry's owner said there were 447 tickets sold and 63 crew members aboard, but the exact number of passengers was not known as some may have purchased their tickets onboard and children under the age of 5 
are not required to have tickets. 
The head of the Paros Health Center, Dimitris Stavrakis, said "there a number of young children among the dead." A British Navy helicopter in rescue operations touched down at Paros airport and was seen unloading four bodies. including that of an infant. 
Candidate Prforffles Social Justice Campaign Issues Cafholc Social Teachings 
• 
CNk pa~:: N~::bus va~es 
~ Bush Buchanan 
How will You deeide to vote? 

Electi¦ lo 



Going to the Voting Booth as Persons of Faith 
Presented by: NETWORK, a Natlonal Catbollc loclal Justice Lobby 

Where: Debartolo 141 I~en: Ion day 10/2, 4:30 pm 
lpouore, IJ: The CIC 11d t~t C11c11trat10111 
NETWORK
,..

Cat•onc loclal T11chl111 
C£1'4tER FOR 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 



Friday vs. Seton Hall 5:30 pm Sunday vs.Rutgers 1:00 pm 
Wear your futbol shirt!!! 





Friday vs. Pittsburgh 7:30 pm Friday 
vs. Villanova 7:00 pm 
* First 250 fans receive a ND autograph book! 
ALL WEEKEND!

Sunda vs. Geor etown 2:00 m 
VIEWPOINT 
Thur:.day, September 28, 2000 os~lRVER page 14 
THE OBSERVER 
l'.0. Bux Q, Nu1n, llan,c, IN 46556 021 Somh Drnmg I !all, Notre· D,unc. It,; 46556 
EDITOR IN Cillf.l' Mike Connolly 
MANM;ING EOITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Norem Gillespie Tim Lme 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR 0PF.JlATIONS MANAGER Christine Kraly Brian Kessler 
Nt:WS EDITOR: Anne Marie Mmmgly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughc}' SPORTS EUITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: ArnanJa Greco SAINI MAav's EunoR: Molly McVoy l'IIOTO EDITOR: Eli,abcth Lang 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Pat Peters AD DESICN MANAGER: Chris Avila SYSTFMS Al>MINISTRAT0R: Mike Gunville Wm ADMINIHRATOR: Ad~m Turner CONTROi.i.ER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EJJITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGF.RIGF.NF.RAL INFO..........631-7471 FAx.... ..... ... ..... . .......................... 631-6927 
AllVt:RTl~ING..............................,......631-6900/8840 
ubscrver<i!1darwin.cc.nd.cdu EDITOR IN CHIEL ............................, ....631-4542 MANAGING EmrnRIAssT. ME.. ........ .........631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICf... .....................................631-5313 NEWS.........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 

VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 ubservcr.vicwpoint. l{!l'nd.e<lu SPORTS........................................................63 !-4 543 observer.spores. !@nd.edu 
SCF.NF........................................................631-4 540 
observer.scenc. l@nd.edu  
SAINT MAnv's..  . ................................. 631-4324  
obscrver.smc. l@nd.edu  
PHOTO  . ......... .... . ...... .. .......631-87G7  

SYSTf.MS/WEB AllMINISTRATORS .................631-883') 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site a, lmp:!loburvrr.rrdrd11 for daily updates ofcampus news, spores, features and opmion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from th,· A.ssoci,Hed Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-10-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly studenr reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial cunpu., coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles puhlishcd after 
to rncct the editors and 
Augusi 1999 
sraff 

POLICIES 
rl1e Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Norre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by polici,-s ofthe a<lminimation ofcirhcr institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advcrri>cmerm based on content. 
The news is repuned as accurntdy and objectively a.s possible, Umigncd editorials represent rhc opinion of the maiority of rhc Editor in Chief, Managing EJiror, A.ssi11ant Managing Ediror and dcparrmcnt cditurs. Commcmaric,, letters and columns pre-sent the views of the authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Vic-wpoinr spa,c is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letccrs is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact inf{>rJtlJtion. 
Qttmirm, rey:llrdi11g Oburv,rpolicies should be dirfl't• ed '" i:t.!i,or i11 Chi,fMilte Co11nolly. 

Touring Notre Dame with a "humpty" 
Thirty years ago (when I was young and virile), I regularly played golf with three close friends. Tom was the charac­ter in the group. Ile was 15-20 years older than the rest of us and the celebri­ty, as a prominent 
attorney and a member of a well­known Notre Dame family. 
Tom was one of those guys who always had a clever quip. When one of' us would chili-dip a shot, Tom would 

yell out "It's the bat-Russell Gagnon tle of the humptics." When he would sink a putt to win a hole Cappy's (and the dime per 
Corner 

hole we always bet) he would shout "How the money rolls in!" When I would hit an occasional (OK -periodic) fat shot, Tom would call it a "hump-backed liner." 
Tom was always great fun on the golf' course. lie never took a practice swing, preferring to blast away, right after he placed his ball on the tee. As he uncoiled his 6'5" frame and let loose with all he had, he could hit the ball a mile, or a foot. In both cases, he would continue to talk even while he was in his swing. Nothing llusternd him. but he was a "carrier." lie flustered us. But, he was so much fun, we loved to have him in our group. You couldn't help but smile when Tom was around. 
Tom had been a pretty good baseball and softball player in his youth, so he could really crank out a long drive. I saw him miss a double eagle at Erskine Golf Club by two inches. He lell a two iron on the lip, from over 220 yards. As usual, Tom never saw the ball, since he did a complete corkscrew on his swing. 
Thirty years ago, at age 43, Tom seenwd older than that I le was often befuddled. lie never arrived on time, usually running to join us on the second tee, sometimes telling us he had gone to the wrong course or showed up the day before and waited for us. l le usually had some chili spilled on his shirt. No matter how many times we played a course, Tom never seemed to know where the next hole was. 
A couple of years ago l learned from Tom's family that he was suffering l'nim Alzheimer's. Tom liked to winter in Florida. His family had to bring him home because he was unable to lind a way to walk back across the street when he left his home. Knowing the kind of guy Tom was, I couldn't imagine a worse sentence than to have lost his mind. I remembered some of the things Nancy Heagan has said about President Heagan and how cruel the disease is. 
Imagine my surprise, a f'nw weeks ago, when I looked up from my desk in the Security Building and there was Tom. l le looked about the same as he looked 30 years ago, like he remained in a time warp (maybe my eyes are no longer young and virile). lie walked towards me and said "llello Capper. You look funny without a golf club in your hands." Ile asked me a.bout "Pat" my golf partner of 30 years ago whom neither of us h1L'i seen in 2 5 plus years. I le asked if' Mike and I were still playing gall'. It seemed like a miracle had taken place. Ile asked me about my job at ND. After a while, a friend ofTom's came by and told him they had to get back to "the home." Off Tom went. 
I did some checking with Tom's family and learned that he is in that stage where he can be somewhat normal, when zeroed in on the past, but that he has zero short-term memory. When I asked Torn about his five kids, he could recite their names in birth order, but he couldn't remember where they all were. 
Tom has an ex-wifo, Shirley, who will be on the express train to !leaven when her time comes. Shirley has assumed a big role in looking after Tom. She spends time with him and arranges for friends and family to look in on him. l volun­teered to take a shift on Tuesday. When I pulled up to the Milton Itome, across f'rom Memorial Hospital, them was Tom. sitting in the sun, along with an elderly woman. Ile greeted me just like the old days. 
Anyone who saw me driving tlrn Notre Dame Security Coif Cart around the cam­pus on Tuesday aftm·noon would have seen Tom having the time of his lif'c, waving to all the people we encountered. I le really enjoyed seeing the lakes ("l used to go svvimming here with my dad," a former Notre Danw professor). the Grotto l"We used to burn up those can­dles at exam time"). tlw prntty girls on the campus (it was a chore to n!pcat the same answer, each time he askrd me how many female studPnts we had, every time we passed onP) and the football sta­dium. "So, what do you do here at Notre Dame?" (I could have said that l was the Strength Coach. or the Grnnd Poobah, because he kept asking). 
While I was driving the golf cart back to my car, to drive Tom home. he asked me 10 times where he had parked his car. lie thanked me profusely for my time. I le called himself' a "lost soul." I kidded Tom about tlrn woman who had been sitting in the yard with him. I le said, 'Tm afraid I've taken the vow of celibacy again" (reminding me that he was once a CSC seminarian). 
Tom's brother and I have talked about how Tom's ::HJ year old befuddlement might have been his easing into the twi­light of' this awf'ul disease. I'm sorry to see Tom this way, but I'm thankful that Tom can't see it. 
Cappy Gagnon '66 somelimes gels chuckles from student workers Howyn, Liz and Ahbie, whenever he confuses their names or acts befuddled. 
'l'lie views expressed in this column are those ofthe author not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT 
,---0-0_G_B_E_R_T_C_O_N_S_U_L_TS--ijr-~~===~==~-,~r-::======~=::i:::-,
.--::==============:::::::-,~ YOUR FOUNDERS .. ONE. BUM MISDIALED 
'(OU CAN RE.VIVE THE ENTREPRENEURIAL SPHUT HE.RE B'!' REMINDING PEOPLE 
OF THE EARLY YEARS. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Friendship is the only cement that will hold the world together." 
Woodrow Wilson president 

® WERE TWO BUMS ~ HIS BOOKIE ANDI WHO BE.GAN IN A l ACCIDENTALL'( ~ CARD BOARD BOX. BOUGHT CI5CO 
u 

"' STOCK i\T 
THE IPO. 

VI·EWPOINT 
O
THE 

page 15 BSERVER Thursday, September 28, 2000 
POLITICAL FACE-OFF 
Pursuing better education for all 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Stealing the pride and joy of a fan and alum 
Disappointed. Irate. Disenchanted. As you might expect one up the pole. Never is this Marine to allow another a trophy or South Bend home. However, I personally sus­this has something to do with football, but nothing to do individual tarnish his post. pect it is not far from the shadow of Our Lady. with action from the Stadium. I have known Col. Richard Recently Colonel Lochner purchased a large banner My suspicions are not important, my message is. Theft Lochner. '61. f'or six years. Saturday was the first time I r!'ading. "Go Irish, Beat -!" The "_" is a velcro portion by one of his own family cul,; deep. This is not a trophy would cv<1r use those words to describe him. for each opponent. Most importantly, the banner contin­for a dorm wall -this is a testament to family. Get 
Col. Lochner lives in "the house with the flags" at the ued, "The Lochner-Ciancio Families welcome classes of something else to cover oIT-white paint. Return the sign corner of Notre Dame Ave. and Angela. '37, '61, '93, '95, '00! Please stop in and say hi." no questions asked. Or, if you happen to sec it. 
I le admirably exemplifies God, Country, Notre Dame. His pride swelled when we hung it atop his stone fire­demand it returned. lie feels obligated to preserve that corner with all the place. One alumnus stopped to have his picture taken Shame on whomever fur taking it. Shame on us for let­spit and polish of a good Marine. Por all the alumni or after thP Texas A&M game. llis sole gratification is to ting down one of our own by not making it right. friends of the University I have ever met, he fully embod­make his corner a visible sign of family, our family, the ies the spirit of Notre Dame. Notre Dame family. Dennis Ciancio 
What is his reward? Twenty-three 11ags have been Stolen' Maybe that was to be expected, but what a class of '95 stolen, only to be rrplaced as quickly as he can fly a new shameful expectation! Perhaps it was some visitor taking September 19, 2000 
M 
c~ne E 
Thursday, September 28, 2000 
MOVIE REVIEW 

life, love and music harmonize in 'Famous' 
By GUNDER KEHOE 

Scene Movie Criric 
At age 15, Canrnron Crowe was tast­ing fame as a freelance _journalist for Holling Stone; shadowing the Allman Brothers, Louring with Led Zeppelin and collecting memoirs for the film "Almost h1mous." a coming ol' age story snt amidst the 
old could take, he learns a lol about love, life and why musicians make their music. 
Fortunately, Crowe's initial big­name cast (which included Brad Pitt) didn't pan out because the ensemble is perfectly balanced. The addition of a movie star could have lopsided the film. 
As a novice actor, Fugit is both 
charming and awk­


hnyday of' Hock 'n' "Almost Famous" ward: but the true Holl. stars are lludson lmagiiw the oppor­and Crudup, who tunities of 1973: the 
both radiate a God­concnrts, the after given mag,wtism. It's partil'S laced with hard to imagine an drug us!', the sexual out offive :,;hamrocks actress at the ripe favors. Now throw in old age of 21 brim­Lim innocent eyes of ming with such con­a young writer to Director: Cameron Crowe fidence, but Hudson capture it all. Under shines like a newly
Starring: Billy Crudup, Kate 
tho nostalgic dime-polished pearl.Lion of Crowe, this Hudson, Patrick Fugit, Frances 
Crudup is what you atmosphere finds its McDormand, Jason Lee and Philip expect a rockstar to 
way 011 film and 
Seymour Hoffman

exudes an indescrib­
able energy that 
holds each viewer's head on the 
screen. 
William Miller (newcomer Patrick Fugit) is Crowc's 15-ycar-old stand-in. Since he's in his senior year of high school. William's social scene never finds its stride. Oh well. at least he has a prodigal writing talent and a job with Holling Stonn as a fallback option. 
Armed only with his notepad and a passion for Hock 'n' Holl, William dives lrnadfirst into the hedonist world of' Stillwal<~r. an up-and-coming band that's walking the light rope between fame and failurn. 
Stillwatcr's universe is a movie within a movie. a stage where every­one is wearing a mask. Jeff Bebe (.Jason Lee) is the "cool" lead singer, Husstdl Hammond (Billy Crudup) is the guitarist with mystique and Penny Lane (Kate lludson) is their self-pro­claimed muse who inspires musical riffs. 
/\llhough he may look young, William handles his environment with composure and, aside f'rom the occa­sional orgy, resists booze and recre­ational chemicals. Besides, he has a mother (Frances McDorrnand) to track his overy move and a legendary music writer, Lester Bangs IPhilip Seymour 1loffman), lo warn him of the occupa­tional hazards. 
William not only experiences the coolest week-long journey a 15-year­
look like: long mus­
tache, shoulder­
length hair and a 
guitar always straddling his lap. lie 
nails the silent performance of' a man 
who puts all words and emotions into 
the strumming of his instrument. 
Aside from the music, "Almost Famous" captures the adolescent abil­ity to love and admire earnestly with­out the cynicism that comes with age. William falls in love with Penny, but he's too honest and "uncool" to get his love returned. Everyone can sympa­thize with falling for that unreachable person who clearly likes you but is afraid to admit it. 
William may never get his interview with the elusive Hussell. but the rock idol still treals him like a younger brother. It's sweet justice to see the tables finally turn for William. llis brush with fame doesn't last long. but it's worth more than four years atop the high school social ladder. For once, he is no longer the runt. Ile can hold his head up high while strolling with Stillwater. William's peers are in awe of his position, shaking their paper scraps, wishing for autographs from his friends. The outcast finally has his shot at something he's never been: one of tho crowd. 
Perhaps more than anything, Crowe relishes life and those many small journeys that fade like a dream. William is thrust into this Hock 'n' Holl family and. for no more than a week, they're inseparable, cruising desolate roads of' the Southwest and smelling death high above the Midwest. Then, he walks up a stair­way to his room and he's back in real­ity. The people arc forever scattered and all that's left are blurred memo­ries, a few Polaroid's and scraps of paper that need to somehow fit the pages of Holling Stone. William's experience should inspire everyone to buy a pen and notepad and begin recording their own lil'e. 
At the heart of this sprawling road piece are the sounds of '70s Hock 'n' Roll. Music isn't so much the focus as it is I! backdrop for William's journey, but Crowe affectionately treats his music like another character in the story. Whether it's a needle hitting vinyl or young hands sifting through 
records, one can see the director's adoration for music on tlrn big screen. Today, music and fast-food are pretty much the same. Both are manufac­tured quickly and, while they· feel good at first. their sensation turns sour. It's refreshing lo see an era when "recording artist" was an hon­est title. 
"Almost Famous" is episodic and plays like vignettes of pure character and '70s atmosphere. For some, it might feel choppy, but this is part of the l'ilm's charm. We move briskly from scene to scene like they're pages ripped from William's journal. The best part about "Almost Famous" is that, like the music on its soundtrack, it will only play better with time. 


Photos courtesy of DreamWorks SKG 

In the semi-autobiographical "Almost Famous," Cameron Crowe enlists the acting talents of Patrick Fugit (far left) to portray William Miller, a young writer thrust into the world of 1970s Rock 'n Roll. Penny Lane (Kate Hudson) and music critic Lester Bangs (Philip Seymour Hoffman, on right) aid William on his journey. 
... 
E 

Thursday, September 28, 2000 

MOVIE REVIEW 
'Sunshine's' formula is a tasty treat 
the layer of water freezes around him.
By JUDE SEYMOUR 
After the war, Adam's son, Ivan (Fiennes 
Scene Movie Critic 
in role three), wants to retaliate for all the 
injustice Hungary brought upon his father 
"Sunshine" is based on an original story and his fellow Jews. Ivan joins the bv director Istvan Szabo. It recounts the Communist party and works for the t~lc or the Sonnenschcin family. an upper Hungarian government. He soon realizes 
middle class Jewish family residing in that the government he works f'or is not Hungary. The movie's 
interested in helping the opening monologue 
Jews. In fact, Ivan is explains the "sunshine" "Sunshine" asked to interrogate Jews 
connection: Sonnenschein because the Hungarianis translat(!d as "sunshine" 

government now views and, in addition, is the 
them. as an organized name of' the family's 
threat. 

prizPd elixir, knovm for its 
Disillusioned. Ivan healing qualities. returns home to find the Tl1c movie explores Director: Istvan Szabo lost recipe book for the 
three generations or the 
olll offiue shamrocks 
"Sunshine" elixir, hoping 
Sonncnschcin family, Starring: Ralph Fiennes, 
to make something of his starting with Emmanuel Oavid DeKeyser, Rachel Weisz 
life. 


_Sonnenschcin (David and William Hurl DcKeysP.r), the father of Ignatz {Halph Fiennes). As the story progresses, each child of the gen­eration will have to make an important political or religious choice, and bear the consequences of that choice. lgnatz, craving power after being well received as a judge, moves to change the family name to "Sors," hoping to sound more I lungarian. Ignatz's son, Adam (Ralph Ficnncs in role two), is an accomplished foncer. When the renowned 011icer's Club courts him to be a part of their team, Adam wants to join. The group does not allow Jews, how­ever, so Adam converts to Homan Catholicism. For Adam. his Jewish faith is l'ar less important than a shot at the Olympic gold medal. When Adam dies in a concentration camp, it is because he refuses to acknowl­edge his Jewishness to the German offi­cers, instead proclaiming that he is "Adam Sors. Olympic gold medallist and olftccr of the Hungarian Army." In the movie's most dramatic moment, the Germans string him to a tree and cover him with water until 
In his searching, he 
finds a letter from Emmanuel Sonnenschein to his son, Ignatz. In it, Emmanuel explains that the family has been successful for one reason. It is not the short-term financial stability that the elixir brought; it was never a polit­ical affiliation, and it was never the fleeting glory of' having power. It was a strict adherence to Jewish tradition: a 141.ith and trust in God that has guided the family long before there ever was an Ignatz or an Emmanuel. 
The letter was written as a desperate plea for lgnatz to reconsider his craving for power, and Ivan secs this letter as his new spiritual guide. He changes his name from Sors to Sonnenschein, and the movers toss the recipe book in the compressor when Ivan leaves behind the Sonnenschein estate in Hungary. 
At three hours long, the movie has an obligation to keep every generation's story interesting. Director Istvan Szabo does a remarkable job weaving the themes of pol­itics, love and religion throughout all three vignettes. 
While the story's structure is strong, 
Photo counesy of Paramount Classics 
Ralph Fiennes (right) plays three different roles in director Istvan Szabo's "Sunshine," an epic historical drama recounting the lives of three sons. 
Lajos Koltai's cinematography is utterly remarkable. Koltai has three scenes that leave a lasting impression. The first is an extreme overhead sequence (done perhaps with a plane) of lgnatz and his lover, naked in the woods. This scene captures the theme of their fear of being caught and their spontaneity. 
The second sequence is of Ignatz and his lover diving into the shadows as they escape the watchful eye of Ignatz's land­lord. · 
And the third amazing sequence is the remarkable Hungarian Fencing Championships set. The fencers are in the middle of a striking multi-leveled structure in which, on every floor, captivated observers watch each block and strike. This is a beautiful looking film. 
Even more impressive is the multiple roles undertaken by Fiennes ("The English Patient"). Fiennes, already an accom­plished actor, is able to build each charac­ter's identity uniquely. He gives us three different roles, each as remarkable as the next. This helps alleviate any confusion 

-
when the stories overlap. Fiennes is able to draw out the misery, the euphoria and the passion of every character he plays. No performance is weaker than the other two, and the story thrives on this ability to involve the audience in wanting to witness the fates of lgnatz, Adam and Ivan. 
"Sunshine" is well made on so many lev­els, from its intricate story to its unblem­ished acting by its star. At three hours, the movie could drag for some viewers, and those already familiar with the political upheaval in Hungary could find the amount of time spent explaining the politi­cal situation a bit too much. 
However, the power of the three stories should make this a well-liked movie. Those who have seen "Sunshine" and are attract­ed to the themes of love and coming of age should also explore the 1988 Italian drama, "Cinema Paradiso," which is noth­ing short of a masterpiece. 

VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 
'Last Seduction' offers a modern twist on film noir ,,.. cheek lilm noir puts a new spin betrayed. Bridget chooses a town, complexity that, peeled away, local guy way out of his depth. 
By MATT NANIA 
on an old genre, audaciously mix­a bar and Mike (Peter Berg), a may offer explanations. It's an But it is Fiorentino's mocking,
Assistant Scene Editor 
ing dark comedy and suspense hapless. hockey-playing local who interesting change to watch sharp-tongued meanness that for a unique blend of laughs, lust, pats himself on the back for his Fiorentino create a straightfor­sustains the film. She seems Despite a title that sounds like a 
betrayal and murder. quick pickup of the new girl in ward, malignant villain who has wrapped in a self-confidence that cheap erotic thriller, "The Last 
The typical classic noir follows town. Big mistake. In Bridget's not one ounce of hypocrisy about allows her to play Bridget exactly Seduction" made over 30 critics 
the male hero, usually solving a world, she's the boss and he's the her intentions as she is: no Top Ten lists in 1994 -and mystery or becoming entangled in sex object. and believes she excuses, no rightly so. This dark, tongue-in-one, at the center of which is a It takes Bridget a lot longer to is entitled to "The Last explanations and 
deadly woman: the beautiful seduce Mike to murder than it did everything she no false notes. femme fatale. llere, the plot to bed. This final seduction builds wants. Seduction" Her heartless-unfolds from the perspective of' to an unbearablv clever denoue­Although it is as ness is an art. the femme fa.tale: the icily wicked, ment that is essentially a victory polished as any D' Which in large clever and utterly heartless lap for the protagonist. drama around. ,rector: John Dahl part is what Bridget Gregory {Linda "The Last Seduction's" plot "The Last Starring: Linda Fiorentino, m a k e s Fiorentino). does have the requisite twists, "Seduction."
Seduction" was Peter Berg and Bill Pullman 

And, like the classic noirs. this turns and surprises. but none of made for and first described quite one bas a lot to say about the them are particularly jaw-drop­screened on cable rightly as "a sexy blackness at the hearts of women ping. Dahl and writer Steve television in the U.S., then went modern film noir," so enjoyable. and men. As bad as Bridget is, Barancik are more concerned into theatrical release. That's why Directed with a steel-honed most of the time, she simply gets with tone and character, and it was ineligible for Academy edge by Jolm Dahl (who went on what she wants by giving mPn deliver in both categories. Award consideration. This rule is to direct "Rounders," starring some version of what they wunt. But ii' there is one aspect of the inflexible. which is what the film­Matt Damon and Edward Which isn't always pretty. story that is truly impressive, it is makers found out when they Norton), ''The Last Seduction" is 
The first of the luckless unfo1iu­what doesn't happen. The formu­challenged the Oscar Academy in one of the few contemporary nates to cross her is her husband laic qualities of so many movies the American courts. movies that remains appealing (Bill Pullman). who n111kes the have conditioned viewers to That's too bad, because all even though there is nary a. single mistake of' slapping her just after expect a comeuppance for char­three actors showcase their finest person on screen you actually they have successl'ully purloined acters like Bridget: however, at work. Bill Pullman ("Spaceballs" like, admire or respect. money in a drug deal. crucial moments when it seems and "While You Were Sleeping") All you can do is watch. trans­
In retaliation and without hesi­that she's made a critical mis­is terrific as the husband bent on fixed as Fiorentino works her tation, she llees with the cash and take, she's still one step ahead. revenge, and Peter Berg ("The wiles in the Olympic cruelty com­creates a new identity that will Most movies give us villains Great White Hype" and TV's petition. She wins. Everybody else protect her from the n1an she has who are wrapped in layers of "Chicago Hope") is perfect as the loses. That's entertainment. 
j 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 28, 2000 
.. 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Red Sox eliminated from playoffs despite win 
Associated Pre&> 

CHICAGO Chicago's Cal Eldred didn't stay past the fourth inning Wf1rlncsday night. But 
with a surgically implanted screw near his right elbow, he did show he can still pitch in the major leagues and be effective. 
Eldred didn't fig­ure in tho decision us the Boston Hed 


Sox -eliminated Garciaparra from the wild card race earlier in the day by Oakland's 9-7 victory over Anaheim -sent the AL Central champion White Sox to their fourth straight loss 2-1. It was a night for the White Sox to hold tryouts for injured hurlers Eldred and James Baldwin to see if they might be able to rejoin the rotation for the playoffs. Eldred threw 49 pitches over :-i 1-3 innings, reaching the low 90s mph in 
volocity an<l giving up two hits and a run on Nomar Garciaparra's 21st homer. 
Baldwin (14-6). bothered by shoulder tendinitis, went four innings in relief, giving up an unearned. go-ahead run in the fifth and four hits. They both could pitch again this weekend. 
Paxton Crawford (2-1) allowed just four hits and a run in six innings to pick 
-
up the victory. Derek Lowe got his 40th save in 45 chances. 
Eldred had a five-inch stainless steel screw surgically implanted Sept. 7 to stabilize a stress fracture in his elbow. Ile hadn't pitched for the White Sox since July 14 when he had to leave a game against St. Louis in the fifth inning because of pain in the elbow. 
Eldred, who had elbow ligament replacement surgery in 1995, helped the White Sox jump out quickly this season by winning 10 games, including eight straight decisions before he was hurt. 
Eldred was told if he didn't have the surgtiry, the stress fracture would return next year -he's had it three straight seasons -or be could retire. 
Determined to get a chance to pitch in the postseason for the first time, his recovery has been swift. 
After surrendering Garciaparra's 
homer. Eldred was taken out and got a 
rousing ovation from another small 
crowd of just 16,368 at Comiskey Park. 
Ile walked one and struck out four. 
Baldwin, who hasn't pitched since 
Sept. 8, gave up an unearned run in the 
liflh on Mike Lansing's single, a sacri­
fice, a passed ball on Charles Johnson 
and sacrifice fly by Trot Nixon. 
The White Sox, who've already wrapped up home, field advantage for the playoffs, scored in the first on Chris Singleton's single, stolen base and HBl single by Carlos Lee. 
Devil Rays 11, Yankees 1 
Jose Guillen, Ozzie Timmons and Fred McGriff homered as Tampa Bay once again prevented New York from clinching the AL East. 
Cory Lidie (4-6) limited the two-time defending World Series champions to five hits in seven innings. The last-place Devil Rays won for their fourth straight game against a playoff contender. 
New York, which lost for the 11th time in 14 games, is assured of at least a tie for first place and can win its fourth division crown in five years with one more victory or losses by Toronto and Boston. 
Yankees owner George Steinbrenner visited the clubhouse to talk with man­ager Joe Torre and general manager Brian Cashman before the game, then watched the team drop its fifth straight on the road. 
Guillen's three-run homer off Denny Neagle (7-7) was the big blow in Tampa Bay's four-run second inning. McGriff hit his 416th career homer in the third and Timmons added a two-run shot off reliever Randy Keisler in the fifth. 
The Devil Rays added three runs in the seventh when Timmons grounded into a force play and John Flaherty fol­lowed with a two-run double off Jay Tessmer. · 
The loss was the third straight for Neagle, who has given up 19 runs in 10 2-3 innings in those outings. Five of the 15 hits he's allowed during the losing streak, which comes on the heels of winning four straight, have been home runs. 
McGriff's 26th homer moved him ahead of Cal Ripken Jr. into 28th place on the all-time list. It also gave him 104 RBIs, tying the team record he set a year ago. and put the Devil Rays up 5-0. 
New York trailed 7-0 before finally 
breaking a streak of 30 consecutive 
scoreless innings by Devil Rays starting 
pitchers in the sixth. Scott Brosius dou­
bled and scored on Chuck Knoblauch's 
single. however the Yankees were 
unable do any more damage against 
Lidie. 
Lidie struck out three and walked one 
before being replaced by Dan Wheeler. 
Tampa Bay's four-game winning streak 
is the team's longest since the Devil 
Hays won a club record six straight 
from July 26-Aug. 1. 
Royals 3, Tigers 0 
Jeff Suppan pitched his second career shutout and Mike Sweeney and Joe Banda padded career-best years with solo home runs as Kansas City beat Detroit. 
Suppan (l 0-9), who leads the majors with 36 home runs allowed, held the Tigers to six hits, striking out three and walking three. 1-lis only other shutout was on Aug. 3, 1999, when he beat Anaheim 7-0 on a five-hitter. It was his second straight complete game and third of the year. 
Suppap also saved the Royals' belea­guered staff the embarrassment of being the first in franchise history not to have at least one starter with double­digit wins. 
Sweeney hit a 1-1 pitch from Hideo Nomo (8-12) over the left-field fence leading off the fourth and hiked his team-record RBI total to 142, tying Frank Thomas for the AL lead. Sweeney has 28 home runs. 
One out later, Randa hit a 1-1 deliv­ery over the wall in left-center for his 15th homer and career-best 103rd HBf. 
Hector Ortiz, who was 3-l"or-3 with one double and two singles, scored in the seventh on Hey Sanchez's single. 
Nomo had his winning streak halted at four games. !-le allowed with three runs on eight hits in 6 1-3 innings, with one walk and six strikeouts. 
With 860 runs this season, the Royals have broken the club record for runs scored for the second consecutive year. 
Indians 8, Twins 2 
Jason Bere didn't blow another seven-run lead and Manny Ramirez and Jim Thome homered as Cleveland kept pressure on Oakland in the AL wild 
card race with a victory over 
Minnesota. 
Berc (6-3) rebounded from a disas­
trous start in Boston last week wh<ln he 
gave back a 7 -0 lead to the Hect Sox, 
who rallied for a 9-8 win. 
That loss could kenp the Indians awake at night this winter if they're unable to catch the A's, who beat Anaheim on Wednesday and remained I 1/2 games ahead of Cleveland. 
The Indians have four games left and 
the A's four, plus a possible makeup 
against Tampa Bay on Monday, if nec­
essary. 
Bill Selby, getting a rare start at DII, had two HBls when the Indians broke it open with a l"ive-run fourth off Brad Hadkc (12-16). 
Thome, in one of the worst slumps of his career, homered fur the lirst time since Sept. 5 -a span of 83 at-bats in the sixth. 
Bere has either been real good or good bad in his 11 starts for the Indians since coming over in a July trade with Milwaukee. 
The right-hander allowed two runs and five hits 5 2-3 innings. 
Cleveland came to bat in the first inning against Hadke (12-16) just sec­onds after Oakland's 9-7 win over Anaheim was posted on the left-field scoreboard, and Hamirez quickly put the Indians up 2-0 with his 34th homer. 
Kenny Lofton opened with u bunt sin­gle, and two outs later, Ramirez con­nected for his fifth homer in 4 7 career at-bats against Hadke. 
It's frightening to think what Hamirez may have done if he hadn't missed 44 games this season with a hamstring injury. Since returning, ho's batting .372 with 22 homers and 71 HBls in 67 games. 
And his numbers rise, so docs the dollar amount it could cost the Indians to re-sign him as a free agent. 
With David Segui resting his sore right foot, Selby made his first start as the Indians' DII and triggered the five­run fourth with a two-run single. 
Hamirez singled. and one out later, Travis Fryman got a double when right fielder Matt Lawton slipped and fell on the rubberized warning track. Selby fol­lowed with his base hit to make it 4-1. 
Sandy Alornar, Kenny Lofton, Omar Vizquel and Hoberto Alomar each fol­lowed with singles as the Indians built !fore a 7-1 lead. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-d~y classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content withour issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
BUY/SELL ND TICKETS That Pretty Place, Bed and EXPANDING INTERNET COMPA-Beautiful brass bed, queen size, I'm not trying to hear dat, see. 273-3911 Breakfast Inn has space available NY SEEKS PEOPLE INTERESTED with orthopedic mattress set and LOST & FOUND tor football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms IN EARNING PART-TIME OR deluxe frame. All new, never used, I can get a ragamuffin. 
ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED with private baths, $80-$115, FULL-TIME INCOME. EASY still in plastic. $235 219-862-2082. LOST ND-PU WEEKEND -OUR AM. -232-2378 Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. MONEY NO EXPERIENCE NEC-What in the hey-yall is that all PURDUE FLAG WAS LOST IN P.M. -288-2726 Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-ESSARY. CONTACT DREW AT 1992 CHEVY LUMINA, GREAT about? THE PARKING LOT ON THE 9487. 273-1998 OR BILL AT 251-1362. CONDITION. $3,500; 272-4776 
SOUTH SIDE OF EDISON ROAD. For Sale, Football Tickets, All THE 6 FT X 10 FT FLAG WAS Games 272-7233 HAND SEWN BY MY WIFE. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. PLEASE DROP OFF AT THE OBSERVER ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE OFFICE BASEMENT OF SOUTH A.M. -232-2378 DINING HALL P M. -288-2726 THANK YOU VERY MUCH 
BUY/SELL N.D. FOOTBALL TIX. HOME & AWAY.
TICKETS 
(219) 289-8048 

NO STUDENT CONVERSION TIX WANTED NEEDED NO FOOTBALL TKTS 
289-9280 Dad needs 2 tix to Stanford game! ATTENTION: Paying $50.00 per Ckrosey@mindspring.com 
ticket tor las! 3 home games ONo student conversions wa nled b 2 ND/USC TIX + AIRFARE' (219) 289-8048 
GOTO alumni.nd.edu/-ndc_satx 
SELLING ND FOOTBALL TKTS 251-1570  FOR RENT  
VICTORY TKTS BUY'SELL'TRADE ND FOOTBALL 232-0964 www.11ictoryticke1s com  All SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS http://mmmrentals.homepage com/ email:mmmrenta}s@aol.com 232-2595  

2 BR, 2nd fir. Apt. 525/mo. Along St. Joe River Incl. Water/Sec. Syst./Trash 288-2654 or 288-2788 
NICE HOME AVAILABLE. NORTH OF NO [ROSELAND] 277-3097. 
3, 4 & 5-bedroom alumni-owned homes lor rent. Please call Jason 
@ 240-0322 for homes close to campus 
WANTED 
Christian family in need of upbeat caregiver for 18-mo -old boy in our home near campus. Flex. Hours & great pay. Call Sharyl at 237-0911. 
Help! Staffer needs to rent condo/guest house/room in Pasedena, CA. General area for New Year's holi­day period (12-27 to 1-2) My son 1s marching 1n the Rose Bowl Parade' Would consider hosting your family for the usc2001 game, tickets included, ND tans only! Please email tdatnd@aoLcom or call 259­7544, a;;k for Tina. Thanks 
Computer tutor in my home. $10+/hr. Microsoft Front Page, Web design. Flex 12+ hrs/wk. Free col-fee!!! 273-0205. 
WILL BUY USED CARS CALL 272· 4776 
FOOSBALL Wanted high-level players for fun or$. 257-4441 in evenings. Ask for D 
FOR SALE 
SPRING BREAK 2001 -Jamaica, Cancun, Barbados, More. Hiring Campus Reps -2 Free Trips! Free Meals-Book by 11/3. Call 1-800·426-7710 or sunsplashtours.com. 
Yamaha MOB digital 8-track rec. minidiscs are inc $750 OBO CO qual rec. exl. Cond. -Pat 287-7369. 
1991 lzuzu Stylus. Runs Great. 105K, manual, NC, stereo. PIS. Musi sell $2200 0/b/o. 219-271-5623 or allman 3@nd edu Kate is choking. 
She just weezed in the middle of a 
laugh. Impress potential employers. Keep in contact with friends and rel-Whoa, that was freaky. atives. Student "business" cards are now step back, girlfriend. available at The boy is mine. THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center You need to give it up, I've had 631-COPY about enough. It's not hard to see, 
the boy is MINE. High-Speed Copies, Color Copies, Binding, Fax Service, R;;sum;:,s, must you do the things you do, you Business Cards, laminating & keep on actin like a too More! at THE COPY SHOP you need to know it's me, not you LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY the boy is mine. Free Pick-Up & Delivery 
PERSONAL 
no trips to the lyons arch, girl.  
What will you wish you had cap•  
lured on tape?  unless she keeps on keeping on,  
know what I mean?  
www.icecoldvideo.com  
SCORE!  
Positive K is the most underrated  
musician of our time  SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC!  

I gotta man.  I likejello.  
With whipped cream­ 
What's your man got to do wit me?  In little plastic cups  


.. 
Thursday, September 29, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Hurt dies in Toronto hotel

M's to discuss future 
experimental treatments In 1968. rain marred 

of Piniella, Rodriguez 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 

Mariners CEO lloward Lincoln plans to sit down with manager Lou l'iniclla and All­Star shortstop Alex Rodriguez after the season to talk about their futures in Seattle. 
Piniella is in his last year of' his contract and Rodriguez is eligible for free agency after the World Series. 
"We're going to sit down with Lou after the season," Lincoln said before Wednesday night's game between the Mariners and Texas. "We'll do the same thing with Alex." 
lie denied a report in the Toronto Clobe this week that said sources close to Mariners general manager Pat Gillick and Boston manager Jimy Williams already have an infor­mal agreement that Williams will be named Seattle's manag­er after the World Series. 
"That story is total non­sense. It has no basis," Lincoln said. "It really docs everyone a . dissc.rvice. Besides. Jimy Williams is under contract in Boston and we're not in the tampering business.'' 
Piniella, 57, is in his eighth year in Seattle. I le reportedly is earning $1.3 million to manage the Mariners this sea­son. 
Under Piniclla. the Mariners arc trying to win their third /\L West title. Piniella man­aged Cincinnati to a World Series title in 1990, and man­aged Seattle to division crowns 1995 and 1997. 
Piniclla has hired an agent and said he doesn't want to think about his future until after the season. 
"We're going to sit down with Lou and have a glass of' wine and see what we're going to do," said Lincoln. who said Gillick and team president C_huck Armstrong also will be at the meeting. "I think he's comfortable with that. 
"Lou's done a tremendous 
LOW 

student 
Airfares 
Euraiipasses 

More Than 100 Departure Cities 
job this season," Lincoln said. 
'Tie's done a great job of man­
aging." 

The Mariners promised Rodriguez, 25. a four-time All­Star and the first player taken in the 199~ June draft, that they would not talk contract during the season. Lincoln said in spring training that the team, if it was in contention, would not trade Rodriguez this season although there was the risk of losing him as a free agent at the end of the season. 

"We 'II talk to Alex and sec where it goes from there," Lincoln said. "I feel good about our decision in spring training. We folt the best way to keep Alex was to have a winning team and we've had a winning team. We'll sec where it goes from there." 
Seattle has lost two franchise players in the past three sea­sons. 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOI.IS 
Bob Hurt, the driver who broke his neck trying to qualify for the 1968 Indianapolis 500 and became a paraplegic, has died. 
He was 61. 
Hurt died in his sleep in a Toronto hotel room Sept. 23, the lndianapolis Motor Speedway announced Wednesday. 
At the time of his death. Hurt was fighting prostate cancer in Toronto while tak­ing outpatient treatments. 
Hurt's death ended a 32­year battle against paraly­sis. 
"He was a tough guy," said his brother, Doug Hurt, of Gaithersburg, Md. 
Hurt never accepted being a paraplegic for the rest of his life. 
Since the accident, he made trips to Russia and Sweden to undergo radical 
and also participated in spe­cial treatments in the United States. 
Born in Champaign, Ill., llurt was a star high jumper and played on two Illinois state championship basket­ball teams. 
He turned to auto racing at 19. driving modified stock cars and sports cars. 
He drove his own Ferrari to victory in the Puerto Rico Grand Prix in 1962 and competed in a Lotus 18 as well as driving USAC stock cars in 1963. 
Hurt never drove in the Indy 500. 
In 1964, he passed his rookie test but did not make an attempt to qualify. 
In 1967, Hurt qualified at 
161.261 mph, but he was bumped from the field by a fastf'r qualifier. 
Before his accident he drove in 21 champ-car races, with a best finish of sixth in the Trenton 200 in 1967. 
practice and qualifying for 23 consecutive days, so an extra qualifying day was added May 27 to fill the 
field. . Hurt was injured in the morning practice period. Hurt was taken to Metbod ist Hospital in Indianapolis where he spent nearly two months before being transferred to the Rusk Center Institute of Rehabilitation in New York City. 
During his long ordeal. Hurt never once blamed racing or lost interest in the 
sport. 
He regularly appeared at the Indianapolis 500. 
In 1999. Hurt received cancer treatment in Toronto and then was driven to Indy in time for the race. 
Survivors include his brother, Doug; and sisters Ann Defranceaux of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and Linda Andrieux of Paris. 

-

YOU'RE DRIVEN. YOU'RE TALENTED. 
ANDYOU DON'Tl<NOW SQUAT. 
Gathering information for grad school can be 
absolutely mind-boggling. At Petersons.com, you'll 
find detailed information on programs, student loan information, online practice tests and online 

-
applications. Go to Petersons.com. And un-boggle 
that brilliant mind of yours. 
PETERSONS.COM 
THOMSON LEARNING 
ONLINEAND 
~ 
IN PRINT 
V 
AOL Keyword: Peterson's 
Study Abroad 

IC:•. 
student Un1VerS8 §
rrs YOUR WOltlO. EXPLORE fT 
studentuniverse.com 
800.272.9676 

page 20 The Ob.m·ver . SPORTS Thursday, September 28, 2000 
NFL 
Mariucci puts Owens incident to rest 
A,socia tcd Pre•• 
SANTA CL/\HA, Calif. 

Steve Mariucci spoke to Terrell Owens on Wednesday for the first time since the San Francisco coach suspended Owens for 
a week. 
N o w 
Mariucci hopes he can stop lalking a b o u t Owens ­at least 


until the Owens 49ers' top receiver returns to the team following San Francisco's garnn against Arizona on Sunday. 
"lle's going to have some time to sit back and retlcct on lhe week, and I trust thal he'll come back in here full speed ahead and blend right back in," Mariucci said Wednesday. "Ilopefully we can linish this off." 
21 and ready to Party! Happy 
Birthday Erical 
Love, 
Uncle Mark 
-
--
That may be easier said than done. Mariucci "excused" Owens from team activities for a week and fined him $24,294 Monday after Owens' flamboyant touch­down celebrations in Dallas on Sunday drew widespread condemnation and embar­rassed many of his team­mates. 
The controversy doesn't appear ready to die just yet, with the 49ers' players seem­ingly divided on the appropri­aLeness of Mariucci's punish­ment and Owens remaining less than contrite about his actions. 
In a conference call with reporters on Tuesday, Owens said he didn't feel he had done anything wrong by twice running to the center of Texas Stadium and celebrating on the Cowboys· star logo. Owens also said he thought media pressure factored into Mariucci's decisions. 
Mariucci said the 49ers have been inundated with 
phone calls, letters and e­mails about the happenings, and he said public opinion was running in favor of his decision. 
"There's a lot or passionate fans out there, a lot of people who care," Mariucci said. "It sure has stirred up a lot of tension and interest nation­wide. I find that real interest­ing. We're going to get over it and get through it. and then we'll go forward." 
With Owens out of sight, the 49ers turned their minds to replacing him. Much of that responsibility will fall to for­gotten receiver J .J. Stokes, who has caught just six pass­es this season -only one from starting quarterback Jeff Garcia. 
Stokes has grown frustrated with his performances this season and lobbied for a big­ger role in the offense, but he said he was as surprised as anyone by the way in which he earned an expanded role at the expense of one of his closest friends on the roster. 
Stokes said Owens was the first person he saw at the 49ers' practice complex on Monday, and Stokes thought Owens was joking when Owens said he had been sus­pended for a week. 
"I have the opportunity to make a lot of plays this week, and I'm only focusing on that," Stokes said. "Everybody has to step up their game to make amends for (Owens' absence). It was a harsh deci­sion the coaches made." 
There seems to be a sharp divide among the 49ers as to the appropriateness of Mariucci 's punishment. Fullback Fred Beasley stopped short of condemning Owens but said he agreed with the suspension, while Stokes refused to make any comment, saying only that "Terrell is with us in spirit." 
"It doesn't really matter what any of us think, because he's the coach and it's his call," Garcia said. 
1.0VI, THI PIMTHOUII 
MLB Marlins hoping for new park 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
Florida Marlins owrrnr 
John Henry told fans 
Wednesday that he is hope­
ful a new state commission 
will help the team get a new 
ballpark. 
Henry, GM Dave Dombrowski and other members of the Marlins' front office held a hour-long meeting with 30 season­ticket holders, allowing them to ask questions rang­ing from the team's finances to how fast Marlins players were developing. 
Henry said he is "encour­aged" by the formation of the Comm unity Improvement Authority, a new panel set up by Gov. Jeb Bush tu look into finding ways to build a new stadi­um. 
He expects the panel to be formed within 4-5 weeks. 
"The only way to get new revenue streams is to get a new ballpark," Henry said. "We are watching to see what happens." 
Henry noted that as of /\ug. 31, the team lost approximately $10 million. 
lie said it will take a "community effort" to get a new facility built. 
The Florida Marlins attempt to privately finance a new stadium was deemed unprofitable earlier this year, Henry said. 

Thursday, September 28, 2000 
.. 



Calendar of Events 
Two Worlds. One Faith. 
Monday-Friday. September 25-29 
The Canonization of American Blessed Mother Katharine
103 Hesburgh Library 
Sign-up, Notre Dame Encounter 
Drexel and African Blessed Mother Josephine Bakhita 
Retreat #63 (Nov. 3-5, 2000) 
By Chandra J. Johnson 
September 25-0ctober 30 103 Hesburgh Library 
Sign-up, Freshmen Retreat #31 
On chis Sunday, October 1 at 10:00 p.m. in the Log Chapel, a Mass will be celebrated to 
(Nov. 3-4, 2000) 
rejoice the canonization ofAmerican Blessed Mother Katharine Drexel, and African Blessed 
Targeted Dorms: Alumni, Breen-Phillips, Mother Josephine Bakhita, women who used their lives as opportunities for change. On Sun­
Keough, Howard, Dillon, Lyons, McGlinn, Pasquerilla West, Sorin day, their life and ministry will be solemnized by Pope John Paul II in Rome, and parishes nationwide. Ir is a time in our Church history when two Catholic women, one black, one 
Friday-Sunday. 
white, one wealthy, one a former slave, will be honored for their meritorious and Christ-cen­
September 29-0ctober 1 
tered Catholic witness. Born a decade apart in opposite parts of the world, Blessed Katharine 
Fatima Retreat Center 
and Blessed Josephine will take their place among ocher extraordinary yet ordinary Christians 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #62 
who lived lives dedicated to the uplift and honor of the human experience. Thursday, September 28, 9:00 p.m, Born in 1858, Blessed Katherine Drexel became a millionaire at age 28. Her father, a Center for Social Concerns Coffee House 
wealthy Philadelphia banker ofAustrian and German origin, died, and left his children a trust 
Information Session on Holy Cross Mission in 
worth $14 million dollars. She used her inheritance and influence in the Catholic Church ro
Coachella, CA 
evangelize Narive and African Americans at a time when doing so Sunday, October 1. 1:30 p.m. was looked down upon, in some circles. Bur Blessed Katharine was Keenan-Stanford Chapel taught at an early age that being Catholic meant much more than 
Spanish Mass 
going to Church every Sunday. Being Catholic meant casting 
Presider: Rev. Robert Pelton, csc 
one's vision and experience beyond what was comfortable and socially acceptable. .
Sunday, October 1, 4:00 p.m. Holy Cross Hill In 1887, she began looking for missionaries to help her in her 
Sophomore Class.Mass work. During a private audience with Pope Leo XIII, he encour­Presider: Rev. Ted Hesbu.rgh, csc 
aged her to become a missionary hersel[ In 1889, after much prayer and reflection, she joined the Sisters of Mercy in Pittsburgh, 
Sunday, October 1, 10:00 p.m. 
with the intent of founding a religious order dedicated to the
Log Chapel 
Rejoice! Mass Catholic formation ofIndians and African Americans. On Febru-
A Celebration ofthe Canonization of ary 12, 1891 at age 33, she made her profession as the first mem-Blessed Mother Blessed Katharine Mary Drexel and 
ber of the Sisters of the Blessed Sacrament for Indians and Colored Katharine Drexel Blessed Josephine Bakhita 
. . ' People. Throughout her lifetime until her death on March 3, 1955, she founded 14 schools and parishes in 9 different states, including Xavier University of
Monday-Tuesday, October 2-3 
11 :30 p.m.-10:00 p.m, · Louisiana, the only Black Catholic university in the nation, and catechetical and social centers 
St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall on reservations in the rural South and in large urban areas, to insure that people of these races, Eucharistic Adoration 
who, proud of their own culture and heritage, would become leaders in the nation and the Church. She was beatified by Pope John Paul II in 1988. 
Tuesday, October 3. 7:00 p.m. 
Halfway around the world in 1869 in Sudan, Africa, Blessed Josephine Bakhita was born
Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study into a loving and prosperous East African family. At nine years old, she was kidnaped and sold 
into slavery, and suffered humiliation, torture, and mutilation for Wednesday. October 4, 10:00 p.m. 
the next several years. At age 13, she was sold to a Turkish general 

Morrissey Hall Chapel 
whose mistress administered a horrendous tattooing ordeal in 

Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
which 60 designs were cut into Blessed Josephine's breasts, stom­ach and arms. In her words, "...it was a miracle of God I didn't die." 
Blessed Josephine was sold twice more between 1883-85. She was taken to Italy as nursemaid for her mistress' child who at­tended a boarding school run by the Daughters ofCharity. It was 


Twenty-sixth Sunday 
there that Blessed Josephine began to learn about the Catholic 

in OrC;linary Time 
faith. Several years later, Blessed Josephine learned she was being sent back to Africa. She announced her intention to stay with the


Weekend Presiders 
sisters, be baptized and have an opportunity to practice her new faith. Despite her mistress' anger, with the help of the sisters and

Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Italy's prohibition against slavery, Blessed Josephine was permitted

Saturday, September 30 Mass · co stay. Baptized in January 1890, she took the name Josephine and studied for four years. On
5:00 p.m 
December 8, 1896 at age 41, she took her final vows as a member of the Daughters ofCharity.
Rev. William A Wack, c.s.c. She spent the rest of her life as a cook, seamstress, sacristan and doorkeeper. When her life story Sunday, October 1 Mass was published in 1930, she became a renowned example ofcharity and holiness. At her death at 10:00a.m. · age 78 in Italy on February 8, 1947, she lay in state for three days, as mourners touched her Most Rev. John M: D'Arcy body and prayed for her blessing. She was beatified by Pope John Paul II in May 1992. 
11:45 a.m. , . 
Two women, different cultures, different experiences, same faith. Blessed 
Rev. Thomas-V. Bednar, c.s.c-. Mother Josephine Bakhita and Blessed Mother Katharine Drexel have much to reach us. We have much to learn from them. Join us as we celebrate their lives 
Scripture Reqdings· 
and recall the memories and impact of their faith in action. All are

for this Coming Sunday 
welcome! 1st Reading Nu.ml l:·25-29 
'2nd Reading Jas 5: 1-6 
On Sunday at the Rejoice! Mass at 10:00 p.m. in the Gospd ·Mk 9: 39-43, 45, 47-48 Log Chapel, we will celebrate their cutting-edge and counter-cultural Catholic witness. 

--



page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 28, 2000 
... 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Mets clinch wild card with victory over Braves 
Before last year, the Mets' only trips eight hits and twu walks in eight Tied at l in the fifth, Sandy Martinez 
fusociatcd Pres. 
to the playoffs were in 1969, 1973, 1986 innings. l le threw 125 pitches, the most doubled off the wall in right-center for and 1988. in any of his 23 starts this season. Florida. Burnett worked the count full 
.. 
--
NEWYOHK 

For the first time ever. the New York Mets arc going to the playoffs in consec­utive years. 
Hick Hned limih~d Atlanta to four hits in eight innings and 
pinch-hitter Darryl Ifamilton singled in the go-ahead run in the fifth as the Mets beat the Braves 6-2 Wednesday night to clinch the NL wild card berth. 
/\ftcr slumping for 


the third straight Reed September. the Mets survived and will open the playoffs Oct. 4 at San Francisco or St. Louis. The NL East champion Braves start a day earli­er against the Giants or Cardinals, with the matchups depending on final records. 
Tho Mets celebrated in low-key fash­ion on the field with hugs and hand­shakes, much like the Braves did the previous day when they clinched at Shea Stadium. There was champagne waiting for the Mets in the clubhouse, though. 
Last year, New York needed to beat Cincinnati in a tiebreaker playoff on the day after the regular season was sched­uled to end. This lime, the Mets clinched with four games to spare, eliminating Los Angeles, its final wild card rival. 
A night after the Hraves beat the Mets to clinch their ninth straight division title. New York clinched the wild card by beating its rival for only the 13th time in 42 games over three years, including a 4-2 loss in last year's NL championship series. 
PICTURE YOURSELF HERE 
TONIGHT 
You never know what will develop when 1200 members of the class of 2001 mix it up. 

Heed (11-5) struck out seven and walked one. Armando Benitez allowed Andres Galarraga's leadoff homer in the ninth. 
Kevin Millwood (10-U) finished the poorest of his three full seasons in the major leagues, giving up live runs and six hits in 5 1-3 innings and forcing in the Mets' first run with three walks in the fourth. lie was 17-8 in 1998 and 18­7 last year. 
With the score 1-all in the fifth, rookie Timo Perez lined the ball into right field and stretched it into a triple. Hamilton, batting for IJerek Bell, who was hurt in the top of the inning, blooped a pitch into short center for a 2-1 lead and Edgardo Alfonzo lined the next pitch into the left-field bleachers for a two­run homer. 
Jay Payton hit an HBI single in the sixth after Hobin Ventura tagged and wen! from first tu second when former Met Bobby Bonilla was slow throwing the ball back following Todd Zeile's 11y­out to left. 
Ventura added an RBI double in the seventh off Scott Kamieniecki. 
Andruw Jones' first-inning homer had given Atlanta the lead, but Millwood walked Zeile with the bases loaded in the fourth, tying the score. 
Cubs 1, Phillies 0 

Kerrv Wood closed his comeback sea­son with eight scoreless innings, striking out 10 to lead Chicago over Philadelphia. 
Sammy Sosa singled home Wood for his 137th HBl as the Cubs won for only the sixth time in their last 26 games. 
Wood (8-7), who missed all of last sea­son following elbow surgery, gave up 
The 1998 NL Rookie of the Year ended with a 4.80 ERA, totaling 132 strikeouts in 137 innings. In his previ­ous start Sept. 22 against St. Louis. Wood walked eight in only 1 1-3 innings. 
Travis Lee, who entered the game hit­less in six at-bats against Wood with five strikeouts. had four hits off the right-hander, including a pair of dou­bles. 
Tim Worrell pitched the ninth for his third save in six chances. 
Despite the loss, Handy Wolf (11-9) finished as the Phillies' leader in wins. lie gave up one run on six hits and three walks over seven innings. striking out six. 
Wolf is the first Phillies left-handed pitcher to reach 200 innings in a season since Danny Jackson threw 210 in 1993. totaling 206 1-3 innings in 32 starts. 
The loss was the Phillies' eighth in their last 10 games. 
Wood singled to lead off the Cubs third and reached second on Eric Young's single. One out later, Sosa sin­gled. 
Cubs left fielder Gary Matthews Jr. made a run-saving catch to end the Phillies seventh and strand runners at first and second. 
Marlins 6, Expos 3 
A.J. Burnett hit an HBI triple to spark a four-run fiflh-inning and also pitched 6 2-3 strong innings to lead Florida to a win over Montreal 
Burnett (3-7} allowed two runs -one earned -three hits and 11ve walks to help Florida win for the fourth time in 11ve games. He also struck out seven as Montreal lost its fillh straight. 
" 
Enjoy dining out in a big way with juicy Chicago style steaks m town South Bend. Pull up a chair to a tender filet, 
against Tony /\rmas {7-91 bnfore burn­ing the Expos' drawn-in outfield with a drive to left-center for his first career triple. Burnett is batting .280 (7-of'-25). 
Luis Castillo then singled in Burnett to make it 3-1. Mark Kotsay walked and Cliff Floyd greeted reliever Julio Santana with an HBl single. Mike Lowell followed with a run-scoring infield sin­gle to make it 5-1. 
Armas allowed live runs, four hits and four walks in 4 1/3 innings, snapping his three-game winning streak, 
Antonio Alfonseca pitched the ninth for his major league-leading 43rd save in 47 chances. 
The Marlins tied it at 1 without a hit in the fourth. Castillo walked, stole sec­ond and advanced to third on a ground­out before scoring on Floyd's sacrifice fly. 
Michael Barrett's double set up Montreal's run in the third inning. Burnett walked three batters in the inning, including Wilton ·cuerrero to force in a run. 
Brewers 10, Reds 6 
Scott Sullivan ·s wild pitch allowed the go-ahead run to score in the snventh as Milwaukee beat Cincinnati. 
The last night game in Milwaukee County Stadium history was followed by a fireworks show. The teams close out the venerable stadium's 48-year run with a sold-out afternoon game Thursday. 
With Marquis Grissom at the plate and Luis Lopez on third with two outs in the seventh, Sullivan uncorked the Reds' 94th wild pitch of the sea<;on, tying a major league record set by 1he Texas Hangers in 1986. 
an extra thick t-bone, or our specialty, 12 oz. of USDA prime New York strip steak. Lighter options, too. 
222 S Michigan, South Bend 219-234-5200 

Sl~d (N 

dSld 


Thursday, September 28, 2000 
Faine 
continued from page 32 
Though he never played in a game. Faine served as senior John Mcrandi's backup. When spring came, Faine was thrust onto the first team. Ile joined veterans Jim Jones. John Teasdale, Mike Gandy, Jordan Black and Kurt Vollcrs and soon became the natural replacement for Morandi. 
Faine was the first member of a strong group of offensive line­men in tho Class or 2003 to see action. 
Three of the quintet (tackle Brnnnan Curtin, guard Hyan Cillis and guard Scan Milligan) are currently reserves while Neal /\mbron left school in the spring. 
Besides the obvious need for a center. Faine also belirvi~s his high school background has helped him adjust to a quicker. more physical game. 
"I was fortunate to have a good weigh tlifli ng coach [rn high schooil," Faine said. "/\ lot of offensive lin<•mcn come in that arnn't as strong. that aren't as muscular. I'm not saying I'm that muscular. But I had a pret­ty good base when I came in." 
Thus far this season, Faine has started every game. And in addition to the pounding he takes each day, Faine also feels mental anguish as. the anchor of the line. 
"There's a lot of calls for the center to make," Faine said. "We base off all or our protec­tions and make a lot of calls on the run. So it's a pretty heavy mental game." 
Last week against Michigan State, Faine sprained his ankle in the first half and struggled, according to coach Bob Davie. 
"He had some missed assign­ments," Davie said of Faine's play against the Spartans. "Rut overall, if I assess his perfor­mance [for the year]. it's been prrtty darn good." 
That includes his off-the-field life as well. Faine has switched majors from engineering to an undeclared arts and letters dis­cipline. maybe economics. His study habits have improved and he is on the verge of becoming another great Irish offensive lineman. 
Rut whether he becomes an All-American or just a solid starter, Faine will never forget those first few months last year. 
"I wish every freshman knew that it's as tough as it is," Faine said. "You're going to be away from home. You don't know anybody. You don't know who's your friend or enemy. But in the end. you find everybody's here to support everybody else." 
Irish Items: 

. The quarterback position remains open for competition. Matt Lovecchio, Gary Godsey 
and Jared Clark all took equal snaps at Wednesday's practiae, according to Davie. "It will probably be a game time deci­sion," Davie said. "I don't want it to be but we've got a long. long way to go. That thing will probably be an ongoing issue the rest of this football season." 
Despite the indecision. Davie said LoVecchio is "probably" in the lead. "Hight now it looks like Matt Lovecchio, as I've said before, has a slight edge," Davie said. "He's a little more mobile and he played pretty well with his opportunity." 

The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
-
* 
i 
r 
i 
wvfi presents... 
8 
h p 
~ a 
I 
0 0 z a 


2 
0 0 
0 5tPltM6t~30,]000 
* FEATURING: 
i North Quad
Clark 
l 
s 
r 
;p.m. •12 a.m. 
p 
h Stillwell
a 
0 
Free Food! 

0 
I Waff[ehouse
z 
Free Entertainment! 

a 
Free Stuff! 

2 
0 The Retreads 
0 
0 DJ Quantum wvfi.nd.edu 



page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 28, 2000 
Soccer 
continued from page 32 
The Last Entry 
--
Waldrum's last recruiting vic­tory of last year may prove his biggest yet, Oddly enough Watrnir was a virtual unknown as late as last winter, when most schools have already decided who they would target !'or the February signing period. 
In a case of blind luck, assis­tants Edwards and Chura stum­bled upon Warner at a Christmas tournament in Florida. There they saw a play­er. who unlikti most high-cal­iber high school play1irs, had no Olympic lfovclopmental Team experience. And she was taking thn tournny by storm. 
Warner. a lightning-quick sparkplug from New Mexico just might have benn the best player nobody had evl'r heard of. 
Because she also competed in track while in high school, Warner rwver made a l'ull-time commitment to soccer and tlrnnil'or11 went unnoticed for the vast majority of the recruit­ing period. 
The Florida tournament snrved as her coming out party. Edwards and Chura rushed back to lwadquarters with the nnws -Warner was a player they thought was !'or real and a player they very much wanted. 
Waldrum went to see Warner for himself in February after pleading with her not to sign with anyone cbc bl'f'ore he did so. By this lime Warner was h,iing dnlugnd with phone calls l'rom all over the country. I!er secret was out. 
Waldrum was a believer almost instantly. 
"She was the real deal," he said. "You just knew she was going to make an impact." 
Warner, too, needed little prodding to play in the shadow of the Golden Dome. 
" I think she always kind of wanted to come here," he said. 
Finding their niches 
Landing the recruits, Waldrum knew was only the first step. Knowing full well the hardest thing l'or freshman to do is to adjust to the college game, Waldrum decided to take, advantage of an NCM rule that allowed teams to take a foreign tour once every four years. 
In going south to Brazil, Waldrum hoped to provide his stars in waiting with a chance to mah the adjustment. The experiment was a success. 
"I think it was a great experi­ence." Waldrum said. "Amy was used to being the key player on her club teams so she had to 11\arn how to play with 10 other good players on the field at the same time." 
Warrwr was able to make the adjustment rather rapidly as wa.s Guertin who also nnjoycd the trip. 
"It was a great bonding expe­rience," Guertin said. "It gave us a good chance to get to know all of the veterans." 
Beyond expectations 
While Waldrum expected both Guertin and Warner to make an impact, he could never have imagined how good they would be in just their freshman years. 
Warner is among the team leaders in scoring and is a threat to find the back of the net every time she touches the ball. 
"She's played such a huge part in the offense," Waldrum said. "She brings a ton of ath­leticism and speed." 
Warner's ability to run forces teams to play extremely cau­tiously in their own half of the field. 
"She is so fast," Wald rum said. "She can beat you any­where from one half of' the field to the other." 
Indeed many of Warner's 

goals have been worthy of the eel an uncanny ability to juke late night highlight films. Time past a swarm of' defenders on after time she has demonstrat-her way to the net. 
While impressed by the speed of Warner, Waldrum has been equally taken with the composure demonstrau~d by Guertin. 
"She is tremendous around the goal," Waldrum said. "She has such a calmness to her." 
Though only in her first year, Guertin has played like a veteran. With an even keel nature, Guertin has scored several huge goals l'or the Irish already this season. 
Last Friday, tied with the West Virginia Mountaineers in overtime, Guertin struck for the game winner, a play must freshman just aren't supposed to be ready to make. 
'Tm not sure how many first year players could do what she has done," Waldrum said. "We never anticipatl'd how fast Amy and Amanda would impact our team." 
Obviously Guertin and Warner aren't most frcshnrnn. 
The University ofNotre Dame Department of Music Guest Artist Series presents the 




-

Ying Quartet 
Sunday, October 1, 2000 2 pm, Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum 
Tickers Required: $3 students• $6 seniors • $8 ND/SMC employees • $IO general admission Tickers available ar rhe Lafortune Box Office, (219) 631-8128 
For compltie information, visit http://www.nd.edu/-congocrs or call (219) 631-6201 

Thursday, September 28, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page25 I 
student union 
HAPPENING!!i 

-
WEEK DF SEPTEMBER i!!S -30 . 
Emmaus Kick-Off 9/25. Monday. Lafortune Ballroom 0600-0700 PM. "The Conversation" 9/25. Monday. Snite 0700 PM. Beginning East Coast Swing Club Lessons: 9/25. Monday. The Rock 0930 PM. Off-Campus Senator Elections 9/26. Tuesday. 
<

Swing lessons 9/26. Tuesday. The Rock 0830 PM. "Cafecito con leche" w/ Ray Blanco 9/27. Wednesday Lafortune Ballroom 0730 PM. Movies: Return to Me. The Godfather, Part II. The Godfather. Part Ill. 
9/28. Thursday. 101. 155. DeBartolo Return to Me. Godfather. 1030PM. Tickets: $2. 
9/29. Friday. 101. 155. DeBartolo Return to Me. 0800PM & 1030PM. Godfather II. only 0800PM 
9/30. Saturday. 101 . 155. DeBartolo Return to Me. 0800PM & 1030PM. Godfather Ill. only 0800PM AcoustiCafe. 9/28. Thursday. LaFortune Huddle 0900PM-1200AM. Los Angeles Guitar Quartet: 9/28. Thursday. Hesburgh LA 0800 PM. Swing Club Open Dance 9/28. Thursday. Lafortune Ballroom 0830 PM. Women's Volleyball 9/29. Friday. 0700 PM. Women's Soccer 9/29 Friday. 0530 PM. In-Hall Dances: 9/29. Friday. PW, Morissey, Cavanaugh, Walsh, Alumni, Fisher, Sorin, BP "Timecode" 
9/29. Friday. Snite 0800-1000 PM. 
9/30. Saturday. Snite 0800-1000 PM. Domer Run 2000 9/30. Saturday RecSports 1100 AM. Keough Chariot Race 9/30. Saturday. McGlinn Fields 1200 -0300 PM. IRISHPALOOZA 9/30. Saturday. North Quad 0500 PM. -1200 AM. In-Hall Dances: 9/30. Saturday. Farley, Pangborn, Keough, Knott, McGlinn Flipside Dunes Trip 9/30. Saturday. Library Circle 1200 PM. 
WEEK OF DCTDBER I -7 
Sophomore Class Mass 

10/1. Sunday. Holy Cross Hill 0400 PM. Saint Mary's College Pride Week 
1012 -10n ND/St. Mary's Right to Life FUTURE El/ENT§ 
10/2. Monday. Grotto 0830 PM. 
ND Glee Club 85th Reunion 
East Coast Swing Lessons 
10/8. Sunday.

10/2. Monday. The Rock 0930 PM. "Shine" 
University of Notre Dame Fall Break. 

10/3. Tuesday. Snite 0800 PM. 
1 0/14 -10/22.
Rumba Lessons 
Project Warmth begins. 

10/3. Tuesday. The Rock 0830 PM. 
10/23. Monday. csc 
Notre Dame Founder's Day 10/5. Thursday. 

Movies: High Fidelity. Chicken Run. 10/5. Thursday. 101. 155. DeBartolo 1030PM. 10/6. Friday. 101. 155. DeBartolo 0B00PM & 1030PM. 1on. Saturday. 101. 155. DeBartolo 0B00PM & 1030PM. Tickets: $2. 
AcoustiCafe. 10/5. Thursday. LaFortune Huddle 0900PM-1200AM. Notre Dame Invitational 1 0/6. Friday. 0415 / 0500 PM. Flipside Haunted House Trip 
.. 
10/6. Friday. Library Circle 0800 PM. In-Hall Dances: 10/6. Friday. St. Ed's ND vs. Stanford 10n. Saturday. 0130 PM EST Congratulations Ben Gilfillan winner of the package to Disney World and the ND -Navy football game in Orlando over fall break·. Worth $800 from Anthony Travel. 
page 26 The Observer.._ SPORTS Thursday, September 28, 2000 
WOMEN'S GOLF 
LPGA TOUR 

Belles take second in tourney 
Sorenstam taking

-
-
., 
By KATIE MILLER 
Sport• Writer 

Saint Mary's goH team took second in a 
league tournament on Wednesday. 

Following Albion College's low score of 356, the Belles' overall total was 370. Ilope College followed with a total of 378 while Kalamazoo came in fourth. 
Coach Theresa Pekarek was pleased with the results. 
"It was 11 diflicult courso and our scores were low today," Pekarek said. "We proved that we could linish first in the future. We can definite­ly play better." 
Team captain and senior Kyle Veltri placed fourth overall in the tournament with 87. the lowest Saint Mary's score. Junior Mary Clare llathaway followed Veltri with a 92. Veltri was pleased to see the team reach second place. 
"l was very pleased Lo sec where we were standing as a team," Veltri said. "I feel it's been a consistent season. "We set goals as a team at the bnginning of thti season and we are where we want. to be at second in the conl'l'rcnce." 
Both Pekarek and Veltri look forward to Saturclafs tournament at Winding Creek Golf Course. 
"Winding Creek Golf Course is fairly simple considering weather conditions," Veltri said. ''I'm pretty sure everyone will play well and maintain standings. 
"I think that we will do well. We had never seen the Medalis where we played today. We arc familiar with Winding Creek. and I expect we'll do as well. llopefully, we will finish first." 

121 South Niles Avenue (219) 234-9000 
South Bend, Indiana 46617 



aim at Webb 
Asmciated Press 
NEW ALBANY, Ohio 
Annika Sorcnstan1 can't wait. She gets her shot at Karrie Webb. 
'Tm fired up." Sorenstam said. "I don't like being in second place, and for me to have a chance to beat Karrie, I've got to put in the time and I've got Lo play some flawless golf. I really think I'm on the right track." 
The two go at each other beginning Thursday in the New Albanv Golf Classic. the second yeai· of the $1 million tournament. Last year, Sorenstam won and proceed­ed lo turn around her season. 
Despite raw. windy weath­er, she birdied six of' the last nine holes of her second round, giving her the lead she never lost. She went on to shoot 19-under-par 269 and won by three strokes over Mardi Lunn. 
It started a streak that has carried over to five victories this vear -one fewer than Webb. 
"When I came to Columbus and the way I played. that was thn best I'd played in a really long Lime," Sorcnstam said. "I realized how much I enjoyed playing well. It was so much f'un. and I just want­ed to go back to work and grind and play like this all the time, because I love being in the top spot." 
The Swede will have to work hard to defeat Webb, whoso six wins include two majors -the Nabisco Championship and the U.S. Open. Webb has earned more 
than  $1.6  million.  about  
$500,000  more  than  
Sorenstam.  

"I've really had a good year." Webb said. "I've played very consistently and I've been in contention a lot. And that's all I can ask. just to give mysnlf' as many chances as I can and try to close the deal." 
Sorenstam finished fourth at last weekend's Sal'eway Golf Championship in Portland. Ore. 
RETIREMENT 
INSURAt-fCE, MUTUAL FUNDS TRUST SERVICES TUITION FINANCING 
=»~ '~­
TIAA-CREF provides financial solutions to last a lifetime. 
Call us for).' 
Building your assets is one thing. Figuring out how those assets can provide you with a comfortable retirement is quite another. 
At TIAA-CREF, we can help you with both. You can count on us not only while you're saving and planning for retirement, but in retirement. too. 
Just call us. We'll show you how our flexible range of payout options can meet your retirement goals. 
With TIAA-CREF, you benefit from something few other companies can ofter: atotal commitment to your financial well-being, today and tomorrow. 
•Note: Availability may depend on your employer's retirement plan provisions contract Under federal tax law, withdrawals prior to age 59½ may be subject to restrictions, and may also be subject to a 10% additional tax. Additional restrictions also apply to the TIAA Traditional Annuity. 
afree
consultation _·• 
.A"­
With TIAA-CREF, you can receive:* 
• 
Cash withdrawals 

• 
Systematic or fixed-period payments** 

• 
Interest-only payments 

• 
Lifetime income payments** 

• 
A combination of these 


"Guaranteed by our claims-paying ability. 
CREF GROWTH ACCOUNT1  

1YEAR AS OF 6130/00  5 YEARS 6130/00  SINCE INCEPTION 4/29194  

CREF Growth is one uf many CREF variable annuiti~s. 
1----------------------·---.-..--------------------------------­

Ensuring the future 
1.800.842.2776
for those who shape it.'" 
www.tiaa-cref.org 
For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest. 1. Due to current market volatility, our securities products' performance today may be less than shown above. The invest­ment results shown for CREF Growth variable annuity reflects past performance and are not indicative of future rates of return. These returns and the value of the principal you have invested will fluctuate, so the shares you own may be more or less than their original price upon redemp­tion. • TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the CREF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities. • Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements. • TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co.. New York. NY, issue insurance and annuities. • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. 
• Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03 


Thursday, September 28, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
VOLLEYBALL 
Kreher serving up sensational season for Irish 

Nozv 
d appl:icar-Jo 

By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
Sports 'X1riter 
Junior Kristy Kreher has come out f'rom the shadows of' second and third in Irish vol­leyball statistics to set the pace as she has linally toppPd the list.s for Notre Dame. 
Lvnn as the statistical leader of the Irish, Krnher still gets plenty ol' advice and criti­cism l'rom hor teammates. 
"During matches we have a team policy wtrnrc people on the sidelines let us know what we're doing and what we need to do hctwr," Krcher said. "We get constant feed­back rrom tlrn tr~am. Jr I'm not pulling my w11ight nn the court, someone will let me know. It's a team effort in every game." 
As a freshman Krnhcr was named as an all-Big East Bookie as she totaled a .264 hit­ting pcrcenlag(1 with an average of 2.07 kills per game. She racked up "2.72 kills in 1999 out of' 592 attmnpts with just 85 errors for a .316 percentage, the third highest on the team, while also finishing the season with 198 digs f"or the second-highest team total. 
Krchcr rounded out 1999 by being named to tho all-Big East second team with the third highest hitting mark at .377 in the con­fornnce. 
Following her sophomore year, Kreher moved into second in Notre Dame's career hilling percentage mark with a .294 per­centage in two years. 
Following a spectacular season in 1999, Krchcr now leads the team statistically in :moo. This year Krehcr has come out on top to lead the team with 172 kills on 364 altempts with 59 errors !'or a .:no hitting percentage in the 13 matches played so far in 2000. Krchcr also leads the team ·with 106 digs. 
"It's exciting," Kreher said. "I don't feel myself as any different in this year as com­pared to past years. It's cool to know that teams will look at you and think that this is a player that we have to watch. But I don't feel that my role is that much difforcnt. I still want to go out thero and get as many kills for the team as I can and do my job for the toarn. 
"To be able to do that I need my team behind me. As long as our team is doing well, I feel that I can do well. Volleyball is such a team sport that you can't have just one good player on the team, you have to have six or even 12." 
Krchcr also topped the 1997 record of kills in a four-game match with 32 kills in the i\otre Uame versus Loyola Marymount .. match on Sept. 21. · 
She was named to the Shamrock Invitational ali-tournament team and the adidas Invitational all-tournament team, hoth played earlier in the 2000 season at the Joyce Center. 
"I think that the reason I'm getting a lot of kills is due to Denise !Bovian]," Kreher said. 'Tm used to her cunsisiency in getting me the ball. That's one of the things that ha'S helped me a lot. I give a lot of credit to my teammates and my coaches. Being pushed by my teammates in practice is one thing that has helped. Sometimes I'm up against harder things in practice than in games. 
"I want to improve in every aspect of my game. I'm struggling right now with blocking and defense, so I've been trying to get better at that in practice," Kreher said. "I want to keep improving my all-around game." 
Kreher will have her chance this weekend as the Irish volleyball team faces Villanova and Georgetown in the first Big East match­es of the season. 
"It's very exciting for our team this year. I feel that we've improved so much," Kreher said. "We've been playing such big powers across the country now and it's exciting that we can play with the top teams in the coun­try. We just have to keep battling every day." 

-~:., ~J'> 

Work in an internship ~-....~~ ~
• ...,~ Fall 2001 ~­
Study Public Affairs
• 
Fulfill Fine Arts Requirement 4 Spring 2002• 


Deadline -Nov. lO"th 

..JNasf&iagfoll ..5e.mester~Dg.ra.m 
Open to students froDl ALL Colleges 
Come to the informational meeting Monday, October 2nd 
7:30 p.m. 118 O'Sha1.1ghnessy 
Prof. Peri Arnold, Director 346 O'Shaughr1essy Peri.E.Arnolct. l@nd.edt.1 

-
\ 

-
page 28 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 28, 2000 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
BP keeps playoff hopes alive with 18-0 victory 
out of the pocket and lookingBy ANTHONY BISHOP, 
l'or a target.KATIF HUGHES and BRIAN 
With a dPspPration throw 
SHARP into th(' end zonP, three people touched the ball but only BP wide receiver Tricia 
In a game that c-ould propPI McFarland gained possnssion. 01\ll llHllll into tlw playof'fs and AnothPr f'ailr,d PAT attempt di,sLroy all hopPs f"or a posls(,a­gave Ill' a 12-0 lead. sn 11 for th1• oth1·r. lh·11P11-Brl'<'n-l'hillips nnvPr lookPcl l'hillips lll'frat,,cl hirli•y, 18-0. back aftPr this point. ThP 
Top play by buth tPa111s lit up ddens1i consistently shut down the lil'ld in a dd'ensivt, baltl11 thn explosive Farlc•y of'fons<• that was hrok1•11 Ions,, hy a l'Pw including grnat plays from big plays. Un rort u n at1'1y !'or li11ema11 Natasha l'oltor a11d 
thl, fans of Farley, the big di•f'ensive back Donna Conlon. 
plays s1,1•nwd to only bouncp AnotlH'r interception for BP in to thn hands of' th 11 Bl' by KoppPl gavn the ball back to offense. 
the offense !'or one morn late Tlw fin;l half was dcfinPd by attack . .'\f'lrr a few strong run 
strong play from the lirws of plays and a cuupln short pass­both teams. es. McFarland linally co11mict­Tlw Bl' offnnsP was l1·d by ed \\'ith Montenaro f'or the 
!111~ strong arm and swif't feet third touchdown making it 18­or q uartPrback Katie 0 with lnss than two minutes to McFarland. /\rtnr Farley go. Tlw · ref's then called the
a f'ourth down blitz, McFarland game a victory for Bl' in accor­was forced to scrambl1, and dancn to the "mercy rule." wnav1, her \Yay downl°ield The loss dropped Farley's 
nearly 40 yards before she was record to 1-3. which still caught from bt,hind insidP the leaves hope for the postsnason 20-yarcl line. The Farley squad played 
That was as far as the particularly well but were 
offense ewer got as the Farley unable to come up with a few def'nnse rngroupcd and breaks. Captain BPccu Glatz is stopp<'d the BI' drive on tlrn ?­hoping the team plays hard the 
yard li,w. rest of lhc season and will be Ill' didn't seem phasc•d by looking for some losses by 
the dnfonsive stand as they teams ahead of them in the came up big themselves with rankings. Farley's next game great pressure from their is on Sunday against Off'­
Campus.
def'nnsivc lirw. f'orcing Farley to punt. The dcfonses came up Th is victory gave Brecn­with play af'tcr play l'or several Phillips their first win of the drives until the (ind or the half. year. advancing its record to 
L11d by two long runs from 1-1-1 and keeping playoff McFarland. BP was able to hopes alive. punch in a last minute touch­The Bl' coaches attributed 
down before half time. the victory to the hard work McFarland connected with and leadership of the upper­Kelly Deckelman for a short classmen as well as their abili­pass into the back of the encl ty to create big plays on 
"I was sick of losing. I don't theme of both teams' seasons, ndly getting first downs. Even 

zone that just went past the offense and defense. 
take losing well," Greaney the defenses kept both teams though Off-Campus's defenseoutreached hands of the Farley BP returns to action on said. "We weren't sure what to in the game. The 0-0 tie was bent. it refused to break.
defensive backs. Sunday against McGlinn. 
expect from McGlinn. All we the second scoreless game Defensive backs Erin Place
The point after try was bat­

knew was that their record that both teams have been and Anna Benjamin both had
ted down. leaving BP with a 6-McGilnn 6, Walsh 6 
wasn't that strong." involved with. each starting acrobatic goal-line intercep­
0 lead going into halftime. 
There are no crazy Nebraska Said Walsh captain Melissa the season with one: Badin tions to save touchdowns.
The second half only went 

game-like overtime rules in Beiting: "We had two 10-yard against PW and Off Campus After two ties and a loss,
down hill for the Farley squad 
women's interhall football, but penalties and that made us a against Walsh. Badin desperately needs to 
as the BP defense dominated 
the McGlinn girls didn't seem little sensitive. We had to get The tie pushed Off-Campus's win their next two games tothe game. It looked al first like to mind. 
out there and refocus." record to 1-0-2 and Badin's return to the playoffs for the
Farley would make an early They huddled in excitement 
Tight end Jennifer Lynch record to 0-1-3. second straight year.comeback with quick passes after their 6-6 tie against was Walsh's wildest women on Off-Campus's physical "We are tired of ties and
from quarterback Jenny 
Walsh on Tuesday night, ecsta­
Tuesday, scoring a mid-second defense has held their oppo­losses," Badin free safety BethGeraci to several receivers. tic to have kept it so close the 
half touchdown to tie the nents to a total of six points in Himkus. "We want wins."
At about midfield. however. whole game. 
game. three games. the lone touch­After a bye week, Badinthe defensive backs from BP 
Mary Lenzini scored a touch­McGlinn hopes to build on down scored by Breen­looks to rebound against
seemed to awaken and batted 
down very early in the first the momentum generated by Phillips. Farley before closing out theirdown a couple balls until a 
half for the Shamrocks, setting the game. "We were expecting to do season against McGlinn. final interception by Gina the mood for an intense game. 
"We're not losing again this better than we had in the pre­Off-Campus is also looking to Montenaro. "I was thinking, I really hope season," Lenzini said. vious game," Off Campus co­finish the season strong in On the ensuing play. a quar­I catch the ball," Lenzini said. captain Katie Leicht said. order to also qualify for theterback switch between "Then I was thinking. holy s-. Badin O, Off-Campus 0 
"This was not a good showing playoffs.

Deckelman and McFarland set A hard-fought game on
I caught the ball." from the offense. We didn't "We need to get more out of' 
up a 25-yarcl pass play to McGlinn's key plays came Tuesday night at Stepan 
capitalize on the opportunities practice," Leicht said. "Our 

McFarland that brought BP between Badin and Off­
from Sarah Vatterott's four that we had." toughest games arc coming
within striking distance yet Campus resulted in a scoreless
completions and u great run­Badin moved the ball up and up. We have to get our act 
again. Two plays later. a tie.
ning game by quarterback down the field all day, repeat-together."
Farl«iy blitz forcnd McFarland Jody Greaney. In what is becoming the 

-
Sunda1, October 1 4am Jovce Center 
•First 300 tans receive an adidas t-shirt •Dorm with the most tans wins apizza partv 
1111 tans oresenthaue the oooonuniWto win... Autllentic llockev;ersevs, Autogranhedhockev sticks and Notre Dame hockevaooarel 
Proceeds to benefit Shawn Walsh., Head Coach at the University ofMaine 
page 29

Thursday, September 28, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

1 ·-__ _
_,,_c..,,,. 
""""'""'_....""=E!!!"""""""........,"""""""'~--_,,,,.,,.___""""""3Ei!EEEl"""""""'""""""'"'~~....,..-~~-="'3E!!!S_,,.~....,._..."""""'""........,._---m 
Come visit Jesus in Eucharistic Adoration. He too has 
been hungry, weary, lost, and lonely. He waits for you. 
"Each moment that you spend with Jesus will deepen your union with Him and make your soul 
everlastingly more glorious and beautiful in Heaven, and will help bring about an everlasting 
peace on earth. When you look at the crucifix, you understand how much Jesus loved you. 
When you look at the Sacred Host, you understand how much Jesus loves you now." 
Mother Teresa 

"The Holy Eucharist contains the whole spiritual treasure of the Church, that is, Christ 
himself... He who is the Living Bread, whose flesh, vivified by the Holy Spirit and vivifying, 
gives life to men." Vatican Council II 
"Sooner would heaven and earth turn to nothingness than would My Mercy not embrace a 
trusting soul. Let no soul fear to draw near to Me, even though their sins be as scarlet." 
Jesus to St. Maria Faustina 
Monday 1 1 :30pm -Tuesday 10:45pm, St. Paul Chapel, Fisher HaII Friday 12:00 -5:00pm, Lady Chapel, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
There is no special format, you can pray, read, write in a journal, or just sit silently. This is your special time each week to spend with Jesus, truly present in the Blessed Sacrament. For more information, or to sign up for a timeslot, please contact Mary Tarsha 4x2469 (tarsha.1@nd.edu) or Lisa Demidovich 4x0847 (ldemidov@nd.edu). 
Areyou hungry? 
Do not labor for the food which perishes, but for 
the food which endures to eternal life, which the 
Son ofman will give to you. . . I am the bread of 
life, he who comes to me shall not hunger. Jn 6: 21. 3s 
Areyou weary? 
Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, 
and I willgiveyou rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me; for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will fmd rest for your souls. 
Mc 11:28-9 

Areyou lost? I am the way, and the truth, and the life; no one comes to the Father, but by me. Jn 14: 6 
Areyou lonely? I will not leave you desolate; I will come to you. .. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be 
afraid. Jn 14= rn. 21 

-
.. 

-

... 000 SYDNEY 2000 000 
page 30 Thursday, September 28, 2000 
BASEBALL 

USA dismantles Big Red Machine to claim gold 

Catcher Pat Borders, who was spiked Associated Press at home in that first game, also had an HBI double as an exquisit<1 payback. Those hits put the upset on the finger­
SYDNEY, Australia 
tips of Sheets, an unflappabln right-han­
It took a ragtag band of minor lea­
der who goL 16 ground-ball outs in the
guers to bring down a dynasty and final­
first liight innings, setting up a pulsating
ly bring home the gold for America. 
ninth.
Led by Hall of Farner Tom Lasorda, a 
V\iith the Americans standing on tho
collection of draft picks and major­
l'ront step of' tlrnir dugout and a U.S flag
league misfits beat mighty Cuba 4-0 on 
hanging behind the bench. Shonts strodn
Wednesdav for the United Stales' first 
calmly to the mound to start the inning.
Olympic go'ld medal in baseball. 
lie got Cuba's Jirsl two hitters swing­
The team known as the Big Hed 
ing -Luis Ulacia thrPw his hnlmct at
Machine got only three hits off Ben 
the sidu of his dugout after going down
Sheets, then had to stand and watch in 
f'or the spcond out.
disblilief' while he and his teammates 
When Neill mack a sliding catch ol'
rolled in Lhe dirL as part of their joyous 
Yasser Gomez's 11y in lcl"t field l'or lhc
celebration. 
final out, Shnets !'nil to his knees and
"Cuba is supposed to be the best base­
raised his arm in celebration as players
ball team in the world," shortstop Adam 
streamed toward him l'or a huddln on
Everett said. "We just proved we are 
the mound.
when it counts." 
Soon, they piled up near the dirt at
The long-awaited matchup or basebatl 
third and Lasorda -wnaring a U.S. flag
archrivals was remarkably free of the 
over his left shoulder, huggnd his coach­
dust-ups and disputes that have colored 
es while the players took a victory lap. 
virtually all of the other games they've 
"l can't believe how great I feel 1" 
played through the years when Cuba 
Lasorda shouted as he ran off the field.
won the only other baseball gold medals 
The Cubans sat stunned in their
at the 1992 and 1996 Olympics. 
dugout, knowing their dynasty was
Also unlike those other games, this 
done.
time the United States won -and won 
The best team in international base­
convincingly. 
ball had its 21-game winning streak
"They come out and try to intimidate 
snapped with a loss to the Netherlands
you," Everett said. "That's not our 
during the tournament, then had its hold
game. We don't come out and play that 
on the gold broken by its biggest rival. 
way. We just come out and beat you." 
The long-awaited matchup had the
They found all sorts of dramatic ways 
trappings of a seventh World Series
to win: two walk-off homers and an 
game -and all the finality. Flashbulbs
eighth-inning grand slam. Their only 
twinkled around the stadium as the U.S.
loss was 6-1 to Cuba on Saturday, a 
team stood on the first base line and the
game remembered for angry exchanges 
Cubans assembled along the other one
and cleared benches. 
for pregame introductions.
There were no dust-ups this time, no 
Lasorda, who wanted to beat Cuba for
late-inning dramatics. Right from the 
the exiles in Florida, walked over and
start, it was no contest. 
shook the hand of manager Servio
Mike Neill hit a first-inning homer as 
Borges in front of the plate.
the Americans cranked it up early 
Moments later, the Americans spilled
instead of late. Ernie Young -at the cen­
out of the dugout after Neill's tension­
ter of Saturday's bench-clearing inning ­

USA pitcher Ben Sheets celebrates after recording the final out in a 4-0 victory breaking homer in the first -his second
more than got even with a bases-loaded over Cuba in the gold medal game. single. big homer of the tournament. 
WRESTLING 
USA's Gardner upsets Russia's Karelin to win gold 
president Juan Antonio Associated Press 
Samaranch, who had come to present Karelin with his fourth SYDNEY, Australia gold medal -the medal he 
Hulon Gardner did the will never get. unthinkable. lie beat the "What does this mean? He unbeatable. lie proved that just beat the best wrestler in Alexander Karelin isn't perfect the history of wrestling -a -and he won a gold medal wrestler who had never been that virtually nobody in the beat," U.S. national Greco­world thought he could win. Homan coach Steve Fraser 
Gardner. an American with said. no major title to his name, The upset was so stunning neviir a world medalist, ended that virtually no one in the Karelin's string of three crowd in the Sydney Exhibition 
-· 
Olympic gold medals and the llall, outside of Gardner's Hussian's 13-year unbeaten immediate family, could strnak by winning the Olympic believe it. Nor could Karelin, super heavyweight wrestling who. Gardner said. "Mumbled gold nwdal 1-0 on Wednesday. a few words at me in Hussian 
"When did I think I could toward the end I don't know 
beat him? About 10 minutes what he said. ago," Gardner said. "I kept "lle's so big and nasty, it's saying, ·1 think I can. I think I like a horse pushing you," can.' ll ut it wasn't until it was Gardner said. ''I'm not as 
· ov11r that 1 knew I could." strong as him, not even close. I 
Kurclin is universally consid­knew if I let him push me ered the greatest Greco­around, get even two or three Roman wrestler of all time, a points on me, it was over." counter Karelin's dreaded lifts wouldn't be outmuscled by a to throw Gardner around in man who had never lost in But Gardner, a former and relentless pressure. That man whose last loss of any the first two minutes but international competition, who University of Nebraska he even expected to "have kind came in the 1987 Soviet couldn't. Gardner stayed had not conceded a point in 10 wrestler. who walked onto the some fun with Karclin." championships. chest-to-chest, shoulder-to­years. football team but quit to wres­Gardner, his chest spilling Karel in, whose throwing shoulder, never letting Karclin 
And Gardner beat him. stun­tle full-time, said beforehand out of his tight blue U.S. sin­skills are so renowned that he get leverage or a chance to ning a crowd Lhat included IOC that he had a strategy to g!e t, proved early that he has a lift named for him, tried toss him to score points. 



Thursday, September 28, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 31 
51 Flair 
-~ 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
WOVLD WE HAVE A GOOD 

I DON'T KNOW. SHOULD 
TIME? WOULD THIS RUIN A
I ASK HIM TO THE DANCE? 
WOULO HE EVEN SAY YES? 
POTENTIAL FRIENDSHIP? 

I DON'T WANT TO MAKE 
WOULD IT EVEN ALL BE 
WOOTH IT?

A FOOL OF MYSB.f 
Fox TROT 
HOW Do I

HOW Do 1 
LOOK IN THtS

LOOK IN THIS 
oNE?

SWEATER? 
TYLER
THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 
I 

1) 
You dQte go Me. to donc.c.? , \ I • 

It's okay to be a little nervous about the first 
SYR. 

,;:, 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
59 Skip 60 Electronic game pioneer 61 Where to wear 
a genouillere 62 Gets the picture 63 Conviction 
DOWN 

1 Abbr. in many org. names 2 Carrier to 54-Down 3 Actress Ward 4 Having three parts 5 Clip alternative 6 Follower of tracks, maybe 7 Moving 8 Stitch target 9 Novelist Morrison 
10 Souffle flavorer 11 It makes a row 12 Bull markets 
Puzzle by Greg Staples13 Like some prices 
31 Letter on some
19 Founder 

college jackets 21 "How_!" 
33 Move after a 24 Fireplace site pirouette, 
perhaps named after an 34 Club Amazon 
36 High points 26 Bikini tryouts 37 N.Y.C. subway 
40 Fit to be lied 41 Mean files 43 Abbr. after a 29 Ancient name Romans spoke 
44 Sweet grape 
it 
used in 

30 Fix winemaking 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name Address -------------------------~ 
City _______ State ___Zip_____ 
HOROSCOPE 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 
DAY: Marcello Mastroianni, Brigitte 
Bardot, Gwyneth Paltrow, Moon 
Unit Zappa, Erik Comas 
Happy Birthday: Put your best foot forward this year, and you will have outstanding success. With your good instincts for making choices, you can excel professionally if you are willing to put yourself on the line. Put all your knowledge, dedica­tion and hard work into play, and you will see just how far you can go. Your numbers: 4, 15, 22, 29, 37, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Don't turn down any invitations. You will attract love interests if you get out. Your fun-loving approach to life and youthful nature will be admired by those of all ages. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will be emotionally upset. Don't expect your mate to do things for you, and you can spare yourself a lot of anguish. Do things that will make you feel better about yourself. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Criti­cism will be devastating. It is best to do your own thing. You should socialize only with individuals who have been loyal and trusting friends. You need positive support, not negativity. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Con­sider making a career change that will involve dealing with homes or services or items for the home. Look into the possibility of starting your own business. 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Double­check your house before you go out. Problems with gas, oil or water may disrupt your routine. Someone you live with will be irritable. It is best to do your own thing and leave him or her alone. 00 
Birthday Baby: You are, charming, intuitive and always trying to please. Your dedication and loyalty will bring you popularity and an impeccable reputation. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 2000 Universal Preso Syndicate 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You'll have trouble handling the innuen­does of your friends and relatives. You can accomplish_ great things if you put your efforts mto your career and not into secret affairs. 000 
LIBRA .(Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Your contributions will enhance your rep­utation. Your intellectual approach will be well-received, but don't let others talk you into making a finan­cial donation that you can't afford. 
000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will have demands put on you at work and at home. Try to be patient and do what's necessary as quickly as possible. There is no point in argu­ing or trying to receive help from 
otli.ers.000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You should be on the road. Trav­el will be in your best interests, regardless of whether it is for busi­ness or pleasure. An adventure will result in added knowledge. 0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Don't rely on someone else to pay your way. You need to clear your debts so that you can start over. Your moneymaking ability is beginning lo turn around again. 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Your partner will overreact if you have to spend too much time at work. Don't back down, but don't fuel the fire. Let the frustration spill out, and then do something nice for him or her. 000 
1 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Underhanded tactics may be present if you trust an unreliable colleague. It is best to work diligently on your own for the time-being. Keep your thoughts to yourself. 000 

DON'T WORRY. HE'S 
PRO8ABLY ASKING HIMS8.F THE SAME QUESTIONS 
ABOUT YOU 
HOW DO l LOOI< WITH NEtTHEI< 
SWEATER? 
I 
,..r 
TOM KEELEY 
KNOW, IF I HAD 3 S OF UND~WEAR DN'T HAVE TO DO 
BILL AMEND 
GLAD To 
BE oF 
VICE. 


46 Count with a keyboard 
52 Frigid finish 47 Sacks, so to 
53 Sweater

speak 54 See 2-Down 
49 Win category in the W.B.A. 55 Samovar 
50 Coleridge work 56 John 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 They may be out on a limb 6 After the hour 10 Have no truck 
with 14 On the ball 15 Capital captured 
by the Germans 
4/9/40 16 Bishop of Rome 17 Sylvester's 
"Rocky" co-star 18 Most close 20 Plan 8 22 "When,,you get 
(parent's reply) 23 Russian retreat 27 Formed 
fuzzballs. 30 Kind of needle 32 In the thick of 
33 Denizen of the deep 35 Place for bacon 36 Airplane maneuverer 38 Guitarist Paul 39 A toddler may go on one 41 Lincoln picture site 42 Get ready for a comeback tour 43 Doesn't hold back 
45 Captain Hull, known as "Old Ironsides" 
46 Maintenance mate 48 Football play 54 Act of betrayal 57 Gen. Powell 58 Enchanted prince, perhaps 
-----~-~--­

.. 

David vs. Goliath 
U5i1 's Rulon Gardner defeated Russia's Alexandre Kareline, ending his 13-year 
unbeaten streak. 

PORTS 
page 30 


WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Frosh Guertin, Warner making immediate impact 
By KEVIN BERCHOU 
Sports Writer 

. 
Oflcntimes recruiling in college sports is a bit like playing the lottery. A coach will target a select group of players he thinks will best help his team. before sitting and waiting. hoping his efforts pay off. That being the 

... 
case, Notre Dame women's soccer head coach Randy Waldrum hit the jackpot when he took to the recruit­ing trails last year. 
This year's fresh­man recruiting class has been nothing short of sensational. 
The likes of first-year players Amanda Guertin and /\my Warner 


have combined to produce a pot,rnt scoring tandem that has allowed an Irish team that was supposed to rebuild to instead remain a national power. 
The Problem 

When Waldrum and his assistants, Amy Edwards and Barb Chura began recruiting in the summer or 1999 they knew lhey were facing a formidable task. 
Knowing that the coming year would be their last with All-Americans such as LaKeysia Beene, Jenn Grubb and Jenny Strcifer, the coaches knew they nf\Cded nothing short of a blockbuster recruiting class. 
The pressure was squarely on the coaches to find the players that could make a seamless transition to the col­lege level. players who could make an immediate impact. 
Waldrum's recruiting strategy is like 
that of many of his counterparts. He divides the country into four regions and assigns his assistant coaches to chart two of those sectors apiece. After Edwards and Chura have done much of the preliminary work, Waldrum steps in to do the majority of the offi­cial recruiting, visiting the players while trying to steer them in the direc­tion of Notre Dame. 
"Amy and Barb do such a great job," Waldrum said. " I give them a lot of credit." 
The First Step 
Waldrum needed little help in land­ing one of the first major recruits of the class of 2004. Indeed Waldrum had his eyes on Guertin for almost five years. Guertin hails from Grapevine, Texas, which is close to Waldrum's home. Always on the lookout for tal­ent, the Irish coach kept tabs on Guertin throughout her high school 
career. When it came time to decide whether or not to officially recruit Guertin, Waldrum had 110 doubt of her abilities. 
"It was a no-brainer," he said. "I considered her the best player coming out of Texas." 
But recruiting a player is only half the process. · 
After the player has heard the sales pitch the decision his hers alone to buy the product. For Guertin the purchase was easy. 
''I've kind of always had a thing for Notre Dame." Guertin said. "When Coach Waldrum came there from Baylor that just kind of made things perfect for me." 
The cooperative, eager Guertin was Waldrurn's first recruiting coup of the season. The freshman was also pur­sued by national powers such as Stanford and Santa Clara. 
see SOCCER/page 24 
FOOTBALL 

Faine living up to expectations in second year 
By TIM CASEY Assistant Spom Editor 
Jeff Faine felt the pain. 
Around this time last year, as a frnshman, Faine sat 011 the bench during games. was get­ting knocked around on the practice field and struggled in the classroom. 
Not exactly what the high school All-American anticipat­ed. 
"For the first half of t!ie Jirst semester [last year!. I didn't think I had to study," Faine said. "When that first test came out..." 
Just say ho studied after that. For Faine, currently Notre Dame's starting center. receiv­ing the grade on the exam was the culmination of' a rocky freshman campaign. 
lie arrived here with all the typical honors: first-team All US/\ Today, consensus top 100 national prospect, All-State selection. But like many of' his teammates, Faine had second thoughts about his college choice during summer practice. 
"Two a days are not fun," Faine said. "Every day I came home {to his dorm! wanting to go home. I was everything com­ing in, then when we were hem with just the freshmen, I was still everything. When the lirst · day of pads came, with the var­sity coming back, I went to the back of the line." 
lln did not stay there for long.

... 
see FAINE/page 23 


vs. Seton Hall vs. Pittsburgh Friday, 5:30 p.m. Friday, 7:30 p.m. 
SPORTS 'ti 
at Alma Sunday,noon
ATA 

vs. Villanova Golf Friday, 7 p.m. at Hope College 
f!J 
Saturday, tba 
GLANCE 




