

Wavin' the flag 
Home again
Edward Courtney is known lo many for his 
The Irish face Stanford Saturday back in the 

Friday
dedication to a post along US-3 I. Find out 
house the Rockne built. See a complete preview 
more about him inside. 
of the game inside. 
OCTOBER 6, 
Scene . page 18 
Irish Insider 
2000 

VOL XXXIY NO. 34 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
OUT FOR A WHIRL 


Students react to study day situation 
By lAURA ROMPF 
Assistant News Edicor 

For the past two years, junior Patrick Brennan has enjoyed having four consecutive study days before a five-day week of stressful finals. Brennan said he was able to prepare himself thoroughly for his tests and also had time to spend with friends before leaving for Christmas break. 
"Finals are the most stressful time of the year," Brennan said. "I feel we need enough time to pre­pare." 
However, for the 2001 fall semester, students may no longer have four consecutive study days. Because of a rule set by the Academic Council, the school year cannot start before Aug. 22. If a normal final schedule were used for the 2001 cal­endar, finals would not be completed until Dec. 
21. Because this date is so close to Christmas, the Academic-Council has suggested a new finals week schedule. Classes would end on Tuesday, Dec. 11, 2001 and two study days would follow on Wednesday and Thursday. Friday and Saturday would be finals days followed by another study day on Sunday and then three consecutive days of finals. 
Several students agree with Brennan, saying they need a transition time between the end of classes and finals and thus do not like the pro­posed schedule. 
"I will miss four consecutive study days," said junior HJ Roberts. 'Tm sure a lot of engineers use all four days to study. I'm going to miss the tran­sition day to relax. Last year the night before study days was one of the most fun nights because I didn't have to worry about studying just 
see STUDY/page 4 
Pax Christi hits crunpus to promote 01ilitary spending cut 
By TIM LOGAN 
Senior Staff Writer 
A young woman dressed as a clean-shaven Uncle Sam looks up at a 27 -foot inflatable bar graph representing United · States defense spending. 
And while Uncle Sam boasts about American military supe­riority, her counterpart, Shawna Farabaugh, describes our nation's less impressive rankings in categories like infant mortality and education. 
This was the scene Thursday afternoon in O'Shaughnessy's Great Hall, where Pax Christi held a demonstration calling for those positions to be brought a little closer together. 
"We can't have national secu­rity without quality education and health cam for all our citi­zens," Farabaugh said. 
The event was part of the Pax Christi "Bread Not Stones" bus tour, a 30-city journey across the country to raise awareness of military spending and pro­pose a 15 percent cut in our nation's defense budget. 

Thursday, the bus came to Notre Dame. 
The group gave two presenta­tions and an acoustic concert, in O'Shaughnessy's Great Hall. After the presentations, the bus riders, along with Notre Dame Pax Christi members and inter­ested onlookers, held a talk on Catholic Social Teaching and 
U.S. military spending. 

The event illustrated the $271 billion that the government spends on defense each year with a big ini1atable bar graph. in scale with the defense bud­gets of China, Russia and our other "potential adversaries" ­North Korea, Libya, Sudan, Syria. Cuba, Iran and Iraq. According to figures from the General Accounting Office, U. S. military expenditures double what all of those countries spend, combined. 
This, according to Farabaugh, gives good insight into our pri­orities as a society. 
"It's like the national check­book," she said. "You can tell a lot about a person by looking at their checkbook. They spend money on things that are important to him. What we choose to prioritize in our fund­ing says a lot about what we value as a nation." 
The group wants America to change its spending priorities, cutting 15 percent of our defense budget and putting the money into programs for edu­cation an<l health care. They said that money could provide health coverage for all 11 mil­lion uninsured children in this country, completely fund Head Start and hire 200,00.0 new teachers nationwide. 
"What we're trying to do is get people to recognize what's possible with only a 15 percent cut in military spending," Farabaugh said. 
The cuts would not signifi­cantly diminish our military capabilities, the group said, pointing to waste that could easily be prevented. 
"We'll still have the strongest military in the world," said Eric LeCompte, leader of the bus group. 
The "Bread Not Stones" 
see PAX CHRISTI/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, October G, 2000 

INSIDE COLUMN 



Put yourself on the line 
There's no day but today. 

That's one of the refrains in the musical "Hent." Throughout the show, the characters search for that which eludes them -happiness. Ycl they're afraid lo lake the actions that might deliver happiness. 
Roger. for example, is des­
perately in love with Mimi, 
but because his previous 
girlfriend committed suicide, 
he doesn't want to risk going 
through the pain of another 
broken relationship. So he 
mopes along, wishing he 
could be with Mimi, too 
frightened to tell her his true 
feelings. 
Too often, I think most of 
us follow Roger's lead. 
We say all we want out ol' 
life is to be happy, but then 
let cold feet prevent us from 
going af'ter that goal. It's so 
much safer to settle for a state or semi-content­

ment rather than risk whatever fragile peace we 
might have by aiming for something a little bet­
ter. 
Ii' lhings am going well. why should I risk los­
ing that by putting myself on the line'? Sure, I 
might wind up being the happiest person in the · world. But what if I fail? 

I've always thought I would love to do a year or 
two of service before moving inlo the 
"real world" and getting a job working for a 
newspaper. But now that I'm actually a senior, 

it's scary. Maybe I won't be able to find a job as a 
sports reporter after taking a year off or writing. 
I mean, I might suddenly forget how to form a 
sentence. I might not remember that a basketball 
team plays five people at once or that a touch­

down equals six points. Maybe editors will throw 
my application out the window when they don't 
see any articles published within the past year. 

Maybe I would be better off just taking the first 
newspaper job that comes along. At least I'll be 
assured of a paycheck coming in. 
Or maybe I'm just paranoid. 

Down the road, I know I'll regret not taking the 
chance to volunteer or travel when I was young. 
I won't be able to pick up and move across the 
country or around the world when I'm 40 years 
old with a husband, kids and a stable job. 

It's not just seniors either. In one way or anoth­
er, we're all afraid to put ourselves on the line. 
We're too timid to let our true feelings be 

known. Telling someone that you see him or her 
as more than a pal might result in a great rela­

tionship, but it also might strain the friendship if 
the feelings aren't mutual. So we wait in silence 
for Cupid to come along and create a romance. 
We're too comfortable to venture outside our 
circle of friends and meet someone new, espe­
cially a person of another race. ft could be the 
chance to get familiar with a different culture 
and learn about experiences different than our 
own, but making the first move is too awkward. 
So we complain that race relations are strained 
at Notre Dame, meanwhile continuing to sit at 
our segregated dining hall tables. 

By looking at the potential downfalls instead of 
the upsides, our anxieties cripple us. Just 
because life isn't terrible doesn't mean we 
shouldn't try to make it better. Perfect bliss 
might be out of reach, but it's a worthy goal. 
Take a chance. 
There's no day but today. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene 
Kare Nagengast Amanda Greco Maribel Morey Graphics 
Scott Brodfuehrer Jose Cuellar 
Sports Production 
Noah Amsradter Karie DcMent Viewpoint Lab Tech Pac Kelley Erne,to Lacayo 

The Ohmver (USPS ~99 2-4000) i, rubli,h,d Monday ,hrough Friday exn~pt during cx:im and v2.cation pl".'riods. Th~ Obs~rver is a memb~r of thie .'U:ioci.ucJ Prc.u. All rcprodu'-1ion rights arc reserved, 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 


UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA 
Hospitals ban rape contraception 
PHILADELPHIA 
Many Catholic hospitals across the nation are not discussing contraceptive options with rape victims brought into their emergency rooms, according to a recently published University of Pennsylvania study. Despite the nationwide standard of mentioning contra­ceptive options when discussing treatment with these patients, the results of a Penn pilot study -published in the September issue of the American Journal of Public Health -showed that some Catholic medical centers prohibit the discussion, prescription and distri­bution of emergency contraception in the treatment of rape victims. Women treated at these hospitals "think they have gotten all the standard medical care and in fact they have not," said Jon Merz, a faculty member at Penn's Center for Bioethics and senior author of the study. "Women who have been traumatized cannot make an inquiry, and failure to tell them [about differ­ent options] is abandonment." Catholic theology upholds birth control as equivalent to abortion. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
Foundation grants $250,000 to Saint Mary's ND team victorious in keg rolling relay Oct. 5, 1990 Oct. 2, 1973 
Saint Mary's was awarded a $250,000 challenge grant The first annual Keg Holling contest between Notre Dame from the Knight Foundation of Akron, Ohio, to implement and Purdue University ended in a hard-fought-for victory a comprehensive project aimed at attracting, cultivating for Notre Dame. The struggle consisted of' runners pushing and retaining highly-qualified faculty. Saint Mary's was along mower type contraption from Logansport to one of only 25 private liberal arts institutions invited by Lafayette, Ind. Notre Dame team's spring-relay stratcb,y, the foundation's "Excellence in Undergraduate Education" using cars to pick up and deposit runners at their positions. program to submit project proposals. outstripped the Purdue runners. 

NEW YORK UNIVERSITY 
Top labor leader bashes NYU 
NEW YORK 
AFL-CIO President John Sweeney said Wednesday that New York University has been arrogant in its dealings with local labor organizations and may be breaking the law in its fight against graduate assistant unionization. "NYU is saying it's OK to treat some employees one way and other employees another way," Sweeney said at a rally of more than 500 union supporters at Judson Memorial Church. "NYU is saying it's OK to break the law when it is convenient for them." The statement about breaking the law alludes to grievances the United Auto Workers have filed with the National Labor Relations Board [NLRB] against NYU. The union contends the University's use of e-mail to inform the community about the GA union was against the law. Sweeney's comments come as NYU's clerical workers union negotiates a new contract with the University. The union, Local 3882, is demanding an 8 to 10 percent wage increase, new health and safety grievance procedures and a "closed" union shop. 
Compiled from U-Wire re11orts


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
JMU sophomore loses battle with bulimia 
IIARRlSONHURG, Va. "It had been a struggle for Mall complaining of extreme stomach A James Madison University sopho­pain related to the eating disorder,
years. She definitely wanted 
more died of bulimia-related condi­Nixon said. tions at the University of Virginia to get better. " Alone in her car, George remained Medical Center early Friday morning. on the phone with her parents who 
Leslie George, 19. of Alexandria. called 911 , and George was taken to
Lisa Nixon
spcnl more than six hours in surgery Rockingham Memorial Ilospital.

George's friend
for sepsis, an infection caused by An emergency transfer lo U Va. stomach toxins that leaked into her began about 4 p.m. last Thursday, abdominal cavity, according to her George was fully aware of her eating Mr. George said. Doctors at HMI I had father, Ron George. disorder and wanted to improve her difficulty stabilizing her, and George 
George suffered from bulimia and health. arrived at U Va. by helicopter at 7 anorexia nervosa for four years. Mr. ult had been a struggle for years," p.m., Mr. George said. George said. She was once hospital­Nixon said. "She definitely wanted to After being restabilized again at U ized for the eating disorder in her get better." · Va., George remained on the operat­sophomore year of high school. Since George had a counseling appoint­ing table for more than six hours until that incident, George tried to treat the ment for her eating disorder sched­her death. disease with medicine and counsel­uled for Monday. George was in the Ilonors Scholars ing. On Sept. 27. George called her par­Program studying business adminis­
Sophomore Lisa Nixon, a friend of ents in Alexandria from her car in the tration and a new member of the George's since high school, said Wal-Mart parking lot at the Valley Sigma Sigma Sigma sorority this year. 


The AccuWeathere forecast for noon, Thursday, Oct. 5. 
O 2000 AccuWe,ther, Inc. COI.D W~RM srATION.ARY Prt'Uill'!: 
® © D D D D D D 
High Low Shower• Rain r . .,o,m ¦ J:iurrle ¦ lco Sunny 1'1. Ck>udy Cloudy
S"= 
V..,M•!Xl'lllfldP,_s 
Atlanta 81 59 Las Vegas 86 64 Portland 80 49 Baltimore 79 53 Memphis 66 50 Sacramento 87 55 Beston 67 53 Milwaukee 44 31 St. Louis 56 38 Chicago 53 34 New York 74 56 Tampa 88 72 Houston 82 66 Philadelphia 78 53 Wash DC 80 55 


Friday, October 6, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Author, aluIDnus relllinisces at 'flag raisers' book signing 
By ANDREW THAGARD News Writer 
James Bradl'ey's book "Flags of Our Fathers," a Ne,-v York Times Best Seller grabbed not only the attention of the Notre Dame community at Tuesday's book talk and signing, but also of Steven Spielberg who recently bought the movie rights. 
Bradley, the son of one of the "nag raisers" at Jwo .Jima, reflected on the experiences he discovered while researching and writing his book. 
"[My Dad I was a good man, he loved his fam­ily and was .devoted to the Church, [but] we didn't see him as a hero," hP said. 
Although Bradley and his family knew that his father was part of the famous lwo Jima "flag raising" photo -the most reproduced image in photography -Bradley, Sr., rarely rel1ected on his World War II experiences. 
"l just saw some guys struggling with a pole and l jumped in to give them a hand," Bradley l'requently recalled his father saying. 
llowever after his death, Bradley discovered tlrnr£' was more to the story than his father led him to believe. 
"[These events) became more alive for me after my Dad's death. I was allowed to think about them." he said. 
After the funeral. Bradley discovered three cardboard boxes in his father's office. "We were surprised to find that Dad had saved 50 years of memories of Iwo Jimo [within those boxes)," he said. 

From these documents, Bradlev learned that 
his father  was awarded the Navy Cross for  
lleroism.  
"My nad  was  able to keep it a  secret from  

his wife and family for half a century," Bradley said. 
This discovery led him to hegin contacting surviving marines and their families present at Iwo Jimo during the 36 day battle. 
As he n1searched, Bradley was surprised to find how little was known of the nag raisers. 
"Nobody knows who these guys are. You can walk around the monument [at Arlington National Cemetery] all day and not find their names," Bradley said. 
The nag raising marked the beginning of the vvorst battle in the history of the U.S. l\farines. The Marines battled 22,000 Japanese troops entrenched ln 16 miles of underground tunnels on a five mile island. 
Bradley's father's company suffered 84 per­cent casualties. 
"l\ly Dad probably held, in his arms, 200 guys who died at lwo Jima.... It's something you want to forget," he said. 
However Bradley was quick to point out the good produced from the battle and the flag raising photo it produced. . 
"The beauty of this photo has become that these guys .. , are us, ordinary Americans.just doing their duty," he said. 
"We have a chance to be ordinary heroes to our families 1 friends and community too," Bradlev said to the audience. 
Bradiey, who attended Notre Dame, holds a degree in Eastern Asian history. 

TONY FLOYD /The Observer James Bradley spoke to an audience at Hammes' Bookstore about his father's experience In lwo Jima before signing the book he authored. 

COLONY PLAZA RESORT HOTEL ORLANDO 

~ 

.,~~·
~~ 


so,;
$55.00+ Tax (l -4 Persons) 
1-800-821-0136 Reservations 

LOCAn:o JlJST MTNUTES FROM THE CITRUS BOWL. 
Deluxe kitchenette roo11,s, large swimming pool, chiJdre11·s wading pool, fitness room, cable tv with HDO, restaurant and loonge on property and free parking. 

11100 W. Colonial Drive Orlando West/Ocoee, FL 34761 

' 
l 



Dalloway's new clubhouse opens 
like the feel of it." 
The Oubhouse will have limited hours today from 12 p.m. to 5 p.m., and will serve a portion of what the normal menu will be. 
"This week is a 'soft opening'," Kirwan said. "We'll have limited offerings until we get everyone up on schedule and trained." 
"The mentality of this weekend is to give you a chance to come in and peek," Kirwan said. "We're trying to get it open and let folks come in and see it." 
The Oubhouse was built in con­junction with the new Welcome Center that has been operational since late in September..The new structure was added to the Master Plan when concerns about the location and structural stabili­ty of the old Dalloway's Coffeehouse arose. One of the goals of the project was to main­tain the look and feel of the old building while making the neces­sary improvements. 
"The important thing people ask is if it sticks with the theme and mission of the old club­house," Shaffer said. "It does." 
When fully operational, the Clubhouse will serve mainly as a coffeehouse for students and staff. Both Shaffer and Kirwan explained that. the design of the building and planning of the menu were focused on a coffee shop atmosphere. 
In addition to that function, however, the building will be available for use by student groups. Shaffer explained that when students are on campus, the building may only be reserved by students for use. 
"It is a student building," Shaffer said. "It's to be used for students only. Only on breaks can other groups reserve the build­ing." 
A grand opening ceremony is scheduled for Nov. 10 during the fall meeting of the College's Board of Trustees. There is also a cere­mony scheduled for the opening of the Welcome Center during that meeting. 
Normal business hours of 11 
a.m. to 11 p.m. will begin on Monday, but the full menu may not be available for about a week. 
By MOLLYMcVOY Saint Mary's Editor 
Another step in the Master Plan announces its completion today when the new Dalloway's Clubhouse opens its doors for the first time. 
"Everyone is always excited 
about a new place," said Teresa Shaffer, assistant director of stu­dent activities. "In addition to the students, I hope there is also a lot of faculty and staff that come over to eat and hang out." 
'Tm excited," said Kevin Kirwan, the director of dining ser­vices. "(Dalloway's] has a neat look to it, and I think people will 
~ 


1 IL--,,---2~3_3_,,_t_O_~_Q__ 
end's Newest Italian Restaurant 
Family Owned Tradition 
Original Family Recipes 
235 s. Michigan St. South Bend, In 46601 www.catalinos.com 

dine in/carry-out reservations recommended 
DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND'S FINEST ITALIAN DINING 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music Faculty Artist Series pt"esent5 

RESCHEDULED 
Ticletsrequirod: $3 students; $6 ,eniors; $8 ND/SMC employee,; $JO general odmwion Ticket, are avoilable of the Lafortune Bax Office, !219) 631·8128. 
For more information, pleo,e coll 12191631-6201 or visit our w.b ,~, of www.nd.ed.rcongaers · 
J~in the NEW TRADITION 
l --~ -~-----·-------··-----­
page 4 

Study 
continued from page l 
yet." 
Bobcrts also said he isn't looking forward to taking finals on a Saturday. 
"I can't imagine taking a test during the weekend." he said. 
Tiffney Colon. a junior, said she doesn't want finals week to last longer than it has to. 
"I think people need time to relax and take a break before the completely strossful week of finals," she said. 

Orientation committee and RA's already have to come back so early and pushing the date back would hurt them," Hauch said. 
"We need compelling rea­son why students want a fourth study day. We need good arguments to tell the Academic Council." she added. 
Tom Pierce, a sophomore, said having a sludy day in the middle of the week may help students catch up. 
"I probably don't use all four study days when they are in a row. It might be helpful to have one 
"Without the  "Without four consecutive  in  the  
four consec­utive days. I  study days, I think  middle to catch up  
think people  people are going to burn  f  r  O  m  
are  going to  out. I feel the new  cramming  
burn out. I feel the new  schedule is dragging  the night before,".  
schedule  is  finals out."  Pierce  
dragging  said.  
finals out." Sophomore Lauren Gale  Tlffney Colon junior  Roberts said it could give  

said she would rather start school earlier because she likes having four consec­utive study days that leave some time for relaxing. 
"I wouldn't like the new schedule. Personally I like the way it is now," Gale said. 
Although some have said school should start before Aug. 22 to avoid the new schedule, student senator Melissa Hauch said there are reasons why the specific date is set. 
"! talked to Dean Kolman from the First Year of Studies and the reason school can not start before Aug. 22 is because of the Freshman 

students more time to prepare. 
"Over the past two years, I've learned that the math tests are usually at the end of the week, so it might actually give us in engineering more time to study," Roberts said. 
But overall, most students say they prefer the current finals schedule over the pro­posed one. 
"I think it's good to have transition time," Brennan said. "I don't like that. I think it's better when all the study days are in a row, because then you have more time to study your notes and read­ings thoroughly." 

PaxOnisti 
continued from page 1 
movement was inspired by a statement released by U.S. Catholic bishops in Mareh call­ing on the government to redi­rect our national spending pri­orities away from defense and towards education and health care. The bus tour began in Los Angeles in early September and will wind up in Burlington. Vt., on Nov. 2, the week before Election Day. Organizers hope to raise awareness of' the issue across the country. 
LeCompte encouraged the audience to work for a more equitable distribution of resources. 
"We believe that support for this massive Pentagon spending on weapons is a mile wide but only 1/2 inch deep," he said. "The challenge for all of us here, no matter where we came from, is to break the hold that the military industrial complex has on Washington, D. C." 
Attendance at the event var­ied throughout the event, which was originally to be held on South Quad but was driven inside by the rain. It was most crowded at its 4:45 p.m. start, when students leaving dass stopped to watch. Fewer people were present later, but organiz­ers said the event was success­ful, and they hope to build on its momentum. 
"What was most significant for us was to have this national Pax Christi event on campus and have people walk by and think about it," said Rachel Soltis, a leader of the club. "I hope it started people thinking and Pax Christi plans to contin­ue getting people to think." 
Friday, October 6, 2000 
Upto50%Off 

Officially 
Licensed Notre Dame Merchandise... 
Save up to 50% on sweatshirts, 
hats, polo shirts, jackets, novelties and much more! 




Where...? 
N 
Located at:
1 

Cl.EVRAND 
LOGAN CENTER 
1235 N. Eddy, South Bend IN 
Rightacross from Notre Dame Stadium entrance on the corner of Eddy& Angela 
Who...? 



When...? 

ND vs. PurdueWeekend 
Days open Time open 
Thursday 
l0-6 

Friday 
9-7 


Saturday 
7:30-6 



Sunday 
10-2 


Guest Signings 
r'!"'""r:,. 
, · Have your photo taken with Tony Rice, Austin Carr and Collis Jones. *Plus theywill sign your photo and 
otre Dame merchandise. 

*Items must be purchased at Logan 

-------------. ------­




ATION 
Friday, October 6, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
French officials debate use of pill: 
The National Assembly began debate Thursday on the Socialist government's plan to allow public school nurses in France to distribute a morning-after contraception pill in junior and senior high schools. The pill, called Norlevo, is taken within 72 hours following intercourse and prevents pregnancy by blocking the implantation of a fertilized egg in the uterus. Opponents claim it amounts to abortion. 
Immigrants flee Ivory Coast: 
Thousands of immigrants fled the Ivory Coast on Thursday, fearful of being targeted by civil unrest if opposition leaders are barred from presidential elections. Immigrants from neigh­boring West African countries and Muslims from northern Ivory Coast are the primary sup­porL base of the main opposition candidate, i\lassane Dramane Ouattara. who is expected to be excluded from the vote. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Bolt problem delays shuttle launch: 
NASA called off Thursday's launch of space shuttle Discovery because of last-minute con­cerns over bolts on the external fuel tank. The space agency aimed for a Friday night liftoff but stressed that the problem must be solved before Discovery can lly. This 100th space shuttle flight is a crucial space station construction mission. 

$1 IM awarded in King libel suit: A 
judge has awarded $11 million to a man who said he was libeled in a book that claimed Martin Luther King Jr.'s assassination was a conspiracy between the government. sniper teams and organized crime. Billy Ray Eidson sued London lawyer William F. Pepper and his publishers in 1997 for writing that Eidson was part of a Special Forces unit sent to Memphis on April 4, 1968, to kill King. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Officers honor slain collegue: Nearly 600 uniformed law enforcement officers gath­ered in a flower-strewn auditorium Wednesday to say goodbye to Beech Grove police officer William Toney -while another man was for­mally charged with the murder. Toney, who would have turned 32 on Saturday, died Friday night after he was shot while chasing the driver of a stolen van. Benjamin Ritchie, 20, was charged Wednesday with murder, unlawful possession of a firearm by a serious violent felon, auto theft, resisting law enforcement, and carrying a handgun without a license. 
Market Watch 10/5 

Dow 
10,724.92 -59.56 

}ONES 
CompositeUp: Same: Volume:

l.2o1 496 l, 181,516,544 
AMEX: 929.93 ·-4,¾ Nasdaq: 3472.10 -51.00 NYSE: 667,87 -tl,7.3 
• 
.

S&P 500: 1436.28 + 1.96 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMl'ANY/SfCUlllTY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE DELL COMPUTER (DELL) -10 6J -2 ')9 15.19 WORJ.DCOM JNC (WCOM) -7.97 -2.2; 2).94 INTEL CORI' (INTC} -2.38 -100 41.00 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.71 -1.00 57.56 MICROSOFT CORP (MSFD -.06 55.38
-. IO 
YUGOSLAVIA 


AFP Photo 

Protesters beat up a Serb riot policeman during violent protests in Belgrade. Protesters stormed the Yugoslav parliament and state television, and police fired tear gas at more than 300,000 people making the most deter­mined bid yet to topple Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic. 


Protestors set parliament on fire 
willingness to battle the sion headquarters nearby. block any possible counter­
Associated Press 

largest anti-Milosevic Dozens of people were attack by the military. He BELGRADE protest ever. injured, according to wit­also appealed to people 
Mobs seeking to topple Many police put down nesses. Some police who from the countryside to Slobodan Milosevic turned their clubs and joined flag­fired on demonstrators stream into Belgrade for their fury on his centers of waving crowds as they were beaten. Elsewhere in rallies Friday. power Thursday, leaving surged across central the country, thousands "We call on the military parliament and other key Belgrade through clouds of more people joined smaller and police to do everything Belgrade sites in shambles tear gas. As demonstrators rallies in a number of to ensure a peaceful transi­and flames. The 13-year charged and riot police towns. tion of power," he said. rule of the Yugoslav presi­cowered behind helmets "What we are doing today The crowd chanted for dent appeared near col­and shields, the federal is making history," Milosevic's arrest. lapse. parliament building, the Kostunica proclaimed dur­Kostunica answered: "He 
Hundreds of thousands of state broadcasting center ing an evening speech in doesn't need to be arrested. people swarmed through and police stations fell in front of Belgrade city hall, He arrested himself a long the capital to demand that quick succession. across from parliament. time ago." Milosevic accept his appar­Protesters tossed docu­The domino-like success­At the White House, ent electoral defeat by ments and portraits of es of the opposition did not President Clinton said: "The Vojislav Kostunica in the Milosevic through the bro­fully erase fears that people are trying to get Sept. 24 election. The ken windows of the parlia­Milosevic could still strike their country back." British 
--uprising developed with ment complex. Smoke bil­back. Kostunica asked sup­Prime Minister Tony Blair stunning speed, swelling as lowed from the building porters to remain on the said of Milosevic: "Your security forces showed little and from the state televi-streets until dawn to try to time is up. Go now." 
IRAN 


Iranians join Mideast protests 
Karrubi told the demonstrators in the tear gas against a crowd of 5,000 peo­
Associated Pcess 

Iranian capital's Palestine Square. ple demanding that the government 
TEHRAN "Experience has shown that talks break relations with Israel. 
Chanting slogans against the United and reconciliation with Israel is an The protesters threw rocks, smash• States and calling for the destruction exercise in futility," said Karrubi, ing the windows of a police station. of Israel, some 10,000 people took to whose speech was interrupted by pro­They smashed shop windows and cars the streets of Tehran on Thursday to testers' shouts of "Allahu Akbar," or in Wehdat camp, home tg nearly protest the deaths of scores of "God is great," and "Death to Israel." 20,000 Palestinians displaced in the Palestinians in clashes with Israeli Behind the podium, a large banner 1948 and 1967 Middle East wars. security forces. said: "Death to America." The demon­Hours earlier, Prime Minister Ali 
"The only way left for the liberation strators also burned an American flag. Abu-Ragheb had urged protesters to of Palestine is resistance and jihad In Jordan, a riot broke out in a "refrain from attacking private and (holy war) against the Zionist occupa­Palestinian refugee camp outside public property," the official Petra tion," parliament speaker Mahdi Amman when police used batons and news agency reported. 


The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 6, 2000 
THE FOLLOWING EVENTS ARE HAPPENING AT THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE:· Author Events: 
Saturday, Oct. 7 from 11:00 a.m. to 12:30 p.m., Kenneth Woodward 
signs copies of his book, "The Book ofMiracles. ,, 

Saturday, Oct. 7 during the day, storybook character, Lyle, Lyle Crocodile makes periodic ~isits to the bookstore for photo poses with football fans. 
Saturday, Oct. 7 from 10:00 a.m. to Noon, Football great and former ND team captain, Rocky Bleier will sign his memoir, Fighting Back. Mr. Bleier holds four Superbowl rings. 
Saturday, Oct. 7 from 10:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m., Coaches Tom Pagna and Ara Parseghian will sign copies of The Era ofAra and Pagna's memoir of his mother, entitled Petals from a Rose. 
Saturday, Oct. 7 from 10:30 a.m. to 1 :00 p.m., dessert tasting prepared by Junior League members from their cookbooks, Nutbread & Nostalgia and Great Beginnings, Grand Finales. 

Saturday, Oct. 7 from 11:00 a.m. to 12:30 p.m., Coach Gerry Faust 
signs copies of The Golden Dream. 

Tuesday, Oct. 10 at 11:00 a.m. Storytime features Lyle, Lyle Crocodile, by Bernard Waber, with a visit by the storybook character, Lyle, followed by activities and music. 
Tuesday, Oct. 10 at,Z:0Op.m. Brother Guy Consolmagno, author of Brother Astronomer:Adventures ofa Vatican Priest, will discuss and sign copies of his ITlemoir. Brother Guy is an astronomer at the Vatican Observatory where he serves as curator of one of the largest meteorite collections in the world. 
Thursday, Oct. 12 from 4:30 p.m. to 6:00 p.m., Caldecott Award Honor author and illustrator Audrey and Don Wood include us on their national tour for their first joint collaboration in over four years. 
HAMMES 
P1;:~;~~€gf~~:~I~~~::;;f~~j!E~~Je &,~Mi~ 
l...•·.Nr••· ... ,-••.ij••.•\·~•·•I••·:ic··Q.m. (I~· N·••.··,-·•···•·E•·····k•··••.••-•····· 


Music Events: ,... 
On Saturday, Oct," 7 at 8:00 a.m., Bagpiper Joe Smith: Class of tOl; performs. From 9:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m.,> Pianist Joe ttemeau, Class of '02, performs. 
Acapella group, The Undertones, performs one hour after the game on Saturday, Oct. 7. 

Friday, Ocrober 6, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 

Police \Varn off-campus students about security issues 
. Crimes against off• campus students reached a record high this summer 
By MAUREEN SMITHE 
Assistanr Nc:ws Editor 
Off-campus crime is a reality, but is preventable, according to members of the South Bend Police Department's crime prevention bureau. 
With nearly 20 percent of Notre Dame students living off campus, safe­ty is a big concern for everyone. Crime 
"Party smart.

against off-campus about the dangers students reached Ifyou're going to a party, associated with house "epidemic propor­keep in mind that once parties. Corporal Pat 
Uons" this summer. Hechlinski said an
you are toasted, you are

according to Domus open house is an invi­Properties owner a very easy target for tation for criminals. Mark Kramer. In someone to knock "If you have an open response. he orga­house party at your
you down and

nized a crime pre­house any bad guy vention meeting in take your stuff" can come through and conjunction with the case out your place police department and rob you,"
Pat Hechlinski 

last night for stu­Hcchlinski said. 
corporal

dents and members of the community. 
"[Criminal acts] are going to happen. They are inevitable. We want to make it less likely that they will happen," said cor­poral Eldon Bradley. 
The first step to crime prevention is to be preparation, according to Bradley. Students should constantly be aware of the ever-changing environ­ment they are in. 
Bradley advised students to look behind them and not step off a porch before checking surroundings for sus­picious individuals. 
Additionally, neighborhood watch programs are in effect in most South Bend neighborhoods. 
"Neighborhood watch is one of the most successful means of preventing crimes in your neighborhood," said corporal Patty Byrd. 
"All of you can be on neighborhood watch. All we ask is for you to call the police when you see someone suspi­cious," said corporal Bill Schmidt. 
The watch systems involve a block captain who signs up to be aware or suspicious behavior in the neighbor­hood. 
Captains receive automated phone messages of felony arrests. assaults and burglaries in the area and are required to relay the information to 
neighbors. 
The department 
also warned students 
Walking home from 
parties can be even 
more dangerous, Hechlinski said. 
"Party smart. If you're going to a party, keep in mind that once you are toasted, you are a very easy target for someone to knock you down and take your stuff. You make yourself easy prey," he said. 
"Do not walk the streets at 2 o'clock in the morning. You might as well put a sign on your head that says, 'I am a Notre Dame student. Beat me. Take my money,"' Bradley said. 
If confronted, the officers stressed cautious cooperation with th·e assailant. 
"The biggest thing I want to impress 


rr-====================================..-Police Department,
and cars can be left 
... 
Ex_ra.ti:d=.t·d H@urs a.t tb.=t· W-riti.t\i ~=-t.6t=.t·r 


Get a 5' x 8' ND flag today! 
Great for students. 20% discount on S'x 8' ND flag and 10% discount on all other items for ND students, faculty and staff with ND photo I.D. 

The Notre Dame Writing Center has expanded its hours. You can now talk your papers over with a Writing Tutor on Sunday afternoons and evenings. 

The Notre Dame Writing Center is dedicated. to helping all students improve their writing. Writing tutors help students with writing projects at any stage during the writing process. From understanding the assignment, to developing arguments, to organizing materials, to critiquing that final draft, Writing Center tutors will work with you through the writing process. 
So stop by for a good conversation about your writing! Our locations and expanded times are; 
Our Evening and Afternoon Hours Are: 
Knott Hall  Monday-Thursday  7-l0p.m.  
Sunday  3-10 p.m. (new/)  
Learning Resource Center  Monday-Thursday  7-lOp.m.  
Sunday  6-10 p.m. (new/)  
Center for Social Concerns  Sunday-Tuesday  7-lOp.m.  
B012 DeBartolo  Monday-Thursday  1-4p.m.  
Our Morning Hours Are:  
B012 DeBartolo  Monday &Wednesday  l 0:30-noon  
Tuesday & Thursday  9-11 a.m. (IIDD)  


Be aware of your surroundings 

at all times. 

is this: I don't care how big and strong you are because these people have guns and knives and they know how to rob and assault you. Don't think for one minute that they care about you. They don't care about you or your belongings. They will hurt you," Bradley said. 
Students can take a proactive approach to crime prevention. During winter break, valuable items such as computers and bikes can be stored with the Notre Dame 
in the North D2 lot, which is locked for the vacation time. 
Additionally, students are encour­aged to call the South Bend Police Department during breaks to request a home watch. 
The department will have officers regularly patrol the area and check on automobiles. 
Overall, the meeting stressed the need for students to be aware of the possibility of crime. 
"We want you to be safe. That is our main concern," Bradley said. "Crime happens to good people, so always make yourself aware." 

The Castle ofFlags© 
GO IRISH/II! 
FLAGS INTERNATIONAL® I0845 McKinley Highway 
Osceola, Indiana 46561 Telephone: 219-674-5125 Visit us on the web at www.flagsl.net 
Widest selection of Notre Dame flags and banners in the country. Over 70 varieties of U.S. flags, 
states and U.S. territories; iufe.rutioul flap 
n.........,......_ 
fj ~lb"",,,·-a,pt,-p9LfiM™: ....._____ ·-­
i

~=~=========~====================~!JI..:.!______________________, 
Friday, October 6, 2000

page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 


Job Direct to provide SMC with career, resume service online 
By MYRA McGRIFF 
Nrw< Writer 
As of Sept. 1, the Career and Development office of Saint Mary's, and its partner. thP. Internet SN­vice Job Direct, went online to prepare students for the job world. The new job service hopes to get students actively thinking about career place­ment and internships. The new directory will offer students a wide range of workshops and network­ing. 
Collaborating with a nationwide search engine. Job DirPct, all students can get their feet wet and find out how the job market works. 
"Students can see what jobs are out there. requirements, and research to get a good fit," said David Wilkeson, assistant director for career development. 
Through Job Direct students can look for a career or internship and at the same time set up guod contacts. 
The site. accessible 24-hours a day. seven days a week, allows students to put their resumes online. The site then filters uut those resumes to employers looking to fill positions. 
"One benefit is Job Direct has 500 companies nationwide so our students get more exposure." said Wilkeson. 
Another way the directory allows more net­working is through resume referrals. 
"If an employer calls for a specific position, Career Development can do a search of rc-sumes and send them to the employer," said Wilkeson. Along with online resume services the new job directory will allow students to know about upcoming events in the career development office. 
"We can let students know about workshops, when employers are coming and other announce­ments. 
If there are any links that apply we can commu­nicate with the student more effectively," said Wilkeson. 
The career office sees educating students as a major goal. They want students to know the skills to get a job, not just find a job. 
For more information on the workshops offered by the Career Development office log on to www.sainLmarys.edu/-ccdc. To put a resume on line, log on to http://saintmarys.jobdirect.com. 

Mendez featured in book, television 
Special to The Observer 
Juan Mendez, professor of law and director of the Center for Civil and Human Rights at Notre Dame, is featured in a new book that profiles figures from around the world who have stood up to oppression in the nonviolent pursuit of human rights. A PBS special airing at 7 p.m. Oct. 8 will dramatize the stories of these activists. 
"Truth to Power," by Kerry Kennedy Cuomo, describes the lives of 51 human rights activists, including Mendez, who was imprisoned and tor­tured in Argentina. The PBS program, "Human Rights Defenders," was taped at a recent Kennedy Center event that featured Chilean play­wright Ariel Dorl'man's dramatizations from the book. The program stars actors including Glenn Close, Sigourney Weaver, Edward 
James  Olmos  and  Alfre  
Woodard.  
A  native  of  Lomas  de  

Zamora, Argentina, Mendez has dedicated his legal career to the defense of human rights and has a long and distin­guished record of human­rights advocacy throughout the Americas. As a result of his representation of political prisoners, he was arrested, tortured and subjected to administrative detention for 18 months by the Argentinean military dictatorship. 
Mendez became general counsel of Human B.ights Watch in 1994 and was instru­mental in making it the world's leading private moni­tor of' human rights violations. lie was the executive director of the Inter-American Inslitute 

-~•Id u, IIOSt Cli-'l Stores or via o.tr .a, site · ~ www.AirbomeHealth.com 
~ or coll 1-800-590-9794 
. "• ···,; •:.: ;£!i,; ' T aDCi Ii r.. 0. 

Er1E'1Vf.SCE.IH Col.D FotUIIUU .:~ ,i. i L1 rrcst ~ St.O?l:S or via cur ,,.,,g) site · ~ ww1,.,_J1.ir:bomeHealth.cl'J!11 ~ or call 1-800-590-9794 
uf Human Rights in Costa Rica Hights in 1998, Mendez joined 
from 1996-1999 and also has the Notre Dame faculty last been a member and second year and is a faculty fellow of vice-president of the Inter-the University's Kroc Institute American Commission on for International Peace Human Hights. Studies. 
D~-~~ 'sre~itvi.en~i ~l~a~ ot~~ ct:!~~~e:,roe~r~~~11:isM~~~ 
Glee Club hosts two reunion concerts 
Special to The Observer 

The Notre Dame Glee Club will present two concerts this weekend as part or Reunion 2000, a gathering in which pre­sent and graduated Glee Club members from across the coun­try will celebrate the group's 85th anniversarv. 
A joint conce~t by Glee Club members and 200 Glee Club alumni will be held at 8 p.m. today at Stepan Center. Tickets are $3 and are available at the Lafortune Student Center information desk or at the door. 
The group will also presP.nt "ND in Heview" at 11 :30 a.m. Saturdav. 
The c~nccrt will be held near the reflecting pool next to Hesburgh Library and is free and open to the public 
The Glee Club's repertoire includes plainsong, Henaissancc polyphony, music from romantic and contempo­rary composers. American folk­songs and spirituals and Notre Dame school songs. 
Recognized as one ol' the finest all male collegiate choral groups in the country, the Notre Dame Glee Club has a rich history of singing and brotherhood. 
More than 2000 young men have sung with the club. and the group has toured from coast to coast and around the world, performing more than 100 concerts annually. 

CORRECTION 

An article in Wednesday's Observer stated that the University's operating budget doubled from $234 billion to $535 billion. The correct numbers were $234 million and $535 mil­lion. 
The Observer regrets the error. 
: 
~ 
. 

.·>· <·; · 

: ~{~:,_<T:;:~.. ,~rog~sshre ·o;~·ce Party _·~·.,)' ~?;;:::·-­
~~~e;~· i~Sr.c.0:~~t:~~i~ohneaJ ~~i~er~~ty,~a~at~!\c i~~~~~~ .:.:~~··: --f:~ ,..~-·.::,_.~{-,.-,-·':·.: 
~S•e•r•v•ic•e,,_in.._C!lli•v•illll!!!!!!a•n•d-H•u•m-a•n-•A•rg•e•n•t•in•a•,•i•n•1•9•7•0•.-----.i .. ,",;jdi~}~,)~ 


~ 
Italian/Sicilian 

~"--i Trattoria 
Dining  :~  -r  ~­ 
)  (  ·  ~, ~~5 S. Michigan St  
Fresh prepared ~ers,  ) s&uth Bend, JN 46601  
Piz1at Beverages  ,,..~{J  219-233-1000  








i1t,~fff:J;('.'.,;Jtfi~e:d~or . . -:: ~f 
: -(an procaeds.go to The'Christlan Foundation for Children and Aging) 
;!t~•::.;' ~\_·=:~-~{(/::._._.<?-~~-~~-::-..:....:-~/~;~\.~~;(.':•,;.~:..~-;~.:~:!-;•;. ' •., ,. ,, • S_itfi!: ;Ge~ter for Sociarconcerns (CSC) .. ,. 
~ ... ;...;;~·· <>t._,~:;~:-_;._;-:i~_~..,--~ . ., -__ -:.'_: '..~ ~-: .· .... ... • • _Parfy kicks off Friday, October 6. from 9:00 PM .:. 2:00 AM 
• Featuring DJ Jeronimo and DJ Chrismix from Chicago 
*Sponsored by FASO, La Alianza. AAA, Center for Social Concerns, Troop ND 
"Thanks to Student Government for their generous donation 


JlsSOCIJ\.'TION ofNot1~e 1Ja1ne 
(VSA) 
First General Meetingl!! 
When: 8:30pm Friday, October 29', 2000 Where: Lafortune Coalition Room (2nd floor) Who: All interested parties! 
(Questions? Contact Le.1 O@nd.edu) 
Friday, October 6, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 _ 


• 





Olil 

• • 
I 


• • 

I 


• 
It really is that easy. Free, too. 
I . 
http://www.nd.edu/ ~observer 
OBSERVER 
online classifieds 

page I 0 The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 Friday, October 6, 2000 
Cheney, Lieberinan spar over lllilitary, taxes and surplus 
Associated Press 
DANVILLE, Ky. 

Hepublican Dick Cheney and Democrat Joseph Lieberman disagreed firmly but polilcly Thursday nighL about military readiness, tax cuts and the future of Social Security in a 
gentlemanly debate or campaign under­studies. 
Sitting a few l'cct aparl around a small table, the vice prosidcntiaf candi­dates agreed that Prnsident Slobodan 


Milosevic should Lieberman give up power in Yugo::.la.via after an election loss, but both opposed the use of American troops to force him out. 
In a debate that ranged broadly over numerous issues, Lieberman, a two-term Connecticut senator, said Republicans want to "raid the Medicare trust fund to pay for their tax cuts." 
Hut Cheney said there was more than enough money to go around, and it is "totally reasonable" to give relief to all taxpayers. 
The argument that "somehow ... all of it is going to tax cuts isn't true," Cheney said of the huge surpluses forecast over the next decade. 
The two men sparred as they sat 

Bush, Gore say Milosevic must go 
Associ:1ted Press 
CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa 

Presidential candidates George W. Hush and Al Gore agreed Thursday that Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic must relinquish power. 
Milosevic "needs to go" Bush said as he campaigned in the Midwest. Gore, campaigning in the same region. declared: "One way or the other, he is going to leave." 
Their running mates echoed ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
those views in their televised 
debate Thursday night and 
both said they welcomed late 
reports that Milosevic's govern­
ment had collapsed. 
"We want to do everything we can to support Mr. Milosevic's departure," said GOP vice presidential nominee Dick Cheney. 
His Democratic rival, Sen. Joseph Lieberman, said the demise of Milosevic's rule would be "a very happy ending to a terrible story ... the end of a reign of terror." 
In Belgrade, Yugoslavia, pro­testers took control of the par­liament Thursday, angry that Milosevic would not accept 
electoral defeat. Key Belgrade L:iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;;;;;;;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii..iiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;;;;;;;iiiiiiiii;;;;;;.;;;;;;;;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiii--;;;:J 
siln:; were left in shambles and Miloscvic's 13-year rule appeared to be at an end. 
Bush, deviating from an edu­cation speech at a public school near Detroit, said it was "clear the people have spoken. It is Lime for Mr. Milosevic to go." 
Later, he told a Wisconsin audience that Milosevic "needs l() go." Bush. the Republican candidate, said the protesters were acting out of frustration and "took matters into their own hands." 
"Our country must work closely with our allies in Europe, Lhe international com­

munity including Hussia, to pressure Mr. Milosevic to leave office," Hush said. "The world will bn a better place when he hears the word of his people and leavos his office." 
Gore, the Democratic candi­date, said he felt "in some ways joyful" at the sight of revolu­tionaries in Yugoslavia, but said the joy was tempered by the "volatile situation" in Belgrade. 
"It is obviously time for Milosevic to get out of power. One way or another he is going to leave power because what we have seen is the power of people who vote to express themselves in a decisive way," r;ore said in Grand Rapids, 

The Medical Scientist Training Program at the Medical College of Wisconsin 
Trainees in this combined M.D.-Ph.D. degree program receive full tuition scholarships and stipends throughout their studies. Highly qualified students with a background in research are encouraged to apply. The training program application deadline is November 1. 
Medical Scientist Training Program 
Medical College of Wisconsin 8701 Watertown Plank Road Milwaukee, WI 53226-0509
MEDICAL-Phone: (414) 456-8641 1-(800) 457-2775 COLLEGE E-mail: mstp@mcw.edu 
Web Site: www.mcw.edu/mstp
OF WISCONSIN 

Web Site: www.mcw.edu/student/mstp 
together for their only debate of the fall campaign. The atmosphere on a special­ly constructed stage at Centre College seemed more relaxed than Tuesdav night when presidential candidates Al Gore and George W. Bush met in Boston for the first of their three scheduled encounlers. 
Each man pledged to avoid personal attacks. Cheney took that one step fur­ther. "I promise not to bring up your singing," he said to Lieberman. 
That drew laugh­ter and a swift rebuttal. "And I promise not to sing," 
The two men debatr,d in a White House race that is as dose as any in the past four decades. Bush and Gore are sepa­rated by only a point or two in most polls, pointing to a suspenseful final month of the campaign. 
Asked by moderator Bernard Shaw about a public uprising in Yugoslavia designed to force out Milosevic, Lieberman and Cheney both said they hoped he would surrender power, but ruled out the use of American troops. Lieberman said a U.S.-led bombing cam-· paign last year had halted Milosevic's aggression. 
Cheney hearkened back to Tuesday 

Mich. 

The upheaval also became a topic at the vice presidential debate in Kentucky. 
"We want to do everything we can to support Mr. Milosevic's departure. Certainly, though, that would not involve commit­ting U.S. troops," said Cheney. a former defense secretary. "I do think it's noteworthy that there appears to be an effort under way to get the Russians involved." 
night's debate. "There appears to be underway an effort to get the Russians involved," the former defense secretary said. "Governor Bush suggested exactly that ... and Al Gore pooh-poohed it," he added. "But now it's been reported in the press that in fact that is exactly what we're doing, that Governor Hush was correct in his assessment and his recom­mendation." 
Cheney added the situation was an opportunity to test President Vladimir Putin of Russia. 
"We ought to find out whether he is indeed· committed to democracy, whether he is committed to support the forces of freedom and democracy." 
The running mates reviinved well­worn campaign disagreements over Social Security. 
Lieberman said he and Gore have a proposal that would guarantee benefits to current recipients through at least 2054. 
He conceded that he had recently 
· investigated suggestions that individuals be allowed to invest some of their own funds. "Sometimes you have to dig deep to find out if there's oil in the well. I drilled into that, and the deeper I got, the drier the well became," he said. Bush has called for allowing younger workers to take control over investment of 2 percent of their own Social Security payroll taxes, a step he says would increase their total investment returns. 
Cheney endorsed that, and said Gore's proposal contained no overall reform to safeguard the future of the retirement program. 
When it came to defense readiness, Cheney said there has been an erosion during the eight years of the Clinton administration, and the Pentagon was "overcommitted and under-resourced." 
"With all due respect, this administra­tion has a bad track record," he said, cit­ing reports that some units were only permitted lo conduct live firing exercises twice a year. 
Lieberman replied that the United States was "ready to meet any cornmit­ment that might arise," and scolded Cheney for his comments in the midst of a political campaign. 
The two men reprised comments made Tuesday night by the presidential candi­datfls when the topic turned to HU-486, an abortion pill recently approved by the government for use in the United StatBs. 
Cheney said the FDA had already acted, and the only issue was whethnr the drug was safo. lie said he and Bush are "pro-life," and the Texas governor would look for ways to "reach across the divide to reduce abortion." 
Lieberman signaled his support for the FDA decision, and said there were fun­damental differences between the two tickets on abortion. 
"Al Gore and I will respect a woman's right to choose. And our opponents will not," he said. 

oaa==========================-i 
289-5080 
Announces the Following Introductory Offers Of... 

m:zori1 r 12:', ,.. ss9, r 1'6r, r 76T,
I Aveda I I Cut & I I c.,.,. c.i & s,r1< I I Penn, Cut I I Hilites & I 
L !:~ .J L ~Y.!:;, .J C::.!'::e!!J L ~~e.J 1.;.u!!~~ Please use the Special Savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confi­dence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 
NOT VALID FOR SPIRAL PERMS, LONG OR TINTED HAIR ADD $ IO, No OTHER DISCOUNTS APPLY. OPEN SOME EVENINGS. ATRIA SALON RESERVES THE RIGHT TO REFUSE SERVICE TO ANY CLIENT WHOSE HAIR CONDITION IS UNSUITABLE. 
Valid with the Following Stylists Only: Sarah, Vicki, & Connie 
-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-
Must Be Presented To Receptionist Before Services Arc Performed (Certain Restrictions Apply) 1357 N. Ironwood Dr. Offer Expires rn/15/2000 


Friday, October 6, 2000 
The Observer . NEWS page 11 
Parade incites ethnic fears 
Delta gives benefits 
to same-sex couples 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 

Dolta Air Lines said Thursday it will offer health-care coverage and other benefits to same-sex partners of its U.S. empk>yees bf'ginning July 1. 
Bereavement leave and family medical leave benefits will be available to partners of gay employees immediately, 5pokcsman John Kennedy said The airline has been studying ways to extend benefits to employees' same-sex partners for more than a year, he said. 
"Delta is committed to attract­ing and retaining a diverse work force, and our goal is to ensurn Delta provides an inclusive envi­ronment for all people to work in." Kennedy said. 
Della's amHwncerncnt follows a decision by Atlanta-based Coca-Cola. to provide benelits for homosexual partners of its 
U.S. employees beginning Jan. 1. Several other airlines also have agreed to extend such ben­efits. United. the nation's largest airline, changed its benefits poli­cies more than a year ago, and 
was  followed  quickly  by  
American  Airlines  and  US  
Airways.  

"Delta has joined those Georgia and U.S. companies who recognize that domestic­partner benefits are simply equal pay for the equal work of gay and lesbian employees," said Harry Knox, executive director or the Georgia Equality Project. 
A recent report by thp, Washington-based Iluman Hig!Hs Campaign found that J,572 companies, colleges and states and local governments offered or have announced they will offer healt}J insurance cov­ering their employees' domestic partners. 
Fortune 500 wmpauies plan­ning to offer domestic benefits increased from 70 in August 1999 to 102 in August :woo. 

going to be heard in this city," he "I understand protest and
Associated Press 

said Thursday. "They are not issues of social justice," Webb going to do this to us anymore." said. "I also understand thatDENVER AIM spokesman Vernon these are highly emotional issues The city's first Columbus Day Bellecourt, who is based in for both sides. But we need toparade in rn:iarly a decade has Minneapolis. said the organiza­seek some common ground."
stirred fears of violence this 
tion has called for civil disobedi-Denver's Columbus Day
weekend between Italian­
. cncc against groups and govern­parades have been tumultuous.
Americans on one side and 
menl<; that celebrate Columbus. In 1989. AIM's Russell MeansHispanics and American Indians 
"If the German-Americans and three others were arrested 
on the other. 

were to honor Adolf Hitler with after they threw fake blood on aThe city hasn't held the parade festivities and parades and Columbus statue. The next year,
since 1991 amid concern that 
march through Jewish commu­protesters shouted anti­
groups who b!'!ieve Christopher nities, nobodv would tolerate Columbus slogans as the paradeColumbus was a killer and slave that," he said: went through
trader would clash with 
"We, as Indian dm,"ntown.
marchers. 

communities, "If the German­In 1992,
This yea1·, under a federally 
are supposed Americans were to honor fears of
mediated pact. Denver's Italian to put up with protests by
cornm1.inity had agreed to call AdolfHitler ... nobody
honoring AIM members
Saturday's celebration an Italian 
Columbus?" would tolerate that." prompted
Pride parade and make no men­
Some com-organizers to
tion of Columbus. But the pact munities have cancel the
collapsed. Vernon Bellecourt
dropped plans event.
Parade organizers and mem­AIM spokesman
to put their George
bers of the American Indian 
fire trucks in Vendegnia,
Movement have pledged to be the parade for fear the vehicles founder of the Sons of Italy/New peaceful, but there is fear tem­might get damaged and firefight­Generation, said city officials dis­pers will boil over. 
ers might. get hurt. Mayor couraged his group from seeking
Parade organizer C.M. 
Wellington Webb has pleaded parade permits in the ensuingMangiaracina said the parade for calm, and the governor years. but the organization decid­will go forward and the protest­pledged state help to maintain ed to apply this year after new ers "can choke on it." 
the peace. people were put in top city jobs. 
"My boys of Italian descent are 

PERFOR.1\.IINGARTS CENTER* SOUTII BEND, IN 
TICKETS AVAILABII AT MORRIS PERFORMING ARTS C!NTIR BOX OIIICf, All USUAl TICKET ounrn IN(lUDING smmo MARJERlll'S

.get info at_~~fotj, 
HAUMARK lOCATIOMS, ON·UNE AT www.marrimnter.org,
, ~--.,,. ~IJ 
i .OIARGUY PHONE AT 1-8CO-S37-641S OR 219-235-9190 

. -l! 
;SfX. ii~t~il SFX 109<! tte !e~ite marlls GI SFX Er1.::~~-•nm,;,11tkc
1 

i jotrstientlalllB 
care PackaRe! 

The Kettle will deliver afresh batch ofgourmet 
Carolyn's Caramel Com. Cheesy Com, and buttery Kettle Com 
to your hard-working students. Choose either a 3 I /2 gallon 
Platinum tin or atrio ofclear tub-t ~ 
We're happy to include anotecard 
., 
with your pt.'TSOnal messaie. 
Just $29, delivery included, to Notre Dame or St. Mary's. 
, C•".' I (BBB) 753_

Call toll tr 8853 or 
.. • • -­

e-mail: order@Lhckcttle.nd lo place an llrdcr Visit http://www.thekcttlc.nct to view o.thcr~,.
flavor and order options ~·· ,._ 
.. ~ ~,

11i11-~------!!!!!!!l---.-!I------.. 
T!AACREF has delivered impressive results like these by combining two disciplined investment strategies. CREF:,GROWIH ACCOUNT3 In our CREF Growth Account, one of many CREF vari­26.70% 27.87% 26.60% .•.. able annuities, we combine active management with enhanced indexing. With two strategies, we have 1YEAR 5YEARS SINCE INCEPTION AS OF 6/30/00 6130/00 4/29/94two ways to seek out performance opportunities­helping to make your investments work twice as hard. This approach also allows Combine this team approach with our low expensesEXPENSE RATIO us to adapt our investments and you'll see how TIAA-CREF stands apart from CRH GROWTH INDUSTRY to different market the competition. Call and find out how TIAA-CREF ACCOUNT AVERAGE conditions, which is can work for you today and tomorrow. 0.32%1 2.09%2 especially important during volatile economic times.  
Ensuring the future for those who shape it.'M  1.800.842.2776  
www.tiaa-cref.org  
For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully before you invest. 1. TIAA-CREF expenses reflect the waiver of aportion of the Funds' investment management fees, guaranteed until July 1, 2003. 2. Source: Morningstar, Inc. 6/30/00, tracking 939 average large-cap growth annuity funds. 3. Due to current market volatility, our securities products' performance today may be less than shown above. The investment results shown for CREF Growth variable annuity reflect past performance and are not indicative of future rates of return. These returns and the value of the principal you have invested will fluctuate, so the shares you own may be more or less than their original price upon redemption. • TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the (REF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities.• Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements.• TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities. • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. • Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03  

'-----------------------------------------1 
page I 2 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 6, 2000 

Something for 

every 

one of 

your 9,000 tastebuds. 
Introducing the new 99( BK CRAVERS™ Menu. 
NEW MENU ITEMS 
• Finger Foods -Mozzarella Cheese Sticks 
,..,, 
-JALAPENO POPPERS® 
Friday, October 6, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 13 
Medicare to· pay for transplants 
. Intestinal transplants will now be covered in life threatening situations 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Medicare wiH now pay the cost of intestinal transplants, an operation that offers the only hope of survival for some patients, a federal agency announced Thursday. 
In a notice posted on its Web site, the Health Care f-oinancing Administration said Medicare would pay for transplanting new intestines into some patients with intestine failure, but only at hospital centers with a record of success in the procedure. 
The notice said it would apply only to patients with intestine failure who also have failed total parenteral nutrition. or TPN, a technique for feeding patients whose digestive sys­tems are unable to absorb nutrients. 
Only centers that perform at least 10 intestinal transplants a year and have a 65 percent one-year patient survival rate will be eligible for the Medicare payments, the notice said. 
Dr. Kareem Abu-Eimagd, a transplant surgeon at the UnivPrsity of Pittsburgh Medical Center, said in a state­ment that the federal decision is an important victory for transplant patients. 
"Without the financial burden and associatod hassles, patients can now concentrate on getting well with transplants," said Abu-Elmagd. 
. In a February 1999 presenta­tion to HCPA, the University of Pittsburgh had requcsted that intestinal transplant be includ­ed in Medicare. 
The medical center had argued that survival rates for intestinal transplants were now comparable to rates for other types of organ transplants. 
Medicare already pays for most of the costs associated with many transplants of the heart, kidney, lung and liver. 
Lisa Rossi, a spokeswoman at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, said that her center and 'at least two others, the University of Miami and the University of Nebrnska, Omaha, will meet the HCFA standard to qualify for Medicare payment for intestinal transplants opera­tions. 
Under the new rules, Medicare will pay for the trans­plant costs for patients with failed intestines who also have experienced complications from 

TPN. 

TPN is the only way patients with failed intestines~can be nourished. 
The technique involves sup­plying sugars. fats, vitamins and carbohydrates to the patient in a fluid that is dripped into a blood vessel. 
Ro·ssi said there are about 
40.000 patients in the U.S. being sustained with TPN and that about 13,000 of these patients eventually will develop life-threatening complications. A transplant is the only hope for survival for such patients. 
Because liver failure often follows intestinal failure, many patients rer•eive transplants of both organs at the same time. 
TPN complications include liver failure, blood clots and severe infections. 
All of these adverse events would make a TPN patient eli­gible for Medicare-supported intestinal transplants. 
Intestinal transplant opera­tions costs vary from patient to patient, but arc generally are a.bout $400,000 or more. 
For the rest of their lives, the transplant patients also must take an immune suppression drug that costs about $10,000 a year. 
Medicare may not cover all of the lifetime costs of the drug, Rossi said. 
Floods continue to plague South Florida 
storm.
. Clinton 

"Mother Nature, a lot ofdeclared disaster hardworking people and a lot areas to receive of pumps are getting us back 
to some sense of normalcy,"
federal help 
said Lt. Louie Fernandez of the Miami-Dade Fire-Rescue 
Associated Press 

MIAMI, Fla. 
Thousands of people remained without power and hundreds of stalled vehicles sat on still-flooded roadways Thursday as South Florida began drying out after a two­day storm dumped more than 18 inches of rain. 
Most schools were open, but 15 stayed shut with flooded grounds or no power. 
The state of emergency imposed by Gov . .Jeb Bush remained in effect. 
President Clinton declared four counties disaster areas. eligible for federal help. James Lee Witt, director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, is to visit the region Friday. 
Miami-Dade County officials reported more than 93,000 homes and an unknown num­ber of businesses stood in flooded neighborhoods and two people were killed by the Department. 
State agriculture officials said Miami-Dade farmers suf­fc red $500 million in crop losses. 
The governor released $100,000 in state funds to assist farmworkers, suddenly out of work because of flood­ing. 
About 2,600 homes and businesses remained without power, Florida Power and Light reported. 
Spokesman Bill Swank said many of those were served by buried lines and restoring all power might take days. 
At its worst, the flooding left about 92,000 customers with­out service. 
The storm moved well into the Atlantic Ocean Thursday where it strengthened and became Tropical Storm Leslie as sustained winds reached 39 mph. 
Forecasters say it could reach Bermuda this weekend but is not expected to become a hurricane. 


".May the Blessed .~!other bless this lFork and ail who enjoy it. " 
Fr. Ted Hesburgh, C.S.C. · Notre Dame President Emeritus 

''This one should bea big hil i-vith the ND crowd during the 11pcomingjhotbal/ season!" 
Fr. Bill Beauchatnp, C.S.C Executive Vjce President E1neritus 
''You have much to be proud ofin this musical endeavor." 
Jim O'Connor Fr. Mark Poorn1an, C.S.C. Manager, Hammes ND Bookstore Vice President for Student Affairs 
;cf am an ND parent and have just returnedfrmn seeing my nvo sons get settled for another _year I be! ieve that jmu haev truly cap­tured the Spirit Our Lacfy '.\' University. Thank5/" 
-The Huebners 
Winston-Salem, NC ND Parents 





Friday, October 6, 2000

page I 4 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Ll N I V E R S I T Y O F 
NOTRE DAME 
~ofuflohf; 
Presents ...... . 
C'6hf6r 


Office ot Inform.,uon T,chnologies 

350-, 400-, 450-or 500MHz PowerPC G3 processor 
··. ·ww· tJ''~"'<::l
._. ~>2.•

'. ~..· .. ···.'!!•.-.•'!!·.· .. • . "'~--·,-~•·,,.....·.•..·. 7GB, I 0GB, 20GB or 30GB Ultra ATA hard disk drive 
liiiU. ·: . : ;; 
-· . ,.; 

ATI RAGE 128 Pro graphics accelerator 
• . • . .... ' .·~.. 1;,1:, ''.\,(' . 

integrated Odyssey audio system by Harman Kardon 
\ 

and much more ........... From $965 (3 Year warranty) 
Four friendly models. Five luscious colors. 
Presenting the new iBook. 
\ 

_;The iMac to go now gives you 1novies to go. 

Impressive performance 366 or 466MHz PowerPC G3 processor IO-gigabyte Ultra ATA hard disk drive 
Brilliant, high-resolution TFT active-matrix display Up to 6 hours of battery life per charge 
Preinstalled iMovie software for professional-looking productions ...... From $1711 (3 Year warranty) 
Power Mac G4 Cube. 

The new Powerbook.
So much technology. So little space. 

Power PC G3 processors for up to 500 Mhz of great performance 450MHz PowerPC G4 processor with Velocity Engine 10GB or 20GB Ultra ATA/66 hard disk drive ATI RAGE 128 Pro graphics card with 16MB of graphics memory ATI RAGE Mobility 128 video controller with AGP 2X 
64MB ofhigh-performance memory 14.1-inch (diagonal)TFT XGA active-matrix display Small footprint for convenient desktop use Hot-swappable expansion bay ...... From $2340 (3 Year warranty) 20GB Ultra ATA/66 hard disk drive All-digital speaker system with Harman Kardon audio technology From $1982 (3 Year warranty, less monitor & floppy disk drive) 
-~ 

"/ ·--~~'; II lithe dual processor Mac G4. 
]\vice the Pentiutn-crushing power. Twice the envelope-pushing fun. 
Up to two 500MHz PowerPC G4 processors, and 64MB, 128MB or 256MB of PCl00 SD RAM 20GB 5400-rpm Ultra ATA/66, 30GB 7200-rpm Ultra ATA/66, 40GB 7200-rpm Ultra ATA/66 Four expansion slots, including three 64-bit PCI slots and one dedicated AGP 2X graphics card slot DVD-ROM drive for playing DVD video, or DVD-RAM drive for storing up to 9.4GB per disc 
"Instant access" side door that makes upgrade easy ...... From $2547 (3 Year warranty, less monitor & floppy disk drive) 


Displays too .... 

and don't forget. ... 
17" Studio display $465 15" flat panel display $930 
_.:,.,,, 22" Apple Cinema display $4120 
Appl,~~,~XI~
C.~ \" 1 year warranty when purchased separately. 

*included on CPUs mentioned above 
c;___ -' 3 year warranty when purchased with an Apple CPU including 3 year AppleCare. 



P~ NOTRE DAME 
,._.. FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 

Room 112 CCMB Hours: 8-5 Monday-Friday 
Now offering 9.90/oAPR(Annual Percentage Rate) financing 

Web site: www.nd.edu/ ,..,solution Email: solucion@nd.edu 
to faculty and staff for "personal technology purchases" from 

Phone: 631-7477 Fax: 631-3880 
the Solutions Center(not for departments). 

Your On-Campus Technology Store! 
Friday, October 6, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 15 
SRI LANKA 
Suspected rebel kills himself, 12 others in explosion 
Associated Press 
COLOMBO, Sri Lanka 

One day after Sri Lanka ended a peace ini­tiative to Tamil rebels, a suicide bomber set off an explosion near an election rally Thursday, killing himselfand 12 others. 
Police said 45 people were wounded, some of them critically, in the attack in Medawachchiya, a town 120 miles northeast of Colombo. 
Tissa Kraliyatha, a deputy minister, was campaigning for President Chandrika Kumaratunga's Peoples' Alliance at the time, but he arrived late for the rally and escaped the attack. 
No one immediately claimed responsibility for the attack, but a police officer in Colombo said it bore the hallmark of the Tamil Tiger rebels. 
Police said the suicide bomber was a man, ground. Instead fighting escalated in the but did not identify him. north, pa.rt of the region the rebels want to 
On Wednesday. the government said it turn into an independent state for the Tamil was shelving a Norwegian peace initiative minority. aimed at ending the The government's aban­Tamil separatists' war, doning the peace initiative which began in 1983 and "The stage for peace may be aimed at winning has killed more than the support of the majori­
is over." 
62,400 people. ty Sinhalese voters ahead 
Prime Minister of Tuesday's parliamen­Ratnasiri tary elections. Wickramanayaka said it Most Sinhalese and the
Ratnasiri Wickramanayaka 
was closing the doors on powerful Buddhist clergy 
Prime Minister 
peace talks and would oppose peace talks with "eradicate" the leader of the rebels. the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam. The last time the government held peace 
"The stage for peace talks is over," talks with the guerrillas was in 1995, one Wickramanayaka said. year after Kumaratunga came to power. 
In the past eight months, Norwegian The talks failed after the rebels rejected the diplomats made several visits to Sri Lanka, government's autonomy offer and demand­but the peace process never got off the ed an independent Tamil state. 


AP 

It doesn't rain in your room. There's no traffic and 1W charge for parking. You don't have to line up or drive through. There's just you, an often-annoying mate or two. And your computer. That's the beauty part. 
Because there's your bank. Right on your computer. CampuBank is a real bank in every way. You get free basic checking, free savings, access to free ATM net­works and a CompuBank Visa check card you can use to buy books, clothes --just about anything. 
Everything you don't like about your bank ... 
Log on to www.CompuBank.com to find out more. Click on Circle of Friends™ to learn how you can earn $40 for each friend you refer who opens and funds a CompuBank account. 
You can open an account right online and approval can happen in minutes. Or call us at at 888-479-9292. 
We just may turn out to be your favorite roommate. 
'",.,_,, 
·· , · .. we don't have that:· 
'•,., ,..a •" •~ ,,,.,..... ,,,,,,,w,,."· -.. ....,......... ,,,,,.,.,-•:-_•'«, ,,,.,.,;·· 
e~egeforjJj.oom 
The Marketplace 


Houses for Rent lBRHOMES 
1210 Cedar St. $390/Mth 
?'BRHOMES 1337 Fremont $S50 /Mth Sl9 Chlca10 $550/Mtb I BR APTS -MlSHWAKA 314 Wells -$100/Wk t-800·328-7368 

A Division of Culver Development 
Attention Students: Looking for Flexible Days & Hours? 
We are looking for people with good communication skills to offer products & services on behalfofmajor insu,.--aace & credit card companies. No experience necessaryL 
We offer the following: *$7.50-$10.00/Hour *Flexible Schedules *Evening and Day shifts *Paid Vacations/Holidays *Optional Saturdays *Incentives/Raises *Supervisory & Management 
opportunities 
1 (888) 801-JOBS 
Just 35 minutes from campus! 
EOE 

,------------------------------------------­
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

page 16 BSERVER Friday, October 6, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
r.O. Box Q, Norre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHJl'F Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Tim Lane  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Christine Kraly  Brian Kessler  

Nt.-WS EDITOR: Anne, Marie Macringly V1FWP0INT EDITOR: Lila Haughey Sl'ORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith 
SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Molfy McVoy 
r110To EDITOR: Elizabeth Lang 

ADYFRTISING MANAGU: Pat Perers 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avila SvsnMs ADMINISTllAT0R: Mike Gunville 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner 
CONTROLI.ER: Bob Woods 
GRAPIIKS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANACF.R/Gt:NERAL INF0......... , .... 631-7471 FAX. .. .. .. . . .. .. .. ... . .......... 631-6927 ADVERTISING .....................................631-6900/8840 
observer<£1)darwin.cc.nd.ed(I EDITOR IN CHn,:r......................... , .............. 631-4542 MANAGING EDITORiAsST. ME...................631-4541 
BUSINESS OmcE... ·················••···········"····631-5313 NEWS........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VU:Wl'OINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SPORTS......................................................631-4543 observer.spom. l@nd.edu SCF.Nl........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l @nd .....du SAINT MARv'S ... .........................................631-4324 obscrver.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO ....... ~,· ......., •.• ...........................631-8767 S\'STI:MS/Wf.11 ADMINISTRATORS.. ..............631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at lmp:llob5trve,.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, featu«·s and opinion column,, as wdl as c.uroons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SVRFTO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 

advertise for pclicies 
online features for spe­

and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer 

articles published after 
10 meet the editors and 

August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily nc,wspaper published in print and online by the smdents of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institurion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the au th ors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space ts available to all readers. The free cxpre.sion of all opinion> through leuers is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact inform:.uion 
Q"miom rrgarding Oburver po/ides rhould be direct• «I10 Editor i,1 Chir/Mik, Connolly. 
Voice opinions in voting boOth 
On Tuesday, Nov. 7, months of cam­Dame and Saint Mary's students to voice paigning by Governor George W. Bush. their opinions in the coming election. Vice President Al Gore, Ralph Nader and Many college students say they don't other candidates and interest groups vote because the candidates do not will come to a close. address issues that are However, recent polls relevant to students' of young voters ages OJhe concerns. The candi­
userver

18-24 predict that dates in the 2000 cam­months of campaign­paign, however, have ing will have had little addressed several effect on this group. important issues that
Editorial 
The primary poll con­ducted by MTV and the I lenry J. Kaiser Family Foundation shows increased apathy with only 50 percent of voters under 25 registered and only 46 percent of those registered planning to vote. 
Despite this apathy, the same poll showed that young voters have strong opinions on the election issues. With predictions of voter indifference directed at the college students' age bracket, it becomes even more imperative for Notre arc of value to stu­
dents' futures. 

Many of these campaign issues are fre­quent topics in campus discussions. Abortion rights, gun-control. student financial aid and Social Security have all gained a growing audience on these campuses because of the Catholic nature of the colleges and recent national events. 
Financing education is a tremendous expense to parents and to students, and the candidates' approaches to loans, savings plans and tax deductions are important. A percentage of student pay­checks goes to Social Security. Though students are paying now, there are no guarantees that the funds will be around when students retire many years down the road. 
There are numerous proponents of a woman's right to choose on both cam­puses. however. many more foel that abortion is wrong and should not be legally practiced. If students truly feel passionate about this issufi, they must speak out in the voting booth. 
The need for students to voice their opinions of today's issues and choose a candidate rellecting their belief's is important. But beyond that, a strong turnout at the polls by this age group is important for the future. If candidates sec that younger voters represent a large block of votes, they will more likely address issues relatod to younger voters in the future. 
Evaluating the first debate 
It ended in a tie. Each side declared vic­tory after the first presidential debate between Al Gore and George W. Bush. It was as though each candidate had kissed his sisters -this time without one being more passionate than the other. 
What some had touted as the clash of the titans turned out to be more like a conflict in the class­room. The class nerd who strains to answer every ques­tion had been rated equal to the !'rat boy whose academic deficiencies are masked by his class­room pranks and personality. It was as though both had eaten paste from the art supply -one because he liked it, the other because it fit his reputation of being mischievous. 
Obviously, each contender scored plus­es while accomplishing specific goals, but both were also awarded demerits for mis­stating facts, stumbling on presentation and exhibiting uneasiness and poor body language. The vice president demonstrat­ed that he is a detailed policy wonk who passionately puts his heart and soul into the debate process. On the other hand, the governor proved that he could hold his own on the stage despite some weak­nesses in details and his inability to con­vey humor. 
As usual, the debate simply reinforced notions the majority of viewers held about the two candidates prior to the event. In a post-debate poll, 96 percent had not changed their minds while only 3 percent admitted that the debate had changed their votes. Most of the undecid­ed voters needed to view another debate for more information or to further evalu­ate th'e candidates. 


Gore could have done better by limiting his expressions and reactions when Bush was speaking. Gore was under the impression that one of the ground rules of the debate had indicated that the non­speaking candidate would be off camera when the other spoke. Anyone accept the theory that another campaign mole selected the camera angles? 
Gore could have taken advantage of at least two situations much more effective­ly. First, when Bush said a "governor" does certain things during a crisis, Gore could have begun by saying, "Well, a president does these certain things dur­ing a crisis." 
Secondly, when Bush kept harping on Gore's eight-year failure of leadership to secure prescription drug coverage and other accomplishments, Gore should have said, "Let me tell you what we have accomplished by extending across the isle and working with Republicans. We bal­anced the budget, reformed welfare, passed the Brady gun control legislation and major crime prevention legislation." 
Bush too could have better taken advantage of certain moments in the debate. 
He should drop references to Gore's "invention of the calculator," fuzzy math and Gore's personal credibility, especially since Gore has effectively portrayed those as personal attacks. Polls in Michigan have indicated that 48 percent of voters believe Bush is more negative compared to only 28 percent who call Gore's cam­paign negative. Undecided voters despise negativity, regardless of whether or not the perception is justified. 
The governor also needed to better defend his tax cuts in response to Gore. 
He let Gore pound the "highest one per­cent receives 43 percent of the tax cut" phrase no less than seven times through­out the evening without passionately countering the point. And at times, Bush failed to string sentences together to coherently articulate his views. 
While all polls showed Gore winning the debate in the minds of the public, Bush adequately survived the debate and exceeded expectations. Since Bush's expectations were so low coming into the first debate, polls show that he favorably surprised at least a third of' the viewing public. However, the downside for him now is that he has proven he can stand on the stage, and a future gaffe will be more devastating for him compared to one in the first debate when tlw public exp,iCted him ·10 do worse thari hi~;" perfor~ mance. 
The bottom line for Bush is that his task is more di!licult as the challenger. In order to convince voters to "kick the scoundrels out," he must articulate com­plicated issues more corrnctly and more effectively while avoiding a backlash from the voters. l le cannot suggest that the Russians help negotiate when they hold difforing goals than we do. Most impor­tantly, he cannot continue to tie in the debates, which is an advantage to Gore. 
While the next two debate formats are less formal and theoretically favor Bush. substance will play an important role during those events. Women who favor Gore's positions have provided the advan­tage thus far. Gore's direct appeal to them in the first debate positions him to pull away in the polls alter the second debate. Like it or not, the class nerd is currently leading the frat boy in a presi­dential contest where substance is presently outpacing personality. 
Gary J. Caruso. Notre !Jame '73. serves in President Clinton's administration as a Congressional and Public Affairs Director and assists Vice President Gore's White House Empowennenl Commission. I/is column appears every other Friday, and he can be reached al I lottline@aol.com. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and nol those of The Observer. 
DILBERT  SCOTT ADAMS  
YOUR OfFICE. IS TOO FAR FR.OM THE EXECUTIVE. OFFICES.  THEY ARE ACTIVELY FOR.GETTING 'l'OUR NAME EVEN AS WE &PEAK. IT'$ GOING ... GOING ...  CAROL.WE HAVE TO MOVE MY OFFICE!  

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Too bad all the people who know how to run the country are 
driving taxi cabs and cutting hair." 
George Burns comedian 


IEWPOINT 
O
TH[ 

Friday, October 6, 2000 BSERVER page 17 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Taking steps to further race relations on campus 
Earlier today while studying, I couldn't help but overhear an interesting conver­sation a couple tables over concerning one Notre Dame student's 'ethnic heritage and the obstacles she faces to gain acceptance in the white-dominated culture of the U.S. and particularly on the Notre Dame campus. 
I realize that I am in the cultural and social majority here at the University. I'm your average white guy. So while I can't relate first hand with social issues that a minority at Notre Dame may need to deal with, I'd like to think that I'm at least appreciative of a minority's struggles on such a white dominated campus, and I acknowledge the difficulties of such a student here at ND. 
However. after listening to parts of the conversation I was dismayed at the stereotypes and generalizatioris the student was making about white Notre Dame students. Throughout the conversation, the student commented that the white stu­dents here are not as appreciative of their education as minorities are, that white students are not as morally strong as the minorities, and that white students are lazy. 
Furthermore, she said that white Notre Dame students are arrogant and ignorant and that they always seek the easy way out instead of striving for personal growth. 
I am sure that students of this description exist on this campus, in fact [ know some myself, but for this woman to make such a generalization is ridiculous and completely counterproductive. It is insulting to me for her to question my moral fiber or my motivation, and it is insulting to claim that I take my education for granted simply because of the color of my skin. 
The purpose of this letter is not to start a controversy, but rather to point out (to myself first and foremost) just how much work race relations need here on cam­pus. It saddens me to think that such remarks could come from a young women who is the president of her ethnic organization. 
To this person, please realize how counterproductive it is to hold such stereo­types when seeking to dispell your own racialstereotypes and gain acceptance for who you are. How can you ask others to drop racial stereotypes if you are not will­ing to do so yourself? 
And to the rest of us, the fact that students at Notre Dame do hold these opinions means that maybe it's time we took race relations into our own hands. We all should seek to learn about and gain acceptance of other ethnicities than our own. So the next time you hear about a student cultural festival going on, I sincerely ask you to consider attending. 
Without such effort, race relations aren't likely to improve. 
TJ Pillari Sophomore Knott Hall October 5, 2000 


Women's Resource Center clarifies probation status 

We would like to clarify a few issues WRC in various ways, one of which is the raised in the Oct. 3 In Focus article about issue of censorship was discussed in the the Women's Resource Center. ("Women's article. Out of respect for the decision Resource Center still feels probation's made by the University is 1997, however, sting") Yes, the WRC was on probation for the WRC abstains from comment on these anjncident which occurred several years issues pertaining to freedom of speech. ago. I lowever, the WRC is not currently A11yone interested in the full story of the on probation; in !act, it has not been since 1997 probation hearing is welcome to early summer following the 1998-1999 come to the Center to read an official inci­school year. With the support of th1:; dent summary for further clarifications. Faculty Senate the probation was lifted a year early, and the WRC stands in full ND Women's Resource Center compliance with University regulations. Ocrober 5, 2000 . The probation does continue to affect the 
GUEST COLUMN 
Falsely quoting God has gotten out of hand 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 

Rejoice, ye mortal citizens of the earth, for God hath chosen once more to speak unto thee! 
But fear not, humble humans. This time, the Almighty has opted to skip 
Laura Ewald

the burning bush­es, flashes of light and rolling thun­
der of yore. Indiana Daily ls He speaking Student through prophets? No! Writing on stone tablets? Of course not. These davs, God chooses to commu­nicate with.his children via billboard. The Almighty apparently is also a fan of mouse pads, magnet.c;, hooked rugs, welcome mats, screen savers and (gulp} bumper stickers. I guess God's PR team thought he needed to get with the times and adopt a new "millennium" image. That whole omniscient thing just wasn't cutting it anymore. Accordingly, God has jazzed up his delivery since Biblical times. This time around, God has developed a taste for sarcasm, veiled threats and tongue-in­cheek humor when dealing with his creation. Here I am, a lifelong Christian, pas­sionate about my faith -can it be that I've been misguided about my God all along? Did I miss the God boat? I thought he was wise, compassionate, loving, peaceful and kind -and now He turns out to be annoyingly trite? I am sadly disappointed: Apparently, God has gone back on that whole "free will" thing. He's not into personal rela­tionships anymore. Nowadays, he's into shoving his sarcastic message down our disenchanted throats. It's a sad day for humanity when God is glib. Either God has changed a lot in the past five years or so, or someone else is using his name. Maybe I shouJd have done some investigative reporting before writing this column. I could call up the ad agencies mass producing his "mes­sages" and the billboard companies plastering his name all over town. Perhaps he did stroll into a bumper sticker company and order the mass­production of cute phrases such as "Don't make me come down there." As if he's not down here already! "Your body is a temple ... right?" ­God. "See you Sunday." -God. Maybe God really does take time out of his busy schedule to put up big signs stating "Is that your final answer?" Because I'm sure he watches "Who Wants to be a Millionaire" to break up the monotony of being an omnipotent 
being who created the universe and loves everyone. 
Or maybe I'm right, and God's new smart aleck ad campaign is really the work of humans. I'm not saying that spreading God's message is bad -I'm just saying perhaps it's not wise to put words into God's mouth. 
Really, is it fair to sign God's name to anything? IfI plastered a billboard up in town that said "Hey, Coach Knight ... r;orne back! -Myles Brand," I'm sure I'd get into all kinds of trouble. Just because you slap someone's name on a catch phrase doesn't mean it's true. We're talking legal issues here, people. I think it's high time God sued for libel. 
There are many ways to communi­cate God's message of peace and salva­tion without stooping to zingy one-lin­ers on bumper stickers. 
Perhaps friendship, fellowship and investing personal time are better ways to spread God's love. While some might think these God ad campaign messages are thought provoking or funny, others are turned off by sarcastic comments about one's spiritual life or lack there­of. 
rdon't want anyone to turn away from God because they view him as domineering or threaten­ing. As a Christian, I think such ads misrep­resent my views: God does not pander to popular cul­ture, at least in my expe­rience. 
He is some­times subtle, sometimes unmistakable, but ~n every way effective without resorting to being glib an pushy. 
If God has something to tell mankind, I'm sure he will find a way to do so. 
This article first appeared in the Indiana University newspaper the Indiana.Daily Student on Thursday, October 5, 2000 and is reprinted here courtesy ofU-WIRE. 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not those of The Observer. 
University's endowment doesn't need to be increased 
In my opinion, the article of the crisis in Notre Dame's finances announced by Father Malloy gives rise to some serious questions. 
First, how much of an endowment will satisfy Father Malloy'? The figure of 3 billion in the endowment fund leads one to think that Notre Dame will not be satisfied until it reaches the amount of the federal debt. 
Does father Malloy wish to be the wealthiest university in all the world? Or does he expect the alumni to give eternally to Notre Dame? As it once was said, "what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and lose its soul?" Just wondering. 
Michael Connolly 
Rockville, Maryland Oc<0ber 4, 2000 


C 
s
en@ 
page 18 Friday, October 6, 2000 
Most of us have seen him -the infamous man at the edge of the road. We have all pondered his purpose at this point in his life. What is it, exactly, that possesses an elderly man to sit on the side of a highway, sur­rounded by flags, waving to passersby? 
If you're anything like I am, your initial reaction to this sight was extreme amusement, followed by intense curiosity. And perhaps there was a sneaking suspicion of some sort of lunacy lurking beneath those flags. 
Vpon realizing that this pillar of the South Bend community was a permanent fixture -weather per­mitting -on the east side of State Route 933, I set out to uncover the mystery of the man known affectionate­ly by students flanking both sides of his post as "The Flag Guy." 
Who is this valiant man who, day after day, year after year, sits watching the world go by? Just what compels him to do so? This patron saint of north-and southbound traffic is none other than Brother Edward Courtney-a retired Holy Cross Brother. a World War II veteran. ex-salesman and sage who readily espouses the knowledge his 82 years of living have afforded him. 
One pursuit, however, extracts perhaps the most time and energy from Edward's life -his vigil held on the side of the road. For 11 years. he has staked his nags and his folding chair in that same spot and waved al the traf­fic passing by. He does this in honor of the American nag, "Old Glory," . the same nag for which he and others fought in WWII. This tradition began in 1989 in response to a decision handed down by the U.S. Supreme court regarding the burning of the American f1ag. 
In 1984. a man by the name of Greg Johnson burned the l1ag at the Republican National Convention in Dallas. Texas. The burning was in protest of the United States· lack of support for the indigent and poor of the world. Johnson was arrested and charged, and the Texas Court of appeals opened the case of Texas vs. Johnson -a case so controversial it made its way to the Supreme Court. In a 5-4 decision, it was ruled that the desecration of the American flag was in keeping with the free speech clause of the first amend­ment and was beyond prosecution. 
What the court called a "symbolic action" on Johnson's part, along with the decision of the court, did not sit well with Edward, a man who had not only served his own country in war. but in ministerial efforts towards helping other countries. 
Following the ruling, Edward bought his first flag to show his displeasure and to bring the people together. In the same way that Johnson originally used the American flag as a "symbolic action," Edward has used the flag as his own symbol. a testament to the power and influence one person may possess. 
The history and progression of Edward's life and fair-weather, peaceful protest fill a glass case within the sitting room of Columba Hall. Among the tattered leaves and browning envelopes lie pictures of a young Edward Courtney at bat, standing with his brother, his senior yearbook picture, too. Here you can find letters. awards, discharge papers, Army bars, honorary citi-­zenships -even a note handwritten on gold-stamped Air Force One letterhead from President George Bush. 
"In 11 years. the enthusiasm hasn't changed," he says. There are bound volumes of letter he has received voicing people's support, and many more are delivered each year. 
Overwhelmingly, the positive responses to Edward's subtle statement woven in the cloth of his flags have been emphatic. "Some people bring me food and something to drink," he. says. "Lots of people stop just to talk to me. They can all solve their own problems; they just need to find some­one to listen." "And one time, when I fell asleep in my 
chair, someone called security," he adds. "I woke up to ND security shaking me and asking me if I was alive. Then, next thing I knew, there were ambulances and sheriff's cars around me. All I did was fall asleep!" 
The negative responses Edward has received tend to come in the form of obscenities shouted by young men hanging out of passing vehicles. "I just wave and giye them the thumbs up just the same," Edward explains. "If there's one thing f learned as an umpire, it's that you never respond in kind. Plenty of people will be rude to you. You just have to turn it around on them." 
No matter what the instance, Edward keeps an opti­misti.c outlook. Once, when he forgot to bring his flags and chair home at night, he returned in the morning to find them gone. 
"I don't really mind," he says, "as long as whoever took them got good use out of them." 
Though some may not agree with his beliefs, none can argue that Edward brings smiles to the faces of South Bend travelers each day he is there with his flags. This alone is enough for him. "You don't have to be a big d·eal; you don't tiave to have a Ph.D. or an 
LL. B. or be the president to be able to influence peo-
KEEPING 
Known to most simply as '~ Courtney shares tales ofhi: and his 1 1 years spent l 
\ 
\ 
I 
.I 
j . 
. , 

pie," he says. "I have no Brother Edward Courtn degree; I'm just a·high 
vigil he has held with h 
school graduate, that's all. But even I know what one for 11 years. Howeve person can do. We influ­
Portland (bottom phot, 
ence other people every 
of accomplishments
day -whenever we smile 
or take the time to say salesman, to s hello. People don't realize that. you know." 
The sight of Edward and photohis flags has come to rep­resent more than just his AMA beliefs to many people. For Edward, it is no longer a sole crusade for Old Glory that he leads; it is a min­istry for the people who stop to speak with him. request his prayers and elicit his counsel, and serves to back his strongest belief -not that we shouldn't allow the desecration of the flag, but that we should never underestimate the power of one individual. 
"People see the flag and it's going tu influence them. When they see the lone figure sitting there. it's going to influence people for the good," he says. 
Edward never expected to be the public figure he is today. But he tries to use his appearances on televi­sion and covers in various media to continue to influ­ence people positively. 
As Edward passes the hours in his well broken-in chair. he fights fatigue with smiles, and boredom with the comfort of honks and waves returned. He lives his 
personal motto to the fullest every day. Edward feels 
C 
s
en@ 
Friday, October 6, 2000 page 19 
HE FLAG 
e Rag Guy,' Brother Edward life, love, his faith in people nder the flags on SR 933 

I\, 
y is most well-known for the ·s flags on the side ofthe road , since his boyhood days in 
s) he has acquired a long list 
, ranging from veteran, to hool commissioner. 
. 
and text by DA GRECO 
Edward if he were beginning to show the first signs of wear after all he has accomplished. 
Back in 1941. Edward was a young man with a high school degree and a job as umpire for a semi-profes­sional baseball team in Portland, Ore. Come October of that year, a draft notice whisked Edward away to the European theater of WWII. After four years of service, Edward received an honorable discharge and returned home with eight medals and live bronze stars. 
When asked what then prompted him to enter the seminary, Edward's first response was "I don't know." After a moment's contemplation, however, he went on to explain that he always wanted to work with youth and that he felt the "good God" had directed his life thusly. 
"I just seemed to be set this way. going this way in my life, towards this kind of a life," he added. 
Edward, the third oldest of nine children in a Catholic 
family, had always known religion as a comfort. 
However, the assuredness with which he now 
regards his admission into the Junior Rate Academy 
seminary in Watertown, Wisc. was not always so 
clear. After three weeks in the school, Edward decid­
ed he could no longer take the life of a man of the 
cloth. As he ascended the stairs to retrieve his trunk 
full of belongings, he was stopped by a professor who 
had never before spoken to Edward. He felt it was "a 
providential occurrence" that found the Brother 
imploring Edward to stay another six months. He 
knew then that "God had something for me to do in 
this sort of a life, something no one else could do." 
Edward did stay; he took his final vows in 1947 and 
now celebrates 53 years as a professed brother. 
Edward spent several years at the novitiate in 
Rolling Prairie, Ind., before making his first move to 
South Bend. Edward knew he was not interested in 
teaching, so when an opportunity opened for a door­
to-door salesman for Ave Maria Press out of Notre 
Dame, he followed. 

After 20 years, he left this position to take on the 
task of commissioner at the all-male boarding school, 
LeMans Academy, in Ind. Ten years later, he made 
his final return to Notre Dame and joined the 
Brothers at Columba Hall. 

''I've had my ups and downs like anybody else, but 
it's been a very rewarding life," he reflects. "I was meant to go this way, to dedicate myself to the reli­gious life. It can be hard, though. When you make a commitment, it pinches sometimes. Married people experience that after the first few years; things begin to pinch. We Brothers understand. We all make com­mitments -married people, Brothers, Sisters. But once you make a commitment, there is no backing off" 
Now retired, Edward's days are filled with swim­ming, bicycling, stamp collecting and spending time with people. While he is sure the Brotherhood is his calling, he does not consider himself a highly religious man. 
"I don't know if I'm much of a Monk or anything," he says laughing, "but I belong with the people because my life is dedicated to the people; wherever they are, I am always available." 
In our conversations, Edward regaled tales of stu­dents, University employees and fellow veterans with whom he has maintained contact over the years. He even told of the one brush with romance he had with a younger girl before he was drafted. 
"She was a wonderful girl and we had a beautiful relationship," he reminisces. "But she hardly said any­thing. I never knew what she felt. Then I went away for the war, and she found someone else she liked bet­ter, I guess. That was the one little bit of romance I had. Boy, she was beautiful. I think I'll try to find her when I go back to Portland next." 
"See? I just like to keep up with people, you know. I care for them," Edward added. For Edward, people are his livelihood. 
As I sat speaking with him and the other Brothers at Columba Hall over dinner the other evening, I was not so much impressed by Edward's 11 year vigil for Old Glory. What impressed me more was the intelligence and easygoing nature of this man with whom I kept company. The meeting with Edward was far from what I had expected. I thought I would be speaking briefly to a man regarding that which he is most rec­ognized for -the flags. 
Instead, I found myself discussing life, politics, love and religion with a man who spoke assuredly from experience far greater than I have encountered before. Now, in retrospect, what strikes me the most from our talks is not the decorations and accomplish­ments of Edward as a veteran, not ihe service as a Holy Cross Brother but the advice he gave as a human. 
"We concentrate too much on the negative things we do," he feels. "But you're influencing people's lives and doing more good than you really know. Don't ever think you're not doing anything worthwhile." 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
-

"it is better to wear out than rust out." 
The energetic manner in which he communicates with those around him stands testament to his immense caring for others and his daily activities prove that he is far from the slightest tinge of rust. 
Though, you could not find fault with 
-~----­

page 20 Friday, October 6, 2000
The Observer . SPORTS 
MEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
Kangaroos look to pounce on Dawgs for playoff spot 
..... 
By JAMES VERALDJ, TODD NIETO and MATT HARRIGAN 
Spom W ri1crs 
Playoffs or bust? 
That is the question racing the Alumni Dawgs and the Keough Kangaroos when they meet Sunday. Both teams are approaching this as a must win game, a win they need in order to continue their season after fall break. 
The Dawgs are coming off a 13-0 loss to Keenan. while the Kangaroos were trounced by Dillon, 22-0. The losses left the Dawgs in a tie for sec­ond place, and the Kangaroos in fourth. 
Although Keough still holds the fourth and final playoff spot, it is just a half game up on Stanford and one game up on two other teams meaning a loss here could end its sea­son sooner then expected. 
"It is a must win for us," saitl Keough captain Ryan Yorkey. "We can't take the teams below us for granted. We need a win." 
In order to get that win, Keough needs to return to the combination of quarterback Andy !less and wide out Brian Adams. which has accounted for all of the Kangaroos points th1.1s far this season. 
Alumni will counter this offense with a strong, hard hitting defense that was sur­prisingly hit for two scores last week against Keenan 
Offensively, the Dawgs need to get back on track before it is too late. 
"We had a good practice on Monday. We got back to not complicating things," said Alumni quarterback Chris Cottingham. "We all came together and worked as a unit. We have the individual skills to compete, we just need to come together so we can dominate with our backs 
and receivers against Keough." 
Defensively, the Kangaroos are led by defensive end John Barber. They will be looking for a good performance from their secondary, as Alumni will try and take advantage of a solid receiving core. 
The key to victory for the Kangaroos is intensity, some­thing they lacked last week against the Big Red. 
"It will take intensily to win," said Yorkey. "We did not have it against Dillon; we got beat in every aspect. We will be successful if we have intensity. The mental aspects must come first. If our men­tality is set, then the physical will come." 
DIiion vs. Morrissey 
On Sunday at 1 p.m. at the Stepan fields. Dillon Hall faces Morrissey Manor in a match-up that will prove to be both exciting and enter­taining. Dillon llall comes into Sunday's game with a 3-0 record while Morrissey is still looking for its first win. 
Dillon's hopes of winning its fourth game of the season appear promising as wide receiver Pat Esper returns after he was sidelined with a hamstring injury. At 6-2 and 200 pounds, Esper is a threat to Morrissey's defense. 
Hunningback Jason Visner and quarterback Tayt Odom are also key offensive players for Dillon Hall. 
"This week, we will be focusing on the running game," said Dillon captain Joe Parker. 
Morrissey will prove to be a challenge to Dillon Hall despite its 0-2 record. Quarterback Mark Berndt and tailback Edward Hernandez 
are  two  key  players  for  
Morrissey.  
Dillon  Hall  is  looking  

toward the playoffs, but is 


An Alumni running back speeds past a Keenan defender during Keenan's 13-0 victory last Sunday. Alumni takes on Keough on Sunday. 
focused on Sunday's game. last week. It toppled Alumni Stanford. However, the Angry "We love to play every game with powerful offensive line Mob feel it has united as a and are looking to run and play and look to do the same team with last week's effort throw," said Parker. this week against O'Neill. against Stanford, and it looks The Knights also got a good to turn things around and game from the defense, a key make a push to finish the sea­
Keenan vs. O'Neill 
part to winning in the play­son strong.
The O'Neill Angry Mob 
offs, and something that will O'Neill will be ready to take
looks to salvage its season as 
be crucial in late October. on the powerhouse Knights
it faces the Keenan Knights 
"We want to improve week come Sunday afternoon.
Sunday at Stepan fields. 
to week and enter the play­"We will be the powerhouse
O'Neill has gotten off to a 0­
offs with a full head of on Sunday," said the Angry
2 start this year and will be 
steam," Keenan captain Herb Mob's Mike Brown. "We came
matched up against a strong 
Giorgio said. together in practice this
Keenan team that is poised to 
O'Neill, on the other hand, week, and our offense will put
enter the playoffs at 2-1. 
has yet to win this season and some points _on the board.
Keenan is coming off a 
is coming off an 18-6 loss to We'll do well."
strong showing in a 13-0 win 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r-m, at the Nurre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without 'issuing refunds. 
-CLASSIFIEDS 
Dad needs 2 tix to Stanford game! 94 Mitsubishi Galant Katie like em bad ... TLF • dude, do you skateboard? Ckrosey@mindspring.com Black/Sunroof/195KLOST & FOUND WANTED $2350 PERKY!!!!! chrissy poo • i was going to put a 
2 ND/USC Tix + Airfare Call (219) 247-1983 movie quote in here for you, but LOST: CAMERA IN BLACK CASE GOTO alumnind.edu/-ndc_satc WILL BUY USED CARS CALL 272· Rafter they're all too vulgar! IN THE HAMMES BOOKSTORE 4776. ATTN: FACULTY & STAFF 
ON MONDAY, 9/25, PLEASE CALL FOR SALE. FOOTBALL TICKETS, Great house for sale by owner, 1 Tweeking the .. #@"$1&!!!1! agi: how was lenny? BARBARA HUTSON AT ALL GAMES E272-7233 Shilt Mgr University Park Mall mile north of campus in "Fernwood juwanna watch it sometime? 1-732-257·0881 Auntie Anne's Pretzels up to $8, at Cleveland" lnterhall football is the joy of my life CALL COLLECT NEED: 4 Stanford tickets for family. 20-30 hrs, call Pat or Kathy 21 g. Days 243-6040 ext. 231. what does that mean? 
Call John, 4-2795. 271-8740 Will e-mail amenities. Wednesday nights just aren't the how am i supposed to FOUND/I dhickey@carletoninc.com same this year. interpret that? Fossil Steel watch found outside of Selling Florida fall break package Tutoring needed in 
Rolf's Center. Please call 631-w/ Navy game tix. Win2000/Network-MCSE. Videotape your next on or off cam-Without Dylan, Donna, David, and quit playing games with my heart. 3825. Call Kaileen 243•9462. Please call 277-4443 pus party! Val all up in my hair. www.icecoldvideo.com missing a whiteboard? HELP! I need 2 Stantord tickets• Wanted: Joyce South Parking Pass The Peach Pit has closed down ... TICKETS Call Kate at 4-3697 for Air Force game. come play dirty $ this saturday to Call Jake at 634-0960. Which just brings about a really buy it back 
PERSONAL 
WANTED huge tear. ND FOOTBALL TKTS FOR RENT Quality Copies, Quickly' whomp, whomp, waaaahhhhhh 289-9280 FOR SALE We're open early, late & weekends. hey ck-DUH 
ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE THE COPY SHOP ever since you've been hanging SELLING ANO CLOSE TO CAMPUS SPRING BREAK 2001 -Jamaica, LaFortune Student Center i sit two stories above the street, 'round ... i've been trying to figure ND FOOTBALL TKTS http.//mmmrentals.homepage.com/ Cancun, Barbados, More. Hinng Phoe 631-COPY out what i can say to you .. 251-1570 email: mmmrentals@aol.com Campus Reps •2 Free Trips! Free it's awful quiet here since love fell 
232-2595 Meals-Book by 11 /3. Call 1-800-Quality Copies, Quickly! asleep, hey shady .. baby i got your money VICTORY TKTS 426-7710 or sunsplashtours.com. BUY"SELL'TRADE That Pretty Place, Bed and Music, is for pee-po. there's life down below me though. the day our kids play this at ND FOOTBALL Breakfast Inn has space available #1 Spring Break 2001 NCancun, freshman o, we'll know lo' she' it 232-0964 for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms Mazatlan, acapuloo, Jamaica, I'm gonna kill Jose for putting that kids are walking home from school. was one helluva idea www victorytickets com with private baths, $80-$115, Florida & S.Padre Reliable TWA song in my head. 
Middlebury, 30 miles trom campus flights Best Prices. Earn $$$ or good song, manda panda but i got dibs BUY/SELL ND TICKETS Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418· FREE trips-call for details! Only 9 days until Vegas baby.' on the desk chair 273-3911 9487 1 .800.SURFS UP WWW studentex-what kind of crazy prof assigns 
press.com I can't believe it's almost here. FOUR papers for Brownie night? 
ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED 3, 4 & 6-bedroom alumni-owned midterm week?! what's that? 
A.M. • 232-2378 homes for rent 1992 CHEVY LUMINA, GREAT But there's still 3 papers until then ... I haven't been there in a long time. P M. -288-2726 Please CONDITION $3,500; 272-4776. move out, girlfriend. 
call Jason Katie D is the queen of production no one wants you here. a present? ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE @ 240-0322 '93 Olds Ciera. 87k. showroom con• for me? AM • 232·2378 tor homes c d1tion (no rust), needs nothing, Backpage features by freshmen ... mbplb -you define you shouldn't have! P M • 288-2726 lose to campus. $3600/obo 272-8333 gotta love the 0 .. non-confronatational oh .... you didn't.. 
Friday, October 6, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 





The Congregation of Holy Cross Welcomes its Newest Seminarians 
"We wished to abandon all to follow Christ." 
Matt Biergans Constitutions ofthe Congregation ofHoly Cross, 1.8 
Grand Ledge, Mich. Moreau Seminary ND '97 




. :-·.-·:: ..._ ..-,:-.. 
~,iL--·.::·-__ ,. '=-=~_(:.:::~;,:;;;; 






Brian Carpenter 
Rochester, NY Moreau Seminary 

lli\ IJ·iLN:p '9;.S.,lli!l! i, _:.J ·­
Old College Moreau Seminary 
For more information on our formation programs, contact: 
Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. or Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 



www.nd.edu/ -vocation 
ANSWER~ THE CALL'<!::,/ 









.... 

-
-

__ page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 6, 2000 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
Lyons faces Pangborn in must-win contest 
By BRIAN KRONK, LIA MIL­HOAN and JOE LICANDRO 
Sports Wrirers 
Lyons faces Pangborn in a do­or-die playoff situation Sunday at 1 pm at McGlinn fields. 
In order to qualify for the playoffs. Lyons must win, com­bined with either a Cavanaugh defeat of Lewis or a Pasquerilla East win against Howard on Sunday. 
Lyons faces an interesting challenge: if it holds Pangborn scoreless Sunday, it will enter the playoff picture with all three victories and all three defeats coming via the shutout. 
Whatever the outcome Sunday, Lyons is excited about its playoff hopes. 
"This team is definitely excited about a chance to win our last th~ec games," said Lyons coach Michael Barranda. "We are cer­tainly excited about our chances, as this is definitely a different team than before." 
Meanwhile, Pangborn enters Sunday with a disappointing record of0-5. 
Captain Erin Piroutek express­es some hope after Thursday's loss lo Lewis. 
"We played the best game of 
. the season thus far. The defense had a shutout in the first half. We also had a new quarterback Jill Chlebek. who played well fo; her first start." she said. "She'll be SUJ.~ing again on Sunday, so the offense hopes to improve, now that they have some experi­ence with the new setup." 
Pangborn's defense enters Sunday's matchup with some strong contenders, including defe~sive back Libby Cunnmgham, coming oIT a solid defensive performance Thursday againsl Lewis and Piroutek, who added two s~cks. 
Lyons also hopes to get solid performances on defense by captain Lisa Thomas and line­backer Irene Onyeagbako in order to defeat Pangborn and have a chance for postseason 
-
play. 
Howard vs. Pasquerilla East 
On Sunday the Ducks of Howard will take on the Pasquerilla East Pyros in a 1 
p.m. match up at the McGlinn Fields. 
-
Terifay and senior Stacy Leicht 
to have a productive afternoon 
an..d set the tempo on offense. 
~veryone h~ to come togeth­
~r. said captain Stacy Uecht. 
The defense has to be tough 
and the offense needs to be crisp 
and march up the field." 
Lewis vs. Cavanaugh 
Matt Lovecchio is not the only 
Notre Dame freshman quarter­
back who has a big game this 
weekend. The playoff hopes of 
the Lewis Chicks lie squarely on 
the shoulders of freshman quar­
terback Erin Nasrallah. 
With a 2-3 record, Lewis' only 
chan?e of !Ilaking the playoffs is 
to wm this weekend against 
Cavanaugh at 2 p.m. at McGlinn 
Fields. 
Nasrallah certainly has her 
work cut out for her because 
Cavanaugh boasts a strong 4-1 
record. Cavanaugh's only loss is 
at the hands of defending cham­
pion Welsh. 
"We. understand that the next 
game IS essential for our playoff 
hopes. We have some confi­
dence ~ne,: beating Pangborn," 
she said. Everyone is playing 
their best right now." 
. Wh!le Nasrallah was impres­SIVe m Lewis' 14-0 win over Pangborn on Thursday night 
the _d~fe.nse was the key t~ Lewis victory. Lewis' heavy defensive pressure resulted in numerous quarterback sacks. 
While Lewis is fighting to make the playoffs, Cavanaugh h~s already achieved a playoff b;1fth after Thursday night's 18-0 vtctory against Pasquerilla East. 
Cavanaugh is eagerly looking to make a strong run in the play­offs, but understands the impor­ta~ce of this week's game. 
We want to win this weekend to continue our momentum going into the playofls," captain Amy Szestak said. "If we win this Sunday, we will have Cavanaugh's best record in the history of our dorm." 
Szestak attributesher team's success to strong coaching and great team depth. . "We have a very good coach­mg staIT. We work really well together, and everyone con­tributes. Our defense has been str?ng all season only giving up pomts to Welsh," she said. 

By JOHN BACSIK, CHRIS 
FREDERICO and LAUREN 
CONTI 
Sports Writers 

Both Off-campus and 
Pasquerilla West have had 
productive seasons. although 
m alternating fashion. 
Off-Campus started the sea­
son with a win and two ties 
and it enters Sunday's gam~ 
fresh off two wins against 
Farley and McGlinn. After a 
quick start to the season. PW's 
last two games have been 
scoreless ties, leaving them at 
2·0-3. 

"Entering the playoffs with 
three wins would be nice " 
said PW co-captain Amanda 
Gallen. "Our defense has been 
great all season, and the 
offense just needs a little 
spark." 

Gallen has been a staple on both sides of the field for the Purple Weasels. Joining her on offense are freshman quarter­back Leslie Scmhidt and tight end Kori Yelle. Yelle has allud­ed opposing defenses all sea­son for PW. 
Junior Kelly Dries has helped to make the PW defense something to be feared. Coach Tony Haldea has been happy with the team's effort. 
"Our defense has been phe­nomenal all year, reminiscent of the Minnesota Vikings' 'Purple People Eaters' of the 1970's. We're working on fine tuning the offense for the play­offs," he said. 
Beating Off-campus will be a formidable task for PW. Usually, 13 is an unlucky num­ber, but not when it's the total amount of points the Crime has allowed all season 
"We'.re taking this g~me just as serious as the others," said captain Marita Keane. "We've put together some good drives in ,the past few games, and we re looking to do the same thing here." 
The Crime offense is led by quarterback Jamie Stouffer and running back Francesca Delayo. 
Although Off-Campus doesn't boast the largest roster it remains effective because dr a number of ironwomen. 
"We have a solid core of 
The Ducks are coming off a tough 20-0 ~oss to Welsh Family Hall and bnng a 2-3 record into the game. 
Howard will look to quarter­back Jill Veselik and freshman wide receiver Elizabeth Klimek Klimek has been steady all sea~ son an Veselik has used her"Ver­satility to comrtibute all over the field. 
The Pyros enter the game with a 2-2 record. PE looks to sopho­rn ore quarterback Lindsay 
Expectant mother of twins with one year old child seeks child care assistance in Granger Good saltiry, Monday-Friday call Jasmin 277-5106 
GREAT WALl.J 
Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row Szechuan -Hunan -Cantonese -American Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days Lunch Spec,al$4.75 •· Mon . Fri 11 :30 . 3:00 PM Dinner Starting at $6.45 Sunday · Thursday 11 :30 AM • 10:00 PM Friday · Saturday 11 :30 AM . 1 l :OO PM 

Sunday Buffet Brunch • Every Sunday 11 a.m to 3 p.m. $8.95 for Adults $3.95 for Children under 10 
~22 Dixie Way, South Bend (219) 272-7376 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
Criine takes on Purple Weasels 
. EFf"EIIVEICEMT CoLD Fo1111ui.. 
; • ,Id in m:st ~ ~ or via cur , , JJi/ www.A1rbomeHealth.c • n,e,-: :1W, !;_1~;~ l-800-,90-9794 
~• •·• f',C !11111.!h. Oarllzu•, .1£ 

girls. and we don't sub-in every play." said Megan O'Gorman. "We're proud of how well we've been doing this season." 
Badin vs. McGlinn 

The Badin Bullfrogs and the McGlinn Shamrocks will battle it out in· the last game of the regular season Sunday at 4 
p.m. on McGlinn field. . The contest will_ be extremely important to Badm, as it must win to retain a chance of advancing to the playoff round. In addition to a big win, the Bullfrogs will need to get some help from BP. 
If Badin wins. and BP loses 
against Walsh, the Bullfrogs 
will secure the fourth and final 
spot in the playoffs. However 
if the Banshees win, they wili 
advance no matter what Badin 
does against McGlinn. In the 
event that BP plays to a tic, the 
team that has scored the most 
points during the season will 
advance, because Badin and 
BP tied each other earlier in 
the year. 

"We know we should have won Sunday, but a key play at the end of the game killed us " 
B~di~. ca~tain Tiffany Colo0 n 
said. We II just have to play our best this week and hope things work out for us." 
McGlinn, meanwhile will be playing purely fo; pride Sunday afternoon. 
Mathematically eliminated from· the playoffs, the S~amrocks would like to get a wm to have something to build on for next year. 
"We'd just like to get a win to m~tch last year's record," cap­!.am Jamie Glosser said. 
Although we haven't won any g~mes this year, we are happy with the way our season has gone. We've got a lot of young players, and we've made some solid improvements through the year. If we can end the season with a win, it could really build some momentum for next year." 
Breen-Phllllps vs. Walsh 

Breen-Phillips and Walsh will face off this Sunday in a 
game that could make or 
break the Banshees' chances 
for a playoff berth. 
"We're not really sure where 
we stand right now in terms of 
the playoffs," said Breen­
Phillips quarterback Katie 
McFarland. "There's been 
some speculation as to how 
teams will be chosen, because 
so many of us have such simi­
lar records. Right now, we're 
assuming that if we lose. we're 
out." 
Walsh. on the other hand 
will take a nothing-to-lose atti~ 
tude. 
"We don't need the win to 
make Ithe playoffs]." said 
Walsh receiver Kay Scanlan. 
"But we've tied in the past cou­
~le of g~mes, so we'd really 
hke a wm to help keep us in 
high spirits headed into the 
playoffs." 
The regular season play of 
both the Banshees (1-1-3), and 
the Wild Women(2-0-3), has 
been characterized by 
extremely strong defensive 
squads. 
Walsh. however, has seen their relatively young offense mature into oneof formidable strength. and it plans to con­tinue to rely on the plays the Wild Women have been run­ning well into the playoffs. 
"I don't think we'll be mak­ing any major offensive changes," said Scanlan. 
The Banshees. on the other h_and. were switching up offen­sive strategics as recently as their last game. McFarland believes they will continue to do so. 
"We're going into the game with a different focus, a couple new plays," she said. "We'll try to focus on our strengths." 
Though the Banshees need the win more so than their opponents, they aren't running scared. 
"We'll expect Walsh to be on the same level as us, especially as far as defense is con­cerned," McFarland said. 
The Wild Women, too, are ready for battle. "We'd really like to finish strong," Scanlan said. The game will take place at 3 
p.m. on McGlinn Field. 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 

FREMANTLE, AUSTRALIA 
"The Land Down Under" 
INFORMATION MEETING With Julliet Mayinja, Assistant Director Fr. Wilson Miscamble, C.S.C. 
Tuesday October 10, 2000 102 DeBartolo 4:45-5:45 P.M. 
APPLIC_ATION DEADLINE: DECEMBER I 2000 Applications available www/nd.edu/-intlst~d 
Friday, October G, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 


(?MPUStv11Nl5TRY 
. 

Dear Alumni & Friends, 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation to come together and celebrate the Eucharist this weekend. 
Stanford Football Weekend October 7-8, 2000 
Saturday Vigil Masses 
Basilica 30 minutes after game 
.. ') 

Stepan Center 45 minutes after game 
Sunday Masses 
Basilica 8:00, 10:00 am & 11:45 am 
Sacred Heart Parish Crypt 6:00, 7:oo, s:oo, 9:30 & 11:00 am 
' 

' 
' 
' 
' 'I 
' 
' 
I 
' 
' ' 
' 
' . 
l 
-.' 
-' 
l 
l 
l 
' 
-

.l 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 

MEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
Ramblers battle Rabid Bats in regular season finale 
-
By JOHNNIE LEITNER, 
KATIE DEMENT and COLIN 
BOYLAN 
Sports Writers 
For the Zahm and Siegfried inlcrball squads. this season has thus far been both the b1ist and worst of times. Both the Habid Bats and the Hamblers opened their years with explo­sive offenses and stifling defen­sive play. 
With the regular s1\ason near­ing a conclusion, though, both teams find thernsPlvcs in a vir­tual must-win situation. 
For Zahm. the year began on a grnat note, as the Bats posted a 45-0 victory. Aflcr a defeat al the hands of Fisher Ila!!, Zahm recorded their s,11.:ond win courtesy of' a f'orl'cit. i\s a result team captain Brian Zant said his unit is still cager to rr.deem itself after watching Fisher conw from behind. 
"We still haven't played to the best of our ability," Zant said. "We want to assert ourselves as a hard-hitting team and show some character." 
For Zahm, its duel with Siegfried will be the last regu­lar season game of the year. With a victory, the Rabid Bats would improve to 3-1, ensuring them a spot in the playoffs. 
"We take it one game at a lime. We don't want to look ahead and falter !against Si'egfriedJ," said Zant. 
From Siegfried's perspective, victory this Sunday is also criti­cal. The Ramblers slipped to 1­1 after losing to Knott last week, and must win to control their own playoff destiny. 
"We were too predictable against Knott." said Travis Smith, running back and cap­tain for Siegfried. "We want to catch Zahm olT guard." 
Smith, who attributed last week's defeat to an early deficit, hopes that his team will return to early-season form, which featured Smith's versa­tile running attack. 
"We'll be a lot better," Smith said. "Not the same team that showed up last Sunday." 
Both Zahm and Siegfried 
view their game as the continu­
ation of a fierce rivalry. 
"Our games are always tight. 
and Zahm plays their best 
against us," said Smith. 
According to Zant, this year's seniors have seen some heated battles between these two teams. Three years ago. Zahm pulled out a win. In the follow­ing season, Siegfried was victo­rious against Zahm in the regu­lar season. only to be eliminat­ed in the playoffs by its north­quad nemesis. 
ln this crucial clash of two interhall he avywc igh ts, Siegfried expects to open strong and play inspired foot­ball. 
"This team has a lot of char­acter," Smith said. "We need to show it against Zahm." 
On the opposing sideline, Zant sees the keys to victory to be maintaining intensity and finishing strong. · 
"We need to get down to business and play like we know we can," he said. 
Sorin vs. Carroll 
After the 0-0 tie between Sorin and Fisher last weekend, the Otters may face some diffi­culty when it comes down to the playo!T standings. 
With one more win, however, Sorin has a chance to make it to the playoffs once again. 
"I can't see why we would not win the rest of our games," said Sorin captain Mike Crowe. 
The beasts of Sorin (1-0-1) and Carroll (0-3) go head to head on Sunday's last regular season game before the play­offs. 
"We are planing to take this game seriously," said Crowe. 
Regardless of the final score Sunday, the Vermin can't make the playoffs because of a forfeit last Sunday against Zahm. The Vermin didn't have enough players after several injuries and scheduling connicts. 
"We are just glad we had a team this year, and I am confi­dent in next year's team," said Carroll captain Gregg Polk. 
In the near future Polk said the offense is getting ready for Sunday. 

-
"We know Sorin likes to pass the ball, we are expecting that.and are prepared," he said. 
The Vermin offense is what 
Polk plans to work 011. 
"This weekend I just hope tho offense will come around and we are working to turn things around this game," hr. said. 
Fisher vs. St. Edwards 
When Fisher Hall takes the field against St. Edward's this Sunday at 1 p.rn .. the Wave will have one thing on their mind: earning a playoff berth. 
"If we win this one, I think we'll definitely make the play­offs," said Wave defensive line­man Dahx Marrs. 
A win against a struggling St. Ed's team would improve Fisher's record to 1-1-1, and place them among the many contenders vying for a top spot in the Gold league standings. 
St. Ed's, on the other hand, is looking to gain their first win of the season and holds onto only slim-at-best playoff hopes. 
"We're trying to improve every week and hopefully get a win this season," said St. Ed's quarterback Tim Greene. 
With an extra bye week to prepare for their upcoming opponent, St. Ed's feels more confident in their defensive prospects. 
"We heard that Fisher likes to run the ball, so we've been working on filling some of the gaps in our defensive line," said defensive back Chris Muhich. 
Running the ball is exactly what Fisher hopes to do. And despite a lack of offensive suc­cess, so far this year. they still pin their hopes on the success of running back Zach Allen. 
"We want to run it down their throats and crush them into the ground," said Marrs. 

LIZ LANG/The Observer 

Following a week off due to a forfeit win against Carroll the Rabid Bats of Zahm take Seigfried's Ramblers on Sunday.' 

'Ht1A ALUt-1M, Q""UD€Nr5, fAt-1tli€5, AfvD ft2I€fvD5 
'{OU'f2£ itvVircD ro rW€ 'HM TATLGArc LOCATED trv rWc ~€MO'2. AA'2. cOU'2.TYA"21J. TW€ FUfv B€Gttv5 Ar 10130 A."'1. rWt5 ~ArU'2.DAV. 
t:;.O lf<.l~Hlll 
_............,_.. 
NBC or ABC? AOL or Yah6b1ssical or Classic Ro&~psons or PJs. Paramount or Warner? WXYZ orWDIV? Reach or Frequency? A&E or Discovery? MTV or VHl? IBlast or GeoCast? GQ or Maxim? Dawson's Creek or Buffy? FOXorMibe or Rolling StOUMrMSNBC? Leno or Letterman? Bulletin or 30 Sheet? Palm or Handspring? 
V 

gue or Bazaarsuperbowl or Worldcup? TLC or Lifetime? 
:15s or :30s? Time Warner or Sony? Univision or Telemundo? Kerbango or NetRadio? Howard Stern or Rush Limbaugh? HyperTV or The Box? CPM or CPP? TIME or Newsweek? PlayNow or MediaStatlilit'.ect Mall or Ema 
west Wing or who wants to Be a Millionaire? Nickelodeon or Disney? 
ha Stewart or Julia Cbikl& Order or The Practice? Bulletin Board or Train Wrap? Paramount or Warner? Big Brother or Real World? FOX Sports or ESPN? lography or Intimate Portraltl?loorminders or Aislevision? Oscars or Emmys? ink or Respond 1V1>smopolitan or Glamour? Gourmet or Bon Appetit? Essence or Ebony? SmartPhones or Telemarketing? ETV or ITV? eople or Entertainment weslt'Company or Industry Sta nda 
New York Times or Wall StreetJo~eil-Leher or HardbaU1'.Pt.,.? ER or Chicago Hope? Banner or lnterstitial?Network TV or Syndication? Barnes&nobl.e. com or Borders. com? Postcards or Postering? 
I? 
d 

I careerIIStarcam or 111111111n1 Borl¦ail 
we are in the business of making choices. II vou find these tv11es 01 choices inu1uu1nu, Starcom mav be the place for vou. come llnd out more at our presentation on Mondav, 8ctober 9th. alThe Morris Inn s1ar11nu a17PM. 
t· 

Or go to www.starcomworldwlde.com. l'svour choice. Starcom 

Friday, October 6, 2000 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 
Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown identifies the US investment banking and brokerage activities of DB Alex. Brown LLC and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., which are indirect subsidiaries of Deutsche Bank AG. "Trademark application pending 
Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown 

Turning change into opportunity 
Juniors and seniors welcome. 
Please join us to learn about career opportunities in investment banking, sales, trading and research. 
Analyst Panel Discussion 
Tuesday, October 10, 2000 
6:30 p.m. Center for Continuing ~ducation Room 210 
Casual attire. 

Students interested in U.S. opportunities 
t·· should fax resume and cover letter with area of interest to (212) 469-3872 or (212) 469-3660. 
To learn more about Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown, visit our website at www.db.com/careers 
Global reach is 
-
-


Deutsche Bank 
IZI 
J -I I ' ' .. 

Friday, October 6, 2000

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE DIVISONAL SERIES 
Franco's save leads Mets past Giants, 5-4 
Associated Press 
SAN FHANCISCO 

John Franco knew there was a reason he came back to the New York Mets' bullpen fur another season, a mason he kept playing the game after turning 40 last month. 
This was why. 
Franco, the last hero in a game l'ull of them, got the first playoff save of his 16­ycar career by striking out Barry Bonds to end the 10th inning nf New York's 5-4 vic­tory over the San Francisco Giants on Thursday night. 
Arter .Jay Payton's go-ahead single in the top half, Franco did what Armando Benitez couldn't: Franco closed it out as the Mets survived J .T. Snow's game-tying, three-run homer in th11 ninth and cvPncd their best-of-five NL playoff series at 1-1. 
Franco has 420 earner reg­ula r-se ason saves but not much common ground with his teammates any more. Ile has a rnc!iner in front of his locker instead of a stool, and he's quick to change the club­house st<'reo when the youngsters put rap on the system. 
But his experience gives him a late-season poise on the mound that Benitez ­already scarred by numerous 
postseason mistakes 
doesn't have. 
Moments al'ter striking out Bonds looking with a delicate curveball and pumpii1g his fist in joy, Franco said his only concern was for his shaken teammate. 
"lle's our closer. The guy's a human being," Franco said. "He's going to make mistakes like we all do .... 11 was a team effort. that's all. Jay got the big hit, I got the big out. Saturday, it could be some­body else. 
"One of the reasons I came back was because I felt this team could win." 
Edgardo Alfonzo's two-run homC'f in the ninth off Felix Rodriguez had created a 4-1 lead. 
Al Leiter. who held the Giants to four in the first eight innings, gave up a lead­off dou!Jlc to Bonds in the bottom half. and Mets man­ager Bobby Valentine went to the bullpen for 13enitez. Jeff Kent reached on an infield single and, one out later, Snow launched the first pinch-hit homer of his career. The ball hit the facing of the walkway over right lield al Pacific Bell Park and landed mavbc two feet to the lel't of the.foul pole. 
"When I hit it. l just hoped it stayed fair.' Snow said. "Of course. none of that matters right now." 

WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Guy, Cunha travel to Palo Alto 
By STEVE KEPPEL 
Sports Writer 

After two weeks of' tough play and competition most of the Irish women's tennis team will have the weekend off to watch and enjoy the home football game on Saturday. 
The exceptions to the rule will be Kim Guy and Katie Cunha who will be traveling out to sunny Palo Alto, Calif., to compete in the ITA/World Team Tennis Intercollegiate Championships. The women's doubles team will be paired with the Notre Dame men's doubles team as they com­pete against tho likes of Stanford, Tulsa and Texas A&M in straight and mixed doubles matches. 
Coach Jay Louderback joins them on the West Coast to lend his guidance and sup­port as both the men and women take on some of the top teams in the country. 
After the weekend of rest the women's team will head off' to Colorado next week as they compete in the Colorado Invitational. 
Friday, October 6 

-
-
I 
::i 
C. 
ct) 
Q. C 


I 
-
C/lC 
er 






i ~,,11 1111 ~: 
I l : \ ) . .: . · f1 
~ 

OR an entire Month of bed tanning for only $40. I AND when you bring in this coupon get 25% off our wide selection of tanning lotions! 
I 

272-7653 NEW University Location State Road 23 & Ironwood 
I 

256-9656 Corner of Grape and McKinley 291-2000 Southland Plaza Ireland & Ironwood
~-----------------------J 
Ple.. .ase. . . rec. .. ... •.·.e¼@. . . f:!lifhe O·bserver
..· 

. • ..........•.i-y;•········ . ... .
· . ... . ' 

THE BEST OF 
ACOUSTIC CAFE 
Luke Mueller Vince o•conner 
Dave Hunt \ Nick Faleris Justin Dunn 

Friday, October 6, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
WOMEN'S GOLF 
Belles play in Adrian College Tournament 

By KATIE MILLER 
Spnrr• Writer 
Saint Mary's golf team will play at a tournament hosted by Adrian College Saturday. 
The Relics are currently third in the MIAA conference. AfLer finishing third overall last sea­son. the Belles hope to take sec­ond place in their conference at their upcoming tournament. 
"We are only live shots out of second place, just behind Hope," said golf coach Theresa Pekarek. 
Pekarek was pleased with the team's score last Saturday at the tournament hosted by Hope. 
"\Ve finished third with an overall low score of 350, our lowest ever," she said. 
The Belles are confident that their performance on Saturday will reflect their strengths. 
"We are a consistent team," said senior Natalie Cook. "Last week, a lot of the teams played really well because of the good weather. This Saturday, the weather is supposed to be terri­ble, but we are steady no matter what the weather." 
"We have a deep team. Kyle Veltri and Natalie Cook will lead the team, but we will rely on everyone," said Pekarek. "We've established a good team. We can rise to the occasion and get ahead of Hope in the conference standing." 
Players hope to play well despite the poor weather. 
'TU start the course with a play safo philosophy," said Cook. "I plan on playing smart golf despite the weather conditions." 
"Despite the bad weather pre­dictions, we have good team momentum going," said Pekarek. 
In the MIAA conference, Albion currently has first place. 
· Sho,vcase Your Talents!! 

Come try-out for BCAC's Cultural Talent Showl 
OCT 8th Montgomery Theater 
8-10 p.m. 

OCT 9th Center for Social Concerns 7-9 p.m. 
8/akimages 

Saturday, Oct. 28th 7:30 p.m. sponsored by BCAC 
ALLISON DOHERTY/The Observer The Belles golf team will compete at Adrian College on Saturday. Saint Mary's is currently third in the MIAA. 

oodnight 
2000-2001 Season Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 
(j)~ 

(Good Morning 
;µdid) 
by Anne-Marie MacDonald 
A comedy of alchemic proportions 

Directed by Wendy Arons 
Wedne5day, Oct. 4 ...... 7:30 pm Thursday, Oct. 5 .......... 7:30 pm Friday, Oct. 6 .............. 7:30 pm Saturday, Oct. 7 .......... 7:30 pm Sunday, October 8 ...... 2:30 pm 
Playing at Washington Hall Reserved Seats $9 • Seniors $8 • Students $6 cketsareavailableatlaFortuneStudentCenterTicketOffice. For MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631-8128 
______________________, 
-ClevelandandIron'l;VoodRoads/18011 Cleveland Road/South Bend, Indiana 46637/ {219)272-8110 
-Castle Point 
Select Units 
Available for 
~~1 "\},. :. · -.•..• • *:.::!!::7c~~:s• 
.• Reno~~ted; spacious ·on~ ap.~ two .bedroom apartments~ some with lofts·. 
• fucludes_ ;mell?:hership. -i~ :fue new Castle i>oi~t Racquet Club and Fitness·center · 
NL DIVISION SERIES 
Cards go up 2-1 on Braves 
Associated Press  
ST. LOUIS  
Another of the Atlanta  
Braves' golden arms left  
Busch Stadium badly tar­ 
nished, putting the St. Louis  
Cardinals within one win of  
the NL championship  
series.  
Tom Glavine was pound­ 
ed for seven runs and six  
hits in 2 1/3 innings -his  
shortest outing in seven  
years -and the Cardinals  
beat the Braves 10-4  
Thursday to take a 2-0 lead  
in their best-of-five NL  
playoff series.  
"It came at a bad time,"  
Glavine said. "I needed to  
go out there and give us an  
opportunity to win. and I  
didn't do that."  
Will Clark overcame a 2­ 
0, first-inning deficit with a  
three-run homer, and Mark  
McGwire. limited to one at­ 
bat per game because of  
knee pain, limped out of the  
Cardinals dugout in the  
eighth to hit a pinch homer  
off Mike Remlinger.  
"What we were trying to  
do was go out there and get  
a good pitch to hit, basically  
the same thing that we did  
with Maddux," Clark said.  
"These guys are awesome  
pitchers. They're 20-game  
winners for a reason."  
Darryl Kile limited  
Atlanta to two runs and  
four hits in seven innings,  
striking out six and walking  
two.  
The reeling Braves are in  
danger of failing to make  
the NL championship series  
for the first time since  
1990. They head home hop­ 
ing either Maddux on three  
days' rest or Kevin  
Millwood (10-13) can win  
Game 3 on Saturday at  
Turner Field. Garrett Stephenson (16-9) is likely  - 
to start for the Cardinals.  
St. Louis essentially is in  
the same position it was in  
1996, when it took a 3-1  
lead over. Atlanta in the  
best-of-seven NLCS, then  
lost three straight.  
"It's exactly the same  
thing," Braves manager  
Bobby Cox said. "We could  
very well pull that off.  
Heck, we won 15 in a row  
this year."  
Cardinals manager Tony  
La Russa remains wary of  
the Braves, who find them­ 
selves struggling in the '00s  
after calling themselves the  -· 
team of the '90s.  
"We recognize this is a  
three-win series, not a two•  
win series," La Russa said.  
"So nobody's celebrating."  
After Clark's three-run  
horner started the come­ 
back, Carlos Hernandez  
had a solo shot in the sec­ 
ond and St. Louis made it 7­ 
2 in the third on Ray  
Lankford 's two-run double  
and Eric Davis' sacrifice fly.  
Atlanta's top two pitch­ 
ers. Greg Maddux and  
Glavine, who have com­ 
bined for six NL Cy Young  
Awards, have given up 12  
earned runs in 6 1/3  
innings, a 17.05 ERA.  

Friday, October 6, 2000

page 28 The Observer . SPORTS 

Runners 
continued from page 36 
· Stanford, No. 8 North Carolina State, No. 10 Arizona. No. 23 Duke and No. 24 Eastern Michigan join No. 22 Notre Dame in the race. "On the men's side, we would like to -if we can ­run with Duke and Eastern Michigan." Notre Dame men's cross country coach Joe Piane said." They're around us in the rankings. and it would help us to qualify for the NCMs to run with them." Staying ahead of Duke and Eastern Michigan would likely allow Notre Dame to take home a top-four finish. "Basically, our goals are just to bnat a couple of teams there 
that have a good chance of making the NCMs," freshman David Alber said. " We've got a long way to go, but I think we're showing that we could be good." 
The Irish need strong perfor­mances out of the entire squad to finish as hoped. 
"We've got to get a couple of low sticks, one in Luke Watson and Marc Striowski," Piane said. " We also need another good performance from Pat Conway and a host of fresh­men. We need a good perfor­mance out of Sean Zanderson, too." 
The women's varsity race will be run at 4:15 p.m., fol­lowed by the men's varsity race at 5 p.m. The open junior varsity race is at 3:30 p.m., precoded by a men's gold divi­sion race at 2:45 p.m. 
HOCKEY 

Poulin's team reaches goals 
By MATT ORENCHUK 
Sports Writer 

When Dave Poulin became head coach of the Notre Dame hockey team five years ago, he set goals for the team. One by one. season by season, those goals have been ticked ofT. The Irish have made it to the CCHA tournament and they have played in Joe Louis Arena in the CCHJ\ semifinals. 
The biggest goal, however. is to win a national championship. To do that, Notre Dame will have to make the NCAA hockey tournament next April -some­thing the Irish have never done. The focus of the 20th-ranked Irish hockey team will be to build on the momentum of last season's trip to Joe Louis Arena in Detroit for the CCHA semifi­
naLi,. 

"We have been to the Joe [Joe Louis Arena!, we have had home ice [in the CCHA tournament). but bar none the NCAA's is where we want to go this year." said senior left wing Chad Chipchase. 
Standing in the way of the lrish's NCAA bid is a tough slate of early season opponents. Notre Dame begins its season this Saturday when they take on the 11th-ranked Minnesota Golden Gophers at the Xcel Energy Center in St. Paul, Minn. 
"It's a big thing to be able to go up there and show [Minnesota] what Irish hockev is all about. We have put in the work over the last three weeks and we are going to be ready to play this weekend," junior center David Inman said. 
On October 13 and 14. the Irish will participate in the Nebraska Omaha Shootout, where they play fourth-ranked Boston College, and could possi­
blv meet 13th-ranked Nebra.'ika­
Omaha. And if that wasn't 
enough, Notre Dame has a home 
series . with fifth-ranked 
Michigan State and away series 
with 14th-ranked Lake Superior 
State and Nebraska-Omaha all 
before Christmas. 

With only one automatic bid from each conference, the rest of the teams make it as at-large bids determined by a selection committee. Notre Dame must make themselves look as good as possible. Poulin likes the chal­lenge of the early schedule. 
"With only one automatic bid to the NCAA tournament, we have the schedule which will enable us to do it (make the NCAA's]." Poulin said. 
In order to win, there will be several key questions that the Irish have to answer. Offensively they need to become more con­sistfmt. Poulin ls looking for that consistency to come from Dan Carlson. 
The senior left wing led the Irish last season with 35 points. Carlson is quietly making an impact in the CCI-IA, where he is ranked sixth in goals among active players. 
"Talk about someone who stepped it up, and took it to the next level, Dan Carlson did that last year. " Poulin said. Also important to the Irish offense will be captain Ryan Dolder. sophomore Connor Dunlop and Inman. Inman showed some flashes of talent last year and could impress some people, according to Poulin. 
"[Inman! could take it to a level that would make this team a very different hockey team," Poulin said. 
Defensively, the Irish will look to continue their tough defense of the past few seasons. To do that Notre Dame will have to rely on some talented but inex­perienccd players. as the top three defcnsemen from last year's team have graduated. 
Looking to Iii! those shoes will be senior Ryan Clark. junior Sam Cornelius and sophomore Evan Nielsen. The Irish will also look to some freshmen to step up and play major rolls, accord­ing to Poulin. 
"Even Nielsen and Hyan Clark have to be real good for us defensively. Sam Cornelius did not play a lot last year after play­ing a lot his freshmen year. And then we have the three kids. Komadoski. Lcbda and Galvin. and they arc going to get major rolls right out of the gate.'' said Poulin about his defense. 
The defcnsemen won't have to do it alone, as they will have sophomore goalie Tony Zasowski between the pipes. 
Zasowski played in 31 games last y{1ar, posting a 13-9-6 record. When asked how Zasowski would play this year without the benefit of veteran defenscmen, Poulin responded "Tony is a control guy. Last year was a nice transition for him having (four senior defenscmenl in front of him. but he is certain­ly ready to play." 
With the experience that Zasowski gained playing much of last season, he will provide a calm presence which should allow some of the freshmen to mature into solid defenders. 
At the start of this hockey sea­son all the cards are on the table. The Notre Dame hockey team knows exactly what it needs to do to reach their goal. With the depth of Irish, com­bined with the tough early sea­son schedule, it won't take long to ligure out if Notre Dame will be able to cross off another goal this April or if they will be sitting at home, wondering what might have been. 

-
-
-

Friday, October 6, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 29 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish travel to take on Hoyas,Wildcats this weekend 
By KEVIN BERCHOU 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team will be without one of its brightest stars this weekend when it travels to Georgetown and Villanova for successive Big East Conference battles. 
Freshman scoring-sensation Amy Warner. still recovering from a knee injury last week­end. will not make the trip east. ll looks as though Warner will miss the next several weeks with the injury. but Irish head coach Randy Waldrum is hopeful she'll return for the playoffs. 
"At this point, WC think she'11 be back for the postsea­son," Waldrum said. "We'll know more when the doctor looks at her again." 
Despite the mediocre records of both the Hoyas and the Wildcats, Waldrum is leery of' an upset.. 
"We try to prepare the girls for that possibility every game, every time we step on to the field," Waldrum said. "The way the soccer has been going this year, there have been a ton of upsets. It's something we have to be leery of." 
· With such a disparity in the 
talent level between the Irish 
and their weekend opponents, 
Waldrum is well aware of the 
style Georgetown and 
Villanova will play. 
"They're going to lay back," Waldrum said. "I think both teams are much improved from last vear. but I still don't think they'll take any chances. We just have to do a better job getting behind the defense." 
If Georgetown is able to penetrate ihe strong Notre Dame back line, they have scorers with the capability of convening. Senior midfielder Liz Delgado is one of the con­ference's top scorers, notch­ing seven goals th is season. 
Last year the Irish embar­rassed the Hoyas at Alumni FiCld, whipping them 10-0. Waldrum expects a tougher test this time around. 
"I think they're much improved, they're competing much better,'' he said. "Last year they really didn't have the talent to compete." 
The Hoyas do enter the game playing their best soc­cer of the season. Georgetown improved to 6-4-2 on the cur­rent season with an impres­sive 2-0 victory over Seton Hall, running their Big East record to 1-0-1. 
In a game that showcased their defensive strengths, the Hovas limited the Pirates to a single shot on goal in the game's first half. 
After tonight's game in Washington. the lrish will head to the City of Brotherly Love with high hopes of tam­ing the Wildcats Sunday. 
Villanova has struggled all season, but is coming off a 4­0 shutout victory against Rutgers, which improved its overall mark to 7-6-0. The Wildcats are, however, just 1­3 in Big East play. 

Kristin Dunst will lead a Jess than potent Wildcat attack. which has had diffi­culties finding the net all year. Dunst. the lone bright spot. has but four goals. 
After what Waldrum called a good week of training, and a productive team meeting, the Irish coach feels his team will enter the weekend refreshed and with renewed focus. 
"We're going to try to get back to some of the things we did well at the beginning of the season in big games," he said. "We want to play every game like it's our biggest one. I think now we're all on the same page." 
In order to compensate for the loss of Warner, Waldrum will play a frontline of Ali Lovelace, Amanda Guertin and Meotis Erikson all of whom have the ability to score. Waldrum anticip.ates no real drop off. 
"I think if Amy were healthy, we could start any three of those four and keep up the same pace," Waldrum said. "Without Amy, we do lose speed though." 
Waldrum is hopeful that in playing opponents of lesser caliber he will be able to work in some of his reserves. 

Enjoy dining out in a 
""'100~,. .. 

"'l:SffCPR. DDORs flPi 'll8t.[1,fs
big way with juicy 
'ENATBPl,f_ 

Chicago style steaks in hassle-free down­town South Bend. Pull up a chair to a tender filer, 


Senior Meotis Erikson moves the ball past a Seton Hall defend­er during Notre Dame's 6-0 victory Sept. 29. 
DDlfTfo. 
'llC[T FRIDA y H[LL00.4v£~11.. ATHMHrtANo,, 
an extra thick t-bone, or our specialty, 12 oz. of USDA prime New York strip steak. Lighter opt10ns, too. 
222 S Michigan, South Bend 

. 
1 
I j 
l• 1 
-
J 
l 1 
j 
219-234-5200 

page 30 The Observer . ~PORTS Friday, October 6, 2000 
VOLLEYBALL 
No. 20 Irish head east to take on Panthers, Mountaineers 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team will travel to Pittsburgh and West Virginia this weekend in its first conference games on the road. 
"I think this weekend is a chance for us to prove our domi­nance in the Big East," said sophomore Kearn Coughlin. "It's an opportunity for the team to show its character and our abili­ty to control the level of play on our side of the net." 
The No. 20 Irish, 11-4 and 2-0 in the conference, are coming off wins against Big East opponents Villanova and Georgetown. 
Notre Dame will face West Virginia for the eighth time. with the Irish leading the series at 5­
2. Nikki Hardy, who leads West Virginia this year with 185 kills, will pose a threat to the Irish. 
The Irish are looking for revenge following the 1998 loss in West Virginia, one of just two of Notre Dame's conference loss­es on the road since 1995. 

"We're going into West Virginia match remembering what happened two years ago and with the goal of silencing the Mountaineer crowd on their own court," said Coughlin. 
The Irish will look for their 14th win against Pittsburgh in the 17th time the teams will face each other. The Panthers are now 15-5 overall and 1-1 in the Big East. 
In its Big East season opener, Notre Dame defeated Villanova 15-5, 15-2, 15-9. Christi Girton led the Irish with eight kills while freshman Kristen Kinder added 16 assisl'> and five digs. 
Notre Dame finished off the weekend with a sweep of Georgetown (15-8, 15-6, 15-8). Girton led the Irish again with 16 kills, nine digs and four blocks. 
Girton was named Co-Big East player of the week for the sec­ond week in a row following the wins. 
.Junior Kristy Kreher leads Notre Dame on the season with 190 kills while classmate Malinda Goralski will provide a defensive threat with 56 blocks in 2000. 
"I think we'll be able to run a very quh.:k olTense. We'll be able to concentrate on the execution 
of  our  blocking  schemes,"  
Coughlin said.  
Notre  Dame  will  face  

Pittsburgh on Saturday before traveling to West Virginia on Sunday. 

LIFE IS SHORT. 
START OUT 
WORKING FOR THE BEST. 
. f 
: 
' 
I • 

FINANCIAL ADVISORY SERVICES 
NOTRE DAME VS. STANFORD TAILGATER 
-
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7, 9:30AM-12:30PM IN THE PARKING I.OT ACROSS FROM THE LIBRARY LOOK FOR THE BLUE/WHITE BALLOONS 
Al PricewalerhouseCoopers,_ we offer you the opportunity to grow personally as well as µrofessionally. After all, the more we grow together, the more everyone profits together. Now lh.Jt you know something about us, why not tell us ~omething about you -make tracks to our Online Career Profile. www.pwcglobal.com/ocp 

Join us. Together we can change the world.™ 
02000 Pr1cewalerhouseCoopers llP Pr1rnw,1IPrhouseCoopers ricfen 10 1hc U.S. f1rn1 of Pricew.aterhou.seCoupen LLP ,ulfl orher 11len1ben ol !he worldwrde Pr1cewaterhouseC'OQpers or&a111.i:a11011 P,1cewa1crhoUSCCoopers l!i 1,mud lo be an A1f1rmafr11,e Acl1un ,1nd Equal Opportumfy trnploy,er 
--__j 
friday, October 6, 2000 The Ob.server . SPORTS page 31 
increase ·recognition of Notre finally won their first match in softball teams was also verv who wanted to compete at a Dame athletics beyond football, 1982. intense. Before the Irish softball high level would play for Notre
Rivalry 
women's teams began to devel­The Irish won the next two program reached varsity stalus . Dame. The competitions would 
continued from page 36 
61 in a meet that saw seven pool records fall, but in 1986, Notre Dame beat the Belles 84­
38. Like the score, the attitude of the competition changed, too. 
"The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's meet is basically a fun meet for us," said Tim Welsh, the 1986 Notre Dame swim coach, and current men's coach. 
Both schools used the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's dual meet to rotate swimmers into different events or concentrate OB quali­fying a few swimmers for the national competition. 
This trend was evident in other sports, as well. Although Saint Mary's usually won the early meetings between the two teams, as the Notre Dame women's programs developed, the Irish turned these once­close games into blowouts. 
Sport by sport. the Irish dropped the Belles from their schedules in favor of teams of Division I caliber. 
"We've put a whole lot or our resources into women's sports," said John Heisler, tht\ Notre Dame Director of Sports Information. "As long as we're going to compete in them, we might as well be good in them." 
Widening the gap 
The era of competition between the Irish and the Belles began when Notre Dame first admitted women in 1972. Because of Title IX and gender equity issues, coupled with the athletic department's desire to op al Notre Dame. While they were officially recognized as clubs, they still played other collegiate teams. 
The first time varsity pro­grams from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's competed against each other occurred in 1 Y76, when the Belles defeated the Irish 6-3 in the final tennis meet of the season for both teams. Saint Mary's won the first three meetings between the two schools, but the Irish earned their first victory in 1979. Notre Dame never lost to Saint Mary's after that date, winning 13 straight meets and. from 1981 to 1986, the last time the tennis programs competed, the Irish won every meet 9-0. 
l:lasketball saw much of the same domination bv the Irish. In four years of competition, the Irish held a 10-0 record against the Belles. However. in 1979, the Irish and the Belles faced each other in the semi-finals of the Northern Indiana District Tournament in what may have been the most significant meet· ing between the two schools. Notre Dame won 61-49 and eliminated Saint Mary's from postseason play. the first and onlv time the two schools have pla.yed P-ach other in a game with postseason implications in any sport. 
Volleyball remains the only sport in which Saint Mary's leads the all-time series. The two teams met for the first time in 1980, when the Belles won in straight sets. Saint Mary's won the first four meetings between the two teams. Notre Dame 

matches before competition between the two schools ended in 1983. 
Battles for excellence 
The closest games of the Irish-Belles rivalry occurred in soccer. In 1985, Saint Mary's soccer team became the first college program in Indiana to rise to varsity status. 
In their first game as a varsity squad, the Belles losL to the Irish 3-1. 
"I think we were too fired up for the game," said Katy Boldt, who scored the first goal for Saint Mary's varsity team. "There's always a lot of rivalry when we play Notre Dame, and we were too psyched up for lhe match." 
Saint Mary's got its revenge 22 days later when they beat Notre Dame 2-0 to record their first win as a varsity team. 
Considerable hype surround­ed the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community when the Irish soc­cer program reached varsity status in 1988. The area was captivated by the possibilities the rivalry could hold. The Observer reported in 1988 that the soccer games between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's "would determine Michiana supremacy in soccer." The first game lived up to the tremen­dous buildup as Notre Dame rallied from a 2-0 halftime deficit to win 4-2. Over the next three years, the Irish clawed their way to a 3-0-1 record over the Belles. 
The competition between the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame in 1989, Saint Mary's dominat­ed most games between the two schools. 
The highlight for the Belles came in 1985 when they defeat­ed the Irish 10-3 on their way to the championship at the Notre Dame Invitational. At first it was typical to see the Belles win by scores of 11-1. But when Notre Dame's program reached varsity status in 1989, the situa­tion reversed. The Irish won all four games played that year by an average of nine runs, In 1990, in one of the most memo­rable games or the Notre Dame­Saint Mary's rivalry, Irish pitch­er Missy Linn pitched a perfect game as Notre Dame won 1-0 in the final head-to-head meeting between any Saint Mary's and Notre Dame athletic program. 
Unbalanced rivals 

So why don't the two teams play each other any more? Several factors have con­tributed to the virtual disap­pearance of the rivalry. 
Scholarships have created an imbalance in the talent pool in both schools. As Notre Dame athletic programs grew in stature and national promi­nence, they could use athletic scholarships to lure lop high school athletes to Notre Dame. Saint Mary's, on the other hand, is a Division III school and therefore does not have any athletic scholarships available. 
Thus, as the Irish athletic pro­grams developed, Notre Dame would usually have more talent than their Saint Mary's counter­parts simply because athletes turn into lopsided affairs that the lrish would win time after time, as they did in 1981 when Notre Dame's basketball beat Saint Mary's 92-29 in what became the final basketball game played between the two schools. 
Another issue involves com­peting for national recognition. Heisler said the coaches arc responsible for scheduling deci­sions, and they usually schedule tough teams to impress high­profile high school athletes. 
"Recruiting is like an arms race," Heisler said. "Your sup­port systems are being mea­sured against other schools. If you want to show how good you are. you have to play high-cal­iber Division I teams." 
As the Irish women's sports programs continue to grow in athletic prominence, the chances of seeing a revitaliza­tion of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's rivalry arc shrinking. 
"There's a big commitment you have to make if you want to stay at the top of the pack," Heisler said "And if that means abandoning rivalries, that's what has to be done." 
So, when the 17th Notre Dame Relays kicks off this weekend, pay special attention the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's swimming teams. The two teams might de-emphasize the annual meeting, but both will secretly acknowledge that the rivalry still exists. As the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's rival­ry enters the new millennium, one thing is clear -the rivalry, though diminished, will not die. 
? IMAGINE an investment banking position at Wall Street's #1 firm for municipal finance! 
? IMAGINE working directly with top professionals in the field from day one! 
? IMAGINE the opportunity to help build America's infrastructure while developing sophisticated financial skillsl 
? IMAGINE... 

SALOMONSMITHBARNEY 
Public Finance Department A memberof c1t1groupJ 
Please join us for an open information session about opportunities in Public Finance Sunday, October 8th , 2000 at 6:00 p.m. CCE Room 200 For more information, please email: Vinod.j.Kurian@ssmb.com (Notre Dame 2000) 
-

page 32 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 6, 2000 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish head to Rhode Island for key Big East match-up 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Ass1stan1 Sports Editor 
Carrying the burden of a 1-4 Big East record that currently has the team ranked 11th out of the 12 teams in the conference, the Irish mm1's soccer team faces a must-win game on Sunday when it travels to Rhode Island to take on Providence. 
The ganrn has important implica­tions for Big East tournament play. Only the top eight of the 12 teams in the Big East compete in the tourna­rrwnt, while the others am forced to sit at home. An Irish win would move them into competition for the final spot and give the team momen­tum heading into a stretch where each of the squad's next five games is against a Big hast opponent. 
"For us to get back on track. back into the swing of things with the Big East we rPally need to go to Providence and buve u big win," said senior captain Dustin Pridmore. "We need to keep momentum going so we can carry it through the rest of the season." 
The Friars will be looking to avenge a crushing loss to the Irish last year. In the game, Pridmore and then-freshman Erich Braun each scored two goals to lead Notre Dame to a 4-0 victory. 
At season's end, the Friars and Irish were tied for eighth in the con­ference standings with 10 points apiece. The Irish. however. made the Big East tourney because of their head-to-head win against the Friars. Pridmore feels that this will give Providence an added incentive on Sunday. 
"For us to get back on track, back into the swing or things with the Big East we really need to go to Providence and have a big win." said Pridmore. "We need to keep momentum going so we can carry it through the rest of the season." 
Providence is coming off of 4-1 loss Wednesday to second-ranked Connecticut. 
Junior forward Tom Blesso scored the lone goal for the Friars. Hlesso leads the team with six points this season, already matching his total from 1999. The Irish come in confi­dent following a 2-1 win over Northwestern on Tuesday. During the game -which was marked by a 40-minute delav in the second half when the power went out in Alumni Field -the Irish took 25 shots, including two goals by freshman Justin Detter. 
In addition to Dcttrr's strong play, Braun has been able to overcome a nagging hamstring injury to create quality shots in recent games. Junior Matt Rosso was ini;erted into the starting lineup for the Sept. 29 contest against Pittsburgh and has responded with strong play from the flanker position in the last two games. 
In addition. senior Griffin Howard has exhibited strong offensive skills as a starter. giving Irish head coach Chris Apple a multitude of scoring weapons heading into Sunday's important game. 
"I feel great, conlidcnt, the guys are playing well," said Irish head coach Chris Apple. "We have to get a win on the road. We're a better team, we have to prove it on the field." 



Dain Rauscher Wessels 
An information session will be given in 201 Debartolo Hall fro1n 6:30 -8:30 PM oh Thursday October 5th 
Meet Investment Bankers from Dain Rauscher Wessels and learn about full-time Associate and Analyst roles 
-

IIQ.OITY CAPITAL MARlt.BTS 

ATLANTA• AUSTIN •BOSTON• DALLAS• DENVER• HOUSTON • MENLO PARK• MINNEAPOLIS• NEW YORK• PARIS• SAN FRANCISCO• SEATTLE• TEL AVIV* 
• Strategic alliance with Tam1r Fishman & Co 

Soccer 
continued from page 36 
record and stand at 2-7-1 overall. Kalamazoo, the defending conference cham­pions. are 5-1 in the I\HAA in third place. and have a 7-4-1 record overall. This doesn't phase the Belles, however. 
"They won the game [last time] in the first five minutes and we gave up," Kapphahn said. "When we go out Saturday we will go out 
Friday, October 6, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 33 
shooting drills and game­Because both Brasseur and and well." pressure simulations. Klink play defense, the Belles Metzger is fully prepared to 
"We did a lot of prep. have shaken up that part of do her job in the net, and has today," Kapphahn said. "We the field to worked just as had a lot of shot opportuni­com pen­hard as the ties and touches on the ball. s a t e "Everyone on the team is rest of the We worked on possession against team to learn
doing what they can to
and moving. We hit commu­Kalamazoo. her position nication really hard, because "We .have make up for the loss. " since the when we get tired we stop a good beginning of talking. and our game level defense, the year.
Adrian Kirby
drops. Communication is the but their "My goal is to
junior midfielder 
ready with our heads up and fin­ish our opportuni­ties." 
The Belles have been plagued all season by a scoring drought. They domi­nate teams 
"When we go out Saturday we will go out ready with our heads up andfinish our opportunities. ,. 
Tia Kapphahn Belles' tri-captain 
back in the lineup, sophomore sweeper Alissa Brasseur is out for the season with a 
foot  injury,  
and  tri-cap­ 
tain  Jessica  

Klink will not play for at 

but fail to score and thus carry the win. This problem has not gone unnoticed or untreated Soon after the first Kalamazoo game, the Belles began heavy-duty. 
improve," 
Metzger said. 
''I've been 
working hard all season but I have a long way to go. 1 am wiling to put in the time and the effort because I love this team and I love soccer." 
Metzger is also confident in her team's defensive skills to support her in the goal. 
"We're trying something new with our defense, forc­ing them offsides," Metzger said. "Who knows? I might not even see the ball." 
Whatever happens, Metzger and the Belles con­sider themselves prepared for Saturday's match, whichever goalie wins. 
'Tm extremely excited," Metzger said. "I have a good feeling about this game." 
CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles to 
ring in 
Goshen 
By KATIE McVOY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
This weekend's meet at Goshen College may turn out to be a battle of the freshmen. 
The young Saint Mary's cross-country team will face off against a very young Goshen team when they compete at the Goshen College Invitational. 
But head coach Dave Barstis expects some great things from his women this weekend. 
"I think [the womenl are feeling great," he said. "Practices have been strong and we are injury free. l expect some personal records at this meet." 
The young Saint Mary's team. that opened this sea­son with four sophomores and four freshmen, has had a difficult start. 
They finished s'eventh out of seven teams at their only home meet of the season two weeks ago. However, this week's flat course may prove to be a chance to start again. 
"This is a flat, fast course so I'd like everyone to have their best time of the sea­son," Barstis said. 
Goshen is also fielding a young team. With only two upper classmen running for Goshen, the Belles may have a chance to finish the race in a good place. 
"Last year we didn't have anyone in the top ten but . our pack running enabled us to get a 4th place finish," Barstis said. "We surprised a lot of teams." 
Although it's uncertain what teams will be compet­ing besides Goshen and Saint Mary's, it is probable that the same teams will return from last year. 
Bethel College, Adrian 
College. Hillsdale College, 
Grace College, Manchester 
College. Tri-State 
University, and Concordia 
College all took part in the 
race last year. 
The other teams compet­
ing may present a challenge 
in that they all have very 
strong number one runners. 
But the Belles are hoping 
pack running will overcome 
that. 
"The other teams seem to 
have that one runner that 
finishes in the top ten which 
gives their team a big ­
bonus," Barstis said. "We 
have to compensate by hav• 
ing 7 finish as close togeth­
er as possible." 
FREE 
classifieds 
Observer on the Web. 
number one problem." 
The Belles have struggled all season with injuries, los­ing Kirby and freshman Wendy Irvin early to injuries. Although Kirby and Irvin are 
-2 Bdrm Apts,Available -Student Leases Available : -Under $500per.lY(onth .. 4 Blocks Fro, .. 2nd Sem ·gaH.abilit' 

"The Best Value In QJt0ampus L...i 
ProfessionallvManaged by Rea! Estate Management Corp. 
234-9923 
forwards are faster than our 

defense," Kapphahn said. "We have to 
space ourselves out accord­
ingly to beat them." 

According to Kapphahn, the Relles are also working on challenging for the ball and being more aggressive, bu_t also on their patience. 
"We worked on making moves when they do have the ball. not just stopping but jockeying and waiting for them to make a mistake so we can take the ball," Kapphahn said. "Letting 
least another week. them make a mistake and 
"They will definitely be give you the ball rather than missed," Kirby said. trying to take it is a lot easi­"Everyone on the team is er. They don't have a very doing what they can to make strong defense, so we just up for the loss." have to hit our shots early 
• ••Notre Dame Center ••¦•for Ethics andReligious •¦¦ Values in Business 
Proudly Presents 
Thomas Golden Partner-in Charge, Midwest Fraud 
Investigation Service, PricewaterhouseCoopers. 
Sometimes Good People Do Bad Things 
Tuesday, October 10, 2000 Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business 7:00 p.m. 
Made possible by CARGILL 

....,,,.,,,,,.,,.,,,.,,~Ji____ 
'Wle orris <flnn 
•"'•-•~,Y.•-'/V.•,•,\•. 'I'-•,• .•.•,• ,•,•, .• ,\'.'.'ll...•H,A•...y.~~~._,,,,w,.,..y.-.•.•u 
631-2000 

page 34 · Friday, October 6, 2000 
The Oburver . SPORTS 
... 
WOMEN'S ROWING 
Irish open third varsity season in Chicago, Rockford 
Senior captains and 

Ry JEFF BALTRUZAK 
coxswains Claire Bula and Erin Spurt> Wrirtcr 
Kiernicki lead the team into a 
new season. Kiernicki has found 

Op1•ning its third varsity sea­this year's team chemistry to be son, lhe Irish women's rowing excellent, with everyone work­team will put their oars to the ing togP-thcr effectively. water and their endurance to "We have a great team the tcst th is week end in two dynamic," she said. "It's hard to races on cons,~cutivc days describe, but it's made practices 
Tlw Irish will cnmpctP in lhe work better." Chicago Chase through down­ln addition to the captains. town Chicago on Saturday, and the young Irish rowers will rely will travel to Hockford. Ill., on on the leadership and expr,ri­Sunday to race .in tlw !lead of' l'nce of' senior Leah Ashe, junior the Hock compdilion. Catherine Burnett, and sopho­
Working with a young varsity mores Becky Luckett, Ashlee team, head coach Martin Stone Warren and Laura Aull. has set high aspirations for the "Each leader contributes in squad th~wcekend. different ways." Stone said. 
"We want to be within 2 pcr­The rowers in this weekend's ce nt of first varsity Wisonsin's and eight boa·t Iowa's time," "We have a great team illustrate how he explained. young Notrn
dynamic, its hard to 

"Last year we Dame truly is.
describe but it's made

were within 5 The Irish will percent. We'll practices work better." race with one do fairly well freshman, five in the pairs sop.homorcs,
Erin Kiernicki

this weekend. a junior and 
team captain

We've been just one rowing in pairs senior. a lot because it This fall in gives us a better feel for the practice, the Irish have been boat." concentrating on the technical 
The team's weekend race side of the sport. honing their schedule will pose a stamina strokes and developing their challenge, with some rowers cardiovascular base. competing in four races over "Fitness-wise, we're stronger just two days. But Stone isn't than last year, and technically worried. we're better as well." Stone 
"We're asking a lot of them. said. but the fatigue facLor shouldn't The team's diligence in train• be that bad," he said. ing has translated into faster times on the water. and Stone has been more than pleased with the training intensity put forth by the team. 

"In practice, the first varsity eight bnat has been faster than last year," he said. "I'm defi­nitely satisfied by what they've done so far this season." 
He also wants to battle-test his rowers this fall in hopes of preparing them for the spring sprint season. This competitive experience is especially critical for the novice team. a green squad comprised mainly of freshmen. 
"Part of the fall season is to get people out and giving them a feel for a race," said Stone. "I 
Goldman 
Saehs 
want the novices to learn to row well and get a good feel for the sport." 
Personnel wise. the Irish lust three members of their first varsity eight boat to study abroad programs. But Stone sees this as somewhat advanta­geous. 
"We're seeing some great per­formances from kids who have stepped up and competed for 
those  empty  spots,"  he  
explained.  
This year, Slone  lists  the  

team's major goals as becoming the best team in the Big East and reaching the NCAA champi­onships in the spring. To achieve the second goal. Notre Dame. made up of all walk-ons, faces stiff competition from more established teams that give scholarship aid. 
''For a team in its third year, I think we're fairly competitive," said Stone. "We should be the top Big East team." 
This weekend's races should serve as an indicator of the squad's progress toward their goals. "[They] should give us a good idea of where we are." Stone said. 
Kiernicki is confident for the weekend. "It's a first step toward putting Notre Dame rowing on the map," she said. "We're building ourselves as a threat." 

Investment Banking Information Session 
Sunday, October 8 
f '

7:30-9:30pm 
I 

Foster Room, LaFortune
-
Seniors: Learn about full time opportunities in GS investment banking. Remember to drop resumes on-line through GOIRISH by ·wed. Oct. 11. 
Friday, October 6, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 35 

TYLER
TOM KEELEY 
THINGS COULD BE WORSE
FOURTH AND INCHES 
WHATELY 

BILL AMEND
Fox TROT 
Ci,ETTIN~ A COLD. 




(SNIFF) YOU WANT 
AH COULD YOU NOT
YOU DRINK WHY, 'l'ES, 

AH OtNIC ME To <:tET 
AH Col-lOE. A &ALLON AH SEl>D AH THIS IS A 

COHOE! YELL IN MY FACE? 
AHM YOU A COMB? 
AH OLNI< AHM oF COKE? OINK AHM COAT I'M 

tE£H• I THINK You'RE 
&ED01G I &EDOIC:, A ' 6EOD16 A WEARING. 
OHH• 

A COHOE. COHOE. " ,, 
\ 
I 
I 

HOROSCOPE  
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2000  
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS  
DAY: Thor Heyerdahl, Stephanie  
Zimbalist, Britt Ekland, Elisabeth  
Shue,  
Happy Birthday: You are a leader,  
not a follower, this year. Stand up  
and let yourself be heard. It will be  
your tum to make a difference. Face  
any competition head-on, and you  
will find yourself in a winning posi­ 
tion. Positive actions will bring good  
results. You can force issues and be  
admired for your tenacity. Your mun­ 
bers: 3, 17, 21, 28, 36, 39  
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You  
will be compulsive about attaining  
your goals. Do everything possible to  
stay ahead of the competition, but  
don't lose perspective. Attend to per•  
sonal responsibilities. 000  
TAURUS (April 20-May 20):  
Your need to be in the limelight will  
lead you to do things that normally  
you wouldn't consider. You can ex­ 
pect to attract new friends and lovers,  
butbe discriminating. 0000  
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't  
be too quick to put money into risky  
ventures. You need to clear your per­ 
sonal debts before shelling out more  
cash. Legal matters will not be in  
your favor today. 000  
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You  
will be uncertain about your person­ 
e.g.  48 On-line activity  al life. Try not to push your partner to the limit. Your own insecurities  
41 Political analyst  50 "Rocky Ill" actor  will break down the connection you  
Myers 44 Buggy places?  51 Where to find Charlie Rose  once had. 00 LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Sudden changes at work may leave you feel­ 
ing uncomfortable and insecure  
about your position. Maintain your 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
professionalism, and start looking for 
are available by touch-tone phone: 
a new job. 000 

1-900-420-5656 (95ft per minute). 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
EUGENIA LAST 
should be making personal changes that will help you feel better about yourself. Your need to do for others may lead toward some volunteer work that will result in meeting new people. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You can bet that someone you live with is experiencing difficulties. Put some time into making your surroundings better for everybody. Make plans to spend time with loved ones. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your need for change should lead you on short trips. You will enjoy the com­pany of friends or relatives. Keep an open mind, and you may loosen up a little. 0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Look into personal legal matters that will affect your financial posi­tion. You need to tie up loose ends as quickly as possible. Love will devel­op if you attend group functions. 
000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Don't let your emotions get the better of you. You are likely to take things the wrong way. Get an explanation if you are uncertain about a comment or a situation that has developed. 
00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Someone you work with may not be giving you the whole picture. Do some research of your own. You may discover that you are in a better posi­tion than you think. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You are attracting the wrong individuals. Don't lend money to those who are buttering you up. Compliments will be insincere, and you could be made to look like a fool. 00 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Place for tired Turkish travelers 
7 Liberal, in politics 15 41-Across 
request 16 Doctor, at times 17 American 
Shaker leader 18 No place for a rig 19 Seascape 
sights 20 Weasel 21 Prefix with cycle 22 City on the 
Hudson 23 Lacks 24 Kind of engr. 25 It may be hard 
to follow 
26 Zoe's role in "Master Class" 27 Sao Paulo has one 
28 ''There's no turning back now'' 
30 Summer stretch: Abbr. 31 Dates 32 Secretly 36 Like a bairn 37 Bullheaded one? 38 Crab apple and others 41 Where to work on the side 42 One on le trone 43 Sch. with tuition 44 Work stations 45 Abbr. on an invoice 46 Abbr. in a price 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
R T E 
IA 
.;;;;..f-.....:.+~.;;;.,._;;..;..i 
-:-+:+.,.,.+-,::+.:,-t --+=+--+--f 
s 


47 "_again!" 48 Swamp sound 49 Gurkha 
conquest of 
1768 
51 One of the friends on "Friends" 
52 Quarterbacks 53 Igneous rock 54 View from 
Aberdeen 55 Units of volume 
DOWN 1 Perturbed 2 Ruling class 3 Kind of sac 4 Good news for 
an investor 5 They may be blue in the face 6 Place for a ring, 
perhaps 7 Passage 8 Queen City of 
the Rockies 9 Beethoven's "Eroica" is in it 10 Bulbous vegetable 11 Like some observations 12 "Coming Up for 
Air'' novelist 13 Did a farm job 14 It sublimes at 
-109.26°F 
20 Agra attire 23 Speeders make 
it 


29 Did a farm job 30 Baxter and others 32 They're heard in 
a pen 33 Beam's path 34 Like Yogi Berra 35 Party favors 37 Title first 
awarded in 1952 38 Gain, as weight 

Birthday Baby: You are methodical and helpful when dealing with others. 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
You leave nothing to chance and' believe in hard work, dedication and
years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

persistence. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialaslcom, astromate.com.) 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
-









Headin' East 
Playing without freshman sensation Amy Warner. Notre Dame takes on Georgetown and Villanova this weekend. 
PORTS 
page 29 

O
THE page 36 BSERVER Friday, October 6, 2000 
Renewing Route 31 rivalry 

• Belles, Irish swim at weekend Notre Dame Relays 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Spom W rifer 
The Notre Dame Relays may be used as an important tool for coaches to prepare their swim­mers for the upcoming season, but when the Notre Dame and
... 
Saint Mary's women's swimming teams compete this weekend, it will mark another important occasion. 
It is the only time this year that the Irish and the Belles will com­pete against each other in inter­collegiate competition. 
ll has not always been this way. 
When the Irish were developing their women's athletic programs. they consistently played the Belles every season. 
However, as Notre Dame grew in athletic prominence and moved to the Division I level, it stopped competing against Saint Mary's. 
That does not mean that a rival­ry does not exist. Ever since the Irish women's swimming team reached varsity status in 1981, both schools looked forward to the annual Notre Dame-Saint Mary's swimming meeting. 
"There has always been a huge rivalry between the two teams in swimming," said Gail Casey, who swam for Saint Mary's in 1983. 
Beginning together 
When the two teams started out, they were relatively equal. llowever. as the Irish swimming program developed, the differ­ence between the two teams became more evident. In 1983, the two-year-old Irish program narrowly defeated the Belles 78­
see RIVALRY/page 31 

JEFF HSU/The Observer Irish Junior Heather Mattingly finished 15th in the three-meter diving competition at the NCAA Championships last season. Notre Dame takes part in the Notre Dame Relays today. 
CROSS COUNTRY 
Top national teams take part in "Invitational 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Associ2tc Spores Editor 
-
The Irish got more than they bargained for in putting together a field for the 2000 Notre Dame Invitational. Both the men's and women's varsity races feature six top 25 teams. 
making a championship by the host school unlikely. 
"It's a great competition," Notre Dame women's cross country coach Tim Connelly said. "Our biggest goal is to see how good we are. I think we're pretty solid, and what we need to do is see how we stack up against some of the best teams in the country." 
The Notre Dame women's squad captured the top spot a year ago, while the men fin­ished third. However. the level of competition is up a notch this year, while Notre Dame's teams were depleted by gradu­ation. 
"My goal would be to be in the top five or six," Connelly said. " We're not a team with a whole lot of margin for error. We're going to need our 'A' races." 
No. 1 Stanford heads the list of opposing women's teams, followed by No. 5 North Carolina State, No. 13 Michigan, No. 15 Arizona, No. 24 Duke and No. 25 Ball State. A total of 31 teams will com­pete in the varsity race. 

"It's by far the biggest meet we've ever had," Connelly said. "In fact, it's a little bit bigger than I would have liked." 
Top runner Jen Handley returns to action for the Irish after missing the National Catholic Invitational because of a sore foot. 
"I know it's going to be real­
ly tough competition," said 
Handley, a sophomore. " Last 
year, l was sixth in the race, 
but the competition is better 
this year. I just want to stay up 
there at the front of the race 
and hang in there as long as I 
can." 

Aside from Handley, the 
Irish will run their seven varsi­
ty runners from the National 
Catholic meet as well as senior 
LeAnne Brady. 

Many of the top-25 teams on the women's side also boast ·top-25 men's programs. No. 2 
see RUNNERS/page 28 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Belles look 
to sting 
Hornets 
. Metzger makes 2nd start in net for Saint Mary's 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Sports Writer 
Saturday will be a battle of rookie goalkeepers as the Saint Mary's Belles travel to Kalamazoo to take on the Hornets for the second time this season. 
"(Goalkeeper] Laura [Metzger] has improved drastically throughout the season," said Tia Kapphahn, junior goalkeeper and for­ward. "We're much more sure of ourselves with her in the goal." 
Metzger will make her sec­ond career start in goal against Kalamazoo after her first solo appearance in the loss to II ope on Tuesday. Hornets goalie Adrienne Bellar cemented the 5-0 shutout victory over the Belles earlier this season. and will be looking for her second win against Saint Mary's as Metzger looks to redeem her team and earn her first collegiate win. 
"Everyone on the team has confidence in her," Adrian Kirby, junior midfielder, said. "Having her in goal lets Tia [Kapphahn, the Belles goalie at the start of the season] play in the field which benefits the whole team." 
Kapphahn stepped into the goalie slot for the 2000 sea­son after Brie Gerschick transferred after a solid sea­son in the net for the Belles. 
Kapphahn played forward for the majority of the 1999 season after spending her freshman year as the backup to the starting goalie. 
Kapphahn sees Metzger's netminding to be an advan­tage to the Belles in their second match against Kalamazoo. 
"I think when we first played Kalamazoo we came out really flat," the tri-cap­tain said. "A lot of the [play­ers] were psyched out. But this time we have Laura on one end of the field. which will help." 
The Belles enter Saturday's game with a sixth-place 2-4-1 MIAA 
see SOCCER/page 33 

at Georgetown ~ at Lake Forest Invitational Today, 4 p.m. ',;ijjj/ Saturday
SPORTS 
vs. Stanford Saturday, I :30 p.m.
ATA 
Cross country at West Virginia 
Notre Dame Invitational Saturday, 11 a.m.

f9 
Today, 4:15 p.m. 

GLANCE 


page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 6, 2000 

gan1e hype 
LoVecchio takes helm of Irish offense 
By KATIE McVOY Assistant Sports Editor 
The key word for the Irish 
this weekend is offense. 
Coming off of a disappoint­ing loss to Michigan State two weeks ago and a break last week, the offense will have to find new strategies to notch a win against Stanford. 
"As we move forward, we .all realize that w<>, have to open things up," head coach Bub Davie said at a press conference on Tuesday. ··we have to become a little more creative." 
t<ollowing three games in which his offense netted less than 250 yards each outing, Oavie wants to see a more potent running game. 
"rWe need] more productiv­ity on the ground," he said. "Not so much running it more, but being more pro­ductive." 
The rest of the calls may depend on quarterback per­formance. 
With Arnaz Battle out indefinit-,Jy, Davie· pegged freshman Matt LoVecchio as the Notre Dame starter and sophomore Gary Godsey as the backup. 
"I LuVecchio] gives us the best opportunity," Davie said. ''I'm anxious to see him play and I know kevin (Rogers] feels the same way." 
Despite the inexperience of both Lovecchio and Godsey, Davie believes that that past two weeks have provided some much needed experi­ence, allowing the young sig­nal callPrs to mature. 

"Those young players, all of the sudden, because we've had this situation for a cou­ple of weeks, are no longer young players," said Davie. 
With Lovecchio at the helm of the Irish offense, Notre Dame will be will be able to run the option. However, should Godsey have to fill in during the game, fans can expect to see the ball in the air more often. 
"It's not all pass with Gary 
GAME DAY SPECIAL f Large, I Topping 
r ------, 
I I 

I 
I Bread$t/Clcs I Papa Predicts: 2 Liter 
I 
$12.99 

L------..1 NOTR-E DAME -28 
Family Special

r ------, STANFORD -24 
1 Lorge w/Wo,t.s
I I 
1 l.01ge, 2 Topping
I I 
$17.9901 I E.tra Large $20.99 I 

r------, 
L------.J Notre Dame Saint Mary's 271-1177 271-7272 I Grand Popa I 
I I Extra Lorge. I Monday-Thursday 11 am-1 am~­
I 2 Toppings I Friday-Saturday 11 am -3 am L $10.99 .J Sunday Noon -1 am 
"'The most popular # on campus" 
in there," he said. "But cer­tainly the option part of it is missing." 
With a still unproven offense, Davie will be relying on a strong defensive unit to keep his team in the game against Stanford. Players who were unable to play last year have added the needed depth to the defense. 
"We've got some players back that we did not have last year," Davie said. "We've got corner Brock Williams fand] free safety Tony Oriver. 
I think we're able to do a few more things def'ensiVf'ly." 
Although the blitz was very cffectivl~ for Arizona last week against Stanford, Davie is not going to count on that as his main defensive strate­gy. 
"I don't think it is in our best intorest to go in and just blitz then every down," he said. "They have seen a bunch of that stuff before, and they do a great job of throwing those jailbreak screens." 


Jim Jones 

offensive guard 
"Stanford is the kind of team that is capable of heating anybody in the country." 

Tony Fisher free safety 
..No matter where you go, the field dimensions are not going to change. Thats what you have to deal with." "We need to get after them early. We're going to be coming ajter them all day. " 

Bob Davie Irish coach 
"We've got to open up our offense the way we did whenArnaz was in and just play our style football. " 

Tyrone Willingham 
Cardinal coach 



r------, 
I 1 Large, 1 Topping I I $8.99 OR I I 2 Large, 2 Topping I $13.00 .J
L -----­
Manag•r'$ Sp•cta/
r ------,
I I Lora•. 2 Topping and 4 I 
I Cans of I I Coco-Colo Claulc I 
$10.99
L-------' 
r------,I Late Night Special I I 9pm I
-I am 
I Large One Topping I $7.99
L-------' 

Friday, October 6, 2000 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
.Gandy comes into his own 
• Fifth-year senior grows athletically, academically 
By TJM CASEY Assistant Sports Editor 

Gandy

The class met every Friday and Saturday night in the 
position: right guard

spring of 1997 and 1998. 
year: senior

For a fow hours, several loot­baII pla:rcrs. who were strug­awards: all-city, all-district gling academically, sat in the and all-area pick in hiqh football office, studying and 
school, named to 2000 pre­

reading, whil<1 an assistant 
season All-Independent

coach looked on. 
Its name? Davie 101. teams by The Sporting News "That was a last ditch eifort." and Football News, predict­said Mary Ann Spence. the ed as an NFL draftee by The 
assistant director for Academic 
Sporting News 

Services at Notre Dame, who 
notables: one offour return­

hrlped the football players deal with academics. "It was one ing regulars on offensive 1:1or~ way to get their atten­line, started every game in 
t1011. 
'99 and helped Irish rank 

Among the attendees was 
2 Isl in total offense

Mike Gandy. currently the lrish's starting right guard. "I 'Nas a frequent member," sive end his final two seasons. 
Gandy said. By the summer of 1995, Gandy was pursued by the likes of Texas, Texas A&M, Michigan.
Developing 
Florida State and Ohio State.

During his first two years at Notre Dame, Gandy needed any Some schools wanted him on additional help he could 
defense, others on offense. receive. A low grade point aver­But they all wanted him. age, a minimal work ethic and 
"Guys were at my house every day," Gandy said. "People don't

a tendency to skip classes com­bined to put Gandy in a difficult understand, the phone is literal­ly ringing all night long. After
situation. He was on academic probation more than once, 
awhile, it became the biggest according to Spence. 
hassle and pain I've ever gone through. f wanted to get it over

So in addition to the tutoring sessions and guidance provided as quickly as possible." After making three visits,
by the University, Gandy was ordered to attend Davie 101. a then-Irish linebacker Bert Berry 
study hall started by coach Bob hosted Gandy and showed him the campus life. Two days after
Davie and his staff. "l wasn't very mature," arriving, while eating breakfast 
Gandy said. "I kind of coasted at Lou Holtz's house, Gandy months stretching, lifting and nagged, pleaded and begged." 300-pound NFL prospect.
made his decision. 

by. It put me in a pretty big hole 
doing anything possible to Finally, Gandy decided he "He'll be an NFL player, no
that I had to get out of." He started his Irish career as 
return to the field. He had daily would listen to his mother, Borbely
At times, Davie thought the a tight end and wore No. 82 question," said. 
sessions with Irish trainer Jim Spence and the coaches. "There's no doubt in my mind.
hole was as large as the Grand [because Bobby Brown had No. 
Russ, who Gandy credits for · "One day I just made up my They'll love him."
88, Gandy's high school num­Canyon. 

providing motivation. mind I didn't like the way I was But when his football careerber] but never played in a game
"There was a point where I 
But despite the success in living my life," Gandy said. "I ends, Gandy still has dual
as a freshman.

wasn't sure if he would make it 
rehabilitation, Gandy continued didn't like that I was letting so degrees in sociology and com­here," Davie said. "He always his classroom woes. The acade­many people down. When I puter applications and is alsohad enough ability. But overall, 
Trying times mic pressures caused Gandy to started doing things the right taking business courses this
I wasn't sure." 
consider his situation. way, everything fell in place." fall. His favorite is a class in
During the winter months,Whenever Jim Jones views 

"I thought I could go back to entrepreneurship, a field heGandy was moved to the defen­
photographs of Gandy as a 
Texas and play," Gandy said. may pursue.
sive line before going back to

freshman, he has the same 
"You have that feeling but my Bringing it all together "I want to start my own busi­tight end in the spring.
expression. 
When he arrived for his sec­mom didn't want ine to leave. On May 21, 2000, Mike Gandy ness, have something of my"Every time I take a look at 
She realized if I left, I would be walked across the stage in the own and watch it grow," Gandy ond season, Gandy switched tothat in the game book, I kind of 
offensive guard. taking the easy way out." Joyce Center auditorium and said.
laugh," said Jones, a fellow 
Ladeta Gandy influenced her received his diploma from one For Gandy's family, coachesAfter playing tight end in afifth-year senior starter on the 
run-dominated wing T offense son enough to stick through the of the nation's top 20 universi­and academic advisors, theyoffensive line. "It's like, if these rough times. ties. As he glanced at the thou­have already seen a 17-year oldat Garland High School, Gandyguys see his picture, they can't By the spring, the cast was sands of people watching the · boy develop into a 21-year oldhad little difficulty changingbe too intimidated." 
positions again. A few days removed and Gandy participat­graduation, Gandy saw his adult.
Said Gandy: "I was a pencil­mother, aunts and grandmoth­
prior to the Oct. 11 Pittsburgh ed in the 15 practices. "The Mike Gandys are whatneck." 
He began the 1998 campaign er, who had made the long trip make all this [coaching] worth­game, Gandy suffered his first 
major on-field setback. alternating with senior guard north. while," Davie said. "That's what Tim Ridder and even lined up at Tears flowed from each of you do this for." 
Pencil neck to top recruit During a practice drill, Gandy 
their eyes.

In the fall of 1996, the 6-foot-got "leg-whipped" by a team­fullback in goal-line situations "It wasn't easy or pretty. But 4 inch Gandy weighed a mere mate and tripped. Before he during the Baylor game. When "It was like an epiphany," it got done," said Spence. 215 pounds. Ile had started could get tip, several players Jerry Wisne suffered a knee said Gandy, who had over a 3.0 From Davie 101 to doing well injury against Navy, Gandy was grade point average in his last in 400-level courses, Gandy has
playing football only three years piled on top of the sophomore. thrust into the starting role. He two semesters. 'That whole day emerged as not only an on-field
before. After knocking out four Gandy broke a bone above his 
front teeth during a soccer left ankle and dislocated his has started every game since. I thought about the troubles leader but as a model for matu­"He's 10 times better than he and the hard times I went rity.
game. Gandy decided to give up foot from the ankle socket. He the sport he had been playing missed the rest of the season. was two years ago," offensive through. Then I looked in my "It's almost over for me," 
line coach Mike Borbely said. hand and had my diploma. I Gandy said. "I never really
since early childhood. "It was so frustrating being Besides the football improve­was with all my friends. It's still appreciated anything until right
The S\.\itch proved to be a rel­away from football," Gandv atively easy task for the athletic said.· "It's like a part of you was ment, Gandy's grades and moti­a good feeling right now." now. But I've been fortunate to vation also increased. Now, Gandy is a fifth-year be around great people who
native of Garland. Texas. Gandy gone. I had no friends because senior starter for the 2-2 Irish.
playnd on the junior varsity they were all at practice. It was Slowly. helped push me when r didn't "It got as bad as you can get," Ile has gone from a self­want to go forward. I'm more of
squad as a sophomore before just traumatic." 
Spence said. "I encouraged, described "tall and lanky" to a a man now."
starting at tight end and defon-Gandy spent the next several 

birthdate: January 3, 1979 younger: Dallas Cowboys, Dallas ty, versatility and hostility 
hometown: Garland, Texas Mavericks, Texas Rangers and area he would like to improve as a dorm: off-campus Garland Owls football player: all areas major: Sociology and word to describe him on the field: big­favorite food to eat for pregame meal: 
up close & 
personal 

computer applicalions 'oo time blueberry muffins dimensions: 6-foot-4, 3 IS pounds greatest personal athletic moment: favorite CD: All Ryez on Me by WITH MIKE GANDY teams Gandy followed when he was perfect display qfmobility, agili-Tupac Shakur 
page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 6, 2000 
IN POSITION: defensive line 

Fighting Irish schedule 
Sep.2 Sep.9 Sep 
TEXASA&M  W  
N  L  
UE  W  



;~.-.0 state L
N~,;--:•... 

Oct. 21 at West \lrrginia Oct. 28 AIR FORCE Nov. 11 BOSTON COLLEGE Nov. 18 at Rutgers Nov. 25 at USC 

third season at Notre Dame 
career record: 
23-18 
at Notre Dame: 
ERNESTO LACAYO/The Observer 
23-18 

Defensive end Anthony Weaver (No. 98) tackles Michigan State running
Davie against opponent: 

back T.J. Duckett in Notre Dame's 27-21 loss Sept. 23. head coach 1-2 
Solid defenses hold ground
Roster 

Observer Staff Report I Brock Willi.ims CB 5-10 190 SR 2 Carin.-. Pi-.•rn•·Antninl• (LB 6--3 242 JR No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR 
The Irish defensive line will be hard

2 Dan Novi1.kov (JB b-1 220 so 3 Arna, llilttl,· QB 6-1 2111 JR 
pressed to match the Cardinal's rock 

4 Justin Smith rs 5-11 197 SR 
solid del'P.nse. Stanford's defense held

5 Ron hmwl S5 t,..-0 208 SR 6 D,wid Givl•n:; Fl 6-3 217 JR 
Texas to 13 yards rushing in its victo­

7 Carly!,• I h,liday QB 6-2 19(1 FR 
ry over the Longhorns and recorded 

H l.nrl•nzo Cri1wfrnd WR 5-11 175 rn 
live sacks as well.

9 Jared Clark QB 6--4 220 FR 10 M.itl I .oVL'ixhio UB 6-3 200 FR 
Notre Uame's def'ense, however, is 

Ill Kyan Krueg,•r VB 5--9 178 JR 
stronger than it has been in years. The 

II J.iy Johnson SF 5-11 195 FR 12 Tony Fisher TB 6-2 22., JR 
Irish arc on pace to tie the school 

13 Nick Sett,, K/1' 6-0 175 so 
record for sacks, with defensive end 

13 J,w R,•c,•ml,•z (_)8/TF 6-0 222 SR 
Hyan Hoberts leading the way with

14 Cary Codl-il'Y (JB 6-7 240 so 15 Clifford Jl'ff,•rson Cll 5-9 180 JR 
four. Roberts has surprised fans since 

lh Abmrn Elam QB/DI! 6-1 190 FR 
stepping in for the injured captain

17 Joey llildbold I' 5-10 19(1 so 
(;rant Irons. Senior defensive tackle

18 Juey t;c-th,•rall FL 5-7 175 SR l9 l;knn b1rl SS 6-2 215 so 
B.J. Scott has also performed beyond 20 l,~romL' Sapp FS 6-0 210 FR 21 Javin I lunter SE 6-0 181, JR 22 Juliul'i Jone~ ·rn >"10 201 so 
2.1 Chri~ Yurct FB 5-11 211 so 24 Chad D,•Buli CB 5-10 193 so 25 Tony Driwr I'S 6-2 220 SR 26 Carron Bibll' RB 5-10 185 FR 
DEPTH CHARTS 

Casey Robin 63 Brennan Curtin OT 6-8 315 so 
Stanford 

1\4 John Crowthn C 6-2 240 JR 65 Sean MIil i._;an ex~ 6--4 295 so 
OFFENSE 
s 
s
z. 

most people's expectations !'or him. 
Against Michigan State, defensive end Anthony Weaver intercepted a Jeff Smoker pass and return,~d it to the 2-yard line, setting up a Notre Dame touchdown. Weaver has tallied 26 tackles on the season, including three sacks. Nose guard Lance Legree sits just behind Weaver with 22 tack­les. 
Notre Dame's defensive line is improved to the point that most people wouldn't recognize it from a year ago. However. Stanford starts first team All-PAC 10 selection Willie Howard, with his fellow linemen nicknamed the "Trench Dogs" for their unity and improved play. 
Cardinal schedule 
Sep. 2 at Washington St w L 

w 
L at N_ ., . ~-1 

at · ·,.:,,.-· J•. Oct 21 US . . . cc· f.(~\ 
Oct28W~·­Nov.4 atU Nov. 11 ARIZONA ST. Nov. 18 CALIFORNIA 

sixth season at Stanford 
career record: 
32-28-1 
at Stanford: 
32-28-1 

Willingham against Notre head coach Dame: 2-1 
No. Name 2 DcRonnic Pitts 3 Caleb Bowman 4 Kyan Wells 5 Teyn _,ohnson I, Luk,• Powell 
Roster  
Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  \'R  
WR  5-11  195  SR  
WR  6-1  185  JR  
WR  6-tl  195  JI{  
QB  6-7  256  FR  
WR  5-8  165  so  


7 Ryan Fernandt.•z CB 5-11 175 JR 8 Kerry Carter RB 6-2 2'.15 so 9 Chijioke Asomugha CB 5-11 185 JR JO Chris Lewis QB 6-3 2.05 so 12 Randy Fasani QB 6-4 2J5 SR 13 Tank Williams FS 6-3 215 JR 14 Ryan Eklund QB 6-7 205 FR 15 Brian Taylor CB 5-J I 183 JR 17 Mikl' Biselli l'K 5-10 195 SR 18 Amon Gordon 11.ll/l'B 6-4 280 FR 19 Scan Tolpinrud I' 6-3 195 SR 20 Colin Branch SS/FS 6-0 200 JR 21 Eddie Gayles WR 5-8 185 SR 22 Coy Wire 55 6-1 215 SR 23 Gn.•g Camarillo WR/I' 6-2 195 FR 24 Jamien McCullom WR 6-0 190 SR 25 Emnry Brock rn 5-11 220 SK 26 Aaron Focht ss 5-10 190 SR 27 Jim Johnson CB 5-10 180 so 28 Stanley Wilson CB 6-1 175 FR 29 Lei~h Torrence CB t,-0 175 FR 30 Brandon Royster RB 6-0 195 FR 31 Gary Cobb rn 5-11 180 JR 32 Justin Faust RB 6-0 200 so 33 Casey Moore FB 6-2 240 JR 34 Brian Allen RB 5-10 200 JR 35 Greg Davis PK 6-3 215 so 36 Pat Jacobs ILB 6-2 225 so 37 Jc1son Cooper P/PK 6-3 215 so 36 Pat Jacobs ILB 6-2 225 so 37 jJson Cooper P/l'K 6-3 215 so 38 Jake Covault ILB 6-3 225 so 39 Eric Johnson !'/PK 5-11 175 so 40 Scott Giles OLB 6-4 225 JR 41 Byron Glaspie FB 6-1 245 SR 42 Rubl'n Carter CB 5-8 170 SR 43 Jason White CB 6-0 184 JR 44 Brian Brant !Lil 6-3 230 so 45 Simb• Hodari ss 6-1 202 SR 46 0.J-Atogwc CB 5-11 180 FR 47 Kenneth Tolon II RB 6-1 190 FR 48 Eran Landry FB 6-2 235 so 50 Mike Burke ILB 6-1 228 SR 51 Matt Frit)drichs !LB 6-1 242 SR 52 Anthony Gabriel ILB 6-3 240 SR 53 Jared Newberry !LB 6-2 230 FR 54 llrian Gaffney II.B 6-2 233 so 55 Cooper Blackhurst ILB 6-4 245 so 56 Craig Albrecht NT 6-5 295 JR 57 David Bergeron ILB 6-4 245 FR 58 John Sande LS 5-10 220 SR 60 Zack Quaccia OC 6-2 250 FR 63 Mike Sullivan OT 6-7 310 so 64 DamwnTmsley OC 6-5 300 SR 65 Mike Holman C 6-3 285 SR 66 Edmond O'Neal III QC 6-4 265 so 67 Kirk Chambers OT 6-7 295 FR 68 Ben Garrison OT 6-8 285 SR 69 Greg Schindler OT 6-6 310 JR 70 Sam Benner DE 6-5 275 SR 71 Kwame Harris OT 6-7 320 FR 72 Dustin Stimson DT 6-3 290 so 73 Tom Kolich C 6-o 245 JR 74 Erk Toner OC 6-5 276 SR 75 Eric Heitmann 0G 6-4 295 JR 76 Paul Weinacht OT 6-5 280 JR 77 Willie Howard DT 6-4 298 SR 78 Travis Pfeifer DT 6-4 274 SR 80 NickSebes WR 5-11 175 FR 81 Evan Combs WR 5-9 170 JR 83 Matt Wright TE 6-5 260 SR 84 Russell Stewart TE 6-5 245 SR 85 Will Svilek DE 6-7 235 FR 87 Alex Smith TE 6-5 220 FR 88 Brett Pierce TE 6-6 245 so 89 Darin Naatjes TE 6-7 240 so 90 Louis Hobson DE 6-3 243 so 
<..., 

92 Marcus Hoover DE 6-4 265 SR 93 Trey Freeman NT 6-3 312 JR 94 Austin Lee DE 6-6 270 SR 95 Drew Caylor DE 6-6 260 so 97 Rial I Johnson 01.Jl 6-3 240 SR 98 Scott Scharff DE 6-5 245 FR 9~ Matt Leonard DE 6-4 290 JR 
27 
2H 29 
30 31 32 33 34 34 35 35 36 38 
3H 3Y 
40 41 42 
43 
44 45 46 47 48 49 511 51 52 
52 
53 54 55 56 57 
SH 
59 
1,(1 61 h2 
Jdson llud,strom IJon<1ld Dykes Brian Olmkzak Rocky lloiman Dwayne J:randi,. Terrance IInward Courtn,•y Watson Vontez Duff Jascint Vuk,•lich David Millc-r Tim tYNeill Tum Lopi,•nski Preston Jackson Eric Ndson Anthony Denman J,1son Murrdy Mik,• Goolsby SharwWdlton Anthony Brannan Grnnt Irons Matt Sarb )lorcmy Juarez Mik,• McNair Kyk• Budinscak D,,rck Curry C.\•dm llilliard Tyreo Harrison Jl'ff l',1rne Mark Mitchell Jilsnn I li1lvorson Luigi Rao Jim Jones l'at Ryan Justin Thomas Joseph Mueller Brian Dicrckman Darrell C.1mpbl'II Mike Zdmka CB 
SS 
FL 01.B 
CB 
TB 
ILR 
KB 
1'8 
K 
TB 
l'B 
DB 
1.8 
ll.B 
Fil 18 CB IIR DE 
55 FB 
Fil 
Ill. 
LB 
DT 
11.B 
C O1.B 
I.B 11.B ex_; ILB OLB 
1.8 
ILB DE Fil OT 
5-10 
5-11 5-11 6-4 6-0 6-1 6-1 
6-1 
5-10 
5-11 
5-5 6-1 5-10 
6-0 
6-2 6-1 
h-4 
5-11 5--10 
6-5 
5-11 5-11 
6-0 
6-5 6--4 6-2 6-2 6-3 5-10 6-2 5-IU 6-2 
6-3 
6-1 5-11 6-1 6-4 
6--0 
6-7 
190 195 
195 
240 
195 
195 
220 
175 229 191 170 
245 
172 225 
235 
259 
225 
183 215 
275 
201 251 240 250 
225 
290 242 292 220 230 215 
310 
235 245 195 255 285 225 305 
so 
JR SR JR JR JR 
so 
FR 
SR 
JR JR JR FK JR SR SR FR JR SR 
SR 
JK SR JR 
l'R 
FR so JR 
so 
SR 
so SR SK 
so so SR SR so SR SR 


66 
67 
18 
70 
n 
73 75 76 
77 
78 79 
80 
81 82 
82 
83 H3 84 85 86 87 89 
'IO 
91 
92 
93 94 95 
9b 
98 99 JW Jordan 
Ryan Gillis 
Mike Candy 
Jim Molim1ro 
Ryan Scarola 
Adam Tibhk• 
Kurt VollL•r~ 
John Tcasdale 
Grq; l'auly 
Jordan Black 
Senn Mah,m 
Omnr Jenkins 
Jerome Collins 
Ronnie Rckiamcr 
1lt•rno1rd Akatt, Josh Gentile 
13n.•nd,u1. tlc1rt John Owrns Jdfn•y Campbell 
Dan O'Leary J,1bari I loll<>way Gerald Morg..1n 
Lance Lcgrc"C 
Andr~w Dempsey 
M•tt McN,•w 
B.J. Scott Andy Wisne Kyan Roberts Billy Palm,•r Anthony Weavc,r Jason Sapp 
C 
0G 
0G 
DE 
ex; 
K OT OT 
m. 
OT OT 
WR 
WR 
WR 
SE 
K/P TE DE TE/Dli TE TE TI~ NC DE 
K 
DT DT DE TE DT 
LB 
6-1 6-3 6-4 6-6 6-5 5-11 6-7 6-5 6-6 6-6 6-3 6-2 6-4 6-4 5-10 5-11 6-3 • 6-3 6-1 6-3 6-3 
6---4 
6-1 6-2 
6-3 
6-3 
6-3 
6-2 6-3 6-3 6-3 


275 292 
315 
265 301 201 
310 
305 
275 310 
288 
180 
200 185 !RO 199 250 265 200 260 260 
261 
285 
265 
200 290 272 2.,1 250 276 230 
SR so 
SR 
so 
JR JR 
SR 
SR PR JR JR FR FR FR JR so 
FR 
JR JR 
SR 
SR JR SR 
SR 
SR SR SR JR FR JR FR 
3­
COffNERBACKLEFT TACKLE 
42-W,llan17-t:h 
15-Jatterson
71• 
OUARTEffBACK 
.~j~~!. 
_:::, 
\1 ¦9t,--~.;,.
1, 
STAQl,IG SAFETY 
»'io 5-ltruf : 20·S4pp 
1n11on :t 
lflrra-Antolne 
• AA•~~
25·Drlver 
' 28-0ykes

·' JI 
:~glflfflB!l (' .. ! .l L_: 
33-Watson 

~?l,~1r::cK c ' I 
27"!l~l<strom 
TAILBACK 34-AJl•n 
a-carter 
~~::~K 
25-Brod< 

Friday, October 6, 2000 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page S 
EYE ON THE ENEMY 
2-2 Cardinal aims to rebound against Irish 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associate Sports Editor 
The Cardinal comes into Saturday's gam(• like a fire­cracker -whether it will go off like a sparkler or a big~ time explosion is the ques­tion. 
Stanford's season has spiked up and down, with losses to San Jose State and Arizona, but victories over Washington State and No. 11 Texas. 
The Cardinal (2-2) does best against tougher foes, which could be dangerous for the Irish on Saturday. 
The Stanford defense limit­ed the Longhorns to 13 yards rushing. pick<'d up five sacks and 10 tackles for loss and tallied two interceptions. 
ThA Cardinal defense is on the rise, having improved in run defonse, pass defense, scoring dofonsc and total defense since last year. 
"It is a good football team that, you know, is capable of beating anyone," Notre Dame head coach Bob Davie said. 
"I'm sure they will rebound this week and play their best football gam<' of the year, and that's what we're counting on them to do. And that's why \Ve know that we have to raise our level of play in every area." 
Senior defensive lineman Willie Howard provides thP strongest front for the Cardinal. Howard was a first team All-PAC 10 selection a year ago. 
Another key cog in Stanford's success is wide receiver and kickoff/punt returner DeRonnie Pitts. 
The 5~foot-11 senior ranks in the top 10 i.n school history in receptions, yards and touchdowns. 
He already has four touch­downs this year, with 20 receptions for 247 yards. 
The Stanford rushing game, however, is a problem. It ranks even behind Notre Dame's at 89th in the nation. 
Like the Irish. the Cardinal faces major uncertainties at the quarterback position. Starter Randy Fasani under­went knee injury following 


fast facts 
ABOUT STANFORD 
. 
Location: Palo Alto, Calif. . Enrollment: 13,900 

. 
Colors: Cardinal and white 

. 
Nickname: Cardinal . Conference: PAC-10 . Founded: 1891 



Stanford's victory against Texas Sept. 16. 
Since then. sophomore Chris Lewis is the go-to guy, but Notre Dame marks his first road game. 
Backing up Lewis is fresh­man Teyo Johnson, who also plays basketball. 
Notrn Dame tried to recruit Lewis and Johnson, but lost out in the hunt to Stanford. 
"T think it's verv similar," Stanford head coach Tyrone Willingham said of the quar­terback situation. "I think he [Davie] is starting a quarter­back there for the first time, too, and he has to have all the right answers and do the right things with his quarter­back. It's very much the same." 
Willingham piloted the Cardinal into the Hose Bowl a season ago. 
He's not quite on pace for a repeat in 2000. 
·while the Irish just toiled through four straight games against top 25 teams, Notre Dame marks the first of five ranked opponents· for Stanford. 
. 
Notre Dame's early-season schedule ranks as the toughest in the nation, while Stanford's is No. 2. 

. 
Stanford's band is prohibited from playing on Notre Dame's campus after poking fun at the Irish in 1997. 



AROUND THE NATION 
page 6 A LOOK AT TIiis WEEKEND'S COLU<'.GE fOOTHALL ACTION Friday, October 6, 2000 -·--------­
-·------. ----·--·-·-----=--=-====---------~ _:::====~-==============~======================~=============================== 
AP poll  
ll'am r('cord points  
1  Florida Stale 5-0 1,745  
2  Nebraska 4-0 1,731  
3  Virginia Tech 4-0 1,576  
4  Kanaas Stale 5-0 1,574  
5  Clemson 5·0 1,451  
6  Michigan 4·1 1,353  
7  Miami (Fla.) 3-1 1,274  
8  Ohio State 4-0 1,218  
9  Oregon 4·1 1,031  
10  Oklahoma 4-0 1,017  
11  Texas 3-1 999  
12  Florida 4-1 940  
13  Washington 3·1 920  
14  TCU 4-0 875  
15  Auburn 5-0 869  
16  UGLA 4·1 631  
I I I I I  .  17 18 19 20 21 22  So. Mississippi 3-1 608 use 3·1 514 Georgia 3·1 455 Mississippi Stale 3-1 406 Tennessee 2·2 364 Northwestern 4-1 312  
23  Oregon State 4-0 279  
24  Wisconsin 3·2 210  
25  NOTRE DAME 2·2 116  
ESPN/USA Today poll  
team rPcord points  
1  Nebraska 4·0 1,452  
2  Florida State 5-0 1,434  
3  Virginia Tech 4-0 1,334  
4  Kansas State 5-0 1,295  
5  Clemson 5-0 1,180  
6  Michigan 4·1 1,120  
7  Ohio State 4-0 1,119  
8  Miami (Fla.) 3·1 1,033  
9  Florida 4-1 886  
10  Texas 3-1 856  
11  Washington 3-1 734  
12  Oklahoma 4·0 713  
13  Auburn 5-0 697  
14  TCU 4-0 695  
15  Oregon 4-1 613  
16  USC 3-1 582  
17  UCLA 4·1 550  
18  So. Mississippi 3-1 531  
19  Georgia 3-1 455  
20  Mississippi State 3·1 355  
21  Tennessee 2-2 338  
22  Wisconsin 3·2 242  
23  Oregon State 4--0 171  
24  Northwestern 4-1 140  
25  Michigan State 3·1 136  
Top 10 in-state rivals collide 


Observer experts 
NOTRE DAME MIAMI GEOHGIA 
TEXAS 


Kerry Smith Season Record editor 
12-7 


Nonu•: DAME FLOHIDA ST. TENNESSEE TEXAS 
Season Record

Kathleen O'Brien associate editor 12-7 

NoTHE DAME 
FLORIDA ST. TENNESSEE TEXAS 
Season Record
Tim Casey 
assistant editor 11-8 
GAME OF THE WEEK 


ALLSPORT 

Florida State's Davy Ford (No. 22) fights off Maryland's Andrew Smith, Jr. (No. 23) and Randall Jones (No. 
12) during the Seminoles' 59-7 routing of the Terrapins Sept. 28. The Seminoles are 5-0 on the season. 
By PEYTON BERG Sports Writer 
Vinny Testaverde, Deion Sanders, Charlie Ward, Warren Sapp, Gino Toretta, Peter Warrick, and Wide Right I and II. The annual Seminoles­Hurricanes clash conjures up some of the biggest names and tightest moments in college foot­ball, not to mention guar­anteed National Championship implications. 
Miami used to be Florida State coach Bobby Bowden's nemesis. Too often in the last 15 years hr took his undefeated Seminoles into. this gamu, only to leave in bitter, nar­row defeat. The tables turned in the last four years, with Miami becom­ing a mere speed bump in the Seminoles' road to the title. 

Last season's spirited 31­21 Florida State win in Tallahassee may have sig­naled a renewal to one of the best rivalries in college football. The once-beaten 'Canes come into Saturday's contest feeling confident that they can not only play with their neigh­bors, but beat them. 
The talent at the skill 
positions in this game is scary. Miami boasts game­breakers Santana Moss at wide receiver and James Jackson at tailback. 
Florida State counters with Quan Bolden and Robert Morgan, two young­sters tasked with replacing 'Nole great and bargain shopper Peter Warrick. 
The defenses will set the tone early. Both are fast, strong, and ill-tempered. The Seminole defense has scored at least a safety in every game since last sea­son's Sugar Bowl. Jamal Reynolds and Roland Seymour carry on the line Seminole tradition of fierce 
OTHER TOP GAMES 

Tennessee at Georgia: The SEC East has been blown wide open. Last week, perennial powerhouse Florida lost a shocker to Mississippi State. LSU handfld Tennessee its second loss of the season, sev,erely crippling the Vols' chances to make the SEC Championship game in December. South Carolina beat the Bulldogs last month, and this unexpected divisional loss effectively put Georgia's backs against the wall. 
The VolunteP-rs are still struggling to reload after the 2000 NFL draft robbed them of 11. starters. QuPstions abound at quarterback. where Joey Mathews and 
A.J. Suggs have both seen action. Tailback Travis Henry is tho still the best running back you've never heard of this sidn of Julius Jones. 
Georgia's problems remain a mystery. Quarterback Quincy Cart<'r has all the tools, but hasn't found another offensive player to help shoulder the burden. Tailback Jasper Sanks has struggled to produce like former l>awgs llorschel Walker, Terrell Davis and Orlandis Gary before him. 
In short, this game is do or die for both programs. The winner keeps hopes alive, while the loser plans for next sea­son. 
Oklahoma vs. Texas (at Dallas, TX): The annual Red River Shootout is more intriguing this year because of Oklahoma's new look and newfound suc­cess. The Sooners were once "Wishbone U," where Barry Switzer coached skilled option quarterback Jamelle llolliway and Heisman winner Billy Sims. 
After four coaches in six years, Oklahoma hired former Florida oflen­sive coordinator Bob Stoops. The wish­bone has since gone the way of Brian Bosworth. ThB new Sooner passing attack. led by quarterback Josh Heupel, amassed 3,400 yards and ;30 touchdown passes last year en route to a 7-5 record. 
Graduation stripped the Sooner sec­ondary of three starters, a weakness that the Texas offense should exploit. Texas continues to shufTie quarterbacks, fre­quently substituting Major Appl1~white with ballyhooed prep star Chris Simms. 
Texas misses Hicky Williams. DPspitc impressive recruiting classes, head coach '.\fack Brown has failed to find a suitable successor at running back. This game hinges on which Longhorn team shows up: the team that handed Nebraska its only loss last year, or the team that lost to a clearly less-talPntPd Stanford Cardinal three weeks ago. 
pass rushers, while Dan Morgan and Damione 
Lewis  lead  the  Miami  
defense.  
Quarterback  Chris  

Weinke has been the for­gotten man this season, with most of the Ilcisman attention going to quarter­backs Michael Vick, Drew Brees and Eric Crouch. Most have overlooked his improved mobility, but his strongest assets are matu­rity and leadership. 
Look for the usual sus­pects (turnovers and spe­cial teams} to determine the outcome of what should be one of the more exciting games thus far. 
around· the dial 
Michigan at Purdue 
r r a.m.. ABC channel 58 
Florida State at Miami 
1 r a.m.. CIJS. channel 22 
Penn State at Minnesota 
noon, ESPN2 
Ohio State at Wisconsin 
2:30 p.m., ABC: channel 58 
Auburn at Mississippi State 
2:30 p.m., CBS, channel 12 
Pittsburgh at Syracuse 
3:30 p.m.. E'iPN2 
Tennessee at Georgia 
6 p.m., E"iPN 
South Carolina at Kentucky 
6:30 p.m. E'SPN2 

Friday, Ocrober 6, 2000 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 7 
quarterbacks: Stanford offensive line: Notre special teams: The Irish ­looks nearly as trou­Dame boasts more expe­are exceptional in this
the inside 

bled here as Notre rience, but has not come category behind Jones Dame. as the Cardinal through u•irh yards. and Setta. while the also lost its starter to Stanford's two All PAC-Cardinal is less than
edge 

an injury in mid­1 o players graduated. impressive. September. 



defensive line: Howard is coaching: While Davie's
records: 2-2 running backs: Notre 

I 
a likely All-American taken lots offlak, he's OverallA.P. rank: No. 25 Dame's rushing offensf EVEN u•ilh strong help from EVEN two mistakes away
coach's poll: NR has been nonexistent Not.re Dame needs
the other "Trench Dogs. " from being undefeated.
recently. The Irish need to avoid making an
Notre Dame's line is on Willingham led theJones to break loose. 
error in the clutch.

pace to set a school Cardinal to last year'sCarter is a solid hack 
records: 2-2 record for sacks. Rose Bowl. which has sent
for Stanford.
A.P. rank: NR 
them to defeat

coach's poll: NR linebackers: The Irish are 
against Nebraska

deep at linebacker. The 
and MSU. ff the

receivers: The Irish have Cardinal's Johnson is an intangibles: Notre Series Record players who can catch. impressive go-to guy. Dame's normally solid Irish can resolveEVEN They just need someone at home, but the dilem­their quarterback
Notre Dame: 
9-5-0 who can deli11er them ma al quarterback is a quandary, they'll beleads Stanford the ball. Pitts is among potential game-kUler.
secondary: Only one all but unbeatable.
Stanford's all-time top 

starter is back.for Unfortunately,
receivers. 

Stanford. Walton has 
that's a big 'if.'

surprised Irish fans, and Notre Dame's gotten sev­
.,,.

eral interceptions. 
IRISH INSIGHT 
Davie's hesitation to pick Lo Vecchio could hurt Irish 
With a black suit jacket cover­may prove to be a great choice. ing his face in an attempt to For now, though, Davie's avoid the media, Gary Godsey delayed decision can hurt this walked from the Notre Dame team. locker room towards the team Look at Godsey. The entire bus follow­spring and summer and earlier ing the this fall, he was the backup Irish's 27-quarterback. He was said to be 21 loss to much improved, smart and to Michigan have a firm grasp of the offense. State on Then came the Purdue game Sept. 25. where he was the hero, the "ex­But stand­tight end" who marched the Irish ing 6-feet-7 downfield to a dramatic last-sec­inches and ond victorv. A week later. he was being the the "reason the Irish lost." starting Now, he's relegated to the quarter-reserve role. Talk about an emo­back, tional roller coaster. Godsey Then there's Lovecchio, who could not has become the media darling escape the since the Michigan State game. herd. But that adoration can only last 
So, for about two minutes, he so long. Because until the quar­talked to reporters in a mild, terback carousel ends, there still monotone voice. Just before the has to remain some apprehen­session ended. some scribe sion. asked Godsey two questions. What ifLoVecchio throws an 
Reporter: "Were you disap­early interception and is pointed with your own perfor­replaced by Godsey, then resub­mance today?" mitted if Godsey struggles? 
Godsey: "Yeah." The switching could cause hes­Reporter: "Can you elaborate a itation, concern and loss of confi­
little bit?" dence among the candidates. Godsey: "No." Davie disagrees. Dumb questions, real respons­"I don't look at that in a nega­
es. tive way at all," Davie said last 
After completing 4-of-15 pass­week. "There's no one yet that es for 20 yards against the can be pulled. It's a competition Spartans and getting replaced in for who the best performer is. the third quarter by a freshman, Right now, I think it's a pretty Godsey's anger was appropriate. positive situation." 
Since that game, the talk of Mv amateur advice? Notre Dame Nation has centered Tell LoVecchio the job is his on the Irish offense, particularly the rest of the season. Give him the quarterback situation. the ultimate sense of assurance. 
What we know is that Unless he plays awful and dis­LoVecchio will start on Saturday rupts the team, there's no reason and Godsey may play as well to put false hope in any of the against the Cardinal. other signal callers. 
Why did it take more than a Two of the safest bets in South week for the final decision? Rend are Godsey switching to 
Because even though Davie tight end and one of the fresh­has alluded to changing the men quarterbacks transferring offensive scheme, diversifying by the winter of 2001 . the .Julius Jones juggernaut So don't continue saying the O'Learv and Jabari Holloway Except for Julius Jones, who an unexpected turn. 
(a.k.a. the Irish offense the last position is open for competition. lined up next to the tackles. · has emerged as the only option Seven regular-season games two games) and running more Right now, Lovecchio may be There's already enough trou­the last few weeks, the remain­remain against a favorable option. he waited until three only slightly better than the ble on offense. Losing breeds ing Irish skill position players schedule. The only future oppo­days before the game to name other three quarterbacks. But contempt. cannot be happy \\ith the pre­nent currently ranked above the starter. make him feel like he's the man, So does a unit ranked second­dictable attack. Notre Dame is USC. 
Hut any to\\nie \\ith a middle the leader of this potentially to-last in the nation in passing And even Jones may wonder Davie says it best. school degree could decipher the bowl-bound team. yards per game (98.5) and 106th why he's running between the "We've been in this situation "coach speak" into a reasonable That does not mean Godsev out of 114 teams in Division 1-A tackles on three-quarters of his for four weeks," Davie said on conclusion: LoVecchio, 10 should move to tight end and the in total yards per game (249.5). carries. Wednesday. "We have no excus­months after leading Bergen other freshman Oared Clark and O'Leary, Holloway. David No reason to add LoVecchio to es. It's time to go." Catholic High School to the New Carlyle Holiday) should be given Givens, Javin Hunter, Joey the mix. Jersey Parochial Group 4 state no snaps in practke. Backups Getherall, Jay Johnson. Tom For the last month, since The opinions expre.~sed in this title, would line up behind center are essential and an injury is Lopienski, Jason Murray, Mike Arnaz Battle made the "navicu­column are those ofthe author after the first Irish kickoff return. possible. And Godsey would McNair, Tony Fisher, Terrance lar bone" a household name, a and not necessarily those ofThe 
Having LoVecchio at the helm never see action with Dan Howard. once-promising season has taken Observer. 




r Page: 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 6, 2000 
-
.. 

STUDENT DISCOUNT Go NOTRE DAME! 
Ir----------------------------,I 
I I

:I 15% . OFF I See Your Manager for Details I

I ANYSERVICE 
I 1 Today, Tomorrow & Always! 1 I 
L----------------------------JAIR CONDITIONING • DIAGNOSTICS OIL CHANGES• FRONT END COOLING SYSTEMS • BATTERIES • BRAKES • EXHAUST SHOCKS • BELTS • WIPER BLADES • ACCESSORIES 

Late Night 

Dominator Special 2 Large
Special 

1 Large $8.99 1-Topping 
1 topping 1 16" One topping pizza 
$11.99 
$6.99 







