
25-year rivalry 
Louis Farrakhan and his rival, W. Dean Mohammed, mel Friday in hopes ofre con ciliatinn. 
News . page 7 

THE 
VOL XXXIII NO. 92 
Class Board Elections On-campus students: Vote in re.<;idence halls from l, a.m. to 1 p.m. and 5 to 7 p.m. Off-campus students: Vote in the c, parking lot from 11 a.m.to 5.30 p.m. 
Monday 
FEBRUARY 28, 
2000 

WHO WANTS TO BE A MILLIONAIRE? 

HTTP:!/OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Students compete for 'infotainment' awards 
By MICHAEL DE LA ROSA 
News Writer 
Weeks of hard work and sleepless nights paid off for Notre Dame design studr.nts when they returnr.d victorious Saturday from Kokomo, Ind. 
Delphi Automotive Systems and Delco Electronic Systflms sponsored a student competition hr.tween Notre Dame. Purdue University and ITT Technical Institute in which the students invented and designed a car product dealing with the field of "infotainment," a combination of information and entertainment. Professors Paul Down. Sheila Weist. John Caruso and their product design students represented the University. 
"I know we all had fun doing this. It's really an honor," Zack Fulton said upon receiving his award for aesthetics. "l haven't slept for days," he confessed after being teased about his haggard appearance by Caruso. 
Junior Dave Hunt shared Fulton's enthusiasm. 
"It was great. The whole thing was pretty cool," Ilunt said. 
Hunt received a technology award for his design of "a unit that goes in the backseat of a minivan or SUV. It produces a 3-D holographic image to play videos games and things like that." 
Sophomore Christopher Mahoney received an award for his interactive children's helmet."It is a way for children to be 
see AWARDS/page 4 
Snite celebrates Cuban culture 
By MARIBEL MOREY New~Wrirer 
Music, passion. politics and food are all depicted in the Snite's Cuban Arts Celebration this week. 
T 11 e s n i t e Snite Events M u -The Snite will 
s e um. 
celebrate Cuba's
t h e 
Kc I logg art history with 
Institute 
severa I events this
and thE1 
n e w week. 
Institute 
. Tuesday: "The f O r 
Buena Vista Social
Latino Studies Club," 7 p.m. 
a r r, 
. Wednesday:
working together poetry reading, t () 
4 p.m.
broadrn 
. Friday: lecture­
aware­
ne!:is of gallery talk. 
art in 
4 p.m.
t h i s 
week's 
celebration. 
''The Snite would like to celebrate ethnic diversities of world cultures on cam­pus," said Gina Costa. public relations and mar­keting specialist at the Snite. 
The Snite presents "A Celebration of Cuban Arts," a series of special events scheduled in con­junr.tion with the exhibi­tion currently on view called "Brcaki~g Barriers: Selections from the Museum of Art. Fort Lauderdale. Fla." The main goal of this Cuban Arts exhibit is to expose the campus to Cuban artists and to "give an awareness that there's this rich and textured cu1­ture," said Costa. 
The Celebration will 
open with a of "The B u e n a Vista Social Club" at 7 
p.m. on Tuesday at t h e Annenberg Auditor­ium. This will be the first time this movie about older C u b a n musicians will be shown in the area. 
This will be followed 
free showing 
"No where on campus focused 
his stud­
has anybody brought 
ies on this type of exhibition L a t i n 
yet. We hope to do these Amer ­
ican his­
types ofshows that 
torv and explore the history of cu 1·t u re. 
art -nnt just Western T h i s 
closing
European art. " 
e v e n t will fol­
Gina Costa low with a recep­
marketing specialist at 
tion in
The Snite 
by a poetry reading on Thursday at 4 p.rn. at the Exhibition Galleries, headed by Orlando Menes. son of Cuban parents and assis­tant English professor at the University of Dayton, Ohio. A reception will fol­low in the museum atrium. 
The lecture-gallery talk at 4 p.m. Friday is co­sponsored by the Institute for Latino Studies. Food 
will be served and Cuban music will flow throughout the museum. Rafael Tarrago, specialist in Latin and Iberian­American studies at the University of Minne-sota, will speak on Friday night at 4 p.m. 
Born in Holguin, Cuba, Tarrago fled to the United States when he was 14 years old a n d 
t h e 
museum 
atrium. 
This week's celebration is a great opportunity for students to learn and appreciate a different Caribbean culture, accord­ing to Costa. 
''No where on campus has anybody brought this type of exhibit yet," said Costa. "We hope to do these types of shows that explore the history of art 
not just Western European art." 
Saint Mary's elects new class boards 
By NICOLE 
Saint
HADDAD 
Election
News Writer 
Despite the 
Class of 2002 
controversy 
Katy Robinson (P)
regarding Erin Weldon (VP) Mary Kate Driscoll (T)
recent Saint 
Mandy Schomasec (5)
Mary's student 
(64%) 
Mary's
Results 
Erin Callahan (P) 
Lauren O'Neil (VP) 
Jennifer Wahlert (T) 
Katherine Deane (5) Abstained 
(34%) (2%) 
government 
:;Xtt:\ffl~Z:yt~'-'''.'-::{>'.~'. _-, 
elections, 
Class of 2003
voter turn-out 
Kristen Matha (P)
was relatively 
Kim Jensen (VP)
high for stu­Molly O'Shea (T) Kristie Maurer (S)
dent body offi­
(57%)
cer and 
&)1!t:M:::::i::,m:t~4~\:,::?iii%:i,:-¦
Diversity 
51% voter turnout 
Board elec­
Student Diversity Board 
tions. 
Akmarel Omarova(P) Katie Poynter (P) 
Jessica Delgado (VP) Julie Frischkorn (VP) Abstained 
(57%) (30%) (13%) 
With 51 per­cent of the freshman class voting. 

(P)President (VP)Vice-President (T)Treasurer (S)Secretary
Kristen Matha 
JC)SE C'UELLAR!Thc tlh-..:n•cr 
and Kim Jensen won positions as sophomore class president and vice president. along with their running mates secretary Molly O'Shea and treasurer Kristie Maurer. 
"We're really excited about the following year," O'Shea said. "We can't wait for everyone's input to make next year as enjoyable as possi­ble." 
The sophomore class also was enthusiastic in their sup­port for run-off candidates. With 52 percent of the class voting, president Katy 
52% voter turnout 
Stephanie Pace(P) 
Alison Joseph(VP) 
Megan Cavanaugh (T) 
Jenna Sousley (S) Abstained (37%) (6%) 
Hobinson, vice president Erin Weldon, treasurer Mary Kate Driscoll and secretary Mandy Shomasec defeated the Erin Callahan and Erin O'Neill ticket. 
"We're very excited about winning. and we had a lot of support," said Driscoll. "Next year will be a promising one and we have the means to fol­low through with our plans." 
Akmaral 0marova and Jessica Delgado will be the new representatives on Diversity Board. 

page 2 The Observa . INSIDE Monday, February 28, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Parenting our parents 
Last week presented an interesting sort of life lesson for me. We're all fairly young around here, and for the most part, so are our parents. Since I am the youngest of five kids, my folks may be a bit older than most. But ccrt.ainly at 58 my father has not yet joined the ranks of the ancient. That's why the events of the last week were so hard for me to handle. 
Aren't I the kid'? Haven't I always been the baby of the family? Thal's certainly what I'm used to! I couldn't get past this obstade of logic as I dressed and fed my father; made phone calls for him; conducted his business and ran the house. I've heard often f'nough of the disheartening role reversal that occurs as our parents age, but I was entirely unprepan~d for it. 
Mine is not a heart-wrenching story, really. Luckily, my fallrnr did nut suffer a stroke or other misfortune that would severely alter his capacities for the rest of his life. No, my dad was just a clutz and slipped on the ice, break­ing his lf'ft wrist (he's left handed) and sprain­ing his right wrist and shoulder. We can laugh about it, blaming the family dogs or lack of sunshine or poor quality of our shovel for the fall. The cast isn't permanent; though the doc­tors say some of the damage may be. 
For him. the injury has proven frustrating and terribly inconvenient. He can't use silver­ware, write, or even button his own pants. I guess we tend to take some things for granted. The situation was equally frustrating for me, but that's just because my dad is horribly stub­born. Rather than ask for my help with some­thing, he'd try it himself. fail, get flustered and yell at me for not offering help. In his anger, he would invariably manage to further injure him­self. 
All frustrations aside, though, these events honestly made me contemplate the future. What happens when our parents are no longer capable of caring for themselves on their own? I can't imagine stuffing my father away in some nursing home. But l know that l can't stop my life to sacrifice the amount of time and effort necessary to care for him. It was hard enough to take this last week off classes and work to help him temporarily. And even now as I sit here typing, I can't help but worry about him. 
So whose responsibility is it to care for our parents? My father seems pretty alone to me. He has no wife. His mother certainly isn't capa­ble of aiding him. His younger brother has already passed away. His sisters have their own families with which to concern them­selves. That leaves my siblings and myself. Four of the live kids in my family are still in college. Somehow I just don't think my dad can stay in my sister's dorm room during his con­valescence. My question remains unanswered. 
I've watched my dad struggle to care for his elderly mother and aunt over the years. Though I tend to label my pops a curmudgeon, it takes tremendous patience and genuine con­cern to handle gracefully what most would con­sider a burden. I could never do it. And for my father. I still wonder who will. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not neces.'>arily those of The Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Maureen Smithe Katie Wilhelm Kare Nagengast Graphics Lindsay Frank Jose Cuellar 
Sports Lab Tech Brian Kessler Ber~y Storey Viewpoint 
Amanda Greco 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is p11blished Monda)' rhrough foday except durmg ex.am and vacation periods. The Ob~crvcr is a member of rhc A.-.~ociart-d Prt"'.'IS-AJI ~producrion rights art' re\;crved. 
THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 
Monday Tuesday 

. 
Booktalk & Signing: Van . Forum: "l\lcCulture: Whitlield at Hammes Americanism vs. Cross Bookstore. ~C-{0 p.m. Culturnlism" at McKenna 

. 
Tour of Art Exhibit: Hall, 4:30 p.m. Selections from the Pt. . Bengal Bouts: Semi-finals Lauderdale Museum of Art of the student boxing com-at Snite Museum, petition at .Juyr,e Center 


4:30 p.m. Fieldhouse, 7:30 p.m. 
Wednesday Thursday 

. 
Concert: Stroke 9 and . Student Services Week: Vertical Horizon at Stepan Karoake at dining halls Center, 7 p.rn. Call 1-8128 from 5::10 p.m. -7:30 p.m. for tickets. . NAACP Relationship 

. 
Lecture: "Touched by the Forum: "Two Wrongs Don't Iloly" Doris Klein, C.S.A. at Make a Right, but it Makes LaFortune Ballroom, it Even" at LaFortune 7 p.m. Hallroom, 7 p.m. 


Compiled from If-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Demonstrators arrested at UCLA law school 
LOS ANGELES 

Sixtf'en protesters were arrested at the CCLA law school Thursday after taking over an office for more than five hours, demanding the dean address their concerns about increasing racial diversity. 
1-1ollowing a "Rally to Provent Resegregation" outside the law school that includP.d a kcynotr. address from State Assembly Speaker Antonio Villaraigosa, 16 protP.sters -mostly UCLA law stu­dents -in\'aded the records office shortly after 1 p.m. with a lawyer and negotiator present. 
Some from the audience followed the protesters into the building and crowded around the office chanting phrases such as "UC Regents, we see racists,"and giving speeches. 
One of the seven African American students admitted in 1997, the year 
"When I walk up the steps to 
this law school. this does not 
feel like afriendly place to 
me." 
Nancy Freeman UCLA. law student 
after Proposition 209 passed, tear­fully expressed her views to thP crowd. 
"When I walk up the stops to this law school, this does not feel like a friendly place to me." Nancy Freeman said. "Them are many oth­ers like me who cannot tell their story because UCLA will not let them through these doors." 
Dean Jonathan Varat, other uni­versity officials and several police officers enternd the office after the takeover to talk with the protestors. 

Varat said that he shared many of the goals of the protesters, but did not want to accept their demands under duress, some of which he said he was not authorized to do anyway. 
''The students and I and the farnlty all want to have more of these grouJJS heni," Varat told reporters before the protesters were arrested. 
The arrnsts came after the protest­ers refused to IP-ave whfln the build­ing closed al 5 p.m. They were takr,n to the university pulice station by l 0 officers in riot gear and chargr,d with a misdemeanor for failurn lo disperse. They were released aftf!r 7 p.m. 
"I think it wr,nt well. Obviously, students have a right to express their opinions," said UCPD Chief' of' Police Clarence Chapman. 
U. Arizona student avoids paper 
TUCSON, Ariz. 

University police arrested a University of Arizona stu­dent Monday after he falsely told police he was robbed at gunpoint in an attempt at extending the due date on a term paper. 
Peter Bernstein, 18, told police Sunday a Hispanic man held a gun to him and stoic his wallet near his res­idence hall. Bernstein then helped UAPD detective .Jose Sprigg form a composite sketch of the alleged suspect. 
But after a UA Grounds and Labor employee found Bernstein's wallet Monday with no contents missing in a garbage can near the residence hall, Sprigg became suspicious, and asked Bernstein if he was telling the truth, police reports stated. Bernstein then admitted to falsifying the report, Sprigg said. 
"Peter is not a bad kid," Sprigg said. "lie just made a mistake. We see a lot of abnormal activitv from stu­dents when they are under a lot of academic stress. We just wish they would cope with the strnss in a more pro­ductive matter." 
Bernstein was cited on suspicion of false reporting Monday morning after he spoke with Sprigg for a sec­ond time. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather®fnrecast for daytime conditions an<l high temperature!­
H  L  
Monday  ¢:  50  34  
Tuesd~y  ~  54  41  
Wednesday  ~  54  39  
Thursday,,  ~  53  36  
Friday ~...t ...,J"""·...  ,,  Q ' "" ' '  50  34  

4,Q,~8.Q.Q (f ~ u 
Snowers T-storms Rain Flurries S~ow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Assoc,afed' Press GraptiicsNel 
6-year-old aces Stanford classes 

STANFORD. Calif. 
It is not often that you will find a 6-year-old who spends his evenings writing essays about "The Iliad" and examining the subtleties of Newtonian mechanics. But then, Justin Chapman is not your average 6-year­old. 
Chapman, who was still in diapers when current Stanford freshmen were entering high school, has been taking college-level courses online through Stanford's Education Program for Gifted Youth for about a year. 
This month, he made headlines when he offir,ially enrolled in a class at the University of Rochester. becoming perhaps the youngest college student in histo­ry. 
"I love learning," Chapman said, "It just comes at a faster pace for me." 
Chapman, who lives in upstate New York, officially registered for a University of Rochester history course this semester. He has earned grades of "A" and "13" on all of' his assignments so far, including a paper about Babylonian creation myths and "The Iliad." 
Rochester administrators say Chapman is the type of student who comes along once in a lifetime. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather" forecast for noon, Monday, Feb. 28. 


Pre•surs: ® © D High Low Showers Via AJ!lOC!BISd Press  Q fhr,in  .. . D T-1torm1 FlurrlH Snow  .D lee  0 Sunny  ~~) Pl.Cloudy  Cloudy  
Albany Atlanta Baltimore Boston Chicago  44 70 49 54 51  28 44 33 37 40  Flushing Houston Los Angeles Memphis Milwaukee  43 75 60 66 45  29 58 53 45 36  New York Philadelphia St. Louis Tampa Wash DC  50 49 59 76 62  33 31 45 53 40  

Monday, February 28, 2000 711e Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Little Sibs Weekend boasts high attendance 
Ry MOLLY McVOY N,·ws \X'rirer 
Saint Mary's Little Sibs WP-c-ikcn<l proved successful with higlwr atti>ndancn than in rcr.rn t yrars. 
"I think a lot of proplc were excited about it, and a lot of prrnple had fun." said Kris A111H' Wilson. one of the event's coordinators. about "How the l.ittlP. Sibs 
best." said Karim Schaff, a frnshman whose 12-year-old brother joined her for the weekend. "ft was fun for Pvery­nnc involved." 
"Thr. pool party was well attended," Wilson said. "I think [the students and their sib­lings] lihd it bec.ause it was something new and different. It was something we had never done bef'orP." · 
The younger siblings also had 
the opportuni­
Stolii Saint ~lary':;."  "We liked the pool party  Lv to attend a c"arnival with  
Tlrn  sib­ the hest. It was Jun for  fare painting.  
lings arrived on Friday  eneryone involved. "  cotton candy and prizes. An  
and  wr.n1  autograph  
grnpted t h  by ,,  Karen Schaff freshman  session was scheduled as  
Undertonr.s.  well. but onlv  
an a cappella  one  of  th~  
group  from  athletes who  

Notrf1 Dame's GIN' Club. They had committrd, Ron Israel, perfornwd renditions of Peler actually participated. c;abrid's "In Your Eves," The llowever. the danc.e that Tokens "The Lion Slreps same evening gave the stu­Tonight" and Garth Brooks dents and siblings a chance to "Thf' RivPr." danre to thP music of thP 
1\f'tr.r the ronrert, many little Backstreet Boys and Brittany sibs headed to Carroll Spears until much past their Auditorium to watc.h Disney's bedtimes. "Inspec.tor Gadget" and eat "We've gotten lots of positive bf'dtime milk and c.ookies. responses from people," Wilson 
Saturday's pool party had the said. highest altcndancc of all the However. a few older siblings wePkend's activities and said a little something was inrludPd boxed lunc.hes. missing. llawaiian dernrations. and leis "Everything was very well !'or all of thf\ siblings and stu­planned," Sc.haff said. "I just dents to wear. wish them was a little more for 
"We liked thi, pool party the [siblings of! all ages." 
ND receives grant from NCM 
NYSP at Notre Dami'! is receive a free medical
Special to The Observer 
now entering its ninth year examination and a daily and has been cited by the USDA-approved hot meal. In
Notro Dame receivf'd a NCAA as one of the 25 most cooperation with Transpo,
$50,000 grant from the U.S. 
outstanding programs in the participants from South
Department of Health and nation. Bend and Mishawaka willHuman Services and the 
This year's activities will be bused to and from NotreNational Collegiate Athletic include athletic lraining in a Dame at no charge.
Association to rnnduct the 
variety of sports as well as Transportation nPeds forNational Youth Sports instruction on personal participants from otherProgram on campus this computers. information areas of Michiana will be
summer. 
about the dangers of alcohol coord inatPd separately.
On \\eekday afternoons 
and other drugs. advice on Now in its 32nd yearfrom June 26 to July 28, career and higher educa­nationwide, NYSP is fundedNYSP will offer athletic and 
tional opportunities and by some 200 participating
other enrichment activities wellness training with an colleges and universities,to Pconnmical!y disadvan­
emphasis on nutrition. and state, local and private
taged young people ages 10­
health and emotional devel­contributors, in addition to
16 in Michiana. Some 250­opment. the federal government and
300 young pPople are All partici.pants will the NCAA.
expected. 
Nobel Laureate to speak Friday 
slain children, to lead a voice to children who are
Special to The Observer demonstration of 10,000 drawn into wars and other 
women at the site of the forms of suffering. Lust month.
Betty Williams. Irish peace killings. Larger demonstra­she joinf!d the faculty of
activist and winner of the tions followed throughout Florida Atlantic Universitv,
1976 Nobel Peace Prize, will Northern Ireland and England. where she teaches in thegive a lertun~ entitled "Peao~ 
and Williams and Corrigan deparlments of Women's
in lhe New Millennium; 
eventually formed the Peace Studies and Peace Studies. 
Nurturing Children in a 
People Organization, an ecu­"To call the deaths of chil­Violent World" March 3 at 2 menical movement dedicated drrn accidPnts of war and to
p.m. in the auditorium of 
Lo ending sectarian fighting in get c.hildren caught up in warDe13artolo Hall. 
Northern Ireland. is not acceptable to me,"
A native of Belfast. Williams Corrigan still lives and Williams said recently. "Forwas living and working there works in Northern Ireland, but years, we've been guilty ofas a housewife in 1976 when 
Williams emigrated to the sending our sons to join
she saw three children killed United States in 1981. She armies, and we've been guiltybv a car whose driver, an IRA recently moved to Palm Beach. of thinking that our heroes
g~terrilla. had been shot 
Fla., where she directs an were men with guns. But forbehind the wheel by pursuing organization c.alled the World me, the hero is the guy whoBritish troops. Soon after the 
Centers of Compassion for worries whether his neighbor
incident, Williams, a Catholic. 
Children. The goal of the orga­down the street has a loaf of
joined Mairead Corrigan. a 
nization, she says, is to give a bread to eat." 
Protestant and the aunt of the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME'S 
LEADERS 
UPWARD BOUND PROJECT: 
Full-time college student or 
WANT TO GAIN SOME VOLUNTEER EXPERIENCE? 
graduate. Starting salary, 
INTERESTED IN TUTORING HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS? 
$32,000. Post offer mental and physical screening. 
IF SO. THEN YOU CAN VOLUNTEER WITH THE UPWARD BOUND PROGRAM AT NO. SUBJECTS TUTORED INCLUDE 
Marine Officer Programs 
ALG/TRIG. GEOMETRY. SCIENCE. HISTORY, ETC. 
Call toll free for an interview 1-877-299-9397 
TUTORING TAKES PLACE ON CAMPUS IN 20 l DBRT ON: 
www.MarineOfficer.com 
MON. 5-6:30 WED. 6-7:30 TUES. 5-6:30 THURS. 5-6:30 
PLEASE CONTACT THE UPWARD BOUND 
OFFICE AT 631-5669 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 28, 2000 
Awards 
continued from page 1 

entt>rtained in the barkseat of a car and not bother the parents in the front seat. The onlv wav it will work. though, is i(the kids arc wearing their seat belts." Mahoney said. 
Mahonev also said that he was surprised with his award. 
..I was a little shorknd because l am just an English major and most pflople then' wern industrial d,~sign majors," ht> said. 
Addition,d awards !'or at•stlrntics were given to Lori Mngler for lrnr r,hair aiming to rnrluco motion sick­ness and to Fulton for his verl1\bral overhead dashboard. 
l\otre Damn tierl with Purdue overall in the rnrnpr.tition. 
.vlaureen Smithe contributed to this report. 



OBSERVER 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Controller 
Applicant must be an accounting or finance major at Notre Dame or Saint Marv's. The Controller is rcsponsable for preparing The Observer's operating bud­get and taxes, accounts payable, cost­tracking and otber transaction duties. 
Please submit a personal statement to J\1ike Connolly, 024 s~uth Dining Halt by Thursday, March 2, 2000. For more infor­mation, contact Tim Lane (631-5313) or Brian Kessler (631-4543). 
I i 
I 
New book explores religious violence 
Special to The Observer 
The capacity of religious beliel' to inspire both pr.ace­fu l and violent social action among people of the same faith traditions is explored in a new book by Nolrn Dame his Lori an 11. Scott. Appleby. 
Published by Howman & Littlefield, "The Ambiv­ah'nc~~ ol' the Sacrf'd: Holigion, \'iolenec, and Hec:ondliation" was r:ommis­s i 011 <1 d by Lhf' Carnegie Commission on Preventing Deadly Conl1ict and emerged from a conforence cospon­sored by the commission and Notrn Dame's Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. The book's forward is by Father Theodore Ilesburgh, president emeri­tus of' Notre Dame and for morn than a half rentury a leading figure in worldwide efforts to reconcile interna­tional conflicts peacefully. 
Terrorists and pcacema.k­en, may grow up in the surne 
community. but Lhe killing carried out by one and the rnconciliation f'ost.Prnd by tlrn other indicatr, the range of dramatic and contradicto­ry rrsponsrs of bnliPvnrs to suffering and injustice. 
In "The Ambivalf•ncc of the Sacred," Appleby explorr.s what religiously motivatPd l<\rrorisls and religiously inspirnd pcacn­mak!1rs sharn in common and what prompts llrnm Lo radically opposiU\ paths in fight i11 g inj LIS tj C!1. JI f' a IS 0 nxaminns how a dceprr undorstanding or rnligious extn•mism can and must be integrated more c!'fectivcly into worldwide thinking about tribal. regional and intcrnutionul conf1ict. 
"Scott /\pplehy's book pro­vidns a tirnrly, rloar, and highly p,m:rptive trnatment of why and how rt>ligion has. especially since tho end of th<'\ Cold War, gravitated to the center of the discussion or international affairs ... " says David LiU!e, professor of the prartice in rnligion, elhnicity. and international conflict at llarvard Divinitv Sr,hool. "Them is no doub't that this volume will br the centr.rpiec11 henceforward of an important 1rnw disr.ussion on rnligion. violence, and reconciliation." 
Appleby, a professor of history and diredor or NotrP Dam,~•s Cushwa C.rnlrr for the Study or American Catholicism, is ono of' thn world's leading authorities on religious fundamon­talisms. Beginning in 1988, Appleby and \1artin Marty of the UnivtHsity of Chicago codirected The Fundamrn­talisrn Project, a major inter­disciplinary. cross-cultural study of' worldwide rnligious resurgence. 
Thfl project sponsored I 0 public ronfrrencr,s and Appleby and Marty coedited five scholarly books present­ing the findings of tho study. They receivP.d the American Academy of Hrligion's 1996 Award for Excellence in the Study of Religion for their work on thP project. 
A 1978 Notre Dame alum­nus, Appleby carnrd his master's and doctoral degrees from tho Univ11rsity of Chicago in 1979 and 1985. Aftrr chairing the rrli­gious studies departmPnt at St. Xavier College from 'I 982-87. he returned to Chicago as a research asso­cia tr. when he and Marty bl1gan work on The Fundamentalism Project. 
App]c\by's publications inrlude "Chun:h and Age 
Unit.cl;"  "The  Modflrnist  
Impulse  in  American  
Catholicism:"  "Hr,ligious  

Fu nrlam,1n ta! isms and Global Conl'lict" and "The Glory and tlrn Power: The Fundamentalist Challenge to the Modern World," which he wrotp, with Marty. 
Appleby writes and lec­tures frnqllfrntly on modern rrligions and oftt\n servAs as a consultant for journalists reporting religious n1!ws. Ile has been a member of the Notrr. Dame faculty sinre 1994 and also is a faculty f'rllow in the Kroc Institute. 



8pm in Lafortune Ballroom 

CKETS NOW AVAILABLE ~ 
At the Lafortune Info Desk, on sale TODAY until March 6. For only $2 you can enjoy this hilarious interactive murder mystery. 
~ 

www.nd.edu/-sub ~ 

•.· I :;.; 
'I'.•
.....•...·•.•.·..·.'.···•····.···•·.

orld 


Monday, February 28, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Ice strands 1,000 fishermen 
MOSCOW 

!\bout 1.000 icP-fishermf'n were stranded on dril'ting flons in Europn's largest lake Sundav as local villagers srt out in boats to rc•snH: thf'm. tlw news ag<•ncy lTAH-Tass n,port.Pd_ The report., riling the Hussian Ministrv of Enrnrgrmcy Situations, said a rcs­c111• lwiicoptrw w:is sent Lo th1~ sc!'ne at Lahe Ladoga, a (J,700-sq.-milc lake northeast of SL Prtersburg. Thrre were no immediate reports of' casualties. Ice-fishing is highly popular in llussia. Thousands ol' anglers biwome strand­ed on drif'ting llors 0vcry y,~ar. many of them t'.arrird out to sra bnforr bring rrscurd. 
Blind-folded girls drown in 
pond on Red Cross hike 
BANGKOK 

Six schoolgirls drowned af'tPr walking into a pond during a hikf' te,u·hrrs told them to makP blin<lfold1;d. Thai newspapers reportf\d Sunday. Thr rr.ports said thr. reason for blind­folding tlw f'hildrl'n was undrar. The girls, agrd 10-12. WPn' on a Hrd Cross youth train­ing outing whPn Lhr. accident or,rurred Friday afternoon in Singha Nakhnn distrir,t in the southern provinr,c of Songkhla. ar,cording to the Bangkok Post newspaper. Eight girls walkrd into thP 33-foot pond, although it was unr,kar from thr accounts if they were told to enter it. The Post reported that the girls pan­irked and onlv two made it out safely. Another rrnwspaper. :rh1, Nation. rnported that the girls' tearhers, who were not identified. were too afraid to jump in and rescue them. 
90-year-old grandma walks 3,100 miles for campaign reform 
BETHESDA.Md 

Nothing seems to slow the 90-year-old grand­mother who has trekked 3.100 miles through 12 stales in the name of r,ampaign finance reform: not arthritis, blistering desert heat or a foot of snow in Maryland. More than a year after Ooris Haddock set out for Washington from the West Coast to draw attention to her cause, the finish line is near. She plans to com­plete her walk with an entourage of supporters Tuesday from Arlington National Cemetery to the Capitol. Her message to politicians: The high cost of campaigns is giving wealthy special intcrrsts the only voice in Washington and it's shutting out the people. She wants soft money contributions outlawed and politicians who won't move toward r,ampaign finance reform rejected at the polls. "Sometimes I think it was a fool's errand. but I think there are more peo­ple in this country who know what campaign finance reform means since I started." said Haddock, who goes by "Granny D" on her Web site, u•ww.grannyd.com. 
liititi:ftiiM1Mr.1JI
Dow AMEx: 
943.54 JONES ---7 92 
Nasdaq:

-230.51 

~590.50 
-27.15 
N\'SE; 
5'76.42 
-7. l ~ 

Composite Volume: 
S&P 500: 
1333.36

9862.12 1.065,289.98.i
-20 07 
VOLUME LEADERS 

CON11\NY T!CKER 'It C'RANGf CHANG!: PII.ICi:
' 

OUC'Li: CO~P  ORCL  +U. o:,  +S .6825  70.62  
UJC!NT TECH  INC  I,U  +S. 57  +3.l250  59.25  
MICROSOFT CORP  MSFT  -3.. liJ  -:LUCO  !tl.31  
Ol::t.t COMPUTER  D~LL  -2:. 6'5  -1.1.250  41.25  
COtl!P~Q COMPUT!lt  CPQ  ... o, 2-'  ;-0. 0625  26 .oo  
INTBilSlL HOLDlN  ISIL  +lH.00  +29. 000  S.4..00  
CISCO SYSTEMS Hf'IE'Y.. COPl:f.l AMERICA ONt.INB INTUIT me  csco INTC AOL IHTU  -) '21;1 -o.as -0. t3 -19.0.2  -csooo -1.0000 -0.1800 -1J.75i5  lH.7!5 113.25 59 .,2 58.56  


In what was billed as a day of an ailing Cardinal John O'Connor,
Associated Press 

prayer, political leaders and activists told parishioners Diallo's death joined Sharpton in criticizing the ver­should cause people to "re-examine NEW YORK dicts as inappropriate for a case in our own tendencies toward violence,New demands for social justice, law which police fired 41 bullets and hit toward fear, and perhaps toward 
enforcement reforms and a federal 
the West African immigrant 19 times, prejudice-racial prejudice at that." 
inquiry echoed from pulpits and city only to discover afterward that he Citv Council Speaker Peter Vallone, streets on Sunday in the aftermath of was unarmed. speaking at Harlem's Bethel AME the acquittal of four police officers in The four officers. acquitted of sec-church, said that to make sure the shooting death of Amadou Diallo. 
ond-d egree murder and lesser Diallo's death was not in vain, the More than 1,000 people joined a charges by a jury in Albany on police department needed to continue 
peaceful prayer vigil outside the Friday, still face a departmental to make "fundamental. meaningful
United Nations, where activist Rev. Al inquiry and possibly federal charges change, so that people aren't afraid Sharpton hoped to bring the Diallo if Attorney General Janet Reno finds that the police are going to shoot case to international attention. 
evidence that Diallo's civil rights them." 
The shooting victim "could have 
were violated. Norman Siegel, executive director 
been one of these ambassadors,"' 
Sharpton's National Action of the New York Civil Liberties Union,said Sharpton, who also said he was Network is investigating what compa­told 200 parishioners at a "calling for another jury to hear evi­
nies contribute money to the Congregational church in Queensdence" on the policies of Mayor 
Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, that the Diallo case was giving new Rudolph Giuliani. 
which helped finance the defense of impetus to his group's proposals for "Come November, the jury is going the four officers in the case. police misconduct reform. 
to render its decision," he said, refer­Later this week. Sharpton will The key provisions of the reforms ring to Giuliani's probable run for the release names of the companies and would make federal and state fund­U.S. Senate against first lady Hillary will ask citizens to boycott the firms, ing for local police contingent uponRodham Clinton. 
said his spokeswoman, Rachel police meeting strict performanceSome in the crowd wore signs 
Noerdlinger. standards in community relations 
reading: "Go ahead and shoot. I'm 
At St. Patrick's Cathedral, Auxiliary and would name a permanent specialblack so it must be justified." 
Bishop James McCarthy, filling in for prosecutor to handle police brutality. 
Czechs consider Albright for president 
As,ociated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Madeleine Albright, America's CzPch-born ser­rctary of state, returns next week to her home­land. whern there is talk she might seek the presi­dency of the East European nation after her tour in Washington ends. 
Somf' Czer.hs ar(' speak­ing of her as a possible successor to President Vaclav Havel, who must retire in 2002. Havel, a playwright-turned -politi­cian helped lead the "Velvet Revolution" that in 1989 persuaded commu­nist rulers to resign. 

He has openly talked about the possibility or Albright succeeding him_ 
:Vlichael Zantovsky. for­mer Czech ambassador to Washington, said Sunday in Prague that he met last week with Havel and dis­cussed, among other things, the possibility that Albright might run to suc­ceed Havel. 
"I never made it a secret that I think that Madeleine Albright rould, one day in the future. play a big role in Czech politics," Zantovsky said. 
Ile stressed that the idea is not new and that it would not dominate Albright's agenda in the Czech Republic next week. 
In Prague, Havel's chief policy adviser. Pavel fischer, told Time maga­zine: "It is not impossible that thev will talk about 
this." • The secretary of state has not publicly discussed her future plans. ln its new issue, Time quoted uniden­titied sources as saying she "has begun to consider the possibility of running." However. Albright spokesman James Rubin dismissed the notion. "From time to time 
senior CzPch of'fir:ials have approached the secretary about this possibility. She has dismissed it although she is certainly flattered that Czechs would consider her for the post of presi­dent of her native land," Rubin said Sunday "She has never given this any serious r,onsideration ." 
Albright's March 5-8 visit coincides with the com­memoration of the 150th anniversary or the birth of national hero Tomas Masaryk, who served as the first president of the CzPchoslovak 11epublic after the collapse of Austria-Hungary in 1918. 

page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Monday, February 28, 2000 
Authorities probe death of Amish baby 
Associated Press 
DORNSIFE, Pa. 

The pathologist saw blood in the brain and hemorrhag­ing in one retina of the dead 4-month-old Amish girl, As a result, a coroner ruled the death homicide due to shak­en bahv syndrome. stunning this . tinv town and Pennsylvn:nia's scattered Amish communities. 
Days later, an expert on Amish illnesses said the rul­ing was wrong, that Sarah Lynn Glick died of a vitamin K deficiency and a rare liver disease. 
Two months later, authori­ties still are trying to unravel the truth. 
Whatever the eventual rul­ing. Sarah's death is one more example of the some­times blurred line between illness and child abuse. as when a rare disease mimics the bruising. bleeding or fractures of shaken baby syn­drome. 
Last year, Minnesota offi­cials took 1-year-old Wyatt Hines from his parents for three months after finding fractures in the bov's bones. His parents insisted he had osteogenesis imperfecta, or "brittle bone disease." a hard-to-diagnose disease that the Osteogenesis Imperfecta Foundation says may affect 20,000 to 50,000 people in this country. 
In another case. a newborn was taken from her parents in Denver in 1991 before doc­tors diagnosed her with glu­taric aciduria type 1, a liver disorder. In Nashville. an infant with the liver disease Alagille's syndrome was 
briefly sent to a foster home in 1993. 
Doctors are required by law to report suspicious cases to social workers. 
"If it's disease, the worst you have is an angry family. If it's abuse, the other kids are in deadly danger," said Dr. Randall Alexander of the Center for Child Abuse at Atlanta's Morehouse School of Medicine. 
In Sarah's case, the first to 
question the pathologist's conclusion of homicide was Or. Holmes Morton of the Clinic for Special Children in Strasburg. 
"When vou see a child that has blood in the brain, you must think child abuse, because unfortunately that happens in our r,ulture, but you must also think of other disorders that mimic: it," said Morton. He said he was angry that Sarah's parents remained under suspicion in the little girl's death. 
Dr. Michael Kenny. the pathologist at Geisinger Medical Center where she died, is expectPd to report on his review of the case next week, 
Neither Kenny nor Tony Rosini, Northumberland Countv's district attorney, returned calls for comment 
"We're on hold," said State Polio~ Cpl Carey Latsha. who oversaw the investigation. 
Sarah ·s parents, dairy farmers Liz and Samuel Glick, found her unconscious on Dec. 21. after the infant had been vomiting for days. She died two days later. Declaring it abuse, child ser­vices put the Glicks' other seven children in foster care until Feb. 17. 
"Liz is a very quiet, r,alm person." neighbor Lisa Williard said. "This really has boggled my mind." 
Morton explained that, ear­lier this century, doctors fre­quently saw babies with hem­orrhaging caused by vitamin K deficiencies. Today. babies get vitamin K in shots and baby formula, but Sarah, delivered by a midwife and then breast fed. got neither. Without it, her blood did not clot properly. 
Compounding Sarah's prob­lem was a genetic liver defect, Morton said. Even if she had been getting the vita­min, her body would not have been able to break it down. 
The illness is not widely known, but Morton still criti­cized the handling of Sarah's death. Reports of similar cases involving vitamin K deficiency have appeared in several medir,al iournals. 



Cops warn Mardi Gras tourists 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS 
After 360 tourists got bust­ed last year for exposing themselves during the Mardi Gras season, police arc warn­ing this year's crowd to keep their clothes on or face even more arrests. 
And as the holiday parades began, police warned hotel and restaurant owners that they will close down balconies if peoplA toss beads or other trinkets from them. The beads arc traditionally offered as rewards to people below for flashing llcsh. 
On Friday, the first big parade night kicking off Carnival, the 11 days leading up to Mardi Gras, police arrested three women and one man for exposing them­selves. 
Not everyone thinks a but­toned-down Mardi Gras is a good idea. 
"That's what Mardi Gras is all about -having fun and cuttin' up," said Handy Avara, a member of a crew installing cable for new street lights. 
It used to be that the exhibi­tionism was conf'ined to Carnival and Mardi Gras, with mostly drunk women baring their breasts to get strings of plastic beads in the French Quarter. But these days, just about any day will do, 
Annie Koenig of Salem, Ore .. and her husband, Bill, got an eyeful two weeks ago. "They were taking their tops off. The streets were packed. Guys were begging the girls." Koenig said, shaking her 
head. · 

Eleven people were arrest­ed that weekend for indecent 

exposure, said Lt. Marlon it is illegal.•· Delillo, a police spokesman, Violators can get six months 
The debauchery is getting in jail and a $1,000 fine, exposure far bpyond vacation though that is unlikely for albums, The Playboy Channel first-timers. plans shows from the French Polly Richter, who moved to Quarter this year. MTV's New Orleans in 1979, didn't "Real World" has come down see any reason to be upset by 
f  o  r  nudity  in  the  
Carnival,  Quarter.  
A n d m a n v Web sites  "You think they 're going to enforce it? It's going to  "Police have more impor­tant things to  
advertise p h o -tographs  be tough. They're outnumbered."  do," like arresting scam artists and  
a  n  d  thieves.  she  
videos of  Maria Perez  said.  "If  you  
women  New Orleans citizen  don't want to  

haring t h e i r breasts for beads, Some are f'or sale, others can be downloaded for free. 
Earlier this month, police took 1,000 placards around the French Quarter and asked mnrchants and businesses to display them before Mardi Gras, which falls on Marr,h 7 this year. 
"Uniform and plainclothes officers will be vigilant in the rrench Quarter and WILL TAKE the appropriate ac:tion if the law is violated .., just ask the 360 people who were arrested last year for lewd conduct," the placards say, 
Last year's arrests more than doubled the 163 obsceni­ty arrests during Carnival 1998. Defillo said, Of those arrested last year, 324 were out-of-state tourists, while the rest were mostly from other Louisiana towns, he said. 
"Many visitors believe it's legal to do this," he said. "Rather than go out and just start arresting, we want to make sure visitors know that see bare 
breasts and 
nudity. go to Metairie." 
Even in suburban Metairie, where the revelry is more family oriented, there's a crackdown, though not on bare flesh. Jefferson Parish Sheriff Harry Lee announced Thursday that his department will have four elevated sur­veillance cameras along the parade route to keep an eye out for illegal activity and fights. 
Last year, 25 people were arrested after a melee that 50 deputies quelled. The sheriff's department also got 17 com­plaints against the deputies, but Lee said an internal investigation did not find that any were valid. 
Maria Perez. who has three children and a fourth on the way, said the nudity of New Orleans is one reason she sticks to the parades in Metairie, 
"You think they're going to enforr,e it?" she asked. "It's going to be kind of tough. They're outnumbered." 

College of Arts and Letters University of Notre Dame 
Invites 

Nominations 
for 

the Father Sheedy Award 
Each year, the Sheedy Award, named for a former dean of the College of Arts and Letters, honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. 
Both students and faculty are invited to submit nominations for this year's award. Please send your letter indicating what is special or significant about this instructor to: 
Dian Murray, Associate Dean 101 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Wednesday, March l5t, 2000 
Sheedy Award 

Monday, February 28, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 

T-Shirt Contest! 

On ,-.,.arch 20, Student fiovernment '°"ill be sponsoring a St. Patrick's Day celebration. 
To help kickoff this celebration, there will be a t-shirt contest (similar to last year). 
Ifyou are interested, come up 'W'ith a design and turn it in to the student government offices located on the 2 nd floor of Lar=ortune. 
• Designs should be one-sided or two-sided with color. 
• Turn in designs by ;.,,./} 
,-..,.onday r=ebruary 28 before 5:P,_...._ 

Questions: Call Beth or Andrea at: 631-7668 Sponsored by St:udent: Ciovernment: "Bringing it: All Together" 
Farrakhan ai01s to unite Muslims 
Associ.itt:d Press 
C:IIICi\GO 

Nation or Islam leader Louis htrrnkhan was to givfl his annu­al Saviour's Day spnPch bl'i'ore thousands on Survfay in a closely wati'.lrnd PVP.nt that could make or brPak his flndgling vow lo rpc­oncilr with orthodox Muslims 
ltival W. 
I) n e n 1\:lolrn.mmPd. an nrt.horlox 
'Muslim loader and son ol' lat1o Nation of Islam head Hi.iah Muhammad. also planned Lo altrnd. 
W. llfrnn Mohammed has alrcadv made cll·ar what mil­lions ·or orthodox i\tuslims nationwidP nxp,wl: ··a tliffiirent Farrakhan." 
. Farrakhan joinr,d with W. l>r-Pn Mohamnwd at traditional prayers on rriday -the 25th anniversarv of' thP death of' l•:lijah Muhammad. whose legacy Farrakhan and \V. Deen \-lohanrnwd hav0. strugglf'd ov1'r. 
Elijah lPd tlw Nation of Islam for decades, but after his dc;ath in !(J7 5, his son lrd thr move­nwnl toward orthodoxy. In 1978, Farrakhan brnkP away to rnvive Elijah's tr,achings undPr thl' old Nation of' Islam name. 
In the Nation's thPology, Elijah's teachPr in the 1930s, W. 
D. Fard ol' Detroit, was given divinP status and Elijah was the final prophr,t to mankind. Orthodox Muslims beliPVP the final prophet was Mohammed of Mecra. who foundi>d Islam in the scvPnth century. 

At thr. pi-ayer service Friday, Farrakhan and W Oeen l\lohammcd bnlh vowed lo bury their cliffP-rcnr.cs and work together to unite U.S. Muslims. 
l\ati·on of Islam leaders, including Farrakhan's d1ief of staff. LPonard Muhammad. have insisted that the move toward unilkation is not new. 
In the past few years. Farrakhan has instituted the tra­ditional Friday prayers, obsorvPd bv millions of orthodox I\.Iuslims v\:orldwiclc, and the Nation of Islam also now observes Ramadan. a period of' [a.sting. 
Perhaps most important to orthodox Muslims, Leonard Muhammad savs that all Nation of Islam l'ollow~rs nmv adhere to the Muslim creed: "There is no God but Allah and Mohammed is his mPsstmger." 
That suggests Elijah wouldn't be regarded as the final prophet bv Nation of Islam members. F·arrakhan could elaborate on this in Sunday's speech More than 20,000 people were oxpcct­r;d to att1'nd. 
Lt\.\T('nco l\1amiva. a Vassa.r College expert· on black American religions, conserva­tivolv nstimates the core mem­bership of the Nation of Islam to be 50,000 to 100,000. He said W. Deen Mohammed's group, the Muslim American Society. has about 200,000 corn members. The overall following is thought to be much higher for both. 
W. Deen Mohammed. who plannf'cd to give short nmiarks at Sunday's gathering, said he would carefullv monitor Farrakhan's words"_ in part lis­lening to make sure he avoids anti-white and anti-Semitic com­

mPnts. 

One Nation of' Islam observer said he belicvP.s the fl6-year-old Farrakhan will continue with the calls for rar.ial and religious unity he has made since his "near death experience" last year while being treated for prostate cancer. 
"]!e's thinking about his lega­cy, and I don't think he wants to leave with the idea that ho was a hate monger," said Salim Muwakkil, a former Nation of Islam member who is now editor of the Chicago-based politic.al journal In These Times. 
"The illness pro,·ided him with a very good excuse to be more forthright in his alterations ol' the doctrine," Muwakkil said. "Bcl'o1·0, he had to do it incre­mentally. as if hP wore taking baby steps." 
Also scheduled to speak Sunday was Rabbi David Weiss, a leader of the Neturei Karta International orthodox Jewish community. Farrakhan met with leaders of the group last fall in a move that he said was proof of his wish to reconcile not only with Muslims but also with Jews. 
But Jewish loaders, still seclhing over Farrakhan's past comments -including calling Judaism a "gutter religion" ­remained cautious. 
Chicago Rabbi Ira Youdovin said the Neturei Karta was an "extreme. extreme ultra ortho­dox wing of the Jewish commu­nity" that opposes the current existence of the state of Israel. 
U.S. recalls defective wartime suits 
Associated P rcss 
WASHINGTON The Pentagon has alerted 
U.S. facilities around the world that hundrnds of thousands of protective suits meant to shield Gls from gas and germ attar:k may have holes and other crit­ical defects. according to mili­tary ofTicials and dor:uments. 
The Pentagon learned about the flaws five years ago bul did not consider the problems r:ru­cial and needed the gear for 
U.S. peacekeeping troops in Bosnia. rriminal investigators say. l'\ot until late last yi~ar did a second study on the same suits judge identical flaws grave enough to warrant a global warning, the investiga­tors said in an interyiew. 
On Feb. 9, the Pentagon cau­tioned r:ommanders not to use any of the 778,000 suits except in training. The suiL'l, not all of which are defer:tive, rost the government .1lmost $49 mil­lion. 
Thr defects included "cuts, holes, embedded foreign mat­ter and stitching irregulari­ties,·· the Pentagon inspector general said in a report being released this week. The defects potentially could kill people wearing the trousers and jackets in a "chemical-bio­logical contaminated environ­ment," the report said. 
A bankrupt New York City­based company, which the inspector general identified as lstratex, produced the char­r:oal-lined camouflage suits under two contracts dating from 1989. Soldiers wear the suits over their regular camou­flage gear where chemical or biologir:al weapons might br, used. It was unclear whether any of the suil'l were worn by troops in the 1990-91 Desert Shield-Desert Storm operation, when Iraqi chemical attack was considr,red likely. 
Last May, the Justice Department indicted various r.ompany offir.ials on rharges including conspiracy to defraud the Pentagon, major fraud and making false claims. They all later pleaded guilty to lessor charges. 
In September 1999, Istratex's president and pro­duct.ion manager each pleaded guilty in U.S. District Court in New York to one count of mak­ing false statnments. Two other company officials plead­ed guilty to making false cer­tificate or writing and a fifth official pleaded guilty to obstruction of' justicP. Sentencings are expected in the spring. 
Pentagon r:riminal investiga­tors said they pointed out to the Defense Logistics Agency, which manages inventories, problems with some of the "battle-dress overgarments" in 
1995. 
In 1996, the agency's tPsters, at the investigators' request, studied 500 of the suits and found defects in 174, officials said. 

page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, February 28, 2000 
Student Services Week 

February 28 -March 3 
MONDAY: Free Bagels and Coffee/Hot Chocolate 9:AM • 11 :AM Outside DeBartolo 
TUESDAY: Academic Lunches Kickoff Free Pizza/Subs 12:PM-1 :30PM Lafortune Ballroom 
WEDNESDAY: Free Give Away Men's Basketball Notre Dame v. Syracuse 

9:PM JACC 
THURSDAY: Karoake at Dining Halls 5:30PM-7:30PM 
Prayer Service at Grotto 
FRIDAY: Time Capsule Ceremony 12:PM Lafortune 8:00PM 
Questions: Call Beth or Andrea at 631-7668 Sponsored by Student Government "Bringing it All Together'' 
JJriughlgit 

Monday, February 28, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
MOZAMBIQUE 
Unexpected floods strand hundreds in southeast Africa 
!ages in Mozambique's already how many people already have last wock. As the remnants of Farther south, the five South
A,sociatcd Pres; 
flooded Gaza province in a been swept away in the vast the cyclonB rnred bark to the African hf'licopters in the matter of hours. areu. along the bu.nks of the Indian Ocean. a new storm Limpopo area saved 1,200SAVE RIVER VAi.LEY 
"These people went to hed Save (pronounced sah-VEY) in system was developing off the people before stopping for the
llelicoptcrs plucked more 
last night with no sign of central Mozambique. roast of Mozambique and was evening, said Maj. Louis
than l .500 people lo safety 
water," Michele Quintaglie of "There's massive destruclion expected to Kirsten of
Sunday as swollen rivP-rs 
the World Food Program said along tht> Save River. It's tak­hit Monday. the Southswept away almost everyLhing 
"There's massive
of Chokwo residents. "At 5 ing everything in its path -In the Save African
in their paths in flood-ravaged 
a.m.. they woke up by hysteri­homes, villages. There are valley, South destruction along the force. The
Mozambique. 
cal screams telling them to get people stranded in trees and African heli­helicopters
!\ new storm system began Save Rive,: It:s taking
out. By early morning, the city on homes. A lot of people are copters hoist­w o u I d
building off thP roast Sunday. everything in its
w a s getting killed," said David ed people r e t u r n
Many more 
engulfed by Schaad, a World Food aboard and path -homes, villages. Monday, he
p,~oplc 
grippPd what­"These people went to water. By Program spokesman. dropped them There are people said. lunch, it was UNICEF's Ian Macleod esti­a short dis­The South 
r. vcr high bed last night with no stranded in trees and on
completely mated betworn 5,000 and tance away on African and
ground they 
sign c~f water. At 5 a.m., submerged." 10,000 people were stranded slightly bigger homes. ,.1 lot ofpeople are Mozambican
could find as 
they woke up to Groups of in the area. rai.sed patches governments
waters con­getting killed." 
people hud­About 3.000 more were of earth. With were wran­
tinued to rise hysterical screams 
dled on tiny marooned in southern the nearest gling Sunday
in thr, Save 
telling them to _qet out. 

patches of Mozambique after the refueling David Schaad about who
and Limpopo 
By early morning, the I a n d Limpopo burst its banks. point 125 World Food Program spokesman would payrivnrs of this 
stretr.hcd The known death toll in miles away. f o r
southeast city was engulfed by 
out their Mozambiqtw and neighbnring rescues were advanced
Afrir.an r.oun­water. By bmrh, 
arms to South Africa and Zimbabwe going painfully slowly. plans to send five more heli­trv, one of the 
it was complet.ely plPad for reached 200 from flooding in Journalists who flew I 0 copters and two planes. said
p,;orest in the help from the last week. Police said miles up tho river mouth saw Lt. Col. Jaco Klopper, com­
world. They submerged." 
one of only Sunday that at least 33 people up to 1,000 marooned people. mander of the South African
have been 
two resrue died and 20 were missing after One heliroptt>r hoisted a rPsr.ue efforts. 
stranded for a 
Michele Quintaglie helicopters a bus was swept off a flooded woman and her baby aboard Pilots were focusing on sav­
week and 
World Food Program spokesman in the Save bridge two days earlier in from the remains of a hut. ing the children first and often
d!-1speratcly 
arf'a. A lone northeastern Zimbabwe. Pigs, goats and cattlR waded had to push away desperate
nef\d rood. 
man on the Twenty passengers had sur­through the muddy 1,vatcr. people trying to get on the
Without 
roof of a vived. Pilot Chippy Pretorius said fully loaded helicopters, said
warning. the level of the 
straw hut pointed his fingers Torrcn ti al rrrins began he had rescued 320 people, Quintaglie.
Limpopo Hivr.r rose rapidly to his mouth and rubbed his drenching southern Africa and had seen one human body "It's a very dangerous situa­
early Sunday morning. sub­
stomach. three weeks ago, and then and many dead animals in the tion right now because peoplemerging the town of Chokwe 
Offirials refused to speculate Cyr.lone Eline roared through water. are panicking," she said.
and dozens of surrounding vii-
JU .NIOR CLASS ICE SKATING 


page 10 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, Febraury 28, 2000 
PUERTO RICO 
Puerto Ricans vote for GOP hopefuls 

Associated Press 
SAN JCAJ\ 

Tlrnv r.an't vote in presiden­tial elections. They have no rnte in Congress. But in Sunday's Republican Party primary. the people of Puerto Rico exercised a rarr. chance to be heard on the national stage. 
Wielding 14 delegates -the same number as Maine, Rhode Island and Hawaii. and more than Vermont or Oelaware ­they chose between George W. Bush and John McCain in a pri­mary seen as a test of populari­ty among Hispanic voters and a chance to gather impor­
tan l mornPn­
"Bush is the candidate 

would likelytum. that I like and who can send mostly
But the Democrats to

vote's rela­brin,q statehood to 
Congress.

tively low pro­
Puerto Rico." 
"Bush is lhcfile -no can­candidate that

did ate visits. 
no CNI\ exit Dinora Perez I like and who can bring
prJlls Puerto Rican citizen 
underscored Amerira's ambivalent relationship with its Caribbean territory of 4 million Spanish speakers. U.S. citizens all. 
"I was hoping to be able to carry [Puerto Rico] without going down." Bush told The San Juan Star newspaper. whir,h endorsed him Saturday, joining the local party's strongly pro­Bush establishment. 
The vote. which began at 8 a.m., was open to all 2.3 million registered voters -including Democrats -and results were expected Sunday night. 
Michael Govan. an adviser to the Bush campaign here, said a r,onvinr,ing victory should undersr,ore the Spanish-speak­ing governor's ability to attract mainland Hispanics as well. 
On Saturday Bush swept all 12 delegates chosen at caucus­es in three other U.S. island ter­ritories -the nearby Virgin Islands and Guam and American Samoa in the Pacific -giving him 79 delegates com­pared to 96 for Mr,Cain; 1.034 are needed for the Republican nomination. 
As in most elections here, vot­
ers said lhe most important issue was candidates· view on Puerto Hico·s unusual status. Under the commonwealth, Puerto Hicans pay no federal taxes, but receive billions in federal funds; they serve in the 
U.S military, but other than the party primarins, they cannot vote for president. 
The local Republiran Party overwhelmingly favors U.S. statehood, but is frustrated with the Republican Congress because of its failure to pass a 1998 bill that would have made that possible. Bush -like his father -is a strong supporter 
of statehood for the island, even though it 
statehood to 
Puerto Hico." 
said Dinora Perez. 64. as she cast her vote in San Juan. 
Nancy Nunez, 34, praised McCain as "a militarv man [who! knows how to make deci­sions." 
The vote comes at a low point in relations between Puerto Ricans and the Hcpublican Partv. for reasons bevond its cool~ess to statehood. · 
Many islanders resent Congress' decision in 1996 to eliminatr special tax breaks that helped Puerto Hico climb out of devastating poverty over the last four decades. 
Islanders are also annoyrd at Hepublican opposition to their demands that the U.S. Navv close a bombing range on the island of Vieques. The push to expel the Navy has generatr.d a rare r.onsensus among the island's politiral leaders. 
Islanders are fearful that a future Hcpublican president might overrule President Clinton's January directive ­reached after months of negoti­ations -under which the Navy must leave by 2002. 

SENEGAL 
Contentious elections test Dakar 
Associated Press 
D,\KA!l 
Under r.ool and irnnny skies, Senegal's p,tupers and millionaires voted in a prcsi­dentia l election S11ndav as rebel attacks and political unrest threatened one of Africa's fow enduring democracies. 
The contest pitting President Abdou Diouf' against seven rlmllengers is thr. country's most con­tentious in dncades after 40 years of rule by tho Socialist Party. Hr,sults wernn't expected until at least Tuesday. 
If Sr,negal plunges into violence so soon after tho Dflcember military takeover in nearby Ivory Coast ­another lradilional bastion of African stability ­Western diplomats worry it could Lrigger a flighl of developmflnt aid and trade away from the continent. 
Them have befln sporadic street clashes in the past week, with at least ono brawl bctwefln ruling party and opposition supporters in the rnpital's Biscuiterir, nflighborhood during the voting. 
Hebels fighting for inde­pendence in the Casarnance region launched at lflast two attacks Sunday, including a rocket assault on the town of Niayassa. 1war the south­ern border with Cuinea­Bissau, radio stations reported. Government sol­diers fought bar.k with light weaponry. 
Several peoplf1 were injured, the private Wal Fadjri FM station said. Calm had been restored by mid­day, though voting was callfld off al a balloting sta­tion whflre some of the fighting took place. 
At least onf\ soldier was 
killed in the second attack, 
near the town of Kolda, 
about 420 miles southeast of 
Dakar. another independent 
station. Sud FM, reported. 
The rebel Movement of 
Democratic Forces of 
Casamance was not immedi­

AP 

ately available for r,ommcnt. Hebel officials have denied responsibility for two attacks earlier in the week that left at lflast six people dead and 20 European tourists wound<id. 
While many Afrir.an coun­tries hold elections, very few arf' considered truly frflf' and fair. In West Africa, wlrnre votes of'ten take place against the backdrop of mil­itary coups and civil wars. Senegal is one of' the fow countries to offer its 10 mil­lion citizens and 2.7 million registered voters regular ballots with a choice betwflen numerous parties. 
Opposition randidatr.s, however, accuse Diouf of' rigging previous votes and allowing massive corrup­tion. 
All eight prnsidential aspi­rants, including Diouf. were offoring-voters a better life for all. Only four am Sf\Cn as serious rontendflrs. If an outright winnflr fails to emerge, the top contendflrs will square off in a second round. 
In a country of stark con­trasts, opposition candidates have made "Sopi!" "Change!" in Wolof -their battle cry. 
While the rountry boasts world class musir and fash­ion, as well as slick million­aire entrepreneurs. there are few natural riches. 
The ma,iority remain des­perately poor, eking out a living by fishing in severely depleted ocean waters. growing peanuts on arid farms or begging along the beaches where European and American tourists come for cheap holidays. 
Six out of lO Senegalese are illiterate. Hospitals have no medicines. And dusty trar.ks serve as national highways. 
"I want change, and l llew thousands of miles back here for it." said Moammar Sow. a Senegalese nativA who has worked for the past eight years as a New York taxi driver. "rorty years in power is too long for any government." 
Ahdoul.aye Wade, Diouf"s longtime rival who was briefly imprisoned in 1993 in connection with the killing of an electoral offi­cial, has warned the country will f)Xplode in popular revolt if the president retains power. 
Despite the rears, voting proceeded without incident in most parts of Dakar. even though some stations opened late and others lacked sufficient election materials. 
Women in bright wrap­around gowns and Muslim clerics clutching prayer beads cast their ballots alongsidfl Roman Catholic nuns and young men wear­ing flXpensive sports gear and designer sunglasses. Thrnadbare peasants stood side by side with wealthy businessmen in European­tailored suits. 
Diouf' cast his ballot in the city center. surrounded by wildly chHering rrowds who jammed into a hall to see him. Displaying little emo­tion, he called on the Senegalese to "do their dutv" and vote. 
Retired telegraph operator Gabriel Cilia said he was voting to give the president anothAr seven-vear term because his government has managed to pay its employ­ees regularly -unlike many bankrupt African govern­ments. 
"We have to give thanks for what we have," Cilia said. 

HQ""" dQ V Q U \If you work hard but don't 
• ./,.. I earn a high income, EITC 
qU ahfy fOri e>nm~n yoo'll P'Y "''t.x,
the lno tax or even get a refund. I You may be eligible if you
Ear n ed

i have two qualifying children InCOme TaXi and earnings under $30,580
Credit? ; ::,::·:,d.:.:::n::·:~;:! 
I 526,928. Or no child and earnings under S10,200. 
To get all the facts, call 1-800-829-3676 for IRS Pub. 596, Earned Income Credit. IRS Web site: www.irs.gov 
THE NOTRE DAME CENTER 
for 

ETHICS AND CULTURE 

High blood pressure f<'clr:; like 1u,JI1i11g, ,r all 
SAME GOES. 
fOR THE 
CON ~r aUFNCFS. 
..___
-hi111-­
lnll~-no-,lt 
U..;""'9Ulr>gyo<Mriokot noo.rt.-Uld-. l'W1whyyoulhouldllit 'f""X-IOmod<yo,r --andh4>1>you 
-It. L-,mo,o,; 
'MriW.amar1ClrlhNrt.org or 
a!l 1-800-AHA-USA1. 
America Heart A 
Auodarlon••
,,....~ti.----..... 


cordially invites the faculty, administration, and staff to a reception celebrating the inauguration of tl1e Center. Please join us on the tentl1 floor of Flanner Hall Monday, February 28th 
4:30-6:30 P.M. 
Monday, February 28, 2000 The Ob;erver . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page I I 
ISRAEL 
French PM puzzles Israelis, Arabs 
Associated Press 
BIH ZEfT, West Bank 
The reactions were predictable: Israrlis praised Franre's prime minister for calling their enemies "terrorists," while Arabs said Lion<'! Jospin should h;wr known better. 
Less pre<lictitbl1~ -fur both sides -was Jospin's apparnnl break with a derndcs-old Frnnch Mideast policy that carefully rnurtnd the .\rah world. 
Jospin bPat a hasty retreat from the Palostinian arnas on Saturday aftrr students rioted during his visit at Rir Zeit Universitv in the West Bank. lie suffered ·a slight head wound. 
Jospin 's description or attacks by the Iranian-backed llezbollah guerrillas against lsradi soldiers in south Li>banon as "terrorist" activity sparked anger throughout the .'\rab world. 
".lospin's stat<rnwnts contradict French poliry announced by l'residf'nt Jacques Chirar. and rannot possibly serve Arab­French relations." said the oflkial Tishrin newspaper in Syria, the main power broker in Lebanon. 
Chirac. a conservative. repri­manded Jospin. a soc:ialist. when he returned to Paris Saturday night. reminding him of Franr.e's delicate "equilibrium" in its sup­port of' Israel and the Arab world. 
Chirar,'s vie,vs are r.onsistent with French forr.ign policy dating back to 1967. when President Charlr.s dr. Gaulle sharply reversed what had been a decid­r.dly pro-Israel policy. because it 
RUSSIA 
Chechnya suffers oil well damages 
had incrrasingly hampered France's extensive Arab trade and military ties. 
Jospin was careful not to break entirely with that tradition, sounding traditional Frnnch posi­tions that would not havo appealed to his Israeli hosts: an end to strikes at civilian targets in on Chirac and the Frenrh people to "punish this premier for his mi.stake," according to comments carried Sunday by l-lczbollah's al­Noor radio station. 

l\.assem said Jospin was not wclcome in Lebanon, where a 3,000-person protest in the port city of Sidon. planned to mark the 
Leb,rnon, sup­por1 for Palestinian statehood. and an end to Jewish settle­ment in th() West Ifank. 
France is Lebanon's for­mer r.olonial ruler and Paris has long sup­ported Beirut in its endeavors to get Israeli forces to with­
''Hopes ofreaching the Elysee Palace may be the reason for such statements, but such statements are not in line with the French tradition." 
editorial in Al Quds Palestinian daily paper 

annivprsary of the killing of a local leader, turned in to an anti-Jospin demonstration. 
About 40 Palestinian stu­dents gathered outside Palestinian Authority headquarters in Ramallah on Sunday to protest the arrest of 20 
draw from an occupied border zone in southern Lebanon., 
LPbanese lraders also expressed dismay and summoned the French ambassador to com­plain. 
Israel has pledged to pull out by July. but violence in the south ­apparently exacerbated by last month's breakdown in peace talks with Syria -has flared in recent weeks. 
Hezbollah has killed seven Israeli troops, and Israeli airstrikes have crippled Lebanese infrastrurture targets and injured 20 civilians. 
Sheik Nairn Kassem, Hezbollah ·s deputy chief, called students in the rioting a day earli­er. "Jospin said Arab blood was worthloss. did you exped a bed of roses?" one banner read. 

Most Palestinians condemned the rioters -who reached Jospin's Mercedes limousine and smashed its windshield before his entourage got away -but said Jospin was out of line. Some sug­gested he was grandstanding, with his eye on French presiden­tial elections in 2002. 
"Hopes of reaching the Elysee Palace may be the reason for such statements, but such state­ments are not in line with the French tradition," editorialized the Palestinian daily, "Al Quds." 
Associa red Pre"' 
URUS-MARTAN 

Huge pillars of greasy black smoke rise into the Chechen sky, towering over people who trudge past long­u nco llec ted trash and fear drinking the water. After six months of war. Chechnya suffers environmental dam­age that makes it barely rnc­ognizable to its residents. 
Chnchnya's environment was devastated in a 1994-96 war with Russia. and its soil, air and waterways still hadn't rPcovered when fight­ing resumed last fall. In some places, it is bare of all foliage -cut down by rnsi­dents desperate for wood to heat their homes. 
In the southwestern city of Urus-Martan. residents say the sewage system stopped working long ago. and peo­ple who fled here to escape fighting between Russian forces and rebels elsewhere in the republic tell of land tainted by oil from destroyed wells and littered with ani­mal cadavers. 
Snow sometimes falls in black nakes and a slick oil grime that covers streets and homes can be tasted in food and water, they say. 
"You wake up in the morn­ing and if you breathe too deeply, you start coughing, said Asya Azimova, who recently flr.d the village of Oktyabrskoye. "You drink the water and it feels like you're swallowing a rock." 
"You live in a place all your life and you leave for a few months. When you return. you can't recognize it bemuse all the trees have been cut down," said Shakhid Arsamerzavev, a 32-year-old refugee from the town of Alkhan-Kala. 
Most damage has come from Chechnya's oil wells, many of which have been blasted by Hussian war­planes. Refugees say scores of wells have been burning out of control for months. often turning the daytime sky black. 
One of the most damaged areas in the mountainous republic is the capital, Grozny, which is surrounded by oil refineries and was the target of massive Russian airstrikes for months. More than 2 million tons of crude oil has leaked from the refineries, Gen. Boris Alexeyev, director of envi­ronmental safetv for the Russian military, said recently. 
"The oil pollution is a colossal problem." said Alexei Yablokov, a promi­nent Russian environmental­ist. 
Please, come back me. ---Visi-t Jesus 1n Eucharis-tic Adora-tion_ Monday 11 :30 p.m. to Tuesday 1 O:OOpm in Fisher Hall Friday 12:00pm-5:00pm, Lady Chapel, Basilica Eucharistic Adoration is sponsored by Campus Ministry. for more information or to sign up for a permanent half-hour or hour slot.  


VIEWPOINT 
page 12 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Norr, D•m<. IN 465% 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Norrc D,me. IN 465% 
[OITOR IN CHIEF 1-.liLhdk Krupa 
M.>.N.~GU,G EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGI:R ,vi. Shannon Rvan David Rogero 

Assr. MANAGl1'G EDITOR Laura Petri le 
NE\X'S EDITOR: Tim LQgC\n VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EmroR: Brian Kessler 
SCEtiE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MAR¥'5 EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalurn 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lmz 

AD UES!GN MANAGER: Bret Huelat SYSTE\IS AD\ll~ISTRATOR: "1ichad Revers WEil AllMINISf!iATOR: faik Kushto 
COKTROLI.ER: Timothy Line GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INf0..............631-7471 FA.x... .. .. ... .. .. ... .. ....631-6927 
AoYERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwm.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.......••......•.................•..•...631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AsST. ME ................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE..............................•........631-5313 
NEWS....................................................•.....631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SroRTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE........................ ·································631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 

SAINT MARY'S............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS...... ..........63 I -8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:!lobserver. nd edu for daily updates ofcampus news, spom, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly studmt reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for s pe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published afcer 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staif 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements base,l on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editocs. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available IO all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to rhe Editor must be signed and must include comacr informarion. 
Quest,or,; regardmg Oh,erver policies ,hould be direct­ed ro Ed1tor in ChiefMichelle Kn,pa. 
DILBERT 
O
THE 
BSERVER 
Monday, February 28, 2000 


CHARLOTTESVILLE, Virginia 
It is a universally acknowledged truth: College students drink. Too much. It's no wonder, then, that U.S. col­
leges spend an enormous amount 

Katie Dodd 
of time each year on alcohol aware­

ness programs. Yet. when it The Cavalier comes to alcohol­Daily related tragedies, some officials clearly would rather the public -even 
the students -remain unaware. 

Last week, Duke University officials acknowledged that the Nov. 27 death of junior Raheem Bath was directly relat­ed to alcohol consumption. The admin­istration originally told students that Bath had died of bacterial pneumonia but neglected to mention that the infec­tion resulted from aspiration -inhala­tion of a liquid, in this case his own vomit -after a night of heavy drink­ing. Duke president Nannerl Keohane was aware of the circumstances sur­rounding Bath's death from the begin­ning. She issued a press release relat­ing the full cause of death last week after another student narrowly escaped death from a similar experience. 
In a related story, Texas A&M University released reports Monday that provide several eyewitness accounts of alcohol consumption during the building of the Aggie Bonfire in November. Twelve students were killed Nov. 18 when a stack of logs used to construct the 40-foot structure col­lapsed. No mention of alcohol had been made in connection with the incident. 
While it is still unclear how long the Texas A&M administration has had information about alcohol being pre­sent at the scene, a disturbing trend is emerging in connection with alcohol­related deaths. Too often universities fear negative publicity -especially during the prime months of admissions -and that fear outweighs the best interests of the students. 
In recent years. there has been an increasing recognition of alcohol abuse on campuses nationwide -and, conse­quently, a stricter scrutiny of how indi­vidual colleges are attempting to cor­rect the problem. The university is no stranger to the kind of infamy that results from alcohol-related incidents. The 1997 death of fourth-year college student Leslie Ann Baltz and its possi­ble connection to the "fourth-year fifth" made national headlines. The at Texas A&M requires sensitive treat­ment by the administration and media. 
There is a larger concern that out­weighs a respect for the deceased. Alcohol-related deaths claim the lives of too many college students each year. In 1998 alone, five Virginia college stu­dents died in alcohol-related incidents. And while students are responsible for their actions, universities have a duty to monitor social attitudes on campus. 
If universities expect their students to be open and direct about the social cul­
ture and the 
role of alcohol 

attention was Too often universities fear on campus, the embarrassing. /\nd negative publicity -especially administration 
yet the university must do the
during the prime months of
continues to handle same. Keeping the alcohol culture admissions -and that fear secrets will here in a fairly outweighs the best interests of the only serve to 
direct manner. widen the emo­
students.
Unfortunately. the same cannot be said for other universities. By not pro­viding all the details of alcohol-related deaths to students, Duke and Texas A&M not only are failing to educate their students, but they may be endan­gering the students' lives as well. 
When Baltz died, many university students began to examine their own drinking habits and those of their friends. Her death -though not explic­itly connected to the fourth-year fifth tradition -also helped prompt a cam­paign against the unofficial event. 
In the Duke case, a student died of a relatively unknown condition. Many students don't realize that aspiration is a threat after a night of binge drinking and that it requires immediate treat­ment. It is scary to think that, had Duke continued to withhold the information surrounding the case, more students could have suffered the same fate. 
Duke officials argue that they were simply protecting the privacy of Bath and his family by not making public the role of alcohol in his doath. And there is no doubt that the incrndible tragedy tional gap 
between stu­dents and those "adults" who inhabit the big offices. And the less students feel they can speak frankly about alco­hol, the further the administration will be from the source of the problem ­and potential solutions. 
The word "senseless" is used a lot in conjunction with the deaths of college students. It is appropriate. There seems to be no rationale, no justice in the tak­ing of such youth and promise. By speaking out honestly about student deaths, and making students aware of the dangers of alcohol, college officials have a chance to derive something pos­itive from even the darkest tragedies, preventing them from happening again. 
Katie Dodd is a columnist for The Cavalier Daily at the Uni1•ersity of Virginia. Her column is reprinted courtesy of the U-Wire. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those rf The Observer. 

SCOTT ADAMS 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
r--:::::::::~::::::::::::::---,gr--::=::=:=======::--,1r-:~~~~~~-, 
I CAN'T MEET ~ AND ON NEXT TUESDA"i' ; j WEDNESDAY BECAUSE THAT'S ) I DON'T NEED. TO l I'LLBE WALKING A B.V. DA'Y. j PRETEND I'M AROUND ALL DAY 
".'-iecrecy and afree, democratic government don't mix." 
Harry S. Truman 
Fonner U.S. president 


VIEWPOINT 
Monday, February 28, 2000 
page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Get with it, Health Services 
I am writing this letter in order to sham my dis­turbing llcalth Services experience with the Notre Dame community. 
Hall started last week when I came down with the latest dorm plague -your typical sore throaVfever/stuITy nose thing. I was feeling awful, but I decided to persevere aud go tu all of mv rlasses for the dav. and if I still w~sn 'L focling better." I would go to I lealth Services after class. 
One of mv rlasses that day was having a guest lecture on HIV/AIDS. As I sat in the classroom watr,hing the ler­turnr. an Hf\" positive man in his early 30s, show us one of 30 "drug cocktails" Im must take every dav to survive. l started to panir. l haven't engaged in any of the live high-risk behaviors (did you know that HJV is now transmitted through tattoo ink?), but I still thought. "What if that hap­pened to me? What if, by some freak of' nature. I happened to contract this lethal virus?" I suppose it was a little bit of paranoia and fear combined with the fact that I was sitting there with a fever and chills. In any event, I decid­ed to get tested. for peace of mind if nothing else. 
I went to Health Services, saw the doctor for my sorn throat and requested the mv test. After hav­ing my blood dravvn. I asked the nurse when I would get the results. She didn't know, so she had to ask anothP-r nurse. The second nurse told me to call after 1:30 p.m. the following day. I did. '.'Jo results. The nurse told me that I was "just going to have to be patient." and that if she didn't contact me by 5:00 p.m., I'd have to wait till Monday. 
rive o'clock rolled around and the nurse called to inform me that my blood sample had been lost! Somewhere between the lab and the "blood truck." my blood sample was misplaced! The nurse calmly told me that things lih that just hap­pen, and J was going to haYe to come in on 
Mondav to have more blood drawn. Of rOl{rse, I would sill havfl to pay thfl 40 . bucks for the test, despite the over­, .·. whelming inconvenience of. the
~ 
i / whole situation. 1 ./ Am Ijust overreacting, or is l ·•.· ·· this.·a bit disturbing.'? Vvhat if I genuin<)ly thought that 
there was a good chance 11 that I was IIIV positive'? \ What if it had taken mo 
five weeks to muster up
J,1 

the courage to even get tested? lam almost 100 ~ percent certain that I don't have HIV. and the whole testing process was still stressful to me! l couldn't imagine what it would feel like for someone who had a good chance of testing positive. All I can think of is that my blood is lay­ing around in some unknown location 
in a vile with my social security number ­and perhaps my name. Hmm -that sure isn't a good feeling. 
Please make your problems with Notre Dame Health Services known! For the amount of money we pay to go here (and even ifwe didn't pay so much), sloppy procedures like this one must not be tolerated. Get your act together, Health Services! 
Anonymous February 21, 2000 
Service is a priority forseniors,grads 
Jn rnsponse to Ashley Lowery and Jake McCall's recent letter about post-grad­uate options for seniors in the College of Arts and LcttP.rs, I would like to com­ment on what I hear from the many seniors I meet with to discuss post-grarluate service programs. 
Nearly 10 percent of the Notre Damfl graduates in the 1990s, approximately 180 graduates each year, chose to participatc in service pro­grams for one year or more. Throughout the academic year, I meet with many seniors to discuss their deci­sion-making process and the variety of domestic and international service pro­grams available. 

What I bear is not that these seniors cannot find jobs, but that at this time in their lives service with others is a priority, motivated by faith or by humanitarian con­cerns. Many ask for and receive one or two year deferments from employers or graduate schools. Others seek to use the knowledge and skills that have been developed in their under­graduate education for this vear or two with a not-for­profit agency. Placements include opportunities for those who have skills in engi­neering, journalism, legal advocacy, social service, pub­lic policy advocacy, market­ing, medical fields as well as many others. 
The seniors that I listen to, including those who may not choose to commit to a post­graduate service program but explore other ways to integrate social concerns into their personal and profes­sional livns, are living out the mission of the University in a profound way: "The aim is to create a sense of human soli­darity and concern for the common good that will bear fruit as learning becomes service to justice." I believe that this is the fiber of' a Notre Dame education. The .,­challenge is to continue to integrate these concerns into our post-graduate lives, whatever path ofjobs, ser­vice programs or graduate schools we choose. 
Thank you, Ashley and Jake, for the discussion that you have generated. 
Andrea Smith Shappell, '79,'85 Director Senior Transition Programs Center for Social Concerns February 22, 2000 

Are we celebrating genocide? 
I had never been inside the administration building until this year. Something has been bother­ing me ever since 1walked through the hallway on the second floor. Has anyone noticed those huge pseudo-tapestries on the wall? They depict Christopher Columbus in various scenes regarding the "discovery" or America and related r.vents. In fact. they don't just dr.pict Columbus, they glorify him to some degree. One painting actu­ally shows the l\ative Americans bo~ing clown before Columbus, holding a cross. It's pretty scary. 
Surely, by now, no one still lwlinves that there is anything about this man to be proud of or glorified. Hopefully, we all know that Columbus hardly discovered ,\merica. I le accidentally landed on I lispaniola, thinking it was India. Ilispaniola and many other parts of North and South America had beim inhabited for thousands of years by numerous tribrs. These older cultures wflrf'. peaceful, happy and connected to life and thee land bcforn the arrival of Columbus and those who were to follow him. 
The Arawak tribe which first gnieted Columbus and his crew by offering thmn gifts. food and care for their illnesses were treated to a prepared proc:lamation called "The H.1~quirnment." which all Spanish conquorors read to the uncompre­hending natives. It stated: "I implore you to recognize the Chun;h ... and in Lhe name of the Popr1 take the King as lord of this land ... if you do not ... I will make war upon you ... I will takP. your persons and your women and your children and I will make them slaves I will take your goods and I will do you all the evils and harms which I ran. The deaths and injuries that you will receive from here on will be vour own fault." This edict was followed by slavery, rape and genocide. 
The issue is that for one reason or another, the University seems to have overlooked the prejudiced. murdering rapist hanging in glory from the walls of its administration building. In fact, Columbus hangs right under Mary, the irony of which is astounding. 
I understand that we cannot judge the events of history by pre­sent day standards or values, but we also have the responsibility to ourselves -and to our future ­not to hide the unpleasantness of our history. We certainly should not glorify any such event or action that we view as plainly cruel or immoral. I would hope that this universitv does not support the ideals or'Columbus, such as money at anv cost and disrespect for all other· living beings. l would hope the Catholic Church would not sup­port such methods of converting people to a certain religion. I don't see any Nazi flags around campus, so apparently the Cniversity doesn't support the genocide of the Jews. The Confederate flag doesn't hang in the halls of the Main Building. so the University appar­ently doesn't support bigotry and slavery, either. 
So why have anything that glori­fies a man who not only believed in both of these, but also brought horror and pain to people who had never experienced it until his arrival'' 
Tim Ferrell Sophomore Alumni Hall Fehruary 13, 2(100 


No 'elections' occured 
Both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are now engulfed in scan­dals resulting from student body elections. But there is one slight problem: These votes were not elections. As of now, the student body has elected neither Crissie Renner at Saint Mary's nor Brian O'Donoghue at Notre Dame. In order for a president to be elected, he or she must receive 50 percent plus 1 votes of all the votes cast. Currently, neither candidate has received that amount. 
I think that these elections have undermined the integrity of stu­dent government as a whole. Let's face it. Elections mean elections ­not appointments. The Judicial Council appointed an individual candidate president. From what I know about elections, a run-off is supposed to be a contest for votes between two choices. When you disqualify one of the tickets, the vote is not a run-off. It is an appointment. Tho dismissal of the John Osborn appeal is unconstitu­tional and sets a dangerous prece• dent in student bodv elections. If the Judicial Councii chooses this president, where will it end? The stutlent body should choose the presi.dcnl and vice president of the student body. 
~ilici~Coon~doMn~ha~ the right to decide the president. Kelly Folks, the Judlcial Council president, said that the primary and final election "must be viewed as two completBly snparate, differ­ent elections." How can this be? The candidates in the final elec­tion depend on the decisions of the primary election. Therefore, the final election is dependent on the primary election. They cannot be viewed as two separate elections. 
Let me propose a hypothetical. 
Let's suppose one ticket was accused of campaigning on Election Day and the other ticket sent out campaign materials via e­mail. According to campaign laws, both tickets would probably be disqualified. According to the logic set forth by Kelly Folks, both tick­ets would be disqualified and there would be no president for the coming school year. Because the elections are now viewed as separate and because all other candidates were "eliminated" in the primary vote, the student body would not be represented for the coming school year. This could be the result of the precedent Kelly Folks and the Judicial Council has set. By disqualifying the Hunt Hanover/John Micek ticket and not accepting the Osborn appeal, the Judicial Council has blatantly disregarded their duty to hold a run-off election, as expressed in the constitution. Instead, they appointed a president and chose the easy way out. In doing so, the Judicial Council threw the consti­tution out the door. 
In my opinion, the senate has a few options. First, they could make the results of the vote between Hanover and O'Donoghue public. O'Donoghue and Norton should definitely win if they received a 50 percent plus 1 majority. Or. they could have another run-off between O'Donoghue and Osborn. Sure, this may bn inconvBnient. But is it worth disregarding the constitu­tion and setting a dangerous precedent over convenience? 
Patrick Dunnigan 
Freshman 
bhm Hall 
February 25, 2000 


page 14 Monday, February 28, 2000 
TECH COLUMN 
Ready for Window-s 2000? 
Well. in a word. no. The !'art is 1.hal the leap into the new millennium is not one that requires a change in your computer's operating system. For those who am unfamiliar with computers. an operating system. or OS. is the software that helps to run your compL1ter·s functions. The "Windows Family" of products from Mir.rosoft has been and still is the most successful operating system in the world. The beauty of the OS is that it runs un virtually any machine, which makes it a vrry Yersatile operating system. This has helpP<l strengthen its populari­ty. 
However. this aside. the world is not necessarily going to embrace Windows 2000 right away. 
Amid rumors of bad pro­gramming, software bugs and the tremendous delay in the release of this latest version of' Windows. the publir has a tarnished view of the once mighty Mir.rosoft. The rnrrent anti-trust case pending in the r.ourts also is not helping the pub­
lic. relations of the company. With this anti· Microsoft feeling emerging. others have begun to penetrate further into the operating system mar­ket share. Chiellv, the rise of Linux as an alterna­tive OS has caused quite a stir. driving the stock prices of companies like Hed Hat, who specialize in the Linux produr.t, to soaring heights on Wall Street. 
But wait a minute: Am I being too hard on the new Windows 2000 product'? Perhaps. but some of my criticism is well placed. The first thing to attack would be its price. which is expensive to say the least -approximately $170 for the upgrade to win2k. or $250 for the full version. This alone is astonishing, especially when you consider that for the price. there are very limited new features. 
The most noticeable benefit is that they der.ided to build it upon the Windows NT technology. which means that it is expected to be much more reliable (i.e. it will not crash as much). But. the newest features are really not that new. or need­ed. Things like rading menus when you right dir.k on things or click the start button are nice. hut not really practical. There are a few more options for people who love to mount hard drives over the network. or really like to fully integrate their desktop with the internet. but mostly these func­tions are for the techno savvy. 
Microsoft says that win2k it is more secure then Windows 98. but with the vicious rumors of bug problems. I personally don't feel too secure with it running on my system. The real problem for most people is that if you want to run the new OS, you will probably need to upgrade your system again. The minimum requirements will make your machine crawl. and therefore I would personally recommend running win2k on a machine with nothing less than 128mb or RAM. and a 300mllz processor. 
Howrwrr. in Microsoft's clefrnsr, it is claiming that this release is only for businesses, and that the individual user should wait on upgrading until the new Windows MillPnnium produrt arrivfls in the fourth quarter of this year. 
But, I believe many home users will buy this blindly due to tlrn naming ronvention that was used. Consumers may think that they am sup­posed to buy it for their home, because they bought win95 and \\in98 already. Ir I were you though, I would probably stick with your current OS, because it is not necessary lo upgrade now. Bottom line: Ir the only thing you get for the upgrade is a morn stable operating systrm. it is really not worth your 170 bur.ks. 


The uiews expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obserl/er. 
Zahm is life, not just a dorm 
When you arrived on campus as freshmen, thr,y told you Notrn Dame has no f'ratnrnitics. 
They lied. 
Located obtru­

Robert
siv<'ly b(~twixt 

Pazornik
t.hr, Golden 
Dome and North 
Dining l lall, a 

Zahm 
certain stone 

Resident
e,dilkn stands proudly erect i<H' rdl to admire. Since 1937, thousands ofDomcrs past and present have hailed that ivy-clad strur.turc with a reverence usually rosflrved only for Lou Iloltz and visiting pontifls. \Vhile somo who attf'nd this school call Nolrn Damn thnir 011(1 true home, thcro is a proud group who saves tbat d<1signalion for the hall of'Zahm. 
From thr outsidr, innocent passersby may only conjecture as to the goings-on which trans pin• behind Zahm Hall's thick, snemingly soundproof' walls. HesidcnL<;, or "Zahmbies," as some nativr.s prefer, have the privilege of' nxp(wirncing Zahm firsthand. 
"Pr.ople who don •t live here can't imagine what lifo in this hall rnally means," said Jim Moravek, a Zahm resident assistant. "It's not like living in a hall with 200 guys; it's like living in a hall with 200 brothers. Zahm life is not dorm life." 
Others who liv(1 in Zahm concur, living in Zahm I fall is unlikr. living in any other housing on campus. Most even refuse to call Zahm a dorm. 
"Zahm just doesn't fit the tradition­al definition of' a dormitory," said Wally Poirier. a formr.r Zahm resi­dent. "We trnat ,mch other like fami­ly. We trust each other liko familv. we play with each other like family, sometimes we fight like family, but above all, we love each other likr. family." 
Some ouL-.iders interpret the broth­erly sentiment shared by Zahmbir.s in a controversial light. But then again. controversy is nothing nPw to Zahm Hall. A<; a group, Zahm Hall resident<;' reputation for illicit activi­ties and r.harar.teristic obnoxious behavior prr.C!~dr.s them in all facets of the Notre Dame community. Most Zahmbies rncognize with some degree of pride that while about 10 pr.rcent of the '\lotrr. Dame communi­ty will take a trip to Main Building for a disciplinary r.onferencr. some­limn during tlwir academic earner, the same statistir for Zahm I Iall resi­dents is approximately 60 pr.rcent. 
llow then, some ask. has Zahm come to represent a complctPly dif'­ferr.nt demographic than tho average Notrr. Damr. student? Why are thny so loyal. so brazen, so dilforent? 
According to popular lorn, Zahm always has bnr.n distinct among th,i University's rosidcmco halls. Way back in tlw day, whnn housing was r,hosr.n by students in tlm ordflr of gradr. point average, Zahm 1-Iall, br.ing farthest from the campus cnn­ter a.nd closc)st in proximity to desig­natod frr.shman dorms. was usually the last r.hoice on students' lisL'i. i\s a result. thosn with thr. lowPst gradn point averagns traditionally congrn­gatod in Zahm. making it a lrn.ven for llm "dregs" ot' lhc Notrr, Damn com­munity. 
But what Zahm lacked in acadc­mia, it quickly made up for in social skills. Zahm 's underbraillfld and f'rr.­quently oversauced residents quickly (mrned the hall an "Animal I louse" reputation with thrir frequent par­ties and no-rules atmosphere. Along with this persona came the advent of' initiations. hazing and othcr ques­tionable "traditions" which briskly guildr.d the Zahm community into the most fraternal organization on campus. 

Long after the system of studr.nt choice in dorm assignment was done away with. Zahm's reputation for loyalty and brotherhood lived on, perpetuating iL<;elf down from gener­ation to generation of Zahmbies. 
In one case, loyalty to Zahm ,~xtended even beyond its residents. In 1986, celebrated Zahm rector Father Thomas King took a leg­endary stand for his sons and · beloved hall. Administrative oflicials, long having become tiresome of Zahm's disreputable behavior. and needing spar.fl to ar,r.ommodat(\ the growing number or fr.male students. strongly considered making Zahm a target for conversion to a women's dormitory. 
In a furious reaction to this unchecked aggression. Father King declarr.d that if' Zahm were to ber.omr. a women's dorm. he would "Jock himself in his room and sr,t his sons loose on the campus." That is, he would eliminate any regulations governing thr.ir conduct for the remainder of' the academic year. Furthr.rmorr., he warned, after Zahm's conversion, he would contin­ue to live in his room until removed by f'orcr.. 
Fortunately for thr. Univr.rsity, that never had to happen. And in a relat­<1d story, men no longrr live in Cavanaugh. 
Father King, who retired in l 997. still visiL<; his old boys in the dorm of' the red Z. Like some revered hero of' yore. he mysteriously rrturns annu­ally to host Zahm's famed D<1cade Dance. laboriously selecting the playlist, some speculate, months in advance. Then. like a gallant cowboy fading into the sunset ovr.r the mead­ow, disappears bar.k into Corby for another 12 months. 
Over time, Zahm has evolved from a simple frat house to a semi-respon­sible, somewhat respectable commu­nity. Unknown to most students, Zahm is home to the highest collec­tive dorm grade point average, the most honors students and the most respected inner-city charity organi­zation of South Bend. 
There Are Children Here. a pro­gram bringing urban youth out of their hostile home environments. has been hosted by Zahm volunteers and resident staff for nearly a decade. 
Zahm interhall sporl'i, though rarely dominant, are without excep­tion the most well attended and sup­ported. The Zahm Fear hockey and Rabid Bats football teams have been constantly bringing Zahmbies togeth­er and sometimes ripping the com­petition apart since the early 20th century. 
Zahm has r.ven recently taken an active role in improvfl<l gender rela­tions by ollicially naming Saint Mary's as its new sister dorm, as well as improving campus life by bringing an element of entrrtain­mr.nt and sanity to the usually mun­dane and mind-numbingly ridiculous ceremony of' prr.tense that is our stu­dent government election. 
At the end of thr. day, it is dillicult to determine exactly what makes Zahm what it is. While tradition, myth, legend and mystery all play vital roles in the living sprit that is Zahm I fall, it is undeniable that there is something deeper which is capable of bonding 200 men to a simple stone structure. and more sig­nificantly, to one another. 
Said one eloqurnt Zahmbie of his hall: "It's not a dorm. It's my home." 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 


Monday, February 28, 2000 

By COURTNEY KERRIGAN 
Scene Writer 
Sorin I !all is a legend in itself. It has been the home of such great Notre Dame heroes as Knute Bockne and the Gipper !George Gippl, and many other little known. but very impor­tant men. Every Sorin Otter. as well as twery Notre Dame student. aspires to live up to the level of greatness of thr.se Notre Dame leg­ends. 
Evervone has heard that Sorin Hall has a rir,h history. but most aren't aware of the enormous ro!P that the Otters played in the historv of Notre Dame. 
In 1 ·888. Father Edward Sorin, on the 50th anniversary of' his priesthood. blessed the cor­nPrstone of Sorin Hall. the first Catholir, col­lege dorm. Construction began that year. and so began the story of Sorin Hall and the Univrrsity of Notre Dame. The l"irst floor of Sorin housed the law school. whir,h at that time was still in its infant stages. 
In 1897. University presi­dent Father Morrissey decided to add two large additions to thr dorm. dou­bling the or,cupancy and indicating the substantial growth that the University was to undergo in the next fow decades. 
In 1905, the covered porr.h was added as a direct consequence of an incident -om: that is supposedly still rommon today -in which a student dumped water from the upper lloor onto the head of a famous law professor. On this porch hangs a sign that renames the dorm "Sorin College" and is a remnant of thP. famous vear of 1969. when Sorin antiwar demon­strators seceded from the University. Many Otters still proudly refer to their dorm as "Sorin College," in rPmcmbranr.e of the rebrl­lion and reform that Sorin instigatrd at that timr. 
Sorin Hall has had many famous rectors. J.. ather Morrissey and Father James Burns, who went on to becomP presidents of the Universitv, once made their homes in Sorin. Father Pat Haggerty, who administered last rites to George Gipp ("win one for the Gipper") was also an Otter. Others include Gus Dorais. Frank Leahy. Paul Horning, Hocky Bleier. Pete Demerlee. Ken Mar,affee, Tom Clements, Dave Casper, Babby Leopold. Steve Beuerlein and of course, the ever-famous and most beloved. Knute Rockne. 
Today. Sorin Hall is still going strong with their rector, Father Steve Newton. leading the way. The assistant rector since 1996. Sean Seymore. is a Ph.D. candidate in chemistry. Co-presidents Larry Burchett and John Taggart and the other 153 residents of Sorin Hall keep traditions. such as the Sorin Talent Show, alive and well. University president Father Edward \1alloy, in-residence, is also a 1963 graduate of Notre Dame and a former varsity basketball player. All of these men continue a tradition in Sorin that has lasted 112 years since the dorm was built and will last forever in the hearts of the Otters. 
page 15 

AP ENTERTAINMENT BRIEFS 

Photo courtesy of Maverick Records Madonna covers Don McLean's classic "American Pie" for her new movie "The Next Best Thing," co-starring Rupert Everett. 
Madonna remakes classic with caution 
NEWYOHK Madonna wasn't sure if she could do justice to Don McLean's 1971 classic "American Pie." 
She told the New York Daily News for Sunday's editions she recorded her own version of McLean's homage to Buddy Holly, Ritchie Valens and the Big Bopper for her new movie "The Next Best Thing" at the urging of co-star Rupert Everett. 
"I thought. 'Who am I to do a cover of a pop classic?' But I was working in the studio on other music, and it was like, 'OK. let's just try it.' And it kind of worked. to my surprise." 
Everett also lends his voice to the song in distant background vocals. 
"To me, it's a real millennium song," Madonna said. "We're going through a big change in terms of the way we view pop culture. because of the Internet. In a way, it's like saying goodbye to music as we know it-and to pop culture as we know it." 
Oasis' bad behavior is just a phase 
NEW YORK Members of Oasis say they've abandoned their bad behavior to r,oncentrate on making music. 
The group's fourth album "Standing on the Shoulder of Giants" is scheduled to hit record stores Tuesday. and its world tour kicks off this week in Japan. 
Singer-songwriter Noel Gallagher says the band has outgrown the exr.esses that fueled its wild ways in recent years. The group was banned from Cathay Pacific Airways in 1998 after getting rowdy on a flight from Hong Kong to Australia. 
"I think it's a phase that every band goes through, where the hedonism just becomes all-consuming, and all of a sudden you real­ize that what you are in the band for -which is the actual music ­has become a secondary issue," he told the New York Post for Sunday's editions. 
Kentucky celebrates Muhammad Ali 
LOS ANGELES 

The Kentucky governor's office pulled out all the stops to honor former heavyweight boxing champ Muhammad Ali in his home­town. 
A crowd of about 5,800 turned out Friday for "Muhammad Ali Day," including about 4,200 public school students. 
Lonnie Ali spoke for her husband, who has Parkinson's dis­eases. which inhibiL5 his speech. slows his walk and causes his hands to tremble. She told the crowd there's nothing that raises Ali's spirit more than "lots and lots" of children. 
The celebration was held as design plans are being completed for the construction of a riverfront Muhammad Ali Center. 
Berry injured in hit-and-run 
WEST HOLLYWOOD. Calif 

Los Angeles County sheriffs deputies are investigating a hit-and­run car accident that involved actress Halle Berry, a sheriff's spokeswoman said. 
Berry was in a rented Chevrolet Blazer involved in a crash with another car early Wednesday. Deputy Elisabeth Sachs said Saturday. 
A woman in the other car had a broken arm and was...treated at a hospital. The 31-year-old Berry sought medical trPatment for undis­closed injuries. 
Sachs said it was not clear if Herry was driving or was a passen­ger. She said no arrests had been made. 

page 16 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Monday, February 28, 2000 
155 
continued from page 28 
the first round. "I knew hn'd be aggressive," said Dobosh. "So my plan was 
to take his jab and throw  a  
straight punch."  
McMurtie finished  with  a  

strong third round, landing several strong right jabs, but it was not enough to give him the upset. 
Dobosh wlll face Tom "The Pretender" Pierce in the semi­finals. Pierce won a unani­mous decision over ChristophPr "Redhead Thundnr" Kusek. Pierce con­trolled the ring and dominated from thP start with a big right punch, while Kusek struggled to land his combinaLions throughout the three rounds. 
160-pound Division 
Top seed "Dangerous" Dan Schaflffor madfl an earlv exit from the Bouts when he ·lost a unanimous decision to P.J. "Downtown" DuWors. Schaeffer controlled the cen­ter of the ring in the first round and landed repeated combinations, but DuWors' powerful undercut and jab proved to be too much for the junior favorite. DuWors earned a spot in Sunday's round after earning a decision over Brandon "Oh No You Didn't" Zick. 
Duwors will find his semifi­nal competition in Joseph "The Polygamist" Smith. Smith has yet to step in the 
Carmardo took control in the second round, but McCullough sealed his win with a powerful three-punch combination that forced the No. 2 seed into a standing-eight count, giving McCullough enough points for the win. 
"I thought it was a good fight," said McCullough. "[CamardoJ was a tough fight­
er. n 
McCullough's next chal­lenger will be Chris "My Nickname Was Excised" Matassa. Matassa. with a clear height and reach advantage, earrn,d a unanimous dncision over John "Judas" Berry. 
165-pound Division 
Top seed Sean "The Erie Kid" Nowak had one or the tournament's most decisive wins when the referee stopped the bout just 18 seconds into the first round and awarded the law student the win over Matthew "The Jedi" Gentile. 
Nowak will face Tim "Rock" O'Rourke in the semifinals. O'Rourke rarned a split deci­sion over Daniel "The Danimal" Probst after three rounds of clos~, sparring. 
No. 2 Seed Don Penn took just more than a minute to earn a victory in his bout with Holt "The Fightin' Heinhold" Zeidler to advance to the semifinal round. Penn came out strong, delivering a mix of high and low combinations, forcing the referee to sto·p the contest at 1:05 into the con­test. 
Penn will meet Joe "The Polish Tank" Czerniawski on Tuesday. 
Czerniawski
ring during "I wanted tb get out there 
had no problem
the tourna­and dominate in the first 
taking care of 
ment. The 
round, but I didn't think challenger
senior 
Thomas "The
it would be over
earned a 
Terminator"
bye in the that quickly. " 
Cullen in a ref­
preliminar­
eree-stopped
ies and a 
contest.
Joe Czerniawski
walkover 
Czerniawski
victory 165-pound division winner 
was aggressive
Sunday. 
from the out­
The sec­
s et. landing a
ond-seeded J.P. "Fabulous 
series of combinations that
Thunderlips" Camarda" fell to 
sent Cullen to the mat and
challenger Matt "All You Can 
ending the bout one minute
Eat" McCullough. McCullough 
and 17 seconds into the first
earned a unanimous dedsion 
round.
Sunday after a victory Friday 
"I wanted to get out there 
over "Massive" Dan Masse. In 
and dominate in the first 
one of the most controlled 
round. but I didn't think it
fights in the division, 
would be over that quickly,"
McCullough came with a 
said Czerniawski. "You expect
strong power right and was 
every match to go three
able to land more punches 
rounds so I let up a little bit a
than Carmardo. 
few times because I didn't
"My game plan was to stay 
want to be exhausted later in
fornsed and trv to hit him as 
the match."
hard as I ·could." said 
Despite his strong showing.
McCullough. "I wanted to go 
Czerniawski doesn't expect his
in. land some punches and 
semifinal match to be that
then come back out." 


120 LB. Weight Division Reggie "The UgTy Stick" Roblcs vs. Michael "Mr. Bubbles" Dixey(S) W . h ...
130 LB 

· . e1g t D1v1s1on 
Jqhn "I am the Bombay Bee" Kakkanathu vs. Matthew "The Don" Fumigalli(U) 140 LB. Weight Division Daniel "Too Short" Gallegos vs. Michael Kontz(S) 
Kurt Wilson(S) vs. Dominic "Little Italy" Angiollo Josh Coleman(S) vs. William "The Polish Hammer" Uniowski Jim "The Unloader" Shacklett vs. Michael "The Motor City Madman" Waldo(U) Joseph Zilligan vs. An 'Ton of Bricks Poundin' Down On Yo Face" Kemps(U) 
150 LB. Weight Division 

Brock "Landers" Heckmann vs. J.R. "Maddog" Mellin(U) Kevin "Layin' The Smack Down·· Downs vs. Tom "T.K." Owens(W) Joseph "What's Up Ladies!" Biggs vs. Dennis 'The Natural Disaster" Abdelnour(W) "Cool Hand" Luke Stanton(W) vs. John Sarson 
155 LB. Weight Division 
Billy "Sweet Pea" McMurtrie vs.Jeff "The Pittsburgh Kid" Dohosh(U) Travis "The Only Time I Get 'Hit On' Is In The Ring" Alexander vs. Paul "He-Man" Mehan(S) Robert ''The Skinny Ginnea" Vuolo(U) vs. Donald "The Diaper Daddy" Doan · Tom "The Pretender•· Pierce(U) vs. Christopher "Redhead Thunder" Kusek 
160 LB. Weight Division 

"Dangerous" Dan Schaeffer vs. P.J. "Downtown" DuWors(U) Michael "Sugar Kane Jr." Kane vs. Joseph "The Polygamist" Srnith(W) John "Judas" Berry vs. Chris "My Nickname Was Excised" Matassa(U) 
Matt "All You Can Eat" McCullough(U) vs. J.P. "Fabulous Thunderlips" Camarda 
165 LB. Weight Division 
Sean "The Erie Rid" Nowak(W) vs. Matlhew "The Jedi" Gentile Daniel "The Danimal" Probst vs. Tim "Rock'' O'Rourke(S) Joe "The Polish Tank" Czerniawski(W) vs. Thomas "The Terminator" Cullen Don "The Destroyer" Penn(W) vs. Holt 'The Fighlin' Reinhold" Zeidler 
170 LB. Weight Division 

Ben "The Mail Must Get Through" Dillon(S) vs. Eric "My Nickname Was Excised" Hovan Ryan "The Rhino" Hernandez(S) vs. Joe "Layth Down The Smacketh" Kippcls Brian "Hoppe" Hobbins(S) vs. Kyle "The Private" Kerrigan 175 LB. Weight Division Rob "The Golden Schlager" Joyce(S) vs. John "Missile" Lynk 
Tom "The Tulsa Bomber" Biolchini(W) vs. Paul "Beast of the East" Riley Chris "The Bruisin' Lugan" Viasnoras vs. Tom "How Ya Like Me Now?" Dietrich(U) Steve "The Angry Pirate" Pfeiffer(W) vs. William "My Right is Bigger Than My Left" Pepek Josh "The Sandman" Thompson vs. Kurt "The Captain" Kurple(W) W , ht D' • ·
180 LB 
. e1g 1v1s1on 

Joey "Soda Pop" Leniski(S) vs. Keith Arnold Kyle "Smokin' Bluegrass" Smith vs. Doug "Sauce Doggy Dog" Bartels(S) Mark Criniti(W) vs. Bohhy ''I'll Make You Pay Castro" Kennedy . ht D' . . Tom "The Hitter" DeSplinter(U) vs. Chris "Captain Chaos" Prill 
190 LB W
. e1g w1s1on 
Patrick "The Hitman" Otlewski vs. Kevin "Hardcore" Brandi(S) Chris "The Sweet Scientist" Pearsall(U) vs. Tom "The Mad Mick" Herrity Gavin "The Morning Glory" Hagens vs. Jason "It's Not Easy Being J Rod" Rodriguez(W) 
200 LB. Wei~ht Division 

Peter "Beat The Rap" Ryan(W) vs. Dustin "My Nickname Was E"xcised" Ferrel Greg "NYTOL" Joseph vs. Joe "It'll Take You A Month To" Healy(S) Dan "Let Me" Adam(W) vs. Chris "The Perpetrator" Craylor Steve "Lefty Guns" Practico vs. Jonathon "BGP" Pentzien(W) 
(W) Winner (U) Unanimous Decision (S)Split Decision 
easy. put Kerrigan on the defensive 
"Don was the first guy I ever in the first round. sparred," said Czerniawski. "I Controlling the center of the need to work on throwing ring, Hobbins' patient attack straight punches and getting propelled him to the next in and getting out because this round on Tuesday. fight won't end the same way. Hobbins will face Ben "The Don is a real tough fighter." Mail Must Get Through" 
Dillon. Dillon upset No. 3 Eric "My Name Was Excised"
170-pound Division 
Hovan with a unanimous deci­
No. 1 Brian Hobbins had a sion. Dillon had a slight reach
tough quarterfinal round. but 
advantage, and llovan was
managed to pull away with a throwing a lot of punches but
split decision over challenger 
failed to land enough to pullKyle "The Private" Kerrigan. 
out a win.

Hobbins. with a slight reach, Dillon advanced to the quar­
camA out throwing a potent 
terfinals after earning a deci­
thrne-punch combination to 
JOSE CUELLARffhe Observer 

sion over John "Pride of the Parish" Murph..y Friday. 
No. 2 Joe "Layeth Down the Smacketh" Kippels earned a split decision over challenger Ryan "The Hhino" Hernandez. Kippels dominated in the first two rounds. Hernandez came alive in the third, but could not land enough punches to earn a place in the ring on Tuesday. 
Kippels will face Hob "The Golden Schlagr.r" Joyce in semifinal action. 
Joyce's powerful right gave him the edge in a split deci­sion over John "Missile" Lynk. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 \'·Ill· at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per Jay. including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for conrent without issuing refimds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

LACROSSE OFFICIALS  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL  Beautiful brass bed. queen size, with  FULL COLOR  
NOTICES  LOST & FOUND  Officials needed tor Men's lnterhall Lacrosse. This is a  YEAR GOOD AREA NORTH 2773097  orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. New, never used. still in plas- Copying Printing  
great way to get outside, earn  tic. $235  219-862-2082  Scanning  
THE COPY SHOP  Help! Silver and blue Guess watch  good money, & have tun!  NEW 4-BDRM. HOUSE NORTH OF  
Lafortune Student Center  lost somewhere between Debartolo  Attend the mandatory officials  CAMPUS. $350/PERSON, MIN. 3  Quality ranch,  THE COPY SHOP  
Store Hours  (rooms 155 or 205) and the SDH on  meeting on Wed. 311 @ 6pm  PEOPLE. CALL JOHN at 273-3828  2107 Rockne Dr.,  LaFortune Student Center  
Mon-Thur. 7:30am-M1d  Friday, February 18. If found please  in Rolf's Sports Rec. Center  1639 sq. ft., 3 bdrm, basement,  Call 631-COPY  
Fri  7:30am-7:00pm  call Julie at 2374.  or contact Brandon Leimbach  1 · bdrm Apt, walk in closet. parking  loads of storage,  
Sat: Noon-6:0Dpm  @631-3536.  space. In nice residential area on a  2-car garage. $113k.  We are dumb Americans. We have  
Sun: Noon-Mid  ··•····••·•·10st···•..···•••··•  lake, 10 min drive from ND.  288-8854.  no idea how much money this is.  
Free Pick-Up & Delivery!  silver Yashica camera on 2/18 near  $400/mo. $250 dep. Postgrad stu- How much can we get for it?  
Call 631-COPY We're open late so your order wiff'be done on timel  JACC -had JPW pies ······••*•*reward"**"•••****• CALL 634-3040.  FOR RENT ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE AND  dent or taculty only. No smoking, no alcohol. no party. Call 277-0189 between 12·9pm.  PERSONAL  hiya erin  
CLOSE  hey 21,  
BUILD CONDOS. APARTMENTS OR OFFICES.  WANTED  http://mmmrentals.hornepage.com/ email:mmmrentals@aol.com  B&B for ND grad & Football 3 miles. 4 rooms. CALL 287-4545  www.thecommentator.com  I am back Da boss  
..  Land for lease. 112 acre on Ivy Road  232-2595  
across from Eck Baseball Stadium. Write:  ASPIRING WRITERS! www.maincampus.com seeks stu- B'NB REGISTRY  FOR SALE  Need help with a project? Complete DESKTOP PUBLISHING  Noreen • dancin' queen  
dents for stories ranging from  219-291-7153  services are available at  Logan belts out backstreet boys  
LAND  Politics/Se-,JCulture/Opinions  New Phone Card  THE COPY SHOP  
704 PEASHWAY  $25 per story!  EXCELLENT 5 BEDROOM HOUSE  886 mins. $20  LaFortune Student Center  hey dirty,  
SOUTH BEND, IN 46617  Email us: team@maincampus.com  GOOD AREA NORTH 2773097  258-4805 or 243-9361  Call 631-COPY  beware of pyschos named Chris  


Monday, rebruary 28, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

-" G'REAT'BOOKS • 
' 
I 
.. I' ' 
I 
I 
I
~ov'tz'E. ~11>0,H" 1'1\!'. Eu-r~ov't~ 0NL"\ a. ~S:.AU 
Hl,,h~ ~Ill!,. l£qWOA~, :c ' I 
Sl\E\.'l>ot-i-Tl-lt1T'.S 01.t>! ~GW h TM,~ 1'0Sll11Lt'"?/ lA\C0'4S11U>TllA'T U~\llll>S 
~ °R£>..\.. 13E.Allt> ?.1 WEiL, J: ~AppUlt'.-1)To HAl)'BEE~ REfURlfl~To A \.\P.11E $Tlld\lL£D U()oN A RAlt ifll Cum.1il'\ 11iiJl1'. °'PA~\A~E. Ire £AA:Srnus ,,. WAS tt\l:~ tt\111' :c.. St... 
IN"'IC.;\ fl'\11'111=. fout.11 li\£ fo(l'l'\U~••• 
'1 J:'rn b.LP:. ~Ef E~Ute.E. To Ws ~1>1ilfll' 
~ ~fl ~NC.lttn" \.\All 16\1'1 ~K 
~f,.01111\\ ~llf!WI.A•~
\ . 

l.#.T1tt ft._ -...J ._.__.______ ,.._u..J ~....... "b,6' IT 1 ----_ __.. .....: 
Yo~ too ea1t ~11loeli tAo ~ 

• 

soerots ol tAo a9osl 




t 01 l38BR.Al S11AD3SS t 
~ ~ 
~ 1~os.2/29,6PM ~ vi ~ ltt1ort~110's Mo11tfO#IOIY Altdltorl~#I vi ~ g APPl.30A730NS AI/A3lA8l8 _NO_W 111 216 O'Slla{,. § 
~ ~ ~ ~ 
~ • S~ALL CLASSES"' • GREAT BOOKS• •GREAT STU.VENTS• ~ 
-J. 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 28, 2000 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish swimmers dominate Shamrock Classic 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
Sporrs W mer 
It has been hard for the women's swim team to find a competitor it didn't dominate. 
At this weekend's Shamrock Classir. meet, the swimmers con­firmed they were the same Big Hast champs who crushed oppo­nentc; for the title last weekend. 
Notre Dame used the two-dav mPet as an opportunity for th~ swimmers who didn't compete at the Big East tournament. 
Carrie Nixon and Shannon Suddarth didn't swim aL Lhe r.lassic. Yet the team captured victories in eight of 18 events on Saturday and all but two events during Sunday's competition. confirming the depth of the Irish squad. 
"Generallv. we were where we expected ,ve would be in this meet," said Bailey Weathers, women's head swimming coach. "This was an important meet for some of the younger girls. They worked hard this season and I was pleased with their perfor­mance this weekend " 
good swims," said Weathers. "We tried a number of diITer­for a longer time, which we did have three members of the team Freshman Lindsay Moorhead "This gives us a real good idea ent things this year and this because of the millennium. participating in the March finished the weekend with three 
of where we are at. We 're gives us a better perspective of "It's an important time to be event. 
individual first-place finishes in always trying to improve and what worked and what didn't with family, but next year I "We would have liked to have the 200-yard freestyle, 100-yard we'll end this season like.. every work, where our training is at think we need to go back to positioned ourselves better," he backstroke and 200-yard indi­season, trying to review things and what we need to do di!Ter­what we have normally done said. "However. there is a lot of vidual medley. Taking home two and plan better for next sea­ent in the future as a team. And which is to come back sooner depth at the national level this individual titles was sophomore son." also what some individuals and train as a team." year. It's a little disappointingBrooke Davey who posted wins The team also used the meet might need to do differently," Although the team had hoped for us. but it's not much di!Ter­
in the 100-yard freestyle and as a way to evaluate strengths said Weathers. "This was the to qualify more swimmers for ent than last year although it's 50-yard freestyle. 
and weaknesses heading into first year that we went home the NCAA Championships in not as big of a team as we have 
"In general, we had some 
next season. over Christmas and New Year's March, Weathers was pleased to sent in the past." 


Institute European Studies student Symposium 
McCulture: vs Cross Cul-turalism 
Tuesday, February 29 4-6pm McKenna Hall, CCE Auditorium 
The Symposium was conceived as a vehicle for highlighting and championing the multifaceted methods, implications and benefits of understanding and appreciating cross-culturalism. As a student run forum, the Symposium aims to expose Notre Dame students to the experiences and views of their peers and to encourage them to take 
opportunities to immerse themselves in cross-culturalism in w~ys 
that will benefit them regardless of their future occupations. 
The first portion of the Symposium will feature speeches by five 
current Notre Dame students, all with different experiences and 
interests. The second portion will facilitate questions. 


Iii 
• 

Monday, fehruary 28, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
Student Services Week · 
February 28 -March 3 
MONDAY: Free Bagels and Coffee/ Hot Chocolate 9:AM -11 :AM Outside DeBartolo 
TUESDAY: Academic Lunches Kickoff Free Pizza/Subs 12:PM -1 :30PM LaFortune Ballroom 
WEDNESDAY: Free Give Away Men's Basketball Notre Dame v. Syracuse 9:PM JACC 
THURSDAY: Karoake at Dining Halls 5:30PM -7:30PM Prayer Service at Grotto 
8:PM • 
FRIDAY: Time Capsule Ceremony 4:PM LaFortune 
Questions: Call Beth or Andrea at 631-7668 Sponsored by Student Government "Bringing it All Together" 
,_i, 

,\H'llt~{·tlwr 
• 
' 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 28, 2000 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish set four meet records at Invite 

By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
Sporrs 'X'riter 
The Notre Dame men ·s swimming team finished its season on a high note. rnwrit­ing the record books of the two-day Shamrock Classic meet this weekend. 
Breaking four meet records, the Irish finished strong in individual events, showcasing the talent and depth of every­one on the team from the undrrdassmen to the outgo­ing seniors. 
"This meet was a lot of fun for us," said Tim Welsh. men's head swimming coach. "The guys swam really well and it was nice for us to finish tho season racing as a team. in our own pool. It was a little emotional too because for the seniors. this is it. Thev will never race again in this pool." 
Team caplain and senior Ray Fitzpatrick turned in three individual victories in the 200-yard butterl1y and the 200-yard individual medley, breaking his own meet record with a time of 1: 54.57. 
"Once again, Ray r,ontinued to demonstrate his great ver­satility, especially with his win in the 200-vard butter11v ·which isn't an e~ent he usual­ly swims." said Welsh. 
Other upperr.lassmen cnlis­ing to individual titles includ­ed senior Dan Szilier in the 200-yard breaststroke and junior Greg Juszli in the 100­yard backstroke. Junior Ryan Verlin broke a meet record and captured first place in the 100-vard butterfly. 
Among the underclassmen. sophomore Michael Koss turned in a strong perfor­mance in the 100-yard breast­stroke, taking first place in the event. However. freshman Jason Colettis turned in the performance of the weekend. 
Not a member of the team's Big East travelling team, Colettis won the 200-yard backstroke and set a meet record with a time of 1:51.44, breaking the record of team­mate Brian Skorney of 
1:53.23. Colettis was also a member of the 400-medley relay team that inr.luded Koss. sen.ior !lob Fetter and fresh­man Jason Fitzpatrick thal took first place along with set­ting a meet record. 
"If you arc measuring how well we swam this weekend, Jason Colflttis probably had the swim of the weekend." said Welsh. ''With this meet. we say it is the last meet of this vear but the first meet of next·year. It sets the tone for next season. 
''By setting a Univusity record and swimming well .in this meet. .Jason estabhshd himself as a competitor and shows we have great things to 1.ook forward to from him next weekend. There was plenty of great swimming going on. Our underclassmen have really improved." 
Although some teams·'use this meet as a last r,hance to qualify for the NCAA Championships in March. the Irish did not earn additional considerations. 
"We always hope someone will qualify, but it is hard to do at a meet that comes right after the conference champi­onships," said Welsh. "These guys have raced five days out of the last 10. That makes it extra hard to qualify because by the tenth day. you are worn down." 
Overall. Welsh was pleased by the weekend's results. 
"We demonstrated the unity. spirit and energy that have been with us all season," said Welsh. "This weekend was just a great way to end the season." 
Plt>ast' jnin us for a iliscussion on the 

U:'ith 3 Falun Dafa practitioners.from Chicago 
MONDAY, FEB. 28 
5-6:30 PM 
204 DEBARTOLO HALL 
Please join us in a discussion regarding the recent political suppression and human rights violations the Falun Gong have faced in China and learn ahont their belief system and exercises that have intri~ue<l millions of followers. 
~ 
'. ~­
A*,·. ra1£U.
', r, 
Truthfulness, Compass.ion, Tolerance 
Spunsun•d 1,y Pi Sipna Alplrn au,I th,· C,•11!,•r fol' A,ian ~tndiPs 
Please Recycle The Observer 

NCAA 
continued from page 28 
times in the game, including a pivotal turnover by Murphy into Vernon .Jennings' hands with under 30 seconds to play. 
"Jimmy [Dillon! gave me a nice pass," Murphy said...I tried to go baseline, but the guy made a. nice defensive play. On lhe last trip down, we got two good looks at the bas­ket, but they didn't fa.II. They'rr. probably tho best defonsivc team we've played this year." 
The Irish played thAir hearts out in the game, leaving every­thing tlrny had on the floor. But that didn't make the loss any easier to take. 
"It's a tough thing to stom­ach," Murphy said. "It's dejecting. We don't have too many opportunities left." 
.lust a week ago, Notre Dame appeared a sure thing for the NCAA Tournament. 
Notre Dame had risen to a solo spot in lifth place of the Big East standings. It had pulled otThugc wins over two ranked conference opponents -Connecticut and Sr.ton Hall, including on the road. 
With the two wins, NCAA basketball experts at CBSSporlsline.com and RSIW com were projecting the Irish as either an eighth or a ninth seed in the 64-team tournament. 
Since then, Notre Dame dropped a rn-point decision to basement-dweller Providence on Notre Dame's home court, followed by the three point loss at Miami. 
Suddenly the Irish are tied for sixth place in Lhe conl'flr­ence, leaving their hopes for March Madness very up in thf1 air. 
"1 still like to think that if we can get a couplf1 more wins. we still have a legitimatfl shot," Doherty said. "We've 
got a lot of quality wins, five 
wins over top 25 teams. Only 
one team in the country has 
more. Arizona with six." 

But no matter how many 
quality wins. the Irish may 
have. the NCAI\ selection com­
mittee isn't likely to overlook a 
record that includes at least 
12 losses. 

The committee is going to look at upsets by Miami (Ohio). Pittsburgh and Providence. It's going to remember Notre Dame's late-season rncord, which stands at 2-4 in the last six games It's going lo consid­P-r Notre Dame's success. or lack thereof, on the road. And it witl think about the Irish standings in the league. 
Pollsters are predicting any­where from four to seven Big East teams as NCAA qualifiers. with five or six being most likely. 
Syracuse is secure in a top seeding for the tournament, at 23-'.{ overall and 12-2 in the league. 
St. John's and Miami, both 11-3 in the league, are also shoo-ins for March Madness. 
St. John's (20-61 has won seven straight, its last loss coming to Notre Dame in late January. It beat No. 2 Duke at Duke un Saturdav, the first home loss to a non-conference opponent in five years for the Blue Devils. 
"A game like that shows just how good the conference is," Murphy said, "For St. John's to go out and beat the No. 2 team in the country, Duke." 
Miami is on a three-game winning streak and has risen to 18-9 on the season. 
Seton Hall was considered a definite qualifier. but Villanova made things intrr­esting by upsetting the Pirates Saturday. The win raised Villanova lo a tie with Notre Dame in the Big East. making Villanova a possibility to make the tourney. 
Connecticut is a favorite as 
the defending national r,ham­
pion. The Huskies are 8-6 in 
the conference and 19-8 over­
all. But the Irish defeated the 
Huskies twice, almost daring 
the selection committee to pick 
the Huskies while leaving the 
Irish out. 
However. that isn't going to happen unless the Irish come through with some victories. No team with more than 14 losses has ever received an at­large tournament berlh, a numbrr Notre Dame is two away from. The Irish also ner,d to finish at or more than .500 in the Big Easl lo get a second look on selection Sunday. 
Notre Dame has two C()nfer­ence games remaining, top-10 ranked Syracuse at home Wednesday and Georgetown on the road Saturday. 
"I think we need to win two [games]," Doherty said after the loss to Providence...I didn't sav which two." 
Dcspit~ the tough agenda. the Irish rnmain intent on heading to the Big Dance for the first time in 10 years. 
"I think we would have to win our next two games, and then win a couple of games in the Big East." 
They have the talent with a roster including a pre-season All-American in Murphy, backed up by sophomore for­ward David Gravr.s. senior point guard Jimmy Dillon and a solid young supporting cast. 
The Irish have the potential to sr,orc some major tourney upsets. like they have over Connecticut. Ohio State and St. John's. They could be this year's Cinderella team, sweep­ing lhrough tlrn tournament and knocking out the competi­tion. 
But they have to gr.t thr.re first. 
The vietcs expressed in this column are those of the author and not those ofThe Observer. 


...and the buck stops here-At the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union, where we're for people, not for profit. 
Go team. 


NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
For People. Not For Profit, 
219-239-66 l l 

www, ndfcu .org e-mail: ndfcu@ndfcu.org 
INDEPENDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY 



Monday, February 28, 2000 "Strong bodies fight, that weak bodies may be nourished." 
page 21 

Dixey dances into semifinals with win 
By BRIAN BURKE 
Sporrs Writer 
The quarterfinals of Bengal Bouts opent>d Sunday afti>r­noon with one fight in the 120­pound division. Michael "Mr. Bubblcs" Dixey earned the split decision over Reggie "The Ugly Stick" Robles in a closely fought contest. 
The two danced around the 
ring during th!' opening round. 
both throwing a series of wild 
punches, with Robles sending 
Dixey backpedaling most of the 
first 1 minute, 30 seconds. 
Dixcv came back in the second 
as the pace slowed, landing 
some hard right hooks as he 
and Hobles traded blows. The 
third round then began with 
Roblcs drawing a line at the 
renter of the·ring as he and 
Dixey proceeded to take turns 
throwing uncontested hooks at 
each others· faces before they 
were both warned to protect 
thf'mselves. 
Dixey will face Jimmy "Pirahna" Ffshburne, who comes off a bye, in the semifi­nals Tuesday. 
130-pound division 
Matt "The Don" Fumagalli advanced to the semifinals with a unanimous decision vic­torv over John "I am the Bo~bay Bee" Kakkanathu. 
Fumagalli worked through 
the early barrage of furious 
swinging by Kakkanathu, back­
ing him into the ropes several times and landing straight rights and hooks to Lhe head. Fumagalli will face last year's 125-pnund champion, Jason "The Sweet Sensation" McMahon, in the semifinals Tuesday. McMahon had a quarterfinal-round bye. 
In the other quarterfinal bout at 130 pounds, Michael Kontz pulled out a split decision win ovPr Dan "Too Short" Gallegos in one of the closer fights of the day. Kontz and Gallegos both started conservatively. with neither seizing control early. In the third round, Gallegos went on the offensive but opened himself up to countering com­binations by Kontz. who took advantage. 
Kontz will face Camilo "Rollin"' Rueda. who had a semifinal bye. 
140-pound division 
Kurt Wilson came away with a split decision victory over Dominic "Little Italy" Angiollo in a hard-hitting, 140-pound contest. 
Wilson landed solid hooks to the head as both fighters trad­ed shots for the first two rounds. Wilson finished strong however, scoring with both hooks and jabs to the body in the third. Angiollo had reached the quarterfinals with a prelim­inary round win over Tucker "The Boston Massacre" McGree. 
Wilson moves on to face Josh Coleman, who earned a sur­prising split decision victory over Bill "The Polish Hammer" Uniowski. Coleman showed impressive tactics, staying low when Uniowski hooked, and countered with hard shots to the body. 


"He looked big, and he had more height," Coleman said of Uniowski. "My strategy was to get inside with body shots, use my headwork, and slip under­neath long punches. I also wanted to throw straight punches, especially a one-two combo with a jab and straight right hand." 

In a bloody contest, "Michael "The Motor Citv Madman" Waldo survived aslugfest to defeat Jim "The Unloader" Shacklett. Waldo and Shacklett stood toe-to-toe for much of the fight. both landing hard shots to the face. Despite the fight being interrupted several times to stop bleeding, Waldo was able to gain momentum in the final round, backing Shacklett into the ropes and landing a series of hooks. 
Waldo moves on to the semi­finals where he will face Anton "Ton of Bricks Poundin' Down On Yo Face" Kemps. Kemps earned a unanimous decision over Joseph "Got Mad Hits Like I was Rod Carew" Zilligan. Kemps used a series of jabs to the body to wear down Zilligan. Zilligan landed some hard hooks when the two traded punches, but Kemps got the best of most exchanges. 
150-pound division 
While the lighter divisions made for some very competi­tive clashes, the story in the 150 pound quarterfinal was dominating performances. First off. captain J .R. "Maddog" Mellin showed whv he is the man to beat at 150 pounds with a fundamentally sound victorv over Brock "Landers" Heckmann. Heckmann reached the quarterfinals by defeating "Bike" Mike McDonald on Friday. Mellin was in control throughout, earning the unani­mous decision by landing corn­binations and avoiding hooks from Heckmann. 
"He likes to put his head down," Mellin said of Heckmann. "I tried to throw uppercuts, he probably hits harder, so I wanted to move in and out." 
The final three fights at 150 pounds were short and ugly. First, Tom "T.K." Owens took a second round technical knock­out win over Kevin "Layin' The Smack Down" Downs. Owens and Downs both landed hard hooks in the first round. but by the second Owens had backed Downs into the ropes landing enough clean shots to the face for the fight to be stopped after 56 seconds. Downs had advanced by defeating Joe "Mama Can't Help You Now" Masley. 
In another TKO, "Cool Hand" Luke Stanton was declared the winner over John Sarson at 
1:10 of the second round. Sarson, who advanced to the quarterfinals defeating Rob "The Talented Mr." McColgan, received two standing eight counts in the first round, at times even turning away from Stanton when backed into the corner. 
Not to be outdone by Owens and Stanton was Dennis "The Natural Disaster'' Abdelnour who also notched a victory by technical knockout over Joe "What's up Ladies!" Biggs. Biggs, who advanced to tho quarterfinals with a victory over Pat "PBODY" Broderick, was unable to dcfend against straight rights and hooks from Abdelnour, and received two standing eight counts in the first round. The fight was stopped soon after at 1:17 into the contest. Abdelnour faces Stanton Tuesday. 
Recycle The Observer 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 28, 2000 

APPLICATIONS NOW AVAILABLE 
Battle of the Bands 
t t I 
outside the SUB office (201 LaFun) 
March 10......... Applications due March 13-14... Notification of applicants 
March 24 ......... Nazz2000 competition Alumni-Senior Club all ages welcome 
8.00 pm -1.00 am 
Miami 
continued from page 28 
face. They cheat off the five-man onto Troy and we try to make them pay for that. but they made some adjustments. It's frustrat­ing for Troy and it's frustrating for me." 
lt didn't get any less frustrating in the second half for Dohertv and the Irish. After Murphy and sophomore David Graves fueled a 10-0 run seven minutes into the second-half. Miami answered with a 14-3 run of its own. Paolo Coehlo, James Jones and John Salmons drained ronserutive 3­pointcrs and the Hurricanes Lied the game at 45. 
"I think I should have called a timeout [during that run]." Dohrrty said. "Coehln and Salmons were too open. We didn't rotate properly. We have certain slides on our defense and we were guarding guys in the wing and left people open. That was a mcnt:i.l breakdown on our part." 
ThA Hurricanes rngained the lead :i.t 49-48 on two free throws by Mario Bland with less than four minutes left and eventually extended their lead to as manv as four. -
Notrr Dame tried to pull even. but turnovers and the inability to convert casv shots late in the game, led to ·a three-point deficit with 19.3 seconds to play. 
After Miami's Vernon Jennings missed his second foul shot. the Irish ran a set play to give Murphy a chance to knock down the game-tying shot He got thfl open look. but wasn't able to connect. The Irish scrambled for the rebound and kicked the ball to Matt Carroll, but his attempt rimmed out as time expired. 
"We tried to run a play to Troy, but tht)Y did a good job defen­sively." Graves said. "We got a good look at it, and sometimAs they go in and sometimes thiw don't. That's part of the game", bu l they played a groat gam11 defensively." 
"We didn't execute well down the stretch," Doherty said. "It's disappointing since w,i talk about that a lot and work hard to improve. It was a lack of concen­tration on our part. but credit thAir defense." 
Miami's smothering defense held the Irish just 29 percent shooting in the second half and forced 22 turnovers. 
"Obviously our kids' del"ensive effort in the half court in the sec­ond half was the difference in tho game," Miami. head coach Leonard lla.milton said. "Onr.e we were able to slow the pai:e down 
and defend them in  thA  half'  
court. our kids did  an  excellent  
job."  

Graves led the Irish with 16 points, five rebounds, three assists and three steals. Murphy finished with "14 points and 10 rebounds, but had five turnovers. Point guard Jimmv Dillon had eight points and dished out three assists. 
Miami's Mario Bland scored 14 points and grabbed seven boards. Jennings had nine points, eight rPbounds and six assists. John Salmons added 12 points. 
Notre Dame returns to action Wednesday when it ·hosts Syracuse at 9 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
"Our kids hurt and that's good . because it shows we care," Doherty said. "We're going to get better and come out lighting on Wednesday." 
page 23

Monday, February 28, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
McGraw, Irish unable to break Husky curse for 11th time 
It wasn't supposed to be like next weekend as the No. 1 seed. upset. A victory over the Huskies, advance to the NCAA the nation's top team. was going
this. 
This was going to be the year Tournament and host the first to position the Irish as a legiti­two rounds, then a couple of mate national title contender. 
Notre Dame finally beat Connecticut, ili; archrival, for the wins later compete in the Final The perfect ending to a perfect first time in 11 trifls. The Irish Four at Philadelphia -head regular season. would win their rngular-season coach Mutfot McGraw's home­Then reality struck. 
On Saturday, Connecticut finale, clinching tlrnir first-ever town. 
Big Eai;t regular season title. Notre Dame had won 20 in a proved once again that it has an From there, the script was set: row. lt'i confidence was sky high edge on Notre Dame. For some head to thP Big East tournament and the stage was set for the reason. no matter the team's 

ST. GABRIEL'S YOUTH RETREAT CENTER, SHELTER ISLAND, NY 
Select all... 


A job defining the future of e-business 
A chance to create user experiences for over 35 million people 
No office politics 
More resources than 007 
A dress code that allows everything but bunny slippers 

Freedom and flexibility. At PeopleSoft, they're more than words Come visit us on your campus! on a page. After all, e-buslness Is being redefined on a dally basis. So Info Session: Wednesday, March 1st from 7:00 -9:00 pm nothing matters more than your creativity. Fact Is, we're looking for Alumni Room -Morris Inn people who can drive change, and have fun doing It. We want to give Interview Sessions: Tllursday, March 2nd, all day. you the chance lo shine -then get out of your way. Of course, It helps Location To Be Determined. knowing that when you have a big Idea, we have the resources to help Please check with the Career Center for specifics. It grow. See for yourself. We're looking for Associate Technical 
U.S. c!Uzenshlp and permanent residency are required. PeopleSoft Is committed toConsultants (throughout the U.S. In the Midwest and Northeast workforce diversity. Quallfled appllcants wUI receive consideration without regard to areas). PeopleSoft boasts the best consulting training program In the age, race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation or national ortg1o. We Invite all 
e-commerce Industry! 
applicants to conffdentlally self-Identify wile~ applytng. 

We are Interested In meeting students with the following skllls: profi­cient programming skills In at least 2 languages (C/C++/Java/ Visual Basic); Web dev. exp, In HTML, XML, ASP and/or COM/DCOM; under­
P,fORtf" 

Applications for eBusiness'
standing of relational databases (Oracle, SQL server) w/exp. In SQL; OS exp. w/UNIX or NT; very strong communlcatlon, organlzatlonal and 
;j_;;;;~;xc"! 
www.peoplesoft.com

analytlcal skills; outrageous customer service skllls. 
records, the Huskies alwavs finds a way to ruin Notre Dame·•s hopes. Just like Ron Powlus always !teemed to find the most inopportune time to throw an interception, Geno Auriemma's team always deflates the Irish 
bandwagon. 
Maybe the crowd, the 16,295 fanatics in the Hartford Civic Center, chanting the annoying "U-C-O-N-N. 


UConn!, Tim Casey UConn!, UConnl" rat­
tled the sports writer Irish. Jt was a far differ­ent world than the one-third full Joyce Center. 
All the simulated noise from loudspeakers during practices can't adequately prepare a team for the atmosphere in the Civic Center. 
Maybe it wa<; a lack of confi­dence, of not truly believing they could win. The Irish may have ' won 20 in a row, the nation's longest winning streak, but no matter how many wins they get over Providence or Villanova or any other second-tier Big Ea'it team. they still hadn't beaten the Huskies. Granted, their 78-74 overtime victory over Rutgers gave the Irish a boost. But results lead to confidence. And the truth was that they still had never beaten UConn. 
"I thought we panicked and were intimidated." said McGraw. "I thought we were past the intimidation stage; that was the most discouraging thing." 
Maybe it was the depth of the Huskies. Their starting lineup is solid, but not any better than the Irish's first five. From six to 10, though, the Huskies have an edge over any team in the coun­try. Connecticut is two-deep at every position. Its star, last sea­son's Big East Player of the Year, Svetlana Abrosimova, shot 1-for­7 from the field for five point<; on Saturday, fouling out with 6:47 remaining. Yet the Huskies had the luxury of replacing her with one of four former first-team All­American high school players off the bench, including 1999 Big Williams. 

It became clear on Saturday that the margin of error for the Irish is smaller than for other top teams. Notre Dame can't afford for Ruth Riley to play just seven minutes, shoot four times from the field and foul out with nearly seven minutes to play. If the Irish don't receive a strong effort from their three stars -Riley. shoot­ing guard Alicia Ratay, and point guard Niele Ivey -it'll be tough to contend with the Connecticut<; and Tennessees of the world. Flashback to a year ago March when Ivey went down with an ACL injury in the Big East semifi­nals against Rutgers and you'll find our why. 
"When you play only seven players, and only two of them play well," McGraw said. "you aren't going to beat No. 1." 
Nevertheiess. the Irish proved that they have the talent to com­pete for a national title. That can't be said.of many other teams in the country. Despite Riley's sub-par performance, an uncharacteristic 22 turnovers and shooting a dismal 40 percent from the field, the Irish were only down six, 58-52, with 4:46 left. 
When you've got the best cen­
ter in the country, a talentfld, 
veteran point guard. a shooter ­
who can quickly reduce a lead 
(see the Rutgers game), and sev­
eral other players who are con­
tent to fill roles, there's a shot. 
Up to this point in the season. 

everything was perfect -or at 
least close to perfect. 
After winning 20 straight, 
maybe the Irish were becoming a 
bit complacent. 
Not anymore. Not after 

Saturday at least. 
Now the Irish have a week to 

regroup before heading to 
Storrs, Conn .. for the Big East 
tournament. 
Hound 1 went to Connecticut. 

But the fight's not over. The two 
teams could meet again a week 
from Tuesday on Connecticut's 
home floor for the Big East 
championship. There may even 
be a third encounter sometime in 
the NCAA tournament. 
The script may have been 

altered, but it's far from ruined. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthr, author and not necessarily those ofThe 

Monday, February 28, 2000 

Heavy weights pound into semifinals 
stands. Pfit>ffer bided his tinw

. Favorites avoid 
until Pepek was forred into a upsets, advance to corner, then used an early combo to end the fight.
semifinals 
In the last fight of the divi­sion. Josh "The Sandman" By BILL HART Thompson advancecl to the Spc,m Writer semifinals with a victory ovrr Kurt Kurple. Thompson's longer rPach. combined with Quartufinal Bengal Rout his steady use of combinations, 
action continued late into allowed him to take an earlySunday ev,rning at the Joyce advantage in the round and Center, as the odds-on never let go.favorites in the hen.vier weight classes took to the ring to 
180-pound division 

defend their high seeding. 
Despite the loss of defendingWhile Sunday's bouts did not 
champion Mike Homanchek,providP mur.h in the way of who sits out with a shoulder

upsets. hard-hitting action 
injury, a wealth of l!XpPrience

proved to be the tone of the 
dominates most. of' the 180­

night. 
pouncl bracket. Top seed Joey "Soda Pop"175-pound division Leniski found his lirst stop en 
Top seed Tom "The Tulsa route to the division rrown to Homber" Biolchini got off' to a be a major roadblock, earning quick start toward a third title, a split decision viclory over knocking clown Paul "Beast of Stanford sophomore Keith the East" Riley just more than Arnold. Arnold used a strong a minute into the first round. second round to even the bout The favorite kept Riley on the up before a viscous set of·com­
-
defensive by keeping him on binations by his opponent put the ropes with left-right combi­the fight away. 
nations before the referee Leniski's next opponent will called off the fight. be fellow senior Doug Bartels. Biolchini's victory was paced who defeated Kyle Smith in 
a 

by three other heavyweight split decision. Bartels came out contenders for the division strong early in the bout, using crown, Senior Tom Dietrich his power and reach to over­tore into classmate Chris come Smith's jabs and agility. 
Viasnoras, keeping him off bal­Smith gathered his second ance while evading multiple wind to mount a comeback roundabout punches. Enough early in the third round, but of Viasnoras' punches connect­the punches ran out of steam 
ed to keep the outcome in just before the final bell. doubt until late, when a flurry Alumni sophomore Tom of Dietrich's punches forced DeSplinter, considered a top his opponent into the ropes. contender for the weight 
"J haven't boxed a lot with crown, advanced to the semifi­

Dietrich," Biolchini said about nals with a unanimous decision his next opponent. "I know victory over Keough freshman he's a really good athlete, and Chris Prill. Despite defeating a really nice guy." senior Jeff Welsh in Friday's 
Junior Steve "The Angry Pirate" Pfeiffer knocked out sophomore William "My Right is Bigger
In the most heavily anticipat­preliminaries, Prill was unable 

ed fight of the division, Steve to overcome DeSplinter's Than My Left" Pepek in the third round. 
"The Angry Pirate" Pfeiffer aggressiveness, resulting in a 
sophomore Bobby Kennedy On the other side of the divi­came back from a difficult first
knocked down William Pepek knockdown midway through 1:10 into the second round sion, Sorin sophomore Jason round to earn a split decision
20 seconds into the third 
the third round. 

with his second knockdown of Rodriguez defeated Morrissey against senior Greg Joseph.
round. Keough sophomore Mark the night. freshman Gavin Hagens 29 Joseph's roundabouts and
With a raucous crowd wav­Criniti earned the final spot of 

seconds into the third round. quick movements kept Healy
ing a Jolly Roger flag in the the bracket, knocking off Dillon 
Rodriguez successfully staved off guard until late in the sec­
190-pound division 
off multiple comebacks by the ond round, when the victor
Senior Mike Hammes earned 
newcomer with multiple left took advantage of steady
the only bye of the weight 
jabs until the referee stopped fatigue.
class, but has experience as 
the fight. On the other side, Adam will
well as alertness on his side for 
Dillon sophomore Kevin face a challenge in senior
Tuesday's bout. 
Brandl rounded out the brack­Alumni resident Jonathon
After losing in the finals last 
et for Pentzien, who
season, Hammes will face off 
Tuesday, dispatched
against Keough Hall freshman 'Td sparred with Tom
overpowering graduate stu­
Chris Pearsall, who opened his 
Morrissey [Herrity] many times, so I dent Steve
Bengal Bouts career with an impressive unanimous decision freshman knew what to expect." Pratico early 
Patrick in the second 
over senior Tom Herrity. 
Otlewski for round to end
According to Pearsall, the rela­
Chris Pearsall
the split deci­the night's
tive lack of experience didn't 
sion. 190-pound division winner action.
affect his game plan. 
After forc­After forcing
''I'd sparred with Tom many 
ing Otlewski an r.arly
times," he said. "So I knew 
into corners for most of the knockdown in the first round,
what to expect. I think at this 
bout, Brandl staved oft' one late Pratico had trouble dealing
stage of the game, few have 
comeback to the cheers of the with Pcntzien's right after the
that much more experience 
Big Hect crowd. first break.
than others. People arc fight­
"It was, quite honestly, a

ing more on stamina and spir­
blur," Pentzien said about the

it. .. 200-pound division 
intermission.

i\s for Tuesday, Pearsall The last bracket of the night 
"They just kept telling me to

knows that Hammes will pro­featured two walkovers, as throw oul my right and stay
vide an imposing challenge. junior captain the heck away from his left."
"I know that he has to be Peter Hyan and graduate stu­
Despite the victory. Pentzien

pretty good to earn the top dent Dan Adam advanced to 
has no illusions about thr, task

seed," he said. "I actually opposite sides of the semifi­
ahead of him.

dicln't expect to be lighting in nals. /\dam's opponent, Chris 
"Adam's got a great right,"

this division. I lost a couple of Craylor was forced out due to a 
he said. "It's probably even 

LIZ LANG/The Observer pounds heading into the bouts. shoulder injury. 
greater than Pentzicn's left.

Senior Joe "Layth Down The Smacketh" Kippels advanced to But l'Vfl reached my goal. and Hyan will take his first steps 
He's 6-foot-4 and got a great

anything after this is just into the ring to face off against
the semifinals with a split decision victory over Ryan "The 
reach, It's going to be a chal­

gravy." sophomore Joe llealy, who
Rhino" Hernandez. 
lenge." 



Monday, February 28, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish knock off Nittany Lions in home opener 
By STEPHEN KEPPEL Sporrs Wrirer 
Th1\ Notre Dame mrn's lacrossr. IP.till lookrd imprrs­siv,i in its home opPnr.r Sunday as it dt>rf'att>d PPnn Stale. 10-4. 
Aftnr a slow first half. thr Irish atlaC'k came oul and bltiw away tlw Nittany Lions with livr, straight l{nals in the third p1iriod. Following the S<'.Oring barragP, Notre Damp nPvrff looked back and it continued to play ,veil both offr.nsively and d,,fcnsivrly for tiw rest of the game. 
Saturday's game was th!'i third straight year Notre Dame opnnrd against Penn State, and NotrP Dame now has won two of tlw last three. 
This was an important win for thr Irish in making their claim as one of the nation's top trams. 
"This was a big win brrnuso wr WNP. down in the first ha.If. It was nice for us to comr bar.k and get tho first win or the soason." said junior Tom Glattel. 
"This ra.tes very w.-11 as a first gamr'." hr.ad roach KPvin Corrigan addPd. "It took a lot of' poisr to romf' ba1·k likr that in tlw sc('()nd half'." 
Tlw Irish attark had a lot of opportunitir,s in thn first half but thnir shots were not find­inl{ tlw goal. 
Thr dri'l'nse playr.d wf'II, but tlw I\Jittanv Lions found a few hol,, s in the fi rs t ha If an d srnrrd three straight goals to 
put them up 3-1. 
Down by two latfl in the first half, the Irish attack decidf'd to get .in gear and live up to their explosive reputation. It was a goal by Glatzel with 1 :30 left that sparked the Irish to go on an 8-0 run to put the gamp out of rPach. 
"We just started hitting our shots and thnt was the differ­ence in tlrn game. In the first half, we just didn't make thP.m and in the second half we finally took advantage of them." said Glatzel. 
"We just put the ball in goal the second half," Corrigan added. "We had a bunch of guys working hard out there." 
The highlight of the contP-st was thc balanced attack of the Notre Dame offense. which spread out 10 goals among eight different players. The offense as an entire unit playP.d well. The expuience and unselfishness of the Irish made the difference. 
"This year it seems like morn of a team. We all pluy together and everyone is a year older," snid Glntzcl. "Everyone can score insttrnd ofjust a few peo­ple." 
It wasn·t just the offense that camp. out strong in the third period; the defonse stepped it up as well. After letting up three goals in the first half' junior goalie Kirk Howell turned things around later by playing tough when it r.ounted. Howell ended the afternoon ·with a r.arcer-high 18 saves. 
"We have a lot of people that 


can contribute and we have to shot at us going undefeated," Notre Dame plays the first of have that to be successful," Glatzel added. "We have a three-straight road games next said Corrigan. good team and we have what it Saturday when it takes on 
"I think there's a pretty good takes to win." Pennsylvania. 



ourt 
~ormer I<RA member speaking fi,r peace Irelan~. 
Monday, February 28th $1 at the door 

7:30 p.m. Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
www.nd.edu/~sub 




page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 28, 2000 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Notre Drone falls to top-ranked Connecticut, 77-59 

Shamrock Eyes-are pa.rt cl ttitJ g,owiny hl.m:ly Q1 Wdr1Eyes ··contAC1 Len,;os. 
Eye exams available by appoinment. 

BASKETBALL •

Ten IS 
vs. #11 Syracuse 9:00pm :a.a. Wednesday
VARSITY SliOP 

vs. # 11 Northwestern 4:00pm
Wednesday .... 
Eck Tennis Pavilion 


By KERRY SMITH 
Assistant Sporrs Editor 
The Irish learned a valuable lesson Saturday: 25 minutes of good play may be guod enough to heat some teams. but not the No. 1 team in the nation 
The top-ranked Connecticut Huskies secured the regular season Big East title and proved why they are the tournamPnt favorite with a 77-59 win over the No. 5 Irish in Hartford. Conn. 
The Irish loss snapped Notre Dame's record-breaking 20­game win streak and erased any hope for the first perfer.t conferenre-recor<l season for head coach '.vluffct McGraw's squad. 
Playing its final contest of the regular season, the Irish drop to 24-3 overall and 15-1 in the Big East 
The Irish looked intimidated in the opening minutes of the half and then collapsed with four minutes remaining in the second. In bl'!tween they mus­tered a solid display of basket­ball skills but it wasn't enough. 
"We didn't come ready to play," said Irish center Ruth Riley. "They got out to a great start with an 8-0 lead and we didn't have the aggressive men­tality that we needed." 
The Huskies came out ready 
to play in front of a sold-out 
home crowd at the Hartford 
Civic Center. Connecticut's Shea 
Ralph led the Huskies from the 
opening tip. The guard knocked 
in six of her squad's eight 
points, running up an 8-0 lead 
to begin the half. Those opening 
points gave the Huskies the lead 
and although the Irish came 
close. they were never able to 
take the Husky advantage away. 
Before the game, the Irish 
were concentrating on three 
things: limiting turnovers. 
breaking the press and keeping 
center Ruth Rilev out of foul 
trouble. Despite a. great effort 
from guards Alicia Ratay and 
Niele Ivey, who led the team 
with 17 points apiece, the Irish 
could do none of those things. 
Notre Dame struggled early on 
both ends of the court. 
A frustrated Irish squad gave 
the ball up 11 times in 14 min­
utes and ended the game with 
24 turnovers. 
The Irish also had trouble 

breaking the Huskies' patented 
press -a weapon they've used 
to bring down teams all season. 
"We had a little trouble with 
the press early on," said Riley. 
"It took a lot for us to get past it. 
but once we did break it a cou­
ple of times things were a little 
easier 
With a swarming defense in 

the paint. the Huskies also kept Riley in r:hcck. The junior All­American candidate scored onlv four points on the afternoon, far less than lwr average of 16. 
Tough offense moves by the Husky forwards forced Riley into two early fouls that senL her to the bench for most of the first hall'. She later fouled out with a less lhan seven minules left to go in the sr.r(md half. 
The Huskies took advantage lhlev's absenr.c on the court. Driving with the ball in the lane, the Huskies out.scored the Irish. 40-24. in the paint. 
The Irish had trouble putting the ball in the net, shooting just 28 percent from the floor in the first half, helping t.he Iluskies to a 14-point halftime edge, B-19. 
With the opening minutes of the second half came a seem­ingly differnnt Irish squad. Freshman guard Hatay convert­ed a jump shot for a 3-point play and knorked in a shot from behind the arc, putting the Irish within eight. 
But the Huskies were too good to let the Irish get close. The two squads traded baskets for most of thi: ser,ond half, when the Irish cut lhe lead by a cou­pl.e baskets the lluskies coun­tered with a run of their own. 
Finding themselves dowp by 16 midway through the second half, the Irish went on a 9-0 run to trail by j.ust seven with 11 minutes to play. 
The Irish made things inter­esting again when they pulled to within six with four minutes left on the clor,k. 


Connecticut's in the program's history. 
The Irish will possibly have a chance to avenge their loss next weekend when they travel back to Connecticut for the Big East tournament in Storrs. 


Sue Bird ir,ed the Husky win when she scored nine points in her squad's 15-7 run in the final minutes of the contest. 
"Their point guard Sue Bird really just took over in the last r,ouple minutes," said Hiley. 
"She kept coming down and scoring and we couldn't find an answer for that." 
The loss marks the 11th time that the Huskies have beaten the Irish. Notre Dame has never been able pull off a win against 


Walmart Vision Center Walmart Vision Center 
conveniently located off grape road 3701 Portage Rd. 316 Indian Ridge Rd. Mishawaka, IN South Bend, IN 243-9714 243-7538 
MEN'S Women's 
r -----------­

TOM KEELEY
FOURTH AND INCHES 

BILL AMEND
Fox TROT 
Monday, February 28, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
JEFF BEAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 

beam.1@ndedu 
OUKJSillAmero/Oilt.b\!UniwtsalPrlSS;Mlee 
THERE. THAT'S

DAN6. THE P1cTuRE'S 
BETTER.

ALL SNOWY. 
\

' 

oNE oF THESE WINTERS I'M <:,01NG To MAICE 
MOM iAISE THE 
THERMOSTAT. 
' 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

2000 BIGEASTMen-'s Basketball Tournament March 8 -11 Madison Square Garden Student Tournament packages on sale Feb. 29 -March 3 6ate 1 Ticket Windows $40studentpackage 
Men's Basketball vs. Syracuse 
March 1 9:00pm 6ate 11 will open at 7:30pm Nationally televised on ESPN Green M.O.B. shirts are a must Wear 'em!!!!!!!!!! 

HOROSCOPE 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2000 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Bernadette Peters, Mario Andretti, Gavin Macleod, Elisa Fior­illo, Dorothy Straiten 
Happy Birthday: You will be. ready to go the ·distance this year in order to get ahead. Nothing will be cut-and-dried, and it will be unusual and exciting. You won't do anything in a haphazard manner. Your drive and stamina will he! p you to face and conquer any challenges you face. Your intent will be to improve your lifestyle. Your numbers: 19, 22, 26, 30, 36,44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Fam­ily discussions may get out of hand. Be sure to think before you act, and refrain from jumping to conclusions. Your best interests will involve learning. 00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Do not get involved in joint financial investments. It is best to take it easy, as overexertion is likely and will result in minor illness if you push yourself to the limit. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your ability to find out secret information will help you in business today. Research your projects well and be prep~ to get what you want from supenors. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Opportunities to present your ideas for work efficiency will be well­received. You will find that cowork­ers will aid you in your plea for bet­ter conditions. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Someone in your home environment will be difficult to get along with today. Your emotions will be unstable if you con­front the situations athand. 00000 
EUGENIA LAST 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl 22): You can catch up if you do a little run­ning about today. Plan and organize in order to accomplish the most. Deal with the needs of children and older relatives. 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You may have difficulties relating to co­workers or bosses. Do not become involved in gossip that could make you look bad. 0000 
SCORPIO {Ocl 23-Nov. 21): Your mate may be a bit unpredictable today. Be ready and willing to listen to his or her pleas. Your ability to help others find solutions to their problems will be appreciated. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your secretive nature may get on the nerves of your Jover. Do not promise more than you can deliver at work, or a poor reputation will 
result.000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Visit friends who have been confined or ailing. Tend to the needs of older members of your family. Be sure to . look over your hidden assets and update the necessary, important 
papers.000 AQUARIUS Oan. 20-Feb. 18): Be 
secretive about your professional 
intentions. Colleagues may mislead 
you. Take time to talk to those who 
have been observing issues from a 
different perspective. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Resi­
dential moves will pay off. Do nbt 
hesitate to make sudden changes 
regarding your friends. Educatio~ 
pursuits will be a growing expen• 
ence and improve your self-image. 
00 

Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, emotional and full of energy. You have the driving force that can lead to success as long as you don't let your stub­born nature hold you back. You're aggressive, curious and into everything. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) e2000 Univenal Press Syndicate 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Smokes 5 Sandbar 
10 Con game 14 Aboard a ship 15 Primary blood 
carrier 16 Quiz option 17 Atlanta 
landmark #1 20 August meteor shower 21 Strong fishing 
nets 22 "You here" 23 Tiny scissors 
cut 24 Bill Clinton's 
number two 28 Pillow covering 29 Ooh and 32 French 
revolutionary Jean Paul 
33 Unwanted e-mail 34 Gumbo pods 35 Atlanta landmark #2 38 Front-page stuff 39 Walk nervously 40 J.R.'s mother, on "Dallas" 41 Hosp. workers 42 Similar to 43 They hold 27-Down 44 Jaywalker's punishment 45 Dernier (last word) 46 Large African expanse 
49 Area including Turkey and Israel 
54 Atlanta landmark #3 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
J A  I R  M A  X O A D O A F I U N E A T E N 0 L Y E -...:....:~A.:.,  
-=+-,,,+,,.,.+-,,-i --~;..;.i..;;;..  
-:-t=il..•1-:,+.-:+:::+::,-t  
1 N a U I R E GYRATES  

56 "This_ my day!" 57 Not glossy 58 Peace proponent 59 Flagmaker Betsy 60 Hardly the macho type 61 Captain Hook's helper 
DOWN 
1 "Li'I Abner'' cartoonist 2 Psychiatrist's response 
3 Neutral or first 4 Small pouches 5 Lampoon 6 Throng of people 
7 Smeltery materials 8 Chowed down 9 Washington or Irving 10 Subway handhold 11 Stage workers 
12 ''The Clan of the Cave Bear'' author 
13 "Amazin"' team 18 Vigorous 19 Barber's job 23 Barber's job 
24 Modify 
25 Less plausible, as an excuse 26 Gets bigger 27 Galley 
propellers 28 Ginger or cinnamon 


Puzzle by Trip Payne 
29 James Bond's "A View to 30 Bandleader Shaw 31 Grant's successor 33 Venom carrier 34 Norway's capital 36 Ready to fight 37 Bring back on staff 42 Milan money 43 Comedian Ullman 

44 Lowdown 50 Extremities 45 Popular mints 
51 Molecule part 
46 Move a muscle 52 Golfer47 Mock words of Ballesterosunderstanding 53 Branch site 

48 Coop group 49 Butterfly snarers 55 Mai 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95<t per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 


Huskies prevail 
Ruth Riley and the Irish were unable tu overcome turnovers andfoul trouble in a loss to the top-ranked Huskies.
PORTS 
pages 23 & 26 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Hurricanes blow past Irish late in game 
• Notre Dame squandersgolden opportunity; poor execution leads to demise 
Bv BRIAN KESSLER Sports Editor 
MTAMT, Fla. 
The Irish bench stood in shock as the Hurricane!:> celebrated. Freshman Ivan Kartelo pondered his fist against his forehead after a foolish foul. Troy Murphy pulled his jersey over his head in disappointment and squatted on the court. 
The Notre Dame men's 
Notre Dame 52
basketball team talked a lot about opportunities Miami 55 over the past few weeks. It was obvious from their reactions that the Irish knew they let one slip away Saturday. 
With Miami's leading scorer Johnny Hemsley on the bench due to a suspension and '.\/otre Dame pumped for a game with postseason implications. this Big East show­down was there for the taking. However. it was the !lurricanes !18-9, 11-3) that slipped past the lrish (16-12. 7-7) with a 55-52 vir:to­rv at the Miami Arena. 
· "It's obviously disappointing on our part," head coarh Matt Doherty said. "We had a nice opportunity with Hemsley being out. It made for an ugly game early. They struggled with­out him and they are so good defensively that we had problems scoring. But eventually we started to execute our stuff. got some nice looks and built a nice lead." 
Despite having more turnovers (16) than field goal attempts (15) in the first half. the Irish managed to take a 28-22 lead at the break. Miami took twice as many shots in the first 20 minutes and played solid defense, holding the Big East's leading scorer Murphy to just two shots and six points. 
"There aren't many better defensive teams in the country than Miami," Doherty said. "They're all good athletes. They're long. They're strong. They play hard. You think you're open, but then there is a hand in your 
see MIAMI/page 22 


Mario Bland blocks Troy Murphy as he goes up for a shot in Saturday's 55-52 loss to Miami. Murphy finished with 14 points and 
10 rebounds. 

• Notre Dame's NCAA Tournament hopes fading fast following loss to Miami 
MIAMI. Fla. 
A dejected Troy Murphy sat on the floor at half-court of Miami Arena. his hands on his head and his sweat-drPnclwd jersey pulled over his face. 
"I was just thinking about the wasted opportunity," Murphy said. "It would have bren a big win for us. I thought we had a golden opportu­nity here to win. to comn down and play against Miami without their best player." 
Murphy knew the Irish (16-12. 7-71 had slippnd up on one of their final chances to win their way into the NCAA Tournament by losing a three-point hcart-breakP.r against the Miami Hurricanes (18-9, 11-3) in the closing seconds, 
"This was a very, very important game for both teams," Miami coach Leonard Hamilton said. "If we were going to win this game. Notre Dame was not going to give it to us." 
Miami, tied for second place in the Big East. played without leading scorer Johnny Hemsley, who rode the bench for disciplinary reasons. His absence opened things up for the Irish, who have struggled on the road, losing nine of 12. 
"We had a nice opportunity with Hemsley being out," Notre Dame head coach Matt Doherty said. "It made for a lovely game early. We got a nice lead. and then we didn't execute down the stretch, and that's disap­pointing because we've really worked on that and stressed it." ­
But a 12-point Notre Dame lead early in the second half waned when Miami hit three 3­point shots in a row. Turnovers again came to haunt the Irish. as they gave the ball up 22 

see NCAA/page 20 
Upsets abound in 155-pound division quarterfinals 
Skinny Ginnea" Vuolo in the By KERRY SMITH BENGAL semifinals on Tuesday. Vuolo's 
Assistant Sports Editor 

aggressive boxing earned him 
a unanimous decision over 
Some of the top seeds in the Donald "Diaper Daddy" Doan. 155-pound division faltered in Vuolo used his height and the quarterfinal action Mehan had trouble landing his reach advantage well. over­Sunday, leaving a wide open combinatirms earlv in the first powering Doan for three fight for the championship round. but made·up for it in rounds. 
titles. the second and third rounds. No. 2 Jeff "The Pittsburgh 
Paul "Ile-Man" alternating right jabs Kid" Dobosh showed why he is Mehan pulled See Also with powerful combi­a contender for the title with a off one of the nations to earn his unanimous decision over chal­
biggest upsets Bengal Bouts coverage place in the semifinal 1enge r Billy "Sweet Pea" when he earnC'd round. Mehan McMurtin. 
BOUTS .., 
pages 21 & 24

a split decision advanced to Sunday's Dobosh was aggressive from 
over favorite competition after the opening bell. forcing Travis "The beating Kenneth McMurtie into two standing­Only Time I Get Hit On 1s rn "Mack Attack Papes" in the eight counts before the end of the Hing" Alexander in the preliminaries Friday. 155-pound weight division. Mchan will face Robert "The see 155/page 16 

vs. Syracuse Baseball vs. Michigan Stare 
at Pennsylvania

Wednesday, 9 p.m. vs. Wake Forest ~· Friday, 7:05 p.m. 
' 

~~ Saturday, 1 p.m.
SPORTS • at Minneapolis, Minn. ~ 
Friday, 12:15 p.m. 
vs. Northwestern

ATA Softball at Big East Tournamenc 
~) Wednesday, 4 p.m. at Pacific Coast Doubles 
vs. Tennessee Storrs, Conn. 
~I La Jolla, Calif. ~ , 
Saturday, noon Sunday-Tuesday, TBA 
GLANCE 

Friday-Sunday 




