
No Angelic Performance 
Voting Power 
Mooie critic Gunder Kehoe writes that the new 
Get-out-the-vote efforts and media coverage 
Thursday
film "Charlie's Angels" is a poor Hollywood 
may have been factors in the increased voter 
remake ofan old lelevision show. 
turnout in Tuesday's elections. 
NOVEMBER 9, 
Scene . page 15 
News . page 11 
2000 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIV NO. 52 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Vote recount continues in Florida 
. Officials say • Students blast 
results may come hasjy _predictions 
by 5 p.m. today by TV networks 
Associated Press 

By HELENA PAYNE 
News Writer 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. Florida ufiicials began recount­

Several Notre Dame studentsing nearly 6 million ballots compared the 2000 presidential
Wednesday to determine the next elections to a prolonged specta­president. while Democrats and 
tor sport and said the media 
some voters complained of elec­made hasty predictions about thetion irregularities. Partial results 
winner of Florida's electoralshowed Al Gore cutting into 
votes.
George W. Bush's lead. 
"I went to sleep crying
The recount in all 67 counties 

because I thought [Republican
was triggered by state law candidate Governor George]because Republican Bush led 
Bush won, but I was happy to seeDemocrat Gore bv less than one­that they are definitely making
half of 1 per-· 
sure who the winner is and I'm 
centage point. See Also still hopeful that [DemocraticState officials 
candidate Vice President Al]
said they expect "Ballots 
Gore will win," said Lisa
to finish by the 
confuse some 

Demidovich, vice president of the
end of the day 
voters" College Democrats.
Thursday. 
Demidovich said that the televi­
Florida elec­

sion networks made many
tions supervisors page 6 assumptions about the winner of
also waited for 
various states too early.
an undeter­
"I think it was pretty prema­
mined number of overseas ballots, ture," said Demidovich.
primarily from military personnel College Republicans treasurer
and their families. The state 
Trip Foley said that he and otherallows 10 days after the election Republican Party supporters fol­for the ballots to come in. 
lowed the election Tuesday
The state counted about 2,300 evening, but doubted the earlyoverseas ballots in the 1996 elec­evening announcements by newstion -more than the margin sep­

anchors that Gore had won
arating Gore and Bush this. time Florida.
-so there is a remote possibility "We knew that the media had
that those ballots alone could 
called it too early and that it waschange the outcome. 
close and we are still confidentThe Florida totals, including all that Bush will win," said Foley.
absenter ballots received so far, 
The constant updates and
showed Bush with 2,909,135 votes changing information made someand Gore with 2,907,351 -a dif­students question the accuracy ofference of 1,784 in a state with the political contest. Sophomore8.75 million registered voters. 
Irene Onyeagbako said that sheAfter 28 of Florida's 67 counties AFP Photo wasn't convinced that the net­
were recounted Wednesday, Gore Vice President Al Gore offers a statement during a press conference Wednesday, while Sen. 
works' predicted election results
Joe Lieberman listens. Gore said he won't make any predictions about his contest with 
see FLORIDA/page 6 George W. Bush but rather await the results from the vote recount ptaking place in Florida. see STUDENTS/page 4 

NEWS ANALYSIS 


Bush-Gore race prompts electoral college concerns 
By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY 
News Editor 
The inaguration of a President who did not win the greatest number of popular votes is a distinct possibility this January, according to some Notre Dame and Saini Mary's government professors. If Texas Governor George W. Bush, who will most likely lose the popular vote, carries the toss-up state of Florda, he will win the electoral college by a margin of at least 271 to 260 and become the third presi­dent in history to be elected in a divided contest. 
The nation has only witnessed two such elections in history, first in 1876 when Ruteherford Hayes defeated Samuel Tilden by one electoral vote despite losing the popular vote, and again in 1888 when Grover Cleveland carried the popular vote but lost the electoral college to Benjamin Harrison. The only son of a for­mer president ever to be elected presi­dent himself, John Quincy Adams, won neither the electoral nor popular vote in1824. but was given the presidency by the House of Representatives when his opponent Andrew Jackson also did not earn enough electoral votes to win. 
Sean Savage, associate professor of political science at Saint Mary's, said the chances are as high as one in three that Bush will become the fourth president to be elected without winning the popular vote. 
Christina Wolbrecht, assistant professor 
''.At the end of the day, it takes a great deal ofsupport to amend the Constitution." 
Christina Wolbrecht government professor 
of government at Notre Dame. said the race is definitely tight. 
"It is among the closest races, certainly in the 20th century and even for all 200­some years," she said. 
But both Savage and Wolbrecht said that a Bush election without the largest number of popular votes would not neces­sarily signal the end of the electoral col­lege. 
"In order to end the electoral college, we would need to amend the Constitution," said Savage. who noted that the amendment process is never easy. "It seems to me more so than in any other time in our history, public opinion and election officials would aggressively challenge the electoral college," 
Wolbrecht explained that for an amendment to become part of the Constitution, it must pass both houses of Congress by a two-thirds majority before being sent to state legislatures for ratifica­tion. 
"At the end of the day, it takes a great deal of support to revise the Constitution. We don't do that very often, so I think tho 
see COLLEGE/page 4 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A woman's place 
As I stood Tuesday night in the packed Grand Hyatt in New York City with other staff members, interns, and supporters of Hillary Rodham Clinton, a roar of approval and cheers sounded when the official announce­ment came that the First Lady had won the elec­Colleen tion to become the first 
McCarthy 
woman to serve as a 
senator from New York. 
Associate
But I wasn't cheering 
just as a staff member News Editor 
because I had worked 
for the campaign this 
summer for three months and the week 
before the election. It went deeper than that. 
I was cheering because I was witnessing 
another woman assuming her "place" in the 
Senate. 
The election of Hillary Rodham Clinton as 
the first First Lady to run for and subsequent­
ly win a political office signaled another 
breakthrough for women, just as the election 
of three other women to the Senate did on 
Tuesday. 
Everylime a woman is elected to political office, it is a giant step forward for women. It is a step toward making all issues women's issues. ll is a step toward having Congress rencct the demographics of America, where women outnumber men. It is a step toward electing a woman president or vice president of the U.S. Although resistance still exists surrounding the idea of women holding politi­cal office, strides have been made. 
To understand how far we have come, think about this: of the 27 women who have served in the Senate, before 1992, only 15 had reached the office through election. The others, beginning with Rebecca Felton in 1922, were appointed to the seat after their husband died or appointed to till a vacancy of a dead senator. 
I left Mrs. Clinton's victory celebration 1111ed with optimism. It was inspirational and moving to see the look in her eyes and the elation she surely felt as after years of watch­ing her husband run for office, she was assuming her rightful place in the political world as New York's senator. It seems to me that slowly. with every woman who is elected to the Senate. the "Old Boys Club" that has been the Senate will be forced to change. This election cycle bring the total of women in the Senate to 12. 
As women, we need to continue to do our part to support women candidates who we believe in. What better way could there be to ensure that our interests are represented than to elect one of our own -one who understands our needs as mothers, sisters, working women. and housewives? 
Rebecca Felton. the first woman to serve in the Senate would have been proud Tuesday night of all the women who were elected to office. She promised her male col­leagues that more women would follow her and she was right. She said, "When the women of the country come in and sit with you. though there may be but a very few in the next few years. I pledge to you that you will get the ability, you will get integrity of purpose, you will get exalted patriotism. and you will get unstinted usefulness." 

Her words ring true as all the women serv­ing in the Senate and those elected Tuesday continue to demonstrate strong leadership. 
A clear message has been sent to the men of the Senate to open up the doors and let women assume their rightful place. 
The views expressed in the Inside Columfl are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Viewpoint 
Jason McFarley Patrick Otlewski 
Kiflin Turner 

Scene 
Courtney Boyle 
Matt Nania 
Sports 
Graphics 
Kerry Smith 
Dana Mangnuson 
Noah Armstader 



Lab Tech 
Ernesto Lacayo 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friuay except during exam and vacacion .~riod,'i. The Observer Is a member ofthe As.odated Pm,. All ,tproduciion right> a,c reserved. 
The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, November 9, 2000 
THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 
Thursday Friday 

. 
Concert: Fall Choral . Hockey: ND vs Boston Concert, 7:30 p.m .. Little College, 7 p.m. Joyce Theatre Center Fieldhouse 

. 
Movie: The original . Concert: The "Shaft," 10:30 p.m., Undertones present "Big DeBartolo 155 Men on Campus," 8 p.m., 


O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Compiled from U-Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 


Boston University students back third party 
BOSTON 

When she cast it Tuesday. Megan Blanck-Weiss thought her vote wouldn't matter. !11 fact. the candi­date she voted for is not even the candidate she hoped would win. 
Rlanck-Weiss said while she cast her vote for Green Party candidate Ralph Nader, she actually believes Democratic candidate Vice President Al Gore is the man best lit to be the next president of the United States. With the major parties so close on so many issues. however. Blanck-Weiss said she voted to help bring third­party diversity to the next election. 
"I support the Green Party as a third party," she said. "I think the two major parties arc becoming too close." 
Freshman Blanck-Weiss was 
UNIVERSITY OF ILLIN0IS 
Palestinian rally ends in conflict 
Students for Palestine released 150 black helium-filed balloons Tuesday to commemorate lives lost in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. But a rally meant to promote peace again became a standoff between the 30 Palestinian supporters and the 10 Israeli supporters, who arrived shortly after the balloons were released. Though pleased with the turnout and the message of the speakers. rally organizer Ammar Nayfeh said the event did not go exactly as planned. In the end, only 10 or 15 names were read. The Israeli supporters, whose goal is Jewish solidarity, arrived at the rally with their own signs and llags. Sophomore Michael Frazin said the organization came out to show its support for Israel's right to defend its land. "We have to come out here every time [Palestinian students] have a rally because we can't let them spread their lies without giving people our story," Frazin said. "They claim there's a situation where Israelis are slaughtering innocent civilians, but the truth is the Palestinians have an armed militia that uses children as a cover." 

LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWealher t6recast for da)1ime conditions :mo high 1L,111JCr.llures 
Friday! Saturqay 
Sund,y 
Mond~y 
r' 
r 


Q,~-~9.~Q. ~u 
Sflowers T-s/rJrms Rain Flurries Soow Ice SUflilY Pl. Cloudy Clnudy 
V.111 Associated Press GraphicsNei 

"I saw Nader last night," said junior Elizabeth Daza. "He con-



PENNSYLVANIA STATE UNIVERSITY 
Students hold death penalty protest 
Pennsylvania State University students held signs and chanted in protest of the death penalty Tuesday after­noon. "Why do we kill people who kill people to show that killing people is wrong." read one of the many signs carried by protesters. Members of Penn State clubs and chapters including Pax Christi, Amnesty International, American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), Students for Life and other on and off-campus religious organizations participated in the event. The protest was in response to the scheduled execution of Daniel Saranchak, who murdered his grandmother and uncle. Saranchak was scheduled to be executed by lethal injection yesterday at the State Correctional Institution. Vice President of ACLU Courtney Kirschner and other organizations represented held a vigil yesterday in front of Rockview prison in memory of Saranchak. "We're having a peaceful candlelight to remember the dead and those who have died at the hands of the state," said Douglas Grane, Amnesty International chapter president. 

NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather<t forecast for noon, Thursday, Nov. 9. 
FRONTS: 
..........,.. ...... .,,....,.. 
COl.0 WARM STATIONARY 

P{ffJU~: ® © D High Low Showen W.~•M•!Dd~  D Rein  D T-,tm-m•  D F'lurrlec  D Snow  D Ice  Sunnv  Pt. Cloudy  C'°udy  
Atlanta Baltimore Bos1on Chicago Houston  68 62 52 47 66  44 54 44 39 48  las Vegas MempMis Milwaukee New York Philadelphia  57 53 43 60 63  38 37 37 52 53  Por11and 48 Sacramento 54 St Louis 47 Tampa 84 Washington DC 65  37 41 34 65 56  

Saturday 

. 
Movie: "Topsy Turvy," 9 p.m., Annenberg Auditorium 

. 
Play: Dylan Thomas' "Under Milk Wood," 8 p.m., Little Theatre 



vinced me [to vote for him!. I felt inspired by the fact that people care about making government for the people again." 
Daza said she doesn't sec her vote taking anything away from Gore because of his expected victory in Massachusetts. She did say she would like to see Nader get at least 5 percent of the vote, and thus qualify his party for federal funding in 2004. however. 
"I don't expect him to be presi­dent." Daza said. "I just think it's good that he inspires us to revolt against what is wrong." 
Some students discounted the presence of a third party though. despite not particularly liking what either major party candidate offered. 
Sunday 
. 
Exhibition: ND men's basketball vs. International Select, 1 p.m., Joyce Center 

. 
Football: Interhall Championships, 11 a.m., 


12:30 p.m .. Notre Dame Stadium 

Thursday, November 9, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Trustees to discuss Saint Mary's future 
By MOLLY McVOY 
Saint Mary's Editor 
The future plans of Saint Mary's will be the main topic of discussion as the Board of Trustees meet today and Friday al the College. 
According to Marilou Eld red. the College's presi­dent, there will be two major topics ct iscussed in the two­day meeting. 
The first will be presented by Mary Regan. a member of the education department, and Sister Louisita Welsh, who works in the cenler for mission at the College. Welsh 
"They are going to 

and Regan will and concerns to present the describe where we the Board over progress of the the next few
are and ask the

College's strate­days to make
board for input on

gic planning. their reserva­
"They arc enrollement and tions known. going to describe The iloard
marketing.,,

where we are will meet with and ask the several students Board for input Marilou Eldred to discuss stu­on enr o II men t Saint Mary's president den L life in gcn­
discussion. 

"I will do an overview and then the Board will have an opportunity to speak directly Lo the committee hcads,'' Regan said. 
In addition to the strategic planning, the Buard will be introduced lo the develop­ment consultants the College has hired, Hentz, Whaley and Flessner out of Minneapolis, according to Eldred. The firm is a fundraising consulting firm and will be offering the College advice on their fundraising efforts. 
Students also said they 
expect to bring 
their opinions 
and marketing," Eldred said. 
The strategic planning for the College is a comprehen­sive plan for Saint Mary's for the next five years. 
"We 're working on a strategic plan for the College that will position us for the next five years," Regan said. 
The plan involves develop­ing committees on curricu­lum, student development, technology, diversity and marketing, according to Regan. 
The session with the Board will be an informational ses­sion, but also a session for 

e r al and the growth of Saint Mary's pride, in particular. 
"We're going to talk to the Board about some athletics," said senior Emily Koelsch, better known as the Belles' mascot. "Representatives from the cheerleaders, other Belle mascots and porn porn squad will also be there," 
The students will discuss current student issues in addition to the topics of pride week and security on campus. 
"Our basic job is to tell them what's going on cam­pus," Koelsch said. 
STUDENT SENATE 

Proposal may ban studying abroad 
. Amendment could ground SUB reps, senators 
By LAURA ROMPF Assi,rant New., Edi tor 
Although Stanford Hall resi­dent Curt Roberts will go to Australia in approximately two months, he has spent this se1i1cster as an active member of the student senate. An amendment brought to the floor in Wednesday night's sen­ate meeting could prevent future senators and other members of the student union from following in Hoberts' foot­steps. 
The amendment would attempt to keep students who study abroad for a semester from serving in student go,orn­mcnt during the year they arc scheduled to travel. 
"I am not arguing against this n,mendmcnt for personn,J rea­sons because it won't affect mv term," Hoberts said. "llowevc/, 1 feel excluding people who arc going to study abroad from serving on the senate ,\ill hurt the body as a whole." 
Hoberts said passing the amendment could result in a heavy amount of underclass­men on the senate because typ­ically juniors go abroad and seniors move off campus. This would cause representation in the senate to be unbalanced. 
"I don't think there will be enough benefits to outweigh the costs of passing this amend­ment." Roberts said. 
Pasquerilla West senator Audra Iliggins is chair of the oversight committee which pro­posed the amendment. Higgins said people who commit to a student union oflice should hold the job as a priority and going abroad prohibits them from performing to the best of their ability. 

"You say you want to do a job and by virtue of the office you are representing the student body," lliggins said. "Why would you say you are up to doing a job when you wouldn't be here for all or the term?" 
Higgins said when new sena­tors return in January to fill in for members who go abroad, the disruption is nearly impos­sible to work around. Roberts, however. disagreed. 
"People that go to Notre Dame arc very bright. People can pick up very quickly what we do in here. it is not brain surgery," he said. 
Roberts also noted Notre Dame sends more students abroad then any other universi­ty and programs like Washington D.C. are especially attractive to government stu­dents who also have an interest in serving the student union. 
"If someone is serious about running for ofiice and is honest in telling students they are going abroad, then I feel they are effectively representing the people," Roberts said. 
Liz Efta, director of program­ming for the Student Union Board (SUB). explained to the senate that SUB consists of five executive board members and around 30 other people. The five executive officers are appointed to serve from April 1 of one year to March 31 of the next and usually one of those members are abroad when they are appointed. 
"I don't know how senate works. but I know how the Student Union Board works and it is not a big deal if someone is abroad when they are appoint­ed to an executive office," Efta said. 
Efta said SUB members would be excluded from service in both their junior and senior years if the amendment was passed. "You will be excluding people from service to the Student Union Board for an entire four semesters," she said. 
Badin Hall senator Shannon Bennett will also be leaving in Jaunuary to study abroad. 
"When I ran in Badin with Susie [Schaab I. we ran as a team. Susie has been going to committee meetings and has attended senate a couple times. I don't think she will have any trouble representing the stu­dents when the time comes," Bennett said. 
Townrds the end of' the meet­ing, student body president Brian O'Donoghue informed Higgins that the student union constitution already states that anyone serving in an office must hold the position for the entire year. Higgins said more emphasis needs to be put on this clause of the constitution. 
However St. Edward's sena­tor Seth Whetzel said the sen­ate should not determine what activities a student can partic­ipate in. 
"College is a fleeting time, and many students want to take advantage of as many opportunities as possible," Whetzel said. "l think too much emphasis is being put upon the words of the constitution, rather than the spirit." 
Some senators suggested offices such as student body president and vice president should be specified in the amendment, so that students could not run for those offices if they would not be present for the entire term. After a lengthy debate, the senate sent the amendment back to committee for further review. 
In other senate news: 
. Katie Bufalino, a member of the committee on academic affairs, said a resolution will be on the floor next week propos­ing a new study days schedule for 2001. Currently the Academic Council has arranged for two study days followed by two days of finals, then one study day and three days of finals. The senate's new sched­ule will be the normal four study days followed by five exam days. 
"If you emphasize that past practice is needed for consis­tency and relate consistency and past practice to productivi­ty. I think the faculty will vote favorably [for the new sched­ule]" said faculty senate liason Stuart Greene. 
. Lewis Hall senator Luciana Reali presented the senate with a proposal to the student well­ness advisory board regarding a healthy living guide for incoming first year students. Reali proposed a packet be sent to all incoming freshmen to help them deal with balancing academic responsibilites along with social and extracurricular activities. 
Reali also informed the sen­ate that focus groups are being formed to investigate first year orientation. Freshman class council officers will meet with representatives from their dorm to discuss this year's freshman orientation and possi­ble changes for the future. 

121 ~..rth NUfsaA.1!9noo Sotlln ~nd'., lft®ln:1 46-817 



page 4 The Observer . NEWS Thursday, November 9, 2000 


College 
continued from page 1 
chances would be slight." she said. "You need a lot of support for an amendment, and I'm not sure that it's necessarily going to be there." 
Both professors 

agreed that a split election would have little effect on the new president's ability to successfully conduct foreign policy. 
"I don't think 

il's going lo affect Bush things much internationally," said Savage. "This person is the President of the United States, regardless of bow narrow his victory was." 
Instead, the bigger throat to the new administration's legitimacy comes in terms of dealing with the Congress. which may become influen­tial as several seats will change hands in January. Legislators, who often view the results of a presidential cam­paign as a mandate from the people dictating the government's direction for the next four years. might be less influenced by the outcome in the case of a split vote. 
..The Hepublicans in each house are going to be more likely to keep their distance from George W. Bush as president because they know he could be a political liability back in their home states when they run for re­election," said Savage. "There's always going to be this big question about his legitimacy politically." 
Hut Americans can expect the result of the electoral vote to stand. even if widespread discontent with the out­come ensues, said Wolbrecht. 
"The fact of the matter is that we have certain rules about how elec­tions arc run in this country," she said. 
Ultimately, the presidential race has come down to the state of Florida. which Bush won by just over 1,200 votes in the first ballot-counting. The votes are now being rncounted as required by Florida law in any elec­tion with a margin of victory of 0.5 percent or less. 
Concerns have been raised about the security of the ballots in Florida. where Bush's brother Jeb is the gov­ernor. 
Both campaigns have sent digni­
taries to repre­

sent them ­He publican James Baker and Democrat W a r r e n Christopher ­during the recount. But despitrl the Bush 
Gore family's connec­
tions in Florida, citizens have little to worry about regarding ballot fraud, said Wolbrecht. 
"In this day and age, it'd be a tough thing to do," said Wolbrer.ht, noting that Florida's state district attorney, who is responsible for supervising the recount, is Democratic candidate Al Gore's campaign manager in the state. 
Florida Secretary of State Katherine Harris has said that the recount should be complete by 5 p.m. today. The election may or may not be decided at that time, depending on the number of absentee ballots which have not yet been received from vot­ers abroad and the margin between Bush and Gore. 
The overseas absentee ballots, which are primarily from personnel serving in the U.S. military, are expected to go primarily for Bush. 
Other concerns about confusing Florida ballots, in which several senior citizens claim they mistakenly voted for Reform Party candidate Pat Buchanan. have not yet been resolved. 
Regardless of the outcome. America can expect a peaceful transition of power. 
"Gore has already said that if IBush wins the electoral college]. he's fully ready to concecde and recognize IBush! as the president," said Wolbrecht. 

Students 
continued from page 1 
were reported efficiently. 
"They barely had accu­
rate exit poll results," said 
Onyeagbako. 

Senior Tonio Buonassisi 
said he was keeping track 
of the results on the 
Internet by looking at 
CNN and the New York 
Times web sites, but he 
soon became frustrated 
with trying to separate 
the actual results from 
the media's often faulty 
speculation. 

"It was almost like a game," said Buonassisi. "They were jumping the gun in a lot of states with­out mathematical certain­ty." 
Onyeagbako said the election was reminiscent of a Notre Dame football game and she kept chang­ing channels to keep up with the latest "play-by­play" information on both candidates. 
"The whole screen was filled with red at the beginning just like the Nebraska game," said Onyeagbako of Tuesday evening when Bush gained a considerable amount of votes from the south and Midwest regions of the nation. 
Senior Irish football team co-captain Grant Irons said the compar­isons of the election to a spectator sport are valid and that he was excited for the outcome. 
"It ·s overtime right now," said Irons. 
However, as excited as he was. Irons said he was unable to vote because he never received his absen­tee ballot from his home 

THE 28th ANNUAL 

SAINT MARY1S COLLEGE 

Madrigal Dinners 
Fri. & Sat., Dec. 1 & 2 at 7 pm Sun., Dec. 3 at 2 & 7 pm Regina North Lounge 
Madrigal singers from the Saint Mary's College choirs, along with 


-f!t­
period instruments, jugglers, a jester and a Master ofthe House entertain 


SAINT 
200 patrons per performanceduring a feast fit for a king. MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN

For tickets call: 219/284-4625 






Earn $20/hr! 
MCAT MCAT · MCAT MCAT 
' . 

St'ill u,ait'ing for that k'iller test score to bring in some cash? 
Here's your chance! Call 1-888-581-8378 or _ email info.chicago@review.corn Tlie 
for a teaching position today1  (_f!_inCefOn  
Review  
www.review.com  1.888.581.8378  

state of Texas. 

"I felt hurt. I felt like I 
didn't have a voice." said 
Irons. 

Irons, however is the resident of a state that was overwhelmingly for Bush, unlike in Florida where the winner of the state will likely win by a small margin. Still, offi­cials remain uncertain as to the precise number of votes that either Gore or Bush have. 
''I'm glad that it hinges upon Florida which is a very diverse state," said Demidovich. 
Senior Joe Napolitano, a Florida resident, said that he regrets his decision to vote for the Green Party candidate Ralph Nader. 
"I feel really guilty being a Nader supporter," Florida about the election. 
"It wasn't clear whether they were voting for Gore or Buchanan," said White of some Florida voters who were puzzled about ballots on which Buchanan and Gore's names were possibly switched. 
"Now they basically just don't know what to expect," said White. 
The anxiety of waiting for election results is not new to either Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. There were problems when it came to counting the votes in both schools' stu­dent body president elec­tions last year. 
"It just goes to show that once again Notre Dame is once again ahead of the times." said 

s a i d "What an amazing student Napolitano. body presi­
time to be a student 
Napolitano dent Brian
voter. This has been 
said he O'Donoghue decided to remarkable to in jest. vote for However,
watch."
N a d e r w h e n because he O'Donoghue was trying Brian O'Donoghue and student to vote student body president body vice 
based on his conscience. However, he said that he never realized that the election would be so close in his state. 
"I assumed that [Florida] would lean to Gore," said Napolitano. 
He said that he will be "more practical" in the future because he doesn't think the nation is ready to change the two-party system. 
Another Florida resi­dent. sophomore Christian White said that he talked to his parents Wednesday and reporting that there was a lot of confusion in 
president 
B r o o k c Norton waited for the results of the election last year along with the other candidates. it caused sim­ilar emotions that stu­dents have about the national presidential elec­tion. O'Donoghue said that the current election situation proves that the individual is extremely important in the electoral system. 
"What an amazing time to be a student voter," said O'Donoghuc. "This is history right now. This has been remarkable to watch." 






ATION 
Thursday, November 9, 2000 COMPILED I;ROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Quake hits Panama City: A 6.2-mag­nitudc earthquake centered in northeast Colombia damagecl a hospital and police sta­tion Wednesday across the border in Panama, civil defense officials said. The qunke was centered near the remote Colombian town of Jurado, 300 miles northeast of Bogota, and was fell across the border in Panama. No damage or injuries were reported in Colombia. But the quake did cause cracks in a hospital and police station in Boca de Cupe, an Indian village. 
Former police chief faces charges: 
A pro-democracy police chief' serving as an interior minister in Serbia's transitional gov­ernment on Wednesday Lrought charges against former Prrsid(mt Slobodan Miloscvic's head of' security. Stevan Nikcevic, one of three officials who share the post of interior minis­ter, said he had initiated a lawsuit in a Belgrade district court against security chief Rade Markovic. 


NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Ashcroft loses to deceased Carnahan: Republican John Ashcroft fought back tears Wednesday as he conceded the Senate election to the !ale Gov. Mel Carnahan and opened the way for Carnahan's widow to assume the seat. "I hope the outcome of this election is a comfort to Mrs. Carnahan," he said. "Missouri is a compassionate state and, I think. in a very special way, they have demon­strated their compassion," said Ashcroft, sur­rounded by his family and two dozen support­ers at his suburban St. Louis headquarters. 
Fired stockbroker charged in killing: Virginia police were searching Wednesday for a fired stockbroker accused of returning to the office and killing the manager who dismissed him. Joseph Ludlam. 36. report­edly was fired a month ago from First Union Securities because of discrepancies in his accounts and aggressive trading practices. Police say he returned to the brokerage Tuesday morning and killed Timothy O'Shaughnessy, 40. 

INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Death penalty under review: A state commission studying the fairness of Indiana's death penalty law is now seeking the public's input after four months of examining the issue. The Criminal Law Study Commission isn't finished with its review, but its members decided it was time to ask the public for their thoughts on the issue, said state Sen. Bill Alexa, D-Valparaiso, who heads the panel. 
Market Watch 11 /8 
Dow 

10,907.06 -45.12 
]ONES 
CompositeSame: ~:
UIE· Volume:
1, 63 538 
~1J NIA 
AMEX: 920.63 .·· f+l.53 Nasdaq: 3231.70 -184.09 NYSE: 661.80 .·.·. ;-.,1.72 
S&P 500: 1409.28 -22.59 TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE MICROSOFT CORI' (MSFT) -1. )0 -1.06 (/J.44 WORLDCOM INC (WCOM) ·) 23 -0.93 16.94 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -6.60 -J.75 24.81 CISCO SYSTEMS (CiC01 -8.16 -4.63 :;2.12 NASDAQ 100 SHAR IQQQ) -7.82. -6.42 75.70 

Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. 
Al Gore set aside the stoic valedictory written for him by an aide and picked up the phone. George W. Bush did not take his call happily. "You don't have to get snip­py about this," Gore spat. 
The acid of their yearlong light -character assaults and name-calling, layered onto the Clinton-Gore defeat of Bush's father in 1992 -boiled over as Gore, in an underground office at the War Memorial, insisted that Florida's deci­sive 25 electoral votes remained in limbo. 
"Let me make sure I understand," protested Bush, his victory speech in hand. "You're calling me back to retract your conces­sion'?" 
Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, chastened on Election Night when it appeared Bush had lost the state, had just assured his brother it was a done deal. And the TV net­works had already declared Texas Gov. George W. Bush the 43rd president of the United States. 
"Let me explain some­thing," Gore lectured in a stony tone, "your YOUNGER brother is not the ultimate authority on this." 
The conversation, quoted to The Associated Press by two of the 20 or so people in the room with Gore and confirmed by a Bush aide, ended abruptly. 
Outside, thousands of supporters, sick from the night's roller-coaster drama, shouted "Stay and fight!" and "Recount!" 
While campaign chair­man William Dalev announced, "Our campaign continues," the vice presi­dent marched unseen from the Memorial through a side exit. Stranding dozens of friends, family and VIPs in the drizzle, he ordered his motorcade back to the hotel suite where no more than 60 minutes earlier he had telephoned his con­gratulations to Bush. 
"He's fine," said Gore's brother-in-law, Frank Hunger, on the sidewalk and looking for a ride. 
President Clinton called Gore to second his decision, praise him for a good night and note consolingly that Gore had won the nation's popular vote. 
On Wednesday, the pic­ture of morning-after confi­dence, Bush invited news photographers into the din­ing room of the Governor's Mansion as he, wife Laura, running mate Dick Cheney and Cheney's wife, Lynne, sat down to a lunch of chilled soup. 
He recalled his exchange with Gore: "I felt like I was fully prepared to go out and give a speech and thanking my supporters. I thought it was an interesting com­ment he made and listened to what he had to say and didn't have much to say." 
Gore and most of his fam­ily stayed in bed well past noon then waited out the day at a hotel across from Vanderbilt University, where years ago he enrolled in Divinity school to sort out inner conflicts over the five months he served as an Army journal­ist in Vietnam. 
GREECE 
Greek ferry victim awarded $250K 
Associated Press 
PIRAEUS 
A court awarded $250,000 Wednesday to a survivor of a ferry sinking that left at least 80 people dead, the first ruling in dozens of lawsuits against the shipping com­pany, local media said. 
Greek passenger Stathis Livieratos, 22, had sued the ferry's operator for damages from the accident in which the Express Samina struck a well-marked rocky islet and sank off the Aegean island of Paros on Sept. 26, the official Athens News Agency said. 
The company, Minoan Flying Dolphins, said it v.:ould appeal the decision. But it must deposit a check for the full amount with the court within three days as a guar­antee until the appeal procedure is completed, ANA said. The company also faces criminal charges for exposing passengers to danger. 
Dozens of lawsuits seeking com­pensation totaling more than $32.5 
million have been filed against the company by crew members, sur­vivors and relatives of those who died. 
The sinking was Greece's worst maritime disaster in 35 years. 
· On Tuesday, several coast guard officials were charged with criminal negligence in connection with the sinking. The ferry's captain, Vasilis Yiannakis, is currently in custody pending trial on charges equivalent to murder. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 9, 2000 
---_-_-_-~==-======================================================================================================= 
Florida 
Ballots confused some voters 
continued from page I 
had gained :{51 votes. 
Pinellas County, which includes St. Petersburg, will have to redo ils count because a poll worker inudverlenlly failed to run an unknown number ol' ballots through its computer Wednesday, county Supervisor of Elections Deborah Clark said. The county retracted its original announcement that Gore had gained 404 votos and Bush dropped by 61 votes in its recount. 
The scrutiny was intense because Florida and its 25 electoral votes will d1icidc the next president. In an added twist, the state's governor, Jcb Bush, is the Republican nominee's younger brother. 
"We thought it would be dose. Never in my wildest dre:arns did I ever imagine it would be this close," Jeb Bush told reporters Wednesday. 
Both Bush and Gore campaigned hard in the state and regarded it as crucial. 
Some counties completed the count Wednesday and forward­ed rcsulLs to Tallahassee for certification by Republican Secretary of State Katherine Harris and state elections director Clay Roberts, a Republican appointee. Jeb Bush said he recuscd himself. 
Although both candidates typically pick up votes in a. recount, veterans of the process said it is unusual for one side lo pick up enough votes to make a difference in the outcome. 
In each county, a county judge, the chairman of the county commission and the locul elections supervisor, recounted the votes by feeding punch cards through tabulation machines three limes. The makeup of the canvassing board is supposed to insulate the process from politics. Hobcrts said 
Two former secretaries of state -Warren Christopher for Gore and James A. Baker Ill for Bush -were heading monitor­ing teams sent to Florida on Wednesday. 
I:f,Jzj:ffl:f,Ji)1[111)1 
ND and SMC Students, Staff, Faculty take another 
g,1: . . . WMI 
Located at 2 3 and Edison next to Lula's Cafe. Phone 271-8865 Clothing and gifts, open seven days 
0 
~ 
.c 
::,
0 
·c: fi" 
,::, (D N 
LOW :Il 
.c 0
.!,! 
en
C 
::, (")::, 
:::i; <D 
~ <
ffi""
<ii ::,
co :::,student "TI ~ E "' 
C
'2 0..
Q) 
""O"' 
~ 
(D 
~
< 
0 ""O 
ol
~ cc 
C 
"' Airfares CJJ 
(D 
CD 
::, 
"' 
cc 
a
,... 
C: Eurailpasses 
Q) 
0) 
.c 
"' 
C: 
~ 
0 
(.) More Than Q) 
!.! 100 Departure Cities 
z ·c:"' 0.."' 
C 
Study Abroad 
ii 
::, Cl 
0 
""O C 0 
C: -C:•.
0 
"' 
i ..., "' student UnlV8rS8 ~ 
(/) 
IT'S YOUR WORLD. EXPLORE IT 
f 
p. 
"' 
:5 
"' 
e 
cc 
studentuniverse.com· 
800.272.9676 
+ Residents say they voted for Gore, not Buchanan 
Associated Press 
WEST PALM BEACH, Flu. 
More than 19,000 ballots were disqualified on election night in a Florida county where confusion over the punch-card voting sys­tem led to a l1ood of' complaints and a lawsuit Wednesday. 
Election officials said Wednesday that 19,120 ballots from Palm Beach County had showed votes for more than one presidential candidate. Those votes were nullified and not included in the count. 
"That total is a high number," said Palm Beach County Commissioner Carol Roberts, who is part of the canvassing board that ls conducting a recount of the presidential race. Only 3,783 voters made the 
same mistake on the U.S. Senate 
section of the ballot. 
On Wednesday, hundreds of Al Gore supporters called the coun­ty elections office. saying the punch-card ballot was so conl'us­ing they thought they may have accidentally voted for Heform Party candidate Pat Buchanan instead of Gore. 
Three people sued, seeking a new election. Lawyers for the Democratic Party said that the design of the Palm Beach County ballot is illegal and that they may ask for a re-vote. But no immediate action was taken by the party. 
In the Palm Beach County recount completed Wednesday night, Buchanan picked up 5 votes for a total of' 3,412 votes, Gore gained 751 votes for 269,696. and George W. Bush gained 108 votes for 152,954. 
"It was so hard to tell who and what you were voting for. I couldn't figure it out, and I have a doctorate," voter Eileen Klasleld said. 
Two larger counties south of' Palm Beach both had much lower Buchanan results -789 in Broward County and 561 in Miami-Dade County. In Duval County, a much more conserva­tive county in northeast Florida, only 650 Buchanan votes were cast. 
The confusion apparently arose from the way Palm Beach County's punch-card style ballot was laid out for the presidential race. Candidates arc listed in two columns, with holes down the middle between the columns, to the right or the left of e:ach candidate's name. 
The top hole was for Bush, who was listed at top left; the second hole was for Buchanan, listed at top right, and the third hole was for Gore. listed under Bush on the left. Arrows linked the names with the proper hole, but some voters feared they had missed the arrows and punched the wrong hole. 
I)iscourted ur, vJ 
November 7 -November 10 9am -9pm November 11 9am -5pm free admission open to the public, Century Center Convention Hall B 
120 South St. Joseph St., South Bend, IN 46601 
We accept VISA, MasterCard, American Express~ J. Grew credit cards, cash, and personal checks (with proper identification). 
Directions: From the North or South· St. Joseph Street is anorthbound one-way street, the continuation of Business US 31. through downtown South Bend. From the So11th, the Century Cente, is on the right side of the street next to the nver. Tt1e parking lot is on the south side ol the Center. from the North. US 31/933 becomes Main Street (one-way southbound) in downtown South Bend. Follow southbound, tum left to Jefferson, turn left lo St Joseph Street. Century Center is on the r1ght side. From the East: Indiana Toll Road 80/90 westbound, look tor South Bend E1it 77 Notre Dame. Turn right at Ille bottom ol the ramp, head southbound on US 31/933 11110 the middle of town Turn left at Jefferson Street into the Century Center parking lot 294 westbound, exit Route 12 towards Niles. Cross US 31 and St Joseph River Exit US 3l/933 to South Bend. Take a left on Jefferson Street, Century Center parking is at the end ot the street From the West: Indian~ Toll Road 80/90 eastbound, look for South Bend Exit 77 Notre Dame Turn right al the bottom of the ramp, head southbound on US 31/933 into the middle of the town, Turn left at Jefferson Street into the Century Center parking tot 294 eastbound. across the M1clugan state line, the second ex1l is marked Roule 12 Niles. Exit and tum rigllf on Roule 12. Cross US ,JI and St. Joseph River. Exit US 311933 to South Bend, Take aleft on Jefferson Street. Century Center parking 1s at the end of tile street 
Thursday, November 9, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Students discuss role of diversity on SMC campus 
By AMY GREENE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's is steadily making campus diversity a major priori­ty for the future. Diversity Committee member Mana Derakhshani approached the Board of'GovernanCf~ Wednesday for the board's input and plans on campus diversity. 
"So often people think of diversity as being a racial issue,"said student body presi­dent Crissie Renner. "11.'s impor­tant that we encourage diversity overall beyond the issues of eth­nicity and race." 
Derakhshani approached the board with the Diversity Committee's "Four Prong"plan to increase campus diversity. The !'our prongs include student recruiting and retention, hiring faculty, administration, and staff, expanding the curriculum, and campus climate. 
Some students admitted notic­ing a lack of diversity on cam­pus. 
"Coming here as an interna­tional student I did see segrega­tion by race,"said Student Diversity Board president, Akmaral Omarova. "I under­stand it is somewhat natural. but I think that once we graduate from here we should be sensitive and aware of all people,"said Omarova. 
According to Omarova, some alumnae have admitted to being unprepared for the presence of diverse groups found in everyday life after experiencing Saint Mary's. 
"The question remains though,"said Derakhshani, "What should diversity mean at Saint Mary's?" · 
Treasurer of the Student Diversity Board Kendra Klink said that "diversity should encompass not just race, but religion, sexual orientation, and individualism." 
Students also addressed cur­rent attitudes towards diversity on campus. 
Board member Kristy Sutorius added "I think there should do more urban recruiting to bring diversity. Too often here there is the 'white middle class girl who went to Catholic high school."' 
Some students proposed the idea that the availability of finan­cial aid was a probable factor in stunting campus diversity. 
"I know students that have had to leave here because of finan­cial aid,"said board member Cindy Cvengros. "We need to find a way to bring students here financially then keep them here financially." 
The Diversity Committee is searching for the best and most universal way to educate and make the student body aware about diversity on campus. 
"Perhaps we need to bring diversity into the curriculum and not just have clubs about diversi­ty. With a club only those who are interested are going to go and make the effort,"said fresh­men president, Zoe Zelazny. 

Derakhshani proposed a possi­ble general education require­ment for the future encompass­ing an aspect of diversity. The committee speculated about hav­ing a tentative "Four Prong" proposal draft in January. 
In other BOG news: 
. 
Nine chemistry students will be traveling and to San· Diego in April to participate in the National American Chemistry Society Convention. 

. 
Dalloway's dedication and grand opening is planned for Friday, November 10 at 4 p.m. 


. "Who Wants to Win $100" 
will be held in LeMans lobby on Monday, November 13, at 8:30 p.m. 
. 
The Student Diversity Board's "Cultural Potluck" is Wednesday, November 15 in the dining hall. 

. 
The BOG announced that Operation Christmas Child boxes are due Friday, November 17. 


1LB. WEDNESDAYS 
>GrJt o/2oioe ofIfB ofetfJ!J le_;~ ti/J~ Ot lt!YdtifJ... 12.99 
lqqy rli1111·y O(lt ii? fJ D!f WfJJ wi!/Jjilio/ OhO!JjO d!fle dMl:f in AfJ.rtle-tteedowntown fo(jt/J BendPf/II(j/J fJ OhfJit to fJ tenrlet fkt fJn e,(t.lf) t/,,'OI: f-oone Ot O(Jf ffBOt'fJll!f, 12 oz. olUfOA /fih?B ltlew 'tot/ NtijJ tlMl !(fAtet oflioM, too. 
QOU-nt Bi;;Ntyg BIGG~ PARFTY< 222 S. MICHIGAN•SOUTH BEND•219.234.5200 
fl COVER (WITH COWGE ID, MUST BE 21) AND LOTS OF OTHER STUFF FOR A BUCK, TOO. 222 S MICHIGAN, SOUTH BEND 219·234-5200 CAll THE HEAR11AND CONCERT & MNT UNE 219.251.2568•MOlE PIC1URE5@WWW,HEARTI.ANDSOUTHIIEND,COM 
page 8 Thursday, November 9, 2000
The Ob:.erver . CAMPUS NEWS 
McDonnell earns SMC Aquinas chair in philosophy 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Saint Mary's New, Edimr 
While llw nation waits with bait­
11rl !Jrnath to discover its new 
leader, Saint Mary's has inaugu­
rnlml a nr.w philosophical lr.ader, 
professor Kevin McDonnell. as the 
Edna and c;eorgu McMahon 
Aquinas Chair in Philosophy. 
"You may know him as a 
tr•aclwr. a prol'cssor. as a col­
kagucl, as a scholar, or as a good 
friend," said h:arcn Histau, vice 
prnsi(font of faculty at thr. Co!IP-ge, 
in lwr introductory remarks. 
The chair was endowed by .Joyce McMahon !lank, an alumna of Saint Mary's. in memory of' her parPnts and in tribute tu Thomas Aquinas, a philosopher. teacher of' the Church, and a saint. Hank has also c11<lowcd the Joycr. McMahon lla11k Aquinas Chair in Philosophy. lwld by Kt'ith Egan, a professor of' religious studit:s and the dirr.ctor of tlw CPntPr for Spirituality at the Col!(~gc. 
'Tlw nstablishmcnt of ttwse two chairs allirms and stn•ngthens lh<' acadl'rnic base of the College, whil<' it cnhanc<'s each student's ;;carch for the truth regardless of twr chosnn fipld," llank said. "I bt>lievp it will give their lives both rool'> and wings for the future." 
McDon ncll has taught at Saint Mary's since 1976. after receiving his B./\. l'rom Manhattan College, a Ph.D. from Georgetown University. and a year of post-doc­to ral study al th1\ Pontifical lnstitutn l'or Medieval Studies at the University ol'Toronto. 
"l think he is an extremely appropriate faculty member to hold the first chair in philoso­phy," Marilou Eldred, president of' Saint Mary's, said. "I would describt\ KPvin as an intellectual role model for students. I am hopeful that it will increase stu­dr.nts' interest in philosophy." 
McDon1rnll's lirst publications wern in ttw lfold of medieval philosophy and ethics. especially the thought a11d work of William of Ockham and /\quinas. 
After McDonnell began to teach a course on medical ethics at the Collcgt!, he focused his research on the areas or con­temporary bioethics and med­ical cthks. Currently, McDonnell serves on the Ethics committee at Memorial llospital in South Bend, and the Human Hights Committee of' thn Logan Center. 
This year the cast of MTV's 'The Real World' went to Africa. 
Now you can too! 
~"~ 
~~ 
Enter for a chance to win al your local Council Travel office or at counciltravel.com 

No Purchase Necessary. Opeo lo residents of U.S., balween the ages ol 18 and 35 as of 9/5/00. Void where prohibited. See agency lor Ofl,cial Rules or go 10 counciltravel.com. Sweepstakes ends 10/15100 
~--­
counciItravel. com 1-800-2COUNCIL 
Along with his classes at Saint Mary's, McDonnell also teaches medical ethics courses at tho South Bend Center for Medical Education, part of Indiana University's medical school. 
"Ile has accomplished a great deal here and has a reputation as a fine tr.aclrnr and scholar.'' Histau said. "liis work and Aquinas' work, and what (the College isl trying to do really come together." 
In her opening comments, Histau directed attention to McDonnell's newest publication, the second edition of his medical ethics casebook. "Tough Decisions," with John Freeman. 
"Contemporary intellectuals need to employ diverse methods," McDonnell said. "[They need to] mix learning with relative life experiences." 
While Aquinas was a studr.nt and follower of Aristotle's teach­ings, McDonnell explained, Aquinas diffcrr.d from the ancient philosopher with regards to reli­gion and creationist theory. 
"/\quinas reworked /\ristotle's vir.w of nature land! did not take up with those theologians [who denied evolution,]" McDonnell 
said.  
According  to  McDonnell.  
through careful  
study  of  meta­ 

McDonnell is also "He has accomplished physics and the co-editor of "A biblical scrip­
a great deal here and 
II cal th Law tures, Aquinas
has a reputation as a
Keadcr", another was able to find a medical ethics text­fine teacher and middle ground book, with John between science
scholar." 
Hobinson of thr. and religion. Johns Hopkins "Aquinas Medical Center. Karen Ristau moved among the and llobcrta Berry. vice president of faculty scien tists just as 

In honor of the inauguration. McDonnell gave a talk on /\quinas titled "Thomas /\quinas-An InteHcctuaJ's Lil'e." Aquinas should not be classified as either a theolo­gian or a philosopher, McDonnell contended. 
"I would like to suggest that he was either both or neither." McDonnell said. "More that he was a master of impure reason. reason not divorced from reli­gion," said McDonnell. 
McDonnell used a brief biogra­phy of /\quinas' life in addition to an outline of his four modes of order, to prove his point. 
Happy 20th 
he moved among 
the cultural cen­ters of the world," McDonnell said. "I le was a wurihy mcmbl'r of the company of intellectuals." 
Along with his regular classes, McDonnell's duties as Aquinas Chair include teaching a new course on "Thomas Aquinas and Natural Law," and organizing an annual symposium to further the dialogue between Aquinas' thought and contemporary philo­sophical issues. 
"I hope we can find in his life what genuine and effective intel­lectuals are all about," McDonnell said. 
120 North Matn St.  (219) 255-7737  
Mishawaka, Indiana 46544  Fax: (219) 259-9579  
~~  .......~  

Restaurant 
T.J. Laughlin 
General l\1anager Class of 1973 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 10TH 5:00 P.M. 
Acoustic Guitar, Singing, and Open Mic Karaoke At 8 p.m. 
LIVE 
Entertainment, Free Food, and Prizes 
------------------------------------, 
Thursday, November 9, 2000 The Obsen1er . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
GERMANY DENMARK 
New law targets hate crimes 
Associated Press 
REHLIN 
The German government on Wednesday approved an effort to outlaw an extreme­right party that has been compared to the Nazis and blamed for fueling an 
alarming  surge  in  hate  
crimes.  
T  h  e  

Oflicials say neo-Nazis arn becoming more violent and the number or reported anti-Semitic crimes is ris­ing. 
"Forbidding a party is one action in the fight against right-wing extremism -but not the only one," Schily said. Ile said other steps would includ<' tougher policing and possibly 
"Volksgrmrinsch aft" or national community~ a word associated with Nazi definitions of Germanncss. 
The party teaches classes in Nazi ideology lo members of its youth wing and has links to neo-Nazi Web pages on its home page, the sum­mary released Wednesday said. 
The government also said the party uses crude anti­
Cabinc.t sup­"Forbidding a party is changes in immigrant invective and ported a pro­laws on complains that "internation­
one action in the fight 
posal to ask demonstra­al Judaism" is preventing
against right-wing 
the country's tions. Germany from closing the highest court extremism -but not T h e book on its Nazi past. to ban the Cabinet's Some officials have
the only one." 
National approval expressed doubt that advo-Democratic came after . cates will br able to meet Party, the Otto Schily an over­the constitution's stringent most visible Interior Minister whelming requirements for a party 
action vet in its struggle to stem the largest resurgence of neo-Nazi activity since reunification in 1990. 
"This is a party that gen­erates violence," Interior Minister Otto Schily told reporters after the Cabinet approved the proposed ban on the party, widely known by its German initials, NPD. 
"There is an essential kin­ship between the Nazis and the NPD -and it seeks that out in politics, party colors and choice of language," Schily said. 
The NDP is politically insignificant, but Schily compared outlawing the group with the ban placed on the Nazis in 1923, when they were a small group. That ban was later lifted, however, and Hitler gained power in 1933. 
At least three people have died this year in attacks motivated by racial bias or other forms of hate. 
vote by gov-ban -and say a failed 
ernors of attempt would only Germany's 16 states to seek strengthen the NPD. Schily a ban. The upper house of said there is enough evi­
parliament is expected Friday to give its consnnt Friday. 
Less cer­tain is approval in the lower house, which won't debate the proposal for another two weeks at least. 
Schily said 
"There is an essential bnship between the Nazis and the NPD ­and it seeks that out in politics. party 
colors and choice of language . ., 
Otto Schily Interior Minister 
dence. 
Germany has banned only two other par­ties since World War 
II: a succes­sor to the Nazis in 1952 and the German Communist Party in 1956. 
Chancellor 
Denmark remembers Queen day after death 
Associated Press 
COPENHAGEN 
Red-and-white flags flew at half-staff and a carpet of cut flowers outside the royal palace in downtown Copenhagen grew larger Wednesday as Denmark mourned the death of its beloved 
Queen  Mother  
Ingrid.  
Ingrid,  a Swedish  

princess who mar­ried into Denmark'"s royalty, died Tuesday at the age of 90, sur­rounded by her three daughters ­Queen Margrethe, Princess Benedikte and former Queen Annc-l\larie of Greece -and 10 grandchildren. 
"She was a woman who cared a lot. At official dinners. she would always ask me in pri11ate how my old mother was doing. " 
Poul Nyrup Danish Prime Minister 
Guns at the main naval base in Copenhagen and on all naval ves­sels at sea fired a traditional 81­round salute. Hundreds of Danes filed past the palace, adding flow­ers and candles to a makeshift memorial that was about 16 feet long and six feet wide by morn­ing. 
Close relatives declared a mourning period until Dec. 4 and planned a private ceremony Wednesday evening at Fredensborg Castle north of the capital. where Ingrid died. 
Across the Scandinavian nation of 5.3 million people, flags flew at half-staff on homes, public build­ings and ships in mooring. 
Ingrid's body will lie in state for three days, starting Saturday, at the chapel at the parliament building to let Danes bid farewell 
to the popular dowager queen. 
The casket will be carried by a horse-drawn carriage through Copenhagen on Tuesday, then taken by train to the cathedral at Roskilde, 25 miles west of Copenhagen, the resting place of 38 Danish kings and queens. 
Ingrid will be buried next to her husband, King Frederik IX, who 
was the only daughter of Sweden's King Gustaf VI Adolf, a 
great-granddaughter  or  
England's Queen Victoria and  an  
aunt of King Carl.  

She entered Europe's oldest royal house in 1935 after she married Denmark's future King Frederik. Ingrid stepped out of the limelight after his death but remained active into old age and was patron to some 40 social wel­fare and aid organizations. 
"She was a woman who cared a lot," Prime Minister Poul Nyrup Rasmussen told The Associated Press. 
"At official dinners, she would always ask me in private how my old mother was doing. Or how elderly people in our society were doing after hearing about a debate (in parliament) on the issue," he said. 
he hopes to file the ban motion in the Federal Constitutional Court before the end of the year. 
A 7 4-page summary of the government's case cites NPD documents and party officials talking of recruiting skinheads as "political sol­diers" who will fight a "war on the streets" to restore a Gerhard Schroeder has urged Germans to take part in an "uprising of decent people." 
He planned to attend an anti-hate march in Berlin on Thursday, the anniver­sary of the Nazis' 1938 Kristallnacht pogrom and the 1989 fall of the Berlin Wall. 
Isn't it time your home gave something back to you? 
6.9%APY• 
PRIMEquity Line-of-Credit Loan Low introductory rate! 

9 e 5%APY' Even our regular rate  
0 NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION For People. Not for Profit.  is hard to beat!  
219/239-6611  www.ndfcu.org  800/522-6611  
Independent of th~ University.  

*Annua.t Percentage Rate. Property insurance is required. Not valid with any other offer. Rates subject to change. Consult a tax advisor regarding the deductibility of interest. A baHoon payment will result at maturity. After the six·month introductory period, the rate will revert lO the highest [g] ~ 
IIIUil IOllll~C
prime lending rate of the previo~s quarter. Minimum amount is $5t000. Maximum amount is $100,000. 
LENDER 
11ihl11 
died in 1972. 
Sweden's King Carl XVI Gustaf, Queen Silvia and Crown Princess Victoria and Norway's King Harald were among those planning to attend the funer­al. 
Born in Stockholm, Sweden, Ingrid 
2000-0 I Season Notre Dame Film,Television, and Theatre Presents 

by Eric Bogosian, William Finn, John Guare, Tony Kushner, Marsha Norman, Ntozake Shange, Wendy Wasserstein 
DIRECTED BY SIIRI SCOTT 
Some themes and 
language in this play 
may be offensive to 
some viewers. 

PLAYING AT  WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15  
WASHINGTON HALL  THURSDAY,  NOVEMBER 16  
RESERVED SEATS $9.  FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17  
SENIOR CITIZENS $8.  SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 18  
ALL STUDENTS $6.  SUNDAY,  NOVEMBER 19  

TICKETS ARE AVAILABtE AT THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER. 
MASTER.CAR,D AND VISA ORDERS CALL 631-8128. 
7:30 PM 7:30 PM 7:30 PM 7:30PM 2:30 PM 

page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 9, 2000 
student union 
HAPPENINGS 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Movie: Shaft and The Original Shaft 11 /9 Thursday 11/10 Friday 11 /11 Saturday 
Acousticate 11/9 Thursday 
SUB Loft Concert: Princes of Babylon 11/18 Friday 101 & 155 DeBartolo 101 & 155 DeBartolo 101 & 155 DeBartolo 
Lafortune Huddle 
Senior Bar 
1030PM Tickets: $2 0800PM & 1030PM 0S00PM & 1030PM 
0900PM-1200AM 
MISCEI..I..ANEOUSICAMPUS-WIDE 
FREE FLU SHOTS 11/9 Thursday Lafortune Dooley Room/Library 
Academic Luncheon: College of Arts and Letters 
11 /9  Thursday  
Pep Rally  
11/10  Friday  

Hockey Game: ND vs. Boston College 11/10 Friday 
Undertones present "Big Men on Campus" 11/10 Friday 
Milk Under Wood 11/10-11 /11 Friday & Saturday 
Movie: "Topsy Turvy" 11/10-11 /11 Friday & Saturday 
ND vs. Boston College 11 /11 Saturday 
ND Folk Choir Concert for the Missions 11 /11 Saturday 
SDH Hospitality Room 
JACC 
JACC 
O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Moreau Center 
Snite 
ND Stadium 
Basilica 
Shel Silverstein's "The Devil and Billy Markham" 
11 /11-11/12  Saturday & Sunday  Washington Halt  
Spanish Mass  
11/12  Sunday  Chapel of Stanford Hall  

0900-0400PM 
1200-0130PM 
0630PM 
0705PM 
0B00PM 
0B00PM 
0900PM 
0330PM 
0900PM 
0800PM 
0130PM 
HUNGER AND HOMELESSNESS AWARENESS WEEK 
Dillon Race for Hunger 11/12 Sunday behind Dillon Hall 0200PM 
Students for Clean Plates 
11/14  Tuesday  SDH and NOH  lunch time  
Hunger Banquet  
11/15  Wednesday  SDH  0715PM  
Bread for the World Letter Writing Ca mpaign meeting  
11/16  Thursday  CSC  0400PM  
World Hunger Coa lition Thanksgiving Baskets  
11 /17  Friday  Stepan  0300-0600PM  

~ 
www.nd.edu/-sub ~ 
Thursday, November 9, 2000 The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 page 11 
Efforts increase voter turnout 
Lieberman still has his Senate day job 
"Right now, he's going to go
Associated Press 
home to Washington and he'll 
obviously be in very close 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. contact, in touch with what's 
Joseph Lieberman post­going on," McLean said. poned his Connecticut victory "Things are pretty fluid." rally and headed back to Lieberman had been plan• Washington instead. He was ning to return to his home still a sen-state of Connecticut late a t o r , Wednesday for a "victory indeed just rally" in Hartford to cele­re-elected brate, if nothing else, his to a new Senate win. Aides said that six-year rally had been indefinitely term. postponed because of the 
B u t uncertainty of the general Lieberman election. was tena­Nides described Lieberman cious I y as experiencing a roller coast­pursuing er of emotions late Tuesday every detail about the recount and early Wednesday as TV process in Florida, still believ­networks declared Florida for ing he would become the first the Democrats -and then Jewish vice president and undeclared it. Vice President Al Gore would "When we won Florida the be president, aides said first time, I think there was a Wednesday. general elation that we prob­
Indeed. campaign manager ably had won the election," Thomas Nides described Nides said. "He was very Lieberman as one of the dri­excited about the idea that he ving forces behind the effort helped put Florida over the to dispute the election results top." in Florida that seemed to . Later, when the networks show Republican George W. put Florida back in the too­Bush had won the presidency. close-to-call column, "I think 
"He was the one last night the elation kind of ended who was saying as we were there, somewhat dramatical­going to concede, ... 'Wait, ly," Nides said. wait, wait, how many votes Lieberman had fought hard are there really?'" Nides said. for Florida's 25 electoral "He said, 'Isn't there an auto­votes, campaigning in the 

Asso,;;iatcd Press 
WASHINGTON 
Get-out-the-vote efforts. a bar­rage of political ads and intense media coverage were cited as explanations for increased voter participation in this year's elec­tion. 
An estimated 51 percent of Americans old enough to vote did so on Tuesday, said Curtis Gans. director of the Committee for the Study of the American Electorate. 
By comparison, the rate in 1996 was 49 percent, the lowest since 1924. In 1992. about 55 percent voted. 
Gans' figures for 2000 were based on turnout reported by The Associated Press and CNN, and include an estimated 2.4 million absentee votes uncount­ed Wednesday. He also based turnout on estimates of uncounted votes in Oregon. Alaska and Michigan. 
Gans said the higher turnout likelv was due to well-f'unded, grass-roots mobilization efforts and media coverage about the White House race between Democrat Al Gore and GOP Gov. George W. Bush of Texas. 
Still, he said. "We've got half the electorate sitting at home." 
More people voted this year in Florida, Illinois, Missouri, Michigan, Minnesota. New Hampshire and Delaware. A lot­tery on the ballot in South 
Like to write? The Observer is looking for news writers. Call 1-5323 for information. 
PR tlECT WARMTH 
Don't forget to tell your family and friends to bring theirjackets this weekend for the Boston College game! 
Bring your jacket to one of the various Project Warmth sites on campus and receive a coupon for a 25% discount on a new GEAR For Sports® jacket at the Hammes Bookstore! 

DID YOU KNOW. .... GEAR for Sports, is sponsoring acompetition among the campus residence halls, giving a cash award of $1,000 to the hall which collects the most coats per capita. 
UPPORT YOUR HALL WHILE SERVING THE LOCAL COMMUNITY! 
Carolina helped increase turnout there by about 6 per­cent from 1996. 
Turnout was down in Arizona. Kansas, Louisiana, Montana, New Mexico and other states not visited as often by the candi­dates. 
Voters said the tight presiden­tial race energized them. 
"Rottom line: everv vote mat­ters," said Home; Cason of Lebanon, Tenn., who cast his vote for Gore, who lost his home state. 
In Florida, where a recount was under 
way to deter­ing polls
"Those people who
mine which were inter­candidate didn't vote are probably vie\\ed by Voter would take kicking themselves in News Service. a 
the state's 25 consortium of
the butt because they
electoral The Associated 
votes and procrastinated in getting Press and the capture the to the polls or they used television net­White House, works.
feeble excuses for not
itlmost 51 Union mem­percent of getting there. " bers, 26 per­those eligible cent of the elec­to vote actu­torate. pre-
Bill Cowles 
ally did. That ferred Gore
Florida election supervisor
was almost 3 over Bush by percent more nearly a 2-to-1 than in 19%. margin, according to exit polls. 
"Those people who didn't vote Unions were 23 percent in 1996, are probably kicking themselves with the margin for Clinton in the butt because they pro­about the same. crastinated in getting to the In Oregon, the convenience of polls or they used feeble excuses nation's first all mail-in election for not getting there," Orange was not enough to push state County, Fla., election supervisor turnout to record levels, though Bill Cowles said. "Today they're an estimated 300,000 votes saying, 'Gee if I had gone, I remained uncounted, Gans said. 
might have made a difference."' 
In Wisconsin, turnout was 66 percent, up nearly 9 percent from 1996. Roth nominees visit­ed the state often during the campaign. 
Blacks, who account for 10 percent of the electorate, favored Gore by a margin of 9­to-1, slightly better than the vote for President Clinton in 1996, according to exit polls. The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People said it spent $9 million to increase black voter turnout. 
Voters leav­
the 
matic recount? What's the percentage? ... He was not in the camp of quickly rushing to the stage to concede." 
Lieberman, a former state attorney general. spent much of Wednesday on the phone with Rep. 
Robert Wexler, who has alleged voting irregularities in his Florida district, and with Florida's Sen. Bob Graham, pressing for details about the recount, Nides said. 
Lieberman sent his youngest daughter, 12-year­old Hana, home to Washington early Wednesday so that she could resume her school routine. He and his wife, Hadassah, planned to join her late Wednesday night. Other family members left earlier in the day. 
"Why are we going back tonight? Because he has a child at home," spokeswoman Kiki McLean said. 
It was unclear whether he would rejoin Gore in Nashville once Florida's election results were clear. 
Thu..doqs oPe sludenls night. Students Peceive 25% off meal r,.,ke w1tb IJOUP sfud~nt I.D. 
~on u£1 
Mrd.h1no•s moat unique dininq ••p•ri•nce Loc:afed 111 tl.e b.-.wffl.f ot fl.e Hisf oric t00 Ccnfcr in Misl.awab (219) 257-1792 www.lOOcenter.com 
state almost every week since August when he was selected to be Gore's running mate. Aides said he had made eight trips to Florida and spent 13 days there. 
Lieberman, the first Jew to run for national office on a major party ticket, was espe­cially popular at Florida's predominantly Jewish senior citizen residential communi­ties. 
He customarily spoke to seniors in their own familiar language, Yiddish. Even his 86-year-old mother, Marcia, has campaigneC: for him in the Sunshine State. 
At Florida Atlantic University last week, he adapted the lyrics of "New York, New York," belting out, "If we win it here, we'll win it everywhere. It's up to you Flor-id-a!" 
He was never so right. 
Lieberman ran simultane­ously for a third term to the Senate and easily won by defeating Waterbury Mayor Philip Giordano. 


VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
page 12 BSERVER Thursday, November 9, 2000 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Noire D,me. IN 46~56 024 Soud1 Dining H.,ll, Notr< Dame, [N 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EIJITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillesrie  Timbne- 
As.IT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Christine Kraly  Brian Kessler  

NEWS EDITOR: Anne Mane Mattingly V!iWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR, Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR• Amanda Greco SMNT MAIi.Y'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR, Elizabeth Lang 
ADVER'l1SINC MANAGfR: Pat Peters AD DESIGN MANAGE.R: Chris Avila S'YSTl'MS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunvi\\e Wrn AoMINIHKATOR: Adam Turner CONTROi.i.ER, Bob Woods GRAJ'HIC5 EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAi. INFo..............631-7471 FAX................................. .. ........... 631-6927 ADVERTISING ...................................631-6900/8840 
obserYad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF......................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR!Assl'. ML....... ........631-4541 BUSINESS OfflCE......... .... .. .. ............631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
obscrvcr.obsnews. \@nd.edu 
V!EWl'OINT............................................ .....631-5303 obscrver.viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS........ ............................................... 631-4543 observer.sports. I@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.sccne. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MAJty's... .........................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO.......................................................631-8767 SYSTEMs/WF.B ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visir our Web site at hrtp.·l!obmver. 11dedu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as wdl as cartoons, reviews and bre-,1king news from che Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-to-the 
minute forecasts · 
weekly scudenc reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives 10 search for 
about The Observer 
articles published afrer 
to mecr the e<lirors and 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and onlinc by ch,· students of the University of N,mc Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, induding advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of eirher institution. The Observer reserYes the right to refuse adver1isemen1s based on comenr. 
The news is reported as aa:urately and objectively as po,;sible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistanr Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, lerrcrs and columns present chc views of1hr authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free cxpre,;sion of all opinions through letters is encouraged. utters to the Editor mu,r be signed and must include con race information. 
Q~srion; rtgarding Ohsmm-poli,ies should b, dimt­rd to Editor in Chi,[ M tke Connolly. 
Last column, I addressed four objec­tions to the living wage. There arc more. I will conclude this theme by addressing the remaining objections. 
Objection five: Instituting a living wage would be imposing first wodd values on the third world. 
Reply: The compa­nies that fail to pay a living wage are first world companies. If a living wage is a first world value, then they L...-----­
are not living in accord with it. Moreover, it needs 
to be clear that 
what constitutes a living wage is mini­
mal. We are talking, for instance, about 
three changes of clothes (one for on. one for oiT being cleaned and one for special occasions like weddings). This is hardly a closet 
full. 
There is a big difference between basic needs being met by a living wage and a lifestyle of rampant consumerism. Those who articulate this objection would have you believe that the movement for a liv­ing wage is seeking second houses for workers when it is more accurately seek­ing a fourth wall for their shacks. 
Pope John Paul II has made blistering attacks on consumerism, calling it "con­trary to what is good and true to happi­ness." 1 invite anyone who might make this objection to go and live on the work­ers' wages for a month and then report back whether current wages are meeting basic needs. The charge that the living wage is a first world value implies that workers in the third world already have all that is necessary for a life of dignity. 
I have written before in critique of some of James Keady's words and work, but his Olympic Living Wage Project drives this particular point home quite well. Mr. Keady previously offered to work for Nike at Nike's third world wages and Nike declined. He then decid­ed to live on what amounted to those wages -$1.25 a day in Indonesia -for the duration of the 2000 Summer Olympics. Mr. Keady, already trim. lost 25 pounds and "spent most of the month painfully hungry and exhausted." 
Objection six: If the idea of a living wage is not an imposilion, then enforcing it through first world agents is. 
Todd David Whitmore 
The Common Good 
Reply: Contained in this objection is a legitimate consideration, though it is far from clear that the motives are pure. The legitimate consideration is this: If it could be done. it would be better for workers to achiiwe their basic needs through self­organization without pressure on compa­nies from first world organizations. The more that the workers themselves have agency, the better. When the objection comes from corporate representatives. there may be reason to be suspicious of motive. Many of the corporations make product in China, which does not recog­nize the right to organize. 
It appears that such an objection seeks to take advantage of the fact that worker organization is frequently weak in third world countries and often both subtly and violently suppressed. Low wages and weak worker organization often go hand in hand. When workers receive wages below a living wage, then they are less inclined to part with what little they receive to pay the dues necessary for there to be a worker organization. 
Catholic social doctrine affirms both a living wage and the right to organize and thus does not view the relation between them as a zero sum game. In a particular case, it might be that the best way to achieve a living wage is through worker organization alone, but that is a question of strategy, not a trade-off in principles. 
Catholic teaching puts forward a prin­ciple that helps regulate the roles of vari­ous parties in a situation of social injus­tice: the principle of subsidiarity. The core insight of this principle is that those groups or persons most proximate to a situation generally have the best read of the situation's nuances. Where possible, those most proximate are to be the pri­mary respondents. In this case it is the workers organizing themselves. 
However, the Latin root for subsidiarity means, "to support," or, "to help," and larger, more remote institutions are to help the more proximate groups do their work. In this case, first world organiza­tions can help workers organize and can sponsor living wage studies. "In extrem­is" situations can require the more remote institutions to intervene directly if the more proximate persons and groups do not have the wherewithal. 
Much depends on one's read of the sit­uation regarding the strength of the worker organizations relative to that of the manufacturers and the corporations. Any intervention must have in view the tinal goal of the living wage being addressed through the workers them­selves, even if "help" and perhaps direct intervention is necessary in the mean­
time. 
My own judgment about Notre Dame's case is that the empirical situation of imbalance between corporate and work­er strength requires the university to provide help at present. The question is that of how. Some advocates contrast "formula" and "negotiated" approaches. The former uses formulae to calculate the living wage and then demands imme­diate payment of it, the latter negotiates with the companies to raise wages. Once again, this is a false trade-olT. 
It is important to have a clear sense of what a living wage is in a particular region in order to have a mark in rela­tion to which one negotiates. thus the need for formulae. It may be important as well to work with corporations via negotiation to move towards the living wage over time. This is a matter of pru­dential judgment, and my own judgment is that negotiation with a clearly stated goal carefully calculated through formu­lae and a stated timeline for full imple­mentation of the living wage will be most effective. 
It is worth noting that if the corpora­tions followed subsidiarity, they would "help" third world countries develop their own local economies rather than impose the manufacture ol' product for the first world; the charge of imposing first world values turns on the corpora­tions at this point. 
Objection seven (final objection): But paying a living wage would disrupt the market. 
Heply: This presupposes that the status quo of the present market is the natural order of things. Corporate representa­tives cannot have it both ways: they can­not argue that their move to the third world -with its moving of whole sectors of economies from agricultural to indus­trial bases -makes things for workers incomparably better and then argue that a move to a living wage from within an industrialized economy constitutes dis­ruption. In Catholic teaching, payment of a living wage is the act that is in keeping with the natural order. 
Todd David Whitmore is an associate professor in the theology departmenl. I !is column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 

THE GAP IS LOCATED BETWEEN n.JO POINTY TUFTS OF HAIR. 
THAT MOVE ABOUT 
THE OFFICE. 
0 
0 
!;:::::;;::;;;::;::~f ----------=----..,___

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Poverty and suffering are not due to the unequal distribution ofgoods and resources, but to the unequal distribution of capitalism.,. 
Rush Limbaugh political commentator 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
Thursday, November 9, 2000 BSERVER page 13 
Pressure to get fit to fit in 
I'm not a healthy person. My idea of peak physical condition is being able to walk to DeBartolo v.rithout getting a side stitch. Back at home, this wasn't a problem. Sure, experts advocated regular exer­cise, but most people got enough physical exertion from running away from Governor Bush, who was constantly trying to execute us 
all. I, however, managed to distract little 
Georgie with a shiny object, allowing me to concentrate on my Ben & Jerry's and poor edu­cational system. This system worked out well for me and I was ready to continue my high­
cholesterol lifestyle, to live the typical pizza­eating, beer-drinking, Animal House-watching college life. But. unfortunately, this isn't any college. 
This is Notre Dame. Our Lady of the Treadmill. 
A S h"II my c 
1 
Dazed and Amused 
From the moment I arrived here, it seemed like everyone was on a health kick. My friends were constantly at one of the several exer­cise facilities (which I'm sure have names), lifting weights in the dorm or adding a nutrient supplement to their fruit smoothies. Once at confession, the priest made me say five Hail Mary's and do 30 minutes on the Ab Slide. 
Around March last year, the pressure to fit into the well-toned Notre Dame family finally got to me. Despite the fact that my previ­ous exercise experience here consisted only of wandering into Rolfs accidentally while looking for mayonnaise, I decided to launch a full-scale fitness program. My friend Allen, a guy who if you ask him to flex, pulls out his ID card and goes to the Huddle, agreed to join me. Here is an account of our program: 
Amy and Allen's Fitness Fandango Spectacular 2000. Day one: jogged around the lakes a couple of times. Day two: speed-walked to Reckers. Got some mayonnaise for the road. Spring break. The end. 
Yeah. Well, between Allen's chemistry tests and my ... napping, it was difficult to find lime to get together to work out. We still meet regularly for cheese sticks, however. 
Well. exercise just doesn't seem to be for me. I'm just going to have to find other ways to fit in. like listening to Guster and drinking a lot more. The sacrifices I make for this school. So no, despite see­ing everyone around me working out. I don't exercise, but unlike in high school. I now feel really, really guilty about it. Hey, I never said I wasn't a good Catholic. 
Amy Schill is a sophomore English major. Amy enjoys cheese and all cheese related products. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Showing courage 
Tuesday morning, I hung about 25 posters in O'Shaughnessy hall. Posters which you will never see because all but three were system­atically ripped down within hours. These posters weren't obscene. They didn't have any foul language, and they were even approved by the Student Activities office. 
They announced a lecture taking place on Thursday, Nov. 9, at 
7:30 pm in 113 DeBartolo that someone obviously doesn't want you to know about. Someone who has decided to take it upon themselves to be a censor of the University community's intellectual discussions. 
Four groups, including the Knights of Columbus whom I represent, are presenting a lecture that night by the founder of a group named Courage. What does Courage do that could be so offensive to some­one at this Catholic institution? Do they abort babies? Do they sup­port Planned Parenthood? Do they fund communist regimes or engage in devil worship? 
No. 
Courage is an organization devoted to helping people inculcate in their lives, in day-to-day experience, Catholic teachings, specifically Catholic teachings on homosexuality. It is a support group in this way, much like certain groups around Notre Dame claim to be sup­port groups. Father Harvey, itc, founder, is coming to speak on an intellectual level surpassing everyday discussion on why such groups are necessary and the great love that he has been privileged to bring to struggling gay and lesbian members of the Catholic community. 
Are you going to let someone else decide who you'll listen to on Thursday night? Why not come and see someone who offers so much compassion to so many people? 
Don't let the hate and censorship of a few blind you to new possi­bilities. Come and see what Father Harvey has to offer. 
Nathaniel Hannan 
junior Dillon Hall Nov.6, 2000 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Father Garrick writes in 
Since my difficult resignation from Notre Dame in April 1998, I have been through a lot. My reli­gious order sent me. at my request, to Los Angeles to work as a volunteer chaplain for AIDS Project lA and to look for a salaried position in academy. Although I applied to a number of uni­versities, I received no offers, probably because I am over 50 years old and have not been able to find a publisher for my book on theater and ritu­als of grief. 
In June 1999, I resigned from the Congregation of Holy Cross because the provincial felt that he could not offer me an assignment unless I could refrain from publicly identifying myself as a gay person and working as an activist for gay civil rights. He probably had little choice. This policy apparently originates with Cardinal Ratzinger in Rome. 
However, I have remained an active Catholic priest, working with Dignity -a Catholic gay organization that was expelled from the official Church by Cardinal Ratzinger in 1987 for insist­ing that gay persons who fall in love with each other must be encouraged to form a life commit­ment. Very sadly, I can no longer work with Catholics in regular Catholic settings. In the Church, a priest has no official standing unless he is connected with a religious order or a diocesan bishop -a very good rule, unless it is abused to discriminate against marginalized people. 
Since I had to have a job in order to get an apartment, I took a position with Pinkerton in September 1999 and worked as a security guard at The Tonight Show for four months. During an appearance of Robin Williams, my face was briefly visible on television in the distance over his right shoulder. I left that job (slightly above minimum wage) to do part-time teaching at a local community college near Los Angeles. 
Some Notre Dame and Saint Mary's juniors and seniors may have seen my first play, "The Escape of Kropotkin," which I staged at Notre Dame dur­ing my final semester. What I would like the readers of The Observer to know is that my new play, "A Difficult Patient" -written, produced and directed by me under my theater name of "David SteCroix" -opened in North Hollywood, Calif. on Wednesday, Oct. 25. Critics from seven weeklies and biweeklies were present, and their reviews 'hill be appearing over the next week. In the opinion of the actors and myself, the perfor­mance was outstanding. We will be running the play three days a week until Nov. 22. 
Before I could begin writing, I had to devote six solid months to research, some of it in the UCLA medical library. In the play, the year is 1973, and pressure is mounting to delete homosexuality from the official psychiatric illness list. Gay activists are confronting psychiatrists -and psy­chiatrists are angrily diagnosing each other in public. Meanwhile, Los Angeles psychologist Dr. Evelyn Hooker struggles to exorcise the angry ghost that stands between her patient and his gay lover. 
Rev. David A. Garrick 
Sylmar, Calif. 
Oct. 28, 2000 

My mother is a pretty good judge of character. She has five children and like a good mother, she recognizes that each of us is different in our own ways. There is the socialite, the radical, the ath­lete and the baby. I am the humanitarian. Well over fall break, I went with a group of 13 other Notre Dame students to New York City as a par­ticipant of the Children and Poverty seminar run by the Center for Social Concerns. We traveled to our nation's biggest city to help some of our nation's poorest children. This trip left me think­ing about my role in society. 
During the days I went ~o impoverished, crime­ridden neighborhoods and played with some of the most giving children. Marlon knew all the lyrics to all the Britney Spears songs. He is four years old and impressionable. As he sang "Lucky," the phrase, "isn't she lucky," rang through my ears. Was I not lucky to be born in white suburban America to white collar parents who could give me the opportunity to attend a college like Notre Dame? Why are not all chil­dren that lucky? 
Kassandra always had a smile on her face. She is creative and inquisitive. Though she speaks very little English. she was able to communicate to me despite the language barrier that she wanted the eye of her pumpkin to be on top of the stem rather than on its broad side like the rest of the children. If only all Americans could break down their artificial barriers. 
As the days progressed, I interacted with the 84ults involved in the various programs and organizations where we volunteered. Mr. Robs' favorite gym game is steal the bacon. Not much older than us, he is a first grade teacher in an after-school program at PS 171 in Harlem. While most of his friends wear suits and ties to work, he revels in the fact that he can still wear jeans and a T-shirt. However, while he does have fun in the gymnasium, he works hard so that the children learn in the classroom. 
Anne listens to rap. As a sociai worker in the Bronx, the children that she works with influ­enced her. Big Pun, a rapper, came from the area where her organization, UNITAS, was established, and he was a hero to many neigh­borhood children. She is currently working to find similar role models for the yoW1ger children in the community. 
So there Twas in New York City among chil­dren who needed help and adults who were mak­ing a difference. Where was my place? Participating in a smorgasbord service project like this one where there is an array of policy meetings and hands•on programs can distort one's vision. I did not spend my fall break solving the problems of inner-city violence, crime and poverty. I did not change the world. What I did change however was my way of thinking and I hope this change stays with me. In January I will be graduating from Notre Dame "'1th more than a degree in history. I will graduate knowing that I will make a conscious effort to prove my mother right. I hope to be that humanitarian. 
, 
' Colleen Murphy senior off-campus Nov. 7, 2000 

MOVIE REVIEW 
'Nicky' gets stuck in comedy hell 
By JUDE SEYMOUR Scene Movie Crirk 
Since Adam Sandler is not onlv the star of "1.ittlr Nicky" but also its co-writer and producer. there is liLtlc chance he would admit his movie is not funnv. Adam Sandlnr is too involwd in this filn1, and the wsult for "l.ittl(i Nicky" is disaster. 
Tlw plot is thin and Sandler's "Nicky" character is painfully unfunny. In fuel, he's the Ina.st funny of' the group. 

It is a rnrn instance in an "L·1ttle N·,cky" And as he tries to trap his
Adam Sandler movie, but Im brothers and save the day. 
has beNl ouqwrformrd by Nicky begins to fall in love the legions ol' cameos he has 
with Valerie (Patricia collect(id. Arquette. "Stigmata"). 
The worst elrmrnnt of The weakest character in "Nicky" may be its plot. our offive shamrocks this movie is Nicky for sev­Admitll'dly. p<'ople do not go eral reasons. Sandler is 
to Sandler movies for somc­forced tu either <lelivcr flat th ing detip. But they do Director: Steven Brill lines out his character's want more than a string of decrepit voice, or repeat a
Starring: Adam Sandler,
jokns. Sandler has done joke ad nausem (such as comedy tours; certainly that Harvey Keitel, Patricia Nicky being from "the deep could whet the appetite of' Arquette and Allen Covert south"). Also, his character's 
anyone interested in just a couple o!' laughs without any context. 
People flock to movies for ~onrnthing more. however: something that is as funny as a comedy tour but could never be cap­tured on the small stage (like punching out Bob Barker in a heated gol!' match in "llappy Gilmore"). 
In "Little Nicky," the plot will make even a Sandler aficionado wince. Nicky is the product or an alcohol induced sexual encounter between the Devil (Harvey Keitel. "Heservoir Dogs") and an angel (Heese Witherspoon, "Cruel Intentions") at a I leavnn-l lcll mixer. 
Ni<'ky has two brothers, Adrian (Hhys lf'ans. "Nntting llilr') and Cassius (Tnm Uster Jr., "Friday"), who arc both looking to take over their father's rule of I lcll. 
When the Dnvil announces that he has decided to rule for another 10,000 years, the brothers conspire to go up to earth and make a hell out of New York City. But since they go the wrong way through the soul portal. they freeze it. And since the Devil foeds off souls, he needs the brothers to come back. together, Lo free up the pas­sageway. So it is up to Nicky to complete this task and save his father from dissipat­ing into nothing. 
On earth, Nicky is guided by a talking dog (voiced b~. !lob:\~ Sm_igel..creato_r of SNL s ammat1011 skits). 
facial expressions and speech mannerisms make it impossible for Sandler to make any joke funny. 
The cameo roles are a mix or the cre­ative and the ill-planned. A cameo by Hodney Dangerfield is well received because Dangerfield always has an appeal­ing sort of humor. Ilis lines arc delivered with the customary Dang<\rlicld gusto and phrases like "I get no respect" are as funny in "Nicky" as they were when they were first spoken. 
Another cameo, by Quentin Tarantino, is well scripted and adds a few more laughs. Bit parts given to Hob Schneider ("Deuce Bigalow: Male Gigolo") and Michael McKean ("Best in Show") are a waste of' otherwise good talent, however. 
The romantic element of the film, as well as Nicky's introduction to earth, is riddled with the customary lack of attention to detail that hampers almost every Sandler film. Valerie and Nicky fall in love without exchanging one personal question or idea. And when Nicky is brought up to Earth, he does not understand urinating or how to eat food, but he understands basketball without ever playing. 
The lone bright spot in the movie is Allen Covert, who plays Nicky's gay roommate, Todd. 1 lis lines (probably written by co­writer Covert himsclO arc the main source of humor in the film. Unfortunately, his part is miniscule in comparison to Sandler's role, so the humor quickly disin­tegrates. 
Adam Sandler has proven himself a comedic talent over the last 10 years, but his movies have shown a serious lack of what it takes to make a good movie. Unless they are taped stand-up performances, movies cannot exist as a string of jokes. Even Sandler fans can admit that movies with a halfway intriguing plot are bolter than the ones that contain little substance. 
"!Jttle Nicky" went through four rewrites before New Linc agreed to produce it. From the looks of it, a little more time should have been spent in that fourth rewrite to make an enjoyable plot. Maybe showing the script to someone else would have done the trick. Any way one looks at it, it's up to Sandler to make amends for "Nicky." Perhaps by being less involved in his next picture he'll gain a better perspec­tive on what is truly funny. 
SPECIAL FEATURE 
Sandler offers candid discussion on 'Nicky,' future 
By JUDE SEYMOUR Scene Movie Critic 
CIIICAGO 
When Adam Sandler strolls through the entranceway of the pressroom, he lets out a "hey hey hey!" to the college crowd of 50 that is eagerly anticipating him. With an accompanying giggle from the attendees, he completely wipes away his l1at and unfunny 84-minute performance in "Little Nicky." 
Adam Sandler, as proven by his platinum selling CDs. has clearly mastered humor in a rehearsed act. What was in question, though, was whether or not his perfor­mance in "Nicky" reflected the "real life" Sandler: had he lost his comic touch? Over the next hour, the answer became certain: absolutely not. 
Sandler, accompanied by his longtime friend and collaborator, Allen Covert (who plays Todd in the film) answers questions about his new movie, his past successes and his promising future. Covert and Sandler bounce questions and jokes off each other back to the audience, displaying their real life personas as laid back and inviting. 

Sandler recalls how he chased his only interest in life: "When I was in college, I really wanted to be a comedian. I wasn't really interested in writing," Sandler quips. "The best thing we did (at NYUJ was to encourage each other to take chances. I started doing stuff that I thought was runny. When I was lirst on stage, no one laugh<'d. My family was like, 'Wow, they hate your guts."' 
SandlPr's big break was as a cast mem­ber and writer on "Saturday Night Live" from 1991 to 1995. After ·t995, his move into full-length movies was natural, as was the case with past "SNL" cast members. I le received a lot of support from his friends on show, and has repaid their loyalty with recurring roles in his movies. 
Some cast members, like Ellen Cleghorne, he cast in "Nicky" because he had "lost contact with her for a couple of years, and we're really good friends." Others, like Hob Schneider. he has enticed with memories of earlier successes. "I told Hob," Sandler joked. "that I remembered when I heard the biggest laughs on set, for The Waterboy,' when Rob was doing, 'You can do it'' And we were at his father's funeral. and Hob leaned in and said, 'Do you still have that hat?"' 
Sandler and Covert both acknowledge the debt that they owe to earlier great comedies like "Caddyshack," "Fast Times at Hidgemont High" and Woody Allen's movies. Sandler is "really thrilled" to hear that many college students consider his movies to be the great comedies of their generation. 
J\s for making more "great" comedies in the future, Sandler is unsure of where his plans arc taking him. "P.T. Anderson wants me to look over a script and work for him," Sandler nonchalantly remarks about working with the director ol' "Magnolia." "Quentin [Tarantino! has something for me lined up f'or the spring too so I've got all of these options." It must be tough for Sandler: after raking in $25 million for both "Big Daddy" and "Little Nicky," working with two accomplished directors like Anderson and Tarantino might not seem as glamorous. 
If he decides not to pursue either of those scriplo;, Sandler has a couple things lined up: a comedy tour and the crnation of Shnorff.corn, an Internet humorist project he and Covert are working on. 
In talking to Sandler after the question and answer session, he is both approach­able and friendly. He's interested in Notrn Dame football, and says he would "ddi­nitPly consider" a stop at Notre Dame if his comedy tour starts again. l lopd'ully, there is much more in store for such warm and funny individuals as Adam Sandler and Allen Covert. 

Thursday, November 9, 2000 page 15 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Charlie's Angels' is a no-brainer 
By GUNDER KEHOE 
Scene Muvi<: Criri.c 
With the recent failures of "The Avengers." "A Very Brady Sequel," "Sgt. Bilko" and. most notably, "Wild Wild West," one would hope that Hollywood had learned its lesson. Unfortunately, another old TV show has been force-fed to the /\nrnrican pubic in the form of "Charlie's Angels." 
"Charlie's Angels," the TV show. has been revived on TVLand, but for those who can't lit tho show in their schedule. the gist is pretty simplP: A wealthy old guy employs three sexy women to work as crime-fight­ing investigators. Together, these young pussycats dress incognito, foil villains and do all sort.'> of silly things. It sounds more like a porno story-line, only the writing is slightly better and the all-or-nothing sex has be<-n replaced by some less-exciting romance. 
The Angels. played by Cameron Diaz (Natalie), Lucy Liu (Alex), and Drew Barrymore (Dylan) leap from costume to costume in hopes of thwarting a wring of evil masterminds bent on stealing special computer software. Fortunately, the sexy trio has Bosley (Bill Murray) on their side, and his antics make their close calls ail the more daring. 
The movie doesn't connect through its 

Photo courtesy ot Golumo1a Pictures Drew Barrymore (from left), Cameron Diaz and Lucy Liu star in "Charlie's Angels," the latest Hollywood remake of an old TV show. 
story, so the usual twists and turns won't a television remake, but this screenplay leave any jaws dangling. The director, reads more like an Internet script promo­known only as McG, serves up quite a tion where every page is written by some­spectacle that delivers a bit of eve11thing, one different. Had less than 15 writers yet amounts to nothing. been able to pull off a more coherent nar-
For a movie that rative, the actors' fates brags about its girl "Charlie's Angels" might have been differ­
power. the actresses ent. don't live up to the The camera tricks hype. Sure, the Angels that made "The can do some pretty Matrix" famous have nasty Kung-Fu, but been ripped off by
out offive shamrocks 
their chemistry falls everything from car 11at. Maybe it's asking ads to Nacho Cheese too much to hope that Director: McG Doritos. Now "Charlie's 
each woman would foci Starring: Cameron Diaz, Drew Angels" is the latest like an irreplaceable inspiration.
piece of the film: but Barrymore, Lucy Liu, Luke Wilson and 
If stealing from other 
exchange any one of Bill Murray these actresses with another cute starlet and the movie wouldn't be any better or worse. 
As Alex. Lucy Liu (TV's "Ally McBeal") has the most presence. When she slips into her dominatrix leather, there isn't a man alive she couldn't slap silly. 
It's fun to watch Cameron Diaz dance in her undies, but is her cute hiney really worth $12 million dollars (her reported salary)? Diaz has a long, slender frame and it's well-suited to the martial arts, but her best karate is no match for the harsh lighting on her face. The glowing aura she donned in "There's Something About Mary" has faded and it looks like the make-up lady shot her face with a paint gun. In the \<Hong moment, her character looks less like a butt-kicking heroine than she does a heroine addict. 
Drew Barrymore ("Never Been Kissed") is the least exciting of the Angels. She lacks the exoticism of Lucy Liu and the spunk of Cameron Diaz, so she's left out as the bas­tard Angel. 
It's probably not fair to criticize when it's obvious the actresses had little to work with. No one expects brilliant ½Titing from 
movies is a sign of 
directorial talent. then McG is a bona fide genius. Maybe this is actually a clever parody of overblown action 11.icks. but that's giving Mr. McG too much credit. There comes a point when people have to finally recognize that repeated stealing is nothing more than copycat filmmaking. The director has enough tricky moves to helm an 'NSync video, but hopefully his future project is no bigger than the next McDonald's TV spot. 
Ironically, it's the men of "Charlie's Angels" who provide the saving grace. The film's funniest moment is Bill Murray's heart to heart with a funny-looking bird, but for the most part the actor is con­tained. Give another strike to McG for squandering Bill Murray and throwing away the potential for some much needed humor. And Luke Wison ("Blue Streak") is a welcome addition as Natalie's boyfriend. His effortless charm proves he's one of the more genuine young actors around. 
Of course, a production of "Charlie's Angels" or any other third-rate TV show will never be remembered past the year it opens. But why not make its short life a bit more memorable? 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Legend' is an enjoyable, old-fashioned fable 
Rules"). that a local golfer be included as 
By BILL FUSZ 
The war changes Junuh, how­well, and no local golfer is better 
Scene Movie Critic 
ever. when he is sent to com­than Junuh. 
mand Savannah's boys in The majority of the movie is 
From time to time, a movie Europe and they meet defeat at about the golf tournament and comes along that is just a joy to the hands of the Germans. A how Junuh struggles to regain watch. Some may not nominate broken man, upon his return he his golf game and bring pride to it for an Academv Award. some deserts Savannah and Adele and the town. He is assisted by two may say it's not the most innov­spends the 1920s playing poker caddies: Hardy Greaves (J. ative movie of the past year and in a drunken stupor, the Michael MoncrieO. a youthful some may even say it's slightly description of which is one of admirer of Junuh who grows up corny. But despite all that. the the film's funniest moments. to be the narrator of the film film simply cap­Adele has (Jack Lemmon), and the title tures and holds "The Legend of tough times to character, Bagger Vance (Will vour attention. face as well, Smith), a mysterious caddy who :.The Legend ol' besides appears out of nowhere and has
Bagger Vance"
Bagger Vance" Hannulph's come Lo help Junuh get his 
is such a film. 
dereliction. Her "authentic swing" back. 
Directed by father invested Incredible directing and excel­Hobert Redford all of his monev lent acting arc what lift this ("A Hivrr Huns in creating the movie above the lackluster. With 
out of five shamrocks 
Through It"), greatest golf breathtaking shots of the course "The Legelld of Director: Robert Redford course in and a knowledge of just how 
Bagger Vance" America. long to hold a shot before losing is set in Starring: Will Smith, Matt Unfortunately, the audience's interest, almost Depression Era Damon and Charlize Theron the Depression every frame displays Redford's Michael Moncrief are the film's do best. It could just as easily Savannah. made this a mastery of cinema. gems. The role of the wise men­have been about any sport or Georgia. It tells poor investnrnnt Damon and Theron both give tor and the hero-idolizing child any activity of human endeavor. the story of a hometown hero. and he committed suicide. strong, if unremarkable. perfor­could all to easily be played to For this reason, you do not need Hannulph Junuh (Matt Damon, In order to save her father's mances. The previews. which stereotypical perfection. Instead, to be a golfer or even know any­"Good Will Hunting"), who, dream. Adele announces a suggest a love story. are mis­they both deliver inspired per­thing about golf to enjoy the before World War I. won practi­grand golf tournament to fea­leading though. This is a golf formances which truly make the film. But for those who do love cally every great golf tourna­ture Bobby Jones and Walter story. With that in mind, the two film. golf, this is as fine a film as has 
ment in the South, as well as the llagen (real goll'ers, played by do an excellent job of keeping With gulf being a metaphor for ever been made about it. It may heart of Savannah's wealthiest Joel Gretsch and Bruce McGill the romance a lighthearted life. "The Legend of Bagger not be a hole-in-one. but "The heiress. Adele lnvergordon respectively), the two greatest accent to the movie. Vance" explores the relationship Legend of Bagger Vance" defi­{Charlize Theron, "Cider House living golfers. The city demands Smith and newcomer J. between people and what they nitely makes birdie. 

Thursday, November 9, 2000 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA NHL 
Cavaliers edge Knicks, 99-97 
Associ,t~d Press 
NEW YORK 
Bimbo Coles scored four of his 
17 points in the final minute 
Wednesday night as the most sur­
prising team in the NBA, the 
Cleveland Cavaliers, stayed unde­
feated with a 99-97 victory over 
the New York Knicks. 
Playing with the enthusiasm of a high school team, the Cavaliers took the lead with 4 112 minutes to play and never gave it back to improve their record to 4-0 -the first time since 1988-89 that they have started a season with four consecutive wins. 
Andre Miller and Matt IIarpring added 16 points each, Lamond Murray had 13 and Wesley Person scored 10 of his 12 in the fourth quarter. Cleveland's reserves outscored New York's 44-15. 
Allan Houston scored 25 for the 
Knicks. but he missed his final 
four shots and scored only two 
points in the fourth quarter. Glen 
Hice, starting in place of the 
injurud Latrell Sprewell (back 
spasms). added 23. 
Zydrunas llgauskas gave Cleverand a 93-90 lead by making one of two free throws with 1:23 left, and the Knicks committed their sixth turnover of the quarter on their next possession when Marcus Camby couldn't handle an entry pass. 
Coles came off a screen to hit a 
20-l'ooter with 49 seconds left for 
a live-point lead. Larry Johnson 
tipped in a miss by Ilouston with 
34 seconds left, but Coles hit two 
from the line six seconds later. 
Erick Strickland's 3-pointer with 21 sccnnds left made it a two­point game, but Andrew Miller hit a pair from the line with 12.9 sec­onds left to all but wrap it up. Hice hit ajmnper at the final buzzer. 
Nets 102, Wizards 86 
Stef)hon Marbury scored 31 poinlc; and rookie Kenyon Martin added 20 to lead the New Jersey Nets to a victorv over the Washington Wizards: 
Martin, who scored a total of 24 points in his first three NBA games, enjoyed hL'i best game as a pro. Ile shot 9-for-17 and had seven rebounds. four assists. !'our steals and three blocked shots. 
New Jersey's victory overshad­owed a career-high 30 points by 
Washington forward Richard 
Hamilton, who came oil the bench 
to hit lO of 23 shots. 
Rod Strickland had 18 points 
and six assists for the Wizards. 
who got 17 points and seven 
rebounds from Juwan Howard. 
76ers 103, Pistons 94 
Allen Iverson scored 28 points 
and Eric Snow added a career­
high 23, including 10 in the fourth 
quarter, as the unbeaten 
Philadelphia 76ers beat the 
Detroit Pistons. 
They built a 27-point lead in the second quarter and held on after Detroit rallied within a point in the fourth quarter. 
Jerry Stackhouse scored 36, 
and Chucky Atkins added 24 for 
the Pistons. 
Vernon Maxwell had 15. Tyrone Hill had 14 and Theo Ratliff added 13 for the Sixers. 
Detroit got within 79-78 after opening the fourth quarter with a 16-2 run. Stackhouse scored the last six on three jumpers from near-identical spots on the wing. 
But Iverson and Snow then took over. 
Iverson hit a free throw and drilled a 3-pointer and Snow scored on a driving layup to make it 85-78 with 6:20 left. The Pistons didn't get any closer than four the rest of the way. 
Snow had eight of the last 20 points for Philadelphia. Ile fin­ished 8-for-14, had five rebounds and four assist,;. Iverson was 10­for-21, and had eight assists. 
Mavericks 101, Grizzlies 74 
Shareef Abdur-Hahim had 22 points and 12 rebounds as Vancouver beat the Dallas Mavericks to improve tu 4-1, the Grizzlies· best start in their six­year hL<itory. 
Abdur-Hahim had eight points during a 25-3 Grizzlies spurt in the third quarter. Othella Harrington added 21 points and nine rebounds. Christian Lacttner scored 17 for the Mavericks. 
Steve Nash and Courtney Alexander had 10 points each for Dallas (3-2). 
The Grizzlies took a 54-38 half­time lead behind Abdur-Rahim's 11 points. 
Vancouver shot 62 percent in the first half while Dallas was hit­ting only 39.5 percent of its field goals. 
The Mavericks got as close as 56-45 early in the third quarter, but Vancouver answered with a 12-0 spurt capped by Harrington's basket for a 68-45 advantage. 
Vancouver finished the quarter with .its 25-3 run and took an 81­48 lead into the final quarter. 
Hornets 96, Magic 90 
David Wesley had 30 points and 
P.J. Brown scored eight of his 19 in the final four minutes to help the Charlotte I Iornets hold off the Orlando Magic. 
Brown broke a six-minute drought from the field with a short jumper and went 6-for-6 
including 28 in the second half, 

from  the foul  line  down  the  
stretch.  
Brown  also  grabbed  10  

rebounds for Charlotte, which squandered most of a 17-point fourth-quarter lead before the for­ward made two free throws to break the momentum Orlando built during a 14-2 run that cut the Magic's deficit to 83-78. 
Darrell Armstrong led Orlando with 18 points. Reserve Bo Outlaw had 16 points and 16 rebounds, while Tracy McGrady missed 11 or 16 sholc; and finished with 14 points and seven rebounds. 
Heat 87, SuperSonics 81 
Bruce Bowen hit five free throws in the final 31 seconds and Brian Grant had 30 poinl<i and a season-high 21 rebounds as the Miami Heat beat tho Seattle Supersonics. 
Eddie Jones add<1d 25 points for the I!eat. Gary Payton led Seattle with 22 poin1s. 
Patrick Ewing had 16 points and eight rebounds for the Sonics. A day 11arlicr, ho olfcrrd to donate a kidney to his close friend, Alonzo Mourning. the Heat star who is sidelined for the season by a kid­ney disease. 
Seattle scored 10 consecutive points to cut Miami's lead to 78­75 with 2:22 left in the game. Rashard Lewis, who scored 16 points, had four during the run. 
The Heat let tho Sonics come no closer, however. 
Bowen hit a pair of foul shots with 30.9 seconds left, making it 84-78. 
After Payton made a 3-pointer, Bowen had two more free throws with 17 .4 seconds to go. Bowen added a late foul shot. 
Devils fall prey to Predators in 4-3 loss 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD. N.J. Tom Fitzgerald scored with 
16.7 seconds remaining in the third period Wednesday night, spoiling the return of New Jersey goalie Martin Brodeur. as the Nashville Predators pulled out a 4-3 victory over the Devils. 
Fitzgerald poked the puck 
past Brodeur's lunging 
attempt at a glove save in the 
midst of' a goal-mouth scram­
ble. 
Cliff Ronning. David 
Legwand and Scott Walker 
also scored for Nashville, 
which ended a two-game 
winless streak. 
Steve Kelly. Sergei Nemchinov and Brian Rafalski scored for New Jersey which lost its third straight and extended its winless streak to four. 
Those who left early missed the down-to-wire excitement. 
Nemchinov scored a tide­
turning goal on a setup from 

Bobby Halik at 13:48 to set 
the stage for Hafalski to 
make amends 26 seconds 
later. 
With the Devils on the power play. Rafalski. at the point, took a pass from Patrik Elias and cut to the net to beat Vukoun from the butlom of the left circle and pull New Jersey even at 3-3. 
It appeared the Devils would reach overtime until Fitzgerald decided it in tho waning seconds. 
Canadiens 4, Panthers 2 
Brian Savage scored one of Montreal's three special­teams as the Canadiens beat the Florida Panthers 4-2, snapping a five-game losing streak. 
The Canadiens won a matchup of last-place teams by scoring twice on the power play and once while short-handed. 
Savage and Andrei Markov each scored with a man­advantage and Oleg Petrov added one with Montreal 
short-handed as the 
Canadiens earned their· first 
victory in seven road games. 
Florida, last in the 
Southeast Division, lost its 
fourth straight game and has 
just one win this season (1-6­
3-3). 
Montreal scored twice 
within a three-minute span 
of the second and third peri­
ods to open a 4-2 lead. Jim 
Campbell scored from the 
slot to make it 3-2 with 1:51 
left in the middle period, and 
Markov's goal, a blast from 
the top of the left circle, 
came just 35 seconds into the 
third. 
Florida's Miko Sillinger sent a one-timer past Jose Theodore to give the Panthers a 1-0 lead 11 :42 in. 
Montreal tied it on Savage's sixth goal of the season with 
1:33 left in the 11rst. Petrov made it 2-1 with Montreal's first short-handed goal of the season. The shot, from just inside the blue line. was the Petrov's third and the fourth short-handed goal allowed this season by the Panthers. 
Penguins 5, Flyers 2 
Alexei Kovalev scored Pittsburgh's first three goals and the Penguins, playing at home for the first time since their top players decided to overhaul their offense. beat the Philadelphia Flyers. 
Kovalev scored twice in the first period and added a third goal to make it 3-1 as the Penguins did what they couldn't do in the second round of last sflason's play­offs -beat the Flyers in Mellon Arena. 
Kovalev's hat trick was the third of his career and his first since Oct. 16, 1996, for the New York Hangers against the Penguins. 
The five goals were the most by tho Penguins in seven games and came sev­eral days after captain Jaromir Jagr called a meet­ing of the team's top two lines to suggest strategical changes to rookie coach Ivan Hlinka. 
The O6server accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right III edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST & FOUND Lost: at LaFortune  BUY/SELL ND TICKETS 273-3911 ND FOOTBALL TIX WANTED A.M. -232-2378 PM -288-2726  FOR RENT ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE  HOUSES FOR RENT 2001-2002 1 0 BEDROOMS-4 BATHS 3 KITCHENS or 5BEDROOMS 2 BATHS GREAT FRONT PORCH  Spring Break 2001 Book group of 15 and GO FREE! Book before Nov. 3 for FREE Meals! Visit us at sunsplashtours com or call for free info  WANT AVON? Call 237-1919 PERSONAL  
A men's fossil watch with a stain­less steel face and a brown leather band. The face is decorated with fossil pictures. REWARD. Please  ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE A.M. -232-2378 P.M. ­288-2726 PAYING $50 EACH  AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ email: mmmrentals@aol.com 232-2595  BOTH HOUSES HAVE WASHERS, DRYERS AND ALARM SYSTEMS CALL KRAMER 234-2436 OR CELL 27 4-1501.  @ 1-800-426-771 0 PHONE CARDS $20  High-Speed Copies, Color Copies, Binding, Fax Service, R asum as, Business Cards, Laminating & Morel At THE COPY SHOP  
call Kylie at 634-4655.  FOR ND VS. BOSTON  1558 MIN.  LaFortune Student Center Phone  
TICKETS NEEDED: ONE TICKET CALL AGNES AT 634-2369 WANTED ND FOOTBALL TKTS 289·9280  COLLEGE TICKETS. 219 289-8048 NEED TWO BOSTON COLLEGE G.A.'S. PLEASE CALL MANYARD AT 1-800-638-6963, X 6093. CALL WILL BE RETURNED ASAP. Need 5 BC !ix! Will pay good $$ Call 274-0829 2 ND/USC TIX+ AIRFARE!  HOUSE FOR LEASE 7/01 4/5 bedrm. 3 blocks to campus. 773-486-8822 That Pretty Place, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for footbalVparent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107,  WANTED YOUTH DIRECTOR needed At First United Methodist Church in S Bend. 8-12 hrs./wk. $100/wk. Call 233-9463. Ask for Dan or Jen. FOR SALE  CALL 284-5145 or 258-4805 '95 Honda Civic EX, red, moonrool, 5spd. 52kmi., $8950, call 1-6953 1993 Ford Explorer (2 door) Manual 4-wheel drive 66,000 miles  631-COPY Free Pick-Up/ Delivery! COLLEGE SCHOLARSHIPS 300,000 + private sector scholar­ships available for undergraduate and graduate students at accredit­ed colleges in the USA regardless of their GPA, finances, age or citi­zenship. Write or call for FREE information and application. Scholarship Database Service P.O. Box 432 Notre Dame, Ind. 46556-0432 1-800-936-3706  
I l__  SELLING NO FOOTBALL TKTS 251-1570 VICTORY TICTS BUY-SELL'TRADE NDFOOTSALL 232-0964 -.victorybckets.com  GOTO alumni.nd.edu/-ndc_satx A family desperately needs Boston College tickets Will pay top dollar$$$ ('277-1659 thanks!:!:. I NEED BC TIX. 272-6306.  1-800-418-9487. NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND. GREAT AREA. 277-3097. 3,4 & 6 BDRM HOMES. FURN. NOW & 2001-02. 272-6306.  #1 Spring Break 2001 iii cancun, Mazatlan, Acapulco, Jamaica, Florida & S.Padre. Reliable TWA flights. Best Prices. Earn $$$ or FREE trips-call for details! 1.800.SURFS.UP www.studentex­press.com  call: 784-8303 or 219-232-5557 Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. All new, never used, still in plastic. $235 219-862-2082  Bamyard896@hotmail.com Erin, I love you in plaid. I like red socks too. ­Luigi Are you kidding, Florida? Could we just have a president?  

page 17
Thursday, November 9, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Homosexuality is one of the most controversial topics in the
SAJllE-SE~ 
American social landscape. 
Unfortunately, public discussions of this subject often bounce between the extremes of "gay rights" on one hand and "God hates fags" biblical fundamentalism on the other. 
ATTRACTi 0 ns: 
But this needn't be the case; the Catholic Church -virtually alone in Christendom ­



teaches amessage of both real compassion and real AilD THE BEAVTY AilD hope for the men and women who live every day with some degree of same-sex attraction. 
ST~nGTH OF THE 
Our two speakers will discuss some of the aspects ofCATHOLiC TEACHiilG the lives of those who have such attractions, and the pastoral care that can be provided them, in the context of the most important consideration of all: Christ's invitation to each of us to become saints in the Kingdom of God. 
,o--"O 
Schedule 
I ,. 
"f30~PM Fr. Harvey., "The/A1J,p.ltcation of the five Goals of COURAGE:' 
8:15 PM Quesdonand Answer Period. 
8:30 PM Mr. Morrison 
·_:,::.-__ ,,.,,.,-.-.·:"'" ,-....... _ ·'•,,., 
"Same-Sex A~taction and.. Jhe ·Gall to Be Saints:' 
,,/ ,( 
,#"" ..;.,/'1-•.,,. 
~--/.:,· .? 
_<Q:J 5PM Question and Answer Period. Refreshme11ts -and reception following lecturns. 
i 
.r,f 
~/~ 

Rev. John Harvey, OSFA, STD.~ GOtJRAGE Mr. David Morrison. Aware ~this attraction to other 
. . . 
is an organization that provides spiritual supportfor men and women boys from aqbut/~ge 13, Mr. Morrison grew up a~ an isolated, angry striving to live chaste lives in accordance with the Catholic Church's adolescent who'then became a gay activistpntil hJs late twenties. pastoral teaching on homosexuality. Fr. Harvey is the founding Director Becoming qJisillusioned with the actively gayI life, he turned to God 
t-' '._ 
of this remarkably effective movement. He has written and lectured for and, later, ~he Roman Catholic Church. He Has written extensively over forty years on the pastoral care of individuals with same-sex on issues ~f fa.1th, identity, sexuality, and cultLre. Mt, Morrison is also 
attractions. He is the author of two books including The Truth About the author ~f t~e widely-read book Beyond ;t3ay (dur Sunday 
. .. J 
Homosexuality: The Cry of the Faithful (Ignatius Press, 1996). Visitor, 199~). ·· / 
t <-.l .. / ~ I ' 
'·/
-------------------........... _____. !'
·•,_....
\ '-,,~,. / /I
Offered in Cooperation with':,, ······· ..... ,-,'""'.,,,, / 
Jacques Maritain Center • Knights of &olumbus ./ 
. . --~
. ­
Schubmehl-Prein Chair Endowment• St. Thomas Mo're--Society 
Gema.Ide von Annibale Carracci, 1560-1609, Domine, quo vadis?, National Gallery, London, 
,­
t ' 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 9, 2000 
CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS 
Top players withdraw frolll 16-player singles tournrunent 
.... 
-
. Williams, Pierce, Huber sidelined with injuries 
Associ•tcd Press 
NEW YORK 
Serena Williams. French Open champion Mary Pierce and Anke Ilubcr withdrew Wednesday from the season-ending Chase Championships because of injuries. 
Taking their place in next 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used Books bought and sold -25 Cnti,goni,s of Books -25,000 Hardb.ick and Paperback books in 
stock 
-Out-of-Print scnrch service -Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesdau through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 
f f 
student i1 I Airiares l
I Eurallpasses  j  
l I Ij  MoreThan 100 Departure Cities Study Abroad  ff · !1  
I IC:• .  r  

I ~~~:u~t]!~!!!!! 1' 
i 

week's 16-player singles field at Madison Square Garden will be Sandrinc Testud, Julie Halard­Decugis and Kim Clijsters. 
Williams, who teamed with sis­ter Venus to win the doubles gold medal in the Sydney Olympics, withdrew with a foot injury. 
She was injured in August dur­ing the Canadian Open, retiring during the singles final against Martina Hingis. 
Williams also was forced her to withdraw from doubles at the 
U.S. Open in September. ''I've had this injury for a while 
r 
. rmhats
; 
11oves ­
laqest seledion 
onlyat _;_:_ .~ 
~~ 
s ors
Campus Cu O .eca,_,,.__ 
Coll 259-1000 for more details 
NEED A LOAN? 
Morrissey Loan Fund 
Up to ~250 at 1% interest rate for 30 days 
(must be a ND student) 
LaFortune Student Center Across from the Information Desk 
Mondays from 3:00-4:00 Tuesday-Friday from 12:30-1 :30 
'Tm disappointed, but I have to look at my career from the big picture and it's important for me to take care ofmyselfand be ready for next year." 
Mary Pierce French Open champion 
now," Williams said. After the U.S. Open "I went to my orthope­dic_ surgeon in Washington, D.C.,
:-----------------------·---­
Aperfect meeting place throughout the weekend. 
Open Friday and Saturday D.iring ND. Home Football Weekends. 
Everyone Welcome 
Live Music Fridays, 2-6p.m. 
Grilled Burgers, Brats, and Other Specialties Cold Beverages & Spirits 

6011 
Screen TV's Fully Enclosed Tent 
next to the N.D. Bookstore. 
Most ND Students Make Healthy Choices 
i 
More than 80% drink only once a week or less frequently. 
1 
Many ND students choose NOT to drink alcohol.* 

A message from PILLARS with Alcohol & Drug Education 311 Lafortune Student Center University of Notre Dame (219) 631-7970 http://www.nd.edu/~aldrug/ 

who told me that the injury ... was close to a stress fracture and I needed to rest immediately and not play for a few weeks. I never took that rest because I really wanted to play the Olympics with Venus. It was a special opportu­nity I didn't want to miss. Following the Olympics, I played in Tokyo, then returned home where I've been practicing and trying tu work through the injury. I just never gave my foot the full amount of rest that it needed." 
Pierce, who has rotator cuff tendinitis in her right shoulder, has played only two tournamenl<; since winning the French Open in June. 
She has not played since the 
U.S. Open, where she retired during her fourth-round match. 
''I'm disappointed. but I have to look at my career from the big picture and it's important for me to take care of' myself to be ready for next year," Pierce said. "I have been struggling with this injury since September and have been doing physical training to stay in shape, but the shoulder is not roady for competition." 
Thursday, November 9, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
Calendar of Events 
November 6-27 103 Hesburgh library 
Sign-up, Freshmen Retreat #32 (Dec. 1-2, 2000) Targeted Dorms: Carroll, Cavan~ugh, Fisher, Knott, Pangborn, Siegfried, Stanford, and Welsh Family 
Saturday, November 11. 9:00 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Annual Notre Dame Concert for the Missions 
Sunday, November 12 Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
Spanish Mass Presider: Rev: Thomas Bednar, csc 
Monday. November 13. 4:00 pm 
Christian Spirituality: A Passion for the Human 
A conference on the lay Catholic movement 
Monday-Tuesday. November 13-14, 11:30 pm-10:00 pm 
St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall Eucharistic Adoration 
Tuesday, November 14, 7:00 pm Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Wednesday, November 15. 10:00 pm Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Thirty-second Sunday 
in Ordinary Time 
Weekend Presiders 
• Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, November 11 Mass 
No mass in Basilica 
Sunday, November 12 Mass. 
8:00a.m. 
Rev. Charles B. Gordon, c.s.c. 
10:00 a.m. 
Rev. Mark L. Poorman, c.s.c., presider Rev. Charles B. Gordon, c.s.c., homily 
11:45 a.m. 
Rev. Thomas V. ·Bednar, c.s.c. 
• Stepan Center 
Saturday,.November 11 Mass 
45 minutes aft~ the g4me 
Rev. Paul Kollman, c.s;c. · 
Scripture Readings for t~is Coming Sunday. 
1st Reading  1 Kgs 17:10-16  
2nd Reading  Heb 9: 24 ­ 28  
Gospel  Mk 12: 38 ­ 44  

The Spirituality of Drivers Ed. 
by Fr. Tom Doyle, c.s.c. 
NOTE: This is an encore presentation of Fr Tom's column that first appeared the day before fall break. 
Elden Humphrey taught Drivers Ed.. Although the class was at an inconvenient time, the presentations were beyond tedious and we had more homework than geometry class, we were all willing to tolerate the discomfort because we knew the prize that awaited. I worked through the class with some arrogance because I'd been driving tractors and pickups for local farmers for some years. Emergency braking and correcting the vehicle from a full slide were second nature given my vast experi­ence on gravel roads. Little did I know that Mr. Humphrey would give me some of the best driving and most relational advice of my life. 
"Keep your eyes high," he would say in his squeaky voice. Whether we were driving down Main Street or the highway, he repeated "keep your eyes high" like a mantra. It worked! With eyes raised to the horizon, I naturally stayed in my own lane of traffic. The vehicle was no longer a pinball ricocheting between the stripes. My nervous, quick corrections of the wheel were no more. 
I've noticed, and it happens every year about this time, that peoples' eyes have dropped. As we pass about campus between classes, meetings, rehearsals, practices, meals and appointments the friendly, eager eye contacts that characterized our Au­gust have given to the anxious fallen eyes of October. The excitement of 
connecting with that friend or stranger along the way has been overcome by something that draws our heads and eyes downward. And, if history re­peats itself, this trend will last beyond our temporary mid-semester fatigue through the remainder of the year. Why is it that when passing another person the concrete sidewalk becomes the preferred place for our eyes? 
While there are certainly many explana­
tions, I'd like to throw out a hypothesis that it has to do with intimacy. As human beings we are wired to desire intimate relationship with others and God. Intimacy is not merely physi-­cal closeness, but it requires emotional and spiritual connections as well. To know and be known is a beautiful thing; but it's not an easy thing. 

Maybe your eyes have fallen because you're a little gun-shy. Your initial overtures toward someone you found attractive were not reciprocated and you have withdrawn like a turtle into its shell. It could be something as benign as getting "shot down" calling a girl from the Dog Book or as predictable as hearing him say the words, "I have a girlfriend back home." Perhaps you tried taking a short-cut to intimacy that turned into a dead end through a "hook-up"; now the chance of meeting his eyes somwhere on the quad causes pain or embarrassment. Maybe she doesn't look up because she can feel that your eyes are looking at every part of her body except her eyes. Maybe he's heard too many crude comments loaded with sexual innuendo. Maybe you're afraid that he'll take a smile the wrong way and start pursuing you. 
If it's friendship and intimacy you desire, don't give up, look up. Real relation­ships are not like our Hollywood versions where beautiful people move from eye contact, to clever verbal exchanges and then to bed. Intimate relationships begin with friendship, respect, careful listening and they are sustained by patience, fidelity and prayer. Keeping one's eyes high in relationships means looking coward what you most hope for the other in the next ten years, not the next ten minutes. Viewing relationships on the horizon will also allow Christ to be included in the landscape. 
So, remember what Mr. Humphrey always said, "Keep your eyes high." It will do more for you than prevent collisions and keep you out of the mud troughs along the sidewalk. With your eyes on the horizon, you can focus on true intimacy with 
.. 
others and steer toward your desired destination. 
0MPUS 
MINISTRY 
Real relationships are not like our Hollywood uersions where beautiful people moue from eye 
contact, to cleuer uerbal exchanges and then to bed. 
page 20 Thursday, November 9, 2000
The Observer . SPORTS 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Yankees agree to single year $52 million contract 
. Team postpones negotiations for multi-year deal 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK 
The New York Yankees postponed their attempt to negotiale a multiyear televi­sion contract, instead agree­ing to a $52 million, one-year deal with a branch of the International Management Group. 
The deal with IMG's Trans World International division was submit­
t (J ct 
"We received the offer. 
Wednesday 
We're reviewing it and
to Madison Square will make comments if 
Garden and when the time's 
Network, 
appropriate."
according to a source familiar with Barry Watkins the deal who 
MSG spokesman
spoke on the condition of anonymity. 
Under the terms or the Yankees' expired $486 million, 12-year contract with the MSG Network, MSG has seven business days to match it. 
"I know we have it. It's somewhere in the building. I just haven't seen it yet," said Seth Abraham, MSG's new executive vice prnsident and chief operating officer. 
A key provision of the deal is that it contains no right of first refusal, which has ham­pered the Yankees in their attempts to negotiate a multi­year contract. 
MSG, a division of Cablevision Systems Corp., has gone to court twice to enforce the right-of-first­refusal. 
The Yankees and TWI agreed in July to a 10-year contract that would have ere• ated a network 95 percent­owned by the team. It would have guaranteed the Yankees about $900 million in the next 10 years. 
MSG sued, saying that it must be given the chance tu match a contract for 100 per­cent of the team's TV rights, and New York Supreme Court Justice 13arry A. Cozier issued an injunction on July 31 that blocked the contract. 
On Sept. 8, the Yankees told MSG they intended to form their own network, and said Morgan Stanley Dean Witter projected the network's value to the team at $2 .4 billion 
over 10 years, or $1.3 billion in present-day dollars, not accounting for inflation. 
MSG sued again Oct. 18, and the team quickly with­drew that pro­posal. 
By going with a one­year deal with 
no right of refusal, the Yankees would gain the free­dom to negotiate whatever contract that wanted for their rights starting with the 2002 season. 
MSG, which has broadcast Yankees· games since 1989, must now decide whether it wants to match the offer. Another lawsuit is always a possibility. 
"We received the offer." MSG spokesman Barry 
Manuel earns 'AL Manger of Year' 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 
Jerry Manuel had just been voted American League Manager of the Year, and to lis­ten to him speak, he had noth­ing to do with it. 
"What I try to do is make sure I remove myself' and put the team first in all aspects," the Chicago White Sox manager said Wednesday after winning the award in a runaway. 
In a race that was no cliflhanger, Manuel received 25 first-place ballots and three seconds for 134 points in voting by the Baseball Writers' Association of America. 
Oakland's Art llowe, whose team won the AL West title, was second for the second straight season, getting 74 points with two firsts, 20 sec­onds and four thirds. 
Seattle's Lou Piniella was third with 28 points. receiving one first, three seconds and 14 thirds. 
"You don't have to necessari­ly like me," Manuel said, recall­ing his spring-training speech to the team. 'Tm not going to be a player's manager or what­ever they want to call it. I just want you to do what's best for the team and respect the oflice of manager more than anything else. Ilopefully that has worked here for the White Sox." 
Manuel, who in his third sea­son as manager led Chicago to its first postseason appearance since 1993, became the fourth White Sox manager to win the award, joining Tony La Russa (1983), Jeff Torborg (1990) and Gene Lamont (1993). 
"What I try to do is 
make sure I remove 
myselfand put the team 
first in all aspects. " 
Jerry Manuel White Sox manager 
"Our team came together in a stretch of about 11 days in spring training," Manuel said. "We had a lot of split squads, and there were 11 straight days where we won a game." 
Manuel's White Sox, who fin­ished 95-67. wound up five games in front of the Indians and were the talk of baseball for much of the season. They did it with a payroll of just $37 million, which ranked 21st. 
"It probably will bn very difli­cult to repeat 95 wins, and also probably difficult getting into the postseason," Manuel said. "My message is to get to the postseason: 85 or 86 or 87 wins, it doesn't matter. I think postseason is more of a goal than wins." 
Going in, most fans predicted Cleveland would win its sixth straight AL Central title. 
But Chicago won 17 of 25 games in April. taking the divi­sion lead on April 19. 
By June 2, the White Sox had the best record in the league, and the White Sox went 7-0 on a June road trip to Cleveland and New York. 
"We caught some people not at a good time and we were playing good baseball," Manuel said. "That bred some confi­dence in a very young team." 
Voting took place before the start of the postseason, so Seattle's sweep of' Chicago in the first round of the playoffs wasn't a factor. 
"I think what happened in the Seattle series was obviously a painful lesson l"or us," he said. "We felt we played good base­ball, they played better base• ball. 
"The lesson that's learned is hopefully that mnpty feeling we had we'll remember going into spring training. We'll use that as our rallying cry throughout the srason." 
The National League Manager of the Ynar is announced Thursday. and San Francisco's Dusty Baker is expected to win. 
Both Manuel and Baker arc from Sacramento, Calif'. 
"I was on the other side of the American River," Manuel said. "We didn't basically cross paths until professional baseball." 
Since then, Baker has been a friend. 
"My first year. when I got the job, my first call was from Dusty Baker in my homo in West Pam Beach," Manuel recalled. "I le just sirn plilicd it. Ile said, 'Be yourself'. You can do it. Never waver with your confidence. You're a very confi­dent man. never waver that despite what you're going through."' 
Af'ter the White Sox began slowly. Baker called him again. 
"It showed mo he was still looking out for me," Manuel said, "even though I was in the Midwest while he was having his problems on the East Coast." 
Watkins said. "We're review­ing it and will make com­ments if and when the time's appropriate." 
The Yankees declined com­ment. 
If it wins the rights, TWI would resell them to another network. A long shot would be for TWI to form its own regional cable channel. 
Hot Jazz, Cool Treats 

Friday, November 10, 2000 
9pm-12am in the LaFortune Ballroom 
Come create your own FREE SUNDAE and enjoy the music ofthe Pat Heiden Quartet while you eat and relax with friends! 
-----$----­
Saint Ma,ry's Collegg 
NOTRE DAME • INDIANA 
28TH ANNUAL 
EUROPEAN STUDY 
TOUR 
MAY 23 -JUNE 22, 2001 
Informational Meeting 6:30-7:30 p.m., Monday, November 13 Welsh Parlor, Haggar College Center Saint Mary's College
t·\. 
~-,~~ 
'1jl_(..., t
ti,•;
., 
~· 
~­
.. 
Courses offered in Biology, Music, Philosophy, and Psychology. 
For further Information contact: 
Professor Thomes Parisi Department or Psycholo&Y Saint Mary's Colleee Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Phone (2lll) 284-4462 / Fax (219) 284-4866 e-mail: tparlsl@saln-arys.edu 
(E-mail is best!) 
Sponsored by Student Activities Office 
~ 
Thursday, November 9, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 


laFORTUNE BAllROOM 

)-"..,y•1;,_:"·,. ,, 
,~ ~.:Acl"".. ;~~t~u
.. ,,_ 
~ 
ri;;~:f ~:~1?::f:1.;:;· 


Joe Joy, Binningham, AL 
ACE Information Niilht 
BE AN ACE TEACHER. 
ACE is a two-year post-graduate service program featuring three pillars: 
etc 
Masters Degree teacher preparation, community life, and spiritual development. 
To find out more about ACE, please stop by 109 Badin Hall or call us at 1-7052.
etc 
-----,-----­
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 9, 2000 
NFL 
Running back Levens undergoes surgery on right knee 
said as he drove up to Lambeau after tearing his patellar tendon t\lso, defensive end Vonnie like this is a shock wave. We've
. Doctors say 
Field. He declined to discuss on Nov. 1, 1999, and returned to llolliday (ankle) and wiueout been through the drill." Packers' star could specifics of his .injury or his prog­action a month ago. But he Corey Bradford (knee). both of' The Packers' injury woes rightbe out for season nosis. began experiencing trouble with whom recently returned to the now rival the worst in franchise 
The Packers expect to know by the knee last week and was lineup, are sidelined again. history. 
AssocialC,d Preu Friday whether or not he'll need deactivated Monday night. Holliday won't play Sunday at After eight starters and three another operation that would On Tuesday, his knee was Tampa and Sherman doesn't key backups missed games with GHEEN HAY, Wis. finish his season. drained but the abscess expect Bradford to. either. injuries during the season's first Packers running back Dorsey Levens has missed four games returned. The Packers arc hop­Williams was replaced by Nate half, the Packers emerged from L<wnns had right knee surgery because of injury this season and ing antibiotics will work. Wayne~ and Holliday will be their bye two weeks ago with Wednesday and could miss the 15 games in the last throe years. "There's a chance it may need replaced by Cletidus Hunt, both everybody healthy except right rest of the season. The Packers have begun talks to be surgically drained," of whom have started four tackle Earl Dotson, certain they 
Team doctor Patrick McKenzie with his agent, Hadley Sherman said. "If that's the case. games this year. could make a push for the play­removed a loose fragment and Engelhard, in hopes of restruc­it would have to be opened up "Our team has been through offs. scar tissue under Levens' turing Levens' $25 million con­and he would be done for the this already." defensive coordi­Now, they're counting on back­kneecap, and the Packers don't tract, which calls for him to season." nator Ed Donatell said. "It's not ups to save their season. know how long Levens will be make $6 million next season. 
out. 
There is "an outside chance that he would be available al the 1rnd of the season," Green Bay coach Mike Sherman said. 
"Everything went as expect­ed," team spokesman Lee Hcmmcll said. 
Levens, who had an operation on his lefl knee during training camp. bruised the right kneecap against Miami lwo weeks ago and it didn't respond to treat­ment last week so the explorato­ry surgery was suggested. 
"They had to go in and just !ind out what the problem was," Sherman said. "He just could not play on it the way it was func­tioning. He didn't have ·any strength to push off." 
Also, weakside linebacker Brian Williams might need a season-ending operation on his surgically repaired right knee, which has developed an abscess, Sherman said. 
"It's OK. I'm cool," Williams 
Levens' age and injur)" history mean the Packers, who have a $10 million overrun on their pro• jected 2001 salary cap, will seek a substantial salary cut for their 30-year-old star running back. 
Even though Levens is in lhe midst of a forgettable season with just 224 yards rushing and a 2.9-yard average, the Packers aren't the same without him in the lineup. Sherman said Levens just brings "an air of confidP-no~" to the offense. 
Levens' backup is Ahman Green, a third-year pro who is faster than Levens but nol as reliable a receiver. 
"That's where I miss Dorsey," quarterback Brett Favre said. "But in order for Ahman to get to that level, he has to play, and if you want to say, make mistakes along the way. then so be it. But he's getting better each week to the point where we're just going to run our stuff." 
Williams had two operations 
30n3 Ba~kelball 
Tournament 
Tuesday 
November 14, 7:00pm at Stepan Center 
Register your team in advance· at RecSpoJts Space is. Umited. Deadline is Mondt~,.,Ntwe~G~r 13-12:00pm Men's and Wom.ell{'s:Dfvisions Open to AU Notre Dai1:e Students, Faculty and Staff Varsity Basketball Players are Ineligible 
.<\~~
Ree.~------

Tbe truth IS, a llnl1 of your !Ima can makl a ldelime ol 
dllftrence. Beclu£11 kids with .somoth!ng to do arc !Ms 
ltk.,tylodc drug,. Tcntcati.t,. Formon lnlormatlonon d1ug pm,entlon p-rograms in your community, call Of visit 
1877KIDS313 
www.youcanhelpklds.org 

hursday. November 9 6,30 p.111. •Messa In Uallano• with plua lo follow, Howud Hall Chapel 7,30 p.11. Ledure, ·same Su !1Ur1c­l1ons, Couraqe and the Bnul7 and the Slrenqlh of Calhollc Social Tnc~lnqs· ­113 Dc8ulolo Hall 
7,30 p.ll. •American Public Philosophy. lcdurc bJ Mlchul G11le,pe. bc8ulolo 204 8,30 p.11.-10,30 p.11. Open kec lacrosse. Court 1, llSR.C 8,30 p.11.-M1dn19hl nb ~xpress 81ll11.rds qames open, laforlune Student Center 9,00 p.m. Acoustic Cafe. Laforlune Studenl Center Huddle 10,30 p.11. Movie, ·Shatt·. be8arlolo 101* and •Jkc Orlqlnal Shatt·. De8ulolo 155* 
Friday. November 10 6,00 p.11. rllpslde evenb Plza before 
the Hockey Ga.¦ e, Cenler for S0c11l Concerns 
6,30 p.a. football Pep Rally, Joyce 
Arcn. 
7,00 p. ¦ .-10,00 p.a. Open llcc 81d¦ IAton, Courl 2, kSllC 7105 p.a. Men's Hockey n. Boslon Collc9e. Joyce Center* 8,00 p. ¦. Muslc1 ·&1q Men on Campus·, O'L1uqhl1n Audllorlum. St Mary's Colleqe 8,00 p. ¦. ·shan-, De8ulolo 101* and ·nie Orlqlna.l Shift•, be8ulolo 155* 8,15 p.11. fllpslde outlnq lo Michiana. Palntball. Bus Departs from nD Library 8,30 p. ¦ .-M1dn19hl nD fxpress 81ll1ards 41mes open. ffl[f POOL. La.fortune StudHt Center 9,00 p.a. Jan Coffeehouse fnlurlnq lhe Pal Heiden Oua.rlel. free Ice cre1m sundH bar, L1forlune Sludent Center 
8allroo¦ 9,00 p.¦. Cinema. d lhe Snlle, ·Topsy Tun(. Snltc MuHum* 10,30 p. ¦. ·sh1U-, l>eBartolo 101* and ·1\c Or191na.l Sha.1t·, be8ulolo 155* 
8,00 p.11. ·Tue Devil and 81117 Mukham·. with Tony La. wlon-L1b Thea.he. Wuhlnqlon Ha.II 9,00 p.111. Annual nD ·Concerl for lhe 
Missions· -Bullie& of lhe Sacred Heart 9,00 p.m. Cinema a.l \he Snlle, ·Topsy Turvy, Snlle Museum* 10,30 p.m. Movie, ·sha.n-. be8arlolo 101* ind ·Tue Orlqlna.l Shan-, be8a.rtolo 155* 
Denotes admission charge for ND/SIY1C students Program5 are 5.Jbµt to change without notice. For up to date information, check out the ND calendar, Today@ ND at WVvV.t.nd.edu or call Student Activities at 6'31-7W8. 
To add an event to furtrcr calendars, ple.::ix ~d the details alx:lut the activity to SJO@hd.edu. 
Thursday, November 9, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
NFL 
Giants gear up to meet defending Super Bowl champions 
. Sehorn prepares to return to lineup after recovering from broken rib-
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
New York Giants cornerback Jason Sehorn practiced Wednesday for the first time since breaking a rib last month, and hopes to play Sunday against St. Louis. 
"It's a coach's decision every week." Sehorn said. "I don't get to make the decision. I told them I wanted to play last week." 
While listing Sehorn as day to day, coach Jim Fassel thinks the seven-year veteran will play against the NFL's top­ranked offense. 
I I 
I I 
i 
"Any time you go against the St. Louis Hams with their attack and you have your best corner sitting on the bench that isn't good," Fassel said. "I think he'll be back and he'll be effec­tive." 
The major concern is seeing how Sehorn reacts to contact. He has not had any since being hurt intercepting a pass on the first play from scrimmage against Dallas on Oct. 15. 
Sehorn didn't get much con­tact Wednesday practicing in shells, a smaller and lighter shoulder pad. 
Center Dusty Zeigler (knee). tackle Luke Petitgout (thigh). tight end Dan Campbell (con­cussion) and linebacker Jack Golden (neck) all returned to practice Wednesday despite being hurt in Sunday's win over Cleveland. 
0 nly back up halfback Joe Montgomery (leg) missed the workout. 

YOU'RE FOCUSED. 
YOU'RE DETERMINED. 
ANDYOU 
HAVE NO IDEA WHAT YOU'RE 
DOING. 
Gathering information for grad school can be absolutely mind-boggling. At Petersons.com, you'll find detailed information on programs, student loan infon:nation, online practice tests and online applications. Go to Petersons.com. And un-boggle that brilliant mind of yours. 
PETERSONS.COM 
THOMSON LEARNING  ONLINEAND IN PRINT  ~ V  
AOL Keyword:  
Peterson's  

. Defense aims to hold Rams to season•low score 
Associa1ed Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
With Kurt Warner and Marshall Faulk out of St. Louis' lineup, the New York Giants' defense is getting a little cocky about playing the Super Bowl champions. 
Safety Sam Garnes even has a number in mind -24. 
If Carolina could limit the Rams (7-2) to a season-low 24 points in beating them Sunday night, the Giants (7­
2) can do better, Garnes said Wednesday. 
"\Ye think we're a good defense," Garnes said. "That's how we have to look at it. If somebody can hold them to something, we have to be able to hold them to less." 
IJuring the current four­game winning streak that has put New York in first place in the NFC East, the Giants have allowed only 30 points, including 10 in wins over Cleveland and Philadelphia the last two games. 
Adding to the Giants' con­fidence is the fact that New York's defense played well in a 31-10 loss to the Rams last season. St. Louis' offense only scored 17 points. The other 14 were scored by the Rams' defense. 
"I don't know if there is a better coordinator in the league than John Fox," Rams coach Mike Martz said. "He's at the forefront of defense. He knows how to motivate these guys. They play with great emotion. so they· II be tough to deal with." 
The key to the Giants' defense has been the play of the front seven, particularly the front four which has been limiting opponents to 
67 .9 yards rushing per game. That's also made opposing offenses one dimensional and helped the pass defense, which is giv­ing up an average of 214.6 yards. 
While that's impressive against anyone else, doing that against the Rams will be a challenge, even with 
Trent  Green  starting  at  
quarterback  in  place  of  
Warner.  

St. Louis is leading the league in total yards per game (484.1), passing (370). first downs (221) and points (354). 
"They have some horses and we got some horses, too," Giants defensive tackle Keith Hamilton said. "Rightfully so, they got the respect. They won the Super 
Bowl last year and they started off 6-0. So we're not taking them lightly. but we're not in awe of them, either." 
With Faulk sidelined by a knee injury Sunday, the Rams still managed to gain over 400 total yards. Green generated most of it, hitting 29 of 42 for 431 yards and two touchdowns. The run­ning game was limited to 31 yards on 16 carries. 
"On their worst night of the season they scored 24," 
I said Giants cornerback
IJason Sehorn, who probably will return this week after missing two games with a broken rib. "I think every team in the NFL would take that as their worst game." Garnes said that's what makes the Rams scary. "You know if you don-'t play good you can be embarrassed," Garnes said. "They can put up 50 points fast if you don't do you're job. They're that good." 
For peoplewho can't see well, here are somethings to look into. 

\..;' 
,~.•
,&. ... ,"·' 
There are services and devices that can help people make the most of the vision they have. Call for a free booklet: 
1-877 LOW VISION 
(1-877-569-8474) 
National Eye
Institute 

UTIOIAL 1mnum OF MULTI 


Dame might just make it into one of' the  'Tm sure the Sugar Bowl would have an  "When all's said and done, that might be a  
four big b()wls.  interest in Notre Dame  small  list  or  
Champions l'rom the ACC. Big East. Big  IifNotre Dame goes 9­2].,,  teams that are eligible. Our first tie-in is  
10.  Big  12,  with the Big 12  
Pac-10  and  Paul Houlihan  conference, but  
SEC qualil'y for a BCS game. along with two  Sugar Bowl executive director  af'ter that, we have to look at what's going to  
at-large teams.  make the most  

The granddaddy of the BCS is intriguing matchup. the Orange Bowl, played for tlm "Notre Dame's definitely a national championship, which team that we'd be excited to for Notre Dame this year is an have." overtime loss to Nebraska out of Irish hopes for a BCS berth reach. Big 12 team Oklahoma, are not set in stone, but three ACC leader Florida State, Big more Notre Dame victories and East school Miami and SEC­a couple key losses by higher­based Florida, ranked first ranked schools could send the through fourth in the BCS. Irish on their way. respectively, seem the best bets No. 11 Kansas State faces No. fur the Orange Bowl. 4 Nebraska this weekend, and 
The Hose Bowl pits the Big 10 should the 'Huskers win as champion versus the Pac-10 expected, Kansas State will champion, barring the possibili­become a blip on the BCS ty that a team from either con­screen. ference is in the title picture. And there's no way that three With Washington, the top­Pac-10 schools -Washington, ranked Pac-10 school, at No. 6 Oregon and Oregon State are all in the BCS rankings, and higher than Notre Dame in cur­Purdue, the highest Big 10 rent BCS rankings -will make team, at No. 10, neither confer­it into a BCS game. Oregon and ence seems likely to put a Oregon State face one another 
BCS 
continued from page 28 
major bowl the Irish took part in was just one year later, a 31­26 Orange Bowl loss to Florida State. 
Since then, the once-proud Irish have been seen in the Poulan/Weed Eater lndcpundcncc Bowl and the Toyota Gator Bowl. ThBy've also been found at home for the holi­days two of the past four years. 
But if the current trend con­tinues of too-close-for-comfort wins, Notre 
school in the Orange Bowl. 
There may be a spot free for Notre Dame in either the Fiesta Bowl or the Sugar Bowl, howev­er. The Fiesta takes the Big 12 champion and one at-large school. while the Sugar picks the SEC winner and an at-large team. 
"I'm sure the Sugar Bowl would have an interest in Notre Uame [if Notre Dame goes 9-2]." Sugar Bowl executive director Paul Iloulihan said. 
As would the Fiesta, which could niakc an interesting Oght for the Irish. 
"To be BCS-eligible, a team needs to have nine wins," Schoeft1er said. 
Saturday, November 18 1:00pm at Beacon Bowl 
Individual Registration in advance at RecSports 3 Game Format Registration deadline is Wednesday, November 15 Cost is $5.25 and individuals will pay the day of at the Bowling Alley Transportation is not provided For more information call RecSports at 631-6100 
,Z?~~ 
Nov. 18, and the loser will drop from BCS contention. 
Conference championships in the Big 12 could also prove lethal to Nebraska should it lose, or to Oklahoma, if it loses another game. 
Meanwhile, Notre Dame faces Boston College at home, a bru­tal Hutgers team on thn road and closes out against a mediocre USC team in Southern California. The late-season Irish schedule hascbssporstlinc.com pegging Notre Dame as an at­large pick for the Fiesta Bowl 
It's all up to the Irish to win out. While the Irish suffered through a dry spell in the late 
1990s, that's only left blue and gold fans hungrier for a big bowl. Notre Dame still sells out every game, still commands a huge NBC contract and would still draw a sellout crowd at any of the four BCS games. 
"That always makes Notre Dame an attractive option," Houlihan said. 

Debbie Ballou (Professor of Management, UND)
September 1 
"Overview of Current E-commerce Issues" 
David Overbeeke (Gen. Manager E-business, GE Aircraft: Engines)
September 15 
"Business to Business E-commerce" Geoff Robertson {Vice President of Engineering, rnvp.com)
September 29 
"Starting a B2C Company" Michael Cullinane (Chief Financial Officer, divine interVentures)
October6 
"How to Value an E-business" CoUeen Sullivan (Dir. of Information Systems, Alltel Communications)
October27 
"Data Warehousing and Mining for Building Business Intelligence" Rick Spurr (Senior Vice President, Entrust Technologies)
November3 
"Internet Security Threats and Measures to Deal with Them" 
Reuben Slone (Vice President of Global E-business, Whirlpool)
November 10 
"Supply Chain Management" 
November 17  Cheryl Aetterick (Manager, PricewaterhouseCoopers)  
"Conducting E-business Assessment"  
December 1  Dr. Anatole Gershman (Director, Andersen Consulting) "Emerging Trends and Technologies in E-commerce"  
All lcclurcs held from 10:4oam-12:05pm  

Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business Notre Dame faculty, staffand students arc welcome to attend these presentations 
The Faces of Holy Cross , 

"Our calling is to serve the Lord Jesus in mission not as independent individuals but as a brotherhood." 
(Constitutions of the Congregation of Holy Cross, IV.33) 
ANSWER * 
THECALL "!Y 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 
Thursday, November 9, 2000 The Oburver . SPORTS page 25 
Signees 
continued from page 28 
Basketball for the state. He­selected Notre Dame over Indiana. The 6-foot-1, 165­pounder's decision to sign with the Irish is a recruiting coup for Not.re Dame, which usually loses out to in-state foes Indiana and Duke for top recruits. 
Thomas·s Pike High School team has tallied a 65-12 record in his three seasons. As a junior, Thomas averaged 24.3 points, 5.6 rebounds, 4.7 assists and 3.5 steals. He also captured second­team all-state honors. 
"With the graduation of Marti.n lngelsby at point guard after this season," Brey said. "there is going to be every opportunity for Chris to come in and contribute immediately. He's an exceptional and gifted player with tremendous skills." 
Notre Dame's second recruit, the 6-foot-9, 200-pound Cornette, helped St. Xavier High School in Cincinnati take home its first-ever Ohio state crown in 2000. He averaged 9.0 points, 5.0 rebounds and 4.0 blocked shots as a junior. 
"He has tremendous defensive instincts and a great feel for the game," Brey said. ''He's a good perimeter player who handles the ball very well." 
Cornette ·has risen drastically in the recruiting rankings, grow­ing eight inches si.nce his fresh­man year and bulking up his frame. His performance with his AAU team also won acclaim. Cornette picked Notre Dame over Michigan StatP, Ohio State. Xavier and Dayton. 
Thomas and Cornette's MU teams met this summer in the semifinals of the 120-team AAU national tournament in Orlando, Fla., this July. Cornctte's squad knocked Thomas's team out of the tournament to advance to the championships. where it lost. Both players rank among the nation's top 50. 
Both Thomas and Cornette committed to Notre Dame last spring when Matt Doherty was still the head coach for the Irish. In July, when Brey took over at the helm for the Irish, one of his first moves was to keep the two recruits in the fold. He was 
"/ would have been really shocked ifthey didn't stay with us. Fits for Notre Dame are going to be fits for Notre Dame, no matter who's coaching. The top high school kids with grades are the top high school kids with grades.,, 
Mike Brey Irish head coach 
hampered by NCAA rules that prohibited him from calling the players more than once a week. 
"You're only allowed one phone call a week. and the insti­tution had made the call that Tuesday," Brey said, who was hired Friday, July 14th, "I'm sure they were waiting to hear from me Friday, but I couldn't call until Sunday." 
Brey felt confident that the two would stick with their plans to play for the Irish. 
"I would have been really 
shocked if they didn't stay with us," Brey said. "Fits for Notre Dame are going to be fits for Notre Dame, no matter who's coaching. The top high school kids with grades arc the top high school kids with grades." 
The third recruit, Hendrix, was a late development for Notre Dame. 
Hendrix, a 6-foot-7, 215­pound power forward from Covington, Ga., made a verbal commitment to Notre Dame in October. surprising many. Even current Irish players did not even know Hendrix was consid­ering Notre Dame at the time of his commitment. 
In early September, Brey began lo look at Hendrix to fill the spot that opened up after Mike Monserez transferred to Butler. Brey saw the senior play at the Charlie Weber Tournament in September. and was immediately struck by his potential. 
"After watching him that weekend, we were all over that," Brey said. "It wasn't eval­uation anymore. We wanted him, and a lot of people had the same attitude as us after that weekend." 
Hendrix selected the Irish over schools such as Georgia, Memphis, Xavier, Georgia Tech and Clemson. He picked Notre Dame without ever having visit­ed the campus. 
As a junior, Hendrix put up 
17.0 points, 10.0 rebounds and 
3.0 blocks per game for East Side High School. which advanced to his first-ever playoff appearance. Hendrix also set a single-game mark last year for rebounds with 28. 
"Jemcre is a player who is only going to get better and improve with each season," Brey said. "He has a great frame and body for the game and is a skilled defensive player." 
Now that Brey can sit back and relax about this year's batch of recruits, he will turn his attention to the current season and the Class of 2006. 
"We've got to have a heck of a class," Brey said. "We need four good players when you look at what we're losing. You do have playing time to sell when you have four starters graduating. Certainly top high school players are looking for that right away." 
2000 Notre Dame Men's Basketball Signees 
Name  Position  Avg.Points  Avg.Rebounds  Honors  
Chris Thomas  Point Guard  19.2  5.6  won 1998 Indiana State Championchip  
Jordan Cornette  Forward  9.0  5.0  led #1 Cincinnati MU Runners-up Position  
Jemere Hendrix  Forward  17.0  10.0  played two seasons for Atlanta MU All-Stars  


Who should attend Saint Mary's Annual Career Fair? 
til First year students -gather information to assist in deciding a major. ti1 Sophomores and Juniors -find out about internship opportunities. til Seniors -gain networking contacts for employment after graduation. 
This event is open to all students of Notre Dame, Holy Cross and Saint Mary's 
This annual career fair is co-sponsored by SMC Board of Governance and Saint Mary's College Counseling and Career Development Center HAVE YOU REGISTERED YET? -http://saintmarys.jobdirect.com 
Saint Mary's College 
Counseling & Career Development Center Le Mans Hall 166 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
PH: 219.284.4565 FAX:219.284.4524


Job Direct.com 

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 9, 2000 
make the extra pass." The Irish committed just 12
Irish 
turnovers, a statistic they strug­continued from page 28 gled with last season. Brey 
experimented with several line­from the t1oor and live players ups and also got to see two of his scored in double figures, includ­freshman in action for the first ing junior forward David Graves time. who scored 18 points, grabbed "That's the lirst time we've had four rebounds and dished out everyone un the same bench," three assists. Brey said. "We're trying to get a 
Junior I Iarold Swanagan, who feel for rotations and who is started for the Irish at center last going to be playing what minutes season, came off the bench to and who will be playing in what score 14 situations. And points and we'll learn from
"That's the jirst time 
pull down six it."
we've had everyone on
rebounds in Freshman 17 minutus of the same bench. We're point guard 
action. trying to get a feel for Torrian Jones "Anything had a good
rotations and who is 
you ask of showing in his 
llarold, he going to be playing what first collegiate 
d o e s , " minutes and who will be game. Murphy said. Ile drained two
playing in what
"lie sets 3-pointers and
situations. And we'll
screens that finished with get all lhc learn from it." seven points and shooters two assists. open. Ile pro­"This was a 
Mike Brey
vid r-s offen­positive step for sive and Irish head coach us," Brey said. defensive "lie got 20 min-rebounds. We utes tonight and know how important and instru­certainly we are going to need mental he is." him this year." 
Sophomore guard Matt Carroll Freshman forward Tom scored l 1 points and dished out Timmermans played the final seven assists in 28 minutes. three minutes of the game and 
"No ont1 has better in the first knocked down two shots. month of this season than Matt "We're ready to play and we're Carroll," Brey said. "No one's excited to play," Brey said. "We played better defense on the obviously have a lot of weapons perimeter than him. He knows on offense, but we are a work in how to make the extra pass and progress defensively. We need to tonight he had seven assists and get better there. We still have a no turnovers." lot to work on and the nice thing 
The unselfish play of the Irish is that our guys understand was evident all night as they that." racked up 29 assists. The Irish close out the presea­
Senior point guard Martin son when they host the lngelsby led the Irish with nine International All-Stars Sunday at assists. the Joyce Center. The regular 
"Certainly this is a team that season gets underway Nov. 18 can pass and will pass," Brey when Notre Dame takes on said. "Our challenge will be to Sacred Heart at home. 
Institute for Latino Studies First Annual Speaker Series 
"Corazon y Conversion: The Dynamics of Undocumented Mexican Immigration and Spiritual Transformation Fr. Dan Groody, C.S.C. November 13, 2000 
"Bronze Screen: 100 Years of Latino Images in Hollywood" Nancy De Los Santos November 29, 2000 
"Lullabies, History, and Memory" Antonia Castaneda TBA -Spring 2001 
"Cuban Exile Catholics: Militancy, · community, and Identity: 1959-1992" Gerald Poyo April 3, 2001 
DUFFY MARIE ARNOULT/The Observer 
Forward David Graves was one of five Irish players scoring In double figures with 18 points. The junior also dished out three assists and grabbed four rebounds in Notre Dame's exhibition win . 
• Veteran's Day. 
Joint Military Ceremony 
Friday, November 10 
\JD R07C units pay tn'bute to America's military veterans with distinguished ~eaker 
Father T. Hesburgh 
.tr,-Starts -4:00pm at Heldhouse Mall ~ 
" Inclement v.-eather 9.te-JACC Conmurse ,,..._ 
Student, Faculty, Staff and Family Tennis Clinic 
Presented by: 
Men's & Women's Varsity Tennis Teams Stroke Analysis & Playing Situations 
Monday, November 13 
6:00 PM -7:15 PM Eck Tennis Pavilion Free of Charge No Advance Registration Necessary Bring Your Own Racquet Tennis Shoes Required, No Running Shoes Allowed Call RecSports at 1-6100 for More Information 
Open to All Notre Dame Students, Faculty and Staff and their families 
,z?--~ 

Thursday, November 9, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
TYLER
FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY THINGS COULD BE WORSE WHATELY 
HE FINM. 
ULT IS IN: 
GORE, 
BILL AMEND
Fox TROT 
STOP STICICING YOUR
CHEC!<MATE. YEAH, 
CD OUT AT ME!
I WIN. 'YE.a.H••. 
I 

l""• qot ..~. 'hr$t ~A ll't "°'"'&. f1AAl\y1 
'I.'II ,~++~ c.lQ.~&\ 
:c W~f\T• 
0 
0 
0 • 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Irish Hockey Fri. Nov. 10, 
Notre Dame vs. #2 Boston College bigan/ Miami (:H)m ~ 
First 350 students admitted free 
d free
First 100 students receive free .,..
,,:".:l~,-.11;:w, :·:fie·. i·~~.-., 
A chance at free tuition for one lucky stud 
ball Sun. Nov. 12 1 m
courtesy or South BendTribune s.. International Select (exh.)
Turkey Bowling Contest to win a Thanksgiving turkey courtesy of 
0"11, 
MEIJER. 
12  13  

45 Mercury wore winged ones 48 Smelled 50 Way: Abbr. 52 1973 resignee  

53 Lot 59 Talk 54 Arabian bigwig 60 Tit for tat, e.g.? 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
A A G A P A P A S H A L T A B U T E V I L C A B I N M O S T S O T O A R E N T 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jane Pauley, Dan Rather, Dei­dre Hall, John Candy, Lynda Good­friend, Roger Kahn 
Happy Birthday: You are ready, willing and able to take on the best and show how much you have to offer. Don't back down from any competition or opposition. Your strength of character and diplomacy in dealing with others will help you achieve your goals as well as the recognition you desire. Your num­bers: 5, 7, 18, 26, 39, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Look 
into travel opportunities. You need to expand your circle of friends. Your knack for getting things started will be appreciated by colleagues. 
00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You should be checking out investments. Bonds or other conservative ways of saving money will be beneficial. Real estate dealings will turn out better than anticipated. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your emotional situation may]et out of hand if you don't ben to your mate's demands. Shopping will re­sult in good buys. Take your mate with you to avoid discord later. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Work hard and you will see accomplish­ments. Your boss is watching how well you handle situations. Your abil­ity to get along with co-workers will make a difference when it comes to your evaluation report. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your mind 
will be on entertainment and com­
petitive games. You need to spend 
time witn friends who may be poten­
tial mates. Look into careers that will 
allow you to work out of your home. 
0000 
Birthday Baby: You have a serious perspective on things, but that's exactly why you will be able to make a difference. You are fair and honorable in all your dealings and will win the respect and admiration of those you meet throughoutyour life. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 10 2000 Universal Press Syndicab! 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Female members of your family may be a little touchy. Be sure to stay out of their way and humor them if you must. Home-improvement projects will turn out well. 00 
LIBRA (Sepl 23-0cl 22): Get out with friends. You need some excite­ment in your life. Look into seminars that offer unusual information. You should try to attend functions that will stimulate your mind. 0000 
SCORPIO (Ocl 23-Nov. 21): You should be able to come up with unique ways to make money on the side. Products or services for the home may be the answer. Look into all your options. Get the family to pitch in. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will be emotionally up and down. Don't take things the wrong way. Your tendency to be overinduf­gent and sentimental today will leave you feeling quite silly later on. 
000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Look into matters that may be secre­tive. It is best to take care of any pending legal problems before they get out of nand. Don't count on get­ting back money that friends owe you.000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
You can get ahead if you are willing 
to contact those in a position to help. 
Favors will be granted if you are 
willing to barter with others. Group 
involvement will lead to good 
connections. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Don't expect co-workers to pick up the slack if you need help. Be pre­pared to stay late if necessary. Your mate might not be too pleased ifyou haven't given fair warning. 00 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Secure with rope 5 Cassandra's father 
10 Arnold Schwarzeneg­ger's Austrian birthplace 
14 Corp. monitor 15 Andrew Wyeth's 
" Pictures" 16 Zhivago's love 17 Blacken 18 Copycats 19 _ uproar 20 With 53-Across, 
a comment on British P.M. William Gladstone 
23 "Santa Baby'' hitmaker, 1953 24 Sign 25 Barrio resident 
28 With 47-Across, maker of the comment 
33 Route for Ben-Hur 
34 The sphere one moves in 
36 1969 movie starring Omar Sharif 
37 Long skirts 39 Conversation stopper? 40 Conrad of early films 
42 Group of periods 
43 Twins 
46"Get_!" 
47 See 28-Across 
49 Traffic site 
51 Kind of bark 
52 Not for 
53 See 20-Across 
61 Uncontrolled 
62 Poetic name for Ireland 
63 Stiff in the joints 
65 Unprecedented 
66 Bloke 
67 Padded 
68 Doesn't eat 
politely 69 Emerald City visitor 
DOWN 
1 Place to summer in Scotland 2 1968 U.S. Open champion 3 Onetime Islamic leader 4 Cio-Cio-San's way out 
5 Not really there 6 Move, in a way 7 "Before _ you 
go .. ." 8 Taj Mahal site 9 Ballet Russe 
dancer Leonida 10 The Father of 
Russian Music 11 Tried to contact 12 Asia's Sea 13 Author Grey 21 Wrong 
Joe 25 Did a lawn job 26 Game company 
founded in 1972 
27 Where bluebonnets bloom 
28 Pancakes served with sour cream 
32 Nice-_ 35 It might be surrounded by bows 
38 Music practice 
41 Caveman's tool, e.g. 
44 Victim of herd mentality 


On the ball 
Allen Iverson scored 28 points to lead the 76ers over the Pistons, 103-94.
PORTS 
page 14 
O
THE page 28 BSERVER Thursday, November 9, 2000 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Putting on an all-star performance 
No.15 Irish impress in season debut with 98-68 rout of California All-Stars 
By BRIAN KESSLER Spom Wri1er 
There is nothing like watching the Laker Girls on Family Feud to settle a few nerves. 
That's exactly what senior for­ward Hyan Humphrey did Wednesday afternoon lo relax before his first basketball game in a Notre Dame uniform. The Oklahoma transfer overcame a few pre-game jitters and respond­ed with a 14-point, six-rebound effort as No. 15 Notre Dame picked up right where it left off last season with an impressive 98­68 rout of the California All-Stars Wednesday at the Joyce Center. 
The lop-sided victory earned the Irish a surprising comparison to last year's National Champion Michigan State Spartan team. 
... "That's the best team I've played in seven games," All-Stars head coach Price Johnson said. "They're well coached and they shoot well. Last year, I got beat 66-115 by Michigan State. The team I have this year is better than the team I had last year and Notre Dame is better than Michigan State was when we played them. That is how embarrassing this is." Junior player of the year candi­date Troy Murphy put in a typical All-American performance with 24 points and 17 rebounds. but it was 
Humphrey who stole the show. 
"He's been a highlight tilm in practice," Brey said. "He can cer­tainly light a crowd up and he's a momentum guy. lie can make some amazing plays and guys are starting to learn to feed him in places where you can't feed most humans." 
Humphrey drew "oooohs" and "aaaahs" from the crowd all night with his rim-rocking dunks and monster rejections. 
"He's made some blocks on me like that so it was nice to see him do it on someone else," Murphy said. "He brings those blocks and a lot of excitement that has been lacking around here." 
The Irish opened the game with a 16-0 run in the first 3:10 and never looked back, leading by as many as 37 points on two different occasions. 
"We started that way because we were sound offensively, but also because we played defense in those first four minutes," Brey said. "I thought we were really there. They had possessions and we had six stops. We were active and caused a few turnovers and we had some clean defensive rebounds. But we need to work on our transition defense and our rotation." 
The Irish shot nearly 50 percent 
-------se_e_I_R..,...IS_H_/p_a_g_c_2...,.6 

FOOTBALL 
Irish remain on track for BCS berth 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associaro, Spores Edicor 
After Notre Dame picked up its second loss of the season at Michigan State, it looked like a Bowl Champion Series berth was all but out of the question. 
But by racking up four straight victories, the Irish have slowly worked their way back onto the BCS radar. 
Teams that finish with at least nine victories and in the top 12 of the rankings are eli­gible to be selected for a BCS berth. 
Don't look now, but this week, the Irish are 6-2 and stand 12th in the BCS rank­ings. That, combined with Notre Dame's national fan 
"There's a lot offootball 
left, but Notre Dame is 
one ofabout eight or 
nine teams that we 're 
looking at. It ·s been 
awhile since they've 
been in our bowl." 
Shawn Schoeffler Fiesta Bowl media relations director 
base, makes Notre Dame an attractive option for a BCS bowl should the Irish win out in their linal three games. 
An official with the Notre Dame athletic department con­
from both the Tostitos Fiesta Bowl and the Nokia Sugar Bowl attended the Notre Dame-Air Force game. Representatives from both bowls have expressed an inter­est in snagging a 9-2 Notre Dame team. 
"It's a team that's definitely on our list," Fiesta Bowl media relations director Shawn Schoeffler said. "There's a lot of football left, but Notre Dame is one of about eight or nine teams that we're looking at. It's been awhile since they've been in our bowl." 
That's an understatement. 
The Irish haven't played in the Fiesta Bowl since after the 1994 season, and the last 
firmed that representatives 
see BCS/page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Brey seals recruiting deal with 3 signees 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Associate Sports Editor 
It's finally official. 
The Class of 2005 Notre Dame men's basketball recruiting class is in the bag, and head coach Mike Brey is free at last to mention the three future Domers' names. Forwards Jemere Hendrix and Jordan Cornette and point guard Chris Thomas all signed national let­ters of intent Wednesday to attend Notre Dame beginning next fall. 
"We're thrilled that all three of the players will be attending Notre Dame next fall," Brey said. "These three players give us athletic ability and speed, something that we need for the future." 
Under NCAA regulations, Brey was not permitted to name the players until they signed their letters of intent Wednesday, although all three had previous­ly given verbal commitments. 
"It helps now that they're offi­cial. to develop the relationship even further," Brey said. 
Thomas. an Indianapolis native, is considered the top high school senior basketball player in Indiana this year, and is a strong candidate to win Mr. 
see SIGNEES/page 25 
ar Boston College vs. Boston College Friday, 7:05 p.m. Saturday, 3:30 p.m.. 
.
SPORTS ~-•
." Men's and Women's Interhall Championshsps 
ATA 
Women's College Cup Cross country .~ Sunday, 11 a.m. second round NCAA District IV Championships vs. Michigan in Ypsilami, Mich. 
GLANCE 1' • • 
Sunday, I p.m Saturday, TBA 



