
Not goin' soft 
Where will he end up? 
Al/DC has been in the business for 
Tuesday
While Elian Gonzalez is still residing in Miami 

27 years and the band is still 
with relatives, the Justice Department is 

producing good hard rock. 
threatening to send him back to Cuba. 

MARCH 28, 
Scene . page 17 
WorldNation . page 5 

2000 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXlll NO. 109 HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 


OUTreach applies for recognition, acceptance doubtful 
This marks the fourth time GLND/SMC applied for recog­nized organization for gay and seen two tenured faculty mem­By TIM LOGAN that a gay and lesbian student nition three times, most recent­lesbian students." he said. bers resign over the New, \'<'ricer group has applied for official ly in April, 1996. The group He said Notre Dame feels University's stance towards 
recugnitiun. Each time the was denied all three times by that it can better serve the homosexuals. 

OlJTrPachND. the unofficial application has been denied. University administrators who needs of those students Bauer disputes the notion coalition or gay and leshian "I don't anticipate the out­said its beliefs were not in through existing programs run that University-sanctioned pro­SLUd(\lllS, has applied f"or om­come is going lo be any differ­agreement with Church teach­by Campus Ministry. the grams are sufficient when it l"i al rP('ogn it inn from the P nt." Cassid v said. 'Tm not ings. University Counseling Center comes to supporting gays and 
UnivPrsitv, but both IP ad t' rs and admin­is l rat ors sav the ciub's rhanc1•s for approval arP vnry slim. 
"I don't 

··.• 
,,...
(~ ~····· ,.: 

Cassidy 
saying they can't apply. but I But the and the Office lesbians. wanted to be up front about it, leaders of of Student "I don't think they serve the saying it is [thrir) call." 0UTreach "We'd like to be a Affairs. needs." he said saying that 
Hccognized clubs am eligible say their legitimate organization in T h e OUTreach connects with stu­for funds from Student group is not University's dents better. "None of the
the eyes ofthe school. It'd 
/\ctivities and can hold office GLND/SMC efforts to groups provide gay and lesbian space in the Club Resource and should make things a lot easier." reach out to role models." Ccntor in LaFortune Student be judged gay and les­Bauer and 0UTreach co­Center. They also arc allowed differently. bian students president Anne Geggie will
Jeremy Bauer 
to post signs on campus and "It's less h a v e meet with Cassidy this week to 

OUTreach co-president
can recruit members at the a b o u t increased discuss services for gay and annual Activities Fair. activism and since 1996, lesbian students. They say their 

think we'll lw accepted," said "We'd like to be a legitimate more about the most group will continue to help 0UTrnach co-prnsidPnt Jcmm1y organization in the eyes of the support and creating a commu­recent time GLND/SMC applied homosexual and bisexual stu­Bau Pr. school," Bauer said. "It'd make nity," Bauer said. for recognition, Cassidy said. dents even if its bid for Student 
Tlw group was discouraged things a lot easier." But regardless of what Since then, Notre Dame has Activities approval fails. from applying by Joe Cassidy. 0lTreach grew out of Gays 0UTreach is about, the chances created a Standing Committee "We're probably not going to diwctor of StudPnt Activities, and Lesbians of Notre that the current Notre Dame on Gay and Lesbian Student get recognition, but there are but filod its papers last week Dame/Saint Mary's (GLND/SMC) administration will recognize a Needs, as well as several sup­other things we can do to help anyway. Cassidy will make the in 1998, when the group's gay and lesbian student group port groups, and adopted the gay and lesbian students," dncision about rocognition, leaders decided to change their are minimal, according to Spirit of Inclusion statement. Bauer said. and. at a meeting earlier this focus from campaigning for Cassidy. But in the last three years, the Approximately 35 students month. he told 0lJTrnach's wider gay rights on campus to "While their stance may have administration has twice decid­attend 0UTreach meetings reg­IPadrrs their prospocts were providing a community for changed, I'm not seeing that ed not to add sexual orienta­ularly, Bauer said, with more not good. I-le still feels that homosexual and questioning the Universitv's stance has tion to the University's non-dis­than 150 on the club's mailing way, lw said Friday. studonts. changed on having a recog-crim ination clause and has list. 



Bone marrow treatment helps leukemia patients 

. Leukemia diagnoses difficult; effective treaments tough to find 
By MAUREEN SMITHE 
Assistant Nt'ws Editor 
Snphomorn Conor Murphy's rcwnt diagnosis with leukemia has drawn spPcial attention at Nofre Dame to this confusing and wid(•ly varying disease. 
ThP different forms of lPukemia makP the disfrnse hard to diagnosP and very dilTI­cult tu treat. Out of three mil­lion potential donors in the National Bone Marrow Registry, only one was a match with Murphy. 
"What WP do know it that Conur has an extremely rare, acutii form of lm1kemia." said sophomore Wes Jacobs, a friend of Murphy's. 
Photo courtesy of Steve Napleton 
Conor Murphy, extreme left, shown here with friends Wes Jacobs, Rene Levario and Steve The disease Napleton (left to right), was diagnosed with acute leukemia early this semester. Although the Striking both sexes and peo­national bone marrow bank includes three million individuals, only three possible matches were 
ple of all ages. leukemia has found for Murphy. A bone marrow drive will be held Wednesday in Murphy's honor. 
rntlwr elusive signals, including easy bruising, paleness, fatigue Leukemia and Lymphoma leukemia as "a disease of the leukemia is." More than 30,000 and poor healing of minor Society. blood system. The technicalities cases of leukemia are diag­wounds. Oftentimr•s the disease Marcia Hobbins, coordinator of it create many different kinds nosed every year, and 142,000 is found during a routine physi­of the National Marrow Donor -there are so many kinds that cal exam, according to the Program (NMDP), explained I can't say exactly what 
see LEUKEMIA/page 4 
. National marrow registry testing to take place Wednesday 
By MAUREEN SMITHE Assiscanc News Edicor 
In light of sophomore Conor Murphy's struggles with leukemia, Notre Dame will host a bone marrow d r i v e Wednes­day from 9 

See Also
a.m. to 3 
p.m. in the "Will you be La For­
someone's 
t u n e lifeline?"
Ballroom. 
T h e 
page 15 
drive is another instance of the support for Murphy which has been growing since his diagnosis was made public before spring break. The drive is sponsored by the Office of Student Affairs and Campus Ministry. 
"Our community and Conor need this," said Father Jim Lies, rector of Zahm Hall, where Murphy lives. "Conor needs to know that he is sup-
see DRIVE/page 4 page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, March 28, 2000 


INSIDE COLUMN QUOTES OF THE WEEK 

Let's get on with it! 
Do you have any idea what it is like lo have to sift through the drivel and the genius to decide what goes into the daily Viewpoint pages? Sometimes it's a di11icult task, having to decide between really C()mpelling and weH-writton con­tributions to the intellectual 
discourse in this Catholic university community. Moro often, however, what gets printed is the least of a few dismal evils. 
Bearing in mind that all we have to choose from is whatever pt>ople send in, you can understand the frequen­

cv of debate about homosex­
A.J. Boyd
u.ality. football, and all things conservative. When you real­ize that we may get 30 let­Assistant ters that more or less say Viewpoint
"Bob Davie sucks" without 
Editor 
much reason or rhetoric, vou know why Viewpoint editors feel compP.!led to print the delusional ramblings from the one person who writes about the con­spiracy by the CIA lo use fluoride in our drinking water as a mind control substance. 
Occasionally we may be so pressed for coher­ent lett11rs that you might see documents possess­ing a serious ideological slant (well, it is an opin­ion page, after all), or worse. a distinct lack of what we in the business call "facts" or "a solid background of reliable information." (For case in point, see a recent letter that misleads readers with the perception that somehow NDSPD's state-certified, academy-graduated, gun-toting, sworn police officers aren't on par with their local counterparts.) 
Truly, it is a fascinating job that allows me to peruse the opinions of students and faculty, keep­ing a tenuous finger on the pulse of the outspo­ken minority of this unique collection of chrisiani­ty-guided academics we call the Notre Dame family. At the same time it is disheartening to see the vast disillusionment of students jaded by pedantic professors, pointless parietals policies, or acrimonious administrators. Even more depressing is the seeing the obsession shared by far too many campus residents with athletic imperialism and sports supremacy. 
Most offensive of course are those who replace "Catholic" in their personal philosophies with ideas like "conservative" or "uniformity" and think the difference is negligible. If you feel so inclined, remember the Gospels and the Catechism decry the death penalty, embrace homosexuals, disdain war, encourage socialism and generally call us to be our brothers' keepers. 
No one ever said an opinion can't be shared in fewer than 800 words. and sharing an opinion doesn't mean eliminating all reference to author­ities beyond your emotional inner child. I for one would welcome more letters, more pithy and more often. And don't be sheep: write about something new, something exciting, and some­thing that doesn't involve Bob Davie or the infa­mous waterboy. . 
And now that l have come to the very brink of calling the general readership unimaginative sheep driven by base instincts and an aversion to genuine discipline and discourse, I challenge someone to prove me wrong. Shed the cloak of apathy you have wrapped yourself in an express yourself. Bare your soul. Go tell it on a mountain; sing it to the highest heaven. You get the drift. 
As Yule Brenner (aka Rameses II) would say, "So let it be ¼Titten, so let it be done." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those uf The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

New:s Scene 
Laur;i Rompf Emmett Malloy Kare Nagengast Jeon Za1orski Brigid Sweeney 
Graphics Sports Krisrio Forcier Katie McVoy Production 
Viewpoint Brian Kessler 
A.J. Boyd Lab Tech Liz Lang 
The Ob,erver (USPS 591 2-4000) is publi,hcd Monda)' through Fri,lar excepc during exam and vacauon periods. The-Obscl""Ver ls a member of the Am,ciarcd Pre,s. All rcprodllction rights att reserved. 

"/ firmly believe that "ft will not he used race did not play a for bricks and part." mortar. It will be usedfor building Peter Agostino excellence." 
Roseland town attorney, on the arrest of four black Carolyn Woo Notre Dame students at dean of the College of 
Denny's Diner Business, on the $35 million Mendoza donation 
Compiled from U.Wire reports 



OUTSIDE THE DOME 
6 students charged in Ferris State student's death 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 

Charges have been issued to six Perris State University students in the wake of the alcohol relatP.d death of a freshman at the school two weeks ago. 
The charges leveled include two counts of involuntary manslaughter as well as furnishing alcohol to a minor causing death and furnishing alcohol to a minor. All three arc felonies, carrying maximum penal­ties of 15 years, 10 years and 60 days in jail respectively. The charges were brought by the Mecosta County prosecuting attorneys office. and arraignments for the six students are expected rriday. The specific charges against each student will be announced then. "We support the prosecuting attorney's decision," said Kevin Courtney, the director of Big Rapids' Department of Public 
Illinois student treated for meningitis 
CII/\MPAIGN, Ill. 

A University ol' lllin()is student was treated and released during spring break for a bacterial infection that could have quickly led to meningitis. Brian Firfer, a freshman in engineering, was admitted to Carle Foundation Hospital March 10 with a 104­degree fever and rash. He was diagnosed with a Type B meningococcal infection. The bacterial infection can lead to meningitis -the infiammation of the lining of the brain and spinal cord -and meningococcemia, an infection that spreads throughout the body. Firfer said he first thought he had the nu and continued attending classes. The infection was controlled at the hospital because it was caught shortly after the symp­toms appeared, said McKinley Health Center Medical Director Dr. David Lawrance. If the infection is not caught in its early stages, it can lead to the loss of limbs or death. Firfer said he was treated with intra­venous antibiotics and was released in good condition March 14. Lawrance said Firfer's fever was moni­tored at the hospital, but that there were no tests that could be done to show how well the treatment was working. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather@-forecast for tlaylime conditions and high temperature:; 
H L Tuesday 
41 33 Wednesday 48 35 Thursday 
37 Friday, 55 38 Saturday . /~ 56 41 
(J-/\y...-·,..~..,.,,,.... ....'/ '\ ' "... ' 



Q,Q,~p~Q(f~~ 
Showers T~stmms Rafn Ffu"fes Snow fee sunny Pt Cloudy Cfoudy Via AssoeiaMd Press Graph1csN6i 
"We are saddened not only by his death, but also the harm it will bring to the olher students involved in the incident." 
Daniel Burcham vice president of student affairs 
Safety, which has handled the inves­tigation. 
The students, whose names have not been released, are members of the underground fraternity known as the Knights of College Lore or the Knights of College LPadcrship that 19-year-old Stephen Petz had been in the prncess of pledging. rratcrnity members were unable to wake Petz after a night of drinking and took 
··1 halle full confidence that it is going to run very well. The basic goal is to serve as many students as possible." 
Matt Mamak chief of staff, on the revival of SafeRide 

FSU student killed in softball game 
TALLAHASSEE. Fla. 

Last Thursday, a softball accident claimed the lifo or Florida State freshman Ryan L'llomme. L'llomme, 18, who was a member of the Pike fraternity, was running from first to second base, when a thrown softball struck him in the temple. The accident occurred in the fourth inning of an intramural game between the Pikr, and Chi Phi fraternities on Wednesday evening. "It was a freak accident, I've been in sports all my life and I've never seen anything like it before," Kyle Steinky, Pike's athletics chairman, said. L'Homme initially tried to shake the injury off. After he was hit. he looked dazed and out of it, we sat him on the ground and tried to ask him questions." Steinky said. Despite e!TorL'i by people on the field to keep L'Homme up and aware, he never regained conscious­ness. L'Homme was rushed to Tallahassee Memorial Hospital, where he immediately underwent surgery. A group, which grew to more than 200 people, stood vigil through out the night hoping that L'Homme would pull through. The group knew as of Wednesday night that even if L'I-lomme were to survive the accident he would still be brain dead. L'Homme died on Thursday afternoon. leaving family and friends hurt and in disbelief. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, March 28. 
101-.I:;, 90s 
-,; FRONTS;

40s ,,.... ......... 
~ 

@ 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. COLO WARM STATIONARY 
Prtu/Jff: 
...,,,

® © . ~ . . Ll. .. ·ri. ¼(~, 
Hl-gh Low Showers Rain T·&lorms Flurriea Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy ViaAs~Press 
Atlanta  71  47  Las Vegas  72  53  Portland  53  38  
Baltimore  56  40  Memphis  68  46  Sacramento  69  45  
Boston  50  43  Milwaukee  44  35  SI. Louis  55  37  
Chicago  44  35  New Yori<  58  44  Tampa  BO  62  
Houston  84  67  Philadelphia  60  43  Wash DC  60  42  

him to the hospital, where he was declared dead. Toxicology reports found his blood alcohol content to be .42 percent, more than four times the legal threshold for drunkennnss. 
"First of all, we want to express our sympathy to the family of Stephen Petz. We are saddened not only by his death, but also the harm it will bring to the other students involved with the incident. We will follow up after tlrn arraignment and carry out our own activities within our· student judicial services process," said Daniel Burcham, FSU's vice presidp,nt ol' student affairs in a written statement. 
Last year, student Adriene Allen died after falling from a second-fioor window at a party. The incident resulted in a misdemeanor convic­tion against one student for furnish­ing alcohol to a minor. 
"John Paul's vision is ofa Jerusalem that serves as the meeting place of heaven and earth." 
Rabbi Michael Signer Notre Dame theology professor, on the pope's pilgrimage 

Tuesday, March 28, 2000 17Je Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Council recomntends continued alumnae involvement 
to Saint Mary's president status of the college and how Many faculty members com­serve as field supervisors, field By MOLLY McVOY Marilou Eldred about the future improvements could be made. mented on how invaluable infor­instructors. and field organizers. S:iint '.'1hry's Edirnr or the College and alumnae con­The alumnae attended classes mal connections to alumnae arc Alumnae have continued to con­
tributions. on Friday and met with a panel to the students; and how the nect our students to various geo­
The Presidenl's l\lumnae The coundl consists of 15 past of faculty from ear,h department alumnae arc one of the best graphical communities, often Advisory Council met lhis week­and recent Saint '.Vlal'y's alum­in the College to discuss how l'esources for promoting the col­giving information about gradu­ond to make recommendations nae who Kathercd to discuss the alumnae could help their efforts. lege. ate programs, volunteer activi­
What It Takes To Be Honest In A Place Like This: 
A personal discussion about homosexuality, activism, and hope for change at Notre Dame 
Wednesday, March 29 
8:00 pm Breen-Phillips 24-Hour Lounge 
1 Alyssa Hellrung is a senior English and Gender Studies Major. She has been a member of 
1 
the Standing Committee for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs for three years and was 1998­
1999 Co-chair of OUTreachND. Alyssa has given talks and participated in various forums 
about issues relating to homosexuality since her first year at Notre Dame in hopes of creating 
a greater awareness of these issues on campus. 
SPONSORED BY BREEN-PHILLIPS HALL 
Chris Burke 





''CORKY'' 
From Life Goes On 
Weclnesclcty, March 29, 7 pm Room 102 -De Bartolo Hall 
I I 
I


R\\,\.1 FREE Admission 
I 
Sponsored by Best Buddies and Badin Hall 
___ j 
"The power of graduating ties, and other career opportuni­from an all-women college is ties." something the alumnae mied to The graduates can also help get across," said Toni Barstis, update departments so the skills associate chemistry professor. "I and concepts they teach are was impressed with the alum­compatible with the needs of the nae of Saint Mary's. I continue work force and community after to be amazed by these women." graduation. Tho math depart­
Faculty also agmed that alum­ment instituted the statistics and nae serve as mentors to r:urrent actuarial mathematics major in Saint Mary's students. part because of a suggestion 
"Alumnae also serve as role from alumnae about the need models through their leadership, for that type of mathematical serving as community builders, training. sharing their knowledge with "We've been using alumnae students as students make life over the past several years to r,hoices," said Fran lrnlp us," said Don Miller, chair Kominkiewicz, director of the of the math department. "We Social Work Program. stav in touch with our alumnae 
Barstis agreed that alumnae and look for suggestions about serve in an important way as our program." mentors. T h e 
"I would alumnae say that the a I s o
"The power ofgraduating
theme of the attended 
panel was from an all-women college is group that there something the alumnae need sessions 
are a variety d i s ­
to get across. I was impressed
of ways to ... cussing
with the alumnae ofSaint
mentor stu­topics dents," she Mary's. I continue to be including said. "We're the eco­
amazed by these women." 
not asking nomic the alumnae autono­for their Toni Barstis my of 
financial associate chemistry professor women. help or to career come [to choices, S a i n t a n d Mary's) for a whole day -but if moving through the "glass ceil­they'd be able to serve as a ing." mentor." While meeting with Eldred, Kominkiewicz also explained they discussed partnerships and that programs such as social initiatives to help Saint Mary's work, which have strong ties to students in the corporate world the community, appreciate of the future. They also men­alumnae support. tioned specific corporate boards "Through our Social Work and national boards for Eldred Advisory Board, alumnae con­or other senior officers of the tribute to the program's ability College to sit on, and what cor­to stay connected to the commu­porations could assist Saint nity," she said. "Alumnae often Mary's with diversity programs. 

"ornerver Quine. 
1pttp:ffwwvv. nd. edu/---observer 
':·i.: 
-

ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS! 
Interested in the 



Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships? 
Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will discuss the scholarships and inform you of deadline dates and the Fall application process on 
Monday, April 3, 2000 
6:00 p.m. 101 Law School 
If you are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of informa­tion may be obtained in 102-B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 
! 
_____ J 
• 
page 4 The Obsaver . CAMPUS NEWS TuesJay, March 28, 2000 


Leukeinia 
continued from page I 

proplP livr ,\"ith tht' rliseasP, according to the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society. EvPrv war more than 22.000 pt>ople die from· it. but over the past 39 years bono marrow Lrausplants have helµed to triple tlH' survival rate arrwng-lPukrmia patients. 
Transplant treatment 

A horn~ marrow transplant is one of tlw only rnal cures fnr palicnt.s with lr.ukf1mia. 1\ccording to the NMDP. "marrow is found in the cavitit~S of tlrn bodv's bones. It resembles blood and r.ontains st.em !'.el.ls. which produf'.e red the ages of 18 and 60 and havfl a clean bill of health. The actua.l rP.gistration requires only a small blood sample. 
"The ma_jority or people who have joined th<! registry are Caucasian -we have a greal need for minoriLies. We highly encourage minorities especially to considerato it," sho said. "/\lso. with Ca ucasia11s we constantly nend a refur­bishing of lhe supply." 
/\II potential donors, however. must be preparnd for the cliancn that they may someday be called upon to possibly save someone's life. AILhough no oriti on !he registry is rnquirerl to donate if a match is made, the NMDP encourag0s any potential voluntncr donors to register only it" they ar,-\ willing to commit. The d1anccs of matr.hing with a patient am slim, lmL µossiblH. 
Zahm llall rnctor Father Jim l.il~S said 
cells. white cells and other blood compo­110nts." 
/\ bu11e marrov. transplant replaces diseased marrow with he.althy mar­row. which fs what makes the process so vital to patients battling tho disf'aSf'. 
"On any given day there are usually 3,000 people with a disease whose physi­cians will search the 

"The worst ofit is an achy feeling in your hind quarter for a few days -that's it. That which is taken from you is restored naturally in four to six weeks." 
Father Jim Lies rector, Zahm Hall 

the actual dona­tion of marrow is a relntively pain­less proC1~dure. 
"Basically. the procedure itself requires a local anesthetic, and a need le is insert­ed into the pelvic bo1w and the marrow is drawn out," hr. said. 
"The worst of it is an achy feel­ing in your hind 
registry for a match," Robbins said. quarter for a few days -that's it," he Participating in Lhe NMDP is painless said. "That which is taken from you is and quick. Volunteers must be between restored naturally in !'our to six weeks." 


Drive 
continued from page 1 
ported, and as a community we need to pull together." 
Although an anonymous donor for Conor has been locat­ed from a registry of morn than three million potential donors, the need for morn donors is alwavs there. 
"Tim practical reality is that there are 
not enough donors available," Lies said. "While you may not match for Conor, you mav one 

day be a Murphy match for someone else -someone who is some­one's Conor." 
In addition to the drive, mem­bers of the Notre Dame commu­nity have found other ways to support Murphy. Zahm has hosted Masses and lrnld a 24­hou r vigil for him and put together a banner, Lies said. Also. several of Murphy's friends have visited him blood sample is about $400. The United States government subsidizes to the amount of $300. The remaining $100 cost has to paid for by either the donor or the sponsor," Lins said. "Our attempts to raise money are ways or assuring that stu­dents don't have to pay. We will raise as much as we can so the drive will go on as long as possi­ble." 
Lies lends the most thanks to the Office of Student Affairs and Campus Ministry for their dona­tions. Other groups, however, have contributed as well. The Hall Presidents' Council has put together funds, and the London Program raised more than $700. 
"They have already raised a ton of money," Remus said. 

At the drive, donors will be asked for a $10 donation to defray the cost of the proce­dure. Lies stressed, however, that this fee will be easily waived for those who cannot contribute monetarilv. . Lies said that he understands 
it will be impossible for every­
one to donate Wednesday, but 
he said that prayer can be just 
as helpful. 
"If you do nothing else for Conor, I would hope that you can just pray for him," Lies said. "The Grotto is a very special 

on week­"Conor suggested the place to him, ends. so if you can
drive and he is all for
"Con or just stop there 
suggested it -he knows your for a momnnt tlrn drive blood can save a life. to reflect that 
and he is cill would mean a
He has made a lot of
for it -he lot to him. 
knows your people think twice "[Murphy's blood can about a lot ofthings." sickness] has 
save a life," changed per­said sopho­spectives and 
Wes Jacobs 
more Wes furthered our Jacobs, a friend of Murphy understanding 
friend of Murphy's "Ile has made a lot or people think twice about a lot of things." 
"!In is prntty excited about it. fl was suggestion that rcgarrl­less [of his finding a donor! wr, have tlw drive." said sophomore friend George Remus 
Original concerns surround­ing the drive centered on a la<'k of funds. 
"The cost for providing lhis 
about what 
matters and what is important." he said. 
Whnt matters especially is Conor's full recovery, according to Lies. 
"Presently Conor is being treated for a virus and lhe hope would be that -if tlrn match goes forward -he could begin a live-day series of clrnrnotlwrn­py and radiation to preparn himself for the transplant," he said. 

Zahm sophomore J()hn LeBlanc had ducing new cells, aecording to the an uncle who underwent the donation NMnP. A notieP.able rise in the patient's process when he was called upon as an white blood cell count is the lirst sign 
ideal matd1 for a patinnl suffering from leukemia. 
"l do1i"t think Im said it was tlrnt bad. lie had to stav in the hos­pi tai" for just a nighl," Im said. 
The procedure 
Tim mystery surrounding the succnss of I.Jone marrow trans­
"/ think it is a great credit lo lhe University to host this drive beacuse it is needed and palienl-focused." 
Marcia Robbins coordinator, 
National Marrow Donor Program 
plants r.au be described as a mirnclo. 
The patient is given a lethal dose of clwmothPrapy and radiation to kill off their c1\lls. In doing so their immune sys­tem is depleted. so they have to br, iso­latod. Once the patient has gone through this rngimn, it puts him in a vulnnrable state>, so timing is essentiaL At this point it would most likely be fatal for lhe palitmt if the donor were to back out, a\;'onling to, nxperts. . . 
A donors bone marrow 1s put 111 through the patient's IV and miracu­lously the body accPpts the new marrow and begins manufacturing new marrow ol'its own," Hobbins said. 
Once the donated marrow enters the patient's circulatory systnm, it takes about one month to see the first evi­dence of a "gral'L," meaning that the marrow has begun to work and is pro-that a graft has occurred. 
Still, in some cases, the donated marrow rejects the patient's I.Jody. an oppositr, elfoct of a heart or liver trans­pl a II t, whore the body rejects the or).{an. This is part of tho risk in under­going such a proce­duro. 
"Born• marrow is an organ in the 
Don't Stall, Call 911 ! AmcA~.:~ct!~~,r~ 0 

©2000, American Heart Association 
body. We want a largP proliforntion or st<'m cells for a successful transplant. Because ol' tlw reverse situalion the pro­cedure is risky," Hobbins said. 
Just Iiko any othflr organ transplant, patients arc given a wide range of drugs lo fight off rejflction. 
"We do everything we can to make the match work," Hobbins said. 
The donations from Notre Dame's bone marrow drive tomorrow will help more than just patients with leukemia. Hobbins said that 25 percent or bone marrow transplants go to people suffor­ing from other blond diseases. such as Hodgkins, sir.kin coll anemia and lym­phomas. 
"I think it is a great credit to the University to host this drive because it is needed aud patient-focused," she said. 
,_ 
F,,.._.r:· r g 1-u:,-,1r• Dtl-iease and Stroke 
Every second counts! New treatments for heart attack and stroke can make a difference if you act fast. The quicker you get help, the better your chances of saving your life. 



r~ NOTRE DAME 
.._.. FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
For People. Not for Profit. 
~ 
~ Campus Locations: 
~ Full Service: 

s 
Reckers Douglas Road Office 
Cash Dispenser Only: 
IT'S HERE: 
A NE\NATM, 
LOOK FOR IT IN THE NORTH DINING HALL! 

.. , 
;1····............·.····.···.:......•.·
.. ·· 
.c\., ·=··,.,_• 
. ·:w







orld 



Tuesday, March 28, 2000 COMPILED 1--001\1 THE 0BSEKVER WlKE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Mass grave reveals 73 more cult-related deaths 
tllJ(;/\ZI, Uganda 
Prison laborers dug layrr-by-layer through rolling corps1•s Monday. pulling tlozp11s of hodi1:s f'rom a mass gravr at It sugarcane field -tlw third sct'lll~ or carnage linkrd lo a doomsdav {'Ult. TIH' laborPrs unnart.hcd 7.1 })(ldi<'s. i.nc!ucling tvvo dozPn r·hildrrn and babiPs. l'rom Lh1• l'inld bPlonging Lo a dt•frock1'd Calhnlir priPst who was one ol' the \Pt'l ll'adcrs. Tlw grim disrovory brings tho number of cu!L-rolatnd dt1 aths that pulir-e hav<' r·onllrmt!d to 5(,2 sinrn a March 17 lire in ,t makt1shiI't chu1·rl.1. Two othPr ctm1po1111ds in soutlnvf'st11rn Uganda hrlonging to t.hc sect rPmainrd to lw PX,tmi1wd. lamt's Bangirana. a lorn! polirP of'l'irial. said lc.lP Monday that \"msn't rNlain that all lh(' bndi('s of S\'Ct vi,·­tims had brPn l'ound. 

Listeria contamination forces 
Sara Lee hot dog recalJ 
WAS! IINGTOl\l 
Tlw Sara I.Pt' Corp. has rncallr.d 34.500 pounds or Ball Park-brand hot dogs bec.ausC' thry might br' c:ontaminatPd with bactrria that ran caus<' lift.-thrPalPning inl'Pctions. No ill­nc'ssl's havP bP<'n rPpDrtcd in co111wction wilh tlw hot dogs. Sara Lt'P spokrswoman Thernsa IIPrlPvsPn said :vlondav. Thr1 n1call was ord('rPd artPr a militarv lrrboratorv found lis­lC'ria monocytogPnes ·in hot dogs that l1ad bPt'n distributPd to an .\rmv <·ommissarv. she said. Tlw hot dogs. which V\:C!rc' pac:kaged Jan. 
2:i at a plant in Philadelphia, WPrn distributed to rnmmissaries and retail establishments in Florida. :\fissouri. '.\lnw York. Virginia, Ohio. ConnnctiruL Oklahoma. Drlaware. Kansas. ''kbr,tska. Texas, P1:nnsylvania. New Jersey. MassachuscUs and Maryland. 

DeBartolo testifies against ex-Gov. in racketeering trial 
BATON noUGE, La. 
Former San Francisco 49ers owner and !\otrf' Damr b01rnl'artor Eddie DcBartolo Jr. trslifiPd Monday that ex-Gov. Edwin Edwards demandPd and rernived $400.000 from him to Pnsurc: that his application i"or a riverboat casino lic(\llSe would be approV<'d. A day after DrBartolo allr\gedly gavr the form11r four-term governor the monny -in stacks of $100 bills in a briefcase at tlw San Francisco airport ­tlw LoLtisiana gambling board unanimously awarded a liccnsf' to DeBartolo. DPBartolo's testimony has bccn the most anticipated in Edwards' federal racketeering trial. not only bccausr lw is onf' of th'" richest men in the countrv and a former NFL team owner. but also b"nrausn ht! is th(: only witness who rlaims Edwards himsPlf' extorted money and colll:ct<•d it. 

liiiii#IJDMiiJI
Dow AMEx: 
1023.87 ]ONES ·8·64 Nasdaq:
-86.90 

41)58.56 
-.J 47 
!\\SE: 
649.14 
-336 


S&P 500: Composite 
\'olunir;
1523.86

11025.80 (;J,200,000,000
-3.60 

VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY 'rIC"KE!R "'• C:HANGE i CH'.ANGE PRICE 
f,l'IC'ROSOF'T' COF'.P ClSICO SHTD.S  M5'F1' i:;:sco  -b. B1 -tO .86  -7,l"i2i5 ...o. 6tl50  104. (16 eo. o,  
OEt.L COMPUTER  DELr.  +.2.S6  •1.44.1.5  51.U  
~,er WORLOC<J~ IN  WCOI!,  +0 .71  .. 0..12~1  4!.0C  
AMBJUC'.'1\. OtH,1:fl!:  AOL  ,-4 .11  +2.9400  14,H  
QUALCOMM a1c  QCCM  +J .01  •2  94 00  148.94  
AT&T COfl.I"  T  .,._2 ,'65  .+-1. ';;li00  60. 31  
INT~l, CullP  lNTC  +-2.H  +'3. fi.275  142.09  
COMPAQ COMPUTER  CPQ  .-2 .OS  +0.5900  29. 34  
ORACLE CORi  ORCL  +l.66  +1.4400  88.H  


any court appeals rapidly would do next. She said prepared to form a human 
Associated Press 

and promise to surrender the department would chain around the home if MIAMI 
Elian for return to his send the family a letter the government tries to The Justice Department 
father in Cuba if they lose. outlining its plans. remove the child and send threatened to take Elian· 
On Monday. the relatives The agency has made it him back to his father in Gonzalez from his Miami 
filed their latest appeal -clear would not want to do Cuba. relatives Monday, as a 
and asked that the case anything to traumatize the "There are a lot of peo­rrowd gathered outside 
get expedited handling -boy or provoke Miami's ple who aren't willing to the boy's Little Havana 
but they have not large Cuban community. kill but are willing to die home, readv to form a 
addressed the other Meanwhile, about 100 only for the child's rights,"human rhain ·if necessarv. 
demand. people gathered outside said Raul Sanchez, head The risk of a confronta­"That being so, the INS Elian's home, though by of the Demorracytinh over the 6-year-nld 
is under no obligation to evening the crowd had Movement. appeared to grow as the 
maintain the current dwindled to fewer than In an apparent effort to government and the 
arrangement." the gov­50. Someone put a 15-foot increase American sup­Miami relatives traded ernment wrote in banner in front of the port for their battle to accusations. The relatives 
response, referring to the house with a drawing of keep Elian, the child's rel­were so worried that Elian 
deal giving Elian's great­Elian and a message: "I atives last week allowed would be taken away that 
uncle custody in the just want to live in free­ABC's Diane Sawyer to they kept him home from 
meantime. dom." spend two days with Elian. srhool. Justice Department Many of the protesters The result was his first Attorney General Janet 
spokeswoman Carole responded to a call by the extended interview, which Reno has demanded that 
Florman would not say Democracv l\ilovement, an aired Monday on "Good the Miami relatives pursue 
what the government anti-Castio group, to be Morning America." 
COLUMBIA 

Leftist rebels kill 24 police, 6 civilians 
Associated Press 

BOGOTA 
(nllicling the heaviest government rasualtiPs in months, leftist rebels killed at least 24 poliremcn and sol­diers in a snrics of attar.ks sim~e the weekend. 
Vive rebels from the country's largest leftist insu rgPncy. thf' Rcvolutionarv Armed Forres of Colombia. 01: FABC. were also reported killed in the fighting, which raged in two fishing villages near the border with Panama and a rPgion in the South American country's far north. 
Twcnty•one police officers died try­ing to repel a :i6-hour rebel assault on Vigia de! ruertc, 230 miles from Bogota. that began on Saturday. Six civilians were also killed. including mayor Pastor Perea and two young children. thP Antioquia state govern­ment reported. 
National police chief Gen. Rosso Jose Serrano reported after visiting ihe destroyed town Monday that eight of the slain officers rcrcivcd gunshots to the head at close range. 
Troops regained conLrol or the town of 1.200 residents Sundav night, and found that rebel machiue·­gun fire and inaccurate homemade 
missiles had destroyed the churrh, the mayor's offire. the police bar­rncks, the telephone company and ten houses located near the town plaza. 
In thP neighboring town of' 13ojaya, Serrano reported seven po!icP. miss­ing and presumed to have been taken prisoner by the FAHC. 
No rebrl deaths were rnport<!d in the battle for the two towns, which straddle opposite hanks of the Atrato Hiver. a strategic waterway to the Caribbean that is hotly contested by rebels and rival right-wing paramili­tary groups. The region is a major arms and drug smuggling corridor. 


Tuesday, March 27, 2000 

page 6 The Observer . NEWS 

Topping Pizza 
every tuesday 
271-0300 
Elian denies ntother's death in first interview 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 

As the political storm ovrr his futun• kept swirling, Elian Gonzalez sairt in his first lengthy interview that he doesn't really believe his mother died when the boat earning thC\m to Florida sank. 
Tht' 6-year-old Cuban boy spoke with Diane Savvyer in a segment shown on :\BC's "Good '.vlorning America" Monday, raising ques­tions about the propriety of' !nll'r­viewing someone so young. The Cuban government sent a leltnr of protest to ABC on Monday. 
lie was macfo available by his Miami relatives as they run short of' legal options to aYoid sending him back to his father in Cuba. They are appealing a fcdrral judge's ruling affirming the gov­ernm1rnt decision to send him home. 
Sawyer broughl along a child psychiatrist ,vho speaks Spanish for thr interviPw, and Elian's cousin also translatrd. 
Flian dnm crayon picttm•s of the voyage in which his moi.hcr nnd 10 other people drowned. lie first drew a wavy !inn rnpresPnting waves, then a leaping dolphin ­lw has told people that dolphins protected him from sharks and boosted him up when he slipped down into the water from an inner tube. 
He dre\v himself as a stick figure on the inner tube, and then sketched a boat with people inside. He told of the boat having engine trouble and slowly sinking, and of attPmpts to bail it out. 
Asked what happened to the 
boat, he said softly: "Water came 
in.0 
lie drew thfl waves higher and higher, covering the boat. El.ian insisted his mother sur­vived. 
"!\1y mother is not in heaven, not lost." he said in Spanish through his cousin Marislpysis Gonzalez. "She must have b()Cll picked up here in Miami somewlrnrP. Sho must have lost her momory, nml just doesn't know I'm here." 
During his hours floating alonn in the inner tubo, Elian said he was prayin!I; for survival. Marisleysis translat0d the pra~mr: "Gurtrdian angel, sweet compauiou, don't leave my side, day or night. for ii' you do, J will be lost." 
Sawyer said ABC thought long and hard about how to do Urn intcr,icw. Sim said by ABC's calcu­lation, them havn benn 11,984 articles written about tlrn case and "not one of' us has sat down and looked into his eyes." 
Sawyur did t11at, lc-aning nl'xt to Elian ;ts he made his drawings and allowing him to shoot Silly String into her hair. She called him bub­bly. wry bri!{ht and "inlinitnly curi­ous." 
Not all journalists bclievn it is proper to interview young childrnn. NBC's competing "Today" show. for example, did not pursue an interview with Elian IJp,cause it did not believe it was appropriate lo talk to a 6-year-old. 
Several networks, including NBC, 
requested interviews with Elian, 
said Armando Gutierrez, 
spokesman for Elian's Miami rela­
tives. lie said he was not sum 
whetlwr NBC's rnquest was spm:i!i­
cally from "Today." 

SATU RD A Y, APR I L 2 9 
1: 0 0 P. M . AT SA INT M A RY'S LAKE 
Get your registration packets from your Hall President. Regi6tration is due at the Captain's Meeting on Wednesday April 18th at the Montgomery Theatre in Lafortune at 7:00 p.m. 
Come see the kickofl concert: 
ij~]rMRffS ~l~G[~ 
FridatJ 
April '28 4:30-730 p.m. SouthQua.d 
Regatta Web5ite: 
http:l!www.nd.edu/~fisherlregattal 
¦ 

Call today and 11am-2am sun-thurs mention this ad!! 11am-Jam fri-sat 
Tuesday, March 28, 2000 
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
IRAQ 
Hussein's son set to energize new parliament system 
parliamPnt expected to be !igure who was making his for­expected to win a seat., which tions to the Revolutionary
Associated Press 
energized by the presence of' mal political debut -was will help him begin to build a Command Council he beads. BAGHDl\ll President Saddam Hussein's among 512 candirlatos running formal power base. It has little inf1uencc over the Voting was brisk and orderly eldest son and heir apparent. for 220 seats in the National The 36-year-old Odai voted sanctions. which can be lifted Monday as Iraqis choose a new Odai Hussein -a powerful Assembly. He was widely shortly before polls closed at 8 only if Iraq convinces the U.N. 
Donor Drive 
For 

Conor J. Murphy 
Please sign up and be tested for the National Bone Marrow Registry. 
Wednesday March 29, 2000 9:00 a.m.-3:00 p.m. The Lafortune Ballroom 
Make yourself available to save someoneJs life! A $10 donation is encouraged to offset the usual cost of $96. Sign-ups and testing will be processed on a first-come, first-served basis. 
For More Details Contact Fr. Jim Lies, C.S.C. at Lies.4@nd.edu 
p.m., roaring up in a con­voy of luxury cars and entering the polling station in an upscale neighbor­hood. surrounded by guards wearing business suits and toting automatic weapons. 
Wearing a traditional black robe trimmed in gold and a (lowing white head­dress, Odai walked with difficulty as a result of injuries suffered in a l 996 assassination attempt. 
He said he would do "whatever brings good to the great Iraqi people," after pulling his ballot from a por:ket and dropping it into the box. lie said he would work to bring Iraq the multiparty system his father promised a decade . ago, but dirl not elaborate. 
While critics dismiss Iraq's democracy as a sham, Iraqis used the vote to express genuine fears and hopes. 
Khuder Murad Atti, whose 11-year-old son has leukemia, said he hopes a new parliament will help lift an international trade embargo against Iraq imposed to punish Saddam for invading Kuwait in 1990. 
"By putting honest people into the National Assembly ... we can lift the embargo as soon as possible," said Atti. 
The National Assembly is elected after a strictly con­trolled campaign and seen as a rubber stamp for Saddam. doing little more than making recommenda-Security Council that it bas sur­rendered its nuclear, Liological and chemir:al weapons pro­grams, a condition Iraq insists it has fulfilled. 
The United States accuses Iraq of hiding weapons and has worked to ensure that sanc­tions remain in plar:,~, despite increasing cr.iticism f'rom around the world that thAy have crippled the Iraqi econo­my and done little to hurt Saddam. 
Iraq is permitted to buy food and medicine under a U.N. pro­gram r:reated in 1996 that allows Iraq to export oil through U.N.-controlled sales, provided the proceeds be used for humanitarian supplies. 
Even so. with their er:unomy weakened by sanctions and war, the Iraqi middle class has been stripped of its buying power. 
Atti retired from a civil ser­vir:e job to try to make more money as a free-lance dealer in used goods. But he was selling most of his own household fur­niture a day before the vote. Ile needed to raise cash for his 11­year-old son's treatment for leukemia. which he said cost about $100 every 20 days. J\.tti, who has seven other children, said he earns less than $10 a month. 
Turnout was reported high during 12 hours of voting at 1,574 stations across the coun­try. Failing to vote could be seen as an expression of oppo­sition to a government that tol­erates little dissent and has portrayed the balloting as a sig­nal to the West of its determi­nation in the face of interna­tional isolation. 

CENTER FOR 

We cannot choose whether to engage with the world, only how to. 
SOCIAL 

-Stephen Batchelor
CONCERNS 

Appal•chia Seminar: Washington Seminar: 
Alan Ahles Corinne Aoyagi Zach Allen Patrick Brennan
Congratulations and thanks to the over 130 participants of the 
Ashley Ameika JoAnna Deeter 
Luke Archibald Thomas Enright Cheryl Asci Mary Hoopes Kathryn Ball Elizabeth
Appalachia Seminar Stephen Baranowski Kahling Catherine Bateson Suzanne Kellman
Civil Rights & Social Change Seminar
Kevin Berrill Rodrigo Anthony Bondi Medrano Colin Boylan Megan Mikula
L'Arche Seminar Cheryl Bradley Molly Posedel Derrick Bravo Chad Silker
Migrant Experiences Seminar
Sharon Bui Elizabeth Burnett 

Christopher Cambic Migrant
Washington Seminar 
Michael Collins Seminar: 
Jonathan Currie 

Kathryn Demb• Louis Amorosa 
Lisa Demidovich l<ristina Campbell
who represented The University of Notre Dame and Saint 
Kristin Devany Joanna Garcia 
James DiStefano Margaret Hamilton
Mary's College during Spring Break in service and experiential 
Nathan Doyle Margaret Laracy 
Patricia Drummey Brian Noon
learning at 15 sites across the nation. Megan Farrell Shaun O'Donnell Laura Gaines Rex Rallanka James Gholson Jon Spiegel Colin Grady Michael Sullivan Megan Griffin Sharon Watson Audra Hagan Thomas Hall 
Molly Herbe  Rachel Lauzon  Katie Mylan  Bradley Richards  Matthew Siegel  Civil Rights Seminar:  Civil Rights Seminar.  L'Arclte Seminar.  
Brian Hobbins Jessica Howell  Keagan Lee Jim Madden  Timothy O'Brien Colleen O'Connor  Carolyn Roderick Nicholas Rosato  Deborah Stepp Judson Strauclt  Michelle Barton  Andrew Olejnik  Matthew Bohnenkamp  
Shane Hudnall J. BrianJochum  Kathryn Malpass Sean Markey  Brian O'Donnell Erin O'Keefe  Jeffrey Russ Casey Russell  Whitney TI,ompson Susan Tilton  Andrew Boyd Jenniler Clark  Michael Seeley Brian Simolon  James Chisholm Michael Cochran  
Carol-Luc Jonard  Jared Marx  Teresa O'Neill  Peter Ryan  Lucie Twrotte  Maren Diamante  Vern Walker  Colleen Lawler  
Nora Jones  Christina Mazurkiewicsz  Alexander Fagnani  Cherise SilllChez.-YW1d  Derek Vollmer  Adam Kapadn.kas  Jovan Willford  Rachel Soltis  
Patrick Kelly  Melissa Mcl11erney  Colleen Pepper  Jack Schneider  Jenny Wahoske  FrancfliCa Milles-Dave  Nancy Wong  
Mark Kirze..ler  Arute Moriarty  Stephanie Piehl  CatherineSchroeder  Erin West  
l<aren :Kosinski  \Daniel Morilla.  Benjamin Powers  John Scolaro  Ellen Wright  
Chiara Kruse  Stephanie Morris  Sara Rabe  Karen Seymour  Gregory Wright  
Sarah Lasseter  Megan Moses  Matt Reisenauer  Amanda Shock  David Young  

page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, l\1arch 28, 2000 
What does it really mean to "practice virtue?"
WHAT is THE 

I . 
u 
us IFE? 

. 

I s i T WORTH LivinG? 
And why would anyone try to live a"virtuous" life? 
When we listen to the media and the people around us talk about being successful in life, the word "virtue" doesn't usually get mentioned. And when it does come up, it can meet with aVERY cynical reception. So, living alife of virtue nowadays requires alot of courage. 
Using everyday examples, our two speakers will address the concerns of young people who might think that living avirtuous life is just about impossible. 

TUESDAY,  ffiARCH  2 8  ,  2 0 0 0  
7!30  P.m.  
I 3  6  DEBARTOLO  HALL  

Tim Gray is Assistant Professor of Sacred Scripture at Michaelann Martin holds aMaster's Degree in Christendom Collegeiocated in Front Royal and Alexandria, Education from Pepperdine University. She is the author of Virginia. He is author of Mission of the Messiah and co-author Women of Grace: A Bible Study for Women, and co-author of Catholic For a Reason: Scripture and the Mystery of the of Catholic Parent Book of Feasts: Celebrating /he Church Family of God, and he is currently working on a Bible study for Year in Your Family. She is currently a featured columnist for men on the topic of virtue. both New Qovenant and Lay Witness magazines. 
Offered in Cooperation with:, Children of Mary • St. Thomas More Society Schubmehl-Prein Chair Endowment 
Antonio del Pollaiuolo, St. Sebastian. Finished 1475. Panel, 9'711 x 61811 • National Gallery, London. Commissioned by the Pucci family for the Oratory of S. Sebastiano at SS. Annunziata, Florence. 
Tuesday, March 28, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Senate views runendment to protect flag fro1n desecration 
desecration. Opponents used the Associated Pres, 
opportunity to bring up campaign finanr:f' rf'form, another issufl with

WASIIINCTO:\i 
elcdion-year repercussions.

llw Senate began another long-shot 
Those against the amendment pre­

n!'fort Mondav to amend the 
dirt"d the outr:ome would be similar to

Constitution to proWct the flag from 

cration statute 'They want to protect the flag, his failed drive and th<'n ruled for tlrn
everyone wants to do it. butfor
unconstitutional a Republican 
11ag protection law some reasons they are reluctant presidential 
passed by to correct the mistakes ofthe nomination. A. Congress. vote on
Supreme Court." 
The CitizPns McConnell and flag Alliance, a Hollings is pro-amendment Pat Brady scheduled for gronp of some 140 Tuesday.
Citizens Flag Alliance 
veterans and civic g-roups, said thrrw-f'ourths of Americans support a nag amendment and 49 state legislatures -all but Vermont -have passed resolutions 
urging Congress to pass the amend­
ment. 
Pat Brady, chairman of the alliance, said they were hopeful but weren't predicting victory. "They want to pro­tect the flag, everyone wants to do it, but !'or some reason they are reluctant to correct the mistakes of the Supreme Court." 
Several senators averse to changing the Constitution, led bv Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., offere·d a statutory alternative that would establish jail terms and fines for damaging a flag. They claimed the measure is writtr,n so as not to violate First Amendment 
The Leadership for Competitive Advantage and Personal Success Lecture Series presents: 
Mr. Jim McGuire President, NJK Holding Corporation 
"Leadership... A Continual Work-In-Process" 
Wednesday, March 29th 12:00-1:15 p.m. Jordan Auditorium College of Business University of Notre Dame 
Sponsored by the Department of Management 
that of the last Senate vote in 1995, when supporters fell three short of the two-thirds majority needed to amend the Constitution. 
The House surpassed thA two-thirds goal with a ~05-124 vote last June, but thfl Senate has always berrn the key hurdle to the amendment that has been pushed by Republicans since they won control of both houses of Congress in I 99S. ThreP-fourths uf' the states also musl ratify an amendment before it becomes part of the Constitution. 
The arn<'ndment is a one-sentence article stating: "Congress shall have power to prohibit Urn physical d1~sc­rration of the flag of the United States." 
The drive for the amendment dates hack to two 5-4 Supreme Court deci­sions in 1989 and 1990 that first struck down a Texas flag dese­
free speech rights. 

Two North Dakota Democrats, Sens. Ryron Dorgan and Kent Conrad. who are r:rucial to any hope of passing the amendmAnt, are supporting thA McConnell suhstituto. 
Sen. Ernest Hollings, D-S.C., is offer­ing an addition to the amendment that would give Congress the power to set reasonable limits on campaign contri­hutions. 
The Hollings provision, which also addresses the First Amendment issue that is a main argument of' thos() oppnsf,d to limiting campaign finance spending, has twicf' bcforn been defeated in the Senate. 
But the debale will provide an elec­tion-year platform for proponents of campaign finance changP, including Sen. John McCain. H-Ariz., who made the issue a key component or 
Scientist find gene linked to weight-gain 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Scientists have created strains of mice that can chow down on a high-fat diet with­out getting chubby. 
The researchers say their secret -a single gene ­might lead to a new obesity treatment for people. 
In its normal form, the gene, called HMGIC, apparently helps mice make more cells to store fat when they have been eating a fatty diet, researchers said. But the mice in the experiment had a defective vi>rsion of the gene. 
They apparently failed to creatA storage cells in response to the high-fat diet, and so avoided putting on weight. the researchers said in the April issue of the journal Nature (;eirntics. 
The finding could lead to a human obesity treatment if srientists can find a drug that interferes with the effect of the normal HMGIC gene, said Kiran Chada, a biochemistry professor at tlw Cniversity of Merlicine and Dentistry ot' New 
Sen. Tom 
Dasch le of 
South Dakota, the top Democrat in the Senate said he opposed the flag amendment because "it's our view that defending the Constitution is far more important" when it comes down to questions of personal freedoms. 
[t would be the "first time in 200 years that we would diminish the Bill of Rights," said Paul Tash, executive editor of the St. Petersburg Times and chairman of the freedom of informa­tion committee of the American Society of Newspaper Editors. 
With few actual cases of flag dese­cration, "it strikes me that there should be a much more compelling social problem that would cause us to take such a drastic .constitutional step," he said. 

Jersey and senior author of the paper. He is also president of a company formed to devel­op products related to the gene. 
Dr. Bradford Lowell, an obe­sity expert at Harvard Medical School, said it will take a lot more work to find out how promising Chada's approach would be for humans. 
Dr. Rudy Leibel, an obesity expert at Columbia University in New York, said if a person's supply of fat-storing cells were restricted, fat might build up in the liver instead. That could seriously interfere with liver function, he said. 
Chada said he has seen no sign of fatty liver buildup in the mice. 
Mice born with the genetic defort develop only about 10 percent of the normal amount of body fat but are otherwise nor1mil, Chada said. Mutant mice that ate a high-fat diet for six months didn't put on any more weight than mutants that ate a staudard diet. 
Normal mice, in contrast, did become obese on thn high-fat diet. All three groups of mice ate about the same amount. 
Tuesday, March 28, 2000

711e Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
page 10 
"Calling all Communities ofNotre Dame to Jubilee Debt Relief" 
TUESDAY, March 28, 2000 7:00 -9:00pm 
Ms. BAYYINAH BELLO-HAITI 
at Stapleton Lounge, Saint Mary's AND DR. ELIZEUS RUTEBEMBERWA -UGANDA FR. ToM McDERMOTT, CSC -UGANDA at Morrissey Hall, University of Notre Da111e 
April l, 2000 
Mr. Horst Kohler 
fntemational Monetary Fund 
700 191h Street. N. W. !Washington, D.C. 20431 
Dear Mr. Kohler: 

As President of the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross and in the spirit of the Jubilee Year, I am writing to request that you support an immediate suspension Kif the economic policies and practices that have caused poverty and suffering among the world's peoples. and damage to the environment. On the occa~ion or the first meetings of the governing bodies of the World Bank and the International Monetary fund in the 21" 
·entury. I further call on you to cancel the unpayable multilateral debt of the world's poorest countries and use the resources of the World Bank and IMF to finance this ancellation. 
I make these requests based on the call of our faith for solidarity among the members of the human family. genuine debt relief in the spirit of Jubilee. poverty reduction. and global economic justice. Pope John Paul II has been eloquent and unrelent­ing in his call for debt relief. He has noted thal the existence of d.ebt is "suffocating"' quite a few countries. and that "the Church in her pastoral concern cannot ignore this difficull situation..." I urge you. in your position as Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund. not lo ignore this si!Uation any longer hut to propose and support immediate and significant action lo cancel the dchl which seriously threatens the Jives of millions of people and the future of many nations. 
Archbishop Medardo Mazombwe of Zamhia has written that "TI1e debt problem is not simply an economic issue. Tl is fundamentally an ethical issue because it is a radically human problem. affecting the wcll-heing of families. I.he survival of the poor. the honds of community. and the security of the fntnre."' Ijoin with the Archhishop and with 
he Bishops of the United States. and religious leaders of many faiths throughonl the world urge you to take the opportunity of the spring meeting.~ to address !he dcht i,%nc. making he year 2000 a true Juhilce year for the world's people who need it most. We will experience a tmc Juhilce only when the well being of all. including. the 
'-'Orld's most vulnerable people and ecosystems. is given priority over macroeconomic adjustment and ncolihcral economic policy. I urge you. in the spirit of Juhilee justice. lo take courageous action now: ahandon the failed policy of strnctural adjustment and cancel the debt of the world's most heavily indebted countries. 
Sincerely. 

Sister Aline Marie Steuer. C.S.C. 
President of the Congregalion. 
Notre Dame. Indiana 

"Jubilee Debt Relief: A Call for 
Global Solidarity & Response" 
SATURDAY, April 1st 
3:00 -4:30pm ARCHBISHOP OSCAR RODRIGUEZ-HONDURAS 
SR. ESTHER AoJOA ENTSIWAH -GHANA 
DR. ELIZEUS RUTEBEMBERWA UGANDA 
@ Notre Dame1s Snite Auditorium. Please join us for 5:00PM Mass At the Basilica 
Tuesday, March 28, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Clinton plans legislative push as his tern1 nears close 
HPpublicans and those facing tough reform of the Medicare system; the presidential nominee George W. Hush
• President's agenda re-election fights this fall. drug benefit; new gun control laws; and hold on to their majority.
includes 'patients' bill On the flip side, Democratic candi­and campaign finance reform. Still, the White House hears whis­datPs may be able to capitalize in the On several of these issuf's, "there pers of Republican dissent.
of rights,' Medicare 
fall if lhfl GOP should thwart these am actually bipartisan majoritifls in The House cast a symbolic 218-205reform, gun control laws ideas. prcs\dential aides said. either the House or the Senate. and vote this month in favor of moving "I think thPy don't ,vant to just he the only thing ahead on gun
and campaign finance 
sflen as a Congress that can't producc holding it up control. Andreform any nial work on behalf of the in one place t w () 
American people," White House chief or the other He publicans
"If you look at what the Republicans
of staff John Podesta said in an inter­is that the in difficult re­
are proposing in their budget and
A,~ociatcd Press viow. Ropublican election races The current Congress has litlle to leadership what the president is proposing in his. attflnded a WASIJINGTON show for itself so far and has a repu­has not White House
they still look like different worlds." 
PrPsirl<·nt Clinton. convincetl that tation for partisan rancor, Podesta relented," pep rally for Bnpublir.an loaders in Congrflss are said. White House the Clinton out of st,ip with tho r,ountry. is capi­''They're going to have lo think adviser Joel Stephen Hess gun control 
talizing on about whether they want to run for Johnson said. presidential analyst at the Brookings Institution agenda. chanro to makt' re-election carrying that," Podesta Clinton is Rep. Brian inroads on gun said. "We think thPre is some lever­taking a dif-Bilbray, n­
\'ontrnl. i\lcdicaro age, and the president will bring that ferent tack Calil'.. who rd'orm and other to bear." with his push stood promi­issu<1s -or at least Republican strntBgists say thf' Whitl' for a new trade deal with China. In nently bflside Clinton at the rally, said to makt, lhoso !louse simply is trying to gain parti­that fight, thfl White House is allied bipartisan support exists for sevflral isstws work l'or Al san advantage and provide legislative with most Republicans and against Clinton priorities, but the president Gorp in Nov<•lllb(ir. footing for Vice President Gore's pres­many Democrats, labor unions and must be willing to compromise. 
On W(:d rws<lav. idential campaign. environmental and human rights "A lot will depend on how much he Clinton plans to "They're not really trying to groups. wants these things for his legacy," chart his lngislativn improve or better people's lives. In the months leading to the Bilbray said. agonda 1'01· the They're trying to crnate campaign Republican and Uemocratic conven• The other Republican at the event coming months. /\idr~s dnscribc his r:ommerr:ials," said John Czwartacki, tions this summer, Clinton plans to was Rep. Jim Rogan, R-Calif., one of spPech as more policy than politics, spokesman for hammer GOP thfl House managers who laid out the but politics is tho linchpin for what Senate Majority leaders' com• impeachmPnt case against Clinton in tlrn Whitn House viPws as an el!~ction Leader Trent rnitment to the Senate last year. ynar offering an unusual shot at Lou.. "A lot will depend on how much he large tax cuts Clinton has said he is eager to cnacling lrigislation important to the Clinton's strat­and opposition accomplish big things in his last year
wants these things for his legacy." 
prcsid1\nt and popular with voters. egy of public to new gun in office. But Stephen Hess, presiden­Usuallv. rontrovP-rsial matters have pressure will be control, aides tial analyst at the Brookings scant ··chance of cnactmPnt as a applied to all the Rep. Brian Bilbray said. Institution, sees little reason for national 1dcction approaclrns. main pieces of R-Calif. Republican White House optimism in this election 
By stoking public pnissurn for popu­domestic lflgisla­leaders have year. lar idi\aS such as adding a prescrip­ti on on his wish their own ver­"If you look at what the Republicans tion drug bemifit to Medicare, the list this spring, sions of mini­are proposing in their budget and While House hopes either to forct, aides said. mum wage legislation and other what the president is proposing in his, GOP leaders to negotiate or to rixecutc That list includes a "patients' bill of issues. They hope to deny campaign they still look like different worlds," an Pnd run with tlw help of' modBrate rights" for managed care patients; fodder to Gore, help presumptive GOP Hess said. 


www.nd.edu/~sub 
This 
week 
from SUB: 

Sleepy Hollow 
thursday 
1030pm 
friday 
and 
saturday 

8 &1030pm 
$2 at 

debartolo please no food or drink. also: 
Acoustic Cafe 
thursday 

9pm-12am 
in the Huddle. 
page 12 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, March 28, 2000 

page I:'> The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, March 28, 2000 
==============-----=----=----=--=======-==============-========================================================== 
COSTA RICA 
16-year-old arrested in spring break murders 
al11'.ge had bPt'.n used in llowelrs Associated Press slaying. A secm1d gun of the same caliber was used to kill Eagen, but S.\N JOSE has not lrnen recovered, Rojas 
l'olic1• have arrpsted a 16-vear-said. The suspect also was identi­olcl boy in the killing o( two find by two witnesses who claim ·\mcrican college women ni!ar ,1 he forced them at gunpoint to Costa Hican b<~ach town earlier burn the sports utility Vf'hide the this rnonth. authorities said victims had been using. f\1onday. A juvcnilu court in the 
WhilP police ar0 still trying to Caribbean city of Limon has ddPrmine a motive, they say ordered tho arrest of the boy Lhey'rn dose tu solving a case that under a two-month pruvisiona! has thr<'at<'ncd Costa Rica's imagr jail term v.ithout hail. If romict<'d, as a sal'P. pnacnful haven for he faces a maximum sentence of tourists. 15 years. 
Tlw suspnct -whose identity flojas told a news confet'enre was not released because he is a that the arrest is "an important minor -was arrested Saturday development in the case. We are night in Sixaola, a town on the very closr to solving it completo­burder of Panama. Judicial Police ly," he said. Dircctor Jorgn Hojas said. The deaths shocked this Central 
Hojas said policr also arc snek-American country. whosr rrputa­ing two otlmr main suspects, both tiun for safety and stability in an minors whom hn did not identify. otherwise turbulent region has 
The lrndios of Frnily Eagen, of' helped attract thousands or US. Ann Arhor. Michigan. and Emily retirees and about $1 billion a llowr.11, of l.nxington, Kentucky, year in tourism from more than 1 both l<J, W!\rn f'ound on llw side of million tourists. a highway March 13 rn~ar the Howell had bef'n in Costa Rica town of Cahuita. 90 milns <)ast of working on a photography project San Jose. Both had been shot. for her studies at Ohio's Antioch 
Acquaintances of the suspect College. Eagen, who withdrew told police lw later gave them the l'rom Antioch in August, was visit­. 380-caliber handgun that police ing llowell. 
Vitamin may hurt cancer victims 
adherents, in part because it In 1993, Go!de's team dis­
Associated P.ress 

is an antioxidant, a sub­covered how vitamin C gets stance that protects the bndy into human cells. They found 
TAl\lPA, Fla. 
from potentially harmful that an oxidized form of vit­
Cancr.r patients who take oxygen particles known as amin C called dehydroascor­large doses of vitamin C in 
fr(le radicals. Oxidation -bic acid enters cells through_
the hope of a cure might 
the same process that rusts the same opening used byactuallv makP their disease iron ~ is suspected of trig­sugar. Once inside, it is worse by inadvertently pro­gr.ring cancPr and othnr dis­immediatoly converted back tect.i ng their tumors from ease. to vitamin C. 
radiation and chemotherapy, Health experts recommend He said a kev feature of new research suggests. 
that peopl1-1 eat plenty of many cancers is they have Doctors caution they can­
fruits and vegetables many more of these sugarnot prove the vitamin is 
because they are good openings than do ordinary
harmful during cancer treat­an antioxidantsources cells. This allows them to 
mont. But they say there arc 
nutrients, among other take in the energy they need 
strong biological reasons to 
things. Many people routine­to grow.
think megadoses could he 
ly take. high doses of vitamin But he said cancer cells bad. 
C and other antioxidants in often also have very highThe concern is based on the belief that they will pre-concentrations of vitamin C. 
the discoverv that cancer vent or The exact
cells actually· contain large 
cure ill-function 
amounts of vitamin C, which nesses. of the vit­
appears to protert them 
However, "My experience as a a m i n
from oxygen damage. Many 
doctors inside
biologist would say it is 
cancer treatments, especial­
caution cancer is
ly radiation therapy, work no accident. The cancer
that even unknown.
by triggering oxygen dam­
though cell wants vitamin C " M y 
age to the genes of cancer 
various experi­
because'it wants
cells, 

nutritional ence as a
Dr. David Golde. physi­supple­antioxidant protection." biologistcian-in-chief at Memorial ments are w o 
u Id

Sloan-Kettering Cancer 
natural, say it is
David Golde 

Center in '.\lew York City, this does no acci­
warned against too much Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center
not neces­d c n t,"
vitamin C in a presentation s a r i I y s a i d 
Monday at a meeting of 
mean they Golde. 
the American Cancer 
are also safe or effective, "The cancer cell wants vita­Society. 
especially when combined min C because it wants Vitamin C has many 
with other treatments. antioxidant protection." Dr. for
Barrie Cassileth, a Among cancer's uses medical sociologist who the vitamin, he said, could
~ft~ftftft~~ftftftftftftft studies vitamin and herbal be protection against the remedies at Memorial Sloan­harmful effect of radiation Kettering, noted that vitamin therapy, as well as some
ft ft C fell from favor as a cancer forms of chemotherapy that treatment in 1985 after a work by inducing oxygen Mayo Clinic study found it to damage. 
be worthless. But it has Vitamin-rich food and recently returned to vogue, multivitamins are safe for and some practitioners give cancer patients, Golde said, 
ft LOOKING FORA ft 
ft ft extremely high doses to can­but he routinely advises can­cer patients as an addition cer patients to avoid gram­
to ordinary treatment or size doses of vitamin C while 
even as a substitute. under treatment.
ft BIG MOVE THIS 
ft ft 
ft FALL??? ft 
ft ft
SEE WHAT
ft ft ft ft ft CAMPUS VIEW ft ft ft ft IS ALL ABOUT ft 
ft ft ft ft
272-1441
ft ft ft 
ORSTOPBY:
ft ft 1801 IRISHWAY ft ft ft 

ft

ft ONLY ASHORT WALK FROM CAMPUS!! 
ft ft fdill~ftftftft~~ftftftftftft 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 14 BSERVER Tuesday, March 28, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 4655(, [124 Suurh Dinii:~ 1-1.dl. Nurre D.rmt, JN 4C>'iV, 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUS!NES~ l\1ANAGFR  
Nor~en Gill<spie  Tim Lme  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Tim LogJ.n  Hrian Kes:..lcr  

NEWS EDITOR: Anne Marie /'vLuinglJ VIE\\T'OI'.'IT EmTOR: LiLi. H.1ughcr SroRTS EDITOR: Kerry Smidt SCENE ErnTOR: Amanda Greco 
SAINT !-.1ARY's EDITOR: Mollr \,frVor 
PHOTO EDITOR: Liz Lang 
Ao\'ERT!S!NG MA.-:A.GFR: Par Perers 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chis Avila 
5YSTI.MS ADMINISTRATOR; Mike Gunville 
\X'EB ADMINISTRATOR: Acl.un T umcr 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGEIVGENERAL INFO .... .........631-7471 fAx................ . ........ GJ l-(,;)27 ADVERTISING....... . .........(,31-(,<)()0/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF............................ ......... 631-4542 MANAGING Eo1TOR/AssT. ME. . ........ 63 l-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE .... 631-5313 NEWS.... .............................631-5323. observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT 
observer.viewpoint. l@r,d.edu SPORTS...................................................631-4543 observer.spons. I@nd.edu 
SCENE. ....... ····················· 631-4540 observer.scene.!@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S.. ..... . .. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO.. ...............631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMlNISTRATORS ...............631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire ar http:llobserver.ndedu for dailr upthres ofcampus r,ews, sports. features and opir,ion columns, as weU as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. ' 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-ro-the 
movies/music for 

minute forecasts 
weeklr sruJem reviews 

advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

and rates of prinr ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to se,u-ch for 
about The Observer 

arrides published afrer 
to meer the editors and 
suff

August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independenr, dail)' newspaper published in prim mci online by rhe students ofthe Cniversiry of Notre Dame du be and Saipt Mary's College. Editorial comenr. including advertisements. is not governed by policies of the adminisrrarion ofeither instirurion. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse adverrisemenrs based on c..:unrcnr. .... 
The news is reported as accuratelr and objecrively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority ofrhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department edirors. Commentaries, letters aml columns present the views of rhe amhors and not r,ecessanly those ofThe Obsen·er. 
Vicwpoim spc1ce i, avail.,blc ro all readers. The free expression 0L1ll opinion:. through letters is encouraged. l.crrer, to th~ EcLlror must be signed Jnd must mdrrde contact inform~:i:tion. 
Questions regmtiing Ohsen>ffpo/ic,ej sho1tlrl he rlirect-" er/ to F.rlitor 111 C.hief',\fike (.ormolly. 
'-­/,,,... /  / \ . ­?A I  / It-'.:. X  - ,/, / --_/I I.. ' .\, f \ I-' -.. ----­~~ -­ 
- 
L­ •. ~"~ -.,. . ­..:~/_  




Papal pilgrimage is a radical act 
Pope John Paul II's visit through the Holy Land was both moving and coura­geous. Many non-Catholics had viewed with suspicion the Pope's recent apolo­gy for Catholic transgressions through­out the ages. For 
some, he had not been specifir. enough about the kinds of discrimi­nation and oppres­sion which he addressed. For oth­ers, his apology did not seem sincere. 


Watching the Pope throughout 
Gary Caruso 

the week, one got the sense that he was like the super­
Capitol

star athlete during 
Comments

his final season. The Pope had planned for this journey 22 years ago after he was elected to the Papary. This visit was the 
last hurrah of a religious man who just recently distinguished himself from 
most of his predecessors. His legacy would be known by his dramatic apolo­gy, and this visit would authentirntc his 
gesture for those who had been skepti­
cal. 
Catholics take for granted the oppres­sion they still face in many societies. including the United States. We feel comfortable at :\Jotre Dame among our fellow Catholics. 
We live almost as comfortably in manv of our urban and suburban com­munities, with the exception of numer­ous southern and midwcstern areas. For example, Catholics who have lived in Southern Baptist dominated areas know the type of distrust and discrimi­nation they faced from their neighbors. 
Real hatred against Catholics perme­ates fundamentalist organizations such as Bob Jones Universitv. Subtle dis­crimination infiltrates those organiza­tions led bv those who believe that onlv "born again Christians" will one day g;i to heaven. 
Despite the magnanimous and hum­ble apology our Pope extended to all peoples and religions of the world, we will never hear a similar admission on Pat Robertson's 700 Club. S11lf-right­eousness breeds contempt. 
Pope John Paul II raised the Catholic Church above the thinking of the self­righteous. By including other Christians during his visit, the Pope set aside our past self-righteous attitude that we are thri one and onlv true Christian Church. By praying on the site where Muslims believe that Mohammed was raised, he reached out like Christ did to the Gentiles. 
By praying at the Wailing Wall, the holiest of Jewish places, he extended a hand in fellowship like Jesus did to everyone. Our Pope was telling the world that the three religions that were begun from Abraham, are in fact, made upof brothers in sister institutions. 
We as Catholics have now been called by our Pope to live by a higher stan­dard. Some U.S. bishops have already asked for f'orgivenr,ss for those pri<1sts who have betrayed their trust with chil­dren. 
Other bishops have asked forgiveness for thr, wavs that discrimination has pushed w<;men and gays from the Church. 
Notre Dame might. rethink its rigid stance against many with prohibitions regarding student recognitions. Observer advertising. and anti-ct iscrim­inalion policies. Perhaps a simple apol­ogy might be the first step. 
Our Pope took a courageous step in uniting the peoples of the world. It is time for Catholics everywhere to be morn tolerant. more humble and morr. generous. The next time the urge to tell a jok(1 about the "Jew" or the "fag" or the "Wop" swells from within, think of the spirit that rose from within John Paul II. 
Watching tlw Pope last wer,k at the gardens and hilltops. narrow streets and monumr.nts commemorating where Jesus walked, was actually vim•\'· ing a reenactment of that journey almost 2000 years ago . .John Paul II knows that his remaining timr. on this earth is short. 
The timing or his visit, twenty-two years after its conreption, is not a coin­cidencr.. Whether the Pope has a month. a year or ten years remaining as head of our Church, hr. has called us to follow the shepherd ... the same call of two millennia ago. 
For those who alwavs wish(\d that they could have lived during the time ol' Christ. their wish has just been grant­Pd. 
That call is a diflir.ult one. just as it was those many years ago. Eating a man's f1esh and drinking his blood was quitP a radical rnncept back then. 
For many, recognizing other religions and peoplns as family is just as radical today. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73. is serving in President Clinton's adminis­tration as a Congressional and Public Affairs Director and is currently assist­
ing Vice President Gore's White House Hmpowerment Commission. I/is column appears every other Tuesday" 
The view.,; e:rprPssed in this column are those of lhe author and not necPs­sarily those r~{ The Obseruer. 
DILBERT  SCOTT ADAMS  
I REVIEWED YOUR CD-ROM BUSINESS CARD LAST NIGHT.  I BR0LJSED YOUR PERSONAL WEB PAGE.  MAYBE WE 51-\0ULD DO SOME CONVER­SATION. I ALREADY HAD ONE IN MY  

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Get rid ofthe devil and the priest will have nothing to do. " 
Nikita Khrushchev Soviet Premier 



VIEWPOINT 
JI. 

Will you be someone's lifeline? 
Tuesday, March 28, 2000 
I 
Do you know who your lif0.linP would bf'? Sophomoro Conor \1urphy is hop­ing to find his. Diagnosed with lr.ukemia earlv this Sf'tnPstrr, Conor is rPlying on a b~rnr, marrow transplant. Thi' Notre Danw 
Bridget

rnmmunity has a chanrP to lwlp O'Connor Conor !ind his match tomorrow at tlw bo1w mar-l..Vho You row drivP tbal is Gonna Call? being held at LaFortunf' Stud1,nt CPntr.r from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
Evr.n if" it turns out that a match is not found for Conor through the drivB this Wedm,sday, his situation alerts us to thP plight of other patients with vari­ous types of leuhmia. aplastic anemia, srvcrn combinPd immune dP.liciPncv syndrome, ~ickle n!II anemia and radi­ation poisoning who depend on bone marrow transplantation for their treat­
ment. 
More than the marrow il~clf, these patif'nts rely upon each of us to recog­nizP the importance of becoming a part of tlw National Bone Marrow Registry. The odds of finding a suitable marrow donor are 1 in 20.000. although this figure is much higher !'or patients of minority r.thnic hrritage. Since the National Marrow Donor Program's incPption in 1987 more than 3,000,000 volunlPCTr donors hav0 signP.d onto its lkgistry and as a result more than 9,000 patients havt: had a sPcond chance at life. 
/\nd it's as easy as a blood test. You must be between 18 and 60 years old: have no history ol' hepatitis, heart dis­ease, cancer, or AIDS and sign a st,m­dard consent form allowing the lkgistry to include your IHA tissue typr in its r.onlidr,ntial fi1r,s for future matching, HlA, or Human Leukocyt<' ,\ntigPn. Pquates to your genetic human fingerprint and is detNmined by tissue typing or molecular typing the whitn blood cells. 
Some students have <'Xpressed their rnluctance to partir.ipate in the drive bc•c1wse they will be included in the rr.gistry until their 61st birthday or because thcv do nol want a financial obligation tr; donatP. Participants should be aware hm-\iwer thai they can rnmove their name from thA rciistry at any time and even if they wind up being a match for someone. the entire process is voluntary. rurther. thf' rosts of all procedures are borne by the µatit1nt a.nd his or her i11surance com­pany. 
Probablv the most common concern is what th.(' actual donatilin process entails ii' someone does wind up being a match. The marrow extraction is done under light anesthesia. Only 2 to 3 percent of a donor's marrow is extracted and a donor may go home thr. same day or the following morning. The most common side effect is sore­nP-ss in the lower back area for a few davs. The donation does not curtail daily activities and thf' marrow regen­erates within a fev,· weeks. Donors can even donate again in the future. 

Hisks are generally limited to that associated with the anesthesia and are the same as for any procedure per­formed under general or local anes­thr.tic. Thousands of transplants are successfully conducted every year. 
As for Con or, he may actually already have a match. A 41-year old man was found to be a six out of six match for him and is now entering into the secondary phases of exploring whether the match will work. However. as this process is voluntary until the final stage, there is no guar­antee that this match will result in a transplant for Conor. 
According to his friends, Conor is currently overcoming some infections and the effects of chemotherapy. Although tired and thin, his spirits are high. He and a group of people say the rosary nightly and often offer their intentions for the people who do not haVf' the support that he has. His abili­ty to continue to focus on others despite the urgency of his own situa­tion has amazed his friends and family. In fact. it is his concern for others rather than for himself that is the moti• vation behind tomorrow's drive. Conor understands that someone is giving this gift to him and he wants as many people to be helped tn the same way as possible. 
Even beforn the match was found, ho realized that this drive would be important even if it only helped some other person somewhere else. 
A strong turnout this tomorrow would not only show Conor that those back on campus are pulling fur him. but that we understand the overall importance of the Registry. Who knows what the results could be? Maybe someone will wind up directly helping Conor. Maybe they will be the lifesav­ing match for someone else. Maybe somedav one ofus will need a lifeline. Who knr>ws? 
Bridgf:t O'Connor is a senior government major with a concentration in Irish studies. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Obser11er. 

page 15 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Can't lawyers take a joke? 
I am writing in response to Lindsay Sestilc's lotter "Creeps aren't the only cause" [March 27, The Observer] 
Heing in the usual habit of believing as Truth every single opinion from every single person in the Viewpoint, I read McDonald's letter and was positive that ALL law students are creeps. I Wt)Uld like to thank Sestile for dearing up my obviously mistaken assumption. Now I am just left wondering whether or not ALL lu.w students can take a joke, or just the few I've met at Senior Bar. 
Kelly Keegan 
Sophun10re, Welsh Family Hall March 27, 2000 

Act locally; change our community 
Last Wednesday's edition of this paper gave me much more than the usual food for thought and I thank all those who contributed to the feast. On the front page were good articles on the Roseland incident and coverage of the sweatshop issue and the desire of the Progressive Student Alliance (PSA) for the University to join the Worker's Rights Consortium 
rather than the Fair Labor is not one to be over­Association. looked. I thought, imag­The middle of the ined, wished, hoped paper contained that the PSA would 
Jason McFarley's fine feature col­umn about the abuse of power by the Roseland officers and a letter to the editor by Justin Bonner about how we could use a bit of a crisis around here to shake up compla­cent stu­dents who claim to be Christian. Good stuff to read and ponder. 
I would like to mix these four pieces together and offer a somewhat 
Yes, Mr. Bonner, we should get uncomfort• able about a number of 
things around here and get rid of our indifference. Yes. Mr. McFarley it is okay for you to display your anger. 
We all should be angry about the trnatment of our community members at the hands of what appears to be two abusive police officers. 
What should make us even more angry, or at least embarrassed and ashamed, is that more extreme moral outrage has been shown over a poor lad's last second waterv mistake dur­ing the Syracuse basketball game. 
Por the past two years I have been watching with some interest the forma­tion and practices of the PSA. I had some hope that they might really develop into some positive force on campus. 
It appears that they probably will not. I fear that they arc becoming more and more like the group that the late Al Capp satirized in his 'Lil Abner car­toon strip. During the 1960's, when so many campuses were up for grabs, Capp often depicted a collection of stu­dent activists he labeled S.W.I.N.E. (Students Wildly Indignant about Nearly Everything). 
The issue of our students of color 
being harassed and intimidated by 
alocalgovernn1entalagency 
already have had sit-ins and protests outside the Roseland 
Town hall and Police Department. Instead they want the University to forsake its already proven leadership role in an organiza­tion deal­ing with sweat­
shops in 
order to join a group that has not 
really come together. It might be 
that they desire us to sit in the Administration Building and sing the 1960's hit "Puff the Magic Dragon" rather than sit in Roseland and sing the 

1960's fight song "We Shall Overcome." They want our student body to mobi­lize for this? 
"Think Globallv, Act Locallv," is a fine motto to follow for justk·e issues. It makes sense; it does accomplish things at the level where most people are. In other words it is where the rubber hits the road. 
Take the lead now! Organize now! Doing that which is positive, concrete and observable on the local level might actually produce results on an issue of justice. 
It has not been done around hero in some time. It might actually be the start of something. 
Father William Seetch 
Rector, Morrissey Manor M~rd1 23. 2000 


page J6 Tuesday, March 28, 2000 
ALBUM REVIEW 
'Giants' marks necessary transition for Oasis 
By CHRISTOPHFR McGOVERN Scene ~1 usic ( ~riric 
Oasis 1u•p not tlw Beatles. Nor are they the Rolling Stm1es, the Charlatans or thr Stone Roses, Yet due to some brash commPnts during their younger days. they will r1'ways be held to tlrn standard that these great British bands set. It's a shame berause thP band responsible for some of the 90's best songs and oue of the decades best albums. Definitely 

ALBUM REVIEW 
Maybe, is too often overshadowed by thr. unreasonable expertations placed upon them. It doesn't help that their last album. Be Here Now. was a critical Hop !although it was the· fastest selling album of all Lime in the lJKl. With their fnurth album. Standing on thr. Shoulder of Giants. however. the Gallagher broth­flfs should quell tlwse pressures -least until their next album 
A projert in the works for over two years. Giants starts out well wilh the {irst two tracks. "F--kin' In thf' Rush-es" and the first. single. "Go Let It OuL." The formPr. an instrumental featuring a Zeppelin-osquc guitar, is unfamiliar ter­ritory for Oasis. though certainly wel­come. The latter is the prototypical Oasis radio hit. perfect for a pub sing-a­long. It's quite possibly tlw strongest numbf'r on the album. The remainder o!' the al.bum rontains sonw solid tracks, incorporating some new sounds for Oasis. but thr"re is nothing particularly groundbreaking. 
tvlusically. the raucous "Put Yer Money Where Your Mouth Is" would lit right in on the Dandy Warhols album Corne Down. Unfortunately. it contains the wr.akest lyrics on the album. Perhaps Nnel's strongest turn of the pen comes on "Gas Panic!" a song he wrote about his troubles with shaking his corainc addiction. The song also makes great use of the bands strongest asset. Liam ·s voir:e. 
Despite his fantastic vocals however. Liam has never written the words he sings. The first track he has penned to make it Lo an album. "Little James." was written for his step-son with wifo/actress Patsy Kensit. It is a blat«nt "Hey Jude" rip-off, complete with the requisite "na na na" chorus at the end. While lyrically weak -"You live for your toys/ even though they make noise" -when Liam sings 'Tm sing-ing this song/ for you and your morn/ and that's all." one t:an't help but beli<'ve him. Although com­pletely self-indulgent. the song strangely works. 


Noel takes over lead vocals on two trarks. "Where Did It All Go Wrong?" and "Sunday Morning Call." While not exactly packing the punch ol' his little brother. Noel shows he can be quite a rapable vocalist. r.specially on "Sunday Morning Call." The song, supposedly written for supermodel friend Kate Moss, is a broad. sweeping number. which will certainly bring out the sea of lighters when performed live. 
The album comes to a close much tikr their second and best-selling album. (What's thr Story) Morning Glory? with "Holl It Ov<\r." Comparablr to the rpic "Champagnr Supernova." the song comes to loud. dramatir crescendo before bringing the album to a soft, almost exhausted-frcling close. 
While Giants may not be a huge step forward for Oasis. it is a necessary tran­sition. Their appeal has always lied in their brash. high-energy rock as well as their desire to make music for the peo­ple. And progress be damned when all the people want to do is get drunk and sing along. 
Soundtrack offers a preview of upcon1ing U2 albun1 
By TIMOTHY COLLINS 
Scene 1'1usic Critic 
U2. the biggest rock band of the late ·8os and early '90s. is back with their first new release of the new millen­nium. But it does not come by way of a new album: it comes instead from the soundtrack to the film The Million Dollar Hotel. The movie, written by lead singer Bono and starring Mel Gibson. has received critical acrlaim in Europe but has yet to pick up an American distribu­tor. Its soundtrack. however. is quite a different story; it has been hyped because of the two new U2 songs that are the band's first new material since 1997's Pop. 

The album opens with "The Ground Beneath Iler F1rnt." with lyrics written by Salmon Hushdie. The song starts at a slow pace, carried by drummer Larry Mullen Jr. and bassist Adam Clayton. before exploding about halfway thr.ough into one of The Edgf1's best guitar solos, Bono relates the great lyrics with such emotion Lhat when he sings, "Lr.t me love you, let me rescue you. Let me bring you whore two roads meet. Oh come back above where them is only love," the listener can feel his pain with every line. 
The onlv other new rontribution from 
the band·comos in "Stateless," a song 
that is somewhat reminiscent of 
lladiotwad. 13ono's lvrirs sound more 
like poetry than anything he has ever 
written, and Clayton's throbbing bass 
once again carries the song. It takes a 
few listens before it sticks in the listfm­
er's head and it is definitely not as 
catchy as a lot of the baud's music, but 
it shows a new side of the band. 
The oLher song that stands out on the album is the U2 song "The First Time." which is taken from the band's Grammy Award-winning 1993 album, Zooropa. 

The song steals the show on the sound­track. Bono's lyrics, about the first time he feels love between a man and his lover, brother and father, is as good as anything I.he band has ever written, The album that it comes from mav be the best or the band's career as i,eJI. and this song sounds as fresh as it did seven years ago. 
The rest of the soundtrack consists of a few songs that Bono wrote and per­formed without UZ. The best of which is "Never Let Mc Go," in which he collabo­rates with Daniel Lanois, the band's long-time producer. The rest of the 

album is made up of instrumentals and covers; the most interesting of which is the Spanish version of' the Sex Pistols' r!assir "Anarchy in the U.K." It definite­ly offers a different take on the song. 
This soundtrack is a must-have for any U2 fan. The band's new songs are as good as anything the band has writ­ten in the last five years. The rest of the songs on the album arc good, but it wouldn't be worthy of buying if it weren't for the two new U2 songs, Those new songs give a great glimpse into what to expect from the band's new album due out this fall. 

Tuesday, March 28, 2000 page 17 
ALBUM REVIEW 
After 27 years, AC/DC refuses to soften up 
By JOSEPH LARSON ~u:ne !viu~ii.: CritiL 
Wh. t.m you think of the world's grcal­ost rock n · roll bands of all timP, AC/DC probably isn't thP first that comes to mind -but you can't com­plPtoly uisrqi;ard Lht>lll. Since 1 <J7]. AC/OC !whosP 111tnH' was tab~n l'rom tlw bac:k of' a vacuum c!can­c,r, AILornating CurrenVDirect Curnmt1 has rP!t~asPd 18 studio albums and thrn,' liw CDs. Tlwy'v<: f'nnwcr changed tlw fac11 ol' nwk mnsic with th11ir hard­driving. thundProus sound. Evllry rock musician has tried to copy the nuerg)' 1tnd pounding hullabaloo that ls signa­tu n· AC/llC. So what if' their music hasn't Pxactly dr-veloped and matured ovPr tlw vears. thPv'1·e still om• or th11 longc•st n;nning rock bands of all time. Not only is it imµrPssivP lhat thny're still playing after all these years, but they haven't softAned up at alL Unlike other rock bands still around from the '70s I i.e .. Aerosmithl. i\C/DC has maintained the same stvlc thf'Y had wh1111 thev released tbei; first album, Iligb Vollag~. in 1973. 
Some critir.s would consider it a bad thing that AC/DC has simply been mak­ing the exact same al.bum !'or the last 27 years, They would say that they arc long over the hill and should promptly rt'tirc and quit boring us with tlrn sanrn songs over and over again. The problem is, AC/J>C is n1wer boring -even though they've born copying themselves for years. They continue to rock the way they always have. Their songs. though pertaining to the same subject matter throughout their career, are still the most enPrgetic of any of the rock bands out today. 
AC/DC's first singer. Bon Scott. 

Still bearing his trademark school boy look, lead guitarist Angus Young returns with AC/DC's 18th studio album in 27 years. Despite the changes in music trends, the band has managed to maintain its image and sound. 
summed it up best when he said, "All the songs we do are basically about three things: booze, sex and ruck n' roll." What more do you want out of a rock band? They're not trying to say anything important; they're just playing good rock n' roll and they know it. 
This still may not be enough to silence the critics, who would argue that AC/DC has lost a step on their new relPase. Stiff Upper Lip, Some would say that this new album sounds like a band Impersonating AC/DC ThPy would say that lead guitarist. Angus Young doesn't have the same power he had on songs like "You Shook Me All Night Long," ''13ack in 13lack" and "for Those About to Rock (We Salute You)." Thev would consider this new album ~ futile attempt at capturing their pat1;rnted, hard-driving musk 
This just isn't right. Pven though therP are no songs like "Back in Black" on Stiff Upper Lip -this album· is still patented ACJDC. They have had plenty of albums without classic singles over the years. 
The absence of a single does not mean that ACJDC has lost any of their punch. This is apparent on songs like "Hold Me Back," "All Scre'JVed Up" and "Give It Up." The best song on the album is the full-steam-ahead rocker "Satellite Blues," which consists of lead singer Brian Johnson being echoed by his bandmates in the chorus, This song is true to AC/DC's strict rock n · roll code. proving rock bands don't need backup singers, This song is what rock music is meant to be. 
Listening to this. the 18th studio album from this classic rock band, proves two things. One. they really haven't changed in 27 years. And two, it doesn't matter. AC/DC can continue to write the same song over and over again for 18 more albums and they'll still be fun to listen to, Their sound is still original even though their new songs aren't. When listening to this album, you can't help but start involun­tarily bobbing your head to the thunder­ing drive, The golden visage of Angus Young with his guitar and fist thrust into the air on the album's cover is the perfect statement of a career that con­tinues to stubbornly push forward no matter how many critics believe they should call it quits. 

So the next time there is a debate about who the greatest rock bands of all time are, consider this: Who is the most fun to listen to, and who has been the truest to themselves and their fans? At this point in their career. the only thing that should be said to AC/DC is "for those about to rock. we salute you," 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Indie band played an earful of a performance 
By JOHN HUSTON 
Scl'HL' J\lu.-;ic Critic 
Tlw SPlting: Spring Break ~000; New Orleans. La.; the wePk alter Mardi Gras. Lots of beads. boobs and beer. So why not take a night off and see sonw indiP rock? Man or Astro-man? are knov,;n !'or tlwir live shows, and tlwir CO\'fff of tho Mystnry Scirnce Tbeatrn 3000 theme song is sprctacular. Tlw l'irsl band uf' thf' rw\'ning was C;wsPy \'Vay, Their pl'ri'tffmanu>. was most nwmorablf' f'or being boring and unoriginal. lfasically they wer<' Dcvo rip-offs, Man or Astro-ma11? are too, but they pull it off ,t liLtlc more cffec­tivP!y. It seemed lik,~ Causey Way assumed that they could put on a good show if they all drt!SScd in matching jumpsuits, played quirky musir, and moved crraticallv in time with the music. They assumed wrong, It was pre!'rrable to spend the time during Causey Way's set at the bar trying to ignore them, Lur:kily they weren't playing too loudly. Papas Fritas took the stage soon thereafter, Thoy are on Minty Fresh Her:ords. the label lhat made Veruca Salt huge. Tim band has lots of dclin­ing r.baracteristics. They all wore '70s Just like the '80s, it got boring pretty quickly. 

ThA coolest thing about the band was their lead singer/guitarist's strik­ing rcsemblanr.e to David Koresh. Top that off with the fact that an /\rt Garfunkel lookalike played the bass (and provided bar.k-up harmonies! Just like the REAL Garfunkel!), Their frma!P drummer would or.casionally sing lead vocals. and she definitely provided the band's shining musieal volume slightly higher than Causey Way. they could not even compare to the sonic onslaught that foJlowcd, 
The Man or Astro-man? stage show didn't disappoint, They claim to be outer space computer experts. who are trapped on Earth after their "cruiser'' crashed in Alabama and are now try­ing to assimilate to life on this planet by posing as a musical group. Is that weird enough for you? 
On stage they all wore costumes and average band whose members usually stand still. looking down at their instruments, 
But the pain. oh the pain! The only thing that could have helped Man or Astro-man? would have been earplugs for the crowd. 
Other than that. they were great. Their energetic surf-influenced rock sound got the crowd moving and their wacky stage personas were compli­mentary tii the overall mood of tlrn show. They oscillated between stan­dard guitars and basses to playing r,on1puter keyboards slung around their necks that wue linked up to amplifiers to produce spacey, Casio­like sounds. 
At one point. between songs, they revealed a large aquarium at the back of the stage that contained a large brain (hat they said helped them relate to the earthlings. How nice of them! 
After wading through the opening bands and suffering sufficient hearing loss, they didn't even have the cour­tesy to play the MST3K theme. Oh well, it was enjoyable, if not a little painful. As they say, it hurt so good. 
The Man or Astro-man? live show is worth the price of admission -this particular show cost $8. Spare your­self the post-show deafness. though. and drop an extra fifty cents on a pair 
dothes and played their brand of '80s moments. spoke with robot-like voices. It was of earplugs first. You'll be glad you music, It was charming . ., for a while. Although Papas Fritas played at a quite a refreshing change from your did. 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 28, 2000 
WOMEN'S NCAA CHAMPIONSHIP 
Vols defeat Raiders 57-44 to return to Final Four 
Associated Press 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. 
Tamika Catchings couldn't shoot Monday night. The All-American did just about everything elsf' to make sure the Tennessee Lady Vols gol back to the rinal four for a record 12th time. 
Catchings, playing on a sprainPd right ankle much of the game, scored just seven points but grabbPd 16 rebounds in helping top-seeded Tennessee hold off Texas Tech 57-44 in the NCAA Mideast Regional final. 
ror awhile, the game looked like a replay of last year's East Regional final. when Tennessee's star player, Chamiqm' Holdslaw, couldn't hit a shot. The Lady Vols lost that game to Duke, ending a run of three straight national champi­onships. 
Hut Catchings refused to let the Lady \'ols (31-3) lose to Texas Tech (28-5). 
The 6-foot-1 forward was everywhere, tipping away passes, taking charges and matching her career high on the boards. She had three steals and handed out si.x assists. 
Kara Lawson led Tennessee with 13 points. Michellt> Snow and Semeka Randall each had 12 points for the Lady Vols, now a perfect 7-of-7 in regional finals played in Tenm~sse. 
Texas Tech hasn't been to the Final Four since 1993, when Sheryl Swoopes led the Ladv Raiders to a national cham­pionship in· their one and only appear­ance. The Lady Raiders used their defense to harass Tennessee into one of its worst shooting performances this sea­son. 
Penn State 86, Louisiana Tech 65 
Penn State and coach Rene Portland are finally going to the Final Four. 
Lisa Shepherd scored 20 of her 25 points in the first half to put Penn State in control and the Lady Lions beat top­seeded Louisiana Tech 86-65 Monday night in the Midwest Regional. 
Penn State (30-4) survived the pres­sure defense of Tech guards Tamicha Jackson and Betty Lennox, shot 54 per­cent from 3-point range (7 -for-13) and dominated the play inside. 
Louisiana Tech (31-3), which had won 21 straight, couldn't get its offense cranked back up after a first-ha]f cold spell, failed to get outgoing coach Leon Barmore in the Final Four one last time. 
So now it's on to Philadelphia for sec-
CLASSIFIEDS 
ond-seeded Penn State, which will play East Regional champion Connecticut in the national semifinals friday night. Connecticut, which beat Penn State 87­74 in Orlando, Fla., on Dec. 5, advanced with an 86-71 victory over LSU. 
It will be the first Final Four trip for Penn State fur Portland, who grew up in suburban Philadelphia and is now in her 24th year as a coach. 
Helen Darling and PhiladA!phia nativA ,'\ndrea Garner each scored 15 points for Penn State, with Darling getting 12 assists and Garner grabbing 12 rebounds. '.Ylaren Walseth added 13 points and 10 rebounds and Chrissy Falcone scored 10. 
Darling was named tho rcgional's out­standing player. 
Jackson led Tech with 19 points and Lennox scored 14, but they were a com­biMd 12-for-40 from the field. 
The gamo began at a frenc•tic pace and Louisiana Tech led 20-19 after Jackson's 3-pointer with l2:14 left. But the Lady Techsters managed only one basket over the next six minutes and Penn State, get­ting good shots with crisp passing, seized control with an 18-4 run. 
Shepherd hit a jump shot to start it and finished it with three straight 3­pointers, pulting Penn State ahead 37­
24. Jackson's 3-pointer pulled Ter.h within 10, but the Lady Techsters would get no closer. 
Penn State outscored Tech 8-2, all on free throws, to finish the half with a 45­29 lead, only the fourth time this season the Lady Techsters trailed at halftime. 
When Penn State opened the second half with a 12-3 burst that Shepherd and Falcone started with 3-pointers, the lead grew to 5 7 -32 and the Lady Lions and their small but vocal coterie of fans could sense that victory was imminent. 
Conneticut 86, Louisiana State 71 
Connecticut is going back to the Final Four for the first time in four years, but not with an air of invincibility. 
The Huskies, accustomed to routing opponents by 30 points, struggled against sharp-shooting LSU for a half before pulling out an 86-71 victory Monday night in the East Regional final. 
All-American Svetlana Abrosimova led the Huskies with 25 points and was selected the regional's most valuable player. Sue Bird added 16 points and Shea Ralph, another All-American, had seven of her 15 late in the second half. 
Connecticut (34-1), ranked No. 1 all national semifinals. 


The Huskies compiled a 31.6-point average victory margin this season, and won their first three NCM tournament games by a total of 131 points. 
They're also headed to the Final Four for the fourth time in nine years. Connecticut lost to Virginia in the nation­al semifinals in 1991, won the 1995 title and lost to Tennessee in the semifinals 
But some of the Huskies' swagger may have been diminished by the third-seed­ed Lady Tigers, who shot 73.9 percent in the first half and were within striking distance at intermission,-trailing 46-41. 
April Brown had 25 points and Marie Ferdinand 17 for LSU, which shot 51.8 percent for the game, including Brown's 9-for-16 performance and five 3-point­ers. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
The South Bend Parks & 1721 Rerick 3 Bedroom, Recreation Department (The Family room with Fireplace, NOTICES City of South Bend) is currently Fenced Backyard, C/A Gas 
accepting applications for golf Heat, Across From Park, Very THE COPY SHOP rangers, concessions, bever-Safe Neighborhood $995/mo. LaFortune Student Center age cart drivers (must be 21) 12 mo. lease Call 232-4527 Store Hours and other seasonal help. Pay Close to Campus 
'1-Thur: 7:30am-Mid ranges from $6.00-$8.00 per 219-340-1844 Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm hour. Apply at the County City 616-683-5038 S.... Noon-6:00pm Bldg. 14th floor EOE Sun: Noon-Mid Look! New Home for Rent 3/4 Free Pick-Up & Delivery! HELP!! I need 2 extra tix for Bedroom 3 Bath, Cathedral Call 631-COPY graduation. If you can help me, Ceilings, Fireplace, Refrig, We're open late so your order please call Rachel@ 246-1072 Range,Disp,Dish,Washer & will be done on time! Dryer.Gas heat/ C/A, 2-car 
Teacher Wanted: ND/SMC garage.Family room.Close to families need teacher for next Campus. call 616-683-5038 or WANTED year to instruct children in 219-232-4527 or 219-340-1844 
home setting. Part-time posi-ASPIRING WAITERS! .'tion. SalaryNacation nego-FOR RENT FOR FALL www.maincampus.com seeks tiab!e. SEMESTER 4 bedroom, 2 full students for stories ranging Call 258-9707 baths, washer & dryer, base-from ment with hot tub, new furnace, Politics/Sex/Culture/Opinions security system. Call for a $25 per story! FOR RENT showing 277 -0636 
Email us at: earn@maincam­pus.com HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) 5-!T"S NOT TOO LATE A newly 
bedroom, $1000/month. 2) 4-remodeled 5 bedroom house is SUMMER JOB: Caregiver; two bedroom; $900/month. 3) 3-still available to rent tor the fall children, ages 7&8. Mon-bedroom, $700. semester. 2 full baths, washer Fri, 7:30AM-3: 15PM. Jun 12-Call Bill at 675-0776. & dryer, huge rec room, securi-Aug 18 Granger. 272-6107 or We'll make almost any ty system. Call now to se 277­284-3485 changes to the houses. 0636 2 bedroom, 2 bath apartment for lease during summer ses­sion. Close to campus, wahser/dryer. 
Call Erin 4-4238 if interested. 
NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR GOOD AREA NORTH 2773097 
N.D.-ST. MARY'S Graduation Rental, 4 bedroom hone, Arlington Heights, 2 mi. from campus, Rent for weekend. 219-273-0625 
Large clean 2+ bedroom with basement and garage. Top floor of very clean duples near ND. Idea! tor single graduate student wanting space and convenience. $600/mo plus utilities, deposit 
674-1670 

ND/SMC STUDENTS Working at Hilton Head Island this sum­mer?? Roommates needed to share an affordable, furnished, 3-bdrm, waterfront condo. Call Hyland 634-3863 
LESBIAN? GAY? FRIEND or  
FOR SALE  FAMILY of someone who is? You're welcome to join others  
on Retreat. March 31-April 1.  
New Phone Card  Call Tom@ 1-4112 or Alyssa  
886 mins. $20  @ 4-3194 for details.  
258-4805 or 243-9361  

Car for sale -VW Jetta Are you Crush-worthy? 
Home for sale: 3 BR, 2 8th,  Chuk will be there  
2000 sq ft + full basement, 2  
car gar.  5 min from ND, $99K.  It's nice to be back  
By appt. 288-9167  
Although Stanford was pretty  
Beautiful brass bed, queen  sweet  
size, with orthopedic mattress  
set and deluxe frame. New,  One last jab at Jim Harris?  
never used, still in plastic. $235  
219-862-2082  Nah..  

We'll let him off this time. 

PERSONAL 
hey erin, FULL COLOR how ar ya? here's a classified Copying for you. haven't gotten one in a 
Printing long time, ay? well here you Scanning go. a nice big long one. aren't 
you siked? THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 
bye 

Call 631-COPY bye 


Tuesday, Ma-rch 28, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 

6:00 -8:00 pm in the LaF ortune Ballroom 
BENEFITS GO TO THE SOUTH BEND CENTER FOR THE HOMELESS 
COMPETITION BETWEEN DORMS AND SEXES 



For more information and entry call Charles at 256-5027 

page 20 ?he Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 28, 2000 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Indians interested in Rocker 
Associated Press 
MELROUHNE. Fla. 

Cleveland manager Charlie '.\lanuel esr.aped the strong winds blowing inside Space Coast Stadium on Monday by stepping down into the Indians· dugout. 
Once inside. he asked about the big trade rumor that blew through earlier. 
"We got Ror:ker yet?" Manuel Joked followiug Monday's 8-2 win over the Florida l\1arlins. 
John Rocker, Atlanta's con­troversial pitcher who was sus­pended by baseball for insensi­tive racial comments. is report­edly being discussed as part of a trade between tho Braves and Indians. who just might be in the market for a doser. 
"I think probably everyone in basrball has asked about Rocker," Manuel said. "I know his name came up, but how involved and derp we got, I don't know. I don't think that it's gotten to where we were dickering over a deal" 
Rocker's name has been pop­ping up all over Florida. Baseball fans are still arguing over whether he's a hero or martyr, while major league general managers are trying to decide if the left-hander would fit in with their teams. 
Or if he's worth the trouble. Indians GM John Hart is one of them. 
Hart wouldn't confirm or deny a report in Monday's Cleveland Plain Dealer that he's discussed a trade involv­ing Rocker and left-hander Bruce Chen for starter Jaret Wright, reliever Paul Shuey and infielders John McDonald or Jolbert Cabrera. 
'This is the time for a lot of rumors," Hart said while sit­ting behind home plate during Monday's game. "And right now I've got two guys compet­ing for a closer's job, so I really don't want to say anything about that. 
A Salute to the Leaders of Tomorrow ­Air Force ROTC Cadets 
College ,s a time for decision :hoose to become a leader 
... 
Smart move. The whole concept ot Air Force ROTC revolves around the cultivation of leadership qualities Whether you're about to start collego or have already begun, its time to mai<.o your decision, now. 
\faking Leaders forthe Air Force and Better Citizens for America 
Contact Captah, Klubeck -631-4676, or K1ubeck.1@nd.edu 


"Everybody roalizes the Rocker situation, which I guess you could say was a winter of turmoil." 
The same could be said of the Indians' current relief pitching situation. 
"It's unsettled," Hart said. 
When M.ike Jar.kson. who saved ~9 ganrns for Cleveland last year, wasn't re-signed this winter, the Indians were left without a closer. l\fanuel's plan was to have a competition for the job between Steve Karsay and Paul Shuev, but so far that battle has been very one-sided. 
Karsay, a former starter who has never closed before in his careflr. has not allowed a run in 8 1-3 innings during the cxhibitiun season. 
Shuev, meanwhile. had his ERA swell to 10.80 after giving up six runs and six hits in two­thirds of an inning against the St. Louis Cardinals on Sunday. 
But despite the dis­parity in numbers, Manuel isn't ready to pick a closer. 
"I don't want either one to think I'm putting the other one ahead of him now," Manuel said. "If some­one steps up fine, but right now nobody is ahead of the other." 
Rocker would imme­diately step ahead of both Karsay and Shuey. He had 38 saves and a 2.49 ERA last season, but is sus­pended for the first two weeks of the sea­son for his disparaging comments about minorities. gays and foreigners. 
"There's not too many guys out there with Rocker's ability," said Manuel. "He'll light you up." 
Manuel said he wouldn't be too con­cerned about how his team might react if 
Rocker werr to join the Indians. who like the Braves have a large nucleus of Latin playrrs. 
"I would say the majority of them would give him another r,hance," Manuel said. "We can give forgive the president of the U.S., we can forgive Hocker ir hr throws 100 !mph)," 
There are other reasons to think the Indians and l:lraves could be up to something. 
Hart is a good friend of Atlanta GM John Schuerholz, v\ ho denied a trade Monday that had Hocker going to Montreal for closer Ugueth Urbina. Tbe two pulled off a blockbuster trade on the eve of opening day in 1997 when Ilart traded Kenny Lofton and Alan Embree to Atlanta for Marquis Grissom and David Justice. 
Hocker got a mixed greeting from Indians fans when he 
THE 
CHEDDAR WHOPPER: 
THINK OF IT AS A WHOPPER® THAT'S DRESSED UP WITH SOMEPLACE TO GO, 

THE WHOPPER' WITH A NEW TWIST FOR A LIMITED TIME. 
If you're already a fan of "America's Favorite Burger,"* why not try it a whole new way? With crispy bacon and melted cheddar cheese, it's sure to put a smile on your face. So head to a BURGER KING'• restaurant soon and make sure to bring your appetite. 
The Huddle -Lafortune Student Center 

NBA 

Players file charge with labor board 
Associated Press 

Claiming thr NBA's uso or locker room camrras is an illegal change in working conditions, the league's play­ers filed an unfair labor prac­tice charge with the National Labor Helations Board. 
The union also wants to stop the NBA from using boom microphones in team huddles during timeouts. 
"'Tim NRA cannot impose thesn changes without. tho union's consent." union lawyer Robert Lanza said Monday. "While players cer­tainlv want to enhance tho game experience for every fan, these types of changes can only bo brought about through collective bargain-
TASTY BACON 
ing. We must havr a mean­ingful dialogue in order to strike the appropriate bal­ance bet.wnen acr,ess and intrusion." 
The charge was filed March 16 with the New York region­al office of the NLHB. Dan Silverman. the NLHR's New York regional director, assigns staff investigators to cases and they usually take 6-8 weeks to dntcrminc whether to issue a complaint. 
"The charge is without merit," NBA deputy commis­sioner Russ Granik said. 
Nl3A r,oaches earlier com­plained about the leagucOs attempt to put mikes on thorn during some national broad­casts. The boom mikes during huddles wore part of a com­promise with the coaches. 
~--------------··-•--··-·--· 
1••tt'""'''~fll'tl(·•' l•f-'tll'--'~•,zr,, ,~••~•c. . " .~ -\ '\ • ~._*.._~••a i; • 4: •',.; • ';"' ~••_.•~~all.': ..~•:;_"' ,t "';JI,.•..,,.-~~"..,": .o. • "'' ,.._ t _. ~ • { .. ~-.~ ._ ~" -. • •~ • !. • ~ ~,. "''!,. #_"' ",,.. f, .. "•.,~,,,_'.,a --.,, '... , , 111. • , • 
• • ' • , " • fl ' • ~ 
')'T'CT r\<T? • , ,--.. \·.
1\1\11' QI .-1~~-! , · k ...T 
Tuesday, March 28, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 

Funding Available so ...... . 
Start Your Own Tutoring Program ..... . 
and make a difference 
Interested? Come to 
1010 Flanner Hall on March 30 at 7:00 p.m. 
Brought to you by the people who brought you ACE!!!! 
• FO.R. 


(j 0 
~ ~ ~-0 

,
~ 
~ 

1J:V::>~ 



interested entrepreneurs contact John Eriksen at 1-4447 or John.R.Eriksen.l@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 28, 2000 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
PROLIFE CONF.EREN'CE
.. ·• ·• ', '. : . ··: ·'.. . . . . ' _;· i .,. 
The Ho·. 
l}~,:~.¥ 
Mandatorg ,Registr.afion By April 4. 2000 
9

R~gisteriflt http://INWWJ1~fedu/~prollfe, or call-(219) 834•1497 
Sanders singles in second game back 
Associated Pre,., 

PORT CHARLOTTE, Fla. 
With both Cincinnati Reds and Dallas Cowboys fans cheering him on Monday, Deion Sanders got back to major league base­ball, and got a hit, too. 
With two black batting gloves flapping from each of his back pockets and a thick gold chain and jeweled cross dangling from his neck, Sanders played in his second spring training game as a replacement left fielder. 
He also got a r.ouple of at-bats in Cincinnati's 9-8 loss to the Texas Rangers. Sanders grounded out to second and lined a single lo left, then slid in hard at second base as the Rangers unsuccessfully tried to turn a double play. 
"Any time you get to play wilh the big guys, that's definitely a step forward," Sanders said. 
His reemergence was an indi­cation he could be back with the Reds sooner than expected. Sanders, in camp on a minor league contract, has missed most of spring training because of a balky knee and a swollen ankle. 
A day after Dr. Timothy Krernchek predicted it would take Sanders four more weeks to get into top playing shape, the outfielder diplomatically dis­agreed. 
"Bow can I put this gently: That's Dr. Kremchek's opinion," Sanders said. "I feel good run­ning." 
The Cowboys cornerback had arthroscopic surgery on his right knee on Jan. 24 and could only hobble last month when he resumed a baseball career put on hold in 1997. Ile didn't move well in a split-squad game on March 14. going O-f'or-3. 
llis right ankle later swelled up, requiring a cortisone shot 11 days ago. He had spent the last l'ew Jays playing in minor league games. 
The Rods don't need another outfielder but general manager Jim Bowden would love to have Sanders available as a pinch runner as soon as he's healthy. 
Sanders seems headed for Triple-A Louisville to show what ho can do. How long he'll be there is the question. 
"We have a nice plan." Sanders said. "If they feel that's where I need to go to do rehab, I'll do so." 
Bowden was back in Cincinnati on Monday, missing the return of one of his favorite players. 
A buzz went through.the crowd of 4,519 when Sanders, wearing No. 12, moved into the on-deck circle in the sixth inning to pinch hit for Ken Griffey Jr. He didn't get to bat that inning because Chris Stynes made the last out, but stayed in the game as the left fielder. 
NEED CASH? 
NEW DONORS EARN $20 TODAY 
MENTION THIS AD FOR A $5.00 BONUS 
Up to $145.00 a month in 2-4 hours a week 
SERA CARE PLASMA 
234-6010 515 LINCOLNWAYWEST 


• • • 1: , ' ' • • • • • • , • ­

. • • • • f • • ••41 1-.._' •• • '--,:·:,: .. ti.-"'-...,"...:._'.•'-.._•.,_•,_··~• ·: • .' ...._••• •...' •'·,.,_' ..~-,.,:4• •,-•I•'•~,.,,"• •.,: .._~ •-' ,,_,: ·_ .""'-• _• 4 _.• • • ...' ._t .,... ·.._ _
.. 
Tuesday, March 28, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
i WOMEN'S TENNIS 
'Irish sweep Jayhawks 9-0 after 9-day layoff 
the win alrr.ndy in hand. Louderbat:k By KEVIN BERCHOU saw a great opportunity to give Guy, Sports \X·' ri I l'I" one of the squad's best doubles players. 
a chanc1s to work her way back in to the 
AftH a ni1w-clay layo!T, tlw Notn• mix. Danw \\OlllPII ·s L<'llt1is toarn was oager "She looked great out there," Dasso to rPturn to play Monday. and rdurn nott~d. "She's line to practice, and she th(•y did. blasting the ovcrwlwlmcd didn't have any pain. The only thing is, Kansas Jayliawks lJ.() al lh(' Eck Tennis she can't hit a two-handtld backhand." Pavillion. (;uy was apparnntly just fine, as she 
Tlw Irish ranw out !iring on all cylin· leanrnd with Scaringe for an 8-6 win. ; c!Prs. and from tlw match's onset it was Dasso and Varnum notched an easy !'!Par LhP .lavhawks wpn1 an enclan• win at No. 1 doubhis, while Zalinski and g1•r<'d sp,•ri,< sophomore l\ina Vaughan were victori­
"livPryotH' playPcl WPII.'' junior star ous 11t No. 2 doubles. ~1irlwll1• Dasso said. ··we were all cag<'r llaving gotten back on track with one to gPL out tlu•n• and play." o!' their best perl'ormanres of the sea­
It was Dasso that gavP t.lw Irish tlw son, the lrish 11.nticipal!\ a tough matrh !(•ad they would nnvl'r relinquish. Slw whPn Lhey attempt to tame tlrn disnwntlPd layhnwk Brooke Chiller in Wolverines or Michigan Wednesday. straigh1 sPts. SPtling an Pmphatic tone Tlw Wolverines havp lackt. d bitP this l'or tlw l'('Sl of' the match. On this dav season, posting a record of just 6-5, but thl'n' was no way tlw Irish wern going am come off their first shutout of the to losP. soason, a 7.o blanking of the !\1ichigan 
SoµhomorP Hn.ky Varnum and senior Stalt~ Spartans. The win was lhe KPHy Zalinksi l'nllm,vPd their teammate's Wolvcrin<>s' first in the Big Ten. stPrling 1'x,rn1pl1\ with strong play or "It'll be a tough match," Dasso said. lhl'ir own, as Llwv netted victorios at "W r. p Ia y them ,, v n r y ycar au d it· s No. 2 anrl No. :~ singles rc>spPctiV(\ly. always closP. 11'11 he a little more impor­Zali11ski saw her match slretchcd lo a tant because it's a regional match." third SPL, tlw only tinw all day Notre :Vlichigan boasts solid sin~les play, Damr would go to lhrlic. Zalinski. how­headed bv Rrookc Ilart and Danielle f'Wir. rPconkd yet anollwr singles wi.n Lund. • and moving 0111• step closer to thP "Their singles are good," Dasso noted. s«·hool n•,·ord !'or career singles wins. "It's probably their strength." 
With tlw match clinched after singles Though the Wolverines are strong in play. lwad coac!1 Jay Louderback decid· one-011-0110 matches, the Irish will likely Pd to do sonw ,~xpPrinwnting with his still have an advantage. Dasso and doubll's pairings. Varnum have been playing well of late. 
l.oudNback chosP lo play Kimbc1rly The Irish should sec a noticeable Dasso with Sarah Scaringe at No. 3 upswing in their doubles play. The doubles. The mov11 was unexpected, as return of Guy, even at partial strength, Guy had bl'Pll sidelined for over a moves to stabilize a doubles lineup that month with a wrist injury and was not is desperately looking to rngain its early thought to bn rnady to compete. Having season form. 

0 

Fr. Bill Wack, CSC /Hillebrand Karen$,'. ,+,. ,,, r& the 
:.<h 
NotreDa 
• 

Saturday, Al:,ri 
South Dining Hall • 10:00 am 5:30 pm 
(ZMPUS 
-Join v~ foY ltl,L--oY parf-of the-da~f
MINl5TRY 



page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 28, 2000 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish drop to 9-7 with losses to Tar Heels, Blue Devils 
By RACHEL BIBER Spons W ricer 

Defeat is usually tough to swallow, but tho 23rd-rankNl ll'ish men's tennis t,iarn 
wrn.pperl up a WP<'kencl of com­p et it ion with an Psp!icinlly bitter taste in thPir mouths aftt'r losing to both 2 8 t h ­raukrid N o r t h Carolina an<l 5th-rnnkc<l Dukti. to fall to 9-7 on the season. 
Notre Dame kicked off' its comp1otition on a high note Saturday against the Tar llcnls by wi1111i11g thr doubles point to notch a 1-0 lead. Thi~ advan­tage disappP-ared, though, and North Carolina rallied for the 4-3 win with straight set sin­gles wins al Nos. 2, 4, 5, and G. 
"The North Carolina match was a tough match to lose," Irish coach Bob Bayliss said. "We played pretty hard, and it could have gone either way, but it was an opportunity we let slip through our lingers." 
North Carolina's defeat of the 1rish marks its first win over a Top 25 tPam since April 
6. 1997 when they beat 25th­ranked Virginia 6-1, and was a highlight of ttwir a recent seven-match winning strPak. 
The 37th-ranked doubles team of Irish sophomores Javier Taborga and Aaron Talarico beat the Tar !!eels' BP-n Elix and Tripp Phillips 8-5 at :'IJo. 1 doubles. improving to 15-6 on the year. Seniors 

Hyan Sachire and Trnn1. Miller followed suit with an 8-2 vir.to­ry over North Carolina's Tyne Brownlow and David Cheatwood at No. 2 doubles to gi"r the Irish the lead heading into singles. 
But North Carolina camp back. winning four of drn six remaining singl<•s mntchi:s. 
Tcnth-rankncl Sacili1•c and Matt Daly both pullPd tlirnugh to provide the lmrn singlPs vic­tories for Llw Irish al'lPr drop­ping thn first set in their matches. All-AmPrican Sachirc boat 47th-rankcd Phillips 4-6. (1·4, Ci-:~ at No. I singles, whilP Daly del'Pated Cheatwood 2-6, 6-0, (1-0 al No. 3 singlPs. 
Thr Irish clung to Llwir lmtd, hut dropped close matches at Nos. 4 and :i singlns, allowing North Carolina to SPcuro the victory and im provf1 its record to 10-2. 
Notre DamH's Taborga was defeated 7-6, 7-6 at No.4 sin­gles while Andrew Laflin was downed by the same score al No. 5 singles. 
"We could have won Ithe Nos. 4 and 5 singles matches] and won 5-2. But 'could of. would of, should or donsn't get it done," Bayliss said. 
Following their loss to thn Tar Heels, the Irish traveled to Durham, ]\j_ C., to take on tho Blue Devils on Sunday. but they left any snnsc of force on the tennis courts in Chapel Hill. 
The Notre Dame squad lost the doubles point and won just one singles match in its fi-1 loss to Duke. 
Duke took all three doubles matches from a scrambled Irish lineup to secure a 1-0 lead going into singles play. 
Saint Mary's College presents Tennesee Williams' play 

Tabnrga. who usually pairs with Talarico at No. I doubles, did not play on Sunday dun to a shoulder injury, lnaving the duo of Sachin• and Miller to fill in 1111) top slot. 
Duke's thircl-rankNI team of Doug Hoot and llams!1y Smith boaL Sachir<• and Miller 8-6, while Notre Dam,•'s Casey Smith and .lamos \ilalham;! weni also Pdgnd by tlw seorn of' 8-<i at No. 2 doubles. Talarico and Daly u1aml'd up for tlw f'irst tinw and lost 8-2 in tht1 No. :1 matcll. Sachirn he !cl ol'I' a Bl UP n,,vil sweep with a <,-:{, '1-4 win ovPr Dukfl's 42nd-ranklid Hnot in the l\io. I singl,•s match. Thn victo,·y improves Sarhirn's sin­gles record to 2:i-<J on tlw year and marks his 12th win or tlw year :it No. I sing!Ps. 
Tim BILw Dnvils t.lH~n reeled off a string or straight set vic­tori ns in Urn rnmaining f'iv<' singles matclrns to take honrn the win. 


1-111-ean-111 WINGS @BW-3's 



It's officially Spring. Time for baseball, but not just baseball. .. 
NOTRE DAME BASEBALL 
Tues. Mar. 28 vs. Central Mich. 5:00pm Wed. Mar. 29 vs. UW-Milwaukee 5:00pm 

Other scheduled presenters include student researchers and a panel discussion of life after peace studies. 
For more information or to present a paper, please visit www.nd.edu/ ~krocinst/2000Roads.html or call (219)631-6970 
• 
Maintain your total cholesterol below 200 

• 
Maintain your blood pressure below 140/90 (or below (ii"\ 130/85 if you have 


V 
diabetes. heart failure or certain kidney problems) 
• Maintain your weight at an appropriate level 

LEADERSHIP INSTITUTE 
Preparing Tomorrow's Leaders Today 
Phase One of the Leadership Institute (LI) is a non credit leadership course open to Freshmen leaders. Designed for the first year leader or newly elected officers and commissioners, LI explores topics such as conflict resolution, understanding leadership styles, building teams and motivating members. Phase One of the LI will be held Wednesday evenings from 6:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. beginning April 5, 2000. This semester we are offering LI over five weeks to fit in your busy schedule! 
To enroll, complete the application form below by March 31 and return to the Student Activities Office. Enrollment is limited to 25 participants. If you are accepted as a participant, you will receive an E-mail 
__-..£~.~.r2:.m~i~~~r... ~t;.21,2!"~~~]!.a~ ~~u ~U~!2!, iC~![e~L' l~2..0.!:_F_:.m~l.l1£>f~-~~-___ 
LEADERSHIP INSTITUTE APPLICATION FORM 
E-Mail Address 
Campus Address 
rganizations you are involved in and leadership positions held, if any: 
Please return this bottom portion to the Student Activities Office, 315 Lafortune Student Center by 3/31 /00 

2000 National Invitation 

page 26 

. First-year coach leads Notre Dame into NIT semifinal 
By BRIAN KESSLER A~sistrn, Sports Editor 

Two weeks ago, first-year head coach Matt Doherty was forced to put a little detour in this year's game plan. 
Winning an NIT champi­onship wasn't in his original list of five goals that he set forth at the beginning of the season. Nevertheless. Doherty and the Irish (21-14) are cher­ishing the possibility of bring­ing home a title. 
"Wouldn·t it be nice to hang an NfT bannflr in thn Joyce Center," Doherty said. "Darn right." 
Notre Dame will have that opportunity starting tonight at 9 p.m. when it faces Penn State in the semifinals. The Irish will also have a chance to address two of Doherty's goals -getting better every day and winning the next game. 
Doherty's other three goals -winning the Big East regu­1ar season. the Big East Championship and the NCAA Tournament -passed the Irish by this season. but there is always next year. 
Those goals may have been lofty expectations for a team that hadn't been in the post­season in two vears and had never won ·a Big East 



UZ LANG/The Observer 
Head coach Matt Doherty looks on in a nail bitter against BYU in the NIT quarterfinal. Doherty will lead his team into battle against Penn State tonight at Madison Square Garden. 

North Carolina State (20-12) 
_J Tuesday l.....___1_p.m_._ 

Championship Game Wake Forest (20-14)Thursday 7 p.m. 
Consolation Game Thursday 4:30 p.m. 
(I 
KRIS FORCIER/The Observer 

North Carolina State, like Notre Dame, had an up and down season. The Wolfpack knocked off teams like Purdue, Maryland and Virginia, while suf­fering close losses to Duke and North 
."\ 

Carolina. Freshman Damien Wilkins has come on strong for the 'Pack, and other top players are guard Anthony Grundy and forward Kenny Inge. 
Wake Forest has won six of its past seven games. The Deamon Deacons will be 'raring to go against their ACC archrival. The two teams split their games this season. Wake Forest is led by junior guard Robert O'Kelley and sophomore forward Darius Songaila. Four of their five starters are 6-foot-5 or taller. 



Tournament  game.  But  
Doheny doesn't know  any  
other standard.  

He played with :'vfichaol Jordan at ~orth Carolina and h0lped tlrn Tar lleols to the 1982 NCAA Championship. As an assistant roar.I, at Kansas. Doherty teamed up with Hoy Williams to lead tho Javhawks to the 199:1 Final Four.· 
And now he has brought that same winning philosophy to South Bond. Most impor­tantly, his players have bought into it. 
"At first you might have thought bis goals were a littlo outrageous," sophomore All­American Troy Murphy said. "But he's a pretty amazing guy. We've got 21 wins and a loi of teams would like to be in the semifinals of the NIT. And he's never been a head coach before." 
Not a bad resume for a first­year head coach that took over a 14-16 Irish basketball team. He also led Notre Dame to an 8-8 conference mark, a seven seed in the Big East Tournament -both school records. 
Ilis team's victory over Rutgers in the Big East tour­ney was the program's first in its live year history in the con­ference. 
Yet Doherty realizes his accomplishments and knows that claiming the NIT title isn't a "win or bust" situation for the program. And he knows in the back of his mind that one great opportunity may have 
Sizing up the NIT Final Four 
passed his team by this sea­
son. 

"That's lrnnn part of our mission -to prove to the NCAA committ0e that they made a mistak1'.," Doherty told Lhe Associated Press Monday during a lunclrnon to intro­duce the coaches of the \!IT semifinals. ··1 tell the team to look at Wisconsin lin the NCAA tournament]. They have 1:-, losses. That could have been us. 
"These four [I\TI'l teams could he in that other tonrna­m en t, but I. uh, forget the namo of it," Dohorty joked. 
But being slighted by the NCA/\ committee has served as motivation for Doherty and his troops and won't soften his approach for this Final Four. 
"We've talked about proving them wrong since the begin­ning of this tournament. We Wl.'ffl disappointHd at not mak­ing the NCAAs, and that's no slight to the NIT. I'm grateful to the NIT because I think we should be playing for some kind of championship," Doherty told the AP at the lun­
clrnon. 

Doherty, a Nnw York native, will return home and look to give Notre Dame its first-ever NIT title. 
"There' is a f'ine line between tho competition in college bas­ketball today," Doherty told the AP at the luncheon "It's all about execution, making shots, biorhythms and the stars and the moon being in the right place that day." 
r~"!I 
,-r~~.
o11f/flla'All 
Penn State(18-15) 
Tuesday 9 p.m. 
Notre Dame(21-14) 

Notre Dame fell just shy of an NCAA Tournament berth and is anxious to quiet its critics by sweeping the NIT. All· American forward Troy Murphy is tough to stop and tougher if teammates David Graves and Matt Carroll can get hot from behind the 3-point line. The Irish need to 
/~ 

avoid turnovers and play to their own poten­tial rather than that of their opposiition. 
Penn State has been rolling to victory since the Big Ten Tournament ended. An experienced squad led by Jarrett Stephens and Joe Crispin surprised Ohio State by handing the Buckeyes an upset defeat. If the Nittany Lions play like they have in March, they could threaten for the title. If they are in their February form, they'll be in the consolation game. 


Invitation Tournament 


Tuesday, March 28, 2000 page 27 
Notre Dame stands two wins away from NIT title 
conununicatP-loud and clrar in
• Irish in search 
tonight's semifinals match-upof school's first­against Lim l'enn State Nittany Lions 118-1:il.
ever postseason 
'Tm just looking forward to
championship going back Lo New York, prov­ing the [NCJ\\ Tournament sP!ertionJ
By KATHLEEN O'IJRIEN 
<·ommitlec NIT Final 
A,.;"m:iirc Spurts Fdit()l 
wrong. and 
Four

showing ThP Irish nwn's haskt·dball e v ;) ry body at Madison t1•am waits t1vo wins away that we could 
Square Garden,
from it ('('at nrvcr before have ber-n in arromplishcd al Notr<' Damp the tourna­New York -a ('hampionship in a post­rr1 en L." sPason tournarrn,nt sophomore 
N.C. State vs.
\:\' i n n in g till' N a tin n a I forward lnvitcLliun Tournallll'lll may llaruld Wake Forest not lw thn pinnae!(, of rnllege Swanagan 
7 p.m.

baskPtball: that's something said. rPsPrv1·d for thP I\C\A 
The Nittanv Tnurnanwn1 rhampion. llut for Lions, wh;i Noire Dame vs. ,L baskl'tball program that last have been on 
Penn State

\\un 20 ganws in LhP 1988-89 f'ini sincP s,·asnn and most. n•cpntly qual­starting tliP g p.rn. il'iPcl for till' I\CAJ\ tournanwnt 
postseason. a dPradP ago, C'Utling down the stand in the way of an Irish nPts in Madison SquarP celebration. (;ardc•n \\'ould send the mes­Since dropping five straightsagl' that i\'otrr• Danw baskrt­conference games to dose out lmll is back. the regular season. Penn State That's a mrssagP that ;\Jotrr won five of six in the Big Ten Daml' (21-141 would like to tournanrnnt and NIT. Three of 

Senior point guard Jimmy Dillon looks to get the ball into the post during the lrish's win over the Cougars. The victory sent Notre Dame to the semifinals where it will take on Penn State. 
those victories have bP-en ovor teams Notre Dame also del'cat­ed -Michigan, Ohio State and SiPna. 
"I know that they're playing really well right now," Notre Damn sophomore David GravAs said. "I remember dur­
-ing the middle of the season they weren't doing too well, but obviously they made a big run and a big surge and they wun some quality games. It's going to he a battle." Penn State turns to the inside tundem of senior for­ward Jarrrtt Strphnns and junior forward Titus Ivory, both of whom average in dou­blP-digits. Stephens. who scores 18.7 points per game and pulls down 10.7 rebounds. was the only Big Ten player to com­plete the year in the top five in both categori<;s. lie rncordnd 19 double doubles this year. Brothers Joe and Jon Crispin pose a perimeter threat for the Irish. Joe Crispin. a junior guard, pours in 18.8 points per game. while .Jon, a freshman guard, adds 9.5 points per out­ing. The siblings are buddies of Notre Dame freshman guard Matt Carroll. a Pennsylvania nativP-. "The only thing I know about Penn State is the Crispin brothers because Matt Carroll is good friends with them," Graves said after Notre Dame beat Brigham Young to advance to the semifinals. "I know that thev're tremendous shooters. and ·they really look for their shots." The Irish will be looking to get Graves some open shots, who is tied for thr school record in single-season 3-point field goals with 80. Carroll and senior point guard .Jimmy Dillon should dish out the ball, as both have tallied at least fivr. assists in each of Notre Dame's three NIT games. Troy Murphy, a 6-f'oot-9 power forward who was named a consensus first team All-American this season, needs to work his way free for shots wherever he can get them. Murphy. who averages 
22.9 points and 10.5 rebounds per game, gets double-and triple-teamed every time he sets foot on the court. The Irish need to find a way to get him the ball inside to beat a red-hot Nittany Lions squad. 

"We're not just going to go there happy that we made it to the semifinals," Graves said. "We're going to prove to everybody who counted us out that we're legit and that we should be in the tournament." 
The winner will play the vic­tor of the North Carolina State­Wake Forest game in the finals at 7 p.m. Thursday, while the two losers will face off in a consolation game Thursday at 

4:30 p.m. 
"Now we want to win this first game, because they have a consolation game in the NIT," Doherty said. "Nobody likes to play in a consolation game, so that might be a good motivator for us." 
Both the Irish and the Nittany Lions are looking for their first ever NIT title. 
rebounding: Penn State·8 
the inside 
Jarrett Stephens and bench: l\'otrc Dame gets experience: Four ofPenn

1Votre !Jame's Troy heltf'r production offits State's starters are.lfurphy each grab neorly 
edge 


bench. with solid out­
upperclassmen. while , 1 rebounds per 

side shooters in only Notre Dame startsgame. The Irish get the 
Overall

lngelsby, Macura and only on(' senior. Severaledge thanks to a better Monserez, as well as an ofthe Nittany Lions Notre Dame and Pennsupporting cast 
records: 21-14 

-2 up-and-coming inside played in the NITJlnals State have fared
series: 0

t4> 
shooting: The Niltany Uons' player in Kartelo. two years ago. similarly against com­Crispin brothers are a dan­
EVEN mon opponents. The

g('rous duo. hut Gra,•es 
Irish pulled off more

records: 1 8-15 and Carroll can shoot the coaching: The experience intangibles: The Irish are
series: 2-0 rock j(Jr the Irish. upsets this season. 
is on the side ufPenn out to prove they were 
Redemption after miss·

Statl''s Jerry D1tnn. who worthy ofan NCAA 
ing out on the Big Dance

ball-handling: Notre Dame 
is in his fifth year. Notre 
tournament berth.Last meefing in 1954 especially as two teams for the 11th straight year
f~J has a tendency lu turn Dame·s Mau DohertyNC4A East Regional Pinal ll"orked wonders in his with r3 losses advance could come in the form 
.. J.~.~.. ~.·!·W.·." the r,,a_ll over. Joe Crispin .first year at the helm for 
.. ~.?~.·.· ... ·'.' 

to the Final Four. An NIT
. of an NIT banner.
BAiiJfBAJi and_ I llan luorf! are .
Penn State 71, 
· · · terrific al Jeedmg thezr the Irish. getting them title would help salvage Notre Dame 63 leammates. their first 20-u•in season Penn State's season. 
in more than a decade. 

page 28 
The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 28, 2000 
VOLLEYBALL 

Irish recruiting class ranked ninth in nation 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame hearl vollevball coach Debbie Brown's 2000 recruiting class has h1rnn ranked ninth nationally in the l\.lav 2000 issue of Volleyball Magazine, one of the sp.ort's most well-known and oldest monthly publications. 
Tlw Irish class of 2004. which is comprised ol" middle blor,ker Kim Fletchel' outside hitter .IPssica Kinder, sett('r Kristen Kinder and middle blocker Katherine Neff signi>d lettPrs of intent in early February. 
Two of the four recruits, Kristen Kinder and Fletcher. were also uamed to Lhn publi­cation·s "Fab 50"' list. The "Fab 50" list is an annual list of the country's high school seniors who have the most promise as collegiate µlayers according lo the magazine. 
Kristen Kinder and f.letclwr wi.11 join live other former Fab 50 seler,tions next season including seniors Denise Boylan, Christi Girton and Jo Jameyson and juniors Marcie Bomhack and Metlinda Goralski. 
Other former !~ab 50 sel<1e­tions to play for thn Irish included 1999 Big liasl. Player of tho Year Mary Lcffors, first all-conference sPloction and current assistant coach Lindsay Treadwell, All-American Jamie Lee and first team ull-districl selections Angie llarris and Can'y \>1ay. 
Please Recycle The Observer. 
Bookstore Basketball Captains' Meeting 


Boosktore 
Boosktore
Email: 
Bkstr.1 @nd edu 
Office: 
631-6028 
2000 
EVERY TEAM MUST THIS THURSDAY HAVE AREPRESENTATIVE MARCH 30TH 5pm 101 DEBARTOLO 
BECAUSETHEREII!VIBEAIIIV/VilTlPIAf 

The Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies at the University of Notre Dame has been awarded a special grant to place Notre Dame students from all colleges and all degree levels as 
Kauffman Entrepreneur Interns starting summer 2000! 
Successful Kauffman Entrepreneur Interns will receive: 
• 
An exciting paid job experience with an entrepreneurial business 

• 
A great resume reference as a Kauffman Entrepreneur Intern 

• 
Flexible summer internships across the country and school-year internships in South Bend 

• 
Structured mentoring relationship with the founder or entrepreneur of the sponsoring company 


Yes. dot.com internship opportunities will be available 
p pA I D I N T E R N s H I $ 
You're invited to the kickoff meeting of the most exciting paid internship program yet! 
The Kickoff Meeting is on Tuesday, March 28 at 6 p.m. Room 160, College of Business 
Plenty of pizza -lots of soda -Yes. We'll even feed you. How good can th1s get? 
These paid internships are limited -don't delay. 
THIS PROGRAM IS SPONSORED BY THE GIGOT CENTER FOR ENTREPRENEURIAL STUDIES AND THE EWING MARION KAUFFMAN FOUNDATION. 
These internships are open to all colleges, all majors and all University of Notre Dame Students. Women and minority students are especially encouraged to apply. 
The Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies is located at: 234 College of Business Call us at: 631-3809 or e-mail us at: Theresa.B.Sed1ack.4@nd.edu or: Jfalkine@nd.edu 
v 9KAUFFMAN CENTER~
~1¦ .FOR ENTREPRENEURIAL LEADERSHIP 
Tuesd.iy, March 28, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 29 
Baseball 
continued from page 32 
wiLh a .321J av1iragc. Anson was indurtPd into tho Baseball Hall of Fanw in CoopPrsLown. NY. in I 1>:11,. 
l\fany otlwr play<'rs from till' prt'-\\'orld \Var II t•ra of Irish basrhall wPnl on to major l1'agw· rnr1•1•rs, including Fred ··cy" \Villiams, who playod f'or thP Irish l'rorn -1•110-1912 and wPnl on lo brconw a four-time National i.Pagur• balling cham­pion 
ll \\ils during Lill' 19:iO's that lwo of' llw most signilirnnt play­<'rs won• an Irish uniform. 
Yaz and the '57 Irish 
lrnni"allv. llw most famous Irish playPr this c1·ntury nrv<'r anuallv lllok the\ f1dd in a game. 
Bostc;n HPd Sox I lall ol' Famrr Carl Yasztrnmski -onr. ol' thr grc>atcisl Anwrican ath!Pt11s dur­ing thP ! l)(10's and '70's ­atl1·11d1•d Notrn Danw during llHi 
I 'J57-!'i8 aradf'mir vcar and praC'ticPcl with thP ·basPball warn. ,\t this linrn, how1)VtH".· NCAA ruliis prp,v1H1lnd l'rt>shmf'n l'rom arlually playing in ganws. 
"W1• pfay1'd against tJw rrnsh­nwn in inLPrsquad gamc>s biu·k tlwn," said f'ornwr outf'iPldrr and rut-r!'nl AXI\Cutiv!' dirnclor of' thl' NotrP Dami' Alumni Association Chuc·k LPnnon. "I n·mrmbPr chasing a line shot ol' his. it was rising at abuu l 340 fn<'l. I was running through thP goalposls in old Cartil'r FiPld." 
Anotlwr nwmbPr of thr. I 'K,7 tPam gainPd his l'anw on thP lit,Jd for tlw Irish. In lrnding tlw 1%7 ti•am to a third-plare fin­ish in Uw Collq.;r \Vorld S1'ri0s -Notre• Danw's higlwsl linish 1'vrr -.lim Morris battrd an incrPdiblP .714 to st'! a rPrord for higlwst batting avNagr. in a C:ollc'g<' World SPriPs that still stands tod,Ly. 
"It was just otw of thosP timPs 
wlwn PVPrything was going 

1l­
photo counesy of spans information 

Irish fans spend an afternoon at Cartier Field, which served as the Notre Dame baseball team's home for its first 85 years. 
good," says Morris, who is now the rnligious school director at his local parish. "In fact. two of the out:, I made were line dri­ves." 
Hon HcRd pitclwd for the Irish in 1965. prnceding a major Ir.ague career in which he would win 146 gamr.s in 19 yr,ars. Recd also played in the NBA. Kevin Hardy was Notre Dame's first three-sport athlete in the ser,ond half or the century, play­ing basc,ball in 1964 and '65 whilP also playing basketball and football. 
Moving to more recent play­rrs, in 1989 outfielder Dan Peltier was a Basr.ball !\merka tirst-tcam All-Amerkan. Peltier, who was also a two-time GTE Acad(1mic All-Amerirnn. went on to play for the Texas Hangers and San rrancisc.o Giants. 
Currently, therP is onlv one Notre Dam~ alum playing in the major l0agues. Craig Counsel! playr.d shortstop for thr. Irish from 1989 th rough 1992, setting a school ror.ord for career dou­bles and serving as captain as a 
s0nior. 
World Series Hero 

Counsel( was drafted by the Colorado Horkies in the 11th round of Lhe 1992 draft. and cvontually made the major leagues as a second baseman in 1997. Later that season, the Rockies traded him to the Florida \1arlins. who eventually made it to the World Series. 
In the seventh game of the Seri0s against the Cleveland Indians, Counsel! forced the game into a tic with a sacrifice 11y in the ninth. An inning later. Counsell scored the winning win of the series after advancing home on a hit by shortstop Edgar Renteria. 
Counsel!, who currently is in spring training with the Arizona Diamondbacks competing for a spot as a backup infielder, is a member of the only father-son combination to both servo as team captains at Notre Dame. His father, John, served as cap­lain while playing right field for the Irish in 1964. 
"I fepl so fortunatt> to have a son who played the same sport, attended lhP, same school, and was the type of player to end up in a leadership position," said John Counsell, who now resides in Fort Myers, Fla. 
The tie that binds 
While the Unites States expe­rienced the Great Depression, two World Wars, and the presi­dency of Hichard Nixon during the period between 1915 and 1975, for 49 seasons in the 62­vear stretch Clarence "Jake" Kline was involved in the Notre Dame baseball program. 
Kline played on the varsity squad from 1915-1 917, serving as a captain in his senior sea­son. I-le hit .300 each season and once hit three home runs in a game, still tied for the Irish single-game record. After light­ing in the war and pursuing a professional baseball career. Kline returned to Notre Dame in 1931. 
I-le-would never leave. 
After serving as freshman coach from 1931 through 1933, Kline was named varsity coach in 1934. I le maintained the posi­tion until his retirement after the 1975 season at the age of 
81. Kline remained involved in the program until his death in 1989 at the age of 94. 
During his tenure as coach, he led many successful teams. The 1949 squad finished 20-8, earn­ing the Irish their first ever appearance in the NCAA Championships. The Irish would advance to the NCAA Championships seven more times under Kline. including the famous '57 team that finished third in the College World Series. 
"We didn't have that good of a record going in," said Morris. "We barely got into the NCAA tournament at all, and then when we did we played very well." 
By the later years of bis career, Kline had become some­what or a legend. He was inducted into the College Baseball Hall of Fame in 19(;8. Kline seemed to know every­body in baseball, and his mind was as strong as ever. 
"There was a little bit of a generational gap because at the time he was our coach ho was in his late 70's. It was an interest­ing time in history with the end of the war," said Dick Nussbaum, who played outfield for the Irish from 1971-74, ''The one thing that we had in com­mon was our love of the game. 

Despite the fact that he'd been around as long as he had, he still had a great knowledge of the game." 
Changing venues 
For the majority of the first 85 years that Notre Dame fielded a varsity team, home games were held at Cartier Field. which is located in an area that now con­sists of the quad betwflen Notre Dame Stadium and the 1-Iesburgh Library. These fields can be seen during the scenes on the football practice fields in the movie Knute Rockne: All­Amerkan. 
In 1977, the team moved to a new facility that would be known as Jake Kline Field. in honor of the famous coach. This field is located in the area where Rolfs Recreation Center now stands. Between 1988 and 1993 Notre Dame also played some home games at Coveleski Stadium in South Bend, where the local minor league games usually take place. 
The Irish moved into their current facility in 1994, Frank Eck Stadium, which features one of the finest press boxes in the nation and a very large club­house. 
No matter where the Irish have played their home games, they have always been involved in the community. 
Giving back to Notre Dame 
Many former players have gone on to important roles at Notre Dame and within the Notre Dame community. Lennon, of r,ourse, has built up one of the most successful alum­ni programs of any university in the country. 
Dick Rosenthal played first base in 1952 and '53 before serving as the predecessor to Mike Wadsworth as Notre Dame's athletir, director. Current associate athletic direc­tor Tom Kellv coached the team from 1976 to.1980. 
Joe Kernan. who r,aught for the Irish from 1967-68, servr.d two terms as mayor of South Bend before taking his rurrent post as Indiana lieutenant gov­ernor. 
Dick Nussbaum, whose son Matt is a tri-raptain on the cur­rent team, now works as a gen­eral rounscl to Kernan. 
"When we played we all were students first and athletes sec­ond simply because the baseball program was not as big a deal then as it is now," the elder Nussbaum said. "We were almost all walk-ons. I think it helped all ol' us bemuse when we gol to the world we wcrr. able to compete. We learned discipline, hard work, and com­petition while playing baseball." 
Oe/iu,e~i,r/ TkB~t Pizza.I W@Glij ~fll@ @ . ©@~ '1m@~cflG)~gg  
12 , Anytime Anytime you call between you call between 5:30 & 7:00, 10:30-12:59 9 the price of yourthe price of yourI 2 large 1 large 1 topping 6 topping pizzas pizza is the time you call.is the time you call. * Plus tax* Plus tax  
r----Lunch Speciai ___; 1 Small 1 Topping 1 ND store I 2 Cans of Coca-Cola product I Saint Mary's/ I $5 99 I •L ______ _:_ ______J North Village Mall 271-1177 271-PAPA  

page .30 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 28, 2000 
SOFTBALL 
Irish fall to Michigan, place second at Invite 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN 
Spons Wrirt..·r 
N11trn Dame sof'tball rnm­bi1wd for a season-lligh rP.cord of 16 hits as it finishi>d ser.ond in th(' I3oilermakPr Invitational ovrr the wePkimd. 
ThP No. 22 Irish, who improved to 22-8 overall. went 3-1 at Purdue. falling only to thn tournament champion No. I 3 Michigan. 
Junior MPlanie Alkire and sr1phomon· Jennifer Kriech led the Irish as they werr. named to thrall-tournament team. 
Alkire and J1mnifer Sharron led Notn~ Damp offensively as it grabbr:d a total of 16 hits to dPft>at Kent StatP 12-4 in game on Saturday. 
Th(' Golden Flashes grabbed nn early lead with four runs in the top of the third beforn the Irish struck back. Alkire fin­ishi>d thf' rallv with a two-run homt' run to top the live Irish nms in tlw bottom of the third. Foor mori> Irish players crossed the plate during the fourth. including two on a dou­blf' by Alkire. 
The Irish grabbed three mnrP runs in the sixth. includ­ing two on a home run by Sharron. to put tlw Golden Flashes awav. 
Alkire also led Notre Dame defensively, earning the win on the mound. to improve her rPcord to 5-0 on the season. Sophomore Michelle Moshe! grabbed the save with six strikeouts and no hits. 
In game two action on 

Saturdav. Notre Dame foll to No. 13 Mirhigan 5-1 for its only loss ol' the tournament. The \Volvt1 rines got rcvengr. for their NC'1\ Tournament loss to the Irish. Andn•a Loman tripled and srored Notre Damt'S lone run on an infield singli• by Andrlit l3ledsoe. 
Tlw Irish came on strong in the first game Sunday to del'eat Toledo 12-1. The Hockcts totaled just three hits while Notre Dame racked up 13. 
Kriech kicked off the scoring for the Irish with a double beforn scoring on an l{HI by Alkire in tho first. 1\Jotre name then went up 5-0 with a big ser:ond inning. 
Tho Irish grabbed thrcn runs in thr third beforn scoring two morr runs in both the fourth and !iflh to finish the Rockets. 
After a split decision last week ,tt home. the Irish came back tu show Purdue who is in charge with a 4-0 win. The vic­tory rlinchcd ser,ond plar.0 in the tournament for Notre Dame. 
The game was scoroloss through the fourth. Danitdle Klayman, who finished :~-f'or-3. singlrd in the lil'th and S<'Ored on 11 RBI single by Kriec.h to give Notre Dame its first run. Bledsoe and Alkire rach added an Rl3! single to aid the Irish. 
Pitcher Sharron earned her 11th win of tho srason (11-4) and seventh solo shutout while allowing just two hit-, and strik­ing out seven. 
Notre Oame next plays on Wednesdav, when it will host a doubleheader with Eastern 

Alkire earns second Big East honor 
Special to The Obsen·er 

For the second lime this season. Notrn Dame softball player Melanie Alkirn has been namt,d the Big East 
Player of the Weck for her strong perfor­mances in Notre Dame's S i X 


g a 111 e s I a s t  Alkire  
wnrk.  
Alkire, who rcccivt~d  tlrn  
same  honor  March  13.  

shares thr award with Sf'ton I!all's Vickit• I.amb. 
Alkire hit .450 19-for-20! last week. including thrrw runs scored. l'ivt• doubles and 11 HBI. 
Slw went a pcrfort 2-0 on the mound to movP hPr overall pitching n,cord to (>­0 in 2000. 
The junior shortstop/pitch­Pr hit .571 in four games to lead Notrn Dame to a sPr­on d-pl ace finish at tlrn Boilermahr Invitational in West Lafavette, Ind .. earn­ing all-tournament honors for the second timn this sea­son. 


Sp.onsored ..by Student Gove.rnment 

Tuesday, March 28, 2000 The Observer . TODAY 

FOURTH AND INCHES 
wow, :JORl:>t>.W'.H\ 1MPl<.ESS£D 0 S£~ '\'ovTf\¥.E AN INTE~T 
;.;::::===1 "l:N ~ C.LASS i'OV DON'T E>J£.l'J 
Fox TROT 
PE.TER, PA1&E NEEDS 
You To MOVE THE 
CAR So SHE CAN 
G.ET To HER 81KE. 
~1'Vl:: I 1,.,/0VLD SE. \.\ONDRtD
___., 
I PARKED IN THE SAME 
SPoT IN THE GARAGE 
THAT I ALWAYS Do. 
I 
Tl-tERE'S PLENTY of RooM To &ET THAT To THE 8tl<E RACK. HER 
WHAT'S THE  811<:E  
PRo6\.EM?  WASN'T  
'  lfll THE  
81KE  
RAC!<.  
I  


TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 
So THAT'S I Tll!ED To WHAT THAT EXPLAIN To CIWNCHlfllG HER THE SoUND WAS. EFFECT 
I RELATl\llST1C SPEEDS HAVE ON YoUR EYESIGHT.
l;;:~
-'f' 
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 
6 RO/\'O To n{AT Df<.E 
E~ aoy-,~t-11tLLIN IT'':> ALL IN R.,)l;~eR. P.E"ict\Y GoL-o! I CAL.I,. 1T ... 


Lesson #22: How to feign interest in the most worthless job, whatsoever. 
beam.1@nd.edu 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Deadline for IH Team Tennis 
Sign up today! 
Thursday, 
March 30 
Rec:Sports Office Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 1-6100 • http://www.nd.edu/~recsport 


41 Cementheads 47 Horror icon 42 Not chunky, as 
Lugosi peanut butter 50 Archery wood 43 Raindrop 51 High dudgeon sounds 
52 Put the kibosh 44 Sun: Prefix on 
45 Suisse range 53 Gangster's gun 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
TUESDAY, MARCH 28, 2000 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Dianne Wiest, Reba McEntire, Neil Kinnock, Frank Murkowski, Dirk Bogarde, Karen Kain, Vince Vaughn 
Happy Birthday: You'll be off to the races this year. Interaction with others will lead you in new direc­tions. You will stand up for your rights and take on any challenge. Your sharp mind will help you take action quickly. You will get what you want as long as you're persistent. Your numbers: 6, 14, 18, 25, 39, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You may be taken advantage of if you are too eager to please others. Don't make promises you can't keep and be sure not to offer to pay for other's entertainment. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't let your jealous nature get out of hand today. Arguments with your partner will lead to loneliness and possible estrangement. 00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Trav­el will beckon your wandering spirit, but consider the cost before you take off. Your responsibilities must be taken care of first. 000 
CANCER Qune 21-July 22): You may get angry if others try to take advantage of your generosity. You may misplace your wallet if you aren't careful. Competitive games may cause disputes. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Anger will mount if you aren't attentive towards your mate. Be sure to call if you're going to be late. Problems with your boss may cause you to work overtime, 000 
Birthday Baby: You will continually look for something that will add adventure and excitement to your life. You will never back down from a chal­lenge and will use your chann and wit to help you excel throughout life. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) C 2000 Universal Press Syndicate 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Preoc­
cupation will lead to minor acci­
dents. You must try to think before 
you speak; tempers will flare up if 
you have been tactless. 00000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Chil­dren will make you very proud today if you have taken the time to help them with their efforts. You may find an older member of your family too demanding. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Emotionally you may find it difficult to express yourself to loved ones. However, you will be able to concen­trate on serious matters pertaining to your future goals. 0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't let others stand in your way. Do your own thing and don't ask for permission. In-laws can cause a lot of grief if you allow them to interfere in your personal dreams. 
000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Let go of the past, and you'll be sur­prised how much you can accom­plish. Your emotional well-being depends on your ability to see all the possibilities. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Energetic activities will fill your day. Be prepared to venture into areas you may have little knowledge about. Be yourself and everything will fall into place. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You should spend some time developing a creative hobby you enjoy. You may tum your outlet into a moneymaking venture. Your ability to work with details will give you an edge. 0000 

48 Melange 49 Amazing to behold 54 Small amount of 
milk 55 Rent out again 56 Met song 57 Gets soaked 58 Up to one's ears 
59 TelePrompTer display 
DOWN 
1 ''The Joy Luck 
Club" author 2 "Caught you!" 3 Taro dish 
4 One of 17 in a haiku 
S French president Jacques 
6 Head toward evening 7 Have_ (be connected) 8 Quaint lodging 9 Mississippi's state tree 10 TV's" and 
Greg"­
11 Highly amusing 
12 Ohio tire center 
13 Living thing 
18 Mussorgsky's Godunov 22 Move like molasses 23 "_by the bell!" 24 Mountain ridge 25 Like a horror movie 26 Actor DeVito 
28 Diver's dread, with "the" 30 Ranking above species 32 Tennessee political family 33 Assailed on all sides 35 "Carmen" highlight 36 Hold one's ground 38 Vivacity 39 Attack like an eagle 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 G.l.'s lullaby? · 5 Forty-niner's 
filing 10 Visually dull 14 Mate's shout 15 Barbera's 
partner in cartooning 16 Go backpacking 17 Worrier's habit 19 Hillside shelter 20 Oscar winner Sophia 
21 Kramden's pal on "The Honeymooners" 
23 Hot and dry 26 Sending to one's fate 27 Language of the Koran 28 French novelist Honore de 
29 Salome's seven 30 Aladdin's enabler 31 Vladimir Putin's 
onetime org. 34 French 101 verb 35 Redhead's dye 36 Gin flavoring 37_Bingle 
(Crosby moniker) 38 Toss back and forth 39 Begins to flutter 
the eyelids 40 Shuttle plane 42 Jolson's river of 
song 43 Noted Parthenon 
sculptor 45 In the middle of 46 Small wound 47 Drink for 
Dracula 

------------------------------------------------------.. 
Irish toNITe 

Notre Dame makes its third lrip to Madison Square Garden for tonight's show­down with Penn State. 
PORTS 
pages 26 & 27 



page 32 OBSERVER Tuesday, March 28, 2000 
SOFTBALL 
Saint Mary's opens home season with pair of wins 
By KAREN SCHAfF 
Sports \X1riter 
The Saint Marv's softball team started the l1ome season off on the right foot with an 8­0 win over tl1P Concordia Cougars. With these wins the Belles hPt­tcred their Game 1 1·ecord to 
Saint Mary's 8

9-4. S a i n t Concordia O Mary's hosted a 
Game2

double header Saint Mary's 12 w i t h 
Concordia 1

Concordia !'or their home opener Monday. The Bcl!Ps came out looking strong in their first game. shutting out the Cougars 8-0. 
The Belles trounr.ed the Cougars in the sr.f'.ond game of lhe doub!P headPr. cruising to a12-1win. 
The Belles dominated offen­sivelv with Rachel Deer and Trish Klof'.kner blasting home­runs in the first inning. 
"We're coming out of our hitting slump," Klockner said. "And we're starting to gel together." 
The Belles defense then rame out in the top of the sec­ond and shut down the Cougars, three up and three down. 
"We were so fired up from the beginning and that boost­ed our emotions to play," Deer said. 
\1idway through the third inning the Brllrs had <Teated a substantial lead. 12•1. The Belles continued to play hard 
Concordia sufforcd from poor play. The Cougars had sevc>ral errors and gave up several runs due to walks. They did not lack the. cohesion the.Belles displayed during the game. 
"W'e looked stron~. and defensively we are as solid as any other team out. them," head rnad1 Dave Speybrcoef'.k said. 
Ile addrd that he has been moving his team around. try­ing to f'it each player to her position. 
"l like lo put my fastest girls in the oulfield so they can get to the ball." he said. 
This years team lacks expe­rience. Eight of 18 players are freshmen and there am no returning seniors. 
"Most oi' my f'reshnwn girls just need college experiPnce," Speybroeck said. "They arc all really good players, and we are just trying to find where they are best suited l'or right now. 
For Wednesday's game against Olivet College, Speybroeck wants to work on pitr,hing. 
lie noted that although bis pitchers have rhythm, their speed isn't quiet there yet. Kristin Martin and Anne Senger eaf'.h pitf'.hed against Concordia. 
see SOFTBALL/page 25 


BASEBALL 
Heilman pitches a gem in Notre Dame's 3,000th game 

photo courtesy of sports information 
The Notre Dame baseball team dons old Irish uniforms for its 3,000th game. The Irish were victorious on the road against the Wildcats. 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sports Writer 

In 1866, two students l'rom Marshalltown. Iowa -Sturgis and Adrian "Cap" Anson -introduced the game of' basPball to the studPnts at Notre Dame. For the next 20 years. the sport was played between teams of students on campus. Finally, during the 1891-92 school year, Notre Dame decided to make baseball a varsity sport. 108 ynars tater, thn Irish base· ball team played its 3,000th baseball game as All-American junior Aaron lleilman pitched a one-hit shutout to lead thr, Notre Dame past Villanova. 4·0. 
"I guess it was only fitting that in the 3.000th game in the history of Notre Dame baseball onr, of the great­est of them all was able to pitch a gem for us," current head coach Paul Mainieri said. "lie was very close to pitching a no-hitter. llad I positioned our center-fielder mrrer.tty. he proba­bly would have caught tlw one bloop single in his back pocket." 
Indeed Heilman. ranked as on<' ol' thP top two collegf' pitchPrs in America right now. is truly one of' the grr.atest athletes to step on the dia­mond for the Irish. llowpvrr in tlw preceding century. many other grrnt players have donned a cap with tlw "ND" logo. 
A century of greatness 

Perhaps one of tbr. most recogniz­able names in Notre Dame basPball history was nonr, other than its origi­nator. Cap Anson. Anson was orw of' tho original players in the old National Association. the old major league. IIf' went on to beconw the predominant figure in pre-20th century baseball. finishing a 27-ycar career as player­man ager of the Chicago White Stockings (now known as thr, Cubs) 
see BASEBALL/page 29 
Baseball at Texas 
ar Michig:rn Men's Golf rfj')
vs. Cenml Michigan Saturday, 1 p.m. 
Wednesday, 4 p.m. at Kentucky "'-::::>,)Today, 5:05 p.m. 
SPORTS ~ 
Friday
•vs. Penn State in New York •• Track and Field
ATA M Softball vs. Ohio State NIT semifinals vs. Eastern Michigan Sarurday, l0a.m. 
Saturday, 3 p.m.
1w;

Today, 9 p.m. Wednesday, 4 p.m. 
.... GLANCE • 





