
Where do you want to go today? 
Scene takes a look al NDloday.com, and the brains behind 3bStudios. 
Scene . page 14-15 

THE 
VOLXXXIII N0.117 

I hai1e asked to remain anonymous because, to this day, being raped still q[{ects me. In the beginning, people were mad at me and wanted to hurt me. I am still scared that somebody may retaliate against me lwccmse they do not believe me. I rnmwt take that risk; I hm•e already been hurt enough. 
..Emily" 
story by 
MICHELLE KRUPA 
• 
photos by 

JOHN DAILY 
Observer speaks on WAC Look inside for The Observer's editorial on the 5,'aint Mary's College decision to join the WRC. 
Viewpoint . page 12 
Friday 
APRIL 7, 2000 

HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
One in four women is raped or sexually assaulted before finishing college.* Forty-two percent ofvictims keep silent about the crime. 


Editor's Nole: "Emily" and "Kelly" are pseudonyms. 
On the shelf of a Universitv­issul' wardrobe, a white card­board box sits squashed between a navy nylon sleeping bag and a four-cup Mr. Coffee maker. Slrn1wd like an oversized cereal box, it arrived more than two yoai's ago at Farley Hall. a care­package for a froshman from her mom. /\n $8 postage sticker still dings to the box's top, but the worth of its present contents far excends the cash spent to ship cookiPs cross country. 
This box protects -artifacts of a two-yoar psychological war waged by Emily, a Notre Dame junior, and initiated by a violent battl<i or stnmgth and sexual vio­lation. The box holds evidence: a pair of black khaki pants and a bPige button-down shirt spotted with blood, tidily folded by the 5­foot-:-l, 120-pound woman who wore them on Oct. 12, 1997. It also preserves journals. letters, a statement to Student Affairs ­written recollections of a terrify­ing night. A book of case law summaries and highlighted legal pamphlets on victims' rights line the bottom of the package. 
One in four women might understand completely the con­tents of Emily's box because one­quarter of women are raped or sexually assaulted before finish­ing c·ollege, according to American Medical Association statistics. Of these crimes, 57 per­cent occur on dates. Twenty-five percent of men admit having behaved aggressively; 42 percent of victims tell no one about the crime. 
Emily's experience belongs in all these categories. 
It began, as she remembers. at Bridget McGuirP's Filling Station. a notorious hang-out for students lucky enough to hold IDs with altered birth dates or the driver's licenses of generous older friends. The dingy underage bar. convert­ed into a coffee shop after Indiana state cops busted more than 100 teens there in 1998, was hopping with glittered freshmen guzzling from 22-ounce Bud Light bottles on that Saturday night in the fall uf' 1997. After 2-1/2 hours of bouncing to Bruce Springsteen and DJ Kool, Emily noticed her friend Kelly's boyfriend stroll in with a friend at his sidP. ThP guys quickly filled up with lager. 
.lust after 2 a.m., when Bridget's employees flipped on the lights to expose dozens of recently mated couples and hun­dreds of empty brown glass bot-
From Notre Dame, this is 


ICTIM'S 
OICE 

tles, Emily, Kelly and the two guys boarded a cab at Corby and Eddy Streets. On the three-minute ride to Main Circle, roughly 10 students crammed into the station wagon taxi. Kelly and her man nestled somewhere in tlrn back; Emily and the other guy shared the passenger's seat in front. 
After a quick walk from the Circle, Emily, her friend and the two guys sneaked into a West Quad men's dorm after parietals. Hefore Kelly and her boozed date retreated to privacy, they asked Emily to help their incapable 
buddy to his third-floor double. She obliged. 
At around 3 in the morning, Emily took the guy to his room and waited nervously at the door for the moment to escape from a dorm on all-male lockdown. The man then rose, stripped to his boxers, flexed his arm muscles in the mirror and shoved a movie into the VCR. Emily remained near the door, planning how to leave the building without getting caught. She wondered if walking home alone so late at night put her in danger of being assaulted. 
Then, the man invited Emily to the Ioveseat and kissed her gen­tly. . 
Unsure of her surroundings, Emily immediately tried to evade his touch. She said no. Then ten­derness became force. The man pegged Emily with his 5-foot-9, 190-pound frame and wrestled off her pants. He raped her orally and vaginally and tried to rape her anally. Afraid he'd br,at her, Emily submitted. Too stunned to scream, she kept silent. 
see VICTIM/page 6 
'' .. 

INSIDE COLUMN 
A predator alllong us 
Four thousand. nine hundred and eight. 
Does this number mean anything to you? It should. This is the number of undergraduate women at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame whose safety is in jeop­ardy. But what, you may 
Colleen 
be asking, could warrant 
McCarthy
this threat'? On March 25, a male 
Associate
member of the Notre 
News Editor 
Dame community allegedly raped a fellow student in a residence hall. The victim has chosen not to press charges. and so the Office of Student Affairs will take no action to discipline the accused. I am disturbed and disgusted that this man will not be h,~ld responsible for his animalistic actions. He is a prerlator to ,wery woman on both campuses. and what bothers mc even more is thctt no one knows who he is. 
The next woman he takes to an SYH or meets at a bar and brings back to his room will not know that this person violated some­one lw knew in the most intimate wav. If he is not being held accountable for raping this student, will he realize that what he has done is wrong? If he could rape one woman, what will stop him from raping another? Nothing. 
It is time for the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame communities to open their eyes and realize that 68 percent of rape victims know their attackers. The reality is that we don't like to think about rape happening here. As a freshman, I thought I was surrounded by the good, upstanding people of Catholic institu­tions. l was naive, but the truth is that though we may not like to think so, the people we sit with in class or socialize with on weekends are capable of rape. 
There seems to be a stigma attached to acquaintance rape -that since it was some­one the victim knew rather than a strange man in a back alley that somehow the experi­ence is less horrific. I think the opposite is true. I find it even more animalistic that any­one could rape someone he knows. The stranger has no connection to you, but the acquaintance has held a conversation with you. He could be a fellow student. He could ;it next to you in class. Ile could be your lab partner or your date for Saturday night. 
As a community, we can no longer be silent. We should demand that Student Affairs cre­ate a policy to discipline rapists, even if the victim chooses not to press charges against her attacker. Protecting members of the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame community from being victimized and holding people account­able for their actions should be a priority. 
To the 4,908 undergraduate women on both campuses: Remember that rape is rape no matter who the perpetrator. We need to join together and let the administration know that we will not allow our safety to be compro­mised. 
To the rapist: Maybe you thought that she didn't mean it when she said "no." Perhaps you think that what you did isn't a big deal or that she'll get over it. If that's what you think. read the story oil the front page of today's Observer and think again. 
The tJiews expressed in the Inside Cufumn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Laura Perelle  Amanda Grecco  
Maribel Morey  Graphics  
Nicole Haddad  Jose Cuellar  
Sports  Production  
i,;.evin Berchou  Kerrv Smith  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Mary Margaret Nussbaum  Angela Campos  

Th, Ob..erver (USPS 599 2-4000) i, publi.,hcd MonJay chrough FriJar except t.iuring (:X:un and vacarion penod!<i. The Ob:i,,erver is a member of rhe As.,oc;:iated Press. All reproduction right.s arc re.'i;crvcd. 


THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
New literature course to address gay issues Wednesday, April 2, 1993 Despite consistent liniversily denial or rneognizing an om­cial organization for gays and lesbians on campus, "Outspoken Readings in Litt•rature," was offcrnd for the Fall 199:1 semester. "This is a university or academic free­dom. and that's what part of intellcr.iual growth among ihc 
students is all about," said Diane Murray, associate dean or the College ofArts and Letters. 
University suspends arrested students 
Thursday, April 8, 1976 Thrnc Notrn Danw studtmts were arrested for posses­sion and dcliv1~ry of drugs and were then suspender! from thP University, according to James RmimPr, dl'an of students. Sophli'morc Michael Kohlmiller, Senior Christopher Cannon and Junior Thomas Plynn facP
. 
charges of delivering marijuana a11d amphetamines to police agents. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Anti-abortion group cancels visit to Indiana U. 
BLOOMJNGTON, Ind. 
The Genocide Awart'Trnss Project, a pro-life organization sponsored by the Center for Bio-Ethical Reform, inde­finetly postponcd its visit to Indiana University after conflict with the administration regarding where its display would occur. 
The group said it will sue the uni­versity for denying it permission to demonstrate at the requested loca­tion. 
Dean of students Richard McKaig said because Dunn Meadow is IU's designatl'd frm~ speech area, the uni­versity could not approve the group's request to set up its display between Ballantine and Woodburn Halls. 
"(The university) approved the event for Dunn Meadow, which is our standard free speech area, and they had not agreed Dunn Meadow was an appropriate place because they felt it was out of the way," McKaig said. 

"They wanted to be closer to Woodburn and Ballantine, but thal's not a public forum, free speer:h area where we approve or displays, and so ·we said 'No, [and] that on our cam­pus. the assembly ground policy is 
Dunn Meadow."' 
Gregg Cunningham, executive 
dirnctor of the Center for Bio-Ethical 
Reform, said the Project requested the 
Woodburn area for display because 
not enough people walk through 
Dunn Meadow. 
Ile also said he believes restricting the Project from setting up lwtwep,n Ballantine and Woodburn is a viola­tion of the group's first amcndnrnnt rights. 
Cunningham said the Project has rntained counsel on the issue through both the Center for Bio-Ethical Heform and the Center for Law and Policy, a public interest civil liberties firm and intends to sue IU in order to allow their display in tlw Woodburn area. 
"We're going to force this universi­ty, under judicial rnv4ew, to clarify its first amendment policy or to adopt a policy that's constitutional or apply their policy in a constitutional way," Cunningham said. 
Associate university counsel Kiply Drew said U.S. Supreme Court prece­d1111t allows the Univc1rsity to make rmtsonable restrictions on speech. 
Penn State students question opposite-sex living 
UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa. 
Haverford College decided last week to open its on­campus apartment-style housing to students who want to room with the opposite sex, a move that Pennsylvania State University housing officials don't plan to copy in the near future. Fred Fotis, director of Residence Lifi~. said the issue is complicated and while it can't be ruled out completely for future Penn State studenl<;, the prob­lems for any state institution are different than those of private colhiges. 'Tm sure that some people~ would have a negative response if any state institution -not just Penn State -would do this," Fotis said. Monev could be in danger if legislators, private contributors, parents or even student.<; opposnd the idea of allowing students to sham rooms with the opposito sex, Fotis said. Tho option at llaverford College, a small private school near Philadelphia, will be offered during an experimental period in Fall Semester 2000. Requests from gay and lesbian students, who said thev often fnlt uncomfortable sharing rooms with members· of the same sex, helpnd inspire the policy. 


LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWcatherO\lforecast for<laytime conditions .and high temperature:-. 
H  L  
Friday  ~  50  38  
Saturday  Q  42  29  
Sunday  ~  49  35  
'  
Monday  Q'""",,,  53  37  
Tuesday  ~ ' ' '  50. 33  
•, ..').-.•"'  
·,j;~>'\I'\.  

~9~uu~ (f f?Y1. u 
._ ,'-.. ,'", '-. ,... , .-..._:. +.;~f·.t· ~--=---:... 
Showers Tastorms Rafn Au"ies Snow Ice Sunny Pl Cloudy Cloudy Via A~ociated Press Gr.aph,csNet 
Versity.com to test program at U. Michigan 
ANN AHBOH, Mich. 

Versity.corn will test new notes program at U. Michigan. Hr.cent controversy surrounding the note-tak­ing service Versity.com has focused on the lack of profes­sor pormission given to thP paid notetakers, but Versity's new Pilot Program requires professor notification beforn the notns hit thn web. Versity On-Campus market repre­sentative Daniel Wolf' said the University of Michigan is the pilot school for the program. Wolf said the quality of notns increases when stud~mts and professors are rnorP awam of the websill\'s impact. The professors can 1wen olfer up some or their top students for notetaking and check their notes to assure quality, he said. University facultv hav,~ mixed reactions to commercial notPtakers. Polith:al scirn1ce profossor Douglas Lemke allows GradP A Notns to bl! provided for his students. Ile wants studPnts to be abln to catch up if thny miss dass but said Im thinks that it's not good !'or students to depend on il. "It's an added supplement for classes, it is not meant as a way not to gq to class but a plac<! to go and clwck nut notes to add to yours," Wolf said. 

NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather" forecast for noon, Friday, Apr. 7. 
40s Lines separa!e high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
..........
.......... .......... 


© 2000 AceuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
@"""'e0 D CJ D Gill . EJ <> 
High Uiw Shi:rwer• Attll'I T-storma Flurrles $now Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Vr./3 AssocJated Prnss 
Atlanta 77 58 Las Vegas 85 59 Portland 70 46 Baltimore 64 50 Memphis 72 49 Sacramento 78 51 Boston 60 46 Miami 82 72 St Louis 71 58 Chicago 48 29 New Yor1< 60 50 Tampa 80 62 Houston 80 53 Philadelphia 65 49 Wash DC 69 52 
Friday. April 7, 2000 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Rapagnani: Legality, bandwidth concerns in Napster ban 
Ry KI FLIN TURNER 
~l'W5 \X'rii~•1 
Th<' dP!'ision to put tlw t·om­pul.-r program Napswr on moratorium is causing an ongo­ing ronlrovl'rsy at univt'rsitins­all across tlw t·o11ntrv. Napsu·r is an applica­tion that allows its us1•rs lo· sham mp] l'ilPS i11 ii uniqtH' 111P­

Rapagnani
sh11ring sys­tnm. 
"I ha\'P a rommiltPP that ad,·isl's 11w on rompul1·r infor­mation lf'drnology polici1is and pro1·Pdt1rPs on campus -eom­pri!>Pd of studPnts, faculty and slafT m,•mlwrs," said l.arrv Hapagnani. assistant provost ,ir Information T1•ehnolo-git>s, who PmphasizPd that ii was not his derision lo block Nupstl~r. 
"Th1•rp 1u·1· a c·oupk of rna­sons [why tlw University c!Pcid­,•d to block Napstnl -one is a sc•ruritv issue that we do not totally 1inderstand. tlw socond is a bai;dwidth ulilizalion issue, or anything associatNI with acrcss­ing nl'lwork informalion. and lastly. we can't prove anything, but trading in Napster spac<' is typically trading music files, or mp3 lil!!s, that because of our past history with mp3s here on campus and other campuses n•ally dPals with illegally copied music," Hapagnani said. 
Nupstf'r users are able lo "opy 
and download files from the 
hard drives of other Napster 
users. 
"Wt\ do not know that for a 
fact. but it is highly suspect that 
Napsll'I' was put up for the free 
and 1iasy exdrnnge of mp3 
l'i!Ps," said Hapagnani. Tho 
n,~cord Industry Association of 
Anwrica has notified t!rn 
close to finals and the intensity of research tends to go up quite a bit," said Hapagnani. 
The actions of the University wern taknn at a crucial time in which students will need DAHT information for fall rngistration, as well as research information to help prepare for finals. 
"We need to make sure therti are resources available for you to get enrolled. if you need to do rnirnarch -we need to make sun! you have the capatity and thn tools available to do that. We do not want some othnr use to impede that," said Hapagnani. Abovn all, Hapagnani statPd tliat the ac:acl­omic mission of the University cleu.rly outweighs the effects of p!u.cing Napster on moratorium. 
"Obviously our intent is not censorship. \,Vn are an academ­ic institution and we nc~cd to fos­ter ,~xploration and dialoguo and counter viewpoints. But tlrn primary mission of course, is our academic mission," Hapagnani said. While Hapagnani docs not endorse a long-term ban or censorship of presently was a well-planned and thought-out decision, according to Rapagnani, who clainrnd that a gr<rnt dnal of organization and planing must tak11 place tu implnrnent futurn applications, designing a nnt­work. and upgrading to acquirP more bandwidth 
"What you nePd to do is takfi a more holistic approach, so it is just not like nipping a switch and you get more bandwidth ­it is not quite that easy. You have to design thost1 things and that takes limn... sa irl Hapagnani. 
Every school in Anrnrica is wrestling with how to deal with Napster, llapagnani said. 
"We are not intent on putting Napstnr out of business; we arP more interested in understand­ing how wri haw a relationship with this entity and how we can still provide you access for exploration purposes to do whatever you want couched within the ethical confines that hopefully you arc operating within, and still allow you to do · the Lhings reasonable 
Univnrsity that people on cam­pus. primarily students, have thesr. lilDs, infringing on copy­right policies. 
"Wn did not want rnallv l'rivo­lous us,1 of tlrn lnumiel t;> g0t in the way of doing real business bnrausf' we design and build 
Raµagnani helped to establish Iles Net on campus in 1997, an intra-rnsidencc campus network system that allows students accnss to thrJ lnlf'rnrt 700 times !'aster than a telephone Jim~ and modmn. 
"Wp, are entirely hopnful that 
infrastructure to takP can• nf' tlH' businPss "We can't prove
ll(Wds on cam­
anything. but trading
pus, said 
in Napster space is 
Hapagnani. 
I' h (' typically trading" H(' s p o n s ib I l' 
music.files, or mp3 jiles,
Usu of' 
lhal because ofonr past
Inform at.ion TnchnolDgies" history with mpJs do1:u11wnt pro­
here on campus
ducPd by tlw 
and other campuses
Office of 
Information really deals with 
Tnchnologil's 
illegally copied music." 
indudes in its doc-ument that som<' non­Larry Rapagnani 
com m n rc i al assistant provost usps arn per­
of Information Technologies
mitted by lhr~ faculty. staff, and students, if wn build this inf'rastr11c­turn so that you can use ResNfit and 
you are advancing your int()l­1 f' c t u a I knowlmlge," s a i d Hapagnani. Hapagnani is well aware, however, that HesNN is not USf\d for purnly academic 
purposes. 
"Wn also 
know that you explore, which is 
limy are not P.Xcesslve, do not interfere with the performance of any faculty, staff member, or studnnt duties. do not interfere with the P:1'!1cient opPration of the University or its computing resrltlrces." 
"We recognize that frivolous use goes on. Frivolous use in and by itself is not a problem," said Rapagnani. The problem is, he said, exists when this use consumes 40 percent of avail­able bandwidth. Rapagnani stated that traffic is highest when students in the residence halls tend to use the network ­from 10 p.m. to 2:30 a.m. 
"We still want to afford you the opportunity to do the explo­ration, and sometimes those things conflict with one another, especially when one over­whelms the other," Rapagnani said. 
great -we just rrned lo couch the exploration part in some sort of parameter spaco such that you still value an ethical set or principles that govern your behavior." he said. "We are here to get you guys an educa­tion -that is what we want, that is what we are about and we want you to enjoy your expe­rience in doing so." 
Bandwidth utilization abilities are significantly diminished when Napster is in use, making it much more difficult for stu­dents, facultv and staff to access pertinent information. 
"Fetching resources off the Internet could take longer; in fact, in some cases it can be blocked out entirely," said lfapagnani. 
"We are trying to generate more bandwidth for things like Di\llTing -plus we are getting 
Napstcr. he "Fetching resources off students believes that a will want to
the Internet could take
short-term do," said 
moratorium longer; infact, in some Hapagnani. 
makes sense cases it can be blocked The time and will expe­spent over
out entirely."
dite the com­the summer munication of organizing academic infor­Larry Rapagnani and upgrad­mation. ing will give
assistant provost
"We do not t h e
of Information Technologies
want to get into the censorship business -that is not our strong-suit, in fact it is counter­cultural to being an institution of higher education," Rapagnani said. 
While Rapagnani is unsure of the measures that will be taken in the future with regulating the use of Napster, he is confident that in the fall things will be dif­ferent. 
"We are planning network upgrades this summer while you all are gone to enhance that capacity of our on-campus net­work." Hapagnani said. 
The decision to block Napster 
University 
time to 
review 

plausible options that will hopefully estab­lish a more comprehensive rela­tionship with Napster. 
"We just want to take some time to study it and do what is effective for Notre Dame and do what is right for you." Rapagnani said. Napster has recently received attacks from the RIAA. but since the rnp:1 files do not reside on the Napster server, and Napster does not charge fees for its ser­vices, Napster claims that tlw complaints have no applicable legal grounds. 

NEED: LEADERS FOR 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 

TASK FORCE 
The Appalachia Seminar is currently seeking members to join the Appalachia Task Force for the 2000-2001 school year. The Task Force consists of eight undergraduate students who form a leadership team responsible for planning, implementing, and creating new opportunities within the Appalachia Seminar. The Task Force is dedi­cated to experiential learning as a means to enhance higher education. We are in need of interested, enthusiastic, and committed persons to join us. 
If you have participated in the Appalachia Seminar, please consider applying to the Appalachia Task Force. 
APPLICATIONS: Now available at the Center for Social Concerns 
Applications are due: Monday, April 10, 2000 
For further information: 
Rose Domingo, Task Force Chairperson, 4-3960 
Rachel Tomas Morgan, Seminar Director, 1-5293 

Aoor Hot~e~ •Vo\\e~ba\\ Tab\e Tennis • 'Poo\ 

1--5323 


Speaker of the House to lecture Saturday 
Sped.I w rhe 06.srrvcr 
Speaker of the llouse Dennis Hastert will deliver the University of Notre Dame's C. Robert Hanley Lt>cture Saturday [Apr. 8] al 230 p.m. in the auditorium of the llesburgh (enter for International Studies on cam­pus. The topic of the address will be ''.The 106th Congress: A Report from the Speaker." 
Elected Sp!'a hr of the House in January 1999, Hastert represents Illinois' 14th Congressional District west of Chicago -a suburban area of high tech firms, small and large industrial complexes and farmland. Pirst elected to the House of Representatives in 1986, he previously had taught government and histo­ry for 16 years at Yorkville High School in northern Illinois. 
Prior to his election as 
Speaker. Hastert served as 
Chief Ueputy Majority Whip. 
He also served as chairman of 
the House Government Reform 
and Oversight Committee's 
National Security, 
International Affairs and 
Criminal Justice 
Subcommittee. The subcom­
mittee had broad oversight 
responsibilities for the 
Departments of State, Defense 
and Justice; it also oversaw 
the nation's War on Drugs 
effort. He also served as a 
member of thP House 
Commerce Committee, whose 
jurisdiction includes energy 
policy. interstate and foreign commerce. broadcast and .telecommunications policy, food, health and drug issues. 
1-lastert has been the House Republican point person on health care reform since 1992. In that capacity, he served as the only Bouse Republican on llillarv Clinton's Health Carn Task ·Force in l993, then chaired the Speaker's Steering Committee on Health and Urn Resourcl. Group on llealth. lie helped author the health care reform bill signed into law by President Clinton in 1996 to expand health care coverage to the uninsured. 
Also during his years in Congress, Hastert has champi­oned legislation to rf'form the federal budget prncess, bal­ance the budget and cut gnv­ernment waste. He also led a nationwide fight to repeal the Social Security earnings test levied on senior citizens. Ile worked on and passed legisla­tion to reduce government regulations in areas such as telecommunications and trucking. 
Prior to his election Lo 
Congress. Hastert served three 
terms in the Illinois General 
Assembly, where he spnar­
hcaded legislation on child 
abuse prevention, property tax 
reform, educational excellcnco 
and economic d1welopment. 
Hastert is a 1964 graduate of 
Wheaton College and earned 
his master's degree from 
Northern Illinois University at 
DeKalb 
R6CYCL6 Tt-16 OBStSRVER 
TOUR GUIDE 



APPLICATIONS 
The Admissions Office will be hiring 6 new tour guides for the '00-'01 academic year. 
Applications are available at Room 220 Main Building 8 am-5 pm M-F or by e-mail at Joyce.2@nd.edu 
Deadline for applying: April 21st 


LectuRe notes . exam PreparAtion . novel notes (Among otHer crowo pLeasinG acaoe-mic rools) 
-always (1440.365) oPen-
Where to go when you need to know~ 

<


orld 
I II 

foday, April 7, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
U.N. to help find missing 
Kuwaitis from Gulf War 
KUWAIT 
i\ u.N. c .fficial listnnnd Thursday to tearful accounts f'rom r<'lativns of' Kuwaitis missing sinu: Iraq invad<'d Lhis small Gui/' staLc in 1990. and promis11d to hPlp find out what happr1wd to tlwir lm·Pd ones. Hotircd Hussian ambassador Yuli Vorontsov was appointed in FC>bruary by U.N. SPcretary-Go,wral Kofi Annan to make a rresh attempt at convincing Iraq to account /'or 605 peoplH who <lisap­pParnd during its scvPn-month ocn,pation of Kuwait. Vorontsov arrived Wednesday on his lirst visit to Kuwait. Thursday, ho listened to p<'opln like /\hnl al-Thafiri. who said lw hasn't !ward l'rom his son r:ahd sim:n he was arrPst.l'd Oct. (,, I990 while trying to nnter Ku\\'ail from Saudi .'\rabia. 
World Health Organization: Access to safe blood needed 
GENEVA 
\Ion• than hall' of tlw world's countriPs fail to pPrfnrm full tests on donated blood, irHTPasing llw risk of spreading AIDS and otlwr dis<>ascs, llw World l!Palth Organization said Friday. From :i to IO pcrcPnt of' pPople with tlw ,\IDS virus arP estimated to bP infoct­Pd via blood transfusions, said Yasuhiro Suzuki. dirnclor of' Wll(fs lrnalth t(ichnologies division. "Hcliable and safe blood supply is still out of roach for untold millions of pPople around Uw world," WIIO Dirnctor-General (;ro Harlem Brundtland said in a statement marking World Ilealth Day on Friday. Shp, blamed a "lack or commitment and support on llw parl of many govcrmnPnts." Annually, mrll'c than I:{ million units (pints; of blood ­almost orw-l'ifth of tlw world's annual con­sumption -not t(istcd for all infections that could bt! transmiltNl by transfusions, WIIO said. 
Jamaica to limit water supply 
KINGSTON 
The .Jamaican government announced Thursday it will shut off water supply in some arpas for several hour~ pl)r day in response to a 4-month-old drought in Urn Caribbean nation. The governmPnt's National Water Commission will b(\gin "locking-off" the water supply to parts of Kingston for as long as eight hours a day starting Tu0.sday, with other parts of the country to follow, Water Minist(lr Karl Blythe said. "WP may find it necessary to decrease [the watPr supply) to. say, a lower number of hours pm day. maylw 16 hours in the first instance," Blythe said. Water lcvds at the two reservoirs snrving Kingston, the Jamaican capital. have grown dangprously low. 
Wift,ti.ftliitf/iJMUW
Dow AMEx: 
979,80 
}ONES ~2rn9 
Nasdaq:
+80.35 
-1267.56 
D 
-t-9iU4 
NYSE: 
658.79 
·8.2(, 
S&P 500: Co1111iosile 1501.3-1 
Volume:
11114.27 1,00/i,O16,:18-1
· 13.'17 
VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY TICKER •CKA.NG!: PFI.IC!:
' CH.ANG!!: 
MCI WOJ'ILDCON IN WCOM -J.,00 -1, 3.125 42,50 C'19~0 SYS'i'l:MS csco -0.U -0 .1 l 'SO ?1. 81 .OEI.E, COMPUTER O::S:LJ'.,, -,. 38 -:ii:,3619 51.56 MICROSOFT COP.P MS11"I -{L43 •0,lHO 86.00 OAACLE CORP O:R.t:t -i. 5 .Ci •1,9'00 e:2. 19 NASDAQ 100 61-f,.R '100 +2 .S"7 +a. 11.so 103, 00 '?ELL.US me TLA8 -4,. 72 -2. 6800 58.1:iil YAHOO me YHOO -6 .913 -11.56.25 154.. 00 COMPAO COMPUT!;R CPQ +'!. 410 . 1. 5050 2!f. ]8 U,lT'SL COllP !HTC -o.os -0.0!iSO 12lil.8l 
RUSSIA 

strengthening ties with the EU and ing with a Western leader was with Associated Press 
pay less attention to the United States, British Prime Minister Tony Blair in ~oscow analysts say. March. 
With Russia's relationship with the llis strategy, however, could be Two weeks later, he called Blair by United States souring, President hampered by growing European criti­his first name during a televised Vladimir Putin is trying to edge closer cism of the war in Chechnya. On phone call to congratulate Putin on his to the European Union-and use its Thursday, Council of Europe delegates March 26 election victory. growing international clout to offset recommended suspending Russia And Europe has responded to his Washington. from the human rights body unless it approaches. The European 
Boris Yeltsin. Putin's predecessor, moves to end the conflict. Commission said in a congratulatory made much of his backslapping, first­Putin has made clear he sees message that it looked forward to name "Bill and Boris" relationship Russia's future as lying with Europe. renewing its partnership with Russia. with President Clinton -which paid "Russia is a part of European cul­Two top EU officials were to begin off in U.S.-supported loans and other ture. I simply cannot see my country talks Friday in Moscow on preparing aid. isolated from Europe, from what we for a May EU-Russia summit. 
But ties with the United States have often describe as the civilized world," Moscow's feelers are prompted by frayed in recent years over issues such he said in March. fears that the impoverished and mili­as the U.S.-led bombing of Yugoslavia Since taking power. Putin has gone tarily weakened Russia will be shut and U.S. allegations of Russian gov­out of his way to court European gov­out of decisions on war, peace and ernment corruption, ernments, while having few contacts trade on tlrn continent by growing 
Now Putin is likely to focus on with the United States, I!is first meet-European integration. 
IRAQ 
U.S.-British bombing kills 14 in no-fly zone 
casualiies. At U.S. Contrr Command norihorn and southrrn 
Associated Press 
Tho official Iraqi news in Tampa. Fla., Iraq. On Tuesday, authori­
BAGIIDAD 
agency's report, which spokesman Lt. Col. Hick ties reported that strikes 
U.S. and British war­
cited an unidtinlilied Iraqi Thomas said the strikes trnd killed two people and 
planes struck targets in 
Air Defense spokesman, woro aimed at Iraqi mili­injured two in the south. southern Iraq on did not specify the nature tary targets. Iraq docs not recognizeThursday, and tlrn Iraqi of targets hit or their "They fired at us today. Lhc no-fly zones set up
military said they hit resi­
exact location, but said We struck in response to artHr the 1991 Gulf' War to dcn ti ul areas, killing 14 the jrts new over six that," Thomas said, provide aerial protectioncivilians and injuring 19. 
provincris in Lhe southern adding that U.S. pilots from governmnnt forcf)SThe U.S. military con­
no-fly zonn. attempt a~ a rule to mini­for Shiite Muslims in the firmed that planes carried 
"The American and m izc the risk of civilian south and Kurds in tlrn out strikes, but said they British criminals added casualties. 
north. Ii began challtrng­were against military tar­another crime to their The number of deaths ing the patrols in 
gets in response to attacks 
barbaric acts ... when reported in the striklls was December 1~)98. and allied by Iraqi anti-aircraft 
their ravens bombed resi­the highest since Aug. 17, forces ol'ten have respond­artillery. A spokesman 
don li al areas and civil when Iraq said 19 civilians ed by firing on Iraqi anti­said there was no immerli­
installations," the agency were killed and l I wern aircraft and radar instal­ate indication of Iraqi 
said. injured during attacks in lations. 

. 
VictiID 
continued from page l 
"I was dislocated from my body," Emily says. "I can picture the things happening. I couldn't have handled it, so while ht1 was rapin),{ me, I had to treat it like I wasn't even there." 
He ordered Emily -now a holloV\ puppc~t -to move to the bed. There, he raped her again. And when he rolled ovt>r on llw twin-extra-lung mattress, she rl'ad the digital dork -6:12. At 8 
a.m.. she awoke to another series of rape. And at I0. when he finally fin­ished. he sat on the edge of the hcd, watched Emily dress herself and instructed her not to tell anyone about the night's events: He didn't want his girlfrit•nd to know. 
Through the hall and rlown lht~ stairs. Emily t1ew out of the dorm. She took tlw long ·way home to f\iorth Quad -behind Welsh Familv Hall, across the Cirri<' toward f'itzp.atrick, past the hanging garden un the De8artolo quad, left toward O'Shaughuessy, past Hiley, arouud Stepan Chemistry, by Stonehenge, to the ser.ond floor of Farley. Emily avoided the cent.er of cam­pus because Basilica services were in progrnss. She didn't want Sunday Mass­goers to sew hPr They were good pcopli,, and Lhny would know she was a slut. 
I lf'r next move initiated Emily as a bad rape victim, she says. After balling up her shirt and khakis, Emily took a long. long shower, destroying physical nvi­dence ol' sexual assault. For nearly five days, she pretended the rape didn't hap­pen. She told her roommates she'd spent Saturday night in Kelly's mom. She told Kelly she'd crashed on the guy's couch. 
Like a typical rape victim, Emily avoid­ed the truth, escaping to a corner of the world safer and calmer than her own life. Dr. Miguel rranco of Notre Dame's Counseling Center says Emily exhibited, in textbook fashion, symptoms of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder from the moment she left her alleged rapist's room. A victim of trauma, Emily experi­enced something sudden, threatening and overwhelming. An unexpected dan­ger struck her physically and emotional­ly, and there was nothing she could do to stop it. Like any trauma victim, Emily retreated Lo a safe place. and she removed physical traces of the incident, washing them down the drain. 
She suppressed memories, one of two psychological paLhs traversed by victims. "Part of you wants to figure out what happened, which gives you intrusive thoughts, which only makes you relive the traumatic experience," Franco explains, "versus part of you wants to avoid the situation, so you don't go out­doors or wear clothes that make you think ol' the incident. et cetera." Por a week, Emily was better at avoiding. 
The Thursday night after the rape ­two davs before fall vacation -Emilv went again. to Bridget's. Drinking and dancing, she wallowed in a world of denial built from pretense and dismissal. Soon. though, Emily was crying; her friend Vince Tricomi escorted her out­side to a concrete parking curb facing a busy intersection just south of thi, bar. 
"She was upset. It was so visible. She was so torn up thaL the bouncer thought I was assaulting her," Vince remembers. Between sobs, Emily choked out some details of' the rape and shook uncontrol­lably. Immediately, Vince volunteered to transform his instant anger into violence -to d(ial with Emily's rapist without involving tlw authorities. But E111ily swiftlv def'latc>d that schPme. so VincP refocusod. Ilo drnw up a mental check­list: calm lrnr down, do su111etlti11g, say something, anything. 
"Sbc was bawling and shaking. I want­ed to hug her. and I thought that might be wrong. It was just such a delicate thing," says Vince, a freshman that October night outside Bridget's. Vince> adopted a slogan -"It's not your faull." He'd heard somewhern that it was a simple phrase important to victims, For 40 minutes he repeated it. Ile held Emily as she cried and directed night-clubhers to search for taxis on another corner. 
Vince promised to keep Emily's secrrit. but af'ler October break, he told his Fisher Hall RA about the rape; Vince wantPd lo lwlp but. ner~cled advinJ. Thi" men concurred that Emily should take pregnancy, STD and AIDS tests. Eighteen-year-old Emily heeded their suggestion and went alone to South Bend's city/county facility. 
"The whole time -all of fall break ­I thought I wa.s pregnant," Emily says. "I figured out when I was due. l knew I scarod to go outside because I thought I would see him. I couldn't sleep by myself -I slept with a friend on a fold-away couch. l was hyper-vigilant about. my friends: I didn't want them to go out because l thought it would happen to 
them." 
Emily's room
"When I came back from 
wouldn't go through mates rneognized with an abortion; I fall break. I wanted to die. this extreme alert­don't believe in that. I didn't want to kill myself, ness. One Friday 
But what was I night soon after the
but I secretly hoped I had
going to do with this rape, she and six baby from rape?" AIDS so I would die.,, friends had trekked All Emily's test the rocky path results were nega­between Vaness
Emily
tive, but the fnish­rnan still helinvcd she could have IIIV. "When I came lmck from fall break. I wanted to die. I didn't want to kill myself, but I sncrntly hoped I had AIDS so I would die." 
As the fall days dragged on, memo­ries of rape teemed in Emily's mind, crowding out frim1dship. studies. pcopln, feelings. She ate> little and slept a lot. She returned to thn city hcalLh depart­mm1t every thren months for STD tPsts. She thought it was lwr f'ault "l was so numb that I literally could no!. f'cel wlrnre somebody touched me. I was 
Street and Junipnr 
Hoad -tho route lrntwncn Turtle Crnnk .\parlmnnls and campus, heavily trafficked on weekend nights. With Loftus to tlrn right and a practice lmscball diamond to tlrn l<)fl, the group paused on the dim trail so a girl eould usr tho bushes bi,hind tennis courts as a makeshift bathroom. A mah1 fricmd accompanied IH1r to ko<'p a look­out. 
"limily wunt nuts," says Sarah Springor, one of' Emily's thre<' l'rPsl1111an­year roommales, who was al the scene. "Sho was screaming. She kept saying, 'Keep talking to me. Don't !!'top talking to me.' She really thought something would happen to her. Then Emily turned to me and said, 'Last weekend I got raped.' And I was stunned." 
!•or tho rest of the first semester of their freshman year, Sarah and another roommate lived for Emily. They traded sleep for trips to the Grotto and studying for cradling a sobbing friend. Tlrny sup­ported Emily's silence but urged her lo report. the crime to Student Affairs. These romnmates watched, without sup­port or advice from professional coun­selors, as clr<~ams jolted their f'riend of' just three months from her sleep. 
"She would wake up and cry bocause sh<~ wasn't a virgin anymore. She would have nightmares that she couldn't wnar a whit.o drnss at her wedding," Sarah says. "llallowtwn was ridiculous. WP went to a party in Alumni !llall!, and Emily did I:1 shots that night. But llrn smell of alcohol would bring it back !'or her. Sim would go up to peopl11 and tnll them slw got raped ... She ended up <Ty­ing herselrto sloop." 
Iimily slaynd at Notre Dame, dPspitn constant fear that shr'cl sen hur allngod attacker in llw dining hall or on tlw way class. Just as she agonizPd over h(•r friPnds' fat(' as tlrny w<•nt on datPs or to bars, slin worric~d about ,.vonrnn who met him dnilv, wonrnn oblivious to his violPnl past. ·That unp!lrcoivnd dangPr looming oven-Notrn Dame students final­ly motivat<)d Fmily to takn lwr casP Lo Hesidcncc Lifo. Before Thanksgiving, slw · composed a six-page, single-spacnd rnc­oll<•ction of thn narly morning of' Oct. 12, 1997. On Dec. 11, she met her allngocl assaulter f'acn-to-facc. 
!\ Studcrnt Affairs lrnaring is not likP court. No judgn presides, no lawy<Jrs argun, nobody takes an oath. F(•c!Pral law keeps statc)ments given insidci muet­ing rooms conl'idential. Victims and defondants can bring student advoecttns: friends, studnnt government voluntenrs, HAs. Parents, rectors and other adults rarely advocate, and in most cases, their direct involvmnent is discouraged. In the end, a pannl of three Residence Life administrators reviews evidnnce. statn­ments and witness accounts. It dncides whether to discipline the accused. 
In sexual assault cases, victims drive the process. They can contact Student Affairs anonymously, drop a case at any time or dnmand a hearing no mattnr how little nvidencn exists. Unlik<' in othnr hearings, sexual assaulL victims learn the panel's decision and the fatn of the accused, whatever that might be. 
Emily's hearing took place on the fifth lloor of Grace llall, Student Affairs' tnm­porary home during Main Building reno­vation. Emily chose Tiana Clrnccia. a freshman in lrnr section, as lrnr student advocate. On the morning of tlw !war­ing, about a dozen section matns joined Emily and her mom. who'd f'lown to South lfond to support her daughter. for brc\akfast. 
"As wn wnrn heading down Llw ramp lof North Dining llalll, !tlw guy who allegedly raped Emily! and lhis room­mate! wnrn walking toward Grace," recalls Sarah. "You could just snc her getting all sick to hnr stomach, and nvnryonejust reached out to grab lwr." 
That nausnaling nncounter actually broke sorno of tlrn day's tension, nxplains Tiana. "Thn initiai 'scning him' was over." Emily and Tiana walknd alone lo Graen llall, and a short, anxious wait in a sitting area i,nded as the women, Emily's accused rapist. his rnr­tor. three Hesidcnco Life officials and Fmilv's assistant rector ontornd a ster­ilc-l<;oking conl'1irencc room. Emily sat two scats away from h11r allng<\d attack­m· on tho sanw sidn of the table. 
l•:mily was composed. Sh<) spokn cloar­ly as slrn oxplained llnr terror on thP night of' Llw rape. "I le was much biggnr than me. lie was strong. I had tears stroarning down my face tho enlirn limn. I couldn't think logically," Tiana r<icalls Emily saying. Thrin tlw defendant spokP, fumbling over his words. Tiana rnmcm­bers his statement: "She said no, and I 
just. thought she didn't mran it." 
Emily and her advocate didn't hav<) to stay !'or the whole hoaring. Thny ldl tlw conf'crenc<i after the defendant finislwd his statement. Dignified and strong, Emily mnt her friends and mom in Farley after the hearing. Latcr that night, she cri~)d Lo Tiana. She bnlinved the Student Affairs process might lw a 

page 7

long shot. that her rapist might be mere­ly admonislrnd. 
Exactly three months aft!-lr the report­ed rap11, Emily mcl with a Student Affairs administrator: Her assaulter would be dismissed from Notre Dame in accordancf-l wilh du Lac, the student handbook. lie would be forbidden frnm campus grounds. The conversation hap­pened just days after Emily had glanced across a DeBartolo lecture hall and spot­ted lwr alleged rapist preparing to take philosophy notes. lfe glared at her. She lost lwr voice. Slw lrncamn nauseated. Slw IPl'l class. 
SincP slrn was raped, Emily has over­hpard lwr story distorted by strangers. Sh1i assumes hnr alleged assaulter con· coctecl tales to nxplain his expulsion or the fall night he spent locked in his room. Thos!-1 rumors, Emily says, multi­ply and fly. "I got ealled cv;ffything. Tlwy said I was a slut. a good Catholic girl with rngrPts. They said my dad was a riclr lawyer and that's how I got out of' it. My 1110111 and dad own a produce busirwss. I didn't ask for this." 
Without physical evidence, police 
reports or a logally other people or to right this situation. I was so disappointed. They make this out to be the Notre Dame family, that you can trust everybody, that everybody cares about you. Everybody here is not perfect. !here's a lot of bad things going on here. 
In fact, after supporting a handful of other rape and sexual assault victims through the disciplinary process, Emily believes Student Affairs might not be the best avenue to justice. While she believes her attacker's confession gave administrators ample rt>ason to expel a dangerous man from campus ·and that her hearing was fair, she is not sure the panel is qualified to make judgments wlrnn evidence or a confession am unavailable. 
Emily believes defendants' crimes have gone unpunished by Student Affairs in several cases she's seen since her own. "Student Affairs is totally sub­jective. There's usually no physical evi­dence, and it's choosing one person's word over another's. Maybe lrape] is something th!'! University shouldn't touch. The University portrays [the hearing] as a con­flict-res o Iu ti on 

binding admission 
'They make this out to be the 
session, a counsel­
by tho accusnd 
rapist, Emily has Notre Dame family, that you can ing-type thing. This is a felony,
nearly dismissed trust everybody, that everybody 
for God's sake.
tlrn idea of' press­
cares about you. Everybody here 
The University is
ing civil or crimi­
is not perfect. There's a lot of in way over their
nal charges. No 
head."
prosecutor would bad things going on here." 
Dr. Franco says
pick up her case 
rape victims carry
aftN 2-1/2 years, 
Emily emotional, psycho­
she's convinced. 
But tlH' desirn to inform and protect other women has driven Emily t.o become a rape advocate at Notr•p Danw. Sim speaks with relative anonymitv to crowds of students at Frnsl; man Orie ntalion. SIm, Sarah. Tiana, Vince and anotlwr friend have madn an informational video for the University. /\nd through her work at the Couns<'ling Cnnter. sho's met a doz!-ln wonwn who, like lrnrself, foll vir,tim to acquaintance rap(i at Notre Dame. 
"I wouldn't feel right if I left this place without doing something to try to help 
logical and some­times physical scars for their entire lives. Those who seek emergency med­ical attention after rape face a humiliat­ing investigation as doctors and officers photograph genitalia, swab semen from inside the vagina and take samples of pubic hair. The few victims who take their accused rapists to court suffer a public, airing of private horrors and often are victimiwd again. as defense attorneys attempt to undermine women's credibility. Overall, those who survive rape must edit their world view, explains Franco. They must understand that bad things happen to good people. That justice doesn't always prevail. 
Emily's friends believe she is so strong. As they lived every hellish moment beside her, her roommates thought they would succumb to rape's oppressive atmosphere. Barely able to face their own fears about rape, they cannot l'athom how Emily survived. Rut she did. 
"She's come so far with this so quickly. She tries to use it as a tool to help other people," Sarah says. "She was cute litlle Emily, very outgoing, very trusting of people. Even after all this, she is so understanding, so forgiving. This hap­pened to Emily for a reason; because I know other people, and they couldn't have handled it. I couldn't have handled it." 
Emily's box sits unsuspectingly on the shelf above black formal dresses and worn running shoes, She opens it about once a month, usually before giving a talk about rape or while sharing her experience with a friend or stranger. She adds items occasionally -notes from discussions she leads, posters advertising dorm rape symposiums. let­ters from other victims she's met. The stuff jogs memories of anger, pain, regret, but Emily opens the container anyway. Rape is part of her life. 
* statistics according to the American Medical Association 
ifyou would like to discuss this story further with "Hmily. "please contact her 
at talkndsmc@hotmail.com. 
Faculty Senate Forum 
Diversity and Community* 
Presenters: 
Carol M:oon.ey, Vice President and Associate Provost Adela Penagos, Coordinator, Multicu.l~ral Student Affairs Jimmy Gurule, Professor.,. Notre Dame Law School 
Discussion to Follow 
1\.1:onday, April 10th 100-104 CCE, M:cKenna Hall 3:00 -5:00 
*Based on the Provost's Taskforce Committee Report on Diversity and Community 
Tomes, Fogarty share experience ministering to gangs 
By PATRICK BRENNAN 
News Writer 
Ministering to gang members can be dangerous but spiritually fulfilling, said Hrother Bill Tomes, who has worked with gang members for more than 1 7 wars. Tomes and Brother Jim r:ogarty visited the basement of Fisher Hall Wednesday night to talk about 
you, the sensible thing to do is walk away," he said, "On my first day, I wanted to get out of there, but I thought 'if I walk away, I'll never come back.' I stayed, and things got more peaceful." 
The brothers dist:ussed the danger of working in Urn pro­jects. Both rncountod stories of violence between rival gangs and heroic measures taken to prn­
ve n l such 
their ministry. violence, 
"I started "If God wanted this done. 
including the 
th is project he'd have to force it on practice of even further 
stepping
someone.
back than 17 
between 
years," Tomes 
gang mem­said. "Twenty Brother Bill Tomes bers during 
years ago, minister to gang members shootings.
Christ spoke to me. That spiri­tual experience laid the ground­work for what I do today." 
He is convinced that his work is done in accordance \'.ith God's plan for him. 
"If God wanted this done, he'd have to force it on someone," Tomes said. "Most people wouldn't choose to do this kind of work." 
Tomes and Fogarty spend their days in decidedly volatile surroundings. Every day, the two interact with inner-city youths in various Chicago housing pro­jects. 
According to Fogarty, tenacity is or great importance. "When violence is all around 
In spite of 
the danger, the brothers stressed the impor­lance of connecting with gang members. 
"People in the neighborhood sec you," said Fogarty. "Bonds are built through tragedies. Visiting gang mfHnbers in the hospital, visiting l'amilies when someone gets killed or hurt and stepping between gangs shoot­ing, it's all about proving your­self." 
Paris, a 24-year-old gang member and former drug dealer who accompanied the brothers to their talk, confirmed the strong community connections made by the brothers. 
"When I started hanging 
M CHAPI 
CONCERT Saturday, April 15, 2000, 4:00 pm 
(#? O'LaughlinAuditorium
l• Saint Mary's College 
56.00 Adults -s4,oo Children 
Tickets available at O'Laughlin Auditorium Box Office 
284-4626 
Sponso"d by: The Earl)' Childhood De,•elopmellf Ce11rer & Saint Mary's College ECDC: Celebratin 25 Years 
cinema@thesnite 

stamng Academy Award w;nner H;lary Swank 
Fri. &Sat. 7:15 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. presented by ND Film, Television, and Theatre www.nd.edu/---cothweb 
around Toomes -that's when I started believing in God," Paris said. 
When asked about Tomes, Paris, responded, "He's like a father to me ... I respect him." 
Tyrese, a 14-year-old who has also been a part of the brothers' ministry, also discussed Tomes' impact; he plans to finish school and has no plans to join a gang. 
For Tomes, the concessions of selfless ministry are not neces­sarily tangible ones. 
"The reward is obedience; we arc doing what Christ wants us to do. It's what we're supposed to do," he said. 

SUMMER TOUR GUIDES 
The Admissions Office needs tour guides who can work between 
May 22 nd-August 11th 
(and during the Notre Dame Summer Sessions). 
Full-time and part-time positions available. Applications: Room 220 Main Building or by e-mail at Joyce.2@nd.edu 
Deadline for applying: April 21st 
A Salute to the Leaders of Tomorrow ­Air Foe.... ROTC Cadets 
College is a time for decision Choose to become a leader 
•·:,,·,/.,,. . 
. ::~:-;;;, ' .. . ··,:: ;: : 
·\··•·•.·.,{'i., ..,,,, "° ....·•.····· .. ' 
Smart move. The whole concept of Air Force ROTC revolves around the cultivation of leadership qualities. Whether you're about to start college or have already begun, it's time to make your decision, now. 

Making Leaders for the Air Force and Better Citizens for America 
Contact Captain Klubeck at 631-4676, or K1ubeck.1@nd.edu 
Gingrich finalizes second divorce 
Associated Press 
M/\RIFTTA. Ga. 
Newt Gingrich's divorce from his wife of 18 years was final­ized Thursday "vhcn a judge approved a scttlmnent agree­m c n t rnached by the couple in Docnm­ber. 
Mari ­
a n n e 
Gingrich appeared in court to answer rnutint\ qunstions. but the for­mer House speak1\r wasn'l presnnt. Superior Court .Judge Dorothy Robinson sealNI the agrnumnnl. kenping its Lnrrns closed lo the public. 

"She intnnds to continue with her charity work, including the Red Cross, and she's going to take the next few weeks to examine various opportunities that are now available to her," said Marianm~•s attorney John Mayoue. 
Gingrich. 56. separated from his "vifo last May and filed for divorrn in July. ms attorneys have acknowledged his rela­tionship with Callista Ilisek, a 33-year-old fornrnr congres­sional aide, that began in 1993. 
The divorce is Gingrich's sec­ond. Ile married his former high school geometry teachcr, Jackie Rattley, when he was 
18. They were divorced in 1981, aftor having two daugh­lf1rs. Within months, Gingrich nmrricd Marianne (;inthfn-, 48. a county planner and business consultant rrorn Ohio. 
Lesbian awarded 'parental' rights 
Associated Press 
TRENTON. N.J. 
In a ruling on the parental rights of same-sex couples hailed as the strongest to date, the New Jersey Supreme Court dedared that lesbian partners who raise children have the same legal rights of any parent when deciding custody issues. 
The court unanimously ruled that a lesbian who helped raise her then-lover's twins was a "psychological parent" with legal standing akin to the bio­logical mother, and granted the woman visitation now that the couple has split up. 
Legal advocates for gay and lesbiau rights called the ruling thP broadest to date in cement­ing the rights of same-sex part­ners. 
"It is really a gnm11dbrnaking decision," said Michael Adams of the American Civil Liberties Union's National Lesbian and Gay Rights Project. "The issue here is that once vou have a parent-child relationship, we are nut going to focus on legal technicalities.... The only moral issue here is what is best for tile child." 
Jan LaRue, lawyer with the Family Research Council in Washington, chided the court, saying it went too far in its rul­ing and trampled the rights of bii'th mothers. 
"We have got a Supreme Court in New Jersey that has made law rather than inter­preted it," La Rue said. "They have acknowledged that there is no statute that would grant psychological parenthood, yet they went on to create it." 
The case involved a woman who became pregnant by artifi­cial insemination and gave birth to twins in 1994 that she and her lesbian partner, identi­fied only as V.C., raised togeth­er for two years. 
After their 1996 separation, a trial court denied V.C. joint cus­tody and visitation. An appel­late court gave her visitation rights but was divided in its legal reasoning as to why. 
In Thursday's ruling, Associate Justice 
tive for all involved," Long said. 
Ruth Harlow, an attorney for the New York-based Lambda Legal Defense & Education Fund. which litigates for the rights of gays and lesbians. said the ruling fell along the lines of a lesbian-parent decision in Wisconsin in 1995. In that rul­ing, the court ord·ercd a lower court to reconsider its decision to turn down a woman's request for visits with the son of her f'ormr,r lesbian lover. 
But the New Jersey Supreme 
C o u r t 
employcd 

Virginia Long said V.C. car­ries the sta­ "The only moral issue here is what is  stronger lan­guage about the equal  
tus of a "psy­ best for the child. "  legal rights or  
chological  lesbian part­ 
parent" to the children  Michael Adams  ners, Ilar!ow said.  
and  has  a  ACLU  "It is  very  

right to share parenting duties. despite the objections of the birth mother, identified only as M.J.B. 
"Each appears to be a fully capable, loving parent commit­ted to the safety and welfare of the twins," Long wrote. 
The ruling maintained V.C.'s rights for weekend visitation with the twins. But Long turned down V.C.'s request for joint legal custody, which would have given her a say regarding decisions on the children's upbringing-only because V.C. has not been involved in deci­sions regarding upbringing for four years. 
"To interject her into the decisional realm at this point would be unnecessarily disrup­much focused 
on making 

sure that no matter what kind 
of family a child has boon 
raised in. if someone has func­
tioned as a parent, that person 
can go into court and ask if it is 
in the child's best interests to 
continun that relationship." 
Harlow said. 
The ruling is also similar to a 

Massachusetts high court ruling 
last June that granted visitation 
rights to a lesbian who helped ·raise her ex-partner's son. 
By contrast, in California, 

New York and Florida, state 
courts have ruled within the 
partnors are not entitled to visi­
tation rights with children they 
helped nurture, regardless of 
how deep the emotional bond. 
past 18 months that lesbian ex­

II • THE FOODI ~ Dairy Queen, Domino's,iNAZZ winner Sexual Chocolate Papa John'si Carroll Hall House Band Wolfie'si D-BoNeZ and Doc Brown Iiiiiii 2000 ~ iI IIIi ACARROLL HALL EvENT ~ I ~ Front Lawn of Carroll Hall 3-6 PM Saturday, April 8thI ~ i All proceeds benefit t~e Make A Wish FoundationIII Food tickets available pre-sale or at the door for $0.50 eachIi (Rain location is in Stepan Center) ~ ~  
 
@]  @]  

The University ofNotre Dame's 
C. Robert Hanley Lecture 
Speaker of the House Dennis Hastert "The 1 06th Congress: A Report from the Speaker'' 
Saturday, April 8 
2:30 p.m. 
Auditorium, Hes burgh Center for International Studies 
The Hanley Lectures on Values and Public Policy at Notre Dame are underwritten with a gift from C. Robert Hanley, a 1954 Notre Dame graduate and the founder and chairman emeri­tus of Federal Data Corporation, and his wife, Margie Hanley. The lectures are delivered both on campus and in the nation's capital as part of Notre Dame's Washington program. 
Catholic Church seeks return of women who aborted 

/\saoda1eJ Press 
ROSTON 
The Homan Catholic Church has bngun a nationwide cam­paign urging women who have had abortions -and now feel estrangPd from the faith -to undergo counseling and return to the fold. 
BPcausP the Vatican consid­ers abortion the taking of a human life and a mortal sin, some women who have termi­nated a prcgnancy feel unwcl• comc in church. The Church's goal is to reassure these women and bring them back to Catholicism. 
"Many people think that abor­tion is tlH\ unforgivable sin, and that they have Sf'Vornd tlwir tio with lhe Church forever. In !'act it is tlw romplete oppGsito,'' Barbara Thorp, director of pro­life services for tho Archdiocese of Boston. "We want people to understand that there is noth­ing that separatHs us from the love of God." 
The campaign also is the Church's first widespread effort to encourage all wo·men, not just Catholics. to seek spiritual help after ha,ing abortions. 
For that reason, the radio and billboard ads do not menlion the Catholic Church but instead have the slogan "Something inside dies after an abortion." They also use the words uf wonten who have had abor­tions; "Nol one day goes by that I don't think of my baby boy," one woman says. 
The ads include a toll-l'ree numher for Project Rachel. the Church's post-abortion counsel­ing service that bogan 15 years ago. It is named for a Biblical figure who mourns the death of her children. 
Until now. Project Rachel was handled locally through Church literature or radio ads. The wirlrr campaign, organizrd by the National Conference of Bishops, is pegged to the Church's Jubilee Year, or 2,000th birthday. Heconciliation is one of' Pope John Paul ll's themes for the celebration. 
In an interview. one Boston­area woman said she felt she was "unforgivable" for 20 years after having an abortion. She was a lapsed Catholic and a supporter of the abortion-rights movement in 1997 when she heard a local Project Radio ad on the radio. She sought coun­seling and wound up returning tu the church. 
"It. gave me a way to make peace with God, my child and myself and to be able to move forward. I wanted a spiritual life," said the 46-year-old busi­nesswoman, who spoke on con­dition of anonymity. 
THERE'S ONE Gt-<EAT THING ABOUT GOING FISHING HERE I THERE'S NO LIMIT. 

THE DELICIOUS BK BIG FISH~ VALUE MEAL. 
After one bile, you'll be hooked on our tasty fish fllet topped with fresh lettuce and tangy tartar sauce along with crispy fries and an ice•cold dnnk. And best of all, this ,s one fishing spot that never runs out. 
The Huddle -Lafortune Student Center 

HAVE IT YOUR WAY' 
"I spoke with the most won­derful priest. He was so loving, so nonjudgmental. A few months later I made confes­sion." 
The eight-week campaign began Feb. 1 in the Washington area. It starts this month in Nebraska and next month in Boston. Ads are in the works for three more states and 10 more dioceses. depending on funding. 
Church officials said the cam­paign is already having results. 
When ads ran in the Washington-Baltimore area, Project Rachel counselors receivf1d about 150 calls for information during a two-week period, compared with the usual eight or so, said Helen Alvare, spokeswoman for con­ference's Secretariat for Pro­life Activities. 
Of those new callers, about 40 percent were non-Catholics, she said. They were referred lo rabbis, Protestant clergy or non-denominational social workers. 
I 
"The pain from abortion that women and men experience is not limited to one particular religious faith." Thorp said. "And the pain of abortion is a feeling of isolation. There's this sense that you're not supposed to feel this way. We stand ready to help anyone who is hurting." 
Some abortion rights activists suspect the church has political motives. 
Michelle Hinguette, spokes­woman for the Planned Parenthood League of Massachusetts. wondered if the ad campaign was timed lo coin­cide with Supreme Court argu­ments April 25 over the proce­dure abortion foes call partial­birth abortion. 
Ringuette also said the cam­paign could exaggerate the number of women who suffer severe emotional distress after abortions. Out of 1,000 abor­tions a month in Massachusetts, she said. only two to four women call for counseling, mostly over religious or cultural shame. 
THE OBSERVER 
Make it a part of your day. 

the WHC. Although  WHC supportnrs at  
r.nding Pmm State's  the Univnrsity of'  
corporatn rnlation- Wisconsin had to lw  
ship with Nikn  hauh1d out of  
might not Im a bad  Chancellor's ollicn  
thing, it isn't somH­thing that should  -, '  in Febnrary, All Penn Stat,~ policn  
be hastily decided.  ........ ,  .:i ....­ had to do was ask  


VIEWPOINT 
DILBERT 
ALWAYS ASK THIS BUMPER 
YOURSELf , WHAT STICKER WILL WOULD DOGBERT HELP REMIND DO? YOU. 
scon·ADAMS 
UMM... I WOULDN'T DO THAT. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Ninety-eight percent ofthe adults in this country are decent, hard-working honest Americans. It\; the other two percent that get all the publicity. But then -we elected them." 
Lily Tomlin 
actress 

page J2 
THE OBSERVER 
l1u: lrrdep,:mii:m, Dm{y .Vew,rpi,lper Seri•ing N,;,17T Dn1111 ,mrl S,1n11 .W,,,y'1 
I' 0 Bo, Q, Norre Dame, IN 4G~5r, 024 Som!, Dining Hall, i-:orre Dam,. l:,.l 4605(, 
fDJTOR 11' CH!Er Mike Conrtoll\' 
MANAGING EDITOR  BIJSINfSS MANAGER  
Noreen (;i!lesr,ie  Tim Lane  
AssT. MANAGING 1:DITOR  0PERH!O:',;S MANAGER  
Tim Logan  Brian Kt"ssler  

NEWS EnlTOR; r\nue Marie Mmingly YIE\\'l'OINT EDITOR: Lil:1 HJttghcv SClNL [DJTOR: Amanda G rem SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smi1h SAINT MARY'S folTOR: l\folly McVoy PHOTO EDITOR: Liz Lang 
ADVERTISING MA.NAGER: Pac Peters AD DESIGN MANAGER: Chris Avib SYSTEMS ADMJNJSTRATOR: Mike Gunville WFB AnMINTSTRATOR: Adam Turne, GitAl'HICS EDITOR; Jose Cudl.ir CONIROLLER: Boh Woods 
CONTACT Us 
0Ff!CF MANAGFR/GF.NF.RAL INFO .. ,., .....,6.~l-747! 
FAx... ...................... , .................................. 631 •692? 
AuVt:RTISf);G............., ........... ,...........631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc, nd.cdu EDITOR IN CHIEF..........................,.............631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AsST. ME ................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OmcL... , .... ,,,......................... 631-5313 NEWS, .. ,, .. ,.,,, ,...........,... ,......,... ,.......... ,......631-5323 
observer.obsnews, I@nd ,edu VIEWPOINT.. ...... , .. ,...... ,, ....................,, .....631-5303 observer.viewp()int. l@nd.edu SroRTS.. , ,....., .... , ..... ,, ............,.................631-4 543 observer .spons. l@nd.edu SCENE.. .... , ... ,...... ,..........,............................631-4 540 observer.scene, l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S....................................,........631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO.. , .. ,, ....,, .. ,, .. ,................. ,, ....., .. ,,...631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire ac http:llob,erveu1ded11 For daily updates ofcampus news. spores. features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press, 
SURF TO: 
weacher for up-to-rhe 
movies/music for 
weekly smdent reviews
minute forecasts 
advertise for policies 
online fea£UJ"es for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campu.~ coverage 
about The Observer 
archives to search for 
articles pttblished a!i:er 
m meet rhe edi\Ors and 
sra!T
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online hy the students ofthe University ofNocre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College, Editorial content, i nduding advertisements, is not governed by policies ofche administration ofeither instimcion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverrisemems based on comem. 
The news is reported as accurately and ob;ectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majorir:y ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edicor and department editors, Comme,uaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners co the Ediror must be signed and must include contact information, 
Questions regarding Observer policies should b, dirra­,·dto Editor in ChiefMike ComwLlr. 
OBS~RVER Friday, April 7, 2000 
EDITORIAL 
Saint Mary's made right choice on WRC 
/\!though Saint Mary's doPs not pro­duce a significant a.mount nl' apparel, thP Cnlleg\1 had u moral obligation to join the anti-sweatshop mov0mn11t. A school that pales in comparison lo largP universities which basn a significant portion of their incom1, on apparrl sales, many could doubt tho institution had much to offer in the drlmte ovN sweatshop monitoring. 
Hegardless, the College look a slaml l\1onday a111101111cing it woulct h(•cnmP one of the 35 founding schools in the Worker Hights Consortium !WBC), 13acked by tlrn tlwories oncompassing Catholic social teacliing and an inlwr• ent moral obligation. the CollPgr\ s,~ts a precedent that tlrn anti-sweatshop move,mml is a priority for every school, no matter what the size. 
The College's decision to join Lhe WHC will allow the institution to voice loudly the perspuctivn of a small school and potentially set an agenda that can be effective for small institutinns in the struggle for sweatshop monitoring, 
Surely Notre Dar1111 will faee criticism 
WRC a fledgling group with promise 
(U-WIRE) UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa. ­Last week, Penn State Universitv stu• dents unfmled banners as part oftheir ongoing crusade to persuade the univer­
sity to join the  
Workers Right  Staff Editorial  
Consortium, a sweat­ 
shop watchdog  
group. While the student­ The Daily  
activists had  Collegian  
extremely good  
intentions, their lol't.y  
demands and protest  

tactics left much to be desired. 
A newly formed organization, Students for Accountably and Rnform, along with scores of groups at other universities across the country bulieve that universi­ties' existing fail-safe against sweatshop injustices, the Fair Labor Association, is influenced too much by its corporate membership and is failing to do its job. 
The WRC, which has no corporate members, is a better option to prevent sweatshop abuses than is the FLA, but the protesters not only want Penn State to join the consortium but also demand the university join by Friday, 
The consortium is geared toward polic­ing the production of college products, looks for abuses of human rights and demands reasonable living wages for employees. In contrast. the FLA's fair market wages provision varies from country to country, creating a serious imbalance in worker income. 
However, Penn State's potential mem­bm·ship in the WHC could have broader implications. and university oflir.ials am in tho wakl' ol'tlw decision: but such criticism is unjustilicd. A leader in the anli-sweatslrnp movement since before tlw crnation of' the Fair Labor Association (Fl.A) one year ago, Notro Dame decided to refrain from joining tlw WHC until a lat11r date. This is a smart dPcision. 
WhilP Notrr llc1mP might bP ahlP to add a strong voicn to thr. WHC, it has already ('stablishnu itself' at tlrn fcme­front of the fight against sweatshops, B1\causc llw WHC is still in tilf' dcv,dop· ing stages, Notrn Dame rnns tho risk of' committing itsl'lf lo new goals that could potentially rnnl1ict with previous­ly cstablislrnd goals. 
While the still clcveloping goals of Saint Mary's aro morn concurrent with tlw grassroots structurn of thti WHC. the substantial rorporate base that r.haractnrizcs Notre Dam,~·s apparel indust.ry is morP in line with tlrn goals of the FL/\. Saillt r-.lary's would undoubtedly bP lost in lhe FI A's corpo­rati' structure. but the organization is a logical lit for Notn' Dame, which relies 
right to be cautious about running into another sweatshop monitoring group. For example, Nike announced last 
week tlmt it will cancel its apparel 
contracl with Brown L'nivnrsitv becausn of the school's 11wmbership in 
............. \"\. 
The effncts on the athletic programs at Penn Stat1\ and ...',,the university in 
~ 
genoral, are seri­ous imough to war­rant caution. 
STAB wants Penn State to join the WRC by Friday bncause, as a·founding member, the university will be able to shape the organization's policies. 
But compared to the risks or joining the consortium without propnr research, the b,~nc!its of Penn State becoming a founding member arc almost trivial. 
Lobbying to joining the WRC is a good move on STAR's part, and the protesters neRd to be more aggressive and assertive in lhrir demonstrations and have persua­sive arguments prepared for the admin­istration. Last week's demonstration was hr~avily on corporate licPnsing con­tracts. 
Tlrn College's decisi(in to join lhP. WHC oxmnplifies a situation where onn dcei­sion dons not benelit each institul.io11 equally, Saint Mary's Prnsid1mt Marilou EldrPd acknowledged this Monday in stating Lhat this was a casP wlwr<> "orw decisi.on lits Notre DarnP lwst. and another decision fits Saint Marv·s best.'' 
Each school should lrn romm;•ndnd f'or tlwir mutual comrnitnrnnt to tlw anti-sweatshop movement. and con• gratulatr.d !'or thn carA with whil'h limy assoss tlwir decisions. In evaluating wlwrf1 <'ach institution can lrnsL achirvn tlwir individual goals. sPparnt.Ply tlwy havn created a very pow1irful union. 
Both Saint 'Vlary's rnrmlwrship in llw WHC and Notrn Dame's memlwrship in the FLA will bring Llw concepts of' Catholic social teaching that ar11 so inhnrent in 1,ach school's.ideals to tlw organizations they have chosen to join, Although pursuing different paths, what remains most critical is that each has a common goal. 
a far cry from WRC-rP-lated protests at other universities, such as tlrn ongoing hunger strike at Purdue University. 
\,Vhen approached by Penn State 
the protnstors hnrn to leave. 
For STAH to actually inlhwnce change on this campus. its mem­
bnrs will need to do a little morn than raising banners and 
hanging out on Old Main lawn. And they will need to 
make a strong argument to convince administrators that 

affiliating with the WRC would not only be good for workers, but would also benefit the institution. 
This staffeditorial first appeared in the Pennsyluania State University newspa­per, the Daily r:ollegian. on April 5, 2000. It is reprined here courtesy ofU-Wire. 
The views expressed in thi,c; column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
VIEWPOINT 
Friday, April 7, 2000 

Students' religious freedom denied on Lenten Fridays 
Last Friday, I sat in South Dining 1-Ia!I, marveling at my friends' suddenly vegetarian diets. Salads, tofu and cereal replaced Lhe hamhnrgPrs, chicken pattiPs and beef burritos that usually graced their dinner plates. ,\s I munched on my plate of steamed vegeta­
' bins, I did not as usual foe! like a dietary pariah or the resident hnalth nut. ("What? Is this nuts and berries <lay'?" a l'rifind asked once afLer glancing al my tray.I Cnfortunately tlwir dietetic shifts did not result from a conscious choice./\ Catholic institution, the University serves no meat in the dining halls on Fridays during Lent. 
In sonrn rospects, I understand tho rationale for llw absence of meat. Abstinence from mPat on Fridays is an essential, especially Catholic tradition that marks Friday as a day of penance. The observation of this tradition tlwro!'ore could be construed as an explicit definition of tho University's Catholicism. AbstincnC'.e also has social and economical basPs. (As om'-priPst jokingly told me, the ApostlPs wew fishermen.) By forgoing meat, Amerkan Catholics acknowledge the enor­mous amounts of grain consumed by cattle each year. Tlwort'tically. this grain could feed those hungry throughout the countrv and tlrn world. 
YeL by forcing tho r.ntire student population to partake in this Catholic sacrifice, the University removes the students' ability to avoid consciously the temptation of meat and to choose freely their degree of religious devotion. It also demonstrates disrespect !'or thP non-Catholics and non-practicing Catholics within the com­munity. who havn paid to eat the food in the dining hall. (Certain atheists. annoyed at tho denial of a dietary staple, have threat­Pned to stage barbecues in protest in the middle of South Quad.} t\lost importantly. the administration exacerbates a pervasive problem among its students. Many within the community believe the University discourages exploration of faith as it could lead to a temporary or permanent rejection of the Catholic Church. 
Ironically the Univf1rsity's unwavering adherence to such tradi­tions serves to weaken the influence of the Church in the commu­nity. Throughout my first year, I have felt pressured to affirm strongly my faith in and devotion to the Catholic Church. The exclusive nature of Catholicism at this University has inspired within me a desire to rebel from the Church. Amidst fervent, con­snrvative Catholicism. I have lost faith in the religion of my family and havP questimrnd the basis of my beliefs. Certainly, these feel­ings in part rnsult from my own, natural intellectual growth. l havn rc>cognizncl that I have !10t realized for myself a system of values and beliefs. but have simply aosorbed those presented to me by my l'amily and community. 
By not serving meat in the dining hall on Fridays during Lent, thc University appears to act as my mother or the cafett!ria ladies at my grammar school. who ordered pizza and made peanut but­ter sandwiches for my lunch. Of course, I practiced abstinence as a child: no meat was available for me to consume. 
llownver, college students in my situation not only possess the right to make their own decisions in simple religious matters, like Friday abstinence. but also benefit from the decision-making procnss. Small daily actions and religious rlecisions throughout the day define our faith on the most has.iG level. (These dec.isions may also hr.Ip us discover our true friends. Earlier this month, a CP-r­tain frinnd of mine laughed as a mutual friend unconsciously broke her Lenten resolution Lo abstain from dessert.) 
Tho opportunity for me to break consciously Lenten abstinence f:xists mi campus. It' I develop sudden craving for a hamburger, I can walk to Lafortune and purchase a Whopper. Yet. at some point today. r will have to eat in the dining hall and will have my dedsion to consume or to not consume meat taken from me. Perhaps in tlrn end, the dearth of meat in the dining hall may only stand as a minor annoyance and as a reminder that I attend a Catholic Universitv. My cxpcctance of hamburgers and hot dogs in the cafeteria may-only symbolize my privileged upbringing in comµarison with most othnr childhoods throughout the world. But. as mv atheist frit>nrl. Bekki, noter! when I mentioned this to hnr. "!L's tho principle behind the matter." 
Joanna Mikulski is afreshmrm. lier column appears every other Friday. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Joanna Mikulski 
Tuesday Voice on Friday 
osstRVER page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Love by the glow of a computer 
I would like tn take issue with the letter about "Loving in the Computer Lab." I have a question for Numan or any followers/proponents of his request/thesis: how exactly A.re we supposed to control our natural urges with the fruitful and erotic activities of telnetting, ftping and compil­ing going on9 We'rn only human, you know ... Furthermore, if you've heard some of the start­up sounds and seen some of the wallpaper/back­grounds, t&n you would know that this concept of love is just what computing is all about. What's better than turning on your computer and hearing that beautiful sound of "You·ve got mail!"'? H's enough to make me try to woo an archmrnrny. 
On a mo.re serious note, though ... what exactly is the uniqueness of this backlash against "PDA" in the computer lab? Doesn't it occur every­where? Wouldn't one, theoretically, be just as nauseated while studyin.g on a quad, at LaFortune, at Reckers or in the library'? I strong­ly urge that if PDA is an issue for anyone. that they address or take issue with the root or the problem and not some vague sort of alternate causality in the hopl!S that your problems will be solved. lf you take the latter method, the problem is sure to just crop up elsewhere and produce another misgiving. As the saying goes, "Give a man a fish," or maybe we're better off just "nip­ping it in the bud." Oh. and by the way, this letter was composed from a Unix lab, where the lovin' is always warm and abundant. 
Mark Sty<.:Zynslci Sophomore. Sorin College Arri! 3, 2000 

Rape survivors are not alone 
I would like to applaud the 
! woman who reported her rape. It took great courage. Please know that even though the campus statistics don't reflect it, you are not alone. As a member of Campus Alliance for Rape Elirnination(CARE) and a fellow survivor, I have done some presentations at dorms about my experience. I have met at least twenty women who have been raped. While most have not reported it, those who have been raped off-campus and reported it would not be counted in the statistics because the law does not require the college to do so. . 
I would also like to take note· with the terms acquaintance and date rape. Rape is rape. Sometimes people feel it's less serious than stranger rape. However, it is still a very trau­matic experience in which one questions their other relation­ships and lose faith in trust. 
Hopefully this unfortunate incident will spur discussion about women and violence. CARE is sponsoring activities during the week of April 17 as part of Sexual Assault Awareness Week. Rape is more common at Notre Dame than people would like to believe. Notre Dame is not exempt from the statistic that 1 in 5 women will be raped or attempted to be raped during college. For more informat1011 about rape and sexual assault, or how to help yourself or another, con­tact SOS or CARE. 
Kelly McGeever Senior, Lyons Hall April 5, 2000 

Abortion an issue of respect for sex 
I often read the columns in the Observer, and "that the rights or an unborn child should be pro-most of the time I am content with letting the tected," yet it is okay to kill that unborn child just writers' opinions go by without even thinking because mommy and daddy didn't think things about ways to disagree. This is not one of those through beforehand. That is protecting no one. times. I am responding to the Inside -----By claiming abortion is everyone's right, Colu.mn that appeare.d. on Wednesday, (;2 we are only encouraging people to keep April 5. having careless sex at an immature 
I am against abortion -not age. Thus, the cycle continues. Who
1/,/because I was rai.sed Catholic, not ~ cares if you get pre~nant'. Ju~t have because I go to church on Sundays, , a quick, easy abortion, nght? not because I attend the ~Wrong. Abortions are anything University of Notre Dame -but but q1:1ick and easy. The author is
1/, _____ 
because I firm.ly believe that ~------glossmg over the countless . 
------=
abortion is an immoral act that , women who go through parnis fundamentally wrong under · . and mental agony after the any circumstance. Being / _______ abortion. Years later, some 
against abortion is not a ques-women still wonder about the tion of being Catholic; it's a lives they ended -all question of having a human because they, along with the sense of morality. Implying fathers of these children, that people who are Pro Life were not ready to accept blindly follow some teaching being pregnant. I don't see set by some religion that how this could possibly be a brainwashes people is ludi-good way to deal with a preg­crous, and frankly, that way nancy. The author admits of thinking offends me. I that having sex at a young know people who are Pro-Life age when the two people are and are not Catholic. By the not ready is a mistake, yet she same token, I know people is giving them an easy out. By who are practicing Catholics making an abortion easy, we and am Pro-Choice. Lumping are saying it is an option. I say Catholicism and Pro-Life it is not an option, ever. Don't together. claiming one causes demand that this University the other, is inaccurate. consider it an option. And don't Numerous religions find abortion . be shocked and shaken when 
unacc~ptable. I ~on't think it's a. •~.... they don't b1!dgn on. the issue. bud tlung that mme happens to ~· They shouldn t. stand up for it. _ ·-The bottom line is that fighting for 
Since ,vhen is it our choice to · ---~ or against abortion is not going to decide who lives and who dies? ~ solve the problem. We have to get to Abortion is not about a "right to choose." the heart of the issue. Don't encourage The choice is already made the niinute two ...._____,.. women to have abortions; encourage peo­people decide to have sex. If those two individ-pie to wait to have sex until they are ready to uals are not rnady to deal with any and every deal with all possible outcomes of it. possible consequence of their actions, whether they are B. 23 or 43, they are simply not ready Mary Schreck to have sex. Sophomore, McGlinn Hall 
The author of the column claims she believes Aptil 5, 2000 
C s 
page 14 Friday, April 7, 2000 

Chatting it up with the guys behii 
ND Today. com s creators tell the inspiration for their site, how the~ 
By GEOFF HEIPLE Scene Writl'r 
Bere's a poll for you: What Website has had the most profound effect on the students of Notre Dame this vear'? While many would check the box for Abercrombie.com, the big winner is a local upstart -NDToday.f'om. This site has come from near obscurity to establish itself as a mainstay in the lives of many students, faculty and alumni. Developed by three enterpris­ing students, NDToday has become a campus sensation with its great fea­tures, student info and general Web­surfing potential. NDToday is a portal site; that is, it specifically taxgets I\Jotre Dame students, with the goal of having NDToday serve as the primary launching page for its users when they connect to the internet. Drawing nearly 20,000 page views per day, NDToday has grown from an idea to a reality. 
"We just thought 
The superhighwaymen began work­ing over the summer, each from their respective homes across the country, to lay the initial groundwork for the Website. They communicated only through e-mail, except when a sub­stantial decision needed to be dis­cussed over the phone. This past fall, they returned to Notre Dame to begin their junior year and brought their new concept back with them . 
This past August, potential visitors to the site didn't really have much to look al once they ventured to it. The graphics wcren 't together yet, many of the services offered to the students were nut functional and 3bstudios was actually paying out money in order to gei links to sites such as ]crew.com and Monster.com. '.\levertheless. the three Webmasters pushed on -not only intent upon building their dream, but equally focused on providing their school­mates with a Website exclusively aimed at the students' 
interests.
that it would be pret­7We} provide services that 
ty cool if it existed," This has been
consistently bring students 
co-creator Frank their goal 
Helgesen satd. "It's back to the site and are helpful since the an idea that we to them.,, site's incep­began to discuss at tion -to go the end of last year." b e y o n d 
Frank Helgesen 
Helgesen shared cheesy gim­his imagination with junior, O'Neill Hall micks and in his friend, Andv co-creator of 3bstudios the words of Warzon, who became Fellers, "pro­
and NDToday
Frank's partner in design. The site was beginning to come together, but they still felt that it lacked another important dimension. 
'Tm an engineer, Frank's good with business and yet, there was still another aspect that we felt we were missing," stated Warzon. 
During this past summer, Helgesen contacted another friend with strong Web design capabilities, Nick Fellers -the triumvirate was now complete. That union forged more than a Website, it marked the birth of 3bstn­dios, the company that oversees NDToday. 
vide services 
that consis­
tently bring students back to the site and are help­ful to them." 
The creators see their site as an extension of the Notre Dame comnrn­nity. All over campu~. students and faculty are meeting, they're convers­ing and people are interacting with each other. By introducing the cam­pus to NDToday, the triple entente has given the student body one more outlet for interaction, on the Internet. 3bstudios has never contributed to the content of the page; they leave that up to the students. It has only provided the forum for the students, g1vrng them a voicP and allowing them to decide what gets put on the page. Students send hun­dreds of e-mails to 3bstudios giving ideas, sharing opin­ions or posting edi­torials on the web­page's "Free Press" site. 

Also, the creators talk to many stu­dents on a daily basis. They really make an effort to talk to their friends, faculty, administra­tion and other ran­dom students to gain a valuable perspec­tive on what's work­ing and what's not. 
Nevertheless, all the extra input from others certainly doesn't detract from the innovative bril­liance exhibited by Fellers, Warzon and Helgesen. The site is a reflection of their creativity and their personalities. As stu­dents, they know what life is like at Notre Dame. 
NDToday is compiled from the luxurious, spacious quarters of a
NDToday serves as a marvelous example Helgesen, Andy Warzon and Nick Fellers) work with each other of a Website meeting showcases entertaining and informative items for the campus. 

the needs and opin­ions of its users. The end result is an exceptional, collabo­rative effort between the creators and the interfacers. 
Just what features have made NDToday so popular'? How did this Website go from zero to trendy so quickly? The modest creators will say that the overwhelming input from the · student body as a whole has con­tributed to the flourishing page. It is 
clearly evident, howev­
er, that the never-end­
ing commitment to 
development by Fellers, 
Warzon and Helgesen is 
the actual reason for 
success. For example, 
no one can deny the 
remarkable impact that 
the voting booth feature 
has had as a means of 
student awareness. 
about two dozen new 
polls are created by the 
students themselves ­
yet this concept 
emerged from the col­
lective brain of 3bstu­
dios. 
"It's a quick and easy way io see what other students are thinking about all over campus and to share opinions," Fellers said. "It helps connect students to one another." 
The three wise men of NDToday also saw the popularity of tho voting booth as the first stage in an evolutionary process. Students who come just to check out the polls eventually find
AMANDA GRECO/The Observer 
themselves clicking on
Though their succesful site has gained them attention and a notable mention In "Sports Illustrated," Nick, Frank and Andy have stayed down-to-earth and personable. 
links to other features or Websites. The message board is another excel­lent means of communication and exchange of ideas between students. 
In addition to the voting booth, the creators are especially proud of some other services and features. Most notably, during this season of DART, the online teacher course evaluations may prove to be a smart way of researching a course before a student makes a potentially damaging course 
selection. Students who wish to express their feelings on a specific course or professor enter the evaluations themselves. 
T h e Leprechaun," a new online comedy mag­azine on the site, was shaped not by 3bstudios but by other students who envisioned a good idea, e­m ai Ied the NDToday bovs and cre­ated an amusing fea­ture. 
Did you meet a spe­cial someone at an off­campus party and all you got was their 
;t:Ge,ftl ~­1'>'15.Ptt. l{,_tr,-,..r,11'>-, 
~:~~..«I 
1;. JIM . .. .,:fr..--~ $.MPH ·• 
~-~~ 
1Ml'H -11;-.,.f.Arit'· 
-:r a:w,,., ....,..--~. "'-''' 
.. -..; ,· .:,;.--',·. 
f}3~ 11::U ffl· . · -'~ ,,~ ~ ,, tlr.lCI IN W!Je,/"t:. t.',vQ}Jt(,iut 

When you surf to NDToday, yo interactive page that has e events to dally weather forecas 
C 
s
en@ 
O
THE Friday, April 7, 2000 BSERVER page 15 
d the campus' favorite Website 
keep it going and what they see for the future of their venture 

AMANDA GRECOffile Observer 
orm room in O'Neill. The creators (from the left, Frank nd the student body to provide an Interactive site that 
first name and dorm? The search engine at ND-Today is powerful enough to match some hits and will never return with "too many entries to print." ND-Today plays cupid with the eD4!lgbook, another fine example of meeting campus social concerns. One simply enters his or her name and the name(s) of people they might like to get to know better into their database. The computer then notifies the interfacer of' any potential match-can visit Alta Visia. com, Raging Bull.com, Barnes & Noble. com and a host of others. 3bstudios also takes pleasure in working with local establishments and businesses. Two weeks ago, ND-Today teamed up with Coach's Sports Bar to provide a first­class party highlighted by ddnk specials, give­aways and free appe­tizers. Students will be able to purchase The Undertones' CD as Wflll as access mp3s from local bands. The movie and restaurant reviews are right on, and taken with lhflir follow-up suggestions, can pro­vide for either a quali­ty night in South Bend or a delicious dine-in from one of the many restaurants found on the site. 
Technologically speaking, the site is quite sound. A far cry from the HTML days, the creators have implemented "Cold Fusion" -a modified expansion from the original HTML. Cold 1-<usion is an interactive 
dynamic -not a static system. For example, it is Cold Fusion that allows one to interface with NDToday through 
the voting booth, free press and other features. A static system would not allow the user to do much with the site other than scroll up and down and visit links, merely for observation. As a building language, Cold Fusion is on the tip of the software industry, and for that reason, is the language of choice for NDToday and 3bstudios. This dynamic also enables the site to boot-up differently each time it is accessed, meaning that different pho­tos or different features could be showcased the next time one enters the site's address. Also, one can cus­tomize NDToday, first by registering with 3bstudios on NDToday. Then, every time one logs on to NDToday, he or she will see only the specific items according to his or her per­sonal preferences. 
While NDToday serves as a model collegiate Website in many regards, it has met with both criticism and favor from the Notre Dame admin­istration. "We're very much in contact with them and they have been, overall, very supportive of us," stated Fellers. 
Warzon followed, "We were surprised by their positive reception." According to Helgesen, Warzon and Fellers, the University acknowledges them on a pro­fessional level and is con­cerned only that the Website reflects well upon all that shares in the Notre Dame community. The co-creators do a superb job maintaining the integrity of the students and the University. To illus­trate, the "Waterboy" fiasco was handled resourcefully by the site managers -not allowing a single, slanderous remark to be broadcast over their Webpage. It is interesting to note that many faculty members enjoy viewing the Website and several administration officials also peruse its links on a regular basis. 

Glancing into the future, ND-Today looks to continue blazing up the lad­der of achievement. In creased dis­tribution and popularity has made ND­Today, as well as 3bstudios, hot commodi­ties in the Internet world. Helgest1n, Warzon and Fellers have each received offers to be purchased, however, the creators will not discuss it. They feel that the site belongs to the Notre Dame students, and therefore, must be main­tained by Notre. Dame students. As for 3bstu­dios, while H is not for sale, it's ser­vices have been employed by several companies needing Web design and production. All three Webmasters sec NDToday, while not for profit, as a launching pad towards future success in Wch design. The production of the site and its vvondcrful reception speak better for their respective reputations than any monetary payment. 
NDToday is "always developing." The designers want to implement more academic resources. They would like to have graduate students serve as exports in different academic areas, fielding questions from under­graduate students. They would also like to bring Cliff's Notes to the Website. The trio is also trying to compile a CD of local bands that they would sell from their site. Helgesen remarked that the group would like to see greater student club interaction on the Website. Clubs could post info, put editorials on the free press or message board or perhaps get a per­sonalized section of NDToday ­exclusively reserved for their use. Outside Notre Dame, they hope that their efforts will catch on at other universities. If not, they'd be happy to construct a new Web-site for another 
school. 
Bottom line -the Website is in the hands of tho stu­dents. Ii is what the student body makes it. Frank, Andy and Nick have set the benchmark in terms of S t 11 dent/Inter­net interac­tion. While all three are juniors and will return to Notre Dame for their senior years, they plan to keep 

NDTodav i.n the hands of Notre Dame students indefinitely. eventually pass­ing it on to worthy undertakers. As always, they and the site are open to the criticisms, suggestions and opin­ions of the students. 
A fascinating Website and Web experience, NDToday is a testament to Notre Dame students. Created by, maintained and popularized by Our Lady's student body, NDToday will continue to expand and improve upon its solid foundation. While Frank's personal quest for free beer for all students may never actually be achieved by the Website. it's that kind of determination and creative spirit that has forged an incredible concept known by its simple, yet fully explana­tiYe title -NDToday. 
Emmett Malloy contributed to this article. 

t:;;'.... 
,__.. 

r-.,,..
,._
. r,.._ 
~~Voi,t­
1-~ ....... 
!, ...r: 
Photo courtesy of 3bstudios 
are met by an updated, Hything from campus s. 
es -all in com­plete privacy. Furthermore, NDToday offers several other unique features, such as movie reviews, food guides, campus events, a message board, the local weather and links to literally dozens of other Websites. 
3bstudios enjoys working closely with stu­dents and with other businesses in an effort to provide the stu­dent body with discounts, coupons and entertainment resources. While definitely not an Internet bill­board, NDToday boasts some of the most sought after links on the internet. By accessing N'DToday, one 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Hampton gets off to rocky start, Mets fall to Padres 
Associated Press 
Matt Clement picked up where he left off last season for San Diego. The New York Mets are still waiting for Mike Hampton and their big bats to get started. 
Clement kept New York's offense in a slumber, allowing one run in six 2-3 effective innings, as the Padres heat the Mets 6-5 Thursday. spoil­ing Hampton's home debut. 
Hampton, the Mets' first legitimate ace since David Cone took over the title from Dwight Gooden in the early '90s. lost his second strnight start. 
After walking a career-high nine hatters in an opAning­day defeat to Chicago in Japan. Hampton (0-2) allowed four runs -two earned ­five hits and three walks in 5 2-3 innin!{s. He was 22-4 last year for Houston. 
New York, which began the game hitting .18S, had been hold scoreless for 15 innings before Edgardo Alfonzo walked with the bases loaded in the seventh. 
The Mets had hitless in 24 straight at-bats with runners in scoring position before Benny Agbayani's RBI doul:)le in the eighth. Todd Pratt added a three-run homer in the ninth. 
The Mets· struggles weren't limited to the plate. Henderson got thrown out jogging into second base and New York made two errors leading to three unearned runs. 
Ordonez, who set a record by not making an error in his final 100 games at shortstop last season, made his second in five games, throwing a ball into the stands behind first base in the sixth inning. 
The error led to two unearned runs as the Padres scored on an HBI single by Bret Boone and when Eric Owens scampered home from third base on a fly ball to Alfonzo about 20 feet onto the outfield grass. 
The Padres added three runs in the seventh. Phil Nevin hit an RBI double and scored when Owens' drive to right-center that fell between a divin!{ DHrek Bell and Hamilton for a triplC'. Bell's relay was off line and Owens scored on the error. drawing boos from the sparse crowd. 
Marlins 5, Giants 4 
Cliff Floyd hit a two-run homer with two out in the ninth inning and the Florida Marlins rallifid from a four­run deficit to beat the San Franr.isr.o Giants before a record-low turnout of just 7,741. 
Trailing 4-3. the Marlins led off tho ninth with a single by Kevin Millar against John Johnstone (1-1). Following a sacrifice and a foul out, Floyd hit the first pitch over the left-field scoreboard for his first homer. 
For the second time in 24 hours, the Marlins drew.the smallest home crowd in the franchise's eight-year history. But the victory avenged an 11-9 loss Wedne_sday night. when the Giants scored four times in the ninth. 
San Francisco squandered a strong outing by Joe Nathan, who had a career-high nine strikeouts in seven innings. He allowed just three hits and left for a pinch-hitter with a 4-1 lead. 
Florida failed to muster much offense against Nathan. Mark Kotsay, who lost the right-field job at the end of spring training, made his first 
start of the season and hit a itself as Meluskev doubled for lune hit off Durbin. In his solo homer in the fourth. only his third c·areer extra­major league debut at Detroit 
Florida scored twice with base hit and Tim Bogar ended last Sept. 26, Durbin allowed two out in the eighth on RBI the shutout bid with an RBI one hit in 2 1-3 scoreless singles by Preston Wilson and double down the left-field innings. pinch hitlcr Mark Smith, line. Toronto's Brad J-iulmer hit a 
Cordova's performance ~ two-run homer off reliever two hits, seven strikeouts, Brad Rigby in the ninth. 
Pirates 10, Astros 1 
three walks -may not have The Royals, who split their Francisco Cordova lost his been surprising considering four-game series against
no-hitter with one out in Lhe the opponent, since the right­Toronto, sent 13 men to the eighth, his shutout one batter 
hander is 6-2 lifetime against plate in the sixth. 
later. That didn't diminish 
the Astros. how he dominated the 
It was obvious from the 
Cardinals 13, Cubs 3

Houston Astros -again. 
start Thursdav that Cordova 
J.D. Drew hit two homr,Cordova, who teamed with had exr,ellent· movement on 

runs, including a grand slam,Ricardo Rincon for the only his pitches, even while walk­

as the St. Louis Cardinals

two-pitcher extra-inning no­
ing three in the first two 
hitter in major league history innings. I-le got Jeff Bagwell completed a dominating 
sweep of the Chirago Cubs.

iu 1997, kept Houston hitless 
to ground into a double play 
Pernando Tatis, Drew and

for 7 1-3 innings before yield­
to get out uf the first, then 
Mike Matheny homered in

ing two hits in the eighth eluded trouble in the second 
consecutive. at-bats in ainning of thP. Pittsburgh with the help of two heady 

seven-run third against KylePirates' win. 

plays by catcher Jason 
Farnsworth (0-1 ), with Tatis'

Brian Giles wen!. a carecr­Kendall. 
homer a three-run shot.

high 5-l'or-5 with two solo After Ken Caminiti walked, 
Drew, who didn't start tlrn

homers and a triple, missing 
Moises Alou bounced a ball in 
first two games as Eric Davisonly a double to hit for the front or the plate. He failed to 

played in right field, hit his

cycle. as the Pirates finally move out of the batter's box, 
first r.areer grand slam in a

won after being outscored 16-so Kendall alertly grabbed the five-run fourth that gave the5 in the first two games of the ball and tagged him out. 
Cardinals a 13-2 lead.

series. After a brief' argument,
Jose Silva pitched a The only disappointment of
score­
Daryle Ward walked. putting 
the day for Cardinals fans

less ninth after the Pi.rates 
runners on first and second 
came when Drew declined aopened a nine-run lead. 

with one out, before Meluskey 
curtain call despite sustained

The Astros had hit only two 
struck out. 
applause.

balls out of the infield and The Cubs, who opened lastdidn't have anything resem­week in Tokyo with a split
bling a hit off Cordova (1-0} Blue Jays 9, Royals 3 
against the New York Mets,

until rookie catcher Mitch Hookie Chad Durbin, mak­
were outscored 30-8 in the

Meluskey doubled off the cen­ing his first major league 
three-game series while get­

ter-field wall in the eighth. start, allowed just one hit in 
ting swept by the Cardinals

until then. the scenario six innings and Kansas City 
for the first time since Aug. 7­seemed eerily similar to the scored all nine of its runs in 

9, 1998. Garrett Stnphenson

Cordova-Rincon 10-inning no­the sixth inning as the Boyals limited Chicago to thre<1 runshittm of Julv 12, 1997, a 3-0 beat the Toronto Blue Jays. 
on four hits in seven innings,Pirates victo~-y ended by Mark Durbin (1-0) retired the side 

striking out five and walkingSmith's pinch-hit three-run in the first. second, fourth homer. and fifth innings. The 22 one. 

The Cardinals have home­Just as then, the Astros year-old right-hander, mak­red nine times in their firstwere the opponent and, just ing just his second major three games, none by Mark

as then, Chris Holt was the league appcaranni, walked 
McGwire. McGwire started foropposing pitcher. llolt lasted one and struck out two. 

the first time after sitting outfive innings Thursday, allow­Darrin Fletcher's first-pitch 

the first two games with a

ing Giles' two homers. homer leading off the bottom 
lower back strain and played

But history didn't repeat of the third was Toronto's 

five innings. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content withom issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Store Hours Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Mid Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat: Noon-6:00pm Sun: Noon-Mid Free Pick-Up & Delivery' Call 631-COPY We're open late so your order will be done on time! 
WANTED 
SUMMER JOB: Caregiver: two children, ages 7&8. Mon-Fri,7:3011-M-3:15PM. Jun 12-Aug 18 Granger. 272-6107 or 284-3485 
Seeking respomsible care giver for 2children Mon and/or Tues, 7:30-5:30. Transportation and references necessary. 
Caregiver, ,eded 2000-01 academic yr, 
Tues-Thurs, 5:45-7:45 for 2 young children. 631-7765. 
Transportation and references required. 
Teacher Wanted · ND/SMC fami­lies need teacher for next year to instruct children in home setting. Part-time position. Salary/vacation negotiable. Call 258-9707 
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT: ART 
EDUCATION ASST. For Snite 
Museum of Art Assist Education Curator with sum­mer youth art program focusing on museum objects and related hands­on activities. June 5th to July 28th, 10 hrs/week. Fine Arts major with exp. teaching and/or working with children pre­ferred. June 26th to July 28th additional Work Study hours -if eligible -with Nalional Youth Sports Program to make a total of 40 hours/wk if desired. PLUS room and board included June 26th to July 28th CALL education curator Shannon Masterson, 631-4435, ASAP 
CURATORIAL ASSISTANT: Wanted for Snite Museum of Art Work s\'Jdy is available 10-15 hrs/wk for 2000-01 school year. Responsibilities include scheduling tours and entering computer into. Fine Art& major with knowledge of FileMaker Pro and design programs preferred, but not necessary. Call curator of education Shannon Masterson at 631-4435 tor more 
into 
FOR RENT 
Large clean 2+ bedroom with base­ment and garage. Top floor of very clean duplex near ND. Ideal for sin­gle graduate student wanting space and convenience. $600/mo plus utilities, deposit 674-1670 
APARTMENT FOR SUMMER SUB­LEASE' College Park -2 bedrooms, furnished. Call 243-8194 B&B 287-4545 
NICE HOMES NORTH OF ND­GOOD AREA 277-3097 
RENT AL HOUSES FOR 4-6 STU­
DENTS WITH LARGE ROOMS. W&D. 291-2209 Ask for Dave 
NEED A PLACE TO STAY FOR THE SUMMER? 2 rooms avail., low rent. within a few blocks of campus. Completely furnished house. 
Please call Sam at 287-3006 or Ken at 4-3482 
2 bedroom, 2 bath apartment for lease during summer session. Close to campus, washer/dryer. Call Erin 4-4238 if interested. 
FOR SALE 
Like new, Man's 14K Yellow Gold 5 Diamond Wedding Band. Appraised $900. Best offer. 289-8509 
PERSONAL 
Need help with a proJect? Complete 
DESKTOP PUBLISHING 
services are available at THE COPY SHOP laFortune Student Center Call 631-COPY 
Laura, you can·t come in until you do the truffle shuffle 
Will, where is Fancy Bred? 
Attention St. Mary's students: do you consider yourself competitive? Like being part of a team? Can you throw, run or jump? Have you ever considereed joining Stam! Mary's Track and Field? The Saint Mary's Track and Field team is in need of dedicated individ­uals for the 2000 season. There's still time. No experience necessary. Stop by Angela and talk to Coach Ski or Dave. 
Fax it fast! Fax it fast! Fax it fastl Sending & Receiving THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-3291 
Sometimes I think the surest sign 
that intelligent life exists elsewhere in the universe is that none of it has tried to contact us. 
-The Sin Nott 
Chubby Rain can't you 1ust "hook da sistah up?" i don"! know if you can keep getting classit,ed love now 
ck· It must be something about short hair 
hey roomie ­should we ti:lke our moms on a movies 14 lot stake out this weekend? 
Mom McCarthy: Welcome to SMC! I'm so glad you are hereI I love you! 
l , 
MB­llove you. Yours, Gavin Bush. 
Bryan Lindenwood is awesome. 
Bitter .. 
We're Independent! 
Meirose Congratulations on your thesis. The Mets lost again. Love, Rey Ordonez (E-6) 
Everyone knows the Red Sox are better. 
Circle gang where are you? 
I miss you. 
I haven't seen you in days. 
M-Death -what's the deal with the wrist? Really. was it necessary? And 1hope you're telling everyone it happened while you were playing soccer. 
Only I and the cut ER doctor know the truth 
Oh wait -so does your whole team, doesn't it? 
So sad. How embarassing. 
Thank you for the flowers They are beautiful. 
Plus they make the room smell nice which is an added bonus. 
you know you want to laugh. 
Tambre, We miss you. All three of us .. er ... make that four now. 
oh wait -you haven't met edna ­
114'1 
you will soon enough. Dear Lora, Why don't you call me anymore? I thought you liked me. 
Love. Marco Christina. 
Next weekend -very fun! can't 
wait! Happy birthday (one day late) Nikki! 
parking tickets donkey balls how can anyone be respected in 
that hunk of junk? almost done yep -getting there not enough memory lisa marie p -can you read this? 
292 ROCK rocks or at least likes to touch rocks. but hey that's cool too. wow the end that's it 
goodnight 


Friday, April 7, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
...
JUNIORS' SWIM SEPARATES 
PICK YOUR FAVORITE PIECES TO CREATE THE PERFECT SUIT 


JANTZEN HIIPPIE HAWAIIAN COLLECTION 
TRIANGLE TOP. $31 HALTER TOP. $31 BOY-LEG BOTTOMS. $31 SCOOP BOTTOMS, $25 
ESPRIT CRACKLE PINEAPPLE COLLECTION 
TANKINI, $36 SKIRT WITH BRIEF, $34 UNDERWIRE TOP, $52 TRIANGLE TOP, $36 BOY-LEG BOTTOMS. $38 SCOOP BOTTOMS. $32 SIDE-TIE BIKINI BOTTOMS, $34 
REBEL BEACH TRESTLES TRAIL COLLECTION 
TUBE TOP. $38 TRIANGLE TOP. $32 SCOOP BOTTOMS. $28 FRENCH SCOOP BOTTOMS. $32 

THIS IS WHERE IT GETS GOOD 


Irish 
continued from page 28 
the final two innings to earn his first career save. "We're going to need depth
-
in our staff in r1>gards to winning the conference championship." Mainicri said. "It's v0ry encouraging to see a number of pitchers pitching well." 
Porzel went 3-5 in the game to lead tbe offense while sophomore cPnter fielder Steve Slanley added two hits and scored two runs. 
The 20-6 Irish now prepare to take on the Boston CollegP Golden Eagles. who visit Eck Stadium for three Big East conference games this week­end. 
Rapidly improving aJter a 1-5 start to the season, the Eagles are riding a five-game winning strnak. including a three-game sweep of Villanova last weekend. 
"We have a lot of respect for Boston College," '.'vtainieri said. "They're a tremendous­ly well-coached team. They're going to come in here all firf>d up." 
Nolre Dame will start pre­season All-American Heilman in the first game of Saturday's double-header. 
Heilman, coming off of a hard-fought victory over Connecticut last Saturdav, is 5-1 on the year with a 1. 70 earned-run average. 
Cavey starts the second game and will be looking for his fourth win of the season after a tough loss to the Huskies last weekend. 
On Sunday afternoon, freshman J.P Gagne will take the mound for the Irish, fol­lowing an impressive victory over Connecticut in which he allowed only two runs over seven innings. 
With three successful pitchers and an improving offense, the Irish couldn't be more confident. 
"We feel really comfort­able. We thought we had a really good weekend at Connecticut," Porzel said. "After swinging the bats as well as we have the last few days, we're excited about another Big East weekend." 
All three games will be· broadcast on the Internet at www.und.com as well as on WJVA 1580 AM. 
NHL 
Sabres' win moves team closer to playoffs 
Associated l'ress 
Dominik Hasek had 32 saves and the streaking Buffalo Sabres moved a little closer to a playoff berth by beating the struggling New Jersey Devils 5­0 on Thursday night. 
Doug Gilmour had three assists and Curtis Brown scomd twice as the Sabres won their third straight and seventh in eight games to remain tiecl with Ylontrcal for the eighth and final playoff berth in the Eastern Conference. 
Both teams have 83 points. although the Sabres have two games left, one more than Montreal. The Canadiens beat Tampa Hay 5-l on Thursday night. 
Carolina also has an outside shot at a playoff spot. The Hurricanes have 80 points with two games left in the regular season against expansion Atlanta. and so will need help. 
The loss was the second straight and fourth in six games for the Devils. They arc not only in danger of losing the lead in both the Eastern Conference and the Atlantic Division, but there is a chance they could slip to fifth in the conference and lose the home-ice advantage for the first round of the playoffs. 
Philadelphia's 3-1 victory over Atlanta on Thursday moved the Flvers into a first-place tie with ~ew Jersey in the conference and division with 101 points. The Flyers have a game in hand. New Jersey fin­ishes at home on Saturday against Florida, a game ,vhich could move the Panthers ahead if they won their final two games. 
Stu Barnes and Jason Woolley staked Buffalo to a 2-0 lead with special teams goals. 
Barnes got his 19th of the season with a short-handed 
period. Alexei Zhitnik set it up by chipping the puck past Claude Lemieux, who was play­ing his 1,000th career game. That gave Barnes a 2-on-1 break and he beat Martin Brodeur from the left circle. 
Gilmour then took over, set­ting up a power play goal by Woolley at 32 seconds of the second period with a great pass. 
Brown was also the beneficia­ry of the next two passes by Gilmour, a former Devil. Brown got his 21st a little loss than three minutes later with a backhand pass from along the boards and added his second at 
10:47 after taking another pass from Gilmour from the corner. Michael Peca closed out the scoring in close with 1:26 to go. 
The shutout was tho second in fivo days for Hasek, who blanked Montreal 2-0 011 Saturday. The Dominator, who is 14-6-4 since returning from a groin injury, bas three this sea­son and 45 in his career. 
llasek's best saves were a second-period breakaway stop against Lemieux and another in close on Alexander Mogilny in the first period. 
Islanders 2, Senators 1 
Rookie goaltender Stephen Valiquette stopped 45 shots. while Ylariusz Czcrkawski and Brad Isbister scored as the New York Islanders beat the Ottawa Senators. 
IsbistP-r broke a 1-1 tie with just more than eight minutes remaining and the Islanders hung on despite being outshot 46-13. New York won for the first time in its last six games (1-4-1 ). 
Ottawa, which has won only one of its last five, remained sixth in the Eastern Conference with 91 points. The Senators have two regu­lar-season games remaining. 
Valiquette is 2-0 in his career starts and the only goal he yielded was to rookie left­winger Petr Schastlivy at 1:39 of the third period on a power play. 
Czerkawski picked up a loose puck in the slot and scored his team-leading 32nd goal early in the first. Isbister converted Steve Webb's cen­Uiring pass with 8:18 lef't for the winner. 
Patrick Laliine was pulled in tho final minute in favor of an extra attacker, but Ottawa couldn't manage a shot on goal. 
Ottawa right wingflr Kevin Dineen left after the first period with an injury to his left shoul­der and did not return. 
Flyers 3, Thrashers 1 
Daymond Langkow snapped a second-period tic and Mark Hecchi added two assists to lift the Philadelphia Flyers over the Atlanta Thrashers, at the First Union Center. Philadelphia claimed a share nf the top spot in the Eastern Conference, tying New Jersev with 101 points. Philly has· two games remaining, while the Devils have one. 
Philadelphia has won three of its last four and closes the sea­son with games at home against Boston and at the New York Rangers. The Devils, who were shut out at home against Buffalo on Thursday, finish at home against Florida on Saturday. 
John Vanbiesbrouck finished with 20 saves for the Flyers, who won both sides of their recent home-and-home series with the Thrashers. Atlanta, which dropped a 5-3 decision at home against Philadelphia on Tuesday, is 1-8-1 in its last lO games. 
The Flvers took a 1-0 lead afler Keith Jones snapped the puck into the Atlanta nnt from the right slot at 8:16 of the first period. Petm-White provided the assist to give Jones his ninth goal. 
Atlanta knotted the score at 1-1 in the second stanza. as Andreas Karlsson sk'atcrl into the slot and unloaded a slap shot past Vanbiesbrouck, but Philly regained the lead about 3 1/2 minutes later. 
Langkow gaw) the Flyers a 2­1 edge at 9:21 in the middle period on a shot from the low right circle. 
He and Rocchi skated up the right side and used a nifty givc­and-go to get Atlanta goalie Norm Maracle off balance and Langkow beat him high with a backhander. ­


Attention Sophomores! Orders may now be placed for your class rings Orders may be placedfor your class ring beginning Monday, April 10th from 9:00a.m. to 10:00p.m.  
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE IN THE ECK CENTER 631-6316 Open Monday through Saturday, 9am ­1Opm Sunday, 11am ­1Opm  


Programming Contest 
Sunday, April 9 12 noon -3 p.m. Ist Floor Fitzpatrick Computer Cluster 
Languages C and C++ 
Sign up with a partner Send names, email addresses, team name to 
prijks@nd.edu 
Test your programn1ing skills 
Have fun Win prizes 
;;;::=====------======-------======--------=====~-----~----~-----~~~~~--­
Friday, April 7, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
Notre Dame, Butler match up in heated rivalry 

ing to play good team defense," Corrigan said. "(Goalie] Kirk Howe! is playing well and offensively we are starting to get the idea of what we have to do to be succ1;;1ssful. We need to control the ball and be selective 
in our opportunities that we choose to take." 
The Irish have won six of the last seven meetings with Butler and hope to take another step towards the tournament with a win in this in-state matr,h up. 
By STEVE KEPPEL 
Srom \Vrir,·1 
This Saturdav the Notre Danw nwn·s lacr,issP team will travPl to Indianapolis to play its second-straight Great Western Lacross(• League match as they take on tlw Butler Bulldogs. 
Tlw Irish are fresh off or a solid 1:~-4 victory over Ohio Stat<' and ar<' looking to improv,• to ii-:~ and wrap up the GVVI.L titln. 
Ir tlw Irish can pull off the win tlrny will have a good diarH'.f' to lw hea<lnd to their Pighth NC;\;\ tnurnament appParancc in the last nine vnars undPr head coach Kevin c:orrigan. . 
Last wcPk the Irish ended thPir two-game slump with tlwir win ovnr tho Buckeyes. 
GWl.l. player of the· week Tom (;JatzPI !Nl the Irish in the win. Glatz<'! (1t1d<\d tlw. dav with !ivP goals and two assisti tying his rarl'Pr high for goals and scoring in onP game. 
Glatzel 1,,ads tlin Irish with 
I(l goals and l'ivn assists; hn has 39 career goals and 19 assists in his two plus seasons at Notrn Dame. 
"Tommy !Glatzel] was crucial to thA victorv." said head coach Kevin Corrigan. "The way they playRd us, shutting off Dave Ulrich. it forced the ball to Tommy's hands and forced him 
to be in the position to get a lot of Lhe good shots. If he doesn't hit them it could have been a long day for us. He really kept the pressure on their goalie and th<m the other guys were doing a good job and 
"They know this is a big game. We have played to one-goat games with those guys the last two years so we are expecting to go down there and have to fight to the nail." 
Kevin Corrigan Irish head coach 
we were s1ilective in the shots we took and l think all of that added up to us having some success against them." 
The whole offf:nse in general was playing well. Notre Dame 
Saint Mary's College presents Tennesee Williams' play 

Thursday -Saturday, April 13 -15, 2000 at 8 p,m, 
S•inl M•ry'• Collq•
0
. MOREAU 
Sunday, April 16 at 2:30 p.m. ~ENTER.., 
FOR THE ARTS
Little Theatre NOTRE r1AME, ,N Fo; ticket information contact 284 4626 
the Saint Mary's College Box Office at • 
had five different goal scorers and also six others with at least one assist. 
The Irish attack hopes to con­tinue their tough play as they go up against Butler. 
'They know that this is a big game." Corrigan said. "We have played to one-goal games 
Fairfield, 
with these guys the last two years so we are expect­ing to go down there and have to fight them to the nail'' 
After losing five of their first six games Butler is hot off a two-game win streak with wins against Colgate and 
_ 
Butler is lead by senior 
attackman Mike Regan who 
has had seven goals in the past 
two games. "Butler is a different team than Ohio State." said Corrigan, "Ohio State wanted to slow down and play you six-on-six and Butler is totally the oppo­site. They like to pay at a f'ast tempo so we have belrn concentrating on how to not create the transition play. It is a completely dif­ferent challenge this 
To win this game and end the season on a high note the Irish arc going to have to repeat their solid performance of last week. 
Both the offense and defense will have to contin­ue to play a full 60 min­utes. 
"Right now we are start-
NOTRE DAME FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
;;z:t:~tf 
TIMBERLAKE 
Directed by Reginald Bain 
Thurs., April 13, 7:30 p.m. 
Fri.,April 14, 7:30 p.m. 
Sat., April 15; 7:30 p.m. 
Sun., April _16. 2:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved Seacs $9 Seniors $8 · All Students $6 

· Tickets m available a1· Lafortune Student Cll!lter Ticket Oilice MasterCard)nd Visa orders call 631-B128 
Please Recycle The Observer. 
THE MASTERS 
Paulsen shines with one-stroke lead as Woods falters 
Associared Press 
AUGUSTA. Ga. 
Somebody forgot to tell D1rnnis Paulson that Augusta National is tougher than ever. 
Tiger Woods knew all too well. 
On a day w h e n W o o d s made his first triple bogey in 541 holes and fin­i s h e ct behind two guys in their 60s, Paulson's maiden voyage in the Masters turned into a memorable 4-under 68 thal gave him a one-stroke lead over Tom Lehman. 
"Maybe lack of knowledge is better. not knowing how hard this course is supposed to be," said Paulson. a 37-year-old Californian whose biggest vic­tory came on the Nike Tour. 
Or maybe he jusL was too happy to be in the Masters to care. 
Paulson ran into. the same kind of trouble that stalle.d everyone else on a blustery day at Augusta, making a double bogey on No. 11. But he also had an eagle and five birdies that gave him the lead after the first round of the first major championship of the year. 
Lehman managed to avoid a train wreck until the end. Playing without a bogey for the first 17 holes. an amazing feat considering the tough new rough and always treacherous ,•,inds. he drove into the trees on the 18th and took double bogey to lose the lead. 
"If you avoid hitting shots that cost you ... that was the whole kev out there," said Lehman, tlrn Masters runner­up in 1994. "But I feel good about the round. It's a tremen­dous score in these conditions. I'm not going to let one blip on the radar screen bother me." 
Make that two blips for Woods, the prohibitive favorite to win his second green jacket. And he wasn't bothered, either. 
Even-par at the turn, Woods three-putted for double bogey on No. 10 and then made his 

first triple bogey since November on the par-3 12th, hitting into the water and then three-putting f'rom about 12 feet. 
He managed two birdks thP rest of the way for a 3-over 7 5, his worst score since the final round of the Masters last year. The last time Woods op1rned with a 75 at Augusta. he missed the cut. Ile was also a 20-vear-old amateur. 
"i think it's l'ine," said Woods, who now has gone nine straight rounds in the Masters without breaking 70. "It's not easy out there. Look at the scores. Look how many guys aren't under par." 
Look at Jack Nicklaus. 
Somebody also forgot to tell Nicklaus that a 60-ycar-old has no business trying to contend for a snventh green jackf't. I-If' made 15 straight pars in the more difficult. crusty afternoon conditions until he stumbled with a couple of bogeys and finished with a 74. 
Look at 63-ycar-old Tommy Aaron, who won llrn Masters two vears before Woods was born~ Aaron was 1 under with four holes to play and finished with a 72. 
"The best I've done the past several years is miss the cut by a stroke," Aaron said. 
Paulson and Lehman were the only players to break 70 on a day in which the new, expan­sive rough was far less a prob­1em than old, devilish winds that change direction on a moment's notice. 
Sergio Garcia, playing his first Masters as a professional. recovered from a double bogey on the par-3 sixth hole to finish at 70, tied with Steve Stricker. 
The group at 71 included Phil Mickelson, who two-putted for all three of his birdies, and former U.S. Open champion Steve Jones, who was at 5 under until he ran into huge problems in Amen Corner. 
Several others could have joined them. 
-Former Masters champion Craig Stadler was at 3 under until hitting two balls in the water on No. 15 and taking a quadruple-bogey 9. 
"I was lucky to hit the green the third time,"he said. -Two-time U.S. Open cham­ion Ernie Els was at 3 under 
until his group was put on the  Ballesteros 181) and  ruzzy  a nice kick around the bumpy  
clock on the 15th. He rushed a  Zoeller (82) were also among  hills guarding the Highth green.  
sand  werlge  into  the  15th  those who hart an 80 or worse.  "Every guy who played today  
green, went in Llrn waler for  Doug Fortl, playing in his 48th  got good breaks if he had  a  
double bogey, and let it gnaw  Masters, had a 94. At least he  gnod score," Paulson said.  
at him the rest of the wav.  shavod two strokes off last  Fuzzy Zoeller in  1979 was  
"You're in the lead ·in the  year's opening roulld.  the last of only three players to  
Masters and you've got some  None of this fazed Paulson.  win the Masters on their first  
idiot official telling you you're  The former winner of the  try. Paulson. while thrilled to  
out of' position,"Els said. "It's  National  Long  Driving  have the l1rnd al'ter 18 holes,  
ridir.ulous."  Championship isn't as  long as  wasn't about to lose his per­ 
It could have been worse.  he used to be, but he already  spective.  
Greg Norman, lookiug  to  rigured  out  one  secret  tu  "It could bn Urn Harn Door  
erase 20 years of burl  memo­ Augusta.  open  or  the Masters. It's tlrn  
ries in the Masters, had a  43  llo 11laynd the par 5s in 5  first  round."  he said.  "It's  
on  the bar,k nine and shot an  undnr.  including  a  15-foot  great. It's something I'll always  
80, his highest score ever at  eagle putt on thn second hole.  be able to say. But unless I  
Augusta.  Ile  also  picked  up  a  l'ew  play well for three  more days,  
Former  champions  Seve  breaks along the way. such as  who's going to care?"  
ounts • Gift Certificates • Guaranteed Satisfaction!  


For Your Best Tan Ever! What's Your Plan? Get a Fun Tan! 

We've kicked open the doors at the new FUN TAN University facility on the corner of 23 and Ironwood! Near Kinkos. FUN TAN brings you the newest innovations in designer tanning with beds and booths that deliver 40% more tanning rays than any other· bed on the market!! 
Why settle for less? 
272-7653 NEW University Lcx:ation State Road 23 & Ironwood 256-9656 Comer of Grape and McKinley 291-2000 Southland Plaza Ireland & Ironwood 

THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION NEEDS YOU TO WORK FOR REUNION' 2000! (June 7-11) 
EARN MONEY AND HAVE FUN AT THE SAME TIME. SHUTTLE FOLKS AROUND CAMPUS, REGISTER GUESTS IN THE DORMS,-CARE FOR CHILDREN AT THE 
CHILD  CARE  CENTER  OR  ASSIST  AT  REUNION  
HEADQUARTERS.  THERE  ARE  MANY  JOB  
OPPORTUNITIES AVAILABLE.  

APPLICATIONS AVAILAB~E AT STUDENT EMPLOYMENT (115 Main Building) OR THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 


(100 Eck Center). 
(RETURN APPLICATIONS TO THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BY FRIDAY. MAY 5.) 



FREE REFILL 
On Popcorn & Soft Onnks!
.. L SOUND 
HOWPLACE 16 
Just West of Main St. on Chi ewa • 299-6063 Students and Seniors s4_so Anytime 
. $4.50 All Shows Before 6 pm • Advan~~~c~E?tSales Available :J 6, : 
All Times fm· April 7-9 Only Saturday & Sunday Matinees in Brackets 
• Readl to Rumble (PG-13) Digital High Fidelity (R) Digital 
• · IILO 3:001 5:30 8:00 I0:25 (2:25] 5:00 7:50' 10:35 J2:20j -l:50 7:20 10:00 4No!>.hnw Silt. t\p11I X1h . Rult:.S ofEng~cmcnt (R) Digit.ii Final Destination (R) Digital 
' I IIOj 4.00 1.00 9.50 [2:401 5: 15 7:35 9;55 
. 
11 :50 4:40 7:40 10:30 Romeo !\lust Die (R) Digital 
: 
Road to El Domdo (PG) Digital [2:15] 4:55 NS 10:40 
I12:00 2: IOI 4:20 6:30 8:50 Erin Brock°'ich (R) Digit,d 
;
I12:40 2:451 5:05 7: 15 [2:001 4:50 7:55 I0:45 
· Kei!ping the Faith (PG-13) Hereon Earth (PG-lJ) Digital · 
SNEAK PRE\'/EW [I '.!:45 3:051 5:20 7:35 10: 15 
7:30 PM on S"t. April 81h only Odrr House kulcs (PG-13) Digit,11 Black and VVhite (R) Digital 11 :(X)j 3:50 6:40 9:25 I 12:30 2:501 5: 10 7:30 10'. IO American Heauty (R) Digit:il
Return to Me (PG-13) Digital I1:401 4:45 7:25 1o:os· j 1:301 4: IO 6:50 9:40 PriceofGlorv /PG-13) Digital 
: . The Skull~ (PG-13) Digiwl 9:10 . J 1 :45[ 4:30 7:JO 9:45 
------------·-· 
SCOTTSDALE 6 OHL y $1· • 00 All Shows Before 6pm
Everyone• Everyday 
Scottsdale Mall • 299"'6063 $1.50 All Evening Shows ;/ b. 
Stuart Littif (PG) Galax) Quest (I'{;) 
11 :201 4:00 6:40 9:m 11-101 4:40 7:fXl 9:30 Sixth Sense (PG-13) Sleepy Hollow <10 
II:501 4:20 7: IO '):50 II:40I 4:30 7:20 9:40 
· DowntoYou (PG-13) The Talented Mr. Ripley (R) [1:30[ 4:50 7:30 10:00 11:00J HO 8:IO 
Friday, April 7, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish look to stop 5-game slide with successful road trip 
BySARAH RYKOWSKI Sports \'('rite, 
Tlw Irish womBn's lacrosse tl•am has two chancrs this wrPk<'rHI to stop its losing strPak. which was slrt>tclJPd to a l'if'th ganw after a loss to Cl1orgetown on 'Wr,dnesday. 
"This w«•Pk is a tough wnrk for us." Irish !wad coach Tracv Coy,w suid. "We've been going through a dinicult phase... 
Notrt> Dame's women's lacrossP t<~mn travels first to face tlrn Connecticut Huskies on Saturday before competing against Boston College Eagles on Sunday. 
"We v.anl Lo win games this W<Wk(\lld," Coyne said. "As long as WP focus on the areas of our ganw wp'vn been talking about, tlw weakrrnss exposed in the ganrns against the nationally ranked teams, wo can be suc­cessful." 
The Irish are currently 3-S on the season, after winning their first three and dropping the last five in a row. Connecticut is a surprising 6-1 thus far after finishing up in 1999 4-10. Connecticut's single loss came against the Syracuse Orangcwomen. 
The Orangowomcn also defeated Notre DamP this soa­son 9-3 to start the Irish on their current skid. 
"We've been practicing really well." Coyne said. "Obviously it's not been tran ferring onto the field !in games]." 
This will be the second meet­ing between the Irish and the Hustkies. In the l'irst contest. the Irish came away victorious at home, defeating the Huskies 18-6. Lc1,el O'Shaughnessy had a career high six goals and 

three assists in that game. 
O'Shaughnessy's fel­low tri-captain this sea­son, Kathryn Perrella, scored four goals in the same game. 
{)'Shaughnessy led the Irish in scoring and points last year and leads them again this year in those same cate­gories. Her scoring streak reached 17 games before it was snapped in the Irish loss to Georgetown. 
Last week, Tara Durkin was ranked among the top 10 goalies in the NCAA. 
"Tara Durkin's been doing a good job," Coyne said. "[Wednesday] Angela Dixon played really well." 
Dixon had two goals and an assist in the 14­4 loss to Georgetown. 
The Huskies are led by sophomores Panrnla Lowie and Heather Lovins and junior defensnman Abby Morgan. 
Lowie had 33 goals and four assists to lead her team last season. Freshman goalie April Pollock has played in all contests for the Huskies. 
Bonnie Rosen is in her third year as head coach for Connecticut, with an overall record of 19-23. 



Jones 
continued from page 28 
tho end zone as Notrn Dame poured it on against Arizona State. Jones raised eyebrows as a player not only with remarkable talcn l. but a field savy not often seen in fresh­men. 
£le realizes hov,rnver. that he is among othHr talented tailbacks. and that the corn­petiti on between Im, To oy Fisher, and Terranc(~ !Inward for the starting role is one that will likely continuP through twn-a-days in August. 
"The coaches say it's wide opnn right now, betwHen me, Terrance, and Tony, and we're all three going out and working hard. doing the best we can, and whatever hap­pens happens," he said. 
One aspec1. of Jones' gamo lhal the coaches would like to see improve would be his blocking. particularly in pass protection. 
Last y!:'ar. Jones was a slaslwr with pknty nf moves, but was also smaller than the other tailbacks, something 

that he went into winter con­ditioning hoping to remedy. 
"I gained about 15 pounds, so that hnlps me with my pass blocking," he said. "That's one of the main things 1 had troubln with last year was pass protection, and now that I got that down it looks pretty good_" 
Wtrnther he starts or not, much will be expected of Jones in thn 2000 season. llt>ad coach Bob Davin has expressed an intent on run­ning the football morn, and with quarterback Arnaz Battle at the helm, the option will likely play a larger rolo in the offense. 
There has also been talk of Tony Fisher being inserted at fullback in some situations, a dncision that would be facili­tated by consistf111C,Y from Jones and Howanl. 
Add in his rnturn skills and it is plain to se11 that much of Notre Dame's offensive for­tunes are riding on the shoul­ders of No. 22. 
Nevertheless, Jones is pre­pared for the pressures of big­ti mc college f'ootball. In a way, he has been through it all already. 
llis brother, Thomas Jones, 
was a standout tailback at the University of Virginia in 1999. He finished third in the nation in rushing yards his senior season. 
Whih, Thomas heads to tlrn prol'essional ranks. Julius credits a considerabln amount of his success thus far to his relationship with his brother. 
"Me and my brother arc real close, .he's been through a lot, he pretty much knows what I'm going through right now, he's been them," .Jones s a id _ " I ta I k to h im 1w n r y night. lle's looking forward to the draf't, I am too. lle's real anxious about that and it's something he deserves, his time is coming right now." 
While notions of the NFL are a bit promature ror tho younger Jones. Urn 1'.om1rnr­isons to his hrotlrnr havn irrnvitably been madn, some­thing Julius hardly disagrnes with. 
"I can't really see any dif­ference. I watch his tapos, and it's basically the exact same running. The more and more I watch it, the more and more wo look tho same." 
That would suit Irish fans just fine. 
ATTENTION GRADUATING SENIORS!!!!! Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions is accepting applicants for the position of Admissions Counselor -As pai1 of the Undergraduate Admissions staff, the Counselor is expected to make an important contribution to the recruitment and selection ofthe freshman class by managing relations with the prospective applicants. their parents. high school personnel, and alumni in an assigned geographic area. -Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel, communications within the geographic area, assessment and evaluation of applications, and group/individual information sessions on campus. Additional responsibilities. including the possibility ofdiversity recruitment, will be assigned by the Director of External Operations and the Assistant Provost for Enrollment. -Candidates should possess a bachelor's deg.-ee and familiarity with all aspects of student life at Notre Dame. -Essential qualities include strong communication and organizational skills, enthusiasm, diplomacy. and the willingness to work long hours including many evenings and Saturday mornings. Preferred start date is July I, 2000 Apply with resume, cover letter, salary history and reference information by April 14, 2000 to: Admissions Counselor Job #0007-101 Department of Human Resources University ofNotre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556  

__ e something ·chest pain. 
-1 at the first warning sign. The faster 
better your chances of recovery. To learn 
American Heart ~ Association.V 
Fighting Heart Disease and Stroke 


Friday, April 7, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Notre Dame heads east to take on No. 16 William and Mary 

"It's definitely going to
ranknd Notre couditions for Danw will IH1ad come down t:o doubles. I the Irish will be cast Sunday lo think all ofour singles slightly more 
battl11 tlrn l bth­adverse as lhe
players are capable of
rankt>d William match will be and Mary beating theirs, but overall played outdoors on Tribal lands.
Trilw. both teams are equal."
Till' Irish ar1• Since East nxritHl about Coast weather llw prospP1·t ol' Becky Varnum is so unpre­facing a top Irish singles player dictable at this 

. Irish gear up to take on first ranked opponent in weeks 
By KEVIN BERCHOU 
Spons 'X'riter 
The rupcakes have bern drvnur~d. It's linully lime for thP main course. 
After a series of matches against weaker opponents, the Notre ·oame womcn·s tnnnis team is ready to take on a national contendPr in what should lw a valid test of tlrn squad's progress this Sf'ason. 
F o u r t f' <Hl t h ­
tt1lllll. For lhn last fr,w WP('ks. they bavc lw1:n abl!' to notch win afwr win without brnaking a sweat. Finally Notrn Dame will lw l(\Slml. 
"WP try to approach rwery match the samP." snnior captain Kelly Zalinski said. "But with this match then~ is some extra motivation." 
Whiln Notre I)ame enters the match not having played a nationally ranked opporwnt in nearly a month. William and Mary has faced a full slate of diffi­cult matches. 
The Tribe lost a close match to the third-ranked Deamon Deacons of Wakn Forest last weekend, and will takn on tlrn ninth-ranked Longhorns of 
'! .•-.~-"' 
. ·, 
.. -..=.·,
··_.;._~~L 
~ 
...., •:­
• < ~ 
M~· 
----.~-·::~:~~. 
;:·-·.-"-~~ ,•
~:r.~-:~t~ 
jJtti
. ~:; , ....., 
=.~:~-:"!'~""..
--~Jfl;
~· 
'.'.':i 
·~!.7 ~ 
,"'-!"-1._.·;,,..., .._....,.,, .....,'l ...,,,,,~_,.-•• ~-~~~----.i..--·~:,.~..,,..~............. -·i -~ 
~;~~t~~l~~Y%tt~~~~~~*~~~·ii?~~~f~t ·~ 
;:,~,~~poq-:o:r.-'by.:. :CeJde~rJrqs:~so~~'-! ,c,onril!!r.n .1/J;'.'..~~ . . Ca,~~pus ·~liiti,frr,: a.1,d Pa....: Ch.,..i.,ri 
NOIRE DAIVIE BASEB Il-usWEEK 

Saturday vs. Boston College (2) noon Sunday vs. Boston College noon 

.~:..;~:~ 
..,:;-;_, 
ct._:­
~€~ 
__ z. 
..,.-.. ·,.: 
.3ii1 
~;
'~,:~~J=··
·-;;----..;_;. 
...~--:",·: 
~:.";;; ... 
.. · Acoustic Guitarist 
... . . ,; / \ A'; 
_ ~, C,"'' . ,,c,.;;?°"~Y:~~t~ : 
Texas just prior to tangling with the Irish. 
Both squads are all too familiar with each other having met in the first round of the USTA/ITA 
National  Team Indoor  
Championships  in  
February.  

The Irish upset the then­higher ranked Tribe 5-2, taking four of six singles matches in addition to winning the doubles point. 
That match, however, to()k place inddors al a neutral site. On Sunday, 
time or vear. weather ~ould play a signifi­
cant factor. 
"Outdoor matches are always a struggle," Zalinski said. "They always depend on the weather." 
If the Irish are to com­plete a sweep of the Tribe, junior Michelle_ Dasso will SHANNON BENNETTfThe Observer be leading the effort. Top Irish singles player Michelle Dasso and her No. 14 squad will meet 16th-ranked William Dasso is playing arguably and Mary Sunday in one of Notre Dame's toughest matches yet. 
the best tennis of her career. and her match against the Tribe's Carlijn Buis will set the tone for the day. Buis has benn on a roll of 
late. 
She has risen from being her squad's No. 3 singles to consistently competing against the opponent's top player at the No. 1 sin g I e s level. 
S o p h o ­
The langu 
and mos 
literature, fas beauty and internati 
Learn fast: Contact: 
more Becky Varnum will play a key match against William and Mary's Delphine Troch in No. 2 singles. 
Troch played No. 1 singles in the team's first meeting, falling to Dasso in straight sets. 
It's highly probable that the match will be extremely close upon comple­tion of the singles portion of play, making the doubles competition as important as ever. 
"It's definitely going to come down to to doubles," Zalinksi said. "I think all of' our singles players are capable of beating theirs, but overall both teams are equal." 
Dasso and Varnum will battle the Tribe's top doubles pairing of' Buis and 
argest of rich natural 
rtunities 
tlirement in 2 semesters tue internship in Brazil ce Languages 
NOTRE DAME SOFTBALL 
Saturday vs. Rutgers 
10:00 am 

Sunday vs. Villanova 
11:00am 
Troch it what figures to be a huge match. The Dasso and Varnum cou­piing enters the match fresh off an upset win over Purdue's top doubles pairing. 
With both teams solid at No. 2 and No. 3 doubles, the match could very well hinge on the outcome of the top pairs match. 
Both teams have much to gain. A win by either team would mean a signifi­cant boost in the national rankings, which are as crucial as ever with the NCAA tournament looming right around the corner. 
"We've been really focused lately," Zalinski noted. "We'll be looking to keep that up." 
The sports department is looking for writers. If interested, please call 
1-4543. 

TRACK 
Irish set to pick up more NCAA qualifying bids 
and worn en·s track and field mances could improve as they By BRIAN BURKE teams head to Oxford, Ohio this face tougher competition Sports Writer weekend for the Miami Saturday. 
Invitational. While the Irish While· Notrn Dame collected a 
Coming off a Wl'ekend of exceeded expectations in last handful of NCM qualifying bids rewriting ~chool and lrack week's scoring moot, several two weeks ago at Arizona State records, the Notre Dame men's athletes believe the perJ'or-and Stanford. only junior Hyan Shay earned an automatic quali­fication (10,000 meters). With nothing guaranteod for thn pro­visional qualifiers, many of the top runnf)rs and jumpers for the Irish will look to meet the auto­matic standard or improve upon their provisional timr1 or dis­tance. That task may not be easy however, as tho forecast calls f'or rain an<l cold tcmpnra­turcs .in Oxfonl. 

Among those in tho hunt for the NCAA championships aro a trio of jumpers for tlw Irish. Soninr Marshaun Wost has already meet the provisional requiremont in tlw long jump but may have to improve upon thal mark to make Lile trip to nationals. Freshman Tameisha King has shownd plcnty of promiso in the long jump as well, and despite this bning her first collegiate season. qualifying !'or tho NCAA's has lwconrn a realistic goal. M1\1rnwhi I(•, two­ti me All .\merican Jcnnifor Engnlhardt looks to qualify in t.lw long jump. 
"ll' we get the right conditions, all of tlrnm arn capablo Inf quali­fying)." assistant coach Scott Winsor said. "Marshaun's much morn consistnn1; .lcnnv's about llw sanrn Ias last yea;· I. Wn 'vp lwnn working hard<ir in th<• WPight room, doing morn bounding. I think maylw if I lay off tlw workouts a hit slw 'II be firm." 
While tlrn men's 4x I 00-nwter rPlay broke the school n~c:ord by a considorable margii1 last wcrnknnd, Urn group now has a new objective: qualifying for tlw NCAA championships. 
"We should definitely get th1~ provisional time, maybe tlrn aut.ornat.ic" Travis DavPy, a member of the 4xl00 squad said. "If the competition's tlrnrn, we'll have it." 
Overall. the sprinters have hr.gun to hit their stride. and while this wnekend may not pn~­sent ideal conditions, sPvoral nwn and womon could Im c:m1­sidcrcd NCAA C'.,rndidatPs. 
"I think so far Wt\'rn running 
rPal wnll," assistant coaeh .John Millar said. "!Chris] Cochran has run raster than all last ypar; Travis Davny is running b~•twr. Tho guys wn'ro depending on have progrnssed real wPII, and I'm plnascd with that." 
"Delinitnly compPtition has a lot to do with it,'' King said. "Our team lwonwn sprinters] is small. but evnntually we can build it up to wlrnr,i we'll be gPtting to nationals." 
A handf'ul or Irish <listanc:P runners lrnv<~ notclwd provision­a I qualifying times. Luh Watson (3000 mewr stPPplP­chase). Antonio ArcP (5,000 metPrsl. Phil Mishka (800 meters), and Marr Striowski (10,000 nwtPrsl for tlw nwn and Allison KIPnHnPr for tlw women all look to f'urtlwr thdr c:ausP l'or tlw NCAA championships by improving upon tlwir provisional times. 
Anoth<'r notPworthy pPr­fornwr of latP on tlw woman·s team has h<'<'l1 sophomorP Dorn DPBartolo. DPBartolo addPd to hnr own school rPcord in tlw hamnrnr two wePks ago at Arizona St. with a throw or I 18 f'eet, I I indrns. 


Friday, April 7, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
DAVIS CUP 
Agassi, Sampras team up for first time since 1995 
Sampras, Davis Cup means team ever," Czech captain Jan 
Associated Pre5S 
something-this year. And that Kuka! said. 
means big trouble for Jiri Agassi has long answered the INGLEWOOD, Calif'. Novak and Slava Doscdel. call to play for his country in For Andn~ Agassi and Pete "We are playing the best Davis Cup, but some years, he 
Pangborn Hall Presents 
The Priee ~ is Right 

Saturday, April 8th Library Auditorium 
8:00 PM Chances: 1/$3 or 2/$5 
Win fabulous Prizes! Play Plink-a, Punch Out, Golf, and 
SPIN THE BIG WHEEL!!! 
*All profits benefit the Grace Community Center* 
hardly felt like part of a team. 
The U.S. Tennis Association was making decisions on mat• ters Agassi believed were best handled bv 
the players, including the choir,e of cap­tain and team doctor. 
"I just had no desire to pour so much 

energy into Agassisomething that was only yet again another match, another week, another time away from borne, from resting and getting ready for your big events," said Agassi, who didn't play last year. "It didn't mean anything." Sampras agreed, preferring to concentrate on maintaining 
his world l\"o. 1 ranking for six consecutive years while play­ing Davis Cup about every 
other yc,ar. 
"It was hard to stay No. I and play Davis Cup," he said Thursday. "It was a big com­mitment, and the times I've played Davis Cup over the years, I felt it hurt me a little bit." 
But the appointment of John McEnroe as captain last fall marked a turning point. Suddenly. the USTA was con­sulting the top American play­ers about who they wanted and what was important to them. They all agreed on putting McEnroe in charge. 
"The fact that we're now working as a team is what's inspiring, it's what makes it so special, it's why you want to be a part of it," Aga.:;si said. 
Agassj and Sampras, two of the world's top three players, are on the same Davis Cup team f"or the first time since 1995. They're joined by Jared Palmer and Alex O'Brien, who are among the world's best doubles teams. 
The heavi­


ly fllvored Americans take on the C z e c h Republic in a l.iest-of-5 quarterfinal beginning Friday on an 
indoor

Sampras 
hardcourt at the Forum. 
Sampras opens against No­vak. followed by Agassi against Dosedel. Sampras won his only other meeting with Novak, a five-setter at the 1996 U.S. Open. 
"I lost 6-4 in the fifth set in the U.S. Open. ll was a great match and I will try to play the same match tomorrow," Novak said. "I know he's very strong with the serve-and-volley, so I have to set him on the base­line." 
Agassi is 2-0 against Dosedel, having beaten him in three sets at last year's Australian Open. 
'Tll make a few phone calls tonight so he won't sleep that well," Dosed el said, laughing. "There is a good chance there." 
Saturday's doubles will pit Palmer and O'Brien against Novak and David Riki. although Kuka! has up to an hour before play begins to change his lineup. 
"I would be very happy when the match is not going to be decided on Saturday," Kuka! said. 
Sunday's reverse singles are scheduled to be Agassi · against Novak and Sampras ag,iinst Dosedel, although either team can make substitutions prior to the start of play. 

it's not for ~veryone,
but thatls. · · 
[th.e point]~ 
'Sure, Army ~o,c isn't a piece of cake. Afte~ aH, in here you'll pusfryotm,elf. Test your limits: Ahdln the process, develop skills .that'll last a lifetime•. Like hqwto Jhink1bri'yout feet and be a goo,d l.eader anq decision maker. You cou.ld eve~•,gefa scholarship,, Regist~ftqday for an Army,. · 
..-.·_ .. ,~t..:%.?¾:<·; .· ,_,:1/t··::_· .. •· _ . _..;<_, __ ' --::i_.i~,:r::-._:... _. "\. ·:::-,i=::::·»,._t.:'-_ '·----::<..:-._.:.:..._ :,/_:<;-:::.1:::=:w~-:'r · . ---.,.. -.:.,~·;;;3r··· 
ROrOJplass; '8eca'us.e you're· n,ot just like l'!;!veryon~/'..< , ·· · ,.··•;r>r• 
,:_:J/t·: ·,-:~~; ---·~.. --_ -··-·· · ..·~·-• ·:··:-.:-_ -_---•.•,.}?J~>r~t~~:::.: 
·. ..di '?{,fr 
:ARMY ~,5!.~C nlik~"'~~l' '"" · · · ·· ·· · ·. ·'W· 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 7, 2000 
SOFTBALL 
Belles split series with Knights 
Bv KAREN SCHAFF 
Sporrs Wrirer 
ThP Belles had a solid day V\'ednesday during thPir dou·­ble header at Calvin College. Saint Marf s losl lhc first game in eight innings Game 1 5-4. but 
Calvin 5 
came back 
Saint Mary's 4
strong for the second. Game 2 ga_me \Vin­
Saint Mary's 7
ning 7-4. 
Head coach Calvin 4 .lo<' Spny­broerk said he was going to focus 011 hit­ting and g:Htting the bats mov­ing and that's _just what tlrn Belles did. 
Trish Klockrrnr hit a solo hornerun in the first game while Katie Murphy added a triple. H.achel Deer also stole home to give the Relles another run. 
The second game highlight­ed more of thr~ Belles' power as Deer belted a three-run homerun. 
"We hit really well," said freshman caLcher Susan Kutz. "We started using th~~ bats a lot more this game." 
Defensively, the Belles were really solid. They pulled together to rectify the errors they had in their past games. 
After assistant coach Dave Martin expressed his disap­pointment with the team's emotion, the Belles showed they had heart. 
The team had a solid over-
ND looks to improve 
Big East record 
. Irish split doubleheader with Broncos 
Observer Staff Report 
Tho Notre Damn sol'tball team, currnntlv rankNI No. 
I in  th<1  NCAA  Northeast  
region,  
k i C of!'  ks its  Game 1  
week ­ Western Michigan 2  
e  n  d  Notre Dame 1  
comµn­t i ti O 11  Game 2  
against  Notre Dame 5  
11utgcrs Satur- Western Michigan O  
day and  

wraps up whn11 it nwnts Villanova at home Sunday. 
Th11 Irish, boasting their best rocord in the µrogarn's twclvo-ynar history is com­ing off a split double header with the Broncos of Western Michigan Thursday. 
Western Michigan, Irish head r,oach Liz Miller's alma mater, now stands at 5-16, after beating the Irish 2-1 in game one and falling 5-0 in game two. 
The Irish am looking to improve their 29-7 record with wins this weekend. Notre Dame will first face Rutgers in a doubleheader starting at 10 a.m. on Saturday. 
The Scarlet Knights are 10-9 overall and 1-3 in the 
Big East. Noln~ Damn canJP out on top last yPar in a doublnheadcr 4-2, 3-1. 
On Sunday at 11 a.m., Nolrn Dami) will l'acP Villanova. 
Tho Wildcats. who ti<'d f'or fourth place in tlw Big East last year. f'ailnd to score against tlw Irish in 1999. as thoy f<'ll Lo Notrn Damn ]-0 and 4-0. 
Notn• Danw currnntly has a 13-1 ovnrall history against Villanova. 
( IN[MAUI< IlllATl?ES 



all performance in the field. strength was shown in the 
"We played like we wanted Belles' near win in the first to win," said freshman out­game. fielder Katie Murphy. "We The game went into extra just played tough." innings after the Belles tied 
The team kept their heads the score in the top of the in the game the entire seventh. evening. Even while behind, "The team came ready to Saint Mary kept up their con­play," said Speybroeck. "We fidence while keeping their were really aggressive on errors to a minimum. This base." 
Know the Signs 

American Heart ~ Association®¥ 
Fighting Heart Disease and Stroke 
, 
The general warning signs for heart attack are: 
• 
Uncomfortable pressure, fullness, squeezing or pain in the center of the chest lasting more than a few minutes 

• 
Pain spreading to the shoulders, neck or arms 

• 
Chest discomfort with lightheadedness, fainting, sweating, nausea or shortness of breath 


©2000, American Heart Association 
Friday, April 8, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
TOM KEELEY
FOURTH AND INCHES 

BILL AMEND 
Fox TROT 

WHAT YES. WHAT
DENISE ASKED 1F I 
SU81EtT? SUSj(CT
COULD COME OVER 
CHEMISTRY? 
_I Wll.L "l'OV BE
AND HEl.P HER STIJD"I'. 
I 
I THINK IT'S NOT 
M"f MOM'S L1KE WE'l?E &ETTIN6 LYtN6. 

JEFF BEAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 
beam.1 @nd edu 



CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 Accept, but DOWN 1 Backyard item maybe unhappily 1 Many a 10 Woman of La 37 Get clobbered crop-duster Mancha 41 Optimal number 2 Prepares to 15 The earth's is of golf strokes remove largely iron 46 Noted bell 3 Grinds 16 Foucault's 'This ringer 4 Pursuit of satori Is Not " 47 PepsiCo product 
5 Metric measure 17 Ceres, for one 48 Persist 
6 Batting avgs,, 18 The sky, maybe 49 Literally, e.g. 19 Spanish article "injured" 7 "Fiddle-faddle!" 20 Exuviates 50 Kit 8 Gannon 22 Bygone money 51 Super Bowl University city XXV site
23 Long 9 Demond's ?O's 25Wage_ 56 Street wear? TV co-star 
28 "Rob Roy" star, 57 Circus prop 1 O Start to adjust? 
1995 60 Important 11 Co. formed in a crossing points 1958 merger
31 He played himself in 63 It might get you 12 1956 Literature "Being John a ride Nobelist Juan Malkovich" 64 Teflon, for one Ramon 33 Ancient ascetic 65 Wooer of 13 Having the 34 The gamut, in Merope, in myth characteristics retailing 66 Lags of both sexes 14 Figures watched at night?ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 21 Barricade 
Puzzle by WIiiiam S. Cotter
B E A R C U B P U P P I E S 24 Suffix with 
0 S B O R N E U N A L E R T Brooklyn 39 1950 nonfiction 54 Bygone TV host 59 Statler Bros. S Q U E E Z E S I B E R I A 26 Match, as a best seller broadcaster
55 Actor whose 
o u T I N G description 40 School subj. 
last name has
M 27 Coll. in Troy, 42 1977 "Gnomes" 61 Mutton serving
three letters of 
CH N.Y. best-selling his first -~Hc:--t-:0:--1 29 Discounted author Huygen 62 Like a popular 58 Fierce type, Beethoven
1-=-if=-1-,-+=+..,..,.'!" -,,+-,-+-,-ii--+--•111-,;.-1-A.,.+-,S,-l 30 Sitcom with Dick 43 Like some 
astrologically minuet
and Joanna flames D E 31 Slightly blue 44 Snide retort 32 Addition of sorts 45 Cousins of Answers to any three clues in this puule ..--:--r.o~w:"1 36 Succor houseflies are available by touch-tone phone: Y O D A 37 Addresses 52 Ticket sellers: 1-9J)0-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). ANNOY IT 
Abbr. Annual subscriptions are available for the N O T R E A L F E B R I L E 53 "Beetle Bailey" best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50
38 ~~i~~"r;,;: he G R O S S L Y F R E E Z E R fancied himself creator Walker years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIIS VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You DAY: Jackie Chan, David Frost, Fran­will get your point across and close cis Ford Coppola, Billie Holiday, that business deal you've been work­Ravi Shankar, James Garner ing on. A little celebration is in order. 
Happy Birthday: You must dedi­Arrange for a weekend jaunt with cate yourself to projects that will the one you love. 00000 make a difference to you as well as to UBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Don't others. You have strong values and sign anything unless you completely will do well in a position of leader­understand the rel;'ercussions.Jt is ship this year. Your enthusiastic man­best to hold tight and observewhat ner will inspire those you work with. everyone else is doing. Talk to those Your ability to use positive actions to with experience. 000 get ahead will earn you respect from SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Plea­your peers. Your numbers: 8, 12, 21, sure trips will lead to solid love con­'2:J,36,44 nections. You can mix business with 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): pleasure ifyou are willing to do a lit­Work hard and you will score big tle running around. Partnerships with the boss. Extra money can be formed today will be long-lasting yours if you put in some overtime. and fruitful. 000 Don't ask co-worketS for help. They SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. will only hold things up. 000 21): Take the plunge. Career changes 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You have been on your mind. Look will be somewliat emotional. Make around and see what life has to offer. yow.. plans early, or the person you You need a change. You may want to want to spend time with may be busy alter your geographical location. already. Romantic times can be yours 000 if you pick the right entertainment. CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 000 Reassure your lover that you care. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You Explain the reasons you are so busy may not be too sure what you want and make tentative plans to spend to do. Boredom has set in, and you time together when you complete need something with a little more the work that has consumed you. intrigue. Consider getting into your 00000 own business or take a creative AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): course.000 You will have to be careful whom 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Chil­you confide in. You are likely to tell dren will be a prime concern. You someone information that will get can make a difference if you are will­you in trouble with your mate. You ing to sacrifice some of your time. must avoid secret affairs or love Get involved in their interests and triangles. 00 help them if they need it. 0000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Expect care of any overdue bills or corre­opposition if you have been pushy spondence. You should plan to and a know-it-all. Back off or every­spend some time with relatives. You one will be avoiding you. Curl up will fall privy to some unusual infor­with a good book and stay out of mation. Take advantage of your trouble. Let others make their own good luck. 0000 mistakes. 00 
Birthday Baby: It will be hard for others to keep up with you. Your quick response and actions will dazzle some and astound others. You are a doer who insists on following the pa th that suits you best. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
~ 2000 Universal Press Syruiicate 
-----~--~--------------------------------------~-~-------~~--------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Ohserver is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester Name --------------------------­Address -------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
r-------­
t 
' 

Networking 
•Andre A_qassi teams up with 
Pete Sampras in the Davis 
Cup for the first time since 1fJ95­
page 25
PORTS 
page 28 OBS~RVER Friday, April 7, 2000 
-~----­


FOOTBALL 
Jones makes big strides on offense for Notre Dame 

By BRIAN BURKE 
Spnm \'IJ'riter 
When Julius Jones arrived on campus last August from his home in Big Stone Gap, Va., he was making a leap from one of the the smallest high school football teams in tht~ state to the most sto­ried collegti foo tbal I pro­gram in tlrn land. 
Going from a man among boys to fourth on the depth chart, it probably would not havn shocked too rnanv if this freshman were lwld 'out or game action for a yNtr as he east>d into the systnm. 
But Junes "eased" into tlrn sysl!im by rushing for 375 vards and thrPP touch­~lowns, averaging fivn yards per carry, catching thn!e passes for 90 yards, and amassing 798 return yards and one TD. 
So much for learning tlw ropes. 
"Anytime you comp from high school to college, that's a big transition," .Jones said. "Last year it took a whilP for me to get used lo it, but towards the end of llw year, I was pretty confident, and I got a lot of playing tinw, so that helped my confidence a loL" 
.Jones' knack for tlrn big play has made him one of the most exciting players on the Notre Dame roster. 
Whether it was a 67-yard punt return for a touchdown against Boston College. bringing the °Irish to within two points late in the fouth quarter, bouncing to the outside aganst an excellent Tennessee defense for a 29­yard burst, or vaulting into 
see JONES/page 22 

Irish find depth from underclassmen on pitching staff 
Duff struck out seven of the The Irish offense used a bal­continued his offensive ram­now." 
By NOAH AMST ADTER 
first eight IUPUI Jaguars he anced attack to push seven page, recording one hit and Senior catcher Matt Sports Writer 
faced, en route to a 7-3 victo­runs across scoring Nussbaum added two hits and ry. He finished with 10 strike­the plate. three runs. two runs batted in. 
Going into the season, Irish outs, tying Freshman "We're going to need Porzel's hit The victory over IUPUI baseball coach Paul Mainieri the record right fielder depth in our staffin extends his came a day after Notre Dame was unsure about the quality for most Brian Stavisky hitting posted an impressive 7-2 vic­
regards to winning the 
of his starting pitching behind strikeouts hit his team­streak to 12 tory over in-state rival returning standouts Aaron by a Notre leading sev­conference games. Valparaiso. Heilman and Scott Cavey. D a m e enth home ''I've been Laird gave .up just one hit
championship."
In two midweek victories pitcher at run to start seeing the and one earned run in five Wednesday, over Valparaiso, Eck Sta­off the scoring ball really innings. and Thursday over Indiana dium. in the first, Paul Mainieri well," Porzel lie also struck out five University-Purdue University D u f f stroking a 0-1 Irish head coach s a i d . Crusaders. at Indianapolis, freshman allowed pitch over the "During the Sophomore Matt Buchmeier Matt Laird and sophomore three runs right field season held Valparaiso scoreless for Drew Duff gave Mainier.i the in his six innings, and walked fonce. everyone's gonna get hot. I 
see IRISH/page 18

depth he was searching for. just two . Junior shortstop AlP.c Porzel just happen to be hot right 

Men's Golf Sofrball at Marshall Invirarional vs. Rutgers
3t 
Softball

SPORTS • 
Friday-Sunday Saturday, l l a.m. 
ar AlbionATA Women's Rowing ar William and Mary Tuesday, 3:30 p.m. Indiana Championships ~; Sunday, I 0:30 p.m. ar West Lafayette, Ind.
GLANCE • 
Saturday 





