
Wacky Web 
Can you pass the test? 
Check out reviews ofsure-fire Find out how you score on questions about 

Wednesday
homework distractoins. 
dfrersity at Notre Dame 
Scene . page 13 
Viewpoint . page 11 

SEPTEMBER 6, 2000 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIV NO. 11 


EPA: St. Joe River pollutes Lake Michigan 

By MOLLY McVOY St. M.iry's Editor 
,\ sludy by the Environmental Protection Agency will rPport that the St. Joseph River is contributing pollutants to LakP Michigan later this year, offir.ials from thr, EPA said this wed. 
ThP study Lah Michigan Mass Ralanre. founded in 'I 994. disrovt1rcd two toxins that are particularly prevalent in Lh1: rin~r. I ligh llwels or atrazine and trans-nonachlor rnmpnunds wen' found in the water. 
..St. Jop is one of' the two major contributors of' atrazinc," said GIPnn Warren. the technical lead for the project. 
J\trazine is thP most r.ommon herbiride used in the UnitPd States l'or corn and sorghum production. It is known to disrupt the endocrine system in humans and is rurrPntly being looked into as a cancer-causing agent. In one of the samplings of the river. atrazine was found at chroni1· toxicity lewis. At thesA levels. prolonged exposure to water from the river would effect human health. 
"[AtrazinPI is such a widelv used herbicide," said Ch1·istophrr Dunlap. an analytical chemistry professor at Saint Mary's. "Tlw fact that it is showing up in our rivers is scarv. 
Trans-nonachlor compounds wern used primarily as insPcticides in the middle part of this century. but have since been Pliminated from commercial use. Chlordane compounds. as trans-nonachlor compounds are also known. can disrupt the functioning of the endocrine sys­tom and r.auso vision and digestive problems. The study round that the St. Joseph Hiver and the Grand River were thr two biggest r.ontributors of trans-nonachlor com­pounds. 
In addition to the above compounds, the study also lookml into nwrcury deposits and PCBs. components of rubbPr and plastic products. in an effort to determine wlwn• they wcrt\ entering the lake. The data that is col­lected and analvzed will be used to bettrr understand how to rnduce thcso ·toxins. 
"If we want to reduce tho toxic contaminants entering the lake. we need to know where the main sources are," Warren said. "We need to know if they're coming from the air or if the rivers are the main sourr.e. We also need to know what rivers are the main source." 
The study found low levels of both Mercury and PCBs in the St. Joseph River. The reasons for higher levels of the atrazine and chlordane compounds are not completely understood. It is likely that the popularity of corn farming in the area contributes the levels of atrazine. The type of soil in the area may also be a factor. 
see EPAlpage 6 

HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Bush, Gore invited to 
speak at N.D. 
By MAUREEN SMITHE 
Assistant News Editor 
Continuing a tradition initiated by Father Theodore Hcsburgh in 1953. Notre Dame president Edward Malloy invited Democratic presidential nominee Al Gore and Republican presidential nominee George W. Bush to campus. offering the University as a forum for speeches and presentations. However. because of con­stantly changing schedules, both candi­dates have yet to accept or decline the invi­tation. 
Malloy believes the University is an ideal place for both to present their opinions. "It is a place where they can address a certain part of the electorate," Malloy said. "The chances are high that both will come to the campus." 
Malloy commented that if both candi­dates agreed to come, they would not have a debate. but rather the event would be in a forum setting. "There are certain cam­puses that have already submitted applica­tions to be sites of presidential debates. All that would happen here is one candidate at a time would give a presentation," he said. 
Depending on how and where their visits would be presented, Malloy said the speeches might be closed off to the general public to give as many Notre Dame stu­
see CANDIDATES/page 6 



New hall directors excited for jobs 
Le \1oyne College in Syracusr. After graduating
• New members of the Saint 
last year. she decided to come to Saint Mary'sMary's community hope to because it was so similar to the college she attended. While Saint Mary's is similar to her

make a difference in the 
undergraduate environment, she is looking for­campus's residential life ward to the challenges her new Job will bring. 
"l want Regina Hall to have a very fun and By BECKY REGALADO safe year and for the students in the hall to News Writer · grow as much as they can. not only intellectu­
ally but socially." Guerra said. When asked about her objectives for this
StudPnts will Pncounter many new faces 
whilP walking around the Saint Mary's campus year. Arzt said, "Onr, of my top priorities is to work with the TT.A's in the building and make
-two of which bPlong to the new hall direc­them a phenomenal staff."
tors. 
Carly Guerra, Hcgina hall director, and Arzt traveled a lot growing up. She spent her first two years of high
Christine Arzt. McCandlPss hall din~r­school in Turkev and the last two in Germany. She
tor. arc both bPginning 
"It's just a place l absolutely love 
thHir first year of work­recently graduated from ing at Saint Mary's. As and adore. Being here makes Saint Mary's in May of 
2000. Arzt is excited to
hall dirHtors. both 
me so happy."
CuPrra and Al'zt will he be working at the same 
school she attended.
rPsponsiblP for main­
Christine Arzt "H's just a placP l
taining-ordrr and safoty 
absolutely love and
within their dorm. Also, McCandless hall director 
adore," said Arzt
hall directors at Saint Mary's have the job of "Being here makes me 
so happy."
supervising thP rnsident advisors ( RA's), desk workers and night assis­Guerra made the move to Indiana by herself 
and is looking to build strong relationships
tants. 
with the students through her job. "If people
"If thPrn is Pver any problt>rns in the hall. 
are looking for a friend, come this way," shepeoplP rome to mr.." Guerra said of her job. 
said.
Gur.rra grew up in Utica, N.Y.. and attrnded 



page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, September 6, 2000 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Great group of guys 
A guy has to b1• prntty lucky to havf> room­mates likn mirw. 
Bill, Joe and Mike know nm, and thcy know that l tm1d to takc things far too seriously sometinws. Thankfully. I live with the three of' them. people who make life 
in O'N<!ill Ila!! a madhouse of diversion and zaniness. Their antics krnp me con­stantly guessing, but in thl' proc11ss. I'm finding that each day I not only have friends to share a room or 11at dinner with; I havn a trio ol' instructors from 


whom I can learn what life 

Jason Mcfarley
is all about. 
For 0110 thing, it's about bring snnsilivn to nach otlrnr's needs. 
Copy Editor

I remember th!' time when I rncPived a death Lhn•at ,1vPr tliP pl101rn. I ran't 1,,11 you how good it mad1\ me fop} to watch .Joi! bouncP around tlw room, riweling in thP l><'licl' that a d1iad roommate ·would guaran­tnn his gt>Uing straighl t\'s. Mind you. WC! had rPccntlv viewed llw movie "Dead Man on Campus," hut who's Lo say that such a rule ,won nxists at Notre Damr.? Anyway, leave it to .Joe to turn my crisis into his qtrnsl for acadrm­ic exc<'IIPncP. 
And how did MikP factor into that situation'? I scPm to recall him turnii1g off the lights in the room and playing the tlrnme song from the movie "llallowe!'n" on his computer. Call it set­ting tlw mood. 
Speaking of Mike, he's a daily lesson in sur­vival of the littcst. I!is hobbies include lifting weights -and lifting weights. But I'm pretty certain that lw ppm·.ils in classns between workout sessions. 
Trun, Im nnvcr has homew()rk, but Mike spends plenty of time devising solutions to our most pressing concerns. When the room feels like an icebox, for instance, Mike thinks it's too easy to turn off the air conditioning. Instead. he advises throwing on about four layers of cloth­ing and wrapping up in a blanket or two. And lrnrc's a style lip from Mike: Don't throw away those old T-shirts; cut off their sleeves and use them for headbands. 
Ah, but perhaps no two roommates are as stylish as .Joe and Bill. 
Joe is "playa, playa" chic. lle's the one who will approach a random female in the dining hall and tell her something like, "If you were a flower. I'd buy a dozen of you." 
"Even when I tell the truth, I lie," Joe admits. As a side note, Joe tolls girls all the time that he's good-looking and smart. 
Bill. on the other hand. has his own style. Ile sports tho khakis and polo shirt look, but don't mistakn him for some prep. Bill is the epitome or staying out late and sleeping in the next morning. When it comes to the small things ­and in some casns, even the important stuff ­Bill has introduced me to the "Forget It" mothod. tr I can't get my French homework d<mo, don't sweat it; forget it. 
In all seriousness, though, I'm grateful for the opportunity to live with this bunch of quirky guys. They're a complement to my eanrnsLness and cynicism. And even though they drivo me crazy from time to time, I can't imagiirn staying sane without them. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column arc those of the author and nol necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Laura Rompf  Laura Kelly  
Kdly Hager  Graphics  
Kifflin Turner  Karie Annis  
Sports  Production  
Kathleen O'Brien  Rachael Prorzman  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Lane Herrington  Meg Kroc:nc:r  

The Oh-,rver (USPS 599 2-4000) i, published Monday rhrough Friday tx.rep, during ex.J.m and vacation prriods. Tiu• Observer h, a member uf rhc A.,soc1,1trd Prrs!>. All rt'.'prod11ction ri1Z,hC;\ arc rc:.crvcd. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS  
Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  Saturday  
. Meeting: Faculty Senate,  . Seminar: "Latin  . Pep Rally: 7 p.m., .Joyce  . Game: Notrn Damn vs.  
7 p.m., Hoom 202, McKenna America Area Studies  Center.  Nebraska. 1:30 p.m.  
IJail.  Program Internship and  . Movie: "Tootsie," 8 and  . Mass: Basilica immndi­ 
. lecture: "Guadalupe:  Summer Resnarch  10:30 p.m., Delfartolo lO I  ately following football  
Prophet of a New Humanity," Experience 2000,"  5:30  game  
Virgil Elizondo. 7 p.m., Little  p.m., Hoom C-103,  . Mass: Stepan Cnntnr, 25  
Theater/Moreau Center,  Hesburgh Center 1hr  minutes aftl-lr football gamo  
Saint Mary's.  International Studies.  

OUTSIDE THE DOME Compiled Imm U-Wire reports 
Cornell students petition to get Labor Day off 
ITIIACA, N.Y. requesting that the Faculty Senate 
The pavement in front of Ives Hall "/ think it is hypocritical modify the Univ1ffsity calendar. dis­Monday read "Hespect Labor," as because they teach us to missing all classes on the national members of the Cornell Organization holiday, said COL!\ 1111irnbnr David
respect labor, yet the day
for Labor Action passed out fliers Unger. and encouraged Cornellians to add that is designated to "Hight now wo·re just seeing how their names to tlw chalk petition. respect labor we tho dnan reacts to today's actions," 
"Sturlents wen• showing their sup­Chimirnti said. "We'rn wnlid<m( that
don't respect. " 
port for having the day off for I.abor lrn'll be recrptivo to his studnnts' Day and showing respect for anyone requests, and lhat Wt)'II lw ublt) to -facultv, staff and students -Tanvee Mehra work out a plan togetlrnr." working tc1day. specifically at tlrn ILR "We would certainly consider a
student 

!School of Industrial and Labor change, and we would ·bn internsted H(!lations]," said Elizabeth Chimirmti, in hearing what the students have in prnsident of COLA. chalk petition, COLA has collected mind," Lawler said last weok. 
"I think it's hypocritical because 400 signatures on a writtr.n petition Henrik Dulloa, vice prcsid1rnt of tlrny teach us to respect labor, yet to present to ILR Dean Edward Cornr.11 University rnlations, the day that is designated to respect Lawler latr.r this week. The organi­explailrnd that New York state dic­labor we don't respect," said ILR stu­zation will ask if Lawler can grant tates a certain number of class days; dent Tanvee Mehra. ILH students and faculty a holiday if' Cornell takes Labor Day off, anoth­
Along with photographs of the for Labor Day and for his support in r.r day of classes must bn addml. 
GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY 
Strike leaves students stranded 
WASHINGTON D.C. 
The backlog of orders resulting from a strike at Verizon Communication has left many students and Foggy Bottom residents without phones for the begin­ning of the school year. Verizon, the nation's largest telecommunications employer, settled a strike last week by more than 86,000 employees that lasted 18 days in 12 eastern states and the District. The company is a con­glomeration of three communications companies -Bell Atlantic, Nynex and GTE -that merged this year. Residents of the newly-created Scholars' Village, a row of Georgn Washington University-owned townhouses on 22nd Street, have not had phone or Internet service since the beginning of the year. Service takes longer in townhouses because they require more wiring to com­plete voice and data connectivity, officials said. The Community Living and Learning Center, which handles on-campus housing, distributed cell phones to students living in the Scholars' Village to alleviate communication problems. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO 

Student activism led to dismissal 
BOULDER, Colo. 

A passing grade is a failing grade. Four equals five, sometimes. The grade on your official transcript isn't your real grade. The surreal, contradictory reasoning of oflicials who dismissod first-year student Shana Dodson from the University of Colorado Medical School last June would have made Kalka proud, according to Dodson's account. Dodson, a 23-year old who lives in Arvada, was dismissed by the medical school in Dnnver on June 14 on academic grounds. However, she claims the real reason for her dismissal is that she sought to stimulate discus­sion about the school's controversial "dog labs," exercis­es in which first-year students vivisect and kill scores of dogs each year to learn basic principles of human physi­ology. While Dodson admits her gradns could have boon better, she says her performance suffered partly because she was being intimidated and prosecuted by a student-run honor council, which accused and ultimately convicted her of unethical behavior in connection with her activities surrounding the dog labs. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Sept. 5. 
AccuWeath~r "torccast for davtimc conditions and hi'1h temncratures 

50s 

H L Tuesday ¢, 71 50 Wednesday ¢, 77 54 Thursday ~ 78 .57 
FRONTS:

80s f\. 
60s \_,...--' ~ ................

Friday ~ 77 56 
4:1 2000 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY
f-----:---------------------------­
Pres,ure: 

® © D D D D D D


Saturday ~ 76 57 
High Low Showers Rain T•atorm.s Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Atlanra 71 64 Las Vegas 91 70 Portland 74 53 Baltimore 74 52 Memphis 84 64 Sacramento 93 57 Boston 66 55 MIiwaukee 73 63 St. Louis 88 69

Q,Q.~qQ.Q ,!) ~ u 
Chicago 80 64 New York 70 . 57 Tampa 90 78
Showers T-storms Ram Flurries SiJoW Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press Graph,csNet 
Houston 95 74 Philadelphia n 56 Washington OC 75 54 
Wednesday, September 6, 2000 The Observer . NEWS 

Profs serve on new law school board 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Writer 
Two Notre Dame professors are serving on the board of governors for the Ave Maria Catholic law school that, once 
estn.blishrd, could be comparable to Notre Dame's law 1-,r,hool, said University law prof'Ps­sor Gerrard 
B1;,ad!ey. 


It s a Rice normal law sr.hool with a distinct mis­sion." said Bradley, a board member at thf' Ave Maria Law School. The school, located in Ann Arbor. Mich., differs from rnosl othflr law schools bv two characteristics: It is solely a school for law students (with­out other undergraduate or graduatfl programs of study) and it is also Catholic. 
With a fresh start. Ave Maria "has autonomy to be the kind of Catholic school it wants to be," said Rradlev. 
With classes beginning two weeks ago. the school will attempt to keep Catholic moral teachings at its founda­
' tion as it approaches the study of law. Bradley and law professor Charlie flier are helping to promote Ave Maria's desire to maintain its Catholic mission for graduate studies in law. 
"Most so-called Catholic law schools are secular," said Bradley. 
Also on the board are Congressman Henry llyde, archbishop of Oenver Charles Chaput. federal judge James Ryan, and representatives from Princeton University, Catholic University, Franciscan University of Stoubonvillo and South Texas CollAge of Law. The board of governors will serve as trustees to Ave Maria and help to steer the school toward the direction of being a well established Catholic law school. 
Bradley said that he is eager to lend a hand in a worthwhile project. "It's an opportunity to serve an insti­
Bradley said students inter­ested a Catholic law school will likely continue to apply to Notre Dame in higher num­bers than Ave Maria, but the new school will be attractive to many students as well. The advantages to attending Ave Maria, according to Bradley, include a less costly tuition. Although Notre Dame's tuition is just $300 more, the Ave Maria school is offering many scholarships. 
Because Ave ivlaria is not attached to a larger universi­ty, it has freedom in terms of curriculum and protecting its objectives as an institution. said Bradley. "It has a lot of independence to pursue its mission vigorously," he added. 
The university has received 
tution that takes vorv seriously its Cathrllic mission,'' s a i d Bradley. 
Currently, Ave Maria has 75 stu­dents in its first class. but is plan­ning to expand in enrollment 
"J don't think the Catholic faith is conservative or liberal, it's Catholic. It's not trying to be conservative, it's trying to be Catholic." 
Gerrard Bradley 
board member 

Ave Maria Law School 
some r.riti­cism for being pro­C at ho l i c and critics have called it an exam­ple of con­servatism, but Bradley said there is a differ­e n c e between conserva­tive views 
page 3 

Bush unveils ne-w prescription plan 
Associated Press 
ALLENTOWN, Pa. 

George W. Bush outlined a $158 billion prescription drug plan Tuesday that he said would offer senior citizens m o r e choices a n d quicker coverage than Al Gore's compet­i n g Medicare expan­sion. 
"Keeping the promise of Medicare and expanding it to inc:lude prescription drug c:ov­erage will be a priority of my administration," the Texas governor pledged at a high­rise senior citizens' residence. 
The Bush plan would fun­damentally restructure Medicare. forcing the govern­ment plan to compete with private plans for the first time. In contrast, Bush said Gore's $253 billion 10-year plan would provide "resources without reform." 
Gore, in turn, contended Bush's proposal would leave "millions of seniors without any prescription drug cover­age." He said Bush won't have the money for a major drug plan if he spends as much of the expected federal surplus as he has promised on a tax cut. 


Health care for the elderly has become a major issue of the presidential race. 
Medicare, the national health insurance program for the elderly, faces deepening financial problems over the next few decades as more and more baby boomers retire and join its rolls. 
Unlike Gore's plan. which would add a prescription­drug program to present Medicare coverage, Bush's program would give the elderly the option of selecting a drug plan either through Medicare or a priva.te provider. Payments would be higher if they picked a plan with more generous benefits. 
The elderly poor would have their prescriptions paid for in either case: those with more money would pay a pre­mium based on their income. All seniors would get some government assistance for buying drugs regardless of income. 
The Bush plan would give states $48 billion right away to help low-income seniors pay for drugs while the longer overhaul plan is being phased in. 
"This plan will help seniors much sooner than anything proposed by Al Gore," Bush said. 
until it reaches the first full three-year enrollment of about 225 students. There are six faculty members working at the school and the school plans to hire six more in the future. 
and Catholic principles. 
"I don't think the Catholic faith is conservative or liber­al, it's Catholic," said Bradley. "It's not trying to be conserv­ative, it's trying to be Catholic." 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME ANNUAL DRINKING WATER QUALITY REPORT CONSUMER CONFIDENCE REPORT 2000 The amendments to the 1996 Safe Drinking Water Act requires each public water supply to produce a water quality report titled the "Consumer Confidence Report" (CCR). Following is the University's report. The_ University's water svstem i.s <;>perated by Facilities Engineering. It is a privately . , Water Quality Dataowned public warer supply. The Umvers1ty s system provides water to the Umversity commum­Th~-ta~le, bel?w .lists the EP-".'-s regulated and unregulated contaminants detected in thety, the nearby CS.C. properties, an~ Holy Cross Community College. Questions regarding rhe Umvers1ty s drinking water durmg 1999. All of the contaminants are below allowable levels.sys~em or sampling results can be directed to Paul Kempf, Director of tJcilities, 102 Facilities Building, Notre Dame, IN, 46556, phone 219-631-6594 or Mike McCauslin Assistant ~ot included in the t.able are .the mo~e than 15~ other c?ntaminants including pesticides, herbi­Director, Risk Management and Safety, 636 Grace Hall, Notre Dame IN 46556 p1hone 219­odes, metals, synthenc orgamc chemicals, volanle orgamc chemicals and others which were test­631-5037. , ' ' ed and not detected. There are ~urrendy five wells servi:1E the water system. All are lo~ated on the campus proper. The water 1s drawn from deep aquifers that are adequately protected by substantial clay Regulated at point ofentry (well) barriers that serve to protect the groundwater supply. We cfo not believe that our source is vul­Highest level EPA's EPA's Source ofnerable to contamination. We _are als? .taking steps to ensure that our water source does not Substance Detected MCL MCLG's Range Contaminantbecome com~mmated and _are .m the 1!1mal stages ofwhat is known as a Wellhead Protection Nitrate (ppm) 4.0 ~ 10 (I.5-4.0) RunoffProgram. This .erogram assists 111 defining where the water supply comes from and methods to from fertilizer protect the aquifers from future contamination. use,+septic tanks, The sources ofdrinking water (both tap water and bottled) include rivers lakes streams natural deposits ponds, r~sef".oirs, springs, and wells. _As water travels over the surface of the lana'or th;ough th~ Nickel (ppm) 0.0034 0.1 0 (0.0009 ­Pipegrou~d, It dissolves naturallr-occumng minerals and, in some cases, radioactive material, and 0.0034) materials natural can pick up su_bstances r~sulnng from the presence ofanimals or from human activity. depositsDnnkmg water, including boctled water, may reasonably be expected to contain at least Regulated at point ofentry (well) Continued small amounts of some contaminants. The presence of contammants does not necessarilv indi­Highest level EPA's EPA's Source ofcate rhe water pos~s a health (sk. More i:1forrnation about contamina~ts and potentia!'health Substance Detected MCL MCLG's Ran~ Contaminantaffects can be obtamed by callmg the Environmental Protection Agency s Safe Drinking Water Gross alpha (pCi/L)7.9 rs= (0.1-.9) Nacur:allyHotline {l-800-426-4791). occurnngContamina~ts th.at might b~ expected to be in source water (untreated water) include: Gross beta (pCi/L) 9.6 15 0 (0-9.6) Decay of• M1crob1al contammants, sue~ as viruses and bacteria? which may come from natural and sey.age treatment plants, septic systems, agncultural livestock operations, and manmadewildlife. deposits• lmirganic conraminanrs, such as salts and me.rals, w~ich can be n~tural!y-occur Unregulated Substances nng or result from urban stormwater runoff, mdustnal or domestic wastewater Highest level EPA's EPA's Source ofdischa:ges, oil and gas produc.rion, mining or framing. Substance Detected MCL MCLG's Range Contaminant• Pest1C1des and herh1C1des, which may_ come from a variety ofsources such as Sodium (ppm) 49agriculture, urban srormwater runoff~ and residential uses. Regulated at the User tap• Organic_chemical comaminan~s, incl~ding synthetic and volatile organic chemi Highest level EPA's EPA's Source ofcals, which are by-r.roducts of11:-dusmal processes and petroleum production, Substance Detected MCL MCLG's Range Contaminantand_can also come from gas st~tJOns, urban stormwater ~noff, and septic system~. Copper (ppb) 280 1300 1300 (l.1-280)Corrosion of• Rad,oacnve contaminants, wh 1ch can be naturally-occurnng or be the result of01I 90th percentile plumbingand gas production and mining activities. ,')'stemsSom<: people may be more vul!1erable to contaminants in drinking water than the gen­Lead (ppb) 6.8 15 0 ( <0.5-6.8)Corrosion oferal popubnon. lmmuno-comprom1sed persons such as persons witli cancer undergoing 90th percentile plumbingchem<;>therapy, persons_ who have undergone organ transpfants, people with HIV/AIDS or systems~ther 1_mmune system disorders, som.e elderly, and infants can be particularly at risk from infec­Definitionstions. fhese p~ople should seek a.dv1ce abour drinking w.ater from their health care providers. •MCL ­Maximum contaminant level (MCl,). The highest level of contaminant that isEPA/~DC guidelines ?n appropnat~ means to lessen the risk of infection by Crypcosporidium allowed in drinking water. and rn1crobial concam111ants are available from the Safe Drinking Water Hotline (l-800-426­•MCLG -Maximum contaminant level goal (MCLG). The level of a contaminant at which4791). there 1s no known or expected health risk.Infants and young children .are typically more vulnerable to lead in drinking water than •ppm ­Parts per million. th~ general populat\on. In ge.ne:al, '1ou flush rc:mr cold tap until the water gets as cold as it is •ppb ­Parts per billion. gomg to g.ct, you will have <:lmm:ate tht:_potent1al metal concentration. Additional informa­•90rh Percentile ­90% ofthe samples were below the number listed. uon 1s available from the Safe Onnking Water Hotline (1-800-426-4791 ). -pCi/L -Picocuries per l_iterWe have tested for over 150 P.arameters regulated bv the EPA and the St~te oflndiana. Sine~ 1 ~93, th~ Umvers1ty has been granted a standardized Monitoring Framework (SMF 1),Included m these rests were metals, volatile organics, pesticides, herbicides, SOC's and cyanide. monnormg waiver. Due to the high quality of the water, the monitoring frequencies are signif­icantly reduced.  

page 4 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wcclncscby, Sep1e1nhcr h, 2000 
CLUBS AND HALL REPS... 
IT'S TIME FOR VENDOR FAIR! 
This is your opportunity to meet with 20 ofthe hottest vendors in town! 
Representativesfrom t-shirt companies, travel, printing, photographers, DJ's and other companies will be in attendance marketing their services to your group. 
Book a DJ, Plan your dance, Order a shirt ... 

5:30Plf-1:30PM 1a1onun11Ballroom 
IREEIIID! LITSIIPRIIES! TINSIICOil STUii! 
And/or all ofyou who are dance/social con1missioners and need to get trained in food service certification (a.k.a. ll'OW TO PLANA PARTI'), Food Service Training will be offered at 5:00 PM in Montgomery Theater. 
DON'TBE LATE! 

ATION 
Wednesday, St'ptember 6, 2000 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Arnfat to prevent statehood: Yasscr i\rafat must bring rral gains from meetings with Pr11sidcnt Clinton in New York if' he wants to drlay a Srpt. 13 d<-1adline for statr,­hood, said senior l'ali\stinian offir.ial Sfdim l.anoun. Tlw body ncnds at least two promis­t>s bdorc' it would put off declaration of a slatc·. imid Zunoun. First, Israel v.ould have to prornisP to hand ovPr West Bank t.rrritory. and sc•r.ond. lh.-UnitPd States and Israel would havt> to ,tgrt•r to allrn'\· thP PalPstinians to sN up Llwir staL•' bv Llw rm.I of this yPar. 
China warns Taiwaneese leader: 
China lwapPd nPw r.ritirism on Taiwan's IPadt'r Ttwsclay arn.l warnrd that his rc>l'usal lo b1\nd to Bt>ijing's dPmands could [pad to 01wn confli<~t. Art.Pr morr. t.han 100 days in tilTicP, Ch<'n Shui-bian has movr.d f'urthnr toward formal indnpPnd1\ll('.C for Taiwan and a,rny from 13f'ijing's goal or unificalio11, said !'.hang Mingqing, spokP.sman for tlw CPntral Of!in· for Taiwan Affairs. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. postpones missile defense: 
Tht> l'Pntagon will probably postpone tho nPxl t!~st ol' its national missile defense so thal offkials rnn more fully analyze the last tPst's failurP. officials said Tuesday. ThP PXfWdPd d1day until .January is not dirertly linkt>d Lo l'rnsident Clinton's decision last wc·ek Lo abandon a 2005 target date for dP.p!oying a national missile defense. Air ForrP l.L. Col. Rick Lehner said. 
Haiti may face sanctions: The Clinton administration vowed to impose er,o­no m ir. sanctions against Haiti unless it strnngthPns dcmocratir procedures before prnsidenlial and kgislative eler,tions set for Novi,mbcr 26. ThP warning was issued by Luis Laurndo. U.S. ambassador to the Organization of i\mcriran States. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEF 
Bush speaks at fundraiser: 
HPpublican candidates lined up speaking gigs and organizPrs put finishing touches on pn\parntions !"or Wednesday's sr.heduled visit by c;op prPsidential nominee George W. Bush. ll will rnst those attending a private l\mclraiscr Wcdnnsday afternoon $1,000 per pPrson for a chanrn to listen to Bush and see him up dos!'. The money will go to the Hnpublirnn National Committee. It was some­what unexpPrtcd that Bush would visit Indiana only two months before the Nov. 7 cl<\clion, sincn many Ilepublicans believe he alrnacly has thn statP won. 
Market Watch B/05 

Dow 
11,260.61 +21.83
]ONES 
Composite
Up: Same, Dovm: 

Volume,
1,626 531 

1~ 836,263,000 
AMEX: 957.98 +2.20 Nasdaq: 4143.18 -9l.l5 NYSE: 676.20 -1.38 S&P 500: 1507,08 -13.69 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SE.CURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE. 
INTELCIJRl'UNTC)  -ld4  -4 (>875  69.25  
WORLfJCO~I INC (WCOM)  -8.61  ·.l. l 675  .l.l.75  
DEl.l COMPUTER (OHL)  -09  -2.0(,25  41.00  
CISC< l SYSTEMS (CSCO)  -1.74  -2.%15  M.no  
GLOML CROS~ING (t~BLX)  -.01  -0050  .i5.12  

JAPAN 


Associated Press 

TOKYO 
The leaders of Russia and Japan pledged Tuesday to press on toward a peace treaty. despite failing to resolve a territorial dispute that has blocked a pact for more than five decades. 
Russian President Vladimir Putin and Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori ended two davs of talks without prog.ress over claims to four islands off northern Japan that Russia seized at the end of World War II. 
"It was all they could do to agree to continue peace treaty talks. giving us a glimpse of how far apart they are in their views," the national Yomiuri newspa­per said Tuesday. 
Despite hopes for signing a peace treaty this year, Putin backed off. "The important thing is not set­ting up a deadline, but that both countries have good faith," Putin said. 
Mori said: "We confirmed that we will continue nego­tiations for a peace treaty by resolving the issue [oil sovereignty over the four islands, based on all the negotiations in the past." 
The islands -known as the Kurils in Russia and the Northern Territories in Japan -have stood in the way of a peace treaty that would formally end more than 50 years of hostility. 
Moscow has not accepted Tokyo's suggestion of putting the islands under Japanese sovereignty while letting Russia continue to administer them. 
Tokyo stands firm against Moscow's earlier sugges­tion that they formally end their hostilities without resolving the island dis­pute. 
Pride and emotion are entwined in the territorial dispute. 
Russia is unwilling to relinquish its control over the islands because Russian leaders are hesi­tant to losing another piece of the former Soviet Union. Also, the islands are sur­rounded by rich fishing grounds. 
Tokyo still smarts from the forced evar,uation of 10,000 Japanese in 1945 when Russian soldiers took the islands. 
While Mori and Putin held talks Monday, right­wing extremists circled the meeting site in black sound trur,ks. blaring martial music and demanding the return ofthe islands. 
With little progress in the dispute over the islands, the two leaders turned their attention to improving relations by cooperating in regional security and eco­nomic matters. 
Putin emphasized that he wanted Tokyo and Moscow to tighten their strategic relationship and ensure stability in northeast Asia. 
The two sides signed agreements including a program on developing trade and economir, rela­tions. joint efforts to aid the economic development of the Kurils, cooperation in energy, Japanese assis­tance in dismantling Russian nuclear arsenals and strengthening coopera­tion between the two nations' border guards. 

North Korea halts talks at U.N. 
Associated Press 

UNITED NATIONS 
North Korea on Tuesday accused the United States of instigating an airport search of North Korean diplomats, including the country's No. 2 leader, who angrily called off participation in the U.N. Millennium summit and a New York meeting with the president of South Korea. 
The incident at the airport in Frankfurt. Germany, Monday will hurt lJ.S.-North Korean ties as well as slow reconciliation between the two Koreas. the North Korean ambassador to the United Nations. Li Ilyong Chol, said at a news con­ferencP. 
The decision of Kim Yong Nam, leader of the communist country's parliament, to cancel his trip to New York was one of the first set­backs to recent efforts by North and South Korea to do away with decades of antagonism. 
But there was no indication the Pyongyang government planned to halt its overall reconciliation policy. Also, Seoul officials view plans for North Korean leader Kim Jong II to visit South Korean President Kim Dae-jung in Seoul as far more 
important than the aborted New York meeting, 
The airport dispute was reminis­cent of other accusations by North Korea that were apparently aimed at disrupting the close tics between Seoul and its longtime ally, Washington, which keeps 37,000 troops in South Korea. 
"It's certainly an unfortunate incident we regret," White House spokesman Joe Lockhart said. "It was a rombination of unfamiliaritv with our procedures and I think some unfamiliarity on the part there with the delegation coming through." 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 6, 2000 
EPA 
continued from page 1 
"The concentrations may have to do with the geology of Urn soil in the arna," Dunlap said. "The St. Joe Hiver runs through a lot of' dunes. These sandy soils may contribute to a lC>t of run-off." 
Six yp,m; after the beginning of thn study, data collection is nearing complfition. The rrnd purpose or the study is to pro­ducn mudtils that will allow sci­m1tists to prPdict how effoctive tlwir attempts arc at reducing pollutants. The modeling will take an additional year to com­pin le, a<:cording to Warren. When the modeling is complete, them will be a better under­standing of where these toxins an• coming from, how they an! interacting with their environ­In<!n t. and what steps can be takcm to reduce or eliminate tlrnm. 
"The goal is to allow environ­mcntal managers to ask ques­tions about how effective their methods will bn," Warren said. "It's a way of prioritizing our efforts." 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI Saint Mary'• News Editor 

Soon Saint Mary's campus will bn ringing with the sounds of little belles -mem­bers of the new Belle Ringers kids' club formod to support Belles athletics. The program was the brainchild of athletic director Lynn Kachmarik, assistant athletic director Gretchen Hildebrandt and new head and assistant bas­kethal I coaches Suzanne Smith and Sherry Donnelly. 
"We've been toying with a couple of ideas as to how to gel the community involved," Kachmarik said. "They brain­stormed and came up with the idea." 
The Belle Ringers program is offered fur area K-8 stu­dents, giving them an oppor­tunity to get to know Saint Mary's athletes and become familiar with the different programs offered at the College. Participants receive a T-shirt to wnar to the games, 
-----·-=-=-=--:-::--=============================================================================== 

Candidates 
continued from page l 

dP11ts as possib!P the opportunity to wil­1wss history in tlw making. 
"! hopP that all of us can have a more nxtensivn inwrnst in the world around us," be said. "ll encourages the Notre Dame community lo get interested in political issues or tlw time." 
Club gives SMC athletes a chance to give back 
chances to meet the athletes against Kalamazoo volleyball and get autographs, and the same night at 6:30 p.m., opportunities to attend clinics volleyball against Hope on mn by Saint Mary's coaches Sept. 16 at 4 p.m., and soccer and athletes. They also get to again against Manchestor at 5 participate at the games. p.m. on Sept. 20. Students in kindergarten "Our goal is to be the best through fourth grade can women's athletic program in work as water assistants or the country," Kachmarik said. towel assistants at the games. "We're building to bo a strong 
Those in grades 5­8 can help shag balls or be bat girls or boys. 
"Since this is a Division III pro-

program. (This pro­gram] will
"It's another way for our 
give tho students to get involved in kids some­
the community." thing to 
strive for academ­
Lynn Kachmarik ically." athletic director Whiln a similar club already 
gram, they can get great exists at Notre Dam(J, exposure," Kachmarik said. Kachmarik believes both pro­"It's great for our students, grams arc separate and nec­because it's another way for essary. our students to get involved in "It goes both ways because the community." it's the best of both worlds," 
Games coming up that Kachmarik said. "We've got a members of the club can par­great Division I program next ticipate in include a home door. We can walk in and see soccer at 5 p.m. on Sept. 12 the best. Over here, you have 
Student government representatives agree with Malloy. "I think it's a great idea because Notre Oame is one of the leading institutions of higher learning in the country. We have a student body that takes an active interest. !laving both nominees here is an educational opportu­nity," said Jay Smith, student body chief of staff. 
Past elections have brought candidates to Notre Dame. In 1952, Republican Dwight Eisenhower and his Democratic 
opponent Adiai Stevenson spoke al the University, and in nearly every election since, candidates have made stops. Nominees including Hichard Nixon in 1956, Henry Cabot Lodge in 1960, William Miller in 1964, Edmund Muskie in 1968, Sargent Shriver in 1972, and running mates Jimmy Cart11r and Walter Mondale in 1976 have all included Notre Dame in their campaign tours. George Bush spoke at the University in 1988, fol­lowed by Bill Clinton in 1992. 
Division Ill, where th<~re 's a place for everyone. Each school has so many great things going on. I think it's so phenomenal that we am so different athlntically -we really can nnhancn each other." 
Kachmarik and Smith hopo that the existnnco of this club will help to further the con­nection between Saint Mary's athletics and th11 South Bend community. 
"We've distributed l1iers al every parochial school lin thn areal," Kachmarik said. 
The Bello Hingnrs program is part of' a large effort on tlw part of Saint Mary's to con­rn~ct with the local community and boost Saint Mary's pridn in athletics. 
"Everyone is not going to lw a Division I athlete," Kachmarik said. "In Division I, thn win-!os11 intensity is higher. The ro!,1 of Saint Mary's can be dif'fonint. This can open peopl<i's eyes, tell them 'There's a place for 
mo.'u 
I 

I 
Appalachia Sem.i:n.a.r 
Ii Ii 
1' 
THE SEMINAR 
• 
Service-learning through various sites in Appalachia, October 15-21, 2000 

• 
One credit Theology course 

• 
Involves orientation & follow-up classes 

• 
Past participants in Appalachia Serrrinar are encouraged to appply as Site Coordinators 

• 
Presents opportunity to work. laugh. & learn with others 


The Appalachia Sentinar during Fall and Spring break presents a unique service­learning opportunity. Students travel to a variety of sites in Appalachia which focus on issues concerning rural health care, the environment. vvomen. children, and housing construction. Through hands on work and person-to-person contacts, students experience the cultural richness of the area and begin to understand and analyze the social forces that influence the Appalachian people. 
APPLICATIONS 
Available at the Center for Social Concerns Due date: Thursday. September 7, 2000 10:00 run $40 deposit with application 
(non-refundable if accepted) 
INFORMATION NIGHT Monday, September 4, 7:30-8:00 pm @ CSC 
FURTHER INFORMATION 
Steve Recupero. Student Task Force Co-Chairperson. 634-1217 
Allison Reilly, Student Task Force Co-Chairperson. 243-1-842 
Center for Social Concerns, 63 1-5293 


Wednesday, September 6, 2000 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Castro visits United States, U.N. 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

With much security but little ranl'are. Cuban President Fidel Castro arrived in the United StatPs on Tuesday !'or the first time in five years for this week's U N Millennium Summit. 
Castro was s1rnn arriving in a black limousine at the Cuban Mission in midtown Manhattan shortly after 1 p.m. whnre he is to stay during the thrne-day summit. 
Cuban officials said Castro immediately went into a meet­ing with Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad. Ile then went to China's U.N. mission nearby for a meeting with Chinese President .Jiang Zemin. No details of either meeting were immediately available. 
Castro's arrival had not been announced and there were no protesters stationed nearby. 
But elsewhere in .\1anhattan. a prominent Cuban-American exile, Jose Basulto. met with Fl31 officials to file a report on the 1996 shootdown of two unarmed civilian airplanes belonging to Basulto's Miami· based Brothers to the Hescue organization. 
Basulto was in a separate 


aircraft that wasn't hit by Cuban MiGs in the shootdown, but four people on board the two aircraft were killed. 
"Our purpose is to file a report that lets the authorities know the perpetrator of the crime is now here in the city of New York," said Basulto's, attorney, Robert Villasante. 
He said there wasn't anv­thing preventing U.S. authori­ties from detaining and inter­rogating Castro and then determining that 1.ho Cuban leader doesn't enjoy diplomatic immunity. 
Castro arrived in the United States three months after win­ning a ma j or 
victory "A dictator who oppresses excluding over his him from a
people is someone who 
political dinner and
should be ostracized by
enemies concert. in this the United States." During that countrv trip, Castro with the blasted uni­
Rudolph Guiliani
return of lateral trade 
Mayor, New York City
6-year­embargoes, 
old Elian Gonzalez to Cuba. 
Elian was the subject of a protracted custody fight between his relatives in Miami. who fought to keep him in the United States. and his father and grandparents, who battled to have him returned to Cuba. 
The United States was oblig­ed to grant Castro a visa under a 1947 U.N. rule that requires the host country to grant visas to officials attending U.N. meetings. Castro last spoke in New York at the 50th anniver-

(()py SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center University of Notre Dame 
Phone 631-COPY 
Monday -Thursday: 7:30 am to Midnight Friday: 7:30 am to 7:00 pm Saturday: Noon to 6:00 pm • Sunday: Noon to Midnight 
V I I 


Cus er-Friendly! 
sary of the United Nations in 1995. 
Nevertheless, Sen. Jesse Helms, a Republican, demand­ed Friday that neither Castro nor any other high-ranking Cuban official be allowed in the country for the summit. 
New York Mayor Rudolph Guiliani criticized Castro in a speech to the Cuban American National Poundation in Miami on Thursday, saying "a dicta­tor (like Fidel Castro} who oppresses people is someone who should be ostracized by the United States." 
Giuliani snubbed the Cuban president in 1995 when he vis­
ited New 
York City, 
such as the 

U.S. sanc­tions against his country. His schedule for this trip has not been announced. 
This is Castro's fifth visit to the United States since the Cuban revolution in 1959. 
Castro's best-known American visit was in 1960, when he arrived as a 35-ycar­
oId revolutionary leader in power just one year. Castro stayed at a hotel in Harlem, 
and  Soviet  Premier  Nikita  
Khruschev  dropped  by  to  
introduce himself.  


We're the Friendliest ?k~9PY Shop in Town! 
1//)r->;,·)! i
;,;¥:9ui patronage is important to 
,,,,,t'-'"; /uf, 
us, here at The Copy Shop in the LaFortune Student Center. That's
... 
why''We never skimp on being _frje.i¥1Iy. Our customer service -
-_ ntatives will always greet nd help you in a kind and us manner. We're happy 
. Leaders hope to forge peace and end poverty 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 
Secretary-General Kofi Annan on Tuesday urged the kings, generals and presi­dents descending on New 
York for the U.N. Millenn­i u m Summit to use the unprece­dented meeting 

to forge Annan peace and e n d poverty in the 21st century. But some heads of state are expected to use the three days of speeches. discussions and meetings beginning 
Wednesday to push their own agendas -including those that are critical of the United 
States. 
In a taste of what may come, North Korea denounced the United States as a "rogue state" Tuesday, claiming the government was responsible for allegedly ordering the strip search of members of the delegation as they switched planes in Germany. The incident prompted Pyongyang to call off the summit trip by its No. 2 leader, who had been scheduled to meet South Korean President Kim Dae­jung. 
North Korea's U.N. Ambassador Li Hyong Chol warned that the humiliating security check could prove "quite expensive" for U.S.­North Korean relations, even though the State Department quickly said it deeply regret­ted the incident. 
Washington is also expected to come under fire from Cuban President Fidel Castro, who came to New York on Tuesdav for the first time in five years. He is expected to speak out against American domination of the United Nations in his five minutes on the podium Wednesday. 

www.CopyShopND.com
Satisfaction Guaranteed! 
Copyright 2000 • All Rights Reserved • 09/00 
Mellennium Summit begins today at U .N. 
to help you and offer you service with a genuine smile! 
High Volume Copying Color Copying, Scanning & Printing Binding/ Tabs/ Laminating/ Fax Service Newsletters I Reports / Business Cards Complete Desktop Publishing Service 
FREE PICK-UP & DELIVERY! Quality Copies, Quickly!"' 
Foreign Minister Felipe Perez Roque told a press con­ference in Havana last week that Cuba would lambast "the growing tendency of a small and powerful group of coun­tries" to violate the U.N. Charter and intervene militar­ily in member countries w~th­out Security Council approval -a reference to the U.S. ­led NATO bombing of Yugoslavia. 
The United States also can expect to get an earful from more friendly countries. 
Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin and Chinese President Jiang Zemin are likely to use the gathering to continue rallying international support against U.S. national missile defense plans. 
President Clinton's announcement last week that he would leave it to the next administration to decide whether and when to deploy such a system will certainly be welcomed by many leaders who have criticized the U.S. plans as a threat to 30 years of arms control treaties. 
But analysts have predicted that Jiang will use the summit -and a one-on-one meeting with Clinton -to pressure the United States to cancel the missile defense proposal alto­gether. Beijing fears that the anti-missile shields will ren­der useless its growing arse­nal of missiles and force China into a costly arms race. 
Jiang, however, will have his own controversies to deal with as members of the Falun Gong spiritual movement stage continuous demonstra­tions against the Chinese leader for Beijing's crack­down on the sect -part of the 91 demonstrations planned this week. 
About 400 Falun Gong members, some of them wearing T-shirts that read "Stop persecuting Falun Gong" held their meditation exercises Tuesday morning outside the Waldorf-Astoria hotel, where Jiang was host­ing a breakfast meeting with American media executives. 
"We're trying to rally Americans to try to do some­thing to help us," protester Gail H.achlin said. 
AREY• 
u10•• 
IOTlFYGU HAVEl'TTIU 
18UR FAMILY. 
www.shareyourlife.org 1-800-355-SHAAE 
m!J ~on o,ga,, &llosueOonatlon 
NOT!TOPUII ·DONCJTPIINT M'QotLOW.fOll 10 ONL'I'. ,.a ALTEll:tNO Of AD COUNCIL l"SA.i OrJ-,lT"1S111rl•lll61,.f...-OlO""•N.(tlUk-J.,,.._o-".,..,.._ uw~-Filffl1111M.-rf_.-, 121.11QJ4.12111.-r.1111-1'i1-J 

page 8 The Observer . CAMPAIGN 2000 Wednesday, September 6, 2000 
Gore prontises 'rainy-day' surplus savings for future 


COLUMBUS, Ohio commitment to fiscal responsibil­Nobel Prize winners and 294 an extra $300 billion worth of' cut for the wealthy that com­
Al Gori1 plodged TU<\sday "not ity by proposing a "surplus economists endorsing Bush's campaign promises -for tax pletely overwhelms the surplus." to ovnrshoot the mark" in bud­reserve fund" that would mean. economic plan. The ad was run­cuts or spending projects -for "People don't focus on the fact geting the expected fodrral sur­if' eleclrd. he would budget ning i'n rditions of the newspaper the opportunity to showcasr his that Bush is locking in a tax cut plus, promising to set $300 bil-according to conservative sur­distributed in key markets: St. commitment to debt reduction. before locking clown the sur~ lion in plus projections and seL aside Louis; Cincinnati: Cleveland: T h e plus," said rnsnrve in anything extra. Columbus. Ohio; Philadelphia; nation (; r e ~ casc today's Such a "rainy day fund," as Pittsburgh; Los Angeles and all can pay 'Tm asking for your Si Ill On, rosy projec­one adviser called it, could reach of Florida. off the Gore's
support on the fJasis of the
tions aren't $300 billion ovl'r the next "Al Gore busts tho budget, entire senior poli­rcalizl'd decarlc -the difference spends the surplus on bigger $3.5 tril­better. fairer. stronger economy cy adviser. tomorrow. between the Whitn House Ollir.e government and complicates the lion debt that we 're going to create Oncn Bush Tim vicn of Management and Budget's tax code by forcing people to held by C U t s
together."
prrsi ct en t, forecast of $1.9 trillion, Pxclud­hire accountants and lawvers to the pub­inr:onrn tax campaign­ing Social Sr,curity. and the figure out if they are the lucky lic by ratrs, if the ing at an old Congressional Budget Office's ones to lit into his targeted tax 2 0 1 2 Al Gore surplus plow f'actnry projection of$2.2 trillion. relief," Bush spokesman Oan u n d e r doesn't
presidential candidate 
that is now a high-tnch firm, cast Gore, en route to Cleveland, Bartlett said. Gore's mat<irialize, his agenda as forward-looking told reporters he is f'ocused on But White House economic scenario. Simon con­and bPgan to lay the ground­debt rndur.tion partly in order to policy chairman Grne Sperling, a he says. tinued, "Do work for what he hopes will be a maintain stock market confi­freelance adviser to Gore, said T h e we r<!ally lwa.d-lurning: economk address dence. the vice preside.nt's plan would other $2.2 trillion of the $5.7 tril­think he's going to try and rais11 Wt>dnPsdav in Ckveland. "In lhis day and time, when ensure the country doesn't go lion national debt is held by those rates back up?" 
Gore will spell out IO goals to productivity gains are at historic back to deficits and "painful Social Security and other trust Republicans on the Senate br. rcadwd in his administration, highs, we've got a lot better uses spending cuts" of Urn 1980s. funds. Budget Committee fired back. including cutting the poverty for America's capital than tying "The idea is not to allocate the Gore told workers cramming saying that Core's budgiit pro­raw and incri>asing the nation's it up in sterile government entire surplus under the prudent the lounge of' Resource. an posals would dip into Social savings and honrnownr,rship papPr,'' he added. view that there are unanticipat­Internet marketing company, he Security surplusns by up to $90(> rates, aides said. Hunning rnaLc The vice president planned ed evenLs in the future and you would "show how all of the billion over the nnxt decacln. Josrph LiPbPrman's goals also Wrdnrsday to· rPlease a volumi­should have an rxtra rnscrve pier,es fit togrther" within bal­Gore and most politicians of' both will b<' s,~t for increasing collr,gc nous budget document resem­that, if everything goes right, will anced budgets that would. unlike parties havr said they would not attendance and paying off the bling, as one aide described it. go toward extra debt rnd uction." Bush, pay off lhc debt and "not spend that popular program's nationaldrbl. thP doorstop-sized budgPt the Sperling said. overshoot the mark with a tax surpluses. 
'Tm not asking anyone to sup­port nw on the b,tsis of the er.on­
omy we have. I'm asking for your support on the basis of the bPtti-r. fairer. strongrr rconomy that we're going to create togel.lwr," (;ore said. 
In Llw ClPveland spPech. advis­11rs said. thn J)pmocratic prPsi­clPnlial nomin<~e will show his 
administration rnleases every year. 
Hepublican rival George W. Bush was bolstering his econom­ic pitch, too. planning to tout his tax-cut plan in Pennsylvania on Wednesday. 
The Bush rnmpaign also was buying a full-page ad in USA Today on Wednesday, with six 
The political point of Gore's economic pitch to make Bush look fiscally reckless for propos­ing to give back most of the fed­eral budget surplus over the next decade with his $1.3 trillion tax cut. 
Gore aides say the vice presi­dent is trading any political advantage he might gain from 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY FOOL 

THE CUSHWA CENTER 
FOR THE STUDY OF 
AMERICAN CATHOLICISM 
~--­

"To Protect Their Citizenshin: Constructing aCatholic Electorate in 1920s Providence" 
Evelyn Sterne 
Department of History University of Rhode lsJand 
Thursday, Septern ber 7, 2000 4: 15 p.rn. 21 7 DeBartolo Hall 
Visit The Observer Online. http://VvVJW. nd.edu/-­observer 
Basement: LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)631-4004 

Hours: 

Monday -Friday 12:30 -5:30 
Irish Gardens 
***Vase Sale all this week!!*** 
Vases: $2 -$7 
***Also, we have avariety of blue and gold flowers availiable.*** 
,1·,;,.• .-:. ••-• ,; 15 ' 1:·' ,,., ... •"' • • , 't • 'I: 'I' r 'I • t • , t • • • r I 'II , f t' t • , 11 • I I • I I t • • • -' I • -fl • 
Wednesday, September 6, 2000 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Montana reopens land to public
Federal judge forbids 
Associated Press 
drug test requirement 
Associated Press 
DETHOIT 

A fr,dcral judgP on Tuesday extended a temporary restraining order forbidding tho state from rrquiring drug testing for welfare recipients. 
The statr. last Ortober began i-cquiring welfare applicants in a handful of' Michigan communitir.s to pro­vido urinn samples for drug scrncning beforn they rould be considfn-cd for benefits. 
Undnr the rules of the state's pilot program, the drug tr.st n~sults wouldn't allcr.t arrnss to f<rod stamps and polic<' wouldn't be noti­find, but applirants who test­<'d positivP for drugs would be sr.nL lo treatment and could gradually losP. benel'its if' thr,y failed to go. 
U.S. Distrirl Judge Vir.loria Hoberts grantPd the original restraining order in November after a group of welfare recipients and the American Civil Liberties Union of Michigan argued that. the testing is unconstitu­tional. 
The ACLU has said the requirement is an "unreasun­a ble search" in violation of the Fourth Amendment. 
"In this instance, thr,rn is no indication of a concrete dan­gr,r to public safety which demands departure from the f7ourth Amendment's main rule and normal requirement of individualized suspidon," Roberts said Tuesday. 
The 1-'amily Independence Agency. which administers welfare in Michigan, will review the decision and decide how to proceed by the end of tlrn week. spokes­woman Karen Smith said. 
The drug testing program does not apply to Medicaid. disability, emergency or other state assistanr.e programs. 
HELENA, Mont. 

Millions of acres that had been closed in Montana becausP of wildfires were reopenPd to hikers and other outdoors enthusiasts Tuesdav, but the fire threat in the West was still far from over. 
Twenty-five large fires still burned on 645,079 acres in Montana alone Tuesdav, but rain and falling temperatures across the Northern Rockies had reduced the risk of those fires spreading, officials said. 
Nearly 20 million acres of public. state and private land had been closed in Montana, about one-l1fth of the state. 
For Mark Bisom, it meant that what· normally would have been a long weekend outdoor outing had been reduced to a lunchtime mountain-biking break in the Helena National Forest on Tuesdav. 
"It's just nice to have the trails open so you can go out during your lunch hour and 
take a break when it's a nice. sunny day," he said Tuesday. 
University of 
Ranch operator Jack Rich 
Notre Dame 

had closed his business Aug.
International 
11 and canceled a string of
Study Program 
reservations by about 50
in guests who w_ould have spent $1,500 each. "With this announcement to reopen, we were on the line waiting, like the Oklahoma land rush, to get going," he said. To date. 74,755 fires have burned nearly 6.6 million 
acres across the nation, an
INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA 
2001 -2002 ACA.DEAIIC YEAR 
INFOR:\'1:\TJONAL MEETI'.'iG Professor Hannelore Weber Campus Coordinator 
Thursday September 7, 2000 
4:30PM 

Room 217 DeBartolo 
Question5? ?--ireber. l 5~nd. edu App.llc1ttlon :ieadline 12/1/00 
1 drink= 1/2 oz. pure alcohol which is approximately 10 oz. of beer = 4 oz. wine = 1 oz. 80 proof liquor 
area nearly the size of In Idaho. a fire that has Massachusctts. On Tuesday, burned 200,000 ar.res in the 81 fires were burning on 1.5 Salmon-Challis· National million acres in Arkansas, Forest is exper.ted to he con­California, Idaho. Mississippi, tained by month's end, fire Nevada, South Dakota, Texas, officials said. Montana and Wyoming. In Texas. a fire northeast of 
The weather has brought Houston forced the evacua­its own problems for fire­tion of 92 homes, while fighters. In Idaho. many firp,­another north of Dallas figh tcrs are coming down burned nine houses and three with "camp crud." said E. barns. Lynn Burkett with the Meanwhile, on Capitol Hill, National Intcragency Fire some Republican senators Center. said Tuesday Some they would 
crews "It's just nice to have the examine 
a r e trails open so you can go whether the experi­Clinton admin­
out during your lunch hour 
encing istration was
and take a break when it's 
flu-like adequately s y mp -a nice sunny day." prepared for t o m s the wildfires caused and whether 
Mark Bisom
b y its policies put mo is -resident of Montana more publir. 
t u r e . 
C O I d , 
smoke and hard working con­ditions, Burkett said. Medical units are stationed at larger fires. 
Mudslides also have become a problem, said Pat Thrasher. information officer for an 181,700-acre romplex of fires in western Montana's Bitterroot Valley. Fires burned away so much of the forest floor's protective cov­ering that erosion is a prob­lem and mudslides have sent forest debris onto roadways, he said. 
Only part of the hard-hit Bitterroot National Forest reopened Tuesday, hut offi­cials said additional land may reopen on Wednesday. 
Make a Splash on Your 21st Daniella! Love, The Hungarian Fan Club 
A me,511ge frum PILLARS 
with Alcohol & Drug Education Jl l Lt Fortune Student Center Vni.,ersity of Notre Dame (219) 631,7970 hrq,://w,,.-w.nd,edu/-aldmv/ 
land at risk. 

Sen. Larry Craig, fl-Idaho, said he would hold hearings on the adminis­tration's role in the f1res in a subcommittee of the Senate Energy and Natural Resou.rces Committee. 
Agriculture Department Undersecretary Jim Lyons criticized the senators' stat­ments. "Politicizing the situa­tion and trying to turn it into a debate over administration policies is not conducive to our working together," he said. 
The Agriculture and Interior departments are expected to ask President Clinton to request roughly $1.2 billion for rnpairs and fire prevention. 

We love to watch you dance, And we love to hear you sing. 
You give us reasons to smile, A bunch of laughs you bring. 
We hope your day is the best, And we hope you have some fun. 
Cause it's the big one today -­MARC NUNO'S 21 !!! 
Happy Birthday Marc! 
We love you!!! 
--the Badin Boots 


VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

page 10 BSERVER Wednesday, September 6, 2000 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Bo, Q. Noue Dame. IN 46~56 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dome, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike C:on!lolly 

MANAGING EIJITOR 8l!SINE!iS MANAGER Nnrccn Gillespi,:-Tim Lane 
AssT, MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER Christine Kraly Brian Kessler 
Nr-:ws EDITOR: Anne Marie Mattingly VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lila Haughey SPORTS EDITOR: Kerry Smith SCENE EDITOR: Amanda Greco SAJNT MARY'S EDITOR: Molly McVoy l'HOTO EDITOR: Elizabeth Ling 
AHVERTISlNG MANAGER: Par Peters Ao DESIGN MANIIGER: Chris Avila SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Gunvillc WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adain Turner CoNTROLI.ER: Bob Woods GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jose Cuellar 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO.............631-7471 FAX............................................................631-6927 
Al>VERl'ISINC .................................631-6900/8840 
ohserver@darwin.cc.nd.cdu EDlfOR IN CHIEF.....................................63 l •4542 MANIIGING EDITORIAssr. ME.. ...... .........631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.........................................631-5313 NEWS.. .. . .. .. ........................................631-5323 
ob,erver.obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEwrOINT.. ...............................................631-5303 observer.vi=poinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS...... ........................................ 631-4 543 observer.spons. l@nd.edu 
SCENE....................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S...........................................631-4324 
observer.smc.1@nd.edu PHOTO.......... .........................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visir our Web sire at htrp:llobreroer.ndedu for daily updares ofcampus news, spom, feamres and opinion columns, as well as cmoom, rt"Views and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weathcer for up•to-the 

movies/music for 
min me forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe• 
and rates of prim ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

m meet the edimrs and 
Augttsr 19?9 
staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent. daily n=spaper pttblishe<l in prim ,rnd on line by rhe students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary', College. Edicorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the adminisrrarion ofeither instinuion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advenisemem< based on cement. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objeccively as possil,le. Unsigned edirorials represent rhe opinion of rhe majority nf the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, A,sistant Managing Editor and department edimrs. Commemaries, lerrers a11d columns presenr the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Obsc.-rver. 
Viewpoint space 1.1 available ro all readers. The free e1<prcssio11 of all opinions through lmers is encouraged. I.mm 10 1he Editor m1m be sig1ml and must include comae, information. 
Q11emom rtgflrdmg Ohsm,rr polidrs shm,ld b~ dirrct­,d10 1-.d,ror in Chit(Milu Connolly. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Protesting death as punishment 
Little did I know that this summer, while working and studying at Notre Dame, rwould have an eye-op~ning experience unrivaled by any other in my life. One night I sat down to watch the evening news and the reality of this story gripped me. 
On May 13, 1981, Bobby Lambert was murdered in a Safeway grocery store parking lot. There were eight crime scene witnesses who claimed to have seen the assailant that night. Only one of those eyewitnesses, Bernadine Skillern, identified a man named Gary Graham as the assailant. The crime happened at night, nearly 20 years ago and Ms. Skillern was 30 to 40 feet away and only saw the man she believed to be Gary Graham for two or three seconds. 
Mr. Graham claimed to be innocent, stating that he was miles away from the murder scene with up to four other peo­ple when it happened. There were no fingerprints and no other evidence what­soever that linked Gary Graham to the murder except the testimony of Ms. Skillern. Mr. Graham maintained his innocence until he uttered his last words, "You're murdering me tonight." 
Mr. Graham was executed in Texas this summer by lethal injection. I was shocked. How could this be allowed? What if he was innocent? 
Experts believe that at least 23 people who have been executed were indeed innocent. How can the U.S. tolerate the executions of innocent people'? More importantly, how many is too many? One? Ten? One hundred? I have always been opposed to capital punishment, but I had no idea how capricious and arbi­trary it is. I have never had a friend or family member murdered, so I can't even begin to fathom that kind of pain. But I do know that if I am ever mur­dered, l would not want my murderer executed. 
l began to do research and the infor­mation I found was unbelievable. I real­ized that I fell into the majority of people that is seriously misinformed about the death plmalty. Let me familiarize you vvith some of the most common miscon­ceptions that America harbors about capital punishment. 
First. most people believe that death row inmates that are actually executed must have committed the most heinous and brutal of crimes. In fact, most of the inmates that are killed are frequently the poorest and have histories of child abuse and emotional trauma. Ninety-nine per­cent of death row inmates are poor. They can't afford Johnny Cochran. They have to settle for minimal and often times weak defense. These lawyers can be extremely careless, too. (I've read reports of lawyers showing up to court drunk or sleeping through long periods of capital trials.) 
Also, it is painfully evident that capital punishment is racially biased. Not sur­prisingly, it is most frequently pursued in the southern states. (Louisiana, Georgia, Florida and Texas are known ·as the "Death Belt.") And especially in these states, death row inmates are black peo­ple with white victims. In fact, that holds true for nearly three quarters of the death row prisoners in Louisiana. White people with black victims are much more likely to receive a life sentence. 
Also, we are sadly mistaken if we let the government convince us that admin­istering death is "humane." I've read many reports of botched electrocutions that give detailed descriptions of charred skin and hair, flames shooting from the base of the spine and the temples and eyes being expelled from their sockets. 
The horror of lethal injection is also kept shamefully secret. Three shots are administered. The first shot paralyzes the muscles. This way, the face won't reflect that the internal organs are actu­ally going through armageddon and to the witnesses it looks "peaceful." 
People also tend to think that by exe­cuting criminals, we save the money of keeping them alive. In fact, it saves no money. Florida pays $51 million a year above what it would cost to punish all first degree murderers with life in prison without parole (according to the Palm Beach Post). The Committee of the California Legislature stated last year that, "Elimination of the death penalty would result in a net savings to the state of at least several tens of millions of dol­lars annually." And according to the Dallas morning news, in Texas a death 
penalty case costs an average of $2.3 
million, which is three times the cost of 
imprisoning someone in a single cell at 
the highest security level for 40 years. 

And perhaps most imporantly, statis· tics prove that the existence of' capital punishment does not deter crime in any way. Many proponents of the death penalty are quick to quote the "eye for an eye" verse in the Bible. But those same people are also unaware that the Bible condones death as acceptable pun­ishment for crimes like trespassing upon sacred ground, incest, homosexuality, prostitution and many more. 
I certainly don't condone murder, rape, child molestation or any of' the other 57 crimes punishable by death. I believe that these men and women need to live the rest of their days in a secure environment in order to protect society. But by executing tlrnm, we accomplish nothing and we teach society that vio­lence is an acceptable way of dealing with our problems. Moreover, wn'rn teaching our children that it is OK to react to violence with violenc1\. 
Is that what Jesus Christ would do'! In the words of Sister Helen Prejean C.S..J. "The movement to abolish tlrn death penalty needs the religous community because the heart of religion is about compassion, human rights and the inherent dignity of each person made in the image of'God." God expects us to take action and make peace in the world and not simply pray that things get bet­ter. 
I don't believe that God thinks that cer­tain human bnings are morn "dispos­able" than others. I don't bdieve that God likes to sne us act in vengeance toward one another. And most impor• tantly, I don't bnliew1 that .Jnsus Christ would hav11 wished dnath in paymnnt for the men who nailed him lo Urn cross. 
"Father forgive them, f'or thny know not what they do." 
Lauren Jiloty 
Junior 
Saine Mary·• College Scpccmhcr 5. 2000 
DILBERT 


E 
8 

® "S• A SINGLE-CELL 
50, I HEAR 'YOU'RE 
• 
., ~ 
ORGANISM. 
• 
~ 
ii 
E 
0 
u 
t: 
~ 

1-t::'.;;l~l-'------;=~-t} 
WHAT'S UP 
WITH THAT? 

//. I I I 
I I 
, I ,,f­
l 1, 4'b,, 
, I ' I I 


SCOTT ADAMS 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"So long as governments set the example of killing their enemies, private indtviduals will occasionally kill theirs." 
Elbert Hubbard writer 
-

VIEWPOINT 
O
fHE Wednesday, September 6, 2000 BSERVER page 11 
GUEST COLUMN 

Quizzing your 
knowledge on 
diversity 
Tim following list of questions test your knowledge about diversity 011 1·amp11s Auswcr tnw or false Ln the following questions: 
I. Notn~ Damn is an ethnically diverse place. 
2. All of tlrn :'\frir.an-Amcrican male students on campus are ath-IPtPs. 
3. TIH' minority studPnts on campus arc here 
MSPS

bPcausc of af'lirmative action. 
4. Tim Oflicp of Admissions at Notre Dame tills quotas. 
What's Your

:i. Most womPn comA to ;\lotni 11ame to find thnir husband. Shade? 
(,. The black students at Notre Dame all sit togntlrnr in thn dining hall to separate them­s11lv!is from lhP-white stll(lents. 
7. 
The whilr. slurlents at Notn: Dame all sit together in lhe dining hall to separate themselves from the black students. 

8. 
All Asian stud1mts are in the College of Science. 

9. 
If you speak Spanish, then you must be Hispanic. 

10. 
If'you can·t speak Spanish, you must not be Hispanic. 



11. 
Multicultural Student Programs and Services (formerly OMSA) is only for students of color. 

12. 
Thnrn am only Filipino students in the Filipino-American Stmhmt Organization. 


1:{. Tlwrn am only Asian students in the Asian-American Association. 
14. 
Thon~ are nnly black students in the NMCP. 

15. 
,\II the white students on campus are rich. l 6. All tlw women athletes with short hair are lesbians. 


17. 
All the "ballers" are "players." 

18. 
No whitn students ar<1 ever victims or discrimination. 

19. 
All thn gay students are theater majors. 

20. 
Thorn is no racism at Notre Dame. 


ThesP are not trick questions. Question one is false. So is question tv,o, number three and number four. All of these questions are false. So if you answcrnd "true" to any of these questions, you were wrong. If you haw~ lo make a note of it, please do so. Thank you. 
The uiews expressed here are those ofthe author and not necessari­ly lhosC' ofThe Obseruer. This column was written by Kevin lluie, assistant director of Mrtlticu(tural Student Programs and Services. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Keeping religion in politics 
Farnz Hana's rccimt guest column, "Wrenching religion from poli­tics." in thP Tuesday, Sept. 5, 2000 edition of The Observer, reminds us that tlw framers of our Constitution wisely separated religious and political institutions. But the column's suggestions that the First t\mendmcnt's "Establishment Clause" has anything to say -let alone anything negative to say -about Senator Lieberman's recent expressions of religious beliAf miss the mark. 
The First Amendment limits the conduct of governments, not the nxprnssion of individuals. evnn when those individuals seek elected office. Insofar as "politics" encompasses not just th? ~ctivities of I?ub­lic of'licials and institutions but also the speech, actJVtsm, expressmn and commitment of private citiz1ms, the claim that respect for the Constitution requires us to "respect the separation of religion and politks" is simply wrong. 
Wr. arc social beings; "politics" is what we do. It is the sum total of 
our nllorts to achieve the common good. It is true, as the column 
sugg<'sts, that religious f'rnedom is best sn~ved when :~ligiou~ institu­
tions am autonomous and when the state 1s secular. Ihat said, there 
is no way, nor is there any good reason_, ~o "sel?aratc" r~li~iou_s_fai!,h 
from the important, and very human, CIVIC proJect that 1s pohtics. 
And there is certainly no mason to think that those who framed our 
Constitution thought otherwise. 
Richard W. Garnett Law Professor University of Notre Dame September 5, 2000 


U.N. taking religious approach to peace 
RALEIGH, N.C. 
The United Nations is sponsoring a World Peace Summit that is the first of its kind in the 55 years of its existence: a summit involving religious leaders from around the globe. More than a thousand religious delegates have arrived in 
Manav Tandon 
the United States to help the U.N. accomplish what it hasn't been able to 
The
since its inception in 

Technician
1945 -peace. 

The U.N. has long been the guiding force behind peaceful solutions to ... ok, just kidding. The 
U.N. has long been an incompetent puppet organization that has looked out for the inter­ests of the West while disregarding the needs of the "Third World." In the 55 years of its existence, it has proven its loyalty to the Western nations and its inability to maintain peace and order in the world by such events as the Vietnam War, the Gulf War and the recent bombing of Yugoslavia. 
In addition, it has proven that it is a failure as a peacekeeping organization by its most recent debacle in Sierra Leone, a small West African province. 
Last year, rebels belonging to the opposition disregarded the peace settlement that had been signed only a year before and took 500 
U.N. peacekeeping soldiers hostage. However, since the region is no longer of any strategic or economic value to the West, the U.N. called for more troops to be sent from "Third World" countries. '.'Jo call was made to the US to send its troops, which are better trained and better equipped than the Third World soldiers. The result: well, let's just say there's no peace in Sierra Leone's near future. 
But now the U.N. has finally realized its ineffectiveness in maintaining peace (or so it seems), and have, for the first time, invited religious delegates from its member coun­tries, hoping that they would be a little more successful. The U.N. has realized that it must look beyond eqmomic, political and military ambitions of the West in order to prevent future wars of apocalyptic proportions. 
This realization should have been obvious from the very beginning; political leaderships of different nations would always propagate policies and acts that would be most benefi­cial for their own countries. However, the question arises if the religious delegates will actually he any different from their political predecessors. 
First of all. the historic event has already been surrounded in controversy. The U.N. has been widely condemned for not inviting the Dalai Lama. Tibet's exiled spiritual leader, to the summit. Apparently, the U.N., the self-proclaimed advocate of democracy and free­dom, was initially reluctant to invite the Dalai Lama because of China's differences with the exiled Tibetan leadership. The U.N. feared that inviting him would signal recognition of his exiled government in India, which would not sit well with the Chinese leadership. However, courting enough pressure and criti­cism, the U.N. hastily sent out an invitation at the very last minute. The Dalai Lama, fortu­nately for the U.N., politely refused. He did not want the summit to suffer because of his presence. 
Secondly, if political leaders could not agree on standard policies for peace because of their selfish ambitions for political, economic and military power, the religious leaders would be even more divisive, because the principles and theologies of different religions will counter each other. And religious texts, theologies and principles cannot be compro­mised, even for the noble cause of peace. 
Perhaps some of the delegates are funda­mentalist religious zealots who intend to con­vert all of the other delegates to another reli­gion and to conform to their beliefs. Proselytizing and conversion have been the core of some religions, and it would be foolish to expect that the delegates of such religions would suspend their core beliefs for the dura­tion of the summit. Religious bigotry is a far more dangerous thing than political or eco­nomic ambitions. 
I believe that to attain peace in the world, spirituality (not religion) must play a huge role. Each individual. no matter what his or her economic and social position, should strive to be peaceful toward other fellow beings; only then can we expect entire nations to get along with one another. The religious delegates at the summit must first dispose of any hostility and hatred toward members of other religions. They must first attempt to understand each other's religious beliefs before diving right into a discussion about peace. 
They must go to the summit with an open mind, realizing the fact that "Truth is one, paths are many" (an ancient Hindu phrase). Only then can the delegates come up with an effective solution for long-lasting peace. Let's hope, for the sake of humanity, that they are successful in this noble endeavor. 
This column first appeared in the North Carolina State University newspaper, The Technician, on Sept. 1. 2000. and is reprinted here courtesy ofU-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

I N E T 
page 12 Wednesday, September 6, 2000 
AP ENTERTAINMENT BRIEFS 

Aguilera suffers rough weekend: It was a weekend pop star Christina Aguilera would soon(~r l'orget. First, slw lost her voice, forcing her to cancel a scheduled appearance at the New York StaLP Fair on Sunday night. Tl1011 souvenir-hunters sto!P golf clubs. pyrotl•chni(·s and a gym bag worth more than $1,000 from her tour bus. Two Syracuse University students who had been partying with Aguilera·s crew nwmbers on the bus whilli it was parked outside a hotel on campus were charged with larceny and burglary, police said. None or tlw items belonged to Aguilera. Aguilera, whosP hits include "(;11nil1 in a Bottle" and "I Turn to You," will try to reschedulP the fair cnncert !'or somn tinw in the next two weeks. 
Moore fights for horses' rights : Mary Tyler Moore is on a mission to protnrl llw city's carriagt\ horses, a popular tourist attraction. Ttw actrpss ha.s teamed up with thP American Society for the Prnvention of Crurlly lo Animals to drum up support for proposed legislation they say would protect lhc horsc>s. "Forget your visions of rom1rnc1• and nostalgia,.. said ASPCA President Larry llawk. who was joinrd Thursday by Moore on the steps of City Hall. "Current city law allows ilwse animals to work and live in dP.plorable conditions... Moore. who kenps ninP horses of hPr own on a farm in upstatP. New York, said she hadn't ridden a city horse-drawn carriage since a scene she did years ago with lhtdley Moore in the movi1~ "Six Weeks." "If I had known what tlrnsn horses were going through. I would have balked. I would not have partkipatrd in that," she said. Ilawk and Moorn said tlwy wr.n1 looking for someone to sponsor the proposed higislation which would restrict carriages to Central Park, set hours of departure lo and from stables, and requirn blanketing of horses in freezing weather. 
Ono discusses latest work: Yoko Ono says lrnr latest work or art, a fn•ight rar borPd through with hundn~ds of holes and illuminatr.d from inside was inspirnd by Uw clcaths of I H Mexicans in 1987 whn pP-rishP.d in a sealed frnight rar trying to 1mtcr tlw United States illegally. Ono tiLIPd it simply "Frnight Train" and said she chose Lhr rail car as a symbol of human suffPring during the "millPnnium of violence" that just P.nded -but that stw inl1mdNl no sp11cilk reforPnre to thr. Ilolocaust. '''Frnight Train· is a n•mincltir of thr viol(:nce and pain which pmiplf' all over the world an· suffering and, I hopn, an inspiration to rr.sist it," Ono said during Tlrnrsclay's unveiling. Tlw in.~lilllation is displaytid on a lo! ad,ioining tfw fornrnr East GNman p;irlia­nwnl building through Oct. 1. It \.Viii b11 moved to Detroit next. 
Ellen Degeneres, Heche Decide to Sell Home: Following a highly publirii.1•d brnakup. Fllen f}e(;nnrrns n.nd i\nnr lleche havn decided to sell their $2.75 million honw. Tlw pair purchaiwd thP 4.000-square-l'ool, farmhouse-style structure in 1998. It sits on 10 acres of propnty that indudf's working avocado and citrus orchards in Ojai, a coastal community north of l.os Angnlc\s. 
Tlw two still own a Jlollywood I I ills home, which they bought for $1.7 million in .ll!IH\ IIJIJ<J. llnclw. :n. and llt>Generr,s, 42. announl·.11cl thf'ir breakup Aug. 19. lleche was 
hospitalizr,d just hour;; later art11r parking her car along a highway, wandering up lo a l10nlf' and making strange statnnrnnts to the occupants. Ilnclw was trnated at a hospital. but additional details wore nevr.r made avail­able. DcGcnrires was the first openly gay lead on television with her ABC sitcom "Ellen." llechc starred in the remake of "Psycho" as well as "Volcano," "Six Days, Seven Nights" and "Heturn to Paradise." 
MTV Music Awards seek to create shock moments 
By DAYID BAUDER 
AP Television Writer 
NEW YOHK 

Quick quiz; Who's won the most MTV Video Music A.wards? Bonus question: Who won the most awards last year? 
Question three: Who cares? Awards are never rnally the point or thf' Video Music Awards, anyway. 
Thr, show·s real purpose is to r,rnate those pop culturn moments that makf' you cringe or laugh out loud, prnf'erably both. You're much more likely to remember Michael Jackson's creepy kiss wilh Lisa Marie Presley (1994). Bust.a Hhymes making time with Martha Stewart (1 CJ97). Prince's butt-less pants (1991). thr first post-arrest sighting of Pee-wee IIP.rman (1991 ). or Howard Stern's "Fartman" descending from thr. rafters (19921. 
Pop musk's annual outrageous party returns to New York's Hadio City Music Hall this week, shown live on MTV at 8 
p.m. Eastern on Sept. 7. Marlon and Shawn Wayans, hot off their "Scary Movie" collaboration. are the hosts. 
They have a tough act to live up to. The 1999 Video Music Awards. with Chris Hock as host, had the highest rat­ings in the show's 16-year history and. with 12 million viewers. was the top­rated entertainment program in cable historv. 
Just because MTV's airtime is now dominated by such young acts as Britney Spears and 'N Sync, don't expect a G-rated slumber party. 
"Therr. is still a tremendous exper.ta­tion on behalf of our audience to com­pletely surprise them, shock them, takr. risks and do things that nobody r.lse would do," said MTV president Van Toffler. "That hasn't changed even though the composition of the music has changed." 
To!Tif'r believes the openness of young fans to different f'orms of music is one of' th11 factors driving up viewership in recent years. 
"I laving all of thnse stars, Orn higgnst stars from all these gnnrns of' music. tr.nds to bring in a biggflr audiP11c1• than Wll might typically get wlwn WP wPre doing just a rock show," lw said. 
The nominees !'or year's best video reflect the diversity:· rap1rnr liminPrn. punk rockers Blink 182, soul star l>'Angelo, boy band ·N Synl, and vntPran rockers Hed Hot Chili Peppers. 
Except f'or D'Angelo, each of' those artists is sclrnduhid to perl'orm. along with Sisqo. Christina Aguil0ra. llMX. .Janot Jackson, Hagn i\gainst the Machine and Spears. Presnnt.nrs include Dr. Dre, Chris Hock. Thr. Hork and Sting. 
And. since he has been just about everywhere else. "Survivor" winnPr Hichard Hatch will appPar. 
To111er said hn is hoping to p1\rsuadc Hock {that's Chris. not Tim) to join !!Pel !lot Chili Peppers onstagn. lie said viewers can expect Aguilera to be joined by someone unexpected onstage -which could mean rival Spears or. if' shfl really wantnd to push the envelopP. Eminem. The rapper joked on his latest album about Aguilera pnrf'orming a sex act on him. 
"I think we've br.nn pionr.ers in trying to take what's happening in culture at the moment and trying to !1ip it on its hnad and bring it to pnople in our awards show," Tofrler said. "P1\ople have trir.d to imitatn us, but you can·1 r0ally plan for thr.sr. kinds of' moments." 
Sum you can. Tof'fler rnmemlwrs MTV executives "doing back-llips" af'trr they pnrsuaded Ilcrman to show up al'tPr h1• had been arrested f'or indecPnt expo­sum and utter thn mr.morable lirH': "Jlnarcl any good jokns latrdy'?'' 
If' you do care. Eminem and 'N Sync both scored the most nominations this ynar with six apir.ce. Hed Jlot Chili l'Pppers. Metallica, Sisqo and AguilPra had five each. 
Oh. and to answPr our own quiz: Madonna, with 18 awards, is ttw all­time quer.n. Lauryn llill won four last year. 

ADAM NADEUAP Busta Rhymes and Martha Stewart present an award at the 1999 MTV Video Music Awards. 

I N E T 
Wednesday, September 6, 2000 page 13 
Surf the Web to laugh your homework away 
Internet humor sites provide welcome distraction for stressed-out students 
By MATT KILLEN 
Scene Writer 
While Uw long, boring days of winler are still far off. it's n1wer too earlv to have a few Web sites to hrowsP on that ram ocr-asion whPn the math is donP. tlw paper is writLPn. and there is somt1 time to kill. So skip borPd.rnm and just point that clirkPr at these hilarious \V(~b sites. 
,\lwavs a favorite, The Onion twww.theonion.com1 still m;{nag<•s to produrn weekly news pieces that am both J'unny and. on ocrnsion, ironically poignant. This nPwspapcr parody. dubbP-d as "i\merira's finest news source," has a retined and easy layout that's not too crowdml or diffir.ult to navigate. 
The Onion has bPcomc a master at parndy, being able to take a common fact and produce a brilliant and witty pie!"'.0 about that fac;t. Thfl top story on Aug. 30 was ''Dolphins evolve opposablf' thumbs." 
ThP st()ry played off tht> notion that sonw sdenlists believe that dolphins. hav­
ing a greater brain capaci­

these stories follow the 
tv than humans, are 
12-year old on mysteries
s·marter. The advent of 
that parody actual 
opposabl1, thumbs (and the 
events. In "Encyclopedia
abilitv to fashion and cre­ate t)bjectsl spells certain doom for man's domi­nancc. 
Some otlwr recent arti­cles hav8 bePn "Sr.ienr,e Cuy Bill f\ye KillPd in Massive Vinegar/Baking-Soda Explosion" and "Troubled Robert Downey Jr. Placed Under 24-llour Media Surveillance." All the articles derivf' from consistentlv funnv ideas and maintain their quality throughout the piece. 
Thr Onion also features weekly section like the horoscopes and a man on the street feature railed "What do you think?" The horosr.ope is far from the traditional horoscope. with such prr,dictions as "You'vp alwavs bPen a lightning rod for controvPrsy, but it gr\ts w~irsc wlrnn you become an actual light­ning rod." 
Th£' Onion has an imredible and organized archive that is worth a s,rnrch, as well. All llrn storir,s am archivml and indr,xpd after each weekly issue. Some or thr. bP.si lir. in the "Point-Counterpoint" archive. 
"Point-Counterpoint" contains sets of articles such as "'Liff' Begins at Conception' vs. 'Life begins at 401,'" or "'We Gave Hex to a Nice Farm Family'(by a motherl vs. 'They Put Me to SIP-ep at the Vet' (by the dog. Rex).~ · 
ThP probl0m with The Onion is that it is simply an onlinl' nr>wspapPr, nothing more. The exact same 
!@the OMIOM® 
material is available in its weekly print version. The Onion dot>s not embrace the Internet fully. 
The Modern Humorist 
fwww.modernhumorist.com l, 
however. embrares its onlinP forum completely. Along the same type of humor as The Onion, The Modern Humorist is updated 
.Jim Morrison Shres 0-eepIy O•,t Of Apatiri"lflrt IAird:w 

, 

Ra.:a . :~i'f-,;i\,r 
Deaf OildV!latol"es . "j 
L~!U aty 
ill 
OildSigi 
•3od Damns Mnnesota Vikings .As Requested LIBERTY'I/ILLE, IL--Respc,nding to a fourth-q11arter ,;ryfrom diehard Chicago Bears ian Lesteer Ru,j,fo:,l.:, 
God damned the Minnesota \/kings Sunday·. "F'l,w'=rs and emplo\<ees of the Vi<ings organization," 
Go,:l annc,unced from He,n1,an, "I have heard t~,e 
pleas ot Lest;::r Rud dido'. in the final mom,:,ni:. of a devastating 30•27 Be.ars los:,: t" the \!kings . .and M1' tNrath :;:h,;il\ burr, foreve,r against you. ~lo s,upplicati,,n, 
n,:, c,ontrilion can help yo:"J no1.I\I. Ev«~/ la:s:t on« c,f yc,u. from .Al~Pro •N1d..,,ut Randy t"1o:s:s all the way do•.om to third.string left guard Chrr; Li.Mienski. shall 
be damned hi an eternit,r of pam and :s:uffermg." 
N0a:-..vOrle;;rrs .Adopts $10 Cover Cr,;;rge 
NE\.fti ORLE.AJIS-•l1o!1N Ori,;ans ar,no1Jnoo!d plans Monday to impose a *10 oover charge on all 
nonresidents zeeking to enter the oit1'-"For 1;10. vi:"it,:,rs t01ill reoe ~.-e ur, limited aMe,s fo all bars and 
nightclub:;, three drink iid<:€ols, and a free 'Certified Mufi Dii.r-,r' T-st,irt." said M,ryor Marc Mo rial. flanked b·,r a pair of the city's bounoo::,rs. "Tl',ose ..,,ho s-.,rnt t,:, 
lealfe the citv and return before 2 a.m. oan get their h.n,d ,tamped for readmission." Wom,;,n who flash their bre,asi:. t.Mill be admitte,d atthe reduoed rate of $8. 

daily with new material and takes a more variP<l approach to its piflces. 
Oftentimes, The Modern Humorist will parody the Internet itselr. It has a take on AskJeeves. com, called Ask Jeez. In Ask Jeez, questions such as "Is this not the carpenter's son?", "Who then ran be saved" and "Where can I find mp3s online't" am all answered by 
tho Son of Man Himself. 
This Web site also has semi-regular pieces, like the Encyclopedia Brown stories. Written like the fourth grade novels,

Brown and Case of the Pirated Mp3s," Encyclopedia helps Dr. Dre and Metallica dis­cover who's been steal­ing their music. 
Some of the parodies are available for purchase as well. There is a collection of campaign sticker avail­able for both parties. A surfer can mock the Democrats with stickers like "Al Gore: He gave us the lnternet, he can take it away" or mock Republicans with "George 
Photo courtesy of www.mrcranky com 

mer pieces piled together on one Web page. 
-
If Ebert's thumb doesn't do justice as a movie review, click over to Shadowculture's Mr. Cranky (www.mrcranky.com). Mr. Cranky forgoes the thumb and star systems for a range of bombs. One bomb dubs a movie as being "almost tolerable" while five bombs denote a movie "as good as a poke in the eye with a sharp stick." Truly unbearable films receive a special dynamite bomb. 
Like any other movie critic, Mr. Cranky offers week­ly reviews of just-released films. As the name implies, however, his reviews are somewhat more negative­focused than the typical critic is. 
In his review of "X-Men", which received a general­ly favorable two-bomb rating, he says, "First of all. everybody who lives in New York is already a mutant. I don't see how a little genetic scrambling is going to affect anything. And as one person next to me noted, 'Why is Captain Picard in a wheelchair?' That one question sums up the whole movie." He also describes the characters' mutant powers. Halle Berry as Storm apparently has the mutant ability where she "can leave the scene of any accident undetected." 
The Mr. Cranky archives are easy-to-use and orga­nized by title and rating. This Web site offers new reviews every week, and typically manages to review all new releases for that week. 
Another online movie 

Bush: Tough as nails and just as 
review site, The Editing Room smart." One of the most popular (www. ter. airOday. com). is items available for sale, however, much smaller than Mr. is its now-famous 1950s era paro­Cranky and not nearly as dy poster, "If you're downloading consistently updated. This mp3s, you're downloading com­site offers an original per­
munism!" spective on film reviewing. The Modern Humorist's "cover­While The Editing Room does age" of the political conventions have a traditional scale of five was certainly more entertaining stars for movies, it reviews than the conventions themselves, the film by writing a hilarious 
Photo courtesy of www.ter.airOday.com parody script for it. All too
offering a variety of parodies rip­
ping on both Republicans and Democrats. 
This Web site's archives are not very well orga­nized, however. The stories are listed by date, but this is very muddled and there is no clear order to the archives. It boils down to an arbitrary listing of for-
Nation Trying To Fix Up Ralph Nader With Date 
WA'c,HING IUN, 
DC--Concerned that the Green Party presidential oar,didate and lifelong bachelor is lonety·, citizens across the count~/ are t~;ing to set up Ralph Nader on a date. 
Fdl Te:o.t,, 
In The News 

Christian Hight Lobbies lo Overturn Second Law Of Thenm:,clV!.1~mics 
Exit Interview Goes Well 


often, the parody is written far better than the movie itself. 
The humor is mainly based on the characters in the movie stating outright what is really true. In the abridged script for "The Cell", Jennifer Lopez's char-
Photo courtesy of www.theonion.com 
acter savs, "I care about children. You can tell· I care about children by my sweet voice and bouncy. non-threaten­ing hairstyle." 
The Editing Room is updating only sporadically, however. and is certainly not in synch with the national release sr.hedule of films. Still, the material is almost always funny, with little dip in quality. 
To vent frustration over a certain pro­fess or. why not write a witty and scathing .complaint letter about him or her? 
The Complaint Letter Genuator (csag. cs. uiuc. edulindividual/pakinlcom­plaintt will ask the name and sex of an individual and randomly produce a let­ter. 
The letters are combinations of phras­es and make no real sense, but the right 
combination can be funny and,  on rare  
occasion, true.  
Check  out  allparody,com  and  

humor.about.com for even more humor­ous Internet sites. But be forewarned: many sites listed on these sites are sim­ply crude, lowbrow and disappointing. The Web sites listed above are all high quality, hitting the delicate balance between funny and stupid nearly all the time. 
These are safe sites that are almost guaranteed to pull a laugh from even the most bogged-down and stressed student. 
r------------------------------------~----------------------------­
page 14 The Obse;ver . SPORTS Wednesday, September 6, 2000 
==========-=====-===-=-=============================================================================================================== 
MLB 

Mets pull off last-minute win in the tenth with a homer 
sion. feet ninth for his 32nd save. walked and Dante Bichette sin­Lofton's two-run, singln off 
Associated Press 
There was nothing n'mark­Seattle has won seven straight gll'd before Scott llatteberg reliever Tony Fiorn (1-1) gavn 
- CINCINNA.TI This timP, tlrn l\fots won one with a last-inning homer. Todd Zcile's solo shol in the 10th inning gavn New York a 3-2 victory Tunsday night ovnr the Cincinnati Heds and snapped th1• Mets' f'our-ganrn losing streak. After losing all thrnf1 garrws over tlrn Wf'Pk<'nd in St. Louis bv one nm in tlw ut-ba1. ­two of' them on hom.-rs bv Jim Edmonds -the Mets su·rvivnd another closo call and turned ttw tr~nd Turk w,~ndcll 17-4) wrnt to u 1-2 count to Ken (;riffov Jr. in the bottom of' tlw ninth irnct loft thn next pitch ovPr the pla.tn. Criffny hit it a long way but stood at the plate and rranPd his !mad sidPways, watching it hook foul hl'f'on' landing in thn Sf!cond d<i(·k in right /'ield. Givl"n th,, repri,we. Wcndrll struck him out. Zeil1\'1­I8th homer off Scott Sullivan (2-(,) r.hiarPd thP wall  able about another low-scoring game for the Mets. who havA been in a deep slump. Hun-scoring singles by Benny Agbayani in the third and Zeilc in lhA fourth put the Mels up 2-0, but they failed to get another runner to second until Z1~ile rounded the bases in the 10th. The Hcds gut their l'irsL run off Heed with a little hustle. Chris Sf'xton stretchf'd a hit to righl-center into a double lo opRn the l'if'th and scored on Pokcy llresc's two-out single, only Lim Hnds · fourth hit to that point. Heed pumped his l'ist and twice prn111df'd it into his glove artor Sexton flew out to the warning track in right field with two runners aboard in the sixth, prnscrving the 2-1 lead. lie slowly walked off the field with head down after White was summoned in the seventh. Two batters later. Stvnes til'd it wiLh his soft liner to ie/'t.  over Toronto. which has lost four in a row overall. Olerud hit an HBI grounder in the first and David Bell made it 2-0 with a run-scoring single in the second, but Morandini tied it with a two­run single in the bottom hall'. Buhnor's RU! double gave Seattle a 3-2 in the third, but Brad Fullmer hit a run-scoring single in the fifth to tie it again. Red Sox 10, Athletics 3 Mannv Alexander hit his first career·grand slam during a seven-run tirst inning, backing Pete Schourek in his comeback from a shouldPr injury and lPading the Boston Ilcd Sox to a l 0-3 victory ov1u the Oakland Athletics. Schourek (3-9) had not wou in 12 starts bPforc going on the disabled list July 21 with ,t !'raved left rotator cuff. He allo.wed three runs on just two hits and a walk in 5 1-3 innings while striking out six to  blooped a broken-bat. single over thP shortstop to score two more. After Donnie Sadler walked to load thP bases, All~xander homered into the semen above thr, Green Monster down tho line to make it 7-0. Nixon sin­gled again before Offerman, the 11th battPr of' thP inning, flied ouL Lo centnr !'or Lhe Lhird out. Boston made it 8-0 in the third when Sadler doubled and scored on Nixon's doublo. Schourok held Oakland hit­less through 3 1-3 innings before Jason Giambi hit his 32nd homer, a solo shot, in t.he fourth. The A's scored two in tho fourth on an BBi double bv Mike Stanley and a basc~;­loadod walk drawn by Miguol Tcjadu. off llipolito Pichardo. Pichardo thr.n left. the ganrn with an apparnnt !'!how prob­lem. Indians 7, Devil Rays 4  Cleveland a 6-4 lead. Sandy Alomar scorc\d from third later in the inning on Fiorn's wild pitch. Tampa Bay, which f'ound out before tlH1 gam1: that Gerald Williams and four others wore being susponded for last wenk's brawls against Boston, went atH'ad in tlw lirst on (;reg Vaughn's three-run homer. Vinny Castilla hit an llBI dou­hln in llrn third. Hoberto Alomar b11gan Cleveland's c·omnback with a fourth-inning singln olT l'aul Wilson, tlrn Indians· f'irst hit. David Segui's HBI single latl'r in tlrn inning madn it 4-2. Cleveland got another run in the 111'th on a two-basn throw­ing error by shortstop Felix Martinez. and .lim Thomn honrnrcd in the sixth, his 3]rd of' tho season. Tigers 7, Angels 5 Tony Clark hit his f'irst homer sinc.e June 28 and Brian  
in lnfl-ccntnr and got the f\.fots up for an 1,nthusiastic high-five  Mariners 4, Blue Jays 3  win for the first time sinre May 15 against Toronto. He com­ Kenny Lofton hit a tiebreak­ing two-run single during four­ Moehlf1r won his sixth straight decision as Lim Dl'troit Tigers  
celebration in tfrn dugout.  Mike Cameron hit a tiebrcak­ bined with four other pitchers  run  sixth  inning  as  the  beat Anahnim,  Urn  Angnls'  
Armando BPnit<'z pitched the  ing sacrifirn 11y in the eighth  on a six-hitter.  Cleveland Indians rallied from  sixth straight loss.  
10th for his 37th saw. one shy of John Franco's team record  inning, and the Seattle Mariners beat the Toronto  Boston remained two games back in the AL wild card rac11  a four-run deficit to br,al thP Tampa Bay Devil Rays.  Billy Mc.Millon hit a two-run double for thn Tigors, who  
Crom 1998.  Blue .Jays for just their sixth  behind Cleveland, whir,h beat  Cleveland, which leads the  have won  fivn of' six to mov<'  a  
Hick H(w<l, who got th11 Mets'  win in their last 22 games.  Tampa  Bay  7-4  Tuesday,  AL wild-rard race, improv11d to  season-best three gamns  over  
only win in thPir six prnvious  With the  score  3-all, Edgar  Oakland  dropped  to  three  21-10 since Aug. 2 and moved  .500. Detroit. which startod tlw  
games, turncd a  2-1  lead  over  Martinez singled off Kelvim  games behind the Indians.  a  season-high 13 games  over  snason  9-23. rnmained  f'ive  
to thP bullpPn in the seventh  Escobar (9-14) leading off the  Kevin Appier (12-11) made  .500 at 74-61.  ga.mns behind AL wild  card  
and  watch1~d  it quirkly slip  eighth  and  John  Olerud  his shortest start of the year,  Jason Bore (11-9) overcame  leader Ckveland.  
away.  reached  on  an  error.  His  lasting just 2 2-3 innings and  early inconsistency to improvo  Srott Spinzio had  a  two-run  
Hid \N h it11 .  w h o gave  up  grounder to second went off  allowing eight runs.  nine hits  to  5-2  since  the  Indians  triple for the i\.ngnls. whosn  
Edmonds'  11th-inning homer  Mirkny Morandini's glove. and  and three walks. He gave up  acquired him f'rom Milwaukee  losing streak is tlwir worst of  
in St. Louis on Sunday, relieved  the infielder threw  to first,  two  walks  and  five  hits  - on  July 28. !le allowed four  the sP.ason. Anahnim began thn  
with  a  runnnr  on  sernnd and  where Carlos DPlgado dropped  including Alexander's homer  runs  and  four  hits  in  six  night six games bnhind S11attlo  
gave up Chris Stynes' two-out  the ball.  - with  two outs in the first  innings, struck out seven  and  in the AL W0.st.  
single that tied it. H,ied and Pete Ilarnisrh hpt  Jav Buhner advanced the runners with his first sacrifice  inning. Trot Nixon singled to lead off  walked four. Steve Karsay pitrhed  two  Clark. on tho disabled list from July 15 to Sopt. l with  
il r.lose through seven  innings  'bunt since July 10, 1998. and  the first and Jose Offerman  scoreless  innings  and  Bob  back problems, hit a  two-run  
by avoiding big innings -ther team scored more  nei­than  Cam!'lron 11ied to center. Arthur Rhodes (4-7) pitched  walked before Carl Everett grounded into a double play.  Wickman worked the ninth for his 10th save in 12 chances  homer in the second inning. I le also walked and scornd in a  
one run  at a  time, and nf1ither  1 2-3 scoreless innings, and  Nomar Garciaparra singled to  with the Indians. his 26th of  fivA-run  third  that put the  
starter wound up with  a  deci- Kazuhiro Sasaki pitched a per- score Nixon, then Troy O'Leary  the season.  Tigers up 7-1.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 \,.m. at the Notre D,,me office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must he prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhc right ro edit all classifieds for content wirhour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
Need babysitter in our home for 7-•..Spending too much$ on beer? TICKET MART month-old. Granger. High quality kegerator. 
TICKETS BUY/SELUTRADE WANTED Must have car & references. Bought in '98 for 1 k. Asking $600 ALL GAMES 243-5618 (can be split amongst roommates & 271-9330 later resold to underclassmen). 
SOUTH BEND LODGING SPRINGBREAK 2001 Job direct wants to HIRE YOU! #1 312-952-2540 leave v-mail."• Tickets In-home B&B lodging for football Hiring On-Campus Reps rated student job search is seeking BUSINESS MAN NEEDS NO FOOTBALL TIX WANTED games & ND-SMC events SELL TRIPS, enthusiastic reps WINTER BREAK/SPRING BREAK Nebraska tickets or season Close to campus. EARN CASH. More info: nrodgers@nd.edu Ski & Beach Trips on sale now! GA only. 277-1659 A.M. -232-2378 Breakfast included. GO FREE!!! www.sunchase.com 
P.M. -288-2726 Call (219) 243-2628 or Student Travel Services Looking for 10 enterprising students or call 1-800-SUNCHASE 
ga ryb@mvillage.com America's #1 Student Tour for part time computer work. TODAY! FOR SALE-Operator Earn up to $4,000.00/mo. 1-800­STANFORD. NO FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE 2 BDRM APTS. FOR 2000-01. Jamaica, Mexico, Bahamas, 304-0414 AIR FORCE, ALSO LEASING FOR 2001-02 Europe, Florida Lv. Msg. 
PERSONAL

BOSTON. A.M. -232-2378 DAVE 291-2209 1-800-648-4849 Cheap. P.M. -288-2726 www.gospringbreak.com N.D. grad/physician would like to 654-0168 ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE hire 1 or more students for website Recent ND grads need Turtle 
AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS EARN EXTRA CASH design/Internet research. Creek apartment to crash at for ND· 
NEED 3-5 GA TICKETS FOR http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ Word-processing from dictation office/clerical work including pt1oto· NU weekend. $600 and will stock WANTED NEBRASKA FOOTBALL GAME. ernail:mmmrentals@aol.com involving client case studies. Must copying/filing. apartment with lots of food and bev-NO FOOTBALL TKTS PLEASE CALL 1-630-904-6418 232-2595 have computer. Call 277-1275 after 8 p.m. erages/fund big party 289-92B0 THANKS Dictaphone provided. Call for info + Counteroffers encouraged. mat-
interview mornings, M-Thur. Ask for tea@alumni.law.upenn.edu
2BR. 2nd fir. Apt. 525/mo. 
Cindy.

Along St. Joe River. 
NOTICES

SELLING BUY/SELL N.D. 287-3373 It's three a.m. 1 must be sick and 
Include ND FOOTBALL TKTS FOOTBALL TICKETS. tired of being here and not in my
Water/Sec. Syst.rrrash 251-1570 HOME & AWAY GAMES. (219) Looking for a babysitter in our warm bed.
288-2654 or 288-2788 289-8048 home. Flex. hours. SKYDIVE!\ ND STUDENT That Pretty Place, Bed and No Sundays. Training Students for 35 Years VICTORY TKTS CONVERSION 1 Hour North of South Bend hello katie metz. how are you
Breakfast Inn has space available BUY• SELL 'TR ADE TIX NEEDED LOVE KIDS? GREAT LAKES today? do you like your fake horo­
for football/parent wknds. NO FOOTBALL WANT TO EARN GOOD MONEY SKYDIVERS, INC. scope?
5 Rooms with private baths, $80­232-0964 BUT ONLY WORK A FEW HOURS 1-800-351-6617
$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from www.victorytickets.com GA Ticket Available tor Nebraska A WEEK? who will bring me toothpaste?
campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1 · Game -Sept. 9 Area lamily needs individual to care
800-418-9487. Lower section, 20 yard line for two daughters welcome to notre dame julie keeler! 
FOR SALE

BUY/SELL Contact Jay: (201) 264-0262 2-3 times/wk from 3-6 p.m. 
I have 5 bedrooms for rent in myND TICKETS starting mid-Sept Mom attending 
nicely-decorated private home for 273-3911 Attention! Paying $162.50 cash for grad school in Chicago. Girls are 1 mile from NO in quiet neighbor-kelle. lucky us, we get to draw
Football weekends; less than 2 Nebraska tickets. 
miles north of stadium, continental dellghtfull hood, 2 nature today, i just can't wait Sorry, no student conversions Transprtn needed. Bedroom very clean 
brkfst included 
ALWAYS BUYING needed. Many happy repeat Generous pay! $69,500. matt teubner, i bet you are pleased NEBRASKA 219 289-8048. customers! Call Kim 277-8340. If interested. please call Karen Call that you have a three syllable name 271-9330 Stonehill at 272-5013. (219) 264-4966 with the right configuration 
Wednesday, Septernber 6, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
U.S. OPEN 
Hingis qualifies for semifinals with quick win over Seles 

Williams, who rode a far bumpi• far." llingis said. "It was kind of Hingis.
Associated Press 
er path to their semifinal meet­"When you focus that a little test: ls it enough against "I don't think she is going to 


ing, eventually undoing No. 8 much in the first set, I Monica, or will it be enough win if she plays like this,'' saidMartina Mingis sat in trallir: for Nathalie Tauziat, 6•4, 1·6, 6-1. against, Venus?" Tauziat, known for being blunt 
onr agonizing hour yesterday was cruising through, 
Williams won her last match It could be enough if Williams since her tell-all book about theaf'tcrnoon gp,tting to the United with. Ilinl{is. a. quarterfinal at everything was happen-. is as giving with her errors as women's tennis tour caused a
States OpPn. 
Wimbledon, en route to her first ing so fast, I almost got she was yesterday in her quar• small stir this summer. "I think if But when Grand Slam title in July. terfinal. In one telling moment. she is to win the tournament,
she l'inally scared. like 'Please slow 
But while Williams clunked to leading by 4·0 in the third set. she needs to improve her level."
took the her 24th straight vir:tory yester­it down, somehow.·" Williams had just allowed EVfm Williams agreed. "I guess
w hrrnl last 
day, committing 31 unforc:ed Tauziat to break her serve for I'll have to play a little bit bet­
night. she 
errors. IIingis committing only the fifth time, following her 10th ter," she said, 'TH always play
found her­Martina Hingis
13 errors and revealed very little double fault with her 29th better when it comes to the big
E'lelf half\,vav 1997 U.S. Open winner
vulnerability. unforced error. delivering a match." 
to the semi­If anything, 1-lingis even admit• backhand into the net Against the eighth•ranked
finals of the 
tcd that she was too good. But her biggest miss was yet Tauziat, Williams admitted she
Unitrd 
"When vou focus that much in another comeback. She started to come. was less than inspired. SheStates Open 
the first set, I was cruising to attack Hingis. breaking her at With an irritated harumph, would roll her eyes petulantlyin an f!VC· 3-1, and then, when Hingis was
through, everything was hap• Williams plunked her 6-foot·1 · after struggling with her firstblinking ·14 minutf!s, joy riding pening so fast, I almost got serving for the match at 5•4, inch frame into her folding chair, serve, and looked supremelyon a superhighway littered with scared, like 'Please slow it down. Seles battled to force six break only the chair was not there. It uninterested during the secondMonica Sfllfls's unforced errors. 
somehow,'" Hingis said. points. On the final one, Seles was three inches behind her. set. "I wasn't competing," sheSeles, a. two-Lime United Stales 
was successful. sounding an
Seles, meanwhile, was just Williams sprawled onto the said
Open winner. c:ould only win a looking to stop time before it was alarm for her opponent. court, offering a snapshot of her In Williams's third•round vie• ­total of' six points in the first six 
too late. "All of a sudden it was 5•all game yesterday, a bit ungainly tory, a gritty Meghann
games. In the facn of a precision• "I really started off the match and you're like, Tve got to take and out of sync. · Shaughnassy was the one testingtiming expert likf' Ilingis. Sf'h~s•s 
control of the match again.'look wa.s as blank as her first•set which I did," Hingis said. 
sluggishly," she said. "My balls "I really missed," Williams her. Yesterday, she fought her­
were flying all over the place. said. at least able to poke fun of self and her own frustration, los­scorr. 
Maybe I panicked a bit. Against While Seles departs the Open herself aftp,rwa.rd. "J was just ing her first set in the tourna•Yd the woman who has over­
Martina, you're not going to get for the fourth straight year in the angry. I just couldn't see." ment. 
come mnre than _just a one-set any free points. I started making quarterfinals, Hingis seems to When necessary -no more so "I never get upset," Williamsckfir:it rt!rovf'rnd to give I Iingis a so many unforced errors and the arrive in the semifinals in top than in the final two games of said. "I was trying hard not tochallenge. if' not better practir:e 
set was gone probably in 10, 15 form. Yet she, too, has doubts, the third set -Williams played stomp my feet, swing my racquetfor the next round. minutes. especially since she faces a pow­well enough, flinging her limbs around. Some players show a lot
I Jingis, who won the Open in "I thought: 'This is really bad. erful nemesis in Williams. If she to smash overheads and reach of emotion, but usually I don't. 

1')97. needed 48 minutes for the 
It r:ould get worse. I could bag it gets past Williams for the 10th volleys, and rifled two stunning "That was maybe the mainsecond set before she forced in.' But at least I kept fighting time in 16 meetings, as she did backhand passing shots on the battle for me, why I didn't playSelns to strike a backhand wide and made it a better second set." in last year's exhausting three• way to winning her 24th straight well. I was too busy thinking ­
thal gave I lingis a 6-O. 7 -5 victo­
When Seles badlv mis-hit an set semifinal, will she have match this summer. about the points before, not 
ry and her fifth straight United overhead shot long in the second enough left for either Serena But her errors combined with focusing ahead. I don't feel I had
StatP.s OpP.n semilinal berth. Williams or Lindsay Davenport. 
set. bonking it off the racquet. her first-serve percentage of 52 my best performance. In the
She~ will entertain a rematch 

the rrowd groaned in sympathy tonight's quarterfinal opponents. did not seem to bode well for her end, the win is on the record. Iwith third-sef'cded Venus and encouraged her to make "I felt like I was playing well so semifinal rematch against move forward." 
~$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$t 
~ l\TD Fll\TAl\TCE CLUB I
$ $ $ $ 
$ ffi 
ffi ffi 
ffi ffi 
$ ffi 
ffi ffi 
$ ffi 
; 1st Meeting -All Welcome ~ 
$ ffi 
$ $ 
~ Wed, Sept 6. ~ 
$ ffi $ ffi 
; 6:30 ~ -­
$ ffi 
w ffi
ff 162 College of Business ff 
w ffi 
w ffi 
$ ffi 
$ $ 
ff Find out about our fall break trip to ff 
ffi ffi 
ffi ffi 
ffi ffi
ff NYC and Chicago! ff 
$ ~ 
ffi ffi 
ffi ffi 
w ffi 
; Also i 
ffi ffi ffi ~ ffi ffi
5 Special Presentation By ; 
$ ffi $ ffi ffi ffi ffi ffi ffi ffi 
; Merrill Lynch BFS ~ 
ffi $ ffi ~ 
ffi ~ 
ffi ffi
i l\TD Fll\TAl\TCE CLUB ~ 
ffi ffi 
~$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
.. 
page l 6 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 6, 2000 
OLYMPICS 
Injured Armstrong vows to race 
After that, Armstrong will
Associated Prc:s, "fie sounded in good 
make a final decision on
spirits. I think Lance is 

whether to ride in Sydney.
Two-limn Tour dn France 
always determined in Armstrong was diagnosed in
champion Lance Armstrong October 1996 with testicular
brokA n verl11brae in his neck everything he does. This 
cancer. which had spread towhen he collided with a car 
might just be another 

his lungs and brain. After
last month but still plans to race at the Sydney Olympics. obstacle for him to chemotherapy, he came back 
"Ilc's going Lo lose some fiL­overcome. " to win the 1999 Tour de rrnss from this. obviously," France and repeated as cham­Dan Osipow. a spokesman for pi.on this summer. 
Dan Osipow

tlw U.S. Postal Servir.e pro In May, Armstrong was hos­
U.S. Postal Service pro-cycling

cycling team. said Tuesdav. pitalized overnight after The injury. which ca~sed team member crashing in the Pyrenees 
Armstrong to drop out of two Mountains of Franr.e while races in Europe next week­my neck either way to look at training for the tour. end. was detected Monday traffic and be aware of what's In the latest accident, 
alfor he had an MHI at a clinic around." Armstrong said. Armstrong's bicycle was in Monaco. X-rays taken after destroyed and his helmet
Armstrong. 28. is scheduled 

tlrn Aug. 29 accidnnt and to compete in the Olympic smashed. Olympic and Postal again Saturday wrrn ncgativr. Service teammate Tyler
road race on Sept. 27 and the Armstrong, of Austin, Texas. Hamilton of Marblehead,
individual time trial. where hfl had r.omplained of pain is among the favorites, three Mass .. also was hit but wasn't 
-
around his ncr.k, prompting days later. seriously injured. tho additional tests. llti said "lie sounded in good spir­
lie will miss Saturday'she can train "on a limited Paris-Brussels race and its," Osipow said. "I think basis but that is very painful." Sunday's Grand Prix Pourmies Lance is always determined in 
"It also makes mr nnrvous 
but plans to compete in the GP everything he does. This might when you arc out on the open des Nations, a time trial event, just be another obstacle for road and it is difl1cult to turn on Sept. 16. him to overcome." 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
-
USC takes a rest after opening win 
games. lwice," he said. "But we team," Hackett said. "It's great
Associated Press 
get to watch everyone else for our conlerenr.e. We've been we're going to play." listening to our conference getLOS ANGELES 
llar.kett said Colorado was hammered."
Onn bye down. and anothnr 
impressive on both sides of thn The Pac-10 had a very diffi­on the horizon. 
ball dP-spite losing to its in-statr. cult time last season. and then
It's a dcw1\lopmenl that 
rival. and the statistics back its teams went 1-4 in bowl
donsn't particularly please him up. games. Pac-10 teams have
South1\rn California coach Paul 
The Buffaloes had 29 first started this season 7 -0 against
1lackott and some of his play-downs and 532 vards of total non-conference opponents.
1\rs. 
offense whilR cZ}lorado State
Of cours<~. when you win your 
had 17 first downs and only 65 
opener impressively. as the 
yards rushing. The Rams
11th-ranked Trojans did in 
scored on pass plays of 52, 34.
b1:ating Pnnn State 21J-:'i in the 
42 and 30 yards. and gained
Kickoff' Classic on Aug. 27, at 
327 yards through the air.
East Buthnrford. N.J., you want 
"I think the big question early

to play again, and right away. 
in the game is 'Are they going
"I just think when you're 
to stop the run and force
rolling ... a bye is bad," llar.kett 
Carson (Palmeri to throw?"'
said Tu11sday. "Byes aren't 
Hackett said.
things w11 look forward to. I 
The highly touted Palmer

don't like byes. 
passed for only 87 yards
"We've got to crank it up and 
against Penn State, but it didn't 
go. I would have much rather 
-
matter since the Trojans were
played a ganrn. we're an excit­
in command throughout.
ing team. The most exciting guy 
"Carson, I don't think, will 

on Saturday is going lo br. me. 
have that kind of game too
We'v1:, got a lot of zip on this 
many times," Hackett said. 
team. 
Palmer was playing in his

Tlw Trojans will have 1:{ days 
first game since last Sept. 25.
lwtwncn Llrnir ,.,·in ovnr Penn 
when he brokr his right collar­
Stal!' and Saturday's gamP at 
bone against Oregon.
th1\ l.os /\ngnlp,s Colis1iurn 
"Colorado is very tough to run

against Colorado, a 28-24 losnr 
against," IlackPtt said. "We 
to Colorado Statn in its first 
believe we're a stronger run­
gam1i of tlw s.-ason last wnnk­
ning team right now than WP 
PIH!. 
have been in llrn past. We'll just
Tlwn, th!\ Trojans takP anoth­
see how the game unfolds."
1·r wnf'k off bnforn entrrtaining 
llackett said he was very

San .Josi' StalP on SPpl. 23. 
plp,asf'd about the performancf'
''I'm trying to g1:t to thP nPxt 
by USC's offensive line against
UC Davis gamr, it's near 
Penn Stale.
l'hilad1dphia (against Wnst 
"They have smarted for years

Clwstnr UnivPrsitv)," llal'kntt 
about what's been said about
said wilh a sigh. llackNt's ,mn, 
them," hr said. "(But) ifs just
Nathaninl. is a sophornorr linP­
one game. Every year's a mlw
barlrnr at UC Davis. and 
year. you do not know the
Ilackntl watch1id him play last 
makeup or thf' chemistry of'
Saturday in a 5:i-7 vil'tory over 
your team until yoll play lwc1 or
Nnw Mnxiw llighlands. 
th me games."
"i\nothPr bye. man," USC 
llackett admitted he was

li1wbark1)r ZckP Moreno said. 
"vrry surprised" Penn State lost
'Tll tl'll you, I don't know who 
to Totr.do 24-6 at home last
mad!' up th1• schedule. You 
Saturdav.
practice all Wl'l\k, you want to 
llarkiltl also said, believe it or

play Saturday. I look forward to 
not. Im was "thrilled for UCLA"
playing Colorado." 
in the wake of the Bruins' 3!5­
Flanker Marct>II Allmond also 
24 upsPl of then-No. 3 Alabama
exprnssnd frustration. 
on Saturday.
"J\ lot of limns bntwenn 
"/\ lot or tribute goRs to that 
China suspends. athletes for drug use 
Assodaced Press 
SYDNEY, Australia 
China is cutting 40 athletes and officials from its team for the Sydney Olympics. includ­ing seven rowers who !'ailed blood tests for the banned pr.r­fo rm an ce-e n ha n c in g drug 
EPO. 
"I'm very pleased," International Olympic Committee president Juan Antonio Samaranch said Wednesday of the doping withdrawals. 'Tm very happy. This is very good news. It shows the new system for deter.ting doping substances will work very well. ... The objective is to have clean games." 
Sydney organiwrs said thev were notified by the Chines~ Olympic Committee of the withdrawals. 
IOC medical director Patrick Schamasr.h received a lr.ttcr from the Chinese rowing asso­ciation confirming that seven rowers were being withdrawn from the Olympic team after they testRd positive for EPO, or erthyropoietin, during doping controls in China. 
Schamasch said blood tests showp,d the athletes' EPO lev­els were above the allowable limit. 
Last week, the IOC executive board approved the introduc­tion of a combined blood and urine test for EPO at the Sydney Games. EPO. the drug of r.hoice among endurance athletes, stimulates thR pro­duction of oxygen-carrying rnd blood cells. and exports say it 
can improve performance by 
up to 15 percent. 
Until now. no test had b11nn 
able to detect the use of syn­
thetir. El'O. 
In Sydney. an athlete will be 
considered guilty of EPO use 
only if both the blood and 
urine tests arc positivr.. 
Schamasch said the Chinese 
rowers were dropped based 
only on blood testing. 
China. tarnished by a series 
of doping scandals in swim­
ming and other sports, has 
been r.arrying out sweeping 
drug tests to prevent the 
ernbarrassmr.nt of' positivr. 
results du ring the Sydney 
Games. With Beijing bidding 
for the 2008 Olympics. China 
is partir.ularly eager to be seen 
as r.rar.king down. 
Liu Jianyong, secretary gen­
eral of the Chinese Bowing 
Association. said thr. rowPrs 
had withdrawn to protnct their 
health and uphold thn fairness . of' the Olympic Ganrns. 
"We are trusting thn 
Chinese," Samaranch said. 
"They are fighting against 
doping. This is an example for 
many othr.r countries. This is 
good news for tlrn image of' 
sport." 
The reasons for the with­
drawals of the 33 other 
Chinese team mcmbnrs was 
not r.lear. 
"I would be surprised if all 
40 wern (for drugs)," IOC vire 
president Dick Pound said. 
"My guess is you'll find thr.y 
wern in sonrn elimination tour­
nament and didn't makn it." 

~~~~~,~~ ~"E."E.~,~~s 
Tuesday, September S --7:00 p.m. --Carroll Auditorium, SMC or Wednesday, September 6 --7:00 p.m. --Hesburgh Auditorium, ND 
Saint Mary's 

Open to all ND/SMC students 
Excellent academic program at Sacred Heart College in Cochin, India, focusing on the Asian world 16 semester credits applicable towards core or major requirements 


Opportunity for travel and study in many countries of the Far East, Southeast Asia, South Asia, Eastern Europe and Western Europe 
INFORMATION AND APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE SHORT VIDEO ON HIGHLIGHTS ALUMNI TO ANSWER QUESTIONS 

-Iii­
SAINT 

SEMESTER AROUND TI!E WORLD l'ROORAM (219) 284-4468 OR 4473, FAX (219) 284-4866 OR 273,5973 MARY'S 
COLLEGE

e-mail; pullapil@saintmarys.edu; http://www.saintrnarys.ed4/saw 
NOTRB DAME, IN 

Wednesday, September 6, 2000 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 6, 2000 
NCAA BASKETBALL
MEN'S GOLF 
Carmody to be named
Kent tops Notre Dame golfers 
Special to The Observer 
SPnior Alex Kent dosed with a round of' 70 to claim a thrne­strokn victory in the annual Notrn Damn Mf'n's Golf Campus Championship, fol­lowing Sunday's final two rounds of play in the 72-hole tournanwnt-h11ld for the first timn al Warren Golf Course. 
K('.Til headed into Sunday's action two strokrs behind f'rnshman leadPr 
!'titer Hivas following the 

l'irsl ](> holes of play on Aug. 
26-27. but K,rnt pulled even 
with Hivas despitr carding a 
third-round 7 5 (IUvas shot 77 I. 
Junior StPVP Hatay actually claimed the third-round lead thanks to his 71 in Sunday morning's round while sopho­more Brandon l.unkr used a third-round 74-to join the log­jam at srcond place. with senior Pal Schaffler lurking just two strokes off the lead ltnading inlo tlrn final round. 
KPnt's closing-round 70 yiP.ldod an imprr-ssive 289 Lota! and a three-stroke cush­ion on junior runner-up Kyle Monfort, who also posted a 70 in the afternoon round. Hatay's final-round 75 landed him in third place at 293. fol­lowed closely by Schafner and l.unkP al 294. 
S(\ n ior Ad am Anderson PnlPrnd Sundav's action in 17th place an1ong the 18 golfors who made the cut but rlosod with matching ?Os for a 295 total and a share of sixth place with Bivas. 
Others who competed in thr, full 72-hole event included: junior Chris Whitten, fresh­man Gavin Frrlic. juniors Jon Kosar<•s and Kevin Hicci, freshnwn Chris Thomason and William Mccaughan. sopho­morP Hory Cleary, junior Jonathan Volk. frl'shrnan Aaron Both and sophomorns Mich;wl !lastings and Jarrntt BingPmann. 
TRACK AND FIELD MEETING 
Anyone Interested In 
TRACK AND FIELD 
For The llpcoming Year 
Meeting at 4 p.m. September 6th Loftus Auditorium 
BE THERE! 
Northwestern coach· 
ic scholarships and has acadr­
mi c standards as tough as 
Northwestern's. 
In spite of that, Carmody took the Tigers to the postS(!a­son each year. Princeton madP tho NCAA tournan111nt afler going llndcfoated in Ivy League play his first two sea­sons. and advancrd to the sec­ond round in 1998. 
The Tigers wtml to the NIT 
the past two years. 
Carmody's host season was 1997-98. when the Tigers went 27-2 and wnre ranked as high as No. 8 during t.he regu­lar season. It was thr, highest ranking for an Ivy Loague team in nearly 30 years, and the 27 victorios set a school record. 
Bel'orc becoming head coach, Carmody spent 14 ytmrs as an assistant to llall of Fame coach Pete Carril. The Tigers were 251-12:i (.668) during that time, winning four straight Ivy League titles (1989-92) and seven overall. They also lost four first-round NCAA tournament games by a total of just 15 points using their patient passing game that often led to backdoor layups. 
The high point of' his tcnurn as an assistant came at the 1996 NCAA tournament. Carril had alrnady announced he would rr.tirc after the tour­nament and Carmody had been named his successor. 
racing defending national champion UCLA in thr first round, the Tigers upset the Bruins 43-41. 


Associated Press 

EVANSTON, Ill. 
Bill Carmody, who posted a 92-25 record in his four years as head coach at Princeton. will be introduced Wednnsday as Northwestern's new bas­ketball coach, The Associated Press has learned. 
lie will replace Kevin O'Neill, who resigned five days ago to take a job as an assis­tant with the New York Knicks, according to a source close to Carmody, who spoke on the condition he not be identified. 
Carmody was not available for comment Tuesday. Northwestern athletic director H..ick Taylor was out of his office, and a school spokesman would only sny that a news confcrenc:e has been scheduled for 4 p.m. Wednesday. 
"Our new men's basketball coach will be there," spokesman Kyle Coughlin said. 
Carmodv inherits a Northwestern program that has had just one winning sea­son in the last six years. The Wildcats were 5-25 last sea­son and didn't win a single Big Ten game. Four players left the program. 
But Carmody might be uniquely qualified for Northwestern's rebuilding effort. 
He spent the past 18 years as either the head coach or an
Alex Kent shot a 70 in the final round of the Campus 
assistant at Princ:eton. a
Championship to win the title by three strokes. 
school that doesn't give athlet-
Please Recycle The Observer 

Now... Two movies every weekend! 
amain feature and aspecial feature on two seperote screens 
Tnis weeKend's s~eciol features*: 
American Film lnstitute's Tap 3Comedies 
Tnursday 10:~ o ~ome liKe It ~ot fridoy 8&10:~ O Tootsie 

~aturdoy 8&10:~0  Dr. ~tran~elove  
~2 at 1oJ ~e~ortolo  
www.nO.eQu/•sub  e  

*(in ooaition to Mission im~ossiole 1at rn1 Deoortolo) 
Wednesday, September 6, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
Rienzo joins Notre Dame lacrosse staff 
Special to The Observer 
Matt llienzo, a slandout dr-fonsr-man at Gnorgetown l'rom 1994-97, has been named an assistant eoach on the 
NotrP namn men's lar:rosse 
staff. Hicn;,.o, who will work primarily with the Notre Dar:rn drfcnsem0n, rcplar,es Will DnHiso. who lrl't in May to 1•11tPr privatP businoss. 
Hicmzo comns to Notre Danw af'lu serving for one year a,; thn assistant. dPan of studPnts and head bovs' lar.rossP, coach at <;onzagn Collp,ge1 lligh Srhool in \Nashington. D.C., his alma matl'r. IIP guided Lhn Purplr liagl<'s to a 14-7 rncord in 2000 as Gon,i:aga advanced 
to tlw Washington Catholic Athlntic Conl'ernnrc (WCAC) finals. 
"We are very excited to add such an outstanding your coach to our staff," Notre Dame head coach Kevin Corrigan says. "Matt's experi­enr,es as a player and high sr.hool r,oar.h have prepared him well for Notre Dame and coaching at the collegiate level." 
A LhrcP,•year starter for the Iloyas. Hienzo was a t.ri-ca.p­tain at Georgetown during his final season in 1997. He led the squad to a 9-5 mark as the lloyas finished with a final ranking of seventh in the United States Intercollegiate Lacrosse poll and advanced to the NCAA tournament for the first time in school history. During his four-year career, Georgetown compilnd a 37-17 mark for a .685 winni.ng per­r.enta.ge. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Wolverines suspend Gaines 
As~ociatcd Press 
DETROIT 

Michigan sophomore point guard Kevin Gaines will no longer be a part of the basket­ball team, following "a serious violation of team polir.ies" over the Labor Day weekend. coach Brian Ellerbe said Tuesday. 
Ellerbe said in a news release that two incoming freshmen would also be disci­plined for an off-campus inci­dent "that I deemed a serious violation of team policies." He said he met with Michigan ath­letir. director Bill Martin, r,oaches and university offi­cials before coming to the decision. 
The incident took place early Monday in Taylor, about 30 miles from ihe Ann Arbor r,ampus. Thr> university dedined to elaborate on the circumstances. 
Polir.e reports say the three 

TIAA-CREF provides financial solutions to last alifetime. 


Building your assets is one thing. Figuring out With TIAA-CREF, how those assets can provide you with a you can receive:* comfortable retirement is quite another. • Cash withdrawals At TIAA-CREF, we can help you with both. You • Systematic or fixed-period payments** can count on us not only while you're saving and • Interest-only payments planning for retirement, but in retirement, too. • Lifetime income payments** • A combination of these ..Guaranteed by our cl.urns-paying abilily.Just call us. We'll show you how our flexible range of payout options can meet your retirement goals. ·-"cRE~J'~'ria~'ijl~i~ti~~:f>1i ,.With TIAA-CREF. you benefit from something few 0ther companies can offer: atotal commitment to •26.70% 27.87% 26.60% Iyour financial well-being, today and tomorrow. 1YEAR SYEARS AS OF 6/30/00 6/30/00 •Note: Availability may depend on your employer's retirement plan provisions contract. Under federal tax law, withdrawals pnor to age 59½ may be subject to restrictions, and may also be CREF Grow1h is one of many CREF variable annuities. subject to a 10% additional tax. Additional restrictions also apply to the TIAA Traditional Annuity.  
Ensuring the future for those who shape if"  1.800.842.2776  
www.tiaa-cref.org  
For more complete information on our securities products, please_ call 1.800 84,2 273 3, ext. 5509, to request pro:pectuses. R:ad them c~reful~ before ou invest. 1. Due to currc>nt market volatility. our secuntIes product. performance today may be_ less ,han shown obove. The 1~ves, ment r:sults shown for (REF Growth variable annuity reflem past performance and are not 1nd1cat1ve of ruture :ates of return. These r~1urns and the value of the principal you have invested will_ fluctuate, _so )he shares you O'Ml may be more or less th_an their ong'.nal ~nee upon r~emp­tion. , TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Ser,,ices, Inc. distributes the CREF and TIAA R~al Estate variable annu1t1es. Teache~s P.rsonal Investors Servic"s Inc distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual tunds and tutllOn savings agreements. TIAA and TIAA<REF life~ l~su~ance Co., New York:, NY, issue insurance and annuities. • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust serv,c:!s. , Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.© 2000 1IAA·CREF 08/03  

''I made the decision that as oftoday, Kevin Gaines is no longer a part ofthe University ofMichigan basketball team." 
Brian Ellerbe Michigan coach 

were arrested early Monday on suspicion of disorderly intoxication. Police said Tuesday that the three stopped their car on U.S. 24 and, despite traffic, started wrestling outside the car. 
"All three were behind the car and in the roadway; they were engaged in horseplay," Taylor police chief Thomas Bonner told the Detroit Free Press. "Several cars had to change la~.es to avoid hitting these guys. 
A breath test showed Gaines. the driver, had a .17 percent blood-alcohol level, police reports stated By Michigan law. anything .10 or higher is considered drunken driving. 
No one has been charged, and Bonner said he expected a decision on r,harges Wednesday. 
Ellerbe didn't wait. 
"I made the decision that as of today, Kevin Gaines is no longer a part of the University of Michigan basketball team." he said Tuesday. 
The 6-foot-4 Gaines was third on the Wolverines in scoring last season at 11.7 points per game and led the team in assists (133) and steals (34). Michigan finished 15-14 last season, losing to Notre Dame in the opening round of the NIT 
Incoming freshmen Bernard Robinson Jr. and Avery Queen were with Gaines at the time and were placed on probation which Ellerbe will direct. lie provided no other details. 
"I met with each one of these athletes to talk about the inci­dent and I have informed the students and their parents as well as the team of this deci­sion," Ellerbe said. "I want to assure everyone that we will give Kevin all the support he needs even though he will not be with the basketball pro­gram." 
Ellerbe said Gaines. 19, has been offered the chanr,e to remain a student and to retain his scholarship. 
The decision to remove Gaines from the team shouldn't be seen as harsh punishment. Ellerbe said. "This is a result of numerous violations of team rules," he said, but he declined to elabo­rate on what those violations were. 
'Tm more r,oncerned about Kevin Gaines the individual than Kevin Gaines the player," he said. "This is not a basket­ball issue." 


Exploring the Future of Business 
A seminar to celebrate the naming of the Mendoza College of Business . Speakers: Dr. Cheryl Shavers, Under Secretary of Commerce for Technology DanWarmenhoven, CEO, Network Appliance 
Friday, September 8, 2000 I:30 -3:30 p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
Faculty, Staff and Students Welcome 

;.::~.....:··--se:1cf:,.;-~t1: Dlm-..~ 
Mendoza College of Bminess 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 6, 2000 
VOLLEYBALL 
Irish volleyball steps into rankings with weekend win 

LIZ LANG/The Observer The Irish are looking to spike their opponents this weekend as they host the adidas Invitational. Top 25-ranked Nebraska, UCLA and Michigan State will all compete against Notre Dame. 
ment f1nld. UCL/\ and Michigan

Special to The Observer 
Statr. b11gin tlrn action at I :'.-lO 
p.m. Friday. bcforr. tlw IrishTho Notre Dame volleyball 

take on Nr.braska in "Thi•

team {3-0) sw<'pt through th<' 
Battl-n Beforr. thn War" (tlw

2000 Shamrock Invitational 
1\Jotrn Darnr. and Nebraska 

over lhe weekend and earned 
f'ootbal I team:-. wi II m11et on 

a spot in lhe US/\ Today//\VC./\ 
Saturday) at 4 p.m.

women's vollnyball poll for the first time sincn 1998. Thf' Irish arc rankt1d 22nd heading into the adidas Invitational this 
USA Today/AVCA 

W<'ekPnd. The highlight or tho 
Top 25 Poll 

Shamrock Invitational was a 
team points

comp-from-bPhind victory ovf'r 
1 Stanford 1,383

then-15th rankt!d BYU. The 
2 Long Beach Stale 1,351

lris}1 lost the l'irst two ganrns 
3 UCLA* 1,333(5-15, 10-1:il but rallif'd bark. 
4 Nebraska* 1,293Tlrny came b11ck bnhind t.hn 
5 Penn Stale 1,287play of' BIC EAST PlayPr of' th•~ 
6 Hawaii 1,272 Week and tournanwnt M\/1' 
7 Colorado State· 1,135 Dc•nisc Boylan. along with 
8 use· 1,126 S h ,tm rock ,1 11-to u r n a rn 11 n t 
g Pepperdine 1,039 t11am hononrns sC'nior Christi 
10 Minnesota 954 Cirton and ,iunior Kristy 
11 Pacific 894 Kn•hnr to dPf'cat the Cougars 
12 Florida 848 in tivn ganws. Notn~ Dame also 
13 UC Santa Barbara 741 scorrd vir.torins ovnr Fairfkld 
14 Arizona 708 
15 Wisconsin 556

and Cl(Hnson. both in thrnn 16 Michigan Slate* 436
ganrns. during th,• tournanrnnl. 
17 BYU* 433

The Irish last appeared in 
18 Texas A&M 411

the Top-2:i of · thc US/\ 
19 Baylor 371

Today/AVC/\ poll ranked I {1th 
20 Kansas State 325

in the preseason of 1998. Tlw 
21 Loyola Marymount* 302

ranking ocr.urs as the Irish 
22 Notre Dame 295

prPpare to play host to onn of 
23 Texas 260

the top 2000 volleyball tourna­
24 San Diego 192

mcnts in th<1 nation this weck­
25 Michigan* 127

cnd. Third-rankr.d UCLA (3-11, No. 4 Nebraska (3-01 and No. 
other teams receiuing 

H, Michigan State (3-01 will 
11otes: Northern Iowa, Ohio join Notre Damfl to makc up 
State, North Carolina* 

the adidas Invitational tourna­
•-indicates 2000 opponents 

IGot Sports? Call 1-4543.1 

Buy /Sell/Trade 
Nebraska Wanted 
Preferred Tickets 
234-5650 
~J~u: ~fl_[)) §~..rou:s \ ~t~il~e ll·U~1l'1tlhl1 ~:1~ 
Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 

Actors from the Wndon Stage As You Like It 
by William Shakespeare 
Thursday, September 14 ............. 7:30 pm 
Friday, September 15 ................... 7:30 pm 
Saturday, September 16 ............. 7:30 pm 
Playing at Washington Hall Reserved Seats $1 6 • Seniors $14 • All Students $1 2 Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 

AGll-·ss.i:.:<: fwm l'l LLARS with Al~Jh'i,I & Drug Edu.:,lli,111 ·-} I I l;a h,rtunl' Sru,lc-nr l'l·nr,·r
1'1 ;.a .• 'k ll IL,. 'l
ii~......
~ lQnu1.. :;; t, · (;)~1P-JAH'le'8,co.•1.t). L'nin:~it\' ,1f ;,,.;.,trl· Danw 
:....-~, (219)6H-i970

whic . proximately I
http://www.nd.l·du/-aldru',!)

10 oz 5% beer = 4 0£ o wine • 1oz 100 proof liquor 
Wednesday, September 6, 2000 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Football 
continued from page 24 
Conncllsvill<1. Pa .. native. He rPjer.tod an offpr to attend the 
U.S. Military Academy in West Point so Im r,oulrl chase down th<' seomingly impossible dream of suiting up for the blue and gold. 
"Notre Jlame was a magical word f'nr mn." Lujack said. "I had an opportunity to go to W<'st Point and many other schools, and I nPvn rwor consirlered anv other possibility other than Notre Dame. but I wasn't sure that Notr<' Dami? wanted me. Then when Coach LPahy offered me the scholarship. I just jumped at it because that was the culmination of drr.ams of a young kid." 
Earning his chance 
Even after making his way to South Rend on scholarship, the 17-year-old kid had a long way to go before bRcoming an All­J\mcrir.an or even making the dress list for game day. Early in his freshman vear. howeve>r. luck found Lu,im~k. 
"Whcrn l first got the notice at Notre Damf' · was playing defense." Lujack said. "As a frPsbman. thoy ral!P.d for a defensive tf'am down to play against tllf' varsity. and I hap­pened to be one or the ones they pointP.d out haphazardly. bt'.rnusn thPy didn't Pven know my nanw. So I madr, a fRw tack­Ins against the varsity. and the 1rnxt dav, thr.y asked mv name to raise my hand and get down and scrimmage against the varsity. So that's how I really got my start there." 
Lm1hy also used Lujack ~o take on thP varsity in scrimmages on offonse. either as a quarterback or tailback. 
By Lujack's sophomore year, he'd garnPred enough attenti.on from the coaching staff to serve a~ the back-up quarterback to Angdo Bertelli, who won the Heisman Trophy that year and led the Irish to the 1943 National Championship. Lujack subbed in for Bertelli. as well as All-American running back Creighton Miller, both of whom are in the College Football Hall or Fame. Lujack got his next big break, to become the starting quarterback. when Bertelli left to fight in World War II. 
One of his best-known feats that year came through anothi>r piece of good fortune. 
"We played against the Iowa Scahawks, and I went up against an All-Pro end," Lujack said. "I went up to knock the pass down one-handed, and the ball actual­ly stuck in my hand. so it wa.5 a one-handed interception, and it was written up as a great inter­ception. But 1 wpnt up to knock it down and it just stur.k." 
Lujack Aarned renown as one of the few Notre Dame students ever to letter in four sports ­football. basketball. baseball and track. 
"Tho reason I was able to play all four sports is I was in the ser­vice, so I didn't have to go out for spring practice." Lujack said. "My first baseball game I got two singles and a triple out of four times up. In between the innings. I won the high _jump and javelin in track. so my roo.rnmate. being a very comical guy. said. 'If you get dressed real quick. I know where there's a swimming meet."' 
Swimming never went down in the record books as another var­sity letter for Lujack, but the Davenport, lowa resident did enough during his four years at Notre Dame to remain one of the most-recognized names of Irish football players even today. 

Are you thinking 

Tri-captain Stephen Maio clears the ball in a game last year. Maio leads the Irish against the 
21st-ranked Bradley Braves today at Alumni Field. ­
Soccer 
continued from page 24 
of the tournament in Las 
Vegas. 
Tait feels the momentum 
from Las Vegas will carry 
over into today's game. 
"We're really trying to con­
centrate on our game right 
now." said Tait, "We know 
that if we come out there 
focused, motivated and ready 
to play that we can give 
Bradley a really good game 
and hopefully get the results 
we want." 
Winning today's game 
about 

becoming Catholic? 
We all learn from one another. The RCIA gives you a chance to walk with someone as you explore your faith and find your place in the Church. Join us on this adventure of faith. 
(ZV0PU5 
-
MNISTRY 
For more info, contact: 
Tami Schmitz 
@ 
631-3016 Badin Hall 

Find out more about: 
•The Sacraments of Initiation 
BAPTISM, EUCHARIST &CONFIRMATION: 
for unbaptized persons wanting to become a member of the Catholic Church. 
•Fuu COMMUNION: 
for baptized persons wanting Full Communion in the Catholic tradition. 
INFO. Sunday, Sepiember 10th SESSION LaFortune's Notre Dame Room 1:00 -2:00pm 
could bode well for tho Irish in the long run. as at-large bids for the NCAA tourna­ment take into account a team's record against region­al opponents. 
"They're in our region, so it's very important that we win, because when it comes down to getting an at large bid for the NCAA tourna­ment, it comes down to how well you've done against opponents in your region," said senior Griffin Howard. 
The Irish, playing without last year's leading scorer as sophomore Erich Braun is injured. are concentrating on improving their offensive game. Behind a strong group 
of freshmen, they have been able to put the ball in the net during the preseason and in last Friday's 2-0 win over New Mexico, but were shut out versus UNLV. Senior tri­captain Dustin Pridmore feels that the offense will return today. 
"We feel really well coming into Bradley," said Pridmore, "I think our team is doing really well. Each game we keep •getting better and bet­ter. As a team. we should continue to get better, and hopefully, we can put some more goals in the back of the net. Overall we're playing really solid and we have a lot of confidence." 

Please Recycle The Observer 


page 22 The Obierver . SPORTS Wednesday, September 6, 2000 

~IIIANl·IIN191 11111'1 981A · ''IIIINTlt\11" 
Informational Meeting: 
WHO can apply?

Thursday., September 7 
Students applying to partici­

7pm CSC 
pate in the Santiago, Chi! program 

What is !lades? 
£he !lades Seminar enables students studying abroad in Chile to examine issues of poverty, development, social justice, liberation theology, and the global economy from a variety of different disciplines and perspectives. 

Saint Mary's hopes to improve intramurals 
By KATIE McVOY 
Assis1,1nc Spom E.Jiwr 
Last year's Midnight Madness kicked off the idea bllt this week the fall intra~ mum! season kir.kr,d off for real. For tlrn first timr, in Saint Mary's historv. athletic staff and stud1rnls arc working logellwr to make the intra­mural program a success. 
"The numbnrs have cloubled since last year," athletic din~ctor Lynn Kachmarik said. "But is thal good enough? 
No." 
"In prnrs past. a junior would start an intramural program, but then she would graduate and it would die out," assistant athlelic direc­tor GrPtchen Hildebrandt said. "Now with Midnight Madness. thcrf\ is a n~ward for intramu­rnls, a r<'ason to keep it ~oing." 
"We've never had a director of' inlramllral and clllb sports bnfore." Kachmarik said. 
Now they do. With the arrival of' Sports Information Director Suzanne Smith llildebrandt has taken on th~ new role of director of intra­mural and club sports. Along with studAnt director Janelle Miller, Hildebrandt is working to make intramurals a real success. 
Many colleges and universi­ties use thP.ir intramural pro­grams as a source of dorm unity, sorority llnity or class unity. Saint Mary's was miss­ing that bond, according to Kachmarik. 
"Previously, there was no tie to anything." Kachmarik said. "Now we;re talking about where we want to go and we're going to associate [intramural sports! with resi­dence halls." 
This year's intramural pro­.l{ram will be a collaboration between the athletic depart­ment. Residence Life and Student Activities. Kachmarik and Hildebrandt met with res­
ident advisors and hall direc­
tors in search of support. 
"We're taking it back to where the students live," Kachmarik said. 
This fall. teams for nag foot­ball. tennis doubles and sand volleyball registered accord­ing to nisidence halls. Winter sports teams for five-on-five basketball. indoor soccer and four-on-four volleyball also will register through the resi­dence halls. Kachmarik hopes registering through the halls will bring hall pride to the wornrm playing on the teams and the halls they represent. 
"It's important the women see the community supporting them." Kachmarik said. 
Midnight Madness will again be the culmination of the intramural season. 
This year's Midnight Madness. which will be held on March 28, will include the championship tournaments for winter sports and provide competition against classes. 
However, the All Sport Intramural Champ won't be announced until the results are in from spring intramu­rals. The residence hall with the most overall wins will be named All Sport Intramural Champ and the cup that goes with that title will be deliv­ered to the hall. 
In addition to student par­ticipation, Hildebrandt and Kachmarik are looking to get faculty and staff' involved in intramurals. 
''I'd love to see a team from LeMans take on the English Department," Kachmarik said. 
Teams may be composed of' faculty and staff members with a hall affiliation. or the team may participate without an affiliation and not compete for All Sports Champ. 
Off campus students are encouraged to participate as a member of the hall they lived in previously or the hall where they have friends liv­ing. 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Warner, Lindsey earn league titles 
II.ADES 
Instituto Latinoamericano de Doctrina y Estudios Sodales 
three-year starting goalkeep­er, Lindsey_ has logged 73 career games (71 of them starts) and has helped Notre Dame post a 116-6 shot edge through three games in the 2000 season. 
The speedy Warner is the first Notre Dame freshman to record a hat trick since Makinen in the 1997 Big East title win over Connnecticut f6-1). Warner recorded the earliest date (Sept. 3) ever for a hat trick by a Notre Dame freshman. 

Special to The Observer 

Two Notre Dame women's soccer players have been honored by the Big East Conference, with fresh man forward Amy Warner earning rookie of the week honors while senior defender Kelly Lindsey has been named the Big East defensive player of the week. 
Warner erupted for a hat trick in Sunday's 5-1 win over Providence, using her speed to get through the 
penalty box area to score Notre Dame's first two goals before completing the hat 
trick for  a  4-1  lead.  on  a  
half-volley off a  cross  from  
Anne Makinen.  

Lindsey continues to lead the Notre Dame defense from her central fullback position, with the Irish last week allowing just two shots from both Tulsa (which fell to ND 2-0) and Providence. The vet~ eran member of an Irish defense that is replacing two graduated starters and a 
631-3357 

WeJne5day, September 6, 2000 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TYLER

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY THINGS COULD BE WORSE 
WHATELY 
DINING HALL CARD 


MEN'S 


To ley 
* First 200 s ive a free t-shirt! 
SOCCER 

Fox TROT  
MISS o'MALLEY SHE SAID SAYS THIS IS IT WAS ll-1E PRo!ECToR PRETiY rou AND I SIMPLE WILL BE IN TooPEAATE. CHARGE oF RUNNING. \  JUST YouR BASIC lCoMPJ.  YlJP, '!'Ufl  

No FANcY LENSES... No FANcY ELECTR0N1CS... No FANC''I' AUDIO OUTPUT JACKS... No GIZMOS llil\T 
A NOVICE MIGHT FIND 
FRIGHTENINGLY CoMPLEX. 
~ 
(' 
BILL AMEND 
So, Do You WANT NoT To DR1LL 1HR006H YET, 11-IE BACK oR THE 
ANY'WAY. FRoNT? 
\ 

Which of the following is an acceptable means of transportation to and from class? Answer: None of the above 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
se "Life is a banquef' lady 57 Sean Connery, for one 59 Early art form? 61 Means of getting in touch 
64 First of a traveling threesome 
ss Payoff 66 Park, for one 67 Punkie ss A, as in Assisi 69 Poster heading 70 Dry as dust 71 Pique 
DOWN 
1 Rio Grande city 
2 Thoroughly humiliate a Decline an 
invitation 4 Inflatable item, 
maybe s Expect & Lost it 
1 Made lustrous 21 Illegal lottery game

s Insurance card info 30 Three, e.g. s Rejection after 34 Forever, rejection? seemingly 10 corner 37 The way to a (church area) person's heart? 11 Jazzman's lingo 38 Male sex 12 See 62-Down hormone 13 Hand-held 39 N.B.A. player, camera support for sllort 21 Popular pen 41 Scale 22 _.Tower 42 Dupe 26 One of the 44 Manatee Pointer Sisters cousins 

48 Under control 58 Oxygen_ 
50 Gives one his eo Size up due? 
e2 With 12-Down, 51 Gold medalist's 
buttercupclaim relatives 52 lronfisted one 
63 Like some 55 Navigational aid days 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Tammy Wynette, Lori Singer, Tina Yothers, Alice Faye, Tyrone Power 
Happy Birthday: You can acquire the most if you stick to conservative projects. You will gain respect from those who view you as being on solid ground. Take your time and make sure that you haven't overlooked any­thing that may result in altering your goals. 'You will do best if you remain in control of your own situation and the operations you are involved in. Your numbers: 5, 17, 22, 29, 31, 42 
ARIES (March 21-ApriI 19): Pay attention to those extra details that give your work that slight edge. You've been going through an extremely innovative period. Don't think that your efforts have gone unnoticed. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will pick up new methods or teclmol­ogy readily. Let your curiosity lead you down new avenues. You can change your career direction if you want to. 00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Emo­tional problems will affect your atti­tude at work. You'll confuse col­leagues if you're negative for no apparent reason. Let them know what's happening in your personal life. They will offer help. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Romance will come looking for you. Be receptive to the advances made by others. Friends or relatives may want to set you up with someone that they think is just perfect for you. Try to be amiable. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can 
make money if you set your mind to 
it. Advancement or changes of posi­
tion can be yours for the asking. 
Birthday Baby: You are tuned into the thoughts of others. For this very rea­son you will find yourself following unusual pathways throughout life. You are capable of reaching your ultimate goals if you can only manage to keep your emotional life in perspective along the way. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugeniaiaslcom, astromate.com.) 
EUGENIA LAST 
Superiors will be impressed by your energetic, ambitious attitude. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Overindulgence will be a problem. Take a look at all sides of an issue before you make a decision. Escapist tendencies will not help you figure out what you should do. Ask for help if you' re confused. 00000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Don't let relatives interfere in your personal life. Sit down with your partner and figure out what you both have to do in order to make things better. Inter­ference from others will only create havoc.00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Limi­tations due to children will be worri­some and tiring. Do the best you can, but don't feel guilty if they don't respond. You can't buy their love or do their work for them. 0000 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You won't be getting the whole truth. It is best to do a little investigating of your own if you want to get to the bottom of things. Try to keep an objective point of view. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
You will be tempted to take a risk 
that isn't likely to do as well as you 
hope. Put your cash in a safe place. 
This is not the time to be frivolous or 
impractical. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You 
can expect jobs that you requisitioned 
to cost you more than originally 
planned. Don't get work done if you 
don't have a written estimate. Learn 
from past experiences. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your 
lover will be urset if you keep 
putting things of or changing your 
mind. Your lack of responsibility and 
attention has been a major problem in 
your relationship until now. 00000 

CROSSWORD ACROSS 
, Shogun's capital 4 Maid's supply a Stuck 
14 _-eared 15 M.P.'s quarry 16 "Blue Monday" 
singer 11 Way to stand 16 Fortune 19 Mickey Mantle, 
for the Yankees 20 More than once 23 "Little 
(early comic strip) 24 Music category 25 Deli request 28 Whirligig 29 Scheduled 31 list 
32 "Wheel of Fortune" purchase 
33 Public radio's Glass 35 Boring one 36 Called the shots 37 Can't be pinned down 40 Over-the­counter buys 42 100 yrs. 43 It may swing 45 "You've got mail"co. 46 Additionally 47 Cause of yawning 49 Fatty compound 53 Smear 
54 You'll need six of them to finish this puzzle 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 



Quick win 
Martina llingis defeated Monica Seles in just 62 minutes to reach the semifinals at the U.S. Open. 
page 15

PORTS 
O
THE page 24 BSERVER Wednesday, September 6, 2000 
FOOTBALL 

Irish football great led Notre Da01e past Nebraska in '47 

By NOAH AMSTADTER Sporrs Writer 
The football team isn't the only squad on campus looking to upset a ranked opponent this wenk. 
When the Nolrn Dame mnn·s soccer team opens its home season tonight at Alumni Field, they _will be taking on a Bradlr.y team ranked 21st in the National Soccer Coaches Association of Anrnrica/adidas Top 25 poll. rr.leased Tuesday. 
The Braves are 2-0 this sea­son after claiming the lloliday Inn City Centre Classic cham­pionship last weekend in Peoria, Ill Bradley opened 
the Classic with an exciting 3­2 victory over Western Illinois. In the 90th minute of that game, two-time All­American forward Gavin Clinton scored his second goal to give the Braves the win. 
Sunday's championship match saw the Braves crush the Huskies of Northern !Jlinois 5-0. Bradley was led by two goals by Bryan Namoff and four saves by senior goal­keeper Adam Gross. Gross holds the school record with 12 shutouls. 
The Irish know that the game will be challenging, but come into the game confident after a strong 1-0-1 showing at the UNLV Fila/Snickers 

Rebel Classic last weekend. After shutting out opponents in both games. the Irish feel confident coming into the home opener. 
"They're a very good team. They've opened up with a few wins to start their season," said assistant coach Mike Avery. "They're kind of an up and coming team in our region. We're excited about our home opener." 
The defense should be very strong for the Irish behind sophomore goalkeeper Grng Tait -the Big East goal­tender of the week last week 
and classmate Andy Forster. the defensive player 
see SOCCER/page 21 
thrno years latnr, it was back to By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN business as usual for Llw 6-l'oot­
Associate Spom Editor 

O quart11rback. In 194(), Lujack became the The football played in tho ern starting quarterback and beganof Johnny Lujack, Notre Dame's 
the Irish on a 8-0-1 campaign1947 HeLsman-winning quartnr­
that would bo their first ol' thrn1~ back. would be all but unrnr.og-National Championships in a 
niz able to many of today's college  "It wasn't at the time  four-year pr.rind. The only blcmish  
stars. Passes were few and far  important, because Nebraska wasn't as  on Notre Dame's rr.cord was a  
between, advertising contracts with adidas and the like didn't exist. weight programs were  well-known then as they are now. They didn't have the really good teams that they have now."  0-0 tie with top-ranked A r m y . Lujack kept that ganw from turning into a loss  
a  thing or the  with  his  
future, athletes commonly played both sides of the ball  Johnny Lujack 1947 Heisman-winning quarterback  open-field tackle of' Cadets fult­ 

and Notre 
Dame did not 
participate in bowl games. 

Although Notre Oame already had a storied tradition as a top football school, its reputation r.ame strictly from regular-sea­son play. Many of the other top modern-day programs; such as Nebraska. were as yet unknowns. The last time Notre Dame played a regular season series with Nebraska. in 1947­48, the Cornhuskers were not the title-laden team that they now are. 
"It wasn't at the time impor­tant, because Nebraska wasn't as well-known then as they are now," Lujack said. "They didn't have the really good teams that they have now." 
Lujack engineered a 31-0 shutout victory over Nebraska in ·47 and a 27-7 win over arch­nemesis Army, as Notre Dame fought its way to a 9-0 season, immortalizing the team in col­lege football lore. 
Famed sportswriter Grantland Rice called the '47 Irish the best tp,am ever, saying, "There no longer is any doubt as to the best team in college football, it happens to be Notrn Dame. College football never before has known a team so big, so fast and so expericnr.ed." 
Lujack completed 61 of 109 passes that season for 777 yards while also playing defen­sive back. Those statistics seem less impressive by today's pass­crazy standards. but won him the Heisman in '47. 
Another big diffcrnnce in foot­ball or the '40s was that most players took several years off from college to serve in World War II. Along with most other athletes of his time. Lujack took time out of his college career to serve in World War II. When he returned to Notrn Oame nnarly bar.k Doc 
Blanchard. 
"That was 
supposed to be a highlight," 
Lujack said, "although I didn't 
think mur.h of' it at tho timo 
because that's what you're back 
therP f'or -to tackle." 
For Lujack. what gave Notre Dame the edge in the late '40s was their unity and focus on the team, elements he br.lieves are tacking in today's game. 
"I think it was the cama­raderie that made us a good team," Lujack said. "Wn had meshed logethor very well because no one ever was after any individual awards. We were all for the learn and winning was the most important thing." 
Late Bloomer 
One of the greatest football players ever to take the field for Notre Dame. 1947 lleisman­winning quarterback Johnny Lujar.k, would never have been offered a scholarship today. 
"I was not that torrilic a high school player," Lujack said. "They asked me where I mado All-State. and I said I never made AII-Stalo in Pennsylvania. For that reason, I don't know why [r.oachl Frank Leahy ever gave me a scholarship, but h(i did, and I've been indebted to him ever since." 
Compared to his competition at the quarterbar.k position early in his Notre Oame career. Lujack failed to measure up on accolades. 
"My freshman year, lhnrc were four quarterbacks that were All-Slate and one that was All-New England," Lujack said. "I made All-County, and they found out lat<1r that we wero tho only high school in the county." 
Playing for Notrr. Dame was a lifn-long fantasy for tho 
see FOOTBALL/page 21 

SPORTS ATA GLANCE  -~  vs. Bradley Today, 7 p.m. Volleyball at Bethel Today, 7:30 p.m.  w ;k.  vs. Sanra Clara Friday, 7:30 p.m. Volleyball vs. Nebraska Friday, 4 p.m.  .,, .,,~  Cross Country ar Valparaiso Inv. Sarurday, 10 a.m. vs. Nebraska Saturday, I:30 p.m.  
- 
•  





